--- PAGE 1 ---
Everything a player needs to create roleplaying characters
for the world’s greatest fantasy setting.
TM

--- PAGE 2 ---
Creative Direction by Dominic McDowall and Jon Hodgson
 
Designed and Written by James Brown, Paul Butler, Walt Ciechanowksi, Steve Emmott, 
Gareth Ryder-Hanrahan, Jon Hodgson, Shane Ivey, Andrew Kenrick, TS Luikart, 
Dominic McDowall, Francesco Nepitello, James Spahn, Ken Spencer
 
Cover Art by John Howe
Illustrated by John Howe, Jon Hodgson, Jason Juta, Naomi Robinson, Sam Manley, 
Jan Pospisil, Andrew Hepworth, Tomas Jedrusek
 
Maps by Paul Bourne
Edited by Jon Hodgson, Andrew Kenrick, Dominic McDowall, Francesco Nepitello
 
Graphic Design and Layout by Paul Bourne 
Proof Readers: David Rea and Jacob Rodgers
Special thanks to Francesco Nepitello and Marco Maggi for The One Ring, Robert Hyde, 
Mike Mearls, Gareth Ryder-Hanrahan, James Brown
Playtesters: 
US: Brian Eads, Amanda Chasteen, Kirklin Davis, Jeremy Hedge, Jerry Jerrell, Samantha Parish, 
Kyle Hopkins, Elizabeth Sievers, Alex Seagroatt, Ken Spencer 
UK: Nigel Cooney, Steve Emmott, Jonny Gill, Matt Jenkins, Nick Middleton, Scott Waites
Based on The One Ring Roleplaying Game by Francesco Nepitello and Marco Maggi
© Sophisticated Games Ltd 2016  © Cubicle 7 Entertainment Ltd 2016 
www.cubicle7.co.uk
ISBN: 978-0-85744-303-8
SKU: CB72300
Product Identity: The following items are hereby identified as Product Identity, as defined in the Open Game License version 1.0a, Section 1(e), and are not Open Content: 
All trademarks, registered trade-marks, proper names (characters, place names, etc.), new rules, classes, items, virtues, backgrounds, places, characters, artwork, 
sidebars, and trade dress. Open Game Content: The Open content in this book includes material taken from the Systems Reference Document. No other portion of this 
work may be reproduced in any form without permission.
Published by Sophisticated Games Ltd, 3 Andersen Court, Newnham Road, Cambridge CB3 9EZ, UK and 
Cubicle 7 Entertainment Ltd,  Suite D3, Unit 4, Gemini House, Hargreaves Road, Groundwell Industrial Estate, 
Swindon, SN25 5AZ, UK
 
 
The One Ring, Middle-earth, The Hobbit, The Lord of the Rings, and the characters, items, events and places therein are trademarks or registered trademarks of The 
Saul Zaentz Company d/b/a Middle-earth Enterprises and are used under license by Sophisticated Games Ltd and their respective licensees. All rights reserved. No 
part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording 
or otherwise, without the prior permission of the publishers. 
- credits -

--- PAGE 4 ---
Wilderland 10
Chapter One describes the area of Middle-
earth where your first adventure will 
begin. Wilderland in 2946 of the Third 
Age is a time of new beginnings, as the 
free peoples rebuild after the death of the 
dragon Smaug, and hope is rekindled.  Yet 
Mirkwood, the Heart of the Wild, remains 
a place of darkness and mortal danger, 
and who can say what the future holds?
Setting	
10
Far Over The Misty Mountains Old	
10
Lands Beyond	
10
Year 2946 of the Third Age	
11
The Free Folks of the North	
12
	
Bardings	
12
	
Beornings	
13
	
Dwarves of the Lonely Mountain	
14
	
Elves of Mirkwood	
14
	
Men of the Lake	
15
	
Woodmen of Wilderland	
16
The Free Folks of Eriador	
18
	
Hobbits of the Shire	
18
	
Men of Bree	
18
	
Dúnedain	
19
The Free Folks of the South	
19
	
The Riders of Rohan	
20
	
The Men of Gondor	
20
The Shadow	
21
Overview 24
Chapter Two provides an overview of 
Adventures in Middle-earth, detailing the 
scope of the rules and what you can expect 
from them.  There are some key differences 
in approach to the standard 5th Edition 
rules, and they are outlined here.
Rules for Creating Characters	
24
Cultures	
25
Classes	
25
Backgrounds	
25
Virtues	
26
Game Rules	
26
Journeys	
26
Corruption	
26
Audiences	
27
Fellowship Phase	
27
Cultures 30
Chapter Three covers the playable cultures 
that feature in Adventures in Middle-earth. 
Each has its own particular strengths and 
weaknesses, offering a broad range of play 
options, firmly rooted in Middle-earth 
and facilitating Middle-earth play.
Bardings	
32
Beornings	
34
Dúnedain	
36
Dwarves of the Lonely Mountain	
38
Elves of Mirkwood	
42
Hobbits of the Shire	
45
Men of Bree	
48
Men of the Lake	
50
Men of Minas Tirith	
52
Riders of Rohan	
54
Woodmen of Wilderland	
57
Classes 62
Chapter Four details six entirely new 
classes, unique to Middle-earth and 
specifically designed to emulate the 
source material.
Scholar	
63
	
Scholar Specialities	
67
	
Master Healer	
67
	
Master Scholar	
68
Slayer	
71
	
Slayer Paths	
74
	
The Rider	
74
	
Foe-Hammer	
75
Treasure Hunter	
76
	
Treasure Hunter Archetypes	
79
	
Agent	
79
	
Burglar	
80
Wanderer	
81
	
Wanderer Archetypes	
84
	
Hunter of Beasts	
84
	
Hunter of Shadows	
85
Warden	
86
	
Warden Expressions	
88
	
Counsellor	
88
	
Herald	
90
	
Bounder	
90
Warrior	
91
	
Warrior Archetypes	
93
	
Knight	
93
 	
Weaponmaster	
95
Virtues 100
Chapter Five describes new Middle-earth 
themed virtues to further expand and 
define your characters.
Open Virtues	
100
Barding Cultural Virtues	
101
Beorning Cultural Virtues	
102
Dúnedain Cultural Virtues	
103
Dwarves of The Lonely Mountain 
Cultural Virtues	
105
Elves of Mirkwood Cultural Virtues	
107
Hobbits of the Shire Cultural Virtues	 108
Men of Bree Cultural Virtues	
109
Men of the Lake Cultural Virtues	
110
Men of Minas Tirith Cultural Virtues	 112
Riders of Rohan Cultural Virtues	
114
Woodmen of Wilderland 
Cultural Virtues	
115
4
- contents -

--- PAGE 5 ---
Backgrounds 120
Chapter Six offers unique backgrounds 
native to Middle-earth, grounding your 
characters firmly in the setting and giving 
you numerous hooks for adventure.
Loyal Servant	
121
Doomed to Die	
122
Driven from Home	
124
Emissary of your People	
126
Fallen Scion	
127
The Harrowed	
129
Hunted by the Shadow	
131
Lure of the Road	
133
The Magician	
135
Oathsworn	
136
Reluctant Adventurer	
138
Seeker of the Lost	
140
World Weary	
141
 
Equipment 146
Chapter Seven details equipment, money, 
standards of living, weapons and armour 
appropriate to Middle-earth, in order 
to ensure your games match the world 
described in the books of JRR Tolkien.
Silver & Gold	
146
Barter, Trade & Gift	
146
Standards of Living	
147
Weapons and Armour	
149
Dwarf-Forged Weapons and Armour	 152
Equipment	
153
	
Dalish Fireworks	
154
	
Dwarven Toys	
154
	
Travelling Gear	
154
 	
Herbs, Potions and Salves	
154
	
Tools	
156
Cultural Heirlooms	
156
	
Bardings	
156
	
Beornings	
157
	
Dúnedain	
157
	
Dwarves of the Lonely Mountain	 158
	
Elves of Mirkwood	
159
	
Hobbits of the Shire	
159
	
Men of Bree	
160
	
Men of the Lake	
160
	
Men of Minas Tirith	
160
	
Riders of Rohan	
161
	
Woodmen of Wilderland	
161
 
Journeys 164
Chapter Eight lays out new rules for 
Journeys.  Travel is a key component of 
evocative gaming in Wilderland, and this 
is reflected in the expanded travel rules 
that bring unique new systems to the 
game. Using the maps and rules provided, 
players and their Loremaster can plot their 
characters’ epic journeys through Middle-
earth. Travelling through Wilderland 
becomes a characterful, engaging and 
dangerous part of your adventure.
Step One: Embarkation	
165
	
Determining the Peril Rating 
	
of a Journey	
165
Step Two: Journey Events and 
	
Task Rolls	
168
Step Three: The Arrival Phase	
174
The Shadow 180
Chapter Nine covers rules for Corruption 
– another core component of the Middle-
earth setting, and a unique addition to the 
5th Edition rules set. Corruption replaces 
the alignment system, and tracks your 
character’s susceptibility to the lure of the 
Shadow.
Sources of Corruption	
180
	
Anguish	
181
	
Blighted Places	
181
	
Misdeeds	
182
	
Tainted Treasure	
183
Consequences of Corruption	
183
	
Bouts of Madness	
183
	
Degeneration	
184
Shadow Weakness Descriptions	
185
Succumbing to the Shadow	
188
Audiences 192
Chapter Ten introduces a set of rules that 
govern Audiences – a new rules structure 
that enables your characters to meet 
and interact with the great and good of 
Middle-earth.  Will the Elf-King Thranduil 
welcome you into his halls, offering 
hospitality and aid, or will you have to 
wait on the dock in his subterranean 
palace as unwelcome visitors?
Cultural Attitudes	
192
Seeking an Audience	
194
Reactions	
195
 
The Fellowship Phase 198
Chapter Eleven features the Fellowship 
phase, another new evocative addition to 
the 5th Edition rules. Fellowship phases 
give characters a chance to rest between 
adventuring seasons, return home, write 
a book of their adventures or help the 
Free Folk reopen the Dwarf road through 
Mirkwood.
How a Fellowship Phase Works	
198
	
The Passing of Years	
198
	
Structure & Location	
198
Rest and Recovery	
199
Undertakings	
199
Pre-generated Characters	
203
Blank Character Sheets	
216
Index	
218
Rules Summaries	
223
5

--- PAGE 6 ---
L
ike many gamers, Middle-earth has been a cherished part of my life for almost as long as I can 
remember. It is a pivotal part of our shared heritage, and has significantly influenced the development 
of the games we love. Bringing the greatest fantasy setting to the most popular roleplaying game has 
been a project of huge excitement to our entire team, and an enormous privilege.
When we started planning our approach, we realised that this game should be about your adventures in 
Middle-earth. Everyone has their own interpretation of this incredibly rich world, and that’s something 
that should be celebrated! We needed to take a ‘Yes, and’ approach – giving you the core Middle-earth 
experience derived directly from the source, as well as empowering you to customise your game to meet 
your vision.
Fortunately, the Open Gaming License gives us the perfect way to make this approach work. We provide 
the Middle-earth components, and you can add additional elements from across a huge selection of 
already-existing resources. If your take on Middle-earth includes a spell-slinging wizard’s apprentice, 
no problem – add in a magic-using class from the core OGL products. If you look hard enough, I’m sure 
there’s even a feat for shield-surfing somewhere!
 
 
Foreword

--- PAGE 7 ---
As with all quests involving a dragon, this project has involved a great bunch of talented people who I’d 
like to call out for special thanks. Francesco Nepitello and Marco Maggi, our steadfast companions and 
designers of our first foray into creating Middle-earth games, The One Ring Roleplaying game. Gar, Ken, 
Paul, TS, Walt and the rest of the Cubicle 7 team for all their great work and support on this fantastic 
project, and especially Jon Hodgson, our awesome Creative Director who revealed a passion for writing 
Anglo-Saxon poetry from the Dwarf point of view. Thanks to you all!
 
So find a good stout stick, pack your second breakfast and get ready to begin the journey. Good luck in 
your adventures, and remember:
“It’s a dangerous business, Frodo, going out of your door,” he used to say. “You step into the Road, and if 
you don’t keep your feet, there is no knowing where you might be swept off to. Do you realize that this is 
the very path that goes through Mirkwood, and that if you let it, it might take you to the Lonely Mountain 
or even further and to worse places?”
Dominic McDowall
CEO, Cubicle 7 Entertainment

--- PAGE 8 ---
Friend, I wish I could persuade you to come here and see for yourself 
that what we accomplished together was not wasted in idleness. 
We have done much good since the slaying of the Dragon and the 
liberation of the Lonely Mountain. The splendour of our works far 
surpasses Thorin’s grandest dreams of what we would accomplish, 
back when we were planning our little adventure.
To think that almost five years have passed! You might say that 
we didn’t think much of you at the time. Now I miss very much our 
days together, and I would readily forfeit my peaceful life for one 
of dangerous adventure. Quite astonishing, I know, but I feel that 
sleeping under the stars with a sword at my side would ease my 
troubled mind.
I do not know precisely what troubles me, but disquiet weighs heavily 
upon my heart. The scourge of Smaug has been vanquished, the 
Necromancer has been driven out of his forest stronghold and, after 
the Battle of the Five Armies, the Goblins are afraid to leave their 
mountain holds. We have every reason to look forward to a new age of 
prosperity!
But something is wrong. I am not the only one to perceive it. A 
shadow, felt but unseen. The presence of a nameless threat that 
forbids people to rejoice fully in the hope and confidence that should 
follow the return of the light.
Nonsense? Possibly. I am an old Dwarf after all, and those who 
hearken to me are but a few. For every voice that dares to whisper 
words of warning, far too many answer that our recent victories have 
earned us a respite. Despite my nagging sense of unease, complacency 
is rife.
Dearest Bilbo, deep inside of me I feel that we should remain vigilant 
and warn others against the risks of self-congratulation. Everyone 
around us seems to look inwards instead, to their own concerns and 
the goings-on right in front of their noses. Soon I will confer with 
Gandalf upon these matters, and possibly come to visit you in the 
kindly West.
A letter from Balin, son of Fundin, to Bilbo Baggins,  Esq.
Wilderland

--- PAGE 10 ---
Adventures in Middle-earth
10
- wilderland -
Home is behind, the world ahead, 
And there are many paths to tread
It is the year 2946 of the Third Age, and the lands east of 
the Misty Mountains are astir. From the cloud-shrouded 
peaks above the High Pass to the spider-infested gloom of 
the forest of Mirkwood, paths long-deserted are trodden 
once again. Busy merchants carry their wares to new 
markets, messengers bring tidings from foreign realms, 
and kings send forth armed men to extend their influence 
and the rule of law. Some say that a new age of freedom 
has begun, a time for adventure and great deeds to reclaim 
glories lost in long centuries of oppression and decline.
But adventures are not really things that people go out 
and look for. They are dangerous and rarely end well. 
While it is true that a handful of valiant individuals set out 
to make their mark on the world, for others it seems that 
adventure chooses them, as though it is the path they are 
fated to tread. They are restless warriors, curious scholars 
and wanderers, always eager to seek what was lost or 
explore what was forgotten. Ordinary people call them 
adventurers, and when they return successful, they call 
them heroes. But if they fail, no one will even remember 
their names...
In Adventures in Middle-earth, you take the part of the 
heroes of Middle-earth. You will travel the land, uncover 
its secrets, take part in its unfolding history and encounter 
its inhabitants and legends. As the Shadow creeps back 
across the lands of the Free Peoples, you will uncover hints 
of what is happening, and have the chance to play a part 
in the struggle against the Enemy.
Setting
Adventures in Middle-earth is set in the period between 
the conclusion of the events narrated in The Hobbit and the 
culmination of the terrible struggle described in the pages 
of The Lord of the Rings – the Twilight of the Third Age.
Encompassing more than seventy years, this time is 
ushered in when Bilbo the Hobbit finds the Ruling Ring, 
and finds its end many decades later with the final 
confrontation between the Free Peoples and the Dark Lord 
Sauron, and the destruction of the Ring. It is an exciting 
time, offering plenty of opportunities for adventuring in a 
land witnessing the end of an era.
In this volume, the game introduces the dangerous lands 
known collectively as Wilderland and covers the years 
immediately following the adventures of Bilbo the Hobbit 
and his companions. This region provides an excellent 
starting point for players entering Middle-earth for the 
first time, and recent events have brought the area to the 
forefront of history. 
Far Over The Misty Mountains Old
... he knew how evil and danger had grown and thriven in 
the Wild, since the dragons had driven men from the lands, 
and the Goblins had spread in secret after the battle of the 
Mines of Moria.
The lands extending from the Misty Mountains as far as 
the Running River are known as Wilderland. There are 
many good reasons for such an ominous name. Not only 
did the region once host a Dragon’s lair, but its greater 
part is occupied by the forest of Mirkwood, home to giant 
spiders, Orcs and other dangerous creatures.
Nevertheless, Wilderland has changed significantly in 
recent years. Smaug, the Dragon of Erebor, bane of the 
Northern world, has been killed, and the Necromancer 
has been driven from his fastness in Southern Mirkwood. 
Many proud folk are reclaiming their lost dominions: to 
the north rises the Lonely Mountain, a solitary peak that 
houses an underground stronghold of Dwarves of the line of 
Durin; on the valley below stands Dale, a city of Northmen 
newly rebuilt from its ruins, close to the trading town of 
Esgaroth on the Long Lake; from hidden halls dug under 
the northern eaves of Mirkwood issue again the hosts of 
King Thranduil, ruler of the Wood-elves; near the Ford of 
Carrock on the river Anduin, the Beornings, a folk of Men 
following the lead of Beorn the Skin-changer, keep their 
watch; while to the south the settlements of the Woodmen 
are multiplying along the vale of the Great River.
Lands Beyond
West of Wilderland, between the Misty Mountains and 
the Sea, is the region of Eriador. Desolate and mostly 
abandoned, Eriador was the land of great kingdoms, but

--- PAGE 11 ---
Wilderland
11
they are long  gone, destroyed by the Enemy long ago. There 
are still a few hidden refuges, like the valley of Rivendell 
and the Grey Havens on the shore, where the Elves 
remember the vanished glories of the north. Of course, 
the memories of mortals are far shorter – the Hobbits and 
few Men who still dwell in this land rarely recall the lost 
kingdoms, and do not know that the mysterious Dúnedain 
who guard them against wights and trolls are in fact the 
descendants of those Númenórean kings.
To the South, the Great River flows through the lands of 
Rohan and Gondor. The ancestors of the Horse-Lords of 
Rohan dwelt in Wilderland long ago, and are distant kin 
to the folk of the North, but they now dwell in the rolling 
grasslands of the south. They are close allies to the folk of 
Gondor, greatest of the surviving kingdoms of Men in the 
waning years of the Third Age. 
And Gondor is ever-watchful, for on its border is the land 
of Mordor, where the shadows lie…
Year 2946 of the Third Age
Five years ago, in the year 2941 of the Third Age in the 
reckoning of the Elves and the Men of the West, a fierce 
battle shook the roots of Erebor, the Lonely Mountain. 
Orcs, Wild Wolves, Men, Dwarves and Elves clashed 
under a sky darkened by giant bats, their hatred fuelled by 
ancient quarrels. Many deeds of renown were done that 
day,  and  some heroes prevailed while others fell,  in the 
end delivering a sweeping victory for the Free Peoples of 
the North.
A new alliance was born from the aftermath of that 
battle, now remembered as the Battle of Five Armies. In 
fact, if it hadn’t been for the threat of Bolg’s invading host, 
rallying the Free Peoples under a single banner, the long 
years of petty misunderstandings would have flared into 
open warfare. The spirits of Elves, Men and Dwarves were 
embittered and made miserable by the growing darkness 
of Mirkwood and the ever-present menace of the great 
Dragon of Erebor.

--- PAGE 12 ---
Adventures in Middle-earth
12
Each community had become suspicious of its neighbours 
and limited their dealings to meagre trades. When the din 
of battle subsided, the surviving Free Peoples looked upon 
each other with an open heart once again.
The Free Folks of the North
Once freed from the threat of Smaug the Dragon, and with 
two thirds of the Goblin warriors of the North eradicated, 
the inhabitants of the northern regions of Wilderland have 
the opportunity to finally look forward to a prosperous 
future. But five years after the Dragon’s demise, peace is 
still a fragile thing over the edge of the Wild, to be cared 
for and looked after, especially for those who dwell in its 
darkest  corners.
Bardings
Bard the Bowman, of the line of Girion – slayer of the 
Dragon, shooter of the Black Arrow – has been crowned 
King of Dale after successfully reclaiming his kingdom. 
Five years ago, he led those who chose to follow him 
north, leaving behind the ruins of Lake-town.  Warriors 
and craftsmen from the Long Lake came to rebuild Dale, 
and farmers from the lands to the south and west tilled the 
fields. Trees soon started to bear fruit and birds sang again 
where the desolation of Smaug once extended in ominous 
silence. Much sought-after help arrived from King Dáin of 
Erebor, and from King Thranduil of the Woodland Realm. 
Both rulers remember and honour Bard’s role in their 
present fortunes, and his generosity after the Battle of Five 
Armies.
The number of Bard’s followers has steadily increased as 
ever more people gather in the valley under the Mountain 
to recognise his valour and rightful kingship. The Bardings, 
as the inhabitants of Dale are now known, are becoming a 
powerful folk. They finally feel safe from direct threats and 
are prosperous and well-armed, with a king whose daring 
might soon prompt him to unite the scattered settlements 
found along the River Running into a wider kingdom of 
Men.
Dale
Abandoned for the long reign of the Dragon, Dale’s restoration has been astounding. Bard completed the repairs to 
the ruined city in four years, while simultaneously building a serious economic power. Dale’s position as the gateway 
to Erebor aided this growth, but the shrewdness of the Bardings should not be underestimated. Of particular legend 
is the Toy-market – its intricate, beautiful and delightful wares attract merchants from across the North, and 
sometimes beyond.

--- PAGE 13 ---
Wilderland
13
Beornings
In the years following the liberation of the Lonely Mountain, 
Beorn the Skin-changer became a great chief, gathering 
many men from far and wide under his command, starting 
with solitary hunters and fighters used to the harsh life of 
the wild. 
Now, under Beorn’s leadership, the Beornings are 
recognised by all to be a valiant and trusty people, sworn 
to fight the Shadow and its minions (when they are not 
following Beorn’s footsteps and acting as beekeepers and 
bakers of honey-cakes!).
Nobody knows why Beorn, a lonely hunter of Orcs and 
Wild Wolves, decided to welcome outsiders to his hall. He 
did so all of a sudden, after the Battle of Five Armies and 
the death of Thorin Oakenshield.
Today the Beornings rule a domain comprising the Carrock, 
the Old Ford and High Pass, and the land around them. 
They have made it their duty to watch over the passes and 
river crossings of their land, exacting tolls from all who 
ask to pass under their escort, and forbidding passage to 
all sorts of malevolent creatures.
The Land of the Beornings
Beorn’s domain extends along both sides of the River 
Anduin near the Carrock. His followers tend to live 
close to their leader in homesteads and small fortified 
settlements along the edge of Mirkwood from the 
Old Forest Road up to the Forest Gate. A visit to 
the hall of the skinchanger is not always a pleasant 
experience however, and the majority of visitors are 
turned away without an audience. Beorn requires that 
his followers keep the paths and roads open and safe, 
including the High Pass – one of the few relatively 
safe routes across the Misty Mountains.

--- PAGE 14 ---
Adventures in Middle-earth
14
 
The Carrock
This great rock rises from the upper reaches of the 
River Anduin, to the north of the Old Ford. The 
Carrock is a useful and majestic landmark, but not 
an easy crossing place. Although a stony ford joins the 
Carrock to the eastern shore of the Great River, there 
is no such assistance in reaching the western shore.
 
Dwarves of the Lonely Mountain
When Thorin Oakenshield died during the Battle of Five 
Armies, his close kinsman Dáin Ironfoot from the Iron 
Hills stepped in to lead the people of Durin. Dáin, a battle- 
hardened warrior, proved to be a wise King from the very 
beginning when he dealt out treasure from the Dragon’s 
hoard with an open hand to those who could rightfully 
claim a share of it.
Erebor
The Lonely Mountain has reverted from Dragon-
lair back to Dwarf-hold under the steady rule of 
King Dáin. Travellers admitted to Erebor are 
soon amazed by the magnificent scale of its halls 
and fabulous wealth of its delvings. It is a token of 
respect to bring a small piece of marble as a gift 
when visiting Erebor – tribute to the reconstruction 
following the death of Smaug. 
Under his reign, Erebor has thrived, enjoying good 
relations with the neighbouring realms, and the 
magnificence   of the Kingdom under the Mountain itself 
has exceeded Thorin’s dreams: the vast underground 
stronghold, dug after the fashion of the Dwarves since 
they first awakened in Middle-earth, is now the most 
prosperous dwarf-colony active in the Northern world.
Dwarf craftsmen labour in the city of Dale, Barding 
apprentices work the bellows in the forges under the 
mountain, and traders come and go from the Front Gate 
of Erebor to bring the products of the Dwarves’ cunning 
handiwork to distant lands.
Innumerable treasures of worth far surpassing anything 
made by modern hands are said to grace the deep 
chambers of the Dwarven city. The few envoys who have 
been granted access to the halls of the King speak of the 
wonders of the subterranean palace, foremost among 
them that which now sits on the unmoving breast of 
Thorin Oakenshield: the fabled Arkenstone, Heart of the 
Mountain.
 
Mirkwood
Described by many as "the greatest of the forests of 
the Northern world", Mirkwood is a sea of woodland 
measuring more than 400 miles from north to south 
and 200 miles from east to west, at the point where 
the Old Forest Road crosses its width. It extends 
across the very middle of Wilderland, and its presence 
has shaped the history of the region for centuries. 
Nobody knows exactly what lies within its borders, 
as no one has thoroughly explored it.
Elves of Mirkwood
Thranduil the Elvenking sits on his throne of carven wood, 
the ruler of his realm since the end of the previous age 
of the world. A prince of lofty lineage, he is a survivor 
of cruel wars that have had an enormous effect on his 
personality and outlook. Obeying his own foreboding 
heart’s counsel, he long ago resolved to forsake the light 
of the stars and build a strong fastness under the earth to 
guard his people.

--- PAGE 15 ---
Wilderland
15
The great hall of Thranduil lies underground, dug within 
the northern borders of the Forest of Mirkwood. This 
choice, odd as it may seem for a lord reigning over a 
people so fond of the rustling of leaves, is in truth not so 
unusual for one who has fought the forces of darkness for 
countless centuries, and could often only find refuge from 
the Enemy in secrecy and remoteness.
Though under siege, the Wood-elves were still able to find 
solace above ground; some live in houses and huts deep 
in the forest, or high among the branches of the tallest 
beech trees, unseen to mortal eyes who cannot distinguish 
their abodes from their surroundings. The few guests who 
enter the gates of Thranduil’s Palace on an invitation from 
the Elvenking, thinking to descend into a cold dungeon of 
stone, will be surprised, for this stronghold is unlike any 
fortress built by Men or even Dwarves. Its passages are 
twisting and echoing; its halls are airy, with pillars hewn 
out of the living stone and darkness chased away by bright 
lamps and red torchlight. Its inhabitants are ready to sing 
and take up the harp, as soon as their hands have let their 
bows and spears rest along the tapestried walls. But let 
any trespassers beware: for the Elves of Mirkwood are as 
cruel with foes as they are gracious to friends.
Men of the Lake
The town of  Esgaroth lies on the Long Lake. Its predecessor 
was mostly destroyed by the dragon Smaug in his death 
throes. Esgaroth is a town of traders and thieves, of 
merchants and mercenaries. They are close allies of the 
Elves of Mirkwood, and kin to the Bardings. Ambitious 
and cunning, the Men of the Lake are always on the 
look-out for opportunity. As trade grows in Wilderland, 
Esgaroth is set to be the cross-roads and market-place of 
the north. 
The folk of Esgaroth are a practical, suspicious folk. Let 
others be swayed by songs, by prophecies, or by dreams 
of glory – the Lake-folk know that chance and dragon-
fire can bring ruin to the loftiest of plans, and that there 
are few safe places in the Wild. Good times can turn bad 
quickly, so they are eager to take full advantage of the 
North’s brief season of hope and light before the darkness 
closes in again. 
The Woodland realm
The area of Mirkwood to the north of the Forest River is claimed by the Elvenking. Although King Thranduil lives 
in his underground fortress – The Halls of the Elvenking – many of his subjects live in houses and huts on the surface, 
or high up in the branches of trees. These dwellings can be found in wooded valleys of ancient oaks and beeches along 
the river that runs from the Grey Mountains to the north and to the Long Marshes to the east.

--- PAGE 16 ---
Adventures in Middle-earth
16
Many adventures begin in the quayside taverns and 
hiring halls of Lake-town; for that matter, many end in the 
alleyways of the town, or floating face down in the canals. 
Lake-town
Esgaroth is a free city governed by a Master elected 
from among the old and wise. Constructed just off 
the western shore of the Long Lake on pilings made 
from sturdy tree-trunks, Lake-town is a bustling 
centre of trade. Following King Bard’s proclamation 
seeking aid in rebuilding the north, many courageous 
individuals have gathered. Some come to play their 
part for the wider good, some come for treasure, and 
some come for glory. Whatever their motivation, all 
will have a part to play as the age of men draws 
nearer.
Woodmen of Wilderland
The Woodmen of Wilderland are Northmen dwelling in the 
lands south of the Old Ford as far as the Gladden Fields, 
between the Misty Mountains and the southwestern 
eaves of Mirkwood. They are a hardy folk, composed of 
many families and greater clans, but much diminished 
by the many wars that have wracked Middle-earth. It is a 
testament to their tenacity that they have overcome every 
difficulty they have faced, even learning how to survive in 
the shadow of a fortress of the Enemy itself: the dreaded 
tower of the Necromancer.
The strength of the Woodmen is in their unity. They all feel 
an unshakable bond of kinship with each other, scattered 
as they may be in their homesteads and small towns, 
inside the western borders of the forest or on the other 
side of the Great River, at the roots of the mountains, and 
gather often, to celebrate seasonal festivals, marriages 
and funerals, to form hunting parties to gather food, or to 
assemble a host in time of need.
For many years the Woodmen have been assisted by the 
Wizard, Radagast the Brown. A tender of beasts, Radagast 
has instructed birds and other creatures to watch over the 
Woodmen’s homes, to warn them in case   of danger. Often, 
Woodmen go to his abode to seek the Wizard’s advice, 
looking for him inside the fenced girth of Rhosgobel.
16

--- PAGE 17 ---
Wilderland
17
The land of the Woodmen
The Woodmen of Wilderland live in the valleys along the Great River and western eaves of Mirkwood. They have no 
King, and are divided into several Houses – a group of clans or related families who dwell together in the same great 
hall. Each House is ruled by its council of Elders. The four main houses of the Woodmen are the House of Mountain 
Hall, the House of Woodland Hall, the House of Woodmen-town and the House of Rhosgobel.
Mountain Hall is the main settlement of the Woodmen on the west side of the Great River. It is hidden in a narrow 
valley east of the Misty Mountains and defended by a turbulent river which loops around the settlement – an 
easily-guarded single dirt road is the only way in. Mountain Hall is famed for its mines, and many of its people are 
engaged in the hazardous task of finding the copper, tin and iron prized by folk across Wilderland.
Rhosgobel sprang up around the home of Radagast the Brown, on the southwestern edge of Mirkwood a mere 
hundred miles north of dread Dol Guldur. Its name ("Brown Hay") comes from the high thorn-hedge that separates 
the area from the nearby forest.
Woodland Hall lies fifty miles to the south of the Old Forest Road, in a wide clearing cut in the forest by generations 
of axe-wielding Woodmen. It is the largest community of Men to be encountered within the borders of the wild wood, 
a village protected by a very tall hedge and a stout stockade, raised beside a river flowing south from the Mountains 
of Mirkwood. The hall itself is magnificent, with intricate carvings adorn every wooden surface, each telling a 
different tale of the Woodmen. 
Woodmen-town lies forty miles to the south of Woodland Hall. It is a smaller settlement, situated in a clearing 
among the trees where the forest stream heads west. Several homesteads cluster around an ancient great house, 
home to the fabled Lamp of Balthi, attributed with prodigious healing powers. With a proud history going back 
more than nine hundred years, the House of Woodmen-town contains the most prominent families of the Woodmen, 
and its council of Elders is given precedence in all folk-moots. Many war-leaders have been chosen among its 
warriors and chieftains.

--- PAGE 18 ---
Adventures in Middle-earth
18
 
The Free Folks of Eriador
War and plague has already laid waste to Eriador, and 
now it is a desolate ruin where few folk remain. Those who 
still dwell here, though, live under the protection of the 
Dúnedain, the Rangers of the North, and that protection 
means that the Shire and Bree-land are blessedly safe 
and peaceful. Stories about Bilbo’s adventure over the 
edge of the wild, together with the growing number of 
dwarves travelling east to return to their homeland in 
Erebor, means there is more traffic between Eriador and 
Wilderland than there has been in many a long year.
Hobbits of the Shire
The slaying of the Dragon Smaug and the diminishing 
power of the Goblins and Orcs have had a profound effect 
even beyond the Misty Mountains. Rumours have reached 
the West of a new prosperity for all folks living in the 
Northern world. But even if the mountain passes are not 
as dangerous as before, the Wild is still the Wild and, for 
Hobbits living in their distant and comfortable holes, every 
hint of inconvenience or danger is a good reason to stay 
home and to forget about dwarf-gold and dragon- hoards!
But buried inside many young Hobbits is an adventurous 
side, a hunger to see the world and meet other folks. Stories 
of brave deeds and adventure can sometimes overwhelm 
certain Hobbits’ natural resistance to impulsive behaviour 
and send them out on the Road to see mountains and Elves.
But who knows where these unfortunate fellows have 
actually gone? Did they even cross the Shire boundaries 
before Hobbit common sense turned them back, or did 
they succeed in following the East-West Road to the 
mountain passes?
 
 
The Shire
The Shire is a rarefied, peaceful land, unwittingly 
protected from the outside world. Its inhabitants do 
not suffer change, and on the whole avoid excitement. 
They enjoy their quiet, rural existence, and the 
rolling fields and gentle green hills of the Shire are 
the perfect place to live out such a rural idyll. Very 
little happens in the Shire: outsiders are not welcome, 
and any of the big folk who do make their way there 
are always treated with suspicion. Adventurers are 
certainly not knowingly tolerated within its borders.
 
Men of Bree
Bree stands on the crossroads of the East-West and North-
South Roads, so news of the wide world comes swiftly to 
the taproom of the Prancing Pony. While most Bree-folk 
are stay-at-home sorts, sensible and solid and not given to 
running off on adventure, there are a few who go to seek 
their fortune. Dwarves often pass through Bree, on their 
way from their halls in Ered Luin to their new kingdom at 
Erebor, and these dwarves bring word of new opportunity 
in Wilderland. Now that the Beornings have secured the 
High Pass, the avaricious gaze of Bree’s merchants and 
traders looks east, over the Misty Mountains.
Bree-landers put little stock in tales of wights or trolls, in 
dragons and orcs. They do not know how sheltered they 
are – but there is old strength and courage in their bones. 
Bree is old as the hills, and the ancestors of the Bree-folk 
have endured wars and catastrophes beyond count. Who 
can say what their future holds?

--- PAGE 19 ---
Wilderland
19
 
Inns, fair and foul
At the heart of Bree stands The Prancing Pony, the 
original inn where paths cross and adventure can be 
found. All manner of folk, both fair and foul, cross 
its threshold. While Bree-folk are wise enough not 
to trouble themselves with the business of strangers, 
they’re happy enough to profit from it.  The Prancing 
Pony is the lively, thriving embodiment of the 
Bree-landers’ outlook, providing refreshment and 
lodging for all. Just a day’s journey from Bree lies 
the Forsaken Inn – an abandoned and ruined tavern 
that stands as testament to the utter wildness of the 
countryside that surrounds Bree in all directions.
 
Dúnedain
The Rangers are the Dúnedain, the Men of the West – 
the descendants of the folk of Númenor. Their ancestors 
founded the kingdoms of Arnor in the North and Gondor 
in the South, and defeated Sauron in the War of the Last 
Alliance, taking from him the Ruling Ring. In time, Sauron’s 
chief lieutenant, the Witch-King of Angmar, brought 
about the destruction of the North-Kingdom and tried to 
annihilate the Dúnedain, but they survived. They became 
the Rangers, a secretive folk, wanderers and wardens. 
They guard lands like Bree and the Shire from danger, 
thanklessly fulfilling ancient oaths.  Rangers travel far and 
wide. In the years to come, the chieftain of the Rangers, 
Aragorn son of Arathorn, will begin his great errantry. 
He will cross the Misty Mountains into Wilderland, and 
explore the length and breadth of those lands before going 
south to serve in the armies of Rohan and Gondor. He will 
go in disguise, and he will not go alone. 
The Free Folks of the South
If Wilderland has entered a time of renewal with the defeat 
of the Dragon, and Eriador has long fallen into ruin, then 
the southland is on the knife’s edge between the two. The 
two kingdoms of Rohan and Gondor are both proud and 
Rangers
The Rangers of the North are the last vestiges of fallen Arnor, little remembered by those they protect. The Rangers 
of the North make it their task to keep watch on both the dark places in Eriador and those places where light 
remains.  It is thankless work– most of those who enjoy the protection of the Rangers of the North know very little 
of them or their purpose. They are mysterious, secretive and lonely figures who do not spend long in company of other 
Free Folk. Most mistrust them and their purpose.

--- PAGE 20 ---
Adventures in Middle-earth
20
strong, although both are in decline at present. In Rohan, 
a cruel and greedy king sows dissent among his marshals. 
As for Gondor, the last kingdom of vanished Númenor 
has spent the last thousand years fighting a long defeat 
against the Enemy, and while the Necromancer may have 
been defeated in Wilderland, scouts on the borders of 
Mordor report growing strength in that dark land. In such 
troubled times, many heroes and adventurers of the South 
look to Wilderland for hope and allies. 
The Riders of Rohan
The Rohirrim are distant kin to the Beornings and the 
other folk of the North, but they followed Eorl the Young to 
war in the south long ago. They are the horse-lords, born 
to the saddle, and no orc-host can endure the charge of 
the Riders. Their land lies on the west bank of the Anduin, 
in the grassy plains that stretch from the river to the forest 
of Fangorn. They guard the Gap of Rohan that leads past 
the mountains into Eriador. 
While it has been many years since any of the Riders 
returned to their ancestral lands in the Vales of Anduin, 
the passing of the Dragon – not to mention troubles in the 
Riddermark – may prompt some of the Horsefolk to try 
their luck in the north once more.
The Men of Gondor
The warriors and knights of Gondor have held fast 
against the Shadow in Mordor for many centuries. They 
have suffered much; of their three great cities, Osgiliath is 
ruined and Minas Ithil has become Minas Morgul, a city of 
the dead. Only Minas Tirith, the Tower of Guard, endures. 
The Gondorians are great builders and stone-masons, 
and were once the equal of the Dwarves, although much 
of their ancient craft has been lost. They are also great 
warriors and soldiers, holding the crossings of the River 
against Orcs and other servants of the Shadow. The death 
of the Dragon and the defeat of the Necromancer have 
raised hopes in Gondor that the Shadow is weakening, 
but the older captains and sages know better. The great 
war against the Enemy is yet to come, and Gondor will 
be at the forefront of the conflict. Now is the time for the 
young warriors of Gondor to sharpen both their swords 
and their skills, in preparation for that last battle. 
The Plains of Rohan
South of the Misty Mountains lie vast fields of rolling grasslands, where the horns of the distant north still resound 
in battle over the thunder of hooves. There dwell the Rohirrim, the Horse-lords of Rohan. In their own tongue, they 
are the Eorlingas and their land, the Riddermark. For years beyond counting, as Men reckon time, the Rohirrim 
have dwelt upon the plains of Rohan, but their ancestral enemies, the Dunlendings, claim the land is theirs, stolen 
long ago.

--- PAGE 21 ---
Wilderland
21
 
Minas Tirith
Minas Tirith has stood for thousands of years 
as a beacon to the Free Peoples of Middle-earth. 
A great walled, tiered city built upon the living rock 
of Mount Mindolluin, at the edge of the White 
Mountains. Known for its great gates, Minas Tirith 
has kept a long watch over the lands of Mordor. 
These days the gleam of the White City is only caught 
in the brightest light of a summer’s day. The Tower 
of the Sun has become the Tower of the Guard. The 
White Tree blossoms no more. The streets are half 
empty, and many of its rich buildings are falling 
into disrepair. The Stewards rule the kingdom, for 
a king has not sat on the throne of Gondor for nearly 
nine hundred years. These are the twilight years of 
Gondor.
 
The Shadow
The darkest legends of all folks living in the Northwest of 
Middle-earth speak of an evil power, an age-old Enemy 
whose greatest desire is to cover all the lands in darkness. 
Ancient beyond reckoning, this Shadow has taken many 
shapes, always in the attempt to conquer and consume all 
who opposed it. It suffered many defeats at the hands of 
valiant kings and the Powers of the world themselves, only 
to rise again in a new guise.
Almost two-thousand years ago, this Shadow entered 
Greenwood the Great, the forest of Wilderland. It secretly 
crept around a naked hill in the south, and built Dol 
Guldur, the Hill of Sorcery. From there, the darkness 
spread under the eaves of the forest, slowly turning it into 
a place of horror and dread. Many animals fled, leaving 
behind them an eerie silence, while other creatures crept 
in, as though heeding the call of a dark master: Orcs 
and giant spiders began to multiply, threatening all who 
entered or lived near the Forest.
The folks who called the wild wood their home suffered 
greatly, and soon forgot the beauty of Greenwood the 
Great, renaming it Mirkwood. Among them, the Silvan 
Elves and the Woodmen living along its western borders 
endured to this day, but not without much strife. The 
Elves retreated to their fortress underground beyond 
the mountain range that crosses the forest in the north, 
while the Woodmen learnt to survive in small groups to 
escape the Shadow’s notice. They started to refer to the 
dark presence occupying Dol Guldur as the Necromancer, 
failing to recognise it as the ancient Enemy.
Some years ago, a council of the Wise resolved to chase 
away the Shadow in the Forest once and for all. Powerful 
lords gathered their strength, and the Shadow fled to the 
East. The Forest finally knew a moment of respite, but the 
darkness of Mirkwood is now centuries old, and its hold 
on the forest’s deepest recesses is still strong. It will take 
many years for the Free Folks of the North to reclaim and 
cleanse the wood in its entirety, and only if the Shadow is 
kept away.

--- PAGE 22 ---
Proclamation of his Majesty King Bard of Dale  
Free Peoples of the North!
We have won our freedom from the oppression of the Dragon, 
have cleared from our lands the threat of the Goblins from the far 
mountains, and have proved that together we are mightier than our 
foes.
I believe that our destiny is in our own hands, providing that we do not 
forget this lesson. Together we are strong. Before we came together, 
we were as frightened children, hiding in our homes from the shadows 
of the wider world. But now we have a chance of something better, 
and all it takes is our courage to grasp it.
And so, Free Peoples of the North, gather up your courage and bring 
it to me. I have plans for the North such as you will scarce believe, but 
I need your strength to turn plan to deed. In return for playing your 
part in our rebirth, I will pay well in gold, land and the satisfaction 
of knowing you lead your people from the shadows into a brighter 
future.
Make haste to Lake-town. On the first day of each month my 
advisors and I will appoint tasks to the willing, and disperse rewards 
to those who bring their tasks to completion. And they shall be 
celebrated, for they are the heroes of our age.
Overview

--- PAGE 24 ---
Adventures in Middle-earth
24
- Overview -
Middle-earth is a setting with enormous depth, rich in 
history. It has its own atmosphere, its own set of influences 
and its own internal logic. To help you bring this world to 
life in your games, we’ve put together rules which highlight 
and reinforce the themes found in the books. The following 
chapters customise and augment the standard fantasy 
rules, shaping them to suit the world of Middle-earth.
 
A Middle-earth adventure should not feel the same as 
any other run-of-the-mill fantasy adventure. Players are 
invited to embrace those things which make Middle-earth 
so wondrous a place in which to adventure, and discover 
a way to play that creates stories that satisfyingly evoke a 
Middle-earth feel. 
Our Adventures in Middle-earth rules fall into two kinds: 
rules for use in creating a character, and game rules. 
Rules for Creating Characters
"He had a strange feeling as the slow gurgling stream 
slipped by: his old life lay behind in the mists, dark adventure 
lay in front."
Adventurers are often simply common individuals born in 
exceptional times. They have most likely led an ordinary 
life until the day something happened and changed the 
way they looked at their world and the people they knew. 
For some reason, the place they grew up in didn’t look as 
interesting and boundless as before, or they started to 
realise that they weren’t doing enough for the safekeeping 
of their loved ones by staying at home in idleness, 
pretending shadows weren’t growing nearer and nearer 
every year.
For every member of the Wise and the Great, for every 
Wizard or Ranger of the North, there are countless more 
like Samwise Gamgee, simple people who never crossed 
the boundaries of their own village  or town, or individuals 
like Gimli son of Glóin, who ignored the existence of 
Rohan until he visited it, or Men like noble Faramir who, 
while learned in many lores, never encountered an Elf or 
a Hobbit before the War of the Ring.
Whatever their motivation or purpose, most characters 
created for Adventures in Middle-earth are individuals 
who have chosen to abandon their day-to-day activities 
and become adventurers. They do not begin as great 
captains or legendary hunters, nor are they subtle Wizards 
trying to weave the threads spun by fate, they are bold 
souls putting themselves in peril by their own free will, 
sometimes simply for the love of adventure itself.
The following chapters show you how to craft an 
adventurer drawn from one of the Free Peoples. Using the 
guidelines presented, all players will be able to create their 
hero, complete with strengths and weaknesses, equipment

--- PAGE 25 ---
Overview
25
and abilities, hopes and fears. Beyond these chapters 
players will find additional new rules and play structures 
that bring extra Middle-earth atmosphere to your table. 
Characters in Adventures in Middle-earth are referred to 
as Player-heroes. The adjudicator of the game is referred 
to as the Loremaster.
Cultures
"For the rest, they shall represent the other Free Peoples of 
the World: Elves, Dwarves, and Men."
All Player-heroes come from one of the Free Folk, the heroic 
cultures who have not yet fallen to the Shadow. Each 
of these cultures offers a number of unique and special 
virtues, traits that reflect the character’s upbringing and 
heritage. Your culture also determines certain starting 
talents and ability score adjustments, as well as some of 
your starting equipment and how you are seen by others 
in Middle-earth.
Choosing a home culture replaces the choice of race. 
 
Adventures in Middle-earth offers a range of setting-
specific cultures, selected to provide focus to your 
company of Player-heroes and to add credibility to why 
they have come together to seek out adventure. Balanced 
against this is the provision of a range of cultures from 
further afield, so that any fan of Middle-earth will find 
something they want to play in the setting.
The heroic cultures are described in Chapter Three.
Player-heroes from all the varied cultures of Men and the 
Dúnedain all start with a single Cultural Virtue. Characters 
from all Cultures can choose to acquire a Cultural Virtue 
in place of an Ability Score Improvement at their 4th, 8th, 
12th, 16th and 19th levels. 
Chapter Five detailing the virtues starts on page 100.
Classes
"If by life or death I can save you, I will."
Leaving home and setting off on the road is a courageous 
choice. Player-heroes will be leaving behind all they know 
and love, so they must have a strong motivation to become 
an adventurer. In Adventures in Middle-earth, a character 
class is as much a calling as it is a vocation – the choice of 
class determines why  the character embarks on adventures 
just as much as it describes how  they overcome perils.
The unique classes featured in Adventures in Middle-earth 
are designed to help create characters who feel like they 
belong in Middle-earth.  They carefully reflect the range of 
characters we see in Tolkien’s novels, and are one of the 
tools the game uses to bring the spirit of the setting to your 
table.
There is little in the way of blatant, showy magic in 
Middle-earth, nor do the divine powers who watch over 
the world grant spells or blessings to their adherents as a 
matter of course. While there is a supernatural component 
to Middle-earth, it is much more subtle and hidden than 
in other fantasy settings. Therefore, to maintain the proper 
atmosphere, the use of the classes presented in this chapter 
is preferred. That said, Tolkien expected other hands and 
minds to take up the work of chronicling and exploring his 
creation, so if you want to make Middle-earth your own 
by adding clerics of the Valar or sorcerers steeped in 
the mystic cults of the Blue Wizards, the choice is yours. 
Consider adding proficiencies in the new skills (see page 
27) to classes who warrant them. 
Backgrounds
"Dark have been my dreams of late’ he said, ‘but I feel as 
one new-awakened."
The Backgrounds in Adventures in Middle-earth give your 
character various qualities that help define who they are: 
two skill proficiencies, a Distinctive Feature, a Speciality, a 
Hope, and a source of Despair. 
Roleplaying your character in accordance with your 
background grants Inspiration. Inspiration not only allows

--- PAGE 26 ---
Adventures in Middle-earth
26
a roll with advantage, it can also be spent to trigger certain 
special abilities, representing an effort of will or the use of 
an innate power. Finally, while a character has Inspiration, 
they may avoid the worst effects of being Miserable.
Virtues
"But I say: let a ploughman plough, but choose an otter for 
swimming, and for running light over grass and leaf or over 
snow – an Elf."
Virtues are a new kind of Trait introduced in Adventures 
in Middle-earth. These are a number of special abilities 
shared by individual cultural groups, but not reliably 
present in every member of that culture. During the 
creation of a Player-hero, if you chose a Mannish culture 
you will get to initially choose one such Virtue that 
personalises your character. 
Those Player-heroes from other cultures need to wait 
until 4th level, when they may choose a virtue instead of 
increasing an ability score.
Additional Virtues are available to all cultures and are 
referred to as Open Virtues. A Player-hero from any 
culture may be “Fell-handed” or exhibit expertise in a 
particular skill.
Due to the range of Virtues available to Player-heroes 
these can be found in their own chapter.
Game Rules
Journeys
"They went on again, always on and on with only brief 
halts."
Long quests and journeys over many leagues are a vital 
component of The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings, and 
so journeys are an important aspect of Adventures in 
Middle-earth. Where many fantasy adventures may start 
at the dungeon door, in Middle-earth the journey itself 
can often be the adventure.
 
The journey rules in Chapter Eight, in concert with the 
Adventurer’s and Loremaster’s Maps, describe how to plan 
an expedition across Middle-earth, and give you tools to 
create the evocative stories that happen along the way.
These journey rules are an addition to the standard rules 
set, designed to reflect the significance of travel in stories 
set in Middle-earth.
Corruption
"It is by our own folly that the Enemy will defeat us!" cried 
Boromir. 
Adventures in Middle-earth does not use the alignment 
system. All Player-heroes are assumed to be heroes – 
perhaps reluctant, perhaps ill-favoured and foul-looking, 
perhaps suspicious or haughty but heroes all the same. 
Heroes try to do good, but must contend with their own fears 
and failings. Therefore, all Player-heroes in Adventures in 
Middle-earth have a Shadow Weakness – a failing in their 
character that the Shadow seeks to exploit. 
A character’s Shadow Weakness is determined by their 
starting character class. Player-heroes accumulate Shadow 
Points against their Wisdom ability score. Shadow Points 
directly represent the heavy burden of the fight against the 
Great Enemy. They are acquired by witnessing too much 
sorrow, travelling through blighted areas, claiming tainted 
treasure, and worst of all, openly embracing the ways of the 
Shadow by committing Misdeeds.
When a hero’s Shadow Points exceed their Wisdom, they 
become subject to the Miserable condition and are in 
danger of falling into madness for a time, which causes the

--- PAGE 27 ---
Overview
27
worst aspects of the character, according to their Shadow 
Weakness, to come out. If they cannot overcome their 
darker impulses, their Shadow Weakness determines the 
ruinous path into corruption they take as they fall deeper 
into shadow. 
Corruption and Shadow Weaknesses are discussed in 
full starting on page 180. These are new rules designed to 
heighten the Middle-earth feel of your games.
Audiences 
You will meet many foes, some open, and some disguised; 
and you will find friends upon your way, when you least 
look for it.
 
Chapter Ten contains rules for encounters with great lords 
and lesser chance-meetings. In Middle-earth, strangers 
are often mistrusted, and the various Free Folk are divided 
by suspicion as well as the long miles between them. 
Adventurers are not free to simply come and go as they 
please, taking whatever they wish, or treating with kings as 
equals. They may well be treated as outsiders – or worse, 
brigands – if they arrive unannounced at a king’s hall. So 
it is that rules are provided to adjudicate such encounters. 
Audiences are an addition to the standard rule set, and are 
designed to evoke the structured societies of Middle-earth.
Fellowship Phase
"Well, I’m back," he said. 
Most games of Adventures in Middle-earth presume one or 
two adventures a year – “The Adventuring Phase”. When 
the adventuring is done, characters are given time between 
their travels to recover for a while, spending time with 
loved ones, looking after a business, or pursing their own 
interests. This time between adventures is referred to as the 
Fellowship phase, and characters may perform various 
undertakings during it – learning new abilities, removing 
Corruption, or establishing powerful patrons as allies. 
The Fellowship phase is an addition to the standard rule 
set, and is designed to evoke the storybook atmosphere of 
Middle-earth.
Player-heroes in Adventures in Middle-earth have 
access to a few setting-specific skills, some hard to come 
by, and some near-essential.
Riddle
An accepted custom among many creatures, speaking 
in riddles is usually allowed among strangers meeting 
for the first time who want to speak guardedly. Use 
Intelligence (Riddle) checks to discuss a subject while 
concealing part of what you know, such as when 
explaining something about yourself without revealing 
your true identity. This skill is also used to gain helpful 
insight into spoken or written riddles.
Lore
Your Intelligence (Lore) check measures your ability 
to recall unusual and obscure information about old 
legends, ancient war gear, bits of song, rare artefacts, 
and the reading of runes. Lore replaces the Arcana 
skill; magic is an imprecise term, for folk use it to 
describe both the blessings of the Elves and the deceits 
of the Enemy. 
Shadow-lore
A dark branch of knowledge, Intelligence (Shadow-lore) 
checks allow you to share what you’ve learned about the 
ways of the Enemy and the various creatures that stalk 
through the shadows of Middle-earth. Where Lore deals 
with the past, Shadow-lore deals with the present and the 
rising threat of the Enemy’s many minions.
Traditions
Your Intelligence (Traditions) check measures your ability 
to recall the proper courtesies and etiquette expected by 
the various Free Folk cultures, along with some of their 
stories about their people and their respective histories. 
An Intelligence (Traditions) ability check is used 
whenever you wish to gain an audience with someone of 
influence. Traditions also covers the knowledge of such 
religion as exists in Middle-earth. 
New Skills

--- PAGE 29 ---
Bard,
 
With the passing of so many long years I had never thought to again 
hear of such delight beyond the borders of my own realm, but it seems 
that your city has made quite an impression on my emissaries. 
 
We have become peoples so divided that I never dared hope to hear tell 
of such diverse peoples in Dale. I am told that my emissaries have had 
occasion to treat with Men of all kinds, from the great white city 
leagues to the South, from West across the Misty Mountains and 
from the eaves of Mirkwood, with grim and grey Dwarves from the 
Grey Mountains, even two of Bilbo’s kind, who like him I hear were 
scarce able to stop eating.  
 
I thank you for your hospitality and gifts, and extend an invitation 
for you and your household to visit us in Mirkwood.  Send word and I 
shall send boats for you. 
 
Your friend in peace,
 
Thranduil
Cultures

--- PAGE 30 ---
Adventures in Middle-earth
30
- Cultures -
“But everywhere he looked he saw signs of 
war… Under the boughs of Mirkwood there 
was deadly strife of Elves and Men and fell 
beasts. The land of the Beornings was aflame; 
a cloud was over Moria; smoke rose on the 
borders of Lórien…”
Every Player-hero in Middle-earth belongs to a particular 
culture: a set of traditions and customs, and in some cases 
lineage, that define them as belonging to a particular 
group. These groups are mostly geographic in nature: for 
example the Bardings and Men of the Lake share much 
in terms of ancestry, but are considered different cultures 
for the purpose of Adventures in Middle-earth; likewise, 
the Beornings are a very young folk, with no special 
heritage to differentiate them from the Woodmen. Their 
culture however is what defines them, and marks them 
as different; Elves of Mirkwood while being comprised of 
various lineages are all considered to be one group for the 
purposes of Adventures in Middle-earth.
All cultures presented here belong to the Free Folks, brave 
peoples that refuse the darkness, some of whom are at 
open war with it.
When choosing a culture, players should read through 
the summary description, maybe even reading some or 
all the background examples provided, and choose which 
description is closest to the hero concept that they have 
in mind.
The cultural descriptions are detailed in the following 
pages, in the format below:
Introduction
The geographical area that is home to the Culture, some 
information on how they live and an overview of their 
history and origins.
Description
Some details that typically distinguish the appearance of 
the hero type.
Common Names
Guidance on naming conventions and lists of common 
male and female names.
Adventuring age
Players choose the starting age of their character using the 
information in this section as a guide. 
Heroes rarely start their adventuring career before they 
are deemed fully grown by their culture. On the other 
hand, if they progress too far into adulthood without

--- PAGE 31 ---
Cultures
31
answering the call to adventure, then they probably won’t 
heed it at all.
Standard of Living
A culture’s Standard of Living is a rough  indication of  the 
resources of any one of its members. The game ranks the 
average economic status of a folk in five tiers: Poor, Frugal, 
Martial, Prosperous, and finally Rich. It is used to gauge 
the approximate economic background of a character, 
and his ability to make out-of-pocket expenses. 
Traits
Cultures give different ability score modifiers and special 
abilities, reflecting innate aptitudes, upbringing, and beliefs. 
Every reader of Tolkien knows how much he loved 
languages  –  their  structure,  origins  and  evolution 
– and to what length he laboured to devise the various 
names native to his fictional world, or to find suitable 
real-world ones.
The languages of most folks inhabiting Middle-earth 
have been given some attention, and the most important 
ones, like the different Elven tongues, sport a sizable 
vocabulary and consistent grammatical rules. Every 
name in The Lord of the Rings and The Hobbit has 
been carefully crafted, building upon solid linguistic 
foundations, and represents a precise cultural influence. 
The native language  of  every character-type presented 
in this chapter has been identified, and a list of personal 
names appropriate to each culture is provided below for 
players to choose from.
The 
different 
languages 
can 
provide 
intriguing 
roleplaying opportunities if the Loremaster and his 
players are interested. This shouldn’t get in the way 
of the fun, however: while Tolkien used the linguistic 
differences among the various realms of Middle-earth 
to good narrative effect, he also found it simpler to avoid 
steep cultural barriers and gave most cultural groups 
(even Orcs and other more fantastical creatures, like 
Ents) at least a passing knowledge of what constituted 
a ‘lingua franca,’ the so-called Common Speech, or 
Westron. This allows players who don’t want to deal with 
the complex relations between the various peoples and their 
languages to ignore the entire subject altogether without 
damaging the setting. 
Languages in the Game
In the game, all Player-heroes are considered to be able to 
speak the Common Speech at least at an acceptable level 
of fluency, in addition to their own native languages. 
Additionally, there are several characteristics that can 
be used to represent knowledge of foreign or ancient 
tongues:
Lore: An Elf or Scholar hero with proficiency in this 
skill possesses some knowledge of the High-elven speech 
(Quenya), also known as the Ancient Tongue. At the 
end of the Third Age, Quenya is used in Middle-earth 
mostly as a ceremonial language, on inscriptions or in 
invocations.
 
Traditions: A character with proficiency in Traditions 
can communicate on a basic level with most folks among 
the Free Peoples, knowing key words and expressions in 
most languages.
Trading: Characters who have often had to deal with 
merchants in foreign countries have generally picked up 
a word or two in various local languages, and can state 
their intentions fairly clearly, as long as they do not need 
to communicate overly complex or profound matters.
On Men
In places, we have used the archaic term ‘Men’ to describe 
an entire culture or people – Men of Minas Tirith, for 
example, or Men as distinct from Elves. This usage is 
derived from Tolkien’s own style, and has been chosen for 
consistency and euphony with Tolkien’s texts. It should 
not be taken to imply that only males of that culture can 
become adventurers – women like Galadriel, Éowyn and 
Lúthien Tinúviel  provide excellent examples of dynamic 
and inspiring characters, wholly active in the battle 
against the Shadow.
Concerning Names and Languages

--- PAGE 32 ---
Adventures in Middle-earth
32
- Bardings -
“Bard had rebuilt the town in Dale and men had gathered to him from the Lake and from South and 
West, and all the valley had become tilled again and rich, and the desolation was now filled with birds 
and blossoms in spring and fruit and feasting in autumn.”
From the Ashes
The city of Dale lay in ruins for almost two centuries, under the 
shadow of the Lonely Mountain. It was destroyed by the Dragon 
Smaug when he descended from the north to claim the vast 
treasure of the Dwarves of Erebor. Five years ago, the Dragon was 
killed and Men, led by Bard the Bowman, the Dragon-slayer, 
started to rebuild the city. Since then, Bard has been crowned 
King, and Dáin Ironfoot, the Dwarf-lord from the Iron Hills, 
is the new King Under the Mountain. Under their rule, 
Men and Dwarves have laboured hard, collaborating to 
rebuild Dale, as they used to do before the Dragon 
came, and the city is swiftly approaching the glory it 
attained hundreds of years ago.
Bardings are descended from the same cultural group 
as the Beornings and the Woodmen of Wilderland. They 
are rapidly becoming the most powerful group of Men in 
Wilderland, strategically positioned as they are between the 
Elven kingdom of the Woodland Realm and the Dwarven 
Kingdom under the Mountain. Under the guidance of 
the new king, the city of Dale provides the Dwarves of 
Erebor with everything from food and clothes to wood and 
ceramics, in exchange for the many products of their skilful 
metalworking and stonecraft. Trading with the Elves gives 
access to the superior quality of their woodworking.

--- PAGE 33 ---
Cultures
33
Description
The Men of Dale are Northmen of noble origins. They 
are often tall and strong-limbed, with fair hair, although 
dark or even black hair is not unknown. Their men 
usually shave their beards completely unless they are 
very old, and cut their hair shorter than the Woodmen 
of Wilderland. Women let their hair grow very long, but 
often braid it in tight tresses.  Adventurers from Dale can 
be easily recognised as they carry the best equipment to 
be found among the Men living in Wilderland.
Barding Names
A traditional Barding name is usually composed of one 
or two elements (for example, Dag, Day, or Lif-stan, Life 
Stone). Like most Northmen, Bardings often name their 
sons and daughters after a renowned ancestor or relative, 
or choose a name beginning with the same sound or 
sharing one element with that of the father (whose name 
is often given with their first name when introduced 
formally – for example, Lifstan son of Leiknir, or Ingrith 
daughter of Ingolf ).
Male Names: Aegir, Agmund, Agnarr, Alfrim, Alfwald, 
Arn, Arnulf, Bain, Balki, Bard, Bern, Bragi, Brand, 
Brandulf, Dag, Domarr, Drengi, Egil, Einar, Eirik, Erland, 
Erling, Farald, Farmann, Farulf, Fastarr, Finn, Finnulf, 
Folki, Folkmarr, Galmann, Galti, Gautarr, Geirmund, 
Gismund, Gorm, Grimarr, Guthorm, Hafgrim, Haki, 
Hakon, Halfdan, Hamarr, Hedinn, Helgi, Hergrim, Hildir, 
Holgeir, Holti, Holvidur, Hord, Ingi, Ingolf, Ioli, Isolf, Jarl, 
Jarmarr, Joalf, Joar, Jofur, Jokell, Karl, Ketill, Ketilmund, 
Kol, Kolbeinn, Kori, Leiknir, Lifstan, Lodin, Lomund, 
Magni, Mord, Munan, Nari, Nefstan, Nerulf, Odd, 
Oddmarr, Odvarr, Olaf, Olvard, Omund, Ornolf, Ottarr, 
Ragnarr, Randur, Reinald, Runolf, Sandarr, Saxulf, 
Sigdan, Sigfast, Sigmarr, Sigvald, Sigward, Sigmund, 
Skarf, Skefill, Smidur, Steinarr, Thorald, Thorfast, 
Torwald, Ulfarr, Ulfied, Unnarr, Valbrand, Valdimarr, 
Vali, Vandil, Varinn, Varr.
Female Names: Aldis, Aldrif, Asfrid, Asny, Astrith, 
Bera, Bergdis, Brinhild, Dagmar, Dagny, Dalla, Edda, 
Eilif, Erna, Eydis, Estrild, Frida, Geira, Gerda, Grimhild, 
Gudrun, Gundrid, Gunnhild, Halla, Halldis, Halldora, 
Helga, Hild, Holma, Inga, Ingirun, Ingrith, Lif, Linhild, 
Kelda, Ragna, Runa, Saldis, Sigga, Signy, Sigrid, Sigrun, 
Solveig, Thora, Thordis, Thorhild, Thorleif, Ulfhild, 
Ulfrun, Una, Valdis, Vigdis, Walda.
Standard of Living
Thanks to their trade with Elves, Dwarves and far lands 
to the south, a Barding can choose any trade and be 
almost sure to thrive. Craftsmen from Dale include 
carpenters, cartwrights, shoemakers, tailors, tanners and 
weavers, not to mention those apprenticed to Dwarven 
weaponsmiths and masons. For these reasons, Bardings 
are considered a Prosperous folk.
Bonus Equipment: A fur-lined travelling cloak, travelling 
gear for the current season, a bedroll, a backpack or 
saddlebags, comfortable boots, 5d6 silver pennies, plus 
choose any two: a tent, extra blankets, rope, a magical toy, 
a silver comb, an amulet of a raven’s feather, a bottle of 
wine from Dorwinion.
Barding Traits
Your Player-hero has certain traits deriving from your 
Barding ancestry.
Ability Score Increase – Your Constitution score 
increases by 1 and you may increase two additional 
ability scores by 1.
Adventuring Age – 16-30. Bardings don’t usually 
become adventurers before their 16th year of age, and 
rarely continue beyond their forties, when they retire to 
serve their family and folk.
Size – Most Bardings stand between 5 and 6 feet tall. Your 
size is Medium.
Speed – Your base walking speed is 30 feet.
Clear Eyed – You have proficiency in the Insight skill.
Starting Virtue – You gain one Barding Cultural Virtue 
of your choice.
Languages – You can speak, read, and write Dalish – an 
archaic version of the Common Speech.

--- PAGE 34 ---
Adventures in Middle-earth
34
- Beornings -
“Beorn indeed became a great chief afterwards in those regions and ruled a wide land between the 
mountains and the wood...”
The Lands of the Bear
The region along the upper portion of the river Anduin was once 
home to many men, but their number dwindled as the years passed. 
Only recently the land around the Carrock, a stony river-island, 
has started to see men returning to watch the Old Ford and the 
road to the High Pass through the Misty Mountains. Though 
few in numbers, they rapidly demonstrated to trespassers 
that only those who are welcomed by Beorn the skin-changer 
can hope to cross the Great River with their lives. And Beorn 
does not welcome anybody with ease...
When Beorn broke his long isolation, he became a leader 
of men. His legendary ferocity attracted mountain-hunters 
and fighters without allegiance, warriors who lost their 
families or who forsook their clans due to their violent 
tempers, and needful souls drawn to his protective 
nature. In time, all kinds of individuals flocked to his side, 
giving rise to the Beornings.
Faithful to the teachings and will of their chieftain, they 
protect the mountain passes and the road that leaves 
the forest to cross the river Anduin, watching for 
every creature, on two legs or four, that dares defy 
them. Men, Elves and Dwarves still have to earn the 
trust of this suspicious folk, and often must pay heavy 
tolls for safe passage across the Beornings’ domain.

--- PAGE 35 ---
Cultures
35
Description
Beornings are rugged men with brawny arms and legs, 
and lively women with undaunted eyes. Their spirit is 
reflected in their appearance: the women have long, wild 
hair and the men unkempt beards. Born free, they pay 
no tribute nor bow to any crown, keeping at peace the 
strip of land they have chosen as their own. All foes of the 
Beornings are mortal foes, but friends who prove to be 
trustworthy are friends for life.
Beorning Names
The Northmen inhabiting the Vales of the Anduin River 
speak the same language and share a common vocabulary 
of personal names. The Beornings and the Woodmen favour 
different names, but they are set apart especially by their 
peculiar use of bynames and nicknames. The Beornings 
are gradually embracing the custom of choosing names 
honouring their renowned chieftain, either by having a B as 
the first letter or containing the word for Bear (for example, 
Balderic, Beranald, Beormud). They further individualise 
their names by adding a byname, referring to their 
provenances or occupations, or physical or temperamental 
qualities (Arnulf the Old, Berangar the Eloquent). Bynames 
are often bestowed by an event, especially if connected to a 
special feat of skill or deed of renown.
Male Names: Adalard, Ageric, Agilfrid, Agiulf, Alaric, 
Alberic, Amalric, Amand, Andagis, Atalaric, Atanagild, 
Ansegisel, Ansovald, Aregisel, Arnulf, Audovald, Avagis, 
Badegisel, Baldac, Balderic, Barald, Beorn, Beran, 
Beranald, Berangar, Bertefried, Beormud, Cilderic, Eberulf, 
Eboric, Ebregisel, Ebrimuth, Ediulf, Ermanaric, Euric, 
Eutaric, Evermud, Evoric, Frideger, Gararic, Garivald, 
Geberic, Gisalric, Gerold, Grimald, Grimbald, Grimbeorn, 
Grimfast, Gundovald, Hartgard, Hartmut, Hartnid, Hathus, 
Heriwulf, Hildebald, Imnachar, Ingelram, Ingund, Iwald, 
Iwgar, Leudast, Magneric, Malaric, Maracar, Merovech, 
Munderic, Odo, Odovacar, Otbert, Ragnacar, Ramnulf, 
Rathar, Reginar, Ricfried, Rigunth, Roderic, Sigeric, 
Sigibert, Sunnegisil, Theodard, Theodebert, Theodemir, 
Theodwin, Theudebald, Theuderic, Thorismund, Walcaud, 
Waleran,Widuven, Willicar, Wulferd.
Female Names: Adosinda, Amalfrida, Amalina, 
Avagisa, Avina, Beranhild, Brunihild, Gailavira, 
Garsendis, Geleswinta, Gelvira, Grimhild, Hermesind, 
Heva, Hilduara, Radegund.
Bynames: from or of a specific place (Baldac from the 
High Pass, Beran of the Mountains), the Bald, the Black, the 
Bold, the Captain, the Cloaked, the Crooked, the Eloquent, 
the Foresighted, the Good, the Good-sword, the Loyal, the 
Old, the Pugnacious, the Quick-witted, the Quiet, the Red, 
of the Red-shield, the Rich, the Runner, the Sad, the Sharp, 
the Smith, the Thin, the Trouble-maker, the Wise, the Young.
Standard of Living
The Beornings sustain themselves by breeding cattle and 
horses and keeping hives of great bees. Recently, Beorn 
is considering requesting a safe-passage toll from all 
travellers crossing their lands. For the moment, though, 
the Beorning culture ranks as Martial.
Bonus Equipment: A brightly coloured travelling cloak, 
travelling gear for the current season, a backpack or 
saddlebags, a belt dagger, boots, 3d6 silver pennies, plus 
choose any one: a fine woollen blanket, an ancient dagger 
made from bear claws, a necklace of orc-teeth, a bundle of 
tasty honey-cakes.
Beorning Traits
Your Player-hero has certain traits deriving from your 
Beorning ancestry. 
Ability Score Increase – Your Strength score increases by 
1 and you may increase two additional ability scores by 1.
Adventuring Age – 16-30. Beornings don’t usually 
become adventurers before their 16th year of age, and 
rarely continue beyond their forties, when they retire to 
serve their family and folk.
Size – Most Beornings are fairly stocky and often stand 6 
feet tall or more. Your size is Medium.
Speed – Your base walking speed is 30 feet.
Angry – You have proficiency in the Intimidation skill.
Starting Virtue – You gain one Beorning Cultural Virtue 
of your choice.
Languages – You can speak the Vale of Anduin Tongue – 
an archaic version of the Common Speech, closely related 
to Dalish.

--- PAGE 36 ---
Adventures in Middle-earth
36
- Dúnedain -
“In the wild lands beyond Bree there were mysterious wanderers. The Bree-folk called them Rangers, 
and knew nothing of their origin.”
Not All Those Who Wander Are Lost
When the Realm of Arnor ended long ago, the Dúnedain of the 
North did not abandon their struggle against the Enemy, but 
passed into the shadows and out of the history of most Men and 
Elves. Severely diminished in number, they became a secret people, 
wandering in disguise among crumbling walls and ruined towers. 
For almost a thousand years they dwelt in hidden places, in lonely 
woods and silent hills, but they never ceased to keep watch over 
the borders of their former kingdom as Rangers of the North. 
While the years have lengthened, the task of the Dúnedain 
has always been the same: to keep the folk of Eriador free 
from care and fear. They tirelessly patrol the region’s many 
paths and roads and protect those who journey across them. 
They labour secretly, keeping to themselves while in the wild, 
and rarely giving their names to the travellers they save or to 
the countrymen whose farms they guard at night, when evil 
things come out from dark places.
There is little glory to be gained as Rangers of the North, 
as their valour cannot be rewarded with honour, and their 
deeds are seldom sung. The memory of their long heritage 
is preserved in Rivendell, where their long strife against 
the Shadow is remembered and recorded. Since the days 
of their last King, the sons and chieftains of the Dúnedain 
have been fostered in the house of Elrond, and  it is there, 
in Imladris, that the heirlooms of their lost kingdom are 
treasured.

--- PAGE 37 ---
Cultures
37
Description
The Rangers are the last descendants in the North of the 
Dúnedain, Kings among Men that once came to Middle-
earth over the Sea out of Westernesse. When they do not 
disguise their features, they are tall and lordly, towering 
above most Men living in the North. They are often silent 
and grim of countenance, and look wise and mature 
beyond their years.
They generally wear comfortable but weather-beaten 
garments, favouring high leather boots and heavy cloaks 
of dark grey or green cloth, complete with ample hoods 
that can be cast over a worn helm.
Dúnedain Names
The Dúnedain retain the ancient tradition of naming their 
sons and daughters using the Sindarin tongue. 
Male Names: Adrahil, Amlaith, Anardil, Anárion, 
Anborn, Angbor, Arador, Araglas, Aragorn, Aragost, 
Arahad, Arahael, Aranarth, Arannel, Aranuir, Araphant, 
Araphor, Arassuil, Arathorn, Araval, Aravir, Aravorn, 
Argeleb, Argonui, Arvedui, Arvegil, Arveleg, Baranor, 
Belecthor, Beleg, Belegorn, Beregond, Beren, Bergil, 
Boromir, Celepharn, Cirion, Damrod, Denethor, Derufin, 
Dervorin, Dírhael, Duilin, Duinhir, Ecthelion, Egalmoth, 
Eldacar, Eradan, Faramir, Findegil, Finduilas, Forlong, 
Golasgil, Halbarad, Hallas, Hirgon, Hirluin, Húrin, 
Ingold, Iorlas, Mablung, Malbeth, Malvegil, Ohtar, 
Orodreth, Thorondir, Thorongil, Turgon.
Female Names: Gilraen, Ioreth, Ivorwen, Lothíriel, 
Morwen, Nelladel.
Standard of Living
Little is known of the way of the Dúnedain of the North, 
but what is certain is that they never wear or carry 
anything whose worth cannot be measured in a practical 
way. Their gear or garments are never considered precious 
for the gleam of stone or gold, but for their capability to 
endure long journeys and strenuous fights. This is why 
their culture is considered Martial.
Bonus Equipment: A dark hooded travelling cloak, 
travelling gear for the current season, a backpack, a belt 
dagger, boots, 3d6 silver pennies, plus choose any two: a 
ring or jewel that is an heirloom of your line, a pipe and 
pipeweed, a well-made blanket, a wide-brimmed hat, a 
stout walking stick. 
Dúnedain Traits
Your Player-hero has certain traits deriving from your 
Dúnedain ancestry.
Ability Score Increase – Your Wisdom  and Constitution 
scores increase by 1 and you may increase two additional 
ability scores by 1.
Adventuring Age – 18-60. In the North, the Dúnedain 
are generally sent out into the Wild at the age of twenty, 
when they begin their customary period of errantry, but 
may begin to go on adventures even at a younger age. 
They retain their strength of body and will longer than 
most Men, but usually cease to travel far from Eriador 
when they reach their fifties. 
Size – Most Dúnedain stand well over 6 feet tall. Your size 
is Medium.
Speed – Your base walking speed is 30 feet.
Lore of Númenor – You have proficiency in the History 
skill.
Raised in the Wild – You have proficiency in the Survival 
skill.
Languages – You can speak, read, and write both 
Sindarin and Westron, the Common Tongue.
Starting Virtue – You gain one Dúnedain Cultural Virtue 
of your choice.

--- PAGE 38 ---
Adventures in Middle-earth
38
- Dwarves of the Lonely Mountain -
“There now Dáin son of Náin took up his abode, and he became King under the Mountain, and in time 
many other Dwarves gathered to his throne in the ancient halls.”
The Kingdom under the Mountain
When the Dwarves first settled on Erebor, the Lonely Mountain, they dug deep 
and far, carving a kingdom of stone and jewels beneath its slopes. 
Lamps and candles burned ceaselessly to illuminate their busy 
hands, and their treasure grew along with their fame in the 
Northern world. 
One day, the greatest Dragon of the Age came south on 
the wings of greed; Smaug the Golden burnt the Kingdom 
under the Mountain to ashes, smashing its pride with a 
lash of his tail. But Dwarves can hold a grudge that outlasts 
a Dragon’s life, and at the end of an incredible adventure, 
Thorin Oakenshield and thirteen fellow conspirators lived 
to see the death of Smaug. Today, the halls of the Dwarves 
resound again with the din of hammer and anvil, and their 
masons craft the roads and buildings of Dale and Erebor with 
stones of many colours. The Men of Dale, now also called 
‘Bardings’ in honour of their lord, the Dragon-slayer, provide the 
busy Dwarves with everything they need to sustain themselves, 
in exchange for the fruits of their exceptional stone and 
metalworking.
Since the killing of the Dragon, the Dwarves have 
ceased to be a wandering folk of exiles, and have 
undertaken great labours to restore the Kingdom 
under the Mountain. Its wealth and renown are rapidly 
growing, and seem destined to grow greater than before: 
new halls are dug, cavernous streets under the earth are 
adorned with pillars as numerous as trees in a forest, while superior 
armour and keen swords leave their smiths’ workshops in ever greater 
number. More Dwarves arrive every year from distant lands and join King Dáin’s 
underground court.

--- PAGE 39 ---
Cultures
39
Description
Dwarves are an ancient and secretive race, whose 
customs and traditions are mostly unknown to outsiders. 
At the end of the Third Age, they are a proud but dwindling 
people, survivors from a distant past. Almost all Dwarves 
that can be encountered speak of themselves as belonging 
to ‘Durin’s folk’. They are probably the most redoubtable 
warriors in Middle-earth, hard to break or corrupt, but 
often at odds with other Free Peoples over old quarrels 
or new slights. Dwarves are short and stocky, with robust 
limbs and heads crowned with long hair and longer 
beards that give them their typically elderly appearance. 
They are long-lived, known to reach 250 years of age.
The “Outer” Names of Durin’s Folk
All Dwarves of Durin’s Folk receive a true name at birth 
that they do not reveal to members of other races. In their 
dealings with other people, they adopt personal names in 
the language of friendly cultures. The Dwarves of Erebor 
are no exception, and commonly use names after the 
fashion of the Men of the North. This custom has been 
in use for so long that a number of names have become 
traditionally associated with Dwarves, and are used 
almost exclusively by them. 
Dwarves of renown are sometimes given a byname, 
usually an honorific title celebrating an exceptional deed 
or distinctive quality (for example, Thorin Oakenshield or 
Dáin Ironfoot).
Male Names: Ai, Anar, Balin, Beli, Bifur, Bláin, Bofur, 
Bombur, Borin, Burin, Bruni, Dáin, Dori, Durin, Dwalin, 
Farin, Fíli, Flói, Frár, Frerin, Frór, Fundin, Gimli, Ginar, 
Glóin, Gróin, Grór, Hanar, Hepti, Iari, Kíli, Lófar, Lóni, 
Náin, Náli, Nár, Narvi, Niping, Nói, Nori, Núr, Nýrád, 
Óin, Ónar, Óri, Póri, Regin, Svior, Thorin, Thráin, Thrór, 
Veig, Vidar.
Female Names: Dís, Hón, Kóna, Már.
Standard of Living
With the fabulous Dragon-hoard of Erebor reclaimed 
and their Kingdom restored, the Dwarves of the Lonely 
Mountain rank as a Rich culture.

--- PAGE 40 ---
Adventures in Middle-earth
40
Bonus Equipment: A fur-lined travelling cloak, travelling 
gear for the current season, a bedroll, an ornamented 
walking stick, a backpack, comfortable boots, 10d6 silver 
pennies, plus choose any two: another 2d6 silver pennies, 
a gold coin from the hoard of Smaug the Magnificent, 
artisan’s tools of your choice, a musical instrument, a fine 
beard comb and mirror, a gold ring, a flask of dwarven 
spirits.
Dwarf Traits
Your Player-hero has certain traits deriving from your 
Dwarven ancestry. 
Ability Score Increase – Your Constitution score increases 
by 2.
Adventuring Age – 50 to 100. Dwarves generally start 
their life on the road in their fifties, and do not usually 
consider retiring before their nineties. Around that time, 
they feel they can no longer stay away from their family, 
or want to dedicate themselves solely to the perfection 
of their crafts. But Dwarves can remain active until they 
are more than two hundred years old, and may return to 
adventuring if a great need arises, like the opportunity 
to avenge an old insult or injury, or to recover a treasure 
or reclaim a long-lost dwarf-hold. A healthy Dwarf who 
avoids a violent death can reach 250 years of age.
Size – Dwarves generally stand between 4 to 5 feet tall 
and can weigh upwards of 160 lbs. Your size is Medium.
Speed – Your base walking speed is 25 feet. Your speed is 
not reduced by wearing heavy armour.
Night Vision (Dwarf) -  Accustomed to life underground, 
you have superior vision in dim conditions. You can see in 
Dim light within 60 feet of you as if it were bright light, but 
you cannot see in the dark.
Dwarven Resilience – You have advantage on saving 
throws against poison, and you have resistance against 
poison damage.
Dwarven Combat Training – You have proficiency with 
axe, hand axe, great axe, light hammer, and warhammer.
Tool Proficiency – You gain proficiency with the artisan’s 
tools of your choice: jeweller’s tools, mason’s tools, miner’s 
tools, smith’s tools, or woodcarver’s tools. You also gain 
proficiency in one musical instrument of your choice.
Stonecunning – Whenever you make an Intelligence 
(History) ability check related to the origin of stonework, 
you are considered proficient in the History skill and add 
double your proficiency bonus to the check, instead of 
your normal proficiency bonus.
Languages – You can speak, read, and write Dalish, 
which is the tongue of the Bardings, who speak an older 
version of the Common Tongue. You can also speak, read 
and write the secret language of your people, which has 
never been shared with any others.
Origin (Pick One)
As a Dwarf of the Lonely Mountain you must pick an 
origin of either Erebor or the Iron Hills.
Erebor
You belong to the line of Durin’s folk once native to Erebor, 
though you may have spent much of your life on the 
road, or come from the Blue Mountains in the West. Long 
accustomed to hardship, you’ve learned much in your 
time, but you’ve come home at last.
Additional Ability Score Increase – Your Wisdom score 
increases by 1.
Dwarven Toughness – Your hit point maximum increases 
by 1, and it increases by 1 every time you gain a level.
Road Wisdom – You may choose one additional tool 
proficiency of your choice.
The Iron Hills
You belong to the line of Durin’s folk that headed east 
to found a hold in the Iron Hills when Erebor was first 
reclaimed, before the coming of Smaug. Your people are 
great miners and stern warriors, with strong arms from 
long hours of breaking stone.
Additional Ability Score Increase – Your Strength score 
increases by 2.
Tool for War – You have proficiency with the mattock.

--- PAGE 41 ---
Cultures
41

--- PAGE 42 ---
Adventures in Middle-earth
42
“In a great hall with pillars hewn out of the living stone sat the Elvenking on a chair  
of  carven wood.”
Lingering in the Twilight
The Elvenking of the Woodland Realm has ruled over his subjects from the times when 
Mirkwood was called Greenwood the Great. For centuries, travellers and wanderers 
have heard the eerie sound of their laughter echoing in every corner of the wood; 
today, the court of Thranduil is an underground fastness in the northernmost 
region of Mirkwood, a bastion protected by magic and held in arms against the 
Shadow that has fallen on the forest. Its denizens are ever-vigilant sentinels, 
members of a diminishing people that have suffered greatly in many wars. 
They have grown suspicious of trespassing foreigners and what they may 
bring. Now, however, the great victory at the Battle of Five Armies has 
somewhat eased the relationships between Elves, Dwarves and 
Men living in the area, and trade has increased after years of 
seclusion.
The Elves of Northern Mirkwood are members of the 
Firstborn, the earliest denizens of Middle-earth. Also 
called Wood-elves, the followers of Thranduil the 
Elvenking are a reclusive folk. They may be less wise or 
ambitious than nobler Elves, but they have chosen to 
live a simpler life. 
Their attachment to all things natural lets them 
rejoice in leading hunts and holding feasts, 
even under the threat of what lurks in the dark 
of Mirkwood. It is this love for Middle-
earth and their hopes of reclaiming the 
entire forest from the Shadow that prevents 
them from abandoning their home and 
sailing to the uttermost West.
- Elves of Mirkwood -

--- PAGE 43 ---
Cultures
43
Description
Elusive warriors devoted to the preservation of their 
hidden realm, Silvan Elves are a fair but hardy folk. Their 
experiences have made them suspicious of other peoples, 
but have not robbed them of the ability to delight in the 
simple pleasures of living. Even though their power is 
slowly waning, Elves are staunch fighters dedicated to 
resisting the encroaching darkness, either alone or side-
by-side with trusted allies. As all those who belong to the 
Firstborn, they are not subject to illness or old age, and 
thus can dwell within the circles of the world until they 
choose to leave it, or are slain.
Mirkwood Elf Names
For the most part, the Wood-elves bear names fashioned 
in the Grey-elven language.
Male Names: Aerandir, Amras, Amroth, Aredhel, Caranthir, 
Denethor, Edrahil, Elladan, Erestor, Galdor, Galion, Guilin, 
Haldir, Legolas, Lindir, Orophin, Oropher, Thranduil.
Female Names: Finduilas, Míriel, Nimrodel.
Standard of Living
The Elves of Mirkwood are a folk at a war, and dedicate 
much of their wealth to their defence, ranking their culture 
as Martial.
Bonus Equipment: A grey or green travelling cloak, 
travelling gear for the current season, a backpack or 
saddlebags, a belt dagger, boots, 3d6 silver pennies, and 
choose any two: A grey blanket, a wineskin, a short bow 
and a quiver of 20 arrows, a white jewel on a chain of 
silver, a  hunting knife, a musical instrument.
Mirkwood Elf Traits
Your Player-hero has certain traits deriving from your 
Elven ancestry. 
Ability Score Increase – Your Dexterity score increases 
by 2 and your Wisdom score increases by 1.
Adventuring Age – 100 to 500. Elves are invulnerable to 
age, and may become adventurers at any time after they 
reach adulthood (at about a century of age). Considering 
the level of ability of a starting hero, players should avoid 
choosing an excessively venerable age for their character.
Size – Elves range from 5 to over 6 feet tall, with slender 
builds. Your size is Medium.
Speed – Your base walking speed is 30 feet.
Night Vision  – Accustomed to twilight forests and the 
night sky, you have superior vision in dark and dim 
conditions. You can see in dim light within 60 feet of you 
as if it were bright light, and in darkness as if it were dim 
light. 
The Eyes of Elves – You have proficiency in the Perception 
skill.
Elvish Dreams – Your sleep is not like that of mortals. 
When you sleep, you can choose to send your mind into 
an “Elvish Dream” retaining full consciousness of your 
surroundings and you needn’t close your eyes. Four hours 
spent in such dreams acts on you as if you had rested an 
entire night.
The Tools of War – You have proficiency with daggers, 
spears, broadswords, short swords, and short bows.
A Whisper Through the Leaves - You have proficiency 
in the Stealth skill. You have advantage on Stealth skill 
checks whenever you are in a forest and can make Hide 
attempts even when only lightly obscured by foliage.
Languages – You can speak the old language of your 
people, the Woodland tongue, along with the ability to 
speak, read, and write Sindarin. You can also speak the 
Common Tongue.

--- PAGE 44 ---
Adventures in Middle-earth
44

--- PAGE 45 ---
Cultures
45
- Hobbits of the Shire -
“Hobbits are an unobtrusive but very ancient people, more numerous formerly than they are today; for 
they love peace and quiet and good tilled earth: a well-ordered and well-farmed countryside was their 
favourite  haunt.”
A Close Friendship with the Earth
The Shire, a pleasant corner in the Quiet of the World, has stood safe and 
peaceful for many years. Its inhabitants, a little people called Hobbits, 
possess a love for solid traditions and respectable 
ways, and a strong dislike for anything out of 
the ordinary. If Hobbits had their way, the 
days would go by in an unchanging world, 
as they have since anyone can remember. But 
even if most Hobbits pretend not to heed it, 
there are dark things moving beyond the 
borders of the Shire; and while someone 
has long been taking care that no shadow 
interrupts their well-ordered lives, these 
shadows are lengthening.
 
Since Mr. Bilbo Baggins’ astonishing 
adventure with a group of Dwarves and 
a travelling Wizard, all kinds of stories 
concerning remote lands, dark woods, 
Giants, Elves, and dark halls beneath the 
earth have started to circulate among 
Hobbits of the more adventurous sort.
Now, certainly not everyone believes 
that Mr Baggins really left his comfortable 
hole at Bag End to go anywhere, but some 
actually do, and every year another lad or lass 
leaves home to go adventuring. Gandalf, the conjuror, 
has often been blamed for such incidents, and the sight of his 
pointy hat is sure to ruin the day of all respectable Hobbits.

--- PAGE 46 ---
Adventures in Middle-earth
46
Description
Hobbits are much smaller than Men, even smaller than 
Dwarves, and are often mistaken for children by Men who 
see them. Such likeness may be explained through a long-
forgotten common ancestry, which would also explain 
why Hobbits often like or dislike the same things as Men 
do. A merry folk, Hobbits are good-natured individuals. 
When pushed to resort to weapons, they choose small 
swords and short hunting bows, which they can shoot 
with uncanny precision when needs be.
Hobbit Names
Hobbits names are composed of a first name and a family 
name. First names for boys are usually simple and short, 
with Hobbit girls being often given names of flowers or 
precious stones, but among the older families survives a 
custom of giving more heroic and high-sounding names 
whose origin can be traced back to a time before the Shire. 
Names like Fredegar or Hildibrand betray a common root 
with similar names used by Men in the vales of the Great 
River. 
Family names seem to fall into three main categories: 
surnames without a traceable meaning (Baggins, Boffin, 
Took), ‘descriptive’ surnames (Hornblower, Proudfoot), 
and surnames hinting at a geographical feature (Burrows, 
Hayward).
Male Names: Adalgrim, Adelard, Andwise, Balbo, 
Bandobras, Berilac, Bilbo, Bingo, Blanco, Bodo, 
Bowman, Bucca, Bungo, Carl, Cotman, Cottar, Dinonas, 
Doderic, Dodinas, Drogo, Dudo, Erling, Everard, 
Falco, Fastred, Ferdibrand, Ferdinand, Ferumbras, 
Filibert, Flambard, Folco, Fortinbras, Fosco, Fredegar, 
Frodo, Gerontius, Gorbadoc, Gorbulas, Gorhendad, 
Gormadoc, Griffo, Halfred, Hamfast, Hamson, Harding, 
Hending, Hildibrand, Hildifons, Hildigard, Hildigrim, 
Hob, Hobson, Holfast, Holman, Hugo, Ilberic, 
Isembard, Isembold, Isemgrim, Isengar, Isumbras, 
Largo, Longo, Lotho, Madoc, Marcho, Marmadas, 
Marmadoc, Marroc, Meriadoc, Merimac, Merimas, 
Milo, Minto, Moro, Mosco, Mungo, Nob, Odo, 
Odovacar, Olo, Orgulas, Otho, Paladin, Peregrin, Polo, 
Ponto, Porto, Posco, Reginard, Robin, Rorimac, Rudigar, 
Rufus, Sadoc, Samwise, Sancho, Saradas, Saradoc, 
Seredic, Sigismond, Ted, Tobold, Togo, Tolman, 
Wilcome, Will, Wiseman.
Female Names: Adaldrida, Adamanta, Amaranth, 
Angelica, Asphodel, Belba, Bell, Belladonna, Berylla, 
Camellia, Celandine, Chica, Daisy, Donnamira, Dora, 
Eglantine, Elanor, Esmeralda, Estella, Gilly, Hanna, 
Hilda, Lily, Linda, Lobelia, Malva, Marigold, May, 
Melilot, Menegilda, Mentha, Mimosa, Mirabella, 
Myrtle, Pansy, Pearl, Peony, Pervinca, Pimpernel, Poppy, 
Primrose, Primula, Prisca, Rosamunda, Rosa, Rose, 
Ruby, Salvia, Tanta.
Family Names: Baggins, Banks, Boffin, Bolger, 
Bracegirdle, Brandybuck, Brown, Brownlock, Bunce, 
Burrows, Chubb, Cotton, Gamgee, Gardner, Goldworthy, 
Goodbody, Goodchild, Goold, Greenhand, Grubb, 
Hayward, Headstrong, Hornblower, Maggot, Noakes, 
North-Tooks, Proudfoot, Puddifoot, Roper, Rumble, 
Sackville, Sandyman, Smallburrow, Took, Twofoot, 
Whitfoot.
Standard of Living
Hobbits live in peace and relative prosperity. Their land 
is rich and their borders protected. They seldom trade 
with other folk, with the occasional exception of travelling 
Dwarves. Their culture’s economy ranks as Prosperous.
Bonus Equipment: A fur-lined travelling cloak, travelling 
gear for the current season, a bedroll, a backpack or 
saddlebags, comfortable boots, 5d6 silver pennies, plus 
choose any two: a fine walking-stick, dwarf-made pots 
and pans, enough handkerchiefs to see you through the 
adventure, a pipe and pipeweed, an overstuffed pillow, a 
plate and cutlery fit for picnics, ink & parchments to write 
letters home.
Hobbit Traits
Your Player-hero has certain traits deriving from your 
Hobbit ancestry.
Ability Score Increase – Your Dexterity score increases 
by 2.
Adventuring Age: 25-60. Hobbits do not easily 
abandon their comfortable lives, but when they do 
they usually wait at least for their coming of age at 33. 
But a particularly reckless Hobbit might feel the call 
to adventure when in his tweens, as Hobbits call their 
twenties. Hobbits generally pass early in their second

--- PAGE 47 ---
Cultures
47
century, remaining fairly healthy until the very end of 
their twilight years.
Size – Hobbits are generally just slightly under three feet 
tall and weigh around 50 lbs. Your size is Small.
Speed – Your base walking speed is 25 feet.
Resilient – You have advantage on saving throws against 
Corruption.
Hobbit Nimbleness – You can move through the space 
of any creature who is at least one size larger than yours.
Noble Pursuits – You have proficiency with short bows. 
You gain proficiency with one artisan’s tool of your choice: 
brewer’s supplies, carpenter’s tools, cartographer’s tools, 
cook’s utensils, gardener’s tools, potter’s tools, smith’s 
tools, weaver’s tools, or woodcarver’s tools. You also gain 
proficiency with pipes.
Hobbit Elusiveness – You have proficiency in the Stealth 
skill.
Languages – You can speak, read, and write the Common 
Tongue, or Westron as the scholars have it. Whatever 
native tongue the Hobbits once had is all but gone, save 
for a few unique words such as “mathom” – an object 
one has no immediate use for, but for whatever reason, is 
unwilling to throw away.
Family Ties (Pick One)
While the original three lines of the Hobbits have long 
intermingled, the traits of the various ancestor strains 
show up in odd ways, sometimes with one or more 
characteristics of the different breeds appearing in the 
same family. 
As a Hobbit of the Shire, you must pick one of the three 
following family lines. The ability score increases and 
traits indicated below are in addition to those above, 
received by all Hobbits.
Harfoot
Ability Score Increase – Your Wisdom score increases 
by 1.
Unobtrusive – You can attempt to hide even when you 
are obscured only by a creature that is at least one size 
larger than you.
Stoor
Ability Score Increase – Your Constitution score 
increases by 2.
Fallowhide
Ability Score Increase – Your Intelligence score increases 
by 1.
Student of Old Lore – You have proficiency in the Lore 
skill and with calligrapher’s supplies.

--- PAGE 48 ---
Adventures in Middle-earth
48
According to their own tales… they were the descendants of the first Men that ever wandered into 
the West of the middle-world. Few had survived the turmoils of the Elder Days; but when the Kings 
returned again over the Great Sea they had found the Bree-men still there, and they were still there 
now, when the memory of the old Kings had faded into the grass.
At the Sign of the Prancing Pony
The small region of the Bree-Land is perhaps all that remains of the vanished 
kingdoms of Eriador, a little island of civilisation in the midst of a great 
deserted wilderness. The area takes its name from its chief village, the 
town of Bree. The great mound of Bree-hill shelters its houses from the 
cold north wind since time immemorial, there where two ancient 
roads meet. The Greenway comes up through Dunland and Tharbad 
from the gap of Rohan. The East road – The Road, really – is even 
older. It runs from the furthest east to the shores of the Sea. 
Like the Shire, Bree is a safe haven for its denizens and travellers 
alike, despite the many threats that surround it. These days though, 
only Dwarves come up regularly along the East Road, and the 
Greenway sees even less traffic. But Bree endures.
The other three villages – the farming village of Staddle, Combe to the 
east and Archet in the Chetwood – see fewer visitors than Bree (and 
that’s how they like it). Villagers come to Bree to bring goods to market, 
to trade with the wandering Dwarf-smiths and to drink in its famous inn, The 
Prancing Pony.
The Men of Bree tell stories of their ancestors, but if there is any truth left in 
those old tales, not even the Wise know, for they have been here for a long 
time even as Elves measure the passing years.
- Men of Bree -

--- PAGE 49 ---
Cultures
49
Description
The inhabitants of the Bree-land are mostly Men, but there 
are many families of Hobbits spread among the villages, 
especially in Staddle, and several of their customs and 
habits have been adopted by the Big Folk. The Men of Bree 
appear familiar to visitors from the Shire, and both the Big 
and the Little Folk live in very friendly terms. Their general 
appearance helps in this matter, too, as the Men of Bree 
are often brown-haired and rather short, tend to be stocky 
and broad, and are quick to laugh. 
Bree-folk Names
Bree-folk names consist of a first name and a family name. 
Male names are frequently short, while their female names 
tend to take after flowers. Bree family names sound a bit 
peculiar to outsiders. They often combine two natural 
sounding words not often placed together.
Male Names: Barliman, Bill, Bob, Nob, Giles, Tom, 
Rowlie, Mat, Willie, Harry.
Female Names: Daisy, Bliss, Joan, Agnes, Emeny, Lily, 
Flora, Rose.
Family Names: Appledore, Asterfire, Bellsap, Briarcleave, 
Butterbur, Cherryborn, Chesterstout, Droverwind, Ferny, 
Foxglow, Goatleaf, Hardybough, Hazelsheen, Heathertoes, 
Hedgedon, Hollybirch, Kettlegrass, Lilyhawk, Mossburn, 
Oakstout, Pickthorn, Pollenroad, Rushlight, Sedger, 
Shrubrose, Sweetroot, Thistlewool, Wayward
Standard of Living
The Bree-land is not as wealthy as the Shire, but the 
Bree-folk still maintain a lifestyle that is Prosperous. 
Part of their good fortune is due to the protection of their 
Guardians, the Rangers of the North; these mysterious 
wanderers roam the land, silently patrolling the borders 
and roads, without anyone in Bree-land knowing for 
certain what they are up to. 
Bonus Equipment: A fur-lined travelling cloak, travelling 
gear for the current season, a bedroll, a backpack or 
saddlebags, comfortable boots, 5d6 silver pennies, plus 
choose any two: a staff or cudgel, a dwarf-made set 
of cooking pans, a lucky ring of ancient design, a letter 
from your family, a spare pair of walking boots, an extra 
travelling cloak.
 
Men of Bree Traits
Note: The traits listed here refer to a member of the Big 
Bree-folk. A player wishing to make one of the Little Bree-
folk should make a Hobbit of the Shire, taking either 
the Harfoot or Stoor Family Ties (the Fallowhides never 
wanted anything much to do with Bree) and declare that 
they are from Bree-land.
Ability Score Increase – Your Wisdom score increases by 
1 and you may increase two additional ability scores by 1.
Adventuring Age – 16-30. In the rare cases where Bree-
folk go adventuring at all, they do it when the strength of 
youth is in their limbs, and usually return home to settle 
down before their fortieth year.
Size – Most Big Bree-folk tend to be broad, rather than 
tall, and few are very much larger than 5 feet in height. 
Your size is Medium.
Speed – Your base walking speed is 30 feet.
Crossroad Glance – You have proficiency in the Perception 
skill.
Starting Virtue – You gain one Bree-folk Cultural Virtue 
of your choice.
Languages - You can speak, read, and write Westron, 
heavily accented with the rough brogue of Bree-land.

--- PAGE 50 ---
Adventures in Middle-earth
50
“They had been wealthy and powerful, and there had been fleets of boats on the waters.”
The Heart of Trade
The denizens of Lake-town and the inhabitants of Dale are two separate folks 
sharing a common heritage. Esgaroth was first founded by merchants 
coming from Dale, but soon the city grew independent from that powerful 
city of Northmen, and ended up outliving it when Smaug destroyed Dale 
and scattered its population. For almost two centuries the survivors of 
Dale and the original Men of the Lake lived together under the threat of 
Dragon-fire, until their destinies were suddenly sundered by the flight of 
the Black Arrow.
Today, the city of Dale has been rebuilt and its crown restored 
to the head of the rightful heir of Girion; one of the first 
pronouncements of King Bard has been the recognition of 
the independence of Esgaroth and the rule of its council. 
The Men of the Lake busied themselves for many years 
with the great works needed to build their town anew, and 
the refounded Esgaroth emerges today from the surface of the 
Long Lake as a testimony to their strength of purpose.
The Men of the Lake are among the most enterprising and ambitious 
inhabitants of Wilderland. Even in their darkest years they never 
completely stopped looking beyond the borders of the Long Lake, 
and the most daring among them travelled far when everyone else 
cared only for their own defences. Today, Lake-town sits in the middle 
of a crossroads of opportunities, with a stronghold of Dwarves 
needing provisions and an ambitious young kingdom of Men to the 
north, and an ancient realm of Elves to the west.
- Men of the Lake -

--- PAGE 51 ---
Cultures
51
Description
The Men of the Lake distinguish themselves from their 
neighbours, the inhabitants of Dale, by their greater love 
for ‘modern’ things and exotic novelties, a contrast with 
the Bardings’ healthier respect for tradition. Where the 
wealthiest among the folk of Dale display their status 
wearing gold bracelets and torques, or pins and brooches 
with precious stones, the inhabitants of Lake-town favour 
rich furs and fine-woven fabrics, often the product of foreign 
craftsmanship. Their differences extend beyond mere 
appearance though: Bardings are said to prize nobility and 
lineage, while Lake-men value above all men or women who 
elevate themselves through resourcefulness and daring. 
Men of the Lake Names
The Northmen of Dale and Esgaroth speak the same 
language and share a common vocabulary of names. To 
choose a name, see the list for the Bardings at page 33.
Standard of Living
Since the death of the Dragon, trade has steadily become 
more profitable than ever. With every passing year more 
wealth goes up and down the Running River, as the 
demand for the goods that only Esgaroth is able to provide 
increases - with the Kingdom under the Mountain and 
Dale adding their requirements to those of the Elves of the 
Woodland Realm, the Men of the Lake rank as belonging 
to a Prosperous culture.
Bonus Equipment: A fur-lined travelling cloak, travelling 
gear for the current season, a bedroll, a backpack or 
saddlebags, comfortable boots, 5d6 silver pennies, and 
choose any two: a fishing rod and line, a set of playing 
cards (marked or unmarked – your choice), a gaming set, 
a supposed “dragon bone” fished out of the Long Lake, 
a random item from any other culture’s list of bonus 
equipment.
Men of the Lake Traits
Your Player-hero has certain traits deriving from your 
Lake-town ancestry. 
Ability Score Increase – Your Charisma score increases 
by 1 and you may increase any two additional ability 
scores by 1.
Adventuring Age  – 16-30. Men of the Lake don’t usually 
become adventurers before their 16th year of age, and rarely 
continue beyond their forties, when they retire to serve their 
family and folk.
Size – Most Men of the Lake stand between 5 and 6 feet 
tall. Your size is Medium.
Speed – Your base walking speed is 30 feet.
Natural Born Traders – You have proficiency in the 
Persuasion skill.
Starting Virtue – You gain one Men of the Lake Cultural 
Virtue of your choice.
Languages – You can speak, read, and write Dalish – an 
archaic version of the Common Speech.

--- PAGE 52 ---
Adventures in Middle-earth
52
O Gondor, Gondor! Shall Men behold the Silver Tree,
Or West Wind blow again between the Mountains and the Sea?”
Clear and cold about the tower its loud horn calls
The city of Minas Tirith has stood for thousands of years as a beacon of hope for 
the Free Peoples of Middle-earth. But in the twilight of the Third Age the gleam 
of the White Tower is only caught in the brightest light of a summer’s day. 
The Tower of the Setting Sun has become the Tower of Guard, the 
last bulwark against Mordor. The White Tree that blossomed in 
the court of the citadel is long withered. Stewards rule the city, 
for a king has not sat on the throne for many generations of 
Men. These are the waning years of Gondor, and the kingdom 
stands upon the edge of a knife, suspended between hope and 
despair.
Yet still the Lords of Minas Tirith defy their enemies, guarding the passages 
of the Great River from Argonath to the Sea. And their struggle is bitter. 
The guards of the Citadel have only to look East to see Minas Morgul, the 
dreaded Tower of Sorcery, rising in a cleft in the Mountains of Shadow, 
and along the road leading to it, the ruins of their abandoned capital city, 
Osgiliath. The Men of Minas Tirith know that to falter in their vigilance 
is to invite disaster to all they hold dear. 
But this unceasing watchfulness has a price. Once, the Dúnedain of 
the South were deemed to be wiser than other Men, excelling in skill 
and knowledge. Today, the Men of Minas Tirith value prowess and 
the craft of weapons above all else, forgetting that in the treasuries 
of the city much ancient lore is preserved by long tradition. But 
such is the need of their days, for the Shadow in the East is stirring, 
and the power of the Black Land is sleeping no more.
- Men of Minas Tirith -

--- PAGE 53 ---
Cultures
53
Description
The Men of Minas Tirith are the descendants in the South 
of the Men of the West, the sea-kings who built the city in 
the time of the two kingdoms of Arnor and Gondor. The 
wisdom and beauty that Elendil brought out of the West 
endured here long, but the line of the kings finally died 
out, leaving the Stewards who followed them to recruit the 
strength of their people among other folks. 
Today, the inhabitants of Minas Tirith are Men of the 
Twilight, tall and fair warriors with memories of ancient 
things.
The people of Minas Tirith dress in a manner that can be 
considered rich by outsiders. They favour fur-lined cloaks, 
fine-woven garments in a diverse array of fabrics, and 
accessories simple in design but precious in materials, 
like collars and rings of silver or gold, set with precious 
stones. 
Men of Minas Tirith Names
The Men of Minas Tirith traditionally name their sons and 
daughters using the Sindarin tongue.
Male Names: Adrahil, Amlaith, Anardil, Anárion, 
Anborn, Angbor, Arador, Araglas, Aragorn, Aragost, 
Arahad, Arahael, Aranarth, Arannel, Aranuir, Araphant, 
Araphor, Arassuil, Arathorn, Araval, Aravir, Aravorn, 
Argeleb, Argonui, Arvedui, Arvegil, Arveleg, Baranor, 
Belecthor, Beleg, Belegorn, Beregond, Beren, Bergil, 
Boromir, Celepharn, Cirion, Damrod, Denethor, Derufin, 
Dervorin, Dírhael, Duilin, Duinhir, Ecthelion, Egalmoth, 
Eldacar, Eradan, Faramir, Findegil, Finduilas, Forlong, 
Golasgil, Halbarad, Hallas, Hirgon, Hirluin, Húrin, 
Ingold, Iorlas, Mablung, Malbeth, Malvegil, Ohtar, 
Orodreth, Thorondir, Thorongil, Turgon.
Female Names: Gilraen, Ioreth, Ivorwen, Lothíriel, 
Morwen.
Standard of Living
Gondor remains rich with the wealth of trade, and 
although the Steward directs much of its resources towards 
preparing for war, its people live comfortably. Because of 
this the Men of Minas Tirith are considered a Prosperous 
culture. 
Bonus Equipment: A black travelling cloak, travelling 
gear for the current season, a bedroll, a backpack or 
saddlebags, comfortable boots, 5d6 silver pennies, plus 
choose any two: a hunting horn, ink and parchment, a 
whetstone for sword-sharpening, artisan’s tools, a silver 
brooch depicting the White Tree. 
Men of Minas Tirith Traits
Your Player-hero has certain traits deriving from your 
Gondorian ancestry. 
Ability Score Increase – Your Intelligence score increases 
by 1 and you may increase any two additional ability 
scores by 1.
Adventuring age -  16 to 40. The Men of Minas Tirith 
don’t usually become adventurers before their 16th year 
of age, and rarely continue beyond their forties, when they 
return to their cities to serve their family and Steward.
Size – Most Men of Minas Tirith stand between 5 and 6 
feet tall. Your size is Medium.
Speed – Your base walking speed is 30 feet.
Proud Heritage – You are proficient in the History skill.
Starting Virtue – You gain one Men of Minas Tirith 
Cultural Virtue of your choice.
Languages – You can speak, read, and write both 
Sindarin and Westron, the Common Tongue.

--- PAGE 54 ---
Adventures in Middle-earth
54
Cultures
“Where now is the horse and the rider? Where is the horn that was blowing? 
Where is the helm and the hauberk, and the bright hair flowing?”
Fear No Darkness
Peerless horsemen who came from the North long 
ago to answer Gondor’s call for aid, the Riders of 
Rohan roam the vast grasslands of their home 
on magnificent steeds whom they love as kin. 
The Men of the Mark are a generous folk, but 
when war is upon them then they are as fell to 
their enemies as they are loyal to their friends. 
When the lust of battle is on them they can 
appear as men stricken with grief, their 
faces deathly white, or as madmen ready 
to laugh at despair.
The great plains to the north of the realm of 
Gondor were once known as Calenardhon 
before the Steward Cirion granted them to a 
Northman, Eorl the Young, as a reward for 
his aid and valour on the Field of Celebrant. 
Its borders stretch from the Fords of Isen in 
the west to the Mouths of the Entwash in 
the east. 
Rolling hills and golden grain fields are 
broken to the south only by the White 
Mountains where the fortress of Helm’s 
Deep lies, and to the north by the ancient Fangorn 
Forest where even the courageous Riders of the Mark 
do not go. 
- Riders of Rohan -

--- PAGE 55 ---
Cultures
55
Description
The men and women of the Riddermark are warlike, fair 
and tall, most often with golden hair and light eyes. Darker 
hair and eyes are not unknown, though uncommon, 
and such features are at times looked down upon. They 
are deemed the signs of Dunlending ancestry, who are 
regarded with suspicion by the Rohirrim. Both men and 
women grow their hair long and often tie it in long braids, 
especially when riding. 
While devoted to warfare in all its forms, the Riders of 
Rohan embrace life to its fullest, celebrating all its positive 
aspects in song and deed, and mourning their passing in 
sadness when forgetfulness and old age approach. Famed 
throughout Middle-earth for their horsemanship, they are 
equally feared for their prowess in battle, for their skills 
are formidable and they sing when they kill.
Names of the Riders of Rohan
The Rohirrim revere their ancestors and forebears, and 
many of them are named after notable heroes or past kings 
of their people. More often than not they are known by 
just a single name, sometimes with a surname referencing 
their father (“Grimson”) or their home (“of Westfold”). 
Sometimes they will have a more prosaic surname, based 
on some deed or misfortune (such as “Hammerhand,” 
“the Old,” “Wormtongue”). 
They place as much care and attention in naming their 
steeds as their children, although their horses are often 
named rather more descriptively than their offspring. 
Male Names: Aldor, Baldor, Brego, Brytta, Ceorl, Déor, 
Déorwine, Dernhelm, Dúnhere, Elfhelm, Eofor, Éomund, 
Eorl, Éothain, Erkenbrand, Fastred, Fengel, Folca, 
Folcwine, Folcred, Folda, Fréa, Fréawine, Freca, Gálmód, 
Gamling, Gárulf, Gléowine, Goldwine, Gram, Grim, 
Gríma, Grimbold, Guthláf, Háma, Harding, Helm, 
Herefara, Herubrand, Horn, Théoden, Wídfara, Wulf. 
Female Names: Elfhild, Éowyn, Hild, Théodwyn. 
Horse Names: Arod, Hasufel, Felaróf, Firefoot, 
Shadowfax, Snowmane, Windfola.
Standard of Living
The Rohirrim are a simple folk, content with tending their 
beasts and fields, and with breeding their horses. They 
welcome strangers who come to their land in peace, but 
above all they desire to be free and live without serving 
Adventures in Middle-earth

--- PAGE 56 ---
Adventures in Middle-earth
56
any foreign lord. As a consequence, they are ready to 
rise up in arms when they are threatened, and can be 
considered to belong to a Martial culture.
Bonus Equipment: A riding horse, brightly coloured 
travelling cloak, travelling gear for the current season, a 
backpack or saddlebags, a belt dagger, boots, 2d6 silver 
pennies, plus choose any one: a chess set, a drinking 
horn, an ornate helmet, a decorative cloak-clasp, a 
bronze arm-band.
Riders of Rohan Traits
Your Player-hero has certain traits deriving from your 
Rohirric ancestry. 
Ability Score Increase – Your Wisdom score increases by 
1 and you may increase two additional ability scores by 1.
Adventuring Age – 16-30. The Riders of Rohan don’t 
usually become adventurers before their 16th year of age, 
when they are considered to be adults, and rarely continue 
beyond their forties when thoughts turn to looking after 
hearth and home.
Size – The Riders of Rohan, men and women, are generally 
tall. Generally well over 5 feet and often above 6 feet. Your 
size is Medium.
Speed – Your base walking speed is 30 feet.
Horse Lords – You have proficiency in the Animal 
Handling skill.
Starting Virtue – You gain one Riders of Rohan Cultural 
Virtue of your choice.
Languages – You can speak the tongue of Rohan which is 
loosely related to the tongue of the Anduin Vales. You can 
also speak Westron and easily make yourself understood 
in accented Sindarin.

--- PAGE 57 ---
Cultures
57
- Woodmen of Wilderland -
“There were many of them, and they were brave and well armed, and even the Wargs dared not attack 
them if there were many together, or in the bright  day.”
Against the Shadow
Almost two thousand years ago, a shadow crept from the South and slowly 
drew all light from the heart of Greenwood the Great to its farthest eaves. 
People began calling the forest Mirkwood, and learnt 
to fear its deepest recesses. In spite of the darkness, 
many lingered along the forest’s borders, 
fearless sons of Men who defied the menace of 
the Necromancer in his dreaded abode. These 
Woodmen have fought the growing darkness 
for as long as their oldest tellers of tales can 
remember, and they will continue the fight 
now that the Shadow has deserted its lair.
The Woodmen of Wilderland are frontiersmen of the 
North, having a shared ancestry with the Bardings. 
They live in sparse, isolated villages and homesteads 
surrounded by wooden stockades, built along the borders 
of the great forest, or in the valleys to the west of the river. 
Threatened by the shadow of Dol Guldur and what lurks 
in the depths of Mirkwood, the Woodmen are hunters and 
trackers of wild animals, battling Orcs and Spiders in 
self-defence.
Traditionally, women fight and hunt alongside 
their men, or even alone if unmarried or 
widowed, in their struggle to survive in the hostile 
environment. The Wizard Radagast, one of the 
Wise of Middle-earth, has chosen to live amongst 
the Woodmen since time immemorial, taking residence 
in Rhosgobel. A master of shapes and a tender of beasts, his 
teachings have proven invaluable to the hunters and animal-
tamers among the Woodmen.

--- PAGE 58 ---
Adventures in Middle-earth
58
Description
As all Men of the North, they are commonly light-haired 
and tall, but often brown-skinned with a little red in their 
cheeks thanks to a life in the open. Sometimes deemed 
surly of speech and unforthcoming by other folk, they are 
rangers and hunters, haters of Orcs and Spiders, skilled 
in fighting in the deep of the woods with bows of yew, 
stout spears, and long-hafted axes. They were once skilful 
tamers of steeds and hunting dogs, but their life under the 
Shadow has forced them to mostly abandon the training 
of horses, and to favour that of hounds.
Woodmen Names
The Northmen inhabiting the Vales of the Anduin River – 
the Beornings and Woodmen – speak the same language 
and share a common vocabulary of personal names. The 
two folk favour different names, but are set apart by their 
peculiar use of bynames and nicknames.
The Woodmen do not show particular preferences, but 
it is a common practice among adventurers to keep their 
real name a secret, preferring to let themselves be known 
only by a nickname (the Bride, the Hound).
Male Names: Adalard, Ageric, Agilfrid, Agiulf, Alaric, 
Alberic, Amalric, Amand, Andagis, Atalaric, Atanagild, 
Ansegisel, Ansovald, Aregisel, Arnulf, Audovald, Avagis, 
Badegisel, Baldac, Balderic, Barald, Beorn, Beran, 
Beranald, Berangar, Bertefried, Beormud, Cilderic, 
Eberulf, Eboric, Ebregisel, Ebrimuth, Ediulf, Ermanaric, 
Euric, Eutaric, Evermud, Evoric, Frideger, Gararic, 
Garivald, Geberic, Gisalric, Gerold, Grimald, Grimbald, 
Grimbeorn, Grimfast, Gundovald, Hartgard, Hartmut, 
Hartnid, Hathus, Heriwulf, Hildebald, Imnachar, 
Ingelram, Ingund, Iwald, Iwgar, Leudast, Magneric, 
Malaric, Maracar, Merovech, Munderic, Odo, Odovacar, 
Otbert, Ragnacar, Ramnulf, Rathar, Reginar, Ricfried, 
Rigunth, Roderic, Sigeric, Sigibert, Sunnegisil, Theodard, 
Theodebert, Theodemir, Theodwin, Theudebald, 
Theuderic, Thorismund, Walcaud, Waleran,Widuven, 
Willicar, Wulferd.
Female Names: Adosinda, Amalfrida, Amalina, 
Avagisa, Avina, Beranhild, Brunihild, Gailavira, 
Garsendis, Geleswinta, Gelvira, Grimhild, Hermesind, 
Heva, Hilduara, Radegund.
Woodman Nicknames: The Bird-keeper, the Bowman, 
the Bride, the Bright one, the Eagle, the Healer, the 
Hound, the Hunter, the Quick, the Shepherd, the Shield-
bearer, the Silent one, the Spear-shaker, the Wood-goer.
Standard of Living
The Woodmen carve a living out of meagre hunts, 
burning charcoal and breeding animals. Their constant 
fight with the Wood and its wild things leaves them 
struggling to do more than simply survive. Their culture 
ranks as Frugal.
Bonus Equipment: A travelling cloak, travelling gear for 
the current season, a belt dagger, 2d6 silver pennies, plus 
choose any one:  a basket of berries, a hunting trap, a 
hand-carved gaming set, a decorative leather armband or 
choker. 
Woodmen of Wilderland Traits
Your Player-hero has certain traits deriving from your 
Woodman ancestry. 
Ability Score Increase – Your Dexterity score increases 
by 1 and you may increase two additional ability scores 
by 1.
Adventuring Age – 16-30. Woodmen don’t usually 
become adventurers before their 16th year of age, and 
rarely continue beyond their forties, when they retire to 
serve their family and folk.
Size – Most Woodmen stand between 5 and 6 feet tall. 
Your size is Medium.
Speed – Your base walking speed is 30 feet.
Woodcrafty – You have proficiency in the Survival skill.
Virtue – You gain one Woodmen of Wilderland Cultural 
Virtue of your choice.
Languages – You can speak the Vale of Anduin Tongue – 
an archaic version of the Common Speech, closely related 
to Dalish.

--- PAGE 59 ---
Cultures
59

--- PAGE 61 ---
Glóin, my old friend. 
 
Our great work proceeds apace. The walls of Dale are stronger now 
than they have ever been. I am once again in your debt. The masons 
you sent have worked tirelessly. 
 
I wanted to tell you the latest news concerning the matter we spoke of 
at Dragontide.  As agreed I have sent out a call across the North to 
those prepared to risk life and limb to help us restore all that was once 
lost. 
 
Word has carried way beyond the Eastern Eaves and into the Misty 
Mountains, if all I hear is to be believed.  And they have come! Brave 
souls are travelling from far and wide to aid us.  
 
Some come simply for gold, some for the chance of a new start here in 
the lands hereabouts. Others seem driven by nobler purpose – leaders 
of Men, and those who would defend their people. I have heard tell 
of those, not unlike you and your kin when first we met, who seek to 
regain what they have lost in the dark times.  
 
Some in their number thirst after knowledge almost as much as 
others seek gold. I met a second Hobbit who is writing a book about 
Dwarves! He claims distant kinship with Bilbo, and you must speak 
to him on your return.  
 
Some of these adventurers have just followed where so ever the road 
has led them, now that the roads are again safe to travel.  Lake-town 
is so busy! Trade is pouring in, and our coffers are refilling after all 
the rebuilding work.  
 
Hurry back to Dale when you can. Yet more news has reached my 
ears from the South of Mirkwood and I would discuss it with you. 
 
Your friend,
 
Bard
Classes

--- PAGE 62 ---
Adventures in Middle-earth
62
The six classes in this chapter describe six ways that the 
Free Folk can fight back against the encroaching Shadow. 
The Scholar uncovers the secrets of the past, and is wise 
in lore. The Warden kindles the spirits of allies, and 
guards the hearth-fire. The Wanderer travels the wide and 
lonely world, bringing news from one settlement to the 
next. The Slayer fights mostly alone, or in the company 
of fellow warriors, while the Warrior rallies allies. The 
Treasure Hunter, meanwhile, reclaims that which has 
been taken by servants of the Enemy. Each class gives 
mastery over certain weapons and skills, as well as other 
unique talents.
Class
Description
Hit Dice
Primary 
Ability
Saving 
Throw 
Proficiencies
Armour & 
Weapon 
Proficiencies
Scholar
A learned expert and 
master of the healing 
arts.
d8
Intelligence
Intelligence, 
Wisdom
Light armour, 
simple weapons
Slayer
A savage and doughty 
warrior. Slayers are 
more associated with 
barbaric or martial 
cultures.
d12
Strength
Strength, 
Constitution
Light armour, 
medium armour,  
shields, simple 
weapons, martial 
weapons
Treasure 
Hunter
Or burglar, to less polite 
people.
d8
Dexterity
Dexterity, 
Intelligence
Light armour, 
Simple weapons, 
one-handed swords
Wanderer
An experienced traveller, 
the Wanderer is most at 
home on the Road or in 
the lonely wilderness.
d10
Constitution
Strength, 
Constitution
Light armour, 
medium armour, 
shields, simple 
weapons, martial 
weapons
Warden
Brave in spirit, the 
Warden helps others 
rise up against the 
Enemy.
d8
Charisma
Dexterity, 
Charisma
Light armour, 
simple weapons, 
one-handed swords
Warrior
A stalwart and 
disciplined fighter, 
associated with rich and 
civilised cultures. 
d10
Strength or 
Dexterity
Strength, 
Constitution
All armour, shields, 
simple weapons, 
martial weapons
- Classes -
“May it be a sign that though the world is now dark better days are at hand, and friendship 
shall be renewed between our peoples.”

--- PAGE 63 ---
Classes
63
- Scholar -
‘Speak no secrets! Here is a scholar in the 
Ancient Tongue.’
For you, knowledge makes the Wild a less threatening 
place. Strangers become friends if addressed properly, 
yellowed maps in old books replace a fear of the unknown 
with curiosity and wonder of places you have yet to 
explore, songs composed in ages past strengthen the 
weariest of hearts. A love of learning guides your every 
step and illuminates the way for you and those who listen 
to your advice.
A Scholar is always learned, always wise, but learning 
takes many forms. In civilised lands and civilised times, 
Scholars gather books of lore and pore over rustling 
parchments. In Wilderland, in rustic communities or in 
times of war and want, a Scholar might be a master of 
folk-lore and secrets passed from teacher to apprentice 
over long years. 
Many Scholars are also healers, for a knowledge of herb-
lore and the healing arts is perhaps the most useful (and, 
some would say, most respectable) field of study. 
The most important thing to keep in mind when creating 
your Scholar is to think of where and how you gained your 
knowledge. Did you study under a master, learning as an 
apprentice? Is your Scholar a dabbler, flitting from one 
obsession to another, or do you learn all there is to know 
about one field of lore before moving on? 
Finally, why have you left your home to take on a 
dangerous life as an adventurer?
Play a Scholar if you want to…
• 
Uncover ancient secrets and use their power against 
the Enemy.
• 
Master the art of healing and restore your injured 
friends to full health.
• 
Be admitted into the councils of the Wise, and know 
much that is hidden.
Class Features
As a Scholar, you gain the following class features.
Hit Points
Hit Dice: 1d8 per Scholar level
Hit Points at 1st Level: 8 + your Constitution modifier
Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d8 (or 5) + your Constitution 
modifier per Scholar level after 1st.
Proficiencies
Armour: Light armour
Weapons: All simple weapons
Tools: Herbalism kit, a choice of artisan’s tools or a pipe
Saving Throws: Intelligence, Wisdom
Skills: Medicine, Lore plus choose one from History, Riddle, 
Traditions, Insight, Investigation, Nature, Perception and 
Survival.
Equipment
You start with the following extra equipment, in addition 
to equipment granted by your Standard of Living.

--- PAGE 64 ---
Adventures in Middle-earth
64
• 
A simple weapon
• 
A leather jerkin
Prosperous or Rich Scholars also begin with ink and 
parchment.
Shadow Weakness
Lure of Secrets
The Scholar
Level
Proficiency 
Bonus
Features
1
+2
Hands of a Healer, News 
from Afar, Tongues of 
Many Peoples
2
+2
The Path of Wisdom
3
+2
Speciality
4
+2
Character Improvement
5
+3
Webs of Deceit
6
+3
Shadow of the Past
7
+3
Speciality Feature
8
+3
Character Improvement
9
+4
Physician
10
+4
Speciality Feature
11
+4
Hidden Paths
12
+4
Character Improvement
13
+5
Hope Unlooked-For
14
+5
Speciality Feature
15
+5
Habits of the Wise
16
+5
Character Improvement
17
+6
Words Unspoken
18
+6
Speciality Feature
19
+6
Character Improvement
20
+6
Great Among The Wise
Hands of a Healer
You know how to treat wounds and illness and poison. 
You have a pool of healing tricks and techniques that 
replenishes when you take a short rest. You have one 
Healing Die (1d8) per level in the Scholar class.
If you can touch a creature, you may expend one Healing 
Die per action, instantly granting them hit points equal 
to 1d8 plus your wisdom modifier, up to their maximum. 
If instead you tend the creature for at least 10 minutes, 
binding their wounds, treating them with herbs and 
poultices, and offering soothing words, then you may 
multiply the 1d8 by your proficiency modifier. Then add 
your Wisdom modifier.
Alternatively, you can spend a Healing Die to cure one 
disease, neutralize one poison, or remove one condition 
affecting a single target. Conditions are removed instantly, 
but poisons and diseases require the creature to take a 
long rest before they are removed. 
The types of conditions you can cure are limited when 
you first gain this feature. You can remove the Frightened, 
Paralysed, Stunned, or Unconscious conditions. At higher 
levels you can cure other conditions, described below.
News from Afar
You know many things that are hidden from most and 
tidings of distant events tend to reach you with astonishing 
speed. The source of your knowledge is obscure and you 
do not explain how you know the things you do to others 
– it is enough that what you know is true. 
At the start of each adventuring phase or after spending 
time in a Sanctuary, the Loremaster should inform you 
of one or two events of importance occurring somewhere 
in Wilderland. 
Scholars always know a little bit about everything and 
the Loremaster should regularly give you rumours or 
information based on your appropriate Passive ability 
checks. For more clarity you can always make an active 
ability check to learn more about a person, place, or 
event. Once per Adventuring Phase  you can add +5 to one 
of these active ability checks.
Tongues of Many Peoples
You know a little of many languages. You can hold a simple 
conversation in any of the tongues of Men or Elves, and 
know a few common phrases in the tongues of the other

--- PAGE 65 ---
Classes
65
peoples – enough to offer a greeting, shout a warning, or 
insult someone.  
The Path of Wisdom 
At 2nd level choose either Medicine and one skill 
proficiency, or Medicine and proficiency with a herbalism 
kit. Your proficiency bonus is doubled for any ability 
checks that use either of your choices. 
Whenever you gain a new skill proficiency, you may move 
your doubled proficiency bonus to the new skill, to reflect 
your change of focus.
Speciality
At 3rd level you choose a speciality that determines the 
focus of your study. Choose Master Healer or Master 
Scholar (both are detailed at the end of the class 
description). The speciality you choose grants you features 
at 3rd level, and again at 7th, 10th, 14th and 18th level. 
Character Improvement
When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th 
and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your 
choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your 
choice by 1, or you can take a Cultural or Open Virtue. 
As normal, you cannot increase an ability score above 20 
using this feature.
Webs of Deceit
At 5th level, your insight and learning is sufficient to 
manipulate others with well-timed words (or theatrics 
and cheap tricks). At the start of any interaction, you may 
make an Wisdom (Insight) test against a DC of 15 + the 
target’s Wisdom modifier. If successful, then at any point 
in the conversation, you may gain advantage on any one 
skill check through your scholarship and preparation. 
You might, for example, make a cryptic reference to some 
secret known only to a few people, or remind the person

--- PAGE 66 ---
Adventures in Middle-earth
66
you’re talking to about the deeds of their forefathers, or 
raise your staff to dramatically startle a flock of crows 
to underline your words. You might palm a firework, or 
arrive in just the nick of time.
Shadow of the Past
At 6th level, you find deeper meaning in the long history 
of Middle-earth. If you remind another Player-hero of a 
relevant tale from the history of their people, then that 
character gains one Scholarly Inspiration die, a d6, which 
they may use to add to any roll. Once you have used this 
feature, you cannot use it again until you have taken a 
long rest.
Physician
At 9th level your use of the Hands of a Healer feature 
improves to cover a greater number of conditions. Now 
you can cure Blinded, Charmed or Deafened conditions. 
Additionally, by expending an additional Healing Die, you 
may remove the Petrified condition or a level of exhaustion. 
Hidden Paths
At 11th level, your mastery of lore is such that you know of 
secret paths, alternative routes and hidden entrances and 
passageways in the most unlikely of places. You may grant 
advantage to an ally on any one ability check related to 
one of the journey roles (Guide, Scout, Hunter or Look-
Out) by describing how your knowledge of obscure places 
and secret lore aids you. For example, you might lead the 
Company down a hidden valley when serving as Guide, 
or discover a secret dwarf-door as a Scout.
The paths you take often have their own perils or 
encounters; often, this ability takes you out of the frying 
pan and into the fire. You may only use this ability once 
per Adventuring phase. 
Hope Unlooked-For
At 13th level, you may make preparations in advance 
and only reveal them when the time is right. Once per 
Adventuring phase, you may activate this ability and 
describe actions you took in the past that were unknown 
to the rest of the player-heroes, but that have now come 
to light. You must then make a suitable skill check to 
determine how successful these preparations were. 
The Loremaster is entitled to veto any unreasonable 
suggestions. 
Example uses of this ability might include:
• 
“I found this ancient map on another adventure, and 
I reveal it now.”
• 
“I sent word to our allies in Rohan a week ago, and 
they are going to arrive to bolster our defences just 
before the Orcs attack.”
• 
“I guessed the King would imprison us, which is why I 
bribed the jailer a week ago to hide a key behind this 
loose brick.”
• 
“I just happened to bring along these fireworks.”
Habits of the Wise
At 15th level, your learning is such that you know there are 
few who can understand your concerns and worries, and 
so you must look to yourself for wise counsel. You may 
spend Inspiration to gain another use of a feature that 
typically requires a long rest before you can use it again, 
or is usable only once per Adventuring phase. Habits of 
the Wise is itself only usable once per Adventuring phase. 
Words Unspoken
At 17th level, you may convey your thoughts without 
speaking aloud. When dealing with high-level Scholars, 
Elves, Dúnedain or other folk of power, you may hold a 
full conversation, speaking mind to mind. Others have 
a sense or intuition of your words, but cannot reply, and 
may misinterpret your thoughts as their own. You cannot 
read the minds of others with this ability.
Once per long rest, you may send brief snatches of your 
thought over great distances, conveying a single word or 
short message in dreams. 
Great among the Wise
At 20th level, your knowledge on one subject approaches 
absolute and the Wise widely recognise you as the pre-
eminent authority on matters pertaining to your chosen 
lore. Choose one Intelligence or Wisdom skill – you 
automatically succeed at all ability checks using that skill.
Additionally, you may spend Inspiration to learn 
something completely hidden about your chosen lore. 
Whether by shrewd guess or seemingly chance insight, 
you learn a useful secret that most could have no way of 
knowing. You must take a long rest in a Sanctuary before 
you use this feature again.

--- PAGE 67 ---
Classes
67
Scholar Specialities
"I once knew every spell in all the tongues of Elves or Men 
or Orcs that was ever used for such a purpose. I can still 
remember ten score of them without searching in my mind."
Even the Wise cannot see all ends, or master every branch 
of lore. There are always more secrets to discover, and so a 
Scholar must choose a field of study to specialise in. 
Master Healer
You have studied anatomy, physiology and all manner 
of curative arts. You know how to use healing herbs and 
poultices, how to let blood to purge a wound and how to 
bind one, and how to fight sicknesses that assail the spirit 
as well as the body.
Improved Healing
When you choose this speciality at 3rd level you become 
an expert at treating injuries. Whenever you use the 
Hands of a Healer feature to restore hit points, you roll 
2d8 in place of 1d8.
Healing Lores
Also at 3rd level, you make a discovery in your quest 
to understand the mind and body. You gain another 
discovery at 7th, 10th, 14th and 18th levels. 
When you learn a new discovery you may also replace 
one discovery you already know with a different one. 
Choose from the following discoveries.
Healing Herbs
You have studied herb-lore in great depth, and know secret 
techniques to cure illness and poison. A creature now only 
needs a short rest to recover from disease or poison when 
you use your Hands of a Healer feature.
In addition, you have learned far more than the common 
uses of healing herbs and are capable of using them in 
more potent forms, or in new ways. When using medicinal 
herbs, use these effects instead of the normal effects of the 
herb.
• 
Athelas: Burned into a powder and then boiled, this 
herb produces a cloud of vapour that removes a level 
of exhaustion from a number of creatures equal to 
your Scholar level.
	
• 
Hagweed: Ground into a paste, dried and smoked in 
a pipe, hagweed eases the spirit and cures 1 Shadow 
point. A Master Healer can only cure 1 Shadow point 
using hagweed per year. 
	
• 
Kingcup: A poultice of kingcup applied to a poisoned 
wound draws the poison out and heals any damage 
the poison has caused. 
	
• 
Reedmace: Dried, powdered and inhaled, reedmace 
allows a person to stay awake and aware for three 
days without the need for sleep or food. After that, the 
Player-hero gains two levels of exhaustion.
	
• 
Shadow-thorn: Once double brewed and strained, 
shadow-thorn produces a wet residue of plant matter 
that can be used to perfectly mask a creature’s scent, 
giving them advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) ability 
checks for three days.

--- PAGE 68 ---
Adventures in Middle-earth
68
• 
Water-lily: If dried and ground into a fine powder, 
white water-lily can be baked into sweet cakes. These 
cakes invigorate and revivify, allowing a single person 
to gain the advantages of a long rest while taking a 
short rest. 
If boiled down to a syrup, red water-lily creates a 
potent but evil-smelling liquid. Few who know of this 
use readily produce this remedy, for while it does grant 
the Player-hero +2 to attack and damage rolls for an 
hour, it also generates a red anger and 1 Shadow point.
Healer’s Staunching Song
The words of this song and its special tune can help 
wounds close and help heal injuries. Once you have 
learned this song, during a short rest you may perform 
it for a number of companions equal to your Scholar 
levels. Those benefiting from this song may each recover 
one of their Hit Dice worth of damage + their Constitution 
modifier without expending any of their Hit Dice. 
Friend to All
A Master Healer is welcome nearly everywhere, and even 
bitter foes will hesitate to attack such a person. Your 
reputation and skill precedes you. You gain advantage on 
any rolls to convince a person to give you shelter or food for 
a night. Additionally, if you do not make an attack during 
combat, intelligent foes that do not serve the Shadow will 
not attack you. However, you have sworn to use your skills 
to help all who need your aid, so refusing or neglecting to 
treat any potential patient counts as a Misdeed for you. 
Additionally, if you do not have it already, gain proficiency 
in the Traditions skill.
Softer Underneath
Your studies of the anatomy of various creatures and 
beings have granted you an intimate knowledge of their 
weaknesses. If you spend an action studying a target, you 
gain an additional damage die that may be applied to 
a single attack from you or a companion that hits the 
creature. This die is a d6 at 3rd level, and increases to a 
d8 at 6th, a d10 at 12th, and a d12 at 20th level. 
Relief from Long Burdens
You have learned how to heal even the wounds of the 
heart and mind. If you spend a long rest doing nothing 
but resting and talking with a willing creature, you may 
remove a Shadow point from that creature. The number 
of Shadow points healed increases to two points at 10th 
level and three points at 20th level. You cannot use this 
ability on yourself, nor can another Master Healer so 
assist you.
The Weapons of the Enemy
You know how to counteract the various poisons Orcs use. 
You can cure certain terrible wounds inflicted by the evil 
spells or weapons of the Enemy, such as Morgul-knives or 
the Black Breath of the Nazgûl.  Additionally, if you do not 
have it already, gain proficiency in the Shadow-lore skill.
House of the Healer
At 14th level, if you reside in a place for more than a year, 
it becomes a Sanctuary as long as you remain there. Once 
you leave, this blessing persists for one month per Scholar 
level. 
Seen and Unseen
Once you reach 18th level, even if you have never been 
there, the light of the Blessed Realm shines in your eyes. 
You have advantage on all tests against Corruption, and 
can see invisible creatures and spirits. 
Master Scholar
You have studied ancient books and scrolls in the treasured 
libraries of the great cities, or you learned rhymes of lore 
and secrets unwritten from some older master. You know 
much that is hidden or lost.
Bonus Proficiency
When you choose this speciality at 3rd level, you gain 
proficiency in a single Intelligence or Wisdom skill of your 
choice.
Secret Lores
Also at 3rd level, you learn one branch of obscure or 
hidden lore. You gain another secret at 7th , 10th, 14th 
and 18th levels.
Choose from the following secrets.
Ancient Lore
Your knowledge stretches back to the Elder Days. You 
know the names of the Two Trees, the Tale of the Three 
Jewels and the terror of the Great Enemy Morgoth. You’ve

--- PAGE 69 ---
Classes
69
heard the tales of the Elven Kingdoms of Beleriand, now 
lost beneath the sea, and the stolen halls of the Dwarf 
Lords, and you know of the rise and fall of the Dúnedain. 
You may make Intelligence (History) ability checks without 
penalty regarding ancient matters. 
Additionally, if you do not have it already, gain proficiency 
with History. 
Birds & Beasts
You have learned the secret speech of a specific breed of 
animal, such as the speech of eagles or foxes. You can 
communicate with them using skills such as Deception, 
Insight, Intimidation and Persuasion. Animals may be 
persuaded to carry messages, spy on areas or even lead a 
Master Scholar to food and water. 
The communication is limited to the knowledge of the 
animal in question and animals tend to care only about the 
things of their world, such as food, shelter and predators, 
paying little attention to the goings-on of larger creatures; 
however, a great deal of knowledge can be gleaned from 
their speech, and while a songbird might not be able to tell 
an Orc from a Hobbit, she will note which is despoiling 
the forest. 
You may choose this secret a second time. If you do, your 
knowledge expands from a specific breed to all creatures of 
a similar kind and you gain Advantage on your Charisma 
skills regarding them. For example, when you first select 
this secret, you learn the hooting speech of owls; with your 
second, you learn the tongues of all birds and gain their 
favour.
Dark Knowledge
Dark and terrible is the lore of the Enemy and you, 
perhaps, know more of it than is safe. Upon selecting 
this secret, you learn the Black Speech of Mordor and 
can make ability checks about information regarding the 
Shadow and its followers without penalty. Additionally, 
if you do not already possess it, gain proficiency with 
Shadow-lore. 
Finally, when you learn this Secret, you gain 4 Shadow 
points.
Natural World
You know the secret properties of many plants, for good 
and ill, readily identifying natural poisons. You can tell if 
a beast is natural or not just by looking at it. While you 
may not have met them, you know of the existence of the 
Shepherds of the Trees, the Ents of Fangorn Forest. With 
a successful DC 15 Intelligence (Nature) ability check 
you can correctly identify a Blighted area, and can guess 
roughly what caused it to become blighted. If you travel 
through an area whose blight you successfully deduced, 
you have advantage on your Wisdom saving throw against 
Corruption. 
In addition, if you do have it already, gain proficiency with 
the Nature skill. 
Runes 
You know the secrets of reading old runes, from the ancient 
Tengwar to the Alphabet of Daeron – the Angerthas Moria. 
You are adept at finding lore hidden within cunning texts 
and have advantage on Intelligence (Lore) ability checks 
regarding all such matters.

--- PAGE 70 ---
Adventures in Middle-earth
70
Finally, you can automatically discern where Dwarven 
moon-letters have been inscribed (though you cannot 
read them without the correct moon!). 
Works of Elder Days
You know of the wondrous creations of the Elven-smiths 
of Eregion and the other great smiths and craftsmen of 
yore, and know some of the ways their works can be 
employed by those with the right knowledge. You can 
identify the properties of wondrous artefacts by making 
a DC 15 Intelligence (Investigation) ability check. On a 
success, you can identify one Blessing and make a decent 
guess at other abilities that might be hidden within such 
an item. 
In addition, gain proficiency in three artisan’s tools of 
your choice. 
Deep Knowledge
At 14th level, your accumulated knowledge over the years 
has given you bits and pieces about people, locations, 
objects and events that you are likely to encounter. 
Much of this information is stored in your head, but even 
more is contained in scrolls and books that you have 
access to, as well as others among the Wise whose counsel 
you can ask for.
When you first encounter a person, object, location or 
event, you may ask the Loremaster three questions about 
it, for which they will provide truthful answers. If you do 
so, in addition to the lore you learn, you have advantage 
on any subsequent ability checks directly regarding 
that person, object, location or event for the rest of the 
Adventuring phase. Due to the sometimes intense nature 
of recalling such information, you may not use this feature 
again until you have taken a long rest in a Sanctuary.
Words of Command
At 18th level, your mastery of lore gives you authority 
over the world around you. Once per short rest you may 
speak a word of command. When you do so, choose a 
target related to one of the secrets you have mastered and 
make the appropriate skill check against a DC set by the 
Loremaster (typically at least a DC 20). If successful, you 
may give a short but irresistible command to your target. 
For example:
• 
Ancient Lore: Command a door made by the Elves 
of Eregion to open.
• 
Birds and Beasts: Order a fearsome wolf to fly back 
to its den.
• 
Dark Knowledge: Command a wraith to return to 
its tomb.
• 
Natural World: Order a pile of firewood to burst 
into flame.
• 
Runes: Command moon-letters to reveal themselves 
in the full light of day.
• 
Works of Elder Days: Wrench control of a palantir 
from the will of the Dark Lord.

--- PAGE 71 ---
Classes
71
- Slayer -
‘The day will come when they will perish and I 
shall go back!’
Perhaps you or your family suffered a terrible loss at 
another’s hands, and you became a slayer to take your 
revenge on whoever wronged you. Perhaps a terrible rage 
burns in your soul, and you just had to leave behind a life 
that you are not able to enjoy any more. Or perhaps you 
are the descendant of a warrior people, born to the saddle 
or the sword.
Perhapses. Maybes. Enough of them. There is certainty 
in battle, and it is in battle that you find your true home. 
Slayers are fighters without peer, riders and berserkers 
with fire in their veins. 
Play a Slayer if you wish to…
• 
Toss wolves and goblins from your path like straw 
and feathers.
• 
Take revenge upon the Enemy for all the many 
injustices inflicted on your people.
• 
Fight alone, or in the front line of a company of 
warriors.
Class Features
As a Slayer, you gain the following class features.
Hit Points
Hit Dice: 1d12 per Slayer level
Hit Points at 1st level: 12 + your Constitution modifier
Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d12 (or 7) + your Constitution 
modifier per Slayer level after 1st
Proficiencies
Armour: Light armour, medium armour, shields
Weapons: Simple weapons, martial weapons
Tools: None
Saving Throws: Strength, Constitution
Skills: Choose two from Animal Handling, Athletics, 
Intimidation, Nature, Perception and Survival
Equipment
You start with the following extra equipment, in addition 
to equipment granted by your Standard of Living.
Frugal: A greataxe and hide armour.
Poor: Any martial weapon and hide armour, a spear, two 
hand axes.
Martial, Prosperous or Rich: Any martial weapon and 
a corslet of mail, a spear, two hand axes.

--- PAGE 72 ---
Adventures in Middle-earth
72
Shadow Weakness
Curse of Vengeance
Battle-fury
In battle, you fight with white-hot rage or cold, deadly 
precision. Whatever the character of your anger, on your 
turn, you can enter a Battle-fury as a bonus action. While 
in a Fury, you gain the following benefits if you aren’t 
wearing heavy armour:
• 
You have advantage on Strength checks and Strength 
saving throws.
• 
When you make a melee weapon attack using Strength, 
you gain a bonus to the damage roll that increases 
as you gain levels as a Slayer, as shown in the Fury 
Damage column of the Slayer table.
• 
You have resistance to bludgeoning, piercing and 
slashing damage.
Your Battle-fury lasts for 1 minute. It ends early if you are 
knocked unconscious or if your turn ends and you haven’t 
attacked a hostile creature since your last turn or taken 
damage since then. 
The Slayer
Level
Proficiency Bonus
Features
Furies
Fury Damage
1
+2
Battle-fury, Unarmoured Defence
2
+2
2
+2
Reckless Attack, Vigilant Senses
2
+2
3
+2
Slayer Path
3
+2
4
+2
Character Improvement
3
+2
5
+3
Extra Attack, Fast Movement 
3
+2
6
+3
Path Feature
4
+2
7
+3
Black Mist
4
+2
8
+3
Character Improvement
4
+2
9
+4
Mortal Wound (1 die)
4
+3
10
+4
Path Feature
4
+3
11
+4
Pierced by Many Arrows
4
+3
12
+4
Character Improvement
5
+3
13
+5
Mortal Wound (2 dice)
5
+3
14
+5
Path Feature
5
+3
15
+5
There Many Foes He Fought
5
+3
16
+5
Character Improvement
5
+4
17
+6
Mortal Wound (3 dice)
6
+4
18
+6
Indomitable Might
6
+4
19
+6
Character Improvement
6
+4
20
+6
Strength Greater than Any Hand
Unlimited
+4

--- PAGE 73 ---
Classes
73
You can also end your Battle-fury on your turn as a bonus 
action. Once you have used this feature the number of 
times shown for your level in the Furies column of the 
Slayer table, you must finish a long rest before you can 
enter a Battle-fury again.
Unarmoured Defence
While you are not wearing any armour, your Armour Class 
equals 10 + your Dexterity modifier + your Constitution 
modifier. You can use a shield (but not a great shield) and 
still gain this benefit.
Reckless Attack
Starting at 2nd level, you can throw aside all concern for 
defence to attack with fierce desperation. When you make 
your first attack on your turn, you can decide to attack 
recklessly. Doing so gives you advantage on melee weapon 
attack rolls using Strength during this turn, but attack rolls 
against you have advantage until your next turn.
Vigilant Senses
At 2nd level, you begin to sense when danger is near. You 
have advantage on Wisdom (Perception) ability checks 
when seeking to detect nearby enemies or ambushes. 
To gain this benefit, you cannot be blinded, deafened or 
incapacitated.
Slayer Path
At 3rd level, you choose a path that shapes the nature of 
your Battle-fury. Choose the path of the Rider or the path 
of the Foehammer (both are detailed at the end of the class 
description). 
Your choice grants you features at 3rd level and again at 
6th, 10th and 14th levels.
Character Improvement
When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, 
and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your 
choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your 
choice by 1, or you can take a Cultural or Open Virtue. 
As normal, you cannot increase an ability score above 20 
using this feature.
Extra Attack
Beginning at 5th level, you can attack twice, instead of 
once, whenever you take the Attack action on your turn.
Fast Movement
Starting at 5th level, your Speed increases by 10 feet while 
you aren’t wearing heavy armour.
Black Mist
By 7th level, your instincts are so honed that you 
have advantage on initiative rolls. Additionally, if you 
are surprised at the beginning of combat and aren’t 
incapacitated, you can act normally on your first turn, but 
only if you enter your Battle-fury before doing anything 
else on that turn.
Mortal Wound
Beginning at 9th level, you can roll one additional weapon 
damage die when determining the extra damage for a 
critical hit with a melee attack. This increases to two 
additional dice at 13th level and three additional dice at 
17th level.

--- PAGE 74 ---
Adventures in Middle-earth
74
Pierced By Many Arrows
Starting at 11th level, you can keep fighting despite 
grievous wounds. If you drop to 0 hit points while you are 
in a Battle-fury (or if you have any uses of Battle-fury left) 
and don’t die outright, you can make a DC 10 Constitution 
saving throw. 
If you succeed, you drop to 1 hit point instead (and enter 
Battle-fury if you are not already). Each time you use this 
feature after the first, the DC increases by 5. When you 
finish a short or long rest, the DC resets to 10.
There Many Foes He Fought
Beginning at 15th level, your Battle-fury is so all-consuming 
that it ends only if you fall unconscious or if you choose 
to end it.
Indomitable Might
At 18th level, if your total for a Strength check is less than 
your Strength score, you can use your Strength score in 
place of the total.
Strength Greater Than Any Warrior’s Hand
At 20th level, the wrath you have embraced changes you 
forever. Your Strength and Constitution scores increase by 
4. Your maximum for those scores is now 24.
Slayer Paths
He stood a moment as a man who is pierced in the midst of 
a cry by an arrow through the heart; and then his face went 
deathly white, and a cold fury rose in him, and so that all 
speech failed him for a while. A fey mood took him.
"Éowyn, Éowyn!" he cried at last. "Éowyn, how come you 
here? What madness or devilry is this? Death, death, death! 
Death take us all!"
The Slayer does not consciously choose a path; it is an 
instinctive decision, or a fate pre-ordained outside the 
circles of the world. 
The Rider
While the Rohirrim are the most famous riders among 
the Free People, they are not the only folk to fight from 
horseback. The charge of a mounted Slayer is as terrible 
and glorious as the break of dawn, and the blowing of 
their horns resounds from the mountains to the Sea. 
Mounted Combat
Beginning at 3rd level, if you are mounted, you deal an 
extra 1d4 damage when you hit an unmounted Medium 
or Small foe with a melee attack. If you take the Dash 
action you may make an attack as a bonus action. 
Mighty Spear-Throw
At 6th level, when you throw your spear with advantage, 
you automatically inflict maximum damage instead 
of rolling the dice. If you are mounted, you do not gain 
disadvantage when throwing your spear at long range.
Intimidating Presence
Beginning at 10th level, when mounted, you can use your 
action to frighten someone with your glowering presence. 
When you do so, choose one creature within 30 feet that 
you can see. If the creature can see or hear you, it must 
succeed on a Wisdom saving throw (DC equal to 8 + 
your proficiency bonus + your Charisma modifier) or be 
Frightened of you until the end of your next turn. 
On subsequent turns, you can use your action to extend 
the duration of this effect on the Frightened creature until 
the end of your next turn. The effect ends if the creature 
ends its turn out of line of sight or more than 60 feet away 
from you. If the creature succeeds on its saving throw, you 
can’t use this feature on that creature again until you’ve 
taken a long rest. 
If you Dash into combat, you may use Intimidating 
Presence as a bonus action. 
Note that using Intimidating Presence doesn’t normally 
count as a Misdeed – although the Loremaster might 
decide otherwise if the Slayer abuses their menacing 
influence to bully innocent folk without cause. 
Horns Wildly Blowing
At 14th level, you can inspire your allies. As a bonus 
action, you may blow your horn or shout a battle-cry. If 
you do, a number of allies equal to 1+ your Charisma 
modifier gain the benefits of your Reckless Attack feature. 
If an ally makes a Reckless Attack, they get to add your 
Fury Damage bonus to their damage rolls.

--- PAGE 75 ---
Classes
75
Foe-Hammer
Slayers who walk the path of the Foe-hammer wade into 
the very thick of battle, heedless of their enemies’ paltry 
blows. Such Slayers are near unstoppable, their fury 
enhancing their might to a point where they can slay lesser 
warriors with nothing more than a blow of their fist.
Armoured Fury
Starting when you choose this path at 3rd level, you gain 
the full benefits of your Battle-fury while wearing heavy 
armour. In addition, if you do not already have it, you also 
acquire the heavy armour proficiency. 
Hooped and Hasped
Beginning at the 6th level, your armour no longer impedes 
you in any way. You add your full Dexterity modifier as 
a bonus to your Armour Class, regardless of the type of 
armour you are wearing. You are no longer subject to 
stealth disadvantage when wearing medium armour.
Hammerhand 
Beginning at 10th level, your anger courses through your 
limbs. At all times, your hands now count as martial 
melee weapons. When you are in a Battle-fury, they do a 
base 1d4 bludgeoning damage and score a critical hit on 
a roll of 19-20. 
If you are fighting with a melee weapon other than your 
hands, then you immediately get a bonus unarmed attack 
if you miss with your regular attack as a bonus action. 
Splintered Spears & Shattered Shields 
Starting at 14th level, you may choose to channel all of 
your fury into a single, devastating, blow. You can choose 
one of the following options:
• 
Automatically score a critical hit in melee combat 
with any melee weapon other than your fist. After 
determining damage, your weapon is utterly broken 
in the attack and cannot be used again. (Some 
ancient, often magical, arms cannot be broken, but 
can be damaged enough to require repair after being 
used in this fashion.) Creatures immune to critical hits 
still take the full damage from this attack.
• 
Automatically destroy an opponent’s shield in place 
of an attack, splitting it asunder, or crumpling it under 
a heavy blow. Some shields, often wrought by Durin’s 
folk long ago, cannot be broken this way, in which 
case the opponent suffers damage as if they had been 
successfully struck.
Once you have used this ability, you cannot use it again 
until you have had a long rest.
At 17th level, this ability may be used twice per long rest.

--- PAGE 76 ---
Adventures in Middle-earth
76
- treasure -
 hunter 
“Far over the misty mountains cold
To dungeons deep and caverns old
We must away ere break of day
To seek the pale enchanted gold”
The world has seen the passing of the glory of many 
Dwarven kings and Elven lords, and their heritage is now 
buried in deep dungeons and dim caverns. Pale gold and 
bright jewels beckon all who dare to find them. Be it a 
family treasure stolen by raiding Goblins, or the golden 
hoard of a Dragon, you seek what is lost, even when that 
means you will have to brave unspeakable dangers. 
Treasure Hunters are not necessarily burglars or thieves; 
they might equally be explorers or scouts. Soft-footed and 
clever, a Treasure Hunter can be a marvellous asset to a 
company of adventurers, even if they cannot be entirely 
trusted. When creating a treasure hunter, consider if 
you’re merely naturally stealthy, or if you’re a trained 
burglar, spy or explorer.
Play a Treasure Hunter if you want to…
• 
Sneak into caverns, fortresses and noisome tombs 
where danger lurks.
• 
Spy on the movements and plans of the Enemy.
• 
Steal back stolen treasure from the Orcs and Goblins.
Class Features
As a Treasure Hunter, you gain the following class features.
Hit Points
Hit Dice: 1d8 per Treasure Hunter level
Hit Points at 1st Level: 8 + your Constitution modifier
Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d8 (or 5) + your Constitution 
modifier per Treasure Hunter level after 1st.
Proficiencies
Armour: Light Armour
Weapons: Simple weapons, broadsword, short sword
Tools: Thieves’ tools
Saving Throws: Dexterity, Intelligence
Skills: Choose four from Acrobatics, Athletics, Deception, 
Insight, Intimidation, Perception, Persuasion, Riddle, Sleight 
of Hand and Stealth
Equipment
You start with the following extra equipment, in addition 
to equipment granted by your Standard of Living.
Poor or Frugal: A leather jerkin, a short-sword, a short 
bow with a quiver of 20 arrows.
Martial: A leather jerkin, a short sword or broadsword, a 
short bow with a quiver of 20 arrows, two daggers.
Prosperous: A leather jerkin, a short sword or broadsword, 
a short bow with a quiver of 20 arrows, two daggers, 2d6 
silver pennies.
Rich: A leather jerkin, a short sword or broadsword, a 
short bow with a quiver of 20 arrows, two daggers, 5d6 
silver pennies.
Shadow Weakness
Dragon-sickness

--- PAGE 77 ---
Classes
77
The Treasure Hunter
Level
Proficiency 
Bonus
Sneak 
Attack
Features
1
+2
1d6
Expertise, Night 
Vision, Sneak Attack
2
+2
1d6
Cunning Action
3
+2
2d6
Treasure Hunter 
Archetype
4
+2
2d6
Character 
Improvement
5
+3
3d6
Uncanny Dodge
6
+3
3d6
Expertise
7
+3
4d6
Avoidance
8
+3
4d6
Character 
Improvement
9
+4
5d6
Treasure Hunter 
Archetype Feature
10
+4
5d6
Character 
Improvement
11
+4
6d6
Luck-winner
12
+4
6d6
Character 
Improvement
13
+5
7d6 
Treasure Hunter 
Archetype Feature
14
+5
7d6
Quiet as Quiet
15
+5
8d6
Slippery Mind
16
+5
8d6
Character 
Improvement
17
+6
9d6 
Treasure Hunter 
Archetype Feature
18
+6
9d6
Elusive
19
+6
10d6
Character 
Improvement
20
+6
10d6
Stroke of Luck
Expertise
At 1st level, choose two of your skill proficiencies, or 
one of your skill proficiencies and your proficiency with 
thieves’ tools. Your proficiency bonus is doubled for any 
ability check you make that uses either of the chosen 
proficiencies.
At 6th level, you can choose two more of your skill 
proficiencies, or one of your skill proficiencies and your 
proficiency with thieves’ tools, to gain this benefit.
Night Vision
Due to the clandestine nature of your activities you tend to 
operate in the shadows and other dimly lit or unlit places. 
Over time you have grown accustomed to doing so and 
your senses have adapted accordingly. While you don’t 
necessarily see better in dim light or total darkness, your 
other senses have grown to compensate for it. 
Within 60 feet, you treat dim light as if it were bright light 
and no light as if it were dim light. Note that while your 
other senses aid your sight, you cannot use this feature if 
you are Blinded.
Sneak Attack
Beginning at 1st level, you know how to strike subtly and 
exploit a foe’s distraction. Once per turn, you can deal an 
extra 1d6 damage to one creature you hit with an attack 
if you have advantage on the attack roll. The attack must 
use a finesse or a ranged weapon.
You don’t need advantage on the attack roll if another 
enemy of the target is within 5 feet of it, that enemy isn’t 
incapacitated, and you don’t have disadvantage on the 
attack roll. The amount of this extra damage increases as 
you gain levels in this class, as shown in the Sneak Attack 
column of the Treasure Hunter table.
Cunning Action
Starting at 2nd level, your quick thinking and agility allow 
you to move and act swiftly. You can take a bonus action 
on each of your turns in combat. This action can be used 
only to take the Dash, Disengage or Hide actions.
Treasure Hunter Archetype
At 3rd level, you choose an archetype that you emulate 
in the exercise of your Treasure Hunting abilities. Choose 
Agent or Burglar (both are detailed at the end of the class 
description).

--- PAGE 78 ---
Adventures in Middle-earth
78
Your archetype choice grants you features at 3rd level, and 
then again at 9th, 13th and 17th level.
Character Improvement
When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 10th, 12th, 
16th and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of 
your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores 
of your choice by 1, or you can take a Cultural or Open 
Virtue. As normal, you cannot increase an ability score 
above 20 using this feature.
Uncanny Dodge
Starting at 5th level, when an attacker that you can see 
hits you with an attack, you can use your reaction to halve 
the attack’s damage against you.
Avoidance
Beginning 
at 
7th 
level, 
your 
sharpened 
senses 
immediately alert you to dangerous situations. Whenever 
the Loremaster would normally make a passive Wisdom 
(Perception) check to notice a trap or other peril, they 
instead allow you to make an ability check. You may use 
whichever score is higher, your passive Perception score or 
the result of your ability check.
Luck-winner
By 11th level, you have either learned to take advantage of 
every opportunity, or you are just naturally lucky to have 
survived this long. You may invoke this ability to have an 
opportunity present itself due to good fortune. 
An enemy might be distracted for a moment, allowing you to 
use your Sneak Attack. You might fumble your way blindly 
through a labyrinth, or gain advantage on an Intelligence 
(Investigation) ability check by accidentally discovering 
a vital clue. You might eavesdrop on a guard just as he 
discloses some crucial information. You might even put 
your hand on a ring when groping about on the floor of a 
darkened tunnel. This stroke of good fortune will always be 
beneficial to you, but the Loremaster decides exactly what 
form it takes. Once you use Luck-winner, you cannot use 
this ability again until you have taken a long rest. 
Quiet as Quiet
Starting at 14th level, you have advantage on Dexterity 
(Stealth) checks as long as you move no more than half 
your speed on the same turn.
Slippery Mind
By 15th level, you have acquired greater mental strength. 
You gain proficiency in Wisdom saving throws.
Elusive
Beginning at 18th level, you are so evasive that attackers 
rarely gain the upper hand against you. No attack 
roll has advantage against you so long as you aren’t 
incapacitated.
Stroke of Luck
At 20th level, you have an uncanny knack for succeeding 
when you need to. If your attack misses a target within 
range, you can turn the miss into a hit. Alternatively, if 
you fail an ability check, you can treat the d20 roll as a 20. 
Once you use this feature, you cannot use it again until 
you finish a short or long rest.

--- PAGE 79 ---
Classes
79
Treasure Hunter Archetypes
Treasure Hunters all have a few things in common; they 
specialise in getting into difficult places and extracting 
valuables, whether information or something more tangible. 
Some Treasure Hunters prefer to operate within the 
shadows of strongholds, manipulating others to get what 
they want, while others prefer exploring places untouched 
in centuries, braving traps and nesting creatures in the 
hopes that something valuable may be discovered.
Agent
But it appeared he was nobody’s friend, and nobody could 
recollect when he had joined their party.
The Agent relies on charm as much as stealth or wit. As 
such, while the Agent still knows a lot about getting into 
places normally barred to outsiders, they can often do so 
in the open by simply convincing people that they should 
be allowed to pass. 
Bonus Proficiencies
You gain tool proficiencies with the disguise kit and the 
forgery kit, and gain proficiency with the Traditions skill if 
you don’t possess it already. 
Secrets Gleaned
You are adept at observing the plans and weapons of your 
enemies. Starting at 3rd level, if you spy on an enemy 
without being detected for at least 10 minutes, you may 
pick one of the following benefits:
• 
The Loremaster gives you a clue about the enemy’s 
plans or destination.
• 
You spot a potential weakness in the enemy, giving 
you (or an ally you advise) advantage on the first 
attack you make against foes of that kind.
• 
You gain a +1 bonus to AC against attacks made by 
enemies of the kind you are observing. This benefit 
lasts until you next take a short rest.
• 
You gain advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) ability 
checks made against enemies of this kind. This benefit 
lasts until you next take a short rest. 
• 
You closely observe the enemy and can describe 
their appearance, gear and tactics in sufficient 
detail that when you give your report, other player-
heroes gain advantage on checks to obtain more 
information about the enemy through ability checks 
like Intelligence (Lore) or Intelligence (Traditions). 
Riddling Words
At 9th level, you have mastered the art of gaining trust. 
When you spend at least 10 minutes persuading a creature 
of your good intentions, that creature is considered 
Charmed unless the creature makes a Wisdom saving 
throw against a DC 8 + your Charisma modifier + your 
proficiency bonus. 
This charmed state lasts until you give the creature 
reason to doubt your sincerity or until a long rest. Another 
creature can attempt to break a Charmed creature from 
your influence, but has disadvantage on their appropriate 
social interaction roll  if you are present. 
Exit Strategy
When you reach 13th level, you have mastered the art of 
escape. Whenever you enter a new location your mind 
instinctively looks for all the ways that you can most 
efficiently extricate yourself should you find yourself in 
danger. You have advantage on any ability checks that you 
make for the sole purpose of escaping the location.
Compelling Words
When you reach 17th level, your ability to convince others 
borders on the preternatural. You may issue commands 
to any creature that you have charmed with your Riddling 
Words feature and that creature must carry them out to 
the best of its ability. 
If the command is something that the creature would 
question or have an aversion to following your commands, 
then it gets another Wisdom saving throw against the DC 
for your Riddling Words feature. 
If you are attempting to compel the creature to do 
something abhorrent to its nature, then it has advantage 
on its saving throw. Use of Compelling Words may count 
as a Misdeed.

--- PAGE 80 ---
Adventures in Middle-earth
80
Burglar
Burglar wants a good job, plenty of Excitement and 
reasonable Reward, that ís how it is usually read. You can 
say Expert Treasure-hunter instead of Burglar if you like. 
Some of them do. It ís all the same to us. 
You employ your dubious, if highly useful, skills to acquire 
things that others possess. Whether you use your prowess 
to plunder old forgotten ruins in search of unclaimed 
treasure, or the purses of honest Free Folk is up to you.
The Shadow of My Pockets
Yours may be a somewhat larcenous spirit, but you 
certainly don’t serve the Shadow in the East. Starting when 
you choose this archetype at 3rd level, when you commit 
a Theft Misdeed (normally causing you to automatically 
acquire 3 Shadow points) you only receive 1 Shadow point.
Filch
You are adept at picking people’s pockets and performing 
other acts of legerdemain when their guard is down. Also 
starting at 3rd level, when you make a Sneak Attack in 
melee combat, instead of inflicting extra damage you may 
instead successfully perform a Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) 
check on your opponent (you still do regular damage as 
normal if you wish). In addition to normal uses of Sleight 
of Hand, this feature enables you to take any weapon 
on your opponent’s person that they are not currently 
wielding.
Treasure Lore
When you first pick this archetype at 3rd level, you hear 
many tales about strongholds or ruins where great 
treasures may lay. Whenever you are told of a particular 
location or chance across it, you may ask the Loremaster 
for three pieces of information regarding the locale. This 
information is usually a mixture of particular treasures 
and obstacles. 
Information gleaned may be taken as generally true, 
although details may be fuzzy and key bits omitted.
Hide in Shadows
At 9th level, you have an uncanny ability to hide, or at least 
use the shadows to your advantage. So long as there are 
shadows present, you may take a bonus action to Hide, 
even when other creatures are aware of your presence. 
Such opponents may make a Wisdom (Perception) check 
(DC equals the result of your Dexterity (Stealth) check) to 
notice you and negate your attack advantage.
Wary
At 13th level, you have become accustomed to spotting 
traps and ambushes before they occur. You gain +5 on any 
passive Perception checks to spot an ambush or a trap. If 
you are actively searching for traps or ambushes, then you 
may substitute your increased passive Perception score for 
your ability check result if the former is higher.
Obfuscation
At 17th level, your ability to go unseen is legendary. You 
have advantage whenever you make a Dexterity (Stealth) 
ability check to hide and you can hide nearly anywhere. 
If you are in a shadowy area that lends itself to hiding, 
others looking for you have disadvantage.

--- PAGE 81 ---
Classes
81
- Wanderer -
“Most of our kindred have long ago departed, 
and we too are only tarrying here for a while, 
ere we return over the Great Sea.”
You see the wonders of living in Middle-earth, even where 
the Shadow is deepest. Every corner of the land holds 
a promise of untold secrets, and this is why you have 
decided that any dell, cave and river vale can be your 
home, albeit briefly. For when morning comes, another 
horizon will show your new destination. 
Some Wanderers have purpose in their journeying: they 
might be traders, hunters, Rangers or on some errand that 
brings them far from the lands of their birth. Others were 
driven from their homes by Orcs or Dragons, and must 
now roam Middle-earth and dream of reclaiming what 
was once theirs. 
Still others have fallen under the spell of the Road, and 
will find their restless feet always itching to carry them off 
on another adventure.
Play a Wanderer if you want to…
• 
Explore the wide world of Middle-earth.
• 
Hunt down and destroy the servants of the Shadow, 
no matter where they hide.
• 
Guide a company of adventurers through the perils of 
the Wild.
Class Features
As a Wanderer, you gain the following class features.
Hit Points
Hit Dice: 1d10 per Wanderer level.
Hit Points at 1st level: 10 + your Constitution modifier.
Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d10 (or 6) + your Constitution 
modifier per Wanderer level after 1st.
Proficiencies
Armour: Light armour, medium armour, shields.
Weapons: Simple weapons, martial weapons.
Tools: None.
Saving Throws: Strength, Constitution.
Skills: Survival, plus choose three from Animal Handling, 
Athletics, Insight, Investigation, Nature, Perception, Stealth 
and Traditions.
Equipment
You start with the following extra equipment, in addition 
to equipment granted by your Standard of Living.
Poor: A leather corslet, a simple weapon, and a short bow 
or a great bow with a quiver of 20 arrows.
Frugal or Martial: Hide armour, a martial weapon, a 
shield, and a short bow or a great bow with a quiver of 
20 arrows.
Rich or Prosperous: Corslet of mail, a martial weapon, 
a shield, and a short bow or a great bow with a quiver of 
20 arrows.
Shadow Weakness
Wandering-madness

--- PAGE 82 ---
Adventures in Middle-earth
82
The Wanderer
Level
Proficiency 
Bonus
Features
1
+2
Known Lands, Ways of the 
Wild
2
+2
Fighting Style, Natural 
Watchfulness
3
+2
Wanderer Archetype, 
Rumour of the Earth
4
+2
Character Improvement
5
+3
Extra Attack
6
+3
Known Lands and Ways of 
the Wild improvements
7
+3
Wanderer Archetype 
feature
8
+3
Character Improvement, 
Poison Resistance
9
+4
Trackless Steps
10
+4
Hide in Plain Sight, Known 
Lands improvement
11
+4
Wanderer Archetype 
feature
12
+4
Character Improvement
13
+5
Unflagging
14
+5
Ways of the Wild 
improvement, Vanish
15
+5
Wanderer Archetype 
feature
16
+5
Character Improvement
17
+6
Blight Ward
18
+6
Secrets on the Wind
19
+6
Character Improvement
20
+6
Deadly Foe
Known Lands
Long years spent roaming over the land have given you 
vast amounts of knowledge about some of the regions 
of Middle-earth. You know the terrain of such lands like 
the backs of your hands and your lore can seem almost 
unnatural to any companions travelling with you. At 1st 
level, choose 3 regions + a number of regions equal to your 
Wisdom modifier from the Middle-earth maps. When you 
make an Intelligence or Wisdom check related to a land 
you know, your proficiency bonus is doubled if you are 
using a skill you are proficient in.
When you are travelling in one of your Known Lands you 
gain the following benefits:
• 
If any part of a journey passes through a land you 
know, the DC of your personal Event tests are lowered 
by 2.
• 
If the entire journey passes through lands you know, 
and you act as Guide, you lower the Peril Rating of the 
Journey by 2.
• 
You have advantage when making Wisdom saving 
throws against Corruption caused by Blighted lands 
you know.
• 
You cannot become lost under normal circumstances.
• 
You know at least one place in each Known Land 
where you can safely take a long rest: a settlement 
where you have friends, perhaps, or a hidden cabin 
in the woods or simply a dry and defensible cavern or 
secret glade.
• 
You have advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) ability 
checks and can move stealthily at a normal pace.
• 
While tracking other creatures, you automatically 
learn their exact number, their sizes and how recently 
they passed through the area.
At both 6th and 10th level you choose an additional number 
of Known Lands equal to 1 + your Wisdom modifier, with 
a minimum of 1. With the Loremaster’s permission, you 
can save these Known Lands until you start exploring new 
areas – once chosen, they cannot be changed.
Ways of the Wild
You have a great deal of experience from travelling through 
the wilderness and surviving the various dangers that the 
wild constantly offers.

--- PAGE 83 ---
Classes
83
At 1st level, you have advantage on all Wisdom (Survival) 
ability checks when tracking others through the wilderness. 
If you act as a company’s Guide on a journey, you are 
considered to be assuming all vacant travelling roles (you 
are considered to ‘fill in’ as the company’s Hunter, Scout 
and Look-out at the same time, if no other companion is 
already covering that role). 
At 6th level, your time in the Wild has taught you that 
only those that strike fast and hard live to fight another 
day. When fighting in the wilderness, your first round of 
attacks in every combat has advantage.
At 14th level, you can no longer be ambushed and cannot 
be surprised in the wilderness.
Fighting Style
Starting at 2nd level, you adopt a particular style of 
fighting as your speciality. Choose one of the following 
options. You cannot choose a Fighting Style more than 
once, even if you later get to choose again.
Archery
You gain a +2 bonus to attack rolls you make with ranged 
weapons.
Defence
While you are wearing armour, you gain a +1 bonus to 
AC.
Duelling
When you are wielding a melee weapon in one hand and 
no other weapons, you gain a +2 bonus to damage rolls 
with that weapon.
Two-Weapon Fighting
When you engage in two-weapon fighting, you can add 
your ability modifier to the damage of the second attack.
Natural Watchfulness
Also at 2nd level, whether travelling, exploring or even 
resting, you have learned to constantly pay attention to 
the sights and sounds of the world about you. When in 
the wilderness, your proficiency bonus for Perception is 
doubled, if you are proficient in Perception. 
Wanderer Archetype
At 3rd level, you choose an archetype you strive to emulate. 
Choose from the Hunter of Beasts or Hunter of Shadows 
(both detailed at the end of the class description). Your 
choice grants you features at 3rd level and again at 7th, 
11th and 15th level.
Rumour of the Earth
Also starting at 3rd level, when you stretch yourself upon 
the ground with your ear pressed against the turf you can 
decipher the sounds of the earth. You can hear it groan 
when the enemy treads upon it, or echo the distant gallop 
of horses, or sing in tune with the rushing of tumbling 
waters.
Between each long rest, you may make a DC 15 Wisdom 
(Survival) ability check. On a success, the Loremaster must 
give you a useful piece of information about a quarry you 
are hunting or a place you are seeking. If you get 25 or 
higher as a result, the information gleaned may very well 
seem near-miraculous to others.
Character Improvement
When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th 
and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your 
choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your 
choice by 1, or you can take a Cultural or Open Virtue. 
As normal, you cannot increase an ability score above 20 
using this feature.
Extra Attack
Beginning at 5th level, you can attack twice, instead of 
once, whenever you take the Attack action on your turn.
Poison Resistance
At 8th level your long exposure to the poisons and venoms 
of the creatures of the wilderness (and the arrows of 
certain Orcs!) have partially inured you to them. You gain 
resistance to all poison damage.
Trackless Steps
Starting at 9th level, you cease leaving any signs of your 
passage through the Wild. You can no longer be tracked by 
any normal means through the wilderness. Additionally, 
you can cover the tracks of a number of companions equal 
to your Wisdom modifier, with a minimum of 1.

--- PAGE 84 ---
Adventures in Middle-earth
84
Hide in Plain Sight
Starting at 10th level, you can spend one minute creating 
camouflage for yourself. You generally need a traveller’s 
cloak and access to mud, dirt, plants and other naturally 
occurring materials to assist in your camouflage. Once 
you are camouflaged in this way, you can try to hide by 
pressing yourself up against a solid surface, such as a tree 
or wall, that is at least as tall and wide as you are. 
You gain a +10 bonus to Dexterity (Stealth) ability checks 
as long as you remain there without moving or taking 
actions. Once you move or take an action or a reaction, 
you must camouflage yourself again to gain this benefit.
Unflagging
Beginning at 13th level, your long journeys through the 
Wild have toughened you against the weariness of travel. 
Your exhaustion penalties are always 2 levels less than 
your present exhaustion level. In other words, you suffer 
a -1 to ability checks and attack rolls only when you’ve 
reached 3 levels of exhaustion.
Vanish
Starting at 14th level, you can use the Hide action as a 
bonus action on your turn.
Blight Ward
At 17th level, your deep connection to the wilderness 
shields you from the Shadow’s corruption. You reduce the 
number of Shadow points you gain from Blighted areas by 
1 per day. 
Secrets on the Wind
At 18th level, the natural world holds no more secrets from 
you and the wind whispers all it has heard in your ears. 
Once per long rest you may make a DC 15 Wisdom (Insight) 
ability check to learn news from far away of friends or foes. 
On a successful roll, you learn the following about 
whoever you seek news of: exactly where they are, which 
direction they are headed (if any), and their general state 
of being (drinking merrily, wounded and anxious, tired, 
or similar). 
Deadly Foe
At 20th level, your long fight against the terrors that roam 
the Wild have made you fell and terrible in battle. You 
no longer roll damage dice for successful attacks; they 
automatically inflict the maximum amount on the die.
Wanderer Archetypes
Suddenly the great bow of Lórien sang. Shrill went the 
arrow from the elven-string. Frodo looked up. Almost above 
him the winged shape swerved. There was a harsh croaking 
scream, as it fell out of the air, vanishing down in the gloom 
of the eastern shore. The sky was clean again.
The wanderer in Middle-earth has two expressions: the 
Hunter of Beasts and the Hunter of Shadows. In these dark 
days, only those wanderers who can defend themselves 
against evil foes survive in the Wild.
Hunter of Beasts
You can track your quarry across many miles, and bring 
it down with a well-placed arrow or swift blow. Some folk 
in Middle-earth rely on hunters for both sustenance and 
protection; the Woodmen of Mirkwood, for example, are 
kept safe from Spiders and other horrors by the arrows of 
their hunters. Others, like the Elves, hunt for sport, or for 
the joy of the chase – or hunt two-legged prey, trespassers 
and despoilers of the wood.
Tracker
Beginning at 3rd level, you double your proficiency bonus 
when making Wisdom (Survival) ability tests to track a 
creature. Furthermore, you may substitute Survival for 
Investigation when making deductions based on tracks, 
spoors and other physical traces.   
Swift Shot
Beginning at 7th level, if you have a ranged weapon to 
hand, you may make a single ranged attack before initiative 
is rolled. This applies even if you are surprised. 
Master Hunter
At 11th level, choose one of the following abilities. At 
15th level, choose another. You may not choose the same 
ability twice.
Run to Ground
If you spend a day stalking a foe before attacking, that 
foe gains 1 level of exhaustion. If you spend three days,

--- PAGE 85 ---
Classes
85
the foe gains another level of exhaustion (+2 total). If you 
spend a week, the foe suffers a third additional level of 
exhaustion (+3 total). This is in addition to any exhaustion 
levels otherwise accrued by the foe. 
Volley
You can use your action to make a ranged attack against 
any number of creatures within 10 feet of a point you can 
see that are within your weapon’s range. You must have 
ammunition for each target, as normal, and you must 
make a separate attack roll for each target. You must finish 
a short or long rest before you can use this ability again.
Hunter’s Blessing
Regain a Hit Die (up to your maximum) when you bring 
down (kill or incapacitate) a creature you’ve been hunting. 
Once you’ve used this ability, you cannot regain a Hit Die 
in this manner again until you’ve finished a long rest.
Hunter of Shadows
The lonely souls who choose this archetype forever hunt 
the servants of the Enemy, wherever they may hide. There 
is no respite for such Wanderers and little hope of final 
victory, yet they fight on, regardless.
Foe of the Enemy 
Beginning at 3rd level, when you choose this archetype, 
all of your attacks made against servants of the Enemy 
inflict +2 damage. Such servants are Orcs, Goblins, 
Spiders, Trolls, many Evil Men and any other creature that 
willingly serves the Lord of Mordor. 
In addition, you gain proficiency in the Shadow-lore skill. 
Revenge
Beginning at 7th level, whenever a servant of the Enemy 
successfully attacks you, as a reaction you can make a 
single attack against them in return.
Shadow Killer
At 11th level, choose one of the following features:
Bane
Once per turn, when you hit a servant of the Enemy with 
an attack, you may deal an extra d8 radiant damage. 
Furthermore, if you use a flaming torch against undead or 
other evil spirits, your attacks deal 1d12 radiant damage 
instead of the normal damage for a torch. 
Whirlwind Attack
You can use your action to make a melee attack against 
any number of creatures within 5 feet of you, with a 
separate attack roll for each target.
Defence Against the Shadow
At 15th level, you gain one of the following features of your 
choice.
Stand Against the Tide
When a hostile creature misses you with a melee attack, 
you can use your reaction to force that creature to repeat 
the same attack against another creature (other than itself) 
of your choice.
Unbreakable Will
You cannot be intimidated or frightened in any way and 
are totally immune to all supernatural sources of fear.
Uncanny Dodge
When an attacker that you can see hits you with an attack, 
you can use your reaction to halve the attack’s damage 
against you.

--- PAGE 86 ---
Adventures in Middle-earth
86
- Warden -
Beren now, he never thought he was going 
to get that Silmaril from the Iron Crown in 
Thangorodrim, and yet he did, and that was a 
worse place and a blacker danger than ours. 
But that’s a long tale, of course, and goes on 
past the happiness and into grief and beyond 
it – and the Silmaril went on and came to 
Eärendil. And why, sir, I never thought of that 
before! We’ve got – you’ve got some of the light 
of it in that star-glass that the Lady gave you! 
Why, to think of it, we’re in the same tale still! 
It’s going on. Don’t the great tales never end?
In this age of the world where shadows grow deeper 
with every passing year, you have sworn to defend all 
who cannot defend themselves. Sometimes, your choice 
forces you to forsake civilised areas, to better guard their 
inhabitants from what lurks right outside their fences. 
This has made you a stranger in the eyes of the common 
folk, a figure as threatening as those you are protecting 
them from.
Other Wardens fulfil their oath by kindling the spirits of 
the defeated and the fearful. They tell stories of past deeds 
and elder days, to inspire a new generation of heroes to 
take up arms against the Enemy. Wardens guard all that 
is worth fighting for in this age of the world, even if they 
do not know it. Many Hobbit-heroes, for example, are 
Wardens (when they are not Treasure Hunters!)
When creating a Warden, consider your relationship with 
your home culture, with your kith and kin. Do you fight to 
protect them in particular, or are you a friend and ally to 
all? Do you lift spirits with a cheery smile, or intimidate 
your foes with your grim stare? 
Play a Warden if you want to…
• 
Defend the Free Peoples against the Shadow.
• 
Inspire your allies to yet greater deeds.
• 
Bring hope when all hope is lost.
Class Features
As a Warden, you gain the following class features.
Hit Points
Hit Dice: 1d8 per Warden level.
Hit Points at 1st level: 8 + your Constitution modifier.
Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d8 (or 5) + your Constitution 
modifier per Warden level after 1st.
Proficiencies
Armour: Light armour, shields.
Weapons: Simple weapons, broadswords, long swords, 
short swords.
Saving Throws: Dexterity, Charisma.
Skills: Traditions, choose any other two.
Equipment
You start with the following extra equipment, in addition 
to equipment granted by your Standard of Living.
Poor or Frugal: Any simple weapon, a short bow with a 
quiver of 20 arrows, a leather jerkin.

--- PAGE 87 ---
Classes
87
Martial or Prosperous: A broad-, long- or short sword, 
a short bow or a great bow with a quiver of 20 arrows, a 
leather corslet, a shield.
Rich: A broad-, long- or short sword, a short bow or a 
great bow with a quiver of 20 arrows, a leather corslet, a 
shield or great shield. 
Shadow Weakness
Lure of Power
The Warden
Level
Proficiency 
Bonus
Features
1
+2
Warden’s Gift (d6), 
Ever Watchful
2
+2
Jack of All Trades, Campfire 
Tales (d6)
3
+2
Talented, Warden Expression
4
+2
Character Improvement
5
+3
Warden’s Gift (d8), Dauntless
6
+3
Distraction
7
+3
Expression Feature
8
+3
Character Improvement
9
+4
Campfire Tales (d8)
10
+4
Talented, Warden’s Gift (d10)
11
+4
Expression Feature
12
+4
Character Improvement
13
+5
Campfire Tales (d10)
14
+5
Nor Weariness, Nor Endless 
Barren Miles
15
+5
Expression Feature, Warden’s 
Gift (d12)
16
+5
Character Improvement
17
+6
Campfire Tales (d12)
18
+6
Commanding Voice
19
+6
Character Improvement
20
+6
A Light When All Other Lights 
Go Out
Warden’s Gift
You can inspire others through stirring words, through 
music or by your presence alone. To do so, use a bonus 
action on your turn. Choose one creature other than 
yourself that is within 60 feet of you and who can hear 
you. That creature gains one Gift die, a d6.
Once within the next 10 minutes, the creature can roll the 
Gift die and add the number rolled to one ability check, 
attack roll or saving throw it attempts. The creature can 
wait until after it rolls the d20 before deciding to use 
the Gift die, but must decide before the Loremaster says 
whether the roll succeeds or fails. Once the Gift die is 
rolled, it is lost. A creature may have only one Gift die at 
a time.
You can use this feature a number of times equal to your 
Charisma modifier (a minimum of once). You regain any 
expended uses after a long rest.
Your Gift die increases in size when you reach certain 
levels in this class. The die becomes a d8 at 5th level, a 
d10 at 10th level and a d12 at 15th level.
Ever Watchful 
Wardens make a point of keeping up with the latest news 
both local and from afar, as well as making an effort to 
know the wise and the powerful. If you can freely travel 
about an area talking with locals and passing travellers 
for a few hours, you can make a DC 12 Intelligence 
(Investigation) ability check with advantage. 
Success indicates that you hear all the latest useful 
rumours, including news of trouble. Failure means you 
hear all the latest rumours and news, but cannot discern 
the true from the false. On a success, you can also glean 
the names, whereabouts and general appearances of all 
local influential individuals, households and factions, as 
well as what livery, colours and heraldry they typically 
bear, if any.  
Jack of All Trades
Wardens tend to know a little bit about everything. 
Starting at 2nd level, you can add half your proficiency 
bonus, rounded down, to any ability check you make that 
doesn’t already include your proficiency bonus.

--- PAGE 88 ---
Adventures in Middle-earth
88
Campfire Tales
Beginning at 2nd level, you can help revitalise your 
wounded allies during a short rest. If you tell tales during 
a short rest, then you and any nearby friendly creatures 
listening to your tales gain an additional 1d6 hit points 
per Hit Die spent.
The number of extra hit points gained increases as you 
gain Warden levels: to 1d8 at 9th level, to 1d10 at 13th 
level and to 1d12 at 17th level.
Talented
At 3rd level, choose two of your skill proficiencies. Your 
proficiency bonus is doubled for any ability check you 
make that uses either of the chosen proficiencies.
At 10th level, you can choose another two skill proficiencies 
to gain this benefit.
Warden Expression
Also at 3rd level, you choose the way in which your Warden 
talents will express themselves. Choose Counsellor, 
Herald or Bounder (all three are detailed at the end of the 
class description).
Your choice of expression grants you features at 3rd level 
and then again at 7th, 11th and 15th level.
Character Improvement
When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th 
and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your 
choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your 
choice by 1, or you can take a Cultural or Open Virtue. 
As normal, you cannot increase an ability score above 20 
using this feature.
Dauntless
Beginning at 5th level, you regain all of your expended 
uses of Warden’s Gift when you finish a short or long rest.
Distraction
At 6th level, you can use your sharp wit and knowledge 
of the terrain to distract, confuse and otherwise sap the 
confidence and competence of others. 
When a creature that you can see within 60 feet of you 
makes an attack roll, an ability check or a damage roll, 
you can use your reaction to expend one of your uses 
of Warden’s Gift, rolling a Gift die and subtracting the 
number rolled from the creature’s roll. 
You can choose to use this feature after the creature makes 
its roll, but before the Loremaster determines whether the 
attack roll or ability check succeeds or fails, or before the 
creature deals its damage. The creature is immune if it 
cannot hear you or if it is immune to being charmed.
Nor Weariness, Nor Endless Barren Miles
Starting at 14th level, when you make an ability check, 
you can expend one use of Warden’s Gift. Roll a Gift die 
and add the number rolled to your ability check. You can 
choose to do so after you roll the die for the ability check, 
but before the Loremaster tells you whether you succeed 
or fail.
Spirit of Fire
At 18th level you are amongst the greatest Wardens in the 
world. You may replace any Charisma check you make 
with a 15 (before adding modifiers). You may do this a 
number of times equal to your Charisma modifier. You 
regain any expended uses when you finish a long rest.
A Light When All Other Lights Go Out
At 20th level, when you roll initiative and have no uses of 
Warden’s Gift left, you regain one use.
Warden Expressions
From the ashes a fire shall be woken
A light from the shadows shall spring.
Wardens in Middle-earth eventually cleave to one of these 
three categories: Counsellor, Herald, or Bounder. These 
three expressions of the Warden class are each quite 
different, but all involve inspiring and protecting those 
who need your aid. 
Counsellor
Your voice is your weapon. You have the ear of heroes and 
lords, and can accomplish more with a whispered word 
than with a drawn sword.

--- PAGE 89 ---
Classes
89
Bonus Proficiency
When you choose this expression at 3rd level, you gain 
proficiency in a single Charisma or Wisdom skill of your 
choice.
Discourse
Also starting at 3rd level, through carefully chosen words 
and the force of your personality, you have an uncanny 
ability to lower the guard of potential enemies and sway 
them towards parley instead of violence. Choose one 
creature within earshot and make a Charisma check with 
advantage. Your opponent may make a Wisdom saving 
throw. If you succeed, then that creature is considered 
friendly towards you. 
The skill you use for this Charisma check depends on the 
type of discourse that you wish to engage in: if you are 
trying to trick your opponent then you use Deception; 
if you are using your strength of arms to make your 
enemy stand down then you use Intimidation; if you are 
trying to convince a neutral party to join you then you 
use Persuasion; and if you simply wish to occupy your 
opponent’s attention for a while then you use Performance. 
In short, any Charisma-based skill can be used as long as 
there is a reasonable basis.
A friendly creature actively tries to help you so long as it 
or its allies aren’t threatened; any attack against a friendly 
creature or its allies obviously ends the discourse! If you 
ask a friendly creature to commit a Misdeed, do something 
that would force it to defy its orders, or otherwise upset 
someone above it, then at the Loremaster’s discretion it is 
allowed to make another Wisdom saving throw. 
It takes a lot out of you to think quickly and find the best 
words to lower your opponent’s guard. Once this feature 
is used, it cannot be used again until you have taken a 
short rest.
Worthy Counsel
By 7th level, you are particularly good at giving advice. 
When you grant a creature a Gift die, if they use it to make 
an ability check following your guidance, they also have 
advantage on the roll. Alternatively, you can give bad 
counsel, and give them disadvantage on the roll, but only 
if the creature already trusts you and accepts your advice 
at face value.
Anticipate
At 11th level, your knowledge and experience almost give 
you a sixth sense when it comes to anticipating things 
that might go wrong. Once per long rest, if you have spent 
at least half an hour pondering a course of action, the 
Loremaster gives you some insight on one or more likely 
problems with your contemplated course of action. This 
could be a particularly stubborn diplomat, an insufficient 
number of troops to accomplish a goal or even the lack of 
an ally’s resolve to see a plan through.
This feature does not give you access to any information 
that you would not reasonably know beforehand. 
For example, if your enemy secretly bolstered his troops 
with Black Númenórean mercenaries, then you would not 
have access to that knowledge; however, the Loremaster 
may inform you that your enemy would never make a 
move against you at his current strength, so the fact that 
he is moving against you must mean that something has 
changed, something that is likely to impact your own 
forces…
Embassy
At 15th level, you are widely respected. No matter how 
hostile an enemy, your summons will bring that enemy to 
the negotiating table to hear your pleas or proposals. This 
is done under a flag of truce and there will be no deception 
on the part of those whom you have summoned. During 
this period of negotiation (usually about an hour) you 
have advantage on any ability checks made against your 
enemy. 
While this may not result in the enemy agreeing to your 
demands, you may have at least bought some time to 
get better prepared or learn more about your foe. Note 
that even the forces of the Dark Lord of Mordor will heed 
such a summons. Though they may choose to spend the 
hour mocking you, you can still glean much between their 
threats and insults.
You can only enforce an audience with an enemy once 
during any particular Adventuring phase, although the 
Loremaster may waive this limitation for particularly 
complex plots or long wars.

--- PAGE 90 ---
Adventures in Middle-earth
90
Herald 
Heralds are warriors as well as scholars, advocating for 
a cause that can motivate others and fighting for their 
beliefs. Heralds seek to witness great deeds of valour first 
hand and sing of what they have seen to others, to inspire 
them in turn.
Bonus Proficiencies
When you choose this expression at 3rd level, you gain 
proficiency in medium armour, shields and martial 
weapons.
Songs of Slaying
The songs of battle resound where Heralds are present. 
Also starting at 3rd level, you may expend one of your 
Warden’s Gift dice to give all of your allies within 30 feet 
an additional d4 on their next attack roll. Alternatively, 
any creature that has one of your Warden’s Gift dice 
may roll the die and add the number rolled to a weapon 
damage roll that they just made.
Extra Attack
Starting at 7th level, you can attack twice, instead of once, 
whenever you take the Attack action on your turn.
Break Resolve
At 11th level, your steely gaze causes lesser foes to falter 
before you. As an action, you may attempt to instil fear 
in one creature within 30 feet of you that can see you 
by making a DC 15 Charisma (Intimidation) check. The 
affected creature must make a Wisdom saving throw (DC 
equals the result of your Charisma check) or gain the 
Frightened condition. You may use this ability only once, 
regaining it after a short rest.
An End Worthy of Song
At 15th level, your stirring words help your allies stand 
against any challenge, even if it is to be their last stand. As 
an action, you can speak words of hope and valour that 
move you and all of your allies within 30 feet, granting each 
of you a +2 bonus on all attack rolls, a pool of temporary 
hit points equal to your Warden level and immunity to 
being Frightened. This effect lasts a number of rounds 
equal to your Charisma modifier +1 (minimum of 1). When 
this ability ends, all those affected lose any remaining 
temporary hit points they gained from this ability and 
suffer one level of exhaustion. You must take a long rest in 
a Sanctuary before you can use this ability again.
Bounder
Bounders protect the simple folk so they can go about 
their lives untroubled by the dangers of the untamed 
wilderness. To walk the path of the Bounders is to be 
forever on the edge of the Wild, patrolling where the tilled 
green fields meet the edge of dark forests. Bounders are 
resilient and near tireless guardians, who stay in the 
darkness, that others may thrive in the light.
Guardian
Starting at 3rd level when you choose this expression, 
when a creature you can see attacks a target within 5 feet 
of you (other than yourself), you can use your reaction to 
impose a disadvantage on the attack roll.
Ceaseless Guard
At 7th level, you can use your reaction in order to interpose 
yourself in front of an attack meant for another. You make 
a Dexterity saving throw with a DC equal to the enemy’s 
attack roll. If you succeed, the attack is automatically 
directed at you. If the ally you’re trying to protect has one 
of your Warden’s Gift dice, you may roll that die and add 
it to your AC against this attack only.
A Creature of Stone and Steel
At 11th level, you have been pounded into unyielding iron. 
You gain a permanent pool of temporary hit points equal 
to 12 + your Constitution modifier. This pool replenishes 
after finishing a long rest.
Unyielding Guard
Starting at 15th level, your skill at protecting yourself and 
others reaches its zenith. You can use your action to utterly 
thwart your enemies. Choose any number of opponents 
within 10 feet of you whose total Hit Dice are equal to or 
less than your own number of Hit Dice. For the following 
round, these opponents do not roll their attack dice – all 
of their attacks automatically miss. You cannot use this 
ability again until you’ve taken a short or long rest.

--- PAGE 91 ---
Classes
91
- Warrior -
“Stay! For you have no errand to the South.” 
“Neither have those others who go with thee. 
They go only because they would not be 
parted from thee - because they love thee.” 
The Wise know that strength is a dangerous gift, and 
whenever arms are taken up in anger fell deeds await.  But 
when the world is on the brink of ruin, it is the duty of all 
those of worth to rise and draw swords, whatever the risk. 
You have decided to put your strength to the service of 
others, to sally forth and join battle in this dark hour. You 
are a warrior abroad, one who has left their hearth and 
home to take the fight to the Enemy. Skilled in the arts of 
war you seek glory on the field of battle.
You fight with discipline and forethought; unlike the oft-
barbaric and brutal fighting style of the Slayer, you are 
either a trained soldier or noticeably controlled and cool-
headed. Even when roused to anger, you are always wise 
in your choice of foes. 
After all, more than your own life hangs in the balance – if 
you die needlessly, what becomes of the cause for which 
you fight? 
Play a Warrior if you want to:
• 
Defend the Free Folk with force of arms
• 
Wear heavy armour and fight with discipline and 
courage
• 
Command followers or master weapons to their 
fullest extent
Class Features
As a Warrior, you gain the following class features. 
Hit Points
Hit Dice: 1d10 per Warrior level
Hit Points at 1st Level: 10 + your Constitution modifier.
Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d10 (or 6) + your 
Constitution modifier per Warrior level after 1st. 
Proficiencies
Armour: All armour, shields
Weapons: Simple weapons, martial weapons
Tools: None
Saving Throws: Strength, Constitution
Skills: Chose two from Acrobatics, Animal Handling, 
Athletics, History, Insight, Intimidation, Perception, Survival, 
and Traditions
Equipment
You start with the following extra equipment, in addition 
to equipment granted by your Standard of Living.

--- PAGE 92 ---
Adventures in Middle-earth
92
Poor or Frugal: A leather corslet, a martial weapon and 
a shield.
Martial: A corslet of mail, a martial weapon, a shield, a 
short bow with a quiver of 20 arrows.
Prosperous: Ring mail, a martial weapon, a shield, a 
short bow or a great bow with a quiver of 20 arrows.
Rich: Heavy mail, a martial weapon, a shield or a great 
shield, a short bow or a great bow with a quiver of 20 
arrows.
Shadow Weakness
Lure of Power
The Warrior
Level
Proficiency 
Bonus
Features
1
+2
Fighting Style, Second 
Wind
2
+2
Action Surge (one use)
3
+2
Martial Archetype Feature
4
+2
Character Improvement
5
+3
Extra Attack
6
+3
Character Improvement
7
+3
Martial Archetype Feature
8
+3
Character Improvement
9
+4
Defender of the Fallen 
10
+4
Martial Archetype Feature
11
+4
Extra Attack (2)
12
+4
Character Improvement
13
+5
Indomitable (one use)
14
+5
Character Improvement
15
+5
Martial Archetype Feature, 
Indomitable (two uses)
16
+5
Character Improvement
17
+6
Action Surge (two uses), 
Indomitable (three uses)
18
+6
Martial Archetype Feature,
19
+6
Character Improvement
20
+6
Extra Attack (3)
Fighting Style
You adopt a particular fighting style as your speciality. 
Choose one of the following options. You can’t take a 
Fighting Style option more than once, even if you later get 
to choose again. 
Archery 
You gain a +2 bonus to attack rolls you make with ranged 
weapons. 
Defence 
While you are wearing armour, you gain a +1 bonus to AC. 
Duelling 
When you are wielding a melee weapon in one hand and 
no other weapons, you gain a +2 bonus to damage rolls 
with that weapon. 
Great Weapon Fighting 
When you roll a 1 or 2 on a damage die for an attack you 
make with a melee weapon that you are wielding with two 
hands, you can re-roll the die and must use the new roll, 
even if the new roll is a 1 or a 2. The weapon must have 
the Two-handed or Versatile property for you to gain this 
benefit. 
Protection 
When a creature you can see attacks a target other than 
you that is within 5 feet of you, you can use your reaction 
to impose disadvantage on the attack roll. You must be 
wielding a shield. 
Two-Weapon Fighting 
When you engage in two-weapon fighting, you can add 
your ability modifier to the damage of the second attack. 
Second Wind
You have a limited well of stamina that you can draw on 
to protect yourself from harm. On your turn, you can use 
a bonus action to regain hit points equal to 1d10 + your 
Warrior level. Once you use this feature, you must finish a 
short or long rest before you can use it again. 
Action Surge
Starting at 2nd level, you can push yourself beyond 
your normal limits for a moment. On your turn, you can 
take one additional action on top of your regular action

--- PAGE 93 ---
Classes
93
and a possible bonus action. Alternatively, if you spend 
Inspiration, you may give your Action Surge to a nearby 
ally as a reaction. The ally must use the Action Surge 
immediately. 
Once you use this feature, you must finish a short or long 
rest before you can use it again. 
Starting at 17th level, you can use it twice before a rest, but 
only once on the same turn. 
Martial Archetype
At 3rd level, you choose an archetype that you strive to 
emulate in your combat styles and techniques. Choose 
Knight or Weaponmaster (both are detailed at the end of 
the class description). 
The archetype you choose grants you features at 3rd level 
and again at 7th, 10th, 15th and 18th level. 
Character Improvement
When you reach 4th level, and again at 6th, 8th, 12th, 
14th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability 
score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability 
scores of your choice by 1, or you can take a Cultural or 
Open Virtue. As normal, you cannot increase an ability 
score above 20 using this feature.
Extra Attack
Beginning at 5th level, you can attack twice, instead of 
once, whenever you take the Attack action on your turn. 
The number of attacks increases to three when you reach 
11th level in this class and to four when you reach 20th 
level in this class. 
Defender of the Fallen
At 9th level, if an ally is reduced to 1/5th or less of their 
maximum hit points by an attack, you may Dash as a 
bonus action as long as your Dash brings you closer to that 
wounded ally. 
Indomitable
Beginning at 13th level, you can re-roll a saving throw that 
you fail. If you do so, you must use the new roll, and you 
can’t use this feature again until you finish a long rest. You 
can use this feature twice between long rests at 15th level, 
and three times between long rests starting at 17th level. 
Warrior Archetypes
"War must be, while we defend our lives against a destroyer 
who would devour all; but I do not love the bright sword for 
its sharpness, nor the arrow for its swiftness, nor the warrior 
for his glory. I love only that which they defend."
A Warrior may choose between two archetypes – the 
stalwart knight and the deadly weaponmaster.
Knight
Sworn to serve and defend a liege lord, the Knight places 
their body between those who would do violence and their 
charge. Steadfast and resolute, a Knight must always be 
alert for danger and ready to intercept it.
Sworn Defender
Upon choosing this archetype at 3rd level you gain the 
ability to nominate a Charge. At the end of a long rest you

--- PAGE 94 ---
Adventures in Middle-earth
94
can name a person or place and swear mighty oaths to 
protect and defend it. This Charge remains until either it 
is killed, or you change your Charge following a long rest. 
While near your Charge, you gain temporary hit points 
equal to your Wisdom bonus plus your Warrior levels.
Alternatively, your liege lord may assign you a task, in 
which case the completion of that quest becomes your 
Charge, and you lose the temporary hit points if, in the 
judgement of the Loremaster, you tarry or stray from your 
quest. 
If your Charge is a place, it becomes a Sanctuary for you 
as long as it remains your Charge (see the Fellowship 
Phase chapter for more information on Sanctuaries).
Marks of Honour
Also at 3rd level, your faithful service is recognised with a 
mark of honour. You gain another mark at 7th , 10th, 15th 
and 18th levels.
Choose from the following marks.
Reward: Gain a Cultural Heirloom from your liege-lord’s 
culture. You may take this mark multiple times. 
Inspiration: You may draw Inspiration from your Charge. 
Once you have gained Inspiration from your Charge, you 
cannot do so again until you finish a long rest. 
Minstrel’s Tales: After completing a task for your liege 
lord, you may declare that your deed has passed into 
song. In any social encounter, improve the starting 
attitude towards you by one step (see the Attitudes table 
on page 193). 
For example, if you would normally be considered a Friend 
by another culture, you are now Favoured in their halls. If 
you would normally be looked upon Askance, they are at 
least now Neutral towards you. If your culture is Unknown 
in these parts, you at least are seen in a Neutral light.
You may take this mark multiple times; each time it 
improves attitudes by one step. 
Of course, if your task insulted or injured another culture, 
then you gain no benefit from having tales sung of your 
deeds in those parts.
For example, if Thranduil sends one of his Knights to 
challenge the best archer in Lake-town to a contest of 
archery, and the Elf-knight wins, then takes this benefit, 
word of the Elf-knight’s prowess with a bow would win her 
friends in all cultures other than Lake-town.
Officer: When you take this mark, you gain four Command 
dice, which are d6s. A Command die is expended when 
you use it. You regain all of your Command dice when you

--- PAGE 95 ---
Classes
95
finish a short or long rest. As a bonus action you can give 
a Command die to any ally who serves your liege-lord, is 
within 60 feet and in line of sight. That ally can roll their 
Command die and add the number rolled to any ability 
check, attack or damage roll. 
Only fellow Knights or soldiers of your liege lord can 
benefit from this ability. You may only give these dice to 
fellow player-heroes if they have been introduced to your 
liege and been accepted as allies of your cause.
Knight’s Strike: You may spend Inspiration to strike with 
added fury, adding 3d6 damage to your attack. 
Famed Protector
At 15th level, so long as you are within 30 feet of your 
Charge, you are immune to the Charmed, Frightened and 
Stunned conditions. Furthermore, you cannot become 
unconscious or incapacitated unless you have failed three 
death saves (at which point you die). 
Sacrifice
At 18th level, any time your Charge takes hit point damage 
or suffers a condition, if you are within 30 feet of your 
charge you may throw yourself in harm’s way, suffering 
the damage or condition instead. If the source of damage 
or condition grants a saving throw, you are assumed to 
have failed it; however, if it is an ongoing condition that 
grants saving throws, you may attempt them as normal 
beginning on the round after you used this feature. 
Weaponmaster
Seeking mastery over themselves as opposed to others, 
the Weaponmaster specialises in a style of fighting, 
sometimes even a specific weapon, to a degree other 
warriors can only dream of. 
Style Focus
When you choose this archetype at 3rd level, you become 
even more fearsome a foe with your chosen Fighting Style. 
The Fighting Style chosen at 1st level gains additional 
abilities. 
Archery 
You may spend your action aiming. If you attack with your 
bow next turn, you gain a +2 bonus to the attack and do 
not suffer disadvantage for attacking at long range.  
Defence 
You ignore disadvantage to Stealth checks due to your 
armour. 
Duelling 
When you are wielding a melee weapon in one hand and 
no other weapons, you may exchange your +2 bonus to 
damage from Duelling for up to a +2 bonus to attack. 
Great Weapon Fighting 
You have advantage while wielding a weapon with the 
Two-handed or Versatile traits if you are fighting against a 
creature your size or smaller.

--- PAGE 96 ---
Adventures in Middle-earth
96
Protection 
As a bonus action you may attack with your shield, inflicting 
1d6 + Strength modifier points of damage on a hit.
Two-Weapon Fighting 
When wielding two weapons, you may forsake an attack 
with either one to give the next opponent to attack you 
disadvantage on their attack roll. 
Masteries
Also at 3rd level, you have mastered a specific weapon. You 
gain another mastery at 7th , 10th, 15th and 18th levels.
Choose from the following masteries.
Birthright
You have acquired a weapon of fine make and long 
lineage. Give your weapon a name. When you first acquire 
this weapon, you gain advantage on any Charisma 
(Intimidation) or (Persuasion) ability checks while you 
carry it. At 3rd level, the weapon grants a +1 bonus to all 
attack and damage rolls. At 7th level the weapon gains 
one of the following qualities, and gains a further quality 
at 10th and 15th level.
	
• 
Balanced: At the start of your turn, you may transfer 
the weapon’s bonus to attack to your AC. This bonus 
remains until the start of your next turn. 
	
• 
Baleful: A baleful weapon inflicts a critical hit on a 
natural roll of 19 or 20. 
	
• 
Bitter: The weapon now grants a +2 bonus to all 
attack and damage rolls, instead of +1. 
• 
Enduring: Enduring weapons cannot be broken by 
mischance or the attacks of enemies.
• 
Infamous: Your enemies know the name of your 
weapon, and it strikes fear into their hearts. Pick a 
group (Dunlendings, Haradrim, Wainriders, Orcs, 
Trolls, Spiders, or a similar group); whenever you inflict 
a critical hit with your weapon, all nearby creatures of 
the chosen group must make a Wisdom save (at DC 
8 + your proficiency bonus + either your Strength or 
Dexterity modifier, as you see fit) or be Frightened of 
your weapon for the rest of the battle. 
• 
Vicious: On a natural roll of a 20, this weapon inflicts 
+7 damage. 
Force of Will
You have truly become one with your weapon; it acts as 
an extension of your will and you will not be denied. Any 
damage dealt by this weapon is considered to deal radiant 
damage, enabling it to bypass resistances and immunities 
that normally protect against your weapon type.
Guild Member
You have gained membership in an organisation of 
warriors, such as the Bowman’s Guild of Lake-town 
or the Royal Archers of Dale. That organisation’s base 
becomes a Sanctuary for you and any companions, and 
the organisation will happily provide support for your 
endeavours in the form of food, shelter, access to training 
grounds and lore, and other means short of marching to 
war (though they might be convinced to do so). 
Lethal
You know how to strike and strike hard. Your attacks add 
your proficiency bonus or your ability modifier; whichever 
is higher, to their damage. 
You must be 10th level or higher to take this Mastery.
Old Enemies
Choose a foe, preferably one you personally have fought 
or your people regularly battle against. You gain that foe’s 
language and have advantage on Charisma (Deception) 
and (Intimidation), and Wisdom (Insight) ability checks 
involving them. When you are fighting against your 
chosen foe, whenever you roll for damage, you can re-roll 
your weapon’s damage dice and use either total.
Weaponmaster’s Challenge
Nominate another ally in this battle. As long as the number 
of enemies you have slain in this encounter remains within 
3 of the number of enemies the nominated ally has slain, 
you both gain a +1 bonus to attacks. After you have used 
this ability, you cannot use it again until you have finished 
a long rest.

--- PAGE 97 ---
Classes
97

--- PAGE 99 ---
We fought on the East track to old Fornost. Orcs in numbers we have 
not seen in many a year, fell handed and girt for war. They came 
upon us without warning, and we were taken by surprise. Odd that 
they were so bold.  We were victorious, but at no small cost and the 
fighting was fierce. I am sorely wounded, and I fear were it not for  
what remains of my ancient blood I too would have joined the fallen. 
Somehow I stayed on my feet and kept sword in hand. Gilraen is hurt 
too, but we have her to thank for warning us. She still has the gifts of 
old, and sees things we do not. 
 
I am tired, brother. But we won this day at least. Hurry to us, we 
have need of your aid and the hour is late.
Virtues

--- PAGE 100 ---
Adventures in Middle-earth
100
- virtues -
“But I say: let a ploughman plough, but choose 
an otter for swimming, and for running light 
over grass and leaf or over snow – an Elf.”
Virtues are special gifts and talents, usually associated 
with a particular culture. All members of a Mannish 
culture start with a single virtue: choose one from the 
list related to your character’s Culture, or from the list of 
Open Virtues, which are available to every culture. Elves, 
Dwarves and Hobbits do not receive a starting Virtue. 
All Player-heroes may choose to gain a virtue instead of 
improving their ability scores at 4th, 8th, 12th 16th and 
19th levels. 
Open Virtues
Open Virtues are virtues that can be taken by any culture.
Cultural Heirloom 
Prerequisite: 4th level or higher
Your efforts on behalf of your people have not gone 
unnoticed – you are gifted an item of your choice from the 
list of your people’s Cultural Heirlooms, (see list starting 
on page 156). If lost or broken, heirlooms can be replaced 
at Sanctuaries. See the Loremaster’s Guide for more 
information on Sanctuaries.
Dour-handed
Prerequisite: 8th level or higher
When you throw a weapon or bend your bow, your hand 
is steady and your aim is sure.
Raise the damage of all of your successful ranged attacks 
by half your proficiency bonus, rounded up. 
Expertise
You have practised a skill until it has become as natural 
as breathing.
Choose a skill you are proficient in. Double your proficiency 
bonus on skill checks made with the chosen skill.
Fell-handed
Prerequisite: 8th level or higher
You have learned to put all your strength into your blows 
in hand-to-hand battle.
Raise the damage of all of your successful melee attacks 
by half your proficiency bonus, rounded up. 
Sturdy
You descend from a hardy line and recover far more 
quickly than most others.

--- PAGE 101 ---
Virtues
101
You may re-roll Hit Dice spent during short rests and take 
the higher result.
Barding Cultural Virtues
Birthright
"Bard is not lost!" he cried. "He dived from Esgaroth, when 
the enemy was slain. I am Bard, of the line of Girion; I am 
the slayer of the Dragon!"
Before the coming of the Dragon, there were noble houses 
in Dale, with famed lords who were bold and famously 
hard to kill. You are a direct descendant of one of the 
ancient illustrious households that were powerful in the 
city of Dale of old. You receive a +1 bonus on all Dexterity 
saving throws. If you are reduced to 0 hit points, but 
not killed outright, you are considered to have already 
successfully passed 1 death saving throw.
Fierce Shot
The great bow twanged … the arrow smote and vanished, 
barb, shaft and feather…
You have learnt to bend your bow so fiercely that you hear 
its string crack like a whip when it sends its arrows flying.
Roll your damage die twice and keep the better result.
King’s Men
But there was still a company of archers that held their 
ground among the burning houses.
The former glory of the proud hosts of Dale has been 
restored by King Bard, and so the martial discipline that 
once made the city powerful is again imparted to all young 
men and women alike, lest the city be caught unprepared 
by assailants. You have sworn to protect the city and its 
king with your life, and in return you are regularly trained 
by the most expert swordsmen and bowmen of the realm.
Choose two weapons from the following list: broadswords, 
long swords, spears, and great bows. You gain proficiency 
in your two chosen weapons and a +1 bonus to attack 
rolls made with them.
Swordmaster
…and beside them came the men of the Lake with long 
swords.
A skilled warrior can use their sword to deflect blows that 
would have otherwise hit their mark. You have learnt to 
fight defensively using your weapon to full advantage.
When fighting with either a broadsword or a long sword, 
add your proficiency bonus to your AC.
Woeful Foresight 
"You are always foreboding gloomy things!" said the 
others. "Anything from floods to poisoned fish. Think of 
something cheerful!"
Many citizens of ancient Dale found themselves blessed 
– or cursed – by a sort of foresight following Smaug’s 
destruction of the city. As a descendant of one of these 
bloodlines, you share this gift.

--- PAGE 102 ---
Adventures in Middle-earth
102
Sometimes, you feel a sense of foreboding that warns you 
of impending catastrophe and other gloomy events. But 
the future is always uncertain, and sometimes what you 
foresee never materialises.
Raise your Wisdom score by 1 point. Additionally, once 
every Adventuring phase, you may invoke your power 
of Woeful Foresight. When this happens, the Loremaster 
should give you a relevant piece of information regarding 
adverse events likely to occur during your current 
adventure. 
If no such information is available – or the Loremaster 
prefers not to divulge it – once, before the current 
Adventuring phase is over, you may choose to 
automatically succeed at either an attack roll, a saving 
throw or an ability check (your foresight led to a sudden 
bout of insight or deeper understanding that helped you 
at a key moment).
Your foresight manifests in many forms: it can be a hazy 
vision, a recurring and enigmatic dream, or a cryptic 
message borne by a talking bird.
Beorning Cultural Virtues
Brothers to Bears
"I once saw him sitting all alone on the top of the Carrock 
at night watching the moon sinking towards the Misty 
Mountains, and I heard him growl in the tongue of 
bears…"
Beorn has taught you to heed the call of an ancient animal 
heritage. When the moon is high in the sky and the world 
is fully revealed in an argentine glow, no sound escapes 
your ears, as the night speaks to you in the language of 
the Wild.
From now on your sight and hearing are greatly enhanced 
at night, and let you see or hear better than under the light 
of the sun, and at a greater distance. At night, you have 
advantage on all Wisdom (Perception) ability checks, you 
are considered proficient in the Perception skill and you 
add double your proficiency bonus to checks, instead of 
your normal proficiency bonus.
Great Strength
Standing near was a huge man with a thick black beard 
and hair, and great bare arms and legs with knotted 
muscles.
Increase your Strength score by 1. As long as you can 
move freely while fighting, you may profit from your great 
strength and nimbleness. 
If you are using the variant encumbrance rules treat 
your encumbrance as one step lower. For example, if you 
would be heavily encumbered, you would only count as 
encumbered..
Night-goer 
As the light faded, Bilbo thought he saw away to the right, 
or to the left, the shadowy form of a great bear prowling 
along in the same direction.

--- PAGE 103 ---
Virtues
103
At night you can choose to slip into a dream-like state, and 
leave your body in spirit form to swiftly travel along the 
tracks made by animals across the length and breadth of 
Wilderland. 
In this state, you can swiftly explore an area within three 
days of travel, until sunrise wakes you. While this will not 
give you every detail, you will have a very good idea of the 
surrounding terrain and where danger may lurk.
Your spirit form takes the appearance of a full-grown bear. 
It is visible to onlookers, and leaves tracks on the ground. 
While you are outside your body, any action you attempt is 
resolved using ability checks as usual, but any strenuous 
activity that causes a loss of hit points wakes you up. 
Any harm suffered while travelling in spirit form is 
transferred to your body at the moment of awakening. 
Once you’ve used this ability, it cannot be used again until 
you finish a long rest.
Skin-coat
…nothing could withstand him, and no weapon seemed to 
bite upon him.
Tales say that a warrior’s own courage will turn steel and 
iron better than the smith’s hammer-work.
So long as you wear no armour of any kind, you have 
resistance to non-magical piercing damage.
Twice-baked Honey-cakes
The making of these was one of his secrets; but honey was in 
them, as in most of his foods…
The honey-cakes of the Beornings are legendary among 
travellers. You can march far by eating just a little of 
them, and they are much more pleasant than cram, the 
waybread that Dale-men make for journeys in the wild. 
You have been shown the secret of baking such cakes, and 
can prepare them for the consumption of all members of 
your company.
When you are on a journey, you and your fellow travelers 
may remove the first level of exhaustion you acquire.
Dúnedain Cultural Virtues
Dauntless Guardians
"…when dark things come from houseless hills, or creep 
from sunless woods, they fly from us."
You have been raised in a land dotted with desolate ruins 
and burial mounds. You have heard the dead whisper 
with cold voices out of lonely barrows, while ghostly lights 
dance on haunted hills. There are few among mortal Men 
who know more about evil spirits or fear them less than 
you do…
When you first select this virtue you learn how to See the 
Unseen. You may later reinforce your spirit with Strength 
of Will by learning it as your undertaking during a 
Fellowship phase. Finally, you reach the stature of a true 
Wraith Bane by training as a new undertaking during a 
later Fellowship phase.

--- PAGE 104 ---
Adventures in Middle-earth
104
See the Unseen
It is said that the Elven-wise can perceive shades and 
wraiths that are otherwise invisible to the eyes of Mortals. 
You have been taught to recognise the signs that betray the 
haunting of a restless spirit. You are automatically aware 
of the presence or proximity of ghosts, shades and wraiths 
of any kind. A successful DC 15 Intelligence (Lore) ability 
check yields additional information on the nature of the 
haunting.
Strength of Will
In moments of fear, your will can strengthen your heart, 
so that you can withstand the great terror awakened in all 
Mortals by the denizens of the Unseen world.
When an Undead creature forces you to make a Wisdom 
saving throw against Corruption or any effect that may 
cause the Frightened condition, you may add your 
proficiency bonus to the check. If you roll either a 19 or 20 
to pass the check, you can allow a number of companions 
equal to your Wisdom modifier to pass their own checks 
automatically.
Wraith Bane
In long centuries of secret strife, the things that hide among 
the ruins of Arnor have learnt to fear the fell Dúnedain. All 
of your attacks cause +2 damage to Undead creatures that 
can be affected by your weapons.
Endurance of the Dúnedain
"Hardy is the race of Elendil!"
The Dúnedain have long endured war against Mordor and 
the forces of the Great Enemy. They are slow to weary and 
endure burdens stoically. In battle they are fearsome foes, 
often able to fight on against overwhelming odds and in 
spite of grievous wounds.
When a blow reduces you to 0 hit points, but does not kill 
you outright, you may spend Inspiration to regain 1 hit 
point, remain conscious and continue to take actions.
Foresight of their Kindred
"And I say to you: if you pass the doors of Moria, beware!"
The Dúnedain still have in a measure the powerful 
foresight their ancestors possessed in full before their race 
was diminished. Some Dúnedain perceive the future in 
dreams, others catch sudden glimpses of what is to be 
with their waking eyes.
Raise your Wisdom score by 1 point. 
Additionally, once every Adventuring phase, you may 
invoke your power of Foresight by spending Inspiration. 
When this happens, the Loremaster should give you a 
relevant piece of information regarding important events 
likely to occur during your current adventure. You can 
seldom foresee exactly what is to befall, but you may gain 
clear images of where you should go, places to be wary of, 
a wanderer you can trust and so forth.
If no such information is available – or the Loremaster 
prefers not to divulge it – once, before the current 
Adventuring phase is over, you may choose to automatically 
succeed at either an attack roll, a saving throw or an ability 
check (your Foresight led to a sudden bout of insight or 
deeper understanding that helped you at a key moment).
Royalty Revealed
Aragorn threw back his cloak. The elven-sheath glittered as 
he grasped it, and the bright blade of Andúril shone like a 
sudden flame as he swept it out. "Elendil!" he cried.
Northern Dúnedain only.
The Rangers of the North belong to a bloodline of Kings, but 
they have learnt to hide from their enemies in the twilight 
years of their kingdom. Should you choose to reveal your 
heritage, your noble bearing will cause your enemies to 
pause, and your allies to cast away their doubts.
You may take a bonus action to reveal yourself in battle, by 
shouting an ancestral battle-cry or unsheathing a weapon 
of high lineage, for example, or by showing a device or 
coat-of-arms during an encounter with someone.
Your allies within 10 feet immediately recover 1d6 + your 
Charisma modifier in hit points. Your enemies within 10 
feet must make a Wisdom saving throw against a DC 
equal to 15+ your Charisma modifier. Failure means they 
are Frightened of you for 1 minute. While Frightened in 
this way, a creature must spend its turns trying to move 
as far away from you as it can, and it cannot willingly 
move to a space within 30 feet of you. It also cannot take

--- PAGE 105 ---
Virtues
105
reactions. For its action, it can use only the Dash action or 
try to escape from an effect that prevents it from moving. 
If it has nowhere it can move, the creature can use the 
Dodge action.
Any enemy Frightened in this manner thereafter gains the 
Hatred (Dúnedain) Shadow Action and will seek to attack 
you and your kindred whenever given the opportunity. 
In a social encounter, by revealing yourself, if the individual 
you are speaking with respects anything of the legacy of 
Númenor or the Dúnedain, you are treated as if you were 
Favoured by whomever you speak with. Additionally, you 
receive a +2 bonus to Charisma based proficiency ability 
checks until the end of the present encounter.
Both versions of this ability can each be used once during 
each Adventuring phase.
Sterner than Steel
He stood up, and seemed suddenly to grow taller. In his eyes 
gleamed a light, keen and commanding.
You resist Shadow corruption better than most, for your 
spirit is resolute, and your mind is not easily overthrown.
Raise your Wisdom score by 1 point. You have advantage 
on Wisdom saving throws against Corruption.
Dwarves of The Lonely Mountain 
Cultural Virtues
Broken Spells
The Dwarves of yore made mighty spells,
While hammers fell like ringing bells.
You have been taught some long-remembered fragments of 
old spells that retain power to this day. Some require you 
to cut or engrave a Runic inscription, usually in stone or 
metal, or sometimes carved in wood. You can learn a total 
of three such spells: Secrecy, Prohibition and Exclusion, 
and Opening and Shutting.
You learn one spell when you first select this virtue, and 
you may learn a new one as your undertaking during 
later Fellowship phases.
Spells of Opening and Shutting
This fragment must be recited in front of a door or gate, 
to magically lock it, or recited backwards to open it if 
locked. The spell has no effect on a door that has been 
blocked by magic and now requires a particular word to 
open it. Attempts to break down the door have their DC 
increased by 10. The spell starts working as soon as you 
have finished reciting it. 
Spells of Prohibition and Exclusion
This Runic inscription is usually placed on gates and on 
doors, to protect an area from unwanted visitors. You may 
carve these signs on a rock or on the bark of a tree within 
the perimeter of your camp, and their power will wake you 
at the first sign of danger. Carve the runes and go to sleep. 
You will immediately awaken if any threatening presence 
approaches within 30 feet of your camp.
Spells of Secrecy
Carve these runes on a concealed door, personal hiding 
place or object, and it will be noticed only if someone

--- PAGE 106 ---
Adventures in Middle-earth
106
searches for it with great care. These signs are invisible to 
the untrained eye as long as the power within them is still 
working; they can only be seen and read when the spell is 
spent or broken.
The object concealed by the spell can only be found on a 
DC 30 Intelligence (Investigation) ability check, unless the 
searcher is a Dwarf, in which case the DC is 15.
Durin’s Way
That was the beginning of the War of the Dwarves and the 
Orcs, which was long and deadly, and fought for the most 
part in deep places beneath the earth.
You have been taught how to defend yourself while 
fighting under the surface of the earth. You know how to 
exploit corners, darkness and other natural obstacles to 
your advantage.
When fighting underground, you gain a +1 bonus to your 
Armour Class and Dexterity saving throws.
Old Hatred
"Baruk Khazâd! Khazâd ai-mênu!" An axe swung and 
swept back. Two Orcs fell headless.
When you face your kin’s most hated enemies you feel the 
strength of your ancestors, slain by the foul hands of Orcs, 
flowing impetuously in your veins.
When you are fighting Orcs, Goblins and their kind using 
a melee weapon, whenever you roll for damage, you can 
re-roll your weapon’s damage dice and use either total.
Ravens of the Mountain
There used to be great friendship between them and the 
people of Thrór…
You have befriended a raven of the ancient breed living 
around the Lonely Mountain. Long-lived and able to 
speak the Common Tongue, these birds are often wise 
companions, bound to your kin by ties of old friendship. 
Many times in the past they have provided invaluable 
help by gathering news or sending messages for your folk.
If you are in Wilderland, your raven friend is never far 
away. You can sound a call and summon him to your 
presence in a matter of minutes. As soon as he joins you, 
you may command him.
Usually, the raven is eager to please you, but an unusual or 
less than reasonable request might put their faithfulness to 
the test and require a DC 15 Charisma (Persuasion) ability 
check. The raven does not ask for anything in return, but 
repeated requests over a short time might sooner or later 
lead him to feel entitled to compensation (his precise terms 
are up to the Loremaster, and might lead to interesting 
story developments).
The time needed for a raven to complete the errand 
depends on the request, on the distance to be covered 
and on the complexity of the assignment. A raven flies at 
an average speed of 30 miles per hour (enough to cross 
the whole width of Mirkwood in one day). The following 
list shows some of the possible errands you can assign 
to your winged ally, but should in no way limit your 
inventiveness.
Bring Tidings: A raven is always well informed about the 
latest events concerning the Wild, and is eager to report 
them.
Carry Messages: The raven can deliver messages 
anywhere in the region, passing its content to others of 
his kin.
Investigate: The raven can be sent to gather information 
on a specific subject. It must be something naturally 
accessible to one of its kind.
Carry Food: A raven might be persuaded to carry some 
food if able to steal or borrow it from a location within a 
day’s flight.
 The Stiff Neck of Dwarves
"…yet he was ever a Dwarf with a stiff neck."
Dwarves are deemed to be stubborn and unyielding. 
Their natural inclination to persevere against all odds is 
strengthened by the taint of the Shadow.
If your current Shadow score is greater than half your 
Wisdom score, you get a +1 bonus to all non-combat 
ability checks not involving Charisma.

--- PAGE 107 ---
Virtues
107
Elves of Mirkwood 
Cultural Virtues
Deadly Archery
… their small knives … would have been of no use against the 
arrows of the Elves that could hit a bird’s eye in the dark.
Most members of your kin possess a natural talent for 
hitting the mark when using their bows. You seem to 
possess that quality yourself, as your arrows find their 
target with uncanny precision.
When making ranged attacks with a short bow, you do 
not suffer disadvantage for long range, nor for attacking 
within 5 feet.
Dreams of Elder Days 
"…he could sleep, if sleep it could be called by Men, resting 
his mind in the strange paths of elvish dreams, even as he 
walked open-eyed in the light of this world."
You have learnt to recover from your exertions even while 
engaging in a repetitive task, like walking, or rowing in a 
boat. When engaged in such a task, you may spend hit 
dice to heal in the same way as a short rest..
Shadow Bane
The Elves were the first to charge. Their hatred for the 
Goblins is cold and bitter.
Your folk have suffered grievous losses during many 
wars against the Shadow. Even the passing of centuries 
cannot quell the bitter hate that your kindred harbour 
for the Enemy. When you are fighting in melee combat 
against the servants of the Shadow (including Spiders, 
Orcs, Trolls and Evil Men), you have a +1 bonus to your 
attack rolls.
The Speakers
"Only I hear the stones lament them: deep they delved us, 
fair they wrought us, high they builded us; but they are 
gone."
You have learnt how to engage in simple communication 
with almost everything, from any living being to grass, 
stone and water. This means, for example, that you can 
hear mutterings from the stones in a path if others trod it 
recently, or sing to soothe an unquiet animal.
To use this gift you must make an appropriate ability 
check. Which skill you use depends on what you are trying 
to do and is at the Loremaster’s discretion. Here are a few 
examples: to interpret the grumblings of the stones in a 
path requires an Intelligence (Investigation) ability check; 
to sooth a scared horse requires a Charisma (Persuasion) 
ability check; to listen to the voice of a river requires a 
Wisdom (Insight) ability check. 
Most objects are of limited, if any, sentience and can 
seldom provide exacting details, especially since they 
seldom pay much attention to things that don’t directly 
concern them. Animals, likewise, have their own priorities, 
but will convey basic information that they know. 
Note that this virtue does not give the Elf an ability to 
speak the various tongues of animals, merely enough to 
understand the gist of what they would convey. After using 
this ability, you must take a short rest before using it again.

--- PAGE 108 ---
Adventures in Middle-earth
108
Wood-elf Magic 
Though their magic was strong, even in those days they 
were wary.
You are mastering what mortals might call ‘Elf-magic.’ You 
learn how to fling a Stinging Arrow when you first select 
this virtue. You may later master the making of Elf-lights 
as your undertaking during a Fellowship phase; spending 
a third, and final, Fellowship phase undertaking allows 
you to discover the secret of Enchanted Sleep.
Stinging Arrow
You can make an arrow flicker as if with a magical fire, 
making it fly true.
Spend a Hit Die to make an automatic ranged critical hit. 
Elf-lights
You know how to make a torch or a lamp burn with a 
peculiar flame that attracts all mortals who see it. Spend 
Inspiration to light a torch, or a lamp. Any speaking 
creature who sees its flame must make a DC 15 Wisdom 
saving throw, or try to get near it by any means possible. 
You may snuff out the light at will, even from a distance, 
either to extinguish the flame quickly and quietly, or to 
cause it to flare suddenly to blind and confuse your 
enemies. Enemies must succeed at an additional DC 15 
Wisdom saving throw, or have disadvantage on all they 
do for the following round.
Enchanted Sleep
Having used an Elf-light to attract an unwary victim, you 
can enchant him into slumber.
You may snuff out your Elf-light when someone enters the 
area illuminated by the light. The first living creature with 
a number of Hit Dice equal to or lower than your number 
of Hit Dice to fail its Wisdom saving throw against the 
Elf-light drops immediately into an Enchanted Sleep.
A creature that succumbs to an Enchanted Sleep 
immediately falls unconscious and will remain that way 
until 10 minutes pass, they take damage, or someone uses 
an action to shake or slap them awake.
Hobbits of the Shire 
Cultural Virtues
Art of Disappearing 
There is little or no magic about them, except the ordinary 
everyday sort which helps them to disappear quietly and 
quickly when large stupid folk like you and me come 
blundering along…
You have learnt to choose exactly the right moment 
to turn away from the attention of others, sometimes 
unconsciously anticipating the need to disappear. At the 
start of an encounter where the location you are in is 
entered by newcomers, and if the location offers even the 
smallest opportunity to hide or sneak silently away, you 
can expend Inspiration to disappear. You could slip into a 
convenient shadowy corner, a thick patch of undergrowth, 
a crowded room, a sharp bend in a passage underground 
or any other potentially concealing feature – the final 
decision on whether there is available concealment lies 
with the Loremaster.

--- PAGE 109 ---
Virtues
109
No roll is needed, and you are considered to be present 
in the area, but unseen to the eyes of the interlopers – 
all Wisdom (Perception) ability checks to find you will 
automatically fail. 
If the newly arrived individuals knew that you were 
present, it is as if you actually disappeared into thin air. 
You can at any moment choose to reveal yourself, simply 
stepping into the open from your hiding place.
Brave at a Pinch 
Then something Tookish woke up inside him, and he wished 
to go and see the great mountains, and hear the pine-trees 
and the waterfalls, and explore the caves, and wear a sword 
instead of a walking-stick.
One of the Wise once said that you have to put a Hobbit 
in a tight place before you find out what is in them (the 
problem being that they try their best to avoid tight 
places…).
You may take an action and spend a Hit Die to martial your 
spirit for a fight. For the length of the following combat, 
you are immune to the Frightened condition, and are 
unaffected by the penalties derived from any exhaustion 
levels that you may have. You must take a long rest before 
you can use this ability again.
Fair Shot
As a boy he used to practise throwing stones at things, until 
rabbits and squirrels, and even birds, got out of his way as 
quick as lightning if they saw him stoop.
You have spent a great deal of your time practising with all 
sorts of throwing games, and your accuracy is exceptional.
You gain a +1 bonus to attack rolls made with simple 
ranged weapons.
Small Folk
Pippin stabbed upwards, and the written blade of 
Westernesse pierced through the hide and went deep into the 
vitals of the Troll, and his black blood came gushing out.
You have learnt how to gain an advantage in a fight from 
being smaller than most of your opponents. When you are 
being attacked in melee combat by a creature bigger than 
you (very often), you can take a bonus action to step into 
the same square as your opponent. You have advantage 
on your attack rolls against that opponent, until your 
opponent chooses to take a step back to attack you (which 
will provoke an opportunity attack).
Tough in the Fibre
…they can move very quietly, and hide easily, and recover 
wonderfully from falls and bruises…
Your small stature belies your toughness. When regaining 
hit points, you may roll any Hit Die twice and add the 
results together. 
Men of Bree Cultural Virtues
Desperate Courage
"Are you still willing to help me?’ ‘I am,’ said Mr. Butterbur. 
‘More than ever."

--- PAGE 110 ---
Adventures in Middle-earth
110
You lived all your life on the edge of the Wild, but the 
worst news that came to Bree in your time only concerned 
brigands or packs of hungry wolves. Now that you know 
something about the Shadow in the East, you are sure you 
will stand against it should the darkness extend this far 
west and threaten all that you love.
If you stand alone against an adversary with Hit Dice 
greater than your level +3, or are part of a group fighting 
against a single adversary with Hit Dice greater than your 
level +6, you gain a +1 bonus to your Armour Class. You 
may consult the Loremaster on when this bonus may be 
used.
Friendly and Inquisitive
"Drink, fire, and chance-meeting are pleasant enough, but, 
well – this isn’t the Shire."
Since you started your adventures, you have realised 
that your folk’s custom of trading with foreigners on 
a regular basis may help you in your endeavours. You 
have perfected your ability to inquire about the doings of 
strangers without letting curiosity get the better of you, 
providing you with many safe opportunities to learn from 
those you meet along the way. And the road goes ever on...
You are proficient in Traditions and whenever you make 
an Intelligence (Traditions) ability check, you add double 
your proficiency bonus to the check, instead of the normal 
proficiency bonus. Additionally, the starting attitude 
of folks from other cultures towards you is adjusted to 
Friendly when you first interact with them during a social 
encounter.
Out of Memory and Old Tales
"Bree memories being retentive, Frodo was asked many 
times if he had written his book."
Luckily, very few Bree-men have ‘a memory like a lumber-
room’, where things wanted always end up buried. You 
have found that you rarely forget a face, the details of a 
story, the particulars of a map, or even the type of tracks 
that a band of Orcs you already faced leaves behind. 
You have learnt to exploit this insight to outguess your 
adversaries and those you meet, and to plan your journeys 
carefully. Once per Adventuring phase, you may re-roll a 
failed skill check. 
The Big and the Little
There were probably many more Outsiders scattered about 
in the West of the World in those days than the people of the 
Shire imagined.
Men and Hobbits live side by side in Bree, in a peaceful 
arrangement that is found nowhere else in the world. 
That’s why you know Hobbits and their ways very well 
indeed, and you go along with them quite nicely. You have 
discovered that this friendliness and familiarity, combined 
with your natural cheerfulness, can be a blessing when 
travelling with others.
Once per journey, you may return a Hit Die (up to their 
maximum) to one of your travelling companions. If you 
are travelling with a Hobbit you may additionally return 
a Hit Die (up to their maximum) to that companion at the 
same time. 
Traveller’s Blessing
"Good luck to your road, and good luck to your 
homecoming."
Your feet become more eager when you turn for home. You 
have advantage on ability checks made when making a 
journey to a Sanctuary that you are welcome even if prior 
events or the Embarkation Roll dictates otherwise.
Men of the Lake Cultural Virtues
Bowman of the Guild
A hail of dark arrows leaped up…
You have demonstrated a talent worthy of admission to 
the Bowmen’s Guild of Esgaroth, a honourable association 
uniting the best archers of Lake-town. Now you may train 
and share secrets of the trade with many old friends of 
Bard the Bowman himself, all veterans of the Battle of Five 
Armies.
All of your ranged attacks with bows and great bows have a 
+1 damage bonus. Additionally, after you make a successful 
ranged attack with a bow or great bow, you may take a 
bonus action to re-roll the weapon’s damage dice and use 
either total. You must take a short rest or a long rest before 
you can use the damage re-roll ability again.

--- PAGE 111 ---
Virtues
111
Merchant Prince 
Lake-town was refounded and was more prosperous than 
ever, and much wealth went up and down the Running 
River…
Your family’s fortune is rising with the reopening of the 
trading routes that lead to the markets in the South and 
East. This increased affluence has started to positively 
affect your adventuring life, as you may choose a servant 
from those employed in your household and have him 
join you in your next endeavour. 
At the start of an Adventuring phase you may pick one 
servant to accompany you. These servants are loyal to 
your house, and have served your family for generations, 
which is why they are willing to accompany you into 
danger. 
Their courage is born out of loyalty, not greed – other 
servants and guards are unlikely to follow you into the 
wild lands for anything short of a king’s ransom in gold. 
Page: A page assists you in all your daily routines, like 
washing and dressing, and takes care of your clothes and 
gear. He is at your side during any encounter, making sure 
that you are properly introduced and providing advice 
and counsel on all he notices. When you enjoy the help of 
a page, you have advantage when making any Insight or 
Traditions checks.
Porter: A porter helps helps you in carrying your gear 
when you are adventuring. Travelling with a porter allows 
you to immediately remove the first level of exhaustion 
you acquire during a journey.
Scrivener: A scrivener is a personal servant who can read 
and write. He is well-learned and keeps a daily record of 
your exploits. If you are employing a scrivener you have 
advantage on all History and Lore rolls.
A servant in a rich trading family is usually a young 
person, often a minor relative of modest ambitions. 
Regardless of his duty, your servant is no fighting man, 
but is considered to be always around and eager to 
perform his assigned task. 
Servant
Medium human
STR 
11 (+0)
DEX 
12 (+1)
CON 
12 (+1)
INT 
11 (+0)
WIS 
11 (+0)
CHA 
10 (+0)
Armour Class 12 (leather corslet)
Hit Points 11 (2d8+2)
Speed 30 ft.
Skills Perception +2 (Page: Insight +2, Traditions 
+2; Porter: Survival +2, Athletics +2; Scrivener: 
History +2, Lore +2)
Senses passive Perception 12
Actions
Club. Melee Weapon Attack: +2 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
Hit: 2 (1d4) bludgeoning damage. 
Shield-fighting
There had been fleets of boats on the waters, and some were 
filled with gold and some with warriors in armour…
You have learnt to wield a shield like the boatmen of 
Esgaroth do when they fight to repel enemies trying to 
board their ships.
If you are fighting in melee with a shield you can use a 
bonus action to make a melee combat attack with your 
shield. You add your Strength ability modifier to the 
attack roll but not to a successful damage roll. Shields 
cause 1d4 bludgeoning damage, great shields cause 1d8 
bludgeoning damage. 
Trader’s Savvy
They still throve on the trade that came up the great river 
from the South…
Some say that “fair speech may hide a foul heart”, but you 
have lived among merchants and traders long enough 
to know that while pleasant words are always received 
better than harsh ones, sometimes your speech must be as 
sharp as any blade. You have advantage on all Charisma 
ability checks when involved in direct negotiation against 
one other person.

--- PAGE 112 ---
Adventures in Middle-earth
112
Water Legs
As soon as the raft of barrels came in sight boats rowed out 
from the piles of the town…
Life on the Lake has taught you how to move appropriately 
when on board a boat. Now that you have taken up 
adventuring you can exploit your superior balance to your 
advantage even when on dry land.
You always have advantage on Dexterity (Acrobatics) 
ability checks and any saving throws involving keeping 
your footing, such as when fighting on a boat, a raft or 
other precarious or risky surfaces (for example, an Elven 
tree platform, a rope bridge or on an icy lake). 
In addition, you can always choose to substitute Dexterity 
for Strength when making Athletics checks involving 
swimming. 
Men of Minas Tirith
Captain of Gondor
"By our valour are the wild folk of the East still restrained, 
and the terror of Morgul kept at bay …"
The Men of Minas Tirith have long endured war against 
Mordor and the forces of the Enemy. In the face of such 
threats, they esteem a warrior’s qualities above those of 
men of other crafts, and their captains are tributed the 
highest honours. For it is upon the wisdom of their choices 
that the hopes of the city rest.
Once per battle, you may have a nearby ally automatically 
hit on what was a missed attack.
Onward into Battle
"Gondor!" cried Boromir and leaped after him.
Your battle cries ring out loud and clear over the clamour 
of battle. Over the carnage and terror of war, your words 
inspire your companions to carry on in the face of terrible 
foes.
If any of your allies within 20 feet of you fails a saving 
throw against any effect that causes supernatural fear 
or the Frightened condition, you may spend a Hit Die in 
order to have them all considered to have succeeded at the 
saving throw. You cannot use this ability if you failed your 
own saving throws against whatever caused your allies to 
be Frightened. 
Over Dangerous Leagues
"...a hundred and ten days I have journeyed all alone. "
The martial prowess of the Men of Minas Tirith makes 
them tireless wanderers. From the northern bounds of the 
realm to its southern reaches, emissaries have trod the 
roads once laid by the Men of the West.
You may ignore the first level of exhaustion you gain. 
Afterwards, this ability cannot be used again until you 
have taken a long rest.

--- PAGE 113 ---
Virtues
113
Piercing Sight 
...a keen wit lay behind his searching glance.
It is said that few can hold fast against the piercing eyes 
of a Man of Gondor and that under such a gaze, secrets 
hidden in the hearts of lesser men are often revealed. 
The first time you are introduced to another as part of a 
social encounter, instead of making an ability check using 
a skill, you may instead fix your opponent with your steely 
gaze. 
Your target must make a Wisdom saving throw against a 
DC equal to 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Wisdom 
modifier. If it fails, you gain insight into its reasoning (if 
any), its emotional state and something that looms large 
in its thoughts, such as whatever it worries over, loves or 
hates. If it succeeds, its thoughts are veiled to you.
Whether you succeed or fail, your opponent knows that 
something is amiss, and feels discomforted by your gaze. 
Further social ability checks against the target have 
disadvantage. 
What’s more, abusing knowledge gleaned from the 
thoughts of another may lead to a Misdeed if you use 
your ‘ill-gotten’ knowledge to hurt or influence the target 
unjustly.
Piercing Gaze does not work on Dwarves and Elves, for 
their thoughts are not readily discerned by Men.
Guard of the Tower
"Yet, Master Peregrin, to be only a man of arms of the 
Guard of the Tower of Gondor is held worthy in the City, 
and such men have honour in the Land."
You have been sworn into the service of the Lord and 
Steward of Minas Tirith, as a Guard of the Citadel. When 
you are in Minas Tirith you wear the black and silver 
livery of the Tower. This position is held in high esteem in 
the City, and in the whole land of Gondor.
You learn one of the listed abilities for free when you first 
select this virtue. You may later acquire another ability 
during a Year’s End Fellowship phase in Minas Tirith: 
choose this activity as your undertaking for the phase. 
(You may acquire all three abilities in any order).
Shield-fence
As long as there is at least one ally fighting by your side, 
you may increase the AC bonus from your shield by +1.  
Long Reach
As long as you are fighting with a martial melee weapon 
that is not light, you add 5 feet to your reach. 
Many Foes
You are able to stand against more foes than lesser 
warriors. During melee combat, you may spend Inspiration 
as a reaction to being attacked by foes that outnumber 
you more than two to one. If you do so you may add your 
proficiency bonus to your Armour Class whenever you are 
outnumbered, till the end of the combat.

--- PAGE 114 ---
Adventures in Middle-earth
114
Riders of Rohan Cultural Virtues
Born to the Saddle
With astonishing speed and skill they checked their steeds, 
wheeled, and came charging round.
All Rohirrim know much about horses, but you’ve spent 
your life in the saddle, riding over the wide plains of 
Rohan and fighting the enemies of the Mark. 
You have advantage in Wisdom (Animal Handling) ability 
checks whenever dealing with horses. In addition, you add 
double your proficiency bonus to the check, instead of your 
normal proficiency bonus.
Household Esquire
… a man came summoning him, the king’s esquire, to wait 
at the king’s board. 
A noble family has entrusted you with the raising and 
training of a young person from their household. They 
will serve you as your personal esquire, assisting you in 
all knightly matters. They will travel on their own riding 
horse and wait at your table; they will make sure that 
your mount and belongings are ready at the start of a 
journey, that your weapons are sharpened and your 
armour mended before a battle, and that you wear your 
best clothes and bring your most precious drinking cup 
at a feast. In return, you will provide your esquire with 
a proper martial education and will care for and protect 
them at all times.
Having an esquire with you gives you advantage in Wisdom 
(Insight) and (Perception), and Intelligence (Traditions) 
ability checks. Additionally, your esquire will promptly 
recover your mount should you fall from the saddle or be 
thrown down from it by failing a Dexterity saving throw. 
They will bring you a spare shield or weapon should you 
see it smashed or dropped (he effectively grants a bonus 
action to allow recovery of such items) and finally they 
will carry you from the field should you be knocked 
unconscious by the blows of an enemy, automatically 
stabilising you. While you won’t allow your esquire to be 
directly engaged in combat, they are is considered to be 
always about and eager to perform their duties.
Esquire
Medium human
STR 
14 (+2)
DEX 
13 (+1)
CON 
13 (+1)
INT 
11 (+0)
WIS 
11 (+0)
CHA 
10 (+0)
Armour Class 14 (corslet of mail)
Hit Points 16 (3d8+3)
Speed 30 ft.
Skills Animal Handling +2, Insight +2, Perception 
+2, Traditions +2
Senses passive Perception 12
Actions
Sword. Melee Weapon Attack +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., 
Hit: 6 (1d8+2) slashing damage.
King’s Guard 
But the men of the king’s household they could not yet 
bring from the field… 
The Lord of the Mark has granted you a permanent 
position among the Riders of the King’s own House. 
While most young lords among the Rohirrim serve in the 
King’s Guard for at least a few years, it is an honour to 
be granted to serve among them for life. Whenever you 
are in Edoras you train with some of the finest warriors 
of the Mark, and while away you are expected to enforce 
the King’s will. 
You learn one of the three listed abilities of your choice 
when you first select this virtue. You may later acquire 
another ability as an undertaking during a Fellowship 
phase. (You may acquire all three abilities in any order). 
Horse-archery 
You are allowed to use a bow from horseback without 
drawing disadvantage on your attack roll against foes 
within 5 feet of you. Additionally, you gain a +1 bonus to 
ranged combat attack rolls while mounted on a horse.
Shield-raising 
When you are using a shield while mounted, your shield 
increases your Armour Class by +3.

--- PAGE 115 ---
Virtues
115
Sword and Spear 
When you are using a broadsword, long sword or a spear 
while mounted on a horse, you gain a +2 bonus to damage 
rolls.
Master of Doom
Doom hung over them, but they faced it silently. 
Many among your folk believe that the destiny of every 
man is determined already when he comes first unto this 
world. But some scorn this belief, deeming that by his own 
strength a man may master his doom. Wise men consider 
this to be a thought born of vain pride, and dangerous. 
What you think is that if you cannot conquer your fate, 
you will fall while trying. 
At the start of any Adventuring phase you may choose to 
temporarily reduce your Wisdom by a number of points 
up to the total of your Proficiency Bonus. For each point 
that you reduce your Wisdom you add a number of 
temporary Hit Points equal to 1d10 + your Constitution 
modifier to a pool that lasts, unless reduced by damage, 
till the end of the Adventuring phase. During the following 
Fellowship phase, anything left in the pool is removed and 
your Wisdom returns to its normal score. 
Note that lowering your Wisdom changes your Wisdom 
modifier and lowering it beneath the number of Shadow 
points you presently have will instantly render you subject 
to the Miserable condition (see page 183) and in danger of 
a Bout of Madness.
Old Songs and Children’s Tales 
"They are… wise but unlearned, writing no books but 
singing many songs, after the manner of the children of 
Men before the Dark Years."
In these strange days you have learnt that the songs of the 
old days tell of many things that have been long forgotten, 
and what is often deemed to be the matter of legends may 
return to walk under the Sun. There is worth in each word 
of every rhyme, and wisdom in each dark stave of song 
that have come down from father to son in the House of 
Eorl. 
Yours is an oral culture and you retain far more knowledge 
of old lore than most. By drawing on old snippets of lore 
and fragments of stories you can grant yourself advantage 
on ability checks using the following skills: History, Insight, 
Investigation, Lore, Medicine, Nature, Performance, 
Riddle, Survival and Traditions.
You can do this a number of times during an Adventuring 
phase equal to your Intelligence modifier, minimum of 1.
 
This ability covers many strange bits of lore, you may very 
well know pieces of hidden knowledge about the Shadow, 
or other seemingly lost tales at the Loremaster’s discretion. 
It is worth noting that using this ability does not imply that 
you suddenly burst into song, but rather that you run over 
snatches of old rhymes from your memory, murmuring a 
few words or maybe singing softly to yourself.
Woodmen of Wilderland 
Cultural Virtues
A Hunter’s Resolve 
On and on he led them, tireless and swift…
You have learnt to tap into the inner strength of the 
indefatigable and relentless hunter.
You may spend Inspiration in order to expend Hit Dice for 
hit point recovery immediately, including during combat. 
Once you’ve decided how many Hit Dice to expend, this 
ability cannot be used again until you’ve taken a short or 
long rest.
Herbal Remedies 
Radagast … has much lore of herbs and beasts…
Mirkwood is shunned by many men and beasts, yet its 
shadowy eaves are still good for the growing of herbs. You 
are learning the ancient craft of concocting salves and 
herbal remedies from your village elders and wise-women.
You learn to recognise which herbs qualify as Fragrant 
Weeds when you first select this virtue, and can master the 
secrets of Poison Remedies as your undertaking during a 
Fellowship phase.
Fragrant Weeds
You have developed the habit of chewing some herbs and 
roots that are said to bring vigour back into a man’s limbs.

--- PAGE 116 ---
Adventures in Middle-earth
116
As long as you are in a wild area, you can collect enough 
herbs for their effect to be noticeable:
You ignore the effects of one level of exhaustion – the 
level doesn’t go away, but you don’t suffer the penalty. For 
example, if you have three levels of exhaustion, you are 
only penalised as if you had two.
Poison Remedies
You can find the necessary ingredients to concoct a drink 
that, when ingested, will help a victim shake off the effects 
of Spider-poison, or to prepare a salve that when applied 
to a wound or a bruise will neutralise the action of Orc-
poison.
Spend Inspiration and make a DC 15 Wisdom (Medicine) 
ability check to neutralise the effects of a single poison type 
on all members of your company. The same concoction 
will grant advantage on all saving throws against poison 
for the next hour after imbibing.
Hound of Mirkwood 
"…in trotted… several large, long-bodied grey dogs."
Your folk have always delighted in training great, long-
jawed hounds, stronger than wolves. You have chosen 
a wolfhound of Wilderland to accompany you in your 
wanderings and the faithfulness of your hound reinforces 
your spirit.
Raise your Wisdom score by 1 point.
Add your proficiency bonus to the Hound’s AC, attack 
rolls, damage rolls, saving throws and skills. Its hit points 
are equal to four times your level. The Hound heals using 
your Hit Dice. The Hound obeys your commands and 
stays by your side. On your turn, you may use your action 
to command the Hound to take an Attack, Dash, Dodge, 
Disengage or Help action. If you have the Extra Attack 
feature, you can make one weapon attack yourself while 
commanding your hound to Attack.
The training of a Hound of Mirkwood is an endeavour 
in itself; the teachings of Radagast have turned this craft 
into an art. When you first choose this virtue, your Hound 
learns to assist you with one skill as described under 
Support below. You can train him to Support additional 
skills, as well as to Fight in combat, as a separate 
undertaking during later Fellowship phases, as follows:
Support
You can train your Hound to assist you in one activity. A 
dog can be trained to support you when making any one 
of the following ability checks: Charisma (Intimidation), 
Intelligence (Investigation) or Wisdom (Perception). It 
takes a Fellowship phase worth of training to teach your 
dog to complete an additional task. 
When you make ability checks using one of your Hound’s 
trained skills, you gain advantage, and count as proficient 
in the skill even if you are not – if you are proficient, you 
get to double your proficiency bonus.
Fight
As a Fellowship phase undertaking, you may train your 
Hound to Attack, Dash, Disengage, Dodge or Help without 
requiring a command from you. Each action takes a 
separate Fellowship phase to train your Hound.
Hound of Mirkwood
Medium beast 
STR 
13 (+1)
DEX 
14 (+2)
CON 
12 (+1)
INT 
3 (-4)
WIS 
12 (+1)
CHA 
7 (-2)
Armour Class 12 (natural armour)
Hit Points Level x 4
Speed 40 ft.
Skills Perception +3
Senses passive Perception 13
Keen Hearing and Smell: The Hound has 
advantage on Wisdom (Perception) ability checks 
that rely on hearing and smell.
Actions
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 5ft, 
Hit: 4 (1d6 + 1) piercing damage. If the target is a 
Small or Medium creature, it must succeed at a DC 
11 Strength saving throw or have disadvantage on 
its next attack.

--- PAGE 117 ---
Virtues
117
Natural Watchfulness
The wood was full of the rumour of him, dreadful tales 
even among beasts and birds.
Whether travelling, exploring or even resting, the 
behaviour of animals can communicate much to those 
who know how to interpret the signs. It could be the 
sudden silence of a bird, or the distant rustling of a beast 
in head-long flight. 
While in or near (within a few miles) a forest, you have 
advantage on all Wisdom (Perception) ability checks. You 
also gain a +5 bonus to initiative rolls. 
Staunching Song of the Woodmen
"They are … singing many songs, after the manner of the 
children of Men before the Dark Years."
This song has been taught to the worthiest members of 
your clan since your people first descended along the 
banks of the Great River. Its tune echoes Elven songs from 
a time of war and weapons, and its precious knowledge 
has been passed with great care from one generation 
to the next. Singing its words can reduce the loss of a 
warrior’s life-blood to a trickle, letting it flow back to the 
heart. 
After you finish a short rest, you may sing this song to 
recover a Hit Die + your Constitution modifier’s worth 
of damage without expending one of your Hit Dice. By 
spending Inspiration, you may do the same for all the other 
members of your company. Your allies roll to recover hit 
points based on their Hit Dice and Constitution modifier, 
not yours.

--- PAGE 119 ---
My dearest friend, 
 
I have reached Lake-town in good spirits. The city on the Lake is not 
nearly as far from our halls as some would tell you, and the rafters 
make such a fuss of how long and difficult the journey is!  
 
I have not forgotten my promise – I will find what was lost on the 
battlefield that fell day and return it, whether it was stolen by some 
avaricious Dwarf, or a Man too short of years to know what it is he 
gleaned on that field of woe. 
 
I will find it, and I will return it. 
 
Now it comes to it, I must confess, it troubles me deeply what it will 
mean for your family when that ring is found. Our line is old, and 
some pots are better left unstirred would you not say? 
 
It feels strange to be so far from the Greenwood, but I find the calls of 
the white gulls here strangely comforting. With good fortune, I will 
return soon. 
 
Eredan
Backgrounds

--- PAGE 120 ---
120
Adventures in Middle-earth
- Backgrounds -
“Drownded?” said several voices. They had 
heard this and other darker rumours before, of 
course, but hobbits have a passion for family 
history and they were ready to hear it again.”
Your character’s class determines how they answer the 
call to adventure; your culture determines where you come 
from. Your background, though, is the real beginning of 
your story, determining where you find the courage to fight 
against the Shadow – or why you might succumb to despair. 
Each background has the following entries:
Skill Proficiencies
Each background grants two bonus skill proficiencies.
Feature
A special ability or gift stemming from your background. 
Suggested Characteristics
As the name implies, these are suggestions for each 
background. You can either pick the ones that most 
appeal to you, let a random roll inspire you, mix-and-
match characteristics from several backgrounds, or even 
come up with your own Distinctive Qualities, Specialities, 
reasons to Hope and sources of Despair. If you do leave 
the path set out for you, though, remember to consult with 
your Loremaster to ensure that any Characteristics you 
create are suitable for both Middle-earth and the game. 
Distinctive Quality
Distinctive qualities define a Player-hero’s personality 
traits and physical peculiarities, whether inborn or 
developed during their upbringing. Highlighting one’s 
most distinctive quality is generally worth the awarding 
of Inspiration.

--- PAGE 121 ---
121
Backgrounds
It’s worth noting that any distinctive quality can be found 
amongst members of any background; those listed in each 
background description are merely those most commonly 
associated with those backgrounds. You are free to select 
any distinctive quality for your character regardless of 
what background you belong. 
Specialities
Specialities represent the knacks, insights, and ‘craft 
secrets’ that are handed down to a character over the 
years. Like tool proficiencies, a speciality represents a 
body of knowledge that the Player-hero may occasionally 
call upon throughout the course of his adventures. As 
with distinctive features, you may take a speciality not 
offered on your particular background table; those listed 
are simply those most commonly found amongst Player-
heroes of that background.
If you use a speciality in a creative way you are awarded 
with Inspiration. Generally, use of a speciality doesn’t 
require an ability check; it is after all your opportunity to 
shine with experiences from their past. 
However, specialities shouldn’t automatically succeed if 
another ability check would normally be necessary. In 
such cases, you still need to succeed at an ability check, 
but you are considered to be proficient for the purposes of 
that check. If you are already proficient in the skill being 
used, then you gain advantage. 
For example, the company are pursuing a fleeing Orc and 
a Hobbit Wanderer invokes her Gardener speciality to 
look for crushed plants to track his progress. 
The Loremaster gives her inspiration and allows her to 
make a Wisdom (Survival) check with her proficiency 
bonus. If the character is already proficient in the Survival 
skill, then she gains advantage instead.
Hope
While all Player-heroes have hope, each has a particular 
trait that bolsters them more than others. This could be 
a particular bond with someone, an act of friendship, an 
inspiring event, or simply something that the Player-hero 
believes in that drives them forward when everything 
seems lost. Using one’s hope trait to strengthen them 
grants Inspiration.
Despair
If Hope drives Player-heroes to do great things, then despair 
is what tears them down. Despair creeps in whenever a 
Player-hero feels vulnerable, often when isolated or when 
the forces of Shadow just seem too overwhelming. 
It’s also worth noting that Player-heroes could have a 
hope trait and a despair trait that seemingly contradict 
each other – it’s simply part of an internal conflict. 
Falling victim to despair grants Inspiration.
Loyal Servant
"I can’t carry it for you, but I can carry you and it as well. 
So up you get! Come on, Mr. Frodo dear. Sam will give you 
a ride. Just tell him where to go, and he’ll go."
You have dedicated your life to the service of another. You 
might be a member of a retinue of followers, or a knight 
in the king’s house, or just a humble gardener in the 
employ of a gentle-hobbit. You always put your master’s 
needs above your own, even when your master ignores or 
overlooks yours. 
Skill Proficiencies: Insight, Traditions
Feature: Inseparable
You are always close at hand when your master is 
concerned, though your presence is often ignored. Unless 
the Loremaster rules otherwise, you are always considered 
to be nearby your master, even in situations where you 
would not normally be expected to be. 
For example, if your master is summoned to a secret 
council, you are assumed to tag along and eavesdrop. If 
your master tries to sneak off alone, you are assumed to 
have followed after him like a loyal hound. 
Suggested Characteristics
Loyal servants usually keep quiet and are overlooked, 
but when they speak up, it’s often with great insight or 
surprising knowledge. While they never expect to be heroes 
or receive accolades for their actions, the disregarded tend 
to do the right thing anyway, simply because it’s right. As 
for the rest…well, it’s just their lot in life.

--- PAGE 122 ---
122
Adventures in Middle-earth
D8
Distinctive Quality
1
Cautious. You are careful not to make any 
mistakes, lest your master be angry with you.
2
Determined. You always follow through 
with any commands given to you.
3
Eager. You are always eager for an 
opportunity to prove your worth, even when 
unrewarded.
4
Honourable. You treat even your enemies 
with respect. Your master sometimes 
considers that a failing in you.
5
Just. You have a strong sense of right and 
wrong; you merely accept that your master is 
flawed.
6
Patient. You’ve learned to control your 
temper and accept hardships without 
complaint. 
7
True-hearted. You are sincere and honest; 
you make no excuses for your master’s 
treatment of you.
8
Trusty. You are someone people know they 
can trust.
D6
Speciality
1
Beast-lore. You enjoy being out of your 
master’s watchful eye and spend a great 
deal of time riding and hunting.
2
Enemy-lore (choose one). You focus much 
of your efforts against a single enemy, 
typically one that vexes your master.
3
Gardener. You enjoy your quiet times tending 
the gardens, although your master believes it 
to be indicative of your gentle nature.
4
Minstrelsy. You’ve found a conduit for your 
frustrations in music and song.
5
Region-lore (choose one). You have great 
knowledge of a particular region, typically 
one important to your master.
6
Smoking. After a day of thankless chores 
from your master, you enjoy relaxing with 
your favourite pipe.
D6
Hope
1
I always act to the best of my ability even 
when unappreciated.
2
I strive to be loyal to my master no matter 
how they treat me.
3
There is nothing stronger than one’s 
traditions; I honour them.
4
I act in accordance with what my ‘better’ 
rival for attention would do.
5
I would place myself in danger for a friend.
6
My master is dead, but I still strive to be his 
ideal.
D6
Despair
1
I deserve my superior’s disdain as I do have 
many faults.
2
I was born into the life that I was expected to 
lead, nothing more, nothing less. 
3
I lack confidence in myself.
4
No matter what I do, nothing will change.
5
My better rival really is better than me; I 
pale in their shadow.
6
I know that when the agents of the Shadow 
come, I will be amongst the first to fall.
Doomed to Die
"So it ends as I guessed it would", his thought said, even as 
it fluttered away, and it laughed a little within him as it 
fled.
Things are not going to end well for you. You’ve known this 
for most of your life, although you don’t quite understand 
why. It may just be a gut feeling or perhaps you took some 
prophetic dream to heart and assume that you’re going 
to be denied a happy ending in life. You just soldier on as 
best you can before the inevitable happens, hoping that 
your actions will at least make you worth remembering in 
the songs and tales now being written.

--- PAGE 123 ---
123
Backgrounds
Skill Proficiencies: Athletics, Intimidation
Feature: Dark Foreboding
While they know not the hour or manner of their death, 
those Doomed to Die often have a sixth sense of sorts 
when in the presence of Shadow. They may not know 
exactly what is behind this feeling, but they can sense its 
presence grow stronger or weaker. The Doomed to Die 
can usually tell, for example, whether an Orc band is an 
isolated raiding party or part of a larger force being driven 
by something more sinister, or whether a nearby ruin is 
steeped in Shadow.
Suggested Characteristics
Those Doomed to Die seem to have a grim acceptance 
of their fates. While they tend to make the best of things 
while they can, there’s always a hint of sadness behind 
their smiles and a dullness in their eyes. 
While not necessarily pessimistic, the Doomed to Die 
often doubt whether they’ll live to see any plan through to 
completion, as they know that they are fated to die. They 
do, however, plan to make their mark a spectacular one, 
making the Doomed to Die one of the strongest and most 
prepared members of their companies.
D8
Distinctive Quality
1
Bold. If you are already doomed, then 
there is no sense in being cautious. You 
meet every challenge head-on.
2
Determined. Your fate is coming soon 
and you don’t want to leave anything 
unfinished. You relentlessly pursue your 
goals. 
3
Grim. You no longer have time for the 
niceties of life; even when you do nothing, 
you have a threatening appearance.
4
Hardened. Part of the reason that you have 
accepted your fate is that you have seen too 
much death and misfortune already. It’s 
your turn.
5
Hardy. Fate will not find you resting on 
your laurels; you will trudge through 
storms and long roads to meet it.
6
Patient. While you know that you will 
die soon you aren’t eager to hasten it. You 
live your life as normal, knowing that the 
appointed hour will come when it will.
7
Reckless. You are doomed to die; you 
have no time to dally and overthink your 
actions. You move forward and damn the 
consequences!
8
Swift. Your foreboding of your fate has 
made you more alert. Even when danger 
sneaks up on you, it rarely finds you 
unprepared.

--- PAGE 124 ---
124
Adventures in Middle-earth
D6
Speciality
1
Enemy-lore (choose one). Not only are you 
doomed to die, but you are sure by whose 
hands it will be. You won’t make it easy for 
them.
2
Fire-making. The roads towards your fate 
can be long. You are adept at making fires 
and preparing camps.
3
Dark Secrets. You have recognised the 
influence of Shadow and you are certain 
that its advance is what has sealed your 
fate. 
4
Smith-craft. If you’re going to meet your 
doom, you shall do so while wearing good 
armour and wielding strong steel.
5
Story-telling. You may be doomed but you 
won’t be forgotten. You tell your stories in a 
way that draws your audience in.
6
Woodwright. Broken wagons, axe-shafts 
and great bows won’t hinder you, and 
you’ve found whittling a good way to pass 
the time on your travels.
D6
Hope
1
Even when things seem hopeless, I know 
that this is not the death I see.
2
I live for today, for tomorrow I will die.
3
I shall make sure that my friends live to see 
my sacrifice.
4
The Shadow must be rid of me because I 
am strong.
5
Though it shall end with my death, I shall 
push forward because I am the only one 
who can.
6
I wish to inspire my company by my 
selfless example.
D6
Despair
1
My death is for naught, for when I die, the 
Shadow will win.
2
I feel no kinship towards my company; 
they will lose me soon enough.
3
I fear that I will die alone and 
unremembered.
4
I know that those who stand beside me are 
only fated to die beside me.
5
I am fated to die because no one listens to 
my counsel.
6
I know that when things are at their 
bleakest, I shall be standing alone.
Driven from Home
"They seem to have made a last stand by both doors," he 
said, "but there were not many left by that time. So ended 
the attempt to retake Moria! It was valiant but foolish. The 
time is not come yet."
You have no place to call home. This may be because it 
no longer exists, your people cast you out for some real 
or imagined reason, or you have done something that 
would prove troublesome should you ever return. For 
whatever reason, those who you meet know that you are 
no longer welcome home even if they do not know the full 
details. You know that you are on your own as others are 
intimidated by you and prefer to keep you at arm’s reach, 
placating you only for as long as they must tolerate your 
presence.
Skill Proficiencies: Intimidation, Survival
Feature: Infamous
Those who know of your past speak in half-hushed 
whispers of what drove you from your home. For some 
this is reason enough to give you a wide berth, for others 
it hints at a person desperate enough to take any job, no 
matter how menial or lowly. You can always find some 
sort of upkeep, at least enough to match your Standard 
of Living, whenever you are in a settlement of some sort.

--- PAGE 125 ---
125
Backgrounds
Suggested Characteristics
Those Driven from Home are often seen as lone wolves 
who trust no one and who can’t be trusted themselves. 
This is not necessarily the case as many of those Driven 
from Home find camaraderie amongst fellow travellers, 
whether their travels are imposed or voluntary. When 
trust is earned, the Driven from Home are often among 
the most loyal and dedicated members of a company.
D8
Distinctive Quality
1
Adventurous. You’ve accepted that your 
old life is gone and you revel in the new 
experiences that the world has to offer.
2
Cautious. With few friends to rely on for 
support, you try to do things right – and on 
your own – the first time.
3
Hardened. You’ve seen a lot of tragedy and 
misfortune in your life; it happens.
4
Proud. No matter your circumstances, 
you speak proudly of your people and your 
former life. You will let no one forget them.
5
Quick of Hearing. You have learned to 
hear dangers before they can get close 
enough to harm you.
6
Robust. Your life in exile has done wonders 
for your health. Your body is quite tough; 
you rarely get sick.
7
Wary. Your early days in exile were rough 
and you’ve learned hard lessons. You keep 
strangers at arm’s length, no matter how 
broadly they smile.
8
Wilful. You have learned to rely only on 
yourself and your own judgement.
D6
Speciality
1
Enemy-lore (choose one). You know 
a lot about a particular enemy who is 
responsible for your current circumstances.
2
Smith-craft. Your skill at working metal 
has helped you earn a living in exile.
3
Story-telling. You have a talent for sharing 
the stories of your people and your travels 
in an entertaining way.
4
Stone-craft. Your skill at masonry and the 
new techniques you bring enable you to 
both earn a living and leave a mark on the 
community you inhabit. Each building is a 
monument to your former home.
5
Trading. Being an outsider has given you 
valuable insight while making you a bit 
harder to read in business transactions. 
6
Woodwright. Your skill at carving wood has 
enabled you to make a comfortable living.
D6
Hope
1
There is always something better beyond 
the next horizon.
2
My company is my new family and I shall 
protect them as I would my own blood.
3
I will reclaim my home.
4
As long as I draw breath, my homeland 
lives on in me.
5
I have faith in my companions. I trust them.
6
The past is the past. I can do better.

--- PAGE 126 ---
126
Adventures in Middle-earth
D6
Despair
1
If I were a better person, my home would 
still be safe.
2
I can trust no one; everyone will ultimately 
betray me.
3
I can’t escape what destroyed my home.
4
There isn’t much left of me to save.
5
I’ve seen the worst and I am doomed to see 
it happen again to someone else’s home.
6
I shall never find comfort in a new home.
Emissary of your People
"Give me leave," said he, "first to say more of Gondor, 
for verily from the land of Gondor I am come. And it would 
be well for all to know what passes there. For few, I deem, 
know of our deeds, and therefore guess little of their peril, if 
we should fail at last."
The Free People of the West are beginning to again make 
connections with each other. Trade is improving, alliances 
are forming and folk who have had nothing to do with each 
other for centuries are finding reasons to communicate. 
You have been sent by your people to go out and meet 
other cultures, see strange lands and report back on what 
is out there in the grand world. The Shadow is lifting, and 
not just in Wilderland, and you are a beacon of hope for 
a new age. 
Skill Proficiencies: Persuasion, Traditions
Feature: Sigil of Your Master
As an emissary you are entitled to a certain consideration 
amongst foreign peoples. While you cannot speak with the 
authority of your lord and master, you do receive some 
official respect. You can expect to pass through the lands 
of other Free Peoples unmolested, be able to call upon 
other kings and chieftains for lodging, and be received 
into the halls of power.
Suggested Characteristics
Emissaries are usually friendly negotiators; it is a rare 
Emissary that is dour and standoffish – such Emissaries 
were generally chosen for reasons other than their people 
skills. Emissaries are adaptable and accepting of foreign 
ways and understand that practicality and alliances 
must sometimes take precedence over tradition and old 
grievances. Unfortunately, an Emissary’s accommodating 
nature also makes them difficult to trust as many fear that 
deception often hides behind a toothy smile.
D8
Distinctive Quality
1
Cunning. Your sharp wit has served you 
well in foreign courts.
2
Fair-spoken. You have a pleasant 
speaking voice that puts your listeners at 
ease.
3
Honourable. You are the consummate 
diplomat and have garnered a reputation 
for being respectful with your foreign peers.
4
Merry. Your smile never dims, even 
when negotiations and secure borders are 
collapsing around you.
5
Patient. You’ve long learned the art of 
patience; good negotiations take time.
6
Secretive. Your thoughts are your own and 
you are very difficult to read.
7
Suspicious. You buy in to the old proverb 
that says “he who trusts not is not 
deceived” and you live by those words.
8
Trusty. You have a strong reputation for 
keeping your word, even when it harms 
you.

--- PAGE 127 ---
127
Backgrounds
D6
Speciality
1
Enemy-lore (choose one). You’ve gathered 
particular knowledge of an enemy 
common to you and those with whom you 
often negotiate.
2
Region-lore (choose one). You have vast 
knowledge of a particular region, either 
your land or an area in which you now 
spend a lot of time.
3
Rhymes of Lore. Much knowledge is 
contained in the verses of poetry and song. 
You have learned to use the effect such 
compositions have on those with whom 
you negotiate to your advantage.
4
Smoking. You are well aware that the best 
negotiations often take place in informal 
settings when your fellow negotiators are 
at ease.
5
Story-telling. Your gift at relaying stories 
makes you quite the entertainer when you 
speak.
6
Trading. You are as much a merchant as 
you are a diplomat and consider both to 
be two sides of the same coin.
D6
Hope
1
Only by joining forces can we hope to push 
back the Shadow.
2
What unites us should be more important 
than what divides us.
3
Tradition offers wisdom, but we shouldn’t 
be afraid to change it.
4
Our personal desires must sometimes give 
way for the good of all.
5
I will not betray my liege’s faith and trust 
in me.
6
In order to stop the spread of Shadow, we 
need to cure poisoned ears.
D6
Despair
1
The Shadow’s influence is too strong; my 
entreaties often fall on deaf ears.
2
I did not receive my position for being a 
talented diplomat.
3
I’ve compromised so many of my ideals 
that I’m not sure who I am any more.
4
We are too late; even if we marshal our 
forces, the Shadow’s army will annihilate 
us.
5
I’ve lost a loved one to the Shadow and I 
fear I cannot get them back.
6
I rely far too much on deception when I 
negotiate and I know that I will face the 
consequences of it soon.
Fallen Scion
"The King under the Mountain is dead, and where are his 
kin that dare seek revenge? Girion Lord of Dale is dead, 
and I have eaten his people like a wolf among sheep, and 
where are his sons’ sons that dare approach me?"
You are the last of a powerful bloodline, or at least that’s 
what your parents and those closest to them keep telling 
you. Your aristocratic line was highly influential, perhaps 
even royal, before some calamity befell them. Perhaps 
the lands they once ruled were overrun or a coup drove 
them from power. Perhaps it’s as simple as your forebears 
disappearing while travelling through treacherous terrain. 
Whatever the case, you have a powerful destiny ahead of 
you should you choose to seize it. 
Skill Proficiencies: History, Traditions
Feature: Noble Bearing
Your family’s wealth, power and holdings may be gone, 
but your title remains. In social gatherings you are still 
a lord amongst lords and you are treated accordingly as 
such. You may call upon the rights of hospitality in any 
noble home and your words and advice often carry great 
weight; you aren’t easily dismissed. You are also expected

--- PAGE 128 ---
128
Adventures in Middle-earth
to live up to your expectations and obligations, whatever 
they may be, and several nobles curry favour from you 
in the hopes that you reward them when your power is 
restored.
Suggested Characteristics
Fallen Scions tend to be aristocratic no matter what their 
current situation. They often ‘hold court’ amongst their 
friends and they do their best to act honourably, as they 
understand both the noble and common worlds. This 
makes them great diplomats and negotiators and they are 
often called upon to lead armies into battle.
D8
Distinctive Quality
1
Bold. Powerful blood still courses 
through your veins and strengthens your 
resolve; you are not easily daunted.
2
Determined. If you have pledged 
yourself to a goal, then you shall see it 
through; you let nothing get in your way.
3
Fair-spoken. One of the reasons why 
you are treated well regardless of 
your circumstances is because of your 
pleasant manner and way of speaking.
4
Lordly. You carry yourself with an air 
of nobility no matter how meagre your 
actual circumstance.
5
Merciful. You know what it is like to be 
the object of misfortune and this prompts 
you to treat others with kindness and 
understanding.
6
Proud. You hold the past 
accomplishments of your family in high 
esteem. You hope to add to their legacy.
7
Steadfast. Your family lost everything 
because they were too trusting of their 
‘allies.’ You won’t make the same 
mistake.
8
Wilful. Your pedigree reinforces your 
confidence in your own judgement. It is 
difficult for others to sway you.
D6
Speciality
1
Enemy-lore (choose one). You are well-
versed in the enemy that devastated your 
family.
2
Old Lore. You are learned in the history 
and traditions of the world in which your 
family was prominent. Your perception 
of the present is flavoured by your 
knowledge of the past.
3
Rhymes of Lore. You find comfort in the 
old songs about your family’s heyday as 
well as the prophecies contained therein. 
4
Dark Secrets. You are certain that the 
Shadow played a role in your family’s 
downfall and will learn all that you can 
about the Enemy.
5
Story-telling. There’s nothing you like 
better than to share the tales of your 
lordly past with an audience.
6
Trading. Knowing that one day you shall 
be making such transactions in court, 
you hone your deal-making skills in any 
way you can.
D6
Hope
1
I am a paragon of my bloodline; I shall 
bring no shame to my ancestry.
2
One day my place will be rightfully 
restored.
3
I have learned that true nobility is not a 
birthright.
4
Only by replacing lesser leaders can we 
hope to defeat the Shadow.
5
Trust in my company will get me through 
the greatest dangers.
6
My restoration will turn the Shadow back 
on its heels in due course.

--- PAGE 129 ---
129
Backgrounds
D6
Despair
1
If my family were still alive they would be 
disappointed in me.
2
There is nothing left to restore; my title 
would be an empty one.
3
Restoring my title requires sacrifices that 
I’m unwilling to make.
4
My friends would no longer accept me if 
they discovered who I truly was.
5
Restoring my name would mean only a 
death sentence.
6
My allies humour me; they have no 
interest in seeing my position restored.
Optional Lost Scion: Black Shield
Not all Fallen Scions wish to draw attention to themselves; 
some prefer to remain in the darkness. Such individuals 
often create alternate identities for themselves, pretending 
to be roving rangers or wandering merchants rather than 
a fallen noble. 
Such characters take the Deception proficiency in place 
of History or Traditions (you may select which) and only 
reveal their true nature to local lords when safely behind 
closed doors.
The Harrowed
"For on the eve of the sudden assault a dream came to my 
brother in a troubled sleep, and afterwards a like dream 
came oft to him again, and once to me."
You are plagued by a persistent dream. It beckons you to 
complete some task, although you are currently unsure of 
its particulars and whether fulfilling the dream will lead 
to good or ill. All that you do know is that the dream is 
strong and its intensity increases whenever you neglect its 
demands of you. It is simply impossible for you to get a 
good night’s sleep otherwise. 
Skill Proficiencies: Lore, Investigation
Feature: Foreknowledge
Your dream often grants you riddles, verses and visions that 
not only directly aid you on your quest but also tangentially 
give you an insight into people and places that may only be 
peripherally related to your dream. Whenever you enter a 
new community or meet a person of note, you may have 
a flash of insight about their relationship to your dream. 
For example, if you are meeting a lord for the first time 
you may recall that a dream-verse indicates that he acts 
honourably, which likely means that you can trust him. 
Similarly, you may walk into a community with a vision 
of their friendly faces turning to abandonment and even 
betrayal when they stand with others in the face of Shadow.

--- PAGE 130 ---
130
Adventures in Middle-earth
Be forewarned, however, that such knowledge may be 
incomplete. The lord may have acted honourably over guilt 
about his past duplicity, and the community may only have 
broken and run due to the influence of the agents of Shadow.
Suggested Characteristics
The Harrowed carry the burden – or curse – of knowing 
what lies ahead without completely understanding it or even 
their own role in bringing it about. They are driven by their 
dream to recognise the omens and see the prophecy through 
no matter what effect it has on them or their company. Many 
Harrowed find comfort in games of chance, as their inherent 
unpredictability is soothing to them.
D8
Distinctive Quality
1
Cunning. Your sharp wit is a way in which 
you cope with the gravity of your burden.
2
Determined. You will let nothing get in 
the way between you and the fulfilment of 
your dream, whatever it may be.
3
Eager. You can barely contain your glee 
when an opportunity to pursue your dream 
presents itself.
4
Forthright. You have enough trouble 
interpreting the symbols of your dreams; 
you prefer to be direct in manner and 
speech so as to leave no room for 
misinterpretation.
5
Grim. You are so troubled by the portents 
of your dream that you cannot help but 
display it. 
6
Hardened. You have already seen some 
of the portents of your dreams come true 
and, good or ill, they’ve steeled you for 
what is to come.
7
Secretive. You have previously regretted 
sharing things about your dreams that 
you had misinterpreted. Now you prefer to 
keep things to yourself unless you know for 
certain that they are true.
8
Wilful. The dreams were given to you and 
no one else. What matters is what you 
believe the portents to mean; no one else 
gets to decide that for you or tell you what 
you must do.
D6
Speciality
1
Elven-lore. You are certain that some 
elements of your dream are better 
understood through ancient Elven eyes 
and you’ve collected much about them.
2
Minstrelsy. You know that many facts 
are preserved through song and that the 
emotional responses to music are similar 
to your own responses to your dream 
images. You observe through playing.
3
Old Lore. You are delving deep into the 
past in order to learn what you need to 
resolve your dreams in the future.
4
Rhymes of Lore. You have been collecting 
various verses in the hopes that you 
can stitch together the meaning of your 
dreams.
5
Dark Secrets. You are certain that your 
dreams touch the Shadow. You are 
learning all that you can about it.
6
Smoking. Sometimes the best way to 
interpret dreams is to light a pipe and 
reflect on them.
D6
Hope
1
When I resolve what my dreams are telling 
me I shall finally be at peace.
2
I am destined to strike a mortal blow 
against the Shadow.
3
I have chosen my company wisely; they 
will stand with me through it all.
4
Not everything is pre-ordained; I revel in 
such moments of uncertainty.
5
My dream does not dictate who I can love.
6
The more I understand my dream, the less 
I fear what I need to do.

--- PAGE 131 ---
131
Backgrounds
D6
Despair
1
My dream is too abstract and incomplete; 
I’ll never understand it.
2
I believe my dreams are being fed by the 
Shadow; they are leading me to my doom.
3
No one believes my dreams.
4
I am not strong enough to see my dream 
through; the dream should have been given 
to someone else.
5
I’ve badly misinterpreted my dreams and it 
is too late to change course.
6
Following my dream will ultimately place 
my friends in mortal danger; they are to be 
sacrificed.
Optional Harrowed: Storyteller
Not all Harrowed are forlorn; some revel in their 
enigmatic knowledge and are eager to share it with 
others in the hopes that it attracts those with even better 
knowledge of the events of which the Harrowed dreams. 
These story-tellers hide behind cheerful façades and 
merriment, claiming to live for today without worrying 
about tomorrow. 
If you chose this option, you gain a  a musical instrument 
of your choice. You may also replace your Investigation 
skill proficiency with Performance.
Hunted by the Shadow
"I do not know for what reason the Enemy is pursuing 
you,"answered Gildor, "but I perceive he is – strange 
though that seems to me. And I warn you that peril is now 
both before you and behind you, and upon either side."
You or your family have struck a blow against the Shadow 
and it hit back hard. The Shadow’s agents are tracking you 
everywhere, making it dangerous for you to stay in one 
place for too long. If that wasn’t enough, your reputation 
precedes you and your mere presence is disturbing and 
troubling to local notables. Most will still extend you the 
common courtesies due your station, but you are often 
encouraged to move quickly onward before the Shadow 
finds you. 
Skill Proficiencies: Stealth, Survival
Feature: Troubling to the Wise
You or your family’s deeds are well-known amongst the 
notables of Middle-earth and you have come to know 
many lords, Elves and even Wizards. Some of these you 
count as friends and others are merely names you can 
mention to be accorded food and shelter for the night. 
Even your friends know that trouble follows you and they 
will do everything they can to help you on your way while 
keeping you as safe as possible. This means that you often 
have knowledge of the lesser-known hiding places and 
catacombs in the castles and cities that you visit.

--- PAGE 132 ---
132
Adventures in Middle-earth
Suggested Characteristics
Those Hunted by the Shadow tend to have thick skins, 
for they understand that the worried looks and desires 
for them to move on isn’t personal. The Hunted tend to 
keep themselves disguised while travelling, drawing little 
attention to themselves so as not to alert the agents of 
the Shadow. This sometimes means that they must turn 
to thievery to survive, reasoning that it’s safer for their 
victims to lose items of value than be associated with 
aiding them.
D8
Distinctive Quality
1
Cautious. You are considered in your 
actions, lest your carelessness give 
Shadow agents an opportunity.
2
Clever. Your sharp mind helps keep you 
one step ahead of your pursuers.
3
Cunning. Your sharp wit disguises your 
worry over your circumstances. 
4
Elusive. The game is not over simply 
because you’ve been spotted. You have 
an uncanny knack for getting out of sticky 
situations.
5
Hardened. You’ve lost so much to the 
Shadow already. You know that your 
continued existence plagues the Shadow 
as much as the damage they cause 
plagues you. You won’t let them win.
6
Keen-eyed. You always keep an eye out 
for the agents of Shadow.
7
Nimble. You have survived numerous 
attempts on your life through sheer agility.
8
Quick of Hearing. You have learned that 
hearing your enemy before you can see 
them can be the difference between life 
and death.
D6
Speciality
1
Burglary. Sometimes you don’t have the 
luxury to ask for permission to enter while 
fleeing from the Shadow. You’ve learned 
criminal methods in order to survive; 
whether you’ve put them to professional 
use is another matter.
2
Fire-making. You are adept at making do 
with what you have when you settle in for 
the night, wherever that may be to keep 
the eyes of the Shadow off you.
3
Region-lore (choose one). You’ve spent so 
much time eluding the agents of Shadow in 
a particular place that you have acquired a 
lot of information about its geography.
4
Dark Secrets. The best way to elude and 
defeat your hunters is to learn more about 
them. You study all you can about the 
Shadow.
5
Swimming. Your skill at swimming has 
saved you many times against less-adept 
pursuers. 
6
Woodwright. Sometimes you don’t 
have the convenience of your arms and 
armour. When that happens nature 
provides if you have the skills to shape it.
D6
Hope
1
I grow stronger every day; eventually I 
shall overcome my pursuers.
2
There is strength in numbers; so long 
as I remain with my company I shall be 
shielded from the Shadow.
3
I give comfort to my allies – it is possible 
to strike a blow against the Shadow.
4
The Shadow has strengthened me in 
ways that I’m certain it didn’t anticipate 
or desire.
5
My example inspires others to do the same.
6
If I could strike such a blow unaided, 
then an army of warriors like me could 
push back and destroy the Shadow.

--- PAGE 133 ---
133
Backgrounds
D6
Despair
1
It is only a matter of time before the 
Shadow destroys me.
2
I have found that more people would 
rather ignore me than stand with me.
3
No place is safe. The Shadow has eyes 
everywhere.
4
I put my friends in danger just by being 
with them.
5
I keep my emotions to myself; it is too 
dangerous to forge bonds.
6
I’ve yet to find anyone who can stop the 
Shadow – is it a lost cause?
Lure of the Road
"I want to see the wild country again before I die, and the 
Mountains."
You are a rover; the road calls to you and you must answer. 
Sometimes, rare years, you return home to friends and 
family, but it does not take long before you start longing 
for the next adventure, to explore a new land, or meet 
unusual people. 
You aren’t limited to roads or the towns that dot them. 
No, you’d just as happily camp within a cave in the Misty 
Mountains or make a lonely camp in a deep wood than 
settle down in a roadside inn for the evening. Not even 
the Shadow will deter you from traversing every nook and 
cranny in this part of the world, no matter how dark and 
dangerous.
Skill Proficiencies: Animal Handling, Survival
Feature: Weather-lore
As a seasoned traveller you have an uncanny ability to 
predict the weather; you can ‘smell’ rain or snow earlier 
than others or sense when a fog is about to roll in. You also 
know the best places to shelter from sudden storms and 
which areas to avoid. You have well-established habits 
and the ability to quickly forage what you need before 
settling in to wait out a storm. You also have a good grasp 
of creature habits in various types of weather conditions; 
you know where bears hibernate and where a Goblin 
band is likely to camp when a storm hits.
Suggested Characteristics
Those afflicted with the Lure of the Road, sometimes 
called rovers, tend to be adventuresome souls, always 
looking to explore a new land or return to an old haunt 
just to see what’s changed since they’ve last visited. 
Rovers are self-reliant and used to travelling alone, 
although they do enjoy the company of other travellers. 
Rovers also enjoy collecting stories from far-off lands, 
motivating them to visit the places they mention. 
D8
Distinctive Quality
1
Adventurous. You enjoy new challenges 
and experiences. 
2
Curious. You have a natural curiosity of 
things you haven’t experienced before; 
you want to understand them.
3
Energetic. Your enthusiasm for the road 
is infectious.
4
Hardy. Your body is used to long hours 
on the road. You are rarely tired and you 
weather extreme conditions well.
5
Keen-eyed. You are adept at spotting 
stormy weather and other dangers before 
they can affect you.
6
Quick of Hearing. You understand that 
one must listen to nature as well as see 
it; you’ve learned a lot from hearing and 
interpreting those sounds.
7
Reckless. You enjoy the road so much 
that sometimes your wanderlust 
carries you into dangerous situations 
unprepared.
8
Swift. You can move at a moment’s notice 
and keep ahead of dangers pursuing you.

--- PAGE 134 ---
134
Adventures in Middle-earth
D6
Speciality
1
Fire-making. You can make camp 
anywhere.
2
Herb-lore. Long stretches of wilderness 
have taught you much about the plants 
that grow in them.
3
Leechcraft. Sometimes you can only 
rely on yourself and your travelling 
companions when illness or injury strikes 
on the road.
4
Minstrelsy. You are skilled at entertaining 
your travelling companions. This also 
serves you well when you stop at an inn or 
tavern for an evening.
5
Story-telling. You’ve heard many stories 
while on the road and you have a gift for 
imparting them to others.
6
Trading. You have met many different 
types of people in your journeys; you’ve 
gained considerable skill in diplomacy and 
negotiation.
D6
Hope
1
Only by exploring new places can we forge 
new bonds.
2
I’ve learned so much by being out in the 
world; I’d never have learned so much 
staying at home.
3
We are all equal on the road – we need to 
rely on each other’s common decency.
4
Absence makes the heart grow fonder; 
only by leaving the familiar can we better 
appreciate it.
5
My travels only enrich my home; they 
benefit from the goods and knowledge that 
I bring back with me.
6
If you only live at home, then you have 
never truly lived.
D6
Despair
1
My travels are simply my excuse for 
getting away from problems at home.
2
My experiences against the Shadow may 
come back to haunt me – I don’t want to 
be home when that happens. It would put 
my kin in grave danger!
3
I’ve seen nothing in my travels that 
suggests that we’ll be all right when the 
Shadow descends upon us.
4
If I’ve learned anything on the road it’s 
that friendships are fleeting and only 
strong when convenient; in the end we are 
all alone.
5
I haven’t been a trusty travelling 
companion. It is only a matter of time 
before someone I’ve wronged finds me 
again and wishes to exact vengeance.
6
I can never forge strong bonds; I’m always 
on the move.

--- PAGE 135 ---
135
Backgrounds
The Magician
"Not the fellow who used to tell such wonderful tales at 
parties, about dragons and goblins and giants and the 
rescue of princesses and the unexpected luck of widow’s sons? 
Not the man who used to make such particularly excellent 
fireworks!"
When your wagon rolls into a village you are immediately 
beset by happy children who can’t wait to watch you 
perform magic under the sceptical eyes of their parents. 
You are only too happy to oblige – that is how you make 
your coin, after all – but you are careful to guard your 
illusions as real magic. Amongst your company, of course, 
you are free to operate as you truly are, a companion 
whose skills at deception, legerdemain and other such 
arts are useful assets to have on an adventure.
Skill Proficiencies: Performance, Sleight of Hand
Feature: Air of Magic
While you rely on your theatrics and prestidigitation to 
provide you with room and board in your travels, there is 
another benefit to holding yourself as a magician: people 
tend to give you the benefit of the doubt. They may not 
believe that you can do everything that you say and most 
are savvy enough to know that at least some of your tricks 
are simple legerdemain, but that doesn’t mean that you 
don’t have some true magic inside you. No one wants to 
fall victim to a spiteful curse or be accused of being an 
agent of Shadow. As a result, people tend to give you a wide 
berth and accede to reasonable requests, so long as you 
don’t take undue advantage. A barn is always available to 
you even if the inn is full, food and wine are produced on 
request, and even minor conveniences like freshly washed 
clothes or grooming can be had with a simple ask. You can 
also sway opinions by noting that you prefer a particular 
course of action and insinuate that things may go badly 
if another course is taken, but be wary – there are always 
those who’ll gladly take a few coins to rid a community of 
a troublesome ‘Wizard.’
Suggested Characteristics
Magicians are first and foremost entertainers and as such 
tend to have friendly and outgoing personalities, at least 
outwardly. They are intensely curious about ‘real magic’ 
and spend a lot of time learning what they can about these 
arcane arts and whether they are simply stage illusions or 
something else. A magician would like nothing more than 
to learn true magic, but many come to the conclusion that 
none exists.
D8
Distinctive Quality
1
Clever. Your performances rely on quick 
thinking and the ability to make others see 
what isn’t there.
2
Cunning. You use your wit to disarm your 
opponents and put them off-guard.
3
Energetic. Your almost frenzied manner is 
infectious. Those who observe you wonder 
when you have time to take a breath.
4
Keen-eyed. You are extremely perceptive, 
especially when spying someone trying to 
figure out your tricks.
5
Nimble. You have learned to move 
without others seeing you.
6
Secretive. You keep the truth of your 
illusions to yourself and don’t share your 
secrets easily.
7
Swift. A fast set of hands is crucial in your 
profession.
8
Wilful. The belief that you have magical 
powers by others gives you an edge. 
You use that to your advantage when 
pressuring others to agree with you.

--- PAGE 136 ---
136
Adventures in Middle-earth
D6
Speciality
1
Burglary. The skills you have honed for 
the stage work equally as well for  other 
pursuits.
2
Cooking. In your research you have come 
across many ‘spells’ that require boiling 
cauldrons. While you have yet to create 
any magical potions, you certainly know 
your way around a kitchen.
3
Herb-lore. Your research into the arcane 
arts has given you a strong knowledge of 
herbs.
4
Minstrelsy. You heighten your 
performance with song; happy singing 
people are more likely to believe your 
tricks.
5
Old Lore. Your scouring through old 
books and scrolls has taught you much 
about the world of ages past.
6
Story-telling. You have discovered that 
good stories and perfect timing do much to 
enhance your performances.
D6
Hope
1
Perception is reality; if we believe 
something can happen then it will.
2
I firmly believe that much of the Shadow’s 
‘power’ is simply illusory. Once we 
penetrate that we can defeat it.
3
Laughter and amusement forges stronger 
bonds than any treaty.
4
I will become a real Wizard one day so 
long as I never stop searching for the truth.
5
There is still magic in the world if we only 
open our eyes and recognise it.
6
My friends fill me with hope; I did not have 
to pay for their friendship.
D6
Despair
1
I am nothing but a charlatan who cheats 
people.
2
I have seen the old texts; the magic of 
which I search simply no longer exists.
3
If my friends knew me for what I really am, 
they’d abandon me.
4
I cannot fool the Shadow; eventually it will 
challenge me and find me lacking.
5
More people fear me – or grudgingly 
tolerate me – than will ever love me.
6
My ‘mask’ is more than one of wizardry; 
behind my assured smile I am frightened 
of magic and Shadow.
Optional Magician: Folk Healer
There are those learned in the healing arts who understand 
the power of positive thinking in one’s recovery. Perhaps 
not all of the old folk remedies work, but the patient’s 
belief in them help them get better. 
Such folk healers effectively become magicians, sprinkling 
their remedies with a healthy dose of folklore and theatrics 
to convince their patients that they are on the mend. The 
more unscrupulous amongst them hawk their ‘remedies’ 
for coin.
If you choose to be a Folk Healer, you are proficient in 
Medicine in place of Sleight of Hand. Gardener, Herb-lore, 
and Leechcraft are common specialities amongst Folk 
Healers.
Oathsworn
"And when all this land is clean of the servants of Sauron, 
I will hold the oath fulfilled, and ye shall have peace and 
depart for ever."
You are a pillar of your community, whether noble-born 
or someone who has already accomplished great deeds, 
and you have publicly sworn a great oath. Due to your 
station no one doubts that you’ll either succeed in your

--- PAGE 137 ---
137
Backgrounds
oath or die trying. Towards that end you muster all of your 
energies to fulfilling your oath, as you know that both fate 
and Man do not look kindly on oath-breakers.
Skill Proficiencies: Intimidation, Traditions
Feature: Mighty Oath
You have sworn a mighty oath, one that is now indelibly 
associated with your name. The oath itself should be both 
suitably epic and possible to accomplish; “I want to kill 
the merchant who cheated me” fails the first test, while “I 
want to rid the world of Shadow” fails the second. Vowing 
to destroy a Dragon plaguing the land is suitably epic, as 
is overthrowing an evil kingdom. 
A mighty oath carries its own legend and you often find 
yourself receiving aid from those who want to help the 
legend or even become embroiled in it. When you enter 
Lake-town, for example, you may find a merchant or two 
willing to donate a priceless weapon to your cause or re-
provision you, while an eager young would-be adventurer 
may ask to join you on your quest. 
The downside is that the subject of any such oath obviously 
wants to do away with you and if you enter a town or 
countryside that is beholden to the subject you may quickly 
find yourself in very difficult circumstances!
Fate also frowns on oath-breakers. If you ever abandon 
or break your oath, then fate conspires against you. Your 
reputation suffers and you become a magnet of ill-fortune. 
Such troubles tend to be minor at first, coaxing you back 
towards fulfilling your oath, but eventually the weight of 
them becomes so much that it destroys you in spirit if not 
of body as well (death is often too merciful for an oath-
breaker).
Suggested Characteristics
It takes a strong person to swear an oath as such things 
aren’t taken lightly. Thus, the Oathsworn tend to be bold 
and prideful, firmly believing that they are capable of 
living up to the terms of their oath. They tend to steer 
clear of people, places and events that may cause them 
to waver and an Oathsworn dreads the day when some 
worthy cause forces them to choose between doing what 
is right versus keeping their word.
D8
Distinctive Quality
1
Bold. You have no doubts that you shall 
fulfil your oath and accept any challenge 
along the way.
2
Determined. You will not rest until your 
oath is fulfilled.
3
Honourable. Your code of honour does 
not end with your oath.
4
Lordly. Whether you were born of noble 
blood your deeds and actions are those of a 
person worthy of swearing such an oath.
5
Proud. You have accomplished many 
things before you swore the oath. You enjoy 
sharing tales of these deeds with others.
6
Tall. You tower over others, both in body 
and deed.
7
Vengeful. One of the reasons that you 
swore an oath is that you do not take 
insults or slights lightly. Such an act, in 
fact, is perhaps the reason for your oath.
8
Wrathful. You swore your oath in a fit of 
rage; you are quick to anger.
D6
Speciality
1
Elven-lore. Your oath is tied to the Elves; you 
have learned all that you can about them.
2
Enemy-lore (choose one). Your oath is 
against a particular culture or someone 
within that culture. In the course of 
carrying out your oath you have learned 
much about this foe.
3
Dark Secrets. You have sworn an oath 
against an agent of the Shadow and have 
pieced together what you could to defeat it.
4
Smoking. While you are steadfast in your 
oath, you enjoy quiet moments of reflection.
5
Story-telling. You enjoy imparting your 
story to others.
6
Trading. Fulfilling your oath often means 
that you need others’ aid; you are a skilled 
negotiator.

--- PAGE 138 ---
138
Adventures in Middle-earth
D6
Hope
1
My oath is a worthy one; it inspires others 
to join me.
2
I am strong enough to see my oath 
through.
3
My enemies respect me even if they do not 
fear me.
4
I know that I can rely on my friends to 
help me fulfil my oath.
5
My reputation forges bonds and prompts 
others to act.
6
I know that I shall not fall until I have an 
opportunity to fulfil my oath.
D6
Despair
1
My oath was made hastily and not in the 
proper frame of mind; my quarry is not 
evil yet I am sworn to destroy them.
2
Being an Oathsworn is intimidating; no 
one truly understands me enough to get 
close to me.
3
My friends fear that my path is not 
theirs and that I would betray them in 
furtherance of my oath; I am not sure that 
they are wrong.
4
One day I am sure that my fealty towards 
my oath will bring great pain to another. 
5
Furthering my oath has already taken so 
much from me. Will there be anything left 
when I fulfil it?
6
If I succeed in my oath I shall only create 
an opportunity for something far worse.
Optional Oathsworn: The Devoted Friend
Some Player-heroes don’t need to make a formal oath to 
cement their bond with another, their love is enough to 
create a bond that is unbreakable. No matter what trouble 
the object of their devotion finds themselves in, the Devoted 
Friend will always have their back and help them to see 
any difficulties and obstacles through. While such Player-
heroes don’t have a ‘great oath,’ their devotion is apparent 
to those around them and devoted friends always find aid 
from those who are genuinely touched by such devotion. 
If you take this option, you are proficient in Insight and 
Persuasion instead of Intimidation and Traditions.
Reluctant Adventurer
To the end of his days Bilbo could never remember how he 
found himself outside, without a hat, a walking-stick or 
any money, or anything that he usually took with him when 
he went out, leaving his second breakfast half-finished and 
quite un-washed-up, pushing his keys into Gandalf’s hands, 
and running as fast as his furry feet could carry him down 
the lane, past the great Mill, across the Water, and then on 
for a mile or more.
If you had your way, you’d lead an idyllic life staying at 
home and tending your garden, perfectly boring and 
peaceful. You don’t know why you keep leaving home and 
walking the roads and trails of the land. It is never your 
choice, at least never your direct choice, but circumstances 
conspire and there you are, a hundred miles from home, 
cold, wet and without your handkerchiefs. You never 
actually enjoy your adventures… do you?
Skill Proficiencies: Medicine, Nature
Feature: Pathetic and Bedraggled
You can take on the mien of a sad, desperate and despondent 
figure. As long as you are not threatening, strangers will

--- PAGE 139 ---
139
Backgrounds
take pity on you and give you a warm place to sleep 
for the night, hot food and a bit of comfort. Every time 
this happens you promise yourself that you will just 
stay home, yet you always soon find yourself back out 
in the Wild, living off of roots and berries, without any 
handkerchiefs. 
Suggested Characteristics
Reluctant Adventurers are always easy to spot; they are cold 
and miserable and they tend to let everyone around them 
know about it. They are only on this adventure because 
of some skill or talent that the rest of the company lacks. 
Deep down inside, however, some Reluctant Adventurers 
really enjoy the thrill of exploring new places and having 
grand adventures. Such individuals don’t mind sharing 
one or two moments of merriment at their circumstances 
but they are careful to let those around them know that 
such moments are fleeting.
D8
Distinctive Quality
1
Cautious: You prefer a careful – you 
would say sensible – approach to all 
your adventures, as you know things can 
always go wrong.
2.
Clever. Perhaps it’s because you don’t 
think like an adventurer but you often 
think of ingenious solutions to company 
problems.
3
Cunning. Your words are dripping with 
sarcasm and you have a way of cutting 
people where it hurts the most.
4
Grim. You can’t conceal your misery 
and it makes others uneasy around you.
5
Gruff. You’re here because the company 
needs your skills; no more, no less.
6
Merciful. Your own failings on the road 
give you sympathy for the failings of others.
7
Suspicious. Your naivety got you into 
this mess; you won’t be caught off-guard 
again.
8
Wary. You don’t trust anyone out here in 
the strange wilderness; everyone is out 
to get you.
D6
Speciality
1
Burglary. Your company values your 
skills at finding a way into places 
unnoticed.
2
Cooking. You keep your company well-
fed and you’re always on the look-out 
for new recipes and ingredients; you 
may as well make something out of this 
miserable travelling!
3
Elven-lore. Unfortunately for you, there 
aren’t many who are well-versed in the 
ways of the Elves.
4
Leechcraft. The company brought you 
along because you are the only one who 
can patch them up when they invariably 
run into trouble.
5
Old Lore. Rather than take a library of 
books with them to an ancient ruin, your 
company chose to take you and your vast 
knowledge of the past.
6
Tunnelling. Few know the caves and 
tunnels – and the dangers contained 
therein – as well as you do.
D6
Hope
1
My fond memories of home can get me 
through any difficulties.
2
I know that one day I shall rest by my fire 
again.
3
I am only out in this miserable world 
because I am needed. It feels good to be 
needed!
4
I keep my friends grounded and remind 
them of what they can look forward to 
when they return to their homes.
5
I shall have such stories to tell when I 
return home!
6
I revel in the camaraderie that I’ve never 
had at home, even when it’s under such 
miserable conditions.

--- PAGE 140 ---
140
Adventures in Middle-earth
D6
Despair
1
I shall never see my home again. 
2
I am not the expert my company thought 
I was.
3
Fate hates me; I am constantly tossed 
into these dangerous situations in the 
hopes that the world will finally be rid of 
me!
4
I am ill-suited for adventure. One day my 
friends will let their guard down and I 
won’t be able to defend myself.
5
Terrible things will happen if I don’t go 
home soon!
6
Even if I get home, I am sure that 
something horrible will follow me back.
Seeker of the Lost
"Where iss it, where iss it: my Precious, my Precious? It’s 
out, it is, and we wants it."
There is something missing from the world and you feel 
that it is your mission to find it, whether is be something 
from your own history or from those close to you. You 
might wish to reclaim an ancestral home, a forgotten 
treasure, or long faded lineage. Whatever it is, the search 
drives you and threatens to consume you. 
Skill Proficiencies: Lore, Investigation
Feature: Lore of the Lost
While you have not found that which you seek, you have 
come across much lost lore concerning other issues. You 
know titbits of lore, hints of where lost kingdoms lie, ruins 
lay buried and relics have been discarded. 
When you hear about a new region or ruin for the first time, 
you probably know at least a bit of lore about it and where 
you can likely find even more information (such as a song 
known to minstrels of a particular region, an old book in 
a library in Rivendell, Goblin cave paintings in the Misty 
Mountains and so on).
Suggested Characteristics
While they are driven to uncover some mystery, Seekers 
of the Lost are not bound to it. Many Seekers are happy 
to take their time uncovering the past, joining companies 
on grand adventures that may hopefully provide an extra 
clue or two towards solving their mystery. A few are single-
mindedly driven and will leave no stone unturned to solve 
the mystery that vexes them.
D8
Distinctive Quality
1
Adventurous. You enjoy seeking out new 
challenges and experiences.
2
Clever. One of the reasons why you know 
that you are going to find what you seek is 
because of the intuitive leaps you’ve made 
while examining the clues.
3
Curious. You have a natural curiosity, 
especially for things that are missing.
4
Determined. Nothing will stop you from 
finding what you seek; no challenge is 
impossible to overcome along the way.
5
Energetic. No matter how remote your 
chances of finding what you seek, your 
enthusiasm for the hunt is inspiring to 
others.
6
Hardy. You’ll walk to the ends of the 
earth to find what you seek.
7
Patient. You know that you are going to 
find what you seek eventually. It is just a 
matter of time.
8
Reckless. Sometimes you let your desire 
to find what you seek cloud your better 
judgement.

--- PAGE 141 ---
141
Backgrounds
D6
Speciality
1
Burglary. Finding what you seek often 
means finding a way into places where 
you aren’t supposed to be .
2
Elven-lore. A good part of your quest is 
tied to the Elves and you have learned 
much about them.
3
Folk-lore. Your quest is steeped in the 
traditions and stories of various cultures.
4
Old Lore. In order to uncover something 
lost in the present you’ve had to do lots of 
research into the half-forgotten past.
5
Rhymes of Lore. Much information in 
your quest is hidden in verse.
6
Dark Secrets. Your quest touches the 
Shadow and you’ve been forced to learn 
more than is safe about the Enemy.
D6
Hope
1
Any knowledge I gain to further my quest 
is worthwhile.
2
I know that the Shadow will tremble the 
day we recover a lost relic.
3
My friends know that my bond with them 
is stronger than any personal quest.
4
By recovering the past I can make things 
better in the present.
5
Even just the stories and verses of a lost 
relic bring hope to all.
6
My quest is my resolve against the 
machinations of Shadow.
D6
Despair
1
I am certain that someone else has 
already solved the mystery; I shall be 
disappointed when I find the resting 
place empty.
2
I shall never find the information that I 
need for my quest.
3
I don’t believe that the relic, when found, 
will live up to its tales.
4
I feel that my quest is distracting me from 
something far more important.
5
My friends believe that I would put them 
in danger to further my quest and I’m not 
certain that they are wrong.
6
I’m certain that when I find what I am 
looking for that it will be something that 
was better left alone.
World Weary
West, west away, the round sun is falling.
Grey ship, grey ship, do you hear them calling?
The voices of my people that have gone before me?
I will leave, I will leave the woods that bore me;
For our days are ending and our years failing.
I will pass the wide waters lonely sailing. 
You’ve had quite enough of the world; you’re either very 
long-lived or you’ve just seen so much in your life that 
you’ve grown tired of it. All of the pain and misery that 
you have endured was for naught; you simply want to live 
out the rest of your days until that merciful final journey 
commences. Unfortunately, something always calls you 
back to face danger one last time…but you’ll never admit 
that that ‘something’ likely comes from within.
Skill Proficiencies: History, Insight
Feature: Seasoned Connections
Through the course of your long career you’ve met many 
people and made friends throughout the land; it is rare 
for you to enter a large town or city where you don’t know

--- PAGE 142 ---
142
Adventures in Middle-earth
at least one person of import. Usually you can call upon 
these old connections for specific aid and favours based 
upon their professions and influence.
Your enemy amongst these connections is time. A lot 
could happen between the heyday of your travels and 
now. Old friends that owed you favours may be dead and 
their children uninterested in helping you, a local prince 
may have fallen under the influence of the Shadow, or 
something unresolved since the last time you left still 
festers. Such difficulties are even more pronounced if you 
are a member of a long-lived race and it has been decades 
since you last set out on an adventure. Whenever you call 
on old contacts for aid be aware that your Loremaster 
may twist them into something else due to the passage 
of time.
Suggested Characteristics
The World Weary are often cynical and tired; they have 
seen everything before and there is nothing new under 
the sun. They may appear happy and content, but there 
is always the hint that they are missing something from 
life or what there is left of it. In truth, the World Weary 
have simply fulfilled everything they thought they had 
accomplished – or given up hope of accomplishing – and 
they are eager, even if they don’t realise it, to find a new 
purpose in life.
D8
Distinctive Quality
1
Cautious. You’ve seen it all before and 
you’re not going to get caught making old 
mistakes again.
2
Forthright. You no longer have time for 
niceties. You mean what you say and say 
what you mean.
3
Grim. Everyone knows of your past 
exploits; you intimidate them with your 
mere presence.
4
Hardened. You retired to get away from 
all of the pain in life. What can this latest 
adventure offer but more of the same?
5
Just. You have the wisdom of the ages; 
just by looking into someone’s eyes you 
can take their full measure.
6
Merciful. You’ve seen enough injustice 
and spite in this world that you can 
afford a little mercy.
7
Patient. There is no need to rush things; 
everything comes with time.
8
Steadfast. You know how wise you are; 
your judgements are generally the best.

--- PAGE 143 ---
143
Backgrounds
D6
Speciality
1
Beast-lore. You have spent most of your 
life hunting. There are few animals of 
which you aren’t familiar – and learning 
of one is enough to goad you out of 
retirement.
2
Gardener. You became a gardener when 
you settled down; it brings you peace.
3
Leechcraft. There was much injury and 
suffering in your life and you were often 
the cause of much of it. You have decided 
to try healing people instead of hurting 
them.
4
Region-lore (choose one). You are well 
versed in a particular region; you either 
spent a good part of your life there or it is 
where you have settled.
5
Smith-craft. You have been forging 
blades for a long time; there is no one 
better.
6
Trading. In your long life you have 
learned that talk is often more useful – 
and more destructive – than any sword.
D6
Hope
1
My allies can use my vast experience and 
wisdom that I have gathered over the 
course of my life.
2
I know the value of true friends and 
wouldn’t travel with someone I can’t 
trust.
3
I’ve seen worse from the Shadow. It didn’t 
destroy us before; it won’t now.
4
Even at my age, there is always 
something new worth discovering.
5
We don’t have to repeat our mistakes.
6
I have accomplished what I have set out 
to do before; I am certain that I can do so 
again.
D6
Despair
1
I’ve seen and experienced all there is 
worth seeing and experiencing.
2
We can never fully destroy the Shadow; 
we can only hold it at bay for a bit before 
the inevitable.
3
If I have learned anything in life, it’s that 
people don’t change. It’s just not worth 
the effort to try.
4
The Shadow has already won; we are just 
too stubborn to realise it.
5
Most of my friends and allies are gone; 
this is no longer my world.
6
I’ve never made a friend who hasn’t 
betrayed me at some point; you’re no 
different.
Optional World-Weary: The Call of 
the Sea (Elves Only)
The Elves are leaving Middle-earth. As the long years go by 
and the Shadow deepens, more and more of the Firstborn 
seek the Grey Havens and take to the ships that wait for 
them there. They go West, sailing the straight path to the 
Undying Lands beyond. If you take this background, you 
are leaving Middle-earth and are on your way to the Sea, 
although you may take a winding road to get there. Replace 
the Seasoned Connections feature with Sea-Dreams.
Feature: Sea Dreams
You often have dreams of the shores of the Undying Lands 
calling you, and sometimes the voices in your dreams 
bring you news of distant events or things yet to come. The 
Loremaster will inform you if you have such a prophetic 
dream or warning from the Valar.

--- PAGE 145 ---
Gimli, my son,
 
King Bard has requested that I find equipment for a fellowship of 
adventurers he wishes to send North into the Waste. One of his many 
projects is to map that forsaken land, and he is sending a company of 
adventurers to make  camping places there for his cartographers to 
work from. Clearing out Goblins and the like will doubtless be part of 
the task. Seems plenty fled the Battle and are living up there. 
 
He requests I find them a selection of decent swords and axes, caps of 
iron and corslets of mail of Dwarf-make. I would go but my hands 
are full with other business. I trust this task to you, and know you 
won’t let me down. See if you can’t get some Waybread from the 
Elves staying on the River Road too. Maybe send someone else to ask 
them, if you cannot be civil? 
 
Bring the goods to my chambers in the Palace. If you meet the 
company tasked with this work, you are not to go with them on their 
expedition. I have need of you here, no matter how much I know you 
wish to travel further afield
 
Warm regards,
 
Father
Equipment

--- PAGE 146 ---
146
Adventures in Middle-earth
- Equipment -
“They went down the slope, and across the 
stream where it dived under the road, 
and up the next slope, and up and down 
another shoulder of the hills; and by that time 
their cloaks, blankets, water, food and other 
gear already seemed a heavy burden.” 
This section details a selection of equipment that Player-
heroes will find in Middle-earth, and in Wilderland in 
particular. Loremasters should feel free to include any 
other equipment they feel is appropriate for their own 
games, but this section holds fast to things mentioned in 
The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings. By fitting out your 
Player-heroes with things described here, your adventurers 
will feel more like a part of Middle-earth.
Silver & Gold
In the North, for many years barter was the rule. Small 
settlements traded their labour and the goods they 
produced for whatever they needed from their neighbours, 
with what small coins they had going to the occasional 
travelling pedlar for what they could not make themselves. 
The only coins in circulation in Wilderland came then 
almost entirely from the Kingdom under the Mountain 
before the coming of Smaug.
With the re-emergence of Dale and Erebor, along with the 
rebuilt Lake-town, commerce has returned in earnest and 
new currency has begun to circulate once more, especially 
along the most used trade routes. The coins most often 
exchanged generally fall into three (broad) categories: 
gold pieces, silver pennies and copper coins.
Gold pieces are very valuable and relatively rare. The 
majority found in the North come from the Lonely 
Mountain. Indeed, older coins near invariably come from 
the Dragon’s treasure and many people have shown some 
propensity to hoard them and secret them away. King Dáin 
ordered portions of Smaug’s hoard smelted and minted 
anew, meaning there are new gold pieces about bearing the 
Ironfoot’s grim visage, but so vast was the wealth of Erebor 
that it simply wasn’t practical to try to render the entire 
hoard down.
Silver pennies are the most common currency of the 
North, in use from the streets of Dale to the inns of the 
Shire. Silver coins from Erebor and Dale of old were used 
throughout the Anduin Vales and in Esgaroth throughout 
the Dragon’s ‘reign’, and new silver pennies flow from the 
Lonely Mountain regularly now. Indeed, most other folk 
say (quietly, out of the earshot of Dwarves) that Durin’s 
folk are far more willing to part with silver, than gold. 
Copper coins have the least worth. Many aren’t even 
properly struck coins, just bits of vaguely circular copper. 
A decent meal and a mug of ale can be had for a few 
coppers.
Exchange
1 gold piece = 20 silver pennies
1 silver penny = 12 copper coins
1 gold piece = 240 copper coins
In the following equipment sections, the various coins are 
abbreviated so:
gold piece = (g), silver penny = (s), copper coin = (c).
While coins are how most monetary transactions take 
place, gem stones of various size and type are frequently 
used if particularly large sums are involved. The jewellery 
smiths of the North have long produced beautiful work 
and with the new wealth arising in parts of Wilderland, 
they are hard at work once more.
Barter, Trade & Gift
Still, for most people – especially those in Poor, Frugal or 
Martial cultures – coins are rarely used, and barter is the 
order of the day. The majority of folk tend to their own 
farmsteads or share in the wealth of their village under the 
protection of a lord or chieftain, and trade only for those 
few things they cannot produce themselves. 
Many Martial cultures operate under a gift economy, 
where the lord or chieftain owns all goods, and apportions 
gifts of goods and property to his loyal folk in line with 
their rank. The only merchants seen in many places are 
Dwarven traders and smiths, exiled wanderers who are

--- PAGE 147 ---
147
Equipment
now making their way back to Erebor. Coin is not always 
easily spent where such traders cannot be found.
Player-heroes may obtain equipment through purchase, 
barter or as gifts (see Audiences, page 195), and they will 
also sometimes  acquire new items as Cultural Heirlooms. 
In Middle-earth sometimes gaining equipment is easy – 
under the protection and hospitality of a generous lord 
all your needs will be met.  Out in the wild, amongst the 
far flung farmsteads things are not so easy, and Player-
heroes may find themselves chopping wood to pay for an 
evening’s meal when coin will not do.
Standards of Living 
The Player-heroes in Adventures in Middle-earth are 
adventurers, individuals frequently used to finding their 
own sustenance in the Wild, rather than reaching for a 
purse. Yet each hero has a people from which they came 
and a lifestyle they generally lead when not out upon the 
road. Therefore, each character has a Standard of Living 
based on the relative affluence of their culture.
A character’s Standard of Living represents the 
quality of their incidental gear as well as how they 
present themselves. Loremasters will take note of a 
character’s Standard of Living under appropriate social 
circumstances. 
For example, a Poor warrior is far less likely to be granted 
access to a Rich merchant’s estate without a very persuasive 
story.
The Standard of Living rankings are Poor, Frugal, Martial, 
Prosperous or Rich.
Standards of Living costs for 1 year
Poor 1g
Frugal 3g
Martial 6g
Prosperous 12g
Rich 24g
These are the minimum costs, and include household 
costs for more affluent individuals.
Adventurers & Standards of Living
In the end he would only take two small chests, one filled with 
silver, and the other with gold, such as one strong pony could 
carry. "That will be quite as much as I can manage"said he. 
For adventurers, the main effect of Standard of Living 
is determining starting equipment. Once a character 
embarks on the curious and somewhat suspect career 
of adventurer, the usual customs no longer apply. 
While a farmer or craftsman might make a humble but 
honest living, adventurers tend to be either penniless or 
astoundingly wealthy. Adventurers rely on the treasure 
they win from Troll-hoards and Dragon’s lairs, or the 
rewards of powerful patrons, instead of having a regular 
income.
A wealthy adventurer may have the money to live richly, 
or even ostentatiously well, but wild spending will not 
necessarily win the respect of others. Bilbo returned from 
his quest a wealthy Hobbit, but was viewed with suspicion 
for the rest of his days in the Shire. 
The material comforts and relative wealth enjoyed by an 
average person at each Standard of Living are described in 
the following entries. These serve as a guide to conditions 
Player-heroes can expect to encounter in different cultures 
as they travel across Wilderland and beyond. Presented in 
order of increasing relative wealth, each Standard of Living 
rank is roughly twice as affluent as the rank preceding it.
Poor
Impoverished people are often subsistence farmers, 
probably suffering from a bad harvest season, a harsh 
winter, or the aftermath of a plague or war. Some are 
afflicted by bandits or worse, Orc raids, that prevent them 
from even having a chance at thriving. They struggle 
every day to find what they need to survive, and have no 
time or resources to look for anything beyond the bare 
necessities. The equipment of adventurers from such 
cultures generally represents the entirety of their family's 
wealth and may very well be all they own.
Frugal
Frugal folk usually sleep in comfortable common halls 
(or tents, if nomadic) and eat the produce of their own 
lands and pastures. They wear simple clothes at most 
times, although they may possess finer garments for

--- PAGE 148 ---
148
Adventures in Middle-earth
special gatherings like season festivals, marriages or 
funerals. Jewels and other superior ornaments, if any are 
in the keeping of members of the society, are treasured as 
possessions belonging to the entire community, and are 
passed down through generations of appointed keepers.
A frugal hall is a simple affair, shared with livestock 
and dogs, the floor strewn with reeds.  Often lacking 
a smokehole, a frugal hall will be thick with smoke 
from the central peat fire. Several families may share 
the space, and a simple meal of self-grown produce is 
always warming in the cauldron. 
Adventurers coming from a Frugal folk do not usually 
carry anything of unusual worth (unless as part of 
their war gear) and generally avoid ostentation, with 
the possible exception of one or two pieces of expensive 
clothing or common jewellery, like a rich mantle or a 
golden necklace or bracelet; likely a token of their status 
among their peers. Consequently, they can rarely afford to 
pay for anything out of the ordinary, and prefer to find or 
make what they need instead.
 
Examples: Woodmen of Wilderland
Martial
Individuals belonging to a Martial culture often live 
according to their status in the military hierarchy, with 
simple warriors and soldiers sleeping together in a 
common area; probably as part of the household of a 
renowned chieftain or noble. 
Meals are usually consumed in large halls, with seat and 
tables arranged to observe rules of precedence or respect. 
Clothing reflects the military status of an individual as 
well, or that of his family.
Martial Player-heroes have enough resources to look 
after themselves, and to pay for things such as simple 
accommodation on the road and the occasional fancy 
meal. Ever mindful of the cost of any luxury, both to the 
pocketbook and their martial spirit, they often lead an 
austere life, or resort to haggling to lower the price of 
whatever they are trying to acquire.
 
Examples: Beornings, Dúnedain, Elves of Mirkwood, 
Riders of Rohan
Prosperous
Almost all families belonging to a Prosperous culture 
can afford to live in separate, private houses. Important 
individuals wear fine clothing and often have one or more 
servants in their service at home. Prosperous folk generally 
have a successful business or various investments that 
continually bring them a steady flow of wealth.
Player-heroes coming from a Prosperous culture can pay 
for many small expenses encountered along a journey 
and might even be able to pay for a poorer off companion, 
if need be. This includes, for example, paying for a

--- PAGE 149 ---
149
Equipment
comfortable inn (as opposed to sleeping outdoors), buying 
rounds for everyone at the tavern, and hiring beasts of 
burden (such as ponies) for a journey.
Examples: Bardings, Hobbits of the Shire, Men of Bree, 
Men of the Lake, Men of Minas Tirith
Rich
Members of a Rich culture live amidst all sorts of luxuries, 
reaping the fruits of flourishing trade or vast treasure. 
Although those less well-off warn that affluence can easily 
lead to spiritual or even physical weakness, the availability 
of material wealth instead may set an individual free to 
focus on more lofty matters, like the perfection of a craft 
or art.
Rich adventurers are more well off than their Prosperous 
fellows, but not excessively so. Their life on the move does 
not let them take full advantage of their resources, many 
of which are bound up in investments or tied to ownership 
of businesses or land. Their gear is frequently the best that 
money can secure, beautifully engraved or decorated, as 
well as perfectly functional.
 
Examples: Dwarves of Erebor
Weapons and Armour
On the following pages are descriptions for various types 
of protective gear or weapons available to Player-heroes 
in Wilderland. Most forms of medium or light armour and 
all simple weapons can be obtained in any settlement of 
the Free Folk; heavier metal armours or martial weapons 
are made in only a few places – a traveler is unlikely to 
find a fine broadsword or a corslet of mail in the lands of 
the Woodmen, for example.
Northmen Great House
A great house features a long pillared hall with three aisles, tables, benches and three central wide hearths. Woven 
cloths or painted shields with images of ancient tales or family devices hang from pillar to pillar. The side aisles 
often have raised platforms for sleeping cots and personal items. Openings in the ceiling let out the smoke produced 
by the fire-places. Two doors open on the shortest sides, usually placed to face north and south. Woodcarvings often 
grace the doorposts and the base and capitals of each pillar, with animal frets and other decorations.

--- PAGE 150 ---
150
Adventures in Middle-earth
Armour
Armour
Cost
Armour Class (AC)
Strength
Stealth
Weight
Light Armour
Leather jerkin
10s
11+Dex modifier
-
-
10 lb.
Leather corslet
45s
12+Dex modifier
-
-
13 lb.
Medium Armour
Hide
10s
12+Dex modifier (Max 2)
-
-
12 lb.
Corslet of Mail
50s
13+Dex modifier (Max 2)
-
-
20 lb.
Scale hauberk
60s
14+Dex modifier (Max 2)
-
Disadvantage
45 lb.
Heavy Armour
Ring-mail
40s
14
-
Disadvantage
40 lb.
Heavy mail
75s
16
Str 13
Disadvantage
55 lb.
 Shields
Shield
10s
+2
-
-
6 lb.
Great Shield
30s
+4
Str 13
Disadvantage
35 lb.

--- PAGE 151 ---
151
Equipment
New shield
 
Great Shield
Huge and round or barrel-shaped, 
these shields are carried in battle by 
the sturdiest of warriors, and are 
considered too cumbersome and 
unwieldy by many. Great shields 
can only be used by Size Medium 
or larger warriors.
 
Other Weapons & Armour
Only weapons and armour specifically mentioned 
in Tolkien’s works are included in these tables. 
Loremasters wishing to include other weapons may do 
so, but should take care to preserve the spirit of Middle-
earth, which is evoked in the small details.  Middle-
earth draws on influences from Beowulf, The Kalevala 
and the Norse sagas, and the arms and armour 
described come from these sources.Unusual items could 
be seen as exotic in Wilderland. Consider putting them 
in the hands of travelers from distant cultures – for 
example, it would not be unreasonable to decide that the 
Easterlings might wield halberds or carry crossbows.
Weapons
Name
Cost
Damage
Weight Properties
Simple Melee Weapons
Club
24c
1d4 bludgeoning
2 lb.
Light 
Dagger
2s
1d4 piercing
1 lb.
Finesse, light, thrown (range 20/60)
Great Club
48c
1d8 bludgeoning
10 lb.
Two-handed
Hand-Axe
5s
1d6 slashing
2 lb.
Light, thrown (range 20/60)
Hammer
2s
1d4 bludgeoning
2 lb.
Light, thrown (range 20/60)
Mace
4s
1d6 bludgeoning
4 lb.
-
Staff
5s
1d6 bludgeoning
4 lb.
Versatile (1d8)
Spear
3s
1d6 piercing
3 lb.
Thrown (20/60), versatile (1d8)
Simple Ranged Weapons
Short Bow
25s
1d6 piercing
2 lb.
Ammunition (range 80/320), two-handed
Sling
24c
1d4 bludgeoning
-
Ammunition (range 30/120)
Martial Melee Weapons
Axe
10s
1d8 slashing
4 lb.
Versatile (1d10)
Great Axe
30s
1d12 slashing
7 lb.
Heavy, two-handed
Great Spear
20s
1d12 piercing
9 lb.
Heavy, reach, two-handed
Heavy Scimitar
50s
2d6 slashing
6 lb.
Heavy, two-handed
Long Sword
40s
1d8 slashing
3 lb.
Versatile (1d10)
Mattock
20s
2d6 piercing
10 lb.
Heavy, two-handed
Scimitar
25s
1d6 slashing
3 lb.
Finesse, light
Short Sword
10s
1d6 piercing
2 lb.
Finesse, light
Broadsword
30s
1d8 slashing
3 lb.
Finesse
Warhammer
15s
1d8 bludgeoning
2 lb.
Versatile (1d10)
Martial Ranged Weapons
Great Bow
50s
1d8 piercing
3 lb.
Ammunition (range 150/600), heavy, two-handed

--- PAGE 152 ---
152
Adventures in Middle-earth
New Weapon
Mattock
A heavy digging implement, sporting a curved head with 
a point on one side and a spade-like ‘blade’ on the other. 
King Dáin’s Iron Guard and a number of his folk from 
the Iron Hills choose to wield their mattocks in battle to 
fearsome effect.
Dwarf-Forged Weapons and Armour
While the Dwarves of Erebor may no longer be able to 
forge weapons and armour with the skill their forefathers 
possessed, what they do make are still the finest armaments 
and mail to be found for purchase in Middle-earth. A 
warrior that wishes to acquire a piece of Dwarf-forged 
wargear will need to go to Dale (or Lake-town, though the 
price will be further marked up!) and secure one.
A Dwarf-forged Weapon costs a base of 2 gold pieces + 3x 
the listed base cost of the desired weapon. A suit of Dwarf-
forged Mail costs 5 gold pieces + 2x the listed base cost. 
For example, a long sword normally costs 40 silver pennies 
(2 gold pieces). Thus a Dwarf-forged long sword costs 8 gold 
pieces.
Dwarf-smiths generally craft only the following weapons 
to their standards: Axe, Great Axe, Long Sword, Short 
Sword, and Broadsword. A Player-hero who wishes to 
secure a different weapon – a dagger or a spear, perhaps 
– will have to convince a Dwarf-smith to accept such a 
commission. 
Since agreeing to make such a weapon could, in Dwarven 
social circles, reflect back on the smith, the character 
will have to have enough reputation to make it worth the 
smith’s while, along with several additional gold pieces to 
persuade him.
Dwarf-smiths forge Corslets of mail, Scale Hauberks, 
Ring-mail, and Heavy Mail. No inducement will convince 
them to make lesser armours.
A Dwarf-forged Weapon adds a +1 bonus to all attack and 
damage rolls made with it.
A suit of Dwarf-forged Armour causes all critical hits 
against its wearer to become normal hits.
Item	
Cost 
Brewer’s supplies 	
20s
Calligrapher's supplies 	
10s
Carpenter’s tools 	
8s
Cartographer’s tools 	
15s
Cobbler’s tools 	
5s
Cook’s utensils 	
1s
Dice set 	
1s
Gaming set 	
1s
Glassblower’s tools 	
30s
Herbalism kit 	
5s
Jeweller’s tools 	
25s
Item	
Cost
Leatherworker’s tools 	
5s
Mason’s tools 	
10s
Painter’s supplies	
10s
Pipe Smoking supplies 	
5s
Potter’s tools 	
10s
Smith’s tools 	
20s
Thieves' tools 	
25s
Tinker’s tools 	
50s
Weaver’s tools 	
1s
Woodcarver’s tools	
1s
Musical Instrument	
Cost
Drum	
6s
Fiddle	
25s
Flute	
2s
Lute 	
35s
Lyre 	
30s
Horn 	
3s
Viol	
30s
Artisan’s tools

--- PAGE 153 ---
153
Equipment
Item	
Cost 	 Weight
Backpack 	
2s 	
5 lb.
Barrel 	
2s 	
70 lb.
Basket 	
90c 	
2 lb.
Bedroll 	
1s 	
7 lb.
Bell 	
1s 	
—
Blanket 	
120c 	
3 lb.
Block and tackle 	
1s 	
5 lb.
Book 	
25s 	
5 lb.
Bottle, glass 	
2s 	
2 lb.
Bucket 	
12c 	
2 lb.
Candle 	
3c	
 —
Case, map or scroll 	
1s 	
1 lb.
Chain (10 feet) 	
5s 	
10 lb.
Chalk (1 piece) 	
2c	
 —
Chest 	
5s 	
25 lb.
Clothes, common 	
120c 	
3 lb.
Clothes, costume 	
5s 	
4 lb.
Clothes, fine 	
15s 	
6 lb.
Clothes, spring & summer traveller’s 	 2s 	
4 lb.
Clothes, fall & winter traveller’s 	
5s 	
8 lb.
Crowbar 	
2s 	
5 lb.
Dalish Fireworks 	
1g 	
—
Dwarven Toys 	
1s to 5g 	
1 lb.
Fishing tackle 	
1s 	
4 lb.
Flask or tankard 	
5c 	
1 lb.
Grappling hook 	
2s 	
4 lb.
Hammer 	
1s 	
3 lb.
Hammer, sledge 	
2s 	
10 lb.
Healer’s kit 	
5s 	
3 lb.
Hourglass 	
25s 	
1 lb.
Ink (1 ounce bottle) 	
10s	
 —
Ink pen 	
6c 	
—
Jug 	
5c 	
4 lb.
Ladder (10 feet) 	
1c 	
25 lb.
Lamp 	
120c 	
1 lb.
Lantern, bullseye 	
10s 	
2 lb.
Item	
Cost 	 Weight
Lantern, hooded 	
5s 	
2 lb.
Lock 	
10s	
1 lb.
Magnifying glass 	
5g 	
—
Manacles 	
2s 	
6 lb.
Mirror, steel 	
5s 	
½ lb.
Oil (flask) 	
20c 	
1 lb.
Parchment (one sheet) 	
20c 	
—
Pick, miner’s 	
2s 	
10 lb.
Pocket handkerchief	
1s	
—
Pot, iron 	
2s 	
10 lb.
Pouch 	
10c 	
1 lb.
Quiver 	
1s 	
1 lb.
Rations (1 day) 	
120c 	
2 lb.
Robes 	
1s 	
4 lb.
Rope, hempen (50 feet) 	
1s 	
10 lb.
Sack 	
3cp 	
½ lb.
Saddle 	
1g 	
30 lb.
Scale, merchant’s 	
5s 	
3 lb.
Sealing wax 	
120c	
 —
Shovel 	
2s 	
5 lb.
Signal whistle 	
15c 	
—
Signet ring 	
5s 	
—
Soap 	
8c 	
—
Spikes, iron (10) 	
1s 	
5 lb.
Tent, two-person 	
2s 	
20 lb.
Tinderbox 	
120c 	
1 lb.
Torch 	
3c 	
1 lb.
Travel Pots and Pans 	
50c 	
1 lb.
Vial 	
1s	
 —
War Horn 	
10s 	
2 lb.
Waterskin 	
40c 	
5 lb. (full)
Whetstone 	
3c 	
—
Ammunition
Arrows (20) 	
1s 	
1 lb.
Sling bullets (20) 	
10c 	
1½ lb.
Equipment

--- PAGE 154 ---
154
Adventures in Middle-earth
Dalish Fireworks
Small explosives that, soon after being lit, make a burst of 
sound, light or both. The fireworks produced by the fire-
workers of Dale range from small whizz-bangs to teeth-
rattling thunder-claps, and from small fire-flowers to 
full-sized burning shapes in the sky. Firework creation is 
a relatively young art and they are not very robust as yet. 
Every time a firework is lit, roll a d20: on a 1 it’s a dud; 
fireworks that were ever exposed to inclement weather or 
doused in water fail to ignite on a 1-10. Fireworks soon 
lose their potency and will fail to ignite a few weeks after 
purchase.
Dwarven Toys
The delightful creations of Durin’s folk and their Barding 
apprentices come from the Toy-market of Dale. Made 
from intricately carved wood and metal, the greatest 
(and most expensive) are so cunningly wrought that they 
have properties that seem magical: soldiers that march in 
unison, metal bears with tiny roars and little instruments 
that play themselves have all been sold at the Toy-market.
Travelling Gear
A hero’s travelling gear includes all the typical belongings 
that they carry when travelling, in addition to their 
weapons and armour. Adventurers being a somewhat 
rare breed in Middle-earth, there is little notion of any 
specialised equipment – rather, most Player-heroes 
carry what anyone would when traversing the dangerous 
reaches of the Wild. 
Travelling gear varies by the time of year a company sets 
out. Spring and summer gear consists of lighter clothes 
and cloaks, blankets, water and rations. Winter and 
autumn gear requires warm clothing, thick jackets, fur-
lined cloaks and solid boots with heavier bedrolls along 
with water and rations. 
All classes start with one seasonal set of travelling gear 
of their choice, they will have to purchase other sets as 
needed.
Both sets of travelling gear include rations for a week of 
travelling. If their journey is going to last more than a 
week, most Player-heroes will generally have to rely on 
their skill as hunters.
Spring and Summer Travelling Gear includes 
appropriate garb, backpack, blanket, mess kit, a flask of 
oil, a pouch, 50’ hempen rope, 5 torches, a waterskin and 
a whetstone. With rations, this gear weighs 49 lb. and if 
purchased, would cost around 9s.
 
Autumn and Winter Travelling Gear includes 
appropriate garb, backpack, bedroll, hooded lantern, 
mess kit, a flask of oil, a pouch, 50’ hempen rope, a 
waterskin, and a whetstone. With rations, this gear weighs 
54 lb. and if purchased, would cost around 18s.
Herbs, Potions and Salves
There are numerous plants of great worth in the Wilds of 
Middle-earth if you know where to look for them. A few 
folk know how to make various beneficial remedies from 
such herbs, but only skilled healers know how to bring 
forth their greatest virtues. The most efficacious plants 
are, invariably, the most difficult and dangerous to find 
and thus very often in very short supply. The listed prices 
reflect this. Player-heroes may very well have to go on an 
adventure to be certain of securing such plants.
Athelas
Athelas is a long leafed plant, found only in small, 
sparse thickets where the Men of the West once made 
their dwellings, for they brought it to Middle-earth long 
ago. Athelas has many virtues, but few know them in the 
twilight years of the Third Age. In the south, they refer 
to it as ‘Kingsfoil’ regarding it as a weed known only for 
its sweet scent – like that of pleasant orchards, or fields 
of heather under a summer sun. Those with the proper 
knowledge of Athelas’ many properties can make far more 
use of it.
Applying a salve made from athelas allows a character to 
immediately regain 1d4+1 hit points.
Hagweed
Hagweed is a floating plant, found in ponds of still water 
in verdant carpets of minute green leaves. Deceptively 
harmless to look at, these plants thrive in stinking waters 
where bodies of animals and travellers alike have sunk to 
rot. Hagweed is indeed a serious threat to travellers as, at 
dusk or when the sky is overcast, a horse or pony might 
easily stumble in the deep pools they cover, thinking to 
find firmer terrain. Hagweed owes its name to the fact

--- PAGE 155 ---
155
Equipment
that many stories tell how Marsh Hags and Trolls like to 
lurk beneath the surface of ponds covered by hagweed, as 
corpse candles often appear over such pools of stagnant 
waters and attract the unwary. If collected, the leaves of 
the hagweed can be brewed into a drink that strengthens 
the spirit.
Drinking a hagweed potion gives a character advantage 
on all saving throws against Corruption for 1 week.
Kingcup
These are bright, yellow flowers that appear when the 
winter snows start melting away. They turn dark and 
dreary bogs into pleasant places, and thus may trick 
unwary travellers into entering the dangerous terrain 
they grow upon. It owes its name (“king’s buttons”) to an 
old legend concerning Girion, Lord of Dale. Stories tell 
how he led his armies into the marshes in the dying days 
of winter, to trick his enemies into thinking he deserted 
his folk. He returned in spring, his host reinforced by Elven 
warriors, wearing yellow flowers in his hair and upon his 
breast. Farmers use Kingcup as lucky charms to protect 
their homes, and say that wearing its flowers protects a 
traveller from harm.
Wearing a necklace or bracelet of freshly woven Kingcups 
makes a character lucky for a 1d4+1 days. Whenever a 
lucky character rolls a 1 on a d20 for an attack roll, ability 
check, or saving throw, you can re-roll the die and must 
use the new roll.
Reedmace
Beds of these plants are found especially in the vicinity of 
the Long Lake. Reedmace is a tall grass with long leaves 
that flowers in spring. At that time, its top part develops 
into a mace-like head. Reedmace often grows taller than 
a Man. Farmers harvest reedmace for food, and cook its 
leaves or grind the plant into flour. Wise women learned 
to boil its rootstock to make a salve capable of speeding 
up the healing of wounds.
Applying reedmace salve to wounds allows a character to 
immediately recover 2 Hit Dice. 
Shadow-thorn
Shadow-thorn is a dark black lichen that grows in small 
clumps on trees within the depths of Mirkwood and 
Fangorn Forest. Despite its somewhat sinister appearance, 
shadow-thorn is a beneficial plant that helps draw off 
toxins. Once ground into a fine powder, shadow-thorn 
can be used to make a potion capable of neutralizing 
many poisons.
A character who drinks a shadow-thorn potion gains 
advantage on saving throws against poison for 1 hour. 
Water-lily
A beautiful floating plant with oval leaves and white 
or yellow flowers, the water-lily is found wherever the 
Forest River and the River Running slow their courses in 
winding loops, but it is not encountered under the shade 
of Mirkwood at all. Its flowers open in all their beauty 
only by midday, to close again when evening approaches. 
Water-lilies are often collected as decoration, and placed 
in bowls filled with water or woven into garlands. 
A drink prepared using flowers and petals of white 
water-lilies fortifies the body, while the rare red water-
lily is said to reinforce the fighting spirit.
A character who drinks a potion made from white water-
lilies automatically gets the full Hit Die value of any Hit 
Dice spent to regain hit points during their next short 
rest.
A character who drinks a potion made from red water-
lilies adds +2 damage to all melee weapon attacks made 
for the next hour.
Herbs, Potions and Salves Chart
Item	
Cost 	 Weight
Athelas	
30s 	
- 	
Hagweed 	
40s	
 -
Kingcup 	
30s	
 -
Reedmace 	
20s	
 -
Shadow-thorn 	
25s	
 -
Water lily (Red) 	
3g 	
-
Water lily (White) 	
20s	
 -

--- PAGE 156 ---
156
Adventures in Middle-earth
Tools
Pipe
A pipe is made of clay or wood and used for inhaling the 
smoke of burning leaves of pipe-weed. Proficiency with 
a pipe means you practice the art of smoking and likely 
have some skill at blowing smoke-rings. Smoking a pipe 
can aid in both introspection and friendly chatting with 
fellow practitioners of the art. 
If you spend an hour smoking your pipe while considering 
a problem, you may make an ability check with your 
proficiency bonus against a Difficulty Class 15. On a 
success, you make the immediate follow-on check with 
advantage. On a failure, you wasted an hour, but had a 
good smoke.
For example, Trotter is trying to decipher some strange 
runes he has found carved into the side of a cave. 
The Loremaster declares that because the runes are 
particularly ancient and partially obscured, it will take a 
DC 25 Intelligence (Lore) check to interpret them. Trotter 
has the time, so pulls forth his pipe, smokes and ponders 
for a bit, considering the runes. His player then makes 
a roll, adding his proficiency bonus, against a DC of 15. 
He succeeds, so he gets to make the ensuing Intelligence 
(Lore) test against the DC 25 with advantage.
Pipeweed
Pipe-weed or Leaf, as some adherents refer to it, comes 
mainly from the Shire and the lands surrounding the 
village of Bree. There are various types with slightly varied 
properties. Old Toby and Southern Star are well regarded, 
but most aficionados agree that Longbottom Leaf is the 
finest pipe-weed to be had.
Food, Drink, and Lodging
Item	
         Cost
Ale (Tankard)		
	
	
6c
Feast (per person)	
	
	
10s
Pouch of Pipe-weed (10 uses)	 	
3s
Traveller’s Inn (per night)	
	
75c
Traveller’s Inn, Fancy (per night)	
2s
 
Meals (per day)
Standard of Living	
        Cost
Poor	 	
	
	
	
2c
Frugal 	
	
	
	
5c
Martial 	
	
	
	
8c
Prosperous 	 	
	
	
12c
Rich 		
	
	
	
1s
 
Wine
Item	
         Cost
Glass of Wine	
	
	
9c
Glass of Dorwinion Wine	
	
2s
Wine skin	
	
	
	
50c
Bottle of Dorwinion Wine	
	
10s
Cultural Heirlooms
These items are not for sale at any price – they are treasures 
of the respective Free Folk. Usually, they are awarded to 
Player-heroes who take the Cultural Heirloom virtue (see 
page 100), but they might also, in rare circumstances, be 
found as treasure or awarded as a gift to an honoured 
ally. If lost, they can be replaced at Sanctuaries. See the 
Loremaster's Guide for more information on Sanctuaries.
Bardings
Dalish Longbow (great bow)
The bowyers of Dale used prodigiously tall and powerful 
staves of fine yew wood to make bows for their King’s men.
You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made 
with this weapon. On a critical hit, your arrows inflict an 
additional 1d8 damage.
Spear of King Bladorthin (spear)
The Dwarves of the Lonely Mountain forged these spears for 
a king who lived before the Dragon came. Their thrice-forged 
heads never lose their keenness, and their shafts are inlaid 
with gold.

--- PAGE 157 ---
157
Equipment
You gain advantage on ranged attacks made with one of 
these spears.
The Tower Shields of Dale (great shield)
The soldiers of Girion, the last Lord of Dale before the 
coming of Smaug, carried great shields that were so tall 
that it was said that a grown man could completely hide 
behind them. 
You gain a +2 bonus to AC against ranged attacks while 
you wield this shield. This bonus is in addition to the 
shield’s normal bonus to AC.
Beornings
Giant-slaying Spear (great spear)
A Giant-slaying Spear is an unusually long great spear 
made of ash wood, once used only from horseback.
You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made 
with this weapon. When you hit a Large or bigger monster 
with it, the target takes an extra 2d6 damage.
Noble Armour (leather corslet)
Craftsmen of old long laboured on these coats of leather, 
shaping and decorating them with lacquers and other fine 
ornaments. Those wearing this armour appear regal and 
easily command attention.
Wearing this armour gives you advantage on Charisma 
(Persuasion) ability checks. 
 
Additionally, when wearing this armour, you gain a +1 
bonus to AC in addition to the normal AC bonus for 
wearing a leather corslet. 
Splitting Axe (axe or great axe)
A Beorning Splitting Axe has a wedge-shaped head, 
capable of rending armour with its strokes, a hold-over 
from a time when a Northman needed a weapon capable 
of piercing the skin of a Dragon.
You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with 
this weapon. When you roll a 20 on your attack roll with 
a Splitting Axe, if your opponent is wearing heavy armour 
or has a Natural Armour Class of 16 or better, they take 
an additional 2d6 damage. Individuals wearing Dwarf-
forged heavy armour are immune to this extra damage.
Dúnedain
Heirloom of Elder Days
Prerequisite: You must be at least 8th level to take this 
Cultural Reward.
You have been entrusted with the keeping of an ancient relic, 
an artefact going back to the ancient days of your people. 
You should create an interesting story and description 
for the object with the help of the Loremaster. It will be a 
wondrous artefact generally of Mannish craftsmanship, 
but might even be of Elven or Dwarven make. See the 
Loremaster’s Guide for more on such wonders. 
Star of the Dúnedain
The Dúnedain have opened uncounted paths in the Wild, 
and have created many refuges and encampments. The 
need for secrecy is so vital for their survival that it is a 
command of their captains that no one may reveal the 
whereabouts of these places, nor be taught to decipher 
the signs and runes leading to them, before they have

--- PAGE 158 ---
158
Adventures in Middle-earth
earned their place among the veterans. You have been 
recognised this honour, and you are now entitled to wear 
a silver brooch shaped like a rayed star upon your left 
shoulder. 
When you are within the ancient boundaries of the realm 
of Arnor, you may make a DC 15 Intelligence (Investigation) 
ability check in order to find one of these hidden refuges. 
If successful, the refuge is within two day’s march; on a 
natural 20, it is mere hours away.
The refuges of the Dúnedain are always safe places, but 
their nature varies wildly: a refuge may be nothing more 
than a dry clearing on a hilltop, a shepherd’s hut, a natural 
cave hidden by a waterfall or the ruins of a hill-fort. 
Player-heroes repairing there may find shelter, supplies 
of firewood, stores of dried food, medicinal herbs, and, 
if the place is inhabited, the possibility of exchanging 
tidings with other Dúnedain, or receiving or sending out 
messages.
Resting in a Ranger’s refuge allows each companion to 
immediately recover hit points as if they had spent one 
of their Hit Dice, without expending any from their pool. 
Such places are deemed safe enough to allow for a long 
rest.
Númenórean Arrows 
For many long centuries, the “Men of the Sea” sent cohorts 
of archers to deluge their enemies under a rain of steel. 
Their long, black-feathered arrows can still be discovered 
inside burial mounds, among the tall grass of Eriador or 
where long-forgotten battles were fought across Gondor.
You start each Adventuring phase (see pg. 198) with 
a number of Númenórean Arrows equal to half your 
proficiency bonus (round up). When you attack using a 
great bow, you may declare that you are using one of them. If 
you succeed on your attack roll, the arrow does additional 
damage equal to your Wisdom bonus; moreover, your 
target’s next attack is made with disadvantage.
At the end of the battle you can recover your used arrows 
if circumstances allow it, unless you rolled a 1, in which 
case, that arrow is lost or broken beyond recovery.
Dwarves of the Lonely Mountain
Axe of Azanulbizar (great axe)
It is said that every Dwarf that survived the Battle of 
Azanulbizar returned from that battlefield bowed under 
a heavy burden, as he carried the weapons of those who 
died that day and whose bodies were burned in the pyre.
You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made 
with this weapon. Additionally, the first time you attack 
an Orc or Goblin in any combat, you gain advantage on 
the attack roll.
Dwarf-wrought Hauberk (corslet of mail)
The Dwarves of the Lonely Mountain make good coats of 
steel rings, but they cannot match the work of the armourers 
that lived before the Dragon came. These were frequently 
made suits in Erebor, before the coming of Smaug.
When wearing a Dwarf-wrought Hauberk, you gain a 
+1 bonus to AC in addition to the normal AC bonus for 
wearing mail – for a total of a 17 AC. 
You are also immune to the bonus damage of critical hits 
and do not suffer disadvantage on stealth rolls.
Helm of Awe 
The Dwarven heroes of old wore helms with visors crafted 
by the hammer of the smith in hideous shapes, to better 
dismay the enemy that looked upon them.
While you wear this helm you gain advantage on Charisma 
(Intimidation) ability checks against Orcs and Goblins. 
You can also take an action to call upon an ancestor’s 
wrath to set fear in the hearts of your enemies. A number 
of creatures of your choice, up to your Wisdom modifier 
(minimum 1), within 30 foot of you must succeed at a DC 
15 Wisdom saving throw or become Frightened of you for 
1 minute. While it is frightened in this way, a creature must 
spend its turns trying to move as far away from you as it 
can, and it can’t willingly move to a space within 30 feet 
of you. It also can’t take reactions. For its action, it can use 
only the Dash action or try to escape from an effect that 
prevents it from moving. If it has nowhere it can move, the 
creature can use the Dodge action. At the end of each of 
its turns, a creature can repeat the saving throw, ending 
the effect on itself on a success. This ability cannot be used 
again until you have finished a short or long rest.

--- PAGE 159 ---
159
Equipment
Elves of Mirkwood
Bitter Spear (spear)
These spears were made with ash wood from what is now 
called Dol Guldur, once home to many woodland Elves, 
and they pierce deep into the their enemies.
You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with 
this weapon. When you roll a 20 on your attack roll with 
this spear, your critical hit deals an extra 2d6 damage.
Spearman’s Shield (shield)
The agile Elven warriors learnt long ago to profit from 
the protection of a small shield when using a great spear. 
These leaf-shaped bucklers are smaller than most.
Bearing one of these Elven-wrought shields allows you to 
benefit from the full AC bonus of a standard shield, even 
while wielding a two-handed great spear.
Woodland Bow (short bow)
The Silvan Elves have always eschewed the great bows 
favoured by many folks in the North. They prefer shorter 
and lighter bows that can be bent as quickly as possible, 
as in a forest the enemy can be anywhere. You gain a +1 
bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this weapon. 
So long as you are not surprised, you always get to make a 
single ranged attack with this bow before combat is joined.
Hobbits of the Shire
Bow of the North Downs (short bow)
One of the oldest stories told in the Shire tells how a 
company of the best archers that the Shire could muster 
went north to aid the King in battle. They never returned, 
but a number of very strong bows are said to have been 
recovered from the battlefield and preserved to this day.
When making a ranged attack using a Bow of the North 
Downs, add a bonus to your attack roll of half your 
proficiency bonus (rounded up).
King’s Blade (short sword)
At times, country Hobbits find ancient swords inside fallen 
mounds, amid tilled fields or washed ashore along a 
watercourse. Unable to discover their precise origin, they 
call them simply ‘King’s Blades.’ On a successful attack 
with one of these swords, you get +3 to your damage roll 
against the target.
Lucky Armour (leather corslet)
Suits of armour are very prized ornaments in the houses 
of the greater families of the Shire. The best among them 
can be still put to proper use, if an adventurous Hobbit 
demonstrates they deserve it. When wearing this armour, 
you gain a +1 bonus to AC in addition to the normal AC 
bonus for wearing a leather corslet. You also gain a +1 
bonus to all saving throws. Finally, once per day you can 
call upon its luck (no action required) to re-roll one attack 
roll, ability check, or saving throw you dislike. You must 
use the result of the re-roll. This ability returns when you 
take a long rest.
Men of Bree 
Gatekeeper’s Lantern
A number of very ancient metal lanterns are kept in 
working order by the gatekeepers of Bree. Shaped like

--- PAGE 160 ---
160
Adventures in Middle-earth
some curious shellfish, their craftsmanship is long lost, as 
is the cunning art that makes their light particularly bright 
and enduring. The nature of apparently ever-lasting liquid 
fuel they use is a secret that the gatekeepers guard jealously. 
If you wield a Gatekeeper’s Lantern in combat while in the 
dark, all creatures that fear the sun (like many types of 
Orcs, Goblins and Trolls) who are exposed to the lantern’s 
light suffer Disadvantage in the first round of combat. 
Pipe of the Prancing Pony
The sign of a worthy hero of Bree-land, the black clay pipes 
of The Prancing Pony are deemed to be authentic relics by 
the Men of Bree, as their manufacture hearkens back to 
the time when the art of smoking the genuine weed first 
spread out of Bree. Recognisable by their long stem and 
large firebox, smoking a pipe of The Prancing Pony is said 
to give great powers of contemplation. You have advantage 
on all Riddle skill checks tests made while you are smoking. 
Furthermore, you may use your Charisma instead of your 
Intelligence when using the Riddle and Traditions skills. 
Shield of the First Men (shield)
These large, brightly painted tall shields are handed down 
as heirlooms from one generation to the next, in a tradition 
that the elders of Bree-land say stretches back to the first 
Men to cross the Mountains and settle in these lands east 
of the Sea. Old tales say that a man carrying such a shield 
in the thick of a fight should fear nothing. When you roll a 
20 on an attack roll while fighting with this shield in hand, 
instead of applying the critical hit effects to your foe, you 
may choose instead to automatically block the next attack 
that would’ve otherwise successfully struck you during this 
fight. No matter what your attacker rolls, treat it as though 
they failed to roll enough to hit your Armour Class.
Men of the Lake
Brazen Armour (scale hauberk)
Men-folk out of the East favour suits of armour made of 
overlapping brass plates, or composed of small scales 
arranged in a mesh, like the scales on a fish or the 
feathers of birds. Many of these elaborate coats have 
been hanging on the walls of the great hall of Lake-town, 
waiting for heroes worthy to wear them. Brazen Armour is 
equivalent to +1 scale hauberk. Its wearer has resistance 
to bludgeoning and slashing damage, but is vulnerable 
to piercing damage.
Keening Bog-stone 
Among the most unusual and rare possessions of a 
Lakeman household are these unassuming whetstones, 
small flat pebbles never bigger than a pigeon egg, black 
in colour and faintly traced with green veins. They can be 
obtained from the oldest and most superstitious fishermen 
of the town, who swear they get them in exchange for iron 
tool offerings left in certain areas of the Long Marshes.
If you carry a Keening Bog-stone in a pouch or wear it 
as a necklace, it vibrates and emits a soft wailing sound 
when a creature possessing the Hate Sunlight or Denizen 
of the Dark Shadow Abilities is close (within 100 yards). 
Additionally, the first attack you aim at such a creature 
has advantage.
Serpent Scimitar (scimitar)
Exotic blades from the distant South are the most sought 
after collector’s items among the more fashionable 
merchants of Lake-town. Most of those that find their way 
to the North are useless ceremonial blades of cheaply 
damasked iron, with lacquered hilts and scabbards set 
with coloured stones. A rare few are the work of truly 
superior craftsmanship, quick and deadly weapons in the 
hand of a skilled fighter. These scimitars give a +1 bonus 
to attack and damage rolls, and attacks made with these 
scimitars ignore Armour Class modifiers derived from 
shields.
Men of Minas Tirith
Banner of the House of Anárion
The banners of Minas Tirith are the symbols of all that is 
good and glorious, fluttering high in the western winds 
of Gondor. They are a sight of inspiration to all who see 
them and drive those who fight beneath them to acts of 
valour and heroism on the field of battle. Once per battle, 
you may unfurl this banner as a bonus action. All nearby 
allies may spend up to three Hit Dice to recover Hit Points. 
Shield of the Citadel (shield, great shield)
The armourers of the Tower of Guard know how to make 
excellent shields, many-layered and overlaid with plates 
of metal. Emblazoned with the device of the Citadel, they 
are sturdy, but light and wieldy, to better deflect the blows 
of the enemy.

--- PAGE 161 ---
161
Equipment
You gain a +1 bonus to AC when you wield this shield. This 
bonus is in addition to the shield’s normal bonus to AC. 
In addition, a Shield of the Citadel cannot be destroyed by 
mischance or the attacks of enemies.
Horn of Minas Arnor
When Minas Tirith was still called Minas Anor, the Tower 
of the Sun, it was a fair City, high and full of light, deemed 
to be as beautiful as a queen. Horns and trumpets were 
sounded to signal joyous occasions, like marriages and 
feasts, not only to announce new forays into enemy 
territory. Horns that were crafted in those merrier 
days still hold that bright quality in their sound, and 
there is nothing more hateful to the ears of the Enemy. 
If you sound this magnificent horn as an action, a 
number of foes equal to your Charisma modifier must 
make a Wisdom saving throw (DC8 + your proficiency 
bonus + your Charisma modifier). Those who fail gain 
disadvantage on their next attack.  
Riders of Rohan
Ancient Mail from Gondor (corslet of mail)
Many armouries in Rohan hold a vast array of weapons, 
helms and suits of armour created by smiths from the 
south, gifts from Gondor to the Kings of the Riddermark. 
A warrior wearing one of those coats of bright mail on the 
battlefield is sure to lift the hearts of his companions. 
When wearing this armour, you gain a +1 bonus to AC 
in addition to the normal AC bonus for wearing mail. 
Wearing Ancient Mail from Gondor allows you to perform 
a special version of the Help action to assist your comrades 
in arms. You may cheer your allies on as a bonus action 
– all of your allies within 10 feet that can see you gain 
advantage on their next combat attack roll – you may still 
attack normally. You must take a short or long rest before 
you can use this ability again.
Glinting Spear (spear)
The Rohirrim wield tall spears of ash, topped with sharp 
heads of cold steel. Some have been brought out of the 
North by those riders who first followed Eorl, their hafts 
cut from the trees of the ancient Greenwood. Glinting 
spears give a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made 
with such weapons. On a successful attack in the first 
round of melee combat, a Glinting Spear does +3 damage.
Horsetailed Helm
The most valiant warriors of the Rohirrim wear gleaming 
helms crested with great plumes made from horse hair 
that make them stand out in the battlefield. You have 
been recognised with the honour to wear one in battle, 
and you have sworn to never retreat from the fray and 
lead your companions by example. Wearing this helm 
gives you a +1 bonus to your Armour Class. Additionally, 
while wearing a Horsetailed Helm, you are immune to the 
frightened condition. 
Woodmen of Wilderland
Bearded Axe (great axe)
The most prized axes have a wide ‘bearded’ head, often 
scored with ancient runes of victory. The longer blade 
bites into enemies’ shields, and its hooked end can be 
used to disarm them.
You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with 
this weapon. When you attack with this great axe and roll 
a 20 on the attack roll, instead of inflicting damage, you 
may choose to destroy your opponent’s shield instead.
Feathered Armour (leather corslet or chain shirt)
Radagast the Brown has blessed these suits of armour 
with his cunning, and now they don’t seem to make a 
sound when worn, whether they are made from animal 
skins or rings of steel. When wearing this armour, you 
gain a +1 bonus to AC in addition to the normal AC bonus 
for wearing that type of armour. 
 
Additionally, when wearing this armour, you have 
advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) ability checks when 
moving through forested areas.
Shepherds-bow (bow or great bow)
When a bow of any type is deemed very powerful, the 
Woodmen of Wilderland treasure it and call it a “Shepherds-
bow”, as they would use it to protect their herds and cattle 
from the preying claws of the Eagles of the Misty Mountains. 
You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with 
this weapon. When you roll a 20 on the attack roll with this 
weapon, in addition to the standard extra damage caused 
by a critical hit, your arrow does extra additional damage 
equal to your Wisdom modifier.

--- PAGE 162 ---
Dearest Bilbo,
 
With your writings as my inspiration I have taken to the road. My 
days have been long, and my nights longer, and such hardships I have 
endured! But I am glad I came here to this wild country so far from 
The Shire. Something Tookish has awoken within me, and I feel quite 
sure I am in love with the travelling life.   
 
Where once my favourite companions were the warm hearth and a 
mug of ale, these days I am firmer friends with my walking stick, 
my thick cloak and my travel kettle. I think of all the long miles 
behind me, and thank you yet again for having allowed me to read 
your notes. I am not sure what they would think of me now in the 
Westfarthing. And I am not sure I care. 
 
I will write to you again when I reach Lake-town.
 
Yours in good spirits,
 
Celandine Took
Journeys

--- PAGE 164 ---
164
Adventures in Middle-earth
- Journeys -
There were many paths that led up into those 
mountains, and many passes over them. But 
most of the paths were cheats and deceptions 
and led nowhere or to bad ends…
A company will often roam across Wilderland and beyond 
during the course of their adventures. But travelling is not 
simply a means of getting to a destination, nor something 
to be undertaken lightly. A great part of the life of a hero is 
spent on the road. Often, what distinguishes an adventurer 
from a common villager is the skills they possess to help 
them survive while on a journey.
Travelling shows a hero the world outside the boundaries 
of their native lands, and lets them seek out and confront 
threats to their people. In short, a journey in Adventures 
in Middle-earth is synonymous with adventuring.
The Loremaster knows where an adventure starts and 
likely has an idea where it may go, but the companions 
have to reach that destination by crossing the Wild. Heroes 
make various ability checks along the way, to deal with 
the various perils that may occur, as well as to determine 
how the rigours of travel may have affected them when 
they face their next challenge.
 
Once a company decides to undertake a significant 
journey from one place to another, the journey rules 
outlined in this chapter should be used.  A Loremaster may 
decide that a journey is either short enough, or familiar 
enough, that the journey rules need not be used, and they 
can happily be ignored to serve the pace of the game. 
 
The journey rules break down a journey into three distinct 
stages, each one influencing the one that follows it in some 
way. The first stage represents the company embarking 
on the journey: plans are made, supplies gathered, maps 
studied and routes agreed upon. The company decides 
between them who will undertake which tasks on the road. 
But there is more to this stage than simply preparations. It 
also represents the company’s ability to stay to the course, 
to keep their spirits high and may take into account the 
fickle nature of weather. In broad strokes, it gives a feeling 
of the overall tone of the journey from its outset. It may be 
influenced to a greater or lesser degree by the attentions 
of the Enemy.
The second stage represents events arising, and the tasks 
carried out by members of the company during the course 
of the main part of the journey. Depending on the length 
of the journey, the company will make one or more rolls 
that represent the challenges or opportunities that they 
find placed in their way. These rolls will determine both 
the nature and the magnitude of the encounters they will 
face and may require several of the company to work 
together to overcome any challenges
The third stage of the journey is representative of the 
company’s arrival at its destination. The Guide makes 
a roll, often modified by the outcomes of the tasks 
undertaken by other members of the company during the 
main part of the journey. 
The result of this final roll will determine whether the 
company arrive in high spirits, full of tales of bold deeds, 
beautiful sunsets and delicious meals cooked over open 
fires, or if they trudge the final miles, footsore and dispirited, 
backs bent under the weight of packs, silently brooding 
upon empty bellies, wrong turns and poor choices.
 
 
Journey Rules Summary
• 
Players assign tasks and plan route.
• 
Loremaster determines Peril Rating of the journey.
• 
The Guide makes an Embarkation Roll: 1D12 
modified by the Guide’s Survival proficiency 
bonus plus half their Wisdom bonus minus the 
Peril Rating.
• 
The Loremaster either relays the result, or 
optionally hints at it.
• 
Determine the number of Journey Events.
• 
Events are created by rolling a d12, potentially 
modified by the Embarkation result.
• 
Events are played through, noting down the result 
for reference.
• 
The Arrival roll (d8) is made, and results are 
applied.

--- PAGE 165 ---
165
Journeys
Step One: Embarkation 
When the players have decided on a destination, they 
need to choose the best route to get there. Using the 
Player’s Map, they indicate the general route that they 
intend to follow, and the Loremaster consults the hexed 
Loremaster’s Map to determine the Peril Rating of the 
journey.
 
The difficulty and danger of the journey is based on its 
length, on the area and terrain traversed, and on the 
season in which the journey is taking place (journeys in 
the cold months of the year are more strenuous than those 
in the warm ones).  Middle-earth is a perilous place, so the 
shortest route may not always be the safest. The company 
must choose wisely what paths to follow.
While the Loremaster consults the Loremaster’s Map, 
players assign their Player-heroes a task for the journey, 
roughly summarising what they will be doing for the 
length of the trip.
 
An experienced company differs from a novice group of 
adventurers in the capability of its members to collaborate 
effectively. When they are travelling, the companions 
usually divide up some of the duties according to ability.
 
The tasks divided between the company are as follows:
 
Guide - In charge of all decisions concerning route, 
rest, and supplies. Guides rely on Wisdom and Survival 
proficiency.
 
Scout - In charge of setting up camp, opening new trails. 
Scouts rely on Stealth and Investigation.
 
Hunter - In charge of finding food in the wild. Hunters 
rely on success with Survival checks.
 
Look-out - In charge of keeping watch. Look-outs rely on 
their abilities in Perception.
With the exception of the company’s Guide, more than 
one Player-hero may be assigned the same task (in other 
words, there may be more than one character acting as 
Look-outs, or more heroes going hunting regularly), but 
normally no character may assume more than one role at 
the same time (posing as the group’s Hunter AND Scout, 
for example). If there’s more than one person assigned to 
a task then nominate a lead Scout, Hunter or Look-out. 
That character is the one who makes the test and gains 
advantage from the assistance of the other Player-heroes 
performing the Help action on that task.
If a task goes unfilled, any relevant tests for that task 
which come up are taken at a disadvantage.
 
Determining the Peril Rating of a Journey
The Loremaster should consult the Loremaster’s Map 
to determine the difficulty of the terrain through which 
the journey passes. Whichever type of terrain forms the 
majority of hexes passed through by the proposed route 
determines the overall terrain type:
Easy Terrain: 1
Mild/familiar terrain, extensively mapped with well 
travelled roads and/or frequent settlements.

--- PAGE 166 ---
166
Adventures in Middle-earth
Moderate Terrain: 2
Areas that the company may have some knowledge of, 
that they may have travelled through once or twice. Broken 
terrain, scattered paths and trails.
Hard terrain: 3
Unfamiliar areas, deep forest, trackless wilderness.
Severe Terrain: 4
High Mountains and treacherous swamps.
Daunting Terrain: 5
Areas tainted by the Shadow. Angmar, Mordor, Southern 
Mirkwood.
Increase level of terrain by one when traveling in winter 
conditions to a maximum of 5.
Optionally, the Loremaster does not have to inform the 
players of the Peril Rating of their journey and thus keeps 
the final outcome of the Embarkation roll secret from 
them, instead paraphrasing to perhaps give some hints of 
what may lie ahead of them on their Journey. 
 
Once the route is decided upon, and the Loremaster has 
determined the Peril rating of the journey, the Guide must 
make an Embarkation roll using a single d12. This roll is 
modified as follows: the Guide’s Survival proficiency bonus 
plus half their Wisdom bonus, minus the Peril Rating of the 
journey, as determined by the Loremaster. The result of the 
roll is used on the Embarkation Table opposite. The Guide 
should make a note of both the numbered result and its 
effects.  The result may be referred to during the following 
parts of the journey.
Ponies and Boats
When travelling, companions may ease their toil by 
bringing ponies to carry their burdens, or may journey 
on boats when along a river, lake or sea. If the company 
travels aboard boats or is equipped with ponies for the 
greater part of their journey, ignore the first level of 
exhaustion incurred while on the Journey. 
Companions looking for such assistance must start 
their journey in a settlement of the Free Peoples. 
Additionally, the adventurers must be able to afford 
the expense.
Note that there are many places in Wilderland 
where ponies (and horses) are unwilling to venture. 
This includes the Forest of Mirkwood, the Misty 
Mountains and the Grey Mountains. Reluctant 
animals can be coaxed over a mountain pass with a 
Wisdom (Animal Handling) test against a DC 15 in 
Summer and Autumn, DC 20 in Spring, and DC 25 in 
Winter. Nothing can get a horse or pony deep beneath 
the eaves of Mirkwood.

--- PAGE 167 ---
167
Journeys
1. (or less) Dark Signs and Evil Portents
The company’s path is likely to lead them through places 
both ancient and terrible. Modify all rolls on the Journey 
Event tables by +2 and the proficiency check to determine the 
initial outcomes of these encounters should be made with 
disadvantage. Additionally, each character receives 1 point of 
Shadow as they set out upon this journey.
2. A Fell and Foreboding Start
The company sets out under a pall of doom. A sense of 
foreboding and oppressive menace seems to loom at every 
turn and misfortune appears to dog their steps. Tasks seem 
harder, and will remain so until the feeling of doom can be 
shaken off. As a result, each character receives 1 point of 
Shadow and all rolls taken during Journey Events are made 
with disadvantage until a roll is successfully made, at which 
point the dark mood will lift.
3. The Keen Eyes of the Enemy 
The company has the misfortune to have chosen a path 
upon which fell creatures and evil men are more likely to be 
encountered. Depending upon their stature among the Free 
Peoples of Middle-earth, it is possible that they have come to 
the attention of agents of the Enemy. 
As a result, they will need to work hard to avoid encountering 
those who would wish to do them harm: a brooding feeling of 
danger seems to pervade their senses throughout the journey, 
as if unseen eyes watch them at every turn. Modify all results 
on the Journey Events tables by +1 and the first roll made 
during these encounters should be made with disadvantage.
4. The Wearisome Toil of Many Leagues 
The company finds that the maps that they consulted were 
poor, inaccurate or out of date, or that the path they find 
themselves upon is beset with obstacles, dead ends and 
difficult terrain making the going harder than it should be. 
Throughout the journey, terrain types are classed as one 
grade harder to traverse.
5. Foul Weather
The rain falls constantly, the wind chills to the bone, the sun 
beats down unrelentingly, frost numbs toes and fingers. Rest 
is hard to find, sleep is elusive and every mile walked feels 
like three. As a result, each member of the company suffers 
one additional level of exhaustion.
6. Meagre Supplies and Poor Meals 
Whether as a result of unfortunate mishaps during cooking, 
a scarcity of game, a blunder when picking mushrooms or a 
need for haste leading to the company simply eating what 
scraps they have while on the move, the meals eaten during 
this journey have a tendency to be, by turns, undercooked, 
infrequent, burned, tasteless or just foul. As a result, all 
members of the company receive a -1 on all skill checks made 
throughout the journey.
7. Feasts Fit for the Kings of Ancient Times
Perhaps game is plentiful, herbs, mushrooms and root 
vegetables seem to spring up out of nowhere along the 
company’s path, or the cook brought exactly the correct 
amount of salt and pepper. For whatever reason, the 
company’s meals during this journey are a thing to be 
anticipated with joy, and to be remembered for days after. 
Accordingly, all members of the company receive a +1 bonus 
to all skill checks made during this journey.
8. Fine Weather
Each morning brings a beautiful sunrise that raises spirits 
and fills all who see it with hope for the day ahead, when 
rain falls it is cooling and soothing to a weary traveller, the 
wind seems to be no more than a light breeze and snow or 
frost sparkle beneath clear, bright skies, creating majestic and 
breath taking vistas. As a result, each member of the company 
may ignore the first exhaustion point that they accrue during 
this journey.
9. Paths Both Swift and True
Whether as a result of consulting good quality maps, referring 
to the knowledge of local travellers or simply due to an innate 
knack for finding the easiest path, the Guide has planned a 
route that will allow the company to travel swiftly and directly 
to its destination. Throughout this journey, all terrain types 
are considered to be one grade easier to traverse
10. Hidden from the Shadow
Though agents of the Shadow roam far and wide, and 
dangers may be found anywhere in Middle-earth, the Guide 
has wisely chosen a path that will conceal the company from 
the attentions of all but the most determined and alert of 
foes. In addition, the company seems more aware of their 
own surroundings and will likely spy out both trouble and 
opportunities upon their path. As a result, modify all results 
 Embarkation Table

--- PAGE 168 ---
168
Adventures in Middle-earth
on the Journey Event table by +1 and the first roll during each 
encounter may be made with advantage.
11. With Hopeful Hearts and Clear Purpose
The company embarks with light hearts and a sense of hope. 
They are resolute and determined to cleave to their path, 
regardless of hardship or setback. Accordingly, each member 
of the company has advantage until the first time they fail a 
ability check during this journey.
12. (or more) From Auspicious Beginnings
The company sets out upon a path that will likely show them 
wonders long since forgotten or into dangers that most would 
quail at the thought of. But the auspices are good, and should 
the company be true, they will surely prevail. 
As a result, add 2 to the rolls on the Journey Events Table. 
Additionally rolls made to determine the initial outcome of 
these encounters should be made with Advantage.
Step Two: Journey Events 
and Task Rolls
 
‘What’s the matter?’ asked Merry. ‘Are you lying on an 
ant-hill?’ ‘No,’ said Pippin, ‘but I’m not comfortable. 
I wonder how long it is since I slept in a bed?’ Merry 
yawned. 
During the journey, members of the company may be 
called upon to use their wit and talents to ensure that the 
journey does not fall to ruin. 
There are times when a single member of the company 
may have to overcome a challenge alone whereas at other 
times several companions may need to work together to 
be successful.
On a short journey, the company will typically be faced 
with 1-2 events, on a medium journey, 2-3 and on a long 
journey 3-5. The number of events is influenced by the 
Peril Rating of the journey, with more dangerous journeys 
leading to a higher number of challenges.
The number of challenges to be faced is determined as 
follows:
• 
Short Journey (1-15 hexes on the Loremaster’s Map): 
1d2 for number of challenges.
• 
Medium Journey (16-40 hexes on the Loremaster’s 
Map): 1d2+1 for number of challenges.
• 
Long Journey (41+ hexes on the Loremaster’s Map): 
1d3+2 for number of challenges.
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
 
Note that Long Journeys are extremely hazardous to 
low to mid level Player-heroes, and likely to put Player-
heroes in extreme danger.  A wiser company will break 
their journey into shorter, more manageable legs, with 
long rests at safe places in between.
 
Journeys through predominantly Easy terrain result in a 
-1 modifier to this roll, to a minimum of 1.

--- PAGE 169 ---
169
Journeys
Journeys through predominantly Hard or Severe terrain 
result in a +1 modifier to this roll.
Journeys through predominantly Daunting Terrain result 
in a +2 modifier to this roll.
The Loremaster should make this roll in secret and should 
not disclose to the players the number of challenges they 
will face.
The following table gives a range of possible events. 
The lower numbers represent minor events whilst the 
higher numbers indicate some important or momentous 
occurrence. 
In all cases, the DC of checks made during a journey 
is determined by adding the Peril Rating of the 
journey to a base of 12. 
Therefore, on a journey with a Peril Rating of 3 (unfamiliar 
areas, deep forest and so on) the DC of all checks would 
be (12+3) 15, whilst on a journey through Angmar in the 
depths of winter, all DCs would be (12+5+1) for a total of 18.
 
To determine what happens in each event of the journey, 
the Loremaster rolls a single 12 sided dice. The result may 
be modified by the Embarkation roll, or previous events 
on this or prior journeys. The Loremaster consults the 
following chart, and narrates the event to the company.
1. (or less) A Chance Encounter
The company meet a fellow traveller or a group of travellers. 
Perhaps a band of dwarves, Mannish merchants out of Lake-
town or Dale or Woodmen hunting their supper. The Scout may 
either make a Dexterity (Stealth) ability check to lead the company 
past the travellers undetected if the company wish to avoid 
them or any member of the company may attempt a Charisma 
(Persuasion) ability check if they choose to interact with them.
 
If the Persuade check is successful the company may choose 
to gain some snippets of information concerning the path 
ahead of them, in which case the first roll of their next travel 
event is made with advantage.
 
If the Persuade check is unsuccessful, the company has made 
a poor impression on the travellers and the information they 
receive is inaccurate or misleading, resulting in the first roll 
of the next event being made with disadvantage.
2. Of Herbs and Stewed Rabbit 
The company finds signs of easily foraged food or useful 
herbs at a fortuitous moment, perhaps as their own supplies 
are running low. The Hunter must make a Wisdom (Survival) 
check in an attempt to take advantage of this. 
 
If successful, they may choose to either gather food (in which 
case they may prepare a meal which will restore 1 exhaustion 
level or 1 Hit Die to each member of the company) or they 
may collect herbs (Selected by the LM). If they fail this roll, the 
Guide’s Arrival roll will incur a -1 penalty.
The roll made during this task is subject to disadvantage/
advantage if the Guide’s Embarkation roll was either 6 
(Meagre Supplies and Poor Meals) or 7 (Feasts fit for the Kings 
of ancient times).
3. An Obstacle
Fallen trees, a fast flowing river, a rockslide, or a fallen bridge 
block the path ahead. The company must work together to 
clear their path. The Guide must make a Wisdom (Survival) 
ability check and each of the other company members must 
make their choice of Wisdom (Survival) or Strength (Athletics) 
ability check.. 
If the company has horses or ponies, one of the company 
must instead make a Wisdom (Animal Handling) check. All 
these checks are subject to disadvantage/advantage if the 
Guide’s Embarkation roll was either 4 or 9.
If all of the checks are successful, the company has worked 
well together, clearing the route and feeling a sense of 
satisfaction from their unity. As a result, the Guide’s Arrival 
roll will benefit from a +1 modifier. 
If half or more of the checks are successful, the route is cleared 
with some difficulty and no bonus or penalty is incurred. 
 
If less than half of the rolls are successful, but not all fail, the 
company has struggled to overcome the obstacle and each of 
them gains a point of exhaustion.
Journey Events Table

--- PAGE 170 ---
170
Adventures in Middle-earth
If all the rolls fail, the company is forced to backtrack to bypass 
the obstacle. Each of them suffers a level of exhaustion and 
the Guide’s Arrival roll is subject to a -1 penalty.
4. In Need of Help
The company discover a band of travellers who have suffered 
some misfortune, or a small settlement beset by woes. The 
company may choose to help them, or not. 
 
If they choose not to, they must make a Wisdom Save to avoid 
gaining a point of Shadow. 
 
If, instead, they choose to help, the company must make 
three checks, chosen by the Loremaster, to reflect them aiding 
the innocent souls.
 
Each check must be made by a different character (unless 
there are fewer than 3 Player-heroes in the company) and 
will typically be selected from: Survival, Traditions, Insight, 
Persuade, Animal Handling, Medicine or Nature. 
 
It is possible that the same skill may be called upon more 
than once, in which case it must be attempted by two different 
Player-heroes. 
If all of the checks are successful, each member of the company 
gains Inspiration. Additionally, the company will receive a +1 
bonus to the Guide’s roll upon arrival at their destination.
 
If half or more of the rolls are successful, the company may 
select one of its number to gain Inspiration and the company 
receives a +1 bonus to the Guide’s Arrival roll. 
 
If 1 of the rolls is successful, the company receives a +1 bonus 
to the Guide’s Arrival roll.
 
If all the rolls fail, the company is slightly despondent and 
receives a -1 modifier to the Guide’s Arrival roll.
5. Agents of the Enemy	
Hostile scouts or hunters cross the company’s path, this may 
even be a sharp eyed Crebain, gathering news for the Enemy.
 
The Look-out must make a Wisdom (Perception) check to spot 
the enemy before they become aware of the company.
 
If successful, the company has seized the initiative and may 
decide how to proceed. They may either sneak past the hostile 
force or ambush them, in which case they benefit from a 
round of surprise. 
 
If the Look-out’s Perception roll fails, the hostile scouts set an 
ambush and they benefit from a round of surprise.
 
If combat ensues, the Loremaster may resolve it as normal, 
setting out the combat abilities of the small enemy party to 
give a small to moderate challenge to the company. 
 
All rolls made outside of combat during this task are subject 
to disadvantage/advantage if the Guide’s Embarkation roll 
was either 3 or 10.
6. The Wonders of Middle-earth
The company finds itself presented with a spectacular vista. 
A sunset, a forest glade, a mountain range. Each member 
of the company must make a Wisdom check or Intelligence 
(Investigation) check (their choice). 
If successful, they see the beauty of the scene and feel invigorated, 
recovering from 1 level of exhaustion. 
If unsuccessful, they instead see brooding clouds, hard paths 
yet to be walked or steep  and daunting hills to be climbed 
and suffer a level of exhaustion. 
If all members of the company are successful, they receive a 
+1 bonus to the Guide’s Arrival roll. 
If all fail, the Guide’s Arrival roll incurs a -1 penalty. 
Rolls made for this task are subject to disadvantage/
advantage if the Guide’s Embarkation roll was either 5 or 8.
7. A Hunt
The Hunter sees signs or tracks left by some game that would 
likely prove a far better meal than their travelling rations, 
perhaps at a point in the journey where the company’s 
supplies are running low, or when their spirits seem to be 
flagging. 
The Hunter must make a Wisdom (Survival) ability check to 
hunt down this game. 
If the roll is successfully made by 5 or more, the prey is 
brought down and a great feast is had, restoring 1 level of 
exhaustion  and giving a +1 bonus to the Guide’s Arrival roll.

--- PAGE 171 ---
171
Journeys
If the roll is successful, the company enjoy a hearty meal and 
each may remove 1 level of exhaustion.
 
If the roll fails, the hunt was unsuccessful and the company 
spend a hungry night, resulting in each gaining a level of 
exhaustion.
 
If the Hunter fails their roll by 5 or more, the hunt was a 
disaster, pulling the company off course and leaving them 
with nothing to show for their efforts but sore feet and 
growling bellies. As a result, each gains a point of exhaustion 
and the Guide’s arrival roll becomes subject to a -1 penalty.  
The roll made during this task is subject to disadvantage/
advantage if the Guide’s Embarkation roll was either 6 or 
7.
8. A Fine Spot for a Camp
The Scout has spotted a location that has the potential to be 
a safe and comfortable place to make camp. Perhaps it is a 
sheltered glade, close to a fresh water stream, or it may be 
an existing campsite, used by travellers, already stocked with 
firewood and canvas to fashion shelters from the elements. It 
may even be an ancient building, easily defensible, allowing 
the company to rest a little easier on their journey. The Scout 
must make an Investigation check as the company draw close 
to the site. 
 
If the roll succeeds by 5 or more the camp site is all the 
company could have hoped for, and they may benefit from 
a long rest in addition to recovering a level of exhaustion. As 
an added bonus, the Guide will receive a +1 modifier to their 
Arrival roll. 
 
If the roll is simply successful, the company has an 
undisturbed night, and if needed each may recover a level of 
exhaustion.
 
If the roll fails, the campsite proves to be less than it might 
have been. The company spend a restless night, beset by 
feelings that they are being watched perhaps, or discovering 
that the spot they have chosen is rocky and uncomfortable 
or prone to flooding. They awake weary and dispirited and 
suffering from a level of exhaustion. 
 
If the roll failed by 5 or more, the camp is already occupied by 
something hostile and dangerous; a Troll, sheltering from the 
sun, an Orcish war party, a band of Evil Men, intent on dark 
deeds, perhaps even a bear, seeking only to rest up for winter, 
becoming enraged upon being disturbed. Whatever the nature 
of the threat, the company have blundered into its midst and 
combat will surely ensue.
 
Regardless of the result of the combat, assuming the 
company survives, the night is a poor one at best and the 
only memories they carry with them of the camp are those of 
hard knocks and a final, unfulfilling rest. In addition to any 
damage sustained the Guide’s Arrival roll is subject to a -1 
modifier.
9. A Lingering Memory of Times Long Past
The company discovers a relic of past ages. A statue, a 
building, the remains of an ancient settlement, perhaps even 
some finely wrought trinket half-buried in the earth. It is 
even possible that they witness a travelling company of Elves, 
making their way towards the Grey Havens. 
With good fortune and a light heart, the company will be 
uplifted by this sight, sensing something hopeful for the 
future in this glimpse into the past.  With poor fortune, the 
company will be filled with a sense of doom, seeing the decay 
of lost glory and the end of hope. 
 
Each member of the company should make a Wisdom check. 
If successful, they are filled with Hope regarding their journey 
and their struggles against the Shadow and gains Inspiration.
 
If they make the roll by 5 or more they are so positively affected 
by the sight that they may also remove a level of exhaustion. 
Additionally, if at least half of the company is successful, a +1 
modifier may be applied to the Guide’s Arrival roll. 
 
With a failed roll, they see only the fleeting nature of life and 
the fall of all that is good, and must make a Corruption check 
to avoid gaining 2 points of Shadow. 
 
If they fail the roll by 5 or more, they feel morose and wearied 
by the scene and suffer a level of exhaustion in addition to 
the Shadow points. Additionally, if more than half of the 
company fail (since we’re talking about individual rolls) their 
roll, a -1 modifier must be applied to the Guide’s Arrival roll.
10. A Place Touched by the Shadow
The essence of something dark and terrible lingers here. It 
may be the site of some ancient battle, haunted still by the 
shades of the fallen, it may be a place where the Necromancer

--- PAGE 172 ---
172
Adventures in Middle-earth
worked foul magics, long ago, or a ruin that was once home 
to some great servant of the Enemy. In Middle-earth, places 
have memories, and not all the memories are pleasant. That 
said, even the darkest of Shadows may hide something bright 
and good. 
 
The Scout must make an Intelligence (Investigation) check to 
become aware of the darkness surrounding this area before 
the company blunders too deeply into it.
 
If the roll is a success by 5 or more, the company witness 
some sign that reaffirms their hope in the struggle against 
the Enemy. Perhaps they see evidence of the downfall of 
whatever evil thing once lived here, perhaps bright sunlight 
bursts through brooding clouds to bathe the darkened place 
in bright light, lifting the spirits of all who witness it. 
Whatever the reason, each member of the company may 
remove one point of Shadow and gain Inspiration. Additionally, 
the Guide will receive a +1 bonus to their Arrival roll.
 
On a successful roll, they manage to avoid the pervasive sense 
of corruption that lingers here and may count themselves 
lucky. Accordingly, the Guide receives a +1 bonus to their 
Arrival roll.
If the Scout fails their roll, the company has wandered into 
the heart of the area and feels the dark nature of the place 
touch their hearts. Each hero must make a Corruption check 
to avoid gaining a point of Shadow. 
If the Scout’s roll fails by 5 or more, some dark thing still lurks 
here, ancient and evil, and the company have disturbed its 
slumber…
11. The Enemy is Abroad
Evil men, Orcs, Goblins or other servants of the Enemy are 
moving through the area. Avoiding them will be challenging. 
If the Guide's result on the Embarkation roll was a 3, a 
confrontation is unavoidable.
In spite of this, a successful Wisdom (Perception) ability check 
roll from the Look-out will allow the company time to prepare 
and will grant them a round of surprise in the combat.
A failed Perception roll in this instance will indicate that the 
company has little time to prepare and receives no such bonus.
 
If the Guide received a 10 on the Embarkation roll, the Look-
out may make a Wisdom (Perception) or Dexterity (Stealth) 
ability check (player’s choice) to allow the company to find a 
path that will bypass the enemy force unnoticed.

--- PAGE 173 ---
173
Journeys
Should this roll fail, the company will still have time to 
establish an ambush, and as such will benefit from a round 
of surprise.
Should the Embarkation roll have been neither 3 or 10, the 
company may attempt to sneak past the hostile force. This will 
require a successful Dexterity (Stealth) check from each of them, 
with a single successful Animal Handling roll from one of the 
company should they have horses or pack ponies.
 
If any of these rolls fails, they have been spotted and battle 
will swiftly follow, with no advantage to either side. The 
Loremaster should make the combat reasonably challenging, 
without allowing it to dominate the entire session.  
12. (or more) Many Meetings? Fly you Fools!
The company has encountered a traveller upon the road, 
but all may not be as it at first appears. This is no ordinary 
wanderer, but rather is one of the great and good (or fell) of 
Middle-earth. This will be a significant encounter not soon 
forgotten. Whether the meeting is for good or ill, for attaining 
this result the Loremaster may well choose to reward the 
company with Experience Points suited to the method they 
are using in their game.
The traveller may be Gandalf or Radagast, wandering the 
lands and appearing, at first glance, to be little more than 
a ragged wastrel. Or perhaps one of the sons of Elrond, 
Elladan or Elrohir, travelling to or from Imladris. It may 
be Beorn or Legolas, roaming the deep, wild forests or the 
rolling plains.
Alternatively it may be something more sinister. A powerful 
agent of the Enemy, or of other dark forces that are beginning 
stir once more in Middle-earth, casting a long, pervasive 
shadow, travelling the lands with foul and evil purpose. 
Player-heroes may well stumble upon a foe beyond any of 
them..
If the Embarkation roll was a 1, the encounter will 
automatically be with a servant of the Enemy. Conversely, if 
it was a 12 the company has encountered one of the great 
powers for Good. The outcome of such a meeting however, 
will depend on how the company approaches matters.
If neither a 1 or a 12 was rolled on the Embarkation table, the 
Look-out must make a Wisdom (Perception) check. 
If the roll succeeds by 5 or more, the company has 
encountered a person of great standing, and sees them for 
what they are.  
Each member of the company may immediately remove 
one point of Shadow. They may also seek an Audience 
(see page 192) with them and, if successful, they may gain 
great knowledge of their path ahead which will grant them 
advantage on the initial rolls on their next encounter, 
and will also bestow a +1 bonus to their Arrival roll. If the 
Audience goes particularly well, the Loremaster may decide 
that the company have gained a Patron.
If the Look-out’s roll succeeds, they have spotted the 
traveller, but do not realise who they may truly be. The initial 
description of this encounter should then be played out as if it 
was a result of 1 on this table (A Chance Encounter). 
Should the company choose to interact with the traveller, 
successful Wisdom (Insight) rolls or some demonstration that 
the company has true and good purpose should lead to the 
true identity of the person they have met. Should this happen, 
the encounter should then play out in much the same way as 
detailed above.
If the Look-out’s roll fails, the company have encountered a 
dark and powerful foe way beyond any of them. For low-level 
companies this could be a superior force of Orcs, a pack of 
Wargs, or perhaps a particularly large and fierce Troll. At 
higher levels it could be something much darker and more 
powerful – a warband of Uruk-hai, or even a Nazgûl about 
his master’s dark bidding.
 
Companies must immediately make a Corruption Save to 
avoid gaining 2 points of Shadow and they must seek to avoid 
further confrontation by each making a a Dexterity (Stealth) 
check (with a single additional Animal Handling check if the 
company has horses or pack ponies) to slip away unnoticed. 
Should more than half fail, they will need to flee in haste for 
fear of their very lives. All gain an additional level of exhaustion, 
additionally the Arrival roll will be subject to a -1 modifier.
If the Look-out’s roll fails by 5 or more they are automatically 
spotted, with no chance to sneak away. They must flee in haste 
for fear of their very lives. They automatically gain 2 points of 
Shadow, and an additional level of exhaustion, additionally 
the Arrival roll will be subject to a -1 modifier.

--- PAGE 174 ---
174
Adventures in Middle-earth
The Loremaster can optionally require additional 
checks to see if the company gain Shadow Points in 
areas of Middle-earth that are deemed "Blighted 
Places". See Sources of Corruption on page 180 for 
more details.
Step Three: The Arrival Phase
As the company completes its journey they make a roll to 
determine their overall mood and demeanour. Dependent 
upon the exhortations of the Guide, the difficulty of the 
terrain they have travelled and the company’s successes 
or failures upon the road, they may be in high spirits or 
despondent; full of vigour or footsore and weary. They may 
have fine tales to tell, or they may be gritting their teeth and 
silently scowling at any folk with whom they must interact. 
This roll is additionally modified depending on the difficulty 
of the majority of the terrain that the company crossed, as 
follows:
• 
Easy Terrain: +1 to the Arrival roll
• 
Moderate Terrain: No modifier to the Arrival roll
• 
Hard or Severe Terrain: -1 to the Arrival roll
• 
Daunting Terrain: -2 to the Arrival roll 
The Guide rolls a d8, applies any modifiers from the 
Embarkation roll and the terrain of the journey, and then 
compares the result with the table on the opposite page:

--- PAGE 175 ---
175
Journeys
1. (or less) Weary to Their Bones
The journey has taken a heavy toll on the spirits of the 
company.  The paths they have followed have shown them 
little that is good and have left them feeling tired and 
without hope. The memories of any good fortune they may 
have experienced along the way now seem distant and 
intangible. 
Each member of the company must make a Wisdom saving 
throw, (DC: 12 + Peril Rating of the Journey) to avoid receiving 
2 points of Shadow. If their path has led them through a 
place touched by the Shadow (10 on the Events table), the DC 
increases by an additional 2 points.
2. Empty Bellies
Regardless of whether the company has enjoyed fine food 
throughout the journey, or has subsisted on cold, hard trail 
rations, during the final leg of their journey their supplies 
dwindle rapidly and they arrive at their destination feeling 
the pangs of hunger gnawing relentlessly at them. This hunger 
will be a distraction to them and everyone in the company 
gains a level of exhaustion.
3. Arrival in Poor Spirits
They are beset by foul moods and short tempers that they 
must work hard to throw off. Each has disadvantage on all 
ability checks pertaining to social interaction, until such time 
as they succeed in one of these rolls. This penalty will apply 
if they seek an Audience at the destination. If there is a single 
upside to this dark mood, it is that they are so spoiling for a 
fight that each member of the company receives advantage to 
their Initiative rolls until they take a short rest..	
	
4. An Uncertain Arrival
The company’s arrival is poorly timed or it may be that 
they are unsure if they have even arrived at the correct 
destination. They may arrive at a settlement late in the night, 
after the gates have been barred, and may need to work 
hard to convince a watchman to allow them to enter, or they 
may have been certain that the Orc encampment that they 
were planning to scout before attacking it was still several 
miles away, only to find themselves almost in its midst. The 
mechanics for this result will vary greatly, depending on the 
nature of the destination. 
The Loremaster may require the company to play out an 
impromptu Audience to simply gain access. A short but 
desperate fight may be played out as the company struggles 
to overcome enemy guards before an alarm is raised. The 
Loremaster may ask for a Wisdom (Survival) check from the 
Guide to successfully navigate to the correct destination, 
with a failed roll resulting in all members of the company 
receiving a level of exhaustion, as they are faced with 
additional long miles to reach their true destination.
5. A Long But Worthy Journey
As the company nears the end of their journey they feel 
every mile they have walked in the aches and pains that 
beset their bodies. But the aches are good ones, the legacy 
of a path well walked to a worthy goal. As they arrive, their 
fatigue seems to slip away like mist on a summer morning, 
leaving them feeling refreshed and invigorated. As a result, 
each member of the company may immediately remove a 
level of exhaustion.
6. Grimly Determined
The many leagues that the company has travelled have filled 
them with a sense of clear purpose regarding their goals, dark 
though the path ahead may be. As a result, the Guide will 
receive a +1 bonus to their next Embarkation roll.  
7. Tall Tales and Great Deeds
The company arrives with the tales of their journey on their 
lips, their spirits high and their thoughts filled with fine 
memories. This joyous mood is contagious to all but the most 
dour of folk they may encounter. Accordingly, each member of 
the company has advantage on all ability checks pertaining 
to social interaction. This bonus will also apply if they should 
seek an Audience at their destination. The bonus will remain 
until they fail at one of these rolls.
8. (or more) Inspired and filled with Hope
The Journey has served to reaffirm the company's 
dedication to their struggles and to their bonds with each 
other. Together they have weathered hardships, faced 
dangers and persevered and their faith in themselves and 
each other seems unshakeable. As a result, each member 
of the company may remove 2 points of Shadow and gains 
Inspiration.
 
 Arrival Table

--- PAGE 176 ---
176
Adventures in Middle-earth
"Well, I can remember three nights there for certain, 
and I seem to remember several more, but I would take 
my oath that it was never a whole month. Anyone would 
think that time did not count in there!" 
Usually, knowing the exact duration of a journey is 
not very important. The company travel for days or 
weeks, and pay little heed to the exact date or how many 
days precisely the journey took. However, there may 
come situations where knowing the exact count of days 
is important – say, the company are trying to get to a 
particular dwarf-door before the last day of autumn, or 
need to reach a fortress before enemies besiege it in seven 
days’ time. In such cases, the first step is to work out the 
effective length of the journey. 
Each hex on the Adventurer’s Map is 10 miles across, but 
a mile of thick forest takes longer to cross than a mile 
of open ground. The Terrain Difficulty table below gives 
multipliers for the various terrain types.
Terrain Difficulty
Map Key
Difficulty
The traversed terrain is mostly...
Modifier
-
very easy
good road*
x0.5
easy
open terrain, well-trodden track or path, plains, meadows, on a boat 
along a navigable river
x1
moderate
pathless wilderness, hills, sparse woods, bogs
x1.5
hard
marshes, wastes, fells, woods with good tracks**
x2
severe
dense woods, very rough ground, any road or path in Mirkwood**
x3
daunting
densest wood, desert, blighted or ruined land, mountain passes
x5
*Travelling across a distance on a good road gives a modifier of x0.5, halving the time needed to cover the entire route, 
regardless of the terrain the road traverses.
**A company cannot advance through woods or dense woods riding horses. The travelling Player-heroes must dismount 
and proceed by leading their horses on foot.
Divide the distance covered by the travel speed of the company, rounding all fractions to the nearest whole number. The result 
is equal to the expected length of the journey in days. The table below shows the distance covered in miles by a company in 
an average day of travel.
Travel Speed
Company travelling...	
       Miles per day
On foot	
	
	
	
	
   	
           20
Riding horses	
	
	
	
	
      	
           40 
Using boats on a river	               	
  	
         20 downstream, 5-10 against the current
Optional: Tracking Time

--- PAGE 177 ---
Grey Mountains
East Bight
Gladden
Fields
Carrock
Running River
Redwater
Long
     Lake
Forest River
Elf-path
Old Ford
Old Forest Road
River Gladden
Great River of Wilderland
River loudwater
River Hoarwell
E
Iron Hills
E Esgaroth
E Dale
E
Erebor
E
Elven King’s
Halls
E
Rhosgobel
E
Woodmen
Town
E
Woodland
Hall
E
EMountain 
Hall
E
E
Moria
Beorn’s
House
E
Eagles’ Eyrie
Rivendell
u
Southern Mirkwood
East
Nether Vales
n
Misty 
Mountains
a
Lorien
Dol Guldur
West
Nether Vales
n
u
Withered Heath
The Waste
c
o
Upper Marches
n
Northern
Dalelands
Long Marshes
o
Enchanted Stream
Forest
Gate
Grey Mountain Narrows
n
Woodland Realm
c
Northern Mirkwood
n
Western
 Mirkwood
n
u
Mountains
                        of  Mirkwood
Heart of Mirkwood
o
The Narrows
of the Forest
o
c
East Anduin
Vales 
c
West
Anduin Vales
c
East 
Middle
Vales 
a
West
Middle
Vales 
c
West
Upper
Vales
n
East
Upper
Vales
c
Vale of
Gundabad
o
Mount
Gundabad
u
Mount
Gram
o
Mountains of Angmar
o
Angmar
o
Ettenmoors
o
Coldfells
n
Trollshaws
n
a
The Angle
c
High Pass
n
n Mountain
                  Pass
Redhorn
                  Pass
n
Lone-lands
n
Eregion
c
Dunland
c
Lone-lands
n
Fangorn
o
Brown Lands
o
a Free Lands
c Border Lands
n Wild Lands
o Shadow Lands
u Dark Lands
Easy
Moderate
Hard
Severe
Daunting
Impassable
Nether Marches
n
to The Shire
o
East Rhovanion
n
Grey Meadows
n
Dorwinion
c
Western
Eaves
c
Rhun
>
Iron Hills
Dimrill Dale
-
Goblin-town
Wilderland

--- PAGE 178 ---
A stout helm and round shield have I.  
A sharp spear and a shimmering sword. 
Battle brave and hauberk-harnessed, 
Beard woven in battle knots 
And yet my heart feels as heavy as heaped and hammered stones. 
Long-hauling 'neath the layered leaves of this wearisome wood, 
All joy is gone. 
Send help father, for I do not know where we went wrong.
The Shadow

--- PAGE 180 ---
180
Adventures in Middle-earth
- The Shadow -
“I have seen three ages in the West of the 
world, and many defeats, and many fruitless 
victories.”
Middle-earth has been under attack by the forces of 
darkness since its creation. Through each Age, the world 
has been threatened by the designs of a Dark Lord, a 
powerful Enemy relentless in the desire to dominate all. 
Sauron the Great, an evil spirit of immense power, might 
already be far closer to victory than any dare dread. 
The presence of the Enemy weighs upon the hearts of 
most inhabitants of Middle-earth, with the exception of 
a fortunate few living in the havens of the north-west. 
Multitudes living to the East and South worship him as 
the only god they have ever known.
The Free Peoples of the North are among those few who 
have cherished a glimmer of hope: the knowledge that, 
as powerful as he appears to be, Sauron can be resisted 
and even defeated by steadfast opposition. Countless 
battles have been won or lost by alliances of the peoples 
of Middle-earth, and though the Shadow has never failed 
to return in a new shape, even after the most resounding 
defeats, neither has hope ever fully deserted the hearts of 
those who fight against it.
But the Shadow does not solely rely upon instruments of 
war and the devious deeds of its servants to breed fear and 
doubt in its enemies. The temptations that dwell even in the 
hearts of the brave have ever been the ally of the Shadow. 
Valiant warriors, adventurers and kings can all stray 
from their path willingly, given the right circumstances. 
No matter how pure they believe their motives to be, or 
how just the ends, giving in to their darkest desires will 
eventually lead them to exert their power for personal 
gain or the domination of others.
Sources of Corruption
Adventurers accumulate Shadow points to represent the 
growing burden of grief, doubt, weariness and self-interest 
that comes to rest on the hearts and minds of those who 
oppose the Shadow. While much corruption can be 
attributed to the anguish caused by the Dark Lord’s deeds, 
the Shadow works best when exaggerating and nurturing 
weaknesses that are already present. As the Twilight of the 
Third Age approaches, the sources of corruption multiply 
and increase in severity. Heroes mainly risk gaining 
Shadow points in four ways:

--- PAGE 181 ---
181
The Shadow
• 
Experiencing distressing events (see Anguish).
• 
Crossing or dwelling in an area tainted by 
manifestations of the Shadow (see Blighted Places).
• 
Committing despicable or dishonourable deeds, 
regardless of the end they sought to achieve (see 
Misdeeds).
• 
Taking possession of a cursed or tainted item or 
treasure (see Tainted Treasure).
Anguish
… suddenly he knew that he was imprisoned, caught 
hopelessly; he was in a barrow.
Living the life of adventurers in a world where the light is 
fading, heroes will often be reminded of their own fragility, 
and that of the world they know and love. When a Player-
hero witnesses a distressing event or directly experiences 
a disturbing situation, they must make a Wisdom saving 
throw against Corruption, which is typically at Difficulty 
Class 15.
The table below provides a number of examples to help 
the Loremaster decide if a situation requires a Wisdom 
saving throw. The column to the right indicates how many 
Shadow points a Player-hero gains if the saving throw is 
failed.
Blighted Places
There was no movement of air down under the forest- roof, 
and it was everlastingly still and dark and stuffy.
Darkness seems thicker in the lair of a wicked beast, and 
the air itself hangs gloomily where black treachery was 
once committed. Grief and suffering never abandon the 
pits once inhabited by servants of the Dark Lord or the 
plains where bloody battles were fought.
When a Player-hero enters or lingers in an area that has 
been infused with malice by the darkness and has become 
Blighted, they must make a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw. 
If the saving throw is failed, the Player-hero gains 1 point 
of Shadow.
Adventurers will usually only enter a Blighted place when 
they really need to, but they could also stumble inadvertently 
into one in the course of a journey. The Loremaster can 
optionally  represent this by asking the players to make a 
Wisdom saving throw against Corruption when travelling 
through regions where the Shadow falls more strongly. The 
Anguish
Sources of Anguish
Example
Shadow Gain
Natural but unexpected tragic event, or 
very grievous occurrence.
Serious or mortal accident, death in the 
family, natural catastrophe.
The Player-hero gains 1 Shadow 
point only if they fail the Wisdom 
saving throw with a 1 or a 2.
Gruesome killing, dreadful experience, 
Orc-work (senseless destruction), 
display of the power of the Enemy.
Awakening in a haunted tomb, discover 
a traitor among friends, discovering 
villagers savagely mutilated, seeing the 
mustering of a Shadow army.
1 Shadow point if Wisdom saving 
throw is failed.
Harrowing experience, physical and 
spiritual torment, Sorcery.
Slavery, torture, the Black Breath, 
haunted by a Wight, seeing the Eye.
2 Shadow points if Wisdom saving 
throw is failed.
Experience directly the power of the 
Enemy.
Interrogated by the Eye, captured by the 
Nazgûl.
Gain 1 Shadow point regardless of 
the outcome of the Wisdom saving 
throw. Then, gain two additional 
points if the saving throw is failed.

--- PAGE 182 ---
182
Adventures in Middle-earth
Blighted Lands table below shows the frequency of tests 
needed should the Loremaster deem a test required when 
travelling through a Blighted place found in the different 
types of regions.
It is left to the discretion of the Loremaster to determine 
whether a given place is considered Blighted or not. It is 
possible for an area found within a region classified as 
Wild, Shadow or even Dark not to require any Wisdom 
saving throws to traverse. As far as the accumulation 
of Shadow is concerned, the various region types as 
classified on the Loremaster’s Map serve as guidelines 
for the Loremaster to decide whether the region currently 
traversed by company is Blighted or not, with Free Lands 
being rarely Blighted, and Dark Lands being mostly so.
When is an area Blighted?
If the Loremaster isn’t sure and needs a hard and fast 
rule to determine if an area currently traversed by the 
company is Blighted, they can roll a d20 and check the 
results against the Blighted Lands table below. If the 
area is Blighted, Player-heroes travelling through it are 
required to make DC 15 Wisdom saving throws against 
Corruption per the table. The Blighted test could be 
repeated if there are other reasons to consider the place 
to be unwholesome. For example, an area that has been 
inhabited for centuries by minions of the Dark Lord, or 
is currently infested by them; the soul of a village has 
been tainted by a terrible murder or act of treason, or 
the spirit of a place is being poisoned by dark sorcery, 
or similar.
Blighted Lands
Traversed 
Region
Area is 
Blighted 
on a…
Wisdom Saving 
Throw Frequency
Free Lands, 
Border Lands
1
Only when required 
by current adventure.
Wild Lands
1-3
Once every fourteen 
hexes crossed
Shadow Lands
1-5
Once per two hexes 
crossed
Dark Lands
1-7
Once per hex crossed
Misdeeds
"You can say that I was too strong and took it by force. For 
I am too strong for you, halfling," he cried; and suddenly he 
sprang over the stone and leaped at Frodo.
Even the most virtuous heroes can find themselves in 
circumstances that tempt them to do something that 
would call their integrity into question. Such misdeeds 
can be the result of an accident or misunderstanding, but 
could also result from the temptation to achieve a noble 
goal by nefarious means. In a time when the Darkness is 
growing ever stronger, those who fight it must master and 
overcome the darker impulses within themselves.
The Loremaster should usually warn the players when 
they are about to carry out a Misdeed. This can sometimes 
be a judgement call, but the Misdeed table below can be 
used as the basis of the Loremaster’s decision.
If the Loremaster determines that a Misdeed has been 
committed, the guilty character automatically gains a 
number of Shadow points (see table below). Player-heroes 
do not make a Wisdom saving throw when committing a 
Misdeed, as they are not being tempted by the Shadow: 
they are willingly embracing its ways.
Misdeeds
Action
Shadow 
Gain
Accidental misdeed
-
Violent threats
1 point
Lying purposefully, subtly manipulating 
the will of others
2 points
Cowardice, theft and plunder
3 points
Unprovoked aggression, abusing own 
authority to influence or dominate
4 points
Torment and torture, murder
5 points
It is important to note that merely attempting to do 
something despicable is a Misdeed, regardless of whether 
the action achieves its intended objective or not. If the 
action is classed as a Misdeed due to circumstances that

--- PAGE 183 ---
183
The Shadow
the players are unaware of, for example if they ambush 
someone they completely believe to be guilty of a heinous 
crime (unprovoked aggression), but who later turns out 
to be innocent, they should not immediately gain the 
Shadow points. Instead, their behaviour when the mistake 
comes to light determines if they take the points or not. If 
their reaction is one of contrition and an earnest attempt 
to put the situation right, then the points can be waived 
at the Loremaster’s discretion. This shouldn’t be too easy 
an option, and could result in a side-quest for the Player-
heroes.
Tainted Treasure
There for ages his huge bones could be seen in calm weather 
amid the ruined piles of the old town. But few dared to 
cross the cursed spot, and none dared to dive into the 
shivering water or recover the precious stones that fell from 
his rotting carcass…
It may not tarnish like silver or rust like iron, but gold can 
corrupt faster than both, as it is often sought after with a 
fierce desire. The treasure found within the lair of some 
dead monster or buried in a long-sealed tomb may be 
tainted, its sheen able to drive men to distraction and fill 
their hearts with greed.
Tainted Treasure
Treasure 
Provenance 
(Examples)
DC
Shadow Gain
From the hoard of a Troll
12
1 point
From the hoard of a 
Dragon
15
1 point
Stolen from an ancient 
barrow
12
2 points
From a stronghold of the 
Dark Lord
15
1 automatic 
point. Then gain 3 
additional points if 
test fails.
Player-heroes must pass a Wisdom saving throw against 
Corruption upon finding tainted treasure, or suffer the 
Shadow points indicated on the table.
Consequences of Corruption
He did not go much further, but sat down on the cold floor 
and gave himself up to complete miserableness, for a long 
while.
Adventurers who dare to challenge the encroaching 
darkness face the risk of being overcome with grief or 
worse. In gaming terms, a Player-hero must be careful not 
to accumulate more Shadow points than he is able to get 
rid of.
When a Player-hero’s Shadow point total exceeds their 
Wisdom score, they have been made Miserable, as their 
spirit is weakened by too much grief, sorrow and dark 
experiences.
New Condition: Miserable
• 
A Miserable creature has disadvantage on attack rolls.
• 
The creature automatically fails Charisma ability checks.
A Miserable character can temporarily counter the effects 
of the Miserable condition by spending inspiration. Using 
inspiration removes the disadvantage on one attack roll, 
or enables the player-hero to make a Charisma ability 
check at disadvantage.  
Bouts of Madness
"What have I said?" he cried, "what have I done?"
When a Player-hero who is Miserable rolls equal or less 
than difference between their Shadow point total and 
their Wisdom while making an ability check, attack roll or 
saving throw, they experience a bout of madness.
For example, a Player-hero with Wisdom 10 and 15 
Shadow points, suffers a bout of madness when they roll 
five or below while making an ability check, attack roll or 
saving throw.  If they gain another point of Shadow then 
the bout is triggered on a roll of 1 – 6, and so on.
When this happens, the player relinquishes control of their 
character to the Loremaster for a short period of time. The 
Loremaster plays out the crisis, making the character do 
something they will later regret. Here are some examples 
of the consequences of a bout of madness:

--- PAGE 184 ---
184
Adventures in Middle-earth
• 
Rage – the character broods over real or imaginary 
wrongs until they react aggressively to a perceived 
threat or source of opposition.
• 
Wretchedness – the hero descends in a deep state 
of depression. They cannot propose any task for the 
length of the crisis.
• 
Desperation – the hero cannot find a trace of hope in 
his spirit, and thus cannot use inspiration until their 
heart is again lifted.
• 
Lust – the character feels an irresistible desire for an 
object not belonging to them, and tries to secretly take 
it.
If at all possible, the Loremaster should ground the 
consequences of a bout of madness either on the event 
that triggered the crisis, on the player-hero’s Shadow 
Weakness, or on one of their Shadow Weakness Flaws (see 
Degeneration below). 
More often than not, the crisis provokes an aggression of 
some type, verbal or physical, upon the most likely and 
available target. The Loremaster should pick the most 
appropriate pretext and build the episode upon it.
Usually, a bout of madness is resolved right after the 
Player-hero got the triggering result, but the Loremaster 
can choose to postpone the reaction, letting the player keep 
control of their character, only to snatch it from them at a 
later, more appropriate moment. (The Loremaster might 
choose to do so especially when the roll that provoked the 
bout of madness wasn’t dramatically relevant.)
A Miserable Lifstan has entered a ruined tomb in 
Mirkwood with Trotter and failed a Wisdom (Perception) 
ability check by rolling a 1. The young Barding has 
been feeling uneasy since he descended the rotting steps 
leading to the underground chambers, and he secretly 
blames his friend Trotter for leading him into such a 
place. When a Spider suddenly emerges from the inky 
darkness, the Loremaster decides that Lifstan flees the 
place immediately, leaving Trotter to face the critter alone.
When a bout of madness finally passes, the character 
regains control and sees their mind finally cleared of the 
tangle of fear and doubt he fell into before facing the crisis.
In gaming terms, a player who suffered a bout of madness 
cancels all the Shadow points they have accumulated 
since their last bout of madness, and replaces them with a 
single ‘permanent’ Shadow point.
Permanent Shadow points may not be removed in any 
way – they are permanent corruption of the spirit and 
there is no magic that can undo them; however, they 
are considered as normal Shadow points for all other 
purposes.
Degeneration
In addition to ‘resetting’ their Shadow points, every time 
a Player-hero suffers a bout of madness they develop a 
new Shadow Weakness Flaw. Their Shadow Weakness 
determines the precise nature of their degeneration, as 
the various Shadow Weakness Flaws are taken from a list 
directly corresponding to their chosen Shadow Weakness.
A Shadow Weakness represents an individual’s main inner 
fault; their susceptibility to a certain kind of temptation 
Degeneration
Shadow weakness
1
2
3
4
Curse of Vengeance
Spiteful
Brutal
Cruel
Murderous
Dragon-sickness
Grasping
Mistrustful
Deceitful
Thieving
Lure of Power
Resentful
Arrogant
Overconfident
Tyrannical
Lure of Secrets
Haughty
Scornful
Scheming
Treacherous
Wandering-madness
Idle
Forgetful
Uncaring
Cowardly

--- PAGE 185 ---
185
The Shadow
or behavioural flaw. This vulnerability is exploited by the 
corrupting power of the Shadow, gradually twisting the 
Player-hero’s behaviour. Each list presents its four Shadow 
Weakness Flaws in order of increasing seriousness: the 
first time a Player-hero fails and is taken by madness they 
develop the first Shadow Weakness Flaw on the list, then 
the second, and so on.
A flawed adventurer has not lost the possibility of being 
a hero. Many of the characters described in the books 
display the influence of the Shadow to some measure. 
In most cases, they were able to keep their weaknesses in 
check, avoiding corruption’s direst consequences.
Degeneration Consequences
The first entry on each list serves as a ‘warning’ of sorts 
for a player: their character is beginning to slip into 
Shadow. A player can actually choose to use this to their 
advantage, by properly roleplaying their new Shadow 
Weakness Flaw, they can gain inspiration, just as they do 
when portraying their hero's characteristics derived from 
their background.
Reaching the second entry means a character has 
continued on their ever-darkening path. In addition to their 
new Flaw, any skill or feature that their Shadow Weakness 
Flaws would impair automatically loses advantage. For 
example, the Rohirrim love their horses as kin and may 
have advantage on Animal Handling checks. A Rohirrim 
with the Curse of Vengeance who becomes Brutal no 
longer treats horses as kindly as he once did and loses his 
advantage on Animal Handling checks.
The third tier is a precarious one and reaching it signals 
that a character is likely destined for retirement, tragedy 
or villainy. In addition to their third Shadow Weakness 
Flaw, Player-heroes that have fallen to this point suffer 
disadvantage on all social ability checks, unless their 
Flaw would directly suggest otherwise. 
For example, a Deceitful hero does not suffer disadvantage 
on Charisma (Deception) ability checks, a Cruel hero has 
no problem making Charisma (Intimidation) checks and 
so on. 
Note that the behaviour implied by the third tier Shadow 
Weakness Flaws is, in many cases, the sort of conduct that 
leads to Misdeeds; the Player-hero’s descent into darkness 
is thus hastened.
The fourth and final tier places a Player-hero on the cusp 
of becoming an NPC. In addition to their final Shadow 
Weakness Flaw, all Charisma checks suffer disadvantage, 
as do Wisdom (Insight) ability checks. Worse by far, 
whenever presented with a situation where their fourth 
Shadow Weakness Flaw is relevant, the Player-hero must 
make a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw to remain in control 
of themselves. Failure means they act as their fourth tier 
Shadow Weakness Flaw indicates. At this point, their 
friends may very well insist that they leave the company, 
and the Player-hero is forced into retirement.
Failure Aggravation
When a Player-hero fails at an ability check, a Shadow 
Weakness Flaw may dramatically worsen its already 
negative outcome.
If the consequences of a failed roll may be affected by a 
Shadow Weakness Flaw possessed by a Player-hero, the 
Loremaster can severely aggravate the outcome of the 
action, turning it into a truly catastrophic effort.
For example, a Brutal hero attempts to impress a crowd 
using Charisma (Intimidation). The player fails the roll, 
and the Loremaster determines that the adventurer 
actually drew his sword and harmed someone in his 
overzealous attempt to intimidate.
Shadow Weakness Descriptions
Every time a Player-hero develops a Shadow Weakness 
Flaw, they are taking a step towards their complete defeat 
at the hands of the Shadow. They are renouncing their 
higher ambitions and embracing simpler, more primitive 
emotions. They are trading respect for arrogance, love for 
lust, trust for suspicion.
This section describes each Shadow Weakness and Flaws 
connected to it. The Loremaster can use the definitions 
listed here to determine the effects of a bout of madness, 
or to decide whether or not a Shadow Weakness Flaw 
should affect a Player-hero’s abilities.

--- PAGE 186 ---
186
Adventures in Middle-earth
Curse of Vengeance
"I wish I had Gandalf here! Curse him for his choice of you! 
… As for you, I will throw you to the rocks!" he cried and 
lifted Bilbo in his arms.
Individuals who live by the sword are ever tempted to 
draw it, either literally or figuratively, when their will is 
thwarted or when they deem their honour to have been 
impugned by an insult. 
As corruption spreads in the hero’s spirit, their behaviour 
worsens, leading to more extreme violent reactions.
Brutal
A Brutal hero reacts violently to provocations and shows 
little restraint under most circumstances.
Cruel
A Cruel adventurer doesn’t care if their actions cause pain 
and suffering to others, and is needlessly savage with 
their enemies.
Murderous
A hero becomes Murderous when they start to consider 
killing as a perfectly natural way to achieve a goal or 
simply to make things go their way.
Spiteful
The hero often repays real or imagined wrongs with 
vicious rudeness. Depending on the provocation, the hero 
may be simply very impolite, or downright insulting.
Dragon-sickness
…he fell under the Dragon-sickness, and took most of the 
gold and fled with it, and died of starvation in the Waste, 
deserted by his companions.
Adventurers who find themselves on the road to seek 
lost riches run the risk of catching the age-old disease 
capable of turning a pile of enchanted gold into bitter 
ashes. As the Shadow tightens its grip on their hearts, 
the world shrinks around them and their closely guarded 
possessions.
Deceitful
A Deceitful adventurer feels no shame in misleading others 
with lies and stratagems, as long as their machinations 
further their ends and needs.
Grasping
Grasping describes the desire to accumulate gold and 
precious items above all else, just for the sake of possessing 
them.
Mistrustful
When your prized possessions start to weigh you down 
and become a treasure to be guarded, even the good 
advice of friends appears to mask dubious intentions.
Thieving
A Thieving adventurer has discovered that anything they 
desire can be theirs – they just have to take it. They earned 
the right to take all they want when they sacrificed the 
love of their peers and their own self-respect.

--- PAGE 187 ---
187
The Shadow
Lure of Power
"It is by our own folly that the Enemy will defeat us," cried 
Boromir. "How it angers me! Fool! Obstinate fool! Running 
wilfully to death and ruining our cause."
When a man is given a position of authority, either by 
rank, lineage or stature, he may end up mistaking his own 
wishes for those of the people he should be guiding or 
keeping safe. Power is the quintessential temptation, and 
provides the Shadow with an easy way to win the hearts 
of those who desire it.
Arrogant
An Arrogant hero doesn’t miss an opportunity to underline 
their own importance, often belittling their peers and 
companions.
Overconfident
Overconfidence denotes overweening pride, a sentiment 
that blinds a hero to their own limits and weaknesses. 
They will set out to do anything they set their mind upon, 
regardless of the consequences that might befall others.
Resentful
A Resentful adventurer is often bitter and angry with the 
people they ought to protect, as they feel that they risk 
their life for individuals that fail to recognise their actions 
on their behalf.
Tyrannical
A Tyrannical hero escalates their actions and desires to the 
level of a just cause. Their disregard for the lives of others 
is so profound that they will go to any length to achieve 
their ends, regardless of the cost or methods employed to 
accomplish them. Any dissenting opinion is considered to 
be utter betrayal.
Lure of Secrets
"The roots of those mountains must be roots indeed; there 
must be great secrets buried there which have not been 
discovered since the beginning."
Inquisitiveness and curiosity are desirable virtues in an 
individual, but knowledge can be put to malicious use 
and learned individuals can look down on others as 
ignorant fools. Secrets are dangerous, as the very desire of 
uncovering them may corrupt the heart.
Haughty
A Haughty character doesn’t recognise easily the wisdom 
found in the words and actions of others, and tends to 
turn aside all advice and offers of help.
Scornful
A Scornful hero treats the propositions of others with 
disdain, making use of every opportunity to mock them 
for their presumed inadequacy.
Scheming
A Scheming adventurer keeps their thoughts and intentions 
to themselves at all times, never giving advice and heeding 
only their own judgement. They might sometimes agree 
with the propositions of others, but only to be free to 
follow their own choices later.
Treacherous
When an adventurer becomes Treacherous they cannot be 
trusted to keep their word. They are ready to betray their 
own friends and allies if it would be to their advantage.

--- PAGE 188 ---
188
Adventures in Middle-earth
Wandering-madness
"I feel I need a holiday, a very long holiday, as I have told 
you before. Probably a permanent holiday: I don’t expect I 
shall return."
Wandering without ever really settling down might be the 
destiny of most adventurers, but it carries the risk of never 
finding something to live for. The road goes ever on and 
on, it’s true, but whither then?
Cowardly
A Cowardly hero cares only for their own safety under 
any circumstances, and will go to any length to save 
themselves when a threat arises.
Forgetful
Forgetful indicates that a hero is often daydreaming and 
absentminded, and finds it difficult to remember even 
important things.
Idle
It takes a lot to stir an Idle adventurer into action. He is 
easily distracted, and must be cajoled to fully participate 
in endeavours.
Uncaring
An Uncaring adventurer is losing touch with the world 
outside of themselves. They can’t bring themselves to feel 
compassion and quickly lose interest in matters that do 
not concern them directly.
Succumbing to the Shadow
When a Player-hero has developed the full complement 
of four Shadow Weakness Flaws related to their Shadow 
Weakness, they are in risk of totally succumbing to the 
Shadow.
A Player-hero already displaying all four Shadow 
Weakness Flaws who suffers yet another bout of madness 
is hopelessly lost and is taken out of play.
What happens to a Player-hero that falls under the 
Shadow is up to the Loremaster, who might find a way 
to incorporate the fallen hero’s destiny into the plot of 
the ongoing story. Generally speaking, a Player-hero that 
succumbs is likely to disappear quickly from the game, 
probably as a consequence of one of the following events:
• 
Return to Valinor. When the burden of the Shadow 
overpowers an Elf, they will seek to leave Middle-earth 
as soon as possible, to sail for the Uttermost West and 
be healed of the sadness and misery of this world.
• 
Madness. When a Man, a Hobbit or a Dwarf falls 
under the Shadow, they succumb to madness. More 
often than not, this will result sooner or later in the 
death of the hero as the madman kills themselves, 
threatens others to the extent that they must be killed 
or starves to death in some solitary place, forsaken by 
men and beasts.

--- PAGE 189 ---
189
The Shadow

--- PAGE 190 ---
I mean to travel all the way there, mother. To Erebor! 
 
I will lay eyes upon our ancestral home restored, and oh how I long to 
see it. I know that the road is long, but I am unafraid.  I have fallen 
in with a stout bunch of fellow travellers, and we all mean to go to 
Dale and speak with King Bard first. He has sent out a call for 
adventurers, and that’s what I am now!  I will put your sword to good 
use in the service of this king of Men, as he clears all the land of Orcs 
and Goblins. 
 
I know that I am not the best with spoken words, but one of my 
companions is. She could charm the birds from the trees, such honeyed 
words she speaks. I am certain that on her reccomendation King 
Bard will welcome us into his service, and if with hard work I can 
win favour there who knows where I might end up? In Erebor itself! A 
guard to King Dáin himself! 
Audiences

--- PAGE 192 ---
192
Adventures in Middle-earth
- Audiences -
Who are you and what do you want?” they 
shouted, leaping to their feet and groping for 
weapons. “Thorin son of Thráin son of Thrór 
King under the Mountain!” said the Dwarf in a 
loud voice, and he looked it, in spite of his torn 
clothes and draggled hood.
Adventurers meet many travellers and wanderers along 
the road, and may visit foreign courts and realms if their 
adventuring takes them far enough from their homelands. 
Whenever they deal with strangers, they should exercise 
some caution, as theirs is a trade considered peculiar  or 
even dangerous by the common folk, and their arrival is 
often met with fear and suspicion. Even when meeting 
other enemies of the Enemy, heroes should watch their 
tongues and be mindful of their manners, as even trusty 
friends can be quick to anger in days of doubt.
The success or failure of a company’s quest can often 
depend on the people the adventurers meet along the way. 
There are many powerful individuals who at first appear 
to be simple denizens of the Wild, whose help or counsel 
could prove invaluable, and many cunning foes who are 
best avoided can at first appear friendly.  Adventurers 
must soon learn that not all that glitters is gold, and all 
that is gold does not glitter…
Cultural Attitudes
"Indeed in nothing is the power of the Dark Lord more 
clearly shown than in the estrangement that divides all 
those who still oppose him. Yet so little faith and trust do 
we find now in the world beyond… that we dare not by our 
own trust endanger our land. We live now upon an island 
amid many perils, and our hands are more often upon the 
bowstring than upon the harp."
Travellers and adventurers are the exception and not the 
rule in Middle-earth. Few folk ever travel far from their 
place of birth, and know of other lands and other peoples 
by distant rumour and nothing more – assuming they’ve 
heard of them at all. The Shire-Hobbits, for example, have 
no dealings with Men other than the Bree-Folk, while in 
Rohan, the peoples of Wilderland are little trusted and 
Hobbits are figures out of legend. 
The chart opposite represents the general way the cultures 
of the various Free Folk regard one another in the year 
2946 of the Third Age. 
For example, the Beornings are none too fond of the 
Dwarves of Erebor and the feeling is mutual. While the

--- PAGE 193 ---
193
Audiences
 
Starting Attitudes of...
Toward:
Bardings
Beornings
Bree-folk
Dúnedain
Dwarves 
of the 
Lonely 
Mountain
Elves of 
Mirkwood
Men of 
Minas 
Tirith
Hobbits 
of the 
Shire
Men of 
the Lake
Riders of 
Rohan
Woodmen
Bardings
Favoured
Friendly
Neutral
Unknown
Favoured
Neutral
Unknown
Unknown
Friendly
Unknown
Neutral
Beornings
Friendly
Favoured
Unknown
Unknown
Askance
Neutral
Unknown
Unknown
Neutral
Unknown
Friendly
Men of 
Bree
Neutral
Unknown
Favoured
Neutral
Friendly
Unknown
Unknown
Friendly
Unknown
Unknown
Unknown
Dúnedain
Unknown
Unknown
Askance
Favoured
Neutral
Unknown
Askance
Askance
Unknown
Unknown
Unknown
Dwarves 
of the 
Lonely 
Mountain
Favoured
Askance
Friendly
Neutral
Favoured
Mistrust
Unknown
Neutral
Friendly
Unknown
Neutral
Elves of 
Mirkwood
Friendly
Neutral
Unknown
Unknown
Mistrust
Favoured
Unknown
Unknown
Friendly
Askance
Friendly
Men of 
Minas 
Tirith
Neutral
Unknown
Unknown
Neutral
Unknown
Unknown
Favoured
Unknown
Neutral
Favoured
Unknown
Hobbits of 
the Shire
Friendly
Unknown
Friendly
Friendly
Friendly
Unknown
Unknown
Favoured
Unknown
Unknown
Unknown
Men of 
the Lake
Friendly
Neutral
Unknown
Unknown
Friendly
Friendly
Neutral
Unknown
Favoured
Unknown
Neutral
Riders of 
Rohan
Unknown
Unknown
Unknown
Unknown
Unknown
Unknown
Favoured
Unknown
Unknown
Favoured
Unknown
Woodmen 
Neutral
Friendly
Unknown
Unknown
Neutral
Friendly
Unknown
Unknown
Neutral
Unknown
Favoured

--- PAGE 194 ---
194
Adventures in Middle-earth
Dwarves certainly respect all that Beorn did for their 
kind, they find his followers a bit uncouth and a little 
too greedy for their tastes. The Beornings, in turn, think 
the Dwarves value stone and metal more than people, 
charging them extra accordingly for safe passage 
through their lands. If a company of heroes with one 
or two prominent Dwarven members helped clear the 
Old Forest Road through Mirkwood and started helping 
the Beornings with their troubles occasionally, that 
“Askance” will soon slide to “Neutral” and perhaps even 
“Friendly” with a few years of hard work. On the other 
hand, while the folk of the Woodland Realm appreciate 
King Bard’s heroism, the logging of various groups of 
Barding outlaws along their borders, has made them 
eye their eastern neighbours somewhat warily. If the 
Bowman does nothing, the Elves of Mirkwood may begin 
to regard Bardings in a very poor light.
 
The listed attitudes are the default starting points for any 
social interactions that heroes may engage in with NPCs at 
the start of a campaign, but the actions of heroes can (and 
should!) change these entries. 
Favoured – Members of this culture are viewed in the best 
possible light. Simple requests are readily granted, and 
even more complex appeals will be strongly considered.
Friendly – Members of this culture are openly welcomed 
and treated fairly. Simple requests are positively 
considered and more difficult favours are quite possible.
Neutral – Members of this culture are viewed impartially. 
Simple requests may be granted, difficult ones are, more 
often than not, dismissed.
Askance – Members of this culture are considered 
somewhat suspect.  Simple requests may be, reluctantly, 
granted, but without exceedingly compelling reasons, 
anything else will be rejected out of hand.
Mistrust – Members of this culture are actively doubted 
or the cultures in question have a long or troubled history. 
All but the simplest or most desperate requests are seen 
as an attempt to trick or insult, or the words of a beggar. 
Unknown – Members of this culture are simply unknown 
or never heard of.
Changes that have occurred recently in Middle-earth are 
already reflected on the table. For example, the Bardings 
regard Hobbits of the Shire in a Friendly way, whereas 
in general, Hobbits of the Shire know nothing about 
Bardings. This is due to the actions of the remarkable Mr. 
Bilbo Baggins, who pitted wits against the Dragon Smaug, 
and gave King Bard the Arkenstone of Thráin, with which 
to bargain for peace with Thorin Oakenshield. 
Songs about Mr. Baggins’ deeds are sung throughout 
Wilderland and Bardings, at present, regard Hobbits in a 
very positive light. Most Hobbits, for their part, have no 
idea what a “Barding” is, or where such a creature may 
be found.
The attitude of an individual being intimidated generally 
drops off the chart from “Mistrust” to “Hostile”. Note that 
use of the Intimidation skill can be a Misdeed (violent 
threat – see page 182) causing whoever attempts it to gain 
one automatic Shadow point, whether successful or not. 
Even when you’re trying to intimidate a villain “for 
the greater good”, you are still embracing the ways of 
Mordor…
Seeking an Audience
When meeting someone for the first time, especially one of 
the great, powerful or wise, it is well to go about it in the 
proper way. 
One member of the company must make an Intelligence 
(Traditions) check at DC15 to introduce the group. 
Depending on circumstances, a hero’s culture, Standard 
of Living and reputation can all influence how they are 
received. 
For example, a wealthy lord is unlikely to have much time 
for a penniless bowman, and a Dwarven master-smith 
may not be willing to meet with a company containing 
several Wood-elf warriors at all.
The result of this check determines the other person’s 
initial reaction. If the check succeeds, use the table 
matching the non-player character’s attitude towards that 
culture. If the check fails, then in this social encounter 
only, treat the non-player character’s attitude as being 
one step lower. Treat Unknown and Askance as occupying

--- PAGE 195 ---
195
Audiences
the same ‘rung’ – in either case, the attitude caused by a 
failed check is Mistrustful.
For example, a Woodman visits King Bard in Lake-town. 
Cross-referencing ‘Barding’ and ‘Woodmen’ on the 
table gives a starting attitude of Neutral. However, the 
unfortunate Woodman fails his Intelligence (traditions) 
check and so Bard looks Askance at this boorish 
barbarian from the wild forest.
Mixed Companies: If there is a mix of cultures in 
the company, then use the attitude of the spokesman 
– the Player-hero who makes the initial Intelligence 
(Traditions) roll.
Reactions
Should the Player-heroes make a request of the non-player 
character, use the NPCs’ current attitude to determine the 
DC.
DC
Favoured Attitude Reaction
0
The NPC greets the Company warmly, and will make minor sacrifices and honour small requests.
10
The NPC accepts a significant risk to aid the Company, if needed. The Company are treated as honoured guests.
20
The NPC does whatever the Company ask, as long as the requests are not outrageous or suspicious. The 
Company are welcomed as the NPC’s close kinfolk and given every comfort and honour that can be mustered. 
DC
Friendly Attitude Reaction
0
The NPC does as asked, as long as there is no prospect of sacrifice or peril. Shelter is freely offered.
10
The NPC greets the Company warmly, and will make minor sacrifices and honour small requests.
20
The NPC accepts a significant risk to aid the Company, if needed. The Company are treated as honoured guests. 
DC
Neutral Attitude Reaction
0
The NPC offers no help, but does no harm.
10
The NPC grudgingly offers shelter for a few nights, and does as asked as long as no risk or sacrifice is required.
20
The NPC provides whatever minor aid or service is asked by the company, but balks at any larger requests. 
DC
Askance or Unknown Attitude Reaction
0
The NPC offers no help, and bids the company leave immediately.
10
The NPC grudgingly offers shelter for one night, but nothing more.
20
The NPC grudgingly offers shelter for one night, and does as asked as long as no risk or sacrifice is required.
DC
Mistrustful Reaction
0
The NPC opposes the company’s actions and thwarts them if possible. Shelter is refused.
10
The NPC offers no help, and bids the company leave immediately.
20
The NPC grudgingly offers shelter for one night, but nothing more.

--- PAGE 196 ---
The long year turns to its close, and I find myself once more drawn 
back to my people. Travel is fine in the summer, sleeping under the 
stars and living on whatever we find and catch. As the nights begin to 
draw in, both my heart and my belly yearn for the comfort of hearth 
and kin. 
 
Much have we accomplished these last seasons. The Forest Road is 
more passable now than ever before. We have all worked hard and 
earned our rest.  Our little company have need of time spent in gentler 
pursuits than the slaying of Spiders and the hewing of Goblins.  But 
we have done well, and it feels good to be returning to you all with 
our heads held high, knowing that we are doing good in the world.  
Perhaps one day they will sing songs of our renewed road, and perhaps 
we will warrant a verse or two? 
 
I need a new axe, this one is quite blunted and chipped, and will stand 
sharpening no more. Could you ask Borri to begin forging me a new 
one? I have coin from King Bard with which to pay him.
The Fellowship Phase

--- PAGE 198 ---
198
Adventures in Middle-earth
The
- Fellowship -
Phase
"When winter first begins to bite and stones 
crack in the frosty night,
when pools are black and trees are bare, 
’tis evil in the Wild to fare."
Heroes are not always busy navigating deep caverns, 
fighting back the Shadow, or fleeing from dangers beyond 
their ability to face. Even the most eager of adventurers 
need some time to rest and enjoy what life has to offer, 
spending days practising a craft, reading a good book, or 
even writing one.
Whether it is spent in the pursuit of a noble goal, or simply 
resting comfortably to recover energy before setting out 
on the road once again, the time Player-heroes pass when 
not adventuring is called the Fellowship phase. (The time 
they spend out travelling, fighting foes and adventuring is 
called, simply, the Adventuring phase.)
How a Fellowship Phase Works
A Fellowship phase is a session of play driven by the 
players’ choices. While during the Adventuring phase, 
players usually react to the Loremaster’s storytelling, 
during a Fellowship phase they get to elaborate upon their 
Player-heroes’ stories and ambitions. The Loremaster is 
the final judge regarding the interpretation of the rules, 
but is invited to sit back and follow what the players have 
to say about their characters.
A Fellowship phase marks the conclusion of the current 
Adventuring phase, and as such ideally takes place at the 
end of a gaming session.
The Passing of Years
The default pacing of gameplay for Adventures in Middle-
earth sees a group of Player-heroes take part in one 
adventure per year of game time. If this pace is kept, then a 
Fellowship phase can also be used as a milestone to mark 
the end of one year of game time and the beginning of the 
following one.
On average, a Fellowship phase marking the passing of a 
year should represent a pause from adventuring lasting 
for approximately an entire season.
Three months are enough for any Player-hero to return 
home from any location in Wilderland and leave them 
some time to be among his family and folk. Moreover, 
spending the colder months of a year as a Fellowship 
phase is a natural choice, as it will leave the warmer 
seasons open for the following Adventuring phase: a life 
in the Wild is an unforgiving one, and adventurers prefer 
to have a roof over their heads when the wind is howling 
and the land is buried in snow…
Lengthy Quests: If the company are on some epic quest 
that takes them from one end of Wilderland to another, 
then gameplay may not break down neatly into distinct 
individual adventures. In that case, consider running a 
Fellowship phase whenever any Player-hero gains a level. 
Structure & Location
A Fellowship phase lasts from a few days to one full 
season of game time, depending on the Loremaster’s 
structuring of the game. At the beginning of a Fellowship 
phase, the players must choose whether the company 
retires somewhere to spend the phase as a group or if they 
temporarily disband and each character returns home 
alone.
Once they are set upon a decision, they start taking 
individual turns to tell the Loremaster and the other 
players what they are going to do and where they are 
going to do it.
The players are free to spend the phase at any place they 
have already visited during the game. The Adventurer’s 
Map comes in useful here, especially if the players have 
updated the information on it and kept track of their 
journeys.
The route bringing the company or each individual player-
hero to their chosen destination is considered to take 
place ‘off stage’ without Travel checks and Journey Events,

--- PAGE 199 ---
199
The Fellowship Phase
unless the Loremaster or the players have a mind to play 
out the details. For the sake of veracity, Players should 
generally choose a place within a reasonable distance 
from the area where they were adventuring during the 
recent sessions of play, also taking into consideration how 
long the Fellowship phase is going to last and where and 
when they have agreed to meet up afterwards. 
Sanctuaries
A number of locations in Middle-earth are considered 
Sanctuaries; special safe places particularly suited to 
rest, recovery, and training, usually overseen by a host 
willing to welcome travellers. At the beginning of a 
game, the only place the Player-heroes may consider a 
Sanctuary is the town of Esgaroth on the Long Lake. 
Other locations may be opened as Sanctuaries by 
visiting them and choosing the Open New Sanctuary 
undertaking (see page 201) during the Fellowship 
Phase.
Sanctuaries make ideal starting and ending points 
for journeys, as places where heroes may be assured 
of rest, food and shelter and are a place to regain 
or replace lost heirlooms.  A successful company of 
adventurers would do well to explore and open as 
many sanctuaries as they can to aid in their travels. A 
sanctuary is often owned, or home to, a Patron. This 
can bring other additional benefits to a company. 
See the Loremaster's Guide for more information on 
Sanctuaries and Patrons. 
Examples of Sanctuaries include: Dale, Rivendell, 
Erebor, Rhosgobel, Beorn's Hall
The Company Retires to a Sanctuary
After a successful (or perhaps unsuccesful!) season of 
adventure, a company may decide to head to the closest 
Sanctuary, or may even find their adventure ends in a 
Sanctuary, where they chose to remain. 
Player-heroes in a Sanctuary dedicate their time to telling 
tales, listening to stories, eating good food and resting well. 
They may make new friends, and learn more about the 
world around them.
The Company Disbands Temporarily
When a company disbands temporarily, each player 
chooses the location where their character repairs to. 
Usually, heroes return home, as the player has decided 
that maybe the character needs to spend some time among 
their own folk, to refocus or meditate, or that they intend 
to develop their personal relationships at home.
Rest and Recovery
At the beginning of the Fellowship phase, all player-
heroes normally recover all their expended Hit Dice, all 
of their hit points, and remove all exhaustion. However, 
if a character is suffering from an unusual condition 
(poisoned, wounded by a dreadful weapon, under a 
curse, five levels of exhaustion), then that character 
recovers only half their expended Hit Dice, half their lost 
hit points, and removes only two levels of exhaustion. 
Further healing can be obtained with the Recovery 
undertaking.
Undertakings
Players are invited to exercise their creativity and find 
new and exciting ways to spend a Fellowship phase. 
Often, players need look no further than the recently 
concluded Adventuring phase, as the story that was 
just completed might have provided several leads worth 
following, like a new friendship to consolidate or a new 
sanctuary to be granted access to. Any activity that could 
have a lasting impact on the character can be considered 
an undertaking.
Normally, a player is allowed to choose one single activity 
for their character to undertake. A longer Fellowship 
phase might allow for up to two undertakings instead. 
If the Loremaster agrees, in the case of a longer pause a 
player can choose up to two different Fellowship phase 
undertakings (the player cannot choose to repeat the 
same activity twice).

--- PAGE 200 ---
200
Adventures in Middle-earth
Recovery
"Good," said Gandalf, "it is mending fast. You will soon 
be sound again. Elrond has cured you; he has tended you for 
days, ever since you were brought in."
Seriously worn heroes may need more rest and recovery 
than others. Heroes with high levels of exhaustion, or 
some conditions, such as Blinded or Deafened, can take 
time to heal from, as can some types of lingering injury 
and damage caused by certain poisons. A character so 
afflicted can take a Fellowship phase to recover by seeking 
care and advice from learned healers, visiting certain 
mystical places or perhaps even by simply lying in a cosy 
bed while someone brings soup.
At the end of such a Fellowship phase, all exhaustion levels 
are removed, all Hit Dice and hit points are recovered, and 
one condition is healed.
Training
"Go to the armouries of the Citadel", he said, "and get you 
there the livery and gear of the Tower."
Some Cultural Virtues offer a chance to change, improve 
or expand on how they work if a character spends an 
undertaking learning how to further utilise them. See the 
description of the Cultural Virtue for more about how this 
works.
Gain New Trait
Indeed, within a week, they were quite recovered, fitted out 
in fine cloth of their proper colours, with beards combed and 
trimmed, and proud steps. 
A Player-hero might choose to change something 
fundamental about them and alter their distinctive feature, 
speciality, hope or source of despair. Such changes can 
arise from events during the Adventuring phase or a player-
hero deciding the time has come to alter their perception 
of the world. This is a major undertaking requiring much 
soul searching, seeking the advice of the wise and making a 
concerted effort to make a lasting change to who they are. 
No check is needed to complete this undertaking; the 
player announces this is how they are spending the 
Fellowship phase, and at the end the change has occurred. 
The Loremaster should judge whether or not the change is 
viable, but should be lenient in allowing the player to direct 
their character’s evolution. 
It should be noted that even if Una the Unforgiving has 
chosen to change her Vengeful nature to embrace a more 
Honourable way of life, not everyone in Middle-earth will 
know, or even believe, that a change has occurred.
Heal Corruption
Merely to be there was a cure for weariness, fear and 
sadness. 
Heroes feel the burden of the Shadow weigh heavily upon 
their shoulders long after their adventures are over. Their 
minds remain bent on dark thoughts, and visions haunt 
them in their dreams, if not even during their waking 
hours. 
Those who fight the encroaching darkness can work on 
removing the taint of corruption within themselves. Player-
heroes belonging to different cultures resort to different 
methods to get rid of corruption: Dwarves usually turn

--- PAGE 201 ---
201
The Fellowship Phase
to the forge to burn their frustration smiting the red iron 
on the anvil; Hobbits dedicate themselves to a beloved 
activity, like gardening, painting or writing a diary; and 
Elves and Men generally create, play or recite poems and 
songs.
A Player-hero wishing to remove their corruption must 
make a DC 13 Wisdom (Insight) ability check. If successful, 
they remove 2 Shadow points. If their ability check results 
in a total of 25 or more, they remove 4 Shadow points. 
Permanent Shadow points gained when suffering from 
a bout of madness can never be healed. Player-heroes 
attempting to heal corruption in a Sanctuary make their 
ability check with advantage. 
If it suits a Player-hero’s personality, the Loremaster may 
allow the substitution of another ability, like a Charisma 
check with a musical instrument or a Strength test with 
blacksmithing tools.
Meet Patron
"I am looking for someone to share in an adventure that I 
am arranging, and it’s very difficult to find one."
A patron is usually a renowned or powerful personality, 
who may from time to time offer a company a purpose to 
go adventuring, often providing support of various kinds 
and counsel. Player-heroes may choose to meet a patron 
when they are spending their Fellowship phase in the 
location where the individual is to be found, if the patron 
is available for a meeting, in order to request their support 
or advice.
Figures worthy of being called patrons are often major 
characters in Middle-earth; the Loremaster has more 
details about how to go about gaining them as patrons. 
Open Sanctuary
"Hidden somewhere ahead of us is the fair valley of 
Rivendell, where Elrond lives in the Last Homely House."
In order to open a settlement as a Sanctuary, the company 
must already have established friendly relations with the 
residents and any leaders there during the Adventuring 
phase. Having done so, the whole party can spend a 
Fellowship phase at the settlement together meeting the 
residents and firmly establishing their welcome. From 
that point on, Player-heroes may treat the settlement as 
a Sanctuary, allowing them to take especially effective 
long rests there (see page 199), as well as restoring 
certain special abilities. The Loremaster's Guide has more 
information on Sanctuaries.
Receive Title
"I name you Elf-Friend; and may the stars shine upon the 
end of your road."
Most cultures grant a title to heroes, giving somewhat 
unkempt adventurers a bit more respectability in 
exchange for expectations of aid as needed. A Player-
hero who has performed appropriately valiant deeds 
during the Adventuring phase may, with the Loremaster’s 
permission, choose the Receive Title undertaking. 
Generally, a Player-hero will be granted a title by their 
own culture based on deeds performed and in recognition 
of a native child rising in the world. However, a foreign 
culture might also grant a title to a Player-hero who has 
performed grand heroics on their behalf. Over time, 
a character may eventually receive various titles from 
several different cultures. 
There are benefits as well as costs to having a title. First, 
Player-heroes with a title are regarded better by individuals 
from the culture that gave them the title than others of 
their people by two steps along the Cultural Attitudes 
Chart on page 193. 
For example, the Men of the Lake don’t know their 
“cousins” across Mirkwood well and regard the Woodmen 
in a Neutral way. If a Woodman was named a Burgess – he, 
specifically (and unsurprisingly) is regarded as a Favoured 
individual in social settings by the folk of Esgaroth.
Second, the Player-hero is granted either land or a dwelling 
in the community. The size and features of the land or 
house are proportionate to the character’s Standard of 
Living. Such a tract of land serves as a Sanctuary and also 
generates a modest 50 silver pennies a year in pocketable 
profits. This money is often in the form of crops or trade 
goods and the like, and the character must spend their 
Fellowship phase or pass by during the Adventuring phase 
to collect it. Uncollected money remains at the holding 
until retrieved.

--- PAGE 202 ---
202
Adventures in Middle-earth
Research Lore
…they pondered the storied and figured maps and books of 
lore that were in the House of Elrond
There is much history and ancient lore in Middle-earth. 
The Player-hero may consult mouldy manuscripts, private 
libraries or the minds of the Wise to search for an answer 
to a specific question. After completing this undertaking, 
the Player-hero may make a DC 15 Intelligence (History), 
(Nature) or (Lore) or (Riddle) ability check with advantage. 
If the check succeeds, the Loremaster will answer three of 
the player’s questions concerning a topic related to the 
skill used. If the check fails, the Player-hero will still learn 
three things, but one or two will prove false, cryptic or 
misleading.
Titles of the Wilderland Cultures
Culture
Title
Settlement
Benefit
Bardings
Thegn
Dale
A tract of land either in the Northern Dalelands or in the 
Upper or Nether Marches. 
Beornings
Thane
Old Ford
A farmstead anywhere inside the land of the Beornings.
Dúnedain
The Dúnedain do not honour adventurers themselves. Trusted allies are brought to the House of 
Elrond, and there may be given the blessing of Elf-friend.
Dwarves of 
the Lonely 
Mountains
The Dwarves, very secretive about everything that concerns their native customs, do not grant titles 
to adventurers not belonging to their culture. Thus, a non-Dwarven Player-hero may not choose the 
Receive Title undertaking for the Dwarven culture.
Elves of 
Mirkwood
Elf-Friend
Thranduil's Hall
The ‘Elf-friend’ title is not a title, but a rather a blessing, 
bestowed upon a hero who gained the trust of the Elves. 
Nevertheless, an Elf-friend would indeed be welcomed by 
the Elvenking, and given a comfortable room at Thranduil’s 
Halls. 
Hobbits of the 
Shire 
Hobbits do not like nor do they welcome adventurers. Should they ever be forced by circumstances to 
actually recognise the valour of a non-Hobbit Player-hero they might bestow upon him the honorary 
title of ‘Bounder’, and tolerate him to dwell east of the river, in a house of wood, brick or stone.
Men of Bree
Worthy
Bree
A house or small farm in Bree-land.
Men of the Lake
Burgess
Lake-town
A house owned by the town council.
Men of Minas 
Tirith
Guard
Minas Tirith
A house in the lowest circle of the city.
Riders of Rohan
Esquire
Edoras
Land in the Riddermark
Woodmen
Hero of the 
Woodmen
Among the 
Woodmen
A guest-house in Woodmen-town, a cottage in Rhosgobel or a 
tree-house in Woodland Hall.

--- PAGE 203 ---
Pre-generated Character Sheets

--- PAGE 204 ---
- Bardings -
Lifstan, son of Leiknir
Your father was a smith. When you were a child, 
the sound of the hammer ringing in his forge was 
as music to your ears. One day, when the city 
of Dale was finally rebuilt and the entrance to 
the Lonely Mountain opened once again, 
your father brought you to see the forges 
of the Mountain-folk. There, you have 
seen the work of the Dwarf-smiths of old, 
a treasure beyond what your imagination 
could dream up. 
From that day you haven’t stopped thinking about 
the vast hoards that lie unmolested in deep places 
beneath the mountains...
204

--- PAGE 205 ---
Strength
Dexterity
Constitution
Intelligence
Wisdom
Charisma
Shadow
Inspiration
Proficiency Bonus
____ Strength
____ Dexterity
____ Constitution
____ Intelligence
____ Wisdom
____ Corruption
____ Charisma
SAVING THROWS
____ Acrobatics (Dex)
____ Animal Handling (Wis)
____ Athletics (Str)
____ Deception (Cha)
____ History (Int)
____ Insight (Wis)
____ Intimidation (Cha)
____ Investigation (Int)
____ Lore (Int)
____ Medicine (Wis)
____ Nature (Int)
____ Perception (Wis)
____ Performance (Cha)
____ Persuasion (Cha)
____ Riddle (Int)
____ Shadow-lore (Int)
____ Sleight of Hand (Dex)
____ Stealth (Dex)
____ Survival (Wis)
____ Traditions (Int)
Skills
Passive Perception (wisdom)
Other proficiencies & languages
Armour Class
Initiative
Speed
Current Hit Points
Hit Point Maximum ____________________________
Temporary Hit 
Points
Hit Dice
Total _______________
Death Saves
Successes
Failures
Attacks
Name
Atk Bonus
Damage/Type
Equipment
G
S
C
Features, Traits, and Virtues
Character tRAITS
cHARACTER nAME
Standard of Living
Distinctive Quality
Speciality
Hope
Despair
cLASS & 
lEVEL
Culture
Back-
ground
Player 
name
Shadow
Weakness
Experience
Points
Lifstan son of Leiknir
Warrior 1
Barding
Seeker of 
the Lost
Lure of Power
0
Prosperous
15
+2
12
+1
13
+1
11
+0
8
-1
16
+3
+2
+4
+1
+5
+0
-1
+3
+1
-1
+4
+3
+0
+1
+5
+2
+2
-1
+0
-1
+3
+3
+0
+0
+1
+1
-1
+0
9
Proficiencies: All armour, shields, simple 
weapons, martial weapons.
Languages: You can speak, read, and write Dalish 
– an archaic version of the Common Speech.
Clear Eyed: You have proficiency in the Insight 
skill. (See page 33)
15 
(17 with shield; 
18 with shield 
and broadsword)
+1
30 feet
11
11
1d10 per Warrior 
level
	 Broadsword 	
+4 	
1d8+2 slashing
	 Short Bow* 	
+5	
1d6+1 piercing
*You can shoot your short bow 80 feet, or up to 
320 feet with disadvantage on the attack roll.
Archery. You gain a +2 bonus to attack rolls 
you make with ranged weapons. This benefit is 
included in your ranged weapon bonus.
Ring mail, shield, broadsword, short 
bow with a quiver of 20 arrows, 
fur-lined travelling cloak, travelling 
gear for the current season, bedroll, 
backpack, comfortable boots, rope 
and amulet of a raven’s feather.
32
Adventurous. You enjoy seeking out new 
challenges and experiences. 
Burglary. Finding what you seek often means 
finding a way into places where you’re not 
supposed to be.
I know that the Shadow will tremble the day we 
recover a lost relic.
I’m certain that when I find what I am looking for 
that it will be something that was better left alone. 
 Second Wind. On your turn, use a bonus action 
to regain hit points equal to 1d10 + your Warrior 
level. You must finish a short or long rest before 
you can use it again. (See page 92)
Lore of the Lost. When you hear about a new 
region or ruin for the first time, you probably know 
at least a bit of lore about it and where you can 
likely find even more information.(See page 140)
 Cultural Virtue: Swordmaster. You have 
learnt to fight defensively using your weapon 
to full advantage. When fighting with either a 
broadsword or a long sword, you gain a +1 bonus 
to your AC.
TM
Miserable
Permanent

--- PAGE 206 ---
- Beornings -
Beran of the Mountains
You were born into a family of shepherds and 
hunters near the eastern edge of the Misty 
Mountains. Since you were a child you felt 
a great fascination for the high and snowy 
peaks, and spent most of your time climbing 
and looking for new paths over the mountains. 
After you met Beorn and embraced his cause, 
you chose to protect any friendly traveller 
that finds himself journeying through the 
mountain passes in these times of growing 
peril.
206

--- PAGE 207 ---
Strength
Dexterity
Constitution
Intelligence
Wisdom
Inspiration
Proficiency Bonus
____ Strength
____ Dexterity
____ Constitution
____ Intelligence
____ Wisdom
____ Corruption
____ Charisma
SAVING THROWS
____ Acrobatics (Dex)
____ Animal Handling (Wis)
____ Athletics (Str)
____ Deception (Cha)
____ History (Int)
____ Insight (Wis)
____ Intimidation (Cha)
____ Investigation (Int)
____ Lore (Int)
____ Medicine (Wis)
____ Nature (Int)
____ Perception (Wis)
____ Performance (Cha)
____ Persuasion (Cha)
____ Riddle (Int)
____ Shadow-lore (Int)
____ Sleight of Hand (Dex)
____ Stealth (Dex)
____ Survival (Wis)
____ Traditions (Int)
Skills
Passive Perception (wisdom)
Other proficiencies & languages
Armour Class
Initiative
Speed
Current Hit Points
Hit Point Maximum ____________________________
Hit Dice
Total _______________
Death Saves
Successes
Failures
Attacks
Name
Atk Bonus
Damage/Type
Equipment
G
S
C
Features, Traits, and Virtues
Character tRAITS
cHARACTER nAME
Standard of Living
Distinctive Quality
Speciality
Hope
Despair
cLASS & 
lEVEL
Culture
Back-
ground
Player 
name
Shadow
Weakness
Experience
Points
Beran of the Mountains
Warden 1
Beorning
Loyal Servant 
Lure of Power
0
Martial
16
+3
14
+2
12
+1
10
+0
9
-1
14
+2
+2
+3
+4
+1
+0
-1
+4
+2
-1
+5
+2
+0
+1
+4
+0
+0
-1
+0
+1
+2
+2
+0
+0
+2
+2
+1
+2
11
Proficiencies: Light armour, shields, simple 
weapons, broadswords, long swords, and short 
swords.
Languages: You can speak the Vale of Anduin 
Tongue – an archaic version of the Common 
Speech, closely related to Dalish.
Angry: You have proficiency in the Intimidation 
skill. (See page 35)
14 
(16 with Shield)
+2
30 feet
9
9
1d8 per Warden 
level
	 Short Sword 	
+5 	
1d6+3 piercing
	 Dagger* 	
+5 	
1d4+3 piercing
*You can throw your dagger 20 feet, or up to 60 
feet with disadvantage on the attack roll.
**You can shoot your great bow 150 feet, or up to 
600 feet with disadvantage on the attack roll.
 
Brightly coloured travelling cloak, 
travelling gear for the current season, 
backpack, belt, dagger, boots, 
necklace of orc-teeth, short sword, 
great bow with a quiver of 20 arrows, 
leather corslet and shield.
14
Trusty. You are someone people know they can 
trust 
Enemy-lore. You focus much of your efforts 
against a single enemy, the one that vexes your 
master.
I would place myself in danger for a friend.
I know that when the agents of the Shadow come, I 
will be amongst the first to fall. 
Warden’s Gift. You can inspire others through 
stirring words, through music or by your presence 
alone. (See page 87)  
Ever Watchful. Wardens make a point of keeping 
up with the latest news both local and from afar, 
as well as making an effort to know the wise and 
the powerful. (See page 87)  
Inseparable. You are always close at hand when 
your master is concerned, though your presence is 
often ignored. (See page 121)  
Cultural Virtue: Night-goer. At night you can 
choose to slip into a dream-like state, and leave 
your body in spirit form to swiftly travel along 
the tracks made by animals across the length and 
breadth of Wilderland. (See pages 102-103)
	 Great Bow** 	
+2 	
1d8+2 piercing
TM
Charisma
Shadow
Temporary Hit 
Points
Miserable
Permanent

--- PAGE 208 ---
- Dwarves -
of the 
Lonely Mountain
   Beli
When you were a child, your father went 
north to find the hoard of an ancient Dragon 
and never returned. In his absence, you honed 
your skills preparing to follow him on the road to 
adventure and now you think the day has arrived to 
take up the challenge: you are clever, well-equipped 
and without fear - you are ready to go and seek what 
secret treasures are still hidden in the remote corners 
of the world.
208

--- PAGE 209 ---
Strength
Dexterity
Constitution
Intelligence
Wisdom
Inspiration
Proficiency Bonus
____ Strength
____ Dexterity
____ Constitution
____ Intelligence
____ Wisdom
____ Corruption
____ Charisma
SAVING THROWS
____ Acrobatics (Dex)
____ Animal Handling (Wis)
____ Athletics (Str)
____ Deception (Cha)
____ History (Int)
____ Insight (Wis)
____ Intimidation (Cha)
____ Investigation (Int)
____ Lore (Int)
____ Medicine (Wis)
____ Nature (Int)
____ Perception (Wis)
____ Performance (Cha)
____ Persuasion (Cha)
____ Riddle (Int)
____ Shadow-lore (Int)
____ Sleight of Hand (Dex)
____ Stealth (Dex)
____ Survival (Wis)
____ Traditions (Int)
Skills
Passive Perception (wisdom)
Other proficiencies & languages
Armour Class
Initiative
Speed
Current Hit Points
Hit Point Maximum ____________________________
Hit Dice
Total _______________
Death Saves
Successes
Failures
Attacks
Name
Atk Bonus
Damage/Type
Equipment
G
S
C
Features, Traits, and Virtues
Character tRAITS
cHARACTER nAME
Standard of Living
Distinctive Quality
Speciality
Hope
Despair
cLASS & 
lEVEL
Culture
Back-
ground
Origin
Shadow
Weakness
Experience
Points
Beli
Treasure Hunter 1
Dwarves of the 
Lonely Mountain
The Harrowed 
Dragon-sickness
0
Rich
12
+1
14
+2
17
+3
13
+1
10
+0
8
-1
+2
+1
+4
+3
+3
+0
-1
+2
+0
+3
-1
+1
+0
+3
+3
+3
+0
+1
+0
-1
-1
+5
+1
+4
+2
+0
+1
10
Proficiencies: Light armour, simple weapons, 
broadsword, short sword, and thieves’ tools.
Languages: You can speak, read, and write Dalish, 
which is the tongue of the Bardings, who speak an 
older version of the Common Tongue. You can also 
speak, read and write the secret language of your 
people, which has never been shared with any others.
Night Vision,  Dwarven Resilience, Dwarven 
Combat Training, Tool Proficiency, 
Stonecunning and Road Wisdom. (See page 40)
15 
+2
25 feet*
*speed is not 
reduced by 
heavy armour.
11
11
1d8 per Treasure 
Hunter level
	 Short Sword 	
+4 	
1d6+2 piercing
	 Dagger* 	
+4	
 1d4+2 piercing
*You can throw your dagger 20 feet, or up to 60 
feet with disadvantage on the attack roll.
**You can shoot your bow 80 feet, or up to 320 feet 
with disadvantage on the attack roll.
Sneak Attack. Beginning at 1st level, you know 
how to strike subtly and exploit a foe’s distraction. 
Once per turn, you can deal an extra 1d6 damage 
to one creature you hit with an attack if you have 
advantage on the attack roll. (See page 77)  
Leather jerkin, short sword, short 
bow with a quiver of 20 arrows, two 
daggers, fur-lined travelling cloak, 
travelling gear for the current season, 
bedroll, ornamented walking stick, 
backpack, comfortable boots, a gold 
coin from the hoard of Smaug the 
Magnificent, a fine beard comb and 
mirror. 
68
Cunning. Your sharp wit is a way in which you 
cope with the gravity of your burden.
Dark Secrets. You are certain that your dreams 
touch the Shadow. You are learning all that you 
can about it. 
I am destined to strike a mortal blow against the 
Shadow.
I believe my dreams are being fed by the Shadow; 
they are leading me to my doom.
Expertise. Your proficiency bonus is doubled 
whenever you make an ability check using 
Intimidation or Riddle. These benefits are included 
in your Intimidation skill and Riddle skill bonuses. 
(See page 77)
Foreknowledge. Your dreams often grant you 
riddles, verses and visions that not only directly 
aid you on your quest but also tangentially give 
you an insight into people and places that may 
only be peripherally related to your dream. (See 
page 129)   
Cultural Virtue: None. 
	 Short Bow** 	
+4	
 1d6+2 piercing 
Erebor
TM
Charisma
Shadow
Temporary Hit 
Points
Miserable
Permanent

--- PAGE 210 ---
- Elves -
of 
Mirkwood
Caranthiel
Many decades have passed since the last time you left the 
halls of your King to once again breathe the air of what used 
to be Greenwood the Great. In the hallowed silence of your 
underground dwelling you studied the lives of those who 
fought the darkness before your time, secretly hoping 
that you would return to see the Moon wane on a world 
already free from the Shadow. But your dreams 
were obviously just that, dreams. 
What was waiting for you was a place much 
darker than your King’s dusky palace, and it will 
take more than the red torch-light of your folk 
to cleanse Mirkwood once and for all. But you 
have resolved that you can be the light that 
chases away the shadows, and you will 
teach others how to do the same.
210

--- PAGE 211 ---
Strength
Dexterity
Constitution
Intelligence
Wisdom
Inspiration
Proficiency Bonus
____ Strength
____ Dexterity
____ Constitution
____ Intelligence
____ Wisdom
____ Corruption
____ Charisma
SAVING THROWS
____ Acrobatics (Dex)
____ Animal Handling (Wis)
____ Athletics (Str)
____ Deception (Cha)
____ History (Int)
____ Insight (Wis)
____ Intimidation (Cha)
____ Investigation (Int)
____ Lore (Int)
____ Medicine (Wis)
____ Nature (Int)
____ Perception (Wis)
____ Performance (Cha)
____ Persuasion (Cha)
____ Riddle (Int)
____ Shadow-lore (Int)
____ Sleight of Hand (Dex)
____ Stealth (Dex)
____ Survival (Wis)
____ Traditions (Int)
Skills
Passive Perception (wisdom)
Other proficiencies & languages
Armour Class
Initiative
Speed
Current Hit Points
Hit Point Maximum ____________________________
Hit Dice
Total _______________
Death Saves
Successes
Failures
Attacks
Name
Atk Bonus
Damage/Type
Equipment
G
S
C
Features, Traits, and Virtues
Character tRAITS
cHARACTER nAME
Standard of Living
Distinctive Quality
Speciality
Hope
Despair
cLASS & 
lEVEL
Culture
Back-
ground
Player 
name
Shadow
Weakness
Experience
Points
Caranthiel
Scholar 1
Elves of 
Mirkwood
Emissary of 
Your People
Lure of Secrets
0
Martial
10
+0
15
+2
14
+2
15
+2
13
+1
8
-1
+2
+0
+2
+2
+4
+3
-1
+2
+1
+0
-1
+4
+1
-1
+2
+4
+3
+2
+3
-1
+1
+2
+2
+2
+4
+1
+4
13
Proficiencies: Light armour, simple weapons, 
broadswords, short swords.
Languages: You can speak the old language of your 
people, the Woodland tongue, along with the ability 
to speak, read, and write Sindarin. You can also speak 
the Common Tongue.
The Eyes of Elves, A Whisper Through the 
Leaves. (See page 43)
13 
+2
30 feet
10
10
1d8 per Scholar 
level
	 Spear* 	
+2	
1d6+2 piercing† 
	 Dagger** 	
+4	
1d4+2 piercing
† (versatile 1d8+2)
* You can throw your spear 20 feet, or up to 60 feet 
with disadvantage on the attack roll.
** You can throw your dagger 20 feet, or up to 60 
feet with disadvantage on the attack roll.
***You can shoot your short bow 80 feet, or up to 
320 feet with disadvantage on the attack roll.
Leather jerkin, spear, short bow and 
quiver of 20 arrows, grey traveling 
cloak, traveling gear for the current 
season, backpack, belt dagger, boots, 
a white jewel on a chain of silver, 
healing kit and smith’s tools.
10
Secretive. Your thoughts are your own and you are 
very difficult to read.
Rhymes of Lore. Much knowledge is contained 
in the verses of poetry and song. You have learned 
to use the effect such compositions have on those 
with whom you negotiate to your advantage.
Only by joining forces can we hope to push back 
the Shadow.
The Shadow’s influence is too strong; my entreaties 
often fall on deaf ears.
Night Vision. Accustomed to the twilight forests and 
the night sky, you have superior vision in dark and 
dim conditions. You can see in dim light within 60 feet 
of you as if it were bright light, and in darkness as if it 
were dim light. You cannot see in complete darkness.
Dreams of Elder Days.  You have learnt to recover 
from your exertions even while engaging in a 
repetitive task, like walking, or rowing in a boat. 
When you finish a short rest, you automatically
recover a number of hit points equal to your 
constitution modifier without expending Hit Dice.
Hands of the Healer. You know how to treat 
wounds and cure illness and poison. You have a pool 
of healing tricks and techniques that replenishes 
when you take a short rest. (See page 64)   
News from Afar. You know many things that are 
hidden from most and tidings of distant events tend 
to reach you with astonishing speed. (See page 64)   
Tongues of Many Peoples. YYou know a little 
of many languages. You can hold a simple 
conversation in any of the tongues of Men or Elves, 
and know a few common phrases in the tongues 
of the other peoples – enough to offer a greeting, 
shout a warning, or insult someone  (See page 64)   
 Sigil of Your Master. As an emissary you are 
entitled to a certain consideration amongst foreign 
peoples. (See page 126) 
Cultural Virtue: None.
	 Short Bow*** 	
+4 	
1d6+2 piercing  
TM
Charisma
Shadow
Temporary Hit 
Points
Miserable
Permanent

--- PAGE 212 ---
- Hobbits -
of the
Shire
Trotter
You left your peaceful life in the Shire 
when you ran away to find Gandalf, 
the Conjuror, after he paid a visit to 
your family at your coming of age party. 
He tried to convince you to turn back, 
but as you stubbornly refused, he 
caught something in your eyes that 
convinced him to let you have your 
way. You spent many weeks with 
him, until he deemed you ready to 
find your own path. 
The dreams you had in the Shire 
are now your plans for the future: 
you want to light your broken-
stemmed pipe in the halls of 
Beorn the Shapeshifter and walk 
side by side with the Wizard 
Radagast in the fenced garth 
of Rhosgobel, you want to visit 
the royal palace of Dale and 
see the throne of the King under the 
Mountain.
212

--- PAGE 213 ---
Strength
Dexterity
Constitution
Intelligence
Wisdom
Inspiration
Proficiency Bonus
____ Strength
____ Dexterity
____ Constitution
____ Intelligence
____ Wisdom
____ Corruption
____ Charisma
SAVING THROWS
____ Acrobatics (Dex)
____ Animal Handling (Wis)
____ Athletics (Str)
____ Deception (Cha)
____ History (Int)
____ Insight (Wis)
____ Intimidation (Cha)
____ Investigation (Int)
____ Lore (Int)
____ Medicine (Wis)
____ Nature (Int)
____ Perception (Wis)
____ Performance (Cha)
____ Persuasion (Cha)
____ Riddle (Int)
____ Shadow-lore (Int)
____ Sleight of Hand (Dex)
____ Stealth (Dex)
____ Survival (Wis)
____ Traditions (Int)
Skills
Passive Perception (wisdom)
Other proficiencies & languages
Armour Class
Initiative
Speed
Current Hit Points
Hit Point Maximum ____________________________
Hit Dice
Total _______________
Death Saves
Successes
Failures
Attacks
Name
Atk Bonus
Damage/Type
Equipment
G
S
C
Features, Traits, and Virtues
Character tRAITS
cHARACTER nAME
Standard of Living
Distinctive Quality
Speciality
Hope
Despair
cLASS & 
lEVEL
Culture
Back-
ground
Family 
ties
Shadow
Weakness
Experience
Points
Trotter
Wanderer 1
Hobbits of 
the Shire
Lure of 
the Road
Wandering-
madness
0
Prosperous
8
-1
16
+3
15
+2
10
+0
13
+1
13
+1
+2
+1
+3
+4
+0
+1
+1
+3
+3
-1
+1
+0
+1
+1
+0
+0
+1
+0
+3
+1
+1
+0
+0
+3
+5
+3
+2
13
Proficiencies: Light armour, medium armour, 
shields, simple weapons, martial weapons, pipes, 
cartographer’s tools
Languages: You can speak, read, and write the Common 
Tongue. Whatever native tongue the Hobbits once had 
is all but gone, save for a few unique words such as 
“mathom” – an object one has no immediate use for, 
but for whatever reason, is unwilling to throw away.
Noble Pursuits, The Art of Disappearing. (See 
page 47)
+3
25 feet
12
12
1d10 per Wanderer 
level
	 Short sword 	
+5	
1d6-1 slashing
	 Short Bow* 	
+5	
1d6+3 piercing
*You can shoot your short bow 80 feet, or up to 
320 feet with disadvantage on the attack roll.
 
Corslet of mail, short sword, shield, 
short bow with a quiver of 20 arrows, 
fur-lined travelling cloak, travelling 
gear for the current season, bedroll, 
backpack, comfortable boots, a fine 
walking stick, pipe and pipeweed.
23
Keen-eyed. You are adept at spotting stormy 
weather and other dangers before they can affect 
you.
Story-telling. You’ve heard many stories while on 
the road and you have a gift for imparting them 
to others.
If you only live at home, then you have never truly 
lived.
I can never forge strong bonds; I’m always on the 
move.
Resilient. You have advantage on saving throws 
against Corruption.
Hobbit Nimbleness. You can move through the 
space of any creature who is at least one size larger 
than yours. 
Unobtrusive. You can attempt to hide even when 
you are obscured only by a creature that is at least 
one size larger than you.
Known Lands. Long years spent roaming over the 
land have given you vast amounts of knowledge 
about some of the regions of Middle-earth. You 
know the terrain of such lands like the backs 
of your hands and your lore can seem almost 
unnatural to any companions travelling with you. 
(See page 82)   
Ways of the Wild. You have a great deal of 
experience from travelling through the wilderness 
and surviving the various dangers that the wild 
constantly offers. (See page 82)   
Weather Lore. As a seasoned traveller you have 
an uncanny ability to predict the weather; (See 
page 133)  
Cultural Virtue: None. 
	   
Harfoot
15 
(17 with Shield)
TM
Charisma
Shadow
Temporary Hit 
Points
Miserable
Permanent

--- PAGE 214 ---
- Woodmen -
of
Wilderland
the Bride
You were born west of the Great River, in one of 
the villages nearest the mountains. You were 
scarcely fifteen when you first saw him 
who would become your groom, at a folk-
moot held at Mountain hall, in a time 
when the Orcs were sorely threatening 
your people. Only a few months later 
you moved across the river to be near 
him, as he was from the folk dwelling in 
the forest. As you waited for your wedding, you 
learned how to seek a prey among the trees, and 
your love for the hunt rivalled that for your future 
husband. 
One night, only a handful of days before your wedding-
day, he left with a company of men from the village, 
refusing to bring you with him and giving 
no explanations. Only his faithful hound 
returned, grievously wounded. 
When the elders of the village saw the 
claw marks on the hound they shook 
their heads, speaking of the dreaded Beast 
of Mirkwood...
214

--- PAGE 215 ---
Strength
Dexterity
Constitution
Intelligence
Wisdom
Inspiration
Proficiency Bonus
____ Strength
____ Dexterity
____ Constitution
____ Intelligence
____ Wisdom
____ Corruption
____ Charisma
SAVING THROWS
____ Acrobatics (Dex)
____ Animal Handling (Wis)
____ Athletics (Str)
____ Deception (Cha)
____ History (Int)
____ Insight (Wis)
____ Intimidation (Cha)
____ Investigation (Int)
____ Lore (Int)
____ Medicine (Wis)
____ Nature (Int)
____ Perception (Wis)
____ Performance (Cha)
____ Persuasion (Cha)
____ Riddle (Int)
____ Shadow-lore (Int)
____ Sleight of Hand (Dex)
____ Stealth (Dex)
____ Survival (Wis)
____ Traditions (Int)
Skills
Passive Perception (wisdom)
Other proficiencies & languages
Armour Class
Initiative
Speed
Current Hit Points
Hit Point Maximum ____________________________
Hit Dice
Total _______________
Death Saves
Successes
Failures
Attacks
Name
Atk Bonus
Damage/Type
Equipment
G
S
C
Features, Traits, and Virtues
Character tRAITS
cHARACTER nAME
Standard of Living
Distinctive Quality
Speciality
Hope
Despair
cLASS & 
lEVEL
Culture
Back-
ground
Player 
name
Shadow
Weakness
Experience
Points
The Bride
Slayer 1
Woodmen of 
Wilderland
Reluctant 
Adventurer
Curse of 
Vengeance
0
Frugal
15
+2
15
+2
13
+1
9
-1
11
+0
12
+1
+2
+4
+2
+3
-1
+2
+1
+2
+2
+2
+1
-1
+0
+3
-1
-1
+2
+1
+0
+1
+1
-1
-1
+2
+2
+2
-1
10
Proficiencies: Light armour, medium armour, 
shields, simple weapons, martial weapons.
Languages: You can speak the Vale of Anduin 
Tongue – an archaic version of the Common 
Speech, closely related to Dalish.
14 
(13 
unarmoured)
+2
30 feet
13
13
1d12 per Slayer 
level
	 Great Axe 	
+4 	
1d12+2 slashing
	 Dagger* 	
+4 	
1d4+2 piercing
*You can throw your dagger 20 feet, or up to 60 
feet with disadvantage on the attack roll.
 
Hide armour, great axe, traveling 
cloak, travelling gear for the current 
season, belt dagger and a hunting 
trap.
8
Grim. You can’t conceal your misery and it 
makes others uneasy around you.
Leech-craft. The company brought you along 
because you are the only one who can patch them 
up when they invariably run into trouble. 
I know that one day I shall rest by my fire again.
Fate hates me; I am constantly tossed into these 
dangerous situations in the hopes that the world 
will finally be rid of me!
Battle-fury. On your turn, you can enter a Battle-
fury as a bonus action. (See page 72)               
Unarmored Defence. While you are not wearing 
any armour, your Armour Class equals 10 + your 
Dexterity modifier + your Constitution modifier. 
You can use a shield (but not a great shield) and 
still gain this benefit. (See page 73)   
Pathetic and Bedraggled. You can take on the 
mien of a sad, desperate and despondent figure. 
As long as you are not threatening, strangers will 
take pity on you and give you a warm place to 
sleep for the night, hot food and a bit of comfort. 
(See page 138) 
Cultural Virtue: Hound of Mirkwood.  
  
TM
Charisma
Shadow
Temporary Hit 
Points
Miserable
Permanent

--- PAGE 216 ---
Strength
Dexterity
Constitution
Intelligence
Wisdom
Charisma
Shadow
Inspiration
Proficiency Bonus
____ Strength
____ Dexterity
____ Constitution
____ Intelligence
____ Wisdom
____ Corruption
____ Charisma
SAVING THROWS
____ Acrobatics (Dex)
____ Animal Handling (Wis)
____ Athletics (Str)
____ Deception (Cha)
____ History (Int)
____ Insight (Wis)
____ Intimidation (Cha)
____ Investigation (Int)
____ Lore (Int)
____ Medicine (Wis)
____ Nature (Int)
____ Perception (Wis)
____ Performance (Cha)
____ Persuasion (Cha)
____ Riddle (Int)
____ Shadow-lore (Int)
____ Sleight of Hand (Dex)
____ Stealth (Dex)
____ Survival (Wis)
____ Traditions (Int)
Skills
Passive Perception (wisdom)
Other proficiencies & languages
____________________________
____________________________
____________________________
____________________________
____________________________
____________________________
____________________________
___________________________
___________________________
___________________________
Armour Class
Initiative
Speed
Current Hit Points
Hit Point Maximum ____________________________
Temporary Hit 
Points
Hit Dice
Total _______________
Death Saves
Successes
Failures
Attacks
Name
Atk Bonus
Damage/Type
____________________________
____________________________
____________________________
____________________________
____________________________
____________________________
____________________________
___________________________
___________________________
Equipment
_____________________
_____________________
_____________________
_____________________
_____________________
_____________________
____________________
_____________________
____________________________
____________________________
____________________________
G
S
C
Features, Traits, and Virtues
____________________________
____________________________
____________________________
____________________________
____________________________
____________________________
____________________________
___________________________
____________________________
___________________________
___________________________
____________________________
___________________________
____________________________
____________________________
___________________________
___________________________
___________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
___________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
___________________________
Character tRAITS
____________________________
___________________________
___________________________
____________________________
___________________________
____________________________
____________________________
___________________________
___________________________
___________________________
____________________________
___________________________
___________________________
___________________________
___________________________
___________________________
____________________________
___________________________
___________________________
cHARACTER nAME
________________________________________________
________________________________________________
Standard of Living
Distinctive Quality
Speciality
Hope
Despair
cLASS & 
lEVEL
Culture
Back-
ground
Player 
name
Shadow
Weakness
Experience
Points
TM
Permanent
Miserable

--- PAGE 217 ---
cHARACTER nAME
________________________________________________
________________________________________________
Character Backstory
_____________________________
____________________________
_____________________________
____________________________
_____________________________
____________________________
____________________________
____________________________
____________________________
____________________________
_____________________________
_____________________________
____________________________
____________________________
_____________________________
____________________________
____________________________
____________________________
_____________________________
_____________________________
____________________________
_____________________________
____________________________
____________________________
____________________________
____________________________
____________________________
____________________________
___________________________
Age	
	
	
Height	
	
	
Weight
Eyes	
	
	
Skin	
	
	
Hair
Character Appearance
Allies and Patrons
_____________________________
_____________________________
_____________________________
_____________________________
_____________________________
______________________________
______________________________
_____________________________
_____________________________
______________________________
_____________________________
_____________________________
_____________________________
_____________________________
_____________________________
______________________________
______________________________
______________________________
_____________________________
_____________________________
_____________________________
_____________________________
_____________________________
_____________________________
_____________________________
Symbol
Name
Additional Features and Traits
_____________________________
_____________________________
_____________________________
_____________________________
_____________________________
______________________________
______________________________
_____________________________
_____________________________
______________________________
_____________________________
_____________________________
_____________________________
_____________________________
_____________________________
_____________________________
_____________________________
_____________________________
_____________________________
_____________________________
______________________________
______________________________
_____________________________
_____________________________
______________________________
_____________________________
_____________________________
_____________________________
_____________________________
_____________________________
Treasure
_____________________________
_____________________________
_____________________________
_____________________________
_____________________________
______________________________
______________________________
_____________________________
_____________________________
______________________________
_____________________________
_____________________________
_____________________________
_____________________________
_____________________________
_____________________________
______________________________
______________________________
_____________________________
_____________________________
______________________________
_____________________________
TM

--- PAGE 218 ---
A
Ability Score Increases. See specific culture 
entries 
Action Surge (Warrior), 92-93 
Adventuring Age. See specific culture 
entries.
Agent (Treasure Hunter), 79 
Air of Magic, 135 
An End Worthy of Song (Warden), 90 
Ancient Lore (Scholar), 68-69 
Ancient Mail from Gondor (Rider), 161 
Angry (Beorning), 35 
Anguish, 181 
Anticipate (warden), 89 
Armour, 149-151 
Armour, Dwarf-forged, 152 
Armoured Fury (Slayer), 75 
Arrival table. See under Journeys
Art of Disappearing (Hobbit), 108-109 
Athelas, 67, 154 
Audiences, 27, 190-195 
	
Reactions of, 195 
	
Seeking an audience, 194-195 
Avoidance (Treasure Hunter), 78 
Axe of Azanulbizar (Dwarf), 158 
B
Backgrounds, 25, 119-143
	
Doomed to Die, 122-124
	
Driven from Home, 124-126
	
Emissary of your People, 126-127
	
Fallen Scion, 127-129
	
Harrowed The, 129-131
	
Hunted by the Shadow, 131-133
	
Loyal Servant, 121-122
	
Lure of the Road, 133-134
	
Magician The, 135-136
	
Oathsworn, 136-138
	
Reluctant Adventurer, 138-140
	
Seeker of the Lost, 140-141
	
World Weary, 141-143 
	
World Weary: The Call of the Sea (Elves 
Only), 143 
Balanced (Warrior), 96 
Baleful (Warrior), 96 
Bane (Wanderer), 85 
Banner of the House of Anárion (Man of 
Minas Tirith), 160
Bardings, 12, 32-33
	
Heirlooms, 156-157 
	
Names, 33 
	
Standard of Living, 33 
	
Traits, 33 
	
Virtues, 101-102 
Battle-fury (Slayer), 72 
Bearded Axe (Woodman), 161
Beornings, 13, 34-35
	
Heirlooms, 157 
	
Land of, 13
	
Names, 35 
	
Standard of Living, 35 
	
Traits, 35 
	
Virtues, 102-103
Big and the Little The (Bree-man), 110 
Birds & Beasts (Scholar), 69 
Birthright (Barding), 101 
Bitter (Warrior), 96 
Bitter Spear (Elf), 159 
Black Mist (Slayer), 73 
Blight Ward (Wanderer), 84 
Blighted Places, 181-182 
Born to the Saddle (Rider), 114 
Bounder (Warden), 90 
Bow of the North Downs (Hobbit), 159 
Bowman of the Guild (Lakeman), 110 
Brave at a Pinch (Hobbit), 109 
Brazen Armour (Lakeman), 160
Break Resolve (warden), 90 
Bree, 18, 19, 48-49, 160 
Broken Spells (Dwarf), 105-106 
Brothers to Bears (Beorning), 102 
Burglar (Treasure Hunter), 80
C
Campfire Tales (Warden), 88 
Captain of Gondor (Man of Minas Tirith), 112 
Carrock, 13, 14, 34 
Ceaseless Guard (Warden), 90 
Character Creation, 24-26 
Character Sheet, 216-217 
Characteristics suggested. See specific 
background entries 
Classes, 25, 61-96 
Clear Eyed (Barding), 33 
Coins, 146 
Common Speech, Common Tongue, or 
Westron. See languages 
Compelling Words (Treasure Hunter), 79 
Copper Coins, 146 
Corruption, 26
	
Consequences of, 183-185 
	
Degeneration, 184-185 
	
Healing from, 200-201 
	
Sources of, 180-183 
Counsellor (Warden), 88-89 
Creature of Stone and Steel A (Warden), 90 
Crossroad Glance (Men of Bree), 49 
Cultural Attitudes, 192-194 
	
Starting Attitudes, 193
Cultural Descriptions, 30 
Cultural Heirloom (Open Virtue), 100 
Cultural Heirlooms, 156-161 
Cultural Virtues, 101-117 See also specific 
culture entries 
Cultures, 25, 29-58
	
Choosing a Culture, 30 
Cunning Action (Treasure Hunter), 77 
Curse of Vengeance, 186
D
Dale, 10, 12, 32, 50, 61 
Dalish fireworks, 154 
Dalish Longbow (Barding), 156 
Dalish, 33, 35, 40, 51, 58 See also 
languages 
Dark Foreboding, 123 
Dark Knowledge (Scholar), 69 
Dauntless (Warden), 88 
Dauntless Guardians (Dúnedain), 103-104 
Deadly Archery (Elf), 107 
Deadly Foe (Wanderer), 84 
Deep Knowledge (Scholar), 70 
218
- Index -

--- PAGE 219 ---
Defence Against the Shadow (Wanderer), 85 
Defender of the Fallen (Warrior), 93 
Degeneration. See under Corruption
Despair. See specific background entries
Desperate Courage (Bree-man), 109-110 
Discourse (Warden), 89 
Distinctive Qualities. See specific 
Background entries 
Distraction (Warden), 88
Doomed to Die. See under Backgrounds 
Dour-handed (Open Virtue), 100 
Dragon-sickness, 186 
Dreams of Elder Days (Elf), 107 
Driven from Home. See under 
Backgrounds 
Dúnedain, 19, 36-37
	
Heirlooms, 157-158 
	
Names, 37 
	
Standard of Living, 37 
	
Traits, 37 
	
Virtues, 103-105
Durin’s Way (Dwarf), 106 
Dwarves of the Lonely Mountain, 14, 38-40
	
Heirlooms, 158 
	
Names, 39 
	
Standard of Living, 39 
	
Traits, 40 
	
Virtues, 105-106 
Dwarf-wrought Hauberk (Dwarf), 158 
Dwarven Combat Training (Dwarf), 40 
Dwarven Resilience (Dwarf), 40 
Dwarven Toughness (Dwarf), 40 
Dwarven toys, 154
E
Elves of Mirkwood, 14, 42-43
	
Heirlooms, 159 
	
Names, 43 
	
Standard of Living, 43 
	
Traits, 43 
	
Virtues, 107-108 
Elf-lights (Elf), 108
Elusive (Treasure Hunter), 78 
Elvish Dreams (Elf), 43 
Embarkation. See under Journeys 
Embassy (Warden), 89 
Emissary of your People. See under 
Backgrounds 
Enchanted Sleep (Elf), 108 
Endurance of the Dúnedain (Dúnedain), 104 
Enduring (Warrior), 96 
Eorlingas. See Riders of Rohan 
Equipment, 145-161 
	
List of, 153 
	
Obtaining ,146-147 
Erebor, 14, 38, 40 
Eriador, 18, 19, 36 
Esgaroth. See Lake-town
Esquire, 114 
Ever Watchful (Warden), 87 
Exit Strategy (Treasure Hunter), 79 
Expertise (Treasure Hunter), 77 
Expertise (Open Virtue), 100 
Eyes of Elves The (Elf), 43
F
Fair Shot (Hobbit), 109 
Fallen Scion. See under Backgrounds
Fallowhide, 47 See also Hobbits of the Shire 
Famed Protector (Warrior), 95 
Feathered Armour (Woodman), 161 
features. See specific Background entries 
Fell-handed (Open Virtue), 100
Fellowship Phase, 27, 196-202 
	
How it Works, 198-199 
	
Rest and Recovery, 199 
	
Undertakings, 199-202 
Fierce Shot (Barding), 101 
Fighting Style (Wanderer), 83 
Fighting Style (Warrior), 92 
Filch (Treasure Hunter), 80 
Foe-Hammer (slayer), 75 
Food, drink, and lodging, 156
Force of Will (Warrior), 96 
Foreknowledge, 129-130 
Foresight of their Kindred (Dúnedain), 104 
Fragrant Weeds (Woodman), 115-116 
Friend to All (Scholar), 68 
Friendly and Inquisitive (Bree-man), 110 
Frugal Adventurers, 147-148
G
Gain New Trait (Undertaking), 200 
Gatekeeper’s Lantern (Bree-man), 159-160 
Giant-slaying Spear (Beorning), 157 
Glinting Spear (Rider), 161 
Gold Pieces, 146 
Great Among the Wise (Scholar), 66 
Great Strength (Beorning), 102 
Greenwood the Great. See Mirkwood
Guard of the Tower (Man of Minas Tirith), 113 
Guardian (Warden), 90 
Guide, 165 
Guild Member (Warrior), 96
H
Habits of the Wise (Scholar), 66 
Hagweed, 67, 154-155 
Hammerhand (Slayer), 75 
Hands of a Healer (Scholar), 64 
Harfoot, 47 See also Hobbits of the Shire 
Harrowed The. See under Backgrounds 
Harrowed: Storyteller, 131 
Heal Corruption (Undertaking), 200-201 
Healer’s Staunching Song (Scholar), 68 
Healing Herbs (Scholar), 67-68 
Healing Lores (Scholar), 67 
Heirloom of Elder Days (Dúnedain), 157 
Helm of Awe (Dwarf), 158 
Herald (Warden), 90 
Herbal Remedies (Woodman), 115-116 
Herbs, 154-155 
Hidden Paths (Scholar), 66 
Hide in Plain Sight (Wanderer), 84 
Hide in Shadows (Treasure Hunter), 80 
Hobbit Elusiveness (Hobbit), 47 
Hobbit Nimbleness (Hobbit), 47
Hobbits of the Shire, 18, 45-47 
	
Heirlooms, 159 
	
Names, 46
	
Standard of Living, 46 
	
Traits, 46-47 
	
Virtues, 108-109 
Hooped and Hasped (Slayer), 75 
Hope Unlooked-For (Scholar), 66
Hope. See specific Background entries
Horn of Minas Arnor (Man of Minas 
Tirith), 161 
Horns Wildly Blowing (Slayer), 74 
Horse Lords (Rider), 56 
Horse-archery (Rider), 114 
219

--- PAGE 220 ---
Horsetailed Helm (Rider), 161 
Hound of Mirkwood (Woodman), 116 
House of the Healer (Scholar), 68 
Household Esquire (Rider), 114 
Hunted by the Shadow. See under 
Backgrounds 
Hunter of Beasts (Wanderer), 84-85 
Hunter of Shadow’s (Wanderer), 85 
Hunter, 165 
Hunter's Resolve A (Woodman), 115 
Hunter’s Blessing (Wanderer), 85
I
Improved Healing (Scholar), 67 
Indomitable (Warrior), 93 
Indomitable Might (Slayer), 74 
Infamous (Warrior), 96 
Infamous, 124 
Inseparable, 121 
Inspiration (Warrior), 94 
Intelligence, 27 
	
Lore, 27 
	
Riddle, 27 
	
Shadow-lore, 27 
	
Traditions, 27 
Intimidating Presence (Slayer), 74 
Iron Hills, 40
J
Jack of All Trades (Warden), 87 
Journeys, 26, 162-177
	
Arrival Phase, 174-175 
	
Arrival Table, 175 
	
Challenges, 168 
	
Determining Peril Rating, 165-166
	
Embarkation, 165-168 
	
Embarkation Table, 167-168
	
Events and Task Rolls, 168-174
	
Events Table, 169-172 
	
Ponies and Boats, 166 
	
Rules Summary, 164
	
Tasks, 165 
	
Terrain Difficulty, 176 
	
Terrain Types, 165-166 
	
Tracking Time, 176 
	
Travel Speed, 176 
K
Keening Bog-stone (Lakeman), 160 
King's Guard (Rider), 114-115 
King’s Blade (Hobbit), 159 
King’s Men (Barding), 101 
Kingcup, 67, 155 
Knight (Warrior), 93 
Knight’s Strike (Warrior), 95 
Known Lands (Wanderer), 82
L
Lake-town, 16, 50 
Languages, 31 See also specific culture 
entries 
Lethal (Warrior), 96
Light When All Other Lights Go Out A 
(Warden), 88 
Long Reach (Man of Minas Tirith), 113 
Look-out, 165 
Lore (skill). See under Intelligence 
Lore of Númenor (Dúnedain), 37 
Lore of the Lost, 140 
Lost Scion: Black Shield, 129 
Loyal Servant. See under Backgrounds
Luck-winner (Treasure Hunter), 78 
Lucky Armour (Hobbit), 159 
Lure of Power, 187 
Lure of Secrets, 187 
Lure of the Road. See under Backgrounds
M
Madness, 188 
	
Bouts of 183-184 
Magician The. See under Backgrounds
Magician: Folk Healer, 136 
Many Foes (Man of Minas Tirith), 113 
Marks of Honour (Warrior), 94 
Martial Adventurers, 148 
Martial Archetype (Warrior), 93 
Master Healer (Scholar), 67-68 
Master Hunter (Wanderer), 84 
Master of Doom (Rider), 115 
Master Scholar (Scholar), 68 
Masteries (Warrior), 96 
Mattock, 152 
Meals, 156 
Meet Patron (undertaking), 201
Men of Bree, 18, 48-49
	
Heirlooms, 159-160 
	
Names, 49 
	
Standard of Living, 49 
	
Traits, 49 
	
Virtues, 109-110 
Men of Minas Tirith (or Gondor), 20, 52-53 
	
Heirlooms, 160-161 
	
Names, 53 
	
Standard of Living, 53 
	
Traits, 53 
	
Virtues, 112-113 
Men of the Lake, 15, 50-51
	
Heirlooms, 160 
	
Names, 51 
	
Standard of Living, 51 
	
Traits, 51 
	
Virtues, 110-112 
Merchant Prince (Lakeman), 111 
Mighty Oath, 137 
Mighty Spear-Throw (Slayer), 74 
Minas Tirith, 21, 52 
Minstrel’s Tales (Warrior), 94 
Mirkwood, 14, 42, 57 
Misdeeds, 182 
Miserable Condition, 183 
Mortal Wound (Slayer), 73 
Mounted Combat (Slayer), 74
N
Natural Born Traders (Men of the Lake), 51
Natural Watchfulness (Wanderer), 83 
Natural Watchfulness (Woodman), 117 
Natural World (Scholar), 69 
News from Afar (Scholar), 64 
Night Vision (Dwarf), 40 
Night Vision (Elf), 43 
Night Vision (Treasure Hunter), 77 
Night-goer (Beorning), 102-103 
No Weariness, Nor Endless Barren Miles 
(Warden), 88 
Noble Armour (Beorning), 157 
Noble Bearing, 127-128 
Noble Pursuits (Hobbit), 47 
Northmen Great House, 149 
Númenórean Arrows (Dúnedain), 158
220

--- PAGE 221 ---
O
Oathsworn. See under Backgrounds
Obfuscation (Treasure Hunter), 80 
Officer (Warrior), 94-95 
Old Enemies (Warrior), 96 
Old Hatred (Dwarf), 106 
Old Songs and Children’s Tales (Rider), 115 
Onward into Battle (Man of Minas Tirith), 112 
Open Sanctuary (Undertaking), 201 
Out of Memory and Old Tales (Bree-man), 110 
Over Dangerous Leagues (Man of Minas 
Tirith), 112 
P
Page, 111 
Path of Wisdom The (Scholar), 65 
Pathetic and Bedraggled, 138-139 
Physician (Scholar), 66
Pierced By Many Arrows (Slayer), 74 
Piercing Sight (Man of Minas Tirith), 113 
Pipe of the Prancing Pony (Bree-man), 160 
Pipe, 156, 160 
Pipeweed, 156 
Poison Remedies (Woodman), 116 
Ponies and Boats. See under Journeys
Poor Adventurers, 147 
Porter, 111 
Prancing Pony The, 19, 48, 160 
Pre-gen Characters, 203-215 
Prosperous Adventurers, 148-149 
Proud Heritage (Men of Minas Tirith), 53 
Q
Quenya. See Languages
Quiet as Quiet (Treasure Hunter), 78
R
Raised in the Wild (Dúnedain), 37 
Rangers of the North, 18, 19, 36-37, 49, 104 
Ravens of the Mountain (Dwarf), 106 
Receive title (Undertaking), 201-202 
Reckless Attack (Slayer), 73 
Recovery (Undertaking), 200 
Reedmace, 67, 155 
Relief from Long Burdens (Scholar), 68 
Reluctant Adventurer. See under 
Backgrounds 
Research Lore (Undertaking), 202 
Resilient (Hobbit), 47 
Reward (Warrior), 94 
Rich Adventurers, 149 
Riddermark. See Rohan
Riddle (skill). See under Intelligence 
Riddling Words (Treasure Hunter), 79 
Rider The (Slayer), 74 
Riders of Rohan, 20, 54-56
	
Heirlooms, 161 
	
Names, 55 
	
Standard of Living, 55-56 
	
Traits, 56 
	
Virtues, 114-115
Road Wisdom (Dwarf), 40 
Rohan, 20, 54 
Rohirrim. See Riders of Rohan
Royalty Revealed (Dúnedain), 104-105 
Rumour of the Earth (Wanderer), 83 
Run to Ground (Wanderer), 85 
Runes (Scholar), 69-70 
S
Sacrifice (Warrior), 95 
Sanctuaries, 199 
	
Open a Sanctuary, 201
Scholar, 63-70
Scholar Specialties, 67-70 
Scout, 165 
Scrivener, 111 
Sea Dreams, 143 
Seasoned Connections, 141-142 
Second Wind (Warrior), 92 
Secret Lores (Scholar), 68 
Secrets Gleaned (Treasure Hunter), 79 
Secrets on the Wind (Wanderer), 84
See the Unseen (Dúnedain), 104 
Seeker of the Lost. See under Backgrounds 
Seen and Unseen (Scholar), 68 
Serpent Scimitar (Lakeman), 160 
Servant, 111 
Servants of the Enemy (Wanderer), 85 
Shadow Bane (Elf), 107 
Shadow Killer (Wanderer), 85 
Shadow of my Pockets The (Treasure 
Hunter), 80 
Shadow of the Past (Scholar), 66 
Shadow The, 21, 57, 178-188 
	
Succumbing to, 188 
Shadow weakness, 184, 185-188 
	
Scholar, 64 
	
Slayer, 72 
	
Treasure Hunter, 76 
	
Wanderer, 81 
	
Warden, 87 
	
Warrior, 92 
Shadow-lore (skill). See under Intelligence 
Shadow-thorn, 67, 155 
Shepherds-bow (Woodman), 161 
Shield of the Citadel (Man of Minas 
Tirith), 160 
Shield of the First Men (Bree-man), 160 
Shield-fence (Man of Minas Tirith), 113 
Shield-fighting (Lakeman), 111 
Shield-raising (Rider), 114 
Shire The, 18 
Sigil of Your Master, 126
Silver Pennies, 146 
Sindarin (or Woodland tongue), 37, 43, 
53, 56 See also Languages 
size. See specific culture entries
skill proficiencies. See specific Background 
entries 
Skills New, 27 
Skin-coat (Beorning), 103 
Slayer Paths, 74-75 
Slayer, 71-75 
Slippery Mind (Treasure Hunter), 78 
Small Folk (Hobbit), 109 
Sneak Attack (Treasure Hunter), 77 
Softer Underneath (Scholar), 68 
Songs of Slaying (Warden), 90 
Specialties. See specific class entries
Speakers The (Elf), 107 
Spear of King Bladorthin (Barding), 156 
Spearman’s Shield (Elf), 159 
Specialties. See specific Background entries
Speed. See specific culture entries
Spells of Opening and Shutting (Dwarf), 105 
Spells of Prohibition and Exclusion 
(Dwarf), 105 
Spells of Secrecy (Dwarf), 105-106 
Spirit of Fire (Warden), 88 
Splintered Spears & Shattered Shields 
221

--- PAGE 222 ---
(Slayer), 75 
Splitting Axe (Beorning), 157 
Stand Against the Tide (Wanderer), 85 
Standards of Living, 31, 147 See also 
specific culture entries
Star of the Dúnedain (Dúnedain), 157-158 
Staunching Song of the Woodmen 
(Woodman), 117 
Sterner than Steel (Dúnedain), 105
Stiff Neck of Dwarves The (Dwarf), 106 
Stinging Arrow (Elf), 108 
Stone Cutting (Dwarf), 40 
Stoor, 47 See also Hobbits of the Shire
Strength Greater Than Any Warrior’s 
Hand (Slayer), 74 
Strength of Will (Dúnedain), 104 
Stroke of Luck (Treasure Hunter), 78 
Student of Old Lore (Hobbit), 47 
Sturdy (Open Virtue), 100-101 
Style Focus (Warrior), 95 
Swift Shot (Wanderer), 84 
Sword and Spear (Rider), 115 
Swordmaster (Barding), 101 
Sworn Defender (Warrior), 93-94
T
Tainted Treasure, 183 
Talented (Warden), 88 
Terrain. See under Journeys
There Many Foes He Fought (Slayer), 74 
Titles, 202 
Tongues of Many Peoples (Scholar), 64 
Tool for War (Dwarf), 40 
Tools of War The (Elf), 43 
Tools, 156 
Tough in the Fibre (Hobbit), 109 
Tower Shields of Dale The (Barding), 157 
Tracker (Wanderer), 84 
Tracking Time. See under Journeys
Trackless Steps (Wanderer), 83-84 
Trader’s Savvy (Lakeman), 111 
Traditions (skill). See under Intelligence
Training (Undertaking), 200 
Travel Speed. See under Journeys
Traveller’s Blessing (Bree-man), 110 
Travelling Gear, 154 
Treasure Hunter Archetypes, 79-80 
Treasure Hunter, 76-80 
Treasure Lore (Treasure Hunter), 80 
Troubling to the Wise, 131 
Twice-baked Honey-cakes (Beorning), 103
U
Unarmoured Defence (Slayer), 73 
Unbreakable Will (Wanderer), 85 
Uncanny Dodge (Treasure Hunter), 78 
Uncanny Dodge (Wanderer), 85 
Undertakings, 199-202 
Unflagging (Wanderer), 84 
Unobtrusive (Hobbit), 47 
Unyielding Guard (Warden), 90
V
Vale of Anduin Tongue, 35, 56, 58 See also 
Languages 
Vanish (Wanderer), 84 
Vicious (Warrior), 96 
Vigilant Senses (Wlayer), 73 
Virtues, 26, 99-117 
	
Cultural, 101-117 See also specific 
culture entries 
	
Open, 100-101 
Volley (Wanderer), 85
W
Wanderer Archetypes, 84-85 
Wanderer, 81-85
Wandering-madness, 188 
Warden Expression (Warden), 88 
Warden Expressions, 88-90 
Warden, 86-90 
Warden’s Gift (Warden), 87 
Warrior Archetypes, 93-96 
Warrior, 91-96 
Wary (Treasure Hunter), 80 
Water Legs (Lakeman), 112 
Water-lily, 68, 155 
Ways of the Wild (Wanderer), 82-83 
Weaponmaster (Warrior), 95 
Weaponmaster’s Challenge (Warrior), 96 
Weapons of the Enemy The (Scholar), 68 
Weapons, 149, 151-152 
Weapons, Dwarf-Forged, 152 
Weather-lore, 133 
Webs of Deceit (Scholar), 65 
Westron, Common Speech, or Common 
Tongue. See Languages 
Whirlwind Attack (Wanderer), 85 
Whisper Through the Leaves A (Elf), 43 
Wilderland, 8, 10, 177 
Wine, 156 
Woeful Foresight (Barding), 101-102 
Wood-Elf Magic (Elf), 108 
Woodcrafty (Woodmen of Wilderland), 58 
Woodland Bow (Elf), 159 
Woodland Realm, The, 15 
Woodland tongue. See Sindarin and 
Languages
Woodmen of Wilderland, 16, 57-58
	
Names, 58 
	
Standard of living, 58 
	
Traits, 58 
	
Heirlooms, 161
	
Land of, 17 
	
Virtues, 115-117 
Words of Command (Scholar), 70 
Words Unspoken (Scholar), 66 
Works of Elder Days (Scholar), 70 
World Weary. See under Backgrounds
World Weary: The Call of the Sea (Elves 
Only). See under Backgrounds 
Worthy Counsel (Warden), 89 
Wraith Bane (Dúnedain), 104 
Year 2946, 10-11 
222

--- PAGE 223 ---
Rules Summaries
Journeys (page 162)
• 
	Players assign tasks and plan route (page 165).
• 
Loremaster determines Peril Rating of the journey 
(pages 165 – 166).
• 
The Guide makes an Embarkation Roll: d12 + the 
Guide’s Survival proficiency bonus + half their 
Wisdom bonus - the Peril Rating (page 165).
• 
The Loremaster either relays the result of table on page 
167, or optionally hints at it.
• 
Determine the number of Journey Events:
°°
	Short Journey (1-15 hexes on the Loremaster’s 
Map): 1d2 for number of challenges.
°°
	Medium Journey (16-40 hexes on the Loremaster’s 
Map): 1d2+1 for number of 	challenges.
°°
	Long Journey (41+ hexes on the Loremaster’s 
Map): 1d3+2 for number of challenges.
• 
	Journey events are created by rolling a d12, potentially 
modified by the Embarkation result (page 169).
• 
Events are played through, noting down any mechanical 
results for reference.
• 
	Arrival roll is made, results are applied (page 175).
 
Audiences (page 190)
• 
Check starting attitude of the Audience subject using 
the table on page 193.
• 
One member of the company must make an Intelligence 
(Traditions) check at DC15 to introduce the group. A 
hero’s culture, Standard of Living and reputation can 
all influence how they are received.
• 
Consult the table on page 195 – if the check is successful 
use the indicated DC. If it is failed use one step lower. 
Corruption (page 178)
• 
Player-heroes gain Shadow points based on exposure 
to Anguish (page 181), Blighted Lands (page 181), 
Misdeeds (page 183) or Tainted Treasure (page 184). 
• 
In some circumstances, Player-heroes may make a 
Wisdom saving throw to avoid a Shadow point. In 
others there is no save (noted on the tables from page 
181 onwards).
• 
When a Player-hero’s Shadow point total exceeds 
their Wisdom score, they have been made Miserable 
(page 182).
• 
When a Player-hero whose Shadow point total exceeds 
their Wisdom rolls equal or less than the difference 
between their Shadow point total and their Wisdom 
while making an ability check, attack roll or saving 
throw, they experience a bout of madness (page 182).
For example, a Player-hero with Wisdom 10, and 15 
Shadow points, suffers a bout of madness when they roll 
1 – 5 while making an ability check, attack roll or saving 
throw.  If they gain another point of Shadow the bout is 
triggered on a roll of 1 – 6, and so on (page 183).
• 
During a bout of madness the Loremaster controls the 
Player-hero (See page 184).
• 
After a bout of madness, Shadow points are reset and 
one point of permanent Shadow is gained (See page 184). 
• 
The Player-hero gains a Shadow Weakness flaw (See 
page 184).
Undertakings During 
the Fellowship Phase (page 196)
In a standard Fellowship Phase players choose one activity:
• 
Recovery 	
(page 200)
• 
Training 	
(page 200)
• 
Gain New Trait 	
(page 200)
• 
Heal Corruption 	
(page 200)
• 
Meet Patron 	
(page 201)
• 
Open Sanctuary 	
(page 201)
• 
Receive Title 	
(page 201)
• 
Research Lore 	
(page 202)
223

--- PAGE 224 ---
OPEN GAME LICENSE Version 1.0a 
The following text is the property of Wizards of the Coast, Inc. and 
is Copyright 2000 Wizards of the Coast, Inc ("Wizards"). All Rights 
Reserved. 1. Definitions: (a)"Contributors" means the 
copyright and/or trademark owners who have contributed Open 
Game Content; (b)"Derivative Material" means copyrighted 
material including derivative works and translations (including 
into other computer languages), potation, modification, 
correction, addition, extension, upgrade, improvement, 
compilation, abridgment or other form in which an existing work 
may be recast, transformed or adapted; (c) "Distribute" means to 
reproduce, license, rent, lease, sell, broadcast, publicly display, 
transmit or otherwise distribute; (d)"Open Game Content" means 
the game mechanic and includes the methods, procedures, 
processes and routines to the extent such content does not embody 
the Product Identity and is an enhancement over the prior art and 
any additional content clearly identified as Open Game Content 
by the Contributor, and means any work covered by this License, 
including translations and derivative works under copyright law, 
but specifically excludes Product Identity. (e) "Product Identity" 
means product and product line names, logos and identifying 
marks including trade dress; artifacts; creatures characters; 
stories, storylines, plots, thematic elements, dialogue, incidents, 
language, artwork, symbols, designs, depictions, likenesses, 
formats, poses, concepts, themes and graphic, photographic and 
other visual or audio representations; names and descriptions of 
characters, spells, enchantments, personalities, teams, personas, 
likenesses and special abilities; places, locations, environments, 
creatures, equipment, magical or supernatural abilities or effects, 
logos, symbols, or graphic designs; and any other trademark or 
registered trademark clearly identified as Product identity by the 
owner of the Product Identity, and which specifically excludes the 
Open Game Content; (f) "Trademark" means the logos, names, 
mark, sign, motto, designs that are  used by a Contributor to 
identify itself or its products or the associated products contributed 
to the Open Game License by the Contributor (g) "Use", "Used" 
or "Using" means to use, Distribute, copy, edit, format, modify, 
translate and otherwise create Derivative Material of Open Game 
Content. (h) "You" or "Your" means the licensee in terms of this 
agreement. 
2. The License: This License applies to any Open Game Content 
that contains a notice indicating that the Open Game Content 
may only be Used under and in terms of this License. You must 
affix such a notice to any Open Game Content that you Use. No 
terms may be added to or subtracted from this License except 
as described by the License itself. No other terms or conditions 
may be applied to any Open Game Content distributed using this 
License. 
3.Offer and Acceptance: By Using the Open Game Content You 
indicate Your acceptance of the terms of this License. 
4. Grant and Consideration: In consideration for agreeing to use 
this License, the Contributors grant You a perpetual, worldwide, 
royalty free, non exclusive license with the exact terms of this 
License to Use, the Open Game Content. 
5.Representation of Authority to Contribute: If You are 
contributing original material as Open Game Content, You 
represent that Your Contributions are Your original creation and/
or You have sufficient rights to grant the rights conveyed by this 
License. 
6.Notice of License Copyright: You must update the COPYRIGHT 
NOTICE portion of this License to include the exact text of 
the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any Open Game Content You are 
copying, modifying or distributing, and You must add the title, 
the copyright date, and the copyright holder's name to the 
COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any original Open Game Content you 
Distribute. 
7. Use of Product Identity: You agree not to Use any Product 
Identity, including as an indication as to compatibility, except as 
expressly licensed in another, independent Agreement with the 
owner of each element of that Product Identity. You agree not to 
indicate compatibility or co adaptability with any Trademark 
or Registered Trademark in conjunction with a work containing 
Open Game Content except as expressly licensed in another, 
independent Agreement with the owner of such Trademark or 
Registered Trademark. The use of any Product Identity in Open 
Game Content does not constitute a challenge to the ownership 
of that Product Identity. The owner of any Product Identity used in 
Open Game Content shall retain all rights, title and interest in and 
to that Product Identity. 
8. Identification: If you distribute Open Game Content You 
must clearly indicate which portions of the work that you are 
distributing are Open Game Content. 
9. Updating the License: Wizards or its designated Agents may 
publish updated versions of this License. You may use any 
authorized version of this License to copy, modify and distribute 
any Open Game Content originally distributed under any version 
of this License. 
10. Copy of this License: You MUST include a copy of this License 
with every copy of the Open Game Content You Distribute. 
11. Use of Contributor Credits: You may not market or advertise 
the Open Game Content using the name of any Contributor unless 
You have written permission from the Contributor to do so. 
12. Inability to Comply: If it is impossible for You to comply 
with any of the terms of this License with respect to some or 
all of the Open Game Content due to statute, judicial order, or 
governmental regulation then You may not Use any Open Game 
Material so affected. 
13. Termination: This License will terminate automatically if You 
fail to comply with all terms herein and fail to cure such breach 
within 30 days of becoming aware of the breach. All sublicenses 
shall survive the termination of this License. 
14. Reformation: If any provision of this License is held to be 
unenforceable, such provision shall be reformed only to the extent 
necessary to make it enforceable. 
15. COPYRIGHT NOTICE 
Open Game License v 1.0a Copyright 2000, Wizards of the Coast, 
LLC. 
System Reference Document 5.1 Copyright 2016, Wizards of the 
Coast, Inc.; Authors Mike Mearls, Jeremy Crawford, Chris Perkins, 
Rodney Thompson, Peter Lee, James Wyatt, Robert J. Schwalb, 
Bruce R. Cordell, Chris Sims, and Steve Townshend, based on 
original material by E. Gary Gygax and Dave Arneson. 
END OF LICENSE