--- PAGE 1 ---
Explore Bree and the lands beyond in this combined resource guide and 
set of three ready to play adventures for the world’s greatest fantasy setting.
TM
TM

--- PAGE 2 ---
Written by Gareth Ryder-Hanrahan, Jon Hodgson, Francesco Nepitello and Jacob Rodgers
Edited by Andrew Kenrick, Francesco Nepitello
Converted by Jacob Rodgers
Cover by Ralph Horsley
Art by Andrew Hepworth, Jon Hodgson, Sam Manley, Jan Pospisil, Scott Purdy
Graphic Design and layout by Paul Bourne
Creative Direction by Jon Hodgson
Proofread by David Rea and Jacob Rodgers
 
Based on The One Ring Roleplaying Game by Francesco Nepitello and Marco Maggi
© Sophisticated Games Ltd 2018     © Cubicle 7 Entertainment Ltd 2018
To find out more about Adventures in Middle-earth, and 
to subscribe to our newsletter, please go to: www.cubicle7.co.uk
Product Identity: The following items are hereby identified as Product Identity, as defined in the Open Game License version 1.0a, Section 1(e), and are not Open 
Content: All trademarks, registered trade-marks, proper names (characters, place names, etc.), new rules, classes, items, virtues, backgrounds, places, characters, 
artwork, sidebars, and trade dress. Open Game Content: The Open content in this book includes material taken from the Systems Reference Document. No other 
portion of this work may be reproduced in any form without permission.
Published by Sophisticated Games Ltd, 3 Andersen Court, Newnham Road, Cambridge CB3 9EZ, UK and 
Cubicle 7 Entertainment Ltd,  Suite D3, Unit 4, Gemini House, Hargreaves Road, Groundwell Industrial Estate, 
Swindon, SN25 5AZ, UK
 
 
The One Ring, Middle-earth, The Hobbit, The Lord of the Rings, and the characters, items, events and places therein are trademarks or registered trademarks of The 
Saul Zaentz Company d/b/a Middle-earth Enterprises and are used under license by Sophisticated Games Ltd and their respective licensees. All rights reserved. No 
part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording 
or otherwise, without the prior permission of the publishers. 
Printed in Lithuania
- credits -
2

--- PAGE 3 ---
Introduction	
4
How to Use This Guide	
5
Experience Awards	
6
The Tale of Years	
6
A History of 
the Bree-land	
7
A History of the Four Villages	
7
Bree-land & Around	
9
Bree-hill	
9
The Roads	
10
	
The East Road	
11
Western Bree-land	
12
	
The Hall of Orgulas	
14
The Chetwood	
15
Bree	
16
	
Hedge & Gates	
17
	
The Quarry	
17
	
The Green	
18
	
Old-town	
19
	
New-town	
20
	
East Row	
21
	
The Forsaken Inn	
22
Staddle	
23
	
The Smial of Staddle	
24
Combe	
25
	
The High House	
26
	
The Thieves’ Glen	
26
Archet	
27
	
The Wood-castle	
27
	
The Elf-dell	
27
Map of Bree	
29
The Prancing Pony	
30
The Innkeeper	
30
The Staff	
31
The Common-room	
31
The Prancing Pony Map	
32
The Taproom	
34
Private Rooms	
34
Rooms for the Night	
34
Bathhouse	
34
Stables	
34
The Kitchens	
35
Brewery	
35
Private Chambers	
35
Adventuring in Bree	
37
The Body in the Marsh	
37
A Thief in the North Fields	
37
The Elf & The Stag	
38
Out of Tharbad	
38
To the Lonely Mountain	
38
Things to do while in Bree	
39
	
New Fellowship Phase Undertakings	
39
Dwarves of 
the Blue Mountains	
43
Cultural Virtues	
46
Cultural Heirlooms	
46
Foes to Freeze
the Heart	
47
Dangers of the Wild	
47
Emissaries of the Enemy	
49
Ill-favoured Men	
50
An Empty Land	
52
The Small Things	
52
Journey Event Tables	
52
	
Journey Event Table Entry 1	
53
	
Journey Event Table Entry 2	
54
	
Journey Event Table Entry 3	
55
	
Journey Event Table Entry 4	
56
	
Journey Event Table Entry 5	
57
	
Journey Event Table Entry 6	
58
	
Journey Event Table Entry 7	
59
	
Journey Event Table Entry 8	
60
	
Journey Event Table Entry 9	
61
	
Journey Event Table Entry 10	
62
	
Journey Event Table Entry 11	
63
	
Journey Event Table Entry 12	
64
Old Bones and Skin	
66
Adventuring Phase	
66
Part One - Stories by the Fire	
67
Part Two - The Nephew’s Tale	
70
Part Three - As Should Be A-lying In
Graveyard	
72
Part Four - Over the Misty Mounds	
74
Part Five - Up Came Tom With His
Big Boots On	
77
Part Six - Old Skins and Sins	
80
Part Seven - Finding the Barrow	
82
Part Eight - Though Dead He Be,
It Belongs To Me!	
83
Epilogue - Of Earth and Water,
Blood and Bone	
86
Strange Men,
Strange Roads	
87
Adventuring Phase	
87
Part One - At the Forsaken Inn	
87
Part Two - The Body in the Well	
90
Part Three - The Trader’s Caravan	
92
Part Four - Strangers in the Woods	
102
Part Five - Not to Strike 
Without Need	
104
Part Six - Knives in Bree	
105
Part Seven - Before the Reeve	
107
Part Eight - The Choices of 
Mistress Berelas	
110
Epilogue - The Assault on 
Gorlanc’s Fort	
111
Holed Up in Staddle	
112
Adventuring Phase	
112
Part One - Down Rode the Huntress	
113
Part Two - Into The Chetwood	
114
Part Three - Things Out of Place	
117
Part Four - Watching & Waiting	
120
Part Five - Death Under The 
Apple Trees	
124
Epilogue - A Harvest Moon	
125
Index	
126
- contents -
3

--- PAGE 4 ---
Bree-land Region Guide
4
- introduction -
If you’re all going to meet in an inn, you may as well do 
it properly. Many a famous adventure has begun in The 
Prancing Pony, the legendary inn that stands in the middle 
of Bree. It was here that Gandalf the Grey met Thorin 
Oakenshield, and here too that Frodo first met Strider. 
Bree is a little island of civilisation out in the Wild, a town 
that survives only by the valour of those brave heroes who 
stand watch over it.
The Bree-land Region Guide takes Adventures in Middle-
earth west of Rivendell, beyond the Trollshaws and on 
past the gaze of Weathertop to where the great East Road 
meets the Greenway. As well as describing the Bree-land 
and the folk who dwell there, the supplement also contains 
three complete adventures.
The first section, A History of The Bree-land, describes 
the surprisingly long history of Bree, as known to both 
local folk and the Wise.
The following section describes Bree-land and Around, 
containing descriptions about the principal locations 
of the Bree-land and the characters who might be 
encountered there. It also provides new rules for combat 
scenery in urban environments.
The third section describes The Prancing Pony, Bree’s 
most famous landmark, providing everything you need to 
know about the inn and its regulars. 
Adventuring in Bree, the fourth section, includes some 
suggestions for what sort of adventures might occur in and 
around Bree. It also provides a list of new undertakings 
for the heroes to complete in the Fellowship phase.
The next section introduces the Dwarves of the Blue 
Mountains culture, as these traders are often seen passing 
through the Bree-land and might be convinced to have an 
adventure along the way.
The sixth section, Foes to Freeze the Heart, is a collection 
of new adversaries that lurk near to the Bree-land.

--- PAGE 5 ---
5
Introduction
An Empty Land provides a series of customised Journey 
Events for the Bree-land and its borders. Finally, three 
complete adventures are included, set in and around the 
Bree. They are:
• 
Old Bones and Skin (Levels 1 or 2): Something’s 
breaking into the graveyard of Bree and stealing 
corpses. The folk of Bree assume it’s the undead, but 
it’s actually a hungry Old Troll digging up old bones to 
eat. The Company must stake out the graveyard and 
find the real culprit, then track him to his lair in an old 
tomb and drive him away, but in doing so discover a 
far more insidious threat.
• 
Strange Men, Strange Roads (Levels 3 or 4): The 
Company set out to meet a Ranger at the Forsaken 
Inn, but they find him gone, murdered. A company 
of traders at the inn are the most likely suspects, but 
who amongst the travellers is guilty? The Company 
must track these travellers on the Road to Bree and 
spy on them, uncovering a nefarious scheme afoot 
that threatens all of the Bree-land.
• 
Holed up in Staddle (Levels 4 or 5): The companions 
join a Ranger on the hunt for a villain fleeing justice, 
following him into the Old Forest before they lose 
him. But the villain has snuck into the village of 
Staddle and holed up with a Hobbit family, taking 
them hostage and forcing them to help him bring his 
evil plans to fruition under the Harvest Moon.
How to Use This Guide
This supplement is a guide to the places and peoples of 
this part of Middle-earth, and is an invaluable source 
of new gaming material that expands upon what has 
been presented in Adventures in Middle-earth and the 
Rivendell Region Guide. While the latter volume is not 
strictly necessary, a Loremaster’s knowledge of the Bree-
land will be greatly enhanced if both it and this guide are 
used together.
This supplement is primarily for Loremasters, but players 
— especially those playing Bree-folk or Dwarves of the 
Blue Mountains — may be allowed to read some of this 
guide, but others should generally refrain from doing so.

--- PAGE 6 ---
Bree-land Region Guide
6
Certainly no player should read any of the adventures 
included.
The three adventures contained in this guide are designed 
to be run for a starting Company, perhaps one made up 
of Breefolk (and maybe a Dwarf and a Hobbit or two) off 
on their first quest, perhaps assisted by the presence of a 
Dúnedain or High Elf.
While Old Bones and Skin and Strange Men, Strange 
Roads can be run as standalone adventures, together with 
Holed Up in Staddle they form a short campaign. Heroes 
that complete the campaign will be ready to face the foes 
of Eriador Adventures, although Loremasters might wish 
to modify the first adventure of that volume and have it 
concern the Hill-men of Rhudaur instead of their cousins 
to the east.
Experience Awards
Throughout the adventures you’ll see symbols in the 
margin. These indicate a chance for the Loremaster to 
award Experience Points for overcoming challenges. These 
opportunities are optional, to be made at the Loremaster’s 
discretion and in accordance with the method of levelling 
they have chosen. They might form a direct, numerical 
award or a silently observed instance that counts towards 
gaining a whole level if enough are checked off.
Every game will vary, but these Experience Awards have 
been calculated to offer a good chance for a typical 
Company to level up in accordance with the pace we 
suggest for this campaign.
The Bree-land adventures make use of the Companion 
and Challenge Rating Experience Award Table (provided 
on the right) for non-combat encounters. Just as a combat 
encounter should be scaled to reflect the size of your 
Company , so too should these Awards be scaled to match 
your group of adventurers.
The symbols in red represent an individual achievement 
and are awarded to a single hero. Those in green are 
intended to be divided amongst the party. Experience 
derived from battle is calculated according to the core 
rules — for the sake of simplicity and consistency there is 
no change there.
	
Challenge	
XP 	
Challenge	
XP
	
1/8	
25	
2	
450
	
1/4	
50	
3	
700
	
1/2	
100	
4	
1,100
	
1	
200	
5	
1,800
	
	
	
The Tale of Years
If you want to follow the default pacing of gameplay 
suggested in Adventures in Middle-earth, playing all 
the adventures contained in the Bree-land Region Guide 
should take three or more years. 
Every scenario offers plenty of opportunities to keep 
the companions busy for a year of game time, as the 
players can easily follow their Adventuring phase with a 
fruitful Fellowship phase, or even start a supplemental 
Adventuring phase building upon the consequences of 
the previous one. Both the first and final adventures are 
designed to be broken partway through with an additional 
Fellowship phase.
Even if you don’t feel comfortable with playing one 
adventure per year, we suggest that you at least let one year 
pass for every two adventures. A tight pace of gameplay 
could be as follows:
Old Bones and Skin could be run in the autumn of 2971 
(or any year, really). Strange Men, Strange Roads could 
then be run in the late spring of the following year. Holed 
Up in Staddle could then follow in the summer, ending in 
the autumn of 2972.
Once your Company has vanquished Gorlanc, they might 
like to set out on a quest beyond the Bree-land. Eriador 
Adventures contains six more adventures set nearby, 
including one on the Greenway and another around the 
Barrow-downs and Bree.
Individual
Award
Group
Award

--- PAGE 7 ---
7
a History
of the
- Bree-land -
According to their own tales they were the 
original inhabitants and were the descendants 
of the First Men that ever wandered into the 
West of the middle-world…
Some will tell you that Bree is old. 
Older than the Shire. Older than Minas Tirith. Older than 
Fornost. Older than the Havens. They tell that there has 
been a settlement here, on the Road, since the First Age of 
the World. And the Road passing through the Bree-land is 
ancient, for it was made by the Firstborn, long, long ago, 
when they passed this way heading West.
For others Bree is younger, as they say that the Men of 
Bree are cousins to the Dunlendings, a folk of Men that 
long ago dwelt in distant dales in the far south and that 
eventually moved north, to live in the foothills of the Misty 
Mountains.
Of course, if you ask a Bree-lander most of the above is 
just pointless chatter. Bree-hill has always been there, and 
if you want to know about history, you will be regaled 
with an infinitely detailed recounting of village gossip, 
marriages, births, deaths, things said in the taproom of 
The Pony, things not said when they should have been 
said, and so forth.
A History of the Four Villages
The Bree-folk on the whole do not account for many 
scholars. History, and geography for that matter, are 
words that aren’t much used in the Bree-dialect, and 
books are a rare sight around here, almost as much as 
oliphaunts. And so it is that a definitive history of Bree is 
hard to come by. 
But while most are generally wary of “book learning”, not 
every Bree-lander is quite so wilfully ignorant. Take the 
Hobbit scholar Lemuel Heathertoes, for example: in the 
year 2921, Lemuel finished the compilation of his History 
of the Four Villages, a copy of which may be found in the 
Bree Counting House.
Any who can gain access to this book and have an interest 
to read it, will learn that Lemuel traces evidence of the 
existence of Bree back to the reign of the last king of 
Arnor. In the year 843 of the Third Age, the king ordered 
the construction of a ‘fortress and stables’ for the defence 
of travellers on the road. The text tells that nothing of 
A History of Bree-land

--- PAGE 8 ---
Bree-land Region Guide
8
this ancient fortress survives; it was likely besieged and 
destroyed during the middle years of the Third Age, 
probably during the sack of Cardolan in 1409, if not 
earlier. The fall of Cardolan was followed by plague, and 
Lemuel recounts how recorded incidents tell of the waking 
of evil things in the oldest barrows west of Bree.
The book states that in the year 1300 or thereabouts, the 
first Hobbits came to this region from out of the East, and 
settled in the Bree-land. They chose to live mainly on the 
southeast slopes of the Hill, in the village of Staddle, and 
it is still a matter of debate today if that village was indeed 
founded by Hobbits, or if it was inhabited by the Big Folk 
before that.
In time, more and more Hobbits passed through Bree, 
until in the year 1601 the Fallohide brothers Marcho and 
Blanco obtained permission from the King of Arthedain 
to settle in the then-abandoned lands west of the Old 
Forest. Many of the Bree-hobbits followed them across 
the Brandywine to their new home, and so the Big Folk 
moved into the farms and gardens (and sometimes even 
the holes) vacated in their stead.
Among the historical facts that Heathertoes records as 
relevant to the history of Bree is the burning of the town in 
the year 1974, when armies of Orcs and Men attacked the 
kingdom of Arthedain. Bree-land was overrun, the Bree-
folk fled and hid in the Chetwood, until the armies of the 
South Kingdom arrived and broke the power of Angmar.
The village was rebuilt in 1976, although some of those 
who survived the war chose to leave for the south instead 
of remaining behind in a ruined Eriador. Without a king 
in the North, the Bree-landers elected a Reeve to lead them 
and to administer their affairs, and that arrangement has 
lasted to the present day. A learned reader may recognise 
that the recorded line of Reeves is older, in fact, than the 
line of Stewards in Gondor.
Bree prospered in the years that followed the defeat of 
Angmar, especially when Dwarves started to appear on 
the road in greater numbers. Serving their needs (and 
relieving them of their heavy gold) became one of the chief 
businesses of Bree, along with trade goods passing from 
the Shire through Bree and south to Tharbad.
The town survived the Long Winter thanks to its sheltered 
farmland, but other towns of the region did not. Plague 
and bad weather and Orc-invasions left the surrounding 
land empty and barren. Heathertoes notes that as recently 
as 2800, it was not unheard-of for Orcs to attack as far 
west as Bree, and the weapons of the Wardens — the town 
guards — were used in deadly earnest time and again.
In the conclusions of his work, Lemuel Heathertoes 
ventures to say that is has been the close kinship of Bree 
and the Shire that helped both settlements to endure, 
when many other towns and villages in Eriador were 
depopulated and abandoned.
Since Heathertoes completed his history, traffic between 
the Shire and Bree has fluctuated. In the first heady years 
after Bilbo’s return to the Shire, many bold Hobbits (and 
their coin) made it as far east as The Prancing Pony, only 
for most to return having their fill of the Wide World 
already. Since then, Shire-Hobbits are scarcer and scarcer 
and a day may come when even a small party out of the 
West will be the talk of the town. But not yet: there is still 
coming and going between Buckland and Bree, at least.

--- PAGE 9 ---
9
- Bree-land -
& Around
Before them rose Bree-hill barring the way, a 
dark mass against misty stars; and under its 
western flank nestled a large village. Towards 
it they now hurried desiring only to find a fire, 
and a door between them and the night.
Bree is the last little island of civilisation and warmth in 
the midst of the empty wilderness of the North. Step out 
the gates, and you are on the Road that leads out into the 
wide world beyond. The Bree-folk are sensible, stay-at-
home types; they leave wandering the Wild to adventurers 
and other strange types. They know what they already 
have, and they cherish it.
Bree-hill
“Bree” means hill, in the tongue of the first men to live 
here. Bree-hill is not a remarkable hill by any means. It 
rises gently out of the rolling downs, carrying woods on its 
back to the east, but its south and west sides are cloaked 
in thick grasses. The hill is mostly chalky earth, but there 
is a small quarry on the south side, where the folk of Bree 
obtain good stone for building.
There was a watchtower atop the hill, long ago, but 
nothing remains of it now. Even without the tower, an 
observer on top of Bree-hill can see Weathertop in the 
distance to the east, and the Great Road with its gentle 
bend south to avoid the perils of the Midgewater Marshes. 
To the west, the lines of the Greenway can still be seen, 
graven onto the land, passing through the farms and 
pastures of the Breeland and out into the wild to the south.
North, too, runs the Greenway – the City Road, some in 
Bree still call it, although the city it once led to is gone 
now. Further west the East Road unfolds like a dark 
ribbon beyond the crossings where it meets the Greenway, 
bordering the perils of the haunted Barrow-downs and 
beyond, the choking thickets of the Old Forest.
Bree itself lies south-west of the hill, close to the 
Greenway-crossing. Staddle is on the far side of the hill, 
on its southeastern slope, and Combe beyond that to the 
north, in a deep dark valley. The Chetwood grows on the 
northeastern side of the valley, spreading out and turning 
wilder and more tangled as it runs north and east. Many 
paths lead through the woods to Archet.
Bree’s farms are tightly clustered around the hill. The soil 
of the Bree-land is rich and dark, good for root vegetables 
and mushrooms in particular. Further from the town 
proper, sheep, cows and goats graze on the rolling hills and 
crop the grass that grows over ancient roads and tombs. 
There are a few outlying farmhouses studded across the 
Bree-land & Around

--- PAGE 10 ---
Bree-land Region Guide
10
swathes of territory that make up the greater Bree-land, 
but the Bree-landers generally mistrust anyone who lives 
outside the villages, and consider them to be strange and 
a little dangerous.
Combat Scenery: Boulders, Lone Trees, Nettle Banks, 
Rock Edges, Varied Slopes
The Roads
The Greenway-crossing is where the East Road meets the 
North Road just outside the western boundaries of the 
four villages.Referred to by the Bree-folk as The Road, 
singular, the East Road runs east to the High Pass and 
off to Wilderland, and west along the Old Forest, on 
through the Shire, and hence to the Blue Mountains 
and the Sea. 
The other road, once known as the North Road, is no 
longer in regular use, and is so overgrown that Men now 
call it the Greenway. The Greenway runs south to the 
crossings of Tharbad, and from there through the Gap of 
Rohan where it twists east to reach Gondor. North, it runs 
to what the Bree-folk call Deadman’s Dike, which was 
once Fornost Erain, the seat of the kings of Arthedain.
New Fellowship Phase Undertaking: Guard the East Road
The great East Road is often guarded by the Rangers of 
the North, as part of their guardianship over the Shire 
and Eriador in general. But they are few in numbers, and 
often seek trusted allies to help in their watch and gather 
information. Dúnedain companions and heroes who have 
earned their trust who are spending a Fellowship phase in 
Bree may help the Rangers in patrolling the Road. If a 
character chooses to guard the East Road on behalf of 
the Rangers, roll on the table below. During Spring and 
Summer, roll with Advantage; for Autumn and Winter 
roll with Disadvantage.
1: Scorned. For the length of your watch, travellers have 
given you the treatment they reserve for the Rangers: 
scowling looks, scornful names, and well-aimed stones. 
Dispirited and angry, you gain 1 Shadow point.
2-4: Wandering Folk. Long hours in the Wild have 
not improved your temperament or appearance. For 
the following Advenuring phase, if you’re with the 
Company during an Audience the Introduction Check is 
made with Disadvantage.
5-7: A Duty Well-served. Nothing exciting happens, 
but the Rangers appreciate your dedication. During 
the next Adventuring phase, if the Company has an 
Audience with the Dúnedain you automatically grant 
Advantage on the Introduction Check.
8-10: Help Needed. You spy a group of travellers in 
difficulty (Dwarves weary and dispirited after a very 
long journey, local farmers whose horses were spooked 
apparently for no reason and ran away, Hobbits from 
the Shire heading for The Prancing Pony who expected 
a shorter trip, etc.). You offer your help and they 
reward you with their gratitude. Once during the next 
Adventuring phase you can remember this moment to 
grant yourself Inspiration.
11-13: Good Watch. The long hours sharpen your 
senses. You receive 2 Patrol dice. A Patrol die is a d4 
and can be added to any roll during a journey in which 
the hero is serving as a Look-out or Scout. Unused 
Patrol dice are lost at the end of the Adventuring phase.
14-16: Very Good Watch. As above, but you receive 3 
Patrol dice. 
17-19: Rumours in the Wild. You gather news and 
rumours from travellers on the Road. You gain 3 
Rumour dice. A Rumour die is a d4 and can be added to 
any Intelligence or Wisdom check. Unused Rumour dice 
are lost at the of the Adventuring phase.
20: Time Well Spent. Choose any result other than 
Rumours in the Wild or roll again.

--- PAGE 11 ---
11
Combat Scenery: Birdsong (near Bree or hidden 
Dúnedain refuges), Dikes (at the edges of the Road), 
Foundations, Rubble, Steep Slopes (the Greenway south 
of Bree), Warm Sun.
The East Road
The East Road is much more relevant to the Bree-land than 
the Greenway, in particular because Dwarves still pass 
through Bree regularly and thus can be encountered along 
the Road going east or west with packs on their backs. 
Those coming from Wilderland are often travelling on 
some lawful business or on some errand for the King under 
the Mountain, but others are of a poorer sort, pedlars of 
iron-ware, tinkers, or road-menders going to Bree or the 
Shire to offer their services.
Farmers from the Bree-land can also be met, riding on 
large fat horses on their way to the east side of the Shire, 
to sell their produce to some well-to do Hobbit families. 
Inside Bree-land proper, the East Road runs south of the 
town and is kept in reasonable repair by the Bree-folk; 
within a few miles from the four villages it is kept clear 
of weeds and obstacles, and free from troublemakers 
(though the Rangers do much more than the Bree-folk 
know on that score).
Going east and approaching the Midgewater Marshes, the 
Road soon becomes very bad; for many long miles it is 
rutted and pitted, and almost lost in soft bog, so much 
that travellers journeying with ponies or on horseback 
often dismount to trudge along on foot. Side trails lead 
off the road to Staddle and Combe; the well-trod paths to 
Archet go through Combe valley.
There are trees growing along the Road for many leagues 
from the Greenway-crossing to the Brandywine Bridge, so 
ancient that the folk of Bree and the Shire say they were 
planted ‘in the old days’. For more than half its course, the 
eaves of the Old Forest can be seen from the south side of 
the road, in places straying dangerously close to the line 
of trees bordering the road itself. 
At times in the past, the forest had to be driven back with 
axes and fire by folk from the four villages, but this has not 
been required in living memory.
Ruby Boffin
Shirriffing in the Shire is a respectable job: you go around 
helping people and sorting out problems. But ‘beating the 
bounds’ (that is, keeping a watch on the Shire’s borders) 
is a chore that few Hobbits welcome, as it involves a great 
deal of walking without many possibilities to stop at an 
inn for a drink. Ruby Boffin, therefore, is a rarity, for she 
likes very long walks, and can be encountered even along 
the Great Road on her way to Bree.
Born in a family of the Eastfarthing, Ruby makes it a point 
to spend at least a couple of nights every month at The 
Pony. She seems to enjoy meeting Outsiders on the Road, 
and even relishes those occasions when she has to “put a 
bit of stick about”, as she terms it. 
Her un-Hobbit-like taste for violence can be blamed on 
her younger days, when she went “Adventuring with a 
Wizard”, and was never the same afterwards. Her fellow 
Bounders consider her rather cracked, of course, if not 
entirely mad.
Motivation: I’ve still got the stuff for a little bit of 
Adventure in me.
 
Expectations: “The world is wider and wilder than 
the Shire knows” +2 if the heroes are polite strangers; 
“They may be dull but they’re family” -1 if the Company 
disparages her homeland or its occupants. 
Bree-land & Around

--- PAGE 12 ---
Bree-land Region Guide
12
Ruby Boffin
Small Hobbit
STR 
13 (+1)
DEX 
15 (+2)
CON 
14 (+2)
INT 
17 (+3)
WIS 
15 (+2)
CHA 
11 (+0)
Armour Class 13 (Leather jerkin)
Hit Points 33 (6d6+12)
Speed 25 ft
Skills Insight +4, Riddle +5, Stealth +4
Senses passive Perception 12
Languages Westron
Challenge 1/2 (100 XP)
Focused. Ruby’s use of the staff in combat is unmatched. 
She may use her Dexterity modifier instead of her 
Strength to determine to-hit and damage. She has 3 Focus 
points, which she regains when she takes a short or long 
rest. She can use her bonus action and spend one Focus 
point on her turn to take the Dash, Disengage or Dodge 
action or to make another attack with her Staff.
Well-travelled. If Ruby is with the Company and they are 
travelling in the Bree-land then the Guide rolls 1d8+4 for 
the Embarkation Roll.
Actions
Staff: Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 5 (1d6+2) bludgeoning damage or 6 (1d8+2) 
bludgeoning damage if used with two hands.
Western Bree-land
Western Bree-land – the region north of the East Road 
extending from the Greenway-crossing to the Brandywine 
Bridge, is a wide expanse, composed mostly of featureless 
flats broken by sparse woods and grey swellings, slowly 
rising as it fades into the deserted lone-lands to the North.
The area is mostly uninhabited and avoided by most 
folks, if it wasn’t for a few adventurous Hobbits from 
Buckland to the west, who at times come here ‘for 
the hunting’ (mainly fowling), and a bunch of hardy 
shepherds from Bree to the east, bringing their herds 
beyond the Greenway when the season requires it.
In recent years though, Rangers have started to pass 
through the region in secret more and more often. They 
have been busy opening new trails allowing a traveller to 
go from Bree to the Brandywine Bridge and back without 
being spied from the Road, and building a number of 
hidden refuges. Their goal is to reinforce their watch on 
the borders of the Shire, a task they have undertaken 
under orders from their chieftain, after a personal request 
from Gandalf, the Grey Wizard. The Rangers of the North 
operate in this area out of Bree, using The Prancing Pony 
as their meeting place, but they have planned to build and 
maintain a fortified refuge on Girdley Island, a wooded 
eyot on the Brandywine, about ten miles north of the 
Bridge of Stonebows (see below).
Combat Scenery: Briar Patches, Fences (treat as Root-
covered Walls), Old Walls, Paths, Small Streams, Thickets
Hallas Dúnadan
Hallas is a captain of the Rangers of the North, sent to 
lead the men put on watch over the Shire. He is usually 
found in the company of his son, Halbarad, a tall, young 
man in his twenties. 
Hallas
Medium Human
STR 
17 (+3)
DEX 
12 (+1)
CON 
20 (+5)
INT 
11 (+0)
WIS 
15 (+2)
CHA 
18 (+4)
Armour Class 17 (Scale hauberk, Shield)
Hit Points 66 (7d8+35)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Insight +5, Perception +5, Pipe +3, Survival +5, 
Traditions +3
Senses passive Perception 15
Languages Westron, Sindarin
Challenge 5 (1,800 XP)
Battle-wise. Hallas has Advantage on initiative checks.
Endurance of the Dúnedain. Hallas may continue to act 
normally for one round after being reduced to 0 hit points.
Long-pipe. Hallas can make a DC 15 Intelligence (Pipe) 
check as an action. On a success, he makes his next ability 
check with Advantage.
Unyielding (Recharge 5-6). Hallas can use his bonus 
action to gain 10 temporary hit points. 
Actions
Multiattack. Hallas can make two attacks with his Long 
Sword or Short Bow.
Long Sword. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 7 (1d8+3) slashing damage or 8 (1d10+3) 
slashing damage if wielded with two hands.
Short Bow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, range 
80/320 ft, one target. Hit: 4 (1d6+1) piercing damage.

--- PAGE 13 ---
13
Once esquire to Talandil, the guardian of Fornost Erain 
(see Rivendell Region Guide, page 60), Hallas is wise in 
old lore and a shrewd tactician, a veteran of many battles 
fought in the Trollshaws. 
But among his many talents is an unguessable one: 
Hallas often enters the Shire with his son from Sarn 
Ford, posing as a merchant visiting the Southfarthing to 
buy pipe-weed. This way Hallas keeps himself up to date 
with any Shire gossip, and fills the pipes of his men with 
the best leaf.
Motivation: Even the meekest and meanest are worthy of 
our protection.
Expectations: “Fair words can hide foul intent” -2 if the 
companions are not plain-spoken; “Scorn and doubt are 
our lot” +1 if the heroes are kind and respectful. 
Building the Refuge at Girdley Island
Hallas Dúnadan’s main task is to complete the 
construction of the refuge on the borders of the Shire. 
When the fastness will be complete, the Rangers will be 
able to move swiftly along the river on their light, flat-
bottomed boats, to patrol the borders of the land of 
the Hobbits as far south as Sarn Ford, more than thirty 
leagues away from the Brandywine Bridge, or to paddle 
north, up to Lake Evendim and the ruins of Annúminas. If 
the companions are Dúnedain, or are presented with the 
Temporary Fellowship Phase Undertaking: Build a Refuge
Each Fellowship phase following an invitation to join in 
the construction of the refuge, the Loremaster will offer 
the companions a chance to take part in one stage of the 
endeavour, in the order they are listed below.
At least one companion must take part in each one of 
the listed stages and succeed in the required roll (a DC 
15 check of the indicated skill); If two or more heroes 
participate then the hero rolling gains Advantage. 
See also the rules for Specialities on page 121 of the 
Player’s Guide as certain ones are likely to apply to 
various stages. 
If the roll succeeds, then all companions that selected 
the undertaking begin the next Adventuring phase with 
Inspiration. If it fails, or no one selects the undertaking 
in a Fellowship phase, the same stage is used again at 
the next Fellowship phase. If the Company ignores the 
undertaking then Hallas completes the refuge after 
several years of hard work but the shirkers are not 
invited to the island.
• 
Stage 1. Scouting and clearing of the part of 
the island where the construction will take place. 
(Investigation)
• 
Stage 2. Opening trails allowing for the secret 
transportation of materials from the Bree-land to 
the river. (Survival)
• 
Stage 3. The transportation of the materials 
needed to build the secret fort. (Athletics)
• 
Stage 4. First part of the construction of the fort 
itself. (Any appropriate tools)
• 
Stage 5. Completion of the construction of the fort 
itself. (Any appropriate tools)
Should the fort at Girdley Island be completed with their 
help the companions will have access to it permanently 
(allowing them a safe place to take a long rest), and will 
have gained Gandalf the Grey as a Patron (or can expect 
a favour from him, if the Wizard is already a patron to 
the Company).
Additionally, close to the end of the construction, a 
hidden chamber is discovered under the ground of the 
island, and the burial site of a noble of Arthedain is 
brought to light, along with a rich hoard of treasure. 
If the companions assisted in the building of the refuge, 
treat their share as having a value of 10***, with the 
numerical rating multiplied by the number of stages 
they helped complete.
Bree-land & Around

--- PAGE 14 ---
Bree-land Region Guide
14
occasion to help the Rangers in their endeavour, maybe 
after a specific request of Gandalf or Elrond Halfelven, 
they can join Hallas in his undertaking.
Girdley island is presently a tangle of wild shrubs and 
low trees, covering a strip of land about two miles in 
length, formed where the Brandywine splits its course in 
two streams. Clearing the island and building a hidden 
refuge is a task that will take many months to complete, 
especially as secrecy is required. To help in the endeavour, 
the companions will have to spend a number of Fellowship 
phases, choosing the undertaking listed on page 13.
The Hall of Orgulas
There is an abandoned mansion less than ten leagues due 
northeast from the Brandywine Bridge, a few miles north 
of the East Road. It was a large and sumptuous building, 
now slowly falling into ruin, its size made all the more 
impressive considering that is was built by a Hobbit.
The mansion was erected almost one hundred years ago by 
one Orgulas Brandybuck, the youngest son of Marmadoc, 
a Master of Buckland. Obsessed by the hunting of a 
particular creature that supposedly lived in the woods to 
the north of the East Road, Orgulas eventually resolved 
to dedicate most of his time in catching the creature and 
spent a considerable part of his family fortune to build a 
hunting lodge there, in the Outlands.
Orgulas laboured for several years with the help of 
Dwarven masons, eventually finding the time to get 
married and see the birth of a son. But evidently his 
family life in Buckland was not satisfactory enough to 
make Orgulas forget his obsession: during his sixtieth 
birthday party, Orgulas announced his intention to retire 
to his hunting lodge and leave his home once and for all.
No one remembers when news of Orgulas stopped 
reaching the Shire, but when his disaffected son Gorbulas 
finally resolved to go and see what happened to his father 
about twenty years ago, he found the lodge deserted. Since 
that day, the hall of Orgulas has been left to rot, together 
with the memory of its founder. Travellers that know of 
its existence shun it, but wanderers in search of shelter 
during stormy nights have spent a night or two under its 
roof, attracted by a faint light seen shining inside it, or at 
least so the gossips say.
Unbeknownst to everyone, including the Rangers 
patrolling the area, Orgulas is still alive, his wits 
completely gone. Several decades ago he convinced 
himself that his elusive quarry was not a surface dweller, 
but an underground creature, and he resolved to live 
under his hall, to delve deep into the nearby hills and 
seek out his prey. For years on end, Orgulas has quietly 
and patiently dug a complex of subterranean passages, 
following what he believes are the tracks left by the 
creature he now calls the ‘deepdelver’, in mocking tribute 
to his ancestor Gormadoc Brandybuck.
The ‘Deepdelver’
What is the creature that Orgulas Brandybuck calls 
the ‘deepdelver’? Does it exist at all, or is it a figment 
of his distorted mind? It doesn’t make a difference 
for the hobbit, as he will spend every minute of what 
remains of his life to hunt it. Should a Loremaster 
be interested in exploring the fate of Orgulas 
Brandybuck, he should first make a choice about 
the nature of the ‘deepdelver’, possibly selecting an 
explanation among the two presented here.
• 
The ‘deepdelver’ does not exist. Or rather, it 
is Orgulas who has become the ‘deepdelver’ 
indulging in his obsession, a creature so ferociously 
territorial that will attack anyone appearing to 
threaten his safety. Knowing the mansion inside 
and out (and below!), Orgulas can set traps and 
ambushes, luring nosy companions into deep pits 
and crumbling tunnels…
• 
The creature is real! The focus of Orgulas’ 
obsession is an undead creature - an ancient 
vampire who since many centuries has been 
recovering from an old wound suffered in a 
forgotten duel, and that at the time of Orgulas’ 
youth prowled the land in the form of a giant rat. 
Hounded by Orgulas, the vampire has been able 
to elude him to this day, but soon his strength will 
be fully recovered and he will become the hunter, 
to first prey on Orgulas, then on the inhabitants 
of Buckland and the east side of the Shire. Take 
the Secret Shadow from the Loremaster’s Guide 
and generously add abilities from ‘Evils of the 
North’ in the Rivendell Region Guide.

--- PAGE 15 ---
15
Having given body and soul to his quest, Orgulas rarely 
returns above ground, and only after nightfall, in order 
to enter his latest findings in a journal he keeps hidden 
in the library of his lodge. In the long years he has spent 
in the dark under his house, the hobbit has altered his 
habits drastically, including his diet, to adapt them to his 
subterranean existence. He has turned feral, as any intruder 
spending too much time in his house might discover.
The Chetwood
The forest known as the Chetwood rises on the back of 
Bree-hill, extending for about thirty miles to the north and 
covering about the same distance from the Greenway to 
the west to the Midgewater Marshes to the east.
While to an outsider walking along its eaves the Chetwood 
may appear wholesome and full of light, its inner regions 
are as old as the Old Forest; both are remnants of the 
ancient woodland that once covered all the land. But no 
one living in the Bree-land ever ventures far into the woods, 
and no one dares to ask what lies deep beneath its green 
canopy. Why should they stray far into the woods, when 
they can gather their firewood and building materials 
close to home?
Moreover, the southern reaches of the Chetwood have 
always been a refuge for the folk of the four villages, in 
times when their land was overrun with Orcs and Evil 
Men.
There are hidden cabins and caves in those parts of the 
wood where the Bree-landers once stored supplies in 
case they had to flee their homes. These days, few people 
bother care about those cabins and storehouses, but 
some of the older, more eccentric folk still hide a portion 
of every harvest in the wood, like squirrels. Of course, it 
is scavengers like squirrels and mice who benefit the most 
from the tradition — there are few large animals in the 
southern portion of the Chetwood, but plenty of birds and 
small game.
Despite the confidence of the Bree-landers and the pride 
they take for the quietness of their woods, the north-
eastern Chetwood is a darker place. There, the ground 
slopes down slowly towards the boggy morass of the 
Midgewater Marshes (see Rivendell Region Guide, page 
58), and unwary travellers can find themselves waist-deep 
in mud if they step off the wrong tree-root. Here, too, are 
old patches of the forest where the trees sleep uneasily, 
and remember the axes of Angmar and the evil of Men. 
Even the woodwise Rangers of the North know it is best 
to avoid such places in the spring and autumn, when the 
trees, and their guardians, are at their cruellest.
Combat Scenery: Bog, Bracken,Impenetrable Hedges, 
Low Boughs, Paths, Rotten Trees, Thick-trunked Trees
Bree-land & Around

--- PAGE 16 ---
Bree-land Region Guide
16
Bree
The village of Bree had some hundred stone houses of the 
Big Folk, mostly above the Road, nestling on the hillside 
with windows looking west.
A traveller approaching Bree from the west will see the 
columns of smoke from its many chimneys rising into the 
sky before the prominent local landmark of Bree-hill. As 
they draw closer they will see a tall dark barrier running 
in a deep curve out from the hill and back around to it: 
a deep ditch with a thick and thorny hedge with closely 
interwoven boughs on the inner side. The Road passes 
over this dike by means of a causeway, and where the road
cuts through the hedge it is barred by a large gate. Another 
gate sits at the southern corner of the tall barrier, where 
the Road runs out of the village. The gates are opened 
every morning, and closed at nightfall by gatekeepers who 
reside in small gate lodges next to each gate.
Five hundred folk, Big and Little, live within the thorny 
hedge of Bree; perhaps half that again live near Bree-hill 
or south of the Road, but are still close enough to the 
village to stumble home from an evening at The Prancing 
Pony without risking life and limb. The townsfolk divide 
the town into Old-town and New-town, although no one 
Combat Scenery for Towns
Large towns like Bree or Dale (or their much larger 
cousins in the South) allow the Loremaster to present 
some additional challenges for a combat in town:
Ditches
During a combat in the streets, drainage-works can 
easily catch the unwary. Whenever a creature crosses 
this terrain feature, it must make a DC 8 Dexterity 
saving throw or become prone.
Doors
Most doors are made of wood, sometimes reinforced by 
metal strips (AC 15, 20 hp). An open door can provide 
three-quarters cover for someone ducking behind it, and 
a closed door blocks line of sight entirely.
Good Cheer
Heroes hunting a skulking assassin in the dark streets 
of a town can easily forget why they are risking life 
and limb. A sudden burst of song or laughter from a 
nearby tavern or inn can remind them that they protect 
the innocence of the common folk. Goodly creatures gain 
Inspiration.
Roofs 
Thatched roofs are unlikely to support much weight, 
causing creatures to fall into the structure. Tiled or 
wooden shingled roofs count as steep slopes, giving 
those higher up Advantage and lower combatants 
Disadvantage.
Tunnels
Larger 
townships 
(especially 
those 
of 
Dúnedain 
construction) might have complex sewer and drainage 
systems. Even the largest tunnels only allow one or two 
creatures to stand side-by-side, creatures wielding two-
handed weapons have Disadvantage on attack rolls and 
only the foremost creature in an enemy group can be 
targeted by ranged weapons.
Walls
House walls are varied — sod (AC 10, 30 hp), wood 
(AC 15, 25 hp) or brick/stone (AC 17, 30 hp). A 
creature next to a wall can gain half-cover from it if 
their attacker does not have a clear line of sight.
Windows
Most have wooden shutters and some will have glass 
panes. A large open window between two combatants 
provides three-quarters cover while a smaller window 
offers full cover.
There are many other pieces of combat scenery that 
could be featured in a town combat: covered or open pits, 
foundations, lone trees, mud, rubble and statues to name 
a few.

--- PAGE 17 ---
17
living today has seen the construction of any of the newer 
buildings.
The Bree-folk have no ruler. They elect a Reeve of Bree, 
who holds office for seven years and seven days, but they 
have little power, and are mainly charged with resolving 
disputes over property and livestock. Each village, 
including Bree, sends a councillor each year to advise the 
Reeve. The method of choosing a councillor varies from 
village to village: Staddle elects theirs; Combe sends the 
oldest villager who is still able to travel and still has some 
measure of wit; Archet has its own strange ways. Bree, in 
recognition of its size and importance, has a councillor 
and a Reeve; by tradition, if one is Big, the other is Little.
Combat Scenery: Birdsong, Ditches, Doors, Good Cheer, 
Impenetrable Hedge, Lone Trees, Roofs, Walls, Windows
Hedge & Gates
Bree’s main defence is an ancient hedge that looks 
like it was woven at the time of the village’s first 
inhabitants. Certainly the thorn bushes which make up 
this impenetrable barrier are so tall they must be many 
centuries old, and their gnarled limbs twist back and 
forth, weaving a pattern that must have taken great ages 
to grow to its current state. The causeways that carry the 
Road over the dike also date from those ancient times, and 
are still in good repair. A local legend tells that when Bree 
was abandoned during the war with Angmar, a lone Troll 
came down from the Trollshaws and took up residence in 
the lee of the southern causeway, hiding from the sun in 
its shadow and demanding a toll from passers-by.
A human-like skull of prodigious size is kept as a treasure 
in the Counting-house, giving some substance to the old 
tale. 
The deep dike and thick thorny hedge protect Bree on three 
sides, with the steep slopes of Bree-hill guarding it from 
the North and East. The hedge is tallest and thickest near 
the gates, but presents an impressive barrier that would 
surely dissuade any wandering animals or troublesome 
Goblins. The two gates are made of sturdy wood, bound 
in iron. There is a gatekeeper at each gate night and day, 
and several other watchmen can be called to duty at the 
ringing of a bell kept in each lodge. There is also a modest 
watchtower, half-way along the hedge between the two 
gates, built as the replacement for the toppled tower atop 
the hill. From the top of this tower, a good archer can 
strike at any foes clambering across the dike.
A well-hidden, smaller opening pierces the hedge to the 
north, where a small door of dark wood is reached by 
a path starting from The Pony. On the other side of the 
hedge, the track leads to the Greenway. The older Bree-
hobbits call the opening the ‘postern-gate’, but every 
one else call it the ‘Rangers’ door’, as only those stealthy 
wanderers use it nowadays.
The Bree-wardens
In addition to the keeper at each gate, Bree employs 
a small number of Wardens, who keep the peace and 
deal with problems around the villages. Like their 
counterparts in the Shire, the wardens spend more 
time dealing with straying animals than thieves or 
two-legged miscreants. The Wardens are called up 
only when needed – on market days, or when a large 
number of strangers pass through town. Most young 
men spend a season or two on the Warden’s roster, 
especially if they hope to get work as a caravan 
guard, which is considered an acceptable adventure 
among the Bree-folk.
Being a Warden carries with it a degree of prestige 
– Wardens get to carry a big stick, and even wear 
a helmet sometimes – but little danger. The Reeve 
appoints the Chief Warden, who serves until they 
become too old or infirm to carry out their not-
especially-onerous duties. The position comes with a 
stipend, and the right to wear a red feather in one’s cap. 
 
Most Wardens are Town Guards, but a few 
experienced ones are Warriors (see pages 68-72 in 
the Loremaster’s Guide).
The Quarry
The old quarry is still in infrequent use, but was worked 
extensively in times past, as its stone was used to build 
the houses of Bree, and to keep the road and the bridges 
across the Brandywine in good repair. At times of heavy 
Bree-land & Around

--- PAGE 18 ---
Bree-land Region Guide
18
rain, the quarry’s excavations partially flood, and become 
extremely dangerous; Bree-children are warned not to 
trespass too close, for fear of drowning. Strange stories, 
discounted by all save the most credulous, insist that 
tunnels lead from the back of the quarry to the cellars of 
the older Hobbit-holes in Staddle; these same stories talk 
about Wights hiding in the darkness, or treasures buried 
in the last days of the kingdom.
The fanciest stonework of the buildings in Bree do not owe 
their origins to the quarry though, but to old Tharbad, 
as the many oddly carved and mismatched stones set 
into their walls will tell. Much of the dressed stone that 
makes up the buildings of the East Row of Bree was in 
fact recovered from the abandoned ruins of once-mighty 
buildings by the crafty Bree-landers, whose common sense 
could not suffer such quality material to be left among the 
growing grasses.
The Green
This open space is the heart of Bree, where the townsfolk 
gather and where the chief business of the town takes 
place.
Markets are held four times a year here, when farmers and 
freeholders from the villages come in to sell their produce 
and livestock, and to buy from Dwarven merchants and 
the occasional enterprising Brandybuck. Merchants 
sometimes come up the Greenway to buy and sell at the 
market; Shire-grown pipeweed and other clever things 
made by the Hobbits are especially popular, as are sturdy 
ponies. Bree is always crowded to bursting on market-
days, and the Wardens (see page 17) call up all their 
reserves to keep an eye on things.
The Inn of The Prancing Pony (see page 30) stands 
opposite the Green, on the other side of the Road, while 
on the other is the Counting-house and Reeve’s Hall. 
The Counting-house was once where the king’s men 
collected the taxes and tariffs from the Bree-folk and from 
travellers on the road. Today, it is still used for council 
meetings and tax collection, and is as close as Bree has to 
a town hall or lord’s palace. The building itself sits upon 
pillars of stone, of various designs. These were found long 
ago amid the ancient ruins scattered across the empty 
lands around Bree, and dragged back to the town as a 
footing for the Counting-house. The pillars raise it up 
above the nearby buildings, and the Bree-folk think it most 
grand and clever. In reality, its elevated position, with no 
lower floor, makes the Counting-house rather draughty. 
This has the virtue of keeping council meetings brief and 
decisive, as even the most silver-tongued speakers find 
their eloquence to be most unhealthy in the long run.
The Counting-house is also home to Bree’s treasury and 
mint (where suspect foreign coins are melted down and 
recast as good honest silver pennies), and to the Warden’s 
Armoury, where spears and iron helmets are kept for 
times of need.
The Reeve’s Hall is not the home of the Reeve: it is Bree’s 
court-house. The Reeve’s herald — usually, a young fellow 
who knows his letters — stands on the raised porch of 
the house and reads proclamations and by-laws made 
by the Reeve on market days. Documents and records 
are stored upstairs. Village legend claims that there is 
a vault in the basement that not only holds a fortune 
in silver, but also jewels and wonders from days of old, 
carried out of the ruins of the North-kingdom; in truth, 
the vault mainly contains bottles of Old Winyards and 
some cured hams.
Matthew Mugwort
There is wisdom and lore such that Wizards and Elves 
might possess through long years of study. And there’s 
the knowing of Bree, which Matthew Mugwort, a Hobbit, 
possesses in spades. Put any question to him – preferably, 
over a pint in The Pony – and he’ll answer it for you 
with complete and utter certainty. Matthew Mugwort 
knows right from wrong, and sensible business from 
the foolishness of foreign lands. He may not be counted 
among the Wise, but in Bree his opinion counts for a great 
deal indeed. 
From his barstool, Matthew Mugwort has pronounced 
judgements upon many topics, like the Rangers 
(“troublesome outlaws, the lot of them”), Orcs (“they live 
far away in t’ mountains, they do, and it’s always them 
Dwerrves who’re stirring ’em up”), Outsiders (“all right so 
long as they don’t outstay their welcome”), Barrow-wights 
(“nonsense about ghosts – it’s just fog and broken stones 
that look like men”), and the future (“pay it no mind and 
it’ll attend to itself”).

--- PAGE 19 ---
19
As long as the beer’s flowing, Mugwort will argue about 
anything with the placid impenetrability of a man 
who is absolutely certain that there’s nothing of any 
worth outside Bree-land. If he’s present in the bar when 
adventurers arrive, he’ll argue with them and undermine 
anything they say: “you came from Rivendell? Ha! That’s 
out of fairy stories, man! Did you fly here on a magic boat, 
too?” . (Any checks using Intimidation, Persuasion or 
Riddle automatically have Disadvantage. He is the living 
embodiment of the parochial attitude of most Bree-folk.)
Motivation: If I don’t know it then it’s not worth knowing. 
Expectations: “Ah, you’re right to ask me, you are” +1 if 
the Company’s concerns are centered on the Bree-land; 
“Ye must not have been listening, let me repeat myself...” 
-1 if the heroes dispute his ‘facts’. 
Matthew Mugwor
Small Hobbit
STR 
8 (-1)
DEX 
11 (+0)
CON 
13 (+1)
INT 
15 (+2)
WIS 
12 (+1)
CHA 
14 (+2)
Armour Class 10
Hit Points 9 (2d6+2)
Speed 25 ft
Skills Insight +3, Intimidation +4, Perception +3, Pipe 
+4, Traditions +4
Senses passive Perception 13
Languages Westron
Challenge 0 (0 XP)
Bolster. If Matthew is present for an Audience, his 
support can sway others. The spokesperson for the 
Company can make a DC 15 Persuasion (Charisma) 
check with Disadvantage to impress him, on a success 
the Company has Advantage on all other checks during 
the Audience.
Confound. If Matthew is present for an Audience, he 
can bluster a storm of opinions that can turn the tide 
against outsiders. The spokesperson for the Company 
must make a DC 12 Charisma saving throw or 
gain Disadvantage on all further checks during the 
Audience.
Actions
Hazel Rod. Melee Weapon Attack: +2 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 1 bludgeoning damage.
Old-town
Old-town, as may already have been surmised, is the 
oldest part of Bree, rising above the Road on the lower 
slopes of the Hill. The houses here all have windows 
looking west and are made from stone. Some stand two 
or even three storeys tall. The tallest are the home of 
crafters – weavers, dyers, leather-workers – and have 
workshops on the ground floor. Others are owned 
by wealthy farmers who own large portions of the 
countryside around the village. The folk of Old-town are 
notoriously snobbish towards ‘blow-ins’ and ‘rustics’, so 
if you haven’t lived in Bree since before the days of the 
kings, you’re simply not ‘quality’. They don’t extend this 
prejudice to travellers on the road; Old-town has always 
prospered from traffic and trade.
The best-known landmark in Old-town is the town well, 
sunk deep into the hillside to bring up good water even 
when other streams run dry. It’s considered lucky for 
a traveller departing Bree to take a drink from the well 
just before leaving; since the beer in The Pony is always 
brewed with water from this well, the luck surely holds if 
the traveller has one more for the road.
The town well is also where youths from Bree gather in the 
hopes of signing on as caravan-guards and hired hands 
with merchants heading off along the Road. A young 
Bree-lander can earn more on a single trip to the Blue 
Mountains than in a year of work on a farm; Dwarves 
drive a hard bargain, but they pay in gold and silver.
Bree-land & Around

--- PAGE 20 ---
Bree-land Region Guide
20
Another common sight in Old-town are the Cellar-hobbits. 
When Hobbits first settled in Bree, some of them rented the 
cellars of human homes to live in. This became a tradition, 
where two families, Big and Little, share the same building. 
Often, the two families share responsibilities and chores; 
for example, the Sheafwheat family grow the wheat and 
mill it into flour, while the Greenbanks in their cellar are 
the bakers who turn that flour into the best bread in Bree.
Opposite the well stands a notable house called the Dwarf-
house — it was bought many years ago by a particular 
family of Dwarves. They do not live there year-round, but 
stay in it whenever they pass through Bree. The house is 
kept locked when empty, and there is endless speculation 
in the common-room of The Pony about exactly what is 
inside, with some favouring the theory that one of the 
fabled Dwarf-women lives there, and others assuming 
that it is full of gold. The Dwarves who own the Dwarf-
house are strange and standoffish, even for Dwarves, and 
they go north along the Greenway as often as they go west 
to the Blue Mountains.
Twyc Greenleaf, Reeve of Bree
Old Twyc is in his third term as Reeve. He attributes his 
snowy-white hair and weariness to the demands of his 
high office; everyone else points out that he is well into his 
seventh decade, and that he spends more time snoozing 
than working in the Reeve’s House. He entrusts virtually all 
business of managing Bree to his young (and ambitious) 
assistant, Cole.
The one thing that shakes him out of his lethargy is crime; 
as Reeve, he is the judge of Bree, and is infamously stern 
when it comes to the perpetrators of violence or cruelty.
Motivation: Justice will be done, in the name of Bree. 
Expectations: “Evil will out, in the end” +2 if the heroes 
bring solid evidence of wrongdoing to him; “This isn’t the 
place for fairy stories” -2 if the Company speaks of spirits, 
magic or other outlandish things. 
New-town
The houses of New-town stand on the higher slopes of the 
hill above Old-town. New-town is home to most of Bree’s 
Hobbits. Some streets in New-town are Hobbit-sized and 
exceedingly narrow, especially where the Hobbits live in 
houses instead of holes. Houses are much more popular 
among Bree-hobbits than Shire-hobbits for several reasons. 
First, the Bree-hobbits learned stoneworking from the 
Men and the Dwarves, and so are better at building snug, 
warm, sensible homes above ground. Second, and perhaps 
greater, Bree-hill’s south-eastern slope is already so riddled 
with bore-holes, cellars, Hobbit-homes and tunnels that it’s 
impractical to dig any more holes in the slopes near Bree.
The Big Folk of New-town are, in the main, less wealthy 
than their neighbours around the hill. Most are farmers 
who labour in the fields outside the village.
Notable locations in New-town include the school and 
the smithy. The school is the pride of Bree. Children, Big 
and Little, attend it for a few years when their families can 
spare them, and are taught their letters, arithmetic and 
other useful vocational skills (little of pure scholarly worth 
is taught, as such pursuits are deemed unnecessary by 
most for a happy life in the Bree-land).
The other villages do not have schools, although some 
children come to Bree and board with relatives in order to 
attend lessons for a few years. The Schoolmistress of Bree 
is one of the most important people in the town, on a par 
with the Innkeeper or the Chief Warden.
The smithy in Bree makes horseshoes, nails, farm 
implements and other common goods. Adventurers seeking 
weapons or armour must wait until a market-day, or until 
there is a Dwarf-smith in town who can make such things.

--- PAGE 21 ---
21
Tad Tillfield
Young Tad is a newly commissioned Warden of Bree. 
Indeed, he is so excited about becoming a Warden that 
he has thrown himself wholeheartedly into his new role. 
He rushes around Bree-land on Important Missions and 
Warden Business, never stinting or shirking. 
The other, more experienced Wardens have realised that 
they can get Tad to do all their work for them, so he gets 
lumbered with all the worst jobs (or, as they tell him, 
“entrusted with the most important tasks that only a true 
Warden can accomplish”), like watching the gate on cold 
rainy nights, looking for sheep that have strayed into the 
Old Forest – or dealing with adventuring-types who look 
like they might cause trouble.
Tad Tillfield
Medium Human
STR 
13 (+1)
DEX 
14 (+2)
CON 
11 (+0)
INT 
10 (+0)
WIS 
13 (+1)
CHA 
11 (+0)
Armour Class 16 (Hide Armour, Shield)
Hit Points 13 (3d8)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Intimidation +2, Investigation +2, Perception +3
Senses passive Perception 13
Languages Westron
Challenge 1/2 (100 XP)
Defender of That Which He Loves (1/day). If Tad is 
fighting in defense of Bree, he can use his bonus action to 
gain 10 temporary hit points.
Shield-strike (Recharge 5-6). If Tad has just struck with 
his club, he can use his bonus action to slam his shield 
into his target. The creature takes 2 points of bludgeoning 
damage and must make a DC 11 Strength saving throw 
or become Prone.
Actions
Club. Melee Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 3 (1d4+1) bludgeoning damage.
Tad takes the latter of these duties especially seriously; if 
the Company enter Bree on his watch, he’ll dog their every 
footstep to make sure they keep the peace of the town.
Motivation: I’m going to be Chief Warden and Bree will 
be safe under my watch. 
Expectations: “It’s my business to be asking questions” 
+1 if the heroes answer quickly (even with riddling words); 
“We don’t go in for trouble of any kind around here” -2 if 
the companions speak of dangers or threats beyond the 
fields that Tad knows.
East Row
The East Row is the newest part of Bree, built on land that 
was once reserved for grazing by caravan-ponies. When 
refugees from lost Tharbad came north, they settled here 
and built the East Row. The houses here are built using 
stone taken from the abandoned city, and other ruins 
found within the Bree-land, and are more richly decorated 
than the rest of Bree.
Statues of old kings and heroes stand guard over 
doorways, and gargoyles and stone ships carry water 
down from gutters. The atmosphere in parts of the East 
Row is different to the rest of Bree: less welcoming, less 
trusting, less Hobbit-like.
Many of the East Row houses have gardens or orchards 
stretching back up the hillside behind them.
Anna Wintermoss, Schoolmistress
Anna runs the school in Bree, teaching the youths of Bree 
their letters and numbers. She’s not a native of the North 
— she came up the Greenway five years ago, pursued by 
strange men who chased her right to the end of Bree-land. 
Anna never talks about her past, but from her accent and 
speech, she must come from the distant South. When not 
teaching, she sometimes wanders the Barrow-downs, as if 
looking for a particular tomb.
Motivation: I’m here to teach the children today, the past 
is of no consequence. 
Expectations: “It is not worth the telling” -1 if the 
companions pry into her past; “We should not speak of 
such things here” -2 if a hero addresses her in any language 
other than Westron. 
Bree-land & Around

--- PAGE 22 ---
Bree-land Region Guide
22
Anna Wintermoss
Medium Human
STR 
11 (+0)
DEX 
17 (+3)
CON 
12 (+1)
INT 
19 (+4)
WIS 
15 (+2)
CHA 
10 (+0)
Armour Class 13
Hit Points 35 (7d8+7)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Deception +2, History +6, Performance +2, Riddle 
+6, Shadow-lore +6
Senses passive Perception 12
Languages Westron, Adûnaic, Sindarin, Black Speech
Challenge 3 (700 XP)
Cruel Stroke (Recharge 5-6). If Anna’s attack has just 
hit, she may spend her bonus action to turn her attack 
into a critical hit.
Distraction Attack. Anna can use her bonus action 
to feint or otherwise distract her opponent. The target 
must make a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw or she gains 
Advantage on her attacks this round.
Wicked Cunning (1/day). Anna can use her bonus 
action to activate this ability. For the remainder of the 
combat, she has +4 to her AC.
Actions
Multiattack. She makes three melee attacks with her Dagger.
Dagger. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 
5 ft or range 20/60 ft, one target. Hit: 5 (1d4+3) piercing 
damage.
Reactions
Uncanny Dodge. If Anna can see an attacker that has 
struck her, she may use her reaction to halve that attack’s 
damage.
The Forsaken Inn
The Forsaken Inn is a day’s travel east of Bree, along the 
East Road, and is the last safe house west of the mountains 
for most travellers. Some fortunate souls know the way to 
the hidden valley of Rivendell, and can rest at the house 
of Master Elrond; others, like Dwarves or Rangers, can 
read the signs to secret camps or refuges prepared by their 
kinfolk. But for most the beds of the Forsaken Inn are the 
last comfort to be found along the East Road.
The Forsaken Inn is an ill-favoured, unfriendly place; 
most of the customers are hunters and trappers from the 
surrounding lone-lands who mistrust strangers. The inn 
is a ramshackle half-ruin in poor repair, the beer is stale 
and the food is dire, but it is a place to rest on the road if 
the innkeeper bothers opening up. Travellers on the road 
are charged extortionate prices for room and board. In 
Bree, they tell stories about the Innkeeper of the Forsaken 
Inn, claiming that he keeps wolves that prey on travellers 
on the road who don’t stay in his inn, or that he practises 
sorcery and murders guests who do stay in the inn.
Rangers frequent the Forsaken Inn; if one seeks the 
Dúnedain, look for them among the wild men and surly 
brutes in the common room here.
Jack the Forsaken
The current owner of the Forsaken Inn inherited the place 
by being the only guest on the night when the previous 
owner – an old woman who believed she was the widow 
of the last king – died in her bed. Jack is more than a half 
a bandit, but owning an inn has awoken something in 
him. As long as his guests don’t cheat him or cross him, 
he’ll guard them as they sleep. Give him half an excuse, 
though, and you’ll find your purse empty and your pony
sold when the morning comes.
In appearance Jack is scruffy, with a wiry frame and a 
face that tells the story of a tough life, despite his apparent 
young years. His countenance is rough, and he lacks most

--- PAGE 23 ---
23
manners. However he is a survivor, eking out a meagre 
living, helping people as best as his bad habits and bitter 
experiences will allow.
Motivation: I’ve finally got a chance to make something 
of myself, but trouble seems to hang over me like a rain 
cloud.
Expectations: “This ain’t The Pony, and you can take it or 
leave it.” -1 if the companions complain — Jack knows his 
Inn doesn’t measure up but doesn’t like to be reminded of 
that; “I can do a discount if you can do a chore or two” +2 
there’s always a hundred or two things that need doing 
at the Inn and more when you’re as lazy as Jack. If the 
Company looks like the crafty sort he might reduce his 
overinflated prices to take some payment in trade. 
Jack the Forsaken
Medium Human
STR 
15 (+2)
DEX 
12 (+1)
CON 
14 (+2)
INT 
10 (+0)
WIS 
13 (+1)
CHA 
11 (+0)
Armour Class 13 (Leather corslet)
Hit Points 39 (6d8+12)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Deception +4, Perception +5, Stealth +3, Survival 
+3, Traditions +2
Senses passive Perception 15
Languages Westron
Challenge 2 (450 XP)
Expert. Jack doubles his Proficiency Bonus for Deception 
and Perception (included above).
Nimble Escape. Jack can take the Disengage or Hide 
action as a bonus action on each of his turns.
Sneak Attack. Once per turn, Jack deals an extra 3 (1d6) 
damage when he hits a target with a weapon attack and 
has Advantage on the attack roll, or when the target is 
within 5 feet of his ally that isn’t Incapacitated and he 
doesn’t have Disadvantage on the attack roll.
Actions
Short Sword. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 5 (1d6+2) piercing damage.
Short Bow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, range 
80/320 ft, one target. Hit: 5 (1d6+2) piercing damage.
Reactions
Parry. Jack adds 2 to his AC against one melee attack 
that would hit him. To do so, he must see the
attacker and be wielding a melee weapon.
Staddle
There are two ways to see smoke come out of a Hobbit’s 
ears. Firstly, you could go and visit Adelard Took, the 
champion pipe-smoker of Tookborough and the only 
Hobbit ever to blow finer smoke-rings than a Wizard. 
The second, and easier, method is to call Staddle “East 
Bree” in front of any Hobbits of the Tunnelly family. The 
insinuation that Staddle is a mere extension – or worse, 
suburb – of the larger town on the other side of the hill is 
absolute anathema to the proud Hobbits.
The village of Staddle is, with all honesty, very similar to 
Bree. There are some twenty stone houses of the Big Folk 
arranged along the crossing of two paths. One path runs 
south to the Road, and north to the pastures; the other 
path runs west along the slopes of the hill to Bree, passing 
the Windmill of Staddle. More than half the village is 
underground; Hobbit-holes dot the banks and hillside, 
and a path of crushed gravel leads up to the grand door of 
the Smial of Staddle.
Staddle has an inn, the Lamplighter, which is a modest 
but welcoming establishment. It sees more custom from 
local Hobbits than Big Folk or foreigners.
Combat Scenery: Ditches, Doors, Good Cheer, 
Impenetrable Hedge, Lone Trees, Walls, Warm Sun, 
Windows
Adelard Took
Of Adelard, it was said that he could expel smoke 
from one ear or both, and blow different shapes and 
colours with each ear. His preferred weed was Old 
Toby, but for such trick-smoking he favoured a zesty 
brand from the Eastfarthing called Willow’s Wisp. 
Accusations and allegations that he possessed a magic 
pipe made by the Dwarves dogged him all his life, 
even though it is a matter of public record in the Shire 
that he won the first pipe-smoking championship two 
years before his cousin Bilbo returned from his quest 
to the Lonely Mountain.
Bree-land & Around

--- PAGE 24 ---
Bree-land Region Guide
24
The Smial of Staddle
More properly, the Great Smial of Staddle, although 
you could just say the Smial and everyone in Bree-land 
would know where you mean. The Smial of Staddle is 
the vast and labyrinthine underground mansion of the 
Tunnellies, the richest Hobbits in the region. 
The Tunnellies consider themselves the equal of any of the 
great families of the Shire, of the Tooks or Brandybucks 
or any other one would care to name. If anything, the 
Tunnellies say, their name is more prestigious, for the 
first holes of the Smial of Staddle were dug before any 
Hobbit entered the Shire.
The Tunnellies are not the only family to live in the Smial; 
after the Fell Winter, parts of the Smial fell into disuse, 
so other Hobbit families moved in, although they have 
to put up with the infamous tempers of their hosts. The 
last war fought in Bree, the War of 2930 (also known as 
the War of Thursday Afternoon), after all, was started by 
the Tunnellies. They have always objected to the authority 
of the Reeve of Bree, except when (as often happens), the 
Reeve is a Tunnelly. On that fateful Thursday in 2930, the 
Reeve was not a Tunnelly, and when he made a ruling 
against the Tunnellies, they marched back to the Smial in 
high dudgeon. 
The chieftain of the Tunnellies declared that Staddle 
would no longer be subject to the Reeve’s jurisdiction, and 
would henceforth stand alone. Some dozen Hobbits were 
sent out to seize the windmill and “secure the border”; 
some accounts insist that a pony-rider was dispatched 
cross-country to Buckland to rally support there.
As it turned out, the first council of war held in the 
Smial was accompanied by an exceedingly fine supper, 
and the newly commissioned thanes of Staddle took a 
long nap afterwards. On waking, they felt somewhat 
more reasonable, and hostilities ceased, with the only 
significant casualty being the Tunnelly wine cellar. 
Every so often, a hot-blooded Hobbit of Staddle will 
threaten a “repeat of 2930” or to “send a pony to Buckland” 
over some imagined slight from Bree.
Grandmother Tunnelly
The ruler of the Tunnelly clan is a Hobbit matriarch in 
the ancient mode; fiercely protective of her family, and 
determined to pry into the smallest aspects of their lives.
Nothing happens in Staddle without her knowledge and 
permission, and nothing intimidates her. If a Dragon 
landed on the Smial of Staddle, she would try to drive it 
away by thumping it on the nose with her umbrella.
Motivation: For four-dozen generations, the Tunnellies 
have been a respectable family. I won’t tolerate anyone 
who threatens our heritage.
 
Expectations: “It’s nice that someone from the Colony 
has decided to visit” +1 if a Hobbit of the Shire is 
Speaker and does not object to Grandmother Tunnelly’s 
condescension; “No trouble at all dearie, we Tunnellies 
are always eager to help the less fortunate” +2 if you can 
convince Grandmother Tunnelly that your idea is really 
her idea, she’s more likely to agree with you.

--- PAGE 25 ---
25
Grandmother Tunnelly
Small Hobbit
STR 
8 (-1)
DEX 
10 (+0)
CON 
11 (+0)
INT 
13 (+1)
WIS 
14 (+2)
CHA 
18 (+4)
Armour Class 10
Hit Points 14 (4d6)
Speed 25 ft
Skills Intimidation +8, History +3, Persuasion +6, 
Traditions +5
Senses passive Perception 12
Languages Westron
Challenge 0 (0 XP)
Expert. Grandmother Tunnelly doubles her Proficiency 
Bonus for Intimidation and Traditions (included above).
Lord of Her Domain. Grandmother Tunnelly only 
meets with visitors in the ancient and richly decorated 
halls of the Great Smial. She imposes Disadvantage on 
the Introduction Check for an Audience.
Stubborn Will. If a speaker in an Audience with 
Grandmother Tunnelly wishes to propose a course of 
action adverse to her wishes, the speaker must first make 
a DC 14 Charisma saving throw.
Actions
Umbrella. Melee Weapon Attack: +1 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 1 bludgeoning damage.
Combe
Combe lies in a deep, dark valley between hill and wood. 
It is always gloomy in the valley, and even the noonday 
sun struggles to penetrate the mists. The folk of Combe 
are stereotypically glum and dour, as if the darkness of 
their valley has leeched into their spirits. The main road 
to Combe is via a path that joins the East Road. There is 
a short-cut that goes through Staddle and then onto Bree, 
but that requires climbing the steep southern slope of the 
valley by the Stile of Combe, a staircase of steps cut into 
the rock. 
The Stile was once quite safe, but floods in the spring after 
the Fell Winter washed part of it away and weakened other 
sections, and now it is treacherous. The folk of Combe 
prophesy darkly that the rest of the Stile will soon collapse 
and bury some unlucky traveller, but that’s just what a 
Combe-born fellow would say.
The village of Combe is the second-largest in terms of 
buildings, counting some thirty stone houses, but third 
in population. There is no inn or place for travellers to 
rest, other than begging shelter in a private house or 
barn. The folk are more Big than Little; perhaps if there 
were more Hobbits in Combe, it would be a brighter 
place. That said, the Hobbit family of Mudbanks come 
from Combe, and they are so direly dull they could make 
an Elf-child despair of life.
The valley of Combe is good farmland, and the high 
hillsides make for good grazing. If there is one thing that 
raises the spirits of the folk of Combe, it is their animals 
— they breed excellent sheep and cows, and keep a great 
many hounds. They have had need of these hounds in 
the past, as Trolls are drawn to the valley of Combe. To a 
Troll, Combe is a delight, with plenty of sheep to munch 
on and plenty of shadows and caves to hide in when the 
sun rises. The Rangers stop most of these Trolls, but still 
one or two creep down from the mountains every few 
years and must be driven off with fire and spears. If there 
are doughty warriors to be found in Bree-land, they live 
in Combe.
Combat Scenery: Briar Patches, Eerie Mist, Locked 
Doors, Small Windows, Steep Slopes, Stone Walls
Bree-land & Around

--- PAGE 26 ---
Bree-land Region Guide
26
Oswald Breeker, the Squire of Combe
Said to be the richest and most miserly man in all of Bree-
land, Oswald Breeker lives in the big house at the edge of 
Combe. He rarely goes outside, but employs Little servants 
to fetch and carry for him. Breeker owns much of the land 
around Combe, and demands high rents from the tenant-
farmers who live there. He is not a popular man among 
the Bree-folk.
Oswald Breeker
Medium Human
STR 
16 (+3)
DEX 
11 (+0)
CON 
17 (+3)
INT 
16 (+3)
WIS 
18 (+4)
CHA 
8 (-1)
Armour Class 15 (Corslet of Mail, Shield)
Hit Points 52 (7d8+21)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Lore +5, Shadow-lore +5, Survival +6, Traditions +5
Senses passive Perception 14
Languages Westron, Sindarin
Challenge 3 (700 XP)
Duellist. Oswald is more skilled with a sword than most 
Bree-folk know, add +2 to his damage (included below).
Unyielding (Recharge 5-6). Oscar can use his bonus 
action to gain 6 temporary hit points.
Actions
Multiattack. Oscar makes two melee attacks with his 
Long Sword.
Long Sword. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 9 (1d8+5) slashing damage or 10 (1d10+5) 
slashing damage if wielded with two hands.
Reactions
Great Might (Recharge 5-6). Oscar can use his reaction 
when struck to reduce the damage he takes by 3, to a 
minimum of 1.
His wife died nine years ago, and his daughter vanished 
some years before that; she ran off with a minstrel, or 
went adventuring, or went mad, or ran away, depending 
on which gossip you listen to. No doubt he would pay well 
for any news of her. Those few who have been guests at 
his table say that he has a room full of books and scrolls 
and old things, and that he spends long nights in study 
of the past. They say, too, that Rangers sometimes visit 
Oswald Breeker, and that they esteem him more than his 
neighbours, although why this is so they cannot fathom.
Motivation: I have lost all but my knowledge and if I do 
not keep my mind sharp, I will lose that too.
 
Expectations: “My private affairs are no concern of 
yours” -2 if the heroes are indiscreet in asking after his 
wife or daughter; “Not many in Bree know the truth of 
the matter” +1 if the Company proves themselves not to 
be provincial in their outlook or makeup, or if they can 
provide Oswald with news.
The High House
This old ruin stands at the end of Combe valley. It was 
once a large fortified house, perhaps even a castle, 
although it is mostly tumbled-down and overgrown now. 
The shepherds of the upper vales keep sheep there in 
winter, and shelter there on rainy nights. Many who have 
slept there report having strange dreams of elder days, of 
warriors in shining armour and great battles and kings 
both wild and foolish.
Those who are wise in old lore may have heard of Malbeth 
the Seer, and of his house, rising close to the tower of 
Amon Sûl, and wonder if his ghost whispers to the simple 
shepherds of Combe.
The Thieves’ Glen
A little coppice of woods near the entrance to the valley is 
commonly referred to as the Thieves’ Glen. It is certainly 
ideally placed for ambushing travellers on the road to 
Bree, and offers plenty of places to hide or to stash stolen 
goods. There have been no bandit attacks this close to 
Bree in many years, but the name has stuck to the woods, 
as have stories of ghosts and buried treasure.
The Melancholy of Combe
The melancholy of Combe can be soothing to those who 
have suffered deeply. A hero who undertakes to Heal 
Corruption in Combe may choose to automatically 
succeed instead of making a check to remove Shadow. 
This automatic success removes 2 points of temporary 
Shadow.

--- PAGE 27 ---
27
Archet
Tree-girdled Archet is the smallest and most insular of the 
villages of Bree. The folk there are strange and secretive, 
and rarely visit the other villages. Even for natives of the 
Bree-land, Archet is sometimes hard to find, as if the paths 
around it move sometimes. Of course, Archet is so small 
that a traveller could walk right by it without noticing; it’s 
little more than a dozen buildings, mostly wooden ones, 
clustered around a clearing in the forest. Other houses in 
Archet are cleverly concealed; some are built atop the tree 
themselves, others are built Hobbit-fashion among the 
roots of old trees.
There is an inn in Archet, the Woodfellow, that’s also 
the trading post and common hall for the village, where 
visitors can stay if they have nowhere else to go. Archet 
is mostly Big Folk, although there are a few Hobbits there 
too. The Hobbits fish and catch eels out in the Midgewater 
Marshes, and have a great knowledge of those swamps. 
They know certain medicinal herbs and mosses that grow 
there, as well as which places to avoid.
The folk of Archet are skilled bowmen, and provide hunting 
bows as well as timber and firewood to the other villages. 
By ancient custom dating back to the days of the kings, 
the Royal Forester is chosen by the Men of Archet. This 
is largely a ceremonial position, but it still carries great 
importance in town. 
The Forester is charged with protecting the game in the 
forest should the king ever return unexpectedly and wish 
to go hunting, and with ensuring that no bandits make 
the wood into their hiding place. These days, the only one 
of the Forester’s duties that is still of any consequence is 
his authority over animals in the woods; no one may hunt 
deer or boars near Archet without his permission.
Combat Scenery: Deer Tracks, Hedges of Tree Limbs, 
Low Boughs, Thickets, Wood Walls, Steep-sloped Roofs, 
Tunnels leading to Hobbit Holes
The Wood-castle
The Wood-castle is a spot between Archet and the East 
Road, where a knoll of rough stone rises suddenly out 
of the forest. It is a naturally defensible place; a clan 
of Dwarves could toil for years and not improve it as a 
fortress.
From the top of the Wood-castle, an archer could 
command the forest as far south as the Road, and three 
warriors could hold the heights against a thousand. In the 
past, the Wood-castle has been both a bandit camp and a 
Troll lair; the folk of Archet now keep a close eye on it, and 
keep it ready in case danger threatens again.
The Elf-dell
Deep in the woods of Archet, where few mortals ever go, 
is a grassy dell where the Wandering Companies of the 
Elves sometimes make their camp. They are here most 
frequently in the summer, when the weather is fair and 
the stars blaze brightly at night. There are no Elf-friends 
in Archet, but some who live on the outskirts of the village 
have heard the Elves singing from afar.
Even when there are no Elves here, something of their 
presence lingers here, and the Elf-dell is always free from 
fear and care. The Elf-dell counts as a sheltered refuge, 
and a Company that camps there gains the benefit of a 
long rest.
Bree-land & Around

--- PAGE 28 ---
Bree-land Region Guide
28
Harry Talltree, the Forester of Archet
The current holder of the office of Royal Forester is Harry 
Talltree, a giant of a man. Despite his astounding size 
(seven feet if he’s an inch) and prodigious girth, he is quiet 
as a mouse when moving through the forests. He carries 
a huge wood-chopping axe with him everywhere he goes, 
and knows how to use it on more than just trees.
There was a Troll’s head on a spike outside his house until 
his neighbours complained about the smell and the flies 
buzzing around it, and Harry still gets asked to tell the 
story of how he cut the monster’s head off whenever he 
goes to an inn.
In truth, Harry always leaves part of the story out. The 
Troll he fought was of the two-headed variety, and he only 
chopped off one head. The Troll is still alive, and now 
bears an unsurprising but still vehement grudge against 
the Forester.
Motivation: To keep the forest as it is and as it was. 
Expectations: “There’s trouble afoot when the wind blows 
from the North or the East” +2 if the heroes volunteer to 
protect the Bree-land; “I’ve never heard any good of folk 
who live in the Wild” -1 if the Company seem to be aimless 
vagrants unconcerning with the four villages. 
Harry Talltree
Medium Human
STR 
16 (+3)
DEX 
19 (+4)
CON 
15 (+2)
INT 
11 (+0)
WIS 
14 (+2)
CHA 
12 (+1)
Armour Class 16 (Leather Corslet)
Hit Points 48 (8d8+16)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Perception +4, Stealth +6, Survival +4
Senses passive Perception 14
Languages Westron
Challenge 2 (450 XP)
Battle-wise. Harry has Advantage on initiative checks.
Savage Assault. When Harry rolls a natural 18 or 19 
on his attack roll, he may use his bonus action to make a 
single additional melee attack against the same opponent.
Warrior’s Charge. Harry gains Advantage on all attacks 
made in the first round of combat.
Actions
Great Axe. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 9 (1d12+3) slashing damage.

--- PAGE 29 ---
29
Bree
1.	
Gate
2.	
Rangers’ door
3.	
Watch tower
4.	
Old quarry
5.	
The Green
6.	
The Inn of The Prancing Pony
7.	
The Counting-house
8.	
The Reeve’s Hall
9.	
Old Town
10.	 The Well
11.	 New Town
12.	 School
13.	 Smithy
14.	 East Row

--- PAGE 30 ---
Bree-land Region Guide
30
The
- Prancing Pony -
Above the arch there was a lamp, and beneath 
it swung a large sideboard: a fat pony reared 
up on its hind legs. Over the door was painted 
in white letters: THE PRANCING PONY by 
BARLIMAN BUTTERBUR
There’s been an inn close by the crossroads for many years 
in one form or another. The world outside the doors may 
whirl and change, but there’ll always be good cheer and 
good beer in the common room of The Prancing Pony, in 
this age of the world (and the next, too, no doubt!).
From the front, the inn looks like a pleasant house, 
especially at the end of a long journey. It faces on to the 
road along one side of the Green in Bree, and two wings 
run back, cut in to  the hillside, so at the rear the second-
floor windows are level with the rising ground. 
A wide archway leads off the road and into a courtyard, 
and from there several broad steps on the left lead up to a 
door in to common-room of The Pony where a visitor will 
be warmly greeted by the Innkeeper.
The Prancing Pony in 
the Tale of Years
The Pony has stood in its spot for time out of mind 
and the information presented herein is as relevant in 
2946 or 3017 or any year in between.
Around the year 3000, Barnabas will hang up 
his apron and pass the running of the inn to his son 
Barliman. Luckily, the mould for the Butterbur line 
was cast long ago, and every one for generations 
has been a close variation on that original model. 
(Use the description given for Barnabas to describe 
Barliman.)
The Innkeeper
"I hope not, indeed," said Butterbur. "But spooks or no 
spooks, they won’t get in The Pony so easy."
Barnabas Butterbur is one of the most important men in 
Bree, and cleverer than he seems. He may have a thousand 
things on his mind, nine hundred and ninety of which are 
errands and orders and shopping lists and gossip from 
Bree, but he knows that Bree is but a small place in a 
wide, wilder world - he knows something about Mordor 
for example, and has met Gandalf, and more besides.
Butterbur welcomes guests of all lands and places to his 
inn, so long as they do not cause trouble and pay their 
bills (and if there is trouble, he can call on a troupe of 
regulars at the inn who will throw troublemakers out). 
He is an excellent judge of both a traveller’s character 
and immediate needs, and he is ready to offer lodging 
and services tailored to his clientele, knowing well 
the requirements of a hungry Hobbit, or the thirst of a 
travelling Dwarf, for example. He hears all sorts of gossip 
and rumour, and delights in sharing stories and telling 
tales, but knows when to keep his mouth shut too, which 
is a rare gift. More than anything else, he takes pride in 
his hospitality. He would stand between a Wraith and its 
prey, assuming its prey had paid for a room at The Pony 
that night.
Motivation: No matter where you came from or where 
you’re going, if you’re staying at The Pony then I’ll look 
after you.

--- PAGE 31 ---
31
Expectations: “We like to hear news, or any story or song 
you may have in mind” +2 if the companions are talkative 
and friendly; “There’s no accounting for East or West” -1 
if the heroes bring trouble or ill rumours to the Bree-land.
Barnabas Butterbur
Medium Human
STR 
12 (+1)
DEX 
9 (-1)
CON 
13 (+1)
INT 
15 (+2)
WIS 
16 (+3)
CHA 
17 (+3)
Armour Class 9
Hit Points 22 (4d8+4)
Speed 30 ft
Skills History +4, Insight +7, Perception +7, 
Performance +5, Riddle +4, Traditions +6
Senses passive Perception 17
Languages Westron
Challenge 1/2 (100 XP)
Expert. Butterbur doubles his Proficiency Bonus for both 
Insight and Perception (included above).
Friendly and Inquisitive. Butterbur doubles his 
Proficiency Bonus for Traditions (included above) and 
counts as Friendly during any Audience.
Storehouse of Knowledge. Butterbur knows much about 
the Bree-land. A hero that spends a short rest talking to 
him can automatically begin a journey that starts from 
Bree on Paths Both Swift and True.
Actions
Staff. Melee Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 4 (1d6+1) bludgeoning damage or 5 (1d8+1) 
bludgeoning damage if wielded with two hands.
An Audience with the Innkeeper
Travellers arriving at the inn must make a DC 15 
Intelligence (Traditions) check when arriving to 
introduce themselves to the Innkeeper. There is no 
penalty for failure, other than the Innkeeper being too 
distracted or too suspicious to give the companions a 
proper welcome. However, failing with a natural 1 means 
Butterbur suspects, rightly or wrongly, that the Company 
are up to no good, and will try to find some excuse to turn 
them away. If no such excuse springs to mind, then he will 
simply charge them twice the usual rates and keep a close 
eye on them.
A normal success lets the companions ask one question 
of Butterbur about current events or rumours, which he 
will answer as best he can. A success by 5 or more means 
Butterbur is especially solicitous, and spends some time 
chatting with the companions.
Again, the adventurers may ask a question of Butterbur 
about gossip or rumours in Bree, and get an accurate 
answer, but Butterbur will also volunteer a piece of 
information of benefit to the Company. A natural 20 gets 
two questions answered and Butterbur volunteers a piece 
of vital information.
The Innkeeper as a Patron
The Innkeeper of The Prancing Pony may not be a Wizard, 
or an Elf-lord, or a king, and the only skin he can change is 
a wine-skin. Still, for a Company of heroes just setting out in 
the world, Butterbur can serve as a fine patron. He knows 
everything that happens in Bree-land, and much of what’s 
going on Outside too, and is adept at putting a word in the 
right ear to nudge events for the better of all.
If a farmer’s beset by sheep-stealing wolves, or a Dwarf 
on the road sees an unquiet spirit, Butterbur might hear 
those tales of woe and send the companions off to deal 
with the problems.
The Staff
The Pony employs several young folk, Big and Little, 
to serve the guests and tend to their needs. At the very 
least, there’ll be a pot-boy to fetch drinks and food and 
a stableboy to take care of the animals there no matter 
what time visitors knock on the door. At busy times — in 
the evenings, or market-days, or Yuletide, or when a large 
number of thirsty travellers arrive — then the Innkeeper 
can call on half of Bree to work in the inn.
Like the Innkeeper, the pot-boys hear every bit of gossip 
in Bree, but are less discreet. A free drink or a coin or two 
can loosen tongues; although if Butterbur hears his staff 
speaking ill of a customer, he’ll beat them round the ears 
with a wooden spoon (Fell and Grievous!).
The Common-room
The heart of The Prancing Pony is the big common-room, 
where the company gathers nightly around the big log 
fire. Three lamps hang from the ceiling beams, although 
as the fire blazes and the smoke rises, their light becomes 
obscured by the murk. 
The Prancing Pony

--- PAGE 32 ---
Bree-land Region Guide
32

--- PAGE 33 ---
33
The Prancing Pony

--- PAGE 34 ---
Bree-land Region Guide
34
Benches, stools and low tables start out neatly lined up 
in rows, but as the night goes on, they become scattered 
and shifted to accommodate singers, performers, knots of 
gossiping and conspiring Bree-landers, or companies of 
Outsiders off the Road.
Smaller booths and shadowy corners allow for patrons to 
observe the company without joining in the merriment. 
Here, the Innkeeper and the other worthies of Bree hold 
court each night. More decisions are made here than in 
the Reeve’s chambers.
If the inn is very crowded, guests may sleep on the rush-
covered floor of the common-room, but that only happens 
on market-days in Bree, and then only if foul weather blows 
down off the mountains in the evening, and local visitors 
decide to spend the night instead of braving the rain.
Prices at The Pony
Expenses in the Bree-land are somewhat different from 
the hustle and bustle of Dale:
Item
Cost
Regular or Hobbit-sized Room, per night
9c
Company-sized Room, per night
2s
Fancy Room, per night
5s
Hot Bath
6c
Stabling, per animal, per night
2c
Ale, per tankard
1c
Wine, per glass
3c
Meal, per person
6c
Pipe-weed (Southlinch from Staddle), 10 uses
1s
Pipe-weed (Longbottom Leaf), 10 uses
2s
Pony for Hire, per day
6c
Pony for Sale (worn and dispirited)
4s
Pony for Sale (well-kept)
8s
The Taproom
Off to the side of the common-room is a smaller drinking-
hall, called the taproom, where the kegs of ale are stored. 
When the common-room is filled to overflowing, the 
customers spill out into the taproom. It is also used during 
the day when the common-room is being cleaned, but 
customers or guests still want to quench their thirst.
Private Rooms
The inn has a number of small parlours, ante-rooms, 
snugs and crannies where a party of guests can be seated 
for a private meal. Regulars in The Pony know the quirks 
of the building; for example, if you sit in the corner of the 
common-room nearest the door, and press your ear to the 
wall, you can hear the conversation in the private parlour 
adjacent to it clear as day. Secrets have a way of coming 
out in Bree, one way or another.
Rooms for the Night
The Pony has plenty of space for guests, and is rarely full 
to capacity. Most of the rooms are much alike in terms of 
comfort; feather bolsters and thick blankets, mostly free of 
crawling things. It’s not Rivendell, but it’s better than most 
inns in the world. 
Some of the rooms in the north wing were made especially 
for hobbits when the Inn was built, on the ground floor 
with round windows, and with Hobbit-sized furniture, but 
most are made Bree-fashion: sized for Big Folk, but low 
enough to the floor that Hobbits can use them too.
The first floor of the inn has four larger sleeping rooms 
that can accommodate up to a dozen members of a 
company, as well as “good rooms” that are “fit for a lord” 
(and priced accordingly). The good rooms are something 
of a legend among the staff of the inn, as they are opened 
so rarely that tales of their opulence have become hugely 
exaggerated.
Bathhouse
Basins of hot water can be provided in any of the rooms, 
but for a traveller who really wants to get the Road out 
of his beard, there is nothing like a good hot bath in the 
bathhouse. Fresh water from the inn’s well, copper kettles 
bubbling atop a big warm fire, freshly laundered towels 
– and the ponies watching you from the stable next door.
Stables
The stables in the courtyard of The Prancing Pony are 
warm and dry; the ostler there takes as good care of 
animals as the rest of the staff take of the paying guests.

--- PAGE 35 ---
35
There are usually one or two spare ponies in the stables 
who can be bought or borrowed for the right price by 
adventuring companies (see Prices at The Pony).
The Kitchens
The kitchens and pantries of the inn are never quiet; 
guests come and go at all hours of the day, and they are 
either hungry from long travel on the Road or eager to get 
a good breakfast before departing. The fare here is simple 
but hearty and pleasant; the stew pot, legend says, was 
started before the Fell Winter and has been bubbling away 
ever since.
Brewery
The inn’s ale is made here. Other drinks are imported from 
the Shire and further afield; the Innkeeper likes to keep a 
few bottles of Dwarven spirits on hand for guests from the 
Ered Luin, and has some bottles down in the cellars that 
come all the way from Dorwinion.
Private Chambers
The Innkeeper and his family live on the top floor of the 
inn’s main building. Most of the staff live elsewhere in 
Bree, but there are two small rooms on the ground floor 
for servants to sleep in.
A Night at the Prancing Pony (Audiences at the Inn)
The company was in the big common-room of the inn. The gathering was large and mixed, as Frodo discovered, 
when his eyes got used to the light.
Whenever the companions stay at The Pony, they will most certainly join the company of the inn guests in 
the common-room. The first time they do so, they are welcomed by the regulars, especially if they come from 
some exotic place (meaning, anywhere but the Bree-land): the innkeeper provides an individual introduction 
(providing Advantage on each of the following checks, unless the hero was discourteous to him).
The Company must then make a group Introduction check, with each hero rolling as she is introduced. (If a 
hero wishes to disguise his name, he may use Riddle instead of Traditions for his check.) If the group check is 
successful then any further checks that night are made as if the heroes are Friendly with the regulars. Bree-folk 
automatically succeed at their check and are treated as Favoured.
As soon as the companions’ identities have been established to the satisfaction of the regulars, the heroes are free 
to mingle with the inn guests during the Interaction and trade stories about faraway lands with local gossip. As 
the drinks flow and pipes are lit, Riddle or Performance checks may be called on by the worthies of Bree. 
As usual, Insight checks may be required if the companions wish to discover any secret motive hidden behind a 
guest’s inquisitiveness, while Persuasion is needed to win a heated debate. A Final Audience check can be made 
if the companions have a definitive goal, or could also be used to get a sense of how well the heroes were received 
overall.
The Enemy is Listening
As a famous Ranger likes to say, ‘drink, fire, and chance-meeting are pleasant enough, but Bree isn’t the 
Shire’, and the common-room of The Pony may at times see the presence of less savoury guests than a drunken 
Bucklander or two. In such cases, if you are using the Eye of Mordor rules from the Rivendell Region Guide, 
increase the Hunt score of the Company by 2 points for each natural 1 rolled during the audience (instead of 1).
The Prancing Pony

--- PAGE 36 ---
Bree-land Region Guide
36
Guests in the Inn
When you want to populate the common room of The Pony, roll a few times on the following table: 1d3 times on a quiet 
night, 1d4+1 on an average night and 2d4 times on busy days (such as a market-day).
Die Result (1d20)
Common-room Guests
1
1-5: 2d4 strange looking wanderers (Merchants, Thugs, Outlaws); 6: Ill-favoured fellow, a 
spy from Isengard gathering information for his master (use the Eye of Mordor rules).
2-3
1-4: 1d6 folk from Combe; 5: an Outlaw Chief enjoying his stolen gold; 6: the Outlaw 
Chief has 1d4 Brigands (see page 51) with him and they’re looking for a brawl
4-6
1-4: 1d4+1 talkative Bree-Hobbits; 5: Matthew Mugwort (page 18), already in his cups; 
6: Both of the previous entries and make the next roll on this table with Advantage.
7-9
1-4: 1d6+1 inquisitive Men of Bree; 5-6: The Reeve or another notable of Bree (pages 18-
21) celebrating an official achievement
10-11
1-4: 1d4 friendly Hobbits from Staddle; 5: 2d4 argumentative Staddle Hobbits; 
6: Grandmother Tunnelly (page 24), incognito, watching over a nephew in search of 
adventure
12-13
1-5: 1d6 folk from Archet; 6: Harry Talltree (see page 28), looking for volunteers for a troll-
hunt 
14-15
1-3: 2d4 Bree-landers not from any village (Farmers); 4-5: A Dúnadan relaxing, not 
wanting to chat about anything adventurous-sounding; 6: A Ranger who’s supposed to 
meet someone here — who might be late or missing
16
1-5: 1d4 Shire-Hobbits from Buckland or the East Farthing; 6: Bilbo Baggins, travelling 
under the name Inigo Grubb-Took, in Bree to meet a Dwarf friend.
17
1-3: 1d4+1 travellers from Wilderland; 4-5: 2d6 visitors from the South; 6: A Mountebank 
(see page 51), trying to cheat the companions of their gold, or at least have them pay for 
his drinks
18
1-5: 2d6 Dwarves from Erebor, heading west; 6: A messenger of King Dáin who lost his 
bodyguards in an ambush near Goblin-town (see page 35 of the Rhovanion Region Guide). 
19
1-5: 2d4 Dwarves coming from the Blue Mountains, heading east; 6: A very old Dwarf, 
desiring to see the restored Kingdom under the Mountain before his death
20
1-5: Roll 2d8 on this table and use the first entry listed… those folk are especially friendly 
or helpful to the companions; 6: Gandalf the Grey or a disguised Elf from the Wandering 
Companies, in Bree to meet the Rangers

--- PAGE 37 ---
37
Adventuring
- in Bree -
Were these people all in league against him? He 
began to suspect even old Butterbur’s fat face of 
concealing dark designs.
Bree is not Dale, where King Bard calls for adventurers to 
help him tame the wild and restore the kingdom, nor is it 
Lake-town where there’s always another merchant prince 
on the rise, willing to promise gold and silver for those 
with ready swords.
Bree is safe. Bree is homely. Bree is, to be honest, rather dull 
– and that is its charm. Bree is not a place of excitement 
and danger all of the time. Let Bree be the quiet place the 
companions return to, or where they meet their allies, or 
where they hear strange stories by the fire in The Pony. 
Adventures may start in Bree, but they happen elsewhere. 
Mostly.
That doesn’t mean, by the way, that Bree is altogether 
wholesome. Bree is half-way between the innocence of the 
Shire and the cruelty of the Wild – there can be a sinister 
side to Bree, behind the rustic charm and simple folk. 
Sometimes exciting or terrible things will occur in Bree, 
and be all the more shocking because of it’s usually hum-
drum rustic nature. Some in the town are good folk, and 
some are not, and most just don’t want to be bothered. 
There’ll be no trouble in the common-room of the inn, but 
there’ll be plenty of rumour, intrigue and foreboding.
So, with that advice in mind, what sort of adventures 
might start in Bree? Here follows a selection of example 
story-hooks and some notes on implementing them for 
your games of Adventures in Middle-earth.
The Body in the Marsh
Eel-fishers in the marsh spot a body on a hillock amid 
the mud. It’s early summer, so it could be an old corpse 
that was exposed by the retreating waters, or it might be 
a recent victim of murder. The one problem: when the eel-
fishers returned the next day with the Forester of Archet 
to investigate, the body was gone. Did someone bury 
the corpse again, or do the dead walk in the Midgewater 
Marshes?
For Level 1 or 2:
News of the mysteriously disappearing corpse could 
reach the ears of the heroes at The Prancing Pony or 
the Woodfellow or if they’re local sorts then one of their 
relations wishes the heroes to look into it for whatever 
reason. A handful of Bog Soldiers (see page 84 of the 
Rivendell Region Guide) can provide an exciting challenge 
for new heroes. Or perhaps there really is a killer among 
the Bree-folk (an Outlaw, page 74 of the Loremaster’s 
Guide or a Mountebank, see page 51). The heroes will 
need to follow clues (maybe the victim and the killer were 
seen arguing after a few too many at the Woodfellow) to 
call out the scoundrel and force a confrontation.
A Thief in the North Fields
A wealthy farmer of Bree, Robin Hayward, complains of a 
thief who keeps stealing chickens from his farm. He wants 
some brave adventurers to comb the countryside for this 
vile brigand.
Investigating, the companions discover that the ’thief’ 
is in fact a young Ranger named Eraniel who has a very 
good reason for stealing the chickens. A blood-drinking 
Wight roams the lands north of Bree, and the Ranger is 
trying to lure the monster into a trap using the chickens 
as bait. So far, though, her efforts have been unsuccessful. 
The Wight is too wily to be tricked by chickens. Are any 
of the Company brave enough to be used as bait for an 
undead horror? And do the rest of the companions have 
the strength to slay the Wight when it looms out of the 
darkness?
For Level 1 or 2:
The foe is probably a stray Barrow-wight (see page 83 of the 
Rivendell Region Guide) or a Wood-wight (page 138 of the 
Rhovanion Region Guide). Either makes a dangerous foe 
for inexperienced heroes. Eraniel can aid in the combat, 
but she should not dominate the fight — she trusts her bow 
over her swordwork any day.
For Levels 3 or 4:
Companions with some more experience can face a stiffer 
challenge. The Wight might have gathered weaker allies to 
itself (such as Bog Soldiers), might be found in extremely 
Adventuring in Bree

--- PAGE 38 ---
Bree-land Region Guide
38
advantageous Combat Scenery (a series of caves with 
rotten Unstable Walls, Pits of ice cold water and an 
Unsettling Atmosphere) or possess additional abilities 
like Spells of Despair or Unnatural Vitality (see page 
74 of the Rivendell Region Guide).
The Elf & The Stag
Guildor, an Elf from the Wandering Companies killed 
a stag within the borders of the Chetwood. A pair of 
enterprising folk out of Archet managed to catch the Elf 
– by their law, he has committed a crime. Do the laws of 
Men apply to the Fair Folk? How do the characters counsel 
the Forester or the Reeve of Bree?
For Any Level:
The heroes might become involved if they’re known to 
Guildor, even if only by reputation (if they’ve been to 
Rivendell, or are well known by the Dúnedain). Otherwise 
chance, if chance you call it, can serve to make sure they’re 
in the right place at the right time to observe his plight. 
The challenge is not guilt (Guildor does not deny slaying 
the stag) but degree of punishment meted out to someone 
who has hunted in the forests of the North since before 
their great-great-grandmothers were born.
As an additional twist, you might have a few Mortal 
poachers (Outlaws) also active in the area. Then Guildor 
can reveal he was not the only hunter that day, and he 
might lead the heroes in tracking down the poachers, 
leading to forest ambushes and running archery battles.
Out of Tharbad
Two families of the East Row, the Colwaters and the 
Cherryfords, both trace their ancestry back to the 
wealthier quarter of Tharbad. They both prize a statue 
of a white tree that was lost when the town was flooded, 
nearly fifty years ago. Now, a merchant who came up the 
Greenway spoke of seeing a stone tree in the river. Can 
the companions recover the statue from the ruined town – 
and which family will pay the higher price to own it?
For Level 2 or 3:
The trip to Tharbad is at least two-hundred miles along the 
Greenway (1d2+1 Journey Events, Peril Rating 2). Along 
the way, Journey Events can focus on conflict between 
those that should be friends… the heroes might camp in 
the ruins of a farmhouse destroyed not by time or Orcs but 
by the jealousy of neighbours, witness animals fighting 
amidst themselves over a mate or face an obstacle that 
can only be conquered by teamwork.
The heroes will also want to have a plan (and equipment) 
for dealing with a heavy stone tree and getting it out of 
the water. There are also dangerous things in Tharbad: 
crebain, Orcs and Goblins and perhaps something like 
The Thing in the Well from Wilderland Adventures, except 
it’s Really Big (see page 117 of the Loremaster’s Guide), 
doesn’t easily retreat and it’s pulling heroes into the river 
instead of a well.
To the Lonely Mountain
A company of Dwarves, the sons of Bori, from the Blue 
Mountains arrives in Bree. They are, they say, kin to one of 
the fabled twelve companions of Thorin Oakenshield, and 
have decided to leave their halls in the West and travel all 
the way across Wilderland to Erebor. The Sons of Bori are 
miners, not traders or wandering smiths, so they have not 
travelled on the Road in many years. They have come to 
Bree to hire some experienced guides and escorts who are 
willing to make the journey back to the Blue Mountains, 
where they will collect the treasures and heirlooms of their 
mansion, and then make the vastly longer journey east 
across the Misty Mountains, the Great River, Mirkwood 
and thence to the Long Lake and the Lonely Mountain. 
Those who go with them will be rewarded handsomely, 
with a fortune in gold.
The journey, though, will take more than a year to go 
there and back again. For that matter, why do the Sons of 
Bori need help from the folk of Bree? Surely, if they have 
such gold to spare, they could hire their fellow Dwarves 
from Erebor to escort them through Wilderland? Is there 
some secret rivalry between the Sons of Bori and the folk 
of Erebor that will complicate matters when the Company 
arrives at the journey’s end?
For Level 3 or higher:
If your heroes are wanting to explore distant horizons, 
this adventure is perfect for them. Depending on the route 
chosen, it’s hundreds of miles to the Halls of the Dwarves 
in the West, then a return to Bree and a long hike to the 
Misty Mountains and beyond. Plotting out such a massive 
adventure is beyond the scope of these notes but it should 
be the ultimate road trip: prepare a number of people for

--- PAGE 39 ---
39
the companions to meet, dangers along the road (Trolls, 
bandits and worse — remember that Eriador is a land of 
restless dead!) and perhaps rivals. Other Dwarves might 
not wish the Sons of Bori to be successful in their trip and 
the Company might crack open a crate of supplies to find 
only bags of sand.
Things to do while in Bree
"The Inn of Bree was still there, however, and the innkeeper 
was an important person. His house was ... a resort of 
Rangers and other wanderers, and for such travellers 
(mostly dwarves) as still journeyed on the East Road, to 
and from the Mountains."
New Fellowship Phase Undertakings
The following undertakings are available for heroes 
spending a Fellowship phase in the Bree-land.
Open Bree as a Sanctuary
Not every town or village is necessarily a potential 
sanctuary. To qualify as such, there must be something in 
a place that makes it a bulwark against the Shadow, some 
protection above and beyond the rest of Middle-earth. 
In some cases, the protection is obvious and material: 
Dale has its walls and armies, Esgaroth is guarded by the 
Long Lake. In other cases, the sanctuary has a powerful 
guardian whom the Enemy dares not assail, at least not 
yet. Beorn’s house has Beorn, for example.
Other sanctuaries are hidden, or blessed with some 
supernatural power. Rivendell or Lórien are triple-girdled 
against the Enemy: by secrecy, by the Elven-lords who 
dwell there, and by the power of the masters of those 
places. 
Bree… has a hedge and a ditch and a few men with 
cudgels. They may be valorous, but they cannot hope to 
defend against the sort of foes that haunt the North. If it 
were not for the protection of the Dúnedain, Bree would 
be destroyed.
Therefore, in order to be able to open Bree as a sanctuary, 
the Company must be aware of the Rangers’ watch on 
the town and be willing to aid in it. Furthermore, the 
Company must also have the blessing or patronage of one 
of the important people in Bree-land. Bree’s attitude to 
adventurers and heroes is a practical and sensible one. 
Adventurers are dangerous, unpredictable people, and 
do not make good neighbours. However, adventurers are 
sometimes wealthy (ill-gotten gains, no doubt, but silver 
looted from a tomb or Troll-hole jingles just the same as 
any other coin), and sometimes able to solve problems 
others cannot, usually with violence. Bree welcomes 
adventurers who are going to move on in a few days, not 
those who intend to stay for a whole Fellowship phase. 
This suspicion can be overcome if the Innkeeper or the 
Reeve or some other leader such as the Forester of Archet 
vouches for the Company.
In order to open Bree as a sanctuary a company of heroes 
must have accomplished the following:
• 
Found out about the watch of the Rangers, and 
earned their trust.
• 
Gained the trust of at least one important Bree 
personality (the Innkeeper, Reeve, Forester). 
• 
Have become known at The Prancing Pony (see page 
35), having spent enough to appear decent enough 
individuals in the eyes of the Bree-folk.
Guard Bree and the Shire (Dúnedain only)
"…foes that would freeze his heart, or lay his little town in 
ruin, if he were not guarded ceaselessly. Yet we would not 
have it otherwise."
The Rangers of the North have made it their duty to protect 
the simple folk from the threats that lie outside their 
borders, keeping the Shadow at bay since the fall of the 
North Kingdom. They act in secret, keeping their wards 
free from care and fear, getting nothing but scorn in return 
for their deeds. 
A Ranger companion spending a Fellowship phase in the 
Bree-land, or in the surrounding area, lasting at least one 
entire season may choose this undertaking and make a 
DC 15 Wisdom (Perception or Survival) check. On a 
basic success, you receive 1 Patrol die to use in the next 
Adventuring phase, 2 dice if you succeed by 5 or more and 
3 dice if you get a natural 20. A Patrol die is a d4 and can 
be added to any roll during a journey in which the hero is 
serving as a Look-out or Scout. Unused Patrol dice are lost 
at the end of the Adventuring phase. 
Adventuring in Bree

--- PAGE 40 ---
Bree-land Region Guide
40
During the following Adventuring phase, if you’re present 
during an Audience with Bree-folk or the Shire-folk then 
you impose Disadvantage on any checks made during the 
meeting.
Write a Letter
"Frodo read the letter to himself, and then passed it to 
Pippin and Sam."
Outside the Shire, or Gondor in the far South, few folks in 
Middle-earth can say they have a well-organised system 
of letter-carriers or messengers. However, places like The 
Prancing Pony see their fair share of traffic, and sooner or 
later there’ll be someone heading the right way who can 
be trusted to bring a letter.
When spending a Fellowship phase in a well-frequented 
sanctuary, companions may choose this undertaking and 
write a letter. There are several types of letters, serving 
different purposes, but they all require a Traditions check 
to be written, and then a roll on the Letter Delivery table 
(see page 42). The DC for the Traditions check depends 
on the letter type, see below.
 
Types of Letter
Choose one of the following types of letter (all describe the 
effects of a letter that arrived in time at destination):
• 
“I write to notify you of our impending arrival…” 
(Letter of Introduction): If a hero arrives at the 
home of someone who has received this letter then 
the recipient is more disposed to an audience with 
the writer. The letter requires a DC 15 check (DC 
10 for patrons or leaders of a sanctuary the heroes 
have already opened). On a basic success, you 
have Advantage on your Introduction Check, if you 
succeed by 5 or more you automatically succeed 
on your Introduction Check, if you get a natural 20 
then you automatically succeed on your Introduction 
Check and receive Advantage on your Final Audience 
Check.
For example, Trotter writes a letter to Elrond before 
setting off for Rivendell and is lucky enough to roll 
a natural 20… he will automatically succeed at 
Introducing himself to the leader of Imladris and 
receives Advantage for the Final Audience Check as 
well.
• 
“I write in search of aid…” (Letter of Supplication): 
This letter makes the recipient more disposed to be 
generous to the writer. The letter requires a DC 20 
check (DC 15 for patrons or leaders of a sanctuary 
the heroes have already opened). On a basic success, 
you have Advantage on your Final Audience Check, 
if you succeed by 5 or more you have Advantage on 
your Final Audience Check and you receive a reward 
one level higher than you earned, or some additional 
benefit if you earned the highest level.
 
For example, if a successful encounter would normally 
result in the Company being allowed to enter into the 
Halls of the Dwarves in the Blue Mountains, sending 
such a letter in advance might mean the Dwarves 
hold a feast to welcome the travellers, or have ponies 
and supplies waiting for them to speed their journey 
onwards.

--- PAGE 41 ---
41
• 
“I write to ask you to meet us at…” (Letter of 
Appointment): A letter of this type arranges a 
meeting with a patron or other ally at a specified 
location. It requires a DC 10 check. On a basic success, 
the ally will send a representative or messenger to the 
appointed place, if you succeed by 5 or more the ally 
will show up in person.
 
For example, the Company could ask their patron 
Beorn to meet them at the eastern end of High Pass 
instead of at Beorn’s house, as they intend to go south 
along the vales instead of pressing on to the river.
• 
“I may not return…” (Letter of Farewell): This letter 
is written to an heir (see Heroic Heritage, below). 
It requires a DC 10 check. On a success, if the hero 
perishes in the Adventuring phase it counts as a heroic 
death no matter the circumstances. Furthermore, if 
the writing check succeeds by 5 or more, the recipient 
receives a bonus of 50 XP from the companion’s final 
words.
Letter Delivery Check
Even in the best circumstances, a companion’s letter may 
be inadvertently delayed. Unless the companion is writing 
from an Eagles’ Eyrie (in which case consider the result to 
be a 20), they must roll on the following table, affected as 
indicated.
• 
If the recipient lives far away or somewhere perilous, 
roll with Disadvantage.
• 
If you’re writing from an Elven sanctuary or able to 
spend 1 gold piece or more to arrange delivery, roll 
with Advantage.
Optional Rule: Heroic Heritage
It is rare that a companion quests ceaselessly, for most Mortals (and even Elves) it takes only a few years of 
hardship and sorrow for them to wish to pass the fight against the Shadow to younger, less wearied heroes. And, 
of course, when one goes forth to do battle with the Enemy, there is always a chance that one will not return.
A Player-hero can designate an heir (either of their blood or adopted from any Culture). When a hero retires or 
is slain, the player can designate, with the Loremaster’s approval, one special piece of equipment to be received 
by the heir. Other equipment is lost, perhaps returned to the halls of the original hero’s people, stolen by the 
enemy or buried with the dead. 
The new hero will need to unlock any abilities contained within a Famous Weapon or Armour just as their 
forbear did, see page 134 of the Loremaster’s Guide.
Also the older hero can pass on some of their knowledge and wisdom to the new hero, if they are not too tainted 
by darkness: take the old hero’s Proficiency Bonus minus the total number of his Permanent Shadow points. If 
the total is a positive number, multiply it by 50 and award that amount as XP to the new hero. 
If the old hero was slain making a heroic sacrifice, then do not subtract the Permanent Shadow score and 
simply multiply the old hero’s Proficiency Bonus by 50 XP. This means the starting hero might begin higher 
than level 1.
Adventuring in Bree

--- PAGE 42 ---
Bree-land Region Guide
42
1d20
Letter Delivery Result
1
The letter is stolen by the Enemy. 
Depending on the contents of the letter, 
this might raise the Company’s Hunt score 
(see Rivendell Region Guide, page 110), 
create more complications later in the 
adventure, or put the recipient of the letter 
in danger.
2-5
Lost! The letter has been lost, stolen or 
otherwise, and was never received; or, 
the letter arrives too late, either at some 
point AFTER the Company has reached a 
destination, or even after his inheritance 
has been disposed of (in the case of a 
Letter of Farewell). In any case, ignore the 
effects of the letter.
6-10
The letter arrived later than expected, 
there were problems with the delivery, or 
in some way might have raised suspicion 
on the recipient. Treat any success on the 
Traditions check as a basic success, even 
if you earned higher.
11-19
The letter arrived safely. Apply the effects 
of the letter as described.
20
The letter arrived in time, and the 
recipient was very impressed by the 
gesture: Treat any success on the 
Traditions check as if you got the best 
possible result.
Chance-meeting in the Inn
There are queer folk about… and there have been even 
stranger travellers through Bree lately.
At some point during the Fellowship phase or the 
following Adventuring phase, the hero has a chance-
meeting in Bree with some stranger who will play a 
significant role in their future fate. (The Loremaster may 
use the special guests on the Common-room Guests 
table on page 36 if they do not already have a Loremaster 
character in mind.) In effect, this undertaking is a request 
to the Loremaster to give that player an interesting and 
unexpected encounter. Chance-meetings are not always 
beneficial or pleasant; Thorin Oakenshield may have met 
Gandalf the Grey in Bree, but he might equally have met 
some agent of the Enemy who might have tempted him 
with Thrór’s Ring, and planned to trick the Dwarves into 
the service of Mordor.
Learn the Paths of the Chetwood
A companion who spends a Fellowship phase living 
in Archet and exploring the woods around the village 
gains Advantage for all Survival checks made in the 
Chetwood or the Old Forest for the length of the following 
Adventuring phase.
Receive Title (Regular at The Pony)
A companion who has gained the trust of the Innkeeper 
during an Adventuring phase may - with the Loremaster’s 
permission – choose this undertaking and find their place 
among the regular guests of The Prancing Pony.
 
This undertaking grants lesser benefits in comparison to 
those bestowed upon a hero by other, more formal, titles, 
but is still useful to a wandering hero: 
• 
In addition to Bree-folk treating the hero as at least 
Friendly (or better), the companion has a room set 
aside at The Pony and can often find someone in 
the common room willing to buy him a round or a 
warm meal. In game terms, the hero never has to 
pay for their stay at the inn but neither do they earn 
any income from their title either. The room is of the 
common variety, but the companion can spend the 
difference to be housed in one of the fine rooms for 
their stay if they like.

--- PAGE 43 ---
43
- Dwarves of the Blue Mountains -
“Then there’s a travelling company of dwarves going West come in this evening.”
Traders on the Road
There are almost always Dwarves on the Road and thus there are always 
Dwarves visiting the Bree-land. Most of them are coming to, or returning to, 
their ancestral halls in Ered Luin — the Blue Mountains.
The first Dwarves of the Ered Luin were the hardy warriors of 
Nogrod and Belegost, the two great mountain-cities of the First 
Age. Master craftsmen, and great haters of Orcs and Dragons, 
their power was ended when their mansions were drowned 
in the breaking of Beleriand. In the twilight of the Third Age, 
the Dwarves of the Ered Luin are loyal subjects of the King of 
Durin’s Folk, as their halls were founded anew when Thráin 
the Second led his people to these mountains after the 
destruction of Erebor. His son, Thorin Oakenshield, ruled 
here for a time and the Blue Mountains became a realm of 
plenty and peace, drawing wayward Dwarves from as far 
south as Dunland.
Though many who dwelt in the Blue Mountains have now 
returned to Erebor, some remain there still. Those Dwarves 
who remain take special comfort and interest in restoring 
the relics of their past, be they ancient weapons or forgotten 
songs. They search the mountains for traces of their lost 
cities, probing deep into their roots and climbing their 
most remote peaks. For them, there is no greater joy than 
discovering runes engraved on a broken stone,  or finding 
the entrance to a collapsed mine. And they would face any 
threat to wrest those jewels from the grasp of forgetfulness. 
For many others, the itinerant life of their forefathers calls to 
them: after the coming of Smaug, many Dwarves began to 
wander. Some became tinkers, working for room and board in 
the villages of Men, but others became merchants, selling the 
wares of their more settled kin for gold and silver — getting 
to see the world from the Road.
Dwarves of the Blue Mountains

--- PAGE 44 ---
Bree-land Region Guide
44
Description
Most Dwarves of the Blue Mountains live a secluded 
life in their holds, like other members of their folk. What 
makes them peculiar is their relative lack of interest in 
those activities that other Dwarves seem to obsess over — 
they eschew most martial practices, and do not dedicate 
much of their time in the furthering of their crafts, with the 
exception of those skills aimed to restore and preserve the 
work of their ancestors.
Their style of dress is fair and elegant by Dwarven 
standards, as they do not feel the necessity of being ever 
ready to arm or work the anvil. Detailed embroidery is 
common on their robes and fine etching adorns their 
metalwork. Judging their looks, other Dwarves are quick 
to dismiss them as ‘soft’, although never to their faces.
Names of the Blue Mountains
The Dwarves of Ered Luin are close kin to those of Erebor 
and the Iron Hills and share many outer names with them. 
However there are some names that they have picked up 
as they journeyed west. See page 39 of the Adventures 
in Middle-earth Player’s Guide for more information on 
Dwarven naming conventions.
Male Names: Anar, Beli, Bláin, Bruni, Dori, Dwalin, Farin, 
Flói, Frár, Ginar, Grór, Hanar, Hepti, Iari, Lófar, Lóni, Náli, 
Niping, Óin, Ónar, Regin, Svior, Thrór, Veig, Vidar.
Female Names: Ase, Astrid, Bergdis, Bodil, Dagna, Dís, Eir, 
Eydis, Frea, Fritha, Gard, Grid, Herja, Hón, Idúnn, Ingrid, 
Kára, Kóna, Már, Mist, Olrún, Onna, Ragni, Róta, Sigrún.
Standard of Living
The Dwarves of the Blue Mountains have gradually 
grown wealthy over the years. Much of their gold comes 
from trade and from the ruins of abandoned holds or the 
reopened mines of their ancestors, patiently rediscovered 
and then hoarded within their vaults. As a result, their 
culture ranks as Prosperous.
Bonus Equipment: A fur-lined travelling cloak, travelling 
gear for the current season, a bedroll, fine clothes, a 
backpack, comfortable boots, 5d6 silver pennies, plus 
choose any two: another 2d6 silver pennies, artisan’s 
tools of your choice, a musical instrument, a fine beard 
comb and mirror, a flask of dwarven spirits.
Dwarf Traits
Your Player-hero has certain traits deriving from your 
Dwarven ancestry.
Ability Score Increase – Your Constitution score 
increases by 2.
Adventuring Age – 50 to 100. Dwarves generally start 
their life on the road in their fifties, and do not usually

--- PAGE 45 ---
45
consider retiring before their nineties. Around that time, 
they feel they can no longer stay away from their family, 
or want to dedicate themselves solely to the perfection 
of their crafts. But Dwarves can remain active until they 
are more than two hundred years old, and may return to 
adventuring if a great need arises, like the opportunity 
to avenge an old insult or injury, or to recover a treasure 
or reclaim a long-lost dwarf-hold. A healthy Dwarf who 
avoids a violent death can reach 250 years of age.
Size – Dwarves generally stand between 4 to 5 feet tall 
and can weigh upwards of 160 lbs. Your size is Medium. 
Speed – Your base walking speed is 25 feet. Your speed is 
not reduced by wearing heavy armour.
Night Vision (Dwarf) - Accustomed to life underground, 
you have superior vision in dim conditions. You can see in 
dim light within 60 feet of you as if it were bright light, but 
you cannot see in the dark.
Dwarven Resilience – You have advantage on saving 
throws against poison, and you have resistance against 
poison damage.
Weapons of the Trade – You have proficiency with axes, 
hand-axes and mattocks.
Tool Proficiency – You gain proficiency with the artisan’s 
tools of your choice: jeweller’s tools, mason’s tools, 
miner’s tools, smith’s tools, or woodcarver’s tools. You 
also gain proficiency in one musical instrument of your 
choice.
Singer of the Old Songs – You have proficiency in the 
Performance skill.
Tales of Days Gone By – You have proficiency in either 
the History or Lore skill (your choice) and increase your 
Intelligence score by 1.
Languages – You can speak, read, and write Westron, the 
Common Tongue of Eriador. You can also speak, read and 
write the secret language of your people, which has never 
been shared with any others.
Cultural Attitudes
Those Dwarves of the Blue Mountains who travel the Road must necessarily hold forth with those communities 
that they visit. But they are rarely hosts — the famously secret Dwarves are loathe to invite almost anyone to 
visit them in their halls; when they do they treat their visitors as they themselves expect to be treated.
Men 
of 
Rhovanion*
Men 
of the 
South**
Bree-folk
Dúnedain
Other
Dwarves
High 
Elves
Wood 
Elves
Hobbits of 
the Shire
Dwarf of 
the Blue 
Mountains
Neutral
Unknown
Friendly
Neutral
Favoured
Neutral
Mistrust
Friendly
*This category includes Bardings, Beornings, Men of the Lake and Woodmen.
** This category includes Men of Minas Tirith and Riders of Rohan.
Dwarves of the Blue Mountains

--- PAGE 46 ---
Bree-land Region Guide
46
Cultural Virtues
Dwarves of the Blue Mountains may choose Deep Songs 
(described below), Broken Spells, Durin’s Way, Old Hatred 
and The Stiff Neck of Dwarves (see the Player’s Guide, 
pages 105-107).
Deep Songs
...the music began all at once, so sudden and sweet that 
Bilbo forgot everything else, and was swept away into dark 
lands under strange moons…
Strange as it might seem to others, music comes easily to 
your folk. You have practiced your instrument long enough 
that you now know how to bring out your innermost 
desires and aspirations.
During a Fellowship phase, if you choose the Heal 
Corruption undertaking you may make a DC 13 musical 
instrument check with Advantage. If successful, you 
remove Shadow points as normal and any companions 
that undertake to Heal Corruption with you gain 
Advantage on their checks. Furthermore, during the 
following Adventuring phase you can remember such 
camadrie to grant Inspiration one time to yourself and 
those heroes that shared your undertaking.
Cultural Heirlooms
Few Dwarves of the Blue Mountains fought in the terrible 
battle before the gates of Moria. Instead, they can select a 
Harp of the Halls (see below), a Helm of Awe or an ancient 
set of heavy mail: a Dwarf-wrought Hauberk (see page 158 
of the Player’s Guide).
Harp of the Halls
You have been rewarded with one of the finest harps 
crafted in the Blue Mountains. Their sweet music is 
beautiful to all ears, even those who do not normally hold 
the music of Dwarves in high regard.
You may use the Harp of the Halls to entertain the 
assembled folk during an Audience. Your performance 
automatically grants Advantage to both the Introduction 
check and the Final Audience check. You also have 
Advantage on performing Company songs (see page 26 of 
the Rivendell Region Guide).

--- PAGE 47 ---
47
Foes to freeze
- the Heart -
“For there’s been worse than robbers about. 
Wolves were howling round the fences last 
winter. And there’s dark shapes in the woods…”
The quiet safety of the Bree-land is kept by the Dúnedain 
and their allies. If the Company strays from Town or Road 
they may face some of these threats as well. There are 
both evil creatures and evil Men about, though few great 
captains of the Enemy.
Dangers of the Wild
The four villages and the fields around them are safe 
enough, but Bree-land is still an island of civilisation in 
the Wild and there are many dangerous foes within a 
day’s march of the Hill.
Bluebell Wood Oakmen
These creatures hide in the depths of the Far Chetwood, 
amidst an ancient oakwood full of bluebells. They are 
small, wearing wide-brimmed soft hats deep red in colour. 
In their natural form, their skin is like oak and their eyes 
glint with a cold inhuman light above a red nose and slit 
mouth.
Oakman
Small Nature Spirit
STR 
9 (-1)
DEX 
15 (+2)
CON 
10 (+0)
INT 
10 (+0)
WIS 
18 (+4)
CHA 
11 (+0)
Armour Class 12
Hit Points 14 (4d6)
Speed 25 ft
Condition Immunities Charmed, Frightened, 
Paralysed, Poisoned
Damage Resistances non-magical bludgeoning, 
piercing and slashing
Skills Perception +6, Stealth +4
Senses darkvision 60 ft, passive Perception 16
Languages understands Westron, does not speak
Challenge 1/2 (100 XP)
Glamour. An Oakman can choose to appear more 
Hobbitish, though in this form they still appear unkempt 
and uncivilised. This illusion can be dispelled as a bonus 
action, and is automatically dispelled when the Oakman 
attacks.
Actions
Multiattack. The Oakman makes two attacks with either 
its Short Sword or its Bow.
Short Sword. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 5 (1d6+2) piercing damage.
Short Bow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, range 
80/320 ft, one target. Hit: 5 (1d6+2) piercing damage.
Reactions
Ill-turn of Luck (Recharge 5-6). Strange fates befall 
those who attack the Oakmen. If an attack roll misses the 
Oakman, it may use this ability: the attacking creature 
must make another attack roll against its own AC. On a 
success, it does damage to itself.
Foes to Freeze the Heart

--- PAGE 48 ---
Bree-land Region Guide
48
Swamp Goblins
It’s the rare Orc that doesn’t chafe under the command 
of those Higher Up. Many would take the chance to set 
off with a few trusty lads and run things for themselves, 
and some do. Swamp Goblins are such deserters from the 
armies of the Dark Lord, made small, desperate and keen 
by their plight. 
They live in fens and marshes, scrounging whatever they 
can eat from fetid pools and hoping to waylay travellers 
for fresh meat. But they have some cleverness about them 
— they’ve learnt the alchemy of using swamp gas to make 
lights with which to lure the unwary.
Swamp Goblin
Small humanoid (Orc-kind)
STR 
6 (-2)
DEX 
19 (+4)
CON 
13 (+1)
INT 
10 (+0)
WIS 
15 (+2)
CHA 
8 (-1)
Armour Class 15 (Leather jerkin)
Hit Points 18 (4d6+4)
Speed 30 ft, swim 30 ft
Skills Perception +4, Stealth +6
Senses darkvision 60 ft, passive Perception 14
Languages Orcish, Westron
Challenge 1 (200 XP)
Corpse Light (Recharge 5-6). A Swamp Goblin can 
use its bonus action to cause a light to appear anywhere 
within 60 feet of it. Any hostile creature who is not Blinded 
must make a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw. On a failure, 
the creature must use its movement to approach the light, 
repeating the save at the end of its turn.
Sneak Attack. Once per turn, the Swamp Goblin deals 
an extra 3 (1d6) damage when it hits a target with a 
weapon attack and has Advantage on the attack roll, or 
when the target is within 5 feet of an ally of the Goblin 
that isn’t Incapacitated and the Goblin doesn’t have 
Disadvantage on the attack roll.
Stealthy. The Swamp Goblin may use its bonus action 
each round to Hide.
Actions
Jagged Knife. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 6 (1d4+4) piercing damage.
Bow of Horn. Ranged Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, range 
80/320 ft, one target. Hit: 7 (1d6+4) piercing damage. 
The victim must also make a DC 13 Constitution saving 
throw or be poisoned for 1 minute. 
Two-headed Troll
Most examples of the this ancient breed have returned to 
the stone from which they were born (see Ettins on page 
76 of the Rivendell Region Guide) but a few are still active. 
They’re rarely seen in the Bree-land, preferring the high 
fells further north. They are among the largest of their 
kind, with a cunning that comes from putting their two 
heads together.
Two-headed Troll
Huge Giant (Troll-kind)
STR 
26 (+8)
DEX 
10 (+0)
CON 
23 (+6)
INT 
9 (-1)
WIS 
13 (+1)
CHA 
4 (-3)
Armour Class 14 (natural armour)
Hit Points 112 (9d12+54)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Riddle +2
Senses passive Perception 16 (see below)
Languages Westron
Challenge 5 (1,800 XP)
Argumentative. A Two-headed Troll is prone to getting 
into fights with itself. A creature can make a DC 13 
Intelligence (Riddle) or Charisma (Persuasion) check 
to distract the Troll. On a success, the Troll must make a 
DC 10 Wisdom saving throw at the start of its next turn 
or spend its turn arguing with itself. If the Troll is injured, 
it has Advantage on this saving throw.
Horrible Strength. If the Two-headed Troll makes a 
successful melee attack, it may use its bonus action 
to cause 8 additional damage of the same type to the 
target.
Two-headed. Trolls with two heads are much harder to 
catch unawares. Any attempts at Stealth are made with 
Disadvantage and the Troll gains Advantage on both 
active and passive Perception checks.
Actions
Multiattack. The Troll makes two attacks with its club.
Troll-club. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 5 
ft, one target. Hit: 21 (2d12+8) bludgeoning damage. If 
the target is a creature, it must make a DC 18 Strength 
saving throw or be knocked prone.
White Wolf of the North
These huge Wargs usually patrol the lands of the far north 
and only descend on civilised lands when the Enemy 
sends cold winds howling out of the North and the East.

--- PAGE 49 ---
49
White Wolf of the North
Large Monstrosity (Warg-kind)
STR 
15 (+2)
DEX 
19 (+4)
CON 
20 (+5)
INT 
11 (+0)
WIS 
13 (+1)
CHA 
10 (+0)
Armour Class 14
Hit Points 63 (6d10+30)
Speed 40 ft
Skills Perception +3, Stealth +6
Senses passive Perception 13
Languages Wargspeech
Challenge 2 (450 XP)
Craven. If the White Wolf starts its turn with 31 or less 
hit points, it must make a DC 10 Wisdom saving throw. 
On a failure, it becomes Frightened and must use its Dash 
or Disengage action to move away from any enemies. 
If movement is impossible, it will take the Dodge action 
instead.
Fear of Fire. The White Wolf is fearful of fire. If a torch 
or other flame comes within 10 feet of it, the wolf suffers 
Disadvantage on its attack rolls. In addition, the White 
Wolf is not able to use its Pack Tactics ability. 
Pack Tactics. The White Wolf has Advantage on an attack 
roll against a creature if at least one of the White Wolf’s 
allies is within 5 feet of the creature and the ally isn’t 
incapacitated.
Actions
Multiattack. The White Wolf makes two attacks: one bite 
and one claw attack.
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 9 (2d6+2) piercing damage. If the target is a 
creature, it must make a DC 12 Strength saving throw or 
be knocked prone.
Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 10 (1d12+4) slashing damage.
Reactions
Commanding Voice. The White Wolf can snarl in the 
language of its kind to issue commands. It may use its 
reaction when a non-hostile creature, that it can see 
within 30 feet, is about to make an attack roll or a saving 
throw. The target can add a d6 Command Die to that 
roll, provided it can hear and understand the message. 
A creature can benefit from only one Command Die at 
a time, and creatures that possess Commanding Voice 
cannot benefit from this effect.
Emissaries of the Enemy
The Bree-land has never loomed large in the war councils 
of the Enemy, but there may come a day when His greatest 
servants will walk the village streets. Until that day, there 
are only a few creatures of special power nearby.
The Ogre of Midgewater
When the storm-clouds gather overhead and half of Bree 
huddles in the common-room of The Pony, talk eventually 
turns to a creature that is said to haunt the pools and meres 
of the Midgewater. The tales tell of weapons bouncing off 
its blubbery hide and great grasping claws that can drown 
a man or tear him to pieces. As the night grows longer, the 
tales get taller and the townspeople laugh at the spooky 
stories. But observant folk will notice that any Rangers in 
the room only have a grim expression on their silent faces.
The Ogre of Midgewater
Large Giant
STR 
21 (+5)
DEX 
10 (+0)
CON 
25 (+7)
INT 
5 (-3)
WIS 
7 (-2)
CHA 
7 (-2)
Armour Class 13 (natural armour)
Hit Points 150 (12d10+84)
Speed 30 ft, swim 30 ft
Skills Athletics +8
Damage Immunities bludgeoning
Senses darkvision 60 ft, passive Perception 8
Languages —
Challenge 8 (3,900 XP)
Amphibious. The Ogre can hold its breath for such long 
periods that it is effectively a water-breather in combat 
situations.
Rubbery Skin. This creature’s rubbery flesh is immune 
to bludgeoning damage.
Swimmer. This creature can move through aquatic 
environments without penalty.
Actions
Grasp. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one Medium or smaller target. Hit: The target becomes 
grappled (escape DC 17). As a bonus action, the Ogre may 
inflict 16 (2d10+5) bludgeoning damage on the grappled 
creature.
Shield Smasher (Recharge after a short or long 
rest). To destroy a shield, the Ogre makes a Slam attack, 
concentrating all its damage on the shield itself. If the Ogre 
deals 20 or more damage, the targeted shield is destroyed 
and worthless. A legendary shield might be salvageable but 
cannot be used for the remainder of the combat.
Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 16 (2d10+5) bludgeoning damage.
Reactions
Great Might (Recharge 5-6). The Ogre may use its 
reaction when it takes damage from a melee or ranged 
weapon attack: the damage amount is reduced by 5, to a 
minimum of 1 point of damage taken.
Foes to Freeze the Heart

--- PAGE 50 ---
Bree-land Region Guide
50
The Old Troll
How old is the Old Troll? Not even he knows. The Trolls, 
it is said, were made in mockery of the Ents, and Ents live 
long indeed. Even the counterfeits of the Enemy might 
measure their lifespans in centuries or longer.
The Old Troll
Large Giant (Troll-kind)
STR 
19 (+4)
DEX 
12 (+1)
CON 
20 (+5)
INT 
10 (+0)
WIS 
11 (+0)
CHA 
8 (-1)
Armour Class 16 (heavy mail)
Hit Points 126 (12d10+60)
Speed 30 ft
Saving Throws Dexterity +4
Skills Perception +3, Stealth +4
Senses darkvision 60 ft, passive Perception 13
Languages Westron, Orcish
Challenge 6 (2,300 XP)
Great Leap. The Old Troll is capable of jumping huge 
distances. He may make a special Dash action to go twice 
his normal movement in a single jump. Any opponents in 
melee combat with the Old Troll when he uses this ability 
get Opportunity Attacks as normal.
Reckless. The Old Troll may use his bonus action to gain 
Advantage on attack rolls until the start of his next turn 
but all attacks on him also have Advantage.
Sunlight Curse. Stone-trolls become Petrified and turn 
into stone if they are touched by the bright light of the 
sun. Once the sun rises, the Old Troll must make a DC 
10 Dexterity saving throw at the beginning of his turn in 
order to find enough cover to avoid being turned to stone. 
On a failure, the Old Troll becomes Petrified.
Actions
Multiattack. The Old Troll makes two attacks: one with 
his troll-knife and one slam.
Troll-knife. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 13 (2d8+4) piercing damage. 
Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 15 (2d10+4) bludgeoning damage.
Reactions
Deadly Misfortune (Lair Only, Recharge 5-6). 
Trolls don’t usually know any magic, but the Old Troll 
remembers a few tricks he learned in ancient Angmar. If a 
character attacks the Troll and misses, he may cause one 
of his piles of bones to suddenly slip and collapse on top 
of the character, crashing and clattering very loudly. The 
target must make a DC 13 Strength saving throw or be 
knocked Prone. The area within 10 feet of the target is now 
difficult terrain and the target makes all attack rolls at 
Disadvantage until it is outside the area of effect.
The Old Troll’s heavy mail and knife come from the forges 
of long-vanished Angmar, and he vaguely recalls fighting 
in one war or another, but the details are as hazy and 
forgotten as his true name. He is, as far as he can recall, 
the oldest of the Stone-trolls of Eriador.
Ill-favoured Men
While most folk of Bree are simple farmers and crafters, a 
few persons of evil intent lurk waiting for an opportunity 
to make trouble.
Brigands
"Some were just poor bodies running away from trouble; 
but most were bad men, full o’ thievery and mischief."
At the edge of the Bree-land can be found scoundrels 
who did not fit into civilisation, and not all of them are 
the noble Dúnedain. Brigands haunt both the East Road 
and the Greenway, looking to free some Dwarves or other 
travellers from their gold and silver. When times are bad, 
they poach the Chetwood, risk the dangers of Midgewater 
Marsh or content themselves with stealing livestock.

--- PAGE 51 ---
51
Brigands won’t often challenge a well-arrayed Company 
unless they outnumber the heroes by a significant margin. 
But if the companions are travelling with merchants and not 
calling attention to themselves, they might find themselves 
in an impromptu Audience with a bandit leader.
Motivation: This is the only way I can get what I deserve.
Expectations: “Cold coin warms the heart” +2 if the 
heroes give the Brigand something of value; “Don’t give us 
any trouble” -2 if the heroes draw weapons or resist.
Brigand
Medium Human
STR 
17 (+3)
DEX 
11 (+0)
CON 
16 (+3)
INT 
10 (+0)
WIS 
11 (+0)
CHA 
10 (+0)
Armour Class 15 (Thick Hide, Shield)
Hit Points 45 (6d8+18)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Intimidation +2, Perception +2
Senses passive Perception 12
Languages Westron
Challenge 1 (200 XP)
Bulky Armour. The Brigand has Disadvantage on 
Dexterity checks
Actions
Battle Cry (1/day). The Brigand may use its action to 
activate this ability. Each Brigand within 30 feet of it gains 
Advantage on attack rolls until the start of the Brigand’s 
next turn. The Brigand may then make one attack as a 
bonus action.
Multiattack. The Brigand makes two attacks with its 
axe.
Axe. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 7 (1d8+3) slashing damage.
Mountebank
There are those who use the tales of Wizards and the 
magics of Elves, Dwarves and others to their own gain. 
Most Mountebanks are tricksters that rely on clever ruses 
to make the simple folk believe in their illusions, others 
are convincing charmers who happen to be down on their 
luck, but if you lend them a bit of coin they have a plan 
that will pay you back tenfold…
Mountebank
Medium Human
STR 
10 (+0)
DEX 
17 (+3)
CON 
15 (+2)
INT 
13 (+1)
WIS 
11 (+0)
CHA 
20 (+5)
Armour Class 15 (Leather Corslet)
Hit Points 71 (11d8+22)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Deception +11, Persuasion +8, Riddle +4, 
Sleight of Hand +11
Senses passive Perception 10
Languages Westron
Challenge 5 (1,800 XP)
Expert. The Mountebank doubles its Proficiency Bonus 
for Deception and Sleight of Hand (included above).
Nimble Escape. The Mountebank can take the 
Disengage or Hide action as a bonus action on each of 
its turns.
Actions
Multiattack. The Mountebank makes two dagger 
attacks.
Dagger. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 5 (1d4+3) piercing damage.
Prestidigitation. As long as the Mountebank has 
had time to prepare the area, it may spend its action 
to activate a series of distracting effects — clouds of 
smoke, loud noises, strange clatterings, objects moving 
seemingly of their own accord or the like. Each enemy 
within 60 feet of the Mountebank must make a DC 
15 Wisdom saving throw or become Stunned until 
the beginning of the Mountebank’s next turn. The 
Mountebank can then use its bonus action to make a 
single Dagger attack.
Voice of Command (Recharge 5-6). A Mountebank 
can bring all of its considerable force of personality 
to bear on a single creature. Its voice booms with 
authority or softly suggests wiser courses of action. The 
creature must make a DC 15 Charisma saving throw 
or become Charmed by the Mountebank for 1 minute. 
The creature will not attack its allies and realises that the 
Mountebank affected it only after the effect expires.
Reactions
Uncanny Dodge. If the Mountebank can see an attacker 
that has struck it, it may use its reaction to halve that 
attack’s damage.
Foes to Freeze the Heart

--- PAGE 52 ---
Bree-land Region Guide
52
An
- Empty Land -
“In those days no other Men had settled 
dwellings so far west, or within a hundred 
leagues of the Shire.”
The emptiness of the lands about Bree can, at first glimpse, 
seem to pose a challenge to a Loremaster running a Bree-
land adventure or to players heavily invested in assisting 
with creative descriptions of the sights and sounds around 
them. The wide, lonely spaces, filled with nothing more 
than the wind and the voice of a lone crow can provide 
a portentous and meaningful atmosphere. Or indeed one 
that contrasts strongly with the warmth and close cosiness 
of The Prancing Pony.
Comparing the rustic and homely appeal of Bree to the 
wide emptiness of the lands that surround it, can really 
give your adventures a new aspect. A journey from the 
gossiping streets of Bree, where folk are all too keenly 
interested in one another’s business, out into the empty 
places where help is always too far away can make the basis 
of a great Bree-land story. To strangers, Bree-land is a quiet 
and empty place. But for the Bree-folk, it is their ancient 
homeland — a storied place though never recorded in the 
annals of the Mighty and the Wise. Heroes that travel these 
lands regularly will find challenges here — of a smaller and 
personal scale to be sure, but challenges all the same.
The Small Things
Modest flora and fauna, described in more detail than 
one might choose to use in a more epic setting, also help 
impart a different feel to the Bree-land. Nettles, thistles 
and brambles, daisies and dandelions, dock leaves and 
celandines can impart a gentler, storybook feel. Similarly, 
there are no heroes here; just farmers dreaming of a good 
harvest, crafters trying to perfect their trade and peddlars 
happy to see familiar faces over and over again.
The Bree-land is less geographically dramatic than other 
places in Middle-earth, and the lack of immediate physical 
hazards in the landscape can allow these quieter aspects 
to come to the fore.
Journey Event Tables
The following tables provide examples for each Journey 
Event customised for the Bree-land. You can use them to 
create events that involve the people and places of this 
Guide, modified as needed by your current story and the 
Company’s previous deeds. Memories are retentive in the 
Bree-land and words and actions of the heroes will be long 
remembered by the worthies of the four villages, for good 
or ill. Also consider the background of any heroes that 
are local to this land — Bree-folk, Hobbits of the Shire and 
Dúnedain might already have a history with those they’ve 
chanced across during a trip.
Several of the entries draw from the locations and 
Loremaster characters of the adventures contained in this 
supplement. In these cases, the connection is highlighted 
by an colour-coded icon representing the adventure, 
with a number in the centre indicating which Part of the 
adventure it is most suited for.
Icon Key:
Old Bones and Skin
Strange Men, Strange Roads
Holed Up in Staddle

--- PAGE 53 ---
53
A Chance Encounter
The Company meets a fellow traveller or group of travellers. 
The Scout must make a Dexterity (Stealth) check to avoid 
them, or any hero may make a Charisma (Persuasion) 
check to interact with them.
If the interaction is successful, the first roll of the next event 
is made with Advantage. Failure results in Disadvantage.
	
Albert Undertree 
Albert Undertree is the heir apparent of one of the most 
prominent Hobbit families of Staddle. Kind and outgoing, 
he’s the very model of well-to-do Hobbit civility. His family 
owns the largest apple-tree orchard in the Bree-land and 
their annual cider production is often the talk of the four 
villages. If you’re playing through Holed Up in Staddle, 
Albert is not his usual cheery self, see page 118.
     Grór the Dwarf
This surly Dwarf is a follower of Gorlanc the Sorceror, and 
is a grave-robber, killer and thief. But he’s also cautious. If 
he meets the Company in one of the villages or on the Road, 
he’s most likely to pretend ignorance and innocence, until 
he’s ready to get his revenge (see page 69).
If the Company encounters Grór after the events of Old 
Bones and Skin, then his reaction will be dependent on 
their treatment of him. He might begin to plot revenge or 
flee in terror.
Hob Nettles
Hobart is one of the crew of The Pony, and the most 
likely one that Butterbur will send out on errands. So 
the Company is most likely to see the big man roaming 
around the four villages collecting supplies or retrieving 
a hired-out pony. But sometimes the Innkeeper sends him 
on a longer trip, to deliver packages or letters to the Shire 
or the Forsaken Inn.
Old Marbo Middlebrock
Marbo is a cellar-Hobbit and perhaps the best potter in 
Bree. He’s getting on in years and none of his daughters 
were interested in the family business (being more taken 
with other fields, and the Farmers in them). So he took 
Reed Thistledown from Upstairs on as his apprentice, to 
his great regret. Reed’s a lackluster apprentice, though 
the young Man does try hard when Marbo can get him to 
focus on the work at hand.
If the duo is found outside of Bree, they’re likely on the 
way to get more clay from the banks of the Brandywine or 
searching for special minerals to use in making glazes.
Primrose Tunnelly
The Tunnellies are known as a standoffish lot, full of 
Staddle-pride and not much for the other villages. Young 
Primrose is different, however. She still thinks there’s no 
better Smial in the four corners of Bree-land (and, if you 
press her, she might even be bold enough to claim that the 
Shire has nothing like it either). But she has many friends, 
Big and Little, in Bree, Combe and even far-away Archet 
and always has a smile for a stranger or the latest news 
(perhaps gossip even) for her friends.
Violet Ferny
Young Violet may only have a dozen or so summers to her 
name, but she’s well known through the Bree-land all the 
same. She’s brash and impertinent, known to argue with 
Matthew Mugwort at the slightest provocation and often 
found in places she shouldn’t be. Violet is tired of life in 
the four villages and will likely latch onto any Outlanders 
that happen to be nice to her. She dreams of one day 
leaving the Bree-land and going on adventures herself. 
Violet doesn’t have very many friends, though Anna 
Wintermoss has often stood up for the girl when she gets 
in trouble with the Wardens or the Reeve.
Journey Event Table Entry 1 (or less)
3
7
An Empty Land

--- PAGE 54 ---
Bree-land Region Guide
54
Of Herbs and Stewed Rabbit
The Hunter has an opportunity to gather food. They must 
make a Wisdom (Survival) check. You have Advantage if 
the Company won Feasts Fit for the Kings of Ancient Times, 
or Disadvantage if you face Meagre Supplies and Poor 
Meals.
If successful, you either gather food (restore a level of 
Exhaustion or 1 Hit Die to each hero) or collect herbs 
(Loremaster’s choice of herbs found). If you fail then the 
Arrival roll gains a -1 penalty.
Bree-hill 
The Prancing Pony sets a mighty fine table, and it’s hard to 
find any game on the Hill itself that isn’t part of someone 
else’s larder. But a determined hunter might catch a vole or 
rabbit in the long grass on the north edge or a brace of rats 
closer to town. On the eastern edge of the Hill, a kind of 
pipe-weed peculiar to Staddle grows, harvested from time 
immemorial by the Southlinch clan.
Bree-land
The farmlands around the four villages are full of food, 
though whether on the hoof or in the ground it surely 
belongs to someone else. Farmers here keep sheep, pigs 
and chicken with a few families keeping goats or cattle 
instead. Fields are full of various grains: wheat, barley and 
oat with smaller plots holding beans, peas, cabbages and 
beets. Some families have orchards of apple, apricot or 
plum trees. Few herbs of special note can be found here, as 
the Bree-folk consider them undesirable weeds. 
	
Chetwood
Long ago, the Chetwood was the King’s private hunting 
grounds and the forest still teems with game. Deer and 
a great many wild pigs roam the northern reaches of 
the wood with badgers, hedgehogs, rabbits and voles 
throughout the area. Woodcocks and small owls roost 
amid the trees as well. Mushrooms and root vegetables 
grow in the woodland shade.
Kindler’s Lace, Kingcups and the occasional patch of 
Shadow-thorn can be found in the forest. 
	
East Road
It’s unlikely for the heroes to come across large game near 
the road, though the Hunter might be lucky enough to come 
across a pheasant or grouse nesting in the scrub nearby. 
Hares also like the open land and you must be very quick to 
catch one. Sheep sorrel, common sorrel and nettles often 
grow along the road as well.
A Hunter searching for herbs can sometimes find Kindler’s 
Lace or Athelas.
The Greenway
The North Road is wilder and less travelled than the East 
Road. Rabbits hide in burrows in the shallow dikes near the 
road, and hares in the high grass beyond, along with black 
and red grouse.
Sometimes Athelas, Kingcups and Kindler’s Lace can be 
found here, especially as you get closer to Fornost Erain.
The Outlands
There are few Farmers in these lands and thus fewer fields 
as well. Hobbits out of Buckland come here for the fowling 
and the Hunter might find some success at catching a 
meal on the wing as well. If the Company is close enough 
to the Baranduin, then the fishing is good along the entire 
length of the slow-moving river. There are herds of sheep 
here towards the end of summer when their usual grazing 
fields have grown short, but they’re always accompanied 
by shepherds who won’t take kindly to the companions 
hunting amidst their flocks. 
Reedmace and Water Lilies can be found along the 
riverbanks and streams, Kindler’s Lace and Kingcups can 
be in the drier hillocks. The Dúnedain travel these lands 
(especially of late since the work at Girdley Island has 
begun) and it might be possible to find Athelas here.
Journey Event Table Entry 2
3
2

--- PAGE 55 ---
55
An Obstacle
Something blocks the path ahead. The Guide must make a 
Wisdom (Survival) check and each other companion must 
make either Wisdom (Survival) or Strength (Athletics). If 
the Company has horses or ponies, one hero must make 
a Wisdom (Animal Handling) check. All checks have 
Advantage if they are on Paths both Swift and True, or 
Disadvantage if they face The Wearisome Toil of Many 
Leagues. If all are successful, the Arrival roll gains +1. If 
half or more are successful, there is no penalty. If more than 
half failed then each hero gains a level of Exhaustion. If all 
fail add a -1 penalty to the Arrival roll to the Exhaustion.
Dogs who Know Their Business 
The Company’s path to their destination cuts near to 
a Farmer’s land if not through the fields themselves. 
Unfortunately, the farm’s guard-dogs are tenacious and it 
seems like the heroes might not be able to cross the field 
after all. They can either wait patiently and hope to use 
Traditions with the Farmer to get an escort across his 
land, or use Animal Handling to let the dogs know that 
the Company means well and will soon be on their way. 
	
Many Paths in the Chetwood
The companions are travelling along or inside the Chetwood 
when they realise that they no longer have a clear sense of 
which way to go. Many trails in the forest twist and turn 
around hills, large trees or thick copses, or suddenly follow 
the furrow in which a small woodland stream flows. Thus it 
easy to let the pleasant weather and cool shade underneath 
the eaves distract you from your chosen destination. Now, 
suddenly, the Guide knows that she must make a choice 
to set things right, but there were many turnings and side-
trails. An Investigation check can reveal some small clue 
that will point the way ahead, or she can instead attempt 
a Survival check with Disadvantage due to the twisting 
paths.
	
No Way Forward, No Way Back
The companions find themselves in an awkward position: 
they can see no immediate way forward and backtracking 
is difficult. Perhaps it is growing dark, or they have realised 
that they were trespassing on someone’s land and don’t 
wish to chance a confrontation by returning the way they 
came. Or it may just be that they have gotten turned about 
and cannot find their own tracks amid the broken lands. In 
any case, they must find another route since the way that 
they were taking has ended suddenly (a trail disappears 
into high grass, a thicket of trees, a sucking bog or other 
impediment). 
 
The Stile of Combe
If the Company is coming or going to the Combe valley, 
the Stile of Combe is a tempting shortcut. But the carven 
stones are slippery and the reinforcements aren’t as strong 
as they used to be, and great care must be taken so that the 
Player-heroes don’t find an even quicker way to reach the 
bottom of the vale. Alternatively, if the heroes have pack 
animals with them, they might find that the Stile won’t suit 
them and must instead plod up the shallower side of the 
valley, going hours out of their way. 
	
Troll-path
The trail that the Company is following has become 
something that only a Troll could traverse safely: going up a 
steep cliff, through thick brambles or across marshy ground. 
The Guide has a choice: do they lead the Company on the 
same Troll-path, or risk delay by finding a safer alternative 
route? If the Guide looks for another route, they must make 
an Wisdom (Survival) check. With a success, the journey 
continues unabated. With a failure, the companions each 
gain a level of Exhaustion and have to cross the Troll-path 
as above, as there’s no other way to follow the trail. 
	
Wet Underfoot
The Company is either travelling near to the Midgewater 
Marshes when a sudden thunderstorm blows in from 
the north and the dirt trail the companions have been 
following turns to mud. While the storm is overhead, the 
sky is dark and the rain obscures landmarks. Soon enough, 
the clouds are gone, but the wet muck remains. The Guide 
can either look for an alternate path that has less mud with 
a Survival check or continue to plod along the known way. 
This causes every member of the Company to gain a level of 
Exhaustion but staying on the current route does give some 
benefits: the next check for a Journey Event is made with 
Advantage.
Journey Event Table Entry 3
2
7
4
7
An Empty Land

--- PAGE 56 ---
Bree-land Region Guide
56
In Need of Help
The Company meets someone who needs aid. If they 
choose not to assist each hero must make a Wisdom saving 
throw to avoid 1 Shadow Point. If they do help, they make 
three checks, usually from Animal Handling, Insight, 
Medicine, Nature, Persuasion, Survival or Traditions.
If all checks are successful then all heroes gain Inspiration 
and +1 to the Arrival Roll. If two checks are successful then 
one hero gains Inspiration and +1 to the Arrival Roll. If one 
check is successful then +1 to Arrival Roll. If all rolls fail 
then a -1 modifier is applied to the Arrival Roll.
Iari the Harper 
An extraordinarily venerable Dwarf of the Blue Mountains, 
Iari has decided that he wishes to see the restored Kingdom 
Under the Mountain before he dies. Many, many leagues 
lie between Ered Luin and Erebor and Bree-land is just 
one small stop along the way. The assistance that Iari 
needs depends heavily on the Company: a group from 
Wilderland might simply pass the time informing the old 
Dwarf about what to expect on the road ahead, while more 
local companions might be hired as guards or porters. Iari 
isn’t in any hurry at all, and companions on a mission 
might become frustrated by his patient ways. But if they 
treat him well, he’ll play his silver harp for them and even 
the hardest heart will be moved: all the Player-heroes gain 
Inspiration, even if they failed their checks. 
The Mudbanks and the Broken Axle
Ahead, the companions spy a group of Hobbits clustered 
around a cart that seems stranded: one or more wheels are 
missing from the back of the wagon and it’s clear that the 
axle itself is broken. Stout backs (Athletics checks), good 
tools and a can-do attitude will fix the cart axle and get the 
Hobbits back on their way. Unfortunately, the Mudbanks 
hail from Combe and they are intractably glum and 
pessimistic. The heroes will find themselves subject to such 
a barrage of negativity that anyone who fails a check gains 
a point of Shadow from dourness of those they are trying 
to assist.
	
Stormclouds Overhead
The weather is threatening to take an ugly turn and the 
Company is near to folks who are ill-prepared for such an 
event. If they’re travelling with others, the caravan master 
might insist upon pushing through the storm, hoping to 
reach Bree or another village before the worst of it comes 
down. Or perhaps there are workers in the nearby fields and 
all the tools, carts, bushels, barrels and people need to be 
put away before the sky breaks open. Animal Handling, 
Nature and Survival are the only skills that will apply to 
this event.
Lost Child 
The Company either comes across a child who has become 
separated from their caregivers, or comes across those 
caregivers frantically looking for the child. Depending 
on the situation, checks of Investigation, Survival or 
Traditions may be appropriate. But the reason why the 
child is missing can also be important — if they ran away 
then Insight or Persuasion might be needed to learn the 
true situation, and further actions might be needed to set 
things right.
The Terror of Staddle 
Dark tales come from the village on the east side of Bree-
hill: eggs stolen from chicken coops, fruit disappearing 
from baskets, empty milk jugs left on the doorsteps of the 
wealthier Hobbits. Staddle believes itself to be haunted, and 
the Company will likely be asked to investigate if they’re in 
the area (or, depending on their reputation in the Bree-land, 
they may be blamed for the strange activities). In the end, 
the mystery proves to be nothing more than the pranks of 
teenagers but the companions might easily waste several 
hours discovering the truth.
Trouble with the Livestock
The companions are travelling a trail that follows a 
fence-line when they discover a break in the fence where 
livestock have pushed their way through. Or, perhaps, 
they are further into the wild and can hear the calls of 
the shepherds trying to collect their scattered herd. In 
either case, checks of Animal Handling and Survival 
are necessary to collect the animals, along with Athletics 
to temporarily repair the broken fence. The shepherds or 
farmers will be appreciative of the Company’s assistance, 
perhaps feeding them or giving them a safe place to rest at 
the end of the day.
Journey Event Table Entry 4
3

--- PAGE 57 ---
57
Agents of the Enemy
The Company approaches a hostile force. The Look-out 
must make a Wisdom (Perception) check to spot the 
enemy early. The Look-out has Advantage if the Company is 
Hidden from the Shadow or Disadvantage if they face The 
Keen Eyes of the Enemy. These modifiers apply to any rolls 
made outside of combat.
If successful, they may either sneak away or ambush them 
(in which case the enemy is Surprised). If failed, the enemy 
sets an ambush and the Player-heroes are Surprised.
Deadman Outriders
The Company has stumbled across the trail of some of 
the Deadman Gang, named after Deadman’s Dike. The 
bandits will try to avoid an armed and armoured group of 
adventurers, but a clever Company that poses as merchants 
(or a group more dedicated to scholarly pursuits) might face 
them down. There’s one Thug for each hero, and a single 
Outlaw leading them. The meeting counts as Challenge 3 
if it comes to combat. 
The Lone Wolf
A solitary White Wolf of the North (see page 49) has 
strayed into the Bree-land, driven by hunger or curiosity. 
The Company might come across signs of its presence 
before catching sight of it directly: half-eaten livestock, 
broken fence-gates, a chilling howl in the night. When they 
do finally see the huge beast, they’ll recognise that it is no 
ordinary wolf. The White Wolf is Challenge 2 or can be 
given an Unclean Stench (see page 121 of the Loremaster’s 
Guide) and be considered Challenge 3.
Oakmen Playing Tricks
The creatures known as the Bluebell Wood Oakmen (page 
47) are fey and strange. The Company is somewhere near 
the Chetwood when the Look-out spies Hobbit-like figures 
nearby. They caper and dance, humming what sounds like 
a drinking song without any words. If the heroes reveal 
themselves, the Oakmen gesture enthusiastically for the 
companions to dance, sing or play a song. As long as the 
Company keeps the Oakmen entertained, they do not 
attack. However, despite their appearance, they are not 
Hobbits and all their antics may be a prelude to further 
trickery and violence. There are three Oakmen for every 
two heroes, counting as a Challenge 3 encounter. 
 
Scoundrels Abroad 
The Company has attracted the attention of a group of 
scoundrels looking for easy marks along the Road. The 
total number of bandits is equal to the companions, most 
are Thugs (see page 74 of the Loremaster’s Guide) but at 
least one is a Brigand (see page 50) and the encounter is 
ranked as Challenge 2.
Unless the Company chooses to Surprise the scoundrels, 
this meeting can first be resolved as an Audience, with 
combat only beginning if negotiations break down.
	
The Thief in the Night
Someone is sneaking about, with ill-intent on his or her 
mind. But if the Perception check is failed, the Company 
is not attacked. Instead, a thief takes the opportunity of a 
snoozing or distracted Lookout and steals something small 
and valuable from the heroes. If you’re playing this as 
part of an adventure, it will be something important to its 
completion (such as Timeas’ map from Old Bones and Skin 
— having the map stolen from them gives the companions 
Disadvantage on all checks to find the Black Barrow).
If the Perception check succeeds, the Lookout notices the 
approach of the thief, who is wily enough to get away. 
Nothing is stolen, at least.
Two Heads are Better Than One
A Two-Headed Troll (page 48) has wandered into the 
Outlands, the Chetwood or crept into the caves of Combe 
valley. The heroes might learn about the troll from fleeing 
farmers, a Ranger looking for stout assistants or by hearing 
it talk to itself. The Troll is Challenge 5 but against a 
Company of experienced fighters you might add a Club 
Sweep (page 120 of the Loremaster’s Guide) without raising 
the Challenge rating.
Journey Event Table Entry 5
7
An Empty Land

--- PAGE 58 ---
Bree-land Region Guide
58
The Wonders of Middle-earth
The Company is presented with a spectacular sight. Each 
hero must make either a Wisdom check or an Intelligence 
(Investigation) check. These checks are made with 
Advantage in Fair Weather and Disadvantage under Foul 
Weather.
If successful, the hero recovers one level of Exhaustion or 
gains one if they fail. If all heroes succeed, gain a +1 to 
the Arrival Roll or if all fail then the Arrival Roll gains a -1 
penalty.
	
The Fields We Know
If the heroes are from the Bree-land, they have wandered 
into familiar territory. Memories of childhood come to 
mind unexpectedly as the companions remember lazy 
summer days of play, hard chores in the fields or the once 
terrifying grip of winter on the land. For those who are not 
from the area, they might get the same sense from the tales 
of their companions, or by seeing young folk about. Do the 
heroes regret their losses or do those memories stir their 
resolve to go forth and face danger once again? 
Gentle Rain or Light Snow
Clouds roll through the sky overhead, and the Company 
must make a choice: they can stop somewhere and let the 
weather come and go or they can make a go of tramping 
through it.
Heroes that choose to watch the rain or snow from the 
comfort of a campsite or house automatically recover 
a level of Exhaustion. Those who feel they must press on 
regardless automatically gain a level instead.
Scudding Clouds and Pale Sunlight
The sun rises on a day when the clouds race overhead, 
coming from the west and tumbling towards the distant 
mountains in the east. Pale light casts long shadows as the 
Company strikes camp and it’s not likely that you’ll see the 
bright eye of the Sun at all today.
Some folks will take heart at the promise of an easier time, 
others might wish for clear skies and a hot, bright day. The 
heroes have Advantage on their checks to appreciate the 
gentle weather.
Small Struggles 
The companions see a hawk circling in the sky and then, 
with a rush of wings, she descends to the ground, a field 
mouse caught in her talons. Or as they rest quietly along 
the road, they spy a bold vole creeping through the grass. 
A green form suddenly strikes, an adder now has had his 
lunch. This is everyday life and death in the Bree-land, but 
what does the Company think of it? Are they comfortable 
with the changes of fortune, thinking that it means that 
good things are surely coming their way? Or do they 
sympathise more with the mice and voles and think the 
Enemy is waiting to get them?
	
Thick Mists
Deep fog pours in from the Brandywine or over the Downs 
and it becomes impossible to see more than a few feet 
ahead of you. Heroes that decide to press on risk being 
scattered and lost. They must make the check above with 
Disadvantage. On a failure, the companions spend many 
hours making scant progress. If they’re following the Troll 
from Old Bones and Skin, he gains 3 Lead from their 
stumbling about. On a success, the heroes still don’t make 
much progress but they’re more philosophical about the 
delay. After all, it’s better to sit down on the cool grass and 
let your feet rest than it is to try and make headway in the 
obscuring vapours.
Wildflowers in Bloom 
It is bright spring day and a cool and gentle breeze blows 
from the west. Amidst and around the Company is a riot 
of colour for all the wildflowers of the Bree-land are in 
bloom. For most heroes this should be an encouraging 
sign of life and hope. But for some, the bright blooms 
signify itchy eyes and runny noses. Do the companions 
appreciate the scenery or come to dread it?
Journey Event Table Entry 6
3
4

--- PAGE 59 ---
59
A Hunt
The Hunter has a particularly excellent chance to catch a 
good meal. The Hunter must make a Wisdom (Survival) 
check. These checks are made with Advantage with Feasts 
Fit for the Kings of Ancient Times, and Disadvantage if the 
Company has Meagre Supplies and Poor Meals.
If successful by 5 or more, all heroes recover a level of 
Exhaustion and the Company gains +1 to the Arrival Roll. 
Other successes recover a level of Exhaustion only. If the 
check fails then the Company gains a level of Exhaustion. If 
the Hunter fails by 5 or more add a -1 penalty to the Arrival 
Roll.
	
Caught in the Bog
The Company is travelling near the Midgewater Marshes 
or another wetland when the Hunter spots a wild boar 
crashing through the swamp. If they choose not to hunt 
the beast, the Company goes hungry tonight, and everyone 
gains a level of Exhaustion (as if the check failed, see above).
If the Hunter pursues the quarry, the animal blunders into 
a pool of sucking mud and starts to drown. Recovering the 
beast from the mud requires an Athletics check. Fail, and 
the Hunter gains a level of Exhaustion from the effort of 
trying to rescue the animal. Succeed, and the companions 
eat well tonight!
Escaped Livestock 
The Hunter comes across the tracks of some larger animal, 
but soon realises that it is no wild beast. Instead, it is a stray 
animal that certainly belongs to some nearby Farmer. Once 
the animal is found, the Hunter must make a choice: to slay 
the animal is a Misdeed worth 1 Shadow point but the 
Company will no longer be hungry. Capturing the beast, 
finding the farmstead and returning it is a wearying affair 
(the Hunter gains a level of Exhaustion) but is likely to end 
with an appreciative Farmer who might feed the Company 
and perhaps even give them a safe place to sleep this night.
Lonely Apple Tree
The Company comes across a singular apple tree, well 
away from any fields or orchards. If it’s early or late in the 
season, there are just a few apples worth eating on the 
tree — enough to stay the heroes’ appetite for sure. If they 
chance across the apple tree at just the right time, then its 
boughs are weighed down heavily with apples. They can 
eat their fill and still have plenty to put in their pockets, 
satchels and saddlebags. If so, the Hunter makes their next 
Journey Event check with Advantage. 
 
The Old Pier 
The Hunter comes across an old stone pier built long ago. 
Perhaps it is on the Brandywine, one of its tributaries or 
perhaps even in the Midgewater Marshes — that land used 
to be more wholesome in the time of the kings. In any case, 
spending some time fishing there will prove very fruitful. 
The Hunter has Advantage on their Survival check as long 
as they’re willing to wait a few hours for the fish to start 
biting. 
	
Poachers in the Chetwood
While it’s traditionally required to get the Royal Forester’s 
permission to go hunting in the Chetwood, not everyone 
goes through the trouble of doing so. If the Company is 
not local to the Bree-land then the Hunter might not know 
that pursuing a deer in the woods is illegal and a witness 
might cause trouble for them later on. Heroes that do know 
better might be looking for smaller game and come across 
evidence of poaching. Is it a straightforward affair of an 
Outlaw about? Or is the poacher instead a good person, 
made destitute and homeless by circumstances beyond 
their control? And, of course, the difference between an 
Outlaw and an Unfortunate might only be mercy and pity.
Ranger’s Storehouse
For whatever reason (the season, weather or foul things 
lurking about) game is scarce and the Company has 
grown very hungry when the Hunter finds a strange 
cache hidden in a thicket or small cave. Inside are jars 
containing honey, flatbreads, jam, salted meats, dried 
fruits and other delicious things. Dúnedain will recognise 
it as a secret reserve of their folk, but the Company will 
be in bad shape if they don’t get something to eat soon. 
 
Heroes that steal from the storehouse gain a point of 
Shadow. This can be prevented if they have a Ranger with 
them who dedicates their next Undertaking to restocking 
the cache.
Journey Event Table Entry 7
7
2
An Empty Land

--- PAGE 60 ---
Bree-land Region Guide
60
A Fine Spot for a Camp
The Scout has spotted a location that might make an 
excellent campsite. Make an Intelligence (Investigation) 
check.
If the check succeeds by 5 or more then the Company 
recovers a level of Exhaustion and gains +1 to the Arrival 
Roll. On a basic success the Company recovers a level of 
Exhaustion. On a failure the Company gains a level of 
Exhaustion. On a failure of 5 or more the Company is in 
danger and might face enemies. They also gain Exhaustion 
and a -1 penalty to the Arrival Roll
The Barn-loft
If the Company is travelling in the Bree-land itself, they’re 
more likely to find a suitable outbuilding to stay in than 
an actual campsite. Most Farmers don’t mind putting up 
strangers in the barn as long as they’re respectful and pass 
such news as they have along. The Scout must make a 
Traditions check instead of Investigation.
Clearing in the Chetwood
The Chetwood is an ancient forest and the Company has 
chanced across one of the mysterious clearings found in the 
wood. It’s small, a few dozen feet across at most, and seems 
a perfect place to camp. Perhaps a fallen tree lies nearby 
for firewood on a cold night, or a bubbling forest stream is 
nearby. As darkness falls, the trees nearby creak and sway 
in a gentle breeze. The companions may wonder at their 
good fortune. There may be a mundane explanation for the 
clearing — a Ranger wayspot, or a (hopefully abandoned) 
camp of outlaws or poachers. But perhaps bluebells grow 
at the edge of the clearing and the Company will have 
visitors before the night is out… 
Fallow Fields
An idle plot of land might well look like the ideal campsite to 
a travelling Company but not every Farmer will appreciate 
the heroes stopping by. On a failure of 5 of more, he and 
his dogs find the companions and might chase them off. 
Generous Loremasters might allow a Traditions check or a 
few coins to pass hands in order to avoid trouble and allow 
the Company to use the site after all.
Girdley Island
For a Company exploring the Brandywine, Girdley Island 
may seem like an ideal refuge before continuing on. 
But the Dúnedain are already here. If one or more of the 
companions are Rangers then they can vouch for their 
friends and the Company can rest near to the shore — only 
Dúnedain, High Elves and those already sworn to secrecy 
(see page 13) will be allowed to inspect the construction 
project itself. 
However, if the heroes are more common folk, then strange 
things will happen once they land on the island. The birds 
seems to chatter loudly and they may get a sense of large 
beasts moving through the trees. If that doesn’t scare off the 
Company, then the Rangers might pretend to be bandits or 
smugglers and try to force the companions to leave, with 
words if possible and at swordpoint if necessary.
	
A Glen amidst the Downs
The Company has strayed close to the either the Barrow-
downs or the South Downs. These are dangerous lands, 
and the Scout is hard-pressed to find a safe place. But the 
heroes finally, as the twilight comes, find an open clearing 
nestled between the hills. Surely, if anywhere will be safe, 
it will be here. And if danger approaches in the night, there 
is nothing to prevent the Look-out from seeing it from a 
distance.
The Stone-ring 
The companions are travelling in the Outlands, along the 
edge of the fields of the Bree-land or near to the Chetwood 
when they see a ring of stones. The practical sort of hero 
will surmise that once, in the days of the King, a fort stood 
here and these are its only remains. But more fanciful folk 
call it a Fairy-ring and refuse to believe that stonecraft, 
better than any now known in the Bree-land, could have 
been made by mortals. Folk from nearby will be reminded 
of stories of Men who went to sleep in a Fairy-ring only 
to never wake up, or find that a dozen years had passed 
in a single night, or who had their dreams troubled by 
impossible memories of the wars against the Witch-king 
long ago.
Journey Event Table Entry 8
4

--- PAGE 61 ---
61
A Lingering Memory of Times Long Past
The Company discovers a relic of past ages. Each companion 
must make a Wisdom check. If successful, the hero gains 
Inspiration. If you succeed by 5 or more, you may remove 
a level of Exhaustion. If the hero fails, you must make a DC 
15 Wisdom saving throw or gain 2 points of Shadow. If 
you fail the initial check by 5 or more, you must make the 
saving throw and gain a level of Exhaustion. If at least half 
the Company succeed at the check, add +1 to the Arrival 
Roll. Otherwise apply a -1 modifier instead. 
Cardolan’s Walls 
Long ago, when the kingdom was divided, Bree stood 
close to the border between Arthedain and Cardolan. One 
of the princes caused a great dike to be dug, with a wall 
on one side and a hedge on the other. These days, much 
of the ancient construction is gone — the cut stones of 
the wall stolen to raise a house or barn or make a fence 
elsewhere or tumbled into the dike and forgotten about. But 
the Company has come across a stretch that still remains 
intact. It might serve as an obstacle for them, or it might 
remain those with deeper Lore of tragedies that set brother 
against brother many centuries ago. 
Convenient Resting Place
The companions have found a fine place to rest, a small 
clearing or hollow in the side of a hill. Everything is peaceful 
and quiet and the heroes take their ease amidst many small 
boulders and stones. Only with a bit on inspection do they 
realise that their resting place is not natural. The boulders 
are statuary, worn down by the long years and covered by 
creeping moss and lichen. The stones bear faint markings, 
which tell the tales of ancient heroes and leaders and lost 
kingdoms that are now faded and jumbled memories in the 
Bree-land.
The First Smial
Though the Tunnelly family disputes it (claiming that the 
Great Smial of Staddle is the oldest in the Bree-land), there 
are persistent rumours of a long-lost Smial that was built by 
the first Hobbit refugees. The legend says that it was larger 
than Brandy Hall and stuffed ceiling to floor with treasures 
and mathoms taken from the Hobbit homelands but it was 
lost to a terrible earthquake only a hundred years or so 
after its founding. And so, when some ancient Hobbit hole 
(or anything that looks like it could have been a Hobbit 
hole once) is found in the Bree-land, young and excitable 
folk remind each other of the old legend. The Company 
has chanced across something that stirs these memories. 
Whether or not they’ve found a legendarily large and ancient 
Smial (and whatever lurks in its darkened halls now) or the 
simple hiding hole of an Outsider is up to the Loremaster.
 
The High House
The Company is near Combe and the ruins of the High 
House beckon. If the companions choose to explore the 
ruins, they will gain a sense of its ancientry and those folks 
sensitive to such things (Dúnedain, High Elves and others 
with relevant Virtues) may get a sense that some sort of 
power or enchantment still lurks here. Heroes that fail their 
Wisdom check have Disadvantage on the saving throw 
for the Corruption check, for the ancient place seems to 
amplify the sorrows that each companion carries within.
	
King’s Crossing
Scattered near to the Great East Road and also along 
the Greenway are occasional standing stones. Most are 
only a foot or two high and are too weatherworn for any 
but the keenest Elf-eyes to read the runes that were once 
engraved on them. The Bree-folk call these stones a King’s 
crossing, and some of them do indeed mark the start of a 
trail, such as the path that leads to Combe from the East 
Road. Otherwise, they pay them no mind. More learned 
companions might take either hope or sorrow for knowing 
that once, long ago, a King did watch over these lands, until 
the Shadow destroyed him and his people. 
The Sheep Trail 
The heroes are walking along a sheep-trail that conveniently 
heads their direction when suddenly the trail widens and 
the companions see finely crafted interlocking paving 
stones under their feet. A thousand years or more ago, 
this was part of a grand road. Two-hundred paces away, 
the roadway disappears and the path is again nothing 
more than a sheep-trail. Heroes that chance to look about 
are likely to find ruins nearby. Perhaps what used to be a 
waystation long ago, although the roof and most of the 
walls are long gone. There’s a quietness to the ruins, a 
mixture of grandness and sorrow that seems to hang in the 
very air.
Journey Event Table Entry 9
3
An Empty Land

--- PAGE 62 ---
Bree-land Region Guide
62
A Place Touched by the Shadow
The essence of something dark and terrible lingers here. 
The Scout must make an Intelligence (Investigation) 
check to avoid the area. If successful, the Company gains a 
+1 to their Arrival Roll. If the Scout succeeds by 5 or more, 
each hero gains Inspiration and may remove 1 temporary 
Shadow point. If the Scout fails, each hero must make a 
DC 15 Wisdom saving throw against Corruption or gain 1 
point of Shadow. If the Scout fails by 5 or more, some dark 
thing still lurks here, ancient and evil… 
The Cottage of the Lost
There are rumours of a witch’s hut in the Chetwood. 
Where it can be found changes with who’s telling the story 
— sometimes it’s even in the Old Forest instead — but it’s 
always a dangerous place that lost folks stumble across. 
The witch isn’t home at first, but then she comes back and 
finds the visitors trespassing. The Company has stumbled 
across the ramshackle remains of a cottage in the forest and 
it’s likely that this story is in their minds. Of course, it might 
just belong to a hermit or was once the home of a poacher 
or outlaw. Heroes that investigate deeper might find more 
disturbing things here: a pile of animal bones, rotten hides, 
perhaps a shallow grave with human remains.
The Cold Passage
At the northerly entrance to the valley where Combe lies 
is a particular spot where one can feel a cold chill upon the 
back of one’s neck no matter the season or time of day. Local 
legend says that an unquiet spirit haunts the entrance to the 
valley, forever searching for its mortal remains which were 
scattered or destroyed long ago. Heroes that voluntarily seek 
out the site automatically gain a point of Shadow but also 
might gain a clue as the darkness that lies there. 
The Empty Campsite 
Late in the day, the heroes come across a campsite. The 
ground is clean and clear of debris, there’s a stone-lined 
firepit with kindling in the pit and a stack of dry firewood 
nearby. It’s about as perfect a place to rest as the Company 
is likely to find outside the walls of the The Prancing Pony. 
And, yet, there are no signs of anyone nearby: no tracks in 
the dirt, no one gone to fetch water from a nearby pond, 
no scouts making sure that there are no bear or troll tracks 
in the vicinity. The Company is alone. The exact meaning 
of the campsite is up to the Loremaster. You might ask 
for a Corruption check only because the companions 
have inadvertently inconvenienced a very stealthy group 
of Rangers. Or the entire campsite might be a trick of the 
Shadow or the sorcerer Gorlanc, a peaceful memory 
designed to make the heroes unwary in preparation for an 
attack in the night.
	
Ghosts in the Fog
The Company is travelling in the Midgewater or along the 
banks of the Baranduin when vapours from the East roll 
in. The Scout sees the mists hanging over the water twist 
and coil, and suddenly they seem to take on the form of 
ghostly soldiers marching in serried ranks. The Scout has 
Disadvantage on the Investigation check due to the speed 
with which the fog takes on its unearthly guise.
Maggie’s Lookout
There are few steep rock-faces in the Bree-land and about 
the only that could be called a cliff proper is where the 
Quarry (see page 17) cuts into the Hill itself. Above it, is a 
spot called Maggie’s Lookout. Local legend tells of a young 
girl forbidden to marry her love by her cruel father, who 
instead intended his daughter to marry a rival’s son and 
end a long-standing feud. Instead, Magnolia Droverwind 
threw herself into the Quarry from this spot and her body 
was never found. It’s hard to say how much of the legend 
is true. But the Droverwinds and the Goatleaf clan are still 
at odds today.
	
The Thieves’ Glen
The heroes have ventured into the coppice of trees near 
Combe known as the Thieves’ Glen (see page 26). The 
wood seems very close — the air is still and the foliage high 
above casts long shadows on the ground, dappled here 
and there by a bright beam of sunlight that has managed 
to make its way through. Dead leaves and debris crunch 
underfoot as the companions manoeuvre through many 
tiny twisting trails that double back on themselves and 
reveal hidden spots to persistent seekers.The Company 
can sense the terrible history of the place: evil and murder 
was done here and it does not seem like a safe place to 
linger.
Journey Event Table Entry 10
7
3

--- PAGE 63 ---
63
The Enemy is Abroad
Evil Men, Orcs, Goblins or other servants of the Enemy are 
moving through the area. If the Company is subject to The 
Keen Eyes of the Enemy, the confrontation is unavoidable, 
if the Look-out makes a Wisdom (Perception) check, the 
enemy is Surprised on the first round of combat.
If the Company is Hidden from the Shadow, the Look-out 
can use Perception or Stealth to avoid the enemy. If the 
check fails, the enemy is still Surprised on the first round 
of combat.
If neither applies, then each member of the Company 
must make a Dexterity (Stealth) check. If the Company 
has horses or ponies then one companion must make a 
Wisdom (Animal Handling) check as well. If any of these 
rolls fails, they have spotted and battle is engaged with no 
advantage to either side.
The Deadman Gang 
Taking their name from the Bree-folk’s name for Fornost 
Erain, the Deadman don’t actually dare to go too close to the 
ancient city (since doing so would alert Talandil and other 
Rangers). Instead, they lurk along the roads, trying to stay 
far enough away from the four villages to avoid capture. 
The Company has found their leader (Little Ned, a huge 
Man and an Outlaw Chief) and as many Outlaws as there 
are heroes. They’re used to threatening merchants and will 
prove to be an Easily Unnerved troupe (see page 70 of the 
Rivendell Region Guide) when they have to face the cold 
steel of the heroes. The gang is a Challenge 6 encounter, or 
Challenge 7 if you decide that they are a Vengeful Band 
(page 119 of the Loremaster’s Guide) instead.
Harvestmath Wights
The final days of Harvestmath signal a transition between 
the bright warm pleasantness of Summer and the coming 
cold darkness of Autumn. Folk say that the dead rest 
uneasily at this time of year, feeling the change in their 
bones as well. On the last night of the month, the people 
of the Bree-land lock their doors tightly, light tall candles 
that will burn all night long to keep the darkness away and 
listen to the cold wind blowing outside.
Of course, if the Company is on a journey then they won’t 
be safely indoors. In the deepest and darkest part of night, a 
group of Barrow-wights and Bog Soldiers attack the heroes 
(one of each per companion, Challenge 9).
Munaith Greycloak
This old crebain (see page 75 of the Rivendell Region 
Guide) is cleverer and more scheming than his fellows 
(Munaith’s Intelligence and Charisma are both 12 and 
he has Deception +5). He can communicate in a harsh, 
croaking version of the Common speech but is an excellent 
mimic. His preferred technique is to ally himself with other 
evil creatures and lead his victims into their ambush by 
pretending to be a hurt person or animal calling out in pain 
or fear. He might ally with: a small flock of younger Crebain 
(two per hero, Challenge 3), some swamp goblins (one per 
hero, Challenge 4) or hungry stone trolls (one per hero, 
Challenge 8).
	
Night Terrors
The Look-out’s eyes seem to be playing tricks on them. 
Every hillock and rock looks like a Troll. As the moonlight 
plays over the land, it is as though the Troll is everywhere. 
Ask the player how attentive they intend to be — are they 
going to stay on-edge and fully alert all night, fraying their 
nerves, or will they put aside their worries and just make 
sure that no foes trouble the sleeping companions?
A hero that strains themselves makes the Perception check 
with Advantage but gains a level of Exhaustion. If you use 
this Journey Event during Old Bones and Skin, the Old Troll 
doesn’t attack but instead uses the opportunity to get away, 
causing the Company to lose his trail and adding 3 to his 
Lead (see page 75).
Out of the Marshes
From time to time, the Swamp Goblins leave the safety 
of the Midgewater and venture further abroad in search 
of fresh meat. Such a troupe counts as Bloodthirsty (see 
page 119 of the Loremaster’s Guide). The Company might 
face as many Goblins as there are heroes (a Challenge 3 
encounter) or twice as many Swamp Goblins as companions 
for a Challenge 5 meeting. Due to the Goblins’ stealth, the 
Look-out makes their Perception check at Disadvantage.
Journey Event Table Entry 11
4
An Empty Land

--- PAGE 64 ---
Bree-land Region Guide
64
Trolls on the Border 
A group of Hill Trolls has ventured out of the Lone Lands 
to the north and now stalks at the borders of the Bree-
land. The heroes are lucky enough to notice them before 
they’ve had a chance to cause too much trouble. There is 
one Hill Troll for every companion and they are led by a 
Hill Troll Chief. The encounter is rated at Challenge 8, for 
exceptionally martial Companies you can give each of the 
Trolls a Thick Hide without affecting the Challenge rating.
Wolves on the Hunt
A pack of Wild Wolves (page 111 of the Loremaster’s Guide) 
that are both Blood Driven and possessing Evil Maws 
(see page 121 of the Loremaster’s Guide) has come into the 
Bree-land from the Lone-lands to the north or south. There 
are three Wolves for every two heroes and the encounter 
counts as Challenge 4.
Journey Event Table Entry 11 (continued)
Many Meetings? Fly you Fools!
The companions have encountered a traveller upon 
the road, but all may not be as it at first appears. If the 
Company began the journey under Dark Signs and Evil 
Portents, it is a servant of the Enemy. If they started From 
Auspicious Beginnings then it is one of the great powers 
for good. Otherwise, the Look-out must make a Wisdom 
(Perception) check. 
If the Look-out succeeds by 5 or more, they recognise 
the traveller for someone of great standing and may 
immediately remove 1 Shadow point, gain +1 to their 
Arrival Roll and may seek an Audience with the traveller. 
On a basic success, the traveller’s identity is shielded from 
them and the meeting should use the rules for A Chance 
Encounter. Insight checks may reveal their true identity.
If the check fails, each hero must make a DC 15 Wisdom 
saving throw against Corruption or gain 2 Shadow points. 
They must then hide from the enemy (using the rules in 
The Enemy is Abroad) but also gain a level of Exhaustion 
and -1 penalty to their Arrival Roll. If the Look-out fails by 
5 or more then the Company is automatically spotted and 
they must flee. Each hero gains 2 Shadow points, a level 
of Exhaustion and a -1 to the Arrival Roll.
Bilbo Baggins
A portly Hobbit greets you on the Road. He seems cheery, 
whistling a bit of a song and not too much in a hurry to get 
where he’s going. He leans on a well-worn walking stick 
and has a stained cloak that looks just a little too big for 
him.
This is Bilbo, on one of his extended walking trips. He’s 
likely making for The Pony and a comfortable bed, but 
perhaps instead he’s further afield and hoping to come 
across a Wandering Company of Elves or other interesting 
folk (such as the adventurers!).
Gorlanc
Once, long ago, a man thirsty for knowledge and uncaring 
of which wells he visited, discovered all he could in the 
lands of Eriador and then went South. There he studied 
under those who had learned much lore of the Enemy 
and learnt much. But it is perilous to study the arts of the 
Shadow too much, and his greatest ambitions became 
twisted and cruel.
Heroes that meet Gorlanc on the Road will see an old 
man wearing tattered clothing. Despite this, there is an 
air of power and authority about him, one he often uses 
to get his way. He often has a group of his men nearby, 
Brigands and Thugs for the most part. The ambitions and 
fall of Gorlanc are the subject of the Bree-land adventures 
provided in this volume and it’s likely that the Company 
will somehow be swept into them if they chance across the 
sorcerer. See page 124 for more information. 
Journey Event Table Entry 12

--- PAGE 65 ---
65
Larkspur
A haphazard figure with patchwork clothing trundles 
alongside a well-worn pony that pulls a cart laden with 
goods of every description. The cart creaks as it trundles 
forward and with a gentle touch, the peddlar stops the 
pony and the entire ramshackle affair comes to a stop. 
“Looking to buy anything in particular?”
Larkspur is a Merchant (page 69 of the Loremaster’s 
Guide) that carries a little bit of everything. Ask the 
Player-heroes what they’re looking for — remarkably, the 
old fellow will have at least one of the first thing they ask 
for, and for a low price as well. Heroes that spend time 
with the Merchant will soon realise that they’re under 
careful observation. Who Larkspur reports to is up to the 
Loremaster, but it’s certain that there’s more happening 
here than a simple pedlar wandering the Bree-land alone.
The Reeve
An old man with long white hair shuffles along ahead, 
accompanied by the taller figure of a younger energetic 
associate. He is quick to ask you about your business in 
the Bree-land and the young man has a sharp look in his 
eyes as he listens to your answer.
While Twyc would rather rest in the Reeve’s House, he 
does feel obligated to go out every once in a while and 
‘take the air’ of the four villages so that he gets a sense of 
the people’s feelings and to remind them of his watchful 
eye. The Company have chanced to meet him on one of 
these occasions. See page 20 for more information on 
Twyc Greenleaf. 
The Forester of Archet
As the companions explore the Chetwood, they are 
suddenly surprised by a huge Man who quietly emerges 
from the forest. His eyes are grim and he holds a huge axe 
that rests on his shoulder.
This is Harry Talltree (see page 28), of course. If the heroes 
are local folk, he’ll greet them by name but if they’re 
strangers then he is more gruff with them. Harry is hunting 
poachers and outlaws today and it might take some quick 
talk from the Company to make sure that Harry knows 
they are goodly people. 
Isleen
Isleen is a wandering Mountebank (page 51) who often 
passes through the Bree-land in her travels. A master of 
disguise, she sometimes appears as a lost or frightened 
young woman (using the kindness of strangers to filch 
things from their pockets as they comfort her), or one 
of middle years who is a merchant, a healer or a guide 
(selling the Company useless baubles or leading them 
into the trap of her Outlaw friends), or an old wise-woman 
who reads the past and the future in a person’s hands or 
by reading the flights of birds or the scattering of leaves 
on the ground. 
Heroes that grow suspicious of her must make an opposed 
roll — their Perception versus her Deception to realise 
her true nature.
Journey Event Table Entry 12 (continued)
An Empty Land

--- PAGE 66 ---
Bree-land Region Guide
66
- Old Bones - 
and Skin 
“Troll sat alone on his seat of stone,
And munched and mumbled a bare old bone;”
For heroes of level 1 or 2
• 
When: The Company may undertake this quest at 
any time.
• 
Where: The adventure begins in Bree and is set in 
the lands around it.
• 
 What: The Company battles a corpse-eating Troll 
that scavenges bones from the graveyard at Bree, 
and in doing so has inadvertently stolen the key to a 
greater treasure.
• 
Why: The companions are intrigued by rumours 
heard in the common-room of The Prancing Pony, 
and alarmed when Tomas Heatherton bursts in.
• 
Who: The key characters in this tale are the recently 
deceased Timeas Heatherton, his nephew Tomas 
Heatherton and the Old Troll.
• 
Themes: This adventure alludes to Sam Gamgee’s 
Troll-song and ideally takes place so many years 
before the War of the Ring that the events described 
herein might have passed into Hobbit folklore. But 
this concern is purely a conceit of the writer, and has 
no material bearing on the tale. 
Adventuring Phase
This adventure can be used as the beginning of a campaign 
set in Eriador and works especially well if the Company 
consists primarily of Bree-folk, Hobbits of the Shire and 
the occasional travelling Dwarf. However, the Dúnedain 
and High Elves of Rivendell can also serve as heroes, albeit 
ones who are more likely to take a direct approach to the 
problem of the Old Troll.
As written, the Company is unlikely to defeat the Old Troll 
in combat and must instead rely on negotiation or stealth. 
If your players favour swordplay over wordplay, you might 
wish them to gain the assistance of Haleth (see page 76) or 
have more chances to attack the Old Troll at range before 
meeting him in his lair.
This adventure is divided into eight parts. The last few 
parts are optional; the Company may choose not to risk 
further danger by disturbing yet more graves, in which 
case the treasure of the so-called ‘Black Barrow’ will 
remain buried in the darkness.
Part One – Stories by the Fire
In the inn at Bree, the companions learn the latest 
gossip about the shameful behaviour of the late Timeas 
Heatherton’s 
youngest 
nephew, 
Tomas. 
They 
are 
interrupted when young Tom himself comes running into 
the inn, scared white as a sheet by the horrors he beheld 
in the graveyard.
Part Two – The Nephew’s Tale
Questioned by the Company, the panicked Tomas tells all 
he knows, and more.
Part Three – As Should Be A-lying in 
Graveyard
Investigating Bree’s graveyard, the Company discover that 
a Troll has been raiding the graves for food.
Part Four – Over the Misty Mounds
Pursuing the Troll, the Company enters the cold lands of 
the South Downs, where the Troll makes its lair. Before 
they can find it, however, they are scattered by a thick fog.
Part Five – Up Came Tom With His Big 
Boots On
Reunited, the companions find the Troll’s lair; but Tom 
Heatherton has found his way there too, and his attempts 
to steal his uncle’s map meet result in added peril for the 
adventurers! The Company must somehow defeat the Troll, 
through strength of arms or deception or a little of both.
Part Six – Old Skins and Sins
The Company discovers old Timeas’ map is of Dwarf-
make, and find the secret of the smoke-letters.
Part Seven – Finding the Barrow
The heroes follow the map through the Midgewater 
Marshes to find the Black Barrow and its lost treasures.

--- PAGE 67 ---
67
Part Eight – Though Dead He Be, It 
Belongs to Me
Grór the Dwarf arrives, possibly in the company of one of 
the Heathertons, and definitely with armed followers in 
train. He attempts to claim the barrow for his own, and 
take revenge for the death of his brother Grón.
Epilogue – Of Blood and Bone, Of Water 
and Earth
The companions reflect on the events of the adventure, 
and gather what rewards they can from the ruin.
The Eye of Mordor
Companies using the optional rules presented in 
the Rivendell Region Guide should find that any 
revelation episodes centre on secrets and betrayals. 
The Company might find old grievances with each 
other flaring up, otherwise Tomas can be the source of 
the tension. He might regret an earlier generous offer 
to the heroes or become suspicious of them, thinking 
that they know more than they let on regarding his 
uncle’s treasure.
- Part One -
Stories by the Fire
The adventure begins at The Prancing Pony. The common-
room of inn is the heart of Bree, and as anyone knows 
(anyone in Bree, that is), that means it’s the heart of the 
world, the fixed point around which Sun and Moon and 
Stars all spin on their merry courses. It was here that 
Thorin Oakenshield met Gandalf the Grey and so set the 
Quest of Erebor in motion.
Tonight, the talk is of matters closer to home than the 
Lonely Mountain – the scandal of the Heathertons. As 
anyone, and therefore everyone, in Bree knows, Timeas 
Heatherton was a fine fellow in his old age; always ready 
to stand his round in The Pony, always with a smile on 
his face and a kind word to passers-by. Only the older 
souls in Bree remembered a time when Timeas was not 
so upstanding a citizen of the town. While it’s true that 
Timeas was once an odd sort who went off, they say, 
travelling away East, he put all that behind him when he 
came home to Bree, and lived a proper unexciting life from 
the day he came home until last month, when he died.
The scandal of the hour is Timeas’ youngest nephew 
Tomas. The young man missed his own uncle’s funeral; 
when he should have been helping carry his uncle’s 
body to the graveyard outside Bree, he was nowhere to 
be seen – a matter of great scandal and general comment 
among the worthies of Bree! Have you ever heard a more 
shameful thing, for a nephew to miss his own uncle’s 
burial?
Some in the room hint darkly that there is even more to the 
tale, deeds so foul and terrible they can only be spoken of 
over another pint of beer (for no man would dare speak of 
them wholly sober).
The Scandal of the Heathertons
A successful TN 15 Intelligence (Riddle) check (or using 
a couple of silver pennies to buy a round for the whole inn) 
garners the following added information:
• 
In his day, old Timeas wasn’t merely travelling 
– it’s said he was adventuring, with strange and 
unwholesome fellows. From his adventures, he 
brought back a fair amount of coin, enough to keep 
him in comfort for many years, and he shared little 
enough of it with his family.
• 
They found young Tomas after the funeral searching 
his late uncle’s house. He’d torn the place apart, 
no doubt looking for buried treasure. Tomas’ father 
threw the boy out onto the street, and he hasn’t been 
seen since!
• 
Timeas died a week ago, and was buried two days 
ago.
• 
One fellow claims that Timeas was murdereded, and 
that the murderer might not have been human. He 
claims that he saw strange lights and maybe even 
Wights lurking outside Timeas’ house a few days ago.
1/4
Old Bones and Skin

--- PAGE 68 ---
Bree-land Region Guide
68
Who’s in the Common-room?
If you’re wondering exactly how much money the 
Company needs to spend to buy a round or who is 
listening to the tale of young Tom and his dead uncle 
Tim, use the Guests in the Inn table on page 36.
Otherwise, it is a smattering of locals slaking their 
thirst before stumbling home, a few Road-weary 
Dwarves of the Blue Mountains and a couple of 
Rangers, in town to eavesdrop on gossip and rest in 
a bed for once.
Old Timeas’ Shady Past 
Asking about Timeas’ travels when he was younger means 
talking to one old fellow whose combination of age and 
drunkenness demands a DC 13 Intelligence (Traditions) 
check to have the patience to extract anything useful out of 
his ramblings. 
If successful, the greybeard recalls that once Timeas 
returned to Bree in the company of a Ranger, of all people, 
but that wasn’t who he used to leave Bree with. Indeed, 
the old man recalls having the impression that the Ranger 
had rescued Timeas from his former companions.
Other Rumours
Despite a few wild stories about how much Timeas 
brought back from his travels, it’s clear (from a DC 13 
Wisdom (Insight) or Intelligence (Riddle) check) that 
the Heathertons were never especially rich. On a few 
occasions – when harvests were especially bad, or when 
there was another mouth to feed in the house – Timeas 
would vanish for a few days, and return with a bag of old 
coins, always just enough to tide the family over the bad 
times. He never revealed where he got this treasure, and 
each time claimed that this was the last of it.
Other tales that the Company might hear mention:
• 
One farmer, Ernest Mugwort, complains that his 
hens have stopped laying. He thinks that one of them 
Rangers crept into his barn a few nights and scared the 
hens. The straw in the barn smelled very bad for days 
afterwards, which is how he knows it must have been 
a Ranger, what with all the time they spend tromping 
around the Midgewater Marshes and other foul places.
 
Any character making a DC 13 Intelligence (Nature 
or Shadow-lore) check or those with a suitable 
trait (Troll-lore, Eriador-lore) can guess from the 
description that the culprit might have been a Troll. 
Such monsters often take shelter in barns and other 
outbuildings to hide from the light of the sun.
1/4
1/2

--- PAGE 69 ---
69
• 
One of the Bree-folk complains that Timeas Heatherton 
died owing him six copper coins, which was very 
inconsiderate of him, because it’s clear that the old 
man knew he was dying. Why, he made his own 
funeral arrangements and paid for the undertaker in 
advance!
 
A companion making a DC 13 Intelligence (Riddle) 
check or those who are Suspicious, Clever or Secretive 
might guess that Timeas had specific instructions 
relating to the disposal of his remains.
The Sullen Dwarf
Sitting in a corner of the inn is a sullen-faced Dwarf, his 
face hidden in the shadows of his cowl and the curls of 
his beard. He gives the impression that his entire attention 
is focused on the stein of beer in front of him, but his 
ears prick up whenever Timeas’ name is mentioned. This 
Dwarf’s name is Grór, and he is part of the company of 
treasure hunters and brigands that Timeas once travelled 
with. He just listens to the conversation. If any of the 
companions try speak to Grór, he drains his cup, belches 
rudely and hurries upstairs to his room. Otherwise, he 
vanishes in the uproar that accompanies Tomas’ arrival 
(see Alarums and Incursions, below).
Grór follows the Company once they leave Bree. He is 
sufficiently cautious and stealthy to avoid detection, and 
the Company’s headlong pursuit of the Troll ensures there 
is no time to set an ambush for him. See The Footpad on 
page 75.
Alarums and Incursions
Suddenly, the door of The Pony bursts open, and in rushes 
a young Bree-lander. The mutterings of the common-
room make it clear that this young man is the infamous 
Tomas Heatherton. He’s white as a sheet, and starts 
jabbering about ghosts and monsters in the graveyard. 
From his babbling, it’s clear that he witnessed something 
horrible.
If the Player-heroes rush to the graveyard immediately, 
then they’ll be accompanied by half the patrons of the inn, 
eager to witness the latest instalment in the ongoing saga 
of the Heathertons. Skip on to Part Three – As Should Be 
A-lying in the Graveyard, and run Part Two – The Nephew’s 
Tale if the Company returns to question Tomas. 
However, if the companions take Tomas aside, calm 
him down and question him quietly, the patrons in the 
common room lose interest once it becomes clear that 
Tomas isn’t going to do anything else shocking in the near 
future, and the characters can slip out unseen later on.
The Shadow of the Past
In his youth, Timeas was part of a band of treasure 
hunters led by a villain named Gorlanc, who roved 
around Eriador and the North looking for buried 
treasures and relics of the lost kingdoms. On one such 
expedition, Timeas accompanied two other members 
of the company, a man named Egri and a Dwarf 
named Grón, on a search for a place that Gorlanc 
called the Black Barrow.
They found the hidden barrow, and Grón made a 
map of the tomb’s location, but the company fell to 
quarrelling over the treasure. Grón killed Egri, and 
Timeas killed Grón and fled the barrow in terror. 
He nearly died in the Midgewater Marshes, but 
was found and rescued by the Rangers. Ashamed, 
he confessed everything he knew about Gorlanc’s 
company to the Rangers. They returned him to Bree, 
then drove Gorlanc’s followers out of Eriador.
Secretly, Timeas kept the map showing the location 
of the buried tomb. He never dared loot this tomb 
completely, fearing both the curses of the dead and 
the enmity of the living, especially the surviving 
members of his company or the Rangers, who kept 
an eye on him when they could spare it. It is this map 
that both young Tomas and Grór seek, and the Old 
Troll now possesses. Now, Gorlanc has returned to 
the North, and he has not forgotten Timeas though 
more than thirty winters have passed. He is still 
searching for the treasure of the Black Barrow and 
has sent one of his agents, the Dwarf Grór (brother 
of Grón) to Bree to spy on Timeas and learn what 
the old man remembered of the hidden barrow. The 
shock of seeing the face of the Dwarf he murdered 
(for Grór and Grón look very much alike) hastened 
Timeas’ death, as surely as if some ghost had visited 
him in the night...
1/2
Old Bones and Skin

--- PAGE 70 ---
Bree-land Region Guide
70
- Part Two -
The Nephew’s Tale
The ensuing scene, in which the Company speak to Tomas, 
is played out as an audience. The Company need to win 
his trust if they are to find out as much as they can about 
events in the graveyard. Just how far Tomas will work with 
them is determined by the outcome of the meeting. There’s 
also the possibility that Tomas’ father, Nick Heatherton 
may also become involved in events.
The Ghost of the Graveyard
Young Tomas is in quite a state — he’s just snuck out 
into a graveyard at night and confronted a nightmarish 
apparition. The heroes will first have to calm him down and 
then they might get some useful information out of him.
Motivation: In his panicked state, Tom doesn’t have 
any goals for the audience. He only wanted to get away 
from the ghost. The heroes might learn that he was in the 
graveyard to dig up his uncle’s body, however.
Expectations: “I’m tired of being teased” +2 if half or 
more of the heroes are not from Bree-land: Tomas would 
rather deal with those who aren’t likely to talk behind his 
back; “It’s still there, you could go get it if you had a mind 
to” +1 if the heroes readily agree to go to the graveyard 
and fight the ghost; “You don’t believe me! You’re worse 
than all the rest!” -2 if the heroes try to convince Tom that 
he’s overreacting to some mundane event.
Introduction
Instead of the regular introductions the companions need 
to allay the fears of the panicked young man. A DC 15 
Charisma (Persuasion) check will easily do this.
Interaction
Once the Company has calmed Tomas down somewhat, 
the following bits of information will come out in a jumble 
as the heroes ask questions.
• 
Tomas saw a ghost in the graveyard. It looked right 
at him! He was so scared he nearly fainted! The next 
thing he knew, he was running in the door of the inn!
• 
The ghost was huge! Grey-skinned, nine or ten feet 
tall despite being all hunched over, and it smelled 
like rotten meat. (The heroes might guess that he’s 
describing a Troll, not an unquiet spirit.)
• 
He thinks it was scrabbling around in the dirt, as if 
looking for something. It didn’t chase him – it must 
still be in the graveyard!
• 
He was in the graveyard to dig up the body of his 
uncle, Timeas.
This last admission will doubtless prompt other questions, 
questions that young Tom would rather not answer. If the 
heroes press, they earn themselves a -1 modifier to the final 
roll but can learn the following points:
• 
Tomas’ late Uncle Timeas was a former treasure 
hunter and always had money when he needed it. 
• 
Timeas had a map that pointed the way to a buried 
fortune. It’s hidden somewhere in Bree-land; Timeas 
would go to the buried hoard when he needed coin.
• 
The map wasn’t among Timeas’ belongings, or in the 
house. Tomas thinks his uncle must have arranged to 
be buried with the map.
• 
He doesn’t know why Timeas didn’t leave the map to 
his family, but suspects that his uncle was trying to 
protect his kin; the hoard may be located somewhere 
perilous.
The companions likely see where this is going, but to get 
Tomas to open up requires a successful DC 15 Charisma 
(Persuasion) or Intelligence (Riddle) check. On a failure, 
they get Disadvantage on the Final Audience check; on a 
success they receive the following information:
• 
He brought a shovel and intended to dig up his uncle’s 
grave to find the map.
• 
He fears that the ghost manifested to punish him for 
grave robbing.
• 
The adventurers, though, they look like courageous 
souls who do not fear any ghosts. If they help him get 
the map, he’ll split Timeas’ treasure with them! He 
claims that only he knows how to interpret his uncle’s 
marks and codes – the map is useless without him (a 
hero that is Cunning, Suspicious, Just  or Wary might 
sense Tomas is lying on this point).
The Final Audience Check
Once he regains his composure, Tomas is once again 
determined to recover his uncle’s treasure map. 
1

--- PAGE 71 ---
71
However, he likely thinks that a temporary alliance with 
the Company is the best way of dealing with any more 
trouble. The outcome of the final roll determines what 
arrangements he makes.
Failure: Tomas doesn’t trust the adventurers — he 
promises them a fair share of the treasure, but he’ll betray 
them at any opportunity and steal the map for himself.
Success by 0-3: Tomas offers them a quarter-share of the 
treasure. It’s his inheritance, he says, and a quarter-share 
is generous beyond measure.
Success by 4-5: An even share: half for the Company, half 
for himself.
Success by 6+: Take it all! No… take three-quarters of it. 
Just save him from the burning red eyes of the ghost!
Tomas Heatherton
Young Tom Heatherton is a strapping youth, with a mop 
of dark hair and the start of what might be a beard one 
day. Like most young men, he fancies himself to be wiser, 
cleverer and more dangerous than his elders. 
For a Bree-lander, he’s impatient and ambitious, and 
dreams of travelling over the mountains to distant lands 
like Dale, and using his uncle’s fortune to set himself up 
as a merchant prince. When playing Tomas, talk big and 
bold when you’re feeling safe, then scream and run away 
when danger threatens. He’s not completely cowardly, but 
he is unseasoned and impetuous.
Tomas Heatherton
Medium Human
STR 
11 (+0)
DEX 
15 (+2)
CON 
12 (+1)
INT 
10 (+0)
WIS 
11 (+0)
CHA 
13 (+1)
Armour Class 14 (Shield)
Hit Points 11 (2d8+2)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Survival +2
Senses passive Perception 10
Languages Westron
Challenge 1/4 (50 XP)
Reckless. Tomas may use his bonus action to gain 
Advantage on attack rolls until the start of his next turn 
but all attacks on him also have Advantage.
Actions
Dagger. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 4 (1d4+2) piercing damage.
A Father’s Wisdom
Depending on where the Company speak with Tom 
Heatherton, they may be interrupted by the arrival of his 
father, Nick Heatherton, a Farmer of Bree. Nick wears a 
black cloak as a mark of mourning for his late brother 
Timeas.
“Boy,” he calls to Tom, “enough of this foolishness. You’ve 
brought enough shame on my house without dragging 
these good folk into our affairs.”
“It’s not your house, dad,” spits back Tom. “Uncle Tim paid 
for it, as well you know. You might be too scared to claim 
what’s ours now that Tim’s gone, but I’m not.”
“You don’t know what you’re talking about, boy. Stay 
silent.” To the Company, Nick says “This matter ain’t 
any concern of yours. I don’t know what nonsense my 
1/2
Old Bones and Skin

--- PAGE 72 ---
Bree-land Region Guide
72
son’s been saying, but ’tis better to leave well enough 
alone. Here, for your troubles, a few coins.”  He offers the 
Company coins worth 1g to abandon the adventure.
Tom begs the Company to ignore his father. “I know what 
I saw, and I know such things won’t leave well enough 
alone. We must return to the graveyard and put it right.”
Questioning Nick Heatherton
The farmer has little interest in bandying words with 
strangers about his troublesome son or his recently 
deceased brother. A DC 10 Wisdom (Insight) check 
suggests he’s ashamed or even scared of his brother’s 
legacy, and worried that his hot-headed son is about to 
get into trouble. 
Nick Heatherton’s not in the mood for an audience 
but a successful DC 15 Charisma (Persuasion) or 
Intelligence (Traditions) check can get some half-
answers out of him:
• 
His brother Timeas was wealthy – or, more precisely, 
knew where to get money. Timeas always hinted 
that there was a lot more wealth available, but that 
obtaining it would be somehow perilous.
• 
Timeas travelled with strange and dangerous folk, but 
he put that part of his life behind him long ago. Nick 
wants to ensure that young Tom does not go down a 
similar road.
• 
He begs the Company to keep Tom safe. He just buried 
his brother; he hopes he doesn’t have to bury his son 
too.
Nick actually knows a great deal more than he is willing 
to say; he is the one who buried the map with his brother, 
and he knows about Tim’s travels with Gorlanc’s company. 
However, only a DC 20 Wisdom (Insight) check will 
reveal this and he’s loathe to talk about such things in any 
case.
- Part Three -
As Should Be A-lying In 
Graveyard
The people of Bree bury their dead on a hillside south 
of the Great East Road. As they have done since time 
immemorial, they raise mounds of earth over the corpses, 
and let the grass be their shroud. Those steeped in ancient 
lore can tell you that the oldest mounds are oriented to 
the north, towards Bree-hill and points beyond, and the 
newer mounds look back towards the West, towards the 
setting sun and the Undying Lands.
The mounds are not like the great barrows of the kings; 
they are little earthen piles covered in green grass, just 
long enough to house a corpse.
The graveyard is within sight of the lights of Bree, but is 
about ten minutes’ walk outside the town’s gates. A well-
worn path, lined with flowers, runs between the Southgate 
of Bree and the little cemetery.
Old Timeas’ Grave
The newest mound, a spot of brown among the sea of 
green, is that of Timeas Heatherton. Examining it, it’s clear 
that the mound has been recently opened and then closed 
up again. If the companions open the grave (committing a 
Misdeed worth a point of Shadow!) they find it empty. The 
body is gone. Something opened up the mound, stole the 
corpse, and sealed it up again so expertly that the earth 
looks undisturbed at a casual glance.
If present, Tomas insists on making a careful search of the 
barrow, to no avail – there’s no sign of any map.
Searching the Graveyard
A successful DC 10 Intelligence (Investigation) check 
turns up a spade (which Tomas apologetically claims as 
his) and little else. Only if the hero succeeds by 5 or more 
do they spy the traces of the Troll: a few trampled blades 
of grass and mostly erased footprints. For a Troll, this one 
must be exceedingly canny and stealthy. Still, it’s enough 
to track: a successful DC 13 Wisdom (Survival) check 
puts the Company on the trail leading to Part Four – Over 
The Misty Mounds.
1/2

--- PAGE 73 ---
73
If the heroes fail to spot the traces, they have two other 
ways to find the trail. First, if they think of it, they could 
visit the nearby barn mentioned by the farmer in The 
Prancing Pony  for another chance to find the trail — a DC 
15 Wisdom (Survival) check due to the age of the tracks.
The second option is to stake out the graveyard and wait 
for the Troll to return. Anyone with the Troll-lore trait can 
guess that the creature will return for more well-aged 
meat. Some Trolls prefer corpses that have had some 
time to rot, so it’s unlikely to eat all of Uncle Timeas right 
away.
Many Onlookers
If a crowd from The Prancing Pony followed the Player-
heroes to the graveyard, then the Investigation check 
automatically fails as drunken onlookers trample any 
possible tracks, accuse young Tom of grave robbing and 
shout in alarm when they mistake a passing goat for a 
ghost, or a Troll, or whatever monster they imagine stalks 
this graveyard at night.
Staking out the Graveyard
"My lad," said Troll, "this bone I stole.
But what be bones that lie in a hole?
Thy nuncle was as a lump o’ lead,
Afore I found his shin-bone."
The Troll is gone for the night, and won’t return for several 
more. The only thing to do is stake out the graveyard, 
which means maintaining a series of watches over the 
coming days. Tomas will suggest this course of action if 
the players don’t think of it. If the Company are on good 
terms with Tomas, he offers to pay for their lodgings at 
The Pony with his share of the treasure if they promise to 
help him track down the Troll that took his uncle’s body.
The most reasonable way to stake out the graveyard is to 
take watches, where one adventurer stands vigil over the 
mounds for a few hours before rousing a companion. If the 
whole Company wishes to spend several cold, sleepless 
nights sitting on a wet hillside in Bree, they can do so, but 
each companion gains 2 levels of Exhaustion.
At this time of year, thick fogs are common across the 
Downs. The fog rolls around the graveyard, turning the 
mounds into little islands of green in a sea of white before 
swallowing them entirely. It’s hard to see any distance, 
so any watchers must rely on their hearing, listening for 
the bellows-breath of the Troll, for the soft scraping of 
spadelike paws in the earth, for the crunch of bones. On 
the fifth night, call for a DC 14 Wisdom (Perception) 
check from whomever’s on watch.
Failure: The stealthy Old Troll manages to sneak up on 
the watcher, and attacks. The hero is Surprised. A single 
Player-hero versus a Troll is likely to be a very one-sided 
battle; the character is advised to flee, knowing the Troll 
will not pursue them into Bree. If there’s more than one 
watcher, pick the tastiest one.
Success: The character spots that the Troll has returned 
when the Troll is nearly on top of them! They may hide 
from the Troll with a DC 13 Dexterity (Stealth) check. 
If the Stealth check is successful, the Troll sniffs the air, 
growls, mutters something about a strange smell and then 
heads into the graveyard to dig up another juicy body. 
The Player-hero may then sound the alarm, as described 
below. If the Stealth check fails, then the Troll spots the 
hiding watchers and attacks (as above, but the hero is not 
Surprised).
Success by 5 or more: The watcher spies the Troll at a 
distance and can sound the alarm, summoning the whole 
Company. The Troll flees, with the companions in hot 
pursuit. Alternatively, the Company can try to ambush the 
Troll with a group DC 13 Dexterity (Stealth) check to get 
into position. If successful, the Company can force a battle 
with the Troll here and now.
Success with a natural 20: Keen indeed are the eyes of 
the watch! The watcher spots the Troll at such a distance 
that there’s time to sneak back to Bree, summon the rest 
of the Company, and return to encircle it without needing 
to make Stealth checks. Not only is the Troll Surprised 
but they gain Advantage on their attack rolls for the first 
round as he wasn’t expecting any trouble at all.
If the Old Troll is allowed to go about his grisly business 
without interruption, then he digs out one of the other 
mounds, removes the half-rotten body inside (“just about 
ripe,” he mutters, “ain’t nothing like nicely aged meat”) 
and stuffs it into a sack before vanishing into the mists.
1/2
Old Bones and Skin

--- PAGE 74 ---
Bree-land Region Guide
74
Battling the Old Troll
Depending on how the stake-out went, this battle may 
involve:
• 
One or two unlucky watchers ambushed by the Troll.
• 
The whole Company charging into battle with the 
Troll.
• 
The Company ambushing the Troll.
In any case, it’s clear that this is an old and dangerous 
Stone-troll, cunning and fast beyond the common measure 
of his kind. The Old Troll’s pale hide is marked by many 
scars; beneath his goat-skin jerkin he wears an old coat of 
ring-mail, rusty and tattered but still proof against blows, 
and he carries a knife (in the hands of a man it would be a 
sword). Learn more about the Old Troll on page 50.
Play him as a sort of monstrous parody of Tom Bombadil, 
if Tom were a corpse-eating monstrosity. He cares for 
nothing except for mastery of his own little domain and 
his own appetites, and entertains himself by gurgling grim 
little ditties about crunching bones and smashing skulls.
The Old Troll fights until he takes 40 points of damage 
or until he fears being surrounded and brought down by 
weight of numbers. Remember, from his perspective, the 
graveyard at  Bree is just a convenient source of tasty food. 
To him, the body in the bag is like a sweet honeycomb, but 
he’s not going to risk his life poking a beehive if the bees 
are swarming. You don’t get to be an Old Troll by staying 
in a losing fight.
So, at a suitable moment, the Old Troll attempts to use his 
Great Leap ability to escape the combat at the start of the 
next round. He leaps over the head of one of his foes and 
scrambles away into the fog. Note down the Old Troll’s 
remaining hit points when he flees the fight — he regains 
10 hit points between now and Part Five of the adventure.
Pursuing the Old Troll
The Old Troll runs on all fours, loping along at terrible 
speed, faster than any Man or Elf could run. A horse might 
be able to keep pace, but the Old Troll knows the land 
around Bree very well, and so takes a route that leaps 
up sheer cliffs, over dense thickets and through clinging 
marshes. He flees away south, running for the South 
Downs.
The Company may not be able to keep the Troll in sight, 
but now that they know roughly in which direction his 
lair might be found, they can pursue him across the 
countryside. They also have one key advantage – they 
can travel by day or night, but the Troll must find shelter 
to avoid the light of the Sun, or be turned to stone. The 
Old Troll knows every barn, gully, cave and hole from 
Deadman’s Dike to Tharbad; he knows where to hide from 
the killing light.
A Foe Beyond Any of You
Setting the Old Troll against a Company of 1st 
level heroes might seem overly harsh. However, the 
heroes have several things in their favour, if they 
are careful and cunning. Firstly, the Old Troll isn’t 
seeking a fight: their first couple of encounters with 
him are likely to see him leaving the scene fairly 
quickly. If they can do a little bit of damage to him 
each time they meet him, he’ll be easier to fight in the 
end. Secondly, defeating the Old Troll doesn’t have 
to mean his death. After all, recovering the map is 
the goal. Haleth (see page 76) and other Dúnedain 
can deal with the monster itself. If your players do 
insist on confronting the Old Troll head on, perhaps 
have Tomas, Grór or Haleth join the fight. Use the 
Dwarf stats on page 78 of the Loremaster’s Guide for 
Grór. He’ll claim that only good fortune brought him 
to the fight and then he’ll disappear again, only to 
be seen later in the adventure, once again shadowing 
the Company. Haleth is a Ranger (page 75 of the 
Loremaster’s Guide).
- Part Four -
Over the Misty Mounds
The Old Troll’s lair is hidden some 50 miles south of Bree; 
three or four days’ travel for a Man, but only two night’s 
hard running for a Troll, for the stone-bred do not tire or 
tarry as mortals do. Trolls are by nature very lazy and 
territorial, which makes them slow, but when they have 
to run, they run as though the dawn were behind them. 
1/2

--- PAGE 75 ---
75
This stage of the adventure is a journey from Bree to the Old 
Troll’s lair, but it is possible that the Company might catch 
the Old Troll before he reaches his home. As the Company 
need to move as fast as possible to catch the Troll, the Peril 
Rating of the trip is raised to 4. They will face up to 1d2+1 
Journey Events (see An Empty Land on page 52).
The first part of the journey is easy; the lands just south of 
the Road are still farmland, or at least the stones remember 
being tilled when the region was more populous; many 
paths still criss-cross the countryside.
• 
20 miles of travel from Bree south of the Road takes 
the Company to the edge of the South Downs. It takes 
them 1 day.
By noon on the second day, however, the Company find 
themselves climbing into the stony hills of the South 
Downs; a monotonous, rolling landscape where each pile 
of shale and scanty grass hides another dozen hills, all 
alike. The paths in this part of the world are treacherous; 
valleys end suddenly in box canyons, and the loose stones 
are always eager to twist an ankle or trap a foot. This is 
Troll country, and you need to be made of stone to be at 
home here.
• 
It’s another 20 miles of travel into the South Downs to 
the area around where the Troll lairs. This takes them 
2 days.
If Tomas is with the Company, he acquits himself 
surprisingly well. The young Bree-lander is not an 
experienced traveller, but he is young and tough, and as 
long as there are no sudden dangers, he keeps pace with 
the Player-heroes.
The Trail of the Troll
At the start of the chase, the Old Troll has bounded 
away, but the Company have a clear path to follow. The 
Troll’s head-start is measured by its Lead, which begins 
at 1d4+1. Each day, the companions have at a chance to 
affect the Lead. The Company can only take up to two of 
these actions each day.
• 
The Hunter can search for the Troll’s tracks directly, 
which requires a DC 13 Wisdom (Survival) check. 
On a success, reduce the Lead by 1. There’s no change 
on a failure.
• 
The Scout can investigate potential hiding spots for the 
Troll. Make a DC 15 Intelligence (Investigation) 
check. If successful and the Lead is 1 or lower, the Old 
Troll’s hiding spot has been found and the heroes can 
attack during the day. See Catching the Troll, below.
• 
The Guide can take a chance to plot a course that 
doesn’t follow the Troll directly, but cuts off his 
attempts at misdirection. This takes a DC 15 Wisdom 
(Survival) check — on a success the Lead is reduced 
by 2 but on a failure it increased by 2 as the Company 
must double-back to regain the trail.
• 
The Lookout can stay up during the hours before the 
dawn, straining eyes and ears for any sign of the Troll 
The Footpad
At various points in this adventure, the Company may be followed by either Tomas Heatherton or Grór the Dwarf, 
depending on the circumstances of their departure from Bree. In either case, the pursuer stays clear of the Company 
and cannot easily be ambushed. If the Look-out or Hunter rolls a natural 20 on a Journey Event roll, then they find 
signs of the pursuer, alerting the Company to their shadow.
It’s up to the Loremaster as to whether you wish to allow the Player-heroes to catch their footpad. The simplest 
approach is to say that the pursuer always evades capture, or to counter the Company’s attempts by some external 
calamity like an attack by the Old Troll. On the other hand, if you feel comfortable improvising the later sections, 
you could allow the Company to capture their pursuer with a successful group Stealth check (DC 12 for Tomas, DC 
16 for the wily Grór).
1
Old Bones and Skin

--- PAGE 76 ---
Bree-land Region Guide
76
going to ground. Make a DC 20 Wisdom (Perception) 
check. On a success, the Lead is reduced to 1 as the 
heroes know exactly where the Troll is camped and 
must simply reach that spot. On a failure, the Scout 
gains a level of Exhaustion from the tiresome vigil.
Catching the Troll
If the Company catch up with the Old Troll, then they 
come to some noisome cave or lightless gully in the Downs 
where he has taken refuge. The Company still have a few 
minutes of daylight left, so they can either enter the Troll’s 
hiding place and attack, or else wait outside and set an 
ambush.
If they enter into the hiding place, then the Troll has to 
survive for three rounds of combat before it can flee 
into the twilight. If they wait outside, then the Company 
may make a DC 13 Dexterity (Stealth) group check. 
If successful, the Troll is Surprised when the heroes 
ambush him. He will flee as soon as he is able to do so. 
Keep track of the Troll’s hit points; when the Company 
finally corner the Old Troll in his lair, any hit points he 
loses here stay lost.
The Ranger
This is an optional additional journey event. The audience 
here might have limited impact in this adventure, but it 
will foreshadow events in future tales.
As the companions march across the Downs, they spot a 
figure in a grey cloak, walking west. It’s unusual to meet 
anyone in this wilderness; anyone travelling in this part of 
Eriador would take the great East Road or the Greenway, 
unless they had a specific and doubtless sinister reason 
to stay out of sight. One lone traveller is unlikely to be a 
bandit, though, so the Company may greet this stranger 
without undue fear.
Any Dúnadain recognise the woman by her gait; she is 
Haleth, a fellow ranger, famed for her skill with the sword. 
Her usual haunts are far to the east, where she guards 
Rivendell and the valley of the Greyflood from Orcs and 
Trolls.
Today, she is on an errand for the Dúnedain that 
cannot wait, and so she cannot stop to accompany the 
companions unless they are in very dire need. (She might 
help the characters find the trail of the Troll again, or show 
up to rescue a Player-hero who got ambushed by the Troll 
or wandered away from the rest of the Company). If the 
heroes insist on fighting the Old Troll in his lair, she might 
return from her business just in the nick of time.
If there are any Dúnedain or Elves present, then Haleth 
stops to speak with the Company. Otherwise, she stays 
to talk only if the Company’s speaker makes a DC 15 
Intelligence (Traditions) check to convince her that they 
are worth talking to. She shares the following:
• 
Haleth has encountered the Old Troll before – the 
brute trespassed close to Rivendell some twenty years 
ago, and she was part of the hunting party that drove 
him away (“I’m older than I look”, she says wryly). She 
recalls that the Troll was especially dangerous near 
his lair. He marks the territory around his lair with 
some foul spells.
• 
She’s also heard of Timeas, and recalls his trouble 
with bad company. Any treasure map he had may 
be more perilous than any Troll. She suggests that 
the Company should give any such map to someone 
they can trust (like Gandalf or Elrond, if the Company 
know such exalted figures; another Ranger, if they 
don’t), or that they destroy it. Some treasures are best 
left unfound.
If anyone thinks to observe Tomas during the conversation, 
a DC 10 Wisdom (Insight) check reveals that he is 
angered by Haleth’s words of caution, but has enough 
sense not to insult a the ranger to her face.
Fog on the South Downs
At the end of the third day, the heroes have reached the 
Troll’s lair. A bank of thick fog rolls in. This fog has an 
unwholesome, unnatural feel to it. As it approaches, it 
looms and lopes like the Old Troll, as though an army of 
misty monsters were advancing upon the Company. The 
fog is so thick that the companions risk being scattered.
If Tomas is with the Company, then he is automatically 
lost in the fog. Other characters must make a DC 10 
Intelligence (Investigation) check to find one another 
in the fog. A character who fails is lost and alone as they 
enter the area around the Old Troll’s lair. A character who 
1/2
1/2

--- PAGE 77 ---
77
succeeds finds one of his companions, chosen at random, 
before entering into the Old Troll’s demesne; succeeding 
by 5 or more indicates they have found two companions; 
a natural 20, three.
- Part Five -
Up Came Tom With His 
Big Boots On
The Old Troll’s lair is a deep cave in the lee of one of 
the mounds of the South Downs. For a furlong or more 
around the cave, he’s stacked piles of bones and skulls 
as warding totems against intruders. Closer to the cave, 
these piles grow in size; the teetering bone-piles near 
the cave entrance are taller than a tall man. The wind 
whistles through these grisly landmarks, keening like 
a banshee. This is a dark place, a place of shadow. All 
those who enter the Old Troll’s demesne must make a 
Corruption check (a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw) or 
gain a point of Shadow.
There are several ways this scene might begin, and several 
ways it might play out. (If the Company have already killed 
the Old Troll, then his older brother the Older Troll takes 
his place in this scene).
The Company see the Troll when they arrive. He’s slumped 
on a seat of stone at the entrance to the cave, breathing 
heavily, exhausted by the long chase. There’s a skin of 
wine and most of a roasted goat by his side. 
Tom’s Folly
The first problem is that young Tomas Heatherton has 
arrived ahead of the Company and is currently trying to 
sneak into the Troll’s lair to search for his uncle’s bones 
and the map. Tomas is not especially stealthy, but how 
hard can it be to sneak past a sleeping Troll?
A successful DC 10 Wisdom (Insight or Perception) 
check from a companion reveals that the Troll is only 
pretending to sleep. His red eyes glitter beneath their 
heavy lids. He’s dozing, but not asleep. However, the Troll 
hasn’t spotted Tomas yet. (If, by some quirk of your game, 
Tomas isn’t here, then the Company don’t need to worry 
about the boy and can instead focus on the Troll.)
What do the Company do?
• 
Do Nothing: If the Company choose not to act and 
see what happens, here’s how things play out. Tomas 
tries to sneak past the ‘sleeping’ Troll, but as he enters 
the cave, one of the piles of skulls topples in the wind 
and falls on top of him. Quick as a snake, the Troll 
springs up and grabs him. Tomas bravely demands 
that the Troll hand over his uncle’s bones. “Why, if 
thou craves thy nuncle so, then surely ye should find 
him!”  cries the Troll. He pulls Tomas taut, holding the 
boy by wrists and ankles, and then he twists.
The sound of breaking bones echoes across the grim 
valley. All the companions gain 2 Shadow points for 
standing idly by. The Troll tosses the hobbled Tomas 
into the back of the cave and returns to napping.
• 
Rescue Tomas from his Folly: The challenge is to 
sneak faster than Tomas, and grab the boy before 
he gets too close to the Troll. This requires a DC 13 
Dexterity (Stealth) check. If the companion fails, 
offer the choice of staying hidden and not reaching 
Tomas in time, or grabbing Tomas but being spotted 
by the Troll out in the open.
• 
Use the Boy as a Distraction: If the Company 
wishes, they could use Tomas as a distraction when 
trying to steal from or ambush the Troll. Poor Tomas 
gets mangled and thrown into the back of the cave, as 
above; the Player-heroes (heroes might no longer be 
the right word here…) gain Advantage on any Stealth 
checks made in this scene, and they gain 3 Shadow 
points instead of 2.
• 
Confront the Old Troll: Stepping out bravely into full 
view and hailing the Troll requires a DC 13 Charisma 
(Intimidation) check. If the check fails, then the Old 
Troll grabs Tomas as a hostage before parleying with 
the Company. If successful, then the Old Troll is so 
surprised by the hero’s bold challenge that he doesn’t 
spot Tomas.
• 
Charge! Battle is joined! Have the Old Troll make 
a DC 10 Dexterity saving throw. On a failure, the 
Troll is Surprised and Tomas will use his first turn to 
scramble away. Otherwise, he Grapples Tomas for his 
1
Old Bones and Skin

--- PAGE 78 ---
Bree-land Region Guide
78
first turn and uses the boy as a shield (see I’ve a Mind 
to Dine on thee Now, below).
Stealing from the Troll
A companion can sneak by the Troll by making a DC 13 
Dexterity (Stealth) check. If the check fails, the Old Troll 
spots the intruder and attacks.
If successful, the character may pilfer one item from the 
Troll’s lair (see Old Troll’s Treasure on page 79). If the hero 
succeeds by 5 or more, they may roll twice on the table to 
see what they found and can take both items if they wish. 
A natural 20 allows them to roll three times.
Ambushing the Old Troll
The Company might choose to get as close as possible to 
the Troll before attacking. Have them make a group DC 13 
Dexterity (Stealth) check. On a success, the Old Troll is 
Surprised during the first round of combat. If they fail, he 
continues to pretend to sleep and then springs up at the 
last moment!
Parleying with a Troll
The Old Troll is no fool. If the adventurers have tracked 
him back to his lair and already hurt him, then they’re 
a danger to him. One lucky arrow, one blade that finds 
purchase in his stony skin, and he might die here. Treat 
this as unusual Audience.
Motivation
“What was this man to thou? Why should thee care where 
his bones lie?” The Old Troll is suspicious of the Company, 
especially if they ask for the return of Uncle Tim’s body 
without explaining their reasons.
Expectations
The Old Troll is canny and has his own priorities:
• 
“Ai! That smarts, it does.” +1 if the Old Troll has 63 or 
less hit points.
• 
“Trusty foes you be.” +2 if there are Dúnedain or Elf-
folk in the Company. The Old Troll expects them to 
keep their promises, even to a Troll.
• 
“A tasty morsel, the boy.” -1 if the heroes insist that the 
Old Troll not eat Tomas.
• 
“What’s this? A map? A map to what, I ask thee?” +2 to 
-2, depending on what the companions say: a promised 
share of the treasure is a positive Expectation but if the 
heroes taunt the Old Troll with only news of a map 
then he becomes angry (a negative Expectation).
Introduction and Interaction
The Old Troll can be polite enough when he wants to be. 
The Company’s speaker can make the regular Traditions 
check, or they might wish to stall with a Riddle game or 
offer a bargain with Persuasion (a share of the treasure 
in exchange for Tomas and the map).
Once they get him talking, The Old Troll will become chatty 
enough. He’s in his lair and he figures he’ll be gnawing on 
their bones sooner or later, so he won’t rush this talk of 
gold and treasure maps.
Outcomes
The Old Troll’s response depends on the Final Audience 
Check:
Failure. “For a couple of pins, I’ll eat thee too, and gnaw 
thy shins!” The Troll breaks Tomas’ bones and attacks!
Success by 0-3. The Old Troll offers to let Tomas go and 
not to return to the graveyard at Bree – as long as the 
Company depart his lair (without the map) and never 
return. As a creature of shadow, the Troll has no intention 
of keeping his vow forever, but the Company can buy Bree 
a year or two of peace.
Success by 4-5. The Old Troll agrees to hand over the map, 
as long as the Company bring him a third of the treasure 
as tribute. If the Company agree, and then break their 
vow, that’s a Misdeed worth 3 Shadow points (breaking 
an oath is normally worth 4 points, but it is a promise to 
a Troll!).
Success by 6+. The Old Troll is so impressed – or cowed 
– by the Company that he offers them Timeas’ bones and 
the choice of any other item from his hoard (including the 
map) if they leave him be.
I’ve a Mind to Dine on thee Now
The Old Troll attacks! He moves with terrifying speed and 
ferocity, hurling bones and rocks as he charges, roaring 
loud enough to make the dead quail. This is the final 
battle with the Troll – he won’t flee from this fight.
1/4
2

--- PAGE 79 ---
79
If the Troll has Tomas, he wields the boy like a shield, 
increasing his Armour Class by 2. A hero can spend her 
action to wrestle Tomas from the Old Troll’s grasp by 
making an opposed Strength (Athletics) check. On a 
failure, Tomas takes 1d6 points of bludgeoning damage 
from the tug of war.
Remember to take advantage of the Old Troll’s Deadly 
Misfortune – any mistakes the Company make can be 
exploited to their fullest in his lair. If slain, the Old Troll 
collapses amidst the bone-piles of his victims.
A companion could take the distraction bought by 
the battle to run into the cave and search for the map. 
Alternatively, if you need some hope unlooked-for to rescue 
the companions, then Haleth could join the Company in 
battling the Old Troll.
Old Troll’s Treasure
The treasures of the cave, such as they are, are described 
in the table below. If the Company have killed or otherwise 
defeated the Troll, then there’s no need to roll on the table 
— they can gather all the treasure stuffed into cracks and 
odd corners in the cave, and pile it high before dividing 
it. They find everything listed on the table in addition to 
a hoard rated as 40*. However, any Worthless Trinkets 
found are guaranteed to have sentimental value (for each, 
the Loremaster should secretly assign a value equal to 
3d6+2 silver pennies for their safe return to their owner in 
Bree). On the other hand, if the Company steal from the 
lair piecemeal, roll on the table to see what they find. 
Coin-counting players may object, and argue that a Troll’s 
hoard usually contains much more wealth. Remind such 
players that they just found a treasure map.
1
1d12
Treasure Found
1
A pile of skulls, which collapses and alerts the Old Troll!
2
Nothing but a few well-gnawed bones.
3
A few skins of wine and a brace of stolen chickens – no treasure, but a good meal in the offing.
4
A scattering of coins from Bree, used as toothpicks by the Troll (total of 1g value).
5
A merchant’s purse. It contains 4d6+8 real silver pennies and a 5d6+95 tin coins painted to look like silver 
pennies (a DC 10 Intelligence (Investigation) check can spot the differences between the two).
6
The bones of a Dwarf. Hidden beneath these remains are 1d4 gold pieces.
7
A woman’s ring (2g or 4g if returned to the Thistlebrook family) and a woman’s finger (0c).
8
A necklace of gold, crudely made (2g inherent value, no sentimental value).
9
A cunning puzzle-box of Dwarven make. Opening it requires a DC 10 Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) check; 
inside are 2d6 gold pieces and a letter which, if delivered to the Blue Mountains, carries with it a reward of 
100 silver pennies.
10
A box containing cheap but well-wrought jewels and rings made by the Dwarves of the Blue Mountains (10g 
total value).
11
A coffin from Bree. The deceased was a notorious miser and his worldly wealth (5d20+200 silver pennies) 
is stitched into the lining of the casket. Taking money from the dead in this fashion is a Misdeed worth 1 
Shadow point.
12
Timeas’ Map
Old Bones and Skin

--- PAGE 80 ---
Bree-land Region Guide
80
- Part Six -
Old Skins and Sins
The map was entombed with Timeas Heatherton, wrapped 
around one shin and stuffed down the boot he was buried 
in. Now, it’s in the hands of the Company (and Tomas 
Heatherton, if he’s still alive). But the gloom of a Troll-hole 
is no place to examine a treasure map! If the heroes return 
to Bree or another safe place, you might allow them to take 
an abbreviated Fellowship phase as they spend some time 
puzzling over the map. Heroes who began the adventure 
at 1st level should have sufficient XP to become 2nd level, 
giving them an edge before the final conflict.
Wherever the heroes are, when they examine the map 
they find it is written on goatskin parchment, and depicts 
the area around Bree. There are no place-names on the 
map itself, just a few circles for towns and little pictures of 
trees and hills. Four lines converge at a cross-roads, and 
an arrow points towards the top of the map.
Around the borders of the map are runes, the Angerthas 
Moria, a mode of writing common to the Dwarves of the 
North.
Along the left edge of the map, they read HERE OF OLD 
WAS ARTHEDAIN LAST-KING.
Along the bottom, they read HERE ARE HALFLINGS IN 
MULTITUDE.
At the top of the map, the runes read HERE OF OLD WAS 
THE ROAD TO DURIN’S GATES.
And finally, to the right, HENCE CAME THE COMPANY TO 
SEEK TREASURE.
From the nature of the runes, the Company can easily 
guess it was made by a Dwarf, not by Timeas. That 
suggests that Timeas did not find the treasure himself; 
one of his erstwhile travelling companions found it, and 
he stole the map.
A successful DC 10 Intelligence (History) or Wisdom 
(Survival) check suggests it was made relatively recently, 
within the last twenty years or so. Timeas may have 
obtained it shortly before he returned to Bree from his 
mysterious travels.
If the map is Dwarf-made, then the arrow must point east 
as is traditional for Dwarven-drawn charts. Turning the 
map on its side makes the geography plain – the map 
centres on Bree-land, which makes sense. Timeas used the 
map to bring home treasure again and again, and he was 
never gone from Bree for long.
A close examination of the map — a DC 13 Intelligence 
(Investigation) check — suggests that it was in a fire, or 
deliberately burnt in places by being held too close to a 
candle or torch.
Hidden Information
If Tomas is still with the Company, then he scours the 
map, looking for a mark or a clue. He believed that there 
would be a clear sign on the map, like a nice big X marking 
the spot where his uncle’s treasure lies, but there’s no such 
mark. He desperately peers at the burnt marks, scraping 
them with a finger in the hopes that the ash will peel away 
and reveal more runes.
Questioning him prompts him to recall a memory. He 
remembers that his uncle always kept a candle in the box 
2

--- PAGE 81 ---
81
with the map, and took the candle with him whenever he 
went out to fetch money. It was a cheap, greasy, smoky 
candle too.
Unlocking the Map’s Secrets
If neither Tomas nor a Dwarf is in the Company, the 
Player-heroes may attempt to seek outside assistance. 
If they have time and a suitable ally or patron, they 
could visit someone more learned to ask about the 
map. Rivendell is a long way from Bree, but Elrond 
is something of an expert in these matters.
The Company might visit the Shire, in the hopes 
that Gandalf (or even Bilbo Baggins, who is after 
all a famous burglar with considerable experience 
in Dwarven cartography) could help them. Any such 
patron can point out the existence of smoke-letters 
(although in Bilbo’s case, the discovery is purely 
accidental; while examining the map, the gentle-
hobbit chokes on his pipe and coughs smoke over the 
map, revealing the letters).
 
Investigations in Bree
There are two possible lines of inquiry in Bree. First, 
if the Company met Grór the Dwarf, they could ask 
him for advice on reading the map. Grór is only too 
happy to assist the Company – it simplifies his task 
in finding Timeas’ treasure immeasurably.
Alternatively, the Company could talk to Nick 
Heatherton, Timeas’ brother. The farmer is none too 
happy to hear from the adventurers again, but if they 
kept Tom alive despite his foolishness, he agrees to 
talk to them. 
He recalls that he once saw his brother wave a smoky 
candle over the map, and that letters magically 
appeared on it. Why, that’s why he buried the map 
with Tim instead of burning it: he feared releasing 
some evil fire-spirit if the map burned. He urges the 
characters to hand over the map, or to weigh it down 
with stones and cast it into the river.
A Dwarf in the Company 
A Dwarf Player-hero may make a DC 10 Intelligence 
(Lore) check to recall the various forms of concealed 
writing that the Dwarves use: moon-letters, gem-letters, 
bloodletters, hearth-letters and so forth. Characters with 
a suitable trait like Rhymes of Lore may also roll. A Dwarf 
who possesses the Broken Spells Virtue automatically 
succeeds.
One such form of hidden writing is called smoke-letters. 
These invisible runes cause smoke to magically adhere 
to them, allowing them to be read briefly before a breeze 
carries the smoky shapes away.
The Smoke-letters
If the map is exposed to a source of smoke (even a pipe will 
do), then letters appear, marking a site in the Midgewater 
Marshes. The runes say “HERE LIES THE BLACK BARROW”, 
and nearby “HERE IS THE KING’S CHAIR”. The spot is only 
a few days’ travel outside Bree.
A successful DC 15 Intelligence (History or Lore) recalls 
nothing of the ‘Black Barrow’, but the ‘King’s Chair’ might 
be a reference to a stone chair in the midst of a ruin that 
lies half-sunk in the swamp. There was a mansion of some 
prince of one of the North-Kingdoms there once, long ago, 
and now all that remains is a weathered stone seat.
Tomas the Treacherous
If Tomas feels ill-done by the Company – if they’ve 
stolen the map, or ignored him, or left him for dead 
in a Troll-hole, or just traded away too much of ‘his’ 
treasure hoard – then he may betray them by striking 
off on his own once again.
This time, he returns to Bree and falls in with Grór 
the Dwarf, who is only too glad to listen to the young 
man’s tale of woe. Tomas then shows up in Part Eight 
– Though Dead He Be, It Belongs to Me! when Grór 
tries to claim the barrow.
1/4
1
Old Bones and Skin

--- PAGE 82 ---
Bree-land Region Guide
82
- Part Seven -
Finding the Barrow
The map tells the Company to head to the Midgewater 
Marshes. From Bree, the easiest way is to follow the 
Road and then cut north to find this ‘Black Barrow’. If the 
heroes investigated the map amidst the South Downs then 
they’ll want to strike west until they reach the Greenway, 
head north to the crossroads and then follow the above 
directions.
Trouble in Bree
If the Company is in Bree, or passes through on their 
way to the ‘Black Barrow’, they may meet Grór or Nick 
Heatherton again. If they come across Grór, have the most 
Suspicious or Wary companion make a DC 10 Wisdom 
(Perception) check. On a success, they spot the Dwarf 
meeting in an alleyway with a local troublemaker, a brute 
of a Brigand called Ham Granger.
Into the Marshes
According to Timeas’ map, the Black Barrow is near the 
‘King’s Chair’, around 50 miles north-west of Weathertop. 
If the Company knew exactly where they were going, then 
they could head straight for the spot and find the barrow 
quickly, but even with the King’s Chair as a guide, finding 
one particular mound in a morass is going to take time.
• 
The expedition into the Marshes involves 40 miles of 
travel across daunting terrain. It takes the Company 
8 days of hard slog through the swamps, producing 
1d2+2 Journey Events with a Peril Rating of 5.
Finding the King’s Chair
At the end of the journey, the Company come to the region 
around the ‘King’s Chair’. They may make an Arrival Roll, 
although there is nothing to greet them other than the 
swamp. Here it is a particularly ugly mire of mud, thorny 
bushes, low-lying islands amid the slime, and pestilent 
clouds of tiny, tiny insects that swarm into the Player-
heroes’ mouths and noses. It’s a vile, doleful place — the 
heroes are unable to take a long rest here, even if they 
have an ability that would grant them such a benefit.
Finding the King’s Chair requires a successful DC 13 
Intelligence (Investigation) check. If this check fails, 
the character gains a level of Exhaustion from slogging 
around in the mud. If all the companions fail the roll, they 
can try again the following day. Eventually, the explorers 
find a few jagged fingers of worked stone rising from the 
mud. There, a cracked and weathered marble floor can 
be found, half-sunk in the swamp. Here, the remains of 
a fallen  wall. This was once a town, perhaps, or a great 
palace in some past age.
At twilight, the Company finally come upon the King’s 
Chair. In the gloaming, it seems as though a figure sits 
on the broken seat, but as the companions come closer, 
they discover it is not a man – it is a huge nest of stinging 
insects! Disturbed, the insects swarm into the evening sky, 
and for an instant the companions have the disconcerting 
impression that the insect-swarm takes on the shape of 
a huge man-like figure, crowned with the dying sun. As 
the swarm flits away, the silence of the marsh is suddenly 
filled with the neek-breek sound of other insects.
Search for the Black Barrow 
To find the Black Barrow, the Company have two options.
• 
If a character sits in the King’s Chair, they find that 
one particular mound in the distance somehow seems 
more significant than all the rest. The character has 
the strong intuition that their father lies buried in that 
mound. A terrible feeling of sorrow and loss floods 
the hero’s soul (the hero must make a DC 15 Wisdom 
saving throw or gain 2 Shadow points).
• 
If the Company searches for it, each hero may attempt 
a DC 18 (Intelligence) Investigation check. On a 
failure, the companion gains a level of Exhaustion. 
On a success, the hero finds the Black Barrow. If the 
companion succeeds by 5 or more they also spot some 
bones in the bog.  Two bodies lie here, although all 
that can be said of them is that one was once a man, 
and the other set are the bones of a Dwarf. These were 
the members of Gorlanc’s company; Egri, murdered 
by Grón, and Grón, murdered by Timeas, many years 
ago.
The Black Barrow is a steep-sided mound lined with 
stones. Climbing up, the characters discover a large flat 
stone that’s clearly been moved several times in the past, 
judging by the scratch marks on its underside.
1/4
2
1
1

--- PAGE 83 ---
83
Pushing the stone aside lets out a waft of foul air that 
makes the companions’ torches flicker blue and green, 
followed by another swarm of flies. The way into the 
Barrow lies open…
- Part Eight -
Though Dead He Be, 
It Belongs To Me!
The Black Barrow consists of at least two chambers, upper 
and lower. The entrance from above leads into the upper 
chamber. The drop from the entrance hole to the floor of 
the upper chamber is some ten or twelve feet, so getting 
down requires a rope or some Acrobatics. Ask the players 
if the entire Company are descending into the barrow – 
the question as to who’s in the barrow and who’s still up 
top will shortly become very relevant.
The Upper Barrow
Climbing down, the characters find that the upper 
chamber is lined with four stone coffins, each containing 
the remains of some lordling of the North from ages past. 
There are several small jars and chests that once held 
treasures, but these have mostly been looted by Timeas 
over the years. Some coins remain, worth a total of 30g. 
The Company also find two bundles of moth-eaten 
personal effects – travelling gear, some Dwarf-made tools 
for tomb-robbing including a crowbar and a portable 
block-and-tackle, weapons and a few other trinkets. 
These belonged to Egri and Grón, two of Timeas’ former 
companions.
The only thing of note among these items is a partially 
legible letter that seems like it might once have been 
instructions on finding the barrow; the words ‘Barrow’, 
‘Weathertop’ and ‘unearth’ can be made out, as can the 
name ‘Gorlanc’ and the seal of a black bird.
The Lower Barrow
Another trapdoor leads down into the lower barrow. 
Slimy moss grows around this stone, and should the 
Company lever it up, they see that the lower barrow is 
flooded. They can  make out vague shapes through the 
murky water — are those swords? Is that another, grander, 
tomb? Could that shine there be gold, lost beneath the 
mud and cold water of the rising marshes?
Retrieving anything from the lower barrow requires a DC 
13 Strength (Athletics) check. On a success, the diver 
grabs a random item from the Lower Barrow Treasure 
Table, on the following page. 
If the diver succeeds by 5 or more they can retrieve 
two items (roll twice on the table) and on a natural 20 
they get three. On a failure, the character must choose 
between returning empty-handed, or finding one item 
and gaining a level of Exhaustion.
With results of 13-19, mark items off the table as they are 
found. Rolling a result a second time means the character 
comes up empty-handed.
1
1/2
Old Bones and Skin

--- PAGE 84 ---
Bree-land Region Guide
84
1d20
Treasure Found
1
A spectral hand grabs the treasure-seeker, 
pulling its victim down into the darkness. 
The hero must make a DC 15 Strength 
saving throw or gain a level of Exhaustion. 
On a success, the diver can swim to the 
surface. If they spend Inspiration they can 
wrest a Wondrous Artefact (page 127 of 
the Loremaster’s Guide) from the spirit. 
A companion that fails the saving throw 
can attempt it again, gaining a level of 
Exhaustion on each failure.
2-7
1d6 gold pieces
8-10
4d6 x 10 silver pennies
11-12
2d6 gold pieces, 10d6 silver pennies
13
A small gold ring, worth 5g.
14
A casket of coins (4d6 gold pieces, 6d6 silver 
pennies, 6d20 copper coins). To carry the 
casket to the surface, the diver must gain a 
level of Exhaustion.
15
A ring of silver, studded with a fine emerald 
(total value 10g).
16
A jewelled sword-hilt, worth 20g or more.
17
Pearls of great worth, total value 20g.
18
A lordly chain of gold, bearing the emblem of 
Arthedain. Worth 20g or more.
19
A golden crown, bearing seven shining 
sapphires, worth 50g.
20
If the hero receives this result and spends 
Inspiration, they recover a Legendary 
Weapon or Armour from the muck. See page 
132 of the Loremaster’s Guide.
If you want to use the rules for hoards found in the 
Rivendell Region Guide, the total value is 150*, if the 
companions are able to take the time to properly empty 
the barrow.
Gror’s Treachery
Grór the Dwarf came to Bree looking for old Timeas’ map. 
He was responsible, to a degree, for Timeas’ unexpected 
death. When he realised that the Player-heroes were 
already on the trail of the map, he conceived a plan to 
let them brave the Troll-den and the other dangers; he 
would follow them all the while, and then murder them as 
Timeas murdered his brother Grón.
He arrives at the barrow accompanied by a number of 
Brigands and hired Thugs from Bree. Depending on how 
your adventure unfolded, he might also be accompanied 
by one of the Heathertons.
• 
If the Company maligned or insulted Tomas, then 
Tomas fell in with Grór and told him everything.
• 
If Tomas is with the Company, then Grór is 
accompanied by Nick Heatherton, Tom’s father (a 
Farmer). Grór fooled the older man by pretending 
to be concerned for Tom’s safety, and Nick told Grór 
enough about his brother’s travels for the Dwarf to 
guess the location of the Black Barrow.
If one or more of the companions are outside the barrow, 
then call for a DC 10 Wisdom (Perception) check. If 
successful, they spot Grór and his allies approaching in 
time to shout a warning to those below. If the Company 
are taken unawares, then they’re in a sticky situation – 
Grór’s plan is to quickly defeat any characters outside the 
Barrow, and then close the entrance, leaving those inside 
to starve. A few days without food or water or light should 
be enough to soften up the hardiest adventurer.
If he gets the opportunity for a villainous speech, Grór 
says: “my master sent me to fetch the map, but I’ve found 
a far richer prize. Timeas murdered my brother Grón on 
this very hill, and if there was any justice, ’twould be his 
bones that lie below and not my brothers’. Still, he shall 
not sleep alone.”
If he’s accompanied by one of the Heathertons, then at 
this point he spins around, stabs his companion, and 
kicks the Heatherton into the barrow. A successful DC 
10 Wisdom  (Medicine) check can save the life of the 
wounded man, but it takes several rounds to staunch the 
flow of blood. If Tom’s the one pushed into the barrow, 
then he breaks his leg in the fall and is forever lame. To 
the companions, Grór says “I have little quarrel with ye. 
Hand over your weapons and any of my treasure that 
you’ve stolen, and I might let you live.”
1

--- PAGE 85 ---
85
The Battle of the Black Barrow
Grór’s brought one brute for every companion, half 
(rounding down) are Brigands, the remainder are Thugs. 
So, if you have five Player-heroes, they face two Brigands 
and three Thugs. 
Grór stays back (“watching for sneaks and ranger-sorts” he 
says to the hired men) and does not join into the combat 
unless he feels it’s the only way to defeat the Company. 
• 
Climbing out of the Barrow. If there is a rope, 
or someone helping a character climb up, it is easy 
to climb out of the barrow, and does not require a 
check. If there is no rope and no help, then climbing 
out requires a DC 10 Strength (Athletics) check. 
Attempting a climb requires the character’s action for 
the round, and only one character can enter or exit 
the barrow at a time.
• 
Jumping or Falling into the Barrow. The drop 
down is 10 feet or more, so the creature takes 1d6 
bludgeoning damage. A successful DC 10 Strength 
or Dexterity saving throw prevents this damage.
• 
The Shades of Men. If you need to give the Player-
heroes an edge, remember this is a barrow of the 
North-Kingdom, and within sight of a spot associated 
with the kings of old. It would not be unfitting for the 
earth to suddenly shift beneath Grór’s feet, or some 
of his brutes quail as the mists close in and they 
suddenly fear the presence of ghosts.
Entombed!
If the Company do get buried alive in the Black Barrow, they’re in trouble! Each member of the Company must 
make a Corruption check (a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw) each day to avoid gaining 2 points of Shadow. Once the 
food runs out, each day the heroes must make a DC 10 Constitution saving throw or gain a level of Exhaustion.
There are ways to escape, however. The Company could try digging their way out of the barrow; doing so is a 
prolonged action requiring a total of 10 successes on DC 10 Strength (Athletics or Miner’s Tools) checks. Each 
player may make one check each day. They are at Disadvantage without tools, roll normally with improvised tools 
such as mattocks, or with Advantage if the Company were clever enough to bring spades. Failing a check with a 
natural 1 means a cave-in.
They could try parleying with the Dwarf. As Grór said, if they surrender everything, he might let them live. It’s 
unlikely that the players will be willing to humble themselves so, but it is a way out – and they can always return 
in the future for revenge on Grór. 
Alternatively, clever Player-heroes could lure Grór down into the barrow by playing on the notorious Dwarven 
love of treasure; by describing the treasure of the lower barrow with a DC 20 Charisma (Performance or 
Persuasion) check, they could overcome his resolve and convince him that if he doesn’t claim the treasure right now, 
the adventurers will hide it or somehow make off with it. Alternatively, they could trick Grór by pretending to 
surrender. Depending on the Company’s plan, it may be appropriate to award them Shadow points.
Another option might be to swim into the murk of the lower barrow. The water got in somehow – maybe the 
adventurers could escape the same way. There is, indeed, a crack in the foundations through which the mire leaked 
in, and a Hobbit or other Small character could squeeze through the water and mud with a DC 16 Strength 
(Athletics) check; failing the check means the character gains a level of Exhaustion while escaping.
Old Bones and Skin

--- PAGE 86 ---
Bree-land Region Guide
86
- Epilogue -
Of Earth and Water, 
Blood and Bone
How many bodies now lie in the tomb of the Black Barrow? 
Has the Company saved the Heathertons from the sins of 
Uncle Tim, or is sorrow compounded on sorrow? Now 
neither Tom nor Nick have any desire for a share of the 
treasure from the Black Barrow, so the companions may 
claim it all if they have the stomach for it (unless, of course, 
they owe the Old Troll some money…).
If Tom survives, he returns chastened to Bree, and puts 
aside any thoughts of treasure or adventure.
And if the Old Troll survives, he returns to his Troll-hole all 
alone, gnawing on old bones.
Tom’s leg is game, since home he came,
And his bootless foot is lasting lame;
But Troll don’t care, and he’s still there
With the bone he boned from its owner.

--- PAGE 87 ---
87
- Strange men, - 
Strange Roads 
For heroes of level 3 or 4
• 
When: This quest could be set in the late spring or 
early summer of any year, but is designed to be run 
after the events of Old Bones and Skin.
• 
Where: The adventure is mostly set on the Road west 
of the Forsaken Inn, travelling to both the Chetwood 
and Bree.
• 
 What: A Ranger of the North has been murdered. 
The companions must stalk a band of travellers to 
identify the killers hiding amongst them.
• 
Why: The Company is assumed to be allied with the 
Rangers of the North, or at least friendly enough with 
the Rangers that they would investigate the murder 
of one. If the Company isn’t known to the Rangers, 
Haleth (see page 76) may be a useful way to introduce 
them or may ask them to investigate directly.
• 
Who: Two of the travellers are followers of Gorlanc 
(see page 124) travelling into the west. The key figure 
is Berelas, a healer from Mirkwood who secretly 
carries a magical treasure bound for Gorlanc.
• 
Themes: Everyone has secrets and even the best 
of intentions can be led astray by the Shadow into 
doing great evil. But mercy may turn the blade of the 
enemy before the end.
Adventuring Phase
This adventure is divided into eight parts, and begins at 
the Forsaken Inn and ends in Bree.
Part One – At the Forsaken Inn
The Company travel to the Forsaken Inn, a day’s ride east 
of Bree, to meet with a Ranger. When their contact fails to 
arrive, they must discover what happened to him.
Part Two – The Body in the Well
Their investigations reveal that the Ranger was murdered 
and thrown down a well. Circumstantial evidence points 
to the identity of his killers.
Part Three – The Traders’ Caravan
The Company spies upon the group of travellers and 
traders who just departed the Forsaken Inn. Among them 
are the murderers.
Part Four – The Strangers in the 
Woods
The companions encounter Elves in the Chetwood, and 
learn something of the stakes.
Part Five – Not to Strike Without 
Need
Beregal turns aside from her errand to heal a sick family.
Part Six – Knives in Bree
When the travellers stop in Bree, another crime is 
committed in the night.
Part Seven – Before the Reeve
Having identified (or, at the very least, believing they have 
identified) the Ranger’s killer, the companions must meet 
with the Reeve of Bree.
Part Eight – The Choices of Mistress 
Beregal
Guided by the wisdom of the Player-heroes, Beregal 
chooses her fate.
Epilogue – The Assault on Gorlanc’s Fort
The sorcerer Gorlanc has not reckoned on the might of 
Rivendell. The companions either hear about, or witness 
for themselves, the destruction of Gorlanc’s fortress by the 
Elves.
- Part One -
At the Forsaken Inn
The Company have come to the Forsaken Inn (see page 
22) to meet a contact of theirs, the Ranger Mallor, called 
Tarry-Mack by the folk of Bree. 
Mallor might have promised to bring news from the 
East or South to the Company, or have agreed to join 
the Player-heroes on an Orc-hunt or some other errand. 
Characters who know Haleth (see page 76) might be sent 
to meet Mallor on her behalf.
Strange Men, Strange Roads

--- PAGE 88 ---
Bree-land Region Guide
88
If the Company are primarily Bree-landers or wandering 
adventurers from Wilderland, then they might have been 
sent to meet Mallor by a patron like Gandalf, Elrond or 
Beorn – Tarry-Mack has travelled east of the mountains 
in his time.
Even if the Company have never met Tarry-Mack, they will 
know his reputation: he is argumentative, uncommonly 
ugly and has very few friends, but is loyal and stalwart 
to those he likes. He travels alone, walking from shore to 
mountains and back again.
Whatever reason the Loremaster selects, the reasons for 
the meeting should be introduced as part of a previous 
Adventuring or Fellowship phase. As our story opens, 
the Company has come to the Forsaken Inn on a warm 
summer’s evening.
Strangers at the Inn
Even the rosy last light of a pleasant spring or summer 
day cannot make the Forsaken Inn look welcoming. The 
tumbledown building looks like the corpse of an inn, and 
it’s only the ponies and carts outside that suggest the inn 
is still in business.
Inside, the small common room is crowded with members 
of a trading caravan that’s heading west (these traders 
are discussed in detail in Part Three). The Company see 
several Dwarves, and a few grim-looking dangerous 
Men. They can try talking to the travellers with a DC 10 
Intelligence (Riddle) check, but any conversations are 
cut short by the Caravan-master, Edoric.
“I want to make Bree before the week’s out. I’ve a crick in 
my neck from sleeping rough, and I ain’t going to get much 
rest in this festering pit. To bed, sluggards! We march 
before the break of dawn.”
Grumbling, the Men of the caravan finish their drinks and 
head to the communal sleeping-room at the back of the 
inn. The Dwarves ignore Edoric and continue drinking 
and talking amongst themselves in low whispers. It 
doesn’t take an Insight check to see that the traders don’t 
care much for one another.
Should anyone try to eavesdrop on the Dwarves, they switch 
to their own strange tongue, or stop talking altogether.
The Size of the Caravan
The nine key members of the caravan are described 
in Part Three – The Traders’ Caravan. You can add 
more guards and travellers to the caravan as needed; 
for this adventure to work, there need to be enough 
travellers in the group that the Player-heroes cannot 
challenge the caravan openly and interrogate them to 
find out what happened to Mallor the Ranger.
If you only have three or four Player-heroes, then 
Edoric’s company of eight should be big enough to 
dissuade all but the most foolhardy from trying a 
direct approach. On the other hand, if you’re lucky 
enough to have six or seven players, then add a 
few more guards to make battling the caravan less 
appealing.
The Innkeeper
The current owner of the Forsaken Inn — or, at least, 
the only one willing to lay claim to the place — is Jack. 
He’s the owner, bartender, brewer, cook and clerk too, 
although he only does one of those jobs with any degree of 
enthusiasm. Eventually, he returns to the common room 
and acknowledges the Company’s presence. “We’re full 
tonight,” he says with a grin. “I can squeeze you in, but it’ll 
cost double.”
(If anyone points out that it’s a warm night and they 
can just sleep outside, then Jack happily describes, in 
loving and gleeful detail, all the bugs that swarm out of 
the nearby Midgewater Marshes on nights like this, and 
exactly what sorts of bites and boils they inflict on tasty 
travellers.)
When asked about the Ranger, Jack shrugs. “Tarry-Mack? 
He was in early, with a face on him that’d sour beer. Sit 
yourself down there and order a drink; he’ll be back soon, 
no doubt.”
Mallor’s Pack
A hero with a passive Perception of 15 or higher (or a more 
Keen-eyed or Suspicious companion who makes a DC 15 
check) spots a weathered backpack and bedroll stashed 
1/2
1/4

--- PAGE 89 ---
89
behind the bar; a Ranger’s gear. If challenged, Jack admits 
the pack belongs to Tarry-Mack; the Ranger left it behind 
when he left earlier in the evening. See The Pack, page 91.
The Missing Ranger
The night draws in. The fire in the grate dwindles. The 
Dwarves rise and retire to bed. Soon, Jack’s snoring by 
the embers (sleeping, as he always does, with a naked 
short-sword across his legs, in case anyone tries to rob 
him in the night). Still, there is no sign of Mallor. If roused 
(carefully), Jack snorts at the idea of worrying about a 
Ranger. “They’re like stray dogs; you don’t see ’em for days, 
and then they come snuffling at your door demanding 
food. He’ll show up. He always does.”
Questioning the traders is equally fruitless at this point. 
Edoric has no love for Rangers, thinking them nothing 
more than thieves and troublemakers, and has a special 
dislike of Tarry-Mack. “He was snooping around earlier, 
no doubt planning to rob me or mine. Now, be off with 
you!”
If the Player-heroes try searching for Mallor in the 
darkness, it’s challenging — a DC 20 Intelligence 
(Investigation) check.
A successful roll finds a broken knife thrown in an 
outbuilding at the back of the inn; the hilt is marked with 
an M-rune, suggesting it is Mallor’s blade. The blade is 
unnaturally cold, icy even, to the touch. Success by 5 or 
more finds some spilled blood nearby; a natural 20 finds 
the body in the well (see Part Two – The Body in the Well).
If the companions fail, then they must wait until daybreak 
to conduct a more thorough search.
Departure of the Trading Caravan
As Edoric promised, the caravan departs before dawn, 
leaving in the ghostly grey light that presages the rising 
of the sun. In the gloom, the travellers look like ghosts 
assembling for some dread purpose, and it is oddly hard 
to get a count of their number.
The trading caravan sets off west, heading for Bree. The 
Forsaken Inn is a day’s ride away from Bree, but the 
caravan sets a much slower pace; they’ll be lucky to reach 
Bree in three or four days.
Searching By Daylight
With the help of the sun, searching for signs of Mallor is 
much easier. The Company can find the spilled blood at 
the back of the inn automatically. Bloodshed implies a 
sinister reason behind Mallor’s absence, and prompts a 
further search.
Another Shadow of the Past
The events of the previous evening were set in motion 
long, long ago. Many years previously, a scholar of 
ill-repute named Gorlanc led a company of treasure-
hunters and thieves. He defiled the tombs of the 
Dúnedain, and was driven out of the North by the 
Rangers (see page 69 for the first part of this tale). 
Now, Gorlanc has returned to the North after many 
years’ devilry and knavery in the South. Mallor was 
one of the Rangers who fought against Gorlanc, 
and remembers well his battle against the scholar’s 
servants. Two of the members of the caravan, the 
mountebank Hirlinon and the healer Berelas, are 
servants of Gorlanc, and they carry with them a 
treasure that belongs to the scholar – a Ring of 
Power, recovered from a ruined vault in Eregion.
Some foresight or intuition caused Mallor to spy on 
Berelas. When the members of the trading caravan 
were eating in the inn last evening, he crept into 
their sleeping quarters and searched her baggage. 
There, he found an amulet bearing the symbol of 
Gorlanc. Suspecting Berelas of being in league with 
the scholar, he tried to follow her when she slipped 
out to meet with Hirlinon, but he was discovered by a 
Shade sent by Gorlanc. The Shade wounded him, and 
Hirlinon cut his throat and threw Mallor down the 
well while the Ranger was stunned. Now, Hirlinon 
and Berelas are once more safe and concealed within 
the traders’ caravan, and each step down the Road 
brings them closer to Gorlanc.
Gorlanc himself has occupied a ruined fort south of 
Fornost, where he is gathering all sorts of Evil Men 
to his banner.
1
1/2
Strange Men, Strange Roads

--- PAGE 90 ---
Bree-land Region Guide
90
- Part Two -
The Body in the Well
Searching around brings the companions to an old well 
near the Road.
Recovering Tarry-Mack
Mallor’s body floats face down in the dark waters below. 
The body would have been completely invisible by night; 
it’s only visible as a black shape against blacker water by 
day. Recovering the Ranger’s corpse requires a companion 
to climb down the narrow, slime-slick shaft and tie a rope 
around Mallor’s waist.
The body is weirdly, impossibly cold to the touch. His 
right hand is so frozen that it’s covered in a layer of ice. 
His throat has also been cut, but the wound is relatively 
clean and free from gore; it is as though his blood was so 
cold and thick that it oozed out instead of spurting from 
a mortal wound. His face bears an expression of pure 
horror, and his eyes are both frozen and covered in ice.
His coin-purse and some other belongings are still with 
him. His sword and travelling pack are missing (the pack 
Tarry-Mack lacks is back at the inn; his sword sank down 
into the mud at the bottom of the well and is lost). 
A character with proficient with Shadow-lore or a 
Dúnadan with the Dauntless Guardians Virtue, can guess 
that something supernatural was involved in Mallor’s 
death. Icy cold and death-by-terror are horrors associated 
with wraiths – but what undead monster would pause to 
slit a victim’s throat, and why would a wraith hide the 
body?
Other Clues
A successful DC 13 Intelligence (Investigation) check 
finds the still-icy dagger in the outbuilding; success by 
5 or more finds footprints and scuff marks that let the 
Company recreate Mallor’s last movements.
It appears that the Ranger was hiding by the wall, as 
if eavesdropping on someone, when he spun around 
abruptly as if surprised. Someone then dragged his 
unconscious or dead form and threw him down the old 
well.
Questioning the Innkeeper
A successful DC 10 Charisma (Intimidation or 
Persuasion) check when questioning Jack the Innkeeper 
reveals the following information about Tarry-Mack and 
the events of the previous day:
• 
Tarry-Mack turned up around noon. He was the 
only customer at the inn for a few hours. He always 
annoyed Jack: the Ranger had this talent for breathing 
in a way that would turn the gentlest Hobbit into a 
remorseless killer. Whenever Jack did anything in the 
inn, Tarry-Mack would snort as if to say “you’re going 
1/2
1/2
1

--- PAGE 91 ---
91
to mess that up, you idiot, and I’m going to sit here 
and drink your beer and watch you suffer”.
• 
When Edoric’s caravan showed up, Tarry-Mack made 
himself scarce. He did the Ranger thing of hiding in a 
corner, smoking and listening to everyone. Jack had 
the impression that Tarry-Mack was expecting the 
caravan, but the travellers didn’t seem to know him 
and didn’t talk much to him (not that Jack can blame 
them – who’d want to talk to that Ranger).
• 
At one point, when the newcomers were eating, Tarry-
Mack left the common room. He returned a few 
minutes later.
• 
One of the Dwarves in the travelling company 
demanded to know where Tarry-Mack had gone, 
and all but accused the Ranger of stealing from the 
caravan. Edoric talked the Dwarf down, and then 
threatened Tarry-Mack, telling the Ranger to beat it 
and begone. Jack doesn’t recall which Dwarf it was.
• 
Later on, Tarry-Mack went out again, and that’s the 
last Jack saw of him until the companions brought 
word of the Ranger’s death.
• 
He doesn’t know what happened to Tarry-Mack; 
maybe the Ranger got into a fight with Edoric or a 
Dwarf. Jack won’t shed any tears for Tarry-Mack.
If the companions fail the check, then Jack claims to 
remember nothing of use. The inn was very busy last 
night, after all.
A second successful check, or generosity on the part of 
the Player-heroes, prompts Jack to remember that Tarry-
Mack left his pack behind the bar. Alternatively, a DC 
10 Wisdom (Insight or Perception) check allows the 
players discover the pack for themselves (Jack intends to 
loot the pack and sell the dead man’s belongings once the 
Company are gone).
The Pack
Mallor’s pack contains well-made travelling gear, as one 
would expect of a Ranger. Down at the bottom, underneath 
blankets and other supplies, is a flask of silver containing 
a tonic made in Rivendell; drinking from it restores 2d4+2 
hit points. There’s a single draught left in the flask.There’s 
also a little bundle of cloth, and wrapped in that bundle is 
a small amulet made of greenish glass, held on a golden 
chain. There’s a strange symbol on the amulet.
• 
A character that makes a DC 15 Intelligence 
(Shadow-lore) check, or who might plausibly know 
about Gorlanc, recognises the symbol as Gorlanc’s 
rune.
• 
Jack can guess that the amulet doesn’t belong to the 
Ranger, and crows that Tarry-Mack has finally been 
exposed as a robber. He only wishes the Ranger was 
still alive so he could rub it in his face.
Finding the Murderer
It’s clear that Mallor’s death is somehow connected to 
the traders’ caravan. However, the Player-heroes aren’t 
likely to possess the authority to question the members 
of the caravan, and based on Edoric’s behaviour last 
night, they might guess that if they accused a member 
of the caravan without solid proof, Edoric would turn on 
them and they’d have to fight all the travellers. The best 
option is to follow the caravan, eavesdrop on it, and try 
to find out more.
1/2
Strange Men, Strange Roads

--- PAGE 92 ---
Bree-land Region Guide
92
The Ring of Seven Jewels
This Ring of Power was forged by the folk of the 
Whispering Halls (see Rivendell Region Guide, page 
37) in the middle days of the Second Age. It was one 
of their last essays in Ring-lore, before they turned 
their hands towards the forging of the Great Rings, 
and as such it is extremely powerful.
Unfortunately, 
the 
ring 
was 
tainted 
in 
the 
destruction of Eregion, for the Elf-lord who wore it 
last was captured and tortured by the Enemy, and 
her suffering stained the Seven Jewels. Now, while 
the Ring greatly enhances the spirit and might 
of anyone who wears it, it twists the wearer’s soul 
towards darkness.
The Ring grants Advantage on all saving throws 
made while it is worn. The ring also has a most 
peculiar Greater Blessing, affecting whatever skill 
the wearer most desires to use when appealing to its 
powers. But the Ring is doubly cursed, increasing the 
wearer’s Shadow total by 5 points (Shadow Taint) 
and attracting the attention of the Enemy (Hunted). 
(For details about the effects of Blessings and the 
Ring’s Curses, see the Loremaster’s Guide, page 
127 and the Rivendell Region Guide, page 101, 
respectively.)
- Part Three -
The Trader’s Caravan
"I have quick ears", he went on, lowering his voice, "and 
though I cannot disappear, I have hunted many wild and 
wary things and I can usually avoid being seen, if I wish. 
Now, I was behind the hedge this evening on the Road west 
of Bree, when four Hobbits came out of the Downlands…"
The caravan left the Forsaken Inn ahead of the Player-
heroes, but it’s easy to catch up with it, especially when 
the heavy carts get stuck in the mud. It’s summer and the 
Player-heroes are on or near the Road, so running this as a 
journey is optional. A Company that reliably shadows the 
caravan will have quite enough to occupy their attention 
in any case.
Spying & Eavesdropping
The safest approach, assuming the Player-heroes are 
relatively stealthy, is to hide in the hedgerows and small 
copses along the Road and eavesdrop on the caravan as 
it travels. Close observation and keen ears give clues as to 
who plotted against Tarry-Mack.
It takes the caravan four days to get to Bree. Each day, any 
of the companions may try their hand at spying. Doing so 
requires a Stealth check; it’s DC 13 on the first day, DC 
10 on days two and three as the Road passes the eaves 
of the Chetwood, and DC 13 again on the last day as the 
caravan draws near Bree.
• 
Before they spy on the caravan, give the players the 
surface details (see opposite) of all the members of 
the caravan, so they can pick their targets.
• 
On a normal success, the companion may watch one 
of the people in the caravan. Watching a target means 
the companion gets the first impressions and close 
associates of that target.
• 
If the hero succeeds by 5 or more, the companion may 
watch an additional person or grant Advantage to 
another Player-hero’s Stealth check.
• 
If the Stealth check fails, the companion can’t get 
close enough to the caravan to glean any useful 
information. If the companion fails with a natural 1, 
the caravan guards spot the intruder and give chase. 
This may lead to Confronting the Caravan (on page 
99) if the hero cannot escape.
Companions who don’t attempt a Stealth check are 
assumed to be shadowing the caravan from a safe distance; 
they don’t get to observe anyone, but can speculate about 
motives and offer suggestions to the spies.
Deeper Secrets
Each of the key characters in the caravan has a digging 
deeper entry, and some have secrets. Once the players 
have decided which members of the caravan to investigate,
they can try to discover this additional information. This 
1
1

--- PAGE 93 ---
93
may require more eavesdropping, or sneaking into the 
caravan camp at night to steal items or ask questions.
The Caravan
The caravan consists of nine (or more!) travellers, two 
heavy, horse-drawn carts, and ten ponies laden with 
baggage. It’s split roughly between Men and Dwarves. 
For each member of the caravan, the description includes: 
Background: The first section provides a brief description 
of the character for the Loremaster.
Game Rules: Each traveller is provided relevant game 
statistics, including full entries for those who are not 
easily represented by another entry.
Surface Details: What an observer sees immediately, 
without needing to spy.
Observation & Investigation
Much of this part of the adventure assumes that the Player-heroes are stealthily gathering information and observing 
the suspects. Therefore, several scenes may simply play out with the companions lurking and not getting involved.
Don’t just passively read the text out to the players; make gathering that information interesting and challenging. 
Call for Stealth, Perception, Investigation and Insight checks when needed (assign Difficulty Classes as appropriate 
to keep dramatic tension but allow the heroes a good chance of success). Give them only fragments of a scene, and 
force them to sneak closer to learn more. Listen to their speculation about what’s going on, and drop clues to disrupt 
their theories. If they settle on Hirlinon early on as the prime suspect, then have Eoin talk about how he’s secretly 
in love with Mistress Berelas and he’d do anything to be with her, and let them wonder if the poor boy was the 
perpetrator of a crime of passion.
If the players do reveal their presence, then their interactions with the various Loremaster characters should primarily 
reveal information instead of altering the plot prematurely. If they suggest that Narvi and Narvig should come 
adventuring to earn money, then Narvi could hint that they’ve got an easier method of getting rich and repaying 
their father’s debts. If the characters start prodding Berelas’ conscience, then have Hirlinon threaten her to keep her 
in line.
A Direct Approach
If Berelas suspects she’s in danger, then she calls upon the Cold Shade (see page 100) to harry any eavesdroppers. 
An encounter with the Cold Shade is a good way to lead in to Part Four – Strangers in the Woods. Optionally, you 
can run Wild Beasts (see page 101) to break up the journey, especially if it seems that the players are determined to 
force a confrontation with Edoric before the caravan reaches Bree.
Other Approaches
The players might try other methods of investigation, like infiltrating the caravan ("Hail! I am an Elf of Rivendell, 
one of the High Elves of the West, who crossed the Sea in the First Age of the World to make war on the Enemy and 
take back the Silmarils from the Iron Crown. Now I am a simple caravan-guard looking for work…") or secretly 
questioning members of the caravan if they wander away from the Road. As long as the Player-heroes don’t commit 
any deeds that would incur Shadow gain, any approach to investigation should work. Be flexible – this adventure 
describes the likeliest path taken by the players, but your group may find their own path. You may need to skip onto 
Part Eight – The Choices of Mistress Berelas early, or improvise your own events based on the plans of the various 
Loremaster characters and the actions of your players.
Strange Men, Strange Roads

--- PAGE 94 ---
Bree-land Region Guide
94
First Impressions: What the observer learns after a day 
of spying and eavesdropping.
Close Associates: Who the target associates with on the 
journey.
Digging Deeper: What the Player-heroes need to do to 
learn more.
Secrets: The dark secrets, if any, concealed by the caravan 
member.
Edoric, the Guide
Edoric is of the Enedwaith, kin to the Dunlendings, who 
dwell far to the south of Eriador along the coast, near 
where the Greyflood empties into the sea. Edoric is not the 
name he was given by his mother, but the name he uses 
when travelling in the North.
His is a restless soul; he has not seen the land of his birth 
in twenty years, and he knows he shall die on the Road. He 
is an experienced caravan guide; he has led traders from 
the Blue Mountains to the Great Ford, but he has never 
gone east of the Anduin.
He’s fiercely protective of those in his care; all he has in his 
life is his professional reputation.
Edoric
Medium Human
STR 
19 (+4)
DEX 
11 (+0)
CON 
16 (+3)
INT 
10 (+0)
WIS 
14 (+2)
CHA 
9 (-1)
Armour Class 14 (Ring-mail)
Hit Points 45 (6d8+18)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Athletics +6, Perception +4, Survival +4
Senses passive Perception 14
Languages Dunlending, Westron
Challenge 2 (450 XP)
Leadership. As a bonus action, Edoric can command 
a nearby ally that has not yet acted this round. That 
creature takes its turn immediately after Edoric.
Unyielding (Recharge 5-6). Edoric can use his bonus 
action to gain 6 temporary hit points.
Actions
Spear. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 
5 ft or range 20/60 ft, one target. Hit: 7 (1d6+4) piercing 
damage or 8 (1d8+4) if used with two hands to make a 
melee attack.
Reactions
Defend Ally (Recharge 5-6). If an ally is within 5 feet of 
Edoric, he may use his reaction to impose Disadvantage 
on an attack roll against that ally.
Surface Details: A big man with weathered skin and a 
well-worn cloak, leaning heavily on his spear. He walks 
with a rangy pace, eating up the miles.

--- PAGE 95 ---
95
First Impressions: Edoric seems to be in charge; he’s the 
one barking orders, getting the animals moving, tending 
to everything. He seems constantly impatient.
Close Associates: Berelas, Eoin, Narvig, Mirabar.
Digging Deeper: With a successful DC 10 Wisdom 
(Insight) check, it’s clear that Edoric isn’t in charge; he’s 
employed as a guide as far as Bree. If the characters wait 
until Bree before intervening, or if they can prove that one 
of Edoric’s employers acted treacherously at the Forsaken 
Inn, they might be able to avoid facing the big man in battle.
Secrets: None. He’s an honest man.
Eoin, the Bree-lander
Eoin is a young man of Bree. This is his first journey 
outside Bree-land; he travelled from Bree as far as the 
High Pass, and now believes he has seen all the world. 
He’s a simple, honest fellow, hired by Edoric because he 
has a strong back and follows orders.
Game Rules: Eoin uses the Town Guard statistics on page 
69 of the Loremaster’s Guide.
Surface Details: Fresh-faced, wide-eyed.
First Impressions: A young man of no more than fifteen 
summers, all of them gentle. He seems to be the caravan’s 
scout and errand boy. He knows these roads well – he 
must be from the Breeland.
Close Associates: Edoric, Berelas.
Digging Deeper: If a companion eavesdrops on him in the 
woods, they’ll discover that, alone, Eoin talks to himself. 
He believes himself to be in love with Berelas (he only met 
her a few weeks ago, but to him she’s sophisticated and 
exotic, an enchantress from across the mountains) and 
declares passionately that he would die to defend her. 
He’s less fond of her ‘brother’ Hirlinon.
Secrets: A DC 10 Charisma (Intimidation) check forces 
Eoin to admit that he saw Berelas and Hirlinon leaving 
the common-room of the Forsaken Inn together after the 
meal, and that they went out “looking for healing herbs”. 
That was around the time that the Ranger was murdered.
Vig, Brother of Vogar
Old Vig is the eldest of the four Dwarves in the caravan, 
and their leader. He is a smith, and if he once dreamed 
of forging swords and shields for some King under the 
Mountain, he has long since put those dreams aside. He 
is a tinker, fixing pots and pans.
Game Rules: Use the Dwarf statistics on page 78 of the 
Loremaster’s Guide for Vig.
Surface Details: An old white-bearded Dwarf, carrying 
the tools of a smith.
First Impressions: Vig is very protective of his brother 
Vogar. He speaks for him, watches over him as they travel, 
and is always by his side.
Close Associates: Vogar, Narvig, Narvi.
Digging Deeper: If a companion eavesdrops by night, 
they hear Vig in conversation with Berelas. She says that 
there are healing salves and herbs that can cure almost 
any injury, but such treatments are not cheap. Vig tears at 
his beard and confesses that he has no money to spare. He 
casts a venomous glare at Mirabar as he says this.
Secrets: Vig is deeply indebted to Mirabar, and owes 
him a fortune. He ran into debt when his brother Vogar 
was wounded by an Orc, and Vig had to stop working in 
the forge to care for him. The forge burnt down, and Vig 
had to borrow money from Mirabar to survive. Now, he 
Strange Men, Strange Roads

--- PAGE 96 ---
Bree-land Region Guide
96
is a homeless wandering tinker-smith, trying to scrape 
together enough coin to repay the money-lender. In game 
terms, Vig owes around 50 gold pieces to Mirabar.
Vogar, Brother of Vig
Vogar was once a Dwarf-warrior of some renown, a 
champion of the Blue Mountains. Indeed, he was among 
those who volunteered to accompany Thorin Oakenshield 
on the Quest of Erebor. Tragedy struck before Vogar could 
depart; he met a band of Orcs in the Wild, and one of 
them struck him a blow so terrible that it sundered both 
Vogar’s helm and the skull beneath. He survived, but his 
wits were addled by the injury, and now he suffers from 
both agonising headaches and blinding fits of rage.
Vogar
Medium Dwarf
STR 
19 (+4)
DEX 
11 (+0)
CON 
16 (+3)
INT 
8 (-1)
WIS 
10 (+0)
CHA 
11 (+0)
Armour Class 14 (Corslet of Mail)
Hit Points 37 (5d8+15)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Survival +2
Senses passive Perception 10
Languages Westron
Challenge 1 (200 XP)
Berserk Rage. Whenever Vogar takes damage, he must 
make a Wisdom saving throw against DC 10 or half the 
damage, whichever is higher. On a failure he flies into 
a berserk rage. He gains Advantage on his attack rolls, 
Disadvantage on ability checks and saving throws and all 
attacks against him are at Advantage. At the start of his 
turn if there are no enemies within his movement, he must 
make another saving throw (with Disadvantage) to end 
this effect. On a failure, he attacks an ally within range.
Horrible Strength. If Vogar makes a successful melee 
attack, he may use his bonus action to cause 4 additional 
of the same type to the target.
Actions
Mattock. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 11 (2d6+4) slashing damage.
Surface Details: A burly Dwarf with a hideously scarred 
face.
First Impressions: He may be simple-minded; he slurs 
when he speaks, and often just stares at the ground 
instead of walking. If his brother were not there to take 
care of him, he might wander off the Road and perish in 
the Wild.
Close Associates: Vig.
Digging Deeper: A successful DC 15 Wisdom 
(Medicine) check reveals that Vogar suffered a terrible 
wound in battle that makes it hard for him to think clearly. 
He cannot remember what happened at the Forsaken Inn; 
eavesdropping characters hear him asking his nephews in 
low tones about that evening.
Secrets: At night, Vogar mutters and moans about 
murdering Mirabar. His brother always sleeps close by, 
and rouses instantly if Vogar tries to rise from his bedroll.
Narvig, Son of Vig
The elder son of Vig, Narvig feels his father’s shame very 
keenly. He would do anything to relieve Vig’s suffering 
and restore his pride.
Surface Details: Young, tall for a Dwarf.
First Impressions: Narvig is clearly the liaison between 
the Dwarves and the other travellers. He’s the only one 
who speaks to Edoric or Eoin.
Close Associates: Vig, Narvi, Edoric.
Digging Deeper: A companion who sneaks into the 
camp discovers that Narvig and Narvi connive privately

--- PAGE 97 ---
97
by night. If the companion eavesdrops on them, they will 
hear the pair plotting to steal valuables from Berelas.
Secrets: Narvig intends to give the stolen items to Mirabar, 
freeing his father Vig from the debt he owes.
Narvi the Young
The youngest of the Dwarves, Narvi is something of a 
scoundrel. He dreams of going to Erebor and becoming 
as wealthy as the kings of old, and is frustrated by his 
father’s debts and his uncle’s illness. Narvi always wants 
the quick fix, the easy answer.
Surface Details: Young, light on his feet.
First Impressions: The merriest, least dour Dwarf you 
ever laid eyes on.
Close Associates: Narvig, Hirlinon.
Digging Deeper: A successful DC 13 Wisdom (Insight) 
check will reveal that Narvi is trying to befriend Hirlinon. 
The Dwarf has a seemingly inexhaustible flask of some 
Dwarven spirits, and gets the Mountebank tipsy each 
evening. Also, Narvi is remarkably stealthy for a Dwarf; 
he can step as lightly as a cat when he wants to.
Secrets: Narvi’s the mastermind of the ‘plan’ to steal from 
Berelas. He’s getting Hirlinon drunk every night so the 
mountebank won’t be able to wake up when they attempt 
to steal the Ring of Seven Jewels from Berelas.
Narvig or Narvi
Medium Dwarf
STR 
16 (+3)
DEX 
17 (+3)
CON 
12 (+1)
INT 
10 (+0)
WIS 
10 (+0)
CHA 
13 (+1)
Armour Class 14 (Corslet of Mail)
Hit Points 22 (4d8+4)
Speed 25 ft
Skills Persuasion +3 (Narvig), Stealth +5 (Narvi)
Senses passive Perception 10
Languages Westron
Challenge 1/4 (50 XP)
Reckless. The young Dwarf may choose to gain 
Advantage on all attacks he makes in a round, but all 
attacks on him gain Advantage until the start of his next 
turn.
Actions
Broad Sword. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 7 (1d8+3) slashing damage.
Hirlinon of Gondor, Follower of Gorlanc
Hirlinon comes from the land of Gondor, far to the South. 
He is one of Gorlanc’s followers, a secret worshipper of 
the Enemy. He has seen the power of Mordor; he knows 
the gathering strength of the Enemy, and he knows that 
the Free Peoples cannot hope to stand against it. He has 
succumbed to despair, and come out the other side filled 
with malice and secret loathing for the common folk.
 He now delights in tricking people out of their money and 
causing suffering, because what else is there to do? The 
Enemy will soon rule all of Middle-earth, so why should 
Hirlinon not have some merriment at the expense of 
others before the day is done?
Game Rules: Hirlinon is a Mountebank, see page 51 for 
his statistics.
Surface Details: Bright clothes, ready smile. The soft 
hands of a scholar.
First Impressions: He seems to be something of a 
merchant or carnival-barker. His pony is laden down 
with boxes of medicines, cure-alls, potions, fireworks and 
other wonders. Hirlinon claims to be Berelas’ brother, but 
the two look nothing alike.
Strange Men, Strange Roads

--- PAGE 98 ---
Bree-land Region Guide
98
Close Associates: Berelas, Edoric, Narvi.
Digging Deeper: A companion who sneaks into the 
camp can find an amulet identical to the one found 
on Mallor’s body amongst Hirlinon’s belongings (see 
page 91). Hirlinon keeps a very close watch on Berelas, 
following her like a shadow.
Secrets: Like Berelas, Hirlinon is a follower of Gorlanc. 
He’s much more devoted to Gorlanc than she is, and his 
role is to remind her of her oaths to the sorcerer — and to 
make sure that the Ring gets to Gorlanc, no matter what.
Berelas, the Ringbearer
Berelas is older than she looks. She was one of the 
Woodmen captives taken into Dol Guldur, and there 
she learned terrible secrets of the Enemy. Released, she 
fell into the service of a lesser evil, Gorlanc the Sorcerer. 
Despite all these horrors, she has not entirely fallen to the 
Shadow, and is still capable of mercy and even kindness. 
She serves Gorlanc because she fears the Enemy, and 
believes that only a strong hero can hope to stand against 
Sauron when he returns. She sees Gorlanc like a younger, 
more forceful Radagast, and hopes that if she brings him 
the Ring and helps him grow in power, he will be able to 
drive away the Shadow.
Berelas is deluding herself in this – Gorlanc is a servant 
of Sauron, or at best a rival like Saruman the White, not a 
hero – but she has no other hope to cling to. 
Berelas
Medium Human
STR 
13 (+1)
DEX 
20 (+5)
CON 
14 (+2)
INT 
12 (+1)
WIS 
11 (+0)
CHA 
15 (+2)
Armour Class 17 (Leather Corslet)
Hit Points 58 (9d8+18)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Performance +4, Shadow-lore +3
Senses passive Perception 10
Languages Westron
Challenge 2 (450 XP)
Cold be Hand and Heart. If Berelas has just successfully 
made a melee attack, she can use her bonus action to 
channel some of the Cold Shade’s power. The target takes 
1d8 necrotic damage and can’t regain hit points until the 
start of her next turn.
Shade-caller. As a bonus action, Berelas can summon 
the Cold Shade. It arrives at the end of her next turn.
Actions
Dagger. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 7 (1d4+5) piercing damage.
Great Bow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, range 
150/600 ft, one target. Hit: 9 (1d8+5) piercing damage.
Surface Details: A woman from Mirkwood, dressed in 
simple travelling clothes and a heavy green cloak. She 
wears a scarf, even in summer.
First Impressions: She seems to be Hirlinon’s assistant. 
Sometimes, she wanders into the woods alone or with 
Eoin to search for herbs.
Close Associates: Hirlinon, Edoric, Eoin.
Digging Deeper: A successful DC 13 Wisdom (Insight) 
check reveals that Berelas and Edoric seem to have some 
sort of a bond – or an understanding. Certainly, she 
spends a lot of time talking to the caravan captain, and he 
smiles when she sings.
She’s a talented healer, much more so than Hirlinon. 
Anything of actual potency that he sells from his wagon of 
cure-alls was made by her.
Secrets: Berelas carries a Wondrous Artefact, the Ring of 
Seven Jewels, on a chain around her neck. She won’t wear

--- PAGE 99 ---
99
the Ring herself, but if she or the Ring are threatened, she 
calls a Shade from Gorlanc (see The Cold Shade, page 101).
If the caravan is attacked by night, or if Berelas or Hirlinon 
are ambushed, then the Cold Shade automatically 
appears to protect them. During the day, the Shade is 
less powerful and less supernaturally aware of danger, 
so Berelas must consciously summon the creature.
She might also summon the Shade if she suspects the 
caravan is being spied upon, and send it out to hunt for 
nearby Player-heroes.
Mirabar of Dorwinion
Mirabar is a merchant from the Land of Vineyards; he 
brings cloth from the East and trades it for gems and 
crafted items from the Blue Mountains. Most of the 
baggage ponies in the caravan belong to him, and he’s 
the one who hired Edoric. Some years ago, he loaned 
a large sum of money to the dwarf-smith Vig, and he 
wants that debt repaid. When Vig protested that he didn’t 
have the coin to repay Mirabar, the merchant decided to 
accompany the caravan himself (he normally dwells in 
the Vales of Anduin, across the mountains).
Surface Details: An old man, with a face like an aged 
crow, all beak and dark wary eyes. He’s bundled in furs 
despite the warm weather; he has many rings of gold on 
his old fingers. He’s the only member of the caravan to 
ride instead of walking. 
First Impressions: If he makes it as far as Bree, it’ll be 
something of a miracle. He seems half-dead from the 
journey.
Close Associates: No one. Edoric and Eoin obey his 
commands, but he doesn’t welcome their company. He 
tolerates Berelas, glares at Hirlinon, and has little time for 
the Dwarves, who seem subdued in his presence.
Digging Deeper: Mirabar keeps a ledger of accounts 
with him, and there’s a column of red ink with Vig’s name 
on it. The Player-heroes could learn this by sneaking into 
the camp and reading the journal, or by eavesdropping 
on Mirabar when he makes snide comments about Vig’s 
indebtedness.
He hates the Rangers, believing them to be nothing more 
than bandits. He blames them for the loss of several of his 
trade caravans en route to the Blue Mountains (in truth, 
the Dúnedain have saved far more of Mirabar’s caravans 
from meeting grisly ends, but there’s no reasoning with 
such prejudice).
Secrets: Mirabar believes he nearly died at the Forsaken 
Inn. He’s sure that he glimpsed Death come to claim him 
and carry him away beyond the circles of the world. What 
he actually saw was the Shade sent by Gorlanc, the one that 
killed Mallor, but Mirabar’s convinced that he’s going to 
die on his journey. He’s debating whether to forgive Vig his 
debt as a last kindness, or write up a letter to his business 
partners transferring the lien on the loan to them.
Confronting the Caravan
If the Player-heroes decide to confront the caravan directly 
before it reaches Bree, treat it as an audience. Edoric does 
most of the talking for the caravan, although he looks to 
Mirabar for guidance at times.
Motivations
Edoric has little patience for accusations and interruptions. 
He wants to get the caravan to Bree and then their 
problems won’t be his anymore.
Expectations
The following response may be appropriate during the 
course of the audience:
• 
Mirabar: “Rangers and Brigands are not to be 
trusted” -2 modifier if the Company identifies the 
victim as a Dúnadan and a -1 modifier if there are 
Rangers among them.
2
Strange Men, Strange Roads

--- PAGE 100 ---
Bree-land Region Guide
100
• 
Edoric: “The word of a stranger is an uncertain thing” 
-1 if the Company make unfounded accusations 
or demand immediate action; “The Reeve of Bree is 
the Law-giver here” +2 if the companions produce 
evidence and agree to present it to the Reeve.
Introduction
Barging onto the Road and declaring that one of the 
caravan murdered a Ranger at the Forsaken Inn and 
the Company is here to bring a reckoning in the name 
of justice is not a typical introductory approach. If the 
companions try something like this, it requires a DC 20 
Charisma (Intimidation or Persuasion) check instead.
If they try a more diplomatic approach (perhaps asking 
to speak privately with Edoric, Mirabar or someone else) 
then they can make a DC 15 Intelligence (Traditions) 
as normal.
Interaction
Firstly, Edoric wants reassurance that the companions are 
not bandits planning to rob his caravan. Failing to provide 
proof of the Player-heroes’ good intentions brings an early 
end to the audience, without a chance for them to fulfill 
any positive expectations.
Heroes that are indelicate with the matter will likely trigger 
several negative expectations, as above. The best approach 
is to present evidence that one of the caravan members was 
involved in Mallor’s death, and letting Edoric come to the 
conclusion that the matter deserves investigation. 
Final Audience Check
Edoric’s preference is to wait until Bree before coming to 
any conclusions. He’s wary of any suggestions that justice 
be carried out on the Road. Once the heroes have said 
their piece, they can make a final check. If they’ve been 
courteous then it’s a normal check, but if they’ve only 
hinted at the crime it’s a DC 20 Intelligence (Riddle) 
check. If they’ve tried to cow Edoric into allowing them to 
pass sentence on one of his charges, that requires a DC 20 
Charisma (Intimidation) check.
Evaluate the result compared to the following entries:
Failure. The Company are brigands! To arms! It’s a 
pitched battle between the members of the caravan and the 
Player-heroes. Remember, most of the caravan-travellers 
are mostly innocent, and killing them is a terrible Misdeed 
worthy of Shadow.
Success by 0-2. Edoric agrees that the matter warrants 
investigation, and suggests that the caravan meet the 
Company in Bree. The caravan shall be there in a few 
days; the Company, being less encumbered, may travel 
faster (in other words, he doesn’t want the companions 
travelling with the caravan). The Reeve of Bree is as close 
as this part of the world comes to a leader of Men — let the 
strangers present their concerns to the Reeve, and let him 
deal with it.
Success by 3-5. As above, but Edoric agrees to let the 
Player-heroes accompany the caravan as far as Bree.
Success by 6+. Edoric is convinced that the matter 
deserves immediate investigation, and stands aside. Only 
the close associates of the suspect will fight back if the 
Player-heroes press the matter. (For example, if the players 
accuse one of the Dwarves, then all the Dwarves will band 
together to protect their relative. If they accuse Eoin, the 
lad is on his own.)
The Cold Shade
This creature might be an undead spirit, or it could be the 
malign expression of Gorlanc’s will – or perhaps both? 
Maybe the sorcerer called a wraith out of some ancient 
tomb in the north, and now uses it like a mask to project 
his mind across the leagues. 
Whatever the Cold Shade’s nature, its purpose is to defend 
the Ring that Gorlanc craves. The Player-heroes encounter 
the Shade if:
• 
Berelas or Hirlinon are attacked at night.
• 
Berelas feels threatened by day and summons the 
Shade.
• 
Berelas calls the Shade to hunt for spies and 
eavesdroppers.
The Cold Shade appears as swiftly as the wind blows if 
the Ring-bearer is threatened by night. During the day, 
the Shade prefers to hide from the light of the sun and 
easily goes astray, so it takes longer to arrive and must 
be consciously summoned by Berelas or Hirlinon by

--- PAGE 101 ---
101
speaking Gorlanc’s name coupled with an invocation in 
the Black Speech of Mordor.
The Cold Shade resembles a cloud of icy mist, as though 
someone had exhaled heavily on a cold night. When the 
moonlight catches it at certain angles, a face and the 
suggestion of a Man-like form can be seen in the swirling 
tendrils of mist.
The Shade brings a bitter chill with it, as if it somehow 
carries darkest midwinter wherever it goes. Ideally, run 
Part Four – Strangers in the Woods during or just after a 
Cold Shade attack. 
If Berelas is the subject of the attack then she defends 
herself while the Shade fights. If Hirlinon is the target, 
he’ll let the spirit fight on his behalf, only risking his neck 
if it seems like the heroes will capture Berelas or the Ring. 
If the heroes engage in battle against all three, they may 
find themselves outmatched. It may be time for an unlikely 
stroke of good fortune — see Strangers in the Woods, 
overleaf. Hirlinon will use the Elves’ arrival to disappear 
along with Berelas.
The Cold Shade
Medium Undead
STR 
10 (+0)
DEX 
17 (+3)
CON 
15 (+2)
INT 
11 (+0)
WIS 
10 (+0)
CHA 
12 (+1)
Armour Class 13
Hit Points 65 (10d8+20)
Speed 0 ft, fly 50 ft (hover)
Damage Resistances Acid, fire, lightning, thunder; 
non-magical bludgeoning, piercing and slashing
Damage Immunities cold, necrotic, poison
Condition Immunities Charmed, Exhaustion, 
Frightened, Grappled, Paralysed, Petrified, Poisoned, 
Prone, Restrained
Senses blindsight 30 ft, passive Perception 10
Languages —
Challenge 3 (700 XP)
Fear of Fire. The Cold Shade is repulsed by the heat of 
fire. If a torch or other flame comes within 10 feet of it, it 
suffers Disadvantage on its attack rolls.
Ghost-form. The Cold Shade is insubstantial and cannot 
be easily hurt by normal means. See the damage and 
condition resistances and immunities above.
Incorporeal Movement. The Cold Shade can move 
through other creatures and objects as if they were 
difficult terrain. It takes 5 (1d10) force damage if it ends 
its turn inside an object.
Thing of Terror (1/day, at night only). The Cold Shade 
can use its bonus action to bring a cold chill to the heart 
of any hero. Any companion within 60 feet must make 
a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or be Frightened of the 
ghost. At the end of the creature’s turn it may repeat the 
saving throw, ending the effect on a success.
Actions
Icy Touch. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 
ft, one target. Hit: 10 (2d6+3) necrotic damage and the 
target must make a DC 13 Constitution saving throw 
or become Paralysed by the cold. A target can repeat the 
save at the end of its turn to end the effect.
Wild Beasts
This is an optional scene that can be inserted instead of, 
or some night after, meeting the Elves (see overleaf).
The presence of the Ring of Seven Jewels does not pass 
unnoticed to the eyes of the servants of the Enemy. 
Normally, wolves stay far away from Bree, but tonight the 
curse laid upon the treasure stolen from the Elves draws 
them in. The wolf pack is a large one, led by a white beast 
Strange Men, Strange Roads

--- PAGE 102 ---
Bree-land Region Guide
102
that must have come down from the frozen wastes of the 
far North.
The whole caravan is in grave danger. More importantly, 
if any Player-heroes are sneaking about this night, they’re 
at risk of being discovered.
Hiding from the Wolves
Staying hidden from the Wolves requires a group DC 14 
Dexterity (Stealth) check. If near the Chetwood, the best 
thing to do is climb a tree; otherwise, the characters must 
hide amid the underbrush and hope the wolves pass by.
Battling the Wolves
There is one Wild Wolf (page 111 of the Loremaster’s 
Guide) for every companion, plus more attacking the 
caravan, plus the White Wolf of the North (page 48).
The Caravan and the Wolves
If the wolves make it past the Company, then Edoric 
efficiently rallies his defences. Eoin, Edoric and all the 
Dwarves except Vogar form a defensive line, hewing at the 
wolves or trying to drive them away with fire. Mirabar, 
Hirlindon, Berelas and Vogar hide behind this line, trying 
to keep the pack animals calm. At one point, a wolf leaps 
past the defensive line and lands in the middle of the 
caravan, snarling and biting. There’s a sudden shriek, and 
a cloud of mist (the Cold Shade) flashes past. The Wolf 
falls over, stone dead, but the ponies are spooked and try 
to scatter. By the time the remaining wolves are driven 
away and the pack animals gathered back together, no 
one recalls the strange blast of icy air that shot through 
the camp (and Hirlinon is careful to plant a dagger in the 
wolf’s flank to explain the creature’s death).
- Part Four -
Strangers in the Woods
In this part of the adventure, the Player-heroes meet a 
Wandering Company of the Elves in the Chetwood near 
Bree. There are two ways to introduce this scene. The most 
dramatic and thematic way is to have the Elves show up to 
drive away the fell presence of the Cold Shade. The High 
Elves have great spiritual power, and a company of them 
blazes in the wraith-world like a forest fire or the rising sun.
The Cold Shade hisses and melts away like mist before the 
dawn. “What was that?” asks the leader of the Elves. “It 
fled before our presence, and the name of Elbereth. Were 
you foolish enough to call up some evil spirit?”
If you can’t engineer such a dramatic entrance, then the 
Elves might encounter the Company as they spy on the 
trade caravan. The Elves, being wood-wise and stealthy, 
are amused by their attempts at eavesdropping.

--- PAGE 103 ---
103
The Elves might even play tricks on the Company, like 
dropping apples on their heads or whispering in their ears 
as they lie hidden. Once they tire of such mockery, the 
Elves reveal themselves and greet the companions.
The leader of the Elves is Cenedriliel.
An Audience with the Elves
Run this scene as an extended audience. Once the Elves 
tire of talking with the Company, they vanish. If the 
companions have managed to impress the Elves, they 
leave gifts for the Company to discover in the morning.
Motivations and Expectations
As Cenedriliel and most of her companions are departing 
into the Uttermost West, their goals are enigmatic at best 
to Mortal minds. But they still take delight in the joy of 
simple folk (add a +2 modifier if there are any Hobbits in 
the Company) and heed those who have chosen to guard 
Eriador against the enemy (apply a +1 modifier if there 
are any Dúnedain or High Elves among the heroes).
Introduction
Cenedriliel introduces herself and her fellow High 
Elves, explaining that she and most of her company are 
travelling West, towards the Havens, and intend to depart 
Middle-earth. Some of their number, though, are Elves of 
the Grey Havens, who came to Rivendell to guide them 
across Eriador.
The companions can either attempt the standard DC 15 
Intelligence (Traditions) check or make a Performance 
or musical instrument check against the same DC with 
Advantage if they choose to greet the Elves with song. Any 
other skills automatically fail.
Assuming the Company do not fail this first hurdle, 
Cenedriliel leads them a little deeper into the Chetwood, 
to a clearing where there are a number of white cloths 
laden with food spread out on the ground. Lamps hanging 
from the trees burn brightly but don’t seem to illuminate 
the glade.
The characters have the strange impression that the light 
is coming from the stars overhead, as if the stars burn 
brighter here. The companions are invited to join the feast. 
Interaction
Possible topics of conversation are given below; the Elves 
stop talking to the companions in favour of singing and 
merriment when the conversation bores them.
• 
The Death of the Ranger: “We knew Mallor, although 
he rarely joined in our merriment. His heart was true, 
and it grieves us to hear that he has died. It would be 
a worthy deed to bring justice to his murderers – but 
Mallor would have been the first to remind you that 
justice is a fleeting shadow, and there is more woe 
and weeping in Middle-earth than there are triumphs. 
Long have we contended against the Enemy, and all 
too often in vain. We feast tonight, then, because we 
are here and it is summer in the Chetwood, and for 
no more glorious reason. Perhaps your quest will be 
successful, and if it is, we shall rejoice. But Mallor 
is still dead. Remember, mortality is the gift of Men; 
his passing may be part of a greater design, one not 
intended by the murderer.”
• 
Helping find the Killer: “This is your task, not ours. 
We are travelling, travelling West and West again, and 
shall not tarry here. Look for us again when you need 
us, not when you desire an easier road.”
• 
The Caravan: “There is a treasure there, a power that 
is familiar to some in my company. We knew it came 
out of Eregion some time ago. But it is a trap, a snare 
that would hold us here, tying us to a past we gave up 
long ago. I can speak no more of it, save this: malice 
takes many forms, and some are better hidden than 
others.”
• 
The Cold Shade: “I have bent my thought upon the 
creature, and it shall not trouble you again this night. 
It dwells far away, but came when it was called. There 
was a living will behind it, friend, as shadowed a soul 
as can be imagined.”
The Final Audience Check
As the conversation winds down, make an final Traditions 
check as normal to see what the wandering High Elves 
think of the Company:
Failure. The feast ends abruptly; the Elf-lights suddenly 
snuff out and the Player-heroes fall instantly asleep. The 
3
Strange Men, Strange Roads

--- PAGE 104 ---
Bree-land Region Guide
104
next day, the Company will have to hurry to catch up with 
the caravan.
Success by 0-2. The next morning, the companions find 
the left-over food from the feast all wrapped up and waiting 
for them; this meal either reduces Exhaustion by one level 
or removes a point of temporary Shadow (companion’s 
choice).
Success by 3-5. The Company sleeps soundly under the 
watchful eyes of the Elves and are able to benefit from 
a long rest. Additionally, one of the companions has a 
prophetic dream, giving a clue about some member of the 
caravan, or about Gorlanc.
Success by 6+. As above, but Cenedriliel stays up all night 
talking with the companion with the highest Wisdom (use 
Intelligence as a tie-breaker), and reveals that someone 
in the caravan is carrying a lesser Ring of Power, and 
that Cenedriliel suspects that the Cold Shade is somehow 
guarding or watching over this ring.
- Part Five -
Not to Strike Without Need
A day out from Bree, the caravan comes upon a small by-
road leading to Combe. A young girl named Daisy flags 
the caravan down as they pass, and begs for Hirlinon’s 
help. Her mother Violet is sick, she says, and she begs the 
healer to come quick to help her. She lives in a cottage not 
far down the side road.
A debate ensues. Mirabar (and, hence, Edoric) wants to 
continue on to Bree immediately. Hirlinon tries to sell 
the girl a cure-all, but Berelas insists that they should go 
to the cottage and examine the girl’s mother in person 
(Berelas is a better healer than Hirlinon, but maintains 
the fiction that he’s the brilliant apothecary and she’s just 
an assistant).
The Dwarves don’t care, until it becomes clear that Berelas 
and Hirlinon are going to the cottage, whereupon Narvi 
and Narvig volunteer to ‘escort’ the healer (to ensure they 
don’t let her gold ring out of their sight). Vig objects at 
that, as he can’t mind Vogar on his own.
In the end (assuming the companions don’t intervene), the 
agreed plan is that Berelas, Hirlinon, Eoin and Narvi will 
take the side road to Combe, while the rest of the caravan
waits for them at the fork in the road.
A Caravan Divided
The split in the caravan offers an excellent opportunity for 
the Company to spy on or question Loremaster characters. 
It’s especially easy to question Eoin, as he’s off his guard
now that the caravan is back in the familiar lands around 
Bree-hill.
The Cottage
Violet Rushlight lives with her two daughters in a cottage 
on the road to Combe; they farm chickens and cows, and 
weave cloth. Ever-industrious are the Rushlights. The 
cottage is a large one, built by the late Mr Rushlight (dead 
four years ago; if the players played through Old Bones 
and Skin, then they likely saved his burial mound from 
being despoiled by the Old Troll), and there’s a handsome 
window facing out to the south. The companions can 
easily spy on events inside the house through this window. 
Now, Violet Rushlight has come down with a fever, and 
her younger daughter Rose is also growing ill as she tends 
to her mother.
Healing the Rushlights
If the companions get involved, then anyone with 
proficient in Medicine (or having an appropriate trait, like 
Leechcraft) recognises that Violet and Rose are dying and 
are unlikely to recover without aid.
The intercession of someone with great healing powers 
is needed (a Master Healer, a Woodman with Herbal 
Remedies, an Elf of Rivendell with Skill of the Eldar, or a 
suitable trait plus a DC 20 Wisdom (Medicine) check). 
If a player character can heal the Rushlights, then Berelas 
may be spared using the Ring of Seven Jewels.
Using the Ring
Berelas comes to the same conclusion about the prospects 
of the patients: their illness is beyond any ordinary skill 
to heal. While Hirlinon tries to sell potions and herbal 
remedies to the dying women, Berelas examines her 
patients – and then realises that the only way to save them 
is to use the power of the Ring of Seven Jewels.
1
3
1

--- PAGE 105 ---
105
She orders the fires lit and stoked, even though it is the 
height of summer. She has blankets placed on the bed, 
because she knows that putting on the Ring will attract 
the attention of Gorlanc’s Cold Shade. She then orders 
everyone, including young Daisy, to return to the caravan. 
Eoin, however, circles back to keep an eye on his “beloved” 
Berelas. The Player-heroes may also be in a position to 
observe what happens next.
Berelas puts on the Ring of Seven Jewels and uses its 
power to heal the sick. As soon as she puts on the Ring, 
she draws Gorlanc’s attention; the Cold Shade flies as fast 
as the wind, howling down from the empty lands north of 
the Shire to investigate. It rushes into the cottage through 
the chimney, freezing the fire in the hearth in an instant. 
It whirls around Berelas, looking for signs of danger, then 
races out of the cottage again and circles around.
If the companions are nearby, it attacks them; otherwise, 
it spots Eoin and decides that he must be a threat – why 
else would Berelas have touched the Ring? The Shade 
does not kill him, but terrifies him half to death; he’s left 
shivering and whimpering in the undergrowth.
Inside the cottage, Berelas attends to Daisy and Violet; 
their sickness is gone, but they are half-frozen to death from 
the presence of the Cold Shade. Berelas hastily relights the 
fire and warms them with blankets until they revive. Both 
mutter and moan about “seven shining jewels”. (If a hero 
overhears that, a successful DC 17 Intelligence (History 
or Lore) check might dig up a memory of the Ring of Seven 
Jewels.)
To Bree!
Mirabar refuses to squander any more time on this affair; 
he orders Edoric to move on to Bree as soon as Berelas 
and Narvi are back. “The moon-calf can catch up,” he 
says, “we’re only a short walk to the Cross-Roads.” They 
leave without Eoin, assuming that he’s wandered off to 
greet friends or family now that he’s back in Bree-land. 
Once the caravan arrives in Bree, run Knives in Bree or 
The Matter Before the Reeve depending on the current 
situation.
Forcing a Confrontation
If the Player-heroes ambush Berelas or confront 
the caravan at this point (perhaps prompted by the 
unnatural events witnessed at the cottage), then 
Edoric insists that since they are less than a day’s 
travel from Bree, they all continue onto the town 
and let the Reeve there resolve any accusations of 
witchcraft or murder.
- Part Six -
Knives in Bree
This part of the adventure assumes that the Player-heroes 
have not accused Berelas of Mallor’s murder.
The caravan stops at The Prancing Pony for the night. In 
fact, declares Mirabar, they’re going to stay here for two 
or three nights. Even the old man’s greed and impatience 
cannot overcome the ache in his frail old bones, and 
he needs to rest. If Eoin’s still missing, then The Pony’s 
potboys help unload the caravan instead.
Hirlinon and Berelas share a room; Edoric and Mirabar a 
second; and the Dwarves take a third.
Whispers in the Commons
Hirlinon meets with other agents of Gorlanc in the 
common-room of the inn. If you played through Old 
Bones and Skin, and by some astounding confluence 
of unlikely circumstances, the Dwarf Grór isn’t lying 
dead somewhere in the Midgewater Marshes, then use 
Strange Men, Strange Roads

--- PAGE 106 ---
Bree-land Region Guide
106
him. Otherwise, it’s an ill-favoured vagabond who the 
companions vaguely recall sitting near Grór when they 
last saw the Dwarf.
If the Company eavesdrops on this conversation, they 
hear Hirlinon promising his companion that he and 
Berelas will be on their way to “the fort” first thing in the 
morning, and that while there have been a few problems 
on the Road, the treasure is still kept secret and safe.
Afterwards, Narvi comes over and tells Hirlinon that 
behind the bar is a bottle of the same Dwarven spirits that 
they shared on the road. Hirlinon proceeds to get quite 
drunk.
The Dwarves
The arrival of Dwarven traders attracts the attention of the 
worthies of Bree; before the Dwarves can even have a sip 
of beer, they’re busy selling ironmongery and arranging to 
repair farmtools and other metalwork the next day.
Hirlinon, seeing an opportunity, starts hawking his 
curealls, declaiming loudly that he rescued the Rushlights 
of Combe from the brink of death with his herbal remedies.
 
In the common-room, Mirabar demands that Vig hand 
over all the money the Dwarves earned that afternoon 
as part-payment of the family debt. Grudgingly, Vig gives 
him what he earned; the Dwarves nurse a single half-pint 
each and eat nothing but bread and cheese, because that 
is all they can afford.
That humiliation is the last the Dwarves can bear. That 
night, Narvi and Narvig plan to break into Berelas’ room 
and steal her jewelled ring. They intend to sell it to their 
kin in the Blue Mountains, and use the money to pay 
Mirabar back in full.
If the Player-Heroes…
…have rooms at the inn, then they overhear the 
Dwarves moving around at night, or spot them leaving 
the common-room.
…are watching Berelas or the Dwarves, then they can 
spot the Dwarves sneaking into Berelas’ room.
…are near The Pony, then they can get involved in the 
altercation when Berelas and Hirlinon try to flee.
... are nowhere nearby, then their involvement in the 
final scenes of this adventure may hang on Virtues like 
Foresight of their Kindred, Night-Goer or Woeful Foresight 
to give the players forewarning of what is about to happen.
Uproar in Bree
Should the players not intercede, this is what happens: 
Narvi and Narvig sneak into Berelas’ room. Hirlinon 
snores in one bed, drunk on Dwarven spirits. Berelas lies 
sleeping in the other. It’s a warm summer’s night. On the 
nightstand by the bed, the Ring of Seven Jewels gleams 
invitingly in the moonlight. Narvig guards the door while 
Narvi creeps closer and closer. He’s got a dagger in one 
hand, just in case, but surely he’s light fingered enough to
grab the Ring without anyone noticing…
As soon as the Dwarf touches the Ring, it calls the Cold 
Shade. The Shade comes shrieking over the walls and 
rooftops of the town, bursting in the open window seconds 
after it left Gorlanc’s fort. It strikes Narvi down where he 
stands, and wakes Hirlinon and Berelas.
The two attempt to flee while Narvig grapples with the 
Shade. His shouts of alarm wake his uncle Vogar, who 
comes crashing down the hallway, a berserker in a 
nightshirt, waving his mattock and shouting about Orcs 
and Dragons.
If the companions fail to intercede, then the adventure 
ends here. Hirlinon and Berelas scramble down over 
the stable roof, steal horses, and ride out of Bree like the 
wind. The gatekeeper of the North-gate is struck down by 
Hirlinon, and the pair vanish up the Greenway, never to 
be seen again in Bree. Everyone in the inn is distracted by
Vogar’s deranged rampage.
However, if the Player-heroes are present, they have a 
chance to capture Berelas alive. Unlike Hirlinon, the 
healer’s loyalty to Gorlanc is wavering; she won’t kill 
unless her own life is threatened.
If the players haven’t followed the clues, then a last-
minute DC 13 Wisdom (Insight) check might avert 
catastrophe. The companions still need to drive the Cold 
3

--- PAGE 107 ---
107
Shade away in order to capture Berelas; she’ll advise them 
to use torches and fire to dismay the Shade.
The Wardens of Bree finally arrive only after Berelas is in 
custody, and insist that she must be brought before the 
Reeve for judgement.
Hirlinon won’t be taken alive; he’ll either fight to the death 
or escape. He counts as Poisoned due to his intoxicated 
state. Against a group of combat-focused heroes, perhaps 
the Dwarven spirits have worn off already. If captured, he 
will swallow the contents of a small vial he keeps secreted 
on himself and dies within a minute.
- Part Seven -
Before the Reeve
There are two possible ways to enter this scene. One 
possibility is that the players accused some member of 
Edoric’s caravan on the Road, and Edoric agreed to put 
the case before the Reeve. The other option is that the 
companions captured Berelas after the events of Part Six 
– Knives in the Dark, and have now brought her before the 
Reeve for justice.
The Reeve is Bree’s mayor, magistrate and lawmaker; in 
days when there was a king, he was the king’s man and 
If questioned, Berelas describes how she fell under the 
influence of Gorlanc and obtained the Ring of Seven 
Jewels. She met the sorcerer after she escaped the dungeons 
of Dol Guldur; he began by questioning her about her 
experiences in the Necromancer’s fortress, and over time 
she became convinced that he was as wise as Radagast, 
but much braver and more active – the Enemy’s enemy.
While travelling in the South, Gorlanc learned of a ring 
made by Elven-smiths of old. He searched for it for 
years, but other business drew him back to the North. 
He told Berelas that "cruel men and outlaws" drove him 
out of Eriador long ago, but that he intended to return 
to continue his investigations into the power of the fallen 
North-kingdom. In his absence, she was to continue the 
search for the Ring, and he taught her a spell that she 
should lay upon the artefact when she found it, "to free 
it from any curse", Gorlanc said.
After more years of searching, Berelas found the Ring 
of Seven Jewels, buried in a plot of earth that had once 
been a mass grave, and she cast the spell Gorlanc taught 
her as instructed. The action seemed to unburden her 
mind and allowed her to think clearly for the first time 
in many years - and she began to have doubts about her 
allegiance to Gorlanc. However, the spell also bound 
Gorlanc’s Cold Shade to the Ring, cursing it.
Some time later, Berelas joined Hirlinon – another 
one of Gorlanc’s men, and they came north to bring 
the Ring to the sorcerer. At the Forsaken Inn, someone 
eavesdropped on one of their conversations. Alarmed, 
Berelas caused the Cold Shade to intervene, and the evil 
spirit killed the Ranger Tarry-Mack.
Sympathetic roleplaying or, failing that, a well-timed 
DC 15 Charisma (Persuasion) check can convince Berelas 
that she was wrong to follow Gorlanc, and can atone by 
ensuring the sorcerer doesn’t get his hands on the Ring 
of Seven Jewels, which might further increase his power. 
Reminding her of her role in Eoin’s disappearance 
(assuming the boy was left behind in Part Five – Not to 
Strike Without Need) will be especially effective.
Further questions can elicit the following:
• 
Gorlanc has a fortress somewhere north of the Bree-
land, and a fair number of followers. She doesn’t 
know where the fort is, or how many men serve him. 
Hirlinon was to guide her to Gorlanc.
• 
If anyone else touches the Ring, the Cold Shade will 
attack. Only she can bear the Ring safely.
• 
She fears that she cannot stay in Bree, even if 
arrested. Sooner or later, Gorlanc will come for his 
prize. He may attack Bree, or send some plague or 
curse down upon the town if he does not get his Ring.
Berelas’ Confession
Strange Men, Strange Roads

--- PAGE 108 ---
Bree-land Region Guide
108
ruled in his name. Now, the Reeve is an elected position, 
advised by councillors from the four villages of Bree-land.
The current Reeve is old Twyc Greenleaf, a man in his 
seventy-fifth year with hair like snow and skin like cracked 
parchment. He spends most of his time in office napping in 
the Reeve’s House, while his young factotum Cole does all 
the day-to-day work. The one thing that gets Twyc’s blood 
flowing is sitting in judgement over an actual criminal ; he 
holds the peace of Bree to be a sacred thing, and punishes 
lawbreakers harshly. Most lawbreaking in Bree involves 
sheep-stealing or arguments over hedgerows; it’s been 
many, many years since Twyc sat in judgement over a 
potential murderer.
And even longer since there was a hanging at the 
Crossroads.
The Jail at Bree
Prisoners in the custody of the Reeve are held in a locked 
room in the Reeve’s house, and guarded by one of Bree’s 
Wardens (probably Tad Tillfield – see page 21). As Bree 
is under the protection of the Rangers, these Wardens 
usually have little to do other than deal with stray animals; 
actually guarding a prisoner is a novelty for them.
If Berelas is the prisoner, and she has not already admitted 
her guilt to the companions, run Berelas’ Confession now 
before the trial. If someone has been held to blame, she 
will be plagued by guilt and similarly confide in private to 
one or more heroes.
The Accused
If it is Berelas in the dock, then the adventure is almost 
over. The Reeve’s decision will determine what options 
are open to her in Part Eight – The Choices of Mistress 
Berelas.
If it is some other suspect in the dock, like one of the 
Dwarves, then the events of Part Six – Knives in Bree may 
yet come to pass. In that case, don’t run a second court 
case – go straight on to Part Eight. If the players insist on 
bringing a second case before the Reeve, summarise the 
events based on the outcome of the first trial. (For example, 
if the companions failed the Final Audience Check in the 
first trial, they’re not going to get a good outcome in the 
second.)
Meeting the Reeve
The court case with the Reeve is resolved as an Audience. 
Instead of a fixed set of outcomes, there are two possible 
situations – the adventurers may be arguing for guilt 
(“Berelas murdered Mallor, known in Bree as Tarry-Mack! 
We want justice for our comrade!”) or clemency (“Yes, 
technically Berelas killed Tarry-Mack, but really it was the 
ghost in her ring. And if you keep her imprisoned in Bree, 
then Gorlanc’s going to attack the town.”) If the Company 
fails the final check, then they get a bad outcome. If they 
argue their case convincingly, the Reeve’s decision goes 
their way.
Motivation and Expectations
Twyc is old, cranky and close-minded. But he is not so 
fond of justice that he wishes to punish the innocent. The 
following expectations are in place:
• 
“This is Bree, and Bree is nothing if not sensible.” Any 
talk of sorcery or the supernatural is simply dismissed 
as “Elf-nonsense” and earns a -2 modifier.
3

--- PAGE 109 ---
109
• 
“Ah, you I know — why, when your father was but a 
lad I took him fishing along the Brandywine…” If the 
speaker for the Company is a Hobbit of the Shire or 
from Bree they gain a +1 modifier.
Introduction
The companions must introduce themselves with a DC 
15 Intelligence (Traditions) check but they must also 
introduce the accused. If they stand for the prosecution, 
this is a DC 10 Charisma (Intimidation) check or if they 
are for the defence they must make a DC 10 Charisma 
(Persuasion) check instead. If either check fails, this 
counts as a failed introduction.
Interaction
The companions must either prove the suspect is guilty, 
or plead for clemency. The following skills might be used. 
The first time a skill check succeeds the Company gains 
a +1 modifier to the Final Audience Check. The second 
time they gain a +2 modifier and the third success signals 
it is time to make the Final Audience Check. Conversely 
the first failure gains a -1 modifier, the second failure a 
-2 modifier and on the third failure it is time to make the 
Final Audience Check.
The Difficulty for the first check is DC 11 and it increases 
by 2 for each additional roll. Each skill can be used once 
— it represents the hero’s best effort at convincing Twyc in 
that matter.
The available skills:
• 
History, to quote obscure aspects of Bree-law.
• 
Insight, to intuit that Twyc Greenleaf despises 
law-breakers and has no patiences for talk of the 
supernatural but fears for Bree’s safety.
• 
Intimidation, to demand the truth out of the accused 
or a witness. Here, in the Reeve’s House with life and 
death on the line, a success will reveal the secrets of the 
target (see pages 93-99). It might also be used on the 
judge directly, in order to convince Twyc that Gorlanc 
and his sorcerous minions are a threat beyond him 
and the Wardens of Bree.
• 
Investigation, to present physical evidence of the 
crime or insist that without such that the accused 
must be granted mercy.
• 
Medicine, to relate the suspicious nature of Tarry-
Mack’s death. The companions must be careful here, 
as going too far in their suppositions will trigger Twyc’s 
negative expectations of the unnatural.
• 
Persuasion, to make speeches before the judge.
• 
Riddle, to ask clever questions of the suspect.
• 
Traditions, to remind the judge about Bree’s 
reputation as a place of both law and order but also 
of fair justice.
Outcome
Once all arguments are concluded, make a Final Audience 
check and compare the result to the table below, using 
whichever column matches the Company’s argument.
Result
Arguing for 
Conviction
Arguing for 
Clemency
Failure
Prisoner is Freed 
Unconditionally
Condemned to 
Death
Success 
by 0-1
“Not Within My 
Purview”
Imprisoned 
Indefinitely
Success 
by 2-3
Custody of the 
Rangers
Custody of the 
Rangers
Success 
by 4-5
Imprisoned 
Indefinitely
“Not Within My 
Purview”
Success 
by 6+
Condemned to 
Death
Prisoner is Freed 
Unconditionally
Prisoner is Freed Unconditionally: Twyc dismisses the 
case. Either the adventurers have utterly failed to prove 
that the prisoner was involved in the death of the Ranger, 
or they have convinced Twyc that he should free Berelas 
immediately.
“Not within my purview”: Twyc washes his hands of the 
case. Maybe the prisoner is guilty, maybe not. It’s not a 
matter for Bree; what happens on the Road can stay on 
the Road. The prisoner is freed but banished from Bree; 
any companions other than Bree-folk or Shire-hobbits are 
likewise encouraged to leave.
Custody of the Rangers: Tarry-Mack was one of them 
Rangers; let them decide what’s to be done. Twyc decides 
to keep the prisoner in custody until a Ranger shows up 
in Bree. If there’s a Ranger in the Company, so much the 
Strange Men, Strange Roads

--- PAGE 110 ---
Bree-land Region Guide
110
better; Twyc releases the prisoner into the Ranger’s care, 
and suggests that both prisoner and Ranger leave Bree 
immediately. Otherwise, the Company must go fetch one 
of the Dúnadan if they want to get Berelas out of Bree’s 
jail.
Imprisoned Indefinitely: Twyc needs to consult with 
the councillors of Bree, and consult the books of law and 
precedent, and think about the matter deeply. There’ll be 
no decision before year’s end at the earliest. Until then, 
the prisoner will remain in Bree’s jail.
Condemned to Death: Not a living soul in Bree can 
remember the last time the ancient punishment was used; 
no doubt there were crimes committed in the dark days 
of the Fell Winter and other bad times, but they are long 
past. Still, there is a place near the Cross-roads where a 
gallows might be built, and cold steel enough in the mind 
of Twyc Greenleaf to order such a punishment.
Using the Ring of Seven Jewels
All of Twyc’s doubts about the supernatural can be 
dismissed in an instant if the heroes compel Berelas 
to call the Cold Shade. Of course, summoning up a 
murderous undead horror in the middle of Bree is the 
fastest way to get forever banished from the town 
short of burning down The Prancing Pony. Still, if 
the Company’s chief concern is the security of the 
North and not their standing in town, it is an option.
- Part Eight -
The Choices of Mistress Berelas
By this point in the adventure, Berelas should be in the 
custody of either the Reeve of Bree, or the Company. She 
has repented of her allegiance to Gorlanc, but needs to 
decide what to do with the Ring.
She looks to the companions for guidance: what should 
she do? If the Player-heroes are low-ranking adventurers 
from Bree, then all they can do is advise, for the final fate
of the Ring of Seven Jewels is out of their hands. However, 
if the companions are more experienced adventurers or 
Dúnedain, then they can aid Berelas in finding her destiny.
What is to be done with the Ring of Seven Jewels?
• 
Surrender the Ring of Seven Jewels: Gorlanc’s 
spell ensures that if anyone other than Berelas 
touches the Ring of Seven Jewels, the Cold Shade will 
be summoned. Only Berelas’ death can break this 
spell, and allow someone else to safely bear the Ring. 
If the Company feels that her murder of Tarry-Mack 
warrants death, she will yield to their judgement.
• 
Hide the Ring: If the Ring goes untouched, the 
Cold Shade won’t be able to find it. It took Gorlanc 
many, many years to find the Ring of Seven Jewels in 
the first place; if the Company helps Berelas hide it 
with sufficient cunning, he might not be able to find 
it again before he dies of old age. (For double irony, 
the adventurers could hide the treasure in the Black 
Barrow – see page 82.)
• 
Destroy the Ring of Seven Jewels: The Great Rings 
of Power are hard to destroy, save by Dragon-fire or 
the fires of the Cracks of Doom, but lesser rings can 
be unmade. A hero or ally capable of Elven-smithing 
is best (they have Advantage on the following checks) 
but even a mortal can make an effort. The smith must 
make a series of DC 20 Strength (smith’s tools) 
checks, accruing a total of 7 successes. As soon as the 
Ring is cast into the flames of the forge, the Cold Shade 
appears to defend the treasure. The other heroes must 
protect their companion as the smith destroys the 
masterwork.
• 
Flee into the Wild: Berelas came from Mirkwood 
originally; if she runs, and never stops running, then 
maybe she can stay ahead of Gorlanc’s minions long 
enough to stop the sorcerer from ever getting the Ring 
he so desires.
• 
Flee to Rivendell: If the companions know about the 
hidden valley of Imladris, they could bring Berelas 
there and seek the protection of Master Elrond.
• 
Go to the Elves: If the companions are on good terms 
with Cenedriliel and her Elves, they could seek them

--- PAGE 111 ---
111
out and ask them for help. She herself can serve as 
smith if need be, and her escort certainly knows the 
way to Rivendell.
The Rest of the Caravan
Depending on the players’ actions, the rest of the 
caravan may be dead, bitterly hateful of one another, or 
even redeemed and won over as allies. Here’s how the 
Company might solve problems with the other Loremaster 
characters:
Edoric
Protecting the caravan members, especially Eoin and 
Mirabar, is all it takes to convince Edoric that the Company 
are worthy allies.
Eoin
Saving Eoin’s life in Part Five – Not to Strike Without Need 
wins him over; doubly so if he can help Berelas escape her 
fate.
The Dwarves
Not killing Narvi and Narvig is a good start. The characters 
will be Dwarf-friends for life if they help Vig pay off his 
debt to Mirabar.
Gorlanc’s Last Stroke
Gorlanc will not leave his Ring slip through his fingers so 
easily. He sends a few of his best and swiftest warriors 
to reclaim the Ring now that Berelas has betrayed him. 
Hirlinon joins this troupe of killers if he is still alive.
The band travels to Bree (or to the last place where Gorlanc 
knows Berelas was) with orders to abduct Berelas and 
recover the Ring of Seven Jewels. If Berelas is on the Road 
with the Player-heroes, they’ll try to take her by force. If 
she’s in the Reeve’s jail in Bree, then they’ll break into the 
jail and grab her in the dead of night – they are not above 
slitting the throat of a Warden to do so.
There is one of Gorlanc’s warriors (Brigands, see page 50) 
for every companion (plus Hirlinon, if he’s still alive). At 
night, the Cold Shade (if it was not destroyed) joins the 
battle once a Brigand falls.
If it’s dramatically fitting (and the combat is going poorly 
for the heroes), have Vig, Vogar and the two younger 
Dwarves, or Edoric and Eoin, join the fray if the Company 
are ambushed on the Road or attacked in Bree.
- Epilogue -
The Assault on Gorlanc’s Fort
Gorlanc believes he can claim all the secrets and treasures 
of Eriador. He thinks that the Dúnedain are nothing but 
outlaws and wanderers, stumbling blindly through the 
ruins of their former kingdoms. He believes that the 
North is empty of any who might stand against him, that 
the forces of Arnor and Angmar smashed one another to 
pieces and left no power of consequence in the North, 
just as Gondor and Mordor seem, in his eyes, bound to 
destroy one another.
He reckons without the strength of Rivendell.
If the companions are simple Hobbits of the Shire or Bree-
folk, then they need take no part in the war on Gorlanc. In 
the coming year, they hear rumours. Wild tales of flashing 
lights in the sky to the north, of a host of Elves passing 
through the woods, armed for war.
Gandalf is seen in the Shire and Bree several times that 
autumn, hastening back and forth as if on some important 
errand. The Bounders are especially busy that winter, as 
some especially nasty and aggressive Men trespass over 
the borders as they flee south.
Dúnedain, High Elves of Rivendell, or other heroes of 
great renown, may play a part of the assault on Gorlanc’s 
fort. Loremasters may expand this into a full adventure 
if desired, but with Glorfindel, Elladan and Elrohir in the 
vanguard of the attacking forces, Gorlanc’s motley crew of 
thieves and tomb robbers never have any hope of victory, 
especially without the Ring of Seven Jewels.
If Gorlanc has the Ring of Seven Jewels then the battle is 
far more costly for the forces of Rivendell: The sorcerer 
is still defeated, but Glorfindel and his followers must 
lay siege to the fort instead of overwhelming it. (For the 
ultimate fate of Gorlanc the sorcerer, see Holed Up in 
Staddle, overleaf.)
2
Strange Men, Strange Roads

--- PAGE 112 ---
Bree-land Region Guide
112
- Holed up - 
in Staddle 
For heroes of level 4 or 5
• 
When: This quest could be set at in the later summer 
or autumn of any year, and spans a number of months. 
It is designed to be run after the events of Strange Men, 
Strange Roads.
• 
Where: The adventure begins on the Greenway before 
heading into the Chetwood, and ending in and around 
Bree itself.
• 
 What: The Company must hunt down the last 
fugitives of a band of evil Men that once troubled the 
North.
• 
Why: Gorlanc has been defeated, but these last 
criminals must be defeated for the  safety of Bree.
• 
Who: Gorlanc, the broken sorcerer, and the Undertrees 
of Staddle.
• 
Themes: The pettiness of evil, and the need to look 
below the surface in order to see the movements of the 
Shadow.
Adventuring Phase
This adventure is divided into five parts, and begins at the 
Greenway and ends in Bree.
Part One – Down Rode the Huntress
The Player-heroes meet a messenger from the Rangers, 
and help her chase some fugitives from Gorlanc’s band 
who have escaped down the Greenway.
Part Two – Into The Chetwood
The chase brings the companions into the dangerous 
eastern reaches of Chetwood, where they have several 
unusual encounters (but there’s no sign of the sorcerer 
himself).
Part Three – Things Out of Place
Back in Bree, the companions look for signs that something 
is amiss, and discover strange behaviour in one Hobbit 
family out of Staddle.
Part Four – Watching & Waiting
The Company learns more about the threat in Staddle, 
and make contact with the Undertree family.
Part Five – Death under the Apple Trees
Armed with this knowledge, the Company can sneak into 
the Undertree Smial and battle Gorlanc’s followers.
Epilogue – A Harvest Moon
The Company consider their adventures and may decide 
to explore beyond the familiar fields they know.
Gorlanc’s Dead!
If the Player-heroes take part in the siege of Gorlanc’s 
fort (see previous page), then it’s possible they kill 
Gorlanc before the sorcerer can escape. (Players are 
usually utterly determined to hunt down and kill 
their foes, after all – had a player been present at 
the Battle of Fornost, when the Witch-king fled 
and Glorfindel prophesied "not by the hand of Man 
shall he fall", then doubtless that player would have 
immediately tried drawing back a bowstring with his 
teeth, arguing that an arrow loosed in that fashion 
wouldn’t count as "the hand of Man").
If necessary, you can replace Gorlanc with another 
villain in this adventure – Hirlinon, perhaps, or 
some hitherto hidden apprentice of the sorcerer, or 
even some other evil-doer unrelated to Gorlanc. The 
villain needs a little knowledge of herb-lore and vile 
sorcery to put the main plot into motion.

--- PAGE 113 ---
113
- Part One -
Down Rode the Huntress
Haleth, a Dúnadan the Company has met before if they 
played through the previous adventures presented in this 
supplement, is riding down the Greenway from the North, 
carrying important tidings.
If the companions reside in Bree, then they might meet 
her at the crossroads outside the town; alternatively, if she 
already knows and trusts the Company, she might show 
up on their doorstep in the dead of night.
A Weary Traveller
When the Player-heroes meet Haleth, they immediately 
see that she is exhausted and bloodied from long strife. 
Instead of her customary travelling gear, she wears a helm 
and war-mail beneath her green cloak. She carries a spear 
as well as her sword.
“I have ridden far in haste” she says, “And I have need of 
your assistance. Gather what weapons ye have, and come 
quick! There are foes to hunt!”
While the companions gather their gear, Haleth explains 
what’s going on. The forces of the Rangers and Rivendell 
destroyed the servants of the upstart sorcerer Gorlanc in 
battle near Fornost, and laid waste to his fort. However, 
the sorcerer and a few of his bodyguards escaped through 
a secret passage, and vanished into the wilderness. The 
chieftain of the Dúnedain sent Rangers out in all directions 
to find Gorlanc and put an end to his evil, and Haleth was 
among those sent south down the Greenway.
She found the trail of Gorlanc’s followers on the road a 
few miles north of Bree. She wants the Company to help 
her catch the sorcerer and his servants.
She believes that Gorlanc is likely trying to flee back to his 
old haunts beyond the Greyflood, in the land of Enedwaith, 
and that the best hope is to catch him before he gets too 
far south. She’s sent word to the other Rangers, telling 
them that their quarry is fleeing south on the Greenway, 
but they may not arrive in time. So, she’s turned to the 
companions. In the unlikely event that your players refuse 
to aid Haleth, then skip to Part Three – Things out of Place 
and continue the adventure from there.
Heroes Like in the Old Stories
If the companions are Dúnedain, High Elves of 
Rivendell or other experienced heroes, they might 
have participated in the siege of Gorlanc’s fort 
and you can skip this scene altogether – instead of 
Haleth asking the Player-heroes to aid in her finding 
Gorlanc, make the chase for Gorlanc part of the 
aftermath of the siege (see page 111).
The Chase
Haleth leads the Company north of the crossroads along 
the Greenway. Midway through the morning, the Look-
out spots something strange dead ahead – a roiling, 
seething black shape on the path. Haleth spurs her horse 
and charges towards the shape, which explodes into 
thousands of birds. 
2
4
Holed Up in Staddle

--- PAGE 114 ---
Bree-land Region Guide
114
The companions can now see it for what it was – a huge 
flock of crows had landed on the road. “One of the 
sorcerer’s tricks”, warns Haleth, “see, he has muddled the 
trail!”
It’s true – the ground ahead has been torn up by thousands 
of peck-marks and claw tracks, disguising any trail that 
Gorlanc might have left. Haleth orders the Company to 
stop and wait while she surveys the surrounding ground. 
The Hunter may attempt a DC 20 Wisdom (Survival) 
check to read the signs as well.
Haleth guesses that Gorlanc’s company has divided. 
Most have turned off the Greenway and gone east, while 
a smaller number have continued south, on down the 
road. She thinks that Gorlanc’s gone south-west towards 
the open fields between Bree-hill and the Brandywine 
(“He would want to get as far away from the Rangers as 
he can. Maybe there was a disagreement over pay – the 
sorcerer’s stolen gold was all lost with his fortress, and 
the greater part of his men followed him out of greed and 
fear, not loyalty.”) She declares that she’ll pursue Gorlanc 
herself, and sends the player characters to follow the 
other group east.
If the Player-hero succeeded at the Survival check by 5 
or more, then they get an uneasy feeling about Haleth’s 
decision; the sorcerer’s bootprints on the Greenway going 
south are very slightly different, a little lighter, compared to 
those the Company saw earlier – maybe Gorlanc is trying 
to trick his pursuers, and he’s actually fled eastward.
Persuading Haleth Otherwise
And that’s exactly what happened. The Player-heroes can 
convince Haleth to accompany them on the chase east 
with a successful DC 15 Charisma (Persuasion) check, 
if the Loremaster doesn’t mind them being accompanied 
by a skilled and extremely talented Ranger. If Haleth does 
accompany the Player-heroes, let them take the lead in 
any encounters — you might like to skip the combat scenes 
in Part Two, or stiffen the opponents with additional 
abilities or greater numbers, as Haleth’s swift blade will 
aid the Company greatly there.
Due East
Having parted with Haleth, the Company pursue their 
quarries east, heading towards the woodland on the back 
of Bree-hill. It appears Gorlanc’s minions are making 
straight for the Chetwood. The characters arrive on the 
edge of the wood at twilight. In the encroaching darkness, 
the Chetwood feels like an ancient, lonely place, beyond 
the comforts of the Bree-land. The trees mutter and creak 
as their branches wave in the wind; shafts and shards of 
moonlight flicker on the path, as if the wood is trying to 
lure the adventurers inwards… 
- Part Two -
Into The Chetwood
There are many crossing paths leading across the 
Chetwood, but the tracks the Company start to follow the 
next morning soon take a north-east course, leading them 
towards the older patches of the forest. In the first hours of 
the day they wander between green hillocks and dells, in a 
wood that by daylight appears leafy and full of colour, the 
true image of quiet and peacefulness…
The Bluebell Wood
It is almost dark when the companions find themselves 
walking across a strange, eerie part of the wood that’s full 
of bluebells. It is an ancient oakwood, and the violet-blue 
flowers cover its whole surface, like a carpet, their heavy 
heads gently swaying to the breeze. A faint honey smell 
is carried by the wind, bringing back memories of spring 
(regardless of the season the adventure is being run).
A few hundred yards into the Bluebell Wood, the 
companions spot a small clearing opening by the path. 
Three squat, dwarfish figures sit round a small fire. They 
are busy cooking some tasty-looking meat on long spits of 
wood, and a fine toothsome smell hits the companions as
they approach.
The creatures are small as children and wear wide- 
brimmed soft hats, a deep red in colour. They do indeed 
look like Hobbits, but of a scruffier, wilder sort than 
most, including even those few loners that wander the 
more remote parts of the Bree-land. As the companions 
get nearer, one of them silently stands up, then bows in a 
welcoming gesture.
An Audience
Should the heroes want to interact with the three denizens 
of the Bluebell Wood, the Loremaster should let them 
1/2
2

--- PAGE 115 ---
115
introduce themselves as usual. The trio remains silent for
the whole length of the encounter, but otherwise act in a 
very friendly manner, often repeating the companions’ 
gestures in what may seem an exceedingly obsequious 
manner. If a hero tries to divine information from them, 
a DC 13 Intelligence (Riddle) check interprets their 
attempts at communicating at meaning that the creatures 
live in the Bluebell Wood, and that they have never 
travelled beyond the boundaries of the Far Chetwood. 
Could they be some sort of Hobbitish Woodwoses?
When all introductions are made away with, the creatures 
eventually sit down to continue their meal, inviting the 
companions to join them. Any urgent query from the 
heroes (like if the creatures have witnessed anyone else 
passing through the wood) is waved off, to be answered 
after the meal.
If the adventurers partake in the meal, they are of course in 
for a surprise: the meat is not venison or from any animal, 
but poisonous mushrooms disguised by the magic of the
Bluebell Wood.
The Oakmen
Heroes eating from the Oakmen’s food are automatically 
Poisoned (no saving throw allowed). As soon as any one 
of the heroes is Poisoned, or if they all refuse to take part 
in the meal, the Oakmen make their move: All around 
the small fire more dwarfish creatures emerge from 
the shadows of the oak trees; in the darkness their hats 
look eerily like little blood-red toadstool caps. They have 
lost any Hobbitish features, a pale light gleams from 
their unnatural eyes and their faces now look more like 
counterfeits of human expressions.
The little creatures move in deathly silence. There are two 
Oakmen for each companion (see page 47). If at least half 
of them are defeated, the remaining Oakmen flee back 
into the forest, with strange hissing sounds that might be 
taken as laughing and giggling.
Gorlanc’s Man
If one or more suspicious heroes scout the nearby area, 
a DC 13 Intelligence (Investigation) check discovers 
the corpse of one of Gorlanc’s men, lying hidden 
among the bluebells a few yards away from the 
Oakmen’s fire. The side of his face is covered in blood 
that gushed from a head-wound, and scattered about 
him are the half-eaten remains of large mushrooms. 
Should the adventurers discover the body before the 
Oakmen spring their trap, the creatures abandon all 
caution and attack.
Holed Up in Staddle

--- PAGE 116 ---
Bree-land Region Guide
116
The Trouble with Badgers
"Tom was telling an absurd story about badgers and their 
queer ways..."
On the second day of their journey into the Chetwood, 
the companions encounter one of the various nameless 
streams that cross the forest. The land has been falling 
steadily for some time now, as the wood gets nearer to 
the Midgewater Marshes, and the water of the creek 
splashes noisily among mossy rocks. By sunset, the breeze 
whispering among the trees begins to be tainted by the 
reek of the marshes to the east.
As the heroes scramble down a treacherous slope, at its 
bottom they see a pond of dark water, fed by the swift-
running stream. A large patch of terrain close to the 
nearest shore looks like it was freshly turned. Dimly, the 
companions can hear voices crying and shouting, as if from 
deep underground. Gorlanc’s men have been trapped in 
the tunnels of the Badger-folk of the Midgewater Marshes!
As the heroes draw closer, they spot several pieces of 
travelling equipment and war gear lying about. They can 
also make out voices coming from below the earth, and 
can even speak to Gorlanc’s followers if they kneel by the 
pond and shout at the top of their lungs. 
Through this unlikely conversation, the Player-heroes may 
discern the following:
• 
Gorlanc’s men are all stuck under the earth in dark 
tunnels, so dark they can’t even see each other, or 
anything else.
• 
Gorlanc isn’t here – their Master led them into the 
Chetwood, but when they lit up a fire by the pool and 
the ground opened, swallowing them up, he must 
have managed somehow to escape.
• 
They feel that there are creatures burrowing around 
them. They hear them sniffing and raking the earth 
with claws. One man even claims to have seen their 
blinking eyes.
• 
They don’t know where Gorlanc went. One of them 
insists that the Master will return to free them, another 
that the Master has betrayed them, and the third is 
terrified that Gorlanc is there in under the ground 
with them, only he’s keeping perfectly silent and still, 
and listening to them betray him. The Master delights 
in cruel tricks like that, he says.
The followers of the sorcerer beg the Player-heroes to do 
something and free them. If the Player-heroes try to dig 
the buried men up, the soft ground above them starts to 
collapse, and the three Brigands in the tunnels scream 
and beg them to stop.
Rings of Smoke
As the companions are busy thinking about what to do 
next, they suddenly smell the fragrance of pipe-weed 
that has been recently lit, and looking about them they 
discover that a grey-cloaked figure has apparently been 
among them for a while now, sitting on a tree stump. 
“Well met, my friends.” says the stranger, puffing at his 
pipe. “It seems that Butterbur knew what he was saying, 
for once!”.
The stranger is Gandalf the Grey, of course. When the 
companions recover from the surprise, the Wizard 
explains that he was in Bree looking for news about 
the escape of Gorlanc, when Barnabas Butterbur, the 
innkeeper of The Prancing Pony, informed him about 
the companions and their mission. (Should the heroes 
wonder about how Butterbur could know about their 
task, Gandalf says that there isn’t much happening in the 
Bree-land that Barnabas doesn’t know about – he is much 
wiser than he looks). Unfortunately for the companions, 
Gandalf is quick to confirm that Gorlanc is indeed not 
trapped underground with his men:
“I found tracks before I came here, leading out from where 
the wood ends and the marshes begin. It seems he fled 
east from here, reached the borders of the marshes, and 
then turned south. You need to take it from here and find 
out where he went. I can deal with the badgers and the 
sorcerer’s clueless minions here, so you won’t need to 
tarry any longer.”
The Fate of the Prisoners
Before they leave to continue their hunting, Gandalf asks 
the companions what should be done with Gorlanc’s men. 
He intends to frighten the prisoners out of their wits and 
then set them free with an oath not to trouble anyone ever 
again, but the Wizard wants to test the heroes first...
2
4

--- PAGE 117 ---
117
If the companions urge Gandalf to kill or torture the 
prisoners, or suggest that he free them so the Player-heroes 
can fight them, then the Wizard is visibly displeased, and 
without saying what he will actually do with them, he lets 
the companions go with a frown.
If the Player-heroes propose anything similar to Gandalf’s 
own decision, for example suggesting to bring them 
into the custody of the Reeve of Bree, or anyway adopt 
a different solution that doesn’t involve plans to make 
the prisoners suffer or die, the Wizard is impressed by 
the companions’ capability for pity and considers them 
worthy of a reward:
“I owe a big debt to the Badger-folk for the little trick they 
played on Gorlanc, blessed be their grimy paws! The 
sorcerer was fleeing with such haste that he left something 
behind. I found this at the borders of the marshes.”
From a fold in his cloak Gandalf draws a silver sickle. After 
looking at it for one long moment as if lost in thought, he 
hands it to the companions. “This is not of the sorcerer’s 
own making — he must have dug it out of some barrow in 
the North. Maybe you’ll find it useful. Now, don’t delay 
any further!” (Gorlanc has used the magical properties of 
this silver sickle as a dowsing rod, to locate a particular 
root he knew to grow along the borders of the Midgewater 
Marshes — see The Coming Harvest, page 121).
The Gardener’s Sickle
The Gardener’s Sickle has a silver blade that never 
dulls. It was made by the Elves, long ago, and seems 
to quiver in the hand when one is hunting for the 
wild herbs of Eriador. It is considered a Wondrous 
Artefact with a Blessing to Nature.
Back to Bree
Following the directions given by Gandalf, it doesn’t take 
much time for the companions to find the tracks of the 
sorcerer, and they are soon back on Gorlanc’s trail as he 
heads southwest. The next morning, they pursue him back 
across the Bree-land, but to no avail. They find a few more 
tracks, enough to convince them that Gorlanc passed this 
way, but the sorcerer himself cannot be found.
Once back in Bree, the Company may search further, but 
there is no sign of the sorcerer on the Road or in the Wild. 
It is as though the sorcerer vanished.
The next part of this adventure takes place weeks or even 
months later. The Loremaster may choose to skip over the 
time, give the Company a short Fellowship phase, or even
run another adventure in the gap before continuing to 
Part Three – Things out of Place.
- Part Three -
Things Out of Place
And what became of Gorlanc, after he fled the Chetwood?
The sorcerer had lost much of his power and influence, but 
none of his cruelty and cunning. He knew that if he fled 
along the Road, or cross country, the pursuing Rangers 
would surely find him. He had to hide – and where better 
to hide than a Hobbit-hole?
Just outside the village of Staddle, there is a large old 
Hobbit-hole, so big and so ancient that polite Hobbits 
call it a Smial. Since time immemorial (or at least since 
the time of the kings), it has been home to the Undertree 
family, named because a huge old apple tree grows atop
the Smial, and the hole’s many tunnels and cellars wriggle 
and squirm around its labyrinthine roots. The Undertrees 
own large apple orchards in the farmland around Staddle.
In the dead of night, knife in hand, Gorlanc came to the 
great round front door of the Undertree Smial. When the 
Hobbit-porter opened the door, Gorlanc pressed the knife
to the poor boy’s throat and demanded he show him to 
the master’s rooms.
Now, the master of the Undertree Smial and head of the 
family is old Alphonsus Undertree, and the apple of his 
2
Holed Up in Staddle

--- PAGE 118 ---
Bree-land Region Guide
118
eye is his granddaughter Blossom. Gorlanc crept into 
Blossom’s rooms and poisoned the young Hobbit-maiden 
with a secret venom, and told Alphonsus that the girl 
would most certainly die unless Gorlanc regularly treated 
her with an antidote. If the Undertrees told anyone about 
their new house guest, or tried to murder Gorlanc while he
slept, then Blossom would perish.
So, for the weeks or months between the night Haleth 
the Ranger called for the Company’s help and the start 
of this part of the adventure, Gorlanc’s been squatting in 
the Undertree Smial, an unwanted house guest who’s long 
outstayed his welcome. Worse, he has invited several of 
his other surviving followers to join him in his new hiding-
place.
The sorcerer’s current plan is to graft a malicious root he 
dug out from the ground on the borders of the Midgewater 
Marshes to the great apple tree growing atop the Smial. 
This way he hopes to corrupt the spirit of the apple tree, 
placing it under his command.
All he needs to do is wait for the harvest, for the darkening 
of the year...
Gossip in Bree
The companions might get hints of the presence of Gorlanc 
in any of the following ways. Intersperse these rumours 
with red herrings and regular gossip about trivial matters:
• 
The Undertrees of Staddle didn’t invite anyone to their 
midsummer feast! They usually invite half the village. 
This is quite an unforgivable snub.
• 
Matt Woolfoot, one of the serving boys at the 
Undertree Smial, has developed a crippling fear of 
both Big Folk and trees – and, presumably, big trees. 
The Woolfoots have sent him to stay with cousins in 
the Shire until his nerves are fixed.
• 
This year’s apple-harvest looks to be a bumper one, 
make no mistake. Why, all you have to do is look 
at the old apple tree atop Undertree Smial, with its 
overloaded branches and big blossoms.
• 
Hear about the ghost of Staddle? According to Big 
Bob the Swine-Herd (that’s Big Bob who’s a Hobbit, 
not Small Bob who’s a Man, mind you), he saw a pale 
figure sneaking ’round the trees, and then it vanished 
into thin air! And he says that one of his piglets went 
missing too, round the same time. Do ghosts eat 
piglets?
Albert Undertree
Young Albert Undertree is Blossom’s brother, the prince 
of the Undertree family. In the past, he was a dashing 
young gentle-hobbit, always with a kind word for 
everyone he met. Of late, though, he’s been strangely 
quiet and distant.
It’s enough of a personality change to be noticeable, even 
to the most unobservant Player-hero.
Watching Albert
The companions spot Albert buying some unusual 
supplies in the market at Bree; lots of food (not unexpected 
for a Hobbit family), but also cutlery and plates for Big 
Folk, odd roots and herbs not usually used in cookery, and 
strange copper pots custom-made by a passing Dwarven 
tinker.
With a successful DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check, the 
companions spot an ill-favoured Man keeping an eye on 
Albert. This stranger isn’t a resident in Bree; he came up 
the East Road, and goes back that way when Albert goes 
back to Staddle. If the observer succeeds by 5 or more, 
the characters spot Albert giving a purse of coin to the 
stranger.
Following Albert
If the characters follow Albert, they discover that he rides 
out of Staddle every few weeks. On these strange errands, 
he goes down the East Road to the edge of the Chetwood, 
2
2

--- PAGE 119 ---
119
or even as far as the Forsaken Inn, and there he meets with 
suspicious Men who remind the companions of Gorlanc’s 
followers. Sometimes, he delivers a note to them, written 
in a cipher neither he nor they can read (Gorlanc’s men 
bring the note to one of his surviving lieutenants; these 
messages keep Gorlanc appraised of how many of his 
followers escaped the battle at the fort).
Some of these Men make arrangements to meet Albert in 
the Chetwood; from there, Albert guides them to a secret 
entrance into the Smial.
Confronting Albert
Albert is terrified to speak to the Player-heroes about 
anything other than the most trivial matters. He’ll pass 
the time-of-day with them, or exchange a word or two 
about the apple harvest, but as soon as the heroes ask 
him any questions about his family or his business, he 
immediately claims that he has an urgent appointment, 
producing a pocket-watch from his waistcoat and 
exclaiming that he’s late, he’s late to underline his haste. 
A DC 10 Intelligence (Riddle) or Wisdom (Insight) 
check confirms that he’s lying, and that he’s terrified of 
being seen talking to anyone.
If the Player-heroes force Albert to talk to them, run it as 
an audience. Unlike a regular audience, where the Player-
heroes are petitioning a lord or householder for a favour 
like assistance or lodgings for the night, here the challenge 
is quelling Albert’s fears for long enough to get some 
answers out of him.
Motivation and Expectations
Albert desperately wants to save his sister and free his 
family from Gorlanc’s evil. But he sees no way forward. 
The following expectations are in play:
• 
“Don’t you know I’m being watched? Gorlanc has 
eyes everywhere!” — Apply a -2 modifier if the heroes 
confront Albert in public or are otherwise indiscreet in 
their conversation with him.
• 
“You’re all in terrible danger!” — If the heroes 
acknowledge the danger the Undertrees are in and 
indicate they’re willing to place themselves into 
jeopardy as well this earns a +1 modifier. But if they 
instead make light of Albert’s predicament or brag 
about their own abilities, they receive a -1 modifier 
instead.
• 
“Blossom’s sick and she needs her medicine.” —  A 
hero that can convince Albert that they can heal his 
sister (perhaps by showing him the Gardner’s Sickle) 
earns a +2 modifier. If they don’t have an answer for 
what happens to Blossom after Gorlanc is defeated, 
apply a -2 modifier.
Introduction
The normal approach using Traditions will not work here. 
The Company spokesperson can either make a heartfelt 
plea to Albert to trust the characters — a DC 15 Charisma 
(Persuasion) check; or grab the Hobbit by his waistcoat 
and tell him to shut up and listen — a DC 15 Charisma 
(Intimidation) check.
Interaction
Heroes that succeed at the Introduction check can get two 
pieces of information out of Albert before triggering his 
fears; heroes that fail only get one. If the Company presses 
him, they can get one additional tidbit out of him, but they 
then must make the Final Audience check to see if there’s 
anything else he will tell them.
• 
There’s a horrible man named Gorlanc hiding in 
the cellars of the Undertree Smial. He’s poisoned 
Blossom, and says that if the Hobbits don’t obey him, 
she’ll die!
• 
Gorlanc’s not alone. He sent Albert out to fetch several 
other Men, and they’re almost as horrible. Now 
they’re all hiding in the cellars of Undertree Smial, 
drinking Alphonsus’ good cider and plotting some 
terrible villainy.
• 
Gorlanc put a purple crystal under Blossom’s tongue, 
and now she gets horribly sick if she doesn’t get a 
dose of antidote every few days. Only Gorlanc knows 
how to make the antidote.
• 
The Men are hiding from the Rangers; if any more 
Rangers show up in Staddle, he’ll kill everyone in the 
Smial.
• 
They’re doing something else in the cellar, something 
that smells foul and terrible. Albert has bad dreams 
every night he sleeps at home now. They’ve defiled his 
family halls.
Final Audience Check
By now, Albert is near panic, frantically twisting his 
handkerchief into knots and sweating visibly. The result of 
the final check determines his next action:
4
Holed Up in Staddle

--- PAGE 120 ---
Bree-land Region Guide
120
Failure. He either runs off or starts screaming for help 
and telling anyone who’ll listen that the Company is 
trying to rob him.
Success by 0-2. He doesn’t know what to do. He’s scared 
that if he acts against Gorlanc and the other Men, he’ll 
doom his sister and the rest of his family. He doesn’t 
volunteer any more information but he doesn’t oppose the 
Company trying to save him.
Success by 3-5. If the characters question Albert about 
the layout of the Smial, he will reveal the existence of the 
Side Door and the Secret Cellar (see page 123). Otherwise, 
he provides an additional piece of information from the 
list above.
Success by 6+. As the entry above, and Albert gives the 
Company a key to the Front Door.
- Part Four -
Watching & Waiting
Foolhardy players may wish to rush straight off to the 
Undertree Smial to drive Gorlanc out with sword and fire, 
but, as Albert warned, an open attack on the sorcerer’s 
refuge will doubtless end in disaster. Gorlanc has hostages, 
and even if the Company could somehow safely free them 
all, there’s still the matter of Blossom Undertree and the 
sorcerer’s poison. The Player-heroes must come up with a 
plan before assaulting the Smial.
Alternatively, if the Company never confront Albert, and 
instead take a stealthier approach, this part of the adventure 
covers information gathering and reconnaissance.
Watching the Smial
Keeping the Undertree Smial under observation (either by 
hiding in the surrounding woods — a DC 13 Dexterity 
(Stealth) check, or by asking for gossip and rumours — a 
DC 13 Intelligence (Riddle) check) yields the following 
information – one fact for a success, two tidbits if the hero 
succeeds by 5 or more.
Hostages
If the players don’t already know, they can work out that 
the Undertrees are being held hostage by watching them. 
On the rare occasions they’re allowed out of their Hobbit-
hole, the Undertrees cast furtive, nervous glances back 
towards their home, as if there’s some darkness lurking 
there. Gossips in Staddle talk about how the Undertrees 
have always been snooty, but lately they’ve been especially 
standoffish and private, and how some of them — like 
young Blossom — seem to have locked themselves away in 
the Smial altogether.
Watchers
There are three (or possibly four) sets of sentries keeping 
watch at the Undertree Smial. Sneaking into the Smial 
Alerting Gorlanc
From this point onwards, once the Player-heroes know 
that the Undertree Hobbits are being held hostage, they 
must be especially cautious. You should warn them that 
if they draw too much attention to themselves, they’ll 
alert Gorlanc and things will end very badly.
From now on, if a player fails any roll with a natural 1, 
you should pick one of the following consequences:
• 
More Guards! Gorlanc recruits some Thugs for 
hire from the Forsaken Inn, or sends word to other 
surviving followers to come join him in his new hiding 
place. Add either 1d4+2 Thugs or 1d3 Brigands to 
Gorlanc’s retinue.
• 
Murder Most Foul: Gorlanc kills one of the Hobbits 
to keep the rest in check. This death weighs heavily 
on the souls of the Player-heroes; each of them gains 
1 Shadow point.
If you’re using the optional Eye of Mordor rules, these 
consequences can take the place of raising the Hunt score 
(unless you wish to very seriously challenge your players).
4

--- PAGE 121 ---
121
in Part Six will require bypassing some or all of these 
watchful eyes.
• 
The Hobbits: The Undertree Hobbits have been told 
that if they see anything out of the ordinary, they are 
to report it to Gorlanc. The Undertrees rarely leave 
their Smial, but that doesn’t mean they sit around 
underground all the time. There’s much too much to 
do: cows to be milked, orchards to be tended, lawns 
to be mowed, elevenses to be had out on the patio. 
It’s a miserable, sullen elevenses, of course – they 
have to have tea because Gorlanc told them not to 
do anything that might arouse suspicion, so the poor 
Undertrees dutifully march out and choke back cakes 
that taste of tears and bitterness so no one suspects 
they’re under the control of an evil sorcerer.
If the companions have made contact with Albert, or 
convince the other Undertrees that they can save the day 
— a DC 15 Charisma (Persuasion) check — the Hobbits 
won’t alert Gorlanc when the time comes. See Rallying the 
Undertrees, on page 124.
• 
The Dogs: The Undertrees keep several large but 
harmless wolfhounds to see off scrumping Hobbit-
children. They’ll start barking if anyone comes close 
to the Smial. A successful DC 13 Wisdom (Animal 
Handling) check, possibly assisted by an appropriate 
trait like Beast-lore, can calm the hounds long enough 
to get past them.
• 
The Men: Gorlanc keeps his followers well out of 
sight, but he has them guard the Back Door of the 
Smial by night (see page 123), and they sometimes 
stretch their legs by wandering around the orchard. 
Sneaking around the orchard at night requires a DC 
15 Dexterity (Stealth) check; getting through the 
Back Door without being seen would take a Ring of 
Invisibility — or a clever distraction.
• 
The Tree: If the Company waits too long, then Gorlanc 
is able to put his evil plan into action and awaken an 
evil spirit in the apple tree, turning every root and 
branch into his spies. See The Coming Harvest, below.
The Coming Harvest 
Gorlanc brought a malicious root out of the Midgewater 
Marshes, to graft it on to the old apple tree that grows 
atop the Smial and taint it. Based on some old lore that 
the sorcerer studied, this bog root is the living remnant 
of a gigantic tree that once grew in the area and that was 
cursed during the wars against Angmar. In the autumn, 
when the apple tree bears fruit, all the fruit will be tainted, 
and all those who eat of them will be vulnerable to 
Gorlanc’s trickery.
Gorlanc has already grafted the root to the tree, and 
slowly, the tree is waking up, like the wicked, rotten trees 
of the Old Forest. It’s most active at night. A successful DC 
20 Intelligence (Lore or Nature) check, perhaps assisted 
by the Gardener trait, spots there’s something strange 
about the tree.
• 
The apples this year are especially large, but taste 
oddly bitter if eaten.
• 
The big tree atop the Smial rustles oddly, and not 
always when the wind blows.
• 
The roots on the surface seem to twist and writhe as 
if in pain.
The tree can alert Gorlanc to the presence of intruders if 
they cross any of its roots (say, to get through the Back 
Door or down the chimney). The only way to avoid this 
is to temporarily lull the tree — a DC 13 Charisma 
(Performance) or musical instrument check. The results 
of this roll determine how long the tree is put to sleep:
• 
Success means the tree sleeps for a roughly a minute
• 
Success by 5 or more means the tree sleeps for roughly 
two minutes
• 
Success with a natural 20 means the tree sleeps for 
half an hour
The Antidote
In order to be sure of curing Blossom, the Player-heroes 
need to learn about the poison Gorlanc used on her. They 
could find this out by:
• 
Questioning Albert, and discovering that Gorlanc 
used a ‘purple crystal’.
• 
Sneaking into Blossom’s room and examining her 
— requiring a DC 13 Wisdom (Medicine) check, 
perhaps aided by the Leechcraft trait.
• 
Examining the herbs and tinctures that Albert purchases 
in the market — a DC 15 Wisdom (Medicine) check 
and mayhap assisted by the Herb-lore trait.
4
4
Holed Up in Staddle

--- PAGE 122 ---
Bree-land Region Guide
122
• 
If Berelas (page 98) is still in Bree (perhaps in its 
jail…), she can easily identify the poison and suggest 
an antidote.
Armed with this knowledge, a successful DC 15 Wisdom 
(Medicine) check allows the characters to guess that 
Gorlanc is using an ancient poison called saewesgal — a 
concoction of several lesser poisons blended so that any 
one cure is insufficient. A Scholar can use a Healing Die 
to keep Blossom alive another day, but only the actual 
antidote can remove all traces of the poison from her 
system. The cure is a much stronger, more concentrated 
brew of the weak tea that Gorlanc has been using to treat 
the symptoms. It requires a DC 15 Wisdom (Medicine) 
check and several hours uninterrupted to prepare.
The Undertree Smial
The Undertrees have a magnificent Hobbit hole. They’re 
one of the wealthier families in Bree-land, so while their 
home cannot match say, Brandy Hall or the Great Smials 
of Tookborough, it compares favourably to Bag End, and 
is much, much larger. Tunnels run and spiral in many 
different directions, often following the root network of 
the tree above.
There are storerooms and presses for making cider, 
cellars and pantries that hold enough food to feed 
an army, attics crammed with mathoms, a library of 
several dozen books, apartments for five generations of 
Undertree Hobbits, guest rooms, breakfasting rooms, 
dining rooms, kitchens, night kitchens (which contain 
only those supplies needed for a  midnight snack) and 
nurseries.
The main living area is a two-level affair, running along 
the south and west side of the hill. Two rows of windows 
look out over the lawns and the tree-lined driveway that 
runs down to the road to Staddle.
Behind the Smial are the extensive apple-orchards of the 
Undertrees.
Upper Level
• 
1. Blossom’s Room: The unfortunate Hobbit girl 
is now too ill to leave her bed, thanks to Gorlanc’s 
poison. If the Player-heroes slay Gorlanc without first 
finding a way to save Blossom, then their victory will 
be blighted by her death. Any character proficient in 
Medicine can tell instantly that Blossom has been 
poisoned and is on the brink of death.
• 
2. Alphonsus’ Rooms: Old Alphonsus, the head 
of the family, has had his will broken by Gorlanc. 
He won’t dare resist the sorcerer unless the Player-
heroes rally him with a successful DC 15 Charisma 
(Persuasion) check. See page 124 for more on turning 
the Undertrees against Gorlanc.
• 
3. Sun Room: This large room boasts three huge and 
expensive windows that let in the summer sunshine. 
It’s a lovely spot to snooze on a warm afternoon, or 
for aged Hobbit grandparents to sit and watch the 
children playing on the lawn below. For the  Player-
heroes, it’s important for another reason: these are 
the only windows in the whole Hobbit-hole big enough 
for a Man or Dwarf to climb through.
• 
4. Main Chimney: Even the cosiest Hobbit-hole 
needs a warming fire in winter-time, but this Smial is 
built under and around and even in a huge apple-tree, 
so a normal chimney was not an option. A particularly 
brilliant and eccentric ancestor of the family designed 
this special crooked chimney. All the fireplaces in the 
Smial feed into one central shaft, and then that shaft 
runs off at a steep angle to a little folly in the orchard, 
made to resemble a tumble-down ruined tower, 
modelled (it is said) on the watchtower at Weathertop. 
Especially brave (and small) characters could try 
clambering down the chimney, as long as it is a warm 
night and no fires are burning below. The chimney-
flue network gives access to most of the rooms in the 
hole via their fireplaces, but it is a perilous climb, 
requiring a successful DC 13 Strength (Athletics) or 
Dexterity (Acrobatics) to avoid getting stuck and a 
DC 13 Intelligence (Investigation) check to emerge 
in the right room.
Ground Level
• 
5. Front Door: The great Front Door of Undertree 
Smial is rarely opened, except for weddings, funerals 
and birthday parties. Everyone goes in and out the 
Side Door. It is ceremonially opened once a year when 
the first bottles of cider are brought out and distributed 
to the villagers of Staddle. Albert Undertree has a key 
to the Front Door, and can give it to the Player-heroes 
if they want to attempt an unexpected frontal assault.

--- PAGE 123 ---
123
• 
6. Side Door: The main door into the Hobbit-hole. It’s 
always watched (by one of the Hobbits by day, and by 
at least two of Gorlanc’s Brigands by night).
• 
7. Great Hall: This long tunnel runs all through the 
ground floor of the Smial. Its ceilings are tall enough 
for a Man to stand upright.
• 
8. Spiralling Tunnel: Instead of a stair, this steep 
spiral runs up and down between the levels of the 
hole. It’s a tight fit for a big Man to wriggle through.
• 
9. Dumb Waiter: Another innovation, this hand-
cranked lift is used to deliver food down and bring 
cider up. It goes all the way down to the secret cellar. 
The shaft could be used by stealthy heroes as a way to 
creep into the lower levels of the Smial.
Lower Level
• 
10. Back Door: The Back Door of the Smial is hard to 
find if you’re not looking for it – it’s in the middle of 
the orchard, hidden by rows of apple trees. It’s usually 
guarded by one of Gorlanc’s men, although he’s under 
instructions to hide if any Hobbits wander by.
• 
11. Cellars & Storerooms
• 
12. Cider Press
• 
13. Converted Laboratory: Here’s where Gorlanc 
brews up his potions and poisons. The air is foul-
smelling; the brews are caustic and vile. However, all 
the ingredients for a cure for the poison can be found 
amid Gorlanc’s jars and bottles.
• 
14. Common-room: This large cellar room has been 
adopted by Gorlanc’s followers as their main living 
quarters.  Half of his Gorlanc’s followers are Brigands, 
half are simple Thugs; there’s at least one follower for 
each companion. Any of the Men not on guard remain 
here, drinking and gambling.
• 
15. Root Chamber: Originally, this chamber 
contained a well, but the tree-roots found the water 
and choked the well-shaft. So, now it’s a curiosity, a 
room full of tree-roots. Gorlanc took advantage of it 
to graft the root dug from the Midgewater Marshes to 
the apple tree.
Secret Cellar
• 
16. Gorlanc’s Room: This older cellar was prone 
to flooding, and so the Undertrees sealed it off. 
Finding the entrance requires a DC 15 Intelligence 
(Investigation) check. Gorlanc’s taken over this cellar 
and outfitted it with furnishings and luxuries looted 
from the upper levels. If Alphonsus is consulted, his 
recollections of the old room provide Advantage on 
checks to find the secret door.
Holed Up in Staddle

--- PAGE 124 ---
Bree-land Region Guide
124
- Part Five -
Death Under The Apple Trees
When the Player-heroes finally move against Gorlanc, 
they must do so with stealth, speed or both. There are 
too many innocents at risk for them to treat the attack on 
the Undertree Smial as a siege or dungeon expedition, for 
Gorlanc will use the hostages against them.
To successfully storm the Hobbit-hole, the characters need 
to overcome the following challenges:
Getting In
How are the heroes getting into the Smial? The obvious 
entrances are watched; other ways in are more covert, but 
harder to use.
If suspicions are aroused — say, an intruder is spotted, or 
something seems to be amiss — then one or two of Gorlanc’s 
men climb out of the common-room on the lower level of 
the Smial and head towards the disturbance. If the alarm 
is raised, half of them investigate while the others guard 
Gorlanc.
Rallying the Undertrees
The Undertree family hate and fear Gorlanc, but believe 
they’re helpless to resist him. If they act, he will murder 
them. Even if by some miracle they were able to catch him 
by surprise, or poison his food, then Blossom Undertree 
would still die without the antidote the sorcerer provides 
for her. That means that the Hobbits living in the Smial 
will raise the alarm (but not fight) if they see the Player-
heroes.
The Company can get the Undertrees on their side by:
• 
Curing Blossom first, then going after Gorlanc.
• 
Convincing Alphonsus Undertree to trust them — a 
DC 15 Charisma (Persuasion) check.
• 
Persuading Albert Undertree to secretly inform his 
family to be ready for rescue (see page 119).
If the Company gets the Hobbits on their side, then the 
Undertrees will reveal the layout and hiding places of 
the Smial. The other great advantage of rallying the 
Undertrees is that it stops Gorlanc’s men from using them 
as hostages, as the Undertrees can hide; the only thing 
more stealthy than a Hobbit hiding in the Wild is a Hobbit 
hiding in a mansion full of nooks and crannies where he 
played hide-and-seek for years as a child.
Battling Gorlanc’s Men
In the cramped, narrow corridors of the Hobbit-hole, 
there’s little room to swing a sword or thrust a spear. 
Most spaces count as sized for Small creatures and a 
Medium creature squeezing into the hallway or room has 
Disadvantage on attack rolls and Dexterity saving throws. 
Only the Sun Room (3), Great Hall (7) and Common Room 
(14) are big enough for this penalty to not apply. The men 
fight to the death as long as Gorlanc is alive. If the sorcerer 
is defeated, they become Craven.
Evil Roots
The added danger of the Smial is the tree itself. Thanks to 
Gorlanc’s evil doings, the tree is half-awake and angry. 
As described on page 121, the companions can try to lull 
the tree to sleep, but it wakes up again when the alarm 
is raised. The tree-roots cannot attack the Player-heroes 
directly, but they can still grab and trip intruders.
If any of the companions roll a natural 1 on an ability check 
within the Smial, a hidden root either raises the alarm or 
reaches out and grabs them. The Grappled companion 
can escape with a DC 10 Strength (Athletics) check.
The Final Confrontation
When the Player-heroes finally confront Gorlanc — the 
sorcerer, the tomb robber, the self-proclaimed lord of the 
North and enemy of the Enemy — they find a foul-smelling
old man with a ragged beard. He is wearing a mixture of 
4
4

--- PAGE 125 ---
125
tattered robes and fine but Hobbit-sized clothing (a comfy 
Hobbit dressing-gown makes a tight jacket for a Man). He
rants and raves at the Company, claiming that he holds 
life and death in his hands. Touch him, he warns, and the 
Hobbit-girl will perish. Oppose him, and all of Bree-land 
will turn on the Company. Attack him, and he will destroy 
them with his sorcery.
Gorlanc is lying; he has nothing left but his bluster, scant 
magic, and a poisoned knife.
Gorlanc
Medium Human (Evil Men)
STR 
11 (+0)
DEX 
15 (+2)
CON 
14 (+2)
INT 
19 (+4)
WIS 
17 (+3)
CHA 
15 (+2)
Armour Class 12
Hit Points 65 (10d8+20)
Speed 25 ft
Skills Intimidation +5, Persuasion +5
Senses passive Perception 13
Languages Westron, Sindarin, Black Speech
Challenge 2 (450 XP)
Actions
Bewilder (1/day). Gorlanc still has enough magic to 
temporarily distract his foes. He can use his action to 
make all creatures within 30 feet make a DC 13 Wisdom 
saving throw or become Stunned for 1d4+1 rounds. While 
the effect lasts, he may use his bonus action to make a 
melee attack against a Stunned creature.
Enervation (Recharge 5-6). Gorlanc points at a creature 
and snarls in a dark tongue some sorcerous malediction. 
The target must make a DC 13 Strength saving throw. On 
a failure, the target is weakened: it may only move or take 
an action (not both) on its turn and has Disadvantage on 
attack rolls. And the end of its turn, the target may repeat 
the saving throw, ending the effect on a success.
Poisoned Dagger. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 
5 ft, one target. Hit: 4 (1d4+2) piercing damage and the 
target must make a DC 13 Constitution saving throw or 
become Poisoned until they take a long rest.
- Epilogue -
A Harvest Moon
It is perhaps fitting that a man who dedicated his mortal 
span to looting the buried treasures of a past age should 
perish deep underground. Gorlanc’s defeat ends this 
adventure. Any surviving followers of his surrender or 
flee.
The characters have proven themselves more than able to 
tackle mortal perils – but there are worse foes out there, in 
the wilder world. When they meet Gandalf again, the Grey 
Wanderer might show any worthy hero the secret paths to 
Rivendell…
Holed Up in Staddle

--- PAGE 126 ---
Bree-land Region Guide
126
- index -
A
Adelard Took	
23
Adventuring in Bree	
37
Anna Wintermoss, Schoolmistress	
21
Archet	
27
(An) Audience with the Innkeeper	
31
B
Barnabas Butterbur	
31
Bathhouse	
34
(The) Body in the Marsh	
37
Bree	
16
Bree Map	
29
Bree-hill	
9
Bree-land & Around	
9
(The) Bree-wardens	
17
Brewery	
35
Brigands	
50
Building the Refuge at Girdley Island	
13
C
(The) Chetwood	
15
Combat Scenery for Towns	
16
Combe	
25
(The) Common-room	
31
D
Dangers of the Wild	
47
Deep Songs	
46
(The) Deepdelver	
14
Dwarves of the Blue Mountains	
43
	
Cultural Attitudes	
45
	
Cultural Heirlooms	
46
	
Cultural Virtues	
46
	
Description	
44
	
Dwarf Traits	
44
	
Names of the Blue Mountains	
44
	
Standard of Living	
44
	
Traders on the Road	
43
E
(The) East Road	
11
East Row	
21
(The) Elf & The Stag	
38
(The) Elf-dell	
27
Emissaries of the Enemy	
49
(An) Empty Land	
52
Experience Awards	
6
F
(New) Fellowship Phase Undertakings: 
	
Chance-meeting in the Inn	
42
	
Guard Bree and the Shire	
39
	
Guard the East Road	
10
	
Learn the Paths of the Chetwood	
42
	
Open Bree as a Sanctuary	
39
	
Receive Title (Regular at The Pony)	
42
	
Write a Letter	
40
(Temporary) Fellowship Phase Undertaking: 
	
Build a Refuge	
13
Foes to Freeze the Heart	
47
(The) Forsaken Inn	
22
G
Grandmother Tunnelly	
24
(The) Green	
18
Guests in the Inn	
36
H
(The) Hall of Orgulas	
14
Hallas Dúnadan	
12
Harp of the Halls	
46
Harry Talltree, the Forester of Archet	
28
Hedge & Gates	
17
(Optional Rule:) Heroic Heritage	
41
(The) High House	
26
(A) History of the Bree-land	
7
(A) History of the Four Villages	
7
Holed Up in Staddle	
112
	
Adventuring Phase	
112
	
Albert Undertree	
118
	
Alerting Gorlanc	
120
	
(The) Antidote	
121
	
(An) Audience	
114
	
Back to Bree	
117
	
Battling Gorlanc’s Men	
124
	
(The) Bluebell Wood	
114
	
(The) Chase	
113
	
(The) Coming Harvest	
121
	
Confronting Albert	
119
	
Due East	
114
	
Epilogue - A Harvest Moon	
125
	
Evil Roots	
124
	
(The) Fate of the Prisoners	
116
	
Final Audience Check	
119
	
(The) Final Confrontation	
124
	
Following Albert	
118
	
(The) Gardener’s Sickle	
117
	
Gorlanc	
125
	
Gorlanc’s Dead!	
112
	
Gorlanc’s Man	
115
	
Gossip in Bree	
118
	
Ground Level	
122
	
Heroes Like in the Old Stories	
113
	
Hostages	
120
	
Interaction	
119
	
Introduction	
119
	
Lower Level	
123
	
(The) Oakmen	
115
	
Part Five - Death Under The App le Trees	124
	
Part Four - Watching & Waiting	
120
	
Part One - Down Rode the Huntress	
113
	
Part Three - Things Out of Place	
117
	
Part Two - Into The Chetwood	
114
	
Persuading Haleth Otherwise	
114
	
Rallying the Undertrees	
124
	
Rings of Smoke	
116
	
Secret Cellar	
123
	
(The) Trouble with Badgers	
116
	
(The) Undertree Smial	
122
	
(The) Undertree Smial Map	
123
	
Upper Level	
122
	
Watchers	
120
	
Watching Albert	
118
	
Watching the Smial	
120
	
(A) Weary Traveller	
113
How to Use This Guide	
5
I
Ill-favoured Men	
50
(The) Innkeeper	
30
(The) Innkeeper as a Patron	
31
Introduction	
4
J
Jack the Forsaken	
22
Journey Event Tables	
52
	
Journey Event Table Entry 1 	
53
	
Journey Event Table Entry 2 	
54
	
Journey Event Table Entry 3 	
55
	
Journey Event Table Entry 4 	
56
	
Journey Event Table Entry 5 	
57
	
Journey Event Table Entry 6 	
58
	
Journey Event Table Entry 7 	
59
	
Journey Event Table Entry 8 	
60
	
Journey Event Table Entry 9 	
61
	
Journey Event Table Entry 10 	
62
	
Journey Event Table Entry 11 	
63
	
Journey Event Table Entry 12 	
64
K
(The) Kitchens	
35
L
(Types of) Letter	
40
Letter Delivery Check	
41
(To the) Lonely Mountain	
38
M
Matthew Mugwort	
18
(The) Melancholy of Combe	
26
Mountebank	
51
N
New-town	
20
(A) Night at the Prancing Pony	
35
O
(Bluebell Wood) Oakmen	
47
(The) Ogre of Midgewater	
49
Old Bones and Skin	
66
	
Adventuring Phase	
66
	
Alarums and Incursions	
69
	
Ambushing the Old Troll	
78
	
(The) Battle of the Black Barrow	
85
	
Battling the Old Troll	
74

--- PAGE 127 ---
127
Index
	
Catching the Troll	
76
	
(A) Dwarf in the Company	
81
	
Entombed!	
85
	
Epilogue - Of Earth and Water,
	
Blood and Bone	
86
	
Expectations	
78
	
(The) Eye of Mordor	
67
	
(A) Father’s Wisdom	
71
	
(The) Final Audience Check	
70
	
Finding the King’s Chair	
82
	
(A) Foe Beyond Any of You	
74
	
Fog on the South Downs	
76
	
(The) Footpad	
75
	
(The) Ghost of the Graveyard	
70
	
Gror’s Treachery	
84
	
Hidden Information	
80
	
Interaction	
70
	
Into the Marshes	
82
	
Introduction	
70
	
Introduction and Interaction	
78
	
I’ve a Mind to Dine on thee Now	
78
	
(The) Lower Barrow	
83
	
Many Onlookers	
73
	
Motivation	
78
	
Old Timeas’ Grave	
72
	
Old Timeas’ Shady Past	
68
	
Old Troll’s Treasure	
79
	
Other Rumours	
68
	
Outcomes	
78
	
Parleying with a Troll	
78
	
Part Eight - Though Dead He Be,
	
It Belongs To Me!	
83
	
Part Five - Up Came Tom With His
	
Big Boots On	
77
	
Part Four - Over the Misty Mounds	
74
	
Part One - Stories by the Fire	
67
	
Part Seven - Finding the Barrow	
82
	
Part Six - Old Skins and Sins	
80
	
Part Three - As Should Be A-lying In
	
Graveyard	
72
	
Part Two - The Nephew’s Tale	
70
	
Pursuing the Old Troll	
74
	
Questioning Nick Heatherton	
72
	
(The) Ranger	
76
	
Search for the Black Barrow	
82
	
Searching the Graveyard	
72
	
(The) Scandal of the Heathertons	
67
	
(The) Shadow of the Past	
69
	
(The) Smoke-letters	
81
	
Staking out the Graveyard	
73
	
Stealing from the Troll	
78
	
(The) Sullen Dwarf	
69
	
Tomas Heatherton	
71
	
Tomas the Treacherous	
81
	
Tom’s Folly	
77
	
(The) Trail of the Troll	
75
	
Treasure Table	
79, 84
	
Trouble in Bree	
82
	
Unlocking the Map’s Secrets	
81
	
(The) Upper Barrow	
83
	
Who’s in the Common-room?	
68
Old-town	
19
(The) Old Troll	
50
Oswald Breeker, the Squire of Combe	
26
Out of Tharbad	
38
P
(The) Prancing Pony	
30
(The) Prancing Pony in the Tale of Years	
30
(The) Prancing Pony Map	
32-33
Prices at The Pony	
34
Private Chambers	
35
Private Rooms	
34
Q
(The) Quarry	
17
R
(The) Roads	
10
Rooms for the Night	
34
Ruby Boffin	
11
S
(The) Small Things	
52
(The) Smial of Staddle	
24
Stables	
34
Staddle	
23
(The) Staff	
31
Strange Men, Strange Roads	
87
	
(The) Accused	
108
	
Adventuring Phase	
87
	
Another Shadow of the Past	
89
	
(An) Audience with the Elves	
103
	
Battling the Wolves	
102
	
Berelas’ Confession	
107
	
Berelas, the Ringbearer	
98
	
To Bree!	
105
	
(The) Caravan	
93
	
(The) Caravan and the Wolves	
102
	
(A) Caravan Divided	
104
	
(The) Cold Shade	
100
	
Confronting the Caravan	
99
	
(The) Cottage	
104
	
Deeper Secrets	
92
	
Departure of the Trading Caravan	
89
	
(The) Dwarves	
106, 111
	
Edoric, the Guide	
94, 111
	
Eoin, the Bree-lander	
95, 111
	
Epilogue - The Assault on Gorlanc’s Fort	 111
	
Expectations	
99
	
Final Audience Check	
100, 103
	
Finding the Murderer	
91
	
Forcing a Confrontation	
105
	
Gorlanc’s Last Stroke	
111
	
Healing the Rushlights	
104
	
Hiding from the Wolves	
102
	
Hirlinon of Gondor, Follower of Gorlanc	 97
	
If the Player-Heroes…	
106
	
(The) Innkeeper	
88
	
Interaction	
100, 103, 109
	
Introduction	
100, 103, 109
	
(The) Jail at Bree	
108
	
Mallor’s Pack	
88
	
Meeting the Reeve	
108
	
Mirabar of Dorwinion	
99
	
(The) Missing Ranger	
89
	
Motivations	
99
	
Motivations and Expectations	
103, 108
	
Narvi the Young	
97
	
Observation & Investigation	
93
	
Other Clues	
90
	
Outcome	
109
	
(The) Pack	
91
	
Part Eight - The Choices of Mistress 
	
Berelas	
110
	
Part Four - Strangers in the Woods	
102
	
Part Five - Not to Strike Without Need	
104
	
Part One - At the Forsaken Inn	
87
	
Part Seven - Before the Reeve	
107
	
Part Six - Knives in Bree	
105
	
Part Three - The Trader’s Caravan	
92
	
Part Two - The Body in the Well	
90
	
Questioning the Innkeeper	
90
	
Recovering Tarry-Mack	
90
	
(The) Rest of the Caravan	
111
	
(The) Ring of Seven Jewels	
92
	
Searching By Daylight	
89
	
(The) Size of the Caravan	
88
	
Spying & Eavesdropping	
92
	
Strangers at the Inn	
88
	
Uproar in Bree	
106
	
Using the Ring	
104
	
Using the Ring of Seven Jewels	
110
	
Vig, Brother of Vogar	
95
	
Vogar, Brother of Vig	
96
	
Whispers in the Commons	
105
	
Wild Beasts	
101
Swamp Goblins	
48
T
Tad Tillfield	
21
(The) Tale of Years	
6
(The) Taproom	
34
(A) Thief in the North Fields	
37
(The) Thieves’ Glen	
26
Things to do while in Bree	
39
Two-headed Troll	
48
Twyc Greenleaf, Reeve of Bree	
20
W
Western Bree-land	
12
White Wolf of the North	
48
(The) Wood-castle	
27

--- PAGE 128 ---
OPEN GAME LICENSE Version 1.0a 
The following text is the property of Wizards of the Coast, Inc. and is 
Copyright 2000 Wizards of the Coast, Inc ("Wizards"). All Rights Reserved. 
1. Definitions: (a)"Contributors" means the copyright and/or trademark 
owners who have contributed Open Game Content; (b)"Derivative 
Material" means copyrighted material including derivative works 
and translations (including into other computer languages), potation, 
modification, correction, addition, extension, upgrade, improvement, 
compilation, abridgment or other form in which an existing work may 
be recast, transformed or adapted; (c) "Distribute" means to reproduce, 
license, rent, lease, sell, broadcast, publicly display, transmit or otherwise 
distribute; (d)"Open Game Content" means the game mechanic and 
includes the methods, procedures, processes and routines to the extent 
such content does not embody the Product Identity and is an enhancement 
over the prior art and any additional content clearly identified as Open 
Game Content by the Contributor, and means any work covered by this 
License, including translations and derivative works under copyright law, 
but specifically excludes Product Identity. (e) "Product Identity" means 
product and product line names, logos and identifying marks including 
trade dress; artifacts; creatures characters; stories, storylines, plots, 
thematic elements, dialogue, incidents, language, artwork, symbols, 
designs, depictions, likenesses, formats, poses, concepts, themes and 
graphic, photographic and other visual or audio representations; names 
and descriptions of characters, spells, enchantments, personalities, 
teams, personas, likenesses and special abilities; places, locations, 
environments, creatures, equipment, magical or supernatural abilities or 
effects, logos, symbols, or graphic designs; and any other trademark or 
registered trademark clearly identified as Product identity by the owner 
of the Product Identity, and which specifically excludes the Open Game 
Content; (f) "Trademark" means the logos, names, mark, sign, motto, 
designs that are  used by a Contributor to identify itself or its products 
or the associated products contributed to the Open Game License by the 
Contributor (g) "Use", "Used" or "Using" means to use, Distribute, copy, 
edit, format, modify, translate and otherwise create Derivative Material 
of Open Game Content. (h) "You" or "Your" means the licensee in terms of 
this agreement. 
2. The License: This License applies to any Open Game Content that 
contains a notice indicating that the Open Game Content may only be 
Used under and in terms of this License. You must affix such a notice 
to any Open Game Content that you Use. No terms may be added to or 
subtracted from this License except as described by the License itself. No 
other terms or conditions may be applied to any Open Game Content 
distributed using this License. 
3.Offer and Acceptance: By Using the Open Game Content You indicate 
Your acceptance of the terms of this License. 
4. Grant and Consideration: In consideration for agreeing to use this 
License, the Contributors grant You a perpetual, worldwide, royalty free, 
non exclusive license with the exact terms of this License to Use, the Open 
Game Content. 
5.Representation of Authority to Contribute: If You are contributing 
original material as Open Game Content, You represent that Your 
Contributions are Your original creation and/or You have sufficient rights 
to grant the rights conveyed by this License. 
6.Notice of License Copyright: You must update the COPYRIGHT NOTICE 
portion of this License to include the exact text of the COPYRIGHT NOTICE 
of any Open Game Content You are copying, modifying or distributing, 
and You must add the title, the copyright date, and the copyright holder's 
name to the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any original Open Game Content you 
Distribute. 
7. Use of Product Identity: You agree not to Use any Product Identity, 
including as an indication as to compatibility, except as expressly licensed 
in another, independent Agreement with the owner of each element of that 
Product Identity. You agree not to indicate compatibility or co adaptability 
with any Trademark or Registered Trademark in conjunction with a work 
containing Open Game Content except as expressly licensed in another, 
independent Agreement with the owner of such Trademark or Registered 
Trademark. The use of any Product Identity in Open Game Content does 
not constitute a challenge to the ownership of that Product Identity. The 
owner of any Product Identity used in Open Game Content shall retain all 
rights, title and interest in and to that Product Identity. 
8. Identification: If you distribute Open Game Content You must clearly 
indicate which portions of the work that you are distributing are Open 
Game Content. 
9. Updating the License: Wizards or its designated Agents may publish 
updated versions of this License. You may use any authorized version 
of this License to copy, modify and distribute any Open Game Content 
originally distributed under any version of this License. 
10. Copy of this License: You MUST include a copy of this License with 
every copy of the Open Game Content You Distribute. 
11. Use of Contributor Credits: You may not market or advertise the Open 
Game Content using the name of any Contributor unless You have written 
permission from the Contributor to do so. 
12. Inability to Comply: If it is impossible for You to comply with any of the 
terms of this License with respect to some or all of the Open Game Content 
due to statute, judicial order, or governmental regulation then You may 
not Use any Open Game Material so affected. 
13. Termination: This License will terminate automatically if You fail 
to comply with all terms herein and fail to cure such breach within 30 
days of becoming aware of the breach. All sublicenses shall survive the 
termination of this License. 
14. Reformation: If any provision of this License is held to be 
unenforceable, such provision shall be reformed only to the extent 
necessary to make it enforceable. 
15. COPYRIGHT NOTICE 
Open Game License v 1.0a Copyright 2000, Wizards of the Coast, LLC. 
System Reference Document 5.1 Copyright 2016, Wizards of the Coast, 
Inc.; Authors Mike Mearls, Jeremy Crawford, Chris Perkins, Rodney 
Thompson, Peter Lee, James Wyatt, Robert J. Schwalb, Bruce R. Cordell, 
Chris Sims, and Steve Townshend, based on original material by E. Gary 
Gygax and Dave Arneson. 
Adventures in Middle-earth Player’s Guide Copyright 2016 Cubicle 7 
Entertainment Ltd/Sophisticated Games Ltd; Authors: James Brown, Paul 
Butler, Walt Ciechanowksi, Steve Emmott, Gareth Ryder-Hanrahan, Jon 
Hodgson, Shane Ivey, Andrew Kenrick, TS Luikart, Dominic McDowall, 
Francesco Nepitello, James Spahn, Ken Spencer.
Adventures in Middle-earth Loremaster’s Guide Copyright 2017 
Cubicle 7 Entertainment Ltd/Sophisticated Games Ltd; Authors: Walt 
Ciechanowski, Steve Emmott, Jon Hodgson, TS Luikart, Dominic 
McDowall, Francesco Nepitello, David Rea, Jacob Rodgers, Gareth 
Ryder-Hanrahan and Ken Spencer.
Adventures in Middle-earth Rivendell Region Guide Copyright 2018 
Cubicle 7 Entertainment Ltd/Sophisticated Games Ltd; Authors: Francesco 
Nepitello, Shane Ivey, Andrew Kenrick, Thomas Morwinsky, Jacob 
Rodgers, James M. Spahn, Amado Angulo and Marco Maggi.
Adventures in Middle-earth Bree-land Region Guide Copyright 2018 
Cubicle 7 Entertainment Ltd/Sophisticated Games Ltd; Authors: Gareth 
Ryder-Hanrahan, Jon Hodgson, Francesco Nepitello and Jacob Rodgers.
END OF LICENSE