--- PAGE 1 ---
BY
WOLFGANG BAUR AND DAN DILLON
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 2 ---
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 3 ---
Design: Wolfgang Baur & Dan Dillon 
Editor: Kim Mohan
Cover Art: Marcel Mercado
Interior Art: George Johnstone, Marcel Mercado, Addison Rankin,  
Bryan Syme, Egil Thompson
Cartography: Sean Macdonald
Art Director & Graphic Designer: Marc Radle
Publisher: Wolfgang Baur
With special thanks to Ben McFarland for his work on an earlier edition of this adventure.
Midgard and Kobold Press are trademarks of Open Design. All rights reserved. 
Product Identity: The following items are hereby identified as Product Identity, as defined in the Open Game License version 
1.0a, Section 1(e), and are not Open Content: All trademarks, registered trademarks, proper names (characters, place names, 
new deities, etc.), dialogue, plots, story elements, locations, characters, artwork, sidebars, and trade dress. (Elements that have 
previously been designated as Open Game Content are not included in this declaration.) 
Open Game Content: The Open content in this adventure includes the new monsters and new magic items. All other material 
is Product Identity, especially place names, character names, locations, story elements, and fiction. No other portion of this 
work may be reproduced in any form without permission. 
ISBN: 978-1-936781-79-9
Printed in China
©2019 Open Design. All rights reserved.
www.koboldpress.com
An Adventure of Dangerous Shadows for a  
Distinguished Party of 7th- to 10th-Level Characters
Credits
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 4 ---
3
Contents
INTRODUCTION...........................................................................4
	
	The Shadow Courts...............................................................................4
	
	Introduction to the New Edition........................................................5
	
	Adventure Summary.............................................................................5
ACT I: A CHILL IN THE AIR........................................................6
	
	Act I, Scene 1: The Assassination........................................................6
	
	Act I, Scene 2: Disquiet in the City...................................................11
	
	Act I, Scene 3: A Clear Message........................................................13
	
	Act I, Scene 4: Seeking the Hidden  
	
	 	Ambassador......................................................................................15
	
	Act I, Scene 5: Dogs at the Door.......................................................16
	
	Act I, Scene 6: Finding the Shadow  
	
	 	Road Ritual.......................................................................................24
ACT II: THE INVISIBLE COURTS............................................38
	
	A Fey Welcome.....................................................................................39
	
	Pumping up the Atmosphere............................................................39
	
	Where Is Everyone?.............................................................................40
	
	Status and Prestige among the Fey...................................................40
	
	A Helpful Squire...................................................................................44
	
	Locations and Conditions in the Court...........................................46
	
	Gossip and Rumors.............................................................................57
	
	Act II, Scene 1: Suit at the Door........................................................60
	
	Act II, Scene 2: Tripping and Thievery ...........................................62
	
	Act II, Scene 3: Unleash the Hounds................................................63
	
	Act II, Scene 4: The Blue Horse and the Kennels...........................65
	
	Act II, Scene 5: The Court Musician................................................67
	
	Act II, Scene 6: The Ravens in the Court.........................................68
	
	Act II, Scene 7: The Grey Ladies Spin..............................................71
	
	Act II, Scene 8: The Blind Seer...........................................................74
ACT III: THE HONORED GUESTS...........................................77
	
	Fey Names and Types..........................................................................77
	
	Conditions in the Court.....................................................................82
	
	Winning a Courtesan or Consort’s Favor........................................84
	
	Act III, Scene 1: Entering the Royal Halls.......................................87
	
	Act III, Scene 2: The Courtesans’ Dance.........................................88
	
	Act III, Scene 3: Winning the Sapphire  
	
	 	Courtesan Maraya...........................................................................96
	
	Act III, Scene 4: Dueling Season.......................................................98
	
	Act III, Scene 5: Akyishigal, Demon  
	
	 	Lord of Roaches............................................................................ 107
	
	Act III, Scene 6: The Black Prince  
	
	 	and His Hounds............................................................................ 112
	
	Act III, Scene 7: The Hunting Lodge: 
	
	Act III, Scene 8: Queen’s Attention................................................ 120
ACT IV: ROYAL AUDIENCES AND TREACHERY..............122
	
	Act IV, Scene 1: Meeting the Queen.............................................. 122
	
	Act IV, Scene 2: Welcome to the Labyrinth................................. 127
	
	Act IV, Scene 3: The Hedge Dryad................................................. 130
	
	Act IV, Scene 4: Lost Children  
	
	 	and Eyeless Beggars..................................................................... 132
	
	Act IV, Scene 5: Eyes in the Dark .................................................. 132
	
	Act IV, Scene 6: Tower of the Moon.............................................. 136
	CONCLUSION THE RETURNING MORTALS.....................145
Sorreminx
Roach Knight
Black Prince
Brightspur
Chelessfield
Shadow Realm
Revich
Yngress the Red
Moonlit King
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 5 ---
4
ELITISM AS VILLAINY
In American life, elitism is a crime, but in feudal 
times it was just the natural order of things. Nobles 
ruled, bishops decreed excommunications and 
forgiveness, and peasants and merchants sucked it 
up. Yet nowhere in most fantasy roleplaying games 
does class and status show up. I decided that Courts 
of the Shadow Fey was going to do something with 
this theme in addition to the more obvious themes 
of demons and shadow-related power sources. The 
design pivot I chose was to give class and status a 
metric: you can truly measure status and prestige 
in this adventure, just as you can attach a value to 
Wisdom or to a spell’s level. (The wider Midgard 
campaign setting adopted this metric as well, though 
it finds less use in dungeon crawling than it does in 
urban or courtly arenas.)
Elves, in my mind, have often been underrated as 
villains. They are genteel, civilized creatures who live 
longer than, and look down their noses at, smelly 
barbarians and bearded, beer-swilling dwarves. They 
are elitists who—and this makes it so much worse—
are probably right when they claim that other races 
cannot lay claim to the elves’ high culture, deeper 
knowledge of magic, or perfection in the arts. They’re 
snobs, and rightfully so.
This snootiness drives players apeshit, which makes 
it a perfect attitude for villains to display. Experienced 
heroes—especially those coming into their own 
“sweet spot” in personal power—are masters of 
Introduction
Some say the world is white and featureless. Others say 
the world is a black abyss. 
Half black, half white. Half sorrow, half joy. Half living, 
half a ghost. The Realm of Shadow is neither one thing 
nor another; it is a place of halves. One might think of 
it as half regret, half done, half dead. But it is just as fair 
to say half rich, half cured, half won. The shadows are a 
place of neither pure evil nor pure good, but only that 
muddle where true balance lies, where lives are rich and 
sad and complicated. Half villains and half heroes, who 
strive but never win. But who never quite lose.
The Shadow Courts
Welcome to the Realm of Shadow. You’re halfway home. 
The shadow fey maintain two seasons and two 
forms of rule. The season of the Winter Court is the 
crueler one, ruled by the Moonlit King, and it is a rare 
occurrence and often a violent one as well. The Summer 
Court, ruled by the Queen of Night and Magic, is far 
more prevalent, with a gentler air and manner. Both 
monarchs and their nobles dwell in the Shadow Realm. 
The members of these courts are referred to generally 
as lords and ladies (by those who fear them) and more 
precisely as the shadow fey, or scáthsidhe. 
For almost one hundred years, all this was of little 
interest to the burghers of Zobeck. The shadow fey 
remained involved in their own affairs, ignoring the 
wars, sieges, royal marriages, and petty rivalries of the 
human kingdoms. Until now. 
melee and lords of magic. Telling them they’re not the 
best at something and then showing them a ladder 
of Status ranks to climb is like throwing red meat to 
a lion. Which is why I used this idea as part of the 
framework for a courtly adventure: the characters’ 
success is determined not only by exploration and 
combat, but also by their ability to “work the system,” 
earning Status and the privileges that come with 
it. If the likelihood of an invite from the prince is 
connected to a point system, the result is a more 
effective adventure at the relatively low cost of some 
record-keeping. This adventure puts snobbery and 
status on a mechanical foundation. 
So here we are. This is the best possible setting I 
could build for the shadow fey, the hothouse world 
of the nobles and their servants, featuring deadly 
combat, dangerous liaisons, and a set of hurdles 
that can keep a party looking for the right key to 
understanding the fey’s snobbish attitude—once 
they earn the proper achievements. It seems to have 
worked well in playtest, and I hope it inspires your 
players to expand their gaming horizons a little as well. 
My profound thanks to all the patrons who 
supported this work. I’ve wanted to write an 
Amber‑meets-the‑Fey adventure for ten years, and 
your patronage made it possible. I hope you find the 
results to your liking.
—Wolfgang Baur
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 6 ---
5
The adventure begins when the fey court turns from 
one season to another, and the Winter Court briefly 
holds sway just as a valuable piece of information 
reaches the king’s ear. After a century of neglecting 
the mortal world, the Winter King takes the throne 
following the return of one of the shadow fey’s hidden 
ambassadors from the Free City of Zobeck, when the 
emissary revealed to His Majesty that the arrangement 
with House Stross was now null and void. Apparently, 
says he, the humans overthrew their king and now rule 
through some council of merchants. The Moonlit King—
unpredictable at the best of times—is enraged and 
shocked by this news. If the Stross bloodline no longer 
rules the city, then surely possession of the place reverts 
to its prior lords. Those lords are the shadow fey, in the 
body of their king and queen, and they want it back. 
And in fact, events unfold as the king commands, 
at least at first. In some ways, the city does rightfully 
revert to the fey, who originally ruled it. They act as 
though their word is the law, and they appear more 
and more often on the streets. If things continue in this 
vein, the humans and others in Zobeck will live only at 
their sufferance. 
The Winter Court’s season of rule ends shortly after 
the Moonlit King sends his ambassador and servants 
along the Shadow Road to Zobeck. During the rule 
of the Summer Court, the Queen of Night and Magic 
maintains his policies and delivers a set of edicts to 
the city. At first, these new laws are annoying but 
manageable, but the edicts quickly become more and 
more onerous. Seemingly, the fey are here to stay. And 
they mean business.
Why are the fey suddenly interested in the affairs 
of other races? Perhaps the party can find a way to 
straighten all this out. . . .
A NOTE ON DESIGN
The plot is a “bucketed” one, with five stages that run 
sequentially. The goal was to create separate segments, 
acts, or chapters, each with its own mood, short 
story arc, and resolution. The roughly thirty possible 
encounters can take a party from 7th level to 11th level, 
though it’s expected that not every party will experience 
every encounter. 
Each section is fairly loose, and once the party meets 
the relevant requirement, a new set of encounters 
becomes available. The older opportunities largely 
disappear, and new challenges arise. The only figures 
who are relevant throughout are the king and queen, 
although their influence is felt largely by reputation in 
the early chapters.
Introduction to the New Edition
At the time I wrote Courts for 4th Edition, Kickstarter 
wasn’t a thing, and Kobold Press was barely scraping by. 
Things have changed, and the shadow fey have appeared 
in many new forms as villains, becoming major 
antagonists in the 5th Edition version of Midgard, and 
having their own set of entries as monsters in the Tome 
of Beasts and in the Creature Codex. 
Apparently, snobby elves really do irritate players, and 
their run as villains in the world is going to be a long 
one. My profound thanks to Dan Dillon for wrangling 
the new edition monsters into shape and taking a 
much-needed hammer to the finale and fine-tuning 
the firebird hunt. Thanks to Marcel Mercado and Marc 
Radle for making the new edition look amazing. 
—Wolfgang Baur
October 2018
Adventure Summary
The first stage of the adventure involves two 
assassination attempts: one against a priest of the Sun 
God, the second against the characters. In between, the 
party notices the strange doings of the fey who arrive in 
Zobeck and begin making demands of the population, 
creating disruption as the existing authorities try to 
assert themselves against the capricious and sometimes 
deadly force used by the shadow fey. 
The characters are invited to visit the fey’s hidden 
ambassador, who is secretly hoping that the mayhem 
arising from the shadow fey’s rule over the city can be 
avoided, although he is much too loyal to say anything 
too clearly. The party learns the ritual to open a fey 
Shadow Road and leaves the city behind in hopes of 
traveling to the courts of the shadow fey. After a couple 
of hostile encounters on the road, the party arrives at the 
courts in the Shadow Realm only to find them apparently 
abandoned. The characters can investigate, fight some 
animated guardian constructs, and gradually peel back 
the layers of illusion that hide the courts from casual 
trespassers. They might speak to goblin servants, visit 
the stables, and become entangled in matters involving 
the lower factions of the courts. If the characters amass 
enough prestige, they are invited to meet more and more 
nobles, and are eventually allowed out of the Lower Halls 
and allowed to mingle with the upper crust.
As their Status improves, the characters face new 
opportunities. They are invited to the Swan Festival 
held by the courtesans, whose dances and flirtations 
could prove dangerous. They might meet the Black 
Prince, the Demon Lord of Roaches, Baron Suvid, and 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 7 ---
6
other members of the nobility. And they will certainly 
be challenged to a duel, seduced by a succubus, given 
the opportunity to hunt down the mythic firebird, and 
be granted a lantern dragonette as a mark of favor—
and, if they choose, they can pursue the hand of one of 
the courtesans.
All this activity raises their Status and eventually gets 
the characters an invitation from the Queen of Night 
and Magic, Her Majesty Sarastra, who grants them an 
audience and tells them they may discuss the matter 
of Zobeck’s rulership—and their own fate—with the 
Moonlit King. They are sent off to find him in the Spiral 
Maze, where he lives in a tower protected by traps, an 
ancient eye golem, and shadow beasts. Meeting the 
Moonlit King can be either a diplomatic mission or 
a combat encounter, although the king’s mental state 
means that Charisma (Persuasion) is a frail reed indeed. 
He might grant the characters what they wish and send 
them on their way back to the mortal world, or they 
might need to defeat him and his devils in combat first. 
On their way out of the maze, they might again meet the 
Demon Lord of Roaches, who offers them great rewards 
in exchange for the king’s Orb of Rule. The party must 
decide whether to retain that source of power (and have 
one of its number become a member of the courts), 
trade it to the demon lord, or give it to the queen in 
exchange for riches and the return of the city. No one 
said the choices would be easy.
The king is dead—long live the Moonlit King!
Act I: A Chill in the Air
The wind is chilly with the promise of winter, the trade 
fair has closed up for the year, and the last of the dwarf 
caravans have struck home for the Ironcrags before the 
passes are snowed in. The city settles into the quieter 
rhythm of late autumn and awaits winter’s first frost. 
Act I, Scene 1:  
The Assassination
The characters are in town when things go wrong. 
Shadow fey toughs are threatening Oleg Khandarc, a 
priest of the sun god Khors, who has been warned to 
stay away from the temple of Svarog where the shrine 
to Khors stands. The characters are called in by Misha 
Jorelik, a novice priest who slipped away to get help.
A young man wearing the yellow tunic of the sun god 
stumbles into the tavern. “Come quickly!” he says. 
“Thugs are threatening the priest of the sun, and 
blood may spill on holy ground!”
The first player to ask a question gets an answer; then 
Misha says, “I must find help, not gabble. Follow me!” 
and runs off. If the characters do not follow, the priest 
and his acolyte are both found dead not long after, and 
the temple grounds are marred with blood. The holy 
ground must be reconsecrated. 
If the characters follow Misha back to the temple, they 
hear shouts coming from inside as they approach. And 
they see a piece of parchment, held by a knife driven 
into the enormous doors in Temple Square. 
Written in Elvish, the note reads:
Let it be known to all who come here: the charter of 
the Temple of Perun and Khors is revoked by order of 
the Ambassador Thelamandrine. None may enter, visit, 
chant, keep vigil, or worship here unless and until the 
priesthood conforms to the new practices. Those who 
violate this order are subject to summary execution or 
removal by the forces of the Realm. 
	 	
By his hand, 
	 	
His Excellency Glaninin Thelamandrine, Hidden 
	 	
Ambassador-In-Extraordinary of the Winter Court 
	 	
to the Fey City of Zobeck
ENCOUNTER CHOICES AND DIFFICULTY
Throughout the adventure, encounters are provided 
at varying categories of difficulty so each one can be 
tailored to the party’s capabilities or circumstances. 
The difficulty assessments are based on a party of 
four characters, who start at 7th level in Act I and 
advance in level as the adventure progresses.
In addition, this edition of Courts of the Shadow Fey 
provides alternate encounters for higher-level play, 
and for various levels of ability. When you see a 
notation such as “9th-level characters” or the like, this 
is a modification to the encounter that makes it more 
of a challenge for characters of higher-than‑expected 
level. In other words, Courts can be played with a 
party of 7th-level characters at the start, and you can 
choose Easy, Medium or Deadly encounters for them, 
but you could also begin with higher-level characters 
and keep things challenging for those more 
accomplished adventurers by choosing more difficult 
encounters when those options are available.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 8 ---
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 9 ---
8
After the characters enter the temple, read or 
paraphrase the following: 
The shrine is filled with illumination from a brightly 
glowing statue of the sun god, currently despoiled 
by shifting shadows. Elves in black cloaks are in a 
threatening position near the priest, who stands 
defiant against them. Pews fill the far end of the 
chamber, and the priest stands under a white dome 
supported by eight pillars. He seems calm. “You do 
not belong here,” says the priest. “I demand you leave, 
in the names of Svarog and Khors.” 
	 “If you will not listen to the city’s rightful ruler,” says 
one of the fey, “you will pay the price.” The elves 
advance toward the priest, their blades raised as they 
move to cut him down.
The shadow fey rakes (and the hound, if present) 
threaten the priest at the start, while the shadow fey 
cutthroats hide in the shadows (and thus should not be 
placed on the grid, if one is being used).
Assuming the party interferes, they might save the 
priest Oleg and the acolyte Misha from certain death. 
The priest (AC 13, saves +0 Dex, +1 Con) can take three 
hits from the rakes; the acolyte (AC 10, saves +0 Dex, 
+0 Con) dies after just two hits. If the hound is present, 
its bite counts as two hits, and its Frost Breath counts 
as three hits on a failed saving throw and one hit on a 
successful save.
ENCOUNTER CHOICES
Medium—2 shadow fey cutthroats, 1 shadow fey rake
Hard—2 shadow fey cutthroats, 2 shadow fey rakes
Deadly—1 hound of the night, 2 shadow fey cutthroats, 
2 shadow fey rakes
Illumination. The statue of Khors is well lit, although 
a creature who succeeds on a DC 13 Wisdom 
(Perception) check notices a strange shadowy 
substance flitting across it. The spaces near the 
curtains and along the walls are unusually dim and 
lightly obscured, certainly sufficient for shadow fey to 
hide in.
Fire Pit. A creature that enters the small fire pit or starts 
its turn there takes 5 (2d4) fire damage. 
Pews. The rows of wooden pews are difficult terrain 
for someone moving perpendicular across the pews 
but normal terrain for someone moving along their 
length. A successful DC 15 Dexterity (Acrobatics) 
check allows a character to run across the backs of the 
pews at normal speed.
Shadow Fey Youths
Young shadow fey are as arrogant and cocky as they are 
graceful and skilled. Maturing in a society that places 
emphasis on success and ambition, young shadow fey 
aggressively seek to raise themselves in the courts. For 
some, this means mastering the intrigues of court life 
through wit and charm while, for others, it is a life of 
arcane study. For most eager shadow fey, however, the 
only path to success is the way of the blade. Shadow fey 
culture values dueling as an art, and there is no shortage 
of ambitious fey who seek to master it.
Shadow Fey Cutthroat
Medium humanoid (elf), neutral evil
Armor Class 13 (leather armor)
Hit Points 33 (6d8 + 6)
Speed 30 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
10 (+1)	 17 (+3)	
12 (+1)	
14 (+2)	
14 (+2)	 15 (+2)
Saving Throws Dex +5, Int +4
Skills Deception +4, Insight +4, Perception +4, Stealth +7
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 14
Languages Common, Elvish, Umbral
Challenge 3 (700 XP)
Cunning Action. On each of its turns, the shadow fey can 
use a bonus action to take the Dash, Disengage, or Hide 
action.
Fey Ancestry. The shadow fey has advantage on saving 
throws against being charmed, and magic can’t put it to 
sleep.
Innate Spellcasting. The shadow fey’s innate spellcasting 
ability is Charisma. It can cast the following spell 
innately, requiring no material components: 
2/day: misty step (when in shadows, dim light, or 
darkness only)
Sneak Attack (1/Turn). The shadow fey deals an extra 
10 (3d6) damage when it hits a target with a weapon 
attack and has advantage on the attack roll, or when 
the target is within 5 feet of an ally of the shadow fey 
that isn’t incapacitated and the shadow fey doesn’t have 
disadvantage on the attack roll.
Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the shadow 
fey has disadvantage on attack rolls and on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks that rely on sight.
Traveler in Darkness. The shadow fey has advantage 
on Intelligence (Arcana) checks made to know about 
shadow roads and shadow magic spells or items.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 10 ---
9
ACTIONS
Multiattack. The shadow fey makes two rapier attacks.
Rapier. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 7 (1d8 + 3) piercing damage and the target 
must make a DC 11 Constitution saving throw, taking 10 
(3d6) poison damage on a failed save, or half as much 
damage on a successful one.
Shortbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, range 
100/400 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) piercing damage 
and the target must make a DC 11 Constitution saving 
throw, taking 10 (3d6) poison damage on a failed save, 
or half as much damage on a successful one.
Shadow Fey Rake
Medium humanoid (elf), neutral evil
Armor Class 16 (studded leather)
Hit Points 104 (16d8 + 32)
Speed 30 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
12 (+1)	 18 (+4)	
14 (+2)	
11 (+0)	
10 (+0)	 15 (+2)
Saving Throws Dex +6, Cha +4
Skills Acrobatics +6, Arcana +2, Intimidation +4
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 10
Languages Common, Elvish, Umbral
Challenge 4 (1,100 XP)
Fey Ancestry. The shadow fey has advantage on saving 
throws against being charmed, and magic can’t put it  
to sleep.
Innate Spellcasting. The shadow fey’s innate  
spellcasting ability is Charisma. It can cast the following 
spell innately, requiring no material components:
2/day: misty step (when in shadows,  
dim light, or darkness only)
Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the shadow 
fey has disadvantage on attack rolls and on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks that rely on sight.
Traveler in Darkness. The shadow fey has advantage 
on Intelligence (Arcana) checks made to know about 
shadow roads and shadow magic spells or items.
ACTIONS
Multiattack. The shadow fey makes two melee attacks. 
Rapier. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft.,  
one target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) piercing damage plus  
7 (2d6) poison damage.
REACTIONS
Parry. The shadow fey rake adds 2 to its AC against one 
melee attack that would hit it. To do so, the rake must 
see the target and be wielding a melee weapon.
Hound of the Night
Large monstrosity, neutral evil
Armor Class 16 (natural armor)
Hit Points 112 (15d10 + 30)
Speed 50 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
20 (+5)	 16 (+3)	
14 (+2)	
9 (–1)	
14 (+2)	 10 (+0)
Saving Throws Dex +6, Con +5, Wis +5
Skills Intimidation +3, Perception +5, Stealth +6
Damage Vulnerabilities fire
Damage Immunities cold
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 16
Languages understands Elvish and Umbral but can’t speak
Challenge 5 (1,800 XP)
Blood Scent. A hound of the night can follow a scent 
through phase shifts, ethereal movement, dimension 
door, and fey steps of any kind. Teleport and plane shift 
are beyond its ability to follow.
Innate Spellcasting. The hound’s innate spellcasting 
ability is Wisdom. It can innately cast the following spell, 
requiring no material components: 
At will: dimension door
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 11 ---
10
ACTIONS
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 21 (3d10 + 5) piercing damage, and the 
target must succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving throw 
or be knocked prone.
Frost Breath (Recharge 5–6). The hound exhales a 15-
foot cone of frost. Each creature in the cone must make 
a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw, taking 44 (8d10) cold 
damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a 
successful one.
Shadow fey cutthroats are fey who do not follow the 
rules of honorable dueling or who have sold their 
services to the highest bidder instead of playing the 
games of court. As efficient and dishonorable killers, 
they rely on stealth to stalk targets, preferring to strike 
from the shadows and unleash their sneak attacks. 
Shadow fey rakes constantly press the fight. They use 
misty step to gain advantageous position, and to strike at 
more vulnerable but less accessible targets. 
If present, the hound attacks the acolyte with its 
bite, and then turns on any interlopers so the rakes or 
cutthroats can finish the priest. If possible, it aims its 
breath weapon to hit the priest and the characters but 
avoid the shadow fey. 
The assassins flee when both the priest and the acolyte 
are dead, or when three of the fey can no longer fight. 
If the characters demand their surrender, they consider 
the option only if they have completed their mission by 
killing the clergy. They’re confident they can escape any 
mundane prison easily, and so might go willingly. If it is 
present, the hound simply uses dimension door to escape 
the premises.
SHADOW FEY LORE
When players ask what their characters know about the 
shadow fey, you can ask them to make an Intelligence 
check for general knowledge. Provide information as 
described below, or use a helpful NPC to convey it when 
appropriate.
Intelligence (Arcana) or Intelligence (Nature) DC 12—The 
hierarchy of the shadow fey is ever changing. Young 
shadow fey, especially, rise and fall quickly. Ruthless 
and determined, they rely on dueling and backstabbing 
to curry favor with the nobles of their court.
Intelligence (Arcana) or Intelligence (Nature) DC 17—
Not all shadow fey play along with duels and court 
politics. Many, instead, hone their talents toward 
more murderous ends as assassins. This makes them 
indispensible to the court while not always subject to 
its dramatic whims.
Intelligence (Arcana) or Intelligence (Nature) DC 
22—Shadow fey dislike either sunlight or complete 
darkness—they prefer twilight whenever possible, 
though their darkvision makes darkness easy for them 
to navigate.
Note: Many places in the adventure have entries similar 
to these, providing information that becomes known 
by a character who gets a success on the indicated 
check.
Development
If the assassins flee, the party can help the novice or 
priest (if either survived) or examine what’s left of them. 
Neither carries unusual wealth, messages, or items; both 
are clearly members of the clerical order of the Sun God, 
judging by their garments and holy symbols.
Examine Shadows. If a character examines the strange 
shadows on the statue, ask for an Intelligence 
(Arcana) or Intelligence (Religion) check and consult 
the following table:
Intelligence (Arcana) or Intelligence (Religion)
Check
Result
10 or 
lower 
Definitely some shadows on that statue. 
Someone should clean it.
11–14 
Khors is a sun god; the presence of shadow 
on his statue is a mark of desecration. 
Marking it in this way requires powerful 
magic.
15–19 
The statue needs to be consecrated.
20 or 
higher
The shadows on the statue are pure matter 
from the Shadow Realm, and they cannot be 
removed without divine magic.
Examine Corpses. If the characters examine the corpses 
of the fey, they find the treasure described below. In 
addition, Intelligence (Investigation) or Intelligence 
(Nature) checks reveal the following information:
Intelligence (Nature) or Intelligence (Investigation)
Check
Result
10 or 
lower 
They look like fey creatures, and they possess 
bladed weapons.
11–14
These are not elves but scáthsidhe, or 
shadow fey. They are a legend in Zobeck, 
long since vanished from everyday life.
15–19
The shadow fey are creatures of neither the 
forest nor the fey wilderness. (Highest result 
possible on Investigation checks.)
20 or 
higher
The shadow fey are natives of the Shadow 
Realm, which is another plane of existence 
and the source of shadow magic.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 12 ---
11
If someone in the party makes an Intelligence 
(History) check, use the following information:
Intelligence (History)
Check
Result
19 or 
lower
The history of the shadow fey is all forgotten 
or lost.
20–29
The scáthsidhe vanished from everyday 
life almost a century ago, withdrawing to 
their realms just as other fey creatures have 
abandoned the mortal world.
30 or 
higher
The shadow fey once ruled the Margreve 
Forest, north of the city. They had some 
alliance or bargain with the people of 
Zobeck, and that’s why the forest has never 
been cut down. A royal family rules the fey.
Treasure
The assassins carry 400 gp worth of strange coins and 
four black opals worth 500 gp. Someone who makes a 
successful DC 20 Intelligence (Arcana) check recognizes 
the coins as currency of the Shadow Realm. The opals 
are marked with an engraved crest of the Moonlit King. 
They can be exchanged for +1 Status later, in the courts, 
if the characters still have them.
Act I, Scene 2:  
Disquiet in the City
The characters might investigate things after the 
assassination, but things also start to investigate them. 
In particular, they are followed by shadows, and their 
sleep is invaded. 
Autumn seems to have snuck up on the city. A 
deepening chill hangs in the city air, and the streets 
are filled with fog and cold mist. People are settling in 
for winter.
Following the mayhem at the temple of Perun and 
Khors, some strange things have been happening around 
town: a street has disappeared, and new heralds in black 
tabards have been spotted on street corners, declaiming 
the “Queen’s Edicts” and disappearing when approached. 
Use the following material as encounters for the party, 
to increase the sense of strangeness in the city, or as 
information gained on successful DC 15 Charisma 
(Persuasion) or Intelligence (Investigation) checks.
TEN STRANGE HAPPENINGS
1. Fey Hunt. A group of fey hunters armed with bows 
and spears are hunting shadows through the streets 
of Zobeck while largely ignoring the people. Their 
white phantom hounds and stamping, strangely 
beautiful stag mounts trample through the crowded 
marketplace, scattering people to all sides. What 
they hunt through the streets is not human, dwarf, 
or kobold, but wild deer, shadowy black bears, and 
a ghostly boar with tusks like knives—all of which 
they have released into the city. The hunters have no 
qualms about endangering innocent bystanders. 
2. Shadow Councilors. The Praetorian Council meets 
in its halls and discovers that its usual numbers have 
been overshadowed by a group of fey visitors who seat 
themselves and begin discussing city business. When 
the council attempts to remove them forcibly, the 
human, dwarf, and kobold councilors find themselves 
thrown out by their own guards (who have been 
tricked by fey glamours). 
3. Trouble in the Street. A fey bard has gained a great 
following, but everywhere he sings, the performance 
ends in a terrible brawl. The injured include a dozen 
members of the city watch. 
4. Disappearances. Rumors claim that people who 
offend one of the fey walking the streets disappear. 
Others claim that the gangs such as the Cloven Nine 
and the Redcloaks are taking advantage of a troubled 
time to settle scores (see the Zobeck Gazetteer for gang 
details). 
5. Longer Twilight. The astronomers of the Arcane 
Collegium believe that the days are even less well lit 
than before. The conjunction of a new moon with the 
winter solstice comes in a few weeks, and that is an 
especially inauspicious time. 
6. Repentant Criminal. An assassin tries to kill the 
mayor, and when his attempt fails, he turns himself 
in and hangs himself in his cell. The Collegium 
necromancer who questions him using a speak with 
dead spell discovers that the assassin repaid a debt 
to a fey overlord to prevent worse happening to his 
children. The children, though, are missing. 
7. River Freezes. The river Argent freezes solid for half 
a day. Merchants despair, captains worry about harm 
to their barges, and children are delighted to play on 
the ice. 
8. Beer Sours. The important White Rose Brewery has 
an entire batch go bad. The dwarves are incensed; the 
fey left a notice that the soured beer was a “penalty for 
words meant to insult and injure the city’s right and 
proper rulers. All future brewings will suffer likewise 
until a sufficient apology is offered.” 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 13 ---
12
9. Mocking Shadows. The characters’ shadows taunt 
them for not throwing in their lot with the hidden 
ambassador, and even threaten them by saying, “The 
shadows will rule, the sun is setting” and similar 
phrases meant to disquiet the characters. 
10. Shades at the Gates. The clockwork watchmen that 
usually watch over the North Gate and Dwarven Gate 
fail to operate normally. They are replaced by shadow 
fey guards wearing white tabards marked with a 
black moon. Attempts by the city watch to oust the 
interlopers fail because the city watch cannot reach 
the gate; they wander all over the city, but every time 
they approach the gates, they take a wrong turn and 
wind up elsewhere. The Zobeck guard captain, Hovart 
Edelstein, is enraged, but the Arcane Collegium seems 
powerless to counter the charm.
THE QUEEN’S EDICTS
If the party takes no action to investigate, events 
continue apace. The Queen of Night and Magic has 
given instructions to her hidden ambassador; he, in turn, 
promulgates a set of edicts to the city by sending out 
black-cloaked heralds to announce these edicts in Elvish.
The characters might hear the first edict directly from 
the hidden ambassador; they are asked to come before 
the council to speak and offer advice or magical aid.
While they are in the city hall chambers, the 
proceedings are interrupted:
A figure dressed in black and white and holding a 
scroll steps forward from a dark corner and gives a 
short speech in Elvish.
For characters who understand Elvish:
“The Moonlit King has spoken and upheld his claims, 
just and remembered. Once the longest night has 
passed, the king and queen of the Realm of Shadow 
shall rule the lands of Zobeck once more, appointing a 
statthalter as Their Royal Highnesses see fit. 
	 “As Hidden Ambassador to the city now built upon 
those lands, I stand ready to arbitrate in the name 
of the Shadow Court, winter and summer, day and 
night. Let no scáthsidhe be harmed or harassed in 
these lands, on pain of blindness. I await your full 
compliance; you may petition me if the need arises.”
The fey bows once after speaking, then disappears.
If the characters attack before the speech is done, the 
ambassador simply flees sooner and gives his speech at 
the citadel or the watch barracks instead.
The Queen’s Edicts are expressed in papers stuck to 
the city gates and announced by loud shadow fey and 
goblin criers in Crown Square and the Greenmarket 
at dawn and dusk each day. At first, these regulations 
are annoying but manageable, such as a ban on cursing 
and an end to the Festival of Light (which isn’t until 
midsummer, so no one notices). Yet those who disobey 
find themselves unable to sleep well, and sometimes find 
their voices gone for days at a time. 
Then the heralds proclaim an interdict against the 
worship of the city’s patron goddess, Rava. All those 
who visit the temple are robbed: every coin, jewel, and 
item of value is taken from them as a “fine.” The priests 
are attacked, just as the priest of Khors was, by shadow 
fey rakes and assassins, and occasionally a hound of the 
night. 
The edicts quickly grow more demanding: no temples 
may be entered without permission of the queen and 
her ambassador, no one may eat meat without paying 
a portion to the fey, and no one may declare a toast 
without praising the fey.
Word on the Street. The characters can talk to citizens or 
do their own poking around to get some news about 
recent events and their import, using Intelligence 
(Investigation) or Charisma (Persuasion) checks:
Intelligence (Investigation) or Charisma (Persuasion)
Check
Result
14 or 
lower
The city is restless; it will be a hard winter. 
15–19
The Street of Tailors and the courtyard in the 
Green District near the market disappeared 
for an entire day.
20–24
The temple of Rava has been closed since the 
day of the assassination attempt. The priests 
and priestesses of the Gear Goddess and 
patron of the city are nowhere to be found.
25–29
The fey who attacked the high priest of 
Khors are shadow fey, who usually keep to 
themselves in the Margreve Forest, north of 
the city. Rumors say that other officials in 
the city have been threatened as well.
30 or 
higher
The events of recent days point to 
something more than troublemaking fey. 
The priesthood of Porevit says a “hidden 
ambassador of the shadow fey” approached 
its centaur high priest, Ogolai, seeking an 
understanding.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 14 ---
13
THE AMBASSADOR’S INVITATION
On top of all these happenings, a strange visitor appears 
one night in the characters’ dreams and invites them to 
visit Winter’s Kiss, the hidden ambassador’s home in 
Zobeck.
There’s just one problem: no one in the city seems 
to have heard of Winter’s Kiss. The fey have kept such 
a low profile up till now that their ambassador, who 
has lived in Zobeck for a decade, is not known by 
name or occupation. Indeed, asking about the hidden 
ambassador brings a blank stare from most people.
If the characters are immediately interested in 
following up on the invitation and locating Winter’s 
Kiss, go to Scene 4 for more information.
FEY EVENTS: GRADUAL OPPRESSION  
AND STRANGE JOYS
If the characters show little interest in finding the 
hidden ambassador, the city slides closer and closer to a 
change of government. Use some or all of the following 
events to show that ignoring the problem is a bad idea. 
1. Fey Crime. The local watch has no jurisdiction over 
the fey (or so the fey claim). As a result, the rakes and 
other young shadow fey run riot in the city, robbing, 
dueling, and destroying property. When confronted 
or accused, they disappear or simply laugh, knowing 
that their misdeeds will have no consequences until 
such time as the statthalter or the hidden ambassador 
calls them to account. 
2. Gates Sealed. Dwarves and humans who might 
leave the city as it grows less hospitable are not 
allowed to leave with their families. The shadow fey 
guards only allow a single family member out through 
the gates at one time, keeping the rest in the city as 
hostages to ensure the traveler’s return. In theory, this 
situation can end when the statthalter or the hidden 
ambassador signs the right proclamation. 
3. Young Sacrifices. Beautiful young women and 
handsome lads are invited to an “Eveningstar Ball,” 
which seems like a pleasant time—but many who 
attend are charmed and seduced and carried away by 
rakes and fey nobles. 
4. Counting Their Subjects. The shadow fey 
order city officials to perform a census and record 
everyone’s birthday, hair color, and other details of a 
private nature. 
5. Kobold Immunity. Kobolds seem strangely 
unaffected by most of this activity (their pact with 
the shadow fey is a separate peace, and they are 
unaffected by the deal with House Stross).
Act I, Scene 3: A Clear Message
Although the characters might know nothing about 
the shadow fey, the fey have certainly been speaking to 
humans, dwarves, and kobolds who know the characters 
by their growing reputations—and the fey don’t plan 
on letting such powerful heroes disturb their plans. The 
information they gain makes it clear to the shadow fey 
that the characters are a threat—so at some point, the 
fey target the characters for assassination.
Choose a time for this encounter when the party has 
just defied the shadow fey in public, or defeated one of 
their agents, or when the party is close to figuring out 
what’s going on.
ENCOUNTER CHOICES
Medium—1 soul eater, 2 tough shadows
Hard—1 soul eater, 1 wraith
Deadly—2 soul eaters, 2 tough shadows, 1 wraith
Soul Eater
Medium fiend, neutral evil
Armor Class 16 
Hit Points 104 (16d8 + 32)
Speed 30 ft. fly 100 ft. 
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
13 (+1)	 22 (+6)	
14 (+2)	
12 (+1)	
11 (+0)	 11 (+0) 
Saving Throws Dex +9, Con +5, Cha +3
Skills Intimidation +3, Perception +3, Stealth +9
Damage Resistances bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing 
from nonmagical attacks
Damage Immunities poison
Condition Immunities paralyzed, poisoned, stunned, 
unconscious
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 13
Languages Infernal
Challenge 7 (2,900 XP)
Caster Link. When a soul eater is summoned, it creates 
a mental link between itself and its conjurer. If the soul 
HAUNTED DREAMS
During this time, everyone’s rest is disturbed to some 
degree by nightmares and strange noises. Each 
character must make a DC 15 Constitution saving 
throw after finishing a long rest in Zobeck. On a 
failed save, that character has a bad rest and gains 
none of the usual benefits.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 15 ---
14
eater’s assigned target (see Find Target) dies before the 
soul eater can drain the target’s soul, or if the soul eater 
is defeated by its target (but not slain), it returns to its 
conjurer at full speed and attacks. While the soul eater 
and the conjurer are on the same plane, it can use its 
Find Target to find its conjurer.
Find Target. When a soul eater’s conjurer orders it to 
find a creature, it can do so unerringly, despite distance 
or intervening obstacles, provided the target is on the 
same plane of existence. The conjurer must have seen 
the desired target and must speak the target’s name.
ACTIONS
Multiattack. The soul eater makes two claw attacks.
Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 13 (2d6 + 6) slashing damage, and the target 
must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw, taking 7 
(2d6) psychic damage on a failed save, or half as much 
damage on a successful one.
Soul Drain. If the soul eater reduces a target to 0 hit 
points, the soul eater can devour that creature’s soul 
as a bonus action. The victim must make a DC 13 
Constitution saving throw. On a successful save, the 
target is dead but can be restored to life by normal 
means. On a failed save, the target’s soul is consumed 
by the soul eater, and the target can’t be restored to life 
with clone, raise dead, or reincarnate. A resurrection, true 
resurrection, or wish spell can return the target to life, 
but only if the caster succeeds on a DC 15 spellcasting 
ability check. If the soul eater dies within 120 feet of its 
victim’s corpse and the victim has been dead no longer 
than 1 minute, the victim’s soul returns to the body and 
restores it to life, leaving the victim unconscious and 
stable with 0 hit points. 
Tough Shadow
Medium undead, chaotic evil
Armor Class 12 
Hit Points 25 (3d8 + 12)
Speed 40 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
6 (–2)	
14 (+2)	
13 (+1)	
6 (–2)	
10 (+0)	
8 (–1)
Skills Stealth +4 (+6 in dim light or darkness)
Damage Vulnerabilities radiant
Damage Resistances acid, cold, fire, lightning, thunder; 
bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing from nonmagical 
attacks
Damage Immunities necrotic, poison
Condition Immunities exhaustion, frightened, grappled, 
paralyzed, petrified, poisoned, prone, restrained
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 10
Languages —
Challenge 1/2 (100 XP)
Amorphous. The shadow can move through a space as 
narrow as 1 inch wide without squeezing.
Shadow Stealth. While in dim light or darkness, the 
shadow can take the Hide action as a bonus action.
Sunlight Weakness. While in sunlight, the shadow has 
disadvantage on attack rolls, ability checks, and saving 
throws.
ACTIONS
Strength Drain. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., 
one creature. Hit: 9 (2d6 + 2) necrotic damage, and the 
target’s Strength score is reduced by 1d4. The target dies 
if this reduces its Strength to 0. Otherwise, the reduction 
lasts until the target finishes a short or long rest. 
	
If a non-evil humanoid dies from this attack, a new 
shadow rises from the corpse 1d4 hours later.
Wraith
Medium undead, neutral evil
Armor Class 13 
Hit Points 67 (9d8 + 27)
Speed 0 ft., fly 60 ft. (hover)
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
6 (–2)	
16 (+3)	
16 (+3)	
12 (+1)	
14 (+2)	 15 (+2)
Damage Resistances acid, cold, fire, lightning, thunder; 
bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing from nonmagical 
attacks not made with silvered weapons
Damage Immunities necrotic, poison
Condition Immunities charmed, exhaustion, grappled, 
paralyzed, petrified, poisoned, prone, restrained
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 12
Languages Elvish, Umbral
Challenge 5 (1,800 XP)
Incorporeal Movement. The wraith can move through 
other creatures and objects as if they were difficult 
terrain. It takes 5 (1d10) force damage if it ends its turn 
inside an object.
Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the wraith has 
disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks that rely on sight.
ACTIONS
Life Drain. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., 
one creature. Hit: 21 (4d8 + 3) necrotic damage. The 
target must succeed on a DC 14 Constitution saving 
throw or its hit point maximum is reduced by an amount 
equal to the damage taken. This reduction lasts until the 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 16 ---
15
target finishes a long rest. The target dies if this effect 
reduces its hit point maximum to 0.
Create Specter. The wraith targets a humanoid within 
10 feet of it that has been dead for no longer than 1 
minute and died violently. The target’s spirit rises as 
a specter in the space of its corpse or in the nearest 
unoccupied space. The specter is under the wraith’s 
control. The wraith can have no more than seven 
specters under its control at one time.
The soul eaters focus their attacks on any creatures 
openly bearing holy symbols, with a preference for 
worshipers of a sun god, followed by any obvious 
followers of Rava. They then turn on heavily armored or 
hard-hitting foes, but always attacking the same enemy. 
For groups requiring slightly more of a challenge, but 
not a full jump to a deadly encounter, consider having 
the soul eater split into two shadows when it dies. The 
shadows act on the soul eater’s initiative count. 
Treasure
If a soul eater is slain, its shadowy ashes contain a 
magical powder with the properties of a potion of 
greater healing.
Act I, Scene 4:  
Seeking the Hidden Ambassador
As the characters have likely already learned, mundane 
attempts to locate Winter’s Kiss are no help at all, but 
some spells might prove useful.
Speak with Animals. Given the nature-friendly aspect of 
the fey, this spell works better than one might expect; 
a bird (a crow or a songbird, but not a pigeon) or even 
a rat might know that Winter’s Kiss is located near the 
Arcane Collegium, or near the Market District (this is 
the Shadow Fey Exchange, a place often confused with 
the ambassador’s residence). The place is magically 
protected from the view of most people, enchanted 
to disappear from the eyes of those who were born 
after the enchantment was spun. As a result, only 
the elderly, the elf-marked, and a few wizards with 
keen arcane sight can find it easily. Animals were not 
included in the protective glamour, so a pigeon or a rat 
might say something like “The Mouse King has spoken 
of it. The fey keep a few of us as pets and servants.” 
The animals’ answers are all vague about how to 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 17 ---
16
actually enter the place, and finding the exact location 
requires interpreting the directions of various urban 
wildlife, possibly requiring additional ability checks 
(Intelligence [Nature] DC 15 or Wisdom [Insight] DC 
18), bribes of nuts and cheeses, or the ability to follow 
a bird as it flies.
Divination. More precise in some ways than speak with 
animals, the spell yields the following truthful reply: 
“Lost fey souls guard the ancient stones where red caps 
once hung.” The last reference alludes to “the House 
of Red Hats,” which was the Stross counting house 
before the Great Revolt and has since been sold to the 
spice merchant Enneas Thel and renamed Winter’s 
Kiss. A successful DC 17 Intelligence (History) check, 
or consulting any of the city’s older merchants, reveals 
the location of the building. A visit is then easy.
Legend Lore. This spell works perfectly to locate Winter’s 
Kiss, but if the characters have easy access to this 
magic, they might be too powerful for the adventure 
as written. If the characters have no other good option, 
the priestess of Rava the Gear Goddess might cast 
legend lore on their behalf if the characters seek her 
out and pay for the Clockwork Oracle (see ”Zobeck 
and the Crossroads” in the Midgard Worldbook, or see 
the Zobeck Gazetteer for 5th Edition).
IF THE CHARACTERS DON’T COOPERATE
For whatever reason, the characters might decide to 
play a waiting game and see what develops. If that’s what 
happens, the fey don’t invade, exactly; they just declare 
themselves in charge and assume that everyone will obey 
them. This leads to a curious sort of dual government for 
a time; the human guards are flummoxed by fey magic, 
and the fey pretty much ignore all human institutions 
that do not interfere with their goals. 
If the characters don’t investigate further for a month, 
a herald announces that no one may breathe the king’s 
air in the Gear District (which leaves the gearforged 
the only ones who can visit). At dawn and dusk, the fey 
seize control of the city gates, the council chambers, 
and the temple of the Green Gods. They don’t exactly 
fight the city’s watchmen; however, they enforce their 
declared laws. Those who break them are beaten, cut, or 
shaved hairless. Some are exiled from the city. 
Naturally, the Praetorian Council, the mayor, and 
others find these edicts a threat to their authority and a 
danger to the city. Why the sudden fey arrival? How can 
a bargain be struck with such capricious and arrogant 
creatures? Perhaps they can persuade the party to seek 
out the hidden ambassador after all.
Act I, Scene 5: Dogs at the Door
Once the characters discover how to reach the 
ambassador and parley with him, the house seems 
ordinary. When the party first arrives, read:
The house seems perfectly ordinary, although you can 
tell that no one enters or leaves by what seems to be 
the front door. The walls are of thick gray slate. The 
door bears a fresh coat of white paint and an elegant 
silver knocker in the shape of a wolf’s head. The 
shutters are gray and tightly closed. 
	 A small window in the front door is shuttered. You 
hear barking from within.
The door is unlocked. Knocking on it brings a shadow 
fey rake, who opens the window in the door and 
introduces himself as Canderminne Tallowglass, a servant 
to His Excellency, the Ambassador‑In‑Extraordinary of 
the Shadow Realm. He seems surprised to see humans 
at the door, and he addresses any elf, gnome, or other 
fey with the party as if that character were the leader of 
the group. He does expect a reason for their visit; if the 
characters present the invitation, they are allowed in 
and then told to wait in the hall (see “Enter, Friend, and 
Welcome” below).
If no invitation is shown, the characters can talk their 
way in with a successful DC 20 Charisma (Deception) 
check or a DC 15 Charisma (Persuasion) check. 
Canderminne is skeptical of those who breach protocol 
but reluctant to turn them away. 
If the party does not show the invitation and they fail 
to talk their way in, Canderminne politely asks them to 
leave: a successful DC 20 Charisma (Persuasion) check 
enables them to ask a single question before leaving. 
Each additional question requires another check, and 
at the first failure, Canderminne steps back from direct 
contact with the characters and calls out the dogs.
Winter’s Kiss is guarded by a large number of hounds 
and wolves; the encounter below should be run at least 
twice if the characters try to attack the place in force.
ENCOUNTER CHOICES
Medium—2 hounds of the night
Hard—2 hounds of the night, 2 shadow wolves
Deadly—2 hounds of the night, 1 shadow fey rake, 2 
shadow wolves
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 18 ---
17
Hound of the Night
Large monstrosity, neutral evil
Armor Class 16 (natural armor)
Hit Points 112 (15d10 + 30)
Speed 50 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
20 (+5)	 16 (+3)	
14 (+2)	
9 (–1)	
14 (+2)	 10 (+0)
Saving Throws Dex +6, Con +5, Wis +5
Skills Intimidation +3, Perception +5, Stealth +6
Damage Vulnerabilities fire
Damage Immunities cold
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 16
Languages understands Elvish and Umbral but can’t speak
Challenge 5 (1,800 XP)
Blood Scent. A hound of the night can follow a scent 
through phase shifts, ethereal movement, dimension 
door, and fey steps of any kind. Teleport and plane shift 
are beyond its ability to follow.
Innate Spellcasting. The hound’s innate spellcasting 
ability is Wisdom. It can innately cast the following spell, 
requiring no material components: 
At will: dimension door
ACTIONS
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 21 (3d10 + 5) piercing damage, and the 
target must succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving throw 
or be knocked prone.
Frost Breath (Recharge 5–6). The hound exhales a 
15‑foot cone of frost. Each creature in the cone must 
make a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw, taking 44 (8d10) 
cold damage on a failed save or half as much damage 
on a successful one.
Shadow Fey Rake
Medium humanoid (elf), neutral evil
Armor Class 16 (studded leather)
Hit Points 104 (16d8 + 32)
Speed 30 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
12 (+1)	 18 (+4)	
14 (+2)	
11 (+0)	
10 (+0)	 15 (+2)
Saving Throws Dex +6, Cha +4
Skills Acrobatics +6, Arcana +2, Intimidation +4
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 10
Languages Common, Elvish, Umbral
Challenge 4 (1,100 XP)
Fey Ancestry. The rake has advantage on saving throws 
against being charmed, and magic can’t put it to sleep.
Innate Spellcasting. The shadow fey’s innate spellcasting 
ability is Charisma. It can cast the following spell 
innately, requiring no material components:
2/day: misty step (when in shadows, dim light, or 
darkness only)
Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the shadow 
fey has disadvantage on attack rolls and on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks that rely on sight.
Traveler in Darkness. The shadow fey has advantage 
on Intelligence (Arcana) checks made to know about 
shadow roads and shadow magic spells or items.
ACTIONS
Multiattack. The shadow fey makes two melee attacks. 
Rapier. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) piercing damage plus 7 (2d6) 
poison damage.
REACTIONS
Parry. The shadow fey 
rake adds 2 to its AC 
against one melee 
attack that would hit 
it. To do so, the rake 
must see the target 
and be wielding a 
melee weapon.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 19 ---
18
Shadow Wolf
Large beast, unaligned
Armor Class 14 (natural armor)
Hit Points 37 (5d10 + 10)
Speed 50 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
18 (+4)	
15 (+2)	
15 (+2)	
3 (–4)	
12 (+1)	
7 (–2)
Skills Perception +3, Stealth +4
Damage Resistances cold
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 13
Languages —
Challenge 2 (450 XP)
Keen Hearing and Smell. The shadow wolf has advantage 
on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on hearing or 
smell.
Pack Tactics. The shadow wolf has advantage on an 
attack roll against a creature if at least one of the wolf’s 
allies is within 5 feet of the creature and the ally isn’t 
incapacitated.
ACTIONS
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) piercing damage plus 7 (2d6) 
cold damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 14 
Strength saving throw or be knocked prone.
Development
If the characters gain entry to Winter’s Kiss without 
violence, award each character 2,000 XP. 
ENTER, FRIEND, AND WELCOME
If the party passes muster, Canderminne bids them 
welcome to Winter’s Kiss and asks for each character’s 
“name and rank,” so he can announce them. Once he is 
satisfied on that score, he ushers them inside.
The servant leads you down a long, carpeted hall to the 
audience chamber, a room dimly lit by a few candles. 
	 A white owl sits on a perch at the end of a long 
dining table. A single chair stands in the room, and 
seated on it is a fey with black hair, a thin nose, and 
pointed ears almost as long as a goblin’s. His clothes 
are pure black and heavily embroidered in more black; 
his leggings are pure white and embellished with 
hexagonal designs. He holds an ivory wand. 
	 The servant says, “Visitors, Your Excellency.” [He then 
repeats the characters’ names and ranks, starting 
with fey and titled characters. He neglects to mention 
obvious henchmen, servants, and barbarians.] The 
shadow fey noble ignores you long enough to be 
rude, then turns and says to the party’s perceived 
leader, in a corrupted version of Elvish, “Why do you 
trouble me? Oh, yes, I may have invited you, but I did 
not expect you to take me up on the offer. Much less 
to bring minions with you.”
The white owl is the sorcerer Freja Owlsdaughter. The 
rake remains at the door, politely not watching. If the 
party includes a speaker of Elvish, the ambassador’s mood 
improves noticeably. (“You speak like civilized people!”)
The ambassador then explains why he wanted to meet 
the party.
“Ah, yes, I did invite you for a reason. Stand, and listen 
well. My servant will bring us goblets and a stoup of 
wine. You are well known in the city, you know. All my 
spies tell me so. And thus, your open and heartfelt 
support for the queen’s just and proper rule will make 
things easier for all. I require your immediate word 
of honor that you will not attempt further armed 
insurrection against the just and proper ruler of the city. 
	 “And to be clear, I mean the queen. If you have 
any other thoughts, discard them. Unless you can 
somehow change her mind, she can and will rule over 
everything as soon as humans learn that her claim is 
just, and her rule inevitable. Perhaps she will arrive in 
procession in full splendor, to cow the weak.”
There’s potential here for a heated conversation. The 
ambassador does not yield a single point if the characters 
argue in favor of what he calls “humans ruling lands 
that do not belong to them.” To give them incentive to 
see things his way, he offers them titles, such as Lord 
of Zobeck or Mortal Magister to the Shadow Court or 
even Master of the Faithful for a cleric, if it helps. If he is 
asked about the earlier assassinations, he simply declares 
that a “change of administration” is under way. No 
apology is forthcoming.
At this point, a character who succeeds on a DC 20 
Wisdom (Insight) check realizes that the ambassador is 
holding things back, not revealing the full truth of his 
opinions on the matter.
HISTORY LESSON
If the characters request an explanation for the presence 
of the fey, the ambassador summarizes the history of the 
fey’s involvement with Zobeck:
The queen’s claim to this territory dates back to before 
the city’s founding, when the shadow fey ruled all the 
lands from the Ironcrags to the Ruby Sea. 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 20 ---
19
When House Stross was overthrown in the Great 
Revolt, the lands reverted to possession of those that 
granted the fiefdom—namely, the Lambent House of Her 
Celestial and Royal Majesty, Sarastra Aestruum, Queen 
of Night and Magic, Duchess of the Heavens, Countess 
of Thorn, Mistress of Air and Darkness, Lady of the 
Summer Palace and Bride of Shadows, as well as her 
husband and the father of the royal line, His Lunar and 
Royal Majesty, Ludomir Imbrium the XVI, the Moonlit 
King of the Shadow fey, Lord of the Shadow Realm, 
Lord Protector of the Black Elves, Duke of the Elvish 
Ironcrags, Baron of Bratislor, Earl of Zobeck, Master of 
the Winter Palace, and Count-Palatine of Salzbach.
The claim lay unacknowledged for a few decades, 
during which time the shadow fey were otherwise 
occupied, but it remains valid. The Margreve Forest and 
all lands within sight of it are part of the claim.
CONVERSATIONAL PITFALLS
If the characters try to assert themselves against 
the ambassador and his enormous sense of ego and 
privilege, things can go very badly. Thelamandrine 
considers humans, kobolds, dwarves, and other non-fey 
to be lesser races, and he reacts poorly to any attempt 
to suggest that the shadow fey are in the wrong in their 
claim. The Queen’s Writ is the law in the ambassador’s 
eyes; to say otherwise is treasonous. 
If a character tries to discuss the mayor, Zobeck’s status 
as a free city, the rights of citizens, or the worship of 
Rava and the Sun God, the speaker immediately realizes 
(with a successful DC 10 Wisdom [Insight] check) 
that the statement has been taken as deeply offensive 
by the ambassador—after which he asks, point blank, 
whether the characters are “enemies of the court.” A 
successful DC 18 Charisma (Deception or Persuasion) 
or Intelligence (History) check steers the conversation 
away and avoids the question. If he is not satisfied with 
the answer, he calls on the sorcereress, the deathwisp, 
and possibly the shadow fey to cover his retreat. If the 
characters claim to want to fight against the queen, the 
hidden ambassador is happy to oblige them.
Additional Information. The party might learn more 
from Hidden Ambassador Thelamandrine with good 
roleplaying and clever questions. You can dispense 
this information according to the situation, or make 
it available to characters who attempt a Charisma 
(Persuasion) check. Higher check totals can include the 
results of lower checks as well, at your discretion.
Charisma (Persuasion)
Check
Result
14 or 
lower
“The queen is sometimes amused to meet 
foreigners.”
15–19
“The king was the one who declared that the 
claim to the city is both valid and of interest 
to the court.”
20–24
“The king and the queen are, indeed, not 
always of one mind in affairs of state. But 
this is not your concern.”
25–29
“The king has retired to his tower, and his 
instructions have grown somewhat . . . 
cryptic. He has moods and seasons that are 
beyond your understanding, simple folk of 
the daylight lands.”
30 or 
higher
“The queen has taken a lover, and she might 
be looking for an excuse to expand her power 
. . . But no, I descend into gossip. Enough—
show our guests the door! They bore me, and 
I do nothing but prattle. Summon me proper 
companions for the night!”
The ambassador privately thinks that this effort to 
enforce the fey’s ancient claim to the city is foolhardy 
(although he never quite says so). He tells the party that 
the city will surely be quiet and under the shadow fey’s 
benevolent rule within in a year and a day, or perhaps 
much sooner; time passes strangely in mortal lands and, 
as folk say, “Who knows when Her Majesty will appoint 
a viceroy?” At that time, all resistance to the fey rulership 
of Zobeck must cease, or blood will flow in earnest.
If the characters succeed in their entreaties to the 
ambassador, he tells them a method exists that would 
allow them to visit the court and plead their case 
directly, by heading out along the Shadow Road. If asked 
about the details, however, he is coy at best:
“My responsibility,” he says, “is to convince you that 
such an action would be foolish. Surely your visit to 
the Shadow Realm would be suicidal and a waste of 
effort.” He winks. “But if you would go, I cannot stop 
you, for the queen’s court is open to all comers.”
The ambassador knows the city well enough to know 
that attempts to enforce the fey’s claim will be bloody 
and likely futile in the long run. Some eighty years of 
independence, combined with the influx of human and 
dwarf worship of the Gear Goddess, makes the city a 
potential backdrop for misunderstanding and disaster. 
Though he cannot openly help the party in any way, 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 21 ---
20
Thelamandrine is willing to stand aside or even point 
them in the right direction, provided he can ultimately 
deny any involvement in their plans if they fail.
FIGHTING THE AMBASSADOR
If the characters refuse to parley, or the conversation 
goes poorly, and they insist on fighting, they are making 
things difficult for themselves later. But the ambassador 
is more than willing to fight.
Arrival at Winter’s Kiss. The ambassador, Freja 
Owlsdaughter, and six rakes are visible at the house; up 
to five deathwisps and possibly a few shadows are well 
hidden behind the walls and floors, appearing only if 
the ambassador or the sorcereress call for them.
The ambassador is already fleeing, knocking over his 
chair in his haste. From the floor and from the walls 
step guardian creatures of black armor, yet only skulls 
and shadows are visible within their helms. 
	 The owl speaks a word and becomes a fey sorceress.
The characters start in the area indicated on the map.
Freja and the deathwisps cover the ambassador’s retreat 
with a furious attack meant to buy him time. Hidden 
Ambassador Thelamandrine moves behind the tapestry 
at the south end of the room. With his minions to guard 
him, he prepares a spell to depart along the Shadow 
Road. These battles are intended to be quite difficult for a 
7th-level party. The shadow fey will not pursue retreating 
characters, but will remember the insult.
If at all possible, the Ambassador flees the combat 
by way of the Shadow Road, rather than confronting a 
band of murderous heroes.
WITHIN THE EMBASSY, FOOLISH CHOICES
Hard—Freja Owlsdaughter, 1 deathwisp
Deadly—Freja Owlsdaughter, 2 deathwisps
Deadly (11th-level characters)—Freja Owlsdaughter,  
4 deathwisps
Illumination. The manor of Winter’s Kiss is dimly lit by 
muted lanterns between the shadows.
Freja Owlsdaughter, the Shadowsworn
Medium humanoid (elf, shapechanger), neutral evil
Armor Class 16 (bracers of defense, mage armor)
Hit Points 123 (19d8 + 38)
Speed 30 ft. (5 ft., fly 60 ft. in owl form)
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
10 (+0)	 15 (+2)	
14 (+2)	
12 (+1)	
14 (+2)	 18 (+4)
Saving Throws Dex +5, Wis +5, Cha +7
Skills Arcana +4, Deception +7, Perception +5, 
Persuasion +7, Stealth +5
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 15
Languages Common, Elvish, Umbral 
Challenge 7 (2,900 XP)
Fey Ancestry. Freja has advantage on saving throws 
against being charmed, and magic can’t put her to 
sleep.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 22 ---
21
Innate Spellcasting. Freja’s innate spellcasting ability 
is Charisma. She can cast the following spell innately, 
requiring no material components. 
4/day: misty step (when in shadows, dim light, or 
darkness only)
Shapechanger. Freja can use her action to polymorph 
into an owl, or back into her humanoid form. Her 
statistics, other than size, are the same in each form. 
Any equipment she is wearing or carrying falls to the 
ground, merges into her form, or is worn if the new form 
is capable of wearing it. She reverts to her humanoid 
form if she dies.
Spellcasting. Freja is a 10th-level spellcaster. Her 
spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 15, +7 to 
hit with spell attacks). She knows the following sorcerer 
spells:
Cantrips (at will): blade ward, chill touch, friends, mage 
hand, minor illusion, ray of frost
1st level (4 slots): mage armor, magic missile, shield
2nd level (3 slots): blindness/deafness, gust of wind
3rd level (3 slots): counterspell, hypnotic pattern
4th level (3 slots): blight, confusion
5th level (2 slots): cone of cold
Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, Freja has 
disadvantage on attack rolls and on Wisdom (Perception) 
checks that rely on sight.
Traveler in Darkness. Freja has advantage on Intelligence 
(Arcana) checks made to know about shadow roads and 
shadow magic spells or items.
ACTIONS
Rapier. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 6 (1d8 + 2) piercing damage and 7 (2d6) cold 
damage.
Deathwisp
Medium undead, neutral evil
Armor Class 15
Hit Points 82 (11d8 + 33)
Speed 0 ft., fly 60 ft. (hover)
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
6 (–2)	
20 (+5)	
16 (+3)	
18 (+4)	
16 (+3)	 20 (+5)
Saving Throws Dex +8, Con +6, Wis +6
Skills Perception +6, Stealth +8
Damage Resistances acid, cold, fire, lightning, thunder; 
bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing from nonmagical 
weapons that aren’t silvered
Damage Immunities necrotic, poison 
Condition Immunities charmed, exhaustion, grappled, 
paralyzed, petrified, poisoned, prone, restrained
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 16
Languages Common, Umbral
Challenge 7 (2,900 XP)
Flicker. The deathwisp flickers in and out of sight, 
and ranged weapon attacks against it are made with 
disadvantage.
Incorporeal Movement. The deathwisp can move through 
other creatures and objects as if they were difficult 
terrain. It takes 5 (1d10) force damage if it ends its turn 
inside a solid object.
Shadow Jump. A deathwisp can travel between shadows 
as if by means of dimension door. This magical transport 
must begin and end in an area with at least some 
shadow. It can jump up to a total of 40 feet per day. This 
ability must be used in 10-foot increments.
Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the deathwisp 
has disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks that rely on sight. 
Unnatural Aura. Animals do not willingly approach 
within 30 feet of a deathwisp, unless a master succeeds 
on a DC 15 Wisdom (Animal Handling) check.
ACTIONS
Life Drain. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., 
one target. Hit: 36 (7d8 + 5) necrotic damage. The target 
must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw, or 
its hit point maximum is reduced by an amount equal to 
the damage taken. This reduction lasts until the target 
finishes a long rest. The target dies if this effect reduces 
its hit point maximum to 0.
Create Deathwisp. The deathwisp targets a humanoid 
within 10 feet of it that died violently less than 1 minute 
ago. The target’s spirit rises as a wraith in the space 
of its corpse or in the nearest unoccupied space. This 
wraith is under the deathwisp’s control. The deathwisp 
can keep no more than five wraiths under its control at 
one time.
Treasure
The deathwisps have no treasure, but Freja has one item 
she holds very dear: a pair of bracers of defense.
DEVELOPMENT
If the ambassador attempts to flee, continue with:
A heavy tapestry conceals the door the ambassador 
went through. Elvish writing, in mithral and studded 
with shining green jewels, covers its surface.
The door is not trapped or warded. The inscription 
is written in an unusual dialect: “These chambers are 
not for you, mortals, and not for those who have never 
looked upon the shadow forest. Those who pass against 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 23 ---
22
the ambassador’s wishes will meet his soldiers and join 
his army of servants.” 
The mithral and jewels can be pried out with a 
successful DC 15 Dexterity check using jeweler’s tools, 
smith’s tools, or thieves’ tools. They are worth 4,400 gp in 
total: six citrines worth 500 gp each and 1,400 gp worth 
of mithral. Doing so takes about 5 minutes and gives the 
ambassador an opportunity to complete his ritual.
If the ability check fails by 5 or more, one of the jewels 
is cracked and ruined by the character’s overly hasty 
attempts to pry it loose.
A character who examines the door and succeeds on 
a DC 18 Wisdom (Perception) check discovers what 
appears to be a discharged magical trap on the door. The 
darker greenish hue of the jewels indicates that their 
power has been expended. 
The characters might choose to take a few minutes 
of discussion or preparation after fighting Freja 
Owlsdaughter. If they do so, halve the time necessary 
for the ambassador to escape (see below) from 4 rounds 
to 2 rounds.
EXIT STAGE LEFT
Deadly—1 deathwisp, Hidden Ambassador 
Thelamandrine
Deadly (9th-level characters)—1 deathwisp, Hidden 
Ambassador Thelamandrine, 1 shadow fey rake
Deadly (10th-level characters)—2 deathwisps, Hidden 
Ambassador Thelamandrine, 2 shadow fey rakes
As the party goes through the door behind the tapestry 
where the ambassador fled into the ballroom. They are 
immediately beset by the ambassador and his allies. If he 
can chant for 4 rounds (as a bonus action each round), 
he opens a shadow portal and escapes.
Deathwisp
Medium undead, neutral evil
Armor Class 15
Hit Points 82 (11d8 + 33)
Speed 0 ft., fly 60 ft. (hover)
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
6 (–2)	
20 (+5)	
16 (+3)	
18 (+4)	
16 (+3)	
20 (+5)
Saving Throws Dex +8, Con +6, Wis +6
Skills Perception +6, Stealth +8
Damage Resistances acid, cold, fire, lightning, thunder; 
bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing from nonmagical 
weapons that aren’t silvered
Damage Immunities necrotic, poison
Condition Immunities charmed, exhaustion, grappled, 
paralyzed, petrified, poisoned, prone, restrained
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 16
Languages Common, Umbral
Challenge 7 (2,900 XP)
Flicker. The deathwisp flickers in and out of sight, 
and ranged weapon attacks against it are made with 
disadvantage.
Incorporeal Movement. The deathwisp can move through 
other creatures and objects as if they were difficult 
terrain. It takes 5 (1d10) force damage if it ends its turn 
inside a solid object.
Shadow Jump. A deathwisp can travel between shadows 
as if by means of dimension door. This magical transport 
must begin and end in an area with at least some 
shadow. It can jump up to a total of 40 feet per day. This 
ability must be used in 10-foot increments.
Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the deathwisp 
has disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks that rely on sight. 
Unnatural Aura. Animals do not willingly approach 
within 30 feet of a deathwisp, unless a master succeeds 
on a DC 15 Wisdom (Animal Handling) check.
ACTIONS
Life Drain. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., 
one target. Hit: 36 (7d8 + 5) necrotic damage. The target 
must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw, or 
its hit point maximum is reduced by an amount equal to 
the damage taken. This reduction lasts until the target 
finishes a long rest. The target dies if this effect reduces 
its hit point maximum to 0.
ZOBECK CANON
The Dragged Woman, the other sluagh, can be 
temperamental and often commands expensive 
prices. Her information usually works only once. 
While she might be able to help the characters with 
an immediate path to the courts, they will have no 
return route and might need to learn the ritual there. 
You could use this option for groups who know 
of the Dragged Woman, or who want to skip such 
investigations after a single barter with the Dragged 
Woman. If so, her passage deposits the characters on 
the Shadow Road. 
	
See either Streets of Zobeck or the Zobeck Gazetteer 
for more details regarding the Dragged Woman.
	
The shadow fey, however, know that the characters 
have entered the road, and conspire against them. 
Such groups proceed to Scene 7, but suffer at least 
two encounters on the road.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 24 ---
23
Create Deathwisp. The deathwisp targets a humanoid 
within 10 feet of it that died violently less than 1 minute 
ago. The target’s spirit rises as a wraith in the space 
of its corpse or in the nearest unoccupied space. This 
wraith is under the deathwisp’s control. The deathwisp 
can keep no more than five wraiths under its control at 
one time.
Hidden Ambassador Thelamandrine
Medium humanoid (elf), neutral evil
Armor Class 18 (+1 studded leather, ring of protection)
Hit Points 141 (22d8 + 44)
Speed 30 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
13 (+1)	 18 (+4)	
14 (+2)	
14 (+2)	
12 (+1)	 20 (+5)
Saving Throws Dex +6, Cha +7
Skills Arcana +6, Deception +9, Insight +5, Intimidation 
+9, Perception +5, Persuasion +9, Stealth +8
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 10
Languages Common, Elvish, Sylvan, Umbral
Challenge 9 (5,000 XP)
Fey Ancestry. The ambassador has advantage on saving 
throws against being charmed, and magic can’t put him 
to sleep.
Innate Spellcasting. The ambassador’s innate spellcasting 
ability is Charisma. He can cast the following spell 
innately, requiring no material components:
5/day: misty step (when in shadows, dim light, or 
darkness only)
Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the ambassador 
has disadvantage on attack rolls and on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks that rely on sight.
Traveler in Darkness. The ambassador has advantage 
on Intelligence (Arcana) checks made to know about 
shadow roads and shadow magic spells or items.
ACTIONS
Multiattack. The ambassador makes three attacks with 
his rapier. If he has a dagger drawn, he can also make a 
dagger attack. 
Rapier. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 9 (1d8 + 5) piercing damage plus 10 (3d6) 
poison damage.
Dagger. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, 
reach 5 ft. or range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d4 + 
5) piercing damage. The target must succeed on a DC 
14 Constitution saving throw or become poisoned for 
1 minute. The target can repeat the saving throw at the 
end of its turn to end the effect on itself.
REACTIONS
Parry. The ambassador adds 4 to his AC against 
one melee attack that would hit him. To do so, the 
ambassador must see the target and be wielding a 
melee weapon.
Shadow Fey Rake
Medium humanoid (elf), neutral evil
Armor Class 16 (studded leather)
Hit Points 104 (16d8 + 32)
Speed 30 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
12 (+1)	 18 (+4)	
14 (+2)	
11 (+0)	
10 (+0)	 15 (+2)
Saving Throws Dex +6, Cha +4
Skills Acrobatics +6, Arcana +2, Intimidation +4
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 25 ---
24
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 10
Languages Common, Elvish, Umbral
Challenge 4 (1,100 XP)
Fey Ancestry. The shadow fey has advantage on saving 
throws against being charmed, and magic can’t put it to 
sleep.
Innate Spellcasting. The shadow fey’s innate spellcasting 
ability is Charisma. It can cast the following spell 
innately, requiring no material components:
2/day: misty step (when in shadows, dim light, or 
darkness only)
Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the shadow 
fey has disadvantage on attack rolls and on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks that rely on sight.
Traveler in Darkness. The shadow fey has advantage 
on Intelligence (Arcana) checks made to know about 
shadow roads and shadow magic spells or items.
ACTIONS
Multiattack. The shadow fey makes two melee attacks. 
Rapier. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) piercing damage plus 7 (2d6) 
poison damage.
REACTIONS
Parry. The shadow fey rake adds 2 to its AC against one 
melee attack that would hit it. To do so, the rake must 
see the target and be wielding a melee weapon.
Treasure
The party might find treasure that the ambassador keeps 
in a locked chest in his chambers. The ambassador’s 
chest contains two jewel-studded, golden wine goblets 
worth 2,500 gp each and 2,000 gp in Zobeck coin.
Development
If the party does not fight the ambassador but instead 
chooses to roleplay through the scene and fares well, 
Ambassador Thelamandrine gives each character a 
gold and glass goblet (worth 2,000 gp) “fit for a royal 
feast,” and his sorceress grants them a boon of “a visit 
from my tailor” for “not behaving like so many louts we 
have entertained in this simple home.” This gift takes 
the form of a pair of silk and black leather bracers of 
defense for an arcane or fey character (which appears 
in a strange leather parcel with a note addressed to the 
character at some point in the next few days) and the 
possibility that the sorceress Freja Owlsdaughter will 
reappear as an ally later in the adventure. Award each 
character 2,500 XP.
Act I, Scene 6: Finding the 
Shadow Road Ritual
With the hints received from Hidden Ambassador 
Thelamandrine, the party might ask around about the 
ritual that opens the Shadow Road. There’s little to go 
on at first, but the city of Zobeck does have the Arcane 
Collegium and fey living within its walls who consider 
the place home and who know secrets. One of them will 
ultimately provide the information the party needs.
The skill challenges in this scene—Research at the 
Collegium,  Lych Gate, The Reluctant Sluagh, and 
Beneath the Pier—can be conducted as ability checks or 
as roleplaying exercises, allowing characters to utilize 
their creativity. They can be pursued in any order, and 
they build on one another, but they need not all be 
undertaken. (Conversely, you can decide it’s possible 
for the characters to try again if their first attempt at a 
SKILL CHALLENGES
A skill challenge simulates an attempt to perform 
a task that takes a longer time and a greater effort 
than a single ability check. In its most basic form, the 
characters make a series of ability checks with the goal 
of earning a required number of successes before 
accumulating a maximum number of failed checks 
(similar to how death saving throws work). 
	
The presentation of skill challenges varies 
throughout the adventure, depending on the needs 
of a particular scene. Regardless of its format, every 
challenge identifies a number of ability checks (and 
their DCs) appropriate to the task and the benefit 
that’s earned by getting a success. It also explains 
what happens when the challenge results in an overall 
success or failure.
	
Of course, characters might try to make checks or 
do other things that aren’t accounted for in the text of 
the challenge, including casting spells or using elements 
of class features and backgrounds. Reward creative 
thinking appropriately: for example, Intelligence checks 
to decipher significant meaning in ancient writings 
could be made with advantage, or at a reduced DC, if 
accompanied by the use of comprehend languages. Err 
on the side of assisting an action with the use of spells 
rather than using a spell to take the place of a check 
outright, but keep the scene interesting, and flowing.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 26 ---
25
challenge results in failure.) As a result of experiencing 
the challenges, the adventurers should acquire the basic 
information about the tread the Niflheim road ritual and 
the ability to recognize those places where the ritual can 
be performed.
RESEARCH AT THE COLLEGIUM
At the Arcane Collegium, the adventurers research the 
particulars of the Shadow Road ritual. They interact 
with a group of Collegium students or the Collegium 
librarian on the grounds or possibly in one of the nearby 
taverns, such as the Hedgehog or the King’s Cup.
Overall Success Requires: 4 successes before 3 failures.
Possible Actions for Successful Checks
•  Ask for help from the librarian: Charisma 
(Persuasion), Intelligence (Arcana), Intelligence 
(History), or Wisdom (Insight) (all DC 13) or 
Charisma (Intimidation) (DC 15). Only 1 success can 
be earned from this task.
•  Research the material without help: Intelligence 
(Arcana) (DC 15).
•  Seek help from students: Charisma (Persuasion), 
Intelligence (Investigation), Intelligence (Arcana), 
Intelligence (History), or Wisdom (Insight) (all DC 15).
•  Ask for help from Ottily Riverbend (CN female 
shadow fey wizard 9), a good friend of Ambassador 
Thelamandrine and the current Master of Star and 
Shadow Magic at the Arcane Collegium. She would 
certainly report this to the ambassador, but she 
might help regardless. A successful DC 15 Charisma 
(Persuasion) check would do the trick, or a scroll of 
shadow magic, or an offer to carry a message to her 
relatives in the courts (entirely innocuous, and dealing 
with a family trust and a suitor for her brother).
•  Ask for help from the retired Master of Star and 
Shadow Magic, Sariel of Morgau (NE human male 
wizard 9), who has gone to the nearby mountains 
and would require a three-day trip to see. Requires 
Charisma (Persuasion) (DC 16) or a gift of some 
minor magic, or perhaps a philter of memory or 
another gift.
Overall Success: Award the party 1,000 XP for 
succeeding in the challenge. If the group agrees to 
record the ritual for the library (and provides a blank 
book for the purpose), a member of the Collegium 
suggests the party take a chapbook of cure moderate 
wounds (containing 25 scrolls of that spell in a single 
bound volume) with them. One of the Collegium’s 
treasures from the days when sorcery was used to keep 
shadow fey from ambushing caravans, it might help in a 
place where the flow of time can be erratic.
Overall Failure: The characters experience an additional 
encounter while traveling the Shadow Road.
Information Gained from Successful Checks
•  A few possible sites exist for the ritual throughout 
Zobeck—what signifies them is not always clear. 
•  One promising site is the Lych Gate, an old temple 
gate that was incorporated into the Ghetto Wall.
•  A spinning lantern must be used in the casting.
•  The full text of the ritual isn’t recorded in the library. A 
fey might barter the details in exchange for something.
•  Two sluagh, fey spirits of unclaimed souls, are known 
to live in Zobeck. One of them, Knuckletooth, told a 
Collegium apprentice about the ritual years ago. The 
apprentice long since left for distant Siwal, and the 
records aren’t in the library . . . but the sluagh might 
still live in town. You could ask it. 
Bonus Information Gained from  
Overall Success
•  The Lych Gate can somehow be activated to show 
images or scenes.
•  There is both a time and sacrificial component to the 
ritual.
•  Choosing the correct site is often crucial to performing 
a fey ritual.
LYCH GATE
The adventurers find a ruined gate incorporated into the 
wall surrounding the Kobold Ghetto. The engraved stone 
pillars and carved gabled roof of the gate show worn 
scenes of travel, trade, and war. The gate is part of the 
masonry of the Kobold Ghetto wall. With investigation, 
hard work, and persistence, they decipher its clues and 
activate it—causing it to reveal tidbits of information 
that flash between passing shadows.
Overall Success Requires: 4 successes before 3 failures.
Possible Actions for Successful Checks
•  Decipher the faded fey symbols on the gate to activate 
it: Intelligence (Arcana), Intelligence (History), or 
Wisdom (Perception) (all DC 18).
•  Talk to people in the area and learn what might 
activate the gate: Charisma (Deception), Charisma 
(Persuasion), or Intelligence (Investigation) (all DC 13).
•  Use local legends to unlock the gate’s secrets: 
Intelligence (History), Intelligence (Religion), or 
Intelligence (Investigation) (all DC 18).
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 27 ---
26
Overall Success: Award the party 1,000 XP for succeeding 
in the challenge. When the characters succeed, they 
activate the gate and receive the following information:
•  The general location of the reluctant sluagh’s lair.
•  The sluagh’s name and face.
•  The Collegium library and the Hedgehog Tavern, 
frequented by students. 
•  Signs show the importance of light: one sequence 
starts black, grows to the barest sliver of the sun on 
the horizon, and then fades back to black. 
•  Carvings that show a woman weeping at the feet of a 
dead hanging man; the ritual might be related to death 
or grief in some way.
Overall Failure: The characters experience an additional 
encounter while traveling the Shadow Road.
Information Gained from Successful Checks
•  Two sluagh, fey spirits of unclaimed souls, are known 
to live in Zobeck. One of them, Knuckletooth, told a 
Collegium apprentice about the ritual years ago. The 
apprentice long since left for distant Siwal, and the 
records aren’t in the library . . . but the sluagh might 
still live in town. You could ask it. 
•  The Lych Gate is also known as the “Sluagh’s Window” 
because it will often show the sluagh, Knuckletooth. 
Occasionally, if asked, it will show the Dragged 
Woman (see the “Zobeck Canon” sidebar).
•  The Knuckletooth’s lair was burnt down to a ruined 
husk of a structure.
•  If the Collegium hasn’t been visited: the shadow fey 
are of particular interest to a group of Collegium 
apprentices. Otherwise: certain fey symbols on the 
gate are recognized as traveler’s marks that represent a 
river and a road.
•  The ritual must be performed just before sunrise or 
just after sunset.
THE RELUCTANT SLUAGH
Using details drawn from stories, old texts, and hidden 
locales, the adventurers discover the lair of a Sluagh 
native to Zobeck—a miserable creature with pale gray 
skin, stringy black hair, and jagged teeth in an oversized 
mouth. It is known as Knuckletooth. It lives within the 
burnt-out remnant of a house and appears from the 
shadows of corners or from the darkness beneath a 
rubble pile.
Overall Success Requires: 4 successes before 3 failures.
Possible Actions for Successful Checks
•  Barter with the sluagh for knowledge: Knuckletooth 
knows the ritual of memories lost (see page 29) and will 
perform it to share knowledge if offered a good trade: 
Charisma (Persuasion), Intelligence (Arcana), Wisdom 
(Insight), or Wisdom (Perception) (all DC 18).
•  Intimidate the sluagh for knowledge: Intelligence 
(Arcana), Intelligence (History), Wisdom (Insight) 
(DC 20); Charisma (Intimidation), Dexterity (Stealth) 
(DC 18).
•  Search for the sluagh’s lair: Charisma (Persuasion), 
Dexterity (Stealth), Intelligence (Arcana), Intelligence 
(History), Intelligence (Investigation), or Wisdom 
(Perception) (all DC 13). Only 1 success can be earned 
from this task.
•  Search the area for clues about sluagh: Dexterity 
(Stealth), Intelligence (Arcana), Intelligence (History), 
Wisdom (Perception), Wisdom (Survival) (all DC 18). 
Only 1 success can be earned from this task.
Overall Success: Award the party 1,000 XP for succeeding 
in the challenge. When the characters succeed, they 
befriend the sluagh and receive the following additional 
information:
•  Knuckletooth provides the remaining bare-bones 
aspects of the ritual, or fills in the gaps of what might 
have been learned at the Collegium. He says that the 
ritual requires a sacrifice—a confession of lost love or 
betrayal.
•  If the Collegium hasn’t been searched: Knuckletooth 
indicates that the library is often a useful place to learn.
•  Knuckletooth reveals the proper site for the ritual, 
beneath the pier.
•  If the Lych Gate hasn’t been visited: Knuckletooth 
indicates that it sometimes shows seekers useful bits of 
information.
Overall Failure: The characters experience two 
additional encounters while traveling the Shadow Road.
Information Gained from Successful Checks
•  Shadow fey enjoy intense emotions of suffering and 
loss. They barter in such emotions but have more base 
intentions, too.
•  If the Collegium hasn’t been visited: the shadow fey are 
a topic of particular interest to a group of Collegium 
students: “Go bother them.” Otherwise: certain fey 
symbols are recognizable in the graffiti drawn on the 
ruined house.
•  The sluagh prefers to speak Elvish.
•  The sluagh tells the adventurers they can expect to meet 
fey giants and shadow horrors on the Shadow Road.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 28 ---
27
BENEATH THE PIER
After investigating the various sites throughout Zobeck, 
the adventurers can attempt the ritual, powering it with 
the details gathered throughout their investigation. 
They acquire a longboat and row out beneath the river 
pier to the place they learned about from the sluagh. 
This challenge represents the difficulty in putting 
their newfound knowledge to practical use. Once they 
complete this challenge, whether they achieved an overall 
success or not, they need not go through this additional 
effort to use tread the Niflheim Road in the future. 
Ambassador Thelamandrine happens to be taking his 
evening constitutional along the quays and will stop 
to admire the river. He does not speak to the party 
directly, but he forces a goblin servant accompanying 
him to respond to characters’ questions, answering one 
per overall success they have achieved thus far. It’s a bit 
roundabout, but Thelamandrine wants to have as much 
plausible deniability as possible.
Overall Success Requires: 3 successes before 3 failures. 
Special circumstances apply in this case. Regardless of 
success or failure in this skill challenge, the characters 
learn the tread the Niflheim Road spell, thereby gaining 
access to the Shadow Road, and can transcribe it at their 
next opportunity. 
Possible Actions for Successful Checks
•  Keep the boat steady against the current while the 
character performing the ritual intones the mystic 
syllables to usher the group from this world to the 
Shadow Realm: Dexterity (Acrobatics) or Wisdom 
(Survival) (both DC 18). Characters who have 
proficiency with water vehicles receive a +5 bonus on 
this check.
Table 1–1: Shadow Ritual Failure
d6
Result
1
Bleaching. A character is drained of all pigmentation and color, appearing only black and white. Clothing 
worn by the character eventually becomes shades of gray.
2
Soft Speech. A character loses the ability to speak above a whisper and cannot be heard from more than 5 feet 
away.
3
Demi-shadow Dreams. Disturbing nightmares prevent any restful sleep sufficient to heal, regain Hit Dice, or 
recover spell slots during a long rest until the affected character makes three successful DC 15 Wisdom saving 
throws. The character can attempt one of these saving throws each time it finishes a long rest.
4 
Twitch Disease. The character suffers tremors and paranoia, and has disadvantage on saving throws against being 
frightened. When the character finishes a long rest, it can make a DC 13 Constitution saving throw. When it 
succeeds on two of these saves, it recovers from the disease.
5
Shadow Rot Disease. The character’s skin becomes ashen. When the character finishes a long rest, it must 
succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or take 10 (3d6) necrotic damage. Its hit point maximum is 
reduced by the amount of damage taken. If the creature’s hit point maximum is reduced to 0, the creature dies. 
It can’t regain its normal hit point maximum until it recovers from the disease. If the creature makes two saving 
throws against the disease, it recovers, and it can then regain its original hit point maximum when it finishes a 
long rest.
6
Shadow Twin. A character’s shadow detaches and becomes an undead shadow in every encounter until the 
character receives the benefit of remove curse, dispel evil and good, or similar magic. The shadow automatically 
surprises the party the first time it attacks.
KNUCKLETOOTH THE SLUAGH
Knuckletooth the sluagh is the fey spirit of 
an unclaimed soul, said to live in Zobeck and 
occasionally speak with people about the incantation. 
Like most of its kind, it has pale gray skin, stringy 
black hair, and jagged teeth in an oversized mouth. It 
loves the sound of crying children and has a taste for 
freshly butchered pigs’ knuckles.
	 It is one of the few fey in the city that ever show 
themselves, although it prefers to hide and speak 
from the shadows. When it speaks—in Elvish, of 
course—it likes to play games with questions. It is an 
ageless thing, a haunt of the city, and is quite cruel 
and secretive in its dealing with the city’s mortals—
but remarkably kind to children and animals.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 29 ---
28
•  Recall some of the ancient stories associated with the 
dark fey: dredging up the lost passphrases and songs 
help the party cross from this world into the Shadow 
Realm: Intelligence (History) (DC 15).
•  Utilize the tidbits of knowledge and magic gathered 
thus far: The ritual warps the shadows into a gate 
drawing the party into the Shadow Road: Intelligence 
(Arcana) (DC 15).
Overall Success: Award the party 1,000 XP for 
succeeding in the challenge. The ritual is successfully 
performed, and the characters are deposited on the 
Shadow Road. Proceed with Scene 7, Encounters along 
the Road.
Overall Failure: The characters are flung into the 
Realm of Shadow even though the ritual failed. They 
experience one additional encounter while traveling the 
Shadow Road.
Information Gained at the Pier
•  Motion is a necessary part of the ritual. One must 
travel from an illuminated space to a darkened space.
•  The fading light into darkness and the gradual 
reintroduction of light parts the veil between worlds.
•  Parting the wall between this world and the Shadow 
Realm requires pain or suffering of some kind.
•  Admission of a betrayal or a broken heart speeds the 
ritual, fueling the powers that make it possible.
•  If the confession comes from someone who is left 
behind rather than traveling, it is more potent.
•  Favored transit locations are marked with unobtrusive 
fey symbols. This pier has those symbols.
At your option, the party also suffers some more 
flavorful problems from Table 1–1: Shadow Ritual 
Failure. Either way, completing this check finishes 
the performance of the ritual and opens the gate. 
While open, the site permits travel to the Shadow (or 
Niflheim) Road, and the party can reach the courts of 
the shadow fey in the Shadow Realm.
The Shadow Road is a part of Midgard, connecting 
its various cities and castles in a magical web. 
Although most people have heard of the roads as 
fey or shadow work, few know much about how the 
Shadow Road works. Wizards, elf-marked humans, 
shadow fey characters, and bards might have additional 
information about it; if such a character asks about 
the Shadow Road, or a helpful NPC brings up the 
subject, consider allowing characters who have some 
connection to shadow roads and shadow magic to make 
an Intelligence (Arcana) check, gaining knowledge as 
indicated by the check total.
10 or 
lower
You really don’t know how the Shadow 
Road works.
11–15
Fey roads connect two points through 
magical travel. The two points are always 
set in advance, and the doors leading to 
them are never open for long.
16–20
The entrances to the Shadow Road are 
often sites where a murder, suicide, or other 
significant tragedy occurred.
21–25 
The destination of a fey road can be 
changed, but only by a fey or a powerful 
wizard. Most roads require a ritual or a 
magical key to open.
26+ 
Some roads are guarded, and others lead 
only in one direction. Option: Mention 
that in a few stories, the shadow roads in 
Zobeck are said to be near bridges.
Act I, Scene 7:  
Encounters along the Road
Travel on the Shadow Road should be memorable. 
You should choose one encounter for the road if the 
casting was successful and, possibly, one or even two 
more if casting the spell involved several failures. The 
possibilities are these:
Déjà-Vu in the Shadows (page below)
The Haunted Forest (page 32)
The Moebius Shadow (page 35)
All encounters on the road are subject to the following 
property of the Shadow Road:
Dim the Light. Any effect that deals radiant damage 
deals half damage to the target and half damage to the 
attacker as the shadowy road protects itself.
Bear in mind that in dim light, Wisdom (Perception) 
checks are made with disadvantage (resulting in a −5 
penalty to passive Perception scores).
ENCOUNTER A: DÉJÀ-VU IN THE SHADOWS
This encounter takes place near the Shadow Road 
and should either be run at a lower CR or after the 
characters have advanced to 8th level (which they might 
have done by this point). When the characters arrive in 
the shadow realm, they find themselves in the middle 
of the ruins mirroring Zobeck in the mortal world, near 
where they fought the shadow fey in Scene 1. Prowling 
the ruins are shadow-bound ghouls, and one of the slain 
assassins’ soul rises as a deathwisp. The Shadow Road 
stretches out in front of them, leading them through the 
maze of ruins rather than the houses of Zobeck.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 30 ---
29
FEY RITUALS
The shadow fey and other powerful, enigmatic wielders 
of magic have developed a few special spells known 
as fey rituals. They work just like other spells, with the 
exception that any creature capable of casting spells 
can learn to use a fey ritual if it discovers the ritual’s 
description, usually in a written form. A creature that 
knows a fey ritual can teach it to another. Whether a 
RITUAL OF MEMORIES LOST
4th-level enchantment (ritual)
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: Touch 
Components: V, S, M (a small pastry) 
Duration: Special
During the night of a new moon, you bleed upon the 
pastry component during the ritual. At the end of the 
casting time, you must make an Intelligence (Arcana) 
check against a DC equal to 10 + the target’s Charisma 
modifier. On a success, a humanoid target who willingly 
touches the pastry loses a memory from its life. The 
target chooses the memory it gives up. You infuse the 
memory into the pastry. The memory remains potent 
as long as the pastry remains fresh, usually for two days 
unless measures are taken to keep it from going bad. 
A creature that uses its action to consume the pastry 
permanently gains the memory as if it had experienced 
it originally. 
The target of the spell sacrifices the memory, losing 
it forever. Only a wish spell or similarly powerful magic 
can restore the lost memory, which also removes it 
from the creature that gained the memory. The target 
is disoriented, giving it disadvantage on ability checks, 
until it finishes a long rest. 
TREAD THE NIFLHEIM ROAD
4th-level conjuration (ritual)
Casting Time: 1 hour
Range: Touch 
Components: S, M (a lantern on a chain and a 
sackcloth bag) 
Duration: 1 minute
You can use this spell to open the entrance to a 
portion of the Niflheim Road, known more commonly 
to non-fey as the Shadow Road (or the fey road). The 
spell permits travel to designated locations within the 
Shadow Realm. The starting point in the mortal realm 
must be the site of a murder, a suicide, or another 
creature is taught by a mentor, or learns the ritual from 
a written source or other research, a creature must 
scribe the details into a book using special inks and 
reagents that cost 50 gp per level of the spell.
Once a creature has scribed a fey ritual, it can attempt 
to cast the spell as a ritual, even if it doesn’t possess the 
Ritual Casting feature.
significant tragedy. If you are in the Shadow Realm at 
the end point of a Shadow Road when you cast this 
spell, it opens a portal to the corresponding location in 
Midgard. 
When you are in a suitable location, you spin a lantern 
and lift it in and out of a bag of sackcloth, creating 
alternating light and shadow. At the end of the casting 
time, you must make a DC 15 Intelligence (Arcana) 
check. On a successful check, a 20-foot-radius shadow 
portal opens onto the Shadow Road for 1 minute. 
On a failed check, you take 11 (2d10) cold damage, 
you gain one level of shadow corruption, and you have 
disadvantage on any further Intelligence (Arcana) checks 
to cast this spell successfully until you finish a long rest. 
While the portal is open, any creature that enters the 
portal from either side appears at the other location 
1d4 hours later, along with anything the creature holds 
or carries, though to the creature it seems as though 
no time has passed. If the creature travels with several 
others, they all arrive in the same round and in the same 
sequence that they entered the road.
The destination of the road is always set when the 
portal opens—meaning that small variations of this 
spell exist that connect different starting points 
and destinations. You can spontaneously change 
the destination during the casting under certain 
circumstances. Those with fey blood can change 
the destination of the Shadow Road by making the 
Intelligence (Arcana) check with disadvantage. You must 
have visited the new destination before, not merely 
heard of it (a bartered memory is also sufficient; see 
ritual of memories lost).
Any number of creatures of any size can use an open 
road; the only limitation is the number that can reach 
and move through the portal before it disappears. 
Certain roads are guarded; others lead in only one 
direction. Anyone standing in the vicinity of either side 
of the portal sees a foggy road through a forest but 
gets no hint of the destination. Environmental effects at 
one side of the portal don’t affect the other end.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 31 ---
30
Wisdom (Perception) DC 15—This place amid the dark 
ruins is oddly familiar.
Intelligence (Investigation) DC 20, after successful 
Perception check—This place is similar to the area 
where you recently fought those fey assassins. 
Just after the adventurers recognize the place, read: 
A flash of light, like lightning but without thunder, rips 
through the pitch-dark sky and slams into the ground 
about forty feet away from where you are, among the 
ruins.
As the adventurers approach the spot where the light 
hit the ground, read:
As you near the place where the mysterious light 
touched down, you see darkness gathering, taking 
form. Slowly a shape rises from the dark mist covering 
the ground around you. Arms, body, and finally a head 
coalesce on the humanoid yet insubstantial body in 
front of you. Two points of pitch-black darkness stare 
at you from the places where its eyes would be.
Wisdom (Perception) DC 20—The shadow forming 
in front of you bears a resemblance to one of the 
fey assassins you killed recently. (A character who 
succeeds on the Wisdom (Perception) check has 
advantage on their initiative roll when the shadow-
creature attacks.)
The shadow-creature screams “Revenge!” before 
hurling itself toward the characters.
ENCOUNTER CHOICES
Hard—Gorak the Mad Ghoul, 1 mad ghoul, 1 deathwisp
Hard (8th-level characters)—Gorak the Mad Ghoul, 1 
darkness ghoul, 1 mad ghoul, 1 deathwisp
Hard (9th-level characters)—Gorak the Mad Ghoul, 1 
darkness ghoul, 1 mad ghoul, 2 deathwisps
Illumination. This part of the road is dimly lit out to a 
50-foot radius, with darkness beyond that. 
Rubble. Squares with rubble are difficult terrain. 
Walls. The walls in the ruins vary in height from 2 to 10 
feet. They are easy to climb (no ability check required), 
and ample cover and hiding places are available.
Gorak the Mad Ghoul
Medium undead, chaotic evil
Armor Class 14 (natural armor)
Hit Points 67 (9d8 + 27)
Speed 40 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
18 (+4)	
17 (+3)	
16 (+3)	
11 (+0)	
10 (+0)	
8 (–1)
Saving Throws Str +6, Con +4
Skills Athletics +6, Stealth +5 
Damage Resistances necrotic; bludgeoning, piercing, and 
slashing from nonmagical attacks
Damage Immunities poison
Condition Immunities charmed, exhaustion, poisoned
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 10
BECOMING SHADOW-TOUCHED
One of the most insidious dangers of traveling the 
Shadow Realm is shadow corruption. The dark power 
that infuses the entire plane is infectious. Creatures 
not native to shadow draw that power into themselves 
over time, and it begins to twist their own nature. For 
full information on shadow corruption, see Chapter 
10 of the Midgard Worldbook. Alternatively, you can 
use a simplified version of shadow corruption in this 
adventure, as described here.
For every week a non-native creature spends in the 
Shadow Realm, it must succeed on a DC 10 Charisma 
saving throw or become shadow-touched. The 
save DC increases by 1 for each previous successful 
saving throw. The DC returns to 10 when the creature 
becomes shadow-touched, or after it spends 1 week 
outside the Shadow Realm.
A creature that eats food or drinks water foraged 
from the Shadow Realm must attempt the saving 
throw the next time it finishes a long rest. 
A shadow-touched creature has disadvantage on 
attack rolls and Wisdom (Perception) checks while 
in sunlight, and grows sullen and withdrawn. The 
creature also has disadvantage on Wisdom and 
Charisma checks made against creatures that aren’t 
native to the Shadow Realm, or that aren’t shadow-
touched. Some denizens of the Shadow Realm might 
find shadow-touched creatures more interesting or 
compelling, sensing a kindred spirit. 
A creature is no longer shadow-touched after 
spending 1 week outside the Shadow Realm, or if it 
receives a dispel evil and good spell. 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 32 ---
31
Languages Common, Umbral
Challenge 4 (1,100 XP)
Reckless. At the start of his turn, Gorak can gain 
advantage on all melee weapon attack rolls he makes 
during that turn, but attack rolls against him have 
advantage until the start of his next turn.
Stench. Any creature that starts its turn within 5 feet of 
Gorak must succeed on a DC 13 Constitution saving 
throw or be poisoned until the start of its next turn. On 
a successful saving throw, the creature is immune to 
Gorak’s stench for 24 hours.
Turning Defiance. Gorak and any ghouls within 30 feet 
of him have advantage on saving throws against effects 
that turn undead.
ACTIONS
Multiattack. Gorak makes two attacks, one with his bite 
and one with his claws.
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
creature. Hit: 13 (2d8 + 4) piercing damage.
Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) slashing damage. If the target 
is a creature other than an undead, it must succeed on 
a DC 13 Constitution saving throw or be paralyzed for 
1 minute. The target can repeat the saving throw at the 
end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a 
success.
Darkness Ghoul
Medium undead, chaotic evil
Armor Class 13
Hit Points 45 (7d8 + 14)
Speed 30 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
12 (+1)	 16 (+3)	
14 (+2)	
9 (–1)	
10 (+0)	
16 (+3)
Skills Stealth +5 (+7 in dim light or darkness)
Damage Immunities necrotic, poison
Condition Immunities charmed, exhaustion, poisoned
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 10
Languages Common, Umbral
Challenge 4 (1,100 XP)
Shadow Stealth. While in dim light or darkness, the 
ghoul can take the Hide action as a bonus action.
Sunlight Weakness. While in sunlight, the ghoul has 
disadvantage on attack rolls, ability checks, and saving 
throws.
ACTIONS
Multiattack. The ghoul makes two attacks, one with its 
bite and one with its claws.
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
creature. Hit: 10 (2d6 + 3) piercing damage.
Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 8 (2d4 + 3) slashing damage. If the target is a 
creature other than an elf or an undead, it must succeed 
on a DC 12 Constitution saving throw or be paralyzed 
for 1 minute. The target can repeat the saving throw at 
the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself 
on a success.
Shadow Bolt. Ranged Spell Attack: +5 to hit, range 60 
ft., one creature. Hit: 17 (5d6) cold damage. The target 
must succeed on a DC 13 Constitution saving throw or 
become blinded for 1 minute. The target can repeat the 
saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the 
effect on itself on a success.
Mad Ghoul
Medium undead, chaotic evil
Armor Class 12 (natural armor)
Hit Points 44 (8d8 + 8)
Speed 30 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
13 (+1)	 15 (+2)	
13 (+1)	
7 (–2)	
10 (+0)	 6 (–2)
Skills Stealth +4
Damage Immunities poison
Condition Immunities charmed, exhaustion, poisoned
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 10
Languages Common, Umbral
Challenge 3 (700 XP)
Reckless. At the start of its turn, the ghoul can gain 
advantage on all melee weapon attack rolls it makes 
during that turn, but attack rolls against it have 
advantage until the start of its next turn.
ACTIONS
Multiattack. The ghoul makes two attacks, one with its 
bite and one with its claws.
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
creature. Hit: 11 (2d8 + 2) piercing damage.
Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 9 (2d6 + 2) slashing damage. If the target is a 
creature other than an elf or an undead, it must succeed 
on a DC 11 Constitution saving throw or be paralyzed 
for 1 minute. The target can repeat the saving throw at 
the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself 
on a success.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 33 ---
32
Deathwisp
Medium undead, neutral evil
Armor Class 15
Hit Points 82 (11d8 + 33)
Speed 0 ft., fly 60 ft. (hover)
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
6 (–2)	
20 (+5)	
16 (+3)	
18 (+4)	
16 (+3)	 20 (+5)
Saving Throws Dex +8, Con +6, Wis +6
Skills Perception +6, Stealth +8
Damage Resistances acid, cold, fire, lightning, thunder; 
bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing from nonmagical 
weapons that aren’t silvered
Damage Immunities necrotic, poison
Condition Immunities charmed, exhaustion, grappled, 
paralyzed, petrified, poisoned, prone, restrained
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 16
Languages the languages it knew in life
Challenge 7 (2,900 XP)
Flicker. The deathwisp flickers in and out of sight, 
and ranged weapon attacks against it are made with 
disadvantage.
Incorporeal Movement. The deathwisp can move 
through other creatures and objects as if they were 
difficult terrain. It takes 5 (1d10) force damage if it ends 
its turn inside a solid object.
Shadow Jump. A deathwisp can travel between shadows 
as if by means of dimension door. This magical transport 
must begin and end in an area with at least some 
shadow. It can jump up to a total of 40 feet per day. This 
ability must be used in 10-foot increments.
Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the deathwisp 
has disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks that rely on sight. 
Unnatural Aura. Animals do not willingly approach 
within 30 feet of a deathwisp, unless a master succeeds 
on a DC 15 Wisdom (Animal Handling) check.
ACTIONS
Life Drain. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., 
one target. Hit: 36 (7d8 + 5) necrotic damage. The target 
must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw, or 
its hit point maximum is reduced by an amount equal to 
the damage taken. This reduction lasts until the target 
finishes a long rest. The target dies if this effect reduces 
its hit point maximum to 0.
Create Deathwisp. The deathwisp targets a humanoid 
within 10 feet of it that died violently less than 1 minute 
ago. The target’s spirit rises as a wraith in the space 
of its corpse or in the nearest unoccupied space. This 
wraith is under the deathwisp’s control. The deathwisp 
can keep no more than five wraiths under its control at 
one time.
The deathwisp engages the adventurer who appears to 
be the most capable swordsman. 
The ghouls have been following the smell of fresh 
mortal meat. They sneak in, and if no one sees or hears 
them, they surprise the party. The darkness ghouls 
move to get clear shots with their shadow bolts to blind 
armored characters, while the mad ghouls jump from 
the walls, assaulting unarmored targets. 
Gorak, despite being fairly bright for a mad ghoul, 
wades right into combat, eager to inflict as much pain as 
possible. He tries to position himself adjacent to several 
creatures, to paralyze as many foes as he can. During 
any fight, he loudly describes in detail how he plans to 
eat his target, a favorite tactic of his when an adjacent 
enemy is knocked prone. He often rages and risks his 
own safety to kill an unconscious or paralyzed target.
Development
Proceed either to Act II (if the spellcasting was 
performed without flaws) or to the next encounter, “The 
Haunted Forest,” (if the spellcasting failed on the first 
try, attracting more attention, or if the party is not yet 
8th level). Remember that time does not pass normally 
on the Shadow Road, so casters will need to ration their 
resources. Pay close attention to the group’s mood and 
be ready to move forward. The characters should be 8th 
level as they begin Act II. 
ENCOUNTER B: THE HAUNTED FOREST
The Shadow Road enters a section of thick forest, and a 
thin mist rises from the ground. The trees cut what little 
light shines into a deeper gloom. Something is crashing 
through the undergrowth, and then it comes out onto 
the road: a dark-haired giant in rags, holding spears 
that shine with a baleful red light. Groans echo in the 
undergrowth to either side of the road.
ENCOUNTER CHOICES
Medium—2 forest marauders, 1 shadow hound
Hard—2 forest marauders, 1 shadow beast
Deadly (8th-level characters)—2 forest marauders, 1 
shadow beast, 2 shadow hounds
Illumination. This part of the Shadow Road is dimly 
lit. The entire area is lightly obscured, imposing 
disadvantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks.
Pits. The marked pits are 40 feet deep and contain 
spikes; they are too small for a forest marauder to fall 
into, and the shadow beasts float over them. Only 
the shadow hounds can fall into one. A creature that 
falls into the pits takes 14 (4d6) bludgeoning damage 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 34 ---
33
from the fall plus 11 (2d10) piercing damage from 
the spikes, and is knocked prone and restrained, 
impaled by spikes. The creature takes 5 (1d10) 
piercing damage at the start of its turn as long as 
it is restrained. It can free itself as an action with a 
successful DC 15 Strength (Athletics) check.
Undergrowth. Branches and undergrowth interfere with 
targeting: all ranged attacks have their range reduced 
by 10 feet. In the first round, ranged attacks by the 
characters might fail automatically if they try to shoot 
at maximum range. After the first round, tell the players 
that the forest terrain hampers their ranged attacks. 
White Stones on the Hill. The marauders and the hounds 
attack first, pushing and sliding one or two foes 
toward a small hill. Three enormous white stones 
stand there, forming a rough doorway. Creatures that 
are pushed through the threshold disappear from the 
Shadow Road and arrive alone at the Invisible Court 
(see Act II, page 38). They are marked with two black 
eyes—a “haunt mask”—which the courtiers recognize 
as a sign of weakness. The haunt mask remains until 
the Feast (see Act III, Scene 1) or until the character 
wins a duel with a shadow fey courtier.
UNUSUAL INSPIRATION
Inspiration can come from anywhere. This encounter 
was inspired by an eighty-year-old movie: Snow 
White. In particular, the initial “terror in the forest” 
sequence, full of eyes, claws, darkness, and pits, 
made me think that the forest should push the party 
around a little here.
The idea that the Shadow Realm should be a 
frightening place is pretty well established in game 
lore, but I thought it would be good to model 
something along those lines in game terms. Since 
characters rarely run, forced movement is a crucial 
part of the scene; the haunts and marauders can 
“herd” the party toward the white stones and pits.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 35 ---
34
Forest Marauder
Large giant, chaotic evil
Armor Class 15 (natural armor) 
Hit Points 114 (12d10 + 48)
Speed 40 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
21 (+5)	 10 (+0)	
18 (+4)	
6 (–2)	
10 (+0)	 7 (–2)
Saving Throws Con +6
Senses darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 10
Languages Giant, Orcish, Sylvan
Challenge 4 (1,100 XP)
Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the forest 
marauder has disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on 
Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight.
ACTIONS
Multiattack. The forest marauder makes two boar spear 
attacks.
Boar Spear. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 10 ft., 
one target. Hit: 16 (2d10 + 5) piercing damage, and the 
forest marauder can choose to push the target 10 feet 
away if the target fails a DC 16 Strength saving throw. 
Rock. Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, range 30/120 ft., 
one target. Hit: 19 (3d8 + 5) bludgeoning damage. 
Shadow Beast
Medium fey, chaotic evil
Armor Class 15 
Hit Points 90 (12d8 + 36)
Speed 0 ft., fly 40 ft. (hover)
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
6 (–2)	
20 (+5)	
17 (+3)	
14 (+2)	
14 (+2)	 19 (+4)
Saving Throws Dex +7, Con +6
Skills Stealth +7
Damage Resistances acid, cold, fire, lightning, thunder; 
bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing from nonmagical 
attacks 
Damage Immunities necrotic, poison
Condition Immunities charmed, exhaustion, grappled, 
paralyzed, petrified, poisoned, prone, restrained
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 12
Languages Common, Elvish, Umbral, Void Speech
Challenge 7 (2,900 XP)
Incorporeal Movement. The shadow beast can move 
through other creatures and objects as if they were 
difficult terrain. It takes 5 (1d10) force damage if it ends 
its turn inside an object.
Innate Spellcasting. The shadow beast’s innate 
spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 15). It can 
innately cast the following spells, requiring no material 
components: 
3/day each: fear, telekinesis
Magic Resistance. The shadow beast has advantage on 
saving throws against spells and other magical effects. 
Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the shadow beast 
has disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks that rely on sight.
ACTIONS
Multiattack. The shadow beast makes three attacks: one 
with its bite and two with its claws.
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
creature. Hit: 14 (2d8 + 5) piercing damage. 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 36 ---
35
Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
creature. Hit: 16 (2d10 + 5) slashing damage. 
Shadow Push (Recharge 5–6). The shadow beast buffets 
opponents with a gale of animated shadows in a 15-foot 
cone. Any creatures in the area must succeed on a DC 
15 Strength saving throw or be pushed back 10 feet and 
knocked prone.
Shadow Hound
Medium fiend, neutral evil
Armor Class 14 (natural armor) 
Hit Points 75 (10d8 + 30)
Speed 50 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
20 (+5)	
15 (+2)	
17 (+3)	
4 (–3)	
12 (+1)	 13 (+1)
Skills Perception +4, Stealth +5 (+8 in dim light or 
darkness)
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 12
Languages —
Challenge 5 (1,800 XP)
Keen Smell. The shadow hound has advantage on 
Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on smell.
Shadow Stealth. While in dim light or darkness, the 
hound can take the Hide action as a bonus action.
Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the shadow 
hound has disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on 
Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight.
ACTIONS
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
creature. Hit: 21 (3d10 + 5) piercing damage. The target 
must succeed on a DC 16 Strength saving throw or be 
knocked prone.
Shadow Wave. Ranged Spell Attack: +5 to hit, range 10 
ft., one creature. Hit: The creature is pushed 5 feet away 
from the shadow hound.
ENCOUNTER C: THE MOEBIUS SHADOW
This section of the road passes through a mountain. As 
the adventurers enter the mountain, read the following: 
The magical road enters a tunnel bored into the 
mountainside. Matte walls of crumbling stone replace 
the dimly perceived vistas of the Shadow Realm.
After the party has traveled for another 10 minutes, 
the road becomes a Moebius strip. 
Wisdom (Perception) DC 18—The road twists slightly 
underfoot. It looks perfectly straight and level but 
seems strangely off balance. 
The adventurers are now trapped within a loop: 30 
squares of travel in either direction brings them back 
to the location of the shadowrock render (or renders). 
When the party can see the monster, read the following: 
Ahead stands a whirling monstrosity, looking like a 
crying shadow crushed by watching its first death, talons 
honed to razor points and mouths drooling hungrily.
ENCOUNTER CHOICES
Hard—Thuvis Cloudshadow, 1 darkstone sculptor, 1 
shadowrock render
Deadly (8th-level characters)—Thuvis Cloudshadow, 1 
darkstone sculptor, 2 shadowrock renders
Deadly (9th-level characters)—Thuvis Cloudshadow, 1 
darkstone sculptor, 3 shadowrock renders
Running the Moebius Strip
A Moebius strip is a topological oddity—a strip of 
material with only one side. The best way to understand 
it is to make one. Take a long, narrow strip of paper, twist 
one end 180 degrees, and tape the two ends together. You 
can run your finger along the surface of the strip in one 
direction and travel along both sides of the strip. To a 
character walking along the Moebius strip, the path will 
seem to be a loop. However, a creature at the beginning 
of the strip and another one halfway along it are actually 
separated only by the thickness of the strip itself.
The Moebius strip that represents this portion of the 
Niflheim Road is 25 feet wide and 400 feet long. The 
easiest way to track the movements of creatures on 
the strip is to draw it as two long rectangles, a top and 
a bottom, each with ends A and B. Creatures leaving 
endpoint B on the top rectangle reappear at endpoint A 
on the bottom rectangle. Number the rows of squares 
from 1 to 40. Each row is on opposite faces of the 
Moebius strip.
However, recall that creatures on different faces of 
the loop are upside down relative to one another, and 
that “left” and “right” change directions when a traveler 
moves along the strip due to the twist in space. In other 
words, a character teleporting or moving by misty step 
through the road from the right-hand side of row 1 
on the top rectangle will appear on the left-hand side 
of row 1 on the bottom. Because this geometry is not 
intuitive but becomes clear with experience, you might 
want to practice this encounter before introducing it to 
the players.
Once the characters have observed some clue indicating 
that the loop is actually a Moebius strip, they can deduce 
its nature with a successful DC 20 Intelligence (Arcana) 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 37 ---
36
or Wisdom (Survival) check. Show the players your 
model of a Moebius strip so they can more easily grasp 
the tactical possibilities.
Illumination. Dim light suffuses this section of the 
Shadow Road. Neither mundane light sources nor 
magical light of lower than 4th level increases the level 
of illumination. No matter how bright a source of light 
might be, visibility on the Moebius strip is limited to 
60 feet. Beyond that, everything fades into darkness in 
a way that is disorienting to look at for too long. 
Edges of the Road. The road passes through a mass of 
dull black shadowstone. Oddly, shadows don’t show 
up on the surface of the stone.
Ceiling. The ceiling is 20 feet high.
Gravity. Gravity pulls creatures toward the road all 
along the strip.
Shadow-Wise Creatures. Certain creatures, called 
shadow-wise because of their affinity for shadows or 
their actual shadowy nature, have an advantage over 
others in how they can interact with the Moebius strip. 
A creature is shadow-wise if it is a native of the Shadow 
Realm, if it has any levels of shadow corruption (see 
the Midgard Worldbook, page 415), or if the creature 
has shadow-based powers (such as those granted by 
the Way of Shadow monastic tradition).
Seeing through the Road. The shadowy material that 
makes up the road is not opaque. Characters with 
darkvision or any other ability to see in darkness 
can see through the road by taking the Search action 
and succeeding on a DC 20 Wisdom (Perception) 
check; shadow-wise creatures have advantage on this 
check. A creature’s passive Perception score applies 
after it has seen through the road. The substance of 
the road lightly obscures the view of what lies on the 
other side. (Note that the upside-down orientation of 
creatures on the other side of the loop provides a hint 
to the nature of the Moebius strip.)
Attacking through the Road. Spells or effects that 
emanate from a creature, such as auras, pass through 
the road as if it were not there. Creatures that can see 
through the road can attack through it as if it were not 
there. Against other spells, attacks, or effects (such as 
breath weapons), the road provides total cover.
Passing through the Road. Shadow-wise creatures can 
pass through the road as if it were a 5-foot-thick 
patch of difficult terrain. All other creatures must 
use some kind of teleportation effect to pass through 
the road normally, counting the road as 5 feet of the 
distance. Teleporting creatures that are not aware of 
the Moebius strip appear on the other side of the road 
upside down and immediately fall prone. Subsequent 
teleportation by the same character—or the initial 
teleportation by characters who are aware of the 
loop—doesn’t result in the creature falling prone. 
Creatures can’t be pushed or pulled through the road, 
nor can they end their movement within the road.
Thuvis Cloudshadow
Medium humanoid (elf), neutral evil
Armor Class 19 (studded leather, haste)
Hit Points 117 (18d8 + 36)
Speed 60 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
13 (+1)	 20 (+5)	
14 (+2)	
13 (+1)	
12 (+1)	 16 (+3)
Saving Throws Dex +8, Con + 5, Wis +4, Cha +6
Skills Arcana +4, Deception +6, Perception +4, Stealth +8
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 14
Languages Common, Elvish, Umbral
Challenge 7 (2,900 XP)
Evasion. If Thuvis Cloudshadow is subjected to an effect 
that allows him to make a Dexterity saving throw to take 
only half damage, he instead takes no damage if he 
succeeds on the saving throw, and only half damage if 
he fails. 
Fey Ancestry. Thuvis Cloudshadow has advantage on 
saving throws against being charmed, and magic can’t 
put him to sleep.
Innate Spellcasting. Thuvis Cloudshadow’s innate 
spellcasting ability is Charisma. He can cast the following 
spell innately, requiring no material components.
3/day: misty step (when in shadows, dim light, or 
darkness only)
Quick Blood. Thuvis Cloudshadow is constantly 
under the effect of a haste spell that doesn’t require 
concentration and can’t be dispelled. His statistics 
include the benefits of the spell. He has advantage on 
Dexterity saving throws, and he gains one additional 
action on his turn that can be used only to take the 
Attack (one weapon attack only), Dash, Disengage, Hide, 
or Use an Object action.  
	
Additionally, he can add his Dexterity modifier to 
attack and damage rolls with melee weapons instead of 
Strength (included in his attacks).
Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, Thuvis 
Cloudshadow has disadvantage on attack rolls and on 
Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight.
Traveler in Darkness. Thuvis Cloudshadow has 
advantage on Intelligence (Arcana) checks made to know 
about shadow roads and shadow magic spells or items.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 38 ---
37
ACTIONS
Multiattack. Thuvis Cloudshadow makes two glaive 
attacks.
Glaive. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 10 ft., one 
target. Hit: 10 (1d10 + 5) slashing damage plus 7 (2d6) 
poison damage.
REACTIONS
Parry. Thuvis Cloudshadow adds 3 to his AC against one 
melee attack that would hit him. To do so, he must see 
the attacker and be wielding a melee weapon.
Darkstone Sculptor
Large elemental, neutral evil
Armor Class 17 (natural armor)
Hit Points 126 (12d10 + 60)
Speed 30 ft., burrow 30 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
20 (+5)	
8 (–1)	
20 (+5)	
5 (–3)	
11 (+0)	
5 (–3)
Damage Vulnerabilities fire
Damage Resistances bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing 
from nonmagical attacks
Damage Immunities acid, cold, poison
Condition Immunities exhaustion, paralyzed, petrified, 
poisoned, unconscious
Senses darkvision 60 ft., tremorsense 60 ft., passive 
Perception 10
Languages Terran, Umbral, telepathy 60 ft.
Challenge 5 (1,800 XP)
Earthglide. The sculptor can burrow through nonmagical, 
unworked earth and stone. While doing so, the creature 
doesn’t disturb the material it moves through.
Earthsprint (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). The 
sculptor can increase its burrow speed to 180 feet until 
the end of its next turn. 
Hatred. The sculptor has advantage on attack rolls 
against dwarves and gnomes.
Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the sculptor 
has disadvantage on attack rolls and on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks that rely on sight.
ACTIONS
Multiattack. The sculptor makes two slam attacks.
Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 10 ft., one 
target. Hit: 14 (2d8 + 5) bludgeoning damage. If the 
target is a creature, it is grappled (escape DC 15). 
Shadowrock Render
Large elemental, neutral evil
Armor Class 14 
Hit Points 68 (8d10 + 24)
Speed 0 ft., fly 40 ft. (hover)
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
5 (–3)	
19 (+4)	
16 (+3)	
10 (+0)	
11 (+0)	 8 (–1)
Damage Resistances acid, fire, lightning, thunder; 
bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing from nonmagical 
attacks
Damage Immunities cold, necrotic, poison
Condition Immunities exhaustion, grappled, paralyzed, 
petrified, poisoned, prone, restrained, unconscious
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 10
Languages Terran, Umbral, telepathy 60 ft.
Challenge 5 (1,800 XP)
Incorporeal Movement. The render can move through 
other creatures and objects as if they were difficult 
terrain. It takes 5 (1d10) force damage if it ends its turn 
inside an object.
Regeneration. The render regains 10 hit points at 
the start of its turn. If the render takes fire or radiant 
damage, this trait doesn’t function at the start of the 
render’s next turn. The render dies only if it starts its 
turn with 0 hit points and doesn’t regenerate.
Sunlight Hypersensitivity. The render takes 20 radiant 
damage when it starts its turn in sunlight. While in 
sunlight, it has disadvantage on attack rolls and ability 
checks.
ACTIONS
Multiattack. The render makes two claw attacks.
Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) slashing damage. A creature 
hit by two claw attacks in the same turn takes an extra 
14 (4d6) necrotic damage. The target must succeed 
on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw or its hit point 
maximum is reduced by an amount equal to the necrotic 
damage taken. This reduction lasts until the creature 
finishes a long rest. The target dies if this effect reduces 
its hit point maximum to 0.
The creatures in this encounter can all see through 
the road. The renders begin in a rough row awaiting 
the party’s advance. The darkstone sculptor begins 
combat across the loop—in other words, through the 
floor—from the characters, positioned so it can move 
in to support the renders after they engage. Thuvis 
Cloudshadow begins behind the sculptor and passes 
through the Niflheim Road to a position behind the 
party after any renders attack.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 39 ---
38
The renders try to pin the party in one location with 
melee attacks. Thuvis Cloudshadow tries to get behind 
the party and use his mobility to strike and then retreat 
behind his allies. The sculptor concentrates its attacks 
on any dwarves or gnomes, or (if none are present) 
the apparent leader of the party. The sculptor tries to 
grapple one enemy and pull it through the road, to 
be attacked by a render. Once the separated enemy is 
defeated, the sculptor pulls another one through.
The darkstone sculptor and shadowrock renders fight to 
the death. If only Thuvis Cloudshadow remains, he flees 
(using misty step) when reduced to half his hit points. 
Treasure
If the characters defeat the darkstone sculptor, they find 
a twisted stone and a jeweled cameo. The stone is a piece 
of shadowstone formed into a Moebius strip. Breaking 
the stone (AC 18, 15 hit points) releases this section of 
the Niflheim Road from its topological prison, allowing 
the adventurers to continue toward the Shadow Court. 
A successful DC 18 Intelligence (Arcana) check reveals 
this fact, and detect magic reveals an aura of conjuration 
on the stone. 
The cameo is a mithral and onyx rendition of the 
Queen of Night and Magic. It is worth 7,500 gp on the 
Material Plane, but in the Shadow Court it could be 
traded for favor or Status.
Act II: The Invisible Courts
No man is so happy as he who lives under an illusion.
—Erasmus, In Praise of Folly
The characters’ trip along the Shadow Road ends, and 
they arrive in the Shadow Realm. The courts appear 
abandoned at first glimpse, but such is not the case. The 
welcome the characters receive depends on them as 
much as on the residents. 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 40 ---
39
The party should be 8th level as Act II gets under way. 
Characters should get an opportunity to level up when 
their journey concludes, because the threats will escalate 
as events continue to unfold.
A Fey Welcome
If the party includes a fey character (a drow, an elf, a 
gnome, or another character of fey heritage), read the 
following: 
The shadowy road ends at the bottom of a set of 
winding stairs carved out of a hillside, surrounded by 
fog and a dark forest. The dim light brightens for a 
moment, enough for you to see towers and walls on 
two hills to the right and left. The stairs lead up to a 
well-lit set of gates; lanterns hang around a pair of 
doors, and a large armored figure is holding the doors 
open.
Wisdom (Perception) DC 15—The halls and corridors 
seem abandoned, but you keep hearing laughter in 
empty rooms. 
A party that has a fey character can enter without 
incident; the monolith footman speaks to the characters 
in Elvish, saying, “The courts grant you one night’s 
rest; you must depart come morning unless you have 
business here.” 
If the party neglects to vacate the premises after 
finishing the rest, a footman comes to throw them out. 
Go to Act II, Scene 1 (see page 60). 
If the party has no fey characters, read the following:
The road ends at the bottom of a set of winding stairs 
carved out of a hillside; wisps of fog drift through a 
shadowy forest. The dim light is bright enough to 
see towers and walls on hills to the right and left. The 
stairs are slick stone and seem to lead up to the saddle 
between the hills, but you hear no sign of habitation. 
An armored figure stands before the gates, holding 
a brightly burning sword that lights up the palace 
entrance on the hilltop above you.
The figure does not admit anyone through the gate 
who doesn’t have a clear written invitation from the 
hidden ambassador in Zobeck or from another fey 
source. The priests of Porevit and Yarila in Zobeck 
might qualify, as would a drow, a shadow fey, an 
elfmarked human, an elf, or a gnome noble of the 
character’s home plane.
Wisdom (Perception) DC 15—The halls and corridors 
seem abandoned, but you keep hearing laughter in 
apparently empty rooms.
Pumping up the Atmosphere
A large part of this section is devoted to establishing an 
otherworldly tone and atmosphere. The characters will 
be looking for people, creatures, and reasons for why 
there’s no one here. The fey are not inclined to provide 
those answers. Tease the characters as long as you can 
with the sense that something exciting is just around the 
corner. Here are some possibilities:
•  The characters’ shoes and boots are all newly shined 
in the morning.
•  A character’s companion or familiar is gifted with a 
fresh griddlecake.
•  A lone candle is left burning in a room.
•  A fighter’s armor is shined and polished to a gleaming 
finish. 
•  Shifting, muttering shadows flicker, then turn to 
nothing when light is brought close. 
•  A book is left open that describes the various 
courtiers and welcoming rituals of the courts of the 
scáthsidhe. If a reader spends at least 1 hour with 
the book, the text begins to include mentions of the 
character and his or her companions, revealing their 
secrets, belongings, and stories of their past. The book 
is a fey prank, meant to stir rivalries and encourage 
dueling. Some of its stories are pure invention, and 
others are true. 
•  A small glass ball the size of an orange rolls along the 
floor near the characters; it glows with dim purple 
light. The ball seems intent on going in a particular 
direction, such as to the stables or down a set of stairs. 
It leads the characters wherever you would like them 
to explore. Someone who makes a successful DC 15 
Wisdom (Perception) check detects the distant echo 
of children’s voices speaking Elvish, although no 
children are visible.
Tracking. A character can attempt to find tracks, 
thereby penetrating the illusion of the halls, by making 
a successful DC 17 Wisdom (Survival) check. The check 
reveals that the halls are not abandoned—the character 
who succeeds can find footprints in places where the 
right conditions exist, such as in the dust of the dueling 
grounds (area 2) or in the rookery (area 43). Despite the 
great number of footprints indicating the presence of 
dozens and dozens of small creatures, no such creatures 
are to be found. Success on the check to find tracks 
also grants the character advantage on an Intelligence 
(Investigation) check to determine the true nature of the 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 41 ---
40
illusions that cloak the courts (see the “Investigation vs. 
Illusions” sidebar).
Shadow Corruption. Perhaps of great interest to 
newcomers to the Shadow Realm, the Shadow Court is a 
bastion against the insidious threat of shadow corruption 
(see “Becoming Shadow-Touched,” page 30). While 
within the majority of the Shadow Court, creatures don’t 
risk gaining shadow corruption over time. Eating tainted 
food brought in from outside the court is another story, 
and the Goblin Courts offer no such protection. 
Where Is Everyone?
The denizens of the Shadow Court pay no attention 
to creatures of low Status or the uninvited, and the 
ambassador has not given the party an invitation to visit 
the palace. (He invited them to his house in Zobeck only 
because he’s not foolish enough to provide a paper trail 
that would lead someone to accuse him of disloyalty 
or fraternization with humans.) So, the characters are 
among the uninvited, unless they happen to be carrying 
the letter from Ottily Riverbend to her brother (see page 
25), which is their only way to be “legitimately at the 
courts for some purpose,” and a minor one at that.
As a result, the place is cloaked in illusion, which 
provides the first layer of defense for the courts. 
The only living creatures visible to the party are the 
animated monolith footman minions (area 1 and 
elsewhere), the rooks in the rookery (area 33), the owls 
in New Moon Hall (area 5), and, after some successful 
encounters with the footmen, the lantern dragonettes 
(in various areas). A variety of mice, rats, white foxes, 
doves, and other small animals also prowl the halls, and 
some of these creatures might be shadow fey in disguise. 
Other creatures can sometimes be heard or noted 
tangentially, such as hounds howling or goblin servants 
singing or clapping or running. Every time a monolith 
footman is laid low, the characters (with a successful 
DC 20 Wisdom [Perception] check while far away) 
might hear hammering and see firelight flickering in the 
smithy as the goblin smith Tenpound Hammer (area 6) 
rebuilds the construct.
If the characters try to force their way in, they 
can certainly climb around or otherwise bypass the 
guardian temporarily. Once they are in the halls, the 
environment seems hollow and empty. Divination 
spells such as clairvoyance or scrying fail to reveal even 
a sliver of the truth about the place; they merely show 
the illusion at a distance. 
Within a few minutes of when they settle down for the 
night in an “empty” room, though, a footman arrives 
and demands they leave. Proceed with Act II, Scene 1 
(see page 60).
Status and Prestige among the Fey
In this adventure, Status is not an ability score but an 
earned characteristic that has direct consequences in 
play. Every person’s Status is a measure of one’s current 
position in the fey hierarchy of cliques and allegiances, 
keeping the “riffraff” from simply immediately walking 
up to the queen and demanding to be heard. That would 
be a major social failure and result in punishment and 
a decline in Status, unless the queen were somehow 
“defeated” by being forced to listen to interlopers. In 
general, then, Status provides a gate that filters the 
unworthy and opens a door to those who are sufficiently 
prestigious to merit attention. As a result, only those 
worthy of her time may speak with the queen, and this 
system models that social climbing through a simple 
rank system. 
Characters gain Status ranks through their actions; 
impressive actions garner greater prestige, honor, power, 
and influence among the fey. Modest increases in 
Status can be realized by joining various factions or by 
receiving a mark of distinction from a fey lord or lady.
STARTING STATUS 
Every character’s starting Status in the Shadow Court is 
equal to the character’s Charisma modifier, adjusted as 
follows:
•  If a character is a fey and has a title such as knight, 
duke, or king (subject to your approval for elves and 
gnomes), refer to Table 2–1: Titular Status and add 
INVESTIGATION VS. THE COURT’S ILLUSIONS
If the party makes little or no sense of the empty 
courts for a long period of time, give the character 
with the highest Intelligence (Investigation) modifier 
the honors: that character should be the first to 
notice something amiss in passing, assuming no 
active investigation of the phenomena has been 
conducted. This result does not mean, however, that 
the character sees through the illusions—just that they 
are recognized as illusions. The DC to recognize an 
illusion for what it is depends on the area of the courts: 
DC 15 in the Lower Halls, DC 20 in the Winter Palace, 
and DC 25 in the Royal Halls. Characters can attempt 
this check once an hour while actively investigating; 
simply staring at the same location continually does 
not warrant a second check.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 42 ---
41
Status ranks as indicated. (The shadow fey need not 
respect titles granted by others courts and kingdoms, 
but they generally do so out of courtesy.)
•  Add 1 for a character who bears an elf- or shadow fey-
crafted item, such as the bracers of defense from Freja 
(see page 21).
•  Subtract 1 for a character who has received a haunt 
mask (see “The Haunted Forest,” page 32).
•  Subtract 2 for a non-fey character (only elves, half-
elves, gnomes, elfmarked characters, and those of fey 
ancestry can avoid this deduction).
Table 2–1: Titular Status
Status Title
+1
Knight, Court Mage, Guildmaster/
Guildmistress
+2
Lord/Lady, Baron/Baroness, Archmage
+4
Duke/Duchess, Prince/Princess
+8
King/Queen, Emperor/Empress
All of the above notwithstanding, not every court 
follows the same rules, and different forms of nobility or 
different ruling groups might have different standards. 
The deduction for non-fey reflects the particular 
customs of the shadow fey. The shadow fey see 
themselves as wholly superior to others, so some visitors 
(those with Status of 0 or lower) are beneath their 
notice. It’s not that the shadow fey like other fey much 
better. It’s that they are biased against halflings, humans, 
tieflings, aasimar, dragonborn, dwarves, goliaths, 
roachlings, and others.
For the purpose of this adventure, most non-fey 
characters begin with Status 0 or lower, and most fey 
characters begin with Status of 5 or lower. Characters can 
earn increases in Status by taking actions in the courts 
to impress the fey. The following methods are generally 
available to all characters: joining in fey politics, wooing 
and winning courtesans or consorts, and dueling.
Status of NPCs. Any character can determine the Status 
of a member of the courts through careful inquiry and 
conversation followed by a successful DC 20 Charisma 
(Persuasion) check. Characters of fey heritage (elves, 
half-elves, and gnomes, elfmarked characters, and those 
of fey ancestry) have advantage on this check.
GAINING AND LOSING STATUS
Status—especially among the fey—can be quite fleeting: 
easy to gain (with a little luck), even easier to lose. 
Characters can lose or gain great amounts of Status in a 
single ill-considered act: a squire might become suddenly 
well-regarded after saving the king from harm in a 
hunting accident, or a foolish courtier might be tricked 
into insulting the queen’s costume at a masquerade and 
be summarily banished from the Royal Halls.
Tables 2–2 and 2–3 list many of the opportunities to 
gain or lose Status in a single night of activity. You can 
grant other Status awards or penalties as appropriate.
Table 2–2: Increasing Status
Status
Action
+1
Defeat a monolith footman  
(limit five times)
+1
Succeed on a Charisma (Persuasion), 
Charisma (Deception), or Charisma 
(Intimidation) check (limit once per skill)
+1
Succeed on an Intelligence (Arcana), 
Intelligence (History), or Intelligence 
(Nature) check (limit once per skill)
+1
Play a successful prank on a shadow fey 
(or on a servant, for those characters with 
Status of 4 or lower)
+1
Join the Ravens or the Lords of Light faction
+1  
or more
Woo and win a courtesan or consort  
(see page 84)
+2
Defeat the demon lord Akyishigal’s 
minions (see page 107)
+2
Receive a lantern dragonette (see page 47) 
as a gift from the Blood Royal
+3
Save a courtier from danger
+3
Prevent a brawl
+4
Join the Grey Ladies faction
+4
Bring the firebird (see page 118) to the court
+4
Give the firebird to the queen (cumulative 
with bringing to court)
+5
Become the demon lord Akyishigal’s lover 
(see page 107)
+5
Drink claret and/or go hunting with the 
Black Prince (see page 112)
+6
Defeat the Black Prince’s raven assassins or 
death butterflies (see page 116)
+7
Defeat Akyishigal (see page 109) and drive 
it from court
+8
Woo and win the Sapphire Courtesan  
(see page 84)
+9
Become the queen’s lover and favorite  
(see page 120)
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 43 ---
42
Table 2–3: Decreasing Status
Status Action
−1
Being the victim of a fey prank
−1
Attempting to browbeat or threaten the 
queen’s servants to gain an audience
−1
Killing more than a single goblin or other 
servant
−1
Associating with a vandal, arsonist, or 
murderer in the commission of crimes
−2
Fleeing a noble who seeks your arrest or 
imprisonment
−2
Being fooled by a fey illusion
−2
Seen sneaking into the palace over the walls
−2
Failing to win a courtesan/consort
−2
Killing more than five goblins or servants
−3
Attacking a lantern dragonette
−3
Brawling (involved in any general melee that 
draws a crowd)
−3
Killing royal ravens or a swarm of death 
butterflies
−3
Committing vandalism or arson in the courts
−4
Being caught sneaking into a restricted wing of 
the palace with a weapon, armor, or implement
−5
Declining a direct order from the Blood Royal
−5
Killing a lantern dragonette
−6
Killing the firebird
−7
Insulting the Blood Royal
−8
Threatening or attacking the queen
REQUIRED STATUS FOR CERTAIN ENCOUNTERS
A minimum Status is required for the characters to 
merit the attention of certain major NPCs at the courts 
and, thus, to gain exposure to important encounters, 
such as meeting Baron Suvid and perhaps a demon 
prince. And of course, in the longer term, the characters 
will want to meet the queen herself—but to have any 
hope of that, a character’s Status must be lofty indeed.
At a first approximation, characters will need a Status 
of around 26 to meet the queen, and a Status of 13 to 
woo the most junior courtesans and to duel some of 
the more powerful duelists. They need a Status of 11 or 
higher to be invited to join factions such as the Lords 
of Light and the Grey Ladies. The situation provides 
characters with incentive to duel, to win courtesans and 
consorts, and to politic with fey factions. Most players, 
once they understand how the system works, are quick 
to try to exploit it. Reward them with Status boosts, 
frustrate them with penalties, and see them contend 
among themselves to become famous and respected.
CONSEQUENCES OF HIGH AND LOW STATUS
When the characters arrive, they have done nothing and 
earned no respect, so the denizens of the Invisible Court 
largely ignore them. Servants are the first to notice the 
characters. Characters with negative or very low Status 
cannot even speak to the major nobles of the court; they 
are disregarded and quickly ushered out. 
The character with the highest Status (and being a 
fey breaks a tie) is always addressed first by the Status-
canny NPCs of the court and might be the recipient of 
special favors or advantages. Table 2–4 summarizes how 
the characters are regarded (if at all) by the members 
of the court, depending on the group’s current Status. 
As they improve their Status during the adventure, the 
higher-numbered entries on the table apply in turn.
STATUS BONUS TO SOCIAL ROLLS
In the courts, one’s Status is just as real and 
consequential as one’s skill with a sword. Characters 
with high Status can browbeat, impress, or threaten 
others more successfully than those with low Status can. 
These social weapons are available to characters as well, 
though they might not know about them at first.
A character of sufficient Status gains access to the 
following special abilities:
Courtier of the Shadows 
Prerequisite: Elf, fey, half-elf, or gnome; Status of 11 or 
higher
Before you make a Charisma (Deception), Charisma 
(Persuasion), or Charisma (Intimidation) check against 
someone of a lower Status, you can choose to gain 
advantage on the roll. You can use this ability a number 
of times equal to your Charisma modifier (minimum of 
once), and regain all expended uses when you finish a 
long rest.
Dominion of the Shadow Court 
Prerequisite: Elf, fey, half-elf, or gnome; Status of 21  
or higher
After you make a Charisma (Deception), Charisma 
(Persuasion), or Charisma (Intimidation) check against 
someone of a lower Status but before the result of the 
check is revealed, you can choose to gain a +5 bonus on 
the check. You can use this ability a number of times 
equal to your Charisma modifier (minimum of once), 
and regain all expended uses when you finish a short or 
long rest.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 44 ---
43
FEY TRADE AND BARTER:  
BODY, SOUL, AND MEMORIES
Among the fey, it is not uncommon to trade in the 
abstract and to make the arcane and the spiritual 
concrete and mercantile. Indeed, such activity is a large 
part of their dealings at various fairs (such as the Birch 
Queen’s Fair in Wrath of the River King) and of their 
trade with mortals. Fey prize mortal emotions and 
memories as “more authentic” or “primitive” compared 
to those of longer-lived creatures. 
GIFTS 
Gifts are benefits that improve skills, endurance, 
physical and mental prowess, even prestige—all the 
things associated with a particular individual’s success 
or growth over time. Haggling can be handled using the 
social interaction rules. A courtier whose Status is equal 
to or lower than the Status of the haggling character’s 
starting attitude begins with an indifferent attitude. A 
courtier whose Status is higher than the character’s is 
hostile; it might take services performed in the courtier’s 
favor to improve their attitude. The gifts that fey bestow 
upon one another, and upon others who impress them 
sufficiently, are of four basic types.
Gifts of the Mind and Body. A fey can trade his speed, 
fortitude, and so forth to another. These gifts must be 
given willingly and are usually exchanged between 
pairs of individuals. Each participant reduces one 
ability score by 1 or 2 and raises another ability score 
by the same amount, effectively trading points. In 
some rare cases, one party trades a gift of mind and 
body in exchange for crucial memories or learning. 
The exchange is permanent, and a given ability score 
can be changed only once per year in this manner. 
Gifts of Learning. These gifts are skill, language, or tool 
proficiencies, traded permanently or temporarily for 
a set purpose. A character who trades for learning 
gains or loses proficiency in the agreed-upon 
aspect. Among the fey, a few other “skills” are often 
bartered as well such as poetry, song, and crafting 
arts—even skill at dance or love. Loaning a poet’s gift 
of inspiration to another fey is considered a wildly 
romantic gesture.
Gifts of the Arcane and Divine. The shadow fey 
can trade spell slots, or uses of innate spellcasting, 
between themselves. The giver loses access to the slot 
or the use, and the receiver gains it. In the case of a 
spell slot, the giver chooses one specific spell, and the 
slot can be used only to cast that spell. The receiver 
must provide any components normally required for 
the casting. Once it is used, the gifted spell can’t be 
used again until the receiver finishes a long rest. 
	 Divine spells granted by deities (distinct from those 
available to rangers or druids) are not widely available 
among the fey and are highly valued as a result. 
Table 2–4: Current Status and Fey Behavior
Status
Behavior
0 or 
lower
Invisible. Not worthy of notice except by monolith footmen and empty cloaks. Only allowed in the Lower 
Halls (although it’s possible to climb over walls to other areas). 
1–5
Mostly Invisible. Sometimes worthy of notice by “animals,” court musicians, goblins, demon dogs, horses, 
and changelings.
6–10
Barely Acknowledged. Noticed by servants, young rakes, courtesans and consorts, and the elderly Grey 
Ladies, although treated condescendingly. Allowed into the true form of the Lower Halls and through the 
gate into the Winter Palace.
11–15
Respectable. Acknowledged but frequently insulted by noble courtiers. Not insulted by servants, rakes, 
courtesans, consorts, or Grey Ladies. Eligible to woo courtesans or consorts. Might be invited to speak to 
the demon lord Akyishigal and join its faction, or to join the Lords of Light and meet Revich the Blind 
Seer.
16–20
Honored Guests. Acknowledged by most courtiers except for the most senior, such as the prince and the 
demon lord. Not insulted by most courtiers. Greeted with bows and addressed as “Sir” or “Milady” by 
servants and marginal fey.
21–25
Noble Guests. Acknowledged by all courtiers, freely spoken to by the most senior courtiers. Treated with 
honor by young rakes, courtesans, consorts, and Grey Ladies. Might be invited to go hunting with the 
prince.
26 or 
higher
Persons of Royal Interest. Addressed respectfully by all fey. Might be invited to an audience with the 
queen. Possible romantic ties to the prince, the princess, the queen, or the demon lord.
 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 45 ---
44
Arcane and natural gifts are relatively common and are 
traded permanently or sometimes loaned. Failure to 
return a loaned gift might cause the culprit to wither 
and die or merely to twist to evil. It is considered a 
horrible sign to renege on such a bargain.
Gifts of Status. A character can gain or give away Status 
to a fey. This sort of event is quite rare (the fey view 
it as a major social occasion on par with a wedding 
or a funeral). The deed itself is a simple blood oath, 
followed by the giver kneeling before the recipient as 
the transfer of Status occurs—invariably accompanied 
by a loss of the giver’s vital essence as well. This 
loss manifests as a reduction in the gifter’s hit point 
maximum based on the amount of Status transferred; 
see the table below. One such gift can be made by an 
individual per month. Some of the most tragically 
romantic shadow fey tales tell of a lover who gave his 
life to elevate the Status of his paramour. 
Table 2–5: Gifts and Status
Status  
Points Gifted
Hit Point  
Maximum Lost
1–2
5
3–4
10
5–6
15
7–8
20
9 or more
25
Hit point maximum lost in this way can’t be restored 
by any means for a year and a day. Status granted in 
this way can never be returned in the same fashion; it is 
purely a one-way, one-time gift.
A Helpful Squire
Although the characters might get on well in the courts, 
the opposite could also occur. The rather senior squire, 
Scutaruis Thornwalker, is a helpful fellow who can answer 
questions—or who might take offense and challenge 
someone to a duel if the party insists on treating him as a 
servant. He’s visiting the courts from Castle Rivenwood, 
and constantly dreams of returning home.
SCUTARIUS THORNWALKER  
(ESQUIRE TO HOUSE RIVENWOOD)
As a young page in Castle Rivenwood, Scutarius was 
unlike his peers. He was short and muscular, shy and 
soft‑spoken—rather unusual and undesirable traits among 
the eloquent and elegant sidhe. Now, after centuries of 
loyal (and often bloody) service to Rivenwood, Scutarius 
sits as esquire to that noble house. He was the major 
domo of the castle staff as well as herald and master of 
horse and hound. A scarred and grim war dog himself, 
Scutarius is not one to be trifled with. While manipulating 
his own network of informants and agents, he continues 
to serve House Rivenwood loyally, though often under his 
own subtle terms and through his own private agendas.
Scutarius Thornwalker
Medium humanoid (sidhe), neutral
Armor Class 16
Hit Points 60 (7d8 + 28)
Speed 40 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
17 (+3)	 14 (+2)	
18 (+4)	
15 (+2)	
14 (+2)	 16 (+3)
Saving Throws Str +6, Dex +8, Cha +6
Skills Animal Handling +4, Deception +6, Intimidation +6, 
Perception +4
Damage Resistances bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing 
damage from weapons that aren’t magical, blessed, or 
made of cold-forged iron
Condition Immunities charmed, paralyzed, magical sleep 
effects
Senses darkvision 90 ft., passive Perception 14
Languages Common, Elvish, Sylvan
Challenge 6 (2,300 XP)
Fey Grace. Sidhe add their Charisma modifier to armor 
class, initiative checks, and Dexterity saving throws.
Spellcasting. Scutarius is a 7th-level spellcaster. His 
spellcasting ability is Charisma (DC 14, +6 to hit 
with spell attacks). He has the following druid spells 
prepared, plus several spells he has acquired as an 
initiate in the Cult of Valeresh, the elvish god of war:
Cantrips (at will): blade ward, mending, resistance, 
shillelagh
1st level (4 slots): animal friendship, purify food and 
drink, shield, speak with animals
2nd level (3 slots): animal messenger, heat metal, locate 
object, phantom steed
3rd level (3 slots): conjure animals, haste
4th level (1 slot): dominate beast
Magic Resistance. Scutarius has advantage on saving 
throws against spells and other magical effects.
Magic Weapons. Scutarius’s weapon attacks are magical.
ACTIONS
Multiattack. Scutarius makes 2 bill-guisarme attacks.
Bill-Guisarme. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 
10 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (1d10 +6) piercing or slashing 
damage, and the target creature must succeed on a DC 
15 Dexterity saving throw or be tripped and knocked 
prone.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 46 ---
45
Flicker and Fade. As a standard action, a sidhe can “leap” 
between spaces as if by dimension door. This magical 
“flicker” must begin and end within 30 feet of some 
discernible light source. A sidhe can “jump” a total of 30 
feet per day in 10-foot increments (that is, three 10-foot 
leaps or one 30-foot leap per day). Using this ability 
with a faerie mount brings the mount along as part of 
the movement.
Houndmaster’s Horn (2/day). Sounding this horn as a 
standard action conjures one of the following “hounds,” 
determined by a d10 roll: on 1–6, three (1d4 +1) blink 
dogs appear; on 7–9, two (1d4) dire wolves appear; 
and on 10, one winter wolf appears. Conjured creatures 
appear in an unoccupied space within 30 feet and 
remain for 2 (1d4) hours or until dropped to 0 hit points 
before vanishing. Conjured creatures are friendly to the 
horn blower and will obey commands that they can 
understand.
Rivenwood Regalia. This large magical battle standard 
bears the ancient crest of House Rivenwood and 
has the following properties. It grants the standard 
bearer a +2 bonus to Armor Class and the ability to 
use regeneration (as the spell) once per day when the 
bearer is within 10 feet of the standard. All allies within 
500 feet of the standard gain a +2 bonus on initiative 
checks and become immune to the charmed, frightened, 
and stunned conditions as long as Rivenwood Regalia 
remains visibly borne aloft. All enemies within 100 
feet that can see the standard have disadvantage on 
initiative checks and on any checks to resist fear.
FEY TREASURES:  
EMOTIONS WORTHY OF THE TOUCH
The greatest trick of some fey magic regarding gifts, 
memory, and emotion is the ability to give them 
physical form, using a spell like ritual of memories lost 
(see page 29). These are typically stored in cabinets 
as small bottles of liquid; when touching the bottle, a 
character can feel a tinge of the emotions kept in it. 
Philter of Memory
Wondrous item, rare
This swirling liquid is the collected memory of a mortal 
who willingly traded that memory away to the shadow 
fey. The shadow fey collects the offered memory and 
stores it in a vial carved of semiprecious gemstone worth 
250 gp. When you touch the philter, you feel a flash 
of the emotion contained within. You can unstopper 
and pour out a philter as an action unless otherwise 
specified. The philter’s effects take place immediately, 
either on you or on a creature you can see within 30 feet 
(your choice). If the target is unwilling, it can attempt a 
DC 15 Wisdom saving throw to resist the effect of the 
philter. A creature affected by a philter experiences the 
memory contained in the vial. A Mnemosyne philter 
can be used only once, but the vial can be reused to 
store a new memory.
Bonds of Friendship
You swore an oath of blood and mingled tears; both 
of you against the injustice of the shadow fey. Goblin 
blood held true, a dozen years of watchful friendship 
and laughter behind the courtier’s backs. No harm must 
come to your closest companion!
As a reaction when a creature you can see within 30 
feet targets you or an ally with a weapon attack or a 
spell, you can pour out the philter. The creature must 
succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or choose a 
different target. If it can’t or doesn’t choose a different 
target, the attack or spell is wasted. A creature that can’t 
be charmed is immune to this effect.
To create this philter, a humanoid must sacrifice a 
happy memory of a time with a friend.
Coward’s Shame 
You remember how the queen banished you for your 
cowardice and how the court laughed. Even your 
mother turned her back. You could not return to the 
courts until she died.
The target becomes frightened. While frightened in 
this way, it flees from you by the most direct route it 
can, and it can take only actions that facilitate its escape. 
If the creature ends its turn more than 30 feet away from 
you and can’t see you, it can repeat the saving throw, 
ending the effect on a success.
To create this philter, a humanoid must sacrifice a 
memory of a failure or embarrassment.
Youthful Joy 
You remember the sunshine and the shadows of the 
Margreve, picking bluebells as a young girl: the laughter 
of a child and the boundless strength of youth.
The target regains 3d8 + 6 hit points and removes one 
level of exhaustion.
To create this philter, a humanoid must sacrifice a 
favored childhood memory.
Raging Lust 
You tore her spider silk bridal dress in the treetops and 
dropped the shreds to the forest floor. You shook the 
leaves from the trees, and her cries set the birds to flight. 
You would have done anything she asked.
The target is charmed by you, until you or one of your 
allies does something to harm the target. If you are a 
kind of creature the target normally finds attractive, it 
treats you as the object of its desire while it is charmed 
in this way. You can make one suggestion of the target 
(as if using the suggestion spell). The target can repeat 
the saving throw when it finishes a long rest. On a 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 47 ---
46
failed save, it remains charmed and you can make 
another suggestion; on a successful save, the effect ends.
To create this philter, a humanoid must sacrifice all 
memory of a romantic partner.
Philter of Righteous Wrath
The queen’s rage swept everything before her, and you—
her champion—destroyed all you touched. Die, traitor! 
Die, faithless creatures! 
When you activate this philter, each creature other than 
you within 30 feet must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom 
saving throw or be overcome by burning ferocity. Until 
the start of your next turn, an affected creature must 
attack a foe if it is able, and every attack made by an 
affected creature that hits is automatically a critical hit. 
To create this philter, a humanoid must sacrifice all 
memory of a great victory in battle.
Philter of Widow’s Tears
She died in your arms, the glorious spider-maiden who 
spun your wedding vest and embroidered the lace you 
wore so proudly as the Statthalter of Corremel. Oh, that 
it should end thus. She was always the one who was 
meant to outlive your foolish plotting. 
A creature you can see within 30 feet is overcome by 
devastating grief. The target is stunned for 1 minute. 
It can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its 
turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. 
To creature this philter, a humanoid must sacrifice all 
memory of a deceased loved one.
Development
A party that uses items such as these might well 
encounter the person whose memories they consumed, 
for better or worse. In such a case, both sides might 
recognize what happened, as the shared memory sets 
up some sort of arcane resonance between the original 
creature whose memory was captured and the character 
who now remembers the event.
MORE FEY TREASURES
Much in the way that they use philters of memory, the 
shadow fey trade in the following forms of bartered 
memories, or even twists of fate.
Memories of Times Past. Some fey trade memories of 
important days, such as weddings, battles, or first kisses. 
These memories have whatever price one cares to name 
for them. In most cases, the memory of another such 
event is required in exchange.
Future Moment of Success. By agreeing to accept a 
failure on a future saving throw, you gain an automatic 
critical hit to use in the future. When you make a saving 
throw, the GM can declare it an automatic failure. In 
exchange, when you hit with an attack, you can choose 
to make it a critical hit. Each of these events can occur 
only once. 
Or, conversely, you can give up a future successful hit 
in exchange for a guaranteed successful saving throw. In 
this case, when you fail a saving throw, you can choose 
to succeed instead. And at some point in the future 
when you hit with an attack, even a critical hit, the GM 
can declare it an automatic miss. Each of these events 
can occur only once. The fey who makes the trade gains 
the “lost” critical hit or saving throw. 
Locations and Conditions  
in the Court
The Shadow Court is set up in three “islands” or 
sections, each built around a main hall with many 
side passages. These islands stand above the forest; the 
cliffs leading up to them are easily climbed but are also 
the home of several hundred shadows and dozens of 
deathwisps. The three sections are the Lower Halls, the 
Winter Palace, and the Royal Halls. Far below the castle 
is a dark forest whose roads lead to various points of 
interest in the Shadow Realm. 
Climbing the Walls. Characters can climb up and 
over the palace walls with little difficulty, if they have 
the right equipment. Without the aid of a rope and 
grappling hook, it requires a successful DC 20 Strength 
(Athletics) check to scale the walls. If the party does not 
exercise stealth in this effort, however, they immediately 
take a −2 penalty to Status. After all, only thieves, spies, 
and desperate lovers sneak into the palace. A successful 
DC 15 Dexterity (Stealth) check allows them to slip over 
the walls without notice. 
If the Dexterity (Stealth) check fails by 5 or more, 
guards are summoned. Otherwise, the Status deduction 
comes merely from being observed and gossiped about.
Guards. The monolith footmen found in various 
locations are attuned to the Status of visitors. If the 
characters have sufficiently high Status, the footmen 
ignore them. A Status of 6 or higher is required to avoid 
the notice of the footmen in the Lower Halls. In the 
Winter Palace and the Royal Halls, the requirements are 
Status 11 and 16, respectively. 
Goblins and Servants. For visitors of low Status, goblins 
are a useful source of information; they are short, puny, 
and easily cowed (with a successful DC 12 Charisma 
[Intimidation] check). At the same time, goblins are 
notorious liars and not truly cooperative even when 
threatened. Generally, they run away from any threat. 
Killing goblins or other servants is considered poor 
form, resulting in a −1 penalty to Status if more than 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 48 ---
47
one is killed and a −2 penalty for everyone involved in 
killing more than five of them.
As a courtier is likely to put it to a bloodthirsty 
character, “It is so difficult to find good help, and I 
understand you’ve been thinning out the herd lately. I 
quite understand: the terrible service, and the insolence. 
But, er, could you keep the discipline down to a 
thrashing? Goblins don’t grow on trees.”
Servants can retaliate against characters who mistreat 
them by spreading gossip, informing their masters of 
misdeeds by the characters (real or trumped up), and 
invoking the “goblin curse.” This form of rebellion by the 
servants might take the form of spoiled food, mundane 
items (such as shoes and hats) suddenly going missing, 
and other difficulties and inconveniences. When a 
“cursed” character makes a Dexterity or Charisma 
check, it must roll a d4 and subtract the result of that 
roll from the check. This effect lasts until the character 
makes a sincere apology or visits the Goblin Court (area 
8) and pays a fine commensurate with the offense.
Shadow Doors. A few of the doors on the map are 
marked as shadow doors; these include the Winter Gate 
(or Western Gate), the Eastern Gate, the Executioner’s 
Gate, and some of the interior doors, such as the 
entrance to the King and Queen’s Chambers (area 
61). Opening a shadow door requires a successful 
Intelligence (Arcana) check to determine the proper 
sequence of mystic passes and light flashes that opens 
and shuts it. The DC for each gate is given in the area 
descriptions that follow.
LANTERN DRAGONETTES
Lantern dragonettes are a form of pseudodragon with 
scales like tarnished silver; their belly glows from within 
with an orange light that gives them their name. This 
glow can be muted when they keep their scales laid 
flat, a bit like a lantern’s shutter; the glow is brightest 
when their scales are held away from the body. 	
   Lantern dragonettes create illumination as 
a continual flame spell, and they usually obey 
commands to dim their light when requested. They 
eat insects, mice, and small birds, as well as bread and 
scraps. The fey seem to have bred them for docility; 
the ones found within the courts have no effective 
attacks and flee when threatened. (If the information 
becomes needed, a lantern dragonette has AC 13, 
28 hit points, speed 15 ft., fly 40 ft., speaks Common, 
Draconic, Elvish, and Primordial, and has telepathy out 
to 60 feet.) For a resident or a guest, receiving custody 
of a lantern dragonette to accompany them and light 
their way in the palace halls is a sign of great favor 
from the royals; that character gains a +3 bonus 
to Status for owning a dragonette. Only about 
twenty dragonettes live in the palace, and they 
are treasured by most of the courtiers (kitchen 
staff are a notable exception). If a dragonette 
given to a character dies, the character takes an 
immediate −5 penalty to Status.
What is not known by any but the most senior 
among the fey is that the lantern dragonettes 
are spies for the Blood Royal. Each dawn, when the 
dragonettes have all dimmed their lights, they visit with 
the queen or the prince and tell the juiciest stories of 
the court’s doings, betrayals, romances, and feuds as a 
sort of bedtime tale. Many conversations told by lantern 
light are known to the queen by the time the dragonettes 
all go to sleep at noon. A few fey believe that the lantern 
dragonettes can serve as the eyes and ears of the Blood 
Royal more directly—that the royals can actually look 
through their eyes under certain conditions.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 49 ---
48
THE LOWER HALLS
1. Winter Gate (or Western Gate). The Winter 
Gate stands well guarded at the head of a long stair carved 
out of the cliff below the Winter Palace. Usually shrouded 
in mist and lit by a single oil lantern, the area seems 
almost abandoned. A monolith footman (see page 60) 
always stands guard inside the door; a small inset window 
can be opened to allow the footman to ask questions. The 
gate itself is a shadow door that can be opened with a 
successful DC 22 Intelligence (Arcana) check.
2. Dueling Grounds and Arcade. This field 
of pale greenish-gray grass is where children play, 
where duels are fought during dueling season, where 
lovers declaim poetry, and where captains drill their 
troops. Surrounded by the arches of a carved and leafy 
colonnade, the dueling grounds are almost always 
occupied by someone. The Royals and other fey of high 
Status visit this area only during dueling season. 
3. The Silver Tree. The courtyard’s main feature is a 
tree that has white bark and bears red and silver flowers. 
It is a favored spot for young lovers, courtesans, and poets 
(1d4 − 2 people are commonly found here). Lantern 
dragonettes often roost in the Silver Tree’s branches.
4. Ramp up to the Winter Palace. This is a steep 
and cobbled passage up to the Winter Gate: difficult 
terrain that might also be treacherously slippery due 
to fog, ice, or rain. Under those conditions, a character 
moving along the ramp must succeed on a DC 15 
Dexterity (Acrobatics) saving throw or slip and fall 
down on the steep cobbles, taking 1d12 damage (or 
2d12 if the save failed by 5 or more).
5. New Moon Hall. The hall where most visitors are 
first received is dimly lit and open to the air along the 
southern arcade. The hall is a bit of a maze, containing 
more than thirty striped marble pillars arranged 
irregularly. New Moon Hall is thronged with crows 
during the day and both forest owls and death butterflies 
at night, though they rarely trouble the fey unless a 
sleeping body presents an easy target. The hall smells 
vaguely of fox urine.
6. Smithy. This work area contains an anvil and an 
ancient bellows, and has an open floor plan to let the 
heat escape. The smith in charge of repairing swords 
and animated suits of armor here is Tenpound Hammer 
(better known by his nickname, “Nails”).
7. Kitchens. The master cook in charge here is Blazing 
Barda, a goblin, assisted by the orc butcher Skrazag the 
Meek. Things are plucked, stewed, and served as slop in 
very large quantities for the denizens of the Lower Halls. 
None of this food goes to the Royal Halls. Root cellars 
and wine cellars connect to these kitchens, but not to 
the Royal Halls, although some folk claim they can be 
used to reach the Goblin Court.
8. Goblin Court. The lowest and most vulgar of 
the fey courts is the Goblin Court, where Moggo the 
Chamberlain presides as “king.” In this chamber, he 
rules on issues that affect servants and low-Status visitors 
and enjoys behaving as a tyrant—the carpet before his 
“throne” is spattered with blood. Bribery, flattery, and 
outrageous betrayal are common activities in this court, 
and subtlety is almost unknown. (As long as the queen’s 
rolls are hot and the butter is sweet, she cares not what 
happens below.) The courtly audiences here are held at 
off-hours, when most servants sleep. The Goblin Hall 
extends along tunnels into the hill beneath the Winter 
Palace, although few know just how far those tunnels 
extend or that the goblins have their own dancing hall. 
All of the goblins in the Shadow Court are native to the 
shadow realm and immune to its corrupting qualities.
9. Lesser Guests’ Quarters. Each of these simple, 
tidy rooms contains a bed of linens laid over rushes, 
a pitcher of clean water, and a three-legged stool. The 
rooms cannot be locked. 
10. Stables. Goblin and changeling grooms watch 
over the black and white horses of the shadow fey 
nobles here. The biggest and best of the pens in the 
stable is the home of Lazulin, the blue horse of the 
royal family. The prince most often rides it, although 
some believe “it” is actually an entire herd of magical, 
sky-traveling steeds. Certainly, the king and queen are 
known to sometimes turn the horse into a pair, one 
gray and one azure, for their journeys among the clouds 
at the equinox, when the rulership of the Shadow 
Realm changes hands. The goblin grooms will violently 
defend Lazulin if they must (see Act II, Scene 4 for a 
suggested encounter with the beast).
11. Librarium and Kennels. A once-great hall of 
learning, this area is now a mass of rat-eaten scrolls and 
moldering tomes. A DC 25 Intelligence (Investigation) 
check, however, might reveal that this appearance is 
largely illusory. The place is used to store provender for 
POSTER MAP OF THE COURTS
A larger poster and battle mat of the Shadow Court 
map is available at KoboldPress.com. Most of the 
adventure’s encounter areas are provided in smaller 
detail maps, which will account for the major set-piece 
encounters, but if your party is keen on wandering 
around the palace wings at night, you might want a 
larger version of the two-page map given here.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 50 ---
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 51 ---
50
the stables and bags of grain and root vegetables for the 
kitchens. In addition, Kolya the Kennel Master (see page 
67) watches over the Black Prince’s hounds and shadow 
mastiffs here, when they are not with their master on 
the hunt or keeping him company in the courts.
12. Guards’ Hall. Lesser nobles seeking to curry favor 
with the royals often send a company of fey archers, 
soldiers, or quicksteps to the palace to serve for a season. 
At the moment, the guards are a company of the black 
shadow fey of Allosis, led by Captain Imbemerethion.
13. Stairs up to Royal Halls. These steps are 
wide, shallow tiers of beautiful marble. Two lantern 
dragonettes light the portal at the top (see area 45). 
This is a shadow door, and if the characters have Status 
of 10 or lower, opening it requires a successful DC 25 
Intelligence (Arcana) check.
THE WINTER PALACE
14. Executioner’s Gate. The shriveled heads of 
enemies and entire corpses in iron cages are displayed 
along the palace wall; these remains are years old, 
but the fey keep them in place as a reminder of their 
domination. The gate is made of oak banded with iron 
and is shut each night. It is guarded by a monolith 
footman; only fey or visitors with a Status of 6 or higher 
are allowed through it.
15. Hounds’ Run. Creatures entering the Winter Palace 
are investigated by the Black Prince’s hounds of the night 
(see page 70) or by psoglav demons (see page 63), both of 
which use this courtyard as an exercise and play space. 
16. Hall of Banners. Aside from the decorations and 
mementos for which it is named, this room is typically 
empty, reserved for courtly functions and meetings.
17. Servants’ Quarters. The brownies, animal-
headed humans, changelings, half-elves, and other 
low-Status servants, exiles, and outcasts who do much of 
the scut work at the court live in these shared barracks 
(while goblins and hobgoblins live in the Lower Halls). 
Cots and beds are a luxury, and not all servants rate 
them; those who serve a particular fey noble sleep 
outside the noble’s door. Grooms, kitchen help, maids, 
and footmen are not shy about taunting or mocking 
low-Status outsiders who have no real clout, and at the 
same time they are willing to cater to those who display 
any real sign of Status in exchange for food, magical 
trifles, or an interesting story. 
18. Puzzle Box Chamber. Fey send annoying guests 
and small children to wander here for a few hours. 
The room has stairs on the ceiling, and every exit leads 
back into the same room. Getting out is as simple (or as 
difficult) as traveling along a hidden bend in the stairs on 
the ceiling, which leads to New Moon Hall (see area 5).
19. Chamber of the Grey Ladies. This room seems 
twice as large on the inside as when viewed from the 
outside. Bright tapestries of pure gold and silver hang on 
the walls, and rich, woven carpets of red, black, and gray 
cover the floor. Three large looms are set here and are 
attended at all times by at least one of the Grey Ladies.
20. Chambers of the King’s Players. This area is 
a hive of activity most of the time, as jesters, acrobats, 
and actors of various petty trifles amuse themselves and 
practice their arts. These entertainers are quite casual in 
their behavior and dress, often performing naked and 
sometimes sharing intimate secrets in public. The other 
fey seem to consider this behavior normal. The King’s 
Players do not have a stage as such, but they perform in 
the dueling grounds or the Small Courtyard (area 46) in 
good weather and inside the halls when weather is poor.
21. Winter Palace Kitchens. Fat Lobbo, a half-ogre 
cook, presides over the work in the kitchens. The crew is 
made up of goblins and a few fey that are forced to serve 
as scullery maids and pot boys as punishment. The place 
contains ovens, sinks, cauldrons, and plenty of knives 
and other cutlery.
22. Majordomo’s Chamber. The center of the 
servant’s world is the majordomo’s plain room with its 
two chairs and fine tapestry dividing it (and hiding the 
bed from the door). The major furnishing is a writing 
desk and an account book, where rest two inkhorns 
and a handful of reed pens, keeping track of stores and 
supplies as well as favors owed, servants gained and lost, 
demerits for goblins and changelings, and so on. 
23. Well of Ice. The chilled water from this well is 
drawn up about 18 hours a day by strong goblin arms 
and taken to the kitchen. 
24. Hall of Changelings. This hall is the court for 
those who don’t have high enough Status to visit the 
Royal Halls. Nonetheless, the scheming and politicking 
that goes on here is no less deadly (2d6 courtiers are 
present at any given time). Of particular note here 
is Sariel, a shadow fey lady of modest Status and 
EMPTY HALLS
When the characters are too low in Status to be 
shown how the halls truly look, most rooms appear 
dusty, abandoned, or at least neglected in some way. 
Old furnishings and abandoned papers fill guest 
rooms, wells have no ropes or buckets, doors hang 
askew, kitchens are cold, and larders are empty.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 52 ---
51
mysterious demeanor. She dresses in black, and has a 
curious bearing. Flighty, even by shadow fey standards, 
Sariel often finds it difficult to focus on the events of the 
moment. That’s why, despite her formidable charisma 
and potential, she hasn’t risen higher in court. 
25. Shrine to the Shadow Gods. Always empty of 
lantern dragonettes, the shrine smells faintly of mold 
and shines with the glimmer of a thousand small silver 
treasures, each nailed to the walls as an offering in the 
shape of an eye, hand, foot, or heart. (Someone who 
succeeds on a DC 14 Dexterity check using thieves’ 
tools can remove trinkets worth a total of 200 gp—and 
call down a fey curse at the same time.) The primary 
gods represented here are Anu-Akma, the god of death 
and judgment, and the Red Goddess Marena (see 
Chapter 12: Pantheon in the Midgard Worldbook); St. 
Charon and even the martial aspect of Perun, the god of 
war, have icons here as well. The walls are lined with fine 
marble statues of ancestral kings and queens such as the 
Werewolf King, the Stag King, and the Jack of Shadows, 
as well as the Starlit Queen of the Pixies, the Eclipsed 
Queen, Comet Queen, and Queen Mab (see The Faerie 
Ring from Zombie Sky Press for more details on Mab 
and other fey lords).
SHARDS OF A BROKEN MIND:  
THE WAYWARD BABE
Unbeknownst even to herself, Sariel carries one of 
the greatest secrets in all of Midgard: She is neither 
of the Shadow Realm, nor is she a shadow fey. 
Lady Sariel is in fact a human changeling from 
Kammae in the Seven Cities. She was stolen away 
from her basket and blankets years ago, and a 
female shadow fey babe was left in her place. The 
shadow fey lives and thrives on Midgard, unaware 
that she is not human. Although Sariel appears to 
all examination (of both mundane and magical sort) 
to be a shadow fey, this is a nearly impenetrable 
glamour. She has begun to see through the veil that 
conceals her life, but only in dreams and when her 
mind is at the edge of consciousness. That’s why 
she’s so distracted—she moves through a world 
that seems to move a half-second out of sync, 
where things often seem to be something else to 
her eyes. Recently she’s begun to experience more 
vivid dreams, and if someone (say, a charming 
mortal) were to befriend her, she might talk about 
her recurring visions involving “the daughter of the 
moon, walking in flesh upon Midgard soil.” 
The truth about Sariel is a crucial clue to the 
reason for the Moonlit King’s sanity: the king’s 
daughter lives and breathes on Midgard in the guise 
of a human, and has no idea of her true heritage.
26. Buttress of the Bridge of Night. The wall 
leads to a bridge abutment, and a bridge connects to the 
royal apartments across the valley of the Lower Halls—
but the substance of the bridge exists only at night and 
only when the king or queen wishes it. The bridge can 
be trod upon by visitors who have Status 11 or higher; 
those of lower Status can walk about 30 feet out on it, 
but then fall through. 
27. Private Apartments of Lord Hargos the 
Flame-Cloaked. The elf consort Hargos wears an 
illusion of a cloak of fire over his bare, muscled chest; his 
hearty laugh is often heard when he goes on his rounds 
to the Hall of Changelings and the Small Courtyard. As a 
junior consort, he is not often allowed to visit the Royal 
Halls, and he makes the most of those opportunities, 
flattering and paying homage to the greatest of the 
shadow fey ladies. Most of the lords view him with deep 
suspicion, even though his behavior is always in keeping 
with shadow fey standards of decorum. His chambers are 
furnished in fine woods and pale leathers, scented with 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 53 ---
52
these chambers is an oddly out-of-place individual, the 
hulking bearfolk emissary Gorvalg Orsamsson. 
31. Private Chamber of Baron Coughspittle. 
The shadow fey Lord of Rotting Leaves and Watcher of 
the Fractured Gate has many enemies among the fey and 
is always attended by a monolith footman and an empty 
cloak. His chamber smells of the forest after a rain, and 
his bedding and tapestries depict autumn scenes. The 
baron is a great storyteller and enjoys engaging visitors 
in long reminiscences that sometimes last until dawn.
32. Private Chamber of Count Sammas 
Hollowgrin. The archmagus of the shadow fey is 
a force of incredible arcane power. The door leading 
into his chambers always announces visitors in a loud 
voice, declaiming their names and titles at high volume 
(thus alerting the count and his neighbors) no matter 
the hour. The chamber is a palace within the palace, 
with fifteen rooms around a central courtyard (not 
shown on the map), invisible servants, and elf maidens 
(his apprentices); it’s much bigger on the inside than the 
outside view would indicate—a small pocket dimension, 
really.  
THE BEARFOLK AMBASSADOR
Gorvalk Orsamsson is an envoy to the 
Shadow Court from the bearfolk inhabitants 
of the Moonlit Glades (see the Midgard 
Worldbook), far from the lands of the shadow 
fey. He wears the trophy decorations of a 
war leader but carries no weapons. Despite his 
growling voice and imposing stature, the envoy 
is polite and his manners impeccable. Gorvalk 
is a grizzlehide bearfolk, somewhat out of his 
natural element, and he presents an opportunity 
to link the characters in with the bearfolk, as well 
as a potentially genuine friend and ally in the 
otherwise duplicitous courts. 
If the characters are suffering accumulated 
shadow corruption, Gorvalk is a good way to 
intrduce the bearfolk’s knowledge of cleansing 
corruption without taking the party out of the 
Shadow Realm for an extended amount of time. 
For more information on the bearfolk’s ability 
to combat shadow corruption, see the Midgard 
Heroes Handbook.
pine. A small fire burns at the room’s center at all times; 
two brownie servants take turns feeding the fire.
28. Private Apartments of Lady Lishekki the 
Silver‑Chained. The junior courtesan is an elf 
maiden named Lishekki. Her purple hair and extremely 
pale skin shows to good advantage against the black, 
tarnished silver chains that are her only garments. 
Male fey consider her an exotic beauty, and the ladies 
consider her a single step above a whore. Unfortunately 
for Lishekki, as the junior courtesan (and an elf to boot) 
she is in no position to do much on her own to counter 
that sort of talk—which is why she is currently seeking 
a client who’s handy with blade or spell to call out her 
most vocal detractor: Brightspur, leader of the Ravens.
29. Captain of Guard’s and Officers’ Chambers. 
These are simple rooms for the current leader of 
the palace’s troops. Currently occupied by Captain 
Imbemerethion, who was believed to be a favorite of the 
king’s and who is rather out of favor with the queen. 
30. Visiting Nobles’ Chamber. Reserved for lesser 
knights and nobles visiting the courts, this room is 
furnished well with a canopy bed, chairs, writing table, 
dining table, and a few modest tapestries. Of note in 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 54 ---
53
	 Count Sammas has little patience for fools, and 
visitors have a chance of seeing him only if they make it 
past his many secretaries, appointment-book-keepers, 
underlings, and well-wishers (requiring successful DC 
16 Charisma [Intimidation or Persuasion] checks). He 
is also the royal standard bearer and herald, Master of 
Fence, and the Lord of Fallen Archways and Broken 
Swords, meaning he knows literally everyone at the 
court and their secrets. Count Sammas wants nothing 
to do with the issues concerning Zobeck; he’s trying to 
restore the king to sanity and keep shadow beasts and 
lunar devils from overrunning things.  
	 Portray the count not as absent-minded but simply 
concerned with larger problems. Count Sammas is 
a source for a subtle but potentially crucial piece of 
information; see the “Shards of a Broken Mind” sidebar.
33. Private Chamber of His Grace, Duke 
Rackclasp. The shadow fey Warden of the Early 
Frost and First Bonecarver is both an invoker and a 
necromancer. His chambers are strewn with chips of 
bone and always kept below freezing. Visitors suffer the 
effects of extreme cold while in his room.
34. Private Chamber of Jalennis, Lady of the 
Pale Gardens. The shadow fey druid Lady Jalennis 
is responsible for the growth and health of the forests, 
gardens, and labyrinth of the courts. She is found in her 
chamber only when sleeping.
35. Private Chamber of Lady Marrowsilk. The 
Queen’s Counsel and Most Learned Advocate is a traitor 
to the fey cause, providing information to Lord Maruuk, 
the diabolic ambassador; she often secretly visits his 
chambers (area 37). Or, is you so choose, she is a loyal 
warlock who pretends to favor Lord Maruuk and pumps 
him for a great deal of information, then shares that 
information with the queen. She’s interested in hearing 
from high-Status characters, yet she says almost nothing 
of value while hinting that she can help solve their 
problems. She wants the Sapphire Courtesan dead, for 
no reason other than professional jealousy.
36. Lord Chelessfield, Lady Sorreminx, and Sir 
Yngress the Red. These three elves from the River 
King’s Court keep to themselves except during dueling 
season and major festivals. They are trying to arrange 
a marriage alliance between the River King’s daughter, 
Ripple, and the Black Prince or another titled shadow 
fey noble—so far without success.
37. Chambers of Lord Maruuk. The diabolic 
ambassador loves the Shadow Court and the many fey of 
loose morals who seek power. With so many ambitious 
courtiers, he does pull strings in exchange for small 
favors all the time, and has amassed a considerable 
following, while keeping his corruption just mild enough 
not to annoy the royals. He has been exiled once for 
“behavior unbecoming an ambassador,” but he has come 
back because he feels he is slowly tilting the court toward 
chaos and evil. Though the shadow fey are his pets and 
favorites, he certainly offers the characters much the 
same bargain. In exchange for their pledge of fealty 
while they are within the Shadow Realm (a paltry thing) 
or in exchange for a single favor (a gift, information, 
an important document or lies whispered in the right 
ear) he offers a wealth of information and gossip, and 
perhaps a little blood magic or one of the spells of doom 
(see the Midgard Worldbook). He especially wants to see 
the demon lord Akyishigal and the Lightning Lord dead, 
because both have foiled his rise to power at the court 
more than once; his own physical and arcane power is 
SHARDS OF A BROKEN MIND:  
THE LONG SUMMER
Unbeknownst even to herself, Sariel carries one of 
the greatest secretCount Sammas is one of a few 
courtiers who hold the keys to restoring the Moonlit 
King’s sanity. He knows that the long rule of the 
queen is part of the reason for the king’s madness; 
the court’s natural cycle has been stalled, and 
the queen’s extended rule exacerbates the king’s 
troubled mind. The courts of the shadow fey wax 
and wane in power according to the turn of courtly 
seasons, the duration and schedule of which seems 
random to the outside observer. 
The truth is that many factors play into how long 
a given court’s season lasts. The shadow fey tend to 
lose track of the passage of mortal years, one decade 
blurring into another—but a few who have a mind 
for such things, like Sammas, know that the Summer 
Court, and thus the queen, have held sway for over 
a century. That is the longest-lasting single tenure 
of either of the shadow fey rulers in their history. 
Though he might never confess his feelings to a 
member of the court, Count Sammas believes that it 
is time for a change, even though he loves the queen. 
He might share this prediction or theory (insofar as 
non-fey can understand the intricacies) with a learned 
character or one of high Status, and he urges them to 
visit the Moonlit King to change the court’s position 
on reasserting their claim to Zobeck. He believes that 
the court, once the king is restored, will have other 
matters to tend to within the shadow realm, fighting 
back various undead and demons of the outer dark.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 55 ---
54
not great enough to challenge those two directly, and 
he’d prefer to have outsiders spill their blood while being 
able to deny his involvement.
38. Chambers of Baron Suvid. The Lord of Blades 
has a peculiar chamber, small and neat as a jeweled 
egg—three times the size within as it seems to be 
without. The walls are covered with small, neatly stacked 
boxes full of preserved ears and scalps from foes, and 
a large, well-used grinding wheel stands to one side of 
the entrance. The chamber has the smells of leather and 
metal. Baron Suvid is already drafting the queen’s first 
proclamation for Zobeck, which is heavy on “If you 
do not oppose my rule, you have nothing to fear.” He 
resents any intrusion by the characters, but he might 
attempt to pump them to get the “local view” of things. 
39. Chamber of Mistress Gossamer. The Lady of 
the Mournful Gate is a banshee who apologizes for the 
stench of her undead servants. The floor of her chamber 
is made of tombstones, which always display the names 
of her visitors; there are no other furnishings.
40. Chamber of Princess Vailessia Graystone 
and Prince Loric Oakbound. The two youthful 
wards of the Summer Court are far from home. Prince 
Loric is a dreamer without power, while Princess 
Vailessia is a much stronger child, always tumbling about 
and asking whether her visitors are bringing her a puppy, 
know where a puppy might be found, or have heard 
about a puppy coming to court. They are reasonably well 
informed but disinclined to talk politics with strangers. 
The rooms are hung with bright tapestries of hills, 
sunrises, unicorns, and a rainbow that offers fey children 
an escape from visitors (as a fey door).
41. Guest Chamber. Reserved for non-fey visitors 
of lesser distinction, this room is furnished with a fine 
canopy bed, a painted chest for clothes and linens, and a 
wash basin behind a carved screen. 
42. Hidden Stairs to Forest and Labyrinth. 
Three monolith footmen and six deathwisps guard 
these stairs from the forest side. None may pass down 
to the Spiral Maze below without the permission of the 
prince or the queen, in written and sealed form, or the 
queen’s gift of daggers (see page 124). If the guards are 
defeated, the shadow door to the stairs leading down 
and the maze entrance can be opened with a successful 
DC 25 Intelligence (Arcana) check, or by casting three 
consecutive knock spells on it.
43. Rookery. A thousand rooks and crows nest here 
each evening. The Black Prince is fond of these animals, 
and they are well fed; he visits them at least once a week 
with his huntsmen and followers. 
44. Moon-Viewing Tower. This tower is off limits 
to all but the nobles of the court and popular for its 
especially good view of the full moon three days every 
month. The rest of the time it is haunted by a dozen 
deathwisps, which violently discourage visitors. The 
stairs within the tower are moonlight stairs: invisible 
and insubstantial except when viewed by moonlight, 
when they are solid and useful for climbing to the 
viewing platform at the top.
DESIGN NOTE: THIEVERY IN THE COURTS
The courts are filled with treasures large and small, and the 
characters can steal a lot of silver if they decide to make a job of 
it. Most of these treasures, however, are either illusory or made 
of shadowstuff and have no substance outside the palaces. Even 
so, gross thievery is frowned on by the fey as uncouth, and 
anyone caught stealing more than 1,000 gp of real or illusory 
silverware, paintings, candlesticks, necklaces, and so forth is 
brought before the queen or the Goblin Court, depending on 
the criminal’s Status. Most of these miscreants are exiled or 
transformed into goblins and forced to work as servants. All 
thieves suffer a −3 deduction in Status if convicted, and a fine 
of an equivalent gp value might be levied.
	
For this reason, most treasures and ornaments are not 
given gold piece values in their descriptions. They can be 
acquired, but they have no value in the long term.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 56 ---
55
THE ROYAL HALLS
45. The Open Portal. The doors to this section are 
always flung open, although two monolith footmen 
guard them. If an alarm has been raised in the castle, 
opening the shadow door here requires a successful 
Intelligence (Arcana) check (DC 27 from the outside, 
DC 22 from within the Royal Halls). The Royal Halls 
are barred to those who have Status of 10 or lower; 
others can walk in freely, and can bring in a guest of 
lower Status by making a successful DC 18 Charisma 
(Deception) or Charisma (Persuasion) check. In general, 
a high-Status character can enter with lower-Status 
friends if the friends are described as servants, followers, 
or hangers-on of some kind; the shadow fey certainly 
understand that high-Status people need servants and 
toadies, and make exceptions on that basis.
46. Small Courtyard. The courtyard is dominated 
by stairs leading up to the east, a view to the north over 
the forest through battlements, a tower to the west, and 
a bubbling fountain of pure cold water. Servants from 
the kitchen draw from it, and nobles drink it; the runoff 
is piped down to the kitchen in the Lower Halls.
47. Long Hall. This 5-foot-wide hall provides access 
to more than a dozen doors leading into the chambers 
of various nobles and courtesans.
48. Kitchens. These kitchens are the best equipped in 
the palace. On feast days, a shadow portal here opens 
directly into the Chamber of the Huntsmen (area 50), 
allowing dishes to travel to their destination more 
swiftly. The head chef is the shadow fey Elasstriel (called 
“Mistress Chopper” by her underlings).
49. Chamber of the Black Mirror. This room, 
dominated by a black mirror in a golden frame, is used 
by lesser courtiers to plot and scheme. The chamber 
is empty, unless a hand of cards is being played or 
courtesans are engaged in debauchery. The mirror is an 
8-foot-tall slab of polished black marble with mithral 
and tarnished silver-gilded edging. It connects to all 
the shadow doors in the palace, but only those of royal 
blood or those who make a successful DC 30 Intelligence 
(Arcana) check may pass. Failing the Intelligence check 
alerts the nearest monolith footman or empty cloak to 
throw a trespasser out of the royal wing of the palace. 
50. Chamber of the Huntsmen. A salon used for 
appointments with visiting nobles, scholars, and clergy 
who have gained a brief audience with one of the major 
figures of the court. It is also sometimes reserved for 
the courtship or more intimate appointments of the 
royals and their followers, because visiting it does not 
require traversing the Great Hall (area 62). It is named 
for the tapestries that adorn its walls, though courtly 
wags claim that the place is where the prince hunts 
various beauties and the queen judges the suitability of 
paramours and admirers.
51. Tower of the Lords of Light. This tower is 
the home and refuge of the court’s sorcerers, warlocks, 
and wizards. It is always lit by a large group of lantern 
dragonettes—the beasts are bred and fed here, although 
they sleep in the Spiral Maze (see Act IV, Scene 2). 
The halls of the tower are unornamented and stripped 
of illusion, showing only bare stone. This is itself, of 
course, an illusion: the stones are thickly covered with 
layers of runes and wardings, preventing the use of any 
divine magic within the tower. This includes both spells 
and magical features (such as Channel Divinity). 
	 Spells that produce light or deal radiant damage are 
automatically cast at one level higher than the expended 
slot’s level, even if that level is normally beyond the 
caster’s ability. Similarly, cantrips that produce light have 
their illumination radius doubled, and those that deal 
radiant damage deal an extra die of damage.
52. Black Well of Night. This is the pit of the 
demon lord Akyishigal. A deep, magical darkness at the 
bottom of the descent (about 50 feet below the floor) 
keeps the chamber in a state of perpetual gloom; some 
refer to this as “elder darkness,” as if it were a living 
thing, though it neither speaks nor eats, and yet it makes 
the skin crawl. 
	 The cave at the bottom contains solid black pillars of 
an unearthly chill, and the chamber is always occupied 
by servants of the demon lord (such as roachlings, 
psoglav demons, or tiefling courtiers). The pit below is 
crawling with millions of roaches and guarded as well 
by Akyishigal’s roachlings and other servants. No light 
shines here unless the elder darkness is destroyed by a 
sunlight spell or dispel magic. Spells that produce light 
or deal radiant damage are cast at one level lower than 
the slot expended to cast them (minimum 1st level). 
Cantrips that produce light create only half their usual 
radius of illumination, and cantrips that deal radiant 
damage deal one less die of damage (minimum 1 die).
53. Chamber of the Black Prince. Decorated 
with hundreds of antlers, boar tusks, and wings, these 
rooms are a shrine to the chase and the kill. The beds 
are covered with bearskins, the chandeliers are made of 
antlers, and the floors are inlaid with scenes of falconry 
and boar, fox, bear, and deer hunting. The Black Prince’s 
servants are all deathwisps and favored nobles of the 
court, most of them young shadow fey rakes. Those who 
visit him here are offered a cup of black wine or green 
ale; those who refuse to drink are challenged to a duel. 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 57 ---
56
54. Private Apartments of Ulara of the Seven 
Veils. Filled with dozens of diaphanous silk banners 
and hanging tapestries, this chamber blocks line of 
sight beyond a single square in any direction. The 
courtesan Ulara is rarely here unless she is entertaining 
an admirer. She wears silks and flowing capes in bright 
colors, knotted and draped enticingly.
55. Private Apartments of Mora Moonwater 
the Rain-Cloaked. A small fountain of stone and 
water burbles quietly in a corner, and the chamber 
has a warm, wet atmosphere filled with scent: pine, 
rose, plum, or whatever suits the courtesan’s fancy 
that day. She wears blue garments meshed with pearls, 
solid raindrops, and shimmering scales and necklaces 
of mithral. The fountain contains small fish, and the 
furnishings display an aquatic theme: mother-of-pearl 
and lapis inlays, table legs carved in the shape of fish, 
and so forth.
56. Private Apartments of Songemesha the 
Raven-Haired. The courtesan Songemesha is a drow 
of mixed blood; her charms are peculiar ones, for she 
has both black hair and black skin, and her eyes glow 
like molten gold. This chamber is decorated in white silk 
wall hangings with a rug of pale yellow spider silk. The 
room is guarded by a half-dozen swarms of spiders at 
all times; a single goblin maidservant named Spinner is 
also here to scream a warning when admirers go too far.
57. Private Apartments of Ballandrine the 
Frost-Eyed. The consort’s room is decorated in furs 
and fine wall hangings of woven silk in pale green and 
gold, with a white bearskin rug before the window and 
ermine blankets on the bed. Ballandrine is the most 
powerful of the human changelings at the courts, and 
he helps his fellow humans when he can; as a result, the 
servants feed him information and provide help in his 
schemes among the fey. He secretly favors the cause of 
the Moonlit King, hoping to return him to favor.
58. Private Apartments of Maraya the 
Sapphire. These rooms seem to be decorated in 
precious stones and rich dyed and gilded wallpaper. The 
courtesan Maraya is always here during daylight hours, 
and prowls the courts and halls by night. She is attended 
by four maids who are also bodyguards. The creature 
is a succubus; in male form, he calls himself Marek the 
Sapphire (see page 56).
59. Waiting Salon. Those who seek entry to the Great 
Hall must wait here. A painting of the queen hangs 
on the eastern wall; servants and lesser nobles always 
bow to it as they enter or leave the room (kitchen staff 
bearing dishes might nod instead). Visitors are expected 
to avert their gaze; staring at the painting is considered 
impossibly rude and might be cause for a challenge 
to duel. Those who do stare, however, can learn a few 
things: 1) the queen wears diamonds and carries a 
glowing wand; 2) she is stunningly attractive but with 
a sort of cruel beauty, cold as the stars; and 3) she is 
surrounded by wisps of fog and constellations unlike 
those seen elsewhere. 
60. Old Duke’s Chambers. Often used by the 
court’s secretaries and by lovers seeking a tryst, the 
Duke’s Chambers have not been anyone’s quarters since 
the death of the old duke (the Black Prince’s uncle, 
Gallasphear Trimordian, who was the queen’s younger 
brother) some years ago. The chamber is decorated 
with thick tapestries, has a writing desk, and boasts a 
splendid view of the bridge and the Western Gate.
61. The King and Queen’s Chambers. Furnished 
in silver, gold, ebony, and mahogany, the King and 
Queen’s Chambers are a maze of gauzy silk dividers and 
beautiful tapestries of spun glass, spun moonlight, and 
spun silver and bronze. There are bright pearl perches 
for two ancient lantern dragonettes the size of hounds. 
The room has chests, wardrobes, black carpets woven 
with constellations and abstract patterns, and a dozen 
maidservants who wait on the queen.
62. The Great Hall of the Shadow Court. This 
is a high-ceilinged hall with several niches and hidden 
chambers for the prince’s men and for ladies-in-waiting. 
On the main floor, black wallpaper hangs from the walls 
around a dozen columns of alabaster set with perches 
for lantern dragonettes; the floor is made of alternating 
black and white parquetry, and glowing jewels in the 
shape of unfamiliar constellations hang from the ceiling. 
Courtiers visit here only when invited by the royal 
family, but the Black Prince’s friends, dogs, and archers 
are always present. The archers stand at the ready on the 
hall’s small balcony, keeping their eyes on visitors but 
not interfering with court business. The dogs stay close 
to their master. Shadow doors lead from here to most 
sections of the Royal Halls; activating one requires a 
successful DC 30 Intelligence (Arcana) check.
63. Royal Audience Chamber. Not technically part 
of the Royal Halls, this chamber rests atop a cloud of 
shadowstuff beneath a sky sparkling with a million stars. 
This is one of the few places in the Shadow Realm with 
an unclouded view of the sky. The king and queen are 
always illuminated in soft, dim light by a train of lantern 
dragonettes, and a trio of birds watches over each throne 
when it is occupied (owls for the queen, ravens for the 
king). A cloudy mist envelops the room’s floor, and the 
ceiling is open to the heavens. The whole place seems to 
be constructed on a cloud far above the courts proper—
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 58 ---
57
and it is. A successful DC 20 Intelligence (Nature) or 
Wisdom (Survival) check reveals that the air is cold 
and thin enough to correspond to an altitude of at least 
1 mile, perhaps more. Visitors are often cowed by the 
majesty of the site, which is its intended purpose.
64. The Red Princess’s Chamber. This room 
is a largely empty chamber, once reserved for an 
ambassador from the ghouls of the Twilight Empire. Its 
scarlet wall hangings are neatly kept, and a single goblin 
named Miletta Nichtowls often lurks here, shirking her 
duties elsewhere in the courts. She fears discovery and 
might offer directions or a half-gnawed lamb shank as a 
bribe to anyone who stumbles across her hiding spot. 
65. Chamber of Ermine the Jongleur. Offering 
a view of New Moon Hall (area 5) through a small 
spyhole, this chamber is decorated in excellent tapestries 
of what the shadow fey call “dappling”—entirely abstract 
and yet leafy shapes that seem to move on their own.
66. Storage. Various chests of clothes and linens, as 
well as currently unfashionable furnishings, are stored 
here. The contents are clean, yet an astonishing number 
of white and lilac spiders emerge and begin crawling 
around if the chests are disturbed.
Status 5 or Lower: Servants’ Gossip
1–5
The cook owes money to Fordin of the East, the changeling Master of Horses. (true, but irrelevant)
6–8 
The cook puts saltpeter in the Master of Horses’ meals. (false)
9–11 
Don’t step on spiders, they are royal children. (false)
12–14
Laurian the Wine Butler was caught tasting the King’s Brew. (true)
15–17 
You will be respected for imitating a donkey. (false, but it will make goblins laugh)
18–20 
True nobility is found downstairs as well as up. Visit Moggo the Chamberlain in the Goblin Court, and you 
might be granted an audience with the Goblin King. (true . . . though it’s more likely that the characters 
will be tested to perform servants’ tasks like fetching water or peeling potatoes)
21–22 
An all-seeing angel lives in the Tower of Light. Its name is Revich. (true)
23–24 
The goblin soup chef Amaryllis Amra is wildly in love with Princess Vailessia Greystone.  
(improbably true!)
25–26 
The glowing light from a lantern dragonette’s body is a key ingredient in a more powerful raise dead ritual. 
(true, but you better not try it!)
27–28 
Lantern dragonettes are a particular mark of royal favor. (true)
29–30 
There are no “natural” creatures of the Shadow Realm. Mundane animals are all servants of the Fae in one 
way or another. (false; some creatures do live in the forest, such as white deer, gray moles, and black mice, 
but they are infused with the essence of shadow)
31–32 
The underlings of the cook Blazing Barda and other servants are children stolen from the mortal world and 
spell-cloaked to look fey. (mostly true, though many are goblins as well)
33+ 
Princess Vailessia wants a puppy. The soup chef would love to sneak one to her room. (true!)
67. Maids’ Chamber. Several ladies’ maids gather here 
for sewing, gossip, and minor arcana. The two balconies 
give it a breezy air, and the queen can call the maids 
easily enough from the solarium if she desires company.
68. Solarium. Her Majesty often spends days or nights 
here, looking through the enormous crystal skylight 
at various stars or cloud formations of interest. The 
chamber’s furnishings are all fashioned of ebony and 
silver, worth a fortune—but prone to shout out warnings 
if carried out of the room. This is one of her Majesty’s 
favorite places for dressing down disobedient courtiers, 
lazy cooks, or nosy adventurers.
Gossip and Rumors
The characters can try to gather information as often 
as you decide the opportunity presents itself, using 
Intelligence (Investigation) or Charisma (Persuasion) 
checks. What they get for their efforts depends on their 
Status and the individual they interact with. The entries 
vary for characters with Status of 5 or lower, Status 
6–10, Status 11–15, and Status 16 or higher. When the 
characters make a check, refer to the appropriate section 
below and give them the information associated with 
the check total (but not any lower results). As the lists 
indicate, not everything they might learn will ultimately 
do them any good.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 59 ---
58
Status 11–15: Courtier Gossip
1–10
The Moonlit King assassinates all those who dare visit his wife the queen; dozens of mortals have been 
slaughtered in his name. (false)
11–12 The queen doesn’t really care about the mortal city of Zobeck although her courtiers have theories. Some 
say she considers the gear goddess Rava a rival. (false)
13–14 The Grey Ladies are compelled not to leave court for more than three days, or the court’s power will fade. 
(false)
15–16
The king and queen exchange the power of the throne on a schedule only they fully understand. Each holds 
a piece of the Shadow Realm’s power. (true) 
17–18
One Lord Chelessfield from the River King’s realm is visiting here. (true, and a possible ally)
19–20
The viceroy or lord that the queen intends to send to Zobeck will grind it under his boot heel, sooner than 
anyone thinks. The Black Prince did the same when the shadow fey conquered Corremel. (true, though the 
viceroy’s appointment is still a distant event)
21–22
The queen visits the king but rarely; more often, she sends those who displease her into the Spiral Maze to 
amuse the Moonlit King or to die at his hands. (true)
23–24
All the court fears meeting the Moonlit King in his winter season. His moonlight devils destroy fey souls, 
and his maze is a place of horrible suffering. (true)
Status 6–10: Low Gossip
1–5
At twilight on the night of the waxing moon, the shades come back for their due. (false)
6–8
Never touch your nose among duelists. It’s a deadly insult. (false) 
9–10
Mortal wines and spirits are more than just vile to shadow fey—they’re toxic. (false)
11–12
The Grey Ladies secretly worship Mammon, the Archdevil of Greed. (false, and likely to give offense to the 
Ravens)
13–14
Akyishigal’s roachlings work among the master cook’s underlings and cook the food for diners of low 
Status. (false, and likely to result in a challenge to a duel if repeated)
15–16
The noble Lady Sariel has been cursed to wander, lost in the halls of the courts, not for having relations 
with the kennel master but for snubbing his dogs while she did. (false, and cause for a challenge to a duel if 
repeated)
17–18
The Moonlit King is a creature allied with dark forces: dwarves and death. He always kills mortals who have 
seen his true form. (false)
19–20
Stealing a glass of King’s Cordial and offering it as a refreshment before a duel grants great Status to its bearer 
in the event that they win the duel afterward. (true; +1 Status for sheer bravado)
21–22
Whitemist, the goblin servant in charge of the dueling grounds, is addicted to ale and enchanted moments 
of bliss. He can easily be bribed to permit a duel out of season, or to overlook a hit. (true; ale or philters of 
memory win his favor) 
23–24 
The king’s mad half-brother is confined to the Tower of Light, and the angel is his guardian. (almost true)
25–26
The Rain- and Flame-cloaked courtesans are plotting together with servants of the Moonlit King to 
supplant the Sapphire Courtesan. (true, but then it is always true)
27–28
The Sapphire Courtesan adores strawberries. (true, and grants advantage on the next attempt to woo her)
29–30
The Shadow Court has caught and imprisoned the firebird at least a dozen times . . . but it always reappears 
outside the court within the week. (true)
31–32
The firebird lives in the forest outside the palace, and the Black Prince has never caught it himself. Anyone 
who does becomes his deadly enemy. (true)
33+
Princess Vailessia wants a puppy. The soup chef would love to sneak one to her room. (true!)
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 60 ---
59
Status 16 or Higher: Royal Gossip
1–10
 The queen finds “cynicism” and corrupted “purity” to be heady drinks and forces the children of the courts to 
serve Akyishigal in its rituals to harvest them. (false) 
11–12
The king and queen are blackmailing each other for the power of the throne; each secretly despises the 
other. (false)
13–14
The king always consults with the queen for all decisions. (false, and likely to annoy the Black Prince or 
Baron Suvid)
15–16
Akyishigal is the king’s lover. It’s the only reason the demon lord is tolerated in the court. (juicy, but not 
true)
17–18 Among the queen’s closest advisors, there is a fashion for wearing dried lavender tied to the left ankle. (true, 
but not very helpful; doing so grants advantage on a Charisma [Persuasion] check, once)
19–20
Princess Vailessia Graystone is a pawn at court, but she is also one of the few truthful and honest fey of 
royal blood. Surely she knows a few secrets. The servants all say she is mad about a puppy. (true)
21–22
The queen and the archmage Count Sammas Hollowgrin are having an affair. (true, though no one minds at 
the fey court, since affairs are common practice)
23–24
The king turns a blind eye to the affair because he fears he could not win a duel with the court’s fearsome 
archmage and swordsman. (false; the king has no idea) 
25–26
Baron Suvid is the queen’s assassin and spymaster. (false, though she does sometimes confide in him)
27–28 Both the Demon Lord of Roaches and the Black Prince have aspirations to the throne. The queen plays 
them against one another, but it’s not clear whether she can continue to do so without exiling one of them. 
(true)
29–30
The princess is a crucial pawn in the courts; she might marry either the Black Prince or the Demon Lord of 
Roaches, and her dowry would be the City of Corremel. (true)
31–32
Marrying off the princess might be the queen’s best solution to resolve rivalries at court, since it would 
remove one of the dark pair from further politicking. However, she fears marriage to either of them might 
also embolden them to seize power. (true)
33+
The king is quite mad in his winter season and is only exiled as long as his madness remains. These periods 
have grown longer and longer. (true)
25–26
No one is really sure whether the queen really wants to seize the mortal city; some think her husband made 
her swear to press the claim. (true)
27–28
Other courtiers believe that Zobeck is the place where the queen and the king first kissed. (true)
29–30
Some believe the queen sets the firebird free each time it is brought to her. (true)
31–32
The Moonlit King is as much a title as a person, but his word is the one that will make or break the claim 
to Zobeck. If he disavows the claim, the city faces no more threat from the shadow fey. (true, but rather 
incomplete)
33+ 
The queen sorrows over the king’s wrath and his growing bloodlust, which make him dangerous to the 
entire court. She’s starting to let the king go and perhaps considering a replacement. (true)
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 61 ---
60
Act II, Scene 1: Suit at the Door
A single type of enemy seems to live at the courts: 
an enormous, glowing suit of armor, the Queen’s 
Champion, who defends the Western Gate and the 
gates to the Royal Halls as a sort of monstrous footman. 
This is a monolith footman, and its name is quite 
appropriate: the thing is 10 feet tall, and the armor is 
empty. When it is approached, read: 
The armor is made for an ogre or similarly sized 
creature: about ten feet tall, tarnished silver on steel, 
and apparently empty. A voice as echoing as the 
bottom of a well speaks, saying, “Who has invited you 
to the shadow courts?”
Unless the characters respond immediately with “the 
queen” or the title of any fey noble and also succeed on 
a DC 25 Charisma (Deception) check, the monolith 
armor realizes they are uninvited guests, and it tries to 
throw them out. Its sword lights up with blue flame, 
and it strikes to remove them as quickly as possible. 
Vanquishing a monolith footman is purely temporary 
and provides no XP, but each victory does result in a +1 
increase to Status, and as Status improves, additional 
creatures gradually become visible to the party. 
ENCOUNTER CHOICES
Easy—1 monolith footman
Easy (after 2–4 victories)—1 monolith footman,  
1 empty cloak
Easy (after 5+ victories)—2 monolith footmen,  
2 empty cloaks
The first time the characters defeat a monolith footman 
in combat, they gain a +1 increase to Status, and other 
shadow fey appear (see Table 2–6). Most creatures 
arrive in their animal forms: bats, birds, mice, rats, 
and cats will watch the party often, and they might be 
described as animals living in a clearly abandoned set 
of halls.
Alternatively, if the party avoids the footman, consider 
letting the characters use Intelligence (Investigation) 
and some combination of Intelligence (Arcana) and 
Intelligence (Nature) checks (all DC 18) to view the 
courts proper. A distillation of moonlight applied to the 
eyes or a few mystic passes might part the illusion for an 
exceptionally talented wizard or druid.
Monolith Footman
Large construct, unaligned
Armor Class 14 (natural armor)
Hit Points 60 (8d10 + 16)
Speed 40 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
18 (+4)	 12 (+1)	
14 (+2)	
10 (+0)	
10 (+0)	 10 (+0)
Damage Immunities poison; bludgeoning, piercing, 
and slashing from nonmagical weapons that aren’t 
adamantine
Condition Immunities charmed, exhaustion, frightened, 
paralyzed, poisoned
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 10
Languages Elvish, Umbral
Challenge 3 (700 XP)
Blatant Dismissal. While in the courts or castles of the 
fey, a monolith footman that scores a successful hit with 
its longsword can try to force the substitution of the 
target with a shadow double. The target must succeed 
on a DC 10 Charisma saving throw or become invisible, 
silent, and paralyzed, while an illusory version of itself 
remains visible and audible—and under the monolith 
footman’s control, shouting for a retreat or the like. 
Outside fey locales, this ability does not function.
Table 2–6: Defeating Monolith Armor
Number of 
Victories
Fey Appearing
0
Ravens, owls
1
Mice, rats, foxes
2
Silent Billoc, mute and cowardly goblin potboy
3
Eracen the court musician, Ulrika the court painter
4
Cook, brownies, goblin servants
5
Human changelings with animal heads, ogres, goblin smith
6+
Shadow fey and courtiers of low Status, such as members of the Ravens faction (see page 68), as 
well as the guards and their captain, the seer, and the various other creatures of the Lower Halls.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 62 ---
61
Fey Flame. The ritual powering the monolith footman 
grants it an inner flame that it can use to enhance 
its weapon or its fists with extra fire or cold damage, 
depending on the construct’s needs.
Simple Construction. A monolith footman is designed 
with delicate fey construction. It bursts into pieces and is 
destroyed when it receives a critical hit.
ACTIONS
Longsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., 
one target. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) slashing damage plus 9 
(2d8) cold or fire damage.
Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) bludgeoning damage plus 9 
(2d8) cold or fire damage.
Empty Cloak
Medium construct, unaligned
Armor Class 13 (natural armor)
Hit Points 45 (10d8)
Speed 0 ft., fly 40 ft. 
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
18 (+4)	 14 (+2)	
10 (+0)	
10 (+0)	
10 (+0)	 1 (–5)
Saving Throws Dex +4, Con +2
Skills Stealth +4
Damage Vulnerabilities fire
Damage Resistances bludgeoning 
Damage Immunities poison
Condition Immunities charmed, exhaustion, frightened, 
paralyzed, petrified, poisoned
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 10
Languages understands Elvish and Umbral but can’t speak
Challenge 1/2 (100 XP)
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 63 ---
62
Diligent Sentinel. The empty cloak is designed to watch 
for intruders. It has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) 
checks.
Shadow Construction. The empty cloak is designed with 
delicate shadow construction. It bursts into pieces, then 
dissipates into shadows on a critical hit.
Wrapping Embrace. The empty cloak can enter a hostile 
creature’s space and stop there. It has advantage on 
attack rolls against any creature in the same space with it.
ACTIONS
Razor Cloak. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., 
one target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) slashing damage.
Shadow Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., 
one target. Hit: 6 (1d4 + 4) bludgeoning damage.
Shadow Snare. Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, range 
20/60 ft., one target. Hit: Large or smaller creatures are 
restrained. To escape, the restrained creature or an ally 
within 5 feet must make a DC 14 Strength check as an 
action. On a successful check, the creature is no longer 
restrained. The shadow snare has AC 12 and 15 hit points.
Development
After the characters have scored two victories over 
monolith footmen, the queen’s minions call up empty 
cloaks to further ward the halls. The guards then attack 
in pairs: one cloak and one footman. Once three of these 
pairs are defeated, a defeated minion’s last shout calls to 
the psoglav demons for help. A horrible baying sound is 
heard echoing through the halls. Proceed with Scene 3, 
Unleash the Hounds.
Treasure
The armor left behind from a vanquished footman is 
ordinary elven plate mail (albeit Large). It could be 
resized to Medium with a successful DC 20 Dexterity 
check using smith’s tools, and the robes it wears might 
help an attempt at disguise or infiltration. In addition, 
the footmen and the cloaks have treasure in the form of 
1,800 gp worth of mithral inlay, gems worth 5,700 gp, 
and two potions of greater healing.
Act II, Scene 2:  
Tripping and Thievery 
As they wander and explore, the characters feel the 
frequent brush of invisible hands. This is the work of the 
goblins and lesser fey who can see the party perfectly 
well and enjoy taking advantage of their invisibility.
INVISIBILITY AND FOES
The illusions covering the courts are extremely powerful 
and impede all vision and much sound. This makes 
the characters blind with respect to the invisible fey. 
The cloaked courtiers do their best to remain hidden, 
forcing characters to choose spaces randomly to attack 
(hoping the foe is there), and the characters cannot 
make opportunity attacks. In addition, this invisibility 
grants advantage on certain actions that the fey might 
take, especially shoving to trip an unsuspecting 
character or on Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) checks to 
pick pockets or steal accessible items. 
See invisibility does not pierce this glamour; only 
truesight reveals the actual nature of the courts’ 
occupation.
TRIPPING AND PUSHING 
If the characters are loud and annoying or if one 
wanders off to the stairs alone, they are likely targets 
for harassment, such as thrown rocks, trip attempts 
on the stairs, and so on. Most of these acts deal little 
damage, but a +5 bonus to hit is typical for the lower-
class goblins, human changelings, and lesser fey. If one 
of these attacks hits, the target takes 1d4 bludgeoning 
damage and must succeed on a DC 10 Strength saving 
throw or fall prone. If the target is on the stairs when 
it falls prone, it falls 1d2 × 10 feet down the staircase, 
taking 1d4 bludgeoning damage per 10 feet fallen.
THIEVERY AND ARSON
The main thief among the many servants is a goblin 
potboy and sneak thief named Silent Billoc (Sleight of 
Hand +7); he gains advantage for being invisible. The 
DC for one of his thievery attempts depends on how 
accessible the desired item is. Stealing something from 
a simple pouch or pack is DC 15, while something 
being worn (such as a ring) is DC 25. If he succeeds, the 
goblin potboy takes either something small and shiny 
(like a ring, scarf, amulet, or holy symbol) or something 
he recognizes as powerful (a spell component pouch, 
small weapon, or potion). He cannot take a held 
item. Whether or not he succeeds in stealing an item, 
if his check result fails to exceed the target’s passive 
Perception score, the target notices the theft (or 
attempted theft).
If the attempt is noticed, Billoc’s first course of action 
is to run off. The characters can try to take precautions 
to prevent this, but the thief likely gets away. 
Reporting Theft. If the party reports the thefts to a 
monolith footman or an empty cloak, the construct 
does not speak but nods in response and glides off. The 
reporting character’s goods are returned under their 
pillow the next morning. 
Attempting Arson. Foolish characters might attempt 
to start a fire (with a spell or otherwise), perhaps as a 
diversion. Doing so in the courts is a serious offense, 
even though normal fire does not burn properly outside 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 64 ---
63
of kitchen ovens or the many hearths in the 
chambers and apartments. A monolith 
footman or other servants will arrive and 
attempt to put out any fire, while various 
nobles will try to apprehend the arsonist. 
Punishment ranges from setting fire to the 
perpetrator, to banishment from the courts for a year. 
Act II, Scene 3:  
Unleash the Hounds
After the characters have defeated a monolith footman 
twice and the partnered cloaks and footmen three times, 
they draw the attention of the queen’s demonic dogs, a 
gift from evil allies of long standing. The demon dogs 
are among her favorite creatures because they keep 
so many visitors away—by devouring them. Their 
attentions test the bravery of visitors to the courts; 
most run away when they hear the howls, even 
before seeing their source. 
Wisdom (Perception) DC 20—The baying resembles 
the sound of dogs, but they must be enormous ones. 
Their deep howls sound like they come all the way 
from Hell.
An enormous pack of black dog-demons called 
the psoglav serve the queen. Each has a dog’s 
head with iron teeth and a humanoid body with 
hooves for feet. Each one’s helmet has a slit revealing a 
single large eye.
The psoglav sometimes work with the raven-fey 
known as the malphas to drive off unwanted guests.
ENCOUNTER CHOICES
Easy—1 psoglav demon
Medium—1 psoglav demon, 1 malphas 
Hard—1 psoglav demon, 2 malphas 
STEEP DROPS IN STATUS AND SHADOW DOUBLES
If the characters’ Status drops below the minimum of 
16 to be allowed into the Royal Halls and the courts 
themselves, they get more than just dirty looks. Every 
day, the queen’s champion arrives in the form of an 
empty cloak or a monolith footman and seeks to drive 
out the party—or at least the party members with 
low Status. Each time the champion hits, a character 
is teleported from the courts to the prince’s hunting 
lodge in the Shadow Realm. The character might visit 
distant keeps and lodges and receive invitations to 
falconry and demon fox hunts, but remains away from 
the courts for a few days. Tell the player that his or her 
character has been replaced by a changeling, and to 
act accordingly; the real character will return at some 
future point.
Shadow Doubles. Behind the scenes, the missing 
character is replaced in the combat at the start of the 
next round by a fey shadow double. The usual player 
can be informed of the switch if you see fit; the real 
character returns 1d4 days later.
Psoglav Demon
Large fiend (demon), chaotic evil
Armor Class 17 (natural armor)
Hit Points 115 (11d10 + 55)
Speed 40 ft., fly 60 ft. 
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
21 (+5)	 23 (+6)	
20 (+5)	
16 (+3)	
19 (+4)	 18 (+4)
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 65 ---
64
Saving Throws Dex +9, Con +8, Wis +7, Cha +7
Skills Acrobatics +9, Perception +6, Intimidation +7, 
Stealth +9
Damage Resistances cold, lightning
Damage Immunities fire, poison
Condition Immunities poisoned
Senses blindsight 30 ft., darkvision 60 ft., passive 
Perception 16
Languages Abyssal, Common, Infernal, telepathy 60 ft. 
Challenge 7 (2,900 XP)
Innate Spellcasting. The psoglav’s innate 
spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 15). 
It can innately cast the following spell, requiring 
no material components: 
1/day: greater invisibility
Magic Weapons. The psoglav’s weapon attacks are 
magical.
Shadow Door (4/Day). The psoglav can travel between 
shadows as if by means of a dimension door spell. The 
magical transport must begin and end in an area with 
at least some dim light. The shadow door can span a 
maximum of 90 feet. 
ACTIONS
Multiattack. The psoglav makes three bite attacks. 
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 18 (2d12 + 5) piercing damage.
Steal Shadow (Recharge 5–6). The psoglav emits a 
beam from its single eye. One target it can see within 
60 feet is pushed back 20 feet and must succeed on a 
DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or be knocked prone. The 
target’s shadow stays in the space the target originally 
occupied, and acts as an undead shadow under the 
command of the psoglav.  
	
If the creature whose shadow was stolen flees the 
encounter, it has no shadow for 1d12 days, after which 
the undead shadow fades and the creature’s natural 
shadow returns. The undead shadow steals the body 
of the original creature if the creature is killed; in that 
case, the creature returns to life with half its maximum 
hit points, its alignment shifts to evil, and it falls under 
the command of the psoglav. The original creature 
regains its natural shadow immediately if the undead 
shadow dies.  
	
A creature whose shadow is stolen by this ability 
can’t have its shadow stolen again by any psoglav for 
the next 24 hours, but it can still be pushed back and 
knocked prone. 
Malphas (Storm Crow)
Medium fey, neutral evil
Armor Class 16 (studded leather)
Hit Points 120 (16d8 + 48)
Speed 40 ft., fly 30 ft. 
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
19 (+4)	
19 (+4)	
16 (+3)	
14 (+2)	
13 (+1)	
14 (+2)
Saving Throws Dex +7, Con +6, Wis +4, Cha +5
Skills Perception +4
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 14
Languages Common, Giant, Ravenfolk, Sylvan
Challenge 6 (2,300 XP)
Innate Spellcasting. The malphas’s innate spellcasting 
ability is Charisma. It can innately cast the following 
spells, requiring no material components: 
At will: magic missile
1/day: haste
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 66 ---
65
Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the malphas 
has disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks that rely on sight.
Night Terror. As a bonus action immediately after hitting 
with a melee attack, the malphas can cast magic missile 
through its weapon at the same target.
Swordtrained. Malphas are trained from youth in 
combat. They are proficient with all martial melee and 
ranged weapons. 
ACTIONS
Multiattack. The malphas makes three longsword 
attacks.
Longsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., 
one target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) slashing damage, or 9 (1d10 
+ 4) slashing damage if used with two hands.
REACTIONS
Shadow Call. A malphas can cast magic missile as a 
reaction when it is hit by a ranged weapon attack.
Development
If a shadow double has been conjured up by a monolith 
footman (see the “Steep Drops in Status and Shadow 
Doubles” sidebar, page 63), the real character returns 
from the forest within 1d4 days (and is again played 
by the player). The shadow double was a servant of the 
Moonlit King, and when the real character returns, the 
shadow double mocks the party, saying:
“You cannot see through the simplest trickery, so I 
go to report what I have learned to my master, the 
Moonlit King. Farewell, fools!” The figure’s skin peels 
away, leaving only a core of mist and shadows that 
fades to nothing.
The shadow double is as good as its word, teleporting 
away unless the party takes extreme measures to hold 
the shadow double in place. In that case, the double is 
revealed as a member of the court, one of the Ravens, 
who protests his treatment and demands an audience 
with someone “of proper noble blood” or offers a 
payment of ransom.
Treasure
The “dogs” and “crows” have treasure in the form of 
gemstones on their collars. These are five emeralds (each 
worth 1,000 gp) and one blood-red carbuncle (worth 700 
gp). In addition, gathering a few hairs from the tails of 
the dog-demons can help the Grey Ladies (see page 71) 
in their weaving and spinning of a magical tapestry and 
complete a minor quest. The dogs are unwilling to give 
up their hair; doing so requires either killing a psoglav 
and taking its hair, making a successful attack with a 
slashing weapon against a grappled psoglav, or making a 
successful DC 25 Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) check.
Act II, Scene 4:  
The Blue Horse and the Kennels
In this scene, the horse and hounds become visible 
to a character who has a Status of 3 or higher. Other 
characters can see them if they are pointed out and 
those characters make successful DC 20 Intelligence 
(Investigation) checks.
THE BLUE HORSE 
You enter the stables, and you see a blue horse in the 
largest stall. The animal has a white mane and silver 
shoes.
The Black Prince rides the blue horse, Lazulin, 
whenever he travels to his hunting lodge, hunts in the 
Margreve Forest, inspects the nearest shadow fey villages, 
or gambles and carouses two days’ ride away through 
the woods in the Hidden City of Corremel (his major 
fiefdom). Contrariwise, the horse is a much gentler steed 
when carrying Princess Vailessia Graystone.
Riding the horse is difficult, whether mounting it 
successfully (DC 20 Dexterity [Acrobatics] check) 
or getting it to obey even simple commands (DC 25 
Wisdom [Animal Handling] check). Riding the horse 
without permission is an insult to the prince and results 
in a −2 deduction to Status for the rider. Gaining 
permission is rare and happens only for one of the 
prince’s favorites (see “The Hunting Lodge: Catching the 
Firebird,” page 116). In addition, riding the blue horse 
without permission leads to a challenge to a duel by one 
of the Ravens (see page 68). 
The horse listens intently when anyone attempts 
to quietly converse in the stables, and the prince 
occasionally learns secrets from it.
THE PSOGLAV 
Human mythology is filled with thousands of 
demons, a sign of just how many things we—or 
our ancestors—feared. One of these, from Serbian 
mythology, is the psoglav: a one-eyed dog demon 
with iron teeth. With that description, it seemed 
like a good fit for the pack that serves the Queen of 
Night and Magic.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 67 ---
66
THE HOUNDS OF THE MARGREVE 
About a dozen large black dogs are sleeping in a large 
pile in a room behind the stables, snoring softly. A 
collection of enormous and well-chewed bones is 
scattered around them.
Befriending the Hounds. Befriending the shadow 
hounds is a skill challenge or a roleplaying encounter. 
It requires three successful DC 17 Wisdom (Animal 
Handling) checks before three failures. Each failure 
increases the DC of subsequent checks by 1. An offering 
of freshly killed meat (at least the size of a Medium 
creature) grants advantage on the checks. A character 
who can speak to the hounds (such as with a speak with 
animals spell) can substitute Charisma (Persuasion) 
checks instead.
Alternatively, if the characters bring the hounds a 
freshly killed deer each day for a week, the hounds come 
to trust them. Hunting deer in the forest requires a 
successful DC 18 Wisdom (Survival) check. Each hunt 
takes five hours to complete. 
Gaining the favor of the hounds grants advantage 
on interactions with Kolya, and shifts his attitude to 
friendly. The characters gain 2,000 XP.
Taunting the Hounds. Teasing the shadow hounds 
brings no Status penalty, but it is very foolish: 2d6 
hounds are present in the stables at any time, and they 
attack the teaser en masse if any of the hounds take 
damage. Killing one of the prince’s hounds results in an 
immediate −2 deduction to Status and a challenge from 
Kolya the Kennel Master to “bows at 5 paces,” although 
he hates dueling.
THE KENNEL MASTER
Kolya is in charge of the hunting dogs and the kennel 
boys. Although a minor noble, he is rarely found in the 
courts proper, having a great disdain for the duels and 
games of the courtiers. Kolya appears as a tall shadow 
fey with wolfish features. He dresses in black hunting 
leathers and carries several heavy knives about his 
person. In more formal circumstances, he adds a fine 
feathered hat to his ensemble. Kolya comes across as 
blunt and unrefined. 
Though unlikely to challenge a character to a duel, 
Kolya could face the party in direct combat; the prince 
has often arranged hunts in which his enemies become 
the prey. Kolya can also be a source of information, 
since he is an ally of the prince and he is aware of gossip 
that takes place in the presence of the kennel boys 
(too low in Status to be noticed, secrets are sometimes 
discussed around them as though they weren’t there). 
It is even possible to gain Kolya as an ally—he pines 
for Maurelle, one of the queen’s ladies in waiting. 
Characters who play 
matchmaker would 
earn a great boon by 
helping the lonely 
kennel master.
VOICES IN THE DARK
The courts might be empty, but they aren’t 
necessarily quiet. If things grow dull or the 
players are unsure what to do, send them 
on a wild goose chase with voices of shadow 
fey mages: whispering voices tease and lead 
them directly into an encounter with some of the 
shadow hounds (see page 35) of the Invisible Court. 
	
Not all voices need be hostile. Singers praising 
the queen or the prince and princess make a perfect 
accompaniment to the Invisible Court, confounding 
the characters’ ability to find them. The same trick 
could be used later in the adventure with a chorus 
of lantern dragonettes during Act III. It could be 
very annoying for the heroes to be serenaded while 
they’re trying to sneak around.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 68 ---
67
Kolya the Kennel Master
Medium humanoid (elf), neutral evil
Armor Class 15 (chain shirt)
Hit Points 105 (14d8 + 42)
Speed 40 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
19 (+4)	 15 (+2)	
16 (+3)	
14 (+2)	
14 (+2)	 16 (+3)
Saving Throws Dex +5, Con +7, Cha +6
Skills Arcana +5, Perception +5, Stealth +8, Survival +5
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 15
Languages Common, Elvish, Umbral
Challenge 5 (1,800 XP)
Fey Ancestry. Kolya has advantage on saving throws 
against being charmed, and magic can’t put him to 
sleep.
Innate Spellcasting. Kolya’s innate spellcasting ability 
is Charisma. He can cast the following spell innately, 
requiring no material components. 
3/day: misty step (when in shadows, dim light, or 
darkness only)
Sneak Attack (1/Turn). Kolya deals an extra 7 (2d6) 
damage when he hits a target with a weapon attack and 
has advantage on the attack roll, or when the target is 
within 5 feet of an ally of Kolya that isn’t incapacitated 
and Kolya doesn’t have disadvantage on the attack roll.
Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, Kolya has 
disadvantage on attack rolls and on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks that rely on sight.
Traveler in Darkness. Kolya has advantage on 
Intelligence (Arcana) checks made to know about 
shadow roads and shadow magic spells or items.
ACTIONS
Multiattack. Kolya makes two attacks. 
Rapier. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) piercing damage plus 7 (2d6) 
poison damage.
Longbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, range 
150/600 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d8 + 2) piercing damage 
plus 7 (2d6) poison damage.
Act II, Scene 5: The Court Musician
Eracen is an elf from the mortal world who has—
much against his will—become the mournful court 
musician to the Shadow Realm. Eracen might become 
an ally of the characters, but he demands some show of 
competence before truly befriending the party: 
The thin elf’s smile is wholly unnerving: not because 
any malice or cruelty lurks beyond his perfectly 
straight-toothed grin, but because of its unnatural 
intensity. The pale man looks as if he were posing for 
some portrait, waiting for a painter to capture him. 
Even in a painting, the fellow would be somewhat 
disquieting. His pale blue eyes peer out wildly from 
beneath his blond locks, most of which are gathered 
in a long ponytail. His snow-white skin lacks any of the 
flush or blooded hue of health. 
Eracen longs for something rare in the courts of 
the shadow fey: a reprieve. Not native to the Shadow 
Realm, Eracen found long ago that he lacked the 
stomach for the treachery and cruelty of his hosts. Still, 
the elf knows he must play along or face the shadow 
fey’s punishment. He often wonders if this imagined 
penalty could possibly outstrip the torture of his virtual 
imprisonment. Eracen is imprisoned because he is a 
violinist without peer. With his face pressed against the 
violin’s cool wood, the haunted elf occasionally finds 
peace. In his hands, the bow ignites the string with fiery 
notes that stir whatever embers still glow in his heart. 
Ultimately, this warmth is an illusion; his majestic, 
mournful music becomes a court favorite, as necessary 
to a social event as the royal family itself. If it was only 
his spirit being crushed, Eracen might still rail against 
his lot, but his body grows weak as well. The Master 
Summoner, Count Sammas Hollowgrin, regularly 
takes Eracen’s blood to fuel his rituals; these rituals 
use his non-native blood to fuel portals to, in Count 
Hollowgrin’s words, the “lighted planes.” As long as 
Eracen remains strong enough to perform, this torture 
is allowed and even praised by the court. 
Despite all this, Eracen attempts to display an upbeat 
persona. He laughs. He bursts into song and dance. He 
tells jokes and regales with stories. He does it all with a 
smile etched into his face and a hollow feeling of self-
betrayal gripping his heart. In his own time, he often 
drinks himself into oblivion, desperate to escape.
Dealing with the Characters. Outwardly, Eracen is 
humorous and gregarious. His jokes are bawdy, and 
his stories are gossipy. The slender elf often touches 
others when he talks: a soft tap on the back, a slight 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 69 ---
68
grip of the shoulder, a lean into the personal space of 
another. When spoken to, he laughs loudly at even 
the smallest hint of comedy, and follows it up with 
overzealous compliments. He fawns over the characters’ 
accomplishments and lavishes attention on them.
In other words, Eracen quickly grows annoying. 
He does have his uses, though. He is a storehouse of 
information and has no qualms about discussing the 
court with the characters; of course, even when he 
doesn’t know something, he does not hesitate to offer 
gossip in its stead.
Most important, his standing as Chief Entertainer 
allows him and those he vouches for access to some of 
the lesser functions and locales with minimal hassle. 
Serving as guide, informant, and confidant to the 
characters offers him no end of pleasure. He doesn’t 
bother hiding this enjoyment, often speaking in a 
conspiratorial tone when regarding their shadowy hosts. 
Eracen strives to nurture a love of music, especially the 
violin, within the characters. He will spend time, often 
gossiping about the shadow fey and the court, teaching 
the characters how to play the violin. It is only during 
these lessons that Eracen displays any anger (and even 
then, it seems clearly a slip from his usual demeanor). 
He responds to repeated failure or disinterest with 
sharp, biting retorts, although he often apologizes 
profusely afterward and blames these outbursts on his 
passion for music.
Motivation. Eracen’s offer of friendship and aid to the 
characters is born out of his desperation to leave the 
court. He believes that if he helps the characters grow 
more popular than he is, he would be granted an escape 
from the woeful work of playing for his captors. Though 
he pins his hopes on teaching the characters to become 
musicians, Eracen takes any measure of popularity they 
gain in any discipline and promotes it. This could be 
demon fighting, dueling, arcane mastery . . . to Eracen 
each endeavor represents a possible escape.
Development. Becoming too closely associated with 
Eracen might cost the characters something eventually; 
the courtesans are not fond of him, and the duelists 
consider him largely beneath contempt. Over time, 
the characters might realize that their elf guide is but a 
minor cog of the court—and they might abandon him 
as well, moving on into higher social spheres. At that 
point, his hopes dashed, Eracen might grow desperate 
enough to attempt a kidnapping or assault of some 
kind—and if that fails, perhaps even suicide.
Treasure
Befriending Eracen and keeping him living in hope 
eventually pays off. The character who invests the most 
time and effort in befriending him, by playing music 
and such, is rewarded with the gift of an appropriate 
uncommon magic item. Ideally, this is a miscellaneous 
item related to music, rather than armor or weaponry, 
but the idea is simply that Eracen gives one of his 
greatest treasures to the characters in return for the 
friendship they have shown.
Act II, Scene 6:  
The Ravens in the Court
The young duelists and rakes of little Status often hang 
out in the dueling grounds (1d8 − 3 of them are present 
there at any given time). The duelists all share the same 
statistics and are, frankly, both curious about visitors 
and spoiling for a fight with anyone who seems willing 
to give them one. Their dueling skills are formidable, 
but otherwise they are variously spoiled, vain, and self-
centered. If the characters spend any time questioning 
them (or even just practicing their martial skills in the 
courtyard), one of the Ravens named Josha Migallisti 
approaches them and challenges them to a test of skill at 
arms. Read the following:
A young shadow fey approaches, his hand on his hilt, 
and sneers. “This is our court, and not for visitors. You 
carry a worthy blade and are a man of honor. And yet 
you have acted dishonorably, poking your nose where 
it does not belong.” He draws his sword. 
	 “Defend yourself, or be proved a coward.” 
Wisdom (Insight) DC 15—The challenge is clearly to a 
formal duel; you are not expected to fight to the death, 
but there are probably rules about what is a “proper” 
duel. 
If the player asks, describe the dueling rules briefly. If 
the character agrees to the duel, use the dueling rules on 
page 99. The opponent is a shadow fey duelist (AC 17, 
117 hp, Rapier. +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 9 
(1d8 + 5) piercing damage plus 7 (2d6) poison damage; 
Parry. The shadow fey duelist adds 3 to its AC against 
one melee attack that would hit it. To do so, it must see 
the attacker and be wielding a melee weapon; see Tome 
of Beasts for full statistics). 
At the end of the duel, the character gains or loses 
Status as described on page 99. Read the following if the 
character did not cheat: 
“You fought well.” Your foe bows to you. “Join us in 
the Ravens, the noble society of the blade. None shall 
oppose you with our support.” 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 70 ---
69
If the characters decide on a general brawl rather than 
a duel, they each suffer a −3 deduction to Status and 
take part in the following encounter. As the fey say, 
when the prince smiles, the queen herself is pleased. 
When the prince whispers 
a word of complaint, the 
queen frowns and the court weeps.
BRAWLING, NOT DUELING
The rakes stand in the arcade. They shout and taunt 
the characters while fighting, and a crowd of goblins, 
half‑elves, low-Status shadow fey, and human 
changelings quickly gathers to watch the duel. The 
crowd fills most of the space in the arcade and around 
the open central area where the Ravens flash their 
weapons and boast.
Crowd. Entering the crowd requires a successful DC 
17 Strength (Athletics) check to push through or a DC 
15 Dexterity (Acrobatics) check to slip through. Failure 
means that the moving character ends their movement 
in the first crowd space. A character affected by pass 
without trace or similar magic can move through the 
crowd without a check.
Regaining Status. If the characters win the brawl 
without killing anyone, they gain a +3 increase to Status 
(regaining the points lost from brawling in the first 
place), but they gain no additional Status.
ENCOUNTER CHOICES
Hard—Brightspur, 2 shadow fey rakes
Hard—Brightspur, 3 shadow fey rakes
Deadly—Brightspur, 4 shadow fey rakes, 1 hound of the 
night
Brightspur, First Knife of the Ravens
Medium humanoid (elf), neutral evil
Armor Class 16 (studded leather)
Hit Points 78 (12d8 + 24)
Speed 30 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
11 (+0)	 18 (+4)	
14 (+2)	
10 (+0)	
11 (+0)	 14 (+2)
Saving Throws Dex +7, Int +3
Skills Arcana +3, Acrobatics +7, Deception +5, Perception 
+3, Stealth +9
Damage Resistances poison
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 13
Languages Common, Elvish, thieves’ cant, Umbral
Challenge 8 (3,900 XP)
Assassinate. During his first turn, Brightspur has 
advantage on attack rolls against any creature that 
hasn’t taken a turn. Any hit Brightspur scores against a 
surprised creature is a critical hit.
Evasion. If Brightspur is subjected to an effect that allows 
him to make a Dexterity saving throw to take only half 
damage, Brightspur instead takes no damage if he 
succeeds on the saving throw, and only half damage if 
he fails. 
Fey Ancestry. Brightspur has advantage on saving throws 
against being charmed, and magic can’t put him to 
sleep. 
Innate Spellcasting. Brightspur’s innate spellcasting 
ability is Charisma. He can cast the following spell 
innately, requiring no material components: 
2/day: misty step (when in shadows, dim light, or 
darkness only)
Sneak Attack (1/Turn). Brightspur deals an extra 14 
(4d6) damage when he hits a target with a weapon 
attack and has advanrage on the attack roll, or when the 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 71 ---
70
target is within 5 feet of an ally of Brightbpur that isnt’ 
incapacitated and Brightspur doesn’t have disadvantage 
on the attack roll.
Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, Brightspur 
has disadvantage on attack rolls and on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks that rely on sight.
Traveler in Darkness. Brightspur has advantage on 
Intelligence (Arcana) checks made to know about 
shadow roads and shadow magic spells or items.
ACTIONS
Multiattack. Brightspur makes two rapier attacks.
Rapier. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) piercing damage, and the target 
must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw, taking 34 
(7d6) poison damage on a failed save, or half as much 
damage on a successful one.
Longbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, range 
150/600 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 8) piercing damage, 
and the target must make a DC 15 Constitution saving 
throw, taking 34 (7d6) poison damage on a failed save, 
or half as much damage on a successful one.
Brightspur is a boastful, preening sort who laughs as 
he cuts enemies down. His richly decorated weapon is 
difficult to see clearly, and he wields it with confidence. 
A cosmetic alchemical treatment makes the weapon 
opaque.
Shadow Fey Rake
Medium humanoid (elf), neutral evil
Armor Class 16 (studded leather)
Hit Points 104 (16d8 + 32)
Speed 30 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
12 (+1)	 18 (+4)	
14 (+2)	
11 (+0)	
10 (+0)	 15 (+2)
Saving Throws Dex +6, Cha +4
Skills Acrobatics +6, Arcana +2, Intimidation +4
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 10
Languages Common, Elvish, Umbral
Challenge 4 (1,100 XP)
Fey Ancestry. The shadow fey has advantage on saving 
throws against being charmed, and magic can’t put it to 
sleep.
Innate Spellcasting. The shadow fey’s innate spellcasting 
ability is Charisma. It can cast the following spell 
innately, requiring no material components:
2/day: misty step (when in shadows, dim light, or 
darkness only)
Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the shadow 
fey has disadvantage on attack rolls and on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks that rely on sight.
Traveler in Darkness. The shadow fey has advantage 
on Intelligence (Arcana) checks made to know about 
shadow roads and shadow magic spells or items.
ACTIONS
Multiattack. The shadow fey makes two melee attacks. 
Rapier. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) piercing damage plus 7 (2d6) 
poison damage.
REACTIONS
Parry. The shadow fey rake adds 2 to its AC against one 
melee attack that would hit it. To do so, the rake must 
see the target and be wielding a melee weapon.
Hound of the Night
Large monstrosity, neutral evil
Armor Class 16 (natural armor)
Hit Points 112 (15d10 + 30)
Speed 50 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
20 (+5)	 16 (+3)	
14 (+2)	
9 (–1)	
14 (+2)	 10 (+0)
Saving Throws Dex +6, Con +5, Wis +5
Skills Intimidation +3, Perception +5, Stealth +6
Damage Vulnerabilities fire
Damage Immunities cold
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 16
Languages understands Elvish and Umbral but can’t speak
Challenge 5 (1,800 XP)
Blood Scent. A hound of the night can follow a scent 
through phase shifts, ethereal movement, dimension 
door, and fey steps of any kind. Teleport and plane shift 
are beyond its ability to follow.
Innate Spellcasting. The hound’s innate spellcasting 
ability is Wisdom. It can innately cast the following spell, 
requiring no material components: 
At will: dimension door
ACTIONS
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 21 (3d10 + 5) piercing damage, and the 
target must succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving throw 
or be knocked prone.
Frost Breath (Recharge 5–6). The hound exhales a 
15‑foot cone of frost. Each creature in the cone must 
make a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw, taking 44 (8d10) 
cold damage on a failed save or half as much damage 
on a successful one.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 72 ---
71
Brightspur opens up by using Sneak Attack against 
lightly armored spellcasters.
The shadow fey rakes constantly press their advantage. 
Their greatest trick is to use misty step to achieve a 
flanking position and attack an unassuming target. 
Brightspur and the rakes will happily accept the 
voluntary surrender of any foe and might even offer this 
way out to a clearly bloodied and beaten enemy. They 
never strike to kill unless one of their own party has been 
killed first; they strike to subdue or incapacitate, leaving 
their foe down and out rather than down and dead. 
The hound works to continually provide Brightspur a 
flanking opportunity.
Development. Winning in a brawl without killing 
anyone cancels out the Status loss, but the party makes 
enemies of the Ravens permanently. The characters 
must find someone else to duel for Status; the Ravens 
won’t have it unless a profound and sincere apology 
is forthcoming—requiring either a successful DC 
23 Charisma (Persuasion) check from the character 
they challenged to the proper duel, or a bribe in the 
form of a token from some other faction member or 
a miscellaneous magic item of uncommon or greater 
rarity.
Treasure
If a character fights the duel and wins, the winner gains 
a +4 increase to Status if during dueling season—or a +6 
increase to Status if not during dueling season (see Table 
3–2: Status Changes from Duels, page 99) and is offered 
membership in the Ravens. A character who accepts this 
offer is given a +1 magic weapon as a sign of the Ravens’ 
respect. If the character does join the faction, Brightspur 
shares some information about possible other duels to 
fight (avoid Baron Suvid if possible), about the Bridge of 
Night (see area 26), and about the finest courtesans. He 
offers two minor quests:
•  Lose a duel with him in front of the courtesan 
Lishekki, his current flame (thereby taking a −3 
deduction to Status in the cause of love); award each 
character 600 XP if completed.
•  Bring him the albino raven from the Moon-Viewing 
Tower; award each character 900 XP if completed.
Whether the party joins the faction or not, winning 
a duel makes them less of a target for the Ravens’ 
attentions, and the other party members are accepted as 
worthy of the Ravens’ conversation and perhaps a little 
swordplay.
Act II, Scene 7:  
The Grey Ladies Spin
When the party has one character with a Status of 11 or 
higher, the group is invited to visit the Grey Ladies, a 
coterie of elderly shadow fey noblewomen and former 
courtesans who gossip, knit, and weave various items 
of finest silk and shadowstuff. They are hardly power 
players in the court, but they are a faction with at least 
a little influence, mostly because of the respect that 
the shadow fey pay to their elderly. Many fey nobles 
remember their former courtesans very fondly, a fact 
that the Grey Ladies exploit rarely but ruthlessly.
If the party accepts the invitation, read the following:
The room is well lit with gentle yellow light; two 
lantern dragonettes seem to watch the knitting of the 
elderly ladies of the court carefully. Two white-haired 
men work an enormous loom together, the shuttle 
flying so fast it cannot be seen. The threads of the 
tapestry they are creating seem to sing a song of 
power, strengthening the sense of potent magic in the 
air. Flakes of shadowstuff drip from the loom. 
	 In addition to the men, ladies in dresses and shawls 
of soft gray mouse fur are sitting on tall chairs, knitting 
long, complicated . . . nets? Veils? It’s difficult to tell.
Intelligence (Arcana) DC 17—The song of the tapestry is 
indeed arcane but not yet at full strength. 
Wisdom (Perception) DC 19—The knitters are working 
on neither a net nor a veil but a long, strange cloak. 
At its intersections hang small silver stars; the threads 
themselves are made of black yarn.
If a character has accepted the ritual of true sight from 
Revich the Blind Seer (see page 75), read the following:
Of the fey here, the ones weaving on the loom are just 
as they seem. The knitters, though, are not quite what 
one might think. Their needles are made of bone, the 
black yarn they use seems oddly metallic, and the 
knitting elderly ladies of the court are . . . spider-like, at 
the very least. Each has mandibles and four arms, a bit 
like a more refined ettercap. 
	 “Stop staring,” says one of them. “Your eyes might 
fall out.”
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 73 ---
72
Let the characters introduce themselves, and then read 
or paraphrase the following:
“We are pleased you have come to us. Give us a 
portion of your courage and your strength, thirteen 
threads from one of your heads. We shall weave it into 
the loom, and your prestige among the court will rise, 
for you will be numbered with us, the ladies whose 
weaving gathers shadow and light and makes them 
into the turning wheel of Fate.”
Wisdom (Insight) DC 18, if suspicious—The offer seems 
remarkably generous for the fey. There might be more 
to it. 
The characters are well advised to tread carefully and 
ask questions before saying yes. Any character who 
gives up thirteen hairs from their head also loses 10 
from their hit point maximum or loses one of their 
highest-level spell slots for the rest of the adventure—
but making this sacrifice means they are permitted to 
join the Grey Ladies faction.
If a character agrees and joins the faction, the Grey 
Ladies speak again:
“We are glad you have chosen wisely, and we 
are pleased to see you rise in the court’s esteem. 
But remember us, or else we will most assuredly 
remember you when the time comes. So it is woven, 
so will it be done.”
As a member of the faction, the character gains a +4 
increase to Status and is awarded a badge of woven gray 
silk as well as a boon (see “Treasure” below) while losing 
the hit points or the spell slot. This penalty is lifted (and 
membership in the faction ends) when the character 
leaves the realm and returns to the mortal world. If the 
character has been respectful, however, the ladies fondly 
recall the character’s association in future dealings.
FIGHTING FATE
Intelligence (Investigation) DC 16—These fey are cloaked 
in thick illusion, but underneath, they are not normal 
fey at all; the women are six-armed creatures with 
compound eyes, and their clacking knitting needles 
are made of bones and steel.
A character who succeeds on this check sees through 
the illusion that the Grey Ladies maintain about 
themselves, and realizes that the women among them 
are six-armed arachnoid fey.
Chaos ensues when it becomes clear that a mortal 
has seen through their disguise, and the Grey Ladies 
demand an immediate, sincere apology (which requires 
a successful DC 20 Charisma [Persuasion] check from 
the offending speaker), or they demand the characters 
leave and never return. If the characters make a fuss, the 
quicksteps attack to force them out.
ENCOUNTER CHOICES
Medium (8th-level characters)—2 quicksteps, 1 Grey 
Lady fatespinner
Hard (8th-level characters)—2 quicksteps, 2 Grey Lady 
fatespinners
Hard (10th-level characters)—2 quicksteps, 2 Grey 
Lady fatespinners, 2 shadow fey rakes
Grey Lady Fatespinner
Medium fey, neutral
Armor Class 15 (natural armor)
Hit Points 78 (12d8 + 24)
Speed 30 ft., climb 30 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
14 (+2)	 18 (+4)	
15 (+2)	
14 (+2)	
15 (+2)	 20 (+5)
Skills Deception +8, Perception +5, Stealth +7
Damage Resistances bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing 
damage from nonmagical attacks
Damage Immunities poison
Condition Immunities poisoned
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 15
Languages Common, Elvish, Umbral
Challenge 5 (1,800 XP)
Glamour Veil. As an action, the Grey Lady can cloak 
herself in an illusion of a Medium humanoid. The illusion 
is nearly perfect, and even fools the sense of touch. A 
creature inspecting the Grey Lady can make a DC 16 
Intelligence (Investigation) check as an action. On a 
success, the creature can see through the illusion to 
glimpse the Grey Lady’s hazy true form. The illusion 
fades if the Grey Lady falls unconscious or if she dies.
Spider Climb. The Grey Lady can climb difficult surfaces, 
including upside down on ceilings, without needing to 
make an ability check. 
Touch of Fate. The Grey Lady has advantage on all saving 
throws.
Web Sense. While in contact with a web, the Grey Lady 
knows the exact location of any other creature in 
contact with the same web. 
Web Walker. The Grey Lady ignores movement 
restrictions caused by webbing.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 74 ---
73
ACTIONS
Multiattack. The Grey Lady makes three attacks: 
one with her bite and two with her claws. If her Web 
action is available, she can make one web attack in 
place of a bite. 
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
creature. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) piercing damage plus 10 (3d6) 
poison damage. The creature must succeed on a DC 13 
Constitution saving throw or be poisoned for 1 minute. 
The creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of 
each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success.
Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) slashing damage.
Web (Recharge 5–6). Ranged Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, 
range 30/60 ft., one Large or smaller creature. Hit: The 
creature is restrained by webbing. As an action, the 
restrained creature can make a DC 13 Strength check, 
escaping from the webbing on a success. The effect 
also ends if the webbing is destroyed. The webbing has 
AC 10, 5 hit points, vulnerability to fire damage, and 
immunity to bludgeoning, poison, and psychic damage.
Quickstep
Small fey, chaotic evil
Armor Class 15 
Hit Points 110 (20d6 + 40)
Speed 120 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
9 (–1)	
21 (+5)	
14 (+2)	
12 (+1)	
15 (+2)	 11 (+0)
Saving Throws Dex +8
Skills Acrobatics +11, Perception +8, Sleight of Hand 
+11, Stealth +11
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 18
Languages Common, Umbral
Challenge 5 (1,800 XP)
Evasion. If the quickstep is subjected to an effect that 
allows it to make a Dexterity saving throw to take only 
half damage, it instead takes no damage if it succeeds 
on the saving throw, and only half damage if it fails.
Sneak Attack (1/Turn). The quickstep deals an extra 
10 (3d6) damage when it hits a target with a weapon 
attack and has advantage on the attack roll, 
or when the target is within 5 feet of an ally 
of the quickstep that isn’t incapacitated 
and the quickstep doesn’t have 
disadvantage on the attack roll.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 75 ---
74
Speed Blur. Attack rolls against the quickstep have 
disadvantage unless its speed is reduced to 0.
ACTIONS
Multiattack. The quickstep makes three shortsword 
attacks.
Shorsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., 
one target. Hit: 8 (1d6 + 5) piercing damage.
Invisibility. The quickstep magically turns invisible 
until it attacks, or until it loses concentration (as if 
concentrating on a spell). Any equipment the quickstep 
wears or carries is invisible with it. 
Shadow Fey Rake
Medium humanoid (elf), neutral evil
Armor Class 16 (studded leather)
Hit Points 104 (16d8 + 32)
Speed 30 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
12 (+1)	 18 (+4)	
14 (+2)	
11 (+0)	
10 (+0)	 15 (+2)
Saving Throws Dex +6, Cha +4
Skills Acrobatics +6, Arcana +2, Intimidation +4
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 10
Languages Common, Elvish, Umbral
Challenge 4 (1,100 XP)
Fey Ancestry. The shadow fey has advantage on saving 
throws against being charmed, and magic can’t put it to 
sleep.
Innate Spellcasting. The shadow fey’s innate spellcasting 
ability is Charisma. It can cast the following spell 
innately, requiring no material components:
2/day: misty step (when in shadows, dim light, or 
darkness only)
Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the shadow 
fey has disadvantage on attack rolls and on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks that rely on sight.
Traveler in Darkness. The shadow fey has advantage 
on Intelligence (Arcana) checks made to know about 
shadow roads and shadow magic spells or items.
ACTIONS
Multiattack. The shadow fey makes two melee attacks. 
Rapier. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) piercing damage plus 7 (2d6) 
poison damage.
REACTIONS
Parry. The shadow fey rake adds 2 to its AC against one 
melee attack that would hit it. To do so, the rake must 
see the target and be wielding a melee weapon.
The fatespinners use their webs to lock down the 
strongest foes, leaving them hampered for the quicksteps 
to cut with sneak attacks then step away.
The quicksteps attack the weakest foes while mocking 
the strongest. They slip past enemies using their speed 
and attack old, unarmored, or slow foes while flanking 
either with each other or with the rakes. They count on 
their high movement rate to get around a group of foes.
Development. If the characters do join this faction, 
they might be asked to undertake a minor quest or two, 
and when they make a Charisma (Persuasion) check 
while at court, they can roll a d4 and add the result to 
the total. Leaving the Grey Ladies without permission 
can be fatal; the faction’s patron, the powerful duelist 
Baron Suvid (see page 106), challenges the unfaithful 
member of the faction to a duel.
Treasure
If the characters defeat the Grey Ladies in combat, the 
characters find an uncommon wondrous magic item. 
The suggested item is a cloth or woven item, such as a 
bag of holding, a cloak of elvenkind, a cloak of protection, 
or slippers of spider climbing. However, if the party 
decides to join this faction, they gain that treasure 
without combat, requiring only the completion of a 
minor quest (which gains each character 700 XP). These 
minor quests might involve any of the following:
•  Fetching twenty strands of horsehair from Lazulin, the 
royal horse (see page 48)
•  Finding a puppy for the princess (see area 40, page 54)
•  Challenging Sir Yngress the Red (see page 102), an elf 
from the River Court, to a duel (winning not required)
Act II, Scene 8: The Blind Seer
The blind seer Revich is the leading power of good 
among the fey, serving the Lords of Light, and is the 
sworn enemy of Akyishigal, the Demon Lord of Roaches 
(see page 109). Sometimes called the Fiery Angel, his gaze 
burns away illusions, and if a character joins his faction, 
the angel might teach that individual a valuable spell. 
Revich serves the harsh god, Khors‑Amon, Lord of the 
Sun, and seeks to purify and convert those members of 
the courts who will listen to him. It is a difficult burden 
to bear, and his faction is a small one. Though he is 
the sworn enemy of all demons and night creatures, 
Revich’s services as a soothsayer and sage are much 
in demand, and his time is largely spoken for. Two 
monolith footmen, the shadow fey duelist Anya, and the 
witchlight (see Tome of Beasts) Krasnaya guard the door 
to the tower—they try to prevent most visitors from 
passing, and they are immune to threats and bribery. A 
character must have a Status of 11 or higher to gain a 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 76 ---
75
legitimate appointment with Revich on his own; those 
with lower Status are ignored.
If a character has a Status of 15 or higher, however, 
the tables turn, and he or she is invited to an audience 
with the seer, who seeks to evaluate this rising star for 
himself. The seer has no intention of answering many 
questions or providing help immediately, but he might 
offer an extremely helpful spell, the ritual of true sight 
(see page 76). 
The members of the Lords of Light faction keep 
Revich in the Tower of the Lords of Light (see 
area 51), at the top of the tower where the lantern 
dragonettes rest and where they are fed. This 
chamber is relatively quiet and well guarded by 
shining radiance; most of the shadow fey avoid it 
for that reason. Others believe that Revich is the 
one who is reluctant to confront the many shadow 
fey outside the tower, and that he remains a hermit 
by choice rather than being secluded because of 
the various lords’ pressures or wardings. Neither 
side is telling much.
AN AUDIENCE WITH REVICH
Before he answers any questions, Revich demands that 
the party wait for a little while in the lowest chamber 
of the Tower of the Lords of Light (area 51). He uses 
this time to privately investigate a candidate by casting 
commune. He asks whether the character has committed 
evil deeds in the mortal world. If the character has a 
shady reputation, this fact will surely come out. Unless 
such deeds were extremely bad, Revich moves on to cast 
the next spell.
Once his communion is complete, he returns to 
question the characters for 5 minutes, using Divine 
Awareness to automatically detect lies. Each lie is a 
mark against them. If the party passes, well and good. If 
not, the servants of the Lords of Light ask the party to 
step out, and inform the highest-Status character of the 
reason why. The party is welcome back to try again in a 
week or a month, depending on the severity of their lies.
Revich, the Blind Seer
Large celestial, lawful good
Armor Class 19 (natural armor)
Hit Points 200 (16d10 + 112)
Speed 40 ft., fly 120 ft. 
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
24 (+7)	 20 (+5)	
24 (+7)	
19 (+4)	
22 (+6)	 25 (+7)
Saving Throws Con +12, Wis +11, Cha +12
Skills Perception +11
Damage Resistances radiant; bludgeoning, piercing, and 
slashing from nonmagical attacks
Condition Immunities charmed, exhaustion, frightened
Senses truesight 120 ft. (blind beyond this radius), passive 
Perception 21
DESIGNER’S NOTE: LORDS OF LIGHT
These arcanists and priests are half secret society, 
half snooty Illuminati who kill demons. They are a 
bit of a personality cult, dropping “as the Seer says” 
into every conversation as they do, but they are also 
valued for their talents within the courts. Most of all, 
they are not beholden to the royal family, or at least 
their interests are tangential to what the royals want, 
and so the Seer and his followers are often a thorn 
in the side of the queen or the Black Prince. 
	
Any character fortunate enough to be accepted 
into the society enjoys partial protection from the 
rage of the fey, because of the special status of the 
lords and ladies.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 77 ---
76
Languages all, telepathy 120 ft.
Challenge 16 (15,000 XP)
Angelic Weapons. Revich’s weapon attacks are magical. 
When Revich hits with any weapon, the weapon deals an 
extra 5d8 radiant damage (included in the attack). 
Blinded Sight. Revich’s natural sight doesn’t function 
while he is in the Shadow Realm. His truesight allows 
him to navigate and sense creatures, but it doesn’t 
allow him to read script, determine color, or any other 
function other than knowing where creatures and 
objects are within its range. 
Divine Awareness. Revich knows if he hears a lie.
Innate Spellcasting. Revich’s spellcasting ability is 
Charisma (spell save DC 20). Revich can innately cast the 
following spells, requiring no material components:
At will: detect evil and good, invisibility (self only)
3/day each: blade barrier, dispel evil and good, flame 
strike, raise dead
1/day each: commune, control weather, insect plague
Magic Resistance. Revich has advantage on saving 
throws against spells and other magical effects.
ACTIONS
Multiattack. Revich makes two melee attacks
Crozier. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 21 (4d6 + 7) bludgeoning damage plus 22 
(5d8) radiant damage.
Healing Touch (4/day). Revich touches another creature. 
The target magically regains 30 (6d8 + 3) hit points and 
is freed from any curse, disease, poison, blindness, or 
deafness.
JOINING THE LORDS OF LIGHT
The Lords are looking to recruit allies to hunt down the 
Demon Lord of Roaches and remove its evil influence 
from the courts. They are somewhat particular about 
who they’ll take; they prefer good-aligned and lawful 
good-aligned heroes who have access to divine power. 
They accept somewhat less than that, however.
Joining the Lords of Light Skill Challenge
Overall Success Requires: 5 successes before 3 failures.
Intelligence (Arcana) DC 20—The lords value wizardry 
and arcane knowledge in all its forms, but they are no 
pushovers for amateurs.
Intelligence (Religion) DC 15—Most fey hold 
Intelligence (Religion) in relatively low esteem; the 
Lords of Light, with their close ties to the angel 
Revich, think otherwise.
Wisdom (Insight) DC 13—What the lords value most 
is understanding and the ability to both empathize 
and (when required) manipulate, so demonstrating 
understanding of their difficult position is hugely 
worthwhile.
Charisma (Persuasion) DC 13—Smooth talk has its 
place. The lords appreciate it as a tool.
Intelligence (Investigation) DC 10—The lords may 
pretend to have great wisdom, but secretly they love 
gossip or (as they call it) “intelligence and advance 
warning.”
Intelligence (History) DC 20—The lords have access to 
an angel who tells them how it was. A historian must 
be very sharp indeed to prevail around those who 
have access to a font of Truth.
Dexterity (Sleight of Hand)—The lords dislike thievery 
and trickery in all its forms. Using this skill results in 
an automatic failure.
Charisma (Deception)—The Lords of Light can detect 
lies (as per zone of truth [Will DC 18], and they detest 
liars. Any attempt to use Charisma (Deception) 
results in an automatic failure.
Using Divine Power—Demonstrating any spells 
or magical effects that harm fiends results in an 
automatic success.
Necromantic Effects: Demonstrating any necromantic 
effect results in 2 failures.
Overall Success: The applicant is recognized as a master 
of the arcane or divine, a wise creature to be respected 
and valued among the fey and blessed by the light of the 
blind seer. The character is immediately inducted into 
the faction in a resounding ceremony: while standing 
atop the tower, his or her name is shouted to the 
heavens while light streams forth from every window 
Shards of a Broken Mind: 
The Root of Madness
The most crucial piece of information the Lords 
of Light possess is the true source of the Moonlit 
King’s madness. 
Revich knows that Akyishigal, the Demon Lord 
of Roaches, is responsible for driving the Moonlit 
King insane. It was one of the demon lord’s many 
festering plagues that shattered the king’s unstable 
mind into splinters. The Blind Angel will share this 
information with the characters only if they join 
his faction and agree to oppose the Demon Lord 
of Roaches. The Lords don’t know why Akyishigal 
went through the trouble to drive the king mad.
This particular secret can also be learned by 
entering the service of Akiyishigal himself (see 
page 109).
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 78 ---
77
and every door of the tower. The shadow courtiers buzz 
about the spectacle for some time after this event. 
The character gains a halo of dim light that shines out 
to 5 feet and can’t be quenched without using magical 
darkness, and is given a lantern dragonette as a mark of 
Status. The character learns the ritual of true sight (see 
the sidebar) over the next 3 days, if he or she wishes 
to do so, and gains a +3 increase to Status (accounting 
for the acquisition of the dragonette, the halo, and the 
ritual; if the dragonette gift is refused, the character gains 
+1 Status from the halo and the offer of the ritual alone).
Overall Failure: The Lords of Light cast the applicant 
out of the tower and make it known that he or she is not 
welcome. The character gains a +1 increase to Status 
among the fey and will be approached by a servant 
of Akyishigal with a counteroffer that very night. In 
addition, the lords will consider the character an enemy; 
Baron Suvid is likely to challenge the character to a duel 
on some pretext, or might attempt to intimidate him or 
her if their Status is too low to permit dueling.
Act III: The Honored Guests
Deck thyself, my soul, with gladness, Leave the gloomy 
haunts of sadness, Come into the daylight’s splendor . . .
                —Johann Franck, Schmücke dich, O liebe Seele
 . . . amongst the upper classes extreme politeness is merely 
the most highly refined expression of one’s scorn for others.
—Arturo Pérez-Reverte, The Flanders Panel
Once the party gains prestige and Status, the Invisible 
Court comes to life with bustle and laughter, and it is, 
if anything, a little crowded; bystanders are common, 
combat is rare, and characters must be on their guard 
against snoops and spies. The empty, echoing spaces of 
the courts suddenly become bright, visible, and filled 
with creatures; everyone is superficially friendly.
In fact, the change is more than friendliness in 
this season. At some level, after the characters defeat 
Akyishigal’s champion roachling or other contenders in 
duels and gain sufficient prestige through other means, 
the characters are feared. At that point, the fey seek to 
get rid of them, politely or through violence. Combat 
is rare in this section of the adventure, because no one 
will fight the party except in a formal duel or (and this 
is quite likely to be entertaining if handled skillfully) 
in the form of a devilish courtesan “fighting” a naked 
character. In bed.
Teleport and Illusion. At the same time, the players 
might think that just because not every monster here is 
trying to have them killed immediately, they have the 
run of the place. Be very clear about this: they don’t. 
The characters’ actions can be constrained by illusion 
and teleport magic, and characters who visit private 
areas can and should be bewitched and be-mazed and 
returned to the Lower Halls dizzied and subject to the 
mockery of sniggering goblins. Stealth and politics 
will be better than combat if the party wants to make 
progress toward the goals of greater Status and to meet 
the power players of the court. Those players, on the 
other hand, are not entirely eager to meet the characters.
Which isn’t to say the various rooms are dull. Certainly, 
finding a demon summoning room or the librarium 
is exciting, but the characters can’t do much about the 
locations. Meeting the devils and demons who stride 
the halls is worthwhile for future reference—some of 
the devils might even treat the characters with courtesy, 
assuming that they speak Infernal or some other 
exotic language. The characters can learn some crucial 
information, gain a valuable spell, and discover both 
gossip and various plot points throughout this section.
Many of the threads are complex enough and the 
design is open enough that it’s up to you to make the 
days pass swiftly and in a style of danger and illusion. 
If all else fails, declare the start of dueling season when 
characters grow twitchy, and make it clear that Baron 
Suvid is in a foul mood.
Fey Names and Types
The courts are constantly in flux, and many fey pass 
through its gates. Here’s a list to choose from when an 
NPC wanders in or when the characters ask a person for 
directions or basic information. The list also includes 
most of the court’s major NPCs and can provide a sense 
of what sorts of creatures inhabit the courts. 
RITUAL OF TRUE SIGHT
5th-level divination (ritual)
Casting Time: 1 hour
Range: Touch 
Components: V, S, M (a small prism; ointment for the 
eyes that costs 250 gp, which the spell consumes) 
Duration: 8 hours
During the hour of sunrise, or sunset, you chant the 
ritual, catching the light in the prism and focusing 
it toward the eyes of the target. At the end of the 
casting time, you must make a DC 17 Intelligence 
(Arcana) check. If you succeed, you anoint the 
target’s eyes with the ointment, and the target gains 
the benefit of true seeing (as the spell) to a distance 
of 30 feet for the duration. 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 79 ---
78
This list is not exhaustive by any means; more than 
two hundred fey live in the courts at any time. Fey 
wander in and out daily; only the titled and older fey 
can be considered permanent inhabitants. To choose 
randomly, roll d% and add the investigating character’s 
Status. The list runs roughly in order of the Status of the 
individuals described.
Creatures tagged with TB can be found in Tome of 
Beasts, and CC indicates that details can be found in 
Creature Codex.
Servants, Scullions, and Orphans (Status 0 to 4)
1
Dazog, a goblin who tallies scraps
2
Karrunk, a shaggy-furred ogre slave
3
Yolksbeard, a sprite egg-thief
4
Pattypan, a sprite squash-monger
5
Thumbless Rottentusk, a troll pariah seeking his 
captured thumbs
6
Feardorcha, a snotty goblin pageboy
7
Puzzletooth, a goblin with a candle melted to his 
head
8
Stiefelmesser, a sprite who tries to steal shoes and 
boots
9
Crow, a ravenfolkTB bandit informer
10
Gentle Bluestem, a fortune-telling goblin cult 
fanatic
11
Silent Billoc, a mute goblin potboy and sneak thief
12
Yowling Marej, a 35-pound, talking, tone-deaf 
awakened calico cat
13
Floppy and Bop, sisters and chambermaids, two 
shadow feyTB triplets along with Cottonwing
14
Melantha Darkflowering, an unwanted tiefling 
child of a shadow fey mother
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 80 ---
79
15
Erlanna, makeup artist and wigmaker, a shadow 
feyTB spy
16
Flippant Fanderol, a barbed devil tailor
17
Firinn, a faceless goblin concubine
18
Orwin, a talking hedgehog, one of the erinaTB and 
a gardener
19
Cinder, a bullying shadow feyTB servant
20
Olva, a human commoner child
21
Velvet, a quickstep (see page 73) knife sharpener
22
Laurian, a cobweb-winged pixie and wine butler
23
Whitemist, an incompetent servant and drunk 
goblin master of the dueling grounds
24
Tenpound Hammer, a goblin thug smith (better 
known by his nickname “Nails”)
25
Amaryllis Amra, a goblin soup cook for the 
Goblin Court
26
Blazing Barda, a goblin, the master cook of the 
Lower Halls, assisted by Skrazag the Meek, an orc 
butcher
27
Fat Lobbo, the half-ogre cook for the Winter Palace
28
Elasstriel, head chef of the Royal Kitchens, 
a shadow feyTB (“Mistress Chopper” to her 
underlings)
Thieves and Tricksters (Status 5 to 9)
29
Sixes, a shadow feyTB gambler (proficient with 
three gaming sets)
30
Ilnas Larack, an ogre bandit captain
31
Bever Eyginly, a shadow feyTB master thief
32
Dappled Hand, a tiefling spy, keeper of lost 
property
33
Fenny the Hat, a shadow feyTB whose head is 
entirely engulfed by his hat
34
Heron, a goblin thief lordCC and messenger 
35
Shay, a shadow fey vampire warlockTB, ruler of her 
own shadow
Monsters (Status 0 to 10)
36
Knifeflick, a (justifiably) bitter gelding painted-
horse centaur courier
37
A rubezahl demonTB who seems to enjoy long 
conversations—counting the words
38
Trundlefilch, a hag-like lamia with a taste for baby 
boys
39
Hoarfrost Driga, a heartbroken ice maidenTB 
seeking a lover—she freezes them to death
Entertainers (Status 10 to 14)
40
Ananuriel, a shadow feyTB bard, singer
41
Vale, a shadow feyTB noble, dancer
42
Caterwaul Buckleburr, a gnome bagpiper wearing 
a necklace of ears
43
Puddingbottom, a gnome spy, jester
44
Zwarosic, a goblin, Keeper of Whimsy
Rakes, Assassins, and Duelists (Status 15 to 19)
45
Phays, a doppelganger assassin
46
Poseymuddle, former goblin spy cat torturer, now 
looking for a position
47
Amelio, a shadow feyTB mage, the Royal Arsonist
48
Mirasto the Skin Tailor, a shadow feyTB assassinCC
49
Silver, a shadow feyTB ambassadorCC, demon 
handler and friend to the House Stross of old
50
Caleb (see page 100), a tiefling spy with a vicious 
wit
51
Gadflit, a shadow fey forest hunterTB who instigates 
duels among others, but avoids them himself
52
Josha Migallisti, a shadow fey rake (see page 9), 
junior duelist among the Ravens
53
Jurok (see page 101), an unorthodox although 
successful goblin duelist
54
Brightspur (see page 69), a young shadow fey 
assassin and leader of the Ravens faction
55
Sir Yngress the Red (see page 102), an eager elf 
knight of the River Court
56
Yikrugrak, the Crawling Knight (see page 102), a 
roachling duelist and servant of the demon lord 
Akyishigal
Doormen, Guards, and Wardens (Status 10 to 14)
57
Dunsnip the Curt, a gargoyle doorman
58
Halgomel, a bitter shadow fey guardianTB
59
Old Socket, the troll sheriff, and Banesniff, his 
iron-smelling shellycoatTB
60
Targomel, an obstinate shadow fey guardianTB 
door guard
61
Marjest the Snide, a shadow fey rake (see page 9) 
doorman
62
Odifiyi Sangazarotti, a shadow feyTB veteran, 
master at arms
63
Imbemerethion, a shadow feyTB knight, captain of 
the guard and possible former lover of the king
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 81 ---
80
Rangers and Huntsmen (Status 10 to 14)
64
Courrant, a goblin bird catcher
65
Prickles, a goblin hunter
66
Fordin of the East, a doppelganger, Master of 
Horses
67
Kolya the Kennel Master (see page 67), Keeper of 
the Royal Hounds, a shadow fey
68
Mongo the Lesser, Warden of the Moonlit Forest, 
a shadow fey forest hunterTB
69
Kynthalig Lickshadow, Master of the Hunt, a 
shadow feyTB scout
Scholars, Sages, and Graybeards (Status 15 to 19)
70
Narin Poolcryer, a dwarf diviner and sage 
extraordinaire
71
Niccela, a shadow feyTB apprentice wizard, 
bookbinder and junior scribe
72
Grey Essicar Goose, a shadow feyTB mage, tutor of 
black knowledge
73
Rhanshinau, a deva herald of truth and friend of 
Revich the Blind Seer (see page 75)
74
Thorngrip, a sprite docent
75
Thistledown, a white-haired gnome noble, codger 
and complainer
76
Holmfirth, a shadow fey crone and wise woman, 
leader of the Grey Ladies (see page 71)
Royal Appointees and Keepers (Status 20 to 22)
77
Moggo, a goblin boss, Chamberlain and Keeper of 
the Goblin Court
78
Achingfast, Royal Corpsehanger and Skullpolisher, 
a swarm of sluaghTB
79
Yllohbur, a gnome druid, master herb gardener 
and gatherer of nightsoil
80
Blistersoot the Royal Glassblower, a grimy and 
vindictive hobgoblin
81
Tarrin Voleslayer, a kobold scout, Royal Owl Keeper
82
Avaniel, a shadow fey forest hunterTB, Keeper of the 
Rookery and Owlery
83
Aileelia, a shadow fey enchantressTB, Keeper of 
Mirrors
84
Halamath Greenleaf, a gnome assassinCC, Royal 
Druggist
85
Grizden Threeblade, a shadow feyTB veteran, Royal 
Armorer, in charge of keeping minions running
86
Ladra, a shadow fey illusionist, Royal Gloomier 
and Trainer of Shadows
87
Lady Katya Hollyoak, a dryad, Royal Oathmaker
88
Lunggristle, Royal Mead Brewer, a quickstep (see 
page 73), stitcher of errant shadows
89
Mashfinger, a troll, Keeper of the King’s Ghoul 
Warrens
90
Spindletwist, a gossamer-winged pixie, Queen’s 
Haberdasher and Lapidary, Keeper of Her Majesty’s 
Personal Adornments
91
Winged Elvesta, a shadow feyTB, Keeper of Lanterns 
(meaning the lantern dragonettes)
92
Yarrow, a shadow feyTB assassinCC, Keeper of Locks 
and Spymaster to Her Majesty
The Passage of Time
Players almost always resist the passage of time. I 
call it the “nothing happens” problem. They seek 
to advance the story every minute, even when the 
people they want to talk to are not always available, 
the places they want to visit are closed, or the work 
they hope to do requires helpers who are sleeping 
or otherwise engaged. Ideally, you can make this 
time pass smoothly with a few tricks and tips.
Fey Time. Describe the season as summer during 
one game session, and autumn the next. If no one 
notices, so be it. Time passes strangely in the fey 
realm. If someone does remark on it, tell them that 
time has gone by without the characters noticing.
The Long Challenge. Not every skill challenge need 
pass quickly. Let one of the factions take a month 
or more to decide whether to admit an applicant to 
their ranks. Checks happen weekly. 
The Weekly Duel. Combats are not fought daily 
during dueling season (see Act III, Scene 4). The 
combatants meet only once a week, perhaps due 
to slower healing in the Shadow Realm (see Slow 
Healing, below).
The Lovers. If a character woos and wins a 
courtesan or consort, the character is inevitably 
spending time with that lover and not on the party’s 
other goals. Roll a 50% chance that the character is 
missing for any particular day or scene—or simply 
say that the lovers are off at a cabin somewhere, 
fishing on an emerald tarn, or giggling behind a 
locked tower door.
Slow Healing. Force things the old-fashioned way; 
say that a full night’s rest in the Shadow Realm takes 
a week, no exceptions. Then let the players set their 
own pace.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 82 ---
81
Courtesans and Consorts (Status 23 to 25)
93
Lord Hargos Enderran the Flame-Cloaked, an elf 
consort (see area 27)
94
Lady Lishekki Almandrine the Silver-Chained, an 
elf courtesan (see area 28)
95
Ulara of the Seven Veils, a shadow feyTB courtesan 
(see area 54)
96
Ballandrine the Frost-Eyed, a human changeling 
consort (see area 57)
97
Mora Moonwater the Rain-Cloaked, a shadow 
feyTB courtesan (see area 55)
98
Songemesha the Raven-Haired, a drow 
enchantress courtesan (see area 56)
99
Maraya/Marek Laccrystae, the Sapphire, a 
succubus courtesan (see page 97)
Courtiers (Status 16 to 20)
100
Cottonwing, a rising shadow feyTB noble and 
triplet with Floppy and Bop (who are mere 
chambermaids)
101
Gwathion Everglade, a shadow fey duelistTB, 
courtier with a temper
102
Meltathraiel, a shadow feyTB assassin, advisor 
with a deep-seated hatred of all non-fey
103
Saulena, a shadow feyTB noble, Mistress of 
Daunts and Dares
104
Hulda Wisenhazy, a malign shadow feyTB gossip
105
Moongallow, a questing high elf knight
106
Sariel, a mysterious shadow feyTB lady in black 
(see area 24)
107
Sir Rujan, Knight of the Barnacle Tree (see page 
105), a shadow fey duelistTB and bully
108
Hawksblood, a high elf spy, dancing master
109
Despoiling Jon, a philandering shadow feyTB 
courtier seeking naive maids
110
Lady Sorreminx (see page 104), an elf sorcerer 
from the Court of the River King
111
Revich the Blind Seer (see page 75), angel of 
truth and leader of the Lords of Light
Titled Nobles (Status 20 and Higher)
112
Baron Coughspittle, Lord of Rotting Leaves, 
Watcher of the Fractured Gate, a deathwisp 
(see page 21) who rules a barony to the north
113
Count and Archmagus Sammas Hollowgrin, 
Master Summoner, Royal Standard Bearer and 
Master of the College of Heraldry, Master of 
Fence, Lord of Fallen Archways and Broken 
Swords, and consort of the queen, a shadow 
feyTB archmage
Design Note: Sandbox and Plot
This arc of the adventure is much less linear than the 
city and Shadow Road, and much less exploratory 
than the Invisible Court; it presumes the characters 
are 9th level or very close to it. There’s no driver 
of the action, and you should feel comfortable 
letting the characters get into trouble on their own. 
(Depending on your players, you might be able to 
just tell them, “It’s up to you to decide what to do 
here.”) If the party feels uncomfortable without an 
obvious set of directions, the challenges to duel 
and the feast gives them a hook, as does enticing 
characters with courtesans and consorts.
	
Avoid giving characters the ability to approach 
the upper echelons of royalty directly (for instance, 
the royals are always stepping through a shadow 
door, leaving just as the characters arrive). Indeed, 
whenever possible, gradually build up the power of 
the queen and the danger of the king, so those two 
meetings in the finale have maximum impact. 
	
For more information on sandbox design, see the 
Kobold Guide to Game Design.
Option: Shadow Passages
As an added twist, you might add shadow passages 
connecting certain rooms. Choose twelve rooms to 
connect in this way but keep the record to yourself, 
so players have to learn the connections slowly.
The shadow passages are usable as part of 
movement by any creature that has shadow 
magic, teleportation, or related abilities to move 
instantaneously from one of the locales to the other. 
Any shadow passage might be locked by the nobles 
of the courts (and all are automatically locked 
during any alarm), but they are generally left open 
for all to use.
Additionally, any creature that has a little 
arcane training can open one as an action with 
a successful Intelligence (Arcana) check. The DC 
varies depending on the user. If the creature is 
fey‑blooded, including a fey, elf, half-elf, or gnome, 
the DC is 15. For any other character, the DC is 20.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 83 ---
82
114
His Grace, Duke Rackclasp, Warden of the 
Early Frost and First Bonecarver, a sluaghTB 
necromancer
115
Jalennis, Lady of the Pale Gardens, a shadow 
feyTB druid
116
Lady Marrowsilk, the Queen’s Counsel 
and Most Learned Advocate, a shadow fey 
enchantressTB
117
Lord Chelessfield (see page 105), Master of the 
Alpine Marches, high elf of the River King’s 
Court
118
Lord Maruuk, a tiefling swashbuckler, diabolic 
ambassador (who wishes never to go home)
119
Akyishigal (see page 109), Demon Lord of 
Roaches, with attendant roachlings
120
Baron Suvid (see page 106), Lord of Blades
121
Mistress Gossamer of the Mournful Gate, a 
banshee (see area 39)
122
Prince Loric Oakbound, a youthful high elf 
noble ward (hostage) of the Summer Court 
(also known as the Cloud Prince and Lord of 
Daydreams)
The Blood Royal (Status 25 and Higher)
123
His Serene Highness (“Durchlaucht”), Prince 
of the Blood Hander Svenk, Baron of the 
Lantern City of Corremel, Waldgraf of the 
Margreve Forest, the Black Prince of Balefire 
(see page 112)
124
Hidden Princess Vailessia Graystone, a shadow 
fey noble (cousin of the Black Prince), Lady of 
the Hounds (see area 40)
125
Her Celestial and Royal Majesty, Sarastra 
Aestruum, Queen of Night and Magic, Duchess 
of the Heavens, Countess of Thorn, Mistress of 
Air and Darkness, Lady of the Summer Palace, 
and Bride of Shadows (see page 120)
126
His Lunar and Royal Majesty, Ludomir 
Imbrium the XVI, the Moonlit King of the 
Shadow Fey, Lord of the Shadow Realm, 
Lord Protector of the Black Elves, Duke of 
the Elf Ironcrags, Baron of Bratislor, Earl of 
Zobeck, Master of the Winter Palace, and 
Count‑Palatine of Salzbach (see page 141)
Conditions in the Court
The courtiers, servants, and hangers-on of the court all 
have their codes of behavior and their own concerns; 
most of the time, they ignore strangers unless they find 
some advantage in not.
ALLIANCES, COURTESANS, AND DUELING
The characters will need to claw their way up the social 
ladder here; they might question courtesans and lovers 
for information, strong-arm servants to gain access to 
important NPCs, and generally find their own most 
successful road to make progress in meeting the court’s 
lords and ladies. There’s a limited supply of available fey 
lovers and allies, and there’s a price for keeping them 
happy, in gold, vitality, magic, memories, and so on (see 
courtesans on page 84, dueling on page 99, the Ravens 
faction on page 68, the Grey Ladies faction on page 71, 
the Lords of Light faction on page 76.
INVISIBLE SERVANTS 
Servants are present but not always visible in every 
room of the Royal Halls. They hide in the shadows of 
the room, motionless, until their presence is required. 
A successful DC 20 Wisdom (Perception) check reveals 
some sign of an invisible servant.
Any character who has a Status of 20 or higher can 
call up a servant by speaking and asking for one (this is 
not an action). The servants will fetch and carry, offer 
assistance, answer simple questions—though never 
about Intelligence (Religion), Intelligence (Arcana), or 
politics!—and generally make themselves useful to their 
betters. 
There is only one servant available for each small room, 
with proportionally more in larger rooms. The Small 
Courtyard (area 46) has five servants, and the Great Hall 
of the Shadow Court (area 62) at least a dozen.
ILLUMINATION AND ILLUSION
Illusions cloak every room of the courts, even after the 
Invisible Court illusions have faded. Some are friendly, 
some are perplexing. Choose from among the following 
if the party ventures into territory they should leave 
alone, or even when they visit familiar ground (like their 
own bedchambers).
GUARDS AND WARDS
The courts are reasonably well guarded, at least at 
every major hall and at the gates linking the three 
main sections of the courts. Many of these guards are 
monolith footmen; a few others are shadow fey of one 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 84 ---
83
Table 3–1: Twenty Dangerous and Luring Illusions for Fey Chambers
1
Chickens with dozens of zealously guarded nests and eggs. Characters might be overcome with the urge to 
guard these nests against foxes.
2
Gigantic spiders discussing the making of soup. Characters might see themselves liquefied into soup, waking up 
in their own chambers fatigued.
3
An open pit with no apparent bottom. Falling drops the visitor into the Well of Night (area 52) covered by roaches.
4
Her Majesty the Queen in full royal garb, accompanied by a variety of cavorting dryads, satyrs, and naked elves. 
She invites the characters to join her; those who do wake up hours later with their armor missing for a few days. 
Missing bits can be found at the smith’s (area 6).
5
Two young deer nibbling a grassy sward. Characters who enter are transported to a distant quarter of the forest.
6
Storm clouds and rain. Characters are drenched.
7
Gray and utter silence. All who enter are dusted with gray powder.
8
Scrolls of ancient lore, crumbling before the viewers’ eyes.
9
The tide is coming in. Opening the door releases an (illusory) wave of salt water.
10
A black-walled chamber of blood and howling souls; a group of goblins prepares a blood sacrifice to a demon lord.
11
A chamber of 100 mice in urgent consultation on legislation before the Murine Chamber, devoted to a 
bureaucratic apportionment of available resources. Quite hypnotic.
12
A small hidden palace-within-a-palace where the servants pretend to be nobles and the courtiers fetch and 
carry. Beheadings held at noon and sunset daily. 
13
Stairs to the upper level of the palace, which is really the palace’s rooftop. The illusion makes it seem that there 
are walls where none exist: The character must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or fall 30 feet. 
14
Stairs to a wine cellar, which is really the Goblin Court, where an intruder might be held for trespass.
15
A line of beech trees stretches into the distance on one side of a dusty trail. On the other, a long and placid stream 
or canal. Frogs croak and herons wander. Good fishing here, surely: if the character fails a DC 15 Wisdom saving 
throw, then the character remembers a fine day fishing but is missing from court for a day or week. 
16
An inferno of dwarves and derro toiling ceaselessly on some horrific contraptions of brass, steam, and iron. 
Rather like the Ironmonger’s Hall back in Zobeck, really.
17
A garden in full bloom. The flowers are soporific, and those who enter sleep for days.
18
A parade! Goblins strike drums, shadow fey throw rose petals, quicksteps zip along with flags and batons. Sound 
the trumpets, here come the unicorns!
19
A mountaintop shrine full of icy wind and with absolutely no exits. The area is extreme cold. Finding the exit 
requires a successful DC 18 Intelligence (Investigation) or Wisdom (Survival) check. A failed check can be 
repeated, but it takes 1 hour of searching for each retry, requiring Constitution saves from the cold.
20
An adult red shadow dragon’s lair. And a very, very unwelcoming dragon: Every character here must make a 
DC 20 Constitution or Dexterity saving throw of their choice. On a successful save, the character narrowly 
escapes the fire breath and returns to the courts in safety. On a failed save, the character awakens 1d6 hours later 
somewhere in the courts, covered in burns and soot, with one level of exhaustion.
stripe or another (if statistics are needed, use the rake 
and the cutthroat from Act I, Scene 1). The fey and 
the hulking brutes don’t fight much but, instead, use 
warding magic to keep characters out (DC 20 Will 
save; character is be-mazed and “loses” 1 day while 
wandering among illusions).
SNEAKING IN AS A SERVANT
It’s entirely possible to sneak into the courts disguised as 
a servant: doing this results in a −2 deduction to Status 
if infiltrating the palace over the walls or a −4 deduction 
if sneaking into a restricted wing. The disguised 
“servant” will be recognized by most of the fey, but the 
disguise is an accepted if disreputable way to visit the 
Royal Halls for lovers and desperate commoners, so 
they are usually ignored.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 85 ---
84
Table 3–2: Courtesans and Consorts
 Consort/Courtesan
Character 
Minimum Status
Successes 
Needed
Status 
Gained
Maintenance 
(GP )
XP
Hargos Enderran, the  
Flame-Cloaked Consort
10
4
+1
50
700
Lishekki Almandrine, the  
Silver-Chained Courtesan
11
4
+1
50
700
Ulara of the Seven Veils
13
6
+2
100
1,400
Ballandrine the Frost-Eyed
14
8
+3
200
2,100
Mora Moonwater the Rain-Cloaked 
15
8
+3
200
2,100
Songemesha the Raven-Haired
181
10
+5
400
2,800
Marek the Sapphire (M)
203
122
+8
1,000
3,500
Maraya the Sapphire (F)
223
122
+8
1,000
3,500
1 Will not speak to those with Status lower than 14
2 All ability check DCs for wooing are 2 points higher than normal
3 Will not speak to those with Status lower than 16
Servants and those disguised as servants are not 
allowed to carry weapons or arcane implements or to 
wear armor (Stealth DC 23 or Charisma [Deception] 
DC 26). For those breaking the rules, the guards are 
summoned and the trespassers quietly but firmly 
escorted to the Lower Halls and given to the Goblin 
Court for judgment (usually expressed as a number of 
days spent scrubbing pots and hauling water). 
Note that the roof and the windows are warded just 
as the Open Portal is (see page 55). It’s not possible to 
climb into the Halls through these routes without some 
ability in the Intelligence (Arcana) skill. Even then, the 
lantern dragonettes report trespassers, and within a few 
minutes the visitors will be escorted out, to their shame.
STATUS INVITATIONS
If the party negotiates well and gains Status in the 
courts, they might be invited to meet the Blind Seer, the 
Black Prince, or the Sapphire Courtesan, as shown in 
Table 3–3: Status Rewards.
Winning a Courtesan or  
Consort’s Favor
… A dread trembling o’erwhelms me, paler than I, than 
dried grass in Autumn, and in my madness, dead I seem 
almost.
—Sappho, “Hymn to Aphrodite”
A character who has a Status of 10 or higher can woo 
and win the favor of a courtesan or consort, as long 
as their status is greater or equal to the courtesan or 
consort. This costs 50 gp in grooming for the character, 
plus 10 gp times the courtesan’s or consort’s minimum 
Status (as shown in Table 3–2: Courtesans and 
Consorts). Once favor is won, the character gains the 
XP indicated as a one-time award; if favor is not won, 
the character suffers a −2 deduction to Status.
Winning and Wooing. Winning over a courtesan or 
consort is a skill challenge, of sorts, and the character 
involved must make the ability checks required (see 
Table 3–2: Courtesans and Consorts); a friend can help 
with only a single check, or else the friend might instead 
inadvertently win the courtesan or consort’s attention, 
not the wooing character. Attempts to help by friends 
are always allowed.
Courtesans and consorts can be wooed with a wide 
variety of skills and even won through dueling and 
other activities. Favor is not won if 3 failures are 
achieved before the required number of successes. This 
process can be lengthened, if desired, with no more than 
1 or 2 successes permitted to occur per encounter. This 
extends the time spent in the courts and mirrors the 
gradual development of the relationship.
Strength (Athletics) DC 15—The life of an adventurer 
is awash with danger and excitement, and a physical 
demonstration of prowess can impress. Such displays 
lose their charm quickly, however, and any further 
attempts after a successful Strength (Athletics) check 
are automatic failures. 
Dexterity (Acrobatics) DC 18—Feats of acrobatic daring: 
running over rooftops, climbing the Silver Tree to 
pluck its highest flower, and so on, can be impressive.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 86 ---
85
Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) DC 15, + 5/additional 
attempt—Gifts stolen from rivals are always sweet 
ones. However, gifts grow tiresome with time, 
especially if questions about provenance come up.
Intelligence (Arcana) DC 23—The courtesans and 
consorts are easily bored by occult esoterica, although 
a character might interest them with sufficiently 
bizarre, original, or practical advice. 
Intelligence (History) DC 25—The consorts and 
courtesans are easily bored by history, even more 
so than by arcana. Though it is possible to impress 
someone in this fashion, such an occurrence is rare.
Intelligence (Investigation) DC 20—All courtesans and 
consorts love gossip, the juicier the rumor, the better. 
A check total of 25 or higher grants advantage on the 
next check made to woo the courtesan or consort.
Intelligence (Nature) DC 10 + courtesan’s Status, + 1/
additional attempt—Flowers, greenery, feathers from 
rare birds, sweet berries, robin’s eggs, and distilled 
sap are all welcome gifts among the courtesans and 
consorts. However, the more sophisticated consorts 
find these things a little beneath them: for instance, 
merely ordinary flowers are not enough to sway the 
Sapphire Courtesan. The DC is increased by the Status 
of the courtesan or consort: for example, impressing 
Hargos (Status 10) in this way is a DC 20 check, while 
Maraya (Status 22) requires a DC 32 check. As with 
flattery, little gifts do eventually grow tiresome, so the 
DC also goes up on each attempt.
Intelligence (Religion) DC 22—The courtesans and 
consorts find most religion unimportant, since the 
fey’s goddess rules them, and thus, to them every 
other religion is a form of heresy or wasted effort. 
But sometimes a story about one divinity or a bit of 
dogma is especially amusing or shocking, satisfying 
their jaded sensibilities.
Table 3–3: Status Rewards
Status
Privilege Extended
11
May attend the Swan Festival as standing-room-only servants
11
Allowed to visit Revich the Blind Seer to ask for appointment (see page 74)
13
Invitation to meet Akyishigal, the Demon Lord of Roaches (see page 109)
15
Invitation from Revich the Blind Seer to dine (see page 75)
16
Invitation to enter the Royal Halls (see page 87)
16
Invitation to the Swan Festival to drink and dine (see page 88)
19
Invitation to go hunting with the Black Prince (see page 116)
20–22
Invitation to woo the Sapphire Courtesan (see page 84)
23
Invitation to capture the firebird for the queen through an intermediary (see page 118)
26
Audience with the Queen of Night and Magic (see page 120)
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 87 ---
86
12 Strange Tricks of the Courtiers
1
Twin Spiders. Two spies are lurking on the ceilings of the halls, using their spider-climbing abilities to learn 
about the characters. The two spies serve two different fey factions.
2
Spotlights and Darkness. The character with the highest Status is always well illuminated by a pair of lantern 
dragonettes (see page 47). The character with the lowest Status is always cloaked in shadows and gains 
concealment as a swift action.
3
Locked Room without Doors. This hall of six doors seems unconnected to any other part of the palace. 
Visitors sometimes hear a light laugh or running water. No matter what door they go through, they always 
come out one of the other doors in the room. Materials in the room look like clues for which doors to go 
through in what order: a tapestry, an enameled box, a carved wooden set of chessmen. The whole is an 
elaborate illusory trap, which ejects visitors after a few hours or with an Intelligence (Arcana) or Sleight of 
Hand check (DC 30) to puzzle out the clues.
4
Stairs Up. The characters enter a room with stairs on the ceiling. With the right password or ritual, they can 
reverse gravity here to visit a secret room, such as the gathering place of one of the factions or the site for an 
assignation with a high Status courtesan or consort.
5
The Doubles. If a character splits from the rest of the party, he or she returns and seems normal—but the 
others might notice that the character casts no shadow (passive Perception DC 30). Eventually, the other 
“real” character returns. Which is real?
6
Animal Servants. The party finds a room with humanoid servants, each with an animal head. These heads are 
illusions, but the servants are convinced they are real punishments for failing to obey shadow fey law. They 
weep beneath these illusory masks—and obey.
7
Living Furnishings. The furniture in this room—chairs, lounging couches, even a pendulum—are all people, 
goblins, or other servants.
8
Seconds and Doubles. If the characters challenge a fey much above their station, the fey lord or lady sends 
back a double to a duel as an insult to the characters.
9
Shadow Memory. There is a ritual that allows one to absorb the memories of the double. The fey consider this 
perfect for illicit assignations or crimes requiring a strong alibi.
10
Death Butterflies. A sphere of force rolls down the hall, filled with a mass of butterflies. If a character picks 
up the sphere or pokes at it, the force bubble evaporates and the death butterflies within are released to attack 
for 2d3 rounds, before scattering (see page 117 for stats).
11
The Starchild. An illusion of a star-elf descends from the heavens one night to ask the characters to do 
something that will make them appear truly, truly foolish: this might be spitting in the presence of the queen, 
challenging the Black Prince to a duel, and so on.
12
A Door Home. The characters open a door and step into Zobeck. They might come and go as they please, 
visiting familiar places and people, purchasing goods and so on. If they ask around, the fey chuckle and say the 
Shadow Road is only one way into and out of the Moonlit Court. At some point when the characters are resting 
at home after a particularly taxing encounter, they wake up in the fey court, with all they accomplished or 
gained in Zobeck gone and the shadow fey all laughing at them for falling for the illusion (−2 penalty to Status).
Individual Modifiers
The DCs given in this section for various ability checks 
should be considered baseline figures, not absolute 
values. A myriad of modifiers can come into play that 
increase or decrease any character’s chances of winning 
favor. For instance, a character with fey blood (an elf, 
half-elf, or gnome) might receive a minor bonus on 
certain checks but also take a greater penalty for a 
failed attempt (“You should know better.”). Conversely, 
a member of one of the uncouth races (such as dwarf 
or gearforged) might take a minor penalty on checks 
but receive a greater benefit for succeeding (“You 
can suppress your natural oafishness for the sake of 
impressing me?”).
Beyond those possibilities, you might award bonuses 
or penalties on certain checks because of a character’s 
class, class features, feats, or other characteristics. 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 88 ---
87
Wisdom (Insight) DC 15—Understanding what a consort 
wants is crucial. A successful Wisdom (Insight) check 
does not count as a success in the skill challenge, but 
grants advantage on all of that week’s wooing attempts 
by the character. A failed Wisdom (Insight) check does 
count as a failure in the skill challenge, as the character 
fatally misreads some wish or trait of the consort and 
commits a faux pas by revealing this lack of sensitivity.
Wisdom (Perception) DC 20—Just viewing something 
rarely impresses a courtesan or consort; after all, the 
whole point is that the thing is meant to be seen. 
Sometimes a character notes something of particular 
interest, however, such as a clever bit of sewing in 
their garments or the way a ring is inscribed with a 
motto. Keen eyes and sharp ears have their moments 
of usefulness.
Wisdom (Survival) DC 23—The courtesans and consorts 
are creatures enamored of civilized comfort and have 
little interest in outdoorsy concerns, so the bar for 
impressing one of them in this way is quite high.
Charisma (Deception) DC 18—Lies, braggadocio, and 
purest flattery are welcome. However, lies that fall flat 
to the ear of a consort or courtesan (indicated by a 
check that fails by 5 or more) are especially sour and 
count as 2 failures in the skill challenge. No one likes 
excessive ego in a suitor.
Charisma (Intimidation) DC 14—Of all the courtesans 
and consorts, only Lishekki the Silver-Chained can be 
wooed with Intimidation checks. Against any others, 
using this skill results in an automatic failure.
Charisma (Performance) DC 18—An evening of dancing, 
song, poetry, or some other method of creative 
expression can have lasting benefits. 
Charisma (Persuasion) DC 13, + 2/additional attempt—
Sweet words are the courtesans’ and consorts’ bread 
and butter, and they expect to hear them as well as 
speak them. However, too much of a good thing can 
soon become an annoyance. The DC increases by 2 for 
each attempt after the first.
Dueling—Winning a duel fought on behalf of a courtesan 
or consort counts as 2 successes in the skill challenge. 
This declaration of intent must be made as part of the 
challenge issued to an opposing duelist. Losing such a 
duel counts as a failure in the skill challenge, and the 
character also suffers the loss in Status that comes with 
losing the duel and possibly also losing the affection of 
the courtesan or consort.
Overall Success: If a character succeeds in the skill 
challenge, the courtesan or consort takes the character 
as a lover, and the character gains Status (as shown in 
Table 3–2: Courtesans and Consorts) as long as the 
character continues to provide gifts and attention (as 
reflected in the “Maintenance” column on the table) 
every month. Either party can break off the affair; 
the courtesan or consort typically does so only if the 
character is negligent or takes up with a rival.
Overall Failure: If a character gets a failure in the skill 
challenge, the courtesan or consort publicly or privately 
tells the character that she or he is not interested in 
further advances. The character takes a −2 deduction to 
Status as word gets around than the suit has been rejected.
Once a suit has failed, any further attempts by the 
character to woo the same consort or courtesan for at 
least 1 month are automatic failures (with an additional 
−2 deduction to Status for each one). Continued 
attempts to win over a consort or courtesan when the 
character’s advances have clearly been declined will 
result in a visit from a duelist champion.
Act III, Scene 1:  
Entering the Royal Halls
Minimum Status: 16
Once the most diplomatic or boldest member of the party 
has achieved a Status of 16 or higher (or the characters 
have all disguised themselves as servants and snuck into 
the Royal Halls), the characters might receive an audience 
with the lords and ladies of the Shadow Court. Or, at the 
very least, they might visit (in disguise) the wing of the 
palace that has thus far been closed to them.
This is a small occasion in the Status-obsessed courts. 
Read the following when the party first approaches the 
Royal Halls:
The lantern dragonettes perched at the top of the white 
marble stairs lift their heads; their tarnished silvery 
scales shake, and the orange light of the dragons shines 
out like a beacon, parting the darkness and revealing a 
small courtyard with a fountain, a white tower, and stairs 
leading up past more armored footmen. 
	 Once up the second stairs, there is a long hallway 
filled with lantern light and many doors. Laughter and 
music float down from the far end of the hall, and a few 
servants bustle to and fro.
To the character with the highest Status:
The footman in his silvery armor speaks to you in a 
pleasing, slightly echoing voice. “Ah, milord, much joy 
and welcome! You are invited by their Majesties to 
enter the Royal Halls. Please, the courtiers will surely be 
delighted to meet you! How shall we announce you?” 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 89 ---
88
If the character gives a title, there is a fanfare of 
invisible trumpets, the character’s name and title rings 
out—and that’s about it. A few servants come over, 
looking to ingratiate themselves.
Once they are inside, give the characters time to react, 
quiz a servant, and so on.
If they do enter the Great Hall, read the following: 
More than forty guests mingle in the Great Hall; 
servants move among them, preparing a feast. Most 
of the guests are fey or elves of some type, but there 
are a few humans and a single figure that appears to 
be a cross between a gigantic insect and a horned 
man dressed in red silks, and who is not a member of 
the court. Three demon-dogs roam the hall as well, 
slinking around under the tables.
Wisdom (Perception) DC 20—At least half a dozen 
archers stand on an upper balcony.
Intelligence (Investigation) DC 16—Illusions cloak many 
of the guests; at least six of them are not fey at all, 
but demons or devils of some kind. It’s hard to track 
them, but clearly, bound or conjured demon lords are 
serving in the queen’s retinue and devils are acting as 
her advisors.
Act III, Scene 2:  
The Courtesans’ Dance
Minimum Status: 11 (servant) or 16 (invited guest)
Many fey specialize in being beautiful, smart, 
charismatic, or insanely sexy. These courtesans and 
consorts are power players in their own right, as well as 
being prizes and tokens of Status among the fey. Nobles 
and ladies who can afford the chase woo these courtesans 
and consorts with magic and lavish gifts, and the 
courtesans and consorts bestow their favors only rarely. 
Their willingness to take a new noble as a lover is 
always a sign of Status and prestige. This winter, the 
consorts and courtesans are throwing a party called the 
Swan Festival, and characters who have Status of 11 or 
higher are able to attend as servants or bystanders—but 
they are not seated. Characters who have Status of 16 or 
higher will receive an invitation and are invited to dine.
Armor is not permitted at the dance, but weapons and 
implements certainly are (but are expected to remain 
sheathed unless there is good cause). Give the characters 
time to arrange whatever special garments, favors, and 
arrangements they require, such as attending with a 
favored fey, or wearing faction colors, or whatever else 
they dream up. The event is held in the Great Hall of the 
Shadow Fey (area 62) just after moonrise.
THE SEATING, SOUPS, AND SPOONS
The seating at the feast is done strictly by Status, and 
characters with lower Status are seated much farther 
from the royal presence. Characters with Status of 16 
or higher are close enough to make eye contact with 
the queen and her inner circle, and perhaps gain their 
attention for a moment. Conversely, characters of 
extremely low Status are treated as children or distant 
relatives, and seated in a separate hall entirely. 
If no character has Status higher than 15, none of 
the party are invited to the high table. Characters with 
Status of 12 to 15 are seated at lower tables or far from 
the head of the high table.
Status changes that occur during the feast can be 
tracked right away by the character. However, even 
the fey are not so demanding as to immediately reseat 
blundering, foolish mortals during a royal feast. The 
effects of falling or rising fortunes and increases or 
deductions in Status are taken note of when they occur, 
but these changes affect future interactions at the courts 
only after the feast ends.
For Characters with Status of 11 or Lower: 
Two servants bar your way at the entrance. “Please, 
come this way,” they say. “There’s a party in the guest 
hall for visitors; this ball is only for those invited.”
Crashing the party after the servants ask you to 
leave is a boneheaded move, and all heads turn to see 
who is making a fool of themselves. The characters 
immediately suffer at least a −4 deduction to Status. 
Those who follow the servants are taken to the Goblin 
Court for a much rowdier feast.
For Characters with Status of 12 to 15:
A beautiful shadow fey and a grinning goblin look at 
you and consult a list. “Hmm, yes, you may observe the 
festivities from the hunter’s hall, balcony, and adjoining 
chambers. The hall itself is full, I fear.”
Those who wish to do so can sit outside and watch from 
a distance; they are given water or mundane ale to drink 
for the queen’s toast but, otherwise not fed or waited on. 
Many of the junior keepers and a few low-Status visitors 
make up the majority of this “outside festival.”
Attempts to crash these seating arrangements are dealt 
with fairly brutally (keep it brief), and a character who 
simply sits down in the main hall without an invite 
suffers a −4 deduction to Status. Such a brute is ignored, 
served no food and offered no refreshments.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 90 ---
89
For Characters with Status of 16 or Higher: 
A beautiful shadow fey and a grinning goblin look at 
you and consult a list. “Ah, yes, follow this dragonette 
down the long hall, and bow when you enter. The 
feast is almost ready to begin.”
The dragonette leads them to a squire, who takes them 
to their seats—except for the highest-Status character.
For the Character with the Highest Status: 
You are led to the high table, above the salt, where the 
fey lords and ladies are seated. They look you up and 
down once; then they return to their conversations, 
ignoring you. A servant steps forward with a basin 
and a towel; the lady next to you seems to be eating a 
bouquet of flowers. Your friends are all seated farther 
down the table in a group. At the far end of the table 
sits the queen, surrounded by lantern dragonettes, 
sprites, and a cluster of servants.
Wisdom (Insight) DC 16—The fey lords seem to think 
you are purely a temporary distraction. They probably 
think you don’t even speak Elvish.
A character who succeeds on a DC 20 Charisma 
(Persuasion) check has engaged his or her neighbors in 
conversation and can attempt further checks (also DC 
20) using Intelligence (Investigation) to gather gossip or 
using Charisma (Persuasion) to ask a question and have 
it answered. At some point, of course, the fey’s sufferance 
for this visitor grows thin, and they turn away to discuss 
more important matters with other courtiers. Increase 
the DC by 5 after a number of successful checks equal 
to the character’s Charisma modifier, unless the topic of 
conversation is of particular interest to the fey.
THE FEAST BEGINS
Once everyone is seated, read:
After you take your seats, the dishes begin to arrive 
immediately and come in an unending stream, each 
announced by a herald or servant: first a bell soup, 
a snowflake soup, and a sparkling stew called goblin 
stew. Surely, there is no goblin in it. Or is there? Do 
you choose the stew, or one of the other soups?
Each character must make this decision. Those who 
eat the stew gain a +1 increase to Status; those who 
decline suffer a −1 deduction to Status for rudeness.
THE WINE AND THE TOAST
Those who ate the stew are offered wine; those who 
declined it are offered none:
As you finish the first course, the dishes float away, 
carried by invisible hands. Goblins and animal-headed 
servants step forward with pitchers of liquid, perhaps 
wine or water. The servants ask each diner, “Queen’s 
Wine, King’s Cordial, or Prince’s Ale?”
Ask each player whether his or her character will 
choose one of the three beverages or decline all three. 
Make a note to yourself of each decision. Allow 
characters a chance to make ability checks to see what 
they might discern.
Intelligence (Nature or poisoner’s kit) DC 20—The 
Queen’s Wine is liquid starlight, unfit for human 
consumption but safe for the fey to drink.
Wisdom (Perception) DC 15—The Queen’s Wine is inky 
black with flecks of something luminous, the King’s 
Cordial shimmers like moonlight, and the Prince’s Ale 
is pale green, like spring leaves. 
Wisdom (Insight) DC 17—The fey courtiers and 
visitors are asking mostly for the queen’s and prince’s 
beverages. Only the queen and a few senior nobles 
request the King’s Cordial.
Successfully using Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) or 
Charisma (Deception) to pretend to drink is remarkably 
difficult, given the number of servants, keen-eyed 
King’s Cordial 
Non-fey who drink the King’s Cordial might be in 
for a wild ride; fey suffer no ill effects beyond a mild 
intoxication, but others begin to hallucinate and 
might be overcome by paralysis.
King’s Lunar Cordial (Ingested). Drinking the 
Moonlit King’s cordial offers strange visions of celestial 
realms and leaves its imbibers weak-kneed and faint. 
A non‑fey creature that ingests this poison must 
succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw or take 
10 (3d6) poison damage and become poisoned. While 
poisoned in this way, the creature’s speed is reduced 
by 5 feet. The poisoned creature must repeat the 
saving throw every minute, taking 10 (3d6) poison 
damage on a failed save. A creature whose speed 
is reduced to 0 in this way falls prone and becomes 
incapacitated. While incapacitated, the creature can 
only rave madly in the grip of hallucinations. After 
three successful saves, the effect ends. 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 91 ---
90
courtiers, and others who are eager to observe the 
newcomers. Such efforts should be treated as skill 
contests against the +8 Perception and +7 Wisdom 
(Insight) modifiers of a nearby crowd of courtiers that 
are watching the characters at any given time.
Consequences
Those who decline all three drinks suffer a −2 deduction 
to Status for refusing to toast the Blood Royal.
Those who accept the Queen’s Wine and drink it gain 
a +2 increase to Status. Any drinker that is a fey, elf, 
half-elf, elfmarked, or gnome character immediately 
gains 2d10 temporary hit points; all others take 5 (1d10) 
radiant damage and gain one level of exhaustion. 
Those who accept the King’s Cordial and drink it 
gain no Status. Any drinker that is a fey, elf, half-elf, 
elfmarked, or gnome character suffers no ill effects; 
others are poisoned and suffer hallucinations until the 
effect wears off (see the “King’s Cordial” sidebar).
Those who accept the Prince’s Ale and drink it gain a 
+1 increase to Status—as well as the notice of the queen, 
who is always interested in those who signal alliance to 
her son in this way. This attention is not entirely a good 
thing, and might be a factor in the Queen’s Audience 
later (see page 120), since she has a sharp memory for 
these sorts of things. The ale has no other effect, aside 
from the ordinary.
THE QUEEN’S TOAST
The queen proposes the first toast of the night, taking 
special notice of her most impressive guests. 
“We greet our cousin the River King and his 
ambassadors, Lord Chelessfield and Lady Sorreminx. 
We regret that young Lord Flax could not join us. We 
greet the fiery Lord Maruuk and return the greetings 
of his masters, the archdukes. And we welcome our 
visitors from our ancient lands in the Lighted Realms 
as well, led by [name of character with highest Status]. 
To the Shadow Realm and all who rule it!”
Menu
A repast to celebrate the arrival of guests at the Winter Halls of Her Celestial and Royal Majesty, 
Sarastra Aestruum, Queen of Night and Magic, Duchess of the Heavens, Countess of Thorn, 
Mistress of Air and Darkness, Lady of the Summer Palace, and Bride of Shadows.
Interlude: Three Dances
Fire, Tears, and Veils
3rd Course: Birds of the Air
Raven’s Pie with archery
Stork legs and sparrow’s tongues
Beet foam, apple darts, and hatching eggs
Silver goblets of cloudberry liquor
4th Course: The Underworld
Cocooned badger a la drow with fish sauce
Memorial beef
Varied mushroom accompaniments
Root vegetables
Golden goblets of skull wine
Jewels and Speech
5th Course: The Swan Thieves
The Silver Swans and their Lunar Jewels 
Shaved goose eggs with Saffron Crust 
Flying Swan with Falling Crowns 
Spun glass goblets of gooseberry wine
Seating and Musical 
Divertissement
Seeds and Flower Bouquets
1st Course: Bells, Flakes,  
and Sparks
Choice of Bell Soup, Snowflake Soup, or 
Sparkling Goblin Stew
Arrival of the Royal Presence
All rise, proclamation
Toast
Choice of Queen’s Wine, King’s Cordial,  
or Prince’s Ale
2nd Course: Fire and Snort
Wild boar reduction over golden lamb 
stuffed with firebird eggs
Fresh lamb
Lamprey pie with galantine sauce of 
cinnamon and sugar
Stone goblets of fire wine
Dessert
Candied roses
Smoke puff pastry with gold center
Castle pastry with inhabitants  
and orchards
Chocolate egg
Spun glass goblets of iced cinnamon  
pear wine
The Royal Presence Retires
Dances and music until dawn 
Orange punch with children’s tears 
Ginger beer with blood shot
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 92 ---
91
Wisdom (Insight) DC 11—Refusing to drink when 
the toast is made is a serious breach of etiquette. 
Those who do not drink with the queen suffer a −6 
deduction to Status.
THE FEAST
The second and following courses arrive with fish, 
meats, and much stranger things. Read the following:
Servants bring in at least twenty dishes—so many it’s 
impossible to see them all at one time or hear them 
announced. A wild boar reduction over lamb stuffed 
with firebird eggs, and so forth. Your bowls and plates 
of blue glass are heaped high. Do you eat?
Eating confers no Status unless a character refused the 
stew earlier. If someone did decline but now eats the rest 
of the meal, they gain a +1 increase to Status (better late 
than never, for a net change of 0).
DETAILS OF THE MENU
The menu is meant to be a minefield, and the characters 
will try to figure out what is what. The primary checks 
available to them, all DC 19, are Wisdom (Insight), 
Intelligence (Nature), and Wisdom (Perception)—and 
possibly even Intelligence (Arcana) or Intelligence 
(Religion)—to find out a little about each dish. Easier 
is a DC 14 Charisma (Persuasion) check to ask one’s 
neighbors—though the fey might lie just to amuse 
themselves. Much of the cutlery and plates, as well 
as cups and glasses, are edible: drinking vessels of 
spun sugar, plates made of various sliced breads, and 
shadow‑stuff for cutlery.
Fresh Lamb. The “fresh lamb” is cut from a live animal, 
of course.
Raven’s Pie. Consuming the “pie with archery” involves 
shooting down one’s supper when the pie is opened. 
Doing so requires a successful attack against AC 14 
using a bow and a single arrow, which are provided (and 
retrieved after the course). Success earns a +1 increase 
to Status, a very tasty bird, and some applause from 
neighboring diners. A critical hit indicates two birds are 
struck and provides an additional +1 increase to Status.
Drow Cuisine. The “badger a la drow” is a spun silk 
cocoon around a jellied badger liquefied by spider venom 
(and then heated to neutralize the venom). Anyone 
who eats it must make a DC 16 Constitution saving 
throw against poison, since it tastes vile and the badger’s 
skeleton hasn’t entirely dissolved yet. On a failed save, 
the eater is unable to keep the food down, and the 
Romance and Lust among the Fey 
The fey are casual lovers: easy come, easy go, not 
too many broken hearts. Perhaps their long lives 
make them less passionate—or at least less inclined 
to grieve over a “lost love”— but for whatever 
reason, the characters are a novelty at the court and 
nothing more. That could change if a character wants 
to pursue a romantic relationship, or if you want to 
present the characters with the opportunity to take 
the game in this direction.
To get the ball rolling, describe one or two of 
the courtesans and see whether any of the players 
express an interest. If not, it’s not something that can 
be forced. If a character is interested, avoid running 
a romance as a series of ability checks (you might do 
so covertly, but never make it clear that successes 
and failures are involved). Smooth-talkers might get 
shot down, but they should at least be having fun—
and remember that any attempt at romance might 
be one long look away from causing a duel, if the 
characters hit on the wrong courtesan in front of the 
wrong noble. Even a failed romance can lead to an 
entertaining adventure.
In general, this part of the play experience 
isn’t about long-term relationships; it’s more like 
Dangerous Liaisons with each side maneuvering 
for advantage. For more information on running a 
successful romantic subplot in a high-fantasy game, 
see the “Character Love Interests” chapter in Kobold 
Guide to Gamemastering.
resulting upheaval brings a −1 deduction to Status. Drow 
need not make the saving throw and can eat the dish 
normally, but they gain no increase to Status for doing so.
Memorial Beef. This maggot-ridden food for the dead is 
rotting under an illusion. Once it is requested, it must be 
eaten, because failing to eat and thereby honor the dead 
is a grave insult (−3 deduction to Status). This dish is 
generally avoided by the members of the court, because 
those who eat it must succeed on a DC 19 Constitution 
saving throw to eat it without gagging or vomiting 
(taking a −2 deduction to Status on a failed save, for 
insulting the shades of the departed).
Skull Wine. This beverage is made from fermented 
brains. It is best avoided. If it is drunk, this poison induces 
visions of death while chilling the blood and slowing the 
heart. A drinker must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution 
saving throw or take 5 (1d10) poison damage and become 
poisoned. The saving throw is repeated at the end of every 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 93 ---
92
minute, and the drinker takes an extra 5 (1d10) poison 
damage on a failed save. The effect ends after the drinker 
has made two successful saving throws. 
Jewels and Speech. The jewels might be illusions 
or not, but either way, attempting to steal them is a 
bad idea, resulting in an immediate −2 deduction to 
Status. The queen displays her power by conjuring 
the jewels together into a necklace and then asks Lord 
Chelessfield, Ambassador Maruuk, and the character 
with the highest Status to say a few courteous words 
to the assemblage. This event is a contest involving 
Charisma (Persuasion) checks (Chelessfield’s modifier 
is +8, Maruuk’s is +6). The winner gets the necklace 
and gains a +4 increase to Status. The second-place 
finisher loses or gains nothing. The third-place finisher 
takes a −3 deduction to Status for a dull, insufficiently 
flattering, or otherwise unworthy speech.
Fire Wine. This is a vile, burning liquid that churns the 
guts. A drinker must succeed on a DC 13 Constitution 
saving throw, or else leave the table abruptly to relieve 
themselves. This outcome entails no loss of Status.
Swans and Crowns. The swans are enchanted to appear 
alive, fully feathered, and singing while they are being 
carved. The flying swans drop tiny crowns down upon 
the diners, who can earn the queen’s current favor (a 
+1 increase to Status) by catching the crowns on their 
heads without using their hands. A character who moves 
quickly can catch a crown by succeeding on a DC 17 
Dexterity (Acrobatics) check.
Smoke Puff Pastry. The “gold center” is molten gold, 
which burns the tongue of anyone who tries to eat 
it (the pastries are meant as offerings to the 
departed, or are cooled down and used 
for their monetary value). Eating one 
means the diner has a burned tongue 
for the rest of the feast, and cannot 
speak but must communicate in 
gestures and facial expressions (using 
DC 14 Charisma [Deception] checks to 
convey simple meaning). 
Castle Pastry. The castle is indeed full of tiny 
inhabitants who scream and flee as the diner eats, 
and the “orchards” are tasty fruit morsels.
Chocolate Egg. The chocolate-covered egg has a boiled 
duckling inside. Those who are put off by this get an odd 
look: “What did you expect to find inside an egg?”
TWO DANCES AND THE THIRD 
The dances begin as soon as the wine comes out. 
Being chosen to dance is a mark of favor among the 
courtesans and consorts; those who are not chosen to 
dance at three feasts in a row are clearly in disfavor, so 
they compete behind the scenes between feasts to gain 
an invitation to dance at the next one.
Read the following:
The hall grows silent except for the roar of the 
fireplace, and then a male elf steps out of the 
fireplace wreathed in flame. The ladies of the court 
applaud and shout, “Hargos, Hargos!” as he dances, 
leaping among the tables and leaving puffs of purple 
smoke every time he lands. The dance ends with a 
final puff of smoke as he stands beside one of the 
ladies‑in‑waiting, and then he’s gone.
This dancer is Hargos Enderran, 
the Flame-Cloaked Consort, 
an elf who always wears an 
illusion of a cloak 
of fire over his 
bare, muscled 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 94 ---
93
chest. His hearty laugh is often heard in the Hall of 
Changelings (area 24) and the Small Courtyard (area 
46). As a junior consort, he is not often allowed to 
visit the Royal Halls, and he is making the most of 
this opportunity, flattering and paying homage to the 
greatest of the shadow fey ladies.
Most of the lords view Hargos with deep suspicion, 
although his behavior is always in keeping with the 
shadow fey standards of decorum. Two brownie 
servants attend to him after the dance. He shows off in 
front of any female character, although he leaves it to the 
character to show interest before further pursuing them.
Read the following:
Music plays quietly for a while, then steadily builds, 
and a second dancer appears in a cloud of mist, 
bringing a quick shower of raindrops that soaks the 
lower table. The dancer is Mora Moonwater the Rain-
Cloaked, a stunning shadow fey woman wearing a 
cloak of liquid water. The cloak swirls and disappears 
into fog, and she dances in a watery garment of 
blue silk meshed with pearls, solid raindrops, and 
shimmering mithral scales. She moves as smoothly as 
a stream, her hips swaying like a tide, and her dance 
seems to be directed at every man in the room. 
	 When the music stops, one of the elf visitors bows 
to her and presents a pink lily to her. She smiles, but 
takes her seat elsewhere.
Wisdom (Insight) DC 17—This courtesan seems eager to 
make an impression, but she’s also quite sad.
Intelligence (Investigation) DC 15—Mora is one of the less 
notorious courtesans and has recently moved up from 
the junior courtesan’s post. Rumor has it she is the new 
lover of the Black Prince or perhaps of Imbemerethion, 
the new Captain of the Guard (or both).
Like Hargos, Mora shows off in front of the male 
characters, but she leaves it to them to show interest 
with a gift, toast, or other sign before pursuing things 
any farther (see “Winning a Courtesan’s or Consort’s 
Favor,” page 84).
THE THIRD DANCER
The third courtesan who might dance is Ulara of the 
Seven Veils, but she seems disinclined to show herself. 
Sometime after Mora’s dance ends, a character can 
overhear muttering about the lack of a third dancer 
with a successful DC 14 Wisdom (Perception) check, 
or can learn about it firsthand with a successful DC 15 
Charisma (Persuasion) check. 
If the highest-Status character has Status of 18 or 
higher, the Black Prince or another antagonist might 
ask the party to go fetch her. If they do go to room 54, 
convince her to talk, and persuade her to return to the 
feast with a DC 14 Charisma (Persuasion) check, that 
character gains a +1 increase to Status; continue with 
the Fire Dancer: Ulara of the Seven Veils section below. 
Failure to bring her back is a failure to obey the prince 
and brings a −2 deduction to Status. If the characters do 
not go to fetch Ulara, she is missing the next day—a fate 
that happens to courtesans rather often when they fall 
from favor.
None of the fey want to talk about it, and all the 
servants will say if pressed strongly enough (a successful 
DC 14 Charisma [Intimidation] check) is that “She’s gone 
to the labyrinth, or else to visit her mother in Corremel.”
FIRE DANCER: ULARA OF THE SEVEN VEILS 
The dance of Ulara of the Seven Veils is a magical one, 
a form of pyrohypnosis that uses flames and movement 
to dominate its viewers. The fey are accustomed to this 
form of trickery, but the characters might not be. 
A brazier ignites in the center of the hall—the flames 
roar, and smoke fills the air. A shadow fey maiden 
dressed in gray veils of smoke dances into the hall, 
cinders falling from her black hair, her golden eyes 
shining. Her bare feet scatter the coals of the brazier, 
and the smoke slowly starts to fade—her breasts and 
hips shake and push waves of rippling heat outward as 
the courtiers ring their glass goblets, shouting “Ulara, 
Ulara!”
The light of the brazier starts to pulse like a heartbeat, 
and the smoke veils the eyes of some. 
Intelligence (Arcana) DC 13—The Black Prince seems 
to shout the loudest. And the eyes of the ambassador 
Lord Maruuk devour the dancer. 
Intelligence (Arcana) DC 18—The brazier’s light is part 
of some fire spell or charm.
Unless the characters pointedly do not watch or some 
of them are not sitting with their friends in the Great 
Hall, require each of the characters who views Ulara to 
make saving throws against the following effects.
Dance of Fiery Lust. Every creature that starts its turn 
within 30 feet of Ulara’s dance and can see the courtesan 
must succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw or 
become utterly charmed by her glamour for 10 minutes, 
and treat her as a dear friend or the object of a massive 
crush. You should encourage the player to decide what 
form this behavior takes: clapping madly, stomping one’s 
feet, shouting encouragement, and generally carrying on 
would be appropriate.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 95 ---
94
COURTLY COMMENTS AND CUTTING REMARKS 
The fey can be insufferably arrogant bastards and cruel, bitchy gossips. You can use the bits of dialogue below to 
get across this attitude, and invent a few other slights and put-downs of your own that you can use during chatty 
scenes when characters interact closely with denizens of the court.
	
Note that some of the more snobbish shadow fey do not address mortal characters directly, but instead address 
their shadows. The flesh they consider uncouth, for those not born in the Shadow Realm.
Table 3–4: Snobbish Courtier Comments 
Did you hear something? Noisome bother. Just anyone seems to get in these days.
Budgy, I see animals. Their lips are moving, almost like speech. Will her Majesty have them defanged?
You there, fetch me more wine! (If spoken repeatedly to the lowest-Status character, it might motivate them to 
earn Status. Or to smash something.)
Your friend appears to be talking. You should deal with that. (A courtly warning from a noble to the party leader.)
[To a servant, while ignoring the characters.] Was there a breeze ruffling the curtains? Tend to the windows.
You wait here.
As I was saying . . .
[Stonewalling.] I understand.
These annoying beasts are only good for lighting. Wish we still had a Royal Rat Catcher.
 Courtesans
By a melancholy or often drunk courtesan: There are darker things than shadow in this place.
You do not seem to bear anything upon or below your belt sufficient to accomplish any task I would set you . . .
What pretty eyes you have—a shame they do not see better.
 Servants
Goblin: Phew. Smells like the Light in here.
Butler: [An eyebrow raises, turns, and wags itself like a finger at the characters.] Shhh.
Servant: [A tip about its master.] Some elves love music, women, the skill of the blade, but I’ve never seen any elf 
love anything as much as Dae Tyrnin loves his suits.
Goblin proverb: Better a rat in the pot than a hog at the trap.
Goblin proverb: Better copper today than silver tomorrow.
 Duelists
So many men have fallen to my blade . . . and so many women to my bed.
There is a place you can cut a mortal that will paralyze it, leaving it to watch its own blood pour out like the last 
drops of wine. I hope to show it to you sometime.
Draw steel, and I swear I will gut you where you stand.
My sword’s enchantments are older than your mewling language. Prepare to face true power.
Make your words count—they may be your last!
Whoreson, impudent, emboss’d rascal! Have at thee!
Her Majesty’s Mercy! (Exclamation and joke.)
 Hunter
What has become of us brothers? We still allow the bird of flame to mock our hunts and now . . . now we must 
accept these lumbering cows in our keep? (Looking at the characters.)
As I was saying, the hunting is very poor. Some new game is needed desperately. (Glancing at character.)
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 96 ---
95
Kiss of Fiery Lust. Ulara kisses a charmed or willing 
target. The creature must succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom 
saving throw or become charmed by her for 24 hours. 
Ulara can cast suggestion (requiring no components) 
on a creature charmed in this way. Typical requests 
include going to fetch things from the kitchen, carrying 
messages to her various friends and allies, or even 
insulting her enemies (potentially inciting a duel or cruel 
gossip). In some cases, if she is bored with a charmed 
character, she simply sends them out of the courts and 
into the damp woods, naked but for a thin and ragged 
cloak. “Wearing Ulara’s cloak” is a bit of an inside joke 
among the fey, at the expense of visitors.
If Ulara succeeds in charming a character or two 
right away, she continues dancing while a charmed 
character makes additional saving throws each round. 
In the third round (when a character with 3 levels of 
exhaustion has disadvantage on saving throws), she uses 
her Kiss of Fiery Lust on a charmed character, securing 
the character’s obedience and bringing a −1 deduction 
to the character’s Status. The character in question has 
not won the courtesan—quite the contrary, she is likely 
to take all those she entraps that evening back to her 
chambers for her own amusement.
If none of the characters succumb to the kiss, the 
victim is likely the young Raven leader Brightspur. 
If any of the characters are members of that faction, 
Brightspur approaches them in the morning asking for 
their help as his seconds in a duel. He intends to recover 
his lost Status by challenging Ulara’s champion to a duel 
to show his devotion to her. This need not be a standard 
duel; to make his point, he might even call for a cliffside 
duel (see page 99), expecting to be talked out of it or to 
have the challenge declined.
Development. Although Ulara wins some followers 
through magic and cruelty, a character can turn this 
encounter to his or her advantage. Returning to Ulara 
and attempting to woo her later on is much more likely to 
succeed for a previously charmed character; the character 
gains an automatic success in the endeavor. Even if the 
character fails in the attempt, the fey appreciate this 
courageous behavior, and no Status is lost.
COURTESANS WHO DO NOT DANCE 
Two other courtesans attend with their admirers, 
followers, and lovers: Songemesha the Raven-Haired 
(Status 18; she will not speak to characters with Status 
lower than 14) and Maraya Laccrystae, the Sapphire 
(Status 23; she will not speak to characters with Status 
lower than 18). Lishekki and Ballandrine both do not 
attend, and rumors swirl that they somehow insulted 
Baron Suvid or one of the elder fey recently.
Songemesha and Maraya feast, joke, and enjoy the 
dances, but they do not take part in the festivities 
beyond keeping their own coteries amused and choosing 
one of their retinue to walk them back to their chambers. 
Unless a character intervenes and succeeds in courting 
one of them (see page 84), these two courtesans leave 
with their primary admirers. In the case of Songemesha, 
this is Lord Chelessfield, the elf. For Maraya, this is Lord 
Maruuk, the diabolic ambassador.
DANGEROUS WOMEN
Many of the women at the Swan Festival are dangerous. 
They include the succubus/incubus Maraya, who dotes 
on the ambassador of Hell (and who is all too willing 
to prey on mortal lusts); the courtesans, who keep 
some psoglav demons nearby to send after characters 
who stray from protocol; a noblewoman who asks the 
characters to do just one little favor (gathering some 
hairs from the prince’s brush or comb while he attends 
the ball); and an equally dangerous noblewoman who 
seeks a tryst in the Moon-Viewing Tower (area 44). 
This last individual seeks a character willing to meet 
her alone at the forbidden Moon-Viewing Tower; 
if a character agrees (and the characters defeat the 
deathwisps there), a goblin servant appears bringing the 
noblewoman’s regrets, and the characters are instead 
ambushed at the tower by Akyishigal, the lesser demon 
lord who is striving to pick off good-aligned members 
of the court. The demon had sought to ambush the Lady 
Jalennis, Lady of the Pale Gardens, but she is a member 
of the Lords of Light and was warned of the danger. 
Thus, the characters got caught in the middle of a failed 
ambush, and after the fact, Lady Jalennis feels she owes 
them at least an explanation, and perhaps a favor. If they 
seek her out after the Swan Festival, she helps them with 
a bit of lore or gossip, or heals an injured party member.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 97 ---
96
CLOSING THE FEAST AND CLEANING UP
Near the end of the festivities, Akyishigal and its 
minions swarm the feast to bring it to a close. With 
roaches suddenly everywhere, the feast ends in chaos as 
courtiers flee in all directions:
A round of dancing has just gotten under way 
when one of the servants lets out a shriek. A dozen 
roaches are scampering up the goblin’s legs, and he 
is trying to shake them off. Then, in a flash, roaches 
are everywhere, coating the food, floating in the wine 
goblets, and crunching underfoot.  
	 A clacking, hissing voice says, “How is it that no 
one invited your fourth guest and the King’s Favorite, 
Akyishigal? How is it that I was spurned? Now my 
followers shall have their feast!”  
	 Everyone starts running for the exits. The party’s over.
The following day is a period of rest and recovery 
throughout the courts. Almost none of the fey are 
interested in receiving visitors, and most are calling 
on their servants to bring them chilled wines, simple 
squash soups, and the like. Hard-charging characters 
might find this a good occasion for a healthy rest (and 
they find that studying or praying for spells is effective 
this day). Anyone who makes too much noise might be 
the target of harsh words or even an invitation to a duel.
Act III, Scene 3: Winning the 
Sapphire Courtesan Maraya
The most beautiful of the courtesans of the Shadow 
Court is the blue-haired Maraya, better known as the 
Sapphire Courtesan. The various princes, knights, and 
duelists all vie with one another for her favor and her 
kisses, and generally one or more of them are always 
in her company. If the characters defeat her current 
paramour in a duel, however, she transfers her affections 
to the new (and, in her eyes, more powerful) member of 
the court. Her fickleness seems not to bother most who 
pursue her.
Winning her favor is quite difficult (see “Winning 
a Courtesan’s or Consort’s Favor,” page 84), and once 
she is won, things might only get worse. Maraya is a 
demanding courtesan, dictating what days each of her 
suitors may visit and becoming peevish if they fail to 
show up with gifts and flattery. If someone does show up 
on time and with gifts on their first visit, Maraya grants 
a token of her esteem—a small bauble and her Profane 
Gift (see her stat block), which the character retains 
until Maraya rescinds her favor.
Treasure
As a gift from the Sapphire Courtesan, a character 
might receive a choker of eloquence. This item is a magic 
necklace of uncommon rarity that requires attunement, 
and raises the wearer’s Charisma to 19 it’s not already 
higher than that.
COMBAT WITH THE SAPPHIRE COURTESAN
Receiving Maraya’s favor is a bit of a poison pill; when a 
character wins her over and the scene might normally 
fade to black, you have the option of starting a rather 
unexpected combat. 
Important Note. This is an optional scene that you 
should discuss with the player before starting the 
session. If the player is not comfortable with his or 
her character fighting tangled in the sheets with an 
impossibly sexy fey creature, drop it and move on. If the 
player seems comfortable with this sort of scene, run it. 
After judging a new lover’s Status and suitability, 
Maraya might attack, choosing a moment when her 
paramour is most vulnerable (unarmored and without 
a weapon immediately to hand), gaining surprise and 
attacking with her life-draining kiss. Once that succeeds, 
she charms her new companion, causing the poor soul 
to follow her like a puppy until it can shake off her 
influence; the character takes a −8 deduction to Status 
for falling prey to her (which is offset if the character 
later wins her favor or defeats her in combat). 
If the victim resists her charm, normal combat ensues. 
Maraya won’t give chase out of her chamber, but she 
might block the way. A character who escapes takes only 
a −2 deduction to Status (instead of −8), but also loses 
a magic item (player’s choice) or other item of extreme 
value that was left behind. 
If the Sapphire Courtesan is slain, the entire court 
is rather bitter about it; she was well liked despite her 
arrogance and abusive ways, and the character who 
struck the fatal blow takes a −4 deduction to Status. 
The diabolic ambassador, Lord Maruuk, will take it 
very poorly if Maraya is assaulted by the characters and 
lodges a complaint with the prince and the queen if 
she is wounded or killed. The ambassador then makes 
sure that the characters must fight a duel at the first 
opportunity, likely with Baron Suvid.
Of course, even while she is alive, Maraya is perfectly 
willing to send Baron Suvid as a challenger on her 
behalf if a suitor fails to appear when required. In short, 
she’s in a position of power and takes advantage of it; 
if Suvid fails to win a duel against one of her former 
lovers, she begins a duel of gossip to destroy the foe’s 
reputation through whispers.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 98 ---
97
Maraya/Marek, Ancient Succubus/Incubus
Medium fiend (shapechanger), chaotic evil
Armor Class 15 (natural armor)
Hit Points 110 (17d8 + 34)
Speed 30 ft., fly 60 ft. 
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
10 (+0)	 22 (+5)	
15 (+2)	
15 (+2)	
12 (+1)	 22 (+6)
Skills Deception +12, Insight +7, Perception +7, 
Persuasion +12, Stealth +8
Damage Resistances cold, fire, lightning, poison; 
bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing from nonmagical 
attacks
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 17
Languages Abyssal, Common, Elvish, Infernal, Umbral, 
telepathy 60 ft. 
Challenge 7 (2,900 XP)
Telepathic Bond. Maraya ignores the range restriction 
on her telepathy when communicating with a creature 
she has charmed, or one that has received her Profane 
Gift. The two don’t even need to be on the same plane 
of existence.
Shapechanger. Maraya can use her action to polymorph 
into a Small or Medium humanoid, or back into her 
true form. Without wings, she loses her flying speed. 
Other than her size and speed, her statistics are the 
same in each form. Any equipment she is wearing or 
carrying isn’t transformed. Maraya reverts to her true 
form if she dies.
ACTIONS
Multiattack. Maraya makes two claw attacks.
Claw (Fiend Form Only). Melee Weapon Attack: +8 
to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d6 + 5) slashing 
damage plus 14 (4d6) psychic damage.
Charm. One humanoid Maraya can see within 30 feet 
of her must succeed on a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw 
or be magically charmed for 1 day. The charmed target 
obeys Maraya’s verbal or telepathic commands. If the 
target suffers any harm or receives a suicidal command, 
it can repeat the saving throw, ending the effect on 
a success. If the target successfully saves against the 
effect, or if the effect on it ends, the target is immune 
to Maraya’s Charm for the next 24 hours. Maraya can 
have only one target charmed at a time. If she charms 
another, the effect on the previous target ends. 
Draining Kiss. Maraya kisses a creature charmed by 
her or a willing creature. The target must make a DC 
17 Constitution saving throw against this magic, taking 
32 (5d10 + 5) psychic damage on a failed save, or half 
as much damage on a successful one. The target’s hit 
point maximum is reduced by an amount equal to the 
Optional: Duels of Words and Slander 
Blades and spells aren’t the only weapons drawn in 
Shadow Court duels—words can cut into one’s Status 
even more deeply than tangible wounds. A duel of 
words and slander is similar in form to a standard 
duel (see page 99), in which three passes are made 
by each of the duelists, who select a particular form 
of social “attack” as their weapon each time. The 
objective in a duel of words is not to gain Status for 
oneself, but to erode a rival’s standing. 
Unlike with a normal duel, no formal challenge 
need take place, and the combatants needn’t 
even be in one another’s presence! Often the first 
indication someone gets that one is engaged in a 
duel of words are sidelong glances and half-hidden 
snickering from those nearby.
To resolve these duels, ability checks can be used 
in contests in a form of riddle game or match of wits. 
You’ll want to make note of various passive scores 
beforehand, which set the DC of various approaches 
in a duel of words and slander. The common forms of 
“combat” are listed below.
Threats and Extortion: Attacker’s Charisma 
(Intimidation) check contested by defender’s 
Charisma check.
Protocol and Toadying: Attacker’s Charisma 
(Persuasion) check contested by defender’s Wisdom 
check.
Gossip and Slander: Attacker’s Charisma (Deception) 
or Charisma (Persuasion) check contested by 
defender’s Charisma (Deception) or Charisma 
(Persuasion) check.
Verbal Mockery and Insults: Attacker’s Charisma 
(Deception) check contested by defender’s Charisma 
(Deception) check.
Theft and Trickery: Attacker’s Dexterity (Sleight of 
Hand) check contested by defender’s Wisdom check.
Physical Mockery: Attacker’s Dexterity (Acrobatics) 
check contested by defender’s Charisma check.
Note: the simultaneous attacks in this kind of duel 
can take different forms; one party might make 
threats against the other, and the other might 
respond with a slanderous attack. A roll of 1 or a 
check that fails by 5 or more allows the opponent an 
unanswered follow-up attack.
The loser in any of these contests takes a −1 penalty 
to Status, or a −2 penalty if the roll on the attacker’s 
check was a 20.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 99 ---
98
damage taken. This reduction lasts until the target 
finishes a long rest. The target dies if this effect reduces 
its hit point maximum to 0. 
Etherealness. Maraya magically enters the Ethereal Plane 
from the Material Plane, or vice versa.
Profane Gift (1/Day). Maraya grants a profane gift to 
a willing humanoid she touches. The target increases 
one ability score of its choice by 2, or two different 
ability scores by 1 each. A single creature can have 
no more than one profane gift at a time. A profane 
gift is removed by a dispel evil and good spell or more 
powerful magic. Maraya can remove one of her gifts 
as a bonus action, and doing so causes the target’s 
Charisma score to be reduced by 2d6 until it finishes a 
long rest. If this reduces the target’s Charisma to 0, the 
target falls unconscious until it regains at least 1 point 
of Charisma. 
Development. Those who woo and win Maraya are in for 
a world of hurt; her lovers always disappear for a week 
or two, then are generally thrown back into the courts 
fatigued, exhausted, without a stitch of clothing—and 
with their hit point maximums reduced to half normal. 
The fey know about this behavior and are not put off 
by it, such that it takes a successful DC 17 Intelligence 
(Investigation) check for a character to find out what 
has happened when their friend disappears. If the party 
decides to mount a rescue operation rather than wait for 
the return of their companion, Maraya does not oppose 
them directly—but the characters find their friend 
besotted, enchanted, and willing to defend the Sapphire 
Courtesan to the death. If they subdue the victim, 
Maraya flees her chambers and spends a few days hiding 
in the form of a goblin or a shadow fey, plotting some 
sort of revenge. 
If the characters wait, their friend does return after 
2d6 + 2 days—naked (without clothes or armor), 
shaved, and otherwise a mess. The strange thing is that, 
even in their naked and embarrassed state, most of her 
lovers still want to win her back.
Treasure
Beyond the profane gifts Maraya gives out, if she is 
defeated in combat and her rooms are searched with a 
successful DC 16 Wisdom (Perception) check, the party 
finds locked coffers that hold jewelry and gemstones. 
There are six pieces of gold jewelry, two necklaces, two 
bracelets, and two rings, each worth 3,000 gp and set 
with sapphires.
Act III, Scene 4: Dueling Season
Dueling season is a special time in the courts. It can 
occur whenever the reigning monarch decrees it to 
be so. Typically, it is a period of 1–4 weeks during 
which dueling is permitted as a means of improving 
one’s Status. When the characters experience their first 
dueling season, they will discover that it’s impossible to 
get the kind of rest that’s needed to recover one’s spells. 
Also, any magic items they possess that normally regain 
uses every day do not recharge in this way until after the 
season. Both of these measures are imposed to prevent 
would-be duelists from taking unfair advantage by 
unleashing a spell or a magical effect during the combat.
STATUS FROM DUELING
The fey place great importance on dueling properly, 
meaning that one must challenge the correct sort of foe, 
the challenge must be duly accepted, and the duel must 
be fought with proper decorum and ceremony. Table 
3–2 provides deductions and increases to Status that 
apply after a character takes part in a duel, depending 
on the conditions under which the duel took place and 
what its outcome was.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 100 ---
99
Table 3–2: Status Changes from Duels
Status Event/Outcome
−8
Dueling the Black Prince and losing
−6
Caught cheating in a duel
−5
Caught dueling outside dueling season
−4
Declining a challenge from a fey whose Status 
differs from yours by 5 or less
−3
Challenging a fey whose Status differs from 
yours by 6 or more
−2
Attacking a courtier (a fey with Status of 11 or 
higher) without issuing a challenge to duel
−1
Losing a duel (whether in dueling season or 
not)
+0
Declining a challenge from a fey whose Status 
differs from yours by 6 or more
+0
A duel that results in a tie
+1
Issuing a proper challenge that is declined
+1
Winning a duel (whether in dueling season or 
not)
+2
Issuing or accepting a challenge outside 
dueling season
+6
Winning a duel outside dueling season
+7
Accepting and winning a cliffside duel
+8
Dueling the Black Prince and winning
+9
Dueling Baron Suvid and winning
The Status changes from dueling are not cumulative; 
only the greatest positive modifier and the greatest 
negative modifier from any duel apply when the 
outcome of the duel has been determined.
DUELING RULES
Duels can be fought with royal sanction during 
dueling season, but such a request is rarely granted to 
commoners or lesser fey (for whom dueling remains 
illegal). These challenges are commonly fought either 
on the dueling ground (area 2) for duelists of Status 15 
or lower, or in the Great Hall of the Shadow Court (area 
62) or on the Bridge of Night (area 26) whenever either 
individual has a Status of 20 or higher. A bribe of goods 
or gold equal to 10 gp for every rank of Status convinces 
the disreputable groundskeeper Whitemist to allow the 
illegal use of the dueling ground.
Outside Dueling Season. Challenging someone 
outside dueling season is possible but risky. These 
duels are fought outside the palace, either in a forest 
clearing at dawn (ideally far from prying eyes) or along 
the cliffside path leading up to the Western Gate (see 
“Cliffside Duels” below). A duelist caught in the act 
is taken before the king or queen to receive a royal 
reprimand, which invariably involves the surrender of 
the offender’s sword. The king or queen then shatters the 
sword and gives the duelist a wooden sword instead as a 
mark of shame.
Cliffside Duels. Duels fought outside dueling 
season must be contested away from the palace to 
avoid discovery by one of the guards or senior nobles. 
Fortunately for the combatants, such events are 
immensely popular with both duelists and spectators. 
As such, they are rarely reported to the footmen, the 
captain of the guard, the archmagus, or others who 
might be inclined to arrest the participants. The cliffs 
near the Eastern Gate are a popular dueling site for this 
reason but also quite dangerous. If either participant 
scores a critical hit during a cliffside duel, the foe might 
be forced off the path by the blow, taking falling damage 
from a fall of around 70 feet or so (7d6 bludgeoning 
damage from the fall and battering on the rocks).
The falling participant is deemed the loser. The winner 
gains Status normally, but the loser does not lose Status. 
Surviving a fall from that height makes one a celebrity 
of sorts.
Challenges and Status. A duel requires a challenge 
and an acceptance; anyone can challenge any adult fey 
to a duel, although traditionally courtesans and consorts 
neither issue nor accept challenges. Declining a duel 
results in a −1 deduction to Status, unless the challenger’s 
Status is higher than the challenged party’s by 5 or more 
(in which case no Status is lost by the challenged party). 
Particularly dramatic challenges and acceptances are a 
wonderful opportunity to award inspiration. 
 
The Crime of Cold Iron 
A cold iron weapon (as explained in Tome of Beasts) 
is treated as magical when used against any fey 
creature, and is the only sort of weapon that has 
any hope of harming the most powerful fey lords 
and ladies.
Whether the characters are aware of this fact or 
not, they might try to bring such weapons to a 
duel—in which case they are quickly made to realize 
that “carrying cold iron in court” is an egregious 
felony. On the first offense, a mortal is sharply 
informed that possession of cold iron weapons 
is forbidden and entirely outlawed in the courts, 
and most particularly in dueling. A second offense 
results in the immediate execution of the wielder 
and the destruction of the weapon.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 101 ---
100
How Combat Works. No initiative rolls are required. 
All attack rolls are simultaneous. Each participant 
makes three attacks in a standard duel, although special 
rules might increase a duelist’s number of attempts. The 
winner is the duelist who scores the most hits. 
The attack rolls in a duel use the character’s attack 
bonus and features against the defender’s AC. Note 
that most fey duels are fought “without a coward’s 
armor,” meaning that only Dexterity, natural armor, and 
magical protections are permitted—shields and suits of 
armor are not allowed unless by specific (and unusual) 
arrangement beforehand. A roll of 1 or a miss by 5 or 
more allows the opponent one unanswered follow-up 
attack (effectively, an “extra pass” during the duel). 
Otherwise, the combat proceeds normally with duelists 
moving and attacking for three turns.
Damage, Healing, and Resolution. For each 
successful hit in combat, the target takes damage 
normally. Healing, however, is impeded somewhat. Over 
the course of a season, duelists who compete frequently 
become exhausted and worn. The Shadow Realm seems 
to prevent healing for those who overexert themselves 
during this time. Hit points lost in a duel can’t be 
regained by spending Hit Dice or by finishing a long rest 
during dueling season. Instead, they are regained at a rate 
of 1 hit point per day spent resting, with a bonus each day 
equal to the wounded character’s Constitution modifier. 
A duelist with a 16 Constitution can thus recover 4 hit 
points per day of rest during dueling season.
Cheating. Either duelist can attempt to cheat by 
making two attacks in a single pass of combat. If both 
attack rolls miss, the cheating goes noticed.
If one or both of the attack rolls are successful, the foe 
might notice that the attack involved cheating. The higher 
result is the actual attack roll; the lower result is the 
cheating roll. If the opposing duelist’s passive Perception 
score + 5 is equal to or greater than the cheating roll, the 
opponent notices the breach of protocol. 
For example, a trollkin attacks a shadow fey sorcerer 
in combat dueling and decides to cheat. He makes 
two attack rolls and gets results of 26 and 13. The 26 
becomes his attack roll, and it hits; the 13 is his cheating 
roll, and it is lower than the sorcerer’s passive Perception 
score + 5. She spots the half-orc’s cheating and might 
call him on it. If an attempt to cheat is noticed and 
called out, the cheater suffers a −1 deduction to Status, 
and the duel is over. The non-cheater is declared the 
winner and gains a +1 increase to Status accordingly.
Winning. A duel takes three simultaneous checks, and 
the duelist with the most successes wins; ties are always 
possible. The winning duelist gains a +1 increase to 
Status; the loser suffers a −1 deduction to Status. If both 
duelists have the same number of successes, the duel is a 
tie and Status does not change.
Length of Dueling Season. The season ends when 
the reigning monarch says it ends, usually after two or 
three weeks or when most of the interesting duelists 
have been injured and no other significant challenges 
are expected.
CHALLENGERS AND DUELISTS
Anyone can be a challenger in a duel. In addition 
to Brightspur (see page 69), four shadow fey, three 
elves, and one roachling are the most active potential 
challengers during the dueling season, although you 
might well introduce others. This section provides 
details on a number of potential adversaries.
Caleb, Celestial-Blooded Duelist
Medium humanoid (elf), chaotic good
Armor Class 17 (studded leather)
Hit Points 117 (18d8 + 36)
Speed 30 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
13 (+1)	 20 (+5)	
14 (+2)	
13 (+1)	
12 (+1)	 16 (+3)
Saving Throws Dex +8, Con +5, Wis +4, Cha +6
Skills Arcana +4, Deception +6, Perception +4, Stealth +8
Damage Resistances fire, radiant
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 14
Languages Celestial, Common, Elvish, Umbral
Challenge 6 (2,300 XP)
Fey Ancestry. Caleb has advantage on saving throws 
against being charmed, and magic can’t put him to 
sleep.
Innate Spellcasting. Caleb’s spellcasting ability is 
Charisma. He can cast the following spells requiring no 
material components: 
At will: light
3/day: misty step (when in shadows, dim light, or 
darkness only)
1/day: cure wounds
Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, Caleb has 
disadvantage on attack rolls and on Wisdom (Perception) 
checks that rely on sight.
Traveler in Darkness. Caleb has advantage on 
Intelligence (Arcana) checks made to know about 
shadow roads and shadow magic spells or items.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 102 ---
101
ACTIONS
Multiattack. Caleb makes two rapier attacks. If he has a 
dagger drawn, he can also make one dagger attack.
Dagger. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, 
reach 5 ft. or range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d4 + 
5) piercing damage, and a target creature must succeed 
on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or be poisoned 
for 1 minute. A poisoned creature can repeat the save 
at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on 
itself on a success. 
Rapier. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 9 (1d8 + 5) piercing damage plus 7 (2d6) 
cold damage. 
REACTIONS
Parry. Caleb adds 3 to his AC against one melee attack 
that would hit him. To do so, he must see the attacker 
and be wielding a melee weapon.
Jurok
Small humanoid (goblin), lawful evil
Armor Class 18 (breastplate, shield)
Hit Points 110 (17d6 + 51)
Speed 30 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
18 (+4)	 15 (+2)	
16 (+3)	
10 (+0)	
12 (+1)	 15(+2)
Saving Throws Str +7, Dex +5, Con +6
Skills Athletics +10, Stealth +8
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 11
Languages Common, Goblin, Elvish, Umbral
Challenge 7 (2,900 XP)
Brave. Jurok has advantage on saving throws against 
being frightened.
Brute. A melee weapon deals one extra die of its damage 
when Jurok hits with it (included in the attack).
Nimble Escape. Jurok can take the Disengage or Hide 
action as a bonus action on each of his turns.
ACTIONS
Multiattack. Jurok makes three melee attacks or two 
ranged attacks.
Vicious Spear. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +7 to 
hit, reach 5 ft. or range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d6 
+ 4) piercing damage. On a roll of 20, the target takes 
an extra 7 piercing damage. The spear is magical.
Shield Bash. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 
ft., one creature. Hit: 9 (2d4 + 4) bludgeoning damage. 
If the target is a Medium or smaller creature, it must 
succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving throw or be 
knocked prone.
REACTIONS
Parry. Jurok adds 3 to his AC against one melee attack 
that would hit him. To do so, he must see the attacker 
and be wielding a melee weapon.
SIR YNGRESS THE RED
The youngest and most eager—and most ignorant—of 
the elf visitors from the River Court, Yngress pretty 
much agrees with whatever he heard last. Gullible 
enough that he doesn’t quite realize he was brought 
along to be the entertainment, Yngress is the best 
hunter at the courts other than the Black Prince and will 
frequently visit the woods and return with remarkable 
things such as unicorn foals, white bear pelts, a singing 
squirrel, or an eagle with two heads. 
Yngress keeps a longsword and a dagger tied neatly to 
his saddle, which he uses to fight any duel as needed. 
His steed, Estoile (an awakened heavy warhorse), 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 103 ---
102
occasionally whispers some advice in his ear. It is by far 
the smarter of the pair.
Sir Yngress the Red
Medium humanoid (elf), chaotic neutral
Armor Class 19 (half plate, shield)
Hit Points 91 (14d8 + 28)
Speed 30 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
19 (+4)	 15(+2)	
14 (+2)	
10 (+0)	
16 (+3)	 10 (+0)
Saving Throws Str +7, Con +5
Skills Athletics +7, Intimidation +3
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 13
Languages Common, Elvish
Challenge 6 (2,300 XP)
Action Surge (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). 
Sir Yngress can take an additional action on his turn.
Fey Ancestry. Sir Yngress has advantage on saving 
throws against being charmed, and magic can’t put him 
to sleep.
Second Wind (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). 
As a bonus action, Sir Yngress can regain 1d10 + 6 hit 
points.
ACTIONS
Multiattack. Sir Yngress makes two attacks. 
+2 Silvered Longsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, 
reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (1d8 + 4) slashing damage, 
or 11 (1d10 + 6) slashing damage if used with two 
hands. If a target is hit by two longsword attacks in one 
turn, it must succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving throw 
or be pushed 5 feet away from Sir Yngress and knocked 
prone.
Longbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, range 
150/600 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d8 + 2) piercing damage.
Development. Sir Yngress is a good sport about dueling 
and bears no grudge against those who defeat him. He 
has a tendency to bring up his victories to rub them in, 
although it’s done with a smile and a wink rather than 
smugly.
Treasure
Sir Yngress will insist that the victor in a duel against 
him take an item of value. The suggested default item is 
a +2 silvered longsword, which Yngress calls Heartsilver. 
He will, however, part with his spider silk boots of 
elvenkind or his wolf-skin cloak of elvenkind as well (but 
not both).
YIKRUGRAK, THE CRAWLING KNIGHT
Maximum Status: 12 (will accept any duel from lower 
Status)
A favored roachling gifted with great power, Yikrugrak 
is a nightmare foe who tears into her enemy with 
abandon. She accepts all challenges from those of lower 
Status and none from those of higher Status.
Yikrugrak, the Crawling Knight
Small humanoid (roachling), neutral evil
Armor Class 17 (studded leather)
Hit Points 150 (20d6 + 80)
Speed 25 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
14 (+2)	 22 (+5)	
19 (+4)	
15 (+2)	
12 (+1)	 12 (+1)
Saving Throws Str +5, Con +7
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 104 ---
103
Skills Acrobatics +8, Perception +5, Stealth +8
Senses darkvision 60 ft., tremorsense 10 ft., passive 
Perception 15
Languages Abyssal, Common
Challenge 8 (3,900 XP)
Resistant. Yikrugrak has advantage on Constitution 
saving throws.
Unlovely. Yikrugrak has disadvantage on Charisma 
(Performance or Persuasion) checks made against 
creatures that aren’t roachlings. 
ACTIONS
Multiattack. Yikrugrak makes two attacks with her 
shortsword. 
Shortsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., 
one target. Hit: 8 (1d6 + 5) piercing damage plus 7 (2d6) 
acid damage.
REACTIONS
Parry. Yikrugrak adds 3 to her AC against a melee attack 
that would hit her. To do so, she must see the target and 
be wielding a melee weapon.
Development. Oddly enough, Yikrugrak is an excellent 
potential ally for the party. Yes, in the Shadow Realm, 
everything comes with a price, but a roachling duelist 
might be among the most trustworthy individuals here. 
If the party wins the trust of the Crawling Knight by 
defeating her in a duel, she will remain loyal and friendly 
to the person who bested her. Although she is not wholly 
good, her desire to gain allies might convince her to 
train the characters in the dueling arts (granting them 
the Defensive Duelist or Dual Wielder feat for use only 
during the dueling season and without prerequisites). 
She can also give them some rather useful information 
about the maze and the Moonlit King: in particular, if 
the party helps her with one or two small tasks, such as 
gaining access to the kitchen pantry (mouths to feed!), 
retrieving her lord’s stolen dagger from the belt of Baron 
Suvid where it hangs as a prize, or even assassinating 
Brightspur (who loathes Yikrugrak as unworthy and 
un‑fey, seeking to drive her into exile).
Her information includes the knowledge that:
1. The Moonlit King is a hermit-like figure who never 
leaves his tower, and it is death to wander toward that 
tower without an invitation.
2. A hidden cache of treasure exists near the lantern 
dragonettes’ roost in the maze, buried underground 
there for times of need.
3. The king’s servants are more powerful by moonlight, 
and they might well seek to kill the characters if they 
learn what the party intends.
4. The Demon Lord of Roaches is very, 
very eager to seize the king’s title for itself.
In addition, Yikrugrak comes with a few strings 
attached—she is ready to lay eggs and is looking for an 
appropriate place (such as inside the carcasses of many 
dead fey, and even better if she could not be tied to the 
murders). She seeks a nest of rotting carcasses to raise 
her next generation. Perhaps the characters could help, 
she asks, by slaughtering a few of the fey?
A friend she might be, but hardly a human friend.
Treasure
Yikrugrak asks the winner of a duel against her to swear 
friendship. If the winner agrees, she gives the character 
a black star sapphire (1,000 gp) and a potion of greater 
healing. She also comes to visit the winner occasionally 
at awkward hours of the night, asking how the character 
has survived and avoided the wrath of the Moonlit King 
so far.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 105 ---
104
LADY SORREMINX OF THE RIVER COURT
Minimum Status: 13
An exotic, black-haired high elf from the River Court 
who enjoys scholarship and history, Lady Sorreminx 
carries an ebony wand set with diamonds at both ends. 
She prefers to hear discussions of things arcane and 
historical rather than dueling and swordplay, and she is 
always quick to point out the flaws in her foes. Indeed, 
she delivers her putdowns with a cruel smile: “Where 
did you learn your major arcana, in a pigsty? Any 
apprentice knows better, sir, for shame!”
Lady Sorreminx of the River Court
Medium humanoid (elf), neutral evil
Armor Class 16 (elven chain)
Hit Points 77 (14d8 + 14)
Speed 30 ft. 
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
8 (–1)	
14 (+2)	
12 (+1)	
12 (+1)	
13 (+1)	
21 (+5)
Saving Throws Con +4, Cha +8
Skills Deception +8, Insight +4, Perception +4, 
Persuasion +8
Senses darkvision 60 ft,. passive Perception 14
Languages Common, Elvish, Umbral
Challenge 7 (2,900 XP)
Fey Ancestry. Sorreminx has advantage on 
saving throws against being charmed, and 
magic can’t put her to sleep. 
Metamagic. Sorreminx can use the following 
options when casting her spells. She can use 
Heightened Spell twice and Quickened Spell three 
times, and regains expended uses when she finishes a 
short or long rest: 
Quickened Spell. Sorreminx casts a spell with a casting 
time of 1 action as a bonus action instead.
Heightened Spell. One target of a spell Sorreminx casts 
has disadvantage on the first saving throw it makes 
against the spell.
Special Equipment. Elven chain, silvered rapier, wand of 
the warmage
Spellcasting. Sorreminx is a 12th-level spellcaster. Her 
spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 16, +9 to 
hit with spell attacks). She knows the following sorcerer 
spells:
Cantrips (at will): blade ward, fire bolt, light, minor 
illusion, prestidigitation, shocking grasp
1st level (4 slots): feather fall, grease, shield
2nd level (3 slots): false life, invisibility, scorching ray
3rd level (3 slots): hold person, vampiric touch
4th level (3 slots): bestow curse, black tentacles
5th level (2 slots): cone of cold, telekinesis
6th level (1 slot): sunbeam
ACTIONS
Silvered Rapier. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 
ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d8 + 2) piercing damage.
Development. Lady Sorreminx sometimes takes a liking 
to those who spar well. If a character who duels her 
shows any romantic interest, the two might become an 
item at court. 
If such a character snubs Lady Sorreminx, she might 
take it badly unless the character lets her down smoothly 
with a successful DC 14 Charisma (Persuasion) check. 
Failure to disentangle oneself gracefully means that 
Sorreminx might connive to have Sir Rujan or Lord 
Chelessfield challenge the duelist soon.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 106 ---
105
Treasure
Lady Sorreminx happily gives a victorious duelist a 
5,000 gp emerald and a potion of superior healing.
SIR RUJAN, KNIGHT OF THE BARNACLE TREE
Minimum Status: 15
Sir Rujan is both an instigator of duels and a master of 
shadow fey illusion.
Sir Rujan, Knight of the Barnacle Tree
Medium humanoid (elf), neutral evil
Armor Class 15 (18 with mage armor)
Hit Points 104 (16d8 + 32)
Speed 30 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
14 (+X)	 20 (+5)	
15 (+2)	
18 (+4)	
12 (+1)	 14 (+2)
Saving Throws Dex +8, Int +7
Skills Acrobatics +8, Arcana +7, Deception +8, Insight +4, 
Intimidation +8, Perception +4, Stealth +8
Damage Resistances cold
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 14
Languages Common, Elvish, Umbral
Challenge 7 (2,900 XP)
Cunning Action. On each of his turns, Rujan can use a 
bonus action to take the Dash, Disengage, or Hide action.
Fey Ancestry. Rujan has advantage on saving throws 
against being charmed, and magic can’t put him to sleep.
Innate Spellcasting. Rujan’s spellcasting ability is 
Charisma. He can cast the following spell, requiring no 
material components: 
2/day: misty step (when in shadows, dim light, or 
darkness only)
Sneak Attack (1/Turn). Rujan deals an extra 14 (4d6) 
damage when it hits a target with a weapon attack and 
has advantage on the attack roll, or when the target is 
within 5 feet of an ally of Rujan’s that isn’t incapacitated 
and Rujan doesn’t have disadvantage on the attack roll. 
Spellcasting. Rujan is a 7th-level spellcaster. His 
spellcasting ability is Intelligence (spell save DC 15, +7 to 
hit with spell attacks). He has the following wizard spells 
prepared: 
Cantrips (at will): minor image, prestidigitation,  
ray of frost, 
1st level (4 slots): mage armor, shield
2nd level (3 slots): invisibility, mirror image,  
phantasmal force
3rd level (2 slots): blink, counterspell, major image
4th level (1 slot): greater invisibility
Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, Rujan has 
disadvantage on attack rolls and on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks that rely on sight.
Traveler in Darkness. Rujan has advantage on 
Intelligence (Arcana) checks made to know about 
shadow roads and shadow magic spells or items.
ACTIONS
Multiattack. Rujan makes two attacks with his rapier.
Rapier. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 9 (1d8 + 5) piercing damage plus 3 (1d6) 
cold damage.
Development. Sir Rujan appears calm and poised in 
defeat, but inside he seethes with rage. He grants no 
gifts or spoils to the victor in a duel, although he will 
attempt to claim some similar reward (by intimidation 
and threats, generally) if he comes out on top.
LORD CHELESSFIELD, MASTER OF THE ALPINE
Minimum Status: 17
This elderly elf, with golden hair and purple eyes, wears 
a tabard of white marked with blue diamonds. He has 
a set of mithral bracers as well as a circlet of pure gold 
worked into the shape of a dragon (the symbol of his 
title and rule of the highlands in the fey realms).
Lord Chelessfield carries a boar spear and a hand 
crossbow on his off days, and is a close friend of the 
Black Prince because of his love of the hunt. He is 
a dangerous foe, since he is interested in what the 
characters might do in the Shadow Realm, rather than 
hoping to score points with the ladies. He asks the 
characters many pointed questions about their goals 
here, what acts of murder they might have committed 
against elf or shadow fey interests, and what other lords 
they might have crossed swords with.
Lord Chelessfield
Medium humanoid (elf), chaotic neutral
Armor Class 20 (mithral plate, shield)
Hit Points 117 (18d8 + 36)
Speed 30 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
21 (+5)	 12 (+1)	
14 (+2)	
14 (+2)	
14 (+2)	 12 (+2)
Saving Throws Con +5, Wis +5
Skills Athletics +8, Insight +5, Perception +5, Persuasion 
+8, Survival +5
Senses darkvision 60 ft,. passive Perception 15
Languages Common, Elvish, Sylvan, Umbral
Challenge 7 (2,900 XP)
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 107 ---
106
Brave. Lord Chelessfield has advantage on saving throws 
against being frightened.
Brute. A melee weapon deals one extra die of its damage 
when Lord Chelessfield hits with it (included in his 
attacks). 
Fey Ancestry. Lord Chelessfield has advantage on saving 
throws against being charmed, and magic can’t put him 
to sleep.
ACTIONS
Multiattack. Lord Chelessfield makes three melee attacks.
Longsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to 
hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d8 + 5) 
slashing damage.
Shield Bash. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to 
hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (2d4 + 5) 
bludgeoning damage, and the target must 
succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving throw 
or be knocked prone.
Leadership (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). 
For 1 minute, Lord Chelessfield can utter a special 
command or warning whenever a nonhostile creature 
that he can see within 30 feet of Lord Chelessfield 
makes an attack roll or a saving throw. The creature can 
add a d4 to its roll provided it can hear and understand 
Lord Chelessfield. A creature can benefit from only 
one Leadership die at a time. This effect ends if Lord 
Chelessfield is incapacitated.
Development. Defeating Lord Chelessfield irks him 
but does nothing to affect shadow fey politics. He might 
choose to woo a courtesan that his challenger also 
pursues or has won—and given his charm and wealth, 
he might well win her away.
Treasure
Lord Chelessfield gives a sentinel shield to the victor 
if he is defeated; it is marked with the blue-and-white 
mountain insignia of his home fiefdom. He also 
generously offers to foster any of the victor’s offspring in 
the knightly arts and to teach that child archery.
BARON SUVID, LORD OF BLADES
Minimum Status: 19
Baron Suvid’s clothes are made of shimmering silk 
woven with silver, so that they ripple like water when he 
moves. He wears lace, feathers, and ribbons as well, all 
of which turn into a blurry cloud of color. Following his 
lunges and slashes in combat is exceedingly difficult for 
spectators, not to mention opponents.
A quickstep who is the fastest and perhaps most lethal 
blade at the court, Suvid is widely and justly feared. 
Speed is his main weapon, together with the ability to 
shift away when he pleases and to humiliate his lessers. 
He’s usually looking for an excuse to duel someone; the 
Ravens are all terrified of him, and he defends the honor 
of the Grey Ladies faction when they ask it of him. 
When dueling, Suvid wears armor made of white 
feathers that further blurs his movements. Generally, he 
becomes visible in the instant before combat begins, and 
then begins a whirlwind of destruction.
Baron Suvid
Small fey, chaotic evil
Armor Class 16 
Hit Points 121 (22d6 + 44)
Speed 120 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
10 (+0)	 23 (+6)	
15 (+2)	
15 (+2)	
17 (+3)	 12 (+1)
Saving Throws Dex +9
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 108 ---
107
Skills Acrobatics +12, Perception +9, Sleight of 
Hand +12, Stealth +12
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 19
Languages Common, Umbral
Challenge 7 (2,900 XP)
Evasion. If Suvid is subjected to an effect that allows 
him to make a Dexterity saving throw to take only 
half damage, he instead takes no damage if he 
succeeds on the saving throw, and only half 
damage if he fails.
Sneak Attack (1/Turn). 
Suvid deals an extra 10 
(3d6) damage when 
he hits a target with a weapon attack 
and has advantage on the attack roll, or when the 
target is within 5 feet of an ally of Suvid’s that isn’t 
incapacitated and Suvid doesn’t have disadvantage 
on the attack roll.
Speed Blur. Attack rolls against Suvid have 
disadvantage unless his speed is reduced to 0.
ACTIONS
Multiattack. Suvid makes three shortsword attacks.
Shortsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., 
one target. Hit: 9 (1d6 + 6) piercing damage plus 3 (1d6) 
poison damage.
Invisibility. Suvid magically turns invisible until 
he attacks, or until his concentration ends (as if 
concentrating on a spell). Any equipment Suvid wears or 
carries is invisible with him.
Tactics. Suvid employs hit-and-run tactics, using his 
invisibility to engage and deliver sneak attacks; he 
strikes, then moves away and returns, literally running 
around his foe as needed. If badly wounded, Suvid 
disengages and retreats. He is not a fan of fighting very 
long, and as he leaves, he shouts, “The King shall hear of 
this! You shall be struck down as the impure whoreson 
mongrels you are!”
Development. If Suvid is defeated, most of the court 
is terrified at the thought of dueling the winner. Suvid, 
however, wants revenge. In a day or two, he talks to the 
Black Prince about banishing the characters—and when 
that fails, he will turn to the assassins of Akyishigal or 
even the moonlight demons of the king.
Treasure
Baron Suvid is remarkably magnanimous in defeat after 
a formal duel; he is seeking, in fact, to win favor with 
the character for the future, hoping to turn this deadly 
combatant into someone he can manipulate. He gives two 
very rich gifts in the wake of a duel: a quickstep‑forged, 
glossy black scimitar of speed and a circlet set 
with two sparkling diamonds (worth 10,000 
gp in total).
Act III, Scene 5: Akyishigal, 
Demon Lord of Roaches
Minimum Status: 13
The party is invited to meet the Demon Lord of Roaches, 
who seeks to dissolve the court and seize power from the 
queen While pretending to offer alliance and friendship, 
the demon is a well of corruption and destruction. The 
queen knows this fact well but keeps the demon lord on 
a leash, just as she does her demon hounds and her son, 
the Black Prince. Akyishigal is in love with—or at least 
obsessed by—the fey princess Vailessia Graystone (who 
is all too often absent from the court). To help secure 
her, Akyishigal seeks allies among the humans, since 
even its scuttling shadow minions are outnumbered 
here. In particular, Akyishigal is frequently outfoxed by 
the Lords of Light (see page 74), so it seeks to approach 
the characters after they are rejected by that group or 
before they even speak to Revich the Blind Seer.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 109 ---
108
Motivation. Akyishigal wants to rise into the ranks of 
shadow fey nobility and join the court through force 
and fear. It plans to shred the king’s soul and offers 
information to would-be allies about the tower labyrinth 
and how to get through the maze—and about the rich 
magical treasures it can offer to anyone who produces 
proof of the Moonlit King’s death.
AN INVITATION TO THE DEPTHS
A strange goblin steps forward from the shadows and 
bows; it seems to have antennae or horns of some 
kind on its forehead. “You are invited, lords and ladies, 
to treat with one who has watched your climb from 
the sewers to the stars. Lord Akyishigal would share 
confidences with you at the bottom of the Black Well 
tonight at moonrise.” 
	 The odd little goblin bows and steps away. 
If the characters accept the invitation and go to the 
Well of Night (area 52), a successful DC 17 Strength 
(Athletics) check allows them to climb safely 50 feet 
down the slippery, slimy walls of the well into the 
darkness below. Their arrival does not go unnoticed.
The chamber is mostly dark, yet the sound of scuttling 
and scraping is everywhere; five-foot-thick pillars 
of black stone reach up to the ceiling twenty feet 
overhead. A creature with the head of an enormous 
cockroach steps into the dim light, its antennae 
twitching. “Welcome to the blackest pit in the palace. 
The only ones who visit here are my servants and my 
food. Which are you?” 
	 All around in the darkness, a hundred scuttling legs 
suddenly stop.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 110 ---
109
ENCOUNTER CHOICES
Hard (9th-level characters)—Akyishigal
Hard (11th-level characters)—Akyishigal, 2 spawn of 
Akyishigal, 3 roachling soldiers, 3 roachling servitors
Deadly (12th-level characters)—Akyishigal, 4 spawn of 
Akyishigal, 6 roachling soldiers, 6 roachling servitors
Illumination. Light sources all fade by one category 
here: from bright light to dim, and from dim light to 
darkness. A shadow censer burns in the center of the 
chamber, darkness spreading from it.
Pillars. The pillars grapple any foe that starts its turn 
within 5 feet of them (escape DC 14).
REACTIONS AND NEGOTIATING  
WITH THE DEMON LORD
If the characters respond with “Your guests,” the demon 
lord remembers its plan to bribe the party. It offers 
them power in the form of two appropriate rare or 
uncommon magic items in exchange for the Orb of 
Rule, which is currently held by the Moonlit King. If 
the characters accept this offer, the speaker becomes 
a member of Akyishigal’s faction (see “Fealty to the 
Demon Lord” below). The lord says, “Take this brooch 
as a sign of our bargain.” Refusing to do so enrages it 
and might result in combat unless the characters leave 
immediately. If the characters escape without instigating 
combat with Akyishigal, award each character 2,500 XP. 
If the characters respond with “Neither,” the demon 
lord is offended. The characters must make a successful 
DC 17 Charisma (Deception) or DC 20 Charisma 
(Persuasion) check each round to keep Akyishigal from 
attacking. The demon is an impatient listener, and its 
swarms attack on a single failed check. If the party has 
nothing to bargain with or if a single character visits 
alone, the servants might join combat immediately.
If the characters respond with “Your servants,” the 
demon lord offers the group badges (shiny black roaches 
that are worn as brooches or buckles). Those who accept 
the badges become members of Akyishigal’s faction.
Fealty to the Demon Lord. Akyishigal is perfectly 
willing to accept the party’s fealty; each character 
who swears fealty so gains a Tiny roach companion 
that always accompanies them. Akyishigal, operating 
through the roach, can dominate that character for 1 
round, as the spell dominate monster, at any future time 
(with no saving throw allowed). Characters who pledge 
their service to Akyishigal earn a +2 increase to Status 
and the undying hatred of the Lords of Light, because 
doing so is an evil act. 
If the characters respond in any other way, it’s up to 
you to figure out whether the demon lord decides to talk 
to them or eat them for supper.
Akyishigal
Large fiend (demon), chaotic evil
Armor Class 18 (natural armor)
Hit Points 138 (12d10 + 72)
Speed 40 ft., burrow 20 ft., climb 40 ft., fly 40 ft. 
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
21 (+5)	 17 (+3)	
22 (+6)	
19 (+4)	
14 (+2)	
24 (+7)
Saving Throws Str +9, Dex +7, Con +10, Wis +6, Cha +11
Skills Acrobatics +11, Athletics +9, Perception +6,  
Stealth +11
Damage Resistances acid, fire; bludgeoning, piercing, and 
slashing from nonmagical attacks
Damage Immunities cold, lightning, poison
Condition Immunities poisoned
Senses darkvision 120 ft., truesight 60 ft., passive 
Perception 16
Languages Abyssal, Common, Draconic, Elvish, Infernal, 
telepathy 60 ft. 
Challenge 12 (8,400 XP)
Innate Spellcasting. Akyishigal’s innate spellcasting 
ability is Charisma (spell save DC 19, +11 to hit with 
spell attacks). It can innately cast the following spells, 
requiring no material components: 
At will: detect evil and good, magic circle, teleport
3/day each: dispel magic, insect plague (6th level), 
shapechange (vermin only)
1/day: contagion (filth fever only)
Magic Resistance. Akyishigal has advantage on saving 
throws against spells and other magical effects.
Summon Demon (1/day). Akyishigal can summon a 
rattok demonCC. The rattok appears in an unoccupied 
Shards of a Broken Mind:  
The Root of Madness 
Akyishigal conceals one of the clues to unraveling 
the Moonlit King’s madness: that the demon lord 
caused the king to go mad in the first place. 
The demon’s ambitions hinge on the destruction 
of the Moonlit King. Although the Roach Lord won’t 
reveal much, it does tell those who swear fealty to it 
that it drove the king mad to force him out of favor 
as part of a long-term scheme. Akyishigal tells this to 
its new vassals in the hope of impressing upon them 
the vast reach of its influence and power.
This particular secret is known to one other group: 
the Lords of Light.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 111 ---
110
space within 60 feet of Akyishigal, acts as an ally of 
Akyishigal, and can’t summon other demons. It remains 
for 1 minute, until it or its summoner dies, or until its 
summoner dismisses it as an action.
ACTIONS
Multiattack. Akyishigal makes four claw attacks.
Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 10 ft., one 
target. Hit: 16 (2d10 + 5) slashing damage.
Cloak of Swarms (Recharge 5–6). Akyishigal can emit 
a cloud of flying stinging insects from its mouth, its 
eyes, and the tears in his skin. This cloud surrounds 
it to a radius of 5 feet. When the cloak is active, all 
attacks against Akyishigal are made with disadvantage, 
and Akyishigal can see in all directions (through the 
insects’ eyes). Any living creature that starts its turn 
within 5 feet of Akyishigal takes 11 (2d10) piercing 
damage plus 10 (3d6) poison damage, or half as much 
poison damage with a successful DC 17 Constitution 
saving throw. If the saving throw fails, the character is 
also poisoned for 1 hour. The swarm lasts for up to 5 
rounds but dissipates instantly if Akyishigal takes 30 
or more damage from a non-weapon source that it 
doesn’t have resistance to. While poisoned by Cloak of 
Swarms, a character emits a stench of decomposition. 
All uncontrolled vermin attack that character on sight 
and in preference to other targets. 
LEGENDARY ACTIONS
Akyishigal can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from 
the options below. Only one legendary action option 
can be used at a time and only at the end of another 
creature’s turn. Akyishigal regains spent legendary 
actions at the start of its turn.
Teleport. Akyishigal teleports to any unoccupied space it 
can see.
Skitter. Akyishigal makes one attack and moves up to 20 
feet without provoking opportunity attacks, or vice versa.
Spellcasting (Costs 2 Actions). Akyishigal casts insect 
plague.
Spawn of Akyishigal
Medium fiend (demon), chaotic evil
Armor Class 15 (natural armor)
Hit Points 119 (14d8 + 56)
Speed 30 ft., climb 30 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
15 (+2)	 13 (+1)	
19 (+4)	
10 (+0)	
11 (+0)	 12 (+1)
Saving Throws Dex +4
Damage Immunities poison
Condition Immunities poisoned
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 10
Languages Abyssal, Infernal, Spawn of Akyishigal
Challenge 5 (1,800 XP)
Command Vermin. Spawn of Akyishigal can command 
Tiny beasts of Intelligence 2 or lower within 30 feet that 
aren’t under any magical control. The beasts obey the 
spawn’s commands to the best of their ability, heedless 
of their own safety.
Akyishigal
Of all the dreadful demons lurking within the Abyss, 
perhaps none is as vile and disgusting as Akyishigal, 
the Cockroach Demon, whose filth-slicked mandibles 
clack hungrily and ceaselessly for the flesh and souls 
of humans. Despite this, it has a surprising number 
of followers among the urban dispossessed, the 
slum-dwelling downtrodden, and those who lurk 
within the lightless depths beneath cities.
Though Akyishigal has sired an entire race in its 
image, it still craves followers among humans, elves, 
and other races as a means of corrupting civilization 
from within, rotting it at its core like an aging fruit. 
Shrines are most likely to be located in abandoned 
buildings, garbage dumps, sewers, ruins, graveyards, 
and other filthy places.
Kidnapped victims find themselves submerged 
in filth with only their heads showing. Bound, 
disoriented by darkness and sounds of chanting, 
and paralyzed by fear, the innocent are helpless to 
prevent their fate as ravenous roaches feast on their 
eyes and tongues. A sacrifice who survives is later 
released back into the populace. There, blind and 
speechless, its body wracked by disease contracted 
from the filth in which it was submerged, the sacrifice 
despairs as its slow decline toward death becomes a 
drain on family and society.
In most cases, the cripple soon begins begging 
in the slums, adding to the seething mass of 
disenchanted citizens that exist in the shadows of 
the worst large cities. These tragic figures become 
potential new supplicants for Akyishigal, who 
promises to heal them of their ills but leaves them 
hollow shells of bitterness and cruelty. These cults are 
almost as difficult to stamp out as are real cockroach 
infestations. Even if they are driven off repeatedly, 
followers inevitably resurface among the teeming 
mobs of beggars, thugs, streetwalkers, and refugees.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 112 ---
111
ACTIONS
Multiattack. The spawn makes one bite attack and two 
sting attacks. 
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 7 (1d10 + 2) piercing damage.
Sting. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 11 (2d8 + 2) piercing damage and the target 
must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or 
be poisoned for 1d6 rounds.
Swarming Cough (Recharge 5–6). The spawn can belch 
forth a swarm of insects. The swarm is completely under 
the spawn’s control. It remains for 1 minute or until 
destroyed. The spawn can have only one such swarm at 
a time. If it coughs up a new swarm, the previous one 
dissipates. 
Roachling Servitor
Small humanoid (roachling), chaotic neutral
Armor Class 13 (natural armor)
Hit Points 7 (2d6)
Speed 25 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
10 (+0)	
14 (+2)	
11 (+0)	
10 (+0)	
9 (–1)	
10 (+0)
Saving Throws Dex +4, Con +2
Skills Acrobatics +4, Stealth +6
Senses darkvision 60 ft., tremorsense 10 ft., passive 
Perception 9
Languages Abyssal, Common
Challenge 1/4 (50 XP)
Resistant. The roachling has advantage on Constitution 
saving throws.
Unlovely. The roachling has disadvantage on Charisma 
(Performance and Persuasion) checks made against  
non-roachlings. 
ACTIONS
Shortsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., 
one target. Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) piercing damage.
Dart. Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, range 20/60 ft., 
one target. Hit: 4 (1d4 + 2) piercing damage.
Roachling Soldier
Small humanoid (roachling), chaotic neutral
Armor Class 15 (natural armor)
Hit Points 63 (14d6 + 14)
Speed 25 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
10 (+0)	 16 (+3)	
12 (+1)	
10 (+0)	
10 (+0)	 10 (+0)
Saving Throws Dex +5, Con +3
Skills Acrobatics +5, Stealth +7
Senses darkvision 60 ft., tremorsense 10 ft., passive 
Perception 10
Languages Abyssal, Common
Challenge 2 (450 XP)
Resistant. The roachling has advantage on Constitution 
saving throws.
Unlovely. The roachling has disadvantage on Charisma 
(Performance and Persuasion) checks made against non-
roachlings. 
ACTIONS
Multiattack. The roachling soldier makes two attacks. 
Shortsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., 
one target. Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) piercing damage plus 7 (2d6) 
poison damage.
Dart. Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, range 20/60 ft., 
one target. Hit: 5 (1d4 + 3) piercing damage plus 7 (2d6) 
poison damage.
The servitors and soldiers stay close to their master, the 
better to tear its foes to pieces.
Development. If the characters fight to the bitter end, 
they will be swarmed and overrun by the Roach Lord 
and its underlings. Any non-good character “killed” 
by the Roach Lord and its servants is transformed into 
a roachling NPC in its service. Unaligned characters 
become evil, and evil characters become chaotic evil. 
Treasure
The roaches have a hoard of fey memories in physical 
form and an appropriate very rare magic item. The 
shadow censer here requires incense to use its dimming 
magic.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 113 ---
112
Act III, Scene 6:  
The Black Prince and His Hounds
Minimum Status: 17 for an audience, 21 to go hunting 
Though the characters might never be introduced 
to him until they rise in Status enough to be invited 
hunting, the Black Prince is certainly aware of them, 
and his raven spies watch carefully to see where 
interesting travelers go. To all guests, the Black Prince 
is superficially friendly. In truth, he is bored and 
constantly looking for distractions to amuse himself 
(and possibly obtain assistance in sensitive and 
surreptitious matters of state).
As the party grows in influence, the brooding Black 
Prince becomes a rival; he is certainly his father’s son—
an arrogant cad who expects a great deal of deference 
from visitors. When the time is right, the prince sends 
forth a white raven, or perhaps Kolya the Kennel Master, 
to communicate to the characters a simple invitation 
without specifics: “Requesting your presence to attend 
his Royal Majesty in the Great Hall of the Shadow Court 
an hour after moonrise.” 
MEETING THE PRINCE
The audience chamber is filled with glowing light and 
shimmering surfaces; its walls ripple under the weight 
of tens of thousands of white moths. The fey lord sits 
atop a small chair draped in purple velvet. He wears 
black chain armor and a bascinet topped by a glowing 
white feather. He carries a rapier at his side, and he 
pets an enormous black dog. Beside him is a female 
shadow fey with hair as white as his is black.
The white moths on the walls aren’t just decorative; 
they are also an alarm against intruders, covering any 
non-fey in hundreds of otherwise harmless but glowing 
creatures. Creatures covered in butterflies are affected as 
if by a faerie fire spell.
The female is Rosali Svenk, the prince’s sister. Unlike 
most shadow fey, her skin is deathly pale, almost white, 
contrasting with her large, black eyes. She is tall and 
graceful, dressed in hooded black robes decorated with 
silvery eldritch patterns; her wide grin is cruel and 
predatory. She carries a gnarled staff decorated with 
raven feathers and the skulls of tiny animals.
Intelligence (Investigation) DC 20—The woman must 
be the prince’s sister, also called the Pale Witch of the 
Umbral Marches. She is said to visit the courts but 
rarely. His dogs are his own breed of shadow mastiffs, 
and his shadow fey archers keep watch from above 
and all sides; they do not all walk beside their prince, 
but at a distance, keeping an arrow in hand at all times 
as a sign of their vigilance.
Intelligence (Nature) DC 18—The dog resembles a 
mastiff from the Margreve forest but is even larger. 
These creatures are notorious teleporting beasts.
Wisdom (Perception) DC 25—A wooden gallery runs 
above the audience chamber, with the sounds of fey 
voices and the rattle of quivers coming from within it. 
Wisdom (Insight) DC 13—The woman resembles the 
prince and might be a relative.
ENCOUNTER CHOICES
Medium (9th-level characters)—The Black Prince (not 
recommended; single foes against a party are rarely 
satisfying)
Deadly (9th-level characters)—The Black Prince, the 
Pale Witch, 1 hound of the night
Hard (11th-level characters)—The Black Prince, the 
Pale Witch, 2 shadow fey archers, 1 hound of the night
Hander Svenk, the Black Prince
Medium humanoid (elf), neutral evil
Armor Class 17 (mithral half plate)
Hit Points 120 (16d8 + 48)
Speed 30 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
20 (+5)	
15 (+2)	
16 (+3)	
12 (+1)	
20 (+5)	 14 (+2)
Saving Throws Dex +6, Con +7
Skills Arcana +5, Deception +6, Insight +9, Persuasion 
+6, Perception +9, Stealth +6, Survival +9
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 19
Languages Common, Elvish, Sylvan, Umbral
Challenge 9 (5,000 XP)
Brute. A melee weapon deals one extra die of its damage 
when the Black Prince hits with it (included in the 
attacks). 
Fey Ancestry. The Black Prince has advantage on saving 
throws against being charmed, and magic can’t put him 
to sleep.
Innate Spellcasting. The Black Prince’s innate 
spellcasting ability is Charisma. He can cast the following 
spell innately, requiring no material components: 
2/day: misty step (when in shadows, dim light, or 
darkness only)
Spellcasting. The Black Prince is a 5th-level spellcaster. 
His spellcasting ability is Wisdom (save DC 17, +9 to hit 
with spell attacks). He knows the following ranger spells:
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 114 ---
113
Cantrips (at will): blade ward, prestidigitation,  
produce flame, shocking grasp
1st level (4 slots): cure wounds, hunter’s mark, 
longstrider, speak with animals
2nd level (3 slots): lesser restoration, pass without trace, 
silence
3rd level (3 slots): conjure animals, plant growth, 
protection from energy
Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the Black Prince 
has disadvantage on attack rolls and on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks that rely on sight.
Traveler in Darkness. The Black Prince has advantage 
on Intelligence (Arcana) checks made to know about 
shadow roads and shadow magic spells or items.
ACTIONS
Multiattack. The Black Prince can use Shadow Charge 
if it’s available, then makes two melee attacks. He can 
choose to cast a cantrip in place of one of those attacks.
Spear. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 
5 ft. or range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (2d6 + 5) 
piercing damage plus 9 (2d8) poison damage, or 14 
(2d8 + 5) plus 9 (2d8) poison damage if used with two 
hands to make a melee attack. If the Black Prince throws 
his spear, he can magically call it back to his hand as a 
bonus action.
Shadow Charge (2/rest). The Black Prince teleports up 
to 60 feet to an unoccupied space within 5 feet of a 
creature he can see.
REACTIONS
Parry. The Black Prince adds 4 to his AC against one 
melee attack that would hit him. To do so, he must see 
the attacker and be wielding a melee weapon. 
Rosali Svenk, the Pale Witch
Medium humanoid (elf), neutral evil
Armor Class 16 (breastplate)
Hit Points 123 (19d8 + 38)
Speed 30 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
10 (+0)	 15 (+2)	
14 (+2)	
12 (+1)	
17 (+3)	 18 (+4)
Saving Throws Dex +5, Wis +6, Cha +7
Skills Arcana +4, Deception +7, Perception +6, 
Persuasion +7, Stealth +5
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 16
Languages Common, Elvish, Umbral
Challenge 7 (2,900 XP)
Fey Ancestry. The Pale Witch has advantage on saving 
throws against being charmed, and magic can’t put her 
to sleep.
Innate Spellcasting. The Pale Witch’s innate spellcasting 
ability is Charisma. She can cast the following spell 
innately, requiring no material components: 
4/day: misty step (when in shadows, dim light, or 
darkness only)
Spellcasting. The Pale Witch is a 10th-level spellcaster. 
Her spellcasting ability is Charisma (save DC 15, +7 to hit 
with spell attacks). She knows the following bard spells:
Cantrips (at will): blade ward, friends, message, vicious 
mockery
1st level (4 slots): bane, charm person, faerie fire
2nd level (3 slots): enthrall, hold person
3rd level (3 slots): conjure animals, fear, hypnotic 
pattern
4th level (3 slots): confusion, greater invisibility, 
phantasmal killer
5th level (2 slots): animate objects, dominate person, 
hold monster
Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the Pale Witch 
has disadvantage on attack rolls and on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks that rely on sight.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 115 ---
114
Traveler in Darkness. The Pale Witch has advantage 
on Intelligence (Arcana) checks made to know about 
shadow roads and shadow magic spells or items.
ACTIONS
Multiattack. The Pale Witch makes two rapier attacks.
Rapier. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 6 (1d8 + 2) piercing damage plus 17 (5d6) 
psychic damage.
Beguiling Whispers (Recharge 5–6). The Pale Witch 
speaks sweet words to a creature she can see within 
60 feet that can hear her. The creature must succeed 
on a DC 15 Charisma saving throw or be charmed for 
1 minute. While charmed in this way, the creature has 
disadvantage on Wisdom and Charisma saving throws 
made to resist spells cast by the Pale Witch.
Leadership (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). For 
1 minute, the Pale Witch can utter a special command 
or warning whenever a nonhostile creature that she can 
see within 30 feet of it makes an attack roll or a saving 
throw. The creature can add a d4 to its roll provided 
it can hear and understand the Pale Witch. A creature 
can benefit from only one Leadership die at a time. This 
effect ends if the Pale Witch is incapacitated.
Hound of the Night
Large monstrosity, neutral evil
Armor Class 16 (natural armor)
Hit Points 112 (15d10 + 30)
Speed 50 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
20 (+5)	
16 (+3)	
14 (+2)	
9 (–1)	
14 (+2)	
10 (+0)
Saving Throws Dex +6, Con +5, Wis +5
Skills Intimidation +3, Perception +5, Stealth +6
Damage Vulnerabilities fire
Damage Immunities cold
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 16
Languages understands Elvish and Umbral but can’t speak
Challenge 5 (1,800 XP)
Blood Scent. A hound of the night can follow a scent 
through phase shifts, ethereal movement, dimension 
door, and fey steps of any kind. Teleport and plane shift 
are beyond its ability to follow.
Innate Spellcasting. The hound’s innate spellcasting 
ability is Wisdom (spell save DC 13). It can innately cast 
the following spell, requiring no material components: 
At will: dimension door
ACTIONS
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 21 (3d10 + 5) piercing damage, and the 
target must succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving throw 
or be knocked prone.
Frost Breath (Recharge 5–6). The hound exhales a 
15‑foot cone of frost. Each creature in the cone must 
make a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw, taking 44 (8d10) 
cold damage on a failed save or half as much damage 
on a successful one.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 116 ---
115
Shadow Fey Archer
Medium humanoid (elf), neutral evil
Armor Class 15 (chain shirt)
Hit Points 105 (14d8 + 42)
Speed 40 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
12 (+1)	 18 (+4)	
12 (+1)	
11 (+0)	
12 (+1)	 16 (+3)
Saving Throws Dex +7, Con +4, Cha +6
Skills Arcana +3, Perception +4, Stealth +10, Survival +4
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 14
Languages Common, Elvish, Umbral
Challenge 5 (1,800 XP)
Fey Ancestry. The shadow fey has advantage on saving 
throws against being charmed, and magic can’t put it to 
sleep.
Innate Spellcasting. The shadow fey’s innate spellcasting 
ability is Charisma. It can cast the following spell 
innately, requiring no material components: 
3/day: misty step (when in shadows, dim light, or 
darkness only)
Sneak Attack (1/Turn). The shadow fey deals an extra 
7 (2d6) damage when it hits a target with a weapon 
attack and has advantage on the attack roll, or when 
the target is within 5 feet of an ally of the shadow fey 
that isn’t incapacitated and the shadow fey doesn’t have 
disadvantage on the attack roll.
Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the shadow 
fey has disadvantage on attack rolls and on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks that rely on sight.
Traveler in Darkness. The shadow fey has advantage 
on Intelligence (Arcana) checks made to know about 
shadow roads and shadow magic spells or items.
ACTIONS
Multiattack. The shadow fey makes two ranged attacks. 
Rapier. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) piercing damage poison damage.
Longbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, range 
150/600 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) piercing damage 
plus 7 (2d6) poison damage.
Tactics. The hound corners a foe and attacks from 
darkness if possible. It uses its Frost Breath to catch 
clustered enemies before teleporting next to its victim 
to threaten any responders. The Pale Witch seeks to stay 
out of melee combat if she can, using her spells and her 
enchanting voice to disrupt foes, possibly turning them 
against one another. If an opponent engages her in close 
combat, she slips away with misty step before using 
turning her full attention on that character. The archers 
first target anyone who is a melee threat to the prince. 
Subsequent targets include anyone who casts blasting 
spells; the archers concentrate fire on these figures, 
especially on identifiable clerics and healers.
Treasure
The Black Prince keeps many odd things in his 
chamber—the horns of a shadow elk as a hunting trophy, 
the bottled sighs of virgins, and the collected shadows 
of the Family Stross— but these are valuable only in the 
Shadow Realm, or at least only among the shadow fey.
His real treasure is a set of a dozen silver apples made 
of distilled moonlight. These apples shine like mithral 
and are worth 1,000 gp each. Moonlight apples are rare 
wondrous items; when consumed, one grants a creature 
a +1 bonus to AC and saving throws and immunity to 
Sunlight Sensitivity for a year and a day. The apples are 
always carried by two young shadow fey pages who 
retain them until such time as the Moonlit King returns 
to the palace. They are for the prince’s consumption 
alone, not for any lesser creatures.
DEVELOPMENTS WITHOUT COMBAT
If the characters appear as summoned, the prince speaks 
to them courteously and warns them off. “Do not 
interfere with the Blood Royal. Do not attempt to bring 
your quarrels to my mother. And do not tamper with 
my ravens, my hounds, or my friend Baron Suvid. Do 
not ally yourselves with the Roach Lord. And leave the 
court before another moon grows full.”
If the characters insist on their right to continue to 
act against the prince’s wishes, he challenges them to 
a duel during the next dueling season if he perceives 
any threat to the court or his influence. If one or more 
of the characters has attempted to woo “his” succubus 
courtesan, he warns that character off in particular.
If the characters agree to stay away, the prince is 
quick to notice any breach of their promise (his lantern 
dragonettes report the event to him). Breaking their 
word is cause for a duel and, likely, for expulsion from 
the court if they lose it.
DEVELOPMENTS AFTER COMBAT
If he is defeated in combat, the Black Prince is not 
killed; the party has overcome him and earns XP 
accordingly, but he cannot be slain in his home court. 
Instead, he bows, stows his spear, and confesses, “You 
have bested me; I am your servant.” His minions, 
hounds, and sister (if any survived) cease combat as 
well, although they remain wary. Goblin servants leap 
out of nowhere to bandage the wounds of all fey and of 
those with Status of 16 or higher.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 117 ---
116
The Black Prince’s sudden change of temperament 
from raging attacker to genteel host might throw the 
characters off guard, but a successful DC 15 Wisdom 
(Insight) check makes it plain that he is sincere about 
his surrender and his newfound peaceful demeanor.
If the characters accept his peace offer, they gain 
considerable Status (a +5 increase) as soon as word 
spreads that they have “drunk claret with the prince.” If 
they refuse and attempt to continue combat, they gain 
no Status for the triumph, the prince immediately gains 
85 hit points, and he vacates the area.
Raven Assassins. If the Black Prince escapes in this 
way, he sends his “raven assassins” to attack the party 
that night and each night thereafter until such time as 
they have killed sixteen raven demons or they make him 
an apology for their ignoble behavior in the face of a 
sincere surrender.
Despite their name, these creatures are not birds, but 
rather a group of oni appropriate to the party’s size and 
level (use three oni for a hard encounter for 9th-level 
characters).
The oni enter through the window of the party’s rooms 
or break down the door, attacking by surprise for 1 
round. The last survivor of the would-be assassins flees 
to report their failure to the prince, who dispatches 
another group of assassins the next night.
Act III, Scene 7: The Hunting 
Lodge: Catching the Firebird
Minimum Status: 21 to receive an invitation, which 
includes two guests
If the Black Prince invites the party to go to Hunt’s 
Retreat, his hunting lodge, he offers to outfit the party 
with bows and boar spears to hunt for game in company 
with the elf Lord Chelessfield and two others from 
among the prince’s favorite followers, which include:
•  Kolya the Kennel Master (to control the dozen 
shadow mastiffs and coursing hounds)
•  Baron Suvid, Lord of Blades (if the characters have 
not crossed blades with him and defeated him)
•  Gwathion Everglade, the shadow fey courtier, who has 
a temper (always baiting the party)
•  Meltathraiel, the shadow fey advisor, who has a 
deep‑seated hatred of all non-fey (so he is 
irredeemably hostile toward many characters, 
which the prince finds entertaining)
The trip to the lodge is a rattling journey 
through the forest on horseback with a pack 
of shadow mastiffs and a small troop of archers 
for company. The lodge, which has a gabled roof 
painted in hound and eye designs, is large enough for 
the whole crew. At first light of the Shadow Realm’s 
morning, the hunters are awake and ready to seek out 
deer or boar among the deeps of the forest, flickering 
between the shadow realm and Margreve Forest in the 
mortal world. This occasion is a glorious chance for the 
invited characters to curry some favor with the Blood 
Royal and portray themselves in a good light. Characters 
can demonstrate skill in the chase by making successful 
DC 17 Wisdom (Survival) checks; success wins approval 
in the eyes of the prince and his companions and a +1 
increase to Status for the character.
The Boars and the Butterflies
The party encounters death butterfly swarms in the 
woods on the first day’s hunt.
The woods are filled with a cloud of silent, fluttering 
butterflies. Each of them has wings checkered black 
and white, and their motion is as a swarm or a wave.
Intelligence (Nature) DC 18—These 
are death butterflies, 
particularly notorious and 
dangerous fey swarms.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 118 ---
117
Intelligence (Nature) DC 22—This bunch of creatures is 
much more potent than a normal swarm!
ENCOUNTER CHOICES
Medium (9th-level characters)—2 greater death 
butterfly swarms
Hard (9th-level characters)—3 greater death butterfly 
swarms
Deadly (9th-level characters)—4 greater death butterfly 
swarms, and reduce the sandalwood to a 5-foot-by-
10-foot area
A nearby stack of sandalwood logs holds the swarms at 
bay if it is lit ablaze. Magical effects that burn flammable 
material set the logs on fire instantly; otherwise, it takes 
1 round to ignite the wood using burning oil or some 
other significant fuel or flame. The smoke from the 
blaze prevents the swarms from entering the squares 
surrounding the fallen logs, which is a 10-foot-by-
15-foot area. A character who succeeds on a DC 18 
Intelligence (Nature) check realizes this fact. A swarm 
must make a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw when it tries 
to enter that space, or at the start of its turn if it’s already 
there. On a failed save, it can’t enter, or it must leave the 
space immediately.
Greater Death Butterfly Swarm
Huge swarm of Tiny beasts, unaligned
Armor Class 15 (natural armor)
Hit Points 84 (13d12)
Speed 5 ft., fly 40 ft. 
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
1 (–5)	
16 (+3)	
10 (+0)	
1 (–5)	
15 (+2)	
12 (+1)
Damage Vulnerabilities cold, fire
Damage Resistances bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing
Condition Immunities charmed, frightened, grappled, 
paralyzed, petrified, prone, restrained, stunned
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 12
Languages —
Challenge 6 (2,300 XP)
Potent Poison. The death butterfly swarm’s poison affects 
corporeal undead that are otherwise immune to poison.
Swarm. The swarm can occupy another creature’s space 
and vice versa, and the swarm can move through any 
opening large enough for a Tiny butterfly. The swarm 
can’t regain hit points or gain temporary hit points.
Weight of Wings. A creature in a space occupied by a 
death butterfly swarm has its speed reduced by half, 
and must succeed on a DC 16 Dexterity saving throw 
or become blinded. Both effects end when the creature 
doesn’t share a space with the swarm at the end of the 
creature’s turn. If a creature succeeds on the saving 
throw, it is immune to the swarm’s blindness effect (but 
not the speed reduction) for 24 hours.
ACTIONS
Multiattack: The swarm makes a bite attack against 
every target in its space.
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 0 ft., one 
target. Hit: 24 (6d6 +3) piercing damage, or 13 (3d6 + 3) 
piercing damage if the swarm has been reduced to half 
of its hit points or fewer. The target also takes 17 (5d6) 
poison damage and becomes poisoned for 1d4 rounds; 
a successful DC 15 Constitution saving throw reduces 
the poison damage by half and prevents the poisoned 
condition.
Particularly vile creatures never seem to rest, often 
coming back as unliving abominations and ghastly 
spirits. Sometimes, though, these creatures do cross 
over to whatever reward awaits them, leaving behind 
tainted corpses that pass the evil on to those that feast 
on the remains.
A death butterfly swarm results when a rare breed of 
carrion-eating butterflies, drawn to the stench of decay, 
feed on the corpse of an evil creature. Individually, and 
prior to feeding on such a creature, the butterflies pose 
no threat, but afterward the driving animus forces the 
butterflies to swarm and inflict misery on all who cross 
their path.
The swarm’s changed state enables it to inflict a fast-
acting, necrotizing poison on its victims. Thus, it can 
feed immediately on carrion created with its poison. The 
oppressive evil infused in the butterflies bears down on 
those caught in the swarm’s wake, potentially paralyzing 
victims that the swarm passes over. The swarm benefits 
from this effect, fluttering around unmoving victims 
and necrotizing more and more flesh while the prey 
cannot escape.
Undead creatures, to which the death butterfly swarm 
would obviously be drawn, are not immune to a death 
butterfly swarm’s poison. Just as the swarm rots away 
a living creature, it might also dissolve an undead 
creature’s animating force. Given the choice between an 
undead and a living creature, a swarm will always attack 
the undead target. The swarm finds ghouls and ghasts to 
be particularly appealing. Because of this fact, non-good 
mages see summoning a death butterfly swarm as a 
necessary evil when battling the Empire of the Ghouls.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 119 ---
118
The Firebird
If the characters want, they can pursue more legendary 
game—the long-tailed firebird. The queen has often 
expressed a desire to receive the bird as a gift, and the 
characters might have learned of this from Intelligence 
(Investigation) checks to gather information and gossip 
(see page 57). 
FINDING THE BIRD IN THE WOODS
Locating the firebird is a skill challenge in which the 
characters must score 6 successes before they get 3 
failures. In addition to ability checks, appropriate spells 
can provide successes as well.
Strength (Athletics) or Dexterity (Acrobatics) DC 16—
Climbing trees and hills for a better view, chasing 
sounds while running along fallen tree trunks in the 
forest, leaping from branch to branch in a favored 
tree, or otherwise moving to a better position can 
enable the elusive bird to be more easily spotted. 
Alternative: Flight or casting spider climb provides a 
success.
Intelligence (Nature) or Wisdom (Survival) DC 
18—Knowing the bird’s nesting habits, likely 
food sources, and preferred foraging, roosting, 
and mating habits enable it to be more easily 
tracked in the enormous forest. 
Alternative: Casting speak with animals or 
spending a use of wild shape provides a 
success. 
Wisdom (Perception) DC 14, limit 2 successes—
Hearing the firebird’s distant song or the rush 
of its wings or seeing signs of its smoldering 
nest in a treetop are sure signs that it’s nearby.
Dexterity (Stealth) DC 17, special, does not 
contribute to success—A successful Dexterity 
(Stealth) check provides a character advantage 
on his or her next check.
Alternative: Casting silence provides advantage 
for a character’s next two checks.
If the characters succeed in the skill challenge, 
read:
You’ve spotted it! In the distance ahead of 
you is the firebird. This marvelous avian has 
the bearing of a peacock, made all the more 
majestic by its flaming fan of feathers, which 
shift through the color spectrum.
Once the firebird is found, the chase can begin!
CHASING AND CATCHING
Seeing the bird and catching it are two very different 
things. The job of catching the firebird requires netting 
it, or bringing it down by striking it without causing 
lethal injury. (The Black Prince’s hunting party has 
birding arrows and bolts, special blunt projectiles that 
impose disadvantage on attack rolls but will knock the 
firebird unconscious instead of injuring it.) Of course, 
the party might try to kill it (see “Killing the Firebird,” 
page 120), but the queen is more interested in a living 
bird as a mark of Status—no one is interested in the bird 
as food, although the feathers would find takers.
But first of all, the characters must catch up to it.
They begin in one space on the Firebird Chase map, 
and the firebird in a space directly opposite them on the 
outer edge of the map. The characters can pursue either 
clockwise or counterclockwise; the forest geometry 
around the firebird is subject to major shifts and the 
bird seems to create a sort of “chase magic” around 
itself, particularly when it moves through the central 
black circle (see below). Characters have a speed of 3 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 120 ---
119
spaces. Creatures can move diagonally on the circle map 
with no increased cost in movement. 
The exact distance covered by the spaces is left 
indeterminate. Assume that the party can group together 
or spread out easily in one space for the purpose of 
beneficial spells or features. If the party splits up, any 
touch spells or melee attacks require that the target be in 
the same space as the creature using the feature. 
The firebird flies away with its movement and the Dash 
action (traveling a total of 10 spaces) whenever the party 
comes within 6 spaces of it, and it always tries to move 
away from any creature it is aware of. The firebird can 
move into a perching position on any tree (putting it 5 
spaces above the ground) by ending its movement in that 
space. It has cover from ranged attacks while perched. 
The firebird can move through the central black circle 
out to anywhere on the edge (but not the reverse) up to 
three times during the chase. When it passes through 
the center, the forest seems to warp around the bird, 
enabling it to potentially elude pursuers. If the firebird 
passes through the black circle for a third time, it leaves 
the area of the woods near the characters, ending the 
hunt. Its birdsong can be heard fading in the distance 
for some time.
Much of the forest is difficult terrain (marked with 
brambles). Tree trunks are impassable terrain, and 
climbing is difficult: DC 13 Strength (Athletics) or 
Dexterity (Acrobatics) checks are needed for jumping 
over the logs, and Strength (Athletics) checks are 
needed for climbing the mossy trees (DC 15) or 
jumping the stream (DC 15 with a running start or DC 
20 without).
Heavily Wooded Terrain. Because of the many obstacles 
in the area, ranged weapons with the ammunition 
property have a short range of 3 spaces and a maximum 
range of 6 spaces. Ranged spell attacks and any spells 
that require line of sight to the target have a range of 6 
spaces. Nets and other thrown weapons have a range of 
1 space.
Successful Tactics. One solution is to use magical 
movement or for the characters to gather near the black 
circle and flush the firebird to the edge. Splitting up to 
herd the firebird can work as well. Once a character is 
close enough to throw a net, cast a nonlethal spell, or 
shoot a birding arrow (disadvantage on attack rolls), 
they might knock the bird down long enough to be able 
to grab it.
THE FIREBIRD (PASSIVE)
In the standard version of the hunt, the firebird does not 
engage its pursuers in combat. It has an Armor Class 
of 16 and an initiative bonus of +4. Two hits against it 
will reduce the bird to 0 hit points, whereupon it falls 
unconscious and can be caught before it revives. It also 
has the following special action:
Blinding Radiance. As a bonus action, the firebird sings 
and releases a mote of fiery brilliance, which floats up 
to 6 spaces from the bird and explodes. All those within 
the affected space must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving 
throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 5 (1d10) radiant 
damage and is both blinded and paralyzed until the 
start of the firebird’s next turn, or it takes half as much 
damage and isn’t blinded or paralyzed on a successful 
save. Note: Shadow fey find this effect disconcerting, 
and if it is used against them, they will soon abandon 
the chase (on a roll of 1–2 on 1d6 each round).
THE FIREBIRD (ACTIVE)
For a greater challenge using a firebird that fights back, 
use the statistics below.
Firebird
Small celestial, neutral good
Armor Class 16 (natural armor)
Hit Points 99 (18d6 + 36)
Speed 20 ft., fly 100 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
12 (+1)	 19 (+4)	
14 (+2)	
16 (+3)	
15 (+2)	
21 (+5)
Saving Throws Dex +6, Con +4, Int +5, Wis +4, Cha +7 
Skills Acrobatics +6, Arcana +5, Insight +4, Medicine 
+4, Nature +5, Perception +7, Religion +5
Damage Resistances lightning; bludgeoning, piercing, and 
slashing from nonmagical attacks
Damage Immunities fire
Condition Immunities charmed, frightened, invisible
Senses truesight 60 ft., passive Perception 17
Languages Celestial, Common, Elvish, Primordial, Sylvan
Challenge 4 (1,100 XP)
Innate Spellcasting. The firebird’s innate spellcasting 
ability is Charisma (spell save DC 15). It can innately cast 
the following spells, requiring no material components:
At will: guidance, purify food and drink, speak with 
animals
3/day each: charm person, cure wounds (as a 2nd-level 
spell), daylight, faerie fire, heat metal, hypnotic pattern, 
tongues
1/day each: geas, heal, reincarnate
Light of the World. The firebird’s feathers glow with a 
warm light. The creature sheds light as dim as a candle 
or as bright as a lantern. It always sheds light, and any 
feathers plucked from the creature continue to shed 
light as a torch.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 121 ---
120
Warming Presence. The firebird and any creatures within 
a 5-foot radius are immune to the effects of natural, 
environmental cold. If invited into a home or a building, 
a firebird can extend this benefit to its inhabitants no 
matter how close they are to the creature.
ACTIONS
Multiattack. The firebird makes one bite attack and two 
claw attacks.
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 5 (1d8 + 4) piercing damage.
Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 10 (2d8 + 4) slashing damage.
Blinding Ray (Recharge 5–6). The firebird can fire a 
burning ray of light from its tail feathers in a line 5 feet 
wide and up to 50 feet long. Targets in the line must 
succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or take 24 
(7d6) fire damage and become blinded for 1d4 rounds. 
A successful saving throw negates the blindness and 
reduces the damage by half.
Development: The Black Prince’s Offer
If the party captures the firebird, the Black Prince is not 
pleased. To turn things to his advantage, he offers the 
party a trade: 
The prince raises an eyebrow as he comes close to the 
firebird. 
	 “You have done remarkably well. I will reward your 
enterprise and resolve. Each of you will be given a 
lantern dragonette as a mark of my royal favor upon 
our return to the palace. In return, you will give me 
this firebird.” He nods and holds out his gloved hand.
If the party refuses to relinquish the bird, it requires a 
successful DC 20 Charisma (Persuasion) or Charisma 
(Deception) check to mollify the prince. If the check 
fails, the character who caught the firebird and possibly 
anyone else who refused to hand it over can expect a 
challenge to a duel from one of the prince’s followers or 
a challenge (in dueling season) from the prince himself. 
In addition, the characters suffer a −4 deduction to 
Status for treating the prince poorly.
If the ability check is a success, the prince does not 
challenge any characters to a duel, but he does warn the 
party not to give the bird to the queen:
“I warn you,” says the Black Prince. “It is too precious 
a thing to bandy with. Set it free, keep it in your 
chambers, but on no account give it to the queen.” 
The hunting trip ends on this note, and the group 
returns to court the next morning.
Killing the Firebird. If party kills the firebird instead 
of using non-lethal means, the killing character 
immediately suffers a −5 deduction to Status, but the 
prince gives the character a mithral mirror (2,500 gp) 
and a moonglass goblet (1,500 gp) for “good service to 
the crown.”
Act III, Scene 8: Queen’s Attention
Minimum Status: 30 or Firebird-Giver
The queen does have her favorites, but the characters 
are not among them at first—they simply have too little 
Status to be worthy of her attention. They must earn that 
attention through their actions at court.
GIFT OF THE FIREBIRD 
Players are contrary by nature and the prince is an 
arrogant bastard, so it’s quite likely the party might not 
give the captured firebird to the prince but instead to 
the queen.
As the characters approach the Great Hall or walk 
over the Bridge of Night with the firebird, make 
much of the reactions of those around them: servants 
dropping dishes, fey staring open-mouthed, and even 
well‑regarded diplomats and stone-faced courtiers 
getting wide-eyed as the characters approach the feast 
hall to present their gift.
Read the following:
The golden feathers of the firebird do more than 
merely glow in the feast hall; they seem to paint 
the chamber with gold, lightening its nocturnal 
tones to the bright colors of summer. All around it, 
the creatures of the court turn to fading, irrelevant 
shadows, dim wisps compared to the bird’s lush 
coloration of fire and blood.
Wisdom (Insight) DC 15—The Queen of Night and 
Shadow on her throne is the only one who seems 
delighted by your presence; her servants and courtiers 
are terrified.
Let the presenting character make a speech if so 
desired. With a successful DC 12 Charisma (Persuasion) 
check, this attempt goes smoothly. A failed check 
means that some courtier takes offense and threatens 
the characters (boorishly, but without summoning any 
guards):
“No mortal should dare make such a gift. It is unheard 
of! Begone!”
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 122 ---
121
When the bird is handed over to the queen, read:
The firebird squawks once and settles comfortably 
onto the queen’s wrist. She pets it once, twice, three 
times, and each time the fire in her eyes grows 
stronger. The queen smiles and says, “Oh, you have 
done well, my beloved. You have brought me a fine 
gift indeed.” Her eyes sparkle, and she waves you 
forward. “Come to me that I may whisper to you.” 
Intelligence (Arcana) DC 20—The queen has a strange, 
mystic relationship with the firebird. It is not related 
to the shadow powers of the court. Indeed, it seems 
more related to the radiant powers of the queen.
If the character who presented the bird does approach, 
take that player aside and ask him or her whether they 
want their character to become the queen’s consort and 
possibly her lover. (The same offer might be made if a 
character reaches a Status of 30 or higher.) If the answer 
is yes, the character is given a heavy golden necklace 
set with rubies (7,000 gp) and asked to stand at the 
queen’s right side. If no, he or she is dismissed with a 
rueful glance; the queen holds no long-lasting grudge, 
although her first reaction is quite negative (see below).
A New Consort
If the character accepts the offered position in the court, 
the queen is most pleased and the presenter gains a +9 
increase to Status immediately (see Table 2–2, page 41).
The queen takes the firebird to the window and 
sets it free. The courtiers whisper and bow. “You are 
dismissed. We shall retire,” says the queen, and she 
steps through a shadowy portal. Her words echo faintly 
into the hall. “Come with me, O Royal Birdcatcher.”
If the newly elevated character decides to follow the 
queen to her bedchamber, he or she is not seen again 
by the other characters. Behind the scenes, Queen 
Sarastra’s semi-divine domination turns the character 
(temporarily) into an NPC. The character dotes on the 
queen and spends no time with his or her old friends. The 
player might choose to play an NPC such as Brightspur 
(see page 69) or the roachling duelist Yikrugrak (see page 
102), or might roll up a new temporary character such as 
a shadow fey, elf, gnome, or half-elf courtier. The queen 
gives a gift of a very rare or lesser magic item to her new 
lover as a token of her delight.
As the queen’s lover, the character is essentially 
untouchable by all other fey until the queen tires of her 
new toy (in 1d6 weeks) and dumps him or her. At that 
point, the former lover must fend off 1d4 + 1 dueling 
challenges, as well as many cutting remarks and new 
sycophants, all seeking either to prove themselves 
worthy to the queen or to learn the “secret” of 
impressing her (see “Discarded Favorites” below).
DECLINING THE QUEEN 
If the character refuses to follow the queen to her 
bedchamber, the queen takes this rejection very poorly 
for several days. The character’s Status suffers a −3 
deduction, and the guards keep the character out of 
the Royal Halls by royal decree, regardless of Status. 
All other courtiers view the character as the fool 
who passed up a golden opportunity, and they snub 
the character for a few days or until he or she does 
something worthy. 
The character does, however, wind up in the good 
graces of the demon lord Akyishigal and the Black 
Prince, and might be invited by one or both to plot 
against the queen’s interests, or at least to share some 
treacherous gossip.
DISCARDED FAVORITES
If a discarded lover tries to return to the queen’s good 
graces sooner than one year after he or she has been 
dismissed, things go very poorly indeed for that 
individual. Queen Sarastra banishes her old, used up, 
worn out, or just plain no longer fancied lovers to the 
Labyrinth, perhaps even binding them into a new shape 
for her own amusement, such as a goblin or a gnome.
If the characters are smart, they might figure out that 
the various fey beggars and goblins in the maze can be 
sources of information. That is, if they don’t kill these 
denizens first.
Shards of a Broken Mind:  
The Queen’s Gambit
If the queen takes one of the characters as her 
consort, sometime during the course of their tryst 
she reveals one of her most valuable secrets: she is 
magically forestalling the Moonlit King’s return to 
power. 
The queen uses the power of the firebird to 
perpetuate the Moonlit King’s madness, though she 
doesn’t know what drove him mad in the first place. 
By doing this, she delays the turn of the courtly 
seasons and ensures that she remains in power. 
Otherwise, the seasons would turn, and the Winter 
Court would rise to power. When that happens, she 
would have to step down and surrender the throne 
to her husband, until the seasons turn once again. 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 123 ---
122
DEVELOPMENT: THE PRINCE’S RAGE 
The prince knows that the queen derives some power 
and pleasure from the firebird, and it is his plan to give 
her such a bird himself, thus foiling the ambitions of 
Akyishigal and ingratiating himself with his mother, 
who currently mistrusts him (for good reason). If the 
party does give the bird to the queen despite the prince’s 
warning, he is angry enough either to send a double-size 
group of his raven assassins (see “Raven Assassins,” page 
116) or to duel the gift-giver personally on the Bridge of 
Night. He expects to thrash them.
Regardless of the outcome of these measures, the 
Black Prince remains the characters’ enemy, sending 
messenger birds bearing news about them to the 
Moonlit King, whispering into the Well of Night 
to inform the demon Akyishigal about them, and 
encouraging Baron Suvid to destroy them in any 
manner he finds suitable.
Act IV: Royal Audiences 
and Treachery
For beauty is nothing but the beginning of terror, which 
we are still just able to endure, and we are so awed 
because it serenely disdains to annihilate us.
Every angel is terrifying.
—Rainer Maria Rilke, Duino Elegies
And when it was night, oh, as was their plight,  
The moon had gone down, the stars gave no light; 
They sobbed and they sighed, and bitterly cried 
Then the poor little babes, they lay down and died.
—“Babes in the Wood” (traditional English folksong)
Once the characters have gained higher-ranked 
connections (or intimidated and enchanted the right 
enemies), they gain more access to power. The first 
character to the top gains an audience with the queen 
in which she deigns to speak of the king, whose name 
is rarely spoken except in fearful whispers in the times 
when the queen rules. The encounters in this act presume 
that the characters have reached 9th or 10th level.
Act IV, Scene 1:  
Meeting the Queen
When a single character has reached Status of 26 or 
higher, he or she is invited to an audience with the 
queen, at the character’s earliest convenience. By 
making a successful DC 17 Intelligence (History) check, 
the character knows that a courtly ritual is required to 
visit the queen. This involves wearing one’s best finery, 
lighting a candle in the Shrine to the Shadow Gods 
(area 25), and walking across the bridge to the Royal 
Chambers. There, one climbs the 1,000 steps up to the 
Queen’s Audience Chamber, eventually walking out 
onto a cloud above the twilight gloom below.
Characters of Status 21 or higher who have not been 
specifically invited can trail along as friends and 
confidantes of the invited character. They are not 
announced (see below).
Characters of Status 16–20 can attend the invited 
character as servants or hirelings of the invited character, 
so long as they bear no weapons and wear no armor 
or jewels. They may not speak, on pain of immediate 
expulsion—the floor literally vanishes beneath the 
expelled character, and he or she falls 100 feet down to 
the Bridge of Night, landing near the Eastern Gate and 
taking 10d6 bludgeoning damage from the fall. Survivors 
suffer an immediate loss of all earned Status.
Characters of Status of 15 or lower may not enter the 
presence of the queen except by stealth or deception 
(disguising themselves as someone of higher Status). 
If their pretense is discovered, they are expelled 
immediately through the floor, falling and suffering the 
loss of all Status as described above.
The stairs up to the audience chamber are not quite 
endless; it takes most of an hour to reach the top. 
Countless stars shine above the audience chamber, 
and the floor is covered in cloudlike mist. The chamber 
seems to be entirely outside the palace, hundreds of 
feet up in the sky. There are no walls, just a throne 
of dark lapis lazuli flecked with gold. A curtain of 
shadows obscures the throne’s occupant, though she 
clearly wears a shining crown set with stars. A small 
herald steps forward and announces you.
ANNOUNCING THE CHARACTERS
A small shadow fey herald with a large voice announces 
the characters. The queen is announced as soon as the 
door is opened, and the characters enter in order of 
precedence (by Status). The queen is announced thus:
A fluid voice echoes from all around. “You enter the 
presence of Her Celestial and Royal Majesty, Sarastra 
Aestruum, Queen of Night and Magic, Duchess of 
the Heavens, Countess of Thorn, Mistress of Air and 
Darkness, Lady of the Summer Palace and Bride of 
Shadows. Attend her well.” 
	 A small fey herald turns, and the curtain of shadows 
ripples. “Your majesty, may I present to you the invited 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 124 ---
123
guest _______________, the honorable mortal and visitor 
who has been acquitted most passing well.”
Give the name of the character with the highest Status 
together with any title and noteworthy accomplishments 
including duels won, courtesans wooed, and monsters 
slain recently. Then announce any other character with a 
Status of 21 or higher, giving a shorter title and perhaps 
a single accomplishment (“Seducer of the Succubus” or 
“Confidant of the Ravens”). Disregard characters with 
Status of 20 or lower, referring to them only as “servants 
and other mortal followers not of this realm.”
The veil parts to reveal the queen, a beautiful female 
shadow fey with black hair below a crown of mithral 
and glowing starstones. Her cloak is pure black, 
and her dress of deep indigo is set with numberless 
diamonds. Four lantern dragonettes curl around her 
feet, darting forward and hissing. The queen speaks a 
word, and they disappear beneath her throne.  
	 She lifts a hand and waves you forward. “You have 
cut quite a swath through my court. The lantern 
dragonettes have been full of stories about you. I find 
your mortal ways charming, truly I do.”
Wisdom (Insight) DC 13—The queen is totally 
schmoozing you; her lack of sincerity isn’t even 
covered up that well. It’s all a matter of etiquette.
THE QUEEN EXPECTS AN ANSWER
Even though the queen is buttering up the party, she 
does have a vested interest in listening to the characters’ 
case to some degree. After all, they’ve been mucking 
about her court, and her lantern dragonettes have told 
all sorts of stories of what the characters have been up 
to. The party has proven to be entertaining, and might 
be capable of entering the Spiral Maze and defeating the 
Moonlit King and bringing his Orb of Rule back to her. 
The matter of the shadow fey’s takeover of Zobeck is a 
secondary concern to the queen, although she is much 
too smart to admit that it is a bargaining chip for her.
Though she never says so directly, the queen hints 
broadly that she will give up her claim to Zobeck if the 
characters enter the Spiral Maze, fetch a mark of the 
king’s rule, and return it to her: his buttons, perhaps, or 
his Orb of Rule.
The queen won’t give just anyone such a promise. The 
characters have to pass her questions and prove their 
worthiness first: clever but not too clever, brave but not 
impudent, and ingratiating without ass-kissing. It’s a 
fine line.
CONVINCING THE QUEEN
Gaining the queen’s confidence is a skill challenge in 
which the characters must score 5 successes before they 
get 3 failures.
Charisma (Deception) DC 20, limit 1 success—A smooth 
talker generally wins some points with the queen for 
bravado.
Charisma (Persuasion) DC 18, +2 per additional 
attempt—Charisma (Persuasion) smooths the way 
with the queen, but the more you use it, the tougher 
Her Celestial Majesty becomes. She likes to make 
diplomats sweat.
Charisma (Intimidation) DC 17, limit 1 success—
Gusto is considered a sign of bravado, courage, and 
aggressiveness. Too much of it, though, is merely 
uncouth.
Intelligence (Arcana) DC 23, limit 1 success—As the 
Queen of Night and Magic, Her Celestial Majesty 
knows almost everything that there is to know 
about the arcane. Even when she doesn’t, she finds it 
extremely annoying to be corrected on the subject.
Intelligence (History) DC 20, +1 per additional 
attempt—Some knowledge of the queen’s reign 
and her king’s checkered past is a boon. Too much 
knowledge of the past makes the queen doubt the 
speaker’s trustworthiness and question whether, 
perhaps, the speaker knows too much.
Intelligence (Investigation) DC 19—Well-informed and 
gossipy visitors are always welcome. The queen is 
keenly interested in an outsider’s view of her court’s 
politics to compare with her own.
Intelligence (Nature) DC 17, limit 1 success—Feeding or 
playing with the lantern dragonettes and making it 
clear that the creatures are pleased with this attention 
is a sign that the queen takes seriously—though once 
a character does this, the queen dismisses her lantern 
dragonettes to fly off and chase birds. Conversely, 
being nipped by a lantern dragonette (getting a failure 
on this check) is a mark of weakness.
Intelligence (Religion) DC 20, limit 2 successes—Terms 
and hymns of praise for the Goddess of Night and 
Darkness and insights into the divine are somewhat of 
interest to the queen. She fears anyone who knows too 
much on this topic, however, seeing them as a potential 
rival; she discourages religiosity among her court.
Wisdom (Insight) DC 20—Who understands the whims 
of an ageless and powerful monarch? She seeks to 
balance many interests beyond her own, and a wise 
character can see her perspective.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 125 ---
124
Success
If the characters succeed in the skill challenge, Queen 
Sarastra is willing to forget about sending a statthalter 
to Zobeck. The queen agrees not to send an emissary to 
root out disloyalty in Zobeck for, say, 100 years—but only 
under certain conditions. These conditions amount to “If 
the king also agrees to it. Or if his reign should end.”
She gives each eligible character a ceremonial dagger 
as a mark of favor (unannounced characters and those 
who serve the Lord of Roaches or the Black Prince’s 
faction do not receive one). Read:
Sheathed in a charcoal gray scabbard engraved with 
the queen’s owl emblem, this jeweled dagger is an 
extremely well-made piece. When in shadow, this 
double-edged blade can be seen to be engraved with 
bloodred fey runes.
The daggers serve as keys to the labyrinth; one can be 
used to unlock the gate at the bottom of the hidden stair 
(area 42). Once the bearer arrives at the Tower Beacon, 
the daggers are still worth 1,000 gp apiece, and a +2 
increase to Status, if the characters decide to return to 
the court at a later date.
If a member of the party has a Status of 25 or higher, 
she also gives that character a piece of unsolicited advice 
about the nature of the king’s servants, saying: “Heed me 
well, for I shall say this but once: do not attend the king 
too closely, for his presence is dangerous, and he draws 
his strength and his celestial voice from the moonlight. 
Return with his seal and his word, and you shall leave 
my kingdom without harm or hindrance.”
Failure
If the party fails in their attempt to sway the queen, read:
“You tread upon my patience. You impose on my 
hospitality and discomfit my champion. You will now 
amuse me with the dueling I have heard so much of. 
Champion, step forth!” 
	 And you see a familiar set of armor step forward, 
but this figure’s visor is up, and there is a black skull 
within the helm, its eyes bright sparks as cold as a 
winter moon. A cloak of owl feathers hangs from the 
champion’s shoulders, and it salutes you with twin 
swords.
YOU SAY THE WORST THINGS
Roll initiative. The party must fight the queen’s 
champion. Fortunately for the party, the queen doesn’t 
take a direct part in the battle—she would easily slay 
them all, and she knows it. She influences the battle 
through use of her lair actions, however, as well as the 
holes in the clouds (see below). 
If the characters disable the holes in the clouds, the 
queen is content to watch the battle, using her remaining 
lair actions to stun and wall off any characters who dare 
to threaten her. 
ENCOUNTER CHOICES
Hard (9th-level characters)—the queen’s lair actions, 1 
monolith champion, 1 shadow fey guardian, 1 hole in 
the clouds
Hard (10th-level characters)— the queen’s lair actions, 
1 monolith champion, 3 shadow fey guardians, 1 hole 
in the clouds
Hard (11th-level characters)— the queen’s lair actions, 
1 monolith champion, 4 shadow fey guardians, 2 holes 
in the clouds
Illumination. The audience chamber is bathed in dim 
light from perpetual starlight and lantern dragonettes.
The Queen’s Lair Actions
On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the Queen 
of Night and Magic takes a lair action to cause one of 
the following effects; the Queen of Night and Magic 
can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row:
•  The queen wills darkness to overpower the light. All 
bright light sources in the lair shed only dim light to 
their normal bright light radius, and dim light sources 
are extinguished. This lasts until the queen dismisses 
the effect or dies.
•  An opaque wall of writhing shadows springs up from 
a solid surface within 120 feet of the queen. The wall 
Option: The Queen’s Champion  
Wears a Stolen Face
This variant of the queen’s champion looks exactly 
like one of the characters; ideally, this is the same 
character who had a shadow double appear and 
talk with the party for some time (see Act II, Scene 
3). In addition to its other powers, the champion can 
use one of the features of the character it appears 
like, mimicking that ability as a reaction when the 
character uses it. If killed, the shadow creature 
still resembles the character for a moment, before 
becoming an empty suit or cloak once more.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 126 ---
125
is up to 60 feet long, 10 feet high, and 5 feet thick. 
Each creature in the area must make a successful DC 
15 Dexterity saving throw or take 18 (4d8) necrotic 
damage. Creatures in the wall’s space are pushed 5 
feet out of the wall’s space, appearing on whichever 
side of the wall they choose. A creature can move 
through the wall, but the semimaterial shadow 
resists intrusion. For every foot a creature travels 
through the wall, it must spend 4 feet of movement. 
Furthermore, any creature that, during its own turn, 
occupies any part of the wall’s space takes 18 (4d8) 
necrotic damage, or half damage with a successful DC 
15 Constitution saving throw. Each 10-foot section of 
wall has AC 5, 15 hit points, vulnerability to radiant 
damage, resistance to bludgeoning and piercing 
damage, and immunity to cold, poison, and psychic 
damage. The wall lasts until the queen uses this lair 
action again, or until she dies.
•  The queen targets one creature within 60 feet of her 
and assails its mind with visions of hopelessness 
and despair. The creature must succeed on a DC 15 
Wisdom saving throw or be stunned until initiative 
count 20 on the next round.
In this chamber, the queen has an additional lair action: 
•  The queen can move a hole in the clouds to a space 
within 20 feet of the hole’s current position. Any 
creatures in the hole’s new space must succeed on a 
DC 15 Dexterity saving throw as described below.
Holes in the Clouds
There are holes in the solid cloudstuff that forms 
the floor of the queen’s audience chamber. 
Insubstantial mist fills the holes, blending with the 
surrounding tangible floor. The holes are magical 
traps. A successful DC 17 Wisdom (Perception) 
check reveals the danger. The holes are 5 feet in 
diameter, and lead to a dizzying plummet to the 
courts below. 
A creature that walks over a hole must make 
a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed 
save, it falls into the hole, but catches itself on 
the edge. While hanging, the creature has 
disadvantage on attack rolls, and attack rolls 
against it have advantage. If the saving throw 
fails by 5 or more, the creature falls 100 feet 
to the staircase leading up from the courts, 
takes 35 (10d6) bludgeoning damage, and 
lands prone.
A creature can disable a hole in the floor 
by making a successful DC 20 Intelligence 
(Arcana) check, or successfully casting 
dispel magic against DC 17. A disabled 
hole fills with solid mist and becomes a normal part of 
the floor. 
Monolith Champion
Large construct, unaligned
Armor Class 17 (natural armor)
Hit Points 102 (12d10 + 36)
Speed 10 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
19 (+4)	 12 (+1)	
16 (+6)	
10 (+0)	
10 (+0)	 10 (+0)
Damage Immunities poison; bludgeoning, piercing, 
and slashing from nonmagical weapons that aren’t 
adamantine
Condition Immunities charmed, exhaustion, frightened, 
paralyzed, poisoned
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 10
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 127 ---
126
Languages Elvish, Umbral
Challenge 8 (3,900 XP)
Blatant Dismissal. While in a fey court or castle, a 
monolith champion that scores a successful hit with 
its greatsword can try to force the substitution of the 
target with a shadow double. The target must succeed 
on a DC 14 Charisma saving throw or become invisible, 
silent, and paralyzed, while an illusory version of itself 
remains visible and audible—and under the monolith 
champion’s control, shouting for a retreat or the like. 
Outside fey locales, this ability does not function.
Fey Flame. The ritual powering a monolith champion 
grants it an inner flame that it can use to enhance 
its weapon or its fists with extra fire or cold damage, 
depending on the construct’s needs.
ACTIONS
Multiattack. The champion makes two greatsword 
attacks or two slam attacks.
Greatsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., 
one target. Hit: 14 (4d6 + 4) slashing damage plus 11 
(2d10) cold or fire damage.
Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) bludgeoning damage plus 11 
(2d10) cold or fire damage.
Shadow Fey Guardian
Large humanoid (elf), neutral evil
Armor Class 15 (chain shirt)
Hit Points 110 (13d10 + 39)
Speed 30 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
18 (+4)	 14 (+2)	
16 (+3)	
6 (–2)	
14 (+2)	 8 (–1)
Saving Throws Str +6, Con +5
Skills Athletics +6, Perception +4
Condition Immunities charmed, frightened
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 19 (see 
Shadow’s Vigil)
Languages Common, Elvish, Umbral
Challenge 4 (1,100 XP)
Fey Ancestry. Magic can’t put the shadow fey guardian 
to sleep.
Innate Spellcasting. The shadow fey’s innate spellcasting 
ability is Charisma. It can cast the following spell 
innately, requiring no material components: 
1/day: misty step (when in shadows, dim light, or 
darkness only)
Shadow’s Vigil. The shadow fey has advantage on 
Wisdom (Perception) checks (included in its passive 
Perception), and magical darkness does not inhibit its 
darkvision.
Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the shadow 
fey has disadvantage on attack rolls and on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks that rely on sight. 
Traveler in Darkness. The shadow fey has advantage 
on Intelligence (Arcana) checks made to know about 
shadow roads and shadow magic spells or items. 
ACTIONS
Multiattack. The guardian makes two pike attacks.
Pike. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 10 ft., one 
target. Hit: 15 (2d10 + 4) piercing damage.
Javelin. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, 
reach 5 ft. or range 30/120, one target. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) 
piercing damage.
REACTIONS
Protect. The shadow fey guardian imposes disadvantage 
on an attack roll against an ally within 5 feet. To do so, 
the guardian must be wielding a melee weapon. 
Development. If the party defeats the monolith armor, 
the queen is impressed and immediately proclaims one 
of the characters as her new champion and Keeper of the 
Seals of the Realm. As the character’s first responsibility, 
he or she must visit the Moonlit King and gain his 
approval to abandon the fey claim to the city. The queen 
doesn’t entirely expect the character to return.
If the chosen character refuses the title as the queen’s 
new champion, the party is immediately dropped 
through the cloud floor of the chamber (falling 1,000 
feet to the ground far below the courts, but bouncing off 
the shadow bridge to take “only” 10d6 damage).
Depending on the circumstances and the danger that 
the queen feels the characters present to the realm, 
she might salute them and drop them into the maze 
(without damaging them), or she might banish them 
from the Shadow Realm; thereafter all castings of the 
tread the Niflheim Road spell simply release shadow 
beasts (see page 128) against the characters.
In this second case, as every hand is turned against 
them, the characters’ mission has failed. The statthalter 
soon arrives to seize control of the city of Zobeck, and 
the rule of the shadow fey is reestablished.
The queen hopes the characters will kill the king—
whom the fey believe cannot be slain—through some 
mortal trick; if the audience turns into a combat session, 
this does not mean that her goal has changed. Indeed, 
regardless of whether the fight turns against her or the 
party is defeated, she tells the characters that she will 
give them what they want—but doing so requires the 
acknowledgement, or at least the witnessed consent, of 
her royal husband.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 128 ---
127
She grants them permission to visit the king’s tower 
and considers herself lucky no matter what happens 
thereafter. If the characters never come back, good 
riddance to annoying visitors. If they find the Moonlit 
King’s tower and get his signature or permission, then 
the queen hopes that she can use this concession of 
territory against her husband at some future date.
Act IV, Scene 2:  
Welcome to the Labyrinth
Once the characters enter the Spiral Maze from the 
hidden stairs in the northeastern section of the palace 
(area 42), they quickly see that the maze is incredibly 
large, taking up huge swaths of the forest, and is filled 
with dark, thorny hedges and wide-open avenues 
that twist and curl in all directions. Worse, it is dark 
and extremely unfriendly (see the “Conditions in the 
Labyrinth” sidebar).
Most parties will make their way over time toward the 
Tower of the Moon, where the king is being held. The 
maze is quite deadly, though, for the queen does not 
want many visitors to find her husband (the situation 
would be too dangerous if his partisans were to have 
ready access to the king).
This first encounter is a nesting place for the lantern 
dragonettes, which is protected by a trap that they and 
their shadow beast guardians never trigger.
And of course, if the characters watch the glowing 
brazier’s light, they are immobilized and hypnotized 
when the shadow beasts come out of the shadows. . . .
The maze’s passage opens up ahead, and bright lights 
flicker in some sort of clearing. A dozen of the small 
lantern dragonettes are warming themselves around a 
huge brass brazier.
Passive Perception (contested by the shadow beasts’ 
Dexterity (Stealth) check)—The shadows you see don’t 
come entirely from the fire and the dragonettes; the 
walls of the maze conceal large shadowy creatures, 
just barely out of sight.
If the characters approach within 50 feet, the 
dragonettes all fly to their nests and hide from the 
ensuing combat. The shadow beasts step forward out 
of the black walls of the maze, surprising any creature 
whose passive Perception failed to beat their Stealth 
check.
CONDITIONS IN THE LABYRINTH
The purpose of the labyrinth is to protect and 
sequester the king during the winter, or the queen 
in those rare seasons when the king is ascendant. 
Entering it requires flight, powerful magic to unlock 
the wards on the maze, or the use of the key-daggers 
that the queen holds and might give as gifts to 
worthy visitors (see Convincing the Queen, page 123).
The queen considers other shadow fey the biggest 
threats to her rule, so the labyrinth is built to be most 
difficult for shadow fey, not for mortal characters: 
radiant damage, painfully bright light near the tower, 
the need to carry supplies, and so forth. The place is a 
nightmare to the shadow fey, as no shadows can ever 
appear around the tower, because all of it glows.
Climbing the Walls. A character can climb the 
crumbling, thorny, mossy, or slick walls of the Spiral 
Maze with a successful DC 20 Strength (Athletics) 
check, failure indicates a fall for 2d6 bludgeoning 
damage. The walls are made of shadowstuff, black 
wood, bone, crumbling stone, and other materials; 
they stand about 10 feet high.
Getting atop the walls doesn’t help very much for 
scouting because of the size of the maze. The climber 
can see the glow of the King’s Tower, but doesn’t find 
out much about how to get there. Because the walls of 
the maze are often 50 feet thick and the passages as 
much as 20 to 30 feet across, it doesn’t save much time 
to climb. The top of the walls are difficult terrain and 
treacherous due to thorns and jagged outcroppings.
Never a Moment’s Peace. Resting in the maze 
is difficult or impossible: frequent disturbances 
include insect swarms, animated hedge creatures, 
wandering mystic eyeballs, lantern dragonettes, and 
disembodied crying voices. Characters who attempt 
to enter an extradimensional space, such as by a 
rope trick spell, find that the passage simply loops 
back into the maze at the place where it opened. The 
conditions don’t significantly improve for those within 
the dome of a Leomund’s tiny hut spell, though it at 
least ensures that the party won’t be attacked, and 
short rests become possible. 
Be sure to describe the distracting, unsettling nature 
of the labyrinth early to give the party a clue that long 
rests won’t be possible.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 129 ---
128
ENCOUNTER CHOICES
Medium (9th-level characters)—1 pyrohypnosis 
brazier (trap), 2 shadow beasts
Hard (9th-level characters)—1 pyrohypnosis brazier 
(trap), 3 shadow beasts
Deadly (10th-level characters)—1 pyrohypnosis 
brazier (trap), 4 shadow beasts
Pyrohypnosis Brazier
The brazier in the center of the chamber is a magical 
trap. A humanoid that starts its turn within 30 feet 
of the brazier and that can see it must succeed on a 
DC 14 Wisdom saving throw or be charmed until the 
start of its next turn. While charmed in this way, the 
creature is incapacitated, its speed is reduced to 0 and 
it can’t benefit from increases to its speed, and it has 
disadvantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks. The effect 
ends early if a charmed creature takes damage. 
A character who examines the brazier from afar 
and succeeds on a DC 15 Intelligence (Arcana) check 
identifies the danger. The brazier can be disabled with a 
successful DC 15 Intelligence (Arcana) check, or with a 
successful casting of dispel magic against DC 13. 
Shadow Beast
Medium fey, chaotic evil
Armor Class 15 
Hit Points 90 (12d8 + 36)
Speed 0 ft., fly 40 ft. (hover)
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
6 (–2)	
20 (+5)	
17 (+3)	
14 (+2)	
14 (+2)	 19 (+4)
Saving Throws Dex +7, Con +6
Skills Stealth +7
Damage Resistances acid, cold, fire, lightning, thunder; 
bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing from nonmagical 
attacks 
Damage Immunities necrotic, poison
Condition Immunities charmed, exhaustion, grappled, 
paralyzed, petrified, poisoned, prone, restrained
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 12
Languages Common, Elvish, Umbral, Void Speech
Challenge 7 (2,900 XP)
Incorporeal Movement. The shadow beast can move 
through other creatures and objects as if they were 
difficult terrain. It takes 5 (1d10) force damage if it ends 
its turn inside an object.
Innate Spellcasting. The shadow beast’s innate 
spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 15). It can 
innately cast the following spells, requiring no material 
components: 
3/day each: fear, telekinesis
Magic Resistance. The shadow beast has advantage on 
saving throws against spells and other magical effects. 
Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the shadow beast 
has disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks that rely on sight.
ACTIONS
Multiattack. The shadow beast makes three attacks: one 
with its bite and two with its claws.
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
creature. Hit: 14 (2d8 + 5) piercing damage. 
Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
creature. Hit: 16 (2d10 + 5) slashing damage. 
Shadow Push (Recharge 5–6). The shadow beast buffets 
opponents with a gale of animated shadows in a 15-foot 
cone. Any creatures in the area must succeed on a DC 
15 Strength saving throw or be pushed back 10 feet and 
knocked prone.
Developments
Demon Lord Appears—If the party has not met and 
defeated the Demon Lord of Roaches, Akyishigal 
appears here with its roachling servants shortly after 
the party has rested (or perhaps after they uncover its 
hidden treasure cache; see below). It demands that the 
party steal the King’s Orb of Rule and surrender the orb 
to it if they succeed in the encounter at the tower.
Dragonettes Speak—If the party succeeds in this 
encounter without killing a single lantern dragonette, 
the glowing little dragons speak to the and spill all 
the secrets they know. (You can use this opportunity 
to provide information to characters who have, shall 
we say, failed to court the courtiers and lack sufficient 
investigative or persuasive skill.)
Treasure
If the characters know about the hidden treasure cache 
from speaking with Yikrugrak (see page 102), they 
can find it easily, buried under the hedge where the 
lantern dragons roost most heavily. If the party wasn’t 
told about the hidden cache of treasure, someone 
must succeed on a DC 21 Wisdom (Perception) or 
Intelligence (Investigation) check to spot the disturbed 
earth where it lies buried.
Either way, it takes 1 hour to dig up the treasure from 
beneath the empty chest marked on the map (or half 
that time if the party is carrying a shovel). The treasure, 
two potions of superior healing and a staff of healing, is 
very useful later in the maze against the eye golem or 
the Moonlit King. 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 130 ---
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 131 ---
130
The space behind the chest is a private, tented 
sanctuary, the only place where the characters can 
manage a long rest while in the maze. When the 
sanctuary is used once, its magic fades and it cannot 
be used again unless the party leaves the maze and 
reenters it.
While the party digs for treasure, arcane eyes appear 
in the walls of the maze and can be found in the bottom 
of the brazier’s coals, foreshadowing the danger in the 
eye golem encounter (see page 132).
Act IV, Scene 3: The Hedge Dryad
The winding path reveals a hedge wall with an 
arching vine trellis covered in thick and vibrant black-
speckled plants. Beyond the archway, a short series 
of steps lead down into an elaborate hedge maze. 
The labyrinth gives way to the darker shadows of the 
tangled ivy that looms overhead and presses down 
like the closing fist of some leafy titan.
Inside the hedge labyrinth, characters find twists and 
turns. Have them make Intelligence (Investigation), 
Wisdom (Survival), and Wisdom (Perception) 
checks to navigate the maze, and describe their 
travels, dead ends, and backtrackings while creating 
a sense of tension. Remind them of the urgency of 
their travel and that there is no opportunity to take 
a long rest. Eventually they arrive at the duskthorn 
dryad’s garden.
The maze opens into a wide clearing. Four gaunt, 
trollish figures, recognizable as part of a topiary, are 
frozen in mid-stride, dancing around a great central 
tree. Dark, thorny vines cover the lower trunk of the 
tree. Its upper trunk is dead, with pale and barren 
limbs that reach into the dusky sky.
The topiary is actually a pack of trolls that the 
duskthorn dryad caught and reduced to skeletons. 
Each is coated with vines, turning it into a mindless 
protector controlled by the magic imbued within the 
troll hearts that are kept in a hollow of the dead tree.
The characters must kill the trolls and the dryad, 
or simply slay all the hearts in the tree, which 
destroys the trolls and sends the dryad fleeing. The 
hedge closes behind the party as they enter; the 
apparent opening on the far side of the deadwood 
tree is an illusion.
HEART OF THE DEADWOOD
The hearts of the once-troll guardians pulsate within 
the hollows of the great, ivy-coated tree at the center of 
the glade. Foul magic flows from the long tendrils and 
animates the vine-coated skeletons. The characters can 
destroy a heart and put a vine troll skeleton to rest by 
undertaking a skill challenge and getting 4 successes 
before 3 failures. The challenge is repeated for each 
skeleton present in the encounter (see below).
Dexterity (Acrobatics) DC 11; Strength (Athletics) or 
Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) DC 10—You scale the tree 
to remove a heart from one of the hollows, severing 
its connection to a troll.
Intelligence (Arcana) or Wisdom (Medicine) DC 16—You 
determine the specific place where a vine is linked to 
an ensorcelled troll heart.
Intelligence (Arcana) DC 18, Intelligence (Nature) DC 
18, Intelligence (Investigation) DC 10, or Wisdom 
(Perception) DC 16—You realize that the umbilical 
vines heal too quickly to be cut away in stages and 
must be torn out completely.
Overall Success: The troll attuned to a specific heart is 
destroyed.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 132 ---
131
Overall Failure: The heart receives a surge of magical 
essence, and the troll attuned to it can make one attack 
as a reaction.
ENCOUNTER CHOICES
Hard (10th-level characters)—1 vine troll skeleton, 1 
duskthorn dryad
Deadly (11th-level characters)—2 vine troll skeletons, 
1 duskthorn dryad
Deadly (13th-level characters)—3 vine troll skeletons, 
1 duskthorn dryad
Duskthorn Dryad
Medium fey, chaotic neutral
Armor Class 17 (natural armor)
Hit Points 77 (14d8 + 14)
Speed 30 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
10 (+0)	 20 (+5)	
13 (+1)	
14 (+2)	
15 (+2)	 24 (+7)
Saving Throws Con +3, Wis +4
Skills Animal Handling +4, Deception +9, Nature +6, 
Perception +4, Persuasion +9, Stealth +7
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 14
Languages Common, Elvish, Sylvan, Umbral
Challenge 3 (700 XP)
Innate Spellcasting. The dryad’s innate spellcasting 
ability is Charisma (spell save DC 17). She can innately 
cast the following spells, requiring no material 
components: 
At will: dancing lights, druidcraft
3/day each: charm person, entangle, invisibility,  
magic missile
1/day each: barkskin, counterspell, dispel magic,  
fog cloud, shillelagh, suggestion, wall of thorns
Magic Resistance. The dryad has advantage on saving 
throws made against spells and other magical effects. 
Speak with Beasts and Plants. The dryad can 
communicate with beasts and plants as if they shared a 
language.
Tree Stride (1/Turn). The dryad can use 10 feet of 
movement to magically step into one dead tree within 
her reach and emerge from a second dead tree within 
60 feet of the first tree, appearing in an unoccupied 
space within 5 feet of the second tree. Both trees must 
be Large or larger. 
Tree Dependent. The dryad is mystically bonded to her 
duskthorn vines and must remain within 300 yards of 
them or become poisoned. For every 24 hours she 
remains out of range of her vines, her Constitution is 
reduced by 1d6. If the dryad’s Constitution is reduced 
to 0, she dies. Once the dryad is within range of her 
vines again, she regains all lost Constitution when she 
finishes a long rest. The dryad can bond with new vines 
by performing a 24-hour ritual. 
ACTIONS
Dagger. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, 
reach 5 ft. or range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d4 + 5) 
piercing damage.
Longbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, range 
150/600 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (1d8 + 5) piercing damage.
Vine Troll Skeleton
Large plant, unaligned
Armor Class 16 (natural armor)
Hit Points 119 (14d10 + 42)
Speed 30 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
20 (+5)	
12 (+1)	
16 (+3)	
6 (–2)	
8 (–1)	
5 (–3)
Saving Throws Con +7
Damage Resistances bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing 
from nonmagical attacks
Damage Immunities poison
Condition Immunities deafened, exhaustion, poisoned
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 9
Languages —
Challenge 9 (5,000 XP)
Regeneration. The vine troll skeleton regains 5 hit 
points at the start of its turn if it is within 10 feet of the 
duskthorn dryad’s vines and it hasn’t taken acid or fire 
damage since its previous turn. The skeleton dies only if 
it starts its turn with 0 hit points and doesn’t regenerate, 
or if the duskthorn dryad that created it dies, or if the 
troll’s heart inside the tree is destroyed.
ACTIONS
Multiattack. The vine troll skeleton makes one bite 
attack and two claw attacks.
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 21 (3d10 + 5) piercing damage.
Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 18 (3d8 + 5) slashing damage.
The duskthorn dryad stays close to the central tree 
unless the adventurers bypass its defenders; then she 
uses Tree Stride in an attempt to escape. She uses her 
wall of thorns and entangle spells to hinder enemies 
while trying to stay close to her allies, so she can grant 
them the benefit of her other spells.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 133 ---
132
DEVELOPMENT
As the last troll dies, the dryad fades into the ground 
along with all the surrounding vines. The way out is 
suddenly exposed. An exit appears in the shadowy core 
of the tree itself—a passage leading down and out! 
Treasure
Within the space beneath the fallen tree are revealed a 
brazier of solid, carved red gemstone (worth 7,500 gp), 
and 1,000 gp in coins of the Shadow Realm.
Act IV, Scene 4:  
Lost Children and Eyeless Beggars
This is a two-part encounter with a blinded mother and 
daughter who are lost in the maze. It foreshadows the 
arrival of the eye golem. These unfortunates have gained 
blindsight from their years in the maze, yet they are 
cursed never to be able to find one another.
Wisdom (Perception) DC 13—You hear a woman’s voice 
up ahead, speaking Elvish. She seems to be weeping 
or distressed, calling out, “I hear you, little one! I’m 
not far away.”
Let the characters make whatever preparations they 
like. If these acts take longer than 2 rounds, read:
A bedraggled woman wearing layers of rags stumbles 
out of one of the maze’s side passages. Her hands trace 
a path along the right-hand side of the hedge, and her 
eyes are entirely missing. “Who’s there?” she says.
The woman’s name is Ardevallissen Thiomoire. She 
has lost her eyes, to “a monster,” and also has become 
separated from her daughter, Helliboshe, who is also 
blind. The two seek each other despite knowing that a 
curse keeps them apart.
To help mother and child find one another, the party 
must perform a special ritual, which requires slaying the 
eye golem and using its largest eye as a component for 
the ritual. (Once the golem is slain, a DC 17 Intelligence 
(Arcana) check is all that is required to successfully 
perform the ritual.) This eye is also a potentially 
valuable treasure, however (see below).
Development. If the characters ignore the Thiomoires’ 
plight, they might meet other eyeless beggars who were 
also thrown into the maze to suffer: the famous shadow 
fey duelist Dax the Hook-Handed, the brownie painter 
Sollerveg Toma, the duchess Loirachne who refused 
the Black Prince’s advances, and so forth—innocent 
and guilty alike. All are eyeless, pale, and terrified; all 
are reluctant to blame the king and queen for their 
suffering, although they might confess their “crimes” if 
plied with DC 14 Charisma checks. There are sixteen 
such beggars who serve the eye golem in exchange for 
protection from other creatures in the Spiral Maze. 
The mother, Ardevallissen, is a disgraced noble who 
does not serve the golem; instead, she is under a curse 
that protects her but prevents her from ever finding 
her lost child. She begs the characters to help her find 
her child, or failing that, to retrieve her eyes from the 
golem. Ardevallissen claims that the golem serves as an 
ever-watchful bodyguard of the Moonlit King (and she’s 
right, though the creature is older than that).
Treasure
Ardevallissen knows things from her long wanderings 
in the maze. She shares her most valuable information 
if the party helps her by recovering her eyes from the 
golem as outlined above.
She knows that the Moonlit King is either partially 
or wholly mad, and that all those who visit him 
are likewise mad: this is why his servants are often 
enormously powerful derro, who thrive on madness, 
or demons and elementals, who seem likewise to suffer 
no ill effects from the king’s presence. For the fey and 
others, she knows, the secret to avoiding this madness is 
the application of a simple binding charm involving the 
use of holly and a firebird’s feather (500 gp). This charm 
grants advantage on saving throws against the king’s 
madness aura (see “Tower of the Moon” on page 136).
Act IV, Scene 5: Eyes in the Dark 
The labyrinth is a trap for the enemies of the Blood 
Royal, and fey are not infrequently banished to the maze 
for a time. Most of the fey survive their punishment, but 
much darker and more dangerous things are banished 
here permanently—things from long, long ago, things 
that even the fey want kept out of sight. One of these 
is the eye golem, a creature that gains strength by 
absorbing the eyeballs plucked from those who have 
displeased the queen.
The maze opens into a clearing that has a ramp 
leading up to the top of the walls. Scattered around 
the area are several shadow fey, goblins, and elves, all 
dressed in rags and all missing their eyes.  
	 Behind them stands a giant creature of great muscle 
and marble-white skin that almost glows in the light 
of the tower. It is at least ten feet tall, and its skin is 
covered with real eyes as well as tattoos of arcane 
sigils that resemble eyes. The eyes and the eye tattoos 
all open at once and turn to you, and the eyeless 
beggars scream and flee.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 134 ---
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 135 ---
134
Glass Wall. The force field to one side of the clearing 
prevents creatures from entering the grounds of the 
Tower of the Moon. Five floating eyes on the far side 
appear to be monsters ready to attack the party; these 
are mere illusions. The glass wall can be opened in 
several ways: by a passwall spell, by the sacrifice of the 
golem’s largest eye, or by the sacrifice of 10 hit points 
from each creature passing through the barrier. 
Ramp. The ramp up is normal terrain and reaches a 
height of 20 feet, enough to reach the cave entrance 
which is (strangely enough, and counter to most 
geography) at the top of a small hill. The cave itself is 
filled with a number of banished fey and angels, all of 
them quite dangerous (see “Development” below if they 
are freed).
ENCOUNTER CHOICES
Hard (9th-level characters)—1 eye golem
Hard (10th-level characters)—1 eye golem, 1 shadow 
beast
Hard (11th-level characters)—1 eye golem, 2 shadow 
beasts
Eye Golem
Large construct, unaligned
Armor Class 20 (natural armor)
Hit Points 157 (15d10 + 75)
Speed 30 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
22 (+6)	 9 (–1)	
20 (+5)	
5 (–3)	
11 (+0)	 1 (–5)
Skills Perception +8
Damage Immunities fire, poison, psychic; bludgeoning, 
piercing, and slashing from nonmagical attacks that 
aren’t adamantine
Condition Immunities charmed, exhaustion, frightened, 
paralyzed, petrified, poisoned
Senses truesight 120 ft., passive Perception 18
Languages understands the languages of its creator, but 
can’t speak
Challenge 11 (7,200 XP)
Immutable Form. The golem is immune to any spell or 
effect that would alter its form.
Magic Resistance. The golem has advantage on saving 
throws against spells and other magical effects.
Magic Weapons. The golem’s weapon attacks are 
magical.
ACTIONS
Multiattack. The golem makes two melee attacks.
Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 24 (4d8 + 6) bludgeoning damage.
Gaze of Ancient Light (Recharge 6). The golem emits 
a burst of blinding light, affecting all opponents within 
30 feet that it can see. These creatures must make 
a successful DC 17 Constitution saving throw or be 
permanently blinded. All affected creatures, including 
those that succeed on the save, are stunned until the 
end of their next turn.
Primal Voice of Doom (1/Day). The golem intones a 
disturbing invocation of the sun god. Creatures within 
30 feet of the golem must make a successful DC 17 
Wisdom saving throw or become frightened. Deafened 
or unhearing creatures are unaffected.
Shoot into the Sun (1 Minute/Day). When roused for 
combat, the golem opens many of its eyes, emitting 
blinding light. All ranged attacks, including ranged 
spells that require a spell attack roll, are made with 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 136 ---
135
disadvantage against the golem. The effect persists as 
long as the eye golem desires, up to a total of 1 minute 
(10 rounds) per day.
Shadow Beast
Medium fey, chaotic evil
Armor Class 15 
Hit Points 90 (12d8 + 36)
Speed 0 ft., fly 40 ft. (hover)
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
6 (–2)	
20 (+5)	
17 (+3)	
14 (+2)	
14 (+2)	 19 (+4)
Saving Throws Dex +7, Con +6
Skills Stealth +7
Damage Resistances acid, cold, fire, lightning, thunder; 
bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing from nonmagical 
attacks 
Damage Immunities necrotic, poison
Condition Immunities charmed, exhaustion, grappled, 
paralyzed, petrified, poisoned, prone, restrained
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 12
Languages Common, Elvish, Umbral, Void Speech
Challenge 7 (2,900 XP)
Incorporeal Movement. The shadow beast can move 
through other creatures and objects as if they were 
difficult terrain. It takes 5 (1d10) force damage if it ends 
its turn inside an object.
Innate Spellcasting. The shadow beast’s innate 
spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 15). It can 
innately cast the following spells, requiring no material 
components: 
3/day each: fear, telekinesis
Magic Resistance. The shadow beast has advantage on 
saving throws against spells and other magical effects. 
Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the shadow beast 
has disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks that rely on sight.
ACTIONS
Multiattack. The shadow beast makes three attacks: one 
with its bite and two with its claws.
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
creature. Hit: 14 (2d8 + 5) piercing damage. 
Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
creature. Hit: 16 (2d10 + 5) slashing damage. 
Shadow Push (Recharge 5–6). The shadow beast buffets 
opponents with a gale of animated shadows in a 15-foot 
cone. Any creatures in the area must succeed on a DC 
15 Strength saving throw or be pushed back 10 feet and 
knocked prone.
Development
When it is killed, the eye golem does not simply 
fall down dead. All its eyes open at once, emitting a 
scream heard for miles and a burst of light that blots 
out everything around. When the light and noise 
stop, the dazed characters see hundreds of perfectly 
preserved eyeballs on the ground all around them. 
Stepping normally squelches them underfoot. Stepping 
carefully so as to avoid them requires a successful DC 
10 Dexterity (Acrobatics) check. Someone who succeeds 
on a DC 11 Wisdom (Medicine) check realizes that the 
eyes are still warm and fresh, without the sort of scars or 
damage that one might expect.
A character who examines the eyes and succeeds on 
a DC 13 Wisdom (Perception) check determines that 
some of the eye golem’s eyes have been taken from fey 
at the court. In particular, Baron Suvid’s missing eye is 
one of them, and he would be most pleased to have it 
returned. Someone who studies the eyes carefully and 
makes a successful DC 20 Intelligence (Arcana) check 
or a DC 24 Intelligence (Investigation) check finds that 
many of them have a thin, flickering beam of arcane 
energy that connects them to their owners. With this 
way, the characters can return twelve such eyes to their 
grateful fey; doing so is equivalent to completing a 
minor quest.
Creatures in the Golem’s Cavern. The fey and 
their eye golem servant have imprisoned many fey and 
celestial creatures in a horrible, lightless, dreamless, 
merciless, and pitiful hole found at the end of the ramp. 
The voices within are begging and pitiful—but unlike 
the eyeless beggars, these creatures all speak Celestial.
These angelic-voiced creatures that are so desperate 
for freedom have gone mad, and if released, they 
might attack their tormentors. A successful DC 20 
Charisma (Intimidation) check cows them, as they have 
been abused into a truly pitiful state. They are easily 
cowed because the fey enjoy pretending to be helpful 
adventurers, letting an angel or two loose and then 
stuffing them back into this place. The black hole they 
are within is magically warded. A successful DC 23 
Intelligence (Arcana) check or a successful casting of 
dispel magic against DC 19 opens the wards.
If the characters do let the creatures out, they see them 
as a mix of wingless angels and demented devils, forced 
to dwell together in too little space. The fey pulled the 
wings off these creatures to beat them with, leaving 
them with perpetually bloody stumps. The wings can be 
found in the tower’s upper floor and can be restored to 
their owners with healing magic.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 137 ---
136
Treasure
When the eye golem dies, its various tattoos and 
eyeballs turn into a total of 120 pp, each coin marked 
with the image of an eye.
The large eye in the golem’s center could be the eye of 
a primordial or a titan of ancient days, and that creature 
might come looking for it when the golem is slain. 
Depending on your preference at this point, the eye can 
instead be used as a crystal ball or can power the ritual 
that restores sight to the eyeless beggars (see Scene 4, 
page 132).
Act IV, Scene 6:  
Tower of the Moon
The party begins this encounter outside the tower. The 
place goes by several names, also including the Tower 
of Lost Hopes, the Tower of the Moonlit King (or the 
Tower of the Queen, in season), the Shadow Source, and 
the Tower of Radiant Death. 
The encounter proceeds from outside the door to the 
entryway, then to the Stairway of Radiant Beams, and 
finally into the Lunar Audience Chamber. Each section 
has its own challenges, and lingering in a section draws 
the attention of Revich from atop the tower. He might 
urge the party on if they dawdle.
Illumination. The light from the Tower of the Moon is 
so bright that it hurts to stare at it. Its piercing light 
inflicts great pain upon light-sensitive creatures, 
making this a very safe place to keep things away from 
the shadow fey. The Tower’s light counts as sunlight 
for the purpose of creatures that have weaknesses to 
sunlight.
THE TOWER PROPER
The outer walls of the tower literally resemble the 
moon, with both light and dark sections, plus areas that 
resemble lunar craters and seas. Big holes can be seen in 
its walls halfway up; a small balcony perches almost at 
the top; and the slate roof is topped by a statue.
Beyond the blue glass door is an enormous chamber 
dominated by a pale gray-blue set of stairs, as if 
smoke had taken a spiral form and were climbing up. 
On either side of the stairs are piles of stone rubble. 
The enormous oak and iron circle of a wheel fully ten 
feet across lies across the bottom of the stairs. A chain 
dangles down to the oak wheel from above. 
	 A wall of moonlight divides the room behind the 
stairs from the front section. Bloodstains and green 
splatters stain the floor around the throne.
Wisdom (Perception) DC 17—Something shadowy sits 
on the throne.
See the description of the Orb of Rule (page 140) for 
details about the wall of moonlight.
The Radiant Stairway. The stairs in the center of the 
tower glow with bluish light, and they are transparent. 
The king or another person holding the Orb of Rule can 
turn the stairs on or off each round as a bonus action. 
When they are on, they are solid stairs. When they are 
turned off, the stairs disappear, and creatures on them 
plummet to earth. The Moonlit King flies up to the top 
and uses the Radiant Stairway to allow Chamberlain 
Ralk to climb up to him. He’s willing to let Ralk fall if it 
takes his enemies down as well.
Creatures that fall through an interior level of the 
tower can grab hold of the beams or edges of the floor 
and arrest their fall with a successful DC 13 Dexterity 
saving throw. Failure to grab onto something means an 
extra 1d10 bludgeoning damage from the impact of the 
wall or floor against an arm or leg, plus falling damage.
The First Floor. Two holes look down to the ground 
floor, and the smoky bluish spiral stairs continue up, 
although they are paler here than below. The chain 
extends through the western hole and continues up.
The Charred Beams and Hoist. This feature is a 
dangerous floor that seems solid at first. Read:
This burnt-out floor is a strange one: two enormous 
holes mar the outer walls, and a layer of bluish smoke 
stops just above the charred remains of many floor 
beams, creating a sort of arcane floor. Two of the 
charred beams still extend all the way from one side of 
the tower to the other. One is near a block-and-tackle 
hoist that connects a heavy chain to the bottom floor.
Intelligence (Arcana) DC 18—The smoke is magical, but 
it won’t hold weight.
Wisdom (Perception) DC 16—The charred beams will 
fall apart pretty soon. Don’t count on them for long!
The floor holds very little weight. It collapses at the start 
of the third round of combat or when three creatures 
stand on one beam at the same time.
Upper Level. The spiral stairs become quite spongy 
underfoot in this area. Two open doorways lead out to 
the balcony and balustrade. 
The Balustrade. Fully 130 feet above ground level, the 
6 foot-wide balcony has a simple marble wall, about 
2 feet high. Exterior stairs ascend to the battlements 
and rooftop.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 138 ---
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 139 ---
138
Slate Roof and Angel. The battlements and the 
35-foot-diameter slate roof are the darkest parts of 
the tower, although the statue at the peak is in fact 
the blindfolded angel Revich, glowing with a pure 
warm light. He knows this meeting will irrevocably 
affect the future of the Shadow Realm, and is here to 
observe the event.
If the characters befriended him in the Lords of Light 
encounter, he might assist each member of the Lords of 
Light faction by healing them up to 25 hit points each 
and giving them a minor boon (treat the next critical hit 
against the character as a normal hit instead). 
MEETING THE MOONLIT KING
The former monarch of the Moonlit Court, exiled here by 
the queen, is fading into a ghost—a psychic impression 
of his former self. The king is far enough gone, however, 
that he doesn’t know that’s what is happening. His retinue 
attends him in the form of lunar devils and talking 
shadows, and he still believes he can reclaim the throne. 
His physical servant is Chamberlain Ralk, a mad derro 
who has been twisted into a fiendish hulk, huge and 
insane and willing to cater to his master’s every whim. 
The king talks to the characters to “enlist” them in his 
cause. To lure them close, he promises them secrets and 
rewards, perhaps even a way out of the labyrinth—none 
of which he can or intends to fulfill.
Although the king is mad, he’s mad in a very particular 
way. The party can hold a conversation with him, but 
he’s not always part of the same conversation they 
hear. Sometimes, the Moonlit King doesn’t address the 
characters directly at all but talks to ghosts and even to 
his own sentient shadow.
This shadow, it should be noted, might be his strongest 
vestige and animating power. It is strong enough that 
it can survive his death—his shadow is in fact stronger 
than he is. 
The characters probably have no idea what they are 
getting into, though lucky ones will figure it out fairly 
quickly.
LUNAR AUDIENCE CHAMBER 
By stealth or strength of arms, when the characters 
reach the heavily guarded Tower of the Moon, they soon 
discover the Moonlit King is mad mad mad.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 140 ---
139
The interior of the tower is filled with two piles of 
rubble, a handful of moonbeams, and a bright 
glowing staircase of blue light. In the back, in shadow, 
is a throne of pale greenish stone. 
	 The figure on the throne resembles a shadow fey, if 
a shadow fey were half-transparent, with wild blue hair 
like a derro savant and grayish-green armor. His limbs 
sometimes appear ghostly and transparent, and at 
other times gray and solid as stone. 
	 An enormous creature stands next to him, a servant 
or bodyguard of some kind, a hunchbacked giant with 
the heavy proportions and flowing beard of a crazed 
dwarf. 
	 The king speaks. “I am the ancient spirit doomed 
for long aeons to walk this maze, and each day to be 
chained fast in a dozen tiny fires till the crimes done in 
my sighted days are purged and burnt away. Have you 
come to free me?”
Let the characters respond. 
Passive Perception (contested by the lunar devil’s Stealth 
check)—Creatures are hiding among the moonbeams 
and strange shadows in the tower. They’re silvery 
and translucent, with vast maws and folded wings—
something inhuman.
Wisdom (Insight) DC 13—The king’s stare is odd, and 
he seems to only halfway hear you. There’s something 
wrong with him. 
If the party keeps talking, the king enjoys their 
company but makes it plain that he will not truly 
bargain for Zobeck’s release from the fey unless he gets 
something out of it. Read or paraphrase the following:
The king’s head lolls back, and he pulls a bluish-
gray orb out from beneath his short cloak. “Listen, O 
Crescents, these petitioners have come to give me 
speech and seek my counsel. Yet I am no scáthsidhe 
easily bought. What have they brought? What tribute 
do you render unto me, my shadow, say now, and tell 
it to mine ear?”
He motions his lumbering servant forward to the 
moonlight wall, and waits expectantly.
Intelligence (History) DC 16—His majesty expects an 
offering, or bribe, as is customary among the nobility.
Wisdom (Insight) DC 21—The king mostly likely would 
accept magic, possibly something more personal, such 
as a sign from the queen or proof of a rival’s death.
The audience ends unless the characters can convince 
the king to speak with them by giving him an offering. 
Acceptable items include anything you see fit, with 
emphasis on those that are connected with the 
characters’ previous actions Possibilities include the 
head of the Demon Lord of Roaches, a mass of gold or 
jewels (worth 25,000 gp or more), a very rare magic 
item, a lock of the queen’s hair or a memory of hers in 
physical form, and the complete set of key-daggers the 
characters received earlier (see page 124).
If no bribe is offered to draw his interest, the king 
continues his conversations but less and less frequently 
addresses the characters. Instead, he speaks more and 
more to the hulking derro giant and to his shades and 
servants, barely visible ghosts and tattered spirits. He sits 
behind his wall, content to babble and wait the party out.
Playing Crazy. To demonstrate how the king behaves, 
turn away from the players and address a wall or a 
ceiling occasionally. This tactic might be amusing if 
you have the king ask for impossible things—“Fetch 
me two cups of girlish laughter.” It might come off as 
creepy and unsettling if he asks for horrible things—“I 
demand that you excise my petitioner’s conscience, and 
then his childhood.” Make it clear that the king thinks 
he can crush them like bugs—“Where are my boots for 
crushing mortal hopes? Polish them! Get them on my 
feet, you worthless shade!”
THE KING’S MADNESS
The King can offer what the characters want—the 
relinquishing of the claim to Zobeck—in exchange for 
their cutting him and spilling his blood in the Tower. The 
characters might think that he is a Joker-style masochist, 
but the truth is slightly different. Spilling the king’s blood 
breaks an ancient prohibition against harming the king 
and frees him from his sworn oath to remain in the 
tower—and it even helps relieve his madness.
The problem is that his madness prevents him from 
taking even simple steps for his own benefit, and thus 
the characters must help put the pieces of his sanity 
together before he can do so. Treat this approach as a 
skill challenge with some added complications; the King 
asks some questions that weigh heavily on his broken 
mind. The correct answers help pull him closer to the 
shores of sanity, while false answers drive him deeper 
into rage. 
Throughout the adventure, the characters might have 
discovered the answers to these questions. Each such 
clue is noted in a sidebar titled “Shards of a Broken 
Mind,” with the exception to the answer of “Who sent 
you here?” That answer should be obvious to them, but 
they need to be careful in how they deliver that answer. 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 141 ---
140
Restore the Mad King’s  
Trust and Mind
The king asks many questions of the characters. Setting 
him straight on all counts requires undertaking a skill 
challenge and getting 5 successes before 3 failures. Below 
are the questions, the proper answers, and the kind of 
successful ability check needed to convey each answer. 
If the characters actually know the answers to any of 
these questions, they can speak an answer and gain an 
automatic success in the skill challenge without rolling.
“How long has my bride ruled the realm?”  
“A hundred years or more, Your Majesty.”  
(Intelligence [History] DC 22)
“Who brought this madness upon me?”  
“The Demon Lord of Roaches did, Your Majesty.” 
(Charisma [Persuasion] DC 24)
“Who sent you here?”  
“The queen worries for your continued health, and 
sent us to you for reasons of state.”  
(Charisma [Deception] DC 21)
“Where is my daughter?”  
“She abides far from the Realm of Shadow, in the 
lands of Midgard.”  
(Intelligence [Investigation] DC 24)
“How has the queen ensorcelled me?”  
“She uses the light of the firebird to weave the chains 
that bind your mind, Your Majesty.”  
(Intelligence [Arcana] DC 22)
Each time the characters answer incorrectly, gaining 
a failure in the skill challenge, the king shouts the 
following demands in order:
1.   “You offer me trifles! You know nothing! Lord Stross, 
I compel you to attend me.”
2.   “Wrong again! You must be traitors sent against me! 
Master Quickstep, I compel you to attend me.”
3.   And finally, “What you say is not possible. You 
are false ghosts sent to torment me. Archduke 
Bonerattler, I compel you to destroy them!”
Overall Success. The Moonlit King’s shattered mind 
regains some semblance of order, if only briefly. Proceed 
to “The Weary King’s Price.”
Overall Failure. Combat begins and continues until the 
Moonlit King is defeated. 
Combat with the King
even the darkness will not be dark to you; 
the night will shine like the day, 
for darkness is as light to you.
—Psalms 139:12
If the skill challenge results in a failure or the characters 
do not even try to engage the king in conversation, 
combat ensues. 
The Moonlit King is a glass demon, a translucent 
creature of light and hardened glass. He remains out of 
reach by flying, or by casting wall of force from the Orb 
of Rule. The Moonlit King is a pale shadow of his former 
might, an echo left behind after the scream of madness 
passed. He has half his maximum hit points, and spends 
most of his normal actions during the combat raving 
unless he is directly threatened. He can use his legendary 
actions and lair actions to affect the battle, however.
ENCOUNTER CHOICES
Hard (10th-level characters)—Moonlit King, 1 lunar 
devil, Chamberlain Ralk
Hard (11th-level characters)—Moonlit King, 1 lunar 
devil, Chamberlain Ralk, 1 shadow beast
Deadly (11th-level characters)—Moonlit King, 2 lunar 
devils, Chamberlain Ralk, 1 shadow beast
Moonbeams. The tower is filled with four moonbeams, 
shafts of pure lunar light inside the walls that 
empower and strengthen the king’s magic. As long as 
he stands within one of them, he can use his Aura of 
Madness legendary action. When the king is outside 
Orb of Rule
Wondrous item, legendary (requires attunement)
The Orb of Rule is a glowing bluish-gray orb that 
always reflects the phase of the moon; black at new 
moon, glowing on its entire surface during a full 
moon. It harnesses the power of moonlight, giving 
its wielder significant abilities.
As a bonus action, you can transform the orb into 
a +3 flail that deals an extra 2d6 radiant damage on 
a successful hit, or back into orb form. In orb form, it 
has the properties described below.
While holding the orb, you gain a flying speed 
equal to twice your walking speed, and you have 
resistance to radiant damage. 
The orb has 20 charges. While holding it, you can 
use an action to expend 1 or more of its charges to 
cast one of the following spells from it (spell save DC 
17): magic missile (1 charge), polymorph (4 charges, 
bat and owl forms, including giant, only), resilient 
sphere (4 charges), wall of force (5 charges). 
The orb regains 2d8 + 4 expended charges daily at 
midnight.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 142 ---
141
a moonbeam, his aura is inactive. The moonbeams 
are mobile terrain; they are 10-foot squares, and they 
start in the squares immediately adjacent to the king. 
The king can move the moonbeams using his Control 
Moonlight trait. Likewise, when a character deals 
radiant damage or casts a spell that creates light, the 
character can move one of the moonbeams up to 20 
feet; a character who deals necrotic damage or who casts 
a spell that creates darkness can quench a moonbeam 
entirely with a successful DC 20 Charisma check.
Intelligence (Arcana) DC 15—Creatures with light- or 
radiant-based spells or abilities can probably move or 
control the beams of light.
Intelligence (Arcana) DC 20—Creatures with shadow- or 
necrotic-based spells or abilities can probably quench 
the moonbeams.
Moonlit King 
Medium fey, neutral good
Armor Class 17 (half plate)
Hit Points 170 (20d8 + 80) (currently 85 maximum)
Speed 50 ft., fly 100 ft. (while holding the Orb of Rule)
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
16 (+3)	 20 (+5)	
18 (+4)	
20 (+5)	
18 (+4)	 20 (+5)
Saving Throws Con +10, Wis +10, Cha +11
Skills Arcana +11, Perception +10
Damage Resistances acid, radiant (while holding the Orb of 
Rule); bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing from weapons 
that aren’t made of cold iron
Damage Immunities cold, fire, poison
Condition Immunities charmed, frightened, poisoned
Senses blindsight 30 ft., darkvision 120 ft., passive 
Perception 20
Languages Abyssal, Celestial, Common, Draconic, Elvish, 
Infernal, Umbral, telepathy 100 ft.
Challenge 7 (2,900 XP)
Control Moonlight. As a bonus action, the Moonlit King 
can cause all areas of moonlight within 100 feet to move 
up to 10 feet.
Innate Spellcasting. The Moonlit King’s innate 
spellcasting ability score is Charisma (save DC 19, +11 to 
hit with spell attacks). The Moonlit King can innately cast 
the following spells, requiring no material components.
At will: continual flame, detect evil and good, invisibility 
(self only), moonbeam, zone of truth 
3/day each: blight, dispel evil and good, dispel magic 
1/day: demiplane
Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the Moonlit King fails 
a saving throw, he can choose to succeed instead.
Magic Weapons. The Moonlit King’s weapon attacks 
are magical, and deal an extra 7 (2d6) radiant damage 
(included below).
Special Equipment. Orb of Rule (the benefits of holding 
the orb are included in the Moonlit King’s statistics; 
he prefers to attack with his crystal staff if he makes a 
melee attack)
ACTIONS
Multiattack. The Moonlit King makes three attacks with 
either his crystal staff or his moon bolt.
Crystal Staff. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., 
one target. Hit: 7 (1d8 + 3) bludgeoning damage plus 7 
(2d6) radiant damage. A target that is struck by the staff 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 143 ---
142
two or more times in one turn must make a successful 
DC 17 Constitution saving throw or be stunned until the 
end of its next turn.
Moon Bolt. Ranged Spell Attack: +11 to hit, range 
150/600 ft., one target. Hit: 22 (4d10) radiant damage. 
If the target is a creature in a form other than its natural 
form, it takes an extra 22 (4d10) radiant damage and 
must succeed on a DC 19 Charisma saving throw or 
revert to its natural form. When the moon bolt hits a 
target, moonlight glows in a 10-foot radius from that 
point, creating dim light. The light is stationary and lasts 
until the end of the Moonlit King’s next turn.
Fearful Shadows (Recharge 5–6). The Moonlit King 
magically animates the shadows of all foes within 
60 feet of himself. The animated shadows attack the 
creatures who cast them. All affected creatures in the 
area take 35 (10d6) necrotic damage, or half damage 
with a successful DC 19 Dexterity saving throw. A 
creature that fails the saving throw also loses 1d4 
points from its Strength score. A creature reduced to 0 
Strength is unconscious until it regains at least 1 point 
of Strength. Strength lost in this way returns when the 
creature finishes a short or long rest.
Summon Devil (1/Day). The Moonlit King magically 
summons a lunar devil. The summoned devil appears 
in an unoccupied space within 60 feet of its summoner, 
acts as an ally of its summoner, and can’t summon other 
devils. It remains for 10 minutes, until its summoner 
dies, or until its summoner dismisses it as an action.
REACTIONS
Shadow Slip. The Moonlit King takes on the quality of his 
delusions when he is targeted by an attacker he can see. 
He becomes nearly insubstantial, so that the attack roll 
is made with disadvantage. If the attack hits, the Moonlit 
King takes half damage.
LEGENDARY ACTIONS
The Moonlit King can take 3 legendary actions, choosing 
from the options below. Only one legendary action 
option can be used at a time and only at the end of 
another creature’s turn; the Moonlit King regains spent 
legendary actions at the start of his turn:
Staff. The Moonlit King makes a crystal staff attack.
Lightwalking. The Moonlit King teleports from one area 
of moonlight to another within 100 feet.
Aura of Madness (Costs 2 Actions). While he is standing 
in an area of moonlight, the Moonlit King can spread his 
madness to other creatures within 30 feet. A creature 
other than a fiend that starts its turn in the aura or 
enters it for the first time on a turn (including when 
the aura is created) must succeed on a DC 19 Charisma 
saving throw or be confused (as if affected by the 
confusion spell) until the start of its next turn. The aura 
lasts until the start of the Moonlit King’s next turn.
Moonlit King’s Lair
The Moonlit King currently has been exiled by his wife, 
the Queen of Night and Magic, to the Tower of the 
Moon, which is hidden in a spiral labyrinth deep within 
the Plane of Shadows. The tower is a run-down, forlorn 
place, filled with false whispers and shadow ghosts of 
the mad fey lord’s own creation.
Lair Actions
On initiative count 20 (losing initiative ties), the 
Moonlit King takes a lair action to cause one of the 
following effects; the Moonlit King can’t use the same 
effect two rounds in a row:
•  The Moonlit King creates four beams of moonlight 
at four points he can see within 100 feet. The beams 
each illuminate a 10-foot radius with dim light. These 
moonbeams last until the Moonlit King uses this 
action again, or until he dies.
•  The Moonlit King chooses a point he can see within 
100 feet. Disembodied whispers speaking of despair 
and failure fill a 30-foot radius from that point. All 
creatures other than fiends in the area must succeed on 
a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened 
until initiative count 20 on the following round.
•  The Moonlit King magically summons four shadow 
beasts. They appear in unoccupied spaces the Moonlit 
King can see within 60 feet. They act immediately and 
remain until initiative count 20 on the following round.
Shadow Beast
Medium fey, chaotic evil
Armor Class 15 
Hit Points 90 (12d8 + 36)
Speed 0 ft., fly 40 ft. (hover)
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
6 (–2)	
20 (+5)	
17 (+3)	
14 (+2)	
14 (+2)	 19 (+4)
Saving Throws Dex +7, Con +6
Skills Stealth +7
Damage Resistances acid, cold, fire, lightning, thunder; 
bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing from nonmagical 
attacks 
Damage Immunities necrotic, poison
Condition Immunities charmed, exhaustion, grappled, 
paralyzed, petrified, poisoned, prone, restrained
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 12
Languages Common, Elvish, Umbral, Void Speech
Challenge 7 (2,900 XP)
Incorporeal Movement. The shadow beast can move 
through other creatures and objects as if they were 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 144 ---
143
difficult terrain. It takes 5 (1d10) force damage if it ends 
its turn inside an object.
Innate Spellcasting. The beast’s innate spellcasting 
ability is Charisma (spell save DC 15). It can innately cast 
the following spells, requiring no material components: 
3/day each: fear, telekinesis
Magic Resistance. The shadow beast has advantage on 
saving throws against spells and other magical effects. 
Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the shadow beast 
has disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks that rely on sight.
ACTIONS
Multiattack. The shadow beast makes three attacks: one 
with its bite and two with its claws.
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
creature. Hit: 14 (2d8 + 5) piercing damage. 
Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
creature. Hit: 16 (2d10 + 5) slashing damage. 
Shadow Push (Recharge 5–6). The shadow beast buffets 
opponents with a gale of animated shadows in a 15-foot 
cone. Any creatures in the area must succeed on a DC 
15 Strength saving throw or be pushed back 10 feet and 
knocked prone.
Chamberlain Ralk
Huge fiend, chaotic evil
Armor Class 14 (natural armor)
Hit Points 138 (12d12 + 60)
Speed 30 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
22 (+6)	 11 (+0)	
20 (+5)	
8 (–1)	
6 (–2)	
16 (+3)
Senses darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 8
Languages Common, Dwarvish, Umbral
Challenge 6 (2,300 XP)
Insanity. Ralk has advantage on saving throws against 
being charmed or frightened.
Magic Resistance. Ralk has advantage on saving throws 
against spells and other magical effects.
True Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, Ralk has 
disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks that rely on sight. The light shed by 
the Tower of the Moon doesn’t affect Ralk in this way.
ACTIONS
Multiattack. Ralk makes two greatclub attacks.
Greatclub. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 10 ft., 
one target. Hit: 19 (3d8 + 6) bludgeoning damage.
Rock. Ranged Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, range 30/120 ft., 
one target. Hit: 28 (4d10 + 6) bludgeoning damage.
Lunar Devil
Large fiend (devil), lawful evil
Armor Class 16 (natural armor)
Hit Points 94 (9d10 + 45)
Speed 40 ft., fly 60 ft. (hover)
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
21 (+5)	 21 (+5)	
20 (+5)	
16 (+3)	
15 (+2)	 18 (+4)
Saving Throws Str +8, Dex +8, Con +8, Wis +5
Skills Perception +5
Damage Resistances cold; bludgeoning, piercing, and 
slashing damage from nonmagical attacks that aren’t 
silvered
Damage Immunities fire, poison
Condition Immunities poisoned
Senses darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 15
Languages Celestial, Draconic, Elvish, Infernal, Sylvan, 
telepathy 120 ft.
Challenge 8 (3,900 XP)
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 145 ---
144
Devil’s Sight. Magical darkness doesn’t impede the 
devil’s darkvision.
Innate Spellcasting. The devil’s innate spellcasting ability 
is Charisma (spell save DC 15). It can innately cast the 
following spells, requiring no material components:
At will: fly, major image, planar binding
3/day: greater invisibility
1/day: wall of ice
Light Incorporeality. The devil is semi-incorporeal 
when standing in moonlight, and is immune to all 
nonmagical attacks in such conditions. It has resistance 
to all damage, including magical attacks, except force 
damage, and damage dealt by holy water.
Lightwalking. Once per round, the lunar devil magically 
teleports, along with any equipment it is wearing or 
carrying, from one beam of moonlight to another within 
80 feet. This relocation uses half of its speed.
Magic Resistance. The devil has advantage on saving 
throws against spells and other magical effects.
ACTIONS
Multiattack. The devil makes three attacks: one 
with its bite, one with its claws, and one with its tail. 
Alternatively, it can use Hurl Moonlight twice.
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 11 (1d12 + 5) piercing damage.
Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 10 ft., one 
target. Hit: 12 (2d6 + 5) slashing damage.
Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 10 ft., one 
target. Hit: 9 (1d8 + 5) bludgeoning damage.
Hurl Moonlight. Ranged Spell Attack: +7 to hit, range 
150 ft., one target. Hit: 19 (3d12) cold damage and the 
target must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving 
throw or become blinded for 4 rounds.
THE WEARY KING’S OFFER
Once the Moonlit King is defeated in combat (reduced 
to 0 hit points but not explicitly killed by the attacker, 
whether or not a melee attack reduced his hit points 
to 0) or convinced to stop fighting by a successful skill 
challenge, he slumps and falters. Indeed, his crown 
grows heavy, and he is suddenly the Weary King, 
burdened by his failures and madness in the past—but 
also sane. Read: 
The king slumps in defeat, and the blue-gray orb of 
power falls from his hands to the floor. “I am tired of 
battle. I am tired of the ghosts that haunt me. That time 
is past.” His eyes seem unclouded, and when he looks 
toward you, it’s clear that his madness has passed. 
	 “My mind is my own, but perhaps time is short. Let us 
strike a bargain: I shall give you the city of the kobolds, 
and you shall give me enough help that my own 
purposes will blossom like cherries in springtime.Let us 
. . . haggle.”
At this point, the Moonlit King can be convinced to 
put his seal to a character’s flesh as a royal sign that 
proves he has renounced the shadow fey claim to the 
human/kobold city. He does not do so for nothing, but 
he certainly accepts the mortal claim to Zobeck—and 
the end of fey edicts and assassinations—in exchange 
for whatever you think is most appropriate, given the 
character of the mad king. The decision is not one over 
which he is willing to linger. Here are four likely options:
1. A female character must spend the night with the 
Moonlit King atop the tower or in some secluded 
place. This leaves her with her choice of advantage on 
all saving throws against a single damage type of the 
player’s choice (bludgeoning, fire, and so forth), but 
forever scarred by the touch of shadow and light (the 
character has disadvantage on saving throws made 
against necrotic and radiant damage).
2. The party must sacrifice the greatest and most 
powerful item it holds, which is used to restore the 
king’s powers using mortal magic—something the fey 
can never quite master.
3. The party swears a divine oath that they will pursue 
and slay the Demon Lord of Roaches (thus perhaps 
setting up a future adventure). Failure to pursue this 
goal has dire consequences, as the characters waste 
away and become deathwisps (treat this effect as a geas 
that can’t be removed by any means short of the direct 
intercession of a deity, unless the task is completed). 
4. In a game that inclines toward the tragic, the Moonlit 
King might wish for his own death—but he warns the 
characters that this event will unleash dark powers 
throughout the Shadow Realm (and ignite a deadly 
fight that the characters must escape). Indeed, if 
anyone claims his crown, they also inherit his shadow 
and his memories—and, in time, his madness.
If the king “puts his seal to a character’s flesh,” this 
means that at least one character is marked with a 
crescent moon and acknowledged as a servant of the 
king. As soon as this occurs, move on to the Conclusion 
unless you particularly want to reprise all the courtly 
thanks and honors. It’s perhaps as well that they are 
dropped unceremoniously back into the mortal world.
DEVELOPMENT: DEATH TO THE KING,  
ANGEL OF THE LIGHT
If the character who strikes the final blow obeys the 
queen’s implicit wish and elects to kill the Moonlit 
King, read: 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 146 ---
145
The tower lights are all immediately doused, as if by 
rushing waters or a wave of shadows. A great howl 
goes up from the animals and creatures of the forest: 
wolves, birds, and owls all giving voice. Darkness 
presses in, and it’s easy to get the idea that perhaps 
the tower is surrounded by monsters on all sides.
This event marks the end of light in the darkness, 
and the start of a dark age in the court during which 
the Black Prince, the Demon Lord of Roaches, and 
the queen commit murder daily, executing dissenters, 
running arcane battles of demons against fey with death 
to the hindmost. Trying to leave by simply going back 
out through the maze is suicide; there are hundreds of 
shadow creatures (each dissipates with a single hit, but 
re-forms immediately to provide an endless supply) 
roaming the maze. There are two other more practical 
options for escape:
1. Seize the Orb. The character who first touches the 
Orb of Rule becomes attuned to the orb immediately 
and assumes the title of Moonlit King. This state is 
temporary if the character leaves the Shadow Realm 
within a day. During that time, the orb’s power 
enables the party to return to the queen without 
further incident if they so desire. She holds up her 
end of the bargain if the characters bring the orb to 
her, and thereafter she solidifies her rule. She rewards 
the characters with 140 pp, and she opens a shadow 
road that takes them back to Zobeck if they want to 
leave. (If no character takes the orb, the Demon Lord 
of Roaches claims it not long after, and the queen 
becomes very angry at that turn of events.)
2. The Angel on the Tower. If the characters are willing 
to trust their lives to a blind angel, Revich will fly 
them back to the queen—in return for their promise 
to undertake a quest for him as soon as they return 
to Zobeck (during the next adventure you have 
prepared). The angel burns through the sky like a 
comet all the way to the queen’s audience chamber, 
and upon arrival he demands that the demon lord 
be banished from the court. The characters might 
attempt to support his demands as well, or they could 
remain true to the original bargain, by giving the 
queen some token of her husband’s death in exchange 
for her release of all fey claims and their return home.
DEVELOPMENT: BACK THROUGH THE MAZE 
Akyishigal waits outside the labyrinth to lay claim to 
the king’s tattered soul and—more important—his Orb 
of Rule. If it cannot take the orb by force, it raises up a 
horde of cockroaches and roachling minions to assist. 
This is a battle that the demon lord intends to win; see 
Act III, Scene 5, and double the number of servants 
from the Black Well that accompany it.
DEVELOPMENT: A NEW KING
If a character retains the orb and wants to take the title 
of king or queen, that’s certainly a possible outcome. 
They gain the shadow of the king and over a month’s 
time gain his memories, and become able to hear his 
advising voice. Ruling the Shadow Realm successfully, 
though, is outside the scope of this adventure.
Conclusion  
The Returning Mortals
But, O malignant and ill-boding stars! 
Now thou art come unto a feast of death, 
A terrible and unavoided danger: 
Therefore, dear boy, mount on my swiftest horse; 
And I’ll direct thee how thou shalt escape 
By sudden flight: come, dally not, be gone.
—William Shakespeare, King Henry VI, part I (IV.v)
If one character has taken the title of king and stayed 
behind in the fey kingdoms, he or she will soon be 
driven mad. As for the others, read:
Your return to Zobeck is as quick as the step from a 
shadow into the light of dawn. 
	 Few mortals escape the Shadow Realm alive, and 
fewer still after handing a defeat to the king and 
queen of the shadow fey. But when you return to 
Zobeck, you discover that the city seems to have 
forgotten the fey entirely. Fat flakes of snow fall from 
a measureless sky. Amazingly, it has been a year and a 
day since you left the city. Even so, it’s as if your entire 
experience was a midwinter night’s dream; indeed, 
the city’s Winter Festival is well under way, and spring 
is coming soon. The ambassador is the only one who 
remembers your deeds . . . and indeed, the only one 
who thanks you.
The adventure has taken the characters away from 
the city for a year and a day, no matter how long they 
thought it was.
Night’s candles are burnt out, 
And jocund day stands tiptoe 
On the misty mountaintop.
—William Shakespeare, Romeo and Juliet (I.iii)
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 147 ---
© 2019 Open Design LLC
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 148 ---
©2018 Open Design. Kobold Press logo is a trademark of Open Design LLC. 
5E bullet is used by kind permission of Sasquatch Game Studio.
A RAmpAge of New 
5TH EDITION MONSTERS!
Whether you need alien horrors, dungeon denizens, or sentient avatars 
of the World Tree, the Creature Codex: Tome of Beasts 2 has you 
covered! Nearly 400 new foes for your 5th Edition game—everything 
from acid ants and grave behemoths to void giants and zombie lords. 
Creature Codex includes:
• New demons, angels, golems, and undead
• Dinosaurs and wasteland dragons
• Monsters inspired by European, Mesoamerican, and Asian legends
• Chieftains and other leaders for ratfolk, centaurs,  
goblins, and trollkin
Pick up the Creature Codex at your local game store and  
surprise your players with monsters they won’t be expecting!
www.KoboldPress.com
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 149 ---
From duels and intrigue in the courts of the  
shadow fey to a torchlit crawl through a buried  
pyramid, Kobold Press offers high-quality  
5th Edition adventures for characters  
at every level!
Kobold Press logo is a 
trademark of Open Design. 
Excellent 
Adventures
A 98083
m
MARC RADLE
The Tomb  
          of Mercy
Sersa Victory
A 5th-Edition Adventure for Five Characters of 8
BY JAMES J. HAECK, 
JERRY LENEAVE, 
MIKE SHEA, 
BILL SLAVICSEK
www.KoboldPress.com
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 150 ---
OPEN GAME LICENSE Version 1.0a 
The following text is the property of Wizards of the Coast, Inc. and 
is Copyright 2000 Wizards of the Coast, Inc (“Wizards”). All Rights 
Reserved. 
1. Definitions: (a)”Contributors” means the copyright and/or 
trademark owners who have contributed Open Game Content; 
(b)”Derivative Material” means copyrighted material including 
derivative works and translations (including into other computer 
languages), potation, modification, correction, addition, extension, 
upgrade, improvement, compilation, abridgment or other form in 
which an existing work may be recast, transformed or adapted; (c) 
“Distribute” means to reproduce, license, rent, lease, sell, broadcast, 
publicly display, transmit or otherwise distribute; (d)”Open Game 
Content” means the game mechanic and includes the methods, 
procedures, processes and routines to the extent such content does 
not embody the Product Identity and is an enhancement over the 
prior art and any additional content clearly identified as Open Game 
Content by the Contributor, and means any work covered by this 
License, including translations and derivative works under copyright 
law, but specifically excludes Product Identity. (e) “Product Identity” 
means product and product line names, logos and identifying 
marks including trade dress; artifacts; creatures characters; stories, 
storylines, plots, thematic elements, dialogue, incidents, language, 
artwork, symbols, designs, depictions, likenesses, formats, poses, 
concepts, themes and graphic, photographic and other visual or 
audio representations; names and descriptions of characters, spells, 
enchantments, personalities, teams, personas, likenesses and special 
abilities; places, locations, environments, creatures, equipment, 
magical or supernatural abilities or effects, logos, symbols, or graphic 
designs; and any other trademark or registered trademark clearly 
identified as Product identity by the owner of the Product Identity, and 
which specifically excludes the Open Game Content; (f) “Trademark” 
means the logos, names, mark, sign, motto, designs that are used 
by a Contributor to identify itself or its products or the associated 
products contributed to the Open Game License by the Contributor 
(g) “Use”, “Used” or “Using” means to use, Distribute, copy, edit, 
format, modify, translate and otherwise create Derivative Material of 
Open Game Content. (h) “You” or “Your” means the licensee in terms 
of this agreement.
2. The License: This License applies to any Open Game Content 
that contains a notice indicating that the Open Game Content may 
only be Used under and in terms of this License. You must affix such 
a notice to any Open Game Content that you Use. No terms may be 
added to or subtracted from this License except as described by the 
License itself. No other terms or conditions may be applied to any 
Open Game Content distributed using this License. 
3. Offer and Acceptance: By Using the Open Game Content You 
indicate Your acceptance of the terms of this License. 
4. Grant and Consideration: In consideration for agreeing to 
use this License, the Contributors grant You a perpetual, worldwide, 
royalty-free, nonexclusive license with the exact terms of this License 
to Use, the Open Game Content. 
5. Representation of Authority to Contribute: If You are 
contributing original material as Open Game Content, You represent 
that Your Contributions are Your original creation and/or You have 
sufficient rights to grant the rights conveyed by this License. 
6. Notice of License Copyright: You must update the COPYRIGHT 
NOTICE portion of this License to include the exact text of the 
COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any Open Game Content You are copying, 
modifying or distributing, and You must add the title, the copyright 
date, and the copyright holder’s name to the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of 
any original Open Game Content you Distribute. 
7. Use of Product Identity: You agree not to Use any Product 
Identity, including as an indication as to compatibility, except as 
expressly licensed in another, independent Agreement with the owner 
of each element of that Product Identity. You agree not to indicate 
compatibility or co-adaptability with any Trademark or Registered 
Trademark in conjunction with a work containing Open Game Content 
except as expressly licensed in another, independent Agreement with 
the owner of such Trademark or Registered Trademark. The use of 
any Product Identity in Open Game Content does not constitute a 
challenge to the ownership of that Product Identity. The owner of any 
Product Identity used in Open Game Content shall retain all rights, 
title and interest in and to that Product Identity.
8. Identification: If you distribute Open Game Content You must 
clearly indicate which portions of the work that you are distributing 
are Open Game Content. 
9. Updating the License: Wizards or its designated Agents may 
publish updated versions of this License. You may use any authorized 
version of this License to copy, modify and distribute any Open Game 
Content originally distributed under any version of this License. 
10. Copy of this License: You MUST include a copy of this License 
with every copy of the Open Game Content You Distribute. 
11. Use of Contributor Credits: You may not market or advertise 
the Open Game Content using the name of any Contributor unless 
You have written permission from the Contributor to do so. 
12. Inability to Comply: If it is impossible for You to comply with 
any of the terms of this License with respect to some or all of the 
Open Game Content due to statute, judicial order, or governmental 
regulation then You may not Use any Open Game Material so 
affected. 
13. Termination: This License will terminate automatically if You fail 
to comply with all terms herein and fail to cure such breach within 30 
days of becoming aware of the breach. All sublicenses shall survive 
the termination of this License. 
14. Reformation: If any provision of this License is held to be 
unenforceable, such provision shall be reformed only to the extent 
necessary to make it enforceable. 
15. COPYRIGHT NOTICE 
Open Game License v 1.0a Copyright 2000, Wizards of the Coast, 
Inc. System Reference Document 5.0 Copyright 2016, Wizards of the 
Coast, Inc.; Authors Mike Mearls, Jeremy Crawford, Chris Perkins, 
Rodney Thompson, Peter Lee, James Wyatt, Robert J. Schwalb, Bruce 
R. Cordell, Chris Sims, and Steve Townshend, based on original 
material by E. Gary Gygax and Dave Arneson.
Creature Codex. © 2018 Open Design LLC; Authors Wolfgang 
Baur, Dan Dillon, Richard Green, James Haeck, Chris Harris, Jeremy 
Hochhalter, James Introcaso, Chris Lockey, Shawn Merwin, and Jon 
Sawatsky.
Tome of Beasts. Copyright 2016, Open Design; Authors Chris Harris, 
Dan Dillon, Rodrigo Garcia Carmona, and Wolfgang Baur.
Blood Vaults of Sister Alkava. © 2016 Open Design. Author: Bill 
Slavicsek. The Clattering Keep. © 2017 Open Design. Author: Jon 
Sawatsky.
Demon Cults & Secret Societies for 5th Edition. © 2017 Open 
Design. Authors: Jeff Lee, Mike Welham, and Jon Sawatsky.
Firefalls of Ghoss. © 2018 Open Design LLC. Author: Jon Sawatsky.
The Lamassu’s Secrets. © 2018 Open Design LLC. Author: Richard 
Green.
Midgard Heroes Handbook. © 2018 Open Design LLC; Authors: 
Chris Harris, Dan Dillon, Greg Marks, James Haeck, Jon Sawatsky, 
Michael Ohl, Richard Green, Rich Howard, Scott Carter, Shawn 
Merwin, and Wolfgang Baur.
Midgard Worldbook. Copyright © 2018 Open Design LLC. 
Authors: Wolfgang Baur, Dan Dillon, Richard Green, Jeff Grubb, Chris 
Harris, Brian Suskind, and Jon Sawatsky.
The Raven’s Call 5th Edition © 2015 Open Design; Authors: 
Wolfgang Baur and Dan Dillon.
Warlock Part 1. Authors: Wolfgang Baur, Dan Dillon, Troy E. Taylor, 
Ben McFarland, Richard Green. © 2017 Open Design.
Warlock 2: Dread Magic. Authors: Wolfgang Baur, Dan Dillon, Jon 
Sawatsky, Richard Green. © 2017 Open Design.
Warlock 3: Undercity. Authors: James J. Haeck, Ben McFarland, 
Brian Suskind, Peter von Bleichert, Shawn Merwin. © 2018 Open 
Design.
Warlock 4: The Dragon Empire. Authors: Wolfgang Baur, Chris 
Harris, James J. Haeck, Jon Sawatsky, Jeremy Hochhalter, Brian 
Suskind. © 2018 Open Design.
Zobeck Gazetteer for 5th Edition. Copyright ©2018 Open Design 
LLC. Author: James Haeck.
Courts of the Shadow Fey © 2019 Open Design LLC; Authors: 
Wolfgang Baur & Dan Dillon.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 151 ---
$29.99
ISBN  978-1-936781-79-9
PO Box 2811
Kirkland WA 98083  
www.koboldpress.com
INTRIGUE 
AND 
ADVENTURE 
IN THE 
SHADOW 
REALM
A 5th Edition planar adventure  
for 7th- to 10th-level characters
The Free City of Zobeck has thrived since overthrowing the 
tyrannical Stross family. But an ancient bargain gives the 
Queen of Night and Magic a claim to the city—and now the 
shadow fey have seized Zobeck as their own. The city’s only 
hope lies with a band of heroes who can outfight and outwit 
the shadow fey in the heart of their own realm: the maze of 
treachery and deceit that is the Courts of the Shadow Fey.
This 5th Edition adventure takes you from the mortal world to 
the heart of Shadow, where you’ll:
•	Fight your way through the dangers of the Shadow Realm to 
reach the shadow fey’s courts
•	Engage in dangerous courtly intrigue, trying to increase your status 
to win an audience with the Queen herself
•	Duel for honor, and perhaps win the hand of a lover among the fey nobility
Can you free Zobeck from the grasp of the shadow fey? Or will 
your fate become a tale told in hushed tones as a warning against 
angering the Queen?
James Larsen (Order #51905805)