--- PAGE 1 ---
GREG MARKS
11
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 2 ---
2
Credits
Design: Greg Marks
Development & Editing: Steve Winter
Art Director & Graphic Design: Marc Radle
Cover Art: Marcel Mercado
Interior Art: Marcel Mercado, Florian Stitz
Publisher: Wolfgang Baur
Kobold Press, Midgard, Open Design, and their associated logos are trademarks of Open Design.
Product Identity: The following items are hereby identified as Product Identity, as defined in the Open Game License  
version 1.0a, Section 1(e), and are not Open Content: All trademarks, registered trademarks, proper names (characters,  
place names, new deities, etc.), dialogue, plots, story elements, locations, characters, artwork, sidebars, and trade dress.  
(Elements that have previously been designated as Open Game Content are not included in this declaration.) 
Open Game Content: The Open content in this book includes the Ritual Savant tradition and the Elven High Magic 
school spells. No other portion of this work may be reproduced in any form without permission.
© 2016 Open Design
www.koboldpress.com
Elven High Magic
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 3 ---
3
he ancient high magic of the elves is the 
thing of legend. This branch of the arcane is 
said to use rituals to enchant entire cities, 
to change fate, and even to reshape worlds. It is a 
power that nearly infringes upon the authority of the 
gods. Powerful practitioners of this school are rarely 
seen today, however, and they guard their secrets so 
jealously that it’s widely believed elven high magic 
has died out and its power can no longer be found in 
this world. 
Magic School:  
Elven High Magic
Elven high magic is very powerful and extremely 
rare. With high magic and sufficient time, an elven 
wizard can accomplish just about anything. It is a 
closely guarded secret, practiced only by the elves 
and their shadow fey relatives. Non-elves are never 
taught the ways of this school. That’s both a sign of 
the elves’ sense of superiority and an unfortunate 
practicality. High magic can take centuries to master, 
and humans and other short-lived races simply don’t 
live long enough to become skilled in this art.
Elven High Magic
11
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 4 ---
4
RITUAL SAVANT
Beginning at 2nd level when you select this school, 
the gold and time you must spend to copy a high 
magic spell into your spellbook is halved. 
RITUAL FOCUS
Starting at 2nd level, you can spend 10 minutes 
centering your mental energy and creating a ritual 
focus. When you choose to do so, you can expend 
your ritual focus to create one of the following effects 
when casting the ritual version of a spell.
  • You can cast a ritual version of a spell without 
adding the additional 10 minutes to the casting 
time that’s normally required.
  • You can expend a spell slot one or more levels 
higher than the spell’s nominal level as you 
cast the ritual version of the spell, provided 
the spell allows that as an option. The ritual 
takes effect at the level of the expended spell 
slot instead of the minimum.
  • Some spells have additional, specific 
effects that you can invoke by expending 
your ritual focus.
You can’t use your ritual focus again until 
after you complete a short or long rest.
BOUND MAGIC
At 6th level, you begin to master an 
understanding of elven high magic. You 
bind magic into the fabric of a place, making 
it last without any concentration. Choose 
a ritual spell you know that targets an area. 
Cast the ritual version of the spell and 
expend your ritual focus while burning 
expensive herbs worth 200 gp per level 
of the ritual. The spell’s duration in that 
location becomes a year and a day. If 
you cast the ritual every day for 30 
consecutive days, the spell becomes 
permanent in that location until it’s 
dispelled or otherwise destroyed. 
Additionally, you can expend your 
ritual focus twice between rests. 
RITUAL MASTER
Beginning at 10th level, you can copy any 
spells with the ritual tag, regardless of class, into 
your spellbook. Ritual spells that you copy into 
your spellbook using this ability must be no 
higher in level than half of your wizard level 
(rounded up). You can cast these spells only 
as rituals unless you also learn them by 
other means.
HIGH MAGIC
Starting at 14th level, ritual versions of spells that you 
cast are treated as if they were cast using a spell slot 
one level higher than the slot you actually use. High 
magic can be combined with the increased spell level 
benefit of expending your ritual focus. This applies 
only to spells that can be cast at higher levels.
Additionally, you can expend your ritual focus three 
times between rests. 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 5 ---
5
Deep Magic Elven High Magic
Elven High Magic Spell List
New Spells
AFFLICT LINE
9th-level necromancy (ritual; cleric, warlock, wizard)
Casting Time: 1 hour
Range: 1 mile
Components: V, S, M (a statuette carved in the 
likeness of the victim worth 1,250 gp)
Duration: Permanent; one generation
You invoke the darkest curses upon your victim and 
his or her descendants. This spell does not require 
that you have a clear path to your target, only that 
your target is within range. Your target must make a 
successful Wisdom saving throw or be cursed until 
the magic is dispelled. The victim has disadvantage 
on ability checks and saving throws made with the 
ability score that you choose when you cast the spell. 
In addition, the target’s firstborn offspring is also 
targeted by the curse. The firstborn is allowed a saving 
throw of their own if they currently live, or they make 
one upon their birth if they’re not yet born when the 
spell is cast. If the target’s firstborn has already died, 
the curse passes to their next oldest offspring. 
Ritual Focus. If you expend your ritual focus, the 
curse becomes hereditary, passing from firstborn to 
firstborn for the entire length of the family’s lineage 
until one of them successfully saves against the curse 
and throws off your dark magic. 
1ST LEVEL
Extract Foyson (bard, druid, warlock, wizard)
Guest of Honor (bard, wizard)
2ND LEVEL
Black Swan Storm (sorcerer, warlock, wizard
Clearing the Field (druid, ranger, wizard)
Heartache (bard, sorcerer, warlock, wizard)
Shadows Brought to Light (bard, cleric, paladin,  
warlock, wizard)
Vine Trestle (druid, ranger, wizard)
3RD LEVEL
Song of the Forest (druid, ranger, wizard)
4TH LEVEL
Shadowy Retribution (cleric, sorcerer, warlock, wizard)
5TH LEVEL
Tongue Tied (bard, cleric, warlock, wizard)
6TH LEVEL
Encroaching Shadows (cleric, sorcerer, warlock, wizard)
7TH LEVEL
Celebration (bard, sorcerer, warlock, wizard)
8TH LEVEL
Bloom (cleric, druid, wizard)
Desolation (cleric, druid, wizard)
Harsh Light of Summer’s Glare (druid, sorcerer, wizard)
9TH LEVEL
Afflict Line (cleric, warlock, wizard)
Cosmic Alignment (wizard)
BLACK SWAN STORM
2nd-level evocation (sorcerer, warlock, wizard)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a feather from a black swan)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You call forth a whirlwind of black feathers that fills 
a cube 5 feet on each side. The feathers deal 2d8 force 
damage to creatures inside the cube’s area and radiate 
darkness, causing the illumination level within 20 feet 
of the cube to drop by one step (from bright light to 
dim light, from dim light to darkness). Creatures that 
make a successful Dexterity saving throw suffer only 
half damage but are still affected by the change in light. 
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using 
a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the feathers do an 
additional 1d8 force damage for each slot level above 
2nd.
Ritual Focus. If you expend your ritual focus, then 
you can move the whirlwind up to 15 feet by using a 
bonus action on your turn. If the whirlwind moves 
more than 30 feet from you, the spell ends. 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 6 ---
BLOOM
8th-level conjuration (ritual; cleric, druid, wizard)
Casting Time: 1 hour
Range: 1 mile
Components: V, S, M (a silver acorn worth 500 gp, 
which is consumed in the casting)
Duration: 1 year
You plant a silver acorn in solid ground and spend an 
hour chanting a litany of praises to the natural world, 
after which the land within 1 mile of the acorn becomes 
extremely fertile, regardless of its previous state. Any 
seeds planted in the area of effect grow at twice the 
natural rate. Food harvested regrows within a week. 
After one year, the land slowly reverts to its normal 
fertility, unable to stave off the march of nature. 
Choose one of the following effects, which appears 
and grows immediately:
•   A field planted with vegetables of your choice, 
ready for harvest. 
•   A thick forest of stout trees and ample 
undergrowth.
•   A grassland with wildflowers and extensive 
fodder for grazing. 
•   An orchard of fruit trees of your choice, growing 
in orderly rows and ready for harvest. 
Living creatures that take a short rest within the 
area of a bloom receive the maximum hit points for 
hit dice expended. Bloom counters the effects of a 
desolation spell. 
Ritual Focus. If you expend your ritual focus, the 
duration becomes permanent.
CELEBRATION
7th-level enchantment (ritual; bard, sorcerer, warlock, 
wizard)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components: V, S, M (a small party favor)
Duration: 1 hour
You create a 30-foot-radius area around a point that 
you choose within range. Intelligent creatures that 
enter the area or begin their turn there and fail a 
Wisdom saving throw engage in revelry: drinking, 
singing, laughing, and dancing. Affected creatures 
are reluctant to leave the area until the spell expires, 
preferring to enjoy the festivities. Affected creatures 
forsake appointments, cease caring about their woes, 
and generally behave in a cordial (if not hedonistic) 
manner. This preoccupation with merrymaking 
extends regardless of an affected creature’s agenda 
or alignment. Assassins procrastinate, servants join 
in the celebration rather than serve, guards abandon 
their posts. The effect ends on creatures that are 
attacked, that take damage, or that are forced to 
leave the area. Those whose saving throw succeeds 
can enter or leave the area without danger of being 
enchanted. A creature that failed the saving throw 
and is removed from the area must repeat the saving 
throw if they return to the area. 
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a 
spell slot of 8th level or higher, the spell lasts for an 
additional hour for each slot level above 7th.
Ritual Focus. If you expend your ritual focus, 
unaffected intelligent creatures must make a new 
saving throw every time they begin their turn in the 
area of effect, even if they’ve previously saved against 
the spell.
CLEARING THE FIELD
2nd-level transmutation (ritual; druid, ranger, wizard)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 40 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 hour
With a harsh word and a vicious chopping motion, 
every tree, shrub, and stump within 40 feet of you 
sinks into the ground, leaving the vacated area clear 
of plant life that might otherwise hamper movement 
or obscure sight. Overgrown areas that counted as 
difficult terrain become clear ground and no longer 
hamper movement. The original plant life rises 
from the ground instantly when the spell ends or is 
dispelled. Plant creatures are not affected by clearing 
the field.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a 
spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the spell lasts for an 
additional hour for each slot level above 2nd.
Ritual Focus. If you expend your ritual focus, plant 
creatures within the area of effect must make a 
successful Constitution saving throw or be affected as 
though a by a reduce spell. 
COSMIC ALIGNMENT
9th-level conjuration/illumination (ritual; wizard)
Casting Time: 1 hour
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a piece of quartz) 
Duration: 24 hours
You arrange the forces of the cosmos to your benefit. 
Choose a cosmic event from the Comprehension 
of the Starry Sky ability that affects spellcasting 
(conjunction, eclipse, or nova; see Deep Magic 4: 
Illumination Magic for details). You cast spells as if 
under the effect of the cosmic event until the next 
sunrise or 24 hours have passed. When the ability 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 7 ---
7
Deep Magic Elven High Magic
requires you to expend your insight, you expend your 
ritual focus instead. This spell must be cast outdoors, 
and the casting of this spell is obvious to everyone 
within 100 miles of its casting when an appropriate 
symbol, such as a flaming comet, appears in the sky 
above your location while you are casting the spell.
DESOLATION
8th-level necromancy (ritual; cleric, druid, wizard)
Casting Time: 1 hour
Range: 1 mile
Components: V, S, M (an obsidian acorn worth 500 
gp, which is consumed in the casting)
Duration: 1 year
You plant an obsidian acorn in solid ground and 
spend an hour chanting a litany of curses to the 
natural world, after which the land within 1 mile of 
the acorn becomes unfertile, regardless of its previous 
state. Nothing will grow there, and all plant life in 
the area dies over the course of a day. Plant creatures 
are not affected. Spells that summon plants, such as 
entangle, require an ability check using the caster’s 
spellcasting ability against your spell save DC. If the 
check succeeds, the spell functions normally; if the 
check fails, the spell is countered by desolation. 
After one year, the land slowly reverts to its normal 
fertility, unable to stave off the march of nature. 
Living creatures that take a short rest within the 
area of a desolation halve the result of any hit dice they 
expend. Desolation counters the effects of a bloom spell. 
Ritual Focus. If you expend your ritual focus, the 
duration becomes permanent. 
ENCROACHING SHADOWS
6th-level illusion/illumination (ritual; cleric, sorcerer, 
warlock, wizard)
Casting Time: 1 hour
Range: 150 feet
Components: V, S, M (a drop of blood smeared on a 
silver rod worth 100 gp)
Duration: 12 hours
You cause menacing shadows to invade an area 200 
feet on a side and 50 feet high. Illumination in the area 
drops one step (from bright light to dim, from dim 
light to darkness). Any spell that creates light in the 
area that’s cast using a lower-level spell slot than was 
used to cast encroaching shadows is dispelled, and spells 
that create light don’t function in the area if they are 
of a lower spell slot level. Nonmagical effects can’t 
increase the level of illumination in the affected area.
Spells with “shadow” in their names and spells that 
create darkness or shadow take effect in the area as if a 
one-level-higher spell slot was used casting them.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a 
spell slot of 7th level or higher, the effect lasts for an 
additional 12 hours for each slot level above 6th.
Ritual Focus. If you expend your ritual focus, the 
spell’s duration increases by 12 hours and it cannot 
be dispelled by spells that create light, even if they are 
cast with a higher-level spell slot. 
EXTRACT FOYSON 
1st-level transmutation (ritual; bard, druid,  
warlock, wizard)
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a wooden bowl)
Duration: Permanent
You extract the goodness in food, pulling all the 
nutrition out of three days’ worth of meals and 
concentrating it into about a tablespoon of bland, 
flourlike powder. The flour can be mixed with liquid 
and drunk or baked into elven bread. Foyson used in 
this way still imparts all the nutritional value of the 
original food, for the amount consumed. 
The original food appears unchanged and though it’s 
still filling, it has no nutritional value. Someone eating 
nothing but foyson-free food will eventually starve.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a 
spell slot of 2nd level or higher, an additional three 
meals’ worth of food can be extracted for each slot 
level above 1st.
Ritual Focus. If you expend your ritual focus, you 
can choose to have each day’s worth of foyson take the 
form of a slice of delicious elven bread. 
GUEST OF HONOR
1st-level enchantment (ritual, bard, wizard)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, M (a signet ring worth 25 gp)
Duration: 10 minutes
You whisper words of encouragement, and a target 
that you touch gains confidence along with approval 
from strangers. For the spell’s duration, the subject 
puts their best foot forward and strangers associate 
the target with positive feelings. The target adds 1d4 
to all Charisma (Persuasion) checks made to influence 
the attitudes of others and gains a +2 bonus to their 
status score (if used).
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a 
spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the effect lasts for an 
additional 10 minutes for each slot level above 1st.
Ritual Focus. If you expend your ritual focus, the 
effect lasts for 24 hours. 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 8 ---
8
HARSH LIGHT OF SUMMER’S GLARE
8th-level enchantment (druid, sorcerer, wizard)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 round
Your visage radiates the wrath of the shadow fey, 
which bears down oppressively upon your targets in 
a burst of brilliant light. Only creatures that can see 
you are affected. Creatures with darkvision that fail a 
Constitution saving throw are blinded and stunned. 
Creatures without darkvision that fail a Constitution 
saving throw are blinded. This is not a gaze attack, 
and it cannot be avoided by averting one’s eyes or 
wearing a blindfold.
Ritual Focus. If you expend your ritual focus, 
affected creatures without darkvision are charmed 
instead of blinded. 
HEARTACHE
2nd-level enchantment (bard, sorcerer, warlock, wizard)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a silver locket)
Duration: Instantaneous
You force an enemy to experience pangs of unrequited 
love and emotional distress. These feelings manifest 
with such intensity that the creature suffers 5d6 
psychic damage a failed Charisma saving, or half 
damage on with a successful saving throw. 
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using 
a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, you can target an 
additional enemy for each slot level above 2nd.
Ritual Focus. If you expend your ritual focus, the 
target is also incapacitated for 1 round, if it fails the 
saving throw. 
SHADOWS BROUGHT TO LIGHT
2nd-level divination/illumination (ritual; bard, cleric, 
paladin, warlock, wizard)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
If the target fails a Charisma saving throw, you cause 
the target’s shadow to come to life and reveal one 
of the creature’s most scandalous secrets: some fact 
that the target would not want widely known (GM’s 
choice). When casting the spell, you choose whether 
everyone present will hear the secret, in which case 
the shadow speaks loudly in a twisted version of the 
target’s voice, or if the secret is only whispered to you. 
The shadow speaks Common, unless the target does 
not speak Common, in which case it speaks in the 
target’s native language. 
If the target creature does not have a scandalous 
secret or does not have a spoken language, the spell 
fails as if the creature’s saving throw had succeeded.
If the secret was spoken aloud, the target takes a 
−2 penalty to Charisma checks with anyone who was 
present when it was revealed, for the remainder of the 
day, in addition to any information you obtain or any 
scandal it provokes.
Ritual Focus. If you expend your ritual focus, the 
target has disadvantage on Charisma checks instead 
of the −2 penalty, and the target’s status score is 
reduced by 1 for the remainder of the day (see the 
Midgard Campaign Setting for status rules). At the 
end of the day, the target makes a Charisma saving 
throw against your spell save DC. If this saving throw 
fails, rumors of the target’s indiscretion become 
widespread and the loss of status is permanent.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 9 ---
9
Deep Magic Elven High Magic
SHADOWY RETRIBUTION
4th-level necromancy (ritual; cleric, warlock, sorcerer, 
wizard)
Casting Time: 10 minutes
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a silver goblet filled with the 
caster’s blood)
Duration: 12 hours
You fill a silver cup with your own blood (taking 1d4 
piercing damage) while chanting vile curses in the 
dark. Once the chant is completed, you consume the 
blood and swear an oath of vengeance against any who 
harm you. 
If you are reduced to 0 hit points, your curse is 
invoked; blood pours from your mouth and steams 
away into a red mist that transforms into a shadow. 
The shadow attacks the creature that reduced you to 
0 hit points, ignoring all other targets, until it or the 
target is slain, at which point the shadow dissipates 
into nothing. 
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a 
spell slot of 5th level or higher, an additional shadow 
is conjured for each slot level above 4th.
Ritual Focus. If you expend your ritual focus, the 
spell summons a banshee instead of a shadow. If you 
also use a higher-level spell slot, additional undead are 
still shadows.
SONG OF THE FOREST
3rd-level transmutation (ritual; druid, ranger, wizard)
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a dried leaf crumpled  
and released)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You attune your senses to the natural world, so you 
detect every sound that occurs within 60 feet: wind 
blowing through branches, falling leaves, grazing 
deer, trickling streams, and more. You can clearly 
picture the cause of each sound in your mind. The 
effect gives you tremorsense with a range of 10 feet. In 
addition, you have advantage on Wisdom (Perception) 
checks that rely on sound. Creatures that make no 
noise or that are magically silent cannot be detected 
through this spell’s effect.
Song of the forest only functions in natural 
environments; it fails if cast underground, in a city, 
or in a building that isolates the caster from nature 
(GM’s discretion).
Ritual Focus. If you expend your ritual focus, the 
spell’s effect is equivalent to blindsight with a range of 
30 feet. 
TONGUE TIED
5th-level enchantment (bard, cleric, warlock, wizard)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You make a choking motion while pointing at a target, 
which must make a successful Wisdom saving throw or 
become unable to communicate verbally. The target’s 
speech becomes garbled and it has disadvantage on 
Charisma checks that require speech. The creature can 
cast a spell with a verbal component only by making 
a successful Constitution check against your spell 
save DC. If the Constitution check fails, the creature’s 
action is used but the spell slot isn’t expended. 
Ritual Focus. If you expend your ritual focus, the 
affected target also takes 2d6 psychic damage every 
time it tries to talk. 
VINE TRESTLE 
2nd-level conjuration (ritual; druid, ranger, wizard)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a 1-inch piece of green vine 
that is consumed in the casting)
Duration: 1 hour
You cause a vine to sprout from the ground and crawl 
across a surface or rise into the air in a direction 
chosen by you. The vine must sprout from a solid 
surface (the ground, a wall), but it is strong enough to 
support 600 pounds of weight along its entire length. 
The vine collapses immediately if that 600-pound 
limit is exceeded. A vine that collapses from weight or 
damage instantly disintegrates into nothing.
The vine has many small shoots, so it can be climbed 
with a successful DC 5 Strength (Athletics) check. It 
has AC 8, (5 x your spellcasting level) hit points, and a 
damage threshold of 5.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a 
spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the vine can support 
an additional 30 pounds and its damage threshold 
increases by 1 for each slot level above 2nd.
Ritual Focus. If you expend your ritual focus, the vine 
is permanent until destroyed or dispelled. 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 10 ---
10
The following text is the property of Wizards of the Coast, Inc. 
and is Copyright 2000 Wizards of the Coast, Inc (“Wizards”). 
All Rights Reserved. 
	 1. Definitions: (a)”Contributors” means the copyright and/
or trademark owners who have contributed Open Game 
Content; (b)”Derivative Material” means copyrighted material 
including derivative works and translations (including into 
other computer languages), potation, modification, correction, 
addition, extension, upgrade, improvement, compilation, 
abridgment or other form in which an existing work may 
be recast, transformed or adapted; (c) “Distribute” means 
to reproduce, license, rent, lease, sell, broadcast, publicly 
display, transmit or otherwise distribute; (d)”Open Game 
Content” means the game mechanic and includes the 
methods, procedures, processes and routines to the extent 
such content does not embody the Product Identity and is an 
enhancement over the prior art and any additional content 
clearly identified as Open Game Content by the Contributor, 
and means any work covered by this License, including 
translations and derivative works under copyright law, but 
specifically excludes Product Identity. (e) “Product Identity” 
means product and product line names, logos and identifying 
marks including trade dress; artifacts; creatures characters; 
stories, storylines, plots, thematic elements, dialogue, 
incidents, language, artwork, symbols, designs, depictions, 
likenesses, formats, poses, concepts, themes and graphic, 
photographic and other visual or audio representations; 
names and descriptions of characters, spells, enchantments, 
personalities, teams, personas, likenesses and special 
abilities; places, locations, environments, creatures, 
equipment, magical or supernatural abilities or effects, logos, 
symbols, or graphic designs; and any other trademark or 
registered trademark clearly identified as Product identity 
by the owner of the Product Identity, and which specifically 
excludes the Open Game Content; (f) “Trademark” means 
the logos, names, mark, sign, motto, designs that are used 
by a Contributor to identify itself or its products or the 
associated products contributed to the Open Game License 
by the Contributor (g) “Use”, “Used” or “Using” means to use, 
Distribute, copy, edit, format, modify, translate and otherwise 
create Derivative Material of Open Game Content. (h) “You” or 
“Your” means the licensee in terms of this agreement. 
	 2. The License: This License applies to any Open Game 
Content that contains a notice indicating that the Open Game 
Content may only be Used under and in terms of this License. 
You must affix such a notice to any Open Game Content 
that you Use. No terms may be added to or subtracted from 
this License except as described by the License itself. No 
other terms or conditions may be applied to any Open Game 
Content distributed using this License. 
	 3. Offer and Acceptance: By Using the Open Game Content 
You indicate Your acceptance of the terms of this License. 
4. Grant and Consideration: In consideration for agreeing 
to use this License, the Contributors grant You a perpetual, 
worldwide, royalty-free, non-exclusive license with the exact 
terms of this License to Use, the Open Game Content. 
	 5. Representation of Authority to Contribute: If You are 
contributing original material as Open Game Content, You 
represent that Your Contributions are Your original creation 
and/ or You have sufficient rights to grant the rights conveyed 
by this License. 
	 6. Notice of License Copyright: You must update the 
COPYRIGHT NOTICE portion of this License to include the 
exact text of the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any Open Game 
Content You are copying, modifying or distributing, and You 
must add the title, the copyright date, and the copyright 
holder’s name to the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any original Open 
Game Content you Distribute. 
	 7. Use of Product Identity: You agree not to Use any Product 
Identity, including as an indication as to compatibility, except 
as expressly licensed in another, independent Agreement 
with the owner of each element of that Product Identity. You 
agree not to indicate compatibility or co-adaptability with 
any Trademark or Registered Trademark in conjunction with 
a work containing Open Game Content except as expressly 
licensed in another, independent Agreement with the owner 
of such Trademark or Registered Trademark. The use of any 
Product Identity in Open Game Content does not constitute a 
challenge to the ownership of that Product Identity. 
The owner of any Product Identity used in Open Game 
Content shall retain all rights, title and interest in and to that 
Product Identity. 
	 8. Identification: If you distribute Open Game Content You 
must clearly indicate which portions of the work that you are 
distributing are Open Game Content. 
	 9. Updating the License: Wizards or its designated Agents 
may publish updated versions of this License. You may use 
any authorized version of this License to copy, modify and 
distribute any Open Game Content originally distributed 
under any version of this License. 
	 10. Copy of this License: You MUST include a copy of this 
License with every copy of the Open Game Content You 
Distribute. 
	 11. Use of Contributor Credits: You may not market or 
advertise the Open Game Content using the name of any 
Contributor unless You have written permission from the 
Contributor to do so. 
	 12. Inability to Comply: If it is impossible for You to comply 
with any of the terms of this License with respect to some or 
all of the Open Game Content due to statute, judicial order, 
or governmental regulation then You may not Use any Open 
Game Material so affected. 
	 13. Termination: This License will terminate automatically if 
You fail to comply with all terms herein and fail to cure such 
breach within 30 days of becoming aware of the breach. All 
sublicenses shall survive the termination of this License. 
	 14. Reformation: If any provision of this License is held to 
be unenforceable, such provision shall be reformed only to 
the extent necessary to make it enforceable. 
	 15. COPYRIGHT NOTICE 
	 Open Game License v 1.0a Copyright 2000, Wizards of the 
Coast, Inc.
	 System Reference Document 5.0 Copyright 2016, 
Wizards of the Coast, Inc.; Authors Mike Mearls, Jeremy 
Crawford, Chris Perkins, Rodney Thompson, Peter Lee, James 
Wyatt, Robert J. Schwalb, Bruce R. Cordell, Chris Sims, and 
Steve Townshend, based on original material by E. Gary 
Gygax and Dave Arneson. 
	 Deep Magic: Elven High Magic © 2016 Open Design; 
Author: Greg Marks.
OPEN GAME LICENSE Version 1.0a
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 11 ---
AN ADVENTURE 
ON EVERY PAGE
Tome of Beasts brings more than 400 new foes  
to 5th Edition, from vicious dungeon vermin  
to earth-shaking personifications of evil!
Every entry comes with full-color art by  
some of the top talent in the industry.  
Here, Game Masters will find:
• Clockwork creatures
• Drakes and dragons
• Devils and arch-devils
• Dangerous flavors of the fey
...and much more! These monsters are ready to  
wreak havoc in any fantasy setting, from  
fan-favorite realms to worlds of your own creation.
Flip to any page in the Tome of Beasts and you’ll  
find an encounter that players won’t soon forget...
Available now from www.KoboldPress.com  
and better game stores everywhere!
©2016 Open Design. Kobold Press logo is a trademark 
of Open Design. 5E bullet is used by kind permission 
of Sasquatch Game Studio.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)