--- PAGE 1 ---
DAN DILLON
5
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 2 ---
2
Credits
Design: Dan Dillon
Development & Editing: Steve Winter
Art Director & Graphic Design: Marc Radle
Cover Art: Marcel Mercado
Interior Art: Marcel Mercado, Bryan Syme
Publisher: Wolfgang Baur
Kobold Press, Midgard, Open Design, and their associated logos are trademarks of Open Design.
Product Identity: The following items are hereby identified as Product Identity, as defined in the Open Game License  
version 1.0a, Section 1(e), and are not Open Content: All trademarks, registered trademarks, proper names (characters,  
place names, new deities, etc.), dialogue, plots, story elements, locations, characters, artwork, sidebars, and trade dress.  
(Elements that have previously been designated as Open Game Content are not included in this declaration.) 
Open Game Content: The Open content in this book includes the Geomancy arcane tradition, both ley line feats,  
and the ley line spells.No other portion of this work may be reproduced in any form without permission.
© 2016 Open Design
www.koboldpress.com
Ley Lines
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 3 ---
3
agic exists in countless forms, from the 
barely detectable to the massively obvious. 
Ley lines naturally bridge the gap between 
the subtle but pervasive source of magic and the 
concrete, applied force that moves mountains. Ley 
“lines” are actually channels where magical power 
flows like an invisible river wending across the 
landscape. They are called lines because length is 
their only measurement that has meaning in this 
dimension. Scholars and sages hotly debate the origin 
of ley lines, but their effects are undeniable.
Ley lines fuel both arcane and divine magic. The 
lines themselves are invisible to normal sight, but 
divination magic quickly reveals their presence. To 
spellcasters trained to find them, ley lines stand out as 
glowing torrents of energy, pulsing bands of light akin 
to aurorae, or glittering strings.
Ley lines are neither homogenous nor ubiquitous. 
Some geographic regions are rich in ley lines while 
others have none to speak of. They course through 
air, water, and solid earth with equal ease, but some 
environments, such as stone and narrow caverns, 
make them difficult to find and to trace.
Ley Line Magic
5
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 4 ---
4
Power of the Land
Ley lines tend to follow the contours of the land they 
flow across. At the same time, the terrain also reacts 
to the magical current. Learned spellcasters, most 
notably geomancer wizards, can study the features 
of an area to determine whether ley lines are present 
and to gain insight into what effects they might 
produce. Creatures with close ties to the land can 
tell the difference between an area graced with a ley 
line and one without. Druids, rangers, woodsmen, 
farmers, even miners and architects have been known 
to learn the telltale signs of a ley line’s presence and 
use them to their advantage.
Natural pathways through the terrain (regardless 
of foliage) are easy channels for ley lines to follow. 
Like water, the magical power of ley lines follows an 
arcane path of least resistance; it’s not uncommon 
for ley lines to follow or closely parallel waterways. 
Enterprising rulers and bold wizards sometimes 
manipulate the land to alter a ley line’s path—or at 
least, try to do so. Such meddling is delicate work, 
and it can have disastrous consequences if the job 
is botched. The benefits are tempting enough to 
outweigh the risk. Specific magical effects or even 
spectacular marvels such as chunks of rock or earth 
held aloft by the flowing power can be engineered via 
expertly channeled ley lines.
Using Ley Lines
Spellcasters can tap ley lines to fill their spells 
with sudden bursts of power. While this can be 
dangerous, a skilled caster can create fantastic effects 
with extra power.
Ley lines vary in intensity from weak trickles to 
titanic torrents of mystical power. In general, the 
more intense the ley line, the more potent its effect 
on magic and the more difficult it is to tap into.
They are also classified as either unlocked or 
locked. These two categories are subjective; a ley line 
is locked only to individual spellcasters who’ve locked 
it, while it remains unlocked to all others. Locked ley 
lines produce predictable, repeatable benefits when 
worked into magic. Unlocked ley lines are no more 
difficult to tap into than locked ones (of the same 
intensity), but they are unpredictable and dangerous 
to use. They also bleed magical energy into the 
surrounding environment, which sometimes causes 
strange, unnatural effects in the neighborhood.
To tap the potential of a ley line requires specialized 
knowledge, represented by either the Ley Initiate 
feat or the Geomancy arcane tradition. If your 
game doesn’t utilize optional feats, you can instead 
allow a spellcaster who has a geomancer tutor or 
who has access to ample research material to learn 
the technique for tapping ley lines via training as a 
downtime activity.
Once a spellcaster understands how to access the 
energy of a ley line, the procedure is straightforward. 
When a spell is cast within 30 feet of a ley line, the 
spellcaster can tap the line’s power to augment his 
or her magic. This requires a successful ability check 
using the caster’s spellcasting ability but without 
including any proficiency bonus. The DC of the 
check equals 10 + the level of the spell being cast. 
A successful check harnesses the power of the ley 
line, and the spell is modified according to the line’s 
intensity (weak, strong, or titanic). If the check fails 
but the result is within 4 of the DC, the spell is cast 
normally with no bonus effect and no penalty. If the 
check fails by 5 or more, the spell is cast normally but 
the spellcaster suffers backlash (see below).
When a ley line is tapped successfully, the effect 
depends on whether the line is locked or unlocked. 
A locked ley line always has the same effect for the 
spellcaster who locked it. An unlocked ley line is 
unpredictable; every time it’s tapped, the player rolls 
1d10 and consults the table corresponding to the ley 
line’s intensity (weak, strong, or titanic).
Ley Lines in Midgard
In the Midgard Campaign Setting, ley lines are an 
inextricable fixture of the world. They crisscross 
most of the surface world, sometimes tunneling 
through it or arcing above it, carrying magical 
power to all corners of the land.
Most importantly, ley lines flow along mystical 
passages that traverse the planes. These passages 
are known as fey roads or shadow roads. Fey 
roads allow impossibly swift travel across 
Midgard, and those who know the secrets of 
their use guard them jealously.
Ley lines have a particularly important place 
to the ramag of the Southlands. A chaotic 
network of atypically unstable ley lines ravages 
the Abandoned Lands where the ramag live, and 
the ramag work diligently to keep them at least 
somewhat under control.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 5 ---
Deep Magic Ley Line Magic
WEAK LEY LINE EFFECTS
d10 Effect
1
If your spell attack misses or if the target makes a successful saving throw, you can choose a new target 
within 10 feet of the original target and within range. Make a new attack roll with disadvantage, or the new 
target makes a saving throw with advantage.
2
You can delay the effect of your spell for up to 5 rounds. Choose how many rounds you want the spell to delay 
at the moment it’s cast. The spell takes effect at the start of your turn that many rounds later. All parameters 
regarding the spell’s targeting, area, color, etc., must be set when the spell is cast, not when it takes effect.
3
If your spell deals acid, cold, fire, lightning, or thunder damage, you can change the damage to one of the 
other listed types.
4
If your spell affects multiple creatures, choose one. That creature has disadvantage on any saving throw it 
makes against the spell.
5
Double the range of your spell.
6
A creature that takes cold damage from your spell is restrained until the end of its next turn.
7
Creatures damaged by your spell are also deafened for 1 minute. A deafened creature makes a Constitution 
saving throw at the end of its turn to end the deafness effect.
8
Cast your spell without verbal components.
9
A creature damaged by your spell is also knocked prone unless it makes a successful Strength saving throw.
10
Roll twice on this table (treat duplicate results as “no additional effect”), or roll once on the Strong Ley 
Line Effects table.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 6 ---
6
STRONG LEY LINE EFFECTS
d10
Effect
1
You can reroll a number of damage dice up to your spellcasting ability modifier (minimum of 1).
2
Treat your spell as if it were cast with a spell slot one level higher.
3
Creatures damaged by your spell are also poisoned for 1 minute. A poisoned creature makes a 
Constitution saving throw at the end of its turn to end the poisoning effect.
4
You regain 1d6 hit points per level of the spell.
5
Your spell ignores damage resistance.
6
A creature that takes acid or fire damage from your spell takes an additional 3d6 damage of the same type 
at the start of its next turn.
7
Targets of your spell have disadvantage on their saving throws against it.
8
You can choose to exclude any creature you can see from the area of your spell.
9
If your spell has a range of self, you can cast it as a touch spell instead.
10
Roll twice on this table (treat duplicate results as “no additional effect”), or roll once on the Titanic Ley 
Line Effects table.
TITANIC LEY LINE EFFECTS
d10 Effect
1
If your spell affects only one target, it instead affects up to six targets of your choice.
2
If your spell affects an area, double the area’s size.
3
Creatures affected by your spell are incapacitated for 1 minute. An incapacitated creature makes a Wisdom 
saving throw at the end of its turn to end the incapacitation effect.
4
You gain a +5 bonus to your AC until the start of your next turn.
5
Casting your spell this turn uses only a bonus action; you still have an action to use.
6
Creatures immune to the damage of your spell take half damage instead.
7
Treat your spell as if it were cast with a spell slot two levels higher.
8
Concentration on your spell can’t be broken by damage.
9
A creature damaged by your spell is pushed 10 feet away from you and knocked prone. Its speed is reduced 
to 0 until it makes a successful Constitution saving throw at the start of its turn.
10
Choose one effect listed above.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 7 ---
Deep Magic Ley Lines
7
LEY LINE BACKLASH
d10 Effect
1
The spell produces only a harmless display of bright color and loud noise.
2
You are incapacitated until the end of your next turn.
3
You fall unconscious for 1 minute. You awake if you take damage or if another creature uses an action to 
shake you awake.
4
The next spell you cast fails, and the spell slot is wasted.
5
Targets have advantage on saving throws against your spells for 1 hour.
6
For 1 hour, you must make a DC 10 Constitution saving throw every time you cast a spell. If the saving 
throw fails, the spell fails and the spell slot is wasted.
7
You take 2d6 force damage per level of the spell that caused the backlash (cantrips cause 1d6 damage).
8
You lose one spell slot of your highest available level, and all charged magic items in your possession lose 
1d4 charges.
9
Your spell fails, and you unleash a random burst of magic as if you’d used a wand of wonder.
10
You lose all your remaining spell slots, the ley line disappears for 24 hours, and all charged magic items in your 
possession fully recharge. You must make a successful DC 20 Charisma saving throw or fall unconscious; you 
awaken after 1 hour, if you take damage, or if another creature uses an action to shake you awake.
Feats
The following feats offer options for character to channel the power of ley lines. At the GM’s discretion, a 
spellcaster who possesses a ley line feat can learn ley line spells without finding them in written form.
LEY-BOUND
You instinctively feel the flow of ley line energy 
and draw insight from it. You gain the following 
benefits:
• Increase your Wisdom score by 1, to a maximum 
of 20.
• You have advantage on Wisdom (Survival) checks 
made to track a creature overland or to forage for 
food and water.
• When you finish a long rest within 1 mile of a 
ley line, you gain inspiration. If unused, this 
inspiration fades away after your next long rest.
• When you finish a long rest within 1 mile 
of a ley line, you can infuse ley energy into a 
token in your possession. If you make a saving 
throw while you have the infused token in your 
possession, you can use your reaction to roll a d4 
and add the result to your saving throw. You can 
trigger this ability after rolling the d20 but before 
success or failure is revealed. You can’t use this 
ability again until you finish a long rest.
LEY INITIATE
Prerequisite: Intelligence or Wisdom 13 or higher
You see ley lines and can draw on their power. You 
gain the following benefits:
• Increase your Intelligence or Wisdom score by 1, 
to a maximum of 20.
• You can sense the presence of every ley line within 
1 mile of your location. If you have line of sight to 
the line itself, it’s visible to you in some obviously 
magical fashion.
• You can tap ley lines for their inherent powers.
• When you finish a short rest within 1 mile of a 
ley line, you can regain one expended spell slot 
whose level is no higher than your Intelligence 
or Wisdom modifier (your choice, minimum of 
1st level). You can’t use this ability again until you 
finish a long rest.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 8 ---
8
While you are bound to a ley line, you can channel 
the power of the line into your spellcasting from any 
distance, as long as you are on the same plane as the 
ley line. You can use this feature a number of times 
equal to your Intelligence modifier (a minimum of 
once). You regain all expended uses when you finish a 
long rest.
Arcane Tradition: Geomancy
While any spellcaster can tap the potential coursing 
through ley lines, the tradition of geomancy teaches 
the art of becoming like a ley line and bonding with 
the great flow of power. Geomancy is sometimes 
looked down on by adherents of traditions that 
focus on individual magic schools because it eschews 
specialization in favor of molding any form of magic 
through the focused power of ley lines.
Geomancers have an increased facility for 
tapping into any ley line, but they also learn to 
bind themselves to a specific ley line. While other 
spellcasters must be within a ley line’s area of 
influence to use it, the geomancer becomes a 
tributary of his or her chosen river of power, 
capable of siphoning its power anywhere.
LEY LINE SAVANT
Beginning when you select this tradition at 
2nd level, the gold and time you must spend 
to copy a ley line spell into your 
spellbook is halved.
When you gain a level, one 
of the two spells you learn for 
gaining a level can be a ley line 
magic spell, even if you’ve never 
encountered it before.
Additionally, you can sense the presence of ley 
lines within 1 mile. As an action, you can discern 
the intensity of the nearest ley line and the 
direction and distance to it.
CHANNEL LEY LINE
Starting at 2nd level, you learn 
to tap the power of ley lines 
to augment your spellcasting, 
as described under “Using 
Ley Lines.”
Additionally, when you 
finish a short or long rest within 
1 mile of a weak ley line, you can 
bind yourself to that ley line. You 
can be bound to only one ley line 
at a time. If you later bind 
yourself to a second ley 
line, you lose your 
connection to the 
previous one.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 9 ---
Deep Magic Ley Lines
9
LEY LINE MANIPULATION
Beginning at 6th level, when you augment your magic 
with power from a ley line, you can reroll the effect of 
an unlocked ley line or the result of a backlash. You 
must use the rerolled result. After rerolling, you can’t 
use a reaction until the end of your next turn.
LEY LINE ADEPT
Starting at 10th level, you can bind yourself to weak or 
strong ley lines with your Channel Ley Line feature.
In addition, you add your proficiency bonus to the 
ability check when tapping a ley line for power.  
LEY LINE MASTERY
At 14th level, you can bind yourself to weak, strong, or 
titanic ley lines with your Channel Ley Line feature, 
and you have advantage on the ability check to tap the 
ley line.
As an action, you can lock or unlock a ley line within 
30 feet of you. When you lock a ley line, choose one of 
its effects; the ley line will always have that effect for 
you while it remains locked. Once you use this feature 
to lock or unlock a ley line, you can’t do so again until 
you finish a number of long rests depending on the 
intensity of the line: one for a weak ley line, two for 
strong, and three for titanic.
Ley Spell List
The following spells are available to druids, sorcerers, 
warlocks, and wizards. Ley spells can be learned only 
by discovering written versions of them, unless the 
GM allows otherwise.
New Spells
Whenever a description refers to casting a spell 
“within the influence of a ley line” or uses words to 
that effect, it refers to instances when the caster must 
roll on one of the ley line effects tables or receives 
the fixed effect of a locked ley line, unless something 
different is specified. Usually this requires being 
within 30 feet of the ley line (see “Using Ley Lines,” 
above), but some spells allow greater ranges.
AMPLIFY LEY FIELD
5th-level evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self (10-foot-radius sphere)
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You create a faintly shimmering field of charged 
energy around yourself. Within that area, the intensity 
of ley lines you’re able to draw on increases from weak 
to strong, or from strong to titanic.
If no ley lines are near enough for you to draw on, 
you can treat the area of the spell itself as an unlocked, 
weak ley line.
DISRUPTIVE AURA
8th-level evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 150 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Warping, prismatic auras surround and outline each 
creature inside a 10-foot cube within range. The auras 
shed dim light to 10 feet, and the outlines reveal 
hidden and invisible creatures. If an affected creature 
casts a spell or activates a magic item, it must make a 
Wisdom saving throw. On a success, the spell or magic 
item functions normally. On a failure, the magic effect 
is suppressed for the duration of the aura. Time spent 
suppressed counts fully against the duration of the 
spell or magic item effect.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell 
slot of 9th level, the size of the cube increases to 20 
feet per side.
ENERGY ABSORPTION
5th-level abjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
For the duration, a willing creature you touch has 
resistance to acid, cold, fire, force, lightning, and 
thunder damage.
1ST LEVEL
Land Bond
2ND LEVEL
Ley Disruption
3RD LEVEL
Ley Energy Bolt
Ley Sense
4TH LEVEL
Ray of Life Suppression
5TH LEVEL
Amplify Ley Field
Energy Absorption
Lesser Ley Pulse
Ley Leech
6TH LEVEL
Ley Whip
7TH LEVEL
Greater Ley Pulse
Volley Shield
8TH LEVEL
Disruptive Aura
9TH LEVEL
Ley Storm
Ley Surge
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 10 ---
10
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a 
9th-level spell slot, choose two damage types instead 
of one.
LAND BOND
1st-level transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (soil taken from a ley-
influenced area)
Duration: 1 hour
You touch a willing creature and infuse it with 
ley energy, creating a bond between the creature 
and the land. For the duration of the spell, if the 
target is in contact with the ground, the target has 
advantage on saving throws and ability checks made 
to avoid being moved or knocked prone against its 
will. Additionally, the creature ignores nonmagical 
difficult terrain and is immune to effects from 
extreme environments such as heat, cold (but not 
cold or fire damage), and altitude.
If the spell is used against an unwilling creature, 
you must make a melee spell attack with a range of 5 
feet. If it hits, then for the duration of the spell, the 
affected creature must make a saving throw with 
its spellcasting ability whenever it casts a spell that 
causes one of the listed damage types. If the saving 
throw fails, the spell fails and its slot is wasted; if the 
saving throw succeeds, the spell is cast but its damage 
is halved before applying the effects of saving throws, 
resistance, etc.
GREATER LEY PULSE
7th-level transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You set up ley energy vibrations in a 20-foot cube 
within range, and name one type of damage. Each 
creature in the area must succeed on a Wisdom saving 
throw or lose immunity to the chosen damage type 
for the duration.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 11 ---
Deep Magic Ley Lines
11
LESSER LEY PULSE
5th-level transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You set up ley energy vibrations in a 10-foot cube 
within range, and name one type of damage. Each 
creature in the area must make a successful Wisdom 
saving throw or lose resistance to the chosen damage 
type for the duration of the spell.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a 
7th-level spell slot, choose two damage types instead 
of one.
LEY DISRUPTION
2nd-level evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 50 feet
Components: V, S, M (a chip of broken crystal 
infused with ley energy)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You create a 15-foot-radius sphere filled with 
disruptive ley energy. The sphere is centered around 
a point you can see within range. Surfaces inside the 
sphere shift erratically, becoming difficult terrain for 
the duration. Any creature that starts its turn in the 
area or enters the area for the first time on a turn must 
succeed on a Strength saving throw or fall prone. If 
you cast this spell in an area within the influence of a 
ley line, creatures have disadvantage on their saving 
throws against its effect.
Special. A geomancer with a bound ley line is 
“within the influence of a ley line” for purposes of ley 
disruption as long as he or she is on the same plane as 
the bound line.
LEY ENERGY BOLT
3rd-level evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self (100-foot line)
Components: S, M (a ley-infused pebble)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You transform ambient ley power into a crackling bolt 
of energy 100 feet long and 5 feet wide. Each creature 
in the line takes 5d8 force damage, or half damage 
with a successful Dexterity saving throw.
The bolt passes through the first inanimate object in 
its path, and creatures on the other side of the obstacle 
receive no bonus to their saving throw from cover. The 
bolt stops if it strikes a second object.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell 
slot of 4th level or higher, the bolt’s damage increases 
by 1d8 for each slot level above 3rd.
LEY LEECH
5th-level necromancy
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
You channel destructive ley energy through your 
touch. Make a melee spell attack against a creature 
within your reach. The target takes 8d10 necrotic 
damage and must succeed on a Constitution saving 
throw or have disadvantage on attack rolls, saving 
throws, and ability checks. An affected creature 
repeats the saving throw at the end of its turn, ending 
the effect on itself with a success.
This spell has no effect against constructs or undead.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell 
slot of 6th level or higher, the spell’s damage increases 
by 1d10 for each slot level above 5th.
LEY SENSE
3rd-level divination
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You tune your senses to the pulse of ambient ley 
energy flowing through the world. For the duration, 
you gain tremorsense with a range of 20 feet and you 
are instantly aware of the presence of any ley line 
within 5 miles. You know the distance and direction to 
every ley line within that range.
LEY STORM
9th-level conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Sight
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
A roiling stormcloud of ley energy forms, centered 
around a point you can see and extending horizontally 
to a radius of 360 feet, with a thickness of 30 feet. 
Shifting color shoots through the writhing cloud, 
and thunder roars out of it. Each creature under the 
cloud at the moment when it’s created (no more than 
5,000 feet beneath it) takes 2d6 thunder damage and 
is deafened for 5 minutes; a successful Constitution 
saving throw negates both effects.
Each round you maintain concentration on this 
spell, the storm produces additional effects on your 
turn.
Round 2. Ley-infused pebbles rain from the cloud, 
causing 1d6 bludgeoning damage to everything 
beneath it (no saving throw).
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 12 ---
12
Round 3. Up to six bolts of ley energy leap from 
the cloud to strike creatures or objects of your 
choice beneath the cloud. No creature or object 
can be struck by more than one bolt. A creature 
struck takes 8d8 force damage, or half damage 
with a successful Dexterity saving throw.
Round 4. A burst of prismatic light fills a 20-foot 
sphere centered on a point beneath the cloud. All 
creatures in the sphere are affected as if targeted 
by a disruptive aura spell.
Rounds 5-10. Flashes of multicolored light burst 
through and out of the cloud, causing creatures 
to have disadvantage on Wisdom (Perception) 
checks that rely on sight while they are beneath 
the cloud. In addition, each round, you trigger a 
burst of energy that fills a 20-foot sphere centered 
on a point you can see beneath the cloud. Each 
creature in the sphere takes 4d8 force damage (no 
saving throw).
Special. A geomancer who casts this spell regains 
4d10 hit points.
LEY SURGE
9th-level evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 150 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
You unleash the power of a ley line within 5 miles, 
releasing a spark that flares into a 30-foot sphere 
centered around a point within 150 feet of you. Each 
creature in the sphere takes 14d6 force damage and 
is stunned for 1 minute; a successful Constitution 
saving throw halves the damage and negates the stun. 
A stunned creature repeats the saving throw at the 
end of its turn, ending the effect on itself on a success.
Special. A geomancer with a bound ley line can cast 
this spell as long as he or she is on the same plane as 
the bound line.
LEY WHIP
6th-level evocation
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 minute
You channel the power of a ley line within 1 mile into 
a crackling tendril of multicolored ley energy. The 
tendril extends from your hand but doesn’t interfere 
with your ability to hold or manipulate objects. When 
you cast the spell and as a bonus action on subsequent 
turns, you can direct the tendril to strike a target 
within 50 feet of you. Make a melee spell attack; on a 
hit, the tendril does 3d8 force damage and the target 
must make a Strength saving throw. If the saving 
throw fails, you can push the target away or pull it 
closer, up to 10 feet in either direction.
Special. A geomancer with a bound ley line can cast 
this spell as long as he or she is on the same plane as 
the bound line.
RAY OF LIFE SUPPRESSION
4th-level necromancy
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
You launch a swirling ray of disruptive ley energy at a 
creature within range. Make a ranged spell attack. On 
a hit, the creature takes 6d8 necrotic damage and its 
maximum hit points are reduced by an equal amount. 
This reduction lasts until the creature finishes a short 
or long rest, or benefits from a greater restoration spell 
or comparable magic.
This spell has no effect on constructs or undead.
VOLLEY SHIELD
7th-level abjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute.
You touch a willing creature and create a shimmering 
shield of ley energy to protect it. The shield grants the 
target a +5 AC bonus and gives it resistance against 
nonmagical bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing 
damage for the duration.
In addition, the shield can reflect hostile spells back 
at their casters. When the target makes a successful 
saving throw against a hostile spell, the caster of the 
spell immediately becomes its new target. The caster 
is entitled to the appropriate saving throw against the 
returned spell, if any, and suffers all effects the spell 
normally causes.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 13 ---
Deep Magic Ley Lines
13
The following text is the property of Wizards of the Coast, Inc. 
and is Copyright 2000 Wizards of the Coast, Inc (“Wizards”). 
All Rights Reserved. 
	 1. Definitions: (a)”Contributors” means the copyright and/
or trademark owners who have contributed Open Game 
Content; (b)”Derivative Material” means copyrighted material 
including derivative works and translations (including into 
other computer languages), potation, modification, correction, 
addition, extension, upgrade, improvement, compilation, 
abridgment or other form in which an existing work may 
be recast, transformed or adapted; (c) “Distribute” means 
to reproduce, license, rent, lease, sell, broadcast, publicly 
display, transmit or otherwise distribute; (d)”Open Game 
Content” means the game mechanic and includes the 
methods, procedures, processes and routines to the extent 
such content does not embody the Product Identity and is an 
enhancement over the prior art and any additional content 
clearly identified as Open Game Content by the Contributor, 
and means any work covered by this License, including 
translations and derivative works under copyright law, but 
specifically excludes Product Identity. (e) “Product Identity” 
means product and product line names, logos and identifying 
marks including trade dress; artifacts; creatures characters; 
stories, storylines, plots, thematic elements, dialogue, 
incidents, language, artwork, symbols, designs, depictions, 
likenesses, formats, poses, concepts, themes and graphic, 
photographic and other visual or audio representations; 
names and descriptions of characters, spells, enchantments, 
personalities, teams, personas, likenesses and special 
abilities; places, locations, environments, creatures, 
equipment, magical or supernatural abilities or effects, logos, 
symbols, or graphic designs; and any other trademark or 
registered trademark clearly identified as Product identity 
by the owner of the Product Identity, and which specifically 
excludes the Open Game Content; (f) “Trademark” means 
the logos, names, mark, sign, motto, designs that are used 
by a Contributor to identify itself or its products or the 
associated products contributed to the Open Game License 
by the Contributor (g) “Use”, “Used” or “Using” means to use, 
Distribute, copy, edit, format, modify, translate and otherwise 
create Derivative Material of Open Game Content. (h) “You” or 
“Your” means the licensee in terms of this agreement. 
	 2. The License: This License applies to any Open Game 
Content that contains a notice indicating that the Open Game 
Content may only be Used under and in terms of this License. 
You must affix such a notice to any Open Game Content 
that you Use. No terms may be added to or subtracted from 
this License except as described by the License itself. No 
other terms or conditions may be applied to any Open Game 
Content distributed using this License. 
	 3. Offer and Acceptance: By Using the Open Game Content 
You indicate Your acceptance of the terms of this License. 
4. Grant and Consideration: In consideration for agreeing 
to use this License, the Contributors grant You a perpetual, 
worldwide, royalty-free, non-exclusive license with the exact 
terms of this License to Use, the Open Game Content. 
	 5. Representation of Authority to Contribute: If You are 
contributing original material as Open Game Content, You 
represent that Your Contributions are Your original creation 
and/ or You have sufficient rights to grant the rights conveyed 
by this License. 
	 6. Notice of License Copyright: You must update the 
COPYRIGHT NOTICE portion of this License to include the 
exact text of the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any Open Game 
Content You are copying, modifying or distributing, and You 
must add the title, the copyright date, and the copyright 
holder’s name to the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any original Open 
Game Content you Distribute. 
	 7. Use of Product Identity: You agree not to Use any Product 
Identity, including as an indication as to compatibility, except 
as expressly licensed in another, independent Agreement 
with the owner of each element of that Product Identity. You 
agree not to indicate compatibility or co-adaptability with 
any Trademark or Registered Trademark in conjunction with 
a work containing Open Game Content except as expressly 
licensed in another, independent Agreement with the owner 
of such Trademark or Registered Trademark. The use of any 
Product Identity in Open Game Content does not constitute a 
challenge to the ownership of that Product Identity. 
The owner of any Product Identity used in Open Game 
Content shall retain all rights, title and interest in and to that 
Product Identity. 
	 8. Identification: If you distribute Open Game Content You 
must clearly indicate which portions of the work that you are 
distributing are Open Game Content. 
	 9. Updating the License: Wizards or its designated Agents 
may publish updated versions of this License. You may use 
any authorized version of this License to copy, modify and 
distribute any Open Game Content originally distributed 
under any version of this License. 
	 10. Copy of this License: You MUST include a copy of this 
License with every copy of the Open Game Content You 
Distribute. 
	 11. Use of Contributor Credits: You may not market or 
advertise the Open Game Content using the name of any 
Contributor unless You have written permission from the 
Contributor to do so. 
	 12. Inability to Comply: If it is impossible for You to comply 
with any of the terms of this License with respect to some or 
all of the Open Game Content due to statute, judicial order, 
or governmental regulation then You may not Use any Open 
Game Material so affected. 
	 13. Termination: This License will terminate automatically if 
You fail to comply with all terms herein and fail to cure such 
breach within 30 days of becoming aware of the breach. All 
sublicenses shall survive the termination of this License. 
	 14. Reformation: If any provision of this License is held to 
be unenforceable, such provision shall be reformed only to 
the extent necessary to make it enforceable. 
	 15. COPYRIGHT NOTICE 
	 Open Game License v 1.0a Copyright 2000, Wizards of the 
Coast, Inc.
	 System Reference Document 5.0 Copyright 2016, 
Wizards of the Coast, Inc.; Authors Mike Mearls, Jeremy 
Crawford, Chris Perkins, Rodney Thompson, Peter Lee, James 
Wyatt, Robert J. Schwalb, Bruce R. Cordell, Chris Sims, and 
Steve Townshend, based on original material by E. Gary 
Gygax and Dave Arneson. 
	 Deep Magic: Ley Line Magic © 2016 Open Design; 
Author: Dan Dillon.
OPEN GAME LICENSE Version 1.0a
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 14 ---
AN ADVENTURE 
ON EVERY PAGE
Tome of Beasts brings more than 400 new foes  
to 5th Edition, from vicious dungeon vermin to 
earth-shaking personifications of evil!
Every entry comes with full-color art by some  
of the top talent in the industry. Here,  
Dungeon Masters will find:
• Clockwork creatures
• Drakes and dragons
• Devils and arch-devils
• Dangerous flavors of the fey
...and much more! These monsters are ready to  
wreak havoc in any fantasy setting, from  
fan-favorite realms to worlds of your own creation.
Flip to any page in the Tome of Beasts and you’ll  
find an encounter that players won’t soon forget...
Available now from www.KoboldPress.com  
and better game stores everywhere!
©2016 Open Design. Kobold Press logo is a trademark 
of Open Design. 5E bullet is used by kind permission 
of Sasquatch Game Studio.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)