--- PAGE 1 ---
BY WOLFGANG BAUR & CELESTE CONOWITCH
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 2 ---
2
DESIGN  
Wolfgang Baur, Celeste Conowitch
ADDITIONAL DESIGN  
Richard Green, Sarah Madsen, Kelly Pawlik,  
Brian Suskind
DEVELOPMENT AND EDITING 
Scott Gable
PROOFREADING 
Jeff Quick
COVER ARTIST
Marcel Mercado
LIMITED EDITION COVER ARTIST
Addison Rankin
INTERIOR ARTISTS
George Johnstone,  Mike Pape, David Auden Nash, 
William O’Brien, Roberto Pitturru, Addison Rankin, 
Kiki Moch Rizki, Florian Stitz, Bryan Syme,  
Egil Thompson, Alexander Yakovlev
CARTOGRAPHY 
Jon Pintar, Samantha Senn, Dean Spencer
GRAPHIC DESIGN
Marc Radle
LAYOUT
Marc Radle
ADDITIONAL LAYOUT
Amber Seger
FANTASY GROUNDS DIGITAL EDITION
Linda Buth
ROLL20 DIGITAL EDITION
Nic Bradley
SHARD TABLETOP DIGITAL EDITION
Hal Howard
DIRECTOR OF DIGITAL GROWTH
Blaine McNutt
ART DIRECTOR
Marc Radle
EDITORIAL DIRECTOR
Thomas M. Reid
DIRECTOR OF OPERATIONS
T. Alexander Stangroom
SALES MANAGER
Kym Weiler
COMMUNITY MANAGER
Victoria Rogers
TWITCH PRODUCER
Chelsea “Dot” Steverson
PUBLISHER
Wolfgang Baur
Credits
A special thanks to the designers and contributors to earlier printings of some material that 
appears in this book, including, but not limited to: Wolfgang Baur and Dan Dillon
AN EXTRA SPECIAL THANKS TO THE 2,706 BACKERS  
WHO MADE THIS VOLUME POSSIBLE!
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 3 ---
3
Product Identity: The following items are hereby identified as Product Identity, as defined in the  
Open Game License version 1.0a, Section 1(e), and are not Open Content: All trademarks, registered 
trademarks, proper names (characters, place names, new deities, etc.), dialogue, plots, story elements, 
locations, characters, artwork, sidebars, and trade dress.  
(Elements that have previously been designated as Open Game Content are not included in this declaration.)
Midgard and Kobold Press are trademarks of Open Design LLC. All rights reserved.
Open Game Content: The Open Content includes the races and magic items (excluding all place names and 
specific character references, such as gods and NPCs). All other material is Product Identity, especially place 
names, character names, locations, story elements, sidebars, background, and fiction.No other portion of 
this work may be reproduced in any form without permission.
 ©2022 Open Design LLC. All rights reserved.
www.koboldpress.com 
PO Box 2811 | Kirkland, WA 98083
Printed in China
ISBN: 978-1-950789-33-7
Limited Edition: 978-1-950789-35-1
2 4 6 8 10 9 7 5 3 1
ON THE COVER
A bearfolk druid and a shadow fey rogue 
stand before a warding stone, safeguarding a 
changeling baby on their travels through the 
shadowy forest in this art by Marcel Mercado.
Tactical Maps  
for the Shadow Realm
The maps in the back of this book include a fey 
village, a shadow road, a stretch of the River Styx, and 
other areas with the twilight shades and native flora 
emblematic of the Shadow Realm. The maps can be 
used for any encounter on the plane to enhance its 
shadowy atmosphere and fey landscapes. 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 4 ---
4
Table of Contents
1
3
2
4
Introduction........................................................ 6
1 Overview and History..................................... 7
Elements of Shadow......................................... 7
A Brief History of Shadow.................................8
A Land of Ebon Tides...................................... 12
Oak, Road, and Stone......................................13
Shadow Realm in Motion. .............................. 16
Five High Holidays of Shadow........................ 16
Etiquette and Status in the Shadow Realm.......20
2 Umbral People and Heroes.......................... 22
Bearfolk..........................................................22
Darakhul........................................................24
Shadow Fey .................................................... 27
Shadow Goblins .............................................29
Umbral Humans.............................................30
Other Peoples of the Shadow Realm................ 32
3 Heroes from the Shadows............................ 41
4 Magic in the Shadow Realm......................... 51
The Magic of  Shadow and Light ......................51
Spells Lists...................................................... 54
Spell Descriptions........................................... 56
5 The Nature of Shadow.................................. 72
Moons, Stars, and Sky..................................... 72
Animals and Encounters................................. 73
Food and Water. ............................................. 73
Methods for Entering Shadow........................ 74
Hazards of the Shadow Realm. ........................75
Shadow Corruption........................................76
Traveling on Shadow Roads............................ 77
Navigating the Black River..............................79
Lost Lands and Shifting Destinations............. 81
6 Fey Courts and Servitors ............................ 83
What is a Fey Court?. ...................................... 83
Corremel, the City of Lanterns. ......................84
Court of Golden Oaks..................................... 95
Court of Mice and Ravens ..............................98
Court of Midnight Teeth ................................99
Court of Night and Magic ............................102
Court of One Million Stars ........................... 105
Court of Pale Roses ...................................... 107
Court of Sparrows. ....................................... 108
Court of the Moonlit King............................109
Court of Winter’s Love ................................. 110
Dalliance . .................................................... 110
Langmire’s Court. .........................................112
Nightbrook. ..................................................113
Tower of Horn and Gold ...............................114
Witch Queen’s Court. ....................................114
7 Realms Beyond the Courts ........................117
Fandeval, City of Goblins ..............................117
Groves of the Wardens . ................................120
Merrymead, City of Revels............................ 122
Moonlit Glades .............................................123
Oshragora, the City Fallen into Shadow .........127
Soriglass, City of Shades ................................131
Tenebrous Plain ........................................... 134
Twilight Empire ............................................135
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 5 ---
5
5
8
6
7
9
1010
8 Umbral Pantheon .........................................140
Great Gods of the Umbral Pantheon.............140
Godlings of the Shadow Realm. .................... 148
Dark Gods of the Shadow Realm....................156
9 Monsters and NPCs......................................164
Bearfolk Druid. ............................................ 164
Bearfolk Thunderstomper..............................165
Birch Siren.................................................... 166
Darakhul General..........................................167
Gnomish Distiller......................................... 168
Keeper of Hounds......................................... 170
Keeper of Ravens...........................................171
Knight of Shadows.........................................171
Lesser Lunar Devil.........................................172
Memory Thief................................................174
Molefolk. ......................................................175
Moonshadow Catcher. ................................. 176
Oma Rattenfanger, Keeper of the Plain. .........177
Radiant Lord ................................................178
River Giant................................................... 180
River Spirit................................................... 182
Rose Golem...................................................183
Sable Elf....................................................... 184
Sable Elf Hierophant.....................................185
Shadow Fey Bandit. ...................................... 186
Shadow Goblin Chieftain...............................187
Shadow Goblin Scribe....................................188
Shadowspider Swarm. .................................. 189
Umbral Tailor...............................................190
Wandering Pond............................................191
10 Magic Items and Trickery........................193
Random Tables for Magic Items.....................193
Apparel..........................................................195
Armor ...........................................................197
Illusion Seeds............................................... 199
Memory Philters...........................................202
Potions, Scrolls, and Wondrous Items...........204
Rings, Rods, Staves, and Wands. ...................207
Weapons.......................................................209
Appendix: Life in the Shadow Realm..........211
Magic of the Fey.............................................211
Trickery and Whimsy.....................................213
Life in Shadows. ............................................215
Appendix: Shadow Realm Encounters .......223
Appendix: Shadow Realm  
Creatures by Terrain.....................................233
Tactical Maps for the Shadow Realm.......247
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 6 ---
6
Book of Ebon Tides
Introduction
Pitter patter pitter patter
Run run run child
Dive beneath the shadows now
Or seek shelter in the trees.
It will avail you nothing
The shadow fey are coming 
With their hounds and their arrows and bright silver spears
Though you be the canniest fox or the swiftest hawk
They will find you and bring you to their dark queen
Woven deep in her shadow court
Run child run
Find your shelter and hold still as death
The shadow fey are coming!
This book explores the Shadow Realm and 
attempts to define it, as understood by its 
inhabitants. Its people and their gods, its magic and 
the distinctive way it works in the world, and even 
the monsters, nations, and great cities of the Shadow 
Realm are all defined here. Perhaps defined a bit 
more than the inhabitants themselves would like, 
for they prefer to slip always from one definition to 
another, to a slightly more favorable one—as the 
mood strikes them.
Welcome to the Shadow Realm. 
Its high-flown powers and its 
lowborn scoundrels alike have 
a proposal for you: swear 
your sword and wands to 
their cause and shift the 
ebon tides in their favor. 
Join us in the shadows!
Wolfgang Baur
Kirkland, WA 
November 2021
Shadow is everything and nothing. It is gloom and 
delight. If you try to seize it, it ripples away, laughing.
So yes, the Plane of Shadows is an uncertain 
place—which makes it a very difficult place to 
define and capture in maps and descriptions, in 
known quantities or certainties. Everyone knows 
that the demonic creatures of the hells are vile and 
secure in their malice. Likewise, the shining angels 
of the celestial halls are unyielding in their eternal 
pilgrimage for righteousness and law. These realms 
are well known and understood, though one is bright 
and the other stygian.
The creatures of shadow are far less defined and 
far more flexible—and no less dangerous for all 
that. Even their language, Umbral, is a fluid thing, 
full of double meanings and wordplay. They resist 
definitions, but their malleable, quicksilver nature 
defines them. You should always trust the word of an 
angel, rarely given but given with certainty. The word 
of a shadow creature, however, is given quickly and 
easily but broken just as readily.
Creatures of the Shadow Realm are like unto 
shadows themselves, flickering and shifting with 
the sun and moon, changing and moving. And their 
realm is also a place of frequent change, including 
the violent overthrow of courts and dynasties and 
the slow erosion of places by the shifting ebon tides, 
drifting like sandbars or vanishing like a hillside 
after the rains. 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 7 ---
Book of Ebon Tides
For such a vast realm, surprisingly little is known 
about the Plane of Shadow, often also called the 
Shadow Realm. Herewith, a short précis and 
overview for those who have not previously drunk 
deep of its twilight power. The whole plane is often 
described as a distortion and a shadow of the mortal 
realm, and certainly there are resemblances, as 
any shadow resembles its source and origin—and 
dark reflections and mirrored echoes are frequent 
enough. No shadow exists without a light and a 
source, after all.
At the same time, parts of the Shadow Realm 
are distinct unto the plane itself, especially those 
portions worked by shadow fey, goblins, bearfolk, 
humans, and darakhul as their realms and kingdoms. 
These places have been shaped by magic, as creatures 
manipulated the raw material of shadow into lands 
and settlements that please their makers. Great 
mages and clerics bend the land and the structures 
upon it into new forms, and the Shadow Realm 
itself often alters its own shape and direction in 
unpredictable ways.
Elements of Shadow
Here are the elements of the Shadow Realm covered 
in this volume.
Overview of Shadow Realm’s Nature and Travel. 
A short history of what the Shadow Realm is, how it 
became an inhabited plane, and various questions of 
its lore.
Umbral People and Heroes. The peoples of 
the Shadow Realm are surprisingly many for such 
a strange plane. Shadow fey and darakhul find it 
congenial, as do sable elves, wyrd gnomes, bearfolk, 
shadow goblins, umbral humans, and even the small 
erina and alseid more commonly found in deep 
forests. With relatively few cities and wide stretches of 
wilderness, the Shadow Realm is not a place of great 
kingdoms but rather small settlements and fiefdoms 
loosely bound to charismatic kings and queens. The 
various peoples and heroes of the Shadow Realm can 
be found in Chapter 2 and Chapter 3.
Overview and History
Overview and History
1
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 8 ---
8
Book of Ebon Tides
Shadow Magic. A discussion of the nature of 
umbral magic, plus new spells of illumination, 
trickery, and shadow. Chapter 4 also includes all-new 
fey magic and bits of weather magic and an expansion 
of the school of dooms.
Land, Water, and Shadow Walking. The Shadow 
Realm itself is best known to mortals through the 
shadow roads, the shortcuts the fey take from one 
place to another through shadow. These roads 
have their own rituals, guardians, and mysteries, as 
described in Chapter 5. This chapter also includes a 
discussion of the Black River Styx and other hazards.
Shadow Realm and the Courts of the Fey. The 
Shadow Realm is ruled by undead, fey, and a scattered 
group of their allies and friends. They create regions 
where the shadow stuff of the plane is relatively 
stable, where crops grow and magic flows normally 
and where roads are stable. The realms of the fey 
are described in Chapter 6, and the realms of the 
bearfolk, darakhul, shades, and humans in Chapter 7.
Umbral Pantheon. Some gods of the Shadow 
Realm are familiar to mortals, though many have 
slightly different features, and they rely more on 
shadow goblins and shadow fey than the human 
pantheons do. Bengta the Bear Maiden is a power 
here and so is Ailuros—clearly a form of Bastet—and 
Hecate and Charun. Additionally, minor godlings 
rise and fall with some frequency, including the many 
Santerr, once-mortal figures raised to an immortal 
sainthood through the devotion of their followers and 
twilight magic. Of course, it must be noted that demon 
lords and dark gods are common here, often gathering 
great power for a time. Vardesain and Alquam both 
have large followings, as does a distinct form of Loki. 
All these can be found in detail in Chapter 8.
Shadow Creatures. The monsters of the Shadow 
Realm—including quicksteps and fey sorcerers as 
well as undead, exquisite rose golems, birch sirens, 
and other oddities from the shadow forests and 
quicksilver marshes—are provided in Chapter 9. 
Encounter tables can be found in the Appendix.
Umbral Magic Items and Tricks. The best-known 
umbral magic items often focus on shapeshifting, 
radiance and illusion, shadow magic, and shadow 
warping. You will also find related fey magic, such 
as memory philters, illusion seeds, and road magic. 
Spells related to these are described in Chapter 
4. Magic items and the gear and equipment most 
commonly found in the umbral lands are found in 
Chapter 10.
A Brief History of Shadow
The Shadow Realm has existed for as long as the 
mortal world has. It is a place of shadows where 
twilight rules, and its various peoples hold close their 
nefarious plans and draw power from the dark while 
avoiding its corruption and the identity-draining 
waters of the afterlife. 
As a place of mortals mixed with minor planar 
powers, it has been congenial to the quicksilver fey, 
the nihilistic satarre, and ambitious humans willing 
to leave sunlit and wholesome lands for a more 
malleable, more dangerous, and more powerful realm. 
MAKING OF THE SHADOW PLANE
In the Shadow Realm, the world is what you make it. 
And the first great power to discover this was not one 
of the fey but Hecate, the goddess of the moon. 
Most natives of the plane and most visitors think of 
shadow as a land of reasonably well-fixed, or at least 
solid, plains and forests. And yet it was not always so, 
for Hecate found it as an ocean of light and darkness, 
a morass of radiance beams, trickling shadow mires, 
and undulating chaotic hills and waves. 
As is the way of a goddess of moon and magic, she 
first conjured a place for herself to stand by making a 
stone with radiant runes (and thus inventing the use 
of foundation stones). Then she brought the tides to 
still the waters, to make them flow and echo rather 
than crash and storm. The hymns praising Hecate in 
every one of her temples in the Shadow Realm refer to 
her as She Who Steadied the Tides, and she is indeed 
the maker and founder of inhabitation of the plane. 
To make room for her followers among the fey and 
humans, she conjured white birch groves, tall red 
pines on the hills, and moon stones. The waters she 
diverted into gentle ponds and deep lakes to reflect 
her glory. 
When it was to her liking, she shared the place 
with her most dutiful followers among the goblins, 
shadow fey, some exiles from the elf lands, and then 
the bearfolk and a few night-loving humans. Over 
time, more and more of the land became solid. All 
around its shores, even now, the shadow has no 
end, a roiling ocean of raw chaos and deepest night, 
leavened with moonlight. 
The Shadow Realm is still very much a place of 
arcane dreams and shapings, where forms and 
thoughts flow like water, where nothing lasts forever, 
where dark tides carry away towns and mountains—
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 9 ---
Book of Ebon Tides
where skill and kindness win over brute strength or 
cruelty. Except, of course, for those days and nights 
when everything changes and dissolves back into 
mystery, and new lights shine to please new shapers. 
EARLY VISITORS
The power of the Shadow Realm has always drawn 
the ambitious and the striving—sometimes just for a 
season, long enough to master a few useful secrets—
but others have come and stayed. Hecate is widely 
acknowledged as she who invited the first visitors, 
though some claim a more ancient race once made 
their home in the realm. She brought the shadow 
fey here, and then the sable elves came, and both of 
these fey groups brought servitor races. In the case of 
the shadow fey, these were shadow goblins, humans, 
and gnomes. In the case of the sable elves, they were 
courtfolk halflings, erina, and occasionally alseids, 
quicksteps, and various sprites and pixies. The land 
was soon overrun with fey courts and kingdoms in 
a distant time that both sides refer to as the First 
Flowering of Shadow. 
Shadow Fey and Servitors
The Scáthesidhe, or shadow fey, will always be quick 
to tell you that they were the first to arrive in the 
realm. They do not usually mention the reason why: 
they broke with the elves of the Summer Lands in 
pursuit of power and found it in the land Hecate 
showed them. Their understanding and mastery of 
the realm goes back to a time exceeding recorded 
history, though their numbers have never been great. 
Indeed, they brought with them the elven custom 
of employing servitor races as their eyes, ears, and 
hands in remaking and ruling the Shadow Realm. 
Where the elves retained halflings, humans, bearfolk, 
alseid, and gnomes, the shadow fey servitors were 
somewhat different. Gnomes—more precisely, those 
most distinguished of arcanists, the wyrd gnomes—
certainly retain influence among the shadow fey. 
Also goblins, which came with the shadow fey and 
became attuned to moonlight magic and fey trickery. 
And the humans who serve are relatively numerous, 
especially in the cities and the companies of the 
umbral human settlements. 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 10 ---
10
Book of Ebon Tides
Humans
Many humans have come to the Shadow Realm 
as servants or dupes of the shadow fey, and some 
have fallen into the realm by misadventure, straying 
from a shadow road. Most, however, descend from 
those who sought the place out to acquire power, 
study magic, or escape troubles of their own. This 
is the foundation of the cities and baronies ruled 
and inhabited by humans. Umbral humans, as they 
are called, are often considered ambitious, greedy, 
or slightly treacherous compared to more reliable 
servants like goblins and gnomes.
Darakhul and Other Undead
Not surprisingly, the darakhul, with their hatred of 
daylight in the mortal world, found the Shadow Realm 
almost pleasant, and they established a new empire. 
Their emperor here rules a greater and far more 
populated region of undead with ties to Evermaw and 
to the mortal Empire of Ghouls. Undead dragons, 
their unhatched wyrmlings, and lich-kings are part of 
the Twilight Empire, and the darakhul are among the 
greatest rivals to the shadow fey and their courts. Their 
realms in shadow also host a much higher number of 
shades than those found elsewhere.
Bearfolk
The bearfolk came to shadow not because they were 
drawn to its power, but because others were. The 
shadow chewers are said to have first pursued shadow 
fey into darkness and found their planar bolt-hole. 
They soon realized the war against the undead and 
the shadow fey would never succeed unless they 
could at least understand the Shadow Realm. In 
time, the first druids, rangers, and other bearfolk 
visitors to the Shadow Realm built settlements full of 
light, built warding stones, and grew entire circles of 
moonlit oaks, gathering the strength of their intimate 
understanding of darkness to prevent evil from ruling 
the shadows without rivals. The moon wells, the 
groves, and the mere presence of the bearfolk have all 
given the Shadow Realm places of refuge.
Minor Races
Trollkin, ravenfolk, alseid, erina, quicksteps, and 
others arrived in the Shadow Realm by many paths 
and in much smaller numbers than those races listed 
above. Shades are relatively well known, though few 
in numbers, and the verminous satarre are often 
found seeking to unravel the plane by various acts 
of sabotage. Ratatosks seem to enjoy the company 
of elves, bearfolk, and gnomes and are sometimes 
visitors in their cities and settlements. Hobgoblins 
arrived often as mercenaries or leaders among the 
shadow goblins.
Least commonly, occasionally one can find gnolls 
in the realm, generally servants of the gods of 
death, such as Anu-Akma, and subek, tosculi, orcs, 
Peoples of Midgard
The Shadow Realm has many useful connections to the 
Midgard campaign setting. The people of the Midgard 
Crossroads, Morgau, and Nuria have all found their way 
to the Shadow Realm, as did a surprising number of 
the people of the Magocracies after the mage wars, the 
bearfolk as a whole, and a splinter faction of the Ghoul 
Empire. Likewise, the trollkin share an ancient bond of 
blood with creatures who dwell in shadow, and the elves 
of Arbonesse walk secret paths that lead beyond the 
material world.
However, most of the people of Midgard know little 
or nothing of the Shadow Realm other than it’s a “place 
of elves and hostile fey” or similar. They have enough 
worries with the everyday dangers of Midgard to avoid 
seeking out additional magical realms.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 11 ---
11
Overview and History
dragonborn—even catfolk, often on some pilgrimage 
for Hecate or Ailuros. Aasimar and tieflings visit as 
planar travelers but are considered strangers, never 
natives of the plane.
CONNECTIONS TO THE MORTAL WORLD
The Shadow Realm is connected to the mortal 
world primarily by the shadow roads, well known 
to geomancers, elves, and the shadow fey as arcane 
connections and fey portals. While most travelers 
using such roads desire nothing more than to move 
swiftly through shadow to their destination, they 
sometimes grow lost or are tempted to leave the 
known path in pursuit of some vision, treasure, 
or refuge just off the road. Once they step off the 
shadow road, they are in the Shadow Realm itself, 
and the less skilled or less magically adept find it 
difficult to return to the path . . . and so they remain 
in the Shadow Realm.
Connections to other spheres are a bit less 
common. They fall into three rough categories: 
rituals and summoning, the roots of Yggdrasil, and 
cities fallen into shadow.
Rituals and Summoning. Rituals can summon 
creatures from the Shadow Realm—and powerful 
casters in the Shadow Realm can summon mortals 
there. For samples of this magic, see Chapter 4 
and the shadow portal scroll in Chapter 10. In a few 
cases, a caster deliberately warps a shadow walk spell 
or speaks a glamour to travelers on a shadow road 
to bring them deeper into shadow. Most creatures 
brought into shadow in this way arrive against their 
will, so getting back to the mortal world becomes their 
primary motivation.
Shadow Roots of Yggdrasil. The World Trees that 
climb up to the celestial realms and to distant spheres 
also sometimes have hollow sections of trunk that 
lead down to Yggdrasil’s roots, passing through the 
Shadow Realm on the way. While this superficially 
seems similar to taking a shadow road into the 
realm, there are importance differences in the two 
approaches. Entering the roots of Yggdrasil takes 
one out of the mortal realm and into a twisting set of 
interplanar passageways that wind up in various hells, 
planes of the undead, ghostly afterlives of brooding 
northern pantheons, and other dark realms at the root 
of the World Tree. 
If one is not wise in the ways of the planes, it is 
possible to enter planes entirely unrelated to the 
Shadow Realm, which tends to cling close to the 
mortal plane. Exactly how one steps aside into 
shadow is a crucial skill known to the trollkin, 
bearfolk, ravenfolk, and gnomes, among others, who 
often use the World Tree for this purpose. Other races, 
including humans, goblins, darakhul, and the shadow 
fey, avoid this method of moving between planes.
Cities in Shadow. Multiple cities have fallen into the 
Shadow Realm over the years, starting with Corremel 
in the days of the Gods War, and later the city of 
Oshragora and parts of the Twilight Empire. Cities 
linked to the human god-kings and the lich-kings of 
the undead princes seem especially prone to this, and 
The Stones of the Ancients / from the Book of Ebon Tides
Some ancient sagas and fragments of early script found on 
strange foundation stones mention the Ylgaar, a race of river 
giants who controlled the plane before the shadow fey but 
whose attempts to tame the tides ultimately failed. Some 
driftstone islands of theirs remain, which sometimes wash up 
on the Saltwood strand, or less often, a goblin explorer or 
fisherman will find their ruins at sea. 
From time to time, mad prophets and keen arcane divinations 
known only to the shadow fey reveal a whole city or region of empty roads, 
crumbled keeps, or echoing hills inhabited by a few gaunt giants who seem to 
know nothing of any earlier age of glory. The greatest of these lost lands was Olderain, said 
to be anchored around a grove of golden apples and a bright white tower-tomb of the last 
of the giants’ wizards. Many goblins will happily sell you a map to it and a boat to get there.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 12 ---
12
Book of Ebon Tides
most cities fall into shadow because a mortal caster 
draws so much power from the Shadow Realm that 
it ultimately consumes them and everything around 
them, literally pulling the place out of the mortal 
world through the sheer hold that shadow corruption 
has on the place. In the case of Corremel, the process 
has left a distinct set of links between the city of 
Corremel-in-Light (as those of the Shadow Realm 
refer to its rebuilt counterpart in the mortal world) 
and the city of Corremel-in-Shadow (ruled by shadow 
fey on a dark river and described in Chapter 6).
A Land of Ebon Tides
When learning about the Shadow Realm, the first 
element that must be addressed is not the people of 
the realm but the mutable land itself. Most people 
of the mortal world think of the ground, the forests, 
and the mountains as permanent, and we think of 
shadows and light as transitory. And they are, usually, 
except when some bright eternal fire wells up from 
the deep earth or some cavern remains shrouded in 
darkness for aeons. 
In the Shadow Realm though, shadows are eternal 
while land and rivers are—if not entirely transitory—
notably less certain than they are in the mortal lands. 
In the lands of the shadow fey and bearfolk, of sable 
elves and wyrd gnomes, the forests walk, and the 
mountains wander from time to time. It happens 
slowly enough that few notice it before their eyes, but 
over days and weeks, when the tides shift, the land 
itself shoves rivers and even cities some distance from 
their usual and well-accustomed sites.
These ripples in the land itself are called the ebon 
tides, the stretches and compressions in reality that 
shadow folk know and plan for. Any survey map is 
useful for a season or sometimes for a lifetime—at 
least if that lifetime is not overlong. Hills can crumble 
quickly, exposed to eroding moonlight and washed 
out to sea. Harbors silt up, and forests quiver and 
rearrange themselves around riverbeds that dance 
slowly, ever so slowly, like liquid clocks shifting first 
one way and then another.
The Shadow Realm drives cartographers a bit 
mad, and it guarantees their work is constant. The 
road wardens work hard to ensure that the shadow 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 13 ---
13
Overview and History
roads stay open, connecting the castles, towns, and 
settlements in a familiar way, even as details change 
year after year. Change is relentless among the 
shadows, but certain elements of this plane remain 
fixed, true, and certain.
These fixed elements, the landmarks, major cities, 
headlands, and elder rivers, hold true to one another, 
bound together first by the shadow roads and later by 
all three tools of oak, road, and stone. Some ancient 
roads shift just one grain of sand in a century, for 
the roads themselves have binding properties. Some 
towers keep a forest in their orbit. Some windswept 
plains retain their slow rise and chosen, distant hills. 
The rangers and wanderers, the wise women and the 
unerring elves, know their way from place to place. 
For others, for visitors, or for those foolish enough to 
anger a geomancer, the plane and its movements are a 
constant struggle.
DRIFTING TOWERS AND CITIES
While some things are clearly anchored, other cities 
are unmoored by roads or forests. The most famous 
of these unmoored locales is Oshragora, the city of 
psychic vampires and dark deeds, said to have once 
been a kingdom of wizards or a region so overrun 
with magic that it became a magical wasteland. In 
either case, it was pulled entirely into the Shadow 
Realm by its corruption and by improvident magic. 
The city has never had a road to elsewhere in the 
Shadow Realm (for the vampires who inhabit it seem 
unable to build one), and they have never placed 
foundation stones for their buildings or planted 
earthbound trees to hold it down. Thus, the city 
drifts slowly across the lands: sometimes near the 
forests of the shadow fey, other times near the town 
of Wormwood, and occasionally near the darakhul 
pits. Some claim this serves the vampires’ will, for it 
brings them always to new places where fresh victims 
might live. (See Chapter 7 for details on the City 
Fallen into Shadow.)
DRIFTING COURTS
Other famous drifting locales include the Court of 
Wine and Roses (built before the use of foundation 
stones was understood), and the Lost Court of the 
Triple Moon, said to have been built with a luminous 
tower that outshone the true moons and stars with 
a silver, arcane light. The Court of Wine and Roses 
seems entangled in the southern forests and is not 
difficult to find if one knows roughly where to seek. 
The Court of the Triple Moon has not been seen in 
centuries and was likely unmade by the Lord of the 
Hunt or one of the darker fey lords. Maps purporting 
to show a path to lost courts are a common grift by the 
more unscrupulous shadow goblins and shadow fey 
with visitors to the realm.
DRIFTWOOD VILLAGES
Sometimes a single black oak tree or a cherry orchard 
or a stand of birches drifts away from the rest of the 
realm, taking nearby homes with it and becoming 
a sort of wandering village. When this happens to 
famous cities like Oshragora, everyone notices, but 
smaller settlements sometimes fade into the plains or 
even part from the seashore and are not seen again for 
many years. For most of them, the village needs a new 
road to bind them to neighbors and re-establish trade; 
others seem to thrive without the burden of gifts to 
the fey or tolls to the darakhul. 
Several of these freeholds are well-known and 
seen every few years in the plains, as a river island, or 
elsewhere. The most famous include the fishing village 
of Willow Song, the woodworkers’ hamlet of Rowan’s 
Heart, the cheesemakers’ hilltop of Perreville, the 
druids’ retreat of Owlbridge, and the shepherds’ 
village of Cloverfield. They are never marked on maps, 
for they never connect to a road.
Oak, Road, and Stone
The peoples of the realm have harnessed three 
enchanted tools to keep lands stable and to build their 
realms to withstand shifts in the ebon tides. These are 
the trinity of oak, road, and stone—the three elements 
that can bind shadow landscapes into a fixed form.
The rich forests first raised by Hecate and later 
planted by the shadow fey and bearfolk (and more 
recently by the darakhul) hold land together, allowing 
for farming, building, and hunting in regions that 
surround the forested lands. Their roots and branches 
seem to always steady the land around them.
The roads are used to bind places to one another 
so that they do not drift apart and become separated 
lands with a sea between them. Building new roads of 
fine flagstone or marking roads with milestones and 
guideposts or simply cutting through the deep brush of 
a white birch forest all bind together the communities 
and peoples of the land. Road building and road 
warding are both quite honorable professions. 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 14 ---
14
Book of Ebon Tides
Further, glyph-marked foundation stones are also 
carved and enchanted with a particular radiance to 
make the basis of any permanent structure. These 
bind a structure, such as a wall, tower, or bridge, to a 
place, keeping huts, castles, and palaces from moving 
if the shadow landscape should be drawn in one 
direction or another. 
Natives of the Shadow Realm use this as an 
invocation and exclamation—“By oak, road, and 
stone!”—because they know the importance of 
maintaining them to keep their realm whole. 
Destroying any of them is considered an act of chaos 
at the very least as it unravels the habitable regions 
and makes navigation even more difficult than 
normal. Cutting roads, chopping down more timber 
than the druids permit, or defacing foundation stones 
are crimes among all the civilized races. Though they 
are also considered a form of sport or entertainment 
by the more chaotic and feral fey of the realm.
SHADOW ROADS 
The shadow roads were the first tool used by natives 
of the Shadow Realm to keep settlements from 
drifting apart. One might say that their creation 
made the settlement of the plane by the fey possible, 
for without them, the courts could never find one 
another easily or consistently, and each new court 
would have remained isolated. This also explains why 
the shadow fey, shadow goblins, bearfolk, humans, 
and even the darakhul expend considerable effort 
to patrol and maintain the shadow roads. They also 
go out each spring to “walk the roads,” repairing any 
fallen milestones, checking on bridges, restoring 
weak enchantments, and so forth.
However, tricksters and evildoers often work 
against the roads, hoping to either carve a road of 
their own or to deny an enemy the use of one. If a 
shadow road is cut by terrain-shifting magic or by 
the simple, muscle-powered expedient of digging a 
ditch or tearing up stones, the two locations that road 
connects on the plane become unmoored. While the 
ends of the cut road may bend and curl and reconnect 
by happenstance (or with arcane help), if the cut road 
is not addressed, it fades back into the mire and muck 
of unformed shadow or sinks into the earth, leaving 
no sign of its presence. And this means the places it 
once connected drift apart.
CREATING A NEW ROAD
To pave a new shadow road or even to mark it out with 
milestones and crossroads is a work of many hands. 
The roles are generally divided into three parts: the 
survey, the laying of stones, and the binding of points.
The Survey. To begin the work, a surveyor (often a 
wizard or cleric) takes silver chains, a theodolite, and 
a notebook to the foundation stone where the road 
is meant to begin. This is often a crossroads to a new 
path or an informal forest path, a trail in the tall grass, 
or a muddy stretch of river or hills that has been useful 
for a long enough period that the inhabitants will pay 
for a more permanent stretch of road to be mapped 
out. The survey involves putting down silver markers, 
The Making of the First Roads / from the Book of Ebon Tides
Like all those who seek to build a new road, I know that the 
construction of the first shadow roads is attributed to Hargen the 
Builder, a gnomish engineer and surveyor. This bearded arcanist 
learned to fix shadow matter with rune-marked milestones, 
carefully enchanted paving stones, and celestially inspired 
geometry. The task has since become rote: utilizing theodolite, 
lead weights, and measuring chains, I send a road builder to 
mark out a course, place milestones at key points (such as 
curves, hills, and bridges), and seed the whole with a well-seasoned 
course of moonstones and silver filings. To bind it, I command a priest to 
invoke the blessing of Hecate and the Road Gods, calling down the deep roots of 
the moon. In terms of the cost to the lords and ladies, each mile in simple terrain requires at 
least 100 gp and as much as a month’s work to build and almost as much to maintain—and five or 
even ten times that in marsh, hills, or deep forest. The expense eats at our treasury!
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 15 ---
15
Overview and History
measuring the current position of all curves, turns, 
and crossroads, and often leaving a long thread or, in 
the case of more ambitious roads, a bit of thin silver 
chain to mark the path the road is meant to take.
Laying of Stones. Once the course is plotted, time 
becomes critical. The road’s grasses, trees, and 
swampy patches must be addressed with traditional 
gravel fill, full flagstones over a roadbed, a rumbling 
way of wooden slats, making for a jarring route for 
wagons and carts, or simply the clearing of brush and 
the erection of markers, waypoint stones, and guide 
poles to show the way. This work is usually done by 
shadow goblin or hobgoblin gangs, when the road 
is a new one for the fey, or by young bearfolk, erina, 
and even molefolk if the road is meant to connect 
bearfolk lands.
Binding of Points. The last step is the arcane one 
that binds the foundation stones, the silver filings, 
and a crumble of prayers and chunks of opal or 
moonstone into the road, making it impervious to 
destruction by the slow warping of the ebon tides. 
The shadow road can still stretch, bend, warp, and 
turn to accommodate the drift of the two or more 
points that its binding ritual mentions. The ritual is 
most often performed by shadow fey clerics of Hecate 
together with shadow goblin mooncatchers and 
moon priests of various kinds, though in recent years 
this binding has also become an important facet of 
the rise of the bearfolk, whose druids understand its 
depths and difficulties, and even the darakhul, whose 
binding involves a bit more bone and blood and a bit 
less moon and silver. (See also the deep roots of the moon 
spell in Chapter 4.)
Life of a Shadow Road. Once the binding is 
complete, the road remains until destroyed or 
unbound. In some cases, these shadow roads are 
little more than forest trails, connecting a village 
or standing stones to a larger settlement. At other 
times, the road is entirely paved and remains so even 
when the relative positions of various settlements 
changes or when new hills, forests, or rivers cut 
through the land. The road itself is a living thing, and 
it can (and does) stretch to accommodate changes in 
the shadow terrain.
Note that various void cults and the satarre have 
often attempted to bind Oshragora into the larger 
realm by such a road, but so far, all such attempts have 
been thwarted by either the fey or the bearfolk. The 
prospects of binding it to the greater Shadow Realm 
seem ill-omened, at best.
ROAD WORSHIP
Some shadow roads are sites of worship, associated 
with ancient gods that predate the arrival of the fey. 
These roads are called “pilgrim roads” or “old paths,” 
and they include some of the oldest, best warded, and 
most revered roads of the realm, including the road 
from Fandeval to the Court of Night and Shadow, 
and the small stretch from the Hawthorne Grove to 
the city of Solvheim, which is built on the ruins of an 
ancient fey court. 
The shrines themselves often combine a small 
pantheon, with the Old Roads worshipped next to 
Hecate, Charun, and sometimes Bengta or Ailuros. 
They may be little more than a small stone- or tile-
roofed cabinet at the side of the road or a small cave 
that provides shelter. Some resemble a shepherd’s 
hut or an especially convenient boulder or cliffside. 
Offerings include worn-out boots and sandals, 
candles, and similar objects.
For more information on travel and use of shadow 
roads over long distances, see Chapter 5.
FOREST ANCHORS
Forest anchors are a way to secure a region filled with 
streams, villages, and other scattered landmarks 
from going drift. Most trees able to grow in the 
Shadow Realm also hold the land together, though 
not in the same way that roads do. Forests are less 
like a cord binding two places that float on the 
ebon tides and more like a matt of reeds or kelp, 
keeping a larger area calmer, disturbed only by great 
storms, and moving as a single unit. A great forest 
might be said to float on the ebon tides, but it drifts 
with all its trees, courts, castles, villages, streams, 
and everything else with them—an island. For 
this reason, even the darakhul plant their strange, 
crackling forests and similar structures. 
Spells such hallucinatory terrain and mirage arcane 
can be used to generate forest lands that will hold for 
longer than usual in the Shadow Realm (3 days rather 
than 24 hours for hallucinatory terrain and a month 
rather than 10 days for mirage arcane). Bearfolk druids 
and priests of Hecate can “lock in” the results of such 
spells to create new shadow lands with the deep roots of 
the moon spell (see Chapter 4).
FOUNDATION STONES
Fortunately, courts, castles, and villages can be 
built to withstand the ebon tides rather than being 
shifted or cracked by the earth’s slow movement. 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 16 ---
16
Book of Ebon Tides
This requires the use of radiant foundation stones—
enchanted stone pilings marked with the elements 
of a daylight or a darkness spell and used either as 
single stones under the floor (for a hut, tavern, or 
small barn, for instance) or in sets of two or four 
stones at the corners (for a large inn, manor house, 
or a great chapterhouse or keep) or even more (for 
many‑towered castles, large monasteries, great 
courtyard homes or cloisters, and arcane colleges).
Breaking a small foundation stone requires a 
shatter spell or 20 points of bludgeoning damage. 
Breaking a medium-size foundation stones requires 
a dimension door spell or 50 points of bludgeoning 
damage. Breaking a large one requires a disintegrate 
spell or 150 points of bludgeoning damage. In all 
cases, when a foundation stone crumbles, creatures 
within the structure feel a quivering, shaking motion 
for a moment, like a small earthquake.
Shadow Realm in Motion
How does a group of travelers know when the black 
tides are running and when the forces of shadow 
are warping the mountains, rivers, and roads? There 
are many common signs, all well known to natives 
of the Shadow Realm. They may indicate a small 
re-alignment of a nearby creek or the vast shift of an 
entire set of grasslands or the motion of a village or 
city that has come unmoored from road or forest. The 
following list is useful for identifying an ebon tide. 
Reading the Shift. A successful DC 14 Wisdom 
(Survival) check by a member of the party or their 
guide will confirm how far and in what direction 
the ground of the Shadow Realm is shifting. 
On a failure, the party becomes lost for at least a full 
day of travel. A new check may be made the following 
day as new landmarks come into view. This ability 
check is made with advantage if the party is traveling 
on a shadow road. 
Five High Holidays  
of Shadow
With several major and distinct cultures spread 
across the Shadow Realm, it’s rare that holidays are 
celebrated in all places in the same way. However, five 
main holidays are widely acknowledged by most in 
some way—or at least accorded some level of polite 
observance. These are described here.
Twin Moon Festival. All peoples of the Shadow 
Realm rely on the twin moons for light, seasons, and 
harvests, and the occasion of the twin full moon of 
both Celene and Lindar is always 
cause for a celebration of 
Where is the Shadow Realm?
While some sidebars in this volume refer to the 
mortal world as Midgard, the choice of which planes 
are close by is entirely up to the GM. It could 
be a published campaign world that you 
especially enjoy or a setting entirely of your 
own creation. The gloom and flicker of the 
Plane of Shadow does, after all, reach any place 
where light and darkness mingle. As GM, you can 
make room for shadow fey and shadow roads 
next to any existing campaign. 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 17 ---
17
Overview and History
life, hope, and radiant feasting. The shadow fey, 
goblins, and bearfolk strive to outdo each other in 
celebrations with bonfires and dances. Humans and 
darakhul are less keen but observe the day’s events: 
usually a torchlight procession through a settlement 
to the fields or to a shrine of Hecate, followed by a 
short blessing and then a celebratory feast featuring 
sweet cakes. 
Double Dark Blessing. When both moons are new 
and raw and darkness covers the plane, the dark 
gods and their cults celebrate as do many evil spirits, 
haunts, and shades. The festival is celebrated with 
cold wines in Soriglass and with fiery offerings in 
the temples of Charun, Alquam, and Anu-Akma. 
Elsewhere, it is celebrated in much darker fashions—
with blood and bone and with animal sacrifices.
Tidal Maps
The best-loved maps of the Shadow Realm are tidal 
maps, so called because they show the lands both at 
their widest-flung extent, called High Tide, as well as 
how the various landmarks are positioned during years 
or months of scrunched-together conditions where 
sites cluster nearer, called Low Tide. These maps are 
enchanted to show the current state of such things, but 
the fey consider them fairly mundane objects: useful 
surely but not the sort of magical item that confers 
much status. Visitors to the realm consider them a vital 
necessity to get around during times of high tidal flux.
TABLE 1–1: EBON TIDE MANIFESTATION
d10
Result
1 
Strange chatter in the wind and voices just out of hearing.
2
Currents under stone and the sound of water far from any river.
3
Echoes of the past: ghostly figures, forests, even cities appear and disappear.
4
Black wind, a bit like a very thick fog, reducing vision to 30 feet.
5
Rolling earth, like a mild earthquake or the presence of an earth elemental, and terrain spins or tilts.
6
Shadow trembling: all light and shadow seem to quiver as if someone is shaking the moon.
7
Sound echoes through the sky, feeling like half a crashing wave, half the banging of a massive gong.
8
Shadow thickening: all shadows in the region grow more dense and make terrain difficult for an hour.
9
A new radiant well opens nearby, casting a beam of light into the sky.
10
A blaze of light passes through the party like a wave, blinding everyone for 1 round.
creatures by the young. A goodly catch of active, 
healthy frogs, dragonflies, witchlights, and other 
creatures is an omen of a good harvest to come. Cakes 
and candies made in the shape of stars, frogs, and 
ducks are often part of the celebrations along with 
sugared eggs and sweets made with marsh roots.
Feast of All Souls. Celebrated primarily by humans, 
goblins, and bearfolk, the Feast of All Souls is a 
remembrance and memorial for the dead, when 
grave goods are offered at various graveyards and 
burial grounds and candles burn in vast numbers in 
memory of the departed. For some shadow fey, this 
is an occasion to show one’s status and wealth by 
burning candles embellished with gold leaf or silver 
pearls. The darakhul offer a very different version of 
this holiday, seeing it more as a celebration of rebirth, 
of shedding one’s mortal days for a second life.
River Soul Harvest. When the River Styx crests 
above its usual height, the priests of Charun often 
declare a River Soul Harvest Day, when moonlight nets 
and silver hooks are used to fish various items from 
the waters and some daring followers of the boatman 
ask for a sprinkling of river water, all to provide good 
fortune for months to come. Fish, oysters, clams, and 
seaweed are common feast foods and offerings. The 
celebration is especially well‑marked by the shadow 
goblins of Fandeval, though others partake as well, 
if only for a bit of witchlight or enchanted flotsam to 
brighten one’s home. 
Marsh Mustering (Witchlight Day). Popular among 
children near any marsh or body of water, the Marsh 
Mustering is said to have begun as a rite of the King 
of Toads, an old fey lord otherwise largely neglected. 
Held in spring when the marshes are active with water 
birds, the druids encourage the pursuit of marsh 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 18 ---
18
Book of Ebon Tides
Tides and Travel
If you learn how to walk the shadow roads, the 
Shadow Realm can be your playground. Anger 
the roads, and the wind will always be at your face, 
the forest always dark, the path always sorrowful. 
Dark magic infuses the realm, and that means that 
temptations corrupt the mortals who visit here (see 
Shadow Corruption in Chapter 5).
In the Shadow Realm, you must listen, listen hard, 
to hear the tides coming. When the ebon tides run, 
distances change, just as shadows bend and stretch 
as sources of light move. So travel from one point to 
another can be quite predictable for weeks, months, 
or even years and then change suddenly during a 
time of strong tides. In other cases, the ebb and 
flow of the shifting land is much less obvious. Travel 
times between familiar places might change by a few 
minutes or even an hour but not enough to change 
patterns of trade or familiar routes for road wardens 
or pilgrims.
Natives refer to “high tide” travel when conditions 
stretch the roads, and the distances are longer than 
usual. They refer to “low tide” travel when conditions 
make distances collapse and visitors arrive faster than 
expected. Neither is considered especially unusual.
When traveling along shadow roads, these effects 
are much less notable than when traveling overland. 
For wilderness travel in either mode, make a Wisdom 
(Survival) check on the Drift and Tides Travel table 
when the ebon tides are strong. (This table can and 
should be ignored for travel during times when the 
plane is quiet and shifts are minimal.) 
TABLE 1–2: DRIFT AND TIDES TRAVEL 
d20
Shadow Road Variation
Overland Variation
1
Travel time increased by 100%
Travel time increased by 200%
2–5
Travel time increased by 50%
Travel time increased by 100%
6–9
Travel time increased by 10%
Travel time increased by 50%
10–14
Travel time as usual
Travel time increased by 10%
15–18
Travel time reduced by 10% 
Travel time as usual
19
Travel time reduced by 20% 
Travel time reduced by 10% 
20
Travel time reduced by 30% 
Travel time reduced by 20% 
21+
Travel time reduced by 50% 
Travel time reduced by 30% 
Famous Shadow Roads and Portals of Midgard
Other roads are decidedly more obscure, such as the 
Trickster’s Road to Skaldhome (known primarily among 
the bardic College of Shadows and some of the elderly 
bearfolk), the Maze Road from the Echoing Shore to 
Capleon (known among minotaurs and some shadow 
goblins), the River Road in the Arbonesse (which continues 
on to brighter realms), and the road to the gnomish city of 
Hexen in Niemheim, best known as ending in a mirror in 
the Court of Midnight Teeth. 
Not all roads or portals lead to the mortal lands of 
Midgard, of course. Connections to the planes are also well 
represented, including to Silendora and the Summer Lands 
of the elves, to Yggdrasil through the Court of the Golden 
Oak and various bearfolk roads, and frighteningly direct 
connections to Evermaw, Niflheim, and the Luminous Hell 
of Fire and Sulfur via roads in the Twilight Empire.
The most famous shadow roads are the original Black 
Road to Zobeck, the Lantern Road between the two sides 
of Corremel, and the Cat’s Road near Fandeval. But many 
other such roads exist as well as portals to Siwal, Morgau, 
Triolo, and the Scarlet Citadel.
For those shadow roads known by more than a rarified 
few, the best-known ones are these four:
•	 Mage’s Road from the Court of Midnight Teeth to 
the mage city of Bemmea
•	 Ailuros Road from that goddess’s temple in 
Merrymead to Bourgund
•	 Flower Road from the Court of Pale Roses to 
Carnessa
•	 Moon Road from Fandeval to Kammae
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 19 ---
19
Overview and History
SKY AND WATERS
Just as the land of the ebon tides is different, so 
are its sky and waters. Moonlight and twilight are 
the nearest analogies. There’s never a full noon 
sun or even proper daylight, though muddy light 
is common enough. Likewise, a coal-black night is 
almost impossible: stars, comets, luminous streams 
and clouds, and even a diffuse glow from fog and 
land all renders some light. Colors wash out quickly, 
except in places lit by magic or firelight. Colorful 
items brought to the shadows from the mortal world 
sometimes fade permanently, remaining touched by 
the muted tones of shadow even when taken back to 
mortal lands.
Shadow Waters. Some of the Shadow Realm’s 
waterways—streams, lakes, and rivers—are a bit 
more disquieting and certainly more dangerous 
than the sky. These streams, lakes, and rivers contain 
rushing cascades, or ribbons, of pure shadow stuff, 
especially in the spring when shadow itself seems to 
flow down the hills with each gray rainfall. Two major 
waterways twist like lengths of black silk across the 
plane: the Rivers Styx and Lethe. Their tributaries 
and minor outlets reach nearly every corner of the 
realm, providing accessways if one can survive the 
perils of a waterborne journey. The shores of the 
Shadow Realm look out on the inky expanse of the 
Shade Sea, an endless, roiling stretch of wavering 
darkness to the south, and the chill waters of the 
Frost Gulf to the north.
A DC 13 Wisdom (Survival) check is enough for a 
native of the Shadow Realm to distinguish hazardous 
conditions in a body of water (this check is made 
with disadvantage for visitors to the plane). A success 
reveals the danger while a failure means that the 
water is thought to be normal, potentially leading 
to shadow corruption (see Shadow Corruption in 
Chapter 5) and similar ill effects.
MIRRORS AND ECHOES
If one could look down from a star’s-eye view, the 
Shadow Realm would resemble the mortal world 
as seen through a smoked-glass mirror. Prominent 
landmarks have echoes in the Shadow Realm, often 
playing host to similar or sometimes opposite 
essences. For instance, a population center in the 
mortal world might correspond to a city or town 
where natives of the umbral plane live and scheme. Or 
it could hold a blighted desolation of tumbled stones 
and salted fields where a settlement once stood. 
Warped Resemblances. Despite the overall 
similarities, a keen understanding of mortal world 
geography does not provide a key to navigating 
the Shadow Realm. The plane stretches and twists, 
distorted in dimension and shape when compared to 
places in the material world. Distances can deceive 
an unwary traveler, and directions become confused. 
Relationships between places in the Shadow Realm 
even change over time, the way a shadow lengthens 
and shrinks as the sun travels through the day. A 
mountain pass might lead to a vast forest one year 
and to a desert of black sand the next. While the 
distortion of the landed regions of the Shadow Realm 
can be vexing enough, the vast emptiness of the 
Shade Sea is completely unpredictable. Few crews 
brave or unfortunate enough to venture out on the 
open Shade Sea have ever returned, and those that did 
were never the same. 
Gods of the Old Roads
The ancient roads of the Shadow Realm are one of 
the secrets to understanding how the Shadow Realm’s 
inhabitants thrive, and they have a number of quirks 
and customs. In particular, the roads themselves have 
minor gods, road saints akin to the river spirits and fey 
lords and ladies that rule small domains, landscapes, 
or regions. Each has a name, and they are often found 
in pairs. (See Chapter 8 for more information on their 
names and powers.)
The road saints are called the “gods of the Old 
Roads,” and most of them seem to be very old indeed. 
While they have no priesthood other than the Doorlord, 
they are still revered in small ways by travelers seeking 
respite. The voices of the gods of the Old Roads can be 
heard at their shrines, small statues with stone rooves, 
found most often at crossroads where a shadow road 
splits into a shadow path and a side path, often called 
a shadow door or portal path. At these places, travelers 
can rest in relative safety by making a small offering at 
the shrine and remaining close to it. Some part of the 
consecration of the sites still holds strong.
A few of the gods of the Old Roads have old names 
given them in ages past and marked in runes on 
some of their shrines: Clauveg, Eiber, Hune, Mantellon, 
Raggel, Viacorra, Vanta. When their names are invoked, 
it is often in the context of a shadow portal spell (see 
Chapter 4).
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 20 ---
20
Book of Ebon Tides
Rare are those visitors that willingly travel to 
the Shadow Realm, and most have at least some 
understanding of the place before they cross that 
threshold. From mighty wizards who weave magic 
to bear them beyond the light to brash explorers 
who discover the secrets of a forgotten passage into 
darkness, these adventurers should know what 
awaits them. Some cultures nurture a relationship 
with the Shadow Realm, though these are often 
misunderstood or rightly feared. 
Etiquette and Status  
in the Shadow Realm
The Shadow Realm is home to many unique creatures 
and species, but it is arguably best known as the home 
of the shadow fey. The shadow fey resemble other 
humanoids, such as humans or elves, but their culture 
is quite alien to most who live in the mortal world, 
being full of changing and confounding rituals, 
edicts, and rules. While this is true, that some shadow 
fey preferences and mores change over time, certain 
facts do remain constant.
TABLE 1–3: SHADOW REALM STATUS ADJUSTMENTS
STATUS
 ACTION
−8
Threaten or attack a fey noble.
−3
Perpetrate arson or vandalism against a member of a court or their holdings.
−3
Get caught brawling or otherwise causing a violent scene in the court.
−2
Be fooled by a shadow fey illusion.
−2
Flee a member of the court who seeks your arrest or imprisonment.
−2
Disobey a direct order or deny a request from a member of the court.
−2
Be seen sneaking over the palace walls.
−1
Be the victim of a shadow fey prank.
−1
Kill more than one shadow goblin or other shadow fey servant.
−1
Lose a fey consort’s affections.
−1
Threaten a courtier to gain an audience with the court.
+1
Defeat a fey creature with a challenge rating equal to or greater than your level in single combat. This 
can be done a maximum of 5 times.
+1
Successfully use Charisma (Deception, Intimidation, or Persuasion) on a fey creature with a challenge 
rating equal to or greater than your level to gain information or a favor. This can be done no more than 
once per shadow fey and no more than 5 times total.
+1
Successfully learn a fact about a specific shadow fey or about the workings of the courts with an 
Intelligence or Charisma check. This can be done no more than 5 times total.
+1
Successfully play a prank on a fey creature with a challenge rating equal to or greater than your level. 
This can be done no more than once per shadow fey. Continually pranking the same shadow fey likely 
results in reprisal and the potential loss of status.
+1
Take a shadow fey consort.
+1
Receive a gift from a member of the court.
+1
Receive an invitation to dine or hunt with a member of the court. This benefit can be gained only once 
from any given member of the court.
+2
Join a shadow fey organization.
+2
Save a member of the court’s life or dignity.
+5
Be acclaimed by the Queen of Night and Magic as her champion. This benefit can be gained only once.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 21 ---
21
Overview and History
The Courts of the Fey are the Foundation of the 
Realm. Many lords and ladies of the shadow fey, sable 
elves, gnomes, and others claim to rule the Shadow 
Realm, but most such claims only apply to a fragment 
of the whole or to a particular time or season. (For 
instance, the Moonlit King is in power during the 
Winter Court’s rule, and Sarastra is in power during 
the Summer Court’s rule.) If an individual acts in a 
manner as prescribed by the fey rulers, its time in the 
courts and when dealing with members of the courts 
is often easier and safer.
Wheels Within Wheels. When dealing with the 
fey, the wiser heads realize that what they say is not 
necessarily what they mean. The fey are immortal 
creatures of whimsy and caprice. They enjoy watching 
mortals struggle to comprehend their true intent.
Status Matters. The courts are impenetrable 
labyrinths or empty shells to creatures who simply 
lack the status and importance required to interact 
with them. There are ways to increase or decrease 
one’s esteem in the eyes of the courts (see the 
Shadow Realm Status Adjustments table below 
and the Midgard Worldbook for more on the optional 
Status rule). 
The Fey Envy Mortals. While few of the capricious 
creatures would admit to it, the shadow fey and 
gnomes are jealous of mortals. They view mortal 
experiences as being both truer and more 
primal than the experiences of longer-lived, 
more sophisticated races.
Harming a Servant is Dishonorable. While 
the shadow fey may or may not like or trust 
their servants, they do rely upon the creatures 
to make their lives comfortable. Harming or 
killing a servant is therefore abhorrent to them.
The following are a dozen examples of shadow 
fey etiquette and mores that are mutable and might 
change depending on the week or month or on which 
court is in power at that time: 
•	 Do not eat root vegetables, for they are disgusting 
and offensive to the sensibilities of all civilized 
creatures.
•	 Do not harm any shadow fey outside of an 
honorable duel.
•	 Do not run, for it causes one to sweat like a 
common laborer.
•	 You must have your presence announced in song 
before entering a room.
•	 Civilized folk wear powdered wigs.
•	 Clothing made of sackcloth is all the rage, and 
anyone not wearing a sackcloth dress or breeches 
is to be considered a fool.
•	 True gentlefolk duel with insults, not steel.
•	 Hunting is only to be done on the sixth day of the 
week.
•	 Only pretentious twits play cards.
•	 All the ladies of the court must use illusions to 
appear human.
•	 Boasting of one’s own achievements is never 
acceptable on the second day of the week.
•	 One above a certain station must have exactly 
thirteen servants.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 22 ---
22
Book of Ebon Tides
The Shadow Realm is home to both strange creatures 
and ordinary folks, all of them shaped by the land 
in one way or another. Among them, five groups 
have risen as the primary powers, each struggling to 
control the ebon tides and maintain their holdings. 
These are the bearfolk, darakhul, shadow fey, shadow 
goblins, and umbral humans. Each group rules 
their corners of the realm, governing settlements, 
constructing roads, and generally existing in large 
enough numbers to maintain their towns and cities.
Other groups—quicksteps, erina, and wyrd 
gnomes—had a foothold in the realm from the 
beginning as servitors of the shadow fey, and while 
many still fill that role, they have also carved out more 
modest holdings of their own. The ratatosk of course 
have a small presence everywhere that the World Tree’s 
branches reach, and the Stygian shades are simply 
the Shadow Realm’s unique form of the shades that 
appear anywhere that mortals dwell. And of course, 
a few peoples have come new to the shadows, only 
recently attracted to its mystery and power for various 
reasons, including the ravenfolk and the satarre. 
Bearfolk
All bearfolk share an inherent iron resolve, but none 
more so than those who call the Shadow Realm 
their home. The bearfolk who hail from the Moonlit 
Glades are hardened by a life of constant peril—the 
ever-present battle against shadow corruption. 
Only by banding together in tight-knit communities 
dedicated to fulfilling their noble purpose have the 
bearfolk miraculously continued to thrive.
Since Mesikämmen the Bear King issued his fateful 
decree, the bearfolk have fought as a source of light in 
the Shadow Realm. While most of the region is deadly 
to even the most capable of travelers, the bearfolk have 
carved out pockets of safety guarded by druidic magic.
Hard-won wisdom has taught the bearfolk the 
secrets of resisting and purifying shadow corruption. 
As their mission to drive back the darkness has grown 
over the centuries, generations of bearfolk have been 
born in the Shadow Realm. And the longer they stay, 
the more of each new generation shows an innate 
power to shape the darkness that surrounds them. 
Umbral People and Heroes
Umbral People and Heroes
2
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 23 ---
23
Umbral People and Heroes
Peoples of Fantasy
Every fantasy world is filled with a wide variety of 
peoples and civilizations. Here you’ll find new races and 
cultures from bearfolk to darakhul to shadow goblins. 
You’ll also find new subraces of existing races, such as 
the wyrd gnomes and the sable elves.
Each race has statistics that provide a guideline for 
a typical member of that race. Not every individual 
exhibits these traits, be it in alignment, training, or 
disposition. If you want to create a character different 
from a typical member of their race, go for it! Players, 
be sure to work with your GM to determine which 
ability scores, alignment, and traits would best fit that 
character and the story you and your GM want 
to tell about the character.
Bearfolk Names
Bearfolk are given cub names by their parents, and 
when they come of age, they earn a new name, either 
bestowed upon them by an elder or one they choose 
themselves. This name befits a deed undertaken 
during their rite of passage into adulthood, describes 
some honorable or prominent trait of the bearfolk in 
question, or honors an ancestor.
Male Names: Beorst, Cauldvyr, Cirdhan, Dorngal, 
Erlundt, Gurralt, Hrosvir, Lhod, Nodhr, Yrn.
Female Names: Anga, Burli, Daegna, Durtta, 
Farla, Ingyrd, Johanna, Padhra, Sivaer, Tuli.
Deed Names: Fireheart, Ironhide, Lightblade, 
Moondancer, Razorclaws, Shadowbane, Stonebones, 
Valgerdsdottir, Yellowfang, Yrnsson.
Bearfolk Traits
Your bearfolk character has certain characteristics 
in common with all other bearfolk.
Ability Score Increase. Your Strength score 
increases by 2.
Age. Bearfolk come of age in their late teens 
and live around 80 years.
Alignment. Bearfolk are predominantly good, 
mistrusting and shunning evil. While they hold 
rich traditions, they value their freedom and tend 
toward chaotic alignments.
Size. Bearfolk can reach a height of over 7 feet, with 
thick, muscular builds. Your size is Medium.
Speed. Your base walking speed is 30 feet.
Bite. Your powerful jaws are natural weapons, 
which you can use to make unarmed strikes. If it 
hits, you deal 1d6 + your Strength modifier piercing 
damage.
Natural Armor. Your hide is thick and tough, 
granting you a natural AC of 13 + your 
Dexterity modifier.
Powerful Build. You count as one size 
larger when determining your carrying 
capacity and the weight you can push, 
drag, or lift.
Ursine Talent. You have proficiency in 
the Athletics and Perception skills.
Languages. You can speak, read, and write either 
Common (if you hail from the mortal lands) or 
Umbral (if native to the Shadow Realm).
Subrace. A subrace of bearfolk has arisen in the 
Shadow Realm: the shadowborn. 
Bearfolk in Midgard
The bearfolk have a rich history throughout the 
Northlands of the Midgard campaign setting. You can 
find additional bearfolk options in Midgard Heroes 
Handbook.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 24 ---
24
Book of Ebon Tides
SHADOWBORN BEARFOLK 
As a shadowborn bearfolk, you are one of the cubs 
born in the Shadow Realm with a proclivity for the 
darkness. Shadowborn are marked by gray coats from 
infancy and sometimes possess strangely arcane black 
markings. Shadowborn not only seem to resist the 
darkness more easily than other bearfolk but are also 
often drawn to its presence.
Ability Score Increase. Your Dexterity score 
increases by 1.
Cloak of Night. While in dim light or darkness, you 
have advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks and can 
take the Hide action as a bonus action.
Darkvision. You can see in dim light within 60 feet 
as though it were bright light and in darkness as if it 
were dim light. You can’t discern color in darkness, 
only shades of gray.
Darakhul
The darakhul are no strangers to darkness, and over 
the years, the members of the Twilight Empire deftly 
adapted to their new home and carved out a thriving 
civilization in the Shadow Realm. They have grown 
into a powerful force. 
Living flesh is scarce in the Shadow Realm, so while 
the darakhul still hunt the living denizens of the plane 
and maintain elaborate trade networks to secure 
living cargo from mortal lands, they have discovered 
that the crackling trees—an invasive species 
originating in Evermaw—can assuage much of their 
hunger, and they have learned to subsist on the blood-
like sap drawn from these trees. This practice marks 
them though, for the corruption inherent in the flora 
causes a permanent blackening of the teeth, recession 
of the gums, and shriveling of the flesh around the 
mouth. As a result, the darakhul of the Shadow 
Realm are much less concerned with concealing their 
true nature. After all, they are far from the worst 
things that stalk the darkness. 
In addition to the heritage subrace options 
presented in Tome of Heroes, a darakhul character 
from the Shadow Realm can choose one of the 
options below. 
Darakhul Names
Ghouls tend to keep their first names from their time 
among the living. Their surnames, however, tend to 
be granted or chosen by the newly arrived darakhul 
after the Crossing (their passage into undeath). These 
are sometimes the name of a patron, lord, or lady, or 
Playing a Darakhul Character 
Life as the ravenous undead comes with challenges for 
an adventurer. People revile the darakhul universally 
as scavengers at best and as loathsome, murdering 
abominations at worst. For such a being, participating as a 
member of an adventuring party is complicated. 
One of the touchstones that provides stability in your 
new form is your old life. While you have urges and 
thoughts that are dark and terrible, memories and feelings 
from your life before undeath might resurface to help you 
cope. Sometimes these flashes are corrupted versions of 
your old self, manifesting in your mind in new ways. Other 
times the recollections and feelings bubble up unfiltered, 
reminding you of a time when you were alive. Both are 
painful, but pain can be instructive. 
A major question you have to answer when you play 
a darakhul is, “How am I dealing with the change that 
transformed me into a darakhul?” Have you fully accepted 
your new situation, embracing your new powers and 
hungers as a boon? Do you fight against your urges daily, 
seeking to return to your old self? What were your goals 
before your transformation, and do you still pursue them? 
Are your new goals simply about survival, or are those 
aspirations a twisted reflection of the goals you had as a 
living creature? 
Regardless of your current monstrous state, who you 
once were has a powerful effect on who you are now. The 
carefree spirit of a halfling, the fiendish urges of a tiefling, 
or the creative spark of a gnome: all of these do not leave 
you simply because of your new form. How do those traits 
manifest themselves in you now? 
There is a great deal of narrative, dramatic, and 
roleplaying potential in that tension between the old self 
and the new. Darakhul may be undead, but they still must 
function in their own society—be it on the surface or in the 
empires beneath the surface. Most still have jobs to do and 
dreams to fulfill within their societies.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 25 ---
25
Umbral People and Heroes
a name used within the legions of 
the empire or within a particular 
faith. Some common lineage names 
are provided below. Some 
names are most common 
in the priesthoods while 
others are from the legions. 
Outside of those areas, surnames 
often celebrate particular affiliations 
in the trades or mark a tie to a founder 
of particular note. Because of this naming custom, 
different darakhul can end up with the same 
surname due to being chosen by the same 
patron, being part of the same temple, being 
the spawn of another darakhul, or some other similar 
circumstance.
Ghouls created outside the influence of the 
Twilight Empire might take on surnames related to 
their personal goals, keep their original surnames 
if attempting to regain some semblance of their 
previous life, or forgo a surname to avoid ties to the 
past, a church, or a patron.
Darakhul Surnames of the Priesthood: Al-Mot, 
Al-Qaan, Akma-aldan, Bloodtide, Vardeson.
Darakhul Surnames of the Legions: 
Bonecracker, Ivory, Maggot, Mortus, Reaver, 
Secondus.
Traditional Darakhul Surnames: Blackwater, 
Bloodborn, Calva, Canis, Carver, Corvan, 
Dawnbinder, Demonfinder, Edlest, Fuligin, Ghost, 
Gnollfeeder, Hunter, Jaeger, Miner, Orcandus, 
Osseor, Ravenfeeder, Shadowsmith, Strigator, 
Styxdrinker, Tanner, Umbro, Unsated, Verskull, 
Vespertan, Whispersen, Wormsong, Wraithcaller.
Darakhul Characters 
Both ordinary ghouls and darakhul arise from the 
infected corpses of other races. Most traits of the 
previous race are gone when the creature rises as a 
darakhul, though each darakhul carries some traits 
of their previous form (see the Heritage Darakhul 
Subraces). Still, most of a darakhul’s cosmetic 
features, such as supple skin or a long beard, fade over 
time into the gaunt, skull-like face, fanged maw, and 
taut gray skin of a ghoulish undead.
Darakhul Traits 
Your darakhul character has certain characteristics in 
common with all other darakhul. 
Ability Score Increase. Your Constitution score 
increases by 1. 
Age. An upper limit of darakhul age has never been 
discovered; most darakhul die violently. 
Alignment. Your alignment does not change when 
you become a darakhul, but most darakhul have a 
strong draw toward evil. 
Size. Your size is determined by your Heritage 
Subrace. 
Speed. Your base walking speed is determined by 
your Heritage Subrace. 
Darkvision. You can see in dim light within 60 feet 
as though it were bright light and in darkness as if it 
were dim light. You can’t discern color in darkness, 
only shades of gray. 
Hunger for Flesh. You must consume 1 pound of 
raw meat each day or suffer the effects of starvation. 
If you go 24 hours without such a meal, you gain 
one level of exhaustion. While you have any levels of 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 26 ---
26
Book of Ebon Tides
exhaustion from this trait, you can’t regain hit points 
or remove levels of exhaustion until you spend at 
least 1 hour consuming 10 pounds of raw meat. 
Imperfect Undeath. You transitioned into undeath, 
but your transition was imperfect. Though you are a 
humanoid, you are susceptible to effects that target 
undead. You can regain hit points from spells like cure 
wounds, but you can also be affected by game effects 
that specifically target undead, such as a cleric’s Turn 
Undead feature. Game effects that raise a creature 
from the dead work on you as normal, but they return 
you to life as a darakhul. A true resurrection or wish 
spell can restore you to life as a fully living member of 
your original race. 
Powerful Jaw. Your heavy jaw is powerful enough 
to crush bones to powder. Your bite is a natural melee 
weapon, which you can use to make unarmed strikes. 
When you hit with it, your bite deals piercing damage 
equal to 1d4 + your Strength modifier, instead of the 
bludgeoning damage normal for an unarmed strike. 
Sunlight Sensitivity. You have disadvantage on 
attack rolls and on Wisdom (Perception) checks that 
rely on sight when you, the target of your attack, 
or whatever you are trying to perceive is in direct 
sunlight. 
Undead Resilience. You are infused with the 
dark energy of undeath, which frees you from 
some frailties that plague most creatures. You have 
resistance to necrotic damage and poison damage, 
you are immune to disease, and you have advantage 
on saving throws against being charmed or poisoned. 
When you finish a short rest, you can reduce your 
exhaustion level by 1, provided you have ingested at 
least 1 pound of raw meat in the last 24 hours (see 
Hunger for Flesh feature). 
Undead Vitality. You don’t need to breathe, 
and you don’t sleep the way most creatures do. 
Instead, you enter a dormant state that resembles 
death, remaining semiconscious, for 6 hours a day. 
While dormant, you have disadvantage on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks. After resting in this way, you 
gain the same benefit that a human does from 8 
hours of sleep. 
Languages. You can speak, read, and write 
Darakhul, Umbral, and a language associated with 
your Heritage Subrace. 
Heritage Subrace. You were something else before 
you became a darakhul. This heritage determines 
some of your traits. Choose one Heritage Subrace 
below and apply the listed traits.
HERITAGE DARAKHUL SUBRACES 
Before the terrible scourge of darakhul fever 
transformed you into an undead creature, you 
belonged to another race. Although your undead 
self now rules you, some remnant of your past form 
clings to you, making you different from the darakhul 
created from other races. Sometimes you retain a 
trait, but more likely, you now have a trait that is a 
corruption of one you once possessed. For example, 
the elemental spark in a dragonborn is perverted 
into one of a more necrotic bent. The luck inherent 
in a halfling’s spirit twists into a power that brings ill 
fortune to their enemies. 
Bearfolk Heritage
Your darakhul character was a bearfolk before 
transforming into a darakhul. While your allegiance 
has changed, your mission to create order amid the 
darkness has not. The strength and tenacity of the 
darakhul are comfortingly familiar. 
Ability Score Increase. Your Strength score 
increases by 2.
Size. Bearfolk can reach a height of over 7 feet, 
possessing thick, muscular builds. Your size is 
Medium.
Speed. Your base walking speed is 30 feet.
Jaws of Death. Your powerful jaws serve you well 
as a darakhul. When you use your bite attack to make 
an unarmed strike, you deal piercing damage equal to 
1d6 + your Strength modifier. 
Undead Fortitude. Your tenacity in life has followed 
you into undeath. When you are reduced to 0 hit 
points but not killed outright, you can drop to 1 hit 
point instead. You can’t use this feature again until 
you finish a long rest. 
Language. You can speak, read, and write Common 
(if you hail from mortal lands) or Umbral (if native to 
the Shadow Realm).
Shadow Goblin Heritage
Your darakhul character was a shadow goblin before 
transforming into a darakhul.
Ability Score Increase. Your Dexterity score 
increases by 2.
Size. Your size is Small.
Speed. Your base walking speed is 30 feet.
Dark Deed. Your fascination with humor has not 
gone away, but you’ve had to adopt more macabre 
tactics. As an action, you can perform a combination 
of rude gestures and sounds to attempt to scare one 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 27 ---
27
Umbral People and Heroes
creature you can see within 30 feet. If the target can 
see and hear you, it must succeed on a Wisdom saving 
throw or become frightened of you until the end of its 
turn. The DC for this saving throw is equal to 10 plus 
your Charisma modifier. 
Language. You can speak, read, and write Goblin 
and Umbral.
Shadow Fey 
Shadow fey are the most abundant and established 
of the races who dwell in the Shadow Realm. They 
were long ago stolen away from the Bright Lands 
with promises of power. To outsiders, however, their 
origins are steeped in mystery. The shadow fey rule 
from their various courts fraught with intrigue and 
social maneuvering.
Shadow fey are immune to the shadow corruption 
that threatens those from the mortal world, but this 
protection comes at a cost. Above all else, shadow 
fey want to experience the tantalizing emotions and 
passions that do not come easily to them. Plenty of 
courtly resources go toward the cultivation and trade 
of these emotions made tangible by fey magic (see 
Chapter 10 for examples of such memory philters). 
Outside of the courts, shadow fey have built 
magnificent lantern-lit cities and fortresses that mark 
crossroads throughout the Shadow Realm. They have 
a deep knowledge of this dark land, and a long history 
with its powers, places, and secrets. 
A shadow fey character could easily be a minor 
noble from the courts of the shadow fey (see 
Chapter 6), from one of the handful of cities of the 
Shadow Realm, or from a remote outpost, where 
those deemed unfit for politics are trained to be 
scouts and hunters. 
Shadow fey resemble elves physically but with 
some striking differences. Their skin color tends 
toward alabaster white, ebon black, or subtle grays. 
Many have horns that range widely in size and shape. 
A Life at Court. The shadow fey are heavily 
concerned with courtly politics and often spend their 
lives positioning themselves to fall in the good graces 
of the lords and ladies who rule the realm. These 
fey are skilled manipulators and negotiators, raised 
from youth to be quick both with words and with the 
blade. Involvement in the eternal drama of the courts 
gives purpose to their long lives. Still, their constant 
desire for novelty can easily see them indulge in long 
periods of travel or other worthwhile pursuits.
SHADOW FEY NAMES
Naming conventions among the shadow fey are 
similar to those favored by elves, but their imagery is 
darker and more guarded. They favor themes of gloom 
and seclusion over sunshine and tinkling brooks.
Example Male Names: Drilfind, Edgwin, 
Ethdrin, Lorinidral, Quentor, Shanles, Thanascil, 
Torvobar, Varratir, Vashrin.
Example Female Names: Anorla, Bornva, Dulira, 
Fanwi, Girethdra, Lanrama, Methada, Phorla, 
Suzenga, Thortha.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 28 ---
28
Book of Ebon Tides
SHADOW FEY TRAITS
Shadow fey are a subrace of elf. They enjoy the base 
elven racial traits, along with the following subrace 
traits.
Ability Score Increase. Your Charisma score 
increases by 1.
Alignment. Although they have a malevolent 
reputation, the shadow fey are not inherently evil. 
They tend toward chaotic neutral, though every 
variation exists.
Shadow Fey Weapon Training. You have proficiency 
with the rapier, shortsword, shortbow, and longbow.
Path of Shadows. When in darkness, dim light, or a 
shadow large enough to cover your body, you can cast 
the misty step spell. You can use this ability a number 
of times per day equal to your Charisma modifier 
(minimum 1), and you regain all expended uses when 
you finish a long rest. Charisma is your spellcasting 
ability for this spell.
Sunlight Sensitivity. You have disadvantage on 
attack rolls and on Wisdom (Perception) checks that 
rely on sight when you, the target of your attack, 
or whatever you are trying to perceive is in bright 
sunlight.
Traveler in Darkness. You have advantage on any 
Intelligence (Arcana) check to learn about a particular 
shadow road and how it functions.
Language. You can speak, read, and write Elvish 
and Umbral.
LUNAR ELF
Lunar elves are an offshoot of shadow fey and are 
quite rare, and their births are typically regarded as 
an auspicious omen. If the origin of the shadow fey 
is mysterious, then that of the lunar elves is even 
more so, though many lunar elves have been recently 
drawn toward the Moonlit King, seeking out this 
exiled sovereign. Always born under the light of the 
full moons, these shadow fey seem saturated with its 
light. Lunar elves are not automatically ostracized 
from the shadow fey courts, but many prefer to take 
up duties that remove themselves from the watchful 
eyes of the shadow fey nobles: serving as an emissary 
to the Moonlit Glades, taking up residence in the 
Starry Court, or training to hunt the beasts of the 
region is often preferable to the suspicious gaze of the 
Queen of Night and Magic.
Lunar elves are identical in appearance to shadow 
fey except their skin glows in the dark, and they have 
luminous silver eyes. While lunar elves can learn to 
suppress this glowing effect, moments of strong 
emotion tend to reveal their true natures. The horns of 
lunar elves tend to be long, spiraled, and pearlescent.
Lunar Elf Names
Lunar elves who wish to remain in shadow fey 
high society adopt names typical of the shadow fey. 
However, the lunar elves who choose to embrace their 
differences instead name themselves after the stars, 
which are so rarely seen through the dreary shadow 
sky. They consider this adoption of celestial names to 
be a true symbol of independence.
Example Names: Aldebaar, Belline, Caropa, 
Celene, Lestra, Mintella, Quogel, Solaris, Tollub, 
Virgesh.
Lunar Elf Traits
Lunar elves are a subrace of elf. They enjoy the base 
elven racial traits along with the following subrace 
traits.
Ability Score Increase. Your Wisdom score increases 
by 1.
Alignment. Although they have a malevolent 
reputation, the shadow fey are not inherently evil. 
They tend toward chaotic neutral, though every 
variation exists.
Luminous. You emit bright light in a 15-foot radius 
and dim light for an additional 15 feet. You can choose 
to suppress this effect to only dim light in a 15-foot 
radius, to suppress it completely, or to activate it at 
any time without expending an action. (This effect 
has a level equal to your proficiency bonus, and if any 
of its area overlaps with an area of darkness created 
by a spell of the same level or lower, the spell that 
created the darkness is dispelled.)
Moon Child. When in darkness, dim light, or a 
shadow large enough to cover your body, you can cast 
the moonbeam spell. You can use this ability a number 
of times per day equal to your Wisdom modifier 
(minimum 1), and you regain all expended uses when 
you finish a long rest. Wisdom is your spellcasting 
ability for this spell.
Shadow Fey Weapon Training. You have proficiency 
with the rapier, shortsword, shortbow, and longbow.
Sunlight Sensitivity. You have disadvantage on 
attack rolls and on Wisdom (Perception) checks that 
rely on sight when you, the target of your attack, or 
whatever you are trying to perceive is in sunlight.
Language. You can speak, read, and write Elvish 
and Umbral.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 29 ---
29
Umbral People and Heroes
their lowest level. Once you cast one of these spells, 
you must finish a long rest before you can cast the 
spell again using this feature. Your spellcasting ability 
for these spells is Intelligence.
Language. You can speak, read, and write Elvish 
and Umbral.
Shadow Goblins 
Shadow goblins evolved to thrive in the Shadow 
Realm as servitors and allies of the shadow fey. In 
time, they founded their own city and have cut their 
own path. These goblins are closer to fey than they are 
to their monstrous cousins in the mortal lands, and 
they possess cunning dispositions that allow them 
to integrate into the shadow courts. They are often 
blue- or purple-skinned and with bright orange or 
SABLE ELF
When the elves first began to decline, some chose to 
stand their ground while others accepted a pact with 
the shadows. And then there were the sable elves 
who simply chose to run. Unfortunately, this splinter 
group of indecisive elves quickly made enemies, and 
they were scorned by the elves who had seized the 
opportunity to forge a shadow pact. So now, these 
sable elves are scattered about the realms in perpetual 
disgrace, not belonging anywhere. However, they 
have one redoubt of their own, the Court of Golden 
Oak (see Chapter 6). 
The few sable elves that remain possess the last 
vestiges of powerful elven magic that helped shape 
the early phases of the world, and they guard their 
secrets in isolation. Since there are so few of these 
elves remaining and only one community to speak of, 
the sable elf lineage is rapidly dying out. Their power 
allows these ancient elves to survive in almost any 
climate, and the dark forests of the Shadow Realm 
house a handful of these wanderers. 
Sable elves are dark-eyed, often either red-haired 
or raven-haired, and silver-skinned. They have tall, 
willowy frames, similar to other elves. Most carry an 
irrepressible aura of world-weariness. 
Sable Elf Names
Sable elves follow naming conventions of the ancient 
elves for their first birth name and their second 
adopted common name. However, they do not adopt 
the third name, or lineage name, that some elves do, 
as a reflection of their disgraced status.
Sable Elf Traits
You are an elf with a deeper affinity for elven magic 
that sets you apart from most other elves. 
Ability Score Increase. Your Intelligence score 
increases by 2, and your Dexterity decreases by 1. 
Alignment. Due to their exiled status, sable 
elves have lost attachment to many of the values 
traditionally held by elves. Centuries of solitude 
have pushed the remaining sable elves in different 
directions, and a variety of alignments are found 
within their ranks.
Blood Affinity. Choose a school of magic you have a 
natural affinity for. You learn a cantrip of your choice 
from that school. When you reach 3rd level, choose 
a 1st-level spell from the same school, and when you 
reach 5th level, choose a 3rd-level spell from the same 
school. You learn these spells and can cast them at 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 30 ---
30
Book of Ebon Tides
yellow eyes. And they have a knack for blending into 
shadows. Good rogues and even better assassins, 
shadow goblins have a dark reputation but also 
delight in low humor, drunkenness, roughhousing 
and wrestling, and other feats of skill (which they 
often lose). 
Shadow goblins are masters of deception and 
learn from infancy to take advantage of those who 
would underestimate them. These creatures share the 
natural resistance shadow fey have to the corrupting 
influence of the Shadow Realm, and they demonstrate 
a surprising affinity for shadow weaving and lunar 
magic. Naturally, their knack for magic is something 
most shadow goblins keep as an advantageous secret.
SHADOW GOBLIN NAMES
Individual names among the shadow goblins tend to 
be suggestive of either darkness or whimsy—or better 
yet, both—as those two facets play such important 
roles in their day-to-day lives. Many actually feel it 
a personal flaw to share a given name with anyone 
else, so they take great pains to name their children 
something entirely unique. Family names tend to 
focus much more on utility, another important 
facet to shadow goblins’ lives, and are much more 
descriptive.
Example Male Names: Bollair, Bruddaq, Desolay, 
Dessoto, Falko, Farsight, Fringo, Messerino, Picklo, 
Stinko, Thundero, Twisp.
Example Female Names: Daniy, Jojoni, Lunara, 
Morrameko, Nona, Olara, Omagda, Pippi, Sihaddra, 
Tippita, Vellissa.
Example Family Names: Bellringer, Butcherson, 
Candlesmith, Cloudchaser, Cooperson, Foxskinner, 
Glimmerfetch, Goldbiter, Ironbeater, Marshhound, 
Moonshine, Netmender, Potlicker, Potmaker, 
Seasalt, Shepherdsdottir, Skullsniffer, Tailshipper, 
Wargbender, Weaselwise, Weaverson.
SHADOW GOBLIN TRAITS
You are a shadow goblin, forever changed by the 
Shadow Realm, setting you apart from other goblins. 
Ability Score Increase. Your Dexterity score 
increases by 2, and your Charisma score increases by 1.
Age. Shadow goblins reach adulthood at age 8 and 
can live up to 70 years.
Alignment. Much like the shadow fey they coexist 
with, shadow goblins are not inherently evil, despite 
their reputations. Their natures are a constant balance 
between whimsy and being useful and productive. 
Shadow goblins are more likely to tend toward 
neutral good or neutral alignments.
Size. Goblins are between 3 and 4 feet tall and 
weigh between 40 and 80 pounds. Your size is Small.
Speed. Your base walking speed is 30 feet.
Darkvision. You can see in dim light within 60 feet 
as though it were bright light and in darkness as if it 
were dim light. You can’t discern color in darkness, 
only shades of gray.
Quick Wit. You have proficiency in the Deception 
and Insight skills.
Shadow Camouflage. You have advantage on 
Dexterity (Stealth) checks made to hide in dim light 
or darkness.
Stink Eye. As an action, you can perform a 
combination of rude gestures and sounds to distract 
one creature you can see within 30 feet. If the target 
can hear and see you, it must make a Charisma saving 
throw (DC 8 + your Charisma ability modifier + your 
proficiency bonus). On a failure, it has disadvantage 
on the next ability check, attack roll, or saving throw 
it makes before the start of your next turn.
Sunlight Sensitivity. You have disadvantage on 
attack rolls and on Wisdom (Perception) checks that 
rely on sight when you, the target of your attack, 
or whatever you are trying to perceive is in direct 
sunlight. 
Unseelie Blessing. You have advantage on saving 
throws against being charmed, and magic can’t put 
you to sleep.
Language. You can speak, read, and write Goblin 
and Umbral.
Umbral Humans
The Shadow Realm twists beings with its magic, 
and in the case of the umbral humans, this influence 
can have radical effects. These umbral folk are not 
merely humans corrupted by shadow but rather 
slowly transformed by their exposure to shadow over 
generations, gradually becoming inured to it. These 
are the changelings.
Beyond shadow’s natural and inevitable influence, 
the shadow fey have long experimented with the 
shadows and its effects on mortals, whether to punish 
the foolish or to create better servants—or just for 
fun—and some umbral humans, those that survive, 
are the result of these rituals. These twisted souls are 
often labeled as the gifted by others, but they rarely if 
ever think of themselves in such terms. 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 31 ---
31
Umbral People and Heroes
Umbral Human Traits
Your umbral human character has certain 
characteristics in common with all other umbral 
humans.
Ability Score Increase. You may choose one score to 
increase by 2 and a different score to increase by 1.
Age. Your natural aging process slows and becomes 
similar to that of an elf or shadow fey.
Alignment. Umbral humans have often walked a 
troubling path to become what they are. This tends 
to push umbral humans toward neutral or chaotic 
alignments, but all variations exist. 
Size. Your size is Medium.
Speed. Your walking speed is 30 feet.
Darkvision. You can see in dim light within 60 feet 
as though it were bright light and in darkness as if it 
were dim light. You can’t discern color in darkness, 
only shades of gray.
Dark Infusion. You have resistance to cold damage.
Fade Away. While standing perfectly still, you can 
use an action to become invisible. You become visible 
again if you move or take an action. You can use 
this feature a number of times per day equal to your 
proficiency bonus.
Language. You can speak, read, and write Common 
and Umbral. 
Subtypes. The generational infusion of shadow 
manifests itself in different ways, but two especially 
noteworthy categories of umbral humans exist: 
changelings and the gifted. Choose one of the two 
subraces presented below.
CHANGELINGS
Changelings are the natural result of humans 
adapting to a life in the shadows over multiple 
generations. Originally, humans were stolen from the 
mortal lands to serve their shadow fey masters—or 
just on a whim—and many more humans simply got 
lost on a shadow road or abandoned and ultimately 
became stranded in the Shadow Realm. And that new 
life in shadows must ultimately change a mortal.
Changelings resemble their cousins from the 
mortal lands but with the hallmarks of a life in the 
shadows, similar to how shadow fey differ from other 
elves. Their skin color tends toward alabaster white, 
ebon black, or subtle grays. Some have even grown 
rudimentary horns, like shadow fey. Their appearance 
may change further in generations to come—perhaps 
constantly evolving and even drastically diverging in 
some ways.
Changeling Names
Changelings typically take on the naming customs of 
the dominant peoples in the communities they grow 
up in. Where umbral humans are concentrated, the 
newcomers will often retain naming customs from 
the mortal lands from whence they originated—if 
their memories remain—while long-settled umbral 
human families use an amalgam of naming customs. 
For those communities of long standing within 
shadow, the naming follows a blend of styles in a 
linguistic melting pot.
Male Umbral Human Names: Abradal, Dalid, 
Haggar, Hosano, Juns, Korim, Masoosh, Obrax, 
Ulaf, Woldemar.
Female Umbral Human Names: Analinda, Breck, 
Cloria, Helgamet, Linnet, Maswen, Nuriam, Ranna, 
Siffar, Soffy, Ulsa.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 32 ---
32
Book of Ebon Tides
Changeling Umbral Human Traits
You are a changeling, a human adapted to the 
shadows, thriving in its embrace.
Ability Score Increase. Your Charisma score 
increases by 1.
Cover Story. You gain proficiency in the Deception 
or Persuasion skill.
Shadow Glamour. You can use an action to cast the 
disguise self spell at will.
THE GIFTED
Dealing with the fey is dangerous, and the gifted are 
living proof. These broken souls are those umbral 
humans that have drunk a bit too deeply, too quickly, 
of the shadows. This transformation is often initiated 
by the shadow fey, though not always, for there are 
many dark powers in the shadows. It could be an 
unwilling change, forced upon an unfortunate soul, 
or it could be in payment for some fey pact, whether 
as boon or bane. 
The gifted can vary widely in their physical 
appearance, depending on the nature of the change. 
Sometimes they appear as “normal” umbral humans 
and sometimes they’ll appear as shadow fey. Still 
other times, the change can cause minor cosmetic 
changes or even more dramatic and severe changes: 
tails, hooves, vestigial wings, and the like are not 
unknown—not to mention the mental and emotional 
alterations that can accompany them. No matter how 
small the physical change though, a gifted always 
bears some sign visible to at least themselves. 
Occasionally, the change robs the individual of their 
memories. 
Gifted Names
Gifted umbral humans typically follow the same 
naming customs as changelings. However, many take 
the opportunity to completely reinvent themselves, if 
their change comes later in life, in name and even in 
personality traits.
Gifted Umbral Folk Traits
You are of the gifted, granted potent fey abilities.
Ability Score Increase. Your Wisdom score increases 
by 1.
Cursed Infusion. You have resistance to necrotic 
damage.
Shadow Gift. You struck a bargain with a shadow 
fey to receive a gift, but it came at a terrible price. 
Choose one of the options below to determine the 
benefit and penalty you possess (or discuss other 
options with your GM):
•	 You become proficient in one skill of your choice 
and always roll ability checks made with that 
skill at advantage. Choose a second skill, and 
always roll ability checks made with that skill at 
disadvantage.
•	 You no longer need to eat or breathe to survive and 
require only 4 hours for a long rest. Gain one level 
of exhaustion. This level of exhaustion cannot be 
removed by any means magical or non-magical.
•	 Cut your current base movement speed in half. 
Gain a fly, swim, or climb speed equal to your 
newly halved base movement speed.
•	 Increase one of your ability scores by 6 (up to 20). 
Reduce two different ability scores by 2.
•	 Each day at dawn, you gain temporary hit points 
equal to your Constitution score. You are no longer 
able to spend hit dice to heal during short rests.
Other Peoples of the 
Shadow Realm
The Shadow Realm attracts a motley spectrum of 
the strange, the dispossessed, the curious, and the 
lost, and some of those races have created small 
communities. While not great in overall number, 
these groups are often influential in a particular court, 
city, or region. They can be brought into the spotlight 
or ignored by the GM in any particular Shadow 
Realm adventure or campaign.
QUICKSTEP
Quicksteps were among the servitors the shadow 
fey brought with them when they first came to the 
Shadow Realm. Like the shadow fey, quicksteps are 
innately resilient to the corruption that infuses the 
area, and they embrace life in the courts with aplomb. 
Most quicksteps have a fondness for finery and feel 
right at home amid the riches of court life. As their 
name implies, quicksteps possess a natural affinity for 
speed, which makes them exquisitely qualified for two 
favored shadow fey pastimes: sabotage and dueling. 
Quicksteps are rarely found outside the fey courts 
but have thriving communities within many of the 
courts, most notably in the Court of Midnight Teeth 
and the Court of Winter’s Love. Yet quicksteps are not 
immune to the wanderlust most fey experience. These 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 33 ---
33
Umbral People and Heroes
small fey make for skilled and efficient adventurers 
and are typically welcome in any company hoping to 
traverse the dangerous Shadow Realm. 
Quickstep Names
Quicksteps like to adopt names that are flashy, 
memorable, and sound intriguing when announced 
before a duel. Typically, these are evocative descriptive 
words or nature themes. 
Example Names: Birch, Bolt, Crimson, Dandy, 
Double Time, Echo, Glory, Hotspur, Indigo, 
Starburst, Zephyr.
Quickstep Traits
Your quickstep heritage is apparent 
in a variety of traits you share with 
other quicksteps. 
Ability Score Increase. Your Dexterity 
score increases by 2, and your Charisma score 
increases by 1. 
Age. Quicksteps have remarkably short lifespans 
compared to other fey. Quicksteps mature around 10 
years and live up to 50 years.
Alignment. Due to their association with the 
shadow fey and their legendary love of competitions, 
quicksteps have dark reputations, but they are 
rarely of evil alignment. Many quicksteps have a 
mischievous, even impetuous, streak that pushes 
them toward chaotic or neutral alignments.
Size. Your size is Small.
Speed. Your base walking speed is 50 feet. 
Darkvision. You can see in dim light within 60 feet 
as though it were bright light and in darkness as if it 
were dim light. You can’t discern color in darkness, 
only shades of gray.
Fey Ancestry. You have advantage on saving throws 
against being charmed, and magic can’t put you to 
sleep. 
Nimble. You have proficiency in the Acrobatics and 
Sleight of Hand skills. 
Startling Speed. Your movements are so swift that 
you are almost invisible when in motion. If you move 
at least 10 feet on your turn, attack rolls against you 
have disadvantage until the start of your next turn. 
This feature does not function if you are incapacitated 
or restrained. You can use this ability a number of 
rounds per day equal to your level.
Languages. You can speak, read, and write Elvish 
and Umbral. 
RATATOSK
In recent decades, the squirrel-like beings called 
ratatosk have grown bored with simply safeguarding 
the World Tree and have decided to more actively 
battle corruption in the Shadow Realm. Being 
exuberant sentinels against all things evil—and 
having large personalities—ratatosks are often at 
odds with many of the Shadow Realm natives. 
Ratatosks are insatiable tricksters. Sharing gossip 
from across the planes, they delight in learning 
secrets and spreading those tidbits of information in 
mischievous ways. Resembling squirrels with sleek 
fur and small tusks, they form close matriarchal 
familial units called drays within larger communities 
called scurries. More adventurous ratatosks often 
act as planar guides and guardians, though it is 
not uncommon to find squirrel-folk offering their 
services as couriers, thieves, or even spies.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 34 ---
34
Book of Ebon Tides
Ratatosk Names
The ratatosk make no differentiation between male 
and female names. These names often tend to be 
short, but highly respected families occasionally 
add infixes like -ee- or -ekke- to create longer names. 
Ratatosks who dwell in other planes will sometimes 
take regional names.
Example Forenames: Chiringa, Daresh, Ekirp, 
Ekkitta, Kerasil, Najuta, Orrin, Skirekkeret, Tiptup, 
Turorri.
Example Surnames: Brightsong, Bristletooth, 
Flitpaw, Jumptwig, Silentleaf, Wisewhisker.
Ratatosk Racial Traits
Your ratatosk heritage is apparent in a variety of traits 
you share with other ratatosks. 
Ability Score Increase. Your Dexterity score 
increases by 2, but your Strength score decreases by 2.
Age. Ratatosk reach adulthood at age 10 and, due to 
their celestial nature, live up to 180 years.
Alignment. Ever curious and delighting in 
unpredictability, ekorre ratatosks gravitate toward 
chaotic alignments as they view laws as vague 
suggestions at best. The tradvakt tend to be slightly 
more focused and lawful in their thinking. Both 
groups tend toward good, placing value on doing 
the right thing, though some individuals lean more 
toward their darker impulses. 
Speed. Your base walking speed is 25 feet, and you 
have a climb speed of 10 feet.
Darkvision. You can see in dim light within 60 
feet of you as if it were bright light and in darkness 
as if it were dim light. You can’t discern color in 
darkness, only shades of gray.
Grounded Celestial. You are descended from 
celestials, but you are strongly attuned to the 
mortal world. Though you are a humanoid, 
you are still susceptible to effects that target 
celestials. 
Sharp Tusks. Your sharp tusks are natural 
weapons, which you can use to make unarmed 
strikes. If you hit with them, you deal 1 piercing 
damage plus 1d4 psychic damage.
Telepathic. You can speak telepathically to 
any creature you can see, provided the creature 
is within a number of feet of you equal to 10 times 
your level. You don’t need to share a language with 
the creature for it to understand your telepathic 
utterances, but the creature must be able to 
understand at least one language.
Languages. You can understand, read, and write 
Celestial and Common, but you speak via Telepathy. 
Subraces. There are two main ratatosk subraces. 
The wily ekorre and the brave tradvakt. Choose one 
subrace below and apply the listed traits.
Ekorre (Clever Tusk)
The ekorre are the image most have in mind when 
discussing ratatosks. Superficially similar to squirrels, 
they have sleek fur, often in shades of red and brown, 
and tiny tusks. These celestials dwell upon Yggdrasil 
and all its branches. Clever, egotistical, and endlessly 
curious, the ekorre carry messages across the planes, 
sharing information from individual to individual in a 
never-ending gossip network.
Ability Score Increase. Either your Intelligence or 
Charisma score increases by 1.
Size. Ekorre ratatosks are around 1-1/2 feet tall and 
weigh between 20 and 50 pounds. Your size is Tiny.
Blessing of Yggdrasil. You are attuned to the World 
Tree and can tap into its power. You know the message 
and vicious mockery cantrips. When you reach 5th level, 
you can cast the mirror image spell with this trait. Once 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 35 ---
35
Umbral People and Heroes
you cast a non-cantrip spell with this trait, you can’t 
do so again until you finish a long rest. Charisma is 
your spellcasting ability for these spells.
Diminutive Weapons. You can wield weapons with 
the light or finesse properties normally. You have 
disadvantage on attack rolls with other weapons, 
unable to use them effectively due to your Tiny size, 
and they are treated as two-handed weapons. You 
can’t use heavy weapons at all. A weapon specifically 
designed for ratatosks (or for other Tiny creatures at 
the GM’s discretion) are treated normally.
Tradvakt (Tree Protector)
The tradvakt, also called ratatosk warlords, believe 
themselves to be the guardians and protectors of 
Yggdrasil and the branches of the World Tree. Larger 
than their ekorre cousins, the tradvakt train from a 
young age to master weapons and battle tactics. They 
act to maintain order in their communities and stamp 
out dangers that threaten those settlements. 
Tradvakt who become adventurers do so for a wide 
variety of reasons. Some seek a more proactive way 
to combat evil before it can threaten the World Tree. 
Others simply wish to prove their martial skills. No 
matter the reason, tradvakt will rise to any challenge 
and be victorious. 
Ability Score Increase. Your Constitution score 
increases by 1.
Size. A typical tradvakt stands between 2 and 3 feet 
tall, weighing from 60 to 100 pounds. Some massive 
ratatosk warlords reach a towering 3-1/2 feet. Your 
size is Small.
War Chatter. Your constant chittering distracts 
your opponents. As a bonus action, a non-ratatosk 
creature within 30 feet that can hear you must 
succeed on a Charisma saving throw or have 
disadvantage on its attack rolls until the start of 
your next turn. The DC of the save equals 8 + your 
proficiency bonus + your Constitution bonus. Once 
you use this trait, you can’t use it again until you 
finish a short or long rest.
SPIRITFARER ERINA
The erina are a race of bipedal folk that resemble 
hedgehogs. Originally hailing from the Bright Lands, 
the shadow fey brought erinas along as servitors 
when they first came to the Shadow Realm, where 
they quickly adapted to the shadows and have 
learned to thrive in the dark forests and underground 
warrens. Their natural propensity for exploration and 
their unrivaled burrowing skills mean that they’ve 
tunneled their way to many a strange new locale—
including the mortal realms. They’ve primarily settled 
around the plateau that hosts the Queen’s Wood 
and the Silver Hills, but regular bands of explorers, 
naturalists, and wilderness guides have established 
underground camps throughout the realm.
The shadow fey are not entirely pleased by the 
erinas’ wanderlust (making them less than entirely 
useful servants) nor with their open policy of assisting 
travelers in and out of the Shadow Realm through 
their underground shadow roads. However, at least 
for now, it is easier for the shadow fey to ignore these 
aspects of the crafty survivalists. 
Spiritfarer erinas are a subrace of erina. You can find 
out more about the base erina race in Tome of Heroes. 
Erina Names
Erina names translate poorly into other languages. 
When outside erina lands, the hedgehog‑folk tend 
to adopt names with long, open vowel sounds. These 
sounds are rare in their own language and bring 
pleasure to their ears. Erina like to extend the vowel 
sounds in their names when introducing themselves. 
Example Names: May-nay, Wayee, Leemay, 
Einore, Die-Nu, Lowno, Ur-win. 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 36 ---
36
Book of Ebon Tides
Erina Traits
You are a spiritfarer erina, whose ancestors were 
forever changed by the Shadow Realm, setting you 
apart from most other erina. 
You exhibit a few different traits from typical erinas. 
The following traits include those shared with the base 
erina’s traits (see Tome of Heroes), though replacing 
the Ability Score Increase, Hardy, Spines, and Keen 
Senses traits with those listed.
Ability Score Increase. Your Wisdom score increases 
by 2, and you can choose to increase either your 
Dexterity or Charisma score by 1. (This trait replaces 
the base erina’s Ability Score Increase trait.)
Age. Erina reach maturity around 15 years and can 
live up to 60 years, though some erina burrow elders 
have memories of events that suggest erina can live 
much longer.
Alignment. Spiritfarer erina are good-hearted and 
extremely social creatures with an oversized sense of 
wonder. They have a difficult time adapting to the laws 
of other peoples, but they cherish the bonds of their 
communities. They tend more toward neutral and 
lawful alignments.
Size. Erina average about 3 feet tall and weigh about 
50 pounds. Your size is Small.
Speed. Your base walking speed is 25 feet.
Darkvision. You can see in dim light within 60 feet 
as though it were bright light and in darkness as if it 
were dim light. You can’t discern color in darkness, 
only shades of gray.
Digger. You have a burrow speed of 20 feet, but you 
can use it to only move through earth and sand, not 
mud, ice, or rock. 
Quills. Your spines are longer and more potent than 
other erinas. Whenever you make a successful melee 
attack against a target within 5 feet of you, that target 
takes an additional 3 (1d6) piercing damage. (This trait 
replaces the base erina’s Spines trait.)
Sharp Instincts. You can’t be surprised, except when 
incapacitated by something other than nonmagical 
sleep. (This replaces the base erina’s Keen Senses trait.)
Spirit Tongue. You have an innate knack for 
speaking to the spirit world. You know the message 
cantrip. When you reach 3rd level, you can cast the 
charm person spell with this trait (targeting only 
undead creatures), and starting at 5th level, you 
can cast the enthrall spell with it. Once you cast a 
non‑cantrip spell with this trait, you can’t do so 
again until you finish a long rest. Wisdom is your 
spellcasting ability for these spells.
Languages. You can speak Erina and Umbral and 
either Common, Elvish, or Sylvan.
STYGIAN SHADE
The River Styx winds through the Shadow Realm, 
full of mindless shades that live only to consume the 
memories of those they can drown. An unfortunate 
few of these shades bound to the plane retain their 
mental faculties yet suffer daily to recall who they 
once were. Shades from the Shadow Realm are 
different from those of the mortal realms because 
they specifically lack most of their memories, and 
the drive to find what was lost propels them. Newly 
born shades are difficult to distinguish from ghosts, 
but most settlements in the Shadow Realm are 
familiar enough with the phenomenon to recognize 
a new shade when they stumble into town with no 
recollection of where they came from. 
The city of Soriglass has become a haven for 
various undead, and shades congregate there in large 
numbers. It is often called the City of Shades. And 
a small community of shades have set up camp near 
the River Styx in hopes of preemptively finding and 
guiding the unfortunate individuals who wander out 
of its waters. This growing community is dedicated 
to helping shades of the Shadow Realm and to 
gathering resources to help its members discover 
who they once were. 
Stygian shades are a subrace of shades. You can find 
more about the base shade race in Tome of Heroes. 
Stygian Shade Names
Shades of the Shadow Realm awaken with little to 
no memory of who they were in life and rarely know 
their own names. Rediscovering one’s name is a huge 
piece of reclaiming identity, so shades that do learn 
their own names use them with pride. For shades who 
don’t yet remember, they often choose and discard 
different names for themselves as they attempt to find 
something that feels familiar. 
Stygian Shade Traits
You are a Stygian shade, your identity stripped by the 
waters of the Shadow Realm, which sets you apart 
from most other shades. 
You exhibit a few different traits from the shades of 
the mortal lands. The following traits include those 
shared with the base shade’s traits (see Tome of Heroes), 
though replacing the Ability Score Increase, Size, Life 
Drain, and Living Origin traits with those listed.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 37 ---
37
Umbral People and Heroes
Ability Score Increase. Your Constitution score 
increases by 2, and one other ability score of your 
choice increases by 1. (This trait replaces the base 
shade’s Ability Score Increase trait.)
Age. Shades appear as the age they were when they 
died. They potentially have no limit to their lifespan, 
but realistically, ancient shades grow weary and lose 
their will to hold onto reality, fading away near 750 
years old or so. 
Alignment. Stygian shades come from all walks 
of life but tend toward neutrality. Those that can’t 
recover their memories or grow to resent their 
condition often drift toward evil alignments. 
Size. Choose whether you are Small or Medium 
sized. (This trait replaces the base shade’s Size trait.)
Speed. Your speed is 30 feet. 
Darkvision. You can see in dim light within 60 feet 
as though it were bright light and in darkness as if it 
were dim light. You can’t discern color in darkness, 
only shades of gray.
Death Mask. As an action, you can strip away your 
veneer of life and expose your true spectral face. All 
non-undead creatures within 30 feet that can see you 
must succeed on a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw or be 
frightened for 1 minute. A frightened target can repeat 
the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending 
the frightened condition on itself on a success. If a 
target’s saving throw is successful or the effect ends 
for it, the target is immune to your Death Mask for 
the next 24 hours. You can use this ability a number 
of times per day equal to your Constitution modifier. 
(This trait replaces the base shade’s Life Drain trait.)
Ghostly Flesh. Starting at 3rd level, you can use 
your action to dissolve your physical body into the 
ephemeral stuff of spirits. You become translucent 
and devoid of color, and the air around you grows 
cold. Your transformation lasts for 1 minute or until 
you end it as a bonus action. During it, you have a 
flying speed of 30 feet with the ability to hover, and 
you have resistance to bludgeoning, piercing, and 
slashing damage from nonmagical attacks that aren’t 
made with silvered weapons. In addition, you have 
advantage on ability checks and saving throws made to 
escape a grapple or against being restrained, and you 
can move through creatures and solid objects as if they 
were difficult terrain. If you end your turn inside an 
object, you take 1d10 force damage. Once you use this 
trait, you can’t use it again until you finish a long rest.
Imperfect Undeath. You are a humanoid, but your 
partial transition into undeath makes you susceptible 
to effects that target undead. Though you can regain 
hit points from spells like cure wounds, you can also be 
affected by effects that specifically target undead, such 
as a cleric’s Turn Undead feature. Effects that raise a 
creature from the dead work on you as normal, but 
they return you to life as a shade. A true resurrection 
or wish spell can restore you to life as a fully living 
member of your original race. 
Mysterious Origin. Stygian shades are born with 
almost no memory of their former lives but have 
an innate desire to remember who they are. When 
you create your stygian shade, decide which one of 
these questions you know the answer to. The rest are 
questions you seek to answer:
•	 What is your name?
•	 Where are you from?
•	 Who were the people you loved most?
•	 How did you die?
•	 What unfinished business has caused you to rise  
as a shade?
(This replaces the base shade’s Living Origin trait.)
Spectral Resilience. You have advantage on saving 
throws against poison and disease, and you have 
resistance to necrotic damage. 
Languages. You can speak, read, and write Umbral 
and one other language of your choice. 
SUBLIME RAVENFOLK
A growing proportion of ravenfolk have joined a 
mystery cult in the Shadow Realm; some claim 
this cult is new and others that it has ancient roots 
and is just now being revived. These ravenfolk call 
themselves Seekers of the Sublime and reportedly are 
Stygian Shades
Like other shades, stygian shades fade away as the 
remembrance of them becomes distant. But unlike those 
other shades, stygian shades, those shades that arise 
from the waters of the Shadow Realm, remember almost 
nothing of their previous lives, and they frequently strive 
to recover even the slightest detail of who they once 
were, collecting clues about their own past.
Stygian shades can still benefit from memento mori 
(see Tome of Heroes), and these can be one key in these 
characters regaining their memories.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 38 ---
38
Book of Ebon Tides
drawn by a mysterious psychic song. Their numbers 
are still few, but more arrive along the shadow 
roads from the mortal lands regularly, waiting for 
the unknown singer to reveal their intentions. This 
network is highly secretive about the details of their 
mission, but so far, they have not conducted open 
hostilities against the other peoples of shadow. 
Sublime ravenfolk are a subrace of ravenfolk. 
You can find more about the base ravenfolk race in 
Midgard Heroes Handbook. 
Sublime Ravenfolk Names
As with many other races whose native language is 
difficult for more humanlike vocal organs to deal 
with, ravenfolk tend to use different names among 
humans, dwarves, elves, and other humanoids than 
they use among their own kind. When choosing 
human-friendly names, ravenfolk borrow liberally 
from local traditions, mythology, and popular 
songs and poetry. They prefer evocative names (like 
Starshadow, Moonglow, and Rainshimmer) over 
more prosaic labels, but that’s as much consistency 
as it’s possible to define. Since these aren’t their real 
names, ravenfolk have little attachment to them.
Sublime Ravenfolk Traits
You are a ravenfolk mysteriously drawn to an 
unknown source within the Shadow Realm, which 
sets you apart from most other ravenfolk. 
You exhibit a few different traits from typical 
ravenfolk. The following traits include those shared 
with the base ravenfolk’s traits (see Midgard Heroes 
Handbook), though replacing the Ability Score 
Increase, Mimicry, Sudden Attack, and Trickster 
traits with those listed.
Ability Score Increase. Your Dexterity score 
increases by 2 and your Charisma score increases 
by 1. (This trait replaces the base ravenfolk’s Ability 
Score Increase trait.)
Age. Ravenfolk reach adulthood at 10 years of age 
and can live to be 110. 
Alignment. Sublime ravenfolk more often tend 
toward lawful alignments than their cousins in 
the mortal world. They tend to seek stability and 
connectedness in their relationships, entrusting their 
path to the song. 
Size. Ravenfolk are slighter and shorter than 
humans. They range from 4 feet to just shy of 6 feet 
tall. Your size is Medium. 
Speed. Your base walking speed is 30 feet. 
Constant Tune. You have advantage on saving 
throws against being charmed or frightened. (This 
trait replaces the base ravenfolk’s Sudden Attack trait.)
Cosmic Musician. You have proficiency in the 
Performance skill and gain proficiency with one 
musical instrument of your choice. (This trait replaces 
the base ravenfolk’s Trickster trait.)
Sublime Chord. As an action, you can mimic the 
mysterious sublime song to charm creatures within 
range. All creatures within 30 feet that can hear you 
must succeed on a DC 13 Charisma saving throw or 
become charmed by you for 10 minutes. The charmed 
creatures regard you as a casual friend. A creature 
makes this saving throw with advantage if you or your 
companions are fighting it. Once you use this ability, 
you cannot do so again until you complete a long rest. 
(This replaces the base ravenfolk’s Mimicry trait.)
Languages. You can speak, read, and write 
Common, Ravenfolk, and Umbral.
UNBOUND SATARRE
Satarre are renowned planar travelers, and visits to the 
Shadow Realm are no exception. As the populations 
of races grow in the various kingdoms of shadow, so 
the network of gateways feeding into their shadow 
roads also grows. None are more aware of this 
than the unbound satarre, a small faction zealously 
dedicated to unraveling barriers between the worlds. 
The unbound satarre are a curiosity even among their 
own kind since they have an instinctual sensitivity to 
places of transition. An unbound satarre is compelled 
to find such gateways and widen their influence 
through mundane or magical means. 
Unbound satarre are a subrace of satarre. You can 
find more about the base satarre race in Tome of Heroes. 
Unbound Satarre Names
Like other satarre, unbound satarre names often 
resemble names of the cultures where they are raised, 
though satarre raised on the planes or in cults of 
darkness or death tend toward names common to 
those planes or that invoke the cult’s tenets. Names in 
Void Speech are also common and are presented below.
All satarre are given cult names, indicating which 
dark god their lives were dedicated to at their naming 
day. Such names preface the name of the cult or god 
with ai- and sometimes shorten the cult or god’s name 
to two or three syllables. Most continue to serve or at 
least pray to these gods as adults, with varying degrees 
of piety. 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 39 ---
39
Umbral People and Heroes
Example Male Names: Aggorret (eater), 
Denahrek (servant), Medloss (binder), Mörkothr 
(darkness), Narkot (gnawer), Pälsore (slaver), Vessar 
(blooddrinker), Rabefress (slayer).
Example Female Names: Atlessa (jewel), Binulett 
(scout), Frizel (scribe), Ixa (blade), Miskra (maggot), 
Respy (builder), Unskappa (wisdom), Unterra (doom).
Unbound Satarre Traits
You are a satarre with a tendency for plane-hopping 
that sets you apart from most other satarre. 
You exhibit a few different traits from typical 
satarre. The following traits include those shared with 
the base satarre’s traits (see Tome of Heroes), though 
replacing the Ability Score Increase, A Friend to 
Death, and Carrier of Rot traits with those listed.
Ability Score Increase. Your Constitution score 
increases by 2, and your Wisdom score increases by 
1. (This trait replaces the base satarre’s Ability Score 
Increase trait.)
Age. Satarre grow quickly, walking soon after 
hatching and reaching the development of a 
15-year‑old human by age 6. They maintain the same 
appearance until about 50 and then begin a rapid 
decline. Satarre often die violently, but those who live 
longer survive to no more than 65 years of age. 
Alignment. Satarre are born with a tendency toward 
evil akin to that of rapacious dragons, and when 
raised among other satarre or darakhul, they are 
usually evil. Those raised among other cultures tend 
toward the norm for those cultures. 
Size. Satarre are tall and thin, from 6 to 7 feet tall 
with peculiar, segmented limbs. Your size is Medium. 
Speed. Your base walking speed is 30 feet. 
Darkvision. Thanks to your dark planar parentage, 
you have superior vision in darkness. You can see 
in dim light within 60 feet of you as if it were bright 
light and in darkness as if it were dim light. You can’t 
discern color in darkness, only shades of gray. 
Keeper of Secrets. You have proficiency in the Arcana 
skill, and you have advantage on Intelligence (Arcana) 
checks related to the planes and planar travel. In 
addition, you have proficiency in one of the following 
skills of your choice: History, Insight, or Religion. 
Portal Sense. While in a confined space, you 
instinctively know the direction and distance to the 
closest nonmagical entrance or exit to the area you 
are currently in. You also have advantage on any 
Intelligence (Investigation) or Wisdom (Perception) 
ability checks made to find secret or invisible doors 
and magical portals. (This trait replaces the base 
satarre’s A Friend of Death trait.)
Unraveling Touch. You can use your action to 
attempt to tear at the reality that keeps a being 
together. Choose a creature that you can see within 
30 feet. The creature must make a Constitution 
saving throw. The DC for this saving throw equals 
8 + your Constitution modifier + your proficiency 
bonus. A creature that fails the saving throw must use 
its action each turn to repeat the saving throw as it 
attempts to keep itself in one piece. On a successful 
save, the effect ends on the target. Once you use this 
feature, you cannot do so again until you complete a 
long rest. (This trait replaces the base satarre’s Carrier 
of Rot trait.)
Languages. You can speak, read, and write Umbral 
and either Abyssal, Infernal, or Void Speech. 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 40 ---
40
Book of Ebon Tides
WYRD GNOME
Wyrd gnomes are accomplished arcanists and have 
a preferred status as servitors to shadow fey, having 
come with them to the Shadow Realm. Wyrd gnomes 
possess physical traits typical to the type of gnomes 
to which they are born, but they are born with two 
different colored eyes: the right one always blue, the 
left one always green. Wyrd gnomes possess an innate 
prescient ability that grows stronger in proximity to 
other wyrd gnomes. Some gnome communities find 
their powers a blessing while others find it disturbing. 
Over generations, wyrd gnomes have gathered 
together in small communities of their own kind. 
However, wyrd gnomes don’t always birth more wyrd 
gnomes, and their communities and families have 
gnomes of other varieties within them.
Given the collective prescient power of wyrd 
gnome communities, they can be fascinating places 
to visit. Travelers may enter an inn to find the food 
and drink they wished to order already in place on 
a table. Conversations may start with wyrd gnomes 
giving answers before the questions are asked.
Wyrd Gnome Names
Naming conventions among wyrd gnomes are 
standard for their parent community, except where 
clan names are concerned. When an individual moves 
to a wyrd gnome community, they take the clan’s 
name of the household that adopts them, or they 
create a new one if they relocate as an adult.
Example Clan Names: Alkuper, Begynn, 
Gingercrick, Goldenlock, Istovash, Kunnian, 
Murena, Muliget, Sadrienn, Turvalis.
Wyrd Gnome Traits
You are a gnome with a natural prescience that sets 
you apart from most other gnomes. 
Ability Score Increase. Your Wisdom score increases 
by 1.
Natural Diviner. You have an innate knack for 
understanding the world and can catch glimpses of 
the mysteries of the universe. You know the guidance 
cantrip. When you reach 3rd level, you can cast the 
identify spell with this trait, requiring no material 
components, and starting at 5th level, you can cast 
the augury spell with it. Once you cast a non-cantrip 
spell with this trait, you can’t do so again until you 
finish a long rest. Wisdom is your spellcasting ability 
for these spells. 
Prescience. When you finish a long rest, roll a d20 
and record the number rolled. Before your next long 
rest, you can replace one attack roll, saving throw, or 
ability check made by you or a creature that you can 
see with this prescience roll. You must choose to do 
so before the roll. 
If 20 wyrd gnomes are present within a half mile of 
you when you make the prescience roll, you can add 1 
to the result. Every time the number of nearby wyrd 
gnomes is doubled, you gain an additional bonus of 1 
to the roll (+2 for 40 gnomes, +3 for 80, and so on) to 
a maximum bonus of +5.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 41 ---
Book of Ebon Tides
Heroes native to the Shadow Realm are often quite 
distinct. Their powers are attuned to drawing from 
shadow or to resisting it, and many heroes know the 
allure of darkness all too well. This chapter provides 
ten new heroic subclasses appropriate to the plane.
Circle of Shadows (Druid)
Druids who belong to the Circle of Shadows 
embrace the primal power of darkness as the purest 
distillation of the natural world. While other druids 
might concern themselves with balance, the Circle of 
Shadows understands that all things eventually return 
to darkness, so it must be understood. 
UMBRAL FORM
Starting at 2nd level, as a bonus action, you can expend 
a use of your Wild Shape feature to take on a shadowy 
umbral form, rather than transforming into a beast.
While in your umbral form, you retain your 
statistics, but your body becomes transparent like 
smoke. The form lasts for 10 minutes. It ends early if 
you dismiss it (no action required), are incapacitated, 
die, or use this feature again.
While you are in this form, you gain the following 
features:
•	 While in dim light or darkness, you can take the 
Hide action as a bonus action. 
•	 You can move through a space as narrow as 1 inch 
wide without squeezing.
•	 When a creature you can see hits you with a melee 
attack, you can use your reaction to deal cold 
damage equal to your proficiency bonus to that 
creature. 
CIRCLE SPELLS
You have embraced the powers of shadow, a dark 
force that suffuses reality. Your connection to this 
energy grants you access to some spells when you 
reach 3rd, 5th, 7th, and 9th level in this class as shown 
on the Circle of Shadow Spells table.
Heroes from the Shadows
Heroes from the Shadows
3
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 42 ---
42
Book of Ebon Tides
Once you gain access to one of these spells, you 
always have it prepared, and it doesn’t count against 
the number of spells you can prepare each day. If you 
gain access to a spell that doesn’t appear on the druid 
spell list, the spell is nonetheless a druid spell for you.
CIRCLE OF SHADOW SPELLS
Cleric Level
Spells
2nd
bane, false life
3rd
darkness, darkvision
5th
blink, fear
7th
black tentacles, greater invisibility
9th
cone of cold, dream
DARK SERVANT 
At 6th level, you gain the ability to awaken shadows 
to do your bidding. As a bonus action, you can target 
a creature that you can see within 30 feet. That 
creature’s shadow comes to life as a separate creature 
under your command, using the shadow stat block.
The shadow appears in an unoccupied space 
within 5 feet of the target and can act immediately. 
The shadow acts on your initiative, it must spend 
its turn moving toward the target by the most direct 
route, and it can use its action only to attack the 
target (and no action is required by you to command 
the shadow). If the shadow hits with an attack, 
instead of doing any damage, the target instead has 
disadvantage on the first attack or saving throw 
it makes before the start of the shadow’s 
next turn.
The shadow disappears if it is reduced 
to 0 hit points, if its target is reduced to 
0 hit points, or after 5 minutes.
You can use this feature a number of times equal 
to your Wisdom modifier (minimum of once), and 
you regain all expended uses when you finish a 
long rest.
SHADOW MASS
At 10th level, your Umbral Form grows in 
power. While in this form, you gain the 
following additional benefits:
•	 You gain a fly speed equal to your 
normal speed, and you can hover.
•	 You have resistance to all bludgeoning, 
piercing, and slashing damage from 
nonmagical attacks.
DARKNESS FALLS
At 14th level, you can use an action to emit a 15-foot-
radius sphere of magical darkness centered on 
yourself. The sphere moves with you, and its darkness 
spreads around corners. When you create the sphere, 
you can designate any number of creatures that can 
see through the darkness, but otherwise, a creature 
with darkvision can’t see through it, and nonmagical 
light can’t illuminate it. 
The sphere lasts for 1 minute, until you are 
incapacitated, or until it comes into contact with 
sunlight. If any of this effect’s area overlaps with an 
area of light created by a spell of 7th level or lower, the 
spell that created the light is dispelled.
Once you use this feature, you cannot do so again 
until you finish a short or long rest. 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 43 ---
43
Umbral People and Heroes
College of Shadow (Bard)
Fear of darkness is one of the most primal emotions, 
and bards of the College of Shadow manipulate such 
fears to enhance their artistry. These bards weave the 
gray boundaries between light and dark to terrify and 
inspire captive audiences. 
DANCING SHADOWS
When you join the College of Shadow at 3rd level, 
you gain the ability to weave a pocket of protective 
shadows.
As a bonus action, you can expend a Bardic 
Inspiration to create a 20-foot-radius sphere of 
shifting shadows centered on you. The sphere moves 
with you, spreads around corners, and lasts for 1 
minute or until you are incapacitated or die. 
Allied creatures (including you) standing in the 
sphere have half cover, and creatures outside the 
sphere have disadvantage on Wisdom (Perception) 
checks made to perceive anything inside the sphere. 
Darkvision does not nullify this effect. Creatures that 
don’t rely on eyesight are immune to this effect. 
If any of this effect’s area overlaps with an area of 
light created by a spell of 2nd level or lower, the spell 
that created the light is dispelled.
FEAR OF THE DARK
Also at 3rd level, your intimate knowledge of 
darkness allows you to harness its frightful properties 
to the fullest and keep your allies grounded. While in 
dim light or darkness, you and any allies that can see 
you have advantage against fear effects. Additionally, 
any hostile creatures that can see you roll with 
disadvantage against fear effects. 
SHADE STEP
At 6th level, shadow gathers around those you inspire. 
Immediately after a creature adds one of your Bardic 
Inspiration dice to its ability check, attack roll, or 
saving throw, the creature can magically teleport up to 
30 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. Moving in 
this manner does not provoke attacks of opportunity.
NIGHT MUSIC
At 14th level, you can imbue your spellcasting with 
the full energy and terror of night. When you cast a 
spell, you can spend your reaction to also choose a 
number of creatures within 60 feet of you who saw 
and heard you cast the spell, up to a number equal 
to your Charisma modifier (minimum of one). Each 
target must succeed on a Charisma saving throw 
against your spell save DC or be frightened for 1 
minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the 
end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on 
a success. 
Once you use this feature, you can’t use it again 
until you finish a short or long rest. 
Keeper Domain (Cleric)
The Keeper domain focuses on social bonds and 
well‑regulated communities. These communities 
might be as small as an adventuring party or as large 
as a city, but all require safety and comfort to thrive. 
Keeper domain clerics excel in leadership positions 
and are the first to take up arms when their homes or 
allies need protection.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 44 ---
44
Book of Ebon Tides
KEEPER DOMAIN SPELLS
Cleric Level
Spells
1st
command, hunter’s mark
3rd
calm emotions, warding bond
5th
beacon of hope, spirit guardians
7th
death ward, guardian of faith
9th
hallow, telepathic bond
BLESSED CHOSEN
Starting at 1st level, you can assert your divine will 
to protect your allies. When an enemy within 30 feet 
of you that you can see attacks one of your allies, you 
can use your reaction to impose disadvantage on the 
attack roll before it hits or misses.
You can use this feature a number of times equal 
to your Wisdom modifier (a minimum of once). You 
regain all expended uses when you finish a long rest.
BONUS PROFICIENCIES
Also at 1st level, you gain proficiency with martial 
weapons. You also gain proficiency in the Persuasion 
skill.
CHANNEL DIVINITY: DIVINE INITIATIVE
Starting at 2nd level, you can use your Channel 
Divinity to enhance your allies’ potential.
As an action, you present your holy 
symbol and choose a number of creatures 
that you can see and that can see you within 60 
feet of you, up to a number equal to your Wisdom 
modifier (minimum of one). Each of them gains 
5 temporary hit points. When a target gains these 
temporary hit points, they can immediately use their 
reaction to make one weapon attack.
The number of temporary hit points increases 
when you reach certain levels in this class, increasing 
to 8 at 6th level, 11 at 8th level, and 14 at 17th level.
FIGHTING FIT
At 6th level, you gain the ability to shore up your 
allies’ reserves. As a reaction, when you or an ally 
that you can see within 30 feet of you is charmed, 
frightened, paralyzed, or stunned, you can remove 
that condition. 
You can use this feature a number of times equal 
to your Wisdom modifier (minimum of once). You 
regain all expended uses when you finish a long rest.
HOBBLING STRIKE
At 8th level, you gain the ability to infuse your weapon 
strikes with divine energy. Once on each of your turns 
when you hit a creature with a weapon attack, the 
target must make a Strength saving throw against 
your spell save DC or be knocked prone. When you 
reach 14th level, the target’s speed is also halved until 
the start of your next turn.
DUTY OVER DEATH
Starting at 17th level, you can exert your power to 
call companions back from the brink of death. When 
an ally you can see within 60 feet of you is reduced 
to 0 hit points but not killed outright, they instead 
remain conscious and regain hit points equal to half 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 45 ---
45
Umbral People and Heroes
their maximum hit points. You can use this feature 
only if you aren’t incapacitated. Once you use this 
feature, you can’t do so again until you finish a short 
or long rest.
Light Weaver Sorcerous Origin 
(Sorcerer)
Your powers are drawn from the spark of light 
kindled within you. In places of great darkness, there 
are always those born with the affinity for light, and 
every shadow must have a shining source. The magic 
within you represents cosmic balance, and like the 
light, your magic flickers from radiance to darkness 
moment to moment.
TRICK OF THE LIGHT
Starting at 1st level, you can see normally in darkness, 
both magical and nonmagical, to a distance of 60 feet.
FLICKERING AURA
Starting at 1st level, you can choose whether your 
magic is light-shifted or dark-shifted. You can 
change your choice at the end of a long rest.
While light-shifted you can use an action 
to emit an aura of bright light in a 15-foot-
radius sphere centered on yourself. While the 
aura persists, you can use a bonus action to expand 
or reduce its radius of bright light by 5 feet, to a 
maximum of 30 feet each or a minimum of 10 feet. 
While dark-shifted you gain the same ability, but 
you project an aura of nonmagical darkness.
REFRACTION SHIELD
At 6th level, you can manipulate the light around 
you for protection. As a bonus action, you can spend 
3 sorcery points to magically create a shield of light. 
While the shield is in place, whenever a creature 
within 5 feet of you hits you with a melee attack, the 
shield flashes with searing energy, and the attacker 
takes 2d8 radiant damage if you are light-shifted 
or 2d8 necrotic damage if you are dark-shifted. The 
shield disappears if you fall unconscious or after 10 
minutes.
AURA MAGNIFICATION
Starting at 14th level, your manipulation of the light 
around you becomes masterful. While light-shifted, 
your Flickering Aura produces sunlight. While dark-
shifted, your aura produces magical darkness.
If any of this aura’s area overlaps with an area of 
light or darkness created by a spell equal to or lower 
than the level of your highest available spell slot, the 
spell that created the light or darkness is dispelled.
SPELL BLIND
Beginning at 18th level, your spell energy overwhelms 
your target’s perceptions. As an action, you can spend 
5 sorcery points to empower your Flickering Aura. 
For 1 minute or until you lose your concentration (as 
if you were casting a concentration spell), each hostile 
creature that starts its turn within 60 feet of you must 
succeed on a Constitution saving throw or be blinded 
until the aura ends. 
Illumination Magic
If you have access to Deep Magic, consider granting 
light weaver sorcerers spells from the school of 
Illumination. These are spells dealing with light, stars, 
and darkness and fit the character type perfectly from a 
story and theme perspective. 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 46 ---
46
Book of Ebon Tides
Mother of Sorrows (Warlock)
Universal suffering has given rise to an enigmatic 
being known as the Mother of Sorrows, and warlocks 
who bind themselves to her cause seek to spread 
her poisonous vengeance. The Mother of Sorrows 
was born from the suffering of parents who have 
lost children to pestilence, disease, and treachery, 
and her gifts grant warlocks the power to avenge the 
thousands of sorrows laid at her feet.
EXPANDED SPELL LIST
The Mother of Sorrows lets you choose from an 
expanded list of spells when you learn a warlock  
spell. The following spells are added to the warlock 
spell list for you.
EXPANDED SPELL LIST
Spell Level
Spells
1st
detect poison and disease, inflict wounds
2nd
ray of enfeeblement, silence
3rd
stinking cloud, vampiric touch
4th
greater invisibility, phantasmal killer
5th
cloudkill, contagion
POISON SOUL
Starting at 1st level, your affinity for poison becomes 
supernatural. Any poison damage you deal ignores 
any resistance or immunity. 
VENOMOUS MARK
Also at 1st level, as a bonus action, choose one 
creature you can see within 30 feet of you. The target 
is cursed for 1 minute. The curse ends early if the 
target dies, you die, or you are incapacitated. Until 
the curse ends, you deal an extra 1d6 poison damage 
to the target whenever you hit it with a spell attack. 
(You can only apply this damage once per spell even if 
there are multiple spell attack instances, such as with 
eldritch blast.) 
If the target drops to 0 hit points before the curse 
ends, you can use a bonus action on a subsequent turn 
of yours to curse a new creature. Only one creature can 
be affected with a venomous mark at any given time. 
SICKENING REVENGE
Starting at 6th level, you can take vengeance on those 
who harm you. When you take damage, you can use 
your reaction to attempt to poison the creature that 
damaged you. The triggering creature must make a 
Constitution saving throw against your warlock spell 
save DC or become poisoned for 1 minute. An affected 
creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each 
of its turns, ending the condition on a success.
Once you use this feature, you can’t use it again 
until you finish a short or long rest.
DARK INOCULATION 
Starting at 10th level, your poisonous magic has 
infused your body. You are immune to disease, poison 
damage, and the poisoned condition.
TOUCH OF SORROW
Starting at 14th level, when you hit a creature with 
an attack, you can use this feature to infuse the target 
with your sorrow. The target must make a Wisdom 
saving throw or be paralyzed and poisoned for 24 
hours. The creature remains paralyzed until it takes 
damage or is no longer poisoned. 
You must finish a short or long rest before you can 
use this feature again.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 47 ---
47
Umbral People and Heroes
Shadow Arcane Tradition (Wizard)
The powers of shadow are an obsession for wizards 
who follow the Shadow Arcane tradition. Because 
they understand shadow’s tantalizing powers—and 
seek to learn more—these practitioners infuse their 
very beings with it to discover its secrets firsthand.
SHADOW SYMBIOTE
At 2nd level, you bond a living shadow to your body, 
wearing it like a second skin. While you are bonded in 
this way, you gain the following:
•	 You gain darkvision out to a range of 60 feet. If 
you already have darkvision, its range is extended 
by 60 feet.
•	 You can see in magical darkness out to a range of 
30 feet. 
•	 You have sunlight sensitivity, and while in 
sunlight, you have disadvantage on attack rolls as 
well as on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on 
sight. 
DARK TRANSFUSION
Starting at 2nd level, you can feed energy to your 
symbiote to transform it. As a bonus action, you 
can expend two spell slots to recover one spell slot 
equal to or less than the total combined value of the 
expended spell slots. For example, you could expend 
a 1st-level spell slot and a 2nd-level spell slot to 
recover one 3rd-level spell slot. 
ORB OF NIGHT
At 6th level, your shadow symbiote can expand 
to hide you from foes. When a creature makes an 
attack roll against you, you can use your reaction 
to encase yourself in a 10-foot-radius sphere of 
magical darkness (imposing disadvantage on attacks 
against you if a creature cannot see through magical 
darkness). If the triggering target hits you with the 
attack, you can’t use this feature on the attacker again 
until you finish a long rest. The darkness persists until 
the beginning of your next turn.
You must choose to use this feature before knowing 
whether the attack hits or misses. Creatures that don’t 
rely on eyesight are immune to this effect.
FROM THE SHADOWS
Starting at 10th level, your shadow symbiote 
camouflages you, allowing you to get the drop on your 
enemies. Whenever you roll initiative while in dim 
light or darkness, you are automatically hidden from 
all creatures at least 10 feet away from you. You are no 
longer hidden if you move, attack, or cast a spell. 
SECOND SKIN
Starting at 14th level, your shadow symbiote shares 
your pain. While in dim light or darkness, you have a 
+2 to AC and resistance to all bludgeoning, piercing, 
and slashing damage. 
Shadow Domain (Cleric)
The Shadow domain embraces the darkness that 
surrounds all things and manipulates the transitory 
gray that separates light from dark. Shadow domain 
clerics walk a subtle path, frequently changing 
allegiances and preferring to operate unseen.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 48 ---
48
Book of Ebon Tides
SHADOW DOMAIN SPELLS
Cleric Level
Spells
1st
bane, false life
3rd
blindness/deafness, darkness
5th
blink, fear
7th
black tentacles, greater invisibility
9th
cone of cold, dream
COVER OF NIGHT
When you choose this domain at 1st level, you gain 
proficiency in the Stealth skill and darkvision out to 
a range of 60 feet. If you already have darkvision, its 
range increases by 30 feet. In addition, when you are 
in dim light or darkness, you can use a bonus action 
to Hide.
LENGTHEN SHADOW
Starting at 1st level, you can manipulate your own 
shadow to extend your reach. When you cast a cleric 
spell with a range of touch, your shadow can deliver 
the spell as if you had cast the spell. Your target must 
be within 15 feet of you, and you must be able to see 
the target. You can use this feature even if you are in 
an area where you cast no shadow.
When you reach 10th level in this class, your 
shadow can affect any target you can see within 30 
feet of you.
CHANNEL DIVINITY: SHADOW GRASP
Starting at 2nd level, you can use your Channel 
Divinity to turn a creature’s shadow against them. As 
an action, choose one creature that you can see within 
30 feet of you. That creature must make a Strength 
saving throw. If the creature fails the saving throw, 
it is restrained by its shadow until the end of your 
next turn. If the creature succeeds, it is grappled by 
its shadow until the end of your next turn. You can 
use this feature even if the target is in an area where it 
casts no shadow.
FADE TO BLACK
At 6th level, you can conceal yourself in shadow. As a 
bonus action when you are in dim light or darkness, 
you can magically become invisible for 1 minute. 
This effect ends early if you attack or cast a spell. You 
can use this feature a number of times equal to your 
proficiency bonus. You regain all expended uses when 
you finish a long rest.
POTENT SPELLCASTING
Starting at 8th level, you add your Wisdom modifier 
to the damage you deal with any cleric cantrip.
ARMY OF SHADOW
At 17th level, you can manipulate multiple shadows 
simultaneously. When you use Shadow Grasp, 
you can affect a number of creatures equal to your 
proficiency bonus.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 49 ---
49
Umbral People and Heroes
Umbral Binder (Rogue)
Some rogues are content to steal mere treasures, but 
umbral binders possess the energies that shape the 
world. Through secret rites and rituals, these rogues 
have learned to bind the powers of shadow into 
themselves and to use its power to fuel their abilities.
EYES IN THE DARK
When you choose this archetype at 3rd level, your 
experience with the raw magic of shadow affects your 
senses. You gain darkvision out to a range of 120 feet. 
SHADOW BIND
Starting at 3rd level, you can perform a special ritual 
to siphon the power of shadow and bind it to yourself. 
You can conduct this ritual during a long rest. 
Performing the ritual requires time spent meditating 
in nonmagical darkness for at least 1 hour. At the end 
Shadow Gnawer (Barbarian)
Dark energy infuses the Shadow Realm, corrupting 
and corroding everything it touches. Some 
barbarians intentionally consume this raw shadow, 
infusing their bodies with shadow energy to manifest 
potent magical abilities. 
Many of the barbarians who walk this path do so 
to absorb harmful shadow magic into themselves in 
order to protect others from its influence. A smaller 
group consumes shadow simply because they cannot 
resist its ever-present temptation. 
SHADOW SMOKE
Starting at 3rd level, you emanate tendrils of shadow 
smoke while you rage. The smoke extends 10 feet 
from you in every direction. Any creature (other than 
you) that starts its turn in the smoke has disadvantage 
on its next attack roll. 
CREEPING FOG
Starting at 6th level, you can burst into a mist of raw 
shadow and then reassemble yourself somewhere 
else. As an action, you magically teleport, along with 
any equipment you are wearing or carrying, up to 60 
feet to an unoccupied space you can see. Before or 
after teleporting, you can make one melee attack.
CONSUME DARKNESS
At 10th level, while raging, you can feed on the 
shadows around you to restore your vitality. While in 
dim light or darkness, you can use a bonus action to 
regain hit points equal to 1d12 + your Constitution 
modifier. For the duration of your rage (up to 1 
minute), you regain 1 hit point at the start of each of 
your turns.
Once you use this feature, you must finish a short 
or long rest before you can use it again.
CORROSIVE HAZE
At 14th level, your Shadow Smoke is more potent. 
Any hostile creature that enters the smoke or starts 
its turn in the smoke must succeed on a Constitution 
saving throw or be blinded until the beginning of its 
next turn. The DC equals 8 + your proficiency bonus + 
your Constitution modifier. Creatures that don’t rely 
on eyesight are immune to this effect.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 50 ---
50
Book of Ebon Tides
of the ritual, you choose one of the following effects, 
which lasts for 24 hours or until you perform the 
ritual again:
•	 When you are in dim light or darkness, as part of 
your move, you can teleport up to half your speed 
to an unoccupied space you can see that is also in 
dim light or darkness. You then have advantage on 
the first Dexterity (Stealth) check you make before 
the end of your turn. 
•	 When you are in dim light or darkness, if you 
move at least half your speed, you benefit from a 
perpetual half cover until the start of your next 
turn: +2 bonus to AC and Dexterity saving throws.
•	 When you hit with a melee or ranged weapon 
attack, you can cause the attack to deal additional 
cold damage equal to your proficiency bonus. 
You can use this feature only once on each of your 
turns.
CLOAKED DAGGER
At 9th level, shadows hide your every strike. You 
gain an additional way to use your Sneak Attack. You 
don’t need advantage on the attack roll to use your 
Sneak Attack against a creature if you are within 30 
feet, are in dim light or darkness, and you don’t have 
disadvantage on the attack roll. All the other rules for 
Sneak Attack still apply to you.
BLACK MAGIC
At 13th level, you can draw more power from the 
shadows bound to you. As a bonus action, you can 
cast darkness without providing material components. 
Once you use this feature three times, you cannot do 
so again until you finish a long rest.
Additionally, when you are in an area of dim light or 
darkness, you can use your action to become invisible. 
You remain invisible until you make an attack, cast a 
spell, or are in an area of bright light.
SHADOW GRASP
At 17th level, you can wrap your foes in debilitating 
shadow. When you deal Sneak Attack damage to a 
creature, you can force them to make a Dexterity 
saving throw (DC 8 + your proficiency bonus + your 
Dexterity modifier). If the save fails, the target is 
restrained for 1 minute. The restrained target can 
repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, 
ending the effect on itself on a success. 
Once you use this feature, you can’t do so again 
until you finish a short or long rest.
Way of the Prophet (Monk)
Monks who follow the Way of the Prophet refuse to 
cloister the wisdom they have learned. They are driven 
to spread their knowledge to all the peoples of the 
land. Some are set on this path by divine intervention. 
Others take up the prophet’s mantle out of a sense of 
personal obligation, and they all share a deep-rooted 
faith that empowers their actions.
WISE WORDS
When you choose this tradition at 3rd level, you gain 
proficiency in the Performance and Persuasion skills. 
Additionally, whenever you roll an ability check using 
a Charisma-based skill, you can use your Wisdom 
modifier instead of your Charisma modifier.
CHARMING AURA
Additionally, when you choose this tradition at 3rd 
level, you can use your ki to duplicate the effects of 
certain spells. As an action, you can spend a ki point 
to cast charm person or command, or you can expend 2 
ki points to cast suggestion.
RIGHTEOUS STRIKE
At 6th level, when you hit a target with an unarmed 
strike, you can spend 1 ki point to cause the attack to 
deal either radiant (if you are good-aligned or neutral-
aligned) or necrotic (if you are evil-aligned) damage 
equal to your proficiency bonus. You can use this 
feature only once on each of your turns. 
BLESSED CHOSEN
Beginning at 11th level, you are protected by the 
forces who spur your mission. If you are reduced to 0 
hit points, you immediately regain hit points equal to 
your monk level. Alternatively, you can use an action 
to touch a fallen creature that has been dead for no 
longer than 10 minutes, and they return to life with 
hit points equal to your monk level.
You must finish a long rest before you can use this 
feature again. 
FORCE OF PERSONALITY
Whenever any creature tries to attack you for the first 
time on a turn, you can use your reaction to roll a 
Charisma (Performance or Persuasion) ability check. 
If your check is higher than the creature’s Wisdom 
ability score, it can’t attack you on this turn, and it 
must choose a new target for its attack, or the attack 
is wasted. 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 51 ---
Book of Ebon Tides
The Shadow Realm resonates with magic, and the 
land itself is but shadow matter, a source of arcane 
shaping for those who understand it. And creatures 
born into or corrupted by shadow may develop unique 
magical abilities, possessing great power over illusion, 
enchantments, and the manipulation of shadow. 
With magic woven into its very nature, the plane is 
fertile ground for some schools and styles of magic. 
At the same time, spells and other magic used within 
its borders can produce unexpected effects. Most 
of these effects appear unsettling but are merely 
cosmetic. Spells that create light, for instance, glow 
with a sickly green, blue, or purple illumination. 
Energy created by spells pulsates with black veins, 
writhes in dark flames, or crackles with black 
lightning. Conjured animals are drawn from those 
typically found in the Shadow Realm, possessing pale 
or dark coats and coldly gleaming eyes. 
The Magic of  
Shadow and Light 
Apart from leaving its mark on magic brought into 
the domain, the Shadow Realm also spawns new 
and enigmatic magic. Spellcasters seeking paths to 
power and shadow fey living in the depths of shadow 
have developed two unique disciplines of magic: 
the studies of illumination and shadow magic. In 
addition, the darakhul of the Shadow Realm have a 
number of necromantic spells unique to the realm, 
and bearfolk and shadow goblins command several 
lunar spells involving the arcane use of moonlight 
and the manipulation of wind, rain, and fog. The 
Shadow domain is also unique to the plane (see 
Chapter 3 for details).
Magic in the Shadow Realm
Magic in the Shadow Realm
4
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 52 ---
52
Book of Ebon Tides
UMBRAL MAGIC: EMPOWERED ILLUSIONS
The raw matter of shadow has always been a source 
of arcane power for the schools of illusion and 
shadow magic. This shadowstuff’s role in illusion 
and phantasm is much greater in the Shadow Realm, 
where a caster can draw on the material all around 
them to make their spells stronger, longer-lasting, 
harder to see through, or simply useful in new and 
unexpected ways. Here are some optional effects for 
existing spells, empowering illusions and shadow 
magic—but only when such spells are cast in the 
Shadow Realm.
Many spells with the shadow or illumination 
keywords in their description are empowered when 
cast in the Shadow Realm. This includes such spells 
from this volume as well as those of shadow 
and illumination magic found in Deep 
Magic (which are marked below with 
an asterisk):
•	 Black Ribbons*. This spell affects 
a 30-foot cube instead of a 
20‑foot cube. 
•	 Black Tentacles. This spell 
affects a 30-foot cube instead of 
a 20‑foot cube. 
•	 Blur. This spell is effective against 
opponents with truesight. 
•	 Color Spray. At higher levels, you add 2d12 rather 
than 2d10 to its damage. 
•	 Creation. You can create up to a 10-foot cube of 
new material. The material you create lasts longer, 
as shown here: vegetable matter, 1 week; stone or 
crystal, 1 day; precious metals, 4 hours; gems, 1 
hour; adamantine or mithral, 2 minutes.
•	 Dancing Lights. In the Shadow Realm, you can 
create up to six lights and combine them into two 
glowing humanoids. Further, a caster of 5th level 
or higher can split them into two groups. 
•	 Dark Path*. This spell creates a path or bridge of 
100 feet rather than 50 feet.
•	 Douse*. This spell can affect a campfire in addition 
to a lantern or torch.
•	 Hallucinatory Terrain. This spell can be used to 
generate terrain that will hold for longer than 
Shadow & Illumination Magic 
Illumination magic deals in duality, befitting its origin 
among the shadow fey. Utilizing the extremes of light 
and darkness, illumination magic draws on portents 
written in the stars to glimpse the future, channel 
starfire, and more safely control the powers of shadow. 
The dark practice of shadow magic, however, owes 
its origin to mortal sorcerers, wizards, and warlocks who 
craved power and thought they understood the risks 
inherent in obtaining it. Unlike the light and darkness 
bent through illumination magic, shadow magic taps 
into the raw stuff of shadow and brings it to bear. This 
magic is never without a price. 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 53 ---
53
Magic in the Shadow Realm
usual in the Shadow Realm (3 days rather than 24 
hours). In addition, one built structure in the area 
of effect can be hidden by fog or shadows by the 
use of this spell.
•	 Legion*. Your shadowy soldiers fill two 10-foot 
cubes rather than one. 
•	 Minor Illusion. This effect can last up to 2 minutes 
rather than 1. In addition, objects created can 
create a simple sound, such as creaking, chirping, 
or moaning (but not language).
•	 Mirage Arcane. This spell generates terrain that 
holds for longer than usual in the Shadow Realm 
(a month rather than 10 days). Any piece of the 
illusory terrain (such as a rock or stick) that is 
removed from the spell’s area remains solid, made 
real by the power of shadow.
•	 Phantasmal Killer. This spell does 4d12 rather than 
4d10 damage. In addition, when you cast this spell 
using a spell slot of 5th level or higher, the damage 
increases by 1d12 for each slot level above 4th.
•	 Phantom Steed. The creature uses the statistics for 
a warhorse, except it has a speed of 120 feet and can 
travel 12 miles in an hour or 15 miles at a fast pace.
•	 Programmed Illusion. This spell can be used to 
create an illusory program of up to 10 minutes 
rather than 5, and speaking creatures within the 
program appear to listen when addressed. 
•	 Seeming. This spell changes creatures’ appearance 
for up to 1 day rather than 8 hours. 
•	 Shadow Gateway*. Casting this in the Shadow 
Realm opens a portal to the mortal world rather 
than a portal to the Shadow Realm.
•	 Shadow Step*. You can move up to 120 feet per 
shadow step, and this spell does not require 
concentration in the Shadow Realm.
•	 Shield of Starlight*. This spell grants protection 
from both radiant and necrotic damage. 
•	 Silent Image. This spell does not require 
concentration when cast in the Shadow Realm. 
•	 Simulacrum. The simulacrum has 3/4 the 
creature’s hit point maximum and is formed with 
clothes and one simple tool.
•	 Sunburst. Casting this spell creates a radiant 
well (see Chapter 5) in the square where it is 
centered. This lasts for 1d6 days, and it may 
become permanent if further measures are taken 
to strengthen it (such as with the daylight spell or 
the like).
•	 True Seeing. This spell requires concentration to 
maintain in the Shadow Realm. 
GM NOTE: MANIPULATING  
SHADOW LANDSCAPES
Spellcasters in the Shadow Realm often describe their 
magic in terms of gathering shadow or radiant energy 
and of pulling arcane power from the land or from the 
skies. In particular, much of shadow magic involves 
gathering the flow of shadow matter into a caster’s 
hand, pulling it into a vessel, and then bending or 
shaping that matter to suit one’s purpose. You should 
feel free to describe villain, monster, and NPC magic 
in similar terms.
Additionally, the landscape itself sometimes 
holds the power of raw shadow, a thrumming sense 
of potential, of deception or wild transformation. 
Spellcasters from other lands claim that magic can 
be smelled or almost touched in the Shadow Realm, 
especially illusion, illumination, and necromantic 
magics. And in truth, spellcasters using detect magic 
can see raw pools of shadow, often in dark water or 
shadow mire, along luminous paths, or spread across 
a marsh like a web. Witchlights and will-o’-wisps 
seem drawn to these forms of raw shadow power. (For 
more on dark water and other hazards of the Shadow 
Realm, see Chapter 5.)
More settled power can be seen around shadow 
roads, foundation stones, and similar binding places, 
including hallucinatory terrain, mirage arcane, and 
the like. When such settled shadow is given form, it 
tends to hold and keep that form unless unbound and 
dissolved by radiant spells or by detect magic. (For 
more on the creation of shadow roads, see Chapter 1.)
Optional Rule: Radiance 
Dispelling Shadow 
As an optional rule to reduce the power of shadow 
mages in the Shadow Realm, you might decide that 
a daylight spell can act as a dispel magic against all 
spells with the shadow keyword in its area of effect. 
Producing light this way is certainly considered hostile 
among shadow goblins and shadow fey—but they use 
this trick among themselves as well.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 54 ---
54
Book of Ebon Tides
Spells Lists
The spells presented here were created by the shadow fey, bearfolk, darakhul, shadow goblins, and others 
within the Shadow Realm. Check with your GM before selecting these spells.
1ST LEVEL
Doom of Poor Fortune
Emerald Goblet 
Fireflies 
2ND LEVEL
Conjure Ferryman
Drayfn’s Blunted Blade
Ominous Winds
3RD LEVEL
Deep Roots of the Moon
Faerie Toast 
Lost 
Orros Mark of Fate
4TH LEVEL
Drayfn’s Curse of Incompetence
Knife of Fate
Moonlight Sending 
Portho’s Portal 
Storm Door 
5TH LEVEL
Hero of Fable 
Krail’s Rot
Lost and Wandering 
6TH LEVEL
Grim Harvest
7TH LEVEL
Doom of Summer Years
Ebon Tide
8TH LEVEL
Child of Light and Darkness 
Druid spells
CANTRIP (0 LEVEL)
Drizzle 
Flowering
1ST LEVEL
Fireflies 
2ND LEVEL
Hibernation
Krail’s Maggot
Krail’s Rupture
Ominous Winds
3RD LEVEL
Bitter Wind 
Deep Roots of the Moon
Faerie Toast 
Lost 
4TH LEVEL
Drayfn’s Curse of Incompetence
Knife of Fate
Lunar Transfer 
Moonlight Sending 
Storm Door 
5TH LEVEL
Feast of Flesh
Krail’s Rot
Lost and Wandering 
Radiant Beacon 
6TH LEVEL
Conjure Giant
Doom of Stacked Stones
Grim Harvest
7TH LEVEL
Ebon Tide
Paladin spells
1ST LEVEL
Blade of Blood and Bone
Doom of Poor Fortune
Emerald Goblet 
2ND LEVEL
Drayfn’s Blunted Blade
Krail’s Rupture
3RD LEVEL
Faerie Toast 
4TH LEVEL
Drayfn’s Curse of Incompetence
5TH LEVEL
Hero of Fable 
BARD SPELLS
CANTRIPS (0 LEVEL)
Bright Sparks 
Drayfn’s Bane of Excellence
Obfuscate Object 
1ST LEVEL
Doom of Poor Fortune
Elf Shot 
Pratfall
2ND LEVEL
Drayfn’s Blunted Blade
Leiloch’s Irritating Kazoo 
Ominous Winds
Ugly Duckling 
3RD LEVEL
Faerie Toast 
Lost 
Shadow Portal 
4TH LEVEL
Drayfn’s Curse of Incompetence
Fire Dance 
Polychromatic Bubble 
Spider Song 
5TH LEVEL
Feast of Flesh
Hero of Fable 
Leiloch’s Interminable Yarn 
Lost and Wandering 
7TH LEVEL
Charnel Banquet
Leiloch’s Arduous Shuffle 
8TH LEVEL
Doom of False Friends
Cleric spells
CANTRIPS (0 LEVEL)
Bright Sparks 
Drayfn’s Bane of Excellence
Flowering
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 55 ---
55
Magic in the Shadow Realm
Ranger spells
1ST LEVEL
Blade of Blood and Bone
2ND LEVEL
Drayfn’s Blunted Blade
Hibernation
Krail’s Maggot
Krail’s Rupture
3RD LEVEL
Faerie Toast 
Lost 
5TH LEVEL
Lost and Wandering 
Sorcerer spells
CANTRIPS (0 LEVEL)
Bright Sparks 
Drayfn’s Bane of Excellence
1ST LEVEL
Doom of Poor Fortune
Elf Shot 
Gloaming 
Pratfall
2ND LEVEL
Drayfn’s Blunted Blade
Krail’s Rupture
Ominous Winds 
Shadow Adaptation 
Ugly Duckling 
3RD LEVEL
Bitter Wind 
Orros Mark of Fate
Shadow Portal 
4TH LEVEL
Drayfn’s Curse of Incompetence
Fire Dance 
Knife of Fate
Lunar Transfer 
Moonlight Sending 
Polychromatic Bubble 
Portho’s Portal 
Spider Song 
5TH LEVEL
Feast of Flesh
Krail’s Rot
Radiant Beacon 
6TH LEVEL
Doom of Stacked Stones
7TH LEVEL
Charnel Banquet
Doom of Summer Years
8TH LEVEL
Child of Light and Darkness 
Doom of False Friends
Warlock spells
CANTRIPS (0 LEVEL)
Drayfn’s Bane of Excellence
Obfuscate Object 
1ST LEVEL
Blade of Blood and Bone
Gloaming 
Pratfall
2ND LEVEL
Drayfn’s Blunted Blade
Krail’s Maggot
Krail’s Rupture
Leiloch’s Irritating Kazoo 
Shadow Adaptation 
3RD LEVEL
Grim Shadows 
Shadow Portal 
4TH LEVEL
Drayfn’s Curse of Incompetence
Fire Dance 
Spider Song 
5TH LEVEL
Feast of Flesh
Leiloch’s Interminable Yarn 
6TH LEVEL
Grim Harvest
7TH LEVEL
Leiloch’s Arduous Shuffle 
Wizard spells
CANTRIPS (0 LEVEL)
Bright Sparks 
Drayfn’s Bane of Excellence
Drizzle 
1ST LEVEL
Doom of Poor Fortune
Elf Shot 
Emerald Goblet 
Gloaming 
Pratfall
2ND LEVEL
Conjure Ferryman
Drayfn’s Blunted Blade
Krail’s Rupture
Ominous Winds 
Shadow Adaptation 
Ugly Duckling 
3RD LEVEL
Bitter Wind 
Grim Shadows 
Orros Mark of Fate
Shadow Portal 
4TH LEVEL
Drayfn’s Curse of Incompetence
Fire Dance 
Knife of Fate
Lunar Transfer 
Moonlight Sending 
Polychromatic Bubble 
Portho’s Portal 
Spider Song 
Storm Door 
5TH LEVEL
Feast of Flesh
Krail’s Rot
Radiant Beacon 
6TH LEVEL
Conjure Giant
Doom of Stacked Stones
Grim Harvest
7TH LEVEL
Charnel Banquet
Doom of Summer Years
Ebon Tide
8TH LEVEL
Child of Light and Darkness 
Doom of False Friends
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 56 ---
56
Book of Ebon Tides
Spell Descriptions
The spells presented below are relatively common 
in the Shadow Realm and rather less frequently 
found in the bright lands. The spells of the Schools 
of Illumination and of Shadow (see Deep Magic) are 
also widely known in the realm. Spells included in 
those traditions are marked here with either the 
illumination or shadow keywords.
Two new schools of magic are introduced as well: 
that of fey magic and of weather magic. These are, 
as the names suggest, spells that originated with fey 
spellcasters and weather mages. They are marked 
here with either the fey or weather keywords.
Bitter Wind
3rd-level evocation (weather)  
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self (120-foot line)
Components: V, S, M (a birch wood fan)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Freezing wind, forming a line 120 feet long and 20 
feet wide, blasts from you in a direction you choose 
for the spell’s duration. Each creature that starts its 
turn in the line must succeed on a Strength saving 
throw or be pushed 30 feet away from you in a 
direction following the line. Creatures that fail the 
saving throw also take 1d12 cold damage and are 
knocked prone. If cast during cold weather or in dark 
or shadowy conditions, the saving throw is made with 
disadvantage. Any creature in the line must spend 
2 feet of movement for every 1 foot it moves when 
moving closer to you.
As a bonus action on each of your turns before the 
spell ends, you can change the direction in which the 
line blasts from you.
The bitter wind disperses gas or vapor, and it 
extinguishes candles, torches, lanterns, and similar 
flames in the area.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using 
a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the saving throw is 
made with disadvantage, and the damage increases by 
1d12 for each slot level above 3rd.
Blade of Blood and Bone
1st-level necromancy 
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a dagger or short sword, which 
is not consumed in the casting)
Duration: 24 hours
When you cast this spell, you cut your body with 
the material component, your hit point maximum 
decreases by 3 and the material component 
disappears. For the duration, you can use a bonus 
action to draw a blade made of your own bone, blood, 
and sinew from your body. The blade is a magical 
weapon, uses your spell attack bonus when you attack 
with it, and deals 1d6 slashing damage on a hit. You 
are considered proficient with the blade. As a bonus 
action, you can slide the blade back into your body 
to conceal it. When the duration ends, the incision 
in your body disappears, your hit point maximum is 
restored, and the material component reappears.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using 
a spell slot of 2nd-level or higher, the damage dealt 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 57 ---
57
Magic in the Shadow Realm
by the blade increases by 1d6 for every two slot levels 
above 2nd, and your hit point maximum decreases by 
an additional amount equal to the level of the slot used.
Bright Sparks 
Evocation cantrip (illumination)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V, M (flint and steel)
Duration: 1 round
Sparks fly from your fingers for a moment, generating 
bright blue light. This illuminates the region around 
you to a distance of 60 feet until the start of your next 
turn. Wisdom (Perception) checks have advantage to 
spot creatures hidden in shadows.
Charnel Banquet
7th-level necromancy (ritual)
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: Self (30-foot radius)
Components: V, S, M (a silk handkerchief)
Duration: 10 minutes
You transform a field of carrion into an empowering 
feast. For the duration, all creatures of your choice 
can consume the decaying flesh of any creature. If a 
creature has eaten of the carrion for the duration, it 
recovers 10d6 hit points, recovers half its expended 
Hit Dice (minimum 1), removes half its levels of 
exhaustion (minimum 1), and gains all the benefits of 
finishing a short rest.
Creatures affected by this spell must succeed on a 
Constitution saving throw at the end of the duration 
or be poisoned for 1 hour.
At Higher Levels. If this spell is cast using a 9th‑level 
slot, the affected creatures remove all levels of 
exhaustion gained and recover all expended Hit Dice 
in addition to the effects noted above.
Child of Light and Darkness
8th-level transmutation (illumination) 
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a pebble from the Shadow 
Realm that has been left in the sun)
Duration: 1 minute
Roll a d20 at the end of each of your turns for the 
duration of the spell. On a roll of 1–10, you take the 
form of a humanoid made of pure, searing light. On a 
roll of 11–20, you take the form of a humanoid made 
of bone-chilling darkness. In both forms, you have 
immunity to bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing 
damage from nonmagical attacks, and a creature that 
attacks you has disadvantage on the attack roll. You 
gain additional benefits while in either form.
In Light Form. You shed bright light in a 60-foot 
radius and dim light for an additional 60 feet, you are 
immune to fire damage, and you have resistance to 
radiant damage. Once per turn as a bonus action, you 
can teleport to a space you can see within the light 
you shed.
In Darkness Form. You are immune to cold 
damage, and you have resistance to necrotic damage. 
Once per turn as a bonus action, you can target up to 
three Large or smaller creatures within 30 feet of you. 
Each target must succeed on a Strength saving throw 
or be pulled or pushed (your choice) up to 20 feet 
straight toward or away from you.
Conjure Ferryman
2nd-level conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components: V, S, M (a couple of copper coins)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
When standing on a riverbank or on the shore of 
some other body of water, you summon a ferry spirit 
and its boat, which appears in an unoccupied space 
that you can see within range. The spirit disappears 
when it drops to 0 hit points or when the spell ends. 
The spirit is friendly to you and your companions for 
the duration. Roll initiative for the creature, which 
has its own turns. It takes you and up to 1 companion 
per your level across the river or body of water (no 
action required by you) or to other locations along the 
same water. If you don’t issue any such commands, 
it defends itself from hostile creatures but otherwise 
takes no actions. 
If your concentration is broken, the ferry and its 
guide don’t disappear. Instead, you lose control 
of the conjured spirit, it becomes hostile toward 
you and your companions, and it might attack. An 
uncontrolled ferryman can’t be dismissed by you, and 
it disappears 1 hour after you summoned it. 
The GM has the ferry spirit’s statistics (using those 
for lesser lunar devil, see Chapter 9, or bearded 
devil). 
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a 
spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the boat can take you 
and your companions across a planar boundary into 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 58 ---
58
Book of Ebon Tides
the Ethereal Plane and then exit on another body 
of water (and using a barbed devil). When you cast 
this spell using a spell slot of 5th level or higher, it 
can traverse the River Styx between planes, taking 
you and your companions to distant parts of the 
multiverse (and using a lunar devil, see Tome of Beasts, 
or bone devil).
Conjure Giant
6th-level conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
You summon a giant of challenge rating 7 or lower, 
which appears in an unoccupied space that you can 
see within range. The giant disappears when they 
drop to 0 hit points or when the spell ends. The 
giant is friendly to you and your companions for the 
duration. Roll initiative for the giant, which has their 
own turns. They obey any verbal commands that you 
issue to them (no action required by you) as long as 
the commands don’t violate their alignment. If you 
don’t issue any commands to the giant, they defend 
themself from hostile creatures but otherwise take 
no actions. If your concentration is broken, the giant 
doesn’t disappear, but instead, you lose control of 
them: the giant becomes hostile toward you and your 
companions and might attack. An uncontrolled giant 
can’t be dismissed by you, and they disappear 1 hour 
after summoned. 
The GM has the giant’s statistics.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a 
spell slot of 7th level or higher, the challenge rating 
increases by 1 for each slot level above 6th.
Deep Roots of the Moon
3rd-level evocation (ritual)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 10 miles per caster
Components: V, M (a set of moonstones worth 
at least 50 gp per mile of enchanted road for a 
road entirely within the Shadow Realm or a set of 
opals worth at least 500 gp per mile for a road that 
stretches into another plane)
Duration: Permanent
You bind shadow material into an enchanted fey 
road, fixing its path between two points so as to hold 
against ordinary weather and mundane alteration 
and to stretch and bend in shadow tides. This is called 
a shadow road, and it is subject to normal wear, to 
destruction by those with the tools to break it, and 
to magical destruction by hostile forces, such as by 
dispel magic. 
If you wish, the spell may include a prayer or 
offering that serves as a keyword. This secret of the 
road allows anyone who knows and uses it to add 
one or two effects to the road, such as faster travel 
on the road (up to double the overland speed usually 
permitted) or locking and unlocking the road’s 
portals outside of the Shadow Realm. Those who do 
not know the prayer, ritual, or offering cannot enter 
the road from outside of the Shadow Realm.
Doom of False Friends
8th-level enchantment 
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a pink rose petal)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You sever the bonds of friendship and affection 
between your targets. Target two creatures of your 
choice within range that can hear and see you. Each 
target must make a Charisma saving throw. On 
a failed save, a target must use its movement and 
action to move toward and attack the other target of 
the spell. If an unaffected target of the spell moves 
out of range, the other target must make every effort 
to find and attack it. At the end of each turn that one 
of the targets cannot see the other target, it can make 
a new saving throw, overcoming the compulsion on a 
successful save. 
Fey Commanding Giants 
While most spellcasters prefer to conjure giants and 
control them using traditional formulations, the fey are 
able to conjure giants of 1 CR higher than the spell would 
normally allow, though this requires payment, discussion, 
or palaver beyond the norm for the spell in order to 
bring the giant into the fey’s service. This discussion 
requires a full round, at the end of which the giant makes 
a Wisdom saving throw. If the giant succeeds, the caster 
has lost control of the giant as if their concentration was 
broken. If the giant fails, they serve the caster for the 
duration and must be given some token of appreciation.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 59 ---
59
Magic in the Shadow Realm
Once all the spell’s targets make successful saving 
throws, you become stunned until the end of your 
next turn.
At Higher Levels. If you cast this spell using a 9th 
level slot, you can target two additional creatures. 
Each of the targets can decide on its turn which of the 
other targets it attacks or otherwise works against for 
the moment.
Doom of Poor Fortune
1st-level necromancy 
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a dead clover)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You turn luck against a creature of your choice within 
range. When the target makes an ability check, they 
must first make a Charisma saving throw or the check 
fails. This spell persists once cast, even if the target 
moves out of range. If cast with a higher-level slot, each 
subsequent effect is added to the effect noted above.
If the target ultimately succeeds on the check (or 
saving throw or attack at higher levels), then you take 1 
psychic damage. If you ever lose concentration on the 
spell, you take 1d4 psychic damage. 
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using 
a spell slot of 2nd-level or higher, when the target 
is required to make a saving throw, it must make a 
Charisma saving throw in place of the required one, 
unless the required one is more difficult to make. 
When you cast this spell with a 4th-level slot, when the 
target makes an attack roll, it must make a Charisma 
saving throw prior to making the attack. On a failed 
save, the attack fails. If you cast this spell with an 8th-
level slot, this spell persists for the duration without 
requiring concentration.
Doom of Stacked Stones
6th-level transmutation 
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a granite pebble)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You and three creatures of your choice within range 
must succeed on a Constitution saving throw when 
the spell is cast and again at the start of each of your 
turns while the spell is in effect. A creature whose 
saving throw fails is restrained. If one of the three 
targeted creatures fails this saving throw, as many as 
two other creatures (per initial target), each within 
30 feet of the initial target, must make the same save. 
A restrained creature must continue to make saving 
throws each turn, and their condition worsens on a 
failure, as follows: 
Number of 
Turns Affected
Condition
1 (spell is cast)
Restrained
2
Incapacitated
3
Stunned
4
Paralyzed
5
Petrified (turned to stone)
Each condition afflicted adds to the previous 
conditions. New saving throws reduce the severity 
of the condition affecting a target by one step on a 
success. If a target other than you succeeds on the 
saving throw while it is restrained, the spell ends for 
it. (You must make a saving throw each round.)
As with all concentration spells, you can end the 
spell at any time (no action required). If you are 
turned to stone, the spell ends after all affected 
creatures make their saving throws. Creatures 
recover immediately when the spell ends, except for 
creatures turned to stone, which remain that way 
until the effect is removed.
Creatures turned to stone can see, hear, and smell 
normally, but they don’t need to eat or breathe. If 
shatter is cast on a stone creature, it must succeed on 
a Constitution saving throw against the caster’s spell 
save DC or be killed.
Creatures transformed into stone can be restored 
with dispel magic, greater restoration, or comparable 
magic.
Doom of Summer Years
7th-level transmutation 
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a pinch of sand from an 
hourglass)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You rapidly reduce the age of your target. Choose 
a living creature within range. At the time the spell 
is cast and again at the start of each of your turns, 
your target must make a Constitution saving throw, 
decreasing 1d4 + 1 years in age on a successful save 
or 1 year on a failed one. A target ceases the de-aging 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 60 ---
60
Book of Ebon Tides
process once it is reduced to infancy. A creature that 
is reduced in age retains all of its memories, ability 
scores, and features, but it gains 1 level of exhaustion 
for each 5 years it is reduced in age. A Medium 
creature reduced to childhood cannot use weapons 
with the heavy property. A Medium creature reduced 
to infancy cannot wield weapons or use tools. If the 
spell ends before 1 minute has passed, the target 
reverts to its true age. Otherwise, the targets is 
permanently reduced to its new age. Remove curse and 
greater restoration can be used to return a creature to 
its true age.
If you ever unintentionally lose concentration on 
the spell, you gain levels in exhaustion equal to what 
the target gained from this spell.
Drayfn’s Bane of Excellence
Necromancy cantrip 
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
A creature of your choice within range must make 
a Charisma saving throw. On a failed save, the next 
ability check, attack roll, or saving throw the target 
makes, within the duration, that results in a roll of 
20 on a d20, fails to have any effect. The number of 
times this cantrip can turn a natural 20 into a failure 
increases by one when you reach 5th level (two natural 
20s), 11th level (three natural 20s), and 17th level 
(four natural 20s).
Drayfn’s Blunted Blade
2nd-level transmutation 
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a rusty shard of iron)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Your target’s weapon rapidly corrodes. A creature 
of your choice within range that is holding a 
manufactured, nonmagical weapon in one of its hands 
must succeed on a Strength saving throw. On a failed 
save, the target must roll all weapon damage dice 
twice and take the lower result. If the spell ends before 
1 minute has passed, the target’s weapon returns to 
its normal state. Otherwise, the weapon breaks down 
into a pile of rust or wood chips, as appropriate.
Drayfn’s Curse of Incompetence
4th-level necromancy 
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a teardrop)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Your target momentarily forgets its technical abilities. 
Select a creature within range that has an Intelligence 
of 3 or higher. Your target must make an Intelligence 
saving throw or be unable to add its proficiency bonus 
to any ability checks, attack rolls, or saving throws it 
makes. An affected creature can make a new saving 
throw at the end of each of its turns, regaining its 
proficiency bonus on a success.
At Higher Levels. If you cast this spell using 
a 5th‑level slot, the duration increases to 
concentration, up to 10 minutes. If you cast it using a 
6th-level slot, the duration increases to concentration 
up to 1 hour. If you cast it using a 7th-level slot, the 
duration is 1 hour.  
Drizzle
Conjuration cantrip (weather) 
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 20 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration
You conjure up a very light rain, enough to dampen 
the ground in a 20-foot square but not enough to 
drink or to put out a fire of any size larger than a 
candle or match. If sustained for 1 minute, the ground 
is wet to the touch, and if sustained for 10 minutes, 
the affected area is slightly muddy or slippery, though 
not enough to impede movement. In freezing 
weather, this may generate a coating of thin ice.
Ebon Tide
7th-level evocation 
Range: 500 feet
Casting Time: 1 action 
Components: V, S, M (a bottle of shadows)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 
You generate a wave of shadow matter at a point on 
the ground that you can see within range. For the 
duration, black winds and currents of shadow matter 
whip in a 100-foot-radius circle centered on that 
point, modifying terrain and sometimes drowning 
creatures in the area. The area becomes difficult 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 61 ---
61
Magic in the Shadow Realm
terrain. Each creature touching the ground must 
make a Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, 
the creature gains a level of exhaustion. When you 
cast this spell and at the end of each turn you spend 
concentrating on it, each creature on the ground in the 
area must make a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed 
save, the creature is knocked prone. 
The ebon tide deals 30 bludgeoning damage to 
any structure in contact with the ground in the area 
when you cast the spell and at the start of each of 
your turns until the spell ends. If a structure drops 
to 0 hit points, it sinks into the earth, consumed by 
the Shadow Realm. Any creature within a structure 
when it sinks must make a Constitution saving throw. 
On a failed save, the creature takes 2d12 necrotic 
damage, is knocked prone, and is blinded for 1 round. 
On a successful save, the creature takes half as much 
damage and doesn’t fall prone or become blinded.
This spell can have additional effects depending on 
the terrain in the area, as determined by the GM. No 
more than two of the following effects can be the result 
of one casting of ebon tide.
Hills and Hollows. Ground rises or sinks 
throughout the spell’s area at the start of your next 
turn after you cast the spell. These changes take the 
form of a hill, a slip fault (a new cliff), or a hollow. A 
total of 1d4 such hills, slip faults, or hollows open in 
locations chosen by the GM. A hollow or slip fault that 
opens beneath a structure causes it to automatically 
collapse (see above). A hollow or hill can alter the flow 
of local water, such as a moat, stream, or lake.
Rivers, Shores, and Waters. Water in the area can 
adopt an old course (such as an oxbow) or be swept 
into a new one, starting at the start of your next turn 
after you cast this spell. Only one such water element 
can be altered by the casting of this spell. (You cannot 
alter both a lake and a stream feeding it, for instance.)
Shadow Mire. All ground in the area of the spell 
becomes shadow mire (see Chapter 5) for the duration.
Elf Shot 
1st-level enchantment (fey)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, M (a pixie arrow)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You pretend to shoot an arrow with a tiny bow. Make 
a ranged spell attack against a creature within range. 
On a hit, the target creature stumbles (is pushed) 5 feet 
in a random direction (roll a d8 and assign a direction 
to each die face), and its speed is 0 until the end of 
its next turn. Until the spell ends, you can make the 
attack again on each of your turns as an action.
Emerald Goblet
1st-level abjuration (fey)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a powdered acorn, which the 
spell consumes, and a drinking vessel)
Duration: 24 hours
You touch a drinking vessel and sprinkle acorn dust 
into it, which creates a shining green vessel filled with a 
green potion. Any creature that drinks from the goblet 
is protected against shadow corruption for 1 day.
The protection grants several additional benefits: 
you gain advantage to checks used to gather food 
within the Shadow Realm, and you gain darkvision to 
30 feet (or extend your existing darkvision by 30 feet).
Faerie Toast
3rd-level transmutation (fey, ritual) 
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (wine worth 100 gp, which the 
spell consumes, and a cup for each participant)
Duration: 8 hours
You and up to five other creatures make a toast and 
drink to the lords and ladies of the fey courts. When 
you cast the spell, choose one of the following toasts, 
the targets of which must be within 10 feet of you 
throughout the casting.
Commiseration. Spellcasting participants can form 
or join a hag coven. While in the coven, each of the 
participants can share spell slots among themselves. 
Spells known by one member of the coven are known 
by all members of the coven for the duration and can 
be cast using any of the shared spell slots. 
Friendship. Each of the participants in the toast 
becomes fey for the duration, in place of their original 
type, and their status increases by 2d6 while they are 
in the Shadow Realm or the Bright Lands. 
Husbandry. For the duration, each of the 
participants can communicate with beasts as though 
they shared a language (though they gain no magical 
ability to influence them).
Nightmares. For the duration, the first time 
a creature comes within 30 feet of one of the 
participants, they must make a Wisdom saving throw 
or be frightened of all the participants for 1 minute.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 62 ---
62
Book of Ebon Tides
Playfulness. Each participant grows gossamer 
wings, and for 10 rounds within the duration, 
they gain a fly speed equal to their walking speed. 
A participant that is not standing on a horizontal 
surface at the end of their turn falls to the ground.
Restfulness. Each of the participants gains 
advantage on saving throws against being charmed 
and can’t be put to sleep by a spell or other magical 
effect for the duration. 
Feast of Flesh
5th-level transmutation 
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, M (an animal tooth and a drop of 
your blood)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
A creature of your choice within range is overcome 
with a need to consume the flesh of its own kind. 
The target must make a Charisma saving throw. 
On a failed save, its teeth become needlelike, and 
it becomes able to pinpoint creatures of the same 
type as it within 150 feet by scent. On its turn, the 
creature must move toward the nearest creature of 
its type by the fastest means possible. If it is within 
5 feet of a creature of its type it must use its bonus 
action to make a bite attack against it. Your target 
has proficiency with its bite attack and deals damage 
equal to 1d6 + its Strength modifier. If a creature of 
its type is not present within 150 feet of the target, it 
must attack the closest living creature to it.
At the end of each of its turns and each time it takes 
damage, the target can make a new saving throw. 
The target has advantage on its saving throw if it is 
triggered by damage. On a success, the spell ends, and 
the target is poisoned for 1 hour, unless it is a cannibal 
or comes from a cannibalistic culture.
Fire Dance 
4th-level illusion (elemental)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components: S, M (a burning mass of rags, a pair of 
torches, or similar fire in both hands)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
You dance and twirl two sources of fire in a rapid 
pattern that leaves glowing trails. Creatures of your 
choice in the area that see your fire dance must 
make a Wisdom saving throw. Any creature that 
can't be charmed succeeds on this saving throw 
automatically, and if you or your companions are 
fighting a creature, it has advantage on the save. 
On a failed save, a target becomes charmed for the 
duration. While charmed by this spell, the creature is 
incapacitated and has a speed of 0.
The spell ends for an affected creature if it takes 
any damage or if someone else uses an action to 
shake the creature out of its stupor. The spell ends if 
you are incapacitated.
Fireflies
1st-level evocation (fey)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 hour
You summon a large volume of fireflies to illuminate 
a 15-foot-radius sphere for the duration. A few of the 
fireflies will settle on hidden or invisible creatures, 
making them somewhat easier to find. Attack rolls 
against invisible creatures in the area are no longer 
made with disadvantage, though attack rolls made by 
invisible creatures are still made with advantage, for 
only their general position is clearer by firefly light, 
not their specific movements. All Hide actions taken 
in the area are made with disadvantage.
Flowering
Transmutation cantrip 
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 20 feet
Components: V
Duration: Concentration
You call forth fragrant flowers from an inanimate 
object. If the object is held by an unwilling creature, 
that creature can make a Dexterity saving throw 
to negate the effect. If sustained for 1 minute, the 
flowers give forth a pleasing scent and may attract 
bees, hummingbirds, or other pollinators.
Gloaming 
1st-level evocation (shadow)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, M (a piece of smoked glass)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Magical gloom spreads from a point you choose 
within range to fill a 50-foot-radius sphere for 
the duration. The fading twilight spreads around 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 63 ---
63
Magic in the Shadow Realm
corners. A creature with darkvision can see through 
this darkness, and any normal light can illuminate 
it. Ranged attacks made through the gloaming have 
disadvantage. If the point you choose is an object 
being worn or carried, the effect emanates from the 
object and moves with it. Completely covering the 
source of the gloaming with an opaque object, such as 
a bowl or a helm, blocks the darkness.
If any of this spell’s area overlaps with an area of 
light created by a spell of 2nd level or higher, the 
effect is dispelled.
Grim Harvest
6th-level necromancy 
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Self (30-foot radius)
Components: V, S, M (a pinch of gray sand and a 
bone chip)
Duration: Instantaneous
You reap the life force of a dying creature and use it 
to empower the next spell you cast. Your target must 
be at 0 hit points and dying or must have died within 
the last round. If the target is dying, it must succeed 
on a Constitution saving throw or die. The next time 
you cast a spell, you gain 1d10 + your spellcasting 
ability modifier in temporary hit points and can 
choose one of the following effects to inflict on the 
target in addition to the usual effects of the spell you 
are casting. If you do not cast another spell within 1 
minute of casting this one, the effect is lost.
Clumsiness. Your target’s speed is halved for 1 
minute, and it has disadvantage on Dexterity ability 
checks and saving throws. At the end of each of its 
turns, it can make a Constitution saving throw. If it 
succeeds, the effect ends.
Fatiguing. Your target must make a Constitution 
saving throw, gaining 1d4 levels of exhaustion on a 
failed save or 1 level of exhaustion on a successful one.
Vampiric. You recover a number of hit points equal 
to half the damage you dealt. If you dealt damage to 
multiple creatures, you recover half the amount of 
damage you dealt to one of the targets.
Weakness. The target deals the minimum possible 
damage on melee attacks, if it hits, for 1 minute. At 
the end of each of its turns, it can make a Constitution 
saving throw. If it succeeds, the effect ends.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 64 ---
64
Book of Ebon Tides
Withering. You deal an extra 4 dice of damage of 
the same type as the damage dice of the spell and all 
damage dealt by your spell becomes necrotic damage.
Grim Shadows 
3rd-level conjuration (shadow)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Sharp, spear-like shadows fill a 15-foot square 
of ground that you can see within range. For the 
duration, these shadows obscure creatures within the 
area, giving them half cover.
When a creature enters the affected area for the first 
time on a turn or starts its turn there, the creature 
must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or take 1d8 
piercing damage and be blinded until the spell ends. 
A creature that starts its turn in the area and is already 
blinded takes 1d8 piercing damage.
A creature blinded by grim shadows can use its action 
to make a Dexterity or Wisdom saving throw (its 
choice) against your spell save DC. On a success, its 
sight returns.
Hero of Fable
5th-level enchantment (fey)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, M (a crown of laurel leaves)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You make a creature capable of great deeds, like a 
storybook champion, and at the same time empower 
that creature’s foes to become worthy of a hero’s 
attention. A creature of your choice within range 
gains advantage on all ability checks, attack rolls, 
and saving throws for the duration. At the same 
time, creatures that attack your target, or that make 
a saving throw against a spell or effect originating 
from your target, have advantage on their roll. If your 
target is unwilling, it must succeed on a Charisma 
saving throw to avoid the effects.
At Higher Levels. You can target one additional 
creature for every slot level above 6th if you cast this 
spell using a 7th level or higher spell slot. 
Hibernation
2nd-level necromancy
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, M (a tuft of bear fur)
Duration: 1 hour (see description)
You hum a soothing melody and discard a bit of 
bear fur, which induces a soporific healing state 
in the next creature you touch. The target regains 
1d6 hp and sleeps for 10 minutes per each hit point 
regained. If the creature is unwilling, it must succeed 
on a Constitution saving throw or fall asleep for the 
duration. At the end of each of its turns, the target 
can make another Constitution saving throw. On a 
success, the spell ends on the target.
Each creature affected by this spell falls 
unconscious until the spell ends, the hibernating 
creature takes damage, or someone uses an action to 
shake or slap the hibernating creature awake. Undead 
and creatures immune to being charmed aren’t 
affected by this spell.
At Higher Levels. If cast using 3rd-level or higher 
spell slot, you may touch one willing creature per level 
to induce hibernation.
Knife of Fate
4th-level necromancy 
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a silver knife)
Duration: Until dispelled
You speak a word of binding fate and point your 
dagger. A creature you can see within 60 feet of you 
must make a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, 
the target’s fate is bound to one random ally of the 
target. Any damage or condition the target suffers 
is instead inflicted on the individual to whom they 
are bound, and vice versa. A creature can be bound 
to only one other creature at a time. This effect lasts 
until either of the affected creatures gains a level or are 
targeted by a heal spell or partake of a heroes’ feast spell, 
lifting the binding. 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 65 ---
65
Magic in the Shadow Realm
Krail’s Maggot
2nd-level necromancy 
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: S, M (a live maggot)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
A 6-inch-long maggot forms inside a creature of 
your choice within range and begins to devour the 
target from within. Make a melee spell attack against 
your target while in range. On a hit, the target takes 
necrotic damage from the maggot equal to 1d8 + your 
spellcasting ability modifier. As a bonus action on each 
of your subsequent turns, you can repeat the attack 
against your target. 
As an action on its turn, your target can make 
a melee weapon attack against the maggot with a 
weapon that deals piercing or slashing damage. The 
maggot has AC equal to your spell save DC and 8 hit 
points per spell slot level used to create it. If your 
target hits the maggot, half of the damage is dealt to 
the maggot, and the other half is dealt to the target 
itself. If the maggot is killed, the spell ends.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a 
spell slot of 3rd-level or higher, the damage increases 
by 1d8 for each slot level above 2nd. 
Krail’s Rot
5th-level necromancy 
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: S, M (a drop of blood, a piece of flesh, 
and a pinch of bone dust)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You target a creature of your choice within range with 
a wasting of the flesh. Your target must succeed on a 
Constitution saving throw or take 3d8 necrotic damage 
at the beginning of each of its turns for the duration. A 
target reduced to 0 hit points while under the effects of 
this spell has disadvantage on its death saving throws. 
If your target dies, you can raise it as a zombie 
as a bonus action on your turn and can use a bonus 
action on each of your subsequent turns to mentally 
command it as long as you are within 60 feet of it. If 
you command multiple undead as a result of multiple 
castings of this spell or similar spells like animate 
dead, you can command any or all of them at the same 
time using the same bonus action, issuing the same 
command to each one. You decide what action the 
creature will take and where it will move during its 
next turn, or you can issue a general command, such as 
to guard a particular chamber or corridor. If you issue 
no commands, the creature only defends itself against 
hostile creatures. Once given an order, the creature 
continues to follow it until its task is complete.
The creature is under your control for 24 hours, 
after which it stops obeying any command you've given 
it. To maintain control of the creature for another 
24 hours, you must expend a spell slot of 5th level or 
higher before the current 24-hour period ends.
At Higher Levels. If you cast this spell using a 
7th‑level spell slot, your target takes 6d8 necrotic 
damage at the beginning of each of its turns and 
animates as a ghoul if it dies. If you cast it using a 
9th-level spell slot, it takes 9d8 necrotic damage and 
animates as a ghast if it dies.
Krail’s Rupture
2nd-level necromancy 
Casting Time: 1 reaction, which you take in response 
to being grappled or swallowed whole
Range: Touch
Components: S
Duration: Instantaneous
You make a slicing motion with your finger, and 
you immediately break the grapple of the creature 
grappling you by magically entering their body and 
exiting them on the opposite side. The creature 
must make a Constitution saving throw, taking 3d12 
necrotic damage on a failed save or half as much 
damage on a successful one.
If cast in response to being swallowed, you exit the 
triggering creature’s body, regardless of how much 
damage you deal to it, and fall prone in a space within 
10 feet of the triggering creature.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a 
spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the damage increases 
by 1d12 for each slot level above 2nd.
Leiloch’s Arduous Shuffle
7th-level enchantment (fey)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self (20-foot radius)
Components: V, M (a gray ribbon)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
All creatures in a 20-foot-radius sphere centered 
on you that have fewer hit points than you when 
you cast the spell are compelled to dance a swaying, 
side-to-side shuffle-step. Any creature that can’t be 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 66 ---
66
Book of Ebon Tides
charmed is immune to the effects of this spell. An 
affected creature has its movement halved, cannot 
use reactions, and can make only one weapon or 
spell attack on its turn. At the beginning of its turn, 
a creature in the area can choose to take 1d4 levels of 
exhaustion to end the effect of this spell on itself.
A creature that has gained levels of exhaustion 
from this spell can remove all of them upon finishing 
a short rest.
Leiloch’s Interminable Yarn
5th-level enchantment (fey)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self (20-foot radius)
Components: V, M (a scroll, containing a prepared 
speech)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You tell a meandering story that is so full of asides 
and digressions that the point of it is lost on listeners. 
Any creature that is deafened or can’t be charmed is 
immune to the effects of this spell. Creatures of your 
choice in a 20-foot-radius sphere centered on you are 
compelled to stop what they are doing and listen to 
your story. While they are enraptured by your words, 
they automatically fail Intelligence (Investigation) 
and Wisdom (Insight and Perception) checks, and 
their passive scores in those skills are considered to 
be 0 for the duration. A creature can choose to pull 
away from your performance but must succeed on 
a Wisdom saving throw or fall unconscious for 1 
minute. This spell ends if you are incapacitated or can 
no longer speak.
Leiloch’s Irritating Kazoo
2nd-level enchantment (fey)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self 
Components: V, M (a wooden kazoo)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You play a long, droning note on a kazoo. All 
creatures within 10 feet of you and that can hear you 
must make a Constitution saving throw. On a failure, 
a creature takes 1d6 thunder damage at the beginning 
of each of your turns and cannot cast spells with 
verbal components for the duration. On a success, a 
creature takes 1d6 thunder damage and cannot cast 
spells with verbal components until the end of its 
next turn. A creature that fails the initial saving throw 
can make a new saving throw at the end of each of its 
turns to end the effect.
Lost 
3rd-level enchantment (fey)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 hour
You attempt to confuse and confound a creature’s 
sense of direction. The target must make a Wisdom 
saving throw, and if the saving throw fails, the 
spell removes all memory of particular locations, 
landmarks, and routes for the duration of the spell, 
even well-known ones such as locations within a city, 
a home forest, and well-known hills and roads. 
A remove curse or greater restoration spell ends this 
effect.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using 
a spell slot of 4th level or higher, you can target one 
additional creature for each slot level above 3rd. The 
creatures must be within 30 feet of each other when 
you target them. If you use a spell slot of 5th level or 
higher, the duration is 8 hours. If you use a spell slot of 
7th level or higher, the duration is 24 hours. If you use 
a 9th-level spell slot, the spell lasts until it is dispelled. 
Lost and Wandering
5th-level enchantment (fey)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: 24 hours
As the lost spell (see above), and in addition to 
forgetting all navigation skills and landmarks, the 
target is compelled to wander off at a walk (attacking 
only in self-defense). After 16 hours, the target can 
make another Wisdom saving throw. On a failure, the 
creature falls into an exhausted long rest. 
A remove curse or greater restoration spell ends this 
effect.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using 
a spell slot of 6th level or higher, you can target one 
additional creature for each slot level above 5th. The 
creatures must be within 30 feet of each other when 
you target them. If you use a spell slot of 7th level or 
higher, a target experiences the spell for a second day, 
making a Wisdom saving throw after they wake up 
to continue wandering. If you use a spell slot of 9th 
level or higher, a target experiences this spell every 
day for a week. 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 67 ---
67
Magic in the Shadow Realm
Lunar Transfer
4th-level Conjuration (fey) 
Casting Time: 1 minute 
Range: 200 feet
Components: V, S, M (an opal worth 500 gp, which 
the spell consumes)
Duration: Instantaneous 
This spell instantly summons a glittering moonbeam 
that transports one sleeping creature or object of your 
choice that you can see within range to a destination 
you select. If you target an unwilling creature, it gains 
a Wisdom saving throw. On a successful save, the 
spell fails, and the caster appears in the target location 
instead. A transferred creature wakes up as soon as 
it arrives at its destination. If you target an object, it 
must be able to fit entirely inside a 10-foot cube, and it 
can’t be held or carried by an unwilling creature. The 
destination you choose must be known to you, and it 
must be on the same plane of existence as you. Your 
familiarity with the destination determines whether 
the creature or object arrives there successfully. 
The GM rolls d20 and consults the Lunar Transfer 
table below. The following definitions will help: 
•	 Grove or Magic Circle means a hallowed druid 
grove or a permanent teleportation circle whose 
sigil sequence you know. 
•	 Memento means that you possess an object taken 
from the desired destination within the last six 
months, such as a book from a wizard’s library, 
bed linen from a royal suite, or a chunk of marble 
from a lich’s secret tomb. 
•	 Very Familiar is a place you have been very often, 
a place you have carefully studied, or a place you 
can see when you cast the spell. 
•	 Seen Casually is someplace you have seen more 
than once but with which you aren’t very familiar. 
•	 Viewed Once is a place you have seen once, 
possibly using magic. 
•	 Description is a place whose location and 
appearance you know through someone else’s 
description, perhaps from a map. 
•	 False Destination is a place that doesn’t exist. 
Perhaps you tried to scry an enemy’s sanctum but 
instead viewed an illusion, or perhaps you are 
attempting to teleport to a familiar location that 
no longer exists.
On Target. The target creature or object appears 
where you want it to.
Off Target. The target creature or object appears 
a random distance away from the destination in a 
random direction. Distance off target is 5 miles times 
a 1d20 roll, though never more than half the distance 
traveled. For example, if you sent someone 250 miles 
and they landed off target, and you rolled an 8 on the 
d20, then they would arrive off target by 40 miles. If 
you had sent them only 20 miles, they could not be 
more than 10 miles off target. The GM determines 
the direction off target randomly by rolling a d8 and 
designating 1 as north, 2 as northeast, 3 as east, and 
so on around the points of the compass. If you were 
teleporting someone to a coastal city and they wound 
up 20 miles out at sea, they could be in trouble.
Similar. Your target creature or object winds up in 
a different area that’s visually or thematically similar 
to the target area. If you are sending someone to your 
home laboratory, for example, they might wind up 
in another wizard’s laboratory or in an alchemical 
supply shop that has many of the same tools and 
implements as your laboratory. Generally, the 
creature or object appears in the closest similar place, 
but since the spell has no range limit, they could 
conceivably wind up anywhere on the plane.
Designer’s Note: Lunar Transfer
This is, of course, a much less powerful and much more 
fey-flavored version of teleport. It permits only a single 
creature to be moved by magic rather than eight plus 
the caster, it cannot be used on oneself, and it requires a 
sleeping target. Generally, it is perfect for trickery such as 
moving a sleeping creature out of a castle and into the 
woods, and failure against an unwilling creature may leave 
the caster in the place the target was meant to wind up. 
Overall, it is much less powerful with no use in combat but 
lots of uses in longer narrative scenes and in removing 
rivals from a court or place of power overnight.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 68 ---
68
Book of Ebon Tides
Mishap. The spell’s unpredictable magic results in 
a difficult journey. The teleporting creature or object 
takes 2d12 force damage, and the GM rerolls on the 
table to see where you wind up. (Multiple mishaps 
can occur, dealing damage each time.)
Moonlight Sending
4th-level conjuration (fey) 
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (an offering of gemstones, 
incense, and oils worth at least 400 gp, which the 
spell consumes, set afire in an alabaster bowl)
Duration: Instantaneous 
You exhort a fiend to attack a distant foe. After the 
offering is made, make a spell attack roll to determine 
which fiend is summoned: 
d20 
Result 
CR 
1–4 
Sending fails 
—
5–8 
Wind demon (see Creature 
Codex) or quasit 
1–2 
9–12 
Rattok demon (see Creature 
Codex) or bearded devil 
3–4 
13–16 
Lesser lunar devil (see 
Chapter 9) or vrock 
4–6 
17–20 
Lunar devil (see Tome of Beasts) 
or hezrou 
8 
21+ 
Alnaar (see Creature Codex) or 
horned devil
9–11 
Once summoned, you must compel the fiend to 
seek out a particular creature you choose that is on 
the same plane of existence as you by making a DC 
10 Charisma (Persuasion) check. On a success, the 
fiend slinks off to its target, usually but not always by 
LUNAR TRANSFER
d20
Grove or 
Circle
Memento
Very 
Familiar
Seen 
Casually 
Viewed 
Once
Description 
False 
Destination
1
Similar
Mishap
Mishap
Mishap
Mishap
Mishap
Mishap
2–5
Off target 
Similar
Similar
Similar
Mishap
Mishap
Mishap
6–9
On target
Off target
Off target
Similar
Similar
Similar
Mishap
10–13
On target
On target 
Off target
Off target
Off target
Similar
Similar
14–17
On target 
On target 
On target 
On target 
On target
Off target 
Similar
18–19
On target
On target
On target
On target
On target
On target
Similar
20
On target
On target 
On target 
On target 
On target 
On target
Similar
night. On a failure, the fiend refuses, and the offering 
and the bowl are consumed in the casting.
The conjured fiend may find that the target is 
warded or inaccessible or simply difficult to find 
(whether because of invisibility or some other reason). 
In this case, you must make a DC 15 Charisma 
(Persuasion) check. On a success, the fiend returns 
and demands no further offering, reports its failure, 
and vanishes. On a failure, the fiend returns and 
demands another offering. If this is not immediately 
forthcoming, it attacks you.
Obfuscate Object
Illusion cantrip (shadow)
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: 10 feet
Components: S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
While you are in dim light, you cause an object in 
range to become unobtrusively obscured from the 
sight of other creatures. For the duration, you have 
advantage on Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) checks 
to hide the object. The object can’t be larger than a 
shortsword, and it must be on your person, held in 
your hand, or otherwise unattended. 
You can affect two objects when you reach 5th level, 
three objects at 11th level, and four objects at 17th level.
Ominous Winds 
2nd-level enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a cracked bone)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Up to three creatures of your choice that you can see 
within range must make Charisma saving throws. 
Whenever a target that fails this saving throw makes 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 69 ---
69
Magic in the Shadow Realm
an attack roll or a saving throw before the spell ends, 
the target must roll a d12 and subtract the number 
rolled from the attack roll or saving throw.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using 
a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, you can target one 
additional creature for each slot level above 2nd.
Orros Mark of Fate
3rd-level necromancy 
Casting Time: 1 reaction, which you take in response 
to failing a saving throw
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a small iron shield)
Duration: Instantaneous
If you fail a saving throw, you may choose to succeed 
instead and then target a creature you can see within 
30 feet to suffer the effects of your failed saving throw. 
You still suffer any effects of a successful saving throw, 
if any. The new target is entitled to its own saving 
throw as if it were the original target of the attack but 
with disadvantage. 
Polychromatic Bubble
4th-level conjuration (fey)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components: V, S, M (a chip of soap and a drop of oil)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You create a shimmering, multicolored bubble around 
a Large or smaller creature or an object within range. 
The bubble is a 5-foot-radius sphere that has 10 hit 
points and an AC equal to your spell save DC. The 
bubble rises 10 feet into the air along with its contents, 
up to 30 feet, at the beginning of each of your turns. 
A creature trapped inside the bubble at the beginning 
of its turn cannot see or hear anything outside the 
bubble and must make a Wisdom saving throw or be 
charmed by you and the bubble until the start of its 
next turn. A creature outside the bubble that targets it 
with an attack must make a Wisdom saving throw or 
be charmed by you and the bubble until the beginning 
of its next turn.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using 
a spell slot of 5th level or higher, you can create one 
additional bubble for each slot level above 4th.
Portho’s Portal
4th-level conjuration (liminal)
Casting Time: 1 hour
Range: 10 feet
Components: V, S, M (a silver latch or key worth 100 
gp, which the spell consumes)
Duration: 24 hours
You conjure a portal or doorway that links an 
unoccupied space you can see within range to a 
precise location in the mortal or fey realms—such 
as Midgard, the Shadow Realm, or the Summer 
Lands—that you have stood. The portal is a semi-
circular opening, which you can make 5 to 20 feet in 
diameter—it is often cast under a bridge, archway, 
or even under roots or branches of a large tree. You 
can orient the portal in any direction you choose. It 
has a front and a back on each plane where it appears. 
Travel through the portal is possible only by moving 
through its front. Anything that does so is instantly 
transported to the other plane, appearing in the 
unoccupied space nearest to the portal. The portal 
lasts for the duration.
Deities and other planar rulers can prevent portals 
created by this spell from opening in their presence or 
anywhere within their domains.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 70 ---
70
Book of Ebon Tides
At Higher Levels. If cast using a 5th-level or higher 
spell slot, you may make the portal last for 1 week after 
you create it. If cast using a 6th-level or higher spell 
slot, the shadow doorway is permanent until dispelled 
with a radiant beacon (see below) or wish spell.
Pratfall
1st-level conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
You cause a small bit of bad luck to befall a creature, 
making it look humorously foolish. You create one of 
the following effects:
•	 A small, oily puddle appears under the feet of your 
target, causing it to lose balance. The target must 
succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or be unable 
to use bonus actions on its next turn as it regains 
its footing.
•	 Tiny particles blow in your target’s face, causing 
it to sneeze. The target must succeed on a 
Constitution saving throw or have disadvantage 
on its first attack roll on its next turn.
•	 Strobing lights flash briefly before your target’s 
eyes, causing difficulties with its vision. The target 
must succeed on a Constitution saving throw, or 
its passive Perception is halved until the end of its 
next turn.
•	 The target feels the sensation of a quick, mild clap 
against its ears, briefly disorienting it. The target 
must succeed on a Constitution saving throw to 
maintain its concentration.
•	 An invisible force sharply tugs on the target’s 
trousers, causing their clothing to slip. The target 
must make a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed 
save, the target has disadvantage on its next attack 
roll with a two-handed weapon or loses its shield 
bonus to its AC until the end of its next turn as it 
uses one hand to gather itself.
Only one of these effects can be used on a single 
creature at a time.
Radiant Beacon 
5th-level evocation (illumination)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self (5-foot radius)
Components: V, S, M (a piece of amber)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
A pillar of light falls from the air, filling the square you 
are in and the area within 5 feet of you. Each other 
creature in the area must make a Constitution saving 
throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 4d8 radiant 
damage and is blinded until the start of your next turn. 
On a successful save, it takes half as much damage 
and isn’t blinded by this spell. Undead and oozes have 
disadvantage on this saving throw.
For the duration, a pillar of brilliant radiance shines 
around you and moves with you. It sheds bright light 
in a 10-foot radius and dim light for an additional 20 
feet. The light is sunlight.
This spell’s light can be seen from a distance of up to 
10 miles outdoors at night or 5 miles during twilight.
Shadow Adaptation
2nd-level abjuration (shadow)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a scrap of black cloth)
Duration: 8 hours
Your flesh and clothing pale and become faded as your 
body takes on a tiny fragment of the Shadow Realm. 
For the duration of this spell, you are immune to 
shadow corruption and have resistance to necrotic 
damage. In addition, you have advantage on saving 
throws against effects that reduce your Strength score 
or hit point maximum, such as a shadow’s Strength 
Drain or the harm spell. 
Shadow Portal
3rd-level conjuration (liminal, shadow)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 200 feet
Components: V, M (a silver door latch worth 50 gp, 
which the spell consumes)
Duration: 1 minute
You create a door in the nearest wall, cliff, tree, or 
similar structure. It is immediately bound to a similar 
door up to 200 feet away. The near door must be a 
place within 10 feet that you can see while the distant 
door can be one that you can visualize or that you can 
describe by stating distance and direction, such as 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 71 ---
71
Magic in the Shadow Realm
100 feet straight down or 50 feet to the northwest and 
upward at a 45-degree angle.
Once the door is conjured, you can take actions 
normally to open and pass through the near portal, 
which immediately teleports you to the distant 
portal. Other creatures may do the same while the 
spell remains. The spell ends after the duration or 
when someone closes the distant portal’s door as a 
bonus action.
At Higher Levels. If cast at 5th level, this spell can 
open the door to a shadow road. This may require 
additional somatic or material components specific 
to that road, and lacking those, the spell fails and is 
wasted. 
Spider Song
4th-level conjuration (shadow)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, M (a leg from a song spider or a tiny 
lute strung with spider silk)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You sing a piping tune and conjure shadows into 
enormous, ever-growing webs. The area within a 
20-foot cube within range is filled with shadows, and 
the area is lightly obscured and provides half cover 
to any creature within. You may create a new cube of 
shadows in range every other round so long as you 
retain concentration, in which case the previous cube 
disappears 1 round later. Cubes can overlap but there 
is no cumulative effect from it.
Each creature that enters the area or starts its turn 
in the area must make a Dexterity saving throw. On 
a failed save, the creature is incapacitated for as long 
as it remains in the shadows or until it breaks free. 
A creature incapacitated by the shadows can make a 
Strength check each round against your spell save DC. 
If it succeeds, it is no longer incapacitated.
The shadows can be removed from a single 20-foot 
cube with a daylight spell.
Storm Door
4th-level conjuration (liminal, weather)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a fulgurite)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
Crackling with lightning, you teleport up to 120 
feet to an unoccupied space that you can see. Each 
creature within 5 feet of both the space you left and 
your new space must make a Dexterity saving throw. 
A creature takes 1d12 lightning damage on a failed 
save or half as much damage on a successful one.
On each of your turns for the duration, you can use 
your bonus action to call up the lightning and open 
such a storm door again, targeting a different space 
with the door each time. If you are outdoors when 
you cast this spell, a storm develops within 1 minute 
and follows you. Under such conditions, the spell’s 
damage increases to 2d12, and you can teleport up to 
240 feet.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using 
a spell slot of 5th level or higher, a creature of your 
choice within 5 feet of you can teleport through the 
storm door with you. Accompanying creatures do not 
suffer the lightning damage.
Ugly Duckling
2nd-level enchantment (fey)
Casting Time: 1 action 
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a shard of mirror)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
One creature of your choice within range must make 
a Charisma saving throw. On a failed save, the target 
has disadvantage on all Charisma checks it makes 
and anyone it speaks to is indifferent to them for the 
duration. If the target succeeds on a Charisma check 
while under the effect of this spell, it can make a new 
saving throw to overcome the effect.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using 
a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, you can affect one 
additional target for each slot level used above 2nd.
Designer’s Note: Storm Door
This spell is obviously inspired by effects more 
commonly seen such as call lightning and misty step, 
but it reduces its damage while strengthening the 
misty step element with a bit more range. Though it 
is not as effective at raw damage, it has a great many 
possibilities for battlefield movement. And it makes for 
a great escape mechanism for villainous spellcasters.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 72 ---
72
Book of Ebon Tides
The foremost questions from many travelers to the 
Shadow Realm have to do with its shadow matter, 
its malleable nature, and how humans and other 
intelligent species survive in such a strange place. To 
natives, these questions are foolish, for the laws of 
nature may be different than they are on other planes 
or in the mortal realm, but the Shadow Realm is 
hospitable to those who take time to learn its ways. 
This chapter provides that foundation.
While it is known for its occasionally warped, 
echoed locations with parallels in the mortal world, 
the Shadow Realm also harbors twisted plants, 
animals, monsters, conditions of travel, and even 
strange laws of nature worth closer inspection. Turn 
your gaze to the mutable lands of shadow, and pray 
you have a keen eye to see what marvels they contain.
Moons, Stars, and Sky
The Shadow Realm has no full day and night cycle, 
and instead, a perpetual twilight cloaks the realm. This 
dim, ambient illumination deepens into full darkness 
in the valleys and canyons that crisscross the land. 
And it isn’t sunlight, so creatures that suffer in the 
sun, including vampires, endure it without difficulty. 
The primary sources of light are the two moons of 
the Shadow Realm, Celene and Lindar, which most 
inhabitants of the realm know as the feminine and 
masculine faces of Hecate, or sometimes as Hecate 
and Kupkoresh or Lada. The two moons provide 
enough light for the realm’s rather pale, thin crops 
and trees to grow, and both have linked phases. When 
Celene is full, so is Lindar, and when Lindar is new, 
so is Celene.
The stars are a handful of jewels, often cloaked in 
clouds, but when visible, they are just like the stars of 
the mortal world: chips of pure brilliance, red, blue, 
and diamond white. The constellations familiar to 
umbral peoples are the Dragon, the North Arrow, 
The Nature of Shadow
The Nature of Shadow
5
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 73 ---
73
The Nature of Shadow
the Leaping Salmon, the Swan, the Hunter, and the 
Greater and Lesser Fox. 
The sky in the Shadow Realm is often cloudy or 
misty, but when open from horizon to horizon, it is 
a richer palette than most: black and gray of course 
but with overtones of mauve, violet, and deep blue, 
velvety deep tones, sometimes even vivid orange and 
rich burgundy hues by the full moon. Its clouds are 
commonly gray or white and uncommonly silver or 
blue—perhaps even luminous.
Animals and Encounters
The plants and wildlife in the Shadow Realm survive 
as one would expect given the surrounding terrain. 
Trees and undergrowth fill the dark forests. Birds 
fly above and nest among twisted branches. Herd 
animals wander the plains. Fish swim through the 
black rivers and murky lakes. Most are entirely 
normal in their size and behavior.
Some creatures native to the Shadow Realm 
are a dark reflection of their counterparts in the 
mortal world, such as dark-furred squirrels and 
twilight‑purple deer with black antlers. Some 
are clearly warped and tainted. The owl-like but 
human‑mouthed stryx ghost-glides on silent wings 
through dark forests. Shadow fey nobles capture and 
tend flocks of steel-winged eala, and the corrupted, 
unicorn-like shadhavar wander the woods and race 
across the plains. White wolves, black bears, and 
even crimson-feathered hawks are common, thriving 
on a seemingly ready supply of pale field mice, 
the aforementioned black squirrels, and similarly 
shadow-hued prey. 
Far more than the odd creatures still familiar from 
fields and rivers though, monsters are abundant 
within the Shadow Realm. The gloomflower (see 
Creature Codex), glass gator (see Tome of Beasts), and 
unhatched (see Creature Codex) are all well-known 
threats, as are light dragons (see Creature Codex) and 
black dragons, lantern dragonettes (see Tome of 
Beasts), and overshadows (see Tome of Beasts 2). (For 
Shadow Realm encounter tables, see Appendix.)
Food and Water
Finding fresh water often presents a pressing 
challenge in the Shadow Realm since darkness flows 
through some waterways instead of water. This inky 
substance quenches the thirst of the denizens of 
the plane (including all those detailed in Chapter 
2), but visitors from the bright lands find it bitter 
and unpleasant. That said, this inky liquid can be 
consumed and provides refreshment, but it also 
carries the taint of shadow corruption (see below). 
A few springs produce pure water, and sometimes 
a stream runs clear for a time before darkness fills 
it again. These precious resources are vital to those 
that haven’t given themselves over to the plane’s 
corruption, and they guard them viciously. 
As for food, fruit-bearing plants yield their bounty 
(though their produce appears black and glossy), and 
animals can be hunted for meat. Whether fruit or 
meat, food gathered in the Shadow Realm tastes bland 
to visitors and often hints at something unpleasant, 
such as rot or mold. Ability checks made to forage 
for food and water by visitors to the realm are at 
disadvantage, yielding half the normal amount of 
edible food or potable water (though natives suffer no 
penalty). Brave or desperate characters can choose to 
forage as normal (without disadvantage and for a full 
yield), but any creature who consumes food gathered 
in this way suffers exposure to shadow corruption. 
DARK WATER 
The black shadows that often pass for water in the 
Shadow Realm run swift and cold—so cold that no 
matter the surrounding terrain or climate, every 
stream and river and lake counts as frigid water. 
Worse, the spirits of things that died in or near the 
water constitute a separate hazard. A creature that 
starts its turn in dark water must succeed on a DC 
Ancient Animals Still Thrive
Fauna such as mammoths, enormous elks, ground 
sloths, sabretooth tigers, and cave bears still thrive in 
the Shadow Realm. It seems that the dreams of the 
bearfolk keep them nearby as they are most common in 
the Moonlit Groves with occasional visits to dark forests 
and open grasslands where the sable elves and shadow 
fey certainly know how to hunt them. 
Many of these are referred to as “elders,” such as 
elder elk or elder mammoth. They are considered 
especially worthy prey and are sometimes protected by 
will-o’-wisps, witchlights, or other unusual guardians. 
Goblin tribes occasionally bring one to a court or to 
Fandeval as a curiosity and showpiece.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 74 ---
74
Book of Ebon Tides
12 Strength saving throw or be grappled and pulled 
5 feet deeper into the water by the hungry spirits. 
The grappled condition lasts until the start of the 
creature’s next turn. These ghosts long to drag every 
living thing they encounter into the inky depths, and 
even watercraft provide uncertain protection against 
these spirits. 
A creature that drowns in dark water can’t be 
returned to life by revivify or raise dead. More powerful 
magic, such as resurrection, is necessary to free the 
creature’s soul.
A few creatures of the Shadow Realm are naturally 
immune to the effects of dark water, including shadow 
goblins, shadow fey, river giants, and most fiends.
Variant: Shadow-Touched Beasts 
Beasts in the Shadow Realm reflect the plane’s unique 
nature. Ordinary beasts have darkvision out to 60 
feet and are resistant to cold damage. At the GM’s 
discretion, these traits fade away a week after the beast 
leaves the plane.
Methods for  
Entering Shadow
Natives to the Shadow Realm need no help arriving, 
but the region is also popular with creatures from 
elven lands, from mortal worlds, and from the various 
hells and heavens, seeking souls lost in the Styx or for 
powerful magical weapons to recharge with the arcane 
forces of the realm.
The five principal methods for entering the realm are 
nodes, the Planar River, radiant wells, shadow roads, 
and spells. Each of these is further described below.
Nodes and Portals. Many visitors from outside 
the Shadow Realm enter via a magical gate, portal, 
or node of some kind. On their home plane, these 
locations appear as doors, gateways, arches, standing 
stones, or arcane circles, which must be activated by a 
magical item, seasonal arcane sacrifice, ritual magic, 
or similar charging energy. Once activated, they 
remain open for a short period, allowing multiple 
creatures to enter at the same time.
Planar River Styx. Travelers can and do float into 
the Shadow Realm from the hells, from the roots of 
Yggdrasil, or from other locations where the River 
Styx is known to flow. Charun’s boatmen, various 
yugoloths, and even angelic guides have been known 
to point out the way to safe places to dock or beach.
Radiant Wells. Connected to the celestial planes, 
these glowing beacons provide a great deal of light, 
but the ability to use them to enter the Shadow Realm 
is limited primarily to angels, celestials, and good-
aligned creatures generally. The fey, undead, and 
others consider them a hazard (see also Hazards of 
the Shadow Realm below).
Spells. Both plane shift and gate spells can bring a 
party of adventurers to the Shadow Realm. Some 
The Nature of Shadow / from the Book of Ebon Tides
While many wise souls pretend to know exactly what shadow 
matter is and how it is best distilled, shifted, changed, and locked 
into new forms, the truth is that the primal matter of the Shadow 
Realm is complex, often chaotic, and different from the simple 
elements of other realms, such as fire, water, earth, and air. 
It is malleable in the extreme, making it more susceptible to 
shaping by the untrained.
Primal shadow can be manipulated by a conjuror, illusionist, 
or druid—and sometimes, by the mere belief held by a prince or a 
fey child. In most cases, these changes give life to an object that is normally 
lifeless, such as a stone or a doll, purely through belief, and these changes last long 
enough for a birch tree to smile and bow, a cherry tree to blossom, a doll to wink, or a 
boulder to stroll down the lane.
In a few cases, animation and form can be provided that last longer and have greater effects, 
but in almost all cases, these require a practitioner of the magical arts. 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 75 ---
75
The Nature of Shadow
scrolls are created, especially by powerful fey or 
ghoulish spellcasters, to bring new and entertaining 
visitors to the realm, and these are referred to as 
shadow portal scrolls (see Chapter 10).
Shadow Roads. The most common way to enter 
the Shadow Realm is on the roads that connect the 
worlds. These shadow roads are obscured and difficult 
to open—for humans and other non-fey. For the 
shadow fey, elves, gnomes, and others, opening the 
shadow roads is much easier. Using them requires 
making a trip of several days to get from the Shadow 
Realm to the mortal lands or vice versa. More detail 
on these roads is found later in this chapter. 
Hazards of  
the Shadow Realm
While most of the realm is ordinary earth and forests, 
several elements of the Shadow Realm are unique 
to it—or at least far more common than elsewhere. 
These hazards and landmarks are described below.
Doomsand. Similar in most ways to standard 
quicksand, doomsand follows the same rules for 
sinking and escaping. This ashen-gray slurry is infused 
with the nature of shadow, and it drains the resolve 
from those in its grasp. A creature that starts its turn 
in doomsand must succeed on a DC 12 Wisdom 
saving throw or become despondent (see Shadow 
Corruption below). When the creature finishes a long 
rest, it can repeat the saving throw, ending the effect 
on a success. Doomsand usually appears in marshes 
and swamps, or in deserts as fine dust. 
Ebon Tides. Ebon tides are enormous waves 
of shadow mire, of crackling shadow matter—a 
temporary wave of arcane power pulsing through 
a region and unmaking the land. When they affect 
a region, use the effects of the ebon tide spell (see 
Chapter 4).
Hungry Gloom. Some areas of the Shadow Realm—
or places in the mortal world where the barrier to the 
Shadow Realm is thin—develop hungry gloom. An 
area of hungry gloom appears particularly dark and 
grim, swallowing light. An area of light that overlaps 
hungry gloom has its illumination reduced by one 
step (bright light becomes dim, dim light becomes 
darkness). Darkvision can’t improve the ambient 
light conditions in the area. Shadow-touched 
creatures (see Shadow Corruption below) can see in 
hungry gloom as if it were bright light. 
Leaden Clouds. These dark, heavy clouds oppress 
the spirit of those beneath them, serving as a sort 
of psychic weight. Creatures under a leaden cloud 
of sorrow must succeed on a DC 12 Wisdom or 
Charisma saving throw to make an attack, cast a 
spell, or move at more than a standard walking pace 
(though they can still defend themselves normally). 
Certain items, such as emerald goblets (see Chapter 
10), and spells, such as aid, calm emotions, enthrall, and 
lesser restoration, and even a barbarian’s Rage ability 
negate the effects of leaden clouds.
Radiant Wells. This form of well resembles a 
beacon of light at the surface, though it swallows up 
anything thrown into it. A radiant well is a planar link 
to one of the celestial planes, and it sheds searing, 
bright daylight in a 60-foot radius around itself 
and up into the clouds. This makes them excellent 
landmarks for navigation, though their position can 
be shifted by ebon tides and terrain manipulation. 
Any creature entering a radiant well falls for 1 
round and then is ejected upward at relatively high 
speed from another well within 2d20 miles (for evil 
creatures, this increases to 1d100 miles). The force of 
being ejected from the well propels a Small or smaller 
creature up about 30 feet before falling to the ground 
beside the well (potentially taking normal falling 
damage). Medium and Large creatures are pushed 
up about 15 feet, and Huge or larger creatures simply 
land at the edge of the well.
Particularly large or active radiant wells sometimes 
inflict radiant damage on evil-aligned creatures. These 
more active wells are sometimes used as nodes or 
portals to celestial planes by fey wizards and clerics.
Shadow Mire. Usually found along the shores 
of ponds, lakes, and streams, shadow mire is a 
concentration of pure shadow matter that has eaten 
away the soil, roots, and plants of a place and replaced 
them with a thin layer of viscous purple-black gloop. 
This resembles dark water and is indistinguishable 
from water at night—leaves and reeds may float on 
it, and it reflects moonlight normally. However, 
stepping into shadow mire generates an immediate, 
oversized wave that radiates from the creature 
entering the mire, knocking down all in its path. Any 
creatures within 30 feet, which are smaller than the 
creature stepping into the mire, must succeed on a 
DC 13 Strength (Athletics) or Dexterity (Acrobatics) 
saving throw or be knocked prone by the wave.
The creature in the center of the mire will be 
covered by the shadow mire as it rolls back to its point 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 76 ---
76
Book of Ebon Tides
of origin, like the splash of an enormous raindrop. 
The creature must make a DC 13 Constitution saving 
throw or be knocked prone and unconscious.
Some wizards can distill or conjure pits of 
shadow mire (see spells in Chapter 4 and magic 
items in Chapter 10) and thus reshape a riverbed or 
undermine a bridge, for instance. 
Witchlights and Will-o’-Wisps. The Shadow Realm 
is filled with lesser lights than that of the moons and 
stars, wandering along with typically inscrutable aims. 
A white glow shines in the distance, offering a path or 
a sign of habitation—or simply zipping through the 
deep woods. These are the tiny witchlights (see Tome 
of Beasts) and the larger will-o’-wisps, both of which 
create their own light. The witchlights are tiny shards 
of crystal, constructed creatures believed to have been 
made as friends, servants, and companions to the 
Ancients of shadow. Only relatively powerful wizards 
know how to make them, but many roam the Shadow 
Realm on their own. 
Witchlights pursue their own purposes: guarding 
dangerous sites, helping travelers, seeking out 
old runestones, or gathering at certain seasons to 
dance and blink in unison. Others tag along with 
strangers for hours, perhaps driven by curiosity. Their 
appearance is well known, but their goals are often 
quite obscure. Some are friendly while others guide 
travelers astray, and a few of them serve as familiars 
to wizards and sorcerers among the shadow fey and 
shadow goblins.
Will-o’-wisps, their larger cousins, are generally 
malign and capable of more damage in combat. They 
lead travelers into doomsand or shadow mire and even 
use their attacks to sever boat lines or rope bridges.
Shadow Corruption
The Shadow Realm threads its tendrils into those 
places and creatures it can reach, tainting those that 
strike bargains with dark powers, linger too long 
in places infused with shadow, or even simply eat 
the wrong food in the Shadow Realm. This applies 
primarily to visitors, as the realm’s inhabitants are 
wary and used to its dangers, though sometimes they 
also fall prey to them.
Creatures corrupted by shadow grow distracted 
and withdrawn, shunning light in all its forms. At 
the most severe levels, the corrupted creature gives 
itself wholly to the Shadow Realm. Constructs, 
fiends, shadow fey, shadow goblins, and undead 
aren’t susceptible to shadow corruption. Constructs 
(other than gearforged or similar construct-like 
creatures) lack souls, and darkness of another sort 
already claims the essential nature of fiends and 
undead. Shadow fey and shadow goblins have lived 
in the realm for so long, their nature has already been 
changed by it.
Shadow corruption is measured in six levels. An 
effect can give a creature one or more levels of shadow 
corruption, as specified in the effect’s description 
detailed in the following table. 
TABLE 5–1: SHADOW CORRUPTION
Level Effect
1 
You have disadvantage on Wisdom 
and Charisma checks made against 
non‑shadow creatures.
2 
You gain darkvision out to 30 feet or 
increases existing darkvision by 30 feet. 
3 
You have disadvantage on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks and attack rolls made 
while in bright light. 
4 
You have disadvantage on saving throws 
made while in bright light.
5 
You take 2d6 radiant damage when starting 
your turn in sunlight. 
6 
You become a shadow thrall (see condition 
below). 
If a corrupted creature suffers another effect 
that causes shadow corruption, its current level of 
shadow corruption increases by the amount specified 
in the effect’s description. A creature suffers the 
effect of its current level of shadow corruption as well 
as all lower levels. 
An effect that removes shadow corruption reduces 
its level, as specified in the effect’s description, with 
all shadow corruption effects ending if all levels of a 
creature’s shadow corruption level are removed. 
For each week spent in the Shadow Realm, a 
susceptible creature must make a DC 10 Charisma 
saving throw. On a failure, the creature gains one 
level of shadow corruption. On a success, the creature 
resists corruption for the time being, but the DC of 
future saves made for this reason increase by 1. The 
DC returns to 10 when the creature gains one or 
more levels of shadow corruption or when it spends 
at least 1 week outside the Shadow Realm. 
Shadow magic is dangerous for mortal creatures to 
wield since it carries the risk of shadow corruption. 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 77 ---
77
The Nature of Shadow
Whenever any humanoid that isn’t an umbral human, 
bearfolk, darakhul, shadow fey, or shadow goblin 
casts any shadow magic spell, then the next time it 
finishes a long rest, it must make a Charisma saving 
throw with a DC of 10 + the highest level of shadow 
magic spell cast. On a failure, the creature gains one 
level of shadow corruption. Gnomes, elfmarked, and 
elves make the saving throw with advantage. 
Shadow corruption can be removed in three ways:
•	 A corrupted creature that spends 1 week per 
current level of shadow corruption outside 
the Shadow Realm reduces its level of shadow 
corruption by one. If the creature casts or is 
affected by a shadow magic spell during this time, 
the recovery time starts over. 
•	 A dispel evil and good spell cast on a creature 
reduces its shadow corruption level by one. 
•	 An emerald goblet can remove one level of shadow 
corruption each time it is used.
SHADOW-TOUCHED
A creature that is native to the Shadow Realm or that 
possesses at least one level of shadow corruption is 
considered shadow-touched. 
New Condition: Despondent
A despondent creature gains the following flaw: “I 
find it difficult to see how anything could turn out 
well no matter how hard I try. Why even bother?” In 
addition, they are directly affected as follows:
•	 The creature has disadvantage on ability checks.
•	 The creature has advantage on saving throws 
against being charmed and disadvantage on all 
other saving throws.
•	 The calm emotions spell suppresses the despondent 
condition for its duration. Lesser restoration or 
more powerful magic ends the condition.
New Condition: Shadow Thrall
A shadow thrall is considered a denizen of the 
Shadow Realm and won’t willingly leave: 
•	 If forced to leave the Shadow Realm, the creature 
becomes despondent (see condition above) until 
it returns.
•	 The thrall’s form becomes mottled with shifting 
patches of inky blackness. It automatically fails all 
Wisdom (Insight) and Charisma checks (except 
for Intimidation checks) against a non-shadow 
creature.
•	 The thrall is considered charmed by any fey or 
shadow fey native to the Shadow Realm who has 
an Intelligence or Charisma score higher than 14. 
This charmed effect can't be removed as long as 
the creature is a shadow thrall. However, a remove 
curse or lesser restoration spell suppresses the effect 
for 24 hours.
Traveling on Shadow Roads
The network of shadow roads grows, withers, and 
changes over the years. However, the experience of 
traveling on them is usually similar, no matter who 
their maker might be. (For more on making shadow 
roads, see Chapter 1.) These roads are built by 
magic, protected by the fey, bearfolk, and other road 
wardens, and provide swifter, more reliable travel 
than venturing over open land. In the Shadow Realm, 
open grasslands, forests, and any other natural 
terrain is subject to change and warpage, so the use of 
roads provides one of the few certain ways of getting 
from point A to point B. Though while more certain, 
they are still perilous, and travel comes with a number 
of possible dangers.
SHADOW ROAD WARDENS
The various roads through the Shadow Realm are 
often quick and easy, especially when the owners of 
the lands nearby do not cast any charms or hexes to 
slow a visitor’s progress or to hinder enemies. But 
at other times, bandits, enchantments, and natural 
or supernatural obstacles prevent swift passage, 
and when these interfere with the regular travel of 
wagons, pilgrims, merchants, or noble processions 
through the realm, the road wardens are dispatched 
from the nearest court or city to clear things up. 
The major chapterhouses of the road wardens 
stand in the Courts of Mice and Ravens and the 
Court of Roses as well as in Corremel, Dalliance, 
Fandeval, and Merrymead. The shades and gnomes 
do not provide road wardens near Soriglass or along 
the more distant reaches of the western woods, but 
the darakhul legions perform a similar function 
within the rifts in the name of the emperor. 
Shadow road wardens are often veterans of courtly 
life who have been given the task after they tire of 
the daily rituals, gatherings, and petty slights of fey 
status-seeking. These are often quite deadly warriors, 
enchanters, or rogues, known and feared by bandits, 
satarre, vampires, and void cultists for their skill at 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 78 ---
78
Book of Ebon Tides
sniffing out bandits, road-cutters, and various other 
plotters against the Old Roads.
Road wardens are notorious tale-spinners but 
also delightful in the depth of their understanding of 
shadow roads, tides, and matters arcane. 
TABLE 5–2: SIX FAMOUS ROAD WARDENS
d6
Result
1
Ambrosus Fairhand, a sable elf general who tired of life in the Court of Golden Oaks, leads a detachment 
of sable elves and erina along the northern banks of the Styx. He is known for chopping off the hands 
of bandits, road-cutters, and other miscreants found on the roads—always pronouncing it, “Sentence 
performed in the name of Queen Valda.”
2
Hillar Vandegast, a shadow fey archmage who travels on a nightmare as a steed and who keeps a 
small company of young shadow fey squires and apprentices. He guards the eastern Queen’s Wood and 
transforms criminals into toads, sparrows, and sometimes weasels.
3
Gillyan the Sailor, a shadow goblin once of Fandeval, saw something in the Sable Sea and vowed never to 
sail again. Known for using radiant magic against his foes, it’s said he once won and lost a crown of infinite 
midnight (see Chapter 10) in a card game.
4
Kei Greenleaf, a gnomish druid, serves the bearfolk and protects the trails and paths of the north. Said to 
work with erina and alseid, though these are rarely visible when Kei questions a traveler.
5
Toress Bonespitter, a darakhul captain assigned to service outside the great ghoul rift, enjoys human and 
fey company but despises the bearfolk. Her crew of darakhul and human rangers protect the rather new 
ghoulish roads around the rim of the rift.
6
Garwen the Pure, a bearfolk paladin who travels as a humble but relentless defender of light and justice, 
is a road warden who lets nothing slide. Smugglers, necromancers, thieves, and simple gamblers may all be 
required to pay a toll—or may be carried off bodily to the court of justice at Merrymead.
Highway Robbery  
in the Shadow Realm
The frequent visitors to the Shadow Realm make it 
almost irresistible to attempt highway robbery. A group 
of enormous bearfolk, a horrifying company of darakhul 
soldiers, or a heavily armed shadow fey stepping out 
of the shadows around a single traveler or even a small 
group will often demand a toll or to “deliver up a parcel 
to the road gods.” While most travelers from the bright 
lands are willing and able to pay a small fee, sometimes 
the highway robbers get much more than they 
bargained for. In these cases, they often scatter among 
the difficult terrain on either side of the road (forest, tall 
plains grasses, scrublands, or hills). Most non-native 
travelers are reluctant to leave the road, and bandits 
take advantage of this.
TRAVEL TIMES ON THE SHADOW ROADS 
Traveling the hundreds of miles along a shadow road 
is fairly swift but not instantaneous, and the better-
kept and better-warded roads of the shadow fey, 
bearfolk, and elves (though in some mild disrepair) 
are far swifter than roads elsewhere. 
For instance, it takes 1d3 days to pass from any 
major city with fey or gnomish influence in the 
mortal world to the major elven or fey courts in the 
Shadow Realm. Travel from regions without elves, 
fey, or gnomes often takes a bit longer, on the order 
of 1d6 days, and the known and functional roads are 
fewer and less well kept. Travel along a shadow road 
in a region of little or no magic, such as wastelands, 
mage-blasted deserts, or the like, can take 1d12 days. 
For enormous distances, such as across seas and 
oceans or across continents, travel time can be up to 
2d12 days along a shadow road—still much shorter 
than the months or years such trips normally take.
For creatures from the Shadow Realm, the roads 
are common enough. For creatures from elsewhere, 
make an Intelligence (Arcana) check at a −5 penalty 
for non-elves and consult the following table to 
determine what (if anything) they know about them.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 79 ---
79
The Nature of Shadow
TABLE 5–3: SHADOW ROAD LORE 
DC 
Result 
1–5 
It is not known how the shadow roads work. 
6–10 
Shadow roads connect two points through 
magical travel. A spell or passphrase is often 
required to open one. Elves, shadow fey, and 
similar peoples seem to have an easier time 
on them than anyone else. 
11–15 
The start and end of a shadow road are set 
in advance, and the doors to them are never 
open long. 
16–20 
The destination of a shadow road can be 
changed but only by fey. Otherwise, new 
destinations require obscure incantations or 
arcane tinkering. 
21+ 
Some shadow roads are guarded, and others 
lead in only one direction.
SIGHTS AND ENCOUNTERS  
ON SHADOW ROADS 
Those from outside the Shadow Realm who travel 
along the shadow roads for adventure find the plane’s 
roads can be an overgrown chaos of hedge mazes, 
twisting passages, hollows, and delves—each road 
may vary, but all are notorious for lacking wide vistas 
or straight paths. Travelers may leave the path and 
wander at will, but once they attempt to go home, 
it takes them 1d3 days to find their way. Many have 
never returned since those who step off the paths 
sacrifice any protection offered by the fey that built 
the road or by warding stones and waymarks placed 
by other hands. Shadow creatures, fiends, and 
celestials all use these roads for purposes of their own 
and dislike competition. 
In game terms, the shadow roads are filled with 
dangerous encounters. More powerful adventurers 
will attract more powerful creatures. Fey and undead 
are common as well as beasts of the night, marauding 
giants, and various other shadow creatures. 
Additionally, the shadow fey guard some roads with 
their black stone keeps, from which they send their 
minions forth to prey on the unwary—or at least, 
to collect tolls in the form of memory philters (see 
Chapter 10), scrolls, or silver. 
Travelers using these arcane highways do so at their 
own risk. (See Appendix for suitable encounters.)
Navigating the Black River
The Lord of the Rivers is Charun the Boatman, and 
his followers are those who most often travel it, 
safely and swiftly, just as the followers of the shadow 
fey pass most swiftly through their forests and the 
darakhul most quickly through their dark canyons. 
While the rivers seem in many respects similar to 
TABLE 5–4: NAVIGATING THE STYX
d12
Result
1
Boat lands exactly where it embarked in the morning.
2
Ghosts plague the boat all day, annoying passengers with shouts and noxious mists and obscuring sight.
3
Some coins or minor possessions (such as rope, amulet, or favorite socks) go missing.
4
A member of the party gains a level of shadow corruption (see Shadow Corruption above).
5
A familiar or companion animal takes ill and must be carried off the boat.
6
A member of the party becomes partly transparent, their bones now visible.
7
The ferry slides into another plane of the GM’s choosing, such as one of the hells, the celestial planes, or 
a mortal land.
8
Everyone aboard the boat is drained by travel and gains a level of exhaustion.
9
The life-draining power of the river inflicts 2d12 necrotic damage to each passenger each hour.
10
The boat enters dark water (see Dark Water above), and a water elemental attacks.
11
The boat travels without effort, guided by unseen forces, and all its passengers gain the benefits of a long 
rest.
12
One passenger has a vision of the afterlife and may have a premonition of danger, learn a secret from a 
ghost, or gain 2d12 temporary hit points from understanding the power of the river.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 80 ---
80
Book of Ebon Tides
other times, one river melds into another. This is 
especially true when one travels by shadow goblin 
barge or with the help of a conjured ferryman (see 
conjure ferryman spell in Chapter 4).
For normal heroes and travelers without access 
to a magical ferry, travel by boat is easy enough 
downstream, providing a steady rate of about 5 
miles per hour with the current—but travel is often 
confoundingly less direct than expected with strange 
tributaries flowing into the river, other boats seen in 
the perpetual mists, and various rapids, whirlpools, 
and backwater oxbows that lead nowhere. 
Encounters on the river are common, usually with 
shadow goblins, river giants, or water fey, and more 
rarely with fiends or incorporeal undead. Characters 
must make a DC 15 Intelligence (Arcana) check for 
each day of navigation. On a success, the party has 
traveled as expected, and on a roll of 20 they have 
arrived after a single day on the water. On a failure, 
they have looped or dawdled or otherwise made far 
less progress, limited to 10 miles for the day. On a roll 
of 1 or 2, roll 1d12 and consult the following table.
The Waters of the Styx
The River Styx is a planar waterway found flowing 
through many planes, and it varies in its color, 
inhabitants, and even name from realm to realm. Always 
though, it carries the souls of the dead to the afterlife 
and binds the many planes of the multiverse together. 
In the Shadow Realm, its course is rarely constant 
as the land itself shifts every few years. However, the 
creatures that make their living from it know how 
it runs and how to avoid its dangers. River giants, 
shadow goblins, and shadow river lords are all relatively 
common along its banks as are other creatures. (See 
Appendix for suitable encounters.)
rivers in mortal lands, they also loop and wander 
across the planes in ways that are difficult to predict. 
And on the twisting paths of the Shadow Realm, 
sometimes traveling downriver leads one to places 
that are surely upriver if one goes by the roads. At 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 81 ---
81
The Nature of Shadow
Lost Lands and  
Shifting Destinations
A place as malleable and prone to revision as the 
Shadow Realm inevitably finds that some places 
are cut off from the shadow roads, unmoored in 
the currents, and seen intermittently at best. The 
driftwood villages are one example, and the city of 
Oshragora another, though its movements are fairly 
steady. Others were once well known but are now 
quite difficult to find: the Radiant Isle, the Land of 
Apple Blossoms, the Keep of the Shadow Drakes, and 
the Paletree Rise out on the Whispering Plain. All are 
well-known legends to umbral humans, shadow fey, 
and others, though none are especially well fixed on a 
map. A few are briefly noted here as legendary locales 
for adventure.
KEEP OF THE SHADOW DRAKES
This set of black towers resembles a tangled grove of 
trees more than any fey architecture. It was raised by 
Nonderil, an elder shadow drake, as a gift to his mate, 
Violanda, and it became a place of draconic power as 
well as a school for mages of the traditions of shadow 
and illumination. At various times, it has been seen 
on the Whispering Plains, as an island in the Shade 
Sea, and even as a dark cloud castle floating over the 
hills. In all cases, dozens of drakes, dragonettes, and 
dragons nest there because they are the only ones 
capable of opening its gates and doorways. Rumors 
run rampant that the keep of the shadow drakes is 
filled with the bones of a thousand fey or with the 
grimoires of a hundred mages or with the wealth 
of generations of gnome and human traders. Some 
even believe that it commands a radiant well that is 
somehow harnessed to provide arcane power (just 
as one might tap a barrel of wine). A few claim that 
the whole building is inscribed in Draconic with the 
history of the Ancients, who (in this telling) were 
shape-shifting dragons.
While bones and books are found there, more 
often, the Keep of the Shadow Drakes is a nesting 
ground for drakes, protected by their elders, and the 
dragons and drakes of the Shadow Realm gather 
there until their wyrmlings hatch and then depart 
as soon as their progeny can fly, leaving the place 
to some other type of draconic flock looking for a 
perfect nesting site. Eggshells litter the courtyards, 
lending concrete evidence of this use by dragons in 
breeding season.
LAND OF APPLE BLOSSOMS
Swarming with bees and fragrant with apple 
blossoms in spring, the Land of Apple Blossoms is 
sometimes described as an island in the sea and at 
other times as a set of five hills and seven villages, 
each inhabited by fair, kind-hearted humans and 
bearfolk who settled it long ago and wisely decided 
never to connect their realm to that of the fey.
The Land of Apple Blossoms is the subject of songs 
and sagas, and many of them feature its treasures: 
golden bees and honey of immortality, apples whose 
taste reverses aging and cures the sick, even berry 
bushes hung with jewels the size of a human thumb, 
and springs that run with sweet water, pure as snow, 
that teem with bright-red salmon each autumn. 
Some of this is surely poets at work, but the existence 
of a circle of apple druids or the guidance of Halla 
Berlesfand, a great druid of wisdom and kindness, are 
themes that often recur in tales of the Land of Apple 
Blossoms. The humans there are said to grow tall and 
fair, untroubled by hunger or plague.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 82 ---
82
Book of Ebon Tides
The great druid of the Land of Apple Blossoms can 
open a magical moon portal to the city of Fandeval, 
which appears once every few years. On those 
occasions, a few of its young people take its apples, 
pears, and other fruits to market, exchanging them 
for Fandeval’s salt, spices, and other rare items. 
PALETREE RISE
This drifting village was built around a circular 
grove of oaks and a single stone, sometimes thought 
to be one of the failed stones that Hecate placed in 
the waters before the Founding. (Indeed, the legends 
say it floated well and gathered earth and plants to 
it, though it failed to root in one place.) The village 
itself is seen in a dozen places each year, drifting 
faster than most villages, and some of the faithful 
of Hecate consider it an especially propitious site, 
worth seeking out for the devout. Others believe 
that the “pale tree” that gives the village its name is a 
sign that the place is quite dangerous, unstable, and 
best avoided. Chaos cultists and the satarre claim the 
village might be a good place to unbind and unravel 
magic for this reason.
THE RADIANT ISLE
A secluded island located somewhere in the middle of 
a black lake in the south of the realm regularly draws 
dozens or even hundreds of witchlights to its shores. 
The island can be seen from the far side of the lake 
thanks to the pale glow that emanates from the place. 
Brave souls who use magic or take a boat across the 
lake find a building composed of solid light nestled in 
an otherwise desolate rocky outcropping. Low and 
sprawling, the structure has a blue central dome and 
several white marble wings, radiating from that hub. 
Witchlights flit across the lake and into the building, 
gliding through the opaque, glowing walls. 
For creatures that can’t pass through the light 
walls, a normal entrance opens into a library, but 
instead of books and scrolls, sheets of multicolored 
light are stacked atop one another in orderly fashion. 
Each sheet of light contains recorded knowledge. The 
witchlights move about the archive, a few at a time, to 
add some of their own light to what’s already there. 
In addition, brass-and-silver library automatons 
move among the stacks, scanning the library and its 
visitors. Visitors that convince the automatons to 
help can find strange lore gathered from across the 
realm, even the multiverse, stored in the archive. 
The library is said to connect to other storehouses 
of wisdom on other planes through doors limned in 
strange alphabets. 
The liosalfar—elementals composed of pure, 
colored light—are frequent visitors to the Radiant 
Isle. They have a great love of patterns and a hatred 
of any creature that seeks to disrupt the patterns of 
“color” they identify as the world around them. They 
can offer invaluable insight on locating a specific 
piece of lore, but any who threaten the archive or the 
knowledge stored within inspire their wrath.
Shadow Landmarks and Natural Anchors
While shadow fey, bearfolk, and others raise buildings, 
castles, and entire cities on the strength of foundation 
stones that preserve structures during times of flux and 
tide, other elements of the Shadow Realm also resist the 
currents and motions of ebon tides. Shadow landmarks 
and natural anchors perform the same function, and 
as elements of the plane, they do not require arcane 
power to create. Instead, these features of the land are 
notable as geographic features: white cliffs, enormous 
house‑sized boulders out on the plains, a beach of 
pure white sand, a set of purple dunes, or a particularly 
stunning mountain peak or outcropping. 
These sites are preserved over years without any help 
from arcanists or fey. Instead, the memory of the Shadow 
Realm and its inhabitants themselves maintains them. Most 
are associated with names, legends, or associated figures 
from history. The older and more visited the site, the more 
resistant it becomes to damage by black water, harsh 
radiance, or similar natural effects. Natives of the plane call 
them “natural anchors,” places too distinctive to be washed 
away or to sink silently beneath other terrain. 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 83 ---
Book of Ebon Tides
The Shadow Realm has always been most closely 
associated with the fey, who used it as a source of 
magic and magical transportation long before they 
learned to make warded foundation stones and to 
settle it. Their courts resemble those of the elves of 
Silendora, the Summer Lands, in their overall size and 
organization but with a darker cast and often with far 
more gnomes, goblins, and humans. The shadow fey 
themselves have always been relatively few in number, 
though their promises of power and their ability to 
enchant and control mortal rulers have given them the 
ability to pull entire cities into shadow.
What is a Fey Court?
A fey court is roughly similar to a human fiefdom: 
a land ruled by a noble or monarch, that ruler 
embodying its people and attracting like-minded fey 
to their court. A small court, for instance, might style 
itself the Baron’s Court of Millrun and rule over a 
handful of villages along a stream. A large court, such 
as the Court of Night and Magic, might have lesser 
courts that pay it fealty, be ruled by a queen, and 
command entire cities, forests, and small armies. 
A dozen major courts and several minor ones are 
described here. More certainly exist, and new ones 
could be founded by any fey-blooded inhabitants of 
the Shadow Realm who lay claim to existing lands and 
castles or who can master the ebon tides to make their 
own lands and castles from nothing. 
Any fey can found a court, though only the most 
powerful or charismatic seem to have success in 
growing them from a backwater named Frog Manor 
to a wildly popular Court of Emeralds. Shadow 
fey, shadow goblins, lunar elves, sable elves, wyrd 
gnomes, quicksteps, living stars, and even trollkin 
(and sometimes half-elves) have all ruled fey courts. 
Bearfolk, darakhul, halflings, alseid, ravenfolk, satarre, 
shades, and humans are sometimes members of a 
court, but they are not eligible to found or rule one. 
Rules for styling oneself a title and naming the 
court itself are arcane even by fey standards. A new 
court, for instance, might take a “properly modest” 
name such as Lilypad Manor, the Court of Cherries, 
or the Court of Three Bridges, ruled by a lord, lady, 
or keeper. In time, the court might grow and become 
the Court of Ruby Blossoms or the Court of the Silent 
River, ruled by a princess, marquess, or count. Such 
Fey Courts and Servitors
Fey Courts and Servitors 
6
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 84 ---
84
Book of Ebon Tides
names can be proposed yet fail to become accepted by 
the members of the court if a ruler judges their own 
advancement too generously. When other fey refuse 
to acknowledge the new placename, it may easily 
become a mark against an “upstart court,” and the 
court’s popularity may wither.
Corremel, the  
City of Lanterns
A bright light on a dark river, the city of Corremel 
shines like a beacon from a thousand black-iron 
lanterns. Ruled by the Black Prince of the shadow 
fey, Hander Svenk, this well-lit city is their sparkling 
stronghold and the source of their wealth and power. 
Its foundations are enormous, both in its palaces 
and in its charcoal-cobbled streets, and its watch is 
vigilant and suspicious of troublemakers. 
A busy metropolis, it is sometimes referred to as 
Corremel-in-Shadow (but usually only by those of 
the mortal realm). Corremel is situated on the banks 
of the River Lethe near two shadow roads to the 
Changelings at Court
Many fey courts have a tradition of hosting changelings, 
which they see as an honorable tradition of fostering 
the children of various non-fey races among 
themselves. (To the parents of the kidnapped children 
who become changelings, the matter is somewhat 
different.) These human children are stolen away 
as infants, taught Elvish, Umbral, and other refined 
languages, and their demeanor and personalities 
change to match that of their shadow fey, gnomish, or 
sable elvish parents. (Note that the fey do not choose 
to adopt dragonborn, dwarves, kobolds, tieflings, or 
trollkin as changelings, and they consider the various 
animal folk such as alseids, catfolk, ravenfolk, or subek 
as half-fey already. Kidnapped halflings generally 
become courtly servants.) 
Changeling player characters can use the changeling 
variant race for umbral humans (see Chapter 2), which 
provides rules governing their abilities.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 85 ---
85
Fey Courts and Servitors
Corremel’s Connections  
to Mortal Lands
Much of the wealth and power of Corremel comes from 
its twin shadow roads, which connect the city to two 
other cities of your choice. In the Midgard setting, these 
cities are Zobeck, the Crossroads City, and Corremel-in-
Nuria, a desert city along a crocodile-infested river. 
The first of these is a small city of clockwork magic, 
kobold miners, and trade near the ancient Margreve 
Forest and Ironcrag Mountains and described in Zobeck: 
Clockwork City. Any temperate trade or river town 
could stand in for Zobeck in your campaign as needed.
With the latter, the city enjoys a shadow road to 
the human City of Ale, called Corremel-in-Nuria and 
described in the Southlands Worldbook. If you are 
not using the Southlands in your campaign, any other 
sun‑filled, human city will do as the “mirror of Corremel.” 
The idea is to give the shadow fey a connection 
to places unlike the Shadow Realm and to a road for 
human foodstuffs, textiles, and other trade goods to 
arrive in the hands of the shadow fey.
mortal lands, making the City of Lanterns a distinct 
trade hub that sees people of shadow mingling with 
all varieties of mortals. This mash of cultures has left 
Corremel with a distinct amalgam in architectural 
style and in its dialect of Umbral, using more human 
loan-words.
The city’s bridge is an important passage for 
crossing from the forests and courts of the Queen’s 
Wood down to the plains, to the Saltwood, to the 
Shade Sea, and to the trading opportunities of 
Fandeval. Visitors from throughout the Shadow 
Realm come for trade goods, for particular services 
from arcanists, spies, loremasters, and assassins, and 
for the various joys and pleasures that the fey offer to 
visitors, for the right price.
PROMINENT LOCATIONS
1. Horn Gate Inn. Many mortal visitors to the 
city find this lively tavern, blaring with music and 
conversation, to be their best first stop. Located on 
the northern edge of town, this large, horn-colored 
mansion with a slate-gray roof is bedecked with 
numerous gables and turrets. The stone exterior 
sports numerous balconies with detailed balustrades 
while the inside features hand-carved trim, hardwood 
floors, a carved wooden staircase, and massive 
stained-glass windows. Each bedroom has a stone 
fireplace and small-but-comfortable bunks or a 
bed large enough for two. The entertaining hall is 
an expansive room with a worn wooden floor and 
numerous wooden tables and chairs.
The music inside the Horn Gate Inn varies from 
night to night, but it is always merry. Playing for the 
inn’s patrons is an honor granted only to the most 
talented of musicians. Locals often visit the inn to 
dance a jig with friends and visitors; those from 
elsewhere may find fey forwardness a bit off-putting. 
The Horn Gate Inn deals exclusively in the currency 
of the mortal realm, rather than any minted in the 
Shadow Realm, though its owners will accept other 
goods in exchange for lodging. Food, also available 
for purchase with coin, is fairly typical of the mortal 
realm and free of the Shadow Realm’s corruption.
Harried Harald, a disheveled, hardworking human 
(commoner) in his late fifties, tends the bar, pouring 
drinks and sharing information with patrons. 
Tamikula, a fair-haired half-elf with sharp green 
eyes and soft cheeks, waits the tables. Her patience 
with demanding customers is thin, but she goes out 
of her way to assist polite travelers. The inn is run by 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 86 ---
86
Book of Ebon Tides
Rodrig Goldseam, a portly, middle-aged dwarf who 
reports interesting findings to the city’s Second Blade, 
Tristelia Caernefille.
The inn’s most opulent room, called the Whispering 
Room by the staff, is haunted by the spirit of Loris 
Treik, a maiden who was seduced by Gunrik Stoll 
and murdered in the room by Stoll’s jealous human 
mistress, Hiernanda Kitza. Loris’s ghost rarely 
appears in the room, preferring to haunt the dreams of 
those who sleep in it (see Whispering Room sidebar).
2. The Pluming Lantern Pleasure Salon. This 
establishment, called the Stick and Dome by locals, is a 
large, square building of turquoise marble. A few small 
windows sit on each side, and two small doors stand 
at its front and back. A crystal dome atop the building 
casts broken rainbows and provides much of the light 
inside the otherwise solid structure. 
A single narrow tower juts up from one corner. 
Capped with a pointed roof, the almost featureless 
structure has a single balcony that rings its girth. 
Layers of perfume and incense hang in the air and 
stick to any cloth inside the pleasure salon. Plush 
carpets line its floors, and tapestries depicting lewd 
images of fey consorting with bestial humanoids 
Whispering Room
A creature that takes a long rest in this room is 
wracked by vivid dreams, which rapidly alternate 
from a warm embrace and the sound of whispered 
endearments to skeletal hands wrapped around the 
dreamer’s throat and the sound of hissed curses. At 
the end of the long rest, the creature gains no benefit 
from the rest, takes 10 (3d6) psychic damage, and 
gains one level of exhaustion. A successful DC 20 
Wisdom saving throw avoids the psychic damage but 
not the other effects.
To end the haunting and bring rest to the ghost, 
Loris’s murderer, Hiernanda Kitza (LE human 
archmage), now a powerful magic user, must spend a 
full night in the room—this may result in her death or 
a transfer of the whisper-curse, the constant sound of 
accusing whispers surrounding Kitza. Ending the curse 
of the Whispering Room earns Rodrig Goldseam’s 
eternal gratitude, and he offers free lodging to the 
heroes for the rest of his life.
Corremel, the City of Lanterns
Ruler: Hander Svenk, the Black Prince  
(see Courts of the Shadow Fey)
Important Personages: 
Ander Wyth, Master of the Market Stalls (LE shadow fey 
knight of the road, see Creature Codex); Aten Aerlich, 
First Blade of the City Watch (LN shadow fey duelist, 
see Tome of Beasts); Bort, seneschal to the Black Prince 
(LE shadow goblin scribe, see Chapter 9); Gunrik 
Stoll (LE dwarf necromancer, see Creature Codex); 
Henrik Stoll (LE dream eater, see Tome of Beasts); Marti 
Dwerik, Head Lamp of the Lamplighter’s Guild (LN elf 
mage); Masika Gamall, Mistress of the Pluming Lantern 
(CG werelion war priest, see Creature Codex); Oyrepple 
Flinders (LE devilbound gnomish prince, see Tome 
of Beasts); Rodrig Goldseam (N dwarf bandit lord, see 
Tome of Beasts); Shiallee of the Carriage House (N human 
mage); Smiling Aymag, First Tormentor of Scourge Circle 
(NE shadow fey enchantress, see Tome of Beasts); 
Tamrana Lanzt, clerk to the prince (N shadow fey 
ambassador, see Creature Codex); Tristelia Caernefille, 
Second Blade of the City Watch (LE shadow fey forest 
hunter, see Tome of Beasts); Twylla Yoop, Mistress of the 
Sheltered Market (LE shadow fey knight of the road, 
see Creature Codex)
Population: 50,000 (23,000 shadow fey, 15,000 shadow 
goblins, and 12,000 umbral humans)
Great Gods: Sarastra (patron), Laughing Loki, Mammon, 
Ninkash, and Rava
Trade Goods: Lanterns, papyrus, ale, figs, pork, 
fish, melons, oranges, lemons, and goats (in order of 
importance)
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 87 ---
87
Fey Courts and Servitors
adorn the walls. The colors, once vibrant, have been 
bleached by time and the Shadow Realm. 
A public bath costs 1 sp. A private bath, which 
can accommodate up to eight Medium creatures, 
costs 1 gp per attendee. A secret bath, named for its 
enchantments that prevent magical or mundane 
eavesdropping, costs 100 gp per attendee. A secret bath 
can accommodate up to ten Medium creatures and is a 
popular place to make deals despite the high cost.
Those seeking to exercise more carnal desires can 
find nearly any consensual pleasure at the Pluming 
Lantern, barring congress with children or the dead. 
The rates for such activities range from 10 gp for 
30 minutes with one of the skilled courtesans to 
several thousand gold for such complex joys as being 
immersed completely in the daydreams of young 
lovers while being whipped by gossamer-strand-
wielding sprites. Payment at the Pluming Lantern 
must be made in mortal coin, and the establishment 
does not trade services for goods or other services. 
The Pluming Lantern is run by Masika Gamall, 
a priestess of Bastet in exile from her home in Per-
Bastet. Fleeing that city’s ruler, Meskhenit, for her 
hand in directing the slaughter of a group of slavers, 
Masika made her way to Corremel-in-Shadow. She 
was unaware that the slavers were spies returning with 
urgent news regarding an impending dragonborn 
incursion against the City of Cats. Meskhenit is 
furious with Masika’s actions and will pay handsomely 
for information that leads to her capture.
3. The Sheltered Market. This massive, ancient 
obsidian building is surrounded by fluted columns 
that support a gently sloped roof. Inside the Sheltered 
Market, friezes decorate the walls and ceiling, 
depicting diplomatic scenes of the shadow fey 
interacting with others. Most of the goods that make 
their way into Corremel are bought and sold here.
Unlike the market stalls in other parts of the city, the 
Sheltered Market is almost staid. Spaces are uniformly 
sized lots with the more prosperous merchants taking 
several adjacent lots to display their wares. Mistress 
Twylla Yoop, the owner of the Sheltered Market, runs 
it with greedy efficiency, levying fines against any 
creature who disobeys the edicts clearly posted around 
the market. When disputes arise, she rules in favor of 
whomever pays her the largest bribe, and she often 
levies a steep tariff on the loser for wasting her valuable 
time. Twylla is a confidante and sometimes lover of 
Gunrik Stoll, co-leader of the Stoll Cartel, and she 
turns a blind eye to most cartel activity in her demesne.
Those who cannot pay their fines at the Sheltered 
Market are held for humiliation at Scourge Circle. 
Detainment usually lasts 1 day for every 50 gp in 
unpaid fines, though punishments vary at Twylla’s 
discretion. She is more lenient toward musicians and 
much harsher toward kobolds and goblins.
4. Prince Hander Svenk’s Palace. The Black Prince’s 
palace is a series of six amethyst towers, each topped 
by a statue of a former city ruler. Each tower is 
attached to a larger, central tower, which is topped 
with a conical-pyramid roof and flying buttresses.
The lower floors of the central tower are open to the 
public, and visitors often tour the tower’s ancient and 
exquisite collections of art, trophies, murals, friezes, 
and wall hangings. The tower’s upper floors are 
closed to the public and house the Black Prince and 
his numerous concubines and shadow fey servants. 
Excepting his seneschal, Bort, the Black Prince’s 
hundreds of shadow goblin servants live in two 
basement levels below the central tower. 
Going to the Sheltered Market
In theory, one can find nearly any non-artifact item at 
the Sheltered Market, though availability and price vary: 
	•A buyer can find any mundane, non-consumable 
item in 1d3 hours. A successful DC 10 Charisma 
(Deception, Intimidation, or Persuasion) check 
reduces this to 1 hour.
	•A buyer can find an exotic item or a common or 
uncommon magic item with 1d6 hours of talking and 
searching and with a successful DC 20 Intelligence 
(Investigation) or Charisma (Deception, Intimidation, 
or Persuasion) check.
	•A customer can find a rare magical item with 4d6 
hours of talking and searching and with a successful 
DC 25 Intelligence (Investigation) or Charisma 
(Deception, Intimidation, or Persuasion) check. 
Vendors selling these items rarely accept coin for 
them, preferring barter.
	•Very rare or unique magical items might not be 
available, at the GM’s discretion, and a customer 
looking for such an item usually must endure a 
dangerous task in exchange.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 88 ---
88
Book of Ebon Tides
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 89 ---
89
Fey Courts and Servitors
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 90 ---
90
Book of Ebon Tides
On occasion, the Black Prince’s younger sister, a pale 
shadow fey named Rosali Svenk, wanders the floors 
of the central tower, unnerving staff and visitors alike. 
No matter her location in the tower, its occupants 
always hear the subtle clinking of the tiny animal skulls 
tied to her gnarled staff as if she is walking just behind 
them. For more information on Rosali Svenk, the Pale 
Witch, see Courts of the Shadow Fey.
The six adjoining towers are cleverly designed 
prisons, housing the few creatures who have truly 
pricked the Black Prince’s ire. Three of the towers are 
occupied and hold the following prisoners:
•	 Nuallia Hillier. The Black Prince’s first lover was 
imprisoned when she spurned him. Nuallia can 
move through her beautifully appointed tower 
freely, but she is treated with indifference by any 
guards or servants who attend to her needs.
•	 Ceres. This lunar elf assassin came close to publicly 
ending the Black Prince’s life. The tower is full of 
greased platforms and illusory warriors who often 
beat the prisoner.
•	 Tig. This shadow fey critic made the mistake of 
publishing a satire, depicting the Black Prince as 
a kind-hearted fairy. His tower prison resounds 
with mocking laughter at all hours. Every time he 
moves to another room, an audible parody of his 
sentencing hearing plays throughout the tower.
5. Firefade Park. Occupying the northern banks of 
the River Lethe, this park is filled with maple and oak 
trees separated by narrow paths of gray cobblestone. 
The entire park is suffused with a dim orange-yellow 
illumination, and the park’s central clearing is never 
empty as visitors and residents alike come to enjoy the 
view of the park’s large fountain. 
A majestic fountain, made of the same white 
marble as the River Bridge, depicts a bear’s head in 
profile with a human head caught in its jaws. The 
human head in turn has a frog in its mouth, and the 
frog has a carp by the tail. The carp’s body is carved 
as if the frog caught it mid-leap, and its mouth emits 
a constant stream of pure, clear water. The fountain 
is guarded by six well-armed shadow fey guardians 
(see Tome of Beasts). Those wishing to drink at the 
fountain must pay the clerk, Tamrana Lanzt, before 
they can drink the water. The clerk works on behalf of 
Prince Hander Svenk and accepts silver coin as well as 
more esoteric payments for use of the fountain. 
Fire damage is halved while in the park, and 
creatures caught attempting to burn the trees are 
detained for trial at the Black Prince’s leisure. Those 
caught drinking the water without sufficient payment 
are also detained for trial. 
6. Shady Lane. While the bright lanterns of the 
city illuminate most of the streets and buildings, 
less savory individuals have a knack for discovering 
darkened nooks and crannies. Shady Lane, located 
off Guild Avenue, is a dark, narrow alley. Lanterns are 
dimmer here, and even magical light is muted, much 
to the consternation of the city’s lamplighters. The 
light in Shady Lane is never brighter than dim light. 
On rare occasions, creatures who have stumbled into 
Shady Lane exit confused onto another road in the 
city—one which is not actually connected to the lane.
7. Lamplighter’s Guildhall. In the Shadow Realm’s 
most well-lit city, the Lamplighter’s Guildhall, 
unsurprisingly, sees reasonable traffic. This 
ostentatious mansion has multiple gables and turrets, 
with a fine exterior of wood painted bright blue with 
gold trim. While the building has no balconies, a 
Saving the City of Lanterns / from the Book of Ebon Tides
Alas, Corremel, where magic rose to such heights along its arcane 
river that all its beauty was swept into shadow! Many shelter 
there, stepping between the bright world and the shadow 
world to bring all the bounty of the mortals to the fey. It often 
seems a place waiting to return to the sunlit world. A small 
gathering of mages there, calling themselves the Bright 
Sparks, dares to entertain the notion that Corremel could fall 
back out of shadow and become a mortal land again if only the 
attention of the right old gods were brought to bear.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 91 ---
91
Fey Courts and Servitors
Firefade Park Fountain
The crystal-clear water flowing from this fountain comes 
directly from the Elemental Plane of Water. It is pure, 
cold, and delicious. A creature that drinks this water 
removes one level of exhaustion and gains temporary 
hit points equal to its CR or level. Once a creature has 
drunk from the fountain, it must finish a long rest before 
it can benefit from the fountain’s water again.
large, covered porch runs along one side and over the 
main entrance. The guildhall has many windows, and 
its tallest turrets are four stories high. 
The current head of the Lamplighter’s Guildhall 
is Head Lamp Marti Dwerik, a ruthless careerist 
who detects and exterminates potential rivals before 
they can formalize any sort of opposition. Marti is a 
controlling guildmaster who demands her dozens of 
underlings report directly to her throughout the day 
before returning to their task of ensuring the lanterns 
about the city remain lit.
Most of the lights in the city are magical, and the 
Lamplighter’s Guild includes numerous magically 
talented individuals. Dozens of guild members with 
little to no magical ability, referred to as “skips” 
behind their backs, light, douse, and maintain the 
non-magical lights in Corremel. These guildmembers 
also report any broken or counterspelled magical 
lights to the Illuminator’s Committee. 
In recent years, the Lamplighter’s Guild has 
been infiltrated by doppelgangers working for the 
Stoll Cartel. As new doppelganger agents become 
available, Henrik Stoll sends them to murder a 
member of the guild and assume that member’s life 
and personality. It is the Stoll brothers’ hope that 
soon their agents can rise up and butcher the guild’s 
leadership. Once this occurs, the brothers plan to 
assume control of the guild and exploit homes and 
businesses for preferential illumination. Unknown to 
the Stoll brothers, most of the doppelgangers actually 
enjoy their new lives and aren’t too keen on replacing 
the guild’s current leadership.
8. The River Bridge. Easily the most notable feature 
of the city, the white marble bridge spans the black 
River Lethe and is featured on the city’s coat of arms. 
It provides one of the few ways to safely cross the 
specter-haunted river, making it one of the busiest 
and most traveled locations in the entire city. The 
bridge is truly ancient, and its creation predates the 
founding of Corremel. Lunar elves and devotees of 
Hecate claim that the goddess herself set the bridge’s 
foundation stones, and small candle-lit shrines 
sometimes spring up to the goddess on either bank.
Each of the bridge’s supports features a carving of 
an unfortunate soul recently lost to the waters of the 
River Lethe. The expressions of the graven figures are 
always both horrified and haunting. The images are 
ever-changing as the Lethe quickly claims the unwary 
who fall into its dark waters. The Lanternkeepers 
regularly patrol the bridge. 
9. River Lethe. One of the major waterways in the 
Shadow Realm, the River Lethe is a dangerous torrent 
of inky shadow, running through Corremel. Like all 
the waters in this realm, the River Lethe is frigidly cold 
and haunted by the creatures who perished in or near 
it. Many a soul has attempted to wade or swim across 
this river only to be consumed by it or its hungry 
spirits, making safe passage via ferry or the River 
Bridge so attractive. 
A shadow road stretches along the riverbank inside 
the city, connecting Corremel to the Crossroad region 
near the Free City of Zobeck. Shadow goblin guides 
sometimes offer visitors assistance in opening the 
shadow road’s portal to begin the journey to the mortal 
world, though in most such cases they merely open a 
portal and do not participate in any further travel.
10. Stoll’s House. Like a dead flower in a flawless 
garden, this small dwelling stands out from the 
beautiful buildings in the southwest quarter. Peeling 
paint, crumbling roof tiles, and other evidence of 
neglect make this run-down peasant’s abode appear to 
belong more in the Tumbles than anywhere else.
However, Stoll’s House is a facade. The extensive 
network of catacombs below it houses the network 
of spies, assassins, and other criminals Gunrik and 
Henrik Stoll employ. Officially, the group is called the 
Queensman’s Guild, though most locals simply call 
it the Stoll Cartel. The guild is responsible for most 
organized crime in Corremel, excepting slavery, which 
is run by Oyrepple Flinders (see Joyful Park below). 
The guild’s inability to break into the slavery racket is 
a sore subject with the Stoll brothers, and they would 
richly reward any group or individual who could help 
them dismantle Flinders’s organization.
The Queensman’s Guild is largely comprised of 
human, shadow fey, and doppelganger agents with a 
few halflings, tieflings, shadow goblins, and half-elves. 
They do not employ darakhul, lunar or sable elves, 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 92 ---
92
Book of Ebon Tides
bearfolk, or wyrd gnomes. The organization has 117 
members with other specialists contracted as needed. 
The Stoll brothers appear to be cantonal dwarves, 
and indeed Gunrik is what he appears to be. Henrik, 
however, was dispatched and replaced by a dream 
eater (see Tome of Beasts) about a decade ago. 
Since Henrik’s ideals were largely the same as his 
replacement’s, the change has gone unnoticed.
11. Joyful Park. Joyful Park sits on the southern 
banks of the River Lethe. Countless visitors 
to Corremel stop for a rest here, enjoying the 
park’s proximity to the bridge and its many street 
entertainers, performing at the small amphitheater. 
Very few guests are aware of the park’s secret: a 
subterranean slave market sits beneath Joyful Park, 
where slavers auction off unfortunates to the highest 
bidder. The varied assortment of bidders makes it 
difficult to determine a slave’s fate. Some purchasers 
work their new property to death while others 
prefer to house their recent acquisition in comfort, 
merely withdrawing a memory at a time until there is 
nothing left.
The Law in Corremel
All visitors to the city should be aware of some of its 
stranger laws.
•	 To speak ill of the Queen of Night and Magic or 
the Black Prince is treason.
•	 Vandalizing an image of any member of the court 
is grounds for permanent expulsion from the city.
•	 Damaging another’s reputation will be punished 
as severely as if the offender had harmed the 
victim’s body—possibly more so. (And yet, gossip 
is a local pastime.)
•	 An offender has no right to representation at 
trial. Guilt or innocence can be determined in the 
offender’s absence. 
•	 Ignorance is no excuse for acting ignorant.
•	 The Black Prince has the final word and is exempt 
from all laws.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 93 ---
93
Fey Courts and Servitors
Planar Travel  
Via the Tumbles
For every hour a character spends wandering through 
the Tumbles, there is a 1 in 20 chance they encounter 
a portal. A character must succeed on a Wisdom 
(Perception) check to detect and avoid the portal. A 
character must succeed on an Intelligence (Arcana) 
check to discern the portal’s destination. The character 
has advantage on this check if they know the gate 
or teleportation circle spells (or similar magic from 
Chapter 4). 
Use the following table to determine the destination 
of the portal, its DC, and its noticeable characteristics. 
Choose a plane from the cosmology you prefer that 
matches the themes listed.
TABLE 6–1: PORTALS IN THE TUMBLES
d20
Destination Plane
Arcana DC Characteristics
1–2
Heavens or hells
13
The portal is slightly warmer than its surroundings and 
smells of ozone (heavens) or sulfur (hells).
3
Astral or the Void 
13
A chill hangs in the air around the portal.
4–7
Pocket dimension  
(a hub of trade)
15
The sharp scent of spices and the sound of thousands of 
whispering voices waft through the air near the portal.
8
Lawful, clockwork plane
14
The air around the portal smells and tastes of iron.
9
Elvish realm or plane
14
Faint motes of floating light dance around the portal.
10
Plane of war
13
The scent of blood hangs in the air around the portal, and 
the sounds of clashing blades and screams echo from it.
11–16
Random Shadow Realm location
16
Shadows thicken around the portal, and the air feels oily.
17–20 Random mortal world location
17
Colors near the portal are brighter, and the air smells fresh.
The slave market is overseen by Oyrepple Flinders, 
a gnome who secretly serves Nislev the Tidy, a young 
blue dragon. Oyrepple stole the dragon’s egg from a 
smuggler who escaped into the Shadow Realm from 
a desert kingdom over 70 years ago. He cultivated 
the dragon’s greed and vanity over the decades and 
now serves the powerful creature in the shadows of 
Joyful Park. Nislev’s ultimate goal is to assemble a 
hoard that contains a living member of every sentient 
race, and he encouraged the gnome to open the 
slave market a few decades ago to further this goal. 
Oyrepple’s minions, a seemingly endless number of 
dark folk (see Creature Codex), murder anyone who 
causes trouble for him, Nislev, or the slave market.
12. Market Stalls. This collection of carts, makeshift 
structures, mats piled high with goods, hawkers, and 
wandering peddlers is a riot of colors, scents, and 
sounds as suits the ground where the majority of the 
foodstuff in Corremel is bought and sold. Vendors 
from the mortal world, the Shadow Realm, and many 
other planes fill the stalls, trying to earn a living in 
the City of Lanterns. They learn quickly there is no 
point getting too comfortable in a location as they are 
unlikely to have the same spot on their next visit to 
the city.
The Market Stalls are overseen by Ander Wyth, a 
charmingly wry shadow fey who treats all vendors 
equally. When disputes between customers and 
vendors are brought to him, Ander generally rules in 
the most ironic fashion possible, ensuring neither 
party is truly satisfied.
13. The Tumbles. Most buildings in the Tumbles 
are crumbling or rotten, and some homes are 
missing walls, stairs, or large sections of roof. While 
they remain standing, pieces of houses have been 
known to shift and fall on unsuspecting passersby. 
Inhabitants of the Tumbles are often desperate for 
food, water, or medicine, and most residents of 
Corremel avoid the area.
The fabric of the Shadow Realm is fragile here, 
and invisible portals to other planes form frequently. 
These portals are short-lived, eventually collapsing 
and tearing small portions of the nearby area away 
with them. Those adventurous or desperate enough 
to brave the area wander aimlessly among its 
buildings, looking for an escape to somewhere else. A 
few enterprising locals sometimes hire their services 
out as guides. A small shrine to Laughing Loki stands 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 94 ---
94
Book of Ebon Tides
here, though residents say it can be found only by 
those who aren’t looking for it. 
14. Scourge Circle. This small square is tiled in 
marble and contains dozens of cages, platforms, 
stocks, pillories, and other devices used to punish 
criminals. At any given time, upward of 20 creatures 
are suffering punishment of some sort.
While painful punishments and executions are 
not unknown in Corremel, the most common form 
of punishment is humiliation. The First Tormentor, 
Smiling Aymag, is particularly inventive in devising 
humiliations to inflict upon the prisoners in her care. 
She is currently fond of having prisoners stripped, 
shaven, coated in honey, rolled in breadcrumbs, 
and posed improbably for the viewing public. All 
creatures known to have been punished here have −1 
to their Status. (For more on Status, see Chapter 1.)
Prisoners are housed in sparse cellhouses located 
directly north of Scourge Circle.
15. Shiallee’s Carriage House. This expansive lot has 
ample space to park carriages, and the staff makes 
minor and major carriage repairs. Travelers find this a 
worthwhile stop as the workers of the carriage house 
are knowledgeable and meticulous.
An immense white-brick mansion dominates 
the beautifully maintained lot, and it welcomes all 
visitors to Corremel—for 5 gp of course. This fee 
often limits the carriage house’s clientele to denizens 
of the Shadow Realm and the more successful 
merchants of the mortal world. The carriage house, 
owned by the elusive and rarely seen Shiallee, is run 
by the numerous people under her employ. It has 20 
guestrooms, a small bathhouse, two dining rooms, 
a small ballroom, a large study, and a games room. 
All of the guest rooms are on the upper floor while 
the shared rooms are located on the main level. (A 
separate wing belonging to Shiallee herself is closed 
to the public.)
The bathhouse can house no more than six people 
at a time, but admission, and a bar of scented soap, 
is included with a stay at Shiallee’s. The large study 
houses an extensive collection of books from various 
planes on a broad range of topics, from angelic 
plumage to horn structures in demons to the customs 
of the shoth. The games room features a billiards 
table, darts, chess, assorted cards and dice, and 
other games. Guests dance each evening within the 
ballroom, a beautifully detailed space with carved 
wooden panels and exquisite glass lanterns, floating 
near the high ceiling. A quintet of shadow fey serves as 
the house musicians, nicknamed the Handsome Five. 
Coin and other goods are rarely accepted as 
payment in the mansion, though they may be 
accepted for work on a carriage. Shiallee prefers 
payment in favors, services, or information and 
often sells such things to others. If it happened in the 
Shadow Realm, chances are Shiallee has heard of it or 
knows someone who has. 
16. Lanternkeepers’ Barracks. This large communal 
home for the city watch is built of gray stone with a 
peaked black roof. Members of the watch are known 
as Lanternkeepers for the distinctive lanterns they 
carry as their badges of office, though locals just call 
them Keepers. 
Martial equipment litters many of the rooms, 
cleverly scattered to allow the Lanternkeepers easy 
access to weaponry while hindering those unfamiliar 
with the layout. First Blade Aten Aerlich and Second 
Blade Tristelia Caernefille run the barracks with 
strict adherence to time and duties. A small building 
near the gates of the barracks houses an on-duty 
Lanternkeeper who is meant to assist the general 
public. In truth, most Keepers at the gatehouse post 
despise it and pointedly ignore visitors. The gates 
to the barracks themselves are kept closed, except 
during changes of the watch. 
Several hundred Lanternkeepers serve in 
Going to the Market Stalls
Given enough time, a market visitor can find almost 
any type of food or drink, prepared or raw, in the 
Market Stalls: 
•	 A visitor can find common foodstuff, including 
dishes from all nations of the mortal realm, in 
less than an hour.
•	 A visitor seeking more exotic food and 
drink must spend 1d4 hours searching the 
chaotic jumble of stalls and succeed on a DC 
15 Intelligence (Investigation) or Charisma 
(Deception, Intimidation, or Persuasion) check.
•	 A visitor wanting a rare or illicit substance must 
spend 2d4 hours searching and succeed on a 
DC 20 Intelligence (Investigation) or Charisma 
(Deception, Intimidation, or Persuasion) check. 
At the GM’s discretion, some substances may 
not be found at the Market Stalls.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 95 ---
Book of Ebon Tides
Corremel, with a minimum of twelve five-person 
patrols active in the city at any given time. An 
average patrol consists of a city watch captain (see 
Tome of Beasts) and four guards, though a mage or 
priest of Sarastra may join any given patrol. Each 
Lanternkeeper carries a distinctive oval lantern made 
of silver that glows with magical light. These lanterns 
serve as the badges of office for each Lanternkeeper, 
and it is a crime punishable by death for a non-
Lanternkeeper to possess one. If a lantern is ever lost 
or stolen, the entire barracks comes to life, striving en 
masse to retrieve the lantern.
17. House of Dream Birds. This square home 
surrounds a closed courtyard filled with lemon trees, 
flowering vines, and many small birds with white 
plumage. They are all tended by Ainoress Gabboneth, 
a sable elf matron who is the priestess of this strange 
temple to Gytellisor. Devotees come to feed the birds, 
to write gloomy poetry or joyous love notes, and to 
drink wine or smoke requiem in the evenings. The 
place seems more a fashionable public house than 
a temple, though each day the high priestess of the 
dreaming god and her acolytes perform the rites and 
sacrifice a bird on the god’s small basalt altar in the 
courtyard. A scriptorium in the temple copies out the 
god’s sacred verse and (for a fee) anything else that 
either the faithful or merchants, lovers, or spies ask 
them to write.
Court of Golden Oaks
This court is the strongest holding of the sable elves 
in the Shadow Realm, ruled by the bright spark that 
is Her Resplendent Glory Undimmed, Queen Valda, 
whose joy and sternness are fused into a perfect 
golden-haired combination of careful planning, 
shrewd insight, and arcane power. As a mistress 
of the arcane, Valda has outwitted and ensorcelled 
suitors, foes, and assassins, and as a queen, she has 
won the hearts of her own people since she ascended 
the throne and truly began to rule as a young sable elf.
In her days as a bride and young royal, most elves 
of her court considered Queen Valda a charming, 
well-educated ornament rather than a serious ruler or 
head of state. However, when her husband, the Crow 
Prince, abandoned the court to seek wisdom from 
Yggdrasil, she was perforce required to suddenly leave 
her books, calligraphy, and arcane musings, and she 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 96 ---
96
Book of Ebon Tides
took command to keep the fortress of the sable elves 
from falling to its enemies. She has taken little time to 
think of where the Crow Prince is and what he might 
be up to on his quest, for the queen has enemies 
aplenty among the shadow fey, the satarre, and the 
gnomes. The court’s position at a planar nexus means 
that outside forces both strengthen it (when they 
seek to trade and pay handsomely for goods from far 
afield) and undermine it (when they seek to seize its 
position for themselves).
The court’s patron god is Valeros, patron of the 
elves, and both the queen and her people value 
martial strength, arcane power, and personal 
courage. Archery is a popular pastime, and the court 
bowyer, Vilhopelli, produces astonishing, sometimes-
enchanted bows, arrows, and fletching, using 
materials from the Golden Oak. However, Vilhopelli 
always demands great favors or other magical items 
in exchange—his sobriquet, “the Generous,” a bit of 
an insult as he is notoriously tight-fisted.
The Golden Branch of Yggdrasil. The strength of 
the Court of Golden Oaks is closely linked to its 
position within and around a World Tree, the Golden 
Oak, and its various paths and mystical acorns. The 
Golden Oak itself towers as most World Trees do, 
and the portal to its branches is treated as any other 
gate or road out of the court: watched and respected 
Court of the Golden Oak
Ruler: Her Kind Majesty and Queen of the Sable Elves, 
Valda Limineska, Keeper of the Golden Grove, Mistress 
of Laughter, Mother to Dawn, Her Resplendent Glory 
Undimmed (CG sable elf archmage)
Important Personages: Ainu-Olla the 
Swift‑Handed, Captain of the City Watch (NG sable 
elf city watch captain, see Tome of Beasts); Bowyer 
to the Court Vilhopelli the Generous (LE shadow 
fey knight of the road, see Creature Codex); 
Chamberlain and Court Sorcerer Lumi-Livia the Kind 
(NG sable elf hierophant, see Chapter 9); Chief 
Librarian and Royal Gardener Drossilda of the Golden 
Eye (LG bearfolk apostle of Bengta, see Tome of 
Beasts 3); Chief Magistrate and Arcane Proctor Justee 
Arnosh the Seventh (NE shadow goblin archmage); 
Ekkitta‑rup‑Wisewhisker, Keeper of the Golden Acorn 
(CG ratatosk warlord, see Creature Codex); Grumbor 
Bluebelly of the Second Circle (N bearfolk druid); Keeper 
of the Tree, Maariko-Tirhi (NE human veteran)
Population: 9,000 (6,000 sable elves, 1,000 shadow 
goblins, 900 wyrd gnomes, 600 bearfolk, 300 umbral 
humans, 150 half-elves, and 50 ratatosk)
Great Gods: Valeros (patron), Baccho, Bengta, Charun, 
and Sarastra
Trade Goods: Furs, silver, amber, salt fish, oak, wool, 
and tin (in order of importance)
as the Golden Oak connects easily to Grenstad, the 
city of the ratatosk on Yggdrasil, as well as to the 
Uppermarket of a pocket plane devoted to trade, 
and Wotan’s Tree in the snowy northlands of the 
mortal world. Ratatosks make up a small but loudly 
chittering minority in the court itself, and many of the 
boldest serve as guides and heralds to other realms.
Merchants and travelers who come through the 
Golden Oak vary widely and include celestials, 
humans, ratatosks, tieflings, satarre, and even fiends 
and fey lords. For some reason, almost all are granted 
passage so long as they swear to remain peaceful 
within the court and its various fiefdoms, villages, 
and holdings. Those who refuse are turned back with 
wand and sword if necessary. 
Sweet Field of Victory. The Court of Golden Oaks 
is loved by humans, shadow fey, and others who are 
primarily visitors for the competitions, tourneys, and 
feats of strength that Queen Valda sponsors. As is 
tradition in many elven courts, Queen Valda declares 
the contests, called the Tournaments of Oak and Ash, 
when the season seems right. She invites all comers to 
the court to prove their ability as archers, as knights, 
or as wizards. Sometimes these include particular 
tests such as jousts, melees, target shooting, shooting 
on the wing, battle magic, counterspell duels, feats 
of horsemanship, drawing shadow power, or tilting 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 97 ---
97
Fey Courts and Servitors
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 98 ---
98
Book of Ebon Tides
at a golden ring. At other times, she may include a 
test of poetry or dancing, merely to show that not 
all a knight’s prowess comes from strength of arms. 
The contests are the ones the queen declares, and 
the winners are given prizes and win renown both at 
the court itself and among other elves, shadow fey, 
gnomes, and the like. 
College of the Acorn. While outsiders prize 
the tourneys and the spectacle, the queen and 
her advisors spend more time concentrating on 
studious matters and raising new battle mages 
for the Company of Golden Wands, the court’s 
arcane soldiers. These troops are trained by Arcane 
Proctor Justee Arnosh, a shadow goblin wizard of 
great power but (unusually for a shadow goblin) 
a very humble attitude. He delights in serving 
Queen Valda and bringing glory to the court and in 
teaching young humans, sable elves, and shadow 
goblins the rudiments of battlefield magic. Ratatosk 
rune wizards and bearfolk druids sometimes also 
contribute to the curriculum. 
Both Court Sorcerer Lumi-Livia the Kind and the 
golden-furred bearfolk Chief Librarian Drossilda 
serve as instructors, though much of the work of 
repetition and testing is done by various sable elf 
apprentices and underlings. The College of the Acorn 
also maintains a tradition of asking all visiting druids, 
wizards, and sorcerers to address the students on a 
topic of interest.
Court of Mice and Ravens 
Ruled—or at least sponsored—by the fey lord 
Reynard, the Court of Mice and Ravens is an 
amalgam of trickery, clever plots, and alchemy, 
mixed with impulsive magic and with a bent toward 
the mystical or humorous. While it may seem like 
chaos on the surface, the erinas at the bridge gates 
manage to keep away most threats to the island-city 
itself, and the Haberdasher Royal seems to always 
be preternaturally aware of things, either through 
divination or his powerful network of ratfolk and 
other furred and feathered spies. The city is also 
known to have a shadow road connection to the court 
of the Mouse King. 
Scoundrels Galore. Rogues and bards adore 
their patron lord, and this is why the place is often 
called the Rogue’s Court among the fey. The variety 
of inhabitants, courtiers, officious minions, and 
seal-toting officials is high—as is the number of 
fraudsters, charlatans, jongleurs, fire-eaters, runaway 
apprentices, and disinherited noble children. Every 
inhabitant has a story, and most seek just a little help 
to be restored to their rightful title, shape, inheritance, 
or lands. Alongside a small but lively ghetto of ratfolk, 
jokingly called the Pantry, a mixture of sable elf 
rogues, human bards, courtfolk halflings, fey owls, 
bearfolk, alseid, and erina are all relatively common. 
Lost Goods and Trickery. The Court of Mice 
and Ravens has a thriving trade in lost goods and 
somewhat shady potions. Outrageous philters of lust 
Adventures at the Court of the Golden Oak
While the court is generally peaceful and civilized, it 
occasionally attracts dangerous visitors:
•	
A fiend enters the court via the gate in the Golden 
Oak and demands an audience in the name of one 
of the dukes of hell. Surprisingly, the queen agrees 
to meet with it but asks the PCs to provide additional 
sword arms.
•	
A druid of the gardens is found as little more than a 
dry husk among the peonies. A vampire or wraith 
has drawn all life from the body and now haunts the 
gardens each night.
•	
A courtier asks a PC spellcaster to provide a lecture 
on an arcane or druidic topic. During the lesson at the 
college, the speaker is booed, insulted, and heckled by 
an old enemy who is now a student here. 
•	
A messenger sent out to the Golden Oak has not 
returned from Grenstad, city of the ratatosk. The queen 
and the captain of the guard alike fear a gang of void 
cultists (see Creature Codex) or simply bandits may 
have established themselves near the portal. The sable 
elves have not been able to find their stronghold, and 
Watch Captain Ainu‑Olla is now offering a reward.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 99 ---
99
Fey Courts and Servitors
or philters of enchanted fortune (see memory philters 
in Chapter 10) are readily available here—as is the 
highly addictive requiem (see Requiem, Drug of the 
Afterlife sidebar in Chapter 7). The wyrd gnomes 
grow a few rose golems (though not as many as 
at the Court of Pale Roses), and gnomish pranks 
involving exploding frogs, luminously painted bats, 
and magical balloons and fireworks are relatively 
frequent. Items purloined anywhere in the Shadow 
Realm can sometimes be found here—or at the very 
least the well-informed master of protocol or the 
extremely keen-eyed master of the gate may have 
noted it passing in or out of the court by boat or via 
one of its many bridges.
Stepping-Stone River. The court itself is built on a 
series of islands on a river, deep woods to one side. 
Its gardens are lush, and small boats and barges 
connect the various noble houses on the islands: 
some have bright towers, others feature large docks 
and a constant hum of activity, and a few are silent 
and a bit ominous with treelined shores, few lights, 
and a bad reputation.
Court of Midnight Teeth 
Gnomes are peculiar creatures, all pointed teeth, 
narcissistic tendencies, blue hair or—in the case of 
the Countess of the Court of Midnight Teeth—all 
three. Countess Phylomara Gladrienne, an influential 
and loyal vassal to the queen and king of the Court 
of Night and Magic (and sometimes the Court of 
the Moonlit King), is a refined and fashionable 
gnome bedecked in fine silks and gleaming jewels 
that compliment her azure hair. She styles her locks 
elaborately and never quite the same way twice, 
setting trends among her courtiers. Beneath this 
veneer of civility and style however, blood and secrets 
await. Manicured lawns, incredibly lifelike statues, 
and bubbling fountains filled with inky midnight 
waters surround her home. String music drifts on the 
perpetual gloom, beckoning travelers to this oasis of 
lantern-dappled beauty.
Lady of the Blue Barbers. The gnome courtiers of 
Midnight Teeth who attend the mistress in her home 
also serve as her agents abroad. They call themselves 
the Blue Barbers after their universally blue hair and 
their desire to bring style to all they meet. They serve 
Court of the Mice and Ravens
Ruler: His Infinite Wisdom and Sly Omnipotence, 
His Jocund Majesty King Reynard, the Fox Lord (see 
Creature Codex), the First Keeper of Ravens, Master of 
the Roads, Lord of the Blue Pine Forest and High Prelate 
of Laughing Loki
Important Personages: Chief Scout and 
Master of War Grumfell Skarsgaar (LN bearfolk field 
commander, see Tome of Beasts 3); Court Jester 
Illahellan Silverbells (CG sable elf thief lord, see 
Creature Codex); Darresh‑kip-Bristletooth, Swift Flying 
Lord of Branches (CG ratatosk warlord, see Creature 
Codex); Haberdasher Royal to the Court Tii-kaw Tokkaw 
(CE ravenfolk archmage); Master of Protocol Winsy 
Cooperson (LN courtfolk halfling assassin); Most 
Watchful Guardian of the Gate Unwina the Cook (NG 
erina city watch captain); Noble Trickster and High 
Prelate of Santerr Marossa Carashtella Fimbulfinger (CN 
shadow goblin first servant of Santerr Marossa, see 
Tome of Beasts 3)
Population: 8,000 (3,000 shadow goblins, 2,000 
sable elves, 800 wyrd gnomes, 600 erina, 500 courtfolk 
halflings, 400 ravenfolk, 400 ratfolk, 150 bearfolk, 100 
alseid, and 50 ratatosk)
Great Gods: Laughing Loki (patron), Baccho, Charun, 
Santerr Marossa, and Sarastra
Trade Goods: Furs, dried meat, maple wood, dyed 
leathers, hats, ironwork, and musical instruments (in order 
of importance)
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 100 ---
100
Book of Ebon Tides
as valets, barbers, art dealers, decorators, and stylists 
of all kinds. The Blue Barbers are polite, gregarious, 
and knowledgeable on a variety of topics, which they 
eagerly share while plying their trade. 
Their leader and guildmaster is Garrolo 
Goldenlock, and he and his associates are various 
stripes of bards, bandit captains, peddlers, and spy 
masters. Their work keeps the gnomes well-informed 
and their foes nervous. Sabotage, blackmail, and 
assassination are all part of their extremely broad and 
extremely ruthless portfolio.
Infiltration of Mirrors. While Countess Phylomara 
is a great user of mirror portals, scrying, and 
divination, one of her foes, the Duchess Shelesorra, 
the Demon of Lies and Cruelty of a minor hell, 
considers the mirror realms her own domain and 
sees the gnome countess’s use of mirrors as an affront 
to her claim. Phylomara pays close attention to 
warding her mirrors and even employs a stubborn, 
keen-eyed erina named Ingo to observe, polish, and 
report on any unusual sightings in her mirrors. All the 
same, demonic visitations and even attacks are not 
unknown, all of them originating from Sooleleed, the 
Mirror Hell of Lies (see Warlock 16: Eleven Hells for 
more details).
HALLS OF THE BLUE BARBERS
The halls of the Blue Barbers comprise a tower 
of white marble and a maze of manor-like wings, 
tunnels, and two-story banquet halls thrown together 
and remixed in a style that can charitably be called 
ad hoc. There’s so little logic to it that guides are 
often required to reach even the most common 
destinations: the guildmaster’s audience chamber, 
the purser’s office, the scriptorium, and the mess 
hall. Adding to the confusion are the dozens of Blue 
Barbers who flit about with seeming unerring sense of 
where they are and where they are headed.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 101 ---
101
Fey Courts and Servitors
In truth, the whole place is meant to befuddle and 
confound visitors, leaving them somewhat exhausted 
before they arrive to speak to any guild member of 
importance. Dead-end staircases, doors leading 
nowhere (but which a Blue Barber may have just 
exited from), secret passages, rotating fireplaces, or 
chimneys containing hidden stairs are all elements of 
the halls. 
The most likely destinations for visitors are often 
locked and marked with a sign reading “Closed 
for Cleaning” or simply “Closed.” Breaking into a 
closed chamber is grounds for expulsion or even 
imprisonment, though in many cases only the 
primary entrance is closed. A secondary, hidden, or 
servant’s entrance may still be perfectly serviceable.
One of the stranger elements of the halls is the 
shrine to the Demon Lord of Night, Alquam, 
which can be seen primarily as an azure dome from 
outside the building. Choral praise to the darkness is 
rendered there by devotees who call themselves the 
Alabar Chorus and who include a half-dozen rather 
famous gnomish bards and jesters. It’s unclear just 
how sincere this group is, for they claim it is little 
more than a friendly gathering of wine, song, and 
macabre storytelling.
Court of Midnight Teeth
Ruler: Countess Phylomara Gladrienne, Countess of Flesh 
and Secrets, Mistress of Midnight Teeth, Mistress of 
the Blue Barbers, Patron of Gnomes, The Divine Gossip, 
Baroness of Gloom, Conjuror Supreme, Lady of Hungers, 
and Keeper of the True Mirror (see Tome of Beasts 2)
Important Personages: Court Mage Trissmena 
Istovash, the Invisible Illusionist (LE gnome archmage); 
General Inspector Kubberolus Gingercrick (LE wyrd gnome 
field commander, see Tome of Beasts 3); Guildmaster 
of the Blue Barbers Garrolo Goldenlock (NE wyrd 
gnome bandit captain); Ingo Ingomarrick, Royal Mirror 
Polisher (LN erina gladiator); Keeper of Ravens Visilius 
Barbatus (N human keeper of ravens, see Chapter 9); 
Librarian‑in-Chief Melora Sadrienn (LN gnome assassin)
Population: 5,600 (2,300 wyrd gnomes, 1,500 umbral 
humans, 800 shadow fey, 500 quicksteps, 300 erina, 100 
sable elves, and 100 ravenfolk) 
Great Gods: Hecate (patron), Ailuros, Alquam, Charun, 
and Santerr Illosi 
Trade Goods: Mirrors, scroll paper, silk cloth, fine wines, 
spiced sausages, illusion seeds, leatherwork, and woolens 
(in order of importance)
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 102 ---
102
Book of Ebon Tides
functions as the traditional seat of the Moonlit 
King, though he only walks its halls when the 
strange seasons of fey rule turn and his Winter Court 
ascends—a turn of events that has not been seen in 
centuries. It has been many years since the seasons 
last turned, and in all that time, the Moonlit King was 
banished to the faraway Tower of the Moon. Rumors 
run rampant now that the Moonlit King has left the 
Tower, and whispers circulate through the halls that 
he’s taken a demon lover or learned secrets of radiant 
magic from Hecate herself. His new cloud court drives 
his wife, the Queen of Night and Magic, to distraction.
Whatever the truth of these whispers, the courts 
agree that the queen now seeks to replace her 
wayward king. The court functions in his absence 
with consorts and courtesans, servants, and the usual 
TOWER OF THE KEENING WINDS
A prison for rebels, nobles, traitors, and unfaithful 
royal spouses, the Tower of the Keening Winds is 
made of gray-black stone and heavily warded to 
reveal invisible or ethereal infiltrators (who appear 
as glittering outlines in gold or silver while on the 
premises). The guards include a dozen mages and 
knights, led by the Commander of the Keening Tower, 
Kubberolus Gingercrick, and supported by two dozen 
trusted and carefully trained gnomish servants. 
The tower’s prisoners include both the serious 
and the ridiculous, including the ghost of Keening 
Kangovar (LE ghost), a swindler of the treasury; 
His Majestic Radiance Chancellor Umberwick (LN 
shadow fey ambassador, see Creature Codex), a royal 
pretender to the throne of the Golden Oaks; the 
heretical Seer of the Twin Light, called Starfire (NE 
shadow fey priest of Sarastra); the warlord Neeka 
Nook (NE shadow goblin bandit lord, see Tome of 
Beasts); and various arcane frauds, charlatans, and 
dispensers of bright, shining lies, including Yssandros 
the Clever (CE human mage), Arbecca Tollshi (LE 
shadow goblin moonshadow catcher, see Chapter 
9), and the arboreal, blood magic wielder Redfur (NE 
bearfolk druid, see Chapter 9). 
The tower’s most famous royal prisoner is surely 
Mistress of Pearls, Baroness of the Purple Pavilion, 
Marina Nikla (LE gnome thief lord, see Creature 
Codex) a longtime companion and courtesan of 
Countess Phylomara, who abandoned the queen 
for a lover among the gnomes of the Court of Pale 
Roses for a time. So enraged and heartbroken was the 
countess that, when Nikla returned for a diplomatic 
visit, she seized her and locked her up. Relations with 
the Court of Pale Roses have been icy ever since.
Court of Night and Magic 
Ruled by Sarastra, the Queen of Night and Magic, 
this is among the largest and best organized of the 
shadow fey courts with a central position astride 
several shadow roads and with towers and wardings 
to control those roads. The Court of Night and Magic 
also has a long association with mortals as well as with 
a number of powerful demons and devils, including 
connections with Akyishigal, Lord of Cockroaches, 
and his roachlings and with Alquam, Lord of Night. 
Highborn Rulers. The true rulers of the shadow 
fey reside in the upper portions of the courts, in the 
Winter Palace and the Royal Halls. The Winter Palace 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 103 ---
103
Fey Courts and Servitors
petitioners hanging about the entrance to the Royal 
Halls. The Gray Ladies dwell here, three ancient 
shadow fey crones with an affinity for spiders and 
weaving. They spend their days spinning silk and 
whispering to one another, searching for individuals 
they can use to bend fate to their whims. 
Ultimate power over shadow fey society rests with 
Her Transcendent Majesty Sarastra Aestruum, the 
The Nature of Shadow / from the Book of Ebon Tides
My various arcanists, priests, and jesters have long debated what 
makes the Shadow Realm malleable and unique. My own thought 
is that it is both an echo of the worlds of mortals and a place 
whose people understand that echoes have substance—and 
light and radiance are every bit as powerful as elemental 
earth, air, fire, and water. My realm is one made of elemental 
light and elemental darkness, and this makes it entirely 
different than realms of crass clay or raging fire. Our truths and 
our lands can be bent to serve my vision for the elves.
Court of Night and Magic
Ruler: Sarastra Aestruum, the Queen of Night and 
Magic (see Tome of Beasts)
Important Personages: Akyishigal, Demon 
Lord of Cockroaches (see Tome of Beasts); Analissa, 
Verousha, and Lyssalyn, the Ladies of Nightbrook (NE 
night hag priests of Hecate); Hander Svenk, the 
Black Prince (see Courts of the Shadow Fey); Kaedrin 
Blackwing, Commander of Horn and Gold (see 
Tome of Beasts 2); the Lord of the Hunt (see Tome 
of Beasts); Revich, the Blind Seer (see Courts of the 
Shadow Fey); Yleira the Swift, Baroness of the Sable Court 
(LE shadow fey forest hunter, see Tome of Beasts)
Population: 660,000 (100,000 shadow fey, 300,000 
shadow goblins, and 260,000 various fey, supplicants,  
and traders) 
Major Enclaves: Corremel, the City of Lanterns, 
population 50,000 (see Corremel, the City of Lanterns 
above); Hunt’s Retreat, population 7,700 (4,000 shadow 
fey, 3,000 shadow goblins, 500 wyrd gnomes, and 
200 umbral humans); Dalliance, population 5,300 (see 
Dalliance below); Wormwood, population 3,500 (1,800 
shadow fey, 900 shadow goblins, and 800 wyrd 
gnomes); Tower of Horn and Gold, population 600 (see 
Tower of Horn and Gold below); Court of Night and 
Magic, population 300 (150 shadow fey, 100 shadow 
goblins, and 50 supplicants to the court); Nightbrook 
Court, population 100 (see Nightbrook below); Sable 
Court, population 100 (shadow fey)
Great Gods: Sarastra (patron), Anu-Akma, Charun, 
the Hunter, and Laughing Loki 
Trade Goods: Secrets, fey wine, metalwork, jewelry, 
memories, illumination magic, and shadow magic (in 
order of importance)
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 104 ---
104
Book of Ebon Tides
Queen of Night and Magic. She dwells in the Royal 
Halls along with the upper crust of shadow fey 
society. Only the most respected supplicants receive 
invitations to enter the Royal Halls for audience, 
and of these, most receive only a sliver of the queen’s 
attention. They make their obeisance, ask a favor, and 
quickly get handed off to court functionaries. 
A lucky few, however, manage to catch the queen’s 
interest. No matter the apparent circumstance, this 
always furthers the queen’s designs or appeases a 
momentary whim. Her Majesty’s direct attention 
is never taken lightly, and sudden alliances or 
rivalries spontaneously spring up around visitors so 
“blessed.” The Royal Halls also host honored guests, 
usually envoys from other fey courts. 
The courts also contain a strange pit called the 
Black Well of Night. A cavern at the bottom of this 
well houses Akyishigal, the Demon Lord of Roaches, 
and his roachling servants, creatures of filth and evil. 
The demon lord chafes under his current servitude to 
the queen and seeks potential allies to turn the tide 
against his “hostess” and win his freedom.
HUNT’S RETREAT 
Nestled at the midpoint of a hunting path between 
the road bisecting the forest and the cliffs of the 
courts of the shadow fey stands a stone lodge. This is 
Hunt’s Retreat, a haven for the hunters and trappers 
who work the Blackwood and the Forest of the 
Firebirds. It serves as shelter to the weary traveler or 
lost soul wandering the woods, but it carries dangers 
of its own. The Black Prince lodges here during his 
hunting excursions, and the powerful fey lord of the 
Wild Hunt, the Lord of the Hunt, camps with his 
retinue just outside the retreat before sounding the 
horn and charging into the forest. 
SABLE COURT 
The Sable Court is a small forest court, nestled in 
tree branches high above the dark Sable Forest floor, 
built into and around the trunks of great shadow 
oaks. While it resembles a high elven forest dwelling, 
the Sable Court reminds the local inhabitants 
(particularly the Ladies of Nightbrook Court) of 
their place as vassals of the queen. Appointed by the 
Queen of Night and Magic, Baroness Yleira the Swift 
oversees the shadow fey and the hounds of this court. 
The Sable Court can be reached only by flight, aerial 
magic, a dangerous climb in the sight-line—and 
bowshot—of the forest sentries, or the series of lifts 
manned at all times by shadow fey guardians. 
The Sable Court serves as the base of operations 
and training ground for the shadow fey forest 
hunters. Those shadow fey unfit for life in the courts 
or in the more civilized settlements often seek to 
join the hunters. Deadly assassins, forest guides, and 
iron‑tough trailblazers all rise from the ranks of the 
forest hunters.
Court of One Million Stars
Ruler: Prince Valendan (N male selang, see Tome of 
Beasts, archmage)
Important Personages: Cylentha the Silver Mistress 
(LG deva); First Consort Shemani (CE living star, see 
Creature Codex); Phaerliggath, the dragon of Void 
Reach (NE adult void dragon, see Tome of Beasts); 
Radiant Chancellor Ectius, Ambassador to the Stars (N 
lunar elf radiant lord, see Chapter 9); Second Consort 
Tremanca (CG shadow fey enchantress, see Tome of 
Beasts); Verskas Bright Eye (NG sprite)
Population: 1,850 (900 shadow fey, 300 courtfolk 
halflings, 250 witchlights, 200 celestials, 100 shadow 
goblins, 70 umbral humans, and 30 starry courtiers, or 
living stars)
Great Gods: Gytellisor (patron), Black Goat of the 
Woods, Lada, Sarastra, and Umbeserno
Trade Goods: Star metals, liquid fire, stardust, void 
essences, memory philters, celestial silks and satins, and 
stellar radiances (in order of importance)
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 105 ---
105
Fey Courts and Servitors
WORMWOOD 
In the northernmost quarter of the shadow fey 
domains stands the gate town of Wormwood. It 
guards the road south into the dark woods that 
leads to the courts of the shadow fey and eventually 
to Corremel, keeping away the haunts and ghouls 
of the plains. A formidable wall with stout shadow 
oak gates at the north and south encircles the small 
settlement. The inhabitants of Wormwood are all 
battle-tested soldiers with a few spies and assassins 
thrown into the mix. 
Wormwood also serves as a bulwark against the 
umbral vampires and their minions from Oshragora, 
the City Fallen into Shadow (see Chapter 7). They 
regard travelers with scrutiny and heavy suspicion 
and take a pitch-black view of anyone carrying 
relics from the umbral vampire city without express 
leave of the Queen of Night and Magic or another 
high‑ranking shadow fey noble.
Court of One Million Stars 
Stars and moon rarely shine directly over the Shadow 
Realm. Though often hidden by its dreary sky, stars 
still occasionally gleam in all their glory, and one in 
particular shines bright. Above the cloud cover rests 
the most enigmatic of dark fey gatherings: the Court 
of One Million Stars. Delicate spires of silver and 
pearl spiral up from great discs spun of dreamstuff 
and starlight. Clusters of these floating platforms and 
towers gather, bound by gracefully arching bridges 
forged from moonbeams woven with silver. 
Prince Valendan, a noble selang wizard, rules over 
the Starry Court with an aloof manner and quiet 
wisdom. The prince makes it a point to meet every 
visitor to the court at least once, though few receive 
a second audience. His strange appearance repels 
some, but he is far less bound to chaos or evil than 
most selang.
THE STARRY COURT 
The Starry Court serves as the heart of the Court 
of One Million Stars, a magnificent spire of pearl 
and silver, spiraling like an unicorn’s horn from the 
court’s center and audience chamber. This seven‑sided 
structure of white stone features seven gates, one on 
each of the building’s sides, that lead into a great hall. 
Courtiers cluster around the wings of the chamber 
with those of increasing station closer to the center. 
When present, Prince Valendan sits in the precise 
center, resting upon a tripod seat of silver and silk. 
The spire rising toward the stars houses the prince’s 
personal chambers as well as those of his consorts 
and the other royal figures of the Starry Court. 
Balconies dot the outer surface of the spire, allowing 
a breathtaking view of both the stars above and of the 
surface of the Shadow Realm below. 
A series of magnificent gardens surround the court, 
home to a wide array of plant life from the Shadow 
Realm as well from the mortal world. Walkways of 
crushed pearl trace paths through the central gardens 
and the seven outer gardens. Floating lanterns 
shining with pastel light illuminate the walkways, 
and each outer garden anchors a moonlight bridge, 
leading to another section of the courts. Notably, one 
of the bridges is blackened and shattered, ending a 
few yards from where it begins, destroyed long ago by 
devastating magic. 
Fey from all walks of life visit the Starry Court to 
study illumination magic, the stars, and celestial 
movements. Dark pixie scholars can spend decades 
tracking the movement of a single star, meticulously 
recording every hint of prophecy in anticipation of a 
momentous event—the starfall. 
WHEN THE STARS WALK THE WORLD 
The stars are not just points of light burning in an 
uncaring sky. They are living things of power and 
unfathomable knowledge. When momentous events 
shake the world, a star might deign to leave its bower 
of black velvet and fall to the mortal world or to the 
Shadow Realm. When it lands, it becomes a creature 
of luminous beauty and impenetrable mystery. 
Once in physical form, these starry emissaries 
appear cloaked and hooded, shrouded in a luminous 
aura of starlight. They tend to be aloof, and on the 
rare occasions when they exchange words with 
a supplicant, understanding isn’t guaranteed. 
The emissaries speak in a strange manner, often 
reusing terms, but with vastly different contexts and 
meanings from one part of a statement to the next. 
Magic such as tongues and comprehend languages can 
help but never provides a perfectly clear meaning. 
Even more unsettling, the courtiers believe that 
when such a sojourn ends, the star never leaves 
unaccompanied. Who or what vanishes with the star 
varies with each visit and isn’t always apparent. Such 
starfalls are rare, but at least one emissary from the 
stars remains as a permanent fixture within the Court 
of One Million Stars: First Consort Shemani.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 106 ---
106
Book of Ebon Tides
THE HEAVENS SEEK ANSWERS
The heavens have taken a special interest in the Court 
of One Million Stars. Cylentha the Silver Mistress 
descended to the Shadow Realm nearly 200 years ago 
and has yet to return home. Many believe that she is 
searching for something. She advises Prince Valendan 
who keeps her counsel quite private. Certain courtiers 
would offer a treasure trove of stardust diamonds 
and prophecies of future glory to understand why the 
celestial spends so much time at a court filled with fey 
decadence and void followers. 
When Cylentha isn’t offering advice to the prince, 
she spends most of her time in her observatory. 
This unadorned platform holds no gardens nor 
decorations of any kind. Seven blue-white balls of 
light, like miniature stars, surround the observatory, 
which appears as a round building surmounted by a 
dome of iridescent pearl. Inside, the dome allows a 
perfect view of any star, every far-flung celestial cloud 
or nebula, and the farthest reaches of the utterdark, 
perhaps even offering a glimpse into the Void. 
WHISPERS FROM THE VOID 
The Starry Court reaches toward the stars, but that 
necessitates drawing close to the cold, vast emptiness 
between the heavenly lights. In that endless nothing, 
ancient things stir and whisper their secrets. A 
careless or foolish investigator can tap into those 
whispers and glean their secrets, but such knowledge 
of course has its price. The Void seeks to spread its 
influence just as the Shadow Realm has, but it has 
a more difficult time finding purchase in the world. 
Despite the Void’s destructive influence, Prince 
Valendan hasn’t forbidden study of its magic yet, 
though he takes an interest in anyone who seeks it. 
One of the more recent and momentous visitors 
to the Court of One Million Stars, the void dragon 
Phaerliggath, is from the cold dark beyond the stars. 
This hoary old wyrm has long drifted within the 
utterdark, and like all of his ilk, he has seen far too 
much of it. The dragon’s mind has very much frayed. 
Phaerliggath claimed an entire spire of the Starry 
Court when he arrived and rarely emerges from his 
commandeered lair. The spire, once magnificent, now 
crumbles and falls into decay and is called Voidreach. 
Phaerliggath entertains visitors from time to time, but 
only those guests truly captivated by the Void ever visit 
a second time. Phaerliggath seems disturbingly willing 
to share the forbidden secrets of the Void with those 
brave or unhinged enough to seek him out. 
Lady Cylentha makes occasional visits to the 
dragon’s tower, and investigates anyone who speaks 
with the dragon. She is polite during such inquiries, 
but won’t take no as an answer to her questioning. 
THE SPIRAL-DOWNS 
While enclaves of the Court of One Million Stars 
dot the skies above the Shadow Realm, the largest 
concentration of starry courtiers live in a group of 
spires known as the Spiral-Downs. Connected to the 
Starry Court by a moon bridge, the Spiral-Downs 
are connected platforms that hang in the sky, joined 
by moonlight bridge staircases, forming a spiral of 
ascending status and power. The lowest and largest 
platform houses the largest residential spires where 
courtiers of the lowest station reside. Each ascending 
platform is slightly smaller, more ornate, and houses 
fewer residents than the platform below it. The 
loftiest platform boasts verdant gardens, ethereal 
music, delicate spires spun of starlight and dreams, 
and the elite of the Starry Court. 
RISING ABOVE 
Visiting the Court of One Million Stars is no easy 
task. Unseen paths lead to it from the surface, paths 
nearly impossible to decipher without an invitation 
or a guide. Occasionally a witchlight chooses to 
lead a pilgrim from the Shadow Realm up to the 
stars, leaving a trail of glittering light that somehow 
remains solid during the climb. 
Shadow fey wizards speak in hushed tones of star 
bridges that appear only in certain locations of the 
Shadow Realm and only during certain sidereal 
alignments. Rare glimpses of the stars through the 
realm’s gloomy sky can offer such an illuminated 
mind enough insight to calculate where and when 
such a bridge will open next. 
Each path to the Court of One Million Stars ends 
at a gatehouse where warriors of the court guard 
against hostile incursions from the surface. The 
most formidable of these gatehouses, Vigil, stands 
unblinking over the only path leading from the surface 
to the Starry Court. Vigil appears as a hovering disc 
of tightly fitted tiles. A gate of spun silver, seemingly 
delicate but nearly indestructible, bars both the 
entrance from the surface and the bridge to the Starry 
Court. Twisted spires like horns defend the disc’s edge, 
and a bronze dome in the center provides shelter for 
the wardens. The gate wardens, the fiercest warriors 
among the court, closely question any newcomers.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 107 ---
107
Fey Courts and Servitors
Court of Pale Roses 
Home to an enormous community of wyrd gnomes, 
the Court of Pale Roses is young by fey standards, 
steeped in magic and open to a degree of civil relations 
between shadow fey, wyrd gnomes, and umbral 
humans. With a tolerant ruler and open doors, 
the place is home to many, with occasional visits 
by tiefling arcanists, quickstep duelists, and even 
bearfolk druids who share the secrets of their groves 
with this fey court but no other. Its ruler is King Frulio 
Cornutus, a young and vigorous shadow fey whose 
obsession with arcane workings and enchantments 
brings him many followers—and those who pretend 
to some arcane knowledge but whose true purpose is 
spying for weakness at the court.
Gardens of Illusion. Illusion seeds (see Chapter 
10) grow in great profusion in the court’s namesake 
gardens, watered by chill, dark buckets of half-frozen 
water draw up from the Somering Well, a planar 
spring with great powers of fertility and growth. 
This connection runs through a root of Yggdrasil 
somewhere underneath the court itself, and only the 
shadow fey and a few trusted gnomes know where to 
find it. The gardens themselves are warded by magic 
and watched by a group of shadow fey guards sworn 
to the king, called the Rose Guard.
The Young King’s Fancies. The young King Frulio 
is wooing the puckish Lady Vindesol of the Linden 
Tree, an elf maid from the Summer Lands with a love 
of birds and fine embroidery. He is also a frequent 
visitor to the halls of the cat-goddess Ailuros, and 
some say he is Ailuros’s favored king among the fey. 
He has commissioned prayers, scents, and holidays 
for the cat goddess. 
King Frulio enjoys putting on great festivals 
combined with shows of strength, arranged by 
General Murena, a wyrd gnome with an eye for a keen 
warrior. The king lavishes praise on his alchemists and 
gardeners alike, who both add to the court’s growing 
reputation, and he has founded the Royal College 
Alchemical, a place for the study of natural philosophy 
with an emphasis on botany, enchantments, and 
philters and potions.
Cultish Fervor. From time to time, the Court of 
Pale Roses seems overtaken with some new fashion: 
clothes, a particular cantrip, a fashionable memory 
philter (see Chapter 10). At the moment, the cult of 
the Void, as proclaimed by the satarre priestess Ellec 
Ish-Vardes, is in vogue, and it is considered elegant 
to at least pretend to know what these doom-ridden 
creatures rattle on about. Most sable elves seem to 
find it amusing more than revelatory, but the satarre 
has brought some tiefling underpriests to aid in 
ministering to the shadow fey and wyrd gnomes. Her 
Court of Pale Roses
Ruler: King Frulio Cornutus, Duke of Roses, Count of 
Spiders, Lord of Illusions, Lord Mayor of Lurgestown, Baron 
of the Void Immaculate (LN shadow fey first servant of 
Hecate, see Tome of Beasts 3)
Important Personages: Alchemist-in-chief Olmed 
Carroso (N human mage); Chancellor of the Royal College 
Alchemical Igo Natterbutt (NG gnomish distiller, see 
Chapter 9); General Flavestor Murena (LE wyrd gnome 
field commander, see Tome of Beasts 3); High Priest 
Vares the Silent (CN shadow fey apostle of Laughing Loki, 
see Tome of Beasts 3); Keeper of Roses, Aiyesh bin Teleros 
(N human druid); Lady Vindesol (CG high elf mage); 
Mistress of the Cloisters Ellec Ish-Vardes (NE satarre first 
servant of Vardesain, see Tome of Beasts 3)
Population: 2,450 (1,300 wyrd gnomes, 600 umbral 
humans, 300 shadow fey, 100 quicksteps, 50 tieflings, 50 
bearfolk, and 50 satarre) 
Great Gods: Hecate (patron), Ailuros, Baccho, Charun, 
and Laughing Loki
Trade Goods: Flowers, weavings, ale, glasswork, and 
ceramics (in order of importance)
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 108 ---
108
Book of Ebon Tides
goal is to establish a direct link to the cold waters of 
the lower branches of Yggdrasil or the River Lethe and 
in time bring the king under her sway (and the court 
with him). She believes that corrupting enough of the 
fey courts will lead to an enormous Great Tide, which 
will sweep away all settlements and indeed all land in 
the realm, leaving formless chaos and pure Void.
Court of Sparrows
A minor court owing fealty to the much more 
extensive Court of Mice and Ravens, the Court of 
Sparrows is a tan stone stronghold that has taken 
a recent turn. It began as a whimsical or at least 
polite court, founded by courtfolk halflings breeding 
sparrows, ducks, geese, and chickens for royal 
banquets—a place of jesters, farts, and jugglers—and 
visitors came for the cuisine and entertainment. The 
castellan was Traverty Peaseblossom, a courtfolk 
halfling bard widely loved by both his people and his 
poultry.
Change of Rulers. A few years ago though, the 
court was stormed and overtaken by King Marrow, a 
trollkin warlord with a company of intimidating and 
ruthless followers, including trollkin, bearfolk, and 
a few umbral humans. They’ve made it their home 
base and retained the halflings, and their arrows are 
now fletched with extremely fine goose feathers. 
Prince Peaseblossom fled via a secret passageway 
somewhere in the castle, and he may now be a 
wandering minstrel at another court entirely.
The place’s change of ownership was not marked 
(as would be traditional) by a change of name to, say, 
the Court of Trolls or Court of Hammers. Being not 
quite bright enough to rename the place has worked 
out well for King Marrow though, and so long as 
the eggs and ducks and other foodstuffs flow to the 
nearby courts of the major fey, no one seems to mind 
who is in charge. 
King Marrow also raids the shadow roads and hunts 
in the Queen’s Forest, all the while eating a great 
many eggs. The halflings now in the role of servants 
sometimes creep away to seek service elsewhere, but 
for many of them, having a great big trollkin warlord 
“in charge” saves them from a lot of tedious diplomacy 
and bootlicking of the shadow fey snobs, sable elf 
visitors, and greedy umbral human merchants.
Duck Eggs and Diplomacy. The lady castellan, the 
master of wands, and the commander of foot are 
Marrow’s captains of trollkin soldiers, trollkin wands, 
and bearfolk heavy infantry, respectively. However, a 
considerable degree of power is shifting to the Royal 
Keeper of Ducks, Mardovac the Foul, who happens to 
be Marrow’s son and heir. Mardovac is charged with 
wringing every ducat out of the courtfolk halflings and 
their flocks of ducks and geese, and he seems to have 
Court of Sparrows
Ruler: The Undefeated King Marrow of the Court of 
Sparrows, Bondsman of King Reynard, and Commander 
of the Greenwood Company (NE trollkin field 
commander, see Tome of Beasts 3)
Important Personages: Commander of Foot 
Sventonna the Quick (LN bearfolk gladiator); Lady 
Castellan Grinholda (CN trollkin shaman, see Creature 
Codex); Master of Protocol Hithbert Humbervale (LN 
courtfolk halfling merchant captain, see Tome of 
Beasts 3); Master of Wands Ardinaldo the Clever (CE 
human battle mage, see Creature Codex); Royal 
Keeper of Ducks Mardovac the Foul (CG trollkin bandit 
lord, see Tome of Beasts); Soothsayer to His Majesty 
and Court Healer Ploofi Flatfoot (CE shadow goblin 
apostle of Santerr Marossa, see Tome of Beasts 3)
Population: 800 (300 courtfolk halflings, 200 bearfolk, 
130 trollkin, 100 shadow goblins, and 70 umbral humans)
Great Gods: Laughing Loki (patron), Bengta, the 
Hunter, Santerr Marossa, and Umbeserno
Trade Goods: Duck eggs, duck meat, chickens, goose 
feathers, fletching, fine yew wood, small woodwork, and 
salt meat (in order of importance)
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 109 ---
109
Fey Courts and Servitors
a greater knack for that than thievery and ambuscade. 
So while the elder captains thrive on banditry, 
Mardovac keeps amassing coins and power among 
the trollkin and halflings. Meanwhile, Hithbert, the 
master of protocol, sends useful diplomatic notes to 
King Reynard. 
The fey lord of the Court of Mice and Ravens 
finds the entire situation vastly amusing, though if a 
shipment of fresh duck ever arrives at his halls late, 
he will surely come to pay a visit to King Marrow in 
person, as “one ruler to another,” and perhaps install 
his own, more trustworthy vassal. Or he might just 
stay a while—until the eggs run out entirely.
Court of the Moonlit King
This court was once part of a dual crown with 
Ludomir as its king and Sarastra his wife and 
co‑ruler. However, with the Moonlit King’s descent 
into strange magic and times of pure fantasy unlinked 
to the facts of the Shadow Realm, most of his 
followers drifted away—and the crown with them. All 
that remains of the Court of the Moonlit King is a set 
of names, spells, philters, titles, a handful of servitors, 
including lunar devils (see Tome of Beasts) and 
quicksteps (see Creature Codex). His old lone tower 
and labyrinth still stand, and various small groups 
(or shards) of followers and friends remain loyal, 
including hundreds of followers among the bearfolk, 
lunar elves, minotaurs, and erina who seek to restore 
the king’s title and cast down Sarastra, so the Moonlit 
King may shine once more. Currently, this means 
they are building a new and highly magical court in 
the skies, the first major new court in some time.
The Labyrinth of Moonlight. The Court of the 
Moonlit King was once found in the King’s Tower 
at the center of a frequently changing maze, which 
still exists and is inhabited by eye golems, lantern 
dragonettes, witchlights, shadow goblins, and more. 
However, because this maze is surrounded by the 
territory of the Queen of Night and Magic, it has been 
largely abandoned as a seat of rulership. The Moonlit 
King maintains an embassy there to landbound fey 
but has proclaimed his new domain is “the sky and 
the moon and all the territory they touch.”
A Wandering Court. The Court of the Moonlit King 
is currently nomadic, wandering over vast distances 
and often keeping its people together by the most 
tenuous of messengers, code phrases, and meeting 
points. The lesser lunar devils (see Chapter 9) 
sometimes carry small fey, quicksteps, and others 
from these cloud fortresses to the earth and forests, 
but just as often, they use luminous staircases at 
radiant wells to ascend or descend, or they ride 
griffons or use flying spells and cloaks of the raven (see 
Chapter 10) to travel from earth to sky. The Court of 
the Moonlit King is one of high magic and mystery, 
and clearly the restored King is gathering power and 
increasing his number of followers month by month.
Alliance with the Minotaurs. With the Court of the 
Moonlit King now mobile and active, striking out for 
new sources of power and bending radiant wells into 
luminous cloud palaces, it has become easier for his 
ambassadors and loyal followers to gather allies. The 
strongest of these are the minotaurs of the mortal 
world, who revere the moon and her champions. 
The cloud-palace of the Moonlit King is a place best 
known as a rumor more than as a place that many 
have visited. The king’s newfound power from radiant 
wells intrigues all shadow mages and those who study 
illumination magic, but its details are scarce. 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 110 ---
110
Book of Ebon Tides
The Singing Tower. The tall white tower of the 
court is unmistakable, and at most hours of the day, 
a slow, low howling can be heard from it. These are 
the wails and moans of Queen Kalaslurr, whose 
voice draws in and slowly devours any visitors she 
finds entertaining. Rumors claim that these are 
sometimes old lovers and at other times foes, rivals, 
or simply those whose appearance she finds pleasing. 
She is easy to gain audience with, but her attention 
is difficult to survive as the distant moan is a song of 
terror when heard within the tower. 
The queen’s servants among the wyrd gnomes are 
often made deaf by her song, or they (so it is said) 
destroy their own eardrums to better serve her. The 
only servant who has no fear of the queen’s dire 
singing is the bearfolk bard Umberell, for he has long 
since learned the knack of a counter song. He will 
teach this to any bard or talented singer who seems 
trustworthy and honest.
The Demon’s Hall. A black stone binds seven 
ice demons who serve Queen Kalaslurr without 
hesitation, tearing apart foes, fetching gentian 
flowers from alpine meadows, or threatening 
travelers for tolls or information. They are her hands, 
bringing her interesting news, a talented cook, or 
a worthy morsel of mountain goat. The demons 
are named First Hand, Second Hand, All Thumbs, 
Wicked Frost, Silver Eye, Little Cook, and Wanderer.
Frost Bogie Workshop. The smallest and strangest 
of the inhabitants of the court are the ice bogies (see 
Tome of Beasts 2), small snow fey who obey any order 
given to them by anyone but who positively worship 
the ice demons and the keeper of scrolls and keeper 
of song, as well as the queen, the chamberlain, and 
the queen’s champion Illebor. When not fetching 
ale or collecting pine nuts from the forest, they 
often carve small wooden trinkets, card and spindle 
woolen yarn, or clean and tan furs of fox, rabbit, 
ermine, and beaver.
Dalliance 
Where the Nightbrook spills into the River Lethe, 
Dalliance sits like a fat but happy leech. Its people 
make their living as traders for forest dwellers and 
trappers and, for the Court of Night and Magic and 
the Court of Roses, as woodsmen and occasional 
hunters. The water fey from Nightbrook Court 
sometimes visit with dark philters in hand, and it 
is sometimes host to a goblin troupe of actors or 
Court of the Moonlit King
Ruler: Ludomir Imbrium the XVI, the Moonlit King 
(see Tome of Beasts)
Important Personages: His Radiance, Popplan 
Lusteron, the Minotaur (LN minotaur archmage) 
Population: 2,200 (1,000 shadow fey, 400 
minotaurs, 300 bearfolk, 300 erina, 100 lunar elves, 50 
quicksteps, and 50 wyrd gnomes) 
Great Gods: Hecate (patron), Ailuros, Bengta, 
Charun, and Valeros
Trade Goods: Silver jewelry, moonstones, sweet 
moonlit wine, lunar magic, and illumination magic  
(in order of importance)
Court of Winter’s Love 
The coldest and most desolate of the fey courts is the 
Court of Winter’s Love, ruled by Kalaslurr, the Lady 
of Ash and Sorrow, a ghost whose touch and voice 
destroy most mortals who meet her. The court itself 
is home to ice bogies and snow maidens, various ice 
demons, and a thriving community of quicksteps, 
who all seem immune to the fey lady’s song and 
terrifying presence. Most of the court’s inhabitants 
stay far away from its ruler—other than the devoted 
shades of Kalaslurr, her ghostly court of undead 
courtiers, all of whom are immune to her deadly 
presence. The head chamberlain, Porthan, is also the 
chief priest of Charun and one of the few voices that 
the queen considers when deciding where to send 
her demons next.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 111 ---
111
Fey Courts and Servitors
jugglers. However, the small town’s real wealth 
comes from trading pleasure, games of chance, and 
debauched entertainments to anyone willing to pay. 
Three pleasure houses—the River House, the Red 
Door, and the Cat’s Paw—are fine, stone-walled 
manors that cater to anyone and everyone, from 
the most straightforward hunter seeking wine and 
friendly companions to the dissolute gnome princes 
who demand exotic entertainments. Any bit of 
intoxication and any form of company is available if 
Court of Winter’s Love
Ruler: Queen Kalaslurr (LE ghost), Lady of Ash and 
Sorrow, Keening Mother of the North, Mistress of Snows, 
Keeper of the Winter Gate, Friend to the Seven Hands 
of Ice
Important Personages: Chief Duelist and 
Champion to the Queen, Illebor Circon (LE quickstep, 
see Creature Codex); High Priestess Silloon Honeyeater 
(CN shadow fey priest of Bengta); Keeper of the Scrolls 
Tikkaw Tokkaw (N ravenfolk doom croaker, see 
Tome of Beasts); Lord of Illusions and Keeper of Song 
Umberell Tumwater (NG bearfolk merchant captain, 
see Tome of Beasts 3); Master of the Hunt Arros Freor 
(NE human keeper of hounds, see Chapter 9); Most 
Devout Steward and Head Chamberlain Porthan Villeros 
(LE shade apostle of Charun, see Tome of Beasts 3)
Population: 1,350 (400 shadow fey, 350 quicksteps, 200 
wyrd gnomes, 200 umbral humans, 50 snow maidens, 50 
bearfolk, 50 ice bogies, and 50 shades) 
Great Gods: Hecate (patron), Ailuros, Alquam, Baccho, 
and Charun
Trade Goods: Ice, sunstones, fine furs, and woolen yarn 
(in order of importance)
Dalliance
Ruler: Lady of Whims and Fancies, Her Divine 
Debauchery, Baroness Lupina Valdross (LE shadow 
fey enchantress, see Tome of Beasts), Matron of the 
Red Door
Important Personages: Lady of Small Mercies, 
Viscountess Ellana Hibiscalla (CG human spy); Master 
of Coin Tristoffos Illemartos (LE shadow fey knight 
of the road, see Creature Codex); Master of Shades 
Lord Correto Anders (LE human mage); Matron of the 
Cat’s Paw, Meli Hawthorne (N wyrd gnome merchant 
captain, see Tome of Beasts 3)
Population: 5,300 (1,900 shadow goblins, 1,500 
shadow fey, 1,300 umbral humans, 400 wyrd gnomes, 
180 quicksteps, and 20 shades)
Great Gods: Baccholon (patron), Ailuros, Charun, 
Hecate, and Santerr Illosi
Trade Goods: Furs, timber, requiem, wine, and brandy 
(in order of importance)
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 112 ---
112
Book of Ebon Tides
one asks the right house and offers a fat coin purse. 
This is a well-known secret, but Dalliance is famous 
for keeping its secrets very well hidden. Whatever goes 
on behind the walls and doors does not leave town.
Shades and Requiem. Master of Shades, Lord 
Correto Anders, keeps a string of ghosts, haunts, 
and shades of various kinds working for him to 
bring requiem from Soriglass to Dalliance. The 
addictive, soul-bending substance is combined with 
other pleasures of the flesh in ways best left to the 
completely debauched customers of the small River 
House where it is offered.
Blackmail and Extortion. While most of Dalliance 
is honest in its whoring and pleasure seeking, Master 
of Coin Tristoffos is a spymaster and a blackmailer 
of umbral humans, shadow fey, and shadow goblins 
alike. He pays extremely well for gossip, for news, 
and for well-founded speculation. He is most often 
found questioning the staff at the Red Door, which 
leads some to believe his information is first and 
foremost for Baroness Lupina’s ear. Very few who 
share information with Tristoffos are willing to share 
information about a client’s personal secrets though, 
only about their political aims, their religious quirks, 
or their business ventures. (Which is certainly still 
enough to keep Tristoffos in business.)
The River Spirits. The waters near Dalliance are 
quite active with water fey, including river spirits (see 
Chapter 9), shadow river lords (see Creature Codex), 
and rusalka (see Tome of Beasts). They are led by a 
lorelei (see Tome of Beasts) in love with various fey at 
various times, who sings in the brightest moonlight 
and welcomes gifts from suitors as well as songs and 
poems from bards and passing travelers. In return for 
song and elegance, she provides safe passage along the 
Dalliance stretch of the river as far as Corremel.
Langmire’s Court
A minor court popular among young fey gentlemen, 
Langmire’s Court is full of gamblers, secret lovers, 
and indolent wastrels, very loosely owing fealty to the 
Court of Winter’s Love. The court itself has dozens 
of small outbuildings, but three great halls are at 
its heart. Gnomes, halflings, and shadow goblins 
all serve as cooks, maids, and house servants in a 
constant bustle of servile attention—and they also 
take most of the profits at the end of the day.
Long Hall. While the whole sometimes resembles 
a bacchanalian festival at night, by day, Long Hall is 
a bright, smelly place with flaking black paint on the 
walls and a crew of hardworking halflings clearing 
away the mess and preparing some extravagant 
display of flowers, scenery for a musical play, or some 
similar entertainments. The gambling here begins 
at moonrise and continues into the morning with 
vast sums of coin, magic, and even land and entire 
mansions frequently wagered. The Lord of Misrule, 
Oshlan the Chef, prepares the entertainments, 
hires singers, brings in flocks of trained birds, and 
Langmire’s Court
Ruler: Lord of Misrule Oshlan the Chef (NE halfling 
bandit lord, see Tome of Beasts)
Important Personages: Keeper of Cards Phildra 
VII (LE tiefling mage); Keeper of the Dice Naldos 
Even‑Handed (LN human bandit captain); Sister Fox 
(CN shadow fey priest of Loki)
Population: 3,800 (1,300 umbral humans, 800 
shadow fey, 600 shadow goblins, 600 halflings, and 500 
wyrd gnomes)
Great Gods: Laughing Loki (patron), Ailuros, Charun, 
Hecate, and Santerr Illosi
Trade Goods: Carved bone dice, inscribed books 
and cards, inks, hides, gold ingots, herbs and potions, 
woolen and linen cloth, and leather goods (in order of 
importance)
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 113 ---
113
Fey Courts and Servitors
generally makes Long Hall a wonderland for the 
wealthy and foolish to spend their coin. Rumor has 
it that Oshlan owns the entire estate of several young 
shadow fey nobles and holds the keys to mansions in 
Corremel, Merrymead, and Fandeval as well.
Loki’s Golden Hall. Perhaps the largest shrine to 
Laughing Loki found anywhere, this somewhat 
garish wooden temple features gilded pillars, silver 
nets, and a statue of the god himself in a pose of 
mirth and good spirits. The statue changes its poses 
from time to time in a series of minor miracles (or 
the shaping work of the priests and jokers who 
maintain the shrine—some believe they have a series 
of five or more statues displayed at various times). 
A small number of priests here serve as entertainers 
and gossips as often as they minister to the spirits 
of those who have lost everything gambling with 
cards or dice, and their green and golden cloaks are a 
common sight in the Long Hall where they are often 
asked to bless dice or pray with those who hazard 
enormous sums in Loki’s name. 
Servant’s Hall. This is home to the wyrd gnomes, 
halflings, and shadow goblins who truly keep 
Langmire running. Family life, weaving, cooking, 
and instruction for the young of the court are all 
part of Servant’s Hall. Visitors are rarely brought 
in. The main doorway is guarded by two gargoyles 
instructed to stop anyone taller than a shadow goblin 
from entering.
Nightbrook
A minor court owing fealty to the Court of Night 
and Magic, Nightbrook Court occupies a hunched 
building of stone and black wood in the Sable Forest. 
The structure resembles a temple more than a seat of 
nobility, and strange glyphs adorn its walls and domed 
roof. It stands at the headwaters of the Nightbrook, 
a small black waterway that eventually joins the River 
Lethe. The shadow fey of Nightbrook Court seem 
strangely at home on the Shadow Realm’s waters. 
They live and work along the Nightbrook, offering 
passage on small boats or rafts from one shore to the 
other or even downriver to another settlement—for a 
price, of course. The vengeful spirits that swarm in the 
black rivers seem indifferent to them, though none 
outside the court’s confines know why. 
Three sisters rule Nightbrook Court: shadow fey 
women with sour expressions and back-curving 
horns. Their wiry, long black hair bears a streak of 
white in their otherwise midnight tresses. Despite 
their perpetual glowers, the Ladies of Nightbrook—
Analissa, Verousha, and Lyssalyn—welcome guests 
with surprisingly warm hospitality, particularly 
mortal guests. The sisters are, in truth, a coven of 
night hags. They work tirelessly to locate black-
hearted people whose dreams they can haunt, 
hounding the hapless victims to death, so they can 
steal their evil souls. They bring these souls to the 
headwaters of the Nightbrook, and in a dark ritual 
that requires a memory philter (see Chapter 10) 
holding emotions of loss, longing, rage, or bitterness, 
they twist the souls into hungry shades. Once infused 
with those hollow emotions, the ladies pour the souls 
out of their soul bags into the river to join the others. 
These souls draw the memories from those they 
drown and carry them back to the sisters. 
Good-hearted visitors to Nightbrook Court 
have no fear of being murdered for their souls, but 
their memories remain at risk. The ladies require a 
constant supply of appropriate memories to create 
Nightbrook Court
Rulers: Ladies of Nightbrook—Analissa, Verousha, 
and Lyssalyn (NE night hag priests of Hecate)
Important Personages: Master Shipwright 
Regunn Vorbeck (LN human merchant captain, see 
Tome of Beasts 3)
Population: 100 (50 shadow fey and 50 shadow 
goblins)
Great Gods: Charun (patron), Alquam, Black Goat of 
the Woods, Hecate, and Santerr Illosi
Trade Goods: Boats and timber, herbs and potions, 
woolen and linen cloth, memory philters, and leather 
goods (in order of importance)
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 114 ---
114
Book of Ebon Tides
their spectral spies. If they can bargain or purchase 
such memories from mortal visitors, so much the 
better, but they aren’t above helping circumstances 
along to create the memories they require. Perhaps 
a husband chokes to death on his sumptuous (and 
cursed or poisoned) dinner in the court’s dining hall, 
and the sisters offer to soothe his widow’s anguish by 
taking the memory from her. 
Tower of Horn and Gold 
High in the peaks of the Mistcall Mountains west of 
the courts of the shadow fey, where gray snow falls 
like ash from a pyre, an ancient tower broods—the 
Tower of Horn and Gold. So high its apex scrapes 
the perpetual cloud cover, the tower’s black stone is 
hewn from the mountains, though it takes its name 
from the cladding adorning it. Rows of great, curving 
horns jut from the tower’s surface, giving it a wicked, 
serrated silhouette. Beneath these foreboding 
trophies, shadow-mined gold bands the stone. The 
metal, a wavering blend of gleaming yellow and 
Tower of Horn and Gold 
Ruler: Kaedrin Blackwing, Commander of Horn 
and Gold (see Tome of Beasts 2)
Important Personages: Nest Matron and 
Eldest Weaver Cuilliarna (elder shadow drake, see 
Tome of Beasts), Sir Parnath the Golden, Captain of 
the Knights of Horn (LE shadow fey wyvern knight, 
see Creature Codex)
Population: 600 (400 shadow goblins, 150 shadow 
fey, 50 shadow drakes) 
Great Gods: Sarastra (patron), Anu-Akma, 
Gytellisor, the Hunter, and Santerr Marossa
Trade Goods: Shadow gold
pitch‑black, gives the tower a striated appearance that 
both catches and absorbs any stray beam of light. 
The tower represents one of the oldest remnants 
of the shadow fey’s first incursion into darkness 
in their desperate bid to remain powerful. While it 
commands one of the best vantage points in all the 
Shadow Realm, the Tower of Horn and Gold is no 
mere watchtower. It protects a cleft in the mountains, 
leading to tunnels that have never seen a single mote 
of light. Shadow drakes have long lived and died in 
these caverns, and they maintain a loose, tenuous 
alliance with the fey occupying the tower. In exchange 
for the drakes’ defense of the tower and occasional 
service as messengers or mounts to the high-ranking 
knights, the shadow fey have given the drakes leave to 
hunt in the surrounding lands. Most important, the 
shadow fey mine the tunnels for the elusive shadow 
gold veins that run through them. The drakes take a 
generous share of the yield. 
Shadow gold is in many ways the same as the gold 
mined in mortal lands, but it holds the essence of 
shadow within it. Most of the goblins here mine and 
smelt the metal without pause or holiday, for the 
shadow fey and drakes require it (while the others 
maintain the tower and prepare the food, clothes, and 
tools for the goblin miners and fey knights). In its raw 
form, shadow gold appears as a mottled mix of gold 
and black. When the metal is cast or forged and then 
polished, its color and luster become indistinguishable 
from normal gold. Only when the metal is molten, 
nicked, bent, or scratched is its true nature revealed. 
Any damage to the metal shows the shadow within. 
The shadow fey mint coins of shadow gold and trade 
it generously to mortals in payment or bribery. It is 
said that with each shadow gold coin one accepts from 
the fey, one loses a bit more of one’s will and soul to 
them. Greed remains a powerful force, and shadow fey 
diplomats, emissaries, and spies liberally buy whatever 
and whoever they need with the tainted coins. 
Witch Queen’s Court
The Court of Nicnevin, more often called the Court 
of the Witch Queen, stands high on a windswept 
mountain and is a place of somewhat dangerous 
repute. While the court itself is in a sheltered valley 
in the mountain’s foothills, Nicnevin’s abode is 
somewhere under the mountain itself, where she 
spends the nights of a full moon. The court’s strange 
halls include not just beautiful, spiral-pillared dancing 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 115 ---
115
Fey Courts and Servitors
chambers and hearths filled with herbal, steam-
laden cauldrons but also active mines, smelters and 
chimneys, and forges for copper, silver, and iron. The 
Witch Queen’s interests are many and varied, and 
her followers include a surprisingly large number of 
umbral humans and bearfolk as well as fey.
Long Halls and Eternal Cauldrons. The Court of 
the Witch Queen is built with mountain storms and 
snows in mind, with enormous timbers holding up 
a slate roof and extending deep into the mountains. 
Some of its long halls resemble stave churches of 
the mortal Northlands. Others are more akin to the 
onion domes of the east or the simple turf huts of the 
plains. In each great hall boils a cauldron, usually for 
a stew but occasionally for magic working, potions, 
and the distillation of souls and essences. A pair of 
elderly women, human or alseid, is often tasked with 
stirring, heating, and maintaining the cauldron for 
a period of time, always taking turns to deliver a fine 
meal or a well-turned potion to one of the hags or 
shadow fey who decide each cauldron’s next purpose.
Refuge for Humans and Dwarves. The fey ruler 
herself depends on umbral humans and dwarves 
far more than most fey lords and ladies, and she 
welcomes hags, alseids, and many others to her 
mountain eyrie. In return, they show great loyalty 
to Nicnevin, often creating works of magic for her 
court. The Dolorous Mountain is known as one of the 
few active iron mines in the region, and access to cold 
iron weapons and armor gives the court an important 
advantage in dealing with other fey courts. Even the 
Witch Queen’s Court
Ruler: Nicnevin, Queen of Witches (see Tome of 
Beasts) and Lady of the Dolorous Mountain, Mistress of 
the Moonsilver Ring, Keeper of the Cauldron, and patron 
of hags, witches, and hedge wizards 
Important Personages: Cauldron Maker and 
Master Smith Clagrieda Ironborn (LN dwarven 
ringmage, see Tome of Beasts); First of the Night Hags, 
Utarna Terrosi (NE night hag); Potion Mistress Jingalla 
Portana (NE human mage)
Population: 2,100 (600 umbral humans, 500 shadow 
fey, 400 shadow goblins, 250 dwarves, 100 alseid, 100 
ravenfolk, 100 quicksteps, and 50 various hags)
Great Gods: Hecate (patron), Ailuros, Alquam, 
Baccholon, and Kupkoresh
Trade Goods: Copper, herbs, fine woven cloth, wool, 
crystals, iron, and dyes (in order of importance)
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 116 ---
116
Book of Ebon Tides
iron arrows that the Witch Queen’s followers are 
known for are quite valuable to assassins in Corremel 
or duelists in Dalliance.
Crystal and Copper, Herbals and Charms. The Witch 
Court is a practical one compared to many. Nicnevin 
seeks followers to dig out valuable crystals, ores, 
and stone from the mountain (dwarves and umbral 
humans), to gather herbs and roots from the river 
valleys (ravenfolk and alseids and shadow goblins), 
and to enchant potions, charms, and trinkets that 
strengthen and sustain her followers.
Fallen Courts 
Over the eons of fey rule in the Shadow Realm, many 
rulers have fallen into oblivion, living on only in songs and 
legends. Others built such fine halls and castles that they 
were rebuilt and transformed into newer halls when a new 
dynasty ascended to power. And a few were abandoned, 
though their halls remain as sites where dark magic is 
worked, where curses still linger, or where furtive plotters 
gather against some foe. These fallen courts are well-
remembered and still visited from time to time.
Blackwolf’s Court. A notorious court for warmongers, 
tournaments, duels, and deeds of prowess, Blackwolf’s 
Court was one of the few fey courts ruled by a quickstep, 
Prince Blackwolf, who gathered a group of powerful 
shadow fey, a horde of shadow goblins, and a particularly 
talented human wizard named Onri Farromir, the Mage 
Prince. These masters of nocturnal combat and strategic 
dueling overthrew the Nightbrook Court and ruled it 
independently of the Court of Night and Magic for more 
than 25 years, teaching sword skills and banditry to 
anyone who swore allegiance. Blackwolf was eventually cut 
down by Reynard, the Fox Lord of the Court of Mice and 
Ravens, who kept Nightbrook for a time, until the tides 
drifted too far, and he gave it then as a gift to Sarastra.
Botethar’s Court. A court of the shadow goblins under 
King Botethar, it is remembered both for its astonishing 
lunar towers and astrological hexes as well as for its 
employment of dwarven masons, rarely seen in the 
Shadow Realm and likely brought to build Botethar’s tallest 
and most ambitious temple spires to Hecate. 
Court of Drizzling Fire. This was a court of dancers 
who wove enchantment through movement and conjured 
both cold fire and impossibly potent enchantments in 
this school of patterned, dual-casting ritual magic. All 
its secrets were lost when the site was long ago overrun 
by the darakhul. The remaining elements became the 
foundation stones of Gloomhaven. The last rulers of the 
Court of Drizzling Fire were Her Grace Tommika Telanni, 
a shadow fey countess, and her consort, His Grace 
Ondros Paraselli. Some believe the pair became darakhul 
themselves and rule again in the Twilight Empire.
Court of Knives. One of the stranger fallen courts, 
the Court of Knives was founded by an esoteric sect of 
dwarven ringmages and grew into a place of smithing 
and wizardry—where quickstep duelists paid great 
sums for enchanted moon steel, where shadow fey 
enchanters sought out particularly well-made rings and 
bracers, and where ravenfolk warriors bought axes that 
could cleave stone or steel alike. The king and master 
smith was a dwarf named Olbert the Lame, a twisted 
and thin‑bearded fellow who some said was a son of 
Volund, the smith‑god. The court fell into ruin when 
Olbert refused to sell a vorpal shortsword to a prince of 
the shadow fey, despite being offered a king’s ransom. 
Assassins killed Olbert not long after, and his followers 
fled a plague of wraiths and darakhul.
Court of Silver Words. Once a court of sable elves 
devoted to spoken magic, poetry, and history, the Court 
of Silver Words was a beacon of learning and justly 
famous for a scriptorium that generated both magical 
and mundane books and scrolls. Many of these volumes 
still exist, though many others are lost. The Book of Ebon 
Tides itself was said to have been written here by the last 
ruler of the Court of Silver Words, the young Princess 
Tephanora, who was murdered when the book was stolen 
by shadow goblin rogues said to have taken the volume 
to Fandeval—though it has traveled far afield since. The 
well-carved marble and 
limestone buildings of 
the court still stand, 
and occasional visitors 
leave offerings of honey, 
flowers, candles, flags, 
stones, and small written 
notes at a memorial statue 
of the princess.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 117 ---
Book of Ebon Tides
While the fey courts are among the best-known 
settlements of the Shadow Realm, other races have 
their own strongholds, cities, and even nations here. 
The most significant of these are the strange goblin 
city of Fandeval, the ghost city of Soriglass, and 
the halls of the bearfolk at Merrymead. The darker 
lands include the Twilight Empire of the darakhul, 
the reeking pits of the roachlings on the Whispering 
Plains, and Oshragora, the City Fallen into Shadow. 
Each is described here.
Fandeval, City of Goblins 
The shadow goblin and umbral human population 
of the Shadow Realm is large in number but often 
subservient to shadow fey or darakhul rule. Not 
so in Fandeval, the City of Goblins, a realm of 
strange customs and traditions dating back to 
the establishment of the free city’s goblin rulers, 
including its moon towers, gangsters, and scavengers 
at the mouth of the River Styx.
In the case of Fandeval, the city was granted to the 
Barkwater soothsayers for services rendered to the 
Crow Prince, a fey lord who has since abandoned his 
own court—but his gift is still remembered fondly by 
the shadow goblins. In gratitude, they still carry his 
messages or tokens to Queen Valda in the Court of 
Golden Oaks (see Chapter 6).
Realms Beyond the Courts 
Realms Beyond the Courts 
The Crow Prince & the Goblins
While he ruled, the Crow Prince shared treasures, 
fiefdoms, arcane lore, and more with the ravenfolk, 
shadow goblins, and umbral humans who encouraged 
and supported his work in illusion arcana, in ancient 
shadow roads, and in lunar prophecies and moonlight 
weaving. The shadow goblins were extremely valuable 
in the last of these elements, and the Crow Prince 
rewarded their generosity with his own. The quest 
he now pursues may involve the goblins in some 
form. Occasionally he visits Fandeval to consult its 
soothsayers and scholars.
7
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 118 ---
118
Book of Ebon Tides
Small towers throughout the city are used to shout 
out the hours of moonrise, midday, and moonset as 
well as to watch for signs of fire in the largely wooden 
city. The shadow goblins get their timber from the 
nearby forest, and while most think of the city as 
riverine or swampy, it is just as much a producer of 
barrels and ships and of carts for the shadow roads.
Waterfront. Fandeval itself lies on the Black River 
Styx, and it makes what it can of those waters, in 
boatbuilding and in the very active fishmongers’ 
market and costermongers’ stalls for its freshwater 
oysters. The shadow goblin fortunetellers often 
use fish guts or oyster shells in their soothsaying, 
so their stands also clutter the waterfront, between 
reeking pubs and well-watched warehouses. Despite 
the wider reputation of shadow goblins as lazy and 
thieving, among themselves, they take care to watch 
over their friends and neighbors.
The largest house in the waterfront district is 
Grandfather’s House, for the waterfront of Fandeval 
is controlled by Grandfather Clay Nethersmoke, a 
particularly rotund shadow goblin. His network of 
corrupt lieutenants, dock bosses, watchmen—even 
judges, mooncatchers, and guildmasters—enforces 
the practice of skimming a touch of silver from every 
shipment on every barge. While he is a loyal supporter 
of His Majesty, Grandfather Clay collects a toll from 
the sale of most goods, whether brought through the 
city gates or made within the city, including everything 
from common fish and beer to memory philters, nets, 
and other enchanted goods.
Cat Legion. Among those who patrol the city are 
a group of quite notably quick and lithe catfolk, the 
descendants of visitors from a distant desert land 
who choose to serve the goblin king, Flibbarn, as an 
elite guard and fighting corps. The Cat Legion is fond 
of keeping its privileges as the finest warriors and 
sharpest-eyed bodyguards to His Majesty, and they also 
serve as special messengers and agents of the king’s 
will against the shadow fey, the ghouls, and others. 
Grandfather Clay seems to have some arrangement 
with the legion, for his shops and warehouses are rarely 
disturbed while those of his enemies are sometimes 
shut down and illegal goods confiscated.
Wading Giants. Three river giants (or Styx giants, 
see Chapter 9) make their homes on the eastern 
shore of Fandeval and provide transport both into the 
Shores of the Great  
and Endless Sea
The dark and roiling waters of the sea, churning 
beyond the marshes, are dangerous, and the shadow 
fey, shadow goblins, and umbral humans all know that 
the ebon tides are strong and destructive here, often 
creating reefs or shoals or towering waves. Fishing is a 
dangerous proposition, and most fisherfolk stick to the 
marshes, the river, or the tidal flats. The small Saltworker 
Tribe of shadow goblins uses kettles and timber from 
the Salt Wood to boil away water, creating bushels of 
a fine, dusty, flavorful salt that is sold in Fandeval and 
throughout the Shadow Realm. But no trade extends 
far on the Shade Sea. The rumors of islands somewhere 
beyond the horizon, created by archmagi or called up 
from the depths by great priests of Charun, have never 
borne out. The sea is the limit and boundary of all land 
that the umbral peoples know, and their ships always 
keep to the coastline.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 119 ---
119
Realms Beyond the Courts
Fandeval, the City of Goblins
Ruler: Flibbarn Barkwater, His Majesty the King of All 
Goblins and Master of the Moons, Duke of the Golden 
Field, Baron of the Black Water Fleet, Lord Mayor of 
Fandeval, Potentate of All Tides and Elements, Lord of 
the Cat Legion, and Protector of the Blue Chambers (LE 
shadow goblin moonshadow catcher, see Chapter 9)
Important Personages: Dour Dillos Zanabbe, 
Bargemaster of the Guild (LN halfling bandit lord, see 
Tome of Beasts); Grandfather Clay Nethersmoke, master 
of the docks (LE shadow goblin thief lord, see Creature 
Codex); Her Luminance Salarra Mortre, high priestess 
of Hecate the Silver Goddess (NE human first servant 
of Hecate, see Tome of Beasts 3); Master Shipwright 
Adalbarr Lunkvoll, Guildmaster of the Shipwright’s Guild 
(LN human merchant captain, see Tome of Beasts 
3); Royal Keeper of Cats Jennai Petticlaw (NE shadow 
goblin druid); Royal Netmaker Kotteran the Quick (LN 
shadow goblin scribe, see Chapter 9); Ullestro of 
the Vale, Duke of the Lunar Light (CN sable elf mage); 
Vespilla Fleabite, Luminous Princess and Consort to King 
Flibbarn (LN shadow goblin enchantress, use shadow 
fey enchantress, see Tome of Beasts); 
Population: 40,000 (20,000 umbral humans, 17,000 
shadow goblins, 1,000 sable elves, 1,000 catfolk, and 1,000 
shadow fey)
Great Gods: Santerr Marossa (patron), Anu-Akma, 
Charun, Hecate, and Kupkoresh
Trade Goods: Fish, beer, grain, white oak ships, wool, 
salt, moonstones, and leather (in order of importance)
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 120 ---
120
Book of Ebon Tides
Sodgrass Marshes and across the river from near the 
Styx Tower to the Goblin Plains to the east. These 
giants, nicknamed Memory, Sorrow, and Loss, use 
glistening mooncatcher’s nets (see Chapter 10), made 
only by the mooncatcher goblins and priests of 
Hecate in Fandeval, to pull souls and memories from 
the water. Once they are netted and bottled, these 
are traded to the mooncatchers and wizards who 
transform them into memory philters (see Chapter 
10), healing draughts, and sometimes into moonsteel 
weapons (see Chapter 10). 
Moon Towers and Moonlight Masses. The city of 
Fandeval is famed for its moon towers, which are each 
topped by a globular dome that lights up at night. 
Built as shrines to Hecate—and as acts of ostentatious 
devotion by the wealthy—these towers also house 
the Lady of Darkness’s priests. The brightest moon 
tower is connected to the Cathedral of the Dark 
Moons, which holds private services for initiates 
of the goddess’s inner mysteries at each of the new 
moons and full moons (both moons reach their 
greatest and least brightness in synchrony). Her 
Luminance Salarra Mortre leads these ceremonies, 
and her various blessings and sacrifices include the 
Transformation of Moonlight, which turns lesser fey into 
shadow goblins. Other ceremonies are said to turn 
silver into memory philters or to weave nets for the 
Styx giants. 
Groves of the Wardens 
The bearfolk groves of the wardens are druidic sites 
and training grounds for bearfolk shadow gnawers. 
Several have grown into small villages or settlements, 
but their primary function remains as training 
grounds for bearfolk wardens and guardians against 
shadow. The primary groves are briefly described here.
Eagle Grove. Up in the hills by a stream’s headwater 
stands a single stone temple to Umbeserno, a 
pilgrimage site for the bearfolk God of Dreams. His 
priests maintain the grove and teach shadow gnawers 
and others how to protect themselves against shadow 
corruption. They also sell amulets and holy draughts 
of mead to aid in winter’s sleep. These sales and 
pilgrimages end in late fall when the temple priests 
retire to their own slumbers until spring.
Hawthorn Grove. Favored by birch sirens and river 
giants (see Chapter 9 for both) as well as treants and 
various ogres, unicorns, and alseids, the Hawthorn 
Grove remains the most senior school and seminary 
for young druids of all kinds in the Shadow Realm. 
As many as two dozen initiates receive tutelage here 
at any given time under the auspices of Lady Rowan 
(CG bearfolk druid, see Chapter 9).
Leaping Salmon Grove. A small bearfolk settlement 
with a rickety wooden bridge over a narrow point of 
the Styx, Leaping Salmon Grove was once purely a 
druidic circle but has since grown into a small town of 
almost 1,000 bearfolk, wyrd gnomes, and erina, most 
of them fisherfolk. They smoke and preserve much of 
their catch for trade.
Lost Grove. Far from the larger bearfolk realms, 
this grove once stood near the Whispering Plain. A 
ritual gone awry at a time of great flux in the ebon 
tides broke it loose from the wider bearfolk realm, 
and it drifted in a matter of months across the 
Whispering Plain and finally came to rest near the 
Silver Hills. It is still a potent stone circle of power, 
ably led by a fierce defender, Lord Istler (LG bearfolk 
knight of shadows, see Chapter 9), and his company 
of shadow gnawers and two lunar elf archers, 
nicknamed Folly and Flight. 
Moonstone Grove. Known for its druid school and 
its enormous standing stones, tall trees, and a moon 
tower, Moonstone Grove is too quiet to interest most 
fey and too tranquil for most goblins. The chief druid 
and village elder is Franelle Elderberry, a human 
woman who has spent her life among the bearfolk. 
She left the fey courts and retains a deep dislike of the 
shadow fey and shadow goblins generally.
Sleeper’s Grove. High in the mountains, this deeply 
scented grove of pines is inaccessible in winter. The 
druids here are skilled in winter magic and know 
many avian forms for shapeshifting, leading some 
jesters to refer to them as the “owlbearfolk.” It is 
the site of dozens of tombs for honored bearfolk, 
especially royalty and archdruids. It stands high 
in the mountains with a few year-round guardians 
and caretakers, led by Chief Tomb Warden Tromble 
Dorran (LN bearfolk gladiator). Small bands of 
ravenfolk visit from time to time, perhaps to speak 
with the dead. The guardians frown on this but do not 
prevent it.
Three Hives Grove. A center of honey production, 
as its name implies, this grove is a ramshackle 
collection of bearfolk cabins and a wooden 
palisade—a sleepy timber town. It also features an 
arcane well of power, a radiant well that somehow 
emits moonlight and arcane power that the local 
druids harness to turn into moonstone, moonsteel, 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 121 ---
121
Realms Beyond the Courts
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 122 ---
122
Book of Ebon Tides
and other useful substances of pure, solidified 
radiance. Lunar devils and followers of the Moonlit 
King have visited repeatedly, perhaps to trade arcane 
secrets with the Beekeeper in Chief, Lord Aparombo 
(CG bearfolk thunderstomper, see Chapter 9).
Veiled Grove. Barely connected to the capital of 
Solvheim by a narrow track, the Veiled Grove is a 
sanctuary and holy ground where any outlaw or exile 
may find shelter, be they bearfolk, shadow fey, or a 
shade from Soriglass. Its trees are enormous pines of 
a kind not often seen, their trunks reddish and their 
leaves tending to dark-plum shades. The druid of the 
Veiled Grove is Rumbella Nuuneva, a grandmotherly 
bearfolk who seems able to pierce illusions and sense 
the truth of corrupted hearts. A small spring in the 
Veiled Grove is used to cleanse shadow corruption 
from those who fall prey to it, attracting occasional 
pilgrims and wayward adventurers.
Merrymead, City of Revels
A city of joy and light and strength is unusual in any 
kingdom, but in the dark landscape of the Shadow 
Realm, Merrymead seems a mirage. Built of great 
oak timber daubed with clay and painted in bright, 
warding patterns of flowering vines, every rooftop 
studded with beehives, and wandering droves of pigs 
grown fat from acorns, Merrymead is a lively point 
in a shadowy forest, and it enjoys frequent trade as it 
sits at the crossroads between Fandeval, the Moonlit 
Glades, and the forests of the shadow fey. It is an 
especially seasonal sort of city, having a much faster, 
even frenetic pace in high summer and fall, compared 
to the sleepy winter and the difficult days of spring.
The city’s role as a crossroads extends beyond the 
roads within the Shadow Realm. One of its roads 
leads back to the mortal world, to a sophisticated, 
well-ruled human city with a large temple to a 
goddess of cats, hunters, and perfumes. 
The Honey Fair. Each year at high summer, the 
King and Queen of Merrymead open a trade fair, 
one of the few in the Shadow Realm. It is open to 
everyone who can obey its rules: fair speech, fair 
bargains, and no brawling outside the Royal Ring. 
Many deals are struck for great vats of honey and 
The Coming of the Bearfolk / from the Book of Ebon Tides
The bearfolk came to the land of shadows in two great waves: first 
were the druids and their servants, and then the warriors, chewing 
shadows and destroying the darakhul, the vampires, and others. 
Their forests here grow quickly, and their roads are strengthened 
with radiance, but the bearfolk remain vulnerable in the sleepy 
winter months. Over the centuries, their presence has gone 
from a few wanderers and stone huts to a northerly realm of its 
own. Everywhere they settle, the snows are thicker and the forests 
a bit healthier. Their druids can remove shadow contamination from even 
the worst afflicted, and their warriors are a match for anyone.
A Road to Midgard
The forest paths to the northeast of Merrymead 
contain a shadow road to Midgard’s Western Wastes. 
Those many layers of fern, bracken, and undergrowth 
eventually lead directly into the temple of Ailuros in 
Bourgund, and worshippers there are sometimes 
surprised by the sudden appearance of bearfolk. 
In addition, each year at the honey fair, the bearfolk 
king of Björnrike or the bearfolk queen of the Arbonesse 
opens the Honey Road for a week. They then extend 
an invitation for bearfolk of the realm to come to their 
sunny lands, strengthening the bonds between the 
bearfolk of the Shadow Realm and those of the lands 
they came from, long ago.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 123 ---
123
Realms Beyond the Courts
mead, for lengths of bearfolk timber and goblin 
moonsteel, and even for strange treasures dug up 
from Soriglass or brought down from the stars. The 
trade fair sometimes even carries on into mortal 
lands when a bear king of the mortal world opens a 
shadow road, as the Honey Fair ends, and extends an 
invitation to travel the Honey Road to bearfolk lands 
in the mortal world.
The Slumbering Winter. The city of Merrymead is 
still populated in winter months, but its bearfolk do 
very little but sleep, dream, and wake for brief periods 
to see the snow. During the slumbering months, 
the regency is granted to a trusted human, such as 
the high priestess of Charun, the boatwoman Linne 
Mallemele, or else the high priest of Umbeserno, 
Snuffling Tilda, Keeper of the Snoring Temple—
who, as all priestesses of the Lord of Sleep, enters 
the winter sleep late and wakes early. One of the 
priestesses watches over the bears and keeps the city’s 
business moving, albeit at a sedate pace until spring. 
Their primary goal is to provision the city well for the 
spring hunger. 
The Spring Hunger. Come the spring and the 
snowmelt, Merrymead stirs and wakes itself, 
extremely thin and hungering. Darakhul in particular 
seem to understand the bearfolk hunger in a way 
that gnomes and humans don’t quite, and their 
merchants always forge through the late snows 
to bring fish, spring lamb, potatoes, and other 
provisions to Merrymead. Vast amounts of food are 
devoured in just a few weeks as the bearfolk awaken 
family by family, and the price of spring provender is 
double that of the rest of the year. In short order, the 
festivals of Bengta and Charun are held, the shrine of 
Umbeserno holds the rite of Waking the Last Sleeper, 
and the dream season ends with bearfolk returning to 
the hives, fishponds, groves, and fields.
Moonlit Glades 
The Moonlit Glades is the most prominent ray of light 
and hope in the Shadow Realm. Here the bearfolk 
dwell and tend their small patch of home against the 
darkness, and their numbers grow steadily from year 
to year. While the bearfolk are natives of the Shadow 
Realm, they remain as vulnerable to the plane’s 
corruptive influence as any visitor from the mortal 
world. That generations have lived and died within the 
shadows without falling to its temptation represents 
a minor miracle—and a sign that the bearfolk 
understand shadow’s temptations better than most 
and that their druids and gods protect them. 
THE MOONSWEPT NORTH 
The Moonlit Glades nestle deep in a black pine forest 
of the Shadow Realm’s far north, corresponding 
loosely to the lands of ice and snow in the mortal 
world. The moon shines its face upon the glades as 
Merrymead, the City of Revels
Rulers: His Sonorous Majesty King Zaim Gundervolk (CG 
bearfolk druid, see Chapter 9) and Her Gilded Majesty 
Queen Hollibee (LG bearfolk apostle of Bengta, see 
Tome of Beasts 3)
Important Personages: Double Time Karlo von 
Karlose (CN quickstep, see Creature Codex); Ferryboat’s 
Keeper Linne Mallemele, high priestess of Charun (NE 
human apostle of Charun, see Tome of Beasts 3); 
Fragrant Servant Sayzanette Belleflor, high priestess of 
Ailuros (CG human priest of Ailuros); Her Solemnance 
Snuffling Tilda (NG bearfolk first servant of Umbeserno, 
see Tome of Beasts 3); Lady of the Forest Alossa Tergehar 
(LN human druid); Master of the Hives Ingmore 
Meadbeard (NG bearfolk druid, see Chapter 9)
Population: 11,000 (6,500 bearfolk, 2,000 umbral 
humans, 1,600 shadow goblins, 500 darakhul, and 400 
wyrd gnomes)
Great Gods: Bengta (patron), Ailuros, Charun, 
Kupkoresh, and Umbeserno
Trade Goods: Honey, wheat, oats, ironwork, maple and 
pine wood, and pork (in order of importance)
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 124 ---
124
Book of Ebon Tides
if blessing the bearfolk in their desperate struggle. 
Shadow roads to Soriglass and the fey courts offer 
the most reliable and timely path of entry into the 
glades, and the bearfolk have wrested control of 
these paths from the shadow fey. Stone and silver 
cairns mark the borders of the Moonlit Glades, and 
moonlight always bathes these markers. Bearfolk 
druids conduct rituals at these stones, renewing 
the magic that holds shadow’s touch at bay. Each 
bearfolk settlement similarly features a standing 
stone or cairn at its center, creating another layer of 
protection for its residents. 
Given their relative safety from the more powerful 
denizens of the Shadow Realm, the bearfolk have 
nurtured their claim of the dark land. The Moonlit 
Glades have secured numerous pure resources here, 
and the bearfolk fight furiously to maintain them. 
Waterways in the Moonlit Glades run clear, 
glittering like rivers of molten silver beneath the 
moonlit sky. The spirits that haunt rivers and streams 
in the rest of the Shadow Realm grow quiet and 
peaceful within the bearfolk’s borders, allowing 
travelers to drink unmolested. The bearfolk tribes 
maintain a strong druidic tradition as well as the 
worship of their own gods, Bengta and Umbeserno, 
and the Green Gods in their masks as Freyr and 
Freyja. These divine servants spend most of their time 
tending to agriculture, tending to their fruits and 
vegetables free of shadow corruption. Even the beasts 
are more like their material counterparts here, and 
their meat is wholesome and nourishing. Few things 
rouse the ire of the bearfolk more quickly or more 
violently than poachers. 
Settlements in the Moonlit Glades are small and 
dispersed, but each remains in close contact with the 
others. Runners, hunters, druids, and priests make 
regular rounds between the villages and the capital 
settlement of Solvheim, carrying news, delivering 
requests for aid, and reinforcing close ties with the 
surrounding tribes. Originally the population of the 
Moonlit Glades was purely bearfolk, but over the 
The Bear Kingdom of Midgard
A proud people, the bearfolk originally hailed from 
Björnrike, the Bear Kingdom in the Northlands of 
Midgard. The ruler of Björnrike, Mesikämmen the Bear 
King, foresaw a terrible doom growing in the Shadow 
Realm that threatened all his people. He gathered his 
most trusted warriors and druids and charged them 
with an impossible task—to enter the Shadow Realm 
and fight back the corruption at its source. His brave 
subjects set forth on a forbidden shadow road without 
hesitation and never looked back. 
Moonlit Glades
Ruler: Gulfwyr Moonrage, Chief of the Moonlit Glades 
(CG werebear bearfolk chieftain, see Creature Codex) 
Important Personages: Elder Whitepaw (CG 
bearfolk druid, see Chapter 9); Hierophant Ernalda 
Berlasdottir (NG bearfolk druid, see Chapter 9); Kordan 
Wodenson, reaver chieftain (LN wolf reaver dwarf, see 
Tome of Beasts)
Population: 27,000 (21,000 bearfolk, 3,500 umbral 
humans, 1,500 dwarves, 500 half-elves, 400 shadow fey, 
and 100 various werebears, alseid, and others) 
Capital: Solvheim, population 12,000 
Other Settlements: Eagle Grove, Hawthorn Grove, 
Leaping Salmon Grove, Sleepers Grove, Three Hives 
Grove, Veiled Grove
Great Gods: Bengta (patron), Charun (called Hod), 
Freyr and Freyja (Yarila and Porevit), Thor, and Umbeserno 
Trade Goods: Medicinal herbs, pure food and water, 
silver, moonlight honey (in order of importance)
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 125 ---
125
Realms Beyond the Courts
years, it has adapted to include humans, elves, and 
others. Other races from the Kingdom of the Bear 
have come to the Shadow Realm, initially to maintain 
contact between the shadow colony and their kin in 
the mortal world, but eventually many integrated 
into the existing bearfolk communities. Humans are 
the most prominent of these newcomer races, but a 
contingent of reaver dwarves who venerate bear spirit 
totems found their way here and decided to settle. The 
dwarves represent an invaluable asset to the Moonlit 
Glades since they are among the few seafarers willing 
to sail on the fog-shrouded black waters of Frost 
Gulf. Even these stalwart sailors don’t venture far 
from land, but their crafts allow the bearfolk and 
their allies unprecedented, swift access to other 
areas of the Shadow Realm, when the shadow roads 
become too dangerous or don’t lead to the proper 
destination. The Rivers Styx and Lethe are far safer 
for the moonlit reavers to navigate though, and they 
occasionally raid darakhul, goblin, and shadow fey 
villages along the waterways. 
Some renegade shadow fey call the Moonlit Glades 
home, though they must go to extraordinary lengths 
to prove their honorable intentions and win the 
bearfolk’s trust. Half-elves as well as a fair number 
of alseid and werebears are scattered throughout 
the population. The Moonlit Glades have a calming 
effect on werebears, and even during the full moon, 
these lycanthropes find their more destructive urges 
curbed. Werebears often seek the way to the glades, so 
they can live out their lives in righteous service with 
less fear of losing themselves to the curse. 
TIES THAT BIND: RULERS OF THE GLADES 
Despite their differences, the peoples of the glades 
consider each other to be family. A diarchy consisting 
of the chieftain and the hierophant rules the nation. 
The chieftain oversees martial defense and civil 
government, serving as the highest authority to 
settle disputes among tribal leaders. The hierophant 
represents the spiritual center of the Moonlit Glades 
and is the most trusted counselor on magical matters, 
including for the elevation and ordinance of new 
druids and clerics and for consultation on matters of 
shadow corruption, the flow of the ebon tides, the 
management of boundary stones, and similar issues. 
The Chieftain. The current chieftain, Gulfwyr 
Moonrage, is a massive grizzlehide bearfolk werebear 
whose pitch-black fur is deeply frosted with silver. A 
terrifying opponent in battle, Gulfwyr earns his deed 
name hundreds of times over, channeling his rage 
into the destruction of his foes and the protection 
of the Moonlit Glades. His restraint regarding the 
werebear curse borders on the stuff of legends, and he 
has never infected another creature. Outside of battle, 
Gulfwyr is wise and fair, and many already consider 
him a living ancestor. He brooks no foolishness 
when deciding disputes and is quick to punish a party 
bringing frivolous suits. Living in the depths of the 
Shadow Realm, there is always more at stake than 
spite or selfishness. 
The Hierophant. Ernalda Berlasdottir, the 
hierophant, provides the spiritual and magical 
counterpart to Gulfwyr’s battle prowess and civic 
dictates. A slender but tough purifier bearfolk, she 
decorates her long, red-gold fur with braids, beads, 
feathers, and silver charms. The most powerful druid 
in the Moonlit Glades, she takes great care to learn 
of any shadow incursion into the relative purity of 
her home. She provides the single greatest source of 
healing and restorative lore in the entire realm: there 
is no affliction that she can’t identify, if not relieve. 
She devotes her time to maintaining the moonlit 
wards that protect her home and pursuing cases of 
shadow corruption. 
The Wanderer. A strange sight in the holdings of the 
Moonlit Glades, a venerable bearfolk with snow‑white 
fur, called Elder Whitepaw, calls no settlement nor 
village home. Instead, he wanders from town to 
town. The shaman’s demeanor can be strange and 
sometimes off-putting, for he converses at random, 
answering unheard questions or shifting with no 
warning or preamble from a discussion with present 
individuals to one with figments of his imagination or 
beings otherwise imperceptible to any but himself. 
Despite his strange habits, Whitepaw is the only 
bearfolk other than the chieftain with a direct line of 
contact to Hierophant Ernalda. Though his wandering 
seems random, Whitepaw is deeply in tune with the 
healing and awakening spirits of nature within the 
cleansed Moonlit Glades. Elder Whitepaw has a deep 
knowledge of the spread of shadow corruption and 
the influence of dark entities, such as the umbral 
vampires, cultists of the Black Goat of the Woods, and 
the undead, but communicating that knowledge is 
often difficult. Whitepaw often stumbles into agents of 
the Lantern Bearers or a visiting band of adventurers 
and offers them a task or request of great import. 
Individuals who perform admirably earn Whitepaw’s 
favor and the goodwill of the bearfolk. 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 126 ---
126
Book of Ebon Tides
AGAINST THE DARKNESS 
When the bearfolk first walked the shadow roads, 
they had only the faintest idea of what awaited them 
or even what foe they sought to thwart. The peril they 
faced was deceptively minimal at first: the occasional 
shadow or unquiet spirit, predatory beasts that 
sought their first taste of uncorrupted flesh. These 
dangers were faced without difficulty, insulated from 
the most insidious creatures of shadow by their 
remote location. All too soon, they learned the true 
danger of the Shadow Realm remains one’s own 
imperfect nature. Their numbers began to feel the 
force of corruption, and division struck their ranks. 
Melancholy gave way to paranoia, and that gave way to 
conflict. As the corruption spread, those who proved 
more resistant tried in vain to help their fellows, which 
only added fuel to the fire. Before long, the corrupted 
bearfolk turned on their own kin, and the blood spilled 
drew the attention of the umbral vampires. One day 
they were simply there, arising from dark ruins the 
bearfolk had never seen before. The warriors fought 
valiantly, but with their ranks reduced by spreading 
corruption, they knew they were doomed. 
It was then that the druids’ last desperate plan 
succeeded, and hope kindled anew. Using the last 
drops of pure water brought from their home along 
with silver mined in the Shadow Realm, the druids 
drove back the darkness empowering the invaders. 
Through this victory, the bearfolk discovered how 
shadow corruption—coupled with acts of betrayal, 
murder, and the resulting despair—bored holes 
through the veil between the Shadow Realm and the 
mortal world. The umbral vampires slipped through 
these widening cracks, their timeless nature drawing 
them to places where shadow bleeds into the world. In 
the light that shone from the heavens, the bearfolk saw 
the truth that led them to this place and resolved to 
oppose the spread of shadow from within. Bolstered 
by their new discovery, the bearfolk rallied and drove 
the wretched creatures back into their ruins. These 
strange slivers of the City Fallen into Shadow melted 
back into the darkness as moonlight overtook them. 
The bearfolk’s knowledge brings them into conflict 
with powerful forces within the Shadow Realm, 
namely the darakhul of the Twilight Empire and the 
umbral vampires of Oshragora. Each of these has a 
terrible knack for finding rifts and cracks to exploit, 
and the bearfolk know they pose a risk of large-scale 
shadow corruption pushing into their homeland here 
as well as their mother lands in the mortal world. 
ALLIES IN THE LIGHT 
The Moonlit Glades form a solid bastion of hope 
in the Shadow Realm. The nation is protected from 
shadow corruption and from the worst depredations 
of shadow creatures because of its moonlit wards. 
The bearfolk understand how pervasive shadow is. 
Bearfolk and their allies are occasionally corrupted, 
but they hold the key to long-term survival: they can 
perform a ritual passed down from the first settlers of 
the Moonlit Glades that can scour shadow corruption 
with cleansing moonlight. 
The druids regularly conduct rituals to maintain 
the moonlit wards around their borders and in the 
center of each settlement. Because they can remove 
shadow’s touch, the Moonlit Glades became the 
center of the network now known as the Lantern 
Bearers. Though the bearfolk never teach their 
purification rituals to outsiders for fear that forces of 
shadow will find a way to corrupt or circumvent them, 
they are willing to use their gifts to aid outsiders 
struggling against shadow corruption. The relative 
safety and purity of the Moonlit Glades is recognized 
throughout the Shadow Realm, and the hidden allies 
of light know the place may be their only hope in 
desperate times. 
A few far-flung settlements of bearfolk and their 
allies have been established far from the Moonlit 
Glades. Each revolves around a standing stone 
inlaid with silver or a stone-and-silver cairn as in 
the glades, holding back the shadow. Usually away 
from well-traveled areas, these outposts always have 
a specific purpose. Most often they observe an area 
where the barrier between the Shadow Realm and 
the mortal world has worn thin. They watch to ensure 
that incursions from the Shadow Realm can’t push 
through these eroded doorways. These villages and 
small forts also serve as a sanctuary or last-ditch 
salvation for friendly travelers lost in the darkness. 
Guides from the Moonlit Glades are fascinated by 
the strange glowing crystals that float through the 
Shadow Realm—the witchlights. The bearfolk and 
their ilk aren’t entirely sure what to make of these 
constructs, but they have seen them time and again 
lead travelers out of danger—and sometimes to 
exactly what the lost souls need to survive. They don’t 
fully trust the witchlights though since they resemble 
will-o’-wisps. Although there are no confirmed 
reports of witchlights harming or misleading 
travelers, they are suspicious enough to warrant 
healthy caution.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 127 ---
Book of Ebon Tides
Oshragora, the City  
Fallen into Shadow 
Once men and women, the umbral vampires now 
exist as twisted fiends sustained by the power of 
shadow and hungry for the life they once held. Not 
undead but instead fully creatures of the Shadow 
Realm, umbral vampires resemble pale, gaunt 
humanoids with long, pointed ears and sharp 
features—darkness weeping like smoke from their 
eyes, mouth, and nose—and their touch drains the 
life and vitality from their victims. They drift through 
the City Fallen into Shadow, a crumbling ruin 
twisted through space and time. 
Albent Stadium. Athletic feats and prisoner blood 
sports are held here to amuse the vampire overlords.
Burning Towers. The city has at least two towers 
wrapped in perpetual flames, usually a deep orange 
although sometimes purple—sometimes it is three or 
four such towers, when visual or temporal distortions 
double them. These towers were built over radiant 
wells that were tampered with, and lines of arcane 
power provide a constant stream of phlogiston to 
burn without any other fuel. The umbral vampires 
avoid them, but fire elementals sometimes dance in 
the flames, and some believe a shadow road to the 
City of Brass once began in one of these towers.
Castle Darros. The castle and the nearby barracks 
are home to Lady Elenya and her handmaidens, a 
group of wraiths, as well as her court of shadow 
goblins and human thralls.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 128 ---
128
Book of Ebon Tides
City Hall. A fine, half-timbered building that is one 
of the few structures in very good repair, this hall is 
the hub of commerce, industry, and plotting for the 
creatures that dare to visit the city. Its basement is 
the Ratskellar, the only tavern in town, and the fare 
is notoriously poor. The specialty is fried purpure, a 
sort of lilac-colored fish native to the city’s river. Lord 
Nalgevar maintains an audience chamber somewhere 
in the dungeons beneath the hall.
Dusk Guildhall. The vampires that often visit their 
umbral cousins founded a guild here, devoted to the 
spread of the city’s people and power. As a strange 
sort of explorer’s society, they exchange information 
and pursue targets among the darakhul, humans, and 
shadow fey. Most members are dhampir, vampires, 
vampire spawn, or shades. Some of the Dusk Guildhall 
members seek a close alliance with Soriglass.
Storm Tower. This tall, Gothic tower with its many 
gargoyles, bloodthirsty vines, and elaborate balconies 
is home to the city’s umbral vampires, and features 
eight large bronze doors at its base. As the home to 
many of the city’s commoners and the most habitable 
of its buildings, the Storm Tower is a useful crossroads 
between all the splinters of the city, no matter how 
they twist in space. Lightning and flickering witchfire 
often illuminate the tower and azza gremlins and 
spire walkers (see Tome of Beasts for both) are often 
visible. The city’s rulers are rarely found here though, 
instead favoring Castle Darros and City Hall.
The ghouls of the Twilight Empire believe an 
ancient artifact is buried somewhere beneath the 
tower and frequently send spies or scouts to attempt 
to recover it (thus far, without success).
Violet River. This tributary of the River Styx runs 
though Oshragora silently and largely without 
hindrance. Sometimes, the river seems to flow 
into a portal or void, and at other times, it appears 
seemingly from nowhere in the middle of a city street. 
SUNDERED HISTORY 
The greatest cautionary tale of the Shadow Realm 
is undoubtedly that of the umbral vampires. Once 
residents of a thriving metropolis, the rulers of this 
long-forgotten city were powerful spellcasters whose 
might put to shame even the greatest sorcerers of this 
current age. They were wise and just and used their 
power to preserve the glory of their people. And their 
decline began subtly. 
In an effort to prevent the inevitable march of 
time, the great archmages twisted it and diverted its 
flow. The entire population of the great city freed 
themselves of the shackles of age and death. For 
generations, they existed in this state, developing 
even greater magic, fine art, and architecture to rival 
the palaces of the gods. But for all their wisdom and 
might, they were blind to the danger set before them. 
As the river of time in the world around the city 
flowed on, it began to erode the spells holding it at 
bay. Eventually the spells failed, and the city drowned 
in all those many years it had denied. In the rush of 
uncontrolled magic and rampantly fluctuating time, 
the entire city vanished from the mortal world. Only 
the barest traces remain because the entire city was 
pulled into the darkness between worlds. The people 
of the once-great city felt the ravages of shadow 
corruption, but they were trapped in chaotic temporal 
storms. They spent an eternity in that closed loop of 
time, devoured by shadow, reborn and consumed 
again and again until finally the timestorm abated. 
When the winds of history settled, Oshragora, 
the City Fallen into Shadow, was born. Great, 
towering ruins appeared in the landscape of the 
Shadow Realm. Cobbled streets cracked and twisted, 
following new paths dictated by shadow’s distortions. 
Buildings that once touched the sky now stand in a 
frozen jumble of collapse, held in unstable pockets 
of temporal stasis. These pockets fail, unwind, 
and reassert themselves at random. Bits of the city 
crumble or reassemble before an observer’s eyes. 
The city defies conventional understanding of 
geography and space, even among other places in 
the Shadow Realm. While the rest of the plane shifts 
over the course of months or years, the City Fallen 
into Shadow seems to change without a predictable 
pattern or schedule. 
INSCRUTABLE AND UNCOUNTABLE 
Oshragora isn’t sufficiently organized to be called a 
city-state, much less a nation. An unknown number 
of umbral vampires lurk in its crumbled buildings and 
shadow-choked alleys. Despite repeated attempts, no 
scouting force or explorer has ever made an accurate 
estimate of the city’s cursed population. Umbral 
vampires simply slip between the cracks of reality as 
if they’re still shifting through time and space. One 
half-mad shadow fey hunter raved that she fought 
and slew the same umbral vampire for weeks while 
lost in a forest that continually coiled back on itself. 
The umbral vampires’ motivations remain 
obscure—or at least prone to chaotic shifts. On 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 129 ---
129
Realms Beyond the Courts
occasion, one might be willing to speak with visitors 
rather than simply devouring their essence, but these 
conversations always prove frustrating. The vampires 
mention events out of chronological order and make 
references to people and places no sage can identify. 
In spite of this, they give the impression that they 
understand far more than they’re able to effectively 
communicate. Shadow fey emissaries are certain that 
a ruling council still exists somewhere in the city, but 
the place’s unstable nature has made it impossible to 
find. The Queen of Night and Magic has proclaimed 
that she will trade an emperor’s ransom in treasure 
and secrets for a reliable connection to the umbral 
vampires’ dark council—or at least to Lord Nalgevar. 
Despite the difficulty of operating within the 
city and communicating with the vampires, other 
creatures exist there. Undead shadows thrive in and 
around the city (and in the splinters of the city that 
appear elsewhere), drifting in the wake of umbral 
vampires. For some reason, the shadows don’t attack 
the umbral vampires, suggesting either some mastery 
the umbral vampires hold over the shadows or at 
least a perceived kinship. Ghouls from the Twilight 
Empire also make frequent trips to the city. Through 
covert means and interrogation, the shadow fey 
believe that the Twilight Emperor of the ghouls 
searches for some lost artifact hidden in the city. 
Whatever this artifact is, it likely has power over time, 
and it might even have been a part of the magic that 
doomed the city in the first place. 
Other stranger visitors appear in and around the 
city and its splinters, such as shadow mages and 
eonic drifters (see Tome of Beasts) who step between 
the past and future as one might cross into the next 
room, enigmatic travelers of the aeons. This is hardly 
surprising given the city’s tumultuous relationship 
with time. Due to the city’s unique nature and potent 
magic, travelers from all realms and times find 
themselves drawn to it. 
EVER REACHING 
The other denizens of the Shadow Realm shun the 
umbral vampires and drive them back with blade 
and spell whenever their paths cross. As a result, the 
umbral vampires can’t readily make use of shadow 
roads or even those spots where the planes connect to 
the Shadow Realm. Though much reduced from their 
former glory, they remain powerful and devilishly 
cunning. Perhaps their most disturbing talent is the 
ability to find weak spots in the barrier between the 
realms. This shadow reflection of the mortal world, 
where despair, blood, and darkness tear rifts between 
the worlds, draws the vampires, and their presence 
seems to hasten the opening of doorways to the 
Shadow Realm. Thankfully, the umbral vampires 
seem compelled to remain close to the ruins of 
Oshragora, so they exist in a limited area. 
Just as the city seems to warp the land around it, 
or at least to move in some fashion, so too does it 
occasionally shed pieces of itself. These splinters of 
the city, sometimes as little as a single ruined building 
and other times an entire neighborhood or district, 
simply appear elsewhere. As with the other distortion 
effects of the city, a splinter might emerge miles away 
and remain for days or weeks at a time. The splinters 
drag umbral vampires and other denizens along with 
them, depending on the size of the splinter. A single 
building might contain one umbral vampire and a 
host of shadows. A district, on the other hand, might 
release an onslaught of a dozen or more umbral 
vampires on the surrounding area. 
The bearfolk from the Moonlit Glades have kept 
a watchful eye on Oshragora after a few disturbing 
appearances of splinters within their domain. 
They grow increasingly worried with each vampire 
encounter but don’t have enough useful information 
to plan a suitable defense. So far, they’ve contained 
the umbral vampires in a dozen splinters until the 
splinters vanished, but their lack of arcane knowledge 
hampers their efforts beyond pure reaction. They’re 
quite eager to learn how the splinters function and 
how to keep them at bay. 
Using the Oshragora 
8-Section Map
The City Fallen into Shadow is splintered along a 
fourfold axis, dividing the city into eight segments 
around the Storm Tower at the center. When using 
the map, you can either keep segments A, B, C, 
and so forth in clockwise sequence up to H, or you 
can shuffle the segments as PCs explore it. The blue 
barrier lines mark the map but are rarely visible in 
the city itself: these are where the splinters move, 
grind against each other, or rotate to shuffle the city’s 
geometry. The Storm Tower is always the center and 
often visible from any other section.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 130 ---
130
Book of Ebon Tides
Oshragora, the  
City Fallen into Shadow
Ruler: Lord of Oshragora and Master of the Violet 
River, Keeper of the Sanguine Shrine, and Seneschal 
of the Salamander City, Iktorros Nalgevar (CE umbral 
vampire, see Tome of Beasts)
Important Personages: Elenya the Proud, Lady of 
the Castle Darros, First Spawn of Iktorros (NE umbral 
vampire, see Tome of Beasts); His Excellence Cilestros 
Margevan, high priest of the Hunter (NE lich); Treposs 
Palendulo (LE human archmage)
Population: 600 (100 dark folk, 100 umbral humans, 
100 shadow goblins, 50 darakhul, 50 derro, 50 satarre, 
50 shades, 50 selang, and 50 umbral vampires)
Great Gods: Alquam (patron), Goat of the Woods, 
Hunter, Santerr Illosi, and Vardesain
Trade Goods: Statuary, trained gargoyles and gremlins, 
amulets, wolf pelts, and fish (in order of importance)
How to Use Temporal Distortions in the City
effect and using the new one. Creatures that spend more 
than a day in Oshragora slowly see less and less of such 
distortions as the city seems to acknowledge them as 
natives within a week.
TABLE 7–1: TEMPORAL DISTORTIONS
d8
Temporal Effect
1
Perception slows, causing everything that moves to become blurry and indistinct. All creatures in the 
splinter are affected by the blur spell.
2
Everyone in the splinter hops between two different timelines. Each living creature is affected by the blink 
spell. Affected creatures are safe from attacks when they jump to the other timeline.
3
Time is inconstant in the splinter. Each creature that rolls an even result on its initiative roll gains the effects 
of the haste spell. Each creature that rolls an odd result on its initiative roll gains the effects of the slow spell.
4
Each creature in the splinter gains a slightly out-of-sync double. Each time a creature targets you with an 
attack, it must roll a d20. On a result of 1–10, the attack hits your double. On a result of 11–20 the attack hits 
you. Your double’s AC and hit points are equal to yours at the beginning of combat. Your double can’t move 
or take actions independently of you.
5
Time jumps backward in short bursts. At the end of each of its turns, each creature regains 10 hit points, up 
to its maximum hit points. On the first round after it dies, each creature that is dead must roll a death saving 
throw. On a success, it regains 10 hit points and resumes living as though it had never been dead.
6–8
No temporal effect.
The degree of chaos and weirdness visible on the streets 
and among the ruins is up to the GM. To add some level 
of strangeness to exploration, roll on the Temporal 
Distortions table every time creatures pass from one 
section (or splinter) of the city to another, ending any prior 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 131 ---
Book of Ebon Tides
The most recent addition to those scrutinizing the 
city includes the Court of One Million Stars. These 
strange fey drift through the ruins while enshrouded 
in starlight, which pains the shadows and umbral 
vampires. They study the city, but they meticulously 
avoid the areas of distorted time. Only one such 
creature has engaged in the briefest exchange while 
about its task. After obliterating a pack of umbral 
vampires with an incandescent wave of starfire, the 
luminous creature whispered to the only surviving 
adventurer, “The Void calls to the Void. It must not 
be allowed to answer.” The adventurer recounted his 
story to Revich, the blind angel in the Court of Night 
and Magic, before hurling himself from the top of 
the angel’s tower.
Soriglass, City of Shades 
Built in aeons past along the banks of the River Styx 
by the sable elves, the city of Soriglass is an enormous 
mausoleum—a ruin more famous for its crypts, 
ghosts, and shades than for any particular power, 
art, or wealth. Its inhabitants collect tomb-dust to 
make the drug called requiem (see Requiem, Drug 
of the Afterlife sidebar), and visitors often come to 
explore one of the two main dungeon complexes of 
the region: the Cloisters of the Outer Void, largely 
held by ghouls, satarre, and undead; and the Pit of the 
Squamous Fiend, said to connect directly to the lower 
layers of the Eleven Hells, inhabited by enough fiends 
and aberrations to make that seem likely. Both are 
death traps, brimming with fiends and undead, with 
connections to various deadly sorcerers, frothing 
cultists, and satarre doomsayers, and the two locales 
have been ruled by a succession of lich lords, minor 
demon lords, and evil high priests. They are too 
strong for the local king of the shades to root out, but 
fortunately they spend most of their time and energy 
fighting each other rather than honest travelers or the 
citizens of the city.  
Bright Barge Dock. While Soriglass has no bridge 
across the Styx, as does the Court of Golden 
Oaks, it does have a small community of halflings, 
Styx‑loving satarre, and umbral humans who build, 
load, and work barges up to Vysanth—a pilgrimage 
town devoted to Charun—and down the river as far 
as the goblin city of Fandeval. The mistress of the 
Bargeworker’s Guild, Happy Fillbec, is a strong, 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 132 ---
132
Book of Ebon Tides
no-nonsense leader of the barge captains and crews, 
and she brooks absolutely no foolishness when it 
comes to cargo and payments. Visitors to Soriglass 
often come by boat rather than by road, and her work 
securing safe, effective barge traffic on the Styx is one 
reason why.
Soriglass, the City of Shades
Ruler: Tomarrich the Howler, His Spectral Majesty and 
High Lord of Soriglass, the Keeper of the Final Portal, 
Warden of the Violet Marshes, Lord Protector of the 
Boneyard Pass (CE wraith)
Important Personages: Happy Fillbec, Bargemaster 
of the Guild (NG riverfolk halfling merchant captain, 
see Tome of Beasts 3); Her Luminance Ingalla Vert, 
pantheist priestess of Hecate and Santerr Illosi (NE 
darakhul first servant of Santerr Illosi, see Tome 
of Beasts 3); Valish the Starcatcher (LE satarre void 
speaker, see Creature Codex)
Population: 2,000 (1,000 umbral humans, 600 shades, 
200 darakhul, 100 shadow goblins, 50 satarre, and 50 
halflings)
Great Gods: Anu-Akma (patron), Charun, Hecate, 
Santerr Illosi, and Vardesain
Trade Goods: Papyrus, purple dyes, silver, moondust, 
requiem, and statuary (in order of importance)
Castle of Frozen Tears. King Tomarrich the Howler 
rules a small court of shades, minor phantoms, and 
necromancers who use the rich array of tombs and 
ghosts here as raw materials in the performance of 
dark magic. He dreams of gathering the darakhul 
to his side, though in practice he is very much a 
TABLE 7–2: 10 GHOSTS OF SORIGLASS
d10
Result
1
Old King Usen. A human lord of a long-forgotten land, who asks visitors to find the bones plundered from 
his tomb.
2
The Pale Innkeeper. A human woman known for serving fresh ale that turns to blood or salt water.
3
Cursing Marbella. An elven woman who cannot be seen but who swears in Elvish. She seeks vengeance 
against her killer.
4
The Watchman. A human city guard whose shouting could wake anyone but who can never grab a prisoner. 
He is looking to find and catch a thief and earn his rest.
5
The Drowned Man. Tangled in kelp and bits of net, he walks the streets, perpetually leaving a damp trail. 
If given a small sacrifice (spilled drink, bit of smoke or incense), he tells tales of the dark, ebon sea and the 
riverboats . . . and of a treasure he buried with his crew, long ago.
6
The Moaning Joker. A gnomish woman who always seeks to fill a ghostly goblet for a toast and who weeps 
that she can no longer enjoy water, wine, nor mead.  Tells terrible jokes.
7
The Empty Princess. An eyeless princess surrounded by a nimbus of burning void energy. Within her gown 
and sleeves is a tapestry of beetles, flies, and scorpions. If caught in a mooncatcher’s net, these insects yield a 
rich purple dye.
8
The Gray Knight. A silent, armored knight with helm and sword who stands watch over a tomb each night. 
Those who seek to pass into the tomb must defeat him for three nights in a row to lay his spirit to rest.
9
The Gnawing Ogre. A fat, spectral ogre who chews on any meat or bones left in the graveyard. Some say he 
devours the living as well and can only rest if he eats his fill.
10
Ingortellek, Giant of the Ancients. A red-haired giant who speaks in strangely stilted tones and who seeks to 
return down the River Styx to a final rest—if only someone would perform the burial rites.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 133 ---
133
Realms Beyond the Courts
Requiem, Drug of the Afterlife
Requiem is a potent drug that allows its users to speak 
with the dead when smoked. Made from death’s head 
mushrooms, the cremated ashes of sentient beings, and 
various other unsavory components, it gives its users 
visions of the dead but is highly addictive. It comes in 
two forms: a muddy substance called clay and a refined 
powder called bliss. 
REQUIEM CLAY (INHALED) 
Price per Dose: 750 gp 
When you smoke requiem clay, you summon the spirit of 
a single deceased person that you personally knew in life. 
The spirit’s image is visible, and its voice can be heard in 
whispers, but it cannot touch you. You can ask the spirit up 
to five questions, as the speak with dead spell. The spirit 
knows only what it knew in life, including the languages 
it knew. Answers are usually brief, cryptic, or repetitive, 
and the spirit is under no compulsion to offer a truthful 
answer if you are hostile to it or if it recognizes you as 
an enemy. The spirit can’t learn new information, doesn’t 
comprehend anything that has happened since it died, 
and can’t speculate about future events. 
Afterward, you suffer 3 (1d6) poison damage per 
question asked and must succeed on a Constitution 
saving throw (DC 10 + 1 per question asked) or become 
addicted to the drug. If you become addicted, you suffer 
one level of exhaustion 1d4 days after you last smoked the 
drug and gain a further level of exhaustion for each week 
that requiem is not smoked. Levels of exhaustion gained 
through requiem use do not reduce as normal after taking 
a long rest. Smoking requiem again eliminates levels of 
exhaustion gained from abstaining. 
At the end of each week, you can make a DC 13 
Constitution saving throw. Two consecutive weekly 
successful saving throws are necessary to break the 
addiction through abstinence. Alternatively, the addiction 
can be broken with a lesser restoration or heal spell. 
REQUIEM BLISS (INHALED) 
Price per Dose: 2,500 gp 
When you smoke requiem bliss, you experience feelings 
of euphoria. You summon the spirit of a single deceased 
person whose name you know. The spirit takes on the 
physical characteristics it had in life and might touch you, 
though it cannot harm you. You can ask the spirit questions 
as the speak with dead spell with the following exceptions: 
you can ask up to ten questions, and the spirit cannot lie to 
you. In addition, you are simultaneously granted the benefit 
of the contact other plane spell (without taking psychic 
damage or going insane) as the summoned spirit consults 
with others and relates information about a single question 
that would otherwise be unknown to it. 
You suffer 3 (1d6) poison damage per question asked 
and must succeed on a Constitution saving throw (DC 12 + 
1 per question asked) or become addicted to the drug. 
If you become addicted, you suffer two levels of 
exhaustion 1d4 days after you last smoked the drug and 
gain a further level of exhaustion for each week that 
requiem is not smoked. Levels of exhaustion gained 
through requiem use do not reduce as normal after taking 
a long rest. Smoking requiem again eliminates levels of 
exhaustion gained from abstaining. 
At the end of each week, you can make a DC 15 
Constitution saving throw. Three consecutive weekly 
successful saving throws are necessary to break the 
addiction through abstinence. Alternatively, the addiction 
can be broken with a lesser restoration or heal spell. 
minor vassal to Emperor Vilmos Marquering of the 
Twilight Empire, which is always nearby and in his 
thoughts. The castle itself is made of finely worked 
blue-white stone, luminous over the plains or from 
across the Styx.
Low Temple of the Ghouls, High Temple of Hecate. 
While Charun has several thriving shrines and priests 
in Soriglass, the most active temple is the Great Vault 
of Vardesain and Santerr Illosi, where ghoul and 
darakhul pilgrims come to pay homage to a religious 
relic: the Bone Cloak of Vardesain, said to be made from 
the fingerbones of more than 400 darakhul and one 
bone from an avatar of Vardesain himself. This relic is 
brought out by the priests on holy days, and darakhul 
wrapped in it are said to gain relief from the endless 
hunger and to be cured of various ailments of the 
undead. Her Luminance Ingalla Vert is the keeper 
of the cloak while the high priests of Vardesain from 
both Vysanth and Ossean often make the trek to visit 
the relic themselves, but neither priest cares to spend 
much time at the Great Vault.
The Cathedral of the Luminous Moon was once the 
largest temple to Hecate in the Shadow Realm. With 
the long decay of Soriglass though, its stained‑glass 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 134 ---
134
Book of Ebon Tides
windows are empty sockets in a weathered shell. High 
Priestess Vert leads other darakhul priestesses and 
several human adepts and initiates in the rites of the 
moon, and all are welcome in the black pews and at 
the full moon blessings of weapons, armor, livestock, 
and wands. Rumor has it that the chancel is enchanted 
to ward against evildoers, protecting the altar and 
its platinum dagger and chalice. The cathedral’s real 
treasures are kept underground and include a lock of 
Hecate’s silvery hair and a bottled piece of her sacred 
shadow, both relics of the faith. They are brought out 
for pilgrims to see each full moon and new moon.
Sixty Cyclopean Tombs. Outside the city of Soriglass 
but always moving in its wake when the ground 
shifts and the land ebbs or flows, the Sixty Tombs 
are a cluster of mausoleums and pillared shrines 
with occasional obelisks. Their script it not related 
to modern Umbral but to an ancient dialect, and the 
bones found within them are more akin to those of 
ogres or trollkin than to humans or fey: heavy, tall, 
and of an imposing scale. Hidden passages, buried 
tombs, and major undead are always rumored to 
live among the Sixty Tombs, though few know quite 
where to find them. Necromancers and priests of 
Charun often visit to investigate their mysteries. 
Tenebrous Plain 
A plain of tall, luscious grass downstream from 
the Forest of the Firebirds stretches out around 
a tributary of the River Lethe. Gnarled trees and 
skeletal, leafless shrubs contrast sharply with the 
serene greenspace. The shadows cast by the plants, 
both living and dead, fall in strange directions with 
some stretching farther than others. 
A fast-moving tributary flows through the plain, 
winding its way around clumps of vegetation. This 
offshoot of the River Lethe is fickle, alternating 
between flowing with the same inky blackness as most 
water sources in the Shadow Realm and running as 
clear and cool as the most refreshing stream in elven 
lands, based on the whim of Oma Rattenfanger (see 
Chapter 9), the Keeper of the Plain. 
It is difficult to say what causes her to show such 
generosity, but tales tell of countless mortals who 
make offerings in the Tenebrous Plain, eager for 
the untainted water. On some occasions, the inky 
blackness disappears from the riverbed, leaving 
behind perfectly drinkable water. However, tales also 
tell of ungrateful young adventurers greedily guzzling 
the clear water only to have it swirl with black motes 
Pits of the Roachlings 
While many regions of the Shadow Realm resemble the 
mortal world, some areas adrift in the shadows are much 
stranger than that. In particular, the Pits of the Roachlings 
are an entirely bizarre form of terrain made by congealing, 
spinning, and reforming the raw shadow into what can 
best be described as demonic termite mounds or perhaps 
hollow dunes and curved pits. A roachling pit of this kind 
is usually found on the plains where it appears as a gentle 
hollow or dip in the landscape with an enticing body of 
water at the bottom surrounded by reeds or trees. The 
water is indeed pure rainwater, drinkable and crisp—but 
the gentle slope around that water is often quite slippery, 
making it difficult to leave the area around the water. 
Creatures must make a strong effort to climb back up the 
slope, requiring a DC 15 Strength (Athletics) check. 
At other times, the roachling pit may resemble a set 
of stones or a small mesa (again, usually with a pure 
water spring) that sinks into the shadowy plain when 
approached. Creatures that stay near the water overnight 
or for a long rest slowly sink with the stones and the pool 
of water, and on waking, may find themselves 30 or 40 feet 
below the level of the surroundings. The walls of the pit 
are commonly pockmarked with niches, tunnels, and small 
dwelling spaces, often inhabited.
In either case, the nearby ground is riddled with 
roachling (see Tome of Beasts) tunnels—and various lesser 
demons and devils such as rattok (see Creature Codex), 
quasits, imps, and lemures may make their homes 
there as well. True to their heritage, roachlings can indeed 
survive almost anywhere, including in the Shadow Realm. 
Their communities rely on trapping various game (which 
roachlings can devour without danger of corruption) and on 
a limited amount of trade with the more civilized races.
The primary foe of the roachlings are darakhul, who 
find roachling flesh entirely palatable. The Twilight Empire 
organizes frequent “roach hunts” on the Whispering Plains 
and elsewhere to feed its expanding population.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 135 ---
135
Realms Beyond the Courts
while they’re drinking it. Some say lost souls who 
have been mistreated by those they revered are likely 
to find aid from Oma Rattenfanger, but others say 
such individuals are never seen again, recruited into 
her eternal service. 
HIDDEN DANGERS
While most creatures of the Shadow Realm avoid 
Oma Rattenfanger’s domain, there are still plenty 
of dangers awaiting those who travel the Tenebrous 
Plain. Oma Rattenfanger is the keeper not just of the 
plain itself but of its inhabitants too, including the 
orphans of the black (see Tome of Beasts 2). These 
feral, childlike creatures were mistreated youths who 
seek revenge on those in positions of authority. While 
orphans of the black are not often loyal creatures, 
those from the Tenebrous Plain are fiercely devoted 
to Oma Rattenfanger. Anyone attempting to harm 
her must contend with these savage souls.
Oma Rattenfanger has granted sanctuary to other 
creatures seeking shelter from the mortal world or 
from other portions of the realm. Shadow-touched 
plants such as shadow blights and razorleafs 
(see Creature Codex for both) find comfort in Oma’s 
domain. Others, such as a grove of weeping treants 
(see Tome of Beasts), have been on the Tenebrous 
Plain as long as Oma and watch over both the keeper 
and the plain. A single feyward tree (see Tome of 
Beasts) roams the plain, protecting the area from fey 
creatures looking to trespass. It doesn’t harm Oma or 
those in her care though, a mystery the tree’s victims 
do not have a chance to solve.
Twilight Empire 
The Empire of the Ghouls exists in the Crossroads 
region of Midgard and beyond, tunneling through the 
mortal world. But the darakhul are also active in the 
Shadow Realm, and their empire here is, if anything, 
even more dangerous, as it relies on alliances with 
shadow dragons and a cave dragon lich, Dreadwing.
Their ability to walk shadow roads and to visit 
Evermaw, the planar realm of the undead, also 
makes the Shadow Realm’s darakhul exceptionally 
dangerous. The realm is ruled by an emperor who 
considers Nicoforus his “imperial cousin,” and the 
two nations seem to exchange ambassadors, trade 
in goods, and conduct various supporting activities 
to aid one another as might two somewhat distant 
nations in any other realm. 
The primary difference is that the ghouls in the 
Shadow Realm have the ability to feed on the strange 
trees of the Crackling Forests (which means they 
hunt and devour humanoids somewhat less often)—
plus they are fewer in number here compared to other 
undead realms or even in most human lands, where 
the undead are a larger presence.
To the north and west of the Blackwood where 
the shadow fey dwell lies a great pit in the Shadow 
Realm’s landscape. A series of deep depressions 
gouge the dark earth, diving deep into thick shadows 
and darkened tunnels. In these Black Iron Depths 
thrives an exiled arm of the Ghoul Empire known as 
the Twilight Empire. These darkness-touched ghouls 
thrive in the shadow of the Ironcrags, searching for 
a way to breach the barrier between darkness and 
light. Their undead bodies absorb the essence of 
shadow through the flesh of their meals (shadow fey 
and other living creatures of the realm), and every 
ghoul of the Twilight Empire bears the mark of that 
shadow—their teeth appear pitch black. 
Driven out of the Ghoul Empire after a failed coup, 
renegade ghouls fled deep into the Underworld. 
Starving and broken, they found a shadow road in a 
lightless cavern filled with twisted abominations. The 
Crackling Forests
Originally found in the Dry Lands of Evermaw, these 
alien trees are not green and woody but rather 
cartilaginous masses of splintered bone with leathery 
leaves, and they exude an air of menace and move 
rather more vigorously than normal trees (though not 
enough to fight off a ghoul or woodsman). A rather 
small number of these trees now grow in the Shadow 
Realm, imported from Evermaw, but getting more of 
them to survive and flower is extremely difficult, for 
the ghouls devour the saplings too quickly to amass a 
proper forest.
When cut or broken, the trees themselves bleed a 
black milk that undead find nourishing and pleasant 
(though living creatures describe it variously as 
rancid, foul, or rotten). Ghouls, vampires, and other 
corporeal undead delight in cracking open the hairy 
bark and gorging themselves on the thick syrup. For 
such creatures, devouring a pint of black milk is as 
restorative as devouring a living creature.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 136 ---
136
Book of Ebon Tides
ensuing battle and bloodshed briefly activated the 
road, and the commander of the traitorous legion led 
his troops into the Shadow Realm. 
The road led the ragged ghouls into the shadows. 
The ghouls collapsed the tunnel behind them, sealing 
the shadow road and blocking pursuit. Safe from 
further reprisal, they set about building a new empire. 
Bargol’s Watch. This small, fortified manor house 
and its outbuildings protect a small village of tanners 
and bonecutters and serves as the unofficial embassy 
between the darakhul and the fey—and occasionally 
between the darakhul and the umbral vampires of 
Oshragora, when that strange city drifts close by. The 
steward of the watch is a hard case, a former leader 
of the legions’ shock troops who was retired here 
after he lost his right hand to fey magic: Captain 
Ingelmarr Rothand despises the shadow fey, gnomes, 
anything light and cheerful. He keeps the holding in 
fine condition, marches and drills his small garrison 
frequently, and generally tolerates no nonsense and 
encourages no untoward laughter, carousing, or joy 
of any kind among his troops. He spends most of his 
time in the Great Tower, which stands 70 feet tall and 
commands an excellent view of the chasm nearby.
The troops mostly hate him except for his 
lieutenant, Valmira Brandorf, a warlock who spends 
most of her time conjuring spirits, imps, and animal 
spies to gather information from the manor’s visitors. 
Bearfolk merchants, fey road wardens, even gnomish 
distillers all occasionally visit the house to trade 
Twilight Empire
Ruler: Emperor Vilmos Marquering, the Black Fang (NE 
darakhul general, see Chapter 9)
Important Personages: Duchess Angvyr Ssetha 
the Lady of Chains, Slave Mistress of Chaingard (LE 
darakhul captain, see Tome of Beasts 2); Duchess 
Mikalea Soulreaper, Lorekeeper of Ossean (NE darakhul 
necrophage, use necromancer, see Creature Codex); 
Duke Borag the Executioner, Warlord of Gallwheor 
(NE darakhul captain, see Tome of Beasts 2); Duke 
Eloghar Vorghesht, Regent of Evernight (NE darakhul 
high priest of Vardesain, see Creature Codex); 
Duke Wierdunn Bonehand, Warden of Blackstone 
(LE darakhul captain, see Tome of Beasts 2); First 
Captain Ingelmarr Rothand, Steward of Bargol’s Watch 
(LE darakhul gladiator); Her Witchlight Resplendence 
Tiberessa Vert (LE darakhul priest of Santerr Illosi); His 
Carmine Eminence and High Patriarch of Zhurahk, Devros 
Perghallen (LE darakhul priest of Vardesain); Kassimir 
Valengurd the Confessor, adviser to the Black Iron Throne 
(NE darakhul necrophage, use archmage); Protector of 
Souls Sen-Nefer (LN darakhul priest of Anu-Akma)
Population: 65,000 (30,000 slaves [various bearfolk, 
elves, umbral humans, shadow goblins, shadow fey], 
10,000 lesser ghouls and ghasts, 7,000 darakhul, 6,000 
imperial ghouls, and 6,000 shadow goblins), plus Zhurakh 
houses one legion of 6,000 active soldiers (90 percent of 
which is lesser ghouls and ghasts)
Capital: Zhurakh, City of Bone and Iron, population 
15,000 (6,000 slaves, 2,500 lesser ghouls and ghasts and 
500 darakhul, plus one legion of 6,000 ghouls) 
Enclaves: Chaingard, population 2,300 (1,200 slaves, 
870 lesser ghouls and ghasts, 200 imperial ghouls, and 
30 darakhul); Gallwheor, population 1,000 (600 slaves, 
250 lesser ghouls, 100 iron ghouls, and 50 darakhul); 
Blackstone, population 750 (450 lesser ghouls and 
ghasts, 200 slaves, and 100 imperial darakhul); Evernight, 
population 700 (350 lesser ghouls and ghasts, 200 slaves, 
100 darakhul, and 50 priests of Vardesain); Ossean, 
population 600 (400 slaves, 100 lesser ghouls and ghasts, 
50 necrophagi, and 50 darakhul sages and scholars); 
Bargol’s Watch, population 350 (200 slaves, 100 ghouls, 
and 50 darakhul) 
Great Gods: Vardesain (patron), Anu-Akma, Mavros, 
Santerr Illosi, and Sarastra
Trade Goods: Iron, weapons, armor, gemstones, 
and relics from the City Fallen into Shadow (in order of 
importance)
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 137 ---
137
Realms Beyond the Courts
goods with the darakhul or trade information about 
the position of Oshragora or the movements 
of elder shadow drakes.
Blackstone. Home to the Twilight Empire’s shock 
troops, the Ravenous Legion, Blackstone broods 
over one of the few roads into the Black Iron Depths, 
guarded by the gate-fortress Gloomhold. The warden 
of Blackstone, Duke Wierdunn Bonehand, scours 
the populace for ghouls strong and cruel enough 
to join the Ravenous Guard, a group of a hundred 
imperial ghouls. Blackstone is also home to the 
Temple of the Faceless Warden, home to the faith 
of Anu‑Akma among the darakhul. Its chief priest is 
the Protector of Souls Sen-Nefer.
Chaingard. The largest settlement on the 
surface, just on the edge of the Black Iron 
Depths, Chaingard stands as the 
foreboding main gateway into the 
Twilight Empire. This city serves 
as the receiving point for all 
slave traffic. Duchess Angvyr 
Ssetha, the Lady of Chains, 
oversees the slave supply with meticulous efficiency. 
She enjoys greeting high-ranking emissaries to the 
empire in a haughty, sneering manner. The Shackled 
Legion guards the walls and gates, directing the flow 
of slaves with brutal efficiency. Despite its title as a 
legion, it is a motley group of hunters, slavers, and 
guards more familiar with cruelty than a battlefield. 
Evernight. Hewn from the black stone and iron 
ore of the depths, Evernight sits on the edge of 
a dark lake. Ruled by Duke Eloghar Vorghesht, 
high priest of Vardesain, Evernight is the center 
of faith for the empire. A grand cathedral to the 
ghoul god dominates the city’s center, its black altar 
stained darker with the blood and flesh of countless 
sacrifices. The Midnight Company of 100 elite 
darakhul defends the city, boasting warrior clerics 
and dark reflections of paladins among its ranks. 
Gallwheor. Whereas Blackstone produces 
terrifying shock troops, Gallwheor provides the finest 
tactical minds in the Twilight Empire. Duke Borag 
the Executioner, Warlord of Gallwheor, never lost a 
battle during his time in the Ghoul Empire or since 
their exile into the Shadow Realm. The Headsmen 
are a group of assassins and stealthy killers known 
for their deadly efficient strikes to the heart of any 
opposing force. Rumor has it they have slain bearfolk 
nobles, fey ladies, and gnomish princes who spoke 
against the emperor.
Kaerim’s Deep. Widely believed to be the work 
of the ghouls, this deep canyon is not known to 
be inhabited by the darakhul, bearfolk, or others. 
Occasionally pale giants or cave dragons are seen 
on its narrow paths and tunnels, but the region is 
avoided by most. 
Ossean. The first stop after the steep and perilous 
Clanking Descent from Chaingard, down the sheer 
cliffs of the Black Iron Depths, Ossean receives first 
pick of any new shipment of slaves. Amid the bone-
clad buildings, the Twilight Empire’s necrophages 
labor and study under the direction of Duchess 
Mikalea Soulreaper, Lorekeeper of Ossean. Her 
apprentices and loyal necrophages hone their 
practice and ply the secrets from the flesh and souls 
of captives, guarded by the Bone Company’s arcane 
and martial might. Its ranks swell not just with 
stout ghouls but also with dark wizards, darakhul 
necrophages, and eldritch knights who blend arcane 
magic with the strength of steel. 
In addition, the settlement hosts a powerful 
priestess of Santerr Illosi, Her Witchlight 
Resplendence Tiberessa Vert. She has for decades 
built a repository of scrolls, tomes, and grimoires, 
chronicling the ghoul expansion and the unique 
fusion of shadow magic with necromancy (see also 
Chapter 4). She has also befriended nearly 100 
witchlights, who seem to enjoy her company and 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 138 ---
138
Book of Ebon Tides
sometimes carry messages for her in some form of 
luminous code. A dozen or more always accompany 
her like a veil of lights.
Zhurakh, City of Bone and Iron. The deepest city of 
the Black Iron Depths, Zhurakh serves as the seat of 
the Twilight Emperor and as the unbeating heart of 
the empire. The Twilight Emperor learned from his 
failed coup, and his secret police saturate every level 
of the city, ever watchful for signs of dissent. For this 
reason, would-be conspirators avoid the City of Bone 
and Iron completely. 
Nearby, the Endless Falls take a seemingly endless 
plunge into the black depths of the Shadow Realm. 
This is the Twilight Emperor’s favorite place to deal 
with traitors and criminals, personally casting them 
into the depths. The most elite twilight soldiers, 
the Blackmaw Legion, stand ready to enforce the 
emperor’s will. 
In addition, Zhurakh is the seat of the Carmine 
Temple of Vardesain and the seat of power of the red-
handed master of the faith, His Carmine Eminence 
and High Patriarch of Zhurahk, Devros Perghallen. 
The temple itself is carved of disquieting red stone 
that seems to ripple and move in torchlight, the walls 
resembling a bloody abattoir. The place is a source of 
power for the entire priesthood, carved with sacred 
writings and with a new testament of corruption, 
praising the lord of hunger and confirming his 
blessings on Emperor Vilmos. The temple is the seat 
and first house of the inquisitors of Vardesain, who 
enforce the feeding laws and keep a watchful eye on 
the darakhul and their servants alike.
EMPEROR IN EXILE 
Vilmos Marquering, called the Black Fang, once 
commanded the Iron Legion in the White City in 
the mortal lands. His coup was well planned and 
brilliantly executed. He turned key conspirators to his 
cause, several close to the true emperor, and those he 
couldn’t turn he killed and replaced with loyal cat’s-
paws. When he struck, Vilmos learned just how deep 
the emperor’s secrets ran and how woefully inadequate 
all those careful preparations truly were. He barely 
escaped, and the most powerful warriors of his legion 
were reduced to dust by the emperor’s magic. With 
what must have been Vardesain’s intervention, Vilmos 
and his surviving allies fled to the Shadow Realm. 
The Twilight Emperor now rules from his Black 
Iron Throne in the heart of the Black Iron Depths. 
Vilmos reforged the battered remnants of his coup 
into a fighting force and anointed his five most 
trusted lieutenants as his dukes. Each duke assumed 
command of a city within the Depths and sought 
to raise a twilight legion to defend that stronghold 
in the Twilight Emperor’s name. The Black Fang is 
wary of even these trusted advisers, for he remembers 
that betrayal arises from those closest to power—
and thus he keeps these half-legions weak enough 
that they cannot challenge him. Further, their 
commanders’ devotion is enforced through magic, 
by a black‑mithral bracer recovered from a strange 
ruin near the Depths. If any of his dukes turn on him, 
they’ll swiftly find themselves at the points of their 
own legion’s weapons. 
The Coming of the Ghouls / from the Book of Ebon Tides
The ghouls came to the shadows already half-corrupted, and they 
took to the shaping of the land with uncommon speed and tireless 
efficiency. Their necrophages quickly mastered the art of fixing 
land into a permanent form, and their use of rune-marked bone 
wands to break the forests, fields, and walls of other inhabitants 
of shadow makes them much-feared. Their numbers remain 
relatively small compared to the shadow fey, goblins, humans, 
and bearfolk, but their arcane aggression and wild ambition make 
them extremely dangerous. Their gods have already carved a bloody 
home for them from the land, and it seems to threaten all their neighbors. 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 139 ---
Book of Ebon Tides
DEALINGS WITH DARKNESS 
The Twilight Empire has grown swiftly. They make 
regular raids on the living: communities of fey, the 
Moonlit Glades, goblin settlements, and any other 
breathing creatures they can find. The twilight ghouls 
manage their food sources efficiently, and they rarely 
suffer a ravenous beggar ghoul to exist among them. 
Living in the Shadow Realm means greater 
difficulty in finding sources of living flesh, so the 
twilight ghouls forged peaceful contact with the 
shadow fey courts. Since the shadow fey control 
the vast majority of shadow roads, they can arrange 
passage for ghoul raiding parties to the mortal world 
and ensure their safe return with their precious cargo 
of “food.” In return, the Twilight Emperor assigns 
legionnaires to help maintain shadow roads that pass 
through particularly dangerous sections of the realm 
as well as those known to draw unwanted trespassers. 
The Queen of Night and Magic found the sudden 
appearance of a ghoul empire intriguing and amuses 
herself by keeping tabs on their doings. Lately, she 
has grown concerned at the increasing ghoul activity 
in and around the City Fallen into Shadow. Their 
activities somehow elude her most powerful magic 
and her canniest spies. She contents herself with the 
strange magical relics the ghouls unearth through 
trade and favor for the time being, but that won’t last 
long. Her Majesty isn’t known for patience once her 
curiosity is aroused. 
Ever since the chance discovery of the Twilight 
Emperor’s magical bracer within a splinter of the City 
Fallen into Shadow, the Black Fang’s ambitions have 
kindled anew. He hasn’t forgotten his humiliating 
defeat and still dreams of one day returning to the 
mortal world and seizing power in the Underworld. 
The umbral vampires and their city suggest a means. 
The Black Fang charged his necrophages to learn 
everything they could about the umbral vampires. 
The cost has been steep, for gleaning secrets from the 
vampires has lost several a ghoul wizard their sanity, 
but it has been worthwhile. The Twilight Emperor 
now knows of an artifact orrery hidden deep within 
the City Fallen into Shadow that can give its wielder 
mastery over time and space, said to be hidden in 
the Storm Tower of Oshragora. He currently lacks 
the forces to strike into the city, so he sends scouting 
parties to search for signs of the so-called Eye of Veles. 
RAIDS TO THE MORTAL WORLD 
The Shadow Realm ghouls thrive in the Black Iron 
Depths, but that doesn’t mean they are all content. 
Many harbor deep resentment because of their 
exile, and they channel that sullen anger in different 
directions. The cadres of lesser ghouls who blame the 
Twilight Emperor for his failure and for dragging 
them into exile don’t have the stomach to take direct 
action against their new empire, but these pockets 
of resistance are starting to organize. The hidden 
traitors know the road home is a long one, but they’re 
working to recruit allies of higher station and with 
greater knowledge who share their discontent. If they 
can find a legion officer or a necrophage wizard who 
understands what they’ve lost, they might discover a 
way to return to the Ghoul Empire. 
The loyal ghouls, on the other hand, know that 
just on the other side of an intangible but nearly 
impenetrable barrier awaits a nation of flesh and 
blood unaware of the danger that essentially walks 
among them. These ghouls hunger for dwarf flesh 
and have turned their efforts to finding paths through 
the veil between the Shadow Realm and Midgard, 
seeking to open the floodgates for the slaves, food, 
and death waiting in the Ironcrag Cantons and the 
Crossroads region of the mortal world.
Connections to Evermaw:  
The Road of Bones
In recent times, the twilight ghouls have made an 
effort to forge paths to the Evermaw—a planar realm 
of the undead ruled by Mot, god of the undead, and 
Vardesain, god of hunger. As part of this, a black path 
called the Road of Bones has been laid from the palace 
in Zhurakh, which requires blood magic to open and 
leads directly to Evermaw. Darakhul, satarre, vampires, 
fiends, and others find this an extremely useful and 
direct method of crossing from plane to plane, and the 
emperor collects a toll for using the road. It is unclear 
how the necrophages and priests of Vardesain built 
it, and the shades of Soriglass are mad with curiosity 
to understand how it was formed. The Road of Bones 
brings stability, trade, and income to the empire from 
both sides. 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 140 ---
140
Book of Ebon Tides
The gods of the Shadow Realm are a strange mix of 
those of the fey and those of the dark and with a few 
borrowed gods from the bearfolk, from the Nurians, 
and from the darker divine realms. The gods rarely 
found elsewhere are those gods of the shadow 
goblins and the bearfolk, whose worship is less 
common in the mortal world and whose mysteries 
in shadow are more powerful and more useful in the 
Shadow Realm’s twilight forests. 
Some of them offer access to the Keeper and 
Shadow domains (see Chapter 3). 
Great Gods of the  
Umbral Pantheon
Hecate, Ailuros, Anu-Akma, Bengta, and Charun 
are the most widely worshipped and recognized 
gods of the Shadow Realm. Even if they are not 
worshipped in a particular settlement or nation, they 
are known by name, and their many temples, groves, 
and worshippers outstrip both the lesser godlings 
and the dark gods. 
Umbral Pantheon 
Umbral Pantheon 
8
AILUROS (BASTET)
Goddess of Deer and Hunters; Queen 
of Perfumes; True Child of Aten; 
Mother of Alchemy; Patron of the 
Alseid; Wife to the Endless Ocean; 
Mistress of All Hounds
Domains: Cat*, Hunting*, 
Lust*, Moon*
Alignment: Chaotic 
Favored Weapon: Bow and arrow 
Ailuros is the wild and free goddess of moonlit 
nights and joyous hunting, a force for chaos and the 
patron of the alseid. With her hounds at her side, her 
lithe form, and her glowing moonlit arrows, she is 
sometimes thought of as half-fey herself, a member 
of the Great Hunt. She is a goddess of excellence and 
desire, the patron goddess of perfumers, alchemists, 
and those whose trade is beauty. With the scent of the 
trees and woodland streams in her hair, she and her 
hounds hunt wolves, foxes, and wild boar, protecting 
the livestock and crops of farmers and shepherds as 
well as driving away vermin.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 141 ---
141
Umbral Pantheon
Gods and Masks 
Similar to the deities of Midgard, the gods of the Shadow 
Realm are not individuals but rather archetypes or 
incarnations of universal forces. They aren’t people in the 
same sense that individual mortals are. Though they all 
arise from the strength of their priests and the cosmos, 
the same god can look and act entirely differently from 
one region to another. The beliefs of the faithful similarly 
vary from place to place, even among those who purport 
to worship the same deity. Many gods of the Shadow 
Realm go by multiple names and even switch gender and 
appearance when it suits them. 
As a result, the gods are unknowable and mysterious, 
and their faiths embody shifting channels of power. 
Savants believe that only five or six gods might truly 
thrive in a city, perhaps only three in a town, and one in 
a village. Shrines devoted to more than a few gods rarely 
prosper—the priests of these supernumerary gods find 
that their ability to heal or to intercede with the faithful 
through divine magic is limited: their power is constrained 
to a single domain, their prayers go unheard, and their 
sacrifices are of no consequence. But the heart has 
room for many gods. Faith in the Shadow Realm is not 
a matter of choosing a single god but of choosing the 
right god for a particular need or occasion. In practical 
terms, this means that pantheist priests (see the Midgard 
Heroes Handbook or the Southlands Player’s Guide) are 
sometimes found in the Shadow Realm. 
The gods seem determined to hide their true identities 
from worshippers, and sometimes they pretend to be 
other gods entirely. This sort of deception is common: 
Ailuros might be Bastet and Bengta might be Isis. 
Although malleable and changeable, each of the gods 
of the Shadow Realm retains a core identity that the 
god’s faithful recognize, even if some of the details might 
change. The true god, they say, casts different shadows for 
different worshippers.
Her hair is golden, her clothes made for the hunt. 
A solar or lunar disk hovers over her head, and she 
wears bracelets in the form of deer or serpents. 
Worshippers 
Ailuros attracts a strange medley of worshippers in 
keeping with her wild and freedom-loving nature: 
alchemists, trappers, dancers, perfumers, tailors, 
and vintners adore her as do many among the alseid, 
catfolk, elfmarked, gnomes, and halflings. Gnolls 
occasionally offer her sacrifices, though they tend to 
call her Bastet.
Symbols and Books 
Ailuros’s symbol is a deer, her sacred animal. She is 
also often depicted with bow and arrow, her hunting 
weapons, and with her hounds. 
Ailuros has relatively few sacred texts. The Path of 
the Huntress is a volume of hymns, parables, hunting 
lore, and even poetry sacred to her followers. The 
Grove of Sirens is a collection of esoteric prophecies, 
revelations, perfumer’s lore, and guidance for 
blessing the making of incense and guiding hunters. 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 142 ---
142
Book of Ebon Tides
Shrines and Priests 
Ailuros accepts only women into the priesthood, 
though men are welcome as worshippers. Some of her 
priestesses are alseid, werewolves, or bearfolk, and 
many are also alchemists, hunters, rangers, or trackers. 
Her greatest shrine in the Shadow Realm is the 
Scented Church of Merrymead, where the Fragrant 
Servant Sayzanette Belleflor leads the faithful, most of 
them bearfolk, in prayer and ritual.
Masks 
Ailuros is called Bastet in Corremel, and she is 
often associated with the Hunter. Sometimes she 
is associated with gods of the eastern winds or with 
draconic gods of fragrance, gambling, and luck.
Other Faiths 
Temples of Ailuros and her priestesses are on excellent 
terms with worshippers of various elven gods, and her 
priestesses are sometimes elves. Anu-Akma’s priests 
respect those of Ailuros, who provide perfumes and 
incense used in the death god’s rites. Baccholon treats 
her with respect and fondness. The Hunter also often 
seems to find common cause with Ailuros. 
Her enemies are the dark goddess Marena (who 
perverts both lust and death), the moon goddess 
Hecate (who dares intrude on Ailuros’s oversight of 
the moon), and the jealous faith of Kupkoresh (whose 
followers consider Bastet a demonic abomination, 
not a goddess at all). Her faith despises various 
vermin‑cults, such as reptilian gods, rat cults, and 
the like.
What Ailuros Demands 
Take pleasure in life and live for the day. Hunt and 
kill your food when you can. Take joy in destroying 
serpents. Visit the perfumers frequently and offer 
up gifts of scent and spice to the goddess’s altars. To 
divine the future, read the entrails of an enormous, 
unblemished animal, and sacrifice such a creature 
before any great endeavor.
Ailuros in Midgard
Ailuros is popular in the Grand Duchy of Bourgund, 
where stands the High Temple of Perfumed Night. This 
temple is the starting point of a shadow road into the 
city of Merrymead. The bearfolk know of this route to 
the mortal world, though they rarely mention it. 
Divine Domains
Some gods listed here provide their followers with access 
to cleric domains found elsewhere. These are marked 
with an asterisk (*) for Deep Magic and with a double 
dagger (‡) for Tome of Heroes. Domains described in this 
book can be found in Chapter 3.
ANU-AKMA
God of the Underworld; Judge of the Dead 
and Guardian of Tombs; Guide of the 
People of Khem; Purifier of Souls; Preserver 
of the Worthy; King of Jackals; Patron 
of the Gnolls and Ghouls 
Domains: Death, Justice*, Travel*
Alignment: Lawful 
Favored Weapon: Flail, scythe 
Among the golden sands of the Southern deserts, 
Anu-Akma guards the tombs of royalty and stands 
against the scourges of age, madness, and the evil 
undead. Deep underground, his worship as Akma-
Apophis takes a darker turn, combined with the rites 
of a devil he conquered long ago. There he is venerated 
as the greatest patron of the Ghoul Empire and Lord 
of the Underworld. And in that form, he came also to 
the Twilight Empire of the ghouls and thus into the 
Shadow Realm.
Anu-Akma promotes purity and preserves order, 
watching over the timely and dignified death of all. 
His priests anoint those of royal blood to rise again as 
mummies or liches, and gnoll mortuary guards and 
guides protect the vast ossuaries and cemeteries from 
desecration. 
His ghoulish followers, meanwhile, await each 
human or goblin burial as a new source of flesh for 
feasting while Anu-Akma preserves the souls of those 
unfortunate corpses. 
When portrayed by humans and desert folk, 
Anu-Akma is a tall and muscular jackal-headed man 
whose flesh seems made of the starry night sky. His 
eyes are golden, and he wears the garb of Southland 
royalty. Beneath the earth and in the Shadow Realm, 
his images portray a faceless darkness beneath heavy 
robes and mummy wrappings. He holds his arms 
wide, welcoming all into his cold domain. 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 143 ---
143
Umbral Pantheon
Worshippers 
Anu-Akma is worshipped by umbral humans of 
Southern heritage—especially the elderly and ill, 
hoping for an easy journey to the afterlife. The ghouls 
and darakhul also follow Anu‑Akma faithfully. 
Symbols and Books 
Anu-Akma’s symbols are a golden ankh and a golden 
scythe. In some cases, the scythe blade is curved 
inward, and the handles are placed so that the scythe 
resembles an ankh. Other symbols include the 
vulture, three human skulls, or a human skull with 
golden ankhs painted around its eye sockets. 
His most famous holy text is The Preservation of 
Bodies and Migration of Souls. The funerary wrappings 
of AnuAkma’s high priests include the complete text. 
Shrines and Priests 
Anu-Akma’s temples are warm, small, and 
comfortable for the elderly and infirm. Divinations 
tell his followers when death approaches, and they are 
encouraged to move into a temple, eating and growing 
strong for their journey into the Underworld. These 
temples are guarded against the unclean ghouls that 
whisper lies and horrors to the faithful. The current 
high priest in the Shadow Realm is Protector of Souls 
Sen-Nefer of the Twilight Empire in Blackstone.
Masks 
The greatest mask of Anu-Akma is Anubis. The two 
are so conjoined that no one is certain which face 
is the true one. Charun is rumored to be a mask of 
Anu-Akma, and both churches distrust each other. 
Darker still, the hunger god Vardesain might be 
a mask of Anu-Akma. Among the ghouls, he is 
sometimes called the Earth Father and confused with 
Charun or Khespotan.
Other Faiths 
Anu-Akma pretends to be a servant, but those who 
know him see a king. When his priests meet those 
of other faiths, they know the truth of things and 
conduct themselves accordingly. In the end, even the 
priests of other gods rest in the tombs and cemeteries 
that Anu-Akma watches. 
What Anu-Akma Demands 
Respect the ghosts and spirits of the ancestors and 
their resting places. Rob no tomb. You are the purifier 
of life and a custodian of death, so prepare those 
around you for their journey and destination. Remind 
even the youngest that time is short. Be strict and 
efficient in your work: laziness serves no one, least of 
all yourself. Destroy anyone who blasphemes against 
the paradise of the Underworld.
BENGTA THE  
BEAR MAIDEN
Goddess of Dawn and Honey; Mother 
of Hives; Patron of the Bearfolk; 
Maiden of Morning; Saint of Sweet 
Lavender; Flower Bringer; Strength of 
the Mountain 
Domains: Justice*, Keeper (see Chapter 
3), Life, Nature
Alignment: Good
Favored Weapons: Battleaxe and greataxe
Bengta the Bear Maiden is the keeper of healthy 
communities and the champion who stands against 
all their threats. She is the ferocious aspect of Lada, 
the Goddess of Dawn, who takes the form of a radiant 
bearfolk. The Bear Maiden is much beloved in the 
Northlands where she is primarily worshipped. In 
addition to righteous wrath, Bengta presides over 
dawn, strength, and of course honey.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 144 ---
144
Book of Ebon Tides
The Bear Maiden is one mask of the Goddess Lada, 
though Bengta has her distinct and rich tapestry 
of legend and myth perpetuated by the citizens of 
Björnrike. Though most greatly championed by 
the bearfolk, who share the god’s form, human and 
dwarf healers, community leaders, berserkers, and 
merchants also worship Bengta’s golden radiance. 
In opposition to the gentle-hearted Lada, Bengta 
represents the righteous guardian who protects 
communities. The Bear Maiden is a leader who 
encourages order and cohesion, ensuring all members 
contribute to creating a successful whole, much 
like a colony of bees. The other side of this cohesive 
leadership is the staunch devotion to destroying 
threats that would threaten the community. This 
commitment to swift and righteous wrath is what sets 
Bengta apart from Lada’s kinder divine masks.
Tales of Bengta often depict her traveling the rough 
terrain of the Northlands, battling monsters that 
infringe upon the people she is sworn to protect. 
There are many tales centered on her dealings with 
the fey, in particular the great animal lords. The Bear 
Maiden’s weapon is said to be spun from the honey of 
the Queen of Bees herself, though none of the god’s 
enemies have survived to confirm this rumor.
Worshippers
Building and maintaining prosperous communities 
is a crucial aspect of the Bear Maiden’s worship, so 
she is becoming more popular among merchants of 
all stripes. Her straightforward devotion to making 
good things for good people is highly appealing to 
most dwarves, and it is not uncommon to find her 
worshippers amongst their ranks.
Bengta’s reputation as a keeper makes her popular 
among all people who travel in large, nomadic units. 
Many human berserkers, bearfolk warriors, hunters, 
and devoted parents are drawn to the Bear Maiden’s 
strength to protect what is most important to them.
Symbols and Books
The symbols of Bengta are many and include 
flowering honeysuckle, a single bee (or more often a 
trio of bees), or a radiant eye of gold and amber. The 
Bear Maiden’s sacred books include the Promise of 
Light (a book of prophecies, parables, and stories of 
kindness, forgiveness, and healing) and the Summer 
Book (a book of prayers, hymns, and blessings). Both 
are often made in lavish, hand-lettered editions, 
illuminated with red, green, blue, and orange inks in 
a frenzy of devotion and care—some of these volumes 
are warded against undead and shadow creatures and 
function as a permanent protection from evil and good 
spell with a radius of 10 feet.
Shrines and Priests
Shrines to Bengta often double as functioning 
apiaries. Bee products are produced and sold to local 
communities with a portion always reserved to offer 
to the goddess. It is not unknown for meaderies to 
also donate part of their profits to the Bear Maiden’s 
holy sites to cultivate good fortune. Priests of the Bear 
Maiden often hold key jobs in their communities. 
Bengta’s devoted most commonly serve as dedicated 
warriors, government leaders, healers, and farmers. 
Worshipping the goddess requires active participation 
in improving one’s social landscape, which means her 
priests and shrines rarely fit the cloistered model of 
other faiths.
The Coming of the Bearfolk / from the Book of Ebon Tides
The bearfolk wandered into the woods one day and found 
that there was evil falling in every shadow, that fey trickery 
was afoot . . . and some say, that they could not find 
their way home. The bearfolk are rich in moon magic, 
friends to all who mean no ill, and ferocious, raging 
enemies to liars, cheaters, and drunken deceivers. 
You shall have no better friend, and you can make 
no worse enemy than the bearfolk.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 145 ---
145
Umbral Pantheon
Masks
Bengta is widely thought of as a mask of 
Lada, the human goddess of the dawn and of 
healing. Bearfolk, of course, know that Lada is 
simply a furless, human mask of Bengta. Others 
believe Bengta appears to the dwarves as Ninkash.
Other Faiths
Bengta’s followers get along well with followers of 
Lada, Ninkash, Kupkoresh, and even Baccholon. 
They are enemies of Santerr Illosi’s devotees as well 
as all the dark gods. Alquam and the Goat of the 
Woods are especially her enemies.
What Bengta Demands
The Bear Maiden demands placing those who are 
cared for above all else. She requires selfless action 
and constant vigilance against evils that would affect 
close-knit groups. The Bear Maiden encourages her 
chosen to create joy and prosperity for all within their 
reach. And whenever this prosperity is threatened, 
she demands swift action to destroy the cause of 
said disturbance. A follower who spends their time 
industriously is likely to receive the god’s full favor.
CHARUN
God of Death; Master of the Rivers 
Styx and Lethe; Guardian of Souls; 
Watcher at the Door; Patron of 
Sailors and Gravediggers 
Domains: Death, Ocean*, 
Portal‡, Travel*
Alignment: Neutral 
Favored Weapon: Staff 
Charun oversees the passage of souls: at birth, at 
death, and in the afterlife, maintaining the proper 
steps along the natural roads. He protects planar 
travelers, especially mortals, from demons and 
celestials alike. Charun uses the undead as tools and 
servants, though he sees them as the damaged shells 
of his charges, holding only a few scattered memories. 
Darakhul, vampires, and liches gain higher regard in 
his eyes since they retain their personalities. Immortal 
creatures such as outsiders and the fey meet with 
Charun’s disapproval because all too often they trade 
in souls, disrupting their natural migration. 
Charun wears a hood in most depictions, and his 
features are never clear. Visions of the god include 
snakelike hair, a hooked nose, large boar tusks, heavy 
brows, cold blue or fiery eyes, or a long black beard. 
Most agree that his arms are pale cream, though 
others say Charun has blue or gray skin; all agree on 
the snake tattoos on his forearms. 
Worshippers 
All mortals worship Charun to some degree, for all 
things die, but those who see death on a regular basis 
become devoted followers: soldiers, executioners, 
necromancers, and the grieving. 
The Ghoul Empire considers Charun a weak god 
suited for slaves. There, Charun’s worship is part of 
Anu-Akma’s rites (secretly or openly), and Charun 
offers the hope of escape. Charun is one of relatively 
few gods worshipped by creatures of the planes, due 
to his control of planar rivers. 
Charun the Boatman is a popular figure among the 
sable elves and various river elves, who consider him 
a sheltering and welcoming figure after a long life. He 
is likewise popular among shadow fey, who see his 
control of the planes and of shadow roads as powerful 
and worthy of supplication. 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 146 ---
146
Book of Ebon Tides
Symbols and Books 
Charun’s symbol is a boat or an oar, but a few of his 
cults use a folded loop over a river. His holiest book 
is River Passage, which records his dirges and hymns. 
Chiron’s Coin explains the clergy’s duties.
Shrines and Priests 
Charun’s holiest sites are graveyards and rivers, and 
many of these connect to other planes. Temples to 
Charun provide midwifery, funerary services, and 
exorcisms. For a significant fee, his priests guide 
those venturing beyond the mortal realms. Undead 
are rare within church grounds but common in 
adjacent graveyards as guardians. All clergy must 
learn about healing, the undead, or the planes. 
Masks 
Anu-Akma and even Laughing Loki are rumored to 
be masks of Charun. In the Moonlit Glades of the 
Bearfolk, he is called Hod the Blind, god of caves 
and darkness, and considered a minor son of Wotan 
or perhaps a diminished form of Wotan himself. A 
few even claim the dark god Chernobog as one of 
Charun’s masks, but this is rank heresy among his 
faithful.
Other Faiths 
Charun frequently quarrels with Anu-Akma, who 
also claims ownership over the fate of souls, and with 
Sarastra, goddess of darkness and magic among the 
elves and shadow fey. Charun and the grain goddess 
Ceres are sometimes said to be lovers or married, 
though Ceres is a minor goddess at best in the 
Shadow Realm, overshadowed by Ailuros and others. 
What Charun Demands 
Bury the dead according to their rites. Leave no 
body to rot, not even those of enemies. Venture into 
darkness and learn to walk without light. Protect 
those entering this world and those leaving it. Honor 
the remains of the deceased and destroy rampaging 
undead and thieving immortals. Visit a gravesite at 
least once a week to maintain it and to meditate on 
the end of all things.
HECATE (SARASTRA)
Bringer of Magic; Lady of Darkness; 
Lady of Sighs; Lady of Tears; Opener 
of Doors; Mother of Twilight; the Queen 
of Night; Patron of the Sable Elves and 
Shadow Fey; Wife of the Ocean; Protector of 
the Shadow Realm
Domains: Darkness*, Knowledge, Labyrinth*, Moon*
Alignment: Evil 
Favored Weapon: Dagger, garrote 
The ways of the gods are inscrutable to mortals, and 
the ways of Hecate are likewise inscrutable to the 
gods. Hecate embodies change and transformation, 
and her actions seem haphazard. Her worshippers 
believe she uses her foreknowledge to improve the 
world while her detractors say her visions of the 
future have driven her insane. 
Hecate appears in three forms, depending on 
the aligned phases of the twin moons: some small 
splinter groups claim that her inner mysteries include 
the “light of a third moon” as a source of mystical 
power. Most worshippers venerate all her forms, but 
some favor one over the others. 
During the paired new moons, Hecate appears as 
the Lady of Darkness, a maiden who moves with a 
decisive and deadly grace. Capricious and vengeful, 
her followers are masters of poison, torture, and 
shadows. 
At the half-moons, she becomes the Lady of Sighs, 
a grown, dark-haired woman who appears in dreams 
to whisper arcane secrets to her followers. She opens 
all doors, including the one between life and death. 
She holds a key in one hand and a book in the other. 
Mysterious and aloof, she favors arcanists, fey, and 
shapechangers. 
Hecate’s full moon aspect is the Lady of Tears, 
elderly and benevolent and holding a lantern or lamp. 
White or gray-haired, she reveals the future to her 
servants as she grieves for the pain of the world. 
Worshippers 
Hecate is widely venerated in the shadow fey courts, 
among the goblins and trollkin, and even among the 
bearfolk and others. Her aspect in the Shadow Realm 
is a twin goddess and the source of all light, and she 
is often seen as less dangerous and more civilizing 
among umbral folk than that of her reputation in the 
mortal world of Midgard. Her largest followings are 
among humans in Corremel, the shadow goblins in 
Fandeval, and a growing congregation of darakhul 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 147 ---
147
Umbral Pantheon
in Soriglass and the Twilight Empire. Her temples 
are growing in importance after a long period when 
they were neglected, and her followers are optimistic 
about spreading the faith among the bearfolk.
In the bright lands outside of shadow, she is 
best regarded in the Seven Cities, on the minotaur 
island of Kyprion, and in Roshgazi and Cindass, the 
ancient minotaur homeland, as well as in the Green 
Duchy of Verrayne and the Magocracy of Allain. 
Most of her worshippers are human, but Hecate 
also commands sizable followings among kobolds, 
minotaurs, and lycanthropes. 
Symbols and Books 
Hecate’s symbols are the moon, the dagger, the key, 
the book, and the lamp, and her followers wear small 
amulets or pins with these symbols. For her priests, 
her most complex symbol is a triangle within a circle, 
representing her three forms and the moon. 
Hecate’s primary book of worship is the Book of 
Mysteries. It contains rituals and rules for any time 
of year and offers detailed instructions on how 
followers should live their daily lives. 
Her church holds numerous celebrations with the 
most important at Midsummer, the Harvest Moon, 
and the Hunter’s Moon. 
Shrines and Priests 
Hecate’s most famous Shadow Realm temples are 
soaring, curving edifices of glittering black and 
luminous white stone: notable examples stand in the 
Court of the Golden Oak; in Corremel; in Fandeval, 
the Cathedral of Dark Moons; and even a pilgrimage 
site in the ruins of Soriglass, the somewhat decayed 
Cathedral of the Luminous Moon, where two of her 
holy relics are often displayed. Her temples all have 
central rooms or shrines with certain rooms open to 
view the moon. Her most famous priestess is Salarra 
Mortre in Fandeval, though she also has several 
followers of note among the shadow fey. 
Masks 
To most, Hecate is her masks, and each of her many 
faces deserves worship. It does not matter if some 
claim another name for her, such as Thoth or Athena 
in the mortal lands. Many elves and shadow fey 
believe Hecate is a mask of Sarastra, but this view is 
not widely held among her human followers. A few 
of her enemies claim her chaos and darkness are a 
friendlier face for the Goat of the Woods.
Other Faiths 
Hecate has always held herself apart from other 
gods and their worshippers. Her enemies include 
Ailuros, a rival goddess of the moon, and followers 
of Kupkoresh, the sun god, as well as of Anu-Akma, 
who claims her mysteries as corrupting. Her allies 
include the elvish Sarastra as well as Bengta and 
Santerr Marossa. 
What Hecate Demands 
Seek and acquire knowledge and learn magic or 
shapeshifting if you can. Follow the mysteries and 
obey the orders of her chosen unquestioningly. 
Attend her services at least once a week. Speak many 
languages and revere the spirits of the dead. All items 
of magic and transformation belong to the goddess. 
Keep no secrets from her priests.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 148 ---
148
Book of Ebon Tides
Godlings of the  
Shadow Realm
These seven demigods and saints of shadow are not 
well-known outside the Shadow Realm, and their 
followers are relatively few compared to major figures 
such as Charun or Hecate. 
BACCHOLON (BACCHO)
God of Poetry; Lord of Wine; Master of 
Revels, Golden Words, and Charming 
Courtesies; King of Lust and Chaos; Warden 
of Shadow Roads; Lion Lord of Shapeshifters; 
Keeper of Prophecies; God of the Third Eye; 
Patron of the Nymphs and Satyrs 
Domains: Beer (called Wine)*, Death, 
Lust*, Prophecy*, Travel* 
Alignment: Chaotic 
Favored Weapons: Shortbow 
Baccholon was once the Prince of Courtesies and 
Master of the Elves, their patron and paragon. And 
when the elves left the mortal world and returned to 
the Summer Lands, he led the procession in person, 
flowers in his hair and a song on his lips. His human 
and elfmarked followers fell into a long despair, 
filled with bouts of madness and drunkenness and 
bitter wrath. His temples fell into disuse or were 
reconsecrated to Charun or other gods. Baccholon’s 
echo is still felt, his poetic hymns and joyous image 
carved in old elven halls and buildings, but his priests 
are vanishingly few and often not notably different 
from beggars and starving poets. A few of his order 
remember the heights of elven ritual magic, but this 
could be mere speculation or wishful dreaming—
something the god’s followers have always been 
prone to. 
Worshippers 
Baccholon’s few yet vivid worshippers include a 
debauched followings among certain noble houses, 
young poets, vintners, seers, and shapeshifters. Oddly 
enough, he has a small following among the dwarves, 
ravenfolk, satyrs, and bearfolk, especially among 
bear-shifters, wolf reavers, and doom croakers, who 
consider him a patron martyr for shifters and seers. 
Symbols and Books 
Baccholon’s sacred books are many and 
contradictory. Charges of heresy and false prophecy 
divide his followers into competing groups. 
His symbol is an amphora or a blue-green-glazed 
faience—and sometimes a roaring lion. 
Shrines and Priests 
Baccholon’s shrines were once as ubiquitous among 
the shadow fey as among the elves, gnomes, and alseid. 
The followers of the Laughing Prince have slowly 
fallen into decay and neglect though, and his tavern-
shrines are now found principally in Dalliance (with 
the Shrine of Silver Laughter) and Langmire’s Court 
(with the Sign of the Twin Cups). Prayers, offerings, 
and blessings are part of the fare at the shrines as are 
gambling, dancing, and imbibing, so they double as 
favorite meeting places for the lesser nobles.
Masks
Baccholon is sometimes associated with Laughing 
Loki, Ailuros, or Bengta, though these connections 
are tenuous at best. Others believe that Baccholon 
has been corrupted and is a 
mask of a dark goddess, the 
Goat of the Woods.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 149 ---
149
Umbral Pantheon
Other Faiths
Baccholon finds the followers of Ninkash crude 
and unworthy. He also seems to have a great dislike 
for “Mother Holda,” whom he finds suffocating, 
and “Father Valeresh,” whom he finds too pushy. 
Baccholon’s charm is great but so is his disdain for 
everyone who does not acknowledge his glory.
What Baccholon Demands 
Make art and celebrate life to the fullest. Leave no 
stone unturned and unpainted. Rage, love, and make 
your mark on all things. Embrace the dragon and the 
lamb, for both are your children.
GYTELLISOR
God of Poetry and Wisdom; Child of 
the Stars; Lord of Rhetoric; Keeper of 
Secrets; Patron of Artists, Scribes, and 
Dreamers; Lord of Lost Horizons; 
Herald of the Far Shadow
Domains: Knowledge,  
Travel*, Void*
Alignment: Chaotic 
Favored Weapons: Rapier, staff
Gytellisor resembles a sable elf with fine garments, 
long hair, and delicate features. He is almost always 
shown either holding a book and reading or in an 
orator’s pose, declaiming to his faithful or reciting 
elven poetry. He often wears a scholar’s robes and a 
deep-purple crown of stars and lights.
Worshippers 
Shadow fey and sable elves alike adore Gytellisor—
in small doses. Always he is the subject of toasts at 
revels and coronations, at changes of the season and 
the births of children. But in darker times, in days 
of war or famine, his silver laughter is forgotten or 
at least frivolous. At those times, Gytellisor’s priests 
and adherents point to his hidden lore as a source of 
strength against any threat. Poets and scribes find 
him congenial, for his worship always involves poetry, 
songs, and written invocations.
Symbols and Books 
The symbol of Gytellisor is an open book, sometimes 
marked with a golden apple or embellished with a 
chain. His books are many and confusing, and all 
are written in Elvish, the sacred language used in all 
his services and works. The most famous is the Book 
of Prophecies, which is nearly incomprehensible in 
its antique phrasing and obscure use of analogies, 
parables, and beautiful but empty language. The 
second and more accessible volume is the Voice of 
the God’s Grave, a set of divine pronouncements and 
aphorisms that are frequently echoed in toasts, in 
speeches, and in threats. Its chill tone of warning is 
in sharp contrast to other elven gods, for it makes 
plain that death and loss are part of the elven 
tradition, and it is widely considered both clear-eyed 
and somewhat depressing.
Shrines and Priests 
The shrines of Gytellisor are usually embedded in 
the various courts, small nooks containing a dozen 
scrolls or a chained book for visitors to examine. 
Some of these tiny shrines are enchanted, so the 
statue of the god speaks a phrase or a complete poem 
when a candle is lit or when flowers are offered. The 
only large shrine to Gytellisor is the House of Dream 
Birds in Corremel, which four priests maintain, 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 150 ---
150
Book of Ebon Tides
keeping a scriptorium there and copying out sacred 
volumes and (for pay) any written work that a 
supplicant brings them. 
The first servant of Gytellisor there is named 
Ainoress Gabboneth, a sable elf matron with a 
round face and silvered hair who teaches literacy 
and numeracy to the poor. Flocks of white birds 
bring her fruits and sometimes coins. The birds, she 
claims, are created from the god’s dreams in order to 
feed the faithful. 
Masks
Gytellisor is widely assumed to be a minor mask of 
Thoth or Baccholon. More suspicious minds think 
rather of the Goat of the Woods or Santerr Illosi. 
Others believe that Gytellisor is an ancient elven 
poet-saint who wandered into the Shadow Realm and 
drank deep from the Well of Mimir, transforming 
him into a demigod.
Other Faiths
Followers of Baccholon get along famously with 
those of Gytellisor, and some bawdy tales say the two 
were lovers in the Summer Lands or Valera in ancient 
times. The two gods are often invoked in the same 
breath by sable elves. The priests of Ninkash frown 
and declaim against elven indulgence and void cult 
villainy hidden by pretty words. Likewise, the priests 
of Kupkoresh fear the power of poetry and forbidden 
prophecies that priests of Gytellisor often dangle to 
draw a crowd.
What Gytellisor Demands 
Speak the truth but tell it slant, let loose wild whimsy 
and outrageous love, revenge, despair. Feel your 
breath and life in every waking moment and realize 
that a path once trodden is never the same path twice. 
Drink deep of kisses, poetry, and love, and damn the 
consequences. Celebrate your victories with song, 
with verse, and with joy, and mourn your losses and 
grief as deeply. A shallow life is a life wasted.
KUPKORESH
God of Copper; Lord of Light; 
Master of the Arcane; Patron of 
Humans and Alchemists
Domains: Knowledge, Light, 
Mercy‡, Prophecy*
Alignment: Lawful 
Favored Weapons: Mace 
Kupkoresh is a copper-skinned man with black hair 
and a strong, narrow beard in the Nurian style. He is 
widely thought to have arrived from the bright lands 
when Corremel fell into shadow. He has a strong 
following among humans, who believe his smoky 
green incense burns away corruption and fosters 
friendships, alliances, and insight. 
Worshippers 
Kupkoresh’s followers are primarily a small 
community of humans in and around the City of 
Lanterns as well as followers up and down and the 
Rivers Lethe and Styx. Fey worshippers can be found 
The Riddles of the Ancients / from the Book of Ebon Tides
A few shrines and buildings of the Ancients remain on their 
driftwood islands and ruined haunts. Many of these include writing, 
both prayers and poetry in an antique form of Umbral that 
sounds rather quaint and stilted to the current ear. The writing 
is often fragmentary, though familiar figures reappear often: 
the Moon Goddess, various Mage Princes, and the Keepers of 
the Tides (presumably mages with power over oak, road, and 
stone). Two samples are provided here as references:
And yea, the Moon bestrode the clouds and turned her face from 
us, wrapping us in mists, leaving us wandering. We called to the Mage 
Prince, but he was lost in mire and returned years . . . 
I pray to you, Keepers of the Tides, for protection against the Dark Hours,  
for shelter in the storms, for form and shape that do not . . .
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 151 ---
151
Umbral Pantheon
in the shadow goblin city of Fandeval and in the Court 
of Golden Oaks, and occasionally gnomes or halflings 
will follow him as the Candle God or Lord of Light. 
Symbols and Books
The symbol of Kupkoresh is an orange or reddish sun, 
sometimes paired with a temple sword or dagger. 
Orange candles are commonly lit at his shrines, and 
his devotions are usually brightened by many torches, 
lanterns, mirrors, and gilding. 
The only sacred writing for Kupkoresh is the Scroll of 
Amber, which details the prayers and offerings given at 
moonrise and moonset as well as charms for lighting 
candles and how to use wax and light to sanctify or 
cleanse a corrupted spirit. A small treatise on the 
proper employment of judges and punishments 
rounds out the slim work.
Shrines and Priests 
The only shrine of Kupkoresh known to retain a 
permanent priesthood is the Evening Star Temple 
in the hills west of Corremel. It maintains an eternal 
reddish flame and is part of a copper mine and 
smelting complex that provides a steady flow of raw 
copper ingots to the umbral humans of the City of 
Lanterns. The shrines in Fandeval and elsewhere tend 
to attract occasional priests, but they are not large 
enough to sustain a weekly service and offerings. 
Everywhere in the Shadow Realm, the shrines of 
Kupkoresh are attacked by servants of Alquam, and 
his priests are often injured or slain.
Masks
Lada, Bengta, and Kupkoresh are often seen as 
different faces of the same godhead. A few even claim 
that Kupkoresh is Lada’s or Bengta’s divine father. 
Those who know the mortal gods of Nuria claim that 
Kupkoresh is a son of Aten. A few claim Kupkoresh 
was a priest of Aten or Lada who rose to such holiness 
that he became a saint and then a demigod. 
Other Faiths
Kupkoresh has a long rivalry with followers of Hecate, 
who consider his worshippers a cult, spreading 
false hope and bravado instead of a realistic view of 
dangers. Charun and Kupkoresh followers often 
render each other mutual aid, for both seek forms of 
protective guardianship and a good death. Kupkoresh 
calls out Alquam as the vilest of demons, and his 
followers will always root out and execute followers 
of the Lord of Night. Followers of Kupkoresh are 
suspicious of the poetry and frivolity of Gytellisor.
What Kupkoresh Demands 
Burn incense, follow the light, and tell the truth 
always. Help every stranger who needs aid and never 
let a debt lie fallow or forgotten. Wear your copper 
proudly and in times of despair remember that light 
burns within you. Hold your head high if doom 
comes upon you, for an honest death is no shame, 
and fire consumes darkness in the end. Be honest 
with yourself and hold yourself to account as strictly 
as you hold others.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 152 ---
152
Book of Ebon Tides
THE OLD ROADS
Gods of the Roads and Bindings; Guardians of Hecate; Holy 
Keepers of the Realm; Lords and Ladies of the Gates and Ways
Domains: Life, Portal‡, Travel*
Alignment: Neutral
Favored Weapon: Staff
The Old Roads are gods of shadow—born in shadow 
and binding the land together. They are believed 
to be the ascended spirits of ancient road wardens 
and arcanists such as Hargen the Builder, and they 
are frequently portrayed in pairs or in multiples of 
three. They guide travelers, help the lost, and protect 
merchants, pilgrims, and shepherds.
Worshippers
All travelers in the Shadow Realm revere the Old 
Roads and offer them at least a few words, a bit of 
woven grass, or some other minor token before 
setting out on a new journey. Merchants, soldiers, 
and pilgrims are all quite aware that ignoring the Old 
Roads is foolhardy.
Symbols and Books
Milestones carved with runes or symbols are their 
most common symbols, though the details vary from 
place to place: some Old Roads are marked with an 
oak leaf, others with a ram’s head or a green ring. 
There are no known holy books devoted to the Old 
Roads. 
Shrines and Priests
Each waymark and roadside shrine along the 
thoroughfares, byways, and shadow roads is 
important to the Old Roads. They are gods of the path 
and of travel, unable to stay in one place for any time, 
and their priesthood is similar, always wandering. 
The priests of the Old Roads tend to be elderly 
men and women or sometimes ancient shadow fey or 
goblins who beg alms from other travelers. They work 
to keep the roads in good repair, help fellow travelers, 
round up strays, heal the sick, and make reports to the 
road wardens when something is amiss. Most go by 
use-names such as Old Bridge, Old Stone, Old Fence, 
and so on, though their worshippers often seek out 
the true names of these gods and famous priests, the 
better to understand them—or control them.
Masks
No other gods seem to be masks for the Old Roads, 
though some believe these godlings are tiny avatars of 
Umbeserno or Hecate. 
Other Faiths
Hecate and the Old Roads seem well acquainted. 
Some say they are her servitors, her eyes, expanding 
the land she drew up from formless shadow long 
ago. Even some dark gods such as Vardesain respect 
the Old Roads and expand them with new paths and 
destinations. Only the Black Goat of the Woods is 
known to despise the roads, and her goblins and chaos 
cultists often target milestones for theft or vandalism.
What the Old Roads Demand
Travel swiftly and leave the roads clear of brush and 
timber. Offer something to the roads at the start of 
a journey and drink to their health at the end. Never 
steal or deface a road milestone. Hunt down those 
who cut or harm the roads. Always render aid to the 
lost, injured, or starving.
SANTERR ILLOSI,  
OUR LADY OF BLOOD
Goddess of Blood and Strength; Lady of 
Shadows; Santerr of the Shroud; the 
First Necromancer; Patron of Ghouls
Domains: Death, Justice*, 
Knowledge, Shadow (see Chapter 3)
Alignment: Law 
Favored Weapons: Scythe 
Santerr Illosi is a darakhul of blood and mystery 
whose three-layered cult includes most darakhul and 
lesser ghouls of the Twilight Empire. She is usually 
shown as a necromancer in a green robe, holding 
either a set of bones or a scythe, and with a ferocious 
grin (what the darakhul sometimes call a “feeding 
smile”). Occasionally she is shown with a sandaled 
foot resting on a human or shadow fey skull.
The outer layer of her cult are the Reapers, the 
middle ranks are the Sowers, and the highest rank 
are the Harvesters. Each gains access to additional 
knowledge, and it is believed that the highest ranks are 
all elder darakhul, forming a network of necromancers 
and blood mages within the Twilight Empire. 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 153 ---
153
Umbral Pantheon
Worshippers
Santerr Illosi is worshipped by most darakhul, 
though more openly by the common rabble and 
beggar ghouls than by officers and nobles. The 
faith exists among some umbral humans as well, 
though rarely and primarily as a goddess of healing 
and of speaking to the departed. A few rogues and 
dealmakers among the shadow goblins also pay 
homage to Santerr Illosi, though usually in secret.
Symbols and Books
Santerr Illosi’s symbols include a stylized 
sickle-and-eye symbol, and sometimes, a 
small pile of finger bones is said to be 
one of her makeshift altars. Her sacred 
books include the Harvest of Souls 
for the Reapers, which describes 
the proper ceremonies and 
rituals for either burial or 
for preparing a cremation as 
well as discussions of simple 
necromancy, such as speaking with the dead and 
raising skeletons and zombies. The Rites of Santerr 
Illosi are reserved for the Sowers and are believed to 
discuss blood magic spells and rituals for fortifying 
a worshipper with necromancy. The Rites of the Blood 
Queen is said to be a volume that is shared only among 
the Harvesters. Its contents are unknown to those 
outside of the faith. 
Shrines and Priests
Small shrines to Santerr Illosi can usually be found 
in temples of Vardesain in the Twilight Empire 
and also in Midgard’s Ghoul Empire. Their piles of 
bone and green murals of reaping are distinct from 
Vardesain’s altars.
The most famous priests of Santerr Illosi are Her 
Luminance Ingalla Vert in the shade city of Soriglass 
and Her Witchlight Resplendence Tiberessa Vert in 
the Twilight Empire.
Masks
Some darakhul believe that Santerr Illosi is simply 
a mask of Marena, the Blood Goddess, made more 
appropriate for ghouls, while others believe she is 
the feminine aspect of Vardesain. A few believe that 
Santerr Illosi is the true power of Marena or even (for 
the truly devout) the force behind Hecate.
Other Faiths
Santerr Illosi’s followers are on excellent terms with 
Vardesain and good terms with Alquam and Charun. 
Hecate considers her a minor rival, and Kupkoresh, 
Bengta, and Anu-Akma are unfriendly, if not hostile. 
Most gods of Midgard consider her faith a minor 
but dangerous branch of the church of Vardesain and 
stamp it out with the same enthusiasm they reserve 
for him.
What Santerr Illosi Demands
Seize blood and bone from the weak to power your 
rise. The strong deserve to rule, and you must grow 
strong. Draw power from the living and from the 
land, and never forget that your people are the true 
rulers of the shadows. 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 154 ---
154
Book of Ebon Tides
SANTERR MAROSSA,  
OUR LADY OF ROSES
Goddess of Steel and Lies; Lady of Light; 
Bringer of Mirth; Holy Mother of Healing; 
Santerr of Blossoms; the Divine Rose; 
Patron of Shadow Goblins
Domains: Life, Light, Mercy‡, 
Nature, Trickery
Alignment: Good 
Favored Weapons: Staff 
Santerr Marossa is the capering, joyous, 
spontaneous, and lively side of the shadow goblins: 
a mother-goddess of trickery and diligent study, 
strict with the wayward and quick with a helpful lie 
when a shadow goblin strays into the dangers of 
dealing with elves, humans, and bearfolk. While she 
is a healing goddess, Santerr Marossa is not above 
smacking heads to get results if she feels her priests 
and celebrants are missing the point. Only among the 
shadow goblins does a trickster goddess of healing 
seem to make any sense. 
Santerr Marossa is usually shown as a shadow 
goblin matron, wearing a horned-crescent headdress 
in silver or ivory and a parti-colored set of robes. 
Statues and paintings of her calling to the moons, 
sitting cross-legged while throwing fortunetelling 
bones, or holding a child are most common. She is 
sometimes shown laughing and slapping a knee, a 
depiction commonly called the Joyous Mother.
Worshippers 
Worship of Santerr Marossa is largely confined to 
the shadow goblins and is especially common in 
Fandeval, in goblin villages throughout the realm, 
and in goblin halls and tunnels underneath the great 
fey courts. Human worshippers are relatively few but 
exist in Fandeval and other settlements.
Symbols and Books 
The symbol of Santerr Marossa is a red, pink, or 
white rose, often stuffed into a goblin skull’s eyeholes 
or used to decorate a moon-window in glass. Her 
relics often include undying roses, holy rosewater 
perfumes, and stone roses carved from jasper, red 
agate, or garnet.
As a goddess of literacy, Santerr Marossa has a 
great many holy books, many of them quite specific 
and strange. A Treatise for the Wounded: How to Save 
Your Scabs is a not-that-unusual title—as are The Two 
Hundred Ways to Raise the Spirits of a Dour Griever and 
How to Feed the Starving: Give Them Food. In addition to 
those perhaps humorous titles, the holy texts that give 
succor to her human and elven worshippers include 
a guide to healing called The Rosy Path, a naturalist’s 
compendium called the Marossa Herbarium, and the 
Guide to Starlight Weaving, a mystical tome of prophetic 
and cryptic utterances subject to any number of 
interpretations.
Shrines and Priests 
The shrines of Santerr Marossa are usually hidden 
away in goblin burrows under the great fey courts and 
not readily accessible to larger creatures (Medium or 
larger) or to anyone unwelcome in goblin halls (which 
is most everyone except the lower castes of shadow fey, 
some erina, and occasionally bearfolk druids). Reports 
claim that they are kept covered in fragrant rose petals 
except during holidays, when they are cleansed with 
fire and smeared with blood in rose patterns.
The greatest priestess of Santerr Marossa is said to 
be the goddess’s daughter, the shadow goblin maiden 
Rose-Rekinash the Wise (NG shadow goblin first 
servant of Marossa, see Southlands Worldbook), whose 
almond eyes and milky hair hide a wicked sense of 
humor and a keen eye for a bargain. As with many 
shadow goblins, she rarely speaks much to nobles, 
tall folk, and the very learned, but her memory is 
infallible, and her spy network among the fey is 
enormous—so every important word whispered in 
the courts is said to reach her ears.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 155 ---
155
Umbral Pantheon
Masks
Santerr Marossa is sometimes believed to be an 
especially twisted mask of Bengta the Bear Maiden 
or Kupkoresh. At other times, she is thought of as an 
especially kindly mask of Laughing Loki or a more 
perfumed face of Ninkash.
Goblins claim that Santerr Marossa is the one 
goddess who created most others and that Laughing 
Loki, Hecate, Lada, and Bengta are her children 
among humans, shadow fey, sable elves, and bearfolk.
Other Faiths
Santerr Marossa’s followers get along well with 
Baccholon’s and Hecate’s folk and especially well with 
priests of Ailuros (who come to santerr’s followers for 
rosewater and moonflowers of all kinds). The priests 
of Santerr Marossa get along poorly with most 
human gods, especially dour Anu-Akma, foolish 
Kupkoresh, and gloomy Charun. 
What Santerr Marossa Demands 
Live loud and laugh often. Fear no shame and seize 
every bite of honey, every sweet blossom. Outlive 
your enemies and return their insults with kindness 
and then steal their boots. Treat the wounded, the 
weak, the elderly, and the poor with healing and 
compassion—someday all grow old, and someday all 
are suffering. Tell jokes and leave a rose or rosewater 
with your prayers in the garden or the temple.
UMBESERNO
God of Hibernation and Twilight; 
Lord of Winter Dreams; Bringer of 
Spring; Lord of Sleep; Holy Father 
of the Snows; Patron of Bearfolk
Domains: Life, Nature, Prophecy*, 
Shadow (see Chapter 3)
Alignment: Good 
Favored Weapons: Axe, spear 
Umbeserno is a drowsy, nocturnal god among the 
bearfolk, largely because of his role in hibernation 
and prophetic dreams. Where Bengta watches over 
the bearfolk during the day and encourages them 
to good works, Umbeserno watches over them at 
night and during the cold months when bearfolk 
lie dreaming and snoring. The bearfolk think of 
dreaming as a time of plans and hopes—an optimistic 
season and a season to gather strength.
Umbeserno is always shown as a large black 
bearfolk with a crescent mark on his forehead, 
Design Note:  
Santerr Demi-Gods
The two gods with the title of santerr here are unique 
to the Shadow Realm, as is their title. I was looking for a 
word that might parallel saint or demi-god, something 
akin to a title of divinity. In my game and then in design, 
anyone referred to as a santerr is holy or special and 
was likely first associated with a particular place. So 
the word santerr is a loan-word from Umbral when it 
appears here, but any character speaking just about 
Marossa or Illosi would confuse Umbral speakers. Those 
are common names among the shadow goblins and the 
ghouls, respectively—thus the need to refer to Santerr 
Marossa and Santerr Illosi.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 156 ---
156
Book of Ebon Tides
typically wearing the robes of a shaman and often 
with his paw holding either an enormous salmon or 
a rainbow-colored dreamstone. A second popular 
pose is Umbeserno Dreamlord, which is a sleeping 
pose surrounded by signs of spring and life: flowers, 
fish, lightning bolts, comets, and rabbits as his signs 
and portents.
Worshippers
Umbeserno is worshipped primarily by bearfolk, 
though a few humans and shadow goblins appeal to 
him for help with bad dreams, mysteries of spring 
and rebirth, even with questions of marriage or 
healing. Those who suffer bad dreams call on him 
to come and take those dreams away, and many 
matchmakers ask his guidance when finalizing a 
match between two bearfolk (or two humans—
goblins make their own, more complicated 
arrangements). 
Symbols and Books
Umbeserno’s symbols include the rainbow-colored 
dreamstone, the leaping salmon, and antlers 
surrounding a bird’s nest (no priest of Umbeserno 
tells quite the same story of the last one, but it seems 
to be a bearfolk icon of spring). He has a number 
of holy books, many called the Book of Dreams—but 
there seems to be no standard collection of this 
sacred text, and while some dreams are always 
described in a Book of Dreams (falling, loss of fur, the 
scent of honey, summer flies), others are only found 
in some volumes.
Shrines and Priests
The largest shrine to Umbeserno is the Snoring 
Temple in Solvheim where the caverns run deep 
into the hills: many of the wealthier bearfolk take 
their winter sleep there or visit with questions of 
fortunetelling and the like. Smaller temples to 
Umbeserno are often well-made, circular lodges with 
clay and whole logs for their walls and grass-covered 
roofs with a single smoke hole. 
Priests of Umbeserno are often mocked as 
drowsy or slow or spending all their time gazing 
at constellations or clouds, but most are generous, 
extremely patient, and hardworking members of 
their communities, always ready to lend a hand to 
the faithful. The best-known priest of Umbeserno 
is Snuffling Tilda, the Keeper of the Hearth at the 
Snoring Temple in Merrymead.
Masks
Umbeserno is often assumed to be a mask of 
Gytellisor, though sometimes the comparisons are to 
Ailuros when the dreaming side dominates. Others 
believe that Umbeserno is a mask of Wotan, a rather 
rambling, gentler font of wisdom and persistence.
Other Faiths
The followers of Bengta get along very well with 
those of Umbeserno as do those of Ailuros and even 
Charun. Umbeserno is an enemy of the needless 
slaughter of the Hunter and of the fears and terrors 
of Alquam. Laughing Loki and Umbeserno are often 
seen as friends surprisingly.
What Umbeserno Demands
Dream big and sleep well. Make your plans carefully 
and be relentless in seeing them through. Watch the 
world with a sharp eye and a keen nose. Patience will 
often be rewarded with wisdom. Ponder your choices 
and always keep your word.
Dark Gods of the  
Shadow Realm
The Shadow Realm has more than its share of 
night terrors, demon lords, and dark gods as well as 
godlings exiled or banished from brighter realms. 
A few of them are familiar from the mortal world of 
Midgard, and a few are similar but not quite the same 
when seen in the shadows. The five most important 
dark gods are described here.
ALQUAM
Demon Lord of Night; God of Stealth; 
Patron of the Darklings; Master of 
Nightmares; the Silent God; Slayer of 
the Sun; Keeper of the Black Gate 
Domains: Darkness*, Death, 
Shadow (see Chapter 3), Wind‡
Alignment: Evil 
Favored Weapons: Mace, short sword
As the demon lord devoted to darkness and the night, 
shadows are Alquam’s natural home. He is a creature 
devoted to stealth, to the silent killing loved by 
assassins, raptors, and nocturnal animals. While he is 
often regarded as the Silent God, when his followers 
strike, they shout his name, and many of his most 
devoted followers are quite loud, brash people, not 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 157 ---
157
Umbral Pantheon
afraid to make plain their power. Aggressiveness and 
bullying are common among warriors, alchemists, 
and bandits devoted to the Master of Nightmares.
Worshippers
Most followers of Alquam are umbral humans seeking 
secret strength, darkvision, or other gifts, though 
darklings, gnomes, and shadow goblins also number 
among his devotees. Night watchmen, hunters, and 
bandits also frequently number among his most 
faithful as do all those whose daily life involves death 
and burial. Darakhul are often fond of him, though 
never to the exclusion of Vardesain or Anu-Akma.
Symbols and Books
Alquam’s symbols include a black owl, usually 
portrayed with blue eyes but sometimes with eyes of 
amber, somewhat like a normal owl. This is his icon 
of watchfulness and keen vision, and small statues 
in this guise are sometimes kept in forest shrines as 
watchful creatures. His priests often keep owls as 
sacred animals. Additionally, a five-rayed dark sun is 
sometimes seen as a sign of Alquam, and a few sects 
use dried and preserved raptor claws as holy symbols 
for the Master of Nightmares.
The faith has only one holy text, the Book of the 
Black Gate. This describes the god’s hymns, chants, 
sacrifices, and laws for the faithful along with a series 
of hunting parables that teach the basics of following 
spoor, choosing targets, and even how to dress 
and butcher common game animals. The chapters 
devoted to the “black gate” itself are somewhat 
mystical, describing it as a transformative portal 
that strengthens those who enter. Certain herbs, 
rituals, and unguents are said to prepare a devotee 
to enter the black gate, and those who undergo this 
ritual certainly believe that it will make them crueler, 
swifter, and more keen-eyed.
Shrines and Priests
Most shrines to Alquam are caverns carved with 
ornate runes, wardings, blessings, and sigils. Most 
such cavern-temples include a small body of water 
for night blessings, a form of ritual cleansing, and the 
larger ones often include a rookery or haven for bats, 
owls, or other nocturnal creatures.
Masks
Alquam is often believed to be a mask of Hecate or 
Vardesain, though more often his followers describe 
the Hunter as one of Alquam’s aspect, and others 
say that Charun is Alquam’s mask on the water and 
in the afterlife. For the most part though, Alquam is 
counted as a relatively quiet, silent god, or even as the 
shadow of greater gods.
Other Faiths
Alquam despises Lada, Kupkoresh, Bengta, 
Umbeserno, and all gods of the sunlit lands. They 
likewise seek to wipe out his followers wherever they 
can be found. Umbeserno takes particular offense 
at Alquam’s role in delivering foul dreams and 
disturbing the long sleep of the bearfolk. Though he 
has many enemies, Alquam is accounted as a powerful 
god in the Shadow Realm and has command over the 
seasons when no moon shines and no star twinkles—
his protecting hand shelters all the creatures of the 
dark against the rapacious or the cruel. 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 158 ---
158
Book of Ebon Tides
Alquam is on good terms with the Hunter and with 
Hecate, who is sometimes described as “Alquam’s 
grandmother” and at other times as a friend and 
fellow creature of the dark. Vardesain and Alquam 
share mutual respect, though they are allies of 
convenience and seekers after the same ends. The god 
of the undead, Mot, is said to have long supported 
Alquam as a good and silent slayer, bringing more 
undead into his ranks, but Mot is not widely known in 
the Shadow Realm.
Alquam’s greatest ally and friend is Charun the 
boatman. The two are old friends, crossing from 
shadow into darkness, both familiar with the River 
Styx and the midnight hour, and both faiths trust one 
another. “As close as cards with Charun” is a phrase 
the followers of Alquam use to describe embracing a 
friend or stalking an enemy.
What Alquam Demands
Never stand in the sun when shade beckons. Say your 
prayers at midnight, in deep darkness, and praise the 
darkness for its soft concealment. Learn to listen and 
to see when all others are deaf and blind. Your senses 
are keen in the night, your heart knows where enemies 
seek to evade you. Destroy light and cherish silence.
BLACK GOAT OF THE WOODS
Queen of Decadence; Whisperer in 
the Woods; the Wicked One; Patron 
of the Goblins; the Mother Whose Loins 
Bring Forth Multitudes; Piper of the 
Midnight Sun; Father of Mayhem
Domains: Apocalypse*, 
Prophecy*, Shadow (see Chapter 3), Void*
Alignment: Chaotic
Favored Weapons: Garrote, throwing daggers 
Once the greatest of the gods of an arcane kingdom, 
Bacchana was the deity of night, wealth, influence, 
fertility, and power—a feminine human aspect of the 
elven god Baccholon with a completely transparent 
mask. Her priests gave her followers great license 
to lust and to every form of excess, and the people 
embraced her teachings with all their hearts. When 
these mages first summoned servants from beyond 
the Void, her church encouraged the endeavor and 
endorsed the wars that followed. The fight and its 
ever-increasing expenditure of magic, wealth, and 
prayer pleased her as nothing had before, but the 
atrocities of those wars tainted Bacchana as deeply 
as her homeland. With a deep lust for destruction, 
she looked to the realms beyond the stars where the 
Ancient Ones originated, and her soul and body 
were broken. 
The Goat of the Woods appears in two forms: as 
a hideous, writhing, galloping crab covered with 
strange growths and tentacles or—when seeking 
not to drive her followers directly into madness—as 
The True Dark Gods / from the Book of Ebon Tides
While the dark gods of the umbral peoples are dangerous, 
other forces do swim in the shadow matter and hide beneath 
the hills. The two best known of these are thought to be 
gods of the Ancients: Nammerkah the Devourer, a sort of 
tunneling horror thought to be a god of war or the patron 
of the vampires of Oshragora, and Friselka, the Seal Maiden, 
whose cold touch is the hand of death and a bringer of new 
life, sometimes associated with Charun or Lada. Their statues and 
images are commonly found in tombs of the Ancients. No one knows 
their prayers or rites, and even their shapes are softened by time. 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 159 ---
159
Umbral Pantheon
a hermaphroditic satyr with large curving horns and 
black skin, clad in a wispy tunic of stars. Though 
referred to in the feminine, this mad god is as much 
male as female, and any form she takes blends the 
spectrum of gender. 
Worshippers 
The power hungry, the mad, and the fearful worship 
the Goat of the Woods. Anyone contemplating a risky 
or destructive venture looks to her for a blessing. Both 
goblins and giants turn to her in desperation, 
and the lost find her voice speaking to 
them in the night. The selang are often her 
heralds and most zealous priests.
Lawful magic users throughout the Shadow 
Realm forbid the worship of Bacchana. 
They strike her name from records and 
burn her groves and temples. Wizards 
caught honoring her are exiled by their 
fellows but are watched lest they mimic ancient 
obscenities. She is a major patron for witches 
and oracles, who sometimes call her by her 
ancient, forbidden names. 
Symbols and Books 
The sign of the goat is five stalks of 
golden wheat arranged in a pentagram. 
Worshippers’ secret shrines use star-
shaped objects such as starfish and 
star‑shaped knives. A hand sign, the two middle 
fingers folded down over the thumb with the pinky 
and pointer fingers extended upward, is a common 
and easily hidden gesture among followers. 
Her long-lost holy teachings were once stamped on 
rings worn by her clergy. Now the faithful listen for her 
whispers on the winds. One banned book, the Viridian 
Codex (see Demon Cults & Secret Societies), is said to 
contain her litany. Only fragments are known to exist. 
Shrines and Priests 
The Goat of the Woods was once widely worshipped 
in groves of rowan and white oaks. During the many 
purges of her faith, these groves were burned, and 
only the most isolated and dangerous survive, though 
many cities retain a small, hidden shrine. 
The Goat’s clergy are called speakers, and they 
rave wherever they can find an ear to listen. All her 
speakers challenge laws and taboos as a duty of her 
faith. Her priests are advocates for the downtrodden 
and the exiled. 
The grand speaker of the Goat is Indoo Langomall 
(CN shadow goblin apostle of the Goat of the 
Woods, see Southlands Worldbook). He wanders the 
wastes and forests with a band of reveling, mud-
stained goblins and humans, always somehow finding 
enough to eat and shelter in the winter. Some say the 
cult has an enormous cavern shrine somewhere in the 
mountains near Soriglass. 
Masks 
The Goat was said to be the sister or a mask of 
Gytellisor, and now Laughing Loki and Vardesain are 
whispered to be her masks. A few claim that the Goat 
is the evil face of Santerr Marossa, but this is profane 
and vile heresy to Marossa’s faithful.
Other Faiths 
The Goat of the Woods is as capricious now as she 
ever has been and is an ally, enemy, lover, friend, 
confidant, and betrayer to any god that associates 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 160 ---
160
Book of Ebon Tides
with her. The faiths of Kupkoresh, Anu-Akma, 
Sarastra, and Hecate are all her committed enemies, 
though the Goat pays them little mind. She seeks only 
to hear the song of the Void.
What the Goat of the Woods Demands 
Gain power and satisfy your vices and lusts. Expand 
your mind’s boundaries with whatever means you 
have available but especially with magic. Madness is 
the blessing of your goddess. Challenge the law and 
bring forth new visions. Embrace change and destroy 
hierarchies. 
THE HUNTER
Master of the Hunt; the Horned 
Huntsman; the Blood God; the Horseman; 
the Many‑Skinned Walker; Patron of 
Per-Kush 
Domains: Death, Hunting*, Moon* 
Alignment: Evil 
Favored Weapons: Bow (any) and spear 
The Hunter walks in countless forms, including 
those of a dire wolf, human huntsman, fell hound, 
centaur archer, pale king, fey assassin, blood demon, 
and goblin trapper. The god embodies the fierce 
animals lurking in the wild fringes as well as those 
who pursue and conquer them. The Blood God 
encourages the dark instincts that drive beasts to 
fury. The Hunter revels in the chase and thrives on 
power, violence, and blood. 
The Hunter often appears wearing a crown with 
horns or claws, a rich fur cloak, and deerskin leggings 
and wielding a black-tipped spear. The Hunter’s eyes 
are said to flash green and gold, particularly when he 
is in the throes of a challenging chase. 
Worshippers 
The Hunter has ancient roots, and his priests lead or 
influence many of the most violent bandit gangs and 
raiders. He is publicly worshipped by many of the 
shadow fey and some of the darakhul, both of whom 
enjoy the traditions of the chase. When the Hunter 
rides forth, all who hear his call must heed it—even 
fey gods have been enraptured by it. 
The Blood God enjoys a large following among 
human and catfolk hunters, lycanthropes, gnolls, 
vampires, and ogres, and even some fey. Many 
hobgoblin, trollkin, and goblin tribes revere him 
as well. The minotaurs see him as the champion of 
murderous urges and the embodiment of the delight 
of tracking and killing prey, and his worship is 
perhaps more widespread among them than anyone 
cares to admit. 
Symbols and Books 
Every kind of predatory beast, monstrous and 
otherwise, can be a representation of the Hunter, 
though his primary symbol is a bloodied carcass. 
Other signs of his faith include stylized spear tips 
and arrowheads, particularly where the Horned 
One’s nature must remain hidden. Observant, 
intelligent prey can interpret such symbols as omens 
or warnings. 
The Hunter’s faith is spread through oral tradition, 
often in campfire stories shared by hunters. Written 
texts devoted to the god are rare. Books, after all, are 
only guides to embracing the Horned God. Believers 
must demonstrate real bloodlust before they can fully 
understand the Hunter’s call. 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 161 ---
161
Umbral Pantheon
Shrines and Priests 
Every bloodied hunting ground can serve as a shrine 
to the Hunter. Full-fledged temples are rare, but 
small, formal shrines are consecrated in remote 
woods or secluded valleys. Adorned with the bones 
and skins of the followers’ prey, these gory shrines 
are bathed in blood. Less grisly altars are maintained 
by various hunting fraternities in Fandeval and the 
Court of Night and Magic as well as the Court of 
Winter’s Love. 
Masks 
Despite an occasional association with other gods, 
the Hunter’s priests claim that their god wears no 
masks, though others believe variously that Vardesain 
or Anu-Akma are aspects of the Hunter. Some of his 
names are taken from gods who became his prey. 
Other Faiths 
To the Hunter, there are only two kinds of gods. The 
worthy ones are fellow hunters who join him on his 
great chases, and their followers are their yeomen and 
attendants. All other gods are meat. Their clergy and 
their followers are also meat, all the sweeter for their 
mortal suppleness. 
What the Hunter Demands 
Hunt or be hunted. Join the Master’s Hunt when 
it rides by, and hunt wild boar, deer, elk, pheasant, 
rabbits—whatever crosses your path. Learn to track, 
learn to kill without hesitation, and eat what you kill. 
Know that your life too might someday come to a 
violent end, and live your life with gusto before that 
day arrives.
LAUGHING LOKI
Shapeshifting God of Cunning, 
Mischief, and Malice; Lord of 
Deception; Patron of Thieves; Father 
of Fenris, Hel, and Jörmungandr 
Domains: Apocalypse*, Knowledge, Travel*, Trickery 
Alignment: Chaotic 
Favored Weapon: Net 
What’s known and rumored about Laughing Loki is 
surely only the tip of the iceberg compared to what’s 
hidden behind misdirection and lies. You’ll never 
hear the same story of his origin twice, and that’s 
the way he likes it. Laughing Loki is a trickster and 
an instigator. He brings change—often dangerous 
change—but also helps the gods escape the trouble 
he causes. In a world dominated by the strong 
and forthright, he embodies the talents that more 
straightforward gods overlook: cleverness, stealth, 
and guile as well as humor and charm. 
While his cleverness is indeed formidable, he is 
also a renowned shapeshifter and has sired numerous 
monsters, including the wolf Fenris, his half-dead 
daughter Hel, and (allegedly) the World Serpent. 
Laughing Loki’s fate is a dark one. Driven by 
jealousy, he will kill Baldur, and his monstrous 
children will bring about the twilight of the gods. 
These deeds might be in the future, but they cannot 
be forgiven or forgotten, even before they have come 
to pass. Some say the suspicion of the gods and the 
scorn of mortals will drive him from mischief to 
evil whereas others claim that Loki was wickedness 
incarnate from the start. The truth—like so much 
more about him—will probably never be known. 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 162 ---
162
Book of Ebon Tides
Worshippers 
Clever warriors and cooks, mischief-makers and the 
wise, all sorts worship Loki and thank him for the 
gift of laughter, wit, and knowledge . . . but all know 
his dark side as well. Fisherfolk are especially fond of 
him since the net is said to be Loki’s invention. Most 
of Loki’s followers are shadow goblins, gnomes, 
darklings, and human scoundrels of some kind. He’s 
worshipped by those who consort with monsters and 
those about to commit acts of treachery or cunning. 
While the more impish and troublemaking enjoy his 
tales and advice, sometimes his divine “help” causes 
more trouble than it solves. 
Symbols and Books 
Loki’s symbol is twin serpents or sometimes an open 
net. His priests keep no books and pass along his 
faith through the spoken word. 
Shrines and Priests 
Laughing Loki has more temples in shadow than 
elsewhere, and he is praised by the gnomes and 
goblins in particular. His greatest priest in the 
Shadow Realm is Vares the Silent, his high priest 
in the Court of Pale Roses, though some would put 
forward Grinning Florbert Redhand (CN shadow 
goblin priest of Laughing Loki) in his temple in 
Fandeval or even a traveling preacher and trickster 
named Furball (CG bearfolk priest of Laughing 
Loki), who entertains and enlightens the bearfolk 
and sometimes the shadow fey. Priests of Laughing 
Loki are honored among the darklings, gnomes, and 
shadow goblins—less so among bearfolk, humans, 
and shadow fey.
His largest shrine in shadows is the Golden Hall 
in Langmire’s Court, though he also has shrines in 
Corremel, Fandeval, and elsewhere. 
Masks 
Laughing Loki takes on false faces often, but most 
see through them quickly. He may sometimes take on 
features of Sarastra or Alquam or even the Hunter or 
Umbeserno. His trickery is distinctive though to the 
priests who know him.
Other Faiths 
Laughing Loki is blood-brother of Wotan and a 
common companion to Thor. They are family and 
often allies. Yet he continually provokes the Aesir and 
finds himself unwelcome in Valhalla and spending 
time in shadow—at least until his cunning is needed 
once more. He is the jester of the gods. His primary 
friends are often disreputable gods: the Hunter, 
Gytellisor, Santerr Marossa, and Hecate consort with 
him and sometimes aid his plots. Charun, Bengta, 
and Kupkoresh all have a distinctly antagonistic view 
of Laughing Loki, and the feeling is mutual. 
What Laughing Loki Demands 
The trickster demands nothing from his followers: 
“Do what you think would amuse me,” is all the 
guidance he gives, inspiring japes and trickery as 
well as fires and foolishness. His worshippers have 
learned to serve him while maintaining an outwardly 
respectable demeanor. They aim to place themselves 
in the same position among mortals that Laughing 
Loki holds among the gods—renowned for skill and 
cleverness rather than strength, sometimes unwanted 
but always indispensable.
VARDESAIN
Ghoul-God of the Bottomless Maw; Lord 
of Unending Thirst; the Hunger God; the 
Unsated God; Devourer of Souls; Patron 
of the Darakhul 
Domains: Darkness*, Death, 
Hunger*, Life, Void*
Alignment: Neutral 
Favored Weapon: Handaxe 
All creatures hunger, and without food, life ends. 
Vardesain took this primal need and built a faith 
ranging from simple gluttony to cannibalistic 
feasting. Indeed, food is seen as a sacrament that 
builds life, health, and righteous strength in the 
faithful, and the followers of the Hunger God can 
be both great gourmands and the world’s least picky 
eaters. Sacrifices to the god are invariably edible—
and sometimes still living. 
The god’s best-known forms are those of 
scavengers and predators: white wolves, ghouls, and 
darakhul, but also undead of abnormal size. In any 
form, visions, depictions, and avatars of Vardesain 
are always feeding on something. 
Worshippers 
Vardesain’s followers are the hungry and the 
ambitious: power-hungry humans and monsters, 
ghouls, vampires, darakhul, and other undead. They 
have no morals or standards, only instinct. 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 163 ---
163
Umbral Pantheon
Symbols and Books 
Vardesain’s holy beast is the purple worm, a creature 
that devours sacrifices to the god in his temples. When 
embroidered or painted on vestments, it is shown as a 
purple snake consuming its own tail or a pair of open 
jaws. The priests of Vardesain keep bats, serpents, and 
oozes as living incarnations of hunger. 
Their holiest text is actually a series of cave 
paintings, called the Feast, rendered in the Shrine of 
Vardesain in Darakhan, the White City of the Ghoul 
Empire. These have been copied in the depths of the 
empire in the city of Zhurahk with new emphasis on 
the righteous rule of the emperor.
The empire depends on the Feeding Laws, edicts 
written on scrolls of skin and carried by Vardesain’s 
priests. To disobey the Feeding Laws is to invite 
divine punishment, though in practice they are 
frequently broken. 
Shrines and Priests 
The red and white Shrine of Vardesain is the 
best-known temple below ground. Many ancient 
monuments to his face as the Lord of Unending 
Thirst stand at oases in the Southlands. In the Shadow 
Realm, his rule is a relatively recent arrival, brought in 
by the darakhul and spread with fervor.
The current high priest among the Twilight Empire 
is His Carmine Eminence and High Patriarch of 
Zhurahk, Devros Perghallen, one of the rare few 
whose hunger has been consumed by Vardesain as 
a blessing. He currently works to spread the faith of 
consumption and the power of devouring others and 
to denounce Bengta and Kupkoresh.
Masks 
The Goat of the Woods and the Hunter have been 
suggested as possible masks of Vardesain. Neither 
is an especially likely candidate. Certainly, Charun 
and Anu-Akma are more associated with Vardesain’s 
Underworld and control over the undead. 
Other Faiths 
Charun, the Goat of the Woods, and the Hunter 
are allied with Vardesain, though loosely. Lada, 
Kupkoresh, and Bengta all despise Vardesain as 
worthless and vile, and they seek to destroy his temples 
at every opportunity. The priesthoods of Vardesain 
and Anu-Akma are great rivals, but the two gods seem 
indifferent to this rivalry, leading some to suspect that 
Vardesain is indeed a mask of Anu-Akma’s darker side. 
What Vardesain Demands 
Flesh is weak, but your will is strong—show your 
strength. Hunt and kill what you eat when you can, 
but scavenging is not dishonorable. Fast when you 
must find focus and purity, for your hunger will give 
you strength to see the way. Devour the hearts of your 
enemies. 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 164 ---
164
Book of Ebon Tides
Monsters and NPCs
Monsters and NPCs
The peoples and monsters of the Shadow Realm 
are numerous and varied. It’s difficult to know what 
to expect. A small sampling of those creatures is 
included here. 
Bearfolk Druid
A golden-furred bearfolk dressed in a beaded poncho slashes 
the air before her with a hefty wooden scepter. As the rod cuts 
through the air, a curtain of darkness is burned away by the 
trailing blue light. 
Bearfolk druids provide frontline defense against the 
corrupting influence of shadow. 
Grounded Nature. Bearfolk who pursue druidic 
training understand the state of balance inherent in 
all natural creatures. Such keen inner senses provide 
these druids with hyperawareness of whether or not 
the taint of unnatural shadow magic has influenced a 
creature, and their insight makes these druids more 
resistant to any corrupting influences.
Moonlit Leaders. While bearfolk druids are 
common throughout all bearfolk communities in 
the mortal world, the highest concentration is in the 
Shadow Realm. Each day in the Moonlit Glades they 
push back against the slow, insidious influences of 
shadow corruption. These druids are critical to the 
survival of such bearfolk communities.
Monsters of Fantasy
Every fantasy world is filled with a wide variety of 
antagonists, both monsters and NPCs. Here you’ll find 
new monsters, like the birch siren and the river giant, 
along with new NPCs, like the bearfolk druid and the 
sable elf hierophant.
Each character and creature has statistics that provide 
a guideline for a typical encounter, but not every 
individual of that type need exhibit the traits listed, be 
it in alignment, traits, actions, or something else. If you 
want to create monsters and NPCs different from what’s 
listed, go for it! 
9
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 165 ---
165
Monsters and NPCs
Bearfolk Druid
Medium Humanoid (Bearfolk), Any Alignment
ARMOR CLASS 13 (natural armor; 16 with barkskin)
HIT POINTS 136 (21d8 + 42)
SPEED 30 ft.
STR		
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
19 (+4)	
10 (+0)	
15 (+2)	
11 (+0)	
18 (+4)	
14 (+2)
SAVING THROWS Con +5, Wis +7
SKILLS Animal Handling +7, Nature + 3, Perception +7
SENSES passive Perception 17
LANGUAGES Common, Druidic, Giant, Umbral
CHALLENGE 6 (2,300 XP)	
PROFICIENCY BONUS +3
Glowing Heart. The bearfolk has advantage on saving 
throws made to resist being frightened and to resist 
corruption effects, such as from shadow or the void. 
Keen Smell. The bearfolk has advantage on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks that rely on smell.
ACTIONS
Multiattack. The bearfolk makes one Bite attack and one 
Quarterstaff attack. 
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) piercing damage.
Quarterstaff. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., 
one target. Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) bludgeoning damage or 8 (1d8 
+ 4) bludgeoning damage if used with two hands.
Repel Corruption (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). 
The bearfolk can speak words of power that repel evil 
creatures or creatures corrupted by shadow. Each evil-
aligned or shadow-corrupted creature within 30 feet of 
the bearfolk must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving 
throw or become frightened of the bearfolk for 1 minute. 
	
A creature affected in this way must spend its turns 
trying to move as far away from the bearfolk as it can and 
can’t willingly move closer to the source of its fear. It also 
can’t take reactions. For its action, it can use only the Dash 
action.
Spellcasting. The bearfolk casts one of the following spells, 
using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 15):
At will: druidcraft, guidance, produce flame 
2/day each: barkskin, cure wounds, faerie fire, speak 
with animals 
1/day each: call lightning, dispel magic, entangle, 
moonbeam
BONUS ACTIONS
Change Shape (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). 
The bearfolk magically transforms into a beast (with a 
challenge rating of 2 or less), remaining in that form for 
up to 4 hours, or back into their true form. Their weapon 
attacks while in beast form are magical. Otherwise, other 
than size, their statistics are the same in each form. 
They can speak and cast spells while in beast form. Any 
equipment they are wearing or carrying in Humanoid 
form melds into the beast form. They can’t activate, use, 
wield, or otherwise benefit from any of their equipment. 
They revert to their Humanoid form if they die.
Frenzy (1/Rest). The bearfolk can trigger a berserk 
frenzy that lasts 1 minute. While in the frenzy, they gain 
resistance to bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage 
from nonmagical attacks and have advantage on attack 
rolls. Attack rolls made against the bearfolk while they are 
frenzied have advantage. 
Bearfolk Thunderstomper
This gaudily dressed humanoid bear stomps on the ground to 
a pounding rhythm to accompany her singing.  
Bearfolk thunderstompers are raucous bards that 
help to elevate the fight against shadow.
Jolly Big Bards. Thunderstompers tend to be 
jovial, loud, and larger than life. They eagerly dive into 
dangerous situations, confident their dancing stomps 
will see them through. They typically accompany their 
stomping with singing or chanting, flute playing, or 
some form of percussion instrument.
Way of the Stomp. The bearfolk developed the 
thunderstomper style as a way of mimicking the 
sounds and vibrations of giant-kin. This allowed 
small groups of traveling bearfolk to fool their 
ancient enemies and avoid dangerous encounters. 
Later, the dancing style was honed to generate 
thunderous energy. 
Bearfolk Thunderstomper
Medium Humanoid (Bearfolk), Chaotic Neutral
ARMOR CLASS 15 (chain shirt)
HIT POINTS 105 (14d8 + 42)
SPEED 40 ft.
STR		
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
18 (+4) 	
15 (+2) 	
16 (+3) 	
9(−1) 	
14 (+2) 	 18 (+4)
SAVING THROWS Con +6, Dex +5
SKILLS Deception +7, Insight +5, Perception +5, 
Performance +7, Persuasion +7
SENSES darkvision 60 ft., tremorsense 30 ft., passive 
Perception 15
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 166 ---
166
Book of Ebon Tides
LANGUAGES Common, Giant, Umbral
CHALLENGE 6 (2,300 XP) 	
PROFICIENCY BONUS +3 
Deceptive Steps. While traveling, the bearfolk can perform 
a stomping dance that mimics the thundering footsteps 
of mighty giants. Any creature within a half mile that hears 
the sound, but that can’t see the bearfolk, must succeed 
on a DC 15 Perception check or believe the sound comes 
from real giants (or other Huge or larger creatures).
Keen Smell. The bearfolk has advantage on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks that rely on smell.
ACTIONS
Multiattack. The bearfolk uses their Thunder Stomp or 
Warsong. They also make one Bite attack and one War 
Flute attack. 
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) piercing damage.
War Flute. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) bludgeoning damage plus 4 (1d8) 
thunder damage.
Spellcasting. The bearfolk casts one of the following spells, 
using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 15): 
At will: dancing lights, prestidigitation, vicious mockery
2/day each: charm person, disguise self, mirror image, 
thunderwave
1/day each: compulsion, enthrall, freedom of movement, 
hypnotic pattern
Thunder Stomp. The bearfolk hammers their feet on the 
ground while chanting, emitting destructive energy in a 
15-foot cube. Each creature in that area must succeed on 
a DC 15 Strength saving throw or take 10 (3d6) thunder 
damage and be knocked prone.
Warsong. The bearfolk sets an inspiring rhythm with their 
dancing. Each ally of the bearfolk within 60 feet of them 
has advantage on all saving throws against being charmed 
or frightened until the end of the bearfolk’s next turn.
BONUS ACTIONS
Frenzy (1/Rest). The bearfolk can trigger a berserk frenzy 
that lasts 1 minute. They gain resistance to bludgeoning, 
piercing, and slashing damage from nonmagical weapons 
and have advantage on attack rolls. Attack rolls made 
against a frenzied bearfolk have advantage.
Taunt (2/Rest). The bearfolk can target one creature within 
30 feet of them. If the target can hear the bearfolk, the 
target must succeed on a DC 15 Charisma saving throw 
or have disadvantage on ability checks, attack rolls, and 
saving throws until the start of the bearfolk’s next turn.
Birch Siren
An impossibly thin figure passes through the trees, its skin 
and clothes formed of curling silver birch bark. The autumn 
leaves that adorn its crown whisper strangely in the breeze.
Birch sirens are a less common variety of treant that 
often live together in family units called copses. 
These sirens are more malicious than their larger 
counterparts and delight in luring travelers deeper into 
dangerous woodland with their haunting melodies. 
Shadow Wood. The largest population of birch 
sirens lives in the Shadow Realm, in the rarely traveled 
portions of forest that span the region. Occasionally, 
birch sirens are coerced to lend aid and protection to 
shadow fey rangers who hunt such dangerous woods.
Elven Origins. Birch sirens are rumored to have 
been created by the magic of the elves. These tree-folk 
were once guardians of vast orchards and beautiful 
gardens, contributing to the wonder of such places 
with their alluring songs. When the elves began to 
fade from the world, so too did the purpose of the 
birch sirens, and now they exist as cruel shadows of 
their former selves. 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 167 ---
167
Monsters and NPCs
Birch Siren
Large Plant, Chaotic Evil
ARMOR CLASS 16 (natural armor) 
HIT POINTS 147 (14d10 + 70)
SPEED 30 ft.
STR		
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
18 (+4)	
10 (+0)	
21 (+5)	
12 (+1)	
18 (+4)	
12 (+1)
DAMAGE VULNERABILITIES fire
DAMAGE RESISTANCES bludgeoning, piercing, psychic
SENSES passive Perception 14
LANGUAGES Common, Druidic, Sylvan, Umbral
CHALLENGE 11 (7,200 XP) 	
PROFICIENCY BONUS +4
False Appearance. While the birch siren remains 
motionless, it is indistinguishable from a normal tree.
Rustling Copse. If two or more birch sirens use their 
Haunting Tune ability while within 300 feet of one 
another, saving throws to resist the effect are rolled with 
disadvantage. 
ACTIONS
Multiattack. The birch siren makes two Slam attacks. It can 
replace one of these attacks with Psychic Shriek. 
Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 14 (3d6 + 4) bludgeoning damage.
Haunting Tune. The birch siren rustles its leaves, creating 
a haunting chorus. Each humanoid within 300 feet of the 
birch siren that can hear the song must succeed on a DC 
17 Wisdom saving throw or become charmed. The birch 
siren must take a bonus action on its subsequent turns to 
continue the chorus. It can stop the chorus at any time. 
The tune ends if the birch siren is incapacitated. 
	
While charmed by the birch siren, a creature uses all its 
movement to move in a random direction. To determine 
the direction, roll a d8 and assign a direction to each die 
face. The creature cannot take actions while charmed in 
this way. Whenever a target takes damage or begins a turn 
unable to hear the chorus, it can repeat the saving throw. 
If the saving throw is successful, the effect ends on it.
A target that successfully saves is immune to this birch 
siren’s tune for the next 24 hours. 
Psychic Shriek. The birch siren emits a soundless scream 
that tears at the minds of its victims. All non-plant 
creatures within 30 feet of the birch siren must make a DC 
17 Constitution saving throw, taking 22 (4d8 + 3) psychic 
damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a 
successful one.
Darakhul General
This proud and commanding darakhul meets every threat 
with a steely gaze and a blade crackling with necrotic power. 
Imperial Authority. All darakhul and ghouls 
automatically acknowledge the commanding 
presence of a general but may not automatically obey 
depending on the relationship between them.
Hungry Dead Nature. Darakhul generals don’t 
require air or sleep.
Darakhul General
Medium Undead, Lawful Evil
ARMOR CLASS 19 (half plate, shield)
HIT POINTS 212 (25d8 + 100)
SPEED 30 ft.
STR		
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
18 (+4) 	
16 (+3) q18 (+4) 	
14(+2) 	
14 (+2) 	 18 (+4)
SKILLS Insight +7, Intimidation +9, Perception +7
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 168 ---
168
Book of Ebon Tides
DAMAGE RESISTANCES necrotic 
DAMAGE IMMUNITIES poison
CONDITION IMMUNITIES charmed, exhaustion, poisoned
SENSES darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 17
LANGUAGES Common, Undercommon
CHALLENGE 15 (13,000 XP) 	
PROFICIENCY BONUS +5
Legendary Resistance (1/Day). If the darakhul fails a saving 
throw, they can choose to succeed instead.
Master of Disguise. A darakhul in a prepared disguise has 
advantage on Charisma (Deception) checks made to pass 
as a living creature. While using this ability, the darakhul 
loses their Stench.
Necrotic Weapons. The darakhul’s weapon attacks are 
magical. When the darakhul hits with any weapon, the 
weapon deals an extra 5d6 necrotic damage (included in 
the attack).
Stench. Any creature that starts its turn within 5 feet of the 
darakhul must succeed on a DC 18 Constitution saving 
throw or be poisoned until the start of its next turn. On 
a successful saving throw, the creature is immune to the 
darakhul’s Stench for 24 hours.
Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the darakhul has 
disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks that rely on sight.
Turning Defiance. The darakhul and any ghouls within 60 
feet of the darakhul have advantage on saving throws 
against effects that turn undead.
ACTIONS
Multiattack. The darakhul uses Targeting Directive and 
makes three weapon attacks.
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 14 (2d8 + 5) piercing damage plus 10 (3d6) 
necrotic damage. If the target is a humanoid, they must 
succeed on a DC 18 Constitution saving throw or contract 
darakhul fever.
Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 12 (2d6 + 5) slashing damage plus 10 (3d6) 
necrotic damage. If the target is a creature other than an 
undead, it must succeed on a DC 18 Constitution saving 
throw or be paralyzed for 1 minute. The target can repeat 
the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending 
the effect on itself on a success. If a humanoid is paralyzed 
for more than 2 rounds, it contracts darakhul fever.
Longsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., 
one target. Hit: 9 (1d8 + 5) bludgeoning damage plus 17 
(5d6) necrotic damage.
Tactical Strike (Recharge 5–6). The darakhul barks out an 
order. Up to five allied ghouls within 120 feet that can hear 
the darakhul can use their reactions to each make one 
weapon attack.
Targeting Directive. One of the darakhul’s allies within 60 
feet that can hear the directive deals an extra 10 (3d6) 
damage to creatures it hits with a weapon attack until the 
beginning of the darakhul’s next turn.
LEGENDARY ACTIONS
The darakhul general can take three legendary 
actions, choosing from the options below. Only 
one legendary action option can be used at a time 
and only at the end of another creature’s turn. The 
darakhul regains spent legendary actions at the start 
of their turn:
•	 Reposition. The darakhul can take a Dash action.
•	 Attack (Costs 2 action). The darakhul makes one 
weapon attack.
•	 Rejuvenation (Costs 3 actions). The darakhul 
drains life energy from one ghoul ally within 60 
feet that they can see. The ghoul crumbles to dust 
and the darakhul regains hit points equal to the 
target’s remaining hit points, plus 1 for each of the 
target’s Hit Dice.
Gnomish Distiller
The maniacal-looking gnome before you has a large 
cask‑shaped apparatus strapped to his back. He stares 
intently with jaundice-yellow eyes and a too-wide grin. 
Half of the gnome’s once-glorious red mustache has clearly 
been burned away, probably by acid.
Gnomish distillers unlock the destructive secrets 
within alchemical reagents and brew them into highly 
volatile solutions.
Strange Science. Gnomish distillers are driven by 
the pursuit of knowledge and believe that all reagents, 
magical or otherwise, including shadowstuff, can 
be distilled to a more potent version of their natural 
state. The quest to unlock the secret nature hidden 
within all things has frequently led to catastrophic 
destruction in the name of natural philosophy. 
Wyrd Alchemy for Sale. Wyrd gnomes embrace 
the darker side of invention, and gnomish distillers 
epitomize this trait. Distillers weaponize the 
knowledge gained from alchemical pursuits by 
creating deadly solutions, sprays, poisons, and 
explosives to sell to the highest bidder.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 169 ---
169
Monsters and NPCs
Gnomish Distiller
Medium Humanoid (Wyrd Gnome), Any Chaotic 
Alignment
ARMOR CLASS 15 (studded leather) 
HIT POINTS 82 (15d8 + 15)
SPEED 30 ft.
STR		
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
10 (+0)	
16 (+3)	
16 (+3)	
17 (+3)	
13 (+1)	
14 (+2)
SAVING THROWS Con +6, Int +6
SKILLS Arcana +6, Medicine +4, Nature +6
SENSES darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 11
LANGUAGES Common, Gnomish, Sylvan, Umbral
CHALLENGE 5 (1,800 XP) 	
PROFICIENCY BONUS +3
Prescience. When the gnome finishes a long rest, roll a 
d20 and record the number rolled. Before their next long 
rest, they can replace one attack roll, saving throw, or 
ability check made by them or a creature that they can 
see, using this prescience roll. They must choose to do so 
before the roll.
ACTIONS
Multiattack. The gnome uses Dispensing Apparatus and 
makes one weapon attack. 
Shortsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., 
one target. Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) piercing damage.
Acidic Crossbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, range 
30/120 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) piercing damage 
plus 11 (2d10) acid damage.
Dispensing Apparatus. A gnomish distiller carries a 
backpack-like apparatus designed to expel a variety of 
damaging mixtures. While wearing the apparatus, a 
distiller can create one of the following effects, the same 
effect cannot be used twice in a row:
	• The apparatus expels a 20-foot-radius sphere of 
poisonous gas centered on a point the distiller 
chooses within 30 feet. The sphere spreads around 
corners, and its area is heavily obscured. The gas 
lingers in the air for 1 minute. A creature that starts 
its turn in the cloud must succeed on a DC 15 
Constitution saving throw or spend its action that turn 
retching and reeling.
	• The apparatus expels a shower of a caustic solution in 
a line 30 feet long and 5 feet wide in a direction of the 
distiller’s choice. Each creature in that line must make 
a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw, taking 18 (4d8) acid 
damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a 
successful one. 
	• The apparatus expels slick grease in a 10-foot square 
centered on a point the distiller chooses within 30 
feet. When the grease appears, each creature standing 
in its area must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving 
throw or fall prone. A creature that enters the area or 
ends its turn there must also succeed on a Dexterity 
saving throw or fall prone.
Spellcasting. The gnome casts one of the following spells, 
requiring no material components and using Wisdom as 
the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 12): 
At will: guidance
1/day: augury, identify
BONUS ACTIONS
Alchemical Capsule. The gnome breaks one of two 
capsules, contained in artificial teeth, and immediately 
gains the benefits of the stored potion. Either choose 
which two potions the gnome has or assume they have a 
potion of invisibility and a potion of growth.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 170 ---
170
Book of Ebon Tides
Keeper of Hounds
Standing just behind a pair of menacing black dogs is a 
shadowy figure with crossed arms. A silver whistle dangles 
from his smirking lips. The evil-looking yellow light shining 
in his eyes is mirrored by the growling hounds.
Keepers of hounds are humanoids blessed by the 
shadow fey with the ability to form magical bonds 
with the hunting hounds bred in the Shadow Realm.
Born to Lead. While extensive training is required 
to become a keeper of hounds, most keepers 
are born with an innate affinity for beasts. Fey 
children who demonstrate skill with beast handling 
are quickly apprenticed to keepers in hopes of 
developing their talents.
Valued Courtiers. Hunting is a beloved pastime 
of shadow fey nobles, so maintaining a keeper of 
hounds as part of a noble’s household staff confers 
great prestige. Beasts bred in the Shadow Realm 
tend toward evil dispositions, making the keeper’s 
controlling influence all the more valuable.
Keeper of Hounds
Medium Humanoid (Any Race), Any Alignment
ARMOR CLASS 15 (studded leather) 
HIT POINTS 105 (14d8 + 42)
SPEED 40 ft.
STR		
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
15 (+2)	
17 (+3)	
16 (+3)	
14 (+2)	
14 (+2)	
16 (+3)
SAVING THROWS Dex +6, Con +6, Cha +6
SKILLS Animal Handling +5, Perception +5, Stealth +6, 
Survival +5
SENSES darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 15
LANGUAGES Common, Elvish, Umbral
CHALLENGE 5 (1, 800 XP) 	
PROFICIENCY BONUS +3
Hound’s Tooth. The keeper can comprehend and verbally 
communicate with dogs and other canids (beasts only).
Pack Master. Allied beasts within 60 feet of the keeper 
have advantage on saving throws to resist charm and fear 
effects.
Pack Tactics. The keeper has advantage on an attack 
roll against a creature if at least one of the keeper’s 
allies is within 5 feet of the creature and the ally isn’t 
incapacitated.
Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the keeper has 
disadvantage on attack rolls and on Wisdom (Perception) 
checks that rely on sight.
Unseelie Blessing. The keeper has advantage on saving 
throws against being charmed, and magic can’t put them 
to sleep.
ACTIONS
Multiattack. The keeper makes two weapon attacks.
Rapier. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 7 (1d8 + 3) piercing damage plus 7 (2d6) 
poison damage. 
Longbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, range 
150/600 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d8 + 3) piercing damage 
plus 7 (2d6) poison damage. 
Command. The keeper casts the command spell, without 
expending a spell slot. Beasts have disadvantage on the 
saving throw. 
BONUS ACTIONS
Shadow Traveler (3/Day). While in shadows, dim light, or 
darkness, the keeper disappears into the darkness and 
reappears in an unoccupied space it can see within 30 
feet. A tendril of inky smoke appears at the origin and 
destination when it uses this trait. 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 171 ---
171
Monsters and NPCs
Keeper of Ravens
Before your eyes, the tall, spiraling column of closely packed 
ravens transforms into a pale-skinned woman, wearing a 
feathered cloak.
Blessed by the shadow fey, keepers of ravens are 
humanoids who bond with the ravens native to the 
Shadow Realm. These gifted few learn how to see 
through the birds’ eyes and even transform their 
bodies into feathered swarms. 
Master Informants. Keepers of ravens are prized 
as spies and informants throughout the faerie courts. 
While most natives know to steer clear of a raven’s 
watchful eye, visitors to the courts often have no idea 
their activities can be monitored this way.
Solitary Pursuit. While these keepers are in 
demand as spies, they are unpopular in most social 
circles. Forming the bond required to pursue their 
magic means keepers spend vastly more time 
socializing with beasts than with other fey, which 
isolates them from the politics of court.
Keeper of Ravens
Medium Humanoid (Any Race), Any Alignment
ARMOR CLASS 15 (leather) 
HIT POINTS 105 (14d8 + 42)
SPEED 40 ft.
STR		
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
14 (+2)	
18 (+4)	
16 (+3)	
14 (+2)	
14 (+2)	
16 (+3)
SAVING THROWS Dex +6, Con +5, Cha +5
SKILLS Animal Handling +4, Perception +4, Stealth +6, 
Survival +4
SENSES darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 14
LANGUAGES Common, Elvish, Umbral
CHALLENGE 4 (1,100 XP) 	
PROFICIENCY BONUS +2
Raven Tongue. The keeper can comprehend and verbally 
communicate with ravens and other corvids (beasts only).
Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the keeper has 
disadvantage on attack rolls and on Wisdom (Perception) 
checks that rely on sight.
Unseelie Blessing. The keeper has advantage on saving 
throws against being charmed, and magic can’t put them 
to sleep.
ACTIONS
Multiattack. The keeper makes two Rapier attacks or two 
Hand Crossbow attacks.
Rapier. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) piercing damage plus 3 (1d6) 
poison damage. 
Hand Crossbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, range 
30/120 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) piercing damage 
plus 3 (1d6) poison damage. 
Change Shape (2/Day). The keeper can polymorph into 
a swarm of ravens or back into their true form. While in 
raven form, the keeper can’t speak, their walking speed 
is 5 feet, and they have a flying speed of 50 feet. Their 
statistics, other than their size and speed, are unchanged. 
Anything they are wearing transforms with them, but 
nothing they are carrying does. They revert to their true 
form if they die.
Raven Sight. The keeper of ravens can see through the 
eyes of any raven they are aware of within 10 miles. The 
keeper sees what the raven sees and hears what it hears 
until the start of the keeper’s next turn. During this time, 
the keeper’s own ears and eyes are deaf and blind.
BONUS ACTIONS
Change Shape (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). 
The keeper magically transforms into a swarm of ravens 
or back into their true form. Their statistics, other than 
size, are the same in each form. Any equipment they are 
wearing or carrying in Humanoid form melds into the 
swarm of ravens form. They can’t activate, use, wield, 
or otherwise benefit from any of their equipment. They 
revert to their Humanoid form if they die.
Shadow Traveler (3/Day). While in shadows, dim light, or 
darkness, the keeper disappears into the darkness and 
reappears in an unoccupied space it can see within 30 
feet. A tendril of inky smoke appears at the origin and 
destination when it uses this trait. 
Knight of Shadows
A grey-skinned figure in an impressive suit of reflective 
black plate armor towers over you. The cruelness of the spikes 
of his tower shield are matched only by his sneering smirk.
Humanoids who dwell in the Shadow Realm 
sometimes pursue the path of a shadow knight to 
better serve their liege lords. Blessed by the shadow 
fey, these glorified bruisers are dark reflections of the 
cavaliers who protect the mortal world.
Dark Arms. Knights of shadow carry shadow fey 
forged swords and shields imbued with potent magic. 
Merely touching the surface of these armaments is 
enough to drain warmth and vitality.
Sensory Training. Every knight of shadows 
is trained to fight in magically dark conditions, 
so they are equipped to deal with the many 
light‑manipulating creatures who haunt the Shadow 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 172 ---
172
Book of Ebon Tides
Realm. They combine their talents for blind fighting 
with their magical control of darkness to get the drop 
on unsuspecting foes. 
Knight of Shadows
Medium Humanoid (Any Race), Any Lawful Alignment
ARMOR CLASS 20 (plate, shield) 
HIT POINTS 153 (18d8 + 72)
SPEED 30 ft.
STR		
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
18 (+4)	
14 (+2)	
19 (+4)	
14 (+2)	
14 (+2)	
16 (+3)
SAVING THROWS Con +8, Wis +6
SKILLS Intimidation +7, Perception +6, Persuasion +7, 
Stealth +6
DAMAGE RESISTANCES cold; bludgeoning, piercing, and 
slashing damage from nonmagical weapons that aren’t 
cold iron
CONDITION IMMUNITIES charmed, frightened
SENSES blindsight 30 ft., darkvision 120 ft., passive 
Perception 16
LANGUAGES Common, Elvish, Umbral
CHALLENGE 12 (8,400 XP) 	
PROFICIENCY BONUS +4
Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the knight has 
disadvantage on attack rolls and on Wisdom (Perception) 
checks that rely on sight.
Unseelie Blessing. The knight has advantage on saving 
throws against being charmed, and magic can’t put them 
to sleep.
ACTIONS
Multiattack. The knight makes two Longsword attacks and 
one Shield Bash attack. 
Longsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., 
one target. Hit: 9 (1d10 + 4) piercing damage plus 10 (3d6) 
cold damage.
Shield Bash. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., 
one target. Hit: 9 (1d10 + 4) bludgeoning damage plus 
10 (3d6) cold damage. If the target is a creature, it must 
succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw or be 
stunned until the beginning of the knight’s next turn.
BONUS ACTIONS
Shadow Commander. The knight casts darkness, requiring 
no material components. The knight must concentrate on 
this spell as normal.
REACTIONS
Shield Master. When the knight is attacked by a creature 
they can see within 5 feet, they gain a +5 bonus to their 
AC. If the attack misses, the knight may immediately make 
a Shield Bash attack against the target.
Lesser Lunar Devil
This winged fiend looks like something that has stepped out 
of a nightmare. Its elongated head is dominated by a mouth 
filled with razor-sharp teeth, and its spindly arms and legs 
end in long vicious talons. Where the moonlight catches it, 
its body appears almost transparent. 
These nightmarish creatures are smaller, weaker 
versions of the lunar devil (see Tome of Beasts), 
lazy and boastful fiends that draw strength from the 
light of the moon. Lesser lunar devils are often found 
serving their more powerful brethren, sent as advance 
scouts to spy on a druid circle their master intends 
to subvert, or to identify the werewolf pack leader 
that must be removed before the lunar devil can seize 
control of the pack. 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 173 ---
173
Monsters and NPCs
Lesser Lunar Devil
Medium Fiend (Devil), Lawful Evil
ARMOR CLASS 14
HIT POINTS 52 (8d8 + 16)
SPEED 40 ft., fly 60 ft. (hover)
STR		
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
19 (+4)	
18 (+4)	
15 (+2)	
14 (+2)	
15 (+2)	
16 (+3)
SKILLS Perception +4, Stealth +6
DAMAGE RESISTANCES cold; bludgeoning, piercing, and 
slashing damage from nonmagical weapons that aren’t 
silvered
DAMAGE IMMUNITIES fire, poison
CONDITION IMMUNITIES poisoned
SENSES darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 14
LANGUAGES Celestial, Draconic, Elvish, Infernal, Sylvan, 
Umbral; telepathy 120 ft.
CHALLENGE 4 (1,100 XP) 	
PROFICIENCY BONUS +2
Devil’s Sight. Magical darkness doesn’t impede the devil’s 
darkvision.
Light Incorporeality. The devil is semi-incorporeal when 
standing in moonlight and is immune to all nonmagical 
attacks in such conditions. Even when hit by spells 
or magic weapons, it takes only half damage from a 
corporeal source, with the exception of force damage. 
Holy water can affect the devil as it does incorporeal 
undead.
Magic Resistance. The devil has advantage on saving 
throws against spells and other magical effects.
ACTIONS
Multiattack. The devil makes one Bite attack, one Claw 
attack, and one Tail attack. Alternatively, it can use Hurl 
Moonlight twice.
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) piercing damage.
Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 9 (2d4 + 4) slashing damage.
Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) bludgeoning damage.
Hurl Moonlight. Ranged Spell Attack: +5 to hit, range 120 
ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d10) cold damage, and the target 
must succeed on a DC 13 Constitution saving throw or 
become blinded until the end of the devil’s next turn.
Invisibility. The devil magically turns invisible until it attacks 
or until its concentration ends (as if concentrating on a 
spell). Any equipment the devil wears or carries is invisible 
with it.
BONUS ACTIONS
Light Step. The devil teleports, along with any equipment 
it is wearing or carrying, up to 80 feet to an unoccupied 
space (in moonlight) it can see.
Lunar Devils in Midgard
Unlike most devils, these fiends are uncommon in the 
Eleven Hells, rarely found outside of Sa-Mozan, the 
City of Silences, in the Third Hell of Qes-al-Marit, home 
of Alquam, Demon Lord of Night. Lesser lunar devils 
are much more widespread in the Shadow Realm. At 
any one time, a dozen or so of the creatures roost 
atop the Tower of the Moon where the Moonlit King 
once dwelt in exile, and hundreds of them flitter about 
his new skyborne palace, partially taking the role that 
shadow goblins perform in other courts. The Moonlit 
King dispatches the devils on bizarre missions across 
the plane and to Midgard, rewarding those that please 
him, by promoting them to full-fledged lunar devils, and 
demoting others to lesser status, seemingly on a whim.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 174 ---
174
Book of Ebon Tides
VARIANT
Summon Devil (1/Day). The devil can attempt a magical 
summoning. As an action, the devil has a 30 percent 
chance of summoning a lesser lunar devil.
(A lunar devil, see Tome of Beasts, with the Summon 
Devil action can choose to summon 1d6 lesser lunar devils 
instead of two chain devils or one lunar devil.)
Memory Thief
Someone in black leather crouches over the head of an 
unconscious creature. She is making an arcane gesture 
with one hand, and a strange purple smoke spirals from the 
unconscious creature into the thief’s hand. 
Blessed by shadow fey, hags, or other magical 
creatures, memory thieves are humanoids who 
are trained in the art of magically capturing the 
memories and knowledge of other creatures.
Headhunters. The art of stealing memories 
first originated in the Shadow Realm in response 
to the shadow fey’s demand for distilled emotions 
and experiences. While many fey would claim they 
bargain fairly for the memories they enjoy, the black 
market for their wares continues to thrive.
Trade Network. While memory thieves have 
perfected the art of stealing memories, they rely 
on others to refine and store their acquisitions, to 
package and sell them. For this reason, memory 
thieves are almost always in the employ of a shadow 
fey, hag, enchanter, or other capable spellcaster with 
the proper tools to distill memories. 
Memory Thief
Medium Humanoid (Any Race), Any Non-Good Alignment
ARMOR CLASS 15 (studded leather) 
HIT POINTS 71 (13d8 + 13)
SPEED 30 ft.
STR		
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
10 (+0)	
16 (+3)	
13 (+1)	
12 (+1)	
11 (+0)	
18 (+4)
SAVING THROWS Dex +5, Cha +6
SKILLS Arcana+3, Stealth +5
DAMAGE IMMUNITIES psychic
SENSES darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 10
LANGUAGES Common, Elvish, Umbral
CHALLENGE 2 (450 XP) 	
PROFICIENCY BONUS +2
Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the memory 
thief has disadvantage on attack rolls and on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks that rely on sight.
Unseelie Blessing. The memory thief has advantage on 
saving throws against being charmed, and magic can’t put 
them to sleep.
ACTIONS
Multiattack. The memory thief makes two Shortsword 
attacks. 
Shortsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., 
one target. Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) piercing damage.
Stolen Spell. The memory thief casts a spell it has stolen, 
using its Perfect Copy reaction, by making an Intelligence 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 175 ---
175
Monsters and NPCs
(Arcana) check with advantage (DC equal to 10 + the level 
of the spell). The memory thief retains the spell on a failed 
check. Their innate spellcasting ability score is Charisma 
(save DC 14, +6 to hit with spell attacks).
BONUS ACTIONS
Steal Memory. The memory thief attempts to steal a 
memory from one creature they can see within 60 feet. 
The target must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving 
throw, or it temporarily loses one precious memory. The 
target has disadvantage on attack rolls, ability checks, or 
saving throws (memory thief’s choice) until the end of its 
next turn. If the target is a spellcaster that fails the saving 
throw by 5 or more, it loses one random spell slot of 3rd 
level or lower until it finishes a long rest.
REACTIONS
Perfect Copy. Immediately after a creature casts a spell that 
targets the memory thief or includes them in its area of 
effect, the memory thief can force the creature to make 
a DC 15 saving throw with its spellcasting ability modifier. 
On a failed save, the memory thief negates the spell’s 
effects and steals the knowledge of the spell. The memory 
thief knows the spell and can cast it using the Stolen Spell 
action. The memory thief forgets the spell after they cast 
it or after 8 hours have passed. They can only retain one 
spell at a time using this ability. The target can’t cast a 
stolen spells until it finishes a long rest.
Molefolk
This small, black-furred humanoid has oversized clawed 
hands, clamped together in a nervous gesture. His tiny eyes 
stare at you from behind a pair of thick spectacles positioned 
on his long pink nose. 
Very little is known about the secretive molefolk, and 
this reclusive race prefers it that way.
Subterranean Hermits. Molefolk are solitary 
creatures and fiercely defend their territories from 
intruders and other molefolk. These possessive 
individuals dig out intricate systems of tunnels to 
serve as their private strongholds. Every couple of 
years, a molefolk meets up with others of its species 
to mate, but otherwise, they are perfectly content to 
expand their underground homes in solitude.
Reluctant Guides. A molefolk’s ability to 
quickly create underground tunnels fit for travel 
is unparalleled. This talent attracts interest from 
cunning or desperate travelers hoping to sneak into or 
out of dangerous regions. A molefolk can occasionally 
be convinced or coerced to offer their skills. 
Molefolk
Small Humanoid (Molefolk), Neutral
ARMOR CLASS 13 (leather) 
HIT POINTS 11 (2d6 + 4)
SPEED 20 ft., burrow 40 ft.
STR		
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
12 (+1)	
13 (+2)	
14 (+2)	
13 (+1)	
12 (+1)	
11 (+1)
SKILLS Athletics +3, Stealth +4
SENSES tremorsense 30 ft., passive Perception 11
LANGUAGES Common, Umbral
CHALLENGE 1/4 (50 XP) 	
PROFICIENCY BONUS +2
Burrow. Molefolk cannot burrow into solid rock, but they 
can move through softer material like soil or loose rubble, 
leaving a usable tunnel 5 feet in diameter. 
Keen Smell. The molefolk has advantage on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks that rely on smell.
ACTIONS
Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) slashing damage.
Dirt Dive. The molefolk dives into the earth directly below 
them and can move up to their burrow speed. Moving in 
this manner does not provoke attacks of opportunity. 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 176 ---
176
Book of Ebon Tides
Moonshadow Catcher
A purple-skinned goblin with large green eyes effortlessly 
sticks to the wall, clutching a net woven from threads of pure 
shadow energy.
Moonshadow catchers are shadow goblins who have 
learned to magically bend the transitions between 
light and darkness.
Goblin Leaders. Moonshadow catchers are 
feared and respected by other shadow goblins and 
tend to hold leadership positions in goblin clans or 
settlements. Young shadow goblins are raised on tales 
of moonshadow catchers, stealing and devouring the 
shadows of children who disobey their elders.
Shadow Manipulation. Moonshadow catchers’ 
powers rely entirely on manipulating their own 
shadow and the shadows attached to the creatures 
around them. By using their own shadows as an 
additional appendage, a catcher 
can cling to walls and other difficult 
surfaces, much like a spider. 
Moonshadow Catcher
Small Humanoid (Goblinoid), Neutral Evil
ARMOR CLASS 13 
HIT POINTS 81 (18d6 + 18)
SPEED 30 ft.
STR		
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
10 (+0)	
18 (+4)	
12 (+1)	
13 (+1)	
12 (+1)	
10 (+0)
SKILLS Sleight of Hand +6, Stealth +6
SENSES darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 11
LANGUAGES Common, Elvish, Goblin, Umbral
CHALLENGE 2 (450 XP) 	
PROFICIENCY BONUS +2
Shadow Camouflage. The moonshadow catcher has 
advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks made to hide in 
dim light or darkness.
Spider Climb. The moonshadow catcher can climb difficult 
surfaces, including upside down on ceilings, without 
needing to make an ability check.
Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the moonshadow 
catcher has disadvantage on attack rolls and on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks that rely on sight.
Unseelie Blessing. The moonshadow catcher has 
advantage on saving throws against being charmed, and 
magic can’t put it to sleep.
ACTIONS
Multiattack. The moonshadow catcher makes two 
Shortsword attacks or two Hand Crossbow attacks. 
They can replace one of those attacks with either a 
Mooncatcher’s Net attack or a Steal Shadow attack.
Shortsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., 
one target. Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) piercing damage.
Hand Crossbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, range 
30/120 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) piercing damage, 
and the target must succeed on a DC 13 Constitution 
saving throw or be poisoned for 1 hour. If the saving 
throw fails by 5 or more, the target is also paralyzed while 
poisoned in this way. The target is no longer paralyzed if 
it takes damage or if another creature takes an action to 
shake it awake.
Mooncatcher’s Net. Ranged Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, 
ranged 20/60 ft., one Medium or smaller creature. Hit: 
The target is restrained until it escapes the net. A creature 
can use its action to make a DC 16 Strength check to free 
itself or another creature in the net, ending the effect on 
a success. Dealing 15 slashing damage to the net (AC 14) 
frees the target.
Steal Shadow (Recharge 5–6). The moonshadow catcher 
targets a creature they can see within 60 feet, turning the 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 177 ---
177
Monsters and NPCs
target’s own shadow against them. The target must make 
a DC 13 Strength saving throw. On a failed save, they are 
restrained until the end of the moonshadow catcher’s next 
turn. On a successful save, they are grappled until the end 
of the moonshadow catcher’s next turn. 
BONUS ACTIONS
Nimble Escape. The moonshadow catcher takes the 
Disengage or Hide action.
Oma Rattenfanger,  
Keeper of the Plain
Oma Rattenfanger resembles a small, plump, motherly elf 
with a kind smile and cold, wicked eyes. She wears a well-
made, clean but slightly worn dress with a large skirt and a 
matching bonnet-style cap. 
Oma’s slightly iridescent wings give away that she 
was once a pixie, though her time in the Shadow 
Realm has significantly changed her. The fey has a 
fondness for young lost souls who make their way to 
the Shadow Realm, and she eagerly takes them under 
her wing.
Tenebrous Plain. Oma Rattenfanger staked 
her claim in the Tenebrous Plain a great time ago. 
Since then, the plain has grown and shifted under 
her care, giving her orphans a home where they can 
thrive. With the addition of other creatures over the 
centuries, Oma’s power in the Tenebrous Plain has 
only grown. Her home is a small, thatched hut that 
can appear wherever she wants on the plain.
OMA RATTENFANGER
Tiny Fey, Chaotic Neutral
ARMOR CLASS 17 (studded leather)
HIT POINTS 143 (26d4 + 78)
SPEED 10 ft., fly 60 ft. (hover)
STR		
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
10 (+0) 	
20 (+5) 	
17 (+3) 	
16 (+3) 	 15 (+2) 	 22 (+6)
SAVING THROWS Dex +9, Con +7, Wis +6
SKILLS Deception +10, Intimidation +10, Perception +6, 
Persuasion +10
CONDITION IMMUNITIES charmed, unconscious
SENSES truesight 60 ft., passive Perception 16
LANGUAGES Common, Elvish, Umbral
CHALLENGE 12 (8,400 XP) 	
PROFICIENCY BONUS +4
Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If Oma fails a saving throw, 
she can choose to succeed instead.
Shadowy Weapons. Oma’s weapon attacks are magical. 
When Oma hits with any weapon, the weapon deals an 
extra 2d8 necrotic damage (included in the attack).
ACTIONS
Multiattack. Oma makes two Mentor’s Cane attacks or one 
Mentor’s Cane attack and one Scold attack.
Mentor’s Cane. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 
ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d6 + 5) bludgeoning damage plus 
9 (2d8) necrotic damage.
Scold. Ranged Spell Attack: +10 to hit, range 120 ft., one 
target. Hit: 14 (4d6) psychic damage. 
Call Children (1/Day). Oma magically calls 2d4 skeletons 
or zombies or one orphan of the black (see Tome of 
Beasts 2). The called creatures arrive in 1d4 rounds, acting 
as allies of Oma and obeying her spoken commands. The 
creatures remain for 1 hour or until Oma dies or dismisses 
them as a bonus action.
Invisibility. Oma turns invisible until she attacks or uses 
Call Children or until her concentration ends (as if 
concentrating on a spell). Any equipment she wears or 
carries is invisible with her.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 178 ---
178
Book of Ebon Tides
Radiant Lord 
Poised in thoughtful contemplation is an androgenous, elfin 
figure holding an intricately wrought spyglass. White-gold 
curls fall to their shoulders, and their brow is encircled by 
motes of light that glow like stars. Their outfit is a crisp white 
suit but overlayed with a sash colored with the pink and 
orange ombré of a painted sky ready to greet the rising sun. 
The honorably appointed Radiant Chancellor Ectius, 
ambassador to the stars, is a steadfast advisor to the 
Court of One Million Stars. The Radiant Chancellor 
has served the court since its inception, long before 
the ruling Prince Valendan ascended to rulership. 
While it is strange that such an ancient and capable 
fey would acquiesce to the dominion of another, 
anyone who meets Ectius immediately understands 
where their true ambition lies.
Pursuit of Knowledge. Ectius is obsessed with 
the beauty and radiant power given to stars. Over 
the thousands of years they have existed, Ectius 
has sacrificed material pleasures, social status, 
and personal identity to pursue ultimate cosmic 
knowledge. The chancellor’s efforts have been 
rewarded, for they have learned hundreds of true 
names for the stars that hang in the heavens. With the 
acquisition of each name, Ectius grows in power, for 
to know a star’s true name is to have dominion over 
them. For now, the Radiant Chancellor is content to 
serve and advise the members of the royal court. 
Radiant Lord
Medium Fey, Neutral
ARMOR CLASS 18 (natural armor) 
HIT POINTS 170 (20d8 + 80)
SPEED 50 ft., fly 50 ft. (hover)
STR		
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
14 (+2)	
21 (+5)	
18 (+4)	
18 (+4)	
18 (+4)	
20 (+5)
SAVING THROWS Con +10, Wis +10, Cha +11
SKILLS Arcana +10, Perception +10
DAMAGE RESISTANCES cold; bludgeoning, piercing, and 
slashing damage from nonmagical weapons that aren’t 
cold iron
DAMAGE IMMUNITIES fire, radiant
CONDITION IMMUNITIES charmed, frightened, poisoned
SENSES blindsight 30 ft., darkvision 120 ft., passive 
Perception 20
Spellcasting. Oma casts one of the following spells, 
requiring no material components and using Charisma as 
the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 18): 
At will: charm person, command, create food and water, 
dancing lights, druidcraft
3/day each: bane, bless, confusion, detect thoughts, silence, 
zone of truth
1/day each: black tentacles, blight, plant growth
BONUS ACTIONS
Keeper of the Children. Oma instructs one allied skeleton, 
zombie, or orphan of the black (see Tome of Beasts 
2) within 30 feet of her to make one attack as a reaction 
against a creature Oma attacked this round.
LEGENDARY ACTIONS
Oma Rattenfanger can take three legendary actions, 
choosing from the options below. Only one legendary 
action option can be used at a time and only at the 
end of another creature’s turn. Oma regains spent 
legendary actions at the start of her turn:
•	 Flight. Oma flies up to half her flying speed.
•	 Mentor’s Cane. Oma makes one Mentor’s Cane 
attack.
•	 Time to Play. Oma commands all skeletons, 
zombies, and orphans of the black (see Tome of 
Beasts 2) she controls within 60 feet of her to move 
up to half their speed. A creature that moves out 
of an enemy’s reach because of this movement 
doesn’t provoke an opportunity attack.
•	 Oma Knows Best (Costs 2 Actions). Oma targets 
one creature she can see within 30 feet of her. The 
target must succeed on a DC 18 Charisma saving 
throw or be charmed for 1 minute. The charmed 
target can repeat the saving throw at the end of 
each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a 
success. If a target’s saving throw is successful or 
the effect ends for it, the target is immune to Oma 
Knows Best for the next 24 hours.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 179 ---
179
Monsters and NPCs
LANGUAGES Celestial, Common, Elvish, Sylvan, Umbral; 
telepathy 100 ft.
CHALLENGE 18 (20,000 XP) 	
PROFICIENCY BONUS +6
Cloak of Dawn. When a creature that can see the radiant 
lord starts its turn within 60 feet of them, the radiant lord 
can force it to make a DC 19 Constitution saving throw 
if the radiant lord isn’t incapacitated and can see the 
creature. If the saving throw fails, the creature is stunned 
until the beginning of its next turn. 
Unless surprised, a creature can avert its eyes to avoid the 
saving throw at the start of its turn. If the creature does 
so, it can’t see the radiant lord until the start of its next 
turn, when it can avert its eyes again. If the creature looks 
at the radiant lord in the meantime, it must immediately 
make the save. 
Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the radiant lord fails a 
saving throw, they can choose to succeed instead.
Lord of Light. Whenever the radiant lord deals damage, 
they can choose to change the damage type to radiant. 
Additionally, creatures that would normally be immune to 
radiant damage are only resistant to radiant damage dealt 
by the radiant lord. 
Magic Resistance. The radiant lord has advantage on 
saving throws against spells and other magical effects. 
ACTIONS
Multiattack. The radiant lord makes two Starmetal 
Saber attacks or one Starmetal Saber attack and one 
Spellcasting attack. 
Starmetal Saber. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, range 
5 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d8 + 2) slashing damage plus 
10 (3d6) radiant damage. This is a magical weapon 
that counts as cold iron for the purpose of overcoming 
damage resistance.
Comet Shot. Ranged Spell Attack: +11 to hit, range 
150/600 ft., one target. Hit: 27 (5d10) radiant damage, 
and the target begins to glow with starlight. The radiant 
lord has advantage on the next attack roll made against a 
glowing target.
Dazzling Presence. Each creature of the radiant lord’s 
choice that is within 120 feet of the radiant lord and aware 
of them must succeed on a DC 19 Constitution saving 
throw or become blinded for 1 minute. A creature can 
repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, 
ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature’s 
saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the 
creature is immune to the radiant lord’s Dazzling Presence 
for the next 24 hours. 
Meteor Shower (Recharge 5–6). Falling stars hit the 
ground in a 20-foot-radius, 40-foot-high cylinder 
centered on a point the radiant lord can see within 300 
feet. Each creature in the cylinder must make a Dexterity 
saving throw, taking 28 (8d6) bludgeoning damage and 
35 (10d6) radiant damage on a failed save or half as much 
damage on a successful one.
Spellcasting. The radiant lord casts one of the following 
spells, requiring no material components and using 
Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 19): 
At will: daylight, faerie fire, thaumaturgy
3/day each: enthrall, fireball, sunbeam
1/day each: sunburst
LEGENDARY ACTIONS
Ectius can take three legendary actions, choosing 
from the options below. Only one legendary action 
option can be used at a time and only at the end 
of another creature’s turn. Ectius regains spent 
legendary actions at the start of their turn:
•	 Saber. Ectius makes a Starmetal Saber attack.
•	 Burn Away (2 actions). Ectius ends one spell, 
magical effect, or condition currently affecting 
them.
•	 Name the Stars (3 actions). Ectius invokes the 
true name of a star and summons a portion of its 
power. The star appears in an unoccupied space 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 180 ---
180
Book of Ebon Tides
Ectius can see. The star is a 20-foot-radius sphere. 
When the star appears, each creature (other 
than Ectius) within its area must make a DC 
19 Constitution saving throw, taking 33 (6d10) 
radiant damage on a failed save or half as much 
damage on a successful one. A creature trying to 
move while within the star must make a successful 
DC 19 Strength (Athletics) check to escape its 
gravitational pull. If it fails the check, it can’t 
move. The star disappears on the next initiative 
count of 20.
Radiant Lord’s Lair
Ectius dwells in a magnificent observatory built 
among the spires of the Starry Court. It is here that 
the radiant lord conducts never-ending research to 
discover the true name of each star in the heavens. 
The observatory is a beautiful structure forged from 
glass and gold, infused with Ectius’s power. 
LAIR ACTIONS
On initiative count 20 (losing initiative 
ties), Ectius takes a lair action to cause 
one of the following effects. Ectius can’t 
use the same effect 2 rounds in a row:
•	 Searing starlight rains down from 
the ceiling within the lair. Each 
creature of Ectius’s choice 
within the lair takes radiant 
damage equal to its own 
Constitution score.
•	 The entirety of the lair is 
illuminated in sunlight. 
It reverts to normal 
light at the beginning 
of next initiative 
count 20.
•	 The ambient temperature of the lair rises 
drastically. All creatures in the lair who aren’t 
immune to fire damage must succeed on a DC 
15 Constitution saving throw or gain one level of 
exhaustion.
River Giant
A tall, slender giant wades knee-deep through the river, 
holding a glowing fishing net in his hand. 
Shorter and slimmer than most other giants, river 
giants are found living along riverbanks throughout 
the Shadow Realm and in the mortal world where 
waterways cross or run alongside the shadow roads. 
River Travelers. Capable boat pilots, these 
introspective giants sometimes transport travelers 
up and down the rivers of the Shadow Realm in their 
wooden skiffs, but they are most often found wading 
through the water with their glistening mooncatcher’s 
nets (see Chapter 10). The giants use the nets to pull 
bits of souls and memories from the river. These 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 181 ---
181
Monsters and NPCs
fragments are bottled and traded to wizards and 
alchemists who use them to make memory philters 
(see Chapter 10) and other potions. 
River Giant
Large Giant, Neutral
ARMOR CLASS 14 (hide armor)
HIT POINTS 123 (13d10 + 52)
SPEED 40 ft., swim 20 ft.
STR		
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
20 (+5)	
15 (+2)	
18 (+4)	
11 (+0)	
14 (+2)	
11 (+0)
SAVING THROWS Dex +5, Con +7 Wis +5
SKILLS Athletics +8, Perception +5, Survival +5
DAMAGE RESISTANCES cold
SENSES darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 15
LANGUAGES Common, Giant, Umbral
CHALLENGE 6 (2,300 XP) 	
PROFICIENCY BONUS +3
Hold Breath. The giant can hold their breath for 10 minutes.
Magic Resistance. The giant has advantage on saving 
throws against spells and other magical effects.
Mindful Wader. The giant is immune to the effects of dark 
water (see Chapter 5 for more on dark water).
Netted Strike. Once per turn, the giant can deal an extra 10 
(3d6) damage to a restrained creature the giant hits with a 
weapon attack.
ACTIONS
Multiattack. The giant makes a Mooncatcher’s Net attack 
and then two Staff attacks. 
Staff. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 
5 ft. or range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d8 + 5) 
bludgeoning damage.
Mooncatcher’s Net. Ranged Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, 
ranged 20/60 ft., one Small, Medium, or Large creature. 
Hit: The target is restrained until it escapes the net. A 
creature can use its action to make a DC 16 Strength check 
to free itself or another creature in the net, ending the 
effect on a success. Dealing 15 slashing damage to the net 
(AC 14) frees the target.
Styx Giants
River giants who wade in the rivers of the Shadow Realm 
for too long become transformed by the dark waters. 
These shadow-touched giants are known as Styx giants. A 
Styx giant is CR 8 and uses the river giant statistics with the 
following changes:
•	 The giant has 182 hp
•	 They have a Wisdom score of 18 (Wis saving throw +7; 
Perception +7, Survival +7; passive Perception 17)
•	 The giant can use Netted Strike trait twice on their turn
These giants have the following additional traits:
Confusing Memories. A creature trapped in the giant’s 
Mooncatcher’s Net makes a DC 15 Wisdom saving 
throw at the start of its turn. On a failed save, the 
creature is bamboozled as the memory fragments in 
the net mingle with its own memories. Roll a d6 and 
consult the table below to determine what it does 
during its current turn:
Spellcasting. The giant casts one of the following 
spells, requiring no material components and using 
Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 15): 
At will: chill touch (as a 5th-level spell), darkness
1/Day: control water, hypnotic pattern, modify 
memory
BONUS ACTIONS
Shadow Traveler (3/Day). While in shadows, dim light, 
or darkness, the giant disappears into the darkness and 
reappears in an unoccupied space it can see within 30 
feet. A tendril of inky smoke appears at the origin and 
destination when it uses this trait. 
REACTIONS
Shadow Cloak (3/Day). When the giant is targeted by an 
attack, it can cloak itself in shadows. Attacks against the 
giant are made at disadvantage, and it has resistance to 
radiant damage until the start of its next turn.
Confusing Memories
1–2
The creature does nothing.
3–4
The creature casts a random spell if it is capable of doing so, targeting a random creature it can see.  
It does nothing if it cannot cast spells. 
5–6
The creature makes a melee or ranged attack against a random creature it can see.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 182 ---
182
Book of Ebon Tides
River Spirit
A charming grey cobblestone bridge arches over a stream of 
black brackish water. Crawling up and over the sides of the 
bridge, tendrils of thick black water coalesce into a helmed 
warrior bearing a sword—which it points toward you, as if 
daring you to use the bridge. 
River spirits are fey guardians that defend bridges and 
other crossing points over bodies of water. 
Stubborn Guardians. River spirits are called into 
existence by the magic between water and shore, 
and they often appear quite suddenly, claiming a 
crossing point without any warning. Some river 
spirits allow travelers to pass over their bridges 
freely, but possessive or ornery spirits might bring 
all crossing to a complete standstill with challenges 
or demands. Since river spirits cannot truly die once 
they have bound themselves to a bridge, getting them 
to leave inevitably requires negotiation or powerful 
banishing magic.
Unwavering Loyalty. While river spirits are 
difficult to reason with, particularly patient or 
persuasive creatures can forge a friendly bond with 
them. River spirits may adjust their demands or 
even agree to guard different crossing points at the 
request of such a friend. Those who forge such a 
relationship gain their unwavering loyalty, and such 
a stout guardian may defend a location often long 
after the instigating creature has died. Fey bard often 
name and know of particular river spirits.
River Spirit
Medium Fey, Lawful Neutral
ARMOR CLASS 16 (natural armor) 
HIT POINTS 65 (10d8 + 20)
SPEED 30 ft., swim 60 ft.
STR		
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
17 (+3) 	
14 (+2)	
14 (+2)	
11 (+0)	
14 (+2)	
15 (+2)
SKILLS Intimidation +6, Perception +6, Stealth +6
DAMAGE RESISTANCES cold; bludgeoning, piercing, and 
slashing damage from nonmagical weapons that aren’t 
cold iron
CONDITION IMMUNITIES grappled, restrained
SENSES darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 16
LANGUAGES Common, Sylvan, Umbral
CHALLENGE 4 (1,100 XP) 	
PROFICIENCY BONUS +2
Bridge Defender. When the river spirit hits a creature with 
an opportunity attack, the target’s speed becomes 0 until 
the beginning of the target’s next turn. In addition, a river 
spirit can make an opportunity attack against a creature 
even if they take the Disengage action before leaving 
their reach.
Duty Bound. The river spirit cannot willingly travel more 
than 300 feet away from the bridge or other location 
to which they are bound. If the river spirit if forcibly 
taken beyond this range, they burst into a spray of mist 
and instantly reappear, standing atop their bridge. If a 
river spirit is slain, they disappear for 24 hours and then 
reappear atop their bridge with full hit points.
Stepping-stones. Wherever the river spirit steps, a solid 
stepping-stone made of water appears. A river spirit 
can move in this manner in any direction as if they were 
flying. The stepping-stones created by the river spirit 
cannot support the weight of any other creatures, just the 
river spirit. 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 183 ---
183
Monsters and NPCs
ACTIONS
Multiattack. The river spirit makes two Longsword attacks.
Longsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., 
one target. Hit: 12 (2d8 + 3) slashing damage.
Liquid Lash. Ranged Spell Attack: +5 to hit, range 30/120 
ft., one target. Hit: 9 (1d8 + 3) bludgeoning damage. If the 
target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 13 Dexterity 
saving throw or be pulled 25 feet closer to the river spirit.
Rose Golem
The creature stepping forward from the glazed clay 
pot is formed from thorny green vines twisted 
together in the shape of a humanoid torso. In its 
face, where eyes would be, are a set of perfect, 
lush roses. 
Rose golems were first crafted by the fey to watch 
over the verdant gardens that adorn their palaces.
Gentle Watchers. Rose golems serve as 
ornamental caretakers of the gardens they 
protect, but they are also particularly suited to 
deal humanely with intruders. These golems do 
not kill unwelcome visitors but rather lull them 
into enchanted sleep before delivering them to their 
masters. Such delicate enchantments allow for the 
removal of nosy mortals and other garden pests.
Prized Creations. The creation of a rose golem 
is as much a matter of artistry as it is of magic. 
Fey, gnomes, and elves with a talent for floral 
arrangement spend a great deal of time weaving, 
arranging, and pruning these constructs to beautify 
them. This level of effort leads to a wide variety of rose 
golems, who sport different floral varietals, patterns, 
and colors. It is not uncommon for fey nobility to 
parade their rose golems around during summer 
garden parties. 
Rose Golem
Large Construct, Unaligned
ARMOR CLASS 15 (natural armor) 
HIT POINTS 136 (16d10 + 48)
SPEED 30 ft.
STR		
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
18 (+4)	
8 (−1)	
16 (+3)	
5 (−3)	
10 (+0)	
7 (−2)
SKILLS Stealth +2
DAMAGE RESISTANCES bludgeoning, piercing, and 
slashing damage from nonmagical weapons that aren’t 
adamantine
DAMAGE IMMUNITIES poison, psychic
CONDITION IMMUNITIES charmed, exhaustion, 
frightened, paralyzed, petrified, poisoned
SENSES blindsight 60 ft. (blind beyond this radius), passive 
Perception 10
LANGUAGES understands the language of its creator, but 
can’t speak
CHALLENGE 6 (2,300 XP) 	
PROFICIENCY BONUS +3
False Appearance. While the golem remains motionless, it 
is indistinguishable from a hedge of rose bushes.
Immutable Form. The golem is immune to any spell or 
effect that would alter its form.
Magic Resistance. The golem has advantage on saving 
throws against spells and other magical effects.
Magic Weapons. The golem’s weapon attacks are magical.
ACTIONS
Multiattack. The golem makes two Slam attacks. 
Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 13 (2d8 + 4) bludgeoning damage. If this 
attack reduces a creature to 0 hit points, it is cursed with 
thorn’s kiss curse (see below).
Soporific Scent. The golem releases an enchanting scent. 
Each creature that breathes within 60 feet of the golem 
must succeed on a DC 11 Constitution saving throw or 
immediately fall unconscious and into a magical slumber. 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 184 ---
184
Book of Ebon Tides
This slumber lasts for 1 hour or until the sleeper takes 
damage. The rose golem must take a bonus action on 
its subsequent turn to continue emitting the scent. It can 
stop creating the smell at any time. The scent can no 
longer affect creatures if the golem is incapacitated. 
	
Each round the golem continues to emit the soporific 
scent makes the effect harder to resist. At the beginning 
of every round that the golem maintains the scent, the 
DC to resist its effects increases by 1 (DC 11 on the first 
round, DC 12 on the second round, DC 13 on the third 
round, and so on).
Thorn’s Kiss
Creatures affected by this curse are rendered 
unconscious as they fall into a deep, magical sleep. If 
the creature is at 0 hit points when it contracts this 
curse, it becomes stable and regains hit points as it 
normally would if it remains asleep for the duration 
of a long rest. A sleeping creature eventually suffers 
the effects of starvation as it normally would.
A creature remains cursed until the curse is 
broken by a remove curse or wish spell. Creatures 
that cannot be put to sleep by magical means are 
immune to this curse. 
Sable Elf
The elfin figure before you has plaited black hair and 
silver skin. She looks world-weary as she leans heavily on 
a staff of white wood topped with a mote of silver light. 
Everything about her feels faded and grey, as if washed out 
by the gloom of the world.
Sable elves have an innate affinity for arcane magic. 
Long ago, they were exiled from the dwindling 
elven empire, and now the survivors of this dying 
race wander the dark places of the world, searching 
for purpose.
Blood Affinity. Every sable elf is born with an 
affinity for magic. As a sable elf matures, it becomes 
clear which school of magic they are particularly 
suited to, and they gain the innate ability to cast 
spells from the associated school of magic. 
Fallen to Shadow. The few sable elves that remain 
possess the last vestiges of powerful elven magic 
that helped shape the early phases of the world, and 
they guard their secrets in isolation. Their powerful 
capabilities allow these ancient elves to survive 
in almost any climate, and the dark forests of the 
Shadow Realm house a handful of these wanderers. 
Sable Elf
Medium Humanoid (Sable Elf), Any Alignment
ARMOR CLASS 13 (leather) 
HIT POINTS 13 (3d8)
SPEED 30 ft.
STR		
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
10 (+0)	
14 (+2)	
10 (+0)	
14 (+2)	
11 (+0)	
12 (+1)
SKILLS Arcana +4, Perception +2, Stealth +4
SENSES darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 12
LANGUAGES Common, Elvish, Sylvan, Umbral
CHALLENGE 1/4 (50 XP) 	
PROFICIENCY BONUS +2
Fey Ancestry. The sable elf has advantage on saving 
throws against being charmed, and magic can’t put the 
sable elf to sleep.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 185 ---
185
Monsters and NPCs
ACTIONS
Multiattack. The sable elf makes two Shortsword attacks or 
two Longbow attacks. 
Shortsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., 
one target. Hit: 4 (1d6 + 2) piercing damage.
Longbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, ranged 
150/600 ft., one target. Hit: 5 (1d8 + 2) piercing damage.
Spellcasting. The sable elf casts one of the following spells, 
requiring no material components and using Intelligence 
as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 12): 
At will: acid splash
1/day each: fog cloud, sleet storm
Sable Elf Hierophant
A bald, silver-skinned elfin woman dressed in decorative 
robes made of layers of black, grey, and white gauze strikes 
an imposing figure before you. The top portion of her face is 
covered by a midnight-blue and silver mask that extends 
upward into an elaborate, feathered headdress. As her hands 
twist in an arcane gesture, you note the eyes tattooed upon 
her palms. 
Sable elves who are discontent to wander in disgrace 
often seek to join the cult of Hecate, the goddess who 
presides over witchcraft.
Arcane Advisors. Hecate only grants the powers 
of hierophant to the most cunning, powerful, and 
charismatic of her worshippers. This combination 
of requirements makes a hierophant an attractive 
advisor and religious guide to magically inclined 
societies. Sable elf hierophants are often seen among 
the royal courts of the shadow fey or in other elite 
social circles.
Witch Queen. Hecate is regarded as one of the 
oldest of the gods, and her worship dates back 
before the elves settled the mortal world. While her 
popularity has waxed and waned over the epochs, 
small covens of practitioners who praise her name 
have consistently existed across all geographic 
regions and cultures. 
Sable Elf Hierophant
Medium Humanoid (Sable Elf), Any Alignment
ARMOR CLASS 11 (14 with mage armor) 
HIT POINTS 90 (20d8)
SPEED 30 ft.
STR		
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
10 (+0)	
13 (+1)	
10 (+0)	
18 (+4)	
11 (+0)	
12 (+1)
SAVING THROWS Int +6, Wis +2
SKILLS Arcana +6, Perception +2, Stealth +3
SENSES darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 12
LANGUAGES Common, Elvish, Sylvan, Umbral
CHALLENGE 9 (5,000 XP) 	
PROFICIENCY BONUS +4
Fey Ancestry. The sable elf has advantage on saving 
throws against being charmed, and magic can’t put 
them to sleep.
ACTIONS
Multiattack. The sable elf makes three Spellburn attacks. 
Spellburn. Melee Spell Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 27 (5d10) force damage.
Spellcasting. The sable elf casts one of the following 
spells, using Intelligence as the spellcasting ability (spell 
save DC 14): 
At will: dancing lights, light, mage hand, 
prestidigitation
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 186 ---
186
Book of Ebon Tides
2/day each: dispel magic, lightning bolt, mage armor, 
web
1/day each: banishment, black tentacles, fire shield, 
hypnotic pattern, teleportation circle
Voice of Hecate (1/Day). Hecate speaks profane words of 
power through the hierophant. All creatures within 300 
feet of the sable elf must succeed on a DC 15 Charisma 
saving throw or be frightened for 1 minute. A frightened 
target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its 
turns, ending the effect on itself on a success.
BONUS ACTIONS
Witch Eye. The sable elf can cast detect magic without 
expending a spell slot.
Shadow Fey Bandit
A grey-skinned elfin man steps from behind a black tree. 
He has a dagger held in his teeth and is casually juggling 
two more daggers. The figure’s rough-looking traveling 
gear and leathers have clearly seen better days.
Shadow fey who live outside the courts find their skills 
are suited to waylaying travelers on the shadow roads. 
Criminal Outcasts. Shadow fey who dwell at court 
obsessively pursue both leisure and politics, so they 
find the idea of professional crime boorish at best. 
Shadow fey finding themselves relying on banditry 
are often forced to make difficult decisions due to 
banishment or desperation.
Strength In Numbers. The Shadow Realm is a 
dangerous place to wander alone, so shadow fey 
bandits often keep company with a wide array of 
creatures. It is not uncommon to find shadow fey 
bandits working with darakhul, monstrous fey, or in 
the service of hags.
Shadow Fey Bandit
Medium Humanoid (Elf), Lawful Evil
ARMOR CLASS 15 (studded leather) 
HIT POINTS 44 (8d8 + 8)
SPEED 30 ft.
STR		
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
10 (+0)	
16 (+3)	
12 (+1)	
12 (+1)	
14 (+2)	
13 (+1)
SKILLS Perception +4, Stealth +5
SENSES darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 14
LANGUAGES Common, Elvish, Umbral
CHALLENGE 1 (200 XP) 	
PROFICIENCY BONUS +2
Fey Ancestry. The shadow fey has advantage on saving 
throws against being charmed, and magic can’t put them 
to sleep.
Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the shadow fey has 
disadvantage on attack rolls and on Wisdom (Perception) 
checks that rely on sight.
Traveler in Darkness. The shadow fey has advantage on 
Intelligence (Arcana) checks made to know about shadow 
roads and shadow magic spells or items.
Shadow Fey Bandit  
Tactics and Nicknames
While shadow fey bandits are ruthless, they are often 
quite polite and dashing—the better to get their 
victims to comply with a robbery. They pretend to 
have confederates in the trees or claim their weapons 
are dosed with poison. Sometimes this is true, but 
more often, it is meant to provide a way for a victim 
to save face later. 
Shadow fey bandit nicknames tend toward the lurid 
and lordly: “The Duke of Daggers,” “The Laughing 
Princess,” and “Quickpenny Jack” are fairly well-known 
figures. Occasionally, a new bandit will take up the 
name of an older bandit who has retired.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 187 ---
187
Monsters and NPCs
ACTIONS
Shortsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., 
one target. Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) piercing damage. 
Shortbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, range 80/320 
ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) piercing damage. 
Shadow Cloak (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). 
While in dim light or darkness, the shadow fey can 
magically turn invisible until they attack, they cast a 
spell, or their concentration is broken, up to 1 hour (as if 
concentrating on a spell). Any equipment the shadow fey 
wears or carries is invisible with them. 
BONUS ACTIONS
Shadow Traveler (3/Day). While in shadows, dim light, or 
darkness, the shadow fey disappears into the darkness 
and reappears in an unoccupied space it can see within 
30 feet. A tendril of inky smoke appears at the origin and 
destination when it uses this trait. 
Shadow Goblin Chieftain
A large, purple-skinned goblin lumbers toward you. He is 
easily twice the width, height, and weight of any typical 
goblin, and he clutches a heavy, bejeweled axe in his 
ham‑sized fists. 
Shadow goblin chieftains rule goblin groups with a 
hearty mix of intimidation and natural charisma.
Court Players. Shadow goblins thrive in the courts 
of the shadow fey and in their own courts and have 
built a complicated social network that mirrors fey 
politics. Shadow goblin chieftains are drawn from the 
ranks of the largest, eldest, and most cunning goblins.
Shadow Hierarchy. In shadow goblin clans or 
families, shadow goblin chieftains are second in 
power only to the moonshadow catchers, who wield 
strange and potent magic. Frequently a chieftain and 
a moonshadow catcher will work together to claim 
leadership of wealth or resources. This common 
arrangement is called a moon-chief clan. Others are 
either chieftain clans or moon-led clans.
Shadow Goblin Chieftain
Small Humanoid (Goblinoid), Neutral Evil
ARMOR CLASS 14 (chain shirt)
HIT POINTS 52 (8d6 + 24)
SPEED 30 ft.
STR		
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
16 (+3)	
12 (+1)	
16 (+3)	
13 (+1)	
12 (+1)	
14 (+2)
SKILLS Deception +4, Insight +3, Intimidation +4, Sleight 
of Hand +3, Stealth +3
SENSES darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 11
LANGUAGES Common, Elvish, Goblin, Umbral
CHALLENGE 2 (450 XP) 	
PROFICIENCY BONUS +2
Shadow Camouflage. The shadow goblin has advantage 
on Dexterity (Stealth) checks made to hide in dim light or 
darkness.
Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the shadow 
goblin has disadvantage on attack rolls and on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks that rely on sight.
Unseelie Blessing. The shadow goblin has advantage on 
saving throws against being charmed, and magic can’t put 
them to sleep.
ACTIONS
Multiattack. The shadow goblin can make two Greataxe 
attacks. 
Greataxe. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 9 (1d12 + 3) slashing damage.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 188 ---
188
Book of Ebon Tides
Carving Knife. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to 
hit, reach 5 ft. or range 20/60, one target. Hit: 5 (1d4 + 3) 
piercing damage.
BONUS ACTIONS
Stink Eye. The shadow goblin targets one creature they 
can see within 30 feet. If the target can hear and see the 
shadow goblin, it must succeed on a DC 12 Charisma 
saving throw or have disadvantage on ability checks, 
attack rolls, and saving throws until the start of the 
shadow goblin’s next turn.
REACTIONS
Minion Shield. When the shadow goblin is the target of an 
attack by a creature they can see, the shadow goblin can 
choose an ally within 5 feet of them. The two swap places, 
and the ally becomes the target of the attack instead.
Shadow Goblin Scribe
The boney, purple-skinned goblin with bright-yellow eyes 
pushes a pair of gold spectacles farther up on her long nose. 
She wears a flowy grey shirt stained with black blotches of 
ink. And she looks annoyed by the sudden interruption. 
Shadow goblin scribes are the notaries and executors 
of deals brokered between shadow fey and mortals.
Contracts, Oaths & Consequences. Shadow fey 
nobility possess notoriously short attention spans 
and have come to rely on shadow goblin scribes 
to record and enforce the day-to-day drudgeries 
associated with complex contracts. After a fey accepts 
a bargain, they call upon the scribe to work out the 
exact terms, catalog them, and occasionally deal 
with those desperate enough to attempt to break a 
contract (see shadow goblin chieftain above for 
the consequences of goblins breaking some such 
contracts and oaths).
Limited Spellcasting. Shadow fey are careful not 
to teach their goblin servitors too much magic, but 
scribes learn a small selection of practical spells that 
allow them to deal with testy mortals. Scribes are 
often the messengers of bad news, and their magic 
allows them to subdue aggressive individuals long 
enough to accomplish their business.
Shadow Goblin Scribe
Small Humanoid (Goblinoid), Any Non-Chaotic 
Alignment 
ARMOR CLASS 14 (leather) 
HIT POINTS 21 (6d6)
SPEED 30 ft.
STR		
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
9 (−1)	
16 (+3)	
11 (+0)	
17 (+3)	
12 (+1)	
12 (+1)
SKILLS Arcana +5, History +5, Stealth +5
SENSES darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 11
Goblin Clan Politics
Shadow goblin clans are very tight-knit and loyal to 
their members. Even an evil shadow goblin chieftain 
will hesitate to betray or slight their direct kinfolk and 
families. Instead, their rage, trickery, and betrayals are 
directed at everyone not a member of the clan. The 
only exception is when a shadow goblin has sworn to 
accomplish some task (or just as often, not to undertake 
some foolish venture) and then breaks their word. 
“Broken words, broken fingers” refers to the chieftain’s 
custom of smashing the hands or toes of those who 
cross the clan’s interests.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 189 ---
189
Monsters and NPCs
LANGUAGES Common, Elvish, Goblin, Umbral
CHALLENGE 1 (200 XP) 	
PROFICIENCY BONUS +2
Shadow Camouflage. The shadow goblin has advantage 
on Dexterity (Stealth) checks made to hide in dim light or 
darkness.
Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the shadow 
goblin has disadvantage on attack rolls and on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks that rely on sight.
Unseelie Blessing. The shadow goblin has advantage on 
saving throws against being charmed, and magic can’t put 
them to sleep.
ACTIONS
Quill. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 
ft. or range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 5 (1d4 + 3) piercing 
damage.
Notarize (1/Day). The shadow goblin chooses one 
creature they can see within 60 feet and mystically marks 
it for 24 hours. While a creature is marked in this way, it 
rolls with disadvantage against any saving throws made to 
resist the shadow goblin’s spells.
Spellcasting. The shadow goblin casts one of the following 
spells, requiring no material components and using 
Intelligence as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 13): 
At will: acid splash, mage hand
2/day each: command, hold person, illusory script
1/day: suggestion
Stink Eye. The shadow goblin targets one creature they 
can see within 30 feet. If the target can hear and see the 
scribe, it must succeed on a DC 11 Charisma saving throw 
or have disadvantage on the next ability check, attack roll, 
or saving throw it makes before the start of the scribe’s 
next turn 
BONUS ACTIONS
Nimble Escape. The shadow goblin takes 
the Disengage or Hide action.
REACTIONS
Vengeful Jinx. When the shadow goblin is hit by an attack 
from a creature they can see, they can curse the attacker. 
The target has disadvantage on attack rolls until the end 
of its next turn.
Shadowspider Swarm
This mass of fist-sized black spiders flows like a creeping 
mist. While they move like a shadow across the ground, they 
do not cast one themselves.
Born of Darkness. Shadowspiders are not alive 
in the traditional sense. A shadowspider swarm 
is a creeping mass of spiders formed out of the 
primordial darkness of the Shadow Realm itself. 
They are born in the oldest and darkest regions of 
the Shadow Realm, often in areas where the planar 
barriers have grown thin. Unable to survive outside 
of its swarm, a shadowspider separated from its 
swarm evaporates in a greasy swirl of black smoke.
Affinity with Undeath. While shadowspider 
swarms form in places where two planes are close, 
they are particularly common in regions where the 
Shadow Realm is coterminous with the Plane of 
Undeath. Because of this, shadowspider swarms are 
often found alongside the undead that sometimes 
spill forth in these regions.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 190 ---
190
Book of Ebon Tides
Insatiable Hunger for Warmth. Shadowspider 
swarms are always hungry, especially for the warmth 
of mortals. When a shadowspider swarm senses the 
warmth of a living creature, it immediately moves to 
consume the creature.
SHADOWSPIDER SWARM
Large Swarm of Tiny Monstrosities, Neutral Evil
Armor Class 15 (natural armor)
Hit Points 102 (12d10 + 36)
Speed 30 ft., climb 30 ft.
STR		
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
14 (+2) 	
18 (+4) 	
16 (+3) 	
8 (−1) 	
10 (+0) 	
5 (−3)
DAMAGE RESISTANCES bludgeoning, piercing, slashing
DAMAGE IMMUNITIES cold, necrotic
CONDITION IMMUNITIES charmed, frightened, grappled, 
paralyzed, petrified, prone, restrained, stunned
SENSES darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 10
LANGUAGES —
CHALLENGE 5 (1,800 XP)	
PROFICIENCY BONUS +3
Darkwalkers. While in darkness, the shadowspider swarm 
is invisible.
Sense Life. The shadowspider swarm can pinpoint the 
location of a warm, living creature within 30 feet.
Swarm. The shadowspider swarm can occupy another 
creature’s space and vice versa, and the swarm can 
move through any opening large enough for a 
Tiny shadowspider. The swarm can’t regain 
hit points or gain temporary hit points.
Wasting Wave. A creature that enters the 
swarm’s space for the first time on a turn or ends its 
turn in the swarm’s space must succeed on a DC 14 
Constitution saving throw or gain one level of shadow 
corruption (see Midgard Worldbook).
ACTIONS
Shadow Bites. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 0 ft., 
one creature in the swarm’s space. Hit: 14 (4d6) piercing 
damage, or 7 (2d6) piercing damage if the swarm has half 
of its hit points or fewer. The target must make a DC 14 
Constitution saving throw, taking 9 (2d8) necrotic damage 
and 9 (2d8) cold damage on a failed save or half as much 
damage on a successful one.
Umbral Tailor
An elderly woman with wispy strands of grey hair is in the 
process of pulling up a black needle from a stitch made on the 
cloth that sits on the table before her. The black cloth shifts 
strangely as if something moves just beneath it.
Blessed by the fey of the Shadow Realm, umbral 
tailors are master crafters who repair far more than 
mundane clothing.
Niche Profession. Umbral tailors can only be 
found in the Shadow Realm, where their gifts for 
healing and repairing damage caused by corruption 
are most needed. For whatever reason, umbral 
tailors’ soul stitching magic only works in the 
Shadow Realm.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 191 ---
191
Monsters and NPCs
Sacred Needle  
of Charun’s Tailor 
Priests of the river god Charun say that they took a 
particularly skilled umbral tailor across the Styx into 
the afterlife—and were paid their fare with a single 
bone‑white needle imbued with healing power. 
This needle has become an object of veneration in 
Charun’s shrine at the Court of the Golden Oak.
Soul Stitching. Umbral tailors can see the souls 
of living creatures (if they possess one), and this 
ability allows them to identify psychic and physical 
ailments affecting their clients. Much like a mundane 
tailor, umbral tailors can stitch together torn souls, 
use shadow ephemera to patch damaged areas, and 
occasionally enhance a healthy soul.
Healing Hearts. Bards and others sometimes 
tell tales of the “Umbral Tailor of Corremel,” who 
is said to have been able to stitch together a broken 
heart, to mend the grief of a widow or widower, or to 
patch together the shredded soul of parents whose 
child has died. Few umbral tailors claim any such 
extraordinary level of skill, but the stories persist, 
and some tailors take advantage of those who seek 
hope and healing.
Umbral Tailor
Medium Humanoid (Any Race), Any Neutral Alignment
ARMOR CLASS 15 (studded leather)
HIT POINTS 44 (8d8 + 8)
SPEED 30 ft.
STR		
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
10 (+0) 	
16 (+3)	
12 (+1)	
13 (+1)	
16 (+3)	
15 (+2)
SAVING THROWS Wis +5, Cha +4
SKILLS Arcana +3, Insight +5, Sleight of Hand +5
SENSES darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 13
LANGUAGES Common, Umbral
CHALLENGE 1 (200 XP) 	
PROFICIENCY BONUS +2
Shadow Patch. The umbral tailor can conduct a ritual to 
undo the effects of shadow corruption. This ritual takes 1 
hour to complete, uses 200 gp worth of components, and 
must be performed on a willing subject. 
Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the umbral 
tailor has disadvantage on attack rolls and on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks that rely on sight.
Unseelie Blessing. The umbral tailor has advantage on 
saving throws against being charmed, and magic can’t 
put them to sleep.
ACTIONS
Bone Needle. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., 
one target. Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) piercing damage. If the target 
is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 10 Constitution 
saving throw or be paralyzed for 1 minute. The target can 
repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, 
ending the effect on itself on a success
Soul Read. The umbral tailor can focus their mind on any 
one creature they can see within 30 feet. The umbral 
tailor learns the creature’s current emotional state and 
whether the creature is diseased, corrupted, cursed, or 
under the effects of a spell. If the creature does not have 
a soul, it is unaffected.
Spellcasting. The umbral tailor casts one of the following 
spells, requiring no material components and using 
Wisdom as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 13): 
At will: guidance, mending, spare the dying
3/day each: lesser restoration, remove curse
1/day each: greater restoration (casting time requires 
target to take a long rest)
Wandering Pond
A beautifully manicured garden pond sits before you, 
complete with a white marble bench. The surface of its 
crystal‑blue water ripples gently, which seems odd, because  
there is no wind.
Wandering ponds are a curious variety of ooze that 
possess a modicum of fey magic.
Fairy Made. Wandering ponds are suspected of 
having originated in the fey realms where schemes 
to trap and humiliate wanderers are widespread 
pastimes. Certainly, the pond’s unique ability to 
weave a glamour over itself indicates these creatures 
are no ordinary ooze.
Mysterious Motives. Wandering ponds always 
operate in the same way. A pond disguises itself 
to attract prey and then pulls them in. Once 
unconscious, the victim is teleported to a random 
body of water within the area. It is unclear what 
benefit the pond receives from such a scheme, but it 
is regarded as further evidence of fey involvement.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 192 ---
192
Book of Ebon Tides
Wandering Pond
Large Ooze, Chaotic Neutral
ARMOR CLASS 7
HIT POINTS 85 (10d10 + 30)
SPEED 20 ft., swim 20 ft.
STR		
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
16 (+3)	
5 (−3)	
16 (+3)	
1 (−5)	
6 (−2)	
1 (−5)
DAMAGE IMMUNITIES acid, cold, lightning, slashing
CONDITION IMMUNITIES blinded, charmed, deafened, 
exhaustion, frightened, prone
SENSES blindsight 60 ft. (blind beyond this radius), passive 
Perception 8
LANGUAGES —
CHALLENGE 5 (1,800 XP) 	
PROFICIENCY BONUS +3
Dowsing Sense. The wandering pond instinctively knows 
the direction, size, and location of all bodies of water 
containing at least 30 gallons of liquid within 1 mile of its 
location. 
Faerie Glamour. While the wandering pond remains 
motionless, it is covered in an illusory glamour that 
makes it appear like a charming pond. The pond seems 
completely real, including sounds and smells appropriate 
to the depicted pond. Physical interaction with the pond 
reveals its nature, and the creatures who can see through 
illusion perceive the ooze for what it really is. 
ACTIONS
Multiattack. The wandering pond makes two Pseudopod 
attacks. 
Pseudopod. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., 
one target. Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) bludgeoning damage plus 18 
(4d8) acid damage, and the target is grappled (escape DC 
13).
Vortex. The wandering pond engulfs a Medium or smaller 
creature it is grappling. An engulfed creature is blinded 
and restrained, it has total cover against attacks and 
other effects outside the pond, and it takes 10 (3d6) acid 
damage at the start of each of the wandering pond’s 
turns. A creature reduced to 0 hit points in this way 
becomes stable and is instantly teleported to a random 
body of water within 1 mile of the wandering pond. 
	
The wandering pond can only have one creature 
swallowed at a time. While the pond isn’t incapacitated, 
it can regurgitate the creature at any time (no action 
required) in a space within 5 feet of it. The creature exits 
prone. If the wandering pond dies, it likewise regurgitates 
a swallowed creature. 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 193 ---
Book of Ebon Tides
Magic Items and Trickery
Magic Items and Trickery
The Shadow Realm is known as a place where magic 
items, magic tricks, and the peculiar memory philters 
and illusion seeds are common. Other magical 
items found in the Shadow Realm are focused on 
navigating or surviving the dangers of the plane or are 
derived from the traditions of its goblin, fey, bearfolk, 
and human inhabitants.
1010
Random Tables  
for Magic Items
Items marked with an asterisk (*) are from the core 
rules and are included here because they are found 
often in the Shadow Realm.
TABLE 10–1: APPAREL
d20
Item
1
Bearskin cloak 
2
Boots of dancing
3
Boots of elvenkind*
5
Boots of shadow walking
4
Boots of striding and springing*
6
Cloak of elvenkind*
7
Cloak of splendor
8
Cloak of the bat*
9
Cloak of the raven
10
Earrings of eclipse
11
Emerald goblet
12
Gloves of the walking shade
13
Glowstone helmet
14
Sealskin cloak
15
Styx boots
16
Trickster’s boots
17
Whispering cloak
18
Winged boots*
19
Wolfskin cloak
20
GM’s choice from the list
d20
Item
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 194 ---
194
Book of Ebon Tides
TABLE 10–2: ARMOR 
d20
Item
1
Armor of the Black River
2
Armor of the white rose
3
Ebony beetle armor
4
Elven chain*
5
Ghost armor
6
Glamoured studded leather*
7
Midnight armor
8
Mithral armor*
9
Moonbeam chain mail 
10
Moonstone banded armor
11
Rattling armor
12
Road warden shield
13
Serpent hide
14
Shield of blinding 
15
Shield of crows
16
Shield of dawn’s herald
17
Shield of otters
18
Shield of swans
19
Umbral armor
20
GM’s choice from the list
TABLE 10–3: ILLUSION SEEDS
d20
Item
1
Ale seed
2
Bonfire seed
3
Bridge seed
4
Dragon seed
5
Forest seed
6
Knightly seed
7
Messenger owl seed
8
Orchard seed
9
Rain and thunder seed 
10
Road seed
11
Stallion seed
12
Tavern seed
13–20
GM’s choice from this list
TABLE 10–4: MEMORY PHILTERS
d10
Item
1
Boundless joy
2
Deep despair
3
Enchanted fortune
4
Innocence
5
Loving kindness
6
Lust
7
Mercy
8
Righteous anger
9
Waking dreams
10
GM’s choice from this list
TABLE 10–5: POTIONS, SCROLLS,  
AND WONDROUS ITEMS
d20
Item
1
Apparel (see Table 10–1)
2
Bag of beans*
3
Book of Ebon Tides
4
Collapsible mountain
5
Crown of infinite midnight
6
Deck of illusions*
7
Figurine of wondrous power (any)*
8
Illusion seed (see Table 10–3)
9
Hecate’s Lantern
10
Instant door
11
Labyrinth rope
12
Memory philter (see Table 10–4)
13
Moonseeker’s lantern of safe returns
14
Pipes of haunting*
15
Shadow portal scroll
16
Unerring dowsing rod
17
Wine of the starry void
18
Wine of the summer court
19
Wine of the winter court
20
GM’s choice from this list
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 195 ---
195
Magic Items and Trickery
TABLE 10–6: RINGS, RODS, STAVES, AND WANDS
d20
Item
1
Ring of dancing
2
Ring of daylight
3
Ring of invisibility*
4
Ring of mind shielding*
5
Ring of shooting stars*
6
Ring of the ghouls
7
Ring of winter’s kiss
8
Rod of alertness*
9
Staff of charming*
10
Staff of frost*
11
Staff of swarming insects*
12
Staff of withering*
13
Staff of radiance
14
Staff of the void
15
Wand of binding*
16
Wand of fear*
17
Wand of shadows
18
Wand of tides
19
Wand of wonder*
20
GM’s choice from the list
TABLE 10–7: WEAPONS
d20
Item
1
Blade of grass
2
Dagger of venom*
3
Dancing sword*
4
Fey blade
5
Frostglow weapon
6
Hecate’s dagger
7
Lunar lance
8
Mace of terror*
9
Mooncatcher’s net
10
Moonsteel weapon
11
Nine lives stealer*
12
Oathbow*
13
Quickstep weapon
14
Scepter weapon
15
Scimitar of speed*
16
Sword of sharpness*
17
Sword of wounding*
18
Vicious weapon*
19
Witchlight scimitar
20
GM’s choice from the list
Apparel
Magical apparel in the Shadow Realm focuses on 
making a powerful impression and frequently on 
shapeshifting. These items are described here.
Bearskin Cloak
Wondrous Item, Rare (Requires Attunement by a 
Barbarian, Druid, or Ranger)
While wearing this cloak, as an action, you can 
assume the form of a brown bear, gaining its attacks 
(including multiattack), AC, and speed (including 
climb speed). You retain your own ability scores, hit 
points, and saving throws.
Boots of Dancing
Wondrous Item, Uncommon
These boots make your every movement smoother, 
stealthier, and more elegant. You can leap up to 10 
feet vertically without effort, and land safely, taking 
no damage, from falls up to 30 feet—merely landing 
in a rather dramatic manner.
When combined with a ring of dancing, you gain 
advantage on all Charisma ability checks.
Boots of Shadow Walking
Wondrous Item, Uncommon
Your movement is enhanced on shadow roads and 
across long distances. Your travel pace is double the 
normal rate, though your speed in combat is not 
affected.
Cloak of Splendor
Wondrous Item, Uncommon (Requires Attunement)
This cloak is made of fine ermine and often 
embellished with fasteners or trimmed with gold or 
embroidered orange candles, suns, or similar symbols. 
While wearing this cloak, you can grip it’s  edges and 
generate a sunbeam spell once per day. If you release 
the cloak’s edges from your grasp, the light fades, and 
you cannot generate further lines of radiance.
In addition, while wearing the cloak, you can use 
your action to generate a set of 10 magical lights once 
per day, each as bright as a lantern and shedding full 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 196 ---
196
Book of Ebon Tides
sunlight in a 20-foot radius. As a bonus action on 
your turn, you can move any or all the lights up to 60 
feet to a new spot within range. A light must be within 
30 feet of another light created by this cloak, and a 
light winks out if travels more than 100 feet from you.
Cloak of the Raven
Wondrous Item, Uncommon
While wearing this cloak, you have advantage on 
Wisdom (Perception) checks. In an area of dim light 
or sunlight, you can grip the edges of the cloak with 
both hands and use it to fly at a speed of 30 feet. If 
you release the cloak’s edges from your grasp while 
flying in this way or if you are no longer in dim light or 
sunlight, you lose this flying speed.
While wearing the cloak in an area of dim light or 
sunlight, you can use your action to cast daylight as a 
readied action. You may then fly or carry the daylight 
spell into any area of darkness. The cloak can’t be used 
this way again until the next dawn.
Earrings of Eclipse
Wondrous Item, Uncommon
These two cubes of smoky quartz are mounted on 
simple, silver posts. While you are wearing these 
earrings, you can take the Hide action while you are 
motionless in an area of dim light or darkness even 
when a creature can see you or when you have nothing 
to obscure you from the sight of a creature that can 
see you. If you are in darkness when you use the Hide 
action, you have advantage on the Dexterity (Stealth) 
check. If you move, attack, cast a spell, or do anything 
other than remain motionless, you are no longer 
hidden and can be detected normally. 
Emerald Goblet
Wondrous Item, Uncommon
This goblet’s rim and stem are made of silver. The 
cup of the goblet is a single enormous chunk of 
emerald that allows a view of the liquid within. When 
filled with any liquid, it becomes a shining green 
vessel filled with a green potion. Any creature that 
drinks from the goblet is protected against shadow 
corruption for a day.
The protection grants several additional benefits: 
you have advantage on Wisdom (Survival) checks 
used to gather food within the Shadow Realm, and 
you gain darkvision to 30 feet or extend your existing 
dark vision by 30 feet.
Gloves of the Walking Shade
Wondrous Item, Very Rare (Requires Attunement)
Each glove is comprised of three black-ivory rings 
(fitting the thumb, middle finger, and pinkie) which 
are connected to each other. The rings are then 
connected to an intricately engraved onyx wrist cuff 
by a web of fine platinum chains and tiny diamonds.
While wearing these gloves, you gain the following:
•	 You have resistance to necrotic damage. 
•	 You can spend one Hit Die during a short rest 
to remove one level of exhaustion instead of 
regaining hit points. 
•	 You can use an action to become a living shadow. 
While you are a living shadow, you can move 
through a space as narrow as 1 inch wide without 
squeezing, and you can take the Hide action 
as a bonus action while you are in dim light or 
darkness. Once used, this property of the gloves 
can’t be used again until the next nightfall.
Glowstone Helmet
Wondrous Item, Uncommon
Glowstone helmets are usually of gnomish 
manufacture. While wearing this helm, you can use 
an action to cast a particular cantrip associated with 
that helmet (often dancing lights, light, mending, or 
sometimes produce flame). When combined with a 
frostglow weapon or a find the path spell, this helmet 
allows you to sense the direction and distance to 
the nearest ley line, shadow road, radiant well, and 
similar arcane landmarks. 
Sealskin Cloak
Wondrous Item, Uncommon (Requires Attunement)
While wearing this cloak, as an action, you can 
assume the form of a seal, gaining its bite attack  
(1d8 piercing damage), AC 12, and 40 ft swim speed. 
You retain your own ability scores, hit points, and 
saving throws.
Styx Boots
Wondrous item, rare
These boots are usually made of heavy, sturdy 
leather—perhaps it’s demon hide or some other 
planar creature’s hide. While wearing these boots, you 
can walk over any body of water as if it were normal 
terrain, and you can slide or skate over relatively calm 
waters, snow, ice, sand, magma, or other smooth 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 197 ---
197
Magic Items and Trickery
surfaces at double your normal walking speed. If the 
snow or ice is on a hill, you move at triple your normal 
walking speed. You can still use the Dash action 
normally as well.
When combined with the armor of the Black River, 
the Styx boots permit you to use any branch of the River 
Styx and other planar waterways as a form of shadow 
road. Once per week, you can walk on such a planar 
waterway for 8 hours and arrive at any other plane of 
your choosing.
Trickster’s Boots
Wondrous Item, Common
These boots are usually shaped with a bright leather: 
red, orange, or purple. While wearing these boots, you 
can leave the tracks of any other creature in the snow, 
as you choose, including animal, monster, or even 
dragon tracks. You can also leave tracks resembling 
footgear you have seen or worn in the past. Attempts 
to follow these tracks are made normally.
Whispering Cloak 
Wondrous Item, Rare (Requires Attunement) 
This cloak is made of black, brown, and white bat pelts 
sewn together. While wearing it, you have blindsight 
out to a range of 60 feet. While wearing this cloak 
with its hood up, you transform into a creature of pure 
shadow. While in shadow form, your AC increases by 
2, you have advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks, 
and you can move through a space as narrow as 1 inch 
wide without squeezing. You can cast spells normally 
while in shadow form, but you can’t make ranged or 
melee attacks with nonmagical weapons. In addition, 
you can’t pick up objects, and you can’t give objects 
you are wearing or carrying to others. 
This effect lasts up to 1 hour. Deduct time spent in 
shadow form in increments of 1 minute from the total 
time. After it has been used for 1 hour, the cloak can’t 
be used in this way again until the next dusk when 
its time limit resets. Pulling the hood up or down 
requires an action.
Wolfskin Cloak 
Wondrous Item, Uncommon (Requires Attunement)
While wearing this cloak, as an action, you can assume 
the form of a dire wolf, gaining its bite attack, speed, 
and AC. You also gain its Keen Hearing and Smell 
trait. You retain your own ability scores, hit points, and 
saving throws.
Armor 
Some items of magical armor and weaponry were 
either invented in the Shadow Realm or are found 
there more commonly than elsewhere.
Armor of the Black River 
Armor (Heavy), Rare (Requires Attunement)
While wearing this armor, you gain a +1 bonus to 
AC, and you are immune to shadow corruption (see 
Chapter 5) and void taint (see Midgard Worldbook) 
while you wear this armor. Additionally, you can use 
an action to assume a ghostly form for 10 minutes 
(together with up to ten creatures you touch), or until 
you are no longer wearing the armor, gaining a flying 
speed of 200 feet. You cannot take actions other than 
movement while in this form. Once this special action 
is used, it can’t be used again until the next dawn.
When combined with the Styx boots, the armor of 
the Black River permits you to use any branch of the 
River Styx or other planar waterways as a shadow 
road. Once per week, you can walk on such a planar 
waterway for 8 hours and arrive at any other plane of 
your choosing.
Armor of the White Rose 
Armor (Heavy), Very Rare (Requires Attunement)
You are immune to necrotic and cold damage and 
vulnerable to fire and radiant damage while you 
wear this armor. Additionally, you are imbued with 
soul-devouring energy. When you hit with a melee 
attack, the target takes an extra 3d6 necrotic damage, 
and you regain 3d6 hit points. If you gain hit points 
above your maximum, you immediately gain a level 
of exhaustion, and the soul-devouring power of the 
armor ends until the next dawn.
Ebony Beetle Armor
Armor (Medium or Heavy), Rare 
This glossy black armor is made from enchanted 
carrion beetle chitin by the darakhul. If the armor 
normally imposes disadvantage on Dexterity (Stealth) 
checks or has a Strength requirement, the ebony 
beetle version of the armor doesn’t. While wearing the 
armor, you are immune to slashing damage. It is half 
the weight of comparable metal armor.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 198 ---
198
Book of Ebon Tides
Ghost Armor
Armor (Light or Medium), Rare (Requires Attunement)
While wearing this armor, you can speak its 
command word as a bonus action to move 
incorporeally for 1 round. You can move through 
other creatures and objects as if they were difficult 
terrain. You take 5 (1d10) force damage if you end 
your turn inside an object. You can use this ability a 
number of rounds per day equal to your level.
Midnight Armor
Armor (Light or Hide), Very Rare (Requires Attunement)
Spun of pure shadow and invisible in sunlight, armor 
of this type is typically of shadow goblin or derro 
construction. While wearing it, you gain a +1 bonus to 
AC and resistance to radiant damage. In addition, you 
have advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks.
Moonbeam Chain Mail
Armor (Chain Mail), Very Rare  
(Requires Attunement by a Druid)
This armor is made of woven moonlight by the 
bearfolk. It weighs only 5 pounds and always glows 
with a gentle radiance. Its glow cannot be hidden by 
tunics or cloaks. While wearing this armor, you gain 
a +1 bonus to AC, increasing to +2 under moonlight. 
In addition, you gain an additional use of Wild Shape. 
You are considered proficient with this armor even if 
you lack proficiency with medium armor.
Moonstone Banded Armor
Armor (Heavy), Rare (Requires Attunement)
This armor is made of woven moonlight by the 
shadow goblins. It weighs half as much as comparable 
armor and always glows with a gentle radiance. While 
wearing this armor, you have advantage on saving 
throws against spells and effects involving radiant, 
cold, or necrotic damage. 
Rattling Armor
Armor (Splint), Rare (Requires Attunement)
This armor is made of humanoid bones and 
enchanted with glamours of terror. While wearing 
this armor, you have resistance to necrotic damage. In 
addition, you can use an action to cast the fear spell. 
This property of the armor can’t be used again until 
the next dawn.
Road Warden Shield
Armor (Shield), Common
While holding this shield, you can speak its command 
word to seal a portion of a shadow road, turning 
it into a looping path. Once that occurs, creatures 
walking the path always return to their starting point 
after 120 feet of movement. To end the looping effect, 
a creature on the looping path must step off the path. 
The effect also ends if the shield is destroyed or you 
speak the command word while holding the shield. 
Serpent Hide
Armor (Hide), Rare (Requires Attunement)
While wearing this armor, you can speak its 
command word to take on the form of a giant 
constrictor snake. You retain this form as long as 
you like, but once you return to your normal form, 
you cannot use it again until after a long rest. 
Shield of Blinding
Armor (Shield), Uncommon 
While holding this shield, you can speak its command 
word and choose one creature that you can see within 
range to make a Constitution saving throw. If it fails, 
the target is blinded for 1 minute. At the end of each 
of its turns, the target can make a new saving throw to 
regain their sight.
Shield of Crows
Armor (Shield), Common
While holding this shield, you can speak its command 
work to summon a swarm of ravens. For up to 12 
hours, these birds will scout terrain, warn you of 
enemies, and keep watch while you sleep. They do not 
engage in combat on your behalf and flee if attacked 
or threatened. After the duration, the shield cannot 
summon another swarm until after you have left a 
loaf of bread, bits of dried meat, or similar food on 
the shield during a short rest.
In addition, while holding the shield, you gain the 
ability to speak with crows and other corvids. 
Shield of Dawn’s Herald
Armor (Shield), Very Rare (Requires Attunement)
The shield has 3 charges, and it regains 1d3 expended 
charges daily at dawn. While holding this shield, you 
can expend 1 charge to create a beam of light 10 feet 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 199 ---
199
Magic Items and Trickery
wide and 120 feet long to illuminate everything in 
front of the shield. All creatures in this beam of light 
appear in their true form: shapeshifters appear as 
their unshifted forms, illusions fail to disguise their 
users, and so on. You can maintain this beam for up to 
1 minute, requiring concentration. 
Additionally, undead in the beam take 1d6 radiant 
damage each round they remain in the beam.
Shield of Otters
Armor (Shield), Uncommon
While holding this shield, you can speak its 
command word to summon a pair of otters (use giant 
weasel statistics). For up to 12 hours, these aquatic 
mammals will scout aquatic and riparian terrain, 
warn you of enemies, and keep watch while you sleep. 
They do not engage in combat on your behalf and 
flee if attacked or threatened. After the duration, the 
shield cannot summon another otter pair until after 
you have left fish, shellfish, or similar food on the 
shield during a short rest.
In addition, while holding the shield, you gain 
the ability to speak with otters and other aquatic 
mammals, such seals. 
Shield of Swans 
Armor (Shield), Common
This shield has 3 charges, and it regains 1d3 expended 
charges daily at dawn. When you speak its command 
word and expend one charge, you gain a fly speed 
of 60 feet for 1d4 rounds (and you know when this 
ends). 
In addition, while holding this shield you can speak 
with swans and other aquatic birds.
Umbral Armor
Armor (Light, Medium, Or Heavy), Rare
This armor is a dull gray, marked with flecks of gold 
or silver and sometimes filigreed in luminous purple 
swirls. While wearing this armor, you emit a trail of 
shadows that obscures your passage, wiping away 
tracks and hiding your movement. All attempts to 
track you are made with disadvantage, and all ranged 
attacks against you are also made with disadvantage. 
However, bright light (such as from sunlight or the 
daylight spell) negates both effects and makes this 
armor easy to see. In these conditions, all attacks 
made against you gain a +2 to the attack roll.
Illusion Seeds
Illusion seeds are wondrous items first created in the 
Shadow Realm and reliant on a supply of shadow 
matter to power their effects—each such seed 
generates an illusion and those illusions can take 
quite powerful forms. While illusion seeds are fairly 
permanent in the Shadow Realm, where there is 
shadow matter to empower and sustain the illusions, 
they are notably less permanent anywhere else. In 
the mortal world and on other planes, the effects of 
illusion seeds last for 2d12 hours and then crumble 
away in a small burst of glittering light and shadows.
To use an illusion seed, its owner merely needs to 
throw it 5 feet or more from themselves (to avoid being 
caught in the magical effect). Once expended, their 
effects are permanent (in the Shadow Realm), though 
they can be unraveled using dispel magic (DC 13). 
Ale Seed
Wondrous Item, Common
When thrown, this illusion seed turns into a small cask 
of wholesome ale, roughly 4 gallons worth, together 
with 4 tankards. It is often used by shadow goblins or 
porters to avoid carrying heavy, full-sized casks.
Bonfire Seed
Wondrous Item, Common
When thrown, this illusion seed turns into a roaring 
bonfire about 5 feet across, complete with large and 
small timbers and hot coals. If thrown into a space 
where a creature is standing, you must make a ranged 
attack. If the attack misses, the creature knocks the 
seed into any neighboring space. If it hits, the bonfire 
does 2d6 fire damage to any creature standing in it at 
the start of its turn. The bonfire burns out normally in 
1d4 hours, depending on rain and other conditions.
Bridge Seed
Wondrous Item, Uncommon
When thrown, this illusion seed turns into a 
wooden bridge with stone piers, covering a stream, 
moat, chasm, gorge, or river up to 40 feet across. If 
thrown into a space where a creature is standing or 
swimming, that creature finds itself standing on the 
bridge decking without suffering any ill effect. The 
bridge can be undermined by flooding or burnt by fire 
normally. Otherwise, it remains standing for decades, 
slowing decaying.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 200 ---
200
Book of Ebon Tides
Forest Seed
Wondrous Item, Rare
When thrown, this illusion seed turns into a 
forest, depending on your learning and natural 
understanding. Make either an Intelligence (Nature) 
or Wisdom (Survival) check and see the table below.
Check
Result
10 or 
less
A small copse of leafy trees about 50 feet 
across appears. A single bird nests there.
11–15
A grove of pine trees about 500 feet across 
appears with a single path through it that 
only the user knows or sees. Only a few 
birds and insects inhabit it.
16–19
A large forest of mixed types of trees about 
1 mile across appears with several hollow 
trees, small ponds, streams, and 1d6 + 1 
paths through it that only the user knows or 
sees. Many birds, small woodland animals, 
and deer or boar live in it.
20+
A vast and varied woodland more than 
50 miles across appears. It contains rich 
wildlife appropriate to the climate. A single 
treant lives in this forest and is friendly to 
the owner of the seed.
Dragon Seed
Wondrous Item, Very Rare
When thrown, this illusion seed turns into a dragon 
of some kind, though the exact type is known only to 
its creator. Roll on the table below.
d20
Dragon Type
Charisma  
DC
1–2
Lantern dragonette  
(see Tome of Beasts)
8
3–4
Wind dragon wyrmling  
(see Tome of Beasts)
9
5–6
White dragon wyrmling
10
7
Lindwurm (see Tome of Beasts)
10
8
Red dragon wyrmling
11
9
Young white dragon
11
10
Young mithral dragon  
(see Tome of Beasts)
12
11
Young brass dragon
13
12
Young copper dragon
14
13
Young blue dragon
15
14
Young green dragon
16
15
Young flame dragon  
(see Tome of Beasts)
17
16
Young gold dragon 
18
17
Adult white dragon
19
18
Adult mithral dragon  
(see Tome of Beasts)
20
19
Adult silver dragon
21
20
Adult red dragon
22
The dragon created by the illusion seed 
considers you to be a friend, and it speaks 
with you and keeps you company for at 
least 24 hours. During that time, the 
dragon defends itself and may defend 
you. After each additional 24 hours, you 
must make a Charisma saving throw 
as shown on the table above. When the 
check fails, the illusory dragon vanishes.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 201 ---
201
Magic Items and Trickery
Fire of any kind can unravel the forest newly 
created by an illusion seed. While a campfire or even 
bonfire does little harm, the burning of a whole 
tree unravels the forest’s magic: the trees, paths, 
and wildlife all turn to smoke and drift away in 10 
minutes. This unraveling only happens if the forest is 
less than 1 month old.
Knightly Seed
Wondrous Item, Uncommon
You must crack this seed and throw it—greater skill 
gains greater results. Make a Strength (Athletics) or 
Dexterity (Acrobatics) check and consult the table 
below. The creature that appears serves you as a knight 
and steed for a week and a day. If you are already a 
titled knight, the creature and steed serve as a squire.
Check
Result
10 or 
less
Knight with warhorse
11–15
Green knight of the woods (see Creature 
Codex) with warhorse
16–19
Wyvern knight (see Creature Codex) with 
war wyvern (see Creature Codex)
20+
Infernal knight (devil) (see Creature Codex) 
on nightmare 
Messenger Owl Seed
Wondrous Item, Common
When thrown, the seed turns into a normal owl with 
an Intelligence score of 14 and the ability to speak 
Common and Umbral. It will carry a spoken message 
and any object weighing up to 1 pound for a distance 
of up to 30 miles, delivering them to a particular 
person, a creature with a particular title or station 
(such as the “guard at the east gate of the Court of 
Golden Oak” or “the Baron of Grenstad”), or to a 
particular place (“the queen’s bedchamber” or “the 
Hedgehog Tavern”).
Once its mission is accomplished, the messenger 
owl waits for up to 4 hours for a return message or 
object to carry back to you. If no object or message is 
provided, it flies away and disappears.
Orchard Seed
Wondrous Item, Uncommon
When thrown, this illusion seeds turns into a well-
tended orchard of fruit or nut trees, depending on 
your learning and natural understanding. All its fruit 
is ripe and rich in flavor. Make either an Intelligence 
(Nature) or Wisdom (Survival) check and consult the 
table below.
Check
Result
10 or 
less
A pair of nut trees appears, such as 
hazelnut, walnut, or chestnut. 
11–15
A set of 1d6 + 4 fruit trees appears, all of a 
single type, such as cherry, apple, or pear. 
They provide a full day’s nourishment to 
anyone who eats from them.
16–19
A large orchard of 3d6 fruit trees appears, 
ready for harvest. The fruits all act as the 
goodberry spell, healing up to 10 hp total 
from the orchard and providing a day’s 
nourishment on the first day it appears.
20+
An enormous orchard of 3d12 fruit trees 
appears, ready for harvest. The fruit 
provides a day’s nourishment, acts as a long 
rest, and heals up to 10 hp per creature for 
the first day it appears. 
Fire of any kind can unravel the orchard newly 
created by an illusion seed. While a campfire or even 
bonfire does little harm, the burning of a whole 
tree unravels the forest’s magic: the trees, paths, 
and harvest all turn into smoke and drift away in 10 
minutes. This unravelling only happens if the orchard 
is less than 1 month old.
Rain and Thunder Seed
Wondrous Item, Common
This seed must be used outdoors, and when thrown, 
you gain control of the weather within a 5-mile radius 
for up to 1d8 hours. You can change precipitation, 
temperature, and wind, shifting the weather within 
30 minutes, for instance, from a clear day to a cloudy 
and rainy one, from warm to arctic cold, and from 
moderate winds to a storm. The effects of a rain 
and thunder seed must always make the weather less 
pleasant than they were before: colder, rainier, and 
windier, never the reverse. While the seed often 
produces thunder, any lightning does not strike near 
you, but neither is the lightning under your control.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 202 ---
202
Book of Ebon Tides
The effects of a rain and thunder seed can be 
countered or dispelled by either a control weather or 
counterspell spell.
Road Seed
Wondrous Item, Uncommon
This seed must be used outdoors, and when thrown, 
it creates a well-built road through any terrain, up 
to 5 miles long. The road includes up to one bridge 
crossing for a stream or chasm up to 50 feet across, 
and it may likewise include supports, log causeways, 
or leveled sections along a single section of marsh, 
hillside, or even mountainous terrain. 
A road seed combined with a tavern seed can generate 
a road twice as long as a road seed alone. A road seed can 
be countered or removed with an earthquake or shadow 
walk spell.
Stallion Seed
Wondrous Item, Common
When thrown, the seed turns into a magical, swift 
courser with an Intelligence score of 14 and the ability 
to speak Common and Umbral. It will carry you for 
up to 30 miles, delivering you to a particular place or 
following a particular road or path.
If engaged in combat, the stallion acts as a normal 
warhorse. It flees (with you) at the first opportunity.
Tavern Seed
Wondrous Item, Uncommon
A tavern seed must be used outdoors, and when thrown, 
it creates a small, snug tavern of stone and wood, 
roughly 40 feet by 20 feet, with a lower public floor 
and an upper floor devoted to the staff bedchambers, 
storage, and a single room for rent. The entire building 
takes on an outward style of architecture, materials, 
roofing, and appearance as suits the region where it 
stands. It has a staff of three: a cook, a bartender, and 
a servant, of a type typical of the region (so humans 
in a human realm, shadow fey in the Shadow Realm, 
goblins in the wastelands, and so on).
Using a tavern seed in an existing settlement creates 
a snug tavern as normal, magically shifting two 
buildings to either side slightly to make room. The 
new structure is certainly notable and surprising to 
residents of the place.
A tavern seed combined with a road seed always 
includes a set of warm, secure stables as well as the 
tavern building itself.
Memory Philters
First distilled by gnomes in the Court of Midnight 
Teeth, memory philters have since gained a 
large following among the fey. Each such philter 
contains a distilled emotion, specific memories, or a 
particular moment in time. The sable elves, shadow 
fey, shadow goblins, and wyrd gnomes all prize 
these ersatz memories, and the longer-lived fey in 
particular prize the memories of the young as a way 
of reliving fresh, youthful emotion. Some of these 
philters have game effects while others are prized 
more for their value as status items, entertainment, 
or simply for the smug sense of having stolen 
passionate moments from mortals.
All memory philters superficially resemble potions: 
they are contained in flasks or small vials, often quite 
beautifully shaped or painted to hint at the contents. 
Their ability to transfer memories makes them also 
useful to a GM to dispense clues or story elements to 
players (as in a memory that reveals a secret door, a 
plot point, or a murderer’s identity). 
Philter of Boundless Joy
Potion, Uncommon
As you imbibe this potion, you remember a time 
of pure happiness and joy, usually related to love, 
parenthood, or some other enormous, life-altering 
event—the specific memories depend on the philter’s 
creator. You have advantage on Charisma ability 
checks for 1 hour and immediately gain the effects of 
a short rest. 
The effects of this philter cancel the effects of a 
philter of deep despair.
Philter of Deep Despair
Potion, Rare
As you imbibe this potion, you remember a time 
of heart-rending sorrow, grief, and despair related 
to death, loss, or failure—the specific memories 
depend on the philter’s creator. You have advantage 
on Wisdom saving throws for 1 hour but cannot take 
bonus actions of any kind during that time.
The effects of this philter cancel the effects of a 
philter of boundless joy.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 203 ---
203
Magic Items and Trickery
Philter of Enchanted Fortune
Potion, Rare
As you imbibe this potion, you remember a time 
of staggering good fortune, accomplishment, and 
success—the specific memories depend on the 
philter’s creator. You have advantage on the next 
three ability checks, attack rolls, or saving throws you 
make (including death saving throws). 
Philter of Innocence
Potion, Rare
As you imbibe this potion, you return to a childlike 
state, remembering your life as it was in your 
formative years—the specific memories depend 
on the philter’s creator. You have resistance to 
psychic damage for 1 hour and have advantage on 
Constitution ability checks during that time.
Philter of Loving Kindness
Potion, Rare
As you imbibe this potion, you remember a time of 
love and acceptance—the specific memories depend 
on the philter’s creator. You cannot be affected by 
spells from the school of enchantment for 1 hour. 
Philter of Lust 
Potion, Uncommon
As you imbibe this potion, you are overtaken with 
memories and feelings from a time of physical 
desire—the specific memories depend on the philter’s 
creator. You must succeed on a DC 13 Wisdom saving 
throw or be overcome by a fit of lust for 1 minute. 
While in a fit of lust, you seek out either a person 
whose affection you desire or, more rarely, an object of 
consuming passion (usually a token, trophy, or fetish 
of some kind) to claim for yourself. On a successful 
saving throw, only the memories are passed to you. 
You can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of 
your turns, ending the effect on a success.
Philter of Mercy
Potion, Rare
As you imbibe this potion, you remember a time of 
mercy, atonement, and forgiveness—the specific 
memories depend on the philter’s creator. You are 
immune to being frightened for 1 hour and have 
advantage on Wisdom ability checks during that time. 
The effects of this philter cancel the effects of a 
philter of righteous anger.
Philter of Righteous Anger
Potion, Uncommon
As you imbibe this potion, you are overtaken with 
feelings of anger and memories of justice denied, 
betrayals, or blasphemy—the specific memories 
depend on the philter’s creator. You must succeed 
on a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw or be overcome 
by a fit of rage for 1 minute. While in a fit of rage, 
you have advantage on melee attack rolls, and your 
melee weapon attacks deal an extra 3 (1d6) damage. 
You cannot distinguish friend from foe and must 
attack the nearest creature. If no creatures are nearby, 
you must dash in the direction of the nearest living 
creature. If no other creature is near enough to move 
to and attack, you stalk off in a random direction, 
seeking a target for your anger. On a successful saving 
throw, only the memories are passed to you. You can 
repeat the saving throw at the end of each of your 
turns, ending the effect on a success.
The effects of this philter cancel the effects of a 
philter of mercy.
Philter of Waking Dreams
Potion, Uncommon
As you imbibe this potion, you remember a particular 
scene of importance, such as aduel, kiss, theft, 
betrayal, murder, or funeral—the specific memories 
depend on the philter’s creator. You can take no action 
for 1 round while caught up in these memories and 
thereafter cannot forget these events: any creature 
seen in such a memory will be remembered, as well as 
their name, by you as someone you have seen before. 
With a successful DC 13 Wisdom (Insight) check, you 
may note details of importance within the waking 
dream, including the relationships of people within 
the dream, their status, and the location of the dream. 
False memories cannot be created via a philter of 
waking dreams, though what the imbiber remembers 
may be colored by time or strong emotion.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 204 ---
204
Book of Ebon Tides
Potions, Scrolls, and 
Wondrous Items
The items listed here are either created exclusively 
in the Shadow Realm or simply more common there 
than elsewhere. 
Book of Ebon Tides
Wondrous Item, Very Rare  
(Requires Attunement by a Wizard) 
This strange twilight-hued tome was written on pages 
of pure shadow weave, bound in traditional birch-
board covers, wrapped with shadow goblin hide, and 
imbued with the memories of forests in the Shadow 
Realm. Its covers often dance with shadows as if it 
were resting in a forest grove, and some owners swear 
that a goblin face appears on them now and again. 
The sturdy lock on one side opens only for wizards, 
elves, and shadow fey (see Tome of Beasts). 
The book has 15 charges, and it regains 2d6 + 3 
expended charges daily in the twilight before dawn. 
If you expend the last charge, roll a d20. On a 1, 
the book retains its Ebon Tides and Shadow Lore 
properties but loses its Spells property. 
Ebon Tides. If you spend 100 hours over a period 
of 30 days or more studying the volume, you can 
perform a magical ritual to shift the structure of the 
Shadow Realm in particular ways. At any point after 
your study completes, you can expend 5 of the book’s 
charges while spending 1 minute concentrating and 
performing invocations to transform the terrain near 
you. You don’t need to repeat the study to use this 
property again. When the magic ritual completes, 
make an Intelligence (Arcana) check and consult 
the table below for the appropriate DCs. You can 
change the terrain in any one way listed at your 
result or lower. For example, if your result was 17, 
you could turn a small forest up to 30 feet across 
into a grassland, create a grove of trees up to 240 
feet across, create a 6-foot-wide flowing stream, 
overgrow 1,500 feet of an existing road, or other 
similar option. Only natural terrain you can see can 
be affected. Built structures, such as homes or castles, 
remain untouched, though roads and trails can be 
overgrown or hidden. On a failure, the terrain is 
unchanged. On a 1, an overshadow (see Tome of Beasts 
2) also appears and attacks you. On a 20, you can 
choose two options. 
Deities, fey lords and ladies (see Tome of Beasts), 
archdevils, demon lords, and other powerful rulers 
in the Shadow Realm can prevent these terrain 
modifications from happening in their presence or 
anywhere within their respective domains. 
Shadow Lore. If you spend 10 minutes referencing 
this book while researching the Shadow Realm or 
its creatures, you double your proficiency bonus on 
Arcana, History, and Religion checks to recall lore 
about such subjects for the next 24 hours. If you 
don’t have proficiency in these skills, you instead gain 
proficiency in them for the next 24 hours, but you are 
only proficient when recalling information about the 
subjects of your research. This research can be done 
during a short rest. 
Spells. While holding the book, you can use an 
action to expend 1 or more of its charges to cast 
one of the following spells from it, using your spell 
save DC and spellcasting ability: cloak of shadow* (1 
charge), darkness (2 charges), mirror image (2 charges), 
phantasmal killer (4 charges), see invisibility (2 charges), 
seeming (5 charges), shadow gateway* (5 charges), 
shadow step* (4 charges), or slither* (2 charges). You 
can also use an action to cast the douse light* or minor 
illusion cantrips from the book without using any 
charges. (Spells marked with an asterisk are from 
Deep Magic.)
Retributive Shadows. You can use an action to 
speak a special command word and rip the book 
in half. The book is destroyed and releases its 
remaining magic in a wave of shadow magic. Four 
10-foot cubes of shadow move outward from the 
book in the cardinal directions, and each cube 
moves up to 20 feet each round, away from the 
point where the book was destroyed. This effect 
works like the creeping darkness (see Deep Magic) spell, 
except it creates four cubes instead of three, and the 
necrotic damage dealt by the spell increases by 1d6 
Ebon Tides In Midgard
Written by an elven princess at the Court of Silver 
Words, this volume encodes her understanding and 
mastery of shadow. Whimsical illusions suffuse every 
page, animating its illuminated capital letters and 
ornamental figures. The book is a famous work among 
the sable elves of the Shadow Realm, and it opens to 
the touch of any elfmarked or sable elf character.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 205 ---
205
Magic Items and Trickery
for each charge remaining in the book. At the GM’s 
discretion, this effect can work like the incendiary 
cloud spell instead of the creeping darkness spell, except 
the cloud is a cloud of shadow that deals necrotic 
damage instead of fire damage, is centered on you, 
and the damage dealt by the spell increases by 1d4 for 
each charge remaining in the book. 
DC 
Effect
8 
Obscure a path and remove all signs of 
passage (30 feet per point over 7).
10 
Create a grove of trees (30 feet across per 
point over 9).
11 
Create or dry up a lake or pond (1 foot wide 
per point over 11).
12 
Create a flowing stream (1 foot wide per  
point over 11).
13 
Overgrow an existing road with brush or 
trees (300 feet per point over 12).
14 
Shift a river to a new course (300 feet per 
point over 13).
15 
Move a forest (300 feet per point over 14).
16 
Create a small hill, riverbank, or cliff (10 feet 
tall per point over 15).
17 
Turn a small forest into grassland or clearing 
or vice versa (30 feet across per point over 16).
18 
Create a new river (10 feet wide per point 
over 17).
19 
Turn a large forest into grassland or vice versa 
(300 feet across per point over 19).
20 
Create a new mountain (1,000 feet high per 
point over 19).
22 
Shrink an existing hill or mountain  
(reducing 1,000 feet per point over 21).
Collapsible Mountain
Wondrous Item, Legendary (Requires Attunement)
This small statuette of a snow-topped, forested 
mountain seems remarkably detailed, yet it stands 
only about 4 inches tall. Stories tell that it was a gift 
from the bearfolk to the shadow fey priests of Hecate 
when they first came to the Shadow Realm and that it 
was once merely a collapsible hill. Over time, its power 
has grown as it travels from one owner to another. 
The priests of Hecate say no one can retain it for 
more than a year.
When you hold the collapsible mountain, you 
may take an action to speak its command word to 
instantaneously create a pine-covered mountain, 
fully 2,500 feet tall. You may choose to either have 
the mountain rise under you or to have the mountain 
rise under another creature you can see at least 
120 feet away. In the first case, other creatures 
nearby may wind up hundreds of feet below you 
(and combat ends between any two non-adjacent 
creatures). Groups of creatures move roughly 2d6 × 
100 feet apart. If you have the mountain rise under 
another creature, you and adjacent creatures see the 
mountain grow rapidly nearby, but you remain at 
the altitude you started at. A small spring or brook 
usually appears nearby in this instance.
Each day, the mountain’s land and streams provide 
simple food and fresh, cold water sufficient to 
nourish 15 humanoids or five steeds. 
Speaking the command word again collapses the 
mountain. Any creature standing on it is not harmed 
(the descent is swift but not dangerous). Creatures 
who enter combat unaware of the nature of the 
collapsible mountain are treated as if surprised by the 
sudden change.  
Crown of Infinite Midnight
Wondrous Item, Very Rare (Requires Attunement)
This dazzling helm is set with 1d12 sapphires, 2d12 
black opals, and 3d12 obsidians. Any gem pried from 
the helm crumbles to dust. When all the gems are 
removed or destroyed, the helm loses its magic.
You gain the following benefits while wearing it:
•	 You can use an action to cast one of the 
following spells (save DC 17), using one of 
the helm’s gems of the specified type as a 
component: darkness (obsidian), vampiric 
touch (black opal), or wall of ice (sapphire). The 
gem is destroyed when the spell is cast and 
disappears from the helm.
•	 As long as it has at least one sapphire, you have 
blindsight to 120 feet. Any living creature that 
starts its turn in that area takes 1d6 necrotic 
damage.
•	 As long as the helm has at least one black opal,  
you have resistance to necrotic damage.
•	 As long as the helm has at least one piece of 
obsidian, you can use an action and speak a 
command word to cause one weapon you are 
holding to sizzle with black flames. The flames are 
harmless to you and to the weapon. When you hit 
with an attack using the blazing weapon, the target 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 206 ---
206
Book of Ebon Tides
takes an extra 1d6 fire damage. The flames last 
until you use a bonus action to speak the command 
word again or until you drop or stow the weapon.
Roll a d20 if you are wearing the helm and take 
necrotic damage as a result of failing a saving throw 
against a spell. On a roll of 1, the helm emits shadowy 
purple rays from its remaining gems. Each creature 
within 60 feet of the helm other than you must 
succeed on a DC 17 Dexterity saving throw or be 
struck by a beam, taking necrotic damage equal to the 
number of gems in the helm. The helm and its gems 
are then destroyed.
Hecate’s Lantern
Wondrous Item, Legendary  
(Requires Attunement by a Cleric or Wizard)
Hecate’s lantern is said to have been used to divide 
darkness and light during the creation of the Shadow 
Realm. It is made of gold and mithral with panes 
of amber and clear crystal, and it can be held by an 
ornate loop at its top. A single ever-burning candle 
shines within, though the panes of the lantern often 
make it appear as three candles.
You must be brandishing the lantern to use it. This 
lantern has 12 charges for the following properties. 
It regains 1d12 + 1 expended charges daily at dawn. If 
you expend the lantern’s last charge, roll a d20. On a 
1, the lantern vanishes and returns to a high priestess 
of Hecate or to the goddess herself.
Create Mire. As an action, you can expend 5 charges 
to create shadow mire (see Chapter 5) with a 40-foot 
radius centered on you.
Force Shift. As an action, you can expend 3 charges 
to force any shapeshifter you can see within 120 feet 
to shift their form. If unwilling, the target gains a DC 
13 Charisma saving throw to negate the effect.
Spells. As an action, you can cast the moonbeam spell 
(2 charges) with a range encompassing any point you 
can see or the child of light and darkness spell (8 charges, 
see Chapter 4).
Instant Door
Wondrous Item, Uncommon
This item resembles an ornate key of bright copper, 
often inset with semi-precious stones or detailed with 
engraved filigree scrollwork and ornaments. While 
holding the key, you can make a turning motion to 
create a door in any wall within 5 feet of you. This 
door goes through a wall up to 5 feet thick, creating 
an exit that remains until you remove it. Turning 
the key in the opposite direction turns any normal, 
non‑magical door into a section of stone or other 
material matching the wall to either side (wood, 
wattle, plaster, and so on).
Labyrinth Rope
Wondrous Item, Common
When you speak a command word, this rope slithers 
like a snake toward the nearest exit out of any maze, 
dungeon, or labyrinth for 1 hour at a speed of 20 feet 
per round. When it reaches the exit, it coils itself up 
and waits for you to retrieve it.
Moonseeker’s Lantern of Safe Returns
Wondrous item, rare (requires attunement)
This pyramid-shaped lantern has clear crystal sides 
and is made of black iron woven with sparkling silver. 
While holding the lantern, you can use an action 
to speak its command word. The lantern floats 2 feet 
away from you at shoulder height, and sheds bright 
light in a 30-foot-radius sphere and dim light for an 
additional 30 feet. You and any of your companions 
within 30 feet of the lantern while it is shedding light 
can’t be surprised, except when incapacitated by 
something other than nonmagical sleep. When you are 
in the Shadow Realm, the lantern also emits a pinpoint 
of light in the direction of Corremel, City of Lanterns. 
Shadow Portal Scroll
Scroll, Rare
Written on black leather in letters of glowing white, 
a shadow portal scroll opens a portal as a form of 
invitation from a fey enchanter, goblin shaman, or 
other powerful arcanist of the Shadow Realm. All 
creatures within 10 feet of you when the scroll is read 
are transported to the Shadow Realm, usually near the 
scroll maker’s residence. 
Unerring Dowsing Rod
Wondrous Item, Rare
This gnarled willow root is worn and smooth. The 
wood is dark from long centuries spent absorbing the 
living darkness of the Shadow Realm. 
When you hold this rod in both hands by its short, 
forked branches, you feel it gently tugging you toward 
the closest source of fresh water. If the closest source 
of fresh water is located underground, the dowsing 
rod directs you to a spot above the source and then 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 207 ---
207
Magic Items and Trickery
Shadow Fey Wine
Grapes do not grow easily or well in the Shadow 
Realm. The few grapes that do mature are jealously 
guarded and harvested by skilled vintners who 
handpick the precious fruit themselves. These vintners 
are loath to share their secrets with outsiders.
A batch of Winter Court wine takes approximately 
a decade to go from the crush to bottling with most 
of its time spent mellowing in ash casks. The rarer 
and more fragile Summer Court wine takes a century 
or more to reach completion. The arbutus casks that 
hold the wine are considered works of art in and 
of themselves and are often carved with scenes of 
rapturous dancing and feasting.
The faster and lighter grapes of the Starry Void wine 
mature in as little as 5 years. However, it is rarely found 
outside the realms of the Court of a Million Stars or in 
the cloisters of void cultists.
Harming a shadow fey vintner is a capital crime 
in the Shadow Realm. The perpetrators are slowly 
skinned, coated in molasses, and left tied and exposed 
in areas populated with biting insects.
dips its tip down toward the ground. When you use 
this dowsing rod on the Material Plane, it directs you 
to bodies of water, such as creeks and ponds. When 
you use it in the Shadow Realm, where fresh water is 
much more difficult to find, it directs you to bodies of 
water, but it might also direct you toward homes with 
freshwater barrels or to creatures with containers of 
fresh water on them.
Wine of the Starry Void
Potion, Rare
Found largely in the realms of the Court of a Million 
Stars and in the hands of disciples of the Void, this 
wine enables you to see the future—for a time. Roll 
10d20 and apply each resulting die in any order 
when ability checks, attack rolls, saving throws, or 
even death saving throws are required. However, all 
ten results must be applied before any normal rolls 
can resume.
Wine of the Summer Court
Potion, Rare
This white wine is slightly pink from the rose petals 
added to the grapes prior to the crush. It is light and 
airy and evaporates within an hour if left exposed to 
the air. The wine tastes of peach, grapefruit, and your 
first kiss. Drinking it fills you with giddy thoughts of 
dancing, romance, and adventure.
When you drink this wine, you have advantage on 
Charisma ability checks for 1 hour, and you can reroll 
one failed ability check, attack roll, or saving throw 
during that time.
Wine of the Winter Court
Potion, Uncommon
This wine, so dark red in color it is nearly black, pours 
from its bottle in a syrupy flow. When you drink it, 
you taste notes of sour apple, bitter ash, and jealousy, 
and your thoughts are occupied with vivid memories 
of heartbreak and loss.
When you drink this wine, you have disadvantage 
on Charisma ability checks for 1 hour, but you 
are immune to being charmed and can add your 
proficiency bonus to Wisdom saving throws for the 
duration. If you already add your proficiency bonus 
to Wisdom saving throws, your bonus is instead 
doubled for the duration.
Rings, Rods, Staves,  
and Wands
Items with a substantial degree of work invested in 
their creation—rings, rods, staves, and wands—are 
very popular as status items among the shadow fey, 
shadow goblins, and umbral humans, even for those 
who cannot use their powers.
Ring of Dancing
Ring, Uncommon
When you dance, caper, or perform for an audience, 
your movements are especially thrilling and graceful. 
You have advantage on all Charisma (Persuasion) 
checks with any fey, giant, or humanoid who has 
watched such a performance of yours within 24 hours. 
When worn with boots of dancing (see above), you 
instead have advantage on all Charisma ability checks.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 208 ---
208
Book of Ebon Tides
Ring of Daylight
Ring, Rare (Requires Attunement)
This ring has 3 charges, and it regains 1d3 expended 
charges daily at dawn. By speaking the command 
word, you can make the ring shed light in a 60-foot-
radius sphere for 1 hour. The sphere is bright light and 
sheds dim light for an additional 60 feet. If you close 
your fist, put on a glove, or otherwise cover your ring 
hand completely, you block the light. If any of this 
light’s area overlaps with an area of darkness created 
by a spell of 3rd level or lower, the spell that created 
the darkness is dispelled.
In addition, melee or ranged attacks you make 
while wearing the ring of daylight deal radiant damage 
rather than their normal type. 
Ring of the Ghouls
Ring, Rare 
This ring has 3 charges, and it regains 1d3 expended 
charges daily at dawn. While wearing the ring, when 
you make a successful melee attack and use your 
reaction to expend 1 of the ring’s charges, the target 
must succeed on a DC 13 Constitution saving throw 
or be paralyzed until the end of its next turn.
Ring of Winter’s Kiss
Ring, Rare (Requires Attunement)
When you suffer cold damage while wearing the ring 
of winter’s kiss, you take damage normally. However, 
on your next turn, you can target any creature within 
30 feet, making an attack roll with a +7 bonus. On a 
hit, the target takes the same cold damage you took.
Staff of Radiance
Staff, Very Rare (Requires Attunement by a Druid, Sorcerer, 
Warlock, or Wizard)
This staff of yarrow wood is often bleached white with 
points of glowing golden warmth embedded in the 
wood. You have resistance to radiant damage while 
you hold this staff.
The staff has 10 charges. While holding it, you can 
use an action to expend 1 or more of its charges to 
cast one of the following spells from it, using your 
spell save DC: burning radiance* (4 charges), daylight 
(2 charges), searing sun* (3 charges), or sunburst (5 
charges). You may cast the douse light* or light cantrips 
without expending a charge. (Spells marked with an 
asterisk are from Deep Magic.)
The staff regains 1d6 + 4 expended charges daily at 
dawn. If you expend the last charge, roll a d20. On a 1, 
the staff turns to a cloud of fireflies and is destroyed.
Staff of the Void
Staff, Very Rare (Requires Attunement by a Cleric, Sorcerer, 
Warlock, or Wizard)
This staff of ironwood is often cracked and gnarled 
with points of purple, wriggling movement seemingly 
moving through the wood. You have resistance to 
psychic damage while you hold this staff.
The staff has 10 charges. While holding it, you can 
use an action to expend 1 or more of its charges to 
cast one of the following spells from it, using your 
spell save DC: life drain* (5 charges), living shadows* 
(4 charges), maddening whispers* (2 charges), or 
void strike* (3 charges). You may cast the word of 
misfortune* cantrip without expending a charge. 
(Spells marked with an asterisk are from Deep Magic.)
The staff regains 1d6 + 4 expended charges daily at 
midnight. If you expend the last charge, roll a d20. 
On a 1, the staff turns to ash and is destroyed.
Wand of Shadows
Wand, Uncommon (Requires Attunement by a Spellcaster)
This wand has 5 charges. While holding it, you have 
advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks against 
creatures that rely on sight. You can also use an 
action to expend 1 or more of its charges to cast the 
darkbolt spell (save DC 15, see Deep Magic) from it. For 
1 charge, you cast the 2nd-level version of the spell. 
You can increase the spell slot level by one for each 
additional charge you expend.
The wand regains 1d6 + 1 expended charges daily 
at midnight. If you expend the last charge, roll a d20. 
On a 1, the wand turns to ash and is destroyed.
Wand of Tides
Wand, Uncommon (Requires Attunement by a Spellcaster)
This wand has 5 charges. While holding it, you cannot 
be paralyzed. You can also use an action to expend 1 or 
more of its charges to warp space around you, filling 
it with tangible shadows. All creatures moving toward 
you move as if they are in difficult terrain. Attack rolls 
against you have disadvantage. The shadows last for 3 
rounds or until you choose to end them.
The wand regains 1d4 + 1 expended charges daily 
at midnight. If you expend the last charge, roll a d20. 
On a 1, the wand turns to ash and is destroyed.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 209 ---
209
Magic Items and Trickery
Weapons
These weapons are all found more often in the 
Shadow Realm than in the mortal world, and many 
were first created there. Racial weapons of the 
bearfolk, fey, and ghouls are all included.
Blade of Grass
Weapon (Sword or Axe), Uncommon (Requires Attunement 
by a Druid or Cleric)
This magic weapon has 7 charges. While holding it, 
you can use a bonus action and expend 1 charge to 
conjure a thick patch of shrubs, grasses, aboveground 
roots, and even small saplings in a 10-foot radius. 
The area becomes difficult terrain, and the foliage is 
thick enough to provide cover against ranged attacks. 
The growth is permanent unless you speak the 
command word again.
The weapon regains all expended charges after a 
short or long rest.
Fey Blade
Weapon (Sword or Axe), Uncommon
This weapon is lightweight and portable and can 
easily fit into a dagger sheath, even if a two-handed 
weapon or polearm. You can draw it from the sheath 
or replace it as a bonus action.   
Frostglow Weapon
Weapon (Rapier or Dagger), Rare (Requires Attunement)
These mithral weapons are commonly found among 
gnomes and quicksteps, who prize their power to 
shed a chilling blue light on command. You can use a 
bonus action to speak this weapon’s command word, 
and all creatures within 30 feet must succeed on a DC 
15 Constitution saving throw, becoming paralyzed 
for 1 round on a failed saving throw and having their 
speed reduced to zero for 1 round on a successful one. 
The effect ends at the beginning of your next turn. 
This action cannot be used again until the next dawn.
Hecate’s Dagger
Weapon (Dagger), Legendary (Requires Attunement by a 
Cleric or Wizard)
This adamantine dagger has a blue leather hilt 
wrapped with gold wire, a star opal as its pommel. 
Its blade is etched with the phases of the moon and 
a triangle similar to Hecate’s holy symbol. It is said 
to be one of the daggers the goddess used when she 
parted and shaped raw shadow to create the Shadow 
Realm for her devoted followers. Several such 
daggers may exist.
You gain a +3 bonus to attack and damage rolls 
made with this magic weapon. It has the following 
additional properties.
Counterspell. When you speak Hecate’s name 
while wielding the dagger, your counterspell rolls are 
all made with advantage. 
Geas. Once per day, you may cast the geas spell on 
any cleric, paladin, or devout follower of Hecate. 
Control Shadows. Once per day, you may cast 
either the ebon tide spell (see Chapter 4) or the 
dimension door spell.
Lunar Lance
Weapon (Any Polearm), Uncommon
Made by shadow goblins to keep larger foes at a 
distance, lunar lances are often given to goblins on 
battlements or other vantage points. They weigh 
literally nothing but are as sharp as any dagger. This 
weapon adds 10 feet to your reach when attacking 
with it.
Mooncatcher’s Net
Weapon (Net), Rare (Requires Attunement)
Used by the river giants to harvest memory 
fragments from the dark waters of the Shadow 
Realm, mooncatcher’s nets are woven by the priests of 
Hecate or by moonshadow catcher goblins. 
You have a +1 bonus on attack rolls with this 
magic weapon. It has the normal effects of a net 
but is very tough. A creature must succeed on a DC 
16 Strength check to free itself or another creature 
from the net. Dealing 15 slashing damage to the net 
also frees the creature. The net has AC 14 and 25 hit 
points. It regains 1 hit point every 5 minutes as long 
as it has at least 1 hit point. If the net drops to 0 hit 
points, it is destroyed. 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 210 ---
210
Book of Ebon Tides
As well as using the net as a weapon, you can drag 
the net through dark water (see Chapter 5) to harvest 
1d4 random memory fragments. Roll 1d10 on the 
table below for each fragment to determine the 
memory fragment captured. Each memory fragment 
can be used as component in creating a memory 
philter (see Memory Philters above) of the type 
listed in parentheses. You must make a successful 
DC 15 Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) check to transfer 
each memory fragment from the net into a suitable 
container or it is lost. 
d10
Memory fragment
1 
Happy time with a friend (philter of boundless 
joy)
2 
Embarrassing failure (philter of deep despair)
3
Glorious success (philter of enchanted fortune)
4
Favored childhood memory (philter of 
innocence)
5
Act of kindness (philter of loving kindness)
6 
Romantic partner (philter of lust)
7
Deceased loved one (philter of mercy)
8 
Great victory in battle (philter of righteous 
wrath)
9 
A dream (philter of waking dreams)
10 
Roll twice
Moonsteel Weapon 
Weapon (Rapier or Dagger), Rare 
The blade of this magic weapon seems to shine from 
within with a pale white light. The weapon deals an 
extra 1d6 radiant damage to any creature it hits. If the 
creature is not in its true form, it becomes frightened 
until the start of your next turn. At the start of its 
turn, a creature frightened in this way must succeed 
on a DC 13 Charisma saving throw or immediately 
return to its true form. 
Quickstep Weapon
Weapon (Rapier or Dagger), Uncommon  
(Requires Attunement) 
When you wield this weapon and a creature you 
can see targets you with an attack, you can use your 
reaction to move to an unoccupied space within 5 
feet of your position without provoking opportunity 
attacks. If this movement would put you out of reach 
of the attacker, the attack is at disadvantage.
Scepter Weapon
Weapon (Club, Hammer, Mace, or Staff), Rare  
(Requires Attunement)
By speaking this weapon’s command word as a 
bonus action, you activate a harsh purple light. While 
this light shines, you have advantage on Charisma 
(Intimidate) checks made to interact with beasts, 
dragons, fey, giants, humanoids, and monstrosities. 
In addition, any foe or object you strike with a 
scepter weapon glows, shedding dim light in a 10-foot 
radius. Any attack roll against an affected creature or 
object has advantage if the attacker can see it, and the 
affected creature or object can’t benefit from being 
invisible.
Witchlight Scimitar
Weapon (Scimitar), Rare (Requires Attunement)
You can use a bonus action to speak this magic 
scimitar’s command word, causing golden radiance 
to spring from the blade. It sheds bright light in a 
30-foot-radius sphere and dim light for an additional 
30 feet. While the scimitar is ablaze, it deals an 
extra 2d6 radiant damage to any target it hits. The 
witchlight glow lasts until you use a bonus action to 
speak the command word again or until you drop or 
sheathe the scimitar.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 211 ---
211
Appendices
The Shadow Realm is a grand, strange domain of fey magics and hungry shadows.
Magic of the Fey
Items listed here are magical but rarely in a way that is useful in combat. They are 
meant to enhance the user’s appearance, provide entertainment, or display status. 
The owner of one or more such items gains +1 Status while visiting a fey court.
Appendix: Life in the Shadow Realm
LESSER UMBRAL ITEMS OF THE SHADOW FEY
d20 Umbral Items
1
Dancing Shadow Amulet. Wearing this amulet 
makes your shadow dance and caper in 
amusing ways.
2
Shadow Umbrella. This parasol floats near  
you, protecting you from direct sunlight or 
from rain.
3
Floating Hat. This is a normal hat that always 
floats a handspan above your head. It tips itself 
courteously to ladies and gentlemen.
4
Animated Goblet. This fine silver goblet  
floats above the table and will go refill itself 
from a cask or spring when ordered. It  
comes when called.
5
Animated Cutlery. This fine silver—a knife, 
fork, and spoon set—will dance for you, create 
ringing noise (as before a toast), and even carve 
a roast or stir soup or tea for you.
6
Glittering Shadow Powder. This powder adds 
luminous green, blue, or purple sparkles to 
your shadow.
7
Glimmering Hair Comb. While this comb 
remains in your locks, your hair shines and 
reflects light almost as bright as sunlight  
on water.
8
Flawless Raiment. These clothes are always 
clean, dry, fashionable, and well-tailored.
9
Purifying Canteen. The water poured from this 
canteen is always free of shadow corruption.
10
Umbral Incense. This incense draws shadows 
together in a 5-foot radius and burns for up 
to 15 minutes. Even in blazing sunlight, the 
conditions more closely resemble dim light.
11
Dawn Alarm. When the moons rise (or the 
sun, in the mortal realm or Summer Lands), 
this pale-white stone glows bright yellow, and a 
songbird sings.
12
Gilded Shadow. Your shadow is not black 
and gray but gold and silver. Your Dexterity 
(Stealth) checks are all at disadvantage.
13
Sunlight Candle. This candle burns with the full 
light of the sun in a 10-foot radius for 2 hours.
14 
Phantasmal Tapestry. A traditional tapestry, 
often showing a unicorn, hippogriff, dragon, 
hunting party, or similar scene—but animated 
and often staring at the viewer. Depending on 
the subject, rabbits twitch, birds wheel about, 
waves crash on the shore, and wind sways the 
woven trees.
15
Perfumed Bath Tent. This tent resembles a 
bedroll or small rucksack. When shaken, it 
becomes a 10-by-10-foot tent complete with a 
wooden tub of hot water, fragrant pine or rose 
scents, and towels. It is far too thin to provide 
much protection against wind, cold, or rain, 
but it makes a fine way to remove the mud of 
roads and fields.
16
Everblooming Vase. Flowers placed in this vase 
never fade or wither.
17
Spider Silk Rope. With a sticky end as effective 
as a grappling hook and a weight of mere 
ounces, this 50-foot rope assists climbers with 
foot loops and can fit into a small pocket.
18
Watchful Bat. This small bat statue takes on 
the coloration of its perch and can watch for 
a particular person, creature, or event. When 
that person or event is witnessed, it finds you 
and tell you about it.
19
Icy Wind Fan. With a cooling breeze, the icy 
wind fan provides comfort on summer days. 
20
GM’s Choice from the list.
d20 Umbral Items
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 212 ---
212
Book of Ebon Tides
GREATER UMBRAL ITEMS OF THE SHADOW FEY
d20
Umbral Items
1
Moon Helmet. This helmet is made entirely 
of transparent metal, so your vision is not 
obstructed.
2
Ebony Scabbard. A scabbard of purest 
darkness, it helps you gather shadows about 
yourself. You may attempt to hide while in plain 
sight once per day.
3
Animated Banner. This banner shows a moving, 
ferocious form of your heraldic crest, such as a 
lion rampant or a dragon breathing fire.
4
Umbral Palanquin. This palanquin seats one 
person and is carried by invisible forces. You 
need never walk anywhere.
5
Ephemeral Tent. This tent appears fully set 
when called, complete with brazier of coals, 
a pair of comfortable beds, and a small table 
set with nourishing food. It provides limited 
protection against bitter cold, storm winds, 
and heavy rain. Poor conditions may shred it.
6
Shadow Reins. These black reins with silver 
bells are hardly visible, but they are highly 
effective in transmitting your wishes to a 
mount. All Wisdom (Animal Handling) checks 
when dealing with a mount fitted with shadow 
reins have advantage.
7
Mooncatcher’s Delight. This small amulet 
always draws moonlight to you. You’ll never 
stand in darkness. 
8
Phantasmal Feast. A deep-red tablecloth woven 
of shadows, it creates enough nutritious food 
for two creatures when placed on a table.
9
Dog Shadow. Your shadow resembles a 
faithful dog, which is watchful and barks when 
creatures approach. You cannot be surprised.
10
Sunlight Lantern. This hooded lantern burns 
with the full light of the sun in a 30-foot radius 
with dim light for an additional 30 feet. It 
burns for 6 hours on enchanted oil and can be 
damped to a 5-foot radius as needed.
11
Umbral Hunting Hounds. Two shadowy 
hounds that come when called. You have 
advantage on Wisdom (Survival) checks to 
follow a trail using scent. 
12
Shadow Fanfare. A set of silver trumpets 
announces your arrival every time you enter a 
room. 
13
Spider Silk Boat. The size of a handkerchief, it 
becomes a small, two-person rowboat when 
shaken out. It must be rowed normally but can 
be returned to kerchief size once you reach 
shore.
14
Ghost Jar. This jar can hold one ghost or 
phantom, which answers questions or moans 
hauntingly from time to time. If a second 
question is asked on any given day, a successful 
DC 14 Charisma (Persuasion) check is 
required, or the ghost departs.
15
Whispering Pebble. A small stone that whispers 
nonsense without pause. If left alone in a 
room, it always sounds as if a conversation is 
happening, but the gist of it is never clear. If 
addressed, the stone falls silent.
16
Illusory Tower. This gleaming, transparent 
stone tower contains a single set of spiral stairs 
up to a height of about 50 feet. At the top, a flat 
platform and battlements provide an excellent 
view in all directions. The tower provides no 
cover or protection but is useful for seeing into 
the distance.
17
Evergroomed Kit. This pouch is made of oiled 
leather and holds various grooming products: 
such as shampoo, hair oil, a comb, a shaving 
razor, pressed powder, and a hand mirror. On 
spending 1 minute grooming yourself with the 
items from this kit, you are clean and fresh, hair 
perfectly styled, makeup party ready. 
18
Feline Ring. This silver band creates an 
adorable illusory kitten. The kitten appears 
from behind a chair, someone’s leg, or other 
cover and frolics and tumbles about. If 
approached, it flees and disappears once it’s 
behind total cover.   
19 
Spectral Kestrel. This translucent bird of prey 
perches on your shoulder or wrist, keen-eyed 
and waiting. It can follow simple commands 
(such as fly, return, fetch, and harry) and has 
advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks. 
20
GM’s Choice from the list.
d20
Umbral Items
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 213 ---
213
Appendices
Trickery and Whimsy
The items in this section are tricks, art, and illusions done for show or to discomfit a rival without injury. These 
are performed with cantrip-level magic for the most part, though some merely use oils, scents, or ventriloquism. 
The fey gifts and glamours are charms or knacks sometimes bestowed as boons by fey lords and ladies to their 
followers or favorites. These gifts can be rescinded from those who fall out of favor.
TRICKS AND PRANKS OF THE GNOMES AND SHADOW GOBLINS
d12
Tricks and Pranks
1
Frosty Frown. Your facial expression is 
frozen in a scowl for at least 1 hour. A DC 11 
Constitution saving throw negates this.
2
Hidden Door. An important chamber’s 
doorway is hidden behind an illusion. 
Courtiers seem to pass through the wall when 
they enter or leave this way.
3
Living Statue. A statue speaks and moves, 
mocking visitors or commenting on their 
choice of apparel.
4
Irritated Guard. Words are put in a guard’s 
mouth, such as “You’re not allowed here” or 
“Her majesty wishes you to leave the court at 
once.” These are lies, but the guard is either 
paralyzed or silenced and cannot correct the 
statement verbally.
5
Sewer Stench of Garlic. A particular set of 
boots or a cloak is infused with a rancid smell. 
Magic or several washings are required to get 
it out.
6
Rotting Garments. Your clothes are made to 
look moth-eaten, worn, patched, or otherwise 
slipshod.
7
Sliding Carpet. A carpet is infused with 
grease or oil that is not visible. Stepping on it 
requires a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw, or 
you fall prone (no damage except to dignity). 
When placed on a staircase, 1d6 falling 
damage may apply.
8
Enormous Belch. A huge belch seems to come 
from a genteel fey or human.
9
Stampede! A herd of sheep, goats, oxen, or 
cattle seems to be rushing down the hallway. 
Those who stand in its way are not injured, 
but goblins laugh at anyone who is startled.
10
Tiny Thieves. Trained crows, ravens, or even 
squirrels take food or small objects (such 
as buttons, laces, or hair pins) away from a 
creature and scamper off to the nearest tree or 
tower with their haul.
11
Storm Cloud. A small rain cloud follows you, 
drizzling on you (and only you) and leaving 
you damp.
12
GM’s Choice from the list.
d12
Tricks and Pranks
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 214 ---
214
Book of Ebon Tides
GIFTS AND GLAMOURS OF THE FEY
d12
Gifts and Glamours
1
Scent of Lemons and Roses. You smell of roses 
and lemons, even in the dead of winter or 
other unlikely times.
2
Flower Clothing. Your clothes are embroidered 
with flowers that sway in an unfelt breeze and 
that blossom, close, and turn to seed in a swift-
flowing cycle of a few minutes.
3
Cloud of Kind Lights. You are surrounded by a 
cloud of wispy lights that always display you to 
advantage.
4
Deep Eyes like Pools. Your eyes are entrancing. 
If you succeed with a Wisdom (Insight) check, 
you can always catch another creature’s eyes 
within 30 feet. 
5
Entrancing Voice. Your voice is sweet or 
resonant; if you succeed with a Charisma 
(Performance) check, you can always gather 
the attention of creatures within 30 feet.
6
Artist’s Eye. You can describe any creature in 
detail or sketch it with uncanny accuracy.  
7
A Fey Kiss. If a creature permits you to kiss it, 
your lips leave a lasting memory. Creatures 
you have kissed always remember you fondly, 
even if they never see you again. 
8
Beguiling Caper. You dance with grace and 
beauty. At any party or festival where you 
dance, others stop to watch you.
9
Elegant Speech. Your rhetoric is sublime. You 
make Charisma (Persuasion) checks with 
advantage when first meeting a creature you 
share a language with.
10
Swift Rider. You can spur any mount to 
extraordinary speed. Your mount’s Dash 
actions always add both your own speed and 
the mount’s speed.
11
Follow Me. When you crook a finger at 
another creature, it often feels inspired to 
follow you. This applies as much to hounds 
and horses as it does to humanoids, fey, and 
giants. Sometimes, however, the charm fails; 
if counterspelled by an arcanist or resisted by 
a powerful fey, you may be compelled to move 
toward the creature that you sought to draw 
close to yourself.
12
GM’s Choice from the list.
BELOVED ILLUSIONS OF THE FEY COURTS
d12
Illusory Effects
1
Enchanted Forest. A great hall or audience 
chamber resembles a lush forest of fragrant 
trees, ferns, and similar growth. Trees may hide 
doorways or balconies. It is difficult to tell what 
is a pillar and what is a tree.
2
Moonlit Hallway. An indoor hallway is lit by 
clear beams of moonlight. 
3
Starry Carpet. The carpet resembles an open 
void filled with stars, comets, and moonlight. 
The carpet is disquieting to walk on.
4
Distant Towers. A set of tall, shining towers 
is visible from a balcony or window, but it is 
impossible to visit them. They are illusions near 
the horizon.
5
Silent Parade. A favorite of gnomes and fey 
children, a silent parade involves elves, goblins, 
bearfolk and erina, all marching and singing, 
shouting, playing trumpets, or pounding 
drums—but completely silent. Humans tend 
to find it eerie rather than hilarious. 
6
Living Tapestry. Though similar to a 
phantasmal tapestry (see Lesser Umbral 
Items of the Shadow Fey above), these feature 
unicorns, hippogriffs, lions, or other animals 
that can exit the tapestry, wandering within 
120 feet of it, fully alive.
7
Speaking Doors. A door with a metal knocker 
speaks and argues with those seeking to pass 
through it.
8
Infinite Hallway. The hallway seems to lead to 
a golden doorway, but walking down it never 
brings you any closer to the end.
9
Bed Monsters. Growling and hissing can 
be heard beneath a particular bed. When 
investigated, the space is empty.
10
Beehives. A section of window seems to be a 
transparent beehive with the bees themselves 
always visible.
11
Phantom Orchestra. Light chamber music 
drifts on the air without any obvious source, as 
if played by some small group always just out 
of sight. 
12
GM’s Choice from the list.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 215 ---
215
Appendices
Life in Shadows
The peoples of the Shadow Realm have adapted and thrived in a wide assortment 
of ways, stamping their own personalities and dreams into the realm.
FASHIONS OF THE COURTS
d12
Apparel
1
Shadow Silk Cloak. Woven out of darkness 
itself, a shadow silk cloak is a simple yet 
impressive accessory. This silky garment floats 
about you as if in a breeze and evaporates when 
removed, leaving behind nothing but the clasp 
until it is donned again.
2
Gossamer Veil. This veil is made from strands of 
gossamer and starlight, light as air and delicate 
as a dream. 
3
Redcap. Found often in the shadow goblin 
courts, a redcap is a hat of any style dyed a deep, 
blood red. Those who hold to tradition dye their 
cap by soaking it in the fresh blood of a slain foe 
on a regular basis, bur that custom has largely 
fallen out of favor—though the darakhul have 
taken up the tradition.
4
Heavens’ Weave Clothing. Clothes made from 
heavens’ weave fabric are black or dark blue and 
shimmer with constellations and star patterns 
of the mortal world. 
5
Glass Gatorskin Accessories. Once tanned 
and dyed, the translucent skin of the glass 
gator becomes partially opaque, lending it 
a fascinating, crystal-like appearance, and 
it has the added benefit of being completely 
waterproof. Boots and gloves made of this 
material are especially popular with the 
shadow fey of all social classes, though only the 
nobility can readily afford them. 
6
Sun-Stitched Raiment. Created and prized 
by the bearfolk of the Shadow Realm, these 
clothes are stitched over with luminous golden 
thread. The cloth is warm to the touch, as if laid 
out in the sun, and has a bolstering effect on 
your emotional state. 
7
Moon Sable Fur Mantelet. Commonly 
considered a more feminine accessory, this 
short cape is made of the pure-white fur of the 
moon sable and is worn more for style rather 
than utility.  
8
Living Tattoo. While not technically alive, 
these intricate tattoos are infused with illusion 
magic, allowing them to move and shift over 
your skin, and they can even travel from one 
part of the body to another based on your 
whims. 
9
Sackcloth Clothing. Resembling prison garb, 
sackcloth clothing is a sign that you have been 
exiled from a court or city. Often a punishment 
in lieu of death, offending parties are stripped 
of belongings, dressed in sackcloth, and run out 
of town. Some wear the uncomfortable apparel 
as a form of atonement for their transgressions. 
10
Moonglow Jewelry. The glowing gems in these 
elaborate accessories are made of moonlight, 
captured and cut into dazzling jewels.
11
Starlight Coronet. Tiny, shimmering motes of 
light encircle your head or sit nestled within 
your hair. 
12
 GM’s choice from this list.
d12
Apparel
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 216 ---
216
Book of Ebon Tides
BELOVED PETS OF THE SHADOWS
d12
Strange Creatures
1
Shimmer Serpent. This snake is 3–5 feet long 
but remains slender and delicate. The serpent 
is a solid, glossy black except for its belly, which 
features a shimmering, spangled pattern that 
resembles a starry night sky. 
2
Moon Sable. A sleek, keen-eyed musteline with 
pure-white fur and the ability to convey simple 
emotions via empathic projection.  
3
Umbraling. This piece of living shadow can be 
as small as a mouse or as large as a cat, and it 
takes on the form of whatever animal is most 
pleasing to its owner, though it has no features 
beyond a black silhouette.
4
Weal Bug. This jewel-green, cricket-like insect 
is often carried in a tiny, elaborate cage tied to 
the owner’s belt or scabbard or even carried by 
a servant. It is said that its chirp draws good 
fortune to its owner and that it goes silent to 
warn of ill luck nearby.
5
Wolpertinger. A tiny creature, the 
wolpertinger (see Creature Codex) resembles a 
fanged rabbit with wings and horns. There are 
many breeds, from raven-black wolpertingers 
with a single spiral horn to the more common 
mottled‑brown, deer-antlered variety. 
6
Midnight Dragonette. Also known as the 
twilight dragonling, this tiny, dragon-like 
creature has an uncanny intelligence and a 
fondness for shiny trinkets. Its coloration tends 
toward blacks, greys, purples, and deep blues 
with the occasional hint of the deep reds of 
sunset. Its pupils are shaped like starbursts, and 
it breathes wreaths of purple vapor when happy.
7
Umbral Hunting Hound Puppies. A pair of 
shadowy puppies that come when called. They 
wrestle with each other, chase shadows, and are 
otherwise cute and cuddly.
8
Pocket Pig. This diminutive blue piglet is small 
enough to fit in a pouch or backpack. It is 
prized by some households for its ability to 
sniff out rare culinary ingredients.
9
Flutterby. This feline creature resembles a 
common housecat with large butterfly wings. 
Though only able to fly for short distances, it is 
a prized pet in many noble fey households.
10 
Aetherfish. This shimmering fish “swims” in 
the air around its owner, its long, fan-like 
fins rippling gently in an unseen current. It 
occasionally takes on a ghostly appearance or 
momentarily disappears altogether as it passes 
too close to the border of the ethereal plane.
11
Lamplark. This diminutive songbird has soft 
gray-brown feathers and two distinctive black 
crescents just beneath its eyes. Belying its 
somewhat lackluster appearance, the lamplark 
sings beautiful and elaborate songs but only at 
night. When it sings, the lamplark glows like 
a golden beacon, shedding bright light in a 
15‑foot radius.
12
Snapdragon. A curious, sentient plant, the 
snapdragon has a long stem, broad leaves, 
and a vivid blossom that comes in a variety 
of colors. It is content to remain potted and 
indoors, though it can turn grumpy and brown 
if it outgrows its pot or if the pot is too plain 
for its tastes. An unhappy snapdragon has the 
tendency to bite.
d12
Strange Creatures
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 217 ---
217
Appendices
FOODS OF THE SHADOW REALM
d12
Dishes and Delicacies
1
Twilight Venison Stew. This hearty stew is 
made from the meat of the deer that wander 
the Shadow Realm, cooked in a rich, thick 
gravy with white and purple root vegetables. 
It is enjoyed by all classes and creatures within 
the Realm.
2
Air and Darkness Chiffon Cake. This fluffy,  
airy cake is flavored with a dark, bitter 
chocolate and topped with powdered sugar 
and black walnuts.
3
Fried Scuttles. Scuttles are a white beetle 
found feasting on deadfall in shadowy forests. 
Once fried, they become tender yet their shells 
crispy, and they’re often served with a side of 
stinging nettle sauce for dipping. This dish 
is favored by the shadow goblins, erina, and 
some alseid. 
4
Sautéed Midnight Morels. Conical black 
mushrooms cooked in butter and topped with 
shadow salts. Raw, this fungus is toxic, but 
cooked properly, it takes on a nutty, earthy 
flavor. 
5
Golden Nightjar. Dusk-singing whip-poor-
will roasted in a crust of saffron. Each chef 
adds additional spices to create a custom 
version of the dish, and the requisite saffron 
turns the skin and meat of the cooked bird a 
deep yellow.
6
Dreamingwine. A sweet dessert wine, this 
deep-red digestif is made with grapes that 
have been exposed to noble rot and the 
daydreams of young lovers. A small family of 
wyrd gnomes have begun developing a new 
vintage, made with white grapes and the bitter 
regrets of one dying of old age.
7
Candied Twilight Pears. This purple fruit 
is sliced thin and simmered in honey. It’s 
served warm with a side of clotted cream. 
Consuming it conveys a temporary sense of 
mild euphoria. 
8
Stygian Swill. A cheap and heady spirit made 
by distilling wheat or other grain with waters 
from the Styx or Lethe. It is highly potent 
and extremely bitter, and those not native to 
the Shadow Realm often find they wake the 
next day with memories that do not belong to 
them. 
9
Whisper Blossom Pods. The long, finger-
shaped seed pods of the whisper blossom are 
a versatile and delicious side dish. They can be 
battered and fried, sautéed in butter, or even 
added to stews and soups to add a dash of 
spice and melancholy. 
10
Glass Gator Sweetbreads. The breaded and 
fried glands and organs of the glass gator are a 
particular delicacy in many noble households. 
The transparent nature of the creature and 
its meat make it difficult to hunt and butcher, 
making this a costly offering.
11
Steamed Shadowspider Legs. While the legs 
of the shadowspider matron are black and 
spiney, the meat within is light and flakey 
when steamed. This dish is often served with 
clarified butter seasoned with black truffle. 
12
GM’s choice from this list.
d12
Dishes and Delicacies
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 218 ---
218
Book of Ebon Tides
CANTRIPS OF THE FEY
d12
Cantrip Effects
1
Eldritch Blast. Your eldritch blast briefly leaves 
behind a lingering trail of illusory flower 
petals, falling leaves, or butterflies in the color 
of your choice.
2
Light. Though your light spell provides the 
same illumination as always, it appears as a 
purple-black glow casting off dark rainbows. 
3
Spare the Dying. When you cast spare the dying, 
shadows pour from your mouth and fingers 
and sink into your target’s chest. 
4
Resistance. When you cast resistance, your 
target is surrounded by iridescent, sparkling 
motes that remain until the spell ends. 
5
Mage Hand. Your mage hand appears as a 
knobby, twisted hag’s hand. 
6
Message. When you cast message, your voice 
arrives at the target’s ear, discordant and 
disconcerting, with whispered echoes and 
strange voices layered among your own.
7
Produce Flame. When you cast produce flame, 
the fire appears as black, blue, pink, or purple. 
8
Mending. When you cast mending, dozens of 
tiny, shimmering spectral beetles envelop 
the damaged area, dissipating into glittering 
smoke when the spell is complete.
9
Dancing Lights. Your dancing lights appear as 
swarms of blue and purple fireflies, spectral 
glowing goblin skulls, or tiny illusory moons. 
10
Shillelagh. When you cast shillelagh, the wood 
of your staff or club becomes twisted and 
black and glowing, wicked-looking thorns 
emerge from it. 
11
Guidance. When you cast guidance, your 
target’s eyes are briefly framed by glowing 
purple or smoky black butterfly wings.
12
 GM’s choice from this list.
OMENS OF THE SHADOWS
d12
Omens
1
Raven Feather. A single black raven feather in 
your path means death will find you soon.
2
Dancing Stars. Occasionally, a star may 
reorient itself in the heavens, moving from 
one point in the sky to another. This indicates 
shifting allegiances—either one that is 
already in place or one that should be strongly 
considered.
3
Backward-Flowing River. If you stumble 
upon a portion of the Styx or Lethe that is 
flowing in the wrong direction, the spirits 
are unquiet or displeased with your current 
course of action. 
4
Rotten Fruit. If you bite into a piece of fruit 
and find it rotten, someone close to you will 
soon betray you.
5
Colored Flame. If your candle or fire burns 
blue, the time is ripe for you to act. If it burns 
black, beware a blade in the dark. If it burns 
purple, you’ll have a visitor soon. If it burns 
green, good news is on its way.
6
Cracked Cauldron. A crack appearing in your 
cauldron or other dishware means you’ll soon 
meet your love. 
7
Stryx Shadow. A stryx shadow crossing over 
you means your current path leads to tragedy.
8
Phantom Knock. If you hear a knocking but 
find no one there, a known secret must be 
kept at all costs. 
9
Thick Mist. A heavy mist or fog means the 
spirits are trying to convey a message. It is the 
ideal time to attempt to contact the dead. 
10
Spilled Wine. If someone spills their wine at 
dinner, they will die within two nights. If you 
spill someone else’s wine, their death will be 
your fault. 
11
Spare Tooth. If you discover an unexpected 
tooth—in your food, on the ground, or even 
in your own mouth—good luck is with you.
12
GM’s choice from this list.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 219 ---
219
Appendices
MOUNTS IN THE SHADOWS
d12
Mounts (Large unless noted otherwise)
1
Lesser Unicorn. Also known as a false unicorn, 
this creature resembles a slender white horse 
with split hooves and a single shimmering 
horn on its forehead. It lacks the intelligence 
and magical abilities of a true unicorn but can 
use an action to teleport up to 60 feet when in 
moonlight. Its speed is 50 feet.
2
Valravn. This mount has the body of a wolf 
with the head and wings of a raven. It has a 
speed (including flying) of 50 feet.
3
Horned Frog. This black and purple 
amphibian has two unicorn-like horns that 
protrude just above its eyes. With a speed 
(including swimming) of 40 feet, a long jump 
of 30 feet, and a high jump of 20 feet, this 
mount is especially advantageous in areas of 
uneven terrain.
4
Racing Snail. This large snail’s spiraling 
conical shell comes in a variety of hues, and 
the top breeders pride themselves on creating 
new and unique color combinations. The 
racing snail has a speed (including climbing) 
of 50 feet and can climb difficult surfaces, 
including upside down on ceilings, without 
needing to make an ability check.  
5
Giant White Rook. This white bird has dark 
eyes and a keen intelligence. It has a speed of 
10 feet and a fly speed of 60 feet. It can follow 
simple instructions and can mimic short 
phrases of six words or less. 
6
Sylvan Hare. Also known as a sylvie, this 
Medium rabbit has feather-soft fur—in black, 
dark gray, or white—red eyes, and overlong 
ears. It has a speed of 40 feet, a long jump of 
30 feet, and a high jump of 20 feet, and it has 
advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks 
related to sound. Halflings in the Shadow 
Realm prefer sylvies as their mounts.
7
Aquileona. A white and gold lion with a 
thick mane and broad, eagle-like wings, the 
aquileona is a fierce and terrifying mount. It 
has a speed (including flying) of 50 feet.
8
Marbled Widow. A mottled black and white 
spider, the marbled widow has slender legs, a 
bulbous abdomen, and paralyzing venom (DC 
15 Constitution saving throw or be paralyzed 
for 1 minute). Though its speed is only 40 
feet, it can climb difficult surfaces, including 
upside down on ceilings, without needing to 
make an ability check, and it has advantage on 
Dexterity (Stealth) rolls. 
9
Onyx Moa. This Medium flightless bird has 
jet-black feathers, wicked talons, and a broad, 
razor-sharp beak. With a speed of 60 feet, 
it’s able to outpace many creatures and is the 
favored mount of the Shadow Realm’s goblins 
and gnomes.    
10
Reitenhund. A sleek black and brown canine, 
the reitenhund is the ideal mount for hunters 
and trackers. It moves quickly, with a speed 
of 60 feet, and has advantage on Wisdom 
(Survival) checks when tracking prey.
11
Kalong. A fuzzy black bat with a foxlike 
face, the kalong is awkward and slow on the 
ground but particularly quick and agile in the 
air. It has a speed of 10 feet and a fly speed of 
60 feet, and it has blindsight to 60 feet.
12
GM’s choice from this list.
d12
Mounts (Large unless noted otherwise)
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 220 ---
220
Book of Ebon Tides
STRANGE SERVANTS OF THE SHADOWS
d12
Servants
1
Knitter. Appearing as a humanoid or fey 
woman with overlarge solid-black eyes, a 
knitter has two extra sets of arms that she 
normally keeps hidden beneath her clothes. 
Knitters are highly proficient in dexterous 
tasks, including sewing, mending, weaving, 
and crochet, but her extra arms come in handy 
for all sorts of jobs. 
2
Shadow Attendant. This shadowy, humanoid 
form coalesces out of the darkness when called 
and returns to the shadows when dismissed. It 
can perform simple tasks, like tending to a fire, 
cleaning, serving drinks, and carrying written 
messages. 
3
Chatterbox. A 2-foot-tall, white-skinned 
humanoid with a too-wide mouth and vacant 
eyes, the chatterbox makes a magical record of 
any conversation it hears and can repeat it back 
verbatim later. They often replace scribes for 
nobles who need to constantly jot down lists 
or reminders—and the opportunities for spies 
are endless. 
4
Pyreflies. These Tiny insects flit from room to 
room, kindling fires in hearths and lighting 
candles as darkness falls. 
5
Nanny Goat. This goatlike humanoid has 
horizontal, rectangular pupils, two small, 
curved horns, and is quick and agile on their 
hooved feet. They’re often employed as an 
assistant to nursemaids and governesses to 
shadow fey children. 
6
House Brownie. Tiny and shy, the house 
brownie is very rarely seen, but the fruits of 
its labor manifest as mysteriously completed 
household tasks. A fireplace cleaned, floors 
scrubbed, and pots and pans sparkling in 
the drying rack are all evidence of a house 
brownie. While it only requires payment of 
milk and honey, those who go out of their 
way to befriend a house brownie find their 
kindness repaid in unexpected ways. 
7
Skullery Maid. This Small skeleton walks 
on two legs but does not resemble any of the 
known humanoids in the Shadow Realm. Its 
head is a horse’s skull, and its eyes burn with 
white fire. It cleans, mends, and does simple 
chores in exchange for the ashes from the 
hearth, which it consumes with gusto.
8
Teacup Fairy. So named because they’re small 
enough to sleep in a teacup, this Tiny, winged 
fey cultivates tea and other herbs in the kitchen 
garden. They bite anyone who interferes with 
their work, gets in their way, or otherwise 
annoys them.  
9
Shadow Watchman. This guard blends neatly 
with the darkness, standing at its post atop 
ramparts, parapets, or even outside a chamber 
door, alert for any encroaching danger. It 
requires no sleep or food, making it the ideal 
guard. 
10
Umbral Butler. Punctual, tidy, and unfailingly 
polite, the umbral butler is the ideal head 
servant. If the other servants resent working 
beneath a creature made entirely of smoke and 
shadow, they never show it. 
11
Silent Squire. A humanoid with white skin, 
hair, and eyes, the silent squire is perfectly 
attentive to a knight’s every need, ready with 
shield, sword, or lance. Just don’t look too 
deeply into their eyes—lest they look back. 
12
GM’s choice from this list.
d12
Servants
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 221 ---
221
Appendices
SECRETS OF THE COURTS
d12
NPC Secrets 
1
Lightweight. They cannot hold their liquor, and 
they spill others’ secrets when drunk. 
2
Dalliance. They are carrying on a secret affair 
with someone scandalous.
3
Blackmailer. They know someone else’s secret 
and are blackmailing them to keep it quiet. 
4
Indebted. They are not nearly as wealthy as 
they appear to be. They are heavily in debt to 
unscrupulous moneylenders or are pawning 
off old family heirlooms in order to afford the 
newer fashions. 
5
Parricide. They killed a family member,  
either through an arranged killing or by their 
own hand. 
6
Imposter. They are not who they say they are. 
7
Conspirator. They are part of a plot to unseat 
the ruling monarch of their court. 
8
Allergy. They are deathly allergic to a common 
food. 
9
Sticky Fingers. They steal things. A lot. It could 
be small trinkets, large amounts of coin, or 
even priceless heirlooms. 
10
Star-Crossed. They are in love with someone 
they can never be with.
11
Illusory Appearance. They heavily modify their 
appearance with illusions and enchantments, 
far past what is considered socially acceptable. 
12
GM’s choice from this list.
TREASURES AND TRINKETS OF THE SHADOWS
d12 Treasures and Trinkets
1
Memento Mori Music Box. This palm-sized 
music box is made of etched silver. When 
wound, it plays an eerie and entrancing melody. 
The inside of the lid holds a lock of black hair 
set behind glass. 
2
Gemstone-Studded Fan. This fan is made from 
teal ostrich feathers, held together at the base 
by gilded ribs adorned with onyx cabochons. 
3
Bloodletting Brooch. This tiny and extremely 
sharp dagger is disguised as a fashionable 
accessory, hidden within the design of a silver 
and garnet brooch. It can easily be carried into 
an event where weapons are frowned upon. 
4
Pressed Memories. A 3-inch-square frame 
holds five different colored blossoms pressed 
between glass. Each blossom is an important 
memory, removed from the owner’s mind and 
preserved—and promptly forgotten.
5
Everlight. This handheld taper burns with a 
warm golden glow and never gets any shorter. 
6
Book of Secrets. A small journal bound in 
strange black leather, its pages are filled with 
fine writing in elegant calligraphy—and it’s 
completely encoded. It holds the secrets of 
dozens of luminaries and other important 
beings but requires the cypher to translate, and 
it resists magical means to bypass the code. 
7
Gilded Hummingbird Nest. This tiny accessory 
is created by harvesting a real hummingbird 
nest and coating it in gold, silver, or bronze—
eggs and all. It is then worn in the hair or hung 
by a chain around the neck. 
8
Kintsugi Teapot. An elegant black stoneware 
teapot that has been shattered and repaired 
with gold. 
9
Porcelain Unicorn. This tiny, delicate statuette 
bears an uncanny resemblance to the real thing, 
having perfectly rendered features. 
10
Shadowsphere Pendent. This marble-sized glass 
sphere holds a tiny, shifting wisp of shadow or 
black smoke. The wisp is constantly moving 
and changing.
11
Luminous Shard. This crystalline shard is 1 
foot long and sharp as a knife. It glows softly 
whenever music is played in its vicinity.
12
GM’s choice from this list.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 222 ---
222
Book of Ebon Tides
 
LORE OF THE BEARFOLK DRUIDS 
d12
Lore
1
The Cracked Oak Circle. This bearfolk grove is built around a massive, broken oak tree in the center of their 
settlement. Green and alive when the bearfolk settled here, the oak was split by dark lightning some decades 
ago from a darakhul sorcerer locked in battle with the grove’s elder. The sorcerer ultimately escaped, the elder 
died, and the tree never recovered. The bearfolk who train here are educated on the ways of the darakhul and 
their undead, all the better to destroy them. 
2
The Banshee-Haunted Grove. This tiny grove rests on the edge of an ancient battlefield. The site was initially 
chosen in order to watch for any undead, and when a banshee arose, she was immediately destroyed by 
the druids. However, she rose again the next night and was put down again—only to rise once more the 
night after that, and the night after that. After more than a week of this cycle, the bearfolk realized she had 
no intention of harming anyone within the grove if left alone, and they have instead taken to studying her 
pathways through the forests and fields in the hopes of discovering her origins and putting her to rest. 
3
The Circle of Song. The natural stone henge of the Circle of Song is a curiosity. Carved by the wind whistling 
through the hillsides, on a gusty day, the stones of the grove sing as air passes through dozens of holes and 
passageways. Its strange geography also seems to be a focus for magic, and the druids of the Circle of Song 
can channel their abilities and shape the natural flow of the Shadow Realm around them with ease. They have 
learned to harmonize their own singing with the songs of the stones, creating a unique form of ritual. 
4
The Moonshadow Grove. The druids here are attuned to the shadows and can pass between the pools of 
darkness with ease. Recently, however, something has infested their grove’s shadows, and those who attempt 
to step between them do not always reappear. 
5
The Moonfire Circle. In the center of this druid grove stands a brazier filled with cold-burning fire. The flame 
gives off a hollow white light and no warmth. It is harmless to living creatures from the mortal world but 
burns undead and those native to the Shadow Realm. Unfortunately, due to its nature, the druids have been 
unable to get the flame to grow or spread—it does not ignite wood, paper, or other flammables like true 
fire does. If they can learn how to manipulate it, it would be a powerful weapon indeed. So far, they have 
managed to keep its existence a secret from other Shadow Realm denizens, for surely such a tool would never 
be allowed to remain in bearfolk hands if the shadow fey had any say over it. But it is only a matter of time 
until word gets out and armies descend upon them. 
6
The Grove of the Three Rivers. This grove is built in and around a fork of three small tributaries that branch 
off from the Styx and empty into three small pools. The bearfolk tend to these shadowy waters, attempting to 
commune with the souls trapped within. They have met with moderate success and have thus far “rescued” 
roughly 20 souls, encouraging them to pass on in some cases and sending them off as Stygian shades to 
discover the manner of their death and the secrets of their life in others. The druids here call themselves 
shade whisperers and find that violence is not the only answer to the evils of the Shadow Realm. 
7
The Bent Tree Grove. The druids of this grove have created an intricate, living housing system created by 
coaxing the trees to grow in certain designs and directions. Though they are patient when it comes to home 
construction, the druids are merciless in their training of shadow gnawers and have no hesitation when it 
comes to cutting out the rot of shadow corruption wherever they find it. 
8
The Circle of the Seven Sisters. Established by seven sisters who arrived in the Shadow Realm from the 
Arbonesse Forest, the Circle of the Seven Sisters has a tenuous connection to the mortal world. A pool of 
clear, fresh water stands in the center of the grove. The pool is fiercely guarded, both as a source of untainted 
water and as a pathway between the realms. Creatures who submerge themselves completely in the pool 
and swim directly toward the bottom for 1 minute emerge in the mortal world in Riverbend within the 
Arbonesse. Following the pathway back into the Shadow Realm is trickier however since the way through the 
river is only open during certain phases of the moon. 
9
The Hearthollow Grove. Once a grove with many students and teachers, the Hearthollow Grove is now all 
but abandoned. Only the caretaker, Umalla, remains, and no bearfolk travel here anymore. Recently, even 
communication with Umalla has gone silent, and none of the bearfolk know the reason for the loss of this 
stronghold. 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 223 ---
223
Appendices
10
The Blackwater Grove. Nestled on the banks of a massive lake, the druids of the Blackwater Grove have pulled 
something curious coffin from the shadowy waters. The box is made of heavy iron and etched with runes, and 
though it seems old, it shows no signs of rust or other degradation. Still, something is within, and the bearfolk 
here argue about whether they should open it, guard it, or return it to the lake. So far, Ellar Dannos, the 
bearfolk leader of this grove, has been content to study it in quiet contemplation for endless hours. 
11
The Circle of the Gloomflower. Once a massive grove of gloomflowers, a large swath of forest was cleansed by 
bearfolk druids who established the Circle of the Gloomflower. Though a latent psychic scream still pierces 
the air periodically, an echo of a memory of darker times in the land, this grove has known relative peace 
for some time now. Not long ago, however, the patrolling druids discovered some strange silver seeds that 
buffeted them with corrupting visions when touched. The gloomflower grove may be returning—either 
through natural means or by someone’s hand. 
12
GM’s choice from this list.
Appendix: Shadow Realm Encounters 
You never can quite know what you’ll run across in the Shadow Realms. Walk softly.
ENCOUNTERS IN THE FORESTS (CR 1–4) 
d12
Encounter
1
The ruins of a crumbling stone palace stand before you. Partially collapsed walls hide whatever treasures may 
lie within. PCs who indulge their curiosity and enter the ruins are attacked by two cobblestorms (see Tome of 
Beasts), masquerading as the stone floor. 
2
A gruesome scene of violence lies in the clearing just ahead. Several corpses picked entirely clean lay on the 
ground, but one in the clearing center is covered in dozens of black butterflies. The butterflies are a death 
butterfly swarm (see Tome of Beasts) that attacks if the corpses are disturbed.
3
Painful groans alert the PCs to a sable elf (see Chapter 9) bound to a tree. The lunarchidna (see Tome of 
Beasts 2) that wrapped the elf waits above in the tree to ambush any rescuers.
4
A small fire alerts you to a camp occupied by eight shadow fey forest hunters (see Tome of Beasts). The fey are 
happy to share their fire with polite travelers and warn them that an unusual amount of lycanthropes have 
been seen in this region of the forest.
5
A giant elk bearing a far darrig (see Tome of Beasts) bounds onto the path. The far darrig is under orders to 
guard this path and demands the PCs turn back. If the PCs do not comply, both the elk and its rider attack.
6
The PC with the highest passive Perception hears a tiny voice call out from the ground. The voice belongs to 
an enchanted snail who would like to be placed on a tall branch just above. A character who helps the snail 
gains the benefits of the bless spell for 24 hours. A character who harms or kills the snail has the penalty of a 
bane spell for 24 hours. 
7
The PCs step into a grove covered in booby traps left by a tribe of moss lurkers (see Tome of Beasts). 
8
A bedraggled veteran stumbles onto the path and begs the PCs to help end its torment. The veteran slew a 
bird while hunting for food and has become the target of a vengeful pombero (see Tome of Beasts)
9
A clearing in the forest admits the shining silver light of the moons above. In the center of the clearing stands 
a solitary gloomflower (see Creature Codex), illuminated by a beam of moonlight.
10
A shadow blight (see Creature Codex) has found its way to this part of the forest, searching for dead trees to 
infect with its taint. It stands motionless next to one such tree, waiting for the PCs to pass. 
11
A lumbering bear comes into view. It raises its head, and its deer-like antlers and burning red eyes mark it as 
more than a normal bear. The spawn of Chernobog (see Creature Codex) roars and attacks.
12
A wolpertinger (see Creature Codex) sits in the party’s path. It hops once, then twice, off the path and into the 
underbrush. If the party follows, it leads them to their destination in half the time. If the party attacks, it flees. 
d12
Lore
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 224 ---
224
Book of Ebon Tides
ENCOUNTERS IN THE FORESTS (CR 5–9) 
d12
Encounter
1
A trio of deathwisps (see Tome of Beasts) begins 
to stalk the party. These wisps are born of three 
murdered shadow fey who mistakenly believe 
the PCs are the adventurers responsible for 
their death.
2
The party is approached by a bearfolk druid 
(see Chapter 9), tracking a creature corrupted 
by shadow. The druid offers the party 
information or a safe place to shelter for the 
night in exchange for assistance in hunting  
the beast.
3
A chorus of barks heralds the arrival of two 
hounds of the night (see Tome of Beasts) 
followed by a keeper of hounds (see Chapter 
9). The keeper is training the dogs to hunt 
humanoids, and they are delighted to sick the 
dogs on such vulnerable prey.
4
Haunting rustling carries on the wind as  
two birch sirens (see Chapter 9) have  
flanked the party, hoping to ensnare them  
with enchantment.
5
The corpse of an enormous bear lies in the 
clearing ahead, ensnared by a bear trap. The 
trap is a gnarkjak (see Tome of Beasts), hoping 
to prey on any creature inspecting the corpse.
6
A chorus of voices leads you to an overgrown 
black chapel. Inside, four owl harpies (see 
Tome of Beasts) sing hymns praising Alquam 
(see Tome of Beasts), the demon lord of night.
7
The PCs are ambushed by a pair of malphas 
(see Tome of Beasts), assassins ordered to kill the 
party at the behest of their mysterious shadow 
fey lord.
8
The path ahead is filled with black  
webbing. A successful DC 18  
Wisdom (Survival) check  
reveals these webs aren’t from  
a spider, and if the DC is  
exceeded by 5 or more, it is  
identified as webbing from a  
somberweave (see Tome of Beasts 2).
9
The PCs hear sobbing cries for help. If they 
investigate, they discover a shadow fey trapped 
in the cage atop the head of a lumbering 
chuhaister (see Creature Codex). The giant 
entered the Shadow Realm to destroy the 
fey on their home turf and has been harrying 
nearby villages.  
10
A pile of armor and other belongings can be 
seen through the trees. The items lie beneath 
a goliath longlegs (see Creature Codex) that 
attacks with its Paralytic Web when the PCs are 
within range.  
11
An alseid grovekeeper (see Tome of Beasts) and 
three alseid (see Tome of Beasts) circle the party 
and demand to know why they are in their 
woods. 
12
Three mylings approach the party for help in 
finding their final rest. They lead the PCs to a 
dense copse of corpse-white trees, where they 
attempt to drag the PCs into the ground.
d12
Encounter
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 225 ---
225
Appendices
ENCOUNTERS IN THE FORESTS (CR 10+) 
d12
Encounter
1
Profane chanting comes from the grove just 
beyond where five druids conduct an evil ritual 
under the guidance of a lunar devil (see Tome of 
Beasts). If the devil is destroyed, the corrupting 
enchantments on the druids are broken, and 
they are horrified by their actions. 
2
A wounded berstuc (see Tome of Beasts) 
stumbles onto the path with two treants 
following closely behind. The berstuc pretends 
to be a treant, running from the shadow-
corrupted treants, and begs the party to help 
fight off the pursuers. If the PCs fall for this 
trick and the berstuc survives, it immediately 
turns its attack on the party. 
3
Baying hounds and rallying horn blasts ring 
through the night as the Lord of the Hunt (see 
Tome of Beasts) passes through the wood. Every 
humanoid that can hear the horn must succeed 
on a DC 15 Charisma saving throw or be 
compelled to follow the lord through the night. 
4
The party happens upon a mavka (see Tome of 
Beasts), setting fire to a huge swath of forest. 
She gives the party one chance to walk away, no 
questions asked, but attacks if they interfere.
5
The earth groans as something massive moves 
far below your feet, sudden tremors rock the 
ground, and ancient trees fall into a widening 
chasm in the earth. The PCs must succeed on a 
DC 18 Strength (Athletics) check to outrun the 
fissure, or they fall 100 feet into the dark. 
6
The sounds of tinkling music and laughter 
draw you toward a garden party on the lawns  
of a glittering marble estate. The shadow 
fey and gnomish nobles in attendance are 
delighted to introduce inquiring PCs to the 
host, the Mistress of Midnight Teeth (see 
Tome of Beasts).
7
You catch glimpses of dark figures just beyond 
the tree line. PCs who take a closer look 
discover the figures are overgrown stone statues 
that look remarkably like the characters.
8
Tinkling music comes from above as a breeze 
stirs through the trees. You see hundreds  
of chimes made from humanoid teeth  
are hanging from the tall branches.
9
An ancient mandriano (see Creature Codex) and 
three mandriano (see Creature Codex) lurk near 
a forgotten burial ground. When the PCs pass 
nearby, they attack. When one of the PCs dies 
or the ancient mandriano drops to 25 hp, it uses 
its Call the Dead ability to raise the PC’s corpse 
or one of the bodies in the burial ground. 
10
A bearfolk chieftain (see Creature Codex) and 
four bearfolk (see Tome of Beasts) charge into 
view, pursuing three umbral vampires (see 
Tome of Beasts). If the PCs aid the bearfolk 
in destroying the vampires, he thanks them 
with gifts of fresh food and water and an open 
invitation to his grove. 
11
A ravenfolk doom croaker (see Tome of Beasts) 
and two ravenfolk warriors (see Tome of Beasts) 
make their way through the forest. They ask 
to accompany the PCs for a time and share a 
campfire before going their own way. 
12
A swarm of nyctli (see Tome of Beasts 2) stalks 
the party for as long as it can without being 
spotted, spying for their mistress. If spotted, 
the swarm attacks. 
d12
Encounter
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 226 ---
226
Book of Ebon Tides
 
d12
Encounter
1
A trio of shadow fey bandits (see Chapter 
9) are camped beside a ramshackle dock on 
the edge of a river. They offer to ferry the PCs 
across the river for a hefty sum of coin. If the 
party refuses, the bandits attack, planning to 
loot their corpses before pushing them into 
the river.
2
A group of merchants (commoners) stands 
arguing in a cluster just in front of a stone 
bridge, crossing a black river. A river spirit 
(see Chapter 9) has recently taken possession 
of the bridge and won’t allow anyone to pass 
until a champion defeats it in single combat. 
3
The sound of flapping wings fills the air as 
three stryx (see Tome of Beasts) land on the 
rocky shore ahead. The stryx are collecting 
information for the Moonlit King (see Tome 
of Beasts and Chapter 6), and they ask the PCs 
a series of odd questions before flying away.
4
The PC with the highest passive Perception 
notices that two swarms of ravens have 
been following the party for the last hour. If 
the party does nothing, the ravens continue 
to watch the party while they remain in the 
area. If the party harms or interferes with the 
ravens, a keeper of ravens (see Chapter 9) 
appears to dole out justice.
5
One of the PCs has unwittingly caught the 
eye of a jealous shadow fey noble who sends a 
sluagh swarm (see Tome of Beasts) to dispose 
of them.
6
A ball of gentle blue light appears in the 
distance, parting the oppressive gloom. It 
patiently bobs in place as if waiting for you to 
follow. The light is a friendly witchlight (see 
Tome of Beasts) that guides the party safely to 
their destination if followed. 
7
The PCs unwittingly catch the notice of a woe 
siphon (see Tome of Beasts 2) that begins to 
stalk them. The party begins to experience 
an increasing series of annoyances and 
misfortunes until the woe siphon grows 
strong enough to attack or the PCs catch on to 
the presence of the creature.
8
A green hag disguised as a lost traveler 
approaches the party asking for help. If the 
situation turns hostile, four nyctli (see Tome 
of Beasts 2) spring out of hiding to help their 
mistress.
9
Three shadow skeletons (see Creature Codex) 
lie motionless beside the black waters of a 
shadowy river, waiting to ambush travelers. 
10
A hungry lou caracohl (see Creature Codex) has 
extended its six tongues in a 60-foot-radius 
around itself. As the PCs pass near, they 
must make a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw 
or become restrained (as per the creature’s 
Sticky Tongues ability). If all the PCs avoid the 
tongues, it attacks. 
11
A glass gator waits at the edge of the water, 
nearly invisible in the gloom. 
12
Three miremals (see Tome of Beasts) offer to 
lead the party safely through the swamp but 
instead lure them deeper into the muck and 
mire until the PCs are lost and confused, and 
then they attack. 
ENCOUNTERS IN THE MARSHES AND RIVERS (CR 1–4)
d12
Encounter
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 227 ---
227
Appendices
 
d12
Encounter
1
A dwarf stumbles out of a nearby bank of reeds 
and professes to have no memory of who they 
are or what they are doing here. This dwarf is 
one of many victims of a local memory thief 
(see Chapter 9) who has been stalking victims 
and staging them to think they’ve fallen into 
memory-leeching waters of the realm.
2
After miles of fetid bogs and brackish water, 
you spot a clear blue pond full of fresh water. 
The pond is a wandering pond (see Chapter 
9) disguised as the only drinkable water 
amidst the marsh.
3
A shadow fey enchantress (see Tome of Beasts) 
suddenly appears before you in a puff of 
smoke. The enchantress was recently banished 
from court and is interested in recruiting the 
PCs to help restore her position. 
4
Far in the distance, the party sees a flickering 
purple figure, depositing something on a 
marshy bank before it disappears. PCs who 
investigate the spot find a series of stones 
arranged to spell “Behind You.” The shadow 
beast (see Tome of Beasts) who left the message 
materializes to attack. 
5
Characters who succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom 
(Perception) check are alerted to the sound 
of squelching boots. Characters who fail 
this check are surprised as a group of three 
redcaps (see Tome of Beasts) spring to attack 
from the reeds. 
6
Through the dense mist, you see a hunched 
figure, rooting through the mud. If the PCs 
attract any attention to themselves, the 
faceless wanderer (see Tome of Beasts 2) moves 
to attack.
7
Sticking out of the water, you spot a black 
crystalline monolith (see Tome of Beasts 2) 
covered in bizarre symbols. Anyone who 
speaks Void Speech recognizes the symbols as 
part of a prophecy heralding the return of an 
elder god. 
8
You stumble upon a series of flat rocks laid out 
with a sumptuous feast. PCs who examine the 
scene notice a bright-yellow flower sprouted 
beside the table. The flower is a swamp 
lily (see Tome of Beasts 2), and the feast is its 
poisonous trap.
ENCOUNTERS IN THE MARSHES AND RIVERS (CR 5–9)
9
As the PCs travel near a river, the waters churn 
and erupt as a shadow river lord (see Creature 
Codex) returns from the mortal world with a 
freshly reaped soul. 
10
A beautiful elven woman steps out of the 
shadows between trees. Her edges are hazy 
and indistinct, but her eyes are intense and 
beguiling. The moon nymph (see Creature 
Codex) smiles and attacks. 
11
As the PCs travel through the marshland, 
flickering ghostlights and shimmering clouds 
can be seen, always in the distance. A foxfire 
ooze creeps closer to the party, using its 
natural camouflage to approach unseen. 
12
Partially submerged ruins jut from the mud 
and water. An elder shadow drake (see Tome 
of Beasts) does not take kindly to the party 
intruding into its territory, and it attacks. 
d12
Encounter
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 228 ---
228
Book of Ebon Tides
 
d12
Encounter
1
From its hiding place, a domovoi (see Tome of 
Beasts) calls to the party, demanding that they 
pay a fine for trespassing on private property. 
The estate that once stood here is long gone, 
but the domovoi will not be pacified unless it 
receives something of value as payment. 
2
An irate molefolk (see Chapter 9) pops out 
of the ground, demanding to know why the 
PCs are making such a racket right above their 
home. 
3
The PCs run into two darakhul (see Tome of 
Beasts), hunting for fresh meat.
4
A shadhavar (see Tome of Beasts) has just 
escaped its cruel shadow fey master and 
tentatively approaches the party, hoping they 
can help it get to safety.
5
You come upon a circle of tall stones arranged 
in a circle. Something sparkles in the grass at 
the center. The sparkling object in a shiny rock 
laying atop a carnivorous sod (see Tome of 
Beasts 2) disguised as grass.
6
Tucked amidst the rolling hills is a gated 
square surrounded by high stone walls. PCs 
who enter (the gate lock has long since rusted 
away) find the remains of a monastery garden 
kept by a lonely dancing foliage  
(see Tome of Beasts 2).
ENCOUNTERS IN THE PLAINS, HILLS, AND MOUNTAINS (CR 1–4)
d12
Encounter
7
Glass marbles are hurled at you from twisted 
briars just beyond. An orphan of the black 
(see Tome of Beasts 2) creeps through the 
brambles, hoping the party wants to play.
8
Two shadow fey forest hunters (see Tome of 
Beasts) come running down the hillside toward 
you, pursued by an oozing black overshadow 
(see Tome of Beasts 2).
9
A dark father (see Creature Codex) has begun 
trailing the party. It is not hostile until 
attacked, and it instead watches them from a 
distance, though always within view. 
10
Six bucca (see Tome of Beasts) emerge from a 
nearby cave to attack the passing PCs. 
11
A silent, cloaked figure approaches the party 
through the gloom. It does not answer any 
shouted inquiries, nor does it remove its hood. 
The figure is a mindrot thrall (see Tome of 
Beasts) that continues toward the group until 
it is close enough to engulf most of the party 
with its Acid Breath. 
12
A massive, horned beetle rushes toward the 
party. The beetle is actually a skitterhaunt (see 
Tome of Beasts), infesting the carcass of a giant 
beetle. 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 229 ---
229
Appendices
 
d12
Encounter
1
A sudden explosion draws attention to a 
ramshackle building—and it is engulfed in 
flames. Two squabbling gnomish distillers 
(see Chapter 9) run outside their laboratory 
and attack each other if the party does not 
intervene.
2
A knight of shadows (see Chapter 9) has 
grown bored while patrolling the region and 
approaches the party for some entertainment 
(torment).
3
You nearly trip over a human sleeping in the 
grass. A rose golem (see Chapter 9) guards 
the ruins of a nearby estate and has put several 
recent passersby to sleep.
4
Raucous laughter and music drift down the 
hillside from a camp of 13 satyrs. The satyrs 
are happy to wine and dine the party but 
intend to slit their throats and rob any PCs 
who let down their guard.
5
The PCs run into two iron ghouls  
(see Tome of Beasts), hunting for fresh meat.
6
On the hill just beyond, you can see the 
smashed remains of a massive stone gate. PCs 
who succeed on a DC 15 Intelligence (Arcana) 
check know that this gate was once a giant 
portal to the mortal world. Only a creature 
of immense power could have completely 
destroyed such a structure. 
7
Sharp hissing is the only warning given before 
the party is swarmed by two umbral vampires 
(see Tome of Beasts).
8
Sounds of clattering and pickaxes alert you to 
a mining operation just over the next ridge. 
PCs who investigate find a band of darakhul 
led by a darakhul captain (see Tome of Beasts), 
forcing a band of enslaved commoners to dig 
out a collapsed cavern.
9
A shadow fey knight of the road (see Creature 
Codex), riding a lou carcohl (see Creature 
Codex), blocks the PCs’ path and demands 
payment for passage through her territory. If 
the PCs refuse, she and her mount attack. 
10
A moon drake (see Creature Codex) soars 
overhead. If the party follows it, they lose sight 
of it at an ancient circle of standing stones. 
ENCOUNTERS IN THE PLAINS, HILLS, AND MOUNTAINS (CR 5–9)
d12
Encounter
11
Six flesh reavers (see Creature Codex) have 
managed to get free of their handlers and are 
hunting the hillsides for living flesh. They 
converge on the party as soon as they are 
spotted. 
12
A portion of the sod shifts and moves toward 
the party as a corrupting ooze (see Tome of 
Beasts) slinks along the ground to attack. 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 230 ---
230
Book of Ebon Tides
 
d12
Encounter
1
A group of commoners led by a bearfolk 
thunderstomper (see Chapter 9) approaches 
from farther down the road. The bearfolk is 
escorting this group of settlers to the Moonlit 
Glades and offers to bring the PCs along.
2
A moonshadow catcher (see Chapter 9) 
and their three shadow goblin minions (see 
Creature Codex) ambush the PCs, attempting to 
incapacitate them and take them to a local fey 
looking for test subjects. 
3
Hooting and jeering comes from just ahead 
where a crowd of goblins watches two shadow 
goblin chieftains fight. If the PCs watch the 
action, the losing chieftain offers the party a 
fortune to help him kill the winning chieftain. 
If the party accepts the offer, four shadow 
goblins (see Creature Codex) loyal to the 
winning chieftain join the fight.
ENCOUNTERS ON THE ROAD (CR 1–4)
d12
Encounter
4
A sable elf hierophant (see Chapter 9), 
escorted by two sable elf (see Chapter 9) 
handmaidens, takes an interest in one of the 
characters. She extends an invitation for the 
PC to visit her at her patron’s mansion.
5
A rowdy pair of shadow fey duelists (see Tome 
of Beasts), escorted by a shadow fey guardian 
(see Tome of Beasts), waylay any travelers they 
meet along the road.
6
The road before you is stained with slashes of 
black-crusted blood. The grisly trail leads to 
a flipped-over cart that has been torn apart. 
There are no signs of the cart’s owners.
7
A solitary ravenfolk (see Tome of Beasts) dressed 
in black robes waves down the party. It politely 
asks for one of the PCs to sing a song. If the 
PCs oblige, the ravenfolk listens, whispers, 
“That’s not the one,” and hands the singer 
some gold for their time.
8
A recently exiled scrofin (see Tome of Beasts 2) 
sits drinking on the side of the road. It waves 
over passersbys, eager to share its bottle and 
discuss its troubles with fey politics.  
9
A piercing shriek fills the air and continues 
unabated until the PCs investigate or leave the 
area. If the PCs investigate, they find a young 
basket-carrying shadow fey unconscious 
beside an uprooted great mandrake (see 
Creature Codex). The mandrake continues to use 
its Shriek ability and attacks any creature that 
come within 10 feet of it. 
10
An inebriated dhampir (see Creature Codex) 
stumbles upon the party and begs their help 
in finding his signet ring, which he lost in a 
drunken scuffle with a shadow fey. 
11
A dirty and scarred book lies abandoned on 
the side of the road. It might be a spellbook 
but will require more study to decode. An 
inkling (see Creature Codex) hides within, 
waiting until it is put in a bag with other books 
to explore its new surroundings and devour 
the ink on their pages. 
12
A quiet, bookish shadow fey recently passed 
away, and his lantern dragonette (see Tome of 
Beasts) found itself on the streets. It approaches 
the party, asking for candles it can eat. If 
they’re kind and feed it, it accompanies them 
for a time. 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 231 ---
231
Appendices
ENCOUNTERS ON THE ROAD (CR 5–9) 
d12
Encounter
1
The imposing figure of a monolith champion 
(see Tome of Beasts) greets you as it paces in 
front of a shrine just off the road.
2
A fardorocha (see Tome of Beasts 2) approaches 
the party, bearing an invitation to a nearby fey 
estate.
3
A fey revenant (see Tome of Beasts 2) has been 
given leave to hunt humanoids as a birthday 
present from the Queen of Night and Magic. 
The PCs are selected as the revenant’s first 
quarry.
4
Just ahead, villagers crowd around a hastily 
constructed stage. The people look on in 
horror as a jack of strings (see Tome of Beasts 2) 
uses their magic to force a young man to beat 
himself.
5
A carriage with blackened windows pulls 
up alongside the PCs. Its occupants are two 
lunarians (see Tome of Beasts 2), hoping to get 
directions to the closest umbral tailor (see 
Chapter 9). The lunarians hope the tailor can 
cure them of their curse, but they welcome any 
interested PCs to join them on their journey.
6
A gargantuan wall of thorns completely blocks 
the road. The PCs must leave the safety of the 
road to go around the thorns or confront the 
thornheart guardian (see Tome of Beasts 2) 
that has created the blockage.
7
After a long stretch of travel through the cold 
fog, you see a stone guardhouse built along  
the roadside. It appears to be empty and to  
be a perfect place to rest. If the PCs take a  
rest in the guardhouse, they are attacked  
mid-sleep by one of the walls, which is a 
walled horror (see Tome of Beasts 2).
8
Thunderous hoofbeats come from behind as 
two knights of shadow (see Chapter 9) ride 
to destroy a trio of werynax (see Tome of Beasts 
2), causing havoc on the road up ahead. PCs 
who assist the knights in their hunt have the 
opportunity to garner favor with the courts.
9
A karakura (see Creature Codex) lurks in the 
shadows just off the road. As the PCs pass 
by, it uses its Shroud of Darkness ability on 
the last PC in the group. Since the PCs are 
already in the Shadow Realm, if the PC fails 
their Charisma saving throw, they are instead 
engulfed in an invulnerable cocoon of shadow 
until the effect ends. 
d12
Encounter
10
A mirror hag (see Tome of Beasts) has begun 
plaguing a nearby shadow fey town, delighting 
in causing chaos among the self-absorbed 
fey nobles. The hag disguises herself as an 
elderly fey and targets the PC with the highest 
Charisma score with her Reconfiguring Curse. 
11
A miserable-looking dog approaches the 
party. The dog is a hulking welp (see Tome of 
Beasts) in search of friendship. If the PCs treat 
it kindly, it accompanies them as long as they 
allow it. If they harm or are otherwise cruel 
to it, it uses its Unleashed Emotion ability to 
grow in size and then attacks. 
12
A kikimora (see Tome of Beasts) has recently 
been forcibly evicted from the home it was 
plaguing. It spots the party and begs them to 
help it find new lodgings, where it will cause 
misery and destruction. 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 232 ---
232
Book of Ebon Tides
ENCOUNTERS ON THE ROAD (CR 10+) 
d12
Encounter
1
The roads buckle beneath your feet as a 
flickering, gigantic figure phases into view. 
The figure is an irate shadow giant (see Tome 
of Beasts 2), looking for any excuse to take out 
its frustration.
2
The mists part to reveal an abandoned village 
just off the road. The villagers fell prey to an 
incarnate gloom (see Tome of Beasts 2), eager 
to make the PCs its next meal.
3
A disguised luck leech (see Tome of Beasts 2) 
approaches the PCs, challenging them to a 
“friendly” game of chance. If the luck leech 
begins to lose, it chooses to attack the victor 
and rob them.
4
A gleaming repository (see Tome of Beasts 2) 
emerges from the mists, bearing an invitation 
for the PCs to dine with its psychic vampire 
(see Tome of Beasts 2) master. If the party 
accepts, the repository leads them to the 
vampire’s nearby subterranean estate.
5
A team of deep gnomes has pulled off the 
side of the road to repair their broken steam 
golem (see Tome of Beasts). The golem is a gift 
to the Queen of Night and Magic (see Tome of 
Beasts), and the gnomes are desperate for help 
repairing it.
6
Screaming comes from just ahead as a squad 
of four darakhul are being chased by a hungry 
gug (see Tome of Beasts).
7
Trails of smoke drift toward you from a 
burned-down village. Anyone who approaches 
sees a mountain of bodies blazing at its center. 
The village is actually an illusory haunt, and the 
bodies are a corpse mound (see Tome of Beasts), 
which attacks anyone who comes close.
8
A being of shining golden light suddenly 
falls from the sky and lands before you. The 
Radiant Lord (see Chapter 9) introduces 
themselves and politely asks if the PCs have 
seen any locations in their travels that would 
be fit for constructing an observation tower.
9
Hoofbeats can be heard as a vampire 
patrician (see Creature Codex), his three 
vampire spawn escorts, and their mounts 
draw near to the PCs on the road. The vampire 
patrician will stop and exchange pleasantries 
with the party, for he’s interested in their 
business in the Shadow Realm. The vampires 
are not hostile and only attack if attacked first. 
10
An enraged shadow fey ambassador (see 
Creature Codex) and her dream squire (see 
Creature Codex) stand at the side of the road, 
robbed of their goods. The ambassador hails 
the PCs and demands they pursue the three 
shadow fey knights of the road (see Creature 
Codex) and retrieve their stolen belongings. 
11
A dullahan (see Tome of Beasts) gallops down 
the road, preparing to cut down the party and 
any who stand in their way. 
12
A fear smith (see Tome of Beasts), accompanied 
by a shadow fey guardian (see Tome of Beasts), 
confronts the characters in a dark alley or 
lonely road. 
d12
Encounter
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 233 ---
233
Appendices
Appendix: Shadow Realm  
Creatures by Terrain
A non-exhaustive list of possible creatures that you may encounter in the Shadow Realm is provided here, 
organized by terrain and challenge rating and with options provided from the core rules and from Tome of Beasts 
(TOB), Creature Codex (CC), and Tome of Beasts 2 (TOB2)—and from this volume, Book of Ebon Tides (see Chapter 9). 
FORESTS
CR 0
Awakened Shrub
Badger
Commoner
Deer
Owl
CR 1/8
Bandit
Giant Weasel
Kobold
Leonino (CC)
Mastiff
Poisonous Snake
Stirge
Stryx (TOB)
CR 1/4
Blink Dog
Boar
Elk
Erina Scrounger (TOB)
Forest Falcon (TOB2)
Giant Badger
Giant Bat
Giant Owl
Giant Poisonous Snake
Giant Wolf Spider
Goblin
Grove Bear (TOB2)
Nyctli (TOB2)
Pixie
Pseudodragon
Shadow Fey (Elves) (TOB)
Sootwing Giant Moth (CC)
Sprite
Suturefly (TOB)
Swarm of Ravens
Treacle (TOB)
Witchlight (TOB)
Wolf
Wolpertinger (CC)
CR 1/2
Alseid (TOB)
Black Bear
Foxin (CC)
Giant Wasp
Hobgoblin
Lantern Dragonette (TOB)
Ravenfolk Scout (TOB)
Sable Elf (see Chapter 9)
Satyr
Swarm of Insects
Woodwose (CC)
Worg
CR 1
Albino Death Weasel (CC)
Brown Bear
Bugbear
Bulbous Violet (TOB2)
Carbuncle (CC)
Child of the Briar (TOB)
Crimson Drake (TOB)
Dire Wolf
Dogmole (TOB)
Dryad
Erina Defender (TOB)
Giant Spider
Giant Toad
Harpy
Leshy (TOB)
Molefolk (see Chapter 9)
Moss Lurker (TOB)
Serpentine Lamia (CC)
Shadow Blight (CC)
Shadow Fey Bandit (see Chapter 9)
Shockwing Giant Moth (CC)
Wirbeln Fungi (CC)
CR 2
Ankheg
Awakened Tree
Bandit Captain
Cave Bear
Centaur
Ettercap
Forest Drake (CC)
Giant Boar
Giant Elk
Giant Vampire Bat (CC)
Green Dragon Wyrmling
Grick
Lunarchidna, Lesser (TOB2)
Ogre
Pegasus
Rageipede (CC)
Shadhavar (TOB)
Shadow Goblin Chieftain (see 
Chapter 9)
Shadow Skeleton (CC)
Swarm of Poisonous Snakes
Wererat (Lycanthrope)
White Stag (CC)
Will-o’-wisp
Wind Weasel (CC)
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 234 ---
234
Book of Ebon Tides
CR 3
Alseid Grovekeeper (TOB)
Amphiptere (TOB)
Bagiennik (TOB)
Basilisk
Bearfolk (TOB)
Duskthorn Dryad (TOB)
Fang of the Great Wolf (Worg) (CC)
Far Darrig (TOB)
Giant Albino Bat (CC)
Goat-Man (TOB)
Gold Dragon Wyrmling
Green Hag
Korrigan (CC)
Millitaur (TOB)
Moonshadow Catcher  
(see Chapter 9)
Owlbear
Peluda Drake (CC)
Phase Spider
Pombero (TOB)
Prismatic Beetle Swarm (TOB)
Ravenfolk Warrior (TOB)
Veteran
Vine Golem (TOB2)
Werewolf (Lycanthrope)
CR 4
Amber Ooze (TOB2)
Azeban (CC)
Bearfolk Ley Walker (see Chapter 9)
Dancing Foliage (TOB2)
Death Butterfly Swarm (TOB)
Deathcap Myconid (TOB)
Domovoi (TOB)
Forest Marauder (TOB)
Lunarchidna, Greater (TOB2)
Overshadow (TOB2)
Sap Demon (TOB)
Wereboar (Lycanthrope)
CR 5
Asanbosam (TOB)
Centaur Chieftain (CC)
Gorgon
Lindwurm (TOB)
Mandriano (CC)
Moon Drake (CC)
Owl Harpy (TOB)
Quickstep (CC)
Ravenala (TOB)
Ravenfolk Doom Croaker (TOB)
Razorleaf (CC)
Revenant
Sable Elf Hierophant  
(see Chapter 9)
Serpentine Lamia Matriarch (CC)
Shadow Fey Forest Hunter (Elves) 
(TOB)
Shambling Mound
Troll
Unicorn
Vila (TOB)
Werebear (Lycanthrope)
Xiphus (CC)
Zmey Headling (TOB)
CR 6
Bearfolk Druid (see Chapter 9)
Bloom Hydra (TOB2)
Child of Yggdrasil (CC)
Death Butterfly Swarm, Greater 
(TOB)
Green Knight of the Woods (CC)
Gulon (CC)
Likho (TOB)
Piasa (CC)
Redcap (TOB)
Transcendent Lunarchidna (TOB2)
Weeping Treant (TOB)
Wolf Spirit Swarm (TOB)
CR 7
Chuhaister (CC)
Goliath Longlegs (CC)
Shadow Beast (TOB)
Shadow Drake, Elder (TOB)
Shadow Fey Enchantress (Elves) 
(TOB)
Ulnorya (TOB2)
CR 8
Arborcyte (CC)
Dragonleaf Tree (TOB)
Green Dragon, Young
Mandriano, Ancient (CC)
Savager (TOB)
Vines of Nemthyr (CC)
CR 9
Bukavac (TOB)
Flame-Scourged Scion (CC)
Ghostwalk Spider (TOB)
Knight of Shadows (see Chapter 9)
Kulmking (CC)
Shadow Fey Ambassador (Elves) 
(CC)
Shadow River Lord (CC)
Treant
Wickerman (CC)
Wraith Bear (TOB2)
CR 10
Birch Siren (see Chapter 9)
Chameleon Hydra (TOB2)
Colláis (TOB2)
Foxfire Ooze (CC)
Gold Dragon, Young
Nyctli Swarm (TOB2)
CR 11 
Ychen Bannog (TOB)
CR 12
Derendian Moth Abomination 
(TOB2)
Bear King (Fey Lord) (TOB)
Reynard (Fey Lord) (CC)
Horned Serpent (CC)
CR 14
Zmey (TOB)
CR 15
Green Dragon, Adult
CR 16
Berchta (Fey Lady) (CC)
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 235 ---
235
Appendices
GRASSLANDS AND PLAINS 
CR 0
Commoner
Deer
Eagle
Goat
Vulture
CR 1/8
Flying Snake
Giant Weasel
Kobold
Poisonous Snake
Pony
Stirge
CR 1/4
Alliumite (CC)
Boar
Elk
Erina Scrounger (TOB)
Giant Poisonous Snake
Giant Wolf Spider
Goblin
Riding Horse
Sable Elf (see Chapter 9)
Shadow Fey (Elves) (TOB)
Sootwing Giant Moth (CC)
Witchlight (TOB)
Wolf
CR 1/2
Burrowling (TOB)
Cockatrice
Giant Goat
Giant Wasp
Hobgoblin
Swarm of Insects
Worg
CR 1
Bugbear
Erina Defender (TOB)
Giant Eagle
Giant Vulture
Goblin Boss
Hippogriff
Scarecrow
Shockwing Giant Moth (CC)
Wind Dragon Wyrmling (TOB)
CR 2
Ankheg
Centaur
Eala (TOB)
Giant Boar
Giant Elk
Giant Vampire Bat (CC)
Griffon
Ogre
Pegasus
Roggenwolf (CC)
Shadhavar (CC)
Shadow Goblin Chieftain  
(see Chapter 9)
CR 3
Darakhul (Ghoul) (TOB)
Fang of the Great Wolf (Worg) (CC)
Far Darrig (TOB)
Ghost Boar (CC)
Giant Albino Bat (CC)
Manticore
Phase Spider
Veteran 
CR 4
Death Butterfly Swarm (TOB)
Frostveil (TOB)
Mammoth 
Mngwa (TOB)
Overshadow (TOB2)
Serpopard (TOB)
Tusked Skyfish (TOB)
Wereboar (Lycanthrope)
CR 5
Bulette
Centaur Chieftain (CC)
Gorgon
Hound of the Night (TOB)
Sleipnir (CC)
Three-Headed Cobra (CC)
Tusked Crimson Ogre (CC)
Vapor Lynx (TOB)
Wandering Pond (see Chapter 9)
CR 6
Bearfolk Druid (see Chapter 9)
Chimera
Cyclops
Death Butterfly Swarm, Greater 
(TOB)
Dracotaur (CC)
Ghost Boar, Elder (CC)
Werynax (TOB2)
Wind Dragon, Young (TOB)
Wolf Spirit Swarm (TOB)
Zouyu (TOB2)
CR 7
Giant Sloth (CC)
CR 8
Arborcyte (CC)
Degenerate Titan (TOB)
Neophron Demon (CC)
Oliphaunt (CC)
Savager (TOB)
Vines of Nemthyr (CC)
CR 9
Fulminar (CC)
Kulmking (CC)
CR 10
Foxfire Ooze (CC)
Gold Dragon, Young
CR 12
Horned Serpent (CC)
CR 13
Bonespitter (TOB2)
Noth-Norren (TOB2)
CR 17
Gold Dragon, Adult
Wind Dragon, Adult (TOB)
CR 20+
Jotun Giant (TOB)
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 236 ---
236
Book of Ebon Tides
HILLS AND MOUNTAINS 
CR 0
Eagle
Goat
Raven
Vulture
CR 1/8
Bandit
Blood Hawk
Giant Moth (CC)
Giant Weasel
Guard
Mule
Shroud (TOB)
Stirge
CR 1/4
Azza Gremlin (TOB)
Boar
Elk
Erina Scrounger (TOB)
Giant Owl
Giant Wolf Spider
Goblin
Living Shade (CC)
Panther
Pseudodragon
Shadow Fey (Elves) (TOB)
Skull Lantern (CC)
Snow Cat (CC)
Sootwing Giant Moth (CC)
Swarm of Bats
Swarm of Ravens
Witchlight (TOB)
Wolf
CR 1/2
Alkonost (CC)
Bucca (TOB)
Fraughashar (TOB)
Giant Goat
Hobgoblin
Orc
Ravenfolk Scout (TOB)
Skin bat (TOB)
Storm Spirit (CC)
Void Cultist (CC)
Worg
CR 1
Brown Bear
Copper Dragon Wyrmling
Dark Servant (Dark Folk) (CC)
Dire Wolf
Dogmole (TOB)
Erina Defender (TOB)
Eye of the Gods Angel (CC)
Giant Eagle
Goblin Boss
Harpy
Hippogriff
Mountain Strider (TOB2)
Phantom (CC)
Serpentine Lamia (CC)
CR 2
Beli (TOB)
Eala (TOB)
Fear Liath (CC)
Giant Boar
Giant Elk
Giant Vampire Bat (CC)
Griffon
Kot Bayun (TOB)
Lady in White (CC)
Light Dragon Wyrmling (CC)
Noctiny (TOB)
Ogre
Pegasus
Peryton
Saber-Toothed Tiger
Scitalis (CC)
Shadhavar (TOB)
Silver Dragon Wyrmling
Trollkin Grunt (CC)
Vampire Thrall (CC)
Vile Barber (TOB)
Void Dragon Wyrmling (TOB)
Wind Demon (CC)
Wind Eater (CC)
CR 3
Abbanith Giant (TOB2)
Basilisk
Cave Drake (TOB2)
Dark Eye (Dark Folk) (CC)
Elvish Veteran Archer (TOB)
Flame Dragon Wyrmling (TOB)
Giant Albino Bat (CC)
Gloomflower (CC)
Goat-Man (TOB)
Green Hag
Hell Hound
Manticore
Phase Spider
Ravenfolk Warrior (TOB)
Skull Drake (CC)
Sluagh Swarm (TOB)
Spire Walker (TOB)
Thursir Giant (TOB)
Veteran 
Werebat (Lycanthrope) (CC)
Werewolf (Lycanthrope)
CR 4
Ash Drake (TOB)
Bereginyas (TOB)
Carrion Beetle (TOB)
Ettin
Firebird (TOB)
Flab Giant (TOB)
Frostveil (TOB)
Lich Hound (TOB)
Overshadow (TOB2)
Red Dragon Wyrmling
Shadow Fey Guardian (Elves) (TOB)
Trollkin Reaver (TOB)
Trollkin Shaman (CC)
Unhatched (CC)
Wereboar
Wind’s Harp Devil (CC)
CR 5
Air Elemental
Aridni (TOB)
Black Knight Commander (TOB)
Bulette 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 237 ---
237
Appendices
Corrupting Ooze (TOB)
Dark Voice (Dark Folk) (CC)
Dogmole Juggernaut (TOB)
Dream Wraith (CC)
Fellforged (TOB)
Gorgon
Hill Giant
Hound of the Night (TOB)
Hulking Whelp (TOB)
Lamia Serpentine Matriarch (CC)
Lindwurm (TOB)
Ravenfolk Doom Croaker (TOB)
Sandman (TOB)
Shadow Fey Forest Hunter (Elves) 
(TOB)
Shadow Fey Knight of the Road 
(Elves) (CC)
Sleipnir (CC)
Troll
Werebear (Lycanthrope)
Wyvern Knight (CC)
CR 6
Bearfolk Chieftain (CC)
Chimera
Corrupted Ogre Chieftain (TOB)
Crimson Mist (CC)
Elf Deathsworn (CC)
Fate Eater (TOB)
Fext (TOB)
Fey Drake (CC)
Ghost Knight (TOB)
Haunted Giant (CC)
Malphas (TOB)
Mirror Hag (TOB)
Mithral Dragon, Young (TOB)
Mountain Nymph (TOB2)
Necromancer (CC)
Nichny (TOB)
Pixiu (CC)
Redcap (TOB)
Rotting Wind (TOB)
Scheznyki (TOB)
Shadow Fey Duelist (Elves) (TOB)
Wind Dragon, Young (TOB)
Wyvern
CR 7 
Alabaster Tree (Planar Flora) (CC)
Blood Mage (CC)
Copper Dragon, Young
Deathwisp (TOB)
Dhampir Commander (CC)
Elf Enchanter (CC)
Fire Dancer Swarm (TOB)
Giant Sloth (CC)
Red Hag (TOB)
Sarsaok (TOB2)
Shadow Fey Enchantress (Elves) 
(TOB)
Spark (TOB)
Stone Giant
Two-Headed Eagle (CC)
Umbral Vampire (TOB)
Vellso Demon (CC)
Void Speaker (CC)
War Wyvern (CC)
CR 8
Ala (TOB)
Ankou Soul Seeker (CC)
Blemmyes (TOB)
Blood Giant (CC)
Bone Collective (TOB)
Chained Angel (TOB)
Frost Giant
Hoard Drake (TOB2)
Liosalfar (TOB)
Nachzehrer (CC)
Qwyllion (TOB)
Voidwracked Mage (CC)
CR 9
Cloud Giant
Fire Giant
Flame Dragon, Young (TOB)
Lich Hierophant (CC)
Monarch Skeleton (CC)
Silver Dragon, Young
Vine Troll Skeleton (TOB)
Void Dragon, Young (TOB)
CR 10
Bone Swarm (TOB)
Elf Alchemist Archer (CC)
Fear Smith (TOB)
Grave Behemoth (CC)
Nightgaunt (CC)
Red Dragon, Young
CR 11
Abominable Beauty (TOB)
Blood Hag (TOB)
Corpse Mound (TOB)
Dullahan (TOB)
Ghost Dragon (CC)
Grim Jester (TOB)
Mountain Dryad (TOB2)
Roc
Vampiric Knight (CC)
Void Giant (CC)
Voidling (TOB)
Wendigo (CC)
Ychen Bannog (TOB)
CR 12
Ancient Titan (TOB)
Bear King (Fey Lord) (TOB)
Flutterflesh (TOB)
Skein Witch (TOB)
CR 13
Mask Wight (TOB)
Storm Giant
Stuhac (TOB)
Vampire Warlock (Variant) (TOB)
CR 14
Cherufe (TOB2)
Copper Dragon, Adult
Void Dragon, Adult (TOB)
CR 15
Commander of Horn and Gold (Fey 
Lord) (TOB2)
Drake, Star (TOB)
Purple Worm
Slow Storm (TOB)
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 238 ---
238
Book of Ebon Tides
CR 16
Silver Dragon, Adult
Snow Queen (Fey Lady) (TOB)
CR 17
Moonlit King (Fey Lord) (TOB)
Queen of Witches (Fey Lady) (TOB)
Red Dragon, Adult
Wind Dragon, Adult (TOB)
CR 18
Lord of the Hunt (Fey Lord) (TOB)
MARSHES
CR 1/8
Giant Rat
Kobold
Lone Sluagh (Sluagh Swarm) (TOB)
Poisonous Snake
Shroud (TOB)
Stirge
CR 1/4
Constrictor Snake
Corpse Thief (CC)
Exploding Toad (CC)
Giant Frog
Giant Lizard
Giant Poisonous Snake
Living Shade (CC)
Mud Mephit
Otterfolk (TOB2)
Resinous Frog (TOB2)
Shadow Fey (Elves) (TOB)
Skull Lantern (CC)
Swamp Adder (Snake) (TOB)
Swarm of Rats
Swarm of Ravens
Witchlight (TOB)
CR 1/2
Cackling Skeleton (TOB2)
Corrupted Pixie (TOB2)
Crocodile
Execrable Shrub (Planar Flora) (CC)
Flesh Reaver (CC)
Fraughashar (TOB)
Hallowed Reed (Planar Flora) (CC)
Husk (TOB2)
Lizardfolk
Orc
Shadow Goblin (CC)
Skin bat (TOB)
Swarm of Insects
Void Cultist (CC)
CR 1
Anophiloi (CC)
Boloti (TOB)
Dark Servant (Dark Folk) (CC)
Ghoul
Giant Spider
Giant Toad
Glass Gator (TOB)
Phantom (CC)
Sporous Crab (TOB2)
Spurred Water Skate (TOB2)
Trollkin Raider (TOB2)
Wirbeln Fungi (CC)
CR 2
Beli (TOB)
Black Dragon Wyrmling
Blood Zombie (CC)
Dragon Skeleton (TOB2)
Eala (TOB)
Egret Harpy (TOB2)
Gargoyle
Ghast
Giant Constrictor Snake
Lady in White (CC)
Leech Swarm (TOB2)
Light Dragon, Wyrmling (CC)
Lou Carcolh 
Moonshadow Catcher  
(see Chapter 9)
Ogre
Putrid Haunt (TOB)
Rotsam (TOB2)
Scrag, Lesser (CC)
Shadhavar (TOB)
Shadow Goblin Chieftain (see 
Chapter 9)
Shadow Skeleton (CC)
Swampgas Bubble (TOB2)
Swarm of Poisonous Snakes
Trollkin Grunt (CC)
Vampire Thrall (CC)
Vile Barber (TOB)
Will-o’-wisp
Wind Eater (CC)
Yumerai (TOB2)
CR 3
Bagiennik (TOB)
Bloodsapper (TOB2)
Carrier Mosquito (TOB2)
Dark Eye (Dark Folk) (CC)
Drake, Skull (CC)
Gloomflower (CC)
Green Hag
Lazavik (TOB2)
Mold Zombie (CC)
Purple Slime (CC)
Sluagh Swarm (TOB)
Swordbreaker Skeleton (TOB2)
Viiret (TOB2)
Wight
CR 4
Bandit Lord (TOB)
Battle Mage (CC)
Brachyura Shambler (TOB2)
Firebird (TOB)
Lich Hound (TOB)
Lunar Devil, Lesser (see Chapter 9)
Mari Lwyd (TOB2)
Quickserpent (TOB2)
Rattok Demon (CC)
Serpopard (TOB)
Servant of the Unsated God (TOB2)
Shadow Fey Guardian (Elves) (TOB)
Trollkin Reaver (TOB)
Trollkin Shaman (CC)
Unhatched (CC)
Venom Elemental (CC)
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 239 ---
239
Appendices
CR 5
Aridni (TOB)
Befouled Weird (TOB2)
Bouda (TOB)
Cipactli (Demon) (CC)
Corrupting Ooze (TOB)
Dark Voice (Dark Folk) (CC)
Eleinomae (TOB)
Fellforged (TOB)
Fleshdreg (TOB2)
Giant Crocodile
Lord Zombie (CC)
Otyugh
Revenant
Scarlet Ibis (TOB2)
Shadow Fey Forest Hunter (Elves) 
(TOB)
Shadow Fey Knight of the Road 
(Elves) (CC)
Shambling Mound
Somberweave (TOB2)
Troll
Wandering Pond (see Chapter 9)
Water Elemental
Willowhaunt (TOB2)
Zmey headling (TOB)
CR 6
Crimson Mist (CC)
Doomspeaker (CC)
Drake, Fey (CC)
Fext (TOB)
Ghost Knight (TOB)
Malphas (TOB)
Mirror Hag (TOB)
Moonchild Naga (CC)
Necromancer (CC)
Nichny (TOB)
Ogrepede (TOB2)
Primal Oozer (TOB2)
River Giant (see Chapter 9)
Rotsam Swarm (TOB2)
Rotting Wind (TOB)
Shadow Fey Duelist (Elves) (TOB)
Spectral Guardian (TOB)
Swamp Naga (TOB2)
Tar Ooze (TOB2)
CR 7
Alabaster Tree (Planar Flora) (CC)
Black Dragon, Young
Blood Mage (CC)
Deathwisp (TOB)
Dhampir Commander (CC)
Fire Dancers Swarm (TOB)
Graveyard Dragon (TOB2)
Herald of Darkness (TOB)
Lambent Witchfyre (TOB2)
Mangrove Treant (TOB2)
Red Hag (TOB)
Risen Weaver (TOB)
Scrag, Greater (CC)
Shadow Fey Enchantress (Elves) 
(TOB)
Spark (TOB)
Swamp Lily (TOB2)
Umbral Vampire (TOB)
Void Speaker (CC)
CR 8
Blood Giant (CC)
Hydra
Liosalfar (TOB)
Lunar Devil (TOB)
Marsh Dire (TOB2)
Nachzehrer (CC)
Qwyllion (TOB)
Voidwracked Mage (CC)
War Priest (CC)
Xhkarsh (TOB)
CR 9
Bukavac (TOB)
Hierophant Lich (CC)
Monarch Skeleton (CC)
Murgrik (TOB2)
Plague Spirit (TOB2)
Vine Troll Skeleton (TOB)
CR 10
Bone Swarm (TOB)
Dragon Zombie (TOB2)
Fear Smith (TOB)
Foxfire Ooze (CC)
Nightgaunt (CC)
Peat Mammoth (TOB2)
CR 11
Abominable Beauty (TOB)
Ghost Dragon (CC)
Herald of Undeath (CC)
Vampiric Knight (CC)
Void Giant (CC)
Voidling (TOB)
CR 12
Culicoid Demon (TOB2)
Flutterflesh (TOB)
Venom Maw Hydra (CC)
CR 13
Mask Wight (TOB)
Pustulent Shambler (TOB2)
Vampire Warlock (Variant) (TOB)
CR 14
Black Dragon, Adult
CR 16
Infernal Knight (Devil) (CC)
CR 17
Moonlit King (Fey Lord) (TOB)
CR 18
Lord of the Hunt (Fey Lord) (TOB)
RIVERS AND OTHER 
WATERWAYS
CR 0
Commoner
Crab
Eagle
Octopus
Quipper
Sea Horse
CR 1/8
Bandit
Blood Hawk
Giant Crab
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 240 ---
240
Book of Ebon Tides
Guard 
Kobold
Leonino (CC)
Merfolk
Poisonous Snake
Stirge
Wharfling (TOB)
CR 1/4
Garroter Crab (TOB)
Giant Lizard
Giant Wolf Spider
Pseudodragon
Steam Mephit
CR 1/2
Bone Crab (TOB)
Giant Sea Horse
Morphoi (TOB)
Reef Shark
Rum Gremlin (TOB)
Sahuagin
CR 1
Gerridae (TOB)
Giant Eagle
Giant Octopus
Giant Toad
Glass Gator (TOB)
Grindylow (CC)
Harpy
Swarm of Quippers
CR 2
Bandit Captain
Bearmit Crab (CC)
Berserker
Bronze Dragon Wyrmling
Deep Ones (TOB)
Eel Hound (TOB)
Giant Constrictor Snake
Griffon
Hunter Shark
Merrow
Ogre
Scrag, Lesser (CC)
Sea Dragon Wyrmling (TOB)
Sea Hag
Shadow Skeleton (CC)
Shellycoat (TOB)
Yann-An-Oed (CC)
CR 3
Blue Dragon Wyrmling
Kelp Drake (TOB2)
Killer Whale
Mahoru (TOB)
Manticore
Purple Slime (CC)
Veteran (NPC)
CR 4
Deep One Hybrid Priest (TOB)
Giant Water Scorpion (TOB2)
Laestrigonian Giant (CC)
River Spirit (see Chapter 9)
Shoreline Scrapper (CC)
Water Horse (CC)
Water Leaper (TOB)
Wharfling Swarm (TOB)
CR 5
Drowned Maiden (TOB)
Gargoctopus (CC)
Garroter Crab, Giant (TOB)
Giant Shark
Lorelei (TOB)
Subek (TOB)
Undine (CC)
Water Elemental
Wereshark (Lycanthrope) (TOB2)
Windy Wailer (TOB2)
CR 6
River Giant (see Chapter 9)
Rusalka (TOB)
Tidehunter (TOB2)
CR 7
Coral Drake (TOB)
Haleshi (TOB2)
Lake Troll (TOB)
Light Dragon, Young (CC)
Scrag, Greater (CC)
Two-Headed Eagle (CC)
CR 8
Bronze Dragon, Young
Deep One Archimandrite (TOB)
Ikuchi (TOB2)
Ziphius (CC)
CR 9
Blue Dragon, Young
Keelbreaker Crab (TOB2)
Sea Dragon, Young (TOB)
Shadow River Lord (CC)
CR 10
Aboleth
CR 11
Roc
CR 12
Dragon Eel (TOB)
CR 13
Devil Shark (CC)
Storm Giant
Storm Lord (Elemental) (CC)
CR 14
Isonade (TOB)
Krake Spawn (TOB)
CR 15
Bronze Dragon, Adult
CR 16
Blue Dragon, Adult
Light Dragon, Adult (CC)
River King (Fey Lord) (TOB)
Sea Dragon, Adult (TOB)
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 241 ---
241
Appendices
CR 17
Dragon Turtle
CR 23
Kraken
SHADOW ROADS
CR 1/8
Lone Sluagh (Sluagh Swarm) (TOB)
Shroud (TOB)
Stryx (TOB)
CR 1/4
Alliumite (CC)
Clurichaun (TOB)
Erina Scrounger (TOB)
Goreling (CC)
Living Shade (CC)
Living Wick (TOB)
Molefolk (see Chapter 9)
Ramag (TOB)
Ratfolk (TOB)
Roachling Skirmisher (TOB)
Shadow Fey (Elves) (TOB)
Treacle (TOB)
Witchlight (TOB)
CR 1/2
Alehouse Drake (TOB)
Beggar Ghoul (TOB)
Bucca (TOB)
Burrowling (TOB)
Chupacabra (CC)
Pact Drake (CC)
Phantom (CC)
Ratfolk Rogue (TOB)
Ratfolk Warlock (CC)
Serpentfolk of Yig (CC)
Suppurating Ooze (CC)
Wind Dragon, Wyrmling (TOB)
CR 2
Beli (TOB)
Clockwork Hound (TOB)
Cobbleswarm (TOB)
Doppelrat (TOB)
Dragonborn Elementalist (CC)
Dragonborn Heavy Cavalry (CC)
Dream Squire (CC)
Eala (TOB)
Firegeist (TOB)
Folk of Leng (TOB)
Ink Devil (TOB)
Kitsune (CC)
Kobold Alchemist (TOB)
Kobold Junk Shaman (CC)
Lady in White (CC)
Light Dragon Wyrmling (CC)
Lystrosaurus (Dinosaur) (CC)
Myling (TOB)
Noctiny (TOB)
Paper Drake (TOB) 
Ratfolk Mercenary (CC)
Roachling Lord (TOB)
Roachling Scout (CC)
Scitalis (CC)
Seeping Death Skeleton (CC)
Shadhavar (TOB)
Shadow Fey Pattern Dancer (Elves) 
(CC)
Sigilian (CC)
Spider Thief (TOB)
Tosculi Warriors (TOB)
Trollkin Grunt (CC)
Uraeus (TOB)
Vampire Thrall (CC)
Vile Barber (TOB)
Wind Demon (CC)
Wind Eater (CC)
On the Road
An extremely wide range of creatures from lowly stryx to Demon lords may 
be found on the Shadow Roads. Surprisingly, the more dangerous they 
are, the more often they seem to be in a hurry to get somewhere. Some 
encounters on a Shadow Road are nothing more than a passing nod to 
Camazotz, Demon Lord of Bats, as he flutters past.
Clockwork Beetle (TOB)
Corpse Thief (CC)
Empty Cloak (TOB)
Execrable Shrub (Planar Flora) (CC)
Fire Imp (Devil) (CC)
Flesh Reaver (CC)
Foxin (CC)
Fraughashar (TOB)
Keyhole Dragonette (TOB2)
Kobold Spellclerk (TOB2)
Nalusa Falaya (CC)
Nkosi (TOB)
Ravenfolk Scout (TOB)
Rubble Swarm (Shard Swarm) (CC)
Shard Swarm (CC)
Skin bat (TOB)
Sooze (Shoth) (CC)
Tosculi Drone (TOB)
Void Cultist (CC)
Weirding Scroll (CC)
CR 1
Alchemical Apprentice Ooze (CC)
Chernomoi (TOB)
Dark Servant (Dark Folk) (CC)
Dhampir (CC)
Dragonborn Light Cavalry (CC)
Elite Kobold (CC)
Emerald Eye (TOB)
Eonic Drifter (TOB)
Erina Defender (TOB)
Flithidir (TOB2)
Kobold Trapsmith (TOB)
Nodosaurus (Dinosaur) (CC)
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 242 ---
242
Book of Ebon Tides
CR 3
Ahu-Nixta (CC)
Bleakheart (TOB2)
Bloody Bones (CC)
Bronze Golem (CC)
Catscratch (TOB2)
Clockwork Huntsman (TOB)
Dark Eye Dark Folk (CC)
Dragonborn Edjet (CC)
Elvish Veteran Archer (TOB)
Fang of the Great Wolf (Worg) (CC)
Far Darrig (TOB)
Far Wanderer (CC)
Ghast of Leng (CC)
Ghost Boar (CC)
Lesser Wood Golem (CC)
Mbielu (Dinosaur) (TOB)
Monolith Footman (TOB)
Orthrus (CC)
Plaresh Demon (CC)
Preta (Hungry Ghost) (CC)
Shadow Boxer (TOB2)
Shadow Freezing Ooze (CC)
Shadow Ooze (CC)
Skull Drake (CC)
Snake with a Hundred Mage Hands 
(TOB2)
Thursir Giant (TOB)
War Chaplain (CC)
Werebat (Lycanthrope) (CC)
Werehyena (Lycanthrope) (CC)
Wolf Reaver Dwarf (TOB)
CR 4
Ash Drake (TOB)
Bandit Lord (TOB)
Battle Mage (CC)
Cats of Ulthar (CC)
City Watch Captain (TOB)
Death Butterfly Swarm (TOB)
Dwarf Graveslayer (CC)
Firebird (TOB)
Gear Mage (CC)
Gremlin Rum Lord (TOB2)
Ink Guardian Ooze (CC)
Kobold Chieftain (TOB)
Lich Hound (TOB)
Necrophage Ghast (Ghoul) (CC)
Nkosi Pridelord (TOB)
Ortifex (TOB2)
Philosopher’s Ghost (CC)
Ratatosk (TOB)
Rattok Demon (CC)
Servant of Yig (CC)
Shadow Fey Guardian (Elves) (TOB)
Tar Ghoul (CC)
Tosculi Jeweled Drone (CC)
Trollkin Reaver (TOB)
Trollkin Shaman (CC)
Tusked Skyfish (TOB)
Vaettir (TOB)
Yek Demon (CC)
CR 5
Aridni (TOB)
Black Knight Commander (TOB)
Bouda (TOB)
Centaur Chieftan (CC)
Cipactli Demon (CC)
Clockwork Abomination (TOB)
Corrupting Ooze (TOB)
Dark Voice (Dark Folk) (CC)
Dream Eater (TOB)
Dream Wraith (CC)
Dvarapala (CC)
Dwarf Cleric of the Brew (CC)
Fellforged (TOB)
Fierstjerren (CC)
Gnomish Distiller (see Chapter 9)
Gnomish Knife Cultist (CC)
Hound of the Night (TOB)
Hulking Whelp (TOB)
Karakura (CC)
Kikimora (TOB)
Lamia Serpentine Matriarch (CC)
Lord Zombie (CC)
Mi-Go (TOB)
Oth (Shoth) (CC)
Owl Harpy (TOB)
Quickstep (CC)
Ramag Portal Master (CC)
Ratatosk Warlord (CC)
Ravenfolk Doom Croaker (TOB)
Sandman (TOB)
Shadow Fey Forest Hunter (Elves) 
(TOB)
Shadow Fey Knight of the Road 
(Elves) (CC)
Sleipnir (CC)
Spawn of Akyishigal (Demon) (TOB)
Spawn of Arbeyach (Devil) (TOB)
Spawn of Parzelon (Devil) (CC)
Spree (Demon) (CC)
Temple Dog (TOB)
Three-Headed Cobra (CC)
Tusked Crimson Ogre (CC)
Vapor Lynx (TOB)
Wormhearted Suffragan (TOB)
Xiphus (CC)
CR 6
Bearfolk Chieftain (CC)
Blood Ooze (CC)
Clockwork Assassin (CC)
Crimson Mist (CC)
Crystalline Devil (TOB)
Death Butterfly Swarm, Greater 
(TOB)
Doomspeaker (CC)
Dracotaur (CC)
Elf Deathsworn (CC)
Elf Servant of the Vine (CC)
Fate Eater (TOB)
Fext (TOB)
Fey Drake (CC)
Gearforged Templar (TOB)
Ghost Boar, Elder (CC)
Ghost Dwarf (CC)
Ghost Knight (TOB)
Kobold King (CC)
Loxoda (TOB)
Malphas (TOB)
Mirror Hag (TOB)
Moonchild Naga (CC)
Necromancer (CC)
Nichny (TOB)
Nightgarm (TOB)
Ouroboros (CC)
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 243 ---
243
Appendices
Shadow Fey Duelist (Elves) (TOB)
Spectral Guardian (TOB)
Wind Dragon, Young (TOB)
Wolf Spirit Swarm (TOB)
CR 7
Alabaster Tree (Planar Flora) (CC)
Blood Mage (CC)
Dhampir Commander (CC)
Dissimortuum (TOB)
Dwarven ringmage (TOB)
Einherjar (TOB)
Elf Enchanter (CC)
Fire Dancer Swarm (TOB)
Giant Sloth (CC)
Gilded Devil (TOB)
Herald of Darkness (TOB)
Psoglav Demon (TOB)
Red Hag (TOB)
Risen Weaver (TOB)
Sentinel in Darkness (CC)
Shadow Fey Enchantress (Elves) 
(TOB)
Silenal (TOB2)
Soul Eater (TOB)
Spark (TOB)
Umbral Vampire (TOB)
Vellso Demon (CC)
Void Speaker (CC)
CR 8
Ankou Soul Seeker (CC)
Arborcyte (CC)
Arcane Spectral Guardian (TOB)
Blood Giant (CC)
Bone Collective (TOB)
Chronalmental (TOB)
Clockwork Dragon (CC)
Degenerate Titan (TOB)
Dragonleaf Tree (TOB)
Emerald Order Cult Leader (TOB)
Feyward Tree (TOB)
Fractal Golem (CC)
Hound of Tindalos (CC)
Kishi Demon (TOB)
Liosalfar (TOB)
Lunar Devil (TOB)
Manastorm Golem (CC)
Monolith Champion (TOB)
Moon Nymph (CC)
Nachzehrer (CC)
Neophron Demon (CC)
Oliphaunt (CC)
Qwyllion (TOB)
Ring Servant (CC)
Rust Drake (TOB)
Tetomatli (TOB2)
Thief Lord (CC)
Vampire Priestess (CC)
Vines of Nemthyr (CC)
Voidwracked Mage (CC)
War Priest (CC)
Xhkarsh (TOB)
CR 9
Alchemical Golem (CC)
Alnaar Demon (CC)
Devilbound Gnomish Prince (TOB)
Eater of Dust (TOB)
Fulad-Zereh Demon (CC)
Gaki-Jikininki (Hungry Ghost) (CC)
Hierophant Lich (CC)
Lotus Golem (CC)
Malakbel Demon (TOB)
Monarch Skeleton (CC)
Righteous Sentinel (TOB2)
Shadow Fey Ambassador (Elves) 
(CC)
Vine Troll Skeleton (TOB)
Yek Demon, Alpha (CC)
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 244 ---
244
Book of Ebon Tides
CR 10
Algorith (TOB)
Altar Flame Golem (CC)
Automata Devil (TOB)
Bone Swarm (TOB)
Doom Golem (CC)
Elf Alchemist Archer (CC)
Fear Smith (TOB)
Grave Behemoth (CC)
Hundun (TOB)
Lamassu (CC)
Nightgaunt (CC)
Rubezahl Demon (TOB)
Theullai (TOB)
Vampire Patrician (CC)
CR 11
Abominable Beauty (TOB)
Berstuc Demon (TOB)
Blood Hag (TOB)
Buraq (TOB)
Corpse Mound (TOB)
Dragonborn Ouroban (CC)
Dullahan (TOB)
Eye Golem (TOB)
Ghost Dragon (CC)
Grim Jester (TOB)
Herald of Slaughter (TOB2)
Herald of Undeath (CC)
Koralk Devil (TOB)
Mouse King (Animal Lord) (CC)
Naina (TOB)
Shadow Fey Poisoner (Elves) (CC)
Valkyrie (TOB)
Vampiric Knight (CC)
Void Giant (CC)
Voidling (TOB)
CR 12
Akyishigal of Cockroaches (Demon 
Lord) (TOB)
Ancient Titan (TOB)
Chort Devil (TOB)
Chronomatic Enhancer (TOB2)
Droth (Shoth) (CC)
Herald of Blood (TOB)
Herald of Fire (CC)
Knight of Shadows (See Chapter 9)
Mavka (TOB)
Skein Witch (TOB)
Son of Fenris (TOB)
Tosculi Queen (TOB)
Virtuoso Lich (TOB2)
CR 13
Bat King (Animal Lord) (CC)
Chittr’k’k of Rats (Demon Lord) 
(CC)
Clockwork Archon (TOB2)
Haugbui (TOB)
Mask Wight (TOB)
Psychic Vampire (TOB2)
Steam Golem (TOB)
Vampire Warlock (TOB)
CR 14
Cambium (TOB)
Orobas Devil (TOB)
Three-Headed Clockwork Dragon 
(CC)
CR 15
Herald of the Great Wyrm (CC)
Ia’Affrat the Insatiable (Arch-Devil) 
(TOB)
Pact Lich (CC)
Queen of Cats (Animal Lord) (CC)
Rakshasa, Greater (CC)
Star-Spawn of Cthulhu (TOB)
Whisperer in Darkness (CC)
CR 16
Berchta (Fey Lady) (CC)
Infernal Knight (Devil) (CC)
Snow Queen (Fey Lady) (TOB)
CR 17
Barong (CC)
Koschei (TOB)
Moonlit King (Fey Lord) (TOB)
Queen of Witches (Fey Lady) (TOB)
Rangda of Witches (Demon Lord) 
(CC)
Wind Dragon, Adult (TOB)
CR 18
Lord of the Hunt (Fey Lord) (TOB)
CR 19
Chemosh (Demon Lord) (CC)
Hraesvelgr the Corpse Swallower 
(Giant) (TOB)
Living Star (CC)
Shoggoth (TOB)
CR 20+
Alquam (Demon Lord) (TOB)
Avatar of Shoth (Shoth) (CC)
Camazotz (Demon Lord) (TOB)
Emperor of the Ghouls (Ghouls) 
(TOB)
Jotun Giant (TOB)
Mammon (Arch-Devil) (TOB)
Monkey King (Simian) (CC)
Parzalon (Arch-Devil) (CC)
Qorgeth (Demon Lord) (TOB)
Queen of Night and Magic (Fey 
Lady) (TOB)
Totivillus (Arch-Devil) (TOB)
Typhon (Demon Lord) (CC)
Wind Dragon, Ancient (TOB)
UNDERGROUND
CR 0
Giant Fire Beetle
Lantern Beetle (TOB2)
Shrieker
Zoog (CC)
CR 1/8
Giant Rat
Kobold
Pixie’s Umbrella Fungi (TOB2)
Sniffer Beetle (TOB2)
Stirge
Wicked Skull (TOB2)
CR 1/4
Cave Goat (TOB2)
Ghoul Bat (TOB2)
Giant Bat
Giant Centipede
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 245 ---
245
Appendices
Giant Lizard
Giant Poisonous Snake
Goblin
Grimlock
Living Wick (TOB)
Ratfolk (TOB)
Shiftshroom Fungi (TOB2)
Skeleton
Swarm of Bats
Troglodyte
Violet Fungus
CR 1/2
Beggar Ghoul (TOB)
Boomer Fungi (TOB2)
Boot Grabber (CC)
Crimson Shambler (TOB2)
Darkmantle
Derro Guard (TOB2)
Gray Ooze
Hobgoblin
Kobold Trapsmith (TOB)
Light Drake (TOB2)
Magma Mephit
Mydnari (TOB2)
Orc
Rust Monster
Shadow
Shadow Goblin (CC)
CR 1
Bugbear
Dogmole (TOB)
Duergar
Ghoul
Giant Spider
Giant Toad
Kobold Elite (CC)
Kobold Trapsmith (TOB)
Putrescent Slime (TOB2)
Ratfolk Rogue (TOB)
Ratfolk Warlock (CC)
Specter
Stone Creeper (TOB2)
Suppurating Ooze (CC)
Wirbeln Fungi (CC)
CR 2
Ankheg
Black Sun Orc (CC)
Cave Dragon Wyrmling (TOB)
Clacking Skeleton (CC)
Cobbleswarm (TOB)
Crypt Spider (CC)
Derro Explorer (TOB2)
Doppelrat (TOB)
Dream Squire (CC)
Flame Eater Swarm (CC)
Gargoyle
Gelatinous Cube
Ghast
Giant Vampire Bat (CC)
Gibbering Mouther
Grick
Ink Devil (TOB)
Kobold Alchemist (TOB)
Kobold Junk Shaman (CC)
Mimic
Ochre Jelly
Ogre
Ophinix (TOB2)
Pech (CC)
Ratfolk Mercenary (CC)
Roachling Scout (CC)
Rock Roach (TOB2)
Seeping Death Skeleton (CC)
Shadow Fey Pattern Dancer (Elves) 
(CC)
Shellycoat (TOB)
Swarm of Esteron (TOB2)
CR 3
Basilisk
Corpse Worm (TOB2)
Darakhul (Ghoul) (TOB)
Doppelganger
Gaunt One (TOB2)
Ghoulsteed (CC)
Giant Albino Bat (CC)
Hell Hound
Keg Golem (CC)
Megapede (CC)
Mineral Ooze (TOB2)
Minotaur
Night Scorpion (TOB)
Orc Black Sun Priestess (CC)
Phase Spider
Swolbold (Kobold) (CC)
Venomous Mummy (TOB)
Veteran (NPC)
Wight
Woe Siphon (TOB2)
CR 4
Angler Worm (TOB)
Black Pudding
Cavelight Moss (TOB)
Chuul
Darakhul Shadowmancer (Ghoul) 
(CC)
Deathcap Myconid (TOB)
Deep Troll (TOB2)
Derro Fetal Savant (TOB)
Emperor’s Hyena (TOB2)
Ettin
Ghost
Imperial Ghoul (TOB)
Kobold Chieftain (TOB)
Necrophage Ghast (Ghoul) (CC)
Oculo Swarm (TOB)
Overshadow (TOB2)
Pech Stonemaster (CC)
Skitterhaunt (TOB)
Strobing Fungi (TOB2)
CR 5
Darakhul Spy (Ghoul) (TOB2)
Deathweaver (TOB2)
Derro Shadow Antipaladin (TOB)
Derro Speaker to Darkness (CC)
Derro Witch Queen (CC)
Dogmole Juggernaut (TOB)
Dream Eater (TOB)
Earth Elemental
Eldritch Ooze (TOB2)
Iron Ghoul (TOB)
Kobold Wizard (CC)
Lunarian (TOB2)
Otyugh
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 246 ---
246
Book of Ebon Tides
Phase Giant (TOB2)
Rat King (TOB)
Roper
Salamander
Sarcophagus Slime (TOB)
Troll
Vampire Spawn
Wraith
Xorn
CR 6
Bloated Ghoul (TOB2)
Blood Ooze (CC)
Chimera
Crystalline Devil (TOB)
Derro Shadowseeker (TOB2)
Drider
Echo Demon (CC)
Gnarljak (TOB)
King Kobold (CC)
Quiet Soul (CC)
Ruby Ooze (CC)
Scheznyki (TOB)
CR 7
Crystalline Monolith (TOB2)
Fey Revenant (TOB2)
Pech Lithlord (CC)
Sentinel in Darkness (CC)
Shadow Beast (TOB)
Stone Giant
Walled Horror (TOB2)
Yathon (TOB2)
CR 8
Bloodstone Sentinel (TOB2)
Cave Dragon, Young (TOB)
Cloaker
Giant Shark Bowl Ooze (CC)
Idolic Deity (TOB)
Lost Minotaur (CC)
Onyx Magistrate (TOB2)
Rust Drake (TOB)
Spirit Naga
CR 9
Darakhul Captain (Ghoul) (TOB2)
Darakhul High Priestess (Ghoul) (CC)
Deep Drake (TOB)
Fire Giant
Horakh (TOB)
Nharyth (TOB2)
Shadow Fey Ambassador (Elves) (CC)
Shriekbat (TOB2)
Spider Drake (CC)
Thin Giant (TOB2)
CR 10
Aboleth
Cave Giant (CC)
Conjoined Queen (TOB2)
Sathaq Worm (TOB)
CR 11
Behir
Shadow Fey Poisoner (Elves) (CC)
CR 12
Bonepowder Ghoul (TOB)
Gug (TOB)
Nihileth (Aboleth) (TOB)
CR 13
Bone Colossus (Necrotech) (TOB2)
CR 14
Cambium (TOB)
Cave Giant Shaman (TOB2)
Gypsosphinx (TOB)
CR 15
Purple Worm
CR 16
Cave Dragon, Adult (TOB)
Flame Dragon, Adult (TOB)
CR 17
Urochar (TOB)
CR 20
Emperor of the Ghouls (TOB)
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 247 ---
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 248 ---
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 249 ---
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 250 ---
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 251 ---
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 252 ---
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 253 ---
Dare You Tread 
  Dare You Tread 
       
       the Twisting 
the Twisting 
      Paths of Shadow?
      Paths of Shadow?
In the Shadow Realm, mysterious places abound, 
guarded by denizens both strange and wondrous. From 
woods dark and eerie to courts of noble fey, all paths 
lead to haunts, ruins, machinations, and subterfuge. 
Tales from the Shadows delivers fast, memorable 5th 
Edition adventures on the dark side!
Inside this 192-page tome, find:
• 14 new adventures, suitable for levels 1–8,  
playable separately or in sequence
• Heroes must defeat cunning creatures, solve  
enigmas, and thwart malevolent intrigues!
• A background plot thread surrounding a  
fabled item, the Shadow Grimoire, which  
ties these adventures together
• 28 full-color maps and dozens of illustrations
• New monsters, NPCs, magic items,  
and easy prep for your next game!
Gather your courage and turn a  
wary eye toward the gloaming!
Kobold Press logo is a trademark of Open Design LLC.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 254 ---
No matter how you slice it, magic is at the heart of 
fantasy—and nothing says magic like a massive 
tome of spells. This tome collects, updates, tweaks, 
and expands spells from years of the Deep Magic for Fifth Edition 
series—more than 700 new and revised spells. And it adds a lot more:
• 3 otherworldly patrons for warlocks, 
including the Sibyl;
• expanded treatments of familiars and 
other wizardly servants;
• and much more!
command 
ommand 700
700 
New Spells For 
New Spells For 
Fifth Edition
Fifth Edition
©2020 Open Design LLC. Kobold Press logo is a trademark of Open Design LLC.
• 19 divine domains from Beer to 
Mountain and Speed to Winter;
• 13 new wizard specialties, such as the 
elementalist and the timekeeper;
• 6 new sorcerous origins, including 
the Aristocrat and the Farseer;
This tome is not just for wizards, warlocks, and sorcerers. Deep Magic also expands the 
horizons of what’s possible for bards, clerics, druids, and even rangers and paladins. It offers 
something new for every spellcasting class.
Deep Magic contains nothing but magic from start to finish!
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 255 ---
©2022 Open Design LLC. Kobold Press logo is a trademark of Open Design LLC.
Open a Trove 
Open a Trove 
    of
of Wonders
Wonders!
Inside Vault of Magic, find a vast treasure trove 
of enchanted items of every imaginable use—
more than 950 in all! There are plenty of armors, 
weapons, potions, rings, and wands, but that’s 
just for starters. From mirrors to masks, edibles 
to earrings, and lanterns to lockets, it’s all here, 
ready for your 5th Edition game.
This 240-page volume includes:
• More than 30 unique items developed by special guests, including  
Patrick Rothfuss, Gail Simone, Deborah Ann Woll, and Luke Gygax
• Fabled items that grow in power as characters rise in levels
• New item themes, such as monster-inspired, clockwork, and apprentice wizards
• Hundreds of full-color illustrations
• Complete treasure-generation tables sorted by rarity
Amaze your players and spice up your 5th Edition campaign with  
fresh, new enchanted items from Vault of Magic. It’ll turn that next  
treasure hoard into something . . . wondrous!
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 256 ---
OPEN GAME LICENSE Version 1.0a
The following text is the property of Wizards of the Coast, Inc. and 
is Copyright 2000 Wizards of the Coast, Inc (“Wizards”). All Rights 
Reserved. 
1. Definitions: (a)”Contributors” means the copyright and/or 
trademark owners who have contributed Open Game Content; 
(b)”Derivative Material” means copyrighted material including 
derivative works and translations (including into other computer 
languages), potation, modification, correction, addition, extension, 
upgrade, improvement, compilation, abridgment or other form in 
which an existing work may be recast, transformed or adapted; (c) 
“Distribute” means to reproduce, license, rent, lease, sell, broadcast, 
publicly display, transmit or otherwise distribute; (d)”Open Game 
Content” means the game mechanic and includes the methods, 
procedures, processes and routines to the extent such content 
does not embody the Product Identity and is an enhancement 
over the prior art and any additional content clearly identified as 
Open Game Content by the Contributor, and means any work 
covered by this License, including translations and derivative works 
under copyright law, but specifically excludes Product Identity. (e) 
“Product Identity” means product and product line names, logos 
and identifying marks including trade dress; artifacts; creatures 
characters; stories, storylines, plots, thematic elements, dialogue, 
incidents, language, artwork, symbols, designs, depictions, 
likenesses, formats, poses, concepts, themes and graphic, 
photographic and other visual or audio representations; names 
and descriptions of characters, spells, enchantments, personalities, 
teams, personas, likenesses and special abilities; places, locations, 
environments, creatures, equipment, magical or supernatural 
abilities or effects, logos, symbols, or graphic designs; and any 
other trademark or registered trademark clearly identified as 
Product identity by the owner of the Product Identity, and which 
specifically excludes the Open Game Content; (f) “Trademark” 
means the logos, names, mark, sign, motto, designs that are used 
by a Contributor to identify itself or its products or the associated 
products contributed to the Open Game License by the Contributor 
(g) “Use”, “Used” or “Using” means to use, Distribute, copy, edit, 
format, modify, translate and otherwise create Derivative Material 
of Open Game Content. (h) “You” or “Your” means the licensee in 
terms of this agreement. 
2. The License: This License applies to any Open Game Content 
that contains a notice indicating that the Open Game Content 
may only be Used under and in terms of this License. You must 
affix such a notice to any Open Game Content that you Use. No 
terms may be added to or subtracted from this License except 
as described by the License itself. No other terms or conditions 
may be applied to any Open Game Content distributed using this 
License. 
3. Offer and Acceptance: By Using the Open Game Content You 
indicate Your acceptance of the terms of this License. 
4. Grant and Consideration: In consideration for agreeing to 
use this License, the Contributors grant You a perpetual, worldwide, 
royalty-free, non-exclusive license with the exact terms of this 
License to Use, the Open Game Content. 
5. Representation of Authority to Contribute: If You are 
contributing original material as Open Game Content, You 
represent that Your Con-tributions are Your original creation and/ 
or You have sufficient rights to grant the rights conveyed by this 
License. 
6. Notice of License Copyright: You must update the 
COPYRIGHT NOTICE portion of this License to include the exact 
text of the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any Open Game Content You are 
copying, modifying or distributing, and You must add the title, the 
copyright date, and the copyright holder’s name to the COPYRIGHT 
NOTICE of any original Open Game Content you Distribute. 
7. Use of Product Identity: You agree not to Use any Product 
Identity, including as an indication as to compatibility, except as 
expressly licensed in another, independent Agreement with the 
owner of each element of that Product Identity. You agree not 
to indicate compatibility or co-adaptability with any Trademark 
or Registered Trademark in conjunction with a work containing 
Open Game Content except as expressly licensed in another, 
independent Agreement with the owner of such Trademark or 
Registered Trademark. The use of any Product Identity in Open 
Game Content does not constitute a challenge to the ownership of 
that Product Identity. 
The owner of any Product Identity used in Open Game Content 
shall retain all rights, title and interest in and to that Product 
Identity. 
8. Identification: If you distribute Open Game Content You 
must clearly indicate which portions of the work that you are 
distributing are Open Game Content. 
9. Updating the License: Wizards or its designated Agents 
may publish updated versions of this License. You may use any 
authorized version of this License to copy, modify and distribute 
any Open Game Content originally distributed under any version of 
this License. 
10. Copy of this License: You MUST include a copy of this 
License with every copy of the Open Game Content You Distribute. 
11. Use of Contributor Credits: You may not market or 
advertise the Open Game Content using the name of any 
Contributor unless You have written permission from the 
Contributor to do so. 
12. Inability to Comply: If it is impossible for You to comply 
with any of the terms of this License with respect to some or 
all of the Open Game Content due to statute, judicial order, or 
governmental regulation then You may not Use any Open Game 
Material so affected. 
13. Termination: This License will terminate automatically if You 
fail to comply with all terms herein and fail to cure such breach 
within 30 days of becoming aware of the breach. All sublicenses 
shall survive the termination of this License. 
14. Reformation: If any provision of this License is held to be 
unenforceable, such provision shall be reformed only to the extent 
necessary to make it enforceable. 
15. COPYRIGHT NOTICE 
Open Game License v 1.0a Copyright 2000, Wizards of the 
Coast, LLC.
System Reference Document 5.1 Copyright 2016, Wizards 
of the Coast, Inc.; Authors Mike Mearls, Jeremy Crawford, Chris 
Perkins, Rodney Thompson, Peter Lee, James Wyatt, Robert J. 
Schwalb, Bruce R. Cordell, Chris Sims, and Steve Townshend, based 
on original material by E. Gary Gygax and Dave Arneson.
Courts of the Shadow Fey © 2019 Open Design LLC; Authors: 
Wolfgang Baur, Dan Dillon. 
Empire of the Ghouls © 2020 Open Design LLC; Authors: 
Wolfgang Baur, Richard Green, Jeff Lee, Christopher Lockey, Kelly 
Pawlik, Mike Welham.
Midgard Heroes Handbook © 2018 Open Design LLC; Authors: 
Wolfgang Baur, Scott Carter, Dan Dillon, Richard Green, Chris 
Harris, Rich Howard, Greg Marks, Shawn Merwin, Michael Ohl, Jon 
Sawatsky.
Midgard Worldbook for 5th Edition © 2021 Open Design LLC; 
Authors: Wolfgang Baur, Dan Dillon, Richard Green, Jeff Grubb, 
Chris Harris, Jon Sawatsky, Brian Suskind.
Southlands Worldbook © 2021 Open Design LLC; Authors: 
Richard Green with Wolfgang Baur, Basheer Ghouse, Kelly Pawlik.
Tome of Heroes © 2022 Open Design LLC; Authors: Celeste 
Conowitch, Jeff Lee, Sarah Madsen, Ben McFarland, Kelly Pawlik, 
Brian Suskind.
Underworld Player’s Guide © 2020 Open Design LLC; Authors: 
Wolfgang Baur, Dan Dillon, Jeff Lee, Christopher Lockey, Shawn 
Merwin, Kelly Pawlik.
Vault of Magic © 2021 Open Design LLC; Authors: Phillip 
Larwood, Jeff Lee, Christopher Lockey.
Warlock 8: Undead © 2018 Open Design LLC; Authors: 
Wolfgang Baur, Dan Dillon, Chris Harris, Kelly Pawlik.
Warlock 23: Bearfolk © 2020 Open Design LLC; Authors: 
Celeste Conowitch, Sarah Madsen, Mike Welham.
Warlock Guide to the Shadow Realm © 2019 Open Design 
LLC; Author: Kelly Pawlik. 
Book of Ebon Tides © 2022 Open Design LLC; Authors: 
Wolfgang Baur, Celeste Conowitch.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 257 ---
The Plane of Shadow exists beside the mortal world, a twisted 
reflection of the Material Plane where fey magic, illusion, 
and trickery are as potent as steel. Heroes can enter this 
otherworldly realm of fey shadows, undead horrors, and wild 
adventure—but can they survive?
Book of Ebon Tides includes:
•	 Details on the fey courts, bearfolk, ghouls, shades, and more
•	 17 playable races and subraces, including sable elves, 
shadowborn bearfolk, and umbral humans
•	 10 subclasses, such as the light weaver sorcerer, shadow 
domain cleric, and shadow gnawer barbarian
•	 17 gods of the Shadow Realm and their followers
•	 25 new creatures, including the rose golem and the Styx giant
•	 Plus full-color maps, new spells and magic items, and more!
Explore a world of shadows, just next door—one step 
down the shadow road. . . .
$49.99
KOB 9337
Printed in China
ISBN: 978-1-950789-33-7
PO Box 2811 | Kirkland WA 98083 
www.koboldpress.com
Step Beyond 
Step Beyond the  
the  
    Veil into the   
    Veil into the   
  Shadow Realm!
  Shadow Realm!
James Larsen (Order #51905805)