--- PAGE 1 ---
Explore 
a 
hellish 
landscape 
of 
the 
Blood 
War 
in 
this 
companion
supplement 
for 
Baldur’s 
Gate: 
Descent 
into 
Avernus
ENCOUNTERS 
IN 
AVERNUS

--- PAGE 2 ---
ENCOUNTERS IN AVERNUS
DUNGEONS & DRAGONS, D&D, Wizards of the Coast, Forgotten Realms, Ravenloft, the dragon ampersand, and all other Wizards of the Coast 
product names, and their respective logos are trademarks of Wizards of the Coast in the USA and other countries.
This work contains material that is copyright Wizards of the Coast and/or other authors. Such material is used with permission under the 
Community Content Agreement for Dungeon Masters Guild.
All other original material in this work is ©2019 and published under the Community Content Agreement for Dungeon Masters Guild.
Credits
Credits
Designers: M.T. Black, James Haeck, James Introcaso, 
Rich Lescouflair, Shawn Merwin, Ashley Warren
Editing: James Introcaso
Art Direction and Graphic Design: Rich Lescouflair
Cover and Interior Art: Provided by Wizards of the Coast 
and used with permission
Special Thanks: Chris Lindsay, Wizards of the Coast

--- PAGE 3 ---
Introduction
2
Introduction
Welcome to Hell! Encounters in Avernus provides 
more than sixty short encounters and two encounter 
chains to complement the Baldur’s Gate: Descent into 
Avernus adventure from Wizards of the Coast.
Overview
This supplement has the following sections:
•	Chapter 1: Avernus Encounters. Twenty short 
encounters that can happen anywhere as the characters 
travel throughout Avernus.
•	Chapter 2: River Styx Encounters. Twenty short 
encounters that can happen in Avernus as the 
characters travel on or near the River Styx.
•	Chapter 3: Elturel Encounters. Twenty short 
encounters that can happen anywhere in the city of 
Elturel after it is dragged into Avernus.
•	Chapter 4: Encounter Chains. Two encounter chains 
that can be used to flesh out or create new adventures 
in Avernus.
•	Appendix A: Monster & NPC Statistics. Statistics 
for creatures used in the encounters not found in the 
Monster Manual.
•	Appendix B: Magic Items. Descriptions for magic 
items found in the encounters not found in the Dungeon 
Master’s Guide.
Running Encounters
To run these encounters, you need the D&D fifth edition 
core rulebooks: Player’s Handbook, Dungeon Master’s 
Guide, and Monster Manual. You also need a copy of 
Baldur’s Gate: Descent into Avernus, though with a little 
adjustment, you could use most of these encounters for 
any infernally themed adventure.
	 The Monster Manual contains stat blocks for most of 
the creatures found in the encounters. All the necessary 
stat blocks are included there or in appendix A. When a 
creature’s name appears in bold type, that’s a visual cue 
for you to look up the creature’s stat block in the Monster 
Manual, unless the text instead refers you to the monster 
appendix in this book.
	 Spells and equipment mentioned in the encounters 
are described in the Player’s Handbook. Magic items are 
described in the Dungeon Master’s Guide, unless the 
adventure’s text directs you to an item’s description in 
appendix B.
Abbreviations
The following abbreviations appear in this book:
•	AC = Armor Class
•	DC = Difficulty Class
•	XP = experience points
•	pp = platinum piece(s)
•	gp = gold piece(s)
•	sp = silver piece(s)
•	cp = copper piece(s)
•	NPC = nonplayer character
•	DM = Dungeon Master

--- PAGE 4 ---
Introduction
3
Random Encounters
While the characters travel through Avernus and the 
streets of Elturel, you can roll a d20 for every 8 hours they 
spend traveling or resting to see if a random encounter 
occurs. On a roll of 12 or higher, choose the appropriate 
encounter table and roll or choose an encounter on that 
table. You can change the number of encounters the 
characters experience as you see fit.
Encounter Difficulty
Each of the results on the encounter tables represents a 
certain kind of potential challenge.
	 If you let the dice have their way and the result is a 
large number of monsters or a powerful creature with 
a high challenge rating, the generated encounter might 
be too difficult or dangerous for the characters in their 
present circumstances. They might want to flee to avoid 
contact, or not to approach any closer after perceiving the 
monsters from a distance.
	 You also have the freedom to adjust the numbers, but it’s 
important to remember that not every encounter involving 
a monster needs to result in combat. An encounter might 
indeed be the prelude to a battle, a negotiation for a 
devil deal, or some other interaction. What happens next 
depends on what the characters try, or what you decide is 
bound to occur.
Devil Names
While running these encounters or Baldur’s Gate: 
Descent into Avernus, you might need to come up with 
a devil’s name on the fly. Use the Devil Names table to 
create an original devil name by combining any first part 
of a name with any second part.
Devil Names
d20
First Part
Second Part
1
Zam
azad
2
Uz
ich
3
Hral
aaz
4
Bal
azel
5
Maa’t
uzaat
6
Nilv
ayaz
7
Azt
uzoor
8
Raark
akzaar
9
Toz
iz
10
Bel
och
11
Kol
ath
12
Kel
al
13
Mul
il
14
Zuu’t
ul
15
Taa’z
och
16
Mul
ak
17
Xith
or
18
Zok
ir
19
Zaa’t
ub
20
Xaal
ix

--- PAGE 5 ---
Chapter 1 | Avernus Encounters
4
Chapter 1: Avernus Encounters
The following encounters can occur anywhere in 
the wastes of Avernus as the characters move between 
locations or rest. For a description and history of Avernus, 
the first layer of the Nine Hells, see Baldur’s Gate: 
Descent into Avernus.
Avernus Encounters
d100
Encounter
01–05
And Now, the Weather
06–10
Blood War Battle
11–15
Boney Grab Bag
16–20
Chain Rider
21–24
Cohort in Camp
25–29
Corrupted Salvage
30–34
Crater Raiders
35–38
Debts Paid
39–43
Demon Band
44–48
Demon Horde or Devil Legion
49–53
Demon or Devil Prisoner
54–58
Derelict War Machine
59–63
Devil Squad
64–68
Dretch Marks
69–73
Fiendish Betrayal
74–78
Hell Hound Pack
79–83
Infernal Pursuits
84–87
Pool of Duplicity
88–92
Pool of Ichor
93–96
Poppet Masters
97–100
Stirge Swarm
Encounter Descriptions
Following are the encounters in alphabetical order.
And Now, the Weather
A delusional chaotic neutral human mage who calls 
himself the Magnificent Meteorologist sits atop a 
blackened boulder on the plains of Avernus in perfect 
peace. When the characters meet him, he hums a 
nonsensical incantation and makes a perfectly accurate 
weather prediction. If he predicts a malign result, he 
clucks his tongue in sympathy, gives a vague description 
of the weather effect, then cheerfully bids the characters 
good day and wishes them luck on their quest.
	 Roll on the table below to determine the upcoming 
weather. This weather begins 2d12 hours later, and lasts 
for 1d20 hours.
Avernus Weather
1d6
Weather
1
Clear Skies. The weather is hot, but unremarkable.
2
Acid Rain. Terrible, sickly green storm clouds swirl in 
the sky. A creature takes 1d6 damage at the start of 
every hour it spends outside.
3
Searing Heat. The air feels like it’s on fire. A creature 
must succeed on a DC 10 Constitution saving throw 
at the start of every hour it spends outside or gain 
one level of exhaustion. Creatures resistant to fire 
damage have advantage on this save, and creatures 
immune to fire damage automatically succeed.
4
Abyssal Smog. Miasma blankets the land. A creature 
must succeed on a DC 13 Constitution saving throw 
at the start of every hour it spends outside or be 
poisoned for 1 hour. A creature that spends 3 hours 
in a row poisoned in this way gains a random form of 
short-term madness (see “Madness” in chapter 8 of 
the Dungeon Master’s Guide).
5
Stygian Humidity. A wave of lethargy envelops 
the land as the waters of the River Styx permeate 
the air itself. A creature must succeed on a DC 10 
Intelligence saving throw at the start of every hour 
it spends outside or forget one memory. The player 
describes the memory before it fades from their 
character’s mind.
6
Scattered Meteor Showers. Hundreds of minute 
meteorites hurtle through the sky and impact 
explosively upon the ground. Once during the meteor 
shower (at a time of the DM’s choosing), all creatures 
within a 500-foot radius of a point chosen by the DM 
must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or take 21 
(6d6) fire damage and 21 (6d6) bludgeoning damage, 
or half as much damage on a successful save.

--- PAGE 6 ---
Chapter 1 | Avernus Encounters
5
	 The characters may find the Magnificent Meteorologist 
again anywhere, as his boulder magically moves from 
place to place when no one is watching.
Blood War Battle
A battle between a devil squad (see “Devil Squad”) and a 
demon band (see “Demon Band”) is in the characters’ path. 
Roll any die. On an even result, the devils are winning the 
battle. On an odd result, the demons are winning.
Demons
The demons attack the characters and devils alike. Each 
flees when reduced to half its hit points.
Devils
If the devils are losing the battle and notice the 
characters, the fiends offer a deal to get the characters 
to fight for them. Otherwise the devils take no heed of 
the characters until the demons are defeated or the 
characters attack the devils first. If the characters have no 
deal with the devils, once the demons are put down, the 
devils turn and attack the characters. The devils flee when 
more than half their number fall.
Boney Grab Bag
These enormous piles of bone are scattered throughout 
Avernus, evidence of the ongoing Blood War. A character 
who spends 10 minutes searching the pile and makes a 
successful DC 12 Wisdom (Perception) check finds an 
item on the following table:
d20
Item
1
A set of bone pipes
2
Bag of 1,000 ball bearings
3
Charlatan’s die (see appendix B)
4
Crossbow, hand
5
Crossbow, light
6
Glass eyeball that looks about of its own accord and 
can roll around
7
Gold monocle frame without the lens
8
Lock of trickery (see appendix B)
9
Mariner’s armor
10
Money bag with 80 pp
11
Parchment (one sheet)
12
Quartz (50 gp)
13
Silver necklace with a gemstone pendant (250 gp)
14
Silver ring (20 gp)
15
Small chest containing 9000 sp
16
Small cloth doll skewered with needles
17
Small pocket mirror that slowly fogs over while held
18
Spell scroll of guidance
19
Warhammer
20
Waterskin
	 A maximum of five items can be found in the bone pile. 
If the characters spend more than 10 minutes searching 
the pile, roll for another encounter.
Chain Rider
A chain devil mounted on a wyvern flies overhead. 
These fearsome creatures are responsible for patrolling 
the skies above Avernus on behalf of Zariel. Roll a d4 to 
determine the fiend’s reaction to the party:
1.	
It circles around the party once then flies off quickly 
in a new direction.
2.	
It lands 50 feet in front of the party and demands 
to know what they are doing. It is satisfied with any 
answer that sounds reasonable.
3.	
It lands 50 feet in front of the party and accuses them 
of working to bring down Zariel. A successful DC 20 
Charisma (Deception or Persuasion) check convinces 
it otherwise, else it attacks.
4.	
It swoops down and attacks immediately.
Cohort in Camp
Camped on a low mesa overlooking the area is the 
9th Cohort of the 497th Infantry Legion (9/497). It is 
commanded by a proud and pitiless chain devil named 
Signifier Hraxioch.
	 The 497th Legion, nicknamed “Unholy Triumph,” is one 
of several that Zariel has deployed full time to search for 
her lost sword. The 9th Cohort came here a few days ago 
and began searching the surrounding area.
Cohort Composition
The 9th Cohort, like all devil cohorts, consists of exactly 
one hundred devils divided into ten lances.
	 There are seven assault lances, each comprising ten 
bearded devils. Each lance has a designated leader, 
called the optio.
	 There are two shield lances, each comprising ten 
merregons (see appendix A). Each lance has a designated 
leader, called the optio.
	 There is one command lance, comprising Signifier 
Hraxioch, a cambion quartermaster (known as the 
armicustos), a spined devil signaler, and seven imp 
auxiliaries.
Camp Layout
The camp consists of twelve tents, all made of pale 
leather neatly stretched over bronze tent poles. Anyone 
examining the leather and who makes a successful DC 
13 Wisdom (Medicine) check determines it is made from 
humanoid skin.
Disposition
The cohort is carefully observing the surrounding area 
and certainly notices the characters unless they are 
invisible or travelling very stealthily. There is a 50 percent 
chance that Hraxioch sends an assault lance out to arrest 
the characters and bring them back to camp. This chance 
rises to 100 percent if the characters engage in combat 
within sight of the camp.
	 Hraxioch interrogates the characters rigorously, 
demanding to know how they came to Avernus, what they 
want, and if they know anything about Zariel’s sword. If 
the characters give satisfactory answers, Hraxioch lets 
them leave.
	 If the characters destroy the assault lance sent to arrest 
them, the cohort breaks camp and starts following the 
party, waiting for the right time to attack in force.

--- PAGE 7 ---
Chapter 1 | Avernus Encounters
6
Corrupted Salvage
An infernal war machine (a Devil’s Ride in appendix B of 
Baldur’s Gate: Descent into Avernus) is impaled upon a 
jagged spike of stone jutting from the Avernian landscape. 
Strange green ichor dribbles from the damaged war 
machine. The previous rider of this war machine shoved a 
whole quasit into the machine’s intake valve in a desperate 
attempt to get a last burst of power out of it, but the attempt 
backfired—and corrupted the remains of the Devil’s Ride.
	 If this war machine is repaired (such as by the 
salamanders of the Firesnake Forge in Mahadi’s 
Wandering Emporium), it has a random demonic boon 
and a demonic bane. Roll a d4 twice to determine a 
random boon and bane.
Demonic Boons Table
d4
Boon
1
The machine can gain the effects of a Demon Ichor 
Boost for free once per day.
2
The machine has two souls trapped within it. A soul 
can be consumed to replicate the effects of using a 
soul coin.
3
The machine has an Acidic Bile Sprayer weapon that 
can be used by the machine’s driver. This doesn’t count 
against the number of weapons the machine can have.
4
Whenever the machine takes damage from a creature 
within 5 feet of it, the creature that damaged it takes 
the same amount of damage in return.
Demonic Banes Table
d4
Bane
1
The machine needs additional soul power to run, and 
leeches off of its driver’s soul. Every time a creature 
inserts a soul coin, its hit point maximum is reduced 
by 1d10 points. Only a greater restoration spell or 
similar magic can reverse this hit point loss.
2
The machine oozes green liquid at all times, making 
its surface slick. Whenever the machine suffers a 
mishap, all creatures on the machine must succeed on 
a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or be flung 5 feet from 
the machine and fall prone.
3
The machine’s insides have been twisted up by demonic 
corruption, making the machine mishap prone. The 
machine’s mishap threshold is reduced by 10.
4
The machine sprays a massive plume of thick black 
exhaust while running. The exhaust is visible in the air 
from up to a mile away, and the driver must make a 
successful DC 10 Constitution saving throw at the end 
of every hour while driving the machine or become 
poisoned for the next hour.
Crater Raiders
The party discovers a 60-foot-diameter blasted crater at 
the center of which is a faintly glowing meteor recently 
fallen from the stormy sky above. The 15-foot-spherical 
meteor is embedded halfway into the ground. The 
scorched ground within 20 feet of the meteor is difficult 
terrain. If the party travels into the crater, roll 1d4 to 
determine the nature of the meteor:
1.	
Behind the meteor is a nest of 1d4 hellwasps (see 
appendix A). In addition, the meteor generates 
unstable energy. Any spell cast within the crater has 
a 1 in 10 chance of generating a wild magic effect 
(use the Wild Magic Surge table in chapter 3 of the 
Player’s Handbook).
2.	
The meteor is plagued with demonic magic. 
Characters within 5 feet of the meteor must succeed 
on a DC 12 Constitution saving throw or suffer a 
flesh-warping effect (see chapter 3 of Baldur’s Gate: 
Descent into Avernus). The effect can be removed 
with any magic that removes a curse. In addition, the 
glowing material oozing from the meteor has all the 
properties of demon ichor (see chapter 3 of Baldur’s 
Gate: Descent into Avernus).
3.	
The meteor is an infernally enchanted stone golem. It 
attacks any character that comes within 30 feet of it.
4.	
The meteor is plagued with infernal magic. 
Characters within 10 feet of the meteor must succeed 
on a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw or suffer the effects 
of short-term madness (see chapter 8 of the Dungeon 
Master’s Guide). In addition, on a failed save, any 
saving throw made against the pervasive evil of the 
plane is made with disadvantage to the roll (see 
chapter 3 of Baldur’s Gate: Descent into Avernus). 
This effect lasts for 24 hours.
Debts Paid
A cambion disguised as an elderly human male 
approaches the characters, pathetically holding his worn

--- PAGE 8 ---
Chapter 1 | Avernus Encounters
7
hat in his hands. He introduces himself as Dante and 
claims he was forced to play in a game of three-dragon 
ante to earn money to pay off his spouse’s drinking 
debt, but he lost everything he owned and is now stuck 
in Avernus in service to an “evil devil.” He asks for the 
characters’ help in playing a rematch of three-dragon ante 
so he can buy his way out of service.
	 The cambion enjoys toying with unsuspecting folk and 
getting them to gamble in his games. His disguise and 
lies are detectable with a successful DC 18 Wisdom 
(Insight) check.
	 If the characters agree to help, Dante takes them to a 
cave to play the game, which is occupied by an incubus 
and a succubus against whom the characters can bet. 
Each game costs an ante of one soul coin and is made 
by having all players make opposing Intelligence checks 
(adding in their proficiency bonuses if they are proficient 
with the game). The winner gets the pot. A character who 
does not have any soul coins can still play by offering a kiss 
to the fiends if the character loses. The fiends try to cheat 
by charming the characters then convincing them to fold.
	 If the characters win, they can give their earnings to 
Dante to pay off his debts. He, of course, keeps every coin.
Demon Band
The characters encounter one or more demons looking 
for a fight. Roll or choose on the Demon Band table to 
determine which demons the characters encounter. These 
demons attack as soon as they notice the characters. 
Each flees when it is reduced to half its hit points.
Demon Band
d8
Demons
1
4d10 dretches
2
1 barlgura and 2d6 dretches
3
2 barlguras
4
2 chasmes
5
3 vrocks
6
1 hezrou and 2d4 manes
7
1 glabrezu and 2d4 manes
8
1 nalfeshnee
Demon Horde or Devil Legion
The characters encounter a legion of devils or a horde of 
demons in their path (your choice). This force consists 
of hundreds of fiends. Roll a d4. On a 1 or 2, the force is 
marching toward their next battle. On a 3, the force is 
resting. On a 4, the characters encounter a battle between 
a devil legion and a demon horde.
	 A successful DC 15 group Dexterity (Stealth) check 
sneaks by the force unnoticed. Characters who fail this 
check or choose not to sneak by grab the attention of 
the army and a demon band (see “Demon Band”) or 
devil squad (“Devil Squad”) appears and attacks. At the 
start of every third round after combat begins, another 
demon band or devil squad arrives. If the characters flee, 
the devils they battle give chase. Use the chase rules in 
“Chases” in chapter 8 of the Dungeon Master’s Guide and 
the Avernus Chase Complications table.
Avernus Chase Complications
d20
Complication
1
A dune made of bones and teeth is in your path. 
Use 10 feet of movement to go around it or make a 
DC 12 Dexterity (Acrobatics) check to move over it. 
On a failed check, you fall prone and take 5 (1d10) 
piercing damage.
2
A bubbling tar pit is in your path. Use 15 feet 
of movement to go around it or make a DC 12 
Strength (Athletics) check to leap over it. On a 
failed check, you slip into the pit and take 11 (2d10) 
fire damage.
3
A puddle of demon ichor is in your path. Use 10 
feet of movement to go around it or make a DC 10 
Strength (Athletics) check to leap across it. On a 
failed check, you land in the pool (see chapter 3 of 
Baldur’s Gate: Descent into Avernus).
4
A pit of quicksand is before you. Make a DC 10 
Wisdom (Perception) check to notice it. If the 
check succeeds, you avoid it. If the check fails, you 
fall into the hazard (see “Wilderness Hazards” in 
chapter 5 of the Dungeon Master’s Guide).
5
A group of nupperibos (see appendix A) are in your 
path. Use 5 feet of movement to go around them or 
make a DC 11 Dexterity (Stealth) check to sneak by. 
On a failed check, one of the fiends makes a claw 
attack against you (+5 to hit; 6 (1d6 + 3) piercing 
damage).
6
A hell hound chases after you.
7
A small stream of water from the River Styx is in 
your path. Make a DC 10 Strength (Athletics) check 
to jump over it. On a failed check, you touch the 
waters of the River Styx (see chapter 3 of Baldur’s 
Gate: Descent into Avernus).
8
A sudden chasm catches you by surprise. Make 
a DC 10 Dexterity saving throw to navigate the 
impediment. On a failed save, you fall 1d4 × 10 
feet, taking 3 (1d6) bludgeoning damage per 10 feet 
fallen as normal, and land prone.
9
You run through a ruin with uneven ground. Make 
a DC 10 Dexterity (Acrobatics) check. On a failed 
check, you fall prone.
10
An infernal war machine rushes toward you. Make a 
DC 18 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, you 
take 28 (8d6) bludgeoning damage and fall prone.
11–20
No complication.
Demon or Devil Prisoner
The characters come upon a demon band (see “Demon 
Band”) or a devil squad (see “Devil Squad”) that captured 
and are interrogating a devil or demon respectively. Roll 
or choose on the Fiend Prisoner table to determine the 
type of fiend they have captured.
	 The fiend has only a quarter of its hit points remaining. If 
the prisoner is a demon notices the characters, it begs for 
help, promising to serve the characters. If the characters 
free the demon, it follows them. Roll any die at the start of 
each hour it spends with the characters. If an even number 
is rolled, the demon remains loyal to the characters.  If an

--- PAGE 9 ---
Chapter 1 | Avernus Encounters
8
odd number is rolled, the demon betrays the characters 
the first chance it gets. The demon prisoner also betrays 
the characters if they encounter more demons.
	 If the prisoner is a devil and notices the characters, it 
offers a deal for anything in its power in exchange for the 
characters fighting for their freedom.
Fiend Prisoner
d6
Demon
Devil
1
Quasit
Imp
2
Barlgura
Spined devil
3
Chasme
Bearded devil
4
Vrock
Barbed devil
5
Hezrou
Chain devil
6
Glabrezu
Bone devil
Derelict War Machine
The characters see a Tormentor model infernal war 
machine (see appendix B of Baldur’s Gate: Descent into 
Avernus). The front of the buggy is covered by a sculpted 
bronze devil face with a red crystal tube emerging from 
the gaping mouth, resembling a tongue.
	 The whole vehicle is rusted, and the rear of the buggy 
has been torn away completely. The engine has been 
destroyed and cannot be repaired.
Soul Canon
Any character examining the machine and who makes a 
successful DC 15 Intelligence (Arcana) check determines 
that the crystal tube is a weapon in working order that 
can be detached from the main chassis.
	 Another successful DC 15 Intelligence (Arcana) check 
safely detaches the tube. On a failed roll the tube explodes 
and everyone within 10 feet must make a DC 12 Dexterity 
saving throw, taking 5 (1d10) piercing damage on a failed 
save from shrapnel.
	 The tube is a small soul canon. It is 2 inches wide, 3 feet 
long, and weighs 25 pounds. It has a range of 200/600 
feet and inflicts 8d10 force damage on a hit. It is a martial 
ranged weapon. A soul coin is needed to fire the canon 
and is consumed in the process.
Treasure
Inside the buggy are two seats holding the badly 
decomposed corpses of a pair of cambions. A successful 
DC 5 Wisdom (Perception) check locates a soul coin in a 
leather purse and a platinum ring on one of the cambion’s 
skeletal fingers. This ring burns the sign of Asmodeus 
onto any surface.
Devil Squad
The characters encounter a squad of devils patrolling the 
battlegrounds looking for a fight. Each devil squad has 
a leader and troops. Roll or choose twice on the Devil 
Squad table to determine both.
	 When the characters encounter the squad, there is a 
50 percent chance the fiends do not attack right away. 
The squad leader may offer a deal to let the characters 
pass without further incident or not see the characters 
as any kind of threat.
	 If a fight breaks out, the devils flee when more than half 
their number fall.
Devil Squad
d10
Leader
Troops
1–5
1 barbed devil
1d4 + 1 spined devils
6–9
1 chain devil
1d4 + 1 bearded devils
10
1 bone devil
1d4 + 1 merregons (see appendix A)
Dretch Marks
A narrow crack in the ground here opens to a large cavern 
beneath filled with sixty-six dretches that attack anyone 
who comes within reach. Any character with a passive 
Wisdom (Perception) score of 13 or higher notices 
movement in the dark crack, but anyone else is surprised 
by the attack. The dretches attempt to grapple the 
characters and drag them into the cavern to be torn apart.
	 The dretches, survivors of a great battle, have caught 
and killed numerous victims. Amidst bone and clothing 
scraps at the bottom of their cavern is treasure. Roll a 
d12 and consult the following table. The characters find 
everything up to and including the entry rolled.
d12
Item
1
A single caltrop made from bone
2
Bottle of ink
3
2000 cp
4
800 sp
5
60 gp
6
An iron and gold holy symbol devoted to an unknown 
god (worth 100 gp)
7
Pole (10-foot)
8
Ear horn of hearing (see appendix B)
9
Vial of basic poison
10
Moon-touched longsword (see appendix B)
11
Two soul coins
12
Boots of speed
Fiendish Betrayal
A wounded female human knight who escaped Elturel 
named Bera Tallen approaches the characters, requesting 
their help. She explains she barely escaped while one of 
her group of escapees betrayed and murdered the rest. 
Bera doesn’t know why, but the traitor, who is not far 
behind, now chases her. If the party agrees to help, roll a 
d4 to determine the nature of the encounter:

--- PAGE 10 ---
Chapter 1 | Avernus Encounters
9
1.	
The traitor, a male human evoker (see appendix 
A) named Pergon Uro, has fallen under the mind 
twisting effects of the plane, which has changed his 
alignment to lawful evil. Pero can be convinced of 
this with a successful DC 14 Charisma (Persuasion) 
check. Casting the dispel evil and good spell on the 
traitor also removes the effect.
2.	
The traitor is a cambion in human form who took the 
place of the group’s real companion days ago. It carries 
an uncommon magical item of the DM’s choice.
3.	
Bera is actually a warlock of the fiend (appendix 
A) who is has fallen under the pervasive evil of the 
plane. She betrayed her group and is trying to lure 
the party into a trap. Once the party confronts the 
false traitor, a lawful good female human priest 
named Teru Kang, the warlock attempts to kill them 
all in the name of her patron. Casting the dispel 
evil and good spell on Bera removes the pervasive 
evil effects. Bera carries an amulet of proof against 
detection and location.
4.	
Bera and the “traitor” are both cambions attempting 
to hunt and kill each other. Bera is a spawn of Graz’zt, 
and the other is a soldier for the Nine Hells. Bera 
carries an uncommon magical item of the DM’s choice.
Hell Hound Pack
A pack of 2d6 hell hounds roams Avernus, looking 
for injured and easy prey. If the hounds notice the 
characters, they attack. Each fights until reduced to 10 
hit points then flees.
Infernal Pursuit
War is hell, and the Nine Hells are at war. If the endless 
Blood War were to spill into the Material Plane, all of 
Toril would become as inhospitable as Avernus. While 
traveling across the wastes, travelers must beware roving 
bands of demonic pillagers, and the devils that hunt them.
	 Roll a d4 to determine which marauding demons the 
characters encounter and which devils are pursuing 
them. Once the characters encounter the demons, the 
pursuing devils appear on initiative count 20 of the next 
round of combat. These devils are loyal servants of 
Zariel, and once the devils destroy the demons, they turn 
their attention upon the characters. If the characters are 
enemies of Zariel, they attack; if not, they try to make a 
deal with these hapless mortals.
Infernal Pursuit Encounters
d4
Marauders and Pursuers
1
The marauders are four rampaging dretches pursued 
by two no-nonsense imps.
2
The marauders are six quasits who stole war machine 
parts, pursued by four spined devils.
3
The marauders are a barlgura ridden by a quasit that 
killed a devil lieutenant, pursued by a bearded devil 
riding a nightmare.
4
The marauders are a pair of vrocks clutching a shiny 
idol worth 500 gp while flying at full speed away from 
a bone devil.
Pool of Duplicity
A mirthful arcanaloth named Vriz’blath perches on 
a crag overlooking a pool of bubbling green ooze, not 
unlike the Progenitor Goo (see chapter 3 of Baldur’s 
Gate: Descent into Avernus). When the characters 
approach, Vriz’blath casts mind blank upon itself, then 
calls out to the adventurers and asks them to behold the 
Pool of Infernal Marvels.
	 Every 30 seconds, on the dot, a creature pops out of the 
pools, then splashes back in. The creature is rarely the 
same; some examples of creatures could include a three-
eyed fish, an abyssal chicken, a perfect sphere of green 
goop, or some other unusual creature.

--- PAGE 11 ---
Chapter 1 | Avernus Encounters
10
	 Vriz’blath asks the characters 
if they wish to make a wager; 
if two different creatures pop 
out of the goop in a row, the 
characters win the bet. If 
two identical creatures pop 
out of the goo in a row, they 
lose. The arcanaloth has a 
total of 1,000 gp and five 
soul coins to wager.
	 The trick is, however, there are 
no creatures hopping out of the pool. Every 
minute, Vriz’blath secretly casts minor illusion, subtly 
performing the spell’s somatic components while holding 
a tiny bit of fleece. A creature can see through the illusion 
by making a successful DC 17 Intelligence (Investigation) 
check as an action.
	 Vriz’blath lets the characters win the first bet to get 
them confident, then sets up a vicious losing streak. If the 
arcanaloth’s deception is revealed, it casts chain lightning 
in a panic, then finger of death, and finally dimension door 
to flee if its assailants are undeterred.
Pool of Ichor
The ongoing Blood War has left substantial pools of 
demon ichor all over Avernus. The pool at this location is 
50 feet across and fills the end of the ravine. Characters 
may choose to collect the ichor in a container as it can 
be used for infernal war machine fuel (see appendix B of 
Baldur’s Gate: Descent into Avernus). It takes one round 
to fill a skin or flask with this liquid.
	 Unfortunately, horrifying things can form in the ichor. 
Each round that the pool is disturbed there is a 25 
percent chance of a hostile demonic creature emerging. 
Roll a d4 to determine the creature:
1.	
A chasme
2.	
A glabrezu
3.	
A hezrou
4.	
A vrock
	 Only one fiend inhabits the pool.
Poppet Masters
A coven of night hags clusters around a table, sewing 
together small doll-like “toys.” They are making poppets 
(see appendix B), which are dolls that can be infused 
with the properties of a person and thereby used to 
manipulate or hurt a person from a distance. One poppet 
can be purchased for one soul coin. To make a poppet, the 
character must supply the hags with an item that belonged 
to the person they want the poppet to impersonate: this 
can be a scrap of clothing, a lock of hair, a piece of jewelry, 
or any item that denotes sentiment or identity.
Stirge Swarm
A swarm of 10d8 stirges gorge themselves on the 
bodies of 3d6 deceased commoners who escaped from 
Elturel. The stirges ignore the characters as long as they 
don’t come within 50 feet of the beasts, otherwise the 
stirges attack. Roll a d4 to determine what treasures the 
commoners had:
d4
Item
1
Assorted coins worth a total of 10d8 gp
2
A purse containing 5 moonstones (50 gp each)
3
A marble statuette of Torm (200 gp)
4
A periapt of wound closure

--- PAGE 12 ---
Chapter 2 | River Styx Encounters
11
Chapter 2: River Styx Encounters
The following encounters can occur as the 
characters rest or travel on or near the River Styx in 
Avernus. See Baldur’s Gate: Descent into Avernus for a 
description of the river and its effects.
River Styx Encounters
d20
Encounter
1
Archmage Alchemist
2
Cave of the Rationalist
3
Celestial Spy
4
Days of Hunter
5
Demon Skiff
6
Devil Patrol Boat
7
Drowned Satchel
8
Fapplestamp Twins
9
For the Glory of Ysgard
10
Gramma Valor’s Barge
11
Hydroloth
12
I’m the Captain Now
13
Lost Assassin
14
Malignant Tributary
15
Naval Battle
16
Onshore Barrage
17
Released
18
Soul Shower
19
Wandering Spirit
20
Yeenoghu’s Monster
Encounter Descriptions
Following are the encounters in alphabetical order.
Archmage Alchemist
Vandalo Urond (neutral evil male human archmage) 
stands on the banks of the River Styx using the mage 
hand spell to fill vials with Stygian water. Vandalo is a 
Red Wizard alchemist in his sixties with a shaved head 
covered in tattoos. He uses the Stygian water to create 
new potions. When speaking about magic or magic items, 
Vandalo gets excited and shares as much information as 
possible.
	 If Vandalo sees the characters, he waves them down, 
asking if they’d like to see his wares. Vandalo carries 
a Heward’s handy haversack filled with all manner of 
potions. He is willing to sell characters any common, 
uncommon, or rare potions from chapter 7 of the Dungeon 
Master’s Guide for the prices listed on the Vandalo’s 
Potions table. If the characters buy a potion, he’s happy to 
cast the identify spell on any objects they have for free.
	 If the characters attack Vandalo, he immediately flees, 
using the teleport spell to get back to Thay.
Vandalo’s Potions
Potion Rarity
Price
Common
50 gp
Uncommon
100 gp
Rare
500 gp

--- PAGE 13 ---
Chapter 2 | River Styx Encounters
12
Cave of the Rationalist
The characters pass a narrow cave, and a quavering voice 
calls out, “Is someone there?” Inside is the ghost of a bald, 
craggy-faced man. He introduces himself as Professor 
Horatio Hiddlethwaite, and says he is from a place called 
“Sid Knee” in the land of “Ustraya.” He has not heard of 
any of the cities or lands that the characters know.
	 Horatio says he recognizes this place as “the classic 
conception of the Nine Hells,” but since he is a rationalist 
and doesn’t believe in the Nine Hells, he is convinced he is 
suffering from a delusion.
Horatio’s Story
Horatio was a vain and selfish man in life whose soul 
floated down to Avernus upon his untimely death. 
Normally the souls of the damned fall in the River Styx, 
However, Horatio was only lightly weighed down by sin 
and was blown off course by a breeze. He has been hiding 
out ever since.
Horatio’s Help
Horatio is cowardly but has done some exploration. He 
can tell the characters the location of one nearby hazard 
or other significant landmark, but the characters must 
provide him with some emotional gratification first. They 
can do that by acknowledging his superior intellect, 
validating his view that this is all a delusion, expressing 
great sympathy for his misfortunes.
	 Horatio refuses to travel with the characters, as this 
would “pander” to his delusion.
Celestial Spy
Allisatillmia, a planetar, is in Avernus to watch the Blood 
War and Zariel. The angel has orders from superiors 
in Mount Celestia to remain passive in the conflict and 
not interfere directly. She stays invisible as she watches 
the characters unless the characters travel with Lulu 
or carry the Sword of Zariel, in which case Allisatillmia 
appears before them. The angel introduces herself and 
asks if the characters plan to redeem Zariel (and because 
of her Divine Awareness trait, she knows the truth of 
their answer). If the characters answer with honesty 
that they plan to redeem Zariel, the angel bestows a 
blessing of protection on the character who answers (see 
“Blessings” in chapter 7 of the Dungeon Master’s Guide) 
before turning invisible and going back to her work. If the 
characters attack, the angel flees.
Days of Hunter
The characters hear a disembodied voice say, “Have 
you encountered an elven vampire in your travels?” The 
speaker is an invisible orthon (see appendix A) named 
Balioch, who has been tasked by Bel to locate Jander 
Sunstar (see chapter 3 of Baldur’s Gate: Descent into 
Avernus). The orthon is currently invisible.
	 If the characters know where Jander is and tell the 
orthon, it heads there immediately. Otherwise, it decides 
to allow itself a few hours of recreation, and says:
“I will give you a reasonable chance. You may have a one-
hour head start before I come for you. If you can evade me 
for four hours, you may live.”
The orthon then waits for the characters to leave. When 
they are 200 feet away, it fires a tracking bolt from its 
infernal crossbow at the character with the lowest 
apparent AC. If it misses, it keeps firing until it hits.
Orthon Tactics
When the hour is up, the orthon comes after the party. 
After locating them, it plays cat-and-mouse with them 
for a while, firing concussion bolts ahead of them, or 
entangling the weakest member of the party and taunting 
the rest to leave that person behind.
	 When it tires of this game it sets out to destroy the 
party. Its tactic is to weaken them from a distance with 
concussion and acid bolts, before tying them down with 
entanglement, then closing to finish them off with its 
infernal dagger.
Treasure
The orthon has five soul coins.
Demon Skiff
The characters encounter a skiff of demons looking 
for a fight. Roll or choose on the Demon Crew table to 
determine what demons are on the boat. These demons 
attack characters they notice. Each flees when it is 
reduced to half its hit points.
	 The boat has the statistics of a keelboat (see “Owning 
a Ship” in chapter 5 of the Dungeon Master’s Guide) and 
is piloted by a merrenoloth (see appendix A) that tries 
to stay out of combat. The demons pay the merrenoloth 
50 gp a day to ferry them. If the characters offer the 
merrenoloth more than this, the yugoloth betrays the 
demons.
Demon Crew
d6
Demons
1
4d10 dretches
2
1 barlgura and 2d6 dretches
3
2 barlguras and 2d4 manes
4
1 hezrou and 1d4 + 2 dretches
5
1 hezrou and 2d4 manes
6
1 glabrezu and 2d4 manes
Devil Patrol Boat
The characters encounter a boat of devils patrolling 
the river looking for a fight. Roll or choose on the Devil 
Crew table to determine the number and type of devils 
on the boat. The boat has the statistics of a keelboat (see 
“Owning a Ship” in chapter 5 of the Dungeon Master’s 
Guide) and is piloted by a merrenoloth (see appendix A) 
that tries to stay out of combat.
	 When the characters encounter the boat, there is a 50 
percent chance the fiends do not attack right away. The 
devils may offer a deal to let the characters pass without 
further incident. If a fight breaks out, the devils flee when 
more than half their number fall.
	 The devils pay the merrenoloth 100 gp a day to ferry 
them. If the characters offer the merrenoloth more than 
this, the yugoloth betrays the devils.

--- PAGE 14 ---
Chapter 2 | River Styx Encounters
13
Devil Crew
d10
Crew
1–5
1d4 + 2 bearded devils
6–8
2 barbed devils and 2d4 lemures
9–10
1 chain devil and 2d4 lemures
Drowned Satchel
A dyed-green leather satchel has washed upon the 
river’s shore. Inside is a small pouch filled with dried 
wildflowers, a gold locket, and a bloated, waterlogged 
journal. Inside the locket is a portrait of a young man. 
The journal is mostly unreadable, but there is a name, 
“Ophelia,” inscribed on the inside of the cover.
Treasure
The locket is worth 15 gp.
Fapplestamp Twins
The rocky ground before the party erupts as an enormous 
bulette burrows out. The bulette goes unnaturally still, as 
if frozen, and the characters hear a whirring sound that 
slowly winds down.
	 Give the characters a round to react. After that a hatch 
on top of the bulette pops open and two neutral rock 
gnome mages, one male and one female, stick their 
heads out. They introduce themselves as Zook and Ella 
Fapplestamp.
The Fapplestamp Story
The Fapplestamps are twins from Faerûn. Zook is a 
successful miner, while Ella is a brilliant artificer who 
converted a dead bulette into this extraordinary mining 
machine. With it, they enjoyed enormous success, but 
they wanted more.
	 Zook became convinced that the ground in Avernus 
would be full of diamonds. They arranged for a Red 
Wizard to teleport them here with their amazing machine. 
The same wizard was meant to be meet them a tenday 
later to bring them home, but missed the rendezvous.
	 Believing themselves abandoned, the Fapplestamps 
have travelled across Avernus for the last few months, 
seeking a way home while continuing to mine for 
diamonds.
	 They buy provisions from the Wandering Emporium. 
In combat, their machine has the same statistics as a 
regular bulette. Despite their rather dire situation, the 
Fapplestamps are both unflappably optimistic.
The Fapplestamp Offer
Assuming a friendly dialogue is established, the 
Fapplestamps offer to take the characters to any one 
location in Avernus in return for their help getting back to 
Faerûn.
	 Although bulette is enormous, much of the inside of the 
creature is filled with complex machinery. There is room 
for the characters inside the machine, but it is cozy.
Treasure
As well as various provisions and tools, the Fapplestamps 
have 5,000 gp worth of rough diamonds, as well as ten 
polished and cut diamonds worth 400 gp each.
For the Glory of Ysgard
The Heroic Domains of Ysgard are home to the souls of 
those who can imagine no greater afterlife than valorous 
combat unending. A group of warriors from that plane 
of eternal combat have traveled to Avernus in search of 
greater glory still. In the minds of these warriors, bards 
will sing songs about the heroic deeds they perform in 
Avernus in the beer halls of Ysgard for all eternity.
	 Dressed in animal hides and mighty horned helmets, 
these overzealous warriors dock on the banks of the Styx 
in a mighty galley the moment they see a group of devils, 
and attack all in sight. When they see the characters, 
they assume they are also foes, and attack instantly. A 
character that tries to convince the Ysgardians that they 
aren’t enemies can make a DC 20 Charisma (Persuasion) 
check as an action, halting their attack on a success.
	 Roll a d4 to determine what kind of warriors emerge 
from the Ysgardian galley. If the warriors are bested in 
combat or convinced that their attack was mistaken, their 
leader gives the characters a horn of Valhalla that can 
summon spectral warriors of Ysgard to aid in battle.
Ysgardian Warriors
d4
Warriors
1
2d4 + 2 berserkers led by a bandit captain named 
Gallart. The horn of Valhalla is silver.
2
3d4 + 3 berserkers led by a gladiator named Hilda. 
The horn of Valhalla is brass.
3
4d4 + 4 berserkers led by a frost giant named 
Grogdiabelle. The horn of Valhalla is bronze.
4
5d4 + 5 berserkers led by an empyrean named 
Thyrsus. The horn of Valhalla is iron.
Gramma Valor’s Barge
A night hag known as Gramma Valor drives her supply 
barge, Pus Purveyor, through Avernus upon the River 
Styx, selling supplies and smuggling contraband 
across enemy lines for the highest bidder. She has no 
allegiances, save for her loyalty to her own profits. Her 
barge is crewed by her “sons,” a group of ten unpleasant 
rutterkins (see appendix A). If the characters encounter 
them multiple times, Valor’s ship has 1d4 fewer rutterkins 
aboard each time, as the Blood War claims them.
	 Gramma Valor’s supply barge has all types of weapons, 
armor, and tools in the Player’s Handbook available for 
purchase, as well as several special items. Roll 1d4 to 
determine what type of special goods are available, rolled 
on the random magic items tables in chapter 7 of the 
Dungeon Master’s Guide.
Gramma Valor’s Special Goodies
d4
Item
1
Roll four times on Magic Item Table B. She sells these 
items for 1,000 gp each, or 500 gp for a single-use item.
2
Roll three times on Magic Item Table C. She sells these 
items for 1,500 gp each, or 750 gp for a single-use item.
3
Roll twice on Magic Item Table F. She sells these items 
for 2,000 gp each, or 1,000 gp for a single-use item.
4
Roll once on Magic Item Table G. She sells these items 
for 5,000 gp each, or 2,500 gp for a single-use item.

--- PAGE 15 ---
Chapter 2 | River Styx Encounters
14
Hydroloth
A hydroloth (see appendix A) swims on the river, looking 
for someone to hire it. If it spots the characters, the 
yugoloth approaches and makes a pitch to be hired as a 
guide and guardian. The hydroloth asks for 500 gp a day, 
but a successful DC 14 Charisma (Persuasion) check 
convinces the fiend to lower its rates to 250 gp a day. If the 
characters agree, the hydroloth serves them loyally each 
day provided it is paid and another party doesn’t offer the 
fiend a better deal (which the fiend immediately accepts).
	 If the characters refuse the hydroloth’s offer, the fiend 
attacks, hoping to force them into an agreement. The 
hydroloth fights until the characters accept a deal or it is 
reduced to 30 hit points then flees.
I’m the Captain Now
An abandoned boat floats slowly along the shore of the 
River Styx. If a character approaches within 20 feet of the 
boat, enemies appear and attack. Roll 1d4 to determine 
the type of enemy:
1.	
1d3 hell hounds
2.	
4d6 lemures
3.	
1d4 spined devils
4.	
1 mezzoloth
Cursed Oars
Inside the boat is a pair of smooth wooden oars. A detect 
magic spell marks them as holding a cursed enchantment. 
A character holding both oars must make a successful DC 
15 Wisdom saving throw or be affected by the fiendish 
curse. For the next 24 hours, the cursed creature is at 
disadvantage to Intelligence and Wisdom saving throws. 
In addition, they are poisoned whenever they are more 
than 100 feet away from the River Styx.
	 At the end of the 24 hours, the creature is transformed 
into a merrenoloth (see appendix A) contracted as the 
new captain of the abandoned ship. Though the oars 
and ship are immune to damage or magical effects, a 
character can be freed from the curse with a remove 
curse spell or similar effect.
Lost Assassin
Mei Wind (chaotic evil female human assassin affected 
by the feeblemind spell) wanders the banks of the River 
Styx wearing a blank expression. She attacks creatures 
that attack her first, but has a pleasant disposition 
otherwise. She remembers nothing about her personal 
history including her name, how she came to Avernus, 
and why she is in the Nine Hells. She cannot speak or 
communicate in any intelligible way, but if the characters 
are kind to her, Mei Wind travels with and aids them.
	 In truth Mei Wind is cultist of Baphomet who came to 
Avernus to prove herself to the Horned King. She believed 
if she killed Baphomet’s enemies, the demon prince would 
reward her by transforming her into a minotaur. That 
plan went awry when a devil cast Mei Wind into the River 
Styx, causing her to lose all her memories. If Mei Wind’s 
memories are restored, her mission comes back to her. 
She plays coy, but betrays the characters the first chance 
she gets, hoping to sacrifice them to Baphomet.
	 Mei Wind has a tattoo of a labyrinth on her back, which 
is only visible if she takes off her armor. A successful 
DC 15 Intelligence (Religion) check reveals elaborate 
labyrinths are associated with the demon lord Baphomet.
Malignant Tributary
The characters’ way is blocked by a slow-moving stream 
of bloody sludge that feeds into the Styx. The local fiends 
call it the Malignant Tributary. Rivers and pools like it well 
up from the ground all over Avernus, providing the devils 
with a ready source of nourishment.
	 The tributary is 20 feet wide and 9 feet deep at the 
midpoint. Swimming in it causes no harm, although it is 
quite repulsive.
	 Any character drinking from the river must make a 
DC 12 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the 
character takes a short-term madness condition (see 
“Madness” in chapter 8 of the Dungeon Master’s Guide).
	 On a successful save, the character gains one of these 
infernal traits (roll a d6):
1.	 The creature gains darkvision out to a range of 120 feet.
2.	 The creature can speak and understand Infernal.
3.	 The creature can communicate telepathically with any 
creature that understand a language within 120 feet.
4.	 The creature gains resistance to cold damage.
5.	 The creature gains resistance to bludgeoning, 
piercing, and slashing from nonmagical attacks that 
aren't silvered.
6.	 The creature gains immune to poison damage and the 
poisoned condition.
	 The trait lasts for 99 minutes. Any creature that 
drinks from the river again before taking a long rest 
automatically fails the saving throw.

--- PAGE 16 ---
Chapter 2 | River Styx Encounters
15
Naval Battle
A devil patrol boat (see “Devil Patrol Boat”) battles a demon 
skiff (see “Demon Skiff”) in the path of the characters. Roll 
any die. On an even result, the devils are winning the battle. 
On an odd result, the demons are winning.
Demons
The demons attack the characters and devils alike. Each 
flees when reduced to half its hit points.
Devils
If the devils are losing the battle and notice the 
characters, the fiends offer a deal to get the characters 
to fight for them. Otherwise the devils take no heed of 
the characters until the demons are defeated or the 
characters attack the devils first. If the characters have no 
deal with the devils, once the demons are put down, the 
devils turn and attack the characters. The devils flee when 
more than half their number fall.
Onshore Barrage
A group of fiends on the banks of the river notice the 
characters and hurl projectiles and fire at them. Each 
character must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving 
throw or take 22 (4d10) piercing damage and 22 (4d10) 
fire damage.
	 If the characters are on a boat, the creature piloting the 
boat must make a Dexterity check with vehicles (water). 
On a failure, the ship takes 22 (4d10) piercing damage 
and 22 (4d10) fire damage and catches on fire. While on 
fire, the ship and all creatures touching it take 5 (1d10) 
fire damage on initiative count 0. On a success, the ship 
takes half damage and is not on fire.
Released
While traveling the banks of the River Styx, the characters 
hear a plaintive, inhuman wail, followed by the crashing of 
waves and a peal of thunder. A kraken flails in the shallows 
of the Styx while a crew of yugoloths upon a galley made of 
pitch-black wood sails beside it, hurling harpoons.
	 A crew of ten mezzoloths commanded by a 
merrenoloth (see appendix A) are trying to use their 
tridents and cloudkill spells to subdue the kraken. The 
kraken has been reduced to half its hit points by the 
brawl, and is using its Lightning Storm action to try and 
destroy the yugoloths’ boat. The kraken must make a DC 
15 Intelligence saving throw at the start of each of its 
turns to resist the forgetful effects of the River Styx, as 
described in chapter 2 of the Dungeon Master’s Guide.
	 If the characters don’t get involved in the conflict, the 
kraken sinks the yugoloth galley after 1 minute of combat, 
unless it succumbs to the waters of the Styx, then leaves 
the river. When the kraken pulls itself out of the Styx, it 
crawls across Avernus searching for a lair where it can 
gather allies and plot its escape from the Nine Hells. Once 
the kraken finds a lair, regional effects begin to warp the 
area around it after 1d10 days.
	 The kraken is named Karraquas, and it doesn’t know 
how it found itself in the River Styx. It only knows that 
it was tearing apart a ship on the high seas one minute, 
and found itself in Avernus the next. If the characters are 
willing to become allies of the kraken, it helps them in 
their quest in exchange for favors, for the air in Avernus is 
dry and deadly to a creature of the deep sea.
Soul Shower
A huge number of screaming, translucent, humanoids 
shower down from the sky into the River Styx. These 
are the souls of the damned, recently deceased and now 
going to their fate. There are 4d6 x 10 souls in total, 
and it takes 1 minute for them all to fall into the river. 
Another 1 minute after the first, the souls begin crawling 
out of the river, transformed into lemures. They emerge 
at a rate of 2d6 per round and immediately attack any 
characters within sight.
Wandering Spirit
The characters spot a lost ghost (of a humanoid race of 
the DM’s choice) following the banks of the River Styx, 
trying to get out of Avernus to a safer plane of existence 
and better afterlife. Roll any die:
•	 On an even result, the ghost hails the characters and 
begs for an escort to the edge of Avernus so it can leave 
the Nine Hells. If the characters help, the grateful ghost 
gives one of the characters a charm of feather falling (see 
“Charms” in chapter 7 of the Dungeon Master’s Guide).
•	On an odd result, the ghost has been driven mad by its 
time in Avernus and attacks the characters, fighting to 
the death.
Yeenoghu’s Monster
If Crokek’toeck (see appendix A) has been freed from 
the Bleeding Citadel (see chapter 4 of Baldur’s Gate: 
Descent into Avernus), the characters find this monster in 
their path. If the monster is imprisoned or dead, treat this 
result as no encounter.

--- PAGE 17 ---
Chapter 3 | Elturel Encounters
16
The following encounters can occur as the 
characters rest or travel the streets of Elturel while it is 
in Avernus. See chapter 2 of Baldur’s Gate: Descent into 
Avernus for a description of the city and its locations.
Elturel Encounters
d100
Encounter
01–04
A River Ran Through It
05–09
Abandoned Trunk
10–13
Alchemist Shop
14–17
Execution
18–21
Fiendish Trap
22–26
Forbidden Delights
27–31
Hellfire Burning
32–35
Hellrider Uprising
36–39
Injured Knight
40–43
Jailbreak
44–47
Keeper of the Keys
48–52
Kid Warlock
53–57
Mad Cultists
58–62
Missing Imp
63–67
Nasty Weather
68–72
Nycaloth Thugs
73–76
Obsessed Avenger
77–80
Priestess of Lathander
81–85
Rakshasa Hustler
86–90
Skeleton Bonfire
91–95
Thief of Ivory Wings
96–100
Wild Beasts
Encounter Descriptions
Following are the encounters in alphabetical order.
A River Ran Through It
Alta Tron, a chaotic neutral female human enchanter 
(see appendix A), approaches the characters, introducing 
herself as a mystical engineer and claiming to have 
developed a device that can allow a group safe passage 
across the rift separating the east and west sides of the 
city. If the characters agree to help Alta successfully test 
the device, she agrees to build the characters one for 
their own.
	 Though extremely skilled, the engineer is a bit mad and 
suffers from bouts of delusions of grandeur. A successful 
DC 14 Wisdom (Insight) check notices something a bit off 
about her.
	 The device is intended to create an invisible bridge across 
the rift that lasts for five minutes. Examination of the rune-
covered metallic device reveals no useful information, as 
there is no way of surmising how it was built.
The Experiment
When activated, the device indeed creates a magical 
bridge that cannot be seen by any means other than with 
truesight. The bridge, unknowingly to the party, extends 
only 50 feet across. A character crossing the bridge 
must make a successful DC 12 Dexterity saving throw to 
notice. In addition, after five rounds, the bridge begins to 
collapse. A successful DC 13 Wisdom (Perception) check 
notices small wisps of smoke coming out of the machine, 
while a successful DC 13 Intelligence (Arcana) check 
discovers there are only moments left before the device 
fails. Characters on the bridge when the device begins to 
Chapter 3: Elturel Encounters

--- PAGE 18 ---
Chapter 3 | Elturel Encounters
17
fail can rush back to solid ground with a successful DC 
14 Strength (Athletics) or Dexterity (Acrobatics) check. 
Characters that fail and cannot fly, levitate, or teleport fall 
several hundred feet into the River Styx (see chapter 3 of 
Baldur’s Gate: Descent into Avernus).
Attracting the Guards
During the test, there’s a 1 in 10 chance the party is 
noticed by the guards stationed on Torm’s Bridges, 
attracting a patrol of 2d4 spined devils.
Treasure
If the characters attempted to help Alta in good faith, 
they’re rewarded with an uncommon magical item of the 
DM’s choice.
Abandoned Trunk
There is a small, dusty trunk sitting on the side of the 
street, made from gray wood with a tarnished bronze 
latch and no lock. Roll a d4 to determine the contents.
1.	
A set of antique silverware, worth 240 gp.
2.	
A complete set of the Encyclopedia Esoterica, worth 
150 gp to the right buyer.
3.	
The trunk is a mimic with 90 hit points.
4.	
As the characters approach the trunk, a desperate-
looking human gladiator with a tattooed face pushes 
past and says, “I saw it first!” Inside is the corpse of a 
small dog.
Alchemist Shop
The characters pass a building that emits a sweet 
smell. The building’s locked door can be opened with 
a successful DC 15 Dexterity check by a character 
proficient with thieves’ tools, or smashed down with a DC 
20 Strength (Athletics) check.
	 Once inside, the characters see the building was 
obviously an alchemist’s shop. No one is inside, and most 
of the chemicals and equipment were destroyed.
Treasure
There is a single intact cask brimming with alchemist’s 
fire. There is enough liquid in the cask to fill ten glass 
vials, which can be found with a quick search of shelves. 
Alternatively, the entire cask can be detonated, having the 
same effect as a fireball spell (spell save DC 15).
Execution
Three bearded devils make preparations to execute 
Tyara Twinfall (lawful good female human priest with no 
spell slots remaining) by hanging her with a chain from a 
building. The devils caught Tyara, a priestess of Torm in 
her sixties, sprinkling holy water on corpses in Elturel’s 
graveyard (area E7) to prevent them from coming back as 
undead. They plan to display Tyara’s corpse as a warning 
to the rest of the citizens of Elturel.
	 If the devils notice the characters, they attack. When 
one devil remains, it flees.
	 If the characters free Tyara, she thanks them and tells 
them the dead are rising in Elturel’s graveyard. The 
priestess begs the characters to do something about the 
undead if they have not already explored the graveyard 
(see chapter 2 in Baldur’s Gate: Descent into Avernus). 
After she chats with the characters Tyara leaves to find a 
safe place to rest.
Fiendish Trap
The characters come across a human with a rope around 
his neck hanging from a tree. His hands grasp the rope 
at his throat, allowing him to breathe, but his is obviously 
losing his fight to survive.
	 Two barghests (see appendix A) in goblin form hide and 
watch the struggling victim, hoping that his predicament 
draws out other survivors for the pair to kill, extort, or 
torment. They were planning to sneak into Elturel and eat 
some innocent souls at the fateful moment when the city 
came to Avernus.
	 The human is Alihor (neutral good commoner), a tailor 
who survived the trip to the Nine Hells but could not find 
a safe place to hide. He is cowardly and traumatized by 
the experience.
Forbidden Delights
The party finds a torn piece of parchment on the road 
depicting an advertisement for a magician-run pastry shop 
called Forbidden Delights. If the party heads to the shop, 
they find it locked, but after one round, the proprietor 
opens the door and beckons them to come inside.
	 Bulmor, the human proprietor, and his two sisters, 
Tevra and Maribe, claim to be hiding from devil patrols, 
but are actually three dybbuk (see appendix A) spies that 
killed the real owners and possessed their corpses. They 
attempt to lure the party far enough into the shop before 
locking the door and attacking.
	 A character who spends 1 minute searching the shop 
and makes a successful DC 12 Intelligence (Investigation) 
check finds 1d4 intact magical pastries, each with the 
effects of a specific potion when they’re consumed. As 
they’re unmarked, their effects on are unknown. Upon 
consumption, roll a d6 to determine the pastry’s effects:
d6
Effect
1.
potion of greater healing
2.
potion of diminution
3.
potion of poison
4.
elixir of health
5.
potion of growth
6.
philter of love
Hellfire Burning
A group of commoners are gathered outside a building 
ablaze with red and green flames. They tell the party 
they heard cries for help coming from within. If the party 
chooses to investigate, roll a d4 to determine the nature 
of the fire.
1.	 The building was set ablaze as a casualty from a 
recent battle. A strange hellfire burns from within. 
Three commoners are trapped inside different rooms 
in the building. Each one can be located and reached 
within two rounds with a successful DC 14 Wisdom 
(Perception) check. A character inside the building 
must make a successful DC 13 Dexterity saving throw 
at the start of each round or take 3d6 fire damage 
from the writhing hellfire. Commoners not located 
within 2 minutes perish in the fire.

--- PAGE 19 ---
Chapter 3 | Elturel Encounters
18
2.	 A barbed devil is inside the building, pursuing two 
commoners fleeing it.
3.	 The fire is caused by a backlash from a summoning 
ritual performed by a demonic cult fanatic and three 
cultists. A summoned barlgura is within as well. 
The DM can choose the demon’s level of alliance 
with the cultists.
4.	 Two rounds after anyone enters the building, the fire 
erupts in a catastrophic explosion.  Each creature 
within must make a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw, 
taking 17 (5d6) fire damage on a failed save, or half as 
much on a successful one. Climbing out of the debris 
takes three rounds. Each round, creatures in the 
debris must succeed on a DC 12 Constitution saving 
throw or take 10 (3d6) poison damage from smoke 
and debris inhalation.
Hellrider Uprising
A group of three Hellriders (knights) each mounted on 
a warhorse are losing a battle with six spined devils. 
If the devils notice the characters, four of them attack 
the characters while the others continue to battle the 
Hellriders.
	 If the characters aid the Hellriders in defeating their 
foes, the knights thank the characters, giving them any 
advice about the city they have to offer before riding off 
in search of other fiends (see chapter 2 in Baldur’s Gate: 
Descent into Avernus).
	 If the characters do not aid the Hellriders, the Hellriders 
lose the battle.
Injured Knight
As the characters turn a corner, they see a human knight 
fell a bearded devil, just as the knight is struck with the 
devil’s glaive. The knight falls even though she does not 
look very injured.
	 The knight is Beryl Corth (lawful good female human 
knight), and she is suffering from an infernal wound from 
the devil’s glaive. The wound continues bleeding (1d10 
damage per round) until it is treated with a successful DC 
12 Wisdom (Medicine) check or Beryl receives magical 
healing. She has 40 hit points when the characters 
encounter her.
	 If the characters can save her, she tells them that she 
has been wandering the city, looking for survivors and 
fighting monsters. She knows little else of the happenings 
elsewhere.
Jailbreak
Cries for help emerge from a building bearing a sign that 
reads, “Elturel Jail.” When the characters enter, they see 
five humans in a cell. Four of the humans assault the fifth 
who is curled up in the corner.
	 These five were spending the night in jail when Elturel 
came to Avernus. The guards perished, and they have not 
been able to escape their locked and barred cell. Some 
kind survivors have brought them water, but now they are 
out of food and no one has come by recently. Four of the 
prisoners have decided that the only means of survival is 
making a meal of the fifth.
	 The prisoners (commoners) can be talked out of their 
plans with a successful DC 10 Charisma (Persuasion) 
check, or if the characters offer them food or freedom. 
The cell’s lock can be picked with a successful DC 15 
Dexterity check with thieves’ tools.
Keeper of the Keys
A chain devil wandering the streets of Elturel named 
Luchetto makes eye contact with a character and 
communicates the following message telepathically: 
“Keys for sale. You interested?”

--- PAGE 20 ---
Luchetto wears a leather coat lined with keys of all 
shapes and sizes, made of various materials. Some are 
shiny and brand new; others are rusted and splattered with 
blood. Luchetto is a “collector” and hopes that someday 
he can find a key to unbind his chains. He appreciates the 
craft that goes into key-making and wants to make some 
easy money. Each key costs 1 sp. Luchetto is also willing 
to trade a key for a key. There is a 50 percent chance 
Luchetto has a key that could help the characters.
Kid Warlock
A child wearing dark robes inscribed with silver sigils 
approaches the characters. She claims to be a warlock and 
demands they help her. Roll a d4 to determine her identity.
1.	 She is an ordinary child (noncombatant), but the 
stress of the situation has led her poor mind to 
imagine she is a powerful warlock. She commands the 
characters to procure a large supply of boiled sweets 
for her, or face her patron’s wrath.
2.	 She is not a child but a halfling warlock of the archfey 
(see appendix A). While fighting a group of ogres 
near Daggerdale, a miscast misty step spell saw her 
accidentally transported to Elturel just before it shifted 
to Avernus. She has no money or supplies but offers 
to help the characters achieve their immediate goal if 
they promise to take her back home when they leave.
3.	 She is a warlock of the archfey (see appendix A) and 
a child prodigy with magic. Her father (along with 
4d6 other commoners) is being held by four bearded 
devils in an old villa in the southern part of the city. 
The devils plan to sell them all into slavery. She pleads 
with the characters to help her free her father and 
offers magical favors in return.
4.	 She is a succubus disguised as a very young warlock. 
She claims to have been orphaned in the disaster and 
offers to help the party if they let her join them. She 
plans to secretly charm one of the characters and use 
that person to rob them all.
Mad Cultists
Most of the citizens of Elturel who survived the trip to 
Avernus either fled to the High Hall, locked themselves 
in their homes or businesses to hide, or perished at the 
hands of fiendish creatures in the days since their arrival.
	 A few, however, went mad. Zariel sensed this madness 
and sent these people mad visions that drive their actions. 
These people have carved an image of a sword into their 
foreheads and roam the streets, slaughtering anything 
in their path – although Zariel has ordered her devilish 
servants to give them pass.
	 The characters see five cult fanatics beating on doors, 
breaking windows, and otherwise wreaking havoc. If the 
fanatics see the characters, they immediately attack. If 
defeated and questioned, the cult fanatics ramble madly 
about fallen angels, flaming swords, and the entire city 
being plunged into the Styx to be “purified and made one 
with the darkness.”
Missing Imp
A cloaked human woman approaches the party and asks 
if they've seen an imp. The woman is Amira (neutral 
warlock of the Great Old One in appendix A) and looking 
for her familiar, an imp named Chernok. Amira says that 
Chernok was “killed” in battle but when she cast her 
find familiar spell, he didn't return to her, so she came to 
Avernus to retrieve him.
	 There are many imps in Avernus. What differentiates 
Chernok is his droopy right ear. Characters can make a 
successful DC 16 Wisdom (Survival) check to track him 
during their travels. According to Amira, he also loves 
chocolate and gold coins. Amira gives them a sending 
stone to notify her if they find Chernok, and offers the 
party her services as a reward.
	 If identified, Chernok is at first reluctant to return to 
Amira, annoyed that he was sent back to the Nine Hells. 
He lured his keeper here as payback, but a successful 
DC 15 Charisma (Intimidation or Persuasion) convinces 
Chernok to return to Amira.
Nasty Weather
The characters are walking down the street when acidic 
rain begins falling from the sky. A balding human man 
in a fur robe stands in the doorway of a little terrace and 
beckons them inside to escape the weather. He cryptically 
says that they might also learn something to their 
advantage. Roll a d4 to determine the man’s identity.
1.	 He is a vampire spawn and attacks the party as soon 
as he secures the front door. He has a stash of 150 gp.
2.	 He is a enchanter (see appendix A) who casts a 5th 
level charm person spell in order to charm the entire 
party. If the enchantment succeeds, he takes the party 
to a nearby group of four bearded devils, offering 
them as prisoners in return for his own freedom.
3.	 He is a priest who worships the same deity as 
one of the characters.  The deity 
has instructed him to give the 
characters a special blessing, 
which grants each of them 2d8 
temporary hit points.
4.	 He is a Harper spy and has a 
secret chamber beneath his 
floor. He won’t accompany 
the party but allows them 
to use his secret chamber 
to safely rest.

--- PAGE 21 ---
Chapter 3 | Elturel Encounters
20
Nycaloth Thugs
Eldizon and Merrowdown, two nycaloths, see Elturel’s 
predicament as their golden opportunity. The pair 
deserted their brigade in the Blood War battle to travel 
to the city. Now that they’re here, they plan to use force, 
guile, or both to take the city. Then they can hand it over 
to the highest bidder and move to a plane with lots of 
sunshine and refreshing drinks.
	 When the nycaloths spot the characters, the pair follow 
invisibly then wait for the characters to split up or rest. 
The yugoloths appear and threaten the smallest group of 
characters for money, magic items, or Lulu. The nycaloths 
are cowards. As soon as one is reduced to less than half 
its hit points, both flee.
Obsessed Avenger
When Elturel came to Avernus, retired adventurer 
Estellen Sohl was sitting down to eat with her family. A 
lawful good human mage of no small power, Estellen was 
able to protect her family for a short time, but recently 
devils overran her home and killed them.
	 Mad with grief, Estellen now wanders the streets, 
killing any devils, demons, or other evil creatures she can 
find. She knows the tricks of devils well, so she assumes 
anyone she encounters to be a devil in disguise.
	 When they meet her, the characters must converse with 
Estellen with great care. If they say or do anything that 
can be misconstrued as an evil or treacherous act, she 
acts them immediately. Estellen has only one spell slot of 
each level remaining.
	 A successful DC 15 Charisma (Persuasion) check 
can reassure the mage, or a DC 15 Wisdom (Medicine) 
check can diagnose Estellen’s madness. Even if dealt 
with carefully, Estellen wants to die killing as many of the 
fiends as possible. Characters might be able, however, to 
point her in a direction that favors them.
Priestess of Lathander
The characters encounter Mona Kirando (lawful good 
female human priest) as she attempts to lead a family 
of four homeless commoners (named Brella, Fargus, 
Tomdon, and Yan) to safety.
	 If the middle-aged priestess of Lathander notices the 
characters, Mona introduces herself. If the characters 
are kind to her, Mona offers her spells to heal them. If the 
characters threaten the NPCs or commit any evil acts in 
her presence, Mona takes no chances and attacks while 
yelling for her companions to flee.
Rakshasa Hustler
Jalrai is a rakshasa who sees Elturel’s plight as an 
opportunity to get rich. When the city falls, she plans to 
take her money to the Material Plane and use it to hire an 
army of minions.
	 Jalrai searches Elturel in the form of a wood elf priestess 
of Tyr named Calissa Arven. She convinces survivors to 
trust her and give her access to their hiding places. When 
she finds their refuges, she devours them and takes their 
belongings, storing them in a portable hole.
	 The characters encounter Jalrai as she leaves a 
residence where she just devoured a family of four. When 
the rakshasa notices the characters, she offers to travel 
with them and aid them on whatever quest they have. A 
successful DC 20 Wisdom (Insight) check reveals her as 
a fiend. Jalrai does not attack the characters if confronted; 
instead she flies or uses plane shift to escape.
Skeleton Bonfire
A pile of mortal bodies fuels an infernal bonfire in the 
middle of a street. The fire is clearly not natural. A detect 
magic spell reveals that an aura of necromancy magic 
radiates from the fire. When the characters get near it, 
1d6 skeletons emerge from the fire and attack (they have 
no ranged weapons). Every round thereafter on initiative 
count 20, another 1d6 skeletons emerge and attack.
	 This continues until a bless spell or similar magic is 
cast upon the corpses. A successful DC 15 Intelligence 
(Religion) check made as an action to say a suitable 
prayer of rest also stops the spawning of more skeletons 
as the magical fire is quelled.
Treasure
If the pyre is calmed, the characters can search the pile 
and find jewelry and coins worth a total of 400 gp.
Thief of Ivory Wings
Several months before Elturel was dragged into Avernus, 
an unscrupulous hunter named Emarki Langridere 
(neutral evil male human) captured a pegasus and hid it 
in his cellar, to sell it later on the black market in Baldur’s 
Gate. He was killed by demons in Elturel’s descent, but 
was reborn as a devil with a tiny fragment of his former 
memories.
	 Now an imp, Langridere has slowly made his way 
from the Styx to Elturel, and is searching for his half-
remembered cellar. A character in Elturel with a passive 
Wisdom (Perception) score of 15 or higher notices that a 
horned devil that was flying in circles for hours (maybe 
even days!) has suddenly flown with incredible purpose 
towards a house on the outskirts of the city.
	 Characters who pursue find that the invisible imp has 
convinced a horned devil to help it find the lost pegasus. 
The horned devil has smashed open the cellar door and 
is dragging the chained and muzzled pegasus out into the 
streets. If they save the pegasus, it tells them its name is 
Polydamas and agrees to be the steed of any good-aligned 
character, especially an elf or half-elf, while they search 
for a way out of Avernus.
Wild Beasts
A travelling zoo was performing in Elturel when the city 
was dragged to Avernus. Several of the beasts escaped, 
and they now roam the streets hunting for food.
	 Two saber-toothed tigers and four lions hunt in a 
pack, taking down anything in their path. An individual 
creature can be brought to heel with a successful DC 15 
Wisdom (Animal Handling) check. However, the madness 
of Avernus makes the beasts incapable of pushing down 
their primal urges for long.

--- PAGE 22 ---
Chapter 4 | Encounter Chains
21
Chapter 4: Encounter Chains
The following encounters chains consist of several 
smaller encounters linked together by the same story in 
Avernus. There are two encounter chains that could be 
fleshed out into longer adventures if you so desire.
Dragon Queen’s Chosen
The characters discover that words have been carved into 
one of the monolithic boulders that dot the wastelands of 
Avernus. The script reads, “Prove yourself worthy of being 
my chosen,” and seems to have been carved into the stone 
by a massive claw.
	 The start of this encounter chain is suitable for 
characters of 7th level. If the characters are already 
8th level or higher, you can play any of the earlier 
encounters in this encounter chain out of order by using 
the encounter building rules in chapter 3 of the Dungeon 
Master’s Guide to add more foes.
Pearlescent Devotion
Later on the same day the characters discovered the 
message clawed into the boulder, they are attacked by 
a pair of white abishais (see appendix A). Both devils 
attack recklessly, with a mindless intent to kill. When the 
last is killed, a deific voice echoes from its dying maw: 
“You are powerful, but you are not yet worthy.”
Shadowy Death
Once the characters reach 8th level, they are ambushed 
by a pair of black abishais (see appendix A) in the middle 
of a long rest. These assassins begin combat by using 
their Creeping Darkness action option to surround the 
characters in darkness. When the last is killed, the same 
voice escapes from its mouth.
	 “I sense great promise in you,” it rasps. “Seek out the 
merchant with a heart of gold.”
Venomous Wit
Once the characters reach 10th level, they are approached 
by a green abishai (see appendix A) named Xalgonai 
masquerading as a human merchant from Mahadi’s 
Wandering Emporium. This abishai claims that she “has 
heard you are in the market for uncommon finery” and 
offers to sell them a human heart made of solid gold for 
10,000 gold.
	 She is willing to be haggled down, reducing her price 
by 2,000 gold every time a character makes a successful 
DC 15 Charisma (Deception or Persuasion) check. Once 
a character fails this check, she refuses to lower her 
prices further.
	 During this negotiation, the abishai subtly casts 
dominate person on the most foolish-seeming character in 
the party. A creature with a passive Wisdom (Perception) 
score of 19 or higher notices that she has cast a spell. 
Once the character is dominated, Xalgonai attacks 
mercilessly, using confusion and other spells to keep her 
foes at bay while her dominated ally kills them.
	 When Xalgonai is killed, the deific voice of Tiamat once 
more emerges from her and says, “You have both great 
strength and sufficient guile. But you must grow stronger 
still before the heart will reveal its secrets to you.” The 
golden heart is a living but dormant creature and registers 
as a fiend when examined by a paladin’s Divine Sense or 
similar magic. It can’t move, can’t act, and is immune to 
all damage and conditions.

--- PAGE 23 ---
Shocking Curiosity
Once the characters reach 12th level, the golden 
heart begins beating. Its beating can be felt even when 
contained in a character’s pack, and it grows faster as they 
grow closer to Demon Zapper (see chapter 3 of Baldur’s 
Gate: Descent into Avernus).
	 A blue abishai (see appendix A) named Ceruquea lurks 
in a cave some 200 feet away from the Demon Zapper. 
When the characters draw near, the abishai greets them 
like friends and explains that the heart is the current form 
Severin Silrajin, a former leader of the Cult of Dragons 
who tried and failed to call Tiamat into the Material Plane 
many years ago. Tiamat transformed Severin’s soul into 
this inert heart as punishment.
	 The abishai believes that the heart could be transformed 
if exposed to the unbridled radiant energy of the Demon 
Zapper. If the heart comes within 100 feet of the zapper, 
a beam of radiant light explodes from the zapper and 
strikes the heart. Any character holding the heart at this 
time must succeed on a DC 18 Dexterity saving throw 
or take 260 (40d12) radiant damage, or half as much 
damage on a successful save.
	 When the heart is struck by the ray, it transforms into 
an ioun stone of absorption made of gleaming gold. The 
blue abishai thanks the characters for acquiring such a 
powerful item then uses its most powerful spells to try to 
annihilate them from a distance.
	 When the abishai dies, Tiamat’s voice emerges from 
its mouth and congratulates the characters. “You have 
responded to treachery with lethal force. Very good. 
However, you have seen only a fraction of my true power. 
If you seek an audience with the Dragon Queen, travel to 
the tower of my current champion.”
Burning Ambition
When the characters visit the spire of black rock that 
houses Tiamat’s champion (see chapter 3 of Baldur’s 
Gate: Descent into Avernus), they find its owner and his 
allies absent. Instead, another being is awaiting their 
arrival: a red abishai named Sut’valloth. It is ready to 
test their might and judge their worthiness. The abishai 
moves and acts haltingly, and speaks with the rumbling, 
disproportionate voice of Tiamat herself—for she is using 
the abishai as a direct conduit for her consciousness.
	 The abishai attacks with a gleeful howl in the midst of 
the pleasantries, and uses its powers of flight to burst out 
of one of the tower’s windows after attacking. It weaves in 
and out of the tower, goading the characters to fight in the 
air around the tower. 
	 When the abishai is killed, Tiamat animates his fallen 
body like a puppet. He stands, a malevolent gleam in his 
eye, and speaks to them with Tiamat’s voice. ““You are 
indeed most worthy. Now, claim your place at my side. 
Kneel, mortals. And rise—champions of the Dragon 
Queen. Take this power, and use it to end the reign of 
Zariel and make Avernus mine once more.”
	 The characters each gain the ability to cast the spell 
dragon’s breath (found in Xanathar’s Guide to Everything) 
at 5th level with a range of Self. Once a character 
casts this spell, they can’t cast it again until next dawn. 
Additionally, as champions of Tiamat, they can call upon 
her power to shatter the chains of Elturel (as described 
in “Breaking the Chains” in chapter 5 of Baldur’s Gate: 
Descent into Avernus) or to perform a similar task by 
meditating in prayer for 10 minutes. The champions can 
only make a request upon Tiamat’s power in this way 
once, and only in Avernus.  
Serpent of Deceit
A host of celestial couatls followed Zariel on her doomed 
charge into Avernus, and their numbers slowly dwindled 
as the seemingly endless hordes of demons and devils 
wore upon their finite ranks. Now only one of these divine 
serpents remains—and has succumbed to evil.
	 The start of this encounter chain is suitable for 
characters of 5th level.
Adriesta the Fallen Serpent
This couatl hides in Mahadi’s Wandering Emporium, 
using her Change Shape trait to take the form of a female 
tiefling named veteran Adriesta with a red cloak and 
buzzed-short white hair. She uses the dream spell to draw 
adventurers to her location.
	 The corrupting influence of Avernus has taken its toll 
upon the once-pure celestial. Wicked thoughts have crept 
into the couatl’s mind, and her will to resist has slowly 
drained away. Adriesta seeks to pledge her service to 
Zariel, and is in need of companions to protect her on 
the journey to Zariel’s Flying Fortress (see chapter 3 of 
Baldur’s Gate: Descent into Avernus).
	 Adriesta’s type is fiend, and her alignment is lawful evil. 
As a fiendish couatl, Adriesta gains an additional action, 
which increases her challenge rating to 5 (1,800 XP):
	 Summon Fiend (1/day). Adriesta conjures two hell 
hounds in the two unoccupied spaces closest to her.
Opening Gambit
While shopping in Mahadi’s Wandering Emporium, 
the characters encounter Adriesta on the outskirts

--- PAGE 24 ---
of the emporium, gazing out onto the wastes. Before 
the characters move on, however, they see the tiefling 
attacked by a group of four spined devils. She is instantly 
tackled to the ground, and seems to be in mortal danger.
	 This is just a ruse; these spined devils were hired by 
Adriesta to draw in useful patsies. Each spined devil flees 
when reduced to half its hit points; they have no intention 
of dying for this job. Once Adriesta is saved, she plays the 
part of the warrior with wounded pride, downplaying the 
danger she was in and ruefully thanking the characters 
for their help.
	 Adriesta’s Shielded Mind trait prevents anyone from 
divining her true intentions until it’s too late.
Dream of Divinity
Now that Adriesta has met the characters, she enacts 
phase two of her scheme: the dream of divinity. She casts 
dream, and one of the characters receives a sleeping 
vision of an awe-inspiring celestial serpent, coiling 
around the imposing flying fortress of Zariel. It speaks 
in a booming voice: “I am the Serpent of the Heavens, 
one who followed Zariel into Avernus and lived. I know 
you seek to perform a great task—one that involves my 
greatest nemesis. I have entrusted a secret route to 
Zariel’s citadel to the tiefling warrior Adriesta; find her, 
and she will show you the true way to the fallen angel.”
	 As the dream-serpent speaks, the dreamer’s vision 
jumps from Mahadi’s Wandering Emporium, then to a 
tower of steel that looms over the River Styx, and finally to 
a monolithic floating fortress hovering above the riverside 
tower. The serpent’s voice says, “I entrust this task to you.” 
The dream fades to black.
	 When the characters awake, they are beset by a trio of 
hell hounds that try to kill them. These fiends are servants 
of Adriesta, who uses them to test the adventurers’ ability 
once more. If the characters tell Lulu the hollyphant of this 
dream, she says she doesn’t remember a creature known 
as the Serpent of the Heavens but admits that there are 
a lot of things she doesn’t remember. She also says that 
seeing Zariel in person might help her remember where 
the Sword of Zariel is hidden.
A Quest of Feigned Virtue
If the characters meet with Adriesta after receiving the 
dream summons, she plays up her reluctance to go on 
so difficult a journey, but eventually “admits” that she 
too received a vision from the so-called Serpent of the 
Heavens and agrees to show them the way to Zariel’s 
citadel. She tells them—truthfully—that Zariel’s flying 
fortress is too dangerous to be boarded while moving, but 
that it’s guarded by only a skeleton crew while docked on 
the banks of the Styx.
	 Adriesta guides the characters to the Stygian dock 
(see chapter 3 of Baldur’s Gate: Descent into Avernus). 
Along the way, however, they are beset by demons—an 
encounter that Adriesta suspected would occur but didn’t 
instigate. The chaos of the Blood War is the entire reason 
why she needed the characters’ aid in the first place. Two 
barlguras and two vrocks assail the adventurers from 
both land and sky, seeking to suck their souls from their 
corpses. Adriesta joins the characters in combat, using 
her tiefling veteran form to fight back.

--- PAGE 25 ---
Chapter 4 | Encounter Chains
24
Boarding the Flying Fortress
The characters reach the Stygian dock after 1d4 days 
of grueling travel. During this time, several other 
encounters could occur. They reach the dock early in 
the day, and Adriesta shows them a secret way through 
the dock that passes through hidden access tunnels that 
completely avoids any encounters with devils or demons. 
(The couatl learned of these passages during an attack 
on this very dock when she was still a noble celestial 
standing at Zariel’s side.)
	 While slinking through the barely staffed fortress (see 
“Zariel’s Flying Fortress” in chapter 3 of Baldur’s Gate: 
Descent into Avernus), the characters are caught by a 
pair of bearded devils patrolling the lower decks. Unless 
these devils are killed within the first round of combat, 
they flee and signal other patrols. If another patrol is 
signaled, the party is attacked by a bone devil.
	 If they’re defeated, the devil hauls them up to the 
command deck to face Zariel’s wrath. In this situation 
Zariel is out on the battlefield, and they are imprisoned 
within a wall of force for one hour while Zariel returns—
enough time to complete a short rest.
The Serpent’s Betrayal
Archduke Zariel of Avernus (see appendix A) is on the 
fortress’s command deck. She is willing to speak with 
these audacious mortals, whether the characters were 
brought there in chains, or successfully snuck in. At a 
lull in the conversation, such as when the characters run 
out of things to say, Adriesta steps into plain view before 
Zariel and demands to be heard.
	 She speaks plainly. “I am Adriesta. In days long past I 
fought at your side as a couatl.” She transforms into her 
true form as a celestial serpent—but something is wrong. 
Her scales are tarnished and her feathered wings drip 
with blood. With a smirk she turns to the characters. “I 
wish to serve you again. I bring these mortals to you as 
sacrifices and as a demonstration of my power.”
	 Zariel scoffs and smiles. “So be it,” she says. “Prove 
your newfound power.”
	 Adriesta uses her first action in combat to conjure two 
hell hounds. She uses her flying speed to attack the 
characters and then fly away while her hounds attack. 
During this fight, Zariel watches in amusement.
	 If the characters defeat Adriesta and her hounds, Zariel 
shakes her head in dismay. “She was weak,” she says, 
“and did not deserve a place in my legions.” Zariel then 
gazes with a look of pride at the characters and tosses 
them a trinket of her favor—a vicious longsword. Her 
demeanor then shifts, and she icily demands that they 
leave her sight and her fortress before she decides they 
would be better off as devils in her thrall.
	 If the characters decide to talk with Zariel more, 
information on how to roleplay her is found in chapter 
5 of Baldur’s Gate: Descent into Avernus. The true 
prize is that seeing Zariel sparked a memory within 
Lulu. Wherever the next destination on the characters’ 
path through Avernus leads them, Lulu instantly knows 
where to go.

--- PAGE 26 ---
Appendix A | Monsters & NPCs 
25
Appendix A: Monsters & NPCs 
This appendix details creatures that are not found in the 
Monster Manual.
Abishai
Black Abishai
Medium fiend (devil), lawful evil
Armor Class 15 (natural armor)
Hit Points 58 (9d8 + 18)
Speed 30 ft., fly 40 ft.
	
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
	 14(+2)	
17(+3)	
14(+2)	
13(+1)	
16(+3)	
11(+0)
Saving Throws Dex +6, Wis +6
Skills Perception +6, Stealth +6
Damage Resistances cold; bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing 
from nonmagical attacks that aren't silvered
Damage Immunities acid, fire, poison
Condition Immunities poisoned
Senses darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 16
Languages Draconic, Infernal, telepathy 120 ft.
Challenge 7 (2,900 XP)
Devil's Sight. Magical darkness doesn’t impede the 
abishai’s darkvision.
Magic Resistance. The abishai has advantage on saving throws 
against spells and other magical effects.
Magic Weapons. The abishai’s weapon attacks are magical.
Shadow Stealth. While in dim light or darkness, the abishai can 
take the Hide action as a bonus action.
Actions
Multiattack. The abishai makes three attacks: two with its 
scimitar and one with its bite.
Scimitar. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. 
Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) slashing damage.
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 
8 (1d10 + 3) piercing damage plus 9 (2d8) acid damage.
Creeping Darkness (Recharge 6). The abishai casts darkness at 
a point within 120 feet of it, requiring no components. Wisdom 
is its spellcasting ability for this spell. While the spell persists, 
the abishai can move the area of darkness up to 60 feet as a 
bonus action.
Blue Abishai
Medium fiend (devil), lawful evil
Armor Class 19 (natural armor)
Hit Points 195 (26d8 + 78)
Speed 30 ft., fly 50 ft.
	
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
	 15(+2)	
14(+2)	
17(+3)	
22(+6)	
23(+6)	
18(+4)
Saving Throws Int +12, Wis +12
Skills Arcana +12
Damage Resistances cold; bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing 
from nonmagical attacks that aren't silvered
Damage Immunities fire, lightning, poison
Condition Immunities poisoned
Senses darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 16
Languages Draconic, Infernal, telepathy 120 ft.
Challenge 17 (18,000 XP)
Devil's Sight. Magical darkness doesn’t impede the 
abishai’s darkvision.
Magic Resistance. The abishai has advantage on saving throws 
against spells and other magical effects.
Magic Weapons. The abishai’s weapon attacks are magical.
Spellcasting. The abishai is a 13th-level spellcaster. Its 
spellcasting ability is Intelligence (spell save DC 20, +12 to 
hit with spell attacks). The abishai has the following wizard 
spells prepared:
Cantrips (at will): friends, mage hand, message, minor illusion, 
shocking grasp
1st level (4 slots): chromatic orb, disguise self, expeditious retreat, 
magic missile, charm person, thunderwave
2nd level (3 slots): darkness, mirror image, misty step
3rd level (3 slots): dispel magic, fear, lightning bolt
4th level (3 slots): dimension door, greater invisibility, ice storm
5th level (2 slots): cone of cold, wall of force
6th level (1 slot): chain lightning
7th level (1 slot): teleport
Actions
Multiattack. The abishai makes two attacks: one with its 
quarterstaff and one with its bite.
Quarterstaff. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) bludgeoning damage, or 6 (1d8 + 2) 
bludgeoning damage if used with two hands.
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 
13 (2d10 + 2) piercing damage plus 14 (4d6) lightning damage.

--- PAGE 27 ---
Appendix A | Monsters & NPCs 
26
Green Abishai
Medium fiend (devil), lawful evil
Armor Class 18 (natural armor)
Hit Points 187 (25d8 + 75)
Speed 30 ft., fly 40 ft.
	
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
	 12(+1)	
17(+3)	
16(+3)	
17(+3)	
12(+1)	
19(+4)
Saving Throws Int +8, Cha +9
Skills Deception + 9, Insight +6, Perception +6, Persuasion +9
Damage Resistances cold; bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing 
from nonmagical attacks that aren't silvered
Damage Immunities fire, poison
Condition Immunities poisoned
Senses darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 16
Languages Draconic, Infernal, telepathy 120 ft.
Challenge 15 (13,000 XP)
Devil's Sight. Magical darkness doesn’t impede the 
abishai’s darkvision.
Innate Spellcasting. The abishai’s innate spellcasting ability is 
Charisma (spell save DC 17). It can innately cast the following 
spells, requiring no material components:
At will: alter self, major image
3/day each: charm person, detect thoughts, fear
1/day each: confusion, dominate person, mass suggestion
Magic Resistance. The abishai has advantage on saving throws 
against spells and other magical effects.
Magic Weapons. The abishai’s weapon attacks are magical.
Actions
Multiattack. The abishai makes two attacks, one with its claws 
and one with its longsword, or it casts one spell from its Innate 
Spellcasting trait and makes one claw attack.
Longsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 5 (1d8 + 1) slashing damage, or 6 (1d10 + 1) slashing 
damage if used with two hands.
Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. 
Hit: 12 (2d8 + 3) piercing damage. If the target is a creature, it 
must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw or take 11 
(2d10) poison damage and become poisoned for 1 minute. The 
poisoned target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each 
of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success.
Red Abishai
Medium fiend (devil), lawful evil
Armor Class 22 (natural armor)
Hit Points 255 (30d8 + 120)
Speed 30 ft., fly 50 ft.
	
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
	 23(+6)	
16(+3)	
19(+4)	
14(+2)	
15(+2)	
19(+4)
Saving Throws Str +12, Con +10, Wis +8
Skills Intimidation +10, Perception +8
Damage Resistances cold; bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing 
from nonmagical attacks that aren't silvered
Damage Immunities fire, poison
Condition Immunities poisoned
Senses darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 18
Languages Draconic, Infernal, telepathy 120 ft.
Challenge 19 (22,000 XP)
Devil's Sight. Magical darkness doesn’t impede the 
abishai’s darkvision.
Magic Resistance. The abishai has advantage on saving throws 
against spells and other magical effects.
Magic Weapons. The abishai’s weapon attacks are magical.
Actions
Multiattack. The abishai can use its Frightful Presence. It also 
makes three attacks: one with its morningstar, one with its claw, 
and one with its bite.
Morningstar. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 10 (1d8 + 6) piercing damage.
Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. 
Hit: 17 (2d10 + 6) slashing damage.
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. 
Hit: 22 (5d10 + 6) piercing damage plus 38 (7d10) fire damage.
Frightful Presence. Each creature of the abishai’s choice that 
is within 120 feet and aware of it must succeed on a DC 18 
Wisdom saving throw or become frightened of it for 1 minute. 
A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its 
turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature’s 
saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the 
creature is immune to the abishai’s Frightful Presence for the 
next 24 hours.
Incite Fanaticism. The abishai chooses up to four of its allies 
within 60 feet of it that can see it. For 1 minute, each of those 
allies makes attack rolls with advantage and can’t be frightened.
Power of the Dragon Queen. The abishai targets one dragon it 
can see within 120 feet of it. The dragon must make a DC 18 
Charisma saving throw. A chromatic dragon makes this save 
with disadvantage. On a successful save, the target is immune 
to the abishai’s Power of the Dragon Queen for 1 hour. On a 
failed save, the target is charmed by the abishai for 1 hour. While 
charmed in this way, the target regards the abishai as a trusted 
friend to be heeded and protected. This effect ends if the abishai 
or its companions deal damage to the target.

--- PAGE 28 ---
Appendix A | Monsters & NPCs 
27
White Abishai
Medium fiend (devil), lawful evil
Armor Class 15 (natural armor)
Hit Points 68 (8d8 + 32)
Speed 30 ft., fly 40 ft.
	
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
	 16(+3)	
11(+0)	
18(+4)	
11(+0)	
12(+1)	
13(+1)
Saving Throws Str +6, Con +7
Damage Resistances bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing from 
nonmagical attacks that aren’t silvered
Damage Immunities cold, fire, poison
Condition Immunities poisoned
Senses darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 11
Languages Draconic, Infernal, telepathy 120 ft.
Challenge 6 (2,300 XP)
Devil's Sight. Magical darkness doesn’t impede the 
abishai’s darkvision.
Magic Resistance. The abishai has advantage on saving throws 
against spells and other magical effects.
Magic Weapons. The abishai’s weapon attacks are magical.
Reckless. At the start of its turn, the abishai can gain advantage 
on all melee weapon attack rolls during that turn, but attack 
rolls against it have advantage until the start of its next turn.
Actions
Multiattack. The abishai makes two attacks: one with its 
longsword and one with its claw.
Longsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 7 (1d8 + 3) slashing damage, or 8 (1d10 + 3) slashing 
damage if used with two hands.
Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. 
Hit: 8 (1d10 + 3) slashing damage.
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 
5 (1d4 + 3) piercing damage plus 3 (1d6) cold damage.
Reactions
Vicious Reprisal. In response to taking damage, the abishai 
makes a bite attack against a random creature within 5 feet 
of it. If no creature is within reach, the abishai moves up to 
half its speed toward an enemy it can see, without provoking 
opportunity attacks.

--- PAGE 29 ---
Appendix A | Monsters & NPCs 
28
Archduke Zariel of Avernus
Large fiend (devil), lawful evil
Armor Class 21 (natural armor)
Hit Points 580 (40d10 + 360)
Speed 50 ft., fly 150 ft.
	
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
	 27 (+8)	
24 (+7)	
28 (+9)	
26 (+8)	
27 (+8)	
30 (+10)
Saving Throws Int +16, Wis +16, Cha +18
Skills Intimidation +18, Perception +16
Damage Resistances cold, fire, radiant; bludgeoning, piercing, 
and slashing from nonmagical attacks that aren't silvered
Damage Immunities necrotic, poison
Condition Immunities charmed, exhaustion, 
frightened, poisoned
Senses darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 26
Languages all, telepathy 120 ft.
Challenge 26 (90,000 XP)
Devil's Sight. Magical darkness doesn’t impede 
Zariel’s darkvision.
Fiery Weapons. Zariel’s weapon attacks are magical. When she 
hits with any weapon, the weapon deals an extra 36 (8d8) fire 
damage (included in the weapon attacks below).
Innate Spellcasting. Zariel’s innate spellcasting ability is 
Charisma (spell save DC 26). She can innately cast the following 
spells, requiring no material components:
At will: alter self (can become Medium when changing her 
appearance), detect evil and good, fireball, invisibility (self only), 
wall of fire
3/day each: blade barrier, dispel evil and good, finger of death
Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If Zariel fails a saving throw, she 
can choose to succeed instead.
Magic Resistance. Zariel has advantage on saving throws against 
spells and other magical effects.
Regeneration. Zariel regains 20 hit points at the start of her 
turn. If she takes radiant damage, this trait doesn’t function at 
the start of her next turn. Zariel dies only if she starts her turn 
with 0 hit points and doesn’t regenerate.
Actions
Multiattack. Zariel attacks twice with her longsword or with 
her javelins. She can substitute Horrid Touch for one of 
these attacks.
Longsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +16 to hit, reach 10 ft., 
one target. Hit: 17 (2d8 + 8) slashing damage, or 19 (2d10 
+ 8) slashing damage if used with two hands, plus 36 (8d8) 
fire damage.
Javelin. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +16 to hit, range 30/120 
ft., one target. Hit: 15 (2d6 + 8) piercing damage plus 36 (8d8) 
fire damage.
Horrid Touch. Melee Weapon Attack: +16 to hit, reach 10 ft., 
one target. Hit: 44 (8d10) necrotic damage, and the target is 
poisoned for 1 minute. While poisoned in this way, the target 
is also blinded and deafened. The target can repeat the saving 
throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself 
on a success.
Teleport. Zariel magically teleports, along with any equipment 
she is wearing and carrying, up to 120 feet to an unoccupied 
space she can see.
Legendary Actions
Zariel can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options 
below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time 
and only at the end of another creature’s turn. Zariel regains 
spent legendary actions at the start of her turn.
Immolating Gaze (Costs 2 Actions). Zariel turns her magical 
gaze toward one creature she can see within 120 feet of her 
and commands it to combust. The target must 
succeed on a DC 26 Wisdom saving throw or 
take 22 (4d10) fire damage.
Teleport. Zariel uses her Teleport action

--- PAGE 30 ---
Appendix A | Monsters & NPCs 
29
Barghest
Large fiend (shapechanger), neutral evil
Armor Class 17 (natural armor)
Hit Points 90 (12d10 + 24)
Speed 60 ft. (30 ft. in goblin form)
	
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
	 19 (+4)	
15 (+2)	
14 (+2)	
13 (+1)	
12 (+1)	
14 (+2)
Skills Deception +4, Intimidation +4, Perception +5, Stealth +4
Damage Resistances cold, fire, lightning; bludgeoning, piercing, 
and slashing from nonmagical attacks
Damage Immunities acid, poison
Condition Immunities poisoned
Senses blindsight 60 ft., darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 15
Languages Abyssal, Common, Goblin, Infernal, telepathy 60 ft.
Challenge 4 (1,100 XP)
Shapechanger. The barghest can use its action to polymorph 
into a Small goblin or back into its true form. Other than its 
size and speed, its statistics are the same in each form. Any 
equipment it is wearing or carrying isn’t transformed. The 
barghest reverts to its true form if it dies.
Fire Banishment. When the barghest starts its turn engulfed 
in flames that are at least 10 feet high or wide, it must succeed 
on a DC 15 Charisma saving throw or be instantly banished to 
Gehenna. Instantaneous bursts of flame (such as a red dragon’s 
breath or a fireball spell) don’t have this effect on the barghest.
Keen Smell. The barghest has advantage on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks that rely on smell.
Innate Spellcasting. The barghest’s innate spellcasting ability is 
Charisma (spell save DC 12). The barghest can innately cast the 
following spells, requiring no material components:
At will: levitate, minor illusion, pass without trace
1/day each: charm person, dimension door, suggestion
Actions
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack (true form only): +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., 
one target. Hit: 13 (2d8 + 4) piercing damage.
Claws. Melee Weapon Attack. +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. 
Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) slashing damage.
Crokek’toeck
Large fiend (demon), chaotic evil
Armor Class 15 (natural armor)
Hit Points 297 (17d20 + 119)
Speed 60 ft., swim 60 ft.
	
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
	 28 (+9)	
10 (+0)	
24 (+7)	
6 (-2)	
10 (+0)	
13 (+1)
Saving Throws Con +12, Wis +5
Damage Resistances cold, fire, lightning; bludgeoning, piercing, 
and slashing from nonmagical attacks
Damage Immunities poison
Condition Immunities charmed, frightened, poisoned
Senses darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 10
Languages understands Abyssal but can't speak
Challenge 14 (11,500 XP)
Amphibious. Crokek’toeck can breathe air and water.
Fiery Weapons. Zariel’s weapon attacks are magical. When she 
hits with any weapon, the weapon deals an extra 36 (8d8) fire 
damage (included in the weapon attacks below).
Magic Resistance. Crokek’toeck has advantage on saving throws 
against spells and other magical effects.
Magic Weapons. Crokek’toeck's weapon attacks are magical.
Secure Memory. Crokek’toeck is immune to the waters of the 
River Styx as well as any effect that would steal or modify its 
memories or detect or read its thoughts.
Standing Leap. Crokek’toeck's long jump is up to 60 feet and its 
high jump is up to 30 feet, with or without a running start.
Actions
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +14 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. 
Hit: 44 (10d6 + 9) piercing damage.
Disgorge Allies (Recharge 6). Crokek’toeck opens its mouth 
and disgorges 1d4 barlguras, 3d6 gnolls led by 1 gnoll fang of 
Yeenoghu, 6d6 dretches, or 1d3 vrocks (see the Monster Manual 
for these creatures' stat blocks). Each creature it disgorges 
appears in an unoccupied space within 30 feet of Crokek’toeck's 
mouth, or the next closest unoccupied space.

--- PAGE 31 ---
Appendix A | Monsters & NPCs 
30
Enchanter
Medium humanoid (any race), any alignment
Armor Class 12 (15 with mage armor)
Hit Points 40 (9d8)
Speed 30 ft.
	
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
	 9 (–1)	
14 (+2)	
11 (+0)	
17 (+3)	
12 (+1)	
11 (+0)
Saving Throws Int +6, Wis +4
Skills Arcana +6, History +6
Senses passive Perception 11
Languages any four languages
Challenge 5 (1,800 XP)
Spellcasting. The enchanter is a 9th-level spellcaster. Its 
spellcasting ability is Intelligence (spell save DC 14, +6 to hit 
with spell attacks). The enchanter has the following wizard 
spells prepared:
Cantrips (at will): friends, mage hand, mending, message
1st level (4 slots): charm person,* mage armor, magic missile
2nd level (3 slots): hold person,* invisibility, suggestion*
3rd level (3 slots): fireball, haste, tongues
4th level (3 slots): dominate beast,* stoneskin
5th level (2 slots): hold monster*
*Enchantment spell of 1st level or higher
Actions
Quarterstaff. Melee Weapon Attack: +2 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 2 (1d6 – 1) bludgeoning damage, or 3 (1d8 – 1) 
bludgeoning damage if used with two hands.
Reactions
Instinctive Charm (Recharges after the Enchanter Casts an 
Enchantment Spell of 1st Level or Higher). The enchanter tries 
to magically divert an attack made against it, provided that the 
attacker is within 30 feet of it and visible to it. The enchanter 
must decide to do so before the attack hits or misses. 
	 The attacker must make a DC 14 Wisdom saving throw. On a 
failed save, the attacker targets the creature closest to it, other 
than the enchanter or itself. If multiple creatures are closest, the 
attacker chooses which one to target.
Evoker
Medium humanoid (any race), any alignment
Armor Class 12 (15 with mage armor)
Hit Points 66 (12d8 + 12)
Speed 30 ft.
	
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
	 9 (–1)	
14 (+2)	
12 (+1)	
17 (+3)	
12 (+1)	
11 (+0)
Saving Throws Int +7, Wis +5
Skills Arcana +7, History +7
Senses passive Perception 11
Languages any four languages
Challenge 9 (5,000 XP)
Spellcasting. The evoker is a 12th-level spellcaster. Its 
spellcasting ability is Intelligence (spell save DC 15, +7 to 
hit with spell attacks). The evoker has the following wizard 
spells prepared:
Cantrips (at will): fire bolt,* light,* prestidigitation, ray of frost*
1st level (4 slots): burning hands,* mage armor, magic missile*
2nd level (3 slots): mirror image, misty step, shatter*
3rd level (3 slots): counterspell, fireball,* lightning bolt*
4th level (3 slots): ice storm,* stoneskin
5th level (2 slots): Bigby’s hand,* cone of cold*
6th level (1 slot): chain lightning,* wall of ice*
*Evocation spell
Sculpt Spells. When the evoker casts an evocation spell that 
forces other creatures it can see, it can choose a number of 
them equal to 1 + the spell’s level. These creatures automatically 
succeed on their saving throws against the spell. If a successful 
save means a chosen creature would take half damage from the 
spell, it instead takes no damage from it.
Actions
Quarterstaff. Melee Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 2 (1d6 – 1) bludgeoning damage, or 3 (1d8 – 1) 
bludgeoning damage if used with two hands.

--- PAGE 32 ---
Appendix A | Monsters & NPCs 
31
Hellwasp
Large fiend, lawful evil
Armor Class 19 (natural armor)
Hit Points 52 (8d10 + 8)
Speed 10 ft., fly 60 ft. (hover)
	
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
	 18 (+4)	
15 (+2)	
12 (+1)	
10 (+0)	
10 (+0)	
7 (-2)
Saving Throws Dex +5, Wis +3
Damage Vulnerbilities cold
Damage Immunities fire
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 10
Languages Infernal, telepathy 300 ft. (with other hellwasps only)
Challenge 5 (1,800 XP)
Magic Weapons. The hellwasp's weapon attacks are magical.
Actions
Multiattack. The hellwasp makes two attacks: one with its sting 
and one with its sword talons.
Sting. Melee Weapon Attack (true form only): +7 to hit, reach 5 
ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) piercing damage plus 7 (2d6) fire 
damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 12 Constitution 
saving throw or be poisoned for 1 minute. While poisoned in 
this way, the target is also paralyzed. The target can repeat the 
saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on 
itself on a success.
Sword Talons. Melee Weapon Attack. +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) slashing damage.
Hydroloth
Medium fiend (yugoloth), neutral evil
Armor Class 15
Hit Points 135 (18d8 + 54)
Speed 20 ft., swim 40 ft.
	
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
	 12 (+1)	
21 (+5)	
16 (+3)	
19 (+4)	
10 (+1)	
14 (+2)
Skills Insight +4, Perception +4
Damage Vulnerabilities fire
Damage Resistances cold, lightning; bludgeoning, piercing, and
slashing from nonmagical attacks
Damage Immunities acid, poison
Condition Immunities poisoned
Senses blindsight 60 ft., darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 14
Languages Abyssal, Infernal, telepathy 60 ft.
Challenge 9 (5,000 XP)
Amphibious. The hydroloth can breathe air and water.
Innate Spellcasting. The hydroloth's innate spell casting ability is 
Intelligence (spell save DC 16). It can innately cast the following 
spells, requiring no material components:
At will: darkness, detect magic, dispel magic, invisibility (self 
only), water walk
3/day each: control water, crown of madness,fear, phantasmal 
killer, suggestion
Magic Resistance. The hydroloth has advantage on saving 
throws against spells and other magical effects.
Magic Weapons. The hydroloth's weapon attacks are magical.
Secure Memory. The hydroloth is immune to the waters of the 
River Styx as well as any effect that would steal or modify its 
memories or detect or read its thoughts.
Watery Advantage. While submerged in liquid, the hydroloth 
has advantage on attack rolls.
Actions
Multiattack. The hydroloth makes two melee attacks. In 
place of one of these attacks, it can cast one spell that takes l 
action to cast.
Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. 
Hit: 14 (2d8 + 5) slashing damage.
Bite. Me/ee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. 
Hit: 16 (2d10 + 5) piercing damage.
Steal Memory (1/Day). The hydroloth targets one creature it can 
see within 60 feet of it. The target takes 4d6 psychic damage, 
and it must make a DC 16 Intelligence saving throw. On a 
successful save, the target becomes immune to this hydroloth's 
Steal Memory for 24 hours. On a failed save, the target loses all 
proficiencies, it can't cast spells, it can't understand language, 
and if its Intelligence and Charisma scores are higher than 5, 
they become 5. Each time the target finishes a long rest, it can 
repeat the saving throw, ending the effect on itself on a success. 
A greater restoration or remove curse spell cast on the target 
ends this effect early.
Teleport. The hydroloth magically teleports, along with 
any equipment it is wearing or carrying, up to 60 feet to an 
unoccupied space it can see.

--- PAGE 33 ---
Appendix A | Monsters & NPCs 
32
Merregon
Large fiend (demon), chaotic evil
Armor Class 16 (natural armor)
Hit Points 45 (6d8 + 18) )
Speed 30 ft.
	
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
	  18 (+4)	
14 (+2)	
17 (+3)	
6 (-2)	
12 (+1)	
8 (-1)
Damage Resistances cold; bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing 
from nonmagical attacks that aren't silvered
Damage Immunities fire, poison
Condition Immunities frightened, poisoned
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 11
Languages understands Abyssal but can't speak
Challenge 4 (1,000 XP)
Devil’s Sight. Magical darkness doesn’t impede the 
merregon’s darkvision.
Magic Resistance. The merregon has advantage on saving 
throws against spells and other magical effects.
Actions
Multiattack. The merregon makes two halberd attacks, or if an 
allied fiend of challenge rating 6 or higher is within 60 feet of it, 
the merregon makes three halberd attacks.
Halberd. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 10 ft., one 
target. Hit: 9 (1d10 + 4) slashing damage.
Heavy Crossbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, range 
100/400 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d10 + 2) piercing damage.
Reactions
Loyal Bodyguard. When another fiend within 5 feet of the 
merregon is hit by an attack, the merregon causes itself to be 
hit instead.
Merrenoloth
Medium fiend (yugoloth), neutral evil
Armor Class 13
Hit Points 40 (9d8) 
Speed 30 ft., swim 40 ft.
	
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
	 8 (-1)	
17 (+3)	
10 (+0)	
17 (+3)	
14 (+2)	
11 (+0)
Saving Throws Dex +5, Int +5
Skills History +5, Nature +5, Perception +4, Survival +4
Damage Resistances  cold, fire, lightning; bludgeoning, piercing, 
and slashing from nonmagical attacks
Damage Immunities  acid, poison
Condition Immunities  poisoned
Senses blindsight 60 ft., darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 14
Languages Abyssal, Infernal, telepathy 60 ft.
Challenge 3 (700 XP)
Innate Spellcasting. The merrenoloth’s spellcasting ability is 
Intelligence (spell save DC 13). It can innately cast the following 
spells, requiring no material components:
At will: charm person, darkness, detect magic, dispel magic, 
gust of wind
3/day: control water
1/day: control weather
Magic Resistance. The merrenoloth has advantage on saving 
throws against spells and other magical effects. 
Magic Weapons. The merrenoloth’s weapon attacks are magical.
Teleport. As a bonus action, the merrenoloth magically 
teleports, along with any equipment it is wearing or carrying, up 
to 60 feet to an unoccupied space it can see.
Actions
Multiattack. The merrenoloth uses Fear Gaze once and makes 
one oar attack.
Oar. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 
8 (2d4 + 3) bludgeoning damage. 
Fear Gaze. The merrenoloth targets one creature it can see 
within 60 feet of it. The target must succeed on a DC 13 Wisdom 
saving throw or become frightened of the merrenoloth for 1 
minute. The frightened creature can repeat the saving throw 
at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself 
on a success.

--- PAGE 34 ---
Appendix A | Monsters & NPCs 
33
Nupperibo
Medium fiend (devil), lawful evil
Armor Class 13 (Natural)
Hit Points 11 (2d8 + 2)
Speed 20 ft.
	
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
	 16 (+3)	
11 (+0)	
13 (+1)	
3 (-4)	
8 (-1)	
1 (-5)
Skills Perception +1
Damage Resistances Acid, Cold; Bludgeoning, Piercing, and 
Slashing from Nonmagical Attacks that aren't Silvered
Damage Immunities Fire, Poison
Condition Immunities Blinded, Charmed, Frightened, Poisoned
Senses Blindsight 10 ft. (blind beyond this radius), Passive 
Perception 11
Languages understands Infernal but can’t speak
Challenge 1/2 (100 XP)
Cloud of Vermin. Any creature, other than a devil, that starts 
its turn within 20 feet of the nupperibo must make a DC 11 
Constitution saving throw. A creature within the areas of two or 
more nupperibos makes the saving throw with disadvantage. On 
a failure, the creature takes 2 (1d4) piercing damage.
Hunger-Driven. In the Nine Hells, the nupperibos can flawlessly 
track any creature that has taken damage from any nupperibo’s 
Cloud of Vermin within the previous 24 hours.
Actions
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 
6 (1d6 + 3) piercing damage.
Orthon
Large fiend (devil), lawful evil
Armor Class 17 (half plate)
Hit Points 105 (10d10 + 50)
Speed 30 ft., climb 30 ft.
	
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
	 22 (+6)	
16 (+3)	
21 (+5)	
15 (+2)	
15 (+2)	
16 (+3)
Saving Throws Dex +7, Con +9, Wis +6
Skills Perception +10, Stealth +11, Survival +10
Damage Resistances cold; bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing
from nonmagical attacks that aren't silvered
Damage Immunities fire , poison
Condition Immunities charmed, exhaustion, poisoned
Senses darkvision 120 ft., truesight 30 ft., passive Perception 20
Languages Common, Infernal, telepathy 120 ft.
Challenge 10 (5,900 XP)
Invisibility Field. The orthon can use a bonus action to become 
invisible. Any equipment the orthon wears or carries is also 
invisible as long as the equipment is on its person. This 
invisibility ends immediately after the orthon makes an attack 
roll or is hit by an attack.
Magic Resistance. The orthon has advantage on saving throws 
against spells and other magical effects.
Actions
Infernal Dagger. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., 
one target. Hit: 11 (2d4 + 6) slashing damage, and the target 
must make a DC 17 Constitution saving throw, taking 22 (4d10) 
poison damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a 
successful one. On a failure, the target is also poisoned for 1 
minute. The poisoned target can repeat the saving throw at the 
end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success.
Infernal Crossbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, range 
100/400 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d10 + 3) piercing damage, plus 
one of the following effects:
1.	 Acid. The target must make a DC 17 Constitution saving 
throw, taking an additional 17 (5d6) acid damage on a failed 
save, or half as much damage on a successful one.
2.	 Blindness (1/Day). The target takes 5 (1d10) radiant damage. 
In addition, the target and all other creatures within 20 feet of 
it must each make a successful DC 17 Dexterity saving throw 
or be blinded until the end of the orthon’s next turn.
3.	 Concussion. The target and each creature within 20 feet of 
it must make a DC 17 Constitution saving throw, taking 13 
(2d12) thunder damage on a failed save, or half as much 
damage on a successful one.
4.	 Entanglement. The target must make a successful DC 17 
Dexterity saving throw or be restrained for 1 hour by strands 
of sticky webbing. A restrained creature can escape by using 
an action to make a successful DC 17 Dexterity or Strength 
check. Any creature other than an orthon that touches the 
restrained creature must make a successful DC 17 Dexterity 
saving throw or become similarly restrained.
5.	 Paralysis (1/Day). The target takes 22 (4d10) lightning 
damage and must make a successful DC 17 Constitution 
saving throw or be paralyzed for 1 minute. The paralyzed 
target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its 
turns, ending the effect on itself on a success.
6.	 Tracking. For the next 24 hours, the orthon knows the 
direction and distance to the target, as long as it’s on the 
same plane of existence. If the target is on a different plane, 
the orthon knows which one, but not the exact location there.
Reactions
Explosive Retribution. When it is reduced to 15 hit points or 
fewer, the orthon causes itself to explode. All other creatures 
within 30 feet of it must each make a DC 17 Dexterity saving 
throw, taking 9 (2d8) fire damage plus 9 (2d8) thunder damage 
on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. 
This explosion destroys the orthon, its infernal dagger, and its 
brass crossbow.

--- PAGE 35 ---
Appendix A | Monsters & NPCs 
Rutterkin
Medium fiend (demon), chaotic evil
Armor Class 12
Hit Points 37 (5d8 + 15)
Speed 20 ft.
	
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
	 14(+2)	
15(+2)	
17(+3)	
5(−3)	
12(+1)	
6(−2)
Damage Resistances cold, fire, lightning
Damage Immunities poison
Condition Immunities charmed, frightened, poisoned
Senses darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 11
Languages understands Abyssal but can’t speak
Challenge 2 (450 XP)
Crippling Fear. When a creature that isn’t a demon starts its 
turn within 30 feet of three or more rutterkins, it must make 
a DC 11 Wisdom saving throw. The creature has disadvantage 
on the save if it’s within 30 feet of six or more rutterkins. On a 
successful save, the creature is immune to the Crippling Fear 
of all rutterkins for 24 hours. On a failed save, the creature 
becomes frightened of the rutterkins for 1 minute. While 
frightened in this way, the creature is restrained. At the end of 
each of the frightened creature’s turns, it can repeat the saving 
throw, ending the effect on itself on a success.
Actions
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 
12 (3d6 + 2) piercing damage. If the target is a creature, it must 
succeed on a DC 13 Constitution saving throw against disease 
or become poisoned. At the end of each long rest, the poisoned 
target can repeat the saving throw, ending the effect on itself on 
a success. If the target is reduced to 0 hit points while poisoned 
in this way, it dies and instantly transforms into a living abyssal 
wretch. The transformation of the body can be undone only by 
a wish spell.
Warlock of the Archfey
Medium humanoid (any race), any alignment
Armor Class 11 (14 with mage armor)
Hit Points 49 (11d8)
Speed 30 ft.
	
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
	 9 (–1)	
13 (+1)	
11 (+0)	
11 (+0)	
12 (+1)	
18 (+4)
Saving Throws Wis +3, Cha +6
Skills Arcana +2, Deception +6, Nature +2, Persuasion +6
Condition Immunities charmed
Senses passive Perception 11
Languages any two languages (usually Sylvan)
Challenge 4 (1,100 XP)
Innate Spellcasting. The warlock’s innate spellcasting ability is 
Charisma. It can innately cast the following spells (spell save DC 
15), requiring no material components:
At will: disguise self, mage armor (self only), silent image, 
speak with animals
1/day: conjure fey
Spellcasting. The warlock is a 11th-level spellcaster. Its 
spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 14, +6 to hit with 
spell attacks). It regains its expended spell slots when it finishes 
a short or long rest. It knows the following warlock spells:
Cantrips (at will): dancing lights, eldritch blast, friends, mage 
hand, minor illusion, prestidigitation, vicious mockery
1st–5th level (3 5th-level slots): blink, charm person, dimension 
door, dominate beast, faerie fire, fear, hold monster, misty step, 
phantasmal force, seeming, sleep
Actions
Dagger. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 5 ft. or 
range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 4 (1d4 + 2) piercing damage.
Reactions
Misty Escape (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). In response 
to taking damage, the warlock turns invisible and teleports up 
to 60 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. It remains invisible 
until the start of its next turn or until it attacks, makes a damage 
roll, or casts a spell.

--- PAGE 36 ---
Appendix A | Monsters & NPCs 
35
35
Warlock of the Fiend
Medium humanoid (any race), any alignment
Armor Class 12 (15 with mage armor)
Hit Points 78 (12d8 + 24)
Speed 30 ft.
	
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
	 10 (+0)	
14 (+2)	
15 (+2)	
12 (+1)	
12 (+1)	
18 (+4)
Saving Throws Wis +4, Cha +7
Skills Arcana +4, Deception +7, Persuasion +7, Religion +4
Damage Resistances slashing damage from nonmagical attacks 
not made with silvered weapons
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 11
Languages any two languages (usually Abyssal or Infernal)
Challenge 7 (2,900 XP)
Innate Spellcasting. The warlock’s innate spellcasting ability is 
Charisma. It can innately cast the following spells (spell save DC 
15), requiring no material components:
At will: alter self, false life, levitate (self only), mage armor (self 
only), silent image
1/day each: feeblemind, finger of death, plane shift
Spellcasting. The warlock is a 17th-level spellcaster. Its 
spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 15, +7 to hit with 
spell attacks). It regains its expended spell slots when it finishes 
a short or long rest. It knows the following warlock spells:
Cantrips (at will): eldritch blast, fire bolt, friends, mage hand, 
minor illusion, prestidigitation, shocking grasp
1st–5th level (4 5th-level slots): banishment, burning hands, 
flame strike, hellish rebuke, magic circle, scorching ray, scrying, 
stinking cloud, suggestion, wall of fire
Dark One’s Own Luck (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). 
When the warlock makes an ability check or saving throw, it can 
add a d10 to the roll. It can do this after the roll is made but 
before any of the roll’s effects occur.
Actions
Mace. Melee Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. 
Hit: 3 (1d6) bludgeoning damage plus 10 (3d6) fire damage.
Warlock of the Great Old One
Medium humanoid (any race), any alignment
Armor Class 12 (15 with mage armor)
Hit Points 91 (14d8 + 28)
Speed 30 ft.
	
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
	 9 (–1)	
14 (+2)	
15 (+2)	
12 (+1)	
12 (+1)	
18 (+4)
Saving Throws Wis +4, Cha +7
Skills Arcana +4, History +4
Damage Resistances psychic
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 11
Languages any two languages, telepathy 30 ft.
Challenge 6 (2,300 XP)
Innate Spellcasting. The warlock’s innate spellcasting ability is 
Charisma. It can innately cast the following spells (spell save DC 
15), requiring no material components:
At will: detect magic, jump, levitate, mage armor (self only), 
speak with dead
1/day each: arcane gate, true seeing
Spellcasting. The warlock is a 14th-level spellcaster. Its 
spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 15, +7 to hit with 
spell attacks). It regains its expended spell slots when it finishes 
a short or long rest. It knows the following warlock spells:
Cantrips (at will): chill touch, eldritch blast, guidance, mage hand, 
minor illusion, prestidigitation, shocking grasp
1st–5th level (3 5th-level slots): armor of Agathys, arms of Hadar, 
crown of madness, clairvoyance, contact other plane, detect 
thoughts, dimension door, dissonant whispers, dominate beast, 
telekinesis, vampiric touch
Whispering Aura. At the start of each of the warlock’s turns, 
each creature of its choice within 5 feet of it must succeed on a 
DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or take 10 (3d6) psychic damage, 
provided that the warlock isn’t incapacitated.
Actions
Dagger. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft. or 
range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 4 (1d4 + 2) piercing damage.

--- PAGE 37 ---
Appendix B | Magic Items
36
Appendix B: Magic Items
The following magic items are found in the encounters.
Charlatan’s Die
Wondrous item, common
Whenever you roll this six-sided die, you can control 
which number it rolls.
Ear Horn of Hearing
Wondrous item, common
While held up to your ear, this horn suppresses the effects 
of the deafened condition on you, allowing you to hear 
normally.
Lock of Trickery
Wondrous item, common
This lock appears to be an ordinary lock (of the type 
described in chapter 5 of the Player’s Handbook) and 
comes with a single key. The tumblers in this lock 
magically adjust to thwart burglars. Dexterity checks 
made to pick the lock have disadvantage.
Moon-Touched Longsword
Weapon (longsword), common
In darkness, the unsheathed blade of this longsword 
sheds moonlight, creating bright light in a 15-foot radius 
and dim light for an additional 15 feet.
Poppet
Wondrous item, rare
Upon first glance this item appears to be no more than 
a simple burlap doll in the shape of humanoid. Each 
poppet is made with the essence of a specific humanoid 
(and if the poppet is found, the DM determines which 
humanoid’s essence the doll contains). You can use 
the doll in a ritual that targets the creature, as long as 
you know the creature’s name and that creature is on 
the same plane as you. The ritual requires 10 minutes 
and an item that belonged to the humanoid tied to the 
poppet: this can be a scrap of clothing, a lock of hair, a 
piece of jewelry, or any item that denotes sentiment or 
identity. At the end of the ritual the item that belonged to 
the humanoid is consumed and the target must succeed 
on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw or gain a level of 
exhaustion from experiencing excruciating internal pain. 
You may use the poppet to complete this ritual once every 
12 hours.