                   - Optional Class Rules -
While the classes of the Adventures in Middle-earth Player’s Guide are carefully cultivated to provide the best
match to the source material, Loremasters and players might want additional options to suit their group’s play
styles. The following rules packages are strictly optional and replace the indicated class features.

Scholar
Hands of a Healer
(replacing the first paragraph of this ability)
You know how to treat wounds, illnesses and poisonings. You have a pool of healing tricks and techniques that
replenishes when you take a long rest. You have Healing Dice (1d6) equal to 1 plus your Proficiency Bonus.

Improved Healing
(replacing that of the same name)
When you choose this speciality at 3rd level you become an expert at treating injuries. You regain your Healing
Dice whenever you take a short rest instead of a long rest.

Healer’s Staunching Song
(replacing that of the same name)
The words of this song and its special tune can help wounds close and help heal injuries. Once you have learned
this song, you can spend Inspiration during a short rest to sing the healing words. Each member of the company
recovers hit points equal to 2d4 + your Wisdom modifier.

Softer Underneath
(replacing that of the same name)
Your studies of the anatomy of various creatures and beings have granted you an intimate knowledge of their
weaknesses. You may spend your bonus action or your reaction (but not both in one round) to give yourself or a
companion a bonus to a damage roll equal to your Intelligence modifier..

Student of War
(adding to the list of Secret Lores)
You may use your action to study a foe, gaining insight about their tactics and abilities. You have Advantage on
attacks and saving throws against that target until the combat ends. Once you use this ability, you must take a
short rest before using it again.
Warden
Armour Proficiencies
All Wardens are proficient with light armour and shields. Heralds gain proficiency with medium armour as well
as martial weapons.

Warden’s Gift
(replacing that of the same name)
You inspire others by your deeds, your stirring words, your music or your presence alone. You have a number
of Gift dice (1d6) equal to 1 plus your Proficiency Bonus. The die type does not change as you progress in levels.

When an ally is about to attempt an ability check, attack roll, or saving throw you may use your reaction to give
them one of your Gift dice. They then add the result of the die to their total. You may wait until they roll the d20
before deciding whether or not to give them a die.

You regain all of your Gift dice after a long rest.

Deadly Names
(replacing Jack of All Trades)
Also at 2nd level, if you have just struck a servant of the Enemy in combat, you can spend your bonus action
and one of your Gift dice in order to invoke the power of Elder Days and those distant lords and ladies. Apply
the result of the Gift die as radiant damage to your target.

Dauntless
(replacing that of the same name)
At 5th level, you recover your Gift dice after a short rest.

A Red Day
(replacing Songs of Slaying)
As long as you are not Surprised, you may spend your Inspiration to speak words of encouragement to an ally
just before battle is joined. Give that ally one of your Gift dice. It rolls the die and adds your Charisma modifier,
gaining that many temporary hit points until the end of the battle. Additionally, the ally has Advantage on its
first saving throw in the combat.

Faithful Protector
(add to the abilities granted at 3rd level to Bounders)
You can spend Inspiration when you roll initiative to nominate one target as your ward. As long as your ward is
within 5 feet of you, it may use your AC value instead of its own.

Ceaseless Guard
(replacing the last line of that feature)
You may use one of your Gift dice, adding the result to your AC against this attack only.
