--- PAGE 1 ---
Save Dale and the Lonely Mountain in these six linked ready to play
 adventures for the world’s greatest fantasy setting
TM
TM

--- PAGE 2 ---
TM
TM
TM
TM
TM
TM

--- PAGE 3 ---
Written by John Arcadian, Paul Butler, Gareth Hanrahan, Jon Hodgson, Andrew Kenrick, T.S. Luikart, Paul 
Mitchener, Francesco Nepitello, Jacob Rodgers, James Semple, John Semple and Graham Spearing
Converted by Jacob Rodgers
Producer: Emmet Byrne
Cover Art: Ralph Horsley
Artists: Jon Hodgson, Sam Manley, Jan Pospíšil and Scott Purdy
Editors: Emmet Byrne, Jon Hodgson, Andrew Kenrick, T.S. Luikart, Francesco Nepitello and Christopher Walz
Graphic Design and Layout: Paul Bourne and Rory McCormack
Proofreaders: David Rea, Jacob Rodgers, James Semple and Michele Garbuggio
Publisher: Dominic McDowall

Based on The One Ring Roleplaying Game by Francesco Nepitello and Marco Maggi
© Sophisticated Games Ltd 2019     © Cubicle 7 Entertainment Ltd 2019
To find out more about Adventures in Middle-earth, and 
to subscribe to our newsletter, please go to: www.cubicle7games.com
Product Identity: The following items are hereby identified as Product Identity, as defined in the Open Game License version 1.0a, Section 1(e), and are not Open 
Content: All trademarks, registered trade-marks, proper names (characters, place names, etc.), new rules, classes, items, virtues, backgrounds, places, characters, 
artwork, sidebars, and trade dress. Open Game Content: The Open content in this book includes material taken from the Systems Reference Document. No other 
portion of this work may be reproduced in any form without permission.
Published by Sophisticated Games Ltd, 3 Andersen Court, Newnham Road, Cambridge CB3 9EZ, UK and 
Cubicle 7 Entertainment Ltd, Unit 6, Block 3, City North Business Campus, Gormanston, 
Co. Meath. K32 DP60, Ireland.
 
 
The One Ring, Middle-earth, The Hobbit, The Lord of the Rings, and the characters, items, events and places therein are trademarks or registered trademarks of The 
Saul Zaentz Company d/b/a Middle-earth Enterprises and are used under license by Sophisticated Games Ltd and their respective licensees. All rights reserved. No 
part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording 
or otherwise, without the prior permission of the publishers. 
Printed in Lithuania
- CREDITS -
2

--- PAGE 4 ---
- CONTENTS -
introduction	
4
How  to Use This guide	
6
Experience Awards	
8
The Passing of  Years	
8
the silver needle	
9
Adventuring Phase	
9
Part One - At the Traders Gate	
9
Part Two -  Searching the Roads	
15
Part Three -  Thieves in the Dale	
17
Part Four  - The Bandits’ Lair	
21
Epilogue	
26
of hammers and anvils	
27
Adventuring Phase	
27
Part One - Like the Falling of Small Stones	
28
Part Two  - A Grim Toy-Market	
30
Part Three - Uphill and Down Dale	
32
Part Four - An Interested Lord	
38
Part Five - In Deep Places	
42
Part Six - Treachery & Wisdom	
44
Epilogue	
45
to dungeons deep	
46
Adventuring Phase	
46
Part One - At the Court of the Grieving King	
48
Part Two - To the Grey Mountain Narrows	
50
Part Three - Hunters in the Waste	
52
Part Four - The Mausoleum	
56
Part Five - Wings of Iron	
60
Part Six - Clouds Gather,  Again	
62
Epilogue	
65
sleeping dragons lie	
66
Adventuring Phase	
66
Part One - Smoke on the Horizon	
67
Part Two - On Dragons	
70
Part Three - The Shadow of his Wing	
73
Part Four - Across the New Desolation	
80
Part Five - Approaching the Watchtower	
86
Part Six - By Stealth and Guile	
89
Part Seven - Slaying the Dragon	
94
Epilogue	
96
dark waters	
97
Adventuring Phase	
97
Part One - At the Sign of the Pike and Eel	
98
Part Two - The Apprentice	
102
Part Three - Tales, Secrets and Lies	
104
Part Four - The Guild of Artisians	
107
Part Five - Elf Stones and Dwarven Gold	
110
Part Six - Whispers in the Dark	
112
Part Seven - Floatsam and Jetsam	
115
Epilogue 	
118
shadows in the north	
119
Adventuring Phase	
119
Part - One Expected Visitors	
119
Part Two - The Vale of Bones	
121
Part Three - A Warm Welcome	
128
Part Four - The City of Bells	
135
Part Five - Inside Information	
140
Part Six - The Concert of Kings	
142
Part Seven - Flight into the Mountain	
144
Epilogue	
151
Appendix: 	
153
Appendix A: Nazgul of the North	
153
Appendix B: Loremaster Characters	
158
Appendix C: Places and Things	
159

--- PAGE 5 ---
INTRODUCTION
Erebor Adventures
4
This supplement presents six ready-to-play adventures 
for your Company of heroes, complete scenarios that 
concern both the Dwarves of Erebor and the Men of Dale. 
They can be played separately, or as a series of connected 
adventures set in the years after 2956 and taking place in 
and around the Lonely Mountain. These adventures draw 
on the setting details contained in the Lonely Mountain 
Region Guide, and that supplement contains information 
needed to run this series of adventures. Furthermore, 
these adventures can be integrated with the Mirkwood 
Campaign, and, while that volume is not essential, having 
it on hand will be helpful as well.
With the death of Smaug and the return of hope to the 
region, Sauron’s plans to bring Dragon-fire and savage 
swords to Wilderland have been momentarily foiled. 
Thwarted and enraged by Gandalf’s scheming, the Lord 
of Mordor has ordered another one of his Ringwraiths to 
leave Minas Morgul and travel to Rhovanion to plunge the 
North into a state of ruin. 
This time, Sauron’s chosen agent will act with subtlety, 
enthralling Men and perverting the desire of Dwarves and 
Elves so that their own deeds will further the will of the 
Dark Tower.
Following are summaries of the six adventures presented 
in the supplement.
- INTRODUCTION -
Then Smaug really did laugh… “Revenge!” he 
snorted, and the light of his eyes lit the hall 
from floor to ceiling like scarlet lightning. 
“Revenge! The King under the Mountain is dead 
and where are his kin that dare seek revenge? 
Girion Lord of Dale is dead… where are his 
sons’ sons that dare approach me?”

--- PAGE 6 ---
5
Introduction
The Silver Needle
A mysterious Bandit-lord known by the name of 
Longo wants to steal a wondrous artefact in Dale. The 
adventurers become involved to stop the bandits and run 
afoul of Orcs in the marshes and in Dale itself. The first 
hints at a conspiracy are encountered.
Of Hammers and Anvils
The company rescues the famed Dwarf Balin and helps 
him investigate a number of troubling events in Dale. A 
plan attempting to mar the peace of Erebor is uncovered, 
and sabotage must be avoided.
To Dungeons Deep
The discovery of a long-lost heirloom of the House of 
Girion threatens to sow mistrust between the crowns 
of Erebor and Dale. Wisdom is required to prevent old 
grudges from resurfacing.
Sleeping Dragons Lie
In the Withered Heath, someone, or something, has kindled 
the wrath of a dragon, and the great monster threatens to 
unleash his fury on the Dalelands. The companions travel 
to the peak of Zirakinbar, in a desperate attempt to spare 
Erebor from certain destruction.
Dark Waters
The companions are in Esgaroth for the upcoming annual 
celebration of Dragontide. They have come to see the 
presentation of the bronze statue of King Bard, but soon 
become entangled in a web of revenge, secrets and lies.
Shadows in the North
When Balin warns of a threat to both Mountain and City, 
he does not realise that traitorous forces manipulate him. 
The heroes must use subtlety and rely upon the bonds of 
friendship to win their freedom. Then they must confront the 
greatest servants of the Enemy to prevent war in the North.

--- PAGE 7 ---
HOW  TO USE THIS GUIDE
Erebor Adventures
6
How to Use This Guide
Even if each quest presented in this supplement is played 
as a stand-alone adventure, they tell a wider tale between 
the lines. The bond tying Dáin and Bard and their cities 
is being tested by a treacherous plan set in motion by 
the Dark Lord. Minions of Sauron are working behind 
the scenes to to sow strife and discord, twisting the will 
of mortals and using them to strike unseen from the 
shadows.
The following descriptions present the main personalities 
that appear in several of the adventures in this volume. 
These represent the main cast of characters working for 
or against the dark conspiracy threatening the unity of the 
northern kingdoms. 
The Sorcerer of Forod
The great schemer behind the majority of the plots in 
this supplement is the Sorcerer of Forod, one of the nine 
Nazgûl. Known once among the Elves as Morlach, the 
Black Flame, he was a wise and noble man among the 
Northmen of Rhovanion. His spirit was ensnared by the 
Dark Lord with promises of endless knowledge. Sauron 
eventually gave him a ring of power, enabling him to 
wield great sorcery, but condemned him to fade and 
eventually become a bodiless wraith. When the Sorcerer 
finally shed his mortal appearance and became one 
of the Ringwraiths, Sauron unleashed him against the 
North. Some say that it is due to his malevolence that the 
Dragons of the Northern Wastes were roused and made to 
attack the Dwarves of the Grey Mountains.
Now, the Sorcerer of Forod has been sent back to the 
North by his Master. The Ringwraith knows the lands 
and the people of Rhovanion very well, and he intends to 
employ this lore to sow discontent and strife over many 
years. When the bonds between the free folk of the North 
are weakened to the breaking point, a direct strike will 
have maximum efficacy. A simple attempt at the lives of 
Bard or Dáin will not do: The rising spirit of hope in the 
region must be broken, and its people made ready for the 
dominion of Mordor when that time comes.
In most of the adventures the actions of the Sorcerer of 
Forod occur behind the scenes, without the companions 
being able to encounter the Nazgûl face to face. In 
Shadows in the North, the deeds of the Player-heroes will 
force the Ringwraith’s hand, and he will reveal himself 
in a desperate bid to topple the throne of Erebor. (see 
the Appendix on page 154 for the characteristics of the 
Sorcerer of Forod).
Hakon and Jofur
Hakon and Jofur appear in Erebor Adventures as two 
powerful courtiers who are helping King Bard in his day-
to-day activities. Starting from the year 2957, when the 
King’s mood begins keeping him away from the public eye 
more and more, Hakon and Jofur begin taking his place. 
Where generally their help is welcomed by most, some say 
that the two nobles are taking advantage of this moment 
of weakness on part of the King.
Lord Hakon
Not all of Sauron’s servants are wraiths. Hakon is a Barding 
thegn who was once a rich and influential merchant from 
Lake-town (first seen in the Lonely Mountain Region 
Invoking Personality Traits
The Adventures in Middle-earth Player’s Guide 
provides information on how to use a hero’s traits 
(Distinctive 
Quality, 
Speciality, 
Hope 
and 
Despair) to earn Inspiration and provides details 
on combining Specialities and ability checks. In 
order to help highlight the traits that make each 
hero unique, Erebor Adventures provides additional 
optional rules for using a companion’s Distinctive 
Quality.
When an adventure notes that a particular trait 
can be invoked, a Player-hero with that Distinctive 
Quality automatically receives the result, which 
is usually something that would require an ability 
check. If no heroes have the appropriate Distinctive 
Quality and the adventure doesn’t specify a check, 
the Loremaster should call for a DC 10 check of 
the appropriate ability to achieve the result instead.
A Loremaster character can invoke a trait to grant 
Advantage or Disadvantage on a Player-hero’s roll.

--- PAGE 8 ---
7
Introduction
Guide, page 61). He lost everything when Smaug fell on 
the city, and has been struggling to recover his former 
status ever since. Nominally a supporter of King Bard, 
Hakon spent years building a web of allies among rogues 
and criminals to pursue his personal aims, while at the 
same time posing as a trustworthy advisor to the throne 
of Dale. 
When the Sorcerer of Forod returned to the North, the 
Ringwraith came to see the courtier at Hakon’s holdings in 
the Upper Marches. There, the Nazgûl made him an offer 
the thegn could not refuse, and Lord Hakon has been in 
Morlach’s grasp ever since.
Manipulated by the Sorcerer of Forod into believing he 
would be a better King, Hakon is putting all his efforts and 
resources to bring the downfall of Bard. He is unaware 
that the promised crown will mean very little should 
Mordor’s plans come to full fruition.
Thegn Jofur
Jofur descends from a family from the southern Nether 
Marches that long ago settled in Lake-town. An official of 
the city of Dale, he strongly believes that the welfare of the 
realm should rely on the decisions of wise men and on 
the rule of law, not on the violent intervention of powerful 
lords (or even so-called ‘heroes’, for that matter). This 
position often puts him at odds with Lord Hakon, even 
if he doesn’t suspect the nobleman to be anything more 
than exceedingly ambitious.
His uncompromising ideals can even make him appear 
to be the villain of the campaign in several instances, 
and Jofur is likely to be disliked by the Company, if not 
considered to be guilty of great wrongdoing. Nothing 
could be further from the truth: Jofur is steadfastly loyal to 
King Bard, but knows how delicate the balance of power is 
right now, with a weakened ruler on the throne.
Balin, Son of Fundin
One of Thorin’s Company who accompanied Bilbo’s 
adventure to the Lonely Mountain, Balin is committed to 
peace in the region more than anyone else in Erebor. He 
works tirelessly as a loyal servant of King Dáin, and as 
a friend of King Bard. Distraught at watching everything 
he worked to restore sink into misery, Balin seeks to 
preserve the alliance of the two kingdoms at all costs. He 
undertakes what needs to be done behind the scenes to 
maintain the good times that the death of the Dragon has 
brought to Erebor and Dale. (Read more about Balin in the 
Lonely Mountain Region Guide on page 24). 
Journey Events
The Lonely Mountain Region Guide provides an 
extensive set of example standard Journey Events 
customised for the lands around Erebor and includes 
some characters that appear in Erebor Adventures. 
However, there are additional custom Journey 
Events provided herein for certain adventures. These 
can be used in substitution for randomly generated 
events or in addition to them.

--- PAGE 9 ---
EXPERIENCE AWARDS
THE PASSING YEARS
Erebor Adventures
8
Experience Awards
Throughout this volume you’ll see symbols in the margin. 
These indicate a chance for the Loremaster to award 
Experience Points for overcoming challenges. These 
opportunities are optional, to be made at the Loremaster’s 
discretion and in accordance with the method of levelling 
they have chosen. 
for non-combat encounters. Just as a combat encounter 
should be scaled to reflect the size of your Company, so 
too should these Awards be scaled to match your group of 
adventurers. If you are running the Mirkwood Campaign 
and Erebor Adventures concurrently, you may wish to 
reduce rewards given in both volumes by 1 step and ignore 
rewards given in the Epilogues in order to keep in line with 
the progression expectations in that larger campaign.
The symbols in red represent an individual achievement and 
are awarded to a single hero. Those in green are intended 
to be divided amongst the Company. Experience derived 
from battle is calculated according to the core rules – for 
the sake of simplicity and consistency there is no change 
there.
The Passing of Years
If you want to follow the default pacing of gameplay 
suggested for Adventures in Middle-earth, playing all 
the adventures contained in Erebor Adventures should 
take several years.The Silver Needle might begin in 
2957 after the tragic death of Queen Una the previous 
year. If the pace of one adventure per year continues, 
this places Shadows in the North opening in the year 
2962. 
A faster pace might put The Silver Needle and 
Of Hammers and Anvils in the same year, To 
Dungeons Deep the next year, Sleeping Dragons 
Lie the spring afterwards, with Dark Waters that 
same year or next. In any case, some time should pass 
before the final confrontation found in Shadows in 
the North.
They might form a direct, numerical award, or a silently 
observed instance that counts towards gaining a whole 
level if enough are checked off. 
Every game will vary, but these Experience Awards have been 
calculated to offer a good chance for a typical Company to level 
up in accordance with the pace we suggest for this campaign.
Erebor Adventures makes use of the Companion and 
Challenge Rating Experience Award Table (provided below) 
Individual
Award
Group
Award
Challenge	
XP	
Challenge	
XP	
  1	
	
200
  2	
	
450
  3	
	
750
  4	
	
1,100
  5	
	
1,800
  6	
	
2,300
  7	
	
2,900
  8	
	
3,900
  9	
	
5,000
 10	
	
5,900
 11	
	
7,200
 12	
	
8,400

--- PAGE 10 ---
THE SILVER NEEDLE
PART ONE AT THE TRADERS GATE
ADVENTURING PHASE
9
The Silver Needle
For heroes of level 6 or 7
•	
When: This adventure is set at the end of the summer 
of the year 2957.
•	
Where: The companions start in the city of Dale, 
leave town to track down a bandit leader, and end up 
fighting in the alleys of the Old Quarter.
•	
What: The Company seeks the leader of a bandit 
gang plaguing travellers heading near Dale. The 
companions discover the bandits are after an old 
craftswoman and her prized possession. 
•	
Why: The old woman is the owner of a wondrous item 
possessing great power. It blesses her creations with 
an almost lifelike quality. 
•	
Who: The craftswoman, Kelda, is targeted by Longo 
the Bandit-lord.
•	
Themes: The Company will learn that evil thoughts 
lurk behind pleasant faces, a truth that will serve 
them well as the darkness begins to creep over Dale 
and the Mountain.
Adventuring Phase
This adventure is divided into four parts.
Part One – At the Traders Gate
Traders leave Dale, their carts laden with goods from the 
summer trading season, and their heads full of talk of 
bandits. Evil men attack an old woman. A meek Hobbit 
far from home has information on why she was attacked. 
Part Two – Searching the Roads
The bandits and their leader, Longo, have been seen on the 
roads to the south of Dale. The companions leave Dale to 
find the bandits, but will find more than simple robbers.
Part Three – Thieves in Dale
Rushing back to Dale, the Company finds Kelda’s home engulfed 
in flames. Amongst the crowd, the bandits flee with their prize.
Part Four – The Bandits’ Lair 
A final showdown in the ruins of the Old Quarter.
Epilogue
The Bandit-lord is dealt with and the final disposition of 
the Silver Needle is made.
- THE SILVER NEEDLE-
Of Relics and Needles
The adventure features two Wondrous Artefacts, 
one cursed and one blessed. Longo, a Hobbit-turned-
bandit-leader, years ago found a black dagger-
sheath in the Barrow-downs. Made by the Men 
of Westernesse, the sheath is tainted by a Curse of 
Weakness that awoke dark thoughts of violence and 
murder in the Hobbit and condemned him to a life 
of misdeeds.
The cursed Hobbit seeks the Silver Needle, an 
ancient object of Elven-make, used for centuries to 
create marvellous dresses and clothing that in time 
now in the keeping of Kelda, an embroiderer from 
Dale (see page 11). Longo was informed of the 
needle’s existence by agents of the Sorcerer of Forod, 
who wishes to steal the artefact to further his plans 
of slowly bringing misery and despair to the area. 
But Longo does not require an excuse to desire such 
- Part One – 
At the Traders Gate
The end of the summer trading season has come to Dale. 
For days on end, the Merchants Way teems with carts piled 
high with goods, streaming away from the town. Buyers 
from all over Wilderland and beyond leave the Market 
Square, carrying barrels of salted fish taken from the 
headwaters of the River Running, longbows and shields 
in the Dalish style, and precious woodwork crafted by the 
Elves of Mirkwood. Chief among their prizes though, are 
the cunning, almost magical toys made by the Dwarves of 
the Lonely Mountain, and the extraordinary creations of 
the fire-workers of Dale.
- THE SILVER-
 NEEDLE

--- PAGE 11 ---
Erebor Adventures
10
To the dismay of the many bystanders, eager to leave or 
enter Dale, the Traders Gate has been shut, as the City 
Officials need to see the matter through. Within a few 
minutes, a dozen City Guards exit the gate leading a team 
of mules and start to slowly make their way through the 
assembled crowd to the broken cart: there seems to be no 
other choice but wait for them to help the Dwarves and 
free the road. Heroes eager to assist are shooed away – 
this is ‘official business’ and ‘must be done the right way.’
Patience
The crowd of agitated people waiting for the cart to 
be removed slowly spreads along the walls of the city, 
breaking into small groups composed of people coming 
from the same region. Everyone is complaining, talking 
excitedly and grumbling about the situation. The same, 
obvious solutions to the problem are offered multiple 
times to the City Guards, as they try to patiently navigate 
the situation. 
A large group of Mannish strangers seem to adopt a better, 
more philosophical answer to the trouble at hand: they all 
sit down in a circle to the left of the gate, and start making 
tea on a small campfire; Judging from their garb they all 
seem to hail from the East. When it becomes obvious that 
the wait is not going to be brief, other travellers follow 
their example, and soon several improvised campsites 
appear at the sides of the road.
Waiting, Waiting… 
A half-dozen or so armed companions do not pass 
unobserved in a crowd of old merchants and young 
apprentices. Soon, the heroes find themselves the 
object of many conversations, and the target of multiple 
questions from the most curious. Many queries concern 
the security of Wilderland’s roads, and a matter of 
bandits that are said to prowl the trading routes in recent 
times. 
It seems every traveller here has a story about this 
Bandit-lord, Longo, and his group of vicious Men. The 
true nature of the bandits remains obscure though, as 
one rumour often contradicts another. Some say the 
bandits are half-Orcs, others swear they are Wayward 
Elves, other merchants even imply that the brigands are 
likely hiding amongst the travellers stuck outside the city 
right now!
The Gate is Shut
The Company is just arriving to town. Perhaps they are 
returning from a previous adventure, to enjoy a well-
deserved break in a town they know well, or they might 
even have been called by from an influential patron. 
Whatever the situation, they are on the Merchants Way, 
moving with the flow of traders returning to the city.
As the heroes approach the Traders Gate, they notice 
that the doors are shut and that a large crowd of people 
is assembling in front of the city walls. Getting closer, the 
heroes discover that a cart carrying a heavy load of large 
stone blocks is lying upturned in the middle of the road 
with a broken wheel. An elderly Dwarf is lying motionless 
under the cart. From the excited conversation of a dozen 
Dwarves who are trying to move the broken cart and free 
the unfortunate fellow, the heroes learn that the accident 
may have been the consequence of a heated debate 
between the old merchant and a younger relative, who is 
now sitting by the side of the road, tearing at his beard in 
desperation. 
7

--- PAGE 12 ---
11
The Silver Needle
Faces in the Crowd 
Amongst the people waiting outside the Traders Gate are a 
few individuals whom the characters may take note of or 
have particular interactions with. As the Company is stuck 
outside for a fair amount of time, the Loremaster may use 
the following paragraphs to manage the Company’s  with 
the various merchants and travellers.
Kelda – Old Craftswoman
Kelda is an older Barding woman, with long grey hair 
bound in a braid in the style of the Northern Dalemen. She 
is sitting with her legs crossed, stitching a figure on a small 
girl’s robe, using a slender silver needle and red thread. 
Under Kelda’s expert hands, the stitching soon takes the 
form of a snake, twisting around the button holes of the 
child’s tunic. The small girl is transfixed, as if watching a 
magic worker. Kelda lives within the city and is waiting to 
go home after visiting family in Esgaroth. 
Thulim, Nephew of Dulin – Dwarven Mason
Thulim is the Dwarven mason whose argument with his 
uncle, Dulin, led to the accident. He is worried out of his 
wits about his uncle’s well-being, and would be extremely 
grateful if any adventurer does something to help him (he 
will offer to compensate them with his work). Dulin isn’t 
actually wounded too seriously, but he aims to aggrieve 
his nephew – when drawn out from under the cart, he is 
found to have only suffered a few cuts and bruises. 
The City Guards
Three members of the City Guard watch the crowd of 
travellers waiting to enter Dale, telling everyone to wait at 
the side of the road. They seem annoyed by the situation 
and tolerate little interference from adventurers and 
travellers alike. 
Clovis – A Hobbit
A Hobbit with a large nose, dark hair, and a full head of 
greying curls is sharing some of his bread and cheese 
with a group of travellers, all the while speaking about the 
troubles on the roads lately. He says his name is Clovis, 
and he is the first to mention hearing stories about this 
bandit Longo and his fearsome group. 
When asked about himself, Clovis tells quietly of how he 
was captured by brigands while travelling to Sarn Ford, 
in distant Eriador. He was lucky to escape with his life. He 
says he is finally close to returning home, and is currently 
seeking a caravan heading west, but has travelled enough 
to be choosy about whom he will give his trust. Clovis has 
deep set lines hinting at the many troubles he has faced, 
but has an air of quiet confidence, much like that of a 
seasoned adventurer.
6

--- PAGE 13 ---
Erebor Adventures
12
The Scuffle 
Mixed among the waiting travellers are three Men 
who are keeping a watch over Kelda, the embroiderer. 
They are dressed for travelling, with boots and cloaks, 
and one wears a battered helm. They are waiting for a 
chance to get to her and rob her of something of worth 
to them. 
The chance arrives when a loud, drawn-out creaking 
draws all eyes to the gate - the cart is finally being drawn 
off by the guards and their pack of mules. The wait seems 
to be over and people make ready to approach the gate, 
waiting for the moment when the doors will open. 
As the crowd gathers closer to the Traders Gate, the 
skulking Men make their move: they quickly and silently 
wade through the crowd, reaching Kelda as she is still 
collecting her belongings. Kelda starts screaming as the 
attackers grab at her, their swords drawn, apparently 
trying to take something from her. 
If the companions react quickly and rush to the aid of the 
distressed embroiderer, they find Clovis, the wandering 
Hobbit, already there brandishing a dagger. He succeeded 
in chasing the attackers away and the robbers flee, 
running across the camp of the Easterlings and quickly 
disappearing.
Aftermath
When the dust settles, the City Guards intervene and 
disperse the crowd gathering around the spot where the 
scuffle took place. 
Luckily, Kelda has suffered only small bruises from 
the aggression. If asked, the embroiderer says she is 
not sure why the bandits attacked her, but they were 
grabbing for her pouch. The only thing of value are a 
few luck charms she keeps there, and her tools, like a 
number of needles - the silken and golden threads she 
carries in her backpack are much more valuable, she 
says. Kelda adds that she heard one of the Men say the 
name of the bandit-leader, Longo, and wonders what he 
could want from her. 
Clovis the Hobbit says that he has heard stories about 
Longo as well. 
Katun – Merchant of the Easterlings
The leader of the company of Men from the East is a middle-
aged woman, with a youthful smile and penetrating eyes. 
She offers tea to any travellers who approach her and her 
group. She patiently waits for the gate to open, urging her 
companions to do the same.
Idle Chatter
There are many talking while they wait for the Traders 
Gate to open. Here are some bits of small talk to provide 
atmosphere.
•	
“Kelda is one of the best embroiderers in Dale. Her 
creations aren’t precious in the common sense - she 
doesn’t employ rich fabrics or jewels – but her best 
work looks almost alive.”
•	
“I hear the Dwarves whose cart broke down leaving 
the city tried to sell their stone at almost double the 
price of other quarrymen. Only because it was cut by 
Dwarves!”
•	
“That halfling is so nice. I was feeling unwell and he 
told me about one of his people’s old remedies. I told 
him to come stay with me anytime he is in Dale again.” 
•	
“I’m glad I went through the Grey Mountain Narrows. 
That bandit, Longo, is on the Southern roads and I hear 
he’s been attacking every merchant he encounters!”
•	
“I’ve got 10 pelts that I need to get inside for curing. I 
only partially treated them for travel, and if I don’t get 
them on racks soon they’ll all spoil!”
•	
“Longo’s no threat! I told that halfling over there 
about the time I faced a talking Spider in the forest. He 
just chuckled and told me about a time he was with a 
group that killed four talking Spiders. What a story-
teller. Small bodies make tall tales, aye.”
•	
“I hear tell that someone brought to town a brandy 
distilled in Dorwinion that is so sweet, one drop and 
nothing else will ever taste the same! No thank you! 
If I ever got to try that, I’d never be satisfied with ale 
again!”
•	
“If this cart isn’t cleared within the hour, the king 
himself will hear of it! See if those Dwarves ever trade 
here again! They must be Iron Hill Dwarves. Our 
Dwarves are far more respectful!”
7

--- PAGE 14 ---
13
The Silver Needle
“People are always happy to talk to a Hobbit, and many 
have told me that Longo is an Easterling, but that could 
just be their taste for the exotic. Some other travellers I 
spoke with said the bandits came out of the East, but that’s 
just the Upper Marches, certainly not distant Khand! If 
you seek this Longo out, you’ll probably have to start 
somewhere along the river near there.”
If any companion traded friendly words with Katun, she 
approaches them and confirms that she too heard the 
attackers saying the name Longo. She adds that she has 
heard this name many times already, and has heard the 
rumour about him being an Easterling. Katun seriously 
doubts this, but she is interested in the reputation of her 
folk to be cleared: since the companions are adventurers, 
couldn’t they take the matter into their own capable 
hands, and bring this Longo to justice? Katun could easily 
persuade many merchants to pay them a reward should 
they succeed.
The Gate Opens
Finally, the doors of the Traders Gate are pushed open, 
and the traffic in and out of the city begins to resume in its 
regularity. Within minutes, only a few burnt branches and 
discarded foodstuff remain to mark the spots where the 
waiting merchants set up various improvised campsites.
The companions can now continue into the city, to go 
about their business and experience the comforts of Dale 
(the Loremaster may use the material presented in the 
Lonely Mountain Region Guide, starting from page 35, to 
bring the city to life).
Hidden in Plain Sight 
The Hobbit going by the name of Clovis is the Bandit-
lord Longo, a clever fiend who uses his guile to set up his 
targets. As the trustworthy-looking Clovis from the Shire 
he gathers information, then employs it to remove the 
biggest threats and hurdles, and finally proceeds to seek 
his prize. 
His story of being taken by brigands and escaping is 
true, and he tells it without claiming any falsehoods. This 
makes his cover more believable as he digs into his past 
memories and emotions (a DC 10 Wisdom (Insight) 
check to observe Clovis reveals nothing but a wary 
personality that has lived through many unfortunate 
occurrences). Clovis does truly seek to return to the Shire, 
but desires to amass a large fortune before doing so. 
What he leaves out of his story is that he was born into a 
well-to-do family of the Southfarthing, the only son of an 
innkeeper. Always troubled by a rebellious spirit, Longo 
dreamed of hidden gold and gems, and he was still in 
his tweens when he decided to leave the Shire. Soon, he 
fell into a bad company, a ragtag band of big folk and 
Hobbits, scrounging a meagre living in desolate Eriador 
out of occasional work and small crimes. 
After several years Longo decided he had enough and 
concocted a lamentable plan: with the help of two Bree-
landers he decided to rob his own home in the Shire, 
succeeding in entering his father’s Hobbit-hole and 
stealing the family jewels and precious heirlooms. Longo 
and his two partners fled south, but upon reaching Sarn 
Ford, the Hobbit experienced a moment of clarity and 
stood frozen in his tracks: he told the two Breemen that 
he had changed his mind, and ordered them to drop the 
loot and let him return it. As an answer, the two stabbed 
him. Longo managed to escape, albeit wounded, and fled 
north into the Barrow-downs.
Longo recalls only snippets of the nights he spent in 
the Barrow-downs, bleeding from a wounded leg. He 
remembers a cold voice, and a colder shadow that fell 
upon him when he entered a barrow to find shelter from 
the rain. When he finally stumbled upon the Road to the 
North the morning after, he was clutching a black dagger 
sheath, without recollections of how or where he found it. 
In time, Longo discovered some of the properties of his 
‘treasure’. He found that he enjoyed a greater confidence 
in his own capabilities while wearing the scabbard, and 
that he could easily influence people, even have them 
follow and obey him. Unfortunately, he also started to 
develop an overpowering need to use his newfound power 
to use others to pursue his own means, and, eventually, to 
prey upon them.
With a clever mind and the Shadow-tainted scabbard at 
his side, Longo travelled East, across the Misty Mountains 
and into Wilderland. There, he gathered around him 
brigands, robbers and cutthroats of all sorts, Men that 
could be easily swayed by his ambitions and superior

--- PAGE 15 ---
Erebor Adventures
14
charisma. Under his lead, the bandits have made quite a 
name for themselves, and eventually came to the attention 
of the Sorcerer of Forod, who was quick to recognise the 
potential usefulness of Longo and his men. 
Recently, the Nazgûl has sent Longo information that has 
put him on the tracks of the Silver Needle. The Hobbit has 
been promised a rich reward for it, something that has 
made the Bandit-lord very suspicious... so suspicious that 
he intends to see the artefact and inspect it for its real 
worth before he hands it to someone else.
Taking the Bait, or Not?
If the companions hesitate to go and seek out Longo and his 
men, a guard may hear of their involvement with the scuffle 
at the gate and ask for their help. Otherwise, a local patron 
may ask if they can look into the issue, as Longo’s deeds are 
starting to affect many amongst the people of Dale. If one of 
the Company is of high enough standing to be seated at the 
king’s table, they may find Bard’s young son Bain concerned 
by tales of this Longo and the menace he presents to travellers. 
Should the Company finally take an interest in Longo, 
they soon hear many people in Dale talk of attacks on 
the less travelled paths to the south of the city, east of the 
River Running. Some merchants use these paths in place 
of taking the Merchants Way or boating down the river 
to avoid passing through Esgaroth or to return to their 
homes in the Upper Marches by a more direct way. 
There is speculation by some that the bandits have a large 
camp somewhere there and travel in smaller groups to 
make their raids.
Longo’s Plan
Now that his first attempt at stealing the Silver Needle was 
interrupted, Longo needs to prepare a new plan and he 
won’t suffer anyone to interfere with it, in particular the 
companions: his hinting for them to seek out the bandits 
aims to lead the group into an ambush far from Dale and 
be rid of them. 
The rest of this adventure is presented considering that the 
companions leave Dale in search of Longo. If the heroes 
do not take any of the baits that the bandit leader has 
left for them, then the Loremaster should skip Part Two 
entirely and adapt slightly the text for Part Three: Thieves 
in Dale, and beyond.
The Black Scabbard
Wrought of black steel, light and strong, and set with 
many fiery stones, this dagger sheath rested long in the 
shadow under a mound in Tyrn Gorthad. The weaponsmith 
who crafted it originally bestowed a blessing of Persuasion 
upon it, to make the orders of a Captain of War resound 
with superior authority. But the darkness of the barrow 
has twisted the power wound about it, and when Longo 
stole it from the mound, a curse fell upon the Hobbit, 
marking his life forever. 
The Blessing
When Longo wears the black scabbard and displays 
it openly (he keeps his long knife in it) his Charisma is 
exalted much beyond his stature, and no one can escape 
the power of his words. The men of his band of brigands 
almost worship him, and would never think of deserting or 
betraying him. 
If the companions have no reason to doubt ‘Clovis’, the 
power of the scabbard manifests by making him appear 
completely trustworthy – for example, any Insight check 
yields no alarming clues. Should a player explicitly say 
they don’t trust the Hobbit, then only a DC 20 Wisdom 
(Insight) check can reveal that some external power is at 
work, giving strength to the Hobbit’s presence.
The Curse
The Curse of Weakness marring the Black Scabbard has 
provoked Longo to become Murderous (see Rivendell 
Region Guide, page 102), setting the Hobbit on a 
downward path into Shadow. When the Sorcerer of Forod 
arrived in the Dalelands, it was easy for Radbal and 
Maugor, the Orcs of Dol Guldur (see pages 17 and 23 to 
enlist Longo among the informants of the Nazgûl.

--- PAGE 16 ---
PART TWO SEARCHING THE ROADS
15
The Silver Needle
– Part Two – 
Searching the Roads
The Company sets off searching for the bandit camp 
in the Upper Marches, to the east of the Running River. 
Considering the relatively short distance, there’s no need 
to invoke the full Journey rules. 
But finding the bandits won’t be easy. Even by limiting the 
search to the immediate vicinity of the watercourse there 
is much ground to cover and the rains of the last few days 
have made the paths muddy and unpleasant.
•	
All heroes acting as Scouts or Hunters are allowed two 
DC 15 checks each day, using either Investigation or 
Survival. With four successes, the companions have 
found a well-trod path across the wilderness, a trail 
likely to lead them to the bandit camp (see The Cold 
Bog, below).
The Company meet few travellers as they search for 
Longo. When they do, the encounters are rarely pleasant: 
the travellers seem to have chosen these paths exactly 
to avoid meeting others and do not show much interest 
in talking to strangers. Appropriate ability checks and 
gestures of kindness, such as sharing food, are required 
to open any traveller up to conversation. 
•	
When this happens, the companions hear again news 
of Longo and his men: A successful DC 15 Charisma 
(Persuasion) or Intelligence (Traditions) check 
counts as one of the four required successes to find 
the right path. From there, they will enter The Cold 
Bog, below.
On the Right Path 
Once set upon the right path, the companions’ search 
takes an easterly course, crossing into the western edges 
of the Upper Marches. Here, they make their way across 
the open countryside for several miles, until the trail starts 
leading them south, into a desolate, miry heath, whose 
eastern side is walled by a rampart of crags. No one lives 
around here, it seems.
For a while, the tracks lead the companions along a 
gurgling stream, until its course becomes lost into a wet 
bog. Now, dry reeds rise among wide fens and mires, and 
6

--- PAGE 17 ---
Erebor Adventures
16
a thick mist lays in heavy banks, unmoving in the windless 
hours that precede the setting of the sun.
Check the entry corresponding to the number of successes 
produced while exploring:
•	
0-2: The companions haven’t found anything 
that might tip them off about the ambush and are 
completely unaware of the coming assault (DC 20).
•	
3-4: The heroes are following a trail of tracks (probably 
those left by the lieutenants of Longo) but have no 
reason to think they are expected (DC 18).
•	
5-6: The companions have found some proof of the 
presence of Orcs in the bog, and are thus moderately 
alert (DC 16).
•	
7+: The companions have found clear Orc tracks, and 
thus are alert and ready (DC 14).
The Orcs of Dol Guldur
The Orcs from Dol Guldur are not a group of cravenly 
minions, only ready to do what is commanded of them 
when whipped. Radbal and his lads have fought together 
for many long years, and have fought several times against 
both Elves and Men. They are all hardened veterans, and 
their captain has felled many a champion with his heavy 
scimitar.
When they spring their trap, all the Orcs send their spears 
flying in a single volley. They target each companion at 
least once, but since there are more Orcs than heroes, they 
target any Elf or Dwarf multiple times.
The Cold Bog
The companions have entered a desolate bog, part of 
the Long Marshes, the main expanse of which lays to the 
south-west of them. This remote corner of the Dalelands is 
not the secret refuge of Longo and his men, but it is where a 
band of Orcs of Dol Guldur have found sanctuary instead. 
Longo of course knows about the Orcs. Their chieftain, 
Radbal, is his liaison with the Sorcerer of Forod — the 
Hobbit has sent the companions right into a well-prepared 
ambush.
Finding the Camp
Marching across the marshy terrain of the bog makes 
for some slow and uncomfortable exploring. Again, all 
heroes acting as Scouts or Hunters can make their two 
daily checks, using Investigation or Survival, but the 
difficulty becomes DC 17. 
The companions find the encampment of the Orcs after 
two days of searching, in an area where the reeds are thick 
and the fog lays heavy and cold. It is a narrow stretch of 
dry land, shielded from view by tall reeds, covered with 
sparse shrubs and a handful of mossy, skeletal trees. The 
Orcs are waiting for the heroes to show up. 
•	
How prepared the companions will be to confront the 
Orc’s ambush depends on how many successes they 
will have achieved so far in exploring the bog.
Ambush!
When the companions get near to the Orc’s camp, the 
Loremaster should ask the players to make a Wisdom 
(Perception) check. The difficulty is determined using the 
difficulty listed below; Companions who fail their check 
are Surprised.
6
7

--- PAGE 18 ---
PART THREE THIEVES IN THE DALE
17
The Silver Needle
“Longo, that halfling maggot! He set up us very well 
indeed… he wants the Needle for himself... I hope the 
Sorcerer gets the fool and freezes the flesh off his back!”
If he doesn’t get a chance in the heat of battle, the tough 
old Orc can spit his curses through clenched teeth as he 
dies. Longo’s treachery was of the more practical sort: no 
matter who won the fight, a thorn in his side is gone. The 
‘Sorcerer’ is the first hint to the players there is more here 
than simple banditry.
Return to Dale
Once the Company has dealt with the Orcs they will likely 
return to Dale as fast as they can, to look for Clovis/Longo, 
or, if they figured out what’s going on, to protect Kelda. 
Going straight for Dale in a hurry requires all companions 
to pass a DC 20 Wisdom (Survival) check; heroes failing 
the check gain a level of Exhaustion on the return trip.
– Part Three – 
Thieves in Dale
If the companions left Dale to look for Longo’s camp, as 
they struggle to find their way in the Long Marshes, Longo 
proceeds with his plan to steal the Silver Needle. 
The Craftswoman’s Fate
Kelda lives and works in a house in the Old Quarter of 
Dale. She sleeps in a room on the first floor of the house, 
while the ground floor serves as her workshop, an open 
arched space facing a well-trafficked alley. On any given 
weekday, Kelda can be seen sitting at her bench working 
on her creations, with the exception of each Wednesday, 
when she can be found selling her wares from her stall in 
the Market-square of Dale.
The night after the departure of the companions from Dale, 
Longo and his men arrive at Kelda’s house after midnight. 
They silently force their way into the shuttered workshop, 
and take the Silver Needle. Kelda discovers that the needle 
is missing the following morning. 
The grief provoked by the loss is too much for the old 
artisan, and she falls into a dark melancholic mood.
Longo’s Lieutenants
Longo sent three of his men (Vig, Kasper, and 
Swain, see page 19) to warn Radbal to expect the 
Company. If the Loremaster wants a tougher fight, 
they can join the combat. However, they are expected
back in Dale and will flee as soon as the tide of battle 
turns against the Orcs.
They use secret ways through the marshlands and 
if the companions wish to follow them it requires 9 
successful DC 15 Wisdom (Survival) checks to track 
them back to the gates of Dale.
Muddy Sword-work
When the fight at close quarters begins, the companions 
are still slowly emerging from the clinging mud of the bog, 
while the Orcs are attacking from firmer ground.
The heroes are considered to be at Disadvantage for this 
round of combat. If they remain in the bog, use the rules 
for combat scenery on page 90 of the Loremaster’s Guide.
Radbal’s lads are Orc Guards (Loremaster’s Guide, page 
104), and Radbal is a Great Orc (Loremaster’s Guide, page 
97). There are three Orc Guards for every two companions. 
Additionally, all the Orcs are Battle-hardened – 
they have Advantage on any saving throws against 
intimidation effects, and the troupe is also Skillful and 
Trained – the Orc Guards have Advantage on Perception 
checks (and their passive Perception is now 18) and their 
scimitar attacks. Finally, the Orcs will not suffer from their 
Sunlight Sensitivity ability at any hour of the day, as the 
daylight is obscured by the heavy banks of mist.
The Orcs fight at the best of their abilities, exploiting 
their Aggressive nature with Radbal supporting them 
from behind using his Commanding Voice. If Radbal is 
killed, all the Orc Guards lose the benefit of their scimitar 
training (see above).
After the Battle
Either during the battle or afterwards, the Company will 
learn the true identity of Longo. Before he dies, Radbal 
curses the Hobbit:

--- PAGE 19 ---
Erebor Adventures
18
The Companions Return
Tricked by the Hobbit’s cunning to leave town, the heroes 
make their way back to Dale. 
The companions have two main choices in front of them: 
do they go and look for Kelda, as they have realised she 
is in danger, or do they search for Longo and his hideout?
Looking For Kelda
If the companions look for Kelda, they can simply ask 
about her in town, as many know her as one of the best 
embroiderers in Dale. Word of the theft spreads rapidly.
When they arrive at her shop in the Old Quarter, they find 
it closed, its heavy wooden shutters showing clear signs 
of intrusion. Kelda is actually inside, as the companions 
may discover if they attempt to enter, or if they wait long 
enough to hear her moving inside.
When Kelda sees the companions, she recognises them 
from the episode at the gate of Dale. In tears, the artisan 
tells her sad story, eventually asking the heroes to leave 
her alone in her sorrow. She considers her precious needle 
to be lost, and would rather try to forget it completely than 
nurture false hopes. 
If pressed, Kelda may recount what she knows about 
the needle (not much, see The Silver Needle). A DC 15 
Intelligence (Lore or Riddle) check can at least determine 
from her description that the item must be magical in origin.
7
The Silver Needle
The story of the Silver Needle is a very long one, and it is 
mostly lost. It was made by the Elves long, long ago, but 
eventually ended up in the treasuries of Erebor, before the 
coming of Smaug. When the Dragon claimed the Lonely 
Mountain as his own, the Silver Needle was saved from ruin 
by a couple of Dwarven clothiers, who were later forced to 
sell it to some drapers from Lake-town.
In time, the needle changed many hands, in the end becoming 
a token of love, given by an adoring suitor to a young Kelda. 
The craftswoman doesn’t know the story of the needle, nor 
does she suspect its worth – all she knows is that she feels 
as if she was still a young embroiderer when she uses it, 
as her hand never trembles, and that she is always able to 
accomplish exactly what she endeavours to create. 
When used to sew a garment, or to stitch an embroidery or 
tapestry, the Silver Needle works into the fabric of the piece 
the subtle magic of its Elven creators: the cloth retains some 
of the user’s thoughts when it was being sewn, and makes 
them appear before the eyes of those that look at it, all the 
while giving to the sewn object a life-like quality: a dress 
seems to wave and ripple as if moved by a faint breeze, a 
tapestry evokes the sounds and smells of the image it shows, 
the embroidery on a cloak seems to shimmer and dance in the 
corner of one’s eye.

--- PAGE 20 ---
19
The Silver Needle
Vig, the Spy
Longo’s bandits are keeping an eye on Kelda, as Longo 
wants to be warned in advance if the companions, or 
anyone else for that matter, goes to the embroiderer asking 
questions. 
If the heroes are keeping a look-out, on a successful DC 
13 Wisdom (Perception) check they spot a man of 
dubious intentions whose face they might find familiar: it 
is Vig, one of Longo’s henchmen. If the companions try to 
approach the spy, he runs, attempting to disappear into 
the crowd.
Should the companions attempt to seize Vig, the chase 
is resolved as a prolonged action, requiring 5 successful 
DC 17 Athletics checks (Vig is fast, and the streets are 
crowded); the first to achieve the five successes is the one 
to catch Vig. A check that succeeds by 5 or more counts 
as two successes towards the total. If Vig is taken over, he 
doesn’t try to resist and is easily captured. 
•	
If a companion fails a check, Vig gains ground on the 
failing companion, and they must spend their next 
success catching up (it does not count for the total). If 
a companion fails twice, the hero has lost sight of the 
spy and is out of the chase.
•	
If a hero fails with a natural 1, the companion suffers 
an accident (they run into a passing wheelbarrow and 
stumble, they take a wrong turn and hit a wall, etc.) 
and is out of the chase.
If the companions capture Vig, he is found to be a stray 
Man from the Dalelands, made grim in both countenance 
and spirit by many years spent in the Wild. Unfortunately 
for the heroes, he is firmly under the influence of Longo’s 
superior charisma, and will refuse to reveal anything 
about what he was doing or who sent him. 
A companion succeeding at a DC 15 Wisdom (Insight) 
check gets the impression that Vig has an unnatural fear of 
something, or someone. Using this information, the hero 
may attempt to counter the effects of the ‘spell’ controlling 
him, by making a DC 20 Charisma (Intimidation) check. 
If the companions snap Vig out of Longo’s domination, 
he breaks down under the sudden realisation of all the 
wicked things he has done following the Hobbit’s orders, 
and will give away the name and identity of his master: 
Longo the Hobbit hides in a building in Brokenstone, 
protected by his band of cutthroats.
Kasper and Swain
If at least some of the companions are busy running after 
Vig, Kasper and Swain try to make sure their master will 
have no further trouble from the embroiderer. Profiting 
from the commotion that a bunch of running adventurers 
is making in the streets of the Old Quarter, the two minions 
of Longo set fire to Kelda’s apartment, throwing a lantern 
through a first-floor window. 
The fuel from the lantern spreads rapidly, as Kelda keeps 
a store of her materials upstairs. When the smoke is seen 
from the street it’s too late to save the shop. After a few 
minutes, the wooden planks of the first floor start to fall 
blazing onto the ground floor. 
If the companions were all busy catching the spy, they 
will discover the fire only when it’s too late. Otherwise, 
Vig the Spy
Medium Human
STR 
11 (+0)
DEX 
17 (+3)
CON 
15 (+2)
INT 
10 (+0)
WIS 
9 (-1)
CHA 
12 (+1)
Armour Class 18 (Deadly Elusiveness, shield, see below)
Hit Points 45 (7d8 + 14)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Deception +3, Sleight of Hand +5, Stealth +5
Senses passive Perception 9
Languages Westron
Challenge 2 (450 XP)
Deadly Elusiveness. If Vig does not wear any armour, 
his Armour Class is 16.
Sneaking (Recharge 6). Vig can use his bonus action to 
inflict an extra 7 (2d6) damage to a target he hits with a 
weapon attack if his target is within 5 feet of Vig’s ally.
Actions
Multiattack. Vig makes two attacks with his short sword.
Short Sword. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) piercing damage.
Spear. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +2 to hit, reach 
5 ft or range 20/60 ft, one target. Hit: 3 (1d6) piercing 
damage or 4 (1d8) piercing damage if used with two 
hands to make a melee attack.

--- PAGE 21 ---
Erebor Adventures
20
they may at least rescue Kelda – the old embroiderer is 
desperately trying to save her life’s work, exposing herself 
to the flames. 
Running in and out of the burning building exposes a hero 
to the fire for at least 3 rounds, causing 1d4+4 points of 
fire damage each round, and the hero must make a DC 
15 Constitution saving throw or gain a level Exhaustion 
from the smoke. A hero that makes a successful DC 15 
Wisdom (Perception) check finds Kelda and a successful 
DC 10 Strength (Athletics) check allows a companion 
to carry her out of the building the next round. If the old 
embroiderer is saved, she collapses in the arms of the 
adventurer that rescued her: with her precious needle lost 
and her shop destroyed, she is utterly broken.
Searching For Longo 
The companions may have discovered where Longo is 
hiding from the confession of his henchman Vig, but if the 
brigand wasn’t captured, the companions have another 
way to get that vital information, as a Hobbit is not yet a 
familiar sight in Dale.
Kasper the Bandit
Medium Human
STR 
17 (+3)
DEX 
11 (+0)
CON 
15 (+2)
INT 
10 (+0)
WIS 
11 (+0)
CHA 
12 (+1)
Armour Class 16 (Ring-mail, shield)
Hit Points 39 (6d8+12)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Intimidation +3, Perception +2
Senses passive Perception 12
Languages Westron
Challenge 1 (200 XP)
Actions
Multiattack. Kasper makes two attacks with his axe.
Axe. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 7 (1d8+3) slashing damage.
Spear. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 
5 ft or range 20/60 ft, one target. Hit: 6 (1d6+3) piercing 
damage or 7 (1d8+3) piercing damage if used with two 
hands to make a melee attack.
Battle Cry (1/day). Kasper may use his action to 
activate this ability. Each ally within 30 feet of him gains 
advantage on attack rolls until the start of Kasper’s next 
turn. He may then make one attack as a bonus action.
Swain the Enforcer
Medium Human
STR 
18 (+4)
DEX 
12 (+1)
CON 
13 (+1)
INT 
10 (+0)
WIS 
8 (-1)
CHA 
15 (+2)
Armour Class 16 (Corslet of mail, shield)
Hit Points 38 (7d8+7)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Deception +3, Sleight of Hand +5, Stealth +5
Senses passive Perception 9
Languages Westron
Challenge 2 (450 XP)
Actions
Multiattack. Swain makes two attacks with his short 
sword.
Short Sword. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 7 (1d6+4) piercing damage.
Spear. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 
5 ft or range 20/60 ft, one target. Hit: 7 (1d6+4) piercing 
damage or 8 (1d8+4) piercing damage if used with two 
hands to make a melee attack
Reactions
Great Might (Recharge 5-6). Swain reduces the damage 
of one weapon attack that hits him by 4, to a minimum 1 
point of damage
The best way to conduct such an investigation is 
probably at the Market Square and its surroundings. 
The people sell their wares here, their customers coming 
from all across town. The square is also the best place 
to gossip. 
•	
Finding information about Longo in the Market Square 
requires a total of 8 successes. The investigation is best 
suited to skills like Insight, Persuasion, Riddle and 
Traditions. Each companion is allowed two checks per 
day.
•	
The difficulty of all checks is DC 17, as Longo has 
proven extremely proficient in spreading false clues 
about himself all over Dale, and the powers of his 
scabbard have made his lies all the more believable. A 
check that succeeds by 5 or more counts as 2 successes 
toward the total.
Reduce the number of checks required for each of 
the following elements contributing to the heroes’ 
reputation:

--- PAGE 22 ---
PART FOUR THE BANDITS’ LAIR
21
The Silver Needle
•	
The heroes saved Kelda from the fire (-1).
•	
The Company captured Vig, but cannot break Longo’s 
control over him (-1).
•	
At least one companion has a Dalish title or a holding 
in Dale (-1).
When the heroes achieve the total number of successes, 
they figure out the general whereabouts of the bandits’ lair: 
a building in Brokenstone, in the Old Quarter of Dale.
Playing the Investigation
Achieving 8 successes will probably take a few days 
of investigation. The Loremaster can use the following 
paragraphs to colour the interaction of the players with 
the townsfolk. 
•	
Lissa is the youngest daughter of a smith. She has seen 
Clovis and talked with him until the Hobbit became 
annoyed with her many questions. He still gave her a 
piece of sweet bread and asked her about Kelda. 
•	
An unusually talkative Dwarf named Donar is 
convinced that the Hobbit has some clandestine 
dealings in the Old Quarter. 
•	
Gudrun washes clothes all day and gossips with 
(and about) everyone. She loves talking and saw the 
Hobbit many times. Once, she overheard the Hobbit 
say something about “the barracks”. 
•	
Olyia is a member of Katun’s group of merchants. She 
has been looking for a place to use as a warehouse 
in the Old Quarter when she was chased away from 
a building by some men after she thought she heard 
some wild beast’s grunting!
Tipping off Longo
If Vig hasn’t been captured by the companions and the 
embroiderer’s shop has been burned down, Longo is 
probably feeling rather safe from the companions. This 
doesn’t mean he is not paying attention: 
•	
If the companions roll a natural 1 while looking for 
information about Longo, they alert some of the spies 
the Hobbit has planted all over town. 
If this happens, the Hobbit will be ready for them when they 
come to get him in his lair in the Old Quarter (see page 25).
– Part Four – 
The Bandits’ Lair
When the companions find themselves armed with precise 
information about where Longo is hiding, it is time to take 
action and try to put an end to Longo’s misdeeds. 
Will the heroes attempt to denounce Longo to King Bard, 
or will they intervene personally, going to Longo’s Lair?
Denouncing Longo to King Bard
The most natural course of action is probably going to the 
authorities. Dale is a civilised town, not a forsaken village 
lost in the Wilderland. How better to deal with a band of 
brigands hiding in the middle of a populated area than 
calling for the City Guard to intervene?
If the companions go to the Royal Palace of Dale to 
meet the king they do not find him. They are received 
by one of his advisors instead, as King Bard leaves all 
matters concerning public order in the hands of other 
courtiers.
Enter Lord Hakon
The advisor meeting the heroes is Hakon, a sombre 
nobleman that seems to have more pressing matters than 
listening to adventurers requesting his help to solve some 
trouble with brigands. He listens impatiently to what the 
companions have to say, all the while writing something 
on a piece of parchment. The companions finally receive 
his attention when they mention Longo and his presence 
in town.
King Bard in 2957
Following the events narrated in The Darkening of 
Mirkwood, King Bard suffered the tragic loss of 
his Queen in the year 2956. Accordingly, in the 
years following, King Bard is often absent in body 
or spirit as he grieves. He leaves everyday decisions 
to his counsellors. If you are not considering those 
events as canon, then simply have Bard away on a 
diplomatic mission to the Elves, or out hunting in the 
Dalelands.
7

--- PAGE 23 ---
Erebor Adventures
22
Unfortunately for the companions, Lord Hakon is a 
plotting conspirator, furthering many personal concerns 
at the expense of the common good (see page 6, and his 
description in the Lonely Mountain Region Guide, page 
61). He is well aware of the activities of Longo, and it is 
against his best interests to see the Hobbit behind bars. 
Perhaps something in Lord Hakon’s behaviour will tip the 
players off, or at least make them doubt his competence. For 
example, they might notice that Hakon doesn’t immediately 
call for the guards to intervene, but simply promises to do 
so ‘at the earliest convenience’. Should they keep watch 
over the Royal Palace after the meeting with Hakon, the 
heroes will see that no courier is dispatched to bring any 
message to the City Guard headquarters. If the heroes 
smell something fishy, they will still be in time to anticipate 
the actions of the City Guard, especially because Hakon is 
delaying their intervention on purpose. If the circumstances 
allow it, the Loremaster could let the companions arrive 
just as Longo is finally preparing to leave his hideout.
Longo’s Lair 
The portion of Dale nearest the river, to the east is known 
as the Old Quarter. It was built over the ruins of the old 
Dale, and the majority of its buildings have been erected 
using stonework from the palaces and houses that Smaug 
reduced to rubble. The result is a mixture of old and new. 
The southernmost part of the Old Quarter is a maze of 
twisting alleys and close-spaced buildings. Here the air is 
less wholesome, and it is hard not to get lost, even for a 
citizen of Dale. It is no coincidence that the majority of the 
town businesses of the least savoury type are found here: 
this area is what is known to some as the ‘Brokenstone’, 
the black market of Dale.
The Shadows of Brokenstone
To get to Longo’s lair the companions must enter the 
Brokenstone. The place they are looking for is an 
abandoned barracks building, somewhere in the proximity 
of the canal on the southern border of the Old Quarter. 
The inhabitants of the Brokenstone are a suspicious lot 
and are generally wary of any “outsider” trespassing, 
but even the most daring among them would never try 
something against a group of fully-armed adventurers. 
But if the heroes simply march through the alleys without 
concealing their intentions in any way, they will be noticed 
by some of Longo’s men, on the look-out for any intruder. 
Whether or not Hakon was consulted by the Company, the 
Hobbit is warned of the coming of the adventurers within 
minutes (any hero with a passive Perception of 15 or 
higher will notice several individuals that seem to be 
keeping an eye on them).
So, when the name of Longo is mentioned, Hakon pretends 
to be snapped out of his impatience, feigning surprise and 
horror at the description of Longo’s misdeeds, and by the 
end of the meeting he promises to send in the guards as 
soon as possible. In truth, he will first warn Longo of the 
imminent incursion, allowing the Hobbit to escape. The 
dastardly Bandit-lord will leave a half dozen of his men 
behind, to lend credibility to Hakon’s action.
Playing Hakon
To avoid giving Hakon’s double-dealing away to the 
players, the Loremaster should set up an Audience with 
him using the usual rules, pretending to take the heroes’ 
words into account. In truth, nothing will affect the result. 
Hakon gives the appearance of taking the Company’s 
concerns seriously and is a Barding nobleman in his 
late forties, with long hair, dressing in the finest silks. 
(Lord Hakon will return in Of Hammers and Anvils, To 
Dungeons Deep and Shadows in the North.)
Is the Adventure Over?
If the companions let Hakon take the matter in his own 
hands, the adventure is basically over: Longo will leave 
Dale with his life and the Silver Needle. 
7

--- PAGE 24 ---
23
The Silver Needle 
Searching
If the companions enter the Old Quarter with a fairly 
precise idea of where Longo is hiding (they captured 
Vig and convinced him to talk, or they gathered enough 
information in the Market Square), it doesn’t take much 
time for them to locate the old guard barracks. 
If, on the contrary, they haven’t yet pinpointed the 
whereabouts of Longo’s lair, they can still find the villain 
by succeeding at a DC 15 Intelligence (Investigation) 
check and a DC 15 Intelligence (Riddle) check to find 
their way to his hideout.
The Barracks 
The bandits’ lair was once a barracks building used by the 
City Guard, in the south-eastern section of Brokenstone, 
a mere few blocks from the Quays. It is a large square 
building, with a central open area originally used by the 
guards to train. It appears abandoned, and the entry 
gate is boarded up. Longo and his men go in and out of 
the barracks using an underground passage that leads 
to an opening along the quays of a canal running south 
of the building.
There are 12 Bandits (or 3 for each hero) along with Longo. 
To enter the building the companions have two options: 
breaking in from the entry gates, or sneak along the 
underground tunnel from the canal.
Orcs in Dale!
Maugor is a Great Orc from Dol Guldur like 
Radbal. In the last few weeks, Maugor has acted 
as a liaison between Longo and Radbal, all the 
while keeping an eye on the Hobbit. He entered 
the town by the river, and then hid in the barracks. 
The Orc doesn’t know that Longo manoeuvred the 
companions to kill off Radbal and keep the Silver 
Needle for himself, and is a loyal ally to the Hobbit 
(thanks to the influence of Longo’s cursed scabbard). 
When the companions show up, Maugor bides his 
time and hides, until he finds the right moment to 
attack the companions – possibly, attacking one 
of them by surprise when Longo tries to subdue 
them thanks to his cursed scabbard (see The Final 
Confrontation below).
Smashing Down the Doors
If they want to enter the barracks without any further 
ado, the companions have no other choice than smash 
the boarded-up double doors leading to the training area. 
Alerted by the noise, the bandits inside will rapidly gather 
to confront them, to buy some time for Longo to make his 
escape.

--- PAGE 25 ---
Erebor Adventures
24
•	
The Bandits will first unleash a volley of arrows, and 
then charge across the training grounds. If they are 
not defeated within three rounds of combat, Longo 
will escape from the window of the Officers Chamber.
1: The Tunnel
With enough information, or with a thorough scouting 
of the area, the companions may have located the canal 
entry instead. The round passage is reached by walking 
along the canal quay, and is barred by a locked iron 
grate. If the grate is opened by picking the lock (a DC 15 
Dexterity (Thieves’ Tools) check), the companions may 
quietly crawl into the tunnel to emerge in the storeroom. 
•	
If they emerge from the storeroom, the Bandits are 
taken by surprise. First, three of them show up (with 
perhaps Swain or Kasper among them), and the rest 
arrive only after three rounds of combat. If the first 
three Bandits are defeated before the others join them, 
the companions have a chance to get to the Officers 
Chamber before Longo leaves.
2: Sleeping Quarters A large, empty room that used to 
house the benches where the soldiers slept. The bandits 
sleep here, on the floor. A long table is set here for the 
brigands to eat. 
3: Storeroom A storage room filled with rotten and 
cracked wooden barrels and a tipped-over shelf of wine 
jugs. The narrow walking space between the two rows of 
barrels is covered in debris and wood splinters. A wooden 
trapdoor opens behind a row of barrels leading to the exit 
tunnel. 
4: The Gaol A small chamber, accessed by a single 
doorway, barred by a heavy wooden gate. Maugor sleeps 
here.
5: The Officers Chamber This is Longo’s private 
quarters. The chamber is protected by a reinforced door, 
and has a window facing out. The window is boarded from 
the outside, but Longo has loosened the boards to make 
sure he can easily break through them, in case he needs to 
make a quick exit from the building. The Hobbit keeps his 
belongings here, including the Silver Needle.
6: The Training Area The wide, open area in the middle 
of the building has a dirt floor, and two rows of sturdy 
Longo’s Trusted Bandits
Medium Human
STR 
10 (+0)
DEX 
15 (+2)
CON 
11 (+0)
INT 
10 (+0)
WIS 
11 (+0)
CHA 
8 (-1)
Armour Class 14 (Leather Corslet)
Hit Points 18 (4d8)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Perception +2
Senses passive Perception 12
Languages Westron
Challenge 1/4 (50 XP)
No Quarter. When the Bandit reduces an enemy to 0 hit 
points that enemy is considered to already have failed 
one death save. 
Thrall (Longo). Under the influence of the scabbard, the 
bandits will do anything for Longo. If Longo is within the 
Bandit’s movement speed, the Bandit can use its reaction 
to become the target of an attack that would have hit 
Longo. If Longo is slain, the Bandit flees the battlefield.
Actions
Short Sword. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 5 (1d6+2) piercing damage.
Short Bow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, range 
80/320 ft, one target. Hit: 5 (1d6+2) piercing damage.
poles planted in the ground for sparring exercises, and a 
number of archery targets against the eastern wall.

--- PAGE 26 ---
25
The Silver Needle
Longo
Small Hobbit
STR 
10 (+0)
DEX 
16 (+3)
CON 
12 (+1)
INT 
14 (+2)
WIS 
17 (+3)
CHA 
18 (+4)
Armour Class 15 (Leather Corslet)
Hit Points 44 (8d8+8)
Speed 25 ft
Skills Perception +5, Persuasion +6, Sleight of Hand +7, 
Stealth +7
Senses passive Perception 15
Languages Westron
Challenge 3 (700 XP)
Expert. Longo doubles his Proficiency Bonus for his 
Sleight of Hand and Stealth (included above).
Inoffensive. While Longo has the scabbard he seems to 
not be a threat to anyone. Any creature that attacks him 
has Disadvantage on their attack rolls. 
Mesmerise. Longo may use his action to brandish the 
scabbard at one target creature, who must make a DC 
15 Wisdom saving throw. 
On a failed save, the target becomes Charmed until 
Longo leaves the area or attacks the Charmed creature. 
Spell of the Scabbard (1/day). Longo can focus on 
the Black Scabbard and attempt to curse any number 
of creatures within 120 feet of him. Each creature must 
make a DC 15 Charisma saving throw. On a success, 
the creature gains a point of Shadow but is free to act. 
On a failure, the creature gains a point of Shadow and is 
Incapacitated. At the end of its turn, the creature makes 
another DC 15 Charisma saving throw, ending the 
effect on a success.
Actions
Multiattack. Longo makes two attacks with either his 
short sword or short bow.
Short Sword. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) piercing damage.
Short Bow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, range 
80/320 ft, one target. Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) piercing damage
Reactions
Uncanny Dodge. If Longo is hit by an attack and can 
see the attacker, he may halve that attack’s damage.
The Final Confrontation 
If Longo’s men are dealt with swiftly enough, the 
companions can face the bandit leader himself. His back 
to the wall, Longo tries to play his best hand yet. 
When the companions approach the door of the Officers 
Chamber, Longo opens it, presenting himself to the 
armed companions with a kind and serene look on his 
face:
“Well?” says the Hobbit, “Why have you come to me with 
such an aggressive disposition. If you tell me what it 
is that you want from me, I am sure we can come to an 
agreement.” 
His voice is clear and musical, his tone benevolent. Longo 
is of course wearing the Black Scabbard, and his left hand 
is laid casually on his waist, to reveal it to everyone who 
is looking at him. 
While appearing relaxed, the Hobbit is bending his will 
with all his force to swaying the companions’ intentions 
and force them to come to a peaceful agreement. (He is 
attempting his Spell of the Scabbard, see below).
8

--- PAGE 27 ---
EPILOGUE
Erebor Adventures
26
– Epilogue –
If Longo is defeated and captured alive, the Company may 
bring the Hobbit before an official of Dale for judgement. 
Deprived of the Black Scabbard (it will have been taken 
from him, together with every weapon and his belongings) 
Longo soon breaks and confesses his many crimes, 
pleading guilty and appealing to the mercy of the court. 
But the Hobbit has committed too many misdeeds to be 
pardoned, and will likely be imprisoned for the rest of his 
days. If Longo was killed and evidence that he was behind 
the attacks is presented, the city official has a hard time 
believing a Hobbit was Longo the Bandit-lord, but anyone
with a high standing in Dale can make a DC 15 Charisma 
(Persuasion) check to convince the official of the truth.
Katun will personally thank the companions and provide 
each of them gifts equal to 5g if they were friendly to her. 
If a patron set them on their path, the patron instead 
provides the reward and thanks the companions for 
making the roads safe for travellers and ending the cruel 
time of Longo the Bandit-lord.
Kelda, if alive, is grateful to the Company and bids them take 
the Silver Needle: she senses that her time with the artefact 
has passed and all she wants now is quiet rest. But the 
wondrous artefact won’t remain in their hands for long…
Just before the companions decide on the fate of the Silver 
Needle, an envoy of the Elvenking arrives (or he comes 
himself). The Silver Needle once belonged to Celebrían, 
daughter of Celeborn and Galadriel, and wife to Elrond. 
Celebrían used it almost three thousand years ago to 
embroider the woven cloth she gave to Elrond on their 
wedding day, now hung above the high table of the Great 
Hall of Rivendell (see Rivendell Region Guide, page 9). 
The messenger will make it clear that the Elves would like to 
have the Silver Needle back, for Arwen Evenstar, daughter 
of Elrond, in particular desires to have an heirloom of her 
mother. (Perhaps, years later, Arwen will use it to sew and 
embroider the banner that Aragorn will unfurl upon the 
fields of Pelennor). 
What About the Black Scabbard?
The artefact itself can be destroyed by physical blows; 
however this does not end the curse. The sheath or handle 
of the weapon used to destroy the artefact darkens, 
eventually turning black and gaining the powers of the 
Black Scabbard, affecting its wielder in the same way as it 
once worked on Longo. 
To truly destroy the dark essence within, the item must 
be melted down in a fire that burns very hot indeed. The 
Dwarves of the Iron Hills have an ancient smelter that 
might do the job. Dragon-fire would certainly work.

--- PAGE 28 ---
OF HAMMERS AND ANVILS
ADVENTURING PHASE
27
Of Hammers and Anvils
-OF HAMMERS-
 AND ANVILS
For heroes of level 7 or 8
•	
When: The adventure is set in the summer or autumn 
of the year 2958.
•	
Where: The majority of the adventure is set in Dale, 
before briefly moving into the Northern Dalelands 
and finally ending in Erebor.
•	
What: The Company assist the famed Dwarf Balin 
in investigating a number of troubling events and 
rumours disturbing the peace of Erebor and Dale. 
•	
Why: A once-famous Dwarven craftsman fallen from 
grace will stop at nothing to reclaim his “stolen” glory. 
To restore the prestige he craves, even the death of 
many Dwarves and serious harm to Erebor would be 
acceptable. 
•	
Who: Balin, son of Fundin, famed companion of 
Thorin Oakenshield on the Quest of Erebor is the 
Company’s patron for the adventure. Niping of the 
Iron Hills conspires against the Kingdom under the 
Mountain, with the help of Gunvar, a Barding petty-
lord.
•	
Themes: The Sorcerer uses internal conflicts amidst 
the Dwarves to begin sowing dissent in both kingdoms.
Adventuring Phase
This adventure is divided into six parts.
Part One – Like the Falling of Small 
Stones
Balin is rescued by the companions on the road to Dale. A 
group of men attacked him and his guards, and then left 
aboard a strange-looking boat along the river.
Part Two – A Grim Toy-market
While in Dale, the Company learns that Balin has 
apparently been murdered in a second, successful attempt 
on his life. More troubling rumours and events taint the 
festive atmosphere of the Toy-market.
Part Three – Uphill and Down Dale
The alive-but-in-hiding Balin engages the Company to 
make inquiries in Dale about the mysterious events of the 
last few days. The heroes may find the first evidence of a 
conspiracy. 
Part Four – An Interested Lord
The Company’s enquiries bring them to the attention of 
Gunvar, a lord of the Dalelands. He invites them to his 
manor where he attempts to persuade them to join him. 
Either acceptance or refusal lead to complications.
Part Five – In Deep Places
Gunvar’s men slip through the roots of the Mountain 
to sabotage the Dwarven furnaces. The Company must 
follow them into the depths in order to stop them.
Part Six – Treachery & Wisdom
If the conspiracy is neutralised, the companions are 
triumphant. Balin returns to shed light on the dark plots 
woven in the depths of Erebor.
Epilogue
The companions are rewarded for their loyalty to Balin.
The Doom of Niping the Smith
When Dáin, son of Náin, was not yet King under the 
Mountain, but still simply the Lord of the Iron Hills, Niping 
the smith’s art of making mining tools, delving engines, and 
devices was considered unmatched. More than that, his 
work was vital to the life of the Dwarven community, and 
Niping and his apprentices walked as lords among their 
peers. No rock was hard enough for his thrice-tempered 
picks and hammers, they said, no vein too deep. 
With the refounding of the kingdom of Erebor and the 
recovery of the treasure that the Dragon stole, Niping 
saw his fame stripped away from him. Made rich and 
complacent, the Dwarves turned their heads away from 
the mines and furnaces of the Iron Hills, moving to the 
Lonely Mountain to dedicate themselves to trifling 
matters, like toy and jewel-making. The name of the once-
celebrated smith sank into obscurity. 
Year after year, the smith’s resentment has grown, 
especially after making the acquaintance of Lord Hakon, 
a Barding noble who also saw his star sink below the

--- PAGE 29 ---
PART ONE LIKE THE FALLING OF SMALL STONES
Erebor Adventures
28
horizon with the refounding of Dale. For his own reasons, 
the treacherous courtier has fed the embers of Niping’s 
discontent with crooked words and unscrupulous counsel. 
Bitterness has turned to anger, rancour to hatred, and a 
dark plan has started to form in Niping’s mind: If he and 
his art cannot reclaim their rightful position in the eyes 
of Durin’s Folk, no one will. Niping would rather see the 
works of Erebor broken, its furnaces wrecked, than die 
forgotten in his cold mines.
Niping’s Schemes
Today, the Dwarf-smith blames his current misfortune 
on the peace that Bard the Dragonslayer and King Dáin 
Ironfoot forged between the Dwarves and the Bardings. 
Niping is convinced that were the Dwarves still clinging to 
their ancestral lifestyle, they would have never forsaken 
their traditions to embrace their current foolish pursuits. 
To see his art be awarded the recognition it deserves once 
again, Niping has set to mind to weaken and then sever 
the ties of friendship that unite Bard and Dáin. In the 
last few years, Niping has dedicated himself to building 
a loyal following among his fellow Dwarves of the Iron 
Hills, some of which have become his agents. Inside the 
Mountain, Gundri and Sígar of the ‘Stone Guard’ also 
resent the importance of Dale and listen to the agents of 
Niping. 
In Dale, Dwarven merchants owing their allegiance to Niping 
have arranged lucrative trades with petty lords, securing 
the support of a number of greedy Bardings. Thanks to 
Hakon’s intercession, Lord Gunvar of Ashbrook has become 
Niping’s right-hand man, allowing the scheming Dwarf to 
act without fear of being held responsible.
- Part One - 
Like the Falling of Small Stones
The adventure finds the companions travelling to Dale 
along the Merchant’s Way, where it parallels the River 
Running, before it flows into the Long Lake to the south. 
It is late in the day, and they are still a few miles south 
of town, pushing themselves to make the city and its 
lodgings. 
They might be going to Dale on personal affairs, for 
example to check out the rumours that have the markets 
flowing with the most exotic goods of late. In particular, 
stories abound of rare and prestigious wares brought 
from the East by many merchants who arrived last year. 
The Boat 
As they arrive in sight of the river from behind a sheltering 
hill, the companions spy a craft silently moving with the 
favour of the current, partially hidden by a mist rising 
from the river’s surface. The heroes take notice of it as it 
is relatively unusual to see a southbound boat this late 
in the day, as it won’t likely make it to Lake-town before 
sundown. 
The boat is a large skiff, with eight rear-facing oarsmen; If a 
player proposes it, a successful DC 10 Intelligence (Lore) 
check indicates that the boat looks similar to vessels built 
in Lake-town, if it wasn’t for a large pair of eyes painted on 
the lower sides of its prow. A DC 13 Wisdom (Perception) 
check notices also that the boat is manoeuvred using 
an unusually large steerboard (rudder), one that could 
belong to a small longboat. 
Should the companions hail the boatmen, they receive 
no answer. As the boat moves opposite to the Company, 
1

--- PAGE 30 ---
29
Of Hammers and Anvils
page 24 of the Lonely Mountain Region Guide for more on 
Balin). If the heroes have met him before, Balin is overly 
delighted to see the companions once more, shaking his 
head at the wonder of it. 
“You seem destined to be my friends at need, it seems. As 
good in a pinch as a Hobbit I know!”
If the Company has never met him before, due to the 
circumstances Balin is certainly inclined to view them 
favourably anyway. Moreover, any past help that the 
Company has rendered to Durin’s Folk or the people of Dale 
will of a certain be well known to him, as he sits on the King’s 
Council of Erebor and often acts as an emissary for Dáin.
it disappears behind them as quickly as it made its 
appearance. If a companion attempts to follow it, the craft 
soon gains distance, as it moves with the current.
The Raven
Half a mile north from where they saw the passing boat, 
the companions have a strange meeting: a raven perched 
on a tree to the side of the road attracts their attention, 
croaking and flapping its wings. When the companions 
approach the raven, it takes flight, only to land a few yards 
away from the road. Should the companions follow, the 
bird takes flight again, until it lands on a rocky outcrop, 
about fifty yards away.
Reaching the outcrop, the companions arrive at the edge of a 
deep cleft, a narrow ravine filled with dense vegetation. A hero 
succeeding on a DC 13 Wisdom (Perception) check sees the 
body of a Dwarf at the bottom of the ravine, half buried in 
thick and thorny bushes: someone has fallen over the edge.
Climbing down the steep slope requires a DC 13 Strength 
(Athletics) check (the fall is 12 feet high). As they climb 
down, the companions start hearing a moaning sound: 
the Dwarf is alive!
Balin
The heroes help recover the fallen Dwarf alive. He looks 
exhausted, and bleeds from a superficial cut to the side 
of his head. After a few minutes, he appears to regain 
his composure: the rescued Dwarf is none other than 
the famed Balin, son of Fundin, companion of Thorin 
Oakenshield on the great Quest for Erebor. 
“We were heading for Lake-town, me, my squire, and a 
bodyguard. They ambushed us on the road… a dozen 
ruffians. Men, all of them. Storr, the bodyguard, was 
the first to fall, pierced by a spear. My squire charged to 
engage them, urging me to escape.” 
“I fled, but they shot arrows at me. Many darts hit their 
mark, but I have a thicker skin than most Dwarves...” 
Balin opens his tunic to reveal a shiny corslet of close-set 
silver rings. “When I fell over the cliff edge they must have 
thought I was dead.”
It is possible that the companions already know Balin, as 
he is a prominent personality of the kingdom of Erebor (see 
What Happened
Upon returning to the road, the companions can 
reconstruct what happened to Balin. The shaken Dwarf 
retraces his steps, and leads the heroes to the place 
7

--- PAGE 31 ---
PART TWO A GRIM TOY-MARKET
Erebor Adventures
30
where the fight with the ruffians took place. There are no 
bodies left on the ground, and it is easy to assume that the 
assailants must have dragged them away. 
If the companions succeed on a DC 13 Wisdom (Survival) 
check, they find a series of tracks leading away from the 
road in the direction of the river. The tracks end at a shingly 
shore, where deep grooves on the riverside indicate that 
a boat was recently dragged on dry land: The ruffians 
must have been aboard the boat that the companions saw 
sailing past them. 
Words on the Road
The companions must be on their way soon, if they want to 
reach Dale before the setting of the sun. Balin announces 
that he wishes to go with them, forfeiting his trip to 
Esgaroth; he thanks the companions for any assistance 
they will provide him (a spare pony, a place on the saddle 
behind another rider, etc.).
On the way back, Balin doesn’t add much to what he said 
so far. He notes sorrowfully that he will have to pass on 
word of the deaths of his travelling companions, and that 
he will complain with King Bard about the safety of his 
roads. No matter how highly Balin thinks of the Company, 
he won’t give additional details about what he was really 
up to here (see Dark Business, page 32); if asked, he will 
just shake his head muttering, “old Dwarvish business” 
and say no more. 
Instead, Balin asks about the Company’s doings of late, 
how they feel about the current events in Dale, and 
in Wilderland at large. He is keenly interested in the 
companions’ past deeds, asking for accurate descriptions. 
The Loremaster should encourage the players to reinforce 
their narrative with DC 15 ability checks, for example using 
skills like Performance, Persuasion or Traditions. 
•	
This is not just idle curiosity: Balin is assessing the 
Company’s worth, their motives, trustworthiness, and 
competence. The Loremaster should note the number 
of successes the Company produces on any ability 
checks during their talk with Balin, and set them aside 
until the end of the next part of the adventure.
At Traders Gate, the old Dwarf takes his leave and bids 
farewell to the companions. With a wink, he says 
“You might hear disturbing news soon enough. Seek out 
my friend Thrun at the Toy-market once you do.”
- Part Two -
A Grim Toy-market
The next Monday after the arrival of the companions in Dale 
is the first Monday of the month, and, as it is customary in 
town, it will be Toy-market Day. Rumour has it that this one 
will be particularly splendid, as a score of wonderful new 
toys will be presented to the public, and a good number of 
new merchants, including many foreigners bearing rare 
and exciting goods, are supposed to be in attendance. 
Companions in town should not miss the chance to visit the 
market that is called the “Wonder of the North”. 
Dark Tidings
Heroes walking around town on Toy-market Day soon 
realise that something is wrong. Many Dwarf crafters and 
traders encountered along the streets seem troubled. In 
the Market Square in particular, long faces abound. Even 
as they call out their wares, hawkers’ voices lack the usual 
gusto, and the normally exuberant sounds of delighted 
children are somewhat muted. Many armed guards can 
be seen on the corners of the square, and moving through 
the crowd.
Questioning any of the passers-by, the companions 
discover the reason for such doom and gloom: word on the 
streets is that Balin, son of Fundin, emissary and advisor 
to King Dáin, died the night before, a victim of murder! 
This is not a case of confusion about the occasion the 
Company aided Balin. This is a new attack, Balin being 
slain in Dale itself, so soon after surviving the previous 
attempt on his life.
The atmosphere is (unsurprisingly) dour and serious 
about the various Dwarven toymakers’ stalls. Some 
manage a slight smile for their younger customers, but 
most are clearly distraught. Balin’s murder, coupled with 
the news of the previous aggression along the river, is 
evidently putting every Dwarf on edge.
Characters enquiring after Balin’s demise are met with a 
frown by any Dwarf (“I have no wish to darken this bright 
market with such talk!”), but the Dalish workers at the 
7

--- PAGE 32 ---
31
Of Hammers and Anvils
But not everyone seems to agree on the worthiness of 
his work: two older Dwarves, smiths by the rough look 
of them, have started to comment loudly upon the work 
of the toy-maker, belittling its relevance and using harsh 
words. Dwarven companions will instantly recognise 
them by their accent as coming from the Iron Hills, a 
market are less sensible: should the companions ask, they 
discover that word has it that Balin was attacked while 
passing through the Old Quarter late at night. None seem 
to know more than this. 
Seeking Thrun
Before they leave the Market Square, the heroes notice 
that, despite the general gloom, quite a crowd has 
gathered about one stall in particular. Here, people are 
laughing heartily as they examine the wares on display. 
Upon approaching, they see a relatively young and lively 
Dwarf demonstrating the properties of some marvellous 
wooden boxes that open in different ways depending on 
how and where they are tapped, a series of interlinked 
rings that move about one another in a flowing dance, 
and small intricate dragons that writhe about one’s 
fingers. The young Dwarf is named Thrun, and he is a 
toy-maker, of course. His work seems genuinely wondrous 
and deserving the general attention it is getting. 
subtlety caught by other companions only on a successful 
DC 13 Intelligence (Lore) check.
Not content to bully a single toy-maker, one of the Dwarves 
raises his voice, addressing everyone in the Market Square 
able to hear him:
“You all should be ashamed of yourself, wasting your time 
on such trifling matters! Toys and trinkets! Only a few 
years ago you would have been the laughingstock of any 
Dwarf who ever set foot in a forge. Do you think it is of any 
value the praise you are getting from Men? An Orc is better 
at smithing than any Man!” 
The crowd that gathered around the stall of Thrun rapidly 
scatters, as everyone prefers to put some distance between 
themselves and the two disgruntled Dwarves. The toy-maker 
looks at the dispersing crowd, raising his arms in desperation: 
“Look at what you have done now, all my clients gone! A 
plague on miners and their stiff necks!”
Upon hearing the toy-maker’s outburst, the two miners 
move to face him menacingly, with one of them stepping 
so close to Thrun that the beards of the two Dwarves 
touch. Blows are about to be exchanged!
Helping the Toy-maker
Companions wishing to defuse the confrontation can 
try different things, anything from making a DC 15 
Charisma (Intimidation) check to counter the ugly 
words of the two smiths, to using a DC 13 Intelligence 
(Traditions) check to instil some sense of decorum in the 
arguing Dwarves or intoning a distracting song (a DC 15 
Charisma (Performance) check) to lighten the situation. 
If the companions fail their checks or ignore the matter, 
a brief scuffle erupts, ending with Thrun falling and 
knocking over some of the crates he used to set up his 
display; he isn’t injured, only bruised in body and spirit. 
Then, the two miners look about the market crowd in 
defiance and leave. 
If the heroes succeed, the smiths end their outburst 
without resorting to any violence, leaving the heroes with 
a grateful Dwarf that might later be willing to speak more 
openly about what is going on (see page 33). 
7

--- PAGE 33 ---
PART THREE UPHILL AND DOWN DALE
Erebor Adventures
32
If the Loremaster deems that the companions handled 
the situation particularly well, for example by making 
a successful Traditions check, the two Iron Hills smiths 
themselves will calm down and feel the need to elaborate 
a bit about their discontent. From their words, the 
companions might deduce that tension is building among 
the Dwarves, because of ongoing discussions within King 
Dáin’s own Council. The smiths won’t provide more details 
to outsiders, but a Dwarven companion can learn that the 
argument involves smithing techniques no longer being 
honoured in the forges beneath the Lonely Mountain. 
“Today, we already cannot rival the metal-work of our 
fathers. At this pace, the secrets of our masters will be lost 
at the turn of a generation. And all this only for the sake 
of the gold of the Men of Dale? The gold that was ours in 
the first place...”
While most Free Folk would find the whole argument tedious, 
to Dwarven smiths it is a most serious matter indeed.
The Raven, Again
After the commotion provoked by the Dwarven smiths 
subsides, the companions will likely wish to speak to 
Thrun about Balin. He simply points to a raven perched 
on a nearby lamp post, where an alley going east from the 
square leads to the Red Row. When the companions get 
closer, the raven salutes them; croaking and flapping its 
wings. In a sense of déjà-vu, the bird looks definitely to be 
the same that led the companions to the Dwarf-lord!
Once recognised, the bird takes flight, landing on a statue 
in the middle of Red Row, before heading straight over 
Snapfire Alley. The raven eventually comes to rest at the 
top of a small building in the northern portion of the Old 
Quarter. Once the companions reach the spot, a small door 
on the front side of the building cracks open and a hand 
beckons from the shadows to bid them quickly inside.
“Well met again!”
 says Balin, son of Fundin.
– Part Three – 
Uphill and Down Dale
Balin leads the Company into a dark antechamber, 
and then down a flight of steps, to a wide underground 
room furnished with sturdy wooden furniture and lit by 
beautiful Dwarven lamps that fill the room with light, but 
emit no smoke. He gestures about the room. “One of the 
few structures that remained intact from Dale of old. Only 
a few old Dwarves know about it,” he declares with a wink.
Dark Business
After the Company has settled and Balin has passed about 
flagons of ale, he gets down to business. 
“I have a confession to make. I did not tell you everything 
last time we met, but I wasn’t sure I could trust you. It 
was no mere misfortune that befell my friends and I. It 
seems clear that the ruffians didn’t attack us to rob us, 
but were seeking us out with another purpose. Seeking 
me out, most likely. This is why I resolved to retreat from 
public appearances for the time being. If someone wants 
me dead, then I’m safer if they think it so.”
“I wasn’t going to Esgaroth on an ordinary business trip. 
I was investigating a rumour concerning a secret meeting 
of conspirators that I was told occurred on the road 
from Dale to Lake-town. I was surprised when the thugs 
attacked us. Since I confided my plans to only a few close 
friends within the Lonely Mountain, I fear I have been 
betrayed.”
“Now, pretending to be dead will give me time to discover 
who is behind this, and it may indeed make them bolder 
and draw them from the shadows, but it severely limits 
my operations, as you can imagine! In Erebor I have a 
number of agents I can trust, but here in Dale I still haven’t 
found someone up to the task. If you are willing to lend 
your eyes and ears to me for a while, there are a number 
of leads I wish to follow.”
If the Company has no interest in helping Balin, he will be 
both surprised and disappointed, but will send them on 
their way, asking them only to not discuss this business 
or his survival. Should the heroes agree to help the old 
Dwarf, he discloses what he knows.
Questions, Questions
Balin tells the Company that months ago he started to feel 
worried at a tension rising in Dale, between the Bardings 
and the Dwarves of Erebor. What started as small quarrels 
between counsellors and envoys had steadily grown 
7

--- PAGE 34 ---
33
Of Hammers and Anvils
worse, to the point that in recent times every meeting 
of the King’s Council seemed to have an endless list of 
litigations to address, having to do with arguments flaring 
up between Dwarven craftsmen and Dale merchants and 
lords. Many in Erebor had started to openly speak against 
the “ungrateful and scornful folk of Dale”.
At first, Balin thought these troubles to be of minor concern, 
and typical of two neighbouring young kingdoms. Several 
weeks ago, that changed. Gundri, a veteran of the Battle 
of Five Armies belonging to the so-called ‘Stone Guard’ 
of Erebor got especially deep into his cups one night 
and was heard by many saying that the time was soon 
coming when, “matters would be set right, between Hills 
and Mountain. And the greedy Mannish rabble will get 
theirs...”. 
Unsure at what his words could refer to, Balin resolved to 
question the guard, but Gundri failed to show up when 
summoned. He was eventually found dead, drowned in a 
fermenting keg in Stángard, the very midst of Erebor. 
Alarmed, Balin started a full-fledged investigation, but 
has since been grasping at shadows, thwarted at multiple 
turns. He was on the river the other night because his 
agents had intercepted a message that made Balin believe 
a ‘payment’ of some sort was due to be passed between 
a Dwarf and other conspirators. The elderly statesman 
now suspects that his quarry was on to him and the 
‘intercepted’ message was, in fact a trap for which he fell.
The Task 
Balin listens grimly if the companions tell him of the 
altercation at the Toy-market. He then asks them to 
make discrete inquiries about town. He is interested in 
discovering who attacked him, and who stands to gain 
the most from rising tensions between and within Dale 
and Erebor.
Balin would like the heroes to find out what they can and 
report back what they have learned so far in a few days.
•	
If the Company achieved 2 successes or less in their 
talk with Balin on the road to Dale, he offers them the 
equivalent of 5 gold pieces apiece for their assistance, 
as well as his good will. If they achieved 3 successes 
or more, the offer is 10 gold pieces and he will speak 
to King Dáin on their behalf.
The following entries detail what the companions can 
learn in Dale, considering the players’ most likely courses 
of investigation. It will take the heroes two or more days to 
seek out every piece of information, based on their choices 
and thoroughness. 
The Toy-maker’s Tale
If the companions tried to help the toy-maker at the square, 
Thrun will look for them, as he is worried by the recent 
events — Balin’s news and subsequent need to disappear
has disturbed him. The Dwarf might ‘accidentally’ bump 
into them as they are walking on the road right after 
having met Balin, or he might show up at their favoured 
inn one evening. When the meeting takes place, Thrun 
thanks them profusely for their intervention and invites 
them to visit him later in his workshop for a private chat.
The Loremaster can structure the meeting using the rules 
for Audiences found on page 80 of Adventures in Middle-
earth Loremaster’s Guide. Thrun is an Anvil Way Smith 
(see page 45 of the Lonely Mountain Region Guide) but the 
toy-maker will not be Stubborn with the Company and 
already has a +1 Expectation of the Company due to their 
assisting Balin.
The Toy Workshop
Thrun’s workshop is on the ground floor of a building in 
Anvil Way. It’s a wide, dark locale, filled with the intricate 
mechanisms of his many toys. Wheels and gears whirr 
and click constantly, and his workbench is lined with rows 
of brass calipers, pliers and a multitude of strange-looking 
hammers of all sizes. Drawings describing the design for 
various mechanical engines line one wall. On a table 
lies what looks to be the beginning of a magnificent toy 
dragon, wrought from gold and silver.
When the adventurers arrive, Thrun looks up from his 
workbench through a series of lenses that magnify his eyes 
to a ridiculously huge degree, before setting them aside. 
Seen in his working environment, Thrun is the very model 
of a Dwarven craftsman, obsessing with the minutiae of 
his creations and always aiming for ways to perfect his 
craft. Thrun has a very short beard for a Dwarf; his hair 
7

--- PAGE 35 ---
Erebor Adventures
34
“I feel that in recent years, Dwarves from the Iron Hills have 
watched the rising of the Kingdom of Erebor with mixed 
feelings. Where people like myself have found in it an 
opportunity to develop our craft beyond even the wildest 
dreams of our ancestors, others pity our ambition and 
consider our work to be nothing more than a meaningless 
waste of time, not befitting the cunning of our kind.”
“It is thus understandable that those two poor lads from 
the Iron Hills feel such anger to see that jewellers and 
toy-makers encounter success and prosper in their trade. 
All the more when to their eyes the honoured craft of the 
toolsmith languishes, forsaken and forgotten.”
“But this is nonsense of course! There is now a wide 
world outside our mines and strongholds, and there will 
be always someone needing good tools, like hammers, 
pickaxes and mattocks. Why, several of my best tools 
came from Niping’s forge!”
Niping, he states, is one of the best Dwarven smiths alive 
today, when it comes to good solid ironwork. He is one 
of the masters of Durin’s Folk, deserving the respect and 
admiration of all Dwarves, but he is too tied to the old 
ways. He has made several public declarations criticising 
the work of the smiths of Erebor, dismissing them as 
unworthy of their trade. Judging from their words and 
provenance, the two disgruntled miners were certainly 
friends or apprentices to Niping.
Where is Niping?
Niping the smith resides in the Iron Hills, his 
ancestral home, surrounded by his faithful. He 
does not make an appearance in this adventure as 
written. He plays the part of the puppeteer, holding 
the strings but keeping himself in the dark .
got snagged in his toys’ mechanisms one too many times 
and so he sheared it short. His bright eyes twinkle when he 
talks and he talks a lot when he’s not working.
“Welcome! Welcome! Oh-ho, so you came. I hope I haven’t 
discomforted you too much with my invitation, but I think 
that what I have to say will be of interest.”
Thrun bustles about clearing tools and bits of machinery 
off chairs so one or two companions at least have a place 
to sit. 
“I am sorry if I disturbed you with my request to see 
you, but I feel I haven’t adequately thanked you for your 
help. Also, I wish to provide you with some explanation 
for the behaviour of my kinsmen. It’s not my intention 
to excuse them for their aggression, but I have pondered 
the question and I think there might be more to it than a 
simple grudge.”
Thrun as an Informer
The primary reason that prompted Thrun to contact the 
companions is plain to see: the idea that someone could 
take his craft from him, for example barring him from 
working on toys and force him to return to the forge, is an 
unacceptable nightmare, one Thrun would do anything to 
prevent from becoming reality.

--- PAGE 36 ---
35
Of Hammers and Anvils
If the companions mention Balin, Thrun glances furtively 
about his workshop. “Let him stay safely dead for now,” 
he says. “But I can help in other ways.” To further this end, 
he has something to give the companions: the toy-maker 
disappears at the back of his workshop for a few moments, 
only to return unwrapping a parcel.
As he reaches the companions he holds out what looks to 
be a silvery mechanical bird, a thrush to be precise. 
“This small mechanical friend of mine is a capable flier. If 
you let it go from anywhere around town or in its vicinity, 
it will fly straight back here, only to return to the precise 
spot from where you let it go if I wound it back and send it 
out again. This way, you could deliver a message, writing 
on a small piece of parchment and tying it to the bird’s leg: 
I will make sure the recipient will receive it. You could also 
tell anyone you wish to check here regularly for messages, 
I can keep a secret...”
Investigating the Boat
The Quays of Dale lie to the east of the Traders Gate. Its 
docks are busy from the dawn to the setting of the sun, and 
boats of many shapes and sizes are moored to the various 
landings. At first sight, no craft seems to correspond 
perfectly to the one the companions are looking for.
If the companions look for help, catching the attention of 
the right person can be a daunting prospect in the hustle 
and bustle of the Quays. A hero already familiar with how 
business is conducted here or one making a successful 
DC 10 Intelligence (Traditions) check will know to go to 
Halward, the present Reeve of the Quays. 
Halward is a stout, dark-bearded fellow originally from Lake-
town, performing his duties from a cabin near the South 
Quay. He is a busy man and has little time for questions, 
but a DC 10 Charisma (Persuasion) check will keep his 
attention for enough time to entertain the Company.
If asked about the boat the companions saw before they 
met Balin on the road to Dale, Halward will remark that 
vessels matching the description are a common sight 
along the full length of the Running River:
“Typical Dorwinion boat, for navigating the marshes. Some 
like those as they are fast, but cannot carry much weight.”
Thrun’s Marvellous Thrush
The mechanical thrush is wrought of silver and 
exceedingly intricate. A successful DC 20 Wisdom 
(Perception) check will reveal the raven’s feathers 
are in fact made of precious Mithril! The bird has an 
obvious key on its underside. Once the key is turned, 
the bird’s eyes "blink", it extends its wings and leaps 
into the sky,  wheeling about and then heading the 
right way.

--- PAGE 37 ---
Erebor Adventures
36
A question specifically mentioning the boat’s unusually 
large steerboard, or the painted eyes on its prow, will jog 
his memory.
“Aye, on the South Quay, there was such a skiff. Now that 
you ask, it was a bit peculiar, its crew met with two men I’d 
take for servants of a Barding noble.” 
“They were wearing a cloak, and it was too dark to see 
well, I fear, but when they left the docks I noticed that one 
of them was wearing a red livery under the cloak.”
The Dorwinion Connection 
Companions from Dale, or those succeeding on a DC 10 
Intelligence (Lore) check, suggest that if they wish to 
investigate the Dorwinion clue, they should probably go 
visit the Commons, the corner of the Residential Quarter 
of Dale where merchants and wanderers passing through 
town or waiting to find more stable housing in the city 
normally stay (see also the Lonely Mountain Region 
Guide, page 48). Here are the temporary accommodations 
of many merchants from the East, as well as traders and 
wine-sellers from Dorwinion.
Finding information among the brightly-coloured silk tents 
requires a DC 15 Intelligence (Riddle or Traditions) 
check. On a success, the companions are introduced to 
Katun, an Easterling merchant matriarch acting as head 
of the small community of Easterlings of Dale (if the heroes 
befriended Katun in the The Silver Needle, they do not 
need to roll — they are led to her directly).
Meeting Katun
Katun will be quite cautious with those she doesn’t know, 
but open and cheerful with friends. If asked about the 
Dorwinion marsh boat, she says that a craft corresponding 
to the companions’ description was reported stolen, only to 
be found abandoned a few days ago. 
Whoever stole it tried to sink it by smashing a hole in its 
hull, but the currents pushed it on a shallow bend of the 
River Running and some hunters noticed it. Katun knows 
the original owner of the boat, a Dorwinion trader by the 
name of Gwion. 
Gwion
With directions from Katun, the companions easily find 
Gwion. He is a middle-aged dealer in musical instruments, 
living in a house in the Residential Quarter. When the 
companions mention the stolen boat to Gwion, he can 
barely contain his rage – the boat was to be a gift to his 
younger son, who likes to go fowling on the River Running. 
One day the boat simply disappeared, and the dock 
authorities had no explanation to give! Now he will have 
to wait for a carpenter of Lake-town to repair the boat. 
If the companions treat Gwion respectfully, before they 
leave, the merchant will hand them an envelope, stained 
with traces of mud. He says:
“When I pulled the boat out of the water I found this, stuck 
under the prow compartment. I was puzzled by it, see if 
you can figure its meaning.” 
The envelope is open and contains a letter written on plain 
parchment. Written in Westron, it states:
The passage is almost complete. Make sure that your 
men are prepared.
There are no other markings, nor a signature. A DC 15 
Intelligence (Lore or Riddle) check indicates that the 
handwriting might belong to a Dwarf.
The Red Livery 
Based on the information gathered on the quays, the 
companions might decide to ask around amidst the streets 
of Dale for petty nobles whose servants use a red livery. 
7
7

--- PAGE 38 ---
37
Of Hammers and Anvils
The Missing Scale
One of the most convenient spots for gathering 
information is certainly The Missing Scale, a famed 
inn which sits on the southern edge of the Market 
Square (see page 43 of the Lonely Mountain 
Region Guide). A Loremaster may conveniently set 
the description of a particularly fruitful meeting in 
the common room of ‘the Scale’, under the gaze of the 
wrought-iron Dragon that inspired the inn’s name.
This course of investigation lets the heroes automatically 
single out three lords from the Dalelands: Bryni, Lord of 
Strandburg, Gunvar, Lord of Ashbrook, and Thegn Osgar.
A successful DC 13 Wisdom (Insight) check (or the use of 
an appropriate Distinctive Quality, see page 6) will reveal 
the general take of the average inhabitant of Dale on each 
of the three men. Each entry includes additional details 
that a hero discovers if they succeed by 5 or more. 
•	
Bryni, Lord of Strandburg (see page 57 of the 
Lonely Mountain Region Guide) is a nobleman from 
the Northern Dalelands, in town to see if he can pick 
up any fancy new trinkets. King Bard granted him the 
village of Strandburg when Bryni was not yet twenty 
years old. He is now in his thirties, and the years have 
toughened him a bit, but he hasn’t lost his desire to 
appear “lordly” to others. 
A higher success reveals that the townsfolk considers 
Bryni to be no more than a vain and incompetent fool.
•	
Gunvar, Lord of Ashbrook (see page 39 for a 
full description) has come to visit the Toy-market, 
a personal tradition he has honoured since the 
refounding of the kingdom. Gunvar is known for his 
ambition and his interest in governing of the city. 
While his manor of Ashbrook is outside the walls, 
Gunvar spends the vast majority of his days in Dale. 
Note to the LM: Gunvar is involved in the disruptions 
in Dale and is one of the villains of this adventure.
Succeeding by 5 or more uncovers that many hold 
Gunvar to be exceedingly ambitious.
•	
Thegn Osgar. An older lord who was in Lake-town 
when it was attacked by Smaug in 2941. He was 
badly burned and his left arm was left withered. He is 
known for his dislike of Dwarves, as he blames their 
greed for the destruction of Esgaroth.
 
A superior level of success finds that most inhabitants 
of Dale regard Osgar as an extremely honourable man.

--- PAGE 39 ---
PART FOUR AN INTERESTED LORD
Erebor Adventures
38
What if the Company refuses?
If the heroes refuse to meet with Lord Gunvar, the 
messenger indicates that his lord will be most upset, 
but takes their answer all the same. What happens 
next depends on the companions. Do they stealthily 
follow after the messenger or continue to look for 
answers in the city? 
Regardless, Gunvar and Niping’s plans will then 
proceed relatively unopposed. Balin may personally 
bring the Company with him when he goes back 
to Erebor to reveal himself, but much damage 
will be wrought and it will be very difficult, if not 
impossible, to determine the true guilty parties, 
advancing Niping’s plan considerably. If the 
Company accompanies Balin, they may end up being 
called upon to help fight the fires that Niping’s 
followers start in Erebor. (see 44 for details).
Back to Balin 
When the companions meet Balin again, he will listen 
attentively to what the heroes have to report. The actions 
that the Dwarf will take in the following hours is based 
on the amount of useful information he receives from the 
companions (see below).
The items of information that the heroes may report are:
•	
The heroes describe what Thrun the toy-maker told 
them about the quarrel between the smiths of the Iron 
Hills and those of Erebor. Balin is not surprised, but 
takes note.
•	
Niping is mentioned. Balin raises an eyebrow, as he 
knows the smith very well, and he had no reasons to 
doubt his loyalty so far. 
•	
The companions report that the boat is a marsh skiff 
from Dorwinion.
•	
The Company shows Balin the letter found in the boat.
•	
The heroes report the testimony about the red-liveried 
servants. 
•	
The identity of the suspected noblemen is revealed to 
Balin.
Balin tries not to betray any sentiment as the companions 
recount their findings, but a DC 15 Wisdom (Insight) 
check reveals, if the companions have reported at least 
four information items out of the six listed above, that 
Balin appears determined to take action. The companions 
convinced him that something is indeed afoot. 
As one of his most trusted advisors, Balin is to confer 
with King Dáin in three days. The Dwarf encourages 
the Company to learn anything else they can before his 
meeting, as he intends to present the king his suspicions.
– Part Four –
 An Interested Lord
The day following the Company’s last meeting with Balin, 
a messenger approaches a companion on the street. The 
man wears red livery showing a wavy blue band across 
a white field. A DC 13 Intelligence (Lore) check reveals 
He bears a missive that invites the heroes to meet with 
Lord Gunvar, as he has learned of their inquiries and 
believes that there are things useful for them to hear.
Ashbrook is about an hour’s ride to the west of Dale. If 
the group agrees to meet with Lord Gunvar, the messenger 
gives them precise directions, then he hurries off to tell his 
lord of their coming.
Off to Ashbrook
Ashbrook is a rich manor house, an hour outside of the 
walls of Dale, encircled by a short border wall delimiting 
the lord’s demesne. The building itself is dominated by a 
solid stone tower, once intended to keep bandits at bay. 
When the companions arrive, they are met before the gates 
by guards and the doorwarden, who requests that they 
leave their weapons in his custody. If the heroes comply, 
they are allowed to enter and meet the Lord of Ashbrook. 
An Audience over Dinner 
The companions are invited to take their place in the main 
hall of the manor house. A wooden table occupies the 
length of the hall, and wooden chairs with high backs are 
arranged along the two sides. As the heroes sit, a butler 
enters to fill the companions’ cups with red wine, poured 
from an elegant glass decanter. 
8
7

--- PAGE 40 ---
39
Of Hammers and Anvils
When everyone is seated, Lord Gunvar enters and takes 
his place at the far end of the table, raising a crystal goblet. 
“Welcome to Ashbrook. I invited you here because I think 
you and I are pursuing similar goals, and thus I wonder if 
we could help each other...”
Motivation & Expectations
If the companions suspect Lord Gunvar, he is not aware 
of it. He only knows that they have been asking questions 
about the relations between Dale and Erebor and has 
misinterpreted their investigation. He is certain that 
Balin is dead and has no idea that the companions might 
be acting on the Dwarf’s orders. This advantage should 
allow the companions several options for the encounter, 
for example they might ‘play along’, pretending to agree 
with Gunvar’s resolutions and offer their help (see 
overleaf).
For his part, Gunvar’s goal with this Audience is to assess 
the companions’ potential as a threat or resource, and 
to eventually neutralise or employ them, as the time 
to undertake his action of sabotage approaches. The 
following Expectations apply:
•	
+1 if the companions have their own tales of strife 
between Men and Dwarves.
•	
+2 if the heroes seem eager to take action on behalf of 
Gunvar and Dale.
•	
-1 if there is a Dwarf or an Elf in the Company, unless 
that individual convinces Lord Gunvar that they care 
more for Men than their own people.
•	
-2 if they try to reason with him or attempt to convince 
him to take peaceful measures instead of his more 
radical ideas.
Lord Gunvar
Gunvar is a tall man in his mid to later 40s, with 
black hair shot through with silver and sharp green 
eyes that miss little. His ambition and strong dislike 
for the current political situation in Dale has brought 
him to forge an alliance with Niping, as he thinks 
that the smith’s schemes will undermine the stability 
of King Bard’s rule. Gunvar’s ultimate goal is to 
replace the current king with Lord Hakon, who he 
believes would make for a far better ruler than Bard.
Gunvar is a Barding Noble (see page 46 of the 
Lonely Mountain Region Guide). He is always 
accompanied by several of his Men-at-Arms (see 
below), at least one for each Player-hero.

--- PAGE 41 ---
Erebor Adventures
40
Gunvar’s Men-at-Arms
Medium Human
STR 
16 (+3)
DEX 
14 (+2)
CON 
13 (+1)
INT 
11 (+0)
WIS 
12 (+1)
CHA 
10 (+0)
Armour 16 (Corslet of Mail, Swordmaster)
Hit Points 33 (6d8+6)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Athletics +5, Perception +3
Senses passive Perception 13
Languages Westron
Challenge 2 (450 XP)
Swordmaster. The Man-at-Arms gains a +2 bonus to 
AC while wielding a broadsword or long sword (included 
above).
Actions
Multiattack. The Man-at-Arms makes two attacks with 
his long sword.
Long Sword. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 
feet, one target. Hit: 7 (1d8+3) slashing damage or 8 
(1d10+3) slashing damage if used with two hands..
Reactions
Counterattack (Recharge 5-6). If an attack misses 
the Man-at-Arms, he can use his reaction to make an 
attack roll with Advantage. He must be wielding a melee 
weapon and able to see his attacker.
The Speech
Gunvar says that the companions need no introduction, 
as their reputation precedes them (he actually investigated 
them prior to the Audience). He instead introduces himself 
as a humble servant of the kingdom of Dale, blessed by a 
title and personal wealth allowing him to do something 
for his king. 
The spokesperson for the Company succeeds automatically 
at the Introduction check.
Soon after the start of the dinner, Gunvar stands and starts 
pacing the hall, declaiming as if making a public speech. 
“I have asked to meet you because I think that you can 
understand my concerns. The kingdom of Dale is a 
young one, not more than an infant compared to our 
neighbours, the ancient realms of the Dwarves and Elves. 
But our lineage, our heritage, goes back in time for many 
centuries. We were here before Smaug, and here we are 
again, reborn from Dragon-fire. 
But what matters more is that if it weren’t for our king there 
would be no kingdom under the mountain, and certainly 
the Woodland Realm itself would have been reduced to 
ashes by the Dragon’s wrath.
Yet today our neighbours see us as inferior, and treat us as 
such. Years ago King Bard stood tall and demanded that 
we were given what was ours by right, but he is not that 
man anymore. Wizards and foreigners have weakened his 
will, and the Dwarves and Elves have seen it. They fear 
that the king’s weakness will eventually put their interests 
in danger. 
What is worse is that most of us refuse to see. We are 
blinded by greed, and are willing to let others take 
decisions for us, as long as we are allowed to get rich. Not 
everyone is blind though. Warriors like you and I see that 
there are many enemies threatening the kingdom, and not 
all of them are beyond our borders. We see and we act 
accordingly.
“Listen, my guests,” says Gunvar, now speaking in a softer, 
more accommodating voice. “I said we, for we it may be, if 
you will join with me. Help me to strengthen the kingdom, 
for the sake of Dale in the first place, but also for Erebor 
and the Woodland Realm. A weakened throne isn’t good 
for anyone in the region.”
Gunvar’s Offer 
The lord is offering the Company a chance to join him in 
his efforts. Gunvar hints at a mission he will carry out this 
same night they are allowed to be part of, should they 
pledge their allegiance to him and his cause.
The Loremaster must now adjudicate what happens next, 
based on the actions and words of the companions during 
the dinner. Here follow a number of possible outcomes, 
to be adopted based on how the companions conduct the 
encounter:
The Companions Play Dumb
The companions try to downplay their involvement and 
their knowledge of what is going on, in an attempt to 
7

--- PAGE 42 ---
41
Of Hammers and Anvils
The Mechanical Messenger
Thrun the toy-maker’s marvellous mechanical 
thrush (see page 35) can come in handy in whatever 
circumstance the companions may find themselves. 
In particular, the bird could be employed to carry a 
message to warn Balin of Gunvar’s intention to do 
something against Erebor; if this happens, Balin 
could be forewarned and prepared for what’s coming. 
However, Dale is a great distance away and the bird 
might not succeed…
convince Gunvar that they are incompetent, uninterested 
or harmless, or a combination of the three. 
•	
They must make the Final Audience check at 
Disadvantage (Gunvar is Cunning, see page 6) and 
must use Performance or Riddle to convince him of 
their worthlessness.
If the companions succeed, Gunvar is convinced that the 
heroes are no more than inept fools, and that they do not 
represent a threat to his schemes. He lets them go, being 
careful not to give them any inkling about his plans. This 
allows the heroes to keep a watch on the manor should 
they intend to do so, and eventually witness the mustering 
of Gunvar’s men (see In Deep Places).
An Uneasy Alliance
The companions lie to Gunvar, pretending to agree with 
him and accepting his offer to join him (anguish from the 
deception causes each hero to gain 1 Shadow). 
•	
To convince Gunvar, the companions need to make 
a Final Audience check and must use Performance 
or Riddle to convince him of their sincerity. Since 
Gunvar is hearing what he wants to hear from the 
companions, his Cunning does not come into play.
If they succeed Gunvar compliments them for their wisdom 
and discernment. He then proceeds to reveal his plan 
for the immediate future: by the break of dawn, Gunvar 
and a select group of Men will finally take action and do 
something that will finally set many gears in motion; a 
demonstrative action that will shake the foundations of 
the realm. Will they be part of it? (see In Deep Places).
The Company is Imprisoned
Failing to convince Gunvar one way or the other, or 
refusing his offer outright leads to imprisonment. Guards 
enter the dining hall at a signal from Gunvar and the 
heroes are taken to several cells in the lower portion of the 
manor. The lord of Ashbrook orders his men to keep the 
companions under lock and key until further notice.
Gunvar intends to keep them in his prison cells at least until 
the sabotage of the furnaces of Erebor is accomplished. 
Later in the same evening though, the companions hear 
raised voices. Gunvar is speaking with someone (Lord 
Hakon) who is outraged at Gunvar’s rash action. The voices 
are distant and muffled — it is impossible to know who 
Lord Gunvar is speaking with. The newcomer demands 
that Gunvar send his men to Erebor immediately and 
set their plans in motion, even if earlier than intended. 
“I will send a message to inform our Dwarf friend.” The 
companions must be ‘dealt with’ the moment Gunvar 
leaves Ashbrook.
At this point, the Company will doubtless decide that the 
time has come to flee. The players will certainly come up 
with several plans, and the mustering of Gunvar’s men in 
the hours preceding the dawn could be the occasion they 
were waiting for:
•	
The Loremaster can stage the escape from the manor 
by improvising a fully detailed scene, or having the 
companions pass a series of ability checks, requiring 
a total of 9 successes. Suggested skills are Athletics, 
Investigation, Riddle, Stealth and Survival. The 
first time each skill is used set the DC at 13 and raise it 
by 2 each time afterwards. Success by more 5 or more 
counts as two successes towards the total. Have the 
players narrate both their successes and failures as 
they struggle to escape the clutches of the traitorous 
lord.

--- PAGE 43 ---
PART FIVE IN DEEP PLACES
Erebor Adventures
42
If the companions manage to flee, they recover their weapons 
from the manor’s armoury and slip out of Ashbrook.
– Part Five – 
In Deep Places
The warriors of Lord Gunvar, about thirty men, assemble 
before his manor a couple of hours before the breaking 
of dawn. They are all on horseback, wearing cloaks 
concealing their arms and armour. Gunvar intends to 
lead them to Erebor and enter the Lonely Mountain using 
a secret path that has been given to him by Niping. 
•	
If the companions have kept a watch over the manor, 
they can follow Gunvar and his men until they enter 
the Mountain.
•	
If they have accepted Gunvar’s offer and convinced 
him of their sincerity, they are given a cloak each and 
a mount, should they lack one. The Lord of Ashbrook 
tells them only to be ready, as what they are going to 
do will test their mettle and determination.
•	
If the companions were imprisoned, when they finally 
break free they will be able to follow the tracks of 
Gunvar’s men.
The following paragraphs describe the path chosen by 
Gunvar and his men and their actions. The Loremaster 
can use the information provided to adapt it to the course 
of action chosen by the players.
To Erebor 
On the northeastern side of the Lonely Mountain there 
is a large field of scree filling a narrow valley. The scree 
was carefully placed by Niping and his followers to hide 
a fissure in the mountainside that was once used as a 
narrow vent for mining gases. Niping’s Dwarves have 
secretly enlarged the fissure, connecting it to a disused 
tunnel leading deep under Erebor. 
A couple of hours after leaving Ashbrook, Gunvar and 
his men reach the field of scree and enter the concealed 
fissure. 
Into the Depths
The tunnel used by Gunvar wends down deep into the 
roots of the Mountain. Sections of it are natural, while 
others have been clearly opened or enlarged artificially. 
At times, acrid fumes fill the hollows, and water trickles 
down the passage. Clambering over the many jagged 
edges within the roughly hewn tunnel for what seems to 
be long hours is tiring (each companion must make a DC 
13 Strength saving throw or gain a level of Exhaustion).
The Abyss
The passage eventually comes to a large crevasse 
that stretches across the path. A large stone has been 
purposefully placed across the chasm as a bridge, and 
under it lies a bottomless gulf of inky blackness. Sounds 
echo from unnerving directions, and a sickly sweet stench 
rises from the depths. 
Whoever attempts to cross the stone bridge must make 
a DC 10 Wisdom saving throw or become Miserable 
while they remain underground. Miserable heroes have 
Disadvantage on attack rolls and automatically fail all 
Charisma ability checks (see page 183 of the Player’s 
Guide).
The First Forge 
Eventually, the tunnel reaches the Lower Halls of Erebor, 
not where the great underground city of Stángard lies, 
or where Thorin Oakenshield sleeps his eternal sleep, 
but where the fires feeding the furnaces of Durin’s Folk 
are kept burning day and night (see the Lonely Mountain 
Region Guide, page 14). 
A Dwarf of the Lonely Mountain will instantly realise where 
they are: in the proximity of the First Forge, a series of vast 
furnaces where the bulk of the ore extracted from below 
the Mountain is smelted. While there are many forges 
within Erebor, the one they stand within is considered one 
of the “pillars” of the Kingdom under the Mountain.
The din made by the unceasing toil of the Dwarves and the 
labouring of their great engines is deafening like the wind 
in a stormy sea, and men must yell to be heard. Here is 
where Gunvar intends to bring his plan to fruition.
Sabotage!
When they enter the vast, cavernous hall housing the 
First Forge, Gunvar and his men set about sabotaging 
the smelting furnaces and the engines employed to refine 
the precious metals. The Dwarven labourers and smiths 
8
8

--- PAGE 44 ---
43
Of Hammers and Anvil
working the night shift cry out in outrage, but are quickly 
rounded up by the armed saboteurs and imprisoned in a 
nearby chamber.
In a few moments, billows of dark smoke begin to fill the 
air. It seems that Niping’s plan worked perfectly, and the 
companions are the only ones who can do something 
about it. Or are they?
Balin’s Counterplan
While the companions were investigating on his behalf, 
Balin has been busy piecing together the parts of the 
puzzle the heroes and his agents have been providing him. 
In particular, the effectiveness of Balin’s countermeasures 
to Niping’s plan is based on how much information the 
companions brought him so far. 
1.	 If the Company brought all available information 
listed on page 38 to the attention of Balin, and 
warned him of Gunvar’s imminent action using the 
mechanical thrush, then a contingent of Dwarven 
warriors from the ‘Stone Guard’ surprises Gunvar 
and his men in the First Forge and surround them, 
forcing the treacherous Lord to surrender. Balin 
himself is present, fully armed and masked (and 
thus incognito) to capture Gunvar alive.
2.	 If Balin received all the available information 
but wasn’t warned by the thrush, then a group 
of warriors from the ‘Stone Guard’ has been 
warned to stand on alert, but will intervene only 
if the companions sound the alarms (see below), 
arriving on the scene after four rounds.
3.	 	If Balin has received at least four information 
items out of the six listed on page 38, the Dwarf has 
contacted Dwalin, telling him of his suspicions. 
From that moment Dwalin has taken to make an 
extra tour of patrol himself, and will intervene 
with his men after six rounds, if the companions 
sound the alarms (see below).
4.	 If Balin has received less than four out of six of 
the information items listed on page 38, then 
Balin has been unable to prepare anything and 
Erebor is caught by surprise by Gunvar’s initiative. 
The companions must sort the situation out by 
themselves, as even sounding the alarms allows 
Gunvar to escape the Mountain without opposition.

--- PAGE 45 ---
PART SIX TREACHERY & WISDOM
Erebor Adventures
44
Sounding the Alarms
Since the forges of Erebor are dangerous places, prone to 
all sorts of accidents, great bells, gongs and huge horns 
are distributed across the length of the hall housing 
the furnaces. Getting to them unseen requires a DC 15 
Dexterity (Stealth) check. The first alarm the companions 
try to use proves to have been disabled – further proof 
of treachery within Erebor. It takes an additional Stealth 
check (as above) to move unseen to a new alarm. 
Companions that fail either of the Stealth checks are in 
for a running battle through the forges as they search for 
an alarm to sound while Gunvar’s men attack them. Each 
companion can either fight back, or desperately use their 
action to make a DC 15 Intelligence (Investigation) 
check to find a new alarm.
Fighting Gunvar in the Forge
Unless Gunvar and his men are ambushed and captured 
by Balin and the ‘Stone Guard’ warriors, the Company 
will have to bring the fight directly to the Lord of Ashbrook 
and his men at some point or another. 
	
•	
Gunvar has 20 Warriors (Loremaster’s Guide, page 
71) of his personal retinue at his side, plus a dozen 
hand-picked Men-at-Arms (see page 40) serving as 
his bodyguard. Luckily for the companions, most of 
them are busy sabotaging the furnaces, and thus no 
more than 1 Warrior and 1 Man-at-Arms can face a 
companion at a time.
The entries listed above indicate for how long the Company 
has to fight Gunvar, before the ‘Stone Guard’ or Dwalin 
arrives to capture him and his men. If no one is coming 
(see entry 4), then the companions will have to defeat the 
saboteurs alone, let them escape from Erebor unchecked, 
or die in the attempt to stop them.
•	
Within the First Forge are many crucibles, carts filled 
with ore or slag, and other elements of the battlefield 
that both the Player-heroes and the Loremaster might 
use to their advantage. Such elements provide half-
cover for a creature crouching near them but deal 
2d4+2 fire damage to anyone forced to touch them 
directly.
– Part Six – 
Treachery & Wisdom
The conclusive part of the adventure assumes that the 
companions succeeded in avoiding the sabotage attempt, 
and that Gunvar and his men have been subdued, in one 
way or another. 
When peace and order is restored in the great hall of 
the First Forge, King Dáin himself enters the scene, 
surrounded by his mattock-wielding Iron Guard. If he 
knows the Company from past adventures, he looks 
briefly surprised to see them in the depths of Erebor, but 
immediately demands to know what is going on.
At this opportune moment, Balin reveals himself by 
removing his helm (or by arriving at the scene if he wasn’t 
present), shocking everyone. All dignitaries (the king and 
Dwalin if he is there) are both astounded and visibly 
moved to see their friend alive and well. 
Without further ado, Balin orders the guards to put all 
outsiders in chains, inviting the companions to join him 
7

--- PAGE 46 ---
EPILOGUE
45
Of Hammers and Anvil
by his side. Nevertheless, Dáin demands that all present 
come to the Great Chamber of Thrór at once and explain 
themselves. But Balin intervenes:
“My King, please let us assemble in the Great Hall of Thráin, 
here in the Lower Halls. I know you don’t favour the place 
where the Dragon used to sleep, dreaming of the butchery 
he committed against our kin, but what we have to discuss 
is not well suited to our hall of feasting and council.”
After a moment of hesitation, Dáin accepts Balin’s 
suggestion, and guards and prisoners assemble in a 
throng. If the ‘Stone Guard’ was not already present, 
then Sígar, a Dwarf loyal to Niping, slips in amidst the 
assembly.
Before the King
Balin swiftly questions the Company about what has 
transpired since last they spoke. He presents what he 
knows about the Dwarven traitor before the King under 
the Mountain. 
If the Company managed to keep Lord Gunvar alive, he 
does not know the name of the Dwarf he has been working 
with, but he has learned more than Niping realised. 
Depending on their investigations, the Company may well 
be able to make a fair guess at who might be involved, at 
least enough to bring up Niping’s name.
Niping Exposed!
Once it is clear that Niping is the traitor, the king sighs. 
“The Iron Hills are far away. But I will send for him… he will 
answer for his plotting.” At this, Sígar can take no more. 
He draws a sword and charges screaming at Gunvar. 
The Company may have suspected this and attempt 
to intervene, but unless one or more of companions 
deliberately stated that they were keeping an eye on Sígar, 
he strikes down Gunvar before being slain himself by the 
Iron Guard. If Lord Gunvar survives, he’ll imply that for 
fair treatment, he’ll impart information that could lead to 
other conspirators. King Dáin orders him taken away. He 
won’t survive Erebor’s prison – one of his own men loyal 
to Hakon will ensure he swiftly dies in captivity before he 
can reveal that lord’s involvement.
No Proof!
If the Company failed to provide evidence of the conspiracy 
(and Gunvar died in the battle) then they are likely to be 
held responsible along with the rest of Gunvar’s men for the 
damage to the Grand Forges, a particularly serious crime 
within Erebor. Thankfully, Balin intercedes on their behalf. 
Despite Balin’s vote of confidence, failure here reflects 
badly on the Company and they are at Disadvantage in 
any Audiences with Dwarves of Erebor until such time as 
their actions can rectify their mistake.
No matter what suspicions they have about who was 
behind this, their lack of proof leaves Niping at large. His 
next move will depend on the campaign. Surely Balin will 
be suspicious of him but can do very little. He will certainly 
be planning vengeance on the Company…
– Epilogue –
Once the aftermath of the destruction has become clear, 
while cheered by the return of Balin, Erebor mourns the 
death of several members of their ‘Stone Guard’ and 
labourers of the First Forge. 
Balin, Dwalin, and Dáin are hugely grateful to the 
fellowship for helping in such a delicate matter, even if not 
all goes well. If the matter of the traitor goes unresolved, 
Dáin is publicly angry with the Company, but wishes them 
well in private, citing “Dwarven politics” as the problem. 
In additional to whatever Balin promised the Company, 
if they exposed Niping, the king rewards each companion 
with a small bag of gems worth 10 gold pieces.

--- PAGE 47 ---
TO DUNGEONS DEEP
ADVENTURING PHASE
Erebor Adventures
46
-TO DUNGEONS-
DEEP
for heroes of level 8 or 9
•	
When: The adventure is set in 2959, in early autumn.
•	
Where: The Company goes west from Dale to the 
Grey Mountains’ Narrows, then visits the remnants of 
the kingdom of the Last Lord of Dale in the northern 
Waste. 
•	
What: Events concern those who seek a treasure 
mausoleum and, in particular, a coat of Dwarf-linked 
rings that was commissioned by Girion, before the 
coming of Smaug.
•	
Why: The adventure begins with a scholar going 
missing. The heroes are summoned, and tasked with 
going to the rescue.
•	
Who: The Company meets Thegn Jofur, a Barding 
dignitary, then goes seeking for the missing scholar, a 
famous Dwarf from the Blue Mountains by the name 
of Domi. In time, other dignitaries will make their 
appearance.
•	
Themes: An artefact representing the history of 
cooperation between City and Mountain now 
threatens to widen the present divisions between Men 
and Dwarves.
Adventuring Phase
This adventure is divided into six parts.
Part One – At the Court of 
the Grieving King
Here the Company meet Bard’s self-appointed chief 
counsellor, Thegn Jofur. They learn that Domi, a famous 
Dwarf scholar from the Blue Mountains, has gone missing 
while travelling to Dale. Later, they may meet Dwalin, 
inquiring about the fate of the same studious Dwarf.
Part Two – To the Grey Mountains Narrows
The companions go west, looking for Domi. They find 
a member of Domi’s party in need of rescue, and learn 
where the Dwarven scholar may have gone.
Part Three – Hunters in the Waste
The Company must travel into the Waste to seek Domi, 
who has been abducted. The kidnappers are sell-swords 
seeking the same treasure Domi was looking for, and are 
joined by allies most dire.
Part Four – The Mausoleum
The heroes uncover the lost mausoleum, but soon discover 
that there are worse things than Orcs and brigands on the 
Waste.
Part Five – Wings of Iron
When the heroes emerge from the mausoleum laden with 
gold and jewels, they will have to face a storm of iron! Out 
of the north comes revenge, riding wings of terror.
Part Six – Clouds Gather, Again
The Company meet with armed representatives of the 
Bardings and the Dwarves of Erebor, spurred into action 
by mysterious letters. Tensions threaten to erupt when the 
Dwarves and Bardings both lay claim to the treasure.
Epilogue
A wandering Wizard and his friend take council with the 
companions, to learn both the secrets of the past and the 
dangers of the present.
Secret Letters
Last summer, Domi, a famed Dwarven scholar from the 
Blue Mountains, made a great discovery while researching 
the royal annals of Durin’s Folk: in an abandoned 
depository in the western Halls of the Dwarves, Domi 
found a travelling chest bearing King Thrór of Erebor’s 
sigil. Apparently, the case was left behind after a royal 
visit, and thus saved from the ruin of Smaug. 
The chest contained a thick bundle of letters, the 
correspondence between King Thrór and Girion, Lord of 
Dale. Of particular interest was a missive from Girion, 
describing his intention to employ a group of Dwarven 
stonemasons for the building of a mausoleum in the 
Northern portion of his realm, for the purpose of “...
receiving the mortal remains of my beloved eldest, who, 
as you know, died prematurely of a fever he contracted in 
Mirkwood. He loved the frontier and will rest forever there.”

--- PAGE 48 ---
47
To Dungeons Deep
Forgotten Secrets
Centuries ago, before the Dragon came, Girion, Lord of 
Dale, gave a necklace of five hundred emeralds to the 
Dwarves, as payment “...for the arming of his eldest son 
in a coat of Dwarf-linked rings the like of which had never 
been made before...”. Everyone in Dale and Erebor knows 
how King Dáin found the necklace in the Dragon’s hoard 
and restored it to Girion’s heir, King Bard, who in turn 
gave it to the Elvenking as a gift after the Battle of Five 
Armies. 
What no one remembers is what happened to the coat of 
mail that the Dwarf-smiths forged. Legend says it was a 
wondrous artefact, “...wrought of pure silver to the power 
and strength of triple steel.” Perhaps it still lies buried in 
the Northern Dalelands, hidden in the mausoleum that 
Girion built, along with the remains of the Lord of Dale’s 
unlucky son?
Ironfoot, requesting the king’s permission to meet the 
stonemasons of the Lonely Mountain: it is the scholar’s 
hope that their ancient records will allow him to pinpoint 
the location Girion chose for his son’s burial site.
Secrets Stolen
Lord Hakon, the devious courtier of Dale conspiring 
against King Bard (see below), has many informers, and it 
took only a day for one of them to deliver a copy of the letter 
sent to Bard. It didn’t take much for Hakon to envision the 
negative diplomatic repercussions that poorly handling 
the matter of the treasure could produce.
After a brief meeting with the Sorcerer of Forod, a new 
plan for the ruin of Dale and Erebor was born. First, Lord 
Hakon will retrieve the stonemasons of Erebor’s records 
with the help of a new servant that Morlach has placed 
under his command: a cunning Snaga tracker, expert in 
sneaking into forbidden places. Then, he will send the 
Snaga and a group of armed men to intercept and capture 
Domi on the road to Erebor. 
Hakon is certain his men will be able to locate the 
mausoleum of Girion, travel there and take any treasure 
contained therein. In the meantime, he will busy himself 
in preparing a final, iniquitous act: pitting Bardings and 
Dwarves, one against the other, for the possession of 
Girion’s treasures.
The Coat of Silver Mail
Girion’s son’s mail coat first appeared in game terms 
in the Rivendell Region Guide, page 107, as part 
of the treasure reclaimed by Thorin’s Company at 
the end of the Quest of Erebor. If this particular 
information has been introduced in a campaign 
(for example, the companions met Balin and he 
was described as wearing the Silver Ring-mail), 
then the Loremaster can specify that Domi also 
found proof that the son of Girion was buried with 
the famed coat of mail, and that the one that Balin 
has is but an essay of the ancient Erebor’s armour-
smiths before they completed the final product.
Type: Corslet of Mail
Craftsmanship: Dwarven
Banes: n/a
Qualities:
1. Ancient Cunning Make  2. Ancient Close Fitting 
3. Runes of Resilience
At the end of summer, Domi wrote to King Bard informing 
him of his discovery and announcing his intention to come 
to Dale to confer with the king. The matter concerns Bard 
directly as the heir of Girion by right of descent. 
Soon after, the scholar sent another letter to King Dáin 
King Bard in 2959
Beginning with the tragic events narrated in the 
Mirkwood Campaign for the year 2956, King 
Bard has become morose and withdrawn, turning 
increasingly grim as his years lengthen. By the 
year 2959 much of the royal business is handled by 
courtiers and lordlings while the king broods. 
Within the last year, a minor noble, Thegn Jofur, has 
become one of the king’s chief counsellors, competing 
with Lord Hakon for premiership. Though not 
formally appointed to the role, the two courtiers 
carry the greater part of the burden of running the 
kingdom whilst the king grieves. On his part, King 
Bard obviously welcomes Jofur and Hakon’s presence 
and the help they provide.

--- PAGE 49 ---
PART ONE AT THE COURT OF THE GRIEVING KING
Erebor Adventures
48
– Part One –
 At the Court of 
the Grieving King
The adventure begins when the heroes respond to a 
summons from King Bard to attend him in his palace. If the 
Company has ever seen the throne room before, they find it 
a darkened place now. The glass lamps that light the main 
hall have been turned low and it takes a while to adjust to 
the gloom.
When they reach the raised dais where the throne sits, the 
companions find it empty. They are greeted by Thegn Jofur 
instead, sitting on a chair set beside Bard’s vacant seat. The 
Barding is a portly man in his late thirties, with fair hair 
and the red cheeks of someone who is either easily excited 
or overly fond of a good drink.
It is not easy to meet individuals that do not place their 
personal gain above all else... These are darkening days, 
and we have need of heroes like you, to light our way out 
of the murk. I am Jofur, son of Jormund, a humble servant 
of the king.”
Jofur’s manner of speech is pompous and elaborate, 
and it is difficult to say whether this is because he is 
unaccustomed to speaking in public, or if he is being 
sarcastic and mocking the companions — a DC 13 
Wisdom (Insight) or Intelligence (Riddle) check reveals 
that Jofur is either honest to the point of being naive, or he 
is a consummate orator.
A Plea for Help
The courtier stands up when the heroes approach, and 
greets them.
“Welcome, friends. You have been summoned here on a 
personal invitation from King Bard, on account of those 
valuable services that you have rendered to the realm in 
the past. I have heard of your exploits myself, and I am 
honoured to make your acquaintance.
Expectations
Bard has indeed asked for the heroes personally, and Jofur 
has no reasons to doubt the choice of his king, but he will 
make up his mind on them based on the outcome of the 
audience nonetheless. 
•	
+1 if the Company has one or more Bardings or Men 
of the Lake. Jofur is more likely to trust his king if he 
has at least recommended someone local.
•	
+2 if the Company asks about the well-being of the 
Playing Thegn  Jofur
Thegn Jofur’s benevolent aims have been delineated 
on page 6 of the Introduction. For the purpose of 
roleplaying his part, the Loremaster should keep in 
mind that it is the combination of Jofur’s haughty 
manners and unadventurous spirit that make him 
appear foul, even if his intentions are fair. 
Thegn Joffur is a Courtier as seen as page 46 on the 
Lonely Mountain Region Guide. He will not use 
any of his special features as he is obeying a direct 
order from King Bard, who has personally asked for 
the Player-heroes to be summoned. If it was up to him, 
he wouldn’t have resorted to asking the assistance of 
individuals he considers not much more than sell-
swords. Jofur doesn’t know the companions yet, but 
he doesn’t have any loyal servants to spare for the 
mission and must thus trust the king’s opinion. He 
knows well the sensitivity of the task, as handling 
it badly might endanger the relations between Dale 
and Erebor.
8

--- PAGE 50 ---
49
To Dungeons Deep
king. He tells them that King Bard could not attend the 
meeting because he didn’t feel well this morning and 
that he is seeing his physician. For locals, he might 
add that the king has not been feeling well for some 
time, and that Bard’s personal sorrows threaten the 
kingdom.
•	
-2 if at any time the heroes begin to speak of violent 
action or extraordinary danger. Thegn Jofur would 
rather have reliable and unexcitable guards for the 
Dwarven scholar instead of braggarts who go out of 
their way to look for trouble.
The heroes automatically win a further +3 Expectation 
modifier, since King Bard has asked for them directly.
Introduction
An introduction is not strictly necessary as Jofur is aware 
of who the companions are. Should the heroes desire to 
ask Jofur about the absence of the king, or to make polite 
inquiries about his well-being, now would be the right 
time. 
Interaction
After dealing with any opening questions, Jofur jumps 
to the heart of the matter, assuming a serious and 
confidential tone:
“An important Dwarven scholar was expected to arrive in 
Erebor from his home in the Blue Mountains. He was to 
be a guest of King Bard and sent a letter before leaving, 
describing his intended route and estimating a date for 
his arrival. He is now a week late, and we fear that some 
accident might be the cause of the delay.
What the king requires of you is simple, and proportioned 
to your abilities. Find the Dwarf, rescue him if he is in 
danger, and bring him to court, for he has important 
matters to relate to the king.”
The companions at this point might wonder what a 
Dwarven scholar has to do with King Bard, and will 
probably want to know more about the matter at hand. 
Thegn Jofur does not intend to tell them everything right 
away though: they have yet to gain his trust. 
The companions can question Jofur, but he seems strangely 
hesitant to answer their questions and they should feel 
like every question is an unwelcome imposition upon the 
courtier. The entries below indicate Jofur’s answers and 
his estimation of the Company, based on the result of the 
Final Audience check:
Failure. Jofur wonders if King Bard made an error of 
judgement. Jofur mentions the minimum amount of 
information needed for the expedition to succeed; finding 
Domi and bringing him back will gain the companions 
rewards amounting to a total of 5 gold pieces each along 
with the gratitude of the king.
Success by 0-2. Jofur lets it slip that the Dwarves could 
be interested, by saying he is prepared to match any offer 
the Dwarves make. He adds that Domi wrote to both King 
Bard and King Dáin Ironfoot, but he stresses the fact that 
the business that was bringing the scholar to Dale was 
with King Bard.
Success by 3-5. Jofur admits that a group of Dwarves from 
Erebor are currently making inquiries in Dale. To reinforce 
his position, he tells the companions that what Domi was 
researching concerns the royal line of the Lords of Dale.
Success by 6+. Jofur seems to surrender to the 
inquisitiveness of the companions and adds that Domi’s 
research concerns a lost mausoleum, built by Dwarves 
but supposedly containing heirlooms of the line of Girion.
Inquisitive Dwarves
The Dwarves of Erebor making enquiries in Dale are 
a dozen armed veterans from the Stone Guard, led by 
Dwalin, brother of Balin. The old Dwarf is in town to find 
Domi; he knew King Bard expected the scholar, and came 
to persuade him to come to the Lonely Mountain before 
striking any deal with the Bardings. He is not yet aware 
that the scholar has gone missing.
The Interrogation
Heroes approaching Dwalin about the matter at hand 
soon find themselves the object of an interrogation, as the 
Dwarf will immediately try to find out what they know of 
Domi and his mission. 
He won’t be subtle about it, as Dwalin is not a cunning 
courtier, nor a skilled orator — he is a warrior, and he is 
not afraid of making enemies out of the companions, if 
8

--- PAGE 51 ---
PART TWO TO THE GREY MOUNTAIN NARROWS
Erebor Adventures
50
need be. The presence of the twelve Stone Guards should 
be enough to persuade any hero to oblige him. For 
more information on Dwalin, see page 26 of the Lonely 
Mountain Region Guide.
Dwalin will direct his questions to whomever proposes 
themselves as the spokesperson for the Company. The 
gruff Dwarf has little time for introductions, instead 
Dwalin will get right to the interrogation, summarised 
here in three questions. Each are resolved in sequence as 
contests. Dwalin and the interrogated companion each 
make Charisma (Intimidation) checks, with the higher 
result winning the contest. 
regardless of the results, but for every false answer  a hero 
gains 1 point of Shadow.
Dwalin’s Conclusions
At the end of the interrogation, the Dwarf will have an 
opinion on the companions concerning the matter at hand, 
based on the answers they provided to his questions. 
To judge what they say from the point of view of Dwalin, 
the Loremaster must consider that, as Dwalin sees it, the 
ownership of any treasure found in the mausoleum is a 
matter that the Dwarves in Erebor should discuss first. If 
the companions find this debatable, Dwalin will conclude 
that they are agents of Bard and won’t disclose any further 
information to them. 
Dwalin also cautions the heroes not to think about keeping 
any Dwarven treasure for their own. If there are Dwarves 
in the Company, he will warn them about the punishment 
that a traitor deserves. 
In general, if the companions answered his questions 
truthfully (or at least convincingly so), then Dwalin will 
see them as trustworthy, even if they are working against 
his interests. If they lied to him or withheld information 
and Dwalin is aware of it, then he will consider them 
treacherous. (Dwalin’s opinion of the companions will 
have a bearing on the conclusion of the adventure – see 
page 63).
– Part Two –
 To the Grey Mountain Narrows
The majority of travellers coming from the west heading 
for the Dalelands choose to avoid braving the depths of 
Mirkwood. They take the longer path leading round the 
forest to the north, across the slopes of the Grey Mountains, 
deeming it to be less dangerous. Unfortunately for Domi, 
the perils of the Grey Mountains Narrows proved to be 
enough to bring his journey to an abrupt end.
There isn’t much choice for the companions if they wish 
to investigate the fate of the Dwarven scholar: they must 
trace the route he was supposed to follow, first finding 
that grey road that starts in the Northern Dalelands and 
heads towards the East Gap of the Narrows.
Companions wishing to withhold information in their 
answers may make Riddle checks in place of Intimidation, 
but a failed roll will warn Dwalin that the hero is either 
lying or not saying everything (Dwalin is Suspicious). 
If this happens, then the Dwarf will say nothing, but 
considers the companions to be enemies.
The three questions are:
•	
Where is Domi?
•	
What have you been tasked to accomplish?
•	
What is Bard looking for?
If the companions lose an opposed ability check, then 
their answer must be truthful and complete, to the full 
extent of their knowledge of the facts. If they succeed, they 
can choose to answer truthfully, refuse to say a word, or 
give just a partial answer. A hero can also choose to lie,

--- PAGE 52 ---
51
To Dungeons Deep
The Journey Begins
The journey to the East Gap of the Narrows covers a 
hundred miles across green hills and pleasant dales, 
dotted with many farms and villages. This leg of the trip 
takes five days, the Peril Rating is 1 and the companions 
will face 1 Journey Event.
Event Suggestions
Once known as the Desolation of Smaug, this region 
is more prosperous every year, the shadow of the 
Dragon now only a distant memory. But memories may 
sometimes return unexpectedly, as the following examples 
demonstrate. You can use these events in place of regular 
Journey Events.
The Weather Takes a Nasty Turn
It’s been raining for days, and the green, hilly landscape 
of the Dalelands looks less pleasant when your boots are 
heavy with mud and your cloak is full of water. The Scout 
of the Company must pass an Investigation check, or 
each hero gains a level of Exhaustion.
The Ruin
The companions pass a broken-down ruin by a placid 
pool. By the edge of the pool are the fresh remains of a 
Man and a Dwarf (not Domi but another unfortunate 
traveller), laying in positions that indicate their final acts 
were to drink from the pool. The heroes must each pass a 
Corruption check (DC 15 Wisdom saving throw) or gain 
2 points of Shadow each.
Long
     Lake
E
Esgaroth
E Dale
E
Erebor
E
Elven King’s
Halls
u
Withered Heath
The Waste
c
o
Northern
Dalelands
Enchanted Stream
Grey Mountain
 Narrows
n
Woodland 
Realm
c
8

--- PAGE 53 ---
PART THREE HUNTERS IN THE WASTE
Erebor Adventures
52
A Long Shuddering Howl
After a few miles into the East Gap, the heroes see a fire to 
the south of the path as they set up camp for the evening. 
As they approach, they hear the howling of wolves. The 
wild beasts are circling a lone, barren tree, trying to get 
to a young man who climbed on top of it and who is 
desperately fending off the wolves using a flaming branch. 
To save the man the companions must fight the wolves, 
killing them or driving them off. They are hungry and 
fierce, for they recently escaped the Elves of Mirkwood, 
and are ambushing any traveller they encounter in the 
Narrows. 
There are three Wolves for each member of the Company; 
the beasts flee when half or fewer remain. (See the entry 
for Wild Wolves, page 111 of the Loremaster’s Guide). 
Final Words?
The man on the tree goes by the name of Clifford Sedger. 
He joined Domi and his following when the Dwarf passed 
through Bree. Cliff left his home seeking his fortune, and 
almost died in the attempt: he is bleeding from a wound 
to his leg.
When Cliff descends from the tree he has the time to ask 
the Company for a final pipe, then he collapses to the 
ground: the poor Bree-man has lost too much blood. A 
companion can wrestle Cliff from the grasp of death by 
healing him for 10 hit points or more. Cliff can still speak 
with the companions otherwise, but in such a case he will 
pass away before the night is over.
Cliff can share the following information with the Company:
•	
Cliff was accompanying a ‘Dwarf-lord’ from the Blue 
Mountains, travelling to Dale with a retinue of six 
other Dwarves (if the companions mention Domi by 
name, he confirms it’s the same Dwarf). Cliff was 
in charge of taking care of the ponies the Dwarves 
bought in Bree.
•	
Two nights ago, armed men ambushed the caravan 
just before sundown. When the attack started, Cliff was 
badly injured by an arrow to the leg and left for dead. 
When he recovered his senses, he counted three bodies 
of Dwarves on the ground. Domi was not among them.
•	
The attackers were men, well-armed and ruthless, and 
among them was a small, squint-eyed creature, a Goblin 
perhaps. It was that creature that shot Cliff through 
the leg.
The Dawn Breaks
When the morning comes, the companions can start 
looking for Domi and his captors. If Clifford didn’t make 
it, the heroes should take the time to give him a decent 
burial (failing to do so gains each hero a Shadow point). 
If the Bree-man is alive, he insists on going with them: he 
says that while he will certainly slow them down because 
of his wound, he knows his ponies well and he is sure he 
can follow their tracks better than anyone.
The tracks left by the attackers are easily found in 
daylight. They head north, towards the foothills of the 
Grey Mountains, only to head east after a few miles.
To stay on the path, the Guide must succeed in a DC 10 
Wisdom (Survival) check each day. If Clifford is with 
the Company he grants Advantage on these checks. On 
a failed check, add one day to the journey as the Guide 
struggles to retrace the tracks of Domi’s captors.
– Part Three – 
Hunters in the Waste
Following the tracks of Domi and his captors, the heroes 
head back east. It takes them three days to cross the 
Northern Dalelands and get to the border of the Waste 
(four days if they are travelling with Clifford). 
Then, the companions travel without coming in sight of 
Domi for another forty miles, marching across the Waste 
for four more days. This leg of the journey has a Peril 
Rating of 3 and the companions will experience 1d2 + 1 
Journey Events — the dust storm (see below) might serve 
as the final Journey Event. Furthermore, each companion 
must make a Corruption check (DC 15 Wisdom saving 
throw). On a failure the hero gains a Shadow point, as the 
dreary nature of the land saps away at their spirit.
While in the Waste, the companions must continue to pick 
out Domi’s trail amidst the broken and desolate landscape. 
They must make a DC 15 Wisdom (Survival) check each 
8
1

--- PAGE 54 ---
53
To Dungeons Deep
day. If Cliff is still with them, he provides Advantage on 
the checks. 
Journey Event Suggestions
Here in the Waste the Desolation of Smaug endures still. It 
is a blasted land of ash, cracked earth, charcoal-fingered 
woods, and incinerated buildings, blackened by Dragon-
fire. There is little animal or plant life, just a few mean 
shrubs, thorns, and endless beetles and maggots. Most of 
the water here is found in sulphurous pools.
Supply Shortage
The companions discover that the stress of the hunt has 
taken its toll beyond all expectations, leading them to 
indulge excessively in eating, drinking, or in some habit. 
Water or food is scarce now, or the cache of pipe-weed 
is nearly depleted. All companions must make a Wisdom 
saving throw or become temporarily Miserable for the 
length of the journey.
Fleabitten
A nasty breed of fleas has infested the companions’ 
sleeping cots! The companions sleep poorly for nights on 
end, and suffer an unbearable itch by day. All companions 
must make a Constitution saving throw or gain a level of 
Exhaustion.
Catching up with Domi 
After four days of marching across the Waste, fierce winds 
start blowing from the north at night, whipping up a storm 
of ashes. Fine grit swirls and gets everywhere: equipment, 
provisions, clothing, eyes and mouths, leaving an acrid 
taste. When the wind finally drops the following dawn, 
the companions realise they cannot find the tracks they 
were following.
•	
To relocate the missing trail after the storm has 
destroyed any sign of it, the Company must 
thoroughly scout the area. Any Scouts must make a 
DC 20 Intelligence (Investigation) check to find 
the tracks. Cliff cannot aid in these efforts and each 
Scout can only make two checks per day. A Scout 
that voluntarily spends an entire day searching gains 
a level of Exhaustion but finds the trail just before 
nightfall and can lead the companions to it the next 
morning.
Regardless of the number of days it takes them to succeed, 
the heroes are fortunate in that the villains expect no 
one – the Company can easily catch them unawares. 
They find Domi and three other Dwarves on top of a low 
and wide hillock. They are busily digging in the ground 
with pickaxes and mattocks, watched over by a strange 
menagerie of creatures.
Goblins and Hobgoblins of
the Worst Description
When the companions arrive (if they choose not to attack 
the camp at first sight, they can be allowed an Arrival Roll 
to judge how the journey has affected them), they witness 
that two interested parties have come together in a loose 
alliance to seize the contents of the mausoleum:
One is a group of six tall, bony, Orc-like brutes, with long 
arms and flat faces: a hero proficient in Shadow-lore or 
possessing the Orc-lore trait identifies them as Hobgoblins, 
particularly ferocious creatures, haters of other breeds 
of Orcs and hated by them in return, and particularly 
powerful in the dark. See page 98 of the Loremaster’s 
Guide for more information. They have approached the 
captors of Domi offering to guide them across the Waste, 
in return for a reward.
 
The other is the group of Cut-throats (see page 56) that 
captured Domi: a band of mercenaries on the payroll of 
Lord Hakon. They are brigands of the worst kind, they 
are led by Firbul, a cunning Goblin sent by Morlach. The 
group counts two Cut-throats for every companion, plus 
their Goblin leader.
8
1
Longo’s Lieutenants
If the players have been playing the previous 
adventures presented in this supplement, then Vig, 
Kasper and Swain, the trusted right-hand men of 
the bandit Longo, may make an appearance. Always 
ready to make powerful friends, if they are still 
alive and free they have taken Lord Hakon as their 
new employer and have been sent to assist Firbul in 
leading the cutthroats looking for Girion’s treasure.

--- PAGE 55 ---
Erebor Adventures
54
The brigands have set up an encampment within a circle 
of large stones, a few yards away from the digging site, 
while the Hobgoblins squat beside a fallen and dried tree-
trunk, on the other side of the hillock.
In the Nick of Time?
If the heroes succeeded in the prolonged search in the 
Waste in two days or less, they arrive before the entrance 
to the mausoleum of Girion has been fully unearthed. The 
Dwarves are chained and being forced to dig in the rocky 
ground, watched by the men that captured them. 
If it took them more than two days to find Domi, the 
companions arrive as they are in the final stages of 
digging out the mausoleum, too late to save the Dwarves 
other than Domi: having outlasted their usefulness, they 
have been given to the Hobgoblins for them to feast upon. 
The sight of their broken bodies causes all companions 
to make a Corruption check (a DC 15 Wisdom saving 
throw) due to anguish. A failure gains a hero a point of 
Shadow. Fortunately for Domi, his captors decided the old 
Dwarf was too useful to kill yet.
Outnumbered but not Outwitted
The Company is significantly outnumbered and may decide 
that a direct assault is not a prudent idea. The heroes need a 
clever plan, something that will let them reverse the odds. The 
next paragraphs summarise a few possible courses of action. 
Free the Prisoners
If the companions manage to get the captives free (if they 
are still alive), the three Dwarves accompanying Domi will 
leap upon the Hobgoblins with fury, wielding their digging 
tools to deadly effect and keeping the monsters out of the 
combat while the Company fights the rest of the foes. Their 
struggle will last for five rounds, at the end of which the 
three Dwarves will end up dead, having brought down 
four of the six Hobgoblins with them.
Keep them Bickering and Quarrelling
Should the heroes observe the group of adversaries for a 
few hours before taking action, they will see that three of 
the Hobgoblins and the Snaga tracker often quarrel over 
who will get ‘the treasure’ once the Dwarves have dug it up. 
The arguments always end with shouting and threatening, 
but no weapons are drawn. Is this something that clever 
heroes could find a way to exploit? Hobgoblins are not the 
brightest creatures among the servants of the Shadow… 
Divide and Conquer
The companions can attempt to exploit the distance between 
the men-at-arms’ encampment and the Hobgoblins, 
possibly to attack them separately, by setting up a diversion. 
Some examples include setting the encampment on fire 
or using Elven magic. Also, small groups of Cutthroats 
leave the encampment regularly on patrol, and try to find 
something to eat or drink in the unwelcoming Waste. 
8

--- PAGE 56 ---
55
To Dungeons Deep
The companions could ambush a couple of patrols while 
away from the digging site (each patrol is composed of 3 
Cutthroats; if they are not all successfully Surprised, one 
blows a horn to sound the alarm).
The Battle is On
The Loremaster must take into account the following 
elements when the companions finally engage the enemy:
•	
The pale light of the Waste is too weak to trigger the 
Hobgoblin’s Sunlight Sensitivity. At night, they will 
use their superior ability to see in even the blackest 
night to gain any advantage. See page 98 of the 
Loremaster’s Guide for more information.
•	
If the Hobgoblins are out of the fight for any reason, 
or if the companions start gaining the upper hand in 
the fight, Firbul will look for a way out and quickly 
flee the battlefield. He won’t spare the lives of his men 
to accomplish this, and he has another ace up his 
sleeve… (see page 60).
•	
If Firbul is killed or he deserts his men, then any 
surviving Cutthroats will rout and flee as soon as their 
casualties exceed the number of surviving fighters. 
•	
Domi is too old for battle, and tries to stay out of it. He 
won’t be of any use to the companions.
Firbul, Snaga Tracker
This small but guileful Orc serves the Sorcerer of Forod. 
The Nazgûl has found several ways to employ the Goblin’s 
cruel cunning. (Firbul’s superior capabilities have been 
represented using special features presented in the 
Rivendell Region Guide, page 69 and on).
Firbul
Small humanoid (orc-kind)
STR 
10 (+0)
DEX 
17 (+3)
CON 
12 (+1)
INT 
13 (+1)
WIS 
15 (+2)
CHA 
11 (+0)
Armour Class 14 (Orcish Leathers)
Hit Points 31 (7d6+7)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Perception +6, Stealth +7
Senses darkvision 60 ft, passive Perception 16
Languages Orkish, Westron
Challenge 1 (200 XP)
Craven. If Firbul starts his turn with 15 or fewer hit 
points, he must make a DC 10 Wisdom saving throw. 
On a failure, he becomes Frightened until he finishes a 
short or long rest and must use his Dash or Disengage 
action to move away from any enemies. If movement is 
impossible, he will take the Dodge action.
Expertise. Firbul doubles his Proficiency Bonus for 
Perception and Stealth (included above). 
Nimble Escape. Firbul can take the Disengage or Hide 
action as a bonus action on each of his turns.
Sneak Attack. Once per turn, Firbul deals an extra 
3 (1d6) damage when he hits a target with a weapon 
attack and has advantage on the attack roll, or when 
the target is within 5 feet of an ally of Firbul that isn’t 
incapacitated and he doesn’t have disadvantage on the 
attack roll.
Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, Firbul has 
disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks that rely on sight.
Wicked Cunning (1/day). Firbul can use his bonus 
action to add +2 to his Armour Class for the remainder 
of the combat.
Actions
Multiattack. Firbul makes two attacks with either his 
knife or his bow.
Jagged Knife. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 
ft, one target. Hit: 5 (1d4+3) piercing damage.
Bow of Horn. Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, range 
80/320 ft, one target. Hit: 6 (1d6+3) piercing damage. 
The target must also make a DC 13 Constitution saving 
throw or be Poisoned for 1 minute

--- PAGE 57 ---
PART FOUR THE MAUSOLEUM
Erebor Adventures
56
Cut-throats of the Dalelands
Firbul’s men are among the many outlaws and misfits that 
Lord Hakon of Dale has been recruiting lately. Violent and 
ruthless, they resent any authority, but they nevertheless 
obey all orders the diminutive Goblin gives them, as they 
sense that behind Firbul lies a longer, deeper shadow.
After the Battle
At the end of the fight, the digging site will most likely be 
covered by the bodies of friends and foes alike. Above, the 
grey sky soon becomes speckled with black dots, carrion 
birds slowly circling the battlefield. 
If the companions investigate the corpses of the Cut-
throats, they find several clues indicating that these men 
must have visited Dale recently. In their pouches they 
carry food clearly bought in town, and wine flagons that 
any companion who knows the area can tell were bought 
from local wine sellers. 
Cut-throats
Medium Human
STR 
16 (+3)
DEX 
13 (+1)
CON 
18 (+4)
INT 
11 (+0)
WIS 
12 (+1)
CHA 
10 (+0)
Armour Class 14 (Corslet of Mail)
Hit Points 51 (6d8+24)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Athletics +5, Perception +3, Survival +3
Senses passive Perception 13
Languages Westron
Challenge 2 (450 XP)
Berserk. After the first round of combat, the Cut-throat 
may make a single melee weapon attack as a bonus 
action on each of its turns.
Horrible Strength. f the Cut-throat makes a successful 
melee attack, they may use their bonus action to cause 
additional damage equal to their Strength modifier (+3) 
to the target.
Actions
Multiattack. The Cut-throat makes two attacks with their axe.
Axe. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 feet, one 
target. Hit: 7 (1d8+3) slashing damage or 8 (1d10+3) 
slashing damage when wielded with two hands.
Reactions
Reckless Hatred. When reduced to 0 hit points, the 
Cutthroat can, as a reaction, make a single melee attack 
against any target within 5 feet before succumbing to death.
– Part Four – 
The Mausoleum
Domi the scholar and any surviving Dwarves will be 
extremely grateful to the Company for their intervention 
and thank the adventurers profusely. As soon as they 
learn that the heroes were not sent by fate but that they are 
on an actual rescue mission, the Dwarves manifest their 
firm decision not to leave and continue digging up the 
mausoleum. It would be a terrible shame not to complete 
the work they have started, after all the hardships they 
have been through.

--- PAGE 58 ---
57
To Dungeons Deep
If the companions arrived at the digging site before the 
entrance to the mausoleum was fully unearthed, Domi 
and his surviving companions will immediately set to 
work – it will take them another day to finish digging. If 
the companions arrived late, then the stair descending to 
the mausoleum is already visible at the bottom of a large 
hole dug through the layers of ash. 
The Tomb
The mausoleum was erected here, far away from the heart 
of the kingdom of Dale, to hide it from the grieving eyes 
of a father who lost his dearest son. Built with the aid of 
Dwarven stonemasons, it is a small architectural wonder, 
reflecting the greatness of a kingdom that only Dragon-fire 
could consign to oblivion. 
The mausoleum is a subterranean building, an inverted 
construction with floors going below the ground, instead 
of rising tall above the surface. 
Domi the Scholar
Domi was born close to three centuries ago. He 
remembers Erebor’s former glory, but he can see 
the fields of Azanulbizar and the Dwarf bodies that 
covered them just as clearly. This notwithstanding, 
Domi’s curiosity for the lore and legends of the past 
is undimmed, compelling him to travel over mountain 
and vale despite his advanced age, to uncover the 
lives of the lost, their stories, and treasures. 
There is a quiet, wizened peace to Domi. He knows 
that he has lived beyond the years of many a Dwarf, 
and his days are now limited. This acceptance has 
brought him a brightness and joy for each day that 
he sees. His face is so filled with wrinkles as to 
appear like a cobblestone street, but his deep-set eyes 
still twinkle above his cloudy white beard.

--- PAGE 59 ---
Erebor Adventures
58
The Royal Mausoleum
The mausoleum was planned such that it might 
eventually house the sepulchres of Girion, Lord 
of Dale, and his two sons. Only one of the burial 
chambers was excavated fully, as the Lord of Dale 
was killed by the Dragon, Smaug, and his younger 
son outlived the realm he was meant to rule. From his 
line descends the current Lord of Dale, King Bard.
Players can guess the above information using their 
knowledge of Dale’s history. Otherwise, a DC 15 
Intelligence (Lore) check is required.
The Entrance
Domi’s companions have dug out a flight of stone stairs, 
descending into the ground. The steps are covered in 
heavy black ash, which takes some time to sweep away. At 
the bottom of the stairs, a stone door awaits, untroubled 
by time. 
If the heroes are reluctant, Domi precedes down the stairs, 
jumping two steps at a time, suddenly as sprightly as a 
young deer. The other surviving Dwarves remain on the 
surface, exhausted by the digging.
The door is set into a dark grey wall. It is kept shut using 
four rope knots held by wax seals bearing the sigil of 
Girion. Dried by the arid air of the Waste, the seals 
crumble upon inspection. The door is not locked, and 
swings open when pushed, as if the centuries it laid under 
the earth were but days.
Beyond the door lies the vestibule, a dark, rectangular 
chamber, with a low and vaulted roof. When the 
companions make some light, they find that the walls are 
decorated with wonderful murals, depicting a Dalish lord 
holding court over many noble-looking men and receiving 
homage from Dwarves and Silvan Elves. It is certainly the 
work of a master craftsman, the shining example of an art 
now long lost.
On the corners of the wall opposite the gate stand two 
stone statues, portraying armoured men with folded arms 
and bowed head. No openings are visible on any of the walls.
The Hidden Doors
On the far wall of the vestibule, the Dwarven builders 
cunningly hid three doors. It takes a DC 20 Intelligence 
(Investigation) check to locate the first concealed door. 
If a Dwarf is present (including Domi), the searcher has 
Advantage on the check. As soon as one of the doors is 
found, the other doors are easier to spot (DC 15). Each 
door opens by applying pressure at a particular point, and 
swings inward reluctantly with the the slow grinding of 
stone on stone. 
Beyond each opening is a roughly-hewn tunnel that 
descends deeper into the ground; the tunnels to the left and 
right end abruptly, as the construction of the chambers 
they were meant to lead to was never completed. Only the 
central door leads to a burial chamber, that of the eldest 
son of Girion.
The Bridge
The tunnel starting from the central hidden door descends 
for a few yards, to reach a chamber with a floor covered 
by polished black marble tiles. Here, a cold breeze blows, 
emerging from a fissure dividing the chamber in two. A 
narrow stone bridge spans the fissure, whose dark depth 
is impossible to fathom. A DC 10 Intelligence check 
reveals that the bridge is safe. n a failure, the characters 
waste time trying to work out how secure the bridge is, or 
to find a way to traverse it safely. 
An iron door opens on the far wall of the chamber, on the 
other side of the bridge. At either sides of the door hang 
two great braziers, wrought of black iron and suspended 
from the ceiling using long chains. The iron door is closed 
and locked, and no keyholes or opening mechanisms are 
visible. 
By some ancient Dwarven craft, the iron door opens only 
if both braziers are lit. Lighting a brazier requires a DC 
17 Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) check, as the cold breeze 
keeps extinguishing the flames as if it were guided by a 
malicious will (a hero possessing the Fire-making or 
Smoking trait may invoke it here to gain its benefits).
The Sepulchre
The iron door opens to the resting place of the eldest son of 
Girion. It is an octagonal chamber, lit dimly by a narrow 
shaft falling down from an opening at the centre of the 
7
7

--- PAGE 60 ---
59
To Dungeons Deep
domed ceiling. When the companions enter, their feet 
disturb a deep layer of dust covering the floor. The air is 
stuffy, and feels warmer than the breeze blowing from the 
fissure outside. 
The light of the shaft falls directly on a stone sarcophagus 
in the middle of the room. It is a massive, oblong block 
of limestone, upon which is laid a great slab of white 
marble. The slab is perfectly polished, its surface graven 
with runes that read: 
He who lies here was a Prince among Men, first born of 
Girion, Lord of Dale
cabinets, glass urns and vases, golden bowls, dishes and 
cups. On the floor, along the walls, lie mounds of coins, 
trunks of time-spoiled clothes, boxes of jewels, fine pottery, 
old banners and ruined tapestries, and racks of blades, 
well-crafted and rusty, set alongside suits of armour. 
Right behind the sarcophagus is the object of the adventure: 
hanging on a stand is the coat of armour of Girion’s eldest 
son. When torchlight falls on it, the Dwarf-linked rings 
shimmer like flames upon water, for a moment filling the 
sepulchre with the blaze of ghostly Dragon-fire.
Adventurers, or Tomb-robbers?
Unfortunately for the adventurers, the riches that lie in 
front of them are not a treasure trove accumulated by a 
Dragon or by a family of thieving Trolls, but the grave 
goods of a prince whose lineage leads directly to the 
current ruler of Dale. This means that the heroes cannot 
rightfully claim anything they find in the mausoleum, and 
taking something is a Misdeed, causing each hero to gain 
2 Shadow points each. 
If this is not obvious to the companions and they start 
looting the tomb, Domi will clarify the issue for them: in 
a burst of outrage he will call them thieves, reminding 
them that their actions will call upon their heads both the 
enmity of the house of Bard and the everlasting hate of the 
Dwarves of Erebor!
The sides of the sarcophagus are intricately carven, 
showing Dalish riders hunting deer in a forest. The fair 
faces of Elves hiding in the trees spy the passing hunters. 
The presence of a couple of hideous, many-legged creatures 
identifies the forest as Mirkwood.
The walls of the octagonal chamber are lined with shelves, 
laden with many wooden chests, ivory caskets and 
Magical Treasure Rolls
Tf one or more companions are willing to pay the 
cost and run the risks detailed above (including the 
wrath of Domi), then the gold, gems and precious 
items contained in the tomb can be considered a hoard 
with a rating of 100**. If the Loremaster is using 
the rules presented in the Rivendell Region Guide, 
this is a good opportunity for the Loremaster to 
introduce a Wondrous Object or Legendary Weapon 
or Armour from the campaign’s Magical Treasure 
Index. Something that can defend against, or harm, 
a Dragon could be a good choice, considering the 
adversary that the companions will face in the next 
adventure…

--- PAGE 61 ---
PART FIVE WINGS OF IRON
Erebor Adventures
60
A Voice Filled with Evil and Horror
While the companions pause dumbstruck in front of 
the magnificence of the sepulchre, the Sorcerer of Forod 
arrives. Unclad and invisible, the presence of the Nazgûl is 
immediately perceived by everyone inside the mausoleum 
as a sudden chill, and the certainty that something 
terrible has manifested on the surface. Each hero must 
make a DC 10 (DC 15 at night) Wisdom saving throw 
or become Miserable while they remain underground. 
Miserable heroes have Disadvantage on attack rolls and 
automatically fail all Charisma ability checks (see page 
183 of the Player’s Guide).
If any companions remained outside the mausoleum, 
they can see nothing, but the feeling of dread is almost a 
physical sensation, like drowning in cold water: exposed 
companions must additionally resist his Thing of Terror 
feature (see page 154 Heroes made Frightened will then be 
targeted by his Shadow of Fear (see below).
After appraising the situation, Morlach leaves, but not 
before rending the air with his Deadly Voice: a deafening, 
high-pitched cry provokes all Frightened companions to 
become Stunned.
– Part Five – 
Wings of Iron
The plan of Morlach was simple: he made his appearance to 
weaken the companions, so that they will be more vulnerable 
to the attacks he has planned with the help of Firbul.
Out of the Forgotten North
A lost breed of monstrous birds of prey still lives in the 
Grey Mountains, survivors of the rookeries of the fortress 
of Angband in the North. The Messenger of Mordor has 
summoned a flock of the creatures from their hideous 
eyrie, putting them under the command of Firbul the 
Goblin.
When the companions emerge from the mausoleum, 
they will soon see dark shapes in the sky, circling lower 
and lower, until it is too late to escape. Without a sound, 
the flock of great birds falls upon the Company, trying to 
shred them all to ribbons. 
The Attack
There are as many Silent Vultures as there are companions, 
plus one that Firbul rides; he commands the great birds 
to attack the companions. If the Goblin is killed, the rest 
of the vultures will soon relent (after a number of rounds 
of combat equal to the number of companions still in the 
fight).
Silent Vultures
Bred by the Great Enemy uncounted centuries ago, 
possibly in mockery of the Great Eagles, these creatures 
are gigantic birds of prey, with wide wings, sharp talons and 
serrated beaks. The black feathers of their wings are hard 
as iron, and send sparks flying when they scrape stone, so 
that the Silent Vultures are able to set fire to a forest, if it 
helps them to ferret out their quarry. They emit no sound 
nor noise: legends tell how the Great Enemy struck them 
dumb when he grew tired of their screeching voices.
8
The Shadow of Fear
If the Ringwraith finds only Loremaster characters 
outside the mausoleum (for example, Clifford the Bree-
man, or any of the surviving Dwarves accompanying 
Domi), the Sorcerer scatters them to the four winds in 
fear, and then singles one of them out to put the Shadow 
of Fear upon. The Ringwraith turns the unfortunate into 
a spell-bound agent, commanding them to steal the Coat 
of Silver Mail when the first occasion presents itself. If 
a companion is Frightened, the hero may instead become 
the subject of the compulsion and be forced to betray his 
friends by the Sorcerer. 
Since it is not possible to establish beforehand what the 
companions will resolve to do with the precious armour 
(carry it with them, hide it, etc.), every Loremaster will 
have to decide by themselves how and when to trigger this 
eventuality, and which consequences it will generate. 
Will the Dwarves blame the companions for the theft? 
Will Lord Hakon succeed in pitting Dale against 
Erebor? Will the disappearance of the main item of 
contention between the two factions unite the Dwarves 
and the Bardings against the common enemy?

--- PAGE 62 ---
61
To Dungeons Deep
The Journey Back
Hopefully, the companions will eventually emerge 
victorious from the fight, probably wounded and weary, 
still reeling from the dizzying sight of the magnificent 
treasure buried in the sepulchre. They have accomplished 
much of what they set out to do, but in front of them now 
lies a long journey south, one they cannot hope to make 
whist laden with treasure and also, potentially, in the 
company of Clifford the Man of Bree, Domi the scholar, 
and some other exhausted Dwarves in their train. 
Before they set out, the companions need to take some 
decisions about the disinterred mausoleum and the 
treasure it contains. Concealing the entrance to the tomb 
requires half a day, but one possibility they might consider 
is to leave someone behind, to keep watch on the ruins.
The Straightest Path
As far as the return trip is concerned, the companions 
have little option but to follow the shortest route back to 
more civilised lands. Their path will bring them southeast 
for about 30 miles, to the edge of the Waste, and then 50 
miles south, to pass the Lonely Mountain to the east and 
finally reach Dale.
•	
Since the heroes have a clear destination in mind, 
they can consider this one journey with a Peril Rating 
of 2 and 1d2 Journey Events. However, one day after 
they have left the Waste behind, the companions 
have an unexpected encounter...
7
Silent Vulture
Large Monstrosity
STR 
15 (+2)
DEX 
18 (+4)
CON 
20 (+5)
INT 
6 (-2)
WIS 
13 (+1)
CHA 
10 (+0)
Armour Class 15 (natural armour)
Hit Points 63 (6d10+30)
Speed 10 ft, fly 60 ft
Skills Perception +3
Senses passive Perception 13
Challenge 3 (700 XP)
Fell Speed. The Silent Vulture may take a bonus action 
to Disengage and move up to its speed towards an 
enemy it can see.
Keen Sight. The Silent Vulture has advantage on 
Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight.
Actions
Multiattack. The Silent Vulture attacks once with its 
talons and then either attacks with its beak or uses 
Disgorge.
Beak. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 11 (2d6+4) piercing damage
Talons. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 9 (2d4+4) slashing damage and the target 
becomes Grappled (escape DC 13). Until the Grapple 
ends, the creature is Restrained and the Vulture cannot 
Grapple another target.
Disgorge (Recharge 6). The Silent Vulture regurgitates 
the contents of its poisonous belly in a 10-ft cone. Each 
creature in that area must make a DC 13 Dexterity 
saving throw, taking 17 (4d6+5) acid damage on a failed 
save and half as much damage on a successful one.

--- PAGE 63 ---
PART SIX CLOUDS GATHER,  AGAIN
Erebor Adventures
62
– Part Six – 
Clouds Gather, Again
The Company is slowly approaching the Lonely Mountain 
travelling across the Northern Dalelands, when they spy a 
wide encampment filled with tents and banners, raised on 
a green field not far from a small village. The companions 
reach the field by crossing a wooden bridge, spanning a 
narrow watercourse. On the other side of the bridge, the 
companions are met by a group composed of both King 
Bard’s Royal Archers in their head-to-toes black livery, 
and mattock-wielding Dwarves that clearly belong to 
Dáin’s famed Iron Guard.
The guards seem to be expecting the companions, and 
without further ado escort them to the centre of the 
encampment.
A Council
It seems that, days after the companions left Dale, word 
of their secret mission surfaced and spread like wildfire 
among Dwarves and Men alike (the work of Lord Hakon, 
who secretly seeks to ignite a quarrel between Erebor 
and Dale). 
Even in the absence of an official confirmation to the 
rumour, a number of Barding lords and Dwarves took 
into their own hands the matter to find out what the 
heroes may, or may not, have found on their adventure. 
When Dwarves and Men met on the roads leading north, 
everyone suspected that someone else knew more than 
they did, and things seemed they could escalate very 
quickly. Luckily for everyone involved, Thegn Jofur of the 
Bardings and Dwalin of the Dwarves met and decided that 
all they could do for the moment was to sit and wait for the 
companions to return.
When the companions do actually arrive, both Thegn Jofur 
and Dwalin struggle to hide their surprise and relief. None 
of them really expected the companions to return, not 
to mention to see them appear with news of a fabulous 
treasure! 
When they recover, they jointly announce to the heroes 
that they are called to participate in a council to ‘discuss 
matters’ in the name of their respective kings. 
A Knife’s Edge
The companions will not be the only ones to speak at the 
council, but their intervention will be necessary to tip the 
balance in favour of one case or the other. Hopefully, they 
won’t disgrace themselves in front of the assembled lords 
before they can make a difference.
To convince the assembled lords, the heroes will make a 
series of ability checks and keep track of their score. Each 
success adds at least 1 point to the score and an ability 
check that succeeds by 5 or more adds 2 points.
7

--- PAGE 64 ---
63
To Dungeons Deep
When the heroes have scored 5 points or failed three 
checks their time to speak is up. Consult the chart below 
for the results.
Introduction
The council is held at the centre of the encampment, in 
an open area dividing the two factions. Heralds announce 
that Thegn Jofur and Lord Hakon will speak for the 
Bardings, and that Dwalin and Domi will do the same for 
the Dwarves. The names of many other lords present are 
called, possibly some the Company knows, but they are 
here to witness, not speak. 
The companions are asked to introduce themselves in 
front of the assembly, even if they are well-known to 
everyone present, having likely served both kingdoms 
in their time. The speaker for the Company must 
make either a DC 15 Charisma (Intimidation) or 
Intelligence (Traditions) check. A success on this 
check does not add to the Company’s score but a failure 
does count. 
When they are finished, Thegn Jofur rises from his seat. 
As the primary sponsor of their mission, he invites the 
heroes to recount their tale in detail. This requires a DC 15 
Charisma (Performance) or Intelligence (Traditions) 
check. Riddle can be substituted for Traditions if the 
companions intend to withhold some information. This 
check counts both for the Company’s score and their total 
number of successes.
Interaction
When the companions are finished describing what 
happened since they left Dale, the council moves to the 
most important matter, the true object of this gathering: 
to solve the problem of who is the rightful owner of the 
treasure of the mausoleum, and in particular of the Coat 
of Silver Mail.
Dwalin alone speaks for the Dwarves. Old Domi sits to 
one side noting everything that is being said and only 
correcting on points of historical accuracy. The presence 
of Domi makes things difficult for Dwalin, as the scholar 
cannot ignore the uncertain historical ground upon 
which the Dwarven case is built (see below). Distracted by 
Domi, Dwalin is quick to take offence, and Lord Hakon is 
cunningly able to oblige.
Lord Hakon speaks for the Bardings, as for the moment 
he enjoys a leading position in court, compared to Thegn 
Jofur. Jofur on his part takes every occasion to intervene, 
reminding everyone about his role as the first sponsor for 
the companions in their quest. 
Lord Hakon’s Voice
IIf this is the first time that the heroes have met 
Hakon and found themselves imprisoned by Lord 
Gunvar then allow them a DC 13 Wisdom (Insight 
or Perception) check. Heroes that succeed realise 
that it may have been Hakon’s voice who said that 
they should be killed. This is, of course, impossible 
to prove.
Ancestral Rights
The key points of the debate are as follows.
•	
Dwalin presents the Dwarven case first. His speech is 
short and direct, with no concessions to persuasion or 
rhetorical skills (Dwalin firmly believes what he says to 
be right, and thinks that no oratory is required to make 
his point). In a few words, he concedes that it is true that 
all records chronicle how Girion paid for the Coat of 
Silver Mail with a necklace of emeralds, but he reminds 
everyone that the necklace was returned to Bard by 
Dáin after the Battle of Five Armies. Moreover, the very 
existence of the mausoleum has been discovered only 
thanks to the studies of a Dwarven scholar.
‘As a consequence, it is only fair to recognise that 
the Dwarves have the right to claim at least a share 
of the treasure, and that the Bardings hold no right 
whatsoever over the Dwarf-mail.’

--- PAGE 65 ---
Erebor Adventures
64
1.	 Recognise the right of the Dwarves over the coat 
of mail and a share of the treasure. Even if it is 
debatable whether the necklace’s restitution to the 
Bardings gives the Dwarves any right over the coat 
of mail, it cannot be denied that the treasure of the 
mausoleum has been found thanks to the efforts 
of the Dwarves, and of old Domi in particular.
		
This is the hardest option to drum support for, but 
is the one that is most likely to avoid consequences 
in the future. All checks are DC 17.
2.	 Recognise the right of the Bardings to claim the 
whole treasure. The tomb is clearly marked as that 
of the son of Girion, Lord of Dale. King Bard is 
Girion’s heir, and thus he has a rightful claim over 
the coat of mail and the treasure.
		
This is the easiest option, as it’s the one with the 
soundest proofs supporting it, but it will gain the 
companions the enmity of the Dwarves of Erebor 
loyal to Dwalin. All checks are DC 15.
3.	 Convince the Bardings to leave the Coat of Mail to 
the Dwarves, regardless of any point of law, as a 
token of goodwill from a loyal ally.
		
The third option is difficult, as it finds a strong 
opposition in Lord Hakon and his loyal Barding 
supporters. All checks are DC 16.
The Decision
When the players are finished trying to affect the council’s 
decision, Lord Hakon and Dwalin call for a vote. If the 
companions accomplished their ability checks, the 
assembled dignitaries express their decision accordingly, 
choosing the option sponsored by the heroes. Otherwise, 
Lord Hakon has it his way, and the Bardings claim the 
whole treasure (option 2).
The following entries detail the consequences of the three 
possible decisions.
•	
Option 1. The council gives in to the uncompromising 
position of the Dwarves, possibly committing an 
injustice, but saving the day and keeping the peace. 
A minority among the Barding nobles criticise the 
companions for their stance, but their hostility for the 
•	
Lord Hakon presents the case for Dale, turning 
Dwalin’s own words against him. His oratory is as 
eloquent and persuasive as Dwalin’s was dry: in so 
many words Hakon states that Girion paid for the 
coat of mail in his time, a fact that cannot be denied. 
But what the Dwarves decided to do with Girion’s 
necklace after that is of no consequence at all! Anyone 
not of the house of Girion claiming any right over the 
mausoleum or taking anything from it would be a 
thief and a liar.
‘The coat of Dwarf-linked rings and everything else the 
companions found in the tomb belong to the kingdom 
of Dale and nothing is due the Dwarves.’ 
It is indeed clear that both parties make claims that are 
hardly reconcilable. As soon as the orators are done with 
their speech, other voices are raised in support of this or 
the other argument. Old grudges flare, and accusations 
are exchanged. Survivors of the burning of Lake-town 
recall how it was Erebor’s obvious wealth that brought 
the Dragon to Dale; Dwarves from the Iron Hills remind 
them how many of their kin laboured hard to rebuild 
their city of stone. Veterans of the Battle of Five Armies 
from both sides shake their heads, remembering how 
this same spirit almost brought ruin upon them all that 
day.
The debate promises to become increasingly fierce. Harsh 
words are on the verge of being exchanged that cannot be 
unsaid, and dire consequences loom. If the Player-heroes 
do not intervene, the argument will escalate to a degree 
that may harm alliances.
The Debate 
The heroes’ participation will help the council to reach 
a conclusion. There are three main options (unless 
the Loremaster or the players propose more) and the 
companions must choose to side with either the Bardings 
or the Dwarves, or opt for a middle ground.
The companions must choose one proposal to back. 
Convincing the council is a set of ability checks requiring 
a total of 5 points (as above). Intimidation, Persuasion, 
Traditions or even Performance are all equally valid 
choices. The difficulty of the checks is indicated under 
each proposal entry.
8
8

--- PAGE 66 ---
EPILOGUE
65
To Dungeons Deep
moment only takes the form of angry mutters. (Lord 
Hakon is disappointed, but will attempt to add fuel to 
this fire in the future).
•	
Option 2. The council rewards the speech of Lord 
Hakon, denying the Dwarves any right over the coat 
of mail or the treasure. Many voices raise in outrage 
from the Dwarven camp, and Dwalin leaves to return 
to Erebor, with a dozen followers in train. 
To Lord Hakon’s great delight, from now on Dwalin is 
considered to hold a grudge against the Bardings and 
the companions, regardless of whether they sponsored 
this option or if they opposed it, but failed to stop the 
decision. If the heroes meet the Dwarf in the future, 
they will find him ill-disposed towards them, to the 
point that he will do anything in his power to foil their 
endeavours.
•	
Option 3. The Dwarves are given the coat of mail as 
a token of good friendship. Everyone but Lord Hakon 
is happy.
•	
Another Option. If the Company found their own 
way to a peaceful resolution, the Loremaster must 
determine the consequences, using the information 
above as a guide.
– Epilogue –
Later in the day, as all the dignitaries that participated 
in the council slowly start making their way back to 
their respective manors and palaces, the companions 
are discreetly approached by a hooded young man and 
invited to follow him to a pavilion erected close to the 
bridge. Companions who have visited King Bard in the 
past may recognise the messenger as a minstrel from the 
royal court of Dale.
Inside the pavilion, the companions are probably 
surprised to see Gandalf the Grey, seated on a stool 
smoking his pipe, handing a tobacco-jar to Balin, son 
of Fundin. The Wizard welcomes the companions with 
a smile, as he invites them to enter the pavilion quickly, 
and closes the tent behind them tightly. Balin bows 
deeply, before sitting next to Gandalf and starting to light 
his pipe.
“So, it was quite a dreadful business,” says the Wizard, 
“and it nearly was disastrous! Tell us a bit about it...”
Gandalf and Balin wish to draw some conclusions about 
the current relations between the Bardings and the 
Dwarves of Erebor, and want to do this with the help of the 
companions. Based on how the council went, the two will 
either congratulate the heroes, exchange furtive, worried 
looks, or, in the worst case, even shake their heads in 
bitter disapproval. 
Consequences
If the heroes performed poorly in the council, the 
relations between Dale and Erebor are chilled for the 
immediate future. Both communities suffer as mutual 
suspicion festers: trade slows, and Dale can no longer 
automatically rely on immediate military assistance from 
Erebor or the Iron Hills as grudges old and new will make 
Dwarven leaders slow to act. Meanwhile, the Dwarves of 
Erebor start laying in provisions and consider importing 
foodstuffs from further abroad. Any Bardings or Dwarves 
gain one point of Shadow.
Neither Bard nor Dáin will allow war over a single coat of 
mail, no matter how fair, but their friendship is, for a time, 
strained. In the short term, Bard likely gains the coat, and 
Lord Hakon’s reputation rises even higher among  the 
king’s counsellors.
If the heroes are very successful at the end, Lord Hakon’s 
hopes for a political future are dashed and he is banished 
from Dale. He returns to his estates to plot, gather 
brigand forces, and make further alliance with the Orcs. 
The Company will have made an enemy of Hakon. He will 
maintain a cold anger towards them, and seek revenge at 
a later time of his own choosing (Lord Hakon will restore 
enough of his political influence to trouble the heroes in 
Shadows in the North).
Regardless of the outcome, the Company has a decent 
chance of being well regarded by both Dale and Erebor. 
Even if they ultimately sided with the Bowman, King Dáin 
respects loyalty and he will not quickly forget the lives 
of any Dwarves saved. Likewise, King Bard understands 
all too well that duty can be a heavy burden and will not 
hold a grudge against a Dwarf companion that spoke for 
Erebor.
12

--- PAGE 67 ---
SLEEPING DRAGONS LIE
ADVENTURING PHASE
Erebor Adventures
66
-SLEEPING-
 DRAGONS LIE
For heroes of level 9 or 10
•	
When: After the events of The Watch on the Heath, 
in the Wilderland Adventures supplement. It is quite 
likely that a few years have passed; the assumed 
starting date is 2960, in late spring.
•	
Where: Erebor, and the Watchtower on the edge of 
the Withered Heath.
•	
What: The Company are sent to slay a Dragon that 
slumbers in the ruins of the Watchtower.
•	
Why: Smoke is rising from the Watchtower, and the 
sages agree that this is an ill omen – for Dragon-
smoke one day brings Dragon-fire the next.
•	
Who: King Dáin Ironfoot places a bounty on the 
wyrm’s head.
•	
Themes: A Dragon stirs in the North, made bold 
by Morlach. If the heroes do not triumph then the 
divisions between City and Mountain will be set alight 
by Dragon-fire.
Adventuring Phase
The adventure is divided into seven parts.
Part One – Smoke On The Horizon
King Dáin fears that the Dragon of the Watchtower is 
growing too strong, and will soon turn his greedy eyes 
south to Erebor, as Smaug did before. He therefore calls 
for heroes to strike before the wyrm turns.
Part Two – On Dragons
The Company – and the Loremaster – are invited to consider 
Dragons, and the many problems associated with them.
Part Three – The Shadow of his Wings 
On their journey north, the companions risk betrayal by 
their rivals on this quest.
Part Four – Across the New Desolation
Leaving the lands of men, the Company must brave the 
peril of the New Desolation around the Watchtower.
Part Five – The Passage of the Gorge
Approaching the borders of the Withered Heath, the 
Company must evade or defeat the Dragon’s Orc-servants. 
Part Six – By Stealth and Guile 
The Company arrive at the ancient Watchtower, and make 
their way through its halls in search of the enemy. 
Part Seven – Slaying the Dragon
Finally, the companions face the Dragon, and either defeat 
it or perish.
Epilogue
The Dragon is dead! Or is it not? If victorious, the heroes 
earn honour and renown.
The Nature of the Beast
Wilderland Adventures introduced a Dragon named 
Raenar, a terrible Cold-drake from the North that slew 
King Dáin II Ironfoot’s great-grandfather (also named 
Dáin) at the gates of his kingdom in the Grey Mountains. 
Depending on how the final adventure played out, Raenar 
might be:
•	
Dead, at the hands of the Company or in battle with 
the vile Gibbet King.
•	
Alive, having heeded the companions’ warning and 
avoided the Gibbet King’s sorcerous trap. In such a 
situation, Raenar skulked around the mountains 
for a few years before taking up residence in the 
Watchtower. The Company’s warning means Raenar 
will be better disposed towards them when at last they 
meet (see page 92).
•	
Alive, having defeated the Gibbet King. In this case, 
Raenar made the Watchtower of Zirakinbar his home 
immediately.
If Raenar was slain in The Watch on the Heath, then 
his place in this adventure is taken by Wruenele, a young 
and brash Fire-drake, hatched in some forgotten nest in 
the north. Bravest and biggest of his brood, Wruenele 
flew south with the intention of using the abandoned 
Watchtower atop Zirakinbar as his lair until he grew

--- PAGE 68 ---
PART ONE SMOKE ON THE HORIZON
67
Sleeping Dragons Lie
big enough to rival Smaug the Mighty. Although he 
can breathe hot fumes, his fire is as yet weak and thin 
compared to the blazing conflagration of Smaug. If you 
have not incorporated the events of The Watch on the 
Heath, use whichever Dragon you prefer. 
The 
two 
Dragons 
are 
effectively 
interchangeable 
throughout most of this scenario, so when a passage 
refers to the Dragon, it applies to either candidate for arch-
villain. When we need to refer to a specific Dragon, we 
shall use his proper name of either Raenar or Wruenele 
(for brevity, we must dispense with the honourifics and 
titles that are properly used when referring to a Dragon!).
Wasn’t Raenar a Cold-drake?
The adventure is written presuming that the new draconic 
threat to the North is of the fire-breathing quality. Since 
the Great Worm Raenar was presented in Wilderland 
Adventures as a Cold-drake, a wingless wyrm unable to 
breath fire, then the Loremaster has two options if they 
want him to be the main antagonist: 
•	
If you are playing Erebor Adventures as a campaign, 
Raenar becomes a Fire-drake by means of powerful 
dark magic, performed by Morlach, the Sorcerer of 
Forod. The Ringwraith sets Raenar’s poisonous fumes 
alight using ancient Morgothian spells, and gains a 
new ally for Sauron.
•	
The second option is to consider that Cold-drakes are 
Dragons whose fire has gone out, and that they can 
grow hot again (see Hearing Stories about Dragons 
on page 72), given enough time. When Raenar first 
appeared he was diminished in size and strength by 
a long slumber, and now he is approaching his full 
stature again.
– Part One – 
Smoke on the Horizon
In the years prior to this adventure, travellers in the desolate 
lands north of Erebor report seeing wisps of smoke on the 
distant horizon. Campfires, perhaps, they thought, but the 
next year the smoke plumes were darker, larger, and fouler, 
like the grumblings of a volcano. At the same time, whispers 
came back to Erebor that a Dragon may have returned to the 
North, but those rumours were unsubstantiated by any proof. 
Still, Dáin could not sleep easily, and he began to dream 
of smoke against the winter sky. The King under the 
Mountain consulted his sages, learned men and women 
steeped in Dragon-lore. He spoke, too, to alchemists and 
hunters from Dale who dare to hunt young and bestial 
Cold-drakes out on the Waste, and even to those Elves 
whose memory reaches back even unto the Elder Days 
before the first Dragon arose to trouble Men and Dwarves 
alike. He even sought the counsel of passing Wizards. All 
agreed that sleeping Dragons are best left alone, but on 
the question of Dragon-fire there was no consensus. 
Some said that the fire of Dragons was placed in them 
by the Enemy when the monsters were first bred in the 
pits beneath the mountains, and that they have only a 
certain reserve of hot breath, and that when this reserve is 
emptied they wither and die. Others claimed that Dragons 
draw strength from gold, and that the heat of their flames 
depends on their greedy triumphs. Still others said that 
the Enemy made different breeds of Dragons, hot and 
cold, winged and wingless, and that the different breeds 
cannot intermingle any more than Men and Elves (and 
that brought Dáin little comfort, for he has heard the Lay of 
Lúthien, and dreamt of a monster as hideous as the Half-
elven are fair). No-one, not even the Wizards, could assure 
Dáin that a Dragon’s fire could not grow in strength, or or 
that a Cold-drake could not set its breath alight in time.
The King’s Summons
If the Company enjoy a good reputation in the North, 
they are contacted by one of the king’s messengers (a 
raven, if they are in the wilderness, or a herald, if they 
are at home). Dáin’s messenger describes the quest to the 
Company, and bids them visit the Dwarven king at Erebor 
so that he may speak with them more fully.
Otherwise, they may hear of an opportunity to serve King 
Dáin through their contacts or patrons. Dáin is careful 
not to reveal his intention to destroy the Dragon – he 
fears (correctly) that the Dragon might have spies and 
agents who would give the monster advance warning if he 
publicly called for Dragon-slaying heroes. 
Meeting The King
King Dáin meets with the Company in his halls beneath 
the Lonely Mountain.
9

--- PAGE 69 ---
Erebor Adventures
68
Motivation
In addition to Dáin’s usual concerns (see page 19 of the 
Lonely Mountain Region Guide), the dreams of Dragon-
fire weigh heavily on the king.
Expectations
Add the following to Dáin’s regular Expectations:
•	
+1 if there are any Dwarves in the Company.
•	
+1 if the companions revealed Niping’s treachery in 
Of Hammers & Anvils.
•	
+1 if they’ve met a Dragon before, +3 if they’ve killed 
a Dragon.
•	
-5 if the Company betrayed Dáin’s trust and failed to 
keep the mission secret (only if they were informed of 
Dáin’s plans in advance by messenger or herald).
Introduction
The Company spokesperson must make an Introduction 
check as normal. If the Company has slain a Dragon, this 
check is made with Advantage.
Interaction
Dáin describes the threat of the Dragon to the Company. 
He believes that the Dragon’s fires are waxing, and that 
soon its breath will blaze as fiercely as Smaug’s — and, as 
Dragon-greed and Dragon-fire are two sides of the same 
coin — a fiery Dragon is a hungry one, this is bound to 
bring devastation on Erebor. The Dragon must be killed or 
driven away before its fires grow too strong.
Dáin recommends that the Company travel in secret and 
as swiftly as possible, in the hopes of reaching the peak of 
Zirakinbar before it is too late. Such a recommendation is 
reasonable.
 
He also says that he cannot risk giving any support or 
assistance to the Company, for fear of some spy seeing the 
hand of the king and warning the Dragon. This paranoia 
may seem unreasonable to the companions, so a successful 
DC 15 Charisma (Persuasion) check convinces the king to 
give the Company supplies and mounts for the journey, as 
well as an escort to the edge of the Dale-lands. This allows 
the Company to skip Preparing for the Journey (page 72).
Final Audience Check
Once the speaker for the Company has made the Final 
Audience check, compare the result to the list below.
Failure. Dáin doubts the Company’s competence and 
will speak openly of seeking other groups to destroy the 
Dragon. The heroes may still brave the quest, and the king 
will grudgingly give them a partial reward (treasure worth 
5g each). Of course, at that rate, they may be better off 
taking the Dragon’s entire hoard for themselves, earning 
a huge fortune… along with the eternal enmity of the King 
under the Mountain and his folk.
Success by 0-2. As a reward for slaying the Dragon, Dáin 
offers each companion gold and precious gems amounting 
to 15 gold pieces. He warns that the Dragon’s hoard, if 
such a thing exists, is rightfully the property of the King 
under the Mountain and must be returned to him intact

--- PAGE 70 ---
69
Sleeping Dragons Lie
(depending on the events of To Dungeons Deep this may 
be a particularly difficult conversation).
Success by 3-4. In addition to the reward, the heroes may 
select one of the benefits listed below. 
Success by 5. As the previous entry but the companions 
can select two benefits.
Success by 6+. The companions can now select three 
benefits in addition to the base reward.
As the meeting with the king comes to a conclusion, the 
companions may — depending on their level of success 
— learn more about their mission or negotiate a higher 
reward. The following benefits are available:
•	
The heroes may realise they will not be alone on the 
quest and learn about The Other Hunters (see below).
•	
The companions may want to learn more about the 
Dragon’s lair (see Secrets of Mazarbul on page 70).
•	
The Company might wish to research their foe (see 
Hearing Stories about Dragons on page 72).
•	
The heroes might ask for a richer reward and increase 
Dáin’s offer by 10g per companion (see below)
The Other Hunters 
In addition to the Company, there are three other groups 
in Dale who plan to slay the Dragon and claim the bounty. 
The Company may learn the identity of these rivals from 
the king, or by spending a day to gather information in 
Dale, requiring a DC 15 Intelligence (Riddle) check to 
worm the truth out of various vendors and innkeeps.
All of these rival hunters are already on the road, and 
have a head start of a day or two on the Company.
•	
The Brothers Khuldrim: Despite the name, there 
are rather more than two or three of them, and they’re 
not related by blood. These are a company of Dwarves 
led by a Dwarven warrior named Khuldri. Once, his 
brother, Skuldri, fought by his side, hence the name of 
their band. Skuldri and most of the rest of the group 
perished on another quest. Now their places have been 
filled by new and untried adventurers. Secretly, some of 
these new companions plan to use Khuldri’s good name 
and reputation as a cloak to hide their own foul deeds. 
The Brothers are encountered again on page 75. 
•	
Greystroke and Skirfira: Greystroke is a human hero 
from lands unknown; tall and grim, bitter and fell-
handed, she carries an Elven great spear called Nameless 
that she took from a Troll’s treasure-hoard (so called 
because Greystroke cannot read Elf-letters, and never 
lets the spear go so that anyone else can read it). She 
rarely speaks. Her boon companion is a young Dwarf 
of the Iron Hills named Skirfira Silvertongue, a scholar 
and poet known for her merriment (and for being one of 
the very few Dwarf-women to defy convention and travel 
openly). These two show up twice in the adventure, on 
pages 74 and 89.
9

--- PAGE 71 ---
PART TWO ON DRAGONS
Erebor Adventures
70
•	
Lord Elstan: The First Captain of Dale, commander 
of the Royal Barracks, Elstan is widely known in 
Wilderland. He wears shining Dwarven armour and 
bears a mighty shield, the Aegis of Dale, inlaid with 
truesilver and steel by the Dwarves in days of yore, 
blazoned with the sigil of the River Running. He is a 
hero of antique mode, like one of the fabulous toys 
of the Dale-market sprung to life. Lord Elstan is not 
as young or strong as he once was; he snoozes in his 
armour in the summer heat, and catches cold more 
quickly in winter. Still, he is the king’s champion and 
determined not to fail. There is a further description 
of Elstan on page 52 of the Lonely Mountain Region 
Guide. He meets an unpleasant fate on page 76. 
1. Secret Entrance: There is a concealed entrance into 
the cellars of the Watchtower. The key to the door is ‘a 
polished axe, thrice’.
2. Traps: The Great Hall is guarded by a mighty stone. 
Should enemies breach the gate, the stone can be lowered 
to block the entrance tunnel, protecting the Watchtower 
from the mightiest foe.
3. Treasure Vault: A secret vault was built when the tower 
was carved out of the mountain. It is in the last bedchamber 
on the left, and the entrance is hidden in the floor. 
The book also mentions other aspects of the Watchtower, 
like the fabled Chamber of Winds that channelled the 
howling winds of the mountains into music, or the Raven’s 
Perch, but the Dragon has smashed the upper levels of the 
fortress and those wonders are lost forever.
– Part Two – 
On Dragons
Before departing on their journey, the Company may 
consult with sages or make other preparations for the 
quest. The longer they linger, the greater the risk that the 
Dragon’s fires grow hotter – but only a fool would go into 
the Wild without so much as a handkerchief. 
Secrets of Mazarbul
The Dwarves’ record vaults contain a book that describes 
the Watchtower on the heath where the Dragon lairs. 
The original book was written in an obscure dialect of 
Khuzdul, but Skirfira Silvertongue has translated the text 
into the common tongue. In the introduction she laments 
the loss of a page in the original that contained a plan for 
the Watchtower.
If the Company request it of Dáin, he permits them 
to read this new translation, which takes a day. If the 
companions once long ago read the original, they find 
that Silvertongue’s work is much easier to understand. 
The companions learn the following secrets:
The Dragon’s Eye
The Rivendell Region Guide presents rules for 
the Eye of Mordor, representing the Dark Lord’s 
hostility to the Free Peoples, and how he can more 
easily spy the presence of large companies and 
powerful heroes. In this adventure, the Dragon is a 
more pressing danger, so a variation of those rules 
is used.
The Dragon Watches
Much like the Eye of Mordor, these rules measure the 
Dragon’s Hunt score and the Company’s  Veil score.
The Dragon’s Hunt
The Hunt score measures how aware the Dragon is of the 
heroes. As the companions leave Erebor, the Hunt score

--- PAGE 72 ---
71
Sleeping Dragons Lie
starts at the highest Proficiency Bonus of the Company, 
modified as follows:
+0 for each Hobbit
+1 for each Man or Elf of any kind
+2 for each Dwarf of any kind
+1 for each Legendary Weapon or Armour
If the Company is indiscrete about their plans, word will 
reach the Lord Hakon’s ears and soon make it to Morlach 
and thence to the Dragon. Increase the Dragon’s Hunt 
Score by +4 if the Company speaks too loudly of their 
secret mission from King Dáin.
When the Hunt score increases, the Company must make 
a Dragon Awareness check, which works the same as 
an Eye Awareness check. On a failure, the Dragon goes 
hunting (see Hunt Episodes, below).
The Veil
Use pages 112-3 of the Rivendell Region Guide to determine 
the Company’s Veil score. Note that if the heroes are 
indiscreet, then the Dragon will know their mission and 
the -4 modifier applies. 
After a Hunt
The Dragon’s Hunt score resets to its starting value after 
a Hunt Episode, as the Dragon assumes it has dealt with 
the threat. However, the Dragon’s flames grow hotter each 
time it hunts (see below).
The Growing Fires
As the Companions draw closer to the Dragon’s lair, they 
see signs of his growing fires. The flames grow brighter 
over time, as the Dragon’s power intensifies. waxes wroth. 
The visible signs depend on the number of Hunt Episodes 
that have occurred.
0: The air is unwholesomely hot and heavy.
1: A column of black smoke stains the horizon, giving the 
Company a clear mark for which to aim. 
2: The small scrub forests near the Watchtower are alight, 
and their flames can be seen for miles. Afterwards, all that 
remains is a blasted and withered landscape of skeletal 
ashen trees. 
3: The smell of ash and sulphur on the wind grows stronger. 
The stench is foul and at times makes it hard to breathe. 
Smaller jets of steam burst from cracks in the ground, as 
the Dragon’s growing power corrupts the very land.
4+: A hellish glow can be seen at night from within the 
watchtower, as though the heart of the mountain is on 
fire. Rumblings that might be earthquakes or the passage 
of the Dragon tremble through the earth. 
Hunt Episodes
Unfriendly Eyes: Crebain and other unfriendly birds fly 
overhead. The Company’s Look-out may attempt to hide 
Raising Awareness
The Dragon’s Hunt score increases by +1 each day that 
passes. (This is a change from the regular Eye of Mordor 
rules, and reflects the need for haste in this adventure.)
The Hunt score increases by +1 when a hero rolls a natural 
1 on an ability check. 
Other events can also increase the Hunt score; such instances 
are noted in the individual encounters. The Loremaster 
should also increase the Dragon’s Hunt score if the 
companions attract undue attention through odd behaviour, 
loud boasting, profligate spending or other strangeness.
Unlike the Eye of Mordor, the Dragon’s awareness of the 
Company is not increased through Shadow gain or the 
use of magic.

--- PAGE 73 ---
Erebor Adventures
72
from these watchers with a Stealth check (use the current 
Hunt score as the DC). If the check fails, the crebain 
spot the Look-out and report back to the Dragon — from 
hereafter the Dragon knows the Company’s mission (see 
The Veil, above).
Rumbles in the Earth: The ground trembles and groans 
as the Dragon stirs. All members of the Company must 
make a Corruption check (DC 15 Wisdom saving throw); 
those who fail gain a point of Shadow, and quail in the 
face of such a primordial monster.
Servants of the Dragon (From Part Four onwards): A 
band of Orcs — three Orc Soldiers per hero, led by an Orc 
Chieftain (see pages 102-3 of the Loremaster’s Guide) — 
ambushes the Company. The Orcs fight under the banner 
of the Dragon – they are from one of the war-bands that 
serve the monster, anticipating looting and carnage when 
the Dragon finally rises from its bed in the Watchtower 
and goes south to Dale. For martially-focused companies, 
count the troupe as Bloodthirsty (Loremaster’s  Guide, 
page 119).
The Burning Land (From Part Four onwards): The 
Dragon’s growing fires have set the countryside alight, 
and the Company’s path leads through wildfires. During 
the Journey they may take another route - all Scouts 
may make Investigation checks; if no-one succeeds, 
the Company loses a day’s travel and may try again the 
next day, or they can brave the flames – each companion 
makes an Athletics check; failure means the character 
takes 14 (4d6) fire damage.
The Hunting Dragon (From Part Five onwards): The 
Dragon rises from its bed and goes hunting. If the Dragon is 
Wruenele, then the Company have little hope of battling the 
flying Dragon in the open, and must hide from him (Stealth 
checks use the current Hunt score; the Dragon will use his 
Fire Breath against any heroes in the open). If the Dragon 
is Raenar, then the Company may (foolishly) choose to 
attack him in the open, in which case battle is joined. The 
Dragon retreats if reduced to half its starting hit points, 
covering its retreat with a thick cloud of impenetrable ash.
Preparing for the Journey
In a normal adventure, the Company are often assumed to 
prepare thoroughly for their journey, and there is no need 
to play through the purchasing of provisions, assembly of 
gear, hiring of mounts, and other quotidian elements of 
an expedition into the Wild. In this adventure, however, 
the companions are up against a time limit.
If King Dáin agrees to outfit the Company, they can leave 
immediately and preparing takes no time. Otherwise, 
they must each make a DC 16 Wisdom (Survival) check 
to secure the necessary equipment quickly and efficiently. 
The DC is modified as follows:
-2 if any member of the Company is a resident in good
standing in Dale or Erebor.
-1 per 1g spent purchasing gear.
-2 per previous attempt on this check.
Only one attempt may be made per day. If the check fails, 
the companion has failed to gather what they need, and 
must wait a day before venturing forth. If they wish to start 
travelling without all necessary supplies, they may do so 
at added risk: for the rest of the journey, any checks made 
as a result of a Journey Event are made at Disadvantage.
Hearing Stories about Dragons
Each member of the Company may make a DC 10 
Intelligence (Lore or Shadow-lore) check to recall useful 
facts about Dragons and how to slay them. Each success 
gives the Company one of the following bits of lore, which 
translates to a Preparation die (see below) that the heroes 
can use in the final battle.
The Company may also choose to wait in Erebor and 
consult with sages, skalds, lore-masters and old greybeards 
in inns; each day spent researching gives another piece of 
valid lore. Many entries list a skill or ability that the hero 
might employ against the Dragon (see below).
•	
Some Dragons are hot and breathe fire. Their lesser 
cousins, the Cold-drakes, are cold and breathe out 
poisonous vapours. Whether these Cold-drakes are a 
different breed wrought by the Enemy in the elder days, 
or if they are Dragons whose fires have gone out, none 
but the Wise can guess. It’s pointless asking Dragons 
themselves about the matter, for all that a given Dragon 
cares about is itself, and it always assumes that it is the 
very model and paragon of the form. 
7
2

--- PAGE 74 ---
PART THREE THE SHADOW OF HIS WING
73
Sleeping Dragons Lie
•	
Dragons have a soft underbelly – it’s the only place 
they’re really vulnerable.
•	
Dragons can confuse their victims with spells and foul 
vapours. One must be stern of will when facing them. 
(Wisdom helps resist many of their abilities.)
•	
They delight in riddles, and cannot resist playing the 
riddle-game if challenged. (Riddle)
•	
And they delight in flattery all the more. The more 
absurd and obsequious the better – and the more 
powerful and egotistical the Dragon, the better. 
(Traditions)
•	
They were made by the Enemy to serve in his terrible 
wars. They are creatures of utter malice; cruelty and 
greed vie for dominance in their hearts. (Insight)
•	
Their senses are very keen, but they can be confused 
by unfamiliar smells. If you bring something they have 
not smelled before, like a rare perfume (or a Hobbit) it 
baffles them. (Stealth)
•	
Like snakes, they eat heavily when they feast, and take 
some time to sleep off a big meal. In such moods, they 
can be drowsy and vulnerable – or even lulled into a 
deeper sleep through song. (Performance)
– Part Three –
 The Shadow of his Wings
If the companions wish to make straight for Zirakinbar 
then they must plot their route and make an Embarkation 
roll as normal. However, heroes familiar with the area 
(any Dwarves, Bardings, or Men of Lake-town) know that 
the North has been resettled and can plot a route that 
takes them to the farmhouse of Ginar before having to 
stumble into the Wild.
The Last Homely House
The Company’s first lodging after leaving Erebor, if they 
want to sleep in a bed and not outdoors, is at the house 
of Ginar, a Dwarf farmer. He and his wife, Kona, were 
wandering smiths until the Mountain was reclaimed and 
they could come home. They found, however, that they had 
lost their taste for living underground, and preferred wind 
and sun to the caves and tunnels below. Ginar’s house sits 
in a most unusual valley where the Northern Dalelands, 
the Upper Marches, and the Wastes all converge.
Preparation Dice
First introduced in Wilderland Adventures (see page 
118), Preparation dice represent special advantages 
that heroes can gain in a complex battle. Each 
Preparation die is a d6 and during the battle any 
Player-hero can take and roll a Preparation die and 
add the result to any one attack roll, damage roll, 
saving throw, ability check, or add the result to their 
AC as a reaction to an attack. Each Preparation die 
can only be used once.
9

--- PAGE 75 ---
Erebor Adventures
74
Meeting Ginar
Ginar welcomes travellers, as long as they are polite — a 
DC 10 Intelligence (Traditions) check, so there is no 
need for a full audience.
•	
He has no supplies to share beyond a little food. 
If the Company are in need of stores or advice, he 
recommends the House of Brech, another two days’ 
travel north. He warns that Skarf, the Lord of Brech, 
is not the most welcoming of hosts, but he knows the 
Wastes. It is better to take the longer route via Brech 
rather than head straight for the watchtower.
•	
He asks no questions about the Company’s purpose, 
but if they give away the mission, increase the Dragon’s 
Hunt score by 1 — Ginar cannot resist gossiping. 
army of vagabonds, in the hope that one will survive.” 
She taps her chest lightly with the head of the spear. “The 
Dragon is mine. My foe. My kill. Mine.” With that, she 
stumbles to bed, dragging the spear with her. Anyone who 
disturbs her slumber gets a spear in the heart. 
Departure
The first part of the journey is a short one, from Ginar’s 
house to the small hamlet of Brech on the edge of the 
Waste, around 35 miles north of Erebor. After getting 
a warm goodbye from Skirfira, and a sullen stare from 
Greystroke, the companions depart Ginar’s farm. Skirfira 
and Greystroke do not intend to visit Brech – ignoring 
Ginar’s advice – they head due north, straight into the 
Waste. 
Setting a reasonable pace and keeping to the easier 
terrain of the Northern Dalelands, the Company can 
expect to reach Brech after two days of travel (remember 
to note the time passing, as the longer the companions 
spend travelling, the riskier the final battle becomes). If 
the companions head straight for the hamlet, there is no 
need for the journey rules yet, but if they head straight 
into the Waste they must now make an Embarkation roll.
The Other Guests
The Company are not the only guests at the farmstead 
this night; Greystroke and Skirfira are also resting here. 
Greystroke sits in the corner, running her fingers over the 
runes on the haft of her long spear and drinking heavily, 
while Skirfira talks nervously with Ginar and Kona. The 
older Dwarves do not approve of a young Dwarf-maid 
running about adventuring, and Skirfira knows better 
than to admit why she and Greystroke are travelling north.
Greystroke, when she sees the Company, is less willing to 
be circumspect. “So, Dáin is not a gambler like his cousin 
must have been. He doesn’t wager the safety of his kingdom 
on one band of rag-tag adventurers – he sends a whole 
E
E Dale
c
o
Upper Marches
n
E
E
Long
     Lake
Esgaroth
E
Erebor
E
Elven King’s
Halls
The Waste
Ginar’s House
Brech
Northern
Dalelands
There are no roads in good repair in this part of the world. 
The majority of trade from Erebor flows west and south 
and occasionally east, but directly north of the Lonely

--- PAGE 76 ---
75
Sleeping Dragons Lie
Mountain is nought but empty lands in this century. 
The Bardings that have started to rebuild the Northern 
Dalelands mainly keep to the west. Sometimes, the 
Company can follow an old Dwarf-road that once ran 
to some lost hold in the Grey Mountains, but these soon 
vanish beneath the grass, lost to the memory of mortal 
folk. 
Rumour of the Lands
Call for a Survival check from the Company’s Hunters. If 
successful, the hero spots tracks along the way, and can 
discern the following information:
•	
There are at least two other groups of travellers ahead 
of the companions on the road.
•	
One group consists of many Dwarves, a dozen or so. 
They march fast, as though eager to get ahead of their 
competitors. (see The Brothers Khuldrim on page 69)
•	
The second is a lone traveller, mounted on a horse. 
Despite this advantage, he is pacing himself for a 
difficult journey. (see Elstan on page 70)
Brech
Brech is the home of Skarf Skulson. It is a large house on 
a hill, well-fortified and surrounded by a stake-topped 
earthen mound, inhabited by Skarf, his family, and 
retainers. In his youth, he was a ne’er-do-well and bully in 
Lake-town, in the service of the old Master. Companions 
who visited Esgaroth in those days may remember Skarf 
with little fondness. He came north to look for the lost 
treasure taken by the Master, and discovered that living 
on the edge of the world with few other folk around to 
annoy him suited him just fine. He does know the Waste 
very well, and may have news of the Dragon or of the best 
route to the Watchtower – but the Company cannot expect 
a warm welcome.
It is twilight as the Company approaches Brech’s low hill. 
The wind blows from the east, out of the night, and carries 
with it the sulphurous stink of the Wastes. Lights burn in 
the hall, though, and it seems, hard as it is to believe, that 
a party is in full swing in this lonely hall!
Villainy Upon Villainy 
Some years ago, Skarf Skulson made the error of 
trespassing too close to the Watchtower, and the Dragon 
sensed him. The wyrm’s voice spoke to him out of a deep 
fissure in the ground, rumbling like an earthquake, and 
warned him that if he did not flee, he would be burnt to a 
cinder on the spot. Skarf, though a scoundrel and a thief, 
was never accounted a coward – but he had never met a 
Dragon before, and the threat of burning terrified him to 
his core. Since then, he has been a creature of the Dragon. 
When dealing with Men or even Dwarves, he is as callous 
and cruel as ever, but now he lives in constant terror of the 
Dragon’s wrath.

--- PAGE 77 ---
Erebor Adventures
76
Lord Elstan was the first to reach Brech – the old knight 
wanted to sleep in a bed one more time before crossing the 
Waste, and he assumed that any loyal subject of King Bard 
or King Dáin would offer him shelter. Skarf grudgingly let 
the knight stay, but when Elstan (forgetting the Dwarf-
king’s warning) spoke of his great quest to slay the wyrm, 
Skarf was terrified.
Then the Brothers Khuldrim arrived. The Dwarves are 
doughty warriors, and were lured by the thought of the 
hoard, but had their own doubts about fighting an actual 
Dragon. In conversation with Skarf, they learned that the 
hoard of the Watchtower, while impressive, is the tiniest 
fraction of the golden bed of Smaug the Unassessably 
Wealthy, and victory in this quest will not bring them the 
fortunes for which they hope. The two groups of villains – 
Skarf and the Dwarves – decided that it would be best for 
all concerned if the quest failed, and if the troublesome 
knight never made it to the mountain. Lord Elstan was 
already snoring in the corner, so dispatching him was easy. 
Skarf ensured the knight would not anger the Dragon, and 
the Dwarves looted Lord Elstan’s gear. 
And as they celebrate their foul deed, the companions 
come knocking on the doors.
Sinister Welcomes
“Ho there,” calls a voice, “are ye Men or Dwarves or Orcs?” 
Assuming the companions aren’t actively hostile, the look-
out – one of the sons of Skarf – tells them that they may enter 
the ring of Brech, but they must leave their weapons outside 
the hall in his care. A DC 15 Charisma (Intimidation) or 
Intelligence (Traditions) sways the young man, and he 
grudgingly allows them to keep their arms.
Inside, the hall is lit by a roaring fire. A suckling pig turns 
on a spit above the flames. There’s a strong smell of drink. 
As the companions enter, a dozen faces turn to watch 
them, and more than half those faces are hidden behind 
bushy Dwarf beards and wide bright grins. Seated in the 
place of honour at the head of the hall is an older Dwarf 
who seems less merry than the rest, and by his side is a 
small man, grey-haired, with a pock-marked face and a 
cloak of fur. The Company guesses that this is Skarf, the 
master of Brech. He leaps from his chair and comes down 
to greet them.
An Audience with Skarf
The players may assume that the purpose of this audience 
is to convince Skarf to let them stay in his hall. It’s not – 
it’s to convince Skarf that he shouldn’t allow the Dwarves 
to ambush them like Lord Elstan. If the Company convince 
Skarf that they’re not going after the Dragon, or if they 
go all the way and manage to convince him that they 
can actually slay the Dragon and free him from its thrall, 
then he will protect them from the Dwarves’ treachery. 
However, if he believes they’re going to merely anger the 
Dragon and draw it down upon him, then he’ll help the 
Dwarves murder the companions in the night.
Expectations
Skarf’s reaction to the presence of the companions will 
almost certainly be negative, unless they can prove to him 
that they are Dragon-slayers
•	
-1 if any of the companions knew him in Lake-town.
•	
-1 if there is an Elf in the Company.
•	
-2 to +1, depending on how convincing the Company 
is at claiming that the Dragon is as good as dead now 
that they’ve taken up the quest.
Avoiding Brech
Should the Company choose to avoid Brech, then the 
weather worsens as they make camp for the night. 
This region of Middle-earth rarely sees heavy 
downpours, but tonight the clouds burst across the 
Waste. The Scout may make a Survival check to 
find shelter; otherwise, the companions must either 
ask Skarf for hospitality, or else have a sleepless 
night on the edge of the Waste, and begin the second 
phase of their journey without rest. (Each hero gains 
a level of Exhaustion and must pass a Corruption 
check (DC 15 Wisdom saving throw) or gain 1 
Shadow point).
Optionally, the Company might encounter some 
of the Brothers Khuldrim carrying the bound and 
unconscious Lord Elstan out into the Waste – see 
Lord Elstan’s Grave, page 83.
9

--- PAGE 78 ---
77
Sleeping Dragons Lie
•	
+2 if they ask Skarf for advice in crossing the Waste 
— his knowledge of the local area is his only point of 
pride these days.
Interaction
The skill used for the Final Audience check depends on 
how the companions present themselves:
•	
If the Company openly state they’re going to slay the 
Dragon, they must do so with Intimidation and must 
roll with Disadvantage due to Skarf’s overwhelming 
fear of the Dragon.
•	
If they attempt to hide their intentions, they must 
use Riddle. Prompted by the Dwarves, Skarf asks 
the Company several prying questions about their 
purpose – a DC 15 Wisdom (Insight) check suggests 
that he suspects they’re going after the Dragon.
Skarf is honour-bound to give them shelter on such 
a horrible night, call for a DC 15 Wisdom (Insight) 
check again. If successful, the character notices that 
this line of conversation is exceedingly uncomfortable 
for Skarf. 
Final Audience Check
Once the Company have made their gambit, have the 
speaker make a Final Audience check.
Failure. Skarf decides that he’s willing to let them die. He 
offers them food and drink for the evening, a bed for the 
night, and to speed them on their way before the dawn. 
See Attack By Night, below, for what happens instead.
Success by 0-1. Skarf declares that his house is full, 
and he can’t take in every vagabond who shows up on 
his doorstep. The Brothers Khuldrim were there first, so 
the companions should go! A successful DC 10 Wisdom 
(Insight) check suggests that Skarf is deliberately trying 
to drive the companions away. Immediately, one of the 
Dwarves jumps up and says that the Brothers will make 
room, that they don’t mind getting cozy with such heroes 
as these Dragon-slayers must be! If the Company press 
to stay, Skarf shrugs and pretends to be persuaded by 
the Dwarves (in which case, run Attack by Night when 
the time comes). If they leave, he sends a warning to the 
Dragon about the danger – see Slipping Out, below.
Success by 2-3. Skarf is torn. He knows that the 
safest thing to do is to kill the Player-heroes, but he 
can’t quite bring himself to do it – they’ve woken some 
nobler impulse in him. He allows them to stay, but gets 
drunker and drunker as the night goes on. He’ll even 
point them to some of the clues in Something Amiss, 
below. For example, he might ask them if they want to 
buy a horse, or start singing a song about Lord Elstan’s 
exploits.
Success by 4-5. Skarf realises that he has made a terrible 
mistake in serving the Dragon, and compounded it by 
allying with the Dwarves. He allows the Company to stay, 
but during the evening, he takes the highest-Wisdom 
companion aside and confides in them, admitting that he 
conspired with the Dwarves to murder Lord Elstan. Now, 
he and his family are at risk – will the companions save 
Brech from his villainous guests?
•	
If the Company ask for shelter and lodging with 
Traditions, then Skarf says he will consider letting 
them stay, but as they can plainly see, he is hosting a 
company of Dwarven heroes, the Brothers Khuldrim, 
and finding a spare bed may be difficult!
•	
If any of the Company mention the customs of 
hospitality, or suggest that as a good Man of Dale,

--- PAGE 79 ---
Erebor Adventures
78
Success by 6+. Skarf is driven mad with guilt! The brave 
or wise words of the Company have shown him the error 
of his ways, and only blood can wash away blood! If he 
acts now, Elstan might yet be saved. He leaps up, shouting 
that the Dwarves are murderers, and dashes Khuldri’s 
skull open on the hearth! The Dwarves immediately stab 
Skarf to death, but his sacrifice gives the companions time 
to grab their weapons.
Something Amiss
In between feasting and talking with the Dwarves, the 
companions may notice the following clues that something 
is amiss with a successful check (or better yet, an 
appropriate trait invocation; traits are perfect for picking 
up on subtle clues without rolling. You’re Suspicious by 
nature, so you’re the first to notice that something isn’t 
quite right...). The Loremaster doesn’t need to include all 
of these clues – give each companion one opportunity to 
realise the danger. 
•	
Perception: There’s plenty of ale, but the Brothers 
Khuldrim aren’t drinking heavily. They’re making a 
big show of being drunk, but they’re just sipping their 
drinks as if biding their time.
•	
Investigation: You spot one of the serving-girls 
scrubbing away at a reddish stain on the floorboards. 
It looks like spilled blood.
•	
Survival: There are more travelling packs stacked by 
the wall than there are Dwarves in the hall. Where are 
the rest?
•	
Lore: One of the Dwarves is eating from a fine silver 
plate that bears the arms of Dale. Where did he get 
such a treasure? You recall such items being given as 
gifts by King Bard to his trusted knights.
•	
Performance: Two of the Dwarves are humming a 
song as they wash their weary feet. It’s the Lay of Elstan, 
a popular song in Dale describing the heroic deeds of 
Lord Elstan. They grin cruelly when the song ends.
•	
Animal Handling: There’s a horse in the stables at 
the back of the Ring of Brech. Unlike the other animals 
there, this is clearly a fine war-horse fit for a tall 
knight.
•	
Insight: Skarf’s daughters and servants seem 
nervous and fearful around the Dwarves.
Slipping Out
If the Company leave before the Dwarves can 
waylay them, then Skarf reports the news to the 
Dragon. Raise Dragon Awareness by 2, or by 4 if 
the Company openly admitted their intent to slay the 
monster.
Attack By Night
If the companions do not become suspicious, and actually 
sleep in the hall, then the Dwarves attack them at night. 
One companion, chosen at random, may make an DC 
13 Wisdom (Perception) check to wake up in time; if 
the hero succeeds by 5 or more, they may alert one other 
companion; or, if they roll a natural 20, two others. In 
addition, anyone with a suitable trait (like Wary or Quick 
of Hearing) may invoke it to make a Perception check as 
well. Companions who wake in time may fight normally 
– although they’re not wearing their armour, and their 
main weapons are likely stored outside the hall. Sleeping 
companions are Unconscious until attacked or a creature 
takes an action to wake the hero.
The Battle of Brech
There are two Dwarves per companion. Skarf’s kin may 
take part in the battle, but are easily defeated. If they fight 
against the heroes they apply Disadvantage to the hero’s 
attack rolls for the first two rounds of combat, if they fight 
for the Company then they earn Advantage for each hero’s 
attack rolls for the first two rounds. Skarf himself will join 
the combat if he’s still alive, siding with his family.
Possible Complications in the Battle
The following events can be employed to enliven the fight.
•	
The Burning Hall: The Dwarves set the roof of the 
hall on fire. For the rest of the battle, the first time a 
combatant rolls a natural 1 on an attack roll, it takes 
1d6 bludgeoning damage from the collapsing structure. 
The next time it’s 2d6 fire damage, then 3d6 bludgeoning 
damage and so on. Only a fool fights in a burning house. 
•	
The Laughter of Dragons: The storm breaks over 
Brech. Thunder and lightning crash overhead. If a 
companion rolls a natural 20, the skies flash as if in

--- PAGE 80 ---
79
Sleeping Dragons Lie
answer, and the enemies have Disadvantage on their 
attack rolls for the remainder of the round.
•	
Out of the Frying Pan: One of Skarf’s daughters 
throws a pan full of sizzling bacon fat into the face of 
a foe (either a companion or a Dwarf). The victim of 
this attack is Blinded and takes 1 point of fire damage 
at the start of each of their turns until they spend their 
action wiping the fat away. 
Dwarven Assassin
Swiftly do the hearts of the Dwarves turn dark and cold.
After The Battle
If Skarf lives, he may be convinced to tell the companions 
what really happened at Brech, and begs the Company to 
go after Lord Elstan. Even if killed, he might confess the 
knight’s murder with his dying breath. 
Should the companions defeat the Brothers Khuldrim, they 
may obtain fresh supplies and guidance at Brech for the 
second part of their journey; this aid provides Advantage 
on any checks made for their first Journey Event. 
The Lost Knight
Searching the Dwarves’ belongings – or questioning 
survivors after the battle – confirms that the Dwarves 
Skarf, Lord of Brech
Medium Human
STR 
17 (+3)
DEX 
13 (+1)
CON 
13 (+1)
INT 
13 (+1)
WIS 
11 (+0)
CHA 
14 (+2)
Armour Class 13 (Hide)
Hit Points 44 (8d8+ 8)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Deception +4, Insight +2, Perception +2
Senses passive Perception 12
Languages Westron
Challenge 2 (450 XP))
Broken Blades (1/day). Skarf may invoke this ability 
as a bonus action. He automatically scores a critical hit 
with all attacks this round. Afterwards, his weapon is 
destroyed..
Actions
Multiattack. Skarf makes two attacks with his Great 
Axe.
Great Axe. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 9 (1d12 + 3) slashing damage.
Skarf, Lord of Brech
Medium Human
STR 
17 (+3)
DEX 
13 (+1)
CON 
13 (+1)
INT 
13 (+1)
WIS 
11 (+0)
CHA 
14 (+2)
Armour Class 13 (Hide)
Hit Points 44 (8d8+ 8)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Deception +4, Insight +2, Perception +2
Senses passive Perception 12
Languages Westron
Challenge 2 (450 XP))
Broken Blades (1/day). Skarf may invoke this ability 
as a bonus action. He automatically scores a critical hit 
with all attacks this round. Afterwards, his weapon is 
destroyed..
Actions
Multiattack. Skarf makes two attacks with his Great 
Axe.
Great Axe. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 9 (1d12 + 3) slashing damage.
Dwarven Assassin
Medium Dwarf
STR 
18 (+4)
DEX 
15 (+2)
CON 
20 (+5)
INT 
10 (+0)
WIS 
8 (-1)
CHA 
11 (+0)
Armour Class 12 (or 16 if allowed to don their hauberks)
Hit Points 66 (7d8 + 35)
Speed 25 ft
Skills Riddle +2, Stealth +4
Senses passive Perception 10, night vision
Languages Khuzdûl, Westron
Challenge 3 (700 XP)
Khazâd ai-mênu! If the Assassin’s attack misses, they 
may use their bonus action to make another attack 
against the same target.
Pack Tactics. The Assassin has Advantage on an attack 
roll against a creature if at least one of the Assassin’s 
allies is within 5 feet of the creature and that ally isn’t 
Incapacitated.is within 5 feet of the creature and that ally 
isn’t Incapacitated.
Actions
Axe. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) slashing damage or 9 (1d10 + 4) 
slashing damage if used with two hands.
The Brothers Khuldrim
The Brothers Khuldri and Skuldri were renowned 
heroes of Erebor, but Skuldri died and Khuldri fell 
in with a bad crowd of brigands. He is still of high 
standing in Erebor, but his travelling companions 
are the worst sort of Dwarves, more interested in 
treasure than great deeds – and they are willing to 
stoop to murder when it suits them.
9

--- PAGE 81 ---
PART FOUR ACROSS THE NEW DESOLATION
Erebor Adventures
80
attacked Lord Elstan. Notably, one of the Dwarves has the 
Aegis of Dale hidden in a sack. 
After knocking Elstan unconscious, three of the Dwarves 
went out into the Waste to find a place to hide the body. 
They may be encountered in Lord Elstan’s Grave, page 83. 
Following the trail of the Dwarves requires a DC 15 
Wisdom (Survival) check and brings the Company 
Across the New Desolation.
– Part Four – 
Across the New Desolation
Between the northern edge of the lands of Men, and the 
mountains of the Dragons, lies the Waste. A trackless, 
uninhabitable, bitter region of broken stone and dust. 
Crossing the Waste takes at least a week, at a Peril Rating 
of 4 with 1d2 + 1 Journey Events. If the companions have 
not yet made an Embarkation Roll, they must do so now. 
The following Events, Meetings, and Perils can be used in 
place of normal Journey Events (alternating between them). 
However, they may delay the Company further, making the 
final battle with the Dragon even more dangerous. It is not 
required to run all of the following entries.
The Aegis of Dale
The Dwarves of Erebor made this shield for an 
ancient Lord of Dale in the first days of that realm. 
Chased in mithril and enchanted with potent runes, 
the companions of Thorin Oakenshield recovered the 
shield from the hoard of Smaug, and gifted it back 
to King Bard. It is part of the crown jewels of Dale, 
but King Bard allows one of his champions to carry 
it. 
Type: Great Shield
Craftsmanship: Dwarven
Banes: N/A
Qualities: 
1  –  Reinforced: Add +1 to AC bonus..
2  –  Runes of Resilience: The wielder gains 
Advantage on death saving throws. 
3  –  Runes of Fortitude: A custom enchantment, 
these runes allow the wielder to use a bonus action to 
gain 10 temporary hit points.
9
E Dale
E
Erebor
The Waste
o
Upper Marches
n
E Ginar’s House
E Brech
Northern
Dalelands
c
E Zirakinbar
Events 
The following paragraphs describe potential Journey 
Events for the trip through the Wastes. All the episodes 
described use special rules, and thus are not formatted in 
the usual way for Journey Events. Certain events focus on 
extraordinary challenges, which have a fixed DC outside 
of the usual range.
Maggots (Hunter)
Somehow, the Company’s food supplies become infested 
with huge slimy maggots that are native to this part of the 
world. Very little is salvageable – and worse, there is little 
game to be caught in the Waste. The heroes must choose 
one of the following two options:

--- PAGE 82 ---
81
Sleeping Dragons Lie 
•	
Press on towards the watchtower. All Hunters must 
make a DC 20 Wisdom (Survival) check. If no-one 
succeeds, each companion gains a level of Exhaustion.
•	
Turn south, where there is better prospect of finding 
food. This costs the Company 1d4 + 1 days, but the 
Survival check is only DC 13. 
No Way Forward (Scout)
It should be easy to find a way to the Watchtower – all 
the companions need to do is keep walking towards the 
burning mountain on the horizon. However, as Frodo 
and Sam discovered in the Emyn Muil, just knowing 
where you’re going doesn’t mean you can see a route to 
get there. The Company encounter a broken landscape 
of jagged rocks, blind canyons, and sudden steep cliffs. 
They cannot move forward until their Scouts succeed at an 
Investigation check. Each attempt costs a day.
Raging River (Guide)
The Guide’s route goes along the bank of a dry valley – or 
what’s usually a dry valley. The storms of recent days have 
turned the gulch into a torrent of icy black water, mixed 
with silt and ash. The Guide may choose to turn back and 
find another route (in which case this counts as No Way 
Forward) or risk pressing on by making a DC 20 Wisdom 
(Survival) check. If the check fails, one of the companions 
falls into the river when the bank collapses and is swept 
away. The Company must search for their missing friend – 
see Lost in the Wastes, page 85.
Walking Stones (Look-Out)
Those stones... were they always there? At twilight, it 
seems to the Look-out that piles of stones are creeping 
closer and closer to the Company. Every time they look, 
the rocks appear nearer and nearer. The hero may rouse 
the Company and get them to move camp (everyone gains 
a level of Exhaustion), or ignore the impossible walking 
stones (in which case the Loremaster should roll a d6: on 
4-6, one of the companions finds themselves buried by the 
stones. If they are dug out of this sudden cairn, they gain 
2 Shadow points and a level of Exhaustion.
Dreams of Fire (Any Companion)
The character is troubled by dreams of being burnt to 
death by Dragon-fire. On waking, the character must make 
a Corruption check (a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw). If 
the saving throw fails, the character gains 1 Shadow point 
immediately, and another Shadow point whenever they 
are attacked by a Dragon’s breath weapon or sees another 
companion perish in flames.
Scorpion in the Bed (Any Companion)
One of the venomous creatures of the Waste crawls into 
the character’s sleeping roll. The character is allowed a 
Perception check to detect the danger; otherwise, the 
companion is Poisoned until they take a long rest. 
Ash Cloud (All) 
A choking storm of ash and dust blows down without 
warning from the north, reducing visibility to next to 
nothing. All the Companions need to make a DC 10 
Intelligence saving throw or be separated. All those who 
succeed stay together; those who fail wander off and find 
themselves in a labyrinth of echoing canyons. See Lost in 
the Wastes, page 85.
Seen By Orcs
Orc scouts spot the Company at a distance. Raise the 
Dragon Awareness by 1d6.
Choking Thirst (All)
The unseasonable heat and unutterable dryness of the 
dust means the companions go through their water 
supplies faster than they should. Each member of the 
Company must choose:
•	
Ration their water and go slower, adding another 
three days and another Journey Event to their trek.
•	
Search for drinkable water on the way – this requires 
a DC 20 Intelligence (Investigation) check from the 
Company’s Scout. If successful, the Scout finds water. 
Otherwise, the Company gains a level of Exhaustion.
Meetings
The following scenes don’t pose an immediate threat to 
the Company, although few things in the Waste can truly 
said to be friendly.
Birds in an Empty Sky
The presence of the Dragon has begun a new desolation 
on the Waste. As the wyrm’s fires grow hotter, they burn 
the living land, until nothing good can live there – not 
9

--- PAGE 83 ---
Erebor Adventures
82
that much good lived here before the Dragon, anyway. 
Now, though, even the few animals who lived in or passed 
through the Wastes are fleeing. The Company spot a flight 
of birds circling down to the east. Anyone proficient at 
Nature or Survival guesses they’re in search of drinkable 
water. Following the birds costs a day’s travel time, but 
brings the Company to a small pool of fresh water.
•	
A Hunter can easily — a DC 10 Wisdom (Survival) 
check — trap a few birds here to eat, and the water is 
good to drink.
•	
If the Company can communicate with birds (Raven of 
the Mountain, The Speakers, a blessing from Beorn, 
or some other gift), then the birds can give the same 
advice as Witherfinger, below.
 
Witherfinger
A dead – well, mostly dead – tree, withered and bare 
stands rooted in the dusty banks of a dry river valley. 
It’s the only tree for miles around, not that it’s much of a 
tree. Hunched and thin, leafless and twisted, gnawed by 
worms, but still it cheers the spirit. Whatever else, it has 
endured in the midst of the desolation.
Companions who have played through The Watch on 
the Heath in Wilderland Adventures recognise the ‘tree’ 
as the mysterious Witherfinger. For those encountering 
her for the first time, Witherfinger is... perhaps a tree 
that has grown wakeful, or a woman grown tree-like, or 
something else entirely. A few years ago, she remembered 
how to speak in the manner of two-legged things, but her 
wanderings in the wastes have sapped her spirit, and now 
she can communicate only in dreams. 
Should a character take an axe to Witherfinger’s hoary 
hide, she hurls a cloud of dust and small stones at the 
Company, Blinding them all for a moment. When their 
vision clears, she is gone. 
However, should a character rest amid Witherfinger’s 
roots, they find a comfortable bed of moss there to lie 
upon. Resting there restores 2d8 + 4 hit points, or recovers 
a level of Exhaustion (companion’s choice). In addition, 
Witherfinger whispers in the companion’s dreams. In 
the dream, the companion hears the crotchety voice of a 
nervous, somewhat rambling, but kindly old woman. She 
might say:
•	
“Oh and oh. Dark-hearted Dwarves they are, 
murderous and greedy. They kidnapped that poor 
old man and threw him down a hole, and stole all 
his shiny armour. Not fair, not fair at all. Will no-one 
help him?” The companion sees Lord Elstan (see page 
83) in the pit where the Dwarves threw him. Taking a 
detour to aid Lord Elstan costs a day.

--- PAGE 84 ---
83
Sleeping Dragons Lie
•	
“Orcs! I hate Orcs! Nasty mean axe-y brutes. Never 
good for no-one. I watched ‘em throw the big one out, 
drove him away with fire, but he’s worse than any of 
them. He wanted to go south, you know. South, to 
the dark land. To His land. Mordor.” The companion 
glimpses Ukghash (page see The Burnt Orc below) 
making his way across the ravines. 
•	
“Them traitors! Never ought good came out of a cold 
Dwarf’s heart! Lying in wait, they are, with murder 
in mind! Beware ‘em!” The companion has a vision 
of the Dwarf Ambush (page 85), if that is still a 
possibility. This warning gives the heroes Advantage 
on the Dexterity check for initiative. 
•	
If any of the companions fall victim to The Haunted 
Lake (page 85), then Witherfinger can help the other 
heroes deal with the spirit. “They’re down there, in the 
waters. Swim down and fetch ‘em up before they’re 
stuck down there forever. Here, I’ll aid thee.” Her 
assistance gives the heroes Advantage on any ability 
checks made in the lake.
Lord Elstan’s Grave
After the Brothers Khuldrim stabbed Lord Elstan in his 
sleep at Brech, in the House of Skarf, two of them carried 
him out into the Waste, planning to dump his body in a 
convenient ditch and return to their beds. However, Elstan 
managed to wrest himself free of their clutches and ran off 
into the night. The two Dwarves pursued, and after many 
misadventures in the Waste they eventually caught up 
with the old knight, stabbed him again for good measure, 
and then threw him in a hole. The two villainous Dwarves 
are still wandering the Waste (and may be encountered in 
Dwarf Ambush, page 85). 
Lord Elstan, twice-stabbed and his ankle twisted, 
now lies at the bottom of a steep-sided sinkhole. The 
Company may find him by following his trail with DC 
15 Wisdom (Survival) check, or be guided here by a 
dream or portent – or maybe they just hear his weak 
calls for help. 
Rescuing the knight requires a DC 13 Strength (Athletics) 
check to climb down; failure means the companion takes 
3 (1d6) slashing damage from scrapes and cuts. “Bless 
you, youngsters. Those wretched Dwarves attacked me as 
I slept, and stole my sword and shield. Witless, I wandered 
in the Waste, until they came at me again and imprisoned 
me here. They are in league with the Dragon, I guess, and 
mean to stop any of us from reaching the Watchtower. I do 
not know if I can make it – go on without me!”
Any healing attempt fixes Elstan’s ankle, but his two knife-
wounds are infected and likely mortal. Lord Elstan knows 
this, but makes light of it. “Oh, I have had worse. Why, 
at the Battle of Five Armies, this big Cave-Troll caught me 
by the legs and lifted me up to gnaw on me like a dog 
with a beef-bone! I had my dagger to hand, though, and 
knew what to do! One cut across the nose, to startle him, 
and then I drove the blade elbow-deep into his eye socket! 
Better’n than sunlight for killing a troll you know! But aye, 
I think this is my last quest for King Bard. I’ll go home and 
rest. What was it the funny little man said – live happily to 
the end of my days. However long they may be.”
If the companions restore 20 or more hit points, or use 
a feature or virtue like Staunching Song or the like, Lord 
Elstan’s wounds are cured. 
If the Company ask Elstan to accompany them, the old 
man slows them down and is too weak to fight. They travel 
at only half their normal speed. However, his company 
cheers them and he is full of wisdom and good advice 
– each member of the Company may recover a level of 
Exhaustion and makes ability checks with Advantage, 
thanks to Lord Elstan’s tutelage.
If they escort Elstan to safety at the edge of the Waste, it 
takes one day there and one day to return. They gain no 
benefit from doing so, but do not accrue Shadow. If the 
companions abandon Elstan or let the old man stumble 
homewards alone, they each gain 2 Shadow points.
The Burnt Orc
A band of Orcs serve the Dragon (see Battling the Orcs, 
page 88). Once, this band followed another chieftain, 
Ukghash. When Sauron declared in Mordor, in the Year 
2951, Ukghash heard the call of the Dark Lord. At the 
time, the Orcs dwelt in caves in the Grey Mountains, but 
Ukghash drove and dragged and harried them south and 
east, always south and east, towards the Dark Tower. 
When the Orcs came close to the Watchtower, one of 
Ukghash’s lieutenants, a treacherous Orc named Haglach

--- PAGE 85 ---
Erebor Adventures
84
rebelled against the chieftain and offered the tribe’s 
loyalty to the Dragon. Why sneak past the watchful men 
of Dale and the Dwarves of the Lonely Mountain, or brave 
the darkness of the Spider-thronged forest, when they 
could serve the Dragon and eat roasted flesh every night!
Ukghash quarrelled with Haglach, until the Dragon 
intervened with a fiery blast. Ukghash fled the Dragon’s 
wrath, and ever since has roamed the Waste, hoping 
to reclaim his place at the head of the tribe. If he could 
murder Haglach, or if the Dragon went away south... 
or if the Dragon died, that would work too... Ukghash, 
therefore, can be a most unlikely ally for the Company. 
“I am Ukghash, burnt-Orc. You come to kill the Dragon. I want 
to see him dead, too. We have common cause, you and I.”
Ukghash offers to guide the Company to the Watchtower. 
He claims he can get them past Haglach’s patrols, bringing 
them down unseen paths to the Dragon’s very doorstep. 
He won’t murder them in their sleep, or bring them into a 
trap. This he swears in the name of the Dark Lord, in the 
name of Sauron (and anyone with Orc-lore or proficient 
in Shadow-lore knows that the Enemy does not permit 
his true name to be spoken aloud, even by his servants. 
For an Orc, swearing by that name is no small matter, 
but it is still an oath founded on treachery and cruelty. In 
return, he wants them to swear three oaths, in the name of 
whatever powers they honour.
•	
First, that they will do Ukghash no harm while they 
are in the Wastes.
•	
Second, they will slay the Dragon and Haglach too, 
but not attack the rest of the Orcs. “Unless the fools 
throw themselves on your blades, of course – I’ll not 
gainsay you a kill.”
•	
Third, Ukghash gets a fair share of the treasure hoard, 
to do with as he will. 
A DC 13 Wisdom (Insight) check indicates that Ukghash 
might indeed hate someone more than the companions. 
Still, willingly travelling with a creature of the Enemy is 
worth 1 Shadow point for each member of the Company. 
The companions spot the lone Orc as they travel across the 
Wastes. His face and left arm are still scarred with burns, 
making him unusually ugly, even for an Orc. He stands 
taller than most of his kind, and there is a dangerous light 
in his eyes. The Dark Lord calls him, even now; he is not 
craven, and can endure sunlight better than most.
Ukghash knows the region well – and he knows that a 
company of armed adventurers travelling towards the 
Watchtower can only have one purpose. He meets the 
Company at twilight in a region of broken rocks and narrow 
ravines, where he can easily vanish if the encounter turns 
hostile. If the Company move to attack, he turns and flees; 
he can only be caught with a successful DC 20 Wisdom 
(Survival) check. He speaks the Common tongue. 
Playing Ukghash
You are not a "good Orc". In fact, you’re worse than 
any of the others in the tribe – you are a fanatical 
servant of Sauron, and hear his dread voice more 
clearly than your kinfolk.
You know that you are making a dangerous gamble 
by putting yourself in league with Tarks and stunted 
Dwarves. They will not believe you are their friend, 
so you must instead show them you are very very 
useful, so they will not attack you.
When Haglach is dead, then you kill them. Not 
before. Not before.

--- PAGE 86 ---
85
Sleeping Dragons Lie
If the companions reject Ukghash, but fail to track him 
down and slay him, he runs back to the Dragon and curries 
favour by warning of the Company’s approach. Roll a 
d10 and add the result to the Dragon Awareness total, 
counting ‘10’ as zero (the irritated Dragon incinerates 
Ukghash without listening to him). Otherwise, the Dragon 
forgives Ukghash and takes the Orc back into his service; 
add Ukghash to the forces ranged against the Company in 
Battling the Orcs, page 88. 
Ukghash is a Great Orc (see Loremaster’s Guide, page 97).
Perils
The following threats might be applied as the Loremaster 
deems appropriate.
Lost in the Wastes
The Waste is especially perilous this time of year. The 
Guide must make a DC 20 Wisdom (Survival) check to 
find the right route through the broken lands. The hero has 
Advantage on this check if the Company received advice 
from Skarf (page 73) or have guidance from Ukghash. 
If the Guide fails, the Company is lost: each Scout must 
make DC 20 Intelligence (Investigation) checks until 
one of them finds a way forward. Each set of checks costs 
one day.
On a failure with a natural 1, that companion becomes 
separated from the rest of the group and gets lost. A 
lost companion may be found with a successful DC 20 
Wisdom (Survival); each set of Survival checks costs a 
day of travel.
On a natural 20 the Company discovers something useful: 
drinkable water or a good shelter for one night against the 
horrors of the Waste. All companions can recover a level 
of Exhaustion.
Dwarf Ambush
If the companions defeated the Brothers Khuldrim in the 
House of Brech, then this ambush is barely worthy of the 
name. The three Dwarves who brought Elstan into the 
Wastes attempt to waylay the Company, hoping to steal 
their food and water.
However, if the Company did not face the Brothers 
Khuldrim at Brech, then this is a much larger ambush. In 
this case, there are two Dwarves for each companion.
•	
In either case, the Dwarves hide in tunnels and cracks 
in the chalky ground of the waste, and wait until the 
Company pass by before emerging and attacking. 
Heroes with passive Perception 14 or higher spot 
the attackers before they strike and are not Surprised.
•	
The Dwarves use snares to entangle the Company. 
Each companion must make a DC 13 Dexterity saving 
throw or become Grappled (Escape DC 13). Surprised 
heroes have Disadvantage on the saving throw. A 
hero can spend an action to free a companion from 
a snare.
The Haunted Lake
The companions come across a brown lake of stagnant 
and foul water. Deaths-head midges rise from its surface 
as they approach. All the adventurers feel a sudden 
compulsion to drink the waters. Each companion can 
make a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw to resist the 
compulsion. Heroes with an appropriate trait like Wary 
or Stubborn gain Advantage on the saving throw. 
Those who do drink instantly fall into an enchanted 
slumber and become Paralysed. A character who didn’t 
drink and is proficient with Shadow-Lore or has a 
suitable trait guesses that there is an evil spirit dwelling in 
the lake that has ensorcelled the Company.
A Scholar can use Hands of a Healer to remove the 
paralysis; a hero can make a DC 15 Strength (Athletics) 
check to carry or drag a Paralysed companion away from 
the lake. Small heroes have Disadvantage on this check 
if they’re attempting to move a Medium size companion. 
The victim quickly falls back to sleep unless brought away 
from the lake. It takes hours to coax or drag a victim away 
from the lake; each set of rescue attempts by wakeful 
companions costs a day. Characters freed from the lake’s 
enchantment cannot help rescue others – only those who 
initially resisted are immune. Others fall back asleep 
immediately if they come close to the lake.
A companion daring the water receives a vision of a 
grand feast in the manner of the legends of older days. 
In the vision, a hooded skeletal figure sits at the head of 
9

--- PAGE 87 ---
PART FIVE APPROACHING THE WATCHTOWER
Erebor Adventures
86
the feast-table in the bottom of the lake, surrounded by 
the spirit-forms of the sleepers. This shadow – a Lake-
wight, perhaps – serves the sleepers food and drink, but 
the more they eat, the weaker and more emaciated their 
dream-selves become. 
Swimming to the bottom of the lake requires a DC 15 
Strength (Athletics) check; failure means the character 
takes 4 (1d8) necrotic damage and the character’s 
maximum hit points are reduced by the same amount. 
A hero must finish a long rest to restore their original 
maximum hit points.
Once at the bottom of the lake, the swimmer can make a 
DC 10 Charisma check to free a companion’s spirit from 
the spell. If the hero fails with a natural 1, the swimmer is 
caught by the evil spell. The swimmer’s body floats back 
to the surface, while the swimmer’s spirit joins the feast 
below.
If by terrible mischance, the whole Company falls victim 
to the lake, then perhaps they might be rescued by 
Witherfinger (page 82) or Ukghash (page 83). 
Once the companions escape the enchantment, they may 
dredge the mud at the bottom of the lake if they wish. 
Doing so costs a day, but the Company discovers treasure 
worth 10g in the form of old coins and jewels amid the 
many, many bones that lie there. It seems evil men used 
the lake as a ritual site for sacrifices in past ages.
– Part Five – 
Approaching the Watchtower
A band of Orcs under the leadership of Haglach serves 
the Dragon. The Orcs came from the north-west, from the 
Grey Mountains, but now dwell in the caves and tunnels 
along a gorge that runs between the edge of the Waste 
and the peak of Zirakinbar, the Watchtower. In years past, 
the gorge caves were frozen and home to Snow-trolls and 
lesser Cold-worms, but the growing heat of the Dragon 
has thawed them out. Now, they are mud-choked pits of 
slime, full of secret hiding places and uncertain footing, 
making them a perfect lair for Orcs. The gorge is the only 
easy route through the hills.
While the Company cannot see the Orcs at this distance, 
by night it’s clear that the gorge is inhabited, for at 
sundown the Orcs light huge bonfires and chant the name 
of the Dragon, as if stoking his flames. Every day that the 
Company draws nearer the pass, the chants get louder 
and the air grows hotter, as though they are walking into 
a furnace. If he is with the Company, Uzghash grudgingly 
warns them of the Orc encampment’s guards and 
watchers.

--- PAGE 88 ---
87
Sleeping Dragons Lie
Orc-Sentries
Orc-sentries watch the approaches to the Watchtower 
from perches on the hillsides and tors that dot the 
northern wastes. The lands around are still and empty, 
so any movement can be seen from a long distance away. 
Fortunately, a maze of gullies and defiles offers cover, so 
the companions can try to advance without being seeing. 
Orcs have good night-vision, so there’s no advantage to 
trying the crossing by dark – and by day, sentries in caves 
high on the hillside take over, staring into the sunlight 
until their eyes bleed.
 
Before crossing the maze, the Company’s Scout can 
range ahead and try to find the best route with a DC 15 
Intelligence (Investigation) check. If the check fails, the 
Scout risks being spotted and must succeed on a DC 13 
Dexterity (Stealth) check to hide in time. 
A successful Investigation check by the Scout gives the 
companions Advantage on the Stealth checks required to 
cross the maze. The Company must succeed on three DC 
13 Dexterity (Stealth) group checks. If a group check is 
failed, the Orcs spot the Company.
Spotted!
If the Company is spotted, there’s enough time for one 
round’s worth of attacks against the Orc Guard lookout 
(page 104 of the Loremaster’s Guide). If the companions 
fail to slay the Orc, the alarm is raised. The Company may 
retreat and try to hide in the Wastes, or press on.
If they press on, then they’re going to be Battling The Orcs 
(see below) as Orcs swarm out of holes and tunnels in the 
valley and close in on the travellers.
If they retreat, it costs a day and increases the Dragon’s 
Hunt score by +4, but they can attempt the crossing again 
the next day.
If the Company reaches the hills on the edge of the Heath, 
another choice lies before them. Do they take the shorter 
route through the Orc-infested gorge, or the longer, harder but 
possibly safer route through the mountains on either side?
The Mountain Route
At any time, the mountain route would be perilous. The 
hills that mark the border between the Waste and the 
Withered Heath are steep and rocky, and every route 
goes up sheer cliffs or over mounds of loose scree. If the 
Company were here before, they remember the biting cold 
winds that howled around the slopes, or the icy rime on 
the rocks. 
Now, though, things are even worse, for the Dragon’s heat 
has brought an unexpected and unwelcome false spring 
to the region. The cliffs glisten like a poisoned blade in 
the dying sun, as ice turns to slippery slush and back 
again, and the hills slough mud in landslides like a snake 
shedding its skin. Fortunately, once the companions reach 
the top of the cliffs, they can easily hide in the scrub-
forests along the hills and avoid the Orcs – assuming, of 
course, they do reach the top of the cliffs.
Crossing via the mountain takes three days, plus another 
two to make it through the hills beyond to the Watchtower. 
The Company will experience 1d2 Journey Events with a 
Peril Rating of 5 as they cross the mountains.
Potential Journey Events
The following paragraphs describe potential events for 
the mountain route (all the episodes described use special 
rules, and thus are not formatted in the usual way).
Landslide! (Guide)
The ground begins to slip and slide beneath the Company. 
The Guide must immediately make a Survival check at 
Disadvantage as the land itself shifts underfoot. Failure 
means the companions are caught in the landslide. Each 
hero must make a Dexterity saving throw, taking 2d8 
bludgeoning damage and gaining a level of Exhaustion on 
a failure or 1d8 bludgeoning damage on a success. Worse, 
the path is now blocked, costing the Company a day’s travel.
The Cliff Path (Scout)
The only way forward is to climb a sheer cliff. The Scout 
goes first, with a rope. Climbing the cliff requires three 
Athletics checks. Each success awards the Scout 10 feet 
of vertical progress, but a failure represents a fall at the 
accumulated height. For example, a failed first check is a 
fall of 10 feet, a failure on the second is a fall of 20 feet and a 
7
9

--- PAGE 89 ---
Erebor Adventures
88
failed third check is a 30-foot fall. Once the Scout gains the 
summit, the remainder of the Company can easily follow 
the guide-rope up. Alternatively, a day’s exploration and 
a successful Investigation check at Disadvantage finds 
another route hidden amidst the sheer slopes. 
Warg-Tracks (Hunter)
The Hunter notices the traces of a Warg, and the prints 
suggest the beast is searching for the Company. The 
Hunter may hide the Company’s tracks with a Survival 
check; on a failure increase the Dragon’s Hunt score by 2. 
Orc Scouts (Look-Out)
Orc scouts creep abroad by night, searching the cliffs 
around the gorge. The Look-out gets an Perception check 
to notice their approach and warn the rest of the Company. 
Otherwise, the companions are spotted and the scout warn 
the other Orcs. Increase the Dragon’s Hunt score by 2. 
Dreams of Fire (Any)
The character is troubled by dreams of being burnt to 
death by Dragon-fire. On waking, the character must 
make a Corruption check (DC 15 Wisdom saving throw). 
If the saving throw fails, the character gains 1 Shadow 
point immediately, and another Shadow point whenever 
he or she is attacked by a Dragon’s breath weapon or sees 
another companion perish in flames.
The Dragon Is Here! (All)
The Dragon goes hunting, looking for one of the hardy 
wild goats or maybe a fat Snow-troll to eat. As it circles, 
though, it smells an unfamiliar scent on the air – 
adventurers! Raise the Dragon’s Hunt score by 2.
The Gorge Route
The gorge route is faster, but requires sneaking past a host 
of Orcs. There are two ways for the Company to attempt 
this feat:
By Brightest Day
Creatures of the Enemy cannot abide sunlight – and even 
this far north, even with clouds of ash or snow choking the 
sky, the noonday sun is too bright for the Orcs to tolerate, 
so they must retreat into their caves. The Company could 
race across the valley at noon, hastening towards the 
Withered Heath as fast as they can. The downside, of 
course, is that they will certainly be seen and pursued 
once the sun goes down, and then the companions will be 
caught between the Orcs and the Dragon.
If the companions choose this plan, they can cross the 
valley and be at Zirakinbar in two days – but they will 
have the Orc-host on their heels! Raise the Dragon’s Hunt 
score by 6, and there’s no time to spare for subtlety once 
they reach the Watchtower – the Company’s only hope is 
to slay the Dragon before the Orcs arrive!
By Darkest Night
Each night, the Orcs celebrate the coming doom of the north 
as their master’s fire grows. The Company can try sneaking 
through as the Orcs are distracted by the bonfires. This has its 
virtues – there’s a chance that the Company can get through 
without being seen – and its perils, in that if the companions 
are spotted, the whole Orc-host will be upon them. 
It all comes down to one group DC 20 Dexterity (Stealth) 
check. Succeed, and the Company gets through the gorge 
undetected. Fail, and they must cut their way through.
Battling the Orcs
Haglach’s Orc tribe numbers more than five hundred. 
Virtually all of them are lesser Misty Mountains Orcs and 
Goblins, but they are no less dangerous for that. If the 
Company engage with a patrol, then assume there’s one 
Orc-Soldier and two Goblin Archers per companion, plus 
an Orc Guard in command. If Haglach is present, he is a 
Great Orc.
If the Company are unlucky enough to take the whole tribe 
on, then each wave consists of two Orc-Soldiers and three 
Archers per companion.  A new wave joins the battle every 
other round.
A Red Day, A Sword Day, To Die on
Optionally, if Lord Elstan is with the Company, he might 
volunteer to stand rearguard in the gorge against the Orc-
host. There are narrow places where one heroic old man, 
wounded or no, could hold the pass against five hundred 
for a time. 
Ambushing the Orcs
Every few days, Haglach and a few of his advisors travel 
north to the Watchtower to offer obeisance to the Dragon. 
If the companions manage to sneak past the Orcs without 
9

--- PAGE 90 ---
PART SIX BY STEALTH AND GUILE
89
Sleeping Dragons Lie
being spotted, they can ambush Haglach and his Orc 
Guards (two per companion). Slaying Haglach throws 
the Orc tribe into confusion (and allows Ukghash to take 
over again, if he is nearby). Furthermore, the Company 
could take the Orc-garb and disguise themselves as Orcs, 
allowing them to sneak up close to the Dragon. 
– Part Six – 
By Stealth and Guile
Once, the Watchtower of Zirakinbar was a wonder to 
behold. The hill was a hollow one, riven by many narrow 
clefts and tunnels, and of them the Dwarves of yore 
made an instrument, a harp of air and stone that could 
be played by opening or shutting doors and valves. They 
made the mountains sing. 
The Dragon smashed all that. Nothing remains of the upper 
levels of the Watchtower now. The Chamber of Winds and 
Raven’s Perch are both nothing but rubble. Smoke and 
sulphurous fumes rise from the mountain’s shattered crown. 
A Spear’s Throw
As the companions approach the mountain, a small dusty 
shape scurries out from the shadow of a boulder. It takes 
them a moment to recognise it as Skirfira, the young Dwarven 
sage they met back in Erebor, the companion of Greystroke. 
She runs up to meet them and explains breathlessly:
“Greystroke... she wouldn’t listen... or wait. Dragon-fire...
too hot... she’s climbing up!” With that, Skirfira points at 
the side of the mountain. To the right of the road there 
is a sheer cliff that leads up to a cave mouth, a crack big 
enough for a Dragon to crawl out of (it’s the mouth of the 
Rift, location 4 on the map below). Fumes pour from the 
crack, almost hiding the shape of a lone figure scaling the 
rocks —Greystroke. 
•	
If the Company don’t act, then a few moments later 
there is a flare of red light from inside the mountain, 
and then a terrifying roar that nearly dislodges 
Greystroke. The Dragon emerges from the cave.
•	
If it’s Raenar, then he sees Greystroke and sneers. He 
starts to climb down the cliff towards her. She snaps 
at him with her spear, aiming for his eye-socket, but 
the Dragon twists and she hits his shoulder instead. 
The Dragon roars in pain so loudly the mountain 
shakes, and Greystroke loses her grip. Before she can 
fall, though, the Dragon’s head snakes out, bites her, 
and swallows her whole.
•	
If it’s Wruenele, then the Dragon flies out across the 
grey skies, heedless of the enemy behind him. He 
circles around the mountain, exulting in his flight. 
Once, twice, Greystroke raises her spear to throw 
it, but it’s clear that she doesn’t have the leverage to 
make the throw. On the third pass, she looks down for 
a moment to the valley far below, as if bidding farewell 
to Skirfira. Then she throws the spear, putting her full 
strength behind it, pushing off with her legs to give the 
throw added force. She falls to her death. The spear 
flies towards Wruenele, who lets out a blast of flame 
in alarm. The fires deflect the spear just enough, and 
it clatters to the ground beyond him.
•	
Either way, the Dragon retrieves the spear after a few 
minutes, and returns to its lair.
Saving Greystroke: Saving the hero is no easy task. The 
only options would be to attack or distract the Dragon as 
it emerges, or race up the mountainside to stop Greystroke 
before she gets too close and wakes the Dragon. Invoking 
a suitable trait (like Swift) is necessary in the latter case. 
Recovering the Spear: Grabbing the spear before the 
Dragon gets to it is a little easier, although the companion 
9

--- PAGE 91 ---
Erebor Adventures
90
must still make a Stealth check against the Dragon’s 
passive Perception to avoid being seen by the Dragon. 
Alternatively, they can steal the spear from the treasure 
hoard once the Dragon brings it back up to the Watchtower.
Skirfira’s Aid: If Greystroke dies, Skirfira is stricken 
with grief. A DC 15 Charisma (Persuasion) check 
convinces her to keep going and to mourn her friend 
later. Skirfira can give the Company any three pieces of 
lore from the Secrets of Mazarbul (page 70) or Stories of 
Dragons (page 72). Otherwise, she stumbles away south, 
as though blind.
If the heroes rescue Greystroke, then Skirfira devotes 
herself to tending to her wounded comrade. She offers 
up the above secrets freely, and advises the Company to 
make for the secret door into the Watchtower. She offers 
her axe to open the secret door. 
Greystroke’s Aid: If Greystroke survives, she grudgingly 
thanks the Company for their aid and will fight alongside 
them – her aid counts as four Preparation dice in the battle 
with the Dragon.
Not At Home
The Dragon’s movements in this part of the adventure are 
determined both directly and indirectly by the actions of 
the Player-heroes. Depending on how A Spear’s Throw 
resolved, the Dragon is either slumbering on his bed of 
treasure, or returning after having retrieved Greystroke’s 
spear.
If the Dragon knows the Player-heroes are nearby, he 
may attack or chase them. The Dragon will not normally 
walk into a trap or a disadvantageous situation, but the 
Company may be able to taunt him with an Intimidation 
check (DC 20, -2 per Hunt Episode elapsed as the Dragon 
gets more and more angry). 
If the Dragon merely suspects the presence of intruders, 
then continue to use the Dragon Awareness & Hunt rules. 
The Shadow of the Past
If your group played through all of Wilderland 
Adventures, what happened in your game? What 
was left here? Is the Chain of Thangorodrim 
somewhere in the wreckage? For that matter, does 
the foul Gibbet King lie here, poison-blasted or 
caught by his own sorcery? Did the Dragon Raenar 
perish on the slopes, or was his skull burst asunder by 
the Chamber of Winds?
This adventure assumes that the upper part of the 
Watchtower is destroyed and no sign or device of the 
Gibbet King remains.
Nameless, The Elven Spear
Type: Great Spear
Craftsmanship: Elven
Banes: Dragons 
Qualities: 
1  –  Foe-Slaying: When attacking a Dragon, 
you score a critical hit if your roll is within half 
your Proficiency Bonus (rounded up) from 20. For 
example a hero with a Proficiency Bonus of +3 scores 
a critical hit on a roll of 18, 19 or 20.
2  –  Runes of Victory:  While bearing this weapon 
you gain a +1 bonus to all saving throws. When 
you attack with this weapon, a roll of 1 becomes a 
critical hit instead of an automatic failure.
See pages 136-7 of the Loremaster’s Guide for more 
information on these Enchanted Qualities.

--- PAGE 92 ---
91
 Sleeping Dragons Lie
Locations in the Tower
1. The Road: This path winds up the steep sides of the 
mountain to the main gate of the Watchtower. It’s exposed 
to the sky (the Dragon deliberately tore away any shelter) 
so anyone travelling along the road can be seen for miles.
2. Main Gate: The main entrance to Zirakinbar. The 
Dragon is still small enough to squeeze through the gates, 
although it’s now a tight fit. 
3. Secret Entrance: The Dragon never found this 
cunningly concealed secret door. To open it, one must 
knock three times with an axe-head.
4. Rift: This huge crack in the mountain is the Dragon’s 
back door. If the Dragon is winged Wruenele, then he 
spreads his great wings to catch the cold winds howling 
from the north, and takes flight. If the Dragon is crawling 
Raenar, then he slithers down the sheer wall of the cliff 
like some hideous bat, digging his claws deep into the 
stone as he descends.
5. Great Hall: This chamber has become the Dragon’s 
lair. The room is unpleasantly hot and foul-smelling, 
with thick clouds of smoke billowing around looking for 
an exit. Even so large a creature as the Dragon is hard to 
see in here. The companions might catch glimpses of the 
beast, a burning eye there, a clawed foot there, a length 
of tail or span of wing there, but they won’t see the whole 
Dragon unless they lure it outside.
A huge stone block hangs above the main door, suspended 
by a chain with a quick-release pulley. In times past, a 
cunning Dwarven machine controlled the block, but the 
Orcs replaced this with this simple solution. The Dragon 
uses this mechanism to prevent intruders from entering 
his lair when he is out hunting – he closes the door, then 
leaves through the rift. 
6. Cellars: Empty and in danger of collapse.
7. Empty Chambers: Not marked on map. 
8. Bed of Treasure: The Dragon long ago sniffed out the 
treasure kept in the secret vault, and gathered it into a 
bed. The hoard here is rated at 400*** (if the Company 
found the secret vault during The Watch on the Heath, 
then the new hoard is a mere 200***).

--- PAGE 93 ---
Erebor Adventures
92
Entering the Watchtower
There are three routes into the tower.
•	
The main door is easily accessible, but leaves no 
possibility for stealth. If the companions go in that 
way, the Dragon knows they’re coming.
•	
Climbing up the cliff wall to the rift is much more 
dangerous (if that is the right word, when the “safer” 
path leads literally right into a Dragon’s den!) To 
climb the cliff, each adventurer must succeed on a 
DC 15 Strength (Athletics) check. Failure means 
the character slips and falls. A kind Loremaster might 
permit the adventurer to land on some jagged rocks 
20 or 30 feet below.
•	
If the heroes know the secret way in, they can sneak 
up the road until they come to a goat-path, then circle 
around the peak to the secret door. The path is narrow 
and slippery, but can be traversed with care.
Sneaking Around 
The difficulty to sneak around outside or in the lower 
level of the Watchtower is DC 15. Moving around the 
upper level is DC 17; it’s DC 19 in the great hall or bed of 
treasure. Failing a Stealth check raises the Dragon’s Hunt 
score by 2; if the Company fails the Stealth check, the 
Dragon spots the thief. If the companions are in disguise, 
then they must make a DC 15 Charisma (Deception) 
check to fool the Dragon.
No check is required to boldly approach if they met Raenar 
in the past and parted on ‘good’ terms. In such a case he 
is curious why the Company has foolishly returned to his 
supper table. 
Conversations with a Dragon
Conversing with the Dragon is an excellent way to stall 
for time, in order to get other companions into position to 
battle the foe.
Motivations & Expectations
Raenar’s personality is detailed on page 104 of the 
Lonely Mountain Region Guide. Wruenele’s is not much 
different, other than he has never experienced captivity. 
His youthful heart desires both fame and fortune instead.
9
7
9
Playing Raenar
Playing Wruenele
•	
You are old, but your heart was cold and bitter for 
many of those long centuries. A skulking Cold-worm, 
gnawing the roots of the mountains and biding your 
time. Now, with Smaug gone, you are the oldest and 
greatest of the wyrms of the North, and your spirit is 
ablaze for the first time since the Elder Days.
•	
You know, though, that there are stronger forces in the 
world than you (though none as strong as you shall be, 
if you survive). An arrow brought down Smaug, and 
rumour has reached your ears that the Necromancer 
of Dol Guldur too has been defeated. There are many, 
many enemies, so you must be cautious and conserve 
your strength.
•	
Plunder and treasure is everything to you. Guard your 
hoard jealously. Count every coin like a miser. 
•	
You do not laugh. You never laugh. You shall laugh 
only when you have burnt Erebor, and Dale, and the 
Greenwood, and smashed Lake-Town to splinters, and 
when every living thing between the Crossings of Celduin 
and the Fords of Anduin acknowledges you as Master. 
•	
What a time to be a Dragon! You are young and 
glorious, a bright banner of flame across the skies 
of a grey world! You are a god, a prince of Dragons! 
Nothing can stop you!
•	
For you, play and punishment, laughter and fire are 
all one. Indulge yourself. Be whimsical and joyful, for 
nothing can harm you or stop you!
•	
Take special joy when others point out your 
magnificence. 
•	
You are no fool, of course. You know that Smaug 
died when some archer struck him with an arrow, and 
you must admit that your diamond waistcoat is still 
somewhat lacking. Speed must be your watchword, then 
– fly faster than an arrow and hotter than a thunderbolt!

--- PAGE 94 ---
93
Sleeping Dragons Lie
Introduction
The Company’s speaker must use DC 20 Intelligence 
(Traditions) to introduce the Company to the Dragon (see 
page 97 of the Lonely Mountain Region Guide). Success 
or failure is fleeting — he’s going to eat you either way, of 
course. Alternatively, the companions can jump straight 
into Riddle, but starting with it means the Company 
won’t be able to persuade the Dragon of anything during 
the interaction phase.
The Riddle Game
The safest option is the Riddle-Game. If you want to use 
mechanics, then start with a Riddle check at DC 10, then 
DC 12, then DC 14 and so forth. The Player-heroes start 
by posing a riddle for the Dragon to solve, and then the 
Dragon responds with a harder one, and then the players 
pose a still harder one and so on until one side fails a 
check. If the Company wins, the Dragon grudgingly offers 
them a single (small) favour or a bauble worth no more 
than 1 gold piece. If the Dragon wins, he boasts loudly 
and then gathers himself for an attack.
Negotiations
If the Company does not challenge the Dragon to the 
Riddle Game, they have only a few minutes to convince the 
worm to listen to them. Listed below are some common 
approaches. The players might choose a different option 
in which case you’ll need to decide how the Dragon reacts.
If the companions try to convince the Dragon to delay 
attacking Erebor, they must either make a Persuasion 
check or an Intimidation check at Disadvantage. They 
might say something like “Even Smaug the Dreadful was 
unable to hold the Mountain, and the strength of Erebor 
has been added to that of Dale and the Iron Hills. The lives 
of Dragons are long, oh calamitous one – wait a short 
few years, and then consider a foray south. Cleverness 
and caution, alloyed with fire and wrath, will make you 
greater than Smaug, greater than any Dragon in this Age 
of the World or the last!”
•	
Failure. The Dragon attacks the presumptuous 
visitors immediately.
•	
Success. The Dragon considers their words and 
promises to wait ‘some time’ before attacking Erebor. 
He will only keep this promise if the heroes succeeded 
by 5 or more. (Of course, if the Company thinks that 
this is a solution, they are sorely mistaken. Not only 
will the Dragon attack in years to come with added 
strength, but he may do so bolstered by the malign 
will and desire of the Enemy.)
If the Company tries to put the Dragon to sleep with a meal 
and music, then a companion must make a Performance 
check. If the meal was substantial (more than two Medium-
sized creatures or even just one Elf or Dwarf) then the hero 
has Advantage on this check.
•	
Failure. The tune is discordant with the Dragon’s 
mood and it attacks immediately (the heroes are 
Surprised).
•	
Success by 0-2. The Dragon will have Disadvantage 
on its attack rolls for the first round of combat.
•	
Success by 3-5. The Dragon will have Disadvantage 
on its attack rolls for the first two rounds of combat.
•	
Success of 6+. The Dragon will be Surprised for the 
first round of combat and have Disadvantage for the 
next two rounds as it shakes off it lethargy.
Final Audience Check
If the Company is speaking to the Dragon to buy time as 
part of a stratagem or is trying to convince the Dragon of 
some other course of action, use Traditions as normal.
•	
Failure. 
Lunchtime! 
The 
Dragon 
attacks 
immediately, with sudden fury. This counts as an 
Ambush.
•	
Success by 0-2. This has been an amusing diversion. 
The Dragon stirs itself and prepares to attack. The 
Company has a brief moment to flee or prepare some 
stratagem.
•	
Success by 3-5. You are a most charming group. The 
Dragon permits the Company to leave. He’ll still hunt 
them down at his leisure, of course, but he would prefer 
that they bring word of his magnificence to Erebor. Let 
them be heralds of the destruction to come!
•	
Success by 6+. Have you considered a career as a 
sycophant? The Dragon demands that one or more of the 
Company stay with him as advisers (or entertainers). 
Insulting the Dragon, or refusing any of his generous 
offers, triggers an immediate attack.

--- PAGE 95 ---
PART SEVEN SLAYING THE DRAGON
Erebor Adventures
94
– Part Seven – 
Slaying The Dragon
The battle with the Dragon is going to be a complex fight, 
and differs in parts depending on whether the heroes are 
battling Raenar (see pages 104-5 of the Lonely Mountain 
Region Guide) or Wruenele.
The Wrath of the Dragon
The longer it takes the Company to reach the Watchtower, 
the more powerful the Dragon has become. This is 
represented by reducing the number of Preparation dice (see 
page 73) by the number of Hunt Episodes, to a minimum of 
0 dice. Whenever the Company tries to employ whatever 
preparations or assistance they’ve earned, somehow the 
Dragon is aware of it and quickly negates it.
Raenar the Plunderer
His flames rekindled by some sorcerous power, Raenar is 
a land-bound Dragon of great age and power. See page 
104 of the Lonely Mountain Region Guide for his tactics in 
battle. The only difference is that instead of Poison Blast, 
he has Fire Breath (see below). Using Fire Breath triggers 
Weak Spot just like Poison Blast.
Wruenele the Fiery
The younger Wruenele can fly, in order to attempt to 
prevent the Company from using his Weak Spot to their 
advantage. But he is easily made over-confident and 
could easily be goaded into attacking an archer close-up, 
only to be ambushed by hidden companions.
Actions
Fire Breath (Recharge 5-6). As an action, Raenar exhales 
fire in a 50-ft cone. Each creature in that area must make a 
DC 18 Dexterity saving throw, taking 52 (15d6) fire damage 
on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.
Wruenele
Huge Dragon (Full-Grown Fire-drake)
STR 
24 (+7)
DEX 
18 (+4)
CON 
22 (+6)
INT 
16 (+3)
WIS 
12 (+1)
CHA 
20 (+5)
Armour Class 20	
	
	
	
Hit Points 225 (18d12 + 108)
Speed 20 ft, fly 60 ft. (see below)
Saving Throws Constitution +10, Wisdom +5, 
Charisma +9
Skills Lore +7, Perception +5, Riddle +7
Senses darkvision 60 ft, passive Perception 15
Languages Westron
Challenge 12 (8,400 XP))
Weak Spot. If Wruenele uses a special ability that uses 
an action (Fire Breath), any heroes that are within range 
may use their reaction to make a single attack. For this 
attack only, he is vulnerable to Piercing, Slashing and 
Bludgeoning damage.
Winged. Wruenele has a flying speed of 60 ft.
Actions
Multiattack. Wruenele makes a Bite attack, a Rend 
attack, and either another Rend attack or Tail-Lash attack.
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 10 ft, one 
target. Hit: 16 (2d8+7) piercing damage.
Rend. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 10 ft, one 
target. Hit: 14 (2d6+7) slashing damage.
Tail-Lash. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 10 ft, 
one target. Hit: 13 (1d12+7) bludgeoning damage. If the 
target is a Large or smaller creature, it must make a DC 
19 Strength saving throw or be knocked Prone.
Fire Breath (Recharge 5-6). As an action, Wruenele 
exhales fire in a 40-ft cone. Each creature in that area 
must make a DC 17 Dexterity saving throw, taking 42 
(12d6) fire damage on a failed save, or half as much 
damage on a successful one.
Reactions
Baleful Gaze. As a reaction, when a creature Wruenele 
can see makes an ability check, he may impose 
Disadvantage on the roll. The creature must be able to see 
Wruenele and the Dragon must not be Incapacitated for 
this effect to apply

--- PAGE 96 ---
95
Sleeping Dragons Lie
The Orcs
As if a Dragon were not bad enough, the Company may 
also need to contend with the Orcs from the valley, if 
they were unable to sneak past them. The Dragon has 
no regard for the lives of the Orcs, and will not hesitate 
to use its breath even if it also catches a few ‘followers’ 
in the blast.
Tricks & Traps 
The Company might employ one or more of these 
stratagems:
The Falling Block
The old Dwarf-trap in the Great Hall can be used to pin 
the Dragon. One member of the Company must lure or 
drive the Dragon through the gate, while another springs 
the trap. The falling block inflicts 38 (7d10) points of 
bludgeoning damage. The Dragon is considered Grappled 
by the block until it uses its action and succeeds at a DC 
30 Strength (Athletics) check.
Striking From Below
The rift offers plenty of hiding places where a single spear-
wielder could conceal themselves, waiting for the Dragon 
to pass. If the hero spends Inspiration, the Dragon’s Weak 
Spot is exposed for a brief moment. This will only work 
once, as afterwards the Dragon will be exceedingly wary 
of attacks from beneath.
The Fatted Goat
The Dragon gets sleepy after a big meal. If the Dragon 
is sleepy, he is at Disadvantage on attack rolls until he 
rouses himself, which takes one or two rounds of combat 
(see page 93). 
Running the Battle
The Dragons employ different tactics.
Raenar
Raenar is cautious and protective of his hoard. He’ll 
use his breath weapon to clear the Watchtower of any 
intruders; only when he’s sure that the mountain is 
empty will he close the main gate and crawl out the 
rift. He attacks methodically, ripping the fiercest foes to 
pieces before turning on less dangerous enemies. 
Fighting Raenar in the close quarters of the mountain is 
foolish; the Company need to get him outside where they 
can attack him with ranged weapons and avoid his fire 
breath. 
Wruenele
Wruenele’s chief advantages are agility and fierceness, 
not tactics. He takes to the air as soon as he can, treating 
the Company like goats to be scorched and hunted, not 
foes to be respected. 
To defeat Wruenele, the Company need to bring him down 
to earth as swiftly as they can, or he will scorch them one 
by one with his breath weapon.

--- PAGE 97 ---
EPILOGUE
Erebor Adventures
96
– Epilogue –
The Dragon is dead! Erebor is once again secure!
Immediately after the Dragon perishes, a fierce snow-
storm blows down from the north. Is this blizzard the 
result of the Dragon’s unnatural fires being quenched, 
allowing winter to reclaim its rightful place in the 
mountains? Or was this storm sent from the Dark Lord, 
his wrath made manifest as another of his plans is ruined 
by the adventurers?
Either way, the snow gives the Company cover to escape 
the remaining Orcs; however, they must leave directly and 
they will be exceedingly hard pressed to haul away the 
Dragon’s entire hoard. The Orcs will hunt them if they do 
not move at speed. The hoard, of course, rightfully belongs 
to King Dáin, but the King under the Mountain will reward 
the adventurers as agreed from his own treasury once they 
return to Erebor. Depending on what they leave behind, 
Dáin may well swiftly send an armed force to quietly claim 
it before any rumours can spread.
Of the other would-be Dragon slayers:
•	
If Khuldri survives the House of Brech, he goes mad 
and runs into the waste to die. Some say his brother’s 
ghost hounded him to atone for his misdeeds.
•	
If Elstan survives, he retires to a little cottage in Dale 
and puts aside his weapons. A companion might 
earn the Aegis of Dale by taking the Receive Title 
undertaking in Dale. If he died, King Bard sends 
adventurers out to find his remains and raise a cairn 
over them.
•	
If Greystroke survives, she vanishes again – no doubt 
going in search of some better death than a Dragon. Her 
path must therefore bring her south, to the land of Gondor 
and the coming battle with the armies of Mordor.
•	
And if Skirfira survives, she has seen a Dragon at last. 
She returns to Erebor to write a practical manual on 
Dragon-slaying.
•	
As few know of the Dragon’s presence, the Company 
do not suddenly become famous throughout 
Wilderland for their valiant deed; however, the Elves 
and the Wise soon know what they have done, and in 
their future dealings with such folk, their deeds will be 
acknowledged and granted respect accordingly.

--- PAGE 98 ---
DARK WATERS
ADVENTURING PHASE
97
Dark Waters
Part Two – The Apprentice
Two days later, the companions are called to a meeting 
at Orsmid’s workshop, where they meet Magan. She asks 
them to find Orsmid, who never returned home after the 
party.
Part Three – Tales, Secrets, and Lies 
The search begins at The Pike and Eel, the inn from the night 
of the rainstorm. There, the Company hears witnesses 
describe a late night argument between Orsmid and 
another man. They soon learn that this man matches the 
description of Odvarr, the head of the Guild of Artisans.
Part Four – The Guild of Artisans
The Company meets with Odvarr, the leader of the Guild. 
Truth and deception mix in this meeting and it is likely 
that both Odvarr and the companions will urgently seek 
what exactly happened to Orsmid on the night of the 
storm.
Part Five – Elf-stones and 
Dwarven Gold 
The heroes must navigate the dangerous political waters 
of Lake-town as they negotiate with the Wood-elves’ 
emissary in order to speak with the Dwarven gem-cutters 
of the Glittering Gate. With success, they learn that more 
than an old metalworker is missing.
Part Six – Whispers in the Dark
A stranger has a lead on the missing smith but following 
up on it means that the Company will have to venture into 
parts of Lake-town where few dare to venture. Before they 
can rescue Orsmid, the heroes are caught!
Part Seven – Flotsam and Jetsam
The companions must break free in order to save Orsmid 
and the Mornamir. But then the Guttermaw comes.
Epilogue – The Past is Never That
Both Orsmid and Odvarr (if he still lives) must face the 
consequences of their recent and not so recent actions.
Past Lives
Odvarr, the Guild-master, and Orsmid, the sculptor, are 
two respectable citizens of Lake-town, but they were very 
different when they were young. Born from poor families, 
- DARK WATERS - 
For heroes of level 10 or 11
•	
When: The adventure is presented as set in the spring 
of 2961, but can take place at any time after 2958, 
with minimal adjustments.
•	
Where: The action takes place among the houses of 
Lake-town, and below them.
•	
What: A bronze statue of Bard is being completed for 
the forthcoming Dragontide celebrations. Orsmid, 
the craftsman responsible for the statue, has gone 
missing. The companions are asked to find him by 
Orsmid’s apprentice, a young woman named Magan.
•	
Why: The companions are among the people who 
saw the craftsman before the disappearance. Magan 
knows of their deeds, and she is confident they will be 
able to find Orsmid. 
•	
Who: Orsmid, master smith and sculptor; Orsmid’s 
apprentice, Magan, and Odvarr, former friend to 
Orsmid and head of the new Guild of Artisans of Lake-
town. Linnon, an ambitious and greedy Raft-elf, and 
finally, the Guttermaw.
•	
Themes: The Company have faced Dragons and 
betrayals on all sides, this adventure sends them to Lake-
town for a bit of relaxation before the Sorcerer makes his 
final strike. But when a sculptor disappears, honourable 
heroes have no choice but to become involved.
Adventuring Phase
The adventure is divided into seven parts.
Part One – At the Sign of The Pike 
and Eel
A large rainstorm forces the Company to take refuge at an 
inn along Bridge street. While there, the companions hear 
rumours of a monstrous creature seen swimming in the 
River Running, as well as plans for this year’s Dragontide 
festival. Toasts are made to celebrate the life and success 
of Orsmid, who is in attendance. Later that same night, 
Orsmid encounters Odvarr, a former friend, and falls into 
the waters of the Lake.

--- PAGE 99 ---
PART ONE AT THE SIGN OF THE PIKE AND EEL
Erebor Adventures
98
the two met on the streets of Lake-town when they were 
still teenage boys. At the time, they were hoping to become 
rich by stealthily reducing the load of many a merchant 
boat; trade back then was not as prosperous as today, but 
the two got lucky at times, and came to enjoy their life as 
petty thieves. 
One summer, a boat came to Lake-town from the distant 
south, carrying precious fabrics and gems to sell to the 
Elvenking. On a moonless night, Odvarr and Orsmid 
climbed its side, and silently crawled below deck. There, 
among crates and bales of cloth, the burglars experienced 
a sight they would never forget: dozens of glittering jewels 
lie wrapped in silk and velvet, a hoard worthy of a Dragon, 
and in the middle of them, the Mornamir, a large gem cut 
like a drop of black crystal, sitting in a crystal casket! 
Orsmid and Odvarr were completely spellbound by the 
sight of the wondrous gem, and almost didn’t hear the peal 
of bells sounding the alarm: Odvarr was the first to bolt, a 
handful of white gems in his pockets. A sailor took a swing 
to his face with a blazing torch as he emerged on the deck, 
but he managed to jump into the lake and swim away. Left 
alone in the hold of the boat, Orsmid sat still in the dark, 
listening to the steps of the seamen running after Odvarr 
and unable to wrestle his eyes from the Mornamir. Then, 
his hands trembling, Orsmid opened the crystal casket, 
took the gem and ran. 
He doesn’t remember exactly what happened next. 
Orsmid woke up soaking wet in the hold of a fisherman’s 
boat moored among the timbers of Lake-town, with a red-
feathered arrow sticking from his side and the weight of 
the precious stone in his pouch.
Shortly after their nasty experience, Orsmid and Odvarr 
parted ways, both considering their thieving days to be 
over. Orsmid became an apprentice to a smith and never 
said anything about the Mornamir to anyone, while Odvarr 
used his ill-gotten wealth cunningly, slowly building a good 
position as a merchant. Many years passed, without them 
ever speaking again of what they saw that night.
Many Years Later
Smaug’s death dramatically changed the lives of Orsmid 
and Odvarr. The smith distinguished himself fighting in 
the Battle of Five Armies and was involved by King Bard 
in rebuilding Lake-town and Dale, acquiring a reputation 
as one of the finest craftsmen of the region. On his part, 
Odvarr found himself in the perfect position to profit from 
the growing importance of Lake-town as a trading port and 
became one of the wealthiest traders in the city, dealing 
mainly with wares produced by the many artisans of 
Lake-town. After long years of political manoeuvring and 
manipulating, Odvarr has succeeded in gaining the trust 
of the majority of the city’s craftsmen and was recently 
elected deacon of the newly-formed Guild of Artisans.
But the past is never fully buried. When Orsmid presented 
to the public the wondrous black gem he was going to use 
as the head of the Black Arrow on his statue of Bard the 
Bowman, Odvarr recognised the Mornamir and finally 
knew what really happened in that darkened hold below 
deck, so many years ago. Both shame for fleeing and 
jealousy of the jewel stirred hatred in his heart for his 
former friend.
– Part One – 
At the Sign of The Pike and Eel
The adventure begins in the spring of the year 2961, while 
the Company is in Lake-town. The spring so far has been 
a very wet one, with Lake-town’s citizens waking up most 
mornings to the sound of the falling rain, and bedding 
down at night to the low rumble of thunder echoing across 
the surface of the Long Lake.
The Statue
It is early evening when the companions find themselves in 
the Market square of Lake-town. They have come to have a 
look at the bronze statue being erected for the forthcoming 
twentieth annual Dragontide celebrations (if the adventure 
is set in 2961). The monument, to be officially uncovered on 
the Day of the Black Arrow (the first of November), will be a 
20-foot tall figure of Bard drawing his great bow, sponsored 
by the town’s Guild of Artisans.
What can be seen for the moment is that the impressive 
statue is cast and assembled on a stone platform, but its 
features are rough and incomplete, as the artist has yet to 
start the lengthy stages of chasing and polishing its metal 
surface. The details of the face are vague, and the arrow 
is conspicuously missing its arrowhead. Companions

--- PAGE 100 ---
99
Dark Waters
who have been in Lake-town the previous month know 
that Orsmid, the sculptor working on the statue, publicly 
announced that the Black Arrow will be topped by a 
marvellous black gem, the like of which has never been 
seen since the recovery of the hoard of the Dragon. As the 
companions exchange their considerations about the work 
of art they came to admire, a sudden, heavy downpour 
sweeps the town, forcing them to take refuge in The Pike 
and Eel, an inn situated at the end of Bridge Street, just 
before the Market square. It is not long before many folk, 
locals and travellers alike, find themselves packed into the 
crowded quarters of the common room.
Clouds and Storms
The rain and thunderstorms of the season provide 
atmosphere in this adventure. The themes of 
misdirection and hidden intentions can be strongly 
reinforced with visual cues from the Loremaster. 
Lank damp hair beneath sodden hoods, puddle-
filled streets, and swollen waterways should feature 
prominently, and a near-constant drizzle of rain 
should fall from a grey and turbulent sky.
It is Safer Indoors
The Pike and Eel is a small inn that is especially popular 
with fishermen and fishmongers. It is owned by Nefgeir, a 
stern but well-meaning man with a reputation for serving 
the best beer outside of Erebor. The common room of the 
inn is not only a comfortable place to weather the storm 
and get some hot fish soup in one’s belly, but a fine spot to 
share stories and take comfort in the renewed fellowship 
of the Free Folk of the North. 
The Loremaster should present this opening episode 
as a free-form roleplaying scene, an opportunity for the 
Player-heroes to have a bit of fun without the weight and 
responsibility of great deeds laid out before them as in 
previous adventures. The aim of this part of the adventure 
is to seed information about forthcoming events, but the 
Loremaster can also use it to plant their own adventure 
hooks, see familiar faces, or introduce important 
Loremaster characters of their own creation. 
The following paragraphs describe the main characters 
involved in the current story. The information provided 
represents how the various characters behave and present 
themselves to the companions (it does not include details 
a character wishes to remain secret). Instead of formal 
Audiences, some characters have information they will 
reveal only if the heroes are persistent.

--- PAGE 101 ---
Erebor Adventures
100
Nefgeir, the Innkeeper
The innkeeper has seen good times and bad over the 
course of his 60 years. His hair and prodigious sideburns 
have long since gone grey, and his voice is like the sound 
of stone breaking. Nefgeir was once an accomplished 
fisherman, a career that left him with a great store of 
patience, a useful virtue in his line of work. After the 
destruction of the old Esgaroth, Nefgeir abandoned his 
former trade and opened the inn.
The innkeeper views the running of The Pike with great 
severity, as many suppliers and customers have learned 
to their cost. This notwithstanding, he is welcoming 
to strangers and a kind word and a bit of respect for 
Traditions goes a long way with him. 
innkeeper seem to appreciate one another’s company in 
that way that old men who have shared a hardship are 
wont to do. 
Orsmid, Metalworker
Sitting by the table closest to the fire and drinking alone 
is Orsmid, a man that doesn’t seem to belong to the usual 
crowd of merchants and fishermen. He is a smith and 
a sculptor, working with all kinds of metals, currently 
tasked by the town council to create the bronze statue of 
Bard the Bowman. A wiry, dark grey beard covers a face, 
which is missing a few teeth, while deep crags on his face 
and hands betray Orsmid’s true age: the master smith has 
spent almost seven decades upon Middle-earth. 
Orsmid, like Nefgeir, has witnessed the destruction that 
Smaug brought to the old city. The sculptor and the 
Despite being born in Lake-town and claiming to be a 
full-blooded native of Esgaroth, Orsmid counts himself 
among King Bard’s staunchest supporters and he speaks 
about the Bowman in a manner more befitting a young 
man talking about his hero. He fought by Bard’s side as 
a spearman at the Battle of Five Armies: he bears a nasty 
scar to show for it, a puckered pale ridge striking across 
his chest, a gift from a Great Bat.
Orsmid is a humble fellow and though he graciously 
thanks well-wishers and admirers of his work, he spends 
most of the evening slowly sipping at his ale and smiling 
warmly at the younger patrons celebrating around him. 
Not a man who is prone to talking, a companion might get

--- PAGE 102 ---
101
Dark Waters
him to open up a bit with a successful DC 10 Charisma 
(Performance) check or talk of his craft. He might speak 
of how pleased he is to be able to devote his talent to the 
legacy of Lake-town before he’s “too old to be of much use” 
and then broadly grinning. If asked about the black gem 
to serve as the Black Arrow’s head, Orsmid says only that 
he is honoured to contribute to the lasting glory of Bard 
with his own personal treasure.
waters below Lake-town itself. Smaller quarry to be sure, 
and considered unwholesome by other fishermen, who in 
truth ignore how Haldis manages to catch the fish that 
dart among the timbers of the city. 
Magan, Apprentice to Orsmid
At some point during the evening, a tall young 
woman enters the inn and approaches Orsmid with a 
concerned look in her eyes. They seem to know each 
other very well, and after a brief exchange, Orsmid 
dismisses her with a nod and a paternal smile. If the 
companions are talking to Orsmid when the woman 
arrives, they are introduced briefly to Magan, 
Orsmid’s apprentice. She came just to recommend 
her master not to stay up all night, as he will need 
his strength for the following morning’s work. When 
Orsmid agrees to her recommendation, she leaves.
Holti, Antique Dealer
A middle-aged merchant visiting from Dale, where he owns 
a curiosity shop. He is a man always on the lookout for a 
deal, or continually making things out to be more valuable 
than they are. With an unflinching smile and disturbingly 
nice teeth, Holti is in Lake-town to determine if there is 
coin to be made by hauling some of his ‘valuables’ here 
for the anniversary celebrations. He wears a ridiculous 
hat which sprouts two brightly coloured feathers.
If approached, Holti is amiable but lets the companions 
know it’s ‘after hours’ and business can wait until morning. 
If they press — a successful DC 10 Charisma (Persuasion) 
check or by invoking the Trading trait — he’ll make comments 
about news of the Dwarven gem-cutters of the Glittering 
Gate experiencing a peculiar absence of precious stones 
and the associated rise in price, something he finds odd.
Haldis
A fisherwoman, Haldis is young and bright-eyed, her 
clothes always smelling faintly of fish. She wears a small 
golden fish hook tucked into her hat as a lucky charm. 
Unlike many of her lake-going peers, Haldis fishes in the 
Haldis is held by other patrons to be very quiet, too quiet 
than is considered normal, to say the truth. And when 
Haldis talks not everyone is able to make head or tails 
of what she says. But she is harmless and good-natured, 
and everyone loves her. If approached politely with a 
DC 10 Intelligence (Traditions) check, Haldis shares a 
number of sinister stories about town children who have 
gone missing. According to her, they were devoured by 
the ‘Guttermaw’, a creature escaped from the deepest 
recesses of the Lonely Mountain and is now swimming in 
the waters of the Long Lake.
Eutaric of Woodland Hall
Called ‘Shepherd’ by his friends, Eutaric is a Woodman of 
Mirkwood, in Lake-town to visit the family of his wife, Aefre. 
Small by the standards of Men, with a short brown beard 
and shaggy hair, he bears a finely crafted bow that is worn 
with years of use. Eutaric is quick with a jest and free with 
his coin when buying drinks and will respond favourably 
to simple courtesy or to True-hearted individuals. He is 
always eager to hear tales from throughout Wilderland.

--- PAGE 103 ---
PART TWO THE APPRENTICE
Erebor Adventures
102
Despite his friendly demeanour, a successful DC 10 
Wisdom (Insight) check suggests that Eutaric is intently 
searching the crowd for someone (in truth, he is hunting 
for an old enemy and the trip to visit his wife’s family is 
but an excuse to seek out his quarry. He will not speak of 
it, unless befriended by a fellow Woodman).
Aefre
Aefre, wife to Eutaric, is a Barding. She is the daughter of 
Arn, the chieftain of a family of herders from the Upper 
Marches. Some years ago, Eutaric was passing through the 
lands to the east of Dale and managed to impress Arn over 
the course of one summer. Finding himself with a thinning 
herd and ever more mouths to feed, Arn was quick to send 
Aefre off to marry Eutaric. Though initially an arrangement, 
their bond grew into a loving one and Aefre now oversees 
the affairs of their home in Woodland Hall. She is gentle but 
firm, and is very skilled at resolving the small disputes that 
can arise amongst folk on a farmstead.
Aefre is capable of seeing through simple deceptions, and 
can often tell the heart of a person with a glance. She 
is short with a sweet nature and a crooked smile. She 
responds favourably to any hero who has a pet, and a DC 
10 Intelligence (Nature) or Wisdom (Animal Handling) 
check will see her greet the companions almost as family.
Later into the Night
Well before midnight, some of the storm’s intensity fades, 
but there is still a persistently heavy rainfall. There is 
space available at the inn if the Company chooses to stay 
there. A hero can hire out a smaller sumptuous room for 
2s a night or a Company-sized room for 75c. Companions 
wanting more affordable lodging can stay in the common 
room for 5c instead. Companions with other lodgings who 
insist on returning there can make it, but will arrive home 
soaking wet.
•	
For the purpose of this adventure, it is important 
that the companions pay no particular attention to 
Orsmid the metalworker leaving the tavern some time 
after midnight. If they didn’t befriend him it is easy 
to just avoid mentioning him leaving at all. If one or 
more companions pay close attention to what he is 
doing, just have him find an excuse to leave on his 
own, maybe even taking offense if someone offers to 
accompany him or to follow him.
Sometime before sunrise, the rain lets up to a light 
drizzle. If the companions are still at the inn, the smell 
of simmering broth and baking bread coming from the 
kitchen is enough to wake up even the late risers. Many of 
the other occupants have left before the dawn to return to 
their daily responsibilities, though perhaps with an aching 
head to accompany them. 
If the companions have other tasks to occupy them in 
Lake-town, let them get to it. Two days later they will be 
summoned to Orsmid’s workshop.
– Part Two –
 The Apprentice
Orsmid works in one of the largest buildings in the 
Artisans’ District of Lake-town. The high-ceilinged 
warehouse serves the craftsman well, as he needs a 
workshop that can house the large furnace and heavy 
tools he uses for casting the separate pieces of his larger 
bronze statuary. A smaller forge is used for melting 
other metals, as Orsmid occasionally works also as a 
blacksmith and coppersmith, making iron tools and 
copper wares, like weather-vanes, plates, and pots. The 
smith works and lives in his workshop, sharing the place 
with his apprentice, Magan.
Magan has not seen or heard from Orsmid since the night 
of the storm, now two nights ago. Beginning to fear the 
worst, and not wishing to create gossip, Magan turns to 
the Company for help. She saw them at The Pike and Eel, 
possibly talking to her master, and she has additionally 
heard tales of their recent accomplishments (such as 
saving her aunt Kelda in The Silver Needle). Magan 
hires a street urchin to bring them a simple message: 
‘Your assistance is requested in a delicate matter related 
to the planning of this year’s Dragontide celebrations.’
The Young Disciple 
Magan meets the Company at Orsmid’s workshop. 
Tools and materials cover every corner of a space 
clearly used primarily for work, together with several 
wax models and clay prototypes for the statue of Bard. 
Magan receives her guests in her workwear, her pale 
hair cut shorter than is fashionable and tied back with 
a bit of leather scrap.
10
10

--- PAGE 104 ---
103
Dark Waters
Motivation and Expectations
Magan loves Orsmid as a father-figure and makes no effort 
to disguise her affection for the old man. As a crafter she’s 
fond of Dwarf-folk and the Company gains an automatic 
+1 Expectation if there are any Dwarves present. Apply a 
-2 Expectation modifier if the heroes are dismissive of her 
master or criticise her decision to become a sculptor and 
smith.
Introduction
Magan has sought out the Company specifically. Any 
Barding, Dwarf, or Man of the Lake will have Advantage 
on their initial Traditions check.
but he seems to maintain a bottomless vitality that I do 
not begrudge him. You may have heard, he has been 
tasked by the Guild of Artisans to sculpt the statue of King 
Bard that you have seen in the square.
Now, my master has gone missing. Two nights ago he left 
the workshop to go at The Pike and Eel, as is his custom 
after a hard day of work. Two days without as much as 
a word or note is not like him at all, and he would never 
vanish while working on such a prestigious task! That is 
why I fear for his safety.
Would you help me find my master? Word of your deeds 
has reached us, even here in our workshop, and I hope 
that you may prove able to locate him.’
Interaction
Magan begins with earnestness, but as the conversation 
progresses, her voice takes on a more familiar tone as her 
emotional investment starts to win through:
‘For six years I have served as an apprentice to Orsmid, 
whose home you are now standing in. His is a rare and 
precious trade, and I am honoured to be his disciple and 
heir. He is not a young man, and he intends to have me 
take over his workshop when he finally decides to retire, 
What do the Companions Know 
about that Night?
The companions were at The Pike the night Orsmid 
disappeared, so it is entirely natural that they will 
attempt to draw some conclusions based on what 
they witnessed there. Each Loremaster must answer 
the question individually, as it is impossible to 
predetermine what the companions did while at the 
inn. Did they befriend any of the patrons that night? 
Did they sleep at the inn or leave early? Did they see 
Orsmid leaving?
.
The companions will probably have several questions 
to pose to Magan, to get a better picture of Orsmid as 
a man, and to know what clues there may be about his 
disappearance. The Loremaster should use any part of the 
following dialogue to answer the Company’s questions. 
“Orsmid has no family to speak of. He lost everything in 
the destruction of the old Lake-town, and he helped in the 
building of the new. But I don’t know much, as he doesn’t 
talk about his past. I had always assumed that his family 
died in the fires.”
“Though he is friendly to all that he meets, I don’t think he 
has anyone in his life that he is particularly close to, other 
than myself, or the innkeeper at The Pike on Bridge street. 
I can’t help but think there is some past tragedy that I am 
not aware of that keeps him so solitary.”

--- PAGE 105 ---
PART THREE TALES, SECRETS AND LIES
Erebor Adventures
104
“His commission for the statue was handled through the 
new town Guild of Artisans. Orsmid was initially surprised 
when they chose him to complete this great work, but was 
excited and honoured.”
“Orsmid took me in six summers ago. I was born in Dale, 
my mother was sickly throughout much of my childhood 
and I largely raised myself. I have always been big for my 
age, and strong, and as a youngster I was fascinated by 
the superior skill of the Dwarven smiths of my hometown. 
I had dreamed of being taken as an apprentice to one of 
them, but I had no one to pay for it.”
“I was losing all hope when Orsmid caught me stealing 
bread in the Market square of Dale. He was there to buy 
ore and charcoal and took more pity on me than he should 
have. I have been living with him ever since. He’s all the 
family I have, I owe him everything.”
“I don’t believe Orsmid has any enemies. I can’t imagine 
anyone wanting to do the old man harm. His customers 
are satisfied, and recently he is enjoying a measure of fame 
since the construction of the statue has started. I suppose 
it’s possible that some may be jealous of his success, but I 
can’t imagine who that might be.”
If asked about the black gem that Orsmid intended to use 
as the head of the Black Arrow, Magan answers with some 
reluctance.
 
“It is my master’s greatest treasure. A great black jewel, as 
wide as my open hand and tapering at one end. I do not 
know from whence it came, I only know it has been in my 
master’s possession as long as I have known him. He allowed 
me to look upon it but once before the presentation. I don’t 
know where he keeps it, and I fear it might be missing too.”
Resolution
If the Company agrees to search for Orsmid, make a Final 
Audience check. Having offered up what information and 
reward she might, Magan returns to her work. She can be 
found here in the following days. 
Failure. Magan is desperate. She worries that time is 
not on her side, and that her master may be lying injured 
somewhere. She doesn’t think much of the adventurers, 
so once they’ve left, she will ask Odvarr at the Guild of 
Artisans for help. Add +1 Expectation if the heroes meet 
with Odvarr in Part Four: The Guild of Artisans as he will 
already expect them and be prepared.
Success by 0–2. Magan’s immediate panic is soothed, 
though she is still fearful. If they can return Orsmid safely, 
she offers the companions 20 silver pieces each, taken from 
her own meagre earnings as an apprentice (she is unaware 
how little that is likely to be from the Company’s perspective).
Success by 3–5. Magan offers the reward as above, but the 
Company has also raised her spirits somewhat. If Orsmid 
lives, she now believes the companions may be able to 
find him. Magan offers additional reward in the form of 
professional assistance sometime in the future (see below).
Success by 6+. Magan’s heart has been rekindled with 
renewed hope. In addition to the previous two results, 
should the companions prove successful, she invites them 
to be official guests of herself and Orsmid at the ceremony 
for the completion of the statue. (See the Epilogue on page 118).
Magan’s Help
The exact nature of this help can take many forms 
and will be determined by individual groups. If using 
the rules for Holdings (Mirkwood Campaign, page 
9) perhaps Magan can make or repair metal wares, 
or reinforce doors or window frames, potentially 
improving the Holding’s rating by 1 point. 
Alternately, Magan is adventurous enough to help 
in many instances where metalworking might be 
helpful, such as Restoring the Old Forest Road 
(Mirkwood Campaign page 31) or other such 
Fellowship phase endeavours.
– Part Three – 
Tales, Secrets and Lies
This part of the adventure assumes that the companions 
start investigating the disappearance of Orsmid, and that 
they return to The Pike and Eel to talk to folk they may 
have met there.

--- PAGE 106 ---
105
Dark Waters
Back at the Inn
The Pike and Eel offers a different sight during the day: 
the windows are open, and the daylight chases away 
the shadows from the darkest corners. The innkeeper is 
there, naturally, and a handful of regular patrons sit at the 
tables, generally eating rather than drinking. Haldis, the 
fisherwoman, is conspicuously missing from the patrons 
the companions encountered that night.
Nefgeir
The innkeeper is found at the inn during most hours of the 
day, as it is both his home and livelihood. If the Company 
befriended Nefgeir previously, or if they’re staying at the 
inn, he greets them with a smile and makes offers of food 
or drink (the companions have Advantage on any checks 
as long as they remain polite, paying customers).
A DC 15 Intelligence (Traditions) check reveals that 
Orsmid left the Inn just after midnight, while it was still 
raining fairly heavily. While Nefgeir doesn’t have much 
to add to the investigation at hand, having him as a 
friend may pay off in other ways, for example, maybe the 
Company can use the inn as a base for the investigation.
Aefre and Eutaric
The Company may also track down Aefre easily. She and 
her husband are staying at the inn over the next few days, 
and while Eutaric is gone in the daytime, Aefre awaits a 
visit from her father, so can be found in the common room 
or out about the Market square. 
Aefre can provide a very valuable lead for the 
companions: well after midnight on the night of the 
storm, Orsmid took his leave of the inn, but did not 
make it very far. 
“I thought it peculiar that the old man was leaving so late, 
and in such weather. Still, he seemed in a cheerful mood 
and the wine had only brightened his eyes. When he left I 
stepped out after him to watch the rain for a while. It was 
then that I saw Orsmid over by the Market-pool and he was 
not alone. There, standing in the rain, he and another man 
were having an argument! I thought at first to get Eutaric to 
break up a tussle if need be, but something about the way 
the men spoke to one another suggested to me that they 
were old acquaintances. I suddenly found myself feeling 
a bit foolish for spying on two old men! I went back inside 
and it wasn’t long before I retired for the night.”
If asked to describe the other man, Aefre can provide some 
details.
“I didn’t get too close a look at him, though he seemed to 
be of an age with Orsmid. But I can tell you this, his face 
seemed to bear a horrible disfigurement on one side, as 
though burned by fire.”
The Guttermaw
Everyone in Lake-town has heard something 
about the water serpent haunting the waters of the 
Long-lake, even though no one has seen it. Some 
say it’s the cursed spawn of Smaug returned to 
avenge the Dragon, others laugh at the nonsense 
and say it must be a marsh drake, arrived from 
the East following a trading boat. Those believing 
themselves the wisest say it’s only a monstrous eel 
or a gigantic catfish.
For the length of the investigation, Loremasters are 
encouraged to come up with their own fantastical 
details about the ‘Guttermaw’ and to weave them into 
the testimonies of those the companions interrogate 
in their search for Orsmid. The blame for any 
wrongdoing should be put on the creature, from 
accidental deaths to the fever of a child — by the end 
of the adventure, the companions should have heard 
enough about it to be entirely sure it’s just a rumour.
Nefgeir the Witness
If the Loremaster finds it convenient, or if the 
players need some help in figuring out what’s going 
on, an additional detail can be added to Nefgeir’s 
backstory. If this option is chosen, then Nefgeir is the 
fisherman who many years ago recovered a wounded 
Orsmid from the waters of the lake. Orsmid knows 
he owes his life to Nefgeir, as he recognised the boat 
on which he woke up, but the two never talked about 
what really happened that night. This secret is the 
shared experience that forged their friendship.
10

--- PAGE 107 ---
Erebor Adventures
106
If asked about the whereabouts of her husband, she 
informs the companions that he is visiting old friends in 
the city and purchasing supplies for their journey home.
 
If the companions return to ask Nefgeir about the burned 
man and give a description, he will easily identify the man 
as Odvarr, the head of Lake-town’s Guild of Artisans. The 
guild is a new association, created a few years ago for the 
mutual assistance of all the craftsmen of the city, following 
the example set by the powerful Guild of Merchants. 
Holti
Holti too stays at The Pike, and can be found perusing the 
Market square throughout the day. Drifting from stall to 
stall, he is an easy fellow to spot, due to the feathers in his 
cap, as he looks for deals to make or people to swindle. 
Holti didn’t have much interaction with Orsmid at the 
inn as the old man didn’t have much patience for Holti’s 
slippery language or merchant’s ways. He moved onto 
easier targets, but only after having a brief conversation 
with Orsmid about the quality of the inn’s beer. 
If asked about a black jewel however, a successful DC 
15 Charisma (Persuasion) check causes Holti’s eyes 
light up and with a conspiratorial tone he suggests that 
the companions head to the Glittering Gate in the Elven 
quarter to inquire there about stolen jewels.
“You cannot trust any Dwarf with an honest deal when 
it’s gold or precious stones, but it’s one thing to make a 
good profit, another to steal outright! I have heard that 
the city’s current shortage of quality jewellery wasn’t a 
plan of our mountain neighbours, but should rather be 
investigated among the subjects of the Woodland ruler…”
Holti cannot provide any proof to substantiate the 
rumour; he can only add that it makes sense to him, as it 
seems that the ‘quality jewellery’ that is currently missing 
from the market refers especially to those white or green 
precious stones that are called ‘Elf-stones’ around here. 
Is Eutaric the Villain?
Some players may latch onto Eutaric as a potential suspect in the disappearance, given his behaviour at 
the inn. If the Loremaster wishes, tracking down Eutaric can provide a perfectly fruitless red herring 
for the companions to chase after. In truth, he is spending his days searching for a man that killed his 
younger brother many years ago, though he is not yet sure what he will do if he finds him! He is a careful 
and thoughtful sort, used to spiriting between the trees in the Western Eaves of Mirkwood, but coming 
so close to resolving this chapter of his life has made him reckless. If the players follow this hunch, 
Eutaric can be found, though it will require a successful DC 20 Intelligence (Investigation) check. He 
can currently be found in the vicinity of the Gatehouse.

--- PAGE 108 ---
PART FOUR THE GUILD OF ARTISIANS
107
Dark Waters
– Part Four – 
The Guild of Artisans
If the heroes have identified the man who was arguing 
with Orsmid the night of his disappearance, at some point 
they will head toward the house of the Guild of Artisans to 
speak to Odvarr. 
The Guild of Artisans of Lake-town was formed five 
years ago, to protect the business interests of the many 
craftsmen of the city, as many had come to believe that 
without organisation, they would be overshadowed by 
the Guild of Merchants’ interests as far as the decisions 
of the city council are concerned (the council is composed 
mainly of retired traders). 
Their meeting hall is a small two-storey building facing a 
small square along the Street of Bowyers and Fletchers; the 
members of the association call it their ‘guild house’ (and 
not a ‘guild hall’) out of deference for the more powerful 
Guild of Merchants.
During the day, the house serves as a meeting place for 
the members of the Guild to trade with tool and material 
suppliers, or to secure commissions. In the evening, the 
Guild members gather in a smaller room at the back of the 
building, the Guild tavern, to drink beer as they discuss the 
events of the day. The private office of the Guild deacon, 
Odvarr, is on the second floor, as is the room where the 
board of officers meet.
Entering the Guild House
A single guard is stationed at the wooden door of the guild 
house. The guard carries a buckler and a short sword and 
looks perfectly comfortable standing out in the rain; with 
a scowl and a flinty look in his eyes it seems as though he 
has spent most of his life doing just that. 
The guard stops all visitors at the door, and asks to 
know their business with the guild. The guild house is 
members only, except by appointment, he explains. If the 
companions mention Orsmid, the statue, or suggest that 
they are investigating a crime, after a brief disappearance 
inside, the guard returns to escort them inside and up a 
short flight of stairs. As the companions enter the building, 
the rain strengthens.
At the top of the stairs is the office of the guild deacon. 
Inside is a room dominated by a shining wooden desk 
covered in heavily bound ledgers, stacks of parchment, 
and an iron bound chest. The man behind the desk is no 
less magisterial, with an embroidered waistcoat of bright 
colours covering his expansive midsection. 
Odvarr seems a man that likes everything in its place, 
down to the last hair on his head, despite the burn-scarred 
flesh that covers the right half of his face.

--- PAGE 109 ---
Erebor Adventures
108
With a nod he dismisses the guard and lights a pipe before 
gesturing for the companions to take a seat. When he 
speaks, his scars require him to talk out of the left side of 
his mouth, giving him a bit of a smirk that is sometimes 
reflected in the twinkle in his eyes.
A Dark Conscience
Odvarr believes that he let Orsmid drown, after he saw him 
fall into the waters of the lake. He was certain that there 
weren’t any witnesses, but now that the companions are here 
asking about Orsmid, he starts worrying that they might 
discover something. He is ready to deny any involvement, 
and will resort to putting the blame on the legendary 
Guttermaw if the companions leave him no other possibility. 
The outcome of the Audience with him will determine how 
much of a threat Odvarr believes the companions to be.
Expectations
Odvarr has not ascended to this position by being blind 
to the motivations of other men. Apply a -2 Expectation 
modifier if the heroes explicitly seek news of Orsmid or a +1 
modifier if he’s been warned by Magan (in which case he 
is prepared and may become over-confident in his lying).
the players already consider Odvarr a suspect and wish 
to hide this from him, the speaker can use Riddle instead.
Interaction
The companions are either here to question Odvarr about 
the argument with Orsmid, or to simply follow up on 
the knowledge that the Guild of Artisans helped arrange 
Orsmid’s commission for the statue. Some likely questions 
and Odvarr’s answers are listed below. The Loremaster 
should use the information provided as a guide, keeping 
in mind that Odvarr believes he isn’t really responsible 
for his former friend’s death, as he didn’t push him into 
the water. He is both sly and shrewd, and almost every 
response is a carefully crafted mixture of truths and lies.
•	
Was the Guild responsible for Orsmid’s commission 
for the statue?

“I take great pride in saying yes, the Guild of Artisans 
was instrumental in arranging for Orsmid to be the 
lead artisan on that grand work. While I am certain 
our friends the Dwarves would have done an excellent 
job with stone, the Guild felt that it was only fitting that 
one of King Bard’s subjects should be the one doing the 
work. And none better than Orsmid, who has served 
our fine city for so many years.”
•	
Was there a great deal of money at stake?
“You understand that while I cannot divulge the exact 
terms of the commission, it the Guild’s hope that Orsmid 
will complete the statue, and in so doing earn enough 
coin and prestige that he will be able to finally lay down 
his chisels and get some well-deserved rest in retirement.”
•	
Were you at The Pike and Eel two nights ago?
“I wasn’t. I sometimes visit for a late glass of mulled 
wine, but not that night. I passed by the Market square 
on my way home, but didn’t think about stopping at the 
inn.”
•	
Someone saw you arguing with Orsmid. Are you and 
Orsmid old acquaintances? (At this question Odvarr 
may pause, surprised that there were witnesses to 
the event. But he is quick enough to answer with a 
falsehood). 
10
Introduction
Odvarr is used to dealing with silver-tongued merchants 
and wealthy landowners, so the companions should 
introduce themselves with Traditions as normal. It will 
also prove to Odvarr that the Player-heroes are smart 
enough to know how to approach a man like himself, so 
they’re probably smart enough to cause him trouble. If

--- PAGE 110 ---
109
Dark Waters
“It was a personal matter. There are some wounds that 
take a very long time to heal, try as we might. Orsmid 
and I are old friends, it is true. We have known each 
other for 25 years now.”
•	
If pressed about the argument, or confronted about 
seeming nervous or dishonest, Odvarr recovers 
quickly and with a sigh, feigning a reveal of the truth.
“The heart of the matter is this: many years ago, there was 
a woman. Her name was Eofara, and I loved her more than 
the Dwarves love their Mountain. But her heart belonged 
to Orsmid. It was… an unpleasant affair. My friendship 
with Orsmid never recovered. If my regrets were put to 
paper they would outnumber these ledgers surrounding 
us. Please do not ask me to speak more of it.”
•	
Did you know that Orsmid is missing? 
“Missing? It’s true that I have not seen or spoken to 
Orsmid since that night. But missing? This is foul news.”
•	
What do you know about Orsmid’s black jewel? Do you 
know that it is also missing? (More than any other, this 
topic of conversation puts Odvarr on edge, as it was 
his desire for the black gem that prevented him from 
rescuing Orsmid. In an effort to hide his uneasiness, and 
to find what the companions know of the whereabouts 
of the jewel, he says what he really knows of the stone, 
taking the chance to cast Orsmid under a negative light). 
“Orsmid’s black jewel? That it and Orsmid are 
missing… these are dark tidings indeed, though not 
entirely unexpected...” 
Here he takes a deep breath, as if releasing himself 
from some burden: 
“My friends, I very much doubt that the jewel belonged to 
Orsmid… When he revealed it to the public, I recognised 
it from some studies that I made when I was younger. 
It was called the Mornamir by the Elves, though I don’t 
know for certain where it came from. A local legend say it 
came from the East, and that it was lost when treacherous 
Men tried to lure the Elvenking into a trap and kill him. I 
do not presume to know how he came to possess it, but 
I am certain that it was not in Orsmid’s right to keep it.” 
Ending the Audience
Once he’s answered three or four questions, Odvarr will 
end the conversation, citing a Guild meeting that he must 
attend. If the jewel and the disappearance of Orsmid came 
up during the audience, Odvarr insists he must make 
preparations to replace Orsmid as the artisan responsible 
for the statue’s completion, and with little time to waste. 
Once the companions leave, Odvarr becomes bent on 
finding the jewel, hoping that Orsmid didn’t have it on 
himself when he fell in the water. Odvarr calls in many 
favours among the craftsmen of the city in an effort to 
locate the gem. 
Make a Final Audience check to determine Odvarr’s 
assessment of the Company, which will determine his 
next course of action.
Failure. Odvarr is not impressed with the companions 
and does not believe them to be any serious threat to him. 
He will instruct his contacts throughout the city to keep 
their ears open just in case. The Company might suspect 
that Odvarr is hiding something, though they won’t know 
what.
Success by 0–2. Odvarr is concerned about the 
involvement of the companions. He believes that given 
enough time they may somehow connect Orsmid’s 
death back to him. To protect himself he will divert the 
companions’ suspicions to the legendary Guttermaw, 
providing at least one witness of the creature’s presence 
under the waters of the lake. The Company might get the 
distinct impression that Odvarr means them ill, though he 
would hotly deny it if confronted, dismissing it as ‘stress’ 
or some other excuse.
Success by 3–5. Odvarr is seriously worried. He especially 
fears that the companions may find the Mornamir before 
he does. He takes all the precautions described above, 
additionally starting to pay for information in gold. 
Eventually, someone will direct him to the fisherwoman 
Haldis, and Odvarr will learn how she witnessed an old 
man being pulled from the water in the Elven quarter two 
nights ago.
Success by 6+. The companions get all the information 
described above. Moreover, they notice that Odvarr was

--- PAGE 111 ---
PART FIVE ELF STONES AND DWARVEN GOLD
Erebor Adventures
110
clearly upset by something the Company said, but he is 
enough of a dissembler that he hid exactly what it was 
that concerned him. The Company definitely leave with 
the impression that Odvarr is not trustworthy and that 
they need to be cautious.
carry weapons and wear armour under their cloaks (see 
the stats for Silvan Elf Sentinels, below). 
The way they address the Company varies on whether 
there are Elves in the group or not: if there are any Elves, 
the guards start speaking in Elvish, asking about the 
group’s intentions, their tone courteous but firm. If there 
are no Elves, the guards speak in the Common tongue and 
request the companions to leave any weapons in their 
custody. They ask kindly at first, but are ready to resort to 
more persuasive ways if provoked. 
A companion wishing to impress them with their heroic 
repute can attempt a DC 15 Charisma (Intimidation) 
check. A success sees the guards relent from their request 
and take a step back, while a failure means the Sentinels 
drive the offending companion from the Elven quarter at 
spear-point.
What Really Happened?
Later on the same night when the companions were 
still inside at The Pike and Eel (or after they went 
home), Odvarr confronted Orsmid in the streets of 
Lake-town, asking him about the black gem. The 
discussion quickly escalated into an argument, and 
the over-excited (and quite drunk) Orsmid took a 
literal false step and fell from the street into the 
Long Lake, under the cold stare of Odvarr who stood 
there, watching him disappear under the dark waters
What Now?
The earlier driving rain has given way to a cold mist that 
obscures Lake-town, hiding the many alleyways of Esgaroth 
and making navigation difficult. Hopefully the companions 
have started to have some ideas about the fate of Orsmid 
and the jewel. Companions from Lake-town fearing that 
the Mornamir could have been stolen know that there is 
only one place where gems are dealt with by merchants, 
and that is the Glittering Gate, in the Elven quarter.
– Part Five – 
Elf-stones and Dwarven Gold
Even in times of pleasant weather the Elven quarter is 
not necessarily a hospitable place. Occupying the entire 
southwestern corner of the town, the district is separated 
from the rest of the city by a canal, and access to it can be 
gained only by boat or crossing one of its three bridges. 
When the companions arrive, the rain has softened to a 
fine cool mist, but dark clouds threaten on the horizon 
and, as the day wears on, thunder continually grumbles 
a warning.
A Cold Welcome
A trio of cloaked Wood-elves appear out of the rainy mist 
to stop the companions as they enter the Elven quarter. 
Soundless and seemingly untouched by the rain, they 
10
The Emissary
If the companions are let free to roam the Elven quarter 
to carry on their investigation, they eventually bump into 
Celebril, the emissary of the Woodland Realm currently 
handling all the Elvenking’s business in Lake-town (see the 
Elf-Lord on page 77 of the Loremaster’s Guide). 
Celebril is not an old Elf by the reckoning of her folk, but she 
has seen the birth and disappearance of many a realm of

--- PAGE 112 ---
111
Dark Waters
Men in her lifetime, so she has little or no patience for a trifling 
matter such as a single mortal who has gone missing. This 
means that she tries to dismiss the companions as quickly 
as possible, making sure that they are allowed to stay in the 
Elven quarter for only the shortest time. 
The companions must pass a DC 20 Charisma (Persuasion) 
check (Celebril is Impatient) to convince Celebril to allow 
them to continue. On a success, the companions are allowed 
to stay until midday (if they arrived in the morning) or until 
sundown (if they arrived in the afternoon); on a failure, they 
must depart immediately (see below). 
The Glittering Gate
The Glittering Gate is the group of small houses huddled 
in the westernmost side of the Elven quarter. Painted in 
bright geometric patterns, they are the workshops of the 
Dwarven goldsmith and gem-cutters of Lake-town. This 
is the only place where the trading of gems and gold is 
allowed by the Master of Esgaroth, and thus where 
many treasures and precious items change hands and 
ownership. 
Where normally this part of the city is enlivened at any 
hour of the day by the sounds of dozens of small hammers 
and chisels, and by the continuous murmuring of the 
Dwarf-smiths and their customers (mostly Elves), today a 
more sombre silence reigns, broken only by the incessant 
drumming of the rain on the low roofs.
The Guardian
Before they can take a guess at the reason for such 
tranquillity, the companions are hailed from across the 
street by a stout Dwarf, a guard wearing a heavy coat of 
mail and a steel helm concealing most of his face, but not 
his flowing red beard. This is Gylfi, son of Gisli, keeper 
of the Glittering Gate. Gylfi is used to dealing daily with 
haughty merchants and their spouses, or with supercilious 
Elves, and sees the meeting with the companions as a 
welcome change of pace: he is a former adventurer, and is 
able to recognise their ilk at a glance.
The Power of the Elvenking
If the Player-heroes try to remind Celebril that 
the city is ruled by the Master of Esgaroth and 
not by the Elvenking, they are treated as if they 
failed the Persuasion check, and an angry letter is 
immediately hand-delivered to the Master of Lake-
town, requesting that the companions be punished, or 
at least fined, for obstructing the work of an official 
emissary of the Woodland Realm. As a consequence, 
any companion with a Proficiency Bonus of +4 or 
less is summoned by the Master to the Town-hall, 
where they receive a public reprimand — they have 
Disadvantage on all Audience checks in Esgaroth 
until the end of the Adventuring phase.
Silvan Elf Sentinel
Medium Elf
STR 
16 (+3
DEX 
18 (+4)
CON 
17 (+3)
INT 
11 (+0)
WIS 
14 (+2)
CHA 
13 (+1))
Armour Class 16 (Leather Corslet)
Hit Points 75 (10d8+30)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Athletics +6, Perception +5, Traditions +3
Senses passive Perception 15
Languages Sindarin, Westron
Challenge 5 (1,800 XP)
Disabling Strike. By spending a Focus point, the Sentinel 
can force a target that they has struck to make a DC 13 
Constitution saving throw or become Stunned until the 
end of the Sentinel’s next turn.
Focused. The Sentinel has trained for centuries. They 
have 5 Focus points, which they regain when they finish a
short or long rest. The Sentinel can use their bonus action 
and spend one Focus point on their turn to take the Dash, 
Disengage, or Dodge action, to make an attack with their 
great spear, or attempt a Disabling Strike..
Actions
Multiattack: The Sentinel makes two attacks with either 
their Great Spear or Great Bow.
Great Spear: Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 9 (1d12+3) piercing damage.
Great Bow: Ranged Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, range 
150/600 ft, one target. Hit: 8 (1d8+4) piercing damage
Reactions
Parry. The Sentinel adds 3 to their AC against one melee 
attack that would hit them. To do so, the Sentinel must see 
the attacker and be wielding a melee weapon.

--- PAGE 113 ---
PART SIX WHISPERS IN THE DARK
Erebor Adventures
112
After their experience with the Elven sentinels, the 
companions will probably welcome meeting someone 
like Gylfi. Forthright and talkative, the Dwarf is not only 
genuinely friendly, but he also possesses some potentially 
useful information.
– Part Six – 
Whispers in the Dark
At some point during the adventure the companions will 
want to talk to Haldis, the fisherwoman. The companions 
can find her only after a few days into the investigation, 
on a quay along the Market-pool, mending fishing nets. 
Meeting Haldis
Haldis hasn’t any important information to share about 
Orsmid or the Mornamir but she can instead tell them 
all she knows about the ‘Guttermaw’ and the ‘mud-men’ 
that roam the underside of the city, if the companions are 
interested. Provided they don’t think this is only crazy talk, 
the companions may find that missing piece of the puzzle 
that will allow them to solve the situation.
The ‘Guttermaw’
Haldis tells a version of the legend darker than the 
colourful renditions that the companions may have heard 
about the creature so far. According to the fisherwoman, 
the monster lurks in the dark waters below the city, feeding 
on fish and waste, but climbs along the timbers with its 
powerful short legs when hunger prompts it to search for 
larger prey. She has never seen it, but she has seen the 
scratches left by its talons on the timbers, and she has felt 
its presence under the surface of the lake.
The ‘Mud-men’
If the companions show an interest on this matter, Haldis 
explains that those she calls the ‘mud-men’ are a gang of 
thieves roaming the same environment she herself favours: 
the underside of Lake-town, the watery maze created by 
the thousands of timbers rising from the surface of the 
Long Lake. She has given them this name because she has 
noticed that they mask their countenance, smearing mud 
across their face and eyes. 
Haldis has been observing these mud-men for the last couple 
of days, moving about the underside of Lake-town. She thinks 
they are thieves because who else would hide under the 
town? Considering their movements, they must have built a 
refuge somewhere under the Town-hall’s quarter, where the 
wealthiest houses rest on the tallest timbers.
If the companions are determined to find these mud-
men, Haldis leads them to the Butcher’s Quay, where they 
If informed of Orsmid’s disappearance, Gylfi is saddened, 
as he knew the old craftsman from his business visits to 
the Elven quarter. Unfortunately, he doesn’t know of any 
enemies that the smith might have made.
If the subject of precious stones is raised, Gylfi will 
confirm that a rumour shared by all the jewel-smiths 
of the Glittering Gate tells of an alarming number of 
burglaries in the last three months, all concerning gems. 
Many conjectures have been made, and more curses 
have been uttered by every Dwarf in Lake-town, but to 
no avail: the precious stones seem to have disappeared. 
Several letters of aggravation have been delivered to the 
Master of Esgaroth, and word has it that the Dwarves 
of the Glittering Gate are a hair away from invoking the 
intervention of the King under the Mountain himself. But 
other Dwarves counsel for patience instead, fearing that 
the Wood-elves might be involved - after all, who loves 
gems and precious stones more than the Elvenking?
10

--- PAGE 114 ---
113
Dark Waters
can use a long ladder to climb down from the ‘surface’ 
of the city and into the underside of Lake-town. Then, the 
fisherwoman wishes the Company good luck with their 
search, and leaves them to their dark business.
Lake-town Down Under
The ladder leads the Company to a platform of wooden 
boards. From here, a path made of planks nailed to the 
stoutest timbers enters the dark forest that rises from the 
waters under the Town-hall quarter. Hundreds of wide 
stilts emerge from the surface of the lake, made the colour 
of ink by the everlasting darkness that reigns here. 
The maze of twisting ways the companions are following 
was originally created for the maintenance of the city’s 
underside, and enlarged secretly by thieves and burglars 
for their own nefarious purposes. Spiders and bugs crawl 
along the wet surfaces, and a smell of fish and rotten 
things permeates the air.
Lair of the Mud-men
After some time of walking in the dark, the companions 
see a flickering light: an oil lantern hanging from a hook 
driven into a stout timber. The sources of light multiply as 
they get closer, until the companions can make out what 
seems the reconstruction of an encampment atop the trees 
of Mirkwood: wooden platforms lie suspended between 
the stilts sustaining the buildings above, and upon them 
camp several warriors, clad in the colours of autumn. 
They are silently sharing a small casket of wine they must 
have stolen from the Market-pool, and several heaps of 
loot lie scattered about. The companions can sense many 
more warriors lurking at the edge of the firelight.
The companions may be surprised to see that the 
burglarious mud-men are in fact Wood-elves, squatting 
on flets hanging from the timbers of Lake-town as if they 
were in the dark depths of their Woodland Realm, but an 
explanation for their behaviour can be the presence of 
one individual: Linnon, their chief. He is tall and fair of 
countenance, but a strange light glows in his gaze, made 
sinister by the mud-smears on his cheeks and under his 
eyes.
There are seemingly two paths in front of the Player-
heroes: they can reveal themselves to the mud-men and 
request an audience with their chief, hoping that there 
is truth to the saying that all Elves are ‘Good People’, or 
they may try to sneak around, hoping to find something 
that will help them puzzle this situation out.
•	
Sneaking Around. The mud-men do not expect an 
intrusion in their darkened refuge, but it is easy to 
make noise when walking on wooden planks. The 
companions must pass several DC 18 Dexterity 
(Stealth) group checks or be heard by the Wood-
elves. Scouting the whole encampment requires a 
total of 3 checks - if the heroes make it, they find the 
cage where the mud-men are keeping Orsmid (see 
page 115).
•	
Confronting Linnon. To meet the chief of the mud-
men the companions need only reveal themselves. 
When they do, the Elves react coolly, slowly standing 
up one by one, leaving bows and spears close to hand 
among the flets. Then Linnon welcomes them and 
invites them to join him in his camp.

--- PAGE 115 ---
Erebor Adventures
114
Linnon, the Renegade
Linnon is a renegade Elf. He once belonged to the Wayward 
Elves, those of the Fair Folk who choose to enjoy life in 
Middle-earth to its fullest, while it lasts (see Rhovanion 
Region Guide, page 86). But he eventually found their 
lifestyle too soft for his adventurous tastes and, according 
to his version, he ‘left’. 
In truth, Linnon was expelled from the Woodland Realm 
when he murdered a group of trespassing Bardings, in an 
effort to convince his fellows that the weakness of mortals 
is to blame for the Long Defeat that the Elves are suffering 
Motivation & Expectations
Linnon has been expelled from the Woodland Realm for 
his violent means: the only thing he values is brute force. 
He views everyone as enemies and expects the heroes 
to treat him as a king — apply a -2 Expectation modifier 
unless the heroes bow and scrape before him.
Introduction
Linnon demands to know who the companions are and 
what they are doing here in ‘his’ dark domain. The speaker 
for the Company has Disadvantage on the required 
Traditions check.
Interaction
Linnon knows the party’s presence must have something 
to do with the Black Jewel. He knows that Orsmid used to 
possess the gem, and that the heroes seek it. Ultimately, 
the jewel is all that Linnon cares about, and he is growing 
restless with the thought that it might somehow fall into 
the hands of someone other than himself. He will reveal 
that Orsmid is his prisoner and is willing to talk about the 
conditions of his release. Though possessed of a keen wit, 
Linnon is ruthless but, from the point of view of a mortal, 
quite mad. He will occasionally slip into a bit of a riddle 
game during the conversation and expect the characters to 
keep up with him despite his archaic speech mannerisms.
Final Audience Check
The longer the companions speak with Linnon, the more 
evident the Elf’s madness becomes. The Final Audience 
check must be made with Riddle, in order to pick out a 
way forward between the thorns.
Failure. Linnon is frustrated with the lack of answers coming 
from the Company. He declares the companions guilty of 
trespassing. They are escorted by many Mud-men and put 
into hanging cages, next to the very one occupied by Orsmid.
10
in their struggle against the Enemy. Since that day, Linnon 
has lived outside the Woodland Realm, recently moving 
to the underside of Lake-town to initiate his most recent 
endeavour: to reclaim all the gems and precious stones 
that once belonged to his own kind and that are now being 
traded by greedy Men and Dwarves at the Glittering Gate. 
Linnon and his men are single-handedly responsible for the 
disappearance of a great deal of precious gems from the 
houses and storerooms of many a merchant in Lake-town.
Old Enemies
If the Player-heroes followed Eutaric during Part 3: Tales, Secrets and Lies and the Loremaster feels the 
need to wrap up that subplot without further complications, perhaps Linnon is in fact the murderer of Eutaric’s 
brother, and Eutaric can show up if needed to help the companions escape in Part 7: Flotsam and Jetsam.
Alternatively, if the Company roused him to deep suspicion, it may be Odvarr that shows up, having followed 
the same clues that the companions did. In this case, he only wants the location of the Mornamir from his old 
friend. See Black Treachery on page 116.

--- PAGE 116 ---
PART SEVEN FLOATSAM AND JETSAM
115
Dark Waters
Success by 0–5. Linnon only desires the jewel. If they 
think to offer it, Linnon agrees to release Orsmid to the 
companions if they can recover the gem and return it to 
him. They are imprisoned as above to confer with Orsmid 
before being later set loose to recover the gem.
Success by 6+. As above, but the companions may 
substitute any gem worth at least 50g for the Black Jewel 
to leave with Orsmid and far less trouble. 
Orsmid
Linnon’s men brought a half-drowned Orsmid to him a 
few days ago. By chance, Linnon discovered who the old 
man was, and kept him as a prisoner to get hold of the 
Mornamir. After the meeting with Linnon, the companions 
will likely find themselves in cages next to that occupied by 
the old man. The cages hang from a flet built at one of the 
highest points of the under-town, but they still graze the 
dark water of the lake. The only light comes from lanterns 
hanging from timbers above. If the heroes stay here for 
long, they soon realise that the water is rising as the storm 
intensifies around them.
Left here to rot, Orsmid is by now a frail and wet shadow 
of the man he was but a few days ago. A fall, a swim in 
the river, and rough treatment by the Elves have left him 
aching and weak. He is disheartened and his courage is 
failing. When the companions explain who they are and 
why they have come, Orsmid describes his version of 
events, including his personal history if necessary. 
“I fully expect to die in this place. There will be no 
peace for me. All I have attempted to build will come 
to naught but rust. At least these fiends will not lay 
their hands upon the Mornamir.”
What’s more, he confides in them that he had the Black 
Jewel on his person when he fell into the river and later 
brought to this place. As he was taken into these tunnels, 
he was able to briefly escape and hide away the jewel in 
a side passage.
The heroes can attempt to rouse Orsmid out of this dark 
reverie with a DC 15 Charisma (Persuasion) check. 
Heroes that think to pass him something to drink or eat 
gain Advantage on the check. Once they have successfully 
roused the old man, he will agree to guide them to the 
jewel, especially if they think to mention Magan’s 
dependence on his recovery.
– Part Seven – 
Flotsam and Jetsam
A cage may be enough to hold an old man, but an 
accomplished group of heroes should have little trouble 
escaping. Each hero can attempt to open the lock of the 
cage with a DC 16 Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) check; a 
failure alerts the Elf-guard at the top. Once free however, 
the hero must contend with the guard, despite not having 
any weapons!
If the hero can overcome the guard, they can claim the 
lantern and find the Company’s weapons in another nearby 
flet. A hero made Unconscious by Elf-magic falls into the 
raging waters below the piers, see Underwater! below.
8
Mud-man
Medium Elf
STR 
15 (+2)
DEX 
19 (+4)
CON 
16 (+3)
INT 
11 (+0)
WIS 
13 (+1)
CHA 
15 (+2)
Armour Class 18 (Deadly Elusiveness)
Hit Points 60 (8d8+24)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Acrobatics +6, Sleight of Hand +6, Stealth +6, 
Survival +3
Senses passive Perception 11
Languages Sindarin, Westron
Challenge 3 (700 XP)
Deadly Elusiveness. If the Mud-man does not wear any 
armour, their Armour Class is equal to 10 plus twice their 
Dexterity modifier.
Actions
Multiattack: The Mud-man makes two attacks with their 
Poisoned Dagger.
Poisoned Dagger: Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 
5 ft, one target. Hit: 6 (1d4+4) piercing damage plus 3 
(1d6) poison damage. The target must make a DC 15 
Constitution saving throw or become Poisoned until it 
finishes a short rest.
Enchanted Sleep (1/day). The Mud-man can target 
a creature within 30 ft and force it to make a DC 12 
Charisma saving throw or become Unconscious

--- PAGE 117 ---
Erebor Adventures
116
Underwater!
Heroes that fall into the water from anywhere in the 
undercity take 4 (1d8) bludgeoning damage each round 
as long as the storm lasts. The current twists and turns, 
slamming the companion into the underwater supports 
that hold the town up. It takes one round for the hero to 
reach the surface, at which point they can use an action to 
pull themselves up onto the supports again.
Recovering the Mornamir 
Once the heroes have escaped (or if they’ve been let out as 
part of an agreement to turn to Black Jewel over to Linnon) 
they must follow Orsmid to the side passage where he 
concealed his prize. 
Unfortunately, the last few hours have seen the rainstorm 
above reach the peak of its strength, and waves are hitting 
the stilts of Lake-town in fury. The heroes must navigate 
their way against strong blowing winds, always risking 
a fall into the raging waters. Companions must succeed 
at a DC 15 Intelligence (Investigation) check or gain 
a level of Exhaustion as they stumble from one storm-
lashed support to another. If they failed to raise Orsmid’s 
spirits in the pit, the Loremaster may opt to make them 
Miserable instead.
Once Orsmid gets them to the spot he was looking for, 
matters are only worse. Alas for the companions, certain 
rumours in Lake-town have their basis in truth…
The Monster
The ‘Guttermaw’ is no legend, but some bygone breed of 
serpent left to bloat deep beneath the earth where rivers 
are born. An ancient creature with a long, serpentine 
body, and a massive head with small eyes near the end 
of its pointed snout, it is a fearful monster, whose strange 
senses have perceived the presence of an unusual 
treasure like the Mornamir. The ‘Guttermaw’ has long 
feasted in the cold waters deep beneath the Long Lake, 
for long years feeding only on fish and such prey as it 
could catch along the lake’s edge. With the rebuilding of 
Lake-town, though, it began feeding upon the wayward 
miscreants of the city. 
Just as the hero in the passage is grasping the jewel, the 
Guttermaw strikes. The fish-like monster rises out of 
Black Treachery
If Odvarr has followed the Company to the under-
town, he creeps into the flet and knives the Elf-guard 
in the back. Then he cuts the ropes for any cages 
holding Player-heroes, causing them to fall into the 
churning water below. He spares only Orsmid and 
forces the smith to lead him to the hiding place of the 
Black Jewel.
Escaping the Cages Underwater
If a companion has not yet escaped from the cage, 
see Underwater! But the fall and the roaring water 
makes breaking the cage open easier. The hero can 
make a DC 16 Strength (Athletics) or Dexterity 
(Sleight of Hand) check with Advantage. Once free, 
it takes one round for them to swim to the surface.

--- PAGE 118 ---
117
Dark Waters
the water snapping at the companions with its powerful 
jaws. The companions must fight on the narrow beams 
of the under-city, it’s considered difficult terrain and 
a hero knocked Prone is likely to fall into the water (see 
Underwater!, above).
The Mornamir
The Black Jewel that so many people seek is an 
oblong gem about 6 inches long with many facets 
running tip-to-tip. One end is sharply pointed. It is 
an unusual dark silvery grey colour, and if one stares 
into its depths, it flickers with a pale fire. Crafted 
by the Elves in an earlier age of the world, the exact 
nature and history of the Mornamir is left for the 
Loremaster to decide. It may carry a curse of some 
kind, but it is certainly not tainted by Shadow; quite 
the contrary. If a character thinks to wield the jewel 
as a weapon, it should be treated as a dagger that 
does magical damage. When it strikes a creature of 
Shadow, a bright flash shines forth like a star. A 
hero can then spend Inspiration to add 1d12 radiant 
damage to the attack.
If the characters have reached an agreement with 
Linnon to turn over the Black Jewel, then the 
following sections need to be adjusted accordingly. 
The statue will never truly be complete as intended if 
Linnon ends up with the jewel. 
The Guttermaw
Huge Monstrosity
STR 
16 (+3)
DEX 
18 (+4
CON 
17 (+3)
INT 
11 (+0)
WIS 
14 (+2)
CHA 
13 (+1)
Armour Class 19 (Natural Armour)
Hit Points 193 (17d12+85)
Speed 30 ft, swim 60 ft.
Damage Resistances non-magical bludgeoning and 
piercing (see below)
Skills Athletics +10, Stealth +11, Survival +7
Senses passive Perception 13
Languages None
Challenge 12 (8,400 XP)
Horrible Strength. If the Guttermaw makes a successful 
melee attack, it may use its bonus action to cause extra 
damage equal to its Strength modifier (+6) to the target.
Scaly Hide. The Guttermaw is resistant to non-magical 
bludgeoning and piercing damage.
Water Dweller (Recharge 5-6). As a bonus action, if the 
Guttermaw can gain half-cover from a scenery feature, 
even if it would not normally provide it.
Actions
Iron Jaws. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 10 ft, 
one target. Hit: 20 (3d8+7) piercing damage.
Seize Victim. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 
5 ft, one target. Hit: 12 (1d12+6) bludgeoning damage. 
The target becomes Grappled (escape DC 20) and is held 
underwater and begins to suffocate. The Guttermaw 
can spend its action to cause 12 (1d12+6) bludgeoning 
damage to the Grappled creature.
Legendary Actions
The Guttermaw has 2 Legendary actions, given below. 
Only one legendary action option can be used at a time 
and only at the end of another creature’s turn. At the start 
of its turn it regains any spent Legendary actions.
Bite. The Guttermaw attacks with its Iron Jaws.
Constrict. The Guttermaw causes 12 (1d12+6) 
bludgeoning damage to a Grappled creature.

--- PAGE 119 ---
EPILOGUE THE PAST IS NEVER THAT
Erebor Adventures
118
– Epilogue – 
The next morning sees the Town Watch arrive to 
investigate the previous night’s violence. How they react 
will largely depend on the heroes’ behaviour throughout 
the adventure, along with the Company’s reputation, and 
the current status of Odvarr and Orsmid. The Master of 
Esgaroth will undoubtedly get involved and the characters 
will have to make their case one way or another. Do they 
reveal the existence of Elven robbers beneath Lake-town? 
The crafty Mud-men might hide elsewhere if the Town 
Watch starts patrolling the under-town. Will they accuse 
the master of the Guild of Artisans of trying to murder 
them? Odvarr can easily find someone willing to say 
that he was at the guild house all night. Do they reveal 
the provenance of the Black Jewel if they know it? Orsmid 
might admit the theft, especially if it seems that it will calm 
things down.
What about Linnon? And there’s a matter of a hoard of 
stolen gems somewhere beneath the Town-hall quarter 
waiting to be recovered. The Elves have a long memory, and 
it might be necessary to appease Celebril or pay restitution 
before the Mornamir can adorn the statue of Bard. These 
topics can provide opportunity for the Loremaster to create 
additional adventures.
The Completion of the Statue
One way or another, at the end of the summer, the 
statue of Bard is finished. It has been many lifetimes of 
Men since the North has seen such a work completed 
and the hearts of the citizens are brightened by it. If the 
companions are present at the dedication ceremony, they 
may reduce their temporary Shadow by 1 point. If they 
are there as official companions to Orsmid and Magan, 
they may instead reduce Shadow by 3 points. Note that 
the statue will count as completed only if the Mornamir 
is attached to it. 
The Flight Up to Lake-town
Once they have recovered the Black Jewel, the heroes will 
likely need to get back to Lake-town as quickly as possible. 
The piercing screams of the monster will have alerted the 
Silvan Elves to the Company’s escape, and they will soon 
be on their heels.
10
In order to have any chance at all, the heroes must first 
find their way out of the dark passageways. One or more 
of the characters must make a DC 15 Wisdom (Survival) 
check to find their way out to the surface. A failure should 
result in a confrontation with a few Mud-men.
A natural 1 means that a large force of Mud-men corner 
the Company in a dead-end passage. Their only escape 
option could be to dive into the lake and swim among the 
raging waves. 
When the Company makes it back above, they find the 
streets of Lake-town taking a pounding from rain, along with 
the crashing thunder and lightning of a powerful storm.

--- PAGE 120 ---
SHADOWS IN THE NORTH
ADVENTURING PHASE
PART ONE EXPECTED VISITORS
119
Shadows In the north
 -SHADOWS-
 IN THE NORTH
For heroes of level 11 or higher
•	
When: This adventure occurs early in 2962, in the 
last days of winter.
•	
Where: The Company begins in Dale, having been 
summoned by Balin. But desperate need will send 
them to the Mountains of Mirkwood, back to Dale, 
and eventually to the heart of Erebor.
•	
What: The characters are asked to investigate dangers 
gathering outside the city but then find more enemies 
within the walls of Dale.
•	
Why: The companions are among the people who 
saw the craftsman before the disappearance. Magan 
knows of their deeds, and she is confident they will be 
able to find Orsmid. 
•	
Who: Many of the Company’s foes and allies will 
play a part in this adventure, each revealing their true 
colours before the end.
•	
Themes: Foiled by the heroes at every turn, Morlach 
the Nazgûl tricks the Company into deadly danger 
and then attempts to have them executed. The 
companions must put their trust in their true friends 
and save both kingdoms.
Adventuring Phase
This adventure is divided into seven parts, from the 
Company meeting with Balin to the Ringwraith’s attack 
on Erebor.
Part One –  Expected Visitors
The Company meets Balin again and learns of a threat to 
both Dale and Erebor. Observant companions may realise 
that Gandalf has taken notice of these activities as well.
Part Two – The Vale of Bones
Deep within the Netherwood, a foe lies in wait. But the 
companions may find themselves hard pressed to bring 
news of this evil back to Dale.
Part Three – A Warm Welcome
Once they have returned to Dale, the Company finds that 
they — and Balin — are under arrest on false charges. 
Proving their own innocence is difficult and the king will 
pass judgement.
Part Four – The City of Bells
The companions must go into hiding within Dale. They 
will now need every friend that they have made in their 
course of their adventures to prevent disaster!
Part Five – Inside Information
A meeting will be held in depths of Erebor that will 
determine the fate of the North for many years to come. 
The companions must be present, no matter if the entire 
Mountain stands in their way!
Part Six – The Concert of Kings
King Bard and King Dáin meet and the decisions made 
here will echo across the land. But they are not alone… 
friend and foe have come to the Mountain and the assault 
by the Nazgûl begins.
Part Seven – Flight into the Mountain
The Arkenstone is in danger, and the Company has one 
final chance to defeat the Sorcerer of Forod and ruin the 
Nazgûl’s plans.
Epilogue
Hopefully, the Arkenstone has been saved and the peace 
between the Mountain and the City renewed. Otherwise, 
dark days await the North.
– Part One – 
Expected Visitors
Balin has sent word to the Company that he needs to speak 
with them on an urgent matter. He may send a raven to 
find them, or use one of the marvellous mechanical birds of 
his young friend, Thrun. It is best that the companions are 
reminded of Thrun, for he will soon play a part in this tale.
Balin’s House
Spring has not quite yet come to the city — it is a week or 
two away, and the town seems to be in the melancholy

--- PAGE 121 ---
Erebor Adventures
120
grip of winter still. In the evening glow, the streets of Dale 
seem especially sickly. The happiness of Dragontide and 
celebration of the anniversary and the raising of the statue 
seem already a fading and hollow memory. No one has seen 
King Bard in public in long weeks. Stray dogs pick through 
midden heaps on the street corners. The brightly-coloured 
paving in the main streets is lifting in places. On other streets, 
sections of once brightly-coloured cobblestones appear to 
have been entirely taken away. Who knows to what end?
The Dwarf ambassador is not immune to the changing 
mood in Dale. He has taken to moving his quarters on a 
regular basis to avoid trouble. Currently he resides in a 
tiny house between two boarded-up shops in the Quays.
Balin opens his small green door and blinks his tired 
eyes as the golden light of the waning sun falls on his 
face. ‘Here finally? Come in! Come in! Quickly now…’ 
He ushers the heroes into his small quarters. But he is 
not without courtesy — if the companions introduce any 
new members to him, he will bow low to the newcomers, 
stating ‘Balin, son of Fundin, at your service.’ He trusts 
that the Company has chosen wisely but will likely speak 
foremost to those he has met before.
If asked about his change in abode he will gruffly say he 
has a restless heart, and cannot settle in one place too 
long after years wandering. The truth is — and something 
of his true frame of mind can be revealed by a successful 
DC 13 Wisdom (Insight) check — he fears staying in one 
place too long in the current climate of unrest. His work in 
attempting to keep the peace between the cities has made 
him ever more enemies.
Balin’s home consists of two small rooms, with very little in 
the way of creature comforts. He offers his bed and a couple 
of plain wooden chairs to the Company to be seated, while 
he brings some small mugs of beer for everyone to drink. 
The Mark of the Wandering Wizard
A hero that is Keen-eyed or Suspicious (or perhaps 
a Small Hobbit) might chance to notice a strange 
mark scratched into the paint at the bottom of 
Balin’s door. It is a Gandalf rune, the mark of 
Gandalf.
If the companions point out the mark on his door, 
Balin’s grim mood will be temporarily lightened. 
However, the Wizard is not present and Balin will 
state that ‘In the meantime, we must do what we 
can.’
He seems distracted and mutters to himself while he gathers 
mugs. He seems to have developed the habit of touching his 
belt with his right hand every few minutes, as if reaching for 
his sword. He speaks:
‘Well now, no sense in beating about the bush, and I fear the 
hour grows late. I have news relating to our misfortunes of 
the last few years. I am now certain that there is evil at work 
in the city of Dale, and worse in the city of Erebor.’
Balin sits with a sigh and continues:
‘Yes. I am afraid that our misfortunes of the last few years 
are not the natural waxing and waning in the friendship of 
kings. Nor do I believe that there is simply some power 
struggle for the throne of Dale going on. Something darker 
is afoot, and I can finally prove it.’

--- PAGE 122 ---
PART TWO THE VALE OF BONES
121
Shadows In the north
‘I have sent word to my old friend, the Wizard Gandalf. 
If any will be able to help us now it is he. But I have not 
heard back from him yet, and I fear my messages will go 
unanswered. He is a wanderer and often cannot be found 
when he is most needed.’
When asked about the ‘proofs’ he is certain to have 
uncovered, Balin adds:
‘I am sure you know that not all the Orcs we fought at the 
Battle of Five Armies were slain. Many of that craven lot 
fled the field to hide in secret holds in the mountains, or 
were scattered east, in the wilderness far from Dale. This 
never troubled us much — Goblins and their ilk are a fact 
of life, and while we slay them wherever we can, I fear we 
will never be entirely rid of them.’
‘But recently word has come to Erebor of a great army, 
massing near to our eastern borders with the intent 
to strike. The Orc army seems to be hiding in the forest 
known as the Netherwood, to the south of the Iron Hills, 
to deceive us about their number. Many scouts have found 
sign of their passing, converging on this spot. What’s more 
is there are tales of some dark power, something greater 
than a stray Orc warlord that is gathering this army, with 
the intent to destroy both kingdoms.’
‘I have attempted to alert the notables of Dale to this 
alarming news, but to no avail. Indeed Lord Hakon seems 
careless of the threat, and I have been unable to reach 
King Bard himself. He spends many long hours alone in 
his chambers now, and Jofur will not spare any men. King 
Dáin seems equally untroubled, and leans too heavily on 
the wisdom of simply closing our gates.’
‘As for our current defences, I deem that we are weak now. 
I fear that we are in no state to repel an assault, should 
this Orc host reveal itself to be more than a phantom of 
fear. And so I need to ask you a favour, and it will risk life 
and limb.’
‘Go east and spy out the enemy’s encampment. Do what 
you can to interfere with any assembling of Goblins, 
though I fear you may find more than just Orcs out there. 
Here is a map that shows my best guess of where the 
Enemy is massing. Be careful! And report back to me, and 
only me, when you have done all you can!’
A Deceiving Plot
What Balin does not know is that the tale of the army has 
been fed to him by the dark forces that seek to ruin both 
Dale and Erebor. It is a trap. So troubled is Balin by the 
fortunes of the cities that he has been fooled — Morlach 
dearly wishes him to send the Company, since they have 
foiled so many of his plans. 
Morlach hopes the heroes will meet their doom there, 
or at least allow the Nazgûl to move more openly. The 
folk of Dale and Erebor will soon have more troubles to 
worry about, for the Sorcerer of Forod aims to goad the 
Mountain to wage war upon the Bardings!
But for now, the heroes know nothing other than that their 
old friend Balin has asked them to spy out the Enemy and 
report back. He has little in the way of treasure to offer 
mercenary members of the Company, but he promises to 
see them well-rewarded once Dáin comes to his senses.
– Part Two –
 The Vale of Bones
The Company prepares to travel to a forest of ill-omen 
in order to prove that an army gathers in hiding to 
assault Dale. The Player-heroes should gather whatever 
provisions they need, and then set about their destination. 
Balin provides the companions with a map, showing 
the preferred route to reach the Netherwood (see the 
illustration of Balin’s on page 122).
Then, the Dwarf urges discretion. ‘Go out through the 
Ravensgate to the north. Only when you are beyond the 
sight of the bell towers of Dale should you turn to the 
southeast.’

--- PAGE 123 ---
Erebor Adventures
122
The Upper Marches
The map leads the Company southeast across the Upper 
Marches. The hilly land is still in the grip of winter and 
the companions are unlikely to encounter any farmers or 
traders, especially if they stick to less frequented trails. 
The heroes will spend about ten days crossing the Upper 
Marches. This leg of the journey has a Peril Rating of 2 
and the companions will have 1d2 Journey Events. Some 
suggested events follow.
Hidden Holes (the Scout)
Voles, rabbits, shrews, badgers, and more dig burrows in 
which to winter. A misplaced step at the entrance to one of 
these holes can mean a tumble, twisted ankle, or worse. 
The Scout must make a successful Investigation check 
or find themselves hurt by a sudden fall. A failure means 
that the companion takes 4 (1d8) bludgeoning damage 
or, if the Scout rolls a natural 1, a level of Exhaustion 
instead.
The Howling in the Night (the Look-out)
In the dead of night the air is split by the sounds of 
raucous howls. The Devourer did not come south alone, 
and the starving Wolves of the Waste (see overleaf) can 
no longer wait to feast on Manflesh. As they draw closer 
to the Company’s camp, their bone-chilling howls can 
terrify even the most hardened hero. The Look-out 
must make an Perception check. On a success, the 
companions have enough time to gather up enough 
torches to keep the wolves at bay for now. If the Scout 
fails, the wolves attack. There are two wolves for each 
companion, or more if you’d like the heroes to face a 
stiffer challenge.
Gathering Supplies and Rumours
Setting up for their journey, the companions will find that the stores of Dale are not as they once were, and 
the shopkeepers and outfitters are less than helpful to any they consider a stranger (and all Dwarves, even 
those made thegn by King Bard himself, are strangers now). A successful DC 10 Wisdom (Insight) check 
reveals that folk are more scared than suspicious. 
Bard has not been seen in public for months and rumours of his death are on every corner. Wagging tongues 
say that Dáin will take the throne of Dale as well. After all, what claim did he have on Erebor! He just 
claimed it during the war. He is an ambitious Dwarf!
Others say that Thegn Jofur rules the palace now and is king in all but name. He is an extremely stern 
ruler, at least to judge by the increasing number of guard patrols. What will become of the once jolly City 
of Bells?
9

--- PAGE 124 ---
123
Shadows In the north
The Nether Marches
The heroes leave the hilly lands of the Upper Marches 
behind, continuing on towards the Netherwood. It takes 
four more days to reach the outskirts of the forest and they 
have one more Journey Event (Peril Rating 1).
Cold Wind From the East (All Companions)
As the companions make ready to camp one night, a 
fierce wind begins to blow from the East. Its fingers seem 
to get everywhere. It lifts up tents, blows out campfires, 
and reaches into the warmest of winter clothing to bring 
a chill to the heart. Each hero must make a Survival 
check, gaining a level of Exhaustion on a failure or two 
levels with a natural 1.
Stolen Game (Hunters)
One of the Hunters has brought down some game, only to 
have it stolen by another predator of the Nether Marches 
— a long-eared fox or a falcon, perhaps. The Hunter must 
make a Survival check, becoming Miserable for the rest of 
the journey on a failure.
Into The Netherwood
After days in the high grass, the companions come in sight 
of the Netherwood. The ancient stretch of woodland is a 
dark patch rising from the plains, the surviving fragment 
of a greater forest that the Dwarves of the Iron Hills 
diminished to feed their hungry furnaces. The remaining
trees stand tall and close together, as if preparing for a 
desperate last stand.
Balin’s map indicates a place where his agents spied a 
trail-head leading into the dark forest. It’s a lonesome hill, 
rising a mile from the western eaves of the forest. From 
there, the companions head towards the forest, looking 
for the Orc camp.
Once inside the woods, the heroes struggle to find a 
passage among the tightly-packed trees. Fallen leaves 
gather in great drifts against the rills of the land, obscuring 
pits that twist ankles and sharp ridges that stub toes. After a 
few hours of toilsome progress, the Company encounters a 
dry stream bed. Skeletal, dead branches crunch underfoot, 
and sudden bursts of wind lift dust and dirt in great choking 
clouds. Eventually, the dry riverway enters a steep valley 
descending towards the shadowy heart of the forest — the 
Company has found the Vale of Bones! 
Wolf of the Waste
Large Monstrosity (Warg-kind)
STR 
16 (+3)
DEX 
18 (+4)
CON 
19 (+4)
INT 
10 (+0)
WIS 
12 (+1)
CHA 
10 (+0)
Armour Class 14
Hit Points 57 (6d10+24)
Speed 40 ft
Skills Perception +3, Stealth +6
Senses passive Perception 13
Languages Wargspeech
Challenge 2 (450 XP)
Fear of Fire. The Wolf is fearful of fire. If a torch or 
other flame comes within 10 feet of it, the Wolf suffers 
Disadvantage on its attack rolls. In addition, the Wolf is 
not able to use its Pack Tactics trait. 
Pack Tactics. The Wolf has Advantage on an attack 
roll against a creature if at least one of the Wolf’s 
allies is within 5 feet of the creature and the ally isn’t 
Incapacitated.
Actions
Multiattack. The Wolf makes two attacks: one bite and 
one claw attack.
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 11 (2d6+4) piercing damage. If the target is a 
creature, it must make a DC 13 Strength saving throw or 
be knocked prone.
Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 10 (1d12+4) slashing damage.
11
9

--- PAGE 125 ---
Erebor Adventures
124
The Descent
Deep down in the vale, the companions can see tiny 
flickering lights: torches, perhaps campfires. The safest 
way to descend towards the lights is to follow the dry 
stream’s course. Alternatively, the heroes can climb down 
along the rocky sides of the dale.
•	
Heroes that follow the stream bed must pass a single 
DC 10 Strength (Athletics) check to keep their feet.
•	
Heroes that prefer to climb down along the sheer 
sides of the valley must make a series of four DC 
15 Strength (Athletics) checks instead, descending 
safely for a measure on each success. If the Company 
reaches the bottom of the valley by climbing down, 
they find another entrance to the Dark Passages (see 
page 126).
Failing an Athletics check causes the companion to slip and 
slide down for several yards, taking 3 (1d6) bludgeoning 
damage. Rolling a natural 1 means the hero falls for the 
remaining distance (20 feet for every check remaining).
Bones and Curses
At the bottom of the climb the dale widens into a roughly 
circular opening, measuring several hundreds of yards 
across. The overhanging walls are a hundred feet tall, 
filling the area with darkness. Huge rocks, piles of 
deadwood, and assorted debris fallen from above clutter 
the terrain, turning it into a maze.
But what alarms the heroes the most is the almost 
overpowering stench of rotting flesh, Goblin-filth, and 
animal reek: the Vale of Bones is a blighted place, and 
the companions must all pass a Corruption check (DC 15 
Wisdom saving throw) each day, or gain 1 point of Shadow.
The companions can now explore the Vale of Bones, 
and may encounter any of the locations described 
below, before they reach the lair of the Devourer, at the 
Loremaster’s discretion:
The Goblin Camp
Companions that choose to investigate the faint lights 
spied from above will quickly realise that the vale is 
not the camp of some great army waiting to sack Dale. 
Instead, they find a mostly empty encampment, inhabited 
only by a few dozens emaciated Goblins wandering in 
small groups among poorly flickering heaps of sticks and 
burning torches. The Goblins shiver and bicker in the 
dark, while attending to the cooking of meagre meals, like 
a single skewered rat, or a pot of watery soup of roots and 
other, less identifiable ingredients. No one is watching for
intruders.

--- PAGE 126 ---
125
Shadows In the north
Stealthy heroes approaching any one of the small 
gatherings will overhear the Goblins make bitter remarks 
about their current poor state and fortune:
‘He’ll eat us soon enough. We need to leave here! I keep 
telling you!’
‘No no no that’s not right! He’s been promised a meal of 
Man-flesh! He won’t eat us if we do as we’re told!’
‘He will so eat us! He’s always hungry! He ate Gorbag and 
Uzbug and Burritz and Nashog and all the others! He ate 
the bats! And we was supposed to be friends with them!’
‘Trust me! I know what I ‘eard. The spook promised him 
Man-flesh!’
‘Urgh that spook! What’s he want with us, I wonder?’
‘Shut up, you! You’re talking about things beyond your 
station! Is that rat done yet?’
‘I’m so hungry!’
‘Well you’re only skinny and little! Imagine how hungry 
he gets! He’s huge! With only Goblins to eat!’
‘When we ran away, did you reckon he’d eat so many of 
us?’
‘Shut up! This rat’s as done as it’s ever gonna be!’
 
There are several other fires scattered amongst the 
huge boulders that litter the gorge floor. The Company 
will hear similar conversations at all of them — the 
theme is always food and hunger, and how to avoid 
being eaten. At one fire the Company find a Ravenous 
Goblin passed out from hunger, while his fellow makes 
preparations to skin and eat him, muttering all the 
while about ‘doin’ it quick so the master doesn’t gobble 
us both up first’.
Huge Dead Wings
The Company stumbles across a pile of what at first 
appears to be great sheets of dusty leather piled up 
with old bones. Closer inspection reveals these are the 
desiccated remains of a Giant Bat’s wings. There is no sign 
Ravenous Goblin
Small humanoid (Orc-kind)
STR 
6 (-2)
DEX 
18 (+4)
CON 
10 (+0)
INT 
10 (+0)
WIS 
14 (+2)
CHA 
8 (-1)
Armour Class 14
Hit Points 3 (1d6)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Perception +4, Stealth +6
Senses darkvision 60 ft, passive Perception 14
Languages Orcish, Westron
Challenge 1/8 (25 XP)
Stealthy. The Goblin may use its bonus action each round 
to Hide
Actions
Jagged Knife. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 6 (1d4+4) piercing damage.
Reactions
Biter. When struck, the Goblin may use its reaction to 
make a bite attack: +1 to hit, reach 5 ft, 5 (2d4) slashing 
damage.

--- PAGE 127 ---
Erebor Adventures
126
of a torso, legs, or head. If they really wish to investigate, 
there are the remains of three Giant Bats here.  Some of 
the wing bones have been crushed with what seems an 
enormous force.
Dark Passages
Heroes who creep close to the cliff walls along the dry 
stream might find their way into one of the underground 
passageways that riddle the walls of the vale. It is pitch 
black in these narrow tunnels, and the companions 
might be surprised by hungry Goblins at any moment. 
However, if a hero can make either a DC 15 Intelligence 
(Investigation or Riddle) check, the Company can find a 
safe way forward and upward, until they reach a crack in 
the rock walls of the passage, opening above the Goblin 
Camp. If they manage to do this, the heroes can hear the 
conversations of the ravenous Goblins from their hidden 
position, without risking discovery.
But there is a price to be paid for this good fortune — if 
they press on beyond the opening, when the heroes reach 
the far end of the vale, the rocky floor suddenly gives way 
and they tumble into the chamber of the Devourer! (See 
An Ancient Enemy, below).
The Skull Piles
As they proceed towards the opposite end of the vale, 
beyond the Goblin Camp, the companions come to realise 
they are walking on bones. The misshapen skulls of 
Goblins, their ribs, and thigh bones cover the floor. There 
is no army here, for this is a charnel house. Dried up 
sword belts, the tattered remains of Orc-mail, and broken 
weapons jut out as floating debris in a sea of bleached 
bones. The darkness beyond torch or lantern light is 
now absolute, and the gorge walls close in tighter as the 
Company pick their way through the bones toward the 
back of the defile.
An Ancient Enemy 
Once the heroes reach the far end of the vale, suddenly 
and seemingly from all around comes a rasping voice, 
gravelly and arid. 
‘So! You come as I was told you would. Good. Too long 
has it been since I ate better than Goblin. Man-flesh is 
better! Come close… Let me smell you before I gobble you 
up!’
If the Company have any way to make light, now is the 
time to risk it: if they illuminate the chamber they will see 
a horrific sight. A huge, half-starved, albino Wolf-thing 
with crooked hind legs lies at the end of the valley. 
The entire body of this huge and disgusting beast bears the 
marks of ancient injuries, so much that the thing could be 
mistaken for a carcass if it wasn’t for the glint in its small, 
predatory eyes.
It slowly raises itself up, and its fur hangs in tatters. Great 
bald patches run across its bony head. Its mouth is stained 
with old blood. The stench is almost unbearable. Huge black 
flies rise lazily into the air from their nests in its stinking pelt.
‘They call me the Devourer now, for I have eaten all my 
servants. Even those who served me well, even those who 
carried me here from the battlefield. And now I will eat 
you, and the master will mend my legs and I will return to 
Dale and the Mountain and finish what we began!’
‘The Nazgûl will have the jewel of the Dwarves that the Dark 
Lord wants and the Mountain will fall. The bell towers will 
be pulled down, and all the Goblins and Bats and Wolves 
from miles around will return to feast! I will grow fat on the 
flesh of Men and Dwarves! So is it promised and so shall it 
be! Just as you were promised to me, fools…’
‘Die now, dinner!’
 The Devourer lunges forward to attack.
Fight or Be Eaten
The companions have fallen into a trap, and must now 
defeat the monster, or die trying. The battle they are about 
to fight is made more challenging by the unique features of 
its terrain, but they might be able to exploit the weakness 
of the creature that is trying to eat them:
•	
Minions: The Devourer is joined by two Ravenous 
Goblins for each hero (or more, if the Company is 
especially effective in battle).
•	
The Darkness: The darkness of the Vale of Bones is 
unnaturally deep. All companions, even Elves and 
Dwarves, have Disadvantage on attack rolls unless 
they wield a torch. Heroes who can provide magical

--- PAGE 128 ---
127
Shadows In the north
light can negate this effect. The Devourer and the 
Goblins are not affected by the darkness.
•	
The Footing: The floor of the area is strewn with bones 
of all sizes, making it hard to move about without 
risking to trip and fall: the entire area is considered 
difficult terrain. The Devourer and his minions do not 
suffer penalties due to the footing, being well used to 
the environment of the vale.
A Wizard Unlooked For
At some point during the fight (when the Loremaster 
deems it most appropriate), Gandalf and Balin arrive to 
help the companions: the two left Erebor some time after 
the heroes, having realised they sent the Company right 
into a trap, and the Grey Wizard has employed every trick 
up his sleeve to speed up their pursuit.
So, just as things seem the most desperate, a bright 
white light shines out, illuminating the horror that is the 
Devourer and its blighted lair. The monster is Stunned 
and Blinded for a round, and a booming voice is heard 
encouraging  the companions on. “Strike now while it is 
weakened! Slay the beast!”.
The Devourer
Huge Fiend
STR 
25 (+7)
DEX 
18 (+4)
CON 
28 (+9)
INT 
10 (+0)
WIS 
15 (+2)
CHA 
10 (+0
Armour Class 14
Hit Points  186 (12d12+108)
Speed 10 ft
Skills Perception +6
Damage Resistances bludgeoning, piercing, and 
slashing
Senses darkvision 60 ft, passive Perception 16
Languages Wargspeech, Common
Challenge 12 (8,400 XP)
Fell Spirit. The Devourer can use a bonus action to gain 
10 (3d6) temporary hit points. 
Horrible Strength. If the Devourer makes a successful 
melee attack, it may use its bonus action to cause 
additional damage equal to its Strength modifier (+7) to 
the target.
Pack Tactics. The Devourer has Advantage on 
attack rolls against a creature if at least one of the its 
allies is within 5 feet of the creature and the ally isn’t 
Incapacitated.
Stench. Any creature that starts its turn within 5 feet of 
the Devourer must succeed on a DC 17 Constitution 
saving throw or be Poisoned until the start of its next 
turn. On a success, the creature is immune to the 
Devourer’s Stench for 1 hour.
Actions
Multiattack. The Devourer makes three attacks: one bite 
and two claw attacks.
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 10 ft, one 
target. Hit: 14 (2d6+7) piercing damage. If the target is a 
creature, it must make a DC 17 Strength saving throw or 
be knocked prone.
Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 10 ft, one 
target. Hit: 13 (1d12+7) slashing damage
Legendary Actions
The Devourer has 2 Legendary actions, given below. Only 
one legendary action option can be used at a time and 
only at the end of another creature’s turn. At the start of 
its turn it regains any spent Legendary actions.
Bite Attack. The Devourer makes a Bite attack.
Move. The Devourer can move up to its speed.

--- PAGE 129 ---
PART THREE A WARM WELCOME
Erebor Adventures
128
If the Company still fares too badly, Balin will stride 
intobattle to assist them, screaming the Dwarven battle-
cry: ‘Baruk Khazâd! Khazâd ai-mênu!.’ See page 24 of the 
Lonely Mountain Region Guide.
After the battle, the Company learn something more of 
Gandalf’s mind. The Wizard is aware that something very 
wrong is occurring in Dale, and dark forces are at work. 
He will share this information and is keen to hear anything 
that the companions learned from the Devourer or
the Goblins.
If a companion mentions the rumour of a Nazgûl being 
involved then he sighs heavily:
‘So the Ringwraiths have taken an interest in the North 
again and dare to move against the kingdoms of Men and 
Dwarves. But at least we know now… perhaps we can set 
a trap for them, one to make it many long years before the 
Dark Lord chances his most powerful servants again.’
Gandalf will confirm the guesses of any companions 
who venture that the ‘jewel of the Dwarves’ must be the 
Arkenstone. ‘It is truly the heart of the Mountain, and 
has a power upon any who look upon it. The theft of the 
Arkenstone might mean war in the North.’
After the impromptu council, Gandalf stands up. ‘Now 
all of you must return to Dale. When you arrive there, 
you will certainly be the target of any secret allies of the 
Enemy. But it is not quite yet time for open defiance… 
weather any storm that comes your way, so that you can 
draw the traitors out into the open. And remember that 
hope may arrive at the last hour, unlooked for.’
– Part Three – 
A Warm Welcome
After uttering his final, mysterious words, the Wizard 
leaps up on his horse and departs. Balin shrugs.
‘Well, there he goes again… we might as well be on our 
way back to Dale.’
Companions heading west towards Dale soon discover 
that travelling along a route recently blazed by a Wizard 
is a good thing: the companions do not encounter any 
danger on the trip back.
After sometime less than two weeks, the greatest city in 
the North finally appears on the horizon by the end of the 
last day, and the heroes can reach the Traders Gate before 
sundown.
At the Gate
As the companions approach the gate, they will notice a 
larger number of guards than usual. Those who call Dale 
home recognise that these are Jofur’s men, who seem 
to have now replaced those hired by King Bard at every 
important post. If the heroes are strangers, Balin notices 
the change and informs them about it under his breath as 
the Company draws closer to the checkpoint.
In prior days, such heroes might have easily passed 
into Dale with either a curt nod or an appreciative wave 
(depending on the Company’s reputation in the city), but 
now they are stopped at the gate. The guards look over the 
companions, referring to a folded sheaf of papers again 
and again. Finally, their leader holds up his hand, and a 
dozen guards gather close by.
‘Balin, son of Fundin, and his known associates,’ 
announces the guard captain, ‘You are wanted folk… 
charged with murder and treason. You must come with 
us.’
The heroes have only moments to decide what to do. 
Possibly to their surprise, Balin surrenders at once. He 
certainly doesn’t want to raise a blade against Dalemen; 
besides, he trusts Gandalf’s promises of forthcoming 
aid. See the appropriate section below to play out the 
consequences of the Player-heroes’ actions.
Surrender
If the Company chooses to give themselves up and be 
taken into custody, then they are stripped of all weapons 
and equipment. The guards place heavy iron manacles on 
each hero, and lead them into the city. The companions 
spend an uncomfortable night in the cells, given bread 
and water but nothing else. They rarely see a guard, and 
when they do, the guards do not speak. 
Go ahead to The Trial, below.
9

--- PAGE 130 ---
129
Shadows In the north
Flight
If the companions choose to flee, they will be leaving Balin 
to his fate alone — a Misdeed worth at least 1 Shadow 
point. They will be pursued, and a bell can be heard 
ringing from the gatehouse. More guards are coming!
The escape attempt should be run as a prolonged 
action requiring at least 9 group checks — DC 15 
Strength (Athletics) or Dexterity (Stealth) to succeed. 
Accumulating 3 or more failures means a group of guards 
(one Guard Commander and at least two City Guards for 
each hero, see page pages 48-9 of the Lonely Mountain 
Region Guide) has caught up to them. 
While the Company is being pursued for evil reasons, 
the guards themselves are innocent pawns. Slaying any 
of them, even in the heat of battle, is a Misdeed worth at 
least 3 Shadow points.
If the Company is overtaken, they are manacled and 
dragged off in chains to the gaol as above. If they escape, 
then a mysterious raven will find them the next day. The bird 
doesn’t speak, but delivers a note and flies away without 
waiting for a response. The note outlines that Balin is on 
trial for murder and will likely be sentenced to death. It 
urges the heroes to return to Dale and testify on his behalf.
If the Company remains in hiding, another note delivered 
in the same way reads ‘Look for a light on the south wall 
just before dawn. A friend will be waiting.’ See Part Four 
- The City of Bells.
Fight
Heroes who draw swords immediately against the guards 
will find themselves in a pitched battle. In addition to the 
Guard Commander, there are at least two City Guards 
for each hero. The Guards will use their Silver Whistle 
feature generously, summoning more aid. Sooner or later, 
the Company will find themselves outnumbered and possibly 
outmatched. Hopefully, the Player-heroes will surrender at 
some point, before they are defeated or before they shed too 
much innocent blood.  Any companions still living (even those 
Unconscious) will soon find themselves in a cell, as above. 
Once the battle-lust subsides, the Loremaster should 
assign an appropriate amount of Shadow points for the 
battle. the Company might wish to save Dale from the 
Enemy, but the guards, while acting under erroneous 
orders, are not servants of that Enemy. See The Trial, next.
The Trial
The next morning, shortly after the dawn light slants 
into their cells, the Company are taken in chains to the 
Royal Palace of Dale, to hear the king’s justice. At the 
far end of the main hall, Bard sits on his carved throne, 
11

--- PAGE 131 ---
Erebor Adventures
130
wearing the golden crown of Dale upon a troubled brow. 
Before him on the raised dais sit Thegn Jofur, Lord Hakon, 
and an assortment of other minor nobles. A crowd of 
onlookers has gathered, and more will arrive as word of 
the accusations spread across town.
Balin is brought in, in heavier chains than the companions. 
He appears battered and bruised, a grim expression on his 
face. When the Dwarf takes his place in front of the dais, 
Thegn Jofur looks briefly at Bard, as if expecting a reaction 
from him — when he realises that the king is remaining 
completely motionless, Jofur stands, proceeding to read 
the charges.
‘Balin of Erebor and companions. You are hereby charged 
under the laws of Dale with the crimes of treason and 
murder. You have willingly and maliciously committed 
capricious crimes to the detriment of the reign of King 
Bard, and have grievously wounded the people of Dale, 
and grossly endangered them with your perfidy.’
At this point he stops and shuffles his papers. He appears 
less than comfortable, and indeed gives the companions 
an uncharacteristic pained look. He pulls himself together, 
regaining his usual haughty demeanour.
‘On behalf and in the name of King Bard I call you to 
answer the charge. How do you plead?’
Balin simply stands in the dock and looks straight ahead. He 
will refuse to speak throughout the trial. Lord Hakon stands.
‘This is ridiculous. Get on with it Jofur. They are clearly 
guilty! I have said so on many occasions that these ne’er 
do wells and vagabonds should be at last cast from our 
city! We have been too tolerant of their kind! Of Dwarves, 
of strangers, and wanderers! Of those from the East…’
He looks meaningfully at Jofur at this point.
The Litany of Charges
At this point anything that the companions have done 
that could be twisted against them should be brought up. 
Agents of Mordor have spied on them throughout their 
time in Dale and Erebor. Any time they were in public, 
or could have been spied upon in secret, there will be 
evidence against them. The Loremaster should be careful 
to cite only events that the Nazgûl or their agents could 
have known about, but be mindful that the Sorcerer’s 
powers are beyond the limits of mortal agents. The 
charges should be shocking, and obviously a twisting of 
prior events where the Company was doing good. Inciting 
their tempers is part of the plan.
Here are some suggestions.
The Silver Needle: The companions may be blamed for the 
destruction of Kelda’s shop or her death. As appropriate, 
they might be charged with the slaying or beating of Vig, 
Kasper, Swain, or Longo. If Maugor was seen in public, they 
will be charged with smuggling an Orc into Dale.
Of Hammers and Anvils: If a fight broke out at the Toy-
market, the companions will be charged with inciting a 
riot. Depending on the outcome of the adventure they 
might be listed as co-conspirators with the traitorous Lord 
Gunvar or in league with Dwarf assassins who slew the 
Barding noble.
To Dungeons Deep: If the Coat of Silver Mail was 
delivered to the Dwarves (whether by judging it to be their 
rightful possession or as a diplomatic overture), then the 
heroes are charged with surrendering the heirloom of King 
Bard to a foreign power. If the armour went missing in the 
course of the adventure, they are charged with stealing it.
Sleeping Dragons Lie: If the Company was unable to save 
Lord Elstan, they will be charged with his disappearance. 
If Skarf Skulson was slain, they are liable for his murder. 
And, perhaps worst of all, the companions are charged 
with conspiring with Dwarves and treating with a Dragon 
— this last charge causes audible gasps in the courtroom.
Dark Waters: The heroes might be charged with the 
death of Orsmid or Odvarr, inciting trouble in the Elven 
Quarter, the theft of the jewels of Esgaroth, vandalizing 
the very foundations of Lake-town, and harbouring 
fugitives from the Elvenking. These charges are not 
brought directly against the Company, but are delivered 
as examples of their behaviour in the free city of Lake-
town.
It is possible that the Company will need to be restrained 
or subdued if they become too agitated in the face of these

--- PAGE 132 ---
131
Shadows In the north
fake charges. The guards will only briefly hesitate before 
clubbing the shackled prisoners on Hakon’s nod.
The Conspirators’ Masterstroke
Once the heroes’ various wrongdoings are recounted 
before the king, Lord Hakon reveals the main crime with 
which they are charged:
‘I have kept this accusation for last, as I wanted you here 
assembled to evaluate these criminals for their past 
misdeeds, before we even considered their most nefarious 
action. My king, let it be put on record that the accomplices 
of Balin, son of Fundin, are accused of murdering Thrun, 
the toy-maker and friend to all, who was discovered near 
his workshop two mornings ago, strangled to the point of 
death!’
either permanently imprisoned or executed forthwith. 
What say you, Your Highness?’
King Bard remains morose and unresponsive, as if his 
thoughts are elsewhere. Eventually he sighs and says ‘Do 
you have anything to say in your defence?’
Thrun’s Tragic Termination
The report of Thrun’s death has not been exaggerated, 
unfortunately. In fact, the cunning Dwarf was 
murdered by an agent of the Sorcerer of Forod, to 
help Lord Hakon’s attempt to stage Balin’s treason. 
A lover of street food and drink, Thrun was easily 
poisoned by a fake street vendor of ale.
The drug-laced drink asphyxiated him as soon as he 
returned home, and made him appear as if someone
strangled him. Thrun didn’t die right away though: 
the Dwarf managed to return to the streets, only to 
collapse after a few yards, in front of a small crowd. 
In his last moments the toy-maker was delirious, and
called out to the companions for help several times. 
The assembled crowd is now very large, and the voices that 
are raised in outrage are almost deafening. The guards 
tighten their ranks to keep a distance from the onlookers 
and the accused. Lord Hakon continues:
‘I am not bringing about these accusations lightly. Thrun 
himself accused them with his own words several times in 
his agony, in front of several witnesses.’
‘It is now clear from my investigation that these reckless 
adventurers have been working with the Dwarf, Balin, in 
an attempt to undermine the crown of Dale, and seize it 
for Erebor. I recommend that he and his conspirators be 
The Nazgûl Watches
Depending on the disposition of the players, the 
Loremaster may wish to tip the hand of the Sorcerer 
now. The heroes might get a sense of chill sweeping 
through the courtroom, or see a black-clad figure 
in an open doorway out of the corner of their eyes. 
For some groups, this may be too much. Others may 
appreciate a clear clue of what is going on.
Impressing the King
At this point, the companions have little more than their 
cunning and reputation to use against the charges they 
face. While the king’s judgement may be clouded by 
his grief, and possibly by the spells of the Ringwraith, 
he has not completely lost his wits. The entries below 
include Expectation modifiers for various arguments the 
Company might put forth.
The Company has a single chance to soften Bard’s mood. 
The heroes have no need of a formal Introduction, but if 
instead the Company’s spokesperson spends that time 
reminding the assembled nobles and the king of the 
companions’ previous interactions, then the atmosphere 
of the courtroom might be lightened. The spokesperson 
must make a Traditions check at Disadvantage. On a 
success, apply a +1 modifier in addition to setting the 
difficulty of the Final Audience check.
Now the companions must address or refute the charges 
that they face. The following are various approaches that 
they may take.
•	
The heroes will certainly assert that they were not in 
Dale at the time of the murder. Unfortunately, their 
alibi is scoffed at by Lord Hakon and other nobles, 
and without any witnesses (‘Gandalf the Wizard you 
say? Well, if he was there where is he now? Gone you 
say. How convenient!’) no roll will convince King Bard.

--- PAGE 133 ---
Erebor Adventures
132
Pursuing this argument provides a -1 Expectation 
modifier.
•	
Similarly, for this scene the truth — that the Nazgûl 
plot to steal the Arkenstone and bring both Dale and 
Erebor to ruin — will result in open laughter from Lord 
Hakon and other nobles. Hakon has already salted 
this ground, and the truth will not find root here. 
Insistence on supernatural occurrences will win a -2 
modifier.
•	
The heroes might wish to call up witnesses, but 
Lord Hakon refuses to delay the trial to track down 
‘wandering merchants of the East’ (Katun or any of 
her followers) or ‘itinerant craftspeople’ (Orsmid or 
Magan). It goes without saying that the testimony of 
any Dwarf on their behalf is completely unacceptable. 
•	
If the Company names Lord Elstan, then King Bard 
sits upright. If Elstan survived the Dragon-hunt, he 
retired to a cottage west of the city. The king motions 
to one of his guards. The old knight will arrive in a 
couple of hours. Hopefully the court will not be out of 
patience with the companions by then. If Lord Elstan 
can speak on behalf of the Company, his testimony 
provides a +3 modifier.
•	
The best chance that the companions have is to 
poke holes at the various charges that Hakon has 
trumped up. Careful questioning might point out 
inconsistencies, or reveal that Hakon’s information 
must have come from a supernatural source. 
Depending on how much the heroes can make Lord 
Hakon stumble, award them a +1 or +2 modifier.
Throughout the defence, Balin remains silent. He will not 
aid the heroes in his or their defence, but neither will he 
hinder them.
The Judgement 
Sooner or later, King Bard will raise his hand. He has 
heard enough. He stands to proclaim judgement over the 
defendants. Make a Final Audience check.
Failure. ‘You are guilty enough of the various charges 
assembled against you. Tomorrow 
morning you will be executed as criminals and traitors.’ 
See The Pits, below.
Success by 0-5. ‘I know not the rights and wrongs of men 
nor women’s hearts. But you shall not be slain for these 
crimes, if indeed crimes they are. I care not.’ He turns to 
the captain of the guard. ‘Take them to the Pits, and let 
them live there, beyond my sight.’ See The Pits, below.
Success by 6+. ‘I cannot vouchsafe your guilt in these 
matters. But I do not doubt that trouble follows in your 
wake. You are exiled from the city, for the period of one 
year and one day.’ He turns to the captain of the guard. 
‘Escort them to the gates and let it be known that they are 
not allowed to return, upon pain of death.’ See Exile from 
Dale, below.
If King Bard has sentenced Balin and the Company to 
death, then Lord Hakon smiles smugly. He has done his 
true master’s bidding. 
If the Company has been sentenced to the deep cells 
or exiled from the city, then Hakon is more peevish. He 
sweeps from the courtroom, declaring ‘This is not over!.’ 
Thegn Jofur nods meaningfully to the companions as they 
are escorted away.
9
Jofur’s Plea
It is possible that the Company may choose to adopt 
the stoic silence of Balin. In this case, Jofur will take
a chance and approach them, whispering fiercely:
 ‘Your lives are on the line! You MUST impress 
the king. You can’t get out of this fix, but you must 
avoid the executioner’s sword! Convince him!’
This will give away that Jofur is not the villain of 
the piece, but now may be the appropriate time to 
reveal it.
The Pits
After the trial, guards escort the Company and Balin 
out of the main hall of the Royal Palace, at spearpoint 
if necessary. They are swiftly taken out of sight of any 
onlooker, and led to the Pits, the deepest gaol of Bard’s 
palace. By the number of steps they climb down, 
the companions have the sense that they are deep 
underground. Some players may enjoy a game of trying

--- PAGE 134 ---
133
Shadows In the north
to remember the many twists, turns, and staircases that 
they take.
Eventually, the companions and their jailers reach a 
narrow corridor, with doors of wrought iron and heavy 
wood set into cold stone. One of the doors is unlocked, 
revealing a dark and cold cell beyond. The Company is 
pushed in, and the door is closed with an ominous thud 
and the click of a lock. The guards take Balin further into 
the dungeon.
Time passes painfully slowly. There is a tiny grille in the 
thick door that shows a short length of damp, torch-lit 
corridor and nothing else. Balin is imprisoned elsewhere 
— even if the heroes call for him, there is no response. There 
is a steady dripping of water, and the occasional drifting, 
distant sound of the guards making merry somewhere out 
of sight.
Escape?
Some time in the bitter watches of the night, Thegn Jofur 
appears at the door to their cell. He looks extremely 
nervous as he shows them the key through the door, to 
make clear his intention and prevent them from attacking 
him as soon as he opens the cell.
‘Listen! We have but a short time! You must go from this 
door in this direction…’ he gestures to his left, ‘Follow the 
corridor, go down the stairs. Go quietly through the guard 
room — they are all sleeping off the drugged wine I gave 
them. Take the right-hand passage out and then go up two 
flights of stairs. You will come to a canal, with a dock. Find 
a craft or swim out. Go! Just before dawn, look for a light 
on the southern wall. He will help you! Go! I must find 
Balin now.’
With this, he unlocks the door. 
The Shadow of the North
In the corridor, Jofur hands the companions a small 
bundle containing some bread and a flask. There might 
even be a few simple weapons as well (a few daggers and 
knives). But as Jofur reaches out, the light from the torches 
grows suddenly dim and there is a chill in the air. Jofur 
drops the bundle, and the flask shatters. Blood-red wine 
stains the stones of the corridor. ‘Go! Go! You must fly! 
There is no time!’ he shrieks.
At the end of the corridor a hooded and robed figure 
appears, a corroded iron sword gripped in its mailed 
hand. The air about the figure flickers with black fire. An

--- PAGE 135 ---
Erebor Adventures
134
excruciatingly high-pitched wail slices through the air, 
rendering fear in all. The Sorcerer has used his Thing of 
Terror feature, see page 154.
Jofur gestures desperately for the companions to flee. ‘Run 
you fools!’ He draws his sword and grabs a torch from the 
wall. Then, with the battlecry of his Easterling ancestors, 
he charges towards the Nazûl. It is time to go.
may choose to make the companions swim through the 
freezing water and tough it out in a swim through the dark 
in the fast flowing river (causing each hero to gain at least 
one level of Exhaustion). You might add any number of 
complications to this scene:
•	
The heroes might need to make DC 10 Dexterity 
(Stealth) checks to get past the guards.
•	
The players might be expected to have remembered 
Jofur’s instructions, or the scout must make a DC 15 
Intelligence (Investigation) check to get back on 
track. Failure means all the companions gain a level 
of Exhaustion from wandering the lightless tunnels for 
hours.
•	
The Nazgûl might decide to pursue them through the 
tunnels. The Loremaster might then have the heroes 
make DC 15 Dexterity (Acrobatics) or Strength 
(Athletics) checks to dodge the alerted guards, a DC 
15 Intelligence (Riddle) check to pick the right way 
in the maze, and another DC 15 Strength (Athletics) 
check to put enough space between them and the 
Sorcerer to escape. Of course they will escape, but it 
will be by the skin of their teeth and there should be 
real tension until they reach the River.
Exile from Dale
If the Company was lucky enough to earn this result, armed 
guards soon escort them from the guardroom, through the 
lavishly appointed rooms of the palace and out onto the 
city streets. As the escort proceeds, certain guards hang 
back at designated checkpoints whilst other guards join the 
party. Perceptive heroes might soon realise that they are 
soon surrounded by only Jofur’s hand-picked guards. There 
is no sign of Balin — he was taken a different way.
Thegn Jofur joins the group as they approach the city 
gates. While he sternly lectures the heroes on receiving 
such a light sentence for their various crimes, he passes 
a scrap of parchment to one of the heroes. Once outside 
of the city, their gear is returned to them and the captain 
of the guard repeats King Bard’s injunction against 
returning for a year and a day.
When the heroes can examine the note, it says ‘Look for a 
light on the south wall just before dawn. A friend will be 
waiting.’
The Company Remains
Exceptionally bold companions might not allow Jofur 
to stand alone against the Ringwraith. But they 
are largely unarmed and certainly unarmoured. It 
is unlikely that they will defeat the Nazgûl and the 
corridor is too narrow for them to aid Jofur much. He 
will again beg them to run.
If they insist on fighting, perhaps using torches, then 
a Loremaster might allow them a slight victory. 
The Sorcerer relents for a moment and Jofur and the 
heroes can make a mad dash for it. Somewhere along 
the way, Jofur will make a different turn, explaining 
that he goes to seek Balin out.
Otherwise, if the heroes are insistent on the combat 
then the Sorcerer of Forod will unleash all of his 
might upon them (see page 154). After all, he came 
to kill them in their cell. Jofur will fall, and perhaps 
some of the companions as well. Balin might arrive 
suddenly, having broken free of his own cell and 
liberated some swords from the guards, possibly 
giving the heroes a chance to make a fighting 
retreat. Sooner or later, the heroes must escape 
the way Jofur suggested, perhaps with a Nazgûl 
chasing them.
In the event that the heroes somehow gain the upper 
hand, the Sorcerer will not let himself be destroyed 
here. Eventually he will fade into the shadows, and 
make ready the next stage of his plan.
The Way Out
Jofur’s instructions are accurate and if the Company 
follows them, they can escape the deep cells by an 
underground canal. There might be a leaky old rowboat 
tied to the dock, or a listing raft. Or the Loremaster

--- PAGE 136 ---
PART FOUR THE CITY OF BELLS
135
Shadows In the north
– Part Four –
 The City of Bells
For one reason or another, the companions are standing 
outside the southern wall of Dale just before dawn. Just 
before dawn, one of them sees a faintly glowing red light 
at a certain spot along the wall.
When the heroes approach, they will be greeted by a 
familiar smell — pipeweed alight and being vigorously 
smoked by a certain Wizard of renown. He is sitting on 
the top of the wall and, with one foot, he kicks down a 
rope ladder. ‘I was beginning to wonder when you would 
arrive.’ he says in greeting.
Once the heroes climb up, they can tell him all about their 
experiences. If they have seen the Sorcerer, then Gandalf 
nods gravely. 
‘One of the greatest trials of both Dale and Erebor is 
coming to pass. Smaug would laugh if he could see that 
City and Mountain are at each other’s throat. We can only 
hope that we will be able to upset the Enemy’s plans.’
Gandalf urges the companions to return to Dale — not 
in the open, but in secret. He says that they have many 
friends there, and they should be able to find help. When 
the heroes ready, they must meet him in Erebor. 
‘Now, I have a missing Dwarf and some traitorous 
nobles to attend to. Be careful, my friends!’ 
Quicker than quick, Gandalf is away and the sun is 
beginning to rise.
Straight to Erebor
Once they have spoken to Gandalf, the Company 
might decide to press on to the Lonely Mountain. 
This is unlikely, as the heroes are unprepared and 
probably worse for wear. But a determined or 
reckless group of Player-heroes (or a Company of 
heroes that call Erebor home) might be bent on it. 
In which case, skip directly to Part Five: Inside 
Taking Stock
The heroes are likely at one of the lowest points of their 
careers, and it’s worth taking a moment to tally up the 
situation.
•	
It is likely been more than a day since their last meal. 
Award each hero a level of Exhaustion. They cannot 
recover any hit points nor lose any levels of Exhaustion 
until they have had good food, a safe place to sleep 
and a warm change of clothes.

--- PAGE 137 ---
Erebor Adventures
136
•	
Also, they have been betrayed by the sinister forces at 
work, and it seems as if the king himself has named 
them traitors to the crown. Each hero must make a 
DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or become Miserable until 
they find someone who will support them in their cause.
•	
They will likely need weapons, armour, and other 
equipment. This might be less pressing if they were 
simply exiled, but it is a good idea for heroes with 
distinctive wargear to set that equipment aside in lieu 
of simpler and less noticeable pieces.
•	
Finally, once they have recovered their wits and made 
themselves whole again, they will need to find some 
way into Erebor.
The remainder of this section is devoted to various 
personages and locales the companions might visit to get 
help. Interacting with individuals they previously met gives 
the players and their characters a chance to enjoy everything 
they achieved throughout their earlier adventures, and is 
the pay off of the truth that was denied them in the trial.
Since it is uncertain who the companions will visit and in 
what order, the Loremaster will have to weave a tapestry 
of sneaking through Dale using the following threads. The 
heroes begin at the south wall, close to the Commons.
The Need for Stealth
The Company must move around Dale, but they are 
wanted fugitives and will not want to attract the attention 
of the city guards. Fortunately, the City of Bells is still the 
heart of the North and there are many more people here 
than the Guard could ever hope to track.
Whenever the heroes move to a new district, have them 
make either a DC 10 Dexterity (Stealth) or Intelligence 
(Riddle) check. As long as at least half of the heroes 
succeed, they go unnoticed in the new area (you can still 
have fun narrating close calls for the companions who 
failed their individual checks). If more fail than succeed, 
then they’ve been spotted!
A generous Loremaster might have the first set of guards 
that find the Company be some of Jofur’s men. They’ll 
provide a knowing wink, caution the heroes to be more 
discreet, and then move off, saying ‘These aren’t the 
troublemakers we’re looking for.’ 
But otherwise the guards are alerted and the only 
reasonable course of action will be for the heroes to flee. 
Run this as a series of prolonged Athletics checks just like 
the previous chase in Dale (see page 19). Each hero that 
gets 5 successes has given the guards the slip. Heroes who 
fail to get the needed successes within 8 checks are thrown 
into the deep cells and won’t be seen again until the end of 
the adventure, if at all.
9
Rumours in the City
The companions are known to the Dale-folk, and 
their imprisonment has met with mixed reactions. 
As they sneak about town the heroes might overhear 
some talk:
•	
Horror that they and Balin were traitors.
•	
Shock that King Bard would imprison or 
execute such heroes.
•	
Stark warnings against the wandering life.
•	
Advice to keep one’s head down in such times.
•	
This is proof of the ill-intent of Dwarves and 
indeed all strangers.
•	
War is inevitable now.
•	
People wondering if they should pack up and 
leave the city now.
•	
The good times are over — war was always 
coming. 
The Commons (Katun)
If the heroes head straight into this jumbled area of tents 
and temporary huts they do not need to make checks to 
avoid the Guards at this early hour. Katun and her fellow 
Easterling merchants can be found here. Katun herself 
has just set down to breakfast in a large purple and gold 
tent where she normally conducts trade meetings. She can 
provide the following assistance:
Advice. If the companions speak to her of the Nazgûl, then 
the merchant nods. She has seen and heard enough in the 
alleyways and dark passages of Dale to make her think 
an emissary of the Dark Lord has come. She can tell the 
heroes of how these villains plague the land of her birth,

--- PAGE 138 ---
137
Shadows In the north
setting brother against brother and sister against sister. 
She is too mournful of her own past to give very many 
details, but she warns that Dale is in terrible danger if a 
Wraith is in the city. Katun is wise enough that she may 
suggest to the Company to visit others within the city who 
will be favourable to them.
Comforts. If the heroes have good relations with the 
Easterlings (having shown Katun and her fellows respect 
in The Silver Needle, for example) then she will provide 
new clothing for the heroes from her stocks of fine Eastern 
garments. Such garb allows each companion to make 
any checks to avoid guards with Advantage. While Katun 
sets a fine table  — exceptionally strong tea, flat-bread 
and honey — she often shares her food with newcomers 
to the Commons. There’s enough food on offer for one 
companion to have their fill, or the Company can share 
the food out. The first time they do this, each hero gains 
Inspiration. The second time counts as enough food for 
everyone to have eaten their fill.
Weapons. If Katun owes more to the heroes (for example, 
if they saved her life or livelihood during their adventures) 
then she can provide some weapons — curved swords 
(scimitars), strange-handled daggers and dark-wooded 
short bows to the heroes as well.
Anvil Way (Thrun’s Workshop) 
The Company may wish to visit Thrun’s workshop to 
ascertain the truth of the charges against them. Sadly, 
from the outside nothing contradicts the story told by Lord 
Hakon during the trial: the news about Thrun’s death 
seems correct, and his workshop is closed.
But for now his workshop is unoccupied and unwatched. The 
door has a sturdy Dwarven lock on it, but it is in a secluded side 
street, so a determined companion might sneak in a window 
— a DC 15 Dexterity (Acrobatics) or Strength (Athletics) 
check or pick the lock — a DC 20 Dexterity (Thieves’ Tools) 
check. Dwarves make this check with Advantage.
Once inside, the heroes find the following:
Comforts. Thrun was fond of the many different food-
stalls of Market Square and thus kept no provisions here. 
But he had a small bedroom above his workshop. There is 
a bed there and a chest with a few blankets and a couple 
of spare travelling cloaks (with detachable hoods). The 
Company can rest here.
9

--- PAGE 139 ---
Erebor Adventures
138
Fireworks. Thrun does have a small collection of 
fireworks. Heroes that decide to use them in combat might 
be able to use them in various ways. See Using Fireworks 
in Battle, below.
(a distance of 240 ft, perhaps carrying a note or very 
small item) or gather up a flock of them. When the flock 
is activated, they won’t fly very far but they’re incredibly 
distracting — a companion can activate the flock as an 
action in combat and any foe within 30 ft has Disadvantage 
on attack rolls for the next two rounds.
Traces of Treachery. If the companions search the 
workshop, they find evidence suggesting that Thrun 
struggled against someone, overturning chairs and 
throwing tools all over the place. A DC 20 Intelligence 
(Investigation or Riddle) check suggests another version: 
Thrun was alone, and wrecked his house while suffering 
from great pain! Among the fragments of a smashed 
mechanical contraption lies a last, damning piece of 
evidence: a small cup of silver, one from which Thrun 
used to drink when eating out.
Weapons. Unarmed heroes won’t find proper wargear 
here, but they can use some of Thrun’s larger tools as 
weapons. Chisels and knives can serve as daggers, and 
there are a couple of small hand-axes as well.
Brokenstone
Heroes on the run might remember the training barracks 
that Longo the Bandit-lord used long ago, especially if 
they discovered the secret canal entrance. Unfortunately, 
the tumbled-down building is only in a worse state. It can 
be a hideout, but it doesn’t provide anything other than a 
place to lie low for a time.
Residential Quarter (Domi)
The companions will visit the Residential Quarter if they try 
to find Domi, the scholar from the Blue Mountains (see To 
Dungeons Deep, page 46). The Dwarf has yet to return west, 
and stays in a comfortable house not far from the ‘Nest’, the 
keep of the City Guard. If the Company manages to sneak up 
to his front door, Domi will be shocked to see them alive but 
will listen to  what they have to say. He has followed their 
fortunes closely since they aided him and he believes that 
they have been wronged. Domi can only speak vaguely of 
dark forces moving in Dale, seeking to bring ruin to them all.
Domi can provide the following benefits to the Company:
Comforts. The scholar does not keep much food in his 
lodgings, but can supply some bread, meat, and drink. It 
Using Fireworks in Battle
Inventive (or desperate) heroes might wish to employ 
fireworks against their enemies. It is up to the 
Loremaster’s discretion, but three possible rulings 
might be:
•	
A firework can be launched at a foe within 
60 feet. The hero must make a Dexterity 
attack roll at Disadvantage. The firework 
does 7 (2d6) fire damage, but if the attack 
roll is a natural 1, the damage is applied to 
the hero instead.
•	
A firework can be employed as a distraction. 
Enemies within 30 feet of the firework must 
make a DC 10 Wisdom saving throw or have 
Disadvantage on their attack rolls until the 
end of their next turn.
•	
Fireworks might trigger an adversary’s Fear 
of Fire if they are within range.
Mechanical birds. Many varieties of Thrun’s speciality 
craft can be found, in various states of repair or 
development. The heroes can spend some time working 
on a single bird that could fly from one hero to another 
9

--- PAGE 140 ---
139
Shadows In the north
can make a fine meal for a single person (fulfilling that 
requirement, see Taking Stock on page 135) or it can be 
shared amongst the Company. Doing so offers meagre 
compensation for hunger, but does strengthen the bond 
between the heroes. The first time they share food each 
companion gains Inspiration. The second time they share 
food, the heroes are no longer hungry.
Papers. Domi can write a letter of introduction for the 
Company. If the heroes present it at the gates of Erebor, 
they will be allowed to pass within (see The Front Gate, 
page overleaf).
Weapons. If the companions are really stuck for weapons 
he will gift them his belt. It holds a finely-made short sword 
and a dagger. Should the heroes ask him to procure more, 
the Dwarf will sternly refuse — he will not risk shopping 
for weapons on behalf of the Company.
A Kingly Gift. If the Loremaster deems that the 
companions have convinced Domi that they can effectively 
oppose the evil that is threatening the North, the Dwarf 
sighs, as he has made a weighty decision. Operating 
a hidden mechanism, Domi opens a secret door and 
descends a narrow set of stairs, bidding the heroes to 
wait. When he returns, the Dwarf is carrying a bundle: 
the Coat of Silver Mail! ‘I have been entrusted with it, to 
see if I can learn more of its history. But now my heart tells 
me that it is the time for action and not study. Take it.’  (see 
page 47 for the enchantments laid on the armour.)
The Royal Palace (King Bard)
With the heroes being exiles or maybe even fugitives, 
the Royal Palace is off-limits for them. Should they show 
their face there, they would be immediately arrested. This 
risk notwithstanding, it is possible that very experienced 
companions would be insistent that if they just speak to 
the king in private all will be resolved.
If the heroes have solid bonds of friendship with the king, this 
might indeed come to pass. King Bard is not in his best state of 
mind though — during the course of Erebor Adventures, Bard 
has become distant, as he fears his kingdom is threatened and 
suspects everyone. He will need more than just reassurances, 
the Player-heroes must bring proof (of the scheming of the 
Nazgûl, of their innocence, etc.).
The Loremaster can exploit this turn of events in various 
ways. For example, if Thegn Jofur is alive (if the heroes were 
exiled or fled from the guards and never faced trial) then 
the Sorcerer of Forod will attack while the companions are 
conferring with the king. This aggression will give Jofur 
another chance to heroically sacrifice himself so that the 
king and the heroes can flee to Erebor unhindered.
The Quays (Balin’s House)
Balin’s small house is under constant watch. If the heroes 
dare to approach, then they must make two checks to 
avoid the Guard (one for entering the district and one for 
approaching the house). Any companion with appropriate 
traits (such as Suspicious, Wary or especially Foresighted) 
should receive a warning. If the heroes try to enter the 
house without distracting its watchers, then they’ll be 
arrested again (or perhaps for the first time. If this is the 
case, then proceed to The Trial above). Those who do 
manage to sneak into the house will find that someone 
has destroyed the place, apparently seeking any scrap of 
evidence that they could find.
Elstan’s Cottage
The heroes will have to leave Dale to reach the cottage 
of the old knight. Elstan is glad to see the Company — 
they saved his life when he was left for dead and no evil 
rumours could turn him against them. He cautions them 
against being rash, but then changes his mind and urges 
them to save the town of Dale. Wet-eyed, he will press 
onto them all the wargear he possesses and give them a 
token that should allow them to pass the gates of Erebor. 
He’s not sure if it still works, or will work in others’ hands, 
but it is all he can offer.
The heroes can gain the following advantages:
Comforts. Elstan’s cottage is small, too small for the 
heroes to find much rest here. He can provide them with 
some spare clothes and he has enough food to make a 
good meal for one person. The heroes can also share 
the food out. The first time they do this, each hero gains 
Inspiration. By the second time, each hero has gotten 
enough to eat.
Papers. Elstan’s token will allow the heroes to enter 
Erebor, see The Front Gate on on the next page.
9

--- PAGE 141 ---
PART FIVE INSIDE INFORMATION
Erebor Adventures
140
Weapons. Elstan keeps a set of weapons ready and stores 
various other weapons he has won or has been gifted 
throughout his career throughout his career in a large 
chest in his kitchen, wrapped in oiled cloths.. The precise 
weapons available are left to the Loremaster, but it is likely 
that the Company will be able to rearm here.
Entering Erebor
There are only two ways to enter the Kingdom of the Lonely 
Mountain — through the front door or a secret entrance.
The Front Gate
Dwalin’s Stone Guard warriors stand watch over the 
entrance to Erebor. Any Dwarf can get past them as 
a matter of course, but only a Dwarf of Erebor with a 
Proficiency Bonus of +4 or  higher can bring along their 
companions without problems. Otherwise, foreigners are 
going to be questioned about their identity and business 
in the Lonely Mountain, and possibly be denied access, 
should they be recognised as fugitives or exiles from Dale. 
There are ways around this, of course. Elstan’s token will 
allow them entrance, as will Domi’s letter. In any of these 
cases, the ‘Stone Guard’ takes the heroes to Dwalin. It will 
be his job to arrange their visit to Erebor.
If the heroes are confident that their hard-earned fame 
should pave their way directly to the throne, they might 
demand an audience with King Dáin himself. For a 
Company which has done much in the service of Erebor, 
this might be the easiest route to success, but it’s likely that
Dwalin will need to be convinced of the Company’s need 
to see his king (see The Stubborn Warrior, below).
Comfort and Safety
Once each hero has eaten, received some new (and dry) 
clothes, and had a chance to sleep, they are eligible for a 
long rest. This will also reduce their level of Exhaustion 
by at least one level. Generous Loremasters might allow 
the heroes to benefit from more than one night’s rest if 
the Company has been particularly resourceful during 
this segment of the adventure.
– Part Five –
 Inside Information
This part of the adventure is written considering that the 
heroes have now managed, somehow, to recoup some of 
what has been stolen from them — dignity at least, if not 
their weapons and other belongings. Now, they are ready 
to go to Erebor in order to help Gandalf or warn Dáin at 
least that the Sorcerer of Forod seeks the Arkenstone.
Meanwhile… 
Whether the heroes have seen the king after the trial or 
not, the words and deeds of the Company have not gone 
completely unnoticed by Bard: slowly, the Dragon-slayer 
is moved to action. He resolves to do so for a combination 
of reasons, based on the progress of the campaign so far. 
Maybe he was visited secretly by Balin and Gandalf, who 
came to him to warn him of impending danger, or maybe 
there is more in him of his old self than meets the eye after 
all, and he was able to puzzle out the situation by himself. 
What is important is that King Bard heads to the Lonely 
Mountain with a small retinue, to meet with King Dáin, 
roughly at the same time as the heroes. Is he going to meet 
his old friend in anger, to accuse him of treachery, or is it 
wisdom that dictated this course of action? The Loremaster 
must decide, based on how King Bard has been portrayed 
so far in the campaign.
Sneaking in The Front Door
The heroes might contrive other, more elaborate, 
plans to get into Erebor. Perhaps Katun has a 
shipment of cloth going to Erebor and the companions 
hide among her wares as they are delivered to the 
front gate. Or they might be friends with another 
merchant and make arrangements to be shipped in 
as another basket of grain or barrel full of apples. In 
these cases, once the heroes are in the Mountain, see 
Finding the Way, below.
11

--- PAGE 142 ---
141
Shadows In the north
A Secret Entrance
The companions might know of a hidden way into Erebor. 
Perhaps the fissure that Niping’s allies used to gain access 
to the First Forge has not be adequately blocked up again, 
or perhaps the heroes might know of the Back Door (that 
said, they must either have an accomplice on the inside 
open the door for them, or they must be in possession of 
the Key of Erebor — a rather unlikely possibility!)
Once they have gained entrance to the Mountain, they 
must find Dáin. See Finding the Way, below.
The Stubborn Warrior
If the Stone Guard have either stopped the Company from 
entering Erebor or caught them sneaking about, they will 
escort the companions to Dwalin. The old warrior is quite 
on edge… the speaker for the Company will make their 
Introduction at Disadvantage. If Dwalin is predisposed 
against the heroes (65 and Finding the Way, overleaf) then 
the Introduction check is automatically failed.
Interaction
Word has not yet reached Dwalin’s ears of Gandalf and 
Balin coming to Erebor (the Wizard and the Dwarf might 
have some secret way or the ‘Stone Guard’ found it 
unremarkable enough not to send a messenger to Dwalin), 
but he knows that King Bard is cloistered with King Dáin. 
Here are some various approaches the Company might 
take and the required skill for the Final Audience check:
•	
King Bard has been tricked! To convince Dwalin 
that the soft Men of Dale have been affected by the 
Shadow requires a Persuasion check with Advantage.
•	
King Dáin is in danger! Convincing Dwalin that his 
battle-tested king is under threat is much harder. This 
needs an Intimidation check with Disadvantage.
•	
The Nazgûl seek the Arkenstone! Everyone knows 
that the jewel of Erebor is safe in Thorin’s tomb. To 
convince Dwalin otherwise requires a Persuasion 
check with Disadvantage.
•	
We are expected visitors! Dáin said nothing to 
Dwalin about the Company, but as long as they 
presented themselves at the Front Gate, this is an 
ordinary Traditions check.
Final Audience Check
Dwalin’s final decision is based on the results of the Final 
Audience check.
Failure. Dwalin doesn’t know what to make of the 
Company, but he’s not letting them see Dáin immediately. 
He instructs the Stone Guard to escort the heroes to a 
holding area. See Breaking Free, below.
Success by 0-5. Dwalin believes that the Company might 
have some business with King Dáin. He instructs the Stone 
Guard to escort them to the Great Hall of Thráin. From 
here, the Company can hear echoing voices in a side 
chamber and come to the Tomb themselves (again,  see 
Breaking Free, below).
Success by 6+ Dwalin realises that King Dáin and Erebor 
are in great peril. He personally escorts the heroes to King 
Dáin at the Tomb of Thorin Oakenshield. 
Introduction
The heroes will certainly want to give some account of 
themselves, although they might already be known to 
Dwalin. If the heroes were caught by the Stone Guard they 
automatically fail their Introduction check. Dwalin sees 
them as only prisoners and conspirators in this case. 
9

--- PAGE 143 ---
PART SIX THE CONCERT OF KINGS
Erebor Adventures
142
Finding the Way
Once inside the Mountain, if the heroes want to visit 
the Arkenstone’s resting place, they must find their way 
to the Great Hall of Thráin and then the Tomb of Thorin 
Oakenshield. Otherwise, they will likely be heading for the 
Great Chamber of Thrór, the seat of the King under the 
Mountain.
Heroes sneaking around must make a series of ability 
checks: a DC 15 Intelligence (Riddle) check to find the 
way, and a DC 10 Dexterity (Stealth) group check to 
avoid being noticed by the Dwarves of Erebor — the halls 
of Erebor are still somewhat dark and many Dwarves are 
focused only on their own tasks.
If a Dwarf companion can lead the Company, then the 
Riddle checks are not required. If more than half the 
Company fails any one Stealth check then they have 
been spotted by the Stone Guard, who will escort them to 
Dwalin (see The Stubborn Warrior, above and Dwalin is 
predisposed against the heroes).
•	
It takes four sets of successful checks to get from the 
Front Gate to the Great Chamber of Thrór; six successes 
to get from either the Front Gate or the Great Chamber 
to the Great Hall of Thráin. From a secret entrance 
four successes are required to get to the Great Hall, or 
six successes to get to the Great Chamber.
Companions might be wise enough to listen in to nearby 
Dwarven gossip. A hero who makes a DC 20 Wisdom 
(Perception) check has caught enough familiar words 
to know that the king is having a council at the Tomb of 
Thorin Oakenshield.
Breaking Free 
Heroes who have been caught by the Stone Guard, and 
especially those who are being escorted to a holding area 
to wait upon King Dáin, might hear the raised voices of 
King Bard, Balin, Gandalf, and King Dáin echoing by 
some chance of the stonework. Heroes who act quickly 
can momentarily break free from the guards (or find some 
way to allow themselves to be noticed by the assembled 
Great and Good).
To escape, a companion must succeed on a DC 13 Strength 
(Athletics) check. After a brief run, the hero is caught once 
again, but not before they are seen by Balin: with a wave 
of his hand the old Dwarf dismisses the Stone Guard. 
The heroes have made it in time to see the meeting of two 
powerful lords. But what words will pass between them?
– Part Six –
 The Concert of Kings
King Bard and King Dáin hold their council in the Tomb 
of Thorin Oakenshield. Perhaps it was Gandalf who 
chose this meeting place, or it might have been Dáin in 
an attempt to remind Bard of the past that unites both 
kingdoms.
Dark Business
Thorin’s mausoleum is a wide room, dominated by a large 
stone casket. The outer lid holds a large gemstone, cut in 
imitation of the original Arkenstone but without its inner 
fire. Dáin removed the original as soon as he received 
word from Gandalf of the Nazgûl’s plans.
The chamber is at least fifty feet on a side. The high walls 
are carved with many reliefs, illustrating the ancestral 
history of the house of Durin. Above, high-set sconces 
flicker with an amber light. (See also the Lonely Mountain 
Region Guide, page 16).
The tomb is neither empty nor silent — King Bard, King 
Dáin, Balin, and Gandalf can all be present based on 
how the events of the adventure unfolded, as well as a 
small crowd of courtiers and guards for each of the lords.
King Bard. Whether in wrath, or in the mood to make 
peace, as a monarch and once-staunch ally, King Bard 
9
11

--- PAGE 144 ---
143
Shadows In the north
was allowed entry to the Mountain. He may be extremely 
short-tempered having had to demand an audience and 
been kept waiting, or he may be back to his old noble self, 
intent on righting a wrong.
King Dáin. Dáin holds the Arkenstone, folded into his cloak; 
its radiant light pours from the fabric. The king’s thoughts 
lie heavy with the burden of rulership — the Nazgûl focused 
on the more easily corrupted Men of Dale and he has been 
caught off-guard by the severity of the threat he now faces.
what he can to spur the companions to prove themselves 
as heroes worthy of their fame.
Bitter Words or Kind Deeds
Whether they meet in anger, yelling dire imprecations at 
one another, or if in a more reflective, remorseful mood, 
the Company will come upon this scene at its height. 
Either the two kings are about to apologise to one another 
and renew their bonds of friendship, or declare outright 
war between the kingdoms.
The companions have their chance to resolve the 
differences that have marred the friendship between the 
two kings. Whether that comes from warning them of the 
imminent threat or reminding them of oaths spoken, the 
heroes can succeed in causing Dáin and Bard to put aside 
their quarrel.
If the events that transpired so far haven’t seriously 
compromised the bonds uniting the two kingdoms, then 
the heroes witness what is simply a heartwarming scene 
of two old companions rekindling a friendship that was 
almost lost.
Otherwise, the scene that unfolds is a perfect example of 
how the Shadow corrupts the spirit of the Free Peoples 
from the inside, sowing fear and doubt in the minds of 
the weak and the mighty, turning brother against brother, 
friend against friend.
In both cases, the Company has a chance to clear their 
reputation after the humiliation suffered during the trial, 
offering any new item of proof they might have gathered 
so far.
Just before things are about to conclude, with either Bard 
and Dáin about to come to physical blows, or to embrace 
as old friends, a deeper shadow darkens the chamber…
Enter the Nazgûl
An enemy unlike any other has come to the Mountain. 
From the crypts below the Tomb of Thorin, the Sorcerer 
of Forod enters the chamber. He has come to claim the 
Arkenstone, whether or not he succeeded in destroying the 
friendship between the two kings. The dark figure moves 
forward. Gandalf raises his staff as the companions 
prepare for battle. Any courtiers flee in utter terror.
Balin. The old Dwarf likely makes a reappearance. If the 
players are not great talkers, then Balin can be useful to 
unpack recent events, and set the record straight. He is 
still in a poor state from his earlier capture, and is in no 
shape to steal anyone’s thunder in a battle. Though, as 
ever, his determination is undimmed. 
The Grey Pilgrim. Gandalf may also be present. He is 
worried, for he fears that the power of a Ringwraith might 
prove too much for the rulers of the North. He will do 
9

--- PAGE 145 ---
PART SEVEN FLIGHT INTO THE MOUNTAIN
Erebor Adventures
144
When the heroes start to think that with Gandalf at 
their side the odds aren’t that bad, one, two, perhaps 
three or more Ringwraiths join the Sorcerer from the 
shadows. Clad in hooded black robes and bedecked with 
the accoutrements of warrior-kings of old, they wield 
tarnished sword-blades, gleaming with a sickly light.
As the assembled characters gasp, the Sorcerer of Forod 
sweeps his pale hand across their number, invoking 
his Terror of Desire feature (see page 153). Then, the 
Ringwraiths shriek, their voice like that of ancient terror-
birds of elder days, and rush towards Dáin and the 
Arkenstone, silvery corpse-hands grasping for the jewel. 
Dáin suddenly looks very small indeed.
For the conclusion of the adventure, the Loremaster can 
choose between the following two options: fight (see A 
Desperate Battle, opposite) or flight.
The Final Confrontation
For heroes with a penchant for dramatic conclusions, a battle 
with the Ringwraiths in the Tomb of Thorin Oakenshield 
may be the most suitable ending to the adventure, if not to 
their entire adventuring career! More cautious heroes might 
prefer to focus on preventing the Nazgûl from achieving 
their nefarious objective and also living to see another day.
If they haven’t realised yet that it’s the Arkenstone that 
the Ringwraiths want, Gandalf spells it out for them: the 
voice of the Grey Wizard resounds clearly in their ears, as 
if Gandalf was speaking in their minds.
‘They must not be allowed to claim the Arkenstone!’ he 
says. ‘But we can use their desire against them. Take 
the jewel to the Dawn Terrace!’ The companions receive 
a vision of a chamber high above them, with a great 
mechanism that tracks the motion of the Sun in the sky.
Gandalf raises up his staff and shouts out. ‘Go back to the 
darkness! Flee, servants of Mordor!’ The Ringwraiths only 
laugh, but it is the moment that the Wizard needed. Bard 
and Balin draw their weapons and Dáin opens his cloak, 
revealing the Arkenstone. He nods to the companions and 
then tosses the priceless jewel to them.
‘Take it and run! Keep safe the Heart of the Mountain!’
A Desperate Battle
Some heroes will not give way to the Nazgûl, no 
matter what Gandalf wishes. In this case, Dáin
keeps the Arkenstone himself. The heroes must face 
all the other Ringwraiths first and only then will
Morlach fall to Bard’s sword and Balin’s axe. The 
shade of the Sorcerer will depart for Mordor and it
will be years before Sauron attempts to corrupt the 
Mountain again.
– Part Seven –
 Flight into the Mountain
The following section covers the Company’s desperate 
journey through Erebor as they are pursued by the Nazgûl. 
From the Tomb of Thorin Oakenshield, they will navigate

--- PAGE 146 ---
145
Shadows In the north
through the Mountain, hopefully reaching the Dawn 
Terrace before the Ringwraiths catch them. 
The Pursuit
Each time the heroes enter a new area, they will make a 
check to navigate to their next destination. Even on a failed 
check, the heroes keep moving forward. There is no time 
to double-back, so they simply go a more circuitous route 
to their destination. But the enemy is close on their heels… 
•	
If a Dwarf serves as a Guide, the navigation roll 
is a DC 13 Wisdom (Survival) check. If another 
hero serves as Guide instead, a DC 18 Intelligence 
(Riddle) check is required instead.
Each location gives two possible destinations: one if the 
companions succeed, the other if they fail.
Lead Rating
At all times, the heroes have a Lead value, which starts at 
1. As long as the Lead does not reach 0, the companions 
are ahead of the Nazgûl. When the Lead reaches 0, the 
Ringwraiths have caught up. When that happens, the 
heroes must either redouble their efforts or face the enemy 
in battle.
The Lead rating of the Company can be decreased by 
a bad decision, or a bad roll (see the various location 
descriptions below). On the other hand, other options 
may allow the companions to distance themselves from 
the pursuing wraiths.
•	
In one instance, one or more heroes can stay behind, 
buying time for the others. Each hero that chooses this 
option increases the Lead by 1. However, their hero 
will face the combined might of the Nazgûl and are 
unlikely to survive the fight. (A kind Loremaster might 
subject such a hero to the Black Breath — see page 155 
— instead of slaying them outright.)
•	
The heroes might be able to interact with the 
environment to create distractions or obstacles for 
their pursuers. Each area below will note certain 
opportunities for the heroes to interact with the 
environment. (Note that Dáin will be understanding 
of some property damage, but putting innocents in 
danger is a Misdeed worthy of Shadow points.)
•	
The Company could split up, with some of them going 
one way (the destination for a successful navigation 
check) and others going another way (the destination 
for a failed check). This increases Lead by 1, but is only 
effective once.
•	
One of the prominent Loremaster characters (such 
as Dwalin, Balin, King Bard, or someone else) could 
suddenly interfere, adding to the Company’s Lead by 1.
The Tomb of Thorin Oakenshield
The companions leave the mausoleum of the slain king, but 
which way do they head? This is their first navigation check. 
If they succeed, then they head into the crypts for a 
moment, only to turn aside soon afterwards. An open 
arch leads to a stairwell. The companions hurry down the 
stairs. The stone steps are shallow and turn to the left every 
twenty paces or so. Soon the ceiling is uncomfortably close, 
and the tallest of the Company must crouch down. The 
heroes then reach a long, straight passageway. Following 
it, they emerge into a lower accessway that leads into the 
Heart of the Deeps (see page 48).
If they fail, the Company must simply flee to The Great 
Hall of Thrain (see below) outside the chamber.
The Great Hall of Thrain
This vast chamber used to be the lair of Smaug and there 
is still a feeling of unease in the dark corners of the huge 
room. Now, with the Ringwraiths on their heels, the 
companions might feel like there is a lurking danger in 
every shadow. The Nazgûl shriek and the darkness seems 
to grow. Each companion must make a DC 15 Wisdom 
saving throw. Those that fail are Miserable (see page 183 
of the Player’s Guide)until the end of the chase.
If the Guide succeeds at the navigation check, the 
Company heads out one of the many passageways at 
the far end. They race past many workshops; surprised 
Dwarven artisans might glance up at the fleeing heroes, 
but are just as likely to stay focused on their tasks. 
Eventually, they come to a great circular chamber: the 
Entrance to the Deeps (see page 146).
If the Guide fails, then the companions are hard-pressed. 
They push open a sturdy stone door, perhaps hoping that 
9
9

--- PAGE 147 ---
Erebor Adventures
146
they can wedge it shut afterwards. But now they are in the 
Chamber of Mazarbul (see below).
Entrance to the Deeps
Another vast chamber opens up inside the Mountain, 
a great domed ceiling overhead. The room is circular 
and many, many passageways all meet here. Most of 
them slope down into the darkness, leading to various 
deeps. Several are flat, or slope slightly upwards. Most of 
those come to dead ends or sudden shafts that descend 
back into the lowest parts of Erebor. In the centre of 
the chamber, another passage spirals down into the 
darkness. A Company foolish enough to follow it would 
find themselves soon enough in the Heart of the Deeps 
(see page 148).
A successful check by the Guide allows them to choose the 
one passageway that leads to The Great Causeway (see 
page 149). 
But a failure means they spent too much time investigating 
the many corridors: their Lead is reduced by 1. 
Eventually they choose a promising passageway: there is 
warmth and the smell of iron down the tunnel. It leads to 
The First Forge (see page 147).
Chamber of Mazarbul
The great stone door opens onto a wide rectangular hall. 
The air here is dry, and dusty with age, for many ancient 
books and other manuscripts fill the chamber. This is the 
great library and storehouse of Dwarven knowledge in 
Erebor and the Company has lead the Enemy here!
Munin (see page 20 of the Lonely Mountain Region Guide) 
is here, with a few other Dwarven scholars engaged in the 
processes of preservation, restoration, and reproduction 
of treasured knowledge. As the heroes approach, the 
Dwarves lay down, spill ink, and knock over stools. The 
scholars gasp in alarm. It is plain to the companions that 
simply fleeing the chamber invites the Nazgûl to slaughter 
the Dwarves as they stand.
The heroes must do something.
•	
The heroes could knock over the shelves near the 
chamber entrance, doing much damage to many 
irreplaceable tomes in the process. The players can 
either add 1 to the Company’s Lead or give the 
scholars enough time to flee.
•	
The heroes could instead sacrifice some of their Lead 
(1 point) to make sure all of the scholars get out of 
sight. There are small antechambers that lead to 
reading tables or copying desks where they can hide.
If Skirfira is present (see page 69), she is brave enough to 
stand against the Nazgûl — a hero could toss her a weapon 
(and a shield would not go amiss). She will perish in the 
attempt, but, if she knows it is to protect the Arkenstone, then 
it is a good death. This adds 1 to the Company’s Lead.
9
9

--- PAGE 148 ---
147
Shadows In the north
One of the heroes instead could stay behind. The doorway 
itself is narrow and a single companion could hold it, even 
against a Ringwraith, for a little while.
Fleeing the scene and allowing the scholars to be slain 
is a Misdeed and each hero receives 3 Shadow points 
immediately.
As the heroes leave, the Guide must once again make a 
navigation roll. On a success, they’ve left the records 
room by a corridor that leads to The Great Causeway 
(see page 149), or on a failure they flee into the heart of 
Stángard (see page 149).
The First Forge
The companions rush into another large chamber, its air 
filled with the heat of smelting furnaces and echoes with 
the ringing of hammers, the shouts of Dwarven workers, 
and the workings of various machinery. The heroes might 
have been here before, long ago, to foil Niping’s treachery 
(see page 42). Due to those events, the furnaces are now 
well-patrolled by the Stone Guard and the Company will 
be challenged soon after they enter the chamber.
If their Guide is a Dwarf or a Dwarven hero openly bears the 
Arkenstone, a few breathless words are all that is needed to 
allow the companions to pass unheeded (gaining 1 Lead). 
Otherwise, the Guide must make a DC 15 Charisma 
(Persuasion) check. On a failure, precious time is lost 
explaining things and the Company’s Lead is reduced by 1. 
The heroes can now begin to navigate between the furnaces, 
smelters, and cauldrons of molten metal.
Soon afterwards, the Ringwraiths enter. The brave 
members of the Stone Guard advance upon their foe, but 
the Sorcerer has other plans. He holds up his hand and the 
machinery of The First Forge stops. The room trembles, the 
furnaces flare brightly, the smelters smoke profusely, and 
the cauldrons shiver in their holders. Flame and disaster 
are only moments away — the heroes must act!
•	
The heroes might remember from their previous 
visit that there are alarms in the chamber. It takes a 
successful DC 13 Strength (Athletics) check to engage 
an alarm. If at least three alarms are tripped, the 
Dwarves receive enough warning to clear the chamber.
•	
Great cisterns of water rest above the furnaces. The 
Company may reduce their Lead by 1 in order to 
climb up and release their sluice gates. Water pours 
forth and a great steam arises; it is a ruinous outcome 
for the forges, but it will save the smiths.
•	
A hero could challenge the Sorcerer in order to disrupt 
his magic. The Stone Guard will assist, but the Nazgûl 
are a foe beyond them and the companion will soon 
face the full wrath of the Ringwraiths alone.
If the Company simply flees, then some surviving Dwarves 
are able to open the channels and flood the chamber in 
order to prevent the fire from spreading. But the loss of life

--- PAGE 149 ---
Erebor Adventures
148
is immense. This outcome is worth an immediate gain of 
3 Shadow points.
If the Guide succeeds at the navigation check, they are 
able to take one of the upper exits that leads to The Great 
Causeway (see below). On a failure, the heroes are forced 
to follow the only way they know. They charge down a 
corridor that leads to Niping’s Fissure (see page 150). 
The secret passage is now patrolled by the Stone Guard 
against another incursion, but they will scatter as the heroes 
charge out of the Mountain, the Ringwraiths at their heels.
Heart of the Deeps
The companions follow a passageway to the great central 
shaft that forms the heart of the deeps. A stone span serves 
as a bridge over the yawning darkness, gently sloping up 
to another passageway that opens on the opposite side 
of the gulf. There are no handrails, guide ropes, or other 
safety features. Looking down into the chasm, they can 
only see darkness and the faintest signs of other stone 
bridges that cross the yawning deep. Above, the heroes 
can see the shadows of spans that cross above them. 
From below, the heroes can hear echoing sounds of rock 
grinding against rock. Above, they chance to see a shadow 
moving on a span a hundred feet above them. The Ringwraith 
cries out, but it does not seem to be meant for the Company. 
Instead, from below there are answering echoes and the 
sounds of moving stones. The Stalker of the Deeps is coming!
The Nazgûl does not descend, knowing that the Stalker of 
the Deeps will not discriminate between friend and foe in its 
rage. Instead, it waits above for either the creature to destroy 
the heroes or for a weakened Company to stagger upward.
Quick Thinking and Quicker Action
Heroes who are fast on their feet might choose to 
collapse the tunnel that houses the Stalker. To do 
so, they must destroy at least three support beams. 
It takes 15 points of damage to destroy a beam, but 
an axe that produces a Critical Hit can break the 
wooden support in a single blow.
Heroes who collapse the tunnel in a single round of 
attacks gain 1 Lead. The Nazgûl were not expecting 
such an immediate reaction.
The Stalker in the Deeps
Huge Aberration (Nameless Thing)
STR 
25 (+7)
DEX 
15 (+2)
CON 
27 (+8)
INT 
8 (-1)
WIS 
11 (+0)
CHA 
4 (-3)
Armour Class 15 (Natural Armour)
Hit Points 230 (16d12+128)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Athletics +11, Perception +4, Stealth +6, Survival +4
Senses passive Perception 14
Languages None
Challenge 11 (7,200 XP)
Swallow. After a successful Bite attack, the Stalker 
can use its bonus action to swallow the target if it is 
Medium or smaller. Swallowed creatures are Blinded 
and Restrained and take 13 (2d12) acid damage at the 
start of each of the Stalker’s turns. If the Stalker dies, 
swallowed creatures are no longer Restrained and exit 
by using 10 ft of movement. the corpse
Venom. After a successful Bite attack, the Stalker can 
use its bonus action to inject venom into its target. The 
target must make a DC 17 Constitution saving throw. 
On a failure, the target takes 19 (3d12) poison damage 
and is Poisoned until it takes a short rest. On a success, 
the target takes half damage.
Actions
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 10 ft, one 
target. Hit: 20 (3d8+7) piercing damage.
Reactions
Great Might. The Stalker may use its reaction when it 
takes damage from a melee or ranged weapon attack to 
reduce the amount of damage by its Strength modifier 
(+7), to a minimum of 1 point of damage taken
Stalker in the Deeps
Among the Dwarves who explore the deepest tunnels, 
there are legends of a silent killer who waits in the oldest 
and darkest places of the Mountain. Those who claim to 
have encountered it and survived speak of a huge mouth 
full of poison fangs surrounded by a snake-like head with

--- PAGE 150 ---
149
Shadows In the north
a crown of darkened bone. But it is larger than any serpent 
that slithers in the grass. 
Once the heroes have dealt with the Stalker, they can 
begin to climb their way out of the Deeps. Making 
progress requires one to cross a span, work your way 
upwards along the edge of the shaft, and cross another 
shaft to reach another higher passage. Heroes who spend 
enough time here can gain the top of the shaft and reach 
the Entrance to the Deeps (see page 146). Reduce the 
Company’s Lead by 1 if they choose this route.
A Guide that succeeds at their navigation check is 
able to instead find a shaft that leads to The First Forge 
(see page 147) instead. On a failure the Company must 
instead climb up to the entrance, as above.
The Great Causeway
This long passageway is one of the primary ways the 
Dwarves of Erebor move their great works through the 
Mountain. Thus it is wider and taller than most corridors 
and is joined by many tributaries on its course. At any time, 
day or night, there is traffic on the causeway — workers 
finished with their shift heading home (with perhaps a 
stop or two along the way), others just beginning their 
day, great slaps of raw marble or other stone being moved 
to a workroom, wagons of ore destined for the furnaces, 
carts of finished ironwork going to the Front Gate, and 
many more besides.
When the Nazgûl appear, they will cause panic on the 
road. But oftentimes there is too much traffic for fleeing 
to be practical. The heroes might elect to overturn carts 
or cut the lashes on loads in order to block the Causeway. 
Each member of the Company must make an DC 13 
Strength (Athletics) check. With 5 or more successes, 
the heroes have blocked enough of the Causeway that the 
Ringwraiths must follow using smaller passages that are 
rarely trafficked and thereby gain 1 Lead. Otherwise, the 
Company can spend 1 Lead to make another set of checks. 
Fleeing outright without at least attempting to block the 
Causeway is worth 3 or more Shadow points.
If the Guide’s navigational check is successful, they 
can reach the short passageway to Gloin’s Ladder (see 
overleaf). Otherwise, they take a wrong turn and find one 
of the staircases leading to Stángard (see below).
Stángard
The passageway the companions have been following 
intercepts a broad set of stairs. Racing up them, the heroes 
find themselves amidst the many alleyways that lead to 
private Dwarven abodes. The Company is in Stángard, 
the living quarters of Erebor. As long as the heroes keep to 
the main stairs heading to the town centre, the Dwarves 
living along this spur of the city have little to fear from the 
Nazgûl.
Once the companions have reached the main square, they 
have a few choices to make.
•	
The most responsible thing to do is ring the Bell of 
Stángard. A gift from Dale in more trusting days, its 
purpose is to warn those Dwarves in the city of some 
danger. It is in the very centre of the town and reaching 
it reduces the Company’s Lead by 2.
•	
If not, the heroes can try and find the Iron Guard 
to raise the alarm. The staunch members of Dáin’s 
personal bodyguard can stand against the assault of 
the Ringwraiths but they will fall eventually. A DC 15 
Charisma (Persuasion) check makes the Dwarven 
warriors understand the threat. If successful, the 
heroes add 1 to their Lead.
•	
Simply continuing to flee means that the heroes are 
now leading the Nazgûl through the common areas of 
Stángard, where there are many shops, taverns, and 
9
9

--- PAGE 151 ---
Erebor Adventures
150
storehouses. They are certain to encounter unarmed 
Dwarves of all ages and the Ringwraiths will cause 
them much panic and terror in their pursuit. Each 
companion gains at least 5 points of Shadow if they 
simply run, but the Company gains 1 Lead.
If the Guide succeeds at the navigation check, then 
the Company heads unerringly for the passageway that 
leads to Gloin’s Ladder (see below). Otherwise they must 
stop and ask for directions; the Ladder is the only way to 
the Dawn Terrace. Reduce the Company’s Lead by 1 in 
this case, but the heroes will still reach the Ladder. 
Gloin’s Ladder
This steep staircase is named after the son of Thorin I who, 
before the folk of Erebor first left the Mountain, carved 
it to gain access to the upper reaches of the mountain. It 
winds its way upwards in a tight spiral and its tall steps 
are another proof that it was a young Dwarf who planned 
such an ambitious undertaking.
These days it is rarely used, although it leads to places 
such as the Ice Terrace (see page 18 of the Lonely Mountain 
Region Guide), the access corridors for the Towers of 
Thráin, and to the Dawn Terrace (see below). Once the 
heroes are on the Ladder, there is nothing left to do but 
climb. Each companion must make a DC 15 Strength 
(Athletics) check. Heroes that fail the check gain a level of 
Exhaustion. A hero that succeeds at the check can choose 
to gain a level of Exhaustion. If they do so, increase the 
Company’s Lead by 1.
If the number of failures outweighs the number of 
successes, then the Company’s Lead is reduced by 1. 
If the Nazgûl catch up to the heroes on the Ladder, even a 
single companion can hold them off for a long time on the 
narrow staircase.
After a long climb, the Company reaches the Dawn Terrace 
(see page 151).
Niping’s Fissure
The Company perhaps retraces their steps that they once 
took with Gunvar and his men when the traitorous lord 
attacked Erebor. They once again (or perhaps for the 
first time) must cross the stone bridge over a seemingly 
bottomless chasm. Each hero must make a DC 10 
Wisdom saving throw or become Miserable (see page 
42). They then must once again scramble past razor-edged 
rocks, vents of acrid gas, slippery rocks, and the cramped 
conditions of the long and twisting passage. Each hero 
must make a DC 10 Strength (Athletics) or Dexterity 
(Acrobatics) check or take 10 (3d6) bludgeoning damage.
Finally, the companions come to the actual fissure. It is 
narrow and getting out of it is harder than clambering 
down. Each hero must make another Athletics or 
Acrobatics check as above. On a failure, the companion 
slips and has a hard landing, taking 7 (2d6) bludgeoning 
damage.
Once outside, the Company finds itself in the narrow 
valley of Niping’s fissure. It is gloomy here, the Sun is yet 
low on the horizon, and ragged clouds gather in the East. 
The Nazgûl come, and they will not be easily daunted, 
even by the Arkenstone.
The Battle of the Fissure
The Ringwraiths advance, and there is nowhere left for 
the heroes to flee. They have not reached their intended 
location, but at least they are outside and the Sun is 
rising, however slowly. The battle will be divided into 
three phases, dependant on the amount of light available.
•	
For the first three rounds, no light from the rising Sun 
reaches the shaded valley. If a companion wields the 
Arkenstone, any Nazgûl attacks against that hero are 
at Disadvantage.
•	
For the next three rounds, only the slightest glimmer 
reaches the valley, but it is enough to set the Heart of the 
Mountain aflame. If a member of the Company wields 
the stone, then every companion within 10 ft of that 
hero also gains the benefit of the Arkenstone (as above).
•	
During the last three rounds, day has come again. 
If a hero wields the Arkenstone it gleams with a 
brilliance that few can withstand. Each Nazgûl is at 
Disadvantage for all attack rolls, saving throws, and 
ability checks. If the Nazgûl have not stolen the gem 
by the end of these three rounds, they forgo their black 
robes and flee, thin shadows in the light of the Sun.
9
11

--- PAGE 152 ---
EPILOGUE
151
Shadows In the north
Wielding the Arkenstone
The hero holding the Heart of the Mountain can reveal 
it as an action. The impact of the stone depends on the 
amount of sunlight available (see the effects listed above).
•	
It will take six rounds for dawn to come. For each point 
of Lead remaining, that round passes uneventfully. 
Once the Lead reaches 0, the Nazgûl emerge into the 
chamber. A cold wind extinguishes all other sources 
of light. This darkness is magical and even Elves and 
Dwarves are at Disadvantage. A hero with a torch or 
a candle can use an action to relight it, but any light 
source only generates dim light in a 10 ft radius.
Dawn Breaks
On the seventh round, a thin ray of the Sun’s light comes 
through the slit in the wall, piercing the darkness. If the 
hero bearing the Arkenstone places it within the beam, the 
gem flares and the entire chamber is illuminated by light 
too brilliant for mortal eyes! No one can take an action 
other than to shield their eyes from the glowing stone. 
After a moment, the flare subsides to the light of a brightly 
burning bonfire. There is no sign of the Nazgûl. Gandalf 
will later explain that they have not been destroyed, but 
the magic binding their dread wills to unseen sinews was 
disrupted and it will be a long time before they are seen 
again in the North. 
– Epilogue –
The Sorcerer’s plot to steal the Arkenstone and plunge 
Mountain and City into war with each other has failed. 
Both King Bard and King Dáin thank the heroes for 
preventing disaster — there are still dark times ahead 
(especially for Bard) but today is a day of victory!
The Arkenstone is restored to its rightful place in the Tomb 
of Thorin Oakenshield. The two kings swear new oaths of 
friendship and loyalty over his grave, so that the Shadow 
will have no hope of setting them against each other again. 
If members of the Company or their allies fell in battle 
against the Nazgûl, then their bodies are recovered. 
Dwarves will be laid to rest in a place of honour in the 
crypts of the Mountain, others might be laid to rest in 
Dale’s cemetery. 
The Company are fêted as heroes and they are given the 
freedom of both Erebor and Dale, meaning they gain the 
The Arkenstone is lost!
If the Company does battle with the Nazgûl inside 
Erebor or at Niping’s Fissure, there’s a chance that 
the Sorcerer’s plan will come to fruition and the 
Ringwraiths will depart Erebor in possession of 
the Arkenstone. If that happens, there may be some 
ways to keep your game within the lore that we know 
from the Tale of Years.
Foremost, the Nazgûl are loathe to cross running 
water. This means that they are likely headed for 
the bridge of Celduin (see Wilderland Adventures, 
page 116 and on) and could be intercepted there. 
This gives the surviving heroes another chance at 
fighting the Nazgûl and a plausible way to recover 
the Arkenstone.
A less satisfactory resolution could be that Gandalf 
reveals that the companions have been carrying a 
decoy the entire time, its glow provided by a little 
magic of his own making. While frustrating, it does 
keep the true Arkenstone in Thorin’s tomb for all time.
The Dawn Terrace 
The companions exit the steep staircase and race 
eastwards along a newly carved passageway. It opens 
into a semicircular room, the ceiling and wall are a 
singular dome that disappears into a series of gears and 
stone pinions that traces the border of the room. The 
wall has one small slit in it. This is the Dawn Terrace, a 
newly constructed chamber that will allow the Dwarves 
to capture the first rays of any given morning for use in 
their wondrous devices. But today, Gandalf’s plan is to 
use the first light of the Sun with the natural power of the 
Arkenstone.
The Wizard is not here yet, and surely the Nazgûl are not 
far behind. 
11

--- PAGE 153 ---
Erebor Adventures
152
standard of living of a Dwarf of Erebor, their basic needs 
now being met without question in high style for the rest 
of their lives. Heroes that petition for a title from King Bard 
may find themselves well-rewarded. The king knows that 
he needs new advisors that will not succumb to the Enemy. 
They may also choose a holding in either city, if they wish.
The Smiths of Erebor labour long hours over the coming 
year, and King Bard opens the armoury of Girion. As a 
just reward, the companions are gifted unique weapons 
suited to their individual abilities. (The Loremaster may 
fashion such weapons using the rules for Legendary 
Weapons and Armour found on page 132 of the 
Loremaster’s Guide).
A statue of Thegn Jofur is raised in The Commons. A statue 
of Balin is raised in Erebor. These require special stone 
from the Iron Hills, and precious metals found only in the 
Mountains of Mirkwood. If they are not ready to retire, 
the Companions might choose to lead an expedition to 
acquire the materials.
The Nazgûl are sorely punished by their master, stripped 
of their robes and forced to wander formless in agony for 
long decades before being allowed back into His favour. 
Eventually Sauron sends his Messenger back to Erebor to 
attempt to treat with Dáin, who recognises an old enemy 
and rebuffs them. 
If, by some chance, the Arkenstone has been permanently 
lost, then the mood of the two kings is much more dour. 
They still swear oaths of loyalty to each other, but it has 
become evident to both of them that few of their subjects 
are able to stand against the Shadow.

--- PAGE 154 ---
APPENDIX: 
THE NAZGÛL OF THE NORTH
DARK UNDEAD OR UNCLAD AND INVISIBLE
DREADFUL SPELLS
153
Appendix: The Nazgûl of the North
Dreadful Spells
The Sorcerer knows several powerful magics that he can 
use against the heroes.
Terror of Desire
All heroes within 90 ft of the Ringwraith must make a 
Wisdom saving throw, with the DC equal to 10 plus 
the hero’s total Shadow score. On a failure, the hero 
is caught up in a fantasy derived from their Shadow 
Weakness and is Stunned. At the beginning of the 
hero’s turn, they can repeat the saving throw, ending 
the effect on a success. If the hero rolls a natural 1, the 
companion suffers a Bout of Madness and the Terror of 
Desire effect ends.
Shadow of Fear
The Ringwraiths can terrorise mortals into doing their 
dark bidding. The Sorcerer may use its action to force 
the target to make a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw. 
On a failure, the Nazgûl can compel the hero to carry 
out some service (such as reporting information to the 
Ringwraith) or to perform a secret task. The compulsion 
lasts a number of weeks equal to the hero’s current 
Shadow score.
A spellbound hero is loathe to perform the compelled 
action and is often nervous, moody, or morose. Other 
members of the Company who note the change in 
their Companion can make a DC 15 Charisma 
(Intimidation) or Wisdom (Insight) check to provoke 
the hero (those with Dark Knowledge make this check 
with Advantage). A successful check allows the target to 
make another saving throw against the spell, ending its 
effects on a success. 
 Appendix A: 
The Nazgûl of the North
Nine (rings) he gave to Mortal Men, proud and great, and 
so ensnared them. Long ago they fell under the dominion 
of the One, and they became ringwraiths, shadows under 
his great Shadow, his most terrible servants.
In Erebor Adventures, the evil that befalls both Dale and 
Erebor can be traced to the Sorcerer of Forod, one of the 
nine Ringwraiths — the chief and most powerful servants 
of Sauron, the Great Enemy.
The years after the capture of Dol Guldur and the 
restoration of Barad-dûr are ones of the Dark Lord 
reclaiming his ancient power. As their fate is inextricably 
linked to that of their Master, the Nazgûl of Dol Guldur are 
yet but a dark reflection of what the Nine will become in 
later on, when the Lord of the Rings will unleash them and 
their Black Captain to hunt for the One Ring.
In gaming terms, this lesser stature is reflected by the 
Sorcerer of Forod’s Challenge rating: a relatively low 
value. Yet, this value is higher than that of the Nazgûl 
of Dol Guldur as presented in the Mirkwood Campaign. 
This is due to the solitary nature and importance of the 
Sorcerer’s mission in the eye of the Dark Lord.
Dark Undead or Unclad and Invisible
The Nazgûl wear robes or suits of armour to assume a 
shape when they must have dealings with the living. But 
even when given a physical shape they cannot be easily 
destroyed, for the power of their Master is in them as long 
as the Ruling Ring endures. Use the Nazgûl’s entry as Dark 
Undead when it confronts the heroes in physical form.
However, the Ringwraiths may choose to appear as 
incorporeal ghosts. In this form few weapons in Middle-
earth can assault them, and even the Elves perceive them 
only as dark shadows upon the world. Use the Nazgûl’s 
stats for Unclad and Invisible when they are spirits of 
creeping horror and dread. While Unclad and Invisible, a 
Ringwraith may make full use of his special features listed 
for that form and never loses his invisibility. Thus, heroes 
may be plagued by a foe that can strike at range and that 
they can barely perceive.
The Black Shadow
A victim of the Black Shadow remains Unconscious 
for a number of days equal to their Shadow score. 
For each day spent in this state, the hero must make 
a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw (this is reduced to 
DC 10 if tended to by someone familiar with The 
Weapons of the Enemy. See the Player’s Guide, 
page 68). Each failed saving throw adds 1 Shadow 
point to the hero, but does not extend the time spent 
Unconscious.

--- PAGE 155 ---
Erebor Adventures
154
The Morgul-knife
“Alas! the wounds of this weapon are beyond my skill to 
heal.”
The Sorcerer of Forod carries a Morgul-knife, the mark of 
the trust of his lord and of the importance of his task.
Enemies of the Nazgûl who die when pierced by a Morgul-
knife do not rest, but become Fell Wraiths under the 
dominion of the Dark Lord. If a companion is struck by a 
Morgul-knife, the hero must make a Constitution saving 
throw. The DC is equal to 10 plus the damage done to the 
companion by the knife. If the strike reduces the hero to 
0 hit points, they automatically fail the saving throw. If 
the hero fails the saving throw, the blade of the knife has 
broken, and a splinter of the evil thing is within the hero.
Such an injury must be treated by a master of healing 
like Elrond Halfelven or a Scholar familiar with The 
Weapons of the Enemy as soon as possible. Treatment 
requires the healer tend to the victim during a long 
rest and succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom (Medicine) 
check. If this does not happen, the victim becomes sick 
and does not recover, and will soon be overcome: the 
wounded hero resists for a number of days equal to 12 
plus the victim’s Wisdom modifier, then, if they are 
still without cure, they die in pain, only to rise later as 
a Fell Wraith.
But a Morgul-wound will never truly heal. A hero who 
sustained such a grim injury feels a great chill spreading 
from the spot where they were pierced whenever they 
traverse an area considered Blighted, or find themselves 
in sight of a Ringwraith. The companion must pass a DC 
20 Wisdom saving throw or gain a level of Exhaustion.
The Sorcerer of Forod as Dark Undead
Medium Undead
STR 
14 (+2)
DEX 
21 (+5)
CON 
21 (+5)
INT 
16 (+3)
WIS 
12 (+1)
CHA 
11 (+0)
Armour Class 20 (Deadly Elusiveness)
Hit Points  135 (18d8+54)
Speed 30 ft
Damage Resistances non-magical bludgeoning, 
piercing and slashing; cold, psychic 
Condition Immunities Blinded, Deafened, Frightened, 
Paralysed, Petrified, Stunned
Skills Lore +8, Shadow-lore +8, Perception +6
Senses Truesight 30 ft (otherwise blind), passive 
Perception 16
Languages Black Speech, Orkish, Westron
Challenge 13 (10,000 XP)
Deadly Elusiveness. The Sorcerer’s Armour Class is equal 
to 10 plus twice his Dexterity modifier.
Deadly Voice. The Ringwraiths scream at their enemies 
with long-drawn wails that rise to a deafeningly high 
piercing note. The Sorcerer can use his bonus action to 
make a Frightened creature become Stunned until the end 
of the Sorcerer’s next turn.
Gathering Shadows. If the Sorcerer is accompanied by 
other Nazgûl, then the DC for saving throws against his 
abilities are raised by 1 for each other Nazgûl within 90 ft.
Actions
Multiattack. The Sorcerer makes one attack with his 
Black Sword and one with his Claw or Morgul-knife.
Black Sword of Mordor. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to 
hit, reach 5 ft, one target. Hit: 8 (1d8+4) slashing damage 
and 10 (2d6+3) necrotic damage.
Morgul-knife. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 
5 ft, one target. Hit: 6 (1d4+4) piercing damage and see 
Morgul-knives, above.
Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 7 (1d6+4) slashing damage.
Black Breath. (see entry for The Sorcerer, Unclad and 
Invisible)
Shadow of Fear. (see page 153)
Terror of Desire. (see page 153)
Thing of Terror. (see entry for The Sorcerer, Unclad and 
Invisible)
Reaction
Dwimmerlaik. If a hero strikes the Sorcerer with a critical 
hit, he may use his reaction to invoke this ability. The hero 
must make a DC 17 Strength saving throw. On a failure, 
the hero’s weapon shatters, and the hero receives the 
damage instead of the Ringwraith. Legendary weapons 
might not be destroyed, but are lost as a cold pain shoots 
through the hero’s body and they drop the weapon.
Legendary Actions
The Sorcerer has 2 Legendary actions, given below. At the 
start of his turn he regains any spent Legendary actions.
Sword Strike. The Sorcerer attacks with his Black Sword 
of Mordor.
Bringer of Terror. The Sorcerer uses his Thing of Terror 
feature

--- PAGE 156 ---
THE SORCERER OF FOROD
155
Appendix: The Nazgûl of the North
Moreover, the pain will return every year on the day the 
character received the Morgul-wound, and the companion 
will have to pass a DC 20 Wisdom saving throw, or gain 
5 (1d6 + 2) Shadow points.
There is only one positive side for those who survive 
a Morgul-wound: their senses become sharper, and 
they are more aware of things that cannot be seen. 
For example, the companion can see more in the dark 
than most, including Dwarves and Elves. In game 
terms, the hero gains Advantage on all Perception 
checks.
The Sorcerer of Forod
In life, Morlach was a tall and noble Northman, whose 
ambition pushed him too far. His mortal legacy is 
forgotten, as everything concerning him has been lost 
from the Tale of Years. Only a few among the Elves of 
Mirkwood remember how he was caught by his folk 
committing forbidden acts of necromancy, and how 
he was blinded with hot irons and sent away into the 
Forest of Mirkwood, to die as an outcast. Found by 
servants of Sauron sent to search for him, Morlach 
became another lethal weapon in the hand of his 
saviour, the Dark Lord.
Now Sauron has unleashed Morlach once again. 
The Sorcerer moves subtly, setting one lord against 
another, to destroy hope and friendship and leave 
only bitterness and grief in his wake. He usually 
appears in the shadows, Unclad and Invisible, 
whispering words of treachery to his thralls. But 
when he takes shape as a Dark Undead he is as 
deadly as he is terrifying.
The Sorcerer of Forod, Unclad and Invisible
Medium Undead
STR 
14 (+2)
DEX 
18 (+4)
CON 
17 (+3)
INT 
16 (+3)
WIS 
12 (+1)
CHA 
11 (+0)
Armour Class  18 (Deadly Elusiveness)
Hit Points  135 (18d8+54)
Speed 30 ft
Damage Immunities non-magical bludgeoning, 
piercing and slashing; cold, psychic 
Condition Immunities Blinded, Deafened, Frightened, 
Paralysed, Petrified, Stunned
Skills Lore +8, Shadow-lore +8, Perception +6
Senses Truesight 30 ft (otherwise blind), passive 
Perception 16
Languages Black Speech, Orkish, Westron
Challenge 13 (10,000 XP)
Deadly Elusiveness. The Sorcerer’s Armour Class is 
equal to 10 plus twice his Dexterity modifier.
Gathering Shadows. If the Sorcerer is accompanied by 
other Nazgûl, then the DC for saving throws against his 
abilities are raised by 1 for each other Nazgûl within 90 ft.
Thing of Shadow. The Sorcerer is Invisible.
Actions
Black Breath. The Sorcerer can use its action to target 
a creature within 10 feet. That creature must make a DC 
17 Constitution saving throw. On a failure, the creature 
gains 1 Shadow point and becomes Unconscious. They 
may be revived as an action, but are Miserable until 
they take a long rest. On a success, the creature gains 1 
Shadow point but remains awake. If a Ringwraith targets 
an Unconscious creature then they are subject to The 
Black Shadow (see page 153).
Shadow of Fear. The Sorcerer can direct its terrible will 
upon any Frightened mortal (Dwarf, Hobbit, or Man) 
such that the victim becomes an agent for the Enemy. On 
a failure, see Shadow of Fear (page 153). 
Thing of Terror. The Sorcerer can use his action to cause 
any number of targets within 60 feet of him to make a DC 
17 Wisdom saving throw. Those that fail are Frightened 
until the end of the Ringwraith’s next turn.
Legendary Actions
The Sorcerer has 2 Legendary actions, given below. At the 
start of his turn he regains any spent Legendary actions.
Breath of Mordor. The Sorcerer attacks with his Black 
Breath.
Bringer of Terror. The Sorcerer uses his Thing of Terror 
feature.

--- PAGE 157 ---
MORE NAZGÛL
Erebor Adventures
156
More Nazgûl
A climatic scene featured in the adventure Shadows in the 
North (page 144) can see the Sorcerer of Mirkwood make 
an appearance, accompanied by a number of Ringwraiths. 
In that occasion, it is left to the Loremaster to judge how 
many Nazgûl will enter the fray, based on the composition 
and heroic stature of the Company of heroes, but also on 
the players’ attitudes towards combat. It is not the aim of 
the scene to wipe out the entire fellowship, but to confront 
them with a challenge that will seriously make them 
consider escaping.
The Loremaster is free to use the stats for the Nazgûl of Dol 
Guldur contained in the Mirkwood Campaign supplement, 
or the generic ones described below (The Lord of the Nazgûl 
should not make an appearance under any circumstance, to 
avoid taking the spotlight away from the Sorcerer of Forod).
Ringwraith as Dark Undead
Medium Undead
STR 
17 (+3)
DEX 
20 (+5)
CON 
15 (+2)
INT 
10 (+0)
WIS 
11 (+0)
CHA 
10 (+0)
Armour Class 15
Hit Points 91 (14d8+28)
Speed 30 ft
Damage Resistances non-magical bludgeoning, piercing 
and slashing; cold, psychic 
Condition Immunities Blinded, Deafened, Frightened, 
Paralysed, Petrified, Stunned
Skills Investigation +4, Perception +4
Senses Truesight 30 ft (otherwise blind), passive 
Perception 14
Languages Black Speech, Orkish, Westron
Challenge 8 (3,900 XP)
Deadly Voice. The Ringwraiths scream at their enemies 
with long-drawn wails that rise to a deafeningly high 
piercing note. The Ringwraith can use his bonus action to 
make a Frightened creature become Stunned until the end 
of the Ringwraith’s next turn.
Fear of Fire. If a torch or other flame comes within 10 feet 
of him, the Ringwraith suffers Disadvantage on attack rolls.
Gathering Shadows. If the Ringwraith is accompanied 
by other Nazgûl, then the DC for saving throws against his 
abilities are raised by 1 for each Nazgûl within 90 ft.
Actions
Multiattack. The Ringwraith makes one attack with his 
broadsword and one with his claw.
Broadsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 9 (1d8+5) slashing damage.
Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 8 (1d6+5) slashing damage.
Black Breath. The Ringwraith can use its action to target 
a creature within 10 feet. That creature must make a DC 
15 Constitution saving throw. On a failure, the creature 
gains 1 Shadow point and becomes Unconscious. They 
may be revived as an action, but are Miserable until 
they take a long rest. On a success, the creature gains 1 
Shadow point but remains awake. If a Ringwraith targets 
an Unconscious creature then they are subject to The Black 
Shadow (see page 153).
Shadow of Fear. The Ringwraith can direct its terrible 
will upon any Frightened mortal (Dwarf, Hobbit, or Man) 
such that the victim becomes an agent for the Enemy. The 
Ringwraith may use its action to force the target to make a 
DC 15 Wisdom saving throw. On a failure, see Shadow of 
Fear (page 153).
Thing of Terror (1/day). The Ringwraith can use his 
action to cause any number of targets within 60 feet of him 
to make a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw. Those that fail 
are Frightened until the end of the Ringwraith’s next turn.
Reaction
Dwimmerlaik. If a hero strikes the Ringwraith with a 
critical hit, he may use his reaction to invoke this ability. 
The hero must make a DC 15 Strength saving throw. On 
a failure, the hero’s weapon shatters, and the hero receives 
the damage instead of the Ringwraith. Legendary weapons 
might not be destroyed, but are lost as a cold pain shoots 
through the hero’s body and they drop the weapon.

--- PAGE 158 ---
157
Appendix: The Nazgûl of the North
Ringwraith, Unclad and Invisible
Medium Undead
STR 
17 (+3)
DEX 
20 (+5)
CON 
15 (+2)
INT 
12 (+1)
WIS 
13 (+1)
CHA 
10 (+0)
Armour Class 15
Hit Points 91 (14d8+28)
Speed 30 ft
Damage Resistances non-magical bludgeoning, piercing 
and slashing; cold, psychic 
Condition Immunities Blinded, Deafened, Frightened, 
Paralysed, Petrified, Stunned
Skills Investigation +4, Perception +4
Senses Truesight 30 ft (otherwise blind), passive 
Perception 14
Languages Black Speech, Orkish, Westron
Challenge 8 (3,900 XP)
Gathering Shadows. If the Ringwraith is accompanied 
by other Nazgûl, then the DC for saving throws against his 
abilities are raised by 1 for each Nazgûl within 90 ft.
Thing of Shadow. The Ringwraith is Invisible.
Actions
Black Breath. The Ringwraith can use its action to target 
a creature within 10 feet. That creature must make a DC 
15 Constitution saving throw. On a failure, the creature 
gains 1 Shadow point and becomes Unconscious. They 
may be revived as an action, but are Miserable until 
they take a long rest. On a success, the creature gains 1 
Shadow point but remains awake. If a Ringwraith targets 
an Unconscious creature then they are subject to The Black 
Shadow (see page 153).
Shadow of Fear. The Ringwraith can direct its terrible 
will upon any Frightened mortal (Dwarf, Hobbit, or Man) 
such that the victim becomes an agent for the Enemy. 
The Ringwraith may use its action to force the target to 
make a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw. On a failure, see 
Shadow of Fear (page 153).
Thing of Terror (1/day). The Ringwraith can use his 
action to cause any number of targets within 60 feet of 
him to make a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw. Those that 
fail are Frightened until the end of the Ringwraith’s next 
turn.

--- PAGE 159 ---
Erebor Adventures
158
 Appendix B:
Loremaster Characters
The following characters feature in the various stories 
interwoven in Erebor Adventures. Each entry provides a 
listing of the most prominent entries for the individual. A 
bold entry indicates especially useful information, such as 
a statblock.
Aefre, wife of Eutaric	
102, 105
Balin the Statesman,son of Fundin	
7, 29, 43, 119, 130, 139, 142
King Bard, lord of Dale	
130, 139, 142
Bryni, Lord of Strandburg	
37
Clifford Sedger, Man of Bree	
52
Clovis the Hobbit	
11
King Dáin, King under the Mountain	
67, 142
Domi, scholar from the Blue Mountains	
46, 57, 138
Dwalin the Warrior, brother of Balin	
49, 62, 141,
Lord Elstan, aged Captain of Dale	
70, 83, 130, 132, 139
Eutaric of Woodland Hall	
101, 105, 106
Firbul the Goblin, agent of Morlach	
53, 55, 60
Gandalf the Grey, wizard of some renown	
127, 135, 142
Ginar, Dwarf farmer	
73
Greystroke, Hunter of Monsters	
69, 74, 89
Gunvar, Lord of Ashbrook	
37, 39, 130
Gwion, dealer of musical instruments	
36
Gylfi, son of Gisli, keeper of the Glittering Gate	
111
Lord Hakon, courtier to King Bard	
6, 21, 63, 130
Haldis, a fisherwoman	
101, 112
Halward, Reeve of the Quays	
35
Holti, antique dealer	
101, 106
Thegn Jofur, courtier to King Bard	
7, 48, 62, 130, 132
Kasper the Bandit, Longo’s lieutenant	
20, 53
Katun the Merchant	
12, 130, 136
Kelda the Embroiderer	
11,
The Brothers Khuldrim	
69, 78-9
Linnon, Wayward Elf	
114
Longo the Bandit-lord	
10, 25,
Magan, apprentice of Orsmid, niece of Kelda	
101, 102-4, 118
Morlach, the Sorcerer of Forod	
6, 133, 154-5
Nefgeir, innkeeper of The Pike and Eel	
100, 105
Niping the Smith	
27
Odvarr, head of the Guild of Artisans
of Lake-town	
97, 107-9, 116,118, 130
Orsmid, master smith and sculptor	
97, 100, 130
Thegn Osgar	
37
Raenar the Plunderer, Dragon of the North	
66, 92, 94
Sígar the Dwarf, follower of Niping	
45
Skarf Skulson	
75, 79,130
Skirfira Silvertongue, Dwarven scholar	
69, 74, 89
Swain the Enforcer, Longo’s lieutenant	
20, 53
Thrun the Toymaker, friend of Balin	
31, 131, 137
Thulim, nephew of Dulin	
11
Ukgash Burnt-Orc, traitorous Orc-leader	
83, 84
Vig the Spy, Longo’s lieutenant	
19, 53
Witherfinger, mysterious wanderer of the Waste	
82
Wruenele, young Fire-drake	
66, 92, 94

--- PAGE 160 ---
159
Appendix: The Nazgûl of the North
 Appendix C:
Places & Things
The following locations and items are important to the 
events of Erebor Adventures. Some locations are known 
by more than one name, or might have an item or location 
of interest contained within a larger category.
Great Chamber of Thrór	
45
Great Hall of Thráin	
45, 145
Guild House for the Guild of Artisans	
107
Haunted Lake, The	
85
Heart of the Deeps	
148
Katun’s Tent	
36
Kelda’s House	
17
King Bard’s Statue	
98
Lair of the Mud-men	
11
Longo’s Lair	
22
Lord Elstan’s Grave	
83
Mark of the Wandering Wizard, The	
120
Mausoleum, The (The Tomb of the Prince)	
56
Morgul-knife, The	
154
Mornamir, The	
98, 117
Nameless, The Elven Spear	
90
Abyss, The	
42
Aegis of Dale, The	
80
Anvil Way	
137
Ashbrook	
37-42
Balin’s Hideout	
32
Balin’s House	
119
Barracks, The (Longo’s Lair)	
22
Black Scabbard, The	
14, 26
Brech	 	
75
Brokenstone	
22, 138
Chamber of Mazarbul	
146
Coat of Silver Mail, The	
47
Cold Bog, The	
16
Commons, The (Katun’s Tent)	
136
Dawn Terrace, The	
151
Domi’s House	
138
Elstan’s Cottage	
139
Entrance to the Deeps	
146
Fireworks	
138
First Forge, The	
42, 147
Forge Alarms	
44
Ginar’s House	
73
Glittering Gate, The	
111
Gloin’s Ladder	
150
Gorge, The	
86
Great Causeway, The	
149
Netherwood, The	
123
Niping’s Fissure	
42, 150
Orsmid’s Workshop	
102
Pits, The	
132	
Quays, The (Balin’s House)	
35, 139
Residential Quarter (Domi)	
138
Royal Palace, The	
48
Silver Needle, The	
18
Stángard	
149
Strandburg	
37
The Missing Scale	
37
The Pike and Eel	
99
Thrun’s Marvellous Thrush	
35. 41
Thrun’s Workshop	
33, 137
Tomb of the Prince, The	
53
Tomb of Thorin Oakenshield	
142
Toymarket, The	
30
Traders Gate	
9
Vale of Bones, The	
121
Watchtower of Zirakinbar	
89

--- PAGE 161 ---
OPEN GAME LICENSE Version 1.0a 
The following text is the property of Wizards of the Coast, Inc. and is Copyright 2000 Wizards of the Coast, Inc 
(“Wizards”). All Rights Reserved. 1. Definitions: (a)”Contributors” means the copyright and/or trademark owners who 
have contributed Open Game Content; (b)”Derivative Material” means copyrighted material including derivative works 
and translations (including into other computer languages), potation, modification, correction, addition, extension, 
upgrade, improvement, compilation, abridgment or other form in which an existing work may be recast, transformed or 
adapted; (c) “Distribute” means to reproduce, license, rent, lease, sell, broadcast, publicly display, transmit or otherwise 
distribute; (d)”Open Game Content” means the game mechanic and includes the methods, procedures, processes and 
routines to the extent such content does not embody the Product Identity and is an enhancement over the prior art 
and any additional content clearly identified as Open Game Content by the Contributor, and means any work covered 
by this License, including translations and derivative works under copyright law, but specifically excludes Product 
Identity. (e) “Product Identity” means product and product line names, logos and identifying marks including trade 
dress; artifacts; creatures characters; stories, storylines, plots, thematic elements, dialogue, incidents, language, 
artwork, symbols, designs, depictions, likenesses, formats, poses, concepts, themes and graphic, photographic and 
other visual or audio representations; names and descriptions of characters, spells, enchantments, personalities, 
teams, personas, likenesses and special abilities; places, locations, environments, creatures, equipment, magical or 
supernatural abilities or effects, logos, symbols, or graphic designs; and any other trademark or registered trademark 
clearly identified as Product identity by the owner of the Product Identity, and which specifically excludes the Open 
Game Content; (f) “Trademark” means the logos, names, mark, sign, motto, designs that are  used by a Contributor 
to identify itself or its products or the associated products contributed to the Open Game License by the Contributor 
(g) “Use”, “Used” or “Using” means to use, Distribute, copy, edit, format, modify, translate and otherwise create 
Derivative Material of Open Game Content. (h) “You” or “Your” means the licensee in terms of this agreement. 
2. The License: This License applies to any Open Game Content that contains a notice indicating that the Open Game 
Content may only be Used under and in terms of this License. You must affix such a notice to any Open Game Content 
that you Use. No terms may be added to or subtracted from this License except as described by the License itself. No 
other terms or conditions may be applied to any Open Game Content distributed using this License. 
3.Offer and Acceptance: By Using the Open Game Content You indicate Your acceptance of the terms of this License. 
4. Grant and Consideration: In consideration for agreeing to use this License, the Contributors grant You a perpetual, 
worldwide, royalty free, non exclusive license with the exact terms of this License to Use, the Open Game Content. 
5.Representation of Authority to Contribute: If You are contributing original material as Open Game Content, You 
represent that Your Contributions are Your original creation and/or You have sufficient rights to grant the rights 
conveyed by this License. 
6.Notice of License Copyright: You must update the COPYRIGHT NOTICE portion of this License to include the exact text 
of the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any Open Game Content You are copying, modifying or distributing, and You must add 
the title, the copyright date, and the copyright holder’s name to the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any original Open Game 
Content you Distribute. 
7. Use of Product Identity: You agree not to Use any Product Identity, including as an indication as to compatibility, 
except as expressly licensed in another, independent Agreement with the owner of each element of that Product Identity. 
You agree not to indicate compatibility or co adaptability with any Trademark or Registered Trademark in conjunction 
with a work containing Open Game Content except as expressly licensed in another, independent Agreement with the 
owner of such Trademark or Registered Trademark. The use of any Product Identity in Open Game Content does not 
constitute a challenge to the ownership of that Product Identity. The owner of any Product Identity used in Open Game 
Content shall retain all rights, title and interest in and to that Product Identity. 
8. Identification: If you distribute Open Game Content You must clearly indicate which portions of the work that you are 
distributing are Open Game Content. 
9. Updating the License: Wizards or its designated Agents may publish updated versions of this License. You may use 
any authorized version of this License to copy, modify and distribute any Open Game Content originally distributed 
under any version of this License. 
10. Copy of this License: You MUST include a copy of this License with every copy of the Open Game Content You 
Distribute. 
11. Use of Contributor Credits: You may not market or advertise the Open Game Content using the name of any 
Contributor unless You have written permission from the Contributor to do so. 
12. Inability to Comply: If it is impossible for You to comply with any of the terms of this License with respect to some 
or all of the Open Game Content due to statute, judicial order, or governmental regulation then You may not Use any 
Open Game Material so affected. 
13. Termination: This License will terminate automatically if You fail to comply with all terms herein and fail to cure 
such breach within 30 days of becoming aware of the breach. All sublicenses shall survive the termination of this 
License. 
14. Reformation: If any provision of this License is held to be unenforceable, such provision shall be reformed only to 
the extent necessary to make it enforceable. 
15. COPYRIGHT NOTICE
Open Game License v 1.0a Copyright 2000, Wizards of the Coast, LLC. 
System Reference Document 5.1 Copyright 2016, Wizards of the Coast, Inc.; Authors Mike Mearls, Jeremy Crawford, 
Chris Perkins, Rodney Thompson, Peter Lee, James Wyatt, Robert J. Schwalb, Bruce R. Cordell, Chris Sims, and Steve 
Townshend, based on original material by E. Gary Gygax and Dave Arneson. 
Adventures in Middle-earth Player’s Guide Copyright 2016 Cubicle 7 Entertainment Ltd/Sophisticated Games Ltd; 
Authors: James Brown, Paul Butler, Walt Ciechanowksi, Steve Emmott, Gareth Ryder-Hanrahan, Jon Hodgson, 
Shane Ivey, Andrew Kenrick, TS Luikart, Dominic McDowall, Francesco Nepitello, James Spahn, Ken Spencer.
Adventures in Middle-earth Loremaster’s Guide Copyright 2017 Cubicle 7 Entertainment Ltd/Sophisticated Games 
Ltd; Authors: Walt Ciechanowski, Steve Emmott, Jon Hodgson, TS Luikart, Dominic McDowall, Francesco Nepitello, 
David Rea, Jacob Rodgers, Gareth Ryder-Hanrahan and Ken Spencer.
Adventures in Middle-earth Rivendell Region Guide Copyright 2018 Cubicle 7 Entertainment Ltd/Sophisticated 
Games Ltd; Authors: Francesco Nepitello, Shane Ivey, Andrew Kenrick, Thomas Morwinsky, Jacob Rodgers, James 
M. Spahn, Amado Angulo and Marco Maggi.
Adventures in Middle-earth Lonely Mountain Region Guide Copyright 2019 Cubicle 7 Entertainment Ltd/
Sophisticated Games Ltd; Authors: Gabriel Garcia, Andrew Kenrick, Mark A. Latham, T.S. Luikart, Francesco 
Nepitello, Jacob Rodgers, James M. Spahn and Kenneth Spencer.
Adventures in Middle-earth Erebor Adventures Copyright 2019 Cubicle 7 Entertainment Ltd/Sophisticated Games 
Ltd; Authors: John Arcadian, Paul Butler, Gareth Hanrahan, Jon Hodgson, Andrew Kenrick, T.S. Luikart, Paul 
Mitchener, Francesco Nepitello, Jacob Rodgers, James Semple, John Semple and Graham Spearing.
END OF LICENSE
TM
TM
Visit the city of Dale and discover the wonders of the Kingdom Under the Mountain 
and the lands beyond with this essential guide for the world’s greatest fantasy setting.
TM
TM