--- PAGE 1 ---
Six linked ready to play adventures
for the world’s greatest fantasy setting.
TM
TM

--- PAGE 2 ---
Written by Adam Dials, James R. Brown, Richard Harrison, T.S. Luikart, Marco Rafalá and James M. Spahn.
Additional writing by Andrew Kenrick and Francesco Nepitello
Edited by Andrew Kenrick and Francesco Nepitello
Converted by Jacob Rodgers
Cover by Ralph Horsley
Art by Andy Hepworth, Jon Hodgson, Sam Manley, Jeremy McHugh and Jan Pospíšil
Graphic Design and layout by Paul Bourne
Creative Direction by Jon Hodgson and Dominic McDowall 
Proofread by David Rea and Jacob Rodgers
 
Based on The One Ring Roleplaying Game by Francesco Nepitello and Marco Maggi
© Sophisticated Games Ltd 2018     © Cubicle 7 Entertainment Ltd 2018
To find out more about Adventures in Middle-earth, and 
to subscribe to our newsletter, please go to: www.cubicle7.co.uk
Product Identity: The following items are hereby identified as Product Identity, as defined in the Open Game License version 1.0a, Section 1(e), and are not Open Content:
All trademarks, registered trade-marks, proper names (characters, place names, etc.), new rules, classes, items, virtues, backgrounds, places, characters, artwork, 
sidebars, and trade dress. Open Game Content: The Open content in this book includes material taken from the Systems Reference Document. No other portion of this 
work may be reproduced in any form without permission.
Published by Sophisticated Games Ltd, 3 Andersen Court, Newnham Road, Cambridge CB3 9EZ, UK and 
Cubicle 7 Entertainment Ltd,  Suite D3, Unit 4, Gemini House, Hargreaves Road, Groundwell Industrial Estate, 
Swindon, SN25 5AZ, UK
 
 
The One Ring, Middle-earth, The Hobbit, The Lord of the Rings, and the characters, items, events and places therein are trademarks or registered trademarks of The 
Saul Zaentz Company d/b/a Middle-earth Enterprises and are used under license by Sophisticated Games Ltd and their respective licensees. All rights reserved. No 
part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording 
or otherwise, without the prior permission of the publishers. 
Printed in Lithuania
- credits -
2

--- PAGE 3 ---
Introduction	
4
The Return of the Witch-king	
5
How to Use This Guide	
5
Experience Awards	
6
The Passing of Years	
6
Nightmares of Angmar	
7
Adventuring Phase	
7
Part One - Black Helms	
8
Part Two - Orc-work	
14
Part Three - Concerning Hill-women	
18
Part Four - Mountains & Monsters	
22
Part Five - Carn Dûm	
27
Part Six - An Unexpected Foe	
32
Epilogue - To Rivendell	
34
Harder than Stone	
36
Adventuring Phase	
36
Part One - Road Maintenance	
37
Part Two - At the House of Elrond	
42
Part Three - Picking up the Trail	
45
Part Four - Deep Plans	
47
Part Five - Bargains in the Night	
52
Part Six - Into the Ettendales	
55
Epilogue - The Black Voice	
60
Concerning Archers	
61
Adventuring Phase	
61
Part One - Riddles of Rivendell	
61
Part Two - The Dead and The Fallen	
65
Part Three - Into Darkness	
68
Part Four - The Last Batt le of the Green Company	
70
Epilogue - Bringers of Tidings	
74
Fellowship Phase	
74
The Company of the Wain	
75
Adventuring Phase	
75
Part One - A Travelling Fair	
76
Part Two - Investigating the Caravan	
83
Part Three - False Accusations	
85
Part Four - She Sees, She Knows	
88
Part Five - When Dark Things…	
90
Epilogue - Fellowship Phase	
91
What Lies Beneath	
92
Adventuring Phase	
92
Part One - In Rivendell Where Elves Yet Dwell	
93
Part Two - The Journey West	
95
Part Three - The Secret Manor	
98
Part Four - A Night of Treachery and Madness	
104
Epilogue - Húldrahir Defeated	
109
Shadows over Tyrn Gorthad	
110
Adventuring Phase	
111
Part One - The Vigilance of Mithrandir	
112
Part Two - Return to Angmar	
117
Part Three - The Valley of the Dead	
120
Part Four - On the Downs	
127
Part Five - The Hidden Vault at Fornost	
128
Part Six - Mirabella’s Song	
131
Part Seven - Oldest and Fatherless	
133
Part Eight - Casting Out The Shadow	
136
Epilogue	
140
Index	
141
- contents -
3

--- PAGE 4 ---
Eriador Adventures
4
- introduction -
This guide contains six ready-to-play adventures for 
your Company of heroes, complete scenarios that can 
be played separately, or as a linked series of adventures 
spanning across a number of years. All adventures are 
notionally set in the years after 2954, and take place in 
eastern Eriador, but none are so strongly tied to a date 
that you cannot move them earlier or later, depending on 
the needs of your campaign. 
These adventures all draw on the setting information 
contained in the Rivendell Region Guide, and that 
supplement will provide a necessary companion to these 
adventures. 
The first adventure takes the companions from the 
foothills of Gundabad across the Misty Mountains to the 
former capital city of Angmar and finally to Rivendell 
itself. The following five adventures are set in the various 
lands surrounding the Vale of Imladris. This adventure 
set assumes that the heroes have some experience under 
their belts… perhaps having played through the events 
of Wilderland Adventures, some part of the Mirkwood 
Campaign or having used the Rivendell Region Guide to 
compose some beginning adventures. Companions will 
want to be of at least 5th level to meet the challenges of 
Eriador Adventures. 
The six adventures are:
Nightmares of Angmar (Levels 5 or 6)
A Company of heroes embark on a desperate mission 
to recover the stolen children of the Black Hills from the 
Goblins who took them. They must find safe passage 
through snow and peril into the mountains of Angmar 
and the ruined city of Carn Dûm. It will take stout hearts to 
win against evil and treachery but perhaps the Company 
will find some sanctuary in Rivendell.
Harder than Stone (Levels 6 or 7)
A fearsome servant of Sauron has arrived in Eriador to 
rally the Trolls to the service of his dark master. The heroes 
set out to find out more about this ‘Ogre Captain’ and 
discover both a sinister plot and an unlikely ally, a spirit 
bound to the will of Sauron but who would like to escape.
Concerning Archers (Levels 7 or 8)
Bilbo Baggins, at Rivendell researching his book in the 
company of Glorfindel and Lindir, asks the heroes to 
search the ruins of the north to prove that there really 
was a regiment of Hobbit archers that marched to fight in 
the Battle of Fornost. To do so they must seek a forgotten 
battlefield and enter a long-abandoned ruin, all the while 
contending with spirits, Orcs and the ghosts of the past.
The Company of the Wain (Level 8 or lower)
The heroes cross paths with an itinerant group of tinkers 
and traders, selling their wares to the scattered folk 
of Eriador. But the traders are not what they seem — 
their leader is an agent of the White Hand, gathering 
information for Saruman.

--- PAGE 5 ---
5
Introduction
What Lies Beneath (Levels 8 or 9)
The companions join a Ranger, Hiraval, on his quest to 
reclaim his ancestral home in the ruins of Arthedain, 
crossing paths with a group of bandits who might not 
be all they appear at first. But an ancient ancestor still 
resides within the holding, a Spectre who seeks to corrupt 
Hiraval’s bloodline forever.
Shadows Over Tyrn Gorthad (Levels 9 or 10)
Gandalf suspects that the Barrow-downs hold more secrets 
than even the Wise know. Can the Company stand with 
the Grey Wizard against a foe darker than the darkness?
The Return of the Witch-king
While the adventures found in Eriador Adventures can 
stand alone, told together they warn of the rise of the 
Shadow and the return of the Witch-king to Angmar in 
readiness for the War of the Ring. 
But, like Sauron in The Lord of the Rings, our villain is never 
seen and cannot be defeated by force of arms. As the heroes 
adventure, they should find themselves more and more 
troubled by this growing threat — the Hillmen gathering, the 
Trolls organising, the restless undead of Eriador stirring. 
But to march upon Angmar would prove both fruitless and 
disastrous… their foe is deathless and his hour has not yet 
come.
You may think this premise gloom-laden and dour, and 
you would be right to do so; but have heart that the 
actions of heroes can still have an impact, and mayhap 
their victories combined will afford their people respite 
against the Shadow.
Themes
In addition to the more prosaic notes introducing each 
quest, Eriador Adventures also provide information 
on themes for each adventure. Loremasters can use 
these themes to help customise each adventure for their 
Company and help them flavour the heroes’ interactions 
with Middle-earth.
How to Use This Guide
Most of the adventures presented in this guide are self-
contained, and can be played as single quests without 
reference to any past or future adventure. You can pick 
the most appropriate adventures to run based on the 
composition of your players’ Company and their journeys 
across Eriador.
The Company of the Wain is organised such that it can 
be interspersed with other adventures. For example, the 
Company might encounter the caravan for the first time 
whilst investigating Bilbo’s legends, only to stumble across 
it again at the end of What Lies Beneath. Allowing several 
seasons to pass between encounters can help the players 
appreciate the passage of time in Middle-earth.

--- PAGE 6 ---
Eriador Adventures
6
Shadows Under Tyrn Gorthad similarly takes place 
over several years and you are able to intersperse other 
Adventuring phases between its scenes if you like. 
However, this adventure can be enhanced by first playing 
through the other adventures and its final chapters are a 
suitable conclusion for Eriador Adventures.
Journey Events
The Rivendell Region Guide provides an extensive set 
of example standard Journey Events customised for 
Eriador and often includes characters that appear in 
Eriador Adventures. However, there are additional 
custom Journey Events provided herein for certain 
adventures. These can be used in substitution for 
randomly generated events or in addition to them.
Experience Awards
Throughout this volume you’ll see symbols in the 
margin. These indicate a chance for the Loremaster to 
award Experience Points for overcoming challenges. These 
opportunities are optional, to be made at the Loremaster’s 
discretion and in accordance with the method of levelling 
they have chosen. They might form a direct, numerical 
award or a silently observed instance that counts towards 
gaining a whole level if enough are checked off. 
Every game will vary, but these Experience Awards have 
been calculated to offer a good chance for a typical Company 
to level up in accordance with the pace we suggest for this 
campaign.
Eriador Adventures makes use of the Companion and 
Challenge Rating Experience Award Table (provided 
below) for non-combat encounters. Just as a combat 
encounter should be scaled to reflect the size of your 
company, so too should these Awards be scaled to match 
your group of adventurers. 
The symbols in red represent an individual achievement 
and are awarded to a single hero. Those in green are 
intended to be divided amongst the party. Experience 
derived from battle is calculated according to the core 
rules – for the sake of simplicity and consistency there is 
no change there.
	
Challenge	
XP 	
Challenge	
XP
	
1	
200	
6	
2,300
	
2	
450	
7	
2,900
	
3	
750	
8	
3,900
	
4	
1,100	
9	
5,000
	
5	
1,800	
10	
5,900
The Passing of Years
If you want to follow the default pacing of gameplay 
suggested in Adventures in Middle-earth, playing all the 
adventures contained in Eriador Adventures should take 
several years. Every scenario offers plenty of opportunities 
to keep the companions busy for a year of game time, as 
the players can easily follow their Adventuring phase with 
a fruitful Fellowship phase, or even start a supplemental 
Adventuring phase building upon the consequences of the 
previous one. (Some suggestions concerning the follow-
up to each adventure are presented at the end of the 
scenario). Even if you don’t feel comfortable with playing 
one adventure per year of game time, we suggest that you 
at least let one year pass for every two adventures. A tight 
pace of gameplay could be as follows:
Nightmares of Angmar could be run as the last adventure 
of 2973, starting in Wilderland and ending with the heroes 
spending a winter’s Fellowship phase at Rivendell. Harder 
than Stone is suited as the first adventure of the following 
year, starting in spring as the Company meets up once 
again. Concerning Archers could then be played as the 
second adventure of that year, starting in the summer.
The events of The Company of the Wain could, if the 
Loremaster wishes, be spread across several years, woven 
in between any of the previous adventures as required.
What Lies Beneath is best started in spring of 2975, so 
would suit being played as the first adventure of the 
following year. Shadows Over Tyrn Gorthad might then 
begin later in that summer, but this adventure is intended 
to take multiple Adventuring phases across several years 
to complete.
Individual
Award
Group
Award

--- PAGE 7 ---
7
- Nightmares - 
of Angmar 
For heroes of level 5 or 6
• 
When: The Company may undertake this quest 
during the autumn of any year between 2954 and 
2977.
• 
Where: The adventure begins in the Black Hills in 
the Vales of Gundabad, goes to the Mountains of 
Angmar and the ruined fortress of Carn Dûm, and 
may end in Rivendell among the Elves.
• 
What: Goblins raid the dens of a Hill-men tribe 
and kidnap their children, kill some of their wives, 
and escape into the North. The Player-heroes begin 
having nightmares of a desolate fortress where the 
children are being held captive. They embark on a 
quest to rescue them and must persuade the Hill-
men to forsake their dark past and join the Free Folk 
of the North against the Shadow.
• 
Why: The Lord of the Nazgûl is luring the Hill-men 
of Gundabad back to the ruins of Carn Dûm to 
reestablish it as a stronghold of sorcery. If the Player-
heroes can save their children and make allies of the 
Hill-men, they will save them from going down such 
a terrible path of evil and thwart the plans of the 
Enemy.
• 
Who: The Company is joined by Hwalda, Essylt, 
and Fráech — three Hill-men whose fate hangs in the 
balance.
• 
Themes: It is up to the heroes to not only make friends 
with those who once counted them as enemies, they 
must exemplify their ideals to convince those new 
friends to turn against their ancient allies and throw 
off the Shadow’s yoke. 
Adventuring Phase
This adventure is divided into six parts, comprising the 
opening contest with the Hill-men, the gathering of the 
Company, the journey over the Misty Mountains into 
Angmar, the hunt in the ruins of Carn Dûm, and the final 
flight to Rivendell.
For details concerning several locations and characters 
featured in this adventure (including the Hill-men of 
Gundabad, Werewolf Hollow, Hwalda the Guide, and so 
on) see the description for the Vales of Gundabad, in the 
Rhovanion Region Guide, starting from page 13. 
As this adventure begins in Wilderland, it is the perfect 
way to bring an existing Company from Wilderland 
over the Misty Mountains and into Eriador. While the 
Company might desire to return to Wilderland once the 
adventure is over, they might fall under the enchantment 
of Rivendell instead, and find themselves eager to explore 
this new land further.
Companies from Eriador
It may be the case that the Company is already based 
in Eriador. If this is the case, the Hillmen of Gundabad 
may be replaced by Hill-men of Rhudaur, and have the 
adventure begin in Rhudaur instead. Part Four will most 
likely be cut out entirely, but the trek along the Frozen Path 
may be enlarged instead by adding in any of the material 
presented in the Rivendell Region Guide — for example, 
they might encounter Thark’s tribe and find him already 
allied with Carn Dûm, or stumble across the lair of Snow-
trolls or worse. 
Part One – Black Helms
In the Black Hills of Gundabad, the Player-heroes 
encounter a tribe of Hill-men. The companions compete 
in a ritual fight to prove themselves and achieve trust with 
the savages, but their celebration is interrupted by a thick 
grey cloak of mist that quickly settles over the land.
Part Two – Orc-work
When screams are heard through the fog, it is soon 
discovered that Goblins have raided the dens of the 
Hillmen, killing their wives and kidnapping their children. 
Pursuit is cut off by a pack of vicious Wargs. The Player-
heroes begin to have nightmares of ancient ruins filled 
with evil creatures.
Part Three – Concerning Hill-women
The companions join a young orphaned woman named 
Essylt on a quest to recover the stolen children, which 
include her younger siblings. She is protected by Fráech: 
a fierce warrior from her uncle’s tribe. But how will they 
navigate the frozen mountains of the North? They must 
Nightmares of Angmar

--- PAGE 8 ---
Eriador Adventures
8
locate Hwalda, an experienced guide with no love for 
Goblins or Wolves, and persuade her to lead them.
Part Four – Mountains and Monsters
The companions dare to journey across the Misty 
Mountains and into Angmar, in the face of patrolling 
Goblins and a terrible threat from the ancient past. 
Part Five – Carn Dûm
When at last the Company reaches the ruins haunting 
their dreams, they must search their underground halls 
and tunnels to find the children. 
Part Six – An Unexpected Foe
An evil servant of the Shadow tries to seduce Essylt to join 
him in rebuilding the kingdom of Angmar. The fate of the 
Hill-men and their children is finally determined.
Epilogue – To Rivendell
Thanks to their heroic deeds, the companions are granted 
access to Rivendell, the sanctuary guarded by Master 
Elrond.
The Eye of Mordor
If you are using the optional Eye of Mordor rules 
presented in the Rivendell Region Guide, any 
revelation episodes occurring during this adventure 
are likely to revolve around the sudden treachery of 
allies, in particular any Hill-men of Gundabad that 
the Company encounters, or an increase in the threat 
posed by the Goblins of Carn Dûm.
- Part One - 
Black Helms
It is a gloomy day when the Company steps foot in the 
Black Hills. A cold mist is gradually descending from 
Mount Gundabad to the North, spreading forth like 
probing, ghostly fingers across the ground. There are 
several reasons why the Player-heroes may have travelled 
to this area, when most days they would likely have 
avoided the dangerous Vales of Gundabad:
• 
They are searching for wild horses, offspring of the 
steeds of the Éothéod.
• 
They are hunting Wargs or Goblins, or searching for 
the legendary Werewolf Hollow.
• 
They were sent by a patron, such as Beorn or Radagast, 
to muster allies to stand against the wicked things 
being drawn to Dol Guldur in recent years.
• 
They have come to explore any of the notable places 
in the Vales of Gundabad or to search for the Lost 
Watchtower (see Rhovanion Region Guide, pages 17–
19) and they want to consult the Hill-men for lore or 
even to hire a guide.
Whatever their purpose, upon entering the lightly wooded 
hills, they pass a barren patch of ground in the shape of 
an imperfect circle. The rock and dirt are a smoky grey, as 
if an intense fire had burned there in ages past.
Memorial Circles
They say the Black Hills are haunted by ghosts, 
inhabited by wild men, and crawling with wolves. 
Northmen are encountered rarely here, as they shun 
the Black Hills out of fear that a cruel vengeance will 
be enacted upon them for the actions of their ancestors 
— centuries ago, the Éothéod had been relentless in 
their fight against all servitors of Angmar, seeing 
them only as wicked workers of sorcery and friends of 
Goblins and Wargs.
Today, circles of barren ground dot the hills where the 
Éothéod piled and burned the bodies of their enemies. 
No grass or flower ever grows on these dead spots, and 
their emptiness remind the Hill-men of their sorrow-
filled past and the divide that exists between them and 
the Northmen. Yet, among the Hill-men tribes, there 
are some who speak of a day when the circles will bloom 
again. That will be when the strength of their people 
will be restored, when they will rise from the ashes. 
Tribesmen holding to such beliefs visit a memorial 
circle before they engage in important endeavours, like 
going on a raid, or hunting.

--- PAGE 9 ---
9
The Player-heroes may wish to stop and inspect the circle. 
If they do, a successful DC 13 Intelligence (History) 
check tells them that this might be a funeral site from long 
ago, used when the Éothéod cleansed the Vales of the Men 
of Angmar.
Discovered in the Hills
A pair of Savage Wolfdogs comes bounding over a high 
wall of earth in the distance, greeting the Company with 
barks and snarls. They are large beasts with a wolf-like 
appearance. They do not attack, but turn and head in the 
direction whence they came. At this point, the companions 
must decide what to do.
• 
The companions may ascend the hill and follow the 
Wolfdogs;
• 
They may take up defensive positions among the trees 
and rocks in preparation for a possible encounter;
• 
They may dash in the opposite direction to escape a 
possible confrontation.
A companion acting as the Look-out of the Company and 
succeeding in a DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check has 
noticed the Wolfdogs in time to attempt a single ranged 
attack before the Wolfdogs disappear. The shot will be at 
Disadvantage due to the mists and the distance.
The Wolfdogs belong to a group of Hill-men who were 
approaching the memorial circle from the other side of 
the mound. Their barking alerts the warriors who quickly 
draw their weapons and prepare themselves for any 
aggressive action that might be coming; they cannot be 
ambushed.
• 
If their pets were shot at, the Hill-men become enraged 
and charge over the hill with great howls in the 
tongues of Wargs to attack the Player-heroes.
• 
If they stayed their bows, the Hill-men warriors will 
wait for the companions to approach, or after a few 
minutes they will quietly climb the hill themselves in 
search of the source of the disturbance.
The companions may try to stop them and engage them 
socially before things turn deadly. If combat erupts, 
the statistics for Hill-men warriors can be found in the 
Rhovanion Region Guide, page 126. There are 12 warriors 
(plus a maid, see Among the Hill-men on the following 
page), but of varying health and ability, accompanied by 
as many Savage Wolfdogs as there are heroes. See the 
following pages for the special abilities each Hill-man 
possesses.
However, as soon as one Wolfdog or Hill-man is killed, 
Cynbal, their Chieftain, orders his men to stop fighting. 
Enough bloodshed and tragedy has occurred in these hills 
and they cannot afford more losses now. (If one of the Hill-
men dies, it will be either Heilyn, Sul or Uthecar.)
Savage Wolfdogs
The dogs of the Hill-men of Gundabad have been bred 
with Wild Wolves to increase their ferocity. Fully grown, 
they are tenacious beasts, easily pitted against predators 
twice their size. Sometimes, their savage nature is difficult 
to deal with, as they may easily harm a child if unwittingly 
provoked.
Savage Wolfdog
Medium Beast
STR 
16 (+3)
DEX 
15 (+2)
CON 
12 (+1)
INT 
4 (-3)
WIS 
12 (+1)
CHA 
8 (-1)
Armour Class 12
Hit Points 16 (3d8+3)
Speed 40 ft
Skills Perception +3
Senses passive Perception 13
Languages -
Challenge 1/2 (100 XP)
Keen Smell. The Savage Wolfdog has Advantage on 
Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on smell.
Quick and Cunning (1/day). The Savage Wolfdog may 
Dash and then use its bonus action to make a single 
attack with its Cruel Jaws.
Actions
Multiattack. The Savage Wolfdog makes two attacks 
with its Cruel Jaws.
Cruel Jaws. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 6 (1d6+3) slashing damage and the target 
must make a DC 13 Strength saving throw or become 
Prone. 
Nightmares of Angmar

--- PAGE 10 ---
Eriador Adventures
10
Among the Hill-men
In all accounts of history and lore, the Hill-men of 
Gundabad are described as a hateful and wicked folk (see 
also the description for Angmar in the Rivendell Region 
Guide, on page 50). Their forefathers served the Witch-
king in Angmar, performing many vile and murderous 
acts, and were almost annihilated when the Morgul-
lord was defeated by an alliance of Elves and Men. The 
warriors encountered by the companions belong to a tribe 
descending from those Hill-men who escaped the wrath of 
their enemies by hiding east of the Misty Mountains, in 
the Vales of Gundabad.
They dwell in a nearby cluster of primitive shelters, more 
dens than houses, and are a malnourished, easily angered 
lot. The more unfortunate among them are stunted or 
otherwise deformed, the result of decades of inbreeding. 
Here follow the description of the group of Hill-men 
encountered by the companions. With the exception of 
Essylt (a girl) and Forgall (an old man), they are the best 
warriors of the tribe (their wives and children remained at 
home). If the Player-heroes can somehow make allies out 
of the Hill-men, they can turn the tide of hundreds of years 
of history and redeem them from their ill-favoured past…
Cynbal the Chief: The leader of the pack. Cynbal is 
rugged and weather-worn, yet pallid from living in the 
darkness under the hills. He will likely use his Savage 
Assault in battle. His brother Heddwyn the Seer and most 
of his tribe were lost in a tragic cave-in last year, leaving 
Cynbal in charge of raising his nieces and nephews 
and providing for their grieving mother. As of late, his 
patience is waning; too many nights dealing with children 
and not enough time in Spirit-Warg form. He talks in a 
low, jarring voice while pointing two scabrous fingers at 
anyone he addresses. Cynbal’s main concern is always 
the preservation of his kin.
Fráech: The second-in-command. Fráech is a warrior of 
great strength and skill with a spear. He is Big for a Hill-
man. He brazenly shows awful scars on his left arm: the 
evidence of a bear attack. He is not well-spoken and is 
unable to write, but if he is caught in a good mood, he may 
recount the tale of the night he killed the beast by ripping 
its muzzle apart and stabbing it through the heart. He will 
recall the great feast that lasted many days afterwards. 
To end his story, he will bare his teeth in a wicked grin 
while stroking the fur cape wrapped around his torso and 
jabbing his spear into the air. Fráech has never married, 
but he is quietly interested in the Chief’s eldest niece: the 
fairest Hill-maiden he has ever seen.
Bedwyr: Protector and personal bodyguard of the Chief. 
He will prove Desperate if hurt in combat. He is never 
caught without his spear and a thick wooden shield 
displaying the carved image of a Savage Wolfdog’s head: 
the chosen symbol of the tribe. He wears a black iron cap 
matching his equally dark eyes, while his beard is full and 
untamed, covering the birth deformity of his jaw. Bedwyr 
is a fiercely loyal cousin to Cynbal and is easily driven to 
rage when he perceives that the chief’s life is threatened. 
That is why he is the preferred choice to take the Chief’s 
niece as a wife.
Heilyn, Sul and Uthecar: Three scraggy men carrying 
shields and blades. They are Poorly Protected compared 
to their fellows, however. These are the Chief’s younger 
brothers serving as the tribes’ scouts and look-outs. They 
are agile and keen-eyed and are able to command their 
dogs well. They are similar in appearance and age, yet 
easily distinguished by their embellishments: one wears 
an armband of teeth, another a bright green tunic, and 
the other a large helm masking his countenance.
Daga and Nantha are the names of their Savage Wolfdogs 
— male and female. Nantha recently had a litter of pups 
who are resting safely at home in the dens.
Gwal: Small and simple, Gwal is Cynbal’s disfigured 
son, born of his youngest sister who died of blood-loss in 
childbirth. If attacked, his foe will learn that he is a Biter. 
He was a child of pity and disconsolation, for no one else 
would give her offspring. His one eye droops while the other 
one raises; one ear is deaf while the other never formed; one 
hand has six fingers while the other has two. As for his legs 
and feet, they work better than those of others. Therefore, 
Cynbal uses Gwal as an errand-rider, to run hotfoot to the 
dens and warn the wives of looming hazards.
Durthacht and Madacht: Twin sons of the Chief. These 
burly men carry extra-long iron spears, self-made using a 
crucible, moulds and hammers as taught to them by their
Uncle (they count as wielding Great Spears and do 8

--- PAGE 11 ---
11
(1d12+2) piercing damage on a successful attack). In fact, 
they wear many pieces of iron jewellery such as rings, 
bracelets, and clasps. Even their helms are shod with 
layered plates, sections, and ornaments, making them the 
most elaborately designed of the tribal headgear. Their 
beards are forked and plaited for convenience when they 
eat or speak. Durthacht is missing fingers while Madacht 
is blind in one eye.
Forgall: Cynbal’s venerable father, who is Weak in Limb. 
In his lifetime, Forgall has witnessed the diminishing of 
his folk. Many have died of disease, weak bones, flooding, 
and in squabbles with their enemies. He believes all of 
this has been brought on because they have parlayed with 
River-folk traders, Beornings, Woodmen and other Men 
of the Anduin Vales who have dared travel as far north 
as the Black Hills. “Werewolves and Goblins make better 
friends,” he always says, his eyes red and feral.
March: Sprouting son of Madacht. Only recently has 
March joined the men on their outings. He is half the size 
of his father, but wears a heavy iron helm and carries a 
broad sword (He has AC 13 and does 6 (1d8+2) slashing 
damage on a successful attack). He is eager to kill his first 
large mountain goat for its horns; but if he could slaughter 
a bear? Why, then he would be as famous as Fráech among 
the tribes and his father would be very proud!
Taredd: Crazed and unstable warrior. Of all the tribe 
members, Taredd is the cruellest, acting more like a wild 
wolf than a Man. He is a Dirty Brawler in combat. He 
wears no helm, leaving his unkempt hair to poke in every 
direction, filled with needles and thistles. His clothes are 
ragged and stained by the blood of pine martens, which 
he loves to kill for sport — with his teeth! 
Anyone encountering Taredd needs to be wary, for at 
any moment his mood may shift, and they could find 
themselves the victim of a savage bite or a razor-sharp 
fingernail cut to the throat.
Essylt: Soon-to-be wife-prize, niece of Cynbal. If forced 
into combat, she is cunning enough to use a Distraction 
Attack. Possessing a beauty rare among Hill-women, 
Essylt has drawn the attention of several suitors. Her 
uncle wishes to give her away to Bedwyr today, but he will 
have to win the Black Helms first, proving himself to be 
superior in strength and cunning. She is not happy with 
these arrangements because she is not ready for marriage; 
she would rather jump in a river! (For a Hill-man — that’s 
the worst kind of death). 
Oh, how she misses her father Heddwyn, the wisest man 
she’s ever known, unlike all these muddled dimwits. She 
hisses and spits at the thought of a husband!
Nightmares of Angmar

--- PAGE 12 ---
Eriador Adventures
12
Key Moments
During parts of the adventure, Key Moments will 
be identified that will determine the fate of Essylt in 
the end. If the companions take certain actions, they 
will influence her positively; if they do not take those 
actions, they will influence her negatively. 
The Loremaster should keep track of the outcomes of 
these scenes, for they will determine the difficulty of 
persuading Essylt to turn against the Witch-king. Her 
decision in this matter will change the history of her 
people.
While the Loremaster is aware of these Key Moments, 
the Player-heroes should be unaware of them and how 
important they will be to the conclusion of the quest.
If it seems appropriate, additional Key Moments can 
be created on the spot. It does not matter how many of 
these scenes are factored into the final difficulty.
Speaking With Cynbal
If the Company engages the Hill-men peacefully, they 
speak to their Chief face to face. He orders his warriors to 
lower their weapons, then pushes his way forward.
Motivation: I am leader of the tribe now, but what hope 
is there for my people? 
Expectations: +2 If the heroes acknowledge him as a 
ruler and pay him deference; -1 if they use cautious words 
or dissemble their purposes; -2 if they are rude to his 
followers or mock them.
Starting Attitude
The Hill-men are normally Mistrustful of strangers, but 
they may only look Askance at them if no aggression 
has been shown and there are no Elves or Dúnedain in 
the Company. If either a Hill-man or a Wolfdog has been 
slain, the Introduction Check is made at Disadvantage. If 
the Hill-men are Mistrustful and this check is failed, then 
the Audience has automatically failed (see below).
Introduction
The Chief will respond positively to any presentation 
given using humility (a DC 10 Intelligence (Traditions) 
check), but he will reject all attempts to impress him with 
other skills, and those must be made as DC 15 checks 
with Disadvantage. It is best that one person handles 
these remarks.
Interaction
The Hill-men want to know what is the Company’s purpose 
for coming to the Black Hills. What the companions want 
from the Hill-men depends on why they were wandering 
the Black Hills in the first place. Cynbal is a man of 
few words, but generally answers any questions the 
companions pose him in a respectful manner. Generally, 
for each piece of information he provides, he requires to 
be told something about the Company in return. If the 
companions indulge the old chief’s curiosity, he may offer 
lore about the Vales of Gundabad, how to find a guide, or 
even offer temporary shelter and food in his tribe’s dens. 
After the audience has been going on for a while, Cynbal 
tires of the word-duel, and stands up while twirling and 
swinging his sword in an impressive manner, showing 
his mastery with the aged weapon. He then points at the 
spokesman to do something similar.
“In these lands, warriors are judged worthy by their skill 
with a blade or a spear, or by a display of their strength. 
Show me!”
To truly impress Cynbal, the Player-hero will need to 
perform a spectacular move with a weapon of the player’s 
choice by making two successful attack rolls in a row as if 
the target was AC 15. If the companion fails a roll, Cynbal 
is unimpressed and dismisses him. The rest of the Hillmen 
howl in mockery.
If successful, Cynbal is satisfied, and invites the hero to 
participate in a contest of strength he calls “the Black 
Helms” as the Company’s champion.
If the Audience fails (for any reason), Cynbal offers little 
help, but allows the companions to redeem themselves by 
offering one hero of his choice the chance to participate 
in the games.
5

--- PAGE 13 ---
13
The Black Helms
This is a form of ritual fight practised by the Hill-men 
of Gundabad. It was invented when two rambunctious 
warriors squabbled over the magnificent helms of two 
fallen enemies, lords of the Éothéod. Legends say that 
the warriors each strapped a helm upon their head, 
and then in a display of bestial savagery, wrestled to 
remove their opponent’s helm until one finally succeeded 
by breaking the other’s neck. During the contest, 
onlookers hallooed and guffawed while slinging black 
mud into the eyes of the wrestlers, which ended up 
splattering and caking their helms too; thus the name 
Black Helms.
Much of the game remains the same today (without 
the requirement of breaking a neck) and any number 
of contestants can compete at once. This mock combat 
has helped to preserve some of the greater warriors 
among the tribes. 
The winner of the contest is simply the last person to 
keep his headgear on; when it is removed, they are 
eliminated. Wooden buckets of fresh, slick mud are 
placed around the arena’s perimeter so that spectators 
can join the action and make a mess of things. Prior to 
each challenge, rewards for the winner are negotiated, 
with the Chief getting the last word.
Wrestling with Hill-men
The companions are led to a small patch of hard ground, 
nestled in the centre of surrounding hills, where the earth 
forms a natural arena about 40 feet in diameter.
The rules and prizes are quickly reviewed by the Chief: 
Contestants will be disqualified for using weapons, 
deliberately harming opponents or if they get outside 
assistance (other than the mud). The prizes include 
a roast of cow, a lush fur cape, and Essylt the Fair, the 
niece of the Chief! Companions wishing to influence the 
stated rewards can do so with skills such as Persuasion 
or Riddle, but gold (or even silver) is not available even if 
they get on their knees and beg for it.
The fight is handled in a series of rounds in which the 
contestants try to remove the helms from their opponents. 
The last warrior with their helmet on wins. 
Bedwyr, Fráech, and Taredd are the competitors for today. 
Each wears a distinct and dramatic helm. If the Company’s 
champion does not have his own helm, he must borrow 
one, for example using Persuasion. If he can think of 
another way to acquire one, that would be fun too!
When the Chief raises his spear, all hell breaks loose amid 
uncontrolled Warg-cries!
Key Moment: Test of Sympathy
If the Player-heroes recognise Essylt’s unhappiness (as 
a result of an Insight check, perhaps) and suggest an 
alternative prize, they will influence her positively. 
Otherwise, she will remember their moment of 
indifference and be influenced negatively.
Running the Fight
The mock fight uses the following guidelines, in addition 
to the normal combat rules:
• 
At the beginning of his turn, the Company’s champion 
may use his bonus action to make an Intimidation 
check to demoralise his opponents. The DC for this 
check is equal to 12 plus the highest Charisma 
modifier level among all remaining contenders. On 
a success, the champion gains Advantage on any 
Athletics checks this round.
• 
Companions who are watching the fight may 
assist their champion by flinging mud on a specific 
opponent. They do this by making a DC 12 Strength 
(Athletics) check with Disadvantage. A success makes 
the champion’s opponent Blinded but a failure with a 
natural 1 means that the mud got in their companion’s 
eyes and he now is Blinded!
• 
The Loremaster makes a single Athletics check for the 
entire tribe to sling mud at the Company’s champion. 
The DC for this check is equal to 12 plus the hero’s 
2
Nightmares of Angmar

--- PAGE 14 ---
Eriador Adventures
14
Dexterity modifier. A success means the companion 
is Blinded.
• 
On his turn, a warrior may attempt to grapple his 
opponent. If his opponent is already Grappled, he may 
make a DC 15 Strength (Athletics) check instead to 
remove the enemy’s helm. A warrior can also use 
his action to remove mud from his eyes and end the 
Blinded condition.
In the first round, Fráech charges the Company’s 
champion, choosing him out as his opponent. Meanwhile, 
Bedwyr charges Taredd!
The following tables indicates the areas where each 
warrior deviates from the standard entry for a Hill-man 
of Gundabad:
	
Opponents	
Statistics
	
Bedwyr	
Strength 17 (+3), Athletics +5
	
Fráech	
Charisma 16 (+3), Intimidation +5
	
Taredd	
No changes
A Celebration Ruined
As soon as the ritual fight is over, a dense fog rolls 
in, making it impossible to proceed with the planned 
celebrations in honour of the winner. The loss of visibility 
and sudden chill strike fear in the superstitious Hill-men, 
and the companions find themselves doing all they can 
to keep from being hustled and trampled underfoot by 
the escaping tribesmen. Cynbal orders everyone back to 
the dens and Gwal is already on the move to warn the 
Hillwomen. The Chief addresses the Company:
“This fog is the work of sorcery! It is dangerous to stay 
outside. Please, come and stay the night under the earth 
with us. We’ll eat and finish our ceremonies there.” 
But before the companions can respond to Cynbal, 
a distant scream is heard. It is a woman crying out 
in absolute terror. Her voice is sustained and echoes 
throughout the hills, increasing to its highest pitch before 
suddenly being cut off, leaving only the sound of the cold 
wind. 
Old Forgall speaks in a scolding growl to his son.
“That was your woman! You should not have welcomed 
these outsiders!”
- Part Two - 
Orc-work
After a short run in the fog, thick smoke suddenly fills 
everyone’s nostrils. Flames can be seen rising from the 
Hill-men refuges, rough houses of dried mud, wood and 
piled rocks built around the entrances to their tunnel 
network under the hills. Gwal stands there coughing and 
choking and the sound of yelping puppies can be heard in 
the lick of flames. Daga and Nantha – if they are still alive 
– race in to find their offspring but never return. 
Deathly afraid of the fire, the Hill-men are frantic and 
bewildered. They can go no further, except Fráech, who 
reluctantly proceeds, disappearing into the smoke. Essylt 
is crying and looks to the companions for help.
“Please, please. I am too scared to go! My mother and 
sisters and brothers are in there. They are all I have.”
Key Moment: Test of Sacrifice
If the Player-heroes respond to Essylt immediately and 
head into the flames, they will influence her positively; 
for she will remember their sacrifice. If they hesitate or 
stop to talk or plan, they will influence her negatively.
Fire and Anguish
Choosing to rush into the fire is extremely dangerous. 
Player-heroes will automatically take 2 points of fire 
damage in the first round due to smoke and flame, 
increasing to 3 points the second round, 4 the third round 
and so on (up to 5 points per round).
Have them make a DC 15 Intelligence (Investigation) 
check every round to locate survivors. Sadly, during the 
first few rounds, they discover several Hill-women lying 
dead on the ground, pierced with arrows, broken blades 
5

--- PAGE 15 ---
15
sticking out of their lifeless bodies, hands tied behind their 
backs with ropes (companions witnessing this gruesome 
scene must make a Corruption test or gain 1 Shadow 
point. See Anguish, on page 181 of the Adventures in 
Middle-earth Player’s Guide).
After the third round, the next hero that succeeds finds the 
only survivor: a Hill-woman hiding in a large hole in the 
ground weeping with deep sobs. She will emerge from the 
flames on her own if they do not find her, or if they have 
left the camp already. It is Briga, the wife of Madacht; she 
is pregnant.
“Goblins! Goblins! They have taken all the children! They 
went down into the tunnels and disappeared into the 
dark! Save them, please, save them…”
The fire is too intense to reach the tunnels, however. 
Anyone who foolishly attempts this will fall unconscious 
and need to be rescued before they burn in the flames. 
They must join the tribe on the outskirts of camp and seek 
another entrance.
Warg Attack
Outside the burning camp, a pack of Wild Wolves arrives 
to attack the companions: emissaries of an unseen enemy 
sent to thwart them. Forgall greets his Warg friends in 
their growling tongue and speaks to a large Wolf-leader, 
while the rest of the tribe, including Cynbal and Essylt 
leaves quickly to access other passageways in pursuit of 
the Goblins.
The companions do not understand the language of the 
Wild Wolves, but anyone who makes a DC 15 Wisdom 
(Insight) check understands enough to prepare for an 
attack, preventing them from being Surprised. Those with 
Enemy-lore (Wargs) may invoke the trait as normal.
If none of the heroes succeed at the check, the Wargs spring 
to the attack after conversing with Forgall, automatically 
Surprising the Company.
The Enemy
There are two Wild Wolves for every companion in addition 
to a Wolf-leader. Forgall does not fight, but his loyalty is 
to the Wargs. The Player-heroes may wish to address him, 
but if they kill him, they will each gain 4 points of Shadow 
for the misdeed and effectively end their relations with the 
Hill-men (see the box below).
Killing Forgall
If the companions kill Forgall, the Loremaster will 
need to rework some of the adventure as any future 
encounters with the Hill-men tribe will be futile. He 
was the eldest of their kin, beloved and well respected. 
The Hill-men will order the Player-heroes to leave the 
Black Hills upon discovering Forgall’s body, or fight 
them to the death in a rage of fury. If the companions 
hide the body, they will gain another 2 points of 
Shadow each for their treachery and it will be found 
before morning.
The tribe will ambush the Company at first light, but 
not before one of them is awakened by a nightmare 
(see The Nightmares Begin on page 16). If the 
companions escape or kill the entire tribe in the fight, 
Essylt and Briga will be the only survivors. Briga will 
leave to find another tribe, but Essylt will plead with 
the companions to help her find her siblings. It will be 
the last hope the heroes have for reconciling with the 
Hill-men of Gundabad.
Combat Scenery
The hills are lightly wooded and there are several thickets 
about. The grey fog makes visibility difficult, each hero 
can only see in dim light to a range of 30 feet. The Wild 
Wolves are unhindered by the fog, however.
Fight Events
The following battle events may be considered by the 
Loremaster and incorporated at appropriate moments.
Forgall’s Hatred
The elderly Hill-man surges with primal energy, circling 
the fight and baring his teeth, saying: “Die! All of you; for 
you should never have come here.”
• 
Each hero must make a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw 
or become Frightened of the Wargs until the end of 
the combat.
Nightmares of Angmar

--- PAGE 16 ---
Eriador Adventures
16
Freezing Fog
The temperature falls rapidly, filling the air with small 
ice crystals similar to a light snow, and hard rime begins 
forming on surfaces here and there, adding to the already 
terrible conditions.
• 
The fog now counts as Blinding all of the heroes. The 
Wargs remain unaffected.
Cowardly Retreat
If the Wild Wolves are losing, Forgall slinks away to avoid 
being left alone with the Player-heroes in the aftermath. 
The Wargs will fight to the death.
After the Fight
Before the companions can address their wounds, a 
regiment of grey crows scatter suddenly from the pines, 
heading northward. The snow and fog obscure them 
slightly from view, but amidst their cawing a few words 
can be heard distinctly: “Return to Angmar! Carn Dûm! 
Carn Dûm!” they say, over and over as they fly away.
Soon after, Cynbal and the tribesmen return to address the 
Company, taking notice of the dead wolves lying slumped 
on the ground. They are distraught, soaked and troubled. 
One of them – possibly Bedwyr – steps forward to speak: 
“You have brought ill upon us! We should kill you now, 
as you have killed these wolves. Our anger grows hot, 
for we are vexed. The Goblins were our friends, yet this 
is their work? We cannot enter the tunnels: they are filled 
with smoke. Why have they turned on us? Why have they 
taken our kin, slain our women, and burned our homes? 
Where have they gone? They will pay for this! We will hunt 
them down, rip apart their stinking flesh, and eat them 
for dinner.”
Let the companions talk with the tribesmen to sort out 
these disconcerting events using Persuasion, Riddle or 
Traditions checks. The DC for these checks varies… 15 to 
calm the Hill-men, but 20 or more to determine the reason 
for the Goblin attack. Forgall tries to rally the tribe against 
the Company, while March – his great grandson – seems 
to be smitten with the adventurers, especially anyone 
carrying a sword. No major decisions will be made yet 
concerning a rescue. In the morning, they will gather 
other chieftains and warriors for a special tribal council 
to decide the best course of action. Essylt, overcome with 
grief, only cries and never utters a word.
If the companions mention the message of the crows, 
Cynbal recognises Angmar and Carn Dûm as places 
connected to the history of his folk, but fails to remember 
the sorcery and wickedness of the Lord of the Nazgûl. 
In his imagination, Carn Dûm was a magnificent city, 
destroyed by the cruel Men of the West and the ferocious 
Elves. Why their children should be taken to Angmar now, 
he does not know.
The Nightmares Begin
By the time the conversation ends, the fog has lifted, and 
night has fallen. If the Company has upheld good relations 
with the Hill-men, Cynbal offers them shelter in a hidden 
burrow outside the camp. It is a crude hideout of sorts, used 
only by husbands temporarily banned from home (they 
do not see where the Hill-men go to sleep). That evening, 
some of the warriors prowl the land in Spirit-Warg form 
in search of their children, but they find nothing. Wherever 
the companions end up, they toss and turn, unable to get 
a good night’s rest. They do not benefit from a long rest.
Before the break of dawn, the companion with the highest 
Shadow points score awakens from a nightmare, drenched 
in sweat, and startles the rest of the group with a loud 
gasp. In case of a tie, or if no companion has any Shadow 
1

--- PAGE 17 ---
17
points, then the dreamer is the hero with the lowest 
Wisdom score. The following should be read aloud or 
given to the dreaming hero in advance so he can relay the 
nightmare to the rest of the Company:
There is a long wide bridge covered in snow before you. It 
spans across a deep gorge. Across the chasm, the remnants 
of great towers lie in ruins and shrouded in ice. You can 
hear the sounds of children crying from somewhere 
beneath it, in the bowels of the mountain. But when you 
begin to cross over, a piercing wail fills the freezing air, as 
something high above you blots out the light of the dying 
sun…
The dreamer must pass a DC 20 Wisdom saving throw (a 
Corruption check) or gain 1 Shadow point.
Secrets of a Resurrecting Kingdom
The children have been kidnapped and are being taken 
to Carn Dûm, the stronghold that once was the capital 
of the ancient kingdom of Angmar. There, they will 
grow as servants of the new Shadow that is gathering in 
the depths of the fortress, trained in poison-making and 
metalworking side-by-side with Orcs and Goblins. Their 
capture has been ordered by a new minion of Angmar, 
a Hill-man of Gundabad restored to his sorcerous roots: 
Heddwyn, father of Essylt and brother to Cynbal!
Heddwyn the Seer was a man foresighted, and could 
travel the farthest as a spirit-wolf. The night before a 
tragic cave-in buried him and a large part of his tribe, 
he had dreamt that he would die soon, and be reborn as 
a greater man. He ignored that the fateful accident was 
part of a larger plan orchestrated by the Enemy, for 
most of the victims were not killed as everyone supposed. 
Rather, the buried tribesmen were rescued by Goblins 
and then taken in chains through long, dark tunnels and 
pathways under the mountains all the way to Angmar. 
The Hill-men never attempted to recover the bodies of 
their kin — to dig them out would have cost more lives — 
so they believed them all dead.
Heddwyn reached the ruins of Carn Dûm in the grip of 
a burning fever. Left for dead in a deep dungeon, he 
was visited by the Lord of the Nazgûl himself, recently 
arrived in Angmar in his guise as the Wraith-lord (see the 
Rivendell Region Guide, page 87). Sensing an unusual 
power in the derelict form of the Hill-man seer, the Lord 
of Morgul saved Heddwyn’s life with his dark arts, at 
the same time awakening in his soul the memories of the 
sorcery of his ancestors.
When he finally recovered from his illness, Heddwyn felt 
reborn into a new stature, and destined to a higher, albeit 
darker, fate. He started to believe that only by obeying 
the will of the Witch-king could his people rise again to 
their former strength. If they entered his service they 
would no longer need to hide in the Black Hills, suffering 
at the hands of the hated Northmen. 
Months have now passed since the rebirth of he who was 
once known as Heddwyn, of the tribes of the Black Hills. 
He is now a dabbler in sorcery and poisons, a spear of 
terror in the hand of the Lord of the Nazgûl. Placed in 
a position of power by the Wraith-lord himself, he has 
commanded the Goblins of Angmar to fire the forges 
of Carn Dûm once again and create a new arsenal of 
weapons and armour.
Through the terrible strength of Mountain Trolls and 
Orcs he has dug a stone vault to protect his sleeping body 
and those of his fellow Hill-men. Each night, he roams 
the icy mountains and the wastes in spirit-wolf form, 
howling words of power in the language of Wargs. He 
summons all Orcs and Evil Men into service, for he has 
become the Witch-servant of Angmar! 
It is by obeying his orders that the Goblins have come to 
the Vales of Gundabad to collect the children of the Black 
Hills, knowing that the vile act would draw his daughter 
Essylt to him. It is his sorcerous cries that are causing the 
nightmares of the companions; visions designed to draw 
them toward their doom.
Nightmares of Angmar

--- PAGE 18 ---
Eriador Adventures
18
- Part Three - 
Concerning Hill-women
The Hill-women of Gundabad are a reticent but very 
perceptive bunch, wild-looking and unkempt, for theirs 
is a toilsome life. Under the leadership of their men 
they have suffered many trials: the loss of children and 
husbands, siblings and parents, and the many dangers 
deriving from living in the Black Hills, surrounded by 
Wargs, Werewolves, and Goblins. In spite of all this, 
most Hillwomen are content with serving and surviving, 
enjoying their everyday activities of raising children, 
tending cows, sheep and goats, making and washing 
clothes, growing beans, churning butter, and cooking 
meals. But there are some among them who desire to be 
able to change all this one day, as the companions will 
soon discover…
Essylt the Fair
Essylt is a young Hill-woman with a fiery spirit and an 
eagerness to break free from the constraints of the life 
of the Hill-men. She was born without deformity, her 
skin smoother and softer than that of most newborns, 
her eyes tinted green. She has always been the object 
of curiosity, gaining wanted and unwanted attention. 
But her father Heddwyn was always there to protect 
her — until the day he died. 
Essylt hasn’t stopped grieving for her loss, for her 
father’s death changed everything, but most notably, 
it left her vulnerable. Last night, that vulnerability 
was exploited, and now her mother lays dead on the 
cold, wet ground and her siblings are lost somewhere 
in a dark, winding tunnel, being led by filthy Goblins 
into the frozen north. She is alone in the world, but not 
forever — not if she determines her own fate.
Tribal Council
Early in the morning, the companions discover that a 
number of chieftains of various Hill-man tribes have 
gathered for a council, on top of a nearby mound within 
sight of the now smouldering camp. The bodies of the dead 
have been covered and gently laid out on slats of wood 
in preparation for burial. The leaders are deciding their 
next course of action, but things do not appear to be going 
well. If the children of Cynbal’s tribe are still alive, they 
now must be farther than any Hill-man of Gundabad dare 
travel for fear of flood waters and the mountain mists.
Tempers flare as they discuss their options. They cannot 
count on the Beornings for help or any Northmen for 
that matter. Some entertain the idea of going to speak 
with Nagrhaw, the Chief of the Wargs of the Black Hills 
(see Rhovanion Region Guide, page 17): his spies and 
informants roam far and wide. Another chief reluctantly 
mentions sending a rescue expedition, but this idea is 
protested with pleas that they should remain in the Black 
Hills to preserve their lives, rather than risking exposure to 
their enemies; the chief withdraws his suggestion quickly.
Company Interjections
Any 
companion 
making 
a 
DC 
13 
Intelligence 
(Traditions) check may join the council to ask questions 
and proffer solutions.
• 
If inquiring about their fear of flood waters, a 
companion need only make a DC 10 Intelligence 
(Riddle) check to prompt the following story from one 
of the chiefs:
“Many years ago, Northmen raided our hunting 
camps and enslaved twenty of our warriors. They 
were put in chains and forced to row fishing boats for 
long hours on the twin rivers of the vales. One day, 
when the boats were moored on the shore, they saw 
an opportunity to free themselves and they seized 
it. They took the Northmen by surprise and secured 
them with ropes. After eating some fish from the 
packing barrels, they emptied the rest. Then, they 
got their revenge: they crammed the prisoners into 
the containers, filled them with river-water, and 
sealed them shut and drowned the slavers. As soon 
as they were finished, a terrible storm arose out of 
the mountains; floodwaters rushed in and swept 
them down the river, along with the barrels of dead 
Northmen. Most of the warriors perished, the water 
took them, but a few survived to tell the tale. The 
storm lasted a fortnight, killing many of our hill 
people and livestock as recompense for their actions. 
Today, the curse is not fully satisfied, so we avoid the 
7

--- PAGE 19 ---
19
rivers and the mists, trying not to provoke them and 
remind them of our debt.”
• 
Anyone wishing to convince the Hill-men not to 
visit Nagrhaw, may attempt a DC 17 Charisma 
(Persuasion) check. If they suggest that the chief of 
the Wargs is in league with the kidnapping Goblins by 
mentioning last night’s attack, they gain Advantage 
for rousing their suspicions.
• 
A successful DC 13 Wisdom (Insight) check reveals 
that nothing will persuade the Hill-men to undertake 
a rescue mission of their own. They are deeply afraid 
to leave their families and uncertain about future Orc 
raids.
It seems that no satisfactory solution will be reached to 
recover the children.
Key Moment: Test of Courage
If the companions offer themselves to go on a quest 
for the children without any prompting, Essylt will 
be positively impacted by their bold courage. If they 
do not suggest it on their own, without her plea, this 
moment will result in an overall negative impact due to 
her disillusionment of them as noble heroes.
Essylt’s Resolve
If the Company volunteers to lead an expedition to recover 
the children, Essylt is very thankful and announces that 
she will go too. Fráech offers to be her bodyguard (go to 
Cynbal’s Farewell ).
If the companions do not volunteer to lead a rescue 
expedition, Essylt steps into the centre of the gathering, her 
sable hair shining and flowing freely upon her shoulders, 
her eyes hard and resolute as she makes a proposal of 
her own. She especially looks at her Uncle Cynbal and the 
companions when she speaks.
“Sit here and argue to no end as you will, brave warriors of 
the Black Hills and strange visitors too. But here is what I 
will: I will hinder your safe plans by marching into Angmar 
myself and reclaiming my brothers and sisters! They are 
but frightened children in the cruel hands of Goblins. I 
may now be an orphan maiden, but that is not all. Essylt 
I am, Heddwyn’s daughter. Do not stand between me and 
my kin. Move aside or join me, for I defy the man who 
would attempt to stop me.”
One of the Hill-men jumps up suddenly and leaps toward 
her. He threatens her with a snarl.
“Submit yourself, woman, to the wishes of the council.”
Still she does not blench. In one swift motion, Fráech steps 
forward and shoves the man aside.
“Leave her alone. I will go with Essylt – as her protector.”
It is time for the companions to respond. Will they join 
her too? They are not obligated to go on such a dangerous 
quest, but this is a test of their heroism and their only 
chance to broker peace between the Hill-men tribes and 
the Free Folk of the North, and to gain them as allies in the 
fight against the Dark Lord.
Cynbal’s Farewell
Observing that he cannot halt such determination, Cynbal 
finally concedes and the council disperses amid concerns. 
He lets out a heavy sigh, and addresses the Company. 
Nightmares of Angmar

--- PAGE 20 ---
Eriador Adventures
20
“How long your journey will be, I do not know. It is 
autumn now, but the cold freeze of winter is upon us and 
it will be worse high in the mountains. You will need the 
warmest clothes, plenty of food, and sharp weapons by 
your side. I fear for your life Essylt, but there is nothing 
left for you here. If you must, go and find your brothers 
and sisters and bring them home again. We will look for 
your coming over the hilltops, on a clear, cool morning 
in spring. And if the grasses and flowers are growing 
upon the memorial circles, it will be a sign that our dark 
days have passed.”
But We Do Not Know The Way 
Neither Essylt nor Fráech have ever travelled outside the 
Vales of Gundabad, let alone across the Misty Mountains 
into the West. They do not know the passes or where the 
dangers are to avoid them. They also haven’t the foggiest 
idea of how to find the fabled citadel of Carn Dûm. 
These facts are unnerving considering the severe cold 
and awful conditions that the Company is certain to 
face. Therefore, sometime during the packing of their 
fur-lined cloaks, thick warm clothes, boots, dried meats, 
nuts, frying pans, pots, water-skins, ropes, torches, flint, 
weapons, helms and other important travelling gear, 
Essylt makes the suggestion that they go and find a guide, 
who can keep them alive during the journey. And the only 
person she can think of is a Hill-woman named Hwalda, 
a strange figure that her father always referred to as the 
Angry Mixed-blood. She lives among the tribes on the 
south-western edge of the Black Hills about a days walk 
from here. She is seldom home, however, as she is often 
exploring, or guiding anyone willing to give her the proper 
remuneration.
Fortunately for the Company, Cynbal and his men saw her 
a few days ago returning from a trip; she will be easy to 
find.
Wait! It can’t be Hwalda!
It is entirely possible that the companions have already 
encountered Hwalda in an earlier adventure and that 
something might prevent her from being part of this tale 
(she died, or is away on another assignment). If that is 
the case, simply create an alternative figure that they 
can approach, and substitute that person for Hwalda 
throughout the rest of this adventure.
Meeting Hwalda
After a day’s walk through the hills, the Company comes 
to a new encampment of Hill-men in an alcove of pines. 
Essylt and Fráech suggest they should approach alone 
first, to prevent frightening the women and children seen 
milling about.
If the Company takes this advice, everything will proceed 
as normal; otherwise, they will make their Introduction 
Check with Disadvantage. One of the women calls to 
Hwalda, who emerges from a small hut. She approaches 
with her hand on the hilt of her sword. 
Motivations and Expectations: Hwalda is detailed 
on page 16 of the Rhovanion Region Guide. See the 
Interaction section below for additional modifiers.
Introduction
Hwalda views all strangers Askance until she has 
measured their worth. The Player-heroes should present 
themselves and the purpose of their coming. Hwalda 
is fascinated to see those of her kin travelling with a 
group of adventurers. They may also use Riddle instead 
of Traditions to extract information about Hwalda’s 
background. Otherwise, she does not speak of herself.
Interaction
After hearing the Company’s request, anyone observing 
closely will notice something is troubling Hwalda and 
can inquire about it with a DC 10 Intelligence (Riddle) 
check. She will reveal that she has been experiencing 
dreams of a dark fortress in the past and has indeed 
crossed the Misty Mountains in search of it. If they 
mention the message of the crows or their own dreams 
they gain an Expectation modifier of +2 as she is 
convinced that the dreams are related to Carn Dûm and 
carry some dark significance.
Because the quest is very dangerous, she will need to be 
convinced to undertake the task of guiding them. She is 
particularly concerned about the onset of winter in the 
mountains. Even with her knowledge of the passes, it will 
be a difficult journey, and there can be no guarantees of 
their safety.
As far as the overall motivation to rescue the children 
is concerned, a clear explanation will provoke a good 
5

--- PAGE 21 ---
21
response from Hwalda. It can also be used to speak about 
how the quest will positively affect relations between 
the Northmen and the Hill-men tribes. Either argument 
awards a +1 modifier.
Final Audience Check
The audience may yield the following results:
Failure: Hwalda portends that the quest to rescue the 
children is doomed and it is best to stay here and wait out 
the oncoming winter. Only the most extraordinary bribes 
(30 gold pieces or more) will move her (as if the heroes had 
earned the next entry).
Success by 0–1: Hwalda is troubled over their chances 
of survival and asks for a payment of 10 gold pieces up 
front to join the group, to be completed with half of all 
treasure found during the expedition. In addition, her 
contract includes abandonment of the quest as soon as 
anyone dies or is captured. She will not be responsible for 
any casualties and she will not divert from the course to 
Carn Dûm for any reason.
Success by 2–3: The Company has impressed Hwalda, 
but not completely. She will require only 5 gold pieces to 
start and a quarter of any treasure found. The contract 
stipulates that she will abandon the quest if more than 
one death or capture occurs. She will participate in a 
rescue attempt only if she deems it possible, but she will 
not divert from the route to Carn Dûm.
Success by 4–5: What has been shared has gripped 
Hwalda in some way. She requires 3 gold pieces to 
begin and a quarter of any treasure found. Her contract 
recognises the danger of such a quest and says that she 
will only abandon it if at least half the Company is killed 
or captured. She will cooperate in any necessary rescue 
attempts and she is willing to divert from her planned 
route only if she feels it is safe enough and will not 
excessively delay the quest.
Success by 6+: Hwalda is completely sold on the purpose 
and cause of this quest. She likes the companions and 
therefore only requires an equal share of any treasures 
found as remuneration for her services. She does not 
ask for any prior payment, and she commits to the 
quest wholeheartedly. Deaths and captures are noted 
as possibilities, but she will not abandon the Company. 
She is willing to assist in all rescues and see the Company 
through to the end. If diversions are called for and it 
seems profitable, she is willing to extend her duties to 
accommodate them.
Key Moment: Test of Zeal
If the companions talk about saving the children and 
making peace between Northmen and Hill-men with 
Hwalda, they will influence Essylt positively in the 
end. If they do not, she will remember their dullness 
and be influenced negatively.
Before Departure 
The Company is invited to stay as guests of Hwalda in the 
Hill-men camp. Not much activity takes place, as all the 
warriors are away on a hunting trip for several days and 
do not return. Each of the heroes can benefit from a long 
rest before beginning the dangerous journey.
Loremaster Characters in the Company
The Loremaster should keep in mind for the rest of 
the adventure that the companions are not alone. 
Revelation episodes can be customised to feature 
Hwalda, Essylt or Fráech, and their presence 
should be accounted for in any combat encounter or 
Journey Event. Hwalda can take on a journey role 
if necessary and Essylt and Fráech can help the 
companions, providing Advantage on two other roles 
(see Travelling Together on page 8 of The Road 
Goes Ever On). Essylt and Fráech use the statistics 
for Hill-men warriors on page 126 of the Rhovanion 
Region Guide, while Hwalda is detailed on page 16 
of the same manual. See Among the Hill-men on page 
10 for details of their additional combat abilities.
A Second Nightmare
One night, another nightmare visits the Company. As 
before, the dreamer is the companion with the highest 
1
Nightmares of Angmar

--- PAGE 22 ---
Eriador Adventures
22
Shadow points score. In case of a tie, or if no companion 
has any Shadow points, then the dreamer is the hero with 
the lowest Wisdom score.
Down, down, down, you descend a spiral stair into 
blackness toward the sounds of crying children. You are 
careful not to slip or tread too hard, for the steps are 
damaged and chipped as if some ancient army trampled 
on them with heavy iron shoes. In your hand is a flickering 
torch casting unsettling shadows on the stone walls all 
around. The air is chilled and carries the scent of must, 
fur, and rotten meat. Your heartbeat grows stronger with 
each footstep.
When you reach a landing, you step onto it, waving your 
torch from side-to-side to reveal what lies ahead in the 
darkness: nothing to the right; nothing to the left; nothing 
before or behind. Yet, a long nasty growl seems to be 
coming from… above! Without warning, a monstrous 
wolf jumps down from a shelf, planting itself face-to-face 
with you. Its eyes are crimson and threatening, its fur is 
matted and coarse.
 
You draw your weapon with your free hand before it lunges 
to bite your neck. You intercept the attack, jabbing deep 
into the creature’s mouth; but then it evaporates! For a 
moment you stand in the torch-light alone… until a low, 
eerie voice whispers from behind, “Serve him, or die!” And 
you snap out of your dream.
The dreamer must pass another Corruption check by 
making a DC 20 Wisdom saving throw or gain 1 Shadow 
point.
- Part Four - 
Mountains & Monsters
The journey from the Black Hills to Carn Dûm is 
a dangerous adventure in itself, an endeavour the 
companions may face only with Hwalda accompanying 
them. Without the knowledge of the hidden Goblin-roads 
criss-crossing the foothills of Mount Gundabad leading 
west, the companions do not have many chances to find 
the way leading across the Misty Mountains. And even 
if they get there, only Hwalda (or another experienced 
guide) may lead them across the blasted Grey Waste of 
Gundabad without them losing days on end, searching for 
a good trail to follow.
The Journey
During the first leg of the journey, the Company will 
travel from the Black Hills north across the Vales of 
Gundabad, and then cross the Misty Mountains to enter 
the Grey Waste on the other side. On the second leg 
of the journey, they will cross the waste to find a road 
leading into the Mountains of Angmar, and all the way 
to Carn Dûm.
Mountains of Angmar
o
E
The Frozen Path 
The Grey Waste 
Carn DumE
>
u
Vales of
Gundabad
o
o
Angmar
5

--- PAGE 23 ---
23
Setting Out
The Company will face a Peril Rating of 5 as they seek the 
Long Valley underneath the shadow of Mount Gundabad, 
due to the severe terrain and the threat of winter oncoming. 
Because Hwalda has travelled this route before (in spirit-
form and physically), the Embarkation roll may be made 
twice and the better result kept.
Crossing the Misty Mountains
To traverse the mountain range the Company must head 
north-west for 20 miles, and ascend a tract of upland 
moor to find the entrance to the Long Valley. It is a steep-
sided gap in the Misty Mountains, opening right under the 
face of Mount Gundabad. The valley climbs roughly from 
east to west for 60 miles, to finally descend in a south-west 
direction into the Grey Waste. This leg of the journey takes 
about 12 days and prompts 1d2 Journey Events, using the 
custom table below.
To approach the mountain range in autumn worsens a 
traveller’s predicament, as strong winds are channelled 
between the steep rock faces of the valley. If by ill chance the 
companions are attempting to cross the mountains in the 
fall of 2954, the worst winter in living memory is coming… 
snow and ice will put the Company under constant threat 
of freezing and all Journey Event rolls are made with 
Disadvantage despite the outcome of the Embarkation roll.
1d12
Long Valley Journey Events
3 or 
less
Out on a Ledge
The Scout has been tricked by the thick snow that has fallen during the night and treads too close to the edge of the path. 
You must make an Intelligence (Investigation) check or fall 1d4 x 10 feet as you stumble and slip down the steep rock.
4-6
Freezing Waters
The Guide must make a Wisdom (Survival) check. On a failure, the only way forward you can find is a mountain 
stream rushing between two steep rock-faces. To make forward progress, the companions must enter its frigid 
waters up to their waist. 
Each hero must make a Constitution saving throw, gaining a level of Exhaustion on a failure.
7-9
A Solace Found In Silence
Snow covers the Long Valley and it seems that no beast dares to disturb the quiet that has also fallen. Each hero 
must make a Wisdom saving throw. 
If successful, you’ve the time in quiet contemplation that strengthened your resolve and you gain Inspiration. If you 
fail, the silence has you on edge and you will make your next Journey Event roll with Disadvantage.
10 or 
more
Orc Ambush
The Orcs of Mount Gundabad occasionally send spies and scouts to watch over the entrance into the Long Valley. 
The Lookout must make a Wisdom (Perception) check or stumble into an ambush.
The ambush consists of as many Goblin Archers as there are total members of the Company (including their Hill-men 
associates), supported by a group of Misty Mountain Goblins of the same number. If the heroes engage in battle, it 
requires a DC 15 Charisma (Persuasion) check to convince Essylt or Fráech to attack their erstwhile allies.
Nightmares of Angmar

--- PAGE 24 ---
Eriador Adventures
24
The Eye is Watching
If you are using the rules for the Eye of Mordor 
introduced in Rivendell Region Guide on page 110, 
consider the following: to keep warm, the Company 
needs to risk lighting fires, though it may attract 
unwanted adversaries. If they risk campfires then 
increase the Hunt score by 2. If they attempt to cross 
the Long Valley without fire increase their Exhaustion 
level by 1 as they tire from shivering in the cold. 
If the Company is revealed in the mountains, they 
draw the attention of an Orc patrol from Gundabad! 
You may use the Orc Ambush journey event (previous 
page) to resolve the Encounter.
The Lurker in the Long Valley
The Long Valley could be considered the safest way to cross 
the Misty Mountains north of the Gap of Isengard, if it 
weren’t for the threat of flooding and the many precipices 
filled with waterfalls that travellers must traverse (see 
also Rhovanion Region Guide, page 13). The presence of 
Goblins from Mount Gundabad would be a problem too, 
but the real menace hiding in the deep cleft is much worse 
than just Orcs…
Lurking in the crevices and fissures cut by wind and water 
in the rock is an ancient and foul creature. Originally a 
dweller of the deep places of the world, it was attracted to 
the surface by the blood spilt in the wars fought under the 
earth by Dwarves and Orcs. Once it made its lair among 
their peaks, the thing fed for centuries on the travellers who 
attempted to cross the Misty Mountains and lost their lives 
at the bottom of the many waterfalls of the Long Valley. 
When the Men of the West crossed over to the Vales of 
Gundabad chasing their enemies at the time of their 
war against Angmar, they encountered the monster and 
fought it, for they could not suffer such a foulness to live. 
The creature retreated in front of those tall Men and their 
long swords of steel and, finding refuge among the roots 
of the mountains, it bade its time. With the passing of the 
centuries it finally grew hungry again, and slowly crawled 
back to the surface.
Today, the threat posed by the Lurker in the Long Valley 
is known well to the Orcs and Goblins, who have learnt 
how to pay tribute to it and quench its hunger from time 
to time: a small band of scrawny Goblins pose as bait, and 
provoke any traveller into chasing them into the narrow 
confines of a cave opening. Then, the thing emerges, 
taking care of the unfortunates.
Hwalda has never encountered the creature, nor has she 
fallen into the Goblins’ trap. But she does not like the 
eerie silence that sometimes seems to suddenly shut out 
all sounds in the valley, leaving only the echo of a faint 
piping; heard or maybe just imagined, she could not say. 
At some time during the crossing of the mountains, when 
the Loremaster deems it most appropriate, the Look-out 
of the Company spots a group of Goblins of Carn Dûm (at 
least two for every member of the Company) traversing their 
path ahead of them. They seem to be carrying a bundle, 
vaguely human-like in shape. Fleet of foot, the Goblins start 
running among the rocks, along a trail descending towards 
a shadowy cleft among mossy rocks and trickling water.
If the companions fall for the ruse, then they track the 
Goblins to a dark cave opening. The weakly creatures 
seem to be taking their last stand, as they huddle together, 
swords and spears at the ready, their backs to the sheer 
rock wall. When the companions approach them, the 
heroes barely have time to notice the discarded bundle 
used as bait and the unusual chill that seems to issue from 
the cave mouth — then, the Lurker attacks!
The monstrosity that emerges from the darkness defies 
description. A cluster of pincers and blade-like legs seems 
to explode from the dark recesses of the cavern, as an 
intermittent piping sound breaks the unnatural silence 
that had fallen on the valley. If it could be seen in its 
entirety, the thing could be likened to a giant, misshapen 
hermit crab: it pushes its crustaceous front end into the 
cleft outside the cave, leaving its long, soft vulnerable 
abdomen inside the cavern opening.
The Lurker is armed with a set of long chelae and many 
steel-hard knobbly legs, which keep any attacker away 
from the small head crowned with small, pale eyes 
shining like opals. From its slit-like mouth issues the 
incessant, sickly piping that raises its tempo whenever

--- PAGE 25 ---
25
the creature lunges to attack its enemies. The Lurker 
in the Long Valley is a powerful adversary and the 
companions might decide it would be wise to flee from 
it — despite its hunger it will not leave the safety of the 
caves. As long as the heroes are engaged with the Lurker, 
the cowardly Goblins will stay back, taking shots with 
their Bows of Horn as the opportunity presents itself. 
They will attack a weakened Company or scatter if the 
heroes deal quickly with the Lurker.
If the companions succeed in reducing the Lurker to 40 
hit points or fewer, the monster retreats into the depths 
of the earth, leaving a trail of black, thick blood. If they 
advance to explore the cave opening or to finish off the 
monster, they discover that the creature has slithered into 
an almost vertical tunnel that seems to spiral downwards 
into the deeps. Barring a full-fledged expedition to the 
centre of the earth, the companions will be left to explore 
just the antechamber, the room lying just beyond the cave 
opening.
The antechamber is bleak and barren, filled with an 
almost overpowering stench. Scattered about is a hoard 
of stolen treasures, half-buried in bones and debris: brittle 
weapons, splintered shields and dry rotten clothing and 
gear paint the sad story of many an unfortunate traveller. 
But among the waste lie older artefacts, relics from a past 
when these mountains and their underground paths saw 
the passage of many Dwarves: Gold coins, jewellery and 
other precious objects amount to a Hoard with a value of 
40** treasure, mostly of Dwarven craftsmanship. On top 
of the lot is a pale green beryl, an Elf-stone, but “whether 
it was set there, or let fall by chance” it’s impossible to say.
The Lurker in the Long Valley
Huge Aberration (Nameless Thing)
STR 
21 (+5)
DEX 
10 (+0)
CON 
24 (+7)
INT 
6 (-2)
WIS 
10 (+0)
CHA 
9 (-1)
Armour Class 16 (Natural armour)
Hit Points 162 (12d12+84)
Speed 40 ft, climb 40 ft 
Condition Immunities: Prone
Skills Perception +3, Stealth +3
Senses darkvision 60 ft, passive Perception 13
Challenge 8 (3,900 XP)
Horrible Strength. If the Lurker makes a successful 
melee attack, it may use its bonus action to cause 5 
additional damage of the same type to the target.
Unyielding (Recharge 5-6). The Lurker can use its bonus 
action to gain 14 temporary hit points.
Blade-like Legs (Recharge 5-6). The Lurker can use its 
bonus action to slash at everything nearby. Each target 
within 5 feet of the Lurker must make a DC 16 Dexterity 
saving throw, taking 26 (4d6+12) slashing damage or half 
as much damage on a successful one.
Actions
Pincer Crush. Melee Attack: +8 to hit, reach 10 ft, one 
target. Hit: 14 (2d8+5) bludgeoning damage and the target 
must make a DC 17 Strength saving throw or become 
Grappled (Escape DC 17). If the Lurker already has a 
Grappled target, it may use its action to inflict 23 (4d8+5) 
bludgeoning damage instead.
What catches the eye of anyone entering the room though 
is an inscription graven against the rock walls of the 
cave opening, cut by a Man of considerable height, or by 
someone standing on some support.
Nightmares of Angmar

--- PAGE 26 ---
Eriador Adventures
26
 HERE BELEGORN SON OF BERGIL OF DOL AMROTH
BANISHED THE THING FROM THE ABYSS
BUT DIED OF ITS FOUL WOUNDS
GLORFINDEL OF THE ELVES RETRIEVED HIS BODY
TO RETURN TO HIS FAMILY
The writing is in Sindarin, and it reveals how the Lurker 
was encountered here before, centuries ago, and how the 
sacrifice of a valiant Man had ultimately been in vain.
Into the Mountains of Angmar
The journey from the Grey Waste to Carn Dûm is a trek 
almost 200 miles long, made across daunting terrain — 
a leg normally taking more than a month to complete. 
Fortunately, Hwalda takes the companions along paths 
she has seen while travelling in her spirit-wolf form, 
twisting trails that skirt the southern foothills of the 
Mountains of Angmar in a north-westerly direction. 
When the Company finally hits the Frozen Path, they 
must journey across it for another 40 miles north-west 
to reach Carn Dûm.
This leg of the journey takes the Company a total of 24 
days, and also has a Peril Rating of 5. The Company 
will face 1d2+2 Journey Events. The ancient kingdom of 
Angmar, the Grey Waste and the Frozen Path are described 
in more detail in the Rivendell Region Guide, starting from 
page 50 and in A Barren and Pathless Country beginning 
on page 122. Some further customisation notes follow:
Orc-recruiters (A Chance Encounter or In Need of Help): 
The Company is unlikely to encounter anyone of goodly 
intent in these dangerous lands. Instead, they stumble 
upon a scene of Orc-slaughter. An Orc-chieftain and his 
war band are killing a group of Goblins because they 
refused to join them, or maybe just for ‘good sport’. The 
big, ugly chieftain can be heard saying, “Die! You’re just 
useless to the Witch-servant of Angmar!” If the companion 
fails his roll, the Orcs have noticed the approach of the 
Company and attack. They will attempt to capture the 
Player-heroes and bring them as captives to Carn Dûm. 
If the heroes allow this, they will be taken to a prison hall 
deep below the bowels of the ruined citadel and must 
escape before they are delivered to the Witch-servant.
If using the Rivendell Region Guide, replace the Orc-
Chieftain with Burzash, the Orc Warlord described on 
page 51, who travels with an Orc company and a pair of 
Mountain-trolls.
Frozen Past (A Lingering Memory of Times Long Past or 
A Place Touched by the Shadow): While the companions 
are on the Frozen Path, an enormous block of grey ice bars 
their way. Inside the thick, translucent boulder, a faint 
mannish shape can be seen, as if someone was trapped 
under the ice ages ago. A closer inspection seems to 
indicate that something, rather than someone, is encased 
in the frozen matter, as the proportions do not seem right. 
Any companions who fixate on the figure must make a 
Mountains of Angmar
o
E
The Frozen Path 
The Grey Waste 
Carn DumE
>
u
Vales of
Gundabad
o
o
Angmar

--- PAGE 27 ---
27
DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or gain a point of Shadow 
as they make out a long dead, yet horrific thing of Evil 
encased in the ice.
The companions must all work to remove the obstacle. 
The Company must perform a group DC 13 Strength 
(Athletics) check. On a failure each gains a level of 
Exhaustion as the strain and cold weary them.
Continued Nightmares
The Company in its entirety suffers from an uneasy sleep, 
as whenever a hero closes his eyes, he starts hearing 
distant wails coming from the deserted emptiness of the 
Grey Waste. Sometime during the journey, yet another 
nightmare visits a member of the Company. As before, the 
dreamer is the hero with the highest Shadow points score, 
or the one with the lowest Wisdom score (the companion 
must again pass a Corruption check — a DC 20 Wisdom 
saving throw or gain 1 Shadow point).
This time, the details of the dream are left to the 
Loremaster, as the story as played thus far should provide 
enough inspiration for a personalised nightmare. As 
before, the vision may anticipate some of the events that 
will transpire in the accursed citadel.
- Part Five - 
Carn Dûm
If the companions have braved all the dangers placed 
before them, the heroes and their Hill-men followers 
finally reach the great bridge arcing out over the deep 
cleft known as the Red Valley. Cracked boulders and great 
pieces of crushed stone — fragments of walls and towers 
cast down in an ancient catastrophic battle — clutter the 
bottom of the chasm below. A narrow stream of reddish 
waters, rich in iron, can be seen making its way among 
the rubble.
On the other side of the bridge rise the ruined gates of Carn 
Dûm, perched atop a steep cliff of stone, the face of which 
is mottled with carved vents spewing plumes of vapour, 
indicating, to those with experience, the operation of 
furnaces somewhere in the deep of the mountain. Beyond 
the gate, the remains of ancient structures are barely 
distinguishable against the night sky and the jagged peaks 
rising above them like a twisted crown. Depending on 
the Company’s Arrival Roll, they may face the challenge 
ahead with steely resolve or they may already be weary 
from their hard labours to reach this dread place.
The great stone bridge spans the chasm with sinister 
grace, joining the southern cliff with the northern rock 
face. Great stalactites of ice hang down from the structure, 
like the colossal fangs of an invisible monster.
The Steward of Carn Dûm
The Keeper of the Iron Crown of Angmar was once a 
sorcerer of great might and retains much knowledge 
and power in his current wraith-form. The Witch-
king has given him a secret task, one that the heroes 
are unlikely to learn about during the course of this 
adventure. Thus, he does not appear in the following 
outline. However, if the Loremaster wishes to make 
it even harder for the companions to succeed, he may 
be thrown into the fray, as a sorcerous backup for 
Heddwyn, the Witch-servant of Angmar.
Finding a Way In
There are two ways the Company can enter the ancient 
citadel, although it might appear to them the bridge is 
the only way. This, it seems, was the plan of its builders, 
to force all enemies to approach the defenses exclusively 
through the front gates. However, there is another entrance 
at the base of the Red Valley, if they can find it…
• 
The ruins of the citadel of Carn Dûm count as a 
blighted place (see the Player’s Guide, page 181). Each 
companion must make a DC 15 Wisdom saving 
throw or gain 1 point of Shadow. These Corruption 
checks repeat every 12 hours until the heroes leave the 
Enemy’s fortress.
1
Nightmares of Angmar

--- PAGE 28 ---
Eriador Adventures
28
Ruins of Carn Dûm
1. The Frozen Path: This road leads to the great bridge, 
spanning across the Red Valley.
2. Secret Tunnel: This hidden entrance into the mountain 
opens into a tunnel, leading directly to the Vault of 
Heddwyn. See Finding the Secret Tunnel.
3. Rocky Stair: Carved into the southern cliffside, this 
stair was used by Goblins to descend into the Red Valley. 
Climbing down the stair requires a DC 13 Strength 
(Athletics) check. A hero who fails slips and falls 20 feet, 
taking damage accordingly. If he fails with a natural 1 he 
falls down several flights and suffers double damage.
4. Great Bridge: Spanning more than 100 yards, the 
bridge is 50-feet wide. No traces of masonry can be seen, 
as if the bridge had been grown out of the same stone of 
the two facing rock cliffs. See Crossing the Great Bridge.
5. Piles of Rubble: Great heaps of crushed rock, burnt 
wood, and metal are buried in snow across the breadth 
of the citadel. These used to be storehouses, barracks, 
armouries and smithies. Any companion successfully 
making a DC 15 Intelligence (Investigation) check 
may notice that some of the giant blocks have recently 
been rearranged, or pushed aside. A tremendous strength 
is needed to accomplish such a feat (the work of the 
Mountain-troll sleeping nearby, see #7).
6. The Hall of the Witch-king: The main structure 
of the capital, this massive building is today half its 
former height, the walls have been brought down and its 
interior exposed to the weather. Even in its current state, 
the former abode of the Lord of Morgul is an oppressive 
sight, a rotting mausoleum of greenish black stone. Many 
sorcerous inscriptions once decorated the interior of its 
walls, but the enemies of Angmar carefully effaced from 
the smooth surface every accursed letter, and now the 
walls appear pitted as if pockmarked by a virulent disease. 
Companions with one or more Shadow points who enter 
the ruined structure must pass a DC 20 Wisdom saving 
throw or have the colours of what they see slowly bleed 
away, leaving only a heavily blurred version of the world 
in black and white: they have Disadvantage on ability 
checks and attack rolls for a number of hours equal to the 
amount of Shadow points they possess.
7. Mural Chambers: Cut into the walls on the north 
side of the ruins are many recesses of variable depth 
and height. Anyone making a DC 13 Intelligence 
(Investigation) check will find old tools, weapons and 
shirts of Orc chain. However, in one of the larger niches 
sleeps a monstrous Mountain-troll on the threshold of a 
tall iron door. Sneaking past the Troll without awakening 
it, requires a DC 15 Dexterity (Stealth) check. The door is 
locked, but can be picked with a DC 13 Dexterity (Sleight 
of Hand) check. Inside is a hoard worth 80** treasure! 
Fighting the Troll is serious business, especially if the 
companions still suffer from the difficulty of their long 
journey as it is possessed of Great Might (see Rivendell 
Region Guide, page 70).
8. Covered Shafts: Several openings in the western and 
eastern outskirts of the ruins lead to almost vertical shafts. 
These are covered by grates of iron and are concealed 
from sight by a thick cover of snow and ice, but can be 
discovered with a DC 13 Intelligence (Investigation) 
check (a hero with a passive Perception of 13 or higher 
might notice something odd about the snow banks). 
Companions may lift the grates and attempt to climb 
down one of the shafts; the hero must make a DC 13 
Strength (Athletics) check to slow his descent enough to 
grab the ledge of a side tunnel descending to a furnace 
room (leading to #13). If a hero fails his roll, he cannot 
stop his descent, and he falls straight into a chimney filled 
with hot steam and black soot, taking 7 (2d6) fire damage, 
or twice as much on a natural 1. The chimney eventually 
leads to a furnace (#12) and the fallen companion may 
exit the shaft using a iron runged ladder.
9. Guard House: This building conceals the main steps 
spiralling downward into the belly of the fortress. If the 
companions enter here, they first encounter a swirling 
room of grey crows who squawk and fly down the 
stairwell ahead of them. Heroes will recognise these as the 
same type of crows they saw the night the children were 
kidnapped. The stairs end at #10, the sleeping quarters.
10. Sleeping Quarters: If the companions enter this 
area, which contains rooms for the slaves, workers, 
servants, and warriors of the Witch-servant, a series of 
battles begins (see Goblin Frenzy below). The only exits 
from here are west to the prison hall or south to the maze.
5
3
5
5
5

--- PAGE 29 ---
29
Carn Dûm
Nightmares of Angmar

--- PAGE 30 ---
Eriador Adventures
30
11. Prison Hall: This dreadful hall contains dozens of 
barred alcoves on multiple levels. An Orc-Chieftain and 
several Orc Guards (one per hero) watch the prisoners, 
who consist of unruly Goblins, Men and, of course, 
the Hill-men children of the Vales of Gundabad. Cruel 
instruments of torture and murder are placed in the 
centre of the hall. To rescue the children, the Company will 
need to kill the Orcs and take their keys. If they succeed, 
Heddwyn comes, with two Hillman companions and a 
pair of Savage Wolfdogs (see page 9). Passageways from 
here lead back to the sleeping quarters, to the maze or 
to the vault of Heddwyn. If the companions have been 
captured, this is also where they will be imprisoned. They 
must cleverly escape before they may rescue the children. 
12. Furnaces and Forges: In these halls, fires rage, 
fuelled by fierce-burning coals. Dozens of Goblin slaves 
labour in the heat with long rakes, shovels, hammers and 
tongs. They are forging steel blades, chains, and armour, 
tossing them in great piles. The slaves are driven by a cruel 
Hill-man of Rhudaur (see Rivendell Region Guide, pages 
77-78). Companions will need to make a DC 13 Dexterity 
(Stealth) check to sneak past them without notice. These 
rooms lead to the maze.
13. The Maze: This vast section of the underbelly is a 
maze of endless hallways, tunnels and stairs. It is pitch 
black, the air is stagnant, and many segments are caved-
in and littered with the skeletons of Orcs and other 
unidentifiable things. If the companions enter here, they 
need a source of light to see or they will be groping around 
in the darkness, as if Blinded. To escape the maze requires 
a group check. Each hero may make a DC 10 Intelligence 
(Investigation) check or a DC 15 Intelligence (Riddle) 
check. On a failure, they spend hours wandering the 
tunnels and then must make another attempt. On a 
success, they emerge in a random location:
	
1d12	
Location
	
1	
The Sleeping Quarters (#10)
	
2-7	
The Furnaces and Forgers (#12)
	
8-11	
The Prison Hall (#11)
	
12	
The Vault of Heddwyn (#14)
14. Vault of Heddwyn: The entrance to this vault is 
located in a recessed archway that will be spotted by 
anyone entering the fortress through the secret tunnel, 
or heading east from the prison or the maze. It is usually 
guarded by two Savage Wolfdogs (see page 9). The 
reinforced wooden door is normally barred from the 
inside, but can be forced open with a DC 25 Strength 
(Athletics) check. Otherwise, it can be chopped through 
with an axe: it has an AC of 15 and 26 (4d8+8) hit points.
Within are the personal quarters of Heddwyn – the 
Witchservant of Angmar! He normally sleeps here, along 
with a couple other Hill-men companions, sprawled on his 
back on a lush fur rug, so that he can roam the fortress and 
the mountains in Spirit-Warg form, gathering followers. 
As long as he keeps his body locked in this room, he will be 
safe, he thinks. Stored here are valuables equal to a 30*** 
Hoard, most likely containing at least one Cursed Item.
Navigating the Ruins
For groups that are having a difficult time finding 
their way around the fortress, the Loremaster may 
allow ability checks in exchange for clues. For example, 
when exploring the surface of the ruins, a successful 
DC 13 Intelligence (Investigation) check may lead the 
Player-heroes to the guard house where they find the 
spiral stairs down. Or, after they rescue the children, 
a successful DC 13 Wisdom (Insight) check helps them 
ascertain that taking the hallway east is the best 
route (leading to the Vault of Heddwyn), rather than 
returning to the sleeping quarters or heading north 
(into the dark maze).
Finding the Secret Tunnel
Companions who descend to the bottom of the Red 
Valley can easily traverse the weak stream running along 
the dale. Companions making a DC 25 Intelligence 
(Investigation) check may locate a passage concealed by 
a moveable stone against the north wall. The Company 
may instead spread out and search, then they must 
perform a DC 15 group check instead. However, if they 
fail this check each companion gains a level of Exhaustion 
as the night passes into dawn.
5
3
5

--- PAGE 31 ---
31
Either way, the drawback to the search is that if anyone 
fails with a natural 1, they will alert a pack of Savage 
Wolfdogs (two for each hero), who come racing through 
the tunnel when the stone blocking the passage is moved 
aside. The Hill-men companions will be surprised to see 
the dogs and guess that they were stolen as pups.
If the Company wins the fight, they can head west in the 
tunnel, eventually coming to a three-way intersection. To 
the left is the vault of Heddwyn; to the right is the maze; 
and continuing west, the echo of crying children is heard.
Crossing the Great Bridge
The Witch-king’s former abode looks impressive when 
seen across the great bridge, even in its current ruinous 
state. The main iron gate lays twisted and broken, its pieces 
entwined with the splintered stones of a once magnificent 
arch. Beyond the gate, what appears to be a central keep 
remains more intact than the other structures, but even 
here wide gaps open in its dark walls.
The main stronghold of Angmar stands in great ruin, but 
watching the red steam rise from the vents in the cliff 
face leaves no doubt among the companions that the 
heart of the fortress is beating still. If a hero recalls the 
first nightmare, he might be wary of the danger that lies 
ahead, lowering the DC for the upcoming saving throw 
by -2.
• 
When the companions set foot upon the bridge, “a 
dark shape, like a cloud and yet not a cloud” seems 
to detach from the top of one of the mountain peaks 
above. Partly obscured by the cruel weather, the 
shape grows larger, as a piercing cry strikes terror in 
the hearts of the companions: everyone must make a 
DC 20 Wisdom saving throw. Those who fail fall to 
the ground shaking, and are Frightened of Carn Dûm 
until they take a short rest. Then, the shadow passes: 
as it appeared, the black shape disappears into the 
clouded sky.
• 
Seconds later, an ill gust of foul air sweeps through the 
Red Valley below. The heroes feel the bridge under their 
feet sway, as if the wind multiplied their weight! Great 
frozen icicles detach from the bridge, carrying with 
them large chunks of the stonework. All companions 
must make a DC 10 Strength (Athletics) check to 
dash across the remaining length of the bridge. Heroes 
Frightened of the fortress must spend Inspiration in 
order to run towards Carn Dûm and not away. If three 
or more companions fail their roll, a large section of 
the bridge collapses behind them, sending pieces of 
rock hurtling down into the bottom of the cleft. The 
way back has just become more complicated…
Goblin Frenzy!
If the Company enters the sleeping quarters (# 10) from 
the stairs, they immediately trigger the attention of the 
Goblins of Carn Dûm. From this point on, no matter 
where they hide, Goblins will always be lurking around 
the corner. They have been breeding lately, and their 
numbers are too great to count!
• 
Starting now, whenever a natural 1 is rolled on an 
ability check or saving throw, 1d4 more Goblins of 
Carn Dûm arrive at the end of the round to attack 
the Company. This is in addition to other enemies, 
and regardless of their location, as long as they are 
underground.
5
Nightmares of Angmar

--- PAGE 32 ---
Eriador Adventures
32
The companions will need to win the following two battles 
as they explore in order to progress to the Witch-servant’s 
prison halls where the children are being held captive.
1. Battle of the Crow’s Den
Grey crows fly into a room squawking, “Wake up! Wake 
up!” A few moments later, armed warriors emerge. 
Run the fight using one Hill-men of Rhudaur for every 
companion (see Rivendell Region Guide, pages 77-78). 
Once this battle is finished, they must decide whether to 
proceed further west into the sleeping chambers to battle 
on (see The Goblin Pit below), escape south into a more 
obscure passage (see The Maze above), or go back up the 
stairs into the guard house.
2. The Goblin Pit
Brave adventurers coming this direction will wonder if 
they made the right decision! Before they know it, Goblins 
of Carn Dûm seem to be crawling over wall and ceiling, 
swarming over them like ants on a piece of dropped fruit. 
The creatures engage the companions three each. When 
one dies, another takes its place at the start of the next 
round (see Rivendell Region Guide, page 77, or else use 
the profile for Goblin Archers found on page 104 of the 
Loremaster’s Guide).
Whenever a hero or Goblin rolls a natural 20, make a 
note of it. When the number rolled equals the number of 
companions, the Goblins are suddenly called away and 
disappear out of sight. If the companions take the stairs 
south from here, they soon hear the cries of the children 
in the prison hall…
 
- Part Six - 
An Unexpected Foe
The encounter with Heddwyn can happen in one of two 
ways: by finding him in his vault after accessing the secret 
tunnel, or by encountering him immediately upon rescuing 
the children. Either way, he is likely to be accompanied 
by two Hill-men warriors of Gundabad and a couple of 
Savage Wolfdogs. If the Company finds him in his vault, 
they will encounter his body directly; but if he shows up 
after the rescue, he may manifest either physically or in 
Spirit-Warg form (his Hill-men bodyguards appear in the 
same guise as their master).
If encountered in spirit form, Essylt does not recognise her 
father or the others, for the corruption of their souls have 
twisted their countenance and form. She will, however, 
be alarmed seeing that there are Spirit-Wargs here in 
Carn Dûm. Were more than children kidnapped from the 
Vales of Gundabad? The Spirit-Wargs will fight the Player-
heroes, but they will disappear or retreat back to the vault 
of Heddwyn if they are seriously injured.
Once the Company encounters Heddwyn in the flesh, 
Essylt and Fráech will immediately recognise the tall 
Hill-man warrior. Essylt is devastated and gasps at the 
revelation: first that he is alive, and second that he is 
alive in Carn Dûm. Everything has been leading to this 
moment, when he will make his appeal for her to join him. 
The resonance of his voice fills the room.
“Essylt, my love! It has been long since I last laid eyes on 
you. I have been calling to you and you have come. Great 
things lie ahead for us and our people. Nevermore shall 
we hide in the Black Hills. Look about you! This fortress 
is our new home. Soon, a king will return, powerful and 
generous to his servitors. Why ally yourself with these 
beggars and liars? Join me and you will live as a Queen 
in Angmar!”
Then, Heddwyn utters words of power in an unknown 
tongue, while raising up his right hand and facing the 
companions. All Player-heroes must make a DC 15 
Wisdom saving throw, or fall victim to Heddwyn’s Red 
Madness spell (see opposite page).
Key Moment: Test of Will
If all the companions are able to resist Heddwyn’s 
spell, Essylt will admire them for their strong spirit 
and be influenced positively. If any of them fail and 
display their weaknesses, she will be frightened and 
influenced negatively.
Essylt’s Reply
The fate of Essylt, Fráech, and the Hill-men children is now 
decided. One of the companions might attempt a final 
plea for Essylt to join them against her father. An attempt 
3

--- PAGE 33 ---
33
at Persuasion (to convince her of her father’s evil plans) 
or Riddle (to allow her to think clearly, regardless of 
her people’s expectations) are most appropriate. The DC 
starts at 20, but is modified up or down depending on how 
many times Essylt was positively or negatively influenced. 
Lower the DC by 2 each time she was positively influenced 
and raise it by 2 each time she was negatively influenced.
For example, if the Player-heroes influenced her positively 
3 times and negatively 2 times, the DC will be modified 
down to DC 18.
If the companion fails the check, Essylt concedes her 
will and subjects herself to her father. If successful, she 
chooses to be free, and sides with the companions.
Fighting Heddwyn
Essylt and Fráech will not fight Heddwyn directly if Essylt 
sides with the companions, but they will join the battle 
against them if she joins her father. Use the statistics 
for Hillmen Warriors and Spirit-Wargs (see Rhovanion 
Region Guide, pages 126-127). Heddwyn will fight the 
companions to the death, using all of his powers to stop 
them. If the companions win, they need to escape the 
fortress with the children.
Heddwyn, the Witch-servant of Angmar
Heddwyn is wholly under the domination of the Witch-
king and he will even kill Essylt if she stands in his way. 
He is clad in ancient armour and has been turned by the 
Witch-king into a powerful adversary by sorcerous means 
(as his special abilities will testify).
If encountered in Spirit-Warg form, the wolf disappears 
as soon as its slain. Heddwyn the man wakes up, having 
taken on the damage of the Spirit-Warg, but he knows the 
exact location of the heroes and will soon be upon them. 
He can also dismiss the Spirit-Warg form as an action.
The Witch-servant of Angmar 
as a Man
Medium Human (Evil Men)
STR 
15 (+2)
DEX 
10 (+0)
CON 
16 (+3)
INT 
10 (+0)
WIS 
14 (+2)
CHA 
17 (+3)
Armour Class 16 (Ancient Armour of Angmar)
Hit Points 90 (12d8+36)
Speed 30 ft 
Skills Intimidation +6, Perception +5
Senses passive Perception 15
Languages Orcish, Westron
Challenge 5 (1,800 XP)
Strike Fear (Recharge 5-6). As an action, Heddwyn 
may cause his eyes to flicker red with rage and he howls 
bestially to chill the hearts of his enemies. Each opponent 
within 30 ft of the warrior must make a DC 15 Wisdom 
saving throw or become Frightened until the end of 
Heddwyn’s next turn.
Wicked Cunning (1/day). Heddwyn can use his bonus 
action to activate this ability. For the remainder of the 
combat, he adds +2 to his Armour Class.
Actions
Spear. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 
5 ft or range 20/60 ft, one target. Hit: 5 (1d6+2) piercing 
damage or 6 (1d8+2) piercing damage if used with two 
hands to make a melee attack.
Short Sword. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 5 (1d6+2) piercing damage.
Frost and Thaw. Ranged Spell Attack: +5 to hit, range 
60 ft, one target. Hit: The target must make a DC 15 
Dexterity saving throw. On a failure, it takes 9 (2d6+2) 
cold damage and its speed is reduced by half until the end 
of Heddwyn’s next turn. On a success it takes half damage 
and its speed is unaffected.
Red Madness (Recharge 5-6). Each enemy within 60 feet 
of Heddwyn must make a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw. 
On a failure, the victim becomes Frightened of Heddwyn 
and trapped in a red haze of rage.  Victims who roll a 
natural 1 on any attack roll turn on their companions and 
will strike at them on their next turn. Each victim may, at 
the end of their turn, attempt another Wisdom saving 
throw, ending the effect on a success.
Nightmares of Angmar

--- PAGE 34 ---
Eriador Adventures
34
Heddwyn as a Spirit-Warg
Medium Apparition
STR 
16 (+3)
DEX 
19 (+4)
CON 
16 (+3)
INT 
10 (+0)
WIS 
14 (+2)
CHA 
17 (+3)
Armour Class 18 (Deadly Elusiveness)
Hit Points 45 (6d8+18)
Speed 30 ft 
Damage Resistances bludgeoning, piercing and 
slashing from non-magical attacks
Skills Athletics +4, Intimidation +5, Perception +4
Senses passive Perception 14
Challenge 3 (700 XP)
Deadly Elusiveness. Heddwyn’s Spirit-Warg form has 
an Armour Class equal to 10 plus twice his Dexterity 
modifier.
Great Leap. The Spirit-Warg is capable of jumping vast 
distances. It may make a special Dash action to go twice 
its normal movement in a single jump. Any opponents 
in melee combat with the Spirit-Warg when it uses Great 
Leap get opportunity attacks as normal.
Pack Tactics. The Spirit-Warg has Advantage on an attack 
roll against a creature if at least one of its allies is within 5 
feet of the creature and that ally isn’t Incapacitated.
Actions
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 6 (1d6+3) piercing damage.
- Epilogue - 
To Rivendell
Out of the fortress, the companions will most likely find 
themselves in the Red Valley, where they breathe in the 
crisp, cold air. If Essylt, Fráech and the children are with 
them, they intend to go back to the Vales of Gundabad 
and persuade their kin to make allies with the Free Folk of 
the North and to drive the Goblins and Wild Wolves from 
the Black Hills.
If the Company found any treasure, Hwalda (or their other 
guide) reminds them of their contract. “It was a pleasure 
doing business… friends, but we must part ways. If we 
shall journey together again, you’ll find me among my 
kin. Even if it will take a while for me to recover my will to 
wander the land!”
The companions should say their goodbyes and make 
ready to leave…
A Fateful Meeting
If the companions have fought the Lurker in the Long 
Valley and have found the Elf-stone hidden among its 
treasure hoard, a tall cloaked figure emerges suddenly 
from the rocky stair. The stranger removes his hood, 
revealing golden hair and fair features. He is one of the 
Elven-folk! 
“Well met, wanderers. I have come from the house of 
Elrond over many dangerous leagues looking for you, 
even though I didn’t know you before this day. A sad 
remembrance was stirred in my heart, and I left my home 
to find out the answer to this riddle.”
The Elf is Glorfindel, and the memory he is talking about 
is the death of Belegorn, the Man of Gondor who almost 
one thousand years ago died fighting against the thing in 
the Long Valley…
“But you seem tired, and careworn. Come now, drink 
this! It will give you strength and vigour.” Glorfindel offers 
each companion a sip of his leather flask: it is miruvor, 
the cordial of Imladris, and each draught from it removes 
1d4 levels of Exhaustion and returns 1 Hit Die (see 
Loremaster’s Guide, page 139).
Glorfindel asks the companions to tell him their story. 
When the Elf-lord realises that there is a lot to say, he will 
add:
“Follow me to the house of Elrond. I am sure the master of 
Imladris will be interested in your tales, and it seems that 
we are joined in our cause against the oncoming darkness. 
In Rivendell you will find rest, and many answers.”

--- PAGE 35 ---
35
Journey to the Last Homely House
Glorfindel guides the Company to the Last Homely House, 
opening the way, leading his horse Asfaloth on foot. The 
journey is a trek of approximately 400 miles south through 
Angmar, the Lone-lands and finally along the great East 
Road to Rivendell, taking almost two months in all.
Such a long voyage can be resolved by splitting the journey 
into three legs: the first leg, south through Angmar and 
the Grey Waste takes 30 days on foot, requiring 1d2+1 
Journey Events; the second leg through the empty, Lone-
lands takes 21 days and prompts 1d2+1 Journey Events; 
the last leg lasts 3 days along the Great East Road, with a 
single Journey Event during the leg. 
The Peril Rating for each leg is 2, a benefit of the presence 
of Glorfindel in the Company.
Once in Rivendell, the companions are welcomed by 
Elrond Halfelven. For the moment, the Company has 
slowed the progress of Angmar, and for that they are 
welcome to spend the Fellowship phase in the Last Homely 
House, before venturing off into the world once more.
Aftermath
If the heroes do not meet Glorfindel, they may be tempted 
to escort Essylt and Fráech back home. Such a journey is 
not without peril, after all. Or they may wish to explore 
these lands west of the Misty Mountains. Indeed, for some 
of the Company these lands may be home, and they may 
wish to visit before adventure once again calls them to 
step into dangerous and forlorn lands.
As for the Witch-king, his gambit with the Hill-men has 
failed. He will have to seek more reliable servants if he is 
once again to place the North into the grip of fear… 
5
5
Nightmares of Angmar

--- PAGE 36 ---
Eriador Adventures
36
- Harder - 
than Stone 
For heroes of level 6 or 7
• 
When: This quest could be set in the very late spring 
of any year between 2954 and 2977.
• 
Where: The adventure begins along the great East 
Road, returns to Rivendell, then heads into the north, 
through the Trollshaws and the Coldfells, eventually 
ending in the Ettenmoors. 
• 
What: A Dwarven caravan was ransacked by a group 
of Human Bandits working with Trolls led by an “Ogre 
Captain”. The Company is asked to discover more 
about this unusual arrangement and who or what the 
“captain” actually is.
• 
Why: Elrond of Rivendell asks the Company to do it, 
offering his gratitude.
• 
Who: The object of the quest is Captain Mormog, a 
favoured agent of Sauron who has been sent into the 
West to foment trouble and stir up the Trolls. Another 
mysterious figure lurks in the dark, and might help 
the Company to shed some light on the Captain’s 
identity.
• 
Themes: Captain Mormog’s army is a foe beyond 
any of the Company, but there are few left in the 
North to stand against such evil. And, once again, 
the companions might befriend the most unlikely of 
creatures, a show of pity that may rule the fate of 
many. 
Adventuring Phase
This adventure is divided into six parts, which begin and 
end along the mighty river Hoarwell.
Part One – Road Maintenance
The Company rescues the last few survivors of a waylaid 
Dwarven caravan from a pack of vicious bandits, who 
consisted of both Men and Trolls, before escorting them 
to Rivendell.
Part Two – At the House of Elrond
The Company is tasked by Elrond into discovering more 
about the highly suspect “Ogre Captain” who was leading 
the bandits.
Part Three – Picking up the Trail
The companions head into the wild after the “Ogre 
Captain” through the dangerous Trollshaws and on into 
the barren Coldfells.
Part Four – Deep Plans
The Company explore the ruins of an ancient keep, 
discovering that the riddle they are trying to solve is more 
complicated than it seems.
Part Five – Bargains in the Night
The heroes are approached by an Agent of Sauron who 
wishes to make a most unusual bargain with them in 
exchange for help against Mormog.
Part Six – Into the Ettendales
The Company travels east into the region known as the 
Ettendales. In a remote valley, the companions learn of 
Captain Mormog’s plans for Eriador.
Epilogue – The Black Voice
The companions return to Rivendell with what they’ve 
learned about Captain Mormog and what he intends for 
the North.
The Eye of Mordor
If you are using the optional Eye of Mordor rules 
presented in the Rivendell Region Guide, any 
revelation episodes occurring during this adventure 
are likely to revolve around the servants of Captain 
Mormog discovering the Company, or minions that 
they encounter proving to be far deadlier than expected. 
Also, the Dead do not lie still in their graves… the 
heroes might encounter Bog Soldiers or Fell Wraiths 
in the wilderness. Be careful about alerting Mormog 
of their presence too soon, however, as he is a deadly 
foe; similarly, Feredrûn should not be turned from ally 
to enemy, as this will affect the course of the adventure 
too much.

--- PAGE 37 ---
37
- Part One - 
Road Maintenance
Deep, fast, and aching cold are the waters of mighty 
Mitheithel as it flows down from the Misty Mountains in 
the late spring. Called Hoarwell by the Men of Eriador, 
the river runs in a great curve from its headwaters above 
the Ettenmoors, along the western edge of both the 
Coldfells and the Trollshaws, before eventually joining 
with the River Bruinen and flowing away south. The only 
safe crossing of the Hoarwell is the Last Bridge, an ancient 
stone structure consisting of three arches spanning the 
river at the bottom of a deep gorge which rests along the 
south-western edge of the Trollshaws. 
The Last Bridge lies along the great East Road built by 
the Dwarves in ages past, though none are left that can 
remember whether they built the bridge too, or whether it 
was the work of the Men of the West, who certainly had a 
hand in expanding it.
Regardless of its provenance, the Last Bridge and the 
road it sits upon are essential for those travelling east or 
west, and the Master of Imladris makes it his business to 
maintain them such as they are, within a week’s journey 
of his home. Unfortunately, the floods brought by this 
year’s thawing may have damaged portions of the road 
and possibly even the Last Bridge itself.
The adventure begins with the Company on an errand for 
the Folk of Rivendell, so they are supposed to have gained 
entrance to the Last Homely House. They have been sent 
to accompany an Elvish stone-mason named Gondril as 
she travels along the great East Road to the Last Bridge to 
assess how well it weathered the winter. 
If this adventure follows the events of Nightmares of 
Angmar, the Company might accept the task as a token of 
good-will towards the Master of the House. 
Instead, if one or more of the Company are Hobbits of the 
Shire, Bree-folk, Dúnedain or travelling Dwarves, perhaps 
they’ve agreed to meet their friends in late Spring near the 
Last Bridge as they journey West (or East) and stumble 
upon Gondril inspecting the bridge.
Gondril
Medium Elf
STR 
15 (+2)
DEX 
10 (+0)
CON 
12 (+1)
INT 
17 (+3)
WIS 
10 (+0)
CHA 
14 (+2)
Armour Class 12 (leather corslet)
Hit Points 16 (3d8+3)
Speed 30 ft 
Skills History +5, Investigation +5, Lore +5
Senses passive Perception 10
Languages Quenya, Sindarin, Westron
Challenge 1/2 (100 XP)
Subtlety of Craft. Gondril is proficient with mason’s 
tools and has a set with her at all times.
Actions
Long Sword. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 6 (1d8+2) slashing damage or 7 (1d10+2) 
slashing damage if wielded with both hands. 
The Shattered Caravan
If the Player-heroes began in Imladris, they reach the Last 
Bridge after three days of travel (no rolls are required, as 
the trip is a very short one). The Hoarwell is roaring, strong 
and fierce, but the Last Bridge looks untouched by the 
winter and appears to be holding up fine. Characters with 
the Stone-craft trait can tell at a glance that the bridge was 
made to endure for ages and remains faultless. Gondril 
declares as much after spending some time making certain.
While the characters are inspecting the bridge, any 
companions with a passive Perception of 13 or higher (or 
a Lookout making an active DC 13 Perception check) 
notices that a wooden object, and not just driftwood, is 
wedged under one of the arches of the bridge. It is half 
submerged by the running waters, so it is not possible to 
determine exactly what it is without getting closer.
To safely retrieve the object from the river requires a DC 
15 Strength (Athletics) check. While the river is cold 
and swift, there are many points along the bridge where 
a character can securely fasten himself before they go 
“fishing”. Any character with the Swimming trait can 
invoke it as normal. If a companion fails his Athletics 
check, he gains a level of Exhaustion as the chilly water 
saps his limbs of strength.
7
Harder than Stone

--- PAGE 38 ---
Eriador Adventures
38
The object proves to be several wooden planks connected 
by a crossbar. One side of the planks are painted a bright 
green.
Any character with an applicable trait such as Boating 
or Woodwright can tell that the object hasn’t been in the 
water very long. The Woodwright trait also reveals the 
handiwork of the smooth joining of the planks to be of 
Dwarven origin, likely from a wagon of some sort. A DC 
13 Intelligence (Investigation or Riddle) can reveal even 
more: on a success, the hero notes that the edges of the 
wood have been roughly hacked, chopped apart with either 
an axe or a sword; a great success or better notes notches in 
the wood that indicate where arrows were retrieved.
If none of the Company think about it, Gondril suggests 
they should look about upriver, to the north of the road. 
If they do so, they easily find the remains of a campsite 
some forty paces or so back from the road, where a battle 
of some sort clearly occurred.
Anyone 
succeeding 
in 
a 
DC 
13 
Intelligence 
(Investigation) or Wisdom (Survival) check finds 
evidence that someone attempted to hide two different 
sets of wagon tracks that were clearly located beside the 
camp, along with with those of several mules. There are 
bloodstains on the rocks and some of the bushes around 
the campsite. If the hero succeeds by 5 or more, she finds 
and identifies separate tracks belonging to Men, Dwarves, 
and one or more Trolls.
It is hard to determine exactly what happened here, as 
someone clearly went out of their way to obscure their 
actions. A successful DC 13 Intelligence (Lore) check 
indicates that Trolls are not usually clever enough to conceal 
their activities (someone with the Troll-Lore trait knows this 
automatically). What can be gleaned with appropriate DC 
15 checks (Riddle, Survival, Investigation) is that the 
victors headed northwards, deeper into the dense woods 
of the Trollshaws, carrying heavy burdens, and that at least 
one among them is a Troll.
When the time to decide what to do arrives, Gondril 
will listen to what the companions have to say first, but 
she will then insist that they follow and see if there are 
survivors that the Company can help, or, if not, be able to 
report what happened.
If the Company fails to find anything of interest, or if they 
choose to ignore what they’ve seen, they get ambushed by 
the bandits led by Amos the Stone-troll (see page 41) as 
they are sleeping one night on the way back to Rivendell. 
The Look-Out should get a chance to spot them 
beforehand as normal (they aren’t the stealthiest bunch), 
but then the fight is on. From there, the companions may 
have more reasons to follow the trail of any survivors 
and find the Dwarves.
What Really Happened Here?
Two nights ago, a band of outlaws and a pack of Trolls 
led by Mormog, the "Ogre" Captain, plundered a 
Dwarven caravan that was heading east. After killing 
the majority of the Dwarves, the bandits took the bulk 
of their stolen supplies back to their camp, along with 
a few prisoners destined for the Trolls’ "larder". They 
got rid or concealed any material they didn’t want to 
keep, and threw the bodies of the slain into the river.
Finally, they chopped up the two wagons, as they could 
not use them in the broken terrain of the Trollshaws: 
they kept some of the pieces for firewood, and tossed 
the remains into the river.
When they attacked the Dwarves they were led by 
Mormog, their Captain, but the mysterious monster 
left the camp the morning after the attack on the 
caravan.
Into the Trollshaws
The bandits only concealed their tracks as far as a long 
bowshot from the road; beyond that the track is obvious. 
Adventurers who are worth their salt should not find it too 
hard to follow their trail:
• 
The companions need only accumulate a total of 3 
successful DC 13 Wisdom (Survival) checks (or the 
application of some relevant ability, such as Rumor 
of the Earth, for example). Once they hit the trail, 
it takes them just over an hour to get to the bandits’ 
camp. 
5

--- PAGE 39 ---
39
The encampment is located not far from the river, 
between two large hillocks in a particularly dense copse 
of tall beeches and willows. This is no accident – the deep 
shade enables Trolls to safely rest without having to hide 
underground during the day. If the companions reach the 
camp trying to be discreet (they propose Stealth checks, 
which will be DC 10 to start) they will be able to ambush 
the bandits at their leisure. Failing to consider this means 
each side is aware of the other before battle is joined.
The Bandit Camp
The bandits consist of “Sergeant Cyrnan”, a rugged Outlaw 
Chief accompanied by hardened-looking Men (add two 
Ruthless Bandits for every character in the Company) and 
Amos, a Stone-troll. Men and Trolls do not normally work 
side by side, everybody knows that, yet these clearly are. 
The camp is a simple affair with a one small fire pit in the 
centre of a clearing before the hillocks and a particularly 
large one off to the side. Several tents and lean-tos are 
scattered about. One of the hillocks has a strangely shaped 
massive wooden door on its side, which looks like it was 
built using parts from the hull of a boat.
Three large sacks lie against the other hillock. Keen-eyed 
companions and those succeeding in a DC 13 Wisdom 
(Perception) check note that one of the Dwarf-sized sacks 
occasionally squirms…
If the characters didn’t alert the bandits to their presence, 
Cyrnan and several others are sitting about the smaller 
fire pit, talking. After a time, a Troll with a belly of 
prodigious girth emerges through the boat-door and walks 
around the edge of the hillock to a large keg situated in the 
shadow of the trees. Once there, he fills up a small barrel 
that has clearly been converted into a flagon, before 
joining the Men. The Troll is protected by the rays of the 
Sun by the shadow of the hills and the dense trees, but still 
walks about with a measure  of circumspection, squinting 
fiercely. Companions do not need to make a roll to guess 
that this behaviour is indicative of a Stone-troll.
The companions must decide what to do. They might 
exploit the vegetation to get close enough to the camp 
and hear the bandits’ conversation without being noticed. 
If they wait too long, the Troll eventually makes a wide-
grinned comment to one of the younger bandits, who 
visibly pales slightly, before he heads back into the hillock, 
laughing with a deep, booming voice. The other bandits 
finish their meal soon after and move off to do chores about 
the camp. At this point, the chances of the companions to 
remain unnoticed decrease sharply (each companion must 
make a DC 15 Stealth check to remain hidden).
If the characters moved closer to hear the bandits and the 
Troll, they are talking about their recent raid and their 
“new orders”. After a while, the younger bandit lowers his 
7
Harder than Stone

--- PAGE 40 ---
Eriador Adventures
40
voice and asks his fellows, “What happens when Amos 
gets hungry and his larder’s out?” The Troll overhears 
this and replies in semi-broken Westron, “Don’t fret, little 
Man, the Cap’n have my bones fer his stew if I put any of 
yer on the spit. Sides, I like yer. I’d just et yer leg at most,” 
followed by his rough laughter.
Choices and Challenges
If the companions remained hidden, they have several 
choices available to them. A particularly stealthy 
character could try to slip into the camp and save the 
prisoners, though if they try this before an attack, this 
runs the risk of the frightened Dwarves crying out and 
robbing the Company of the advantage of surprise. If they 
wish to attempt a rescue in advance, read the section on 
the survivors below, to gauge how the Dwarves may react.
If the heroes have figured out that Amos is a Stone-troll, 
then they have a distinct advantage over him in a fight, 
as they might use the light of the Sun to concentrate on 
dealing with the bandits and worry about the Stone-troll 
afterwards.
The characters can certainly ambush the camp with a 
clear conscience. These Men have robbed and murdered 
travellers on the road, as well as plainly standing by while 
their Troll compatriot is pondering on how to consume 
his Dwarves; they are unmistakably ruthless villains. 
Should they attempt to parley with them, any discussion 
and any Persuasion checks are wasted on them, but a 
DC 20 Charisma (Intimidation) check could send 
some of them packing… or encourage them to shoot the 
presumptive braggart on a failure!
Gondril is not much of a fighter, but she will still want to 
help however she can. Depending on how the characters 
direct her, she could be either an asset or a liability. She 
will not “just stay back” once the fighting starts…
If combat erupts, the Bandits will try to let loose with 
arrows before wading into melee (unless Surprised). 
Cyrnan directs his Men to ruthlessly finish off any 
adventurer who falls down (see their No Quarter special 
ability). At some point during the battle, if half or more of 
the bandits are defeated, the youngest-looking one (the one 
who spoke to Amos) tries to surrender; Cyrnan promptly 
cuts him down from behind. Soon after, the rest will lose 
their stomach for the fight and flee into the Trollshaws, 
trying to escape pursuit.
If the adventurers manage to take one of the bandits alive, 
they will find that they are one and all, vicious outlaws 
and unwilling to say much about their business.
Ruthless Bandit
Medium Human
STR 
10 (+0)
DEX 
15 (+2)
CON 
11 (+0)
INT 
10 (+0)
WIS 
11 (+0)
CHA 
8 (-1)
Armour Class 14 (Leather Corslet)
Hit Points 18 (4d8)
Speed 30 ft 
Skills Perception +2
Senses passive Perception 12
Languages Westron
Challenge 1/4 (50 XP)
Coward. When injured, the Bandit suffers Disadvantage 
on all combat rolls.
No Quarter. When the Bandit reduces an enemy to 0 hit 
points that enemy is considered to already have failed one 
death save. 
Actions
Short Bow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, range 
80/320 ft, one target. Hit: 5 (1d6+2) piercing damage.
Short Sword. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 6 (1d8+2) piercing damage.
Dealing with Amos
While he isn’t the “sharpest sword in the armoury”, 
Amos is wary of being tricked into coming out into direct 
sunlight and will try to make his stand inside the cavern. 
The entrance is barely ten feet wide and a passage runs 
for thirty feet before a larger chamber can be reached. The 
room certainly counts as underground if any Dwarves 
have the Durin’s Way virtue.
The characters’ options here are only limited to their 
cunning: they could try to set a fire and smoke Amos out 
of his cave, they could cut down parts of the covering 
that is keeping the camp in the shade. They might even 
try to talk to him. A successful DC 20 Persuasion check 
could get Amos to bargain for his life, though he will 
not deal with Dwarves in any way, shape or form (other 
5
5

--- PAGE 41 ---
41
than violently). True-hearted or Trusty companions might 
invoke their trait for a benefit. If they choose to negotiate, 
Amos will only believe the characters if they swear a 
sacred oath on their honour to let him go. Breaking such 
an oath is a misdeed worth 2 Shadow points.
Should Amos broker a deal with the characters, the 
companions will face the wrath of the rescued Dwarven 
prisoners. They will absolutely insist that the Stone-troll 
be slain, to avenge their fallen brethren. The Dwarves will 
be both incredulous and furious if any character let the 
Stone-troll go, but their obligation to their rescuers will 
cause them to keep their peace after a while (though they 
will neither forgive nor forget the insult).
If Amos somehow manages to survive, he will flee north 
as soon as the light allows him to do so, to report to 
“his Cap’n”. If anything Amos witnessed or overheard 
about the characters that can be used against them in a 
confrontation with Mormog, it will be.
Amos, Lesser Stone-Troll
Large Giant (troll-kind)
STR 
16 (+3)
DEX 
10 (+0)
CON 
15 (+2)
INT 
8 (-1)
WIS 
7 (-2)
CHA 
6 (-2)
Armour Class 15 (natural armour)
Hit Points 67 (9d10+18)
Speed 30 ft 
Saving Throws Dexterity +2
Senses darkvision 60 ft, passive Perception 8
Languages Westron, Orcish
Challenge 3 (700 XP)
Sunlight Curse. Stone-trolls become Petrified and turn 
into stone if they are touched by the bright light of the 
sun. In direct sunlight, a Stone-troll must make a DC 10 
Dexterity saving throw at the beginning of its turn in 
order to find enough cover to avoid being turned to stone. 
On a failure, the Stone-troll becomes Petrified.
Actions
Spiked Troll-club. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 
5 ft, one target. Hit: 14 (2d10+3) piercing damage. 
The Troll cave has a larder the heroes won’t want to look 
too closely in. In a side alcove sits a number of large clay 
pots holding a mishmash of gold and silver coins, along 
with a few bright gems and a series of Dwarven rune-
stamped gold ingots. The whole Hoard is worth  50*, 
but at least 40g worth of the treasure was stolen from 
the Dwarven prisoners. A successful DC 15 Intelligence 
(Investigation or Riddle) check notes that there are 
clearly a number of clay pots missing; smooth round 
spaces on the dirt floor where pots were sitting till just 
recently.
The Survivors
Anar, Vidar and Ginar are the only survivors of the 
Dwarven caravan. They were travelling east from the 
Blue Mountains to Erebor. Anar and Vidar are brothers, 
whereas Ginar is the child of Vidar. There is no need to 
conduct a formal Audience — the characters just saved 
three Dwarves from a Stone-troll’s gullet and the Dwarves 
in question are far beyond pleased to make the company’s 
acquaintance. All three bow low, introducing themselves 
by name and adding the Dwarven greeting-honorific: 
“(Name) at your service!”
All three Dwarves are ill-used, battered and weary; a 
shadow of fear is still clearly on them, their eyes haunted. 
All three are in rough tunics, their mail having been 
stripped away. Anar and Vidar are unmistakably brothers, 
so similar are they in appearance. Both of their once-fine 
beards are now dirty and roughed-up, Vidar’s especially: 
the bandits tore some of his gold beard-braids out forcibly. 
Ginar sports a much shorter russet beard – the younger
Dwarf is actually a female, Vidar’s daughter! 
This is no secret for any Dwarf in the Company, of course, 
the differences are for them plain to see, but it is impossible 
for anyone else to notice it. This piece of information 
should be provided secretly to any Dwarf hero, along 
with the fact that traditionally Dwarves never share such 
secrets with anyone not belonging to their folk.
The caravan was attacked at night as they camped along 
the great East Road. They were ambushed by bandits, 
several Stone-trolls, and something else: they claim that 
the attack was led by a horrifying figure – a massive 
Ogre right out of old legends. Anar states: ”Their leader, 
I’ve never seen anything like him. Big. Fast. Nothing so 
massive has the right to move so quickly, like one of the 
great mountain bears. He bore a wicked notched sword. It 
was huge. He cut poor Narvi in half with a single stroke. 
6
Harder than Stone

--- PAGE 42 ---
Eriador Adventures
42
One of the bandits called him, ‘Captain’. I’ve never seen 
anything like him.”
Vidar adds on to his brother’s words. “He was like to an 
Ogre, from the old tales.” His voice drops to a hoarse 
whisper that still manages to carry far. “And he spoke the 
Black Speech.”
Ginar adds quietly: “His voice… Till the end of my days, 
I will hear that voice… Like fear, given breath… And 
there was someone with him, something else that kept 
to the shadows… They were in a rush when they left, the 
following day, several of the Men spoke together about still 
having to go to the Coldfells and being behind schedule.”
The Dwarves can remember little else about their ordeal, 
other than that they heard the “Captain” leaving sometime 
early last night, taking several Trolls and Men with him. If 
any of the characters decides to make a DC 13 Wisdom 
(Survival) check north of the camp, they easily find a trail 
smashed through the woods by several large creatures, 
heading north, deeper into the Trollshaws.
The Dwarves clearly need help. Gondril will insist that the 
best course of action is to escort them back to Rivendell 
at once. The characters can sort out the treasure with the 
Dwarves as they see fit; the Dwarves really aren’t in a 
position to argue, but they will definitely remember how 
honourably the Company deals with them and “their 
stolen wealth,” as will Gondril.
- Part Two - 
At the House of Elrond
The journey back to the Last Homely House takes 
another three days. Fortunately the weather is fine, so 
the Company travels at a decent speed, regardless of the 
presence of three weary Dwarves. If the Company has not 
been to Rivendell before, Gondril will lead them. Soon after 
passing the borders of the Trollshaws and moving into the 
foothills that lead up towards the Misty Mountains, riders 
appear unexpectedly to the east and swiftly approach the 
characters. These outriders from Rivendell take in a brief 
summary of the characters’ tidings of what occurred and 
after passing over some extra supplies, return to tell the 
house of their coming.
When the companions first arrive in sight of Rivendell, 
wonder fills the eyes of the Dwarves as they tread the 
path going down into the valley. The doors of the house 
are flung open, and several Elves come to take care of 
the Dwarves and calmly usher them away. Lindir, the 
seneschal of the house, welcomes the heroes and invites 
them to eat and drink their fill in the great hall, then to get 
a good night’s rest, for they are to meet with Master Elrond 
himself in the morning. Presuming they brought her back 
safely, Gondril thanks the Company “for the adventure” 
and states that she will pass on the tale of their bravery.
A Company that has played through Nightmares of 
Angmar (see page 7) has seen Rivendell and met Elrond 
already. Companions who never entered the hidden 
valley before will certainly take the chance to take a look 
around: the information presented in Rivendell Region 
Guide starting on page 6 can be used to improvise a 
memorable session of exploration and discovery.
Which Way to Rivendell?
It is possible that, through ill-luck, the Company have 
never been to Imladris and have no guide (if Gondril was 
slain or the Player-heroes became separated from her). 
In this case, the outriders of Rivendell will approach 
the Company. Master Elrond has a foresight on him, 
they explain, and the companions are to follow them to 
the Last Homely House.
Meeting Elrond
In the early morning, Lindir comes to wake the characters 
and invite them to join Elrond at the eastern porch. 
The sun hasn’t even risen all the way above the Misty 
Mountains yet. Elrond meets the companions wearing a 
simple blue robe lined with silver, held with a Mithril belt 
that glitters in the rising light. He asks the Company to sit 
in chairs placed in a semi-circle with a kindly smile, before 
settling into a chair set across from them. He softly thanks 
the characters for coming before the break of day.
The Company will need to choose someone to serve to 
introduce themselves to the Master of Imladris. If they 
visited the Last Bridge at his bequest, then the spokesperson 
7

--- PAGE 43 ---
43
is instead reporting on their assigned mission. Elrond 
expects this meeting, however, and will be Friendly to any 
speaker (unless they are a High Elf or a Dúnadan, in which 
case they are Favoured).
Motivation: I am one of the guardians of Middle-earth 
and I lay upon myself the solemn oath of aiding all who 
would protect it from the Shadow.
Expectations: +1 if the Company brings news to Imladris 
– Elrond knows much but is always happy to learn more; 
+2 if the heroes have a member or ally of the White Council 
as a Patron; -1 if they ask Elrond to make decisions on 
their behalf – he is a counsellor and lore-master but not a 
leader of Men.
Introduction
The eyes of Elrond shine perceptibly in the darkness of 
the porch like two luminous stars as he regards each 
character in turn with great attentiveness when they are 
speaking. He will ask questions of each companion, either 
to learn more of their history or their deeds during the last 
few days. If anyone has had time to set their answers in 
verse, it will impress the lore-master, gaining a +1 bonus 
to the Final Audience Check.
Interaction
By the time the characters have finished speaking, the 
first rays of the sun have finally begun to shine fully on 
the valley of Imladris. Elrond stands and walks about 
the porch, and starts explaining why he asked to see the 
companions.
“I made this valley my home in the Second Age of this 
world. A place of healing, of refuge. A stronghold of 
wisdom. A house filled with light to hold the darkness at 
bay.”
“There is a riddle I have thought on many times, perhaps 
because it has no true answer. Whose is the greater calling? 
The scholar who knows the ways to heal a wound, or the 
warden who prevents it from ever occurring?”
Elrond listens with interest to the Company’s opinions. 
There is no right answer, rather it is a test of sorts to 
see how the characters think. The players may propose 
different ability checks to support their views, and History, 
Insight, Lore and Riddle can all be used to help define 
each characters’ answer to the conundrum and how well 
they express it (DC 10 for each check).
If all of the heroes try to answer the question, however 
haltingly, Elrond deems that the Company might be 
composed of those who wise enough for his needs and 
they gain a +2 bonus to the Final Audience Check. 
After the characters have finished, Elrond states: “While 
we need to give them time to heal, I have spoken a little with 
Harder than Stone

--- PAGE 44 ---
Eriador Adventures
44
the Dwarves you rescued. Vidar and his brother fought at 
the Battle of Nanduhirion and are not like to forget what 
they learned on that blood-soaked field. What do you 
make of these bandits and their… singular Captain?”
The characters can answer as they will. Suitable Traits or 
proficiency in appropriate skills may be used as needed 
to help them bolster or back up their opinions. Honesty 
is what Lord Elrond wishes to see: heroes that only know 
enough to be afraid of the Captain are as respected as 
the Elven-wise who speak of Sauron and Mordor, but 
braggarts who spin falsehoods earn a -2 modifier to the 
Final Audience Check.
Elrond’s Task
At the end of the audience, Elrond has probably heard 
enough to determine that the Company will serve for the 
mission he has in mind, though they should now make a 
Final Audience Check to determine exactly how much he 
expects from them and what he ultimately offers in return. 
“Far to the south lies the black land of Mordor, but not 
far enough, I deem. I see the hand of the Shadow in this 
and my heart bids me to act. It is in my mind to send you 
forth after this ‘Captain’ who knows the Black Speech; to 
discover as far as you are able who he is, and what he is 
about here in the West.
“If you agree, you must go at once. While he is perhaps 
four or five days ahead of you, his Stone-troll companions 
will slow his progress, as they cannot abide the light of 
the Sun. If he is truly headed north into the Coldfells, you 
should be able to pick up his trail in the Trollshaws.”
Presuming the Company agrees to undertake the mission, 
Elrond’s offer is determined by how much they have 
managed to impress him. Compare their final result with 
the entries below.
Failure. Elrond is not exactly impressed with the Company 
and wonders if he made an error in judgment. He implies 
that doing this task for him is what is required to keep the 
companions in his good graces and still welcome in the 
halls of Imladris.
Success by 0–3. Elrond regards the companions as young 
and perhaps rash, and does not trust them enough to give 
them more confidential information or support. This said, 
he concludes that one must use what tools one has to 
hand.
Success by 4–5. The companions have won the trust 
of Elrond, showing both wit and spirit. The Master of 
Imladris offers them a flask of Erestor’s Travelling Cordial 
(see Rivendell Region Guide, page 18).
Success by 6+. Elrond believes the companions may 
just be the sort of heroes he has been seeking for the 
dark times to come. Apply the result for the entry above. 
Additionally, should the Company succeed in the task, 
Elrond will offer himself as a patron for the Company in 
the future.
If the companions agree to undertake Elrond’s quest, the 
Master of Imladris summons Lindir to make sure that the 
companions’ need for provisions and travelling gear are 
swiftly met. Then, he presents the characters with a map 
of the region, showing the Trollshaws and the Coldfells 
beyond. Lindir and Elrond briefly speak about what 
awaits them if they haven’t travelled in the region before, 
noting that the lands they are heading to are far from the 
abodes of Men or Elves — the wastes north of Imladris are 
Troll country.
Characters with the appropriate traits (Old-lore, Elven-
lore or similar) know that the lands they are to travel 
through were once part of the eastern border of the 
realm of Arnor, before becoming part of the kingdom 
of Rhudaur. Its history has ever been troubled, its final 
kings were of Hillmen, not Númenórean, descent, and 
they were vassals of the dreaded kingdom of Angmar. 
All that remains of them are ruins amidst the cracked 
highlands and old, sad songs. 
When the preparations are over, the companions can be 
off when they want to, but they better hurry. When they 
are finally ready to go, Elrond wishes them good luck and 
sees them on their way.

--- PAGE 45 ---
45
- Part Three - 
Picking up the Trail
The Company once again sets off from Rivendell, making 
an Embarkation Roll as normal. It takes three days to 
return to the bandit’s camp, where the companions 
can endeavour to pick up the trail. Other than having 
endured one or two light rains, the encampment has not 
changed much from how the Company left it. If any of 
the companions searched the north of the bandit camp 
when they were first there and found their quarry’s 
trail, they automatically pick it up again. If not, a DC 15 
Wisdom (Survival) check will pick up the correct trail 
heading north.
• 
If the Company fails all their rolls, or someone rolls a 
natural 1 they have found one or more false trails that 
resemble the true one too closely to be certain. The 
companions gain a level of Exhaustion, to represent 
the weariness that comes from having to constantly 
double-check their route through the thick, hilly 
woods.
Back into the Trollshaws 
The Trollshaws are justly famed as an area not to travel 
through lightly. Not only are Trolls a frequent danger, the 
heavily forested hills are covered with sharp rocks and 
thick blankets of mouldering leaves, which are ever wet 
and prone to shifting beneath one’s feet without warning. 
• 
The Company will spend five days through the 
Trollshaws on the trail of the bandits’ Captain. This 
leg of the journey will have 1d2-1 Journey Events. The 
Peril Rating is 2.
3
Rivendell
E
The Last Bridge
n
Lone-lands
The Troll-Hole 
E
Castle Hill 
E
E
The Refuge of 
the Dúnedain
a
n
n
Cairn of the Crag-king
E
o
East 
Road
The Burial Bog
E
Harder than Stone

--- PAGE 46 ---
Eriador Adventures
46
Journey Event Suggestions
Should the companions happen to experience a Journey 
event during such this short trek, the Loremaster may use 
the following suggestions or the more extensive tables in 
Rivendell Region Guide. 
Troll Trap (An Obstacle)
Trolls are famously dull-witted, but one or two seem to 
have picked up a new trick. The Look-out must make a 
Perception check. Failure indicates the companion gets 
hauled into the air by a rope about the ankle as the hero 
stumbles into a Troll’s snare trap. The hero takes 7 (2d6) 
bludgeoning damage from the snare. 
Hailstorm (The Wonders of Middle-earth)
The canopy of interwoven tree branches above the 
Trollshaws is thick, even if not quite as oppressive as 
Mirkwood. There are many gaps through which sun, rain 
and wind pour through. Sometimes, too many. A sudden 
storm of heavy hail strikes, bombarding the Company 
with pellets of ice the size of pigeon’s eggs. Companions 
who succeed find shelter amidst the trees but the others 
get pelted before they find a safe space. 
Into the Coldfells
Eight days out from Imladris, the Company leaves the 
beeches and pines of the Trollshaws behind to see the vast 
windswept foothills of the Coldfells rising before them.
The Coldfells are highlands criss-crossed by deep crevasses 
and unexpected gorges, many holding tributaries to the 
river Hoarwell. Nimble sheep and agile goats bound 
between broken cairns and barrows along the peaks, long 
since overturned and despoiled by Trolls. This leg of the 
journey covers 70 miles of hard going across the hard 
terrain of the Coldfells and to the broken keep and Part 
Four — Deep Plans. This leg has 1d2 Journey Events and a 
Peril Rating of 3.
The Coldfells are windswept and frequently dreary, but 
late spring sees small wild flowers covering the knolls, 
lending some much-needed colour to the long high hills, 
ever rising east towards the Misty Mountains. Much of 
the Coldfells appears to be the same as one traverses them 
and this can be a deadly illusion, for cracks and crevices 
appear without warning before an unwary traveller, 
potentially plunging them to their doom.
Hunting the Captain
The Guide must make a DC 15 Wisdom (Survival) check 
to stay on Mormog’s trail across the shifting sides of the 
Coldfells’ many hills. While it has been about six days 
since the ‘Ogre Captain’ passed this way, he has a heavy 
tread and travels with a decently-sized company.
If successful, the trail leads to a small camp that the evil folk 
used recently. The Scout can make a DC 15 Intelligence 
(Investigation) check to examine the various evidence 
left behind. On a success, the heroes now know that 
the Captain travels with at least two other Trolls and 
several Men. If the Scout succeeded by 5 or more, then 
the companions find additional, more confusing, signs. It 
seems that Mormog is followed by something else, but no 
one can tell what kind of creature it is… sometimes the 
markings appear as if made by a Man, other-times by an 
Elf or an Orc, or even a four-legged beast.
For each failed check, the Company adds one level of 
Exhaustion as they search among the foothills for many 
fruitless hours before finally discern the right trail.
3
Rivendell
E
The Last Bridge
n
Lone-lands
The Troll-Hole 
E
Castle Hill 
E
E
The Refuge of 
the Dúnedain
a
n
n
Cairn of the 
Crag-king
E
o
East 
Road
The Burial Bog
E

--- PAGE 47 ---
47
- Part Four - 
Deep Plans
Several days after finding Mormog’s camp, the Company 
descends into a gorge, climbing down a series of steps, 
hewn roughly on the side of one of its steep walls. They 
follow a gurgling stream at the bottom of the gorge as it 
slowly turns to the West, until they come in sight of a tall 
hill, towering above them to their left. On the top of the 
hill sit the ruined stump of an old keep and the remains 
of a long curtain wall of stone. These ruins don’t look so 
different than others the characters have seen over the last 
five days in the Coldfells, with two notable exceptions: the 
tracks they are following lead right towards the hill and 
the ruins seem occupied. The tell-tale gleam of metal and 
motion reveals the presence of occupants of the outpost 
from quite a distance, but it doesn’t exactly look like 
they’re trying to hide, either.
From the gorge, the companions can see that a trail climbs 
the steep side of the hill towards its summit. The roar of 
rushing waters tells them that the river Hoarwell must be 
close, somewhere to the north-west of the ruins.
• 
The heroes have arrived at their destination, 
dangerous as it may be, and thus make an Arrival 
Roll, applying a -1 due to the harsh terrain in addition 
to any other modifiers earned along the way. There’s 
a chance (if the Company is tricksy or extraordinarily 
brave) that they might be able to sleep within the walls 
of the keep. Otherwise, they might find a secluded dell 
with soft grass and a nearby stream… the heroes can 
take a long rest.
The Broken Keep
The fortification is ancient beyond the reckoning of the 
Men of Eriador, yet there it stands, still partially intact. 
It was erected by the Men of Westernesse for a precise 
purpose, now lost to memory, but the Númenóreans built 
things to last and the fort outlasted the line of the kings 
that ordered its construction. Indeed, it was partially 
the hardiness of its foundations that prompted Captain 
Mormog to choose it for his grand plans.
From the outside, the fort looks just like many other ruins 
that rise from the broken terrain of the Coldfells. But, like 
a floating island of ice, what lies beneath the surface is 
far larger.
Mormog has expanded a series of existing underground 
passages and chambers, making room for large creatures 
like Trolls to come and go. Then, he brought Goblin slaves 
from Mount Gram for an ambitious undertaking, the 
excavation of a wide tunnel that will pass beneath the river 
Hoarwell: a subterranean road that one day will let entire 
armies enter unseen the lands to the West! The Goblins 
have been digging Mormog’s tunnel for years now, and 
have many long years of work before them still. But last 
year, the excavations brought to light something that was 
meant to be buried forever: an underground chamber, 
sealed with the markings of the kingdoms of Arnor (see 
The Vault below).
The Vault
When Mormog was alerted to the discovery of the buried vault, he ordered the seals to be removed, and the stone 
door of the chamber was pried open. Inside the chamber Mormog found something lost long ago: chained to a wall 
was a slave of Sauron, a corrupted spirit made flesh, buried alive and trapped centuries ago and left to languish in 
the dark. But what happened next was something even the Captain did not expect: the chained being kneeled before 
Mormog, promising to serve him with unswerving loyalty, should he break its fetters. The Captain ordered the 
thing to be freed, as the cunning Troll had read the runes graven into the thing’s collar in Black Speech: spells of 
obeisance and submission.
It is a strange fate, perhaps, that has placed Feredrûn, the Hunter of the East, at the service of Mormog, a stroke 
of luck that the Captain is eager to exploit fully to further his own wicked ends (see Part Five – Bargains in the 
Night).
Harder than Stone

--- PAGE 48 ---
Eriador Adventures
48
Captain Mormog and several of his more trusted warriors 
stayed at the fort for several days, inspecting how the works 
were proceeding there. Two days before the arrival of the 
Company they left again heading north-east, towards the 
Ettendales. The adventurers are unlikely to discover this 
before they enter the ruins. 
Once the Company learns enough to move on, they can 
attempt to follow Mormog. It isn’t hard to pick up the 
Captain’s trail when they are certain of what they are 
seeking. There are tracks of several large creatures (no 
Men this time) headed to the north-east that are only two 
days old.
The Fort
The following descriptions present the layout of the 
structures above the ground, and those below (it might 
be worth noting that nothing suggests immediately that 
the keep sits upon an extensive complex of underground 
passages and chambers).
The Surface
The ruins rising above the hilltop are presently inhabited 
by six Men (use the Ruthless Bandits stats found at 
page 40). They are in charge of keeping watch on the 
surrounding countryside, and of catching some game to 
enrich with some fresh meat the soup served to everyone 
in the fort (there is a 1-in-6 chance every day that two of 
them leave the fort to go hunting).
1. Curtain Wall: A long stone wall surrounds the top 
of the hill almost completely. Several gaps open along 
its length, and the side of the hilltop looking out towards 
the river Hoarwell is completely open (the height and 
steepness of the hillside didn’t need further defense).
2. Broken Keep: Once rising almost forty feet above 
the already tall vantage afforded by the hill, the square 
tower has been greatly reduced in size. Whether it was 
the hand of time that gnawed at it, or fire and warfare, 
it is impossible to tell. There are generally two Bandits 
stationed on top of it on guard, keeping look-out on the 
surrounding lands. Most of the time, they are somewhat 
idle as they don’t expect to see anything of interest.
a) Old Barracks: Several well-made chambers on 
the ground floor of the keep still serve their original 
purpose. Rough made cots sit in the corners of two 
of these rooms. The bandits that aren’t on watch can 
either be found here, or in the Map Room.
b) Map Room: Located at the first floor of the keep, 
this room sports a beautiful mosaic floor. The stone 
tiles are still perfectly set so as to leave the surface 
flawlessly smooth. The mosaic shows a map of Arnor 
as it was, before the division into three kingdoms. The 
largest and most detailed element of the topographic 
depiction is the city of Annúminas, the ancient capital 
of that realm. The north-eastern portion of the map 
appears now cracked, as the roots of a sickly plant 
have pushed and fractured the mosaic tiles, making it 
look like a plague is creeping across the map from the 
north. It doesn’t take a lore-master to know that the 
cracks correspond to the witch-realm of Angmar. The 
room now houses a table and several rough chairs.
c) Armoury: Here is where the arms and armour 
for the outpost’s garrison were originally kept. Now, 
it serves as a larder and storage room for assorted 
pieces of equipment, broken weapons and various 
other junk. There is a haunch or two of fresh venison 
here, among other meats and sundries.
3. Cave Entrance: To the east of the keep, right below the 
curtain wall, a roughly expanded cavern entrance leads 
to the chambers below ground. This opening isn’t difficult 
to reach, but someone who gets attacked by surprise while 
approaching it risks falling into the gorge below (a fall of 
60 feet).
Underground
In the caves and underground chambers dug in the 
hill below the fort live Bron and Pell, two Stone-trolls, 
and Gorzim, an especially mean Hill-troll Chief. Deeper 
underground, fifty or so Goblin slaves can be met in the 
various locales, digging the tunnel or going about on other 
errands. The slaves are kept in line by a band of three cruel 
Orcs slave-drivers, carrying whips in addition to their usual 
war gear (use the statistics for Orcs of Mount Gram, from 
Rivendell Region Guide page 79 and add the Cruel Lash 
ability from page 120 of the Loremaster’s Guide).
1. Troll Caves: Not part of the original construction 
are a series of caves that have been hacked out of the

--- PAGE 49 ---
49
The Surface
The Broken Keep
Underground
6
Harder than Stone

--- PAGE 50 ---
Eriador Adventures
50
hillside, providing room for approximately seven Trolls, if 
they squeezed in tight. During the day, Bron and Pell can 
usually be found here, dozing. Occasionally, they get up 
and go looking for something to eat down below in the 
Goblin Pits.
2. Treasury: This is a narrow, rectangular room, probably 
an old cellar. An exquisite fresco covers the far wall. It 
depicts a city built from white stone, with many elaborate 
columns, and a large white tree. While still beautiful, part 
of the fresco has been defaced by a Troll cave being dug 
through it. Gorzim makes his home here in the treasury 
of Captain Mormog and his men. Gems twinkle from the 
floor amidst clay pots spilling silver, which sit beside small 
chests filled with gold, surrounded by arms and armour, 
some of them potentially centuries old. The room holds a 
hoard containing Treasure 120**, the loot of many years 
of scouring the ruins and tombs of ancient Rhudaur. There 
is no way to get to the treasure without alerting Gorzim.
3. Entrance to the Tunnel: Beyond the Troll caves is a 
long tunnel leading downwards in a big slow spiral to the 
beginning of the Goblin Pits below.
4. Goblin Pits: A large series of caves, some natural, 
some expanded upon, with enough room to house the 
Goblin slaves. A large meat pantry is nearby.
5. Tool ‘Shed’: A large storage pit where various digging 
tools are kept. Everything from picks and mattocks to 
large kegs of awful ale, beer and other spirits, mixed with 
other liquids of dubious provenance. The bones of dozens 
of Goblins line the bottom of the pit. Mormog and the Orc 
slave-drivers know how to make the Goblins work hard, 
and the Trolls grow too hungry sometimes…
6. The Tunnel: Here begins the long tunnel that will pass 
beneath the river Hoarwell. A character possessing the 
Stone-craft trait can tell at a glance that the shaft is at 
least ten years or so in the making, with years to go before 
completion.
7. The Vault: A short side passage from the main 
excavation of the tunnel leads to where the vault was 
discovered. The large door of stone lies on the ground, 
among the remains of the brass seals removed by 
Mormog. If the companions inspect the door and seals, 
they recognise the stone-craft as Númenórean, and the 
seals as bearing the symbols of Arnor; this clearly marks 
the vault as something built in the Second Age!
Inside, the vault is empty and bare, its surfaces smooth 
and blank, devoid of any signs of wear or other marks, 
with the exception of the wall facing the opening: there, a 
heavy chain of iron hangs from a ring set into the wall; the 
last ring on the other end of the chain has been broken, 
as if something was fastened to it but was set loose. The 
darkness here seems to be thick as a cold vapour, and 
every companion entering the chamber must pass a 
Corruption check: a DC 20 Wisdom saving throw or gain 
a point of Shadow.
Entering the Ruins
The Company needs information, as Captain Mormog 
hasn’t left any useful paper trail or other obvious clues; 
however, while the occupants of the fort are not privy to 
all the Captain’s plans, they all know that he has left and 
where he is headed.
The companions have time to consider how to enter the 
broken fort, but there seem to be two main ways into the 
ruins: through one of the gaps in the curtain wall to reach 
the keep, or going directly underground, once they discover 
that there is a cave entrance dug into the side of the hill.
Unless the companions want to be spotted immediately 
by the bandits standing watch on the keep, they will 
want to avoid taking the path climbing to the top of the 
hill. Climbing the steep hillside from the bottom of the 
gorge requires a DC 15 Strength (Athletics) check. On a 
success, the companion reaches the curtain wall, and can 
enter the ruins through one of the gaps opening along it. 
A successful hero can lower a rope to grant Advantage on 
other companion’s Athletics checks.
“We’re the New Guys”
Clever (or foolish!) companions may try to enter the fort 
taking the place of some of the bandits, or posing as new 
arrivals. This has a chance of working spectacularly well, 
as new faces arrive occasionally at the keep: Mormog 
is always looking to reinforce his forces, and has been 
welcoming all sorts.
It takes at least a DC 13 Charisma (Persuasion) check 
to convince any of the Trolls, or the Orcs below, that the 
characters are supposed to be here, asking whatever 
5
6
5

--- PAGE 51 ---
51
questions they may be asking. A Company with one or 
more Elves has Disadvantage on the check (unless they 
anticipate this and disguise those members as ‘prisoners’ 
that the Captain wants to interrogate). Characters who 
supply Bron or Pell with ale, or any of the Goblins with 
food, are automatically cheerfully accepted and swiftly 
brought into conversation about the latest doings; 
everybody is bored, so news from a newcomer is welcome.
A failed roll means that everybody clams up and says 
they’ve got to work. On a natural 1 they ask Gorzim about 
the newcomers as soon as they get a chance, potentially 
setting up a confrontation with the Hill-troll Chief.
Gorzim’s Suspicions
If the heroes fail their Persuasion check or succeed 
but then do something to raise suspicions (such as 
allowing Elven prisoners to wander freely, asking 
too many questions about the keep and the Captain’s 
plans or being nice to the Goblin slaves), they will find 
themselves being interviewed by Gorzim, with Bron 
and Pell at his side.The Hill-troll Chief is not so easily 
fooled. It takes a DC 20 Charisma (Persuasion) check 
to convince him, although companions clever enough to 
say "Captain’s orders" or any variation thereof gain 
Advantage on the roll. Failure almost certainly means 
the Company will be attacked — they’re obviously not 
supposed to be there and the Trolls are always hungry.
Attacking the Guards
Entering the ruins and attacking the Bandits on guard 
duty on the top of the keep is a fairly straightforward 
endeavour; taking them down before they can sound the 
large bell they’ve got will be hard. The bandits really don’t 
expect to be attacked – they are, after all, in the middle of 
nowhere – so the heroes have Advantage on any Stealth 
checks and their Initiative rolls. Once attacked, they will 
immediately try to sound the bell. If they are given enough 
time (two rounds), they will succeed, and the other four 
bandits will show up.
A fight will in any case make enough noise that Bron and 
Pell will be alerted (but they won’t come into the sun). 
Gorzim on the other hand might choose to intervene: 
Player-heroes approaching the fort during the day and 
assuming that all the Trolls in the fort are Stone-trolls will 
be in for a big surprise when he charges out of the cave 
entrance and attempts to smash them flat. The Orcs and 
Goblins down below can hear nothing of what is going 
on above and vice-versa, unless the alarm is sounded. It 
would never occur to any of the Trolls to ask for help, but if 
the Bandits get overwhelmed and any of them manage to 
escape, they may well run down to the mines and the Orc 
slave-drivers from Mount Gram will drop their whips and 
unsheathe their curved swords.
Dealing with the Trolls
Bron and Pell do not like to be awoken during the day and 
are sluggish if attacked (they have Disadvantage on their 
Initiative rolls). They are also quite chatty if bribed with 
ale. They don’t know exactly what Mormog is up to but, 
“Oh, aye, the Cap’n’s a tricky one, don’ yer know. Wants to 
‘ave a bit of a chat wit’ ta other lads, doesn’t he?”
Gorzim is a Hill-troll Chief (see the Loremaster’s Guide, 
page 107). He is far more suspicious than the Stone-trolls 
and possibly far more dangerous, too. His main priority, 
before all others, is to protect the treasury, like the Captain 
told him to.
Sneaking Around
As long as the alarm is not sounded, it takes one or more 
DC 12 Dexterity (Stealth) checks to move about the fort 
unnoticed. The companions have Advantage on these 
checks, as the roar of the Hoarwell is very loud here, and 
the bandits on watch are inattentive.
Characters successfully skulking about get to make a DC 
10 Wisdom (Perception) check to hear the following 
bits of information. Each success provides one piece of 
information or two snippets if the hero succeeds by 5 or 
more:
• 
Captain Mormog has big plans for this region of 
Eriador.
• 
Bron and Pell are Stone-trolls who love ale. They are 
asleep in one of the caves.
• 
The Captain is heading into the Ettendales.
• 
Something occasionally travels with the Captain, 
and its presence unnerves everyone.
• 
Gorzim is a Hill-troll and it’s best not to cheek him in 
the slightest, but he near worships the Captain.
3
5
Harder than Stone

--- PAGE 52 ---
Eriador Adventures
52
A character proficient with Shadow-lore or possessing the 
Dark Secrets trait will know that “Mormog” in the Black 
Speech means “Black Voice” but it tells them little else.
- Part Five - 
Bargains in the Night
The first evening the companions make camp after they 
have left the fort behind, they encounter the thing that 
Mormog freed from the buried vault under the broken 
keep. It is a disloyal agent of Sauron, a hunting spirit from 
beyond the Circles of the World (see The Hunter of the East 
on the following page).
The creature chooses to approach the adventurers when 
the night is well underway. The companion who is set on 
watch notices a deepening of the darkness around the 
encampment, as if a cloud were covering the light of the 
stars and moon, yet the night sky is very clear. Then, a voice 
comes out of the still night, addressing the companion on 
guard:
“Greetings. Perhaps you should wake your companions 
and we can talk.” The creature waits in the shadows while 
the character complies. A Company with a fire, or lighting 
a torch to see better, who ask the voice to “come into the 
light” or some variation thereof will receive a reply of, 
“When you are all ready.”
When the Company expresses a general willingness to 
meet with the unknown visitor, the darkness seems to 
recede, and Feredrûn walks into view. Her appearance 
is that of a young woman clad in glittering raiment, her 
hair lying on her shoulders as pale in the moonlight as 
polished silver. 
Her beauty seems unmeasurable in mortal terms, and any 
Elf laying eyes on her realises she does not belong to the 
race of Men, nor to that of the Firstborn. The only blemish 
marring such a vision is the heavy collar of iron she wears 
around her neck. Fiery runes glitter along its surface.
The apparition surveys the Company, her dark, cold eyes 
looking at each of them for several long moments. Then 
she speaks:
“I have been called with many names since I entered Arda, 
many long years ago, but here in the West I am called 
Feredrûn. I think you may be the ones I’ve been searching 
for.”
Audience with the Hunter
To be in the presence of Feredrûn is like standing in 
the middle of a great cave, or at the opening of a deep 
valley — all sounds seem remote and near at the same 
time, as if they were echoes carried by the wind. Her 
otherworldliness, and her power, is plain for anyone to 
perceive.
7

--- PAGE 53 ---
53
Hopefully, 
the 
companions 
address 
the 
creature 
peacefully: Feredrûn is a hunting spirit clad in a physical 
body. She can suffer pain and weariness, but because of 
the original nobility of her spirit she does not age and 
cannot be slain. Moreover, her nature has endowed her 
physical form with many virtues: she can enshroud herself 
in a supernatural darkness to hide from her enemies, 
and she can travel long distances in the pursuit of her 
quarry, being able to move at night as far as the flight of 
a fast bird. Should the companions try to attack her, or 
otherwise harm her, she will simply leave their presence, 
retreating into her darkness. Many of Feredrûn’s qualities 
are explained by her history, see The Hunter of the East for 
more information.
Motivation: I want my freedom. Middle-earth is my 
prison.
Expectations:
• 
Feredrûn favours plain speech over crooked words. 
If the companions prevaricate or are unreasonably 
evasive, they earn a -2 modifier
• 
If anyone dares to sing or play an instrument for the 
spirit, the Company is in for a surprise… Feredrûn 
stands mesmerised, recalling times when she danced 
before the Valar upon the green grass of Valinor. The 
heroes earn a +2 modifier.
• 
If there are one or more Dúnedain present, apply a -1 
modifier… Feredrûn still remembers her imprisoner.
• 
If there are one or more Elves present, add +1. She 
believes that the First-born have the best chance of 
helping her.
Introduction
Even the lore of the First-born and the Men of the West are 
left wanting when it comes to negotiating with spirits from 
beyond the Circles of the World. And so the speaker for the 
Company must choose to either spend time proclaiming 
their accomplishments and allegiances (a DC 15 Charisma 
check made with Advantage) or choose to spend time 
stumbling over titles and greetings (a DC 15 Intelligence 
check made with Disadvantage). If successful, Feredrûn will 
be Friendly (DC 11) for the Final Audience check or she will 
be Mistrustful (DC 14) on a failure.
The creature’s name is Feredrûn, the "Hunter of the 
East", and she was once a huntress of the host of Oromë. 
The Dark Lord invited her centuries ago to return to 
Middle-earth and assume a physical form, seducing her 
with lies and promises. Then, Sauron bound her to his 
will by setting about her neck an iron collar, inscribed 
with powerful sorceries of obeisance and submission; thus 
spell-enslaved, Feredrûn could not choose but to submit to 
the will of any loyal servant of Sauron.
According to the Dark Lord’s plans, Feredrûn was first 
sent to spy and waylay the enemies of Sauron, and then 
to hunt for the Rings of Power created by the Elves of 
Eregion that Sauron greatly desired. For many years, 
the incarnated spirit carried out the orders of her Master, 
until the Dark Lord himself was defeated in the War of 
the Last Alliance.
When the Ruling Ring was cut from Sauron’s hand, 
Feredrûn wandered witless and purposeless for a while. 
Then, she was encountered and captured in Eriador by 
a lieutenant of Isildur, as he was making his way home 
after the long siege in the Black Land. Unable to defeat 
or banish her, the Númenórean lieutenant resolved to 
imprison the powerful spirit, and ordered the construction 
of a secret vault, dug deep under the foundations of a 
watchtower.
In the following centuries, the power of Arnor waned. 
After the death of its tenth king the realm was divided 
in three kingdoms, and the purpose of the keep and the 
vault it guarded was lost. Deep under the earth, Feredrûn 
slumbered uneasily, in a sleep that lasted centuries. She 
awakened from it only a few years ago, when the call 
of the Witch-king stirred her from her dark dreams.
Today, the Hunter of the East is free from the chains 
that confined her underground, but she is once again 
spellbound to a servitor of her Master, Captain Mormog. 
After so many years of slavery, what Feredrûn desires 
beyond all other things is to leave Middle-earth…
The Hunter of the East
Harder than Stone

--- PAGE 54 ---
Eriador Adventures
54
Interaction
Feredrûn may pass on the following information about 
herself to the players as the interaction stage progresses:
“I am an unwilling servant of the Shadow. The body you 
see before you is my prison, cast in flesh and bone. Once 
I roamed free in the void between songs, unclad and 
formless. The Dark Lord called me out of the Night, lulling 
me with honeyed words. He promised me new experiences, 
such as I could not dream of, in exchange for a simple task, 
and then I could return to the void if I wished it…
“Truly he is named the Deceiver. When I came into the 
world and kneeled before him, Sauron placed this collar 
around my neck, binding me to his will and that of his 
servants. He sent me to hunt for his enemies, and later 
to search for Elven rings. I obeyed, unable to oppose his 
will.
“I have laboured long on his quests and I have grown 
weary of this shackled body. Now I long only to leave 
the circles of this world, to return whence I came. But the 
spells that Sauron laid on this collar are still too powerful 
for me to break by my strength alone, and here I am after 
all these years, still leashed to yet another minion of the 
Dark Lord who imprisoned me.
“But maybe the time has come… My current master is 
the one you are seeking, Mormog. Do you wish to find 
him, and, perhaps, thwart his plans? You cannot tarry, for 
some of them, at least, are reaching fruition. I can help 
you, but only if you promise to set me free.”
While the players will certainly recognise the various 
subjects that she refers to in her speech, several of the 
things that Feredrûn mentions would only be known to 
the Wise and characters with appropriate traits. But the 
gist of what she wants is clear to anyone listening to her 
words. Feredrûn knows that the companions are searching 
for Mormog; bound by her collar, she cannot openly 
betray her master, but she can choose not to oppose the 
adventurers. She will do so if the heroes can convince her 
that they can help her leave Middle-earth once and for 
all. The huntress knows that no one in the Company likely 
has the power to break her collar or otherwise set her free, 
but the heroes may suggest that they know someone who 
might be able to help (a patron like Elrond, or Gandalf the 
Grey, or wise Saruman…).
Many Questions
These are the answers that Feredrûn gives before a 
bargain is struck, if she is posed the right questions: 
How can we help you?
"My shackles are too strong for you to break, but I 
know that there is a place of lore hidden somewhere 
west of the mountains where someone who might know 
how to set me free resides. Even if I knew where it was, 
access to it would be forbidden to me. But perhaps you 
may know it, or may find your way to it."
What can you offer us in return?
"I know where Mormog is headed and some of his 
plans. I know how to help you avoid his guards, help 
you are going to need, for the way will be perilous."
How can we trust you?
"Consider this: what would I gain by deceiving you? 
Surely Mormog would reward me if I reported your 
presence. Even if you do not believe me, would you not 
still seek him? Or would you have me believe it mere 
coincidence that you have followed his trail so far?"
Dealmaking
If the Company refuses Feredrûn’s bargain, she shakes 
her head in a sad gesture. “So be it. I will not report you 
to Mormog. You may yet change your minds when you 
see what lies ahead… I will visit you again before this is 
finished.”
Then, the huntress retreats into the darkness, as the 
sounds of the night return to fill the space left vacant by 
her absence. Will she keep her word, or is she off to tell 
Captain Mormog all about them? 
If the companions are willing to strike a pact with 
Feredrûn, the Company’s speaker must make a Final 
Audience check, applying any relevant skill proficiencies 
(such as History, Lore or Shadow-lore) and any earned 
modifiers. If an agreement is reached, she will provide 
more information as specified below. Then, she leaves, 
leaving no trace of her having ever manifested.

--- PAGE 55 ---
55
Failure: Feredrûn suspects her days of waiting for 
heroes to help aren’t over yet. She keeps her answers to a 
minimum and may be willing to sell the characters out to 
Mormog, as she doubts they have any chance of freeing 
her.
Success by 0-3: Feredrûn sees an opportunity, but she has 
been tricked far too many times to trust the companions 
too openly. She provides a selection of the information 
presented below, including what is contained in a 
maximum of two entries (the Loremaster chooses, based 
on the questions of the heroes).
Success by 4-5: Feredrûn’s hunger for freedom is stirred, 
and she answers to most of the Company’s questions, 
explaining or expanding on its answers when she can. The 
information given to the players should include at least 
four entries among those listed below, as above based on 
the questions made by the companions.
Success by 6+: Feredrûn is truly hopeful for the first time 
in centuries, and puts her trust in the companions. She 
provides all the information asked of her, making sure to 
include her assistance in Concerning Trolls (see opposite).
What Feredrûn Knows
Who is Captain Mormog?
“Mormog is a fearsome monster, larger than the largest 
of Orc-kind but agile and cunning as the cleverest among 
them. He is evil and fierce as the meanest Mountain-troll, 
and able to endure the light of the sun. He is the first of his 
kind to have come to the North, the member of a fell race 
no doubt bred by Sauron himself.”
Why is he called “Captain”?
“It is his rank in the armies of the Black Land. He commands 
many dark-hearted minions: Trolls, Orcs and Evil Men.”
Why are you with Captain Mormog?
“Mormog freed me from my underground prison, and I 
had no choice but bend my will to the spells engraved on 
my collar. I am to assist him as needed with his plans.”
Where is he headed?
“Just beyond the borders of the Coldfells lie the Ettendales. 
Near the headwaters of the river Hoarwell there is a deep 
forested ravine, which opens into a wide valley floor. That 
narrow dale was once known as the Broadcleave, but no 
one today remembers it. Mormog has summoned there a 
gathering of the Troll-kindreds, and he will attend to give 
a speech.”
What is his speech about?
“I don’t know. Mormog tells me little. If you hurry, you 
should manage to arrive before the night on which he 
intends to speak.”
Concerning Trolls
Feredrûn explains that Trolls have, in general, very poor 
eyesight, especially during the day (for those that don’t turn 
into stone); however, nearly all of them have an excellent 
sense of smell. As the huntress explains, the characters 
must cover their scent to avoid being discovered too soon 
by their ‘quarry’. If the heroes have gained her full trust 
(succeeding by 6 or more), Feredrûn lays a spell upon the 
Company, giving them Advantage on any Stealth checks 
for a week.
- Part Six - 
Into the Ettendales
After leaving the fort behind, the Company travels north 
for a time, but soon swings more and more directly east, 
the river Hoarwell running to their left towards the 
Misty Mountains. The broken land and crevasses of the 
Coldfells give way to the broad, open valleys between the 
high hills of the Ettenmoors. This panorama is frequently 
difficult to see, though, as a heavy fog regularly obscures 
the company’s vision. Countless streams flow past, 
tributaries to the river in its rocky bed.
The Company travels for 40 miles to the headwaters of 
the southern branch of the Hoarwell. This journey takes 
six days to complete, and prompts 1d2 Journey Events 
at a Peril Rating of 4. The closer the companions come 
to the headwaters of the southernmost branch of the 
Hoarwell, the harsher the terrain. The highlands are all 
hard stone and sharp falls, surrounded by deep valleys 
whose bottoms are nearly always bogs filled with sucking 
black mud. The fog is even thicker and more perpetual 
than it was in the dales. Even where it isn’t completely 
sodden, the ground is thick and spongy with peat. Water 
collects into pools which run off downwards and west to 
feed the river.
5
5
Harder than Stone

--- PAGE 56 ---
Eriador Adventures
56
Journey Event Suggestions 
The Loremaster may use the following suggestions or have 
the Player-heroes roll on the tables in the Rivendell Region 
Guide instead.
Muddy Bones (A Place Touched by the Shadow)
The Company does not seem to be able to find its way 
out of a deep fog-bank and is struggling across one of 
the many boggy areas between the hills. Standing in the 
muck, you realise that your attempts to clamber free of the 
mud have disturbed the bones of some creature — perhaps 
this was once a shallow graveyard like so many places 
in these lands or you’ve stumbled across the remains of 
an unfortunate animal that was trapped in the bog. If the 
Scout failed his check by 5 or more then the dead might 
begin to rise… 
Down from the Mountains (The Enemy is Abroad)
Stomping slowly over the highlands comes a Mountain-
troll, slowly working his way towards the Broadcleave. 
See page 110 of the Loremaster’s Guide for Trolls. If the 
Look-out fails her Perception check, the Troll smells the 
companions and attacks them by ambush (the Player-
heroes are Surprised in the first round of combat). If 
the heroes are under Feredrûn’s spell of concealment, 
the Troll does not see them (unless they attack him, of 
course!).
To the Broadcleave
Beyond the headwaters of the Hoarwell there lies an 
ancient path cleaved out of the stones. Along the path, 
there are steps deeper and wider than the stride of any 
Troll. Many of the steps are long broken, or have been 
hacked away in turn, to allow for the passage of smaller 
beings. The path eventually leads down into a cavernous, 
forested ravine, which resembles nothing so much as an 
axe-strike deep into the base of the mountainside. 
At the bottom of the ravine, the floor of the dale is wider, 
and filled with grass and pine trees of such a dark green hue 
that the valley is almost uniformly black. The ravine ends 
against a massive, smooth, sheer rock-face that echoes 
and greatly increases all sounds. The Company arrives in 
sight of the place where the path starts descending into 
the Broadcleave at about mid-afternoon and easily finds 
a place among the forested hills to gaze, unnoticed, at 
what is going on at the entrance of the dale…
• 
While the Company is now eligible to make an Arrival 
Roll, it is unlikely that they will be able to take a long 
rest before Captain Mormog’s meeting.
An Unhappy Hour
In front of the entrance to the ravine stand barrels, 
and barrels and barrels… so many, in fact, that the 
companions spot them long before they see the actual 
entrance to the Broadcleave. There are big barrels, small 
barrels, casks, kegs, butts, drums, pipes, kilderkins, and 
hogsheads, and a great variety of large drinking vessels, 
like jugs, horns, tankards, canteens, even waterskins, 
pitchers and flagons.
Before the huge stacks of containers and drinking 
implements are three massive Hill-trolls. They are busy 
arranging the materials for transportation, following the 
peremptory directions of a brute of size comparable to 
theirs, but clad in black mail from bony head to clawed 
foot. The fearsome creature stands erect, making it look 
more like a gigantic Orc than a Troll; a huge sword with a 
curved and jagged blade is strapped across its wide back. 
The echoes of its harsh voice clearly reach the Player-
heroes where they are hiding, and sends shudders up their 
spines.Even at a great distance, the Company can feel the 
shadow of fear touch their hearts at even the thought of 
confronting such a monster: this must undoubtedly be the 
target of their quest, Captain Mormog. Not long after the 
n
Lone-lands
Castle Hill 
E
E
The Refuge of 
the Dúnedain
n
n
Cairn of the 
Crag-king
E
o
The Burial Bog
E
E
The Broadcleave
6
5

--- PAGE 57 ---
57
arrival of the companions, Mormog leaves the three Hill-
trolls to their business, and descends into the Broadcleave.
The Hunter Returns
If the Company made a bargain with Feredrûn, she 
finds them unerringly. She walks up to them as the 
twilight approaches, out of a swirling fog. She seems 
wearier than before, with black bruises around her 
neck, where the iron collar sits: Mormog thought she 
was too late to arrive at their latest meeting, and so he 
gave her a lesson in obedience. As they ponder how to 
enter the valley, Feredrûn says:
"You have finally seen my current gaoler. Already, the 
Trolls gather at his call. The ones intelligent enough 
to heed such a request, at least. Once the sun sets, 
many more will come to hear him speak. You won’t 
have problems understanding what he says: Mormog 
has been taught to speak by his Dark Master and 
favours the Black Speech, but few other Trolls speak 
it, so he will address them in the Common Tongue 
tonight. Since you’ve come this far, you should hear 
what he has to say. To do so, you will have to enter the 
Broadcleave."
Feredrûn believes the company’s best chance is to wait 
until the Trolls have started drinking, when the Sun 
sets. The barrels contain beer, wine and other liquors, 
and that will dull the Trolls’ senses. Alternatively, 
they might try to pass while the Sun is still up, but 
they will have to slip past the three Hill-trolls, plus any 
other Trolls that happen to arrive in the meantime. The 
ravine sides leading down to the Broadcleave are far 
too steep and loose to even attempt climbing stealthily. 
Eventually, Feredrûn takes her leave of the Company.
Our Hope is in Secrecy
The Company’s practical choices are to either slip forward 
to hide within the Broadcleave during the day or wait until 
after nightfall, when the Trolls have already gathered. 
By Daylight
The companions decide that their best bet is to slip into 
the Broadcleave by day. Approaching the entrance to 
the dale requires each hero to make a DC 13 Dexterity 
(Stealth) check; characters under Feredrûn’s spell roll with 
Advantage. A companion who fails his check can make a 
DC 8 Dexterity saving throw to dive for cover before he 
is spotted by the Hill-troll guards. If the throw succeeds, 
the companion can wait until the rest of the Company has 
passed, and then try once to make the Stealth check. If the 
second roll fails, the hero is separated from the Company, 
or he is spotted by the Trolls (player’s choice).
The companions who pass unnoticed descend the path 
into the Broadcleave. At the bottom of the valley they find 
that they may easily find a place to hide in the small but 
thick groves of pines on either side of the dale. Hiding is 
highly recommended: there are already several Hill-trolls 
and one or two huge Mountain-trolls down in the valley, 
waiting and attending to Mormog’s commands…
By Moonlight
If the Company decides to wait until nightfall, soon after 
twilight they see dozens of torches approaching from 
the north and east. A veritable army of Stone-trolls, 
accompanied by several Mountain-trolls and a few 
more Hill-trolls walk out of the darkness, and soon help 
themselves to the barrels and drinking vessels passed 
over by Mormog’s guards.
A good fifty or more Trolls of various sizes and breeds 
wander past the Company, down into the Broadcleave, 
many of them carrying the barrels and already drinking 
as they go. The noise is nearly deafening, the Trolls’ heavy 
voices booming and reverberating off the stones of the 
mountains. When the bulk have passed by, the three Hill-
trolls head down into the valley as well, leaving what looks 
to be a strange looking pile of mossy stones at the entrance 
to the Broadcleave. As the guards leave, to the Company’s 
astonishment, the stones move, features slowly emerging. 
A gigantic, two-headed Ettin now guards the entry!
Anyone in the Company can realise that it will be difficult to 
slip past the Ettin without a fight. Fortunately, there is one 
distinct advantage: the raucous drinking and shouting of 
the Trolls down in the Broadcleave means that no one will 
hear the Ettin roar for help. If the Company tries to ambush 
the Ettin or sneak past it, they must make DC 15 Dexterity 
(Stealth) checks with Disadvantage. Feredrûn’s spell is of 
no use against the Ettin’s tremorsense. Once the Ettin is 
dealt with, the companions may enter the Broadcleave.
6
Harder than Stone

--- PAGE 58 ---
Eriador Adventures
58
Ettin Guardian
Large Giant (Troll-kind)
STR 
21 (+5)
DEX 
8 (-1)
CON 
23 (+6)
INT 
6 (-2)
WIS 
10 (+0)
CHA 
4 (-3)
Armour Class 9
Hit Points 161 (14d10+84)
Speed 20 ft 
Damage Resistances non-magical piercing and slashing 
Senses tremorsense 60 ft, passive Perception 15
Challenge 6 (2,300 XP)
Horrible Strength. If the Ettin makes a successful melee 
attack, it may use its bonus action to cause 5 additional 
damage of the same type to the target.
Two-headed. Ettins with two heads are much harder to 
catch unawares. Any attempts at Stealth are made with 
Disadvantage and the Ettin gains Advantage on both 
active and passive Perception checks.
Actions
Crushing Blow. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 
ft, one target. Hit: 18 (2d12+5) bludgeoning damage. 
Seize Victim (Recharge 5-6). The Ettin may choose to 
spend an action grabbing a creature within 5 feet of them. 
The target is automatically Grappled if it is of Medium 
size or smaller. To escape the Troll’s grasp, the target must 
use an action to escape: they must succeed on a DC 15 
Strength (Athletics) or Dexterity (Acrobatics). If the 
creature fails, it takes 5 bludgeoning damage and remains 
Grappled. An Ettin can seize a number of victims up to 
the number of hands that it possesses, but cannot use 
Crushing Blow if it does not have a free hand.
Captain Mormog’s Speech
The Broadcleave’s valley floor is filled from side-to-side 
with heartily drinking Trolls of nearly every kind (there are 
no Cave-trolls or Snow-trolls). A massive bonfire blazes 
away at the centre of the dale and the smell of roasting 
meat fills the night air. A few hours into the night, the 
thunderous noise of the Trolls drops audibly, as the black-
clad figure of Captain Mormog climbs up onto a large 
stone set before the sheer rock wall at the end of the valley. 
Mormog’s terrible, grim voice carries to every corner of 
the Broadcleave and the companions know they will hear 
it again in their nightmares until the end of their days.
“Brothers, Sisters, yer have et and yer have drank hearty, 
eh? Now harken here. Yer knows from where I came. Yer 
knows who I serve. Long time since last he walked here 
in the North, but here ever his heart flies and with good 
reason. Here are soldiers he favours afore all others. Here 
is the strength of his armies of old! Know this you lot, he’s 
coming back, he is.”
“Weak are the West-lands, gone soft with age. They 
haven’t known strife in a thousand years! Yet yer sit in the 
mountains and grind rock for yer bread. Listen: we have 
many friends in these lands now, men what’s useful for 
more than their flesh. Men to serve yer, keep a sharp eye 
out while yer sleep and more things too. I’ve been busy, yer 
see. Digging places, caves and such, set all about Eriador. 
Secret places where the light of the sun will never touch 
yer, until by the Dark Lord’s will, the sun will come out no 
more ’round here.”
“Time’s soon coming to leave these highlands and take 
back what was yers long afore. Join up with me and yer 
will never want for meat, nor drink. Join with us, and yer’ll 
have plunder the likes of which have not been seen in an 
age!”
Many Trolls throughout the Broadcleave pick up the chant 
of “Mormog!” others yell, “Angmar!”
We Can Take ‘im!
It is possible that some Player-heroes may insist on 
trying to fight Captain Mormog directly. Remind 
them of their mission, and how getting themselves killed 
is not what Elrond meant when he entrusted them with 
the quest. It goes without saying that the companions 
must find a way to confront Mormog away from his 
assembled Troll-army, unless the heroes are planning 
to leave the game messily and before their time. To 
make matters worse, Mormog is always accompanied 
by at least two Hill-troll bodyguards (see page 108 of 
the Loremaster’s Guide).
They will need either the assistance of Imladris, or a 
clever plan to defeat the Captain. If they have allied 
with Feredrûn, subtle heroes might make use of her 
bindings to trick Mormog into coming after them… 
after all, the Hunter is spell-bound to aid the Captain 
against his enemies.
6

--- PAGE 59 ---
59
Captain Mormog
Trolls they were, but filled with the evil will of their master: 
a fell race, strong, agile, fierce and cunning, but harder 
than stone.
Mormog is a member of a new troll-race, bred by Sauron 
himself in recent years, in preparation for his great war. 
They are called Olog-hai in the Black Speech, and are 
stronger and faster than most of the older races.
Olog-hai Captain
Large Giant (Troll-kind)
STR 
24 (+7)
DEX 
13 (+1)
CON 
28 (+9)
INT 
10 (+0)
WIS 
12 (+1)
CHA 
14 (+2)
Armour Class 16 (close-fitting mesh)
Hit Points 154 (11d10+99)
Speed 40 ft 
Skills Intimidation +5, Perception +5, Survival +5
Senses darkvision 60 ft, passive Perception 15
Challenge 9 (5,000 XP)
Hideous Toughness (Recharge after a short or long 
rest). The Olog-hai can endure enormous damage. By 
spending an action reciting words of power in the Black 
Speech, the Captain gains a pool of 10 (3d6) temporary 
hit points that last till the end of the fight if not removed 
by combat damage.
Horrible Strength. If the Captain makes a successful 
melee attack, it may use its bonus action to cause 7 
additional damage of the same type to the target.
Actions
Multiattack. The Captain makes three attacks: two with 
its notched blade and one with its claw.
Notched Sword. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 
5 ft, one target. Hit: 16 (2d8+7) slashing damage (heavy 
two-handed weapon).
Jagged Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 5 
ft, one target. Hit: 9 (1d4+7) slashing damage.
Reactions
Fearsome (Recharge 5-6). The Captain may use its 
reaction when it is struck by an enemy to activate this 
ability. That enemy must make a DC 15 Wisdom saving 
throw. If it fails the saving throw the attack fails and it 
becomes Frightened of the Captain until the end of the 
Captain’s next turn.
Parry. The Captain adds +4 to its AC against one melee 
attack that would hit it. To do so, the creature must see the 
attacker and be wielding a melee weapon.
Slipping Away
If the companions have penetrated the Broadcleave and 
heard about the plans of Mormog, they have probably 
accomplished everything that was in their power to 
achieve. Now it is time to leave, possibly saving their 
skin. The ease with which the Company flees depends on 
the choices they have made so far. If they sneaked into 
the Broadcleave during the day, they will have an Ettin 
to sneak past again or deal with on the way out. If they 
ended up killing the Ettin at any point they might have it 
easier, but within an hour or so from the end of Mormog’s 
speech, one of his Hill-troll guards discover traces of the 
fight while hauling more drink down into the dale…
If the companions manage to completely avoid detection, 
leaving no obvious traces of their presence, they are not 
pursued out of the Ettenmoors.
The Search
If Mormog suspects spies or sniffs trouble for any reason, 
he sends out a hunting party to see what is going on. The 
band consists of a Hill-troll Chief and two Hill-trolls (see 
pages 107-108 of the Loremaster’s Guide). The Company 
is fortunate in that so many Trolls have trampled the 
valley floor that it is difficult to track their flight and if 
they manage to reach the river Hoarwell proper, they can 
disappear by following the riverbed for a while.
6
Harder than Stone

--- PAGE 60 ---
Eriador Adventures
60
In order to escape their trackers, each companion must 
make a DC 15 Wisdom (Survival) or Dexterity (Stealth) 
check. A success earns 1 point of Lead, a success by 5 or 
more earns 2 points of Lead and a natural 20 result earns 
3 points. When the Company has accumulated 8 points 
total, they are so far ahead of their pursuers that the Trolls 
will never catch up.
Each failed check causes the hero to gain a level of 
Exhaustion. If three heroes have failed (and the Lead total 
is less than 8) the hunting party catches them… it is time 
to roll Initiative!
One or more Company members might choose to make a 
last stand, telling the rest to run. If this occurs, those who 
flee automatically escape. Resolve the combat normally; 
those who fight may yet triumph!
Bound by Honour
If the Company made a bargain with Feredrûn, she 
approaches them at twilight in the Ettendales, two days 
after they left the Broadcleave behind. There and then, she 
will remind the companions of their given word, and wait 
for what instructions they will impart her.
The Shadow Is Not Lightly Denied
The adventure as written does not offer a definitive way 
to free Feredrûn of her sorcerous shackles. Here are three 
possibilities, though we recommend you, as Loremaster, 
work the solution into your campaign in the way that 
seems best to you.
• 
Speak to a Wizard about the Binding: Though 
Gandalf the Grey is known in these parts, he has 
no fixed abode and might be hard to locate. Other 
Wizards (such as Radagast or Saruman) are further 
away but easier to locate. Saruman, especially, would 
be interested in Feredrûn’s collar.
• 
There is a Key: Perhaps Mormog possesses a key that 
will unlock the collar, an artefact given to him by no 
less than the Witch-king of Angmar. But where is the 
Captain now and what became of this key?
• 
Secrets of an Earlier Age: Though the magic of 
Imladris keeps her from entering the secret valley, 
Feredrûn knows that there is a power capable of 
defying the Dark Lord hidden in Eriador. Companions 
might plead their case before Lord Elrond and win 
access to the vaults under Rivendell, which are said to 
contain objects from even the Elder Days.
If the Company is successful, a special award should be 
offered to the companions. For example, forever after 
helping Feredrûn, once per Adventuring phase, when 
under a night sky, each character can choose to have 
Advantage on a single roll, to represent the lucky star that 
from that day seems to always shine on their path…
- Epilogue - 
The Black Voice
Escaping from the Ettenmoors with the knowledge they 
sought brings this adventure to an end. When they return 
to Rivendell, Elrond is concerned by the Company’s tidings 
and sends word to the Dúnedain about the Captain’s plans 
for Eriador. The implications of what Mormog said and 
the long-term plans hinted at are even more worrisome. 
Captain Mormog is a villain that the Company may indeed 
have to directly face one day, for he is one of the Shadow’s 
chief agents in the North and a threat to all of Eriador. 
This shape of this retribution is left for the Loremaster to 
customise to fit the direction of their own campaign.
Aftermath
The companions may be asked to carry messages to their 
peoples of Mormog’s threat, especially if their homeland 
is nearby. Other heroes might choose to join the sons of 
Elrond as they venture forth to contain the troll threat.
New Fellowship Phase Undertaking: 
Troll Hunt
A companion that joins the High Elves and Dúnedain 
in pursuing the Trolls of the North might gain valuable 
battlefield experience though often at the cost of their 
health. When this undertaking is selected, the Player-
hero chooses to wager one or more of his Hit Dice. 
Then, for each wagered Hit Die he makes an attack 
roll against AC 15. Each success awards the hero 100 
XP. The hero begins the next Adventuring phase with 
all of the wagered Hit Dice already expended.
7
6

--- PAGE 61 ---
61
- Concerning - 
Archers 
For heroes of level 7 or 8
• 
When: The Company could undertake this quest in 
any spring or summer between 2946 and 2977.
• 
Where: This adventure begins in Rivendell and may 
lead the Company to travel to where Fornost, the city 
of the Kings, once stood.
• 
What: The characters are asked to travel to the ruins 
of Fornost and search for evidence that Hobbits 
participated in a great battle, despite the lack of 
historical records.
• 
Why: Bilbo Baggins is visiting Rivendell and after a 
disagreement with another scholar over the Archers of 
Fornost, he endeavours to settle the matter once and 
for all.
• 
Who: Gishak Gashnaga, an Orc Chieftain from 
Mount Gram, is digging his underground realm under 
the North Downs.
• 
Themes: The necromancy of the Witch-king continues 
to threaten the North and the Player-heroes may learn 
that even the unlikeliest of heroes may defy the Enemy.
Adventuring Phase
This adventure is divided into four parts, from the initial 
encounter in Rivendell to the climactic confrontation with 
an unpredicted threat.
Part One – Riddles in Rivendell
This episode may be presented to the companions at any 
time they are visiting Rivendell. The Company is drawn 
into a scholarly debate between Bilbo Baggins and Lindir. 
Bilbo challenges the heroes to journey to the ruins of 
Fornost to settle the matter once and for all.
Part Two – The Dead and the Lost
In Fornost, the Company begins their search for signs of 
the legendary Hobbit archers. But the land has been long 
under the taint of shadow, and the companions may find 
that the past does not always rest easily.
Part Three – Into Darkness
The companions investigate the Hall of Eärendur, where 
they encounter dangerous and spectral relics from the 
past. 
Part Four – The Last Battle of the Green 
Company
The Company is attacked by Gishak, the Orc warlord 
underneath Fornost. But the companions are not alone, 
and with the aid of Rufus Took and the Green Company 
they can win the day.
Epilogue – Bringers of Tidings
The companions can choose to lay Rufus and his company 
to rest, and to bring what clues and tidings they found in 
their adventure to Rivendell.
The Eye of Mordor
If you are using the optional Eye of Mordor rules 
presented in the Rivendell supplement, any revelation 
episodes during this adventure are likely to revolve 
around the threat posed by the Orc war-band hiding 
under the ruins of Fornost Erain. Suggested revelation 
episodes include Reckless Hate, Deadly Strife, No 
Common Foe or We Come to Kill.
- Part One - 
Riddles of Rivendell
The Company has taken refuge in the house of Elrond. 
Perhaps they are resting here by the leave of Lord Elrond 
following the events of Harder Than Stone, or taking stock 
of their provisions as they cross for the first time from 
Wilderland into the western lands, or any number of 
other reasons.
The Hidden Valley is a place of timeless peace and the 
companions find themselves able to engage in all manner 
of activity while resting, be it the study of books of lore, 
enjoying the many songs woven by Elvish minstrels, or 
simply taking a simple and comfortable nap. Indeed, it is 
the height of the season here and it is as though Rivendell 
Concerning Archers

--- PAGE 62 ---
Eriador Adventures
62
and the very trees of the valley are as one, for even when 
no songs are played in its halls a warm wind carries music 
to all present.
A Conversation Among Friends
As the Company walks past the great Hall of Fire they hear 
raised voices. Like most days, the hall itself sits empty, 
save for two individuals at the far end. To their surprise 
they are not both Elves. A Hobbit of the Shire is visiting 
the Hidden Valley and has engaged himself in quite the 
debate.
“Though Elves may be wise, they do not know all that 
has happened in Middle-earth,” protests a Hobbit from 
a distant corner of the Hall of Fire. Drawn by the raised 
voices the companions see a small figure planted atop a 
stool near the crackling flames of a great hearth carved 
into delicately etched stone walls. He wears a supple shirt 
with gold buttons and a long-stemmed pipe is clenched 
between his teeth, plumes of white smoke rising to 
the ceiling above. In odd contrast to his fine wardrobe 
a patched green cloak rests across his lap beneath a 
collection of aged tomes. His identity is immediately 
obvious to any Hobbit hero, as it is to any Ranger or Elf of 
Rivendell: it is no less than Bilbo Baggins, the companion 
of Thorin Oakenshield! To all others, he is a Hobbit in the 
prime of adulthood, though there is a wry look upon his 
round face. “I tell you, they were there! The Old Took told 
stories of the archers company to me when I was a lad!”
“That does not make it so, Master Hobbit,” comes the 
even and calm reply of a fair Elf in flowing robes of gold. 
“Did you not say that Gerontius Took was known to tell all 
manner of wild stories?”
“That does not make them untrue, Lindir!” The Hobbit’s 
curly hair bounces as he crosses his arms, offering the Elf 
a dour glance. His eyes brighten a bit when he sees the 
companions at the doors of the hall. “Here, I am willing to 
wager others have heard of the Hobbit archers who came 
to the aid of the high king at Fornost in ages past.” Lindir 
turns to gaze upon the Company as the Hobbit eagerly 
motions you to join him.
“Come in, come in! Help settle a disagreement between 
my dear friend Lindir and I.” Bilbo scurries from his stool, 
almost forgetting to set down his cloak and book before 
bowing low, an arm spread across his ample waistline 
and a hand dipped into the pocket of his breeches. “Bilbo 
Baggins, at your service.”
Bilbo explains that he and Lindir were discussing an 
important event in the lore of Hobbits: the fall of Fornost, 
or King’s Norbury, as Hobbits used to call it. Lindir 
interjects, and explains that ancient chroniclers of the old 
kingdom of Arthedain recount how in the year 1974 of the 
Third Age King Arvedui left Fornost at the coming of the 
forces of Angmar to assemble a host on the North Downs. 
Bilbo insists that the Shire sent a company of archers to 
assist King Arvedui while Lindir claims no records exist to 
confirm this, nor has anyone in Rivendell heard of such

--- PAGE 63 ---
63
a thing. Indeed, not even the Rangers tell tales of such an 
event.
Hobbit companions succeeding at a DC 10 Intelligence 
(History) check are able to confirm Bilbo’s version 
(Hobbits with Rhymes of Lore succeed automatically). 
Heroes belonging to other cultures never heard of such a 
thing, unless they had the story related by a Hobbit friend. 
No one is able to recall details on the matter.
A Matter of Pride
Regardless of their provenance, Bilbo invites the 
companions to join in the conversation and share their 
opinions, as they are well-travelled and have undoubtedly 
heard many stories and histories beyond Rivendell. While 
Bilbo is a most learned Hobbit and wise in both Elf-lore 
and Shire-lore, his focus today is singular: the Archers of 
Fornost.
Motivation: I will prove to Lindir that the Shire-folk 
fought for the King!
Expectations: -1 if there are any Elves in the Company 
— Bilbo is frustrated with Lindir at the moment; +1 if one 
or more Hobbit companions are present — surely they 
will confirm his story; -2 if anyone states categorically 
that Hobbits could not have assisted King Arvedui; +2 if 
a non-Hobbit companion puts full faith in Bilbo’s version 
of events.
Introduction
The Company will be expected by Bilbo to share their 
knowledge of the wide world and to show the manners 
valued by all Hobbits, but first they must attend to Shire 
courtesies and small talk. The speaker for the Company 
must make a DC 15 Intelligence (Traditions) check and 
gains Advantage if they open with pleasantries such as 
the weather or their last meal. After the introduction is 
concluded, Bilbo is willing to open up to the true matter 
at hand.
Interaction
A hero proficient in History might make arguments for or 
against the practicalities of the Hobbits sending archers 
to defend Norbury while one proficient in Lore might 
remind all assembled that such tales tend to change over 
time, depending on who is telling the story and to whom. 
A companion proficient in Performance might sing a 
ballad from ages past, while another might use Riddle to 
closely examine Bilbo’s or Lindir’s version of events.
Both Bilbo and Lindir seem to enjoy the debate (Hobbit 
companions might note that Bilbo is much more serious 
about the discussion than the Elf, however). Lindir follows 
the conversation with Elven detachment, only to break 
his poise to make good-natured jests at Bilbo’s expense 
and frustration whenever the Hobbit Archers of Fornost 
are brought up. Any characters who actively take to 
the Hobbit’s defence are warmly thanked by Master 
Baggins, while those who join Lindir in his mockery are 
reprimanded with a scowl. After long discussion, Lindir 
finally tries to bring the matter to a close:
“Regardless of what any of us may believe to be true, 
Master Baggins, it is of little consequence. Without 
evidence to accompany your claims they are nothing more 
than fanciful tales passed down from parent to child.” 
But Bilbo is not defeated yet, especially if he had some 
adventurous Hobbits by his side backing his claims.
 
“I must concede you this, Lindir. Without proof, they may 
just be ‘fanciful tales’, as you call them.” The Hobbit puts a 
finger to his lips in thought for a moment before an impish 
smile slips onto his face. There is a twinkle in his eyes as 
he turns his gaze upon the Company:
“Perhaps a wager is in order! I am willing to bet that 
these valiant travellers will one day make the journey to 
Norbury and might be persuaded to return to tell us about 
their finds!”
Lindir’s face darkens as the Hobbit speaks. “I am not 
sure such a wager is wise, my friend. I do not wish to be 
considered accountable for such a perilous quest.” 
Bilbo waves his hand dismissively, “Nonsense! What do 
you say my friends? Would you dare be part of this very 
unwise endeavour for the sake of an old Hobbit’s pride?”
Confustication and Admiration
If the companions choose to back the wager of Bilbo, they 
take on the task to one day visit the ruins of Fornost, to 
try and ascertain the presence of Hobbit archers at the 
fall of the city. He does not want to press upon a date for 
the completion of the task, but then adds that he is as not 
7
Concerning Archers

--- PAGE 64 ---
Eriador Adventures
64
long-lived as his friend Lindir… maybe some time next 
year?
Have the Company’s spokesperson make a Final Audience 
check (using a skill listed above if appropriate), to 
represent the final agreement and Bilbo’s impression of 
the companions.
Failure: Bilbo is wilfully determined to prove Lindir 
wrong, but the companions do not strike him as sharing 
his enthusiasm. He will offer little support to assist them 
beyond a somewhat churlish encouragement.
Success by 0–2: Bilbo gladly entrusts his wager to the 
Company, giving them 10s each for travel expenses and 
spends the rest of their time together giving hints and 
advice about travelling in Eriador. When the companions 
start their journey, they automatically receive the Paths 
Both Swift and True result on the Embarkation table.
Success by 3–5: The Hobbit digs up a map of the North 
Downs from his belongings, a document he has found 
in the house of Elrond. He gives them 10s each for travel 
expenses and promises more silver for any news or 
artefacts. He entrusts the companions with its keeping, 
saying that they can bring it back when they will return. 
The map allows the Company to start With Hopeful Hearts 
and Clear Purpose on their journey.
Success by 6+: As above, but Bilbo also offers a pouch of 
his beloved Longbottom Leaf (and his third favourite pipe, 
if necessary) to help ease the weariness of their journey. 
See page 156 of the Player’s Guide for more information.
If the Company is reluctant to take up Bilbo’s request 
to explore the ruins of Fornost, then he seems a bit 
disappointed though Lindir eases off a bit. Regardless 
of whether or not the heroes take up this quest, Master 
Baggins asks the party to join him for supper that evening 
so that they might discuss other adventures as a gesture of 
good will and new friendships.
Bilbo and The Ring
While some Players might know that Bilbo has the 
Ring at the time of this adventure, and that he is 
probably carrying it presently, the Player-heroes 
certainly don’t know this, and there are a few things to 
consider. At this period in time, the hold of the Ruling 
Ring on Bilbo is strengthening, but the Hobbit is 
unaware of this growing burden and he does not reveal 
that he carries it to anyone – not even his closest 
friends and relations. Indeed, only Gandalf is aware 
of "Bilbo’s Magic Ring," and the Wizard plays no 
part in this adventure. Moreover, the atmosphere of 
the Last Homely House makes the Hobbit less worried 
about the Ring, and there are no reasons why the 
companions should suspect anything.
Wise Counsel
If the Company spends time in Rivendell after the 
conversation with Bilbo, they realise that word of the 
Hobbit’s wager has spread among the various guests 
of the house of Elrond, whether the heroes accepted 
to be part of it or not. One evening, they are visited by 
Glorfindel, the Elf-lord. If the companions have played 
through Nightmares of Angmar, it is likely that they will 
have met him before, in which case the Loremaster should 
modify the following encounter slightly. Glorfindel comes 
bearing both a warning and a request.
“I have learned that Master Baggins asked you to visit 
Fornost Erain one day, the place Hobbits used to call 
Norbury. It is indeed no merry errand, but it might prove 
to be a necessary one sooner or later. The shadows of 
Angmar lingered long in that region and dark things may 
still dwell upon that land. I was there when Arthedain fell 
to the malice of the Black Captain and I fear that his power 
is growing once more — a shadow lies on my heart.”
Glorfindel asks the heroes to investigate Fornost not 
just because of Bilbo’s wager but because he had a 
vision of dark shadows once again reaching out from 
Angmar, spreading to the Downs. If the Player-heroes 
have completed both Nightmares of Angmar and Harder 
than Stone, it might seem to them that his vision is a true 
one. If the companions say they will visit the place, the 
5

--- PAGE 65 ---
65
Elf-lord asks them to bring him news of whatever they 
might discover in the North Downs, actually expressing 
a measure of haste; even if he cannot better explain the 
reasons for it.
If the characters know or imagine that Glorfindel took 
part in the conflict that saw the fall of Fornost, they may 
ask him about the Hobbit archers that Bilbo claims came 
to Fornost. Unfortunately, his recollections are not useful 
in setting the matter: in his words, that war was long and 
terrible, and he remembers few things of those dark days, 
save the heavy burden placed upon his spirit by the loss 
and destruction brought upon Middle-earth.
Getting to Fornost
Norbury of the Kings is far away from Rivendell… a trip of 
nearly a month, even if the heroes stick to the East Road 
all the way to Bree and then travel up the Greenway to 
Fornost. If they do so, they will have 1d3+3 Journey Events 
and a Peril Rating of 3. There are other, more direct, ways 
there but that means the Company will need to go into 
the Wild. They might even put off fulfilling Bilbo’s wager 
until they are closer, especially if some of the Company 
are from the Shire or Bree.
The standard rules for Journeys in the Player’s Guide, 
supplemented with the additional information in The 
Road Goes Ever On, can be used to fill out the journey 
to Fornost. If you wish to drop hints during the Journey 
Events then the heroes might hear stories of restless spirits 
from other travellers or spy the scouts of Gishak Gashnaga 
in the distance.
- Part Two - 
The Dead and The Fallen
The high hills of the North Downs and the ruins of Fornost 
Erain are described in the Rivendell Region Guide, starting 
from page 61. The broken, moss-covered stones that once 
were the walls and paved streets of the capital city of the 
kingdom of Arthedain lie scattered among the verdant 
knolls and lush hillocks of what local folks now call 
Deadmen’s Dike.
The heroes are most likely approaching the North Downs 
from the south, and they will access the ruined city by 
climbing a great grassy ridge (the ‘dike’). When they are 
done climbing it, they look upon the desolation that once 
was a great city of Men. Fire consumed it centuries ago, 
and the long grass and unploughed soil have buried it, 
leaving almost no trace of its former glory. In places, 
spurs of masonry jut out from the ground, rarely reaching 
to a great height. 
Occasionally, a hole in the ground turns out to be the 
dirt-filled entrance of a greater structure, now sunken 
beneath the ground. Long shadows seem to claw out at 
the companions from hidden places and the chilling air 
carries a dirge that slithers into their ears and down their 
spines.
The Ghostly Voices of Fornost
Although there are dangers aplenty to be found in 
Fornost, one of the most insidious is the sorrow that 
pervades the place. For more information on the danger 
this poses to those who spend the night amidst the ruins, 
see Rivendell Region Guide, page 61.
Exploring Fornost
Searching the ruins for signs of the ancient Hobbit archers 
is no brief task. It will probably take several days for 
the Company to find the evidence that Bilbo seeks. In 
addition, the tragic history of the city still haunts its ruins 
and the area is considered a grievously blighted place. 
Use the following rules:
• 
Each companion may choose to search by making 
a DC 15 Intelligence (Investigation) or Wisdom 
(Perception) checks. Each searching companion can 
make two checks each day.
• 
Each time the Company earns three successes, provide 
them the next entry in Clues from the Past, below. 
• 
If the Company accumulates three failures, challenge 
them with the next entry in the Dangers of the Present, 
below.
• 
Each searching companion must make a Corruption 
Check per day, a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw. A 
failure means the hero gains 1 point of Shadow.
7
7
Concerning Archers

--- PAGE 66 ---
Eriador Adventures
66
Clues from the Past
For every three successful rolls accumulated by the 
Company, the Loremaster reveals one clue from those 
listed below as the result of their search (the items are 
revealed in the order they are presented).
• 
Broken Blades and Bows: The Company discovers 
splintered shards from short swords and the rotted 
remains of bow staves that are smaller than usual. A 
DC 10 Intelligence (History) check recognises that 
they are similar to those of Shire-craft and might have 
been borne by the ill-fated archers.
• 
Torn Banner: In a dark and dry corner of the 
sunken ruins, the companions find a cloth standard 
that is little more than a rotten rag now. It may have 
once been green and had some sigil upon it, but 
the markings have long since faded. Amazingly, the 
nearby staff upon which it once hung is intact, but it 
is only six-feet long.
• 
Tattered Map: This is a simple map of animal skin 
and inked in oil. It is faded, tattered and barely legible, 
but it clearly shows a depiction of Fornost Erain as 
it stood one thousand years ago. There are several 
faded markings towards the centre of the city, along 
with the simple word “tunnels.” (see Part Four – Into 
Darkness).
 
Talandil, Ranger of the North Downs
If the Loremaster wishes to introduce Talandil (the 
self-appointed guardian of Fornost, see Rivendell 
Region Guide, page 60) then the Ranger might 
shadow the Company, trying to learn of their 
intentions in ‘his’ city. 
If a companion rolls a natural 20 on a Perception check 
they will notice the Ranger observing them from some 
hidden place. If he is invited to meet the Company and 
told of their quest he will grow curious. He has never 
heard of the archers but he still endeavours to aid them 
and all further Perception and Investigation checks can 
be made with Advantage.
Dangers of the Present
For every three failures that the companions roll, the 
Company faces an accident or other danger. As the 
exploration of the ruins are similar to a journey, the same 
roles are used.
• 
Wrong Footing: While descending a long and 
winding stairwell in one of the half-buried stone keeps 
of Fornost, the Scout chances across degenerated 
masonry. If the Scout succeeds at a DC 15 Dexterity 
saving throw then all is well, otherwise the hero falls 
40 feet to land at the base of the stairs.
• 
Goblin Scouts: Finding a short-shafted arrow that 
might have belonged to the mythic Hobbit archers, 
the Hunter must make a DC 10 Wisdom (Survival) 
check to recognise it as Goblin-crafted. Otherwise, 
the Company lingers too long and is ambushed by 
Snaga Trackers (two for each hero, see page 101 of the 
Loremaster’s Guide).

--- PAGE 67 ---
67
• 
Echoes of War: While moving through the ruins a 
long, eerie silence falls over the city. There is no sound 
of northern winds or whispers of beasts. Only quiet. 
Slowly, the sound of a great battle rises, seeming far 
off before it draws closer. Eventually, it sounds as if a 
great and terrible fight is occurring all around them 
and then, suddenly, all is quiet again. Each member of 
the Company must make a Corruption Check (DC 15 
Wisdom saving throw) or gain 1 Shadow. If they roll 
a natural 1, they gain 2 Shadow instead.
Archers in the Night
Starting from the second evening of the Company’s 
search, the heroes are beset by mysterious spirits. These 
spectres have long lingered in the ruins of Fornost and 
have been awakened by the return of the Witch-king. Now, 
they have returned from death to put an end to anyone 
trespassing into this once fair realm.
One night, a strong wind rises from the north, suddenly 
howling with a renewed chill. It is so powerful and fierce 
that the companions’ cloaks and mantles are whipped 
about and the campfire is suddenly extinguished. As the 
wind fades, the heroes hear a whistle mingling with the 
evening air. It is high-pitched, sorrowful and fierce. All of a 
sudden, an arrow strikes the centre of the camp, followed 
by a second, and a third. Soon the sky is filled with piercing 
shafts. In the darkness, just at the edge of their vision, the 
companions see small shapes with bright eyes raise their 
bows for a second volley…
These are no hateful spirits of Angmar bound to the 
battlefield. Instead they are the very evidence that the 
Company has sought, though they likely will not yet 
recognize it as such. They are the restless spirits of the 
Hobbit Archers of Fornost who came to serve the High King 
so long ago. They swore an oath to serve King Arvedui 
with all the faith of the Shire and their stout hearts are still 
bound to it – even beyond death. To the companions, they 
appear as little more than small, ghostly forms between 
three and four feet in height, with few discernible details. 
They seem to fade when the Company attempts to look 
closely.
About the Archers of the Green Company
The Hobbit archers attacking the Company are only 
incorporeal shades, and are difficult to harm by mundane 
weapons. As explained in the Rivendell Region Guide, 
Ghosts have a host of resistances and immunities due to 
their nature. Being incorporeal, they also can harm their 
enemies only by supernatural means (see the Harrowing 
Memories section below). The spirits of the Hobbit archers 
can still be encountered in the North Downs because they 
swore an oath to King Arvedui. However, the blight weighing 
upon this land is taking a slow but terrible toll upon them. 
While they have not become servants of the Enemy yet, it 
will eventually happen if they are not put to rest.
Harrowing Memories
The arrows shot by the Hobbit spectres seem very real to 
the companions, and the damage they cause to anyone 
who is hit does not seem to have anything spiritual about 
it!
On the first night they manifest (the second night of 
searching the ruins) the Hobbit archers appear to unleash 
two volleys of arrows on the companions: each hero must 
make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw for each volley, or 
suffer 6 (1d6+3) magical piercing damage as the arrows 
seem absolutely tangible and lethal.
On the second night of apparition, the archers let loose 
three volleys: each companion must make a DC 15 
Dexterity saving throw for each volley. Each failure 
means 6 (1d6+3) magical piercing damage from the 
archers’ Spectral Arrows ability.
On the third night, the Hobbits fire four volleys, with the 
consequences detailed above. With the passing of each 
night, the number of volleys increases by one…
The supernatural origin of the attacks is much clearer 
in the morning though — all that remains of the arrows 
in the light of the sun are a few broken shafts or dented 
arrowheads with no shafts at all. Companions tipped off 
by this may try to set their disbelief against the dangerous 
visions during one of the following nights:
• 
A hero openly stating that he defies the dangerousness 
of the arrow attack may make a DC 20 Wisdom 
saving throw. Upon a success, the hero is considered 
immune to the Spectral Arrows, which now seem to 
pass through him as if he wasn’t there.
During the attacks any members of the Company who 
state they are paying close attention to the spectres may 
8
Concerning Archers

--- PAGE 68 ---
Eriador Adventures
68
make a DC 20 Wisdom (Perception) check. If successful 
they notice that these ghostly archers seem to have round, 
sad faces and their tattered tunics have a spectral green 
colour.
If at any point during an attack the Company makes it 
known that they have any of the artefacts found in the 
ruined city the spirits instantly fade away. Otherwise, 
the spirits let loose their volleys and then retreat into the 
darkness.
Archer of the Green Company
Medium Undead
STR 
1 (-5)
DEX 
17 (+3)
CON 
12 (+1)
INT 
10 (+0)
WIS 
10 (+0)
CHA 
11 (+0)
Armour Class 13
Hit Points 33 (6d8+6)
Speed 25 ft 
Damage Resistances Acid, fire, lightning, thunder; 
non-magical bludgeoning, piercing and slashing
Damage Immunities cold, necrotic, poison
Condition Immunities Charmed, Exhaustion, 
Frightened, Grappled, Paralysed, Petrified, Poisoned, 
Prone, Restrained
Senses blindsight 90 ft, passive Perception 10
Languages Westron
Challenge 2 (450 XP)
Ghost-form. The Archer is insubstantial and cannot 
be easily hurt by normal means. See the damage and 
condition resistances and immunities above.
Incorporeal Movement. The Archer can move through 
other creatures and objects as if they were difficult 
terrain. It takes 5 (1d10) force damage if it ends its turn 
inside an object.
Actions
Spectral Arrows (Recharge 5-6). The Archer targets 
one creature within 90 feet. That creature must make 
a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or suffer 6 (1d6+3) 
magical piercing damage from a rain of seemingly real 
missile fire.
Reactions
Grieve. When the archer reaches 0 hit points, it may use 
its reaction to force each opponent within 30 ft to make a 
DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or experience a harrowing 
sorrow, causing it to gain 3 (1d4+1) Shadow points. If 
the target rolls a 1 on the saving throw, the target is also 
Stunned until the end of its next turn.
- Part Three - 
Into Darkness
Once the companions have found the tattered map they 
have the chance to study it in detail. It is more than just 
a general depiction of Fornost Erain, as it indicates the 
existence of what appears to be a complex of tunnels 
opening under one of the main buildings of the ancient
city, the Hall of Eärendur. 
As they might remember from their conversation with 
Bilbo and Lindir in Rivendell, some stories tell how King 
Arvedui left the city to reach his army assembled in the 
North Downs. It is likely that these tunnels were used by 
the King himself to flee!
Characters who succeed at a DC 20 Wisdom (Perception) 
check notice some markings at a corner’s edge: “Captain 
Rufus T-.”, penned in a simple flowing script…
The Hall of Eärendur
Using the map as a guide (or asking Talandil about it, if he 
is present) the companions are able to locate the Hall of 
Eärendur. It was once the largest palace in Fornost, though 
it fell to ruin long ago. Today, only a great earthen mound 
and a few large white stones covered by moss and thorny 
undergrowth remain. But even as a spectre of its former 
glory, there is still great beauty to be uncovered, as every 
turned stone reveals a broken mosaic, a marble statue, a 
twisting pillar carved with entwining decorations.
A half-collapsed archway that once stood as the grand 
entrance to the hall now leads into the mound. Long 
shadows reach from dark corners, yet faint rays of sunlight 
still peek desperately through the ceiling, where the fall of 
stones have opened holes in the surface of the mound.
There aren’t many paths inside the mound, as the vast 
majority of the palace has crumbled under the combined 
weight of warfare and time, but it is not easy to keep one’s 
direction while under the earth. The companions are often 
forced to push through narrow openings to continue their 
underground exploration, and the chambers they cross 
are revealed to be barren and empty at the light of their 
torches. Eventually, the companions are able to find their 
bearings thanks to the indication on their map, and after 
several wearisome hours of trudging on in the stifling 
darkness they reach the great throne room of Fornost.
7

--- PAGE 69 ---
69
A Little Footpad
When the heroes enter the mound and when they 
reach the throne room make a +5 Dexterity (Stealth) 
check against the highest passive Perception in the 
Company. If the Snaga Tracker fails, the companions 
hear odd noises echoing in the darkness. Anyone who 
makes a Wisdom (Perception) check against the 
Snaga’s stealth roll will see the little sneak hiding 
in the rubble. It is tracking the party on orders from 
Gishak Gashnaga (see page 71). If it is not slain 
immediately, it will Dash into the darkness. If the 
companions follow, it leads them to a larger group of 
Black Uruks (one per hero) and Snaga Trackers (two 
per hero).
The Throne Room of Arvedui
This vast chamber is partially intact, especially compared 
to the rest of the underground hall. The far side of it is 
buried under tons of rubble, but at least half of its length is 
free and relatively untouched. There is a timeless beauty to 
be found in this place: stone pillars reach up towards the 
ceiling hidden by the darkness, and their size and carvings 
remind all onlookers that this was once a place of majesty 
and power. Some light from the surface streams through 
invisible openings and descends upon a raised throne that 
appears as if emerging from the broken stones around it. 
The light bathes it in a reassuring warmth that feels out of 
place in the otherwise bleak surroundings. Its high marble 
back is carved with the image of a single, five-pointed star. 
It is untouched by decay.
A Secret Hoard
If a companion spends Inspiration on a skill check in the 
throne room, she notices how the light seeping through 
an opening on the ceiling briefly rests upon the centre 
of a spiralling mosaic on the floor, to the right of the 
throne of Arvedui. A successful DC 15 Intelligence 
(Investigation) check of the mosaic contours reveals a 
removable slab of marble. Under the heavy slab lies 
a hoard of treasure, hidden there centuries ago by 
men loyal to the King, before they left the city to the 
plunder and ruin of their victors. Golden dishes, cups 
studded with precious stones, lacquered drinking horns, 
bejewelled books and manuscripts, illuminated maps 
and scrolls, and a small armoury of items of worth is 
secreted there, amounting to 100 T**.
On the left end of the room is a stone arch, edged with 
intertwining tree branches that rise to half the height of 
the chamber. A flowing script graces its decorations: 
7
Concerning Archers

--- PAGE 70 ---
Eriador Adventures
70
players making a DC 15 Intelligence (Lore) check or any 
Elves in the Company recognise the language as Sindarin. 
The writing reads “This way rest the Stones of Far Seeing, 
may their watch be ever-vigilant against the Shadow”. The 
arch was once blocked by a stone door that is now lying 
in pieces on the ground, and opens into a half-collapsed 
passageway that used to lead to the Dome of Sight (see 
Rivendell Region Guide, page 61), the chamber where the 
wondrous Seeing Stones of the North-kingdom were kept 
for centuries. Heroes that explore down the passageway 
are soon stymied by the rubble. Despite signs of someone 
working to clear the tunnel it is still blocked.
Unexpected Guests
Moments after the Company deciphers the writing on the 
arch, a chill wind sweeps through the throne room and 
the already feeble sunlight fades into darkness. Several 
Man-shaped forms rise from the shadowy far side of the 
room, spectral and born of darkness. In the eyes of these 
Wraiths of Carn Dûm burns a cold hatred for all things 
living and beautiful, and they wield rusted but wicked-
looking blades, spears and battered shields. They advance 
with a predatory calm towards the Company.
“For Angmar, Our Lord.”
There is one Wraith per hero. They advance slowly but no 
words will stay their desire to kill.
If the companions show the intention of retreating whence 
they came, the wickedness permeating the place makes its 
presence felt in a new form — a cave-in occurs, preventing 
escape from the throne room with a great pile of stone and 
earth. If the Company takes the passage leading to the 
Dome of Sight they are trapped, as the tunnel is blocked 
after a few dozen yards.
There is luckily another way out. A companion possessing 
the Tunnelling trait or the hero with the highest passive 
Perception automatically perceives a feeble draft of air, 
coming from where the Fell Wraiths emerged. Following 
the draft, the heroes find an opening on the far side of 
the hall, partially hidden by the debris. A companion that 
attempts to climb the rubble must make a DC 10 Strength 
(Athletics) check. On a failure the hero tumbles off of the 
unstable stones and takes 3 (1d6) bludgeoning damage. 
Once inside the passage, the heroes are safe from the 
Wraiths: they stop attacking them and disappear.
Wraith of Carn Dûm
Medium Undead
STR 
17 (+3)
DEX 
12 (+1)
CON 
14 (+2)
INT 
10 (+0)
WIS 
12 (+1)
CHA 
9 (-1)
Armour Class 14 (Wraith-like, Shield)
Hit Points 52 (8d8+16)
Speed 30 ft 
Damage Resistances Non-magical bludgeoning, 
piercing and slashing
Damage Immunity poison
Condition Immunities Charmed, Exhaustion, 
Poisoned
Senses blindsight 30 ft, passive Perception 11
Languages Westron, Black Speech
Challenge 3 (700 XP)
Unnatural Vitality. The Wraith can use its bonus action 
to regain 6 (1d12) hit points. It cannot use this ability to 
exceed its normal hit point maximum.
Wraith-like. The Wraith has resistance to all non-magical 
weapon damage. See page 74 of Rivendell Region Guide.
Actions
Long Sword. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 7 (1d8+3) slashing damage or 8 (1d10+3) 
slashing damage if used with two hands.
Spear. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 
5 ft or range 20/60 ft, one target. Hit: 4 (1d6+1) piercing 
damage or 5 (1d6+1) piercing damage if used with two 
hands to make a melee attack.
Dreadful Spells (Recharge 5-6). One foe within 30 feet 
must make a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw. If the target 
fails, it gains 1 Shadow point and becomes Paralysed for a 
number of rounds equal to its current Shadow Point total. 
A Player-hero can spend Inspiration to break this spell.
- Part Four - 
The Last Battle of the 
Green Company
Alone in the darkened passage, the companions 
contemplate their remaining option: they must push 
through the ruined remains of the Hall of Eärendur. 
Luckily for them, the tunnel they have entered leads to the 
passages that King Arvedui used to leave his beloved city 
centuries before. After a few suffocating yards of pitch-
black darkness, the heroes discover a narrow stairwell 
that descends further beneath the city.

--- PAGE 71 ---
71
The descent is difficult, as the stairway is narrow and the 
air is getting colder. Water coats the walls of the passage, 
as if it was inside a well. Finally, the steps lead to another 
passage, cut into the stone bowels of the earth. The 
footsteps of the companions seem to break the hallowed 
peace of a tomb that has remained long undisturbed.
Ambush in the Deep
After what seems like countless hours, the companions 
realise that they must have walked enough distance to be 
somewhere outside the ruins of the city and among the 
hills of the North Downs. After a sharp corner, the narrow 
passage suddenly opens into a cavern of rock, a gaping 
natural chamber large enough that its ceiling and far 
confines stretch beyond the light of the torches. It is dry 
and cold here.
In the flickering light, the companions see that part of 
the floor is littered with bones. These remains belong to 
several different folks: some are smaller, others are larger. 
The smaller bones belong beyond any doubt to at least a 
dozen Hobbit archers: several broken bows and arrows 
are scattered on the ground. The larger remains are clearly 
identifiable to belong to tall Men. Misshapen skulls give 
away the identity of the other remains: Orcs.
Companions that take the time to puzzle over the remains 
may make a DC 20 Intelligence (Riddle) check. A 
success allows the hero to put together all of the clues: 
there were Hobbit archers here and they did swear service 
to King Arvedui. When the King fled Fornost through 
these tunnels, Orcs ambushed them and the Hobbits died 
defending the King’s company, allowing him to reach his 
men in the North Downs. Those that explore the remains 
feel almost as if they hear a melody… distant but rhythmic.
Unfortunately for the companions, not all the Orcs 
around the cavern are dead ones: the war-band of Gishak 
Gashnaga hunts for the Company even now!
A low tittering howl echoes through the cave. From the 
passage through which the Company just came the heroes 
spy the distant flicker of torchlight and hear the sound of 
a large number of scurrying feet. Orcs are searching for 
the companions! If the companions rush in the opposite 
direction, they quickly reach the end of King Arvedui’s 
secret passage.
Who is Gishak Gashnaga?
Gishak is a Great Orc from Mount Gram, first 
introduced in the Rivendell Region Guide, on page 59. 
He came to the North Downs with a small army, but 
his force was destroyed by the Rangers of the North. 
He fled wounded, and hid in tunnels under the North 
Downs, plotting his revenge. He has made his home in 
the abandoned catacombs and tunnels dug under the 
ruins of Fornost, and many have secretly joined him 
there. Recently, his war-band was reinforced with 
Orcs from Mordor — sent by Captain Mormog to seek 
out allies in the North. Now, his forces are extending 
the underground complex of passages with night after 
night of tireless digging. Scouts have noticed the 
company’s intrusion in what they now consider their 
domain, and Gishak is coming to kill them all!
The Northern Valley
The cavern eventually leads into another twisting passage 
that finally opens into a small dale cut deep among rising 
hillsides. There would be a simple peace to be found here, 
if Orcs were not pursuing. The night sky is filled with stars, 
and their light tinges with silver the pines and blooming 
birch trees that flank the sides of the small, green valley.
As the companions take a look around, possibly looking 
for a way out, they realise they are not alone. Each 
companion feels a strange chill run down his spine, or 
feels the hair on the back of his neck stand up. Then, a 
spirit materialises before their eyes. It is a small creature,
barely three feet in height, clad in a simple corslet of green 
leather. Ringlets of hair frame his face and he holds a 
small bow in his hand.
Among the tall grass, bones and broken weapons seem 
to glitter in the starlight, almost as if they are but spectral 
remnants of the past. Here, many Hobbit archers died for 
their King, and now lie unburied, their deed unrecorded 
and forgotten by everyone. A fresh, warm wind blowing 
from the west carries the whisper of a song. It starts as 
a soft, melancholy tune, then it rises to the rhythm of a 
merry marching song. From all around, unseen singers 
call out.
7
7
Concerning Archers

--- PAGE 72 ---
Eriador Adventures
72
Hobbits go marching north to war
The Shire! The Shire!
Longing for our hearth so warm
The Shire! The Shire!
We go to serve and lend our bows
And off to face the northern woes!
And stop the Shadow
Hobbit go marching north!
And slay the darkness
Hobbits go marching north!
Crying aloud with shaft to string
The Shire! The Shire!
The Enemy shall feel our sting
The Shire! The Shire!
Yet we long to turn away
We know the cause to which we stay!
Sing one last song
Hobbits go marching north!
Sing our last song
Hobbits go marching north!
The apparition speaks.
“That is the song we sung, when we came to Fornost in 
the service of King Arvedui. We still sing it, lamenting that 
we will never again see the hills of the Shire. My name is 
Rufus Took, and I was the Captain of the Green Company. 
Long ago, we left our homes in the Shire to come to the 
aid of the King of Fornost, and we gave our lives so that 
he could escape the city. I was the last to fall, here in this 
very place.
“From the day of our passing, we have honoured our oath 
to protect the city of our King. When the Shadow returned 
to Fornost, we were stirred, and arose once again to 
answer the call of battle. We will not rest until the enemy 
is defeated.
 
“But we do not have much time. The curse laid upon 
these ruins by the evil usurper who captured the city long 
ago ever gnaws at our souls, threatening to throw us into 
nothingness, or worse, to draw us into an abyss from where 
we would return only as evil shades, hating the living.
“If you survive this day, search for the bow that I once used 
to fight my last battle, and bring home the words of our 
marching song, so that someone of our blood may sing it, 
and give us rest.”
When Rufus is done with his speech, he nocks a single 
ghostly arrow to his bow and then shoots it into the air. The 
dart whistles as it speeds into the night sky. As the arrow 
disappears, dozens of spectral Hobbit archers materialise 
around the companions – the Green Company has come 
again!
The Coming of Gishak 
The Orcs that were searching for the Company do not 
take much time to locate the heroes, and soon emerge out 
of the cave in battle array. At the forefront is Gishak, a 
huge, ugly Orc with a mis-placed jaw, the consequence of 
his latest encounter with the Rangers of the North. When 
the Orc sees the companions, he points a claw-like hand 
towards them, as if he were attempting to tear out their 
very hearts:
“Who are you filthy trespassers? How do you dare enter 
my domain? I will have your heads for this, or maybe I’ll 
spare you, and flay the skin off your backs with my whip…”
It is in that very moment that the companions discover 
that they are again alone — there is no trace of the Hobbit 
archers!
7

--- PAGE 73 ---
73
Gishak’s Charge
Gishak’s war-band charges into the fray. The enemy 
group is composed of Gishak, a number of Orcs of Mount 
Gram equal to three times the size of the Company and a 
sinister trio of gaunt figures, three sorcerous Hill-men of 
Rhudaur (see Rivendell Region Guide, pages 77-78), plus a 
number of Snaga Trackers equal to the number of heroes. 
The entire troupe is Easily Unnerved, see page 70 of the 
Rivendell Region Guide.
The troupe starts 90 feet away from the heroes and might 
use the shallow slopes or nettle banks of the valley to their 
advantage. Generally, the Orcs (including Gishak) charge 
head-first against the Company, while the three gaunt 
Men and the Snaga Trackers stay back at first. When the 
time is right, each Hill-man will use their Curse of the 
Hill-men ability. Gishak Gashnaga is a Great Orc, see 
page 97 of the Loremaster’s Guide.
An instant before the Orcs crash into the Company, the 
Hobbit archers appear on both sides of the companions’ 
formation, and a volley of ghostly arrows fly into the 
advancing creatures, among their cries of surprise and 
dismay. 
On each hero’s turn, they can activate four Hobbit Archers 
to act as well (see Archer of the Green Company on page 
68). If a hero spends their action to sing the Hobbit song — 
a DC 10 Charisma (Performance) check or a hero can 
use proficiency with a musical instrument instead — then 
all of their Archers recharge their Spectral Arrows ability 
this round without having to roll.
Victory
Once the battle is over, the Hobbit archers disappear one 
by one, leaving only their Captain to face the heroes. The 
Hobbit seems to offer a weary smile and then bows. 
“Thank you for helping us defend the city of our King. 
Now, remember what I asked you, find my bow and give 
us rest”.
 
With these last words, the shade of the Hobbit captain 
fades away as a breeze blows from the West.
 
The Bow of Rufus Took
The companions will need to search almost all of the 
Northern Valley to find the Hobbit’s bow. It requires a 
DC 20 Wisdom (Perception) check to find the right area 
and then a DC 20 Intelligence (Investigation) check 
to locate the magical weapon lying unharmed in the tall 
grass. The grip is wound with leather and fastened with a 
brass tack inscribed with the initials ‘RT’.
When a companion lifts the bow from the place where it 
rested, a lonesome bird seems to sing the first few notes of 
the Hobbits’ marching song.
7
Concerning Archers

--- PAGE 74 ---
Eriador Adventures
74
The Hobbit’s Bow
The bow of Rufus Took is enchanted, made for him 
by an Elf in the Woody End in days long gone by. It 
is possible that once it is returned to Bilbo, it might be 
lent out again, but only to a Hobbit of the Shire.
If a Player-hero is lucky enough to wield the bow, he 
will first discover that it is a Sure Shot and later on 
learn that arrows fired from it are Biting Darts to 
Orc-kind (see pages 135 & 138 in the Loremaster’s 
Guide).
Defeat
If, despite the Hobbit Archers’ assistance, the heroes are 
forced to flee from Gishak’s forces then not all is lost. In 
addition to whatever physical artefacts they recovered 
from Fornost Erain, they have the Marching Song of the 
Green Company. Such a thing won’t prove anything to 
Lindir but Bilbo will be grateful for any bit of lore on the 
Archers of the North Downs.
Once they have rested and are ready, the companions 
can finally leave the ruins of Fornost, and find their way 
home. This journey is not specified, since it is difficult to 
know where the Company might be heading.
- Epilogue - 
Bringers of Tidings
Hopefully the Company has made prior arrangements 
to meet with Bilbo, either in Rivendell or at Bag-end (or 
perhaps another location, such as The Prancing Pony). 
When told about their adventure, the Hobbit is both 
heartened and saddened when he hears the story of the 
Green Company. He takes any recovered artefacts the 
Company shows him for what they are, proof that there 
were Hobbit archers at Fornost at the time of its fall. If 
he is told about Rufus’ song, he questions the Company 
extensively, hoping that they can recite it to him so that he 
may record it. He honours whatever previous promises of 
compensation he made to the Company.
If told about their finds in Fornost, Glorfindel and Lindir 
prove to be much harder to convince, and express a wish 
to study what the companions have found there closely, 
before they may return them to the Shire.
What interests Glorfindel more is news of Gishak, and the 
wraiths encountered by the Company in the throne room 
of Arvedui. His face darkens when the Company speaks of 
the evil they witnessed. He asks them to bring this news to 
Lord Elrond as soon as they are able.
Fellowship Phase
If a Fellowship phase follows this adventure, the characters 
are offered refuge in Rivendell. The Company is invited to 
sit in council with Elrond, Glorfindel and Lindir to discuss 
the dark things that came to Fornost and what possible 
threats could be growing in Angmar.
Otherwise, they might accept another offer: that of 
spending a Fellowship phase at Bag-end, in Hobbiton, the 
Shire…
Bilbo has taken the artefacts of the Green Company to the 
Mathom House in Michel Delving. If the Company joins 
Bilbo, they may even be offered the option to take him as 
a Patron.
The Marching Song of the Green 
Company
A companion may try to reconstruct the March of 
the Green Company by choosing the Write a Song 
Fellowship phase undertaking (see Rivendell Region 
Guide, page 25). The difficulty of the Song roll to 
compose the march is DC 13, as the song is considered 
a Hobbit song (Traditional), and is a marching tune 
(Thematic).
The difficulty is reduced by a further -2 if it is 
composed in Rivendell, or the composer possesses the 
Minstrelsy trait, and by another -2 if Bilbo is helping 
out the companion.
3

--- PAGE 75 ---
75
- The Company - 
of the Wain 
For heroes of level 8 or lower
• 
When: The Company may undertake this adventure 
at any time after the year 2953. It is worthy to note 
that the adventure, being episodic in its presentation, 
may be the object of a single Adventuring phase, 
or otherwise allow the companions to encounter 
the mysterious caravan over the course of several 
Adventuring phases (to make its threat seem more 
pervasive).
• 
Where: On the road along the Greenway, between 
Tharbad and Bree. Because this adventure revolves 
around a group of travelling traders, the Loremaster 
can present it at almost any point along its route. 
• 
 What: The Company of the Wain is an itinerant group 
of wanderers bringing wares and offering services to 
the scattered folk of Eriador. The heroes encounter 
them and witness some strange happenings that may 
raise their suspicions about the real objectives of some 
of its members. 
• 
Why: There are several reasons why the heroes should 
become interested in the wandering traders. The most 
obvious one is curiosity — a travelling company is a 
very unusual sight in Eriador at this time.
• 
Who: The company commander is a woman called 
Uathach of Tharbad. She poses as a blind seer, but she 
is actually in the service of Saruman the Wise. While 
being a servitor to the head of the White Council would 
not make her an enemy of the companions, she has 
been given the task of establishing a secret network of 
spies for the White Wizard.
• 
Themes: Treachery and freedom are the two themes of 
this adventure. The Free Peoples must be able to choose 
their own paths, otherwise they are not truly free. But 
choices always come with consequences.
Adventuring Phase
This adventure is divided into five parts. The first part 
contains a detailed description of the Company of the 
Wain, and can be used to introduce the travelling fair 
before the events of this adventure, if you so choose.
Part One – A Travelling Fair
The Player-heroes first encounter the Company of the 
Wain. As the Company is departing in the early morning, 
they witnesses a suspicious scene. A man with a burlap 
sack tied over his head is being forcibly moved from one 
cart to another.
Part Two – Investigating the Caravan
The caravan is on the road again. The Player-heroes 
might consider their options in dealing with the matter. 
Eventually, the kidnapped man is handed over to two 
mysterious riders.
Part Three – False Accusations
The caravan stops in another settlement, and the Player-
heroes are accused of being brigands. A folk-moot will be 
called, and their voices heard.
Part Four – She Sees, She Knows
When Uathach of Tharbad realises the threat posed by the 
companions she will act to counter their schemes. She will 
rely on her minions, but she may also call upon the direct 
support of her own master…
The Eye of Mordor
If you are using the optional Eye of Mordor rules presented in the Rivendell Region Guide, any revelation episodes 
during this adventure are likely to tie into the machinations of Uathach of Tharbad, or into those of her master, 
Saruman the White. The Company will find communities already turned against them, erstwhile allies will become 
corrupted and the heroes will generally find themselves weighed down from paranoia, if not from the effects of the 
sorcery of Saruman (see also Part Four: She Sees, She Knows).
The Company of the Wain

--- PAGE 76 ---
Eriador Adventures
76
Part Five – When Dark Things…
The investigation of the Player-heroes has attracted the 
interest of a company of Rangers. Their leader, Randír, 
asks the Company to aid him in bringing an end to the 
infiltrations of spies in Eriador.
Epilogue - Fellowship Phase
Sooner or later the companions will stop their 
investigations and draw their conclusions, possibly with 
the help of the Wise.
- Part One - 
A Travelling Fair
The folk of Eriador have dwindled steadily in the last 
centuries (see also Rivendell Region Guide, page 6). In 
recent times, the Fell Winter of 2911 and the subsequent 
floods have taken a heavy toll, and the most southerly 
regions of Eriador have been grievously depopulated. 
Their towns cast into ruin, those few people who remain 
there are huddled into lonely hamlets and isolated 
farmsteads. Traffic on the main roads of Eriador is now 
sparse at best, especially since the bridge at Tharbad has 
been ruined by the floods. All this notwithstanding, the 
old North Road does see the occasional wanderer. Brave 
and hardy travellers keep using the Greenway to bring 
what wares reach the crossings at Tharbad from the South 
all the way to Bree. The Company of the Wain are among 
them, and they travel on that route for months on end, 
from north to south, stopping at every settlement they 
encounter on their way. If no hamlet is in reach, the Wains 
stop at a prominent farmstead, allowing what folk that 
dwell in an area to gather their goods and meet them for 
an improvised fair.
The company is composed mostly of Bree-folk, although 
there are a couple of members from further afield among 
the wagons. Most travel with their family, with sons 
and daughters helping in their trade. Each trader is a 
shareholder in the venture and owns one or more wains, 
which they convert into shops and stalls when they stop. 
There are more than a dozen wains in the caravan at 
any time, either set in a wide ring when encamped, or 
proceeding on the road slowly in a long column, led by the 
wain of their commander, Uathach the Seer, carrying the 
standard of the company: a painted board set on a pole, 
showing a covered wagon with a tent of many colours.
Uathach’s Secret
While not everyone in the Company of the Wain is 
aware of it, the caravan is being exploited by Saruman 
the White for his scheming. The proud Wizard has been 
pushed to do so by his jealousy of Gandalf, and the 
suspicion aroused by the Grey Wizard’s dealings in the 
Shire: starting from the year 2953, Saruman sets 
spies to watch upon the actions of the Grey Pilgrim, 
and soon resolves to keep agents in Eriador.
The Company’s commander is a capable means to 
this end. Though she travels under the guise of blind 
Uathach of Tharbad, she isn’t actually blind at 
all, and hails from far beyond the river Greyflood. 
She was in fact born in the port-city of Umbar, and 
Númenórean blood runs in her veins. She came to 
Gondor many years ago, and met Saruman in Minas 
Tirith during one of his frequent visits, and entered his 
service.
Uathach has been prepared for this mission by the 
White Wizard himself: her goal is to enlist more men 
to his cause. These agents must answer to Uathach, 
either by reporting any unusual occurrences they would 
chance to witness, or even by assuming the roles of 
travelling traders and vagabonds and accumulating 
information about the dwellers of Eriador, the deeds 
of the Rangers and the movements of Gandalf.
The presence of Uathach in the Company of the Wain 
ensures that she can quickly receive any tidings from 
her informants, and that she can readily send messages 
to her master. Moreover, the activities of the caravan 
ensure to draw attention from her dealings. The 
Company travels according to her whims, taking her 
to agents she must pass messages to, or to settlements 
she must watch.
Uathach is a tall woman, handsome and well built, 
with a bearing betraying her noble descent. But she 
plays the role of the blind diviner convincingly, her grey 
eyes helping her greatly in making the ruse a believable 
one. Everyone in the caravan pays her respect, more out 
of fear than out of respect for her wisdom.

--- PAGE 77 ---
77
The Company of the Wain
The wagons sell the goods and provide the services 
described on the following pages. If you like, you might 
allow several other wains to carry more mundane items. 
The Company of the Wain trades with farmers and hamlet-
folk, however, and is unlikely to have any exceptional 
items other than the ones listed below. Normal items 
listed with a cost in silver pennies or copper coins might 
be had, see pages 152-153 of the Adventures in Middle-
earth Player’s Guide.
Joining the Company of the Wain
You might choose to have one of the Wise already suspect 
Uathach and her company, perhaps due to reports from 
Randír or other Dúnedain. If so, the companions might 
be tasked with infiltrating the travelling fair, posing as 
merchants with a cart of their own. If they do so, it will take 
weeks or months for the others to trust them and they may 
have to endure many dark days until they gain the first 
proof of Uathach’s treachery (see The Bound Man, below).
If the heroes travel with the Company of the Wain then 
they are not in command of the caravan. To represent the 
rigours of the Road, you will still make an Embarkation 
Roll whenever the Company leaves Bree or Tharbad and 
an Arrival Roll when they reach the opposite destination. 
But the companions do not affect these rolls: they are not 
responsible for planning the route or any stops along the 
way.
The group still generates Journey Events during the trip, but 
the heroes are not required to face individual challenges. 
In fact, a Player-hero must spend Inspiration in order to 
be the chosen representative of the Company of the Wain. 
Otherwise, one of the Loremaster characters will solve the 
problem in an unremarkable way. If the companions do 
not participate in half or more of the total Journey Events 
for a trip, they do not earn any Experience Points for that 
journey (except for victory in combat).
Caradog, the Bear-baiter
A large cage of wood and iron sits on a large wagon, empty 
except for straw laid across the floor for bedding. Outside, 
a bear chained to a thick pole set into the ground ‘dances’, 
a thin rope looped through a hole cut cruelly into its snout. 
A short man with long hair directs the animal’s dance with 
what looks much like a fishing pole with the rope attached 
to the end. As he twists, lifts, and dips the stick, the bear 
stands on its hind legs, bends or turns around, affecting a 
crude ‘dance’. A crowd stands in a semi-circle around the 
bear, jeering and laughing.
The wiry little man is called Caradog. A hunter from 
Dunland, he doesn’t talk much, and is gruff and curt if 
approached. He will only talk about how he trained the 
bear if offered a drink or a gift. 
Caradog is a minion of Uathach. He provides one of the 
shows needed to draw customers to the stalls and counters 
of the merchants. He is a violent, cruel man, capable of 
inflicting suffering upon animals as well as any other 
living creature without any regret or remorse. He speaks in 
a growling tone, and seems to understand the mewlings 
of his tormented pet.
The Company of the Wain

--- PAGE 78 ---
Eriador Adventures
78
Caradog, Dunlending Hunter
Medium Human (Evil Men)
STR 
15 (+2)
DEX 
12 (+1)
CON 
14 (+2)
INT 
10 (+0)
WIS 
13 (+1)
CHA 
9 (-1)
Armour Class 13 (Leather corslet)
Hit Points 45 (7d8+14)
Speed 30 ft 
Skills: Intimidation +1, Perception +3, Survival +3
Senses passive Perception 13
Languages Dunlending, Westron
Challenge 1 (200 XP)
No Quarter. When Caradog reduces an enemy to 0 hit 
points that enemy is considered to already have failed one 
death save. 
Wild Onset. Caradog can use his bonus action to impose 
Disadvantage on his attack roll. If he succeeds anyways 
add +4 to his damage roll.
Actions
Great Spear. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 10 ft, 
one target. Hit: 8 (1d12+2) piercing damage.
Reactions
Parry. Caradog adds 2 to his AC against one melee attack 
that would hit him. To do so, he must see the attacker and 
be wielding a melee weapon.
Traps
A second cart is attached to Caradog’s wagon. A cruel 
display of iron traps hangs from its rafters. The traps 
range in size; some look large enough to have been built to 
catch an animal as large as a bear, others for prey as small 
as a hare. All have a plate used as a trigger and spikes 
about the maw designed to hold its ward indefinitely. No 
merchant is present at this cart, as the traps belong to 
Caradog. The Dunlending can be convinced to part with 
one or two traps if the prospective customer can make 
a DC 15 Charisma (Intimidation or Persuasion) or 
Intelligence (Traditions) check. 
There are two trap sizes on offer… the first is a normal 
Hunting Trap. A creature that steps on the plate must 
succeed on a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw or take 1d4 
piercing damage and stop moving. Thereafter, until the 
creature breaks free of the trap, its movement is limited 
by the length of the chain (typically 3 feet long). A creature 
can use its action to make a DC 13 Strength check, freeing 
itself or another creature within its reach on a success. 
Each failed check deals 1 piercing damage to the trapped 
creature. 
The second is a larger version of the first. It causes 1d6 
piercing damage when triggered, requires a DC 15 Strength 
check to free the trapped creature and causes 1d4 piercing 
damage on a failed check.
The price for the Large Hunting Trap is 10s, the regular 
Hunting Trap is 5s.
Áinfean, the Apothecary
A collection of odd glass bottles and 
charms are displayed on shelves on 
this wagon. The bottles are labelled with 
strange symbols and filled with substances 
stranger still. Áinfean, a middle-aged 
woman with fiery red hair kept in two 
plaits attends the wares, ready to explain 
the benefits of her concoctions if asked to. The goods she 
offers are all actually quite effective, giving away the 
great lore that Áinfean possesses. But if anyone shows a 
learned interest, Áinfean is quick to belittle her own craft, 
dismissing her work as no more than rustic remedies of 
dubious effectiveness.
This is what Áinfean has on her shelves (in brackets are 
the effects of each remedy): Sundew Tea (cures coughs, 
strengthens the heart and alleviates stomach pains), 
Greenleaf Tea (facilitates digestion), Tincture of Lebethron 
Bark (helps babies and children sleep), Yellow-flower 
Infusion (improves mood), Witch Milk (diuretic, helps 
treating infection) and Elderberry Cordial (helpful in treating 
fevers, and help impaired breathing). All of the remedies 
cost 5s or less, except for the Yellow-flower (see below).
A Player-hero with the Herb-lore trait automatically 
recognises the Yellow-flower Infusion as golden moly, a 
type of lily supposedly capable of strengthening a person’s 
power to resist sorcery. Only one sample of this infusion is 
available, and the apothecary demands 3 gold pieces for 
it (the price of a riding horse!). The draught lets a single 
companion gain Advantage on any saving throws made 
against magical effects for the duration of the Adventuring 
phase.
Áinfean’s real speciality is the mixing of poisons. Learned 
in her upbringing among the covens of the Hill-Men of

--- PAGE 79 ---
79
Rhudaur, she is quite skilled and able to easily estimate 
the amount and method of application for nearly any 
creature. Uathach has used her talents to great effect, 
poisoning several men who posed obstacles to her designs. 
Del’s Dwarven Spirits
Del Thistlewool is a vendor originally 
from Combe. The tall, ruddy man loudly 
proclaims the virtues of his product, 
which he calls ‘Dwarven Spirits’. He 
claims he forged a strong friendship 
with Dwarven wanderers from the Blue 
Mountains, and that he gained their 
permission to sell their secret beverage 
to the Men of Eriador. His bottles are displayed on a 
table outside his cart, their labels illustrated with a crude 
drawing of Dwarven ghosts pursuing a hapless drunkard. 
He asks 10s for a bottle, but allows himself to easily be 
talked down to half that price.
The Breeman’s wares are displayed on a table in the open 
air. He will provide a single free sample, but will attempt to 
avoid doing so near a Dwarven Player-hero. A Dwarf will 
recognise on taste that these spirits are not of Dwarven 
origin, and may take offence accordingly. Del’s liquor is 
in truth a potent beverage he himself distils in a travelling 
still, a crude copper kettle hidden inside his cart.
Uathach the Seer
Animal bones and stones inscribed with symbols of portent 
swing from a tent erected beside this cart. Exotic smells waft 
from the curtained entrance, inviting passers-by to enter 
and learn about what the future may hold for them.
Inside, a woman in her thirties clad in voluminous robes 
and silks sits on the corner of a rich carpet woven with 
strange markings, her head covered with a black veil. The 
woman presents herself as Uathach of Tharbad, as she 
lifts her veil to reveal her vacant grey eyes for dramatic 
effect. She lost her sight in the practice of fire-gazing, a 
form of divination she learned in the far South, she says.
Uathach volunteers to read the fortune 
of one companion, for a single gold 
piece. She asks the chosen hero to hold 
out his right hand. Then, she grasps 
the outstretched hand in her left hand, 
and asks the companion to pose her a 
question. Pretending to be directed by 
the hero’s voice, Uathach stares without 
ever blinking right into the eyes of the companion for 
several long minutes. Then, she releases her grip with a 
sigh, and closes her unsettling eyes. Slowly, her response 
arrives in the form of short, whispered sentences: the 
Loremaster must provide a cryptic answer to the hero’s 
question to the best of his ability, trying to suggest some 
actual power, but without actually crossing over into the 
supernatural — Uathach is not gifted with foresight, she is 
simply very cunning.
Any companion who spends some time observing the 
woman during the reading may make a DC 16 Wisdom 
4
The Company of the Wain

--- PAGE 80 ---
Eriador Adventures
80
(Insight) check; if the roll is successful, the hero finds her 
fortune telling to be very suspicious. If the hero succeeds by 
5 or more, the companion starts to even doubt Uathach’s 
blindness. If confronted with this information, Uathach 
flares with indignation, and chases the companions out 
of her tent.
Uathach, Treacherous Fortune-teller
Medium Human (Evil Men)
STR 
11 (+0)
DEX 
14 (+2)
CON 
13 (+1)
INT 
15 (+2)
WIS 
13 (+1)
CHA 
19 (+4)
Armour Class 12 (or 16 if she wears her Scale hauberk 
under her robes)
Hit Points 60 (11d8+11)
Speed 30 ft 
Skills Deception +7, History +5, Insight +4, Lore +5, 
Perception +4, Persuasion +7 
Senses passive Perception 14
Languages Adûnaic, Dunlending, Westron
Challenge 5 (1,800 XP)
Bandolier of Knives (Recharge 4-6). As a bonus action, 
Uathach can hurl a cluster of small blades at any opponent 
within 10 feet. The target must make a DC 15 Dexterity 
saving throw or suffer 6 (1d6+3) slashing damage.
Actions
Poisoned Knife. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 
5 ft, one target. Hit: 4 (1d4+2) piercing damage and the 
target must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw 
or become Stunned until they complete a short rest. If 
this attack causes the target to reach 0 hit points and the 
saving throw is failed, it is killed outright.
Reactions
Commanding Voice. Uathach can inspire her allies with 
veiled threats and warnings of deep import. She may use 
her reaction to utter a command or shout a warning when 
a non-hostile creature, that she can see within 30 feet, is 
about to make an attack roll or a saving throw. The target 
can add a d6 Command Die to that roll, provided it can 
hear and understand the message. A creature can benefit 
from only one Command Die at a time, and creatures that 
possess Commanding Voice cannot benefit from this effect.
Shell Game
A group of men play a game with a small round stone 
the size of a pea and three walnut shells set upon a table. 
A lanky fellow with a big nose and wearing a black felt 
cap dexterously shuffles around the three walnut shells, 
challenging the onlookers to guess under which shell the 
pea-sized stone might be. Several individuals wager a coin 
or two, and eventually most lose their money grumbling, 
but some seem to win each round. Eyeing the companions, 
the tablemaster invites them to play with a gesture.
If the companions feel themselves to be more clever than 
the tablemaster, they are welcome to make a DC 15 
Wisdom (Perception) check to play the game. While he 
might allow a hero to win a a round or two, the game is 
ultimately unwinnable, as it is just a trick devised to make 
easy money — the tablemaster can place or remove the 
stone from under any shell and thus win at any time, and 
the onlookers are shills backing the act. The Loremaster 
may let the companion play the game, but to no avail: 
a hero gullible enough to fall for the trick is encouraged 
to make ever increasing wagers, only to lose all their 
‘winnings’ when the tablemaster is convinced that he has 
made a good score. 
If the heroes realise and try to expose the ruse they will 
eventually confront the tablemaster with an accusation. 
When this happens, all the onlookers will drop their 
façade and threaten the Company with violence. There 
are twice as many Thugs as heroes, plus the tablemaster 
(an Outlaw).
Theldred the Rider
In the centre of the caravan, a 
talented horseman performs. He 
rides inside an area bound within a 
circle of wooden stakes, showing off 
his ability with the sword and spear 
from horseback, and conducting 
assorted feats of extraordinary 
horsemanship that cause his crowd 
of onlookers to cheer and gasp. He directs his horse with 
a series of grunts and groans rather than commands, 
which seems strange until he smiles widely at the crowd, 
displaying a tongue cut at its root. 
The rider’s name is Thelred (see Part Four - She Sees, She 
Knows for a complete character description). He comes 
from the land of Rohan to the south; any Player-hero from 
the same land might recognise his name if they make a 
DC 15 Wisdom (Lore) check. They will remember some 
feud that led to his banishment, but in the days of Fengel 
King not all that were punished were guilty and not all that 
were guilty were punished.
4

--- PAGE 81 ---
81
Terry’s Menagerie
Two carts filled with small 
wooden cages display various 
animals: stoats, a litter of field-
hares, a tailless fox, and several 
varieties of tortoise and snake. 
A large thrush, dark brown 
with a yellow-speckled breast 
and belly, flitters in an iron cage, singing sweetly. Children 
crowd about the cages, gawking and carrying on loudly. A 
dark-haired Hobbit from Archet by the name of Terry Banks 
uses his wide-brimmed hat to collect offers.
If a companion with the Beast-lore trait or an Elf approaches 
the bird, his song takes on a livelier tone. It repeats the 
same cry, and heroes can spend Inspiration to understand 
what it says: “Set me free, and I shall serve you faithfully 
for one year.” The bird understands what is said to him in 
the Common speech, and speaks the tongues of crows and 
eagles. If the heroes get interested, Terry senses something 
strange afoot, and attempts to get as much as possible from 
the purchase, asking the outrageous sum of 2 gold pieces for 
the bird. On a successful DC 13 Charisma (Persuasion) 
check, his price can be bartered down to 1 gold piece.
The thrush will serve his new owner for one year, or more 
if a bond of friendship is developed. The bird flies at an 
average speed of 20 miles per hour, up to a maximum of 
100 miles per day. It cannot carry any items over long 
distances.
The Wose
A very unusual creature sits still in 
a cage, different from anything the 
companions have seem before. It 
is a short-legged, squat shape of a 
man, almost completely naked but 
for a leather cloth about his waist. 
He stares straight ahead, with dark, unflinching and 
unblinking eyes, set deep in a flat face. Several children 
attempt to break his reverie by poking and tossing small 
items at him, as his keeper, Morton, a squint-eyed Man 
of Bree, laughs and addresses loudly any passers-by, 
inviting them to come see “the man-eating Wild Man of 
the South”.
This man is a Wose, a Wild Man of the Woods. He is 
treated like a beast by his keeper, cruel Morton, and will 
not communicate from inside the cage whatsoever (but 
will aid the Company if freed: see Freeing the Captives on 
page 84).
Osbert the Woodturner
An old-looking man with a curved 
back works a strange contraption 
outside his cart. His name is 
Osbert, and he sits operating a 
foot-pedal attached by a rope to a 
springy pole overhead. The moving 
rope turns a spindle in front of the 
craftsman, and attached to the spindle is a piece of wood. 
The man uses a sharp tool, similar to a chisel, to shape 
the rotating piece of wood. In just a few minutes and the 
application of several skilful strokes, the craftsman has 
fashioned a long handle for a smithing hammer. This is 
carried inside the cart by a girl of no more than 10 years, 
where other spun wood items are displayed.
A Player-hero can commission the craftsman to make 
a tool that requires a wooden shaft – a walking staff, a 
fishing spear, a hammer haft, and so on (the man is no 
weaponsmith) for the cost of 2s. The item will take the 
better part of the day to fashion, requiring the companion 
to return to pick it up before nightfall, as the caravan 
leaves at dawn. The item gives the owner a bonus of +1 
to all checks made using an appropriate skill (Survival or 
an appropriate Tool proficiency, but not attack rolls); the 
modifier is applied until the hero improves his Proficiency 
Bonus: when this happens, the crafting bonus is lost.
Larry’s Fireworks
A bright-eyed old man from Combe 
named Larry Appledore sits on a 
stool beneath a tarpaulin rigged to 
the roof of a cart. Wooden boxes, 
barrels and crates sit around him 
filled with strange tubes and parcels 
wrapped in paper. Only a few folk 
pass by his cart, pausing briefly before moving on with 
worried or suspicious expressions on their faces.
Any Hobbit, Barding, Man of the Lake or Dwarf, or even 
anyone with the Folk-lore trait, will know the tubes and 
parcels are in fact fireworks. Interested companions may 
purchase a firework suitable for one use for 1 gold piece. 
See Using Fireworks in Battle overleaf.
1
The Company of the Wain

--- PAGE 82 ---
Eriador Adventures
82
Larry is a friend of Gandalf. He owes his business to the 
old conjurer, who taught him a trick or two about the 
manufacturing of fireworks. Unbeknownst to Larry, he is 
a valuable source of information for the Grey Wizard, who 
likes to chat with him in front of a pint from time to time. 
Larry has joined the Company of the Wain only recently, 
and does not suspect anything. He hasn’t seen Gandalf 
since he joined the caravan, so the old Wizard does not 
know he is there.
Using Fireworks in Battle
Inventive (or desperate) heroes might wish to employ 
fireworks against their enemies. It is up to the 
Loremaster’s discretion but three possible rulings 
might be:
• 
A firework can be launched at a foe within 60 
feet. The hero must make a Dexterity attack roll 
at Disadvantage. The firework does 7 (2d6) fire 
damage, but if the attack roll is a natural 1, the 
damage is applied to the hero instead.
• 
A firework can be employed as a distraction. 
Enemies within 30 feet of the firework must 
make a DC 10 Wisdom saving throw or have 
Disadvantage on their attack rolls until the end of 
their next turn. 
• 
Fireworks might trigger an adversary’s Fear of 
Fire if they are within range.
Wilma’s Furs
Wilma is a sunburnt lady in her 
forties who has wandered across 
Eriador all her life. She claims to sell 
genuine furs she bought from the 
“Snow-folk of the Northern Wastes”. 
Coats both short and long, boots, 
hats and mittens are displayed. A young boy, possibly 
her son, is dressed in a full set as a walking display. His 
costume looks to be keeping him exceedingly warm, to his 
chagrin. 
A Player-hero can be fully outfitted for 2 gold pieces. If 
the Company is equipped with Wilma’s furs they do not 
increase the Peril Rating for a journey taken in wintery 
conditions (see page 166 of the Player’s Guide) but they 
look so outlandish that they have Disadvantage on the 
Introduction check for most Audiences while so attired.
Lodin the Toymaker
This cart is filled with toys that 
would make any child giggle with 
delight. There are wooden horses, tin 
soldiers and straw dolls, all painted 
colourfully. However, the fellow that 
occupies the cart seems ill-fitting to 
be a toymaker. Lodin, a craftsman 
from Lake-town, is dour and gruff, 
and unpleasant to any who bother him. He travels alone, 
as he was forced to leave his family in Esgaroth on a 
matter of debts.
The Adventure Begins
The adventure begins when the heroes visit the Company 
of the Wain for the first time. The caravan can be met 
anywhere along the Greenway, headed north for Bree, or 
south for the Crossing of Tharbad (Loremaster’s choice). 
The companions might just stumble upon it by chance 
during one of their journeys across Eriador, or they may 
have heard something about the travelling fair from other 
wanderers and decided to find out what it is all about.
The Wain Ring
The caravan has just mustered in the proximity of a village 
or farmhouse, and the traders are busy setting up their 
camp and the various distractions and entertainments. 
The wagons, approximately a dozen, are set in a large 
circle. The folk of the settlement begin perusing the offered 
wares, some returning with exotic goods, but all returning 
with tales of sights and spectacles not often seen in 
Eriador.
The Loremaster should let the companions explore the 
caravan freely, referring to the description of the Company 
of the Wain and its denizens offered in the above sections. 
The interaction with the various Loremaster characters 
should be enough to take a good part of a gaming session, 
and a full day for the heroes.
The wains do not offer lodging for the night, so the 
adventurers will probably look for a place to sleep in the 
immediate surroundings. It is very convenient to set up 
camp close to the ring of wagons.
4

--- PAGE 83 ---
83
The Bound Man
The morning after their first visit, one companion 
awakens to see figures shrouded in the mists bustling 
about the wains, preparing the caravan for departure. 
Many wagons are already slowly making their way to the 
road. A break in the tumbling fog reveals a strange sight — 
a figure, hands bound and head covered completely in a 
burlap sack, is being rushed from one wagon to another. 
Almost immediately thereafter, the last wagon begins 
moving to reach the Greenway.
- Part Two - 
Investigating the Caravan
There are several reasons why the companions might 
choose to know more about the caravan. They will 
probably want to investigate the fate of the bound man, but 
they might be worried about the caged Wose, or even care 
for the mistreated bear (especially if there is a Beorning 
in the group). This section assumes that the heroes have 
not infiltrated the Company of the Wain in the guise of 
merchants and thus are outsiders. What they can choose 
to do is to follow the caravan, to eventually employ stealth 
or even attack the Company of the Wain. Eventually, the 
Loremaster will further the plot by proceeding to the The 
Captive is Handed Over on the following page.
Following the Caravan
Whatever their objective, the heroes may choose to follow 
the caravan openly or covertly.
Following Openly
If they choose to follow openly the Player-heroes will 
be unmolested, but the the caravan’s defences will 
immediately be considered to be alert for the purpose of 
attacking or sneaking into it (see below).
Following Covertly
If they choose to follow covertly, each day the Company 
must make a group Dexterity (Stealth) check. The 
Difficulty starts at 13, and goes up by 2 for every day of 
pursuit. If the group check is failed, then use the rules for 
following openly, above.
Sneaking into the Caravan
Infiltrating the caravan unnoticed requires each sneaking 
hero to make a DC 20 Dexterity (Stealth) check during 
the day, or a DC 15 check at night. If the caravan is alert 
(see Following the Caravan, above) then these checks are 
made with Disadvantage. If the Company fails to enter the 
circle of wains undetected, the guards on duty intervene 
(see Attacking the Caravan, overleaf).
If the heroes penetrate the camp successfully, they can 
spy on the wagons and their occupants, or attempt to free 
the Wose or the bear. The Loremaster may ask for further 
checks, should the heroes take actions that run the risk of 
being discovered (for example, freeing the captives). The 
information gathered during this investigation is left to 
the Loremaster, based on the description of the caravan 
given at page 76 onwards.
The Wose
The Wild Man was given two years ago to Uathach 
as a gift from the White Wizard himself, to be put on 
show as an attraction. He has spent every day since 
that time in fetters. He hasn’t uttered a word since 
that day, and interacted minimally with his captors 
or the audience he was presented to. He is grateful to 
anyone who frees him, but his suspicion of any Man 
prevents him from speaking or giving his name to 
anyone. If presented with gifts, he refuses, showing no 
interest in clothing, weapons or treasure of any sort. 
He will gladly accept food. He communicates with 
gestures, and the companions require a Riddle check 
to understand complicated information (for example, 
the habits of the members of the Company of the Wain 
(DC 20), or the number of guards they have (DC 10), 
or the Wild Man’s origins (DC 30)). He knows he was 
captured by servants of Saruman, but he is too afraid 
of the Wizard’s sorcery to even think of revealing such 
information.
If invited to remain with the companions, he stays for 
thirty days, less the total amount of Shadow points 
among all the heroes. As long as the Wild Man is in 
the Company, all heroes have Advantage when making 
Perception or Survival checks. Additionally, the Wild 
Man alerts the Company automatically of the presence 
of Orcs, being able to scent them from a day away – 
when this happens, he speaks, shouting a single word as 
a warning: "Gorgûn!".
4
6
The Company of the Wain

--- PAGE 84 ---
Eriador Adventures
84
Freeing the Captives
The companions might want to free the Wild Man or 
the caged bear because they have been moved to pity, 
or maybe because they are need information (from the 
Wild Man) or need a distraction (by unleashing the bear 
on the caravan). Both captives’ cages are locked: opening 
them require a DC 15 Dexterity check (heroes with 
Thieves’ Tools add their Proficiency Bonus). Getting to the 
respective cages unnoticed requires another Stealth check 
with the same difficulty as given above.
If the Wose is freed, he will follow the Player-heroes and 
pledge to serve the Company for a while (see the box on 
the previous page).
If the bear is freed, the companions have only a few 
moments to get away from the cage before the animal 
leaves it. At this point, the tormented creature will roar 
savagely at any person standing between it and its 
freedom, and then trample them. If the companions stay 
clear of its path, the bear will probably destroy Caradog’s 
wain, before it makes a beeline for the closest woods.
Attacking the Caravan
There are at least two-dozen fighting men among the 
members of the Company of the Wain (mostly Thugs 
and Outlaws), so it is rather unlikely that the heroes 
will ever consider attacking it. Not to mention the moral 
implications of such an aggression against a group mostly 
composed of innocent traders… 
During the day, calls for alarm are carried through the 
caravan quickly, causing it to stop soon after. At night, 
the caravan camps by arranging the wagons in a ring, 
using them as a fortification. The merchants camp inside, 
bringing in all the horses and mules and building a large 
fire. Attackers from outside the ring find themselves in 
difficult terrain as the wains are close together with many 
awnings, ropes, posts, barrels, boxes and animals in their 
way. However, the defenders know their way around and 
are not hampered.
Setting fire to the wagons is impractical as they are not 
easily set aflame and any fires that are started are quickly 
put out.
In the case of any attack, every able-bodied member 
rushes to the battle in a few instants, arriving in successive 
waves of two or three armed Thugs and one Outlaw every 
round (twice as much if the caravan is alert, see Following 
the Caravan above). If the threat is an organised group 
(such as a company of heroes!) the defenders will instead 
assemble first, and then rush the attackers.
The Captive is Handed Over 
A couple of days after the Company encountered the 
caravan the traders stop for the evening and make camp 
just before dusk (the Loremaster chooses the precise 
location, based on whether the Company was travelling 
north or south). Soon after, three riders leading a fourth 
horse arrive at the camp. They are black-haired and wear 
travelling clothes of mud-spattered leather, and they stay 
for the evening, guests of Uathach. 
Should the Company wish to investigate more closely, they 
may learn the riders are Men from Dunland. They look to 
be of the capable sort, and carry weapons. One carries a 
great axe with a long haft, the others long spears. 
If unmolested, the Dunlendings leave the camp at dawn, 
tossing the bound man over the extra horse, and depart 
at the same time as the caravan. The men ride south with 
haste. Should the Company wish to follow them, they will 
find themselves quickly outdistanced, unless they are on 
horseback themselves.
If the companions wish to follow them on foot, they must 
travel through the night, hoping that the riders won’t 
do the same. Every companion must make a DC 15 
Constitution saving throw or gain a level of Exhaustion.
Forced March
The Company can also press themselves, and march for 
more hours each day than they would otherwise dare. 
If the companions undertake a forced march, they halve 
the duration of each leg of a journey (round fractions up). 
The same number of Journey Events occur, but the heroes 
cannot benefit from any rests while in a forced march.
• 
For every day spent in a forced march past the first 
one each hero must make a DC 15 Constitution 
saving throw. On a failure, the hero gains a level of 
Exhaustion. The Company can stop the forced march 
at any time, see Interrupting Journeys on page 59 of 
the Loremaster’s Guide.
4
6

--- PAGE 85 ---
85
The Dunlendings
Whether on horseback or by forced march, a pursuing 
Company catches up with the riders just before the next 
dawn. They see four bodies lying wrapped in bedrolls; it 
is not possible to distinguish which is the bound man. 
If the companions wish to attack and succeed in taking 
the Dunlendings by surprise they are unable to don their 
armour, and use the secondary value in brackets.
The Dunlendings are canny, hardened warriors. They 
make their way to the horses, and use them as cover 
against both ranged and close combat attacks (this counts 
as half-cover and provides a +2 bonus to their AC).
Should all of the Dunlending Warriors be reduced to half 
their hit points or less, they will offer the Company a bag 
of Dwarven silver coins (a total of 60s) in exchange for 
their lives. If the companions accept the bag and leave the 
bound man to the riders, this counts as a Misdeed (worth 
3 Shadow points). Should the companions refuse the offer 
and wound them again they flee, leaving the bound man 
entirely. They won’t let themselves be captured alive.
Dunlending Warriors
Medium Human
STR 
16 (+3)
DEX 
12 (+1)
CON 
19 (+4)
INT 
11 (+0)
WIS 
12 (+1)
CHA 
7 (-2)
Armour Class 14 (Ring-mail or 11 without armour)
Hit Points 64 (8d8+32)
Speed 30 ft 
Skills Athletics +5, Perception +3, Survival +3
Senses passive Perception 13
Languages Dunlending
Challenge 3 (700 XP)
No Quarter. When the Dunlending Warrior reduces an 
enemy to 0 hit points that enemy is considered to already 
have failed one death save. 
Unyielding (Recharge 5-6). The Warrior can use his 
bonus action to gain 8 temporary hit points.
Actions
Multiattack. The Warrior makes two attacks with his 
chosen weapon.
Great Axe. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 9 (1d12+3) slashing damage.
Great Spear. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 10 ft, 
one target. Hit: 9 (1d12+3) piercing damage.
Who is the Bound Man? 
If the Company is able to drive off or kill the riders, 
they may free the bound man. It is Larry Appledore, the 
fireworks vendor from Combe. He is extremely relieved 
to have been saved from “those ruffians”, but he really 
cannot explain why he was kidnapped in the first place! 
He isn’t rich, nor does he know anyone who could pay 
a ransom for his life. He doesn’t know even where the 
Dunlendings were headed.
If the companions cannot make head or tail of the reason 
why the Dunlendings had an interest in Larry, a DC 20 
Intelligence (Riddle) check may uncover his friendship 
with Gandalf, an association he might have been too 
liberal in telling the people of the caravan about.
- Part Three - 
False Accusations
This part of the adventure is written assuming that the 
heroes are again on the trail of the Company of the Wain, 
and that they didn’t attack or directly confront any of its 
members – if they did, you may need to adapt the next part 
or skip ahead entirely. Or perhaps they still travel with the 
Company in the guise of merchants and think they have 
successfully hidden their interference in the abduction of 
Larry Appledore.
The caravan is met in a different location along the 
Greenway, as the traders set up their wares and once more 
the smallfolk come out to be entertained and swindled. 
However, there is a different air about the caravan this 
time. The merchants seem more hesitant and less carefree 
than they were previously, scowling at the Company 
and demanding ridiculous sums if asked about their 
merchandise.
At Road’s End
The Loremaster can set this part of the adventure at any 
farmstead or village along the Greenway. The adventure 
proposes Road’s End, a village that can be placed exactly 
where it suits best the narration of the Loremaster, any 
place along the path of the Company of the Wain. Its 
location (and name!) is most suited to the point where 
the Greenway forks, to continue north towards Bree, and 
north-west, towards Sarn Ford.
1
The Company of the Wain

--- PAGE 86 ---
Eriador Adventures
86
The village is composed of a dozen buildings, clustered 
around a larger and crumbling mansion of ancient 
foundation, possibly once a waystation built to serve a 
forgotten kingdom. A wide, partially overgrown clearing, 
the remnant of what was once the town’s market square, 
serves travelling caravans well to make camp. 
The inhabitants of Road’s End are not more than a couple 
hundred individuals, among those living in the village 
itself, and in other farms in the vicinity. While most 
villagers are simple farmers, the trade along the Greenway 
has attracted some of the rougher types that can be found 
in Eriador: bandits, thugs and assorted ruffians. Rangers 
of the North sometimes mingle among them, to spy the 
Enemy from within and to single out the most dangerous 
individuals (to deal with later). 
The alderman of Road’s End is an old cutthroat called 
Morsad. Originally from Tharbad, Morsad has left his 
life of wrongdoing, but has used his previous career 
(and friends!) to win a position of influence in the small 
community. His friendship with Uathach has helped too, 
together with the gold he received from Isengard. 
Brigands!
Should the Company stay near or in the settlement for 
the night, they find themselves awakened by a sizeable 
group of local men. There must be at least two-dozen 
armed fellows, bearing weapons of assorted provenance, 
from old, rusty swords and knives, to farm implements 
of various sizes; some carry strung hunting bows with an 
arrow nocked. They are mostly Thugs and Farmers, with 
a few Outlaws. The group is led by a threatening fellow, a 
white-bearded old man with the look of a crazed hermit, 
called Morsad.
In the name of the population of Road’s End, Morsad 
addresses the companions and informs them that a 
traveller has made accusations of brigandry against 
them. The Company is severely outnumbered and asked 
to leave their weapons where they lie and come with them 
to resolve the matter. If they want to avoid a bloodbath, 
the heroes will have to surrender…
Prisoners
The companions are held in a barn. No ways of escaping 
are visible, and it seems that the heroes will have to wait 
this out. 
Shortly after dawn, the men of Morsad return. They 
bind the heroes’ hands and take the Company to a stand 
of trees, where a folk-moot is going to be held. All the 
inhabitants of Road’s End trickle in, to watch the show. 
A wounded man is then brought out stretched on a board 
carried by several local men. It’s an ill-favoured fellow 
with a grimy face, who holds his left arm tied up in a 
bloodied bandage. The companions have never seen him 
before. He is their accuser.
6

--- PAGE 87 ---
87
The Folk-moot
The folk-moot is set up to frame the companions, so its 
proceeding won’t have much to do with justice. The 
accuser, Idderig, is a man in Uathach’s payroll, and 
Morsad, the alderman, is an agent of Saruman, placed 
in Road’s End to assist Uathach in her missions. But there 
is hope, as the doom of the folk-moot will be pronounced 
by the assembled villagers, and the companions will have 
their chance to influence their judgement and convince 
them of their innocence during the Audience. The folk of 
Road’s End are closest to the Men of Bree and share their 
Cultural Attitudes.
Motivations and Expectations
Morsad’s stated motivation (“to bring justice”) is different 
from his true aims, but more depends on the earnest 
villagers that by tradition will actually pass judgement on 
the Company. The following Expectations apply:
• 
Elves are a very unusual encounter here, if any Elf is a 
member of the Company, apply a -1 modifier.
• 
Hobbits and Dwarves are considered forthright folk, 
if any speak in defense of the Company add a +1 
modifier.
• 
If the companions fought or resisted in the course of 
being detained, they’ve earned a -2 modifier. If they 
killed anyone, they must make the Final Audience 
Check at Disadvantage (see below).
Introduction
As the heroes wait in chains, Morsad opens the folk-moot, 
announcing the reason for the assembly. He introduces 
Idderig, the accuser, a wanderer from Rhudaur who has 
asked for justice against the company of brigands that 
wounded him.
When he is given permission to speak, Idderig presents 
himself as a simple itinerant tinker. The alderman asks 
anyone in the folk-moot to give their pledge that they 
know the tinker, several of the assembled raise their hand, 
nodding.
The alderman then asks the “headman” of the Company 
to introduce his companions and state their business on 
the Greenway.
Interaction
Morsad asks Idderig to tell his tale. The tinker claims he 
was ambushed by the Company, and wounded in his 
escape attempt. For proper storytelling, the Loremaster 
should ensure Idderig’s tale is consistent with details 
about the Company that Uathach might have gathered 
since the heroes have started showing an interest in the 
caravan. If at all possible, Idderig could even exhibit some 
token previously stolen from the companions by one of 
Uathach’s servants.
Then it is the turn of the companions to defend themselves. 
They are allowed to counter the accusations of Idderig: 
a player can lead her defence in the way she prefers, 
proposing appropriate DC 15 skill checks: Deception to 
provide a cover story, Intimidation to threaten Idderig 
for lying, Persuasion to convince the villagers of the 
Company’s intent or Riddle to sift their accuser’s words 
and find holes in his story. If a companion addresses 
Idderig directly, any particularly successful roll leads him 
to blubber incoherently, while failures have him deny 
convincingly.
The Loremaster should play out the exchange under the 
normal rules for audiences. The folk-moot ends either 
when the Company has run out of things to say, or when 
they exceed the patience of the villagers. If they achieved 
more successes than failures in their cross-examination 
then the spokesperson makes the Final Audience Check 
with Advantage, or with Disadvantage if they had more 
failures. If the heroes killed anyone resisting arrest then 
they automatically have Disadvantage on the check.
Evaluating the Final Audience Check
The Loremaster compares the outcome of the final roll to 
the listings below to determine the folk-moot’s judgement.
Failure: The elder pronounces his doom. The companions 
are found guilty of wounding a free man, and are requested 
to pay a weregild of 60 silver pennies. In this case, proceed 
immediately to A Dark Dawn on the following page.
Success by 0–3: The alderman declares that he “senses 
something sinister upon you”, and informs the companions 
that they are free to go, but also that they are never to return 
to Road’s End. They will be escorted to the Greenway, 
whereupon their weapons will be returned. This way, they 
won’t have a chance to question Idderig (see below).
8
The Company of the Wain

--- PAGE 88 ---
Eriador Adventures
88
Success by 4–5: The doom of the tinker is apparent to 
the assembled villagers, and the alderman cannot choose 
but to pronounce it: Idderig has accused the companions 
falsely, and is to be taken to the nearest crossroads and 
left there, not to return to the settlement on pain of death. 
Morsad reluctantly apologises to the Company and orders 
their weapons to be returned to them.
Success by 6+: The Company is recognised as being 
victims of a false testimony; the villagers sympathise with 
them. They are cheered, and given shelter and food for 
one day. Idderig is chased away as for the previous entry.
Questioning Idderig
Even if it is recognised that they are innocent, the 
companions will be prohibited to follow Idderig to the 
crossroads. If they try to find him later, he can be tracked 
with a DC 15 Wisdom (Survival) check. He will be on 
the run towards the south, and wary of the Player-heroes 
looking for him. 
Idderig will attempt to hide in the brush but a successful 
DC 13 Wisdom (Perception) check will reveal him. He 
will not fight but will immediately begin grovelling for 
mercy.
Much can be gained in the questioning of the wretch, as 
he knows the identity of she who hired him to accuse the 
companions: Uathach of Tharbad. But Idderig is a very 
good liar, and the difficulty of any check to interrogate 
him is set at DC 20. He will also build a believable 
castle of falsehoods, if the rolls made by the Company to 
interrogate him fail (or produce natural 1 results).
A Dark Dawn
If the companions failed to demonstrate their innocence 
at the folk-moot, they will be kept in the barn overnight, 
and the following dawn one of them will be allowed to go 
and fetch the money needed to pay the due weregild.
 
But before that happens, Idderig will set the barn ablaze. 
A companion with an appropriate trait (Wary, Smoking, 
or similar) will notice the fire in time, as will a hero with 
a passive Perception of 13 or more. If they cry for help, 
their guards will open the door of the barn and attempt 
to restrain them while also putting out the fire. This is a 
good time to attack or flee, should the companions wish 
to do so.
Until the Company retrieves their weapons, the rules 
for unarmed strikes (and perhaps Grappling) are used. 
There is one armed guard (a Thug) for every two unarmed 
companions. If they defeat the guards, recovering their 
gear will be easy: it is kept in another barn nearby.
- Part Four - 
She Sees, She Knows
By now, Uathach of Tharbad certainly knows about the 
suspicions of the companions and their interest in her 
dealings. She has informed her master about it, and she 
is ready to take extreme measures to protect herself and 
her mission.
What follows detail some of the actions that Uathach 
might undertake to convince the companions that they 
are being exceedingly nosy. The material can be used by 
the Loremaster in the way you deem fit, to conform with 
how the adventure has gone so far.
A Lone Rider
Uathach may send Thelred of Rohan to hound the 
Company and keep a watch on their whereabouts. The 
mute is Uathach’s minion of choice, as he does not run 
the risk of divulging her secrets.
With appropriate rolls the heroes soon may find they 
are followed by a single rider. Thelred stays well out of 
bowshot, and handles his horse adeptly, always ready to 
ride away should they pursue. 
He tries to disguise his features under a long scarf, but 
a Keen-eyed hero, or anyone succeeding in a DC 12 
Wisdom (Perception) check may recognise him if they 
have a chance to get a good look at him.
If the heroes are perceived as a threat by Uathach, Thelred 
will attempt to harm them when a chance offers itself, 
possibly singling out one companion and attacking him 
by surprise. He will silently approach his victim, throw 
a spear at the unfortunate, and then jump on his horse 
to escape. He will probably attempt this at dusk, as the 
companions are setting up camp. If caught, Thelred fights 
to the death.
6
6

--- PAGE 89 ---
89
Thelred
Medium Human (Evil Men)
STR 
15 (+2)
DEX 
13 (+1)
CON 
16 (+3)
INT 
10 (+0)
WIS 
15 (+2)
CHA 
13 (+1)
Armour Class 15 (Leather Corslet, Shield)
Hit Points 67 (9d8+28)
Speed 30 ft 
Skills Animal Handling +6, Persuasion +3, Traditions +2
Senses passive Perception 12
Languages Understands Rohirric, Westron
Challenge 2 (450 XP)
Rider. Thelred is often found astride his palfrey (riding horse).
Born to the Saddle. Thelred has Advantage on all 
Wisdom (Animal Handling) checks.
Actions
Poisoned Spears Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: 
+5 to hit, reach 5 ft or range 20/60 ft, one target. Hit: 5 
(1d6+2) piercing damage or 6 (1d8+2) piercing damage 
if used with two hands to make a melee attack and the 
target must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw 
or become Stunned until they complete a short rest. If 
this attack causes the target to reach 0 hit points and the 
saving throw is failed, it is killed outright.
Charge. Thelred must be mounted to take this action. His 
mount gains 120 feet of movement, all of which must be 
expended this round. If Theldred takes the Attack action 
this turn he gains +4 to his damage rolls.
A Regiment of Crows
Uathach has sent word of the troublesome Company to 
Saruman, who has sent a regiment of Crebain, the birds of 
Dunland, from Tharbad to spy over them. The Company 
notices a kind of crow of large size watching them from 
a branch. This bird does not follow, it simply watches as 
they pass. Some time later, the companions spot another 
crow, or maybe the same one, perched upon a rock.
This sighting occurs regularly, several times each day.
Should the heroes attempt to kill the bird, it simply flies 
away before the companions can get a clear shot at it. 
When the Company has gotten used to the presence of 
the dark bird, the crebain strike. As soon as one or more 
companions engage in a potentially dangerous activity, 
like scaling a cliffside or traversing a swift-moving stream, 
a full murder of Crebain (two-dozen or more) swoop 
upon the endangered companions, worsening their 
predicament. The Crebain’s constant attacks mean that 
any companion who attempts an ability check makes it at 
Disadvantage.
A Weariness of the Heart
Saruman does not necessarily need murderous servants 
or wicked birds to hinder the companions or further 
his plans. His arm is growing long, and he is always 
learning new ways to exert his power. If the actions of the 
companions worry him, the will of the White Wizard can 
4
The Company of the Wain

--- PAGE 90 ---
Eriador Adventures
90
become like an unseen barrier, set before the companions 
and obstructing them in their progress: when this happens, 
each companion has Disadvantage on any ability checks 
whenever they are outside a Sanctuary.
- Part Five - 
When Dark Things… 
The companions are not the only ones who are keeping 
an eye on the Company of the Wain. A group of Rangers 
of the North normally set on guard upon Sarn Ford are 
becoming interested, especially since the companions 
have started taking a look.
The Loremaster must determine the best way to introduce 
the Rangers to the Company, based on the current 
circumstances. A few suggestions include: 
• 
The Rangers show up one night at the company’s 
camp. They basically ‘ambush’ them to keep their 
presence a secret from prying eyes, but they make 
sure to avoid any bloodshed.
• 
If the Player-heroes spared Idderig, the Rangers 
capture him later and learn about the Company 
and their suspicions. They deliver a message to the 
companions, asking them to meet in an isolated 
location. 
• 
If the Company performed well while on trial in 
Road’s End (see page 87), they have been noticed by 
the Rangers disguised in the village and assessed as 
potential allies.
Once the Company meets the Rangers, they soon make 
the acquaintance of Randír, their captain. Randír leads a 
group of eight Dúnedain warriors, normally set to watch 
upon the crossing at Sarn Ford, to the north. He is very 
curious about the involvement of the companions with the 
Company of the Wain, and he will hear their testimony 
with extreme attention.
Randír is an Elf-friend, so he will instinctively trust any 
Elven companion, and naturally another fellow Ranger of 
the North.
Foreshadowing
The Loremaster might like to use the encounter with 
Randír to introduce other Ranger characters who will 
be featured in future scenarios, such as Hiraval (see 
pages 93-95), Cirion (see page 113), or even a new 
Ranger Player-hero.
 
Dealing with the Spies
When the companions are done telling Randír all they 
know, or at least what they want him to know, the Dúnadan 
captain tells them that the matter is now in his hands, 
should they wish to continue to further adventures.
Should they insist on dealing personally with the Company 
of the Wain, Randír will then offer his support and that of 
his men, and is available to give advice on the possible 
courses of action.
8

--- PAGE 91 ---
91
There are several possibilities, based on what the 
companions have learnt about the Company of the Wain:
Let the Company Be
Unsure about the right thing to do, the companions 
choose to wait and see. The Rangers will watch over the 
caravan, and keep the Player-heroes informed, should 
they ask for it.
If this is the chosen course of action, the Loremaster can 
close the current Adventuring phase; the heroes will 
certainly encounter the Company of the Wain again, as 
Uathach will become a ‘recurring villain’ in their campaign. 
Deal directly with Uathach
If the heroes have singled out the ‘blind’ seer as the 
protagonist of the dark scheme, they may attempt to 
kidnap her, or worse. This will need a well-organised plan, 
as Uathach has several servitors to protect her, and is well 
respected by all members of the Company of the Wain.
The Loremaster should refer to the description of the 
caravan and its members to play out this development 
of the adventure. Randír and his men will propose to 
ambush the caravan at an appropriate location, to let the 
companions break into Uathach’s wagon to confront her 
or take her away.
- Epilogue - 
Fellowship Phase
The Adventuring phase will reach its conclusion when the 
Player-heroes have dealt with Uathach once and for all, 
or when they decide they need to know more about the 
dealings of the Company of the Wain before they can act.
To this end, the companions may want to hear some 
valuable advice during the following Fellowship phase, 
especially if they have someone among their patrons that 
is accounted among the Wise and powerful:
The Companions Confer with Saruman
If the White Wizard is suspected to have something to do 
with the Company of the Wain, he might be confronted by 
the companions with proof of his involvement. Naturally, 
Saruman will deny everything: the Loremaster should 
find a plausible explanation or alibi for any and all 
accusations moved against the Head of the White Council; 
he is not easily cornered.
If Saruman happens to be a patron of the Company of 
heroes, he will find it even easier to hide his tracks: he will 
provide the Player-heroes with some ‘insider information’ 
capable of putting the blame on others, perhaps saying 
such things as “Uathach was charged with keeping a 
watch upon the North. Her failure proves to me that too 
easily does the Shadow slip into the hearts of Men.” He 
might even fault Gandalf’s meddling if the companions 
cannot be convinced that Uathach was not following his 
orders.
The Companions Confer with Gandalf
If the heroes go to the Grey Pilgrim for advice, Gandalf 
will hear patiently what they have to say. His reaction will 
depend on the information gathered so far, but in general 
terms the Wizard will tend to underestimate any proof 
of the involvement of the head of his order, Saruman. 
Gandalf has had disagreements with the White Wizard 
before, but at this time he has nothing but respect for his 
supposedly greater wisdom.
Investigating Further
Of course, the Player-heroes may not be satisfied that 
the threat to Eriador is at an end, even if they have dealt 
with Uathach or consulted with the Wise. The presence 
of Dunlendings and an outcast from the Rohirrim, not 
to mention suspicions of Isengard’s involvement, might 
draw them south, into the lands of Rohan… 
But that, as they say, is for a future supplement.
8
8
8
The Company of the Wain

--- PAGE 92 ---
Eriador Adventures
92
- What Lies - 
beneath 
For heroes of level 8 or 9
• 
When: The Company may undertake this adventure at 
any time between 2954 and 2977. The journey is of a 
significant length so it would be prudent to begin it in 
spring or early summer. 
• 
Where: The adventure begins at Rivendell and then 
leads west across the great East Road to the Weather 
Hills, north of Amon Sûl, and the ruins of a secret 
manor in ancient Arthedain. 
• 
What: Hiraval, a Ranger of the North, has set upon a 
difficult undertaking: to reclaim his family’s ancient 
mansion. Its ruins seem to have recently become the 
refuge of a number of brigands, and he has need of 
allies to accompany him.
• 
Why: The Ranger believes that the ancestral mansion 
could serve well as a base of operations for the 
Dúnedain north of Weathertop. Securing it would 
make travelling in Eriador safer for everyone.
• 
Who: Hiraval is the main Loremaster character of this 
adventure. He was a proud and noble Ranger of the 
North, but the spirit of an ancestor has haunted him 
for many years, and the spectre is slowly driving him 
towards madness.
• 
Themes: The heroes might have fought against the 
Shadow for years, but does anyone appreciate their 
struggle? Do the heroes resent those folk that scorn 
them, or celebrate that the simple folk are not troubled 
by the cares of the Company?
Adventuring Phase
This adventure is divided into four parts. The first part 
finds the heroes in Rivendell then the adventure sets out a 
journey across the rugged lands that lie between Rivendell 
and the Weather Hills. After this, the Player-heroes will 
encounter the group of ‘bandits’ that have made the old 
manor their home and base of operations. The final part 
of the adventure relates to the far more terrifying prospect 
of dealing with the Spectre Húldrahir.
Part One – In Rivendell Where Elves 
Yet Dwell
Wherein it is established why the characters are in 
Rivendell and introduces them to Elrond and Hiraval.
Part Two – The Journey West
Here the Company leaves The Last Homely House, 
travelling west through the harsh landscape of the 
Trollshaws and on to Weathertop, where they meet with 
a patrol of Rangers.
Part Three – The Secret Manor
The companions make their way north through the 
Weather Hills to the ruins of a manor built at the time 
of the kingdom of Arthedain, and find it occupied by a 
peculiar set of individuals.
Part Four – A Night of Treachery 
and Madness
The Spectre Húldrahir reaches out to corrupt the hearts 
of those who dwell in the ruins of the manor. The result 
will be murder and treachery, and the companions will 
be hard pressed to avoid the tragic end of a once noble 
bloodline born out of Westernesse.
Epilogue – Húldrahir Defeated
Wherein the companions reap the fruit of their efforts, or 
mourn the tragic events they witnessed.
The Eye of Mordor
If you are using the optional Eye of Mordor rules 
presented in the Rivendell Region Guide, any 
revelation episodes during this adventure are likely 
to relate to the strain put on Hiraval’s mind by the 
Shadow, or to Húldrahir’s growing power. 
The Ranger might turn on the Company by subtle 
means, unwittingly boycotting their actions, or by 
pushing them to choose always the most reckless or rash 
course of action. Since the adventure as written already 
presents a similar development, the Loremaster should 
worsen each episode accordingly.

--- PAGE 93 ---
93
- Part One -
In Rivendell Where Elves 
Yet Dwell
The adventure begins in Rivendell, the Last Homely House. 
One evening, when the companions have settled in the 
Hall of Fire, telling tales of adventures past and singing
songs about heroes of old, Lindir invites them to meet with 
Master Elrond on the eastern porch.
Helping a Ranger
The eastern porch opens on the moonlit gardens of 
Imladris. White stone-marked paths lead out among 
the pine trees, and the river cuts a sparkling ribbon 
through the valley below. The Company might linger for a 
moment, taking in the wondrous view, before they realise 
that Master Elrond is sitting in a high-backed chair, his 
eyes glittering in the dark. Someone else sits to his left, 
wrapped in a dark cloak.
“Welcome! I have an important matter to discuss with 
you.” Master Elrond begins, “A Ranger of the North needs 
help in an important task. This is Hiraval, son of Hirgeleb.”
Hiraval stands to greet the companions with a curt bow. 
He removes his hood, to reveal a chiselled face that shows 
the many years he has spent on the road. His coal-black 
hair and beard are shot through with a few silver strands.
Playing Hiraval
Hiraval was once a proud and generous Ranger, but 
his mind is breaking under the strain put on him by his 
unquiet dead ancestor. He is still sane when he meets 
the companions in Rivendell, but a darker nature is 
emerging, replacing his generosity with bitterness, 
changing his pride into arrogance and turning his 
courage to overconfidence. He is in control of his deeds, 
but his goals are not entirely his own any more.
When playing Hiraval during the adventure, the 
Loremaster should remember to have him react 
with anger to any unexpected news, especially that 
concerning the brigands occupying the ruins of his 
family’s land, and with impatience to any other event 
threatening to delay his mission.
Motivation
In Hiraval’s conscious mind, he seeks aid from Lord 
Elrond and the heroes to reclaim his manor and give the 
Dúnedain a place of strength in the Weather Hills. But 
Húldrahir has no care for these things… it wants death 
and destruction, especially if the heroes have opposed its 
master before.
Expectations
• 
+1 if the heroes have Rangers or any Elves among 
them. That part of Hiraval’s mind that is faithful 
respects his kin and the First-born.
• 
+2 if the heroes readily agree to dealing with the 
bandits harshly. Elrond may stir at words of violence 
but he knows that there are some who are wholly 
taken by the Shadow.
• 
-1 if the heroes are unwilling to speak of past battles 
or answer his other questions.
• 
-2 if the heroes question Hiraval’s goals at all.
Introduction
If the speaker for the Company is a Dúnedain or Elf or 
speaks only of the companions’ prowess in combat then 
the Introduction Check is made with Advantage. During 
the conversation, particularly sensitive heroes might be 
eligible to make a DC 15 Wisdom (Insight) check. Those 
that succeed might detect overeagerness when Hiraval 
speaks of reclaiming his family’s manor, or a touch of 
resentment when he speaks about those he is supposed 
to protect.
Interaction
Hiraval begins by explaining his plans and asking each 
character a pointed question. He begins:
“Elrond has told me something about you and praised 
your deeds. He considers you to be worthy warriors, 
fighting to protect those who are heedless. I come to you 
today with a mission of the utmost importance. There is a 
manor, in the Weather Hills north of Weathertop, where 
my family dwelt of old. Mere ruins remain today, haunted 
by craven brigands who dared defile its stones.
“Long have my kin protected Eriador, the land we once 
ruled as kings. If I were to reclaim my family’s estate, our 
guard would be renewed and allowed to continue. I seek 
allies in this quest, men who would not fear to tread a 
path fraught with danger.” 
8
What Lies Beneath

--- PAGE 94 ---
Eriador Adventures
94
Hiraval then asks each companion in turn a question. 
Examples of such questions are as follows:
“What is most important to you in life?”
“Tell me about your greatest victory.”
“Is it better to be feared or loved by those who you guard?”
“What one mistake in your life would you change?”
“What would you be willing to sacrifice your wealth and 
loved ones for?”
Players should be asked by the Loremaster whether they 
are answering truthfully or not as such lies may well be 
noted by Master Elrond who observes these discussions 
(although the master of Imladris offers counsel only when 
asked directly). When all the companions have answered, 
Hiraval asks them if they now have any questions for him. 
Some questions the companions may likely ask are listed 
below along with the Ranger’s response.
Why do you not seek to involve others of your kin in 
this expedition?
“Our numbers are few and spread thin across these 
lands, though our mission has not diminished in need 
or importance. We seek allies in our efforts against the 
Enemy.”
What can you tell us of your family’s lands?
“Our estate lies within a day’s ride to the north of 
Weathertop, nestled within the Weather Hills. Our manor 
provided the watchtower at Amon Sûl with supplies and 
men. Now, my ancestral home is but a shadow of itself; all 
ruined and overgrown.”
What do you know of the brigands there?
“There isn’t much I need to know. It is a group of miserable 
wretches without honour, seeking to profit from those who 
cannot defend themselves in the wild.”
Why does this undertaking interest Elrond and 
Rivendell?
“Long have the Elves assisted my people in our struggles 
against the Shadow. This mission will give us an advantage 
against our common foe.”
Final Audience Check
Once the heroes have answered the Ranger’s questions 
and asked their own questions, there comes a moment 
when Hiraval becomes stern and thoughtful. It is time for 
the Company’s speaker to make the Final Audience Check 
and learn if they have earned his respect.
Failure: Hiraval accepts the assistance of the heroes only 
because he cannot find another solution, and secretly 
despises them. Any choices taken by them contrary 
to is counsel will vex him profoundly. As the adventure 
progresses, his reactions will worsen, and when his mind 
finally breaks (see Breaking Hiraval on page 106), he 
won’t hesitate in harming the companions, should his 
goals require him to. His behaviour will at times betray 
his feelings, as contemptuous remarks will escape his lips.
Success by 0-5: Hiraval is generally indifferent to the 
companions. Their association with him is nothing 
more than a means to an end. The Ranger will treat the 
characters with little warmth, unless the behaviour of the 
heroes towards him or his son Edrahil succeed in warming 
his feelings towards them.

--- PAGE 95 ---
95
Success by 6+: The Company succeeded in impressing 
what is left in Hiraval that respects valour and the value 
of friendship. Even if his aims do not change, deep inside 
himself Hiraval hopes that his quest will have a positive 
outcome. The Ranger is generally amicable towards the 
Player-heroes and he ends up sharing many thoughts with 
them about the glorious past of his folk, or about what the 
future holds for his land and kin. The Loremaster should 
curb the Ranger’s reactions as described in the adventure 
towards a somewhat more positive edge.
Hiraval
Medium Human
STR 
19 (+4)
DEX 
11 (+0)
CON 
17 (+3)
INT 
14 (+2)
WIS 
16 (+3)
CHA 
9 (-1)
Armour Class 16 (Ring-mail, Shield)
Hit Points 82 (11d8+33)
Speed 30 ft 
Skills History +5, Perception +9, Pipe +5, Shadow-lore 
+5, Survival +6
Senses passive Perception 19
Languages Westron, Sindarin
Challenge 5 (1,800 XP)
Endurance of the Dúnedain. Hiraval may continue to 
act normally for one round after being reduced to 0 hit 
points.
Hunter. Hiraval gains +3 to all of his Perception checks 
(included above).
Long-pipe. Hiraval can make a DC 15 Intelligence 
(Pipe) check as an action. On a success, he makes his next 
ability check with Advantage.
Actions
Multiattack: Hiraval can make two attacks with his Long 
Sword or Short Bow.
Long Sword: Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 8 (1d8+4) slashing damage or 9 (1d10+4) 
slashing damage if wielded with two hands.
Short Bow: Ranged Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, range 
80/320 ft, one target. Hit: 3 (1d6) piercing damage.
Developing the Relationship with Hiraval
The companions will share a long journey with Hiraval, and 
might face several threats in the course of the adventure. 
The Loremaster should take into account what happens 
during the Adventuring phase and modify the attitude of 
Hiraval towards the companions accordingly. To do so the 
Loremaster must keep in mind that the starting point has 
been set during the encounter in Rivendell, and that the 
Ranger’s disposition towards the adventurers is going 
to worsen with the passage of time, as Hiraval’s sanity 
slowly degenerates. Examples of actions that might 
warm Hiraval towards the heroes include performing 
a particularly valiant action in combat (but Hiraval is 
hard to impress) or protecting his son Edrahil, or even 
treating the young boy as an equal and with respect. On 
the contrary, putting Edrahil in unnecessary danger will 
mar Hiraval’s opinion almost beyond the possibility of 
recovering.
- Part Two - 
The Journey West
In the morning, the Company meets in Rivendell’s Great 
Hall and sit around the table for a light breakfast. Hiraval 
joins them, and takes the chance to introduce his 14 year-
old son, Edrahil. The young boy strikingly resembles his 
father, apart from the fair hair of his mother, a Dúnadan 
woman who died giving birth to the boy.
Edrahil
Medium Human
STR 
13 (+1)
DEX 
16 (+3)
CON 
12 (+1)
INT 
15 (+2)
WIS 
12 (+1)
CHA 
12 (+1)
Armour Class 17 (Corslet of Mail, Shield)
Hit Points 16 (3d8+3)
Speed 30 ft 
Skills Nature +4, Medicine +3, Survival +3 
Senses passive Perception 11
Languages Westron, Sindarin
Challenge 1/2 (100 XP)
Foresighted (Recharge 5-6). Edrahil may use his bonus 
action to have a sudden insight into the best course of 
action. He has Advantage on all ability checks, attack rolls 
and saving throws until the beginning of his next turn.
Actions
Short Sword: Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 6 (1d6+3) piercing damage.
Short Bow: Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, range 
80/320 ft, one target. Hit: 6 (1d6+3) piercing damage.
Edrahil has spent many months training as Hiraval’s 
squire, cleaning the Ranger’s supplies, preparing food 
What Lies Beneath

--- PAGE 96 ---
Eriador Adventures
96
and treating his master with due deference. He will join 
his father, and the companions, on the coming adventure.
Playing Edrahil
Edrahil is capable, calm and energetic. He is interested 
in any Elves or Dwarves in the party and will pepper 
them with questions about their adventures, hoping one 
day that he too can stand against the Shadow. If given 
the opportunity, he will form strong friendships with 
any Hobbit hero.
From Rivendell to Weathertop
If the heroes keep to the Road for as long as possible, the 
journey to Weathertop will take six days and produce 
1d2+1 Journey Events (one of which might be Travellers 
in Need, see below). The first three days are spent under 
the shadow of the Trollshaws and Hiraval warns the 
companions to be on their guard as Trolls come down from 
the Ettenmoors in the north and wolves stalk anything on 
four legs or two who dare venture through these parts. 
Ancient ruins covered by thick woods recall a time when 
men ruled these lands.
If any of the Player-heroes question Hiraval about these 
lands, the Ranger speaks wistfully of the lost realm of 
Arnor, and how it fell before the dark power of Angmar. 
Edrahil has heard these stories before, but he is always 
glad to hear his father talk, something the grim Ranger 
does less and less with the passing of the months.
Eventually, the Company passes the Last Bridge, leaving 
behind the Trollshaws and entering the Lone-lands still 
on the great East Road heading West. The Journey Event 
tables in Rivendell Region Guide can help inform the trip, 
but after the companions leave the Trollshaws there is at 
least one meeting that is fated for them.
Travellers in Need
At some point during the journey west and before 
reaching Weathertop, the Company encounters a group 
of four harried strangers travelling on the great East 
Road in the opposite direction and whose wagon has 
broken down. They claim to be travelling blade-grinders, 
offering their services to wanderers and villagers alike, 
but several mouldy blankets cover their gear and a foul 
smell emanates from within the covered wain. A DC 10 
Wisdom (Insight) check indicates that the presence of the 
Company frightens the travellers.
If pressed about their trade, the travellers are taciturn. 
They say they were robbed by highwaymen several days 
out of Bree and to have lost what little coin they had. 
Unbeknownst to the companions, the filthy blankets cover 
the travellers’ recently deceased mother. If a companion 
8
n
a
Rivendell
E
East Road
Castle Hill 
The Troll-Hole 
E
E
The Refuge of 
the Dúnedain
E
n
c
The Angle
n
n
Lone-lands
n
Lone-lands
Weathertop
E
Weather 
Hills
Midgewater
Marshes
n
South Downs
c
E
Bree
E
Manor Ruins
4

--- PAGE 97 ---
97
peeks under the blankets, one of the strangers pulls them 
down abruptly and says, “Don’t disturb mother. She’s at 
her rest now.”
Their suspicious behaviour notwithstanding, the four 
strangers are a simple folk – maybe not very bright but 
honest. They are armed with poor weapons for their own 
defence should the need arise, but they are not aggressive 
nor are they looking for trouble. What they are trying to 
do is to fulfil their mother’s dying wish to be buried in her 
ancestral homeland in the hills rising to the south of the 
East Road, some miles before the Last Bridge.
Their journey is a perilous one and it is obvious to the 
companions that these strangers are ill-equipped for the 
dangers that lie ahead of them. The companions must 
choose whether to help the strangers repair their wagon 
or to leave them to their own devices.
If the companions choose to help the strangers, their 
journey will last an additional day and cause each hero to 
gain a level of Exhaustion due to the effort required to repair 
the wain. But more interesting to them might be Hiraval’s 
reaction to their decision: the Ranger will complain 
openly that the heroes are only wasting his time, and that 
delaying their quest will have far worse consequences than 
what may befall a “wagon of thoughtless and misguided 
rovers”. His task is an important one, he insists, and it is 
not something to be trifled with.
Should the companions insist on helping the wanderers, 
Hiraval will stop complaining but will appear sullen and 
discontent for a while, only to recover his usual mood a 
couple of days later, as if nothing happened.
Weathertop in Sight
A couple of days after having left the desperate blade-
grinders behind, the East Road turns slightly to the 
south-west. Eventually, the companions arrive in sight 
of the Weather Hills, and the highest rise among them, 
Weathertop.
Upon seeing Amon Sûl outlined against the horizon, 
Hiraval’s chest swells with pride. As the Company 
progresses, the Ranger tells them a little of the history of 
this place: a tower stood once above Weathertop, built by 
Elendil, the high king. When Arnor fell, lesser kings fought 
for control of the tower, until it was captured by Angmar 
after long and bitter wars (see also A History of Eriador, 
in the Rivendell Region Guide, starting on page 27). But 
Weathertop is still a place much loved by the Dúnedain of 
the North, and they keep a watch over it.
Rangers on the Road
When Weathertop is within a half-day’s travel, the heroes 
meet Arbarad, the Warden of Amon Sûl (Rivendell Region 
Guide, page 57) travelling with two companions. The 
Rangers were watching over the great East Road from 
Weathertop but have now been called away on pressing 
8
What Lies Beneath

--- PAGE 98 ---
Eriador Adventures
98
matters to the south (perhaps to assist Randír in dealing 
with the Company of the Wain, see pages 90-91). They 
are of course kinsmen of Hiraval and any other Dúnedain 
characters so the encounter is friendly and doesn’t require 
any rolls as information is freely given. However, they will 
not linger.
On Hiraval’s express request, Arbarad has kept watch 
over his family mansion since the Ranger left for 
Rivendell, and can now tell the Company that the 
brigands have not yet left their camp among the ruins. 
Arbarad additionally provides the Player-heroes with the 
following information:
• 
There are five brigands camping out in the old ruins 
to the north of Weathertop.
• 
As far as Arbarad can tell, the brigands are 
highwaymen looking for easy coin, but there are 
heated exchanges within the group; the leader and 
another often appear to disagree although the reason 
for such arguments is not known.
At this point, the Rangers will end the discussion and bid 
the Company farewell; pressing business to the south 
means that they cannot assist them in dealing with the 
brigands. Hiraval waits for the Rangers to be out of 
sight, then complains loudly about the blindness that is 
preventing his own comrades from seeing what is really 
important. But one day they will see for themselves that 
he was not deceived.
- Part Three - 
The Secret Manor
The Weather Hills used to mark the border between the 
realms of Arthedain and Rhudaur of old. Hiraval says that 
the remains of his manor are a day’s march north of Amon 
Sûl, nestled within a range of windswept hills, crumbling 
stone walls and broken towers. It is a secret place, difficult 
to find. Unless you know the way, of course.
The terrain to traverse is rugged and hilly, dotted with 
thick, hard bushes, stones and rocks, but Hiraval follows 
the faint tracery of a safer path with surety. The Ranger 
leads the Company across many twists and turns, until 
the heroes reach a circle of boulders, rising on the edge 
of a deep cleft running from west to east. “Welcome to my 
humble abode,” says Hiraval.
At first glance, the companions see only the steep walls 
of the fissure, covered by vegetation, as they descend 
into the darkness, and hear the gurgling of a slow stream 
running at its bottom. But suddenly their eyes adjust to 
the deep shadows of the opening, and they finally see 
what cannot be seen from any other place in the Weather 
Hills: against the far wall of the cleft, no more than sixty 
yards from them, rise the walls of the hidden mansion 
of Hiraval’s family, a manor built entirely against the 
northern cliffside of the deep valley!
The Spectre of the Manor
Húldrahir is an ancestor of Hiraval, the Ranger. Once 
the head of a noble house of the Dúnedain of Arthedain, 
Húldrahir was so prideful that he believed he could 
discover the secrets of the Witch-king and use them against 
him. Tragically, but not surprisingly, he was wrong. He 
fell facing Lord of the Nazgûl, leaving his mortal remains 
cursed and his spirit chained to the Shadow. His manor 
followed his fate, and the house has lain in ruins ever since. 
Now the Witch-king calls out for his servants to rise in 
the North. Blood calls to blood, and Hiraval returned to 
his family’s mansions, searching for answers to the many 
mysteries surrounding his family. From the crypts below 
the manor, Húldrahir started to gnaw at Hiraval’s mind, 
tainting his dreams with visions of fear and torment.
Eventually, Hiraval left his ancestral home as a man 
haunted by nightmares, but before he could fully succumb 
to the Shadow. He wandered long in the exercise of his 
duties as a Ranger, but the desire of reclaiming his family’s 
mansion has become an obsession he can barely contain 
and the Spectre’s call becomes even stronger.
The “Brigands”
The men who occupy the ruins and who Hiraval refers to 
as ‘brigands’ are in fact individuals of a more peculiar 
sort: they are a company of aspiring adventurers! For 
the moment they are no more than a bunch of young and 
foolhardy rovers, but they are ambitious, and eager to 
make a name for themselves. 
Their companionship was born in Bree last year, when 
Elwin met Fay for the first time at the Prancing Pony. Elwin

--- PAGE 99 ---
99
and his band have recently left Bree. They have chosen 
the ruins of the manor as their current refuge of choice, 
and always return there after their exploration of the 
surrounding countryside. 
They have never encountered Hiraval and don’t know 
much about the Rangers of the North, as they still suffer 
from the preconceptions about them they heard tell in 
Bree. The Rangers consider them to be no more than 
brigands, as they trust Hiraval’s word. The company of 
Elwin sees Eriador as a region full of opportunities for 
people who, like them, are willing to put their lives at risk 
for the sake of adventuring and committing deeds worthy 
of remembrance. 
Unfortunately, the darkness hiding in Hiraval’s manor is 
threatening to break their fellowship already…
Elwin
Elwin is a young Man of Bree, charismatic and quick-
witted. In time, he could make a good leader, but for the 
moment he is a bit too naive and unwary. He grew up 
listening eagerly to all the old stories told about the time of 
the King, when all the land was united under one Crown. 
All his life he dreamt of buried treasure and the lost 
heritage of a heroic time, and one day he decided to leave 
home and go look for adventure.
Elwin
Medium Human
STR 
15 (+2)
DEX 
10 (+0)
CON 
16 (+3)
INT 
15 (+2)
WIS 
10 (+0)
CHA 
17 (+3)
Armour Class 16 (Ring-mail, Shield)
Hit Points 22 (3d8+9)
Speed 30 ft 
Skills Persuasion +5, Survival +2, Traditions +6 
Senses passive Perception 10
Languages Westron
Challenge 1/2 (100 XP)
Friendly and Inquisitive. Elwin is Friendly to all 
newcomers during Audiences
Actions
Short Sword: Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 
ft, one target. Hit: 5 (1d6+2) piercing damage.
Herbert
Shorter than the average Breelander and with a rough 
tangle of blond hair, Herbert would be considered 
handsome if it weren’t for a permanent sneer etched upon 
his face. A fellow already prone to jealousy, Herbert has 
secretly envied Elwin and his status as the groups’ guide 
since they first met, and this sentiment is starting to turn 
into hate under the influence of Húldrahir (see page 105). 
It will not be long before Herbert decides enough is enough 
and tries to take Elwin’s place.
Herbert
Medium Human
STR 
17 (+3)
DEX 
12 (+1)
CON 
13 (+1)
INT 
10 (+0)
WIS 
11 (+0)
CHA 
14 (+2)
Armour Class 15 (Hide, Shield)
Hit Points 22 (4d8+4)
Speed 30 ft 
Skills Athletics +5, Intimidation +4 
Senses passive Perception 10
Languages Westron
Challenge 1/2 (100 XP)
Warg-hunter (Recharge 5-6). Herbert can spend his 
bonus action to gain Advantage on attack rolls versus 
wolves this round.
Actions
Spear. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 
5 ft or range 20/60 ft, one target. Hit: 6 (1d6+3) piercing 
damage or 7 (1d8+3) piercing damage if used with two 
hands to make a melee attack.
Dagger. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 
5 ft or range 20/60 ft, one target. Hit: 5 (1d4+3) piercing 
damage.
Fay
Enemies often underestimate the capabilities of this 
Hobbit-lass from Staddle, often to their disadvantage. Fay 
met Elwin in Bree when he caught her attempting to pick his 
money pouch, during last year’s autumn festivities. Seeing 
a misguided potential in her, Elwin lectured the Hobbit girl 
about heroes and adventures, and a companionship was 
forged. 
Fay is the best archer in the band of outlaws and has a 
cutting sense of humour, of which Herbert has been on the 
receiving end too many times for his liking.
What Lies Beneath

--- PAGE 100 ---
Eriador Adventures
100
Fay
Small Hobbit
STR 
13 (+1)
DEX 
18 (+4)
CON 
11 (+0)
INT 
12 (+1)
WIS 
15 (+2)
CHA 
8 (-1)
Armour Class 16 (Leather Corslet)
Hit Points 14 (4d6)
Speed 25 ft 
Skills Riddle +3, Sleight of Hand +6, Stealth +6
Senses passive Perception 12
Languages Westron
Challenge 1/2 (100 XP)
Fair Shot. Fay gains a +1 attack bonus to simple ranged 
weapons (included below).
Actions
Short Bow: Ranged Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, range 
80/320 ft, one target. Hit: 7 (1d6+4) piercing damage.
Folulf and Arnulf
Two Woodmen, Folulf and Arnulf hail from distant 
Wilderland. They made the journey across the Misty 
Mountains just a few months ago and met Elwin and 
his companions on the East Road. The young Breelander 
was elated at having met travellers from so far away, and 
insisted that they join his fellowship. The two brothers 
gladly accepted what they deemed was a true-hearted 
proposal, and they joined the company. Folulf, the more 
superstitious of the two Woodmen, believes the manor to 
be haunted. A creeping shadow that crawls amongst the 
ruins during the night plagues his dreams. He will freely 
comment on this if given the chance.
Folulf and Arnulf
Medium Humans
STR 
15 (+2)
DEX 
14 (+2)
CON 
16 (+3)
INT 
10 (+0)
WIS 
17 (+3)
CHA 
11 (+0)
Armour Class 16 (Scale Hauberk)
Hit Points 15 (2d8+6)
Speed 30 ft 
Skills Perception +5 (Arnulf), Survival +5 (Folulf)
Senses passive Perception 15 (Arnulf), 13 (Folulf)
Languages Westron
Challenge 1/2 (100 XP)
Actions
Axe. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 6 (1d8+2) slashing damage or 7 (1d10+2)
slashing damage if wielded with two hands.
Great Bow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, range 
150/600 ft, one target. Hit: 6 (1d8+2) piercing damage.
The Secret Manor
Hiraval’s fortress is nothing short of unusual. Built by 
the best stonemasons living in Arthedain at the time, 
the structure is composed of different levels built one on

--- PAGE 101 ---
101
top of the other, against the north wall of the cleft. From 
their vantage point atop the opposing side of the fissure, 
the Company can easily see the various parts of the 
fortification, as they emerge from the leafy fretwork of the 
thick vegetation covering the rock wall.
1. Watchtower
This narrow, round stone tower constitutes the highest 
structure of the manor, and is easily the first thing the 
companions notice as it emerges from the foliage. It 
used to be three storeys in height, but its topmost floor 
collapsed at some time in the past. Arnulf and Folulf keep 
watch here during the day. By night, one of them in turn 
returns to the manor ruins, leaving the other on watch. 
From here they enjoy a good view of the bottom of the cleft 
and the stairway leading to the manor house.
2. Manor House
Constituting the main part of the construction, the manor 
house is built on two floors above the stables, and is 
reached from the bottom of the cleft by a flight of stone 
steps. The manor house comprises family rooms, servant 
quarters, the main hall, kitchen and library. All rooms 
are deserted and mainly devoid of any furniture. Large 
fireplaces gape open against the blackened walls, and 
carven timbers crisscross the ceilings above. Debris litter 
all floors, making it almost impossible to move about 
stealthily. It is in these places, among the shadows of 
forgotten traditions that Elwin’s company make their camp.
3. Stables
Occupying the lowest level of the manor on the surface, 
the stables open on the floor at the bottom of the cleft. A 
single horse is stabled inside, well looked after by Elwin. 
She is a large cart-horse, built more for strength and 
stamina than speed. Elwin got her from his father, as a 
parting gift, and he has named her Drum. During the 
night Drum is often nervous and skittish, requiring Elwin 
to remain with her, calming her with soothing words. 
Those with some skill in horse husbandry or perhaps an 
Elf may see deeper meaning in the horse’s behaviour, for 
she senses the presence of Húldrahir in the dark of the 
night.
4. Cellars
Although extremely damp and flooded in places, the 
cellars remain largely intact. They are infested by rats that 
nest within rotten crates.
5. Family Crypt
Beneath the cellars there lies the family tomb of the 
Dúnedain who were once masters of these lands, the 
ancestors of Hiraval. These crypts are not reached from 
the cellars, but by a hidden stairway, whose entrance is 
secreted among the vegetation on the cleft bottom, a few 
yards from the entrance to the stables. This is the resting 
place of Húldrahir and it is from under these grounds that 
he extends his malice (see page 106).
What Lies Beneath

--- PAGE 102 ---
Eriador Adventures
102
Searching the Ruins
It is highly likely that the Player-heroes will at some 
point search the ruins. Perhaps the concerns raised by 
Elwin’s men match what they feel about the manor 
or maybe they simply want to explore the area before 
once again bedding down for the night.
The Loremaster should use the map and manor 
description at page 101 to describe what they find. 
In particular, a DC 13 Intelligence (Investigation) 
check made near the stables will discover the hidden 
gate leading to the tomb, an opening covered by 
overgrown roots and underbrush. A sturdy wooden 
door reinforced with iron blocks the entrance. A DC 
15 Wisdom (Perception) check identifies sinister 
signs and figures scrawled above the doorway, their 
carvings too dim to read.
If the heroes are searching the ruins through the night, 
the storm is now at its height, making it impossible for 
the Player-heroes to see anything. Hiraval insists they 
continue any investigation at daybreak, and he and 
Edrahil return to the ruins to spend the night inside.
The rain continues unabated, quickly turning the grass 
and earth at the bottom of the cleft into thick mud. 
Each flash of lightning casts stark and eerie shadows, 
the dark ruins reaching up like claws…
Entering the Manor
If the companions still trust Hiraval’s word, they will see 
the adventurers occupying the ruins as a group of craven 
brigands, probably to be dealt with swiftly. Looking at the 
situation from the opposing side, the men from Elwin’s 
company will think the same about the companions, and 
react accordingly.
The Loremaster must consider the approach chosen by 
the companions carefully, and select the most appropriate 
response for Elwin and his men. Violence will most likely 
generate violence, while a more friendly attitude will give 
the ‘brigands’ a chance to identify the threat they are 
facing and possibly let them make an attempt at resolving 
the situation peacefully. 
The following paragraphs examine two options: a direct 
assault and a stealthy approach.
A Direct Assault
This is Hiraval’s preferred course of action, one he will 
propose and advocate as soon as the companions start 
discussing their options; the Ranger openly resents the 
‘bandits’’ intrusion in what he feels is his own house and 
wishes to get rid of them as quickly as possible. He does 
not seem to mind the likelihood of a bloodbath. What 
the Player-heroes will think of the inevitable increase in 
Shadow points is entirely another matter! The following 
paragraphs consider the challenges the companions will 
face when attacking the manor.
• 
Look-outs in the Tower. Folulf and Arnulf regularly 
man the tower as their company’s look-outs. They 
have an excellent vantage point and can shoot arrows 
down upon any attacker at will.
• 
The Lay of the Land. Given the unusual structure 
of the manor, it will be difficult to scout the land 
in or around it. Considering such circumstances, 
if the Player-heroes roll for initiative they are at 
Disadvantage.
• 
Protecting Edrahil. Although capable, Edrahil is still 
just a boy and not hardened to the dangers of battle. 
Hiraval insists in him not joining any fight, but what if 
he should be spotted or targeted by an attack?
• 
Recklessness. The ‘brigands’ are unlikely to flee or 
surrender if attacked openly, as they feel they hold the 
better position. They will resist at least until both their 
leader Elwin and Herbert are slain.
• 
Brigand Tactics. The Woodmen will stay in the 
watchtower, peppering the companions with arrows 
as they advance on the outlaw camp, while the others 
hold their line within the manor, using it as cover 
against any ranged attacks. Once the Player-heroes 
close the ground the ‘brigands’ will engage them in 
close combat.
A Stealthy Approach
If the companions persuade Hiraval, they may approach 
the manor stealthily, in order to ambush the ‘brigands’ 
as they rest. Hiraval openly demonstrates his impatience, 
8

--- PAGE 103 ---
103
and might even voluntarily give away the presence of the 
Player-heroes to force the companions to attack instead.
• 
Approaching the Manor. Even in darkness, it will 
be a difficult task to approach the camp without being 
spotted: Elwin’s men may be young, but are are not 
fools and they do place a watch during the night.
• 
Identifying the Brigands. If the companions enter the 
manor without being spotted, they may spy upon the 
group of ‘brigands’. A successful DC 10 Intelligence 
(Riddle) or Wisdom (Insight) check will identify 
Elwin as their leader, and should lead the companions 
to put their identity into question, especially if there are 
Hobbits or Breefolk in the Company.
• 
Brigand Tactics. If the companions profit from a 
successful infiltration to attack the ‘brigands’ by 
surprise, the would-be adventurers will not be as 
organised as if they were defending themselves 
from a direct assault, and might actually consider 
surrendering if confronted by a violent onslaught. If 
they are ambushed, Fay will promptly disappear into 
the shadows.
Meeting Elwin
If the adventurers identify Elwin’s band for what it really 
is, either during a fight or because they got a chance to 
give them a good look, they might want to interact with 
them. If they choose to do so, the audience can be set up 
using the usual rules.
What do the companions want to achieve from this 
audience? The best outcome they may get may be to have 
Elwin and his men agree to leave the manor, but it won’t 
be easy; Hiraval will hinder any attempt at a peaceful 
negotiation, as he is firmly convinced of the ill-will of 
these ‘brigands’. The Ranger would rather have them 
stripped of their weapons and armour, if not put in chains 
and thrown down into the cellars.
Motivation
Young Elwin has no sense of the heritage of the Dúnedain 
or their long watch upon the North. To him, he and his 
fellow adventurers have made a base for themselves in the 
ruins of a forgotten and disappeared people. As a member 
of the Bree-folk, he is Friendly to those who approach in 
peace but if the Company has attacked his folk he will be 
ill-disposed to them (a starting value of Askance).
Expectations
• 
+1: Friendly faces are welcome (if any of the heroes 
hail from the Shire, Bree or are Woodmen).
• 
-1: No need for weapons among friends (if the 
Company approaches with weapons drawn).
• 
-2: Suspicious Hiraval (this is automatically 
applied due to the strain that Hiraval puts on all 
negotiations).
8
What Lies Beneath

--- PAGE 104 ---
Eriador Adventures
104
Introduction
The Player-heroes are free to present themselves in the way 
they see fit. Elwin is True-hearted, and thus appreciates 
plain speech, possibly given by a spokesman. When 
the heroes are done making their introduction, Elwin 
introduces his companions:
“I am Elwin, an adventurer from Bree, and I am the leader 
of this group of... free spirits. The one who looks like he 
wants to stick a knife in you is Herbert, my right-hand 
man. Our Hobbit-lass with eyes of steel is Fay. Those 
ready to pin you with arrows,” he nods briefly towards the 
watchtower, “are Folulf and Arnulf, hailing from distant 
Wilderland. Now speak freely; why are you here?”
Interaction
Confronted by the real deal, Elwin and his aspiring 
adventurers adopt a competitive attitude towards the 
companions. They are easily awed by them, and will 
probably be very impressed if the companions start 
recounting something of their deeds, but at the same time 
they will feel the need to impress them on their part.
The Loremaster should consider the direction the 
conversation takes, to find the appropriate moment to set 
up one or more challenges, pitting one companion against 
one of the ‘brigands’. These challenges may be of different 
nature, from a drinking contest to a round of archery. Two 
examples follow:
• 
Fay challenges an archer in the Company. She places 
a full waterskin against a wall as a target. The target is 
AC 16 and has 5 hit points – the Player-hero goes first. 
If he scores a critical hit or does enough damage to 
destroy the waterskin, Fay declares herself beaten and 
congratulates the companion. Otherwise, Fay shoots 
an arrow. If she fails it is the companion’s turn and so 
on. If the companion wins the contest, this applies a 
+1 modifier to the Final Audience Check.
• 
Herbert draws his dagger and challenges a hero to a 
‘fake’ duel with knives. The contestants lunge, dodge and 
slash, trying to surprise their opponent, but refraining 
from actually doing any harm. The first contestant to 
succeed at three attack rolls is declared the winner. If 
Herbert wins, his final strike is a real thrust, dealing 5 
points of piercing damage! If the Player-hero wins, add 
a +2 modifier to the Final Audience check.
Final Audience Check
Once the audience has reached a conclusion, make a 
Final Audience Check to determine Elwin’s reaction to the 
Company:
Failure: Elwin is unconvinced that the Company have 
the right to force him to leave, however Hiraval threatens 
an armed confrontation, demanding that the ‘brigands’ 
surrender their weapons and armour. If the Company 
goes along with Hiraval’s threat then Elwin commands 
his friends to drop their weapons; he does not want them 
to die this way. The companions have gained an enemy, 
and it is possible that Elwin and his friends will actually 
turn into real brigands one day, failing to find another 
opportunity to gain fame and fortune. If the heroes deny 
Hiraval, he erupts in a rage and can be calmed down only 
after a prolonged effort.
Success by 0-2: The companions succeed in negotiating 
peacefully with Elwin, and he promises to leave the manor 
the next day. Hiraval does not say anything against the 
decision, but he secretly feels betrayed by the heroes and 
takes another step towards darkness.
Success by 3-5: Elwin agrees to whatever the companions 
proposed to him, and Hiraval seems to go along with the 
decision.
Success by 6+: The audience has progressed splendidly, 
and Elwin and his men are impressed by the heroes so 
much they propose to help them in their task, should they 
consent for them to join up temporarily. Hiraval seems 
gladdened by their presence, as if the meeting made him 
think of how many strangers became friends under that 
same roof in the years when the manor stood intact and 
his family ruled.
- Part Four - 
A Night of Treachery 
and Madness
This part of the adventure considers that Elwin and his 
men are still at the manor, either as prisoners of the 
Company or as friends. 
During that same night, following the meeting, the malice 
of the shade Húldrahir threatens the companions and

--- PAGE 105 ---
105
Elwin’s men. The hungry ghost seeks to stir everyone up 
against each other, in particular acting against those 
whose spirit it has weakened already: Hiraval and Herbert. 
Húldrahir may naturally also target a Player-hero, should 
his Shadow rating make him a suitable victim.
In the case of Herbert and Hiraval, the consequences 
of Húldrahir’s malicious actions are detailed in the 
paragraphs Breaking Herbert and Breaking Hiraval, 
respectively. Ideally, the two episodes will take place 
shortly one after the other, in a chaotic crescendo. 
If a hero is targeted, Húldrahir employs its Grieve 
special ability to increase its victim’s Shadow point score 
or its Relentless Dread lair action to trigger a bout of 
madness, should a hero fail their Wisdom saving throw 
(see Húldrahir’s description on page 108). Any bout of 
madness triggered will see Húldrahir taunt the heroes to 
enter the secret crypt.
Breaking Herbert
Long, finger-like shadows stretch out amongst the manor 
ruins. As the companions and the ‘brigands’ finish eating 
a supper of weak broth around the fire, Herbert drifts into 
an uneasy sleep. As he lies by the fire, the evil will of the 
shade Húldrahir reaches out to the young man, filling his 
dreams with fear and delusions.
A hero with an appropriate trait (Wary, Keen-eyed or 
similar) may be allowed to make a DC 13 Wisdom 
(Insight) check: a success notices that Herbert’s rest 
seems very troubled; if the issue is raised with Elwin or 
Fay, they can both confirm that Herbert has been sleeping 
fitfully since they started staying inside the manor. If any 
companion is keeping an eye on Herbert, a few hours later 
he wakes up and approaches the group leader to engage 
him in small talk. He will tell the hero that he cannot sleep 
and will stand watch instead. 
When no one is spying on him openly, Herbert suddenly 
and silently plunges a dagger deep into Elwin’s chest, 
killing him!
If the companions do not witness this foul deed, Herbert 
returns to his resting place and raises the alarm claiming 
that he has just witnessed one of the Player-heroes kill 
their leader…
A Confrontation
As the alarm is sounded, Herbert points to the Player-
hero he has accused (the Loremaster should choose the 
character acting as the Company’s leader or Guide), while 
Fay cries out in dismay and rushes towards the stricken 
Elwin. With the camp in disarray, Herbert shouts, “I saw 
him just now. He buried his knife deep in Elwin’s chest”.
The companions need to think fast, as Hiraval sees the 
opportunity to finally get rid of these ‘brigands’ with the 
help of the companions – the Ranger quickly sides with 
the Player-heroes and draws his long sword, ready for 
battle. Seeing the impending threat, Fay, Folulf, Arnulf and 
the deranged Herbert are left without a choice and must 
stand against the Company.
The Loremaster may allow one of the following options 
before the battle begins:
• 
A hero succeeding at a DC 13 Intelligence (Riddle) 
check will notice that Herbert’s scabbard is empty, 
the weapon now lodged in Elwin’s chest. If accused, 
Herbert shrugs, stating that the Player-hero must 
have taken it from him while he slept. Unconvinced, 
Fay will attack Herbert as the fight with the heroes 
erupts, killing him instantly with a well-placed arrow 
to the back.
• 
The Player-heroes may attempt to cow Elwin’s band 
with a DC 20 Charisma (Intimidation) check, 
counting on their superior strength. If the companions 
succeed, both Folulf and Arnulf lay down their 
weapons. If this happens, Fay takes the chance to 
vanish into the darkness. If left alone, Herbert will 
madly charge into the companions, only to be cut 
down mercilessly by Hiraval.
If a full fight with Elwin’s men erupts, the battle will 
probably be short and bloody. The ‘brigands’ will fight 
desperately, believing they are facing the murderers of 
their leader and friend.
As the battle reaches its tragic conclusion, the Loremaster 
should consider a Shadow points increase for each 
companion, as killing Elwin’s men qualifies as a misdeed 
(the amount must be weighed by the Loremaster, as the 
circumstances are certainly going to vary wildly for each 
group of players).
8
What Lies Beneath

--- PAGE 106 ---
Eriador Adventures
106
If that was not enough, when the unfortunate fight with 
Elwin’s men finally reaches its conclusion, the heroes 
start perceiving an oppressing presence weighing down 
upon their spirit, a feeling that finally hints at something 
more sinister working amongst the shadows of the manor. 
All companions must pass a Corruption check: a DC 15 
Wisdom saving throw, those who fail gain a point of 
Shadow.
A Dark Night
As the night deepens, a storm breaks overhead, distant 
thunder quickly followed by a light rain that progressively 
worsens.
If any of Elwin’s men are still alive, they will now talk 
of many nights here filled with restless sleep and dark 
dreams. A darkness rests over this place, they say, even 
on the brightest day. With a little cajoling, Folulf or Arnulf 
will blame the tragic occurrences of the last few hours on 
this darkness, adding that they are now certain that the 
manor is cursed, and that they all should leave. At these 
words, Hiraval will burst into laughter, his apparent mirth 
turning quickly into scorn. The Ranger will again accuse 
the ‘brigands’ for everything that occurred so far, and bid 
them leave his house, if they do not like it here.
Dark Portents
In the middle of the night, Húldrahir reaches out to the 
sleeping adventurers, darkening their dreams, and puts 
fear in the hearts of those who are awake.
Everyone sleeping must pass another Corruption Check: a 
DC 15 Wisdom saving throw (those who saw the uncanny 
signs carved in the stones outside have Disadvantage). 
Those who fail the test gain a Shadow point and dream of 
walking towards the wooden door. As they approach they 
hear a chilling voice, as if carried on the wind:
“To my house of old you roam,
Usurpers to my noble throne,
To rouse me from my longest sleep,
Your blood and sinew mine to keep!”
If anyone is keeping watch, they must make a DC 15 
Wisdom saving throw or become Frightened of the storm, 
as the thunder crashes with such unnatural violence that 
the companions believe they can perceive an evil wrath 
behind it. Those who fail cover their ears in fear, while 
those who still have their wits about them are allowed 
to make a DC 20 Wisdom (Perception) check: on a 
success, a hero hears the splintering of shattered wood 
and cracked stone.
If the Player-heroes wake Hiraval to discuss these sounds 
and dreams, the Ranger seems oblivious to them at all. 
Edrahil sleeps soundly as the companions discuss these 
events and Hiraval will not wake the boy under any 
circumstances. “Let the child rest,” the Ranger will say. 
“He has seen much these past days. Too much for a boy 
of his years.” Characters succeeding at a DC 10 Wisdom 
(Insight) check will see that dark circles underline 
Hiraval’s eyes and his brow is furrowed with concern. 
Should a character raise these issues he waves them away 
with a comment: “Dark eyes and furrowed brow are a 
Ranger’s lot in life.”
Should any Player-hero mention or especially recite the 
poem heard in dream, then Hiraval’s reaction will be more 
severe. Quickly rising to his feet, he hisses, “Do not speak 
aloud of such things in the dark watches of the night!” 
After a terrible moment passes, the Ranger composes 
himself and sits down again, raising his hand in placation. 
“Please, be still. I am troubled by mere thoughts and will 
speak of them in the morning, but no sooner! Now sleep”.
Breaking Hiraval
Unknown to the Player-heroes, Hiraval has suffered far 
greater than everyone else at the hands of the restless 
Spectre haunting the manor. By now, the cursed Ranger 
believes he has struck a bargain with Húldrahir that will 
see the curse laid upon his family be finally lifted. All the 
Ranger needs to do is to bring his own son Edrahil down 
into the crypts of his family…
As the turn of Hiraval to keep watch comes, Húldrahir 
instructs him to bring Edrahil to him. Carrying the 
sleeping boy, the Ranger will make his way towards the 
entrance to the crypt and their doom. If the Player-heroes 
have no one on watch with Hiraval during such time, then 
they will notice his absence and that of his son only when 
the Ranger is but a shadow in the night.
If someone is awake when Hiraval takes Edrahil, then 
questioning the Dúnadan will result in no response: the 
Ranger’s eyes are fixed to a distant point, his face set. 
The Ranger must be tackled physically to prevent him 
2
8

--- PAGE 107 ---
107
from entering the crypt, something that the assembled 
companions succeed at automatically. If a companion 
tries to stop Hiraval by himself, he needs to succeed in 
an opposed Athletics check; upon a failure, the Ranger 
pushes away the intruder and presses on.
Edrahil’s Fate as a Revelation Episode
If you are using the optional Eye of Mordor rules 
found within the Rivendell Region Guide, you might 
tie the fate of Hiraval’s son to a Revelation episode. 
If such an occurrence is due to a failed Eye Awareness 
check, then the Ranger might disappear with his son 
without the Player-heroes being given the chance to 
stop him at all. In such a case, the heroes will be left 
with just the option of running after the deranged 
Ranger, in the hope of finding him in time.
A much harsher application of the principle that a 
Revelation episode always worsens the Company’s 
predicament, might be that of having the attempts 
at saving Edrahil actually harm the boy, or even kill 
him. The boy might fall from his father’s embrace 
and break his neck upon a stone as a companion tries 
to restrain or attack Hiraval, or an attack aimed at 
Hiraval might hit his son instead.
Into the Crypt
This part of the adventure is written on the assumption 
that Hiraval has brought Edrahil into the crypt, and has 
been followed by the Player-heroes soon after.
The storm rages around the companions as they make 
their way to the crypt. Thunder shakes the ground, 
lightning flashes across the black sky and the rain beats 
down upon them all, quickly drenching their clothes. 
Reaching the gateway, they discover the door has been 
torn asunder; charred and blasted wood lies scattered 
around the archway while the long iron hinges are bent 
and twisted like an old crone’s fingers, beckoning in the 
dark.
As the companions stand before the opening, the storm 
suddenly quiets and the rain stops, its place taken by 
a freezing wind that rushes past them and beyond the 
blasted crypt door. The light from the companions’ torches 
flickers in the night and long shadows dance about them 
as they take the stairs and descend into darkness.
Inner Darkness
Fear flows out of the opening like a cold vapour. The 
flight of centuries-old steps climbs down into the ground. 
As the companions make their descent they see the light 
of a torch ahead mixed with an eerie, sickly glow. Each 
companion must make a Corruption check — a DC 20 
Wisdom saving throw for those who previously heard the 
poem in their dreams or DC 15 for those who did not. 
Heroes that fail are overwhelmed by a sense of ill-omen – 
they gain a point of Shadow.
The companions follow the steep and low-ceilinged 
stairway into the earth for about sixty feet before they step 
out into a large room, approximately thirty feet in width 
and stretching out into the darkness ahead. Many torches 
illuminate the chamber, as they hang from iron-wrought 
wall brackets. In two columns stretching out beyond 
the light cast by the torches are the tombs of Hiraval’s 
ancestors, laid to rest over many centuries under their 
manor home.
But it is something else that grabs the attention of the 
companions. Twenty feet away, between the two columns 
of tombs stands Hiraval, his back to the approaching 
companions. Before him lies the boy Edrahil, his sleeping 
body stretched upon the floor. At the edge of torchlight 
stands a dark, vague figure wrapped in ghost-like and 
torn robes; and where a head should be, two points of 
sickly green light burning with wicked intent.
“…Your blood and sinew mine to keep,” a dreary voice 
rasps. “Slay the boy and the spell will be broken, the 
Morgul-lord’s curse finally lifted. For too many centuries 
the wind howling in the halls of your fathers has been 
black.”
A claw-like hand reaches out, pointing to the child and 
you see Hiraval visibly shaking and trembling, moaning 
as if in pain, as he draws his sword and looks down upon 
Edrahil.
The Doom of Hiraval
The ghost-like apparition in the crypt is the Spectre of 
Húldrahir, an ancestor of Hiraval who once was cursed 
8
What Lies Beneath

--- PAGE 108 ---
Eriador Adventures
108
by the Lord of the Ringwraiths himself, the Witch-king of 
Angmar. The restless spirit haunts the ruins of his former 
abode, and drives to madness all those who linger here. 
Suffering from the Witch-king’s curse himself, Hiraval has 
been slowly consumed by the dark presence of his ancestor, 
and he is now on the verge of taking the last step towards 
madness that will end his line and curse him forever.
When this finally comes to pass, the will of the Lord of the 
Ringwraiths will be done, and the shade of Húldrahir will 
be all that remains of a once proud and noble family.
The scene set before the companions has them facing 
the Spectre, but also a deranged Hiraval. The Ranger is 
under the thrall of the Spectre and is considered to be 
suffering the effects of a bout of madness: he will attack 
anyone who tries to prevent him from killing the boy (the 
characteristics of the Ranger are on page 95).
With all that has gone before, the Player-heroes should 
now be conscious that the Ranger is not in control of his 
actions and might wish to stop him without killing him, 
perhaps using non-lethal attacks. Other options include 
attempting to disarm him and then wrestling him to the 
ground (using the Grappling rules).
Disarming Grapple
A creature that has a target Grappled can attempt 
to disarm the target by making an opposed Strength 
(Athletics) check. A target that is holding a weapon 
with two or more hands has Advantage on the check. If 
the creatures are different sizes, the smaller creature 
has Disadvantage on the check. A failed check means 
that the creature that attempted the disarm takes 
damage from the weapon.
Húldrahir the Spectre will employ his Grieve and Visions 
of Torment special abilities to harm them, along with 
its Relentless Dread lair action to force the heroes into 
bouts of madness.
If the companions do not do something about it, Hiraval 
will kill Edrahil before their eyes, and then break under 
the weight of his demented deed and succumb fully to the 
Shadow: he will turn against the heroes, sword in hand, 
and attack them relentlessly, searching for release in a 
quick death.
Húldrahir
Medium Undead
STR 
1 (-5)
DEX 
17 (+3)
CON 
19 (+4)
INT 
10 (+0)
WIS 
12 (+1)
CHA 
12 (+1)
Armour Class 16 (Deadly Elusiveness)
Hit Points 102 (12d8+48)
Speed 0 ft, fly 50 ft (hover)
Damage Resistances Acid, fire, lightning, thunder; 
non-magical bludgeoning, piercing and slashing
Damage Immunities cold, necrotic, poison
Condition Immunities Charmed, Exhaustion, 
Frightened, Grappled, Paralysed, Petrified, Poisoned, 
Prone, Restrained
Senses blindsight 30 ft, passive Perception 11
Languages Westron, Sindarin
Challenge 7 (2,900 XP)
Deadly Elusiveness. Húldrahir’s AC is 16.
Ghost-form. Húldrahir is insubstantial and cannot 
be easily hurt by normal means. See the damage and 
condition resistances and immunities above.
Incorporeal Movement. Húldrahir can move through 
other creatures and objects as if they were difficult 
terrain. He takes 5 (1d10) force damage if he ends his turn 
inside an object.
Legendary. Húldrahir has 2 Legendary actions. At the 
end of another creature’s turn he can spend a Legendary 
action to use his Visions of Torment ability. Spent 
Legendary actions are regained at the start of his turn.
Relentless Dread (Lair Action). Húldrahir may use his 
lair action to force a single creature within 60 feet to make 
a Wisdom saving throw with the DC equal to its current 
Shadow score. If the creature fails, it experiences a bout of 
madness at the beginning of its next turn.
Actions
Grieve (Recharge 5-6). As an action, Húldrahir may 
force each opponent within 30 ft to make a DC 15 
Wisdom saving throw or experience a harrowing sorrow, 
causing it to gain 3 (1d4+1) Shadow points. If the target 
rolls a 1 on the saving throw, the target is also Stunned 
until the end of Húldrahir’s next turn.
Visions of Torment. As an action, Húldrahir can force 
one target within 60 feet to make a DC 15 Wisdom 
saving throw or take psychic damage equal to 2 (1d4) plus 
its total Shadow score.

--- PAGE 109 ---
109
Húldrahir, Dúnadan Spectre
Húldrahir appears as a tall, ghost-like figure shrouded in 
a threadbare cloak and rusted chain armour, once finely 
wrought. Beneath a helm of silvered metal his eyes burn 
with a green and sickly light from where his head should 
be. If the heroes cannot defeat the Spectre, at least its plans 
may be thwarted by saving Hiraval and his son.
- Epilogue -
Húldrahir Defeated
Achieving victory at Hiraval’s manor may come at a great 
cost. The body count may be high, including some (or all!) 
among Elwin’s men, or Hiraval and his son Edrahil. 
If the Ranger and his son (or one among them) end up 
dead, the Loremaster will likely have the companions gain 
a number of additional points of Shadow, based on the 
circumstances of their demise and the type of relationship 
the heroes had with the deceased; 1 or 2 points should be 
enough, to represent the guilt and regret felt by the Player-
heroes.
If Hiraval survives his son, the Ranger will be wracked 
with grief. He won’t survive the experience, unless the 
companions think of escorting him back to Rivendell, in 
order to rest and heal.
If Edrahil survives his father, the Player-heroes should feel 
duty-bound to bring him back to the safety of Rivendell. 
The boy will eventually recover but he will never forget. In 
years to come, Edrahil will become a Ranger, to redeem 
the name of his father and that of his family.
If Húldrahir is not defeated, the deaths of Hiraval and/
or Edrahil will spell the end for the ruins of the manor and 
the surrounding lands. The region will become a dark and 
blighted place, shunned by everyone who wanders across 
Eriador.
If the Spectre has been banished, the Ranger might leave 
the secret manor to the companions as a gift with his 
dying words. The ruins and the surrounding land can be 
set up as a holding with an initial Rating of +0 (see the 
rules for holdings on page 9 of the Mirkwood Campaign).
Should both Hiraval and Edrahil survive, the Ranger will 
have miraculously succeeded in reclaiming his heritage. 
Within weeks, other Rangers and allies will arrive at the 
ruins of the former manor and a small settlement of tents 
will quickly spring up with more permanent structures 
added during the later years. Although it will never reach 
the past glories of the manor, the settlement will prove 
vital to the Rangers as a waypoint just north of Weathertop 
and a place to recuperate and replenish supplies.
What Lies Beneath

--- PAGE 110 ---
Eriador Adventures
110
- Shadows over - 
Tyrn Gorthad 
For heroes of level 9 or 10
• 
When: The Company starts this quest in the summer 
of 2975, though this can be moved a few years forward 
or backwards as necessary.
• 
Where: The adventure starts in Rivendell, but 
eventually ranges across much of Eriador, from 
Angmar, to the edge of the Old Forest, before eventually 
ending in the Barrow-downs. 
• 
What: Barrow-wights are passing far beyond the 
Barrow-downs and growing bolder all the time. Gandalf 
the Grey asks the characters to help him discover what 
can be done to put them to rest permanently. 
• 
Why: All of Eriador is in mortal danger from free-
roaming Barrow-wights. Worse still, they represent the 
vanguard for the return of the Witch-king of Angmar. 
Rivendell would certainly be one of the primary targets 
for such an army.
• 
Who: The ultimate aim of the quest is finding a way 
to help Gandalf permanently deal with the Barrow-
wights of Tyrn Gorthad.
• 
Themes: All of the Company’s efforts in defending 
the North now come to the final test. Gandalf has 
discovered the Witch-king’s plan, but only heroes who 
are willing to sacrifice all will stand triumphant.
Foreword
Shadows over Tyrn Gorthad is structured a bit differently 
than most of the other adventures in this volume. It is not 
played out over a single Adventuring phase, indeed, it will 
take several in-game years before the Company is ready 
to confront the danger at the heart of this adventure; but 
ready or not, they will have to act before the danger grows 
too great for all of Eriador.
After being approached by Gandalf the Grey to undertake 
a vitally important quest, the Company will travel across 
Eriador, frequently into great peril, as they seek out key 
pieces of ancient lore that they will need to set right a 
terrible menace. They will learn more than even most 
of the Wise know about the Barrow-downs, in Sindarin 
“Tyrn Gorthad”; a place of sacred burial mounds, now 
long haunted by evil spirits. The spells that once bound 
the undead to their tombs are fading with the waxing 
power of the Shadow. Gandalf needs the Company’s help 
to gather the lore he needs and, ultimately, protect him 
while he attempts to enact them anew. Time, though, is 
not on their side. The characters will have just over two 
years to gather the knowledge that will help the Grey 
Pilgrim enact the rites.
Stout Hearts
Gandalf will not approach a Company that hasn’t 
already impressed him – though they may not know it, 
or have ever met him personally before. Before starting 
this quest characters should have already completed 
several of the other Eriador Adventures, particularly 
Nightmares of Angmar, or equally harrowing 
Loremaster originals. Alternatively they may be 
adventurers from Wilderland who impressed Gandalf 
during the events of the Mirkwood Campaign.
Due to the staggered nature of this adventure, the 
heroes can begin their quest at level 8 or 9, but when 
they stand by Mithrandir on Tyrn Gorthad they should 
be level 10. The adventure will identify opportunities 
for the Loremaster to provide a Fellowship phase to 
allow opportunities for character improvement.
The Tale of Years
While running an ongoing campaign of Adventures in 
Middle-earth, Loremasters are encouraged to speak 
of news and tidings of distant events that come to the 
Company’s attention each year. The recent events in 
Eriador that will eventually lead to the opening of Shadows 
over Tyrn Gorthad should be introduced two years before 
the adventure proper begins.
Year 2973
In early autumn, dark rumours spread amidst the 
Dúnedain. Stories tell of how two Rangers dealt with the 
threat of a Barrow-wight that was seen wandering along 
a street leading to Bree. If the story is to be given credit, it 
relates a most unusual occurrence.

--- PAGE 111 ---
111
Year 2974
In the spring, several witnesses see a ghostly apparition 
wander into the northern reaches of Buckland. A group 
of Rangers investigate the matter, and reportedly destroy 
a Barrow-wight before it could ford the Brandywine into 
the Shire. The fight attracts the attention of several Hobbit 
Shirriffs, but the Rangers manage to conceal their deed. 
Word is passed through “unobtrusive” channels to the 
Master of Buckland that he should set a few more stout 
souls to watching the boundaries.
In the late winter, a Ranger named Cirion (alternatively, 
a friend of the Company’s – see page 113) is attacked and 
killed by a Barrow-wight at the base of the Weather Hills. 
The creature then flees west before other Rangers can 
track it.
Year 2975 (In this year, Gandalf asks for the 
Company’s assistance in the early summer.)
A Hobbit girl from Bree loses her way and wanders into 
the Barrow-downs at night early in the autumn. She 
survives the experience, and upon her return she tells the 
tale of how she found refuge atop one of the hills, and how 
a Barrow-wight came for her, but did not get near until 
daybreak. 
The story swiftly became the talk of the town in Bree. 
The Company first hear this tale told in late spring or 
early summer of 2976, unless their adventures took them 
somewhere near Bree (see Mirabella’s Song on page 131). 
Year 2976
 In the spring, a determined group of Rangers fights off a 
group of Barrow-wights wandering along the East Road. 
The Rangers speak with some apprehension of how close 
the Wights were getting to Weathertop, and how difficult 
it was for them to stop them.
In the summer, Rangers watching the Shire report ghostly 
figures spying the land of the Hobbits from a distance. 
Year 2977
More and more witnesses report seeing Barrow-wights 
in full daylight. If the undead are not contained by this 
year, then the entire North will be plunged into shadow 
and despair.
Adventuring Phase
This adventure is divided into eight parts, but the Company 
must make choices as to which threads of Shadow-lore 
they wish to tug upon. Correspondingly, there are portions 
of Shadows over Tyrn Gorthad that some heroes may 
never see. Parts Four, Five and Six are optional.
Part One – The Vigilance of Mithrandir
The first part of the adventure describes Gandalf’s fears 
and sees him asking the Company if they will undertake a 
quest to retrieve vital information about how the Barrow-
wights of Tyrn Gorthad were summoned and bound to the 
Barrow-downs.
Part Two – Return to Angmar
This section deals with the long journey from Rivendell 
to the Grey Waste of Angmar. The Company may have to 
deal with fierce weather and fiercer foes along the way.
Part Three – The Valley of the Dead
In the easternmost reaches of the Mountains of Angmar 
rests the valley of Nan Gorthrim. There, a sorcerous tower 
holds the secrets that the Grey Pilgrim seeks, along with a 
lot of Goblins and a terrible Great Orc.
Part Four – On the Downs
Depending on what they learn in Rivendell, the Company 
may wish to journey to the Barrow-downs to study them 
and learn all that they can about them in the hopes of 
helping Gandalf with what needs to be done.
Part Five – The Hidden Vault at Fornost
The companions may decide to return to Fornost Erain, 
in order to find the hidden vault of the chronicler Egalmir 
and see what information they can learn from his family’s 
dedicated scholarship.
Part Six – Mirabella’s Song
The Company may hear rumours of a Hobbit girl who 
spent a night on the Barrow-downs and despite assault by 
a Barrow-wight, miraculously survived. Interviewing the 
young lady seems to be in order. 
Part Seven – Oldest & Fatherless
The heroes are sent by Gandalf the Grey to meet with Tom 
Bombadil and receive his blessings before they confront 
the Barrow-wights.
Shadows Over Tyrn Gorthad

--- PAGE 112 ---
Eriador Adventures
112
Part Eight – Casting Out The Shadow
Gandalf the Grey must reinforce the ancient magic that 
binds the Barrow-downs. He can only succeed if the 
Company manages to protect him from a horde of Barrow-
wights led by the terrible master of Tyrn Gorthad himself, 
the evil being known only as the Wight-king.
- Part One - 
The Vigilance of Mithrandir
It is the lot of all Wizards to ponder, ruminating over 
scraps of news and lore for long, wearying hours, far past 
the point when other less wisdom-filled heads would have 
sought their rest. Even so, Gandalf the Grey is far more 
frequently given to brooding than others, and with good 
reason, for his cares are greater. Tidings from the west 
have been troubling of late: Barrow-wights have been seen 
beyond the borders of the Barrow-downs…
As the Grey Pilgrim’s thoughts once lingered in the East, 
contemplating the dangers of a Dragon running rampant 
throughout the North, they have recently, unexpectedly, 
turned to the West and not just towards his friends in the 
Shire, but to the dark land not so far from their borders. 
If the Dragon of Erebor could have been used to serve the 
Shadow’s purposes, how much worse could come from 
an army of the undead rising in the very heart of Eriador?
Little, in truth, is known of what really happened to Tyrn 
Gorthad. Many hold that the Witch-king of Angmar was 
behind its blight (see The History of Tyrn Gorthad below), 
but where is the proof of this? And why did it take him 
so very long to enact his evil against a people that were 
The History of Tyrn Gorthad
Characters with the appropriate traits will doubtless 
want to know exactly what they do know about the 
history of the Barrow-downs. What is generally known 
by the folk of Eriador is that the Barrow-downs are a 
place to avoid if you wish to stay alive. The perpetually 
fog-shrouded hills are covered with grave markers 
so weathered that whomever they once venerated or 
whatever they once represented is long lost to time. 
Stone doors in the sides of the hills mark the greatest 
of the tombs, but robbers that seek after such things 
are considered to be fools, one and all. The barrows 
are cursed and their owners are restless. Nothing good 
ever comes of interfering with the dead. If a traveller 
must pass through the Barrow-downs, they go quickly 
and only by day. Generally folks take the extra time to 
travel around them, especially since the great East Road 
lies immediately north of the Downs and the Old Forest 
borders them to the west.
Those whose lore or memory reaches back into the past 
(those with the appropriate Lore traits or class features) 
may be considered to possess a knowledge comparable 
to the information about the Barrow-downs presented 
in the Rivendell Region Guide on page 62, and here 
further detailed.
Tyrn Gorthad was once one of the most sacred sites in all 
the West. The Great Barrows were originally built by 
Men living in Eriador before the Men of the West came 
to the shores of Middle-earth. Their funerary tradition 
was maintained by Elendil and his heirs, until the wars 
with Angmar many centuries later. 
When in the year 1409 of the Third Age the armies of 
the Witch-king destroyed the Tower of Amon Sûl and 
ravaged the kingdom of Cardolan, the few surviving 
Dúnedain took refuge in the hills of Tyrn Gorthad where 
they made their homes for two more centuries. Then, a 
terrible plague from the south devastated their numbers. 
Not long after, evil spirits came from dark places and 
slaughtered or drove out all that remained.
From that time forth, the Barrow-wights ruled the 
Barrow-downs and the Dúnedain only tread there with 
great care. Many among the Wise and the Rangers of 
the North believe that the Witch-king of Angmar sent 
the evil spirits that dwell in the Barrow-downs. Others 
hold that the many deaths caused by the plague awoke 
something sinister that already slumbered beneath the 
barrows.

--- PAGE 113 ---
113
already beaten? Why did the greatest of the Nazgûl go to 
such lengths, if not part of a grander scheme?
Gandalf the Grey slowly puffs away at his pipe, thinking, 
and a plan begins to form…
Elvish Singing & Dark Tidings
The Company has been invited to Rivendell, to take part 
in a celebration commemorating the anniversary of a 
legendary victory from the First Age. There is to be a great 
deal of singing, along with feasting, and the telling of 
ancient legends that are seldom recounted in the twilight 
years of the Third Age.
The valley of Imladris is dotted with great silver and gold 
lanterns that shine like stars even by day, but more so 
at night when they flare bright holding back the dark, 
save where the Elves have purposefully dimmed them to 
create a continuous twilight amidst the trees. Wine and 
good cheer fills the valley, along with fair voices raised 
in hymns to Elbereth. The characters all have glasses of 
whatever they most like to drink thrust into their hands as 
they wander down towards the House of Elrond.
The companions are hailed by friends and acquaintances 
(the more so if Master Elrond is one of their Patrons or 
Rivendell has been opened as a sanctuary) with a few 
asking what news they bring. A successful DC 15 Wisdom 
(Insight) check notices that some of the Elves are hiding 
some sorrow. When asked at first, they avert saying it 
isn’t the time for grim tidings, but if pressed they will sadly 
note that news of the death of a Ranger who was greatly 
esteemed in Rivendell has recently come to the valley. His 
name was Cirion, a kindly Dúnadan, and he was well loved 
for both his wisdom and his singing voice. (If possible, this 
should instead be a Ranger the Player-heroes knew and 
liked – perhaps Randír from The Company of the Wain). 
They don’t know any of the details as yet, other than that 
he was apparently killed near the Weather Hills.
Master Elrond’s Summons
After the characters have had a few hours to enjoy 
themselves, perhaps during a break between tales, a 
messenger comes to them saying that Master Elrond 
requests their presence. The Player-heroes are led to a 
beautiful library on the second floor of the house, a room 
with enough comfortable chairs to serve as a meeting 
room. Elrond already stands in the room, holding a long 
tapering crystalline wine glass and turns, smiling, to greet 
the Company as they arrive.
“Ah, here they are. Welcome and thank you all for coming. 
May I present my dear friend, Mithrandir, or as he is 
frequently called in the North, Gandalf the Grey.”
Gandalf! There is not one child in the North that has not 
heard at least one remarkable tale about the Wandering 
Wizard. He steps out of the shadows of the room, where 
he was hidden in an alcove, and regards the Company 
with his penetrating dark eyes beneath long, bushy white 
eyebrows. He wears a simple grey cloak and his immense 
silver beard which hangs to his waist. In one hand he holds 
a glass twinned to the one Elrond is drinking from and 
with his other, he gestures towards a small assortment of 
similar ones along with a decanter of wine, while asking 
the Company to join them.
Motivation
Gandalf has already chosen the Company for his quest 
(whether they like it or not!) or he wouldn’t be meeting 
with them at all. The purpose of the audience is for him to 
learn just how far into his confidence Gandalf is willing 
to let the characters at this time. Far too often, treachery 
has undone his plans against the Shadow. What the 
Wizard has learned about the companions gives him 
hope, their past actions are inspiring, and the assessment 
of Master Elrond means much to him, but still, he must 
judge for himself how far he can trust them — this is vitally 
important, because Gandalf will have to place his life in 
their hands before the end…
Expectations
The following modifiers can be applied as the conversation 
progresses:
• 
+1 for the ancient enemies of the Shadow (if there are 
any High Elves or Dúnedain in the Company)
• 
+2 for the trust of the Wise (if Elrond, Radagast or 
another member of the Wise is a formal Patron of the 
party).
• 
+1 for being well-travelled (if the Company can speak 
accurately about locations like Angmar, Tyrn Gorthad, 
Dol Guldur or even Beorn’s house).
• 
-2 if pride clouds wisdom (if the companions do not 
admit ignorance when it is warranted and instead try 
to bluster their way past the Wizard’s questions).
6
8
Shadows Over Tyrn Gorthad

--- PAGE 114 ---
Eriador Adventures
114
Playing Gandalf the Grey
"Do not meddle in the affairs of Wizards, for they are 
subtle and quick to anger."
Stare right at members of the Company when they 
are talking to you, as if weighing every word. When 
considering your own words, stroke your long beard, 
or take slow, thoughtful puffs off your pipe. You have 
more cares than most will ever comprehend, yet mirth 
and hope still bubble up within you, appearing at 
unexpected times.
You can play the doddering old man if it suits you, 
but most times, you’re swift of action and razor sharp 
of tongue. You always know more than you let on. 
Always.
Introduction
Gandalf already knows perfectly well who the members 
of the Company are and has no particular need to hear 
their presentations embellished upon. All the companions 
need do is have a spokesman give their names (this will 
count as a success). A DC 15 Wisdom (Insight) check will 
easily reveal this. Otherwise, the speaker for the Company 
may make the standard Traditions check.
Interaction
After the group has become acquainted, Gandalf settles 
himself into one of the cushioned chairs surrounding the 
table, gesturing for the Company to do likewise. Elrond 
also sits, but for the most part, he only listens to the rest 
of the conversation, though he responds when spoken to; 
however, his keen glance seldom leaves the Company as 
they interact with the Wizard.
Gandalf steeples his fingers and asks: “What do you know 
of Barrow-wights?”
The Company can answer as they will. They may have 
faced such creatures during their adventures before, which 
they can recount (using the Story-telling trait is worth a +1 
Expectation modifier). Otherwise those with the Old Lore 
or Dark Secrets traits may bring up what they have heard 
about them: that they are undead, walking in the hollow 
places under the Great Barrows of Tyrn Gorthad. A Ranger 
can recall rumours, in Dúnedain circles, of a Barrow-
wight having been encountered outside Bree within the 
last few years.
When the party is finished, Gandalf says, “Late this past 
winter, a Ranger named Cirion was slain on the Weather 
Hills by a Barrow-wight, over a hundred miles from the 
Barrow-downs. Early last year, a Wight was destroyed 
inside the borders of the Shire. Within the last two years, 
another one was encountered on a street leading to Bree. 
One or two can be chance. Three?”
Gandalf pauses and looks about the room.
“You are, none of you, fools or you would not be here. The 
Dark Lord openly declared himself nearly three decades 
ago now, though his plots and agents were in motion 
long years before that. We cannot claim to know what is 
on his mind, but one thing is certain — Sauron would see 
the valley of Imladris dealt with once and for all, along 
with those who dwell within it. I once spent a very long 
time indeed thinking about how to remove a live Dragon 
from the North, lest it one day be used against the House 
of Elrond.”
“The Barrow-wights are an evil to which we have long 
grown accustomed and we think of them but little. Their 
recent restlessness made me start asking questions. 
This winter I woke to a sudden fear, one I had not yet 
considered: what if they are more than the cursed 
guardians of tombs? What if they are an army, sitting in 
the very heart of Eriador, awaiting their master’s call? I 
resolved to know more and opened my mind to Master 
Elrond.”
“Here in this place of lore I have discovered much, yet 
there might be more that is hidden from me, secreted 
where I cannot go without the Enemy immediately 
knowing; in the north, where the witch-realm of Angmar 
once stood. Now, I know you’ve been to Carn Dûm itself. 
A touchy business that, yet here you are. For the safety 
of all Eriador and this house, I must ask you to return to 
Angmar and retrieve the information I seek.”
Below are some of the Company’s likely questions and 
Gandalf’s responses:

--- PAGE 115 ---
115
What do you hope to learn?
“Many scholars and the wisest among the Dúnedain 
assume that it was the Witch-king who cursed the 
Barrow-downs. But there is no irrefutable proof of this, 
and I need more than speculations. If that proves to be 
the case, then I need to learn what sort of spells the Black 
Captain wrought in order to have any chance of undoing 
them.”
How do you know what you seek is there?
“After the fall of the Witch-king, much of his realm was 
destroyed. But a measure of lore about the lay of that land 
survived and was preserved here in Rivendell. Among the 
figured maps of Master Elrond there are some marking 
the location of many fastnesses and watchtowers that 
once stood throughout the Mountains of Angmar.”
“The location of one of such places, located furthest away 
from Carn Dûm, has been annotated by the Elven scribe 
who drew the map, and identified as ‘Nan Gorthrim’. 
As Master Elrond here can confirm, that is Sindarin for 
‘Valley of the Dead’, a name that other tales associate 
closely with the Witch-king and the working of sorcery.”
 What will we be looking for?
“I am seeking a writing, or maybe a collection of writings, 
inscribed using a peculiar set of symbols. They could be 
carved on stone walls, worked in metal or penned on rolls 
of parchment perhaps. I will show you drawings of such 
symbols and teach you how to recognise them.”
 Where is this Nan Gorthrim?
“North-east of Mount Gram, below one of the 
southeasternmost peaks of the mountains of Angmar. Its 
distance from Carn Dûm is another reason why I think it 
is the place we seek. The Witch-king needed a secret place, 
away from the chaos of ruling a kingdom and mustering 
armies of Orcs and Trolls.”
Why aren’t you coming with us?
“If I do not miss my guess, the stirring of the Barrow-
wights are the bidding of the Witch-king. Were I to enter 
his lands of old, he would know it. Against him I have not 
been measured, nor do I think it is the appointed hour for 
that conflict. I hope that you may draw no attention worse 
than his minions, which will be challenge enough.”
How much help are we going to receive?
“Master Elrond has already agreed to outfit our 
expedition. I shall accompany you to the edge of the 
wastes and there await your return.”
Final Audience Check
Make a final roll to determine how well the companions 
have impressed the Wizard. While Gandalf was fairly 
certain that the Company was his choice, the final 
outcome indicates just how far into his confidence the old 
conjurer is willing to bring them.
Failure: Gandalf is wary. Something is amiss with this 
Company: they seem to be somewhat less than he was 
led to believe, which makes him fear that the heroes 
have weaknesses that the Enemy will be ready to exploit. 
Gandalf is willing to accompany the characters, but will 
say little of what he thinks, spending most of his time 
studying them closely. He will escort the characters to the 
camp of the Dúnedain, but will leave promptly when the 
agreed-upon time is up.
Success by 0-5: Gandalf is satisfied with the Player-heroes. 
He confesses to them that he fears there might have been 
more encounters with the Barrow-wights beyond the 
borders of the Barrow-downs than have been signalled, 
and that they’ve been increasing yearly. He will lead the 
Company all the way to the shadow of Mount Gram, 
sharing much of what he knows and strange tales besides. 
He will await the Player-heroes’ return beyond the time he 
says he will. All companions double any Experience Award 
earned on the second leg of the journey (From the Last 
Bridge to the Hidden Camp of the Rangers, see page 118).
Success by 6+: Gandalf is impressed. The entry for 2-5 
applies, but all the characters will instead get double 
any Experience Awards earned on the entire journey as 
Gandalf will be particularly informative during the trip.
Gandalf and Elrond are aware they’ve just asked the 
Company to go into a great deal of peril on an uncertain 
mission with little reward. If the Company refuses, they’re 
disappointed but understanding. If this happens, Gandalf 
eventually determines he must go himself, despite 
the consequences. This has repercussions later in the 
adventure, however, the Loremaster may still contrive for 
the Company to get involved, see the end of Part Three – 
The Tower of Icy Flame on page 121 for details.
Shadows Over Tyrn Gorthad

--- PAGE 116 ---
Eriador Adventures
116
The Dark Heart of the Matter
If the Company agrees to undertake Gandalf’s quest, they 
spend a few weeks at Rivendell planning, going over old 
maps, talking to Elves that had been to Angmar long ago 
(including Glorfindel, whose recent foray in Nightmares of 
Angmar took him back to that realm), and speaking to a 
few Dúnedain who’ve been there more recently.
The general consensus is that things are getting worse in 
the North: the Shadow is slowly lengthening, Trolls are a 
growing menace, and there are tales of the restless dead 
across the land. If Captain Mormog was not dealt with, 
then the trolls are much worse and many a Dúnadan has 
been slain defending the simple folk from mixed warbands 
far from the Coldfells and the Ettenmoors.
Before the Company sets out, Gandalf makes sure to find 
the time to illustrate to the heroes the runic marks he is 
seeking. The Grey Pilgrim arranges for a private meeting 
with Erestor, Rivendell’s foremost expert on written 
languages, and one or two companions, those whose 
abilities distinguish them as the more scholarly types — 
heroes proficient in History or Lore or a relevant trait.
The chosen characters are subjected by Erestor to an 
erudite examination of the many tongues of the Elves, Men 
and Orcs that were ever used to weave spells of sorcery. 
The skilful scribe of Imladris delves deep into the subject, 
showing the characters several examples of manuscripts 
taken from the collection of Elrond. Then, Gandalf takes 
on the subject most pertinent to the quest at hand: the 
tongue of the Black Land. Erestor takes out a handful of 
withered scrolls, held by several waxen seals, and passes 
them over to Gandalf. With a worried look creasing his 
brow, the Wizard carefully proceeds to break the seals, 
and to unfold before the companions a number of sheets 
of parchment, their surface thickly covered by evil-looking 
runes arranged in spiralling patterns.
“In the Dark Years, Sauron devised a language for his 
servants to use.” Gandalf explains. “In his pride he 
envisioned a world united under his rule and populated 
by slaves knowing no other speech than his own. But 
Sauron knew many defeats, and the Black Speech of 
Mordor failed to spread even among his servants. Today, 
no Orcs know how to speak it, save for their captains and 
foremost champions, and they do so using a debased 
form, appropriate to their curses and profanities.
“Only the Nazgûl know the tongue of the Black Land in 
its ancient form, and only their Black Captain had the 
cunning to conceive and develop letters to write it.
“The writings you will look for are composed using the 
symbols that the Lord of the Nazgûl himself devised for the 
study and application of sorcery. These Morgul-runes are 
foul signs, created to carry the meaning of a detestable 
language and to preserve the power of ancient spells.”
Gandalf makes sure that everyone has had a good look 
at the scrolls, then he hastily rolls them up again, setting 
them aside.
“What I am asking of you is to bring back to Rivendell any 
scroll or book written using the runes of the Lord of Morgul, 
or to otherwise copy any such writing you encounter. Be 
careful, as such is the malevolence of these sorcerous 
runes that you might find yourself able to read them, even 
if you have never encountered such writ before. The Lord 
of the Ringwraiths used this ruse before to enthral many 
of his current servants.
8

--- PAGE 117 ---
117
“Let me repeat this: do not attempt to decipher the runes, 
and do not linger to look at them for too long. And if you 
find yourself able to comprehend their meaning, by no 
means utter any of the words they represent! Spells of 
ancient sorcery are not things to be trifled with…”
- Part Two - 
Return to Angmar
Summer has begun when the Company sets out from 
Rivendell accompanied by Gandalf the Grey. They all ride 
the best horses that the stables of Imladris had to offer: 
clever, swift and sure of foot. Their packs are filled with 
provisions and their horses are laden with full sets of winter 
equipment for each of the companions. The Company does 
not need to make an Embarkation Roll, they automatically 
begin With Hopeful Hearts and Clear Purpose.
The Journey
The first leg of the journey takes the Company west from 
Rivendell to the south-western end of the Trollshaws and 
the Last Bridge.
On the second leg of their trip, they head almost directly 
north across the Lone-lands of Eriador, veering a little west 
so as not to come too close to Mount Gram. The Rangers 
of the North have a small outpost there, hidden amidst the 
hills along the edge of Angmar’s waste. There Gandalf will 
remain with the horses as the companions set out on foot 
north-east towards the supposed location of the valley of 
Nan Gorthrim.
The Eye of Mordor
If you are using the optional Eye of Mordor rules found 
within the Rivendell Region Guide, any Revelation 
Episodes occurring in Shadows Over Tyrn Gorthad 
will likely feature the undead; either the Barrow-
wights themselves or other evil spirits that the will of 
the Witch-king has stirred against the Company.
From Rivendell to The Last Bridge
The Company heads west along the East Road making 
good time. Brightly coloured butterflies flit across their 
path and it’s hard to imagine that there are troubles 
elsewhere in the world. Gandalf is mostly lost in thought, 
though he eventually responds cheerfully if spoken to.
6
n
a
Rivendell
E
c The Angle
The Troll-Hole 
E
The Last 
Bridge
Castle Hill 
E
E
The Refuge of 
the Dúnedain
n
Lone-lands
Mount Gram
The Peak of Mount Gram
The Grey Waste 
o
o
Mountains of Angmar
o
E
Golfimbul’s Gully 
E
E
The Burial Bog
E
n
The Camp of 
the Dúnedain
E
Nan Gorthrim
Shadows Over Tyrn Gorthad

--- PAGE 118 ---
Eriador Adventures
118
• 
120 miles lie between Rivendell and the Last Bridge. 
Fair company and swift horses on a good road reduce 
this to a mere 2 days… the Peril Rating is 2, and the 
companions face 1d2 Journey Events.
Suggested Journey Events
Travelling with the Grey Pilgrim along a sunny road 
in the summer doesn’t exactly conjure up thoughts of 
“danger” other than from an overly hot sun, but the Wild 
is still the Wild. See A Barren and Pathless Country in the 
Rivendell Region Guide (page 122). If Captain Mormog 
still commands the trolls of the North, you may want to 
present Trouble at the Gate, below.
Trouble at the Gate
As the companions merrily ride along, they spy a group of 
travellers ahead but a tangled mass of trees and boulders 
on the Road divides the Company and the group. Those 
heroes who have encountered Berk’s gate before might 
recognise it as such, but this is a much larger and more 
elaborate construction. Heroes who wish to help must 
make Strength (Athletics) checks. If at least half the 
Company succeeds then the blockage is dealt with well 
before nightfall and the hearty thanks of the travellers 
grants each successful hero Inspiration. If the Company 
fails then Berk and three Hill Trolls wait in the forest.
From The Last Bridge to the Hidden 
Camp of the Dúnedain
The Company passes north over green grasslands and 
wooded hills all but abandoned by man. These lands 
clearly once held many people, for ruins dot the landscape, 
but they are all covered in greenery now. The summer sun 
grows steadily colder and soon ceases to give any cheer as 
the characters continue over the grasslands to the wastes 
south of Angmar.
• 
This leg of the journey is 160 miles over pathless 
wilderness. Fortunately, Eriador is green in the 
summer and the rolling hills make for fast going. It 
takes 12 days to reach the secret refuge west of the 
long shadow of Mount Gram. The Peril Rating is 4 and 
the companions face 1d2+1 Journey Events.
Suggested Journey Events
The farther the Company travels north, the more their 
gloom increases and the terrain, which started bright green, 
slowly fades to a dull grey and turns increasingly hostile.
Unfriendly Eyes (A Chance Encounter or The Enemy 
Abroad)
Gandalf brings his horse to an abrupt halt, his gaze set 
sharply to the east. He suddenly leaps off his horse, swiftly 
pulling it into the cover of a copse of trees, while telling 
the Company in a low terse voice, “Swiftly, into the trees. 
Hide!” All the character must make either an Athletics or 
Stealth check to swiftly conceal themselves. A dust cloud 
appears in the distance and sharp eyed characters can see 
a hunting party of Orcs from Mount Gram running over 
the hills.
Note any failures – the characters won’t be attacked at this 
time, but the Orcs scent them on the wind… and recognise 
the smell on the waste on the next leg of the Company’s 
journey! (See Stalking Orcs, on the following page).
The Camp of the Dúnedain
The refuge is hidden in a small gully, beneath a natural 
optical illusion. It appears to be nothing more than a few 
boulders set amidst some sparse trees, but if approached 
at just the right angle and taking the right turn, a maze of 
stones (with several dead ends) leads down into a small 
natural cavern. The horses must enter one at a time, 
but there is more than enough room for them, plus the 
Company and their gear. A small natural stream runs 
along part of the cavern, which Gandalf indicates is safe 
to drink from. No one else is currently there, but the place 
looks like it’s occupied from time to time.
Gandalf kindles a warm fire and tells the companions tales 
of heroes long past, whose deeds have been forgotten by 
all but him. The voice of the Grey Pilgrim softly lulls them 
into a deep sleep. In the early morning the companions 
awake with a surprising zest, as if they slept on deep 
mattresses: each hero receives the benefits of a long rest.
After breakfast, the Wizard passes over a rough map 
showing the location of Nan Gorthrim, handing to the 
scholarly heroes he selected for the task several rolls of 
newly scraped parchment and writing implements.
 
“We come to it at last. I shall await you here. If you have 
not returned after eight weeks, I shall deem that you are 
not returning at all. Know that I would not ask this of any 
of you, if it was not of the greatest importance. I will do 
what I can here to keep unfriendly eyes off you. Go quickly, 
quietly, and with my blessing.”
6

--- PAGE 119 ---
119
From the Camp of the Dúnedain to 
Nan Gorthrim
The final part of the Company’s journey is by far the most 
dangerous. The characters swiftly pass into the barren 
lands that mark the southern outer reaches of Angmar 
and eventually into the perilous region known as the 
Grey Waste, a desolate country filled with grey scrub and 
stunted, gnarled trees. It is swiftly obvious why it would 
have been dangerous to bring horses here: the broken 
ground conceals countless holes and pockmarks where 
a horse’s leg would readily break. The sky is perpetually 
overcast and gloomy. It is hard to believe that it is 
summer in Eriador, for there is no trace of it here. (For 
more information about Angmar and the Grey Waste, see 
Rivendell Region Guide, page 53.)
• 
Travelling on foot from the hidden refuge of the 
Rangers to Nan Gorthrim is a daunting task, sure to 
put to the test the hardiest of adventurers. It’s a 100-
mile trek, heading north-east across the Grey Waste. 
It takes 25 days for the Company to reach the Valley 
of the Dead. The Peril Rating for this leg of the journey 
is 5 and it prompts 1d2+2 Journey Events along with 
a single Corruption check (a DC 15 Wisdom saving 
throw, failure means the hero gains 1 Shadow point) 
as the valley of Nan Gorthrim is considered Blighted 
(page 181 of the Player’s Guide). 
After a few days of travel over their wastes, snow drifts 
appear and flurries occasionally assail the Company. The 
cold gets steadily worse as the southernmost of Angmar’s
mountains grows continually higher on the horizon as 
they pass east.
Suggested Journey Events
The Grey Waste of Angmar is a Shadow Land and conceals 
many perils. See the Rivendell Region Guide, pages 53-54 
for further inspiration.
Blinding Glare (An Obstacle)
The Company is traversing a plain of bone-white ashes, 
and the light of the summer sun reflects upon its surface 
even if the sky is overcast. All companions must make a 
Wisdom (Survival) check to limit their exposure to the 
blinding luminescence. Failure indicates that they gain 
Disadvantage on any checks for the next Journey Event.
Mourning Shade (A Chance Encounter or In Need 
Of Help)
A grey-cloaked man approaches the heroes as twilight 
deepens into night. He begs the Company to help save his 
family from an Orc attack. If the companions follow, each 
must make an Intelligence (Investigation) or Wisdom 
(Survival) check to find their way in the dark, those that 
fail spend half the night finding the others and gain a level 
of Exhaustion. When the companions reach the site of the 
attack the man wails “Too late! Too late!” and disappears. 
In the morning, the companions find themselves amidst 
the ancient ruins of a Hillmen village.
Stalking Orcs (Agents of the Enemy or The Enemy 
is Abroad)
If the Company experienced the Unfriendly Eyes Journey 
Event during the previous leg, they are now ambushed 
by the band of Orcs of Mount Gram that smelled them 
before. The Loremaster must set up a combat encounter 
based on the Company’s current circumstances (at least 
three Orcs for each hero, perhaps accompanied by a 
Great Orc, see Rivendell Region Guide, page 51 and 
Loremaster’s Guide, page 97).
8
Shadows Over Tyrn Gorthad

--- PAGE 120 ---
Eriador Adventures
120
- Part Three -
The Valley of the Dead
Mithrandir’s research was accurate; the frozen valley 
that the Company enters upon leaving behind the Grey 
Waste of Angmar is indeed worthy of being called “Nan 
Gorthrim”, for it is here that the Witch-king worked his 
foul sorceries of old. The Morgul-lord studied his dark 
matters behind the stone walls of a tower, and that tower 
miraculously escaped the destruction of Angmar and is 
still standing today. The Hill-men who used to live in the 
valley named the tower the “Icy Flame” for the eldritch 
energies that ignited the sky about the fastness and made 
it appear as if the snow itself was burning with blue-green 
flame.
Nan Gorthrim opens at the southernmost end of the 
Frozen Path, the hidden road that runs across the 
Mountains of Angmar (see Rivendell Region Guide, page 
54). Fortunately, the Company doesn’t have to walk that 
cursed trail: rather, they pass through the foothills and up 
a winding track that eventually leads into the valley itself. 
It is a long and narrow dale, cut by many streams of dirty 
or even poisonous water, flowing down from the sides of 
the dark mountain range. The land is lifeless and empty, 
nothing seems to grow here, and no sound can be heard 
echoing against the sides of the valley as the Company 
makes its progress.
Eventually, the companions arrive in sight of their 
destination: the stonework of the Tower of Icy Flame is 
barely visible through the ice and snow encrusted about 
the side of the mountain that it is carved from. It seems to 
have no discernible “door” or entrance that can be seen 
from a distance. Windows sealed with great iron shutters 
and rimmed with ice open about the very top of the tower. 
Gandalf’s map roughly indicates the location of a tunnel 
entrance at its base that eventually leads to the tower 
itself, but there are no details of the interior.
The Stairway
The companions can make a DC 15 Intelligence 
(Investigation) check to find a way up to the tower: a 
treacherous staircase that winds steadily upwards along 
the mountainside. On a failure, they have taken the wrong 
path… they still reach the staircase but each member of 
the Company gains a level of Exhaustion as they spend 
many hours climbing a frozen rock face.
When they reach the staircase, they find that it is cut from 
a reddish stone, and that it emerges from the surrounding 
snow and ice because a rivulet of water runs along its steps 
like a diminutive waterfall. Wisps of vapour rise from the 
thin film of running water, twisting about the staircase. It 
is a hard climb, made worse by the wet, slippery steps. To 
climb the stairs, the companions need to pass a DC 20 
Strength (Athletics) check.
6

--- PAGE 121 ---
121
If a companion fails the Athletics test, he slips off the 
steps and falls! On a failure with a natural 1, the hero falls 
3d6 x 10 feet. On a failure by 5 or more the fall is 2d6 x 
10 feet, otherwise the companion falls 1d6 x 10 feet. Once 
at least one hero has succeeded on the check, they can 
throw down ropes to give their companions Advantage on 
further checks.
At the top, the stairs reach a stone ledge that seems made 
out of a single, gigantic slab of dark red marble. Here, 
the companions find the source of the water that trickles 
down the stairway: it drops from high above right on the 
stone ledge, probably from the thawing of the ice crowning 
the top of the tower. Before the heroes, a wide entrance 
gapes like an open wound along the western face of the 
mountain, leading into a vast tunnel.
A Patch of Midnight
It is completely lightless inside the Tower of Icy Flame 
and the heroes find themselves in inky darkness. 
Fortunately, Gandalf thought this circumstance likely. 
Every member of the Company carries two torches 
that Gandalf prepared himself. They burn brightly 
and long, but not forever: 
• 
Each of Gandalf’s torches burn for 3 hours and 
cast bright light in a 30-foot radius and dim light 
for an additional 20 feet. A hero can make a melee 
attack with the torch to cause 1d2 fire damage.
Under the Tower
The tunnel leads straight into the mountainside, until it 
reaches a ’T’ junction. The left-hand path leads into a 
maze of rough-hewn stone passages, the other heads up 
towards the upper levels of the Tower of the Icy Flame 
proper (see The Tower, on the following page). 
The maze to the left is empty and dark, and most passages 
lead only to dead-ends; a thorough and wearisome 
search will locate a narrow corridor that gradually slopes 
downward, until it reaches a steep staircase leading to the 
underground dungeons beneath the tower. A draft of cold, 
rank air blows from below. There is nothing for the heroes 
to find here, other than goblins waiting in the dark. 
The Goblins of the Tower of Icy Flame
The tower and the complex of underground passages that 
wind beneath it is the domain of a group of Goblins of Carn 
Dûm. These weak but canny creatures were abandoned by 
their enslaver long ago and have led a quiet life ever since, 
never getting too far away from the protection of their 
underground lair. They fully intend to continue this way, 
and will consider with attention how to proceed against a 
group of well-armed intruders such as the companions. 
The Goblins discover immediately that someone has 
entered their domain, but they know that strength is not on 
their side. They will then try to exploit their advantage of 
knowing the territory. They know every nook and cranny 
of the ancient structure, and will use every secret passage 
and spy hole to observe the companions from a distance, 
being careful not to give away their presence. 
For the length of their stay, the companions will always 
feel like they are being watched, but they will be unable 
to identify the reason why. They might at times spot small 
movements at the corner of their eyes, or hear distant 
scuttling sounds, or the soft thump of furtive steps above 
them, but will unable to actually see the Goblin scouts that 
track their every movement. 
The Goblins will continue to watch the heroes until 
they commit a mistake, like splitting the party or leave 
someone behind. When this finally happens, the Goblins 
will summon the Deadly One and ask him to solve their 
problem. The Deadly One is a very old monster, a Great 
Orc so ancient that he was among those who fought 
alongside the Lord of the Nazgûl himself when he was the 
king of the witch-realm of Angmar. 
There are another 60 Goblins or so deep down in the 
bowels of the mountain. The Company has a fair amount 
of time to finish their business and be gone before the 
Goblins take action, but if the companions linger too much 
the Loremaster will take action and set up a confrontation. 
The Deadly One 
The Deadly One is a Great Orc with only one eye on 
his misshapen face, a baleful red orb that is so eerily 
positioned that it looks like it is set in the middle of his 
forehead. He is a cruel and dangerous creature, and he 
doesn’t like to be awakened from his slumber... 
6
Shadows Over Tyrn Gorthad

--- PAGE 122 ---
Eriador Adventures
122
The Deadly One
Medium humanoid (Orc-kind)
STR 
19 (+4)
DEX 
18 (+4)
CON 
21 (+5)
INT 
10 (+0)
WIS 
13 (+1)
CHA 
10 (+0)
Armour Class 18 (Deadly Elusiveness)
Hit Points 114 (12d8+60)
Speed 30 ft 
Saving Throws Strength +8, Constitution +9, Wisdom +5
Skills Intimidation +4
Senses darkvision 60 ft, passive Perception 11
Languages Orcish
Challenge 9 (5,000 XP)
Cruel Stroke (Recharge 5-6). If The Deadly One’s attack 
has just hit, it may spend its bonus action to activate this 
ability. The attack becomes a critical hit.
Horde of Goblins (Lair Action). The Deadly One can 
summon 1d4+1 Goblins of Carn Dûm, which arrive at the 
end of its next turn.
Legendary. The Deadly One has 1 Legendary action. It 
may spend a Legendary action to attack with its Notched 
Scimitar or use its Commanding Voice without 
consuming its reaction. A spent Legendary action is 
regained at the start of its turn.
Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, The Deadly One 
has Disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks that rely on sight.
Actions
Notched Scimitar. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 
5 ft, one target. Hit: 13 (2d8+4) slashing damage. Miss: 
If the target has a melee weapon, it must make a DC 14 
Strength saving throw or become disarmed.
Reactions
Commanding Voice. The Deadly One can inspire its 
allies with gutterable barks that promise horiffic ends. 
It may use its reaction to utter a command or shout a 
warning when a non-hostile creature, that it can see 
within 30 feet, is about to make an attack roll or a saving 
throw. The target can add a d6 Command Die to that 
roll, provided it can hear and understand the message. 
A creature can benefit from only one Command Die at 
a time, and creatures that possess Commanding Voice 
cannot benefit from this effect.
Fearsome (Recharge 5-6). When the Deadly One is 
struck, it may activate this ability. The attacker must make 
a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw. If it fails the saving throw 
the attack fails and it becomes Frightened of The Deadly 
One until the end of its next turn.
When the Loremaster considers it appropriate, he will 
ambush the companions, and attack with a small horde 
of Goblins to precede him. Considering how well they 
know the tower, the Goblins will always choose the best 
place to set up their surprise attack, and will exploit 
any available advantage. The stats for the Deadly One 
are based on those of a Great Orc, reinforced by special 
abilities taken from the Rivendell Region Guide (see the 
Evils of the North chapter, page 69).
The Tower
If the companions take the right-hand tunnel from the 
entrance, they find that it winds upward, soon turning 
from exceedingly crudely formed to skilled stone work. 
Ground Floor 
1. The Broken Entranceway: Once there was an 
imposing entrance-way carved out of the rock here, 
designed to look like a leering face, with vast doors set 
within its jaws. No more. The doors are long since rotted 
away and the ends of the rock have been broken, as though 
something burst through them long ago. A Dwarven 
Player-hero can immediately tell that the stonework is 
of Dwarven make. Something is slightly wrong with it, 
though. A successful DC 15 Intelligence (Riddle) check 
6

--- PAGE 123 ---
123
suggests the exact flaw: there is no joy in this work, it was 
doubtless carved by Dwarven slaves. 
2. Guardroom: Beyond the entrance there is a room 
that once served as a guard post. Its door is still intact. 
Stone alcoves line the room, evidence of rusted weapons 
remain, but it has long since been picked clean by Goblins. 
3. Main Hall: A huge circular hall, with a once-polished 
marble floor, now cracked and pitted with age. A few 
pieces of broken masonry lie about the room, but it is 
mostly clean. A massive staircase sweeps up along the 
wall disappearing to the upper floors where it touches the 
40-foot high ceiling. A small cupboard of sorts is under 
the staircase, but it holds nothing of value. Three great 
lanterns of wrought black metal hang from the ceiling, 
suspended by heavy chains affixed to the walls at different 
points. A DC 10 Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) check will 
readily figure out how to lower the lanterns, which hold 
candles that will still burn, lighting up the room with a 
sickly yellow light; however, the sounds of a lantern 
being lowered and raised will alert the Deadly One that 
someone is about.
 
First Floor 
4. Landing: At the top of the stairs, there is a wide 
landing on the first floor of the tower. A shuttered and 
barred window is set in the wall. It is inoperable (the 
outside is covered with ice). A massive, broken doorway 
leads into a room beyond and the vast staircase continues 
up in a spiral along the tower wall. 
5. The Lair of the Deadly One: Whatever purpose this 
room once served, it has since been turned into the lair of 
the Deadly One. A huge makeshift bed built using bones, 
pieces of shattered furniture, blocks of marble and a 
hundred different types of cloth, furs and skins occupies 
one corner. Here the Deadly One normally slumbers, but 
the bed is now empty, as the Great Orc has been warned 
of the Company’s arrival. In the centre of the room, set 
within an alcove where he can view it, is the hoard of the 
Deadly One: a wealth of icy gems, ill-gotten silver, and old 
armaments (a 100** Hoard), piled up here by the Goblins 
of the Tower who accumulated it in years of plundering 
and searching ruins. There is a stout door on the far side 
of the room, across from the alcove. Strangely, it is clearly 
untouched. 
6. The Sorcerer’s Study: Characters attempting to 
approach this door find their hearts racing faster and 
faster, with icy tendrils of dread running through them 
as they reach for the handle. Player-heroes must pass a 
DC 20 Wisdom saving throw to open this door. Failure 
means they are Frightened of the room until they take a 
short rest. The room beyond is a high-ceilinged chamber 
with no windows nor tables or chairs. Several hollows 
Shadows Over Tyrn Gorthad

--- PAGE 124 ---
Eriador Adventures
124
dug into the walls were clearly used as a bookshelf, as a 
number of those still have scrolls of parchment sticking 
out of them. An ornate lectern of wrought iron lies toppled 
on the floor. If the companions unroll them, they discover 
that a number of scrolls are written using the same runes 
that Gandalf showed them in Rivendell. A companion that 
carries one or more of the scrolls feels the cold air even 
more bitterly and their hair seems to stand on end but 
there is no other effect.
7. Conjuring Chamber: The top of the tower is a wide 
chamber with a smooth floor and featureless walls of 
dark red marble. Four mullioned glass windows are set 
at each of the four cardinal directions. They are tall and 
narrow, and currently sealed with heavy iron shutters. 
The atmosphere here feels particularly oppressive and 
suffocating, the darkness hard to dispel by torchlight. 
The cold that permeates every other part of the tower is 
replaced here by a sinister warmth that emanates from 
the walls themselves and explains the thawing of the ice 
trapping the top of the structure. 
A character who makes a DC 15 Intelligence 
(Investigation) check discovers that there are four 
levers concealed at the base of each window; operating 
each lever opens the corresponding iron shutter. If the 
companions open one or more windows during the day, 
the light washes over the chamber walls in shades of many 
colours, revealing an intricate web of finely etched runes 
covering every smooth surface in the room. The signs 
correspond to the symbols that Gandalf is searching for. 
Copying the Black Speech
To accomplish what the Grey Wizard asked them to do, 
the companions must bring back documents written using 
the Morgul-runes they have been shown in Rivendell. As 
described above, several scrolls in the Sorcerer’s Study 
display such writing, and these are easily taken and added 
to the Company’s carried gear. The runes etched on the 
walls of the Conjuring Chamber are a different matter: if 
they want to bring proof of this find back to Rivendell, the 
companions must take out their writing implements and 
patiently copy the markings on the parchment provided 
by Gandalf, a pen in one hand and a candle or torch in 
another.
• 
After every two hours of patient copying each 
character is allowed to make a DC 20 Intelligence 
(Lore or Shadow-lore) check. The Loremaster notes 
the number of successes obtained, this will later 
influence the research of Gandalf the Grey (see the 
following page).
But copying sorcerous spells is a dangerous endeavour; 
to their dismay, the heroes discover that the more they 
look at the spiralling script the more they seem to 
comprehend the meaning of the various symbols... for 
every ability check, the copying companiom must make a 
Corruption check. If the DC 15 Wisdom saving throw is 
failed the companion gains 1 point of Shadow and cannot 
continue to copy.
The Witch-king Sees 
The first time that a Player-hero rolls a natural 1 on any 
roll while in the Conjuring Chamber, something uncanny 
happens: the companion is first heard muttering under his 
breath, and before anyone can intervene, he unwittingly 
utters a few words in what sounds like a harsh, menacing 
tongue: the Black Speech of Mordor! When this happens, 
a cold draft of air snuffs out all the candles and torches at 
the same time, and the chamber grows dark. Then, thin 
lines of fire appear on the chamber walls. They soon race 
across the room, symbols and runes appearing as the fire 
traces over the stone. 
The room flares with eldritch light and the companions 
see clearly how the symbols that Gandalf was searching 
for cover every surface of the room: floor, walls and 
ceiling. There must be hundreds, maybe thousands of 
lines of Morgul-runes. With a final blinding flash, the 
darkness returns, weighing upon the heroes with a new 
sense of oppression, as if a malevolent will was bent upon 
them, gazing into their souls. 
• 
All companions gain a level of Exhaustion as they 
feel a terrible malice focus on the tower. Once they 
leave the Tower of Icy Flame, they recover this level 
of Exhaustion (if a companion uses another method 
to recover Exhaustion then leaving the tower does not 
cause them to lower their Exhaustion level).
If that was not enough, the commotion caused by the 
sorcerous conflagration probably offers the best occasion 
for the Goblins of the tower to take their chance and attack 
the Company in the Conjuring Chamber... 
3

--- PAGE 125 ---
125
Getting Out Alive
After they’ve gotten what they came for, the Company still 
has to get out. If they dawdled too long in the Icy Flame 
and they haven’t been attacked yet they run the risk of 
being ambushed by the Deadly One as they are trying to 
leave. 
If this is the case, the Great Orc will ambush the 
companions as they enter the Main Hall. A swift-thinking 
character can try to drop one or more of the hall’s lanterns 
onto the Deadly One. It takes a DC 15 Dexterity (Sleight 
of Hand) to disengage the mechanism at just the right 
moment to hit the Great Orc with the falling lantern. On 
a success, the monster suffers 5d6 bludgeoning damage. 
Once the Great Orc gets hit, he won’t fall for this trick again. 
The stairs leading down the valley of Nan Gorthrim are 
far easier to navigate on the way back down than up and 
the Company can automatically traverse them. 
Return to Rivendell 
Presuming all went relatively smoothly, Gandalf meets 
with the Company as they leave the Grey Waste. The 
night they spend in the refuge of the Rangers is the first 
comfortable rest the heroes have had in weeks. When the 
Player-heroes show Gandalf what they found in the Tower 
of Icy Flame, he studies briefly every sample of writing by 
the firelight, muttering to himself with interest as he skims 
every parchment over. He then quickly lays everything 
aside, saying, “Best if I look at this far from here.” 
In Imladris 
It is late summer in Eriador when the Company sets out 
the following morning and the heroes make excellent 
time, returning to Rivendell nearly three months after they 
set out. Once there, Gandalf confers with Master Elrond 
and Erestor for several days, always in the company of 
one or more of the scholarly companions he prepared for 
the quest. 
One morning, Gandalf, Elrond and Erestor invite the 
Company to meet them in the eastern porch to share their 
early conclusions. 
Master Elrond states: “Alas, it as is we have long suspected: 
the fears of the Dúnedain are not unfounded, the Witch-
king is responsible for the darkness that plagues Tyrn 
Gorthad.” 
When he speaks at first, Gandalf practically spits the 
words in his anger. “Dark and terrible is the will of the 
Lord of the Nazgûl, exceeded in cruelty only by that of 
his Master. The Shadow over the Barrow-downs is not 
the work of a single curse. The Witch-king summoned 
hundreds, perhaps thousands of evil spirits, dark and 
accursed, to haunt the hollow places beneath the green 
hills. It was the work of centuries of malice.” 
The Grey Pilgrim sighs deeply and calms down. “Yet there 
is a glimmer of hope – we do not think all went as he 
intended. From what we could glean from his writings, 
in the barrows the Morgul-lord encountered a power he 
wasn’t expecting to face, a force whose nature and purpose 
he didn’t understand, for it is older than he.” 
Erestor adds: “There is still much to learn yet from the 
scrolls you brought back from the cold and dreary lands of 
Angmar, and much we don’t yet understand. We thank you 
for the service you have done to the House of Elrond, and 
we encourage you to continue. If you will keep searching 
for answers on your own, you might well provide us with 
the key that will unlock the many riddles wrought by the 
evil cunning of the Lord of the Nazgûl.” 
“Erestor is right. There is much yet to unravel here,” 
concludes Gandalf, “but other pressing errands call and I 
must be off. If you were to look for me in these halls at the 
onset of winter, you may very well find me.” With a smile 
and a wink, he departs. 
On the following day, Mithrandir heads out from Rivendell. 
How to Continue 
Depending on how the Loremaster wishes to structure 
Shadows over Tyrn Gorthad another adventure could 
easily be inserted here, as Autumn has not yet begun. The 
Trolls of the Ettenmoors have certainly been acting up of 
late, as have other less-than-savoury sorts and Master 
Elrond may wish the characters to look into various 
troubles that have come to his attention. 
Otherwise, it would be appropriate to conclude the 
Adventuring phase here, and initiate a Fellowship phase 
for the end of the year. Despite the dark times, the winter 
is bright in Rivendell. Characters choosing to spend their 
Fellowship phase in the Last Homely House may select any 
of the options listed on pages 22-23 of the Rivendell Region 
8
Shadows Over Tyrn Gorthad

--- PAGE 126 ---
Eriador Adventures
126
Guide, and have a new option available to them – to confer 
with Gandalf himself! Good as his word, Mithrandir does 
indeed return to Imladris for the winter (see below).
New Fellowship Phase Undertaking: 
Confer with Gandalf
When companions spend a Fellowship phase in a location 
where Gandalf can be met, they may go and swap 
stories with the Wandering Wizard. A companion who 
has spent a Fellowship phase talking with Mithrandir 
may make a DC 10 (History or Lore) check. On a 
success, the hero gains two Counsel dice or three dice if 
they succeed by 5 or more. A Counsel die is a d4, and 
it can be added to any Intelligence check. Once it is 
used, it is expended. Unused Counsel dice are lost at the 
end of an Adventuring phase. Alternatively, they learn 
less, but have more fun and pick up one of Gandalf’s 
bad habits, acquiring the Smoking trait.
Researching the Barrow-downs in Imladris
Heroes spending the Fellowship phase in Rivendell may 
choose the Researching Lore in the House of Elrond 
undertaking to further investigate the mysteries of 
the Barrow-downs (see Rivendell Region Guide, page 
62). Should the undertaking yield one or more ‘useful 
elements of information’, the Loremaster may use The 
History of Tyrn Gorthad on page 112 to fill his players 
in, along with one or more stories from the three tales 
detailed below. 
Secrets in Stone: Records kept in Imladris indicate that 
the Dúnedain of Cardolan buried many of their honoured 
dead in Tyrn Gorthad over the years. Following the 
tradition of that kingdom, the names and heroic deeds of 
those who were interred there were traditionally inscribed 
onto the stones placed atop their barrows. Some stories 
tell of Dúnedain who encountered Wights that emerged 
from barrows of individuals they knew in life – when 
hailed using the names of their departed friends, the 
Barrow-wights would look dismayed, as if struggling with 
themselves and occasionally let people flee, unharmed.
• 
Studying the stones of the Barrow-downs might provide 
some useful answers. (See Part Four – On the Downs).
The Story of Egalmir: Egalmir was a descendant of 
the chroniclers of the royal house of Cardolan. He lived 
in Arthedain at the time of the last war against Angmar. 
During his long life he continued the tradition of his family 
and preserved a wealth of lore, including a great deal of 
information about the evil spirits that came to infest the 
Barrow-downs. When the Witch-king seized Fornost in 
1974 of the Third Age, Egalmir sealed his family’s records 
in a hidden vault.
• 
Egalmir died before he could return to Fornost and his 
notes on where the vault was located, along with hints 
at the means required to open it, found their way to 
Rivendell (see Part Five – The Hidden Vault at Fornost). 
A Númenórean Tale: A tale of the Second Age, 
hearkening back to the time when the House of Elrond 
was founded, tells of a Númenórean captain who passed 
through Tyrn Gorthad returning home from the battle 
fought at Sarn Ford where Sauron himself was routed. 
Traversing the hills the captain stumbled upon a place 
where a fierce battle had recently taken place. The 
bodies of many Orcs and other fell creatures were strewn 
across the hills, amidst the remains of a number of Elven 
warriors. The greatest number of dead enemies were 
arranged in a wide circle about the remains of a single 
Elf-lord, clad in a blood-soaked, once-golden cloak and 
wielding a bright blade (see also Part Six – Mirabella’s 
Song). 
“Mighty he must have been, even among the Eldar, though 
we knew not his name. I have never seen the like of his 
blade, silver run through with a black metal we could not 
identify. It had a curious name, engraved in the script of 
Eregion: ‘Dambeth Medui’ – ‘Last Answer’. We thought 
his people dead, it was long before we learned that 
some had survived, passing north. We buried him with 
honour in one of the eastern hills, his blade with him. A 
curious thing, one of my men told me that mallos flowers 
eventually grew on that hill, though otherwise, they have 
only been seen growing far to the south.” 
The mallos is a small, lovely wildflower, its name means 
“gold-snow” in Sindarin. None of the lore-masters of 
Rivendell can recall any blade named “Dambeth Medui” 
– but the last years of Eregion were dark ones and much 
knowledge was lost. 
8

--- PAGE 127 ---
127
Wherever the Road Leads Us 
The next three parts of Shadows over Tyrn Gorthad (Parts 
Four, Five and Six) are all optional – if the players never 
research the events behind the recent activities of the 
Barrow-wights and ignore rumours that come their way, 
they might never get to play them. Or, they might play 
through only one or two or them, based on what they deem 
to be worthy of their investigations. If the Loremaster is 
using the default pacing for this adventure, it is now the year 
2976. The Company may set off on exploits having little to 
do with Shadows over Tyrn Gorthad. If they do participate 
in a different adventure, one of the following parts could 
still be undertaken in late summer or early autumn. If the 
Player-heroes do concentrate on investigating the Barrow-
downs, they can complete two parts in one year. 
Gandalf encourages the Company to learn whatever 
they can, especially if anything interesting was turned up 
during research over the winter. He has errands “away to 
the East” and will not be back in Eriador till the following 
year. 
- Part Four -
On the Downs
The green hills of the Barrow-downs hold no cheer. Wet and 
dreary, even in summer, they stretch out into the distance 
in a line of monolith-crowned hills and oddly shaped tors. 
Fog fills the reaches between hills in the morning, shifting 
upwards to reform on the hilltops as the sun burns it off in 
the vales, before spilling back below to cover all again at 
twilight. Those who have visited the Barrow-downs before 
find them even more oppressive than they remember, as if 
the world is holding its breath, waiting... 
The Eye of Mordor
If you are using the optional Eye of Mordor rules found 
within the Rivendell Region Guide, rolling a natural 
1 while investigating the Barrow-downs increases the 
Hunt score by 3 points instead of 1. Needless to say, 
all revelation episodes during this part of the adventure 
will result in the Barrow-wights taking action against 
the trespassing adventurers. 
To Find You Must Seek
A Company seeking more information about what is 
going on with Tyrn Gorthad has a difficult task, in the 
main, because they don’t entirely know what they are 
looking for. Finally, the Barrow-downs are a blighted 
place, and their dark atmosphere threatens to mar the 
spirit of the hardiest of adventurers: all companions must 
pass a Corruption check (a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw) 
each day, or gain 1 point of Shadow (this presumes that 
the characters are regularly leaving the Barrow-downs at 
night to avoid camping directly on the Downs, which is 
probably an unattractive idea, to say the least).
Searching companions may choose to roll Investigation 
or Perception; each hero is allowed to make two rolls for 
every day of searching. The checks begin at DC 13 but will 
increase as the companions linger.
• 
For every four successful rolls accumulated by the 
Company, the Loremaster reveals one clue from those 
listed below as the result of their search (the items are 
revealed in the order they are presented). 
• 
Each time the companions learn something, the 
difficulty of any subsequent roll goes up by 2, thus it 
is DC 13 to learn the first useful piece of information, 
DC 15 to learn the second and DC 17 to learn the 
third. The more the Company learns, the more the 
Barrow-downs seem to actively hinder them, fog 
shrouds what they seek in odd ways, and they easily 
lose track of which stones they’ve already inspected if 
they aren’t very careful... 
Secrets Amidst the Barrows
Companions researching Tyrn Gorthad directly among the 
barrows can unearth the following pieces of information:
Shrouded Names: If the companions inspect those 
barrows that were erected at the time of the kingdom of 
Cardolan, they discover that the names of those interred 
beneath them have been deliberately defaced from the 
stones on top of the hills. They frequently look as if they 
were clawed away.
Ancient Truths: The oldest tombs of the Barrow-downs 
are said by the Wise to date all the way back to the First 
Age. The majority of these ancient burial mounds lie 
undisturbed. In fact, it looks like very few of them have 
6
8
Shadows Over Tyrn Gorthad

--- PAGE 128 ---
Eriador Adventures
128
ever been opened. The symbols on their monoliths are 
defaced only by time and weather. However, several of 
the tombs have been ruined; not opened, ruined, as if the 
earth and stones of the barrow had been deliberately dug 
out and scattered.
Lines of Power: Unlike the barrows of later eras, the First 
Age tombs do not lie across the Barrow-downs randomly. 
Their placement seems deliberate, part of a vast symbol 
that stretches for many miles. All of the damaged tombs lie 
along the outer boundaries of this pattern. Whatever the 
massive “rune” might once have been, the ruined tombs 
clearly disrupted the pattern in several points. 
See page 137 for how all this information helps Gandalf 
and the Company. 
Watchful Eyes
After the Company has discovered the first piece of lore, 
they are approached by Mad Ostley, an old treasure-hunter 
whose lust for gold often brings him in the Barrow-downs 
(see also Rivendell Region Guide, page 63). The crazed-
looking wanderer is interested in what the adventurers 
are doing, and if they manage to impress him, he will give 
them advice that gives them each Advantage on their next 
Investigation or Perception check in the Barrow-downs. 
Additionally, it was Mad Ostley who brought the lost 
Mirabella Thorndike home (with the help of the Rangers, 
see page 131) and he knows where the ancient barrow 
covered in small golden flowers is to be found. Mad Ostley 
will study the companions for a while before approaching 
them. Characters who are honest with him about their 
intentions will find him a ready ally, if a little unhinged. 
He says that tombs he knows were sealed in the past have 
now been re-opened; far too many in fact. The fog has also 
been troublesome of late, carrying strange sounds, and 
moving in unnatural ways even more so than it had in 
past years. 
- Part Five -
The Hidden Vault at Fornost
At the southernmost tip of the North Downs, the ancient 
road known as the Greenway ends in the ruins of Fornost 
Erain, Norbury of the Kings. It is now all but lost to nature, 
its fallen stone towers covered in greenery, its former 
grandeur forgotten. Whatever the forces of the Witch-king 
of Angmar did not break in its siege long ago, time has 
since reclaimed. 
The majority of the folk of Eriador think of the ruins 
as a haunted place where no sane man ventures. The 
Bree-landers call it “Deadman’s Dike” and shudder at 
the thought of willingly going to such a place. If the 
companions have studied the story of Egalmir and have 
unearthed his notes, they will certainly travel to Fornost 
Erain to find his vault. Egalmir’s notes are fairly clear, but 
the passage of time has destroyed many landmarks that 
would have helped finding the right place. 
Been There... 
The story of Fornost Erain is detailed in the Rivendell 
Region Guide. If the companions played through 
the events of Concerning Archers (see page 61) they 
have visited its ruins already. This time they will 
find fewer Orcs, but the presences of evil spirits has 
increased and the Ghostly Voices of Fornost will trouble 
them every night (see Rivendell Region Guide, page 
61). They might also have encountered Talandil, the 
Ranger of the North Downs. If the Loremaster wants 
to involve the old Dúnadan with the Company, follow 
the suggestions given at page 68 (see Talandil, the 
Ranger of the North Downs). 
Searching For The Vault
Companions looking for the vault using the notes left by 
Egalmir must make a DC 15 Intelligence (Investigation 
or Lore); each hero is allowed to make two rolls for every 
day of searching in Fornost (all searching companions 
must also pass a Corruption check each day, or gain 1 
point of Shadow). It takes a total of four successful rolls for 
the companions to pick their way through the greenery to 
find the right location. 
6
6

--- PAGE 129 ---
129
When they finally succeed, the companions navigate their 
way down to a plant-filled cellar. Its ceiling collapsed a 
long time ago, but the entrance to the vault of Egalmir 
seems undisturbed. It takes a DC 13 Dexterity (Sleight of 
Hand) or Intelligence (Riddle) check to discern how to 
undo the latch that allows it to open. Once triggered, the 
door of the vault slowly swings open to reveal... nothing! 
Sort of. 
In fact, the empty chamber is filled with rubble, as a 
roughly dug tunnel opens on its floor. Someone has 
clearly tunnelled into the vault from below and removed 
any content it might have still been there. A character with 
the Tunnelling trait automatically notes that the passage 
can’t be more than a few months old; any other character 
will need to make a DC 10 Intelligence (Investigation 
or Riddle) check to recognise this. 
Rogues Beneath the Ruins
The majority of Dwarves are hard-working sorts, gruff, 
but honest. There are some Dwarves though, that never 
quite fit in... and then there are Dwarves like Lófar. Lófar 
Light-finger is considered to be disreputable scum by 
the Dwarves of the Blue Mountains. He was banished 
many years ago for his larcenous tendencies. When his 
sobriquet was laid on him it was meant to be an insult, 
but he embraced it with pride. In Lófar’s mind, a life spent 
digging deep into the earth for uncertain profit was a 
total waste of his days; but digging with a real chance of 
treasure though, now that is a worthwhile endeavour. 
Lófar turned his skills as a miner to tomb-robbing, 
though he’s clever enough not to have plied his trade on 
the Barrow-downs. The ruins of Fornost Erain seemed a 
perfect location... 
Gathering a small band of like-minded Dwarves, Lófar 
slipped into the ruins of Fornost and went to work. Swiftly 
discovering that if they tried to excavate from above the 
Rangers would surely catch them, Lófar and his thieving 
band moved their operations underground. They have 
been tunnelling for two years now and business has been 
terrific! Or so Lófar would claim if asked. In truth, while 
they have recovered many treasures, Lófar and all of his 
Dwarves are slowly becoming more than a little unhinged, 
due to the creeping Dragon-sickness that their ill-gotten 
gold has awakened in them... 
In Deep Places
It takes a DC 10 Wisdom (Survival) check to follow the 
trail left by Lófar and his Dwarves. They weren’t bothering 
to conceal their trail, thinking no one would ever come 
looking. The tunnel is cramped and it’s pitch black, 
meaning the characters will have to figure out some sort 
of illumination or suffer the penalties of darkness. 
It only takes fifteen minutes or so to get to the centre of 
Lófar’s operations. The Dwarves found a submerged 
chamber that was once likely a meeting hall of some kind 
and dug outwards from there in multiple directions. All 
characters should make a DC 20 Wisdom (Perception) 
check to identify the sounds of mining in the distance. It’s 
so difficult because the Dwarves work carefully to avoid 
detection from above. 
Lófar has half a dozen Dwarves working for him. At any 
given time, three are sitting about drinking while the 
others are working. The Company can attempt to ambush 
the Dwarves if they wish, or negotiate. 
8
6
Shadows Over Tyrn Gorthad

--- PAGE 130 ---
Eriador Adventures
130
Lófar’s reaction to the arrival of the companions depends 
on how they approach him. If they just attack, he fights 
for long enough to take their measure and if it looks like 
the battle is turning against him, flees, abandoning his 
fellows without compunction. If the Company’s approach 
is to talk, Lófar first studies, then goes one of two ways: he 
either tries to persuade them to take a share and move on, 
or he claims to have the permission of the Rangers to be 
working here. He lies very well. A companion can make an 
opposed Insight check against his Deception roll.
Whatever the Company says, it doesn’t matter truly – 
Lófar is so gone into Shadow that he assumes everyone 
lies just as much as he does. The second the characters 
let their guard down, he and his Dwarves attack without 
warning. A Company that claims they’ve come for book 
records and nothing else will give him pause though. 
Thieving Dwarf
Medium Dwarf
STR 
14 (+2)
DEX 
13 (+1)
CON 
16 (+3)
INT 
11 (+0)
WIS 
12 (+1)
CHA 
8 (-1)
Armour Class 14 (Corslet of Mail)
Hit Points 45(6d8+18)
Speed 25ft
Skills Sleight of Hand +3, Stealth +3
Senses passive Perception 11
Languages Westron
Challenge 1 (200 XP)
No Quarter. When the Dwarf reduces an enemy to 0 hit 
points that enemy is considered to already have failed one 
death save. 
Sneak Attack. Once per turn, the Thieving Dwarf deals 
an extra 3 (1d6) damage when it hits a target with a 
weapon attack and has Advantage on the attack roll, or 
when the target is within 5 feet of an ally of the Dwarf 
that isn’t Incapacitated and the Dwarf doesn’t have 
Disadvantage on the attack roll.
Actions
Short Bow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, range 
80/320 ft, one target. Hit: 4 (1d6+1) piercing damage.
Great Axe. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 8(1d12+2) slashing damage.
A DC 20 Charisma (Persuasion) check will convince 
Lófar that maybe the Company does consist of weird 
scholars, in which case he’ll admit that he does have some 
interesting books (including Egalmir’s records) stored 
nearby... so what are they worth to the heroes? 
Lófar and his Dwarves have amassed enough assorted 
grave-goods to have a hoard equal to 50*. Egalmir’s records 
contain much of value, including diagrams of the layout of 
the tombs of the Barrow-downs and even sketches of the 
interiors of several barrows along with notes on who was 
buried where. See page 137 for how this helps Gandalf and 
the Company. However the companions end up handling 
the situation, the Dúnedain will also be very interested to 
hear about Lófar and his operation. 
Lófar Light-finger
Medium Dwarf
STR 
14 (+2)
DEX 
15 (+2)
CON 
16 (+3)
INT 
11 (+0)
WIS 
12 (+1)
CHA 
18 (+4)
Armour Class 15 (Corslet of Mail)
Hit Points 60 (8d8+24)
Speed 25 ft 
Skills Deception +6, Sleight of Hand +4, Stealth +4
Senses passive Perception 11
Languages Westron
Challenge 3 (700 XP)
Sneak Attack. Once per turn, Lófar deals an extra 
3 (1d6) damage when he hits a target with a weapon 
attack and has Advantage on the attack roll, or when 
the target is within 5 feet of an ally of Lófar that isn’t 
Incapacitated and Lófar doesn’t have Disadvantage on 
the attack roll.
Terrorise. Lófar targets up to three intelligent creatures 
they can see within 30 feet. If there are more Dwarves 
present than targets of this ability, then those targets 
must succeed on a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw or 
become Frightened until the end of Lófar’s next turn.
Actions
Mattock. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 9 (2d6+2) piercing damage.
Reaction
Commanding Voice. Lófar can inspire his allies with 
whispered promises of retribution. He may use his reaction 
to utter a command or shout a warning when a non-
hostile creature, that it can see within 30 feet, is about to 
make an attack roll or a saving throw. The target can add 
a d6 Command Die to that roll, provided it can hear and 
understand the message. A creature can benefit from only 
one Command Die at a time, and creatures that possess 
Commanding Voice cannot benefit from this effect.

--- PAGE 131 ---
131
- Part Six -
Mirabella’s Song
Rumours have spread through Eriador that in autumn 
of the previous year (2975 by default) a Hobbit girl from 
Bree was caught on the Barrow-downs after her uncle’s 
caravan had some sort of terrible mishap. Lost in the 
heavy fog, she ended up deep in the Barrow-downs where 
she eventually took refuge on a hillock to sleep for the 
night. A Barrow-wight came for her, but apparently never 
approached her closely, calling her from a distance, and 
so she lived to see the morning. The story was the talk of 
the town in the village of Bree for a time. 
The Company will have heard this rumor in the spring 
(possibly earlier, if they visited or stayed in Bree last year) 
and may wish to follow up by heading to Bree to talk to 
the Hobbit girl, to hear what actually happened without all 
the inevitable embellishments that such stories acquire. 
How About Bree? 
Every player of Adventures in Middle-earth can easily 
picture the village of Bree... but no information has 
been provided so far for the game. In the meantime, 
the information found in The Lord of the Rings and the 
summary below will suffice... 
Bree is a big village that sits on the west side of Bree Hill in 
central Eriador, part of a group of settlements with three 
other communities, Staddle, Combe and Archet. Bree is 
the home of an old famous inn, the Prancing Pony, and 
rests at the crossroads of two ancient roads, the Greenway 
and the great East Road. As used as they are to foreigners, 
Bree-landers tolerate outsiders so long as they don’t make 
any trouble, but they aren’t passing fond of them: “Asking 
after things what aren’t none of their business, as is.” 
Bree and the other three villages are unique in that they 
are communities of both Hobbits and Men living together. 
While outsiders might say “Bree-hobbit” or “Bree-man” 
to differentiate them from a Shire Hobbit or a Man from 
elsewhere, they refer to themselves as the “Big Folk” and 
the “Little Folk”. 
The Spies of Saruman
If the Company has not dealt with Uathach and her 
Company of the Wain, then the spies of the White 
Wizard will be interested in the Company’s mission, 
especially if they know Gandalf is involved. The 
companions might be plagued by bad weather, flocks 
of Crebain or outright attack. See page 76 for more 
details on Uathach and her methods.
Looking For Mirabella
The Hobbit girl in question is one Mirabella Thorndike, 
a brave lass who got very lucky indeed for she took 
refuge on the Hill of the Elf Prince which still has great 
power to hold evil at bay (see page 133). To find her, 
the companions will have to ask about for where her 
family might be. A DC 10 Charisma (Persuasion) or 
Intelligence (Traditions) check will do, though using 
Charisma (Performance) in the inn may prove fruitful 
too. 
The Thorndikes are pedlars who sell some Shire goods 
to Breelanders along with simple crafts made in the four 
villages. Presuming the Company finds them, it isn’t just 
Mirabella they have to win over, it’s her uncle, Moro too. 
While they have both had quite enough of adventures, 
Mirabella and Moro both found they’re kind of fun to 
recount after the fact. 
6
Shadows Over Tyrn Gorthad

--- PAGE 132 ---
Eriador Adventures
132
Moro is a stout Hobbit of late middling age. He hooks his 
thumbs behind his braces when he talks, occasionally 
rocking back and forth on his big feet. Getting to hear 
Mirabella’s story means persuading her uncle. This takes 
a DC 20 Charisma (Persuasion) check but if a Hobbit 
or Dúnadan is asking they have Advantage on the roll. 
While Breelanders normally look down upon the Rangers, 
Mirabella was ultimately rescued and brought home by 
Mad Ostley and a group of Rangers so her family now 
looks on them with more favour. 
When Moro asks why the companions want to hear the 
tale as plenty already know it, honestly answering that the 
heroes want to stop the Barrow-wights will automatically 
convince both him and Mirabella that the characters are, 
“Heroes, like from the old tales.” 
Mirabella is just 10, a slender young Hobbit girl with 
bright, inquisitive hazel eyes and dark hair. 
Mirabella’s Story
“We were coming back from getting supplies in Buckland, 
on the border of the Shire. We were trying to hurry along 
the East Road, and we hadn’t cleared the Downs proper. It 
was getting dark, and no one likes to be on that part of the 
road after sundown. 
“At some point, the fog starts spilling over that wall that 
runs alongside the road to the south... it’s an old wall, 
but it’s tall. Uncle Moro said it was nothing, but he looked 
very upset. Thistle, that’s our pony, Thistle was awful 
upset, whinnying and carrying on so.
“The later it was, the thicker the fog got. We heard sounds 
in the distance, like someone crying, and then metal 
clanging. Thistle took such a fright he bolted and we hit 
a runnel. Off came a wheel. Uncle could barely calm 
poor Thistle, we thought he’d hurt himself straining so. 
Uncle tried to calm him, took off his bridle and someone 
came out of the fog. I saw burning eyes, like fires, but so 
cold. I saw a pale sword, heard Uncle yell ‘Run, girl!’ and 
Thistle screaming.
“I ran, fast as I could. I kept hearing sounds and I was 
so frightened. So worried about Uncle and Thistle. The 
fog was thick, so thick I could barely see. I hit a stone 
while running and I couldn’t figure out which way the 
road was. I looked up and saw the sky and stars. The 
fog cleared a little and I saw the hill, it didn’t look like 
the others. I made my way there, quick as I could. It 
was covered with little golden flowers, they smelled real 
sweet. I climbed up the hill, leaned against one of the 
stones and I think I fell asleep. 
“A while later, I heard a voice and saw one of the Big 
Folk, down in the fog. He called me, said he’d take me 
someplace safe, but when I asked him to come up, he 
wouldn’t. He kept looking at the hill and then me, 
insisting that I come down to him. When I asked him 
why, he snarled at me and his eyes burned right through 
the fog. I knew he was a Barrow-wight, then. I closed my 
eyes and sang an old song, so I couldn’t hear him any 
more. Eventually, he went away. 
“In the morning, the sun came. A man with white, wild 
hair found me. He was a little scary, too, but not at all 
like that Barrow-wight. He asked who I was, and he said 
he had some friends who could get me back to Uncle. 
We walked for a while among the hills until he found his 
friends. Uncle said they were Rangers.” 
Mirabella can recall little else of her ordeal; she cannot 
remember exactly what song she sang, but she is 
absolutely certain that the stars were burning brightly 
above her, comforting her as she kept her eyes upon them 
while the Barrow-wight roamed about the base of the hill 
without touching it.

--- PAGE 133 ---
133
The Hill of the Elf Prince
The barrow that Mirabella took shelter on is a tall hill 
covered with small golden flowers called mallos, which 
typically grow far to the south. In all the Barrow-downs, 
they only grow on this singular hill. Companions that read 
the Númenórean Tale of the Elf Prince from page 126 will 
instantly recognise this as the same hill from that story. 
Any character who searched the Barrow-downs (On the 
Downs, on page 127) may very well have seen the hill 
already. A DC 15 Intelligence (Lore) check will recall 
its exact location, not far from the East Road along the 
north-eastern side of the Barrow-downs. Mad Ostley also 
knows where it lies. 
For millennia a blade and a suit of armour were buried 
beneath the ground here that had great power against the 
Shadow. The blade was removed many centuries ago, the 
armour long since eroded, but its enchantment has slowly 
passed into the very earth itself. The hill now acts as a 
ward against Barrow-wights and other unclean spirits. 
Unless forced on by a greater will, they will not approach 
it and to stand upon it causes them great anguish. 
- Part Seven -
Oldest and Fatherless
In late spring or early summer of the year 2977, Gandalf 
the Grey seeks out the Company in Rivendell, as he has 
returned to Eriador with grave news for the great task that 
lies ahead. But before Mithrandir meets them, word may 
already reach the Company that some Barrow-wights 
have been spotted in daylight away from the Downs. This 
is completely unprecedented and Master Elrond is openly 
troubled by the implications. Alternatively, depending 
on what the Company has been up to, the Loremaster 
may wish to inform them that Barrow-wights have been 
seen during the day by setting up a combat encounter 
featuring one, just after lunch, as part of a Journey Event 
or Revelation Episode. 
The Counsel of the Grey Pilgrim
Mithrandir greets the Company cheer fully, though his 
face looks grim. “Well met, indeed!” He inquires after all 
they’ve learned, asking sharp questions about everything. 
He will be especially pleased to receive Egalmir’s records 
noting that he’ll have to study them at length. Eventually, he 
will tell the companions (or they will perhaps tell him) that 
Barrow-wights have been seen in the daylight. He nods.
“Truly, it is as I feared. We must act soon. I’ve had many 
concerns that have kept me occupied, but this matter 
has never gone far from my mind. While I was east of 
the mountains, I spoke with a very old friend about this 
problem and she gave me much to think on. I had to return 
to Rivendell, there are some ancient texts here I must read 
again to refresh my memory, which is not what it once 
was, and some materials I must gather for our task, if you 
will help me once more.” 
The Company are free folk and can answer as they will – 
though they’ll likely want to know what he wants them to 
do.
“For centuries, a powerful and ancient magic has 
prevented the Barrow-wights from straying far from their 
hollows under the earth. But what force once restrained 
them is failing, its efficacy disrupted. Whether this is 
happening by design or due to the wear of time I could 
not say. But what I do know is that the wards of Tyrn 
Gorthad must be reinforced, and that to do this I will 
need your help. It will be very dangerous. We must reset 
the boundaries...” 
Gandalf falls silent, as if stunned, allowing the Company 
to think a new thought has crossed his mind. “Of course. 
Boundaries. Of course! There is someone else I would have 
you seek out, if you will. His house lies on the western edge 
of the Barrow-downs, on the edge of the Old Forest.” 
Gandalf tells the Company that they should seek the 
house of Tom Bombadil, which lies near the headwaters of 
the Withywindle, a stream that flows from the Downs and 
almost neatly splits the Old Forest in twain. Characters 
that succeed at a DC 20 Intelligence (Lore) check have 
heard the name “Bombadil” before. He is thought of by the 
Dúnedain as a guardian of the Old Forest, bigger than a 
Hobbit, smaller than a Man. Gandalf declares that after 
they’ve talked to Tom Bombadil, he’ll meet them at the 
Prancing Pony, in the village of Bree, and they’ll discuss 
exactly what must be done next. 
Finding Bombadil
It’s over 400 miles from Rivendell to the House of 
Bombadil; depending on where the characters start out 
8
6
6
Shadows Over Tyrn Gorthad

--- PAGE 134 ---
Eriador Adventures
134
from, the journey could take a while. Hazard episodes 
don’t necessarily have to involve Barrow-wights, but 
the characters should soon realise it’s a near cheerless 
summer this year. The weather is frequently overcast 
throughout Eriador, summer storms continually lash 
the road, making it less safe than usual and gloom is 
omnipresent. 
The weather about Tyrn Gorthad is, if possible, worse than 
the rest of Eriador. The clouds are near black with rain and 
ominous to behold. The Company may well decide that, 
while it will take longer, going around the Barrow-downs 
and then heading south along the border of the Old Forest 
is the safest way to find the House of Tom Bombadil. 
The Old Forest is widely famed as a strange land, the final 
remains of a wood that once stretched from the sea all the 
way to the Gap of Rohan in the distant south and beyond. 
Queer creatures are said to roam inside and rumour has it 
that the trees within it frequently move of their own accord. 
Fortunately, the Company doesn’t have to enter the 
woods; however, they should all make Awareness tests. 
On a success, they realise that all of the animals they 
see along the edge of the woods, whether birds or beasts, 
watch them as they pass in eerie silence. 
As they are wandering, the Player-heroes see several 
bright rays of sunshine slip through the clouds to touch 
down in the distance and a clear voice comes to them, 
ringing along the trees: 
“Ho Tom! Swift Tom! Tom Bombadilo!
Dances over glen, singing to the hills. O!
Bright blue his jacket is, and his boots are yellow. 
Tom saw you coming from afar, no need to bellow!“
An Audience With Tom 
The companions don’t know quite what to expect as 
Gandalf didn’t give them a lot of details, mainly because no 
amount of warnings could quite prepare anybody for Tom 
Bombadil. As the companions approach where they heard 
the voice from, a short man with a bushy brown beard and 
happy blue eyes bounds out of the woods before them. He 
does indeed, have a bright blue jacket and yellow boots, 
along with a rumpled hat, crowned by a long feather. 
Motivation 
While Tom is full of childlike enthusiasm, his eye does not 
miss much. He will want to assess the heroes’ character: 
do they seek to protect the weak and honour the dead? 
Or did tales of pale gold and gleaming jewels draw them 
here?
Expectations
• 
+2 if there are any Dúnedain among the Company. 
The matter of the Barrow-downs is tied to the history 
of the Rangers.
8

--- PAGE 135 ---
135
• 
-1 if the Company expects Tom to fix this for them. He 
may be the Master, but he is no lord of the Barrow-
wights.
Introduction
The companions can introduce themselves to Tom by 
making either a DC 15 Charisma (Performance) or 
Intelligence (Traditions) check. They quickly find, no 
doubt to their surprise, that he already knows something 
about each of them. He knows all about any Hobbit from 
the Shire, including details about their families. He also 
knows a fair amount about the Company’s larger exploits 
throughout Eriador. 
If they try to explain themselves, or why they’ve come, 
Tom stops them, waggling a finger while casting his eyes 
eastward. He’ll smoothly take the arm of any Ranger, 
especially those who typically hang back because they are 
used to disturbing “civilised” folk and says with a grin, as 
he drags them along:
“Wandering fast, far, and free, 
between the mountains and the sea. 
Bright sword in shadows swinging! 
Ancient oaths in heart still ringing! 
Lay down your burdens for one night. 
Sing with us in the candles’ light!”
Interaction 
Tom swiftly brings the Company to his home nearby, 
which rests at the top of a grassy knoll overlooking the 
Barrow-downs from the edge of the Old Forest. His home 
is solid, built of stone and the inside is filled with brightly 
shining lamps along with a wide variety of merrily burning 
candles. Tom sings out as they approach: 
“Hail lady of cheerful rains! 
Star of my days who never wanes! 
Fairer than the sun on water! 
Queen of my heart, the River-daughter!”
A beautiful maid, more like to an Elven lady than a mortal 
woman, welcomes the characters into their home. Her long 
bright gold hair is loose about her shoulders and she wears 
a silvery-green dress that almost looks like brightly coloured 
fish scales, twinkling in the many lights of the house. Water 
lilies float in earthen jars filled with water and set about the 
room. Tom introduces her as “My pretty lady, Goldberry”. 
Tom and Goldberry rush about in a merry, coordinated 
dance seeing to their guests’ needs (putting horses in a 
small stable Tom keeps if the Company has them), putting 
drinks into their hands, removing their cloaks and so 
on. Goldberry speaks in a melodious voice and seems 
gracious and kind. 
At some point, someone will ask the obvious — “Do you 
know why we’ve come?” or something along those lines. 
Bombadil turns very solemn for a moment and responds: 
“Aye, Tom knows why you’ve come — 
Bold wights, mouldy wights, slipping out their hills. 
Running here, striking there, travelling where they will. 
Malice that will not rest, nor depart into ever after. 
Cursed souls walking in the night, cold fingers choking 
laughter.” 
He shakes his head sadly, but his mirth swiftly returns. 
“Time enough for such things. Eat! Drink!” Tom excuses 
himself to return with a crown of leaves in place of his hat. 
“Hey dol! Merry dol! Caper or be you stillo! 
Sheath your swords! Choose your chords! Now it’s time 
to trillo! 
Sing along, ring along, with old Tom Bombadillo! 
Tom laughs. “You want my help, noble heroes? First you 
sing with us!” Tom expects all companions to join in with 
him and Goldberry in a DC 10 Charisma (Performance) 
check. If someone tries to beg off due to lack of skill at 
singing, Tom laughs and says: 
“Come Orcs, come Trolls, never a quaver! 
But ask for a jolly tune and your friend needs a saviour!”
All characters find they enjoy Advantage to their 
Performance checks — even the most tone-deaf find that 
they can sing merrily in the House of Tom Bombadil. If at 
least half of the Company succeeds, add a +1 Expectation 
modifier to the Final Audience Check. 
After many hours of singing, drinking and good cheer, 
Tom and Goldberry insist that their guests spend the night. 
The Company finds that beds have already been laid for 
them, ones appropriate to their sizes. In the morning, 
after serving the companions a big breakfast, Goldberry 
disappears and Tom sits with the characters to talk. 
Shadows Over Tyrn Gorthad

--- PAGE 136 ---
Eriador Adventures
136
Tom speaks of the Barrow-downs as they are, Tyrn 
Gorthad as it was, and the hills as they were before the 
first of the Edain chose to bury their dead within them. His 
voice murmurs on, telling them great truths of the earth 
and old secrets that the characters can never after directly 
recall, but something of the wonder and the majesty of 
Bombadil’s words remains with them after. Bombadil 
speaks of the Barrow-wights, their epic greed, and terrible 
loneliness. 
Finally, Tom tells the Company that what they are to 
attempt is a noble endeavour, for many have been hurt 
and many more will be if the Wights are not confined 
to the Downs once more. He gives direct answer to few 
questions. He laughs if asked who he is. “Why, I’m Tom 
Bombadil of course! All that you see of me, I am! Eldest, 
that’s what.” 
He concludes: “Tell Gandalf that he has tarried long 
enough. Mid-summer is when he must act, farthest from 
the winter in which they were bound. Tell him the Wight-
king will come before the end.” Characters that make a 
DC 20 Intelligence (Lore) check know the Wight-king as 
a terrible legendary figure, the greatest among the Wights 
of the Barrow-downs. 
Parting Blessings 
When it is time for the Company to depart, make a Final 
Audience Check. 
Failure: Tom regrets that such grim souls had to be called 
in to handle such a sad task, but some things cannot be 
helped. All companions gain Inspiration on the morning 
of Midsummer’s Day. 
Success by 0-3: Tom’s words and songs linger deeply 
within the Company, comforting them against darkness. 
All companions gain Inspiration as above, and on the 
night of the renewal of the wards the companions have 
Advantage on saving throws against their Wight Song 
ability, as the merry tunes of Bombadil echo in their mind 
and drive away the weariness. 
Success by 4+: Not only do Tom’s songs linger, but so does 
the outrage at what the Barrow-wights have done and may 
yet do. As above, but the companions have Advantage 
on saving throws regarding the wights’ Chilling Touch 
special ability. 
Tom walks the characters to the edge of the Barrow-downs 
and waves them goodbye with a final song: 
“Heed no shadows, my hearties. 
Be bold, but be wary! 
Old Tom’s songs are about you now, 
But no more time to tarry!”
- Part Eight -
Casting Out The Shadow
Gandalf the Grey meets the Company at Bree as promised 
so they can discuss what must be done and exactly what 
he thinks will happen. To renew the wards of Tyrn Gorthad 
the Wizard will have to concentrate over the ancient magic 
for many, many hours. In fact, Gandalf isn’t entirely 
certain how long it will take him to succeed — there is too 
much he does not know about the old spells he is about 
to cast. 
Gandalf will start at noon on Midsummer’s Day, following 
Tom Bombadil’s advice. He is certain that it will take to 
midnight at least to finish, if not far later into the night. 
He is equally certain that the Barrow-wights will attack in 
earnest when they realise what he is up to.
Gandalf declares that there will be little he can do to help 
the Company once he starts. On the contrary, he will rely 
on the companions for his own safety: they will need to 
protect him as best they can, and they will be on their own 
until he finishes.
 
A Brief Stay at The Prancing Pony
If the Loremaster is keeping a strict accounting of 
Experience Points, the Company might wish to take a 
short Fellowship phase in order to level up. Since they 
might spend a couple of weeks waiting for the high 
days of summer, this can be accomodated.
Finding the Right Spot
Gandalf isn’t entirely certain where he should begin. 
Clearly atop a tall hill, perhaps in the middle of the 
Downs? The characters can say as they will, but if they’ve 
4

--- PAGE 137 ---
137
discovered it, the absolute best answer is the Hill of the 
Elf Prince. The effects of the hill are listed throughout the 
section detailing the hours of the fateful day and night 
that the magic is being performed.
If the Company doesn’t know about the golden-flower 
covered hill, they’ll likely want a high topped hill that is 
easily defended. A successful DC 15 Wisdom (Survival) 
check will show several likely candidates for this and allow 
the characters the advantage of being atop a shallow 
slope (see page 92 of the Loremaster’s Guide). The check 
is automatically successful if they know about the Hill of 
the Elf Prince. 
Many Preparations 
To help the companions in their difficult task, Gandalf has 
procured a cart-load of gear. For the occasion, the Grey 
Wizard has spent several sleepless nights applying his 
skills in the creation of fireworks and assorted explosives 
to ignite some blazing fires to chase away the darkness 
(perhaps with the aid of Larry Appledore, if no ill befell 
him in The Company of the Wain — see page 81) 
“To ward off the night and to help you against Wights as 
well!” 
Using Gandalf’s preparations, the companions may be 
able to set up multiple bright bonfires, fuelled by special 
powders that will have them blazing all through the day 
and night. The bonfires might be placed about whatever 
hill the magic is to be performed on, and atop the 
surrounding ones too.
• 
If the Loremaster deems that the companions exploited 
the ruse efficiently, the Wights won’t be able to profit 
from their Denizen of the Dark special ability. 
Gandalf also gives each member of the Company a 
gleaming glass vial, closed by a cork stopper. Inside is a 
yellowish waxen liquid. “When things look darkest for you, 
hurl these against the ground, but mind you don’t look!”
A hero can spend her action to shatter a vial (a ranged 
weapon attack, 10/20 feet) which burns with a bright 
incandescent light (60 ft radius) for 1d4+2 rounds. A target 
of the vial takes 2d6 fire damage each round, unless it 
uses an action snuffing the blaze. Multiple vials do not 
stack effects, other than the longest time rolled prevailing.
A Ranger’s Legacy
If the companions were able to save Edrahil in What 
Lies Beneath and the Loremaster judges that enough 
time has passed for the young Dúnadan to complete 
his training then he might join them in protecting 
Gandalf. Note that he should count as a full member 
of the Company when determining the number of 
Barrow-wights. Use the statistics on page 76 of the 
Loremaster’s Guide for a full-grown Edrahil.
Mithrandir’s Magic
Gandalf the Grey knows many spells, but this time he will 
be tackling a power he does not know fully. The Company’s 
help over the last two years proves itself now. To reseal 
the mystic boundaries that prevent the Barrow-wights to 
leave Tyrn Gorthad, Gandalf will start weaving his magic 
on Midsummer’s Day.
• 
In game terms, the Loremaster will make a number of 
rolls against a certain DC with a +12 modifier. 
The first roll is made at four o’clock, followed by three more 
rolls, one every four hours (at eight o’clock, midnight, and 
at four in the morning). Gandalf must last out the night, or 
accumulate 7 successes, whichever comes first, to succeed 
and send the Barrow-wights back to their hollows. 
• 
If Gandalf succeeds by 5 or more, the check counts 
as 2 successful rolls. If he gets a natural 20, the check 
counts as 3 successful rolls. On a natural 1 result, the 
DC of all subsequent rolls is increased by 2. 
The base difficulty for the rolls depends on the previous 
deeds of the companions. If the Company didn’t journey 
to Angmar at all and left Gandalf to his own devices, it 
begins at DC 30.
• 
If the Company brought back the scrolls found in the 
Sorcerer’s Study, the difficulty is reduced by 2 to DC 
28.
• 
If the Company copied the Morgul-runes in the 
Conjuring Chamber of the Tower of Icy Flame the 
difficulty is reduced by the number of successes rolled 
by the copying companions (up to a maximum of -6).
6
10
Shadows Over Tyrn Gorthad

--- PAGE 138 ---
Eriador Adventures
138
• 
Reduce the DC by 1 if the Company told Gandalf 
about the Shrouded Names they found.
• 
Reduce the DC by 1 if the Company told Gandalf 
about the Ancient Truths they learned.
• 
Reduce the DC by 1 if the Company told Gandalf 
about the Lines of Power they discovered.
• 
Reduce the DC by 2 If the Company recovered 
Egalmir’s Records and gave them to Gandalf. 
Protecting Gandalf
Gandalf needs to concentrate on his magic, and for the 
purposes of combat counts as if he has AC 12. If Gandalf 
suffers a loss of more than 20 hit points during any four-
hour block, he doesn’t get to make his magic check at the 
end of it. The following paragraphs detail the various 
events occurring on Midsummer’s Day. The Loremaster 
will have to adjust the various descriptions to the current 
circumstances of his own playing group. 
Noon till Four 
Gandalf and the Company are assembled, all is in 
readiness. The sky is overcast, with patches of blue 
glimpsing through occasionally, but it grows progressively 
worse as the day wears on. As it gets later in the day, 
the fog begins to swirl about the base of the Company’s 
chosen hill in odd patterns. Gandalf stands at the top of 
the hill, in the middle and begins to speak a chant of words 
that roll out of him in a measured tone, occasionally 
waving his staff toward the various cardinal directions 
as a punctuation. The characters can understand little of 
what he does, though they may occasionally recognise 
words of Sindarin or Quenya, the language of the Noldor 
Elves. Gandalf accomplishes the first part of his magic 
undertaking, and makes his first magic check.
Four till Eight 
As the sun begins to set but it is still light out, the swirling 
fog comes to a sudden halt and voices start whispering out 
of the growing darkness. The first probing wave of Barrow-
wights emerges from the fog to assault the Company. 
There are a number of Barrow-wights equal to the number 
of companions. Based on the companions’ preparations, 
the Barrow-wights might or might not benefit from their 
Denizen of the Dark ability. 
The Barrow-wights will try to use their Wight Song ability 
before they attack with their cold blades. If the Company 
stand on the Hill of the Elf Prince, the Wights stop at the 
base of the hill and will come no closer. They do try to use 
their Wight Song on each one of the characters from a 
distance. Even if it is successful, they will not approach, 
but they’ll note which companions seem more susceptible 
to their voices. At no point do any of the Barrow-wights 
attempt to interfere with Gandalf at this time, though 
some time during the fight one of them will look as though 
it is going to approach the Grey Pilgrim, but then it clearly 
10

--- PAGE 139 ---
139
thinks better of it and turns elsewhere. Gandalf makes his 
second magic check.
Eight till Midnight 
One of the most terrible powers behind the Barrow-
downs has become aware of what the companions are 
doing and moves directly to stop Gandalf. The fog returns 
with a vengeance, racing over the Downs, and making 
what’s coming difficult to see. Sounds echo strangely off 
the stones of the hills, further distorting movement. The 
Company’s bonfires roar to life about their chosen hill. 
A wave of Wights equal to the number in the Company 
(including Gandalf) stalk out of the fog. If Gandalf has 
already accumulated 5 or more successes, they are 
accompanied by the dread Wight-king (see Rivendell 
Region Guide, page 86 for more about the Wight-king). The 
terrible undead king will move directly to try to cut down 
the Grey Wizard. If the Wight-king sustains 40 points or 
more of damage, he withdraws, for the moment. 
Wights forced to move onto the Hill of the Elf Prince by 
the fierce will of the Wight-king automatically have 
Disadvantage on their attack rolls (that includes the 
Wight-king himself). If Gandalf is not too badly injured, he 
makes his third magic check.
Midnight till Dawn
The fog partially rolls away and the Company can see 
Barrow-wights coming from every direction, their eyes like 
dull stars approaching over the Downs. The light from the 
bonfires seems pale and barely stretches beyond the hill. 
The Wight-king returns, or if he has not yet attacked, he 
does so for the first time now. He leads a seemingly endless 
spectral horde of Wights. They have come to kill. Two come 
for every Player-hero and the Wight-king himself comes for 
Gandalf. The first time a Barrow-wight is struck down, the 
Wight-king uses his lair action to summon another.
Gandalf’s voice raises to a thunderous roar. As his left 
hand holds his staff high, light blazing from it, his right 
hand waves and all the bonfires burst into brilliant life. All 
characters gain Inspiration as they feel their hearts surge 
within them. Amidst his singing Gandalf gestures at the 
Wight-king. 
To end the onslaught, the Company must either destroy 
the Wight-king or collectively slay a number of Barrow-
wights equal to three times the size of the Company, less 
one for each success Gandalf has accrued so far. 
For example, in Gandalf’s first three tests, he has 
accumulated 5 successes. There are 4 companions. 3 x 4 
= 12 and 12 - 5 = 7. Seven Barrow-wights must die in this 
assault before the Wight-king retreats.
If the Wight-king falls and there are Wights standing on 
the Hill of the Elf Prince, they explode in blazing balls of 
greenish light. Everywhere else, the Barrow-wights swiftly 
retreat into the fog. 
If the Company manages to kill enough Barrow-wights to 
rout them without destroying the Wight-king, he retreats 
with measured steps, his terrible eyes never leaving 
those of the Company. His voice hisses through the early 
morning air: “We will meet again.” 
The companions know they’ve made a deathless enemy, 
who will not forget his defeat at their hands. Either way, 
dawn comes as the Barrow -wights slip away into the fog. 
Gandalf makes his final check.
 
Victory!
If Gandalf accrued 7 or more successes, he has 
reinstated the magical wards! It seems like a pale blue-
white luminescence ripples through the fog, far into 
the distance along the edge of the Barrow-downs. Any 
Wights immediately flee — if the Wight-king is present, he 
snarls and curses, before swiftly retreating. The weather 
improves tremendously over the space of an hour. In the 
morning, the sun shines through the breaking clouds and 
rainbows dance about the hills.
The Barrow-wights can no longer pass beyond the 
boundaries of Tyrn Gorthad, though alas, they do remain 
dangerous throughout the Barrow-downs. The Witch-
king’s army, lying in wait in the North, is trapped.
Renewed but Flawed
Dawn comes and Gandalf finishes his magic, but he 
knows that the boundaries are unsound. If Gandalf 
doesn’t achieve 7 successes by his fourth and final roll, 
the Barrow-downs are contained, but there are ‘cracks’ in 
the mystic wall. The Loremaster should take note that the 
Wight-king can leave the Barrow-downs when he chooses 
and may be able to occasionally force a breach, allowing 
10
6
Shadows Over Tyrn Gorthad

--- PAGE 140 ---
Eriador Adventures
140
a small group of Barrow-wights to pass beyond the Downs 
to work his will... 
The Witch-king will bide his time, but soon the North will 
know foes to freeze the heart.
Failure & Death
The Company is struck down to the last and Gandalf 
cannot complete his magic before he is assailed and forced 
to retreat from the Barrow-downs. A Loremaster willing 
to abandon Tolkien canon should plan for an assault on 
Bree and, not long after that, the Shire…
Otherwise, Gandalf retreats to Rivendell and calls a 
council of the Dúnedain to explain what happened. The 
Company are mourned and remembered in song. Their 
deaths certainly count as heroic and Gandalf makes a 
point of looking into the doings of their chosen heirs.
The Rangers spend much of the rest of 2977 fending off 
attacks by Barrow-wights. In summer of 2978, Gandalf 
returns with a small troop of Dúnedain volunteers to 
Tyrn Gorthad to finish what he started. He succeeds, but 
the ranks of the Rangers are diminished by that many 
more brave souls... unless the Player-heroes’ heirs help 
out, that is. 
- Epilogue -
If any of the characters fell during the night, Gandalf 
mourns their passing with the rest of the Company, but 
otherwise he is pleased with how things went. 
“They did not die in vain.” 
The weather throughout Eriador improves tremendously 
and the year 2977 ends up being remembered as a fair 
one, all things considered. The threat of the Barrow-
wights has finally been contained and while it may not be 
entirely resolved, they are no longer a large-scale problem 
for Eriador. 
Gandalf gives each surviving member of the Company a 
pouch. The pouches contain small, but exceedingly well-
wrought gemstones from Erebor of old. The contents of 
each pouch are worth 30g, but they also have Sentimental 
Value for any Dwarves. Mithrandir is returning to Rivendell 
to rest for a time before moving on to other concerns, and 
the companions are most welcome to accompany him if 
they wish. Over the following year, the Company’s renown 
is widespread among the Rangers and the Wise.

--- PAGE 141 ---
141
Index
- index -
(The) Company of the Wain	
75
Adventuring Phase	
75
(The) Adventure Begins	
82
Áinfean, the Apothecary	
78
At Road’s End	
85
(The) Bound Man	
83
Brigands!	
86
(The) Captive is Handed Over	
84
Caradog, Dunlending Hunter	
78
Caradog, the Bear-baiter	
77
(Attacking the) Caravan	
84
(Following the) Caravan	
83
(Sneaking into the) Caravan	
83
(The) Companions Confer with Gandalf	
91
(The) Companions Confer with Saruman	
91
(Joining the) Company of the Wain	
77
(The) Company of the Wain	
77
(The) Company of the Wain Caravan Map	
79
(A) Dark Dawn	
88
Deal directly with Uathach	
91
Dealing with the Spies	
90
Del’s Dwarven Spirits	
79
Dunlending Warriors	
85
(The) Dunlendings	
85
Epilogue - Fellowship Phase	
91
Evaluating the Final Audience Check	
87
(The) Eye of Mordor	
75
(Using) Fireworks in Battle	
82
(The) Folk-moot	
87
Following Covertly	
83
Following Openly	
83
Forced March	
84
Foreshadowing	
90
Freeing the Captives	
84
(Questioning) Idderig	
88
Interaction	
87
Introduction	
87
Investigating Further	
91
Larry’s Fireworks	
81
Let the Company Be	
91
Lodin the Toymaker	
82
(A) Lone Rider	
88
Osbert the Woodturner	
81
Part Five - When Dark Things…	
90
Part Four - She Sees, She Knows	
88
Part One - A Travelling Fair	
76
Part Three - False Accusations	
85
Part Two - Investigating the Caravan	
83
Prisoners	
86
(A) Regiment of Crows	
89
Shell Game	
80
Terry’s Menagerie	
81
Thelred	
89
Theldred the Rider	
80
Traps	
78
Uathach the Seer	
79
Uathach, Treacherous Fortune-teller	
80
Uathach’s Secret	
76
(The) Wain Ring	
82
(A) Weariness of the Heart	
89
Who is the Bound Man?	
85
Wilma’s Furs	
82
(The) Wose	
81, 83
Concerning Archers	
61
Adventuring Phase	
61
Ambush in the Deep	
71
Archers in the Night	
67
Archer of the Green Company	
68
(About the) Archers of the Green Company	
67
Bilbo and The Ring	
64
(The) Bow of Rufus Took	
73
Clues from the Past	
66
Confustication and Admiration	
63
(A) Conversation Among Friends	
62
Dangers of the Present	
66
Defeat	
74
Epilogue - Bringers of Tidings	
74
(The) Eye of Mordor	
61
Fellowship Phase	
74
(Exploring) Fornost	
65
(Getting to) Fornost	
65
(The) Ghostly Voices of Fornost	
65
(The Coming of) Gishnak	
72
(Who is) Gishak Gashnaga?	
71
Gishak’s Charge	
73
(The) Hall of Eärendur	
68
Harrowing Memories	
67
(The) Hobbit’s Bow	
74
Interaction	
63
Introduction	
63
(A) Little Footpad	
69
(The) Marching Song of the Green Company	 74
(A) Matter of Pride	
63
(The) Northern Valley	
71
Part Four - The Last Battle of the
Green Company	
70
Part One - Riddles of Rivendell	
61
Part Three - Into Darkness	
68
Part Two - The Dead and The Fallen	
65
(A) Secret Hoard	
69
Talandil, Ranger of the North Downs	
66
(The) Throne Room of Arvedui	
69
Unexpected Guests	
70
Victory	
73
Wise Counsel	
64
Wraith of Carn Dûm	
70
Harder than Stone	
36
Adventuring Phase	
36
Aftermath	
60
Amos, Lesser Stone-Troll	
41
Attacking the Guards	
51
Audience with the Hunter	
52
(The) Bandit Camp	
39
Bound by Honour	
60
(To the) Broadcleave	
56
(The) Broken Keep	
47
(The) Broken Keep Map	
49
By Daylight	
57
By Moonlight	
57
Captain Mormog	
59
Captain Mormog’s Speech	
58
Choices and Challenges	
40
(Into the) Coldfells	
46
Concerning Trolls	
55
Dealmaking	
54
Dealing with Amos	
40
Dealing with the Trolls	
51
Down from the Mountains	
56
Elrond’s Task	
44
Entering the Ruins	
50
Epilogue - The Black Voice	
60
Ettin Guardian	
58
(The) Eye of Mordor	
36
(New) Fellowship Phase Undertaking: 
Troll Hunt	
60
(The) Fort	
48
Gondril	
37
Gorzim’s Suspicions	
51
Hailstorm	
46
Hunting the Captain	
46
(The) Hunter of the East	
53
(The) Hunter Returns	
57
Interaction	
43, 54
Introduction	
43, 53
Journey Event Suggestions	
46, 56
Many Questions	
54
Meeting Elrond	
42
Muddy Bones	
56
Olog-hai Captain	
59
Our Hope is in Secrecy	
57
Part Five - Bargains in the Night	
52
Part Four - Deep Plans	
47
Part One - Road Maintenance	
37

--- PAGE 142 ---
Eriador Adventures
142
Part Six - Into the Ettendales	
55
Part Three - Picking up the Trail	
45
Part Two - At the House of Elrond	
42
Ruthless Bandit	
40
(The) Search	
59
(The) Shadow Is Not Lightly Denied	
60
(The) Shattered Caravan	
37
Slipping Away	
59
Sneaking Around	
51
(The) Surface	
48
(The) Survivors	
41
(Back into the) Trollshaws	
45
(Into the) Trollshaws	
38
Troll Trap	
46
Underground	
48
(An) Unhappy Hour	
56
(The) Vault	
47
We Can Take ‘im!	
58
“We’re the New Guys”	
50
What Feredrûn Knows	
55
What Really Happened Here?	
38
Which Way to Rivendell?	
42
I
Introduction	
4
Experience Awards	
6
How to Use This Guide	
5
Journey Events	
6
(The) Passing of Years	
6
(The) Return of the Witch-king	
5
Themes	
5
Nightmares of Angmar	
7
1. Battle of the Crow’s Den	
32
2. The Goblin Pit	
32
Adventuring Phase	
7
After the Fight	
16
Aftermath	
35
Among the Hill -men	
10
Bedwyr	
10
Before Departure	
21
(The) Black Helms	
13
But We Do Not Know The Way	
20
(Ruins of) Carn Dûm	
28	
(A) Celebration Ruined	
14
Combat Scenery	
15
Companies from Eriador	
7
Company Interjections	
18
Continued Nightmares	
27
Cowardly Retreat	
16
(Speaking With) Cynbal	
12
Cynbal the Chief	
10
Cynbal’s Farewell	
19
Discovered in the Hills	
9
Durthacht and Madacht	
10
(The) Enemy	
15
Epilogue - To Rivendell	
34
Essylt	
11
Essylt the Fair	
18
Essylt’s Reply	
32
Essylt’s Resolve	
19
(The) Eye of Mordor	
8
(The) Eye is Watching	
24
(A) Fateful Meeting	
34
Fight Events	
15
Final Audience Check	
21
Finding a Way In	
27
Finding the Secret Tunnel	
30
Fire and Anguish	
14
Forgall	
11
(Killing) Forgall	
15
Forgall’s Hatred	
15
Fráech	
10
Freezing Fog	
16
(Crossing the) Great Bridge	
31
Goblin Frenzy!	
31
Gwal	
10
(Fighting) Heddwyn	
33
Heddwyn as a Spirit-Warg	
34
Heddwyn, the Witch-servant of Angmar	
33
Heilyn, Sul and Uthecar	
10
(Meeting) Hwalda	
20
Interaction	
12, 20
Introduction	
12, 20
(The) Journey	
22
Journey to the Last Homely House	
35
Key Moment: Test of Courage	
19
Key Moment: Test of Sacrifice	
14
Key Moment: Test of Sympathy	
13
Key Moment: Test of Will	
32
Key Moment: Test of Zeal	
21
Key Moments	
12
Loremaster Characters in the Company	
21
(The) Lurker in the Long Valley	
24-25
March	
11
Memorial Circles	
8
(Crossing the) Misty Mountains	
23
(Into the) Mountains of Angmar	
26
Navigating the Ruins	
30
(The) Nightmares Begin	
16
Part Five - Carn Dûm	
27
Part Four - Mountains & Monsters	
22
Part One - Black Helms	
8
Part Six - An Unexpected Foe	
32
Part Three - Concerning Hill -women	
18
Part Two - Orc-work	
14	
Running the Fight	
13
Savage Wolfdogs	
9
(A) Second Nightmare	
21
Secrets of a Resurrecting Kingdom	
17
Setting Out	
23
Starting Attitude	
12
(The) Steward of Carn Dûm	
27
Taredd	
11
Tribal Council	
18
Wait! It can’t be Hwalda!	
20
Warg Attack	
15
(The) Witch-servant of Angmar as a Man	
33
Wrestling with Hill -men	
13
Shadows over Tyrn Gorthad	
110
Adventuring Phase	
111
(An) Audience With Tom	
134
Been There...	
128
Blinding Glare	
119
(Finding) Bombadil	
133
(A) Brief Stay at The Prancing Pony	
136
(The) Camp of the Dúnedain	
118
(From the) Camp of the Dúnedain to
Nan Gorthrim	
119
Copying the Black Speech	
124
(The) Counsel of the Grey Pilgrim	
133
(The) Dark Heart of the Matter	
116
(The) Deadly One	
121-122
Eight till Midnight	
139
Elvish Singing & Dark Tidings	
113
Epilogue	
140
Expectations	
113, 134
(The) Eye of Mordor	
117, 127
Failure & Death	
140
(New) Fellowship Phase Undertaking:Confer 
with Gandalf	
126
Final Audience Check	
115
Finding the Right Spot	
136
Foreword	
110
Four till Eight	
138
(Protecting) Gandalf	
138
(Playing) Gandalf the Grey	
114
Getting Out Alive	
125
(The) Goblins of the Tower of Icy Flame	
121
(The) Hill of the Elf Prince	
133
(The) History of Tyrn Gorthad	
112
How About Bree?	
131
How to Continue	
125
(In) Imladris	
125
In Deep Places	
129
Interaction	
114, 135
Introduction	
114, 135
(The) Journey	
117

--- PAGE 143 ---
143
Index
(Suggested) Journey Events	
118, 119
(From The) Last Bridge to the Hidden
Camp of the Dúnedain	
118
Lófar Light-finger	
130
Many Preparations	
137
Master Elrond’s Summons	
113
Midnight till Dawn	
139
(Looking For) Mirabella	
131
Mirabella’s Story	
132
Mithrandir’s Magic	
137
Motivation	
113, 134
Mourning Shade	
119
Noon till Four	
138
Part Eight - Casting Out The Shadow	
136
Part Five - The Hidden Vault at Fornost	
128
Part Four - On the Downs	
127
Part One - The Vigil ance of Mithrandir	
112
Part Seven - Oldest and Fatherless	
133
Part Six - Mirabella’s Song	
131
Part Three - The Valley of the Dead	
120
Part Two - Return to Angmar	
117
Parting Blessings	
136
(A) Patch of Midnight	
121
(A) Ranger’s Legacy	
137
Renewed but Flawed	
139
Researching the Barrow-downs in Imladris	 126
(From) Rivendell to The Last Bridge	
117
(Return to) Rivendell	
125
Rogues Beneath the Ruins	
129
Searching For The Vault	
128
Secrets Amidst the Barrows	
127
(The) Spies of Saruman	
131
(The) Stairway	
120
Stalking Orcs	
119
Stout Hearts	
110
(The) Tale of Years	
110
Thieving Dwarf	
130
To Find You Must Seek	
127
(The) Tower	
122
	
First Floor	
123
	
Ground Floor	
122
Trouble at the Gate	
118
Under the Tower	
121
Unfriendly Eyes	
118
Victory!	
139
Watchful Eyes	
128
Wherever the Road Leads Us	
127
(The) Witch-king Sees	
124
Year 2973	
110
Year 2974	
111
Year 2975	
111
Year 2976	
111
Year 2977	
111
What Lies Beneath	
92
Adventuring Phase	
92
(The) “Brigands”	
98
(A) Confrontation	
105
(Into the) Crypt	
107
(A) Dark Night	
106
Dark Portents	
106
Developing the Relationship wi th Hiraval	
95
(A) Direct Assault	
102
Disarming Grapple	
108
(The) Doom of Hiraval	
107
Edrahil	
95
(Playing) Edrahil	
96
Edrahil’s Fate as a Revelation Episode	
107
Elwin	
99
(Meeting) Elwin	
103
Epilogue - Húldrahir Defeated	
109
Expectations	
93, 103
(The) Eye of Mordor	
92
Fay	
99
Final Audience Check	
94, 104
Folulf and Arnulf	
100
Helping a Ranger	
93
Herbert	
99
(Breaking) Herbert	
105
Hiraval	
95
(Breaking) Hiraval	
106
Húldrahir	
108
Húldrahir, Dúnadan Spectre	
109
Inner Darkness	
107
Interaction	
93, 104
Introduction	
93, 104
(Entering the) Manor	
102
Motivation	
93, 103
Part Four - A Night of Treachery 
and Madness	
104
Part One - In Rivendell Where Elves Yet Dwell	93
Part Three - The Secret Manor	
98
Part Two - The Journey West	
95
Playing Hiraval	
93
Rangers on the Road	
97
(From) Rivendell to Weathertop	
96
Searching the Ruins	
102
(The) Secret Manor	
100
	
1. Watchtower	
101
	
2. Manor House	
101
	
3. Stables	
101
	
4. Cellars	
101
	
5. Family Crypt	
101
(The) Spectre of the Manor	
98
(A) Stealthy Approach	
102
Travellers in Need	
96
Weathertop in Sight	
97

--- PAGE 144 ---
OPEN GAME LICENSE Version 1.0a 
The following text is the property of Wizards of the Coast, Inc. and is 
Copyright 2000 Wizards of the Coast, Inc ("Wizards"). All Rights Reserved. 
1. Definitions: (a)"Contributors" means the copyright and/or trademark 
owners who have contributed Open Game Content; (b)"Derivative 
Material" means copyrighted material including derivative works 
and translations (including into other computer languages), potation, 
modification, correction, addition, extension, upgrade, improvement, 
compilation, abridgment or other form in which an existing work may 
be recast, transformed or adapted; (c) "Distribute" means to reproduce, 
license, rent, lease, sell, broadcast, publicly display, transmit or otherwise 
distribute; (d)"Open Game Content" means the game mechanic and 
includes the methods, procedures, processes and routines to the extent 
such content does not embody the Product Identity and is an enhancement 
over the prior art and any additional content clearly identified as Open 
Game Content by the Contributor, and means any work covered by this 
License, including translations and derivative works under copyright law, 
but specifically excludes Product Identity. (e) "Product Identity" means 
product and product line names, logos and identifying marks including 
trade dress; artifacts; creatures characters; stories, storylines, plots, 
thematic elements, dialogue, incidents, language, artwork, symbols, 
designs, depictions, likenesses, formats, poses, concepts, themes and 
graphic, photographic and other visual or audio representations; names 
and descriptions of characters, spells, enchantments, personalities, 
teams, personas, likenesses and special abilities; places, locations, 
environments, creatures, equipment, magical or supernatural abilities or 
effects, logos, symbols, or graphic designs; and any other trademark or 
registered trademark clearly identified as Product identity by the owner 
of the Product Identity, and which specifically excludes the Open Game 
Content; (f) "Trademark" means the logos, names, mark, sign, motto, 
designs that are  used by a Contributor to identify itself or its products 
or the associated products contributed to the Open Game License by the 
Contributor (g) "Use", "Used" or "Using" means to use, Distribute, copy, 
edit, format, modify, translate and otherwise create Derivative Material 
of Open Game Content. (h) "You" or "Your" means the licensee in terms of 
this agreement. 
2. The License: This License applies to any Open Game Content that 
contains a notice indicating that the Open Game Content may only be 
Used under and in terms of this License. You must affix such a notice 
to any Open Game Content that you Use. No terms may be added to or 
subtracted from this License except as described by the License itself. No 
other terms or conditions may be applied to any Open Game Content 
distributed using this License. 
3.Offer and Acceptance: By Using the Open Game Content You indicate 
Your acceptance of the terms of this License. 
4. Grant and Consideration: In consideration for agreeing to use this 
License, the Contributors grant You a perpetual, worldwide, royalty free, 
non exclusive license with the exact terms of this License to Use, the Open 
Game Content. 
5.Representation of Authority to Contribute: If You are contributing 
original material as Open Game Content, You represent that Your 
Contributions are Your original creation and/or You have sufficient rights 
to grant the rights conveyed by this License. 
6.Notice of License Copyright: You must update the COPYRIGHT NOTICE 
portion of this License to include the exact text of the COPYRIGHT NOTICE 
of any Open Game Content You are copying, modifying or distributing, 
and You must add the title, the copyright date, and the copyright holder's 
name to the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any original Open Game Content you 
Distribute. 
7. Use of Product Identity: You agree not to Use any Product Identity, 
including as an indication as to compatibility, except as expressly licensed 
in another, independent Agreement with the owner of each element of that 
Product Identity. You agree not to indicate compatibility or co adaptability 
with any Trademark or Registered Trademark in conjunction with a work 
containing Open Game Content except as expressly licensed in another, 
independent Agreement with the owner of such Trademark or Registered 
Trademark. The use of any Product Identity in Open Game Content does 
not constitute a challenge to the ownership of that Product Identity. The 
owner of any Product Identity used in Open Game Content shall retain all 
rights, title and interest in and to that Product Identity. 
8. Identification: If you distribute Open Game Content You must clearly 
indicate which portions of the work that you are distributing are Open 
Game Content. 
9. Updating the License: Wizards or its designated Agents may publish 
updated versions of this License. You may use any authorized version 
of this License to copy, modify and distribute any Open Game Content 
originally distributed under any version of this License. 
10. Copy of this License: You MUST include a copy of this License with 
every copy of the Open Game Content You Distribute. 
11. Use of Contributor Credits: You may not market or advertise the Open 
Game Content using the name of any Contributor unless You have written 
permission from the Contributor to do so. 
12. Inability to Comply: If it is impossible for You to comply with any of the 
terms of this License with respect to some or all of the Open Game Content 
due to statute, judicial order, or governmental regulation then You may 
not Use any Open Game Material so affected. 
13. Termination: This License will terminate automatically if You fail 
to comply with all terms herein and fail to cure such breach within 30 
days of becoming aware of the breach. All sublicenses shall survive the 
termination of this License. 
14. Reformation: If any provision of this License is held to be 
unenforceable, such provision shall be reformed only to the extent 
necessary to make it enforceable. 
15. COPYRIGHT NOTICE 
Open Game License v 1.0a Copyright 2000, Wizards of the Coast, LLC. 
System Reference Document 5.1 Copyright 2016, Wizards of the Coast, 
Inc.; Authors Mike Mearls, Jeremy Crawford, Chris Perkins, Rodney 
Thompson, Peter Lee, James Wyatt, Robert J. Schwalb, Bruce R. Cordell, 
Chris Sims, and Steve Townshend, based on original material by E. Gary 
Gygax and Dave Arneson. 
Adventures in Middle-earth Player’s Guide Copyright 2016 Cubicle 7 
Entertainment Ltd/Sophisticated Games Ltd; Authors: James Brown, Paul 
Butler, Walt Ciechanowksi, Steve Emmott, Gareth Ryder-Hanrahan, Jon 
Hodgson, Shane Ivey, Andrew Kenrick, TS Luikart, Dominic McDowall, 
Francesco Nepitello, James Spahn, Ken Spencer.
Adventures in Middle-earth Loremaster’s Guide Copyright 2017 
Cubicle 7 Entertainment Ltd/Sophisticated Games Ltd; Authors: Walt 
Ciechanowski, Steve Emmott, Jon Hodgson, TS Luikart, Dominic 
McDowall, Francesco Nepitello, David Rea, Jacob Rodgers, Gareth 
Ryder-Hanrahan and Ken Spencer.
Adventures in Middle-earth Wilderland Adventures Copyright 2017 
Cubicle 7 Entertainment Ltd/Sophisticated Games Ltd; Authors: Gareth 
Ryder-Hanrahan, Francesco Nepitello, Jon Hodgson, and Steve Emmott.
Adventures in Middle-earth Rivendell Region Guide Copyright 2018 
Cubicle 7 Entertainment Ltd/Sophisticated Games Ltd; Authors: Francesco 
Nepitello, Shane Ivey, Andrew Kenrick, Thomas Morwinsky, Jacob 
Rodgers, James M. Spahn, Amado Angulo and Marco Maggi.
Adventures in Middle-earth Eriador Adventures Copyright 2018 
Cubicle 7 Entertainment Ltd/Sophisticated Games Ltd; Authors: Adam 
Dials, James R. Brown, Richard Harrison, T.S. Luikart, Marco Rafalá, 
James M. Spahn, Andrew Kenrick and Francesco Nepitello.
END OF LICENSE