--- PAGE 1 ---
Greg Marks
EXPANDING THE  RANGER

--- PAGE 2 ---
2
Credits
Designer: Greg Marks
Editor: Jeff Quick
Cover Artist: Marcel Mercado
Interior Artists: Gabriel Cassata, Marcel Mercado, 
David Auden Nash, Bryan Syme
Graphic Designers: Marc Radle and Amber Seger
Kobold Warrens
Publisher: Wolfgang Baur
Chief Operations Officer: T. Alexander Stangroom
Director Of Digital Growth: Blaine McNutt
Art Director: Marc Radle
Art Department: Marc Radle, Amber Seger
Editorial Director: Thomas M. Reid
Editorial Department: Scott Gable, Meagan 
Maricle, Jeff Quick, Thomas M. Reid
Senior Game Designer: Celeste Conowitch
Marketing Director: Chelsea “Dot” Steverson
Social Media & Community Manager: Zachery 
Newbill
Sales Manager: Kym Weiler
Product Identity: The following items are hereby identified as Product Identity, as defined in the Open Game License version 
1.0a, Section 1(e), and are not Open Content: All trademarks, registered trademarks, proper names (characters, place names, 
new deities, etc.), dialogue, plots, story elements, locations, characters, artwork, sidebars, and trade dress. (Elements that have 
previously been designated as Open Game Content are not included in this declaration.)
Midgard and Kobold Press are trademarks of Open Design. All rights reserved.
©2023 Open Design LLC. All rights reserved.
www.koboldpress.com 
PO Box 2811 | Kirkland, WA 98083
Open Game Content: The Open Content includes the weapons, subclasses, and their abilities, and the optional rules 
of tracking in combat and booby traps. All other material is Product Identity, especially place names, character names, 
locations, story elements, background, sidebars, and fiction.
No other portion of this work may be reproduced in any form without permission.
EXPANDING THE RANGER

--- PAGE 3 ---
3
Many traditional ranger class features are found 
in Tolkien’s text. Aragorn, a grim, stealthy man, was 
known as a strong fighter, talented archer, and skilled 
with healing herbs in a way that might have been 
magical. He was an expert guide who could track 
and escort others through the wilderness. While 
Aragorn was probably the basis for the ranger, he 
wasn’t the only one. The AD&D 2e Player’s Handbook 
also lists Robin Hood, Orion the Hunter, Jack the 
Giant Killer, and the huntress Diana, as inspirations 
for the ranger class. 
The image of the ranger as a fast-moving warrior 
wielding a blade in each hand came with the 
popularity of R.A. Salvatore’s Drizzt Do'Urden 
character, who also had a magical panther 
companion named Guenhwyvar. This also cemented 
the idea that rangers had animal companions; a class 
feature Aragorn did not possess. In the AD&D 1e 
Player’s Handbook, rangers gained followers upon 
reaching 9th level, some which might be might have 
been animals. It wasn’t until 2e’s Player's Option: Skills 
and Powers and the Animal Master kit when rangers 
could reliably get an animal companion. After that, 
it was common for rangers to acquire an animal 
companion as a class feature or gain access to the 
animal friendship spell and find a furry friend.
INTRODUCTION
The word ranger conjures many different images: the 
hunter on the edge of society, the guide who knows 
hidden paths, the primal warrior who defends nature, 
the deadly marksman splitting her first arrow with 
her second, whirling steel and tumbling evasion while 
fighting against overwhelming odds; all of these call 
to mind a ranger. The ranger we know today has been 
evolution of a few key tropes.
RANGERS IN GAMING HISTORY 
AND MEDIA
The ranger first appeared in the Summer 1975 issue 
of Strategic Review as part of an article by Joe Fischer. 
The creation of this subclass of the Fighting Man, 
rangers have been a popular part of fantasy role-
playing games ever since. 
The fantasy role-playing game ranger is almost 
certainly based on the character Aragorn from J. R. R. 
Tolkien’s Lord of the Rings. The Rangers of the North 
in Middle-Earth were skilled woodsmen and hunters, 
wandering the wastes of Eriador hunting orcs.

--- PAGE 4 ---
4
The idea of the favored enemy developed from a 
bonus against giants in the original Fischer article. It 
has since morphed into bonus damage against a type 
of creature of the ranger’s choice, and in the most 
recent edition, into knowledge of a language and 
advantage on skill checks. There has always been a 
benefit of some kind against some foe, and this likely 
also goes back to once again Aragorn and the hated 
orcs.
What Makes a Ranger?
Several tropes come to mind when one thinks of a 
ranger. Consider the type of ranger you want to play, 
and which class abilities you want to highlight. In 
particular, you can customize your ranger by choosing 
a focused subclass at 3rd level and picking specific 
feats or spells to hone your concept.
Animals. Rangers are often considered good with 
animals. This might just manifest in your character 
choosing proficiency with the Animal Handling skill 
so you know how to coax an animal into doing what 
you want or taking proficiency with land vehicles so 
you can drive a wagon. For a stronger connection, 
you might choose a subclass with access to an animal 
companion. This is a commitment to add a second 
personality and requires you to keep track of a second 
character. While an animal companion isn’t a full 
second character, it requires a little more effort to 
track and care for.
Archery. The classic ranger is an expert marksman, 
quick to draw their bow and quicker to release. The 
Hunter subclass embodies this classic trope, but 
even without specializing, owning a bow can let you 
dish out some ranged damage. Add a feat or two 
specializing in archery and the archery fighting style, 
and you can be very effective at range. 
Favored Enemy. While the favored enemy class 
feature has changed from edition to edition, it has 
been a staple since Aragon hunted his first orc. Work 
this feature into your backstory. What enemy troubles 
your homeland most? They are likely your favored 
enemy. Even better is to ask your GM what creatures 
will feature in their campaign so you can work 
yourself into the story through your favored enemy.
Magic. Most rangers have limited spellcasting 
ability, but those spells augment their other abilities, 
increasing damage or allowing additional versatility 
in the wild. Some of these spells overlap with the 
druid, but the ranger never achieves the raw power of 
devoted spellcaster. However, they more than make 
up for it with martial prowess. Think of spells a little 
something extra for when you get into a tight spot.
Two-Weapon Fighting. This trope was not originally 
part of the ranger but became a standard of the class 
later. Today’s ranger is a spinning top of flashing 
blades moving in and out of cover, attacking several 
times before an enemy can respond. Taking the two-
weapon fighting style helps you mimic this flavor of 
ranger, but you might also add feats that help you 
move and do more damage.
Rangers are guerrilla fighters that don’t have the 
armor class of a fighter or paladin in full plate, so they 
take advantage of mobility and ambushes in combat. 
You want to be careful about standing next to your 
foe without at least attacking from surprise. Rangers 
have the hit points of a fighter, so you can do that and 
live. But they shine as a skirmisher with spells like 
jump or longstrider to move out of enemy reach before 
they can hit back too many times. This is especially 
effective when combined with the mobile feat to avoid 
opportunity attacks.
Wilderness Expert. Rangers thrive in the wilds. 
Natural Explorer, Primeval Awareness, and Land’s 
Stride class features help them move through the 
wilderness and spot trouble. Mix this with proficiency 
in Perception, Stealth, and Survival skills, and the 
ranger is a ghost in the wild, seeing trouble before it 
sees them and guiding allies around difficulties. They 
also gain bonuses to tracking in their favored terrain 
or against their favored enemy.
Playing a Ranger Well
Perhaps more than any other trope, what makes a 
ranger is independence. They are a strong combatant 
in melee with two-weapon fighting that, when 
augmented with the hunter’s mark spell, keeps up 
with a fighter. When specialized with a bow, a ranger 
does single target ranged damage like a sorcerer or 
warlock. In a pinch, the ranger has spells that can heal 
like a cleric or druid. Like the rogue, a ranger can be 
stealthy, often with a better passive Perception due to 
their higher Wisdom. The ranger is the ultimate solo 
operative.
However, the roleplaying game the ranger is a part 
of relies on teamwork. A ranger’s player must keep in 
mind their utility role. They can fill in gaps and work 
for a party’s benefit, especially in the wilderness. They 
can get in and out without being detected. They have 
high hit points, moderate armor class, and the ability 
to dish out continuous damage. They can even cast 
a few spells when an arrow won’t solve the problem. 
Rangers are well positioned to help keep everyone in 
good shape.

--- PAGE 5 ---
5
Bibliography
Interested in more examples of rangers? These notable 
pieces of fantasy literature, comics, cinema, and video 
games contain exemplars of the ranger class. There are 
many, many more, but these should get you started.
•	 Blizzard Entertainment, Inc. World of Warcraft video 
game, 2004. (Rexxar, Champion of the Horde)
•	 Disney. Beauty and the Beast movie, 1991. (Gaston)
•	 John Flanagan. The Ruins of Gorlan and the rest of 
the Ranger's Apprentice series, 2004. (Will)
•	 Robert Kirkman. The Walking Dead, 2003.
(Daryl Dixon)
•	 George R.R. Martin. A Game of Thrones, 1998. 
(The Night’s Watch)
•	 Andre Norton. The Beastmaster and the adapted 
movie, 1959. (Dar)
•	 Paramount Pictures Corporation. Crocodile Dundee 
movie, 1986 (Mick Dundee)
•	 Edgar Rice Burroughs. Tarzan of the Apes, 1912. 
(Tarzan)
•	 R.A. Salvatore. The Crystal Shard and the rest of 
The Legend of Drizzt, 1998. (Drizzt Do'Urden)
•	 J.R.R. Tolkien. The Lord of the Rings Trilogy, 
1954-1955. (Aragorn and Legolas)
•	 Touchstone Pictures. 13th Warrior movie, 1999. 
(Edgtho the Silent)
NEW RANGER SUBCLASSES
Flavor your ranger by taking a ranger subclass at 
3rd level. Blade Dancers are rangers that specialize 
in two‑weapon fighting, while Peerless Scouts are 
spell‑less rangers that hone their capabilities with 
tracking and traps.
Blade Dancer
A Blade Dancer is as beautiful to behold as they 
are dangerous. They artfully whirl through melee, 
flowing across the battlefield dodging blows and 
rapidly slicing foes to bloody pieces. While rangers 
are often associated with the longbow, the Blade 
Dancer embodies the spirit of two weapon fighting. 
Facing a Blade Dancer with a weapon in each hand, 
is a dance with death. 
Bob and Weave
When you choose this subclass at 3rd level, you 
become adept at moving in and out of combat with 
two weapons in hand, attacking before your target

--- PAGE 6 ---
6
can defend themselves. You may treat any melee 
weapon that does not have the two-handed property 
as if it had the light property. 
During your turn, if you make a melee attack 
against a creature as a bonus action while two-weapon 
fighting, that creature can’t make opportunity attacks 
against you for the rest of your turn. On a turn in 
which you make an attack while two-weapon fighting, 
difficult terrain doesn’t slow your movement.
Parry
At 7th level you may use your reaction to add 
your proficiency bonus to your AC against one 
melee attack that would hit you. To do so, you 
must see the attacker and be wielding a light 
melee weapon in each hand. Once you use this 
feature, you must finish a short or long rest 
before you can use it again. Starting at 13th level, 
you can use it twice before a rest, but only once on 
the same turn.
Superior Two-Weapon Fighting
At 15th level, when you engage in two-weapon 
fighting, you gain a +2 bonus to damage rolls with each 
weapon. Once while two-weapon fighting on your 
turn, you can rend a creature that you hit with two 
attacks, dealing an extra 3d6 damage to that creature.
Dance of Death
Starting at 17th level, as a bonus action you can 
perform a dance of whirling death that lasts 
until the end of your turn. When you take an 
Attack action while engaging in two-weapon 
fighting, you may make a melee attack for every 
5 feet that you move, up to a maximum number of 
attacks equal to your proficiency bonus. No more than 
half of your attacks can use the same weapon. Your 
movement does not provoke opportunity attacks while 
using dance of death. Once you use this feature, you 
must finish a long rest before you can use it again.
Peerless Scout
To protect the edges of society from encroaching 
monsters, rangers learn to navigate various terrains, 
and acquire nature magic to make them better hunters. 
The Peerless Scout forgoes those spells to strengthen 
their relationship to the terrain they fight in. They 
become consummate guides who can sense subtle 
changes in terrain or an enemy’s demeanor and use 
that information to protect their allies. They control 
the battlefield with a supernatural ability to quickly set 
traps and predict the movement of their foes.
The Peerless Scout takes advantage of the Tracking 
in Combat and Booby Traps optional rules found in 
this supplement.
Preternatural Augment
When you choose this subclass at 3rd-level, you 
undergo a ritual that strengthens your connection to 
the world around you at the expense of your ability to 
work magic. You lose the ability to cast ranger spells 
but continue to gain spell slots. You can use spells 
slots, from this or other classes, to enhance your 
ability to track in combat and create magical booby 
traps. You gain two of the following Preternatural 
Augments of your choice. You gain another one at 9th 
and 13th level. You can use only one Preternatural 
Augment at a time, unless otherwise noted.
Cunning Trap. When placing a Booby Trap, you 
expend one spell slot to increase the DC to find, 
disable, and save against the trap by 1 per level of the 
slot expended.

--- PAGE 7 ---
7
Extra Ally. When Tracking in Combat, you expend 
one spell slot to affect additional allies equal to the 
level of the slot expended. 
Deadly Traps. When placing a Booby Trap, you 
expend one spell slot to increase the damage done by 
a trap that does damage by an additional 1d6 per level 
of the slot expended. 
Focus Ally. When Tracking in Combat, you expend 
one spell slot to increase the bonus granted to one ally 
equal to the level of the slot expended. 
Fueled By Magic. When creating a Booby Trap, 
you expend one spell slot to create one trap or 
improvement per level of the slot expended. This 
allows you to add more than one improvement to a 
trap. These traps do not require any raw materials but 
disappear after 1 hour. 
Long Range Plan. When Tracking in Combat, you 
expend one spell slot to extend the duration of the 
benefit granted to one ally by a number of rounds 
equal to the level of slot expended. 
Rapid Deployment. You place a Booby Trap as a 
bonus action by expending one spell slot. The trap 
remains for a number of rounds equal to the level of 
the slot expended. 
Safe Path. When Tracking in Combat, you expend 
one spell slot to make your allies affected by a 
Tracking in Combat benefit able to pass through your 
Booby Traps without triggering them. The number of 
allies affected is equal to the level of the slot expended. 
Swift Assessment. When Tracking in Combat, you 
expend one spell slot to Track in Combat as a bonus 
action. The granted benefit lasts a number of rounds 
equal to the level of the slot expended. 
Widen Trap. When placing a Booby Trap, you can 
expend one spell slot to have the trap affect a number 
of additional 5-foot squares equal to the level of the 
slot expended.
Experienced Explorer
At 7th level your Booby Traps placed while in your 
favored terrain automatically gain one improvement 
with no additional cost or time to construct it. You 
gain advantage on Wisdom (Survival) checks to Track 
in Combat while in your favored terrain.
Situational Awareness: Impromptu Ambush
At 15th level, your experience and training coalesce 
into a state of heightened situational awareness. As an 
action, you may expend your situational awareness 
while Tracking in Combat or placing a Booby 
Trap. You can expend your situational awareness to 
magically create one of two effects: Contingent Attack 
or Unseen Trap.
Contingent Attack. You declare a perceivable action 
the target of your Tracking in Combat might take 
as a triggering event. Allies who gain a benefit from 
your Tracking in Combat may immediately make 
one single melee or ranged weapon attack against the 
target if they witness the declared triggering event. 
An ally’s attack gains a bonus to hit equal to your 
proficiency bonus. This attack requires no action from 
your allies and may only occur once per target per 
day.
Unseen Trap. While in direct line of sight of your 
foes, you can expend your situational awareness to 
place a Booby Trap at exactly the right time when no 
one is looking at you, even if you are not hiding. The 
trap is considered hidden and must be found with a 
Wisdom (Perception) check as normal.
When you expend your situational awareness to 
use Improptu Ambush, you choose which effect to 
create. You must finish a short or long rest to use your 
situational awareness again.
Situational Awareness: Master Ambusher
Starting at 17th level, as an action you can expend 
your situational awareness to access the battlefield, 
give suggestions to your allies, and place a flurry of 
traps. You automatically succeed on a roll for Tracking 
in Combat against one creature that you can see and 
place six Booby Traps within 30 feet of you. These 
Booby Traps cannot be placed in the same spot or 
adjacent to another Booby Trap. Additionally, you 
may expend two spell slots, one to augment your 
Booby Traps and one to augment your Tracking in 
Combat benefit at no additional cost in money, time, 
or materials.
When you expend your situational awareness to use 
Master Ambush, you must finish a long rest to use 
your situational awareness again.
FABLED MAGICAL WEAPONS
Rangers are hard on their equipment, but a few fabled 
magical weapons survive their rigors.
Featherwing
This magical longbow is crafted from colorful feathers, 
each arm resembling a bird’s wing with the string tied 
between their tips.
In times of legend, the wood elven ranger Syllania, 
sometimes called the Silverstar among her people, 
rescued a giant owl from ravenous harpies. 
Unbeknownst to Syllania, that owl was Prince Amylix 
of the Feathered Kingdoms, and grateful for his

--- PAGE 8 ---
8
rescue by the young elf, he ordered a magical longbow 
created for her using the feathers of his avian subjects. 
Called Featherwing, Sullania would use her magical 
longbow in the defense of woodland realms until 
her death at the hands of the dragon Gadirthex. 
Featherwing then passed into the dragon’s hoard 
where it is assumed to still lie, though there are 
rumors that the dragon has bestowed the weapon 
upon one of its minions in exchange for loyal service. 
Featherwing
Weapon (Longbow), Fabled (5th Level and Higher Proper­
ties Require Attunement by an Elf)
While holding Featherwing, gentle breezes rustle your 
hair and stir your clothes. Should you fall, comforting 
winds buoy your descent, and you take no damage 
from falls of 60 feet or less. For falls of greater than 60 
feet, subtract 60 from the total fall height to determine 
falling damage.
Favored Winds (Requires Attunement). As your 
level increases, you gain the following benefits while 
wielding or holding this longbow.
5th level. You have a +1 bonus to attack and damage 
rolls made with this magic longbow. Whenever you roll 
a 20 on your attack roll with this weapon, the target 
must succeed on a DC 13 Strength saving throw or be 
pushed up to 5 feet away from you by violent winds. 
9th level. Whenever you attack with this magic 
longbow, you gain a flying speed equal to your 
walking speed until the end of your turn. 
13th level. While holding Featherwing, you have 
advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely 
on hearing or sight. In addition, when you hit with an 
attack using this magic longbow, the target takes an 
extra 1d6 force damage as invisible claws tear at them.
17th level. You have a +2 bonus to attack and 
damage rolls made with this magic longbow. While 
holding this magic longbow, you always have a flying 
speed equal to your walking speed and you don't 
provoke opportunity attacks when you fly out of an 
enemy's reach.
Deadfall and Fetch
These paired handaxes have well-worn, coppery wooden 
handles and dull gray blades that show signs of heavy 
use. A fallen tree is engraved upon the head of Deadfall, 
and a thunderhead is engraved on the head of Fetch.
Deadfall and Fetch are set of paired handaxes first 
owned by the hill dwarven ranger Deblim Flintcoat. 
Deblim came from a long line of lumberjacks and 
coal miners in the Red Hills but was filled with a 
wanderlust uncommon in dwarves. Shortly after 
leaving home with a pair of axes given to him by his 
parents, he met and became a traveling companion 
of the wizard Anishan Fateshaper who is believed to 
have enchanted the axes for his friend.
Deadfall and Fetch
Weapon (Paired Handaxes), Fabled (5th Level and 
Higher Properties Require Attunement by a Creature 
with the Two-Weapon Fighting Style)
You have a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made 
with both Deadfall and Fetch. When holding both 
handaxes, you can activate them to gain advantage on 
Wisdom (Survival) checks for 1 hour. Once used, this 
property can’t be used again until the next dawn.
Swiftly Hewn (Requires Attunement). As your 
level increases, you gain the following benefits while 
wielding or holding both of these paired axes. You 
cannot use any of these abilities unless holding both 
axes. 
5th level. Whenever you roll a 20 on your attack 
roll with Deadfall, the target must succeed on a DC 
13 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. When 
throwing Fetch, you may make ranged attack at long 
range without disadvantage.
9th level. When you use an action to make an attack 
with one of these handaxes while two-weapon fighting 
and use a bonus action to make a melee attack with 
the other of these magical handaxes, you may make 
an additional attack with either handaxe.
13th level. Deadfall gains 3 charges. You spend 
1 charge and use an action to slam Deadfall to the 
ground, causing violent vibrations to spread out from 
you in a 30-feet cone. Creatures within the area of 
effect take 6d6 thunder damage and fall prone unless 
they succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw. 
Creatures that succeed take half damage and do not 
fall prone. Deadfall regains all expended charges daily 
at dawn. Fetch returns to your hand immediately after 
it is used to make a ranged attack.
17th level. Melee attacks with Deadfall do an 
additional 2d6 thunder damage to Constructs and

--- PAGE 9 ---
9
Plants. Ranged attacks with Fetch do not incur 
disadvantage when made within 5 feet of a hostile 
creature.
Trainer’s Whip
The wood-bound handle of this braided whip ends in a 
small animal paw. The leather is embossed impressions 
of claws, hooves, beaks, and pointed teeth. 
The trainer’s whip was the property of Cruinna 
Finnthighearn, a ranger known for her menagerie 
of animal friends. Unfortunately, the ship carrying 
Cruinna sank in a violent storm. While the ranger 
and her companions survived the ordeal by working 
together, she was forced to leave behind much of her 
gear. When the ship went down, a trunk containing 
the trainer’s whip, among other things, was lost. 
Whether her magical whip lies at the bottom of the 
sea, or the trunk washed up on some beach remains 
to be seen.
Trainer’s Whip
Weapon (Whip), Fabled (5th Level and Higher Properties 
Require Attunement)
Each day after completing a long rest, you may choose 
one friendly Beast that you can see within 60 feet of 
you. That Beast gains 1 trick until you activate the 
magic whip again. 
Beast Friend (Requires Attunement). As your 
level increases, you gain the following benefits while 
wielding or holding this magical whip. 
5th level. While within 5 feet of your chosen Beast, 
you each gain +1 AC. 
9th level. Your chosen Beast’s attacks become 
magical. When you take an attack with this magical 
whip, your chosen Beast may use a reaction to make 
an attack against the same target. 
13th level. Your chosen Beast has a +1 bonus to 
attack and damage rolls. When your chosen Beast hits 
a creature with an opportunity attack, that creature’s 
speed becomes 0 until the start of your next turn.
17th level. Each day when you choose your Beast, 
you can store a single spell of 1st through 5th level 
in your Beast by touching the whip to the Beast as 
the spell is cast. If you attempt to store another spell 
in your Beast, any previously stored spell is lost. The 
spell uses the slot level, spell save DC, spell attack 
bonus, and spellcasting ability of the original caster, 
but is otherwise treated as if the Beast cast the spell. 
The Beast does not choose when to cast the spell, but 
rather it takes effect when a certain circumstance 
occurs. You choose that circumstance when the 
spell is stored. The spell is cast with any parameters 
set by the original caster, requiring no components, 
immediately after the circumstance is met for the first 
time, whether or not you want it to.
OPTIONAL RULES
This section provides a number of optional rules for 
use by any character class, but they are especially 
appropriate for rangers.
Downtime Activity: Animal Tricks
A ranger’s animal companion sometimes seems like 
an extension of their will, taking necessary actions 
without needing to be told. While many rangers share 
a special bond with their Beast friend, they also spend 
a lot of time training them to take useful actions 
without requiring a successful Wisdom (Animal 
Handling) check in combat to just to coax them into a 
useful position. 
You can spend 10 downtime days and 1 gp per day 
to teach a trick to a friendly Beast. A Beast can learn a 
maximum number of tricks equal to their Intelligence 
score. You can verbally order a creature to perform a 
trick without requiring an action by you.
Here a few sample tricks, though your GM might 
allow others where appropriate for their campaign:
•	 Defend. The Beast protects a person or place that 
you designate, attacking creatures that approach 
that creature or location. 
•	 Fetch. The Beast retrieves an object or takes an 
object somewhere or to someone.
•	 Heel. The Beast follows you closely, even into 
places it might not want to go. It withdraws from 
combat when ordered. 
•	 Help. Unless given a command otherwise, the 
Beast uses its action to assist your next attack 
against an enemy that you have already attacked. 
•	 Hunt. The Beast uses its natural talents to hunt for 
game and brings it back to you. 
•	 Perform. The Beast performs for an audience with 
entertaining tricks such as playing dead or walking 
on its hind legs. 
•	 Stay. The Beast waits somewhere for you. It avoids 
combat and hides, if possible, but defends itself if it 
is cornered. 
•	 Track. Beasts with the Keen Smell trait attempt to 
follow a trail.

--- PAGE 10 ---
10
Tracking in Combat
Rangers are skilled at recognizing patterns in terrain; 
whether picking out the best path up a mountainside 
or noticing the passage of others by tracks left behind. 
Some rangers hone this skill to almost supernatural 
levels such that they can quickly assimilate subtle 
aspects in terrain with actions they have seen enemies 
take to gain an advantage in combat.
You may use an action to make a Wisdom (Survival) 
check. Your advantage to Wisdom (Survival) checks 
from your favored enemy class feature applies to this 
check. The DC for the Wisdom (Survival) check is 
equal to the tracking DC for the ground surface + 
the observed creature’s 
proficiency bonus 
− the number 
of complete 
rounds you 
have observed 
that creature in 
combat. The check can 
be retried on subsequent 
rounds if failed.
If you succeed on a Wisdom (Survival) check to 
track in combat, you grant one benefit of your choice 
from this list below to yourself and a number of allies 
that can hear you up to your proficiency bonus.
•	 Be Not Where They Are. Gain +1 AC the target for 
a number of rounds equal to your proficiency bonus.
•	 Rallying Cry of a Thousand Screams. Gain 
temporary hit points equal to your proficiency 
bonus. Any remaining temporary hit points are lost 
if the creature is defeated or the combat ends. 
•	 Strike Where They Will Be. Gain +1 to hit the 
target for a number of rounds equal to your 
proficiency bonus. 
•	 Swift as the Wind, Hard as a Thunderbolt. If the 
target attempts to move away from you, you may 
spend your reaction to move up to your speed 
TRACKING IN COMBAT DIFFICULTY TABLE
Ground Surface
DC
Impressionable surface: leaf covered, 
mud, fur rug, snow
10 
Average surface: dirt, grass, woven rugs
15 
Hard surface: brick, rock, wood floor
20 
For example, Tersk Greenfellow is startled to see a burly 
orc run down a rocky hillslope to attack his friends. 
Fearing a rockslide, he spends his first round getting his 
horse under control and moving away from the slope. 
He keeps the orc in sight that entire round. In round 
two, Tersk tries to help his friends by making a check 
for Tracking in Combat. The DC for Tersk’s Wisdom 
(Survival) check is 21: 20 (rocky terrain) +2 (the orc’s 
proficiency bonus) −1 (the number of rounds completed 
since the start of the combat). Tersk’s player rolls a 
10 and adds Tersk’s bonus of +4 for a total of 14. The 
terrain is too hard and the orc too unpredictable for 
Tersk to get a useful read this time.

--- PAGE 11 ---
11
towards them. This benefit ends if the creature is 
defeated or the combat ends.
•	 Slip the Grasping Hand. You gain a +1 bonus on 
Escape checks against the target for a number of 
rounds equal to your proficiency bonus.
•	 Walk Unseen. You gain a +1 bonus to Dexterity 
(Stealth) checks made against the target for a 
number of rounds equal to your proficiency bonus.
•	 What Will Be. You gain a +1 bonus to Wisdom 
(Insight) and Wisdom (Perception) checks made 
against the creature.
Booby Traps
As hunters who spend much of their time in 
wilderness areas, rangers are experts in setting traps. 
However, the core rulebook lists only one example: 
the hunting trap. Temporary and quick to set up, traps 
are useful not just for catching dinner, but for offering 
a measure of battlefield control normally reserved 
for druids or wizards. While dungeon traps usually 
require extensive construction, time, and expense, 
Booby Traps can be laid quickly for almost no cost.
Making Booby Traps
While some traps, like a hunting trap, can be 
purchased, others must be built. Constructing a 
trap takes 10 minutes using appropriate tools and 
raw materials. Tools are contained in an appropriate 
tool kit, as specified by the trap. Raw materials can 
be found in any general supply store. If you spend 1 
minute dismantling an existing trap, you can recover 
materials for reuse. 
You can add improvements to the basic version 
of each trap by spending an additional 10 minutes 
in its construction and using additional materials. 
Some booby traps have more than one option for 
improvement. You may only add one improvement 
to a trap unless a class feature allows you to add more 
than one.
Setting Booby Traps
You can quickly deploy preconstructed booby traps 
(that you built or bought ahead of time) by making 
a Wisdom (Survival) check. The total of your check 
becomes both the DC for another creature’s attempt to 
discover the trap and the DC to disable it. Placing and 
hiding a preconstructed trap requires an action. 
The Dexterity saving throw for your traps is DC = 8 + 
your proficiency bonus + your Wisdom modifier.
Using Booby Traps in Combat
If a creature sees you deploy a trap, the creature does 
not need to make a check to locate it. That generally 
makes the trap less useful, but not useless. Traps can 
be used to deny ground to an enemy or delay pursuit. 
An enemy that witnesses a path being trapped must 
likely spend time disabling the trap or finding a way to 
bypass it, possibly by a less advantageous route. During 
combat, a foe can be forced into a trap by using the 
Shove action or other forms of forced movement.
Rangers are also known for their stealth, so you 
might be able to set a trap during combat without 
being observed. A hidden trap requires a Wisdom 
(Perception) check to spot it.
Sample Booby Traps
Here are a few example booby traps. Your GM might 
allow you to create others using these as a guideline.
ALARM TRAP
Required Construction Tool: None
Raw Material Cost: 5 gp
Weight: 2 lbs
This trap consists of several small bells or other noise 
makers attached to a thin wire up to 10 feet long 
which creates a noise when tripped or an attached 
item is moved. It deals no damage, and the wire is not 
strong enough to cause a creature to trip. 
Improvement: You can extend the trip wire by 10 
feet for every additional 2 gp you spend in materials. 
EXPLOSIVE TRAP
Required Construction Tool: Alchemist’s Supplies
Raw Material Cost: 25 gp 
Weight: 1 lb
You craft an alchemical mixture that explodes in a 
1-foot diameter doing 1d4 + your proficiency bonus 
fire damage to the creature that triggers the trap. A 
creature takes half damage on a successful Dexterity 
saving throw.
Improvement: For an additional 15 gp, you improve 
the trap, so the explosion is a 5-ft radius. You can also 
improve the trap so that victim is sprayed with oil 
or other flammable fluid causing them to burst into 
flame if they fail their Dexterity saving throw, taking 
1d4 + your proficiency bonus fire damage at the start 
of each turn until they make a DC 10 Dexterity check 
to extinguish the flames. You can also improve this 
trap to change the type of damage to acid or thunder.

--- PAGE 12 ---
12
POISON CLOUD TRAP
Required Construction Tool: Herbalism Kit or Poisoner’s Kit
Raw Material Cost: 25 gp 
Weight: 1 lb
By mixing poisonous herbs, you create a trap that 
sprays a 5-foot diameter poisonous cloud that deals 1d6 
+ your proficiency bonus poison damage to a creature 
that can breathe. The creature takes no damage on a 
successful Dexterity saving throw. A strong wind gives 
the target advantage on their saving throw. 
Improvement: For an additional 10 gp, you improve 
the trap, adding another 5 feet to the cloud’s radius. 
You can also improve the trap so that the cloud 
persists for an additional round and causes the area to 
be heavily obscured. Creatures that can breathe take 
damage at the end of each turn they are in the affected 
area. A strong wind instantly disperses the cloud. 
RESTRAINING TRAP
Required Construction Tool: None
Raw Material Cost: 5 sp 
Weight: 2 lbs
This trap is made by crafting a snare out of rope 
or natural materials that triggers when stepped in, 
restraining the victim in a specific location. 
Improvement: You improve the trap so that it also 
knocks the target prone if they fail their saving throw 
and pulls the victims 5 feet off of the ground. You can 
also increase the size of the snare area to a 10-foot 
square by including a large net. These improvements 
cost an additional 1 gp.
SLOW TERRAIN TRAP
Required Construction Tool: None
Raw Material Cost: 2 sp 
Weight: 3 lbs
This trap causes stones, marbles, or other loose 
material to fall in a 10-foot radius around the 
victim, making the terrain difficult. A creature 
that fails its Dexterity saving throw 
also falls prone.
Improvement: You improve the 
trap to use caltrops for 1 gp, causing 
a creature that fails its Dexterity saving 
throw to take 1 point of piercing 
damage and reduces the creature's 
walking speed by 10 feet until the 
creature regains at least 1 hit point. 
TRIP ROPE TRAP
Required Construction Tool: None
Raw Material Cost: 5 sp 
Weight: 4 lbs
This trap is made by stretching a strong rope across 
two points up to 20 feet apart. Creatures that fail their 
Dexterity saving throw fall prone. 
Improvement: You can extend the rope by 10 feet for 
every additional 2 gp you spend in materials. You can 
also embed wicked barbs in the rope that do piercing 
damage equal to 1d3 + your proficiency bonus for an 
additional 1 gp. If the target succeeds on their saving 
throw, it takes no damage.
ANIMAL MESSENGERS
Animals can’t talk, but it’s thematic to use them as 
messengers. Whether it’s the classic “get help” or 
warning travelers away from danger, the animal 
messenger is a common trope and useful adventure 
hook. These twenty story hooks begin with an 
interaction with an animal that you can use for 
a random encounter or to spark an entire 
adventure. In these hooks, the type of animal 
is intentionally kept vague so you can tailor 
them to the environment of your game.

--- PAGE 13 ---
13
TABLE HEADING
d20 Animal Story Hooks
1 
Steirie Greenapple has fallen in a pit dug by some dastardly goblins. Her animal companion runs up to the 
characters loudly making noise and running back the way it came, hoping to bring help to its master. 
2 
A very thin animal stops a short distance and whines for food. The animal looks like it’s starving. 
What happen to its ranger companion?
3 
The animal cries out a warning and stomps on the ground trying to warn the characters away from a giant’s 
lair that is in the direction they are traveling. The animal interposes itself if the characters ignore its warning.
4 
The animal companion sees the characters coming and marks its territory so the party knows whose 
territory this is.
5 
The animal companion stands over an unconscious man, growling threateningly if the characters approach. 
They must find a way to prove their good intentions if they want to approach without being attacked. Carllon, 
a young ranger, was ambushed by a rabid mountain lion before his animal companion chased it away.
6 
An animal notices one of the characters is upset or agitated and lays its head on the character, trying 
comfort them.
7
The animal brings a fresh kill, large stick, or shiny rock. If the character takes it, the animal tries to take 
some food or other item the character has that is of interest to the animal.
8
An animal soils a character’s bedroll or shoes to make its displeasure known. What did they do that has 
upset the animal, but not enough to force it to attack?
9
The party hears shouting and angry animal noises. A group of bandits, the Black Hoods, have caught the 
animal in a trap and plan to take it alive so they can use it draw out the ranger when she comes to rescue her 
companion.
10
The animal watches the party from a tree, bush, or other concealment, doing its best to follow them 
stealthily at a distance. If approached or attacked, it runs off to alert its ranger companion of intruders in 
the ranger’s territory.
11
The animal is acting anxious, moving in circles, and making noise. It refuses to be calmed. An hour later 
there is a small earthquake in the area.
12
The animal is lazing beneath a crumbling statue that depicts a long-forgotten nature deity. At night, the 
statue glows and the animal’s Intelligence becomes 8 for one hour. Why the statue only works for this animal 
is just the start of the mystery.
13
The animal drops a blood-soaked glove at the characters feet. If the characters show interest, the animal 
leads them to a merchant caravan that has been attacked by orcs. Illustia, an apprentice wizard, is the only 
survivor and she is unconscious when the party arrives.
14
While caught in a wildfire, the animal rushes past the party, showing a path to safety. Unfortunately, the fire 
is rushing towards a nearby village and the character must act quickly to save the village.
15
Drawn to the sound of an animal in distress, the characters find it injured from an owlbear attack. The 
animal doesn’t initially trust the characters but if healed, can lead them to the owlbear’s lair.
16
Digging in the ground, the animal unearths an explorer’s pack. In the backpack is a scroll tube with a map to 
buried treasure!
17
The animal bursts into the party’s camp, chased by a pack of dire wolves.
18
A heavy dirty rope around its neck, the animal drags three more feet of rope behind it, having chewed its 
way free. The obvious trail leads back to a hut where its ranger companion has been charmed by a hag. The 
ranger tries to protect the hag from rude visitors.
19
The animal is unconscious in a patch of flowers. Animal bones liter the area. The flowers emit a heady aroma 
that poisons those who fail a Constitution saving throw. A long rest in fresh air rouses any victims.
20
The characters come across two animals fighting each other. The rivalry between two rangers, Arthux and 
Tiazas, has grown to such heights that their animal companions have attacked each other on site. A third 
party is needed to mediate the dispute.

--- PAGE 14 ---
14
Roleplaying Animals
Animals don’t communicate in the same ways that 
humans do, so roleplaying animals without talking 
can be a challenge. Here’s a few suggestions for GMs:
Come This Way. To encourage a character to follow 
it, animals will run or fly towards the character and 
then back the way it came while making a lot of noise. 
Some animals feign injury if trying to lure a potential 
predator away from mates or children. Other animals 
might also try to bite a piece of clothing and drag a 
character along.
Getting Attention. Animals often try to get attention 
by making noise and moving around. If the animal 
wants food or attention for itself, it often makes a 
pitiful whining sound. If the animal wants to comfort a 
character, they place a paw or head on the character or 
lie down next to the character. In the animal world, a 
grinning like expression frequently signals submission.
Territorial. Animals warn others away from their 
nests or lairs by marking the area with urine. If a 
character still approaches, the animal likely charges 
threateningly, or if capable of flight dives, at the 
character veering off at the last moment. Some animals 
throw things if they are capable. Many animals rear up, 
change color, raise their arms, or puff up to get larger 
and more threatening.
Warning. Animals frequently warn others of 
predators or danger by loudly barking, growling, or 
chirping. Some animals also pound or stomp on the 
ground before running away. If an animal is insistent in 
preventing a character from walking into danger, it will 
interpose itself between the character and that danger.

--- PAGE 15 ---
15
A FLOCK OF OVER 400 
A FLOCK OF OVER 400 
FEROCIOUS MONSTERS 
FEROCIOUS MONSTERS 
FOR 5TH EDITION!
FOR 5TH EDITION!
TOME OF BEASTS 3 brings you more 
than 400 new monsters including:
• Void knights and breakwater trolls
• Prismatic dragons and royal chimeras
• Stained glass moths and voidclaw zombies
• Breathstealers and witchalders
• Kobold drake riders and hellfire giants
Delight your players with a swarm of new, 
fascinating, and deadly opponents every time!
WWW.KOBOLDPRESS.COM
Kobold Press logo is a trademark of Open Design LLC. ©2022 Open Design LLC.

--- PAGE 16 ---
16
©2022 Open Design LLC. Kobold Press logo is a trademark of Open Design LLC.
Open a Trove 
Open a Trove 
    of
of Wonders
Wonders!
Inside Vault of Magic, find a vast treasure trove 
of enchanted items of every imaginable use—
more than 950 in all! There are plenty of armors, 
weapons, potions, rings, and wands, but that’s 
just for starters. From mirrors to masks, edibles 
to earrings, and lanterns to lockets, it’s all here, 
ready for your 5th Edition game.
This 240-page volume includes:
• More than 30 unique items developed by special guests, including  
Patrick Rothfuss, Gail Simone, Deborah Ann Woll, and Luke Gygax
• Fabled items that grow in power as characters rise in levels
• New item themes, such as monster-inspired, clockwork, and apprentice wizards
• Hundreds of full-color illustrations
• Complete treasure-generation tables sorted by rarity
Amaze your players and spice up your 5th Edition campaign with  
fresh, new enchanted items from Vault of Magic. It’ll turn that next  
treasure hoard into something . . . wondrous!

--- PAGE 17 ---
OPEN GAME LICENSE Version 1.0a
The following text is the property of Wizards of the Coast, Inc. and 
is Copyright 2000 Wizards of the Coast, Inc (“Wizards”). All Rights 
Reserved. 
 1. Definitions: (a)”Contributors” means the copyright and/or 
trademark owners who have contributed Open Game Content; 
(b)”Derivative Material” means copyrighted material including 
derivative works and translations (including into other computer 
languages), potation, modification, correction, addition, extension, 
upgrade, improvement, compilation, abridgment or other form 
in which an existing work may be recast, transformed or adapted; 
(c) “Distribute” means to reproduce, license, rent, lease, sell, 
broadcast, publicly display, transmit or otherwise distribute; 
(d)”Open Game Content” means the game mechanic and includes 
the methods, procedures, processes and routines to the extent 
such content does not embody the Product Identity and is an 
enhancement over the prior art and any additional content clearly 
identified as Open Game Content by the Contributor, and means 
any work covered by this License, including translations and 
derivative works under copyright law, but specifically excludes 
Product Identity. (e) “Product Identity” means product and product 
line names, logos and identifying marks including trade dress; 
artifacts; creatures characters; stories, storylines, plots, thematic 
elements, dialogue, incidents, language, artwork, symbols, designs, 
depictions, likenesses, formats, poses, concepts, themes and 
graphic, photographic and other visual or audio representations; 
names and descriptions of characters, spells, enchantments, 
personalities, teams, personas, likenesses and special abilities; 
places, locations, environments, creatures, equipment, magical 
or supernatural abilities or effects, logos, symbols, or graphic 
designs; and any other trademark or registered trademark clearly 
identified as Product identity by the owner of the Product Identity, 
and which specifically excludes the Open Game Content; (f) 
“Trademark” means the logos, names, mark, sign, motto, designs 
that are used by a Contributor to identify itself or its products or 
the associated products contributed to the Open Game License 
by the Contributor (g) “Use”, “Used” or “Using” means to use, 
Distribute, copy, edit, format, modify, translate and otherwise 
create Derivative Material of Open Game Content. (h) “You” or 
“Your” means the licensee in terms of this agreement. 
 2. The License: This License applies to any Open Game Content 
that contains a notice indicating that the Open Game Content 
may only be Used under and in terms of this License. You must 
affix such a notice to any Open Game Content that you Use. No 
terms may be added to or subtracted from this License except 
as described by the License itself. No other terms or conditions 
may be applied to any Open Game Content distributed using this 
License. 
 3. Offer and Acceptance: By Using the Open Game Content You 
indicate Your acceptance of the terms of this License. 
 4. Grant and Consideration: In consideration for agreeing to use 
this License, the Contributors grant You a perpetual, worldwide, 
royalty-free, non-exclusive license with the exact terms of this 
License to Use, the Open Game Content. 
 5. Representation of Authority to Contribute: If You are 
contributing original material as Open Game Content, You 
represent that Your Contributions are Your original creation and/ 
or You have sufficient rights to grant the rights conveyed by this 
License. 
 6. Notice of License Copyright: You must update the COPYRIGHT 
NOTICE portion of this License to include the exact text of 
the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any Open Game Content You are 
copying, modifying or distributing, and You must add the title, 
the copyright date, and the copyright holder’s name to the 
COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any original Open Game Content you 
Distribute. 
 7. Use of Product Identity: You agree not to Use any Product 
Identity, including as an indication as to compatibility, except as 
expressly licensed in another, independent Agreement with the 
owner of each element of that Product Identity. You agree not 
to indicate compatibility or co-adaptability with any Trademark 
or Registered Trademark in conjunction with a work containing 
Open Game Content except as expressly licensed in another, 
independent Agreement with the owner of such Trademark or 
Registered Trademark. The use of any Product Identity in Open 
Game Content does not constitute a challenge to the ownership 
of that Product Identity. 
 The owner of any Product Identity used in Open Game Content 
shall retain all rights, title and interest in and to that Product 
Identity. 
 8. Identification: If you distribute Open Game Content You 
must clearly indicate which portions of the work that you are 
distributing are Open Game Content. 
 9. Updating the License: Wizards or its designated Agents 
may publish updated versions of this License. You may use any 
authorized version of this License to copy, modify and distribute 
any Open Game Content originally distributed under any version 
of this License. 
 10. Copy of this License: You MUST include a copy of this License 
with every copy of the Open Game Content You Distribute. 
 11. Use of Contributor Credits: You may not market or advertise 
the Open Game Content using the name of any Contributor 
unless You have written permission from the Contributor to do so. 
 12. Inability to Comply: If it is impossible for You to comply 
with any of the terms of this License with respect to some or 
all of the Open Game Content due to statute, judicial order, or 
governmental regulation then You may not Use any Open Game 
Material so affected. 
 13. Termination: This License will terminate automatically if You 
fail to comply with all terms herein and fail to cure such breach 
within 30 days of becoming aware of the breach. All sublicenses 
shall survive the termination of this License. 
 14. Reformation: If any provision of this License is held to be 
unenforceable, such provision shall be reformed only to the extent 
necessary to make it enforceable. 
	 15. COPYRIGHT NOTICE 
Open Game License v 1.0a Copyright 2000, Wizards of the Coast, 
LLC.
	 System Reference Document 5.1 Copyright 2016, Wizards of the 
Coast, Inc.; Authors: Mike Mearls, Jeremy Crawford, Chris Perkins, 
Rodney Thompson, Peter Lee, James Wyatt, Robert J. Schwalb, 
Bruce R. Cordell, Chris Sims, and Steve Townshend, based on 
original material by E. Gary Gygax and Dave Arneson.
	 Book of Blades: Expanding the Ranger © 2023 Open Design 
LLC; Author: Greg Marks.