   Winter 2012 Issue 20                           Go Now, and Speed Well!
                                                                                                    ™




     A Strong Bow and a Full Quiver



    The            Archer
    5 New Magical
       Arrows
    Veteran
         PCs


                                                                Tieflings, Gnomes, &
                                                           Minotaurs
    100% Official Content
     6.99
     EURO




                                 New Zobeck Adventure / 5 AGE Specializations / The Bardic Arts /
                                 Unique Summoned Creatures / Shadow Elves Go Hunting /
                                 Nightmarish Monsters / Ask the Kobold / Christina Stiles Q&A /
     US $8.99




                                       Monte Cook’s Game Theories / Book Reviews & More….
                                                  www.koboldquarterly.com
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
                                 TM




         PRESENTS




   QUESTIONS
          ABOUT RPG DESIGN?

       Monte Cook, Ed Greenwood, Mike Stackpole
       and other industry veterans have the answers
       you asked for...and the advice you need!




                                                                             W     ant to create great new
                                                                                   adventures, monsters and
                                                                             magic for your RPG campaign?
                                                                             Maybe even design your own game?
                                                                             The Complete Kobold Guide
                                                                             to Game Design offers nearly
                                                                             300 pages of in-depth essays on what
                                                                             makes RPGs tick. Get time-tested
                                                                             advice from the top designers in the
                                                                             industry—now with all-new material
                                                                             by Wolfgang Baur, Mike Stackpole
                                                                             and others!



             BUY THE COMPLETE KOBOLD GUIDE TO GAME DESIGN TODAY AT
                        KOBOLDQUARTERLY.COM
                                      OPEN DESIGN and Kobold Quarterly are trademarks of Open Design LLC.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
        Fearsome Foes Awai †!




                                                                                                         Sea!
                                 Myth and Magic from across the


        Pathfinder Bestiary 3
                  Available Now!
                                                                        PAIZO.COM/PATHFINDER
                                                 Paizo Publishing, LLC, the Paizo golem logo, and Pathﬁnder are registered
                                                 trademarks of Paizo Publishing, LLC, and the Pathﬁnder Roleplaying Game is
                                                 a trademark of Paizo Publishing, LLC. © 2011 Paizo Publishing, LLC.



James Larsen (Order #51905805)
                           NO GAME LEFT BEHIND
       There is a rite of passage for gamers. It’s called Gen Con. Since 1967, the word has spread and a legend has grown –
            if it can be played, this is where you find players playing it. TCGs, RPGs, LARPs, miniatures, electronic and
       board games are just a fraction of the fun. “The Best 4 Days In Gaming!” is more than a promise. It’s written in stone.



            AUGUST 16-19, 2012                                                                                     Don’t get left behind. Join the
                                                                                                                 game convention that started it all.
                                 INDIANAPOLIS, IN
                                                                                                                    Pre-register before June 30
             Co-Sponsor                                                              Co-Sponsor




                             gencon.com                                                                              and save some resources.
                                 Gen Con, the Gen Con logo, and The Best Four Days in Gaming! are trademarks of Gen Con LLC. All rights reserved. Used under authorization.

James Larsen (Order #51905805)
            Contents
          Editorial
          Hitting the Target .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 4

          Features

          The Elven Archer                                                               8
          by John E. Ling, Jr.
          The Pathfinder Roleplaying Game scores a bulls-eye with this
          all-new, race-exclusive base class.
          Arrows of the Arbonesse                                                      14
          by Jarrod Camiré
          From tangling webs to choking fog, the Arbonesse elves fashion
          arrows to make any archer superhero green with envy.
          Derro Ooze Magic                                                             16
          by Nicholas L. Milasich
          Learn ogygian spells of filth and decay gleaned from slimes
          and oozes by the derro, and recruit the mindless, spineless
          scavengers as loyal familiars.
          Servants from Beyond                                                        26                          on the Cover
          by Mario Podeschi
                                                                                                                  The winter season brings us the "Snow
          Strike bargains of power, glory, and fame with these four
                                                                                                                  Queen" by Richard Clark, whose work
          cosmic creatures from the furthest realms of creation.
                                                                                                                  was previously featured on the cover of
                                                                                                                  issue #11


          Characters
          Putting the Band Back Together  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 46
          by Stefen Styrsky                                                                    Columns
                                                                                               The Power of the Game Master  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 38
          AGE of Specialization  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 52             by Monte Cook
          by Randall K. Hurlburt
          The Bardic Arts .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 60        Ask the Kobold  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 62
                                                                                               by Skip Williams
          by Aaron Infante-Levy
          Unearthed Ancestry  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 68             Kobold Diplomacy:
          by Jerry LeNeave                                                                     Bardic Charisma Meets Crunch and Chickens  .  .  . 54
                                                                                               by Jeremy L. C. Jones
          Fish of Legend  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 73
          by Crystal Frasier                                                                   Coming Next Issue  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 79
                                                                                               by Kobold Staff
          Design and DMing
          Night Terrors  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 34      Book Reviews  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 76
          by Jack Graham                                                                       by William Banks, Ben McFarland, Wade Rockett, and Pierce Watters
          Captured in the Cartways  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 40                Free City of Zobeck:
          by Christina Stiles
                                                                                               The Ruins of Arbonesse  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 80
          Fey Hunters & Shadow Hounds  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 48
                                                                                               by Jeff Grubb
          by Christopher Bodan
          Small Spirits  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 64   Comics
                                                                                               Bolt & Quiver  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 20
          by Matthew J. Hanson
                                                                                               d20 Monkey  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 44
          Make Haste! .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 70      10'x 10' Toon  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 78
          by Ron Lundeen


James Larsen (Order #51905805)
          Editorial:
          Hitting the Target
          I
              ’ve loved archery since before I was old enough to pull a   or grand melee. Rather a pity. Maybe kids today have a
              bow. I remember the Walt Disney Robin Hood movie,           wider range of feudal sports available.
              and Robin Hood books in general, introducing me
          to a wonderland of heroes fighting for justice in a cruel         In any case, I spent a summer or two shooting at targets 30
          world. Their arrows flew unerringly through the air to pin      feet away, then 40 feet, drawing a rather scrawny bow (20 lb
          evildoers to trees, separate money-sacks from belts, and        pull). The arrival of Olympic archery opened my eyes to the
          sever the hangman’s cruel rope. This was very different from    magnificence of a recurved bow with sights and pulleys. The
          the swords and lances and heavy armor of King Arthur’s          bow hunters were another eye-opener (imagine having to get
          knights. They always struck me as jocks, and maybe a little     about 40 feet away from a deer instead of 140 feet). And of
          bit too blue-blooded for me to aspire to.                       course, the sheer badassery of Bard of Lake Town shooting
                                                                          down Smaug with his black arrow was the highlight of The
            But the archers were always the sorts of heroes I could       Hobbit for me. Archers kill dragons, and the dwarves just stick
          understand. Anyone, even a peasant, can draw a bow and go       around to claim the loot. Archers earned it.
          hunting. And the archer isn’t caught in the chaos of melee,
          where size and speed are important. For an archer, aim and        So to me, archers have always been cool. This issue, we
          skill are the thing. Archery also appealed to me because it     celebrate the women and men who nock the arrows and
          was rather more an individual sport than, say, running a        let fly. With a new elvish archer base class, hunting in the
          tourney full of riders and lancers.                             forests, and new arrows, there’s lots of tools for both player
                                                                          and DM who seek to hit the target.
           The main consideration, of course: my local parks
          department did not offer classes in horsemanship, jousting,      What’s your favorite archery story?




                                                                                                                      Kobold in Chief




James Larsen (Order #51905805)
        Be the Bad Guy
        How many times have
        you saved the world?
        This time the world
        needs saving
        from you.




        An Adventure Path featuring 20 levels
                     of Irredeemable Villainy


                                                                                                                                      www.ﬁremountaingames.com
     Pathﬁnder and associated marks and logos are trademarks of Paizo Publishing, LLC, and are used under license. See paizo.com/pathﬁnderRPG for more information on the Pathﬁnder Roleplaying Game.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
              Winter 2012                                                                                                                            Volume 5, Issue 3




                                                                                          Kobold Quarterly™ Magazine is published four times a year by Open Design LLC.
                                                                                          No part of this magazine may be reproduced (except for review purposes) without
                                                                                          the prior written consent of the publisher. Material published herein may not nec-
                                                                                          essarily reflect the opinions of Open Design, its owner and patrons, or its contribu-
                                                                                          tors, who are not liable for opinions expressed herein. Most product names are
                                                                                          trademarks owned by the companies that publish those products. Use of the name
                                                                                          of any product without mention of trademark status should not be construed as a
                                                                                          challenge to such status. Pathfinder is a registered trademark of Paizo Publishing,
                                   Kobold-in-Chief: Wolfgang Baur                         LLC, and the Pathfinder Roleplaying Game and the Pathfinder Roleplaying Game
                                     Cover Design: Richard Clark                          Compatibility Logo are trademarks of Paizo Publishing, LLC, and are used under
                                                                                          the Pathfinder Roleplaying Game Compatibility License. See http://paizo.com/
                                 Editorial Assistant: Christopher Bodan                   pathfinderRPG/compatibility for more information on the compatibility license.
                                                                                          Open Design, Kobold Quarterly, KQ, Kobold Magazine, the Advanced Feats logo,
                                     Consulting Editor: Jeff Grubb                        the Midgard logo, and the Kobold logo are trademarks of Open Design LLC.
                                     Web Editor: Miranda Horner                           Subscriptions: Please subscribe at koboldquarterly.com, or send a check or money
                                   Graphic Designer: Callie Winters                       order to PO Box 2811, Kirkland WA, 98083, USA. PDF subscriptions are US$16 per
                                                                                          year. Paper and PDF combined subscriptions are US$38 per year in the United States,
                                       Ad Manager: Shelly Baur                            US$49 in Canada and Mexico, and US$69 elsewhere.
                                  Circulation Director: Pierce Watters                    Back Issues: Visit koboldquarterly.com to pick up back issues of Kobold Quarterly.
                                                                                          Single paper issues of Kobold Quarterly are $8.99 plus shipping. Single PDF issues
                         Gearforged Copywriter/Marketer: Wade Rockett                     are $5.99 and are available at koboldquarterly.com.
            Contributing Authors: Christopher Bodan, Jarrod Camire, Monte Cook,           Advertising: Contact shellybaur@koboldquarterly.com for current rates. All ads are
            Crystal Frasier, Jack Graham, Jeff Grubb, Matthew J. Hanson, Randall K.       subject to approval, and KQ reserves the right to reject any ad for any reason.
          Hurlburt, Aaron Infante-Levy, Jeremy L.C. Jones, Jerry LeNeave, John E. Ling,   Open Game Content: The “Archer” class, the magic arrow statistics in the “Arrows of
                                                                                          the Arbonesse", the spells in "Derro Ooze Magic", and the monster stats in "Derro
           Jr., Ben McFarland, Nicholas L. Milasich, Mario Podeschi, Wade Rockett,        Ooze Magic," "Servants from Beyond," "Small Spirits," and "Fish of Legend" are all
                Christina Stiles, Stefen Styrsky, Pierce Watters, and Skip Williams       Open Content. All other material is Product Identity. No other portion of this work may
                                      Cover Artist: Richard Clark                         be reproduced in any form without permission.
                                                                                          Submissions and Design: Each issue of Kobold Quarterly Magazine supports Open
              Contributing Artists: Fred H. Ball, Hablot Knight Browne, Storn Cook,       Design, an RPG design community. Article queries are accepted from freelancers,
              Katy Hargrove, Blake Henriksen, Rick Hershey, Michael Jaecks, Jeremy        from KQ subscribers, and from Open Design members. To become a member, visit
                     Mohler, Jeff Preston, Jason Rainville, and Frank Walls               koboldquarterly.com and sign up as a patron of an Open Design project.
                                    Cartographer: Sean Macdonald
                                                                                                                           Printed in the U.S.A.
                                    Court Calligrapher: Shelly Baur
                                                                                                                   ©2012 Open Design LLC




                                                                                      This Kobold Courier is Lost
                                                                                 Help! Despite his glorious garments, this kobold courier is lost
                                                                                 and confused. The address he wishes to deliver to has changed —
                                                                                 and no one told him!
                                                                                 Poor sad courier.
                                                                                 Don't let this happen to your subscription; keep your courier
                                                                                 going to the right address!
                                                                                 To update your address, please send an email with your old and
                                                                                 new address to subscriptions@koboldquarterly.com, or send a
                                                                                 letter or postcard to

                                                                                 Change of Address
                                                                                 C/O Kobold Quarterly
                                                                                 PO Box 2811
                                                                                 Kirkland, WA 98083

                                                                                 And we'll make sure that your issue is delivered correctly and with
                                                                                 minimal delay.




          6      Winter 2012
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
       Try these great RPG solutions from Inkwell Ideas!
                 NEED A GREAT-LOOKING MAP,                                                  NEED A PLACE TO EXPLORE,
                BUT DON’T HAVE A LOT OF TIME?                                          OR FOR YOUR PLAYERS TO CALL HOME?




                                          Hexographer specializes in
                                                                                                                   Draw a map using traditional line
                                          letting you quickly make hex
                                                                                                                   art map symbols, then...
                                          maps in the classic RPG style.


                                                                                                      Click one button and
                Starmaps for other games are
                                                                                                   see the same map with
                          also easy to make.
                                                                                                “battlemat” style symbols.

                                          Map graphics can be switched
                                                                                                                                  Battlemat style
                                          with just a few clicks in the
                                                                                                                                  graphics can be used
                                          Pro version.
                                                                                                                                  to print in a 1”/square
                                                                                                                                  scale. Print a map of
                   Icons for classic 1st edition                                                                                  any likely encounter
                   style maps are also built-in.                                                                                  area.


        “Within 15 minutes, I had drawn the terrain for my current                                                                Dungeonographer
        campaign. In under an hour, the towns, roads, and rivers                                                                  also features a built-in
        were added. The intuitive interface really made things simple,                                                            random dungeon
        and the maps had an ‘old school’ vibe...” — Gnome Stew.                                                                   generator.

         Give the free version a try at www.hexographer.com                                   See more at www.dungeonographer.com




                                 DungeonMorphs will remind many long-time
                                 gamers of the classic geomorph booklets of
                                 dungeon maps. The revised designs are 10x10
                                 areas with corridors at the same locations on each
                                 side making them connectable at any rotation.
                               They are available as dice (3 sets of 5 dice each      Create a coat of arms for your character,
        with all different designs), a 90-card deck, a font of all 90 designs or a    NPCs, kingdoms, or other organizations.
        PDF of battlemats.                                                            Outside of gaming, use it to create
        Grab a few DungeonMorph Dice, roll them, then push them together!             your own coat of arms or recreate an
        Or deal a dungeon with the card deck! Or type a dungeon using any             ancestor’s.
        word processor with the font!                                                 Over 200 built-in graphics. Other graphics and supporters, helms,
        Create an instant dungeon or use them as inspiration when creating            and mantling may be added using the pro version.
        your own dungeon.

                 Order online at www.dungeonmorphs.com                                Try it at www.inkwellideas.com/coat_of_arms

        Other free tools at www.inkwellideas.com:
        City Map Generator • Village Generator • Superhero Generator                              Inkwell       Ideas
                                                                                                    www.inkwellideas.com
        Inn Floorplan/Menu/Rumor/Staff/Patron Generator
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
       The Elven Archer




          The Elven Archer
               For Some Heroes, the Arrow Strikes Swift and True
          By John E . Ling, Jr .
          Art by Rick Hershey




          M
                          any folks have traveled   his homeland. Elven archers typically        Additionally, their precise archery
                          through the forest        take a broad definition of protection,       provides excellent ranged support for
                          under the watchful eye    however, and they can often be found         melee fighters.
          of an elven archer and never realized     far from home, hunting a specific              Race: Elven archers must be elves or
          it. Masters of stealth in natural         foe or skirmishing with evil races to        half-elves.
          environments, elven archers use deadly    prevent them from becoming too                 Adaptation: The easiest adaptation,
          marksmanship to eliminate threats.        strong—thereby becoming a future             of course, is to simply remove the
          They maintain a protective eye on         threat to his people.                        racial requirement—or replace it with
          travelers who respect nature and the        Role: Elven archers are adept at           another. A quick name change allows
          forest, but quickly deal abusers a        quickly dealing with a single foe. They      the elven archer to become the human
          painful lesson.                           have some of the ranger’s skills, such       king’s elite bowyers. Changing the class’
             While the elven archer respects and    as the ranger’s superior tracking ability,   focus to thrown weapons rather than
          safeguards nature, he does not venerate   and so can fill that role in a group, if     bows and adding Quick Draw to the
          it like druids or rangers. Instead, he    necessary. Elven archers excel at hit-       allowable bonus feats, creates another
          honors the spirits of his ancestors       and-run tactics: they skirmish with a        interesting adaptation of this class, such
          and elven archer forebears, spending      large group, disappear into the forest,      as knife thrower—which would be
          time each morning communing with          and then return later to strike at a more    fantastic for halflings! Finally, the elven
          their spirits, who grant him access       advantageous time. In groups of less         archer’s abilities could be modified to
          to divine spells. The archer, in turn,    stealthy characters, elven archers defend    function with crossbows rather than
          uses this provided power to protect       weaker members such as arcane casters.       a standard bow. In that scenario, add


          8     Winter 2012
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
          Rapid Reload to the list of bonus feats.     bow experts. At 2nd level, and
            Alignment: Any, but usually matches        every three levels thereafter, the              Arbonesse Exiles and
          the predominant alignment of his             elven archer receives a bonus feat in           Daughters of Perun
          home community.                              addition to those gained from normal            In the Midgard campaign setting,
            Hit Die: d8.                               advancement. The elven archer must              the Arbonesse Forest is home to
                                                       meet all the prerequisites of the feat          rather few elves after the Great
          Class skills                                 prior to selecting it.                          Retreat. As is typical in an elven
          The elven archer’s class skills are            An elven archer may select these              community, many classes are
          Acrobatics (Dex), Climb (Str), Craft         bonus feats from the below-listed               represented among these people.
          (Int), Handle Animal (Cha), Heal             combat feats with this class ability. For       A predominant number, however,
          (Wis), Knowledge (dungeoneering)             prerequisites, treat his elven archer level     are elven archers. They use their
          (Int), Knowledge (geography) (Int),          -3 as his fighter level. For example,           power to keep the old roads
                                                                                                       safe, occasionally fighting with
          Knowledge (nature) (Int), Perception         a 7th-level elven archer qualifies for
                                                                                                       humans from Allain or creatures
          (Wis), Profession (Wis), Ride (Dex),         Weapon Specialization because he
                                                                                                       from the Wastes.
          Spellcraft (Int), Stealth (Dex), Survival    treats his fighter level as 4th.                   The most powerful elven
          (Wis), and Swim (Str).                         Elven archers may select these bonus          archers among the Arbonesse
            Skill Ranks per Level: 6 + Int             feats from the following list: Deadly           Exiles faithfully serve a single
          modifier.                                    Aim, Far Shot, Greater Weapon                   lord, fervently doing his bidding
                                                       Focus, Greater Weapon Specialization,           to protect the community. Elven
          Class Features                               Improved Critical, Improved Precise             archers encountered on roads
          All of the following are class features of   Shot, Manyshot, Pinpoint Targeting,             outside the Arbonesse Forest are
          the elven archer.                            Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Rapid           typically on secret missions for
            Weapon and Armor Proficiencies:            Shot, Shot on the Run, Weapon                   their lord, like recovering lost
          An elven archer is proficient with all       Focus, and Weapon Specialization.               elven artifacts. A handful of elven
                                                                                                       archers were forced out of the
          simple and martial weapons and with          Elven archers must select a bow when
                                                                                                       River Court for egregious slights.
          light armor and bucklers.                    selecting a feat that allows them to               You can read more about the
            Track (Ex): Elven archers regularly        choose a weapon, such as Improved               Arbonesse Exiles and the Arbonesse
          stalk their prey through the forests.        Critical or Weapon Focus.                       Forest in the Midgard Bestiary:
          An elven archer adds half his level              Preferred Target (Ex): Much like            Volume 1, the Midgard Campaign
          (minimum 1) to Survival skill checks         a ranger, an elven archer becomes an            Setting, and Sunken Empires.
          made to follow or identify tracks.           expert at hunting a specific foe. At 3rd           Among non-elven archers, the
            Wild Empathy (Ex): An elven                level, the elven archer selects a creature      Daughters of Perun are famed as
          archer can improve the initial attitude      type (and subtype) where appropriate)           amazons, skilled with bow and
          of an animal. This ability functions         from the list of ranger’s favored               arrow. Their divine ruler grants
          just like a Diplomacy check to               enemies. Against those creatures, he            gifts of land and titles to her best
          improve the attitude of a person. The                                                        archers, and the Perunian archers
                                                       gains a +2 bonus on Bluff, Knowledge,
                                                                                                       are justly famous for their skill.
          elven archer rolls 1d20 and adds his         Perception, Sense Motive, and Survival
                                                                                                       They could easily adopt this class
          elven archer level and his Charisma          check. Likewise, he gets a +2 bonus on          as well. They practice diligently,
          bonus to determine the wild empathy          weapon attack and damage rolls against          have learned secrets of archery
          check result. The typical domestic           them.                                           from Perun himself as well as
          animal has a starting attitude of              The elven archer may make                     from the Rothenian centaurs and
          indifferent, while wild animals are          Knowledge skill checks untrained when           windrunner elves. Their diligence
          usually unfriendly.                          attempting to identify these creatures.         with the bow keeps their small
            To use wild empathy, the elven archer      At 10th level, the bonus increases to           kingdom strong, and is the despair
          and the animal must be within 30 ft.         +4, and at 17th level it increases to           of their enemies.
          of one another under normal visibility       +6. (Unlike a ranger, an elven archer
          conditions. Influencing an animal in         does not select an additional favored
          this way takes 1 minute, but it might        creature type at these levels.)               applies when the elven archer uses a
          take more or less time under especially        Precision (Ex): Beginning at 4th            bow while within 30 feet of the target.
          stressful or favorable conditions.           level, an elven archer adds the indicated     The extra damage increases by 1d6
            The elven archer can also use this         damage bonus to any shot he makes             every five elven archer levels thereafter.
          ability to influence a magical beast with    against a foe who is denied Dexterity         At 16th level, when the elven archer
          an Intelligence score of 1 or 2, with a      to AC (whether the target already has         gains the ability to flank with the
          -4 penalty on the check.                     a Dexterity bonus or not). This extra         bow, this damage also applies to shots
            Bonus Feat: Elven archers are              damage is 1d6 at 5th level, and it only       against flanked targets.


                                                                                                                    Kobold Quarterly 20       9
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
       The Elven Archer


            The elven archer must be able to see         spell level, he gains only the bonus       any other impairment. Thorns, briars,
          the target well enough to pick out a           spells he would be entitled to based on    and overgrown areas that have been
          vital spot and must be able to reach           his Wisdom score for that spell level.     magically manipulated to impede
          such a spot. A rogue cannot sneak                An elven archer must spend 1 hour        motion, however, still affect him.
          attack while striking a creature with          per day in quiet meditation with the       In addition, the elven archer leaves
          concealment.                                   spirits to regain his daily allotment of   no trail in natural surroundings and
            Spells: Beginning at 4th level,              spells. An elven archer may prepare and    cannot be tracked. He may choose to
          an elven archer can call upon his              cast any spell on the ranger spell list,   leave a trail if so desired.
          ancestors and forebears, granting him          provided that he can cast spells of that       Swift Tracker (Ex): Beginning at
          the ability to cast a small number of          level, but he must choose which spells     8th level, the elven archer can move at
          divine spells, which are drawn from            to prepare during his daily meditation.    his normal speed while using Survival
          the ranger’s spell list.                         Through 3rd level, an elven archer       to follow tracks without taking the
            To prepare or cast a spell, an elven         has no caster level. At 4th level and      normal -5 penalty. He takes only a -10
          archer must have a Wisdom score of 10          higher, his caster level is equal to his   penalty (instead of the normal -20)
          + the spell level. The Difficulty Class        elven archer level - 3.                    when moving at up to twice normal
          for a saving throw against an elven                Camouflage (Ex): The elven archer      speed while tracking.
          archer’s spell is 10 + the spell level + the   may use the Stealth skill to hide in any       Enchant Arrows (Su): Beginning
          elven archer’s Wisdom modifier.                natural environment, even if he does       at 9th level, the elven archer gains the
            Like other spellcasters, an elven            not have cover or concealment.             ability to imbue arrows (only arrows)
          archer can cast only a certain number              Lightfoot (Ex): An elven archer        with ambient arcane energy once
          of spells of each spell level per day. His     spends his life in the woods, often far    per day. He must spend 15 minutes
          base daily spell allotment is given on         from home. Starting at 7th level, an       communing with his ancestral spirits to
          Table 1: Elven Archer. In addition, he         elven archer may move through any          gain this ability; at the end of the ritual,
          receives bonus spells per day if he has        sort of undergrowth (such as natural       he imbues up to 50 arrows with an
          a high Wisdom score. When Table 1:             thorns, briars, overgrown areas, and       enhancement of his choice.
          Elven Archer indicates that the elven          similar terrain) at his normal speed and     At 9th level, he may imbue any
          archer gets 0 spells per day of a given        without taking damage or suffering         ability up to a +1 enhancement bonus.




James Larsen (Order #51905805)
      Return to Ferelden with Dragon Age, Set 2!
                                                  O
                                                  nly fools now deny that a new Blight is upon Thedas. It rises in the south in the land
                                                  of Ferelden. By cunning strategy or cruel fate, Ferelden is where the Grey Wardens
                                                     are weakest. Now new heroes must make their names. New Grey Wardens must fill
                                                          the order’s dwindling ranks. Will you answer the call and carry the duty that
                                                                 cannot be foresworn?
                                                                       The Dragon Age RPG has been called the best introduction to roleplaying in
                                                                        30 years. Now the exciting that began in Set 1 continue in the highly anticipated
                                                                         Set 2. This beautiful boxed set includes everything a group needs to continue a
                                                                         Dragon Age RPG campaign with characters of levels 6 to 10.
                                                                             Dragon Age, Set 2 includes an 80-page Player’s Guide, an 80 page Game Master’s
                                                                             Guide, six reference cards for combats, stunts, and spellcasting, and a grogeous
                                                                              poster map detailing the world of Thedas. Its many highlights include:
                                                                              • Grey Wardens! Rules for joining the order and extensive background
                                                                                on its history and practices.
                                                                             •    neW stunts! Roleplaying and exploration stunts round out AGE’s
                                                                                  acclaimed stunt system.
                                                                             •    neW Gear! Full rules for the creation and use of poisons, grenades, and
                                                                                  traps.
                                                                             •    thedas revealed! Background info on the dwarves of Orzammar, the
                                                                                  religions of Thedas, and more.
                                                                             •    neW backGrounds! There are eleven to choose from, including Antivan
                                                                                  Wayfarer, Qunari Beresaad, and Orlesian Exile.
                                                                             •    sPecializations! Expand your class with new options like arcane
                                                                                  warrior, berserker, and assassin.
                                                                             •    neW sPells! The addition of nearly 40 new spells triples the number
                                                                                  mages can choose from.
                                                                                   And there’s much, much more! Return to the world of BioWare’s
                                                                                        Dragon Age video games, fight for Ferelden and face the Blight
                                                                                                   in Dragon Age, Set 2!




                                                                                                                           Fight the
                                                                                                                            Blight!
            Green ronin PublishinG                                      Green Ronin, Adventure Game Engine, and their associated
            3815 S. Othello St. Suite 100, #304                              logos are trademarks of Green Ronin Publishing.
            Seattle, WA 98118
            www.greenronin.com                                 EA and EA logo are trademarks of Electronic Arts Inc. BioWare, BioWare logo,
                                                              and Dragon Age are trademarks of EA International (Studio and Publishing) Ltd.
                                                                     All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.


                                                                                                                                   Kobold Quarterly 20   11
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
       The Elven Archer




             Table 1: Elven Archer
                            Base     Fort Ref Will                                                      Spells per Day
                Level       Attack   Save Save Save   Special                                 1st      2nd     3rd     4th
                1st           +1      +2   +2   +0    Track, wild empathy                     —         —       —       —
                2nd           +2      +3   +3   +0    Bonus feat                              —        —        —      —
                3rd           +3      +3   +3   +1    Preferred target                        —         —       —      —
                4th           +4      +4   +4   +1    Precision +1d6                           0       —        —      —
                5th           +5      +4   +4   +1    Bonus feat                               0       —        —      —
                6th           +6      +5   +5   +2    Camouflage                               1       —        —       —
                7th           +7      +5   +5   +2    Lightfoot                                1        0       —      —
                8th           +8      +6   +6   +2    Bonus feat, swift tracker                1        0       —      —
                9th           +9      +6   +6   +3    Enchant arrows +1, precision +2d6        2        1       —      —
                10th         +10      +7   +7   +3    Close combat shot                        2        1       0      —
                11th         +11      +7   +7   +3    Bonus feat                               2        1       0      —
                12th         +12      +8   +8   +4    Enchant arrows +2                        2        1       1      —
                13th         +13      +8   +8   +4    Take aim                                 3        2       1       0
                14th         +14      +9   +9   +4    Bonus feat, precision +3d6               3        2       1       0
                15th         +15      +9   +9   +5    Enchant arrows +3                        3        2       2       1
                16th         +16     +10 +10    +5    Threatening shot                         3        2       2       1
                17th         +17     +10 +10    +5    Bonus feat                               3        3       2       1
                18th         +18      +11 +11   +6    Enchant arrows +4                        4        3       2       1
                19th         +19      +11 +11   +6    Precision +4d6                           4        3       3       2
                20th         +20     +12 +12    +6    Bonus feat                               4        3       3       2




                                                                                                Close Combat Shot (Ex):
                                                                                              Beginning at 10th level, the elven
                                                                                              archer no longer provokes attacks
                                                                                              of opportunity when making a
                                                                                              ranged attack with his bow. When
                                                                                              making other ranged attacks, such as
                                                                                              throwing a dagger, the elven archer
                                                                                              provokes as normal.
                                                                                                Take Aim (Ex): At 13th level, an
                                                                                              elven archer may spend a full round to
                                                             Every three levels thereafter,   aim at a target. If the target remains
                                                             the bonus increases by +1.       stationary (moves no more than 5 ft),
                                                               The elven archer may           he may add half his class level to all
                                                            spend these bonuses as he         ranged attacks he makes against that
                                                          sees fit. For example, a 12th-      target within the next round.
                                                        level elven archer could enhance        Threatening Shot (Ex): Beginning
                                                     his arrows with a +2 bonus, or           at 16th level, the elven archer is so
                                                  he could enhance them with a +1             deadly with his bow, he may flank
                                                  bonus and the keen ability. Once            targets. He threatens an area at 10 ft.
                                                  the abilities are set, they cannot          away, but not adjacent.
                                                  be changed until the next day’s
                                                  ritual. Unlike when crafting magical
                                                  weapons, the elven archer need not
                                                  invest an initial +1 enhancement            Designer’s Note: Special thanks to
                                                  bonus before imbuing the arrows             Jeannette Cartwright for playtesting
                                                  with special properties. For example,       this class over the past three years, and
                                                  a 12th-level elven archer could imbue       to Susan Ling, Tim DeCapio, Sandy
                                                  his arrows with keen and flaming.           DeCapio, and Kieth Coleman for
                                                    The enchantment lasts for one hour        putting up with the occasional glitch in
                                                  per level.                                  the class’s design.                       Ω


          12      Winter 2012
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
                                 TM




      presenTs




        Make Your Own Rules
                                                                The Kobold Guide to board Game desiGn
                                                                gives you an insider’s view on how to make
                                                                games that people will want to play again and
                                                                again.
                                                                Author Mike Selinker (Betrayal at House on the
                                                                Hill) has invited 15 of the world’s most talented
                                                                and experienced game designers to share their
                                                                secrets. You’ll learn about storyboarding,
                                                                balancing, prototyping, and playtesting from
                                                                the best in the business.
                                                                The book’s 15 contibutors include:
                                                                    • Richard Garfield (Magic: The Gathering)
                                                                    • Steve Jackson (Munchkin)
                                                                    • Dale Yu (Dominion)
                                                                    • James Ernest (Kill Doctor Lucky)
                                                                    • Lisa Steenson (Redneck Life)
                                                                Whether you’re an enthusiast who wants a
                                                                deeper understanding of the hobby, an aspiring
                                                                designer looking to break into the industry, or a
                                                                seasoned pro who knows there’s always more to
                                                                learn, there’s something for you in the pages of
                                                                the Kobold Guide to board Game desiGn.




                     AvAilAble Now At koboldquArterly.com
                                      Open Design is a trademark of Open Design LLC.     Kobold Quarterly 20   13
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
       Arrows of the Arbonesse




          T
                                                        CONSTRUCTION
                    he archer knows that the right
                                                        Requirements Craft Magic Arms and              Arbonesse Arrows
                    arrow at the right time can           Armor, acid splash; Cost 59 gp             Arrow Type                  Value
                    turn a good shot into a great                                                                              per Arrow
          one. The height of the arrow-making            ACID SPLASH ARROW                           Acid splash arrow          100 gp
          arts was lost in the Great Retreat of         Aura none (non-magical); CL none             Acid splash arrow,          20 gp
                                                                                                       non-magical
          the elves, but much is remembered by          Slot none; Price 20 gp; Weight 1/10 lb.
                                                                                                     Acid splash arrow,         380 gp
          humans and windrunner elves.                  DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                        advanced
            The elves of Midgard make a number          This masterwork arrow breaks on
                                                                                                     Fisher’s filament arrow    175 gp
                                                          impact, releasing a dose of acid
          of specialty arrows common to the               dealing 1d3 points damage.                 Fog arrow                  350 gp
          Arbonesse and the Rothenian Plains            CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                     Obscuring mist arrow       125 gp
          that artfully combine the craftsmanship       Requirements Craft (bow) DC                  Razor’s filament arrow      45 gp
          of a master fletcher, expert bladesmith,        21; Cost 10 gp                             Silent night arrow          70 gp
                                                                                                     Web arrow                  475 gp
          and sometimes a skilled glassblower. The
          archers of Perun’s Daughter, as skilled        ACID SPLASH ARROW,
          as any elven archer, have also learned          ADVANCED                                 CONSTRUCTION

          to craft these arrows for their armies,                                                  Requirements Craft Magic Arms and
                                                        Aura faint conjuration; CL 6th               Armor, acid arrow; Cost 196 gp
          making them very dangerous foes.              Slot none; Price 380 gp; Weight 1/10 lb.
                                                        DESCRIPTION                                 FISHER’S FILAMENT ARROW
           ACID SPLASH ARROW                            The head of this +1 arrow seems partly     Aura none (non-magical); CL none
                                                          corroded. When the missile strikes
          Aura faint conjuration; CL 4th                                                           Slot none; Price 175 gp; Weight 1/10 lb.
                                                          it target, it deals 2d4 points of acid
          Slot none; Price 100 gp; Weight 1/10 lb.        damage in addition to its normal         DESCRIPTION
          DESCRIPTION                                     arrow damage. Such arrows deal           When this masterwork arrow is
          This +1 arrow’s glass tip breaks on impact,     even more damage when created by          released, a thin filament of sticky silk
            releasing a magical splash of acid            high-level casters.                       trails behind the projectile; before
            dealing 1d3+1 points of acid damage.                                                    the arrow is fired, the thread must


          14      Winter 2012
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
             be anchored with a thin metallic                                                         threads can be detected with a DC 20
             wire and hook, which are part of the        OBSCURING MIST ARROW                         Perception check.
             device. The filament generally has         Aura faint abjuration; CL 5th               CONSTRUCTION
             a maximum length of 100 ft. Arrows         Slot none; Price 125 gp; Weight 1/10 lb.    Requirements Craft (bow) DC
             with longer filaments exist, but           DESCRIPTION                                   23; Cost 25 gp
             they are more expensive and more           This +1 arrow breaks on impact,
             difficult to fashion (50 gp more per         releasing a magical cloud of misty
             50 ft. of filament added; +2 DC check        vapor that spreads in a 20-ft. radius
                                                                                                     SILENT NIGHT ARROW
             modifier for each 50 ft. added).             around the point of impact, with a        Aura none (non-magical); CL none
          CONSTRUCTION                                    height of 20 ft. The arrow duplicates     Slot none; Price 70 gp; Weight 1/10 lb.
          Requirements Craft (bow) DC 25,                 the effects of an obscuring mist spell.   DESCRIPTION
            cave fisher’s gland, liquid with high       CONSTRUCTION                                Thanks to its unique design, this black
            alcohol content or a dose of universal      Requirements Craft Magic Arms and             masterwork arrow doesn’t emit the
            solvent; Cost 156 gp                          Armor, obscuring mist; Cost 71 gp           slightest sound while in flight, thus
          NOTE: A cave fisher’s gland is worth                                                        making the archer quite hard to
            100 gp according to the Pathfinder           RAZOR’S FILAMENT ARROW                       pinpoint (+2 circumstance bonus to
            Roleplaying Game Bestiary, and a                                                          Stealth checks).
            dose of universal solvent is worth 50       Aura none (non-magical); CL none
                                                                                                    CONSTRUCTION
            gp. A masterwork arrow is worth 6 gp.       Slot none; Price 45 gp; Weight 1/10 lb.
                                                                                                    Requirements Craft (bow) DC
                                                        DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                      25; Cost 35 gp
           FOG ARROW                                    When this masterwork arrow is released,
                                                         a thin metallic wire trails behind the
          Aura faint conjuration; CL 6th                 projectile. The thread must be anchored
                                                                                                     WEB ARROWS
          Slot none; Price 350 gp; Weight 1/10 lb.       before the arrow is fired (a section of    Aura faint conjuration; CL 6th
          DESCRIPTION                                    the thin metallic wire equipped with       Slot none; Price 475 gp; Weight 1/10 lb.
          When this +1 arrow hits, it releases a bank    a hook emerges from the arrow for          DESCRIPTION
           of magical billowing fog from the point       this very purpose). Anyone walking         These +1 arrows always come in pairs
           of impact in the direction designated by      through the cutting wire suffers 1d6+1       and must be fired simultaneously to
           the archer prior to launch, duplicating       hp damage; those running through the         deploy the web spell linking them
           the effects of a fog cloud spell.             wire suffer 2d6+2 hp damage, but the         together, with each arrow representing
          CONSTRUCTION                                   metallic thread generally snaps after        an anchor point as required by the spell.
          Requirements Craft Magic Arms and              the first victim (90% chance). A razor’s   CONSTRUCTION
            Armor, fog cloud; Cost 196 gp                filament is AC 15 (touch 13) has 1 hit
                                                                                                    Requirements Craft Magic Arms and
                                                         point, and has DR 10/slashing. Such
                                                                                                      Armor, web; Cost 242 gp (pair)  Ω




James Larsen (Order #51905805)
       Ooze Magic




          Derro Ooze Magic
               New Discoveries and Archetypes for Alchemists
          By Nicholas L . Milasich
          Art by Michael Jaecks



          D
                   eep within the earth, the       grants a +1 to each damage die or +1 to    a maximum of +5 at 20th level. This
                   twisted false-dwarves called    the saving throw DC of an ooze magic       bonus stacks with other such bonuses.
                   derro worship dark, forbidden   spell. Using the bile of an innocent         Ooze Touch (Sp) Your arm
          deities and traffic with abhorred and    of the above races adds 25% to the         transforms into a slimy pseudopod
          forgotten evils. These ancient powers    duration of to an ooze magic spell with    (as a swift action), allowing you an
          offer dark lore to the derro savants,    a duration greater than instant. Using     immediate melee touch attack on any
          including spells and rituals of ooze-    or trading in such components is an        target within your standard reach +5ft.
          friendship. Supposedly, only the truly   evil act.                                  The attack does 1d4 hp acid damage +1
          insane can master these magics and                                                  for every two wizard levels you possess.
          bind their essence with the alien,       ooze sChool                                You can use this ability a number of
          mindless slimes of the deep earth.       Associated School: Transmutation           times per day equal to 3 plus your
          Indeed, only unstable creatures—such       Replacement Powers: The                  Intelligence modifier.
          as skum, worshippers of ancient slime    following powers replace the physical        Ooze Form (Sp) At 8th level, you
          gods, and derro—commonly use ooze        enhancement, telekinetic fist,             can change your shape for a number
          magic. However, rumors whisper of        and change shape abilities of the          of rounds equal to your wizard level.
          ooze-worshiping cults spreading among    transmutation school.                      These rounds need not be consecutive.
          deranged goblinoids and degenerate         Ooze Mind (Su) You gain a +2             This ability otherwise functions like
          humans, for such magic can impart        bonus to saving throws against mind-       ooze shape I. You can also move through
          considerable power.                      affecting effects (charms, compulsions,    and among all creatures with the ooze
            Ooze magic allows for enhanced         phantasms, patterns, and morale            subtype without suffering any harm.
          spell components. Using the eye of an    effects). This bonus increases by +1 for   At 12th level, ooze form functions like
          innocent human, elf, dwarf, or gnome     every five wizard levels you possess to    ooze shape II.


          16      Winter 2012
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
          ooze Bloodline                               subtype without suffering any harm.
          As a result of horrible experimentation      At 12th level, ooze form functions like
          or the unholy union of slithering            ooze shape II.
          tracker and humanoid, your bloodline           Ooze Mind (Ex): At 15th level, you
          contains the foul ichor of the ooze.         are considered mindless with regard
          This foulness gives you horrific powers.     to all spells and abilities. You cannot
            Class Skill: Knowledge                     be targeted by scrying spells or your
          (dungeoneering)                              thoughts cannot be read.
            Bonus Spells: oozy transparency              Split (Su): At 20th level, you gain the
          (3rd), slime form (5th), lesser ooze touch   split ability of an ochre jelly. Only the
          (7th), ooze form I (9th), greater ooze       original has your identity, the rest are
          touch (11th), ooze form 2 (13th), greater    mindless. You gain resistance 10 to all
          polymorph (15th), ooze form III (17th),      energy types.
          shapechange (19th).
            Bonus feats: Combat Casting,               ooze suBsChool spells
          Improved Disarm, Improved Grapple,           The spells of the ooze school are few
          Improved Initiative, Improved                in number but absolutely distinctive.
          Unarmed Strike, Iron Will, Silent Spell,     Derro, humans, and a few goblins most
          Skill Focus (Knowledge [forbidden]).         often know them.
            Bloodline Arcana: When you cast a
          spell of the Ooze subschool, increase        1st-level spells
          the damage by 1 per damage die or the
          duration by 25% (minimum 1 round).            MUCUS SPRAy
          This duration bonus does not stack.          School evocation (ooze); Level Sor/wiz
            Bloodline Powers: As you grow                1, witch 2
          in power, the hideous effects of the         Casting Time 1 standard action
          pollution in your blood manifest as a        Components V, S, M (a bit of phlegm)
                                                       Range 15 ft.
          series of eerie powers.
                                                       Area cone-shaped burst             NK_sixthpageBlueV3.indd 1                   4/11/10 11:
            Mucus Spray (Sp): Starting at 1st          Duration instant (daze 1 round)
          level, you can unleash a cone-shaped         Saving Throw Reflex half; Spell
          burst of acidic mucus within a 15-ft.          Resistance yes
          range. This spray deals 1d6 hp acid
          damage for every two sorcerer levels           The caster sprays a fine mist of
          you possess. You can use this ability        poisonous mucus. The mucus is acidic
          a number of times per day equal to 3         and has psychedelic properties. The
          plus your Charisma modifier.                 mucus does 1d4 hp acid damage per
            Gray Ooze Nature (Ex): At 3rd level,       caster level. In addition, a failed save
          you gain resist cold or resist fire 5        leaves the targets dazed for one round.
          and a +2 bonus on saving throws
          made against mind-affecting effects           OOZy TRANSPARENCy
          (charms, compulsions, phantasms,             School transmutation (ooze); Level
          patterns, and morale effects). At 9th          bard 2, sor/wiz 1, witch 1
          level, your chosen resistance increases      Casting Time 1 standard action
          to 10 and your bonus on mind-                Components S, M (a cube of clear
                                                         jelly)
          affecting saving throws increases to         Range touch
          +4. In addition, oozes do not attack         Target one non-ooze creature
          you unless you move into contact             Duration 1 min./level
          with them.                                   Saving Throw none (Will); Spell
            Ooze Form (Sp): At 9th level, you            Resistance no
          can change your shape for a number             This spell renders the flesh, clothing,
          of rounds equal to your wizard level.        and gear of a creature transparent,
          These rounds need not be consecutive.        inflicting a -8 to Perception checks
          This ability otherwise functions like        to locate this creature. The penalty
          ooze shape I. You can also move through      increases to -10 if the creature remains
          and among all creatures with the ooze        perfectly still.


                                                                                                               Kobold Quarterly 20   17
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
       Ooze Magic


                                                                                                         The spell’s subject becomes a sentient
                Lesser Ooze Touch Options                                                              jelly, though it retains its original
             Pseudopod           Description            Additional Effect                              shape (humanoid or otherwise). This
             Gelatinous Cube     Square cross           Paralysis (DC caster level)                    transmutation does not hinder the target
                                   section, clear                                                      in any way. The target becomes immune
             Grey ooze           Grey, slimy            1d6 acid damage to clothes/armor               to critical hits and sneak attacks and
                                                          (Ref save)
             Slime mold          Green, releases        Fungus rot: save Fort; onset 1 day;            gains DR 5 vs. slashing and piercing
                                   spores                 freq. 1/day; effect 1d2 Str damage           weapons. If the caster has a caster level
                                                          and 1 Con damage and fatigue cure            of 10 or greater, the DR increases to 10
                                                          1 save. Effect lasts until cured             vs. slashing and piercing weapons.
             Ochre jelly         Yellowish brown,       Damage is nonlethal, paralysis
                                   slimy                  (DC caster level)
                                                                                                       4th-level spells
             Ooze Touch Options
                                                                                                        OOZE SHAPE I
             Pseudopod           Description       Additional Effect
             Shoggoth            studded with      grapples with CMD of 30 for 3 rounds                School transmutation (ooze,
                                   mouths and eyes                                                       polymorph); Level alchemist 4, druid
             Id Ooze             grey, slimy        confusion – Will DC for 3 rounds                     4, sor/wiz 4, witch 4
             Black Pudding       black and slimy   21 acid damage to armor/clothing                    Casting Time 1 standard action
                                                     (Ref save)                                        Components V, S, M (a bit of slime
                                                                                                         from the ooze you wish to become)
                                                                                                       Range personal
          2nd-level spells                               Casting Time 1 standard action                Target you
                                                         Components V, S, M (a piece of dried          Duration 1 min./level
           SLIME FORM                                      skin in the shape of a lash)                Saving Throw none; Spell Resistance no
          School transmutation (ooze); Level             Saving Throw none; Spell Resistance no          When you cast this spell, you assume
            druid2, sor/wiz 2, witch 2                   Range touch                                   the form of any Small or Medium creature
          Casting Time 1 standard action                 Target one non-ooze creature                  of the ooze type. If the form you assume
          Components S, M (a pinch of slime              Duration instantaneous
                                                                                                       has any of the following abilities, you gain
            mold spores)                                 Saving Throw see text; Spell
          Range touch                                      Resistance no                               them: split (caster gains DR 10 vs. slashing
          Target willing non-ooze corporeal                                                            or piercing weapons), transparent, and
            creature touched                               This spell transforms one of the caster’s   acid. If the creature has climb or swim,
          Duration 2 min./level                          or target’s limbs into a slimy pseudopod.     you gain that movement type at 10 ft. per
          Saving Throw none; Spell Resistance no         If the limb is the caster’s, this spell       round. You don’t gain full immunity to
            The subject and all of its gear              allows an immediate touch attack.             mind-affecting effects, but you do gain a
          collapse into a pool of greenish liquid.         The caster chooses the color and            +2 resistance bonus on all saving throws
          The creature gains +5 AC and material          effect of the pseudopod at the time           against such effects. You gain blindsight and
          armor becomes worthless, though                of casting, but the range of the attack       are immune to flanking and sneak attack.
          size, Dexterity, deflection, and armor         always remains 5 ft. more than the
          bonuses from forces still apply.               target’s normal attack range. The             5th-level spells
            While in slime form, the creature            pseudopod does 1d4+1 acid damage
          becomes immune to sneak attacks and            per caster level and has another               OOZE TOUCH
          critical hits, but it cannot attack or cast    effect that lasts for one round, unless       School transmutation (ooze); Level
          spells with verbal, somatic, material,         otherwise noted. All saves use the              druid 5, sor/wiz 5, witch 6
          or focus components, and it also loses         caster’s DC. Derro slavers often make         Casting Time 1 standard action
          any supernatural abilities. The creature       use of potions of ooze touch, lesser to       Components S, M, V (a piece of dried
                                                                                                         skin in the shape of a lash)
          can squeeze through any opening                capture dangerous underdark creatures.        Range Creature Touched
          larger than 1 inch and gains a +20 to                                                        Target one non-ooze creature
          Climb rolls for the spell’s duration. The       JELLIED RESILIENCE                           Duration instant
          subject’s movement drops to 10 ft. per         School transmutation (ooze); Level            Saving Throw see text; Spell
          round until the spell ends.                      bard 2, druid 2, witch2, sor/wiz 2            Resistance no
                                                         Casting Time 1 standard action                  This spell transforms the caster’s limb
          3rd-level spells                               Components V, S, M (a cube of clear jelly)    into a slimy pseudopod and grants an
                                                         Range touch
                                                                                                       immediate touch attack. The caster
                                                         Target one non-ooze creature
           OOZE TOUCH, LESSER                            Duration 1 min./level                         chooses the color and effect of the
          School transmutation (ooze); Level             Saving Throw none (Will); Spell               pseudopod at the time of casting. The
            druid 3, sor/wiz 3, witch 3                    Resistance no                               pseudopod does 1d6+1 hp acid damage


          18      Winter 2012
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
          From Vikings to Billy the Kid—
             Fall Reading from Pyr




                     Fenrir                         Blackdog                    The Third Section                The Doctor and The Kid
         448 pp • $16.00 • October 2011    525 pp • $17.00 • September 2011   480 pp • $16.00 • October 2011         A Weird West Tale
           ISBN 978-1-61614-527-9             ISBN 978-1-61614-521-7            ISBN 978-1-61614-531-6            320 pp • $16.00 • December 2011
                                                                                                                     ISBN 978-1-61614-537-8
         “A richly imagined fantasy        “High fantasy for lovers of        “Kent has magically blended
         fashioned from history,           mythology and of powerful          history, folklore, and story-      “A fast, fun, and often
         mythology, and strange            beings in human form, this. . .    telling to produce a superb        amusing tale where Wild
         destinies . . . . One of the      debut should appeal to fans        account of the Dekabrist           West meets steampunk. . . .
         most entertaining historical      of Robert Jordan’s Wheel of        revolt. [The Third Section]        told in a spare style remini-
         fantasy sagas of recent years.”   Time series.”                      is set during the Crimean          scent of a tale told ’round
                —Publishers Weekly                   —Library Journal         War and expected to exer-          the campfire. . . . It’s a
                                                                              cise the same fascination.”        modern-day tall tale with
                                                                                                 —Booklist       the requisite larger-than-
                                                                                        (starred review for
                                                                                                                 life characters.”
                                                                                     Thirteen Years Later)
                                                                                                                            —Miami Herald
                                                                                                                                   (review for
                                                                                                                       The Buntline Special)




                                                                                                                  ebook editions also available
                    www.pyrsf.com • www.facebook.com/PyrBooks • 800-421-0351                         The Third Section cover art by Paul Young

                                                                                                                Kobold Quarterly 20        19
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
          per caster level and has another effect      base save bonuses, and hit points). It         Split divides the caster into two similar
          dependent on the caster’s choice of          retains any class features (other than         jellies or oozes, each with half of the
          pseudopod. See Ooze Touch Options table      spellcasting) that aren’t extraordinary,       character’s hit points. One contains
          on page 18. All saves use the caster’s DC.   supernatural, and spell-like abilities.        the caster’s intelligence. The other is
                                                         Because a target’s gear does not             mindless, though it does not attack other
          6th-level spells                             transform with it, any items fall under        creatures with the ooze type. When the
                                                       or within the ooze’s body, which may           spell ends, any other oozes created in this
           FLESH TO OOZE                               mean the items are destroyed. If the ooze      way disappear, and the remaining hit
          School transmutation (ooze,                  has the split ability, splitting the ooze      points return to the caster. A caster who
            polymorph); Level sorcerer/wizard 6        creates one ooze that retains the creature’s   takes the form of a Tiny ooze gains a +4
          Casting Time 1 standard action               original identity (for the purpose of          size bonus to Dexterity and a -2 penalty
          Components V, S, M (alchemical               memories or restoring the creature) and        to Strength. A caster who takes the form
            reagents worth 100 gp)
          Range close (25 f. + 5 f./2 levels)
                                                       one normal mindless ooze of that type.         of a Large ooze gains a +4 size bonus to
          Target one creature or see text                                                             Strength and a -2 penalty to Dexterity.
          Duration permanent                            OOZE SHAPE II
          Saving Throw Fortitude negates, Will         School transmutation (ooze,                    new Feat: ooze Familiar
            partial, see text; Spell Resistance yes      polymorph) Level alchemist 6, druid          Prerequisites: 5th level, ooze magic
                                                         6 sor/wiz 6, witch 6                           specialization
            This spell functions like baleful
                                                       Casting Time 1 standard action
          polymorph, except the target becomes                                                        Wizards specializing in the ooze
                                                       Components V, S, M (a piece of the
          an ooze of its size. A creature of 3 HD        ooze you wish to replicate)                  school can take an ooze familiar.
          or less becomes a gray ooze, 4–9 HD          Range personal                                 These Tiny oozes have many of the
          becomes a gelatinous cube or ochre           Target you                                     special features associated with larger
          jelly, and 10+ HD becomes a black            Duration 1 min./level                          oozes of their type. Their combat
          pudding. Alternatively, instead of a                                                        abilities can be a sharp surprise to
          creature you may target a quantity of        This spell functions as ooze shape I and       those who assault the ooze wizard in
          inert flesh (such as that created by the     also allows you to assume the form of          close combat.
          stone to flesh spell) of sufficient mass,    a Tiny or Large creature with the ooze           This Tiny ooze has hit points and other
          which becomes an ooze of your choice.        type. If the form you assume has any           statistics as noted below. It has most
            If the spell succeeds, the subject         of the following abilities, you gain the       of the powers of a larger ooze, and its
          must also make a Will save. If this          ability: acid, paralysis, transparent,         saves equal to 10 + the caster level of its
          second save fails, the creature loses its    engulf, corrosion, split, and suction.         master. Due to the unnatural connection
          extraordinary, supernatural, and spell-      If the creature has climb or swim, you         between wizard and ooze, the ooze grows
          like abilities, loses its ability to cast    gain that movement at the creature’s           more intelligent over time, eventually
          spells (if it had the ability), and gains    movement rate (max 30 ft.). You don’t          able to speak with its master. It loses the
          the alignment, special abilities, and        gain full immunity to mind-affecting           mindless trait, but its alien nature gives it
          Intelligence, Wisdom, an Charisma            effects, but you do gain a +4 resistance       a +4 bonus to resist any mind-affecting
          scores of its new form in place of its       bonus on all saving throws against             spell or effect. As a Tiny creature, it must
          own. It still retains its class and level    such effects. You also gain blindsight         be in an opponent’s square to strike. An
          (or HD), as well as all benefits deriving    and are not vulnerable to flanking or          ooze familiar suffers no penalties to attack
          therefrom (such as base attack bonus,        sneak attack.                                  anyone grappling its mage.




          20      Winter 2012
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
                                 What’s your                             status?


    Mark your status                                                    Simplify your game
    Use our one-inch and two-inch magnetic status markers to            Our products are designed for a wide
    instantly depict your character status. Whether you’re playing      variety of tabletop roleplaying games; all
    4th Edition, Pathfinder, or house rules, our markers enhance your   editions of Dungeons & Dragons (4th Edition,
    RPG experience. Try red for bloodied, blue for flying, green for    3rd Edition, and 3.5), Pathfinder, Hackmaster,
    poisoned, or establish your own house rules with our 18+ colors.    Savage Worlds, and other D20 game systems.




       Save now on shipping! Enter coupon code KOBOLD281 at checkout
       for FREE SHIPPING to U.S. and APO addresses now through 2/28/12 at AleaTools.com.

                                                SHARE US WITH A FRIEND!
                                          facebook.com/AleaTools                  twitter.com/AleaTools

                                                              AleaTools.com
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
       Ooze Magic


                                                       Space 2–½ ft.; Reach 0 ft.                        Space 2-½ ft.; Reach 0 ft.
            Most ooze mages are not above using a      Special Attacks constrict (1d3-2 plus             Special Attacks engulf (Tiny or smaller
          familiar offensively. As a held action, an     1d4 acid), corrosion                              only), paralysis
          ooze mage may hurl his familiar into the     STATISTICS                                        Statistics
          face of a charging foe or one attempting     Str 6, Dex 11, Con 16, Int –, Wis 1,              Str 6, Dex 11, Con 16, Int: –, Wis 1, Cha 1
          to grapple. In this case, the wizard makes     Cha 1                                           Base Atk +0; CMB -2; CMD 6 (can’t be
          a touch attack. If successful, the ooze      Base Atk +0; CMB -2 (+2 to grapple);                tripped)
                                                         CMD 6 (16 vs. bull rush, can’t be               SQ transparent
          hits with one attack and may attempt to        tripped)                                        ECOLOGY
          grapple. If the touch attack succeeds by     Skills Climb +6                                   Environment any underground
          more than 5, the ooze has latched onto       SQ suction                                        Organization solitary
          the face of the victim, who is blinded for   ECOLOGY                                           Treasure incidental
          one round.                                   Environment any underground                       SPECIAL ABILITIES
            Ooze familiars grant their masters a       Organization solitary                             Acid (Ex) A gelatinous cube’s acid
                                                       Treasure incidental                                 does not harm metal or stone.
          +2 Will save as their special ability.       SPECIAL ABILITIES                                 Engulf (Ex) Although it moves slowly,
                                                       Acid (Ex) A Tiny black pudding secretes             a gelatinous cube can simply engulf
           BLACk PUDDING FAMILIAR          CR 1/3        a digestive acid that dissolves organic           Tiny or smaller creatures in its path
          XP 135                                         material and metal quickly but does not           as a standard action. It cannot make
          N Tiny ooze                                    affect stone. Each time a creature suffers        a slam attack during a round in
                                                         damage from a Tiny black pudding’s                which it engulfs. The gelatinous cube
          Init +0; Senses blindsight 60 ft.,
                                                         acid, its clothing and armor take the             must move over the opponents, and
            perception -5
                                                         same amount of damage from the acid.              it affects as many as it can cover.
          DEFENSE
                                                         A DC 13 Reflex save prevents damage               Opponents can make attacks of
          AC 12, touch 12, flat-footed 12 (+2            to clothing and armor. A metal or wooden          opportunity against the cube, but if
            size)                                        weapon that strikes a Tiny black pudding          they do they do not gain a saving
          hp: 7 (1d8+3)                                  takes 1d4 acid damage unless the                  throw. Those who do not attempt
          Fort +3, Ref +0, Will -5                       weapon’s wielder succeeds on a DC                 attacks of opportunity can attempt
          Defensive Abilities ooze traits                13 Reflex save. If a Tiny black pudding           a DC 10 Reflex save to avoid being
          OFFENSE                                        remains in contact with a wooden or               engulfed—on a success, they are
          Speed 20 ft., climb 20 ft.                     metal object for 1 full round, it inflicts 13     pushed back or aside (opponent’s
          Melee slam +0 (1d3-2 + 1d4 acid plus           hp acid damage (no save) to the object.           choice) as the cube moves forward.
            grab)                                        The save DCs are Constitution-based.              Engulfed creatures are subject to the
                                                       Corrosion (Ex) An opponent                          cube’s paralysis and acid, gain the
                                                         constricted by a Tiny black pudding               pinned condition, are in danger of
                                                         suffers a -4 penalty on Reflex saves              suffocating, and are trapped within its
                                                         made to resist acid damage applying               body until they are no longer pinned.
                                                         to clothing and armor.                            The save DC is Strength-based.
                                                       Suction (Ex) The Tiny black pudding can           Paralysis (Ex) A gelatinous cube
                                                         create powerful suction against any               secretes an anesthetizing slime.
                                                         surface as it climbs, allowing it to cling        A target hit by the cube’s melee or
                                                         to inverted surfaces with ease. A Tiny            engulf attack must succeed on a DC
                                                         black pudding can establish or release            13 Fortitude save or be paralyzed
                                                         suction as a swift action, and, as long           for 1d4 rounds. The cube can
                                                         as it is using suction, it moves at half          automatically engulf a paralyzed
                                                         speed. This Tiny black pudding’s CMD              opponent of size Tiny or smaller. The
                                                         score gets a +10 circumstance bonus               save DC is Constitution-based.
                                                         to resist bull rush, awesome blows, and         Transparent (Ex) Due to its lack
                                                         other attacks and effects that attempt            of coloration, a gelatinous cube
                                                         to physically move it from its location.          is difficult to discern. A DC 15
                                                                                                           Perception check is required to
                                                                                                           notice a motionless Tiny gelatinous
                                                        GELATINOUS CUBE FAMILIAR            CR 1/3         cube. Any creature that fails to notice
                                                       XP 135                                              a Tiny gelatinous cube and walks
                                                       N Tiny ooze                                         into it suffers damage as if stuck
                                                       Init +0; Senses: blindsight 60 ft.,                 by the cube’s slam attack and is
                                                         perception -5                                     immediately subject to paralysis.
                                                       DEFENSE
                                                                                                          GRAy OOZE FAMILIAR               CR 1/3
                                                       AC 12, touch 12, flat-footed 12 (+2
                                                         size)                                           XP 135
                                                       hp 7 (1d8+3)                                      N Tiny ooze
                                                       Fort +3, Ref +0, Will -5                          Init -1; Senses blindsight 60 ft.,
                                                       Defensive Abilities ooze traits;                    perception -5
                                                         Immune electricity                              DEFENSE
                                                       OFFENSE                                           AC 11, touch 11, flat-footed 11 (-1 Dex,
                                                       Speed 15 ft.                                        +2 size)
                                                       Melee slam +0 (1d3-2 + 1d4 acid)                  hp 8 (1d8+4)


          22      Winter 2012
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
          Fort +4, Ref -1, Will -5                      strikes a Tiny gray ooze takes 1d4         Defensive Abilities ooze traits;
          Defensive Abilities ooze traits;              acid damage unless the weapon’s              Immune electricity, mind-affecting
            Immune cold, fire                           wielder succeeds on a DC 13 Reflex          effects, slashing and piercing
          OFFENSE                                       save. The Tiny gray ooze inflicts 8 hp      damage
          Melee slam +1 (1d3-1 plus1d4 acid and         acid damage per round to wooden            OFFENSE
            grab)                                       or metal objects, but the ooze must        Speed 10 ft., climb 10 ft.
          Space 2-½ ft.; Reach 0 ft.                    remain in contact with the material for    Melee slam +0 (1d3-2 +1d4 acid and
                                                        1 full round to deal this damage. The        grab)
          Special Attacks acid, constrict (Tiny or
                                                        save DCs are Constitution-based.           Space 2-½ ft.; Reach 0 ft.
            smaller only; 1d3-1 plus 1d4 acid)
                                                      Transparent (Ex) Due to its lack of vivid    Special Attacks acid, constrict (1d2
          STATISTICS
                                                        coloration, a gray ooze is difficult to      plus 1d4 acid)
          Str 8, Dex 9, Con 18, Int –, Wis 1, Cha 1     discern from its surroundings in most
          Base Atk +0; CMB -3 (+1 grapple);             environments. A DC 15 Perception
                                                                                                   STATISTICS
            CMD 7 (can’t be tripped)                    check is required to notice the Tiny       Str 6, Dex 11, Con 12, Int –, Wis 1, Cha 1
          SQ transparent                                gray ooze. Any creature that fails to      Base Atk +0; CMB -2 (+2 grapple);
          ECOLOGY                                       notice the Tiny gray ooze and walks          CMD 6 (can’t be tripped)
          Environment cold marshes and                  into it suffers damage as if stuck         Skills Climb +6
            underground                                 by the ooze’s slam attack and is           ECOLOGY
          Organization solitary                         immediately subject to a grab attempt      Environment temperate underground
          Treasure none                                 (applicable by size) by the ooze.            or marshes
          SPECIAL ABILITIES                                                                        Organization solitary
          Acid (Ex) The digestive acid that                                                        Treasure none
                                                       OCHRE JELLy FAMILIAR               CR 1/3
            covers a Tiny gray ooze dissolves                                                      SPECIAL ABILITIES
            metals and organic material but           XP 135                                       Acid (Ex) A Tiny ochre jelly secretes
            not stone. Each slam or constrict         N Tiny ooze                                    a digestive acid that dissolves only
            attack deals 1d4 additional hp acid       Init 0; Senses blindsight 60 ft.,             flesh (not bone) when it strikes a
            damage. Armor or clothing worn by           perception -5                               foe. Creatures not made of flesh
            a creature grappled by a Tiny gray        DEFENSE                                       (including most constructs and
            ooze take the same amount of acid         AC 12, touch 12, flat-footed 12 (0 Dex,       oozes, skeletal undead, plants, and
            damage unless the wearer succeeds           +2 size)                                    incorporeal creatures) are immune to
            on a DC 13 Reflex saving throw.           hp 5 (1d8+1)                                  the ochre jelly’s acid damage.        Ω
            A metal or wooden weapon that             Fort +1, Ref +0, Will -5




                                                                                                                Kobold Quarterly 20       23
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
       Servants from Beyond




    Servants
      fromBeyond


               Lesser Planar Allies that are Ready to Summon
          By Mario Podeschi
          Art by Jason Rainville & Storn Cook



                                                   T
          “My terms are generous. Just                       he lesser planar ally and          term “summoner” here does not refer
          as you will serve my ambition,                     lesser planar binding spells       to the Pathfinder RPG class, but to any
          so will I serve yours. When I                      are powerful tools that            spellcaster performing a summoning.
          perish—as surely I will, for I           most parties can access from level 7
          have no interest in the empty            onward. They are sexy, tremendously          Talunian Honor MounT
          promise of immortality—all my            versatile spells, and unlike most other      Though the knights who once rode these
          wealth shall pass to you. Behold.”       conjurations, they can bring forth an        beasts are long buried, these heavenly
          He lifted a handful of rubies.           ally for days rather than rounds. In         mounts still gallop through the planes and
          “This is just the beginning of           practice, however, these spells are rarely   await the call to noble service once more.
          your inheritance.”                       cast. Their component cost limit their
                                                   use, and when the party finally sees         These majestic pegasi, clad in ancient
          The small fire mephit eyed the           a big fight coming, there just aren’t        mithral armor, are eager to carry righteous
          rubies greedily. So greedily, in fact,   many outsiders with 6 or fewer HD to         warriors into battle against the forces
          that he did not notice Kaliskaria’s      summon, especially good-aligned ones.        of evil. They refuse any bridle or chain,
          clawed hands until they settled            This article presents four ready-          and they take great offense at being
          firmly on his shoulders. With            to-play, low-HD outsiders with               summoned into magic circles. These
          one powerful shove, the female           unique goals, personalities, prices,         celestial mounts desire only to serve a
          creature shoved her counterpart          and powers. Before each stat block,          group of heroes as worthy as the knights
          back into the portal.                    the “Negotiation Mechanics” section          who once rode them—a fact good-aligned
                                                   explains what skills and payments            clerics often share among themselves.
          “I accept,” she said, settling her       characters need to coax one of these           Negotiating with the honor mounts
          wings upon her shoulders.                lesser planar allies into service. The       to accept proposed service requires


          26      Winter 2012
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
                                                      hp 34 (4d10+12)
          fluency in Celestial, but successfully      Fort +7, Ref +6, Will +4
          conversing with them entails either         Resist acid 5, cold 5, electricity 5; SR
          telepathy or a speak with animals spell,      8
          as the mounts can only communicate          OFFENSE
          in terms of snorts and hoof stomps.         Speed 60 ft., fly 120 ft. (average)
                                                      Melee bite +7 (1d3+4), 2 hooves +2
                                                        (1d6+2)
          negotiation meChaniCs                       Space 10 ft.; Reach 5 ft.
           • Communication Difficulties:              Special Attacks smite evil 1/day (+1 to
              A summoner who cannot speak               hit/+4 to damage)
              Celestial suffers a -10 penalty         Spell-Like Abilities (CL 4th)
              to Diplomacy checks. Speaking           Constant—detect evil (60-ft.
              the native language of a good-            radius), detect good (60-ft. radius)
                                                      TACTICS
              aligned outer plane negates the         Talunian honor mounts serve their
              penalty but does not bridge the           riders faithfully and intelligently,
              language gap. A tongues spell             pulling them back to their allies if
              allows the mount to understand            they fall in battle. If their rider is slain
                                                        or the mount is otherwise turned
                                                                                                          Your source for unique
              the caster, but the mount still           loose, it flies 60 feet above the battle,       adventures and accessories
              cannot speak, and the spell does          uses flyby attacks on evil-aligned               for your 4E Dungeons &
              not translate the mount’s snorts.         creatures, and maintains a constant              Dragons and Pathfinder
              Communicating telepathically or           distance from its opponents.
                                                                                                           Roleplaying Games.
                                                      STATISTICS
              reading an honor mount’s mind                                                             Available in both PDF and
                                                      Str 18, Dex 15, Con 16, Int 10, Wis 13,
              grants a +4 to Diplomacy checks.          Cha 13                                            Print on Demand from
              A speak with animals spell allows       Base Atk +4; CMB +9; CMD 21 (25 vs.                  DriveThruRPG.com
              the mount to communicate with             trip)
              the caster, however.                    Feats Flyby Attack, Iron Will
           • Unbridled and Unchained:                 Skills Fly +5, Perception +11, Sense             www.BlackbyrnePublishing.com
                                                        Motive +7; Racial Modifiers +4
              Summoners receive a cumulative            Perception
              -2 to Diplomacy for every device        Languages Celestial (cannot speak)
              they use to restrict the honor          Equipment Mithral chain shirt barding,
              mount’s freedom or mobility—              riding saddle, saddlebags
              bridles, chains, magic circles, etc.    ECOLOGY

           • Payment by Charity: The                  Environment any (Elysium)
                                                      Organization solitary, pair, or herd (6-10)
              honor mount expects to see its
                                                      Treasure none
              summoner’s charitable donations
              firsthand. Generous spellcasting
              (such as casting remove disease for     KalisKaria
              free) also satisfies them, granting     Just remember that I’m the favorite slave.
              a 10 gp discount per spell level.
           • Minor Task (DC 18 Diplomacy              Kaliskaria has one goal in life: to
              check, 300 gp donation)                 become the slave wife of an efreeti
           • Major Task (DC 23 Diplomacy              sultan named Mumbar. She is already
              check, 3,000 gp donation)               betrothed to him, but he will not accept
           • Grand Task (DC 28 Diplomacy              her into his harem until she assembles
              check, 30,000 gp donation)              a dowry of 100,000 golden coins.
                                                      Unsettlingly enthusiastic in the pursuit
           TALUNIAN HONOR MOUNT              CR 3     of her own slavery, she cannot wait to
             (CELESTIAL PEGASUS)                      join the other 91 slave wives and engage
          XP 800                                      in a few thousand years of scheming,
          CG Large Magical Beast                      plotting, and fiery seduction.
          Init +2; Senses darkvision 60 ft., detect     Kaliskaria would make an ideal
            evil, detect good, low-light vision;      servant if she were not incorrigibly
            scent; Perception +11
          DEFENSE
                                                      jealous and arrogant. She considers her
          AC 18, touch 11, flat-footed 16 (+4         summoner a being of absolute power,
           mithral chain shirt barding, +2 Dex,       herself the summoner’s “favorite slave,”
           +3 natural, -1 size)                       and any PC allies lazy and expendable


                                                                                                              Kobold Quarterly 20    27
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
       Servants from Beyond


                                                                                                  administer a swift coup de grace
          slaves who need to learn their places.          check, 100 gp)                          with her scythe. Otherwise, she
                                                     •    Major Task (DC 24 Diplomacy             moves slowly into battle, switching
          negotiation meChaniCs                           check, 500 gp/month)                    from scorching ray to her breath
           • Strictly Business: PCs                  •    Grand Task (DC 29 Diplomacy             weapon to melee. When injured, she
                                                                                                  retreats to a fire source to trigger her
              succeeding on a DC 15 Appraise              check, special): For some               fast healing; if no fire sources are at
              check while preparing to cast               vast but negotiable sum—an              hand, she uses heat metal on her
              the spell demonstrate their                 adventurer’s share of treasure,         iron necklace.
              knowledge of the value of a                 a noble’s inheritance, a wish         STATISTICS

              gold piece and quickly earn                 spell—Kaliskaria will serve for       Str 17, Dex 19, Con 16, Int 10, Wis 15,
                                                                                                  Cha 18
              Kaliskaria’s respect, granting a +2         a longer period, up to an entire      Base Atk +3; CMB +5; CMD 19
              to Diplomacy checks.                        human lifetime.                       Feats Dodge, Weapon Focus (scythe)
           • Warm Welcome: PCs can make                                                         Skills Appraise +6, Bluff +10, Fly +12,
              a DC 10 Knowledge (arcana)             kALISkARIA                          CR 4     Perception +8, Stealth +14
              check to know that a hot fire is a      (ADVANCED FIRE MEPHIT)                    Languages Common, Ignan
              sign of goodwill, thereby gaining                                                 Equipment +1 scythe, iron necklace
                                                    XP 1,200
                                                                                                SPECIAL ABILITIES
              a +1 to Diplomacy checks in the       N Small outsider (fire)
                                                                                                Breath Weapon (Su) The fire mephit
              presence of a campfire or larger      Init +6; Senses darkvision 60 ft.;            can release a fiery breath weapon
              flame.                                  Perception +6                               every four rounds as a standard
                                                    DEFENSE                                       action. The DC is Constitution-based
           • Money Talks (50 gp): Money
                                                    AC 21, touch 16, flat-footed 16 (+4           and includes a +1 racial bonus.
              catches Kaliskaria’s attention,         Dex, +1 dodge, +5 natural, +1 size)
              granting a +2 to Diplomacy            hp 25 (3d10+9); fast healing 2 (while
              checks.                                 touching fire)                            endrian’s shade
           • Minor Task (DC 19 Diplomacy            Fort +4, Ref +7, Will +5                    Perhaps at your side I will at last find peace.
                                                    DR 5/magic; Immune fire
                                                    Weaknesses vulnerability to cold
                                                                                                Fifty years ago, the paladin Endrian
                                                     OFFENSE
                                                      Speed 30 ft., fly 40 ft. (average)        died so far from his home plane that
                                                      Melee small +1 scythe +8 (1d6+4) or       his gods could not find him. His
                                                           2 claws +6 (1d3+3)                   soul has since wandered the planes
                                                             Special Attacks breath             unable to find his way to a more
                                                             weapon (15-ft. cone, 1d8           palatable eternity. As part of his
                                                              fire, DC 15 half, every 4
                                                              rounds)                           ongoing quest to discover a means
                                                             Spell-Like Abilities (CL 6th)      to return to his god’s side, he has
                                                         1/hour—scorching ray                   begun answering the summonses
                                                         1/day—heat metal (DC 16),              of spellcasters, offering his unusual
                                                           summon (level 2, 1 fire mephit       abilities in exchange for advice and
                                                           25%)
                                                                                                magical research. Typical payments
                                                               TACTICS
                                                                Kaliskaria encourages           involve casting spells like divination,
                                                                her summoner to prepare         scrying, and commune or high-DC
                                                                spells like sleep and hold      Knowledge (arcane) and Knowledge
                                                                person, allowing her to         (history) checks.
                                                                                                  Endrian only takes a willing, fully
                                                                                                informed volunteer as his vessel. He
                                                                                                refuses more tasks than he accepts
                                                                                                because he believes his receptacle
                                                                                                unwilling rather than because the
                                                                                                request violates his ethos. He refuses
                                                                                                charmed monsters, unintelligent beasts,
                                                                                                and prisoners condemned to death.
                                                                                                Only strict adherence to these criteria
                                                                                                lets him use his possession abilities
                                                                                                without violating his paladin’s code.
                                                                                                  If a deal is struck, Endrian’s shade
                                                                                                uses his vessel and his paladin abilities
                                                                                                to aid his summoner faithfully until
                                                                                                completion of his contract. He


          28      Winter 2012
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
                        Beginner Box




                  The Adventure Begins!
    Designed specifically for beginning
                                         players and packed with must-
    have accessories like dice, monster
                                        counters, and a slimmed-down,
    easy-to-understand rules set, the Pat
                                         hfinder RPG Beginner Box gives
    you everything you need to set out
                                        on countless quests in a fantastic
    world beset by magic and evil!

    AVAILABLE NOW! • $34.99 • PZO111
                                    9 • ISBN                           978-1-60125-372-9


                     PAIZO.COM/BEGINNERBOX
                     Paizo Publishing, LLC, the Paizo golem logo, and Pathﬁnder are registered trademarks
                     of Paizo Publishing, LLC, and the Pathﬁnder Roleplaying Game is a trademark of
                     Paizo Publishing, LLC. © 2011 Paizo Publishing, LLC.
                                                                                                                      Photo by Carlos Paradinha, Jr.

                                                                                                            Kobold Quarterly 20         29
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
                                 willingly steps aside if his vessel wishes         his allies to provide knowledge
                                 to act independently.                              valuable enough to waive the
                                                                                    cost of a single divination spell.
                                 negotiation MeChaniCs                         •    Minor Task (DC 21 Diplomacy
                                  • Kindred Spirits: Like many                      check and 21 auguries)
                                     paladins, Endrian’s shade opens           •    Major Task (DC 26 Diplomacy
                                     negotiations with detect evil.                 check and 21 divinations)
                                     If he finds no evil auras, the            •    Grand Task (DC 31 Diplomacy
                                     summoner receives a +2 bonus to                check and 21 communes)
                                     all Diplomacy checks.
                                  • False Confidence: Summoners                ENDRIAN’S SHADE                  CR 6
                                     who convince Endrian’s shade—                  XP 2,400
                                     by making a Bluff check opposed                   Human ghost paladin 5
                                     by Endarian’s Sense Motive—                        LG Medium undead
                                                                                        (augmented humanoid,
                                     that they will guide him to
                                                                                         extraplanar, incorporeal,
                                     his god gain a +4 bonus to all                      outsider)
                                     Diplomacy checks.                                   Init +1; Senses darkvision
                                  • Just Cause: Causes in line with                      60 ft., detect evil;
                                     Endrian’s paladin ethos grant a                     Perception +9
                                                                                         Aura good (5 ft.), courage
                                     +2 bonus to Diplomacy checks.                       (10 ft.)
                                  • Knowledge At Hand: A DC 30                             DEFENSE
                                     Knowledge (religion, arcana, or                      AC 18, touch 18, flat-footed
                                     planes) check allows a caller or                     16 (+1 Dex, +1 dodge, +6
                                                                                          deflection)
                                                                                          hp 62 (5d10+35)




                                                                                            Fort +16, Ref +7, Will +12
                                                                                            Defensive Abilities
                                                                                           channel resistance +4,
                                                                                          incorporeal, rejuvenation,
                                                                                          divine grace +6; Immune
                                                                                          disease, undead traits
                                                                                          OFFENSE
                                                                              Speed fly 30 ft. (perfect)
                                                                              Melee corrupting touch +5 (6d6, Fort.
                                                                                DC 18 half (violates paladin’s code))
                                                                              Special Attacks malevolence (as
                                                                                magic jar CL 10, DC 18), smite evil
                                                                                2/day (+6 to hit/+5 to damage, +6
                                                                                deflection bonus to AC)
                                                                              Spell-Like Abilities (CL 5th)
                                                                              At-will—detect evil
                                                                              Spells Prepared (CL 2nd concentration +8)
                                                                              1st—lesser restoration, protection from
                                                                                evil
                                                                                TACTICS
                                                                               Endrian wades into battle with all
                                                                                 the ferocity of a typical paladin
                                                                                  and looks after his vessel’s body
                                                                                  as if it were his own. He heals
                                                                                 himself and his allies when injured,
                                                                               smites evil foes, and relies on his
                                                                               high defenses to see him through.
                                                                               If Endrian’s host is slain, his shade
                                                                               rises from the body and continues
                                                                               to heal his allies. He never willingly
                                                                                 uses his corrupting touch ability,
                                                                                  as doing so is a direct violation of
                                                                                   his oaths.


          30      Winter 2012
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
                                 Kobold Quarterly 20   31
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
                                                                     STATISTICS
                                                                                                                    •    Divination Spells: Summoners
         Kingdoms of Legend
                                                                TM

                                                                     Str –, Dex 13, Con -, Int 11, Wis 12,
                                                                       Cha 22                                            gain a +1 to their Linguistics
          A high-fantasy campaign setting for the                    Base Atk +5; CMB +5; CMD 16                         checks for every level of divination
          Pathfinder Roleplaying Game, set in an                     Feats Dodge, Mobility, Iron Will,                   spell of relevance cast toward
          alternate history Earth.                                     Spring Attack                                     deciphering Deucalion’s riddles.
                                                                     Skills Diplomacy +14, Fly +9, Heal +5,
          www.interactionpoint.com                                     Knowledge (nobility) +6, Knowledge                Relevant divinations only include
                                                                       (religion) +6, Perception +9, Sense               spells with material components
                                                                       Motive +9, Stealth +9; Racial                     such as augury, divination,
                                                                       Modifier +8 Perception, +8 Stealth                commune, or contact other plane.
                                                                     Languages Common, Elven
                                                                     SQ channel positive energy, divine
                                                                       bond (weapon), divine grace, divine          DEUCALION (UNIqUE ANGEL)          CR 5
                                                                       health, lay on hands (2d6, DC 18,           XP 1,600
                                                                       removes fatigue, 9/day)                     NG Medium outsider (angel,
                                                                     Equipment none                                  extraplanar, good)
                                                                                                                   Init +6; Senses darkvision 60 ft., detect
                                                                                                                     evil, detect magic, low-light vision;
                                                                     deuCalion,                                      Perception +13
                                                                      the Celestial guide                          Aura protective (20 ft.; as +4 saves, as
                                                                     I have seen. Now, you are taking my             magic circle vs. evil and lesser globe
                                                                     hand so that you will have seen into the        of invulnerability, CL 6)
                                                                                                                   DEFENSE
                                                                     future’s yesterday.
                                                                                                                   AC 17, touch 12, flat-footed 15 (+4
                                                                                                                     armor, +2 Dex, +1 natural) (+4
                                                                     Deucalion is an angel of prophecy, an           deflection vs. evil)
                                                                     ancient fountain of knowledge whose           hp 45 (6d10+12)
                                                                     strange dialect suggests that he may          Fort +7 (+11 vs. poison), Ref +4, Will +9
                                                                     be walking backwards through time,            DR 5/cold iron or evil; Immune acid,
          ©Interaction Point Games, LLC. Pathfinder and associated
                                                                                                                     cold, petrification; Resist electricity
          marks and logos are trademarks of Paizo Publishing, LLC,   reporting on that which has already come        10, fire 10
          and are used under license. See paizo.com/pathfinderRPG
          for more information on the Pathfinder Roleplaying Game.   to pass. Listening to him is maddening,       OFFENSE
                                                                     as his seemingly random verb tenses           Speed 30 ft.; fly 40 ft. (clumsy)
                                                                     make it impossible to tell if he is talking   Melee staff +8/+3 1d6+3
                                                                     about that which was, that which is, or       Spell-Like Abilities (CL 4; +6
                                                                     something even more complicated.                concentration)
                                                                                                                   Constant—detect evil, detect magic
                                                                       He appears as an owl-headed old
                                                                                                                   At-Will—stabilize
                                                                     man clad in brown robes and carrying          3/day—augury, locate object
                                                                     a simple wooden quarterstaff. It              1/day—divination, plane shift
                                                                     takes either a mad genius or a master         1/week—find the path
                                                                     linguist to successfully converse             TACTICS
                                                                     with Deucalion; though the being              Deucalion stays close to his allies,
                                                                     technically works for free, many would-        maximizing the effect of his
                                                                                                                    protective aura and using stabilize
                                                                     be summoners invest thousands of gold          on any who fall. If losing a battle,
                                                                     on divinations and sages before actually       Deucalion will plane shift away and
                                                                     being able to make their request. When         quickly return to his summoner with
                                                                     the task is sealed, Deucalion continues        the help of his divinations.
                                                                                                                   STATISTICS
                                                                     to ramble while pointing a crooked
                                                                                                                   Str 14, Dex 14, Con 14, Int 18, Wis 18,
                                                                     finger in the direction he has divined.         Cha 10
                                                                                                                   Base Atk +6, CMB +8; CMD 20
                                                                     negotiation MeChaniCs                         Feats Alertness, Eschew Materials,
                                                                      • Backward Diplomacy:                          Improved Initiative
                                                                         Deucalion agrees to guide a               Skills (-2 armor check): Bluff +9, Fly
                                                                                                                     -2, Knowledge (arcana, geography,
                                                                         person to any one location,                 nature, religion, planes) +13,
                                                                         and protect them en route,                  Linguistics +13, Perception +13,
                                                                         free of charge if they can ask              Sense Motive +13
                                                                         him in a manner resonating                Languages Abyssal, Aklo, Aquan, Auran,
                                                                                                                     Celestial, Common, Draconic, Ignan,
                                                                         with his bizarre perspective.               Infernal, Sylvan, Terran, truespeech
                                                                         Doing so requires a DC 30                 Equipment chain shirt, quarterstaff,
                                                                         Linguistics check.                          augury focus, satchel with 150 gp in
                                                                                                                     divination incense                   Ω

          32       Winter 2012
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
                                  TM
                                                                                                                   TM




      presenTs                                                                              — CAMPAIGN SETTING —




  Zobeck
                                 WElCoME To




            keep Your Head.
            WatcH Your back.
            Look out beLoW.




                                        The Zobeck Gazetteer brings the clockwork
                                        heart of the Midgard campaign setting to life for
                                        the Pathfinder Roleplaying Game.
                                        Zobeck is the city where kobolds toil and ghouls
                                        lurk, where gearforged soldiers keep the peace,
                                        and where the Gear Goddess watches over all:
                                           • New domains of Clockwork and Lust
                                           • Secrets of the Arcane Collegium
                                           • The Free City’s sinister street gangs
                                           • Mysteries of the gods revealed!
                                        Drawn from 5 years of Kobold Quarterly
                                        magazine, this expanded sourcebook includes
                                        100 pages of spells, characters, and adventure!




   Buy it at your local game shop or koboldquarterly.com!
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
       Night Terrors




          N ight t errors
               Four Creatures to Truly Terrify
          By Jack Graham
          Art by Katy Hargrove and Rick Hershey
                                                         hp 42 (5d8+20)


          C
                ivilization has long striven to                                                   which, like cuckoos, use other
                                                         Fort +8, Ref -3, Will +4
                drive fell beasts and old secrets        Immune mind-affecting effects            species to raise their young. A
                beyond its borders and into              OFFENSE                                  changeling moth chrysalis is 2 ft. to
          the wild places of the world, but it           Speed 0 ft.                              4 ft. long (depending on its stage of
          has not wholly succeeded. Some evils           Space 5 ft.; Reach 0 ft.                 metamorphosis) and weighs 30 to
          lurk on the borderlands and slip in            Spell-like Abilities (CL 5th):           80 pounds.
          by night or shadow to prey upon the            3/day—mass charm monster (DC 16)           Although non-intelligent, a
                                                         STATISTICS
          unsuspecting. Presented below are four                                                  changeling moth chrysalis can use its
                                                         Str 2, Dex 2, Con 18, Int —, Wis 16,
          such creatures to challenge low- to              Cha 10                                 mass charm monster spell-like ability
          mid-level adventurers, each with an            Base Atk +0; CMD -9 (can’t be tripped)   to make affected creatures treat the
          usual ability or lifecycle to befuddle or      Feats Combat Casting, Spell              chrysalis as a baby of the creatures’
          horrify players.                                 Penetration                            own kind. Humanoids and other
                                                         Skills Perception +12; Racial Modifier   creatures that care for their young
                                                           +4 Perception when using blindsense
           CHANGELING MOTH CHRySALIS CR 4                ECOLOGY
                                                                                                  will adopt the chrysalis and give it
          Filling the baby’s cradle is a huge, bloated   Environment temperate forest             shelter, sometimes neglecting any
          moth chrysalis that wriggles its lower         Organization solitary, clutch (3-6),     real children in the process. PCs
          half and probes the air with its proboscis.      infestation (10-100)                   are entitled to a DC 16 Will saving
                                                         Treasure incidental                      throw to avoid this effect.
          XP 1,200
          N Small vermin
                                                         Changeling moths are largely               Worse, the chrysalis feeds
          Init -4, Senses blindsense 60 ft.;             harmless in their adult and larval       voraciously as it grows, grasping with
            Perception +13                               stages (aside from the caterpillars      its proboscis at any food put near
          DEFENSE                                        being voracious crop pests). In          it. Individual chrysalises can’t do
          AC 15, touch 7, flat-footed 15 (+8             their pupal stage, however, they         much damage, but a plague of these
           natural, -4 Dex, +1 size)
                                                         are extremely dangerous parasites,       vermin can reduce an entire village to


          34      Winter 2012
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
                                                      Weakness vulnerability to cold               is slain, all the remaining mole
          gathering food for their “babies.”          OFFENSE                                      rats become passive in 1d6
            Changeling moth chrysalises are           Speed 30 ft., burrow 5 ft.                   rounds. They defend themselves
          immobile and fairly easily dispatched       Melee bite +1 (1d4 plus grab if              if attacked, but they otherwise
          despite their hard chitin. Their              opponent is flanked)                       flee for 1d12 days, by which
                                                      Special Attacks hive tactics                 point one of the females will have
          charmed caretakers defend them to                                                        established dominance, becoming
          the death, even turning on allies to        STATISTICS
                                                                                                   the new queen.
                                                      Str 10, Dex 12, Con 10, Int 1, Wis 12,
          protect the chrysalises. Encountering         Cha 10
          two enemy creatures cooperating             Base Atk +0; CMB -1 (+3 grapple),          Common naked mole rats burrow
          to gather food may be a sign that             CMD 10 (+14 vs. trip)                    beneath tropical savannahs and,
          changeling moths have spawned in an         Feats Weapon Finesse                       while strange to look upon, are
          area. Conversely, otherwise-friendly        Skills Perception +9, Stealth +5; Racial   harmless vegetarians. Their larger kin,
          creatures may demand travelers hand           Modifier +4 to Perception when using     however, are voracious omnivores
                                                        blindsight
          over food for their “baby” and attack       SQ hive organization                       that occasionally swarm from their
          those who refuse.                           ECOLOGY                                    warrens to attack livestock and
            The changeling moth’s chrysalis           Environment warm plains                    even people to satisfy their hunger.
          phase is mercifully short, lasting only     Organization foragers (2-8) or warren      They’re particularly dangerous during
          3d6 days. On the final day, the adult         (15-40)                                  droughts or other situations when
          moth emerges from its chrysalis,            Treasure incidental                        food is scarce.
                                                      SPECIAL ABILITIES
          and the mass charm effect fades in          Hive Tactics (Ex) If two or more
                                                                                                   Mole rats are physiologically
          1d3 hours. Slaves of the chrysalis            mole rats flank an enemy, on a           mammals, but they behave like hive
          who don’t exhaust their food supply           successful bite attack, any of them      insects. Most warren mole rats are
          feeding the chrysalis may well survive.       may initiate a grapple as if they had    neuter workers that feed and protect
                                                        the grab ability, ignoring the usual
          The adult moth soon produces more             size restrictions. If successful, all
                                                                                                 their queen and her immature pups.
          caterpillars, and the whole cycle             mole rats flanking the target are        Their warrens sprawl over wide
          begins anew.                                  considered part of the grapple and       areas with multiple levels and many
            Adult Changeling Moth (CR 0)                may make CMB checks to deal              chambers devoted to food storage,
                                                        damage as a standard action. If the
          Adult moths are size Medium, have             target breaks the grapple against
                                                                                                 raising young, and defecating—
          AC 12, 6 hp, Speed 10 ft., fly 50 ft.         one flanking mole rat, it breaks the     much like an insect colony. Warrens
          (average), and have no attacks.               grapple against all of them.             rarely run deeper than 100 ft. below
            Changeling Moth Caterpillar (CR 0)        Hive Organization (Ex) Mole rats           ground, as most of their food comes
          Caterpillars are size Tiny, have AC 12, 2     identify one another by scent and        from the surface or just beneath it.
                                                        rapidly swarm when intruders
          hp, Speed 5 ft., Climb 5 ft. (cannot be       invade their warrens. However,           When not foraging or tending young,
          tripped), and have no attacks.                if the queen of a mole rat warren        workers expand their tunnel system,
            Adventure Hook: A young boy begs
          the approaching party for food on the
          outskirts of what looks like a
          prosperous farming village. If asked
          about the village’s conditions, he
          replies they haven’t had enough
          food to go around since the
          “new baby” arrived.

           NAkED MOLE RAT, DIRE            CR 1/3
          This earless, eyeless rodent has pallid,
          deeply wrinkled flesh and a wicked set
          of incisors.
          XP 135
          N Small animal
          Init +1, Senses blindsight 60 ft., scent,
            tremorsense 60 ft.; Perception +9
          DEFENSE
          AC 13, touch 12, flat-footed 12 (+1
            Dex, +1 natural, +1 size)
          hp 4 (1d8)
          Fort +3, Ref +3, Will +1
          Defensive Abilities ferocity


                                                                                                             Kobold Quarterly 20     35
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
                                                      ECOLOGY
          which sometimes leads to clashes            Environment Any                               or a series of successful cure saves
          with other subterranean species.            Organization solitary or cyst (3-12)          kills the growing head, causing it to
            Mole rats show a single-minded            Treasure NPC gear (chain shirt)               rapidly shrivel and fall off. Once the
          viciousness when guarding their queen.      SPECIAL ABILITIES                             head assumes control, though, the
          They surround enemies and bear them         Inject Spawn (Ex) The cephalic                only way to save the person is to deal
                                                        parasite’s host develops a sharp,
          to the ground before biting them              snaky, abdominal ovipositor that
                                                                                                    enough nonlethal damage to take
          repeatedly. Mole rats’ wrinkled hides are     can strike at creatures in the same         down the body and then sever the
          curiously insensitive to pain, allowing       square. Humanoid or monstrous               parasitic head. Severing the head takes
          them to fight on despite terrible             humanoid targets struck by the              3 rounds and deals 1d8 hp damage
                                                        ovipositor must make a DC 14 Fort
          wounds. Unlike other mammals, they            save. Failure indicates the parasite
                                                                                                    to the host each round. Spellcasters
          lack the ability to regulate their body       has injected one of its young into          attempting to keep the host alive
          temperature efficiently, so they are          the victim, afflicting it with a cephalic   with healing magic must make a DC
          vulnerable to cold attacks.                   parasite infestation.                       10 Heal check to avoid accidentally
            Breeding Males (+1 CR) A warren           Cephalic Parasite Infestation (Ex)            healing the parasite (and then having
                                                        Disease—ovipositor; save Fort
          also contains 1d4 breeding males with         DC 14, onset 1 day, frequency 1/            to start the whole gruesome process
          the advanced template.                        day for 1d12 days, effect 1d3 Cha           over again).
            Queen (+1 CR) A warren contains             damage and second head growth,                Adventure Hook: An outlying
          one queen with the giant template.            cure two consecutive saves. If the          market town has recently been by
                                                        victim reaches 0 Cha or 1d12 days
            Adventure Hook: An outlying                 elapse without the victim succeeding        slavers from a normally peaceful tribe
          hamlet complains of wrinkled beasts           on two Fort saves, the second head          dwelling in the nearby wilderness. The
          attacking at night, dragging livestock        assumes control of the body from the        raiders seem to fight halfheartedly,
          into their underground burrows. Are           victim’s neck down.                         though, and a dying raider’s ravings
          they simply hungry animals, or has          Thought to be mutated cousins of              about “the chieftain’s goiter” only add
          some force stirred them to attack?          doppelgangers, cephalic parasites             to the mystery.
                                                      reproduce by depositing their young
           CEPHALIC PARASITE                 CR 3     within humanoids and monstrous                 PISHTACO                            CR 6
          This unfortunate person’s eyes and mouth    humanoids. As they mature, these              This haggard man has a skin tone and
          have been sewn shut, but sprouting from     new parasites sprout from their hosts         overall look very different from the people
          the neck is a stubby, gray-complexioned     as malicious, rough-featured second           of these mountains, and his tattered
          second head, its rudimentary features       heads. Once in control, cephalic              alchemist’s coat is of an antique cut.
          twisted in an evil leer.                    parasites are cruel and hedonistic,
                                                                                                    XP 2,400
                                                      dividing their time between enjoying          CE Medium undead
          XP 800
          CE Medium aberration
                                                      whatever depraved pleasures their             Init +3, Senses darkvision 60 ft.;
          Init +1, Senses darkvision 60 ft., low-     bodies afford them and attempting to            Perception +10
            light vision; Perception +10              infest more hosts. Cephalic parasites         DEFENSE
          Aura frightful presence (DC 13, 60 ft.)     occasionally target a community’s             AC 20, touch 15, flat-footed 17 (+2
                                                                                                      deflection, +4 natural, +1 shield, +3
          DEFENSE                                     elite and then demand obeisance
          AC 15, touch 11, flat-footed 14 (+1 Dex,                                                    Dex)
                                                      from the rest, keeping their new              hp 76 (9d8+36)
            +4 armor)
          hp 30 (4d8+12)
                                                      chattel in line with the threat of            Fort +7, Ref +6, Will +7
          Fort +4, Ref +2, Will +5                    being made into hosts.                        Defensive Abilities channel resistance
          OFFENSE                                       An afflicted person develops a                +2; DR 5/slashing and magic;
                                                      small lump on the neck or shoulder,             evasion (Ex), Immune undead traits;
          Speed 30 ft.
                                                                                                      Resist cold 10
          Melee 1 slam +4 (1d8+1), 1 ovipositor       which rapidly grows into a second             OFFENSE
            +4 (1d4+2 plus inject spawn)              head. The new head is sentient and
          Special Attacks inject spawn                                                              Speed 30 ft.
                                                      takes control of the body, leaving the        Melee two +1 short swords +8/+8
          STATISTICS
                                                      original head a helpless organ of the           (1d6+1/19-20)
          Str 12, Dex 13, Con 16, Int 14, Wis 12,
                                                      parasite. Usually the parasitic head          Space 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.
            Cha 12
                                                      will sew shut the original’s eyes and         Special Attacks sneak attack (+5d6)
          Base Atk +3; CMB +4 (+6 grapple),
            CMD 15 (+17 vs. grapple)                                                                Spell-like Abilities (CL 9th)
                                                      mouth to prevent unwanted visual
          Feats Improved Grapple, Weapon                                                            3/day—disguise self, sleep (DC 15)
                                                      feedback, wailing, biting, and the like.      1/day—deep slumber (DC 17),
            Focus (ovipositor)
          Skills Escape Artist +7, Intimidate +10,
                                                      It never kills its host, however, as it         obscuring mist, suggestion (DC 16)
            Knowledge (dungeoneering) +10,            can neither hear nor control the body’s       STATISTICS
            Perception +10, Stealth +8                autonomous processes on its own.              Str 10, Dex 16, Con —, Int 14, Wis 12,
          Languages Aklo, Common,                       Before a cephalic parasite infestation        Cha 18
            Undercommon                                                                             Base Atk +6; CMB + 6, CMD 19
                                                      runs its course, a remove disease spell
                                                                                                    Feats Deceitful, Nimble Moves, Two-


          36      Winter 2012
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
            Weapon Defense, Two-Weapon
            Fighting, Weapon Finesse                 If lairing in a settled area, though,
          Skills Bluff +13, Craft (Alchemy,          pishtacos prey exclusively
            Cooking, or Gunsmithing) +7,             on the locals unless they become
            Disguise +12, Knowledge (arcane)         truly desperate.
            +14, Knowledge (religions) +14,
            Perception +10, Sense Motive +9,
                                                       Pishtacos have no interest in
            Spellcraft +11, Stealth +12              fighting and avoid open combat,
          SQ false wholesomeness, mountebank         preferring to skulk in the shadows or
            potions                                  hide behind hired human minions.
          ECOLOGY                                    If cornered, they fight viciously,
          Environment cold mountains                 expecting no quarter.
          Organization solitary
          Treasure NPC gear (ring of protection
                                                       Pishtaco Alchemist: Some
            +2, two +1 short swords)                 powerful and well-studied
          SPECIAL ABILITIES                          pishtacos actually have alchemist
          False Wholesomeness (Su) A                 class levels in addition to their
            pishtaco that has fed on human           usual pishtaco powers. The
            fat within the last week does not
            register when in the area of effect of
                                                     ingredients for their infusions,
            detect evil or detect undead spells.     however, are of questionable
          Mountebank Potions (Su) Pishtacos          provenance.
            seek to blend in, portraying               Pishtaco Gunslinger: Other
            themselves as food sellers or            pishtacos may have gunslinger
            physicians. In the former guise,
            they sell greasy, delicious street       class levels. Where such pishtacos
            food. In the latter, they peddle         appear, natives will be highly
            false healing potions made from          suspicious of gunslingers or
            rendered human fat. These oily           any character skilled with
            brews appear to all inspection as
            potions of cure light wounds or cure     mechanical devices, for they
            moderate wounds, but the hit points
            they grant are temporary, lasting
            only 1d12 hours.
          The unquiet souls of conquerors
          who commit atrocities against              believe (correctly)
          native people sometimes give rise to       that gunslinger
          pishtacos, undead who spirit away          pishtacos maintain
          locals and butcher them for their          their weapons with oil rendered
          organs and fat.                            from human fat.
            Pishtacos appear in mountainous            Adventure Hook: PCs are
          regions where the indigenous people        called upon to investigate a
          value body fat as a sign of health and     series of grisly murders in a
          vitality. Perhaps the beliefs of the       small mountain village. The
          locals give shape to their fears, or       indigenous people, however,
          perhaps the perverse cruelty of the        are curiously unwilling
          pishtacos themselves gives impetus         to cooperate with the
          to their acts of butchery. Whatever        investigation, and sometimes
          the case, fear of them makes locals        are openly hostile, especially
          in regions where they hunt very            if the party includes
          suspicious of outlanders.                  alchemists or gunslingers.
            Pishtacos appear in many guises,         Ω
          but they’re always gaunt and always
          appear as foreigners to the region in
          which they’re found. They may lair
          in the wilderness near indigenous
          settlements, but whenever possible,
          they attempt to blend in at
          caravansaries, trading posts, market
          towns, and other places where
          foreigners brush elbows with locals.


                                                                                             Kobold Quarterly 20   37
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
       Game Theories




          The Power of the Game Master
          by Monte Cook
          Art by Fred H . Ball




          W
                           hether you
                           call the
                           person at
          the head of your game
          table the Game Master,
          the Dungeon Master,
          the Storyteller, the
          Keeper, or anything else,
          it’s important to realize
          that it’s that person’s
          role in the game that
          represents the most
          striking difference between role playing     agenda was simply what was good for        events that concern the action of some
          games and other games. Sure, there are       the game.                                  grand storyline the PCs are expected to
          other differences too. But almost no           It’s the benevolent dictator idea, at    follow.
          other type of game has a role whose job      the scale of the kitchen table. Absolute
          it is to facilitate the game yet be a part   power is fine if it’s in the hands of      gm is a player
          of it. To referee the game, and still be a   someone who is absolutely invested           But some reject the idea of GM
          player. To know all the secrets, and yet     in the good of those beneath him or        supremacy. The GM, they argue, is just
          still be surprised.                          her. Or in the case of an RPG, those       another player at the table. The GM
                                                       playing the game. The idea, then, is       has a role to play, but then, so do all
          the gm is god                                that the GM provides the game in           the other players, and none is more
          Although there are many issues               the form of setting and story, and the     important than the other. In this view,
          involved with this unique role, I think      players take part in the game. The GM      the GM isn’t the storyteller—the group
          the most important issue with having a       is a host of the game world as well as     is the collective storyteller.
          GM in a game is how much power that          the authoritarian arbiter of the events      I think this comes as a natural
          person should have. When roleplaying         that transpire there. A good GM in this    reaction to the “GM is god” mentality,
          games were born, those writing and           role uses that power to ensure everyone    particularly among those who have
          playing the games almost immediately         has a great time, is empowered             had the misfortune to play in a game
          developed a “GM is god” mentality.           to do what they want within the            where that philosophy led to abuse.
          What the GM says, goes. His word is          context provided, and is thoroughly        Players can grow weary rather quickly
          law, and dictates the reality of the game    entertained.                               of someone else pronouncing dictums
          world.                                         One interesting thing to note is         regarding what they can and cannot
            The idea wasn’t some kind of power         that the adherents of the GM-isgod         do, and sometimes even how they
          trip—at least, that wasn’t the intention.    philosophy can be old-school hack          should or should not play.
          Instead, it was to institute a sort of       and slashers or they can be storytellers     Ways to diminish the GM’s power
          order. In a game played entirely within      interested only in creating a fantasy      almost always mean putting more
          the imaginations of the players, all         epic with their friends. They can be       power into the hands of the other
          stretching the bounds of the game            so-called “sandbox” GMs, giving PCs        players. This power usually takes a
          reality, someone has to say yes or no.       full reign to go wherever they wish in     narrative form. That is to say, the
          And that person needs to be the one          a pre-set world or they can be plotline-   players are able to contribute in larger
          without an agenda, or at least, whose        driven, creating only the places and       and larger ways to the events of the


          38      Winter 2012
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
          story, beyond just the actions of             and that one little thing changed the
          their character (over which they have         dynamic of the game.) It’s something
          complete control). Some games or              the rules rarely address.
          houserules include points, poker chips,          In most cases this issue depends less
          or special cards that the players can use     on game system and more on group
          to manipulate the game world or the           dynamics. Players must decide for
          events as they transpire in the game.         themselves how they want to come
          Others dispense with such mechanical          down on this issue. The decision
          formality and simply allow players to         needs to be made as a group, really.
          contribute to world building and plot         Sometimes it happens organically—
          control with the same “power” as the          it just sort of works itself out and
          GM. Such games might be thought of            everyone’s happy. Sometimes it requires
          as “everyone is the GM.”                      an actual discussion that involves
                                                        everyone.
          group dynamiCs                                   Most groups probably come down
            Like with so many things, there             somewhere in the middle of all of these
          lies a spectrum in between these two          issues. That middle being defined as:
          extremes. While designing 3rd edition
          Dungeons & Dragons, for example,               •    The rules are the framework
          Skip Williams, Jonathan Tweet, and                  everyone—GM and players—
          I wanted to keep the traditional                    uses as a baseline.
          paradigm of the GM being the in-               •    Players can contribute to the
          charge figurehead, but we wanted the                flow of events in the game and
          rules to be comprehensive enough to                 sometimes even the setting, as
          take some of the pressure off. Being                it pertains to their individual
          “god” can be difficult if you don’t have            characters.
          a lot of experience at it, and if there are    •    The GM has the authority to
          rules for situations so that you don’t              override either of these things in
          have to make a lot of judgment calls,               the name of fun, gameplay, or
          that can help.                                      the story.
            In this case, one might argue that the
          GM has less power because the rules             The interesting thing is that the
          take some away. A player could, for           authority in #3 is held by the GM,
          example, tell the GM that he or she is        but it is granted by the other players
          wrong based on a rule in a rulebook.          and can be taken away if the need ever
          In such a case, who’s right, the GM or        arises. This then, becomes an inherent
          the rules? (In 3rd edition, we had the        system of checks and balances to keep
          infamous Rule Zero, which simply said         the GM from using the power for
          “check with your Dungeon Master” to           anything other than the greater good,
          insure DM supremacy over the rules.           as seen by the entire group. The game
          This was removed for the 3.5 edition,         group polices itself.                  Ω




                                                                                                   Kobold Quarterly 20   39
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
       Captured in the Cartways




          Captured
                 Cartways
          in the
               An Adventure for 5th-level Pathfinder RPG Characters
          By Christina Stiles
          Cartography by Sean Macdonald




          W
                         hile exploring Zobeck’s
                         dangerous Cartways,
                         the PCs find themselves
          surrounded by elements of Vralgor
          Szarn’s gang (see the Zobeck Gazetteer
          or Kobold Quarterly issue #4), led by
          the barghests Zelaf and Holst. If the
          PCs fight, more and more of Szarn’s
          forces arrive, making surrender the
          best option. Smart characters will
          attempt to bargain for their freedom,
          and Zelaf and Holst can be swayed
          for a price. They want the Cartways
          cleared of an unusual interloper—a
          chain-wielding being known as
          LazMorta. Vralgor Szarn had ordered
          them to remove LazMorta, but they’d
          prefer expendables like the PCs handle
          it instead.
            Presenting the creature’s head to the        with the prized painting in hand. The     lot of trash for their cavern, and that
          barghests proves the PCs succeeded,            barghests recognize the painting but      others continue to dump it there, but
          and success secures their freedom.             don’t want it (they think it’s cursed).   they have no idea why.
                                                         They will hold onto it while the            Also, no one has seen Gozran since
          adventure hooKs                                PCs complete the mission, however.        LazMorta’s attack over a week ago.
          The PCs might be in the Cartways for           Otherwise, they take something            Zelaf and Holst feign concern for him
          any of the following reasons:                  valuable from each PC for insurance.      but secretly hope he’s dead.
            • Seeking an entrance to the                                                             Note: The lair’s rooms are unlit, so
                 kobold city of Lillefor                 into the gang’s lair                      the PCs will need a light source. PCs
            • Assassinating or spying on rival           The barghests lead the PCs to an          coming within 30 ft. of area 1 smell
                 gang members                            area of the Cartways where a passage      the trash heap’s horrid stench and must
            • Infiltrating a nobleman’s vault (as        descends to the former lair of their      make DC 15 Fortitude saves every round
                 per the Streets of Zobeck’s “The Fish   barghest ally, Gozran (see map).          they remain within 30 ft. of its entrance
                 and the Rose” heist adventure)          Having never visited the abode, they      or exit. A character who fails the saving
            If used with “The Fish and the Rose”         have no basic map or idea of what the     throw is sickened for 1d6 rounds.
          adventure, the gang surrounds the              PCs might encounter within. They            The kobolds and their barghest
          PCs after they clear Greymark’s chasm          have heard the kobolds collected a        leader are immune to the smell. They


          40      Winter 2012
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
          found it a great deterrent, along
          with the area’s otyugh residents, to        Dramatis Personae
          trespassers—at least until LazMorta
          came along.                                 vralgor szarn and his gang
                                                      Vralgor Szarn (see Zobeck Gazetteer or Kobold Quarterly issue #2) is an
          1. Kalman’s Glorious Heap of                advanced greater barghest rogue who has grown fat and powerful in the
             TrasH (Cr 6; Xp 2,400)                   tunnels below Zobeck. He magically controls Ersebet Cemilla, guildmaster
          A kobold engineer named Kalman              of a thieves’ guild above, whose rogues he uses as a spy network. He has
          decided the gang’s lair needed that         a gang of barghests, kobolds, and goblins in the Cartways who ruthlessly
                                                      hunt those threatening his power or trespassing into his realm. Vralgor
          extra oomph to differentiate it from
                                                      occasionally devours lesser barghests with designs on usurping his leadership.
          the other, unimaginative hideouts           Zelaf and Holst may become his next meal.
          he’d encountered. With Gozran’s
          blessing, he convinced his kobold           zelaF and holst
          crew to gather the largest pile of          Zelaf and Holst consider themselves wily and are indeed slightly smarter
          refuse the Cartways had ever seen.          than their kin. They lead a group of 20 kobolds. Each barghest wants to
          The industrious kobolds took great          seize Vralgor’s position, but they currently lack the power to eliminate him;
          pride in their work, canvassing             therefore, they seek their master’s favor while awaiting their opportunity.
          the Cartways and the streets above             Gaining Vralgor’s favor includes capturing useful individuals—like the
                                                      PCs—who could be pressed into the gang or serve in some other way.
          for discarded treasures of waste,
                                                      When their master ordered them to eliminate LazMorta after she massacred
          including mountains of dead rats and        his minions and seized their lair as her own, they immediately began
          other vermin.                               searching for a way to avoid the mission. The two are reluctant to tussle
            The result is a thing of beauty, in       with the strange, scarred, chain-covered woman, as they do not completely
          kobold eyes. Its splendor covers the        understand her true nature or abilities—other than that she has proven
          entire width of the vast chamber at         extremely dangerous. Therefore, finding subcontractors to take on the job
          kobold-height, and only a small trail       seems like an excellent idea, and the PCs nicely fill the bill.
          meanders through it to the cavern              If pressed for more information, the barghests admit they know little
          beyond. Rats (some of which are the         about LazMorta. According to two kobolds who fled the massacre and
          Mouse King’s spies) and bugs scurry         have since gone aboveground, she is one of the strangest things they’ve
          within the trash pile.                      encountered, even in the Cartways.
                                                         Barghests, hp 45 (Pathfinder Roleplaying Game Bestiary 1)
            Kalman enticed an otyugh pair
          to relocate to this fine cesspool by        lazMorta
          promising food and furnishings              The newest denizen in Szarn’s territory, the kyton LazMorta now resides
          (meaning more trash than the                in the seized gang lair, part of which is a forgotten crypt. She has already
          creatures could eat) if they helped         redecorated her chosen cavern with veils of chains and a few hanging
          protect the lair. LazMorta bypassed         kobolds and their barghest leader, and they all receive her sadistic attentions
          the otyughs with her wings of flying        daily. To her, they are like joyful bric-a-brac that gives her new abode that
                                                      homey feel.
          when she took the gang’s lair, but
          she brings the otyughs a steady
          supply of food, so they willingly
          work for her now. The Cartways’           female is less alert, sleeping often since   2. Kobold Cavern (Cr 3)
          other residents throw their trash in      she’s with child (make her Perception        The bodies of over 13 kobolds lie
          the cavern entrance, maintaining          +7 to his +9).                               throughout this debris- and pallet-
          the heap’s glory, so all is good in the     The male watches the path with             filled cavern. LazMorta caught many
          otyughs’ world.                           an eye stalk hidden beneath the              of them asleep and strangled them
                                                    refuse (spotting it requires a DC 25         with her silent chains before they could
          Otyughs (2), hp 39 (Bestiary 1)           Perception check). The otyughs will          startle the others. The smell here is
                                                    let trespassers past the female and into     hideous, but it does not compare to
          Tactics: Like many couples, the           the center of the room to gain surprise      the trash heap’s stench, so the PCs
          otyughs find residing on separate         before attacking.                            barely notice. Vermin scamper about
          ends of their home keeps their                                                         the cavern (including LazMorta’s rat
          relationship happy and intact.            Treasure: If the PCs want to dig             familiar Xorx, who informs her of any
            The female stays buried near the        through the refuse, it takes 1d4 hours       intruders) and feed on the kobolds’
          cavern’s left center, while her mate      and a DC 30 Perception check to              remains. LazMorta allows the kobolds
          resides near the entrance to area 2,      locate 36 gp, 73 sp, 38 cp, and a wand       to rot here, occasionally gathering one
          ensuring no one gets past him. The        of magic missile (6 charges).                to throw to the otyughs.


                                                                                                             Kobold Quarterly 20        41
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
       Captured in the Cartways




            On a DC 20 Heal check, PCs find         contains 4d6 gp. Five random holes are        occasional rock lying in the chamber.
          a body intact enough to note that         trapped with dart traps.                      Apparently, a more heated battle took
          strangulation caused its death. The                                                     place in this cavern, though only one
          PCs can also find various digging tools    Camouflaged Pit traP                 Cr3     kobold body is present. Rats have
          strewn throughout the cavern and 16       Type: mechanical; Perception DC 25;           not yet gotten to it, but the maggots
          small sleeping pallets.                     Disable Device DC 20                        have. On a Heal DC 25 Check, the
                                                    Trigger: location; Reset manual               PCs discern something barbed cut
          Traps: Lest the PCs forget how            Effect: 30-ft. deep pit (3d6 falling          into the creature, ripping flesh out
                                                      damage); DC 20 Reflex avoids;
          much kobolds love their traps, they         multiple targets (all target in a 10-ft.-   with its withdrawal.
          encounter one just a few feet into the      square area)                                  Gozran shared this area with his six
          cavern, and another lies between the                                                    favored kobolds, including Kalman.
          sleeping pallets in the room’s center.     Poisoned dart traP                   Cr1     LazMorta imprisoned Gozran and
          Five kobolds have trapped their           Type: mechanical; Perception DC 20;           three of the kobolds below, hanging
          treasure hidey-holes with poisoned          Disable Device DC 20                        them from chains and torturing them.
          dart traps, so searching for loot can     Trigger: Touch; Reset none                    She fed the fifth kobold—who was
          be dangerous. LazMorta flies into         Effect: Atk +10 ranged (1d3 plus              not quite dead yet—to the otyughs.
                                                      greenblood oil)
          the room for body pick-ups for the                                                      The sixth kobold and one from area 2
          otyughs, as she knows the kobolds’                                                      have risen as wraiths and now reside
          reputation for traps.                     3. Gozran’s Cavern                            in area 4.
                                                       (Cr 3; XP 800)                             Treasure: The PCs find five pouches
          Treasure: Searching reveals small holes   Dried blood stains this cavern’s floor,       beneath the kobolds’ bedding,
          under the bedding, each of which          the seven sleeping pallets, and the           each containing 7d6 gp in gems


          42      Winter 2012
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
                                                                                               Before Combat Alerted to intruders
          and assorted coins. The kobolds           removed the ropes. LazMorta cast             via her alarm spell or rat familiar,
          also have various broken ceramic          alarm at the shaft’s entrance to            LazMorta casts a major image of
          treasures (statuettes and pieces of       mentally alert her to intruders.            herself (with her back to the entering
          pottery adored for their beautiful          There is nothing of value in the room.    PCs) torturing a chained barghest
                                                                                                inside the second chain veil.
          colors) wrapped in cloth near their                                                   LazMorta then casts invisibility and
          beds. Hidden beneath a rock in the        6. lazmorta’s ChamBer oF                    mirror image before flying to the top
          cavern (DC 30 Perception to locate)         Chains (Cr 9; Xp 6,400)                   of the chamber to await the PCs.
          is Gozran’s treasure: a large sack        Descending the shaft, the PCs find         During Combat LazMorta casts haste
                                                                                                when the party attacks her image and
          containing 657 gp in coin and gems.       themselves in the midst of a circular       initially attacks any PCs within 20 feet
                                                    veil of chains, which obscures their        using chains from the veils. She may
          4. Crypt (Cr 5; Xp 1,600)                 view into the chamber (-10 to visual        also attack with her silent chains.
          Human-sized sarcophagi fill this room.    Perception checks). Pulling a section      Morale If reduced to 20 hp or fewer,
          Their lids have been unlocked or          aside reveals another ring of chains        LazMorta flies up the pit shaft to area
                                                                                                5 and casts invisibility, escaping the
          smashed open. The kobolds found a         hangs further inwards.                      lair; she recruits 3-5 other kytons (a
          few baubles hidden within them many         With a hearing-based DC 15                link) and later tracks down the PCs to
          years ago, but not much else. Two         Perception check, the party can hear        take as prisoners for her enjoyment.
          sarcophagi lie crushed against others,    low moaning from the western side of       STATISTICS

          a testament to Gozran’s temper at his     the room (from Gozran). LazMorta           Str 17, Dex 21, Con 18, Int 13, Wis 12,
                                                                                                 Cha 10
          initial inability to unlock them.         is on the eastern side observing her       Base Atk +11; CMB +14; CMD 29
                                                    chained kobolds to gauge how much          Feats Alertness, Blind-Fight, Combat
          Creatures: Two Small-sized wights         more torture they can withstand today.       Casting, Critical Focus, Empower
          now haunt the crypt (Pathfinder RPG                                                    Spell, Improved Initiative, Scribe
                                                                                                 Scroll, Weapon Finesse, Weapon
          Bestiary 1).                               LAZMORTA                         CR 9
                                                                                                 Focus (chains)
                                                    XP 6,400                                   Skills Acrobatics +14, Climb +14,
          Development: The wights currently         Female kyton illusionist 6                   Craft (blacksmith) +11, Escape
          fear LazMorta and hide whenever she       LE Medium outsider (evil, extraplanar,       Artist +14, Heal +2, Intimidate +12,
          appears. She knows about them but           lawful)                                    Perception +14, Sense Motive
                                                    Init +9; Senses darkvision (60 feet);        +5, Spellcraft +10, Stealth +11,
          has been too busy with her prisoners        Perception +14                             Survival +2
          to subjugate them to her will.            DEFENSE                                    Languages Common, Draconic,
                                                    AC 23, touch 15, flat-footed 19 (+4          Dwarven, Infernal
          Treasure: One kobold still has a pouch      armor, +5 Dex, +4 natural)               SQ arcane bond (familiar rat, “Xorx”),
          containing 7d6 in coin and gems and       hp 121 (8d10+6d6+56); Regeneration           blinding ray (3/day) (Sp), chain
                                                      2 (good weapons and spells, silver         armor (Ex), dancing chains (DC 15)
          wears a cloak of the rat (new magical                                                  (Su), Extended Illusions (+2r) (Su),
                                                      weapons)
          item, described below).                   Fort +14, Ref +13, Will +8                   Unnerving Gaze (DC 15) (Su)
                                                    DR 5/good or silver; Immune cold; SR         Combat Gear +1 chains of silence
          5. Crypt eXtension and pit                  17                                         (x4); Other Gear wings of flying
                                                                                               SPECIAL ABILITIES
             (Cr 0)                                 OFFENSE
                                                                                               Blinding Ray (Sp) This is a 30-ft.
          This room contains many human-            Speed 30 ft.
                                                                                                 ranged touch attack usable up to 3
                                                    Melee +1 chains of silence x4 (kyton)
          sized sarcophagi, but its most unusual                                                 times per day that blinds/dazzles for
                                                       +18 x4 (2d4+4/20/x2)
          feature is the odd-shaped pit in the                                                   1 round.
                                                    Arcane School Spell-Like Abilities
          middle of the floor. Shining a light                                                 Chain Armor (Ex) The chains that
                                                       (CL 6th; Concentration +11)
                                                                                                 adorn a kyton grant it a +4 armor
          into the hole reveals that the wide       3/day—blinding ray                           bonus but are not treated as armor
          opening tapers down to a 10-ft.-wide      Illusionist Spells Prepared (CL 6th,         for the purpose of arcane spell
          shaft, extending some 35 ft. before          16 melee touch, 16 ranged touch;          failure, armor check penalties,
                                                       Concentration +11):                       maximum Dexterity, weight, or
          ending in a hole whose bottom lies           3rd—dispel magic, haste, major            proficiency.
          another 20 ft. below.                         image                                  Dancing Chains (Su) A kyton can
            With a DC 35 Perception check, a           2nd—alarm, mirror image (DC 15),          control up to four chains within 20
          PC can hear a tinkling metallic noise         invisibility x2                          ft. as a standard action, making
          (chains) or a low moan (one of the           1st—color spray (DC 14), hypnotism        the chains dance or move as it
                                                        (DC 14), magic missile, silent image     wishes. In addition, a kyton can
          prisoners), but nothing in the chamber        (DC 14), ventriloquism (DC 14)           increase these chains’ length by
          below can be seen. Spikes with circular      0—(at will) daze (DC 13), detect          up to 15 ft. and cause them to
          eyelets have been driven into the crypt       magic, ghost sound (DC 13), disrupt      sprout razor-edged barbs. These
          room’s floor; the kobolds tied ropes          undead                                   chains attack as effectively as the
                                                    Opposition Schools Divination,               kyton itself. If a chain is in another
          through the holes to descend below                                                     creature’s possession, the creature
                                                       Necromancy
          to store their stolen goods. LazMorta     TACTICS                                      can attempt a DC 15 Will save to


                                                                                                            Kobold Quarterly 20      43
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
                                                       departed loved ones or bitter
                                                       enemies. Those who fail their saves        Cartways knowledge in his head,
             CLOAk OF THE RAT                          become shaken for 1d3 rounds. This         making him a potentially valuable
             Aura moderate transmutation; CL 5th       is a mind-affecting fear effect. The       contact for the PCs.
             Slot shoulders; Price 12,400; Wt 1lb.     save DC is Charisma-based
             DESCRIPTION
                                                     Development: If LazMorta escapes,
                                                       she returns later to gather a kyton link
             This gray garment bestows a +5
                                                       and seeks out the PCs for revenge.
              competence bonus on Perception
              checks. Once per day, the wearer
              can contort his body to shimmy         Treasure: An unlocked chest                  ConCluding the adventure
              through small spaces (if not           containing 550 gp rests beneath                As stated above, the PCs must return
              wearing metal armor) normally          her hammock. Twenty stolen                   LazMorta’s head to the barghests, who
              accessible only by creatures one
              category smaller than himself (as
                                                     crates of various foodstuffs sit             will have minions watching for their
              per alter self) or to escape bonds.    along the northeastern wall (value           return in the Cartways, to prove they
              Also, once per day, the wearer         350 gp total).                               succeeded in this task. Success garners
              may transform himself and his                                                       their freedom, though the barghests
              carried or worn possessions into a
              dire rat (as per beast shape I).
                                                     Prisoners: Gozran (5 hp), in goblin          do seem reluctant to let them go. The
             CONSTRUCTION
                                                     form, hangs on the western side              pair does relieve them of any treasure
             Requirements: Craft Wondrous            of the room. Two barbs pierce                they gained during the adventure, but
              Item, 5 ranks in Perception, alter     through his outstretched arms, and           they return the “Fish and the Rose”
              self, beast shape I; Cost 6,200 gp     his shoulders are dislocated. The            painting if they’ve been holding it
                                                     kobolds—Kalman (1 hp), Croxrok               hostage (per the suggested connection
            break the kyton’s power over that        (3 hp), and Tellick (4 hp)—form a            to the Streets of Zobeck adventure).
            chain. If the save succeeds, the         triangular, rotating mobile above            Having fought hard for these rewards
            kyton cannot attempt to control that     LazMorta’s chain-hammock bed                 should make the PCs want to return
            particular chain again for 24 hours or   in the eastern side of the room.             to get their revenge. Note that the
            until the chain leaves the creature’s
            possession. A kyton can climb            Kalman rests at the top of the               Zelaf and Holst do not promise the
            chains it controls at its normal speed   triangle; chains wrap around his             PCs any future protection should
            without making Climb checks. The         torso and throat, and barbs have             the group decide to return to the
            save DC is Charisma-based.               ripped his body.                             Cartways. However, the barghests
          Extended Illusions (Su) LazMorta
            can increase the duration of all her
                                                       If the PCs free the prisoners, they        may decide the PCs could be useful
            illusion spells by 3 rounds.             all need healing. Saving them allows         in eventually helping them rid
          Unnerving Gaze (Su) Range 30 ft., DC       the PCs to call in a future favor from       the tunnels of their boss, thereby
            15 Will negates. A kyton can make its    the group. Gozran has a decade of            improving their lot.               Ω
            face resemble one of an opponent’s



       d20 Monkey




          44      Winter 2012
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
       Putting the Band Back Together




               Putting the Band
                Back Together
          By Stefen Styrsky
          Art by Jeff Preston


          Jake: We’re putting the band back              A game like this requires a bit
          together.                                    of discussion to ensure everyone
                                                       understands the set-up. It’s assumed
          Elwood: We’re on a mission from God.         the PCs share a history but are now
                                 —The Blues Brothers   dispersed or alienated from each
                                                       other. Players should determine what


          H
                    ale and hearty throughout          happened to their characters in the
                    their careers—that is how          intervening years and their current
                    we imagine PCs. No matter          attitudes about the good old days. They
          how long a character adventures or           might fondly remember the past, dwell
          how many levels she attains, she never       on age-old mistakes, or seek to atone
          seems to age beyond young adult.             for misdeeds. They might have grudges,
          Because players and many GMs                 old flames, or old feuds.
          neglect the age charts even more than          You can get things rolling a number
          the encumbrance tables, some games           of ways. One PC might stumble upon
          miss out on tremendous potential             a new menace—maybe an assassin                 For example, the fighter and cleric
          entertainment. What follows are a few        hired to kill him bears the mark of          must reach their old monk friend—
          ideas to encourage interest in playing       the party’s former nemesis—and he            now living as a mountain hermit—
          an “over the hill” party.                    has to warn his old friends about the        before a dragon sent by their old foe
            This article uses a framing device         resurgent threat. A young relative           gets to him. The fastest route snakes
          called “putting the band back together.”     might present a PC with a problem            through a dungeon underneath the
          Literature and popular entertainment         related to his former exploits. The          peaks, which the PCs cleared out years
          have covered this story many times.          children of a beloved NPC might              ago. It hasn’t stayed empty, of course,
          Examples run from the aforementioned         contact the characters for help or           and while much of the place remains
          Blues Brothers to Dumas’ sequel to the       for revenge. To give the game more           familiar, new denizens have arrived and
          Three Musketeers, Twenty Years After;        emotional resonance, ideally the             dug new tunnels and set different traps.
          from Stephen King’s IT to Warren Ellis’s     players can use stats for characters who       If the PCs are older, it’s logical that
          and Cully Hamner’s comic book R.E.D;         previously adventured together.              any former enemies are also a bit longer
          and the gritty, intense fantasy novel, The     The first few adventures are not the       in the tooth. Perhaps their nemesis
          Steel Remains, by Richard K. Morgan.         usual get-to-know-you sorts—in this          has aged poorly and lingers in a truly
            This scenario starts with the party        case, four strangers do not meet in a bar    decrepit state. Alternatively, thoughts
          members retired from a career of             for the first time. Instead, the beginning   of revenge may have motivated their
          adventure. They have defeated the Dark       adventure consists of the PCs trying to      former opponent to stay fit, whereas
          Lord or helped install the Good King and     reconnect. Along the way, they must          the PCs have let themselves go. Their
          gone their separate ways. Now married        evade or defeat minions of their old (or     enemy’s henchmen may also be older. For
          with families, occupied with a business,     new) foe, and face dangers that have         example, Dox, the scary ogre-barbarian
          or just bored and whiling away the           arisen since they retired. GMs have the      who once regularly trounced the party’s
          years, the PCs must reunite for another      opportunity here to reuse old adventures     fighter, might struggle to maintain his
          mission. Maybe the enemy they believed       and locations. Discovering what has and      dignity by acting as tough as he used to
          dead actually lives, or his henchmen are     what hasn’t changed becomes part of the      be but betray his frailer state through a
          taking revenge after decades of lying low.   fun for the players.                         persistent cough or bad back.


          46      Winter 2012
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
                                                    Benefit: Choose one physical ability
            By definition, this sort of game          score: Strength, Constitution, or
          demands the PCs be middle aged or           Dexterity. You suffer no further              The Young Guy
          older. This means they incur penalties      age-related penalties to this               What if one player doesn’t want
          to some characteristics and bonuses         characteristic. If you choose this          to run an older PC? Then let
                                                      feat when you enter middle age, you
          to others. Fighters, rogues, and those      never take age-related penalties to         him play the child or younger
          relying on physical abilities tend to       this ability score. You cannot alter        relative of an original teammate.
          wear out with age, while clerics and        this choice once it is made. Spells         Sometimes a companion
          wizards improve with time. Monks and        or effects imposing penalties due to        succumbs to the ravages of
                                                      aging still apply.                          intervening years, or the bad guy
          druids might end up as the party’s most   Special: You can gain this feat multiple
          powerful members.                                                                       gets to him before his friends. You
                                                      times. Its effects do not stack. Each       can use death or murder to explain
            The GM must account for this when         time you take the feat, it applies to a
                                                      new physical characteristic.
                                                                                                  a PC’s absence—possibly even
          creating encounters. He should also                                                     using revenge for the latter as the
          keep the players’ minds off ability                                                     campaign’s motivation—and as a
          penalties by emphasizing roleplaying      honed skill                                   straightforward way to integrate
          and giving the PCs more chances to        A lifetime of practice has made you           a younger character into the
          use hard-earned life experience: clues    better than anyone.                           storyline. Having the young PC
          and Knowledge rolls should be more        Prerequisite: Middle age or older             be the reincarnated soul of a dead
          important than usual. He should           Benefit: Choose one class skill. Your         character can also work well.
                                                      ranks in that skill can exceed your
          also emphasize the nostalgia factor,        character level +3.
          allowing everyone can relive their
          glory days.                               love oF liFe                                  lose all age-related penalties to this
                                                    You persevere through sheer force of          characteristic. These rounds need
                                                                                                  not be consecutive.
          new Feats                                 personality.                                Special: You can gain this feat multiple
          “Though much is taken, much abides.”      Prerequisite: Middle age or older
                                                                                                  times. Its effects do not stack. Each
                                      —Tennyson     Benefit: You may use your Charisma            time you take the feat, it applies to a
                                                      modifier instead of your Constitution       new physical characteristic.
                                                      modifier when calculating bonus hit
          The following feats require a character     points gained at each new level. This
          to be middle age or older. To               applies only to Hit Dice gained when      veneraBle
          compensate for penalties to Strength,       you are middle age or older.              Your age garners you respect.
          Dexterity, and Constitution, the GM                                                   Prerequisite: Middle age or older
          might award these bonus feats.            oF equal teMper                             Benefit: You gain a +2 bonus on Bluff,
                                                                                                  Diplomacy, and Intimidate checks
                                                    (CoMBat, teaMwork)                            against intelligent creatures at least
          a liFetiMe oF MeMories                    You and your comrades work well               one age category younger than you.
          You never forget.                         together.                                     For each age category younger
          Prerequisite: Middle age or older         Prerequisite: Middle age or older             than you, the bonus increases by an
          Benefit: You gain a +4 competence         Benefit: Whenever you use a                   additional +2.
            bonus to all Knowledge skills,            teamwork feat to grant an ally
            and you can make such checks              a bonus on a check or d20 roll,           withered
            untrained.                                increase the bonus by +2.                 You are so old you appear to be a
                                                    Special: This is a combat feat and can      walking corpse.
          Battle sCars                                be selected as a fighter bonus feat.      Prerequisite: Old age or older
          After a lifetime of wounds, your skin                                                 Benefit: You are invisible, as the spell,
                                                                                                  to unintelligent undead. Intelligent
          has become rigid and tough.               ornery                                        undead gain a Will save (DC 10+
          Prerequisite: Middle age or older         Old age has made you bitter and               1/2 your character level + Charisma
          Benefit: You gain DR 1/–. This stacks     spiteful. Others better watch out.            modifier) to negate this effect.
            with other DR/– you possess.            Prerequisite: Middle age or older
          Constancy of Age                          Benefit: You gain a +2 bonus on
          You are dependable.                         checks to resist attempts to
                                                                                                new simple template:
          Prerequisite: Middle age or older           Intimidate you. When an opponent           wizened Creature (Cr -1)
          Benefit: Whenever you roll a 1 or a 20      fails to Intimidate you, he becomes       Creatures with this template are older
            on a d20, treat the result as an 11.      shaken for 1d4+1 rounds.                  specimens of the base creature.
                                                                                                  Quick Rules: +2 to all Intelligence-,
          Fit as a Fiddle                           still got it                                Wisdom-, and Charisma-based rolls, -2
          Through luck or perseverance, you         Prerequisite: Middle age or older           to all other rolls, -2 hp/HD.
          haven’t aged as much as your years        Benefit: Choose one physical ability          Rebuild Rules: Ability Scores -4
                                                      score: Strength, Constitution, or
          should indicate.                            Dexterity. For a number of rounds per     Strength, -4 Constitution, +4 bonus to
          Prerequisite: Middle age or older           day equal to your character level, you    Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma. Ω


                                                                                                             Kobold Quarterly 20       47
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
       Fey Hunters & Shadow Hounds




          Fey Hunters &
           Shadow Hounds
               Hunting PCs in the Margreve and the Shadow Plane
          By Christopher Bodan
          Art by Rick Hershey




          E
                    ach summer, a few scions of         in the margreve…                         in terrifying their prey; the kill is a
                    Zobeck’s wealthy families           The shadow fey use the Margreve as       satisfying postscript.
                    hire guides and ride into the       their private hunting preserve. The        Fey on the hunt often offer bargains
          outer edges of the shadowed Margreve          thrill of the chase and kill quickens    to beleaguered prey: sacrifice this one
          woods. With the warm sun riding high,         them as few other pastimes can,          friend and the rest may live; these
          a band of laughing companions hunts           and they chase down forest beasts        starmetal weapons can be yours, if you
          the stag or hart, the boar, or more           with an enthusiasm no other hunter       abandon your wounded companion.
          rarified game.                                could match. But no beast, however       They conjure illusions to mislead their
             Sometimes, they stay too long or           powerful, provides the joy of hunting    quarry, to convince them to turn on
          stray too far, and the forest’s paths grow    intelligent prey.                        each other, and to drive them to save
          more twisted, its shadows even deeper,          Most mortals in the Margreve escape    themselves at the cost of their friends.
          and its sounds increasingly ominous.          the shadow fey’s notice. The forest is
          The beasts they hunt flee, but not from       vast, the hunters and potential prey     run, little raBBit, run
          them. The lucky few discover before           relatively few, and other dangers        A shadow fey hunt begins when the
          it’s too late that, for all their skill and   abound. Those exploring the deeper,      fey capture or discover mortals in the
          prowess, they have become the prey.           wilder sections, however, may            forest. With captives, the fey assess
             Sometimes, a few of them survive.          encounter fey seeking a little sport.    the individuals’ desires, physical and
             Sometimes.                                   For the fey, the enjoyment lies        mental toughness, and any exploitable


          48      Winter 2012
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
          weaknesses. They usually offer the most     down the path, or their minds become
          basic bargain: any who escape the hunt      so muddled they do not see the pit             Character Effects
          may live. Other offers may follow—          that everyone else avoids with ease. The     Margreve Distortion: Those
          give us this one, and the rest may go;      fey know injured friends slow down           escaping shadow fey attacks in
          open your minds to us for a night and       a party, especially if their wounds do       the Margreve often discover their
          be free in the morning; survive the         not heal, so they often attack a group       flight, which seemed to take hours
          night and name your reward—but the          with the goal of forcing them to leave       or days even, took place in a
          later offers are always less-palatable so   behind their hampered companions.            matter of minutes; and while they
          that the mortals decide to run.             After their misdirection attacks, the        believe they’ve travelled the length
                                                      fey divide their prey with magical fog       of the dangerous wood in that
                                                                                                   time, they’ve run, hid, and fought
          shadow Fey taCtiCs:                         or illusory terrain. They target and
                                                                                                   all within a square mile. This is
          ConFuse, divide, and weaken                 secret away the group’s most disruptive      an unusual effect of the Margreve,
          During the hunt, the fey start from a       members: healers, spellcasters, or those     which the immune shadow fey
          distance. They use illusions to divert      with good survival skills. Removing          wholeheartedly exploit during
          their prey into dense or dangerous          them allows the fey to prolong their         their hunts. Crafty or skilled
          areas, lure them to the lairs of            play with the weaker group members,          survivors may quickly realize the
          dangerous creatures, and unnerve            whose fear is often heightened by the        truth, but only after given enough
          them with ominous sights, sounds,           loss of their companions.                    resting time—1 hour or more—to
          and sensations. They set traps to kill        Unless enraged, the fey rarely kill        think (DC 18 Survival or DC 22
          mounts and servants, or they shower         isolated individuals immediately,            Perception check, +1 for every two
          their prey with highly acidic missiles,     preferring to keep them around for           hours the hunt).
                                                                                                      Drug Effects: Individuals
          destroying their equipment and armor.       entertainment. The fey trap them in
                                                                                                   repeatedly poisoned by shadow
          The shadow fey only reveal themselves       pits or pens, keeping them in drug-          fey toxins, whether from coated
          to goad their quarry into fleeing,          induced stupors so they do not escape.       weapons or snares, often develop
          thereby enhancing the joy of the hunt.      If a hunt lasts long enough, the fey         phobias or manias. Whenever
             The shadow fey’s initial tactic is to    dangle these captured (and tortured)         three or more poisonings affect
          confuse their prey, using illusions and     companions as prizes for bedraggled          a PC, he must succeed at a DC
          traps to misdirect or thwart them. They     groups to win back—such companions           20 Will save, or he gains a touch
          create illusionary creatures to stalk the   must be saved from some precarious           of insanity (see the Pathfinder
          group from distant trees, herding its       situation quickly (like hanging from a       Roleplaying Game’s GameMastery
          members in circles, down twisted paths,     rope on an upper branch, while their         Guide or “A Broken Mind” in
          or toward the shadow fey’s sacrificial      body’s weight breaks a smaller branch        KQ#11 for insanity options).
          sites within the Margreve. The fey’s        beneath their feet), or their death is
          illusions also serve to unnerve the group   imminent. This is all part of the sport
          and waste its spells and ranged-weapon      of the hunt: using one’s companions        them with acid-based arrows to deprive
          resources—which prove ineffectual           against him. Then again, sometimes         them of armor and useful gear and to
          against the incorporeal beings. Of          they keep the more interesting ones as     inflict lingering wounds. Then they
          course, the fey vary their illusions with   trophies to take back to their queen in    send out the hounds and any other
          real attacks, pelting the group with        the Shadow Realm; or they use them         allies to weaken the group. Through it
          special, poison-coated arrows (see          to test a party’s morality with unusual    all, the fey harass the group with long-
          Tools and Talons of the Trade below) or     deals, upping the stakes if the group      range magic and weapons, never letting
          sending forth shadow hounds to run the      seems disinterested: “You can have         them rest long enough to recover spells.
          individuals aground—all done to keep        him back, or you can have these rare         The fey ultimately kill troublesome
          their prey guessing.                        enchanted starmetal weapons. What do       prey, knowing they won’t be suitable
             The shadow fey utilize plant poisons     you choose?”                               trophies or servants to take home. Those
          to temporarily dazzle, fascinate, or          Ideally, the PCs should have a few       who gave good sport or caught the fey in
          otherwise unbalance their prey, and         NPCs along for the fey to snatch. If       the right mood might go to the Shadow
          the Margreve has numerous such flora        missing individuals are much-loved         Realm for unreal years of wonders and
          that produce these effects. In addition     or particularly important (the “escort     horrors. Some with useful talents or
          to their arrows, the fey huntsmen           my son safely through the Margreve”        positions lose their wills and become
          coat their darts, plant traps, and          setup), then abandoning them to save       servants of the shadow fey in this realm.
          caltrops with these Margreve toxins.        their own lives becomes more difficult.    Others who ran with skill and cunning
          Some poisoned individuals mistake             Lastly, when the fey attack in full      may be broken and warped, transformed
          their comrades for monsters and flee,       strength, they focus on the strongest,     into fey hunting hounds to run their
          convinced an escape route lies just         most armored individuals, blasting         former friends to ground.


                                                                                                             Kobold Quarterly 20       49
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
       Fey Hunters & Shadow Hounds


                                                     first). Mundane armor or shields             or gain the entangled condition and
                Umbral Gossamer                      reduced to 0 AC bonus are destroyed.         suffer 2d4 damage from the very fine
            Spun from frost and the shadows          Magical armor or shields reduced to 0        tendrils the net sends into the target’s
            of the towering forests in the           armor bonus continue to provide their        flesh, binding the net to its victim.
            Shadow Realm, these silky, silvery       magical enhancement bonus to AC              These also inflict 1 hp damage per
            strands are woven and braided into       and can be repaired normally.                round and cause 2d4 damage when
            various grades of rope and other            Mist Arrow: This arrow’s grey-            removed. Removing a net requires
            fabrics. Umbral gossamer is strong,      wooden shaft is shot through with            a DC 23 Escape Artist check or
            lightweight, and always just slightly    black swirls, and its silver-trimmed         external help.. The net sends tendrils
            cool to the touch. The shadow fey        arrowhead has broad blades. The arrow        into only one creature at a time and
            highly prize all goods and poisons
                                                     inflicts damage normally but is most         cannot entangle (but may still damage)
            made from it and rarely trade these
            goods to mortals.                        often shot near a target. When the           creatures larger than Medium size.
               The raw strands are                   arrow hits, it fills the target square and     Blessed Binding: This rope is braided
            never traded, for they take              six squares in every direction with fog      from umbral gossamer and used to
            enchantment very well. Some              for 12 rounds. All creatures with one        restrain prisoners. The rope reverses a
            speculate that, because materials        square or more of fog between them           victim’s emotional and pain responses,
            made from umbral gossamer                and an attacker have concealment,            turning terror to joy and pain to
            smoke and steam in this world,           even from creatures with darkvision.         pleasure. A bound character must pass
            the components might not                    Tracking Arrow: A black-shafted arrow     a DC 24 Will save when first bound
            survive in Midgard. This does            with a greenish sheen, this missile’s        and conscious or be affected as by a
            not stop enterprising or foolish         arrowhead has tiny barbs that break          charm person spell toward his captors.
            mortals from trying to bring the
                                                     off in the victim. The arrow inflicts        The victim receives a new save every 24
            strands back for weaving. None
            have yet succeeded.                      normal damage and 1 bleed damage.            hours, suffering a cumulative -1 penalty
                                                     The shadowy coating on its razor-sharp       for every 10 damage he suffered during
                                                     blades prevents magical healing less than    that time. If the character fails three
                                                     cure serious wounds from stopping the        consecutive Will saves, he becomes a
          tools and talons                           bleed damage. Blood lost from these          willing servant of the fey. Remove curse
           oF the trade                              wounds is very obvious to the shadow         removes this condition.
          The fey hunter’s arsenal is varied, from   fey, and the fey and their hounds gain a
          the cruel to the sublime, and designed     +6 circumstance bonus to track anyone        poison
          to heighten the pleasure of the hunt as    suffering this bleed damage.                 The shadow fey delight in the use
          much as to ensure an eventual kill (or        Gut of the Gutted: This enchanted         of weakening and hallucinogenic
          capture). These items are never bought     bowstring is made from the guts of           compounds derived from plants in the
          or sold by the shadow fey who make         previous prey and braided with umbral        Margreve or their own strange realm.
          them (and thus have no gp values).         gossamer. When using this item against       These are just a few of the formulas
          However, lucky adventuring groups          a creature of the same race as the           more popular for hunting.
          might acquire them as treasure. GMs        string (human, kobold, goblin, etc.),          Waking Dream: A pale yellow
          should consider the items valued at half   the attacker suffers no penalties from       paste derived from night-blooming
          the price of a similar magical item.       lighting or concealment and the target       flowers. Type injury; Save Fortitude
                                                     gains no benefit from any cover except       DC 22; Onset 1 minute; Frequency
          iTeMs                                      total cover. Attacks using this item still   1/minute for 2d4+2 minutes; Effect
            Acid Arrow: This arrow is constructed    require line of effect, and the attacker     gains the confused condition; Cure 3
          of pale, unearthly wood with a heavy       must still roll a normal attack.             consecutive saves.
          arrowhead of polished black laced with        Twilight Hunting Spear: Use boar            Private Joys: A sparkling purple
          green veins. The arrowhead is a highly     spear stats from the Advanced Player’s       poison distilled from moon drake tears
          corrosive acid bound in solid form by      Guide. Whenever this weapon strikes          and compounded with passionberry.
          sifting shadows. On the mortal plane,      a target in an area of dim light or less     Type contact; Save Fortitude DC 16;
          these shadows gently wisp off of it like   illumination, it does so as a ranged         Onset 1d6 rounds; Frequency 1/round
          thin smoke.                                touch attack instead of a standard           for 1d6+2 rounds; Effect gains the
            On a successful ranged attack, the       ranged melee attack.                         fascinated condition.
          head shatters (arrows are unrecoverable)      Tickle Net: Attacker must make a            Midsummer Madness: A
          and spreads over the target, doing 1d6     ranged touch attack unless the net           combination of tansyweed, Margreve
          damage to the creature and reducing        is part of a trap. If the attack hits, or    hellebore, and mandrake, bound
          the AC bonus of any armor and shields      when the trap is triggered, the net’s        together with finest umbral gossamer.
          by 1d4+1 (shields suffer this reduction    target must make a DC 24 Reflex save         Type injury; Save Will DC 20; Onset


          50      Winter 2012
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
                                                       Speed: Fey hunting hounds gain               Ability Scores: +2 Charisma, +2
          1d10 minutes; Effect target feels              additional movement equal to 15 ft. +       Strength, -3 Wisdom.
          disoriented when hit but seems to              5 times their Dexterity modifier. They
          recover; after onset, target raves for a       always ignore non-magical difficult        Fey hunting hound Condition
          moment and then runs in a random               terrain.                                   Fey hunting hounds originated as great
                                                       Melee: Fey hunting hounds gain two
          direction for 1d6+1 minutes.                   claw (slam) attacks and one bite as
                                                                                                    canines captured by the shadow fey,
            Never Alone: Pollen from the                 natural attacks if the base creature       broken to their will, and exposed to the
          flowering vine called feybell. Type            did not already have them. The claw        magic of the Shadow Realm. The fey
          injury; Save Will DC 24; Onset 1               attacks do 2d4 damage and the bite         discovered they could apply a similar
                                                         attack does 1d8 damage.
          minute; Frequency 1/hour for 24                                                           process to intelligent humanoids and gain
                                                       Special Attacks: Fey hunting hounds
          hours; Effect target hallucinates              lose any of their base creature’s          “hounds” that terrified their prey while
          sounds and views moving shapes and             special attacks but gain hunting           being just as effective. A prospective
          objects as obscured or indistinct; DC          shadows, once bitten, and shadow           hound is held captive in the Shadow
          18 Perception check allows the PC to           bleed special attacks, as well as low-     Realm for however long it takes for his
                                                         light vision and scent.
          distinguish reality from fantasy for 10      Hunting Shadows (Su) Once every
                                                                                                    will to break under relentless physical
          minutes; Cure 3 consecutive saves.             hour, as a standard action, a fey          and mental assaults (often using blessed
                                                         hunting hound may howl, a blood-           bindings). Once done, the enchantments
          Fey hunting hounds (Cr +2)                     chilling sound of pure joy in the          to create a new hunting hound are simple
                                                         chase. All non-fey creatures within 50
          Mortals caught by hunting shadow               ft. must pass a Will save or become        and embraced by the victim.
          fey who display particular skill or            frightened (see Fear in the Pathfinder       For the most part, fey hunting
          spirit may be broken to the fey’s will         RPG Core Rulebook). A creature             hounds look much like the people
          and changed into hunting hounds.               cannot become frightened from a            or creatures they were; humans,
                                                         hunting shadows attack more than
          These pitiable creatures take on the           once in the same 60-minute period,         kobolds, even centaurs drawn from
          characteristics of the more traditional        but multiple hounds can attempt            all walks of life and locations to serve
          hounds of the fey, regardless of their         multiple howls to affect an entire         the fey’s caprices. In low light or
          species of origin, and live only to run        group. Those who fail are frightened       darker conditions, the fey hunting
                                                         for 10 minutes after failing the save
          their master’s prey to ground. Rarely,         and shaken for 20 minutes after that.      hound takes on an unsettlingly canine
          favored hounds are rewarded with their         This is a mind-affecting fear effect.      appearance; a muzzle full of sharp
          lives and sanity, found abandoned              The save DC is Charisma-based.             fangs replaces the face, back-canted
          decades later in the wild places             Once Bitten (Su) The fey enjoy               and thickly-muscled legs push the
                                                         tormenting their prey as well as
          with their bodies physically intact                                                       creature taller, and claws like daggers
                                                         running it to ground, and their hunting
          and their minds restored but their             hounds serve both purposes. A fey          overlay the hands. Only this shadow
          memories—thankfully—empty.                     hunting hound may use a full-round         impression reveals the nature of the
                                                         attack action to make a special attack     magic shackling these creatures.
                                                         on a single target with its bite. If the
          Creating a Fey hunting hound                                                                A captured fey hunting hound may
                                                         attack inflicts any damage, the target
          “Fey hunting hound” is an acquired             is scarred; the wound feels cold           be cured through great effort. They
          template that can be added to any              enough to burn, and the limb or area       are creatures of purely animal instinct,
          Small, Medium, or Large creature with          around it goes numb. For the next 48       interested only in eating, sleeping, and
                                                         hours, a hound’s hunting shadows
          a minimum Wisdom of 12.                                                                   hunting for their masters. They will
                                                         special attack can be made against
          Challenge Rating: Same as base                                                            attempt to escape any imprisonment and
                                                         the target from a distance of 1 + the
            creature or base animal (whichever is
            higher) +2.
                                                         damage dealt miles away. Applying          attack any captors coming close enough.
                                                         cold iron to the wound prevents this       The cure requires powdered iron and
          Size and Type: The creature (referred          special attack, as does the use of a
            to hereafter as the base creature)                                                      mandrake from the Margreve slathered
                                                         heal spell.
            gains the fey subtype. Fey hunting                                                      over the hound’s face, hands, and feet,
                                                       Shadow Bleed (Su) If a single fey
            hound look much like their former                                                       and the hound must be restrained
                                                         hunting hound inflicts damage to a
            selves—men, women, kobolds, or
                                                         character equal or greater than the        outside from sundown to dawn for three
            other humanoids and animals—but
                                                         target’s Constitution score in a single    consecutive nights (including the night
            generally gain a snout, claws, and
                                                         combat, the victim must make a (DC
            fangs and take to walking on four                                                       of the new moon); the hound must also
                                                         10 + ½ level + Charisma modifier)
            legs. They retain their size.                                                           receive a remove curse spell each night to
                                                         Will save at -2. Failure means the
          AC: The fey hunting hound has a natural        PC immediately suffers 1 Wisdom or
            armor bonus of +3 over the base                                                         fully remove the fey’s magic. The victim
                                                         Dexterity drain (GM’s choice). The         loses the fey hunting hound template
            creature, but it cannot ever benefit         PC must make another save with
            from armor, even if it is wearing armor,     the same penalty one hour later or         but retains all memories of the time
            and never uses a shield.                     suffer 1 additional point of Wisdom        spent before becoming a hound and all
          hp: Fey hunting hounds gain +15 hp             or Dexterity drain (GM’s choice). A        the physical effects of it (damage, scars,
            but otherwise retain the racial Hit          remove curse prevents the need for
            Dice and hit point totals of the base                                                   etc.). Time spent as a hound is
                                                         the second save. The save DC is
            creature.                                    Charisma-based.                            blissfully forgotten.                     Ω


                                                                                                                 Kobold Quarterly 20        51
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
       AGE of Specialization




          AGE of Specialization
               Five New Character Options

          By Randall K . Hurlburt
          Art by Jeremy Mohler




          T
                    he AGE system presents three      can move 2 yards. No ally can move         damage such as extreme cold or heat.
                    specializations for each class,   more than 2 yards each time you use        You also get a bonus equal to your
                    which may not provide all the     this ability. Allies must be within        Magic score to any Constitution
          variety desired by more experienced         10 yards of you to take advantage of       (Stamina) tests made due to
          groups and players. This article            this ability but can move beyond this      environmental effects.
          introduces new specializations for each     range using this ability.                    Journeyman: Add +2 to the
          class, for use in any fantasy setting.        Journeyman: You can direct your          spellpower of any Primal spell you
            You may wish to rename these              allies in attacking or defending. You      cast.
          specializations to better fit your game.    can use an activate action to give all       Master: When you take damage
          The battle captain could represent an       allies within 8 yards of you either a +1   from Primal spells, you can absorb
          order of knighthood unique to your          to attack or a +1 to Defense until the     some of the energy in the form of
          setting and take their name, or if you      beginning of your next turn.               mana points. You gain MP equal
          had a location called Blackwoods,             Master: When you use the lightning       to your Constitution for each D6
          the skirmisher could become the             attack stunt, you can command one of       of damage caused by the spell. For
          Blackwoods Raider. Renaming adds            your allies to make the second attack      example, if you have Constitution
          flavor to the specializations and           instead of yourself. Choose one ally       is 3 and are struck by a Shock spell
          enriches your campaign setting.             within 10 yards to make an immediate       that does 1D6+4 damage, you would
                                                      melee or ranged attack against a target    gain 3 MP. You may gain MP above
          Battle Captain                              within range. The ally must have a         your normal pool of mana points to a
          warrior speCialization                      loaded ranged weapon to make a             maximum of your normal mana plus
          Not everyone leads by inspiring             ranged attack. Using the lightning         twice your Magic score. Using this
          example. Some lead through                  attack stunt in this way costs only 2      power does not reduce the amount of
          intelligence, cunning, and a                SP instead of the usual 3.                 damage taken.
          sharp tongue. Battle captains are
          knowledgeable in sound tactics and          elementalist                               master thieF
          strategy. Experienced fighters follow       Mage talent                                rogue speCialization
          battle captains because they get results,   More than just focusing on Primal          Those rogues who dedicate their lives
          not because of their charismatic            magic, an elementalist becomes             to taking what belongs to others can
          personalities or lack thereof.              one with it. They no longer simply         become master thieves. These rogues
                                                      manipulate the elements through            specialize in getting past locked doors,
           BATTLE CAPTAIN TALENT                      magic, but their body becomes a            avoiding traps, and dipping light
          Class: Warrior.                             conduit for elemental power.               fingers into passing pockets.
          Requirement: You must have Strength
              and Cunning 3 or higher.                 ELEMENTALIST TALENT                        MASTER THIEF TALENT
            You know how to best direct your          Class: Mage                                Class: Rogue
          allies in a fight.                          Requirement: You must have                 Requirement: You must have Cunning
            Novice: You can command your                  Constitution and Magic 3 or higher         and Dexterity 3 or higher.
                                                          and Primal Magic (novice).
          allies to move into better positions                                                     You have mastered the thieving arts.
          during combat. You must use a minor          Primal magic has infused your body.         Novice: You have become very wary
          action to use this ability. For each         Novice: You gain AR equal to your         of traps. You get a +2 to all Perception
          point of your Cunning score, one ally       Magic score against environmental          tests to sense or find traps.


          52      Winter 2012
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
            Journeyman: When using any of            SKIRMISHER                                 Journeyman: When using the
          the following Dexterity focuses, you       Rogue Specialization                     skirmish stunt, the first 2 yards you
          can spend 1 SP to have the test take       Some fighters prefer to avoid stand-up   choose to move yourself costs 0 SP.
          half the time it would normally take:      fights. The skirmisher would rather      Moving your opponent and any
          Legerdemain, Lock Picking, Stealth,        use movement to gain an advantage or     further movement of yourself costs
          and Traps.                                 compromise his opponent.                 normal SP. You must generate stunt
            Master: You can use your Bluff                                                    points to use this ability.
          rogue power to distract a target            SkirmiSher TalenT                         Master: You have developed a hit-
          while you steal from his pockets or        Class: Rogue                             and-run combat style. If you choose
          purse. Use the power as written,           Requirement: You must have Dexterity     to move as a minor action and attack
          except instead of backstabbing the             and Perception 3 or higher.          as your major action in a single
          target, you get a +2 on any Dexterity        You have developed a stick-and-        round, you can move up to half your
          (Legerdemain) test made against that       move fighting style.                     Speed before making your attack,
          target in the same round.                    Novice: If you use a move action to    then move up to half your Speed
                                                     move at least half of your Speed in a    after the attack. This ability cannot
          marKsman                                   round, you gain a +1 to your Defense     be used as part of a charge.          Ω
          rogue speCialization                       until the beginning of your next turn.
          Expertise at ranged weapons can take
          years and years of practice for some.
          Others find themselves with natural,
          raw talent. A marksman is someone
          who can who can split an arrow with
          another or throw a dagger into a bull’s-
          eye while blindfolded.

           MARkSMAN TALENT
          Class: Rogue
          Requirement: You must have
              Dexterity and Perception 3 or
              better and either Archery Style
              (novice) or Thrown Weapon
              Style (novice).

            Your skills with ranged weapons are
          unsurpassed.
            Novice: You have learned how to
          hit the smallest of targets. When
          making a ranged attack, you can
          ignore up to -2 of cover penalties.
          This means you will suffer no
          penalties for attacking targets in
          light cover and only a -1 penalty for
          attacking targets in heavy cover.
            Journeyman: You know how to get
          the best out of your weapons. You can
          increase the short range of any missile
          weapon by 20% and the long range by
          30%. Round the new ranges up to the
          nearest even number.
            Master: You can do additional
          damage when taking careful aim at
          your target. When you hit with an
          attack immediately after taking the
          Aim action, you get an additional +2
          to your damage roll.



                                                                                                          Kobold Quarterly 20     53
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
       Kobold Diplomacy




          Bardic Charisma
            Meets Crunch and Chickens
               Interview of Christina Stiles
          By Jeremy L . C . Jones


          F
                  or Christina Stiles it all started   Campaign Setting.                           in school, even though I was an
                  with a pink box, her older             Below, Stiles and I talk about playing,   honor student. My mind always
                  brother, and some seriously          GMing, game writing, and editing.           floated to my characters and my
          deadly adventures. Now—years later—          One thread seems to run throughout          aspirations for them.
          she is a part-time freelance game writer     her work: gaming is fun.
          and editor with a long list of credits.      “Play. Enjoy. Don’t take yourselves         As a player, do you prefer combat
            Stiles has written, edited,                too seriously,” said Stiles, “and be        or role-playing?
          developed, or contributed to many            kind to your fellow gamers.”                Christina Stiles: Honestly, I enjoy
          game books, including Unhallowed               Not a bad way to go about life.           both. A good game provides a mix
          Halls, Assault on Stormbringer Castle,                                                   of those. When I play D&D, I
          SpirosBlaak, Black Sails Over Freeport,      How’d you get into playing RPGs?            enjoy bards, as I like the charismatic,
          Streets of Zobeck, Scion: Ragnarok,          Christina Stiles: My brother, who           diplomatic play they personify. (Yes,
          Faery’s Tale, the new Zobeck Gazetteer,      is five years older than I, brought         I’m the one they wrote that class for.)
          and the upcoming Rogue Mage RPG.             home a copy of the D&D boxed set            When I play games like Savage Worlds
          She’s freelanced for Atlas Games,            (the pink one) back when I was just         or RIFTS, I generally play warrior
          Eden Studios, Goodman Games,                 heading into 8th grade. Needing             types. But the role-playing aspect
          Green Ronin Publishing, Misfit               someone to run the game for, and            of the game always remains very
          Studios, Open Design, Troll Lord             playing on my little-sister worship         important to me.
          Games, and White Wolf Studios.               of him, he convinced me to be the
             “I enjoy adventure writing the            guinea pig.                                 How would you describe your
          most because adventuring is really              I remember rolling up one                GMing style?
          what the game is all about,” said            character after another, as most            Christina Stiles: Neurotic. Disor-
          Stiles. “I love the co-creation that         died quickly in his adventures. I           ganized. I’m not a very structured
          takes place at the gaming table when         had a penchant for playing thieves          person by nature. By the Myers-
          you run your scenario. You share             early on. They had names like               Briggs personality definition, I’m a
          your ideas and plot vision with the          Jumping Jack Flash and Mojo                 perceiver, someone always adapting
          players, giving them the seeds of            Rising. When he succeeded in                to the flow of things. Sometimes I
          a story, and they hand you back a            convincing a neighbor guy to join           amaze myself that I’ve been able to
          complete experience that is truly            us, we began an ongoing campaign            write or edit anything at all, let alone
          indicative of them only. No two              and graduated to AD&D. It was               the numerous projects I’ve completed
          groups playing the same adventure            then that my long-running wizard            over the years.
          ever give you back the same story.”          Bizzaro (yes, spelled with two                I’ve run a solo 3.5 campaign with
            Proving her first love lies in adventure   “z”s) was born. I later named my            my cousin for over a decade, and
          writing, Stiles recently penned several      first foray into publishing after           I’m always losing my notes. So these
          for Open Design: “Flesh Fails” and           him, Bizzaro Games—which,                   days, I get him to write up email
          the “Fish and the Rose” for Streets of       coincidentally, died as quick a death       recaps after we play. That works for
          Zobeck, “Beer Run!” and “Captured in         as my beginning characters right            me, especially as our time between
          the Cartways” for Kobold Quarterly,          after co-publishing Spiros Blaak            games is often several months due to
          “Truth Sunders” for Dark Deeds in            with Green Ronin Publishing.                scheduling problems.
          Freeport (a spring release), and “Beyond        After I started gaming, I found            Also, when I’m not playtesting
          the Ghostlight Reef ” for the Midgard        it hard to concentrate on anything          something, I have a tendency to


          54      Winter 2012
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
          wing an idea and just see where it
          goes. Sometimes great things come
          of that, especially in regard to future
          adventure ideas.
            When I GM at cons, though,
          I have my adventures and notes
          already in place. I usually run
          Castles & Crusades at such events,
          as the rules-light game makes it
          easier for me to concentrate on
          the story and to get the players
          involved. Of course, I’ve been
          playtesting Rogue Mage at several
          of the cons as well, and it is more
          rules heavy than C&C.

          Are there landmark moments                What was your first
          in your life as a player that were        gaming publication?
          points of no return on the road to        Christina Stiles: Although
          being a game writer?                      I collected many rejections
          Christina Stiles: I can’t really          from Dungeon magazine—
          pinpoint an instance where I said I       at least one from Wolfgang
          wanted to be a game writer. I was         [Baur], I might add—I
          an odd, fanciful kid who spent way        eventually did get the
          too much time alone because my            co-written “Jigsaw” (for Masque of
          two siblings were much older and          the Red Death) past the editorial
          generally did not want a kid tagging      staff. I had read “Is There an Elf in
          along with them. I filled my days by      the House?” by Daniel DeFazio and
          telling myself stories, and I devoured    Rafael Fay in an issue of Dungeon,
          books. When my brother introduced         and wrote the authors a letter to say
          me to gaming, I got the bug               how much I enjoyed the adventure,
          incredibly bad, much worse than he        which I had run for my cousin.
          ever did, in fact. I just couldn’t stop      Dan DeFazio and I struck up a
          thinking about gaming.                    conversation via snail mail, and we
             I do remember, however, that my        later pitched and wrote the “Jigsaw”
          brother once—unsuccessfully—sent          adventure together. It took a con-
          an article to Dragon magazine. I          siderable time, as we passed word-
          guess it made an impression on me,        processed (Brother word-processors,
          for I eventually decided to try my        not computers) manuscripts back
          hand at writing gaming material.          and forth through the mail; this was
                                                    before email became commonplace.
          What prompted you to switch from          Then we went through several edi-
          player to professional game writer?       tors at the magazine and dealt with
          Christina Stiles: It hasn’t been so       a time delay while TSR had some
          much a shift, really, because I’m         ongoing in-house issues. It eventu-
          still a player and always will be.        ally came out in Dungeon #61, my
          I’m taking my dice with me to the         first and only appearance in that
          retirement home, thank you very           magazine. To this day, I regret hav-
          much! But basically, my love of           ing given up on querying them.
          tabletop roleplaying games—I have            “Jigsaw” was also my first stab
          no interest in other types of games       at full project collaboration, and
          for some odd reason—and my desire         I enjoyed the back-and-forth
          to do something creative have kept        experience of it, so I also learned
          me consistently typing away for over      I like collaborating from the
          a decade now.                             experience. To this day, I often seek


                                                                                            Kobold Quarterly 20   55
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
       Kobold Diplomacy


          out collaborators, and it’s one of the   with Open Design, in fact, has been        from titles alone—although I had
          reasons I thoroughly enjoy Open          along those lines.                         to put some bones on them for the
          Design’s projects. (By the way, Dan,                                                pitches to win their contracts. For
          if you are out there anywhere, I’d   What does an adventure need to                 the most part, I’m a “pantser” (as
          love to say hello.                                do? What are the                  in, “fly by the seat of my pants”)
          Drop me a line.)                                  main ingredients?                 when it comes to adventure
             On a side note:        Don’t be afraid         How do you go                     writing. That’s one of the reasons
                                                            about building one?
          Someone sent a letter     to try, and be                                            pitching doesn’t come naturally to
          to Dungeon claiming                                       Christina Stiles: An      me; I don’t have all the details in
          that Sigmund Freud,       persistent. If                  adventure needs to        mind before I sprint to the finish
          whom PCs encounter        you dream of                    be fun for both the       line. I don’t think that fact spoils
          discussing dreams at a                                    GM and the players.       the enjoyment, however. It’s just
          party in the “Jigsaw”
                                    getting something               I try to create           my approach. I’m more outline-
          adventure, was never      published, and you              experiences or events     driven and linear when I’m writing
          concerned with the                                                                  sourcebook material.
          study of dreams. I had
                                    are willing to hone             that will keep the
                                                                    gamers talking about
          just finished reading     your craft, you will            them long after           What role did you play in the
                                                                                              creation of Faery’s tale?
          Freud’s The Interpreta-   eventually see your             they’ve left the table.
          tion of Dreams in a                                       Sometimes I do this       Christina Stiles: I’m so thankful to
          college class when I      words in print.                 with an unusual           have been a part of a game targeted
          added it to the adven-                                    monster (like             to creating our next generation
          ture, so I truly know that he did! I     gingerbread golems and taunters            of gamers. I contributed to the
          never did write to the magazine to       in the “Tymon’s Taunting Tower,”           Game Mastering information,
          rebut that letter, so I’m taking the     a free PDF given to Kobold                 rules tweaking, and the monsters,
          opportunity to do so now!                Quarterly subscribers in 2011), a          specifically.
                                                   villain who refuses to die (the storm         I had also written an adventure,
          When did you get serious about           giantess in my adventures Assault          but for some reason, Patrick
          writing gaming material?                 on Stormbringer Castle and the             Sweeney, the project’s publisher
          Christina Stiles: Not until the          Stormbringer Juggernaut), or a garish      and lead writer, decided he wanted
          advent of the Open Gaming                magical item (like the painting in         to use an adventure from some
          License and third edition. I had         “The Fish and the Rose” in Streets of      relatively unknown designer
          been active on Ryan Dancy’s d20          Zobeck).                                   named Robin D. Laws (said very
          listserv, and I was able to get my          In “Captured in the Cartways”           much tongue-in-cheek). Go figure.
          foot in the door with John Nephew        in this issue, the PCs must deal           My adventure was never published,
          at Atlas Games. I wrote Unhallowed       with a kyton in her chain-covered          nor was the Faery’s Tale Bestiary I
          Halls for them and edited                lair, and it should be a memorable         had completed for the game.
          Uncommon Character. I got in with        a fight, even though it’s a short             Anyway, the game generated a lot
          Eden Studios, too—sometime               adventure. My hope is the players          of good feedback. People seemed to
          around then—by responding to             go away saying, “Man, that was             like it, and gamers nominated it for
          their need for playtesters. I later      hell! Those barghests are going to         an Origins Award twice: once with
          wrote entries for the Liber Bestarius.   pay for putting us through that!”          Firefly Games, and then with Green
                                                   Meanwhile, the GM smiles and               Ronin (the Deluxe version). We
          As a designer, do you prefer writing     chuckles, knowing her players are          designed the game with the thought
          crunch or flavor text?                   now deeply engaged in the Zobeck           that kids of a certain age would
          Christina Stiles: Hmm. That’s            setting, and they’ve just given her a      eventually be able to run their own
          a tough question for me. I can           revenge adventure to plan.                 games without their parents. We
          and have written both. Now,                 My adventures are basically born        succeeded at that. I know so, because
          whether I’ve succeeded at both,          from a villain idea or a title. The        I’ve witnessed it firsthand. Just a few
          you’d have to judge for yourself.        only map-driven adventure I’ve             years ago, in fact, the then nine-
          But I’ve written setting material,       done was “Beer Run!” in KQ #16,            year-old daughter of Clint Black
          NPCs, new feats, skills, magic           as Wolfgang had a map and no               (Pinnacle Entertainment Group’s
          items, classes, rules, monsters, etc.    adventure, and I volunteered to            Brand Manager) and Jodi Black
          That being said, I’d have to say         write him a short one in a week.           (freelance editor) ran it for several
          I’m most passionate about writing        My Open Design adventures “Flesh           adults at a local convention. I was so
          adventures. A lot of my recent work      Fails” and “Truth Sunders” came            proud! Their daughter still runs the


          56      Winter 2012
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
          game at cons. That’s
          exactly what we had
          in mind: kids running
          their own games.

          Have things changed
          much since you
          started out?
          Christina Stiles:
          What has changed for
          me? Not much. The
          publishing venues to
          sell to have certainly
          changed, but they still
          exist. I still play games
          when the opportunities
          arise, and I playtest my
          adventures with my crew, as I don’t
          ever intend to design in a vacuum.
             If you mean what fame have I
          gained, well there hasn’t been much       the people with whom you
          of that for me. For the most part,        work. For instance, I made
          I feel I’ve been a stealth freelancer     fast friends with Spike Y Jones
          this whole time. Whenever someone         (editor extraordinaire) and Steven       well as Streets did. Ben also has
          does recognize my name from               Trustrum (now president of Misfit        an excellent grasp of the art of
          something, it always floors me. I still   Studios) after working with them         pitching, and I’m learning more
          remember sitting in a White Wolf          on Uncommon Character. I similarly       about it from him every day. It’s
          seminar at Origins one year and           clicked with Ben McFarland after         an important tool to know in
          Will Hindmarch (now with Green            working under his lead on Streets        today’s freelancing market, as the
          Ronin) was handing out papers             of Zobeck. Ben is a definite up-and-     open call options that fed the d20
          and read my name off my badge.            coming designer. Seriously, keep an      movement in my starting days just
          He turned to his panelists and said       eye of this guy, folks.                  aren’t there now; so, freelancers
          something like: “Hey, Christina              Also, I’d like to think I’ve wormed   have to convince a publisher to
          Stiles is here! Wow. Do you guys          my way into Wolfgang’s good              print something.
          know Christina Stiles?” Nobody            graces. He responds to my numerous
          else did, of course. Bless you, Will!     emails, at least. That’s a good sign,    What are the worst parts of being a
          I guess he had remembered my              right?                                   freelance designer?
          Unhallowed Halls adventure from his                                                Christina Stiles: The worst part?
          days at Atlas.                            What is it that you admire about         The products you invest a lot of
             Other than that, I do occasionally     Ben McFarland and his work?              time into that never see the light of
          get asked to be a gaming guest at cons    Christina Stiles: One of the best        day. I’ve had a few of those over the
          in North Carolina, South Carolina         things about being a pitching-level      years, possibly a handful.
          (my home state), and Virginia. When       patron on Streets of Zobeck was             There’s also the fact that it is time-
          I can afford to attend, I accept the      working with Ben McFarland. He           consuming work that often takes
          invites and run games.                    sees both the details and the big-       you away from family and friends.
                                                    picture structure of a project very      My parents are both deceased now,
          All in all, what’re the best parts        well, and his pacing was just right,     and sometimes I wish I had spent
          about being a freelance game              allowing us good maneuvering room        a few more weekends with them,
          writer?                                   for participation. He worked very        just did a lot more with them. And
          Christina Stiles: The best part is        hard to help the new writers on his      then there’s the dealing with the
          holding a book in your hands with         project succeed, and I admire that.      inevitable life hiccups that keep you
          your name on it. I still get giddy           And, of course, he’s a very good      from finishing projects in a timely
          when I receive my contributor’s           writer and developer in his own          manner or at all.
          copies. The second best thing             right. I hope my Journeys to the            But when family members die,
          is making fast friendships with           West project goes at least half as       or you have to take care of an aging


                                                                                                          Kobold Quarterly 20            57
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
       Kobold Diplomacy


          parent, or you have to deal with           I can grasp the big picture, but I         back through the manuscript
          your own health problems, writing          can also see the small details. I have     again to make those changes and
          just does not take priority. That’s the    a good grounding in English, and           catch other mistakes. I also send
          unfortunate reality of it. You just have   I endeavor to ensure that provided         questions back to the author and
          to communicate with your developer         rules make sense. Some writers             input the responses, or have the
          and make other arrangements when           I’ve edited may call me anal after         writer input the responses into
          life hands you such piles of crap.         working with me, but I like to delve       the edited text. That’s my process
                                                                     into the why and           in a nutshell.
          How’d you get                                               how of things until I
          into editing?                                               can make them clear       What is it you admire about Spike
          Christina                                                    to readers.              Y Jones as an editor?
          Stiles: My                                                    Overall, what           Christina Stiles: Spike is one
          editing career                                                I most enjoy            of the most thorough, analytical
          started practically                                            about editing is       editors I’ve ever had the pleasure of
          in tandem with                                                 hammering a            working with, and he’s an ever-full
          my d20 writing                                                  manuscript into       font of knowledge. I think he has at
          career. I think Atlas                                            shape, making        least 10 ranks in every skill known
          Games’ Uncommon                                                   sure it’s clear     to mankind, and his Knowledge
          Character NPC                                                      and linear.        (religion) is off the charts. He was
          book was my first                                                  My proofing        the perfect guy for editing the Faith
          editing gig, but                                                    is okay. I        Hunter Rogue Mage game (Misfit
          Eden Studios asked                                                   firmly believe   Studios) for that reason alone.
          me to edit for the                                                    everyone        Spike and I have known each other
          WitchCraft line,                                                       needs good     for over a decade now, and we’ve
          starting with The                                                 proofreaders.       worked together for much of that
          Book of Hod, and then                          I don’t care who you are,              time. We just have a great rapport.
          Waysides, which was        never           errors and typos will get by you.          The fact I’m able to drag him so
          published, and one or two other            The internet complaints I read             easily into most of my personal
          things along the way.                      about typos and errors slipping            projects just shows he has a low
                                                     through in manuscripts from                Wisdom attribute.
          What sort of editor are you? Not           companies both big and small                 Spike is my all-time favorite edi-
          just what do you edit but how do           bother me. With the nature of              tor. (Do most people even have a
          you go about it?                           release schedules, it’s just going         favorite editor?) He’s a superhero:
          Christina Stiles: First, please            to happen. Even the companies              the Red-Ink Avenger!
          note that at no point did I set            with a stable of editors will have
          out to become an editor. I’m not           this problem, and I know they are          If Spike Y Jones is your all-time
          the English major who came out             certainly doing everything within          favorite editor superhero, then who
          of college with a burning desire           their power to catch everything.           is your all-time favorite designer
          to wrangle words and correct                                                          superhero?
          everyone’s grammar. Nope, my               Do you have any firm and fast rules        Christina Stiles: That’s easy. My
          undergraduate college background           of editing?                                all-time favorite designer superhero
          is in philosophy and religious             Christina Stiles: I don’t have any         actually writes superhero games:
          studies—though I later added a             hard-and-fast editing rules. I always      Steve Kenson. I honestly think
          master’s degree in liberal arts with       say I’m going to read a manuscript         he’s a genius—and he didn’t even
          a concentration in writing and             through to its entirety before I start     pay me to say that. I loved his d20
          briefly taught college freshman            editing, but I invariably can’t wait.      work, his Blue Rose and True20
          composition.                               I prefer working with the raw text         game design, and his magnum opus
             That said, when companies started       rather than being given a layout           (to date), Mutants & Masterminds.
          offering me editing jobs, I accepted       product in print to fix and return,        I even used the OGL from the
          them. When my editing credits              which makes it hard to ensure              second edition of the latter as the
          started piling up, I added editor to       requested changes get made, but I’ve       basis of my upcoming Rogue Mage
          my freelancing abilities. My editing       done those.                                game, with a few tweaks to suit my
          style? I’m analytical by nature (Virgo        Anyway, I take notes along the          subject matter, of course. (Editor's
          here), doing data crunching for a          way of changes I need to make              Note: Kenson was interviewed on the
          living, so I tend to question things.      to earlier things, and then I go           Kobold Quarterly blog.)


          58      Winter 2012
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
            I will buy anything with Steve’s     in his game of preference—Savage          running it!), and some hilarity
          name attached. I love how he’s         Worlds—was playing an earth               also ensued.
          able to see the possibilities in a     neomage character (basically, a
          system and improve them, turning       wizard). One of the other players         Any parting words of wisdom,
          them into something much cooler.       was just being totally annoying           warning, or mischief miscellany for
          I have nothing but pure love for       with her character, to the point of       aspiring game designers out there?
          Steve’s work.                          attacking other party members.            Christina Stiles: Don’t be afraid to
                                                 Heath calmly passed me a note, “I         try, and be persistent. If you dream
          Tell me about the rogue Mage           cast a sleep conjure on her.”             of getting something published, and
          RPG.                                      As the day progressed, the             you are willing to hone your craft,
          Christina Stiles: Rogue Mage is        offending player grew even more           you will eventually see your words
          based on Faith Hunter’s post-apoca-    loud and problematic. Heath’s             in print. I can’t tout Open Design
          lyptic Rogue Mage novels (Bloodring,   neomage tried to bury her with a          enough as being a great avenue for
          Seraphs, and Host). Faith is best      shape earth conjure, but another          beginning writers, whether via the
          known for her New York Times best-     character foiled the assassination        open projects or Kobold Quarterly.
          selling Skinwalker novels, which she   attempt. Adamant that this                Although you pay to participate
          wrote after the Rogue Mage ones.       particular player character would         in the projects, you can easily gain
             The game uses open gaming           die, Heath’s triumph came in the          a return on your investment (at
          material from Mutants &                game’s final scene. Using the same        the senior patron level) by earning
          Masterminds second edition.            earth spell as before, he collapsed       writing contracts.
          In the near-future earth setting,      the road out from under the                  Heck, even getting something
          seraphs have visited several plagues   character’s deuce and a half and          of yours accepted just for the
          upon the earth, fulfilling some        plunged the character over a cliff        writing credit is a win. The more
          biblical prophecy, but the plagues     and into the icy earth far below.         it happens, the more your name
          have twisted some of the humans        This was hilarious because it was         becomes recognizable to those in
          into neomages, individuals who         Heath, a guy who never plays              publishing positions. Wolfgang
          can control creation energy. The       aggressive characters, and he was         is quick to remind patrons that
          world is in the throes of a mini       hell-bent on killing this character.      Brandon Hodge and Adam Daigle,
          ice age, and while the civilizations   None of us had ever seen him so           both Paizo writers now, got their
          struggle to rebuild, the battle        fixated on a villain’s death, let alone   start with Open Design. One day,
          between light and darkness rages       a party member’s.                         he’ll tell everyone he rediscovered
          all around them.                          Then there was the playtest of         Christina Stiles.
             Oddly enough, the game’s main       “Beyond the Ghostlight Reef,” an             Lastly, once you get a contract,
          authors are all women: Faith           upcoming Open Design adventure            take direction from your devel-
          Hunter, Raven Blackwell, and me.       (Editor: Due for a Spring release).       oper and/or editor. Be willing to
          Spike Y Jones, the editor, did write   I had recently moved, and I had           learn from others, and always keep
          some additional material for the       misplaced all my miniatures.              an open line of communication.
          game. This has been a project that     Heath happened to have a few              Dropping off the face of the world
          has taken us over four years to pull   that he was using to run a module         when you realize you’ve taken on
          together, and I’m hoping it brings     called “Chickens in the Mist.” He         something you can’t complete is
          readers into gaming and gamers to      some odd-shaped beings we used            the worst thing to do, ever! It’s
          Faith’s novels. The game includes      for the characters and many, many         better to let someone know you
          new fiction from Faith. We already     large chickens, which became the          can’t meet the deadline or finish
          have the majority of text written      other monsters.                           the project. Publishers still have
          for the Rogue Mage Game Master’s          I had just introduced a                products to get out, whether you
          Guide and will likely do it as a       character named Dark Willy, and           can meet your obligations or not.
          Kickstarter project.                   now we had chickens. Needless             Keep that in mind.                   Ω
                                                 to say, many off-color jokes
          Care to share any funny anecdotes      followed. Actually, the jokes
          from the gaming table?                 started with Dark Willy, which
          Christina Stiles: Recently, while      was actually my intention, but the
          running Rogue Mage at MACE:            chickens just added to the game’s
          West in early 2011, Heath Medlin,      colorful flavor. I understand the
          one of my most easygoing, patient      adventure debuted at PaizoCon
          gamer friends who is Savage only       2011 (thanks, Jim Groves, for


                                                                                                       Kobold Quarterly 20      59
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
       The Bardic Arts




          The Bardic Arts
          By Aaron Infante-Levy
          Art by Hablot Knight Browne




                                                       Benefit: You always receive free


          R
                   ogues may be masters of skill         room and board at familiar
                   and wizards masters of the            taverns, and the local
                   arcane, but few characters can        patrons often come to
                                                         your aid in bar fights.
          match the bard’s social cunning and            When spending
          savoir faire. Whether seducing a foreign       time at a tavern,
          dignitary at court or rabble-rousing           you may attempt
          at the tavern, the bard excels at these        to carouse, making
                                                         a saving throw with
          interactions like no other class. To help      a +2 bonus. Failure
          your bardic characters achieve this            means you succumb to
          social artistry, this article presents the     drunkenness, and the GM
          Bardic Arts, an additional feature for         provides a suitable awkward
                                                         plot complication or a new
          the 4th Edition bard class.                    enemy. On a success, you gain
                                                         something helpful to your current               undefined until you come to a
          new Class Feature:                             adventure (using the roll results               point in the adventure when you
           the BardiC arts                               detailed below):                                really need a particular item.
          Whether trained at a bardic college,         10-14 Songs & Lore: You’ve learned                Then, you just happen to have
                                                              new drinking songs and ribald              the perfect thing, and a funny
          apprenticed with a traveling master, or             limericks from a culture, race,            story to go with it!
          self-educated, you practice the time-               or social strata featuring           You may receive only one benefit
          honored artistic traditions of the bard.            prominently in your current            from the Carousing art during an
                                                              adventure. Whenever you                adventure.
                                                              confront antagonistic members
          At 1st level, you gain 2 of the following           of that group, you may use what
          bardic arts of your choice. You gain an             you’ve learned to defuse hostility   ChroniCling
          additional bardic art at 4th level and              and parlay. You may use this         After every adventure your party faces,
          another at 8th level.                               song only once in this way.          you take pen to paper, recording those
                                                       15-19 Hireling: Whether acquired at
                                                              the gambling table or after a
                                                                                                   deeds of valor and glory (with a fine
          Cantrip study                                       night of heavy drinking, you gain    editing hand). Perhaps someday you’ll
          You’ve delved more into the wizardly arts           a free hireling for the rest of      publish your masterpiece, but for now,
          than other bards, relying on simple magic           your current adventure. Kobold       writing down your exploits helps your
                                                              Quarterly #17 describes sample
          tricks to illustrate your storytelling.             henchmen and hirelings.
                                                                                                   storytelling abilities.
          Benefit: Choose two cantrips from                                                        Benefit: While in any settlement directly
            those available to wizards.                20+ Gift: You gain a critically helpful       helped by your party’s successful
                                                              gift useable during your current       deeds, your allies gain +2 to Bluff,
                                                              adventure. The gift may be a           Diplomacy, and Intimidate checks.
          Carousing                                           one-time use magical item (like
                                                              a potion or a one-charge wand—
          You can drink dwarves under the table               subject to the GM’s approval),       etiquette
          and make eladrin smile. Tavern-keepers              or it may be information, such       Accustomed to the critical eye of court,
          know you by name, and you’re hard                   as the sigil combination for a       you are versed in the social customs
          pressed to find a watering hole that                teleportation circle, a discovered   of various nations, including proper
                                                              map, or the means to bypass
          doesn’t welcome your song and wit.                  a trap. You may leave the gift       forms of address, the polite technique


          60      Winter 2012
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
                                                        +5 bonus to Bluff checks to pose as
          of agreeably disagreeing, the etiquette       an alternate identity. Depending on
          of introducing new people to court,           the nature of your alternate identity,     The GM might include Bardic
          and so forth. In your presence, even the      you might have diplomatic immunity,       Arts as a straight addition to the
          most tactless half-orc may be treated         access to military intelligence,          bard class, or might allow it to
                                                        privileges of nobility, or some other     replace Bardic Ritual Casting. In
          with respect and gain the ear of kings.       benefit while “in disguise.”
          Benefit: When you succeed a                                                             this case, Bardic Ritual Casting
            Diplomacy check, you reduce the DC                                                    could then become an option as
            of all subsequent Diplomacy checks
                                                      polyglot                                    one of the arts.
            with the same NPC by 2 for your           You have an intuitive understanding
            allies until the end of the encounter.    of the cadence and meaning of the
            In addition, the first time you succeed   spoken word, and you have a seemingly      conspiracies in a matter of minutes.
            at a Diplomacy check in a skill
            challenge, you gain an extra success.
                                                      supernatural ability to bridge language    The slightest glance or change in
                                                      barriers.                                  attitude provides enough fodder for
          Friends in low plaCes                       Benefit: You always understand             you to read gathered company like an
                                                        the gist of a foreign speaker’s
          You have associations you’d prefer your      conversation (“the keep is under
                                                                                                 open book.
          party didn’t know about – marginal                                                     Benefit: Gain +2 on Insight checks.
                                                       attack”), though not the fine details
                                                                                                  You can make an Insight check
          “friends” connected to the pulse of the      (“fire giants are smashing in its
                                                                                                  without the bonus (GM determines
          city and the underworld.                     gates”). In addition, you may learn
                                                                                                  the DC) to study the palette of
          Benefit: Streetwise checks never             two extra languages of your choice.
                                                                                                  interactions between all NPCs
            take you longer than 5 minutes.                                                       present. If your check succeeds,
            In addition, when in a familiar                                                       you learn the rough nature of
            settlement, you can call in a favor       seduCtion                                   relationships between those
            with a Streetwise check once per          There are charming bards, and then          present, notice any innuendo or
            day; the GM sets the check’s DC           there is you, a master of seduction with    conversational undercurrents, and
            according to the nature of the favor.                                                 get a read on recent developments
            If successful, you gain aid in the form
                                                      all the right moves. You bed nobles,
                                                                                                  or changes in goals or allegiance. Ω
            of maps and guard routes, secret          commoners, villains, and heroes, with
            doors, a hidden flophouse, legal aid,     ease. Sometimes you do so just for the
            forged permits, and so forth.             pleasure, but other times, you have
                                                      alternative motives.
          insult dueling                              Benefit: You can make a Bluff
                                                        check versus a DC equal to
          Few traditions are as venerable               their Insight check (modified by
          among bards as the duel of wits.              the circumstances) to seduce
          Whether it be trading barbs with              members of a favorable sex.
          a haughty noble over drawn                    If you succeed, choose one of
                                                        these advantages:
          swords, or viciously taunting an
                                                      •    Learn the target: Treat
          evil mastermind, you’ve wield your               your Bluff check result as a
          mockery like a finely edged blade.               monster knowledge check
          Benefit: After defeating an intelligent          against the NPC. With the
           enemy with whom you’ve been insult              GM’s permission, you gather
           dueling, you may make a demand of               blackmail material.
           the NPC as a condition of peaceful         •    Intimacy: You gain intimate
           surrender, and the enemy agrees                 contact with the NPC, keeping
           to follow your terms as long as it              him or her occupied for
           abides with his nature. Possible                several hours. Attacking your
           demands may include acting as                   partner after your rendezvous
           your temporary guide, giving you                may provide you the upper
           the password or other information,              hand, as the target is likely
           surrendering his treasure, providing            surprised, unarmed, prone,
           a false alibi, or anything else the GM          or even helpless, at the GM’s
           deems appropriate.                              discretion. This betrayal is
                                                           likely an evil act.
          Master oF disguise                          •    Sway: Convince the NPC to
          Jilted lovers, angry lords, vicious              take an action to gain your
          debtors, and tenacious guardsmen–                favor, though this action
                                                           must be something morally
          all good reasons to learn the art of
                                                           acceptable to the character.
          disguise! You have several alternate
          identities complete with clothes,           student oF huMan nature
          contacts, and documentation.                By observing the subtleties of body
          Benefit: You have a number of               language and conversation, you
            alternate identities equal to your
            Charisma modifier, and you gain a
                                                      can ascertain even deeply hidden


                                                                                                            Kobold Quarterly 20        61
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
       Ask the Kobold




          Ask the Kobold
               Poison and Disease
          By Skip Williams


          Just what goes on when a                       You’re exposed to a poison
          character is poisoned? What’s                when certain kinds of game
          the deal with the initial and                events occur. Different poisons
          secondary damage ratings                     have different modes of exposure:
          for a poison? When are these
          supposed to occur? If you                    injury
          make a successful saving throw               The toxin is applied to a manufactured
          against a poison attack, do all              weapon (usually a slashing or piercing
          the poison’s effects cease? If               weapon) or carried in a natural
          you fail a saving throw against              weapon, such as a bite or stinger.
          a poison attack and you later                You’re exposed to an injury poison
          have the poison neutralized                  when a foe successfully deals damage
          (with a neutralize poison spell              to you with a toxin-applied weapon.
          for example), are all the poison’s           A special quality that negates all the
          effects removed?                             damage from the attack, such as
                                                       damage reduction, protects you from
          A player character exposed to a poison       the toxin.
          must immediately attempt a Fortitude           Using a weapon to deliver poison
          save. If the save fails, the PC suffers      to a foe carries some peril. You have
          the poison’s initial damage or effects       a 5% chance to expose yourself to
          (usually ability damage).                    a poison whenever you apply it to a
            If the poison has a secondary damage       weapon. Also, if you roll a 1 on an
          rating—and most do—the exposed               attack roll with a poisoned weapon,
          PC must attempt a second Fortitude           you must attempt a DC 15 Reflex
          save one minute later, even if the initial   save or accidentally poison yourself
          Fortitude save succeeded. The second         with the weapon. This special Reflex
          save represents the toxin’s dispersion       save replaces the Fortitude save you’d    generally does not protect you against
          through the character’s body and its         normally make against the toxin’s         contact poison. People tend to touch
          destruction of internal tissues or its       initial effects. One minute later         their own bodies—especially the face—
          disruption of certain bodily functions.      you must attempt a second save—           amazingly often.
          A PC may well shrug off a toxin’s initial    Fortitude this time—against the toxin’s
          effects only to succumb to the toxin’s       secondary effects.                        ingested
          secondary effects later.                                                               The toxin is added to something
            If a poison has ongoing effects,           ContaCt                                   edible or drinkable. If you eat or
          such as sleep or paralysis, a neutralize     The toxin is applied to an object,        drink the tainted food or drink, you’re
          poison spell ends those effects when it      usually either something small and        exposed to the toxin. In most cases,
          eliminates the toxin from your system.       portable (such as a coin or piece of      one taste is all that’s required for
          Instantaneous effects from a poison          jewelry) or to a closure (such as a       exposure. The DM, however, might
          (such as damage, ability damage, or          doorknob or a container’s lid). You’re    require a larger volume of food or
          ability drain) remain even after a toxin     exposed to the toxin if you touch the     drink before you accumulate a big
          has been neutralized.                        treated object. Wearing gloves or armor   enough dose to become exposed.


          62      Winter 2012
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
          inhaled                                           exposed to a disease, you attempt
          The toxin is suspended in the air.                a Fortitude save to overcome the                 Poison, Disease, and
          It could be a gas that permeates the              infection. Unlike a poison, a successful           Ability Damage
          air in a chamber or it might reside               save at the time of exposure negates
          in dust that creatures kick up as                 the entire disease.                              Poisons and diseases inspire serious
                                                                                                             dread in the real world, and we
          they move around. You’re exposed                    If the initial save fails, a disease
                                                                                                             designers wanted the game to reflect
          when you breathe the tainted air.                 has no immediate effects. Instead,               that fear. Poison and disease also
          One breath usually is enough for                  a disease has an incubation period               traditionally served as great equalizers
          exposure, but the DM might require                (usually a few days). Once the                   in the game, striking down PCs of
          a longer period of time, as noted for             incubation period expires, the                   any level. The designers also decided
          ingested poisons.                                 diseased character suffers the                   to preserve that.
            PCs often try to avoid inhaled toxins           effects of the disease (usually ability             Advancing characters have an
          by breathing through a cloth or merely            damage). On each subsequent day of               ever-expanding pool of hit points,
          placing a hand over the face. These               the incubation period, the diseased              and although the game allows
          tricks aren’t too effective, though the           character risks the effects of the               characters to improve their ability
          DM has the final say. Usually, the best           disease again. The character can                 scores as they level up, these ability
          you can hope for is a bonus on your               attempt a new Fortitude save each                advancements do not progress
                                                                                                             nearly so quickly as their increase
          Fortitude save.                                   day to avoid the additional effects.
                                                                                                             in hit points. This fact gave us
                                                            For most diseases, successful saving             the perfect opportunity to model
          How is a disease supposed to work?                throws on two consecutive days allow             a character’s swift decline via the
          Disease in the game works much like               the character to defeat the disease.             onset of a disease or toxin. It also
          poison—with a few notable exceptions.             Some supernatural diseases don’t                 allowed us to deal a severe blow
            Diseases have the same modes of                 allow you to get better—you need                 to a character without taking the
          exposure as poisons. When you’re                  magical help to get over them.         Ω         character out of immediate play.




                                 TM




      presenTs




        Pack Some extra Punch
     Designed by Stefen Styrsky and developed by                                                 This "- page volume contains:
     Sigfried Trent and Wolfgang Baur, Divine Favor:                                             • Alternate class abilities
     the Paladin gives an in-depth exploration of                                                • Archetypes such as Heavenly Beacon,
     the paladin class and useful advice on making the                                             Holy Sword, Questing Knight and Templar
     most of it.
                                                                                                 • Codes of Conduct and associated spells
     The Paladin is the first volume in the Divine                                               • Historical inspirations
     Favor series, which expands the options available
     to sacred PCs: Cleric, Druid, Paladin, Inquisitor                                           • How to deliver a truly earth-shaking smite!
     and Oracle.                                                                                 Pick up The Paladin today and start smiting!

                                          Available Now at koboldquarterly.com
                                                          Open Design is a trademark of Open Design LLC.
                           Pathfinder and associated marks and logos are trademarks of Paizo Publishing, LLC, and are used under license.
                                       See paizo.com/pathfinderRPG for more information on the Pathfinder Roleplaying Game.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
       Small Spirits




          Small Spirits
               5 Nature Spirits for Any Campaign
          By Matthew J . Hanson
          Art by Rick Hershey




          P
                  rimal nature spirits all too often                                                 must consult the Ancient Turtle to find
                  go unseen. While the most            anCient turtle                                the dragon’s lair and end its threat.
                  powerful of these spirits embody     The Ancient Turtle dwells in the heart
          tremendous forces of nature—and              of the swamp. She has grown to an             Boon
          their powers may rival the gods—most         enormous size and resembles a steep           The Ancient Turtle grants its boon to
          spirits operate on a much smaller scale.     hill to those who do not know what            those who demonstrate the utmost
          The spirit of the local forest might have    to look for. The Turtle always speaks         patience and an ability to think long
          great power within the woods, but it         slowly and thoughtfully. To mortals           term.
          can do little beyond its borders. This       she sometimes seems to trail off mid-
          article presents five small spirits that     sentence, but she is only pausing, either      ANCIENT TURTLE’S              LEVEL 8
          drop easily into any campaign.               for effect or to catch her breath. She is       SHELL (4E)                 UNCOMMON
                                                       also prone to rambling tangents that          The turtle lends you a portion of its
          CommuniCating with spirits                   most would consider unrelated to the            impenetrable shell to protect you
          How player characters (PCs)                  question at hand, though in her mind            from harm.
                                                                                                     Price: 3,400 gp
          communicate with spirits can vary            the connections are obvious.
          tremendously between campaigns                 For the patient, the Ancient Turtle         Primal Boon
          and even within campaign worlds.             provides a wealth of information              Property: If an enemy pushes, pulls,
                                                                                                       or slides you, you may reduce the
          Contacting and negotiating with a            about the swamp and its creatures.              forced movement by 1.
          field spirits might be as simple as          Her memory is long, and she shares            Power (Daily): Immediate Interrupt.
          walking into a row of wheat and saying       knowledge freely, provided that her             Trigger: An enemy hits you. Effect:
          its name or as complex as awaiting a         audience stays long enough to listen.           You gain a +4 bonus to all defenses
                                                                                                       against the triggering attack. Special:
          certain date or astronomical event and         The Ancient Turtle cares about her
                                                                                                       If you have an animal or spirit
          performing a ritual such as commune          swamp realm. She works to protect it            companion, you may also use this
          with nature.                                 from major disturbances, but she also           power to protect your companion.
            As a simple rule, if spirits are easy to   believes nature always prevails in the end.
          locate and contact, they can perform         People might drain the swamp or build          ANCIENT TURTLE’S SHELL
          useful but not terribly powerful services    over it, but their lives are fleeting. When     (PATHFINDER RPG)
          for the PCs. If the spirits are harder to    they are gone, the swamp will return.         Aura faint abjuration; CL 5th
          reach, they should be commensurately                                                       Slot —; Price 9,000; Weight —
          more powerful or crucial to the story.       adventure hooks                               DESCRIPTION
                                                       A circle of once-sacred stones has been       The boon grants a +1 enhancement
                                                                                                       bonus to natural armor. Once per
          primal Boons                                 corrupted and spawns undead from                day, when the recipient of the boon
          Each spirit in this article includes a       those who die nearby and corrupts               is hit by an attack, she can activate
          primal boon. These boons function            benign plants into evil, aggressive flora.      the Ancient Turtle’s Shell to give
          like magic items, except they have           The Ancient Turtle asks the PCs to              herself a +4 AC bonus against that
                                                                                                       attack. If the recipient has an animal
          no physical form and do not take up          visit the stones and perform a purifying        companion, she can instead grant the
          an item slot. Boons cannot be sold,          ritual.                                         bonus to her companion.
          transferred, or created by mortal              A black dragon has taken up
          magic. The boons include a gold              residence in the swamp and is                 laughing maidens
          piece value for comparisons and              organizing the local lizardfolk to raid       The Laughing Maidens are a trio
          judging PC wealth.                           nearby human settlements. The PCs             of spirits who inhabit an important


          64      Winter 2012
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
                                                        to Athletics checks to swim, and on
          river. The easiest way to attract their       a successful check, you swim your          separated, and only one came out. The
          attention is to offer them praise and         speed (rather than half your speed).       other two are trapped, and the quickest
          small gifts like bouquets of wild flowers     Level 8: +4 bonus to Athletics checks.     way to find them is to commune with
          or jars of honey.                           Power (Daily): Minor Action. Attack:         the Lurker. It could tell the PCs exactly
            The Maidens resemble three young            Intelligence +3, Wisdom +3, or             where the children are, but instead it
                                                        Charisma +3 vs. Will.
          human or elven women made of                  Hit: The target is dazed (save ends).
                                                                                                   toys with them, offering them vague
          rippling water, and they flow in and                                                     hints and cryptic rhymes.
          out of the river as they speak. Though       MAIDENS’ LAUGHTER
          they act capricious and flighty, they         (PATHFINDER RPG)                           Boon
          have keen intellects and long memories.     Aura weak enchantment; CL 1st                The Lurker in the Caves seems to bestow
          Their sharp senses of humor leads them      Slot —; Price 1,200; Weight —                is blessing on those who have suffered in
          to frequently play tricks on those who      DESCRIPTION                                  the dark but lived to tell the tale.
          displease them, but mortals who endure      The recipient of the boon gains a +2
                                                        competence bonus to Swim checks,
          the pranks with good humor can earn           and on a successful check, she can
                                                                                                    LURkER ’S EyES (4E)             LEVEL 8
          the Maidens’ respect and aid.                 move her full speed (as a full-round                                    UNCOMMON
            As the Laughing Maidens travel the          action) or half her speed (as a move       Even though you cannot see through
          length of their river, they pick up many      action). Once per day the character          the pitch darkness, you know your
                                                        can use hideous laughter (Will               blows strike true.
          stories and rumors from travelers. This       save negates, DC is 11 + Charisma             Level 8           3,400 gp
          supplements their innate knowledge of         modifier).
          their river.                                                                             Primal Boon
            The Laughing Maidens are free             lurKer in the Caves                          Property: You do not suffer a penalty
                                                                                                     to attack rolls as a result of dim light
          spirits who live spontaneously and          The Lurker in the Caves inhabits               or darkness (other effects of dim light
          have few long-term goals. They simply       an interconnected web of limestone             and darkness still apply).
          want to ensure that their river remains     caverns. It speaks to visitors only in the   Power (Daily): Minor Action. Effect:
          free and healthy.                           pitch black of the caves and refuses to        Area burst 2 within 10. You conjure
                                                                                                     a zone of darkness that fills the area
                                                      treat with them in the presence of even
                                                                                                     of the burst and lasts until the end of
          adventure hooks                             a single candle flame.                         your next turn. Sustain Minor: The
          A young sea serpent moved into the            Even darkvision cannot detect the            zone persists, and you can move it
          Laughing Maidens’ river and started         Lurker’s form. It speaks with dozens of        five squares.
          attacking boaters. The Maidens are just     voices, from young child to old crone,
          as upset as the river travelers, and they   from beautiful maiden to terrible beast.      LURkER ’S EyES (PATHFINDER RPG)
          will guide the PCs along the river to       During the conversation, visitors may        Aura faint evocation; CL 5th
          slay the beast.                             feel a gentle caress on their cheek,         Slot —; Price 8,000; Weight —
            An important priest suffered a blow       something crawling up their leg, or a        DESCRIPTION
          to his ego when the Laughing Maidens        cold noose around their neck.                When attacking, the recipient treats
                                                                                                    creatures in low light as though
          played a trick and embarrassed him in         The Lurker knows all that goes on           they do not have concealment, and
          front of his followers. Now he asks the     within its cavern including the fungus        he treats creatures in darkness as
          PCs for “justice” from the Laughing         and animals that dwell within, the            though they have only concealment
          Maidens, though he has no idea how to       schemes of the kobolds and goblins who        (instead of total concealment).
                                                                                                    Once per day, he can cast deeper
          achieve this.                               use it as their home, and which paths         darkness.
                                                      lead where. The Lurker sees little reason
          Boon                                        to share its knowledge, however, and
          The Laughing Maidens are fickle about       visitors seldom have anything it wants.      string oF grandFathers
          granting their boon. It might be as           It is difficult to divine the desires      A tribe of hunters and gatherers
          simple as bringing them a particularly      and intentions of the Lurker in the          honored their shaman in life and
          beautiful flower, or as demanding as        Caves. It seems to wish to keep its          death. Whenever a shaman died, his
          spending years in the Maidens’ service.     caves in darkness. It is generally           successor plucked out the largest of
                                                      unsympathetic to those who become            the old shaman’s teeth and added it
           MAIDENS’ LAUGHTER (4E)       LEVEL 3+      lost within its mazelike tunnels,            to a necklace that the new shaman
                                       UNCOMMON       though none can say whether this is          would wear. In this way, generations
          You giggle, and it soon infects another,    malice or simply cold indifference.          of shaman advised the clan. Over the
            causing him to double over in laughter.                                                years the string grew to dozens of teeth,
             Level 3 680 gp Level 8 3,400 gp          adventure hooks                              but the clan could not endure forever,
          Primal Boon                                 On a dare, three youngsters ventured         and monstrous invaders wiped it out.
          Property: You gain a +2 item bonus          into the Lurker’s caves. Somehow they          The necklace and the shamans’ spirits


                                                                                                                 Kobold Quarterly 20      65
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
       Small Spirits


          endure, however, now known as the           a magic necklace. The PCs must win           Knowledge (nature), or Handle Animal
          String of Grandfathers.                     the Grandfathers’ approval to gain any       check to grasp the meaning).
            The String of Grandfathers speaks         benefit from the necklace, however. To         The Green Stag is primarily
          with the voices of two-dozen old men.       do so they must demonstrate that they        concerned with preserving the forest’s
          Sometimes they offer advice in chorus,      honor the Grandpas’ ways and connect         splendor, and he sees humanoid
          while other times they bicker among         with them in spirit.                         encroachment as the greatest threat.
          themselves. Sometimes one grandpa’s                                                      Already he feels such creatures eroding
          voice comes into prominence, but             GRANDFATHERS’ WISDOM          LEVEL 3+      the edges of his realm.
          in time he inevitably fades back into                                     UNCOMMON
          the group. The closer a creature is to      As you don the necklace of teeth, you        adventure hooks
          the necklace, the more readily the            hear the whispers of the ancients          Human herders or farmers are clearing
          Grandfather can speak to it, though           offering advice.                           the forest to make grazing land, and
                                                         Level 3 680 gp Level 8 3,400 gp
          they can whisper though the wind or                                                      the Green Stag is furious. Woodland
          talk into dreams at great distances.        Primal Boon                                  creatures strike against the people and
            The String of Grandfathers can recall     Property: Treat the Grandpas’                their herds. The heroes must find a way
                                                        necklace of teeth as a +1 Amulet of
          the rich history of their people and          Protection.                                to deal with the situation, preferably in
          know much about the land around               Level 8: +2 Amulet of Protection.          a way that suits both the herders and
          their home, the uses for medicinal          Power (Daily): Use during an extended        the Stag.
          plants, and spiritual rites. They prefer      rest. Effect: Chose one skill. You gain      Hobgoblins are felling trees to fuel
          to share their knowledge with kindred         a +1 item bonus to the skill of your       their war machine, and the Green
                                                        choice until your next extended rest.
          spirits, and scorn “civilized” folk, who      Level 8: +2 bonus.
                                                                                                   Stag asks the PCs to fend them off. In
          they see as decadent and weak.              Power (Daily): Free action. Trigger:         doing so they discover that the loss of
            The Grandfathers seek a way to              You fail a skill check. Effect: You may    the forest is only part of the danger,
          somehow restore their clan or, failing        reroll that skill check.                   as the hobgoblins are on the brink of
          that, to exact revenge on those who                                                      invading civilized lands.
          destroyed them.
                                                       GRANDFATHERS’ WISDOM                        Boon
          adventure hooks                               (PATHFINDER RPG)                           The Green Stag gives its boon only to
          One of the PCs has a series of strange      Aura faint divination; CL 3rd                those who show great respect for the
          dreams in which he lives the lives          Slot —; Price 6,000; Weight —                forest and strive to keep it wild.
          of various tribesmen going on great         DESCRIPTION
          hunts, defending their clan in battle, or   If the recipient of the boon wears the        STAG’S BOUND LEVEL 3+ UNCOMMON
                                                          necklace of teeth (occupying the
          performing wondrous acts of healing.            neck slot), he gains a +2 resistance     Your legs suddenly fill with life, and you
          The constant of these dreams is that            bonus to all saving throws. Once           bound across the battlefield.
          the PC always wears a necklace made             per day when the wielder fails a skill      Level 3 680 gp Level 8 3,400 gp
          of human teeth. He feels compelled              check, he may immediately reroll it.     Primal Boon
          to seek out the teeth, and when he                                                       Property: You gain a +1 item bonus to
          at last discovers them, the String of       green stag                                     Nature checks
                                                                                                     Level 8: +2 item bonus.
          Grandfathers explain that the PC is         One of the wildest nature spirits, the
                                                                                                   Power (Daily): Minor. Effect: You shift
          descended from those who escaped the        Green Stag dwells in the untouched             a number of squares equal to your
          clan’s destruction.                         forest. He often flees from the first sign     speed +1.
            The Grandfathers' clan once hid           of humanoids, so only those who prove          Level 8: Your speed +2.
          a powerful magic weapon that they           themselves at one with the forest can
          feared could easily be turned to evil.      gain an audience with the Stag.
          Now omens predict that the weapon             The Stag watches what goes on in            STAG’S BOUND (PATHFINDER RPG)
          is the best way to stop the evil from       his forest, but he lacks knowledge of        Aura faint transmutation; CL 1st
          rising again. The PCs must seek out the     humanoids and their ways, so he may          Slot —; Price 1,400; Weight —
          String of Grandfathers and convince         not always understand what humanoid          DESCRIPTION
          them to trust the heroes sufficiently to    creatures do. Further, the Stag does         The boon grants a +1 competence
                                                                                                     bonus Handle Animal and Knowledge
          reveal the weapon’s hiding place.           not speak any tongue known by                  (nature) checks. Once per day, as
                                                      mortals. He “speaks” primarily through         a swift action, the boon recipient
          Boon                                        gestures, body language, and animal            can activate the stag’s speed. For
          Unlike most other primal boons, the         grunts. Despite this, he is surprisingly       1 minute, the recipient of the boon
                                                                                                     gains a +10 enhancement bonus to
          String of Grandfathers is itself also a     efficient and precise at communicating         his land speed and a +5 bonus to
          blessing, as a character can wear it as     (though a GM might require a Nature,           Acrobatics checks made to jump. Ω


          66      Winter 2012
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
                                  TM




      presenTs




           Fantastic Voyages Await!
                                 rally your CreW, and hoist the sails!
      A new adventure anthology is underway from                                     • Populate and describe the exotic seaport
      Open Design! Join lead designer Christina Stiles                                 city of Barsella
      and set sail from Barsella, the City at the Edge of                            • Delve into the mysteries of the Isle of
      the world, into the vast, uncharted waters of the                                Morphoi and its cults
      Midgard campaign setting’s Western Ocean.
                                                                                     • Take to the waves with new ship plans
      Journeys to the West is designed for use in                                      and create new magic for water and
      any seafaring or edge-of-civilization Pathfinder                                 ley-lines
      rolePlaying game campaign. Explore the deadly
                                                                                     • Master the dangers of the unknown with
      island paradise where the goddess of memory seeks
                                                                                       new traits, feats, spells, incantations, and
      lost secrets through her network of cunning agents.
                                                                                       gear
      Rediscover lost civilizations, explore fog-shrouded
      islands, battle epic leviathans of the deep, and gain                          • Design new islands and their terrifying
      priceless and unusual treasures!                                                 monster-gods

                 Become a Patron at koBoldquarterly.com
                                                  Open Design and Midgard are trademarks of Open Design LLC.
                          Pathfinder and associated marks and logos are trademarks of Paizo Publishing, LLC, and are used under license.
                                                                                                                        Kobold Quarterly 20
                                      See paizo.com/pathfinderRPG for more information on the Pathfinder Roleplaying Game.                    67
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
       Unearthed Ancestry




          Unearthed Ancestry
               Racial Utility Powers for Gnomes, Tieflings, and Minotaurs
          By Jerry LeNeave
          Art by Frank Walls




          T
                   he tieflings noble houses have
                   fallen and despair wreaths
                   their ruins. The untapped
          magic of the Fey realm permeates
          the gnomish soul and creeps like fog
          around their homes. The conflict
          between Man and Beast roils just              Constitution, or Wisdom modifier           Daily * Primal
                                                        and is pushed 3 squares. You are no        Minor Action Personal
          beneath the surface of every minotaur.        longer grabbed.                            Effect: You gain a +15 power bonus
          The special talents and innate abilities,                                                  to your next Constitution-, Strength-,
          long forgotten or unidentified, of these     SPIkED RIPOSTE MINOTAUR UTILITy 10            or Wisdom-based check. In addition,
          peoples present unique opportunities        You parry an opponent’s attack with            you cannot be surprised until the
                                                                                                     end of your next extended rest. You
          for those individuals capable of using        your horns, goring and knocking
                                                        them to the floor simultaneously.            score a critical hit on a roll of 19 or
          them best.                                                                                 20, and you gain a +2 power bonus
                                                      Encounter * Martial
                                                                                                     to attack and damage rolls until the
                                                      Immediate Interrupt Personal
          minotaur powers                             Trigger: An enemy attacks you with a
                                                                                                     end of your next extended rest.
                                                        weapon attack
           LAByRINTHINE INSTINCT         MINOTAUR     Effect: The attack misses you. Make          gnome powers
                                         UTILITy 2      the following attack as a free action.
                                                      Target: The triggering creature               ILLUSORy OBJECT        GNOME UTILITy 2
          Entering a deep trance, you reach out
            to the spirits of your ancestors for      Attack: Level + highest ability modifier
                                                        vs. Reflex                                 A flick of the wrist allows you to conjure
            guidance and premonition.                                                                a steadfast illusion of a single object.
          At-Will * Primal                            Hit: 5 + highest ability modifier damage,
                                                        and the target is knocked prone.           At-Will * Illusion
          Standard Action Personal                                                                 Minor Action Ranged 1 square
                                                      Miss: Target is knocked prone.
          Requirement: You must be inside a                                                          within 5
            location that contains walls.                                                          Effect: Make an DC 15 Arcana,
          Effect: Gain a +5 power bonus to your        BECOMING THE BULL            MINOTAUR         Thievery or Nature check. If
            next Perception check. In addition,                                     UTILITy 16       successful, you conjure one small or
            a successful Perception check will                                                       tiny object in the target square. It can
            determine the origin (type) and speed     With a poised bestial roar, steam
                                                                                                     be moved and manipulated as if it
            of up to 5 creatures within 10 squares      billows from your nostrils, and your
                                                                                                     were a real object. It may not contain
            of you. Walls do not block this effect,     hooves dig deep into the ground.
                                                                                                     moving parts and has weight, sound,
            and line of sight is not required.        Daily * Martial                                and scent identical to the real thing.
          Aftereffect: You receive a -2 penalty       Standard Action Personal                       You may end this effect as a free
            to attack rolls until the end of your     Effect: Until the end of the encounter,        action. Anyone viewing, touching, or
            next turn.                                  you may use goring charge as an At-          interacting with the object may make
                                                        Will power. In addition if goring charge     an Insight check to detect the illusion.
           By THE HORNS          MINOTAUR UTILITy 6     is used against a bloodied creature, it      The DC for this check is equal to
                                                        takes an additional 1d6 damage.              your skill check result when conjuring
          A burst of bestial strength frees you
                                                                                                     this item. If the Illusion is detected, it
            from your adversaries’ grasp and
                                                                                                     vanishes immediately
            sends them flying.                         ANCESTRAL GUIDANCE           MINOTAUR
          Encounter * Martial
                                                                                    UTILITy 22      VEIL OF THE FEyWILD GNOME UTILITy 6
          Immediate Reaction Personal
          Trigger: An enemy grabs you                 Calling forth magic of your bestial          A thin layer of fey magic serves as a
          Effect: The triggering enemy takes            heritage, you are emboldened by a            guise for friend, or a foe.
            damage equal to your Strength,             wellspring of strength and wisdom.          Encounter * Illusion



          68      Winter 2012
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
          Standard Action Close burst 5                  fails again, you lose an action point      Special: The weapon also gains the
          Target: One creature in burst                  if available, and you may not spend          property Critical: 5 ongoing fire
          Effect: Make an Arcana, Bluff,                 action points until the end of your          damage/tier. This effect stacks
            Thievery, or Nature check. The               next turn.                                   with other critical properties of that
            target assumes the physical and                                                           weapon or implement.
            vocal likeness of another person or         TALL TALES COME TRUE              GNOME
            creature of equal size as the target
            of your choosing until the end of your                                     UTILITy 22    DEVILISH PERkS      TIEFLING UTILITy 10
            next turn. Insight checks to detect        Through a combination of luck, trickery,     With a little strain, you briefly manifest
            this illusion are made versus the            and perhaps a little gnomish magic,          an infernal trait from deep within your
            result of your check.                        you manage to make the improbable            bloodline.
          Special: If the target is not an ally, you     seem feasible.                             Daily
            may make the following attack.             Daily * Illusion, Psychic                    Minor Action Personal
          Attack: Arcana, Bluff, Thievery, or          Standard Action Ranged 1 square              Effect: Lose a healing surge. Choose
            Nature vs. Perception +10                    within 20                                    one of the following perks which lasts
          Hit: Target does not notice the illusion.    Trigger: A creature moves into a               until the end of your next turn.
          Miss: Target notices the illusion and          square of your choosing                      • Sprout leathery wings. You gain a
            identifies its caster.                     Effect: Choose one of the following.             fly speed of 8.
          Sustain Minor: The illusion persists         1: Through means no gnome would                • Your body ripples with spines and
            until the end of your next turn.             ever dare reveal, you’ve managed to            horns. Gain +2 to AC, an additional
                                                         prepare a trap ahead of time.                  5 fire resist, and deal 5 damage
           FEyBOUND COMPANION              GNOME         * Effect: You may place a single trap          to any creature hitting you with a
                                        UTILITy 10          or hazard of a level no greater than        melee attack.
                                                            your own with its origin square           • Create a Burst 1 cloud of unnatural
          A natural affinity for beasts and                 anywhere within range.                      darkness within 10 squares. These
            woodland creatures allows you to           2: Through means of fast talk, feints,           squares are opaque and prevent
            gain a fast riding companion and ally.       flourishes of fey magic, deft footwork,        line of sight to all but tieflings,
          At-Will * Charm                                and impish laughter, you completely            devils, and demons.
          Standard Action Ranged 5                       puzzle and distract your target.           The effects may not be sustained after
          Target: One medium or small natural            * Effect: Target grants combat               the end of an encounter.
            living animal or beast                          advantage until the end of the          Special: Spend an action point. You
          Effect: You may communicate with                  encounter. In addition, the target        may select two of these benefits.
            target creature in order to bond                suffers a -4 penalty to Will saves      Sustain Minor: The effect(s) persist
            with it. After bonding, the creature            and Perception checks until the           until the end of your next turn.
            will serve you as a mount for                   end of its next turn. (Sustain minor)
            24 hours or until you summon
            another feybound companion,                                                              DEMONIC TRANSFERENCE           TIEFLING
            and you may communicate with it            tieFling powers                                                             UTILITy 16
            telepathically up to one mile away.
            Sending thoughts to your feybound                                                       A mere touch allows an ally to be
            companion requires a minor action.          INFERNAL IGNITION TIEFLING UTILITy 2          infused with your dark gifts.
            Your companion is not dominated,           You will the fire that stirs inside your     Daily
            may still act on its own will, and           soul to creep out into the world           Standard Action Melee Touch
            cannot be given combat orders.               around you.                                Effect: Lose a healing surge. Target
            Willingly sending your companion           At-Will * Fire, Psychic                        regains hit points as if it had spent a
            into combat immediately breaks             Standard Action Ranged 10                      healing surge and gains a single use
            your bond.                                                                                of one of your tiefling powers, which
                                                       Target: One creature or object
          Special: You may have only one                                                              must be used before the end of their
                                                       Effect: The target bursts into                 next turn. Special properties of that
            feybound companion at a time. If you         flame, taking an ongoing 5/10/15
            choose and bond with a new animal,                                                        power do not apply to them.
                                                         + Intelligence, Charisma, or
            you lose the bond with your previous         Constitution modifier fire damage
            companion.                                                                               ESSENCE OF ASMODEUS            TIEFLING
                                                         (save ends). This effect is not
                                                         cumulative.                                                               UTILITy 22
           GNOME’S GAMBIT GNOME UTILITy 16                                                          Asmodeus, the King of Devils,
          For gnomes, toying with strands of fate       BOON OF THE                 TIEFLING          manifests and bestows a blessing
            is as simple as playing a hand of            NINE GATES                 UTILITy 6         from his ruby rod.
            cards.                                                                                  Daily * Healing, Fire
                                                       Rage and flame from regions beyond           Minor Action Personal
          Encounter                                      writhe through a weapon of your
          Interrupt Personal                                                                        Effect: Gain an additional 15 fire resist,
                                                         choosing.
          Trigger: You miss on an attack roll or                                                      Regeneration 15, a +10 bonus to
                                                       Encounter * Fire                               all Intelligence and Charisma based
            fail a skill check.                        Minor Action Burst 5
          Effect: You may re-roll the attack or                                                       checks, and deal 15 fire damage
                                                       Target: One weapon or implement                to any creature striking you with a
            skill check, but you must take the           within range
            second result. If the roll succeeds,                                                      melee attack until the end of the
                                                       Effect: Until the end of the encounter,        encounter. After the encounter,
            it counts as a critical if applicable,
                                                         the weapon inflicts an additional            you are weakened until your next
            and you gain an action point that you
                                                         1d6 + Charisma, Constitution, or             extended rest.                       Ω
            may spend immediately. If the roll
                                                         Intelligence modifier fire damage.


                                                                                                                 Kobold Quarterly 20           69
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
       Make Haste!




               Make Haste!
                   How to Design an Adventure with Time Pressure
               By Ron Lundeen
               Art by Jeff Preston




          R
                   acing against time is a classic    Either the encounter lets the PCs earn
                   element of fantasy adventure.      a haste point (early encounters), or the
                   The heroes must rush through       encounter’s difficulty varies based on
          orc-infested lands to secure vital help     how many haste points the PCs have
          from a friendly nation, or race to save     already earned (one or two climactic
          an imperiled damsel, or gather clues        encounters). The number of encounters
          fast enough to uncover assassins before     of the first type sets how many haste
          they strike. Unfortunately, the question    points are available. The difficulties and
          “Do the heroes arrive in time?” isn’t       obstacles of climactic encounters scale
          much of a question. They must, or the       based on how many haste points the
          adventure has very little climax.           PCs have earned.
            The haste point mechanic presented
          here gives you the tension of a ticking     haste point exaMple:
          clock without sacrificing the payoff        against the venoM Cult
          of the climax or overwhelming the           For example, an adventure called
          PCs. Do the PCs arrive in time? Of          “Against the Venom Cult” might have
          course, but the villain might be better     eight encounters and allow the PCs to
          prepared, the events the PCs wish to        earn a haste point from each of the first
          prevent might be further along, or a        six encounters while they investigate
          much larger encounter might confront        cultist activity and race to locate the
          the PCs. Conversely, if the PCs make        cult’s lair. The difficulty of the final two
          good time, they might catch the villain     encounters, where the PCs confront                   spiders, making the fight slightly
          unprepared, short-handed, or just           the cultists in their hideout, would thus            more challenging for the PCs.
          getting his plans underway.                 vary depending on how many out of               •    If the PCs have fewer than two
                                                      the six possible haste points the PCs                haste points, the cultists are
          haste point BasiCs                          had earned. The encounters are slightly              joined by four spiders and all
          Haste points track how quickly the          easier if the PCs have earned four or                enemies inflict bonus poison
          PCs navigate the various elements of        more haste points, somewhat harder if                damage due to the near-
          a time-sensitive adventure. The PCs         they have earned three or less. Ways to              completion of their ritual.
          earn haste points based on how quickly      scale the last encounter include:
          or well they handle each encounter.           • If the PCs have earned all six               Haste points can also provide
          More haste points give the PCs                      haste points, the cultists are         opportunities to succeed beyond
          opportunities and advantages (or fewer              entirely unprepared for an             simply changing an encounter’s
          disadvantages) during the adventure’s               attack. The PCs must face fewer        composition. If the PCs must free the
          climactic scene. Haste points encourage             lookouts, opponents, and traps.        baron’s son before a dark cult sacrifices
          PC to make difficult decisions and            • If the PCs have four or five haste         him, for example, the speed with
          reward hard choices and clever skill so             points, the cultists are prepared      which they reach the final encounter
          long as the PCs keep focused on their               but unsupported by allies.             (meaning the haste points they earn
          main goal—and keep moving.                    • If the PCs have two or three               along the way) might not change
            Each encounter in an adventure using              haste points, the cultists are         how many cultists are gathered at the
          haste points falls into one of two types.           joined by a set of four poisonous      ritual. Rather, it might provide several


          70      Winter 2012
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
          Perception checks (equal to the haste        effort, over and above the encounter’s             the encounter’s haste point.
          point total) to see the critical flaws       usual events, to earn the haste point.        •    The PCs lose a haste point by
          in the villains’ security that allows a      Examples of “rush” encounters include:             spending too much game time
          single PC to free the boy while the            • While crossing a wasteland and                 relaxing, negotiating, healing
          others fight, or it might reveals the               foraging for food, the PCs might            up, exploring, or shopping.
          one rope a daring archer can cut with               make a difficult Survival or Nature         Some resting and exploration is
          an arrow to drop the chandelier on the              check to discover a shortcut.               expected, but excessive delay can
          cult leader.                                   • If the PCs spare an enemy during               cost the PCs.
            Haste points can provide additional               a combat encounter, it might           •    The PCs research, scry, or
          tension beyond simply altering                      reveal a timesaving clue if they            otherwise discover valuable
          an encounter’s level, especially in                 interrogate an enemy and succeed            information about their
          encounters with minimal combat.                     at a difficult Intimidate check.            opponents. If the PCs spend a
          Perhaps the PCs have discovered the            • An encounter such as a spreading               few hours reading or making
          identity of an assassin and the exact               fire or rising flood might include          contacts, they automatically learn
          poison she plans to use, and they must              a timesaving clue if the PCs                useful information but forfeit
          race to the duke’s palace to stop him               can avert the disaster quickly.             the encounter’s haste point. (This
          from drinking it in the middle of the               Otherwise, the clue is lost.                information should be useful but
          ball celebrating his daughter’s wedding.       • While investigating a crime                    not crucial to success.)
          The PCs might gain haste points for                 scene, the PCs may make a               One haste point per non-
          outwitting and sneaking away from                   difficult Perception check to         climactic encounter is a guideline,
          the thugs set to waylay them, and from              quickly discover the clue they        but an encounter need not
          leaving one or two party members to                 need. A failed check means the        provide a haste point. Conversely,
          hold up the assassin’s apprentices and              PCs expend substantial time           a single major encounter might
          wizard accomplice while one of the                  discovering the necessary clue.       provide several haste points. A
          PCs dashes for the duke. These haste                                                      long night of river travel with
          points might allow the PCs a lower             Linger Encounters: In “linger”             three difficult Perception checks
          DC to skill checks used to convince the      encounters, the PCs automatically gain       to avoid time-consuming river
          guards to let them into the hall (or to      a haste point unless they take action to     hazards might grant a haste point
          sneak in), to locate the one poisoned        lose it. Give the players opportunities      for each successful check—and
          wine bottle in a table of similar bottles,   to exchange time for other advantages        serious danger in dark waters if the
          and to convince the duke not to drink        (such as interesting but non-vital           nocturnal hazards are not seen.
          an otherwise exquisite vintage in a very     information, material wealth, or               Record the total number
          public toast.                                heroic-but-unrelated deeds). Confront        of potential haste points for
                                                       the PCs with decisions that test their       constructing climactic encounters.
          early enCounters:                            commitment to their goal. Examples of        DMs should make abundantly clear
           earning haste points                        “linger” encounters include:                 throughout the adventure that delay
          Each encounter that can award a haste          • After a combat encounter,                carries a cost. It isn’t fair to penalize
          point should, in addition any other                  the PCs discover captives that       players when they had no idea that
          elements, include a clear opportunity                cannot reach safety on their own.    haste was essential. Haste points
          for the PCs to either make quick                     Helping the captives forfeits the    should be neither easy nor assumed.
          headway or else lose some time                       encounter’s haste point.             As a guideline, design encounters
          toward their ultimate goal. Rapidly            • While seeking their goal, the            assuming that your PCs will gain half
          overcoming obstacles or ignoring                     PCs find someone in need of          of the available haste points.
          distractions earns the party a haste                 time-consuming help (lost and
          point. Getting stuck on a task or                    threatened pilgrims, villagers       ClimaCtiC enCounters:
          sidetracked costs them the potential                 with missing children, etc.).         applying haste points
          haste point. Each encounter that allows              Whatever reward the PCs earn,          Haste points might apply only to
          the PCs to earn a haste point is either a            they forfeit the haste point.        the last encounter of an adventure,
          “rush” or “linger” encounter.                  • A friendly NPC offers the PCs            but look for ways to apply haste points
            Rush Encounters: In “rush”                         a reward for performing a task       to other climactic moments if the
          encounters, the PCs must work to earn                the NPC considers urgent (such       adventure contains more than four
          the haste point, by accomplishing                    as searching for a lost item or      encounters. This can make adventures
          a task with a challenging but not                    defusing an impending fight) but     gradually more challenging, and
          impossible difficulty. Look for ways                 that distracts from the ultimate     emphasize the need for PCs to stay
          the PCs might put in some extra                      goal. Performing the task forfeits   focused and pick up the pace.


                                                                                                                 Kobold Quarterly 20      71
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
            In an encounter applying haste                  You can add them midway               when not to use haste
          points, break down the total possible             through the battle if the PCs are      points
          points on a scale. This breakdown                 doing well.                           Haste points are not a perfect tool for
          can be as simple as a binary toggle          •    Some enemies have sustained           every time-sensitive situation, such as:
          (such as, whether the PCs have at                 injuries that have not quite            • Short Periods. When the action
          least four haste points) or as detailed           healed. These injuries are                   occurs over a short period of
          as different outcome for every                    represented by lowered hp totals,            time—less than an hour, rather
          possible haste point total.                       a small penalty to attack rolls, or          than over many hours or many
            You should set the baseline difficulty          a similar effect.                            days—haste points cannot cover
          for the encounter at the halfway point,      •    Some enemies are asleep or                   all actions that might create a
          meaning plan for the PCs to arrive                unarmored, and require time                  measurable delay. Over short
          with about half of the total available            before joining the fight.                    periods, just using a ritual or
          haste points.                                •    If the encounter involves a trap,            casting a spell with a long cast
            If the PCs have earned fewer than               decrease the danger by reducing              time might throw off the clock.
          half of the available haste points,               its damage or effect.                        In these cases, simply tracking
          increase the difficulty of the encounter     •    Eliminate a trap or lookout                  the PCs’ activities round-by-
          but not by more than one or two                   entirely because they had no                 round or minute-by-minute
          levels. These changes reflect the                 time to set it.                              generally works best (just like
          enemies’ greater preparation. Don’t          •    Add an environmental effect to               tracking a spell or effect that lasts
          overwhelm the PCs completely; no                  aid the PCs but not the enemies              20 minutes).
          matter how long they took to reach                (having the sun still up while          • Footraces. Don’t penalize PCs just
          the end, they should still have a                 they attack the vampire, for                 because they have a lumbering
          chance of success. Examples include:              example, or having a fog bank                dwarf in the party. When just
            • Add minions or lackeys to                     roll in to cover their approach              making a flat-out run after
                 the fight. Individually, these             in early morning, before the sun             an objective, the Pathfinder
                 opponents don’t really challenge           burns it away).                              Roleplaying Game’s chase rules
                 the PCs, but the encounter is                                                           or a Dungeons & Dragons skill
                 harder with more of them and           When the PCs have earned many                    challenge provide a more useful
                 they might escape to warn others.    haste points, your descriptions should             mechanism.
            • Increase the enemies’                   show that the PCs have caught their
                 attentiveness and number of          enemies off-guard or unprepared. You        haste points and rewards
                 guards, reducing the likelihood      should emphasize the link between the       Haste points should not modify the
                 that the PCs can catch them by       PCs’ rush through earlier encounters        XP or treasure of an encounter. The
                 surprise.                            and the challenge of the climactic          encounter difficulty depends on how
            • Establish some preparatory spells       encounter.                                  well the PCs met the adventure’s earlier
                 or useful magic items that the         An adventure can include several          time pressures. Earning fewer haste
                 villains prepare before the fight.   encounters modified by haste points,        points makes an encounter challenging,
            • Erect some minor fortifications,        and these need not be contiguous.           but should not reward the PCs with
                 magical terrain, or other            For example, if the PCs spent the last      increased XP. Conversely, earning more
                 environmental hazard to hinder       three encounters tracking down river        haste points should not penalize the
                 the PCs.                             bandits before they steal a shipment of     PCs with less XP because the climactic
            • Add a minor trap, or increase           coins from the royal mint, haste points     encounter was easier. They earned the
                 the danger of a trap (by adding      might influence the climactic fourth        easier encounter by succeeding at the
                 poison, for example).                encounter in the bandits’ lair. More        faster, harder road with less time for rest.
                                                      haste points might provide clues that         When planning adventures and
             If the PCs have earned more than half    reveal not simply that a traitor works      encounters to include haste points,
          of the available haste points, decrease     among the men guarding the shipment,        make sure that PCs still receive the
          the encounter difficulty by no more         but who it is, and that he serves the       enough information or items to
          than a single level, so that it remains     king’s exiled brother. Moreover, fewer      ultimately succeed, no matter how fast
          a satisfying challenge. These changes       haste points at this stage might reduce     or slow they go, and determine before
          reflect the PCs giving their enemies        the time the PCs have to reach the          hand what clues and useful things they
          little time to prepare. Examples            shipment riverboat as well as increasing    could gain by moving quickly. This
          include:                                    the difficulty in finding the inside man,   requires a little extra work, but the
             • One or two low-powered                 who is still determined to wrest away       tension haste points can add to a game
                  combatants have not yet arrived.    the gold for his master’s cause.            is well worth it.                       Ω


          72      Winter 2012
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
       Fish of Legend




          Fish of Legend
               Magical Seafood for Fighters & Wizards Alike
          By Crystal Frasier




          T
                    he underwater world holds            Apply the Advanced Creature
                    a strange fascination.             template and Aquatic subtype to a
                    Surrounding civilization           shocker lizard to represent an adult
          on all sides, the aquatic realm is a         abaia, adding the ability to cast create
          strange and alien world—untamed,             water once per day.
          unexplored, and forever unknowable.          Benefits: Freshly-caught abaia flesh
                                                         is fatty and rich, and tropical druids
          It provides support, transportation,           often use it in sacrifices to call for
          and nourishment vital to entire                rain. The eel’s brain, while bitter and
          empires, yet conceals mysteries a              grainy, confers a measure of the
          scant dozen feet from the largest cities       abaia’s elemental affinity; and
                                                         eating it both renders a person
          and best-traveled roads. Whether the           impervious to dehydration
          rolling waves of the ocean or gentle           effects for 24 hours and allows
          ripples on an icy mountain lake, the           them to drip water from their                                   arcane spellcasters
          aquatic world hides alien monsters             skin at will (up to 10 gallons /                                or magic items,
                                                         day). Using the entire fish as
          and strange treasures.                         the material component for a
                                                                                                                       marking them as
             For these reasons, fish serve as strong     control water or control weather                             targets for larger,
          mythological symbols for everything            spell doubles the spell’s duration,                         intelligent creatures.
          from fertility to knowledge. Always            as per the Extend Spell feat.                                 Benefits: These
                                                       Market Price: Whether the entire fish                          adaptable fish survive
          a healthy and renewable food source,                                                                        up to 10 minutes in
                                                         or simply the preserved brain, a
          fish also provide countless mundane            single abaia costs 250 gp.                                   any non-toxic liquid,
          goods: dyes, food, medicine, cosmetics,                                                                   from salt water to wine
          even leather. In a world where magic                                                      to various potions and alchemical
                                                                                                    fluids. If the substance is poisonous,
          runs rampant, far stranger breeds swim       alChemist guppy                              the fish dies immediately. PCs may
          the furthest currents. Many makes            The origins of the alchemist guppy are       attempt a DC 20 Craft (alchemy)
          unexpectedly fine magical treasures.         lost to history, but selective breeding      check to identify the impurity. A
                                                       undoubtedly coaxed them along.               surviving fish may be returned to
                                                                                                    freshwater and reused, though
          aBaia (Cr 3)                                 The surprisingly durable creatures           each fish needs 24 hours to recover
          Native to sweltering jungles, where          survive short-term immersion in              between “expeditions.” Escaped,
          seasonal rains turn forests into             most chemicals, but they die quickly         feral guppies are woefully inaccurate,
          swamps and fields into lakes, the            if exposed to genuine poisons or             but many city dwellers keep them as
                                                                                                    pets.
          abaia evolved remarkable control             toxins. Many alchemists, especially as
                                                                                                   Market Price: 15 gp for a carefully bred
          over their environment. As relatives         apprentices, use them to ensure safety.      domesticated sample. A feral pet
          of the freshwater electric eel, the          Less commonly, nobles use them to test       costs 5-10 cp.
          abaia tap elemental magic to create          for poison in wines or soups.
          small rainstorms to maintain their              As a strange side-effect of frequent     Badarlayn (Cr 1/6)
          small pools during the dry season.           exposure to arcane magic, alchemist         Catfish and other bottom-feeders
          Competition over these magical               guppies naturally flock to sources of       benefit from a hardy constitution, but
          currents makes the abaia highly              this magic. In urban waterways, where       few can compare to the badarlayn.
          territorial, and they protect their          escaped hardy fish sometimes breed          Evolved long ago from blind catfish
          pools and fish stocks fiercely from one      into large numbers, schools of the          favored by dwarven traders, they enjoy
          another and other predators.                 colorful, inch-long fish swarm around       the festering cornucopia provided by


                                                                                                                Kobold Quarterly 20       73
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
       Fish of Legend


                                                       20 t. and replace its bite with a sting        wispy, delicate fins in every color of the
             Magic Items that Aren’t                   attack that inflicts parasites (treat as       rainbow, from which they derive their
                                                       bubonic plague, but only transmissible         names. These silky streamers—longer
            From a mechanical perspective,
                                                       by injury).                                    than the fish’s own body—mimic the
            most of the wondrous fish                  Benefits: Badarlayn rely on powerful
            mentioned in this article are                                                             somatic gestures of illusion spells. This
                                                         natural magics to survive in filth.
            simply magic items with a new               Properly harvesting and cleaning the
                                                                                                      unusual casting ability lets feytail create
            paint job. Adding an unusual                fish’s delicate liver without puncturing      colorful illusory lures to attract prey.
            description to otherwise familiar           it is no simple task, but doing so              Because of their powers, many
            magical items helps them stand              preserves that magic. Eating an               aristocrats whisper that eating a feytail’s
            out and feel special. Inventing             entire badarlayn liver cures any
                                                        ailment, as per the remove disease
                                                                                                      flesh makes a woman more alluring.
            your own magical fish is as easy            spell (CL 10).                                Ironically, the milky, soft meat does
            as picking a potion or wondrous            Market Price: Fried badarlayn                  provide a flush of color, but due to a
            item of an appropriate value and            fillets are available in the poorest          mild allergic reaction rather than any
            dreaming up a new description.              neighborhoods for a few copper; while         magical properties.
            Be careful not to overuse this              safe, they are an acquired taste. The
                                                        livers are nigh-impossible to harvest           Feytails use the statistics for cats.
            technique; if every potion is an
            exotic fish, otherworldly fruit, or         intact and cost 1,500 gp apiece.              Apply the Aquatic subtype, exchange
            mountaintop lily, then suddenly                                                           its land speed for a swim speed, remove
            finding an actual potion in a glass        CornuCopia sKate                               its claw attacks, and add the ability to
            vial becomes the rare treat.               To many cultures, fish represent plenty,       cast dancing lights at will.
               If your players decide to go            and a good haul may save entire cities         Benefits: The flesh of a feytail is
                                                                                                          delicate but simple to prepare. Eating
            right to the source and angle for          from siege or blight. Sometimes called             its flesh causes a minor flush and
            these spectacular fish themselves,         the “angel’s bounty”, the cornucopia               sense of euphoria, providing a +2
            the technical details can easily           skate is a celestial breed of cartilaginous        alchemical bonus all Bluff, Diplomacy,
            be cribbed from the Magic Item             fish that embodies that concept. Native            and Perform checks for 24 hours,
            Creation rules. Simply replace                                                                but the reaction also imposes a -2
                                                       to the golden seas of the higher planes,           penalty to all Fortitude saves.
            the appropriate Craft skill with           the flat fish rarely find their way into
            Profession (angler) and assume the                                                        If the creature is kept as a pet, it may
                                                       terrestrial oceans. In times of need, the          be prodded up to cast dancing lights
            raw materials cost is the price for
                                                       gods of light send great schools of the            3/day, though carrying the fish, an
            specialized line, lures, and exotic                                                           aquarium, and ample fresh water and
            bait required to fish for such             creatures to their faithful, filling bellies
                                                                                                          food to keep it healthy is impractical
            legendary creatures. GMs may               in times of need and granting peace to             for any traveler.
            wish to waive any feat requirement         troubled souls.                                In addition, the feytail’s delicate
            for catching enchanted fish, as               The lightly-colored cornucopia skate            constitution requires a keeper to
            doing so requires the additional           rarely grows larger than 12” from nose to          make a successful DC 20 Handle
            hassle of locating the creature’s                                                             Animal check each day to prevent the
                                                       tail. Their speckled hides often resemble          fish from suffering 1d4 Con damage.
            habitat—often far-removed from             holy symbols, and their flaky flesh is         Market Price: A well-cooked feytail
            civilization and surrounded by             bland but filling. Many good-aligned               dinner is a noble extravagance, and
            hostile creatures. Ultimately, the         churches offer pickled skates as rations           rarely seen outside palace walls.
            GM is final arbiter of how many                                                               A single fillet costs 160 gp. A live,
                                                       for young clerics sent on holy quests or
            enchanted fish can be acquired                                                                healthy feytail is worth 600 gp.
            through angling before the local           pilgrims setting out on long journeys.
                                                       Benefits: If carefully skinned and
            supply is fished out.                        prepared with reverence by a divine
                                                        caster, a cornucopia skate’s flesh
                                                                                                      Fur-Bearing trout (Cr ½)
                                                        swells and multiplies as it is cleaned.       Despite the absurdity, rumors persist
          urban sewers and cesspools. Many              A single fish can feed three adults           of a legendary fish high in the coldest
          disease cults revere the reddish-black        for a full day. If the skate is pickled       mountains streams and iciest glacial
                                                        whole, its regenerative power can
          catfish, considering them blessed with        feed people at any point in the next
                                                                                                      lakes. Also called the yeti trout, these
          immunity to all plague. Outside of            year. Once skinned, the tender flesh          elusive freshwater fish evolved a
          such vile churches, badarlayn are not         preserves poorly and putrefies after          beaver-like pelt to resist the frigid bite
          especially popular. Their plague-ridden       24 hours.                                     of their home waters. The legendary
          environment and rancid-tasting flesh         Market Price: 37.5 gp                          pelt does exist, because the fur-bearing
          repulse all but the poorest city-dwellers,                                                  trout—alone among all fish—is
          and the barb on its tail inflicts a deadly   Feytail (Cr 1/4)                               warm-blooded!
          parasite on those who get too close.         Also called faerie fish and the dowager’s        Whether by magic or bizarre
            Use the statistics for a lizard and        blush, feytails swim in the wildest            natural selection, the fur-bearing
          apply the aquatic subtype. Replace           streams of untouched forests. These            trout generates unheard-of levels of
          the land and climb speeds with Swim          delicate cousins to the carp feature           potent hormones. While this makes


          74      Winter 2012
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
                                                       hours or weeks to fully understand            sublime meals, with each serving
          their flavor musky in the extreme,           (GM discretion). A live fish may              worth up to 50 gp. The magical,
          their bodily oil makes key ingredients       be substituted for a divine focus             secondary fillet is worth a king’s
          in tonics to treat male disorders of         for deities associated with stars,            ransom: 52,500 gp unprepared or
          virility and strength. Their primordial      creativity, or prophecy. Eating the           55,000 gp ready to eat.
                                                       mehyt itself provides no special
          brew also makes the fish exceptionally       insight, but doing so is considered an
          aggressive and tenacious.                    affront to the gods in certain areas.       wishing Koi
            Use the stats for badgers, giving them    Market Price: A single spoonful of           Part legend, part force of nature,
          the aquatic subtype and swapping             mehyt roe is worth 1,125                    the legendary wishing koi swims the
                                                       gp, and is difficult
          their land speed for swim speed. A           to store for more
                                                                                                   world’s oceans, appearing to lovelorn
          fur-bearing trout’s burrow speed only        than a week or                                       widows and poor fishermen
          applies to ice and snow.                     two. A live mehyt                                      just often enough to keep
          Benefits: The oil from a fur-bearing         fetches 50 gp                                                       the rumors
            trout may be crafted into an               from interested
            alchemical tonic that provides one         buyers, and lays
                                                                                                                           circulating.
            of the following benefits: restore lost    eggs once a                                                       The unusual
            hair for one month, fill in a mustache     year, in the spring.                                              fish can speak
            or beard, grow hair on an otherwise                                                                           and commands
            clean area (such as an arm or child’s
            face) for one week, relieve impotence
                                                      salmon oF wisdom (Cr 2+)                         incredible magical powers, the
            for 24 hours. A single fur-bearing        The annual migration of salmon                   most famous of which is the ability
            trout contains enough oil to brew 10      is one of nature’s great wonders.                to warp reality and grant a heart's
            such tonics.                              Thousands upon thousands of fish             desire. The crafty creature uses this
          Market Price: A single fur-bearing          navigating across oceans and waterways,      ability to tempt sailors and young
            trout, alive or dead, is worth 130 gp
            to interested parties. Once brewed, a     returning to their exact place of birth.     maidens for its own entertainment—or
            single dose of alchemical tonic costs     The superstitious claim that each            buy its freedom when captured.
            26 gp.                                    generation, the fish pool their cleverness     Little is known about the wishing
                                                      into a single paragon of their kind, a       koi. Some cultures claim the fish,
          mehyt                                       Lord or Lady of Salmon who holds             swathed in brilliant patterns of orange,
          When the gods first forged the world,       the memory of home and guides                black, and white, is the avatar of a
          the task of painting the stars into the     his brethren back to their spawning          trickster god. Others believe it to be
          sky fell to a lonely young goddess.         grounds, and in rare cases even reshape      a powerful fey. None even agree if the
          Though eager, she balked at painting        human kingdoms.                              creature is unique, or if an entire race
          infinity, so instead she crafted an            Whether due to rarity or salmonic         of these elusive beings dwells in some
          energetic fish whose leaping and games      cleverness, anglers rarely land more         lost corner of the world.
          would splash stars across the sky. The      than a single salmon of wisdom                 Use the stats for a young nereid,
          fish’s antics so delighted the goddess      a century. These paragons offer a            applying the aquatic subtype and
          that she freed her creation into the        healthful meal and divine flavor. But        eliminating their land speed. A wishing
          nascent rivers far below, giving birth to   what changes the shape of politics is its    koi's beguiling aura works against
          the mehyt.                                  secondary fillet—a small, moist track        greedy creatures, rather than anyone
             Though difficult to find in the wild,    of flesh near the heart that grants a        attracted to women. In place of a
          many temples dedicated to creativity,       full measure of the fish’s cunning and       shawl, they treasure a glass fishing lure
          vitality, and the stars breed mehyt         insight to whoever eats it.                  with similar properties.
          as sacred animals, for their white-            Use the statistics for an advanced,       Benefits: Similar to genies, wishing koi
                                                                                                     can grant wishes for other beings,
          speckled backs mirror the night sky         celestial gar. For a Lord or Lady of          but never themselves. Once per
          above them and their roe incites vivid      Salmon, use an Animal Lord from               week, they may cast limited wish as
          hallucinations said to be painted in        Bestiary 3.                                   a spell-like ability (CL 15) on behalf of
          divine pigments. Mehyt rarely mate          Benefits: While a meal of salmon              another creature. The fish must roam
                                                        of wisdom puts all other salmon             the open seas to replenish its natural
          in captivity, so those few priests who       to shame, it is the tiny secondary           supply of magic, and a captive
          can cajol eggs from captive specimens        filet that men fight and die over.           wishing carp retains its intelligence
          command positions of great respect.          The delicate meat requires a full            and special abilities but cannot
          Benefits: If consumed by a divine            week and a successful DC 27 Craft            refresh any of its spell-like abilities.
            caster (as a spell-completion item),       (cook) or Profession (cook) check to        Market Price: Because of their
            a spoonful of mehyt roe casts the          smoke and prepare; failure on this           arcane abilities, a captive wishing
            faithful’s mind into the outer planes,     check destroys the meat. If prepared         koi is worth 4,100 gp for the single
            as per the contact other plane             successfully, eating the entire filet        limited wish they can grant before
            spell. The user always contacts            grants a permanent +2 inherent               exhausting their ability. They are
            the plane of a lesser deity and            bonus to a creature’s Wisdom.                rebellious and deceptive by nature,
            receives answers in the form of           Market Price: A single salmon of              making terrible servants.                Ω
            luridly bright images which may take       wisdom provides ample meat for ten


                                                                                                                Kobold Quarterly 20        75
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
       Book Reviews




          Book Reviews
          By William Banks, Ben McFarland, Wade Rockett, and Pierce Watters

                                                        in which she learns magic the hard way       of the man performing under the name
                                                        and suffers terribly. In many ways, hers     of Prospero, and the other is Marco, a
                                                        is the more interesting story of the two.    young foundling boy plucked directly
                                                           Grossman’s tales are always engrossing,   from an orphanage by the older
                                                        and the story moves rapidly. Like            sorcerer, who is sometimes referred to
                                                        The Magicians, The Magician King             as “…the man in the grey suit.”
                                                        is a somewhat flawed book, leaving             The children grow up and are trained
                                                        several loose ends untied, and making        in magic by their respective teachers,
                                                        a few illogical turns along the way;         who range from indifferent to cruel
                                                        nonetheless, it remains and enjoyable        in the treatment of their charges.
                                                        read; the reader truly wants to follow the   Nevertheless, Celia and Marco become
                                                        story to the end to learn what happens.      splendid adults.
                                                           Some of the action is definitely adult,     Eventually, both, who remain unaware
          the MagiCian king                             both sexually and violence-wise, so          of the other’s identity or the bet, become
          By Lev Grossman                               this is most certainly not a fairy-tale      attached to Le Cirque des Reves. This
          Viking Adult                                  for children. It is probably the second      nighttime circus is a marvelous invention
          ISBN: 978-0670022311
                                                        book in a trilogy, and the reader would      in tents of black and white, and it
          Hardcover, $26.95
          416 pages                                     most likely profit from reading The          displays many wonders and marvels for
                                                        Magicians, first. Recommended.               the enlightenment and delectation of


          T
                    he Magician King is the sequel                       Review by Pierce Watters    discerning revelers. Fans of the circus
                    to the bestselling Lev Grossman                                                  form a clique and follow along as it
                    novel, The Magicians. Roughly                                                    appears in new places and disappears
          speaking, these novels might be                                                            again, traveling on a magical train.
          described as “Harry Potter goes to                                                           Ultimately, The Night Circus is a love
          Narnia, and does semi-adult things.”                                                       story. Absolutely and positively, it is a
          In the Magician King, retired magician,                                                    love story. But the romance is quiet and
          Quentin, returns to the fantasy land                                                       different and magical, both literally and
          of Fillory, along with his magic school                                                    emotionally. It is also a fantasy with an
          alumni chums, Eliot and Janet, and                                                         occasional bit of horror that leaps up
          Quentin’s childhood friend, Julia.                                                         and grabs the reader by the throat.
            There, the four assume the roles of                                                        Although a completely different
          kings and queens of Fillory (Fillory                                                       book, this Victorian romance is
          always has two of each, and they must be                                                   reminiscent of Susanna Clarke’s
          from Earth), and do kingly and queenly                                                     Jonathan Strange and Mr. Norrell. Both
          things until all begins to change.                                                         are period pieces, both are romances
            The rulers of Fillory go on a lark and      the night CirCus                             of an unusual nature, both have a
          capture a future-predicting bunny, a          By Erin Morgenstern                          dream-like quality to the story, and
          somewhat frightening and unsavory             Doubleday                                    both contain moments of real horror.
                                                        ISBN: 978-0385534635
          hare. A huntsman drops dead, and a                                                           Erin Morgenstern’s The Night
                                                        Hardcover, $26.95
          quest begins, leading to the seeming          400 pages                                    Circus is light on the emotional and
          edge of the world, then back to Earth                                                      cerebral palate. Yet it is memorable.


                                                        T
          for Quentin and Julia. There is a trip to             he Night Circus begins with          It is a confection, perhaps an amuse
          Venice, a reunion with an old friend, and             two old magicians making             bouche which delights and intrigues
          an encounter with a very ancient dragon.              a bet in which they pit their        and then is gone. Read and enjoy.
            The quest is intermingled with              young apprentices against each other.        Highly recommended.
          chapters recalling Julia’s grueling odyssey   One apprentice, Celia, is the daughter                        Review by Pierce Watters


          76      Winter 2012
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
          wings oF twilight                           designers & dragons
          By Hans Cummings                            By Shannon Appelcline
          CreateSpace                                 Mongoose Publishing
          ISBN 101466411007                           ISBN 978-1-907702-58-7
          Paperback, $12.99; kindle eBook $2.99       Hardcover, $49.99
          254 pages                                   441 pages




          H                                           S
                    ans Cummings’ debut offering,            hannon Appelcline’s Designers
                    Wings of Twilight, is a well-            & Dragons is not just a history
                    written novel and a quick read.          of the roleplaying game
          It presents a familiar tale refreshingly    industry: it is the history of the
          split between two diverse groups            roleplaying game industry. You sense
          bound to collide in what seems like         this was the publisher’s intent as
          unavoidable violence.                       soon as you lay eyes on the thick,
            Reminiscent of Jacqueline Carey’s         heavy hardcover, bound in black faux
          Godslayer books, its unusual point of       leather with silver lettering. When
          view offers an uncommon and light-          Wolfgang handed it to me, I felt as
          hearted take from within the enemies’       intimidated as if he’d asked me to
          gates, while building investment in         do a short review of the Bible. For
          characters traditionally relegated to       all I knew, this beautiful tome was
          fodder for the heroes’ blades. The          written in Latin.
          secondary plotlines of self-discovery,        I needn’t have worried. Designers
          moral conflict, and romantic                & Dragons is a page-turner, with
          development mesh unobtrusively as one       engaging writing detailing the history
          group seeks out the Twilight Dungeon        of the hobby from the earliest days
          and the other seeks to defend it from an    of TSR through the rise, fall, and
          internal threat—with both struggling        surprising comeback of Catalyst
          against incompetent leadership.             Game Labs. The book’s informal tone
            While the setting is Cummings’            makes this massive topic as easy and
          invention, it will seem comfortably         enjoyable to read as a Choose Your
          familiar to regular fantasy readers, as     Own Adventure book.
          draconic trapsmiths, violent oroqs,           Which brings me to the book’s
          and sullen minotaurs populate               innovative format. Rather than
          the underground catacombs—all               presenting a straight timeline, the
          commanded by the reluctant and              book delves into the histories of
          somewhat self-deprecating character         individual companies in the order
          of winged, immolating Sarvesh.              of the earliest RPG publishers.
          There is a definite high-fantasy            It begins with TSR, moves on
          tone to this unpretentious, fun             to Flying Buffalo, then Games
          romp. It knows what it is, and it           Workshop, and so on. Sidebars
          knowingly winks at the reader as the        offering brief accounts of related
          entertaining story unfolds.                 publishers accompany each main
                         Review by Ben McFarland      company’s entry. Though small—


                                                                                               Kobold Quarterly 20   77
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
          and in many cases, short-lived—                                       If you like your steampunk very
          the related companies’ stories are                                    British indeed, and if you know who
          important to the RPG hobby’s                                          Lord Palmerston was, you should
          overall history, and Appelcline’s                                     already be reading the Burton &
          approach is quite clever. The reader                                  Swinburne series by Mark Hodder.
          can go through the book from start                                    If you just want a rip-roaring yarn
          to finish, or may, instead, follow                                    about adventures in the heyday
          the interwoven threads of several                                     of colonial exploration in Africa,
          companies’ histories aided by the                                     Mountains of the Moon has you
          “What to Read Next” sections.                                         covered there too.
            Designers & Dragons successfully                                       The book is straightforward, and
          covers the warts-and-all history of                                   it doesn’t require any knowledge of
          the RPG industry from a hobbyist’s                                    previous entries in the series, though
          perspective without grinding axes      Mountains oF the Moon          it is related to the Spring-Heeled Jack
          or taking sides. I highly recommend    By Mark Hodder                 story arc. No knowledge of Victorian
          it to anyone who’s passionate about    Pyr Publishing                 British bigwigs is required either,
                                                 ISBN 978-1-61614-535-4
          RPGs.                                                                 though most readers will quickly
                                                 Paperback, $16, eBook $11.99
                        Review by Wade Rockett   404 pages                      figure out that the Germans are
                                                                                the bad guys when the Count von
                                                                                Zeppelin shows up in London and
                                                                                makes mischief.
                                                                                   Sir Richard Francis Burton—
                                                                                the explorer and the translator of
                                                                                the Arabian Nights—is the main
                                                                                character in a big cast, and fiction
                                                                                may for once be stranger than truth.
                                                                                Burton is a king’s agent and a time
                                                                                traveler on the trail of assassins who
                                                                                have mastered various bits of biotech
                                                                                (here called Eugenics, a perhaps
                                                                                unfortunate word choice) and the
                                                                                action sequences are excellent: troops
                                                                                fight major engagements with bizarre
                                                                                weaponry in a style worthy of H.
                                                                                Rider Haggard’s Quatermain series.
                                                                                Hell, half the fun is spotting the
                                                                                historical characters (there’s tons of
                                                                                them, including Oscar Wilde as a
                                                                                cabin boy). The plot moves from
                                                                                London to a flying rotorship, to
                                                                                Africa and back, with saboteurs and
                                                                                action and mysteries thrumming all
                                                                                along the way.
                                                                                   Mountains of the Moon has exotic
                                                                                scenery and wild technology any
                                                                                fantasy or steampunk gamer will
                                                                                appreciate (and good DMs will
                                                                                borrow for their own cinematic
                                                                                finales!). It’s not going to win any
                                                                                literary prizes, but it’s a fun read for
                                                                                any steampunk fan.
                                                                                   Review by William Banks               Ω




          78      Winter 2012
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
                 Coming neXt issue!
              This Spring, Kobold Quarterly magazine gets holier-than-thou, addressing
              aspects of the Divine from saints and angels to heavenly messengers; from
              the ecstatic trances of the mystical shaman, to the somewhat more mundane
              process of just getting a proper temple built.

              Clerical Conflicts
                   Tim Connors will introduce us to religious hierarchies and the priests
                   who might or might not work with them. Canon law, priestly goals, and
                   how to build a temple will expand the options for your cleric, druid, or
                   oracle!
              Messengers of the Divine
                   David “Zeb” Cook returns to KQ’s pages with an overview of messengers,
                   visions, and the many faces that the divine might take when it appears in
                   your game world.
              The Shaman
                   A class with a different view on what’s holy, and how to access divine power in a new way!

              What else? Well, you’ll certainly find Monte Cook’s Game Theories. Beyond that, there’s a lot of interesting options
              for our editors to consider: a surprising herald of Tiamat, magical rings, a look at the Island of Morphoi, maybe
              some saints, and maybe some monstrous devils.

              Plus hey, it’s issue #21, so it can drink legally, right? You might see an article on mead, ale, and Those Darn
              Adventurer’s Taverns. Come see what the wood nymph brings us for the Spring Festival!


            OPEN GAME LICENSE Version 1.0a                                 or “Using” means to use, Distribute, copy, edit, format,              8. Identification: If you distribute Open Game Content You
            The following text is the property of Wizards of the Coast,    modify, translate and otherwise create Derivative Material of         must clearly indicate which portions of the work that you
            Inc. and is Copyright 2000 Wizards of the Coast, Inc           Open Game Content. (h) “You” or “Your” means the licensee             are distributing are Open Game Content.
            (“Wizards”).                                                   in terms of this agreement.                                           9. Updating the License: Wizards or its designated Agents
            All Rights Reserved.                                           2. The License: This License applies to any Open Game                 may publish updated versions of this License. You may use
            1. Definitions: (a) “Contributors” means the copyright and/    Content that contains a notice indicating that the Open Game          any authorized version of this License to copy, modify and
            or trademark owners who have contributed Open Game             Content may only be Used under and in terms of this License.          distribute any Open Game Content originally distributed
            Content; (b)”Derivative Material” means copyrighted            You must affix such a notice to any Open Game Content that            under any version of this License.
            material including derivative works and translations           you Use. No terms may be added to or subtracted from this             10. Copy of this License: You MUST include a copy of this
            (including into other computer languages), potation,           License except as described by the License itself. No other           License with every copy of the Open Game Content You
            modification, correction, addition, extension, upgrade,        terms or conditions may be applied to any Open Game                   Distribute.
            improvement, compilation, abridgment or other form             Content distributed using this License.                               11. Use of Contributor Credits: You may not market or
            in which an existing work may be recast, transformed or        3. Offer and Acceptance: By Using the Open Game Content               advertise the Open Game Content using the name of any
            adapted; (c) “Distribute” means to reproduce, license,         You indicate Your acceptance of the terms of this License.            Contributor unless You have written permission from the
            rent, lease, sell, broadcast, publicly display, transmit or    4. Grant and Consideration: In consideration for agreeing             Contributor to do so.
            otherwise distribute; (d) “Open Game Content” means the        to use this License, the Contributors grant You a perpetual,          12. Inability to Comply: If it is impossible for You to comply
            game mechanic and                                              worldwide, royaltyfree, non-exclusive license with the exact          with any of the terms of this License with respect to some
            includes the methods, procedures, processes and routines       terms of this License to Use, the Open Game Content.                  or all of the Open Game Content due to statute, judicial
            to the extent such content does not embody the Product         5. Representation of Authority to Contribute: If You are              order, or governmental regulation then You may not Use
            Identity and is an enhancement over the prior art and          contributing original material as Open Game Content, You              any Open Game Material so affected.
            any additional content clearly identified as Open Game         represent that Your Contributions are Your original creation and/     13. Termination: This License will terminate automatically if
            Content by the Contributor, and means any work covered         or You have sufficient rights to grant the rights conveyed by this    You fail to comply with all terms herein and fail to cure such
            by this License, including translations and derivative works   License.                                                              breach within 30 days of becoming aware of the breach. All
            under copyright law, but specifically excludes Product         6. Notice of License Copyright: You must update the                   sublicenses shall survive the termination of this License.
            Identity. (e) “Product Identity” means product and product     COPYRIGHT NOTICE portion of this License to include the               14. Reformation: If any provision of this License is held to
            line names, logos and identifying marks including trade        exact text of the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any Open Game                   be unenforceable, such provision shall be reformed only to
            dress; artifacts; creatures characters; stories, storylines,   Content You are copying, modifying or distributing, and You           the extent necessary to make it enforceable.
            plots, thematic elements, dialogue, incidents, language,       must add the title, the copyright date, and the copyright             15. COPYRIGHT NOTICE Open Game License v 1.0a
            artwork, symbols, designs, depictions, likenesses, formats,    holder’s name to the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any original                 Copyright 2000, Wizards of the Coast, Inc. System Reference
            poses, concepts, themes and graphic, photographic              Open Game Content you Distribute.                                     Document. Copyright 2000, Wizards of the Coast, Inc.;
            and other visual or audio representations; names               7. Use of Product Identity: You agree not to Use any Product          Authors Jonathan Tweet, Monte Cook, Skip Williams,
            and descriptions of characters, spells, enchantments,          Identity, including as an indication as to compatibility, except as   based on material by E. Gary Gygax and Dave Arneson.
            personalities, teams, personas, likenesses and special         expressly licensed in another, independent Agreement with the         Pathfinder RPG Core Rulebook. Copyright 2009, Paizo
            abilities; places, locations, environments, creatures,         owner of each element of that Product Identity. You agree not         Publishing, LLC; Author: Jason Bulmahn, based on material
            equipment, magical or supernatural abilities or effects,       to indicate compatibility or co-adaptability with any Trademark       by Jonathan Tweet, Monte Cook, and Skip Williams. The
            logos, symbols, or graphic designs; and any other              or Registered Trademark in conjunction with a work containing         Book of Experimental Might. Copyright 2008, Monte J.
            trademark or registered trademark clearly identified as        Open Game Content except as expressly licensed in another,            Cook. All rights reserved. Tome of Horrors. Copyright 2002,
            Product identity by the owner of the Product Identity, and     independent Agreement with the owner of such Trademark                Necromancer Games, Inc.; Authors: Scott Greene, with Clark
            which specifically excludes the Open Game Content; (f)         or Registered Trademark. The use of any Product Identity in           Peterson, Erica Balsley, Kevin Baase, Casey Christofferson,
            “Trademark” means the logos, names, mark, sign, motto,         Open Game Content does not constitute a challenge to the              Lance Hawvermale, Travis Hawvermale, Patrick Lawinger,
            designs that are used by a Contributor to identify itself or   ownership of that Product Identity. The owner of any Product          and Bill Webb; Based on original content from TSR. Kobold
            its products or the associated products contributed to the     Identity used in Open Game Content shall retain all rights, title     Quarterly issue 20, Copyright 2012, Open Design LLC, www.
            Open Game License by the Contributor (g) “Use”, “Used”         and interest in and to that Product Identity.                         koboldquarterly.com.




                                                                                                                                                                     Kobold Quarterly 20                    79
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
       Free City of Zobeck




          The Ruins of Arbonesse
          By Jeff Grubb
          Art by Jeff Preston




          L
                   ong before the human nations,           The Arbonesse is now two kingdoms.
                   the elves ruled here. They came      One is wrapped in the ocean’s bosom as
                   from elsewhere and built an          the home of the sea elves . This part of
          empire that dominated Midgard. They           the realm resisted that original calling,
          wove their magic deep into the forests,       and its people were transformed
          and they built their fey roads beneath        into sea creatures. Or that they had
          the skin of this reality. Valera and          transformed first, and engineered the
          the Domains of the Princes are their          sinking of their western kingdom in
          successor states, small children aping        revenge for their warped existence.
          at the grandeur of this elder kingdom.           The eastern region of the kingdom is
          They were the Elves of Arbonesse.             now what people think of as Arbonesse.
            Their own origin is lost in their own       In its prime it was a great forest tamed
          myths and legends. Some say they were         by the power of the elves. Arbonesse’s
          made by their gods, and others say that       woodlands were domesticated by                worst outright lies to protect the foolish.
          they created their deities. They controlled   arcane means and went feral only when         Some exiles wander the greater world, but
          a wild and vibrant land beyond the            abandoned by its masters.                     others protect their grandsires’ domains
          borders of the world. They taught their          As a result, the forest has an arcane,     with sword and bow. Some declare they
          dwarven slaves how to craft and their         fantastic nature. Ground cover is limited,    want to reclaim this land for themselves,
          kobold servants how to delve and their        forming an open arcade of thick, ancient      while others protect travelers from the
          human subjects how to sing. They              trees and a solid canopy. A traveler may      dangers still lurking within this land.
          supped with the first dragons and drove       find herself in the midst of an thickly-        Hidden portals lead to the winding
          the giants to the edge of the world.          overgrown hedge maze. Topiaries               fey roads, to the River Kingdoms
            And after ruling the heart of Midgard       have grown into twisted parodies of           themselves, where some elven kingdoms
          for many human lifetimes, they were gone.     themselves, and great palaces built among     thrive. From these safe homelands, the
          The reasons for their sudden departure,       the living branches or hidden beneath         elves still pour forth into this world.
          their great exodus, are still unclear, even   the roots of huge trees now left silent,      They have no patience for the races they
          to the elves that survived. Some say it       some falling into ruins, while others, kept   once ruled, and most are intemperate,
          was a curse uncovered in this land, or a      active through ancient spells, seem as if     haughty, and most of all powerful.
          disease spread from palace to palace by       their owners had just left them.              While an exile may have some pity for
          one of their many slave races. Some say          The animals are similarly magical          the other races, the Elves of the River
          something went horribly wrong in their        – hippogriffs, owlbears, and other            Kingdoms have nothing but scorn for
          own domain, requiring all colonies be         creatures breed in the ruins of ancient       the lesser races, considering them little
          abandoned. Some say they found a greater      glass palaces, while malignant vegetation     more than servants or foes.
          foe. And some say they found out who the      has spread through once-domesticated            And so the elven majesty lies in ruins,
          true owners of this world were and fled       woods. This is the land of lost pets,         part submerged, part wild, protected by
          back to their homelands.                      creatures once dear to the ancient elves      the lost children of its original rulers.
            So the world’s greatest domain was left     but now left to fend for themselves.          Those who trespass here find a world
          to lesser hands, and these races sought to       The elves are not gone entirely. The       of opportunity and potential treasure,
          unlock the secrets of the Arbonesse. The      Arbonesse Exiles remain, elves who have       though those treasures are mere scraps
          magics wizards found there could not          fled the River Kingdoms along the Fey         abandoned by a greater civilization.
          be controlled, and led to the devastation     Roads and seek to settle and raid their       And the descendents and protectors of
          of the Great Mage Wars, a and the             forefathers’ lands. They can tell many        those lands are more than willing to
          sinking of half the heart of Arbonesse        stories of the past, but they know that       deal with those who steal what belongs
          beneath the choppy sea.                       most are at best comforting tales, and at     to an elder, more powerful, race.


          80      Winter 2012
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
James Larsen (Order #51905805)
