--- PAGE 1 ---
TM
TM
Accessories every Loremaster needs to recruit players 
to the world’s greatest fantasy setting.

--- PAGE 2 ---
Written by Jon Hodgson
Additional Class rules by: Jacob Rodgers 
and David Rea 
Adventures in Middle-earth designed by 
Walt Ciechanowksi, Steve Emmott, 
Gareth Ryder-Hanrahan,  Jon Hodgson,  
TS Luikart, Marco Maggi, Dominic McDowall, 
Francesco Nepitello and  Ken Spencer
Creative Direction by Jon Hodgson
Art by Jon Hodgson and Sam Manley
Edited by Gareth Ryder-Hanrahan and 
Francesco Nepitello
Graphic Design and  Layout: Paul Bourne
Maps by Paul Bourne
Proofreading: David Rea and Jacob Rodgers
© Sophisticated Games Ltd 2017 
© Cubicle 7 Entertainment Ltd 2017
To find out more about Adventures in Middle-
earth, and to subscribe to our newsletter, 
please go to: www.cubicle7.co.uk
Product Identity: The following items are hereby identified 
as Product Identity, as defined in the Open Game License 
version 1.0a, Section 1(e), and are not Open Content:
All trademarks, registered trade-marks, proper names 
(characters, place names, etc.), new rules, classes, items, 
virtues, backgrounds, places, characters, artwork, sidebars, 
and trade dress. Open Game Content: The Open content in 
this book includes material taken from the Systems Reference 
Document. No other portion of this work may be reproduced 
in any form without permission.
Published by Sophisticated Games Ltd, 3 
Andersen Court, Newnham Road, Cambridge 
CB3 9EZ, UK and Cubicle 7 Entertainment 
Ltd,  Suite D3, Unit 4, Gemini House, 
Hargreaves Road, Groundwell Industrial 
Estate, Swindon, SN25 5AZ, UK
 
The One Ring, Middle-earth, The Hobbit, The Lord of the 
Rings, and the characters, items, events and places therein 
are trademarks or registered trademarks of The Saul Zaentz 
Company d/b/a Middle-earth Enterprises and are used 
under license by Sophisticated Games Ltd and their respective 
licensees. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may 
be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted, 
in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, 
photocopying, recording or otherwise, without the prior 
permission of the publishers. 
Based on The One Ring Roleplaying Game by 
Francesco Nepitello and Marco Maggi.
- credits -
- contents -
Introduction	
2
Who What Where	
2
The Purpose of this Adventure	
2
What you’ll Need	
2
Experience Awards	
3
The Story	
3
Rules Changes in Brief	
4
Running the Adventure	
5
Pregenerated Characters	
5
Lifstan, son of Leiknir 	
5
Beran of the Mountains 	
6
Beli 	
6
Caranthiel	
6
Trotter	
7
The Bride	
7
Part 1: 
Many Meetings	
8
Sights about Woodmen-town	
9
Useful names for Woodmen NPCs	
9
Part 2: 
The Journey Begins	
10
Full Journey Rules Summary	
10
Planning the Route	
10
Don’t Leave The Path!	
10
Assigning Tasks	
11
Peril Rating	
12
Embarkation Table	
12
Part 3: 
Along the Road	
13
Ideas for Things Seen on the Road	
13
Journey Events Table	
14
Part 4: 
Ambush!	
16
Eaves of Mirkwood Goblin Soldier	
17
Bags of Jewels and Gold	
17
Part 5: 
Celebration!	
18
Snorri, the smith	
18
Borri, the whittler	
18
Hár, the stone mason	
18
Ale and Smoke Rings and 
Roasted Pig	
19
Bed Time	
21
But my players hate this kind of fun!	
21
Part 6: 
Capture!	
21
Rowanhold	
21
The Plan in Action	
22
A Note on Playstyles	
22
Part 7: 
Explain Yourselves!	
23
Arrival Table	
23
The Audience	
24
Playing Gailavira	
26
Part 8: 
Warg Attack!	
27
Greymuzzle Hob	
27
Part 9: 
The Wandering Wizard	
28
Riddle Sheet	
29
Loremaster’s Map	
30
Player’s Map	
31
1

--- PAGE 3 ---
The Eaves of Mirkwood
 
- Introduction -
This short adventure is designed to give players a taste 
of Adventures in Middle-earth, the OGL setting for 5th 
edition. It is intended as a 2 to 3 hour experience that 
introduces some of the new rules and concepts found in 
Adventures in Middle-earth. It can be used to introduce a 
new group to the game, or with some adaptation, dropped 
in to any existing campaign.
Who What Where
Five years have passed since the events of The Hobbit. We 
find ourselves in Wilderland, or Rhovanion, the region 
of Middle-earth east of the Misty Mountains and north 
of Gondor. It includes Lake-town, Erebor (The Lonely 
Mountain), the newly rebuilt Dale, Rhosgobel, Woodmen-
town, Thranduil’s Hall, and the dark vastness of Mirkwood 
itself. Wilderland has a huge amount of territory and 
places familiar and strange to explore.
The dragon Smaug is dead, slain by Bard the Bowman, 
now King Bard of Dale. People all across Wilderland 
are finding new hope for the future. Trade routes are 
reopening, and the free folk of Wilderland are beginning 
to get to know one another again.  
As players, we know that a time of great strife is just a 
generation away: a shadow is deepening in Southern 
Mirkwood.  But for now this is a time of great exploration 
and discovery, a time to sally forth in search of adventure!
The Purpose of this Adventure
The idea of this scenario is to allow players to explore a bit 
of Wilderland, using the new rules found in Adventures in 
Middle-earth. 
Everyone should have fun, have time to speak, get to 
make some decisions, play out a journey and a battle, 
roleplay with one another and with engaging and 
familiar NPCs, and come away having had a great time 
in Middle-earth.
A two hour scenario isn’t long enough to show off every 
single part of Adventures in Middle-earth – some of the 
new rules will be shown in cut-down versions as a taster.
If you’re running short on time, either run Part 4 as a 
narrative description instead of playing out the fight, and 
compress the roleplaying in Parts 5 and 7.
What you’ll Need
• 
The 5e rules – these are available free online – or a 
hard-copy of the player’s rules. 
• 
It would be extremely helpful to have access to 
Adventures in Middle-earth Player’s Guide and 
Loremaster’s Guide. But Eaves of Mirkwood can be 
run without them.
• 
A passing knowledge of Middle-earth. You don’t need 
to be an expert, nor do the players. If you’ve seen 
the movies that will serve you well.  If you’ve read 
the books so much the better. The more you know of 
Middle-earth the more of its special atmosphere you 
can impart, but you do not need to be an expert.
2

--- PAGE 4 ---
• 
Time to read through this adventure – it’ll be tough to 
run it on the fly. We recommend you read it and make 
some notes.
Experience Awards 
Throughout this adventure you’ll see symbols in the 
margin. These indicate a chance for the Loremaster to 
award Experience Points for overcoming challenges. 
These opportunities are optional, to be made at the 
Loremaster’s discretion and in accordance with the 
method of levelling they have chosen. They might form a 
direct, numerical award, or a silently observed instance 
that counts towards gaining a whole level if enough are 
checked off. 
Every game will vary, but these Experience Awards have 
been calculated to offer a good chance for a typical 
company to advance to level 2 by the completion of 
the adventure. Eaves of Mirkwood makes use of the 
Experience Rewards by Challenge table for non-combat 
encounters. Just as a combat encounter should be scaled 
to reflect the size of your company, so too should these 
awards be scaled to match your group of adventurers. 
The symbols in red represent an individual achievement. 
Those in green are intended to be divided amongst the 
party.
Experience derived from battle is calculated according to 
the core rules – for the sake of simplicity and consistency 
there is no change there.
 
	
Challenge	
XP 	
Challenge	
XP
	
1/8	
25	
3	
700
	
1/4	
50	
4	
1,100
	
1/2	
100	
5	
1,800
	
1	
200	
6	
2,300
	
2	
450
 
The Story
King Bard summons adventurers to Lake-town to assist 
in the rebuilding of his kingdom! Our characters are at 
the very beginning of their adventuring careers: each is 
provided with a motivation to set out on the road and 
heed King Bard’s call to arms.  
 
Meeting for the first time in Woodmen-town, at the 
beginning of their quest to Lake-town, our heroes plan out 
their journey together as new friends.
 
The journey towards Lake-town goes awry, and our heroes 
come to the aid of a small band of wandering Dwarves. 
Their mutual foes defeated, they enjoy an impromptu 
evening’s feast. Tales are told, pipes are smoked, and a 
delicious pig roast accompanies the opening of a keg of 
beer.
The next morning brings some bad luck. The delicious pig 
was an offering to a dangerous Warg given by a nearby 
village of Woodmen, and they are not happy that the 
Company and their new friends have eaten it!  Taking 
them prisoner, the Woodmen march them off to the village 
elder to answer for their crime.
 
The audience in front of the Woodman elder is interrupted 
by a Warg attack. The Company must fight for survival!
 
Victorious, they enjoy another celebration, this time 
benefitting from the hospitality of the village with their 
blessing.
 
The following morning our heroes set out once more, and 
at the end of their journey encounter an old man in grey 
robes wearing a battered Wizard’s hat…
Introduction
Individual
Award
Group
Award
3

--- PAGE 5 ---
The Eaves of Mirkwood
Combat
Combat rules remain unchanged from the core 5e rules. 
All the character’s abilities are on their character sheets. It is 
recommended that you look them over so there aren’t any big 
surprises there.
Alignment and Corruption 
(page 180 of Adventures in Middle-earth Player’s Guide)
Alignment is not used. All characters in Adventures in Middle-
earth are intended to be broadly speaking “good”, and when 
they encounter evil, they fight it.  However the Shadow is 
always a temptation, always a risk. Adventures in Middle-
earth features a new Corruption system. Characters gain 
Shadow points for:
• 
Experiencing distressing events (Anguish), 
• 
Crossing or dwelling in an area tainted by 
manifestations of the Shadow (Blighted Places),
• 
Committing despicable of dishonourable acts 
(Misdeeds) – this may occur in this scenario – feel 
free to give the players a Shadow point whenever they 
commit a misdeed,
• 
Taking possession of a cursed or tainted item or treasure 
(Tainted Treasure).
In this scenario, there won’t be time for Shadow Points to take 
their full effect, but everyone should be aware that getting too 
many is a bad thing, and can lead to a player losing control 
of their character, and eventually being forced to retire the 
character all together.
Virtues 
(page 100 of Adventures in Middle-earth Player’s Guide)
Player-heroes have access to a series of powers called 
Virtues. These work similarly to feats. They are often 
powered by spending Hit Dice or Inspiration.
Journeys 
(page 164 of Adventures in Middle-earth Player’s Guide)
The Adventures in Middle-earth journey rules create 
a sequence of bonuses, penalties and engaging Middle-
earth events that make travelling great distances engaging, 
challenging and interesting, while increasing the feeling 
of being in the setting.  This adventure sets out a cut down 
version of the full journey system which will give your players 
a feel for how it works. 
Audiences 
(page 192 of Adventures in Middle-earth Player’s Guide)
When Player-heroes in Middle-earth encounter one of 
the great, powerful or wise, it is well to go about it in the 
proper way. Adventures in Middle-earth presents a system 
for determining the response of significant characters that 
player-heroes meet along the way.
New Skills 
(page 27 of Adventures in Middle-earth Player’s Guide)
Player-heroes in Adventures in Middle-earth have access to a 
few setting-specific skills, some hard to come by, and some 
near-essential.
Riddle
An accepted custom among many creatures, speaking in 
riddles is usually allowed among strangers meeting for the 
first time who want to speak guardedly. Use Intelligence 
(Riddle) checks to discuss a subject while concealing part of 
what you know, such as when explaining something about 
yourself without revealing your true identity. This skill is also 
used to gain helpful insight into spoken or written riddles.
Lore
Your Intelligence (Lore) check measures your ability to recall 
unusual and obscure information about old legends, ancient 
war gear, bits of song, rare artefacts, and the reading of runes. 
Lore replaces the Arcana skill; magic is an imprecise term, 
for folk use it to describe both the blessings of the Elves and 
the deceits of the Enemy. 
Shadow-lore
A dark branch of knowledge, Intelligence (Shadow-lore) 
checks allow you to share what you’ve learned about the ways 
of the Enemy and the various creatures that stalk through the 
dark places of Middle-earth. Where Lore deals with the past, 
Shadow-lore deals with the present and the rising threat of 
the Enemy’s many minions.
Traditions
Your Intelligence (Traditions) check measures your ability 
to recall the proper courtesies and etiquette expected by 
the various Free Folk cultures, along with some of their 
stories about their people and their respective histories. An 
Intelligence (Traditions) ability check is used whenever 
you wish to gain an Audience with someone of influence. 
Traditions also covers the knowledge of such religion as 
exists in Middle-earth. 
Rules Changes in Brief
4

--- PAGE 6 ---
Running the Adventure
The adventure is presented in nine key parts.
Part 1: Many Meetings
The players introduce their characters to one another in 
Woodmen-town.
Part 2: The Journey Begins
The players plan out their journey to the Forest Gate of 
Mirkwood.
Part 3: Along the Road
The journey is played out, showcasing the journey rules, 
with a fixed outcome for the purposes of this adventure.
Part 4: Ambush! 
The Company comes to the rescue of a band of wandering 
Dwarves.
Part 5: Celebration! 
The Company celebrate with the Dwarves, enjoying some 
Middle-earth themed roleplay.
Part 6: Capture! 
The characters are captured and taken into custody at the 
nearby village, Rowanhold.
Part 7: Explain Yourselves! 
An audience with the village elder. The heroes must decide 
how to explain their actions, and are introduced to an 
opportunity to help.
Part 8: Warg Attack! 
The climax of the adventure sees the characters fight for 
their lives against a vengeful Warg.
Part 9: The Wandering Wizard
The next morning, in the closing moments of the scenario 
the party meet Gandalf, and have the chance to accompany 
him into Mirkwood.
Pregenerated Characters
Each of the six pre-generated characters supplied with 
this adventure have a motivation for why they have come 
together on the road to form a company of adventurers. 
In a full length game, players create their own characters 
and work as a group to decide why they are travelling and 
battling together as a company. 
Character creation in Adventures in Middle-earth is 
designed to give players a lot of information about their 
character – not just their numerical abilities or rules-based 
skills, but motivations in life, suggestions on how they 
could be played at the table, and how they fit into Middle-
earth.  All characters in Adventures in Middle-earth have a 
Background, a Distinctive Quality, a Speciality, a Hope and 
a Despair. Between these features their character is defined.
For the purposes of this scenario, and to get the action 
going as quickly as possible, some additional information 
is supplied.
Lifstan, son of Leiknir – Barding 
Warrior
Having seen the defeat of Smaug the Terrible as a young 
man, Lifstan’s mind was awoken to the presence of great 
evil in the world. Troubled by these thoughts, he has 
travelled the lands, seeking the dangers that lie in the 
dark places of the world.
Ability scores: High Strength, high Charisma
Distinctive Quality: Adventurous. You enjoy seeking out 
new challenges and experiences. 
Speciality: Burglary. Finding what you seek often 
means finding a way into places where you’re not 
supposed to be.
Hope: I know that the Shadow will tremble the day we 
recover a lost relic.
Introduction
5

--- PAGE 7 ---
The Eaves of Mirkwood
Despair: I’m certain that when I find what I am looking 
for that it will be something that was better left alone.
Why Lifstan begins the game at Woodmen-town: 
You were forbidden by your father from answering 
Bard’s call until after you delivered a message to the 
elders of Woodmen-town. You performed the errand, 
parted company with his father’s men who left some 
days ago and now you want to get back.
Beran of the Mountains – Beorning 
Warden
Beran sees his role in life as that of a protector of the 
weak and innocent. Granted strength of arms, he seeks 
to look after those who need his protection. Beran has 
realised that doing so solely in his small corner of the 
Mountains is not enough. There is a greater need in the 
wider world.
Ability scores: High Strength, high Dexterity
Distinctive Quality: Trusty. You are someone people 
know they can trust.
Speciality: Enemy-lore. You focus much of your efforts 
against a single enemy, the one that vexes your people.
Hope: I would place myself in danger for a friend.
Despair: I know that when the agents of the Shadow 
come, I will be amongst the first to fall. 
Why Beran begins the game at Woodmen-town: You 
came down from the mountains to see what you could 
do in the wider world to help people. You heard tell of 
Bard’s Proclamation, and want to reach Lake-town. Your 
wandering has brought you to Woodmen-town. You’re not 
sure which way to go to get to Lake-town.
Beli – Dwarf of the Lonely 
Mountain Treasure Hunter
Having lost his father to the uncharted North beyond the 
Lonely Mountain, Beli has set out on the road to seek 
riches, and perhaps his lost family.
Ability scores: High Constitution, high Dexterity
Distinctive Quality: Cunning. Your sharp wit is a way in 
which you cope with the gravity of your burden.
Speciality: Dark Secrets. You are certain that your 
dreams touch the Shadow. You are learning all that you 
can about it. 
Hope: I am destined to strike a mortal blow against the 
Shadow.
Despair: I believe my dreams are being fed by the 
Shadow; they are leading me to my doom.
Why Beli begins the game at Woodmen-town: You 
crossed Mirkwood with a group of traders out of Erebor, 
performing menial tasks for them. They headed north, 
you decided to head south in search of adventure. Now 
you have heard Bard’s proclamation and wish to hurry 
homeward to help.
Caranthiel – Elf of Mirkwood Scholar
Having learned about her ancestors who fought against 
the Shadow, Caranthiel ventured out into wider Mirkwood. 
6

--- PAGE 8 ---
She has found much that troubles her, and she seeks to 
learn more about the Shadow and how it can be defeated.
Ability scores: High Intelligence, high Dexterity  
Distinctive Quality: Secretive. Your thoughts are your 
own and you are very difficult to read.
Speciality: Rhymes of Lore. Much knowledge is 
contained in the verses of poetry and song. You have 
learned to use the effect such compositions have on 
those with whom you negotiate to your advantage.
Hope: Only by joining forces can we hope to push back 
the Shadow.
Despair: The Shadow’s influence is too strong; my 
entreaties often fall on deaf ears.
Why Caranthiel begins the game at Woodmen-town: 
You have of late wandered the elf paths of Mirkwood, 
finally reaching Woodmen-town. There you heard of 
Bard’s Proclamation, and now seek to travel to Lake-town. 
This seems like an ideal opportunity to learn more of the 
wider world.
Trotter – Hobbit Wanderer
After a meeting with Gandalf the Conjuror at a party in 
the Shire, Trotter took to the road in search of the Grey 
Wanderer. Unlike most of his people, he longs to see all 
the sights that Middle-earth has to offer.
Ability scores: High Dexterity, high Constitution, high 
Intelligence
Distinctive Quality: Keen-eyed. You are adept at 
spotting stormy weather and other dangers before they 
can affect you.
Speciality: Story-telling. You’ve heard many stories 
while on the road and you have a gift for imparting them 
to others.
Hope: If you only live at home, then you have never truly 
lived.
Despair: I can never forge strong bonds; I’m always on 
the move.
Why Trotter begins the game at Woodmen-town: 
You have spent a year working your way Eastwards. King 
Bard’s summons reached you at the Old Ford, and you 
have resolved to head to Lake-town. You’ve dropped into 
Woodmen-town to resupply before heading onward.
The Bride – Woodwoman of 
Wilderland Slayer
The Bride seeks the Beast of Mirkwood who changed her 
life forever, slaying her bethrothed and many warriors 
from her village.
Ability scores: High Dexterity, high Constitution
Distinctive Quality: Grim. You can’t conceal your 
misery and it makes others uneasy around you.
Speciality: Leech-craft. The Company brought you along 
because you are the only one who can patch them up 
when they invariably run into trouble. 
Hope: I know that one day I shall rest by my fire again.
Despair: Fate hates me; I am constantly tossed into 
these dangerous situations in the hopes that the world 
will finally be rid of me!
Why The Bride begins the game at Woodmen-town: 
You have been heading east searching for the Beast of 
Mirkwood. Bard’s proclamation reached you recently, 
and you have resolved to head to Lake-town and see if you 
can find help for your quest.
Introduction
7

--- PAGE 9 ---
The Eaves of Mirkwood
- Part 1 -
Many Meetings
The players introduce their characters to 
one another.
Our fellowship of would-be heroes meets in Woodmen-
town, a small but thriving settlement under the gloomy 
eaves of Mirkwood.
 
It is spring, and the town is waking from Winter. Men 
and women drag rugs and blankets outside, and beat the 
winter’s dust out of them. Knee-deep ashes from fires kept 
burning all season long are cleared from the hearths, and 
the collection of firewood for next year begins. The town is 
a safe refuge in a sea of dark and threatening woods, but 
the slow pace of life among the Woodmen has made our 
heroes restless. All are keen to find travelling companions 
and head out into the wider world.
The companions meet on the grassy sward of the Market 
Green. Above the Green, atop the central hill of Woodmen-
town, all can see the richly decorated Great Hall. Inside 
it, the legendary Lamp of Balthi is kept safe, the greatest 
treasure of the Woodmen. On the Market Green the 
occasional travelling merchant lays out their goods, 
pig and sheep-herders drive their animals into pens, 
tradesmen meet to buy materials and sell their wares, and 
the local gossips gather to trade tales. 
The Dusky River that runs to the east of the town is 
still swollen with meltwater from the Mountains of 
Mirkwood. On the couple of jetties that poke out into 
the river, fisher-folk mend their nets, carve out new log 
boats, and tar their coracles in readiness for the fishing 
season to begin.
Allow the players a chance to introduce themselves, 
giving a brief description of their characters if they 
chose to do so.  As some of the Player-heroes are recent 
arrivals, the gossips want to know everything about them. 
Ask each character what they seek in Lake-town – give 
Inspiration to any player who works any of a Distinctive 
Quality, Speciality, Hope or Despair into their answer. 
The recent history and motivations given on each 
character sheet should quickly get things going. All the 
characters have been provided with a strong motivation 
to leave Woodmen-town and head to Lake-town.
 
Most of this part of the adventure will be taken up with 
introductions, but opposite are some useful scene-setting 
sights, should they be needed.

--- PAGE 10 ---
Sights about Woodmen-town
An old guide named Heva sits at the edge of the Market 
Green on a carved log stool. As a veteran traveller, 
who used to lead logging parties into the forest, she can 
give the Company advice on planning their upcoming 
journey. Guides who listen to her advice gain a +1 on their 
Embarkation Roll (see page 12).
 
A handful of children freed from their chores chase a 
wooden ball with sticks around the open areas of the town. 
Elders shout at them to stay inside the stockade, warning 
them that they’ll be eaten by Spiders if they stray. (Giant 
Spiders rarely dare to cross the Dusky River, but one does 
not grow old in Mirkwood without learning caution.)
The walls of Woodmen-town are built from a palisade 
of stout logs, sharpened at the top. Bunches of fragrant 
herbs can be seen hanging from the walls to ward off evil 
influences.
 
The palisade has a mixture of very ancient, moss covered 
sections, and much newer freshly cut and erected logs.
 
The houses in Woodmen-town are all rectangular long 
houses, with sloping shingled roofs that reach almost to 
the ground.
 
An inner palisade runs around the waist of the hill which 
is home to the Great Hall and elder council’s halls. Only 
those with business on the hill are allowed into this inner 
palisade.
 
Well-trained working dogs can be seen all around Wood-
men town, the Woodmen being masters of hounds that 
are kennelled at the north of the settlement and watch for 
any threat from the forest. Occasional excited barks can 
be heard, but no howls warn of danger.
 
The sound of timber being chopped is a constant refrain in 
Woodman-town.
 
Of note on the Market Green: 
• 
Odo, a shepherd who sells dried mutton as well as 
fresher meat. He grumbles that the ‘business up north’ 
– by which he means the death of the Dragon and the 
rebuilding of Dale – has caused all sorts of bother 
across Wilderland. Folk are travelling again, and there 
is more friendship and trade between the various Free 
Folk. Odo doesn’t like it – strange folk bring trouble, he 
grumbles. They don’t know the ways of the wood. 
• 
Amalina, a merchant from Mountain Hall selling axe 
heads and iron pegs, laughs at Odo’s dour complaints. 
She praises the Beornings, who now watch over the 
Old Ford across the Great River and keep travellers 
safe. If Beran of the Mountains or another Beorning 
is with the group, she thanks him for his people’s 
doughty defence of travellers.
• 
Old Ingund, a charcoal burner trading bundles of 
charcoal in a variety of sizes. He’s spent far too long 
wandering Mirkwood on his own, and mutters to 
himself about Spiders and eyes and Goblins. With 
a successful DC 10 Intelligence (Riddle) check, 
the characters learn that many Goblins fled into 
Mirkwood after their defeat at the Battle of Five 
Armies, and are only now finding their way to the 
western eaves of the wood. 
• 
Barald, a rotund, shaggy-haired wood carver sits on 
a patterned blanket, carving wooden talismans.  He 
will make any reasonable trade with a polite player-
hero for a lucky carved talisman of a heartwood 
wolf’s head, which he swears will keep them safe. 
Carried by a Guide this talisman gives a +1 result to 
any Embarkation Roll made on a journey beginning 
in the Eaves of Mirkwood. Beyond this place it has no 
power to protect its owner.
Our heroes have stayed in some of the many guest-houses 
in Woodmen-town. These used to be inhabited by but are 
now abandoned as the population has dwindled. 
Useful names for Woodmen NPCs:  
Male Names: Alaric, Alberic, Arnulf, Baldac, Barald, 
Eboric, Frideger, Garivald, Grimbald, Hildebald, Iwgar, 
Malaric, Merovech, Odovacar, Ramnulf, Roderic, Sigeric, 
Sigibert, Theuderic, Wulferd.
Female Names: Adosinda, Amalfrida, Avagisa, Avina, 
Beranhild, Brunihild, Gailavira, Garsendis, Geleswinta, 
Gelvira, Grimhild, Hermesind, Heva, Hilduara, 
Radegund.
Part1: Many Meetings
1/8
9

--- PAGE 11 ---
The Eaves of Mirkwood
- Part 2 -
The Journey
Begins
Once the Company have introduced themselves and 
agreed to travel together to Lake-town, it is time to plan 
the journey. If they need in-character advice then Heva the 
veteran logging guide is on hand at the edge of the Market 
Green to help.
This adventure uses a cut down version of the full journey 
rules found in Adventures in Middle-earth Player’s Guide, 
(page 164) both for speed and simplicity.
Full Journey Rules Summary 
(steps used in this scenario are in bold):
• 
Players assign tasks and plan route.
• 
Loremaster determines Peril Rating of the journey.
• 
The Guide makes an Embarkation Roll: 1D12 
modified by the Guide’s Proficiency Bonus 
plus half their Wisdom bonus minus the Peril 
Rating.
• 
The Loremaster either relays the result, or 
optionally hints at it.
• 
Determine the number of Journey Events.
• 
Events are created by rolling a d12, potentially 
modified by the Embarkation result.
• 
Events are played through, noting down the 
result for reference.
• 
The Arrival roll (d4) is made, and results applied.
In the Player’s Guide, and expanded with additional 
options in the Loremaster’s Guide, players take different 
tasks for the journey, determine their route, and make 
rolls to see what happens along the way. Journey Events 
replace wandering monsters, and add a variety and depth 
to proceedings, reflecting the importance of journeys 
in Middle-earth. There are no teleportation-spells or 
convenient caravans to whisk adventurers from one spot on 
the map to another; getting There and going Back Again 
are a major component of Adventures in Middle-earth. 
For this scenario much of the randomness will be removed 
and the breadth of available options reduced, but you 
might not want to let your players know that. A roll of dice 
behind a Loremaster screen is always good for building 
excitement.
Planning the Route
First of all the players need to decide on their route 
to Lake-town.  Hand them a copy of the Player’s Map 
provided at the back of this adventure. Poring over a map 
of Wilderland is a core part of the Adventures in Middle-
earth experience.
Travelling straight through Mirkwood would be absolute 
folly, and take months (see Don’t Leave the Path! below). 
Don’t Leave The Path!
If the party decide to head directly into Mirkwood the denizens of Woodmen-town will do their best to dissuade them. 
Mirkwood, beyond the immediate surroundings of Woodmen-town, is a nightmare place. The air is thin and hard to 
breathe. There is no food or water.  If the Company will not be dissuaded then they march to their doom. They find that 
any trace of a path quickly disappears. The trees turn black, and all light disappears. Birdsong fades to an oppressive 
silence that rings in the ears.  The only animals that can be seen are the occasional sinister black-furred squirrels that 
stare blankly down from the twisted dead branches overhead. Progress becomes slower and slower, until by the best 
reckoning the Company are barely travelling a few miles a day. Black-thorned briars and acres of stinging nettles 
all impede the traveller, treacherous, bottomless pools of brackish water covered in skeletal leaves await the unwary. 
Supplies run thin, until eventually the Company will be forced to attempt to return to Woodmen-town. Once hope has 
turned to folly, ask for a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw for each day of travel. Each failure earns 1 Shadow point.
10

--- PAGE 12 ---
Anyone in Woodmen-town, and indeed common sense, 
can tell them this. Mirkwood is widely feared and with good 
reason. Even an Elf of Mirkwood like Caranthiel knows 
not to stray far from the paths of her people.The Bride (a 
woodwoman herself) and Trotter the wanderer, will also 
know that travel through Mirkwood is extremely dangerous. 
Traders and those with horses usually take the long way 
around the forest, going north and passing through the 
Grey Mountain Narrows. While this way is much safer 
than it used to be, after so many Orcs and Goblins fell in the 
Battle of Five Armies, it’s still a long and arduous detour.
The fastest and safest route, which will be resoundingly 
recommended by Heva, will take the Company westward 
out of the Eaves of the Forest, and then northward to the 
Forest Gate, where the Elf Path begins its winding course. 
Both Beli and Lifstan travelled to Woodmen-town along 
the Elf Path, and know this is the best way back to Lake-
town. Travel in the forest is slow and dangerous, but 
beyond its reach the going is much easier, game and fresh 
water are more plentiful.
Assigning Tasks
Once the Company have agreed on their route they must 
decide who will do what on the journey.  There are four 
tasks to be assigned, each roughly summarising what they 
will be doing for the length of the trip. The tasks divided 
between the Company are:
Guide - In charge of all decisions concerning route once 
embarked, rest, and supplies. A good Guide has a high 
Wisdom and the Survival proficiency.
Scout - In charge of finding safe camp sites, opening new 
trails. Scouts rely on Stealth and Investigation.
Hunter - In charge of finding food in the wild. Hunters 
seek success on Survival checks.
Look-out - In charge of keeping watch. Look-outs rely on 
their abilities in Perception.
Ask the players to decide who takes which role.
With the exception of the company’s Guide, more than 
one Player-hero may be assigned the same task (in other 
words, there may be more than one character acting as 
Look-outs, or more than one hero going hunting regularly), 
but normally no character may assume more than one 
role at the same time (posing as the group’s Hunter AND 
Scout, for example). 
If there’s more than one person assigned to a task then 
nominate a lead Scout, Hunter or Look-out. That character 
is the one who makes the check and gains Advantage from 
the assistance of the other player-heroes performing the 
Help action on that task.
If a task goes unfilled, any relevant checks for that task 
which come up are taken with Disadvantage.
Each character already has everything they need for travel 
in their equipment list. If the company wish to do some 
roleplaying to gather supplies in Woodmen-town then 
they are free to do so.
Part 2: The Journey Begins

--- PAGE 13 ---
The Eaves of Mirkwood
Peril Rating
In a regular Adventures in Middle-earth adventure the 
Loremaster would now calculate the Peril Rating of the 
journey, using a hexed and shaded Loremaster’s map to 
determine how tough the chosen route is. 
For the purpose of this adventure the Peril Rating is 2.
Now the Guide must make an Embarkation Roll using 
1d12. This represents a combination of actions and 
knowledge – while others in the Company prepare 
supplies and equipment, and look to the preparedness of 
their weapons, the Guide is busy asking around for local 
advice, thinking of previous journeys, consulting maps, 
recalling fragments of folk-wisdom and the like.
The Embarkation Roll is modified as follows: the Guide’s 
Proficiency Bonus plus half their Wisdom bonus, minus 
the Peril Rating of the journey, which in this instance is 
2. The result of the roll is used on the Embarkation Table 
below. This has been modified for this adventure. The full 
version on page 167 of the Adventures in Middle-earth 
Player’s Guide contains a much wider variety of options. 
In this short scenario, featuring a relatively short, 
interrupted journey, players won’t feel the full effect of the 
journey rules (but should still have some fun!)
 
Read, or paraphrase, the result to the players. The Guide 
should make a note of both the numbered result and its 
effects.  The result may be referred to during the following 
parts of the journey. Gathering together everything they 
need for their journey, the Company say their goodbyes to 
the hard-eyed Woodmen of Woodmen-town and embark 
on their adventure!
2 or less: A Fell & Foreboding Start
The Company sets out under a pall of doom. A sense of 
foreboding and oppressive menace seems to loom at every 
turn and misfortune appears to dog their steps. Tasks seem 
harder, and will remain so until the feeling of doom can be 
shaken off. As a result, each character receives 1 point of 
Shadow and all rolls taken during Journey Events are made 
with Disadvantage until a roll is successfully made, at which 
point the dark mood will lift for that hero.
3-4: The Keen Eyes of the Enemy
The Company has the misfortune to have chosen a path 
upon which fell creatures and evil men are more likely to be 
encountered. Depending upon their stature among the Free 
Peoples of Middle-earth, it is possible that they have come 
to the attention of agents of the Enemy. As a result, they will 
need to work hard to avoid encountering those who would 
wish to do them harm: a brooding feeling of danger seems 
to pervade their senses throughout the journey, as if unseen 
eyes watch them at every turn. Modify all results on the 
Journey Events tables by +1 and the first roll made during 
these encounters should be made with Disadvantage.
5-6: Foul Weather
The rain falls constantly, the wind chills to the bone, the sun 
beats down unrelentingly, frost numbs toes and fingers. Rest 
is hard to find, sleep is elusive and every mile walked feels like 
three. As a result, each member of the Company immediately 
gain one level of Exhaustion.
7-8: Fine Weather
Each morning brings a beautiful sunrise that raises spirits 
and fills all who see it with hope for the day ahead, when 
rain falls it is cooling and soothing to a weary traveller, the 
wind seems to be no more than a light breeze and snow or 
frost sparkle beneath clear, bright skies, creating majestic 
and breath taking vistas. As a result, each member of the 
Company may ignore the first level of Exhaustion that they 
accrue during this journey.
9-10: Paths Both Swift and True
Whether as a result of consulting good quality maps, referring 
to the knowledge of local travellers or simply due to an innate 
knack for finding the easiest path, the Guide has planned 
a route that will allow the company to travel swiftly and 
directly to its destination. Rolls on the Journey Events table 
are modified by +1.
11 or more: With Hopeful Hearts & Clear Purpose
The Company embarks with light hearts and a sense of hope. 
They are resolute and determined to cleave to their path, 
regardless of hardship or setback. Accordingly, each member 
of the Company has Advantage until the first time they fail an 
ability check during this journey.
Embarkation Table
12

--- PAGE 14 ---
- Part 3 -
Along the Road
The Embarkation table will have provided some 
information for the departure of the Company from 
Woodmen-town. Hopefully they are leaving in good 
spirits. But perhaps they must endure poor weather, or a 
sense of impending doom. Whichever way they depart, 
they set out on the road out of Woodmen-town, through 
the Eaves of Mirkwood.
Travel in Middle-earth is both a core aspect of the 
setting, and an opportunity to build atmosphere and a 
sense of place. To help with this, games of Adventures in 
Middle-earth use the Journey Events table. These rolls 
should be interspersed with some general description 
of the landscape the Company are heading through. Do 
add in some description to the journey that will have 
no mechanical effect, but which serves to heighten the 
atmosphere and enjoyment of playing in Middle-earth. 
In the novels, Tolkien takes great pains to describe the 
sights and sounds of the landscape, with a great fondness 
for trees, colours, the weather, flora and fauna. The 
description of the scenery often evokes a mood or 
atmosphere – be it melancholy, numinous, curious, 
or reinforcing to the idea that this is an ancient and 
mysterious place. Invite the players to describe how 
their characters approach traveling to reinforce their 
characters within the setting. All of this adds to the feeling 
of being in Middle-earth.
As mentioned, between these descriptions come Journey 
Events, rolled on the Journey Events table. These give an 
encounter to play through, and often result in adding 
modifiers to the success of the Journey, or giving the 
Player-heroes some bonus. If they’re unlucky they risk 
negative modifiers and Exhaustion.
How many rolls are made is determined by the length 
of the Journey, and the terrain it passes through. For the 
purposes of this short adventure there will be just one 
randomly determined Journey Event, with many possible 
results removed from the full table. 
In the full rules it would be possible, depending on the 
route taken, to experience up to 4 events on this journey, 
and each has a chance of affecting the next.
The Loremaster should now roll 1d12, modified by any 
result from the Embarkation roll that gave a modifier 
and look up the result on the Journey Events Table below.
In all cases, the DC of checks made during a journey is 
determined by adding the Peril Rating of the journey 
to a base of 12. The Peril Rating for this journey is 2, 
so the base DC for checks on this journey is 14.
In the full rules, Journey Events provide multiple 
suggestions for possible outcomes, so they can be reused 
many times over. Here we have selected just one possible 
option for each result in this adventure.
Ideas for things seen on the road
Your journey passes through a wide field strewn with 
grey boulders and deer running between them in the 
distance.
Your Company hikes past a stand of great emerald 
ash trees, one of their number fallen years before, 
covered in moss, the others inclined towards their 
fallen comrade.
Using many fords you cross over the various courses 
of a branching stream that rises and sinks through the 
heather covered hillsides.
The road passes through great copses of ancient trees, 
running one into another, pierced by clearings thick 
with bracken.
The path changes through the day. In the morning it 
was little more than a track used by wild sheep, deer 
and goats. By lunchtime it is composed of great dressed 
slabs of grey stone, risen and broken now, but clearly 
carefully placed by ancient hands long ago.
Part 3: ALong the Road
13

--- PAGE 15 ---
The Eaves of Mirkwood
2 (or less): An Obstacle
An ancient stone bridge across a steep gorge and fast flowing 
stream has collapsed, cutting off the path ahead. The 
Company must work together to make a safe crossing. The 
Guide must make a Wisdom (Survival) ability check and 
each of the other Company members must make their choice 
of Wisdom (Survival) or Strength (Athletics) ability check.
If all of the checks are successful, the Company has worked 
well together, making the crossing and feeling a sense of 
satisfaction from their unity. As a result, the Guide’s Arrival 
roll will benefit from a +1 modifier. 
If half or more of the checks are successful, the crossing 
is made with some difficulty and no bonus or penalty is 
incurred. 
If less than half of the rolls are successful, but not all fail, the 
Company has struggled to overcome the obstacle and each 
of them immediately gains a level of Exhaustion.
If all the rolls fail, the company is forced to backtrack to bypass 
the obstacle. Each of them suffers a level of exhaustion and 
the Guide’s Arrival roll is subject to a -1 penalty.
3-4: The Wonders of Middle-earth
The Company finds itself presented with a awesome vista: 
toward the end of their day’s travel a spectacular sunset glows 
across the tops of the trees, illuminating the surrounding 
area in with a rich golden light. Everything appears in sharp 
focus.
Each member of the Company must make a Wisdom check 
or Intelligence (Investigation) check (their choice).
If successful, they see the beauty of the scene and feel 
invigorated, immediately recovering one level of Exhaustion.
If unsuccessful, they instead see the sheer expanse of the 
Wild; hard paths yet to be walked, steep and daunting hills 
to be climbed and immediately suffer a level of exhaustion. 
If all members of the Company are successful, they receive 
a +1 bonus to the Guide’s Arrival roll. If all fail, the Guide’s 
Arrival roll incurs a -1 penalty. 
5-6: A Hunt
The Hunter sees tracks left by some deer that would likely 
prove a far better meal than their travelling rations.
The Hunter must make a Wisdom (Survival) ability check 
to hunt down this game. If the roll is successfully made by 5 
or more, the prey is brought down and a great feast is had, 
restoring one level of Exhaustion and giving a +1 bonus to 
the Guide’s Arrival roll. 
If the roll is successful, the Company enjoy a hearty meal 
and each may remove one level of Exhaustion.
If the roll fails, the hunt was unsuccessful and the Company 
spend a hungry night, resulting in each immediately gaining 
a level of Exhaustion.
If the Hunter fails their roll by 5 or more, the hunt was a 
disaster, pulling the Company off course and leaving them 
with nothing to show for their efforts but sore feet and 
growling bellies. As a result, each gains a level of Exhaustion 
and the Guide’s Arrival roll becomes subject to a -1 penalty.  
7-8: A Fine Spot for a Camp
The Scout spots a location that has the potential to be a safe 
and comfortable place to make camp. It is an ancient, ruined 
building, tumbledown, but easily defensible, and with plenty 
of fallen wood for a fire within. Camping here allows the 
Company to rest a little easier on their journey. The Scout 
must make an Investigation check as the Company draw 
close to the site.
If the roll succeeds by 5 or more the camp site is all the 
Company could have hoped for, and they may benefit from 
a long rest in addition to recovering a level of Exhaustion. As 
an added bonus, the Guide will receive a +1 modifier to their 
Arrival roll. 
Journey Events Table
14
1/2
1/2
1/8
1/8

--- PAGE 16 ---
If the roll is simply successful, the Company has an 
undisturbed night, and if needed each may recover a level 
of Exhaustion.
If the roll fails, the campsite proves to be less than it might 
have been. The Company spends a restless night, beset by 
feelings that they are being watched perhaps, or discovering 
that the spot they have chosen is rocky and uncomfortable or 
prone to flooding. They awake weary and dispirited and gain 
a level of Exhaustion.  The night is a poor one and the only 
memories they carry with them of the camp are those of hard 
knocks and a final, unfulfilling rest. The Guide’s Arrival roll 
is subject to a -1 modifier.
9-10: A Lingering Memory of Times Long Past
The Company witnesses, in the distance, a travelling 
company of Elves, making their way towards the Grey 
Havens in the West. The Elves are too far away for the 
Player-heroes to catch up with them, and the Elves seem 
to melt away into the mist. With good fortune and a light 
heart, the Company will be uplifted by this sight, sensing 
something hopeful for the future in this glimpse into the 
past. With poor fortune, the Company will be filled with a 
sense of doom, seeing the decay of lost glory and the end of 
hope. 
Each member of the Company should make a Wisdom 
check. If successful, they are filled with hope regarding their 
journey and their struggles against the Shadow and gain 
Inspiration. If they make the roll by 5 or more they are so 
positively affected by the sight that they may also remove 
a level of Exhaustion. Additionally, if at least half of the 
Company is successful, a +1 modifier may be applied to the 
Guide’s Arrival roll. 
With a failed roll, they see only the fleeting nature of life and 
the fall of all that is good, and must make a DC 15 Wisdom 
saving throw to avoid gaining 2 points of Shadow. 
If they fail the roll by 5 or more, they feel morose and wearied 
by the scene and suffer a level of Exhaustion in addition to 
the Shadow points. Additionally, if more than half of the 
Company fail their saving throws, a -1 modifier must be 
applied to the Guide’s Arrival roll.
11 (or more): A Place Touched by the Shadow
The essence of something dark and terrible lingers in 
a place the Company pass through. It is the site of some 
ancient battle, haunted still by the shades of the fallen. That 
said, even the darkest of Shadows may hide something 
bright and good.  The Look-out must make an Intelligence 
(Investigation) check to become aware of the darkness 
surrounding this area before the Company blunders too 
deeply into it.
If the roll is a success by 5 or more, the Company witness 
some sign that reaffirms their hope in the struggle against 
the Enemy. Perhaps they see evidence of the downfall of 
whatever evil thing once lived here, perhaps bright sunlight 
bursts through brooding clouds to bathe the darkened place 
in bright light, lifting the spirits of all who witness it. 
Whatever the reason, each member of the Company 
may remove one point of Shadow and gain Inspiration. 
Additionally, the Guide will receive a +1 bonus to their 
Arrival roll.
On a successful roll, they manage to avoid the pervasive 
sense of corruption that lingers here and may count 
themselves lucky. Accordingly, the Guide receives a +1 bonus 
to their Arrival roll.
If the Look-out fails their roll, the Company has wandered 
into the heart of the area and feels the dark nature of the 
place touch their hearts. Each hero must make a DC 15 
Wisdom saving throw to to avoid gaining a point of Shadow. 
If the Look-out’s roll fails by 5 or more, some dark thing 
still lurks here, ancient and evil, and the Company have 
disturbed its slumber… Something terrifying begins to 
unearth itself, and the Company must flee in great haste, 
gaining an additional level of Exhaustion each, and each 
gaining Disadvantage on their next skill check.
Part 3: Along the Road
15
1/2
1/8

--- PAGE 17 ---
The Eaves of Mirkwood
- Part 4 -
Ambush!
The party encounter wandering Dwarves 
and both are ambushed by Goblins...
After a few days on the road, it’s time for things to get lively. 
Rather than a random Journey Event, this next encounter 
is a plotted part of the adventure. It’s up to you whether 
you give the players the impression that this is occurring 
randomly or not.
As the day’s travel comes to an end,  the sun westering 
behind the larch trees that run close to the path on either 
side, the Player-heroes begin to catch sight of ancient 
carved stones amongst the trunks and roots.  
As they walk, the sporadically appearing fallen stones are 
seen more frequently, and the Company realise they are in 
the ruins of some ancient settlement.  
A successful Wisdom (Perception) check gives up a giant 
carved head of some ancient Mannish king, roots and 
moss lying thick across his troubled brow. An unsuccessful 
Perception check means the Company does not realise the 
nature of their discovery until they are upon it. A convenient 
handhold might suddenly be revealed as the nose of the 
statue. Another Perception check reveals a giant paw print 
in the mud just off the path, close to the fallen stone head. 
A Shadow-lore check will identify it as belonging to a Warg 
– the oversized wolf-like ally of Goblins.
As the Player-heroes investigate this, and perhaps begin 
to wonder what else they might find here, or if there might 
be a suitable campsite nearby in the ruins, the sun dips at 
last out of sight, and blue twilight falls.
The air is split with a series of shrill shrieks. A rasping horn 
blast sounds tunelessly nearby, and a shout of “Baruk 
Khazâd! Khazâd ai-mênu!” echoes through the trees.
In the next clearing, the Company sees a small group 
of Dwarves locked in battle with a group of Goblins. As 
the heroes advance, from the thickets around them burst 
Goblins, spears at the ready, spittle flying from their 
snaggle-toothed mouths. Have the Goblins make a single 
Stealth check against the best passive Perception of the 
heroes. If successful, the heroes are Surprised for the first 
round of combat.
There is a Goblin for each Player-hero, and they must fight.
The battleground contains a fallen tree to climb up onto to 
make things interesting:

--- PAGE 18 ---
• 
A fallen tree provides total cover from ground level. 
• 
Use of a full movement action allows a creature to 
climb onto a fallen tree, allowing Advantage on attack 
rolls as long as they stay on the tree. Jumping down is 
considered normal movement. 
• 
Creatures on a tree trunk gain a +2 modifier to a shove 
action on opponents below.
Allow and encourage the players to use the tree – it’s a 
good idea to make fights in Middle-earth well rooted in 
the scenery. The Adventures in Middle-earth Loremaster’s 
Guide contains options for adding interesting scenery. 
During the fight the heavens open and a heavy downpour 
soaks everyone. Let the fight continue, adding more 
Goblins as needed to make the players feel truly, although 
briefly, threatened. Goblins are a mortal threat in Middle-
earth, not throwaway monsters to be harvested for XP! 
Whether you want to run this battle to the last Goblin, or 
have them throw down their scimitars and flee when loss 
seems inevitable is up to you – the players might enjoy a 
decisive victory and the chance to use all their powers, 
or they may appreciate advancing the story more quickly. 
Use your best judgement. As the heroes achieve victory, so 
do the beset dwarves.
Bags of Jewels and Gold
Players might expect that slain foes have treasure to 
be harvested. Goblins rarely carry much of interest, 
and what they do carry is broken, foul or in some way 
inferior or flawed. Outside of this adventure, robbing 
bodies, especially those of opponents not of the Enemy 
could well cause the automatic gaining of a Shadow 
point. Let your players know ahead of time if they 
could gain Shadow from their deeds.
Eaves of Mirkwood Goblin Soldier
Small Humanoid (Orc-kind)
STR 
 11 (+0)
DEX 
12 (+1)
CON 
8 (-1)
INT 
10 (+0)
WIS 
8 (-1)
CHA 
8 (-1)
Armour Class 14 (Orcish Leathers, shield)
Hit Points 7 (3d6-3)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Stealth +5
Senses darkvision 60 ft, passive Perception 9
Languages Orcish, Westron
Challenge 1/4 (50xp)
Nimble Escape. The Eaves of Mirkwood Goblin 
can take the Disengage or Hide action as a bonus 
action on each of its turns.
Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the 
Goblin Soldier has Disadvantage on attack rolls, 
as well as on Wisdom (Perception) checks that 
rely on sight.
Actions
Bent Sword. Melee Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 
5ft, one target. Hit: 4 (1d6+1) slashing damage
Spear. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +2 to hit, 
reach 5ft or range 20/60 ft, one target. 
Hit: 3 (1d6) piercing damage or 4 (1d8) piercing 
damage when used as a melee weapon.
Part 4: Ambush!
17

--- PAGE 19 ---
The Eaves of Mirkwood
- Part 5 -
Celebration!
The Company celebrate with the Dwarves, 
while enjoying some Middle-earth themed 
roleplay.
Once the battle is done, the Dwarves thank the companions 
and introduce themselves while they wipe down their axes 
and swords. They are:
 
Snorri, the smith
The leader of the gang of three, Snorri is a snowy haired, 
wily old Dwarf. He stands four feet tall. He wears a dark 
grey cloak and has an eyepatch over his left eye. This 
doesn’t stop him making good use of the gold hilted sword 
that hangs from his baldric. His leather pack contains plain 
but well-made smith’s tools. His good eye is like a bright 
pebble, and it is clear that he doesn’t miss much. 
Snorri’s voice is a gravelly croak after years at the forge. 
He is a thoughtful chap, not quick to anger or pass 
judgement.  He identifies the leader of the Company and 
shakes their hand in greeting.
 
Borri, the whittler
Borri is the youngest of the trio, and stands at three feet, 
nine inches in height. He wears a green hooded cloak 
with a golden tassel on the hood. His hair and beard are 
red, and shorter than is normally seen on a travelling 
Dwarf. Lively and inquisitive, he has a wooden whistle in 
his satchel, which he enjoys playing whenever there is a 
chance to do so. Borri carries a set of wood working tools, 
which he can turn to almost any fine task, be it carving 
toys, or whistles.
 
Borri speaks quickly, and often asks obvious questions. 
His inexperience can make him seem less clever than 
he actually is. Borri smokes a long stemmed pipe. Borri 
will make a point of shaking everyone’s hand a little too 
eagerly, a little too quickly, for a little too long.
 
Hár, the stone mason
The tallest of the three, Hár stands some four feet six 
inches tall.  He wears a blue cloak over a dull grey corslet 
of mail. His hair is iron grey, and his full beard is kept 
neatly combed. Hár carries an axe and a broad-bladed 
knife hangs from his belt. In his knapsack he keeps a 
leather roll of fine stone working tools, and a drum and 
beater. He has a fine deep singing voice.
 
Hár is an exceptional judge of character. He will listen 
more than he speaks, and when he does speak it is slow 
and deep, and only when he has something of use to say. 
18

--- PAGE 20 ---
Often he will simply nod or shake his head and suck on 
his short stemmed pipe.
When it comes to greetings, Hàr keeps his hands firmly in 
his belt.
 
Ale and Smoke Rings and Roasted Pig
Snorri urges everyone to get out of the rain, and away 
from the scene of the battle, indicating that they have a 
safe camp nearby.  The Dwarves can be trusted, and lead 
the party out of the rain to the lee of a pile of ancient 
masonry and the roots of a fallen tree, where they’ve built 
a fire and set a camp. 
A fat pig roasts on a spit above the fire; as soon as the 
Dwarves return to their camp with the Company, Borri 
hurries forward to get the spit turning again, in case the 
pig becomes blackened on one side. 
 
Snorri quickly gets the fire blazing again to ensure no 
more Goblins come near, and the Dwarves set about 
drying their cloaks and those of the Company before the 
welcome blaze. The camp has plenty of logs and stones 
on which to sit, and the Dwarves make everyone feel most 
welcome.
This section of the adventure is a welcome break from 
travel, and is intended to be much more reminiscent of 
The Hobbit than The Lord of the Rings. The Company can 
relax and have some fun roleplaying with the Dwarves. 
Everyone should forget their troubles for a while.
 
The Dwarves will introduce themselves and explain that 
they are wandering craftsmen. Like so many of their kind, 
they have made their living wandering the highways of 
Wilderland, taking whatever work they can find that fits 
their skills.  While they talk, Borri will whittle away at a 
whistle for whichever Company member he likes the most, 
and will present it as a gift later in the evening – either 
shyly if he feels any romantic connection, or boldly if he 
gifts it in simple friendship.
 
The Dwarves intend to cross Mirkwood and head for 
Erebor, the Lonely Mountain, now that the Dragon is dead. 
They all have kin there, and are very keen to return home. 
Snorri hopes to find his sons, from whom he was parted 
as they each sought work as a smith. Borri longs to see 
the wondrous sights of Erebor, since he was born on the 
road. He longs to have a home in one place. Hár will not 
give up his story easily, but he is returning to Erebor in the 
hope of finding his wife, lost to him for many years since 
the coming of the Dragon, Smaug. He will not elaborate 
on this sad story.
 
Around the fire the following activities can be enjoyed. 
There’s no need to do all of these – but do make sure the 
Company enjoy the roasted pig. If you have time there’s 
no reason not to play through all of the activities.
 
Ale
The Dwarves produce a small keg of ale and open it in 
celebration of the victory over the Goblins. Borri passes 
round wooden cups, and everyone makes a toast to 
victory. Snorri offers another toast – to Borri, for catching 
the delicious pig they’re all about to eat.
 
For every mug of ale a player-hero drinks there is a chance 
they will fall asleep on their watch later. Throughout the 
evening’s celebration keep a note of how many cups of 
strong ale the characters have drunk. The Dwarves will 
casually offer more drinks throughout the evening.
 
Riddles
Hár loves a riddle. At some point in the evening he will 
suddenly deliver a riddle in his deep sonorous voice, and 
glare at the Company, daring them to answer before a 
smile cracks his stern face. 
The party may well agree to enter into a riddle contest. 
This can either be played out ad hoc, or Player-heroes can 
Part 5: Celebration
19
1

--- PAGE 21 ---
The Eaves of Mirkwood
employ Riddle skill checks to both know riddles and their 
answers. A sheet of riddles is provided at the end of this 
adventure to use as handouts where needed.
Singing
After several cups of ale have been enjoyed, and the 
Dwarves have asked the Company to tell some of their 
stories, Hár will produce his drum, and Borri his whistle. 
They strike up a tune, and Hár sings this song:
 
The Mountain was young, the valley green
Such a place they’d never seen
They came from far, they came from wide
With hammer and pick they delved inside
 
When Dúrin’s folk carved open a door
To the riches lying ‘neath Erebor
 
A many-pillared hall of stone
They mined and dug out their new home
The delver dug, the pick gave sound
Rubies, emeralds, opals found
 
When Dúrin’s folk carved open a door
To the riches lying ‘neath Erebor
 
A sturdy hearth, a golden throne
Plates of gold, thick walls of stone
A row of warriors stout and proud
Girt for battle, heads unbowed
 
When Dúrin’s folk carved open a door
To the riches lying ‘neath Erebor
 
None heard his wings, none felt his breath
But a hot North wind brought with it death
The lintel broke, the stone floor cracked
The treasures of heath and home were sacked
When Dúrin’s folk carved open a door
To the riches lying ‘neath Erebor
Smoke Rings
Snorri is an expert at blowing marvellous smoke rings. 
After a few cups of ale, he produces his pipe, and the other 
Dwarves follow suit. Dwarves of the Road play an ancient 
Game of Smoke Rings. They declare what shape they 
will attempt to blow, and then make their attempt. Each 
smoker has 3 tries to score as many points as possible. 
Legend has it that different pipe weeds, and different kinds 
of pipe can provide an advantage.
Smoke rings are blown using either an experienced 
smoking 
(Wisdom) 
or 
naturally 
gifted 
smoking 
(Dexterity) ability check. Of course, those proficient 
with the pipe benefit from their Proficiency Bonus. The 
DC depends on the smoke ring attempted:
The Game of Smoke Rings
Series of tiny rings
DC 12
1 point
Small, but perfectly 
formed, spinning ring 
DC 13
2 points
Medium sized ring, 
through which flies a small 
ring
DC 14
3 points
The Grower
DC 15
3 points
The Shrinker 
DC 16
4 points
The Giant’s Ring 
DC 17
5 points
The Dragon
DC 18
8 points
Players of the game can choose to huff up a load of deep 
breaths to lower both the Difficulty by one, and the resulting 
points for success by one. The Dwarves find this entirely 
laughable and amateurish behaviour, but will allow it.
 
Snorri will gift the winner (even if it is himself!) with 
an ornately carved pipe he’s been keeping for special 
occasions. Smoking this pipe gives excellent powers of 
concentration, and given the chance to smoke it, grants 
the smoker a +1 bonus to a Riddle check once per long 
rest. It is also a great pipe to use in the Game of Smoke 
Rings, giving +1 to all rolls made as part of that game.
 
Eating Roasted Pig
The highlight of the evening is the roasted pig. Cooked 
over the fire, and well-tended by Borri, and eaten under 
the open sky, the pork is absolutely delicious. This is by far 
and away the best meal the Company have had since even 
20

--- PAGE 22 ---
before they met at Woodmen-town. Everyone enjoying the 
meal recovers all depleted Hit Dice, and removes all levels 
of Exhaustion gained on the road.
If anyone asks, Borri claims he caught the pig in a snare. 
With a successful DC 15 Intelligence (Investigation) or 
Wisdom (Insight) check, a Player-hero can determine 
that Borri’s lying – he didn’t catch the pig in a snare. 
He actually found it in what he thought was someone 
else’s snare: specifically, the staked rope near where the 
Company fought the Goblins. It’s more likely that the 
someone else left that pig tethered there…
 
Bed Time
Once everyone has had a chance to talk with the Dwarves, 
and enjoy some of the activities around the fire, eventually 
comes time to sleep.  If no one suggests setting a watch, 
the Dwarves are feeling quite merry and are happy to 
wrap themselves in their cloaks and sleep unguarded. As 
the companions drift off into dreams, they seem to hear 
distant angry howling – too far away to be a danger to 
them tonight, but enough to sow nightmares as they sleep.
In the early hours of the morning, when the Player-hero 
who has drunk the most ale is on watch, things take a 
darker turn...
But my players hate this kind of fun!
Not every group is interested in singing songs, blowing 
smoke rings or engaging in riddle contests. It is 
entirely possible that you are playing with a set of 
people who find this kind of thing uncomfortable, and 
play roleplaying games to enjoy a tactical challenge 
with a side order of resource management. Your party 
might be all Boromirs and no Pippins!
 
Fear not. Simply describe what they get up to, perhaps 
asking for some out of character suggestions of how 
each character enjoys the evening, and gloss over the 
whole thing. They have a marvellous time, blow smoke 
rings, eat pork, drink ale, enjoy the company of the 
Dwarves, and go to sleep satisfied.
- Part 6 -
Capture!
The characters are captured and taken into 
custody at the nearby farmstead.
The delicious pig which the Player-heroes will have 
enjoyed so much the night before did not belong to the 
Dwarves. It was raised by the folk of a nearby farmstead, 
and left staked out in the wilderness as an offering to 
placate a Warg-king named Greymuzzle Hob.
 
Rowanhold
Rowanhold is a fortified farmstead, inside a simple 
palisade. There are no more than a score of inhabitants 
in total. They are close kin to the Beornings and the 
Woodmen, but they kneel to no lord or master, and do not 
acknowledge Beorn or the Woodman-elders or any other 
as their chief.
The settlement is ruled by a matriarch, the mother and 
grandmother of many of those who dwell there. Gailavira 
is in late middle age, but is clearly in good health, if a 
little tired. She has seen the long seasons in the eaves of 
Mirkwood wax and wane, and believed there was little 
new under the sun. But in the last two years Rowanhold 
has suffered increasingly ill fortune. Goblins are regularly 
sighted around the fringes of their meagre fields. Parties 
seeking timber, game and firewood were menaced, and 
more recently attacked. Several small-holders have been 
slain. 
Their meagre livestock has been carried off by successive 
Goblin raids, and most recently by a huge Warg, which 
the villagers have named Greymuzzle Hob. They tried to 
hunt the monster, but it eluded them and killed two of 
Gailavira’s sons. 
Rather than fight the beast, they came to an arrangement 
with the monster. Each month, they leave a pig out for 
Hob to eat, and in exchange, the Warg spares them. 
Part 6: Capture!
21

--- PAGE 23 ---
The Eaves of Mirkwood
Now, the player-heroes are unwitting accomplices in a 
theft, and have endangered Rowanhold. When the folk of 
Rowanhold heard Greymuzzle Hob’s furious howls, they 
realised that someone had stolen their offering, breaking 
their bargain with the beast.
 
The holders have survived a long time in these unforgiving 
woods, and they are not without guile nor skill.  Using 
lassos of leather thongs, stout ropes and killing mallets 
from the slaughter house, the villagers mean to capture 
the thieves and bring them to justice.
 
The Plan in Action
Whenever the Player-hero who drank the most ale is 
on watch, the villagers sneak into the camp. They are 
struggling to stay awake, and only snooze for a moment, 
when the villagers are upon them. Throwing sacks over 
the heads of anyone sleeping, and binding their prisoners 
tight, there is no chance of escape.
 
The Dwarves do not awake from their slumber before they 
are tied tight by the wily Woodmen.
Bound hand and foot, the Company and their new friends 
are driven at spear point toward the village.
A Note on Playstyles
Some players will not like this kind of event. It does 
quite deliberately remove a lot of their agency for a 
short time. Some players may need to feel like they 
have a chance to escape.
 
There are a couple ways to handle this. But if 
necessary, it could be used as a goad to compel the 
Company to comply with clearing their names. Snorri 
should be the mouth piece for this. "Stay your hands, 
friends, we have wronged these people. I have wronged 
these people". Then explain out of character that they 
now know they have been complicit in a crime, and it 
will advance them towards a state of corruption if they 
attempt to dodge the circumstances - doubly so if they 
use violence. The Dwarves will be absolutely horrified 
if any of the Player-heroes attacks a villager.
Also remind the players that these folk are kin to the 
Woodmen and the Beornings. If the player characters 
flee, they will be seen as outlaws and bring shame to 
their families.

--- PAGE 24 ---
- Part 7 -
Explain
yourselves!
An Audience with the village elder. The 
heroes must decide how to explain 
their actions, and are introduced to an 
opportunity to help.
The folk of Rowanhold want justice. They are good people 
who have been unfairly wronged and endangered, not 
malevolent foes. While the Company are treated roughly, 
they are not beaten or deliberately hurt in any way. 
As they are pushed and prodded and pulled by ropes 
towards the farmstead they are disarmed, and their 
possessions removed.
 
Their captors will say little, beyond “You stole our pig”, 
“You shouldn’t have eaten our pig”, “That was our pig”, 
“Gailavira will decide what happens to you”
The farmstead itself looks poorly maintained. The palisade 
is in need of repair in several places. More usually the 
Player-heroes would expect to see smoke coming from every 
smoke hole of the settlement, but only a few seem to have 
fires burning.  The people they are pushed passed as they 
enter the gates are drawn and wan. They look tired, and 
hungry. The Company are pushed into an empty building 
and left, tied hand and foot, on the rush strewn floor.
At this point the Journey is well and truly over.  The 
Company must make a roll (1d4) on the Arrival table 
below, applying any modifiers they may have accrued 
during prior Journey Events.
 
The Company receives an additional -1 to the roll to 
represent the despair of being captured.
 
Escape is difficult, but players will doubtless try. The 
Dwarves discourage this, having heard the villagers say 
the pig was stolen.  They favour waiting the situation out, 
and explaining. It is best not to drag this scene out – it is 
the build-up to an Audience, rather than a situation the 
Company need to escape from. Moving the time forward 
rapidly will help with this.
 
1 or less: Weary to Their Bones
In spite of last night’s festivities, the journey has taken a heavy 
toll on the spirits of the Company. The memories of any good 
fortune they may have experienced along the way now seem 
distant and intangible. Each member of the Company must 
make a DC 14 Wisdom saving throw to avoid receiving 2 
points of Shadow. 
2: Tall Tales and Great Deeds
In spite of their capture, the Company arrives at Rownahold 
with the tales of their journey on their lips, and their spirits 
high. This joyous mood is contagious to all but the most dour 
of folk they may encounter. Accordingly, the Company receives 
Advantage on all checks pertaining to social interaction. This 
bonus will also apply if they should seek an Audience at their 
destination. The bonus will remain until they fail at one of 
these checks. 
3: Grimly Determined
The many leagues that the Company has travelled have filled 
them with a sense of clear purpose regarding their goals, 
dark though the path ahead may be. As a result, the Guide 
will receive a +1 bonus to their next Embarkation roll.  
4 or more: Inspired and filled with Hope.
The Journey has served to reaffirm the Company’s 
dedication to their struggles and to their bonds with each 
other. Together they have weathered hardships, faced 
dangers and persevered and their faith in themselves and 
each other seems unshakeable. As a result, each member 
of the Company may remove 2 points of Shadow and gains 
Inspiration.
Arrival Table
Part 7: Explain Yourselves!
23

--- PAGE 25 ---
The Eaves of Mirkwood
A while later a young man brings them some water and 
bread, leaving it within reach, but not getting close enough 
to be attacked.  He seems very frightened of the Company 
and the Dwarves. He hurriedly asks “Are you in league 
with Greymuzzle Hob?” before rushing away without 
waiting for an answer.  Another man stands guard with an 
old spear in the doorway.  They leave, securing the door.
The Dwarves are deeply regretful of their actions. If 
needed, their reactions to the situation can serve to guide 
the players into realising that they have done wrong and 
must seek to put it right, rather than lash out or take 
vengeance on the village.
 
Borri relates the story of how he found the pig. He thought 
it was caught in some other hunter’s trap, and stealing 
that would have been crime enough, but he was hungry. 
Recognising his good fortune, he quickly dispatched it, 
and that was that – pork for dinner. He now realises to 
his shame he should have thought harder about where it 
came from.
If the Company eavesdrop on the goings-on in the 
farmstead outside, they hear Gailavira arrange for 
another pig to be brought out and shackled in the same 
place as the first one. (This attempt to placate the Warg 
will come to nothing in Part 8, for Greymuzzle Hob is 
faithless and cruel, and was looking for an opportunity 
to break its bargain with the farmstead and attack again.)
 
Eventually, as twilight begins to fall, a group of poor-
looking men and women enter the empty longhouse 
prison, bearing a selection of rush torches, spears and 
farming tools. They tell the Company that they are to 
stand before Gailavira and explain their actions.
 
The characters are taken, still bound and unarmed, to the 
largest longhouse at the centre of the farmstead.
 
If at any point during this Audience section, it looks as if 
the player-heroes will forfeit their honour and attempt to 
attack the villagers, then skip forward to Part 8: the Warg 
will attack at that point.
 
The Audience
When a company of Player-heroes meet someone 
important, or where the interaction is significant to 
the plot, then the Audience rules come into play. These 
rules provide structure, consistency, and allow a Player-
heroes’ origin and standing to come into effect. Usually 
this occurs when a company of Player-heroes need to 
request something from some kind of official, or powerful 
personage, and the Loremaster doesn’t just want to rely 
on their own judgement, or penalise those who’s strength 
is not roleplaying in character.
 
For the purposes of this adventure you’ll use a simplified 
version, tailored to this scenario – this isn’t a situation 
where the players approach in a neutral way requesting 
aid – they are prisoners, trying to win their freedom. 
Equally Gailavira is no fool, and realises there could be 
something to be gained from them. Since everyone is level 
1 there won’t be much differentiation based on level – only 
on origin and ability scores.
 
The Company are led and pushed into the centre of the 
smoky hall. A dais stands before the hearth, and on it sits 
a tall wooden chair. Furs are laid over it, and on them 
sits a proud grey haired woman. Her clothes, while not 
24
1/2

--- PAGE 26 ---
fine looking to the eyes of an Elf, Barding or Dwarf, look 
impressive enough to a Beorning or Woodman. The fabrics 
are died a deep red and orange, and they are edged with 
inkle loom woven designs. A fur-trimmed cloak with a fine 
square silver brooch sits on her shoulders.
 
She speaks directly to the Company, in a clear well-spoken 
voice.  Her piercing grey eyes are hard to hold for long. 
Clearly this is a woman who has seen a lot, and lived to 
tell the tale.
“Who are you to come here and steal our pig? You will tell 
me your names and intention here in our lands, and if I 
do not like what you have to say I shall keep your swords 
here, and cast you out without them. Make me angry and 
I will keep you here too. Speak.”
 
One member of the Company must make a DC 15 
Intelligence (Traditions) check to to introduce the group.
 
The choice of which hero will make the initial introduction 
is an important one. Gailavira will respond better to a 
familiar face like a fellow Woodman or a Beorning. Equally 
though, it is important to be able to pass the check. The 
Bride is not the most quick-witted of the Company, and 
Beran is not much cleverer. Caranthiel on the other hand 
has a good chance of being looked upon favourably as 
an Elf of Mirkwood, and has a high Intelligence. At the 
other end of the scale, Gailavira has never seen a Hobbit 
before, and there is very little chance that she’ll trust such 
an odd creature asking her for favours. Trotter also has 
middling Intelligence, so isn’t a good bet at all. It’s up to 
the players to figure this out.
 
The result of this first check determines Gailavira’s initial 
reaction and attitude towards the Company. This sets the 
base DC for a Final Audience Check, which determines the 
ultimate success (or failure) of the interaction.
Gailavira’s Starting Attitude on a 
successful Intelligence (Traditions) check:
Culture 
(Character)
Attitude
DC for 
final roll
Bardings (Lifstan)
Generally Neutral
DC 12
Beornings (Beran)
Generally Friendly 
DC 11
Dwarves (Beli)
Generally Neutral 
DC 12
Elves of Mirkwood 
(Caranthiel)
Generally Friendly 
DC 11
Hobbits of the Shire 
(Trotter)
Unknown 
DC 13
Woodmen 
(The Bride)
Generally Favoured 
DC 10
Gailavira’s Starting Attitude on an 
unsuccessful Intelligence (Traditions) check:
Culture 
(Character)
Attitude
DC for 
final roll
Bardings (Lifstan)
Generally Askance 
DC 13
Beornings (Beran)
Generally Neutral 
DC 12
Dwarves (Beli)
Generally Askance
DC 13
Elves of Mirkwood 
(Caranthiel)
Generally Neutral
DC 12
Hobbits of the Shire 
(Trotter)
Generally 
Mistrustful 
DC 14
Woodmen 
(The Bride)
Generally Friendly
DC 11
 
Part 7: Explain Yourselves!
25

--- PAGE 27 ---
The Eaves of Mirkwood
In this Audience, the Player-heroes must do their best to 
convince Gailavira that they are of good character and 
have something to offer. The better they can do this, the 
better they will fare.
 
Playing Gailavira
As a mature and wily leader, Gailavira is neither easily 
swayed, nor stupid. She is aware that to keep her people 
united justice must be seen to be done this day. However 
she is not naïve. She knows that the Company were 
probably simply hungry, and have been thoughtless more 
than actively malicious. With a show of strength, this 
could be an opportunity to either assert her power, or 
perhaps if the Company prove trustworthy, do better for 
the village. 
All this means that she will want to make the Company 
sweat, to assert her position. But she will want to find a 
good resolution – perhaps money or goods for the loss 
of the pig, or even better, have these fighting men and 
women defeat Greymuzzle Hob.
 
This also means, out of character, the Company will get a 
scolding, but are unlikely to face being locked up unless 
they foolishly chose to mock her in her own hall. This is 
also a good taste of the way things work in Middle-earth. 
Characters are not simply free to do anything they want, 
and bonds of honour and service are important dramatic 
hooks.
The Company and their players should realise they have 
done wrong, and aim to make amends. Gailavira could 
become a powerful friend. She will not tolerate being 
treated as a fool, nor disrespected in her own hall. It is 
clear that if the Company is foolish enough to threaten 
real violence, the villagers will cut them down with spears 
and pitchforks. 
 
During the Audience, the following modifiers to the final 
roll may be earned by the party. Each band may only 
be earned once, but all bands may be earned – so if the 
Company disrespected her authority, her people and 
refuse to see reason, they only gain a single -2 modifier. 
If during the audience they change their tack, show 
contrition and make an offer of payment they will receive 
one +1 to their final roll in addition to the -2.
Modifiers
-2
The Company disrespects her authority 
The Company disrespects her people
The Company refuses to see reason
The Company mocks or insults the memory of 
Gailavira’s dead sons
+1
The Company shows contrition 
The Company speaks reason 
The Company makes an offer of payment 
The Company defers to Gailavira’s authority 
The Company mention their desire to do good and 
help King Bard
The Company respectfully suggests that making 
offerings to the Warg was the wrong course of 
action
+2
The Company makes Gailavira look good  
The Company makes Gailavira look wise 
The Company makes a reasonable claim of 
kinship, either spiritual or blood ties
The Company makes an offer of assistance to 
defend the village, or help rebuild it
The Company blames the dwarves for everything 
and argue that they have nothing to answer for 
(abandoning the dwarves like this is worth at least 
1 Shadow point apiece). 
Once the conversation is wrapping up, the companions may 
choose who will make the final roll from those who have 
spoken, using the DC generated by their introduction, and 
adjusted by any modifiers accrued during the audience.
Results
Failure
Gailavira determines to keep the party hos-
tage. As they are led away, skip forward to 
Part 8.
Success 
by 0-2
Gailavira decides to release the Company but 
hold onto half of their goods in tithe for the pig 
Success 
by 3-4
Gailavira decides to release the Company 
with all their goods in return for a boon 
Success 
by 6+
Gailavira decides to release the company and 
become their patron, giving them adventure 
hooks in the future, and giving them the 
chance to open Rowanhold as a sanctuary
26

--- PAGE 28 ---
- Part 8 -
Warg Attack!
The climax of the adventure sees the 
characters fight for their lives against a 
vengeful Warg.
As Gailavira delivers her judgement a shout goes up 
outside the hall, followed by the sounds of commotion 
and running feet beyond. All inside look around, suddenly 
nervous; all thoughts of admiration for their wise leader 
forgotten in a moment. Then comes a terrible sound of 
breaking timber and a baleful, roaring howl fills the air, 
chilling marrow-deep. A voice speaks from the darkness:
“Gailavira! I am hungry now, and your scrawny pigs will 
not satisfy me. Send out your children, Gailavira. Send 
out your bravest sons, so I may kill them too and drink 
their hot blood. Send out your suckling babies and their 
mewling mothers, so I may eat my fill. Send them out, or 
you all die.”
 
Greymuzzle Hob! Greymuzzle Hob is come!
 
No matter the outcome of the Audience, Gailavira calls for 
the Company to be cut loose and their weapons returned 
from where they were stored behind the dais. “Can you 
fight? If not, learn now! If yes, then we draw swords 
together this day, be you friend or foe!” and in her hand is 
a shining blade of rippled steel.
And from outside comes a dread voice in answer. “So be 
it.” The doors of the hall burst open, and in rushes the 
night and with it Greymuzzle Hob.
 
Greymuzzle Hob is a fearsome black-furred Warg, a giant 
wolf, with burning coals for eyes. Its coat is matted and 
slick with old blood. It reeks of death.
 
Greymuzzle Hob is accompanied by many Goblins, who 
will occupy the Dwarves and the fighters of Rowanhold 
and mostly don’t engage the Player-heroes directly. If 
you have more than four Player-heroes, add one Goblin 
Soldier to the fray per hero above four. 
The fire in the hearth and all torches in the hall are 
initially extinguished by the Warg’s entrance – this could 
be the result of dark sorcery, or simply the gust of wind 
from the doors being flung open.  The torches are out, but 
the hearth fire is smouldering. 
Greymuzzle Hob
Large Monstrosity (Warg-kind)
STR 
 18 (+4)
DEX 
16 (+3)
CON 
16(+3)
INT 
7 (-2)
WIS 
12 (+1)
CHA 
9 (-1)
Armor Class 14 (natural armour)
Hit Points 42 (5d10+15)
Speed 50 ft.
Skills Perception +3, Stealth +5
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 14
Languages Wargspeech, Westron, Orkish
Challenge 2 (450 XP)
Fear Aura. Any creature hostile to Greymuzzle 
Hob that starts its turn within 10 feet of it must 
make a DC 11 Wisdom saving throw, unless 
Greymuzzle Hob is Incapacitated. On a failed save, 
the creature is Frightened until the start of its next 
turn. If a creature’s saving throw is successful, 
the creature is immune to Greymuzzle Hob’s Fear 
Aura for the next 24 hours.
Fear of Fire. Greymuzzle Hob is fearful of fire. If a 
torch or other flame comes within 10 feet of it then 
Greymuzzle Hob suffers Disadvantage on its attack 
rolls. In addition, Greymuzzle Hob is not able to 
use its Pack Tactics ability.
Keen Hearing and Smell. Greymuzzle Hob has 
advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that 
rely on hearing or smell.
Pack Tactics. Greymuzzle Hob has Advantage on 
an attack roll against a creature if at least one of 
Greymuzzle Hob’s allies (including Goblins) is within 
5 feet of the creature and the ally isn’t incapacitated.
Actions
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5ft, one 
target. Hit: 11 (2d6+4) piercing damage. If the target 
is a creature, it must make a DC 13 Strength saving 
throw or be knocked Prone.
Part 8: Warg Attack!
27

--- PAGE 29 ---
The Eaves of Mirkwood
It is possible for the company to relight torches and 
stoke up the fire to trigger Greymuzzle Hob’s fear of fire. 
Relighting a torch or stirring the fire takes an action and 
requires a DC 10 Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) check. 
When the battle is over, everything has changed. The 
Company is no longer looked on with suspicion or scorn. 
All debts are repaid, and the folk of Rowanhold are nothing 
but grateful. Gailavira orders the Warg skinned, and sets 
in motion the repairing of the broken palisade.  Snorri 
and his companions agree to aid in the rebuilding. The 
Company will be most welcome to help, or to take their 
rest in the great hall.
That night a celebration is held. What meagre stores the 
village holds are opened, and a simple feast is enjoyed by 
all.  Snorri teaches the villagers the Game of Smoke Rings, 
and songs are sung late into the night.
- Part 9 -
the Wandering
wizard
The next morning, in the closing moments 
of the scenario, the party meet Gandalf, 
and have the chance to accompany him 
into Mirkwood.
A gentle spring dawn casts a fragile yellow light across the 
farmstead. Serious repairs to the palisade begin with the 
rising of the sun, and the sound of axes and mallets wakes 
the company. They slept in Gailavira’s hall as honoured 
guests.
 
Realising that our heroes will be keen to continue their 
journey, and somewhat keen to forget imprisoning them, 
the villagers begin to appear at the repaired doors of the 
hall with gifts for their journey, supplies for the road, 
clearly meagre by normal standards, but great gifts from 
so poor a people.
The Dwarves decide to stay a while in the village to help 
with repairs. They will bid a fond farewell to the Company, 
and express a wish to see them again. Friendships like this 
are key to tying characters into Middle-earth as more than 
wandering mercenaries.
Gailavira bids them farewell, thanking them for their 
efforts. All punishments are forgotten, and if they secured 
her as a patron, she will doubtless see them again, and 
have quests for them to undertake in the rebuilding of the 
farmstead. But for now they must head on to the Forest 
Gate, and then into Mirkwood.
As they approach the road that leads to the Forest Gate, 
they see another traveller ahead of them on the trail, 
leaning on a staff as he walks wearily along the road. He 
is an old, old man, wears a tall pointed blue hat, a long 
grey cloak, and a silver scarf. He has a long white beard 
and bushy eyebrows that stick out beyond the brim of his 
hat. 
“Your path goes East, I think, and so does mine today. 
May I join you on the Road?”
 
And with that the curtain falls.
28
2
2

--- PAGE 30 ---
Riddle sheet
The poor have it, the rich need it and if you 
eat it you’ll die. What is it?
- Nothing -
What always runs but never walks, often 
murmurs, never talks, has a bed but never 
sleeps, has a mouth but never eats?
- A river -
It cannot be seen, it weighs nothing, but when 
put into a barrel, it makes it lighter. 
What is it?
- A hole -
The more you have of it, the less you see. 
What is it?
- Darkness -
The one who makes it, sells it. The one who 
buys it, never uses it. The one that 
uses it never knows that he has it.
What is it?
- A coffin -
Three lives have I.
Soft enough to soothe the skin,
Light enough to caress the sky,
Hard enough to break rocks.
- Water -
Glittering points that downward thrust,
Sparkling spears that never rust.
- Icicle -
A head have I, a tail have I, no body have I, 
what am I?
- A coin -
A box without hinges, lock or key, yet golden 
treasure lies within. 
What is it?
- An egg -
Reaching stiffly for the sky,
I bare my fingers when it’s cold
In warmth I wear an emerald glove
And in between I dress in gold
- A  tree -
Feed me and I live, give me drink and I die. 
What am I?
- Fire -
Alive with no breath,
As chilly as death,
Never thirsty, Ever drinking,
Clad in mail, Never clinking,
Drowns on dry land,
Thinks an island, Is a mountain,
Thinks a fountain, Is a puff of air.
- A fish -

--- PAGE 31 ---
The Eaves of Mirkwood
Loremaster’s Map
30

--- PAGE 32 ---
Player’s Map
Maps
31

--- PAGE 33 ---
The Battle in the Clearing
• 
A fallen tree provides total cover from ground level.
• 
Use of a full movement action allows a creature to climb onto a fallen tree, allowing 
Advantage on attack rolls as long as they stay on the tree. Jumping down is 
considered normal movement.
• 
Creatures on a tree trunk gain a +2 modifier to a shove action on opponents below.

--- PAGE 34 ---
The Battle in the Hall

--- PAGE 35 ---
TM

--- PAGE 36 ---
The One Ring, Middle-earth, The Hobbit, The Lord of the Rings, and the characters, items, events and places therein are trademarks or registered trademarks 
of The Saul Zaentz Company d/b/a Middle-earth Enterprises and are used under license by Sophisticated Games Ltd and their respective licensees. All rights 
reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, 
photocopying, recording or otherwise, without the prior permission of the publishers. 
The Road Goes Ever On™ is a beautiful collection of 4 large format journey maps for Adventures in Middle-earth, 
that comes with a 32 page supplement packed with setting information, rules and guidance on making the most 
of your journeys.
 
Each beautiful map is double-sided, with one set of player maps, and a set of hexed maps for Loremasters, 
covering known Middle-earth.
The handy supplement includes:
• 
Earning Experience on the road
• 
Maps for campsites in case there’s trouble
• 
Pre-made monster groups to drop into your journeys
• 
Rules on avoiding the Enemy in the Wild
• 
Guidance for creating ruins along the way 
• 
New rules for generating non-player travellers
• 
And more!
 
CB72305 
978-0-85744-322-9
www.cubicle7.co.uk

--- PAGE 37 ---
Companion and Challenge Rating
Experience Award Table
Challenge
XP
Challenge
XP
0
0 or 10
14
11,500
1/8
25
15
13,000
1/4
50
16
15,000
1/2
100
17
18,000
1
200
18
20,000
2
450
19
22,000
3
700
20
25,000
4
1,100
21
33,000
5
1,800
22
41,000
6
2,300
23
50,000
7
2,900
24
62,000
8
3,900
25
75,000
9
5,000
26
90,000
10
5,900
27
105,000
11
7,200
28
120,000
12
8,400
29
135,000
13
10,000
30
155,000
 
Exhaustion
 
	
Level	
Effect
	
1	
Disadvantage on ability checks
	
2	
Speed halved
	
3	
Disadvantage on attack rolls and saving throws
	
4	
Hit point maximum halved
	
5	
Speed reduced to 0
	
6 	
Death
 
A creature suffers the effect of its current level of Exhaustion as 
well as all lower levels. For example, a creature suffering level 2 
Exhaustion has its speed halved and has Disadvantage on ability 
checks. Finishing a long rest reduces a creature’s Exhaustion 
level by 1, provided that the creature has also ingested some 
food and drink.
 Conditions
 
Blinded
• 
A Blinded creature can’t see and automatically fails any 
ability check that requires sight.
• 
Attack rolls against the creature have Advantage, and the 
creature’s attack rolls have Disadvantage.
 
Deafened
• 
A Deafened creature can’t hear and automatically fails any 
ability check that requires hearing.
Frightened
• 
A frightened creature has Disadvantage on ability checks and 
attack rolls whole the source of its fear is within line of sight.
• 
The creature can’t willing move closer to the source of its fear.
 
Grappled
• 
A grappled creature’s speed becomes 0, and it can’t benefit 
from any bonus to its speed.
• 
The condition ends if the grappler is Incapacitated (see the 
condition).
• 
The condition also ends if an effect removes the Grappled 
creature from the reach of the grappler or grappling effect.
Incapacitated
• 
An incapacitated creature can’t take actions or reactions.
Miserable
• 
A Miserable creature has Disadvantage on attack rolls.
• 
The creature automatically fails Charisma ability checks.
• 
A Miserable character can temporarily counter the effects 
of the Miserable condition by spending Inspiration. Using 
Inspiration removes the Disadvantage on one attack roll, 
or enables the player-hero to make a Charisma ability 
check at Disadvantage.
Paralysed
• 
A paralysed creature is Incapacitated (see the condition) 
and can’t move or speak.
• 
The creature automatically fails Strength and Dexterity 
saving throws.
• 
Attack rolls against the creature have Advantage.
• 
Any attack that hits the creature is a critical hit if the 
attacker is within 5 feet of the creature.
 
Poisoned
• 
A Poisoned creature has Disadvantage on attack rolls and 
ability checks.
Prone
• 
A prone creature’s only movement option is to crawl, 
unless it stands up and thereby ends the condition.
• 
The creature has Disadvantage on attack rolls.
• 
An attack roll against the creature has Advantage if the 
attacker is within 5 feet of the creature. Otherwise the 
attack roll has Disadvantage.
 
Restrained
• 
A restrained creature’s speed becomes 0, and it can’t 
benefit from any bonus to its speed.
• 
Attack rolls against the creature have Advantage, and the 
creatures attack rolls have Disadvantage.
• 
The creature has Disadvantage on Dexterity saving throws. 
Stunned
• 
A stunned creature is Incapacitated (see the condition), 
can’t move, and can speak only falteringly.
• 
The creature automatically fails Strength and Dexterity throws.
• 
Attack rolls against the creature have Advantage.
Unconscious
• 
An unconscious creature is Incapacitated (see the 
condition), can’t move or speak, and is unaware of its 
surroundings.
• 
The creature drops whatever it’s holding and falls Prone. 
The creature automatically fails Strength and Dexterity 
saving throws.
• 
Attack rolls against the creature have Advantage.
• 
Any attack that hits the creature is a critical hit if the attack 
is within 5 feet of the creature.

--- PAGE 38 ---
OPEN GAME LICENSE Version 1.0a 
The following text is the property of Wizards of the Coast, Inc. and is 
Copyright 2000 Wizards of the Coast, Inc ("Wizards"). All Rights Reserved. 
1. Definitions: (a)"Contributors" means the copyright and/or trademark 
owners who have contributed Open Game Content; (b)"Derivative 
Material" means copyrighted material including derivative works 
and translations (including into other computer languages), potation, 
modification, correction, addition, extension, upgrade, improvement, 
compilation, abridgment or other form in which an existing work may 
be recast, transformed or adapted; (c) "Distribute" means to reproduce, 
license, rent, lease, sell, broadcast, publicly display, transmit or otherwise 
distribute; (d)"Open Game Content" means the game mechanic and 
includes the methods, procedures, processes and routines to the extent 
such content does not embody the Product Identity and is an enhancement 
over the prior art and any additional content clearly identified as Open 
Game Content by the Contributor, and means any work covered by this 
License, including translations and derivative works under copyright law, 
but specifically excludes Product Identity. (e) "Product Identity" means 
product and product line names, logos and identifying marks including 
trade dress; artifacts; creatures characters; stories, storylines, plots, 
thematic elements, dialogue, incidents, language, artwork, symbols, 
designs, depictions, likenesses, formats, poses, concepts, themes and 
graphic, photographic and other visual or audio representations; names 
and descriptions of characters, spells, enchantments, personalities, 
teams, personas, likenesses and special abilities; places, locations, 
environments, creatures, equipment, magical or supernatural abilities or 
effects, logos, symbols, or graphic designs; and any other trademark or 
registered trademark clearly identified as Product identity by the owner 
of the Product Identity, and which specifically excludes the Open Game 
Content; (f) "Trademark" means the logos, names, mark, sign, motto, 
designs that are  used by a Contributor to identify itself or its products 
or the associated products contributed to the Open Game License by the 
Contributor (g) "Use", "Used" or "Using" means to use, Distribute, copy, 
edit, format, modify, translate and otherwise create Derivative Material 
of Open Game Content. (h) "You" or "Your" means the licensee in terms of 
this agreement. 
2. The License: This License applies to any Open Game Content that 
contains a notice indicating that the Open Game Content may only be 
Used under and in terms of this License. You must affix such a notice 
to any Open Game Content that you Use. No terms may be added to or 
subtracted from this License except as described by the License itself. No 
other terms or conditions may be applied to any Open Game Content 
distributed using this License. 
3.Offer and Acceptance: By Using the Open Game Content You indicate 
Your acceptance of the terms of this License. 
4. Grant and Consideration: In consideration for agreeing to use this 
License, the Contributors grant You a perpetual, worldwide, royalty free, 
non exclusive license with the exact terms of this License to Use, the Open 
Game Content. 
5.Representation of Authority to Contribute: If You are contributing 
original material as Open Game Content, You represent that Your 
Contributions are Your original creation and/or You have sufficient rights 
to grant the rights conveyed by this License. 
6.Notice of License Copyright: You must update the COPYRIGHT NOTICE 
portion of this License to include the exact text of the COPYRIGHT NOTICE 
of any Open Game Content You are copying, modifying or distributing, 
and You must add the title, the copyright date, and the copyright holder's 
name to the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any original Open Game Content you 
Distribute. 
7. Use of Product Identity: You agree not to Use any Product Identity, 
including as an indication as to compatibility, except as expressly licensed 
in another, independent Agreement with the owner of each element of that 
Product Identity. You agree not to indicate compatibility or co adaptability 
with any Trademark or Registered Trademark in conjunction with a work 
containing Open Game Content except as expressly licensed in another, 
independent Agreement with the owner of such Trademark or Registered 
Trademark. The use of any Product Identity in Open Game Content does 
not constitute a challenge to the ownership of that Product Identity. The 
owner of any Product Identity used in Open Game Content shall retain all 
rights, title and interest in and to that Product Identity. 
8. Identification: If you distribute Open Game Content You must clearly 
indicate which portions of the work that you are distributing are Open 
Game Content. 
9. Updating the License: Wizards or its designated Agents may publish 
updated versions of this License. You may use any authorized version 
of this License to copy, modify and distribute any Open Game Content 
originally distributed under any version of this License. 
10. Copy of this License: You MUST include a copy of this License with 
every copy of the Open Game Content You Distribute. 
11. Use of Contributor Credits: You may not market or advertise the Open 
Game Content using the name of any Contributor unless You have written 
permission from the Contributor to do so. 
12. Inability to Comply: If it is impossible for You to comply with any of the 
terms of this License with respect to some or all of the Open Game Content 
due to statute, judicial order, or governmental regulation then You may 
not Use any Open Game Material so affected. 
13. Termination: This License will terminate automatically if You fail 
to comply with all terms herein and fail to cure such breach within 30 
days of becoming aware of the breach. All sublicenses shall survive the 
termination of this License. 
14. Reformation: If any provision of this License is held to be 
unenforceable, such provision shall be reformed only to the extent 
necessary to make it enforceable. 
15. COPYRIGHT NOTICE 
Open Game License v 1.0a Copyright 2000, Wizards of the Coast, LLC. 
System Reference Document 5.1 Copyright 2016, Wizards of the Coast, 
Inc.; Authors Mike Mearls, Jeremy Crawford, Chris Perkins, Rodney 
Thompson, Peter Lee, James Wyatt, Robert J. Schwalb, Bruce R. Cordell, 
Chris Sims, and Steve Townshend, based on original material by E. Gary 
Gygax and Dave Arneson. 
Adventures in Middle-earth Player’s Guide Copyright 2016 Cubicle 7 
Entertainment Ltd/Sophisticated Games Ltd; Authors: James Brown, Paul 
Butler, Walt Ciechanowksi, Steve Emmott, Gareth Ryder-Hanrahan, Jon 
Hodgson, Shane Ivey, Andrew Kenrick, TS Luikart, Dominic McDowall, 
Francesco Nepitello, James Spahn, Ken Spencer.
Adventures in Middle-earth Loremaster’s Guide Copyright 2017 
Cubicle 7 Entertainment Ltd/Sophisticated Games Ltd; Authors: Walt 
Ciechanowski, Steve Emmott, Jon Hodgson, TS Luikart, Dominic 
McDowall, Francesco Nepitello, David Rea, Jacob Rodgers, Gareth 
Ryder-Hanrahan and Ken Spencer.
Adventures in Middle-earth Eaves of Mirkwood Copyright 2017 
Cubicle 7 Entertainment Ltd/Sophisticated Games Ltd; Author: Jon 
Hodgson.
END OF LICENSE