--- PAGE 1 ---
Visit the city of Dale and discover the wonders of the Kingdom Under the Mountain 
and the lands beyond with this essential guide for the world’s greatest fantasy setting.
TM
TM

--- PAGE 2 ---
Written by Gabriel Garcia, Andrew Kenrick, Mark A. Latham, T.S. Luikart, 
Francesco Nepitello, Jacob Rodgers, James M. Spahn and Kenneth Spencer.
Producer: Emmet Byrne
Converted by Jacob Rodgers
Cover by Ralph Horsley
Art by Jon Hodgson, Sam Manley, and Jan Pospíšil.
Editors: Emmet Byrne, Zak Dale-Clutterbuck, Andrew Kenrick, Francesco Nepitello and Síne Quinn
Graphic Design and Layout: Paul Bourne
Proofreading: Jacob Rodgers
Special Thanks to David Rea
Publisher: Dominic McDowall
Based on The One Ring Roleplaying Game by Francesco Nepitello and Marco Maggi
© Sophisticated Games Ltd 2019     © Cubicle 7 Entertainment Ltd 2019
To find out more about Adventures in Middle-earth, and 
to subscribe to our newsletter, please go to: www.cubicle7.co.uk
Product Identity: The following items are hereby identified as Product Identity, as defined in the Open Game License version 1.0a, Section 1(e), and are not Open Content:
All trademarks, registered trade-marks, proper names (characters, place names, etc.), new rules, classes, items, virtues, backgrounds, places, characters, artwork, 
sidebars, and trade dress. Open Game Content: The Open content in this book includes material taken from the Systems Reference Document. No other portion of this 
work may be reproduced in any form without permission.
Published by Sophisticated Games Ltd, 3 Andersen Court, Newnham Road, Cambridge CB3 9EZ, UK and 
Cubicle 7 Entertainment Ltd,  Suite D3, Unit 4, Gemini House, Hargreaves Road, Groundwell Industrial Estate, 
Swindon, SN25 5AZ, UK
 
 
The Lonely Mountain, Middle-earth, The Hobbit, The Lord of the Rings, and the characters, items, events and places therein are trademarks or registered trademarks of 
The Saul Zaentz Company d/b/a Middle-earth Enterprises and are used under license by Sophisticated Games Ltd and their respective licensees. All rights reserved. No 
part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording 
or otherwise, without the prior permission of the publishers. 
Printed in Lithuania
- CREDITS -
2

--- PAGE 3 ---
Introduction	
4
How to use the Lonely Mountain
Region Guide	
4
The Passing of Years	
4
The Kingdom Under the
Mountain	
5
A History of Erebor	
6
	
The Founding of Erebor 	
6
	
The Desertion of Erebor 	
6
	
The Second Kingdom and the
	
Founding of Dale 	
7
	
The Reign of Smaug 	
7
	
The Bitter Years 	
7
	
The Quest for Erebor and the
	
Battle of Five Armies 	
8
	
The Restoration of Erebor	
8
Erebor	
9
	
The Last Home of the Dwarves	
9
	
Erebor Map	
10
	
The Upper Halls	
11
	
The Lower Halls	
15
	
The Deeps	
17
	
The Mountain’s Sides	
17
	
Notable Characters	
18
	
The Surviving Members of
	
Thorin’s Company	
21
Things to do while in Erebor	
27
	
Staying in Erebor	
27
	
New Fellowship Phase 
	
Undertakings	
28
Treasure of the 
Dwarves	
29
Dwarven Craftsmanship	
29
	
New Enchanted Qualities	
30
Famous DwarvenWeapons 
and Armour	
31
Dwarven Smithing	
33
	
New Fellowship Phase Undertaking:
	
Dwarven-Smithing	
33
	
Extended Example of 
	
Dwarven-smithing	
34
Dale	
35
A History of Dale	
35
	
The First Founding	
35
	
The Coming of the Dragon	
36
	
The Death of Smaug and The Rise of
	
King Bard	
36
The City of Dale	
37
	
Dale Map	
39
	
The Gates of Dale	
40
	
The Merchants Way	
40
	
The Quays	
40
	
The Merchants Quarter	
41
	
Ravensgate District	
44
	
Royal Palace	
45
	
Royal Barracks	
47
	
Residential Quarter	
48
	
The Water House	
49
	
Old Quarter	
49
	
Notable Characters	
51
Things to do while in Dale	
54
	
New Fellowship Phase 
	
Undertakings	
54
The Lands About the 
Mountain	
56
The Northern Dalelands	
56
The Waste	
60
The Grey Mountains	
65
The Upper Marches	
69
The Long Marshes	
73
The Nether Marches	
76
Concerning Dragons	
81
The Great Worms	
81
Hatching a Dragon	
82
	
Step 1: Choose Age and Breed	
83
	
Step 2: Define Personality	
85
	
Step 3: Choose Actions and 
	
Features	
86
	
Step 4: Lair and Hoard	
91
	
Step 5. Choose a Name 
	
and Backstory	
95
Hunting Dragons	
96
	
Treasures to Slay a Dragon	
96
	
Meeting a Dragon	
97
	
Rumours of Dragons	
97
Dragons of the Third Age	
99
	
The Forest Dragon	
99
	
Kibiluzn	
100
	
Lytegan	
102
	
Raenar	
104
The War of the 
Dwarves and Orcs	
106
The Eve of War	
106
The Mustering of the Host	
107
The War of Vengeance	
108
The Battle of Azanulbizar	
111
Aftermath	
111
Treasures of the War of Vengeance	
112
	
Wondrous Artefacts	
112
	
Legendary Weapons and Armour	 112
	
Dwarven Grudges	
112
Exploring the Restored
Kingdoms	
114
Urban Journeys	
114
Journey Event Table Entry 1	
115
Journey Event Table Entry 2	
116
Journey Event Table Entry 3	
117
Journey Event Table Entry 4	
118
Journey Event Table Entry 5	
119
Journey Event Table Entry 6	
120
Journey Event Table Entry 7	
121
Journey Event Table Entry 8	
122
Journey Event Table Entry 9	
123
Journey Event Table Entry 10	
124
Journey Event Table Entry 11	
125
Journey Event Table Entry 12	
126
Folk of Stone	
128
Dwarves of the Iron Hills	
129
Dwarves of the Grey Mountains	
132
Pre-generated Character Sheets	
135
Index	
139
- CONTENTS -
3

--- PAGE 4 ---
Lonely Mountain Region Guide
4
- INTRODUCTION -
For many centuries, the lands about the Lonely Mountain 
were part of the Desolation of Smaug, abandoned by all 
who feared the Dragon. But since Bard the Bowman slew 
Smaug, the kingdoms of Erebor and Dale – their fates 
entwined – are resurgent, their cities rebuilt, their fortunes 
revived. In the North, there are no greater wonders than 
Erebor and Dale.
The Lonely Mountain Region Guide takes Adventures in 
Middle-earth east of Mirkwood, to the Kingdom under the 
Mountain and the Kingdom of Dale. As well as describing 
both the cities of Erebor and Dale, it also details one of 
the most terrible foes a hero might hope never to face: 
Dragons.
The first section, The Kingdom under the Mountain, 
describes Erebor, its denizens and the wonders that might 
be found there. The second section, Treasure of the 
Dwarves, details the artifices of Durin’s folk, fabled items 
crafted with skills now lost to the world. The third section 
describes the city of Dale, foremost sanctuary of Men in 
Wilderland, followed by the regions that surround the 
Mountain, from the Grey Mountains in the north to the 
Nether Marches in the south-east. Each region contains 
descriptions of major features and the wildlife that will 
typically be seen in the area, along with brief accounts of 
whatever inhabitants dwell there. 
The next section, Concerning Dragons, describes the 
Great Worms, kin to Smaug and forever a bane upon 
Durin’s folk. As well as providing ample background and 
rules for Dragons, it also describes what might be found 
within a Dragon’s hoard, and presents four fully-hatched 
worms.The War of the Dwarves and Orcs presents a 
history of the long war between Azog and King Thráin, 
as well as outlining several ways that a Loremaster might 
bring its dark legacy to the fore in their own game. The 
seventh section, Exploring the Restored Kingdoms, 
provides journey tables customised to the areas around 
the Lonely Mountain. It also provides advice on adding 
colour to an urban outing by using the Journey Event tables 
in a new way. Folk of Stone, the last section, presents an 
expanded version of the Dwarves of the Iron Hills culture 
and a new culture: the Dwarves of the Grey Mountains.
How to use the Lonely Mountain 
Region Guide
This supplement is a guide to the places and peoples of 
this part of Middle-earth, and is an invaluable source of 
new gaming material that expands upon what has been 
presented in Adventures in Middle-earth. It is intended 
primarily for the Loremaster, who can use this material to 
greatly enhance an ongoing campaign. Players – especially 
those playing Dwarven or Barding heroes – may be allowed 
to read some of this guide, but others should generally 
refrain from doing so. The companion volume to the Lonely 
Mountain Region Guide is entitled Erebor Adventures. This 
supplement contains six adventures that see the kingdoms of 
Dale and Erebor beset by dangers from within and without. 
Many of the Loremaster characters and locations featured 
in this guide play key roles in these adventures. You don’t 
need Erebor Adventures to use the Lonely Mountain Region 
Guide, but Erebor Adventures relies upon the information 
in this supplement.
The Passing of Years
The material presented in the Lonely Mountain Region 
Guide assumes the year is contemporary with the default 
starting date for Adventures in Middle-earth — 2946 of the 
Third Age. Smaug has been dead for five years and Dale 
and Erebor have been rebuilt, but much work still continues. 
For Loremasters who wish to set their games later, perhaps 
to use alongside the material in the Mirkwood Campaign, 
they can do so with little modification.

--- PAGE 5 ---
5
The Kingdom Under the Mountain
THE KINGDOM
UNDER THE
- MOUNTAIN -
It seemed as if darkness flowed out like a vapour 
from the hole in the mountain-side, and deep 
darkness in which nothing could be seen lay 
before their eyes, a yawning mouth leading in 
and down. 
Erebor is the last great stronghold of the House of Durin. 
Built deep within the Lonely Mountain, it is more than just 
a city, or a mining complex, or a fortress: it is a palace 
of gems and marble, a mansion of emerald and iron, a 
redoubt of diamond and steel. Great streams of gold run 
through the living rock of its foundations and the columns 
of its halls are dense as the trees of a forest. 
The Lonely Mountain dominates the north-east of 
Wilderland, standing guard over the Dalelands like a great 
sentinel, a solitary peak rising between Mirkwood and the 
Iron Hills. Shaped like a star, with six ridges extending 
outwards from a central peak, this snow-capped mountain 
has been the site of bitter struggle, bloodshed, and much 
toil for many centuries. Other Dwarven holds have risen 
and fallen, Erebor alone has been reclaimed and rebuilt 
anew; not once, but twice. Its long history has become 
legend among the Dwarves, much of its lore has been 
lost in Dragon-fire; many secrets and dark mysteries may 
yet lie within the depths of the Mountain, waiting to be 
rediscovered. 
When Smaug finally fell from the skies above Esgaroth, 
Erebor was once again free, but there weren’t many 
among those who first entered its befouled halls who 
dared dream of restoring them to their former glory. It 
took all Dáin Ironfoot’s will and energy to transform the 
blasted peak back into one of the wonders of the North. 
The old trade routes leading to the Mountain are being 
reopened; the Men of Dale and Lake-town prosper once 
more; and peace reigns between Durin’s folk and the 
Elves of Mirkwood. In just a handful of years, the Dwarves 
have restored the upper levels of their stronghold, while 
The Folk of Durin
The Dwarves keep themselves apart from the rest of 
the Free Peoples and what few of their tales they share 
with outsiders are strange and sometimes contradictory. 
Even the Elves know little of them, saving only that 
they believe the fire of Aulë the Smith burns within all 
Dwarves, driving them to create cunning things with 
their hands. 
It is held by the Dwarves that their race is divided into 
seven folks, each one descending from a founding father. 
Durin was the eldest among the Seven Fathers and the 
first to awaken in Middle-earth. The kings of his House, 
known in the Common Tongue as the ‘Longbeards’, have 
always been regarded with a special reverence by all 
Dwarves. 
Durin made his home under the Misty Mountains, in the 
halls of Khazad-dûm, and the Longbeards dwelt there, 
building and delving the great city of the Dwarrowdelf. 
Durin lived an exceedingly long life, even as the Dwarves 
measure age, so long that he was called ‘the Deathless’. 
Yet he eventually passed away and was buried with great 
honour in Khazad-dûm. 
According to the lore of the Longbeards, there seems to be 
an additional meaning to Durin’s fame as the Deathless. 
For they say that his family line survived the passage of 
the centuries unbroken, and that five times an heir has 
been born in the House of the Longbeards who was so 
alike to his Forefather in appearance and manner that he 
inherited the name of Durin. To this day, many Dwarves 
hold that this was Durin reborn. 
King Dáin of Erebor, the King under the Mountain, 
is a direct descendant of Durin and the majority of the 
Dwarves of Erebor are Longbeards, or have permanently 
aligned themselves with that House, and are collectively 
known as "Durin’s folk".

--- PAGE 6 ---
Lonely Mountain Region Guide
6
reopening many of the lower passages and tunnels that 
were blocked by the Dragon. Yet in recent years it seems 
that a shadow may again fall over the Lonely Mountain. 
Even from within their fortified mountain-halls, the 
Dwarves hear tell of a growing darkness. Doubt festers 
among those who feast in the well-lit halls of Erebor, as fell 
creatures gather in the wilds and, they say, smoke rises 
from Mount Doom far to the south. 
A History of Erebor
It is recorded that Dwarves have inhabited the Lonely 
Mountain since it was first colonised by Thráin the First in 
the year 1999 of the Third Age. Though it appears that the 
days of peace may have returned, the history of Erebor is 
one fraught with conflict.
The Founding of Erebor (1999–2210)
The Dwarves of Erebor were originally from Khazad-dûm, 
the greatest Dwarf-hold of Middle-earth. However, in the 
year 1980 of the Third Age, the Dwarves dug too deeply 
for mithril beneath their mountain home, and unearthed 
a terror of the ancient world in the depths beneath the 
city. King Durin, the sixth to bear that name, was slain. 
The following year his son, Náin, was killed too and the 
Dwarves abandoned Khazad-dûm soon after. 
Darkness and terror filled the halls of Khazad-dûm and it 
soon bore a new name: Moria, the Black Pit. The Dwarves 
scattered across Wilderland, seeking new homes. 
Some followed their new king, Thráin the First, beyond 
Mirkwood, until at last they settled around the year 1999 
in an old mining colony under the Lonely Mountain. 
Beneath the Mountain Thráin and his followers delved, 
finding great riches. The foundations of a new Dwarven 
mansion were soon laid. King Thráin and his followers 
laboured incessantly, for they sought to restore the 
honour of their folk, building a city that was worthy of 
any of the realms of the Dwarves of old. Their hopes and 
resolve were rewarded when among the deepest roots of 
the Lonely Mountain they discovered what would become 
the greatest treasure of Durin’s folk: the Arkenstone, the 
Heart of the Mountain. Blessing their good fortune, the 
Dwarves set about their task with redoubled strength and 
all was well, for a time. 
Durin’s Bane
The Dwarves do not know what befell Moria, 
nor indeed, do any of the Wise. The inhabitants of 
Khazad-dûm know only that an unseen terror struck 
at them, something that came up out of the mines. 
They refer to it as "Durin’s Bane" as, whatever it 
was, it killed their King. 
Today, many years after the fall, some Dwarves 
of Erebor believe that the time has come at last to 
reclaim the halls of Khazad-dûm. But King Dáin 
once peered into the Black Pit and fears that it would 
take more than the strength of the Dwarves to free 
Moria from the evil that now dwells there. 
The Desertion of Erebor (2210–2589)
Ten years into the reign of Thorin the First, son of Thráin 
the Old, the King resolved to remove the royal house of 
Durin’s folk from Erebor to abide in the Grey Mountains. 
At the time, those peaks were mostly unexplored and 
their vast riches unexploited, and many Longbeards had 
already begun gathering there. Collecting his treasures, 
including the Arkenstone, Thorin and most of the denizens 
of Erebor left their city and moved to a new mansion. At 
the time, this decision was celebrated, for too long the 
Longbeards had been divided, yet it was to prove an ill-
fated choice. 
The Dwarves prospered in the Grey Mountains for many 
years, accumulating a great wealth, while Erebor lay 
unfinished and almost deserted, inhabited only by a few 
hardy miners. But late in the reign of Náin the Second, 
a plague of Dragons began to afflict the Dwarves. Those 
Great Worms dwelt and multiplied in the cold wastes 
beyond the mountains to the north, and in the year 2570 
they began attacking the Dwarves without warning and in 
greater numbers as time went on. 
In the following years, the Dwarves lost many mansions 
to the greed of Dragons; King Dáin the First himself and 
his second son Frór were slain before the gates of their 
own hall by the great Cold-drake, Raenar. Soon after, the 
Dwarves fled the Grey Mountains. The newly crowned

--- PAGE 7 ---
7
King Thrór and his followers returned to Erebor, while his 
younger brother, Grór and some of their folk, went with 
the King’s blessing to the Iron Hills in the east.
The Second Kingdom and the 
Founding of Dale (2590–2770)
The Dwarves of Erebor thrived under Thrór’s rulership; 
the Arkenstone returned to the Great Hall of Thráin in the 
deep vaults and their treasure stores soon replenished. 
Great works were begun beneath the Mountain, as the 
Dwarves mined and tunnelled and made wider halls and 
many workshops. 
The wealth and generosity of the King under the Mountain 
gained him the friendship of the Northmen living along the 
River Running; the Dwarves traded them beautiful things, 
shining weapons and sturdy mail, mainly in exchange for 
food-supplies. Soon, the town of Dale arose at the foot of 
the Lonely Mountain, with both peoples greatly profiting 
by their commerce (see page 35 for the history of Dale). 
Peace and prosperity reigned for many years, until one 
fateful day a great shadow flew over the mountain…
The Reign of Smaug (2770-2941)
What possessed the great Dragon Smaug to leave the 
Grey Mountains and fly south is not known. Perhaps 
he bore the Dwarves some ill-will that had festered for 
centuries since the war fought by his kin against the folk 
of Durin; perhaps he had simply learned of the scale of 
the Dwarves’ wealth beneath Erebor, and was driven by 
gold-lust as many Dragons are. Whatever the reason, 
Smaug the Golden, the greatest fire-breathing Dragon 
of his age, swept down upon the Lonely Mountain like a 
hurricane. He set the woods about the mountain ablaze, 
then slaughtered the Dwarves as they came forth from 
the Front Gate to meet their foe. His fiery breath turned 
the River Running to steam and, striking from amidst the 
clouds, he slew the warriors of Dale, including their lord, 
Girion. Returning to the Mountain, Smaug crawled in 
through the open gate and left no Dwarf he found alive. 
A few of of Durin’s folk managed to escape the Dragon’s 
onslaught, including Thrór and his son Thráin, both of 
whom managed to flee by means of a secret door. Smaug 
set about sealing the passages of the Mountain, save for 
the Front Gate, which alone was large enough to allow 
him access. He gathered the treasures of Erebor into a 
vast pile within the Great Hall of Thráin, which became 
his bed. In the years that followed, Smaug drove forth the 
people of Dale, and ravaged the countryside surrounding 
the Lonely Mountain for many miles. The region soon 
became known as ‘the Desolation of Smaug’ and all who 
valued their lives avoided it.
The Bitter Years (2770–2941)
Thrór, along with many other Dwarves in exile, set up 
home far to the south, in Dunland, where they scratched 
out a meagre living. Bitter and despairing, Thrór passed 
the last great treasure he possessed, one of the Seven 
Rings of the Dwarves, to his son Thráin. Then taking leave 
of his kin, journeyed to the gates of Khazad-dûm. In that 
darkened hall, Thrór  was slain by Orcs, and the name of 
Moria’s new king was branded in Dwarven runes upon his 
brow: Azog. Thráin and his sons, Thorin the Second and 
Frerin, consumed by rage and grief, called all Dwarves to 
a great war of vengeance against the Orcs and Goblins that 
infested the Misty Mountains. The War of the Dwarves and 
the Orcs is described elsewhere (see page 106), but suffice 
it to say that more than half of the Dwarf-host perished in 
the final battle in the valley of Azanulbizar; but vengeance 
was theirs, for Azog was slain, and the Orcs and Goblins 
were crushed for long years afterwards. 
After the war, the Dwarves dared not enter Moria and 
reclaim their lost realm. Instead, they chose exile again 
and dispersed. Thráin and Thorin, now called the 
Oakenshield, for defending himself with a stout branch 
when his shield failed him at Azanulbizar, wandered west 
with their people into Eriador, eventually repairing north 
to a modest mansion along the eastern edge of the Blue 
Mountains. Long years of hard labour followed, and the 
folk in exile prospered in small measure, slowly increasing 
their wealth and numbers. 
At last, in the year 2845, Thráin left the Blue Mountains 
with a small party, including the brothers Balin and 
Dwalin. Travelling east, a hard rain drove them to camp 
under the eaves of Mirkwood. In the morning, Thráin was 
gone, never to be seen again by his kin. Unbeknownst to 
the Dwarves, the Dark Lord Sauron’s emissaries captured 
the King of Durin’s folk. Thráin was dragged to the fortress 
of Dol Guldur. There, the Dwarf-lord was tortured and 
Sauron reclaimed the last of the seven Dwarf-rings, before 
leaving him in the dungeons to rot. Several years later, 
The Kingdom Under the Mountain

--- PAGE 8 ---
Lonely Mountain Region Guide
8
while searching the abandoned fortress, Gandalf the Grey 
came upon a dying Thráin, who was so weak and crazed 
that he could not even remember his own name. Thráin 
gave Gandalf his last two possessions: the key to Erebor 
and the map to the Lonely Mountain, and died shortly 
thereafter. Gandalf left the Dwarf without learning his 
identity, an ignominious end for a king.
The Quest for Erebor and the 
Battle of Five Armies (2941)
Many 
years 
later, 
Gandalf 
encountered 
Thorin 
Oakenshield in Bree, seemingly by chance. There, Gandalf 
realised the Dwarf he had encountered in Dol Guldur 
must have been Thráin, and in Thorin, he saw a way to 
remove the Dragon from the Lonely Mountain and restore 
the Dwarves to Erebor. Together, the Grey Wizard and the 
Dwarf-lord crafted a plan to retake the Lonely Mountain. 
Thorin and Company crossed Wilderland through many 
dangers, but managed to reach the Back Door to Erebor 
on Durin’s Day of the year 2941. The Hobbit Bilbo Baggins 
stole into the Mountain, where he discovered that the 
diamond waistcoat of Smaug the Golden was not without 
flaw. As Smaug destroyed Lake-town, he was slain by Bard 
the Bowman, descendant of Girion. The Lonely Mountain 
was freed from the Dragon. 
After Smaug’s death, Thorin’s Company claimed the 
treasure as theirs by birthright, and declared Thorin King 
under the Mountain. However, Bard and Thranduil, the 
Elvenking of Mirkwood, each demanded a portion of the 
treasure as reimbursement for the damage that Smaug had 
inflicted upon their ancestral homes and people; Thorin, 
seized by Dragon-sickness, refused them. Thorin’s cousin, 
Dáin Ironfoot, arrived at the Mountain from the Iron 
Hills with his own forces, summoned by Roäc the Raven. 
Bolstered by Dáin’s presence, Thorin declared his intention 
to go to war with the Elves of Mirkwood and the Men of 
Esgaroth, who began to gather in great numbers outside the 
Lonely Mountain, set on besieging the Dwarves. 
All might have gone differently indeed, if not for a sudden 
attack by an army of Orcs and other foul creatures led 
by Bolg, son of Azog. Realising their common foe, the 
Free Peoples stood together against them in the Battle of 
Five Armies. Though the army of Elves, Men, Dwarves 
and, at the last, Eagles, was victorious, Thorin received 
a mortal wound, and his nephews Fili and Kili died 
defending him. With his dying words, Thorin renounced 
his own selfishness and greed, parting from Bilbo Baggins 
in friendship. Thorin was entombed beneath the Lonely 
Mountain, the Arkenstone given into his keeping, and the 
ancient sword Orcrist placed upon his breast.
The Restoration of Erebor (2941–present)
With the death of Thorin, it was left to his cousin Dáin 
Ironfoot to take up the mantle of King under the Mountain. 
King Dáin became an ally and, soon, a friend of Bard the

--- PAGE 9 ---
9
Dragon-slayer, now acclaimed as the new lord of Dale. 
Together, the two set about building their kingdoms. Dáin 
sent word to all the scattered exiles of Durin’s folk that 
Erebor was theirs once more and, slowly, the Longbeards 
began to return to the Lonely Mountain. 
As more and more Dwarves flocked to the Kingdom 
under the Mountain, the great rebuilding began. To this 
day countless new chambers have been excavated, old 
tunnels reopened, treasure reclaimed, statues repaired 
or carved anew, and the halls have slowly been restored 
to their former glory. The work continues still, with new 
halls being opened and new expansion projects planned 
yearly. Though much has been renewed, King Dáin ordered 
the Great Hall of Thráin cleared of all wealth, cleansed of 
the Dragon’s reek, and then left empty, for Smaug slept 
there far too long and whispers of his dark dreams still 
remain. Vacant, silent and still the Great Hall of Thráin 
lies now, a reminder of all that was lost, even as Erebor 
rises strong and secure once more. 
Erebor
Between the two southerly spurs of the Lonely Mountain 
lies a dark cavernous opening, from which the thundering 
waters of the River Running surge. On either side of that 
cleft, stand massive pillars of ornately engraved stone, each 
one carved out of the living rock of the Mountain itself. The 
mouth of the cavern is not just a hole in the cliff-wall, but 
a mighty arch, formed from huge blocks of carefully placed 
marble. Some of the stones here are pristine; others have 
been scorched by fires so hot that they partially melted. 
Beneath the arch is a set of massive wooden gates braced 
with dark metal, opening to a wide passageway paved 
with stones so well-laid, that a slip of parchment cannot be 
placed into the seams between them. 
Dwarven warriors stand before the gates clad in shining 
mail; firm and resolute, with hard eyes and searching 
looks for all that wish to enter the realm of Dáin, King 
under the Mountain, stronghold of Durin’s folk, the 
Kingdom of Erebor. 
Combat scenery: dead silence, great heat (in the forges, 
same effects as freezing cold), low ceilings, narrow walls, 
pits, rock edges, rock pillars, thick smoke, varied slopes
The Last Home of the Dwarves
A visitor entering Erebor through the Front Gate for the 
first time will be awe-struck by the sight within. What lies 
beyond its monumental threshold is no cold, gloomy mine, 
but a royal mansion, spread across many levels and lit 
by huge lanterns, innumerable torches and sunlight from 
reflecting mirrors. It is a vast kingdom filled with halls 
and chambers, workshops and treasuries, and crossed 
by underground streets, tunnels, alleys and squares, 
stretching for many miles into the depths of the Mountain. 
At first it is hard to believe that Erebor is an underground 
hold, although the lack of blue skies above and the scent 
of earth on the air may at long last prove stifling to those 
who favour the sight of distant mountains and open 
meadows. For a Dwarf, however, even one who has never 
before set foot inside Erebor, the subterranean city feels 
like home. The tough bones of the Lonely Mountain under 
their feet, the heat and smoke of the furnace, the smiting 
of hammers on countless anvils, and the scrape of tools 
against rock; everything conspires to make even the most 
itinerant Dwarf want to set down roots. 
The most important city of the Dwarves of Durin’s folk 
in the Third Age is divided into the Upper Halls, the 
Lower Halls, the Deeps and the buildings rising on the 
Mountain’s Sides. 
Long
     Lake
E Esgaroth
E Dale
E
Erebor
E
Elven King’s
Halls
The Waste
c
o
Upper Marches
n
Northern
Dalelands
Long Marshes
o
Mountains
                of  Mirkwood
u
Erebor
The Kingdom Under the Mountain

--- PAGE 10 ---
Lonely Mountain Region Guide
10
1
2
3
6
5
7
8
9
4

--- PAGE 11 ---
11
The Upper Halls
The locales found in the upper levels of Erebor are for the 
most part the largest and most impressive. They were built 
to instil fear and reverence into the hearts of those who 
crossed the threshold of the Kingdom under the Mountain. 
But as with a floating mountain of ice, the Upper Halls are 
just a small part of the great realm of the Dwarves. 
The Front Gate
The Front Gate stands as a great monument to the power 
and skill of the Dwarves. It is a tall arch, wide enough to 
allow the march of many Dwarves abreast, cut from the 
formidable rock of the mountainside. A large, high bridge 
leads to it, and from the roadway a traveller can look out 
right across the River Running, down into the valley where 
Dale rises, and beyond to the south. 
The sheer scale of the Front Gate, while providing an 
intimidating bulwark for many centuries, contributed 
to the downfall of Erebor in 2770. As the only portal 
wide enough to grant him ingress, Smaug the Golden 
assaulted the Front Gate and used it to enter the Dwarf-
citadel, reducing the wondrous underground kingdom to 
ruin. Smaug eventually sealed all other gates into Erebor 
that he could find, the better to protect his ill-gotten 
hoard. 
Since the reclamation of Erebor, travel to the Lonely 
Mountain is relatively safe. Dale thrives once more, 
as does Lake-town, which was built wholly anew after 
Smaug’s death. Entering the fortified mountain-city, 
however, is not such an easy task. Dwarves are often 
suspicious, and the dark days of Smaug have done 
nothing to ameliorate their spirit. Erebor is guarded 
ceaselessly, and ravens can be seen circling the skies 
above the Mountain and the surrounding region at any 
hour. The Front Gate is closed soon after nightfall, and a 
strong garrison surveys all who pass through it during the 
day. Those expecting a warm welcome from the Dwarves 
of the Lonely Mountain are in for a bitter surprise.  
•	
Dwarves of any house not currently dwelling in 
the Lonely Mountain are welcome to visit Erebor, 
though if they wish to stay, or acquire a home or 
workshop, they must show what skills they have to 
offer their peers. A Proficiency Bonus of +4 or more 
is sufficiently impressive to grant them a place.
•	
Merchants and traders who show up at the Front 
Gate are invariably turned away and instead 
directed to the townships of Dale and Esgaroth, as 
is anyone seeking an apprenticeship with a Dwarf-
smith. Only a handful of young Bardings are 
granted the privilege of entering Erebor on a regular 
basis, as they are pupils coming to visit their masters 
thanks to special agreements, often tied to promises 
and favours tracing back to the days of the Battle of 
the Five Armies.
•	
Adventurers who wish to enter Erebor for the first 
time must be accompanied by someone who has 
already access to the Dwarven realm — either a 
Dwarf of Erebor or a patron who is respected in 
the Mountain (Gandalf or Beorn, for example). 
Otherwise, they will be refused admittance.
•	
Everyone else wishing to enter the Kingdom under 
the Mountain is stopped at the Gate and asked to 
give a reason for their visit. Wanderers moved by 
idle curiosity are not granted access, as is anyone not 
travelling to Erebor on an official errand from some 
friend of the Dwarves.
•	
Companions who have the King under the Mountain 
as a patron may send word to him at the gate and 
ask for permission to enter. 
Normally, when someone is granted admittance they 
are not allowed to go beyond the Upper Halls of Erebor. 
Anyone caught trespassing will be imprisoned. 
Entering the Lonely Mountain
The Kingdom Under the Mountain

--- PAGE 12 ---
Lonely Mountain Region Guide
12
Upon Dáin’s coronation, the King decreed that every Dwarf 
leaving the Kingdom under the Mountain on business 
should return one year hence, bringing marble suitable 
for building, as tribute to the kingdom. As an exemplary 
gesture, Dáin brought a huge block of red porphyry from 
his own home in the Iron Hills, and used it as the Front 
Gate’s new lintel. Even though Dáin’s order has since been 
lifted, entering the Front Gate bringing a small piece of 
marble is considered a token of respect and two large piles 
of these “marble offerings” now lie on either side of the 
hall immediately past the gate. 
All who pass through the Gate of Erebor do so under the 
watchful eyes of the guards under the orders of Dwalin, 
one of the renowned members of Thorin’s Company. A 
vast system of pulleys and wheels allows the mighty doors 
to be opened and closed with great speed. Beyond the 
gate, the Main Road of Erebor plunges into the depths of 
the Mountain. 
The ‘Stone Guard’
The warriors that keep guard over the Gate and streets 
of Erebor are stout Dwarves, old veterans of many wars. 
They all have seen some two hundred winters or more, 
and are on indefinite leave from their King, free to mind 
their families and personal businesses. It is entirely of 
their own will that they have taken up the duty of keeping 
a watch over their underground home, under the nominal 
lead of Dwalin, their eldest. Equipped with their most 
trusted gear, mended mail coats and notched axes and 
shields, they are affectionately referred to as the ‘Stone 
Guard’, as opposed to the famed Iron Guard of the King 
under the Mountain. 
Stone Guard
Medium Dwarf
STR 
16 (+3)
DEX 
11 (+0)
CON 
15 (+2)
INT 
10 (+0)
WIS 
13 (+1)
CHA 
11 (+0)
Armour Class 16 (Ring-mail, Shield)
Hit Points 32 (5d8+10)
Speed 25 ft
Skills Investigation +2, Perception +3
Senses passive Perception 13, night vision
Languages Khuzdûl, Westron
Challenge 1 (200 XP)
Baruk Khazâd! If the Stone Guard’s attack reduces his 
target to 0 hit points, he may use his bonus action to 
move up to half of his speed and make another attack 
against a different target.
Old Hatred. When the Stone Guard is fighting Orc-kind 
with a melee weapon, he can re-roll his weapon’s damage 
die and use either total.
Actions
Axe. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 7 (1d8+3) slashing damage or 8 (1d10+3) 
slashing damage if used with two hands.

--- PAGE 13 ---
13
The River Running
A rushing stream, the source of the River Running, flows 
alongside the passage that runs through the Front Gate. 
Its boiling waters are funnelled into a narrow channel 
that splits into two arms at the Gate, letting the river 
descend beneath the bridge outside in two falls before 
flowing in a wide loop around Dale and back to the 
southern spur. 
The river then flows towards the Long Lake, where the Men 
of Lake-town ply their trade, starting the long course that 
will bring its waters across Rhovanion and thence east to 
the Sea of Rhûn, past the land of Dorwinion. Even after the 
arrival of the Dragon at the Lonely Mountain and the exile 
of the Dwarves, the River Running remained an important 
trading route for the Elves of Mirkwood, the old town of 
Esgaroth and many of the lands to the south.
Now, the great bridge to the Front Gate is restored, and the 
waterfalls that feed the River Running cascade from the 
Mountain, forming a natural defence for the Dwarf hold 
and a means of hauling heavy trade goods to the docks 
of Dale. The river has once more become the lifeblood of 
prosperity in the region. 
The Great Chamber of Thrór
The Great Chamber of Thrór is the seat of the King under 
the Mountain. Lying a short distance from the Main Road 
leading to the Front Gate, the pulsating heart of Erebor 
is a wide feast-hall, hewn from a large, natural cave, but 
decorated with such skill that each corner of it is filled 
with sculptures and graven runes providing the finest 
examples of Dwarven stone-craft. 
It is here that Dwarves and emissaries come to pledge 
their allegiance to the King, while great gatherings are 
held on feast days, to eat and drink, sing and cheer. At 
other times, the King holds his council within the hall. 
Then, both entrances to the Great Chamber are set under 
heavy guard until the council’s business is complete. 
The King under the Mountain rules over a fractious 
folk, a congregation of many different clans that have 
not been subject to a crown for many centuries. For 
every clan there are a dozen chieftains, and many ill-
tempered warriors, and even more smiths and miners used 
to carrying out their duties following the instructions of 
no one but themselves. But Durin’s folk are once again 
united, and everyone must learn to work together if the 
kingdom is to be preserved. 
With this goal in mind, the King regularly calls for a 
council to deal with any problem or concern affecting 
Erebor as a whole. While Dáin ultimately decides what 
will be done, those summoned to attend are called to 
offer the King useful advice on the matter at hand, from 
the smelting of ore, to the miners’ troubles and to the 
brewing of good beer. 
The council’s greatest worth lies in helping to mediate 
the disagreements between the various divisions of 
Dwarves working under the Mountain. All the major 
groups within Erebor are asked to send representatives: 
the miners, the smiths and the merchants all send several 
members, representing different factions within those 
groups. Many important and influential Dwarf advisors 
are also called to appear at the council, including various 
members of Thorin’s Company. 
The full council meets rarely, as there are few issues that 
require everyone to be present and even on such occasions, 
many of its members prefer to be about their work, and 
will often send apprentices to speak for them. On the 
rare occasions that the King has desired to see the full 
council, Dáin has had to send members of the Iron Guard 
to roust some of them from their workshops. 
Companions who bring grave or important news to the 
attention of the Lonely Mountain may be summoned 
before the council to discuss what they have learned. 
Indeed, a Dwarf of high standing and Wisdom may be 
asked to sit upon the council. 
The King’s Council
The Kingdom Under the Mountain

--- PAGE 14 ---
Lonely Mountain Region Guide
14
When the great restoration works began, the King made 
it a point of honour not only to bring the hall back to its 
former glory, but to surpass it. The chamber’s high roof 
echoes once more to the sound of the King’s speeches, 
the songs of his warriors and the cheers of the Dwarves. 
The seat of the King under the Mountain dominates the 
hall, set against the great Cup of Thrór, a huge golden 
chalice that is one of the most valuable treasures in the 
hold. 
The hall is accessed by large, gold-chased doors of foot-
thick oak at the front and rear. The front doors lead to the 
Main Road that runs through the Front Gate. The back 
doors behind the Cup of Thrór lead down to a long series 
of stairs and passages, and thence to the Great Hall of 
Thráin, which was where the Arkenstone was once kept. 
Off to the side of the hall lie a series of functional rooms: 
a council room for the most secret meetings or private 
audiences with the King; a vast kitchen and adjoining 
pantry in which feasts are prepared; a guardroom and 
armoury; and the King’s private library, from which few 
but the King himself know that a secret passage leads out 
to the eastern slopes of the Mountain. 
The Iron Guard
The dwarves are exceedingly strong for their height, but 
most of these were strong even for dwarves. In battle they 
wielded heavy two-handed mattocks… their beards were 
forked and plaited and thrust into their belts… and their 
faces were grim. 
The King’s personal bodyguard is composed of tough 
Dwarves of the Iron Hills, and new recruits continue to 
be drawn from the finest warriors from Dáin’s former 
home. Many among those of superior rank are close kin 
to the King, cousins and nephews of different degrees of 
lineage. 
Every visitor admitted to the Chamber of Thrór is subject 
to their stern gaze, seen glowering from behind their 
grim iron face-masks, wrought to be hideous to behold. 
The King’s bodyguards are known as the ‘Iron Guard’, a 
testament not only to their homeland, but also to their will 
and courage, even if some would say that their monicker 
betrays that their loyalty is not to the Kingdom under the 
Mountain, but to its current king: Dáin, the Ironfoot. 
Iron Guard
Medium Dwarf
STR 
17 (+3)
DEX 
12 (+1)
CON 
19 (+4)
INT 
11 (+0)
WIS 
14 (+2)
CHA 
8 (-1)
Armour Class 14 (Ring-mail)
Hit Points 59 (7d8+28)
Speed 25 ft
Skills Insight +4, Perception +4
Senses passive Perception 14, night vision
Languages Khuzdûl, Westron
Challenge 2 (450 XP)
Khazâd ai-mênu! If the Iron Guard’s attack misses, he 
may use his bonus action to make another attack against 
the same target.
Warrior’s Charge. The Iron Guard has Advantage on all 
attacks made in the first round of combat.
Actions
Mattock. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 10 (2d6+3) piercing damage.

--- PAGE 15 ---
15
The Lower Halls
It might be said that the true home of Durin’s folk lies 
in the Lower Halls of Erebor. Here, the extension of the 
excavations is astounding, and the number of rooms, 
chambers and halls is beyond measure. The life of the 
Dwarves of the Mountain thrives in the depths, away from 
the light of the sun and the prying eyes of strangers. 
Stángard
Stángard, meaning “Stone Enclousure or “Stone Court” 
in the tongue of the Northemen, is the main residential 
district of Erebor. It can be compared to a wide township, 
consisting of many homes, shops, drinking halls and 
counting-houses. Six wide, winding stairways stretch out 
from a central square, one for each spur of the Mountain, 
each one leading to a different part of Stángard. The 
stairways are numbered, the First Stair being the one 
leading to the part of the city lying below the Southern 
Spur of the Lonely Mountain, the one pointing in the 
direction of lost Khazad-dûm (despite its name, the ridge 
is oriented to the south-west). 
The great part of the Dwarves of Erebor live in Stángard, 
and from here they descend daily into the chambers and 
shafts known as “The Deeps” to mine for ore and gems; 
others head into the many workshops and furnaces of the 
Mountain to craft the wondrous jewellery, weapons and 
armour for which Erebor is justly famed. 
When not going about their business, which can be 
rare in Durin’s folk, for they have a tendency to bury 
themselves in their crafts, many Dwarves spend their 
time in the square in the centre of Stángard. Here is 
where food-supplies are bought and drink can always be 
found, for the Dwarves work the mines and foundries of 
Erebor in great ongoing shifts throughout the day and 
night, resulting in hungry and thirsty miners and smiths 
coming off work at nearly every hour. Dwarven voices 
raised in song continually ring out of lively drinking 
halls here, to be stilled only rarely by a tale well told. 
Except for fellow Dwarves, few visitors ever walk the 
carven streets of Stángard, or see the rare Dwarf-children 
run between the square’s stalls and shops, or hear the 
tinkling of small tools as delicate jewellery is crafted by 
the Folk of Durin as a pleasant way to pass the time. 
The Great Hall of Thráin
This vast chamber was once Erebor’s main hall for 
feasting and celebration, and also where the finest of the 
Mountain’s treasures was kept safe: the Arkenstone. That 
was before the coming of Smaug, who chose to make this 
his lair, lying on his bed of gold and gems amongst the 
bodies of the dead. The Great Hall is no longer filled with 
the riches of Erebor; they have all been moved to smaller, 
safer vaults and the hall cleansed as best the Dwarves 
can. The Great Hall often lies empty now, a dark place 
deemed unwholesome still by King Dáin, used mainly as 
a passageway between other halls. 
The Great Hall of Thráin can be accessed down many long 
stairs and winding passages from the Great Chamber of 
Thrór, and also from the secret Back Door in the side of the 
Mountain. Other passages lead away from the Great Hall 
to artisan workshops, vaults filled with treasure, and the 
Chamber of Mazarbul under Erebor. The side-chambers 
of the Great Hall have also been cleared, and it is here, in 
silent repose, that Thorin Oakenshield’s tomb lies. 
The Forges
The “Forges” are a general reference that Durin’s folk 
make to the many smithies, workshops and furnaces 
spread among the depths of the Lonely Mountain. There 
are forges of various kinds on every level of the Lower 
Halls. Those of the deeper levels tend to be furnaces 
where precious metals, iron, and steel are smelted and 
worked. The forges nearest to Stángard’s residential 
district are often the workshops of jewellers, engravers 
and stone-cutters. In the higher levels of the Lower Halls 
reside the laboratories of toy-makers and those rare 
Dwarves who pursue some of the more esoteric of their 
crafts, such as the carving of certain special runes and 
the writing of moon-letters. 
The Smiths of Erebor
The countless workshops of the Lower Halls ring day and 
night with the sound of smiths’ hammers and the tinkling 
of small tools scraping over stone. Though the metalwork 
of  Erebor’s smiths is not as majestic as their forefathers’, 
they still make armour and weapons that are the envy of 
the best smiths of Men. In stonework though, their skills 
may yet surpass those of their ancestors. While the Folk of 
Durin are completely loyal to King Dáin, they still guard 
the secrets of their respective crafts quite carefully. 
The Kingdom Under the Mountain

--- PAGE 16 ---
Lonely Mountain Region Guide
16
Erebor Smith
Medium Dwarf
STR 
15 (+2)
DEX 
13 (+1)
CON 
12 (+1)
INT 
16 (+3)
WIS 
12 (+1)
CHA 
8 (-1)
Armour Class 12 (Shop Leathers)
Hit Points 16 (3d8+3)
Speed 25 ft
Skills History +5, Smith’s Tools +5
Senses passive Perception 11, night vision
Languages Khuzdûl, Westron
Challenge 1/4 (50 XP)
Secret Craft (1/day). The Smith can use his bonus action 
to gain Advantage on one ability check (including tools).
Stiff Necks. If one or more Smiths are present for 
an Audience and the speaker for the Company is 
not a Dwarf, the Introduction Check is made with 
Disadvantage.
Actions
Hammer. Melee or Thrown Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, 
reach 5 ft or range 20/60 ft, one target. Hit: 4 (1d4+2) 
bludgeoning damage.
The Back Door
In a hidden, steep-walled bay, nestled between the two 
westernmost spurs of the Lonely Mountain, a disused 
path can be found. The path is an overgrown trail of rough-
hewn steps that winds its way up the mountainside, to a 
narrow, grassy ledge. This ledge is known only to a few as 
“the Doorstep”, for it marks the location of a secret door, 
once known only to the line of the Dwarf-kings of Erebor. 
From the outside, the Back Door has been cunningly 
concealed to blend into the natural rock face; all but 
impossible to find, and even harder to open except with 
the Key to Erebor. From the inside, however, it can be 
opened more readily — if not easily. 
Despite the door’s weight, it swings silently, and the 
passageway beyond is smooth sided and smooth-floored, 
gently descending eventually to the Great Hall of Thráin. 
It is likely, then, that the original intent of the door was a 
secret escape route for the King under the Mountain in the 
event of a siege, whereupon he, his family and his guards 
could leave Erebor undetected, with the greatest of their 
treasures in tow. 
The Chamber of Mazarbul under Erebor
Beyond the Great Hall of Thráin, protected by a sturdy 
stone door, lies a wide rectangular hall. This chamber 
holds the great library and records of the Dwarves of 
Erebor. Ignored by Smaug (for he could smell no gold 
here) the hall holds books, stone tablets, ledgers, scrolls, 
and annals stretching back to well before the foundations 
of the Lonely Mountain. The chamber’s dry air serves as 
an excellent preservative for the paper here and many of 
the centuries-old books appear as if they were recently 
written. Dwarves are always on the lookout for ancient 
manuscripts of their folk to bring to this hall, and would 
pay handsomely any adventurer who would return from 
the ruins of a fallen mansion of the Dwarves with any sort 
of document. Little by little, Munin, the Keeper of Records, 
is adding to the collection with great care and reverence, 
hoping that the time will come when the chamber will be 
the greatest repository of knowledge in the North. 
The Tomb of Thorin Oakenshield
Though Thorin succeeded in liberating Erebor from 
Smaug’s clutches, he fell in the Battle of Five Armies. The 
returning Dwarves constructed a great tomb for their fallen 
hero, set in an ante-room accessed through the Great Hall 
of Thráin. Here, Bard the Bowman and Thranduil of the 
Elves visited the fallen Thorin to pay their last respects. 
Bard placed the Arkenstone upon Thorin’s breast, where 
it lies still. Thranduil placed Orcrist at Thorin’s side, 
where it will emit a brilliant glow if Erebor is ever again 
endangered by Orcs and their foul kin.

--- PAGE 17 ---
17
The Arkenstone of Thráin
"That stone of all the treasure I name unto myself, 
and I will be avenged on anyone who finds it and 
withholds it."  
Found in the deep mines of Erebor in the earliest 
days of the Dwarf-hold’s founding, this pale jewel 
– known as "the Heart of the Mountain" – is the 
greatest treasure ever unearthed by the Dwarves. The 
skill of the Dwarf-smiths transformed the already 
beautiful stone into a fist-sized orb, with a thousand 
flawless facets; it shines with an inner luminescence, 
but when the merest sliver of outer light falls upon 
it, it gleams like water in the sunlight, shot through 
with the colours of the rainbow. 
In the centuries after its discovery, the Arkenstone 
became an heirloom of the Kings of Durin’s folk. 
Thráin’s son, Thorin, carried it away into the Grey 
Mountains where it remained until King Thrór 
brought it back to the Great Hall of Thráin. When 
the Dragon Smaug sacked Erebor, the Arkenstone 
was thought lost, lying among Smaug’s treasure 
trove in the bottommost cellar until Bilbo Baggins 
discovered it and gave it to Bard. After the Battle of 
Five Armies, enmity was set aside between the leaders 
of the Dwarves, Elves and Men, and Bard of Dale 
placed the Heart of the Mountain in Thorin’s tomb. 
Nearly a thousand years after its discovery, the 
Arkenstone is buried once more beneath the Lonely 
Mountain. 
•	
The Arkenstone is a Wondrous Artefact with 
a Greater Blessing of Intimidation (See the 
Loremaster’s Guide, page 127).
The Deeps
As they had with Khazad-dûm before it, when the Dwarves 
first colonised Erebor they began delving deep into the 
caverns under the Mountain. There, the Dwarves found gold 
and precious stones in abundance, and over the centuries 
the scale of the mines grew along with their fame. Yet, the 
Dwarves that delved here did so with memories of Moria 
and have exercised greater caution in how deep they are 
willing to go. The mines are organised into many ‘deeps’, 
which range from simple shafts, where the Dwarves work 
for ore and gemstones, to large vaults, storerooms, cellars 
and workshops. In some deeps, great smelters work day 
and night, producing ingots for the forge halls high above. 
Other deeps produce coins of silver and gold. 
The heart of the deeps is a huge central shaft, filled with 
great spans of stone stretching between various dig sites. 
Mines of every shape, size and type are bored out from this 
shaft, though many are presently filled in or collapsed. 
Since the restoration of the hold, only a fraction of the 
old mines have resumed operation, but even so it is an 
impressive venture. 
Some of the closed shafts are still marked with ancient 
warning runes. They lead to far older caverns that were 
blocked in the time of Thorin the First, possibly to protect 
Durin’s folk from terrors burrowing in the depths. None 
still live who can remember what, if anything, lies down 
those dark tunnels, but some whisper of unquiet spirits 
and scuttling monsters, and about the earth itself opening 
up to gobble down trespassers. Sentries patrol the bridges 
of the central shaft and the disused tunnels regularly, 
lest something hideous stir beneath the earth and catch 
Erebor unaware.
The Mountain’s Sides
While the delver mines in the depths of Erebor, the mason 
builds atop its summit. The Dwarves have started a 
number of construction endeavours upon the sides of the 
Lonely Mountain that will keep them busy for decades to 
come and that will surely make the house of the folk of 
Durin one of the wonders of the North. 
Thráin’s Towers 
The most ambitious of all of the projects of the Dwarves 
of Erebor has been under way since the refounding of the 
realm. The foundations of six identical watchtowers have 
been laid in the living stone of the stony ridges that make 
up the Lonely Mountain, and unprecedented fundings are 
being set aside for their construction. For their purpose 
will not simply be that of giving the dwellers of the Lonely 
Mountain a warning should enemies approach their 
fastness, but to give them a weapon against their direst of 
enemies: the Dragons. 
The Kingdom Under the Mountain

--- PAGE 18 ---
Lonely Mountain Region Guide
18
King Dáin’s objective is to create a chamber inside each 
tower capable of capturing the winds, in the manner of 
those built of old by the Dwarves of the Grey Mountains. 
Under the right combination of air currents, these 
“Chambers of Winds” were known to resonate mightily, 
creating a thunderous dirge capable of deafening and 
keeping away the Worms of the North. 
But the secrets of their construction seem to escape the 
grasp of the most cunning engineers of Durin’s folk; 
complex calculations are being made in great secret every 
day, and countless drafts for the structure of Thráin’s 
Towers have been drawn and discarded. Maybe some 
specification about the materials to be used has been lost, 
or maybe magic was employed and no trace of its use 
survived in the records? With each passing day, King Dáin 
considers with more attention the counsel of those who 
suggest that an expedition be organised to go and find an 
intact “Chamber of the Winds”, to examine… (Loremasters 
should see Wilderland Adventures, page 139.) 
The Ice Terrace 
High upon the southern slope of the Lonely Mountain, 
a mere bowshot down from the heights where the snow 
does not melt, the first of many planned terraces has been 
carved out of the mountainside. The Ice Terrace overlooks 
much of Wilderland. Looking down from its lofty position, 
one can easily see Dale far below, Lake-town to the south, 
and the dark reaches of Mirkwood stretching out to the 
south and west. Yet the terrace was not built for peering 
down, but for gazing up. The Ice Terrace is both Erebor’s 
observatory, used for charting the course of stars and the 
moon, and its most unusual workshop. A large portion 
of the terrace holds an enclosed laboratory with a clear 
crystal ceiling. Here, moon-letters are engraved, and the 
lights of the night sky are sometimes caught by master 
stonecutters in cunningly wrought gems. 
Ravenhill 
An outlying height at the extremity of Erebor’s great 
southern spur, Ravenhill is the site of a large guard tower 
directly overlooking the River Running and the city of Dale. 
The height takes its name from the long-lived ravens that 
roost above the watchpost’s chambers. At the time of the 
destruction of Erebor, the chief of these magnificent birds 
was Carc, known by the Dwarves to be exceptionally 
wise and, like many of his kind, capable of speech. When 
Thorin returned to the Lonely Mountain 171 years later, 
Carc was dead, but the ravens remained, led by his son, 
the ancient and balding Roäc (see page 20). 
The ravens of the hill have always been loyal allies of the 
Dwarves, relaying messages and secret tidings for Durin’s 
folk in exchange for gold and trinkets to scatter about 
their mountainside nests. Those Dwarf warriors who 
man the guard-post today are chosen from amongst the 
bird-friends of Erebor, so as to maintain good terms with 
the ancient ravens who provide the Kingdom under the 
Mountain with far-ranging spies. 
Dwarf companions who have befriended a Raven of the 
Mountain will always find a warm welcome here, and can 
find out much that has been learnt by the winged denizens 
of Ravenhill.
Notable Characters
Since the refounding of the Kingdom under the Mountain, 
Erebor has become home to a host of mighty and revered 
lords of the Dwarves. To rub shoulders with such heroes is 
a singular honour extended to few, and their very presence 
in the Lonely Mountain brings renown to the hold. 
Dáin Ironfoot, King under the Mountain
There now Dáin son of Náin took up his abode, and he 
became King under the Mountain, and in time many other 
Dwarves gathered to his throne in the ancient halls. 
Dáin Ironfoot, son of Náin and cousin to Thorin, is now 
King under the Mountain. Once lord of the Iron Hills, 
he has ruled over Erebor since the death of his cousin 
Thorin Oakenshield following the Battle of Five Armies. 
He has overseen an unprecedented period of peace and 
prosperity for the Dwarves of the Lonely Mountain. 
King Dáin is stern and proud, known throughout the 
land as a strong ruler. He has forged peace not only with 
the Men of Lake-town but also the Elves of Mirkwood, 
and he became famed for his generosity. By replenishing 
the long-dwindled wealth of Durin’s folk and brokering 
alliances with his neighbours, Dáin has assured Erebor’s 
position as the mightiest stronghold in the North. He 
does, however, remain suspicious of his new allies; he has 
a deep mistrust of Elves, and while he trusts Bard, he is

--- PAGE 19 ---
19
wary of the weakness of Men as far as the temptations of 
the Shadow are concerned. 
Dáin came to prominence as a mere stripling during the 
War of the Dwarves and Orcs, and he joined the fray in 
the battle at Azanulbizar. Azog, the great Orc, killed his 
father at the east entrance of Moria. The young Dáin, filled 
with rage, raced up the steps of the gate and slew Azog 
where he stood. Such a feat from one so young was seen as 
near-impossible, and that single act of martial prowess and 
courage turned the battle in the Dwarves’ favour. However, 
when the Dwarves looked to their new lord for their orders, 
Dáin showed the sage judgement that he has carried into 
rulership ever since. He looked into the darkness of Moria, 
and knew that, even with the Orcs driven out, it was no 
longer a home for Dwarves. He led his people away from 
Khazad-dûm, never to return. Dáin Ironfoot maintains the 
proud traditions of a warrior-king; he keeps his friends 
close and his enemies closer, the crown placed upon his 
troubled brow, his war gear always ready. 
An Audience with Dáin
Dáin is almost two centuries old, but as any hale Dwarf 
lord, he is not so old that he can no longer swing an axe 
or instil respect in those around him. He is stout, even for 
a Dwarf, and it is clear to all who meet him that great 
strength still flows through his limbs. His plaited red hair 
and forked beard are streaked through with silver, and his 
wrinkled skin is tough and leathery. He looks every inch 
the warrior-born, and yet in conversation he is measured, 
insightful and quietly spoken. Even though he now has a 
mithril crown upon his head, he still wears the humble 
iron-shod shoes of a miner. Like all Dwarves he is direct, 
yet he is not without either patience or subtlety. Unlike 
some of his kind he is reluctant to cause offence and slow 
to anger – though there is no doubt that it would be unwise 
to raise his ire. 
When not within his private quarters in the upper levels 
of the mountain, Dáin is most often found in the Great 
Chamber of Thrór, holding council or presiding over his 
official duties. Sometimes he reads alone late at night in 
the Chamber of Mazarbul, paces the bottommost cellar or 
stands for many hours beside Thorin’s Tomb. 
A hero may request an audience with the King under the 
Mountain, but Dáin is a stickler for formality and does not 
grant his time lightly. More likely, a hero will be summoned 
to Dáin’s presence, coming to the King’s attention due to 
some great deed, or given some task to complete to prove 
his allegiance to the Lonely Mountain. 
A public audience, to pay tribute or swear fealty, is 
undertaken in the Great Chamber of Thrór, with the Dwarf 
council and the Iron Guard in attendance. If the Hero has 
earned a private audience, however, he will be taken to 
the council-room or some other chamber while business 
is discussed. 
Motivation: The weight of the Lonely Mountain is upon 
my shoulders, speak plainly how you may assist me. 
Otherwise, do not add to my burdens.
Expectations: +2 if the heroes observe all the long-
winded customs of Dwarven audiences without stinting or 
grumbling; +1 if the heroes are forthright without being 
rude; -2 if the Company expects Dáin to provide a solution 
to them or express a lack of patience.
The Kingdom Under the Mountain

--- PAGE 20 ---
Lonely Mountain Region Guide
20
Dáin as a Patron
It is not easy to win the confidence of a Dwarf, let 
alone one who has seen as much battle and toil as 
Dáin Ironfoot. It is harder still to mislead, flatter 
or trick him, for his steely eyes seem to penetrate the 
very heart of all who linger in his presence. For those 
he trusts, and those who are honest, Dáin is a warm 
host and shrewd advisor, but he has many demands 
on his time — a sure way to fall out of his favour is 
to bother him repeatedly with trivialities. Companies 
that have King Dáin as a Patron may come and go 
from Erebor as they like, though they are expected to 
act with proper decorum at all times. 
Dáin Ironfoot
Medium Dwarf
STR 
19 (+4)
DEX 
10 (+0)
CON 
17 (+3)
INT 
13 (+1)
WIS 
17 (+3)
CHA 
12 (+1)
Armour Class 19 (magical Dwarf-wrought Hauberk)
Hit Points 105 (14d8+42)
Speed 25 ft
Skills Insight +6, Perception +6, Traditions +4
Damage Resistances: piercing from non-magical attacks
Senses passive Perception 16, night vision
Languages Khuzdûl, Westron
Challenge 8 (3,900 XP)
Baruk Khazâd! If Dáin’s attack reduces his target to 0 hit 
points, he may use his bonus action to move up to half of his 
speed and make another attack against a different target.
Khazâd ai-mênu! If Dáin’s attack misses, he may use his 
bonus action to attack the same target again.
Runes of Protection. Dáin’s armour provides resistance 
to non-magical piercing damage (noted above).
Actions
Multiattack. Dáin makes three attacks with his red axe.
The Red Axe. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 
5 ft, one target. Hit: 13 (1d12+1d4+4) magical slashing 
damage (see page 112).
Reaction
Great Might (Recharge 5-6). Dáin may use his reaction 
when he takes damage from a melee or ranged weapon 
attack to reduce his damage taken by 4, to a minimum of 
1 point of damage taken.
Munin, Keeper of Records
A venerable Dwarf of many winters, Munin is the head 
archivist of the Chamber of Marzabul under Erebor. Lore 
of the elder days that exists nowhere else in the North, 
save perhaps the halls of Rivendell, lies within his charge. 
Companions with the support of King Dáin, or another 
noteworthy Dwarf, may be able to get his assistance in 
researching old records, as his memory remains quite 
sharp, though he is short with outsiders and any he 
considers to be wasting his time. 
Munin has a long white beard that just touches the floor. 
Unfortunately, despite his amazing grasp of ancient lore, 
dealing with Munin can be trying; at his advanced age 
(well over 200) his hearing is failing, however, he refuses 
to accept this and abhors shouting as he believes it implies 
disrespect. 
Motivation: There are no words in any tongue to relay 
how happy I am that Erebor was recovered when I feared 
it lost forever.
Expectations: +2 if the Company is able to bring new 
knowledge to Munin — many records of the old kingdom 
are still missing; -2 if they are ‘shouting’ — those talking 
with Munin have to raise their voices high enough to be 
heard, but not so high as to make him think he is being 
yelled at. 
Roäc the Raven
The chief of the great ravens of Ravenhill, Roäc is ancient 
even for one of his kind. When Thorin and company came 
to Erebor for vengeance upon Smaug, Roäc was already 
more than 150 years old, and marked by age. 
It was Roäc who flew to Thorin’s Company with news that 
Smaug had been slain by Bard the Bowman, and who 
sent his ravens to Dáin of the Iron Hills with word to bring 
reinforcements to protect the treasure of Erebor. 
The son of Carc, said by the Dwarves to be the greatest 
lord of the ravens ever to have lived, Roäc has inherited 
much of his noble father’s wisdom. He rightly warned 
Thorin that the treasure that had brought him to Erebor 
would be his death, and even now is a trusted ally and 
counsellor to the Dwarves. Roäc is now so ancient that he 
rarely leaves his mountainside nest, but his ravens range

--- PAGE 21 ---
21
far and see all — there is no movement within the north of 
Wilderland that Roäc does not know of. 
Motivation: Of highest importance is the safety of the 
Mountain. 
Expectations: +1 if the Company announces that they will 
abide by Roäc’s advice — he’s used to stubborn Dwarves 
and pleased that his wisdom does not fall on deaf ears. -2 
if they do not treat him as an equal — despite his great age 
his knowledge is vast.
The Surviving Members of 
Thorin’s Company
The Dwarves who joined the Quest for Erebor have all 
become justifiably renowned among their folk. Indeed, 
the Bardings of Dale and the folk of Lake-town sing the 
names and deeds of the companions of the Oakenshield. 
While they did not receive a fourteenth share of Smaug’s 
treasure, they are all quite wealthy and many of them 
serve the Kingdom under the Mountain in one way or 
another. 
Customisation notes are provided below but most of 
the members of the company can be readily represented 
by the Dwarf-Lord entry on page 78 of the Loremaster’s 
Guide.
Glóin the Emissary
The skill of most Dwarves, it is said, lies in their hands, 
whether they are wielding tools or weapons. While Glóin 
is a veteran of a great many battles, and can swing an 
axe with the best of them, his tongue is his truest tool and 
weapon. Since the Battle of Five Armies, Glóin has swiftly 
become one of the most favoured of Dáin’s envoys. He is 
trusted to advance the interests of the Lonely Mountain in 
such a way as to make Erebor’s position clear, while not 
unduly upsetting allies. A trying position, but Glóin does 
it with grace, even on the rare occasions when he has to 
deal with Wood Elves, who he regards poorly. 
Glóin serves as the Kingdom under the Mountain’s 
main ambassador to Esgaroth. He has a well-appointed 
mansion in Lake-town where he spends several weeks a 
year, working on a wide variety of trade issues with the Men 
of the Lake. His valiant son Gimli regularly accompanies 
him on his journeys on Erebor’s behalf. 
Glóin is exceedingly well-spoken and generally kindly to 
all (save Wood Elves). Glóin favours white garments, or 
brightly coloured ones trimmed with white, matching the 
colour of his forked beard. 
Motivation: I am a representative of King Dáin and I will 
bear myself accordingly, no matter the situation.
Expectations: +1 if the Company expressing willingness 
to compromise — Gloin knows that diplomacy is built 
on both parties giving up a little; -2 if they have a Elf of 
Mirkwood as their speaker — Gloin has never forgotten his 
rough treatment at their hands.
Customisation: Add Persuasion +5 to the Dwarf-Lord’s 
list of skills to represent Gloin. In battle he wields the Axe 
Under the Mountain (Superior Fell, Gleam of Terror).
Óin the Healer
Óin is Glóin’s older brother. The two have little in common, 
save their knack for building fires and their love for one 
another. Where Glóin is subtle, Óin is blunt. Where Glóin 
can make even the most unpleasant news easier to hear, 
Óin is brutally, painfully honest. Far more belligerent than 
his younger brother, Óin remains a fierce warrior but a 
skilled healer. His expertise with herbs, potions and salves 
is profound, almost rivalling that of the Elves of Rivendell. 
Like his brother, Óin too, has become an emissary for 
Dain, but Óin is typically sent on longer journeys to folk 
who prefer action to fair speech. Óin has a sharp sense of 
The Kingdom Under the Mountain

--- PAGE 22 ---
Lonely Mountain Region Guide
22
humour, though he skewers himself as readily as others 
he meets on the road. Óin keeps his beard short, a habit 
he developed after a particularly unpleasant encounter 
with spiders in Mirkwood. He favours brown garments, 
the better to go unnoticed in the Wild. 
Motivation: Are you friend or foe? Do you oppose the 
King under the Mountain? Answer quickly, for you have 
an impatient Dwarf in your face!
Expectations: +1 if the heroes answer directly without 
bluster; +2 if they are willing to laugh at themselves
Customisation: Add Medicine +5 to the Dwarf-Lord to 
represent Ori’s skill with herbs.
Bifur the Trader
Bifur is the son of a smith from the Iron Hills and a far-
travelled Dwarf, who has seen much of the North and 
the West. After the Battle of Five Armies, Bifur took on a 
position as one of Dáin’s emissaries to Erebor’s trading 
partners. He now spends much of his time travelling 
between Ironthorpe, near the Iron Hills, and the Lonely 
Mountain, ensuring that the regular shipments of ore that 
move along the road between the two don’t go ‘astray’. 
Bifur is a sturdy middle-aged Dwarf with silver streaking 
his black beard. He carries an elaborately carved walking 
cane bound with strands of Mithril, a family heirloom, 
though his mattock is often near to hand as well. Bifur 
occasionally needs the help of adventurous sorts to 
guard especially valuable shipments or look into unusual 
matters he has heard about on the road. Bifur tends to 
speak in quick bursts of words, saying several things 
at once in rapid succession, before falling silent for an 
uncomfortably long amount of time afterwards. 
Motivation: I am looking for trustworthy sorts who are 
willing to brave the Wild on behalf of the King.
Expectations: +2 if the Company are well-worn — Bifur 
cares little for fancy clothes or exquisite manners; -1 if 
they’re shy about money matters — he expects to pay for 
good service, though not too much, of course.
Customisation: Add “Walking Songs. If the companions 
travel with Bifur, once upon the journey they can make a 
DC 10 Charisma (Performance) check. If successful, the 
hero gains Inspiration.” to the Dwarf-Lord entry.
Bofur the Miner
Bifur’s cousin and Bombur’s brother, Bofur was raised 
in the hard environs of the Blue Mountains. A miner 
and occasional explorer, Bofur developed a real thirst 
for adventure during his travels with Thorin’s Company. 
Favouring his mattock in battle, Bofur proved himself 
a skilled warrior, time and again fighting fearlessly to 
protect his king.

--- PAGE 23 ---
23
Nowadays, Bofur is most often to be found overseeing 
the excavation of the old deeps, where he takes charge of 
any expeditions into newly opened tunnels. There are few 
Dwarves who know the tunnels and mines as well as Bofur, 
and his prestige among Durin’s folk has only increased in 
the dark tunnels beneath the Lonely Mountain. 
Bofur is a hardy soul, as like as not to start a rousing song 
when excavating and one of the first to throw himself 
into danger if accidents occur or trouble arises. Bofur’s 
son, Bofri, is an emissary to the Woodmen of Mirkwood, 
where he endeavours to follow in his father’s footsteps by 
leading an expedition to reopen the Old Forest Road (see 
Rhovanion Region Guide, page 93). 
Motivation: Do you fear the dark? Not enough, I’d 
warrant.
Expectations: +1 if the Company has fought extensively 
against Orc-kind; -2 if there are no Dwarves among them 
— Bofur knows that many do not rest easy when there’s 
half a mile of solid stone above their heads.
Customisation: Add both History +5 and Performance 
+5 to the Dwarf-Lord to represent Bofur’s interests. 
Bombur the Fat
Bofur’s brother and Bifur’s cousin, Bombur’s immense size 
and voracious appetite caused frequent problems on the 
Quest for Erebor, but his culinary skills and uncanny ability 
to sniff out provisions in the unlikeliest of environments 
along with his jolly nature made his presence essential 
to the morale of the party. Bombur is a well-known and 
beloved figure in both Dale and Erebor, a frequent guest in 
the dining halls and kitchens of both kingdoms. Since the 
Battle of Five Armies, he has dedicated himself to ensuring 
that good food is readily available in the North and has 
quietly backed several spice merchants and taverns.
Bombur’s garrulous nature and friendly demeanour aid 
him in his true duty: spying. Bombur hears all the gossip 
of both Dale and Erebor, along with a great many secrets. 
He filters what he has heard for truth and regularly passes 
what he suspects along to his fellows on the King’s Council. 
Bombur is always looking for new and “interesting” folks 
who can help him stay “in the know” on any important 
matters in Wilderland. He prefers to swap one choice bit 
of news for another, but he will readily pay real coin for 
valuable information. 
Bombur is a rotund Dwarf, with an explosive laugh as 
big as his belly. Despite his love of eating, he keeps his 
large yellow-hued beard fastidiously clean. He expects 
most folks to underestimate him, assuming he is a foolish 
glutton and little more — he greatly values those that can 
see him clearly. 
The Kingdom Under the Mountain

--- PAGE 24 ---
Lonely Mountain Region Guide
24
Motivation: Come drink up and be merry! Tell me again 
whatever news you have, for I seem to have forgotten it.
Expectations: +1 if the heroes go along with Bombur’s 
antics — he really does enjoy culinary delights and new 
tastes; -2 if they’re suspicious of him or interfere with his 
true mission.
Bombur
Medium Dwarf
STR 
15 (+2)
DEX 
8 (-1)
CON 
14 (+2)
INT 
17 (+3)
WIS 
18 (+4)
CHA 
16 (+3)
Armour Class 14 (Ring-mail)
Hit Points 65 (10d8+20)
Speed 25 ft
Skills Deception +7, Insight +8, Perception +8, 
Performance +7
Senses passive Perception 20, night vision
Languages Khuzdûl, Westron
Challenge 3 (700 XP)
Expertise. Bombur doubles his Proficiency Bonus for 
certain skills, noted above.
Riddling Words. If Bombur spends 10 minutes with a 
creature, it must succeed at a DC 14 Wisdom saving 
throw or become Charmed until Bombur gives the 
creature a reason to doubt his sincerity or it takes a long 
rest.
Sneak Attack. Once per turn, Bombur deals an extra 3 
(1d6) damage when he hits a target with a weapon attack 
and has Advantage on the attack roll, or the target is 
within 5 feet of an ally and he doesn’t have Disadvantage 
on the attack roll.
Actions
Short Sword. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 7 (1d6+4) magical piercing damage.
Reactions
Uncanny Dodge. If Bombur can see an attacker that has 
struck him, he may use his reaction to halve that attack’s 
damage.
Balin the Statesman
The elder son of Fundin, Balin was already a noted hero 
among the Dwarves when he accompanied Thorin on the 
Quest for Erebor. Balin is known for his deep wisdom, 
and the hard experience gained in many battles against 
the Orcs. He was Thorin’s closest advisor and, of all the 
Dwarves on the Quest for Erebor, became the closest to 
Bilbo Baggins, a friendship he still treasures. 
Balin presently sits on the King’s Council and his advice 
is widely heeded. He often travels on the King’s business, 
acting as an emissary for Dáin. In the course of his duties, 
he regularly speaks with traders in Dale and frequently 
talks with King Bard. 
Balin is an ageing Dwarf with bright eyes, a long white 
beard and a dark-red cloak. He is always interested in 
news from afar and regularly speaks with travellers on 
his regular visits to Dale. Balin is somewhat disquieted 
about the state of the North, though he is hard pressed 
to put his finger on what troubles him. He buries his 
concerns in regular travel, while occasionally studying old 
records about Khazad-dûm and ruminating on the past 
accomplishments of his folk. 
Motivation: What news of the North, friends? All of us 
who strive against the Enemy should not keep secrets from 
each other.
Expectations: +2 if the Company represents many folk — 
Balin has come to believe that the fate of the North is not 
just in the hands of the Dwarves; -1 if the Company speaks 
to him of secrets or accuses folk of treachery without 
extensive proof.

--- PAGE 25 ---
25
Balin
Medium Dwarf
STR 
16 (+3)
DEX 
10 (+0)
CON 
16 (+3)
INT 
14 (+2)
WIS 
19 (+4)
CHA 
11 (+0)
Armour Class 17 (magical Silver Ring-mail)
Hit Points 82 (11d8+33)
Speed 25 ft
Skills Deception +3, Perception +10, Survival +7, 
Traditions +6
Senses passive Perception 20, night vision
Languages Khuzdûl, Westron
Challenge 6 (2,300 XP)
Chinks in the Armour (Recharge 5-6). Balin can 
use his bonus action to make a Wisdom (Perception) 
check against the AC of his target. If he succeeds, his first 
successful attack roll this round counts as a critical hit.
Expert. Balin doubles his Proficiency Bonus for Perception 
and Traditions (included above).
Khazâd ai-mênu! If Balin’s attack misses, he may use his 
bonus action to make another attack against the same target.
Old Hatred. When Balin is fighting Orc-kind with a melee 
weapon, he can re-roll his weapon’s damage die and use 
either total.
Actions
Multiattack. Balin makes three attacks with his great 
axe.
Great Axe. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 9 (1d12+3) slashing damage.
Reactions
Parry. Balin adds +3 to his AC against one melee attack 
that would hit him. To do so, he must see the attacker and 
be wielding a melee weapon.
Dori the Merchant
Noted as the strongest amongst Thorin’s Company, 
Dori is a staunch warrior and accomplished musician. 
Unlike his brother Nori, Dori’s pessimistic outlook and 
grumbling disposition make him ill-suited to the life of a 
toy-maker and he certainly doesn’t share his brother Ori’s 
love of books. Dori instead decided to establish himself as 
a merchant and, with his connections, he swiftly became 
one of the wealthiest and most successful traders of Erebor. 
Due to his cautiousness and thoroughness, Dori is the 
Dwarf to know when it comes to matters of trade into or 
out of the Lonely Mountain. 
A hale Dwarf of late-middle age with a carefully plaited 
grey beard, Dori regularly travels between Erebor and 
Dale, with sporadic trips to Lake-town throughout the 
year. His dour expression seldom lightens, save when he 
explores the possibility of a swifter death than whatever 
doom he thinks is most likely eminent. 
Despite his outward appearance, Dori is a good-hearted 
soul. He occasionally quietly arranges for “likely fellows” 
to help out folks in desperate need, paying them from 
his own pocket, though he absolutely insists that such 
arrangements be kept strictly confidential. 
Motivation: I always expect the worst, and plan 
accordingly.
Expectations: +1 if the Company brings bad news to 
Dori (thus proving him right, again); -3 if they attempt to 
cheer him up.
Customisation: Change the Dwarf-Lord’s Strength to 20 
(+5) and thus his attack roll to +10 and his damage to 12 
(2d6+5).
The Kingdom Under the Mountain

--- PAGE 26 ---
Lonely Mountain Region Guide
26
Dwalin the Warrior
Like his older brother Balin, Dwalin is renowned amongst 
the Dwarves, though his reputation is far darker than his 
brother’s, for he is skilful and utterly ruthless in battle. 
Dwalin was perhaps Thorin Oakenshield’s staunchest 
supporter in the Quest for Erebor, and even now he 
mistrusts Elves and Men, remembering Thranduil’s 
dungeons and their eagerness to make war on the rightful 
King under the Mountain. 
He is outspoken and fearless, even towards his king, and 
these qualities have earned him Dáin’s respect and his 
adoption as the informal head of the Stone Guard. 
Surprisingly tall for one of his race, Dwalin stands a head 
above most Dwarves and is half again as wide as many 
men. His beard is a dark-blue, and he thrusts the braided 
end through his belt, so as not to get in his way in battle. 
Dwalin is quick to take offence and slow to trust, but he 
never forgets his friends, along with his (many) foes. 
Dwalin
Medium Dwarf
STR 
17 (+3)
DEX 
10 (+0)
CON 
20 (+5)
INT 
11 (+0)
WIS 
12 (+1)
CHA 
14 (+2)
Armour Class 17 (Dwarf-wrought Hauberk)
Hit Points 104 (11d8+55)
Speed 25 ft
Skills Intimidation +5, Perception +4
Senses passive Perception 14, night vision
Languages Khuzdûl, Westron
Challenge 7 (2,900 XP)
Leadership. As a bonus action, Dwalin can command a 
nearby Dwarf other than himself to act. That Dwarf takes 
its turn immediately after Dwalin.
Old Hatred. When Dwalin is fighting Orc-kind with a 
melee weapon, he can re-roll his weapon’s damage die 
and use either total.
Unyielding (Recharge 5-6). Dwalin can use his bonus 
action to gain 10 temporary hit points.
Actions
Multiattack. Dwalin makes three attacks with his great 
axe.
Great Axe. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 9 (1d12+3) slashing damage
Ori the Scribe
Ori is a scribe and artisan, more commonly found with a 
pen in hand than an axe or a stein of ale. Since the Battle 
of Five Armies, Ori has devoted himself to the studies of 
the lore of his people, collecting scrolls and tables from 
across Middle-earth in the hopes of recovering more of 
the Dwarves’ lost treasures. He frequents the Chamber 
of Mazarbul under Erebor and has become a valued 
confidant of Munin, the Keeper of Records. 
Ori is a slender Dwarf, with a modest brown beard and 
ink-stained hands. He is fairly bookish and somewhat 
reserved, though great passion arises within him when 
discussing the lost glories of the past and those that may 
yet be recovered. 
Heroes who uncovered old artefacts of any sort, though 
especially Dwarven ones, will find that Ori can identify 
them and their potential properties as if he were a Lore-
master (see page 23 of Rivendell Region Guide). Ori 
sometimes has uses for courageous adventurers willing to 
explore old ruins. He already has several expeditions into 
the Grey Mountains planned for the right company. 
Motivation: If you seek glory and treasure, go elsewhere. 
I seek for that which was lost and knowledge is more than 
worth its weight in gold.

--- PAGE 27 ---
27
Expectations: +1 if the Company brings Ori any new lore 
or history; -4 if they seem only interested in weapons and 
armour — it is the scholar’s hope that the Enemy might be 
defeated by knowledge since he is unconquerable by force 
of arms.
Customisation: Add History +5 and Lore +5 to the 
Dwarf-Lord’s skills.
Nori the Toy-maker
Hailing from the Blue Mountains, Nori joined Thorin on 
his quest to Erebor in part because he had fallen on the 
wrong side of the law and decided it was no longer wise 
to remain amongst his folk there. Nori joined his brothers 
Dori and Ori on the quest without asking too many 
questions, a decision that he sometimes came to regret. A 
spirited Dwarf, with a love of fine food and pipeweed that 
made him singularly appreciate the companionship of a 
Hobbit on the quest, Nori proved his worth many times 
over in the Wild. 
Although he considered giving in to wanderlust after the 
Battle of Five Armies and leaving the Lonely Mountain 
with his share of the treasure, his brothers persuaded him 
to stay and try to make something of himself. To Nori’s 
great surprise, he found that he is a highly skilled toy-
maker, though he loves the delight on children’s faces 
when they play with his creations far more than the work 
that goes into making them. 
Nori is a stout Dwarf who is far quicker on his feet than 
most would believe from his girth. He favours purple hoods 
and frequently smokes from a beautifully engraved long-
stemmed pipe, with which he gestures when talking. Nori 
is a regular seller at the Toy-market of Dale every month, 
and many Barding children know him on sight. Many of 
his toys are quite clever, with secret compartments and 
hidden properties. 
Motivation: I take delight in the joy of others and my past 
is like a rushing river — those times are beyond me now.
Expectations: +2 if the heroes share in Nori’s delight for 
clever workings and hidden things; -4 if they somehow 
remind him of his illicit past.
Customisation: Increase the Dwarf-Lord’s Dexterity to 
17 (+3) and add Sleight of Hand +6 to his skills.
Things to do while in Erebor
Under King Dáin’s stewardship, Erebor has grown into a 
bustling centre of trade in Wilderland, and a haven for all 
Dwarves. Though it is a heavily fortified stronghold and a 
busy mine, it is also a thriving city, and there is much to 
see and do within, for those permitted to enter. 
Staying in Erebor
Erebor is the greatest stronghold of Durin’s folk left in the 
world, but it is not necessarily always a “safe place”. There 
are treasures in Erebor that the Dragon caressed for long 
The Kingdom Under the Mountain

--- PAGE 28 ---
Lonely Mountain Region Guide
28
years, cracks deep beneath the Lonely Mountain that lead 
to uncertain ends and caverns where traces of corruption 
still linger. 
Effects on Shadow
The treasures of Erebor are tempting for even the most 
pure-hearted of souls. Any companion with the Dragon-
sickness Shadow Weakness who spends a Fellowship 
phase in Erebor must make a Corruption check (DC 15 
Wisdom saving throw). Only if the hero rolls a natural 
1 on the Corruption check do they gain a Shadow point.
Dwarven companions who choose the Heal Corruption 
undertaking while staying in Erebor may make up to two 
rolls and use any tool proficiency on the checks. 
New Fellowship Phase Undertakings
These undertakings can be chosen by companions 
spending a Fellowship phase in Erebor. 
Visit Thorin’s Tomb
They buried Thorin deep beneath the Mountain, and Bard 
laid the Arkenstone upon his breast. 
Any hero visiting Erebor might wish to pay a tribute to 
Thorin Oakenshield, the fallen hero of the Battle of Five 
Armies. Many among those who live in Wilderland today 
owe their freedom to him, not only those belonging to 
the folk of Durin. But his last actions tell of a tormented 
soul consumed by the Dragon-sickness, who finally 
made peace with himself and his friends looking for, and 
finding, a heroic death. Visitors wishing to see Thorin’s 
final resting place are led through the Great Hall of 
Thráin, where Smaug once dwelt on his bed of gold, and 
thence to the side-chamber that houses the Dwarf lord’s 
magnificent tomb, adorned with the Arkenstone itself 
and the Elven blade of his sword Orcrist. 
In the following Adventuring phase, you can spend 
Inspiration and remember Thorin’s noble death. You 
recover a number of Hit Dice equal to half your Proficiency 
Bonus, rounded up.
Pay Homage to the Ravens of Ravenhill 
(Bardings and Dwarves Only)
"I knew many among the ravens of the rocks when I was a 
dwarf-lad." 
The ravens of the Lonely Mountain are a breed apart from 
normal birds of Middle-earth. Of great intelligence and 
longevity, the ravens have long held strong ties with the 
Dwarves, serving as messengers, spies and scouts. These 
great birds know much that happens throughout the 
North, if their trust can be gained. 
Dwarven and Barding heroes spending a Fellowship phase 
in Erebor or Dale may choose this undertaking and spend 
some time with the birds of Ravenhill. By showing due 
deference to the magnificent birds there, they may gain 
the friendship of a raven, or, if they are Dwarves already 
possessing the Ravens of the Mountains Virtue, they may 
reinforce their existing bond. 
Choosing this undertaking gains a hero the opportunity 
to summon a raven as per the Ravens of the Mountain 
Virtue (see Player’s Guide, page 106) during the following 
Adventuring phase, and ask it to perform an errand. After 
it completes the errand, the raven will return home and 
not be available again, so select your request wisely. 
Dwarves already possessing the Ravens of the Mountains 
Virtue may ask their raven friend to join the Company for 
the length of the following Adventuring phase instead. 
When the Dwarf companion is fighting, the raven may be 
sent to harass one foe, causing it to have Disadvantage on 
attack rolls for the duration of the battle.

--- PAGE 29 ---
29
TREASURE OF
- THE DWARVES -
On silver necklaces they strung
The flowering stars, on crowns they hung
The Dragon-fire, in twisted wire
They meshed the light of moon and sun.
The Dwarves toil ceaselessly to bring forth wonders from 
their halls of stone, yet with each passing age they and 
their works have diminished. The Dwarves have always 
believed that crafting knowledge should be held close, to 
be revealed only when earned by a worthy apprentice. 
Thus, with every master who dies without passing down 
their secrets, another bit of lore is lost forever. 
Over the ages the Dwarves have lost many master 
craftsmen. The destruction that heralded the end of the 
First Age drowned the great Dwarven cities of Belegost 
and Nogrod, slaying many. What few survivors there were 
fled to Khazad-dûm, but then they delved too deep and 
that ancient home of the Dwarves was abandoned too. 
A few centuries later, the Dragons of the Withered Heath 
descended upon the Dwarf-holds of the Grey Mountains 
bringing ruin, but none so much as Smaug the Golden 
when he burnt Erebor. Finally, apprentices and masters 
beyond count died at the Battle of Azanulbizar, the 
knowledge they held irreplaceable. 
But not all is lost. In the Twilight Years of the Third Age, 
the Dwarves can still forge good armour and keen swords 
– even though the ancient secrets of metalwork that they 
once knew have been forgotten. And in dark places under 
the earth much treasure waits to be discovered by those 
who dare brave the darkness.
Dwarven Craftsmanship
The Loremaster’s Guide contains rules for creating 
magical treasure, specifically Legendary Weapons and 
Armour, which is further expanded in the Rivendell 
Region Guide. Following those rules, when the Loremaster 
endeavours to create an ancient sword or suit of armour 
of extraordinary quality for the players to find, the origin 
of its craftsmanship must first be determined (see page 
133 of the Loremaster’s Guide). 
If the item is to be of Dwarven craftsmanship, then the 
Loremaster may add an additional level of detail, choosing 
exactly from which Dwarven mansion the artefact came 
from, picking one among Nogrod, Belegost, Khazad-dûm 
or Erebor.
Nogrod and Belegost
In the First Age, Nogrod and Belegost were magnificent 
Dwarf-holds, dug under the peaks of Ered Luin. They were 
destroyed when Beleriand was broken, and their folk 
scattered in exile. But the work devised by the Dwarves in 
their forges still lies in ancient hoards, or in the hands of 
great heroes. 
Legends hold that the smiths of Belegost first devised the 
making of mail of linked rings, and that their cunning 
handiwork produced hauberks that were both beautiful 
and impervious to fire, and masked helms wrought in 
hideous shapes to daunt their foes. But in the forging of 
arms none among the craftsmen of Dwarf kind surpassed 
those of Nogrod, and no one was more renowned than 
Telchar, the maker of Narsil, the sword of Elendil the Tall.
•	
In game terms, mail armour and headpieces from 
Belegost should have a full complement of three 
Enchanted Qualities, including the new Quality 
Fireproof. Moreover, headpieces forged in Belegost 
can have the Gleam of Terror Quality (normally 
attributed only to close combat weapons, see page 
136 of the Loremaster’s Guide).
•	
Likewise, weapons forged in Nogrod should have 
three Qualities, including the new Quality Fierce. 
Khazad-dûm
It was in Khazad-dûm that many skilled Dwarves found 
refuge after the ruin of Beleriand. There the folk of Durin 
discovered true-silver, the precious metal that the Elves 
call Mithril. Stronger than tempered steel, but amazingly 
light and easy to work with, the bright silver metal 
allowed the smiths of Khazad-dûm to create true works 
of wonder. 
Treasure of the Dwarves

--- PAGE 30 ---
Lonely Mountain Region Guide
30
•	
Legendary Weapons and Armour from Khazad-dûm 
should have at least two Qualities, and can have a 
third Quality. Only two Qualities at maximum can 
be Ancient or Superior (e.g. Ancient Cunning Make, 
Superior Fell, etc.).
Khazad-dûm and Eregion
During the Second Age, the Dwarves of Khazad 
dûm became great friends with the Elves of Eregion. 
Such a friendship between those two peoples had never 
existed before and has not since. No small number of 
Khazad-dûm’s great works incorporated the skills of 
both the Dwarves and the Elves. 
An item crafted in Khazad-dûm may incorporate 
the benefits coming from both Dwarven and Elven 
craftsmanship. 
For example, a weapon could be a Bane for Orcs with 
the Enchanted Quality Luminescence, yet also burn 
with the Dwarven Flame of Hope. 
Finally, a number of Legendary Weapons and 
Armour forged in Khazad-dûm may also have a 
Blessing, a quality normally found only in Wondrous 
Artefacts. In such a case, a single Blessing counts as 
an Enchanted Quality. Such items generally have one 
of the following Blessings: Athletics, Intimidation, 
Perception or Stealth. 
Erebor
Before the coming of the Dragon, the Dwarves of the 
Lonely Mountain still excelled at making sharp blades 
and sturdy mail, but their cunning was not comparable to 
that possessed by their forefathers in the First or Second 
Age. This notwithstanding, their wealth was known and 
envied throughout Middle-earth… which may have been 
what brought Smaug’s wrath upon them. 
•	
Legendary Weapons and Armour from Erebor may 
have up to three Enchanted Qualities, but only one of 
them may be either Ancient or Superior.
New Enchanted Qualities
The following Enchanted Qualities can be assigned 
to Legendary Weapons and Armour of Dwarven 
craftsmanship.
Fierce
Craftsmanship: Dwarven (Nogrod)
Item: Close combat weapon
The Dwarves of Nogrod could forge blades and spear 
heads so sharp that they could penetrate the toughest of 
armour, and were feared even by the mightiest servants of 
the Enemy. 
When you miss on an attack roll with a weapon with this 
Enchanted Quality, as long as you did not roll a natural 
1, you still deal 1 point of the appropriate damage type to 
the target as the tip of your weapon cuts into its armour.
Fireproof
Craftsmanship: Dwarven (Belegost) 
Item: Armour, Helm 
The Dwarves of Belegost were said to be able to withstand 
fire more hardily than any of their kind. This was partly 
due to their ability in fashioning armour that was almost 
impervious to heat and flame. 
While wearing armour with this Enchanted Quality, you 
gain resistance to fire damage, including Dragon-flame.
Masterpiece
Craftsmanship: Dwarven 
Item: Any 
An object possessing this Quality is obviously the work 
of an ancient master Dwarf-smith who wrought it in the 
deeps of time. Maybe Telchar of Nogrod himself made it, 
or even his old master. Blessed by a surpassing beauty, it 
never rusts, and shines as if burnished anew even when 
left unattended for centuries. 
In any Audience, the bearer of this armour may make 
an Introduction Check with Advantage. If meeting with 
Dwarves, both the Introduction Check and the Final 
Audience Check are made with Advantage.

--- PAGE 31 ---
31
Runes of Resilience
Craftsmanship: Dwarven 
Item: Armour, Helm 
This particular set of armour is engraved with runes of 
protective magic that assist the wearer in recovery. 
While wearing armour with this Enchanted Quality, you 
have Advantage on death saving throws.
Venomed
Craftsmanship: Dwarven 
Item: Close combat weapon 
Old legends preserved in the chamber of records in Erebor 
and whispered among the Northmen tell how Dwarves of 
Eastern mansions came under the Shadow and turned to 
evil. No one is alive today who could confirm such tales, 
but in treasure-hoards it is still possible to find instruments 
of war of Dwarven craftsmanship, marked with baleful 
runes that no smith of Durin’s folk would confess to know; 
engravings capable to make a foe sick. 
When you are using a weapon bestowed with this Quality 
and you inflict damage on an adversary for the first 
time, your foe is considered to be Poisoned for a number 
of rounds equal to your Shadow rating (minimum of 1 
round). Using this weapon against those who do not serve 
the Enemy directly (for example, against misguided Men 
or beasts who are defending their home or young) is a 
Misdeed worthy of Shadow points.
Famous Dwarven 
Weapons and Armour
The following section contains a number of famous 
weapons and armour made by the Dwarves in ages 
past. You may wish to incorporate these items into your 
Magical Treasure Index (see Rivendell Region Guide, page 
97) if appropriate.
Agarial 
Type: Short sword 
Craftsmanship: Dwarven (Nogrod) 
Qualities: 1. Masterpiece 2. Fierce 3. Superior Fell 
Notes: A blade thought lost forever at the end of the First 
Age and forged as part of a set of similar weapons by 
Telchar himself, Agarial is akin to the blade used by Beren 
to steal the Great Jewel from the Iron Crown of Morgoth. 
Though it is an instrument of death, Agarial is a thing 
of surpassing beauty, a work of skill without peer in the 
world today. 
The Black Axe of Beleriand 
Type: Great Axe 
Craftsmanship: Dwarven (Nogrod) 
Qualities: 1. Grievous 2. Superior Keen 3. Venomed 
Notes: A dangerous blade whose tragic history is one 
of great deeds and terrible sorrow, the Black Axe was 
wielded by many chieftains of the Edain in the First Age. 
The Shield of Anar (Rhingalad) 
Type: Shield 
Craftsmanship: Dwarven (Khazad-dûm) 
Qualities: 1. Cunning Make 2. Superior Reinforced 
3. Blessing: Inspire 
Notes: A sturdy shield forged from iron and embossed 
with gleaming ithildin runes, the Shield of Anar burns 
with a cold light which, in the hands of the right hero, 
hardens resolve and lifts the hearts of others, driving 
them on to valiant deeds. Called Rhingalad by the Elves 
and still sung of in song, it disappeared during the fall of 
Eregion. At the time its bearer, Anar the True, gave his life 
so that the last children of Hollin could flee safely with 
Elrond of Rivendell. 
Treasure of the Dwarves

--- PAGE 32 ---
Lonely Mountain Region Guide
32
War-mask of Belegost 
Type: Helm 
Craftsmanship: Dwarven (Belegost) 
Qualities: 1. Runes of Resilience 2. Gleam of Terror 
3. Fireproof 
Notes: A headpiece worn by a legendary Dwarf-lord, this 
helm incorporates a full faceplate intricately engraved to 
look hideous and grotesque, revealing only a glint of its 
wearer’s eyes when worn. The helm has what appears to 
be scorch marks covering it that neither craft nor magic 
can remove, yet it is otherwise unmarred. 
Angrenithil 
Type: Long Sword 
Craftsmanship: Dwarven (Khazad-dûm) 
Banes: Orc-kind 
Qualities: 1. Grievous 2. Foe-slaying 3. Superior Fell 
Notes: Forged in the final century before the fall of Eregion, 
Angrenithil is made of shining steel and Mithril, though 
this is only evident by moon or starlight when the blade’s 
runes glow in the dark. Forged in friendship between a 
great Dwarven and Elven smith, bound with their mutual 
hatred of their chief foes, the blade is truly perilous to 
Orcs. Though Angrenithil is long lost, the Goblins of the 
Misty Mountains fear it still. In their rough tongue they 
name it “moon shanker” and they curse it, along with 
anyone who may bear it. 
Drake-bane 
Type: Spear 
Craftsmanship: Dwarven (Erebor) 
Banes: n/a 
Qualities: 1. Grievous 2. Superior Keen 
Notes: When Dwarves forge arms for their own use, 
they generally prefer to craft weapons other than spears. 
But during their struggle with the Dragons in the Grey 
Mountains, they found it prudent to not always draw 
close to their scaled foes. This is but one of a number of 
spears that was forged with similarly optimistic names.

--- PAGE 33 ---
33
Dwarven Smithing
"They spoke most of gold and silver and jewels and the 
making of things by smith-craft"
While the ancient secrets of metalwork are lost to the 
Dwarves, even in the twilight years of the Third Age 
a master smith can still manage to forge something 
wondrous, though it will take years to find the right 
materials and a lifetime’s worth of skill to succeed. 
A determined smith can attempt to create a new weapon 
or piece of defensive gear blessed with one Enchanted 
Quality (see Loremaster’s Guide, page 130). To do so, the 
hero must choose the Dwarven-smithing Fellowship phase 
undertaking described below over the course of several 
years. During this time, the Dwarf will work the forge or 
spend time searching for great materials, metals and tools 
that may expedite the accomplishment of the task.
•	
A Dwarven smith can only enchant one item in his 
lifetime – the work of long years and the draining act of 
exerting all their prowess cannot be readily repeated. 
New Fellowship Phase Undertaking: 
Dwarven-Smithing
A Dwarf hero with a Proficiency Bonus of +4 or more can 
return home during a Fellowship phase and spend the cold 
season in the forges to attempt a great work. To succeed, 
the Dwarven-smith must accumulate 9 Craftsmanship 
points.
To gain Craftsmanship points during a Fellowship phase 
the smith may make a Strength check, spend Hit Dice, gain 
Shadow points, or a combination of the three.
•	
Make a DC 20 Strength (Smith’s Tools) check. 
Gain 1 Craftsmanship point on a success, 2 points if 
you succeed by 5 or more, or 3 points if you succeed 
with a natural 20 result. If you use one or more great 
materials in your undertaking (see below), you can 
reduce the difficulty of this check.
•	
You gain 1 Craftsmanship point for each 2 Hit Dice 
you choose to spend. You begin the next Adventuring 
phase with these Hit Dice already expended.
•	
Finally, the smith may acquire Craftsmanship points 
by gaining permanent Shadow, at the cost of 1 
point of permanent Shadow for each Craftsmanship 
point gained. The first time a smith chooses to gain 
permanent Shadow for Craftsmanship points, the 
hero becomes driven, and will think of little else 
but finishing the task. From that moment on, the 
companion must always choose Dwarven-smithing 
as an undertaking for each Fellowship phase. If the 
Loremaster allows two undertakings for an especially 
long Fellowship phase, one of them must be spent on 
Dwarven-smithing. If the Company takes a Fellowship 
phase in a place ill-suited for smithy-work then the 
driven companion cannot take an undertaking and 
instead gains 1 point of temporary Shadow from 
frustration. A driven smith gains Advantage on their 
checks to earn Craftsmanship points but gains a point 
of temporary Shadow on a failed check.
If a driven smith rolls a natural 20 on a Craftsmanship 
check, they are no longer driven. Furthermore, the 
companion can either add a +1 magical modifier to the 
item or a Blessing as if was a Wondrous Artefact (see page 
127 of the Loremaster’s Guide).
When the Dwarven smith finally accumulates their ninth 
Craftsmanship point, the masterwork is complete. The 
smith chooses one of the following Enchanted Qualities 
to add to the newly-forged artefact (and he won’t be able 
to choose the Dwarven-smithing undertaking ever again): 
Cleaving, Close-fitting, Crushing, Cunning Make, Fell, 
Fierce, Flame of Hope, Gleam of Terror, Keen, Reinforced, 
Rune-scored Shield, Runes of Protection, Runes of 
Resilience, Runes of Victory, Smiting.
Treasure of the Dwarves

--- PAGE 34 ---
Lonely Mountain Region Guide
34
Great Materials
The following list includes precious ores and tools that 
may greatly help a master smith in accomplishing 
their great work. Each item available lowers the 
difficulty by 1 to a minimum of DC 17.
A hero choosing the Dwarven-smithing undertaking 
may forfeit the opportunity to earn Craftsmanship 
points and instead gather one great material from 
those listed below. No check is required, but each item 
may only be chosen once. 
•	
Unwrought Moria-silver (mithril).
•	
A set of ancient smithing tools from Eregion.
•	
Fireheart gems from the lost Fireheart Mine in 
the Grey Mountains (see page 68). 
Alternatively, the Loremaster may allow the hero to 
come by the required materials while adventuring.
But my armour is made of mithril! 
Loremasters may note that while a Dwarven-smith 
can forge a suit of armour using Mithril as a great 
material, they cannot give it the Mithril Armour 
Quality. This is intentional. Mithril armour of 
old had near-impossibly fine chain links the likes of 
which cannot be forged in the Third Age. Alas for the 
withering of the world. 
Extended Example of Dwarven-smithing
Svior the Stout sets out to make a mighty axe that 
honours his ancestors. Svior is a master craftsman, with a 
Proficiency Bonus of +4, so he has the expertise to succeed. 
He found some unwrought mithril while adventuring in 
Wilderland, but to be sure he spends the first smithing 
Fellowship phase gathering a set of ancient tools from 
Eregion. On the following Fellowship phase he chooses the 
Dwarf-smithing undertaking again and enters the forge. 
The DC for his Strength check is 18 (Base DC 20, -2 for two 
types of great materials).
He rolls a 19 on his check (10 on the d20, +5 for his Strength 
modifier, +4 for his Proficiency Bonus for his smith’s 
tools) and gains 1 Craftsmanship point. Additionally, 
Svior spends 4 Hit Dice and chooses to gain 1 point of 
permanent Shadow. This raises his total Craftsmanship 
points earned this undertaking to 4 but also means he is 
now driven and bent on finishing his great work with all 
his strength.
Unfortunately, the Company elects to take their next 
Fellowship phase at the Eyrie of the Great Eagles. Denied 
the opportunity to work on his axe, Svior fumes and gains 
a point of temporary Shadow instead. He cannot take a 
different undertaking and thus cannot benefit from being 
at the Eyrie.
The following Fellowship phase, Svior must yet again 
choose the Dwarven-smithing undertaking. He now has 
Advantage on his Strength (Smith’s Tools) check and scores 
a natural 20! In addition to gaining 3 Craftsmanship 
points, he can choose to add a +1 bonus to the weapon 
or a Blessing. The Loremaster agrees to the bonus, so that 
in addition to whatever Quality he applies it will also be a 
Magical Weapon +1.
Svior doesn’t want to spend Hit Dice or gain more 
permanent Shadow at this time, so he has earned a total 
of 7 Craftsmanship points. He is no longer driven so he 
will not have Advantage on the next check.
Before his fifth time undertaking Dwarven-smithing, Svior 
has reached 13th level and now has a +5 Proficiency 
Bonus. He rolls a 8, meaning he’s just hit his DC of 18 
with his modifiers. He’s now at 8 Craftsmanship points! 
Will he spend Hit Dice or gain another point of permanent 
Shadow to finish what he started? Or will he wait another 
Fellowship phase?

--- PAGE 35 ---
35
- DALE -
”There lies all that is left of Dale,” said Balin. 
“The mountain’s sides were green with woods 
and all the sheltered valley rich and pleasant in 
the days when the bells rang in that town.”
Travellers heading north from the Long Lake along the 
western bank of the River Running will find their feet 
upon an old road called the Merchants Way. Before 
them, grey and jagged, rises a single broad peak, 
dominating the landscape: the Lonely Mountain. Soon, 
the Long Marshes’ boggy ground gives way and the road 
becomes surrounded by lush fields, tilled to the horizon, 
overflowing with grains here, a small orchard over there. 
To the west, they can see the dark edge of Mirkwood forest, 
but it does not look so foreboding here, for they look upon 
the easternmost edge of the Elvenking’s Woodland Realm. 
After a day of the Lonely Mountain looming ever higher, 
a southern spur of the mountain arises before them, 
beckoning them forward. Beneath the great watchtower 
set upon the height known as Ravenhill, the Running River 
twists and turns away, to run in a wide loop about a valley 
encircled by two vast arms of the Mountain. The Merchants 
Way follows the river up into that valley, where a great city 
rises: the heart of the swiftest-growing nation in the North, 
the realm of the Dragon-slayer, a kingdom of Men built 
before the gates of a kingdom of Dwarves, forged from the 
broken ruins of the last realm to bear its name… Dale.
A History of Dale
While in the early years of King Bard’s rule Dale seems 
young and vibrant, the roots of the city are nearly 400 
years old.
The First Founding (2590-2770)
In the year 2590 of the Third Age, King Thrór relocated to 
Erebor from the Grey Mountains, bearing the Arkenstone 
back to the halls where it was first found. Thrór’s father, 
Dáin I, had been slain before the doors of his own hall 
by a Cold-drake the previous year, and Thrór sought 
a new beginning for his people. He found it in the halls 
first carved by his ancestor, Thráin I. The Dwarves greatly 
extended the original mines beneath the mountain, 
discovering gold and jewels in abundance. Ever larger 
workshops and bigger halls were carved out of the rock, 
and Durin’s folk prospered. 
The riches beneath Erebor were many, but a Dwarf cannot 
eat stone, even if some legends may say otherwise. 
Fortunately, they were greatly aided in their endeavours 
Dale

--- PAGE 36 ---
Lonely Mountain Region Guide
36
by the fair-haired Northmen who lived south of the Lonely 
Mountain, along the Running River. The wealth of the King 
under the Mountain brought these Northmen into the 
valley before the gates of Erebor, where they eventually 
founded the city of Dale, becoming the main providers of 
food for the Dwarves in exchange for their work as skilled 
smiths and masons. 
Erebor and Dale flourished for nearly two centuries, the 
wealth of both realms celebrated in song. 
Of Dwarves and Men
The relationship between Dwarves and Men began 
so far back in time that no one among either folk 
remembers exactly how and when it all started. 
The Dwarves have never kept precise records of 
their dealings, and Men soon forget. There was a 
time, though, when such relationships were common 
throughout Wilderland and mutually profitable, 
especially between the Northmen of Rhovanion and 
the Longbeards. 
For the folk of Durin once considered the lands 
between the Misty Mountains and the Grey as 
their own, and the Men inhabiting the Vales of 
the Anduin and the eaves of Mirkwood were many. 
Wherever the Longbeards had a mansion, Men 
worked for them as shepherds, herdsmen and land-
tillers, and the Dwarves provided them with weapons 
and arms and other useful tools that their own poor 
metalworking could not produce without great cost 
and toil. Together, Dwarves and Men prospered, 
defending themselves from the ravages of Orcs and 
other enemies for many centuries, supported by bonds 
of mutual trust and friendship. 
When the great mansions of the Dwarves of old started 
falling, one by one, in their decline they brought 
down those colonies of Northmen that depended upon 
their trade with them. Dwarves and Men were both 
much diminished in Wilderland, with only Erebor 
and Dale (or the Iron Hills and Ironthorpe, see pg. 
72) surviving to recall the power both folks enjoyed 
in times long past.
The Coming of the Dragon (2770-2941)
In the year 2770, Thrór, old even by the standards of his 
long-lived folk, was still King under the Mountain. Many 
rulers had arisen and passed among the Northmen since 
the foundations of Dale, but in that fateful year, Girion 
was lord. From the north, driving the wind before him, 
came Smaug the Golden, greediest and most powerful 
of the Dragons in his day. In flames, the Great Worm 
laid waste to Dale. Girion fell defending his city, though 
his wife and young son escaped south along the river to 
Esgaroth. Smaug went into the halls of Erebor, slaying 
all who dared stand before him as he took the Lonely 
Mountain as his own. 
The Dwarves were utterly broken, scattering east and 
west. The Northmen soon deserted their homes, for 
Smaug had a wicked heart and a taste for maidens. 
Taking what little they had left, the folk of Dale fled their 
once great city to live diminished lives as poor fishermen 
and simple traders along the western banks of the Long 
Lake in Esgaroth, itself a mere shadow of its former glory. 
The predations of the Dragon destroyed the countryside 
for vast distances about the Mountain and the Lake-men 
rebuilt Esgaroth onto the Long Lake itself, reasoning the 
lake was the best defence they had against the Dragon’s 
fire. Though Smaug slept for greater and greater stretches 
of years at a time, the once-abundant valley of Dale, then 
the lands beyond were tainted by his foul presence and 
fell into ruin.
The Death of Smaug and The Rise of 
King Bard (2941-present)
With the events surrounding the coming of Thorin’s 
Company, Lake-town felt the Dragon’s wrath for the first 
time in many long years, but in thinking Men weak and 
himself invulnerable, Smaug was deceived. Bard the 
Bowman, descendant of the line of Girion, ended the 
Dragon in a single fateful shot, with a black arrow forged 
in Erebor of old. 
Bard was hailed as a hero by his people for his deed and 
his great courage, and some voices declared that he should 
be king. For his part, Bard did not claim dominion over 
the folk of Lake-town, acknowledging himself as merely a 
servant of Esgaroth’s Master. But in those dark days a fire 
was surely awoken within the Bowman. It was Bard who 
led the forces of Men at the Battle of Five Armies.

--- PAGE 37 ---
37
In the aftermath of the victory at that great battle, he was 
granted a fourteenth share of all the Dragon had stolen, 
in part due to his deed in slaying the Dragon, but also in 
keeping with his return of the Arkenstone of Thráin, and 
perhaps, the wisdom of the new King under the Mountain, 
Dáin. Bard dealt his wealth well, assisting the folk of Lake-
town survive through a hard winter, before seeking his own 
kingdom in Dale. In rebuilding Dale, Bard had a great deal 
of help from his new allies, for the Elvenking Thranduil 
joined King Dáin in offering their assistance in restoring 
Dale. For many years Dwarves, Elves and Men laboured 
to build Dale anew. Their task is not yet accomplished, 
for the heart of the Bowman harbours great ambitions. 
Nonetheless after long years of hard work, Bard assented 
to be crowned King. 
The Kingdom of Dale does not yet extend far beyond the 
city, but Bard dreams of a wider realm of Men stretching 
across the North. For now, Dale flourishes, with new farms 
founded, new fields tilled, and new constructions begun on 
a weekly basis. Lake-town remains a fiercely independent 
city, but even so, many of the folk of Esgaroth look to King 
Bard for guidance and leadership. Dale’s relationship with 
Erebor remains its strongest one, for just as of old, Dale has 
become the breadbasket of the Lonely Mountain and the 
markets of Dale are filled with the work of Durin’s folk.
The City of Dale
Dale lies directly before the gates of Erebor and the 
headwaters of the Running River, within a wide valley 
encircled by the great southern and south-eastern spurs of 
the Lonely Mountain. The mountain sides, long barren due 
to the Dragon’s influence, grow green again, though they 
lack the great trees they once bore. Due to the mountain’s 
Large towns like Dale (or their much larger cousins 
in the South) allow the Loremaster to present some 
additional challenges for a combat. Use the descriptions 
found in the sections below to determine the best scenery 
to deploy as needed.
Ditches: During a combat in the streets, drainage-works 
can easily catch the unwary. Whenever a creature crosses 
this terrain feature, they must make a DC 8 Dexterity 
saving throw or become Prone.
Doors: Most doors are made of wood, sometimes 
reinforced by metal strips (AC 15, 20 hp). An open door 
can provide three-quarters cover for someone ducking 
behind it, and a closed door blocks line of sight entirely.
Good Cheer: Heroes hunting a skulking assassin in the 
dark streets of a town can easily forget why they are 
risking life and limb. A sudden burst of song or laughter 
from a nearby tavern or inn can remind them that 
they protect the innocence of the common folk. Goodly 
creatures gain Inspiration.
Roofs: Thatched roofs are unlikely to support much 
weight, causing creatures to fall into the structure. Tiled 
or wooden shingled roofs often count as steep slopes, 
giving those higher up Advantage and lower combatants 
Disadvantage.
Tunnels: Larger townships might have complex sewer and 
drainage systems. Even the largest tunnels only allow one 
or two creatures to stand side-by-side, creatures wielding 
two-handed weapons have Disadvantage on attack rolls 
and only the foremost creature in an enemy group can be 
targeted by ranged weapons.
Walls: House walls are varied — sod (AC 10, 30 hp), 
wood (AC 15, 20 hp) or brick/stone (AC 17, 30 hp). 
A creature next to a wall can gain half-cover from it if 
their attacker does not have a clear line of sight.
Windows: Most have wooden shutters and some will 
have glass panes. A large open window between two 
combatants provides three-quarters cover while a smaller 
window offers full cover.
There are many other pieces of combat scenery that 
could be featured in a town combat: covered or open pits, 
foundations, lone trees, mud, rubble and statues to name 
a few.
Combat Scenery for Towns
Dale

--- PAGE 38 ---
Lonely Mountain Region Guide
38
ridges, Dale lies often in shadow. The sun rising over the 
south-eastern spur doesn’t directly touch Dale till mid 
morning, when the first rays reach the front gate of the 
Royal Palace and shade is cast again once the sun has 
passed into the west behind the southern spur. Dale is 
enclosed by a tall crenellated wall that encompasses 
more space than the town presently occupies, for it was 
built upon the foundations of the old fortification that 
encircled the ancient city. Along the north, all of the east, 
and part of the southern wall, the River Running flows, 
before heading south down to the Long Lake and beyond. 
Outside of the southern reaches of the wall stands a large 
complex of landings and quays where a constant stream 
of traffic comes and goes along the river.
Thanks to the joint efforts of hard-working Men, 
Dwarven masons and Elvish woodwrights, Dale is a 
wondrous city, a marvel of carved stone and flowing 
waters, where bustling activity never seems to cease. 
Older Dwarves who walked the streets of the original 
city declare that Dale is even more beautiful than ever it 
was in the old days. The Bardings are justifiably proud 
of what they have accomplished in building their fair 
city, but there is always a sense here that there is more 
to be done, more to be achieved. This spirit drives them 
and, in turn, affects much of the character of Dale. Here 
are some of the common elements of descriptions that the 
Loremaster may refer to when setting a game in the city 
of Dale. 
Water & Stone 
Dale is a stone city traversed by water, compared with 
Esgaroth, a wooden town built above a lake. It is filled 
with magnificent sculptures, beautiful fountains, quiet 
pools and deep waterways ferrying passengers and goods. 
The main roads of Dale are all paved with stones of various 
colours, from which the streets have taken their names. 
The dozens of bridges that reach across the watercourses 
in single, double or even triple arches, vary from narrow 
structures allowing people to cross in single file to wide 
passageways meant for the heavy traffic of carts and 
horses. More towers rise every year, the newer ones taller 
than those built the year before, in a race sponsored by the 
city’s affluent noblemen. Their bells can be heard ringing 
for miles around, calling the farmers to the market or the 
many workers of the city to their toil or rest. 
Hustle & Bustle 
Dale is seemingly in a near-constant state of activity and 
growth. Though the city has more or less been ‘restored’ 
and is certainly thriving, long-term endeavours, such as 
strengthening the fortifications and paving the roads, 
are still ongoing, with new undertakings beginning every 
month. Everywhere architects, apprentices, stonemasons 
and carpenters, along with all their varied tools and 
materials, can be seen at work. Additionally, Dale is 
home to many other busy craftsmen, from skilled smiths 
to cunning firework manufacturers. The clanging of 
metal and the report of small explosions resound along 
the cobblestones near the Ravensgate District. To 
this din are added the many sounds of commerce: coins 
tinkling, merchants calling and folk haggling in various 
tongues. A wide variety of markets are open throughout 
Dale during the day, with a few that are even open late at 
night, though traders are expected to adjust their shouts 
accordingly. Many folk regard resettling in Dale as a 
chance to begin their lives afresh, hopefully improving 
their lot, and offering their children a different life than 
one spent in hard toil on the edges of the Wild. The many 
immigrants flowing into Dale thus add to the commotion, 
a state of affairs that King Bard actively encourages in 
the earlier years of his reign. 
Many Folk, Many Lives 
Dale is rapidly becoming the largest Northman settlement 
in the area and for all but the most far-travelled folk it 
is the biggest town they will ever walk the streets of. It 
is certainly one of the most diverse cities in all of Middle 
earth, perhaps exceeded in this only by its neighbour, 
Lake-town; however, while Esgaroth was rebuilt as a 
city of Men, albeit an unusual one, Dale is as much a city 
of Dwarves as it is a city of Northmen. The Bardings 
have been heavily influenced by the folk of Erebor and 
it shows in their architecture. Nor are the Wood-Elves 
strangers to the streets of Dale.
Describing Dale

--- PAGE 39 ---
39
Dale

--- PAGE 40 ---
Lonely Mountain Region Guide
40
The Gates of Dale
The crenellated rampart surrounding Dale is an imposing 
fortification, standing as high as five men and thick 
enough that two horses could trot abreast along its top. 
For such was the majesty of the curtain wall of Dale of old, 
before Smaug burnt it and time ravaged it, a grandeur that 
King Bard wanted to revive, should another army of Orcs 
or worse dare to assail them again. 
The City Guard regularly patrol the city walls. The Guard 
send signals and receive answers from the Dwarf warriors 
stationed in the watchtower atop Ravenhill at every hour. 
From their vantage point on the side of the Mountain the 
Dwarves may see if enemies are approaching Dale long 
before anyone nestled in the city’s sheltered valley could 
(see page 18). 
Building the wall took several years and many hundreds 
of craftsmen toiled under the watchful eyes of Dwarven 
masons. It was completed in early 2945. The wall has 
but two openings along its great length: the south-facing 
Traders Gate and the north-west-facing Ravensgate. 
The gates are towering wooden doors, flanked by stone 
ramparts, and set with heavy iron hinges. 
Both gates are designed to open and close smoothly, 
with only a handful of guards needed to operate their 
mechanisms. In normal times, the Traders Gate rarely 
closes, even at night, but the Ravensgate is always barred 
not long after twilight. 
Anyone wishing to pass into or out of the city unnoticed 
must, in general, go over the wall. It will normally take 
a DC 13 Dexterity (Stealth) check to go over the wall 
unseen (waiting until night grants Advantage on this 
check) and a DC 15 Strength (Athletics) check to scale 
the wall. A failure on the first check will swiftly draw the 
attention of the City Guard, the second, a 25 ft fall.
The Merchants Way
The southbound road to Esgaroth was originally a worn-
over trail, long gone to green from disuse, and all but 
disappeared into the encroaching boggy ground of the 
northern Long Marshes. With the refounding of Dale, both 
King Bard and the Master of Lake-town soon recognised 
that traffic and commerce between the two towns would 
be greatly aided by a better road. Luckily, the road had 
tough bones, for it was laid by the Dwarves, as were the 
majority of roads traversing Wilderland; the way was 
easily refurbished and immediately filled with traders and 
travellers both. 
The Merchants Way falls under the authority of the crown 
of Dale, and the King’s men ride and patrol along it. A 
secondary road splits off from the Merchants Way as it 
enters the valley of Dale, right before it passes under the 
Traders Gate, to wind north-east to the Quays outside the 
city wall, along the Running River. 
The Merchants Way counts as a good road (very easy) 
for the purposes of travel between Dale and Lake-town, 
though heavy rains or other inclement weather can 
temporarily raise the terrain difficulty to easy or even 
moderate.
The Quays
East of the Traders Gate lie the city’s landings, through 
which flow the majority of the city’s imported and 
exported goods regularly flow through (the rest enter the 
city by land, from the Merchants Way). Wares from Lake- 
town, Mirkwood, and sometimes points on the map more 
distant still pass through here to the markets of Dale. 
In turn, numerous Dwarven products and the budding 
craftsmanship of the Bardings flow out from here. 
Long
     Lake
E Esgaroth
E Dale
E
Erebor
E
Elven King’s
Halls
The Waste
c
o
Upper Marches
n
Northern
Dalelands
Long Marshes
o
Mountains
                of  Mirkwood
u
Dale

--- PAGE 41 ---
41
Trade being one of the cornerstones of Dale’s prosperity, 
the various landings and moorings that make up the 
quays are well kept and a specially appointed official 
is charged with all business conducted upon them. This 
Reeve of the Quays and his men patrol here regularly 
during the day, as much to collect taxes as to settle any 
quarrels between merchants. However, the Quays are so 
very busy that wiser merchants look to the security of their 
own wares themselves, especially at night. 
The South Quay 
Typically, goods shipped to Dale that are destined to be 
sold in large quantities are brought in to the city. The 
wares are then stored in one of the many trading houses 
or warehouses of the Merchants Quarter. For a variety 
of reasons, a few merchants prefer to leave their goods 
upon their ships; some don’t have the funds required 
to rent storage in a warehouse in Dale, others intend to 
sell their entire cargo at once and do not wish to bother 
transporting it several times. Regardless of their motives, 
such merchants seek to berth their ships at the South 
Quay, the oldest and cheapest of the wharves of Dale. 
The South Quay still serves the same purpose now for 
which it was first built near four hundred years ago. 
Exactly who laid the stones of the landings have been 
lost to time, though Dwarves confidently swear it was 
clearly a master of their people. While the South Quay still 
bears the distinct scorch marks of Dragon-fire, it remains 
seamless and intact. Despite its storied history, its status 
as the cheapest mooring area of the city attracts many 
unsavoury fellows, who often skulk about the shadows, 
waiting for an opportunity to offer their services.
The Merchants Quarter
The 
Merchants 
Quarter 
is 
the 
fastest 
growing 
neighbourhood of the city. The Quarter starts at one end 
of Merchants Way, through the open doors of the Traders 
Gate. Deals are are struck and fortunes are made at all 
hours of the day and late into the night. The Merchants 
Quarter is perpetually filled with all manner of folk: 
farmers trading their goods, merchants from across 
Wilderland come to peddle their wares or acquire the 
same to sell elsewhere, buyers of every stripe looking to 
obtain the merchandise of the North’s busiest market or 
Dwarven forge work direct from Erebor, and travellers who 
have come to look upon the realm of the Dragon slayer. 
The Merchants Quarter contains several large warehouses 
for the many goods intended to be sold down the river in 
Lake-town, as well as a few buildings used to store raw 
materials coming into the city or ultimately intended for 
Erebor. There are also a fair number of drinking halls and 
taverns for the many passing travellers here, including 
one of the first new inns built in Dale, the Drunkenstone 
(see Wilderland Adventures, page 100). 
Strangers to Dale wishing to find the marketplace are 
directed to take the “River Road”, which is a street leading 
in a gentle curve to the Market Square in the northern 
portion of the quarter. The Blue Way is the not the proper 
street name, but since it weaves over and beside several 
waterways, along with the stones’ colour, the local 
nickname has stuck. 
The south-eastern portion of the Merchants Quarter 
is given over to the Farmers-market, a section of streets 
filled with goods and livestock from the many farms to 
the south and west of Dale. Within the Farmers-market is 
the Hunters Row, a series of stalls where fowl and game 
animals are to be had, along with butchers able to prepare 
meats as requested, to satisfy both their Barding and 
Dwarf customers. 
Merchants of Dale
The merchants of Dale generally fall into one of three 
categories: independent entrepreneurs looking to ply their 
wares and build their own personal fortunes; members 
of the older, established Guild of Merchants based out 
of Lake-town looking to expand their businesses; or 
representatives for others, such as shop-keeps who sell 
goods for Dwarven smiths that prefer their work at the 
forge to haggling on the street. Unlike the more reserved 
merchants of Esgaroth, merchants in Dale tend to be more 
outgoing to keep up with the pace of the city but otherwise 
have the same motivation and expectations as given on 
page 69 of the Loremaster’s Guide. 
Market Square
In many ways the heart of the city, the Market Square sits 
on the northern edge of the Merchants Quarter, nearly at 
the exact centre of Dale. When folks from afar speak of 
the “great market of Dale” they are usually referring to the 
Market Square. Paved with stones of every colour from the 
other streets of Dale, set in patterns to identify the rightful 
Dale

--- PAGE 42 ---
Lonely Mountain Region Guide
42
position of every seller in town, the Market Square would 
be a vast open area, if not for the massive profusion of 
stalls, pedlars’ carts, brightly coloured tents and wagons 
that regularly cover it. With new traders coming and 
going daily, the goods available at the market change 
constantly. Merchants, travellers, and locals come here 
in the hope of finding a fair trade, gaining a few coins 
and, sometimes, to see something they never imagined 
even existed in the world. 
The goods on offer in the Market Square can seem near 
endless. There are local goods from the nearby farms and 
the Northern Dalelands, including: seasonal fruit, fresh 
fish, game meats, fowl and robust wooden furniture. 
Traders from Esgaroth bring exotic woven cloths, 
outlandish pieces of jewellery from distant lands to the 
South, as well as stunningly crafted musical instruments 
from the Woodland Realm and hunting bows or tooled 
leathers and durable woodcraft from west of Mirkwood. 
Here the fabled wines of Dorwinion can sometimes be 
purchased, a drink so potent and sweet that it can render 
even the hardiest of Dwarves into a stupor. 
Occasionally, merchants arrive from even farther afield, 
travellers from the East bringing strange tales, exotic 
goods and wondrous spices, alongside road-weary 
Dwarves dressed in fine wools from the West, bringing 
pipe-weed and small kegs of fine beer from the Shire. 
Some stalls offer other goods of far stranger providence: 
talismans and charms, books of lore, potions and cure 
alls, powders and scrolls. All are claimed to have great 
virtues, though very few indeed are guaranteed to work 
in every case. 
Many folks come merely to sample the unusual culinary 
fare the market has to offer: candied apples and sugary 
figs, meat spiked on sticks, ales, Dwarven spirits potent 
enough to render an unwary man blind, mead from 
Thranduil’s halls, spiced fish, cups of hardy stew, soft 
bread and warm cider. 
Folks that come to the market seeking the work of the 
Dwarves of Erebor are soon directed to the northern end 
of Market Square, where a sturdy bridge passes over a 
narrow watercourse to a row of small shops. The stores 
here all have simple fronts, a few of the smallest have 
only a simple sign bearing nothing more than a single 
Craftsman’s Rune, the signature mark of the smith 
whose work the shop conducts exclusively. A number of 
warriors, both Dwarves and Bardings, patrol this strip of 
shops, for this is where the majority of the handicraft of 
Durin’s folk is sold in Dale. This is the place to purchase 
beautiful jewellery, including: sparkling jewels set upon 
slender chains, golden goblets inlaid with emeralds and 
silver bracelets ornamented with rubies. 
Beautiful treasures are not the only things offered for sale 
here. Swords and axes, well-made shields bound with 
thick iron and the finest mail that coin can secure; all 
can be bought here for a fair, but firm, price. Particularly 
well-off visitors can arrange here to commission specific 
pieces of work from the Dwarves. Depending on what a 
buyer is seeking, arrangements may be made to hire one 
of the smiths of Anvil Way (see page 44) or they may even 
be sent on to the Lonely Mountain itself if their order is 
particularly large. 
The Market Square is generally open every day of the 
week, from an hour past dawn till dusk. During the longer 
days of spring and summer the Market Square remains 
open until very late in the evening, to profit from the 
longer hours of twilight in the North. In winter, great 
lamps of brass and crystal are hung from poles about the 
marketplace to throw back the night on feast days, and a 
festival air reigns. 
There are many special events throughout the year, but 
for two days of the first week of every month, the Market 
Square is given over to a very special event indeed… 
The Toy-market of Dale
On the first Monday and Thursday of each month the 
Market Square is transformed, with many of the stalls 
given over to a whole new selection of market goods: 
the Toy-market. Once called the “Wonder of the North” 
– a title the folk of Dale and Erebor both seem intent on 
reclaiming, the Toy-market changes the Market Square 
into a wondrous playground that attracts merchants from 
across Wilderland and far beyond. 
Famed Dwarf artisans, many of whom seldom visit the 
marketplace in person, are on hand bearing their finest 
creations to compete with their fellow craftsmen and see 
the joy their work brings to children in person.

--- PAGE 43 ---
43
The toys for sale at the market change regularly with new 
creations appearing each month, while old favourites 
come and go. What is constant is that they are all made of 
intricately carved wood and metal, painstakingly crafted 
over weeks, months and, in some cases, even years. The 
greatest (and most expensive) are so cunningly wrought 
as to give the semblance of being magical: toy soldiers 
in the raiment of one of the Five Armies that will march 
upon command, barking mechanical dogs, tiny brass 
trumpets that emit strange calls when sounded and 
metal birds that sing sweet melodies, are just samples of 
the toys available. 
All the children of Dale, even the poorest, own at least one 
of the fabled toys that bear the mark of the city. There is 
a toy here to capture the heart of any child and a great 
many adults as well. 
During the Toy-market, on the eastern border of the Market 
Square not coincidentally set against a canal, can be found 
the stalls of the fire-workers; craftsmen who specialise in 
the dangerous art of making fireworks, a relatively recent 
profession encouraged by Gandalf the Grey. The fireworks 
sold here range from small whizz bangs to teeth-rattling 
thunder-claps with plenty of fire flowers and burning 
fountains as well. Particularly large or intricate fireworks 
may require a trip to Snapfire Alley on Red Row (see page 
50) though the fire-workers here will be happy to point an 
interested party in the right direction. 
The Missing Scale
On the southern side of the Market Square sits an 
impressively large oak and stone inn. The shingle out 
front features a golden-red pattern of Dragon-scales, 
with one at the centre conspicuously black. The Scale is 
The Lightly Fingered
As always happens where coins flow in abundance, pickpockets and cutpurses ply the stalls and the less-guarded shops 
of the Market Square on busy days. Skilled pilferers posing as beggars and paupers blend into the crowds as they 
deftly cut purse strings and pluck easily accessible pockets. 
If the companions spend an extended amount of time at the Market Square or any of Dale’s other markets, whether 
just shopping, perhaps keeping a watch over someone they suspect, or acting as guards for a merchant, the Loremaster 
should roll a d12. If a 1 is rolled, one of the companions has become the chosen target of a thief. The Loremaster rolls 
1d20+2d6 and compares that value to the passive Perception of the hero.
•	
If the thief has a result lower by 5 or more, then the player-hero knows they are being watched, but the thief 
remains unaware of their vigilance – allowing them to scare off the miscreant or catch the thief in the act if 
they so choose.
•	
If the thief’s roll is equal to the hero’s passive Perception or lower by 4 or less, the character spots the would-be 
thief watching them, but the companion’s scrutiny causes the pickpocket to disappear into the crowd. 
•	
If the thief’s roll is better than the hero’s passive Perception by 4 or less, the character has been robbed but it was 
something of lesser value (1d6 silver pennies or a small trinket).
•	
If the thief has result that is 5 or higher than the companion’s passive Perception, the thief has stolen something 
far more valuable: something sentimental to the character, a family ring, a small Precious Object, or similar 
(1d6 gold pieces in value or coin). If the loss means something to the character, then they will have to set out to 
recover it, most likely by first seeking amidst the shadows of the Old Quarter… (see page 49).
Note that the system above provides for a simplified bit of roguery. If a named character is stalking the Company it 
may be more appropriate to make actual skill checks instead.
Dale

--- PAGE 44 ---
Lonely Mountain Region Guide
44
one of the busiest inns in the city and while the handbills 
proclaim it has “rooms fit for a King” it is the peerless wine 
(and, perhaps, location) that gives the place its success. 
The inn’s enormous common room can seat almost fifty 
patrons at its plentiful tables or along the polished bar 
that runs the length of the west wall, yet it is the baleful 
image of a Dragon that dominates the space. Crafted from 
wrought iron and lit from behind with candles, the glowing 
image runs along the wall opposite the bar. The Innkeeper 
Drucbord is especially proud of its design, made by his 
brother in Lake-town. 
The flickering light of The Missing Scale has lit many a 
meeting, for it is frequented by all sorts of travellers to 
Dale, and the latest news from afar is often heard here 
even sooner than in the Royal Palace. 
Ravensgate District
The Ravensgate District is where the majority of well-to-
do and newly wealthy Bardings live in Dale. Many of the 
largest houses here were granted as gifts to the followers 
of the Dragon-slayer after the great victory at the Battle of 
Five Armies. Others belong to those made rich by trade 
or artistry. The district is constructed the closest to the 
Lonely Mountain, deep within the encircling mountain 
spurs, and it remains somewhat shadowed for a large 
portion of the day. 
Watchmen carrying Dwarven lamps of iron and crystal 
beat the streets from early in the evening to late at night, 
and are quick to ask any miscreant caught wandering the 
area after dark to move along. 
White Lane 
The longest street in the Ravensgate District starts near the 
city gate and winds its way around the eastern edge of the 
neighbourhood. Paved with white cobblestones and lined 
with tall, narrow houses, White Lane is where the craftsmen 
of Dale have their workshops and residences. Smiths 
of all types, fletchers, jewellery makers, glassblowers, 
leather workers, coopers and even a confectioner ply their 
trades here. Most renowned are the woodwrights, justly 
famed for their dependable furniture and their intricately 
engraved great bows. 
Goods are seldom for sale on White Lane, as most of the 
craftsmen either keep a stall at the Market Square or 
arrange for others to sell their goods elsewhere. A few of the 
artisans here are always interested in unusual materials 
that may help them create something sensational, in part 
because they wish to showcase their work against the 
more famed creations of the Dwarves. 
A Company seeking employment may be hired by one 
of the craftsmen here to escort them into the heart of 
Mirkwood to bring back a specific type of wood or for some 
other equally dangerous task in pursuit of advancing the 
art of their chosen trade. 
Anvil Way
Starting along the southern border of the Ravensgate 
District, north of the Royal Palace, and ending just east of 
the northern edge of the Market Square, runs a street like 
no other in Dale. Instead of paved with coloured stones, as 
are all of Dale’s other streets, it is set with smooth plates of 
granite, expertly laid to be almost seamless, and named 
for the many smiths who live along it. 
The ringing sound of hammer against anvil, the chipping 
of stone, the smell of burning coal, all carry to nearby 
shops at all hours of the day and occasionally late into

--- PAGE 45 ---
45
the night. For Anvil Way is the street where many of the 
Dwarves who have chosen not to live in Erebor make their 
homes and have their workshops. Clustered together in 
squat stone houses, these stout craftsmen forge iron 
and steel, shape stone, carve precious jewels and make 
wondrous toys. 
A great many of the smithies here have their forges set in 
open areas, so that all who come down the lane can see 
the Dwarves hard at work with hammer and tongs. The 
hiss of freshly forged iron plunged into buckets of water 
combines with the ringing of metal on metal and the 
tinkling of small tools at work to create a music akin to 
that which fills the halls of Erebor. 
While only a relative handful of Dwarves have chosen to 
live and work under the sky, they are all highly valued 
members of the community and treated as honoured 
guests in Dale. Their wares sell at a high premium, which 
the richest citizens of Dale and many a travelling merchant 
gladly pay, for the craftsmen of Anvil Way are as skilled as 
any artisan in the Lonely Mountain and, by all accounts, 
more approachable too.
Even so, it is difficult to get an appointment with the 
smiths here. The majority of their work is sold in small 
shops along the northern edge of the Market Square. 
Arrangements to consult with a smith generally need to 
be made in advance, through one of their agents there, 
mainly to stave off the otherwise continuous waves of 
Barding nobles and merchants who wish to apprentice 
their children with a Dwarven smith. 
Anvil Way Smith
The craftsmen of Anvil Way are widely reputed to be quite 
sociable for Dwarves, a notion that few folk who have met 
them entirely believe. In fact, they are far less taciturn 
than many of their folk. Indeed, in Dwarven circles, they 
are famed for their odd ways and strange ideas. Some of 
the craftsmen along Anvil Way are said to actually prefer 
to work under the open sky! The very idea… Still, none 
doubt their skill or the quality of their work. Their light-
hearted nature is well reflected in the many toy-makers 
who have built their workshops along Anvil Way. 
Motivation: To prove my worth as a creator despite my 
unusual choices in life.
Expectations: +3 if the heroes treat the smith with great 
deference (as if they called upon a master smith in Erebor 
itself); -2 if the companions are dismissive of the smith’s 
calling or expertise.
Anvil Way Smith
Medium Dwarf
STR 
17 (+3)
DEX 
13 (+1)
CON 
12 (+1)
INT 
13 (+1)
WIS 
12 (+1)
CHA 
15 (+2)
Armour Class 12 (Shop Leathers)
Hit Points 11 (2d8+2)
Speed 25 ft
Skills Perception +3, Persuasion +4, Smith’s Tools +5
Senses passive Perception 13, night vision
Languages Khuzdûl, Westron
Challenge 1/4 (50 XP)
Stubborn. During an Audience or other meeting, the 
Smith imposes Disadvantage on Charisma checks made 
by the heroes.
Actions
Hammer. Melee or Thrown Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, 
reach 5 ft or range 20/60 ft, one target. Hit: 5 (1d4+3) 
bludgeoning damage.
Royal Palace
Upon a low height near the centre of the city rises the 
royal residence of King Bard. A magnificent stone palace, 
the Royal Palace was built by Dwarven masons under the 
direction of the King under the Mountain. The building 
is a majestic, if somewhat daunting, sight, for it was 
constructed of dark polished stone quarried from the 
Lonely Mountain and it was built strong. The exterior is 
lined with a series of marble pillars, holding up a mighty 
vaulted roof. Before the massive, eastward facing front 
gates lies a magnificent fountain, which throws great 
arcs of water high into the air, where they crash above a 
sculpture of the Dragon, clearly representing the Fall of 
Smaug. 
Two great openings border the eastern front gate, carved 
in such a way as to catch the first rays of the sun as they 
cascade over the south-eastern spur of the Mountain. The 
upper sides of the hall are lined with small windows of 
frosted glass, set deep in to the stone, and fitted with clever 
shutters that can easily be opened or closed at the King’s 
Dale

--- PAGE 46 ---
Lonely Mountain Region Guide
46
whim. The palace’s interior resembles that of a Dwarven 
underground hall, a massive open space bordered with 
elegant stonework and high columns, lit by great glass 
lamps that hang from the distant ceiling, like so many 
small stars. Unlike in some of the more enclosed spaces 
within Erebor, though, cool breezes pass through the hall 
regularly. 
King Bard’s throne sits at the end of the open main hall, 
upon a raised dais. The carven wood throne is engraved 
with the full tale of the Black Arrow and was a gift from 
the Elvenking. The Dragon-slayer regularly holds court 
here, receiving dignitaries or dispensing justice as needed. 
Various Barding nobles and assorted functionaries come 
and go with great regularity, making the throne room a 
lively place. 
On warm summer days, King Bard finds it agreeable to 
hold court in the open air. Just to the south of the palace 
lies a great courtyard, lined with seats of wood and stone, 
surrounded by lush greenery. Minstrels, poets, jesters and 
actors all perform here at times for the amusement of the 
King and his court. 
Barding Courtiers
A few of the most powerful noble lords come from families 
who were well-off merchants in Lake-town, many of which 
descended from the old nobility of Dale. Far more inclined 
to eloquence and reasoned debate than their younger 
compatriots, they represent a power bloc within Dale that 
the King cannot ignore, for they have influence over trade 
and many merchants. Some are extremely loyal to Bard, 
grateful for his courage and the opportunities he has 
afforded them. Others, though, regard the King as merely 
an upstart warrior who made a “lucky shot” and look 
to undermine him when they can. Determining which is 
which can be very difficult indeed… 
Barding Nobles
Many of the nobles of Dale are the young men and 
women who stood with Bard at the Battle of Five Armies 
and followed him north when he announced that he 
would reclaim Dale. They form the majority of the King’s 
counsellors, assisting in the running of the court and city, 
or representing Dale as the King’s envoys abroad. While 
a few of them do come from the older noble lines directly 
descended from the aristocracy of Dale of old, few are used 
to the ‘politics’ that often play out in court manoeuvrings. 
They are, in the main, warriors more accustomed to 
action first and reasoned talk after. 
Courtier
Medium Human
STR 
13 (+1)
DEX 
11 (+0)
CON 
14 (+2)
INT 
17 (+3)
WIS 
14 (+2)
CHA 
19 (+4)
Armour Class 12 (Leather corslet)
Hit Points 32 (5d8+10)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Deception +6, Intimidation +6, Persuasion +8, 
Traditions +7
Senses passive Perception 12
Languages Westron
Challenge 1 (200 XP)
Confound. Courtiers are masters of turning an errant 
word into a deadly dagger to public opinion. In an 
Audience, the Courtier can force the spokesperson for 
the Company to make a DC 12 Charisma saving throw 
or gain Disadvantage on all further checks during the 
Audience.
Lord of His Domain. Courtiers only meet with 
adventurers in situations and places favorable to 
themselves. The Courtier imposes Disadvantage on the 
Introduction Check for an Audience.
Expert. Courtiers double their Proficiency Bonus for 
Persuasion and Traditions (included above).
Actions
Dagger. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 
5 ft or range 20/60 ft, one target. Hit: 3 (1d4+1) piercing 
damage.

--- PAGE 47 ---
47
Noble
Medium Human
STR 
17 (+3)
DEX 
13 (+1)
CON 
15 (+2)
INT 
13 (+1)
WIS 
12 (+1)
CHA 
17 (+3)
Armour Class 16 (Corslet of Mail, Swordmaster)
Hit Points 39 (6d8+12)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Athletics +5, Insight +3, Traditions +3
Senses passive Perception 11
Languages Westron
Challenge 2 (450 XP)
Call to Arms. If within Dale, the Noble can use his bonus 
action to summon 1d4+2 city guards (see page 48) which 
arrive at the end of his next turn.
Swordmaster. The Noble gains a +2 bonus to AC while 
wielding a broadsword or long sword (included above).
Actions
Long sword. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 7 (1d8+3) slashing damage or 8 (1d10+3) 
slashing damage when wielded with two hands.
Reactions
Counterattack (Recharge 5-6). If an attack roll misses 
the Noble, he can use his reaction to make an attack roll 
with Advantage. He must be wielding a melee weapon 
and able to see his attacker.
Royal Barracks
A solid gated keep just to the south of the Royal Palace, 
the Royal Barracks is home to the black-liveried Royal 
Archers, the elite bodyguards of the King, and a training 
ground for all the forces of Dale. The greatest fighters 
among King Bard’s followers regularly train the city’s 
youth here, hoping to instil some of their skills into the 
next generations. Elstan, the commander of the Royal 
Barracks and the First Captain of Dale (see page 53), 
will occasionally ask noteworthy adventurers to share 
some of their hard-won knowledge here, as will the King. 
Correspondingly, enough fighters of such great skill have 
taught here that even accomplished warriors have begun 
to occasionally visit in order to learn a few new tricks. 
In addition to various training rooms, the barracks’ walls 
encompass a long field where a handful of archers can 
always be found practising their skills. Many of the Royal 
Archers pride themselves on their crafting skills with 
their weapons and the sight of one or more black-liveried 
warriors fletching their own arrows is a common one 
here. 
Royal Archers of Dale
The Royal Company of Archers consists of fifty members, 
hand-picked from among the greatest warriors and 
hunters in the North, to serve as the personal bodyguard 
of King Bard, as well as reinforcing the City Guard as 
needed. No distinctions of rank or lineage are made in 
their selection: skill alone counts for all. 
Every warrior in the city dreams of joining the august ranks 
of the “Black Company”, as they are often called, due to 
their distinctive head-to-toe black livery. The Royal Archers 
have a (mostly) friendly rivalry with the Bowman’s Guild 
of Esgaroth and seek to best them at every opportunity. 
Royal Archer
Medium Human
STR 
13 (+1)
DEX 
19 (+4)
CON 
14 (+2)
INT 
10 (+0)
WIS 
12 (+1)
CHA 
11 (+0)
Armour Class 16 (black leather corslet)
Hit Points 58 (9d8+18)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Intimidation +2, Perception +3, Survival +3
Senses passive Perception 13
Languages Westron
Challenge 2 (450 XP)
Eagle-feathered Arrow (1/day). As a bonus action the 
Royal Archer draws this special arrow and attacks with 
her Great Bow. A successful hit causes a critical hit and 
any creature Medium size or smaller must make a DC 15 
Strength saving throw or become Prone.
Hawk’s Eye. The Royal Archer may use this ability as a 
bonus action. She does not suffer Disadvantage on attack 
rolls due to being at long range this turn.
Actions
Volley-storm (Recharge 5-6).  The Royal Archer can use 
her action to make a ranged attack against any number 
of creatures within 10 ft of a point she can see within her 
weapon’s range. She must have ammunition for each 
target, as normal, and she makes a separate attack roll 
for each target.
Great Bow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, range 
150/600 ft, one target. Hit: 8 (1d8+4) piercing damage.
Dale

--- PAGE 48 ---
Lonely Mountain Region Guide
48
Residential Quarter
Most of the common citizens of Dale live in the western 
Residential Quarter. During the first five years since 
the founding of the city, the neighbourhood saw simple 
houses with tall and thick stone walls sprout rapidly like 
mushrooms, one next to the other, leaving only narrow 
lanes to separate them. As the city’s wall stretches out to 
the west, there are still large portions of the quarter without 
buildings, and masons and workers are a common sight, 
as are the sounds of construction and the chipping of stone. 
The Commons
King Bard actively encourages the Free Folk who come 
to Dale seeking new lives to claim farms of their own by 
offering them land in the Upper Marches. Some, though, 
have no interest in farming and seek instead to become 
occupants of the city. 
Unwilling to turn anyone away, but acknowledging that 
it can take time to find one’s place or be able to secure 
accommodations, the King allows new citizens to pitch 
their tents in the southerly portion of the Residential 
Quarter, which has swiftly become known as “The 
Commons”. Immigrants to Dale of less means are thus 
given the time and opportunity to partake in the prosperity 
of the city in order to gather enough funds to eventually 
move into a house, take up the King’s offer of land or to 
decide to move on. 
The Commons is an ever-shifting maze of tents and 
temporary constructions, which the City Guard patrols 
frequently. All sorts of folk come and go here regularly and 
not all of them are necessarily friends to Dale… 
The Nest
In the south-east of the Residential Quarter, near the 
Market Square, sits the heavily reinforced keep of the City 
Guard of Dale. It is universally known as “the Nest” due to 
the heraldry that all the City Guard bear: the Sign of the 
Thrush. Here the City Guard regularly train, and from here 
set out to patrol the city. While there are smaller guard 
posts throughout Dale, none have anywhere near the size, 
nor the activity levels, of the Nest. 
Dale’s City Guard
Dale’s City Guard are actively trained to keep an eye out 
for trouble and to try to diffuse situations with words 
before resorting to violence. The few outsiders to Dale who 
mistake this reticence to come to blows as a weakness 
swiftly learn that many of the older guards and most 
of their commanders are veterans of the Battle of Five 
Armies. They typically patrol the city in squads of two 
to four, depending on the time of year and the size of the 
crowds. 
While they make their presence felt in a few places, 
especially at the docks and the city gates, they generally 
do their best to remain in the background until needed 
elsewhere. They are, however, swift to step in to break 
up violent arguments and stop any fights that might 
threaten commerce in the city. If hard pressed, they can 
easily call upon assistance from their fellows or even 
nearby Royal Archers with silver whistles that they wear 
about their necks. 
City Guard
Medium Human
STR 
15 (+2)
DEX 
12 (+1)
CON 
12 (+1)
INT 
11 (+0)
WIS 
13 (+1)
CHA 
10 (+0)
Armour Class 16 (corslet of mail, shield)
Hit Points 22 (4d8+4)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Investigation +2, Perception +3
Senses passive Perception 13
Languages Westron
Challenge 1/2 (100 XP)
Battle Brothers. If three or more guards are fighting 
the same enemy and that enemy has no allies engaged 
with the guards, the guards have Advantage on their 
attacks.
Silver Whistle. The guard can use his bonus reaction 
to summon help, which arrives at the end of his next 
turn. Roll 1d6: 1-4: that number of City Guards; 5: a 
Guard Commander; 6: a Royal Archer.
Actions
Long sword. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 6 (1d8+2) slashing damage or 7 (1d10+2) 
slashing damage if used with both hands.
Reactions
Tackle. When a creature moves out of the guard’s reach, 
he may use his reaction to make a grapple attack with 
Advantage.

--- PAGE 49 ---
49
Guard Commander
Medium Human
STR 
17 (+3)
DEX 
13 (+1)
CON 
15 (+2)
INT 
13 (+1)
WIS 
14 (+2)
CHA 
12 (+1)
Armour Class 20 (heavy mail, great shield)
Hit Points 52 (8d8+16)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Insight +4, Perception +4
Senses passive Perception 14
Languages Westron
Challenge 3 (700 XP)
Hard Eyed. The Commander is a veteran of many battles 
and scores a critical hit on rolls of 18, 19 or 20.
Shield-strike (Recharge 5-6). If the Commander deals 
damage with his longsword, he can use his bonus action 
to slam his great shield into the target. The creature takes 
4 points of bludgeoning damage and must make a DC 13 
Strength saving throw or become Prone.
Actions
Multiattack. The Commander makes two attacks with 
his longsword.
Longsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 7 (1d8+3) slashing damage or 8 (1d10+3) 
slashing damage if used with both hands.
The Water House
Consciously built in imitation of Esgaroth’s Hospital, King 
Bard was readily convinced by the Master of Lake-town 
and King Dáin’s counsels that a city as big as Dale would 
have need of a house of healing. 
The Water House was built alongside a flowing canal, 
with several small waterfalls, the gentle sounds of which 
are thought to aid in the healing of fevered minds. The 
healers and midwives of the Water House care for those 
who need it, tending to the old and sick, as well as the 
poor. Patients of more means are asked to contribute to 
the house’s coffers. The healers at the Water House have 
many herbalists in their ranks. 
Old Quarter
The eastern part of the city is referred to as the Old 
Quarter for, long ago, it was the heart of Dale before the 
coming of Smaug. The vast tracts of stone houses and 
shops that once made up Dale were reduced to piles of 
shattered masonry and melted rock by the Dragon. When 
King Bard and his followers first journeyed to Dale, they 
found carven stones of great beauty in the Old Quarter, 
wondrous enough even after two centuries of neglect that 
the stonemasons of Erebor were impressed, but all were 
crumbling and overgrown with vines and lichen. 
The broken stones of the Old Quarter proved to be useful 
in the re-building of Dale. Many old foundations were 
soon put to new uses by the clever masons of the Lonely 
Mountain. The once-famed fountains of old would never 
run again, but new ones were built even grander than 
before. The cunning aqueducts that fed the fountains were 
repaired and vast improvements were made, to route new 
channels throughout the city. 
The Old Quarter buildings are, in the main, a mixture 
of old stonework beautifully blended with new. The 
neighbourhood still has a somewhat dubious reputation, 
but many folk live and work here untroubled by the 
district’s past. 
Brokenstone
While many folk discredit it, there are some that believe 
restless spirits of those slain by Smaug haunt parts of 
the Old Quarter. When the howling winter winds sweep 
through the city, they say an “unnatural chill” lingers in 
the Old Quarter and fell cries can be heard on the wind. 
Many others hold that if there is any curse lingering in 
Staying at the Water House
Heroes that elect to visit this house of healing are able to take a long rest even if they are in the midst of an 
Adventuring phase. If they are able to stay a week then they can be cured of any of the following conditions: Blinded, 
Deafened, Frightened, Paralysed, Poisoned, Unconscious.Frequent visitors to the Water House, especially if they’re 
famous adventurers and treasure-seekers, will be asked to donate generously for its services.
Dale

--- PAGE 50 ---
Lonely Mountain Region Guide
50
the Old Quarter, it was brought there by some of its newer 
inhabitants. 
When King Bard first set about rebuilding Dale, a few of 
the bullies and snivelling servants of the old Master of 
Lake-town, hoping to find quick coin or easy prey among 
the vulnerable, joined in the early efforts. When their 
machinations fell flat, many faced exile or shame, but few 
were willing to brave the dangers of Wilderland and most 
knew they would receive no welcome back in Esgaroth. 
Helped by the surging new population, they did their 
best to melt into the shadows, which was easiest in the 
supposedly haunted remnants of the Old Quarter. 
Hard hearts and dark shadows can bear ill fruit. Even 
as the markets of Dale have once again become famous 
throughout Wilderland, so the black market of the Old 
Quarter, known as the Brokenstone, has achieved a 
dubious fame of its own. Strange and terrible things can 
be bought or learned in the dusk of the Brokenstone, which 
isn’t a specific place, so much as a series of older cracked 
courtyards and darkened taverns of ill repute clustered in 
the south of the Old Quarter. 
Many folk believe that the denizens of the Brokenstone 
have one or more tunnels for smuggling goods directly to 
and from the river, under the wall, though the City Guard 
haven’t been able to locate one. 
The folk of the Brokenstone are, in the main, either 
paupers or criminals. On dark nights, some are said to 
slip into the other neighbourhoods of the city to offer their 
dubious wares, or to seek out easy prey. Those that know 
of the Brokenstone suggest there may be some truth to the 
rumour that it is haunted, or submit that the Dragon may 
indeed have cursed the area; others firmly declare that 
the denizens of the Brokenstone are tormented far more 
by their own greed than any fictitious spirits of the dead. 
Snapfire Alley 
One of the major thoroughfares of the Old Quarter is the 
brick paved street called Red Row. It starts just north of 
the Farmers-market at the edge of the Merchants Quarter 
and runs in a grand curve along the western side of 
the Old Quarter, passing by the Market Square before 
meandering north-easterly. Many building materials and 
workers regularly pass along the Red Row, but it is an off-
shoot of the Row that has really made it famous: Snapfire 
Alley. In a large blind alley filled with brightly painted 
workshops, the greater bulk of the famed fireworks of 
Dale are tested and produced.
The fire workers of Dale engage in their delightful, if 
dangerous, trade here, regularly experimenting with new 
powders and mixtures in a specially built stone hall that 
lacks any flammable materials. Bright flares of light and 
muffled booms are regular occurrences around Snapfire

--- PAGE 51 ---
51
Alley. The alley is partially encircled by a large ornamental 
pool as another layer of “defence” should any accidents 
occur. The art of firework production is a relatively new 
one and very much a mysterious practice; the fire workers 
are very careful that only the “right sort” should learn any 
of their secrets. Free Folk who only wish to entertain and 
delight others are the types they look for when taking on 
new apprentices.
Notable Characters
Bard the Dragon-slayer, King of Dale
"Bard is not lost!" he cried. He dived from Esgaroth, when 
the enemy was slain. "I am Bard, of the line of Girion; I am 
the slayer of the Dragon!" 
Long before he wore a crown, Bard was known to his 
people as a grim but worthy man; stern but forthright 
in word and deed. Neither the crown nor long years on 
the throne will change those aspects of his character. He 
is widely regarded as a good king, not easily swayed by 
idle politics and ever mindful of the welfare of his people. 
Being a king does not come readily to the Dragon-slayer, 
though. He is not particularly fond of the trappings of 
nobility and accepts many of the more tedious duties of 
being a monarch with the same stoicism with which he 
would face an enemy in battle. Improving the lot of his 
kingdom is often in the forefront of his thoughts. He is 
smart enough to realise that he is not among the very 
Wise, but shrewd enough to know a forked tongue when 
he hears it. 
An Audience with the King
Hard-voiced and frequently of sombre mood, Bard is 
a proud, practical man, shaped by his former life as a 
captain. He is widely famed for being true to his word, 
no matter the personal cost. The Bowman reads hearts 
well, and is quick to see the worth of an individual. King 
Bard can most frequently be found in the Royal Palace, 
though he occasionally wanders the Market Square, with 
bodyguard in tow. When the crown grows heavy, he leaves 
the city to hunt on horseback in the lands to the west. 
Bard is a tall, imposing man, hale even as the years add 
increasing amounts of silver to his once black hair, with a 
sharp glance and a taciturn manner. Only his queen has 
the knack of getting him to smile regularly. 
Motivation: I have great ambitions for Dale: to make 
a kingdom in the North that all may see as a shining 
example of the Free Peoples’ best qualities.
Expectations: +1 if the heroes bring important news to 
King Bard; -3 if they ply him with unwise courtesies or 
spurious allegations.
Bard as a Patron
The Bowman concerns himself far more with action than 
words. Those who accept his patronage are not likely to 
find themselves at court much. Many of the tasks that Bard 
will ask of his followers involve furthering his ambitions 
by advancing the interests of Dale or occasionally by 
assisting his allies. This will likely see the Company sent 
into the wild to investigate monstrous threats or lending 
their weapons to defend a far-flung settlement from 
raiders. Bard can be made a patron of the Company if they 
have directly aided him during an Adventuring phase. 
Characters who have Bard as their patron may choose 
Dale

--- PAGE 52 ---
Lonely Mountain Region Guide
52
the Fellowship phase undertakings Offer Counsel at the 
King’s Court or Join the King’s Hunt regardless of normal 
requirements (see page 54). 
King Bard
Medium Human
STR 
16 (+3)
DEX 
20 (+5)
CON 
17 (+3)
INT 
11 (+0)
WIS 
15 (+2)
CHA 
8 (-1)
Armour Class 17 (Leather corslet)
Hit Points 90 (12d8+36)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Animal Handling +5, Insight +5, Perception +5, 
Survival +5, Traditions +3
Senses passive Perception 15
Languages Westron, The Language of Birds
Challenge 6 (2,300 XP)
Disciplined (1/day). Bard may use his bonus action to 
grant himself Advantage on all attack rolls this round.
Eagle-feathered Arrow (1/day). As a bonus action Bard 
draws this special arrow and attacks with his Great Bow. 
A successful hit causes a critical hit and any creature 
Medium size or smaller must make a DC 17 Strength 
saving throw or become Prone.
Hard Eyed. Bard scores a critical hit on rolls of 18, 19 or 
20.
Hawk’s Eye. Bard may use this ability as a bonus action. 
He does not suffer Disadvantage on attack rolls due to 
being at long range this turn.
Actions
Multiattack.Bard makes three attacks with his great bow.
Great Bow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, range 
150/600 ft, one target. Hit: 9 (1d8+5) piercing damage.
Queen Una the Fair
A merchant princess of Dorwinion, Una captured the heart 
of King Bard, the folk of Dale and even the neighbouring 
kingdoms of Erebor and the Woodland Realm in 2948. 
Una is a spirited woman, whose energy and enthusiasm 
makes for a stark contrast with her husband. Her outgoing 
demeanour, gentle wisdom and sharp business instincts 
complement her grim, socially reticent king, earning her 
the nickname, “the Dorwinion Gift”. 
Queen Una works ceaselessly to smooth diplomatic 
relations at court and is far more eager to meet with trade 
delegations, negotiate with envoys and sooth the ruffled 
egos of nobles than King Bard ever will be. Characters who 
have consistently shown themselves to act in the interest 
of Dale will catch her eye, and her recommendations do 
much to sway the King. 
A trusted Company that has Bard as a patron will 
occasionally be called upon to help the Queen, “with some 
trifling matter”; which is likely to be far more dangerous 
and clandestine than anything the Bowman would ask 
for. Una is one of the great beauties of the Age; dusky 
skinned, dark eyed, swift to smile and quick to laugh. Her 
easy going manner swiftly disarms others, but the Queen 
is every inch a merchant’s daughter and her instincts are 
very shrewd. 
Motivation: Bard vision is one of future glory for Dale, 
my view is on the more practical road from here to there. 
Expectations: +2 if the heroes have completed a mission 
for her or her family before — she places trust most freely 
in those who have earned it; +4 if the companions can 
give accurate, perhaps even unflattering, information 
about those with power; -3 if the heroes show signs that 
Dale and King Bard are not their foremost priorities.
Elstan, First Captain of Dale
Among the first to swear loyalty to King Bard, Elstan is a 
widely famed, and beloved, warrior. Ever at the forefront 
of battles and swift to offer aid to beset farmers, Elstan 
spends almost as much time in the Upper Marches as he 
does in Dale. Elstan commands the Royal Barracks and 
sets the example that many of the Royal Archers strive to 
emulate. Ironically, he’s only a passing archer, but he is a 
master swordsman. 
Elstan always keeps an eye out for those he deems to 
be both “trouble” and “useful sorts”. He’ll wryly note 
when asked that they are often one and the same. He 
occasionally directs companies that he trusts towards, 
“rumours and such that need looking into”. 
The First Captain of Dale is a marked contrast to the 
Dragon-slayer. Where Bard is taciturn, Elstan is garrulous; 
where Bard is grim, Elstan is frequently cheerful. Elstan is 
tall, grey eyed and gaunt, resembling nothing so much as 
an old wolf. He is not a young man any more, but age has 
not undone him as yet. He wears a bright suit of Dwarven-

--- PAGE 53 ---
53
mail and carries an ancient shield engraved with potent 
runes called the Aegis of Dale. 
Elstan, First Captain of Dale
Medium Human
STR 
16 (+3)
DEX 
11 (+0)
CON 
14 (+2)
INT 
11 (+0)
WIS 
11 (+0)
CHA 
15 (+2)
Armour Class 21 (Heavy mail, magical shield)
Hit Points 65 (10d8+20)
Speed 30 ft
Saving Throws Constitution +4, Wisdom +2
Senses passive Perception 10
Languages Westron
Challenge 4 (1,100 XP)
Aegis of Dale. Elstan bears a magical shield forged in 
Erebor for the protection of the new kingdom. While he 
bears it, he has Advantage on death saving throws and 
can use his bonus action to gain 10 temporary hit points.
Actions
Multiattack. Elstan makes two longsword attacks.
Longsword (Bitter Birthright). Melee Weapon Attack: 
+7 to hit, reach 5 ft, one target. Hit: 9 (1d8+5) piercing 
damage.
Reactions
Commanding Voice. Elstan may use his reaction to utter 
a command when a non-hostile creature he can see within 
30 ft is about to make an attack roll or a saving throw. 
The target adds a d6 Command Die to that roll, provided 
it can understand the message. A creature can benefit 
from only one Command Die at a time, and creatures that 
possess Commanding Voice cannot benefit.
Parry. Elstan adds 2 to his AC against one melee attack 
that would hit him. He must be aware of the incoming 
attack in order to parry.
Brindal, Enterprising Thief
Though the people of Dale are widely thought to be true 
and noble, not all aspire to honourable lives. Brindal is 
a young woman who lost much when Lake-town burned. 
Barely fifteen when the fires claimed her family, she 
followed many of her people to find a new home in Dale. 
Bitterness crept into her heart as riches finally began to 
flow into the city, but only a little silver found its way to her. 
Now, Brindal seeks to fill the emptiness left by the loss of 
her family and all she held dear with hoarded gold. She 
leads a small band of thieves based out of the Brokenstone 
who regularly ply the streets of Dale, picking the pockets 
of idle shoppers and keeping an ear out for useful secrets 
she can parley to interested parties. She has begun to 
hold Bardings in contempt, and the darkness of her spirit 
deepens with every season. 
Brindal is a sinewy young woman in her twenties, with 
light brown hair, and a hard green gaze that resembles 
nothing so much as a lizard’s. She speaks in short, terse 
sentences, and always keeps an eye on the nearest exit. 
Brindal
Medium Human
STR 
12 (+1)
DEX 
18 (+4)
CON 
13 (+1)
INT 
14 (+2)
WIS 
11 (+0)
CHA 
15 (+2)
Armour Class 16 (Leather corslet)
Hit Points 33 (6d8+6)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Sleight of Hand +8, Stealth +8
Senses passive Perception 10
Languages Westron
Challenge 2 (450 XP)
Expert. Brindal doubles her Proficiency Bonus for Sleight 
of Hand and Stealth.
Nimble Escape. Brindal can take the Disengage or Hide 
action as a bonus action on each of her turns.
Sneak Attack. Once per turn, Brindal deals an extra 3 
(1d6) damage when she hits a target with a weapon attack 
and has Advantage on the attack roll, or when the target 
is within 5 ft of an ally of Brindal that isn’t Incapacitated 
and she doesn’t have Disadvantage on the attack roll.
Actions
Short Sword. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 7 (1d6+4) piercing damage
Reactions
Snake-like Speed (Recharge 5-6). Brindal is adept at 
avoiding injury and can use her reaction to halve the 
attack damage on an attack that she is aware of.
Dale

--- PAGE 54 ---
Lonely Mountain Region Guide
54
Things to do while in Dale
The city of Dale grows with each season as trade flourishes 
and the Northmen who once lived in fear in the time of 
Smaug flock to its gates. While traffic across Wilderland 
slows down in the winter as the weather turns chill, the 
Market Square remains busy all year round. There is 
always a new treasure to be found amidst the tents and 
stalls of the city, if one only looks hard enough. 
New Fellowship Phase Undertakings
Here follows several new undertakings that can be chosen 
by companions spending a Fellowship phase in Dale. 
Commission a Smith of Anvil Way
A hero with gold to spare can contract the services of a 
master smith of Anvil Way, to customise a weapon, or 
purchase a new dwarf-forged weapon or suit of armour. 
Customised in Anvil Way
A hero can hire a master smith to modify an existing 
weapon, instead of forging a new one. The standard fee 
for this begins at 5 gold pieces, but the companion can 
attempt a DC 15 Charisma (Persuasion) check to reduce 
this fee — no special discounts for Dwarves.
•	
If the hero fails the check then he spends too much 
time haggling only to find that there is no smith 
willing to work for his parsimonious rates. The phase 
is wasted.
•	
If the hero succeeds at the check then she has managed 
to haggle a smith down to 4g, or 3g if she succeeded 
by 5 or more.
Throughout the Fellowship phase the smith calls upon 
the hero to come and test the grip on the sword, watches 
while they hack a target to pieces or takes notes as he 
has the hero leap about his workshop. At the start of the 
following Adventuring phase, the smith presents the hero 
with a gleaming piece of Dwarven forge-work specifically 
modified to fit them. 
•	
Once per round when the hero has failed an attack 
roll, you can use your reaction to reroll the attack.
Dwarf-forged Wargear
The master smiths of Anvil Way are well-suited to providing 
Dwarf-forged weapons and armour (see page 152 of the 
Player’s Guide). A hero can spend a Fellowship phase 
purchasing such a piece of equipment, usually receiving 
just before the beginning of the next Adventuring phase.
Join the King’s Hunt
Before he became known as the Dragon-slayer, King Bard 
was known simply as the Bowman; from those days he 
still has a deep love of the hunt. To relax from the stresses 
of his kingly duties, he occasionally journeys with a 
company of other skilled hunters into the Dalelands in 
search of game. It is a high honour to be invited to join the 
King on one of his excursions. 
A character spending the Fellowship phase in Dale may 
choose this undertaking to join King Bard on his jaunts. The 
hero gains a deeper understanding of the wilds surrounding 
Dale and has Advantage on any skill checks required if they 
serve as Hunter during a journey that takes them through 
the Northern Dalelands or the Upper Marches. 
Offer Counsel at the Royal Court
King Bard is not a man who chooses to rule by his will 
alone. He regularly seeks the wisdom of worldly folks from 
both within his borders and beyond. Though this practice 
is regarded with deep suspicion by some of the more

--- PAGE 55 ---
55
conservative among Dale’s old noble lines, Bard pays them 
little mind, for he knows the strength of his realm is bound 
with cooperation between the Free Folk of Wilderland. 
A hero spending the Fellowship phase in Dale may choose 
this undertaking to spend time at the Royal Palace and 
share their insight with his court. This undertaking may 
only be selected by Barding characters or heroes with the 
title of Thegn having a Proficiency Bonus of +4 or higher 
or any character with a Proficiency Bonus of +5 or higher.
By spending the Fellowship phase sitting in council with 
the King and his advisors, the hero earns the admiration 
of the people of Dale. The hero has Advantage on any 
Introduction checks done with Bardings the next year.
Stay at The Missing Scale
Mere steps away from the flow of the Market Square, 
all manner of folk find their way to seats at The Missing 
Scale. It is a tavern where local news from one street over 
is exchanged for tales from distant lands; where a soiled 
farmer from the north can rub elbows with a Dwarven 
miner from the Iron Hills, a wealthy merchant prince from 
Dorwinion or a Beorning trader from west of Mirkwood. 
A companion spending a Fellowship phase in Dale may 
choose this undertaking and make a DC 13 Charisma 
(Persuasion) check. On a success, the hero wins 1 
Rumour die, succeding by 5 or more earns 2 Rumour dice 
and a natural 20 means 3 Rumour dice. A Rumour die is a 
d4 and it can be added to any appropriate (History, Lore, 
Riddle, Shadow-lore) skill checks. Once a Rumour die is 
used, it is lost. Unused Rumour dice expire at the end of 
the Adventuring phase.
Take Apprenticeship with a Dwarven Smith
"Fathers would beg us to take their sons as apprentices, and 
pay us handsomely…" 
The Dwarven smiths of Anvil Way are not idle in the winter 
months. They warm their hearts along with their hands 
at the forge, dedicated to crafting new and wondrous 
treasures. Many Bardings seek apprenticeship with these 
master smiths, hoping to learn but a fragment of their 
skill. Such an education does not come cheaply. 
A character with a Proficiency Bonus of at least +3 (for 
the Dwarves will not suffer a completely inept student) 
who spends the Fellowship phase in Dale or Erebor may 
seek an apprenticeship with a Dwarven smith. The would-
be apprentice must then make a DC 15 Intelligence 
(Traditions) check to convince a Dwarven smith to take 
them on. 
On any level of success, the character must pay 5 gold 
pieces or the equivalent. On a failure, they have to pay 
10g. On a natural 1 they enrage the smith, who swiftly 
spreads the word to his fellows of the character’s flaws, 
and there is no apprenticeship to be had for any price. 
In return for a small fortune and a Fellowship phase spent 
working ceaselessly at a forge under a gruff taskmaster, 
the character can apply the lessons they learn to excel 
at the smith’s arts. From now on, they are considered 
proficient with smith’s tools. 
If they were already proficient they instead double their 
Proficiency Bonus for any checks made with smith’s tools 
during the next Adventuring phase.
Dale

--- PAGE 56 ---
Lonely Mountain Region Guide
56
THE LANDS ABOUT
- THE MOUNTAIN -
From the peak of Erebor, one can see for many leagues. 
And most of that land is once again being tamed by Men 
and Dwarves. Only deep Mirkwood and the farthest 
reaches of the Waste have yet to feel the bite of plough or 
axe, but even the most civilised lands are not free from 
danger.
The Northern Dalelands
From the Withered Heath in the north to the southern 
lands where the River Running meets the Redwater 
there were once villages and towns loyal to the House 
of Girion. No land grew more prosperous under his rule 
than the Northern Dalelands, the fertile land north-west 
of Dale. Long fields of rich soil gave plenty to those who 
tended the land, and the only shadow upon the land was 
that which came with the setting sun. 
When the Dragon made his lair in the Lonely Mountain, 
however, the Dalelands became known as the Desolation 
of Smaug. The land became bleak and barren, the soil 
tainted; only a little grass endured and bush and tree 
were reduced to broken and blackened stumps. All 
around the Mountain was silence, as though the birds 
and insects were afraid to wake the Dragon. 
With the death of Smaug, however, the land has begun to 
heal. Bird-song fills the skies once more and the land has 
burst into new life. Green grasses and fields of vibrant 
flowers surround the Lonely Mountain anew. Songbirds 
nest in the thickets and game has returned to the rolling 
fields. 
Bardings, too, have returned to the Dalelands. Newly 
built farms and villages are springing up everywhere, 
and golden fields of corn have been sown. This is the 
heart of the Kingdom of Dale, and it is these lands that 
King Bard has gifted to his most loyal of retainers. 
Combat Scenery: gentle slopes, lone trees or boulders, 
moorland heather, root-covered walls, streams, thickets
Wildlife
The Northern Dalelands are verdant once again, teeming 
with life. Rolling hills covered in swaying grasses and beds 
of heather and poppy are only broken by the occasional 
copse of trees or cairn of rock. 
Thrushes, chats and starlings nest throughout the hills, 
their songs filling the air. Small falcons knife their way 
through the sky; hobbies, merlins and peregrines. Ravens 
from the Lonely Mountain occasionally flap over the land, 
looking out for anything that might be of interest to their 
Dwarf-friends. 
Game is easily found here and those who are keen with 
a bow find meat to be a regular meal, whether hare, stag 
or boar. It is only in the far north, where the land falls 
under the shadow of the Grey Mountains, that wolves are 
encountered, gaunt grey killers that come down seeking 
to prey on lonely travellers or isolated farms.
Inhabitants
During the reign of Smaug, only a handful of Men dwelt 
in the Northern Dalelands. But in the past few years, 
life has returned to the land – and with it the Bardings 
themselves. Each year they return in ever greater 
numbers, flourishing under King Bard. 
Long
     
Lake
Forest River
E Esgaroth
E Dale
E
Erebor
E
Elven King’s
Halls
u
Withered Heath
The Waste
c
o
Northern
Dalelands
Enchanted Stream
Woodland Realm
c
Running 
River
Northern Dalelands
E Castle 
Orlmond
EEdric’s Town
E
Galford
E Strandburg

--- PAGE 57 ---
57
The hills are dotted with great tracts of tilled earth 
and simple farmsteads of fresh timber. Between these 
steadings are trade posts, inns, watchtowers and the 
mansions of nobles and courtiers out of Dale. These 
nobles are descended from older lines, loyal merchants 
from Esgaroth or newly raised warriors who fought at 
Bard’s side during the Battle of Five Armies. As a reward 
for their loyalty they were gifted with parcels of land 
throughout the Dalelands, where they govern in Bard’s 
name. 
Whilst grass and crops grow now in the Dalelands, it 
is too soon for newly planted trees to be harvested for 
wood. Instead, those villages founded near to the borders 
of Mirkwood look to the Woodland Realm for timber, 
and their unwelcome felling is the source of increasing 
tension between the Elves and Bardings.
Notable Characters
Bryni, Lord of Strandburg
Like many nobles who dwell in the Northern Dalelands, 
Bryni came here when King Bard first encouraged his 
people to restore the land. Bryni was young and eager 
then, not yet twenty when he came to the ruined village 
of Strandburg. He had little claim to rulership beyond a 
distant ancestor who had owned a handful of farms here, 
but Bryni held to the hope of brighter days to come and in 
the first year of his rule he was a goodly lord who stood 
shoulder to shoulder with those who had followed him. 
But when plenty became the law of his land, Bryni grew 
idle. His village of Strandburg flourishes in the very heart 
of the Northern Dalelands, far from dust of the Waste or 
the eaves of Mirkwood. He instead concerns himself with 
long winter feasts, the finest fashions for his wife, and 
the latest trophies of the hunt. In short, Lord Bryni has 
grown arrogant in his manor and deaf to the concerns 
of his people. With each passing season the fortunes of 
the people of Strandburg diminish ever so slightly and 
the troubles of far off lands draw closer. Though Bryni 
turns a blind eye to these shadows and waves away the 
concerns of his people with a smile, there may come a 
time when his mettle is finally tested. 
Even if he does not act like the hero he aspires to be, 
Bryni certainly resembles one; long flowing dark hair, a 
proud, lordly gaze and a habit for wearing shining mail 
and red cloaks even when not dressing for battle. 
Motivation: Is it not true that those of us with noble 
blood must set an example for the lesser folk? They see 
my fine things and know that hard labour can win a 
worthy living.
The Lands About the Mountain

--- PAGE 58 ---
Lonely Mountain Region Guide
58
Expectations: +2 if the Company brings gifts worthy of 
a lord of Bryni’s station; -3 if they insist that he must act 
against the Shadow; -1 if the heroes presume to lecture 
him on the true duties of a lord.
Lord Bryni
Medium Human
STR 
17 (+3)
DEX 
14 (+2)
CON 
13 (+1)
INT 
16 (+3)
WIS 
11 (+0)
CHA 
18 (+4)
Armour Class 18 (Heavy mail, Shield)
Hit Points 71 (13d8+13)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Animal Handling +2, History +5, Persuasion +6, 
Survival +2
Senses passive Perception 10
Languages Westron
Challenge 3 (700 XP)
Iron Will. Bryni is haughty and his heart has grown cold. 
If the heroes have accrued any negative modifiers in an 
audience with him, the Final Audience check is made with 
Disadvantage.
Savage Assault. When Bryni rolls a natural 18 or 19, he 
may, as a bonus action, make a single additional melee 
attack against the same opponent.
Actions
Multiattack. Bryni makes two attacks with his long 
sword.
Long Sword. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 7 (1d8+3) slashing damage or 8 (1d10+3) 
slashing damage if used with two hands.
Garrick of the Black Arrow
Not all who dwell in the Northern Dalelands wish to live 
under the rule of King Bard. There is a small company 
of men who have named themselves for the famed shaft 
that slew Smaug and would see that no such shadow 
ever returns to trouble their land: the Black Arrow. Led by 
Garrick, a former guard of Dale, they regularly patrol the 
borders of the land looking for signs of the shadow. While 
their purpose is noble, they are regarded by many to be 
troublemakers, ruffians and vigilantes. 
Men of the Black Arrow hold themselves to no law and 
kneel before no lord. Garrick himself has said that no 
words shall bind his company, save a direct decree by 
King Bard himself. 
The Men of the Black Arrow stir up trouble throughout 
the Dalelands. They bully farmers and villagers, harass 
travellers and traders and demand recompense from 
nobles for their ‘help’. While the Black Arrow has been 
responsible for several victories against Goblins and 
wolves out of the Grey Mountains, and lawless bands of 
brigands, Bard regards them as menaces and lawbreakers. 
But they see themselves as heroes and protectors of the 
common folk, who take action while the nobles sit idly in 
their manors. Garrick himself is a short, furrow-browed 
man with little time to bandy words with civilised folk. He 
is eager to whet his weapons with the blood of those who 
threaten the land. 
Garrick
Medium Human
STR 
13 (+1)
DEX 
19 (+4)
CON 
15 (+2)
INT 
13 (+1)
WIS 
12 (+1)
CHA 
20 (+5)
Armour Class 16 (Leather corslet)
Hit Points 65 (10d8+20)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Sleight of Hand +6, Stealth +6, Survival +3
Senses passive Perception 11
Languages Westron
Challenge 2 (450 XP)
Bodyguards. Garrick is always surrounded by Thugs 
and Outlaws whose duty it is to protect their leader. At 
least one Thug or Outlaw in his retinue gains the Thrall 
(Garrick) special reaction ability (see below).
Nimble Escape. Garrick can take the Disengage or Hide 
action as a bonus action on each of his turns.
Actions
Broadsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 8 (1d8+4) slashing damage.
Great Bow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, range 
150/600 ft, one target. Hit: 8 (1d8+4) piercing damage.
Thrall (Other Creature)
This creature is a slave of another creature, known 
as its master. If the master is within the creature’s 
movement speed, the creature can use its reaction to 
become the target of an attack that would have hit 
its master. If the master is slain, the creature flees 
the battlefield.

--- PAGE 59 ---
59
Notable Places
Castle Orlmond
Orlmond is a lord out of Dale, gifted with a parcel of land 
north of the River Running, and the wealth to make of it 
what he will. And what he has made is a mighty castle, by 
the standards of the Men of North, with Dwarf wrought 
gates and high towers. 
Unlike the ruined watchtowers that dot the Grey Mountain 
Narrows, Castle Orlmond is a new fortification, built atop 
a steep-sided hill with views across the Dalelands on one 
side, and to the nearby borders of Mirkwood on the other. 
Some thirty warriors stand guard here, and an increasing 
number of cottagers and foresters have settled nearby, 
comforted by the security of the keep. 
(More about Castle Orlmond – and the disposition of its 
lord – can be found in Mirkwood Campaign, page 111.) 
Edric’s Town
The northernmost village in the Northern Dalelands, 
Edric’s Town is unusual in that it draws most of its 
resources by mining along the edge of the Withered Heath. 
Edric’s Town boasts two mines, apparently rich in gold 
and gems, as well as a quarry. 
The people of Edric’s Town, though, pay for their new 
prosperity with toil and blood. Dwelling beneath the 
shadow of the grim peaks of the Grey Mountains, far too 
close to the Withered Heath, the villagers struggle against 
long, cold winters and fearsome beasts, which often stalk 
down from the north in search of easy prey. Unlike the 
majority of the other villages of the Northern Dalelands, 
the houses of Edric’s Town are built from stone. The town is 
surrounded by a large palisade of high wooden stakes set 
between squat towers, and there is talk that the Dwarves 
of Erebor may assist in building a new wall. 
Lady Sara, widow of the late eccentric Lord Edric, rules the 
village. Though strong and fierce in her own right, she has 
seen the troubles of her people grow heavier with every 
season. Thick snows bury the village each winter and they 
are regularly beset by wolves and even worse creatures. 
Her people dwindle in number each year, and despite the 
promise of wealth, few seem willing to replace them, for 
what use is money to the dead? Some say that a sterner 
lord is needed in such a place and that the Lady of Edric’s 
Town is not fit to rule. Travelling merchants whisper that 
talk of rebellion is quietly spreading, adding yet another 
sorrow amidst a sea of them. 
Galford
With the return of prosperity to Dale and Erebor, traders 
are once again taking to the old merchant roads that cross 
Wilderland. While it is the most direct path, Mirkwood also 
remains the most dangerous, causing many merchants to 
look elsewhere. The old trading road that runs the length 
of the Grey Mountain Narrows and passes through the 
Northern Dalelands on its way to the Lonely Mountain is 
seeing more traffic than it has in generations. 
While many Northmen left their meagre farms and halls 
behind to heed the Dragon-slayer’s offer of opportunities 
elsewhere, a few saw the advantages in staying. Galford is 
a growing village set on the trader’s path a day’s journey 
south-east of the Narrows’ eastern gap, centred on a new 
traveller’s inn called The Lantern. Named for the wondrous 
Dwarven brass lamp that swings from its front porch, the 
innkeeper Vali converted his former farmstead into The 
Lantern to cater to the merchants and other travellers that 
had begun to regularly ask if they could stay in his barns. 
Vali’s decision has proved to be a fortuitous one, for in 
the few years it has been open, The Lantern has already 
become a great success. Unlike many other settlers in the 
area, Vali wisely approached emissaries of the Elvenking 
in Lake-town before improving The Lantern (or the village) 
as Galford sits along the eastern eaves of Mirkwood. While 
Thranduil’s folk made no promises of protection, they’ve 
allowed Vali to use fallen wood from the forest in his 
ongoing constructions, a rare privilege.
The Lands About the Mountain

--- PAGE 60 ---
Lonely Mountain Region Guide
60
The Waste
Directly to the north and east of Erebor lies the trackless, 
ash-choked desert known as the Waste. The Waste spans 
over one hundred and fifty miles from the eastern edge 
of the Northern Dalelands to the Iron Hills, bordered to 
the north by the Lower Fork of the Grey Mountains, and 
beyond the Withered Heath. 
It is a broken, tumbled land of twisted stone, cracked 
earth and strange piles of rock melted into unnatural 
shapes, the Waste barely supports life, and even then only 
of the most desperate and ruthless kind. Stony tors made 
of sharp rocks can shred a climber’s hands to ribbons, 
while even the most seasoned guide can find themselves 
hopelessly lost in one of many blind canyons. 
The rare potable water found in the Waste is either a 
rancid-smelling brown or reeks of sulphur. Better by far the 
water holes with a rotten stench, though, than the waters 
that have no smell, for these are invariably poisonous. The 
soil has become a mixture of ash, silt and sand in which 
nothing wholesome grows. The only plant-life found in 
the Waste are various types of thorny bracken that are 
poisonous to animals and exude oils that irritate the skin, 
along with strange weeds that cling to the underside of 
misshapen boulders. 
The fierce winds that constantly blow from the north are 
somewhat lessened by the Grey Mountains, which helps 
to blunt their wrath, but terrible dust storms are still a 
bane to those travelling on the Waste. 
The western part of the Waste and the Northern 
Dalelands beyond are shielded by two mountain spurs, 
but the eastern part has little shelter from the biting cold. 
Piercing winds tear at the skin and reduce visibility to a 
feeble stone’s throw at best. Lucky travellers may find a 
suitably deep box gully or a rocky overhang, but there are 
no guarantees of shelter. 
While it could be argued that the Wastes belong to either 
the Kingdom of Dale or Erebor, neither King Bard nor King 
Dáin is interested in trying to reclaim them. The Dragon’s 
corruption lingers too strongly here and there are fertile 
lands to the south to be had with far less effort. 
Combat Scenery: briar patches, dust, eerie atmosphere, 
lone trees or boulders, poisonous fumes, rock edges, 
strong wind
Wildlife
There is little life in the Waste, and what few creatures 
live here hide beneath stony outcroppings during the 
day. Large, droning beetles make their homes near rancid 
pools of water. Small, poisonous snakes slither between 
the rocks. Most commonly seen are clouds of fat, buzzing 
blue-grey flies; travellers who attract these flies inevitably 
find their stores infested soon after by small, grey maggots 
unlike any found elsewhere. In all ways the Waste is 
unwholesome and tainted. 
Inhabitants
The Waste has always been an empty land, and no one 
makes their home here permanently. Those Men who do 
live there now are bandits or exiles, one and all. Some 
were banished from Dale. Others are opportunistic thieves 
who have fled to the Waste, correctly reckoning that none 
would wish to follow them. 
The already perilous lives of these miscreants have 
grown worse during the last few years, for particularly 
wretched Orcs and Goblins fled north here after the Battle 
of Five Armies. The desperate survivors of that battle are 
particularly ruthless and cunning, even for Orcs. 
Long
     Lake
E Esgaroth
E Dale
E
Erebor
u
Withered Heath
The Waste
c
o
Upper Marches
n
Northern
Dalelands
E A Chill and 
Windswept Grave
E Cold-drake Burrows
E
Grimarr’s
Hall
The Waste

--- PAGE 61 ---
61
Notable Characters
Witherfinger
The haggard old creature known as Witherfinger is 
described in Wilderland Adventures, page 130.
Hakon, Barding Noble
While change may be the course of the world, it is difficult 
for some folk to bear, especially those who were content 
with how things were. Such is the way with Hakon, once 
a powerful merchant of Esgaroth, now a courtier of 
Dale. Hakon’s family directly descends from the noble 
bloodlines of Dale. 
In Lake-town of old, Hakon wielded an enormous amount 
of influence due to both his family line and his wealth. 
Hakon frequently used his power to further his own 
interests at the expense of others and was seldom secretive 
about it. 
When Smaug crashed down onto Esgaroth, most of 
Hakon’s treasury sunk to the bottom of the Long Lake. 
With his wealth gone, Hakon decided that his best 
chance for repairing his fortunes was to support King 
Bard. Though his words of gratitude were ashes in his 
mouth, he pledged all that he had to help Bard’s cause. 
Unfortunately for Hakon, several of Bard’s loyal followers 
have long memories. While Bard gratefully accepted 
Hakon’s backing, he has been careful to keep him at arm’s 
length. 
Hakon is now a bitter man whose authority is but a 
shadow of what it once was. While he has slowly rebuilt 
his wealth, it is meagre compared to that which he once 
possessed; Hakon has decided to take matters into his 
own hands. While he has many schemes afoot, he is 
currently recruiting exiles – and worse – from the Waste 
who won’t shirk at “unpleasant” orders. Those who can 
go unrecognised by the townsfolk, he employs in Dale, 
the rest he has set to work at his holdings in the Upper 
Marches. In his late forties with long, grey hair, Hakon 
dresses in what finery he can still afford and plays the 
part of the loyal courtier; but while he smiles freely, his 
eyes betray nothing but contempt. 
Motivation: Only by valour and force can the North 
be free — diplomacy and contrition are but ways for our 
enemies to worm their way into our hearts.
Expectations: +1 if the Company are the sort who prefer 
problems that can be solved with quick and decisive 
sword-work; +2 if they are mostly Men-folk (Hakon has 
little trust for Dwarves or Elves); -2 if they seem the type to 
ask too many questions and poke into dark corners.
The Lands About the Mountain

--- PAGE 62 ---
Lonely Mountain Region Guide
62
Lord Hakon
Medium Human
STR 
15 (+2)
DEX 
12 (+1)
CON 
14 (+2)
INT 
17 (+3)
WIS 
13 (+1)
CHA 
16 (+3)
Armour Class 18 (Corslet of Mail, Great Shield)
Hit Points 97 (15d8+30)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Deception +9, Insight +7, Perception +7, 
Traditions +9
Senses passive Perception 17
Languages Westron
Challenge 6 (2,300 XP)
Expert. Hakon doubles his Proficiency Bonus for his skills 
(included above).
Twisted Words. Lord Hakon is never far from his own 
followers and even commands the respect (so far) of the 
City Guard. If attacked in a public place, he can spend his 
bonus action to summon appropriate aid, which arrives 
at the end of his next turn. Slaying those who believe 
they’re saving Hakon from banditry is a Misdeed worthy 
of several Shadow points.
Actions
Multiattack. Hakon makes three attacks with his sword.
Long Sword. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 6 (1d8+2) slashing damage or 7 (1d10+2) 
slashing damage if wielded with two hands.
Reactions
Counterattack (Recharge 5-6). If an attack roll misses 
Hakon, he can use his reaction to make an attack roll with 
Advantage. He must be wielding a melee weapon and 
able to see his attacker.
Uncanny Dodge. If Hakon can see an attacker that has 
struck him, he may use his reaction to halve that attack’s 
damage.
Rugash the Serpent, Orc-Chieftain
Rugash is not at all a typical Orc leader, which is in large 
part what has made his tribe so very successful on the 
Waste. When Rugash travelled to the Battle of Five Armies, 
he was neither the strongest nor the most skilled among 
his folk. He was cunning and, rare for an Orc, subtle. He 
knew what to say around which commander in order to 
direct events as he wished. 
For many long years, he was content to remain in the 
background, letting others endure the constant challenges 
and backstabs that most Orc leaders regularly face. It was 
not defeat at the Battle of the Five Armies that changed 
Rugash’s lot though; it was the aftermath. 
Rugash, having already seen which way the battle was 
going, slipped north before the rout. He had already 
planned his escape, finding a suitably well-hidden gully 
to hide in. His foresight was rewarded when the Eagles 
killed those of his fellows who were caught in the open 
as they fled. As the surviving Orcs and Goblins gathered 
into bands, Rugash fell in with a group led by a great lout 
intent on taking immediate revenge against the Dwarves. 
Rugash casually poisoned him and took charge.
Rugash the Serpent
Medium humanoid (orc-kind)
STR 
13 (+1)
DEX 
18 (+4)
CON 
15 (+2)
INT 
16 (+3)
WIS 
14 (+2)
CHA 
11 (+0)
Armour Class 15 (Orcish leathers)
Hit Points 52 (8d8+16)
Speed 30 ft
Saving Throws Constitution +4, Wisdom +3
Skills Insight +4, Perception +4, Stealth +6
Senses darkvision 60 ft, passive Perception 14
Languages Orcish, Westron
Challenge 3 (700 XP)
Stealthy. Rugash may use his bonus action each round to 
Hide.
Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, Rugash has 
disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks that rely on sight.
Actions
Multiattack. Rugash makes two attacks with his scimitar 
or his whip.
Orcish Scimitar. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 
5 ft, one target. Hit: 9 (2d4+4) slashing damage. Two-
handed.
Whip. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 10 ft, one 
target. Hit: 4 (1d4+2) slashing damage.
Call for Aid. Rugash always keeps a few of his lads 
back in case of trouble. He can use his action to summon 
them. 2d4 Orc Soldiers arrive in 1d4+1 rounds. If Rugash 
is slain before they arrive, they will likely avoid the 
Company unless the Loremaster deems otherwise.
Reactions
Parry. Rugash adds 2 to his AC against one melee attack 
that would hit him. To do so, he must see the attacker and 
be wielding a melee weapon.

--- PAGE 63 ---
63
Rugash’s approach has succeeded in the Waste, where 
cunning generally counts more than strength. His tribe 
is as elusive as creeping shadows, moving their camp 
often, and oftimes striking during a dust storm. It was 
his warriors who named him “the Serpent” a sobriquet 
he bears with pride. After his long string of successes, 
Rugash’s ambitions have grown. Even now his scouts 
carefully explore choice targets along the eastern edge of 
the Dalelands in preparation for raids to come. 
Erna
Smaug reduced Erna’s old life in Lake-town to ashes: 
home, husband, and children, all gone in an instant. In 
the dark days that followed the destruction of Esgaroth, 
Erna was numb, doing what little was asked of her by her 
fellow survivors, but little else. When she finally woke from 
her grief, long months later, the numbness has passed; in 
its place, rage. 
Beyond all things, Erna desires revenge, but she knows 
that her vengeance can never be anything but bittersweet 
and hollow, for her true target is dead. Still, there are 
other worms in the world, other drakes to slay. Erna soon 
found hunters to teach her their craft and they found her 
an ardent pupil. Erna now stalks the Waste, her blonde 
hair and fair face at odds with its stern expression. There 
she seeks out traces of any worm’s lair she can find. Folk 
that knew the quiet apothecary’s wife of old would not 
recognise her in the driven hunter she has become. She 
is not much for speech any more, but will help Free Folk 
in need, directing them to drinkable water and warning 
them away from some of the more dangerous areas of 
the Waste. 
Erna
Medium Human
STR 
18 (+4)
DEX 
13 (+1)
CON 
13 (+1)
INT 
15 (+2)
WIS 
14 (+2)
CHA 
10 (+0)
Armour Class 14 (Unarmoured Defence, Shield)
Hit Points 49 (9d8+9)
Speed 40 ft
Skills Athletics +6, Nature +4, Lore +4, Survival +4
Senses passive Perception 12
Languages Westron
Challenge 3 (700 XP)
Battle-fury. Erna can use her bonus action to enter a 
Fury. While in this state, she has Advantage on Strength 
checks and saving throws, gains +4 damage to her attacks 
and has resistance to non-magical bludgeoning, piercing 
and slashing damage. It ends after 1 minute or if she is 
Unconscious, or ends her turn without having attacked a 
hostile creature or taken damage since her previous turn.
Dragon-touched. Erna has Advantage on any saving 
throws caused by Dragons. Any Intelligence (Lore) checks 
that she makes about Dragons are at Advantage as well.
Reckless. Erna may choose to gain Advantage on all 
attacks she makes in a round, but all attacks on her gain 
Advantage until the start of her next turn.
Region-lore (The Waste). If Erna is with the Company for 
a journey that begins or ends in the Waste, the Guide rolls 
1d8+4 for the Embarkation Roll.
Actions
Multiattack. Erna makes two attacks with her spear or 
great bow.
Spear. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 
5 ft or range 20/60 ft, one target. Hit: 7 (1d6+4) piercing 
damage or 8 (1d8+4) piercing damage if used with two 
hands to make a melee attack.
Great Bow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, range 
150/600 ft, one target. Hit: 5 (1d8+1) piercing damage.
Notable Places
A Chill and Windswept Grave
Some fifty miles to the north of Erebor is a desolate 
collection of rocks that surround one of the few pools 
of drinkable water in the area. At times, the wind blows 
especially hard through the upturned stones, causing a 
low moaning sound to resonate from them which carries 
for many miles over the Waste. This is the final resting 
place of the old Master of Esgaroth’s bones. 
The Lands About the Mountain

--- PAGE 64 ---
Lonely Mountain Region Guide
64
King Bard gave him a great deal of gold to help rebuild 
Lake-town anew, but he fell prey to the corruption of the 
hoard, to the Dragon-sickness, and fled into the Waste 
with a handful of accomplices. They betrayed him, or 
he them, and in the end, he died alone of starvation for 
one cannot eat gold or precious stones. This is a tale well 
known in Dale. 
Some folk have claimed to have met the spirit of the 
Master wandering the Waste; a middle-aged Northman, 
dressed in tattered robes that blow in a wind no one else 
can feel. Chained by his greed or his guilt, he lingers still. 
It may be possible to seek the Master’s counsel, for he 
knew much that is now lost with Lake-town. His price 
would doubtless be something that would help him find 
rest: perhaps digging up the last of his treasure and 
returning it to the folk of Lake-town? 
While much of the Master’s wealth was lost or stolen, 
he managed to keep some of his ill-gotten gold till his 
end. A Company that finds his grave, seeks diligently 
among the rocks, and succeeds in a DC 20 Intelligence 
(Investigation) check will find the last of the Master’s 
fortune. It is worth Treasure 40*, but taking any of it 
automatically causes a hero to gain 1 Shadow point; 2 
Shadow points if they do not intend to give it away. 
Cold-drake Burrows 
Along the northern edges of the Waste there is a series 
of particularly large tors topping the foothills that lead 
upwards towards the Grey Mountains. Some of these 
stony crags have curious holes beneath them, usually 
carved from out the lower portions of the hill. Few that 
wander the Waste could be called “wise”, but only the 
greatest fools venture here, for some of these openings 
lead to the burrows of young Cold-drakes. 
Competition for food among the few remaining Dragons 
is fierce on the Withered Heath, for there is little left 
to eat for a young drake save their peers. Even in older 
times, the youngest drakes would sometimes flee the 
Withered Heath to find a safer place to sleep. With the 
Grey Mountains too close to the Heath for comfort, they 
would wander down onto the plains beyond and there 
make or steal a new lair. 
In their snug burrows the young Cold-drakes dream the 
strange dreams of their kind. There are few left now and 
most of them cannot be readily roused, though the scent 
of a favoured food – Dwarf for instance – may draw the 
interest of one or more of them. Though young by the 
standards of Dragons, they are only a little less perilous 
for that. 
Grimarr’s Hall
Near the eastern borders of the Waste lies a grand hall, 
corroded by time and scorched by Dragon-fire, but still 
standing. This is the Hall of Grimarr, the last Border 
warden of Dale. When Smaug descended from the north, 
the Kingdom of Dale did not fall all at once. Grimarr 
learned of Erebor’s doom from Dwarves fleeing to the 
Iron Hills, and he sent his men to help bring as many 
Dwarves east as he could, while making preparations for 
the coming of the Dragon. 
Smaug took many years despoiling the lands around 
his lair; it was not until three years after the sacking of 
Erebor that he first noticed the fortified hall on what he 
deemed the edge of his domain, sniffing out gold kept 
within its vaults. 
Grimarr had long since sent many of his men west 
and south, keeping only his eldest warriors who were 
prepared to give their lives to stop the Dragon. They 
failed, not one living to tell the tale – but it was a long 
count of years after his attack on the Hall of Grimarr 
before Smaug was seen again. 
While it is broken and scorched in part, Grimarr’s Hall 
remains a rare beauty in all the Waste. Small wildflowers 
grow around the edges of sparse grass clumps and 
ravens from the Iron Hills sometimes rest within the 
rafters before setting out on overland journeys to Erebor. 
Those in Dale these days that remember the legendary 
courage of the Last Border-warden believe some valuable 
relics of Dale’s history might still remain hidden within 
his Hall. Companies that stay within Grimarr’s Hall need 
not make Corruption checks against the taint caused by 
the Waste and can take a long rest as if they were in a 
sanctuary.

--- PAGE 65 ---
65
The Grey Mountains
Looking north from the slopes of Erebor, beyond the 
Waste, one can easily discern the jagged line of the 
easternmost branch of the Ered Mithrin – the Grey 
Mountains – stretching along the horizon. These 
imposing peaks have long held the imagination of the 
Dwarves and once drove them to near ruin, for although 
they are rich in ore, deep within the Grey Mountains 
lies the desolate plateau known as the Withered Heath, 
birthplace of Dragons, the bane of many a Dwarf-hold. 
It was from the Withered Heath that Smaug the Golden 
came, and there are many that yet believe Durin’s folk 
have not seen the last of his scaly kind. 
The Grey Mountains form a near-impassable border 
beginning at Mount Gundabad in the west and stretching 
well over a hundred leagues to the east. The peaks rise 
gradually but surely from the western end of the range, 
with the tallest mountains found in the Western Heights 
and the Southern Spur, which stabs southwards towards 
Mirkwood. 
From the Western Heights the mountains close ranks, 
paths and passes giving way to sheer rockfaces; this is 
the Wall, and not even the cold winds from the north can 
penetrate it. 
East of the Wall the Grey Mountains subside somewhat, 
the peaks lessening in height and canyons and other 
passes winding beneath them. Here the range splits in two 
– the Upper and Lower Forks of the Grey Mountains – and 
it is in the plateau between the Forks that the Withered 
Heath nestles. The Forks gradually peter out at their 
eastern ends, giving way to the foothills of the Waste. 
Along much of its length, the southern foothills separate 
the Grey Mountains from Mirkwood, making a long 
ribbon of land called the Grey Mountain Narrows. 
In places the Narrows are as much as twenty or thirty 
miles wide, but at either end mountain and forest nearly 
meet at the East and West Gaps. (More about the Grey 
Mountain Narrows can be found in the Rhovanion 
Region Guide, page 19.) 
The dreary heights of the Grey Mountains give birth to 
many powerful rivers; the source of both the Greylin and 
the Langwell (which thirty miles south of the mountains 
meet to form the Anduin), and the Forest River that flows 
through Mirkwood, are to be found here. 
The Ered Mithrin is mainly formed of hard, unyielding 
rock, a great deal of granite traced through with 
limestone, along with iron in abundance and a fair variety 
of gemstones. As a result the Dwarves built many holds 
here and delved many mines; all lie abandoned now, the 
Grey Dwarves themselves driven out by Orcs, Goblins and 
Dragons centuries ago. 
Combat Scenery: cliffs, crags, fallen trees, ravines, rock 
edges, scattered scree (rocks), steep slopes
Wildlife
The Grey Mountains have never been a hospitable range 
and few but the hardiest creatures make their home in 
u
Withered Heath
c
Grey Mountain Narrows
n
Woodland Realm
c
Northern
Dalelands
The Grey Mountains
Grey Mountains
The Waste
o
E
The Hoary Mountain
E
Beinharn
E
The Fireheart Mine
E
Zirakinbar
The Lands About the Mountain

--- PAGE 66 ---
Lonely Mountain Region Guide
66
the heights. A breed of sturdy mountain goats introduced 
by the Dwarves still thrive amidst the peaks where they 
scamper on rock ledges near indiscernible to any save the 
keenest-eyed Elves. Hawks, whose thick feathers provide 
a measure of warmth against the cold, soar on the harsh 
winds that forever blow over the mountaintops from the 
north, occasionally swooping down into the Narrows for 
an easier meal than the spare heights tend to provide. 
Most other creatures in the Grey Mountains can be found 
near the various rivers and springs that litter the range. 
Small prey animals and many types of bird dwell in the 
valleys cut by the cold waters, especially ravens and 
crows. Other than the howl of the wind, the rush of water 
and the occasional cracking of stone, the silence of the 
mountains remains unbroken.
Inhabitants
The Dwarves of the Grey Mountains thrived here for 
centuries, but have long abandoned their works to dust 
and ruin. It is now a land of lost realms remembered in 
sad songs, sung within the halls of Erebor and the mines 
of the Iron Hills. No Free Folk dwell here now; even those 
Dwarves who wish to return to this place now make their 
homes among the foothills of the Narrows, not in the 
mountains themselves. 
Those Dwarf-holds that were deserted either fell into 
disrepair or were taken by Orcs and Goblins. A few 
Mountain-trolls made their way from the Misty Mountains 
into the Grey Mountains, seizing whatever blackened hole 
took their fancy. After the Battle of Five Armies, many 
of them have been abandoned once more, the Orcs and 
Goblins having met their ends on the slopes of the Lonely 
Mountain. Even the few Dragons that made their lairs 
there have long since removed themselves to the Withered 
Heath. 
In the mountains of the Lower Forks and the East Gap, 
ruins of another kind dot the mountain sides here and 
there, for the old kingdoms of the north once deemed this 
land to be their border and built watchtowers to protect 
it. These too lie abandoned or crumbled. While the Grey 
Mountains are mostly silent and still now, in the deep 
places beneath the mountains, Hobgoblins, Snow-trolls 
and darker things still dwell, awaiting the call to rouse 
themselves once more.
Notable Characters
Ellaras the Searcher
Long ago, as Men reckon time, Ellaras was part of a 
company of Elves that set forth from the Woodland 
Realm on a quest of great secrecy into the Emyn Duir, the 
Mountains of Mirkwood. What they sought varies by the 
teller of the tale. 
Some claim that they were to recover one of King 
Oropher’s lost treasures; others believe they were chosen 
to end one of the Great Spiders, direct descendants of 
Ungoliant herself, who spin their webs within the very 
heart of Mirkwood. Regardless of what their mission 
was, all agree on two points: the mission failed utterly and 
Ellaras was the sole survivor of the doomed quest. 
Ellaras was found, months later, poisoned and raving, 
his hair white and his eyes wild, near the borders of the 
Woodland Realm. He spoke to none save his king of what 
had befallen him. When he had sufficiently recovered, 
Ellaras quit the halls of the Wood-elves to head north into 
the Grey Mountains. 
Now Ellaras searches for something amidst the 
abandoned Dwarf-holds of the Grey Mountains. Likely 
save Thranduil himself, none know exactly what the 
hunter searches for and he will not speak of it. 
While Ellaras has become rather taciturn, he can still 
be a useful, if unexpected, ally for travellers braving the 
heights, for he knows a great deal about the lost holds of 
the Ered Mithrin; far more, in fact, than many Dwarves 
do. Ellaras’ quest has brought him into conflict with 
another searcher in these peaks – Frár the Beardless (see 
Rhovanion Region Guide, page 22) – and the two are 
rivals of sorts, crossing blades as well as words on more 
than one occasion.
Motivation: I cannot tell you of what I seek. But if I could, 
you would agree that there is no more nobler quest upon 
Middle-earth.
Expectations: +2 if the heroes respect Ellaras and his 
quest without asking awkward questions; -1 if they try to 
invite themselves along or pry information out of him.

--- PAGE 67 ---
67
Ellaras
Medium Elf
STR 
12 (+1)
DEX 
18 (+4)
CON 
13 (+1)
INT 
17 (+3)
WIS 
15 (+2)
CHA 
11 (+0)
Armour Class 16 (Leather Corslet)
Hit Points 66 (12d8+12)
Speed 30 ft
Skills History +5, Lore +5, Perception +6, Survival +6
Senses passive Perception 14
Languages Quenya, Sindarin, Westron
Challenge 3 (700 XP)
Desperate. If Ellaras begins his turn with 33 or less hit 
points, he gains Advantage on all his attack rolls.
Expert. Ellaras doubles his Proficiency Bonus for 
Perception and Survival (included above).
Actions
Multiattack. Ellaras makes two attacks with his dagger 
or bow.
Dagger. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 
5 ft or range 20/60, one target. Hit: 6 (1d4+4) piercing 
damage.
Bow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, range 80/320 ft, 
one target. Hit: 8 (1d8+4) piercing damage.
Notable Places
The Hoary Mountain
The tallest peak of the Grey Mountains is the Gamolberg, 
the Hoary Mountain, a mighty height towering above 
the surrounding peaks. It takes its name from its snow 
capped summit, which often appears streaked with grey, 
as the limestone surface is revealed by strong winds or 
by the warmer seasons’ thawing. Centuries ago, Men 
living in the north used to test their courage by climbing 
the mountain’s sheer southern face, and stories tell of a 
throne sitting atop a high terrace, carved in the grey rock 
by the North wind itself. 
Beinharn
Amidst the Lower Fork of the Grey Mountains, there 
stands a Dwarf-hold much-celebrated in song: Beinharn, 
in the Sindarin tongue, the Halls of Beautiful Stone. While 
the reclusive Wood-elves generally have little to say on the 
accomplishments of Dwarves, in the days of Beinharn’s 
glory, more than a few ventured into the mountains to 
view its fabled halls with open admiration. Shaped directly 
from the living rock of the mountains, Beinharn was a 
wonder, a Dwarf-hold not particularly rich in ores, but 
blessed in sculptors and masons. The cliff face of Beinharn 
was lavishly ornamented, no surface went untouched by 
The Lands About the Mountain

--- PAGE 68 ---
Lonely Mountain Region Guide
68
skilled hands, resulting in a continuous, wondrous relief 
that wrapped about the paths that lead to the hold’s 
entrance. The inner halls were similarly adorned, even the 
simplest corridors carried one beautiful ornamentation 
or another. 
When the Dragons attacked the halls of the Grey 
Mountains, the Dwarves of Beinharn sealed away some 
of their greatest works behind cunningly wrought doors 
before fleeing. Beinharn’s lack of gold, long lamented 
by its inhabitants, proved its salvation: with nothing for 
the Dragons to scent out, the Hall of Beautiful Stone was 
mostly left in peace. Beinharn now stands empty, but 
generally intact, though time has taken its toll. There are 
none to view its fabled stonework now but the hawks that 
roost atop its towers. 
New Fellowship Phase Undertaking: 
Study the Stonework of Beinharn
Companions who spend a Fellowship phase in Erebor or 
Dale can set out to examine the marvellous stonework 
of Beinharn. This might otherwise be a cold, cheerless 
endeavour were it not for the beauty of the carvings. 
For the length of the next the Adventuring phase, 
describing the beauty of Beinharn gains a hero 
Advantage on the Introduction Check in any audience 
with Dwarves.
The Fireheart Mine
Above all things, Dwarves delight in the wonders of the 
earth; the lustre of gold, the strength of iron, the hard 
beauty of true-silver and the splendour of gemstones, all 
cut their way deep into the hearts of Durin’s folk. Beneath 
the Wall of the Grey Mountains, in the deepest, most 
impenetrable part of the range, the Dwarves discovered 
a vein of precious stone that they had never encountered 
before. Once cut into many faces, the stones showed 
bright green by day, but flickered and changed to a soft 
red in the light of torches or under starlight. 
The Dwarves held in great esteem this wondrous new 
gemstone, both for its beauty and its hardness, and many 
jewels and weapons were adorned with it. Whatever they 
named it in their own speech, the Dwarves do not tell, but 
in the Common Tongue, they called it the “fireheart”. The 
folk of Durin have long since given the source of fireheart 
gems up for lost, and see their glittering light no more save 
on cherished older works… 
Yet the Fireheart Mine still exists. While the paths that 
once led to it are lost, the mine was neither destroyed, 
nor occupied. Deep in Erebor’s Chamber of Mazarbul, a 
diligent scholar might find a map that leads to a secret 
path through the mountains to the mine; and perhaps 
if they moved quickly and quietly they might yet be able 
to win a few choice stones from the old mine. (Fireheart 
gems can greatly assist in forging new treasures – see page 
34 for more details.) 
Zirakinbar
In the Lower Fork stands a lone watchtower, carved by the 
Dwarves out of the living rock, atop the peak of Zirakinbar. 
A narrow mountain road leads up to the main gate of the 
tower and as a company approaches, they will see the 
many empty windows of the tower.
Sometimes smoke issues forth from its upper levels, 
sometimes strange lights can be seen glittering inside; for 
the watchtower of Zirakinbar is often occupied, but by 
creatures fouler than Dwarves. Some whisper it is haunted 
by a ghostly servant of Sauron, others that a Cold-drake 
slumbers here now… (See Wilderland Adventures, pages 
128 and 137, for more about what lies in Zirakinbar.) 
The Withered Heath
Infamous throughout Middle-earth as the breeding 
ground of Dragons, the Withered Heath has the darkest 
of reputations – and with good reason. At the eastern 
end of the Grey Mountains, where the mountains split 
into the Upper and Lower Forks, lies the Withered Heath. 
Travellers journeying through the Grey Mountain Forks 
will sometimes catch sight of the Withered Heath through 
a gap in the mountains; scorched black and rent by the 
claws of ancient creatures, covered in a constant pall of 
smoke and, when the cold wind blows through, it carries 
with it the stench of ash. This is no place for mortal 
creatures. 
Here the great serpents of the world bred for many 
generations. Wingless Cold-drakes, limbless Long worms

--- PAGE 69 ---
69
and the Great Worms, who possess both limbs and wings, 
all mated here before turning back to devouring one 
another in a near endless contest of wits and raw strength. 
Despite the remoteness of the Withered Heath, its 
inhabitants always seemed at least partially aware of the 
world beyond their valley, dreaming of far-away treasures 
in their Dragon-sleep. The war against the Dwarves took 
its toll on the Great Worms, for very few remain now. 
Smaug the Golden, greatest of his kind in the Third Age 
of the world, slew or devoured as many of his fellows as 
he could catch in order to marshal his strength before 
sacking Erebor. 
Whether by the talons of Smaug or some other cause 
unknown to Free Folk, very few of the Great Drakes endure, 
but they have not all left the world as yet… 
The Withered Heath remains a poison-blasted wasteland. 
A waterless Dark Land where none but the insane or 
desperate venture. Yet Smaug the Golden was not the 
only Dragon to sport wealth upon his vast hide, and 
many generations of Great Worms have died upon the 
Withered Heath, leaving countless troves in their wake. 
So, at least, goes the reasoning of the desperate fools who 
seek for treasure here. Most turn back long before they 
arrive those brave enough to push on peer over the rim 
of the plateau before turning back. Only the foolhardy 
continue onto the Withered Heath itself, and none ever 
return. 
The Upper Marches
The open countryside that extends from the eastern banks 
of the River Running to the foothills of the Iron Hills is 
called the Upper Marches. These plains extend south for 
nearly a hundred miles, bordered by the Long Marshes 
in the west, before eventually opening out into the wide 
steppes of the Nether Marches. 
Too far east to benefit from the protection afforded to the 
Northern Dalelands by the Grey Mountains, here winds 
howl out of the North in the winter. Sometimes these 
winds carry an unnatural chill upon them, or else foul 
air and ash blown off from the Waste. Northmen have 
dwelt here since long before the birth of Dale and few 
abandoned their homes when Smaug’s reign began. With 
the Kingdom of Dale newly resurgent, Bard increasingly 
looks to the Upper Marches to expand his realm, and 
many Bardings have settled here in the past five years, 
hopeful for a new life. 
Far beyond the plains of the Upper Marches lies the 
twin kingdom to Erebor: the Iron Hills. Much like Erebor 
was founded at the headwaters of the River Running, so 
too were the Iron Hills carved at the headwaters of the 
Redwater. 
Combat Scenery: bracken, foundations, freezing cold, 
lone trees, nettle banks, small streams, steep slopes (near 
the Iron Hills)
Wildlife
The Northmen who live in the Upper Marches tend large 
flocks of sheep and small herds of cattle, following them 
where they wander. As a traveller draws east into the long 
plains of this realm they find a land filled with hares, 
Running River
Long
     
Lake
E
Iron Hills
E Esgaroth
E Dale
E
Erebor
The Waste
o
Upper Marches
n
Long Marshes
o
Nether Marches
n
The Upper Marches
E
The Great 
Stone Cairn
E
Ironthorpe
Here of old ran the Old Dwarf Road
The Lands About the Mountain

--- PAGE 70 ---
Lonely Mountain Region Guide
70
rabbits and all manner of birds. Great flocks of ravens 
wheel high overhead, feeding on carrion abandoned by 
the large predators found in the eastern wilds. Amongst 
these are bears and wandering wolves, which come from 
the southern woodlands in search of prey. 
Inhabitants
The Northmen of Rhovanion – ancestors to the Bardings – 
have lived between the rivers east of Mirkwood for many 
thousands of years, perhaps more. They once paid fealty 
to a king of Wilderland, who attempted to weld the tribes 
and clans into a single realm. Although many fled west to 
the Anduin Vales when his kingdom fell, some remained, 
living along the Running River. 
In time, some followed the trade between the Iron Hills 
and the Lonely Mountain, eventually founding Dale, but 
most lived as they always had done, a pastoral existence 
amidst the herds, or in small villages along the river. 
Into this bucolic landscape newcomers have recently 
come. Many Men have been drawn to the Kingdom of 
Dale, hearing tell of the exploits of the Dragon-slayer. Bard 
encourages many of them to settle the Upper Marches, 
where he has been handing out parcels of land to any 
who would take them. All across the plains, new villages 
and farmsteads have sprung up; the Kingdom of Dale 
resurgent. 
The Dwarves of the Iron Hills dwell in their halls to the 
east here, occasionally mining gold and jewels, along with 
vast quantities of their namesake. Notably grim, even for 
Dwarves, the folk of the Iron Hills are famously laconic, 
favouring deeds over words. 
While there are certainly skilled craftsmen amidst the 
folk of the Iron Hills, many of them are content to be 
hard-working miners and chose to stay when their lord 
removed himself to Erebor. Besides, the forges of the 
Lonely Mountain still need their iron and it isn’t going 
to walk there of its own accord. With the resurgence of 
Erebor, there is much traffic between the two kingdoms 
and talk of building the old Dwarf Roads anew. 
Notable Characters
Thorin Stonehelm
When his father took the throne of Erebor, he left his son 
Thorin to rule the Iron Hills as his steward. Nicknamed 
‘the Stonehelm’, for he is so stubborn it is said his head 
must be made of stone, Thorin is anxious to prove his 
worth as both the son of Dáin Ironfoot and the namesake 
of Thorin Oakenshield. 
Much to his chagrin, he is required to spend most of his 
days tending to courtly affairs and trade matters with 
both the Bardings and his kin in the west. When the host

--- PAGE 71 ---
71
of the Iron Hills set forth to the Battle of Five Armies, he 
was forced to remain behind to guard the hold, a bitter 
regret that troubles him still. Thorin knows every song 
about the folk of Durin ever written and holds those that 
speak of courage close in his heart. 
Much like his father, Thorin dresses more like a miner 
than the son of a king, his red forked beard tucked out of 
the way of his tools.
Motivation: Though the Prince in me seeks peace for his 
people, the warrior secretly hopes that the Shadow will 
return, for I know that I am ready to forge my own legend 
worthy of my fallen kin. 
Expectations: +4 if the heroes bring a call for action to 
Thorin — he hates simply waiting for things to happen; -2 
if the Company advises caution even if Thorin’s response 
is rash; +1 if a Dwarf Player-hero gently chides Thorin for 
speaking before thinking (-3 instead if the hero is from 
another culture).
Thorin Stonehelm
Medium Dwarf
STR 
18 (+4)
DEX 
10 (+0)
CON 
15 (+2)
INT 
14 (+2)
WIS 
12 (+1)
CHA 
11 (+0)
Armour Class 17 (Dwarf-wrought Hauberk)
Hit Points 84 (13d8+26)
Speed 25 ft
Skills History +5, Insight +4, Persuasion +3
Senses passive Perception 11, night vision
Languages Khuzdûl, Westron
Challenge 5 (1,800 XP)
Baleful Mattock. Thorin scores a critical hit on a natural 
roll of 19 or 20.
Battle-charge. If Thorin moves at least half his speed to 
engage a new foe he gains Advantage on his attack rolls.
Guardian. Thorin can use his reaction to make an 
Opportunity Attack when a creature within reach attempts 
to move away from him. If he hits the creature, it does not 
move.
Actions
Multiattack. Thorin makes three attacks with his 
mattock.
Mattock. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 11 (2d6+4) piercing damage.
Sark the Bear-skinned
Brigands and robbers are a common threat in the Upper 
Marches, even more so with the increase in trade along 
the River Running and the settlers pouring into the plains 
from Dale. Of these bandits, none are so feared as Sark 
the Bear-skinned, a Half-orc from the East who prowls 
the wilds of the Upper Marches wearing the mantle of 
a great black bear that he is said to have slain with his 
own hands. 
With his notched axe and a band of murderous brigands at 
his call, Sark once preyed upon lone travellers, wandering 
shepherds and isolated farms; but as his band grows 
larger and the pickings richer, he finds himself increasingly 
drawn to the new villages of the Upper Marches. 
Sark
Medium humanoid (Orc-kind)
STR 
16 (+3)
DEX 
13 (+1)
CON 
19 (+4)
INT 
10 (+0)
WIS 
15 (+1)
CHA 
17 (+3)
Armour Class 18 (Orc Mail, Shield)
Hit Points 68 (8d8+32)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Intimidation +5, Perception +5
Senses darkvision 60 ft, passive Perception 15
Languages Orcish, Westron
Challenge 4 (1,100 XP)
Bulky Armour. Sark has Disadvantage on Dexterity 
checks.
Horrible Strength. If Sark makes a successful melee 
attack, he may use his bonus action to cause 3 additional 
damage to the target.
Actions
Multiattack. Sark makes two attacks with either his Orc-
axe or long spear.
Orc-axe. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 6 (1d6+3) slashing damage or 7 (1d8+3) 
slashing damage if wielded with two hands.
Long Spear. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 10 
ft, one target. Hit: 8 (1d10+3) piercing damage. Heavy, 
two-handed.
Reactions
Counterattack (Recharge 5-6). If an attack roll misses 
Sark, he can use his reaction to make an attack roll with 
Advantage. He must be wielding a melee weapon and 
able to see his attacker.
The Lands About the Mountain

--- PAGE 72 ---
Lonely Mountain Region Guide
72
Notable Places
The Old Dwarf Road
The Dwarves once traded extensively between the Iron 
Hills and the Blue Mountains, travelling upon a broad, 
proud road of finely quarried stone that ran right through 
the middle of Mirkwood and beyond. Just as the Old 
Forest Road has been swallowed up by the forest, so too 
has the portion of the road that once extended from the 
forest to the Iron Hills vanished beneath the grass of the 
Upper Marches. 
Here and there a traveller might stumble upon a flagstone, 
or the ruins of a waystation overgrown and forgotten, but 
for the most part nature has reclaimed the road. But with 
heightened trade, Steward Thorin Stonehelm wonders 
if the road might be reopened once more, perhaps in 
partnership with King Bard. 
The Great Stone Cairn
In the heart of the rolling plains of the Upper Marches 
is a mound of stones that has stood since before the 
coming of Smaug. It can be seen from miles around and 
the lingering ruins of a long abandoned stone tower 
still stand atop it. This was once a wayfort upon the Old 
Dwarf Road, a keep that stood guard over travellers and 
provided them with somewhere to stay the night. When 
the road fell into disuse, so too did the wayfort, reclaimed 
by nature.
Now it serves as the hold for folk of a different kind, for 
it is home to a colony of ravens brought here by Korun, 
son of Roäc, during the reign of Smaug. Those that come 
seeking unusual counsel and whose need is great, may 
find it here. The ravens are wise birds who know many 
secrets and have countless eyes throughout the Marches. 
If the ravens find a requester’s cause just, they may give 
them some of the answers they seek, for a price; a trinket 
or a quest perhaps. 
Sadly, Korun himself was recently slain by a Goblin arrow 
(see Wilderland Adventures, page 121), and his ravens 
are besides themselves with grief. Now they cry out for 
revenge, but what is a bird such as they to do against a 
Goblin? If only they could find a company willing to take 
up their cause… 
The Iron Hills
The easternmost settlement of Dwarves is to be found at 
the farthest edge of Wilderland, where the map ends in a 
spine of stone peaks. The hills rise tall and fair, cold and 
unforgiving, stretching from west to east. These are the 
Iron Hills, aptly named for the bountiful iron mined from 
its deeps. 
While most Dwarves crave gold, jewels or mithril, the 
Dwarves of the Iron Hills know that these riches are but 
rewards earned with the stroke of a mattock – mattocks 
that are born in their forges. The people of the Iron 
Hills harbour a fierce, martial pride; however, they see 
themselves as wardens, not warmongers. 
In the past, these lands were attacked by Men and Orcs 
from the East, and the Dwarves of the Iron Hills remain 
vigilant against such threats. As a result, the hold of the 
Iron Hills is neither as fair as Erebor, nor as grand as 
Khazad-dûm, for its denizens are rather more practical 
and stoic. The gate of the hold is much smaller than that 
of Erebor, barred by a huge iron portcullis that takes ten 
Dwarves to raise. Long passages within are set with great 
traps, ready to be collapsed on those who would invade 
the halls of the Iron Hills. It has few great chambers 
within; instead, most rooms are small so that enemies can 
enter no more than a dozen at a time, wherein they will 
find themselves unable to avoid the sharp axes and heavy 
mattocks of Thorin Stonehelm’s guards. 
Only the great forge in the lowest levels of the Iron Hills 
is as grand in scale as any hall found in Erebor. Here 
furnaces large enough to swallow a man burn red day 
and night and anvils ring in ceaseless chorus. Beside the 
many workshops are storage rooms made not for gold, 
but to house the broad shields, sharp axes, hauberks of 
steel, and hose of fine mesh for which the Iron Hills are 
rightly renowned. 
Ironthorpe
The Old Forest Road that ran through Mirkwood long ago 
originally had two branches east of the forest. One headed 
directly north to the Lonely Mountain, the other ran 150 
miles north-east across the Upper Marches to eventually 
end just south of the Iron Hills, along the banks of the 
Redwater, in a town called Ironthorpe.

--- PAGE 73 ---
73
Before the coming of Smaug, Ironthorpe had been a small, 
but thriving, settlement of Northmen that acted for the 
Iron Hills much as Dale acted for Erebor: as a trading place 
for their goods and a means of acquiring food-supplies. 
With the coming of the Dragon, though, all changed. As 
the Great Worm’s corruption spread, eventually creating 
the blasted land known as the Desolation of Smaug, ash 
continually blew east into the fields about Ironthorpe, 
slowly poisoning the ground and turning their crops 
sickly. With Erebor gone and Ironthorpe’s bounty reduced 
to subsistence, Grór’s people had to find new sources of 
food and new customers for their goods. It soon became 
obvious that they would have to travel far on their own to 
do so. 
Ironthorpe became a shell of its former self. A squalid 
town filled with desperate folk, where the Dwarves would 
occasionally load goods onto the Redwater bound south 
for Dorwinion, but avoided otherwise. Erebor has been 
restored and regular trade with the Iron Hills renewed, but 
Ironthorpe has been slow to change. It remains a wretched 
place filled with outcasts and scofflaws. 
There are plans in the works to rebuild the old roads and 
perhaps make something worthwhile of the town, but 
Dáin is wary of where the allegiances of those who live in 
Ironthorpe now reside, a sentiment his son shares. 
The Long Marshes
The lands opened wide about him, filled with the waters of 
the river which broke up and wandered in a hundred winding 
courses, or halted in marshes and pools dotted with isles on 
every side...
The narrow belt of land flanking both sides of the River 
Running where it touches the eastern eaves of Mirkwood 
has been turned into a trackless swampland by the 
flooding of the river waters over too many years to count. 
But in more recent times, relentless rains and even a 
couple of earthquakes have seen the Long Marshes 
expand their boundaries north, to reach and engulf even 
the course of the Forest River where it exits Mirkwood to 
the east.
By 2946, the Long Marshes cover an area more than one 
hundred miles long from north to south, from the eastern 
borders of the Woodland Realm to the shores of the Long 
Lake, and south beyond the Mountains of Mirkwood.
To enter the Long Marshes, a traveller needs only follow 
the River Running as it goes south beyond the Long Lake, 
or the Forest River to the west. Often, the marshes will 
offer the same sight, regardless of the chosen direction: 
a wide, treeless expanse of mires and pools of sullen 
waters, unmoving but for the river course that stirs them. 
Here, thick mists rise in the morning, and lift only with 
the approaching of midday. But the fog never really 
disappears; rather it changes into a transparent vapour, 
capable of turning the brightest light of the Sun into the 
palest radiance.
The dreariness of the region is multiplied where the 
marshes meet Mirkwood. Under the shadows of the forest 
all sounds of nature are utterly silenced and only chill 
breezes move the drooping branches of the trees that rise 
from the waters.
Combat Scenery: Black toadstools, bogs, flooded pits, 
mud, sucking bogs, thick-trunked trees
The Long Marshes
Running River
Long
     
Lake
E Esgaroth
E Dale
E Erebor
Upper Marches
Long Marshes
o
E
The Great 
Stone Cairn
n
Here of old ran the
 Old Dwarf Road
E
The Wood of 
Hanging Trees
The Lands About the Mountain

--- PAGE 74 ---
Lonely Mountain Region Guide
74
Wildlife
Amidst the reeds, arrowgrass, sundew and marsh violets 
the Long Marshes teem with life. Many kinds of frogs live 
near to the water while eels, tench, roach and rudd swim 
in the slow flowing pools and meres. Grey herons stalk 
through the mud while marsh harriers circle overhead. 
Amidst the reeds live otters, water voles and shrews. 
In the southern reaches of the march roost visitors from 
the nearby Mountains of Mirkwood — gore-crows. They 
look like small-sized ravens with a greenish sheen to their 
feathers. They are cruel and intelligent birds and legends 
say that they are in league with the hideous Marsh-
dwellers that live here.
Inhabitants
There are no Free Folk here, but several creatures hide 
among the bogs and stagnant pools of the Long Marshes, 
profiting from the remoteness and unwelcoming nature of 
the place. Some among them are found exclusively within 
the confines of the swamps, and their activity has greatly 
worsened the reputation of the region.
Marsh-Hags (page 99 of the Loremaster’s Guide) and 
Marsh-Ogres (page 109 of the same volume) both live here 
in addition to more common Orc-kind. But the greatest 
danger are in the sunken ruins that dot the swamplands 
for there is where the Marsh-dwellers (page 136 of the 
Rhovanion Region Guide) wait.
Notable Characters
Galion
Once the personal cupbearer of the Elf-King, Galion is 
was consigned to the Long Marshes for drunkenness 
since the famous escape of a group of Dwarves from 
the royal halls. Now he and a small band of Mirkwood 
Elves patrol the marshes and make sure that none of its 
dangerous inhabitants make their way into the lands of 
Thranduil.
Galion’s once jubilant nature has turned grim and he 
dresses now in dark-brown leathers, the better to move 
unseen in the shadows of Mirkwood. He has hope that 
his assignment is temporary — perhaps only a decade or 
two — and that he will once again be in the good graces of 
his king.
Motivation: While I serve my lord with pleasure, I am 
better suited for his elegant halls than this muck and mire.
Expectations: -4 if there are Hobbits or Dwarves in the 
Company — he will never forget his embarrassment at 
the (invisible) hands of Bilbo; +1 if there is a high-ranking 
Wood Elf or High Elf in the Company that might put in a 
good word with Thranduil.
Galion
Medium Elf
STR 
11 (+0)
DEX 
18 (+4)
CON 
14 (+2)
INT 
15 (+2)
WIS 
10 (+0)
CHA 
13 (+1)
Armour Class 16 (Leather Corslet)
Hit Points 52 (8d8+16)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Athletics +2, Lore +4, Perception +5
Senses passive Perception 15
Languages Silvan, Sindarin, Westron
Challenge 3 (700 XP)
Deadly Shot. At the start of his turn, Galion may use his 
bonus action to aim. His speed becomes 0. If he does so 
then he has Advantage on all ranged weapon attacks he 
makes this round.
Hawk’s Eye. Galion may use this ability as a bonus 
action. He does not suffer Disadvantage on attack rolls 
due to being at long range this turn.
Hunter. Galion doubles his Proficiency Bonus for 
Perception checks (included above).
Actions
Multiattack: Galion can make two attacks with either his 
Short Sword or his Great Bow.
Short Sword: Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 7 (1d6+4) piercing damage.
Great Bow: Ranged Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, range 
150/600 ft, one target. Hit: 8 (1d8+4) piercing damage.
Notable Places
The Wood of Hanging Trees
Where the Old Forest Road meets the slow-moving waters 
of the Marshes are tangles of hoary willow-trees standing 
close together. Their drooping branches trail into the water 
and shut out the light of day even at its brightest. The trees’ 
moulding roots sink deep into the grey slime.

--- PAGE 75 ---
75
Long ago, a town of Men once thrived, serving as a 
waystation both for travelling Dwarves coming from or 
travelling to the Iron Hills and merchants coming from 
the South or East. When the power of the northern Kings 
waned, the town was abandoned, until the marshes and 
the forest swallowed its ruins, together with any trace of 
its existence.
Now the only thing that waits in the groves of the willow-
trees is Gallows-weed (page 124 of the Rhovanion Region 
Guide). Spotting one of the plants requires a DC 20 
Wisdom (Perception) check. Unwary heroes who pass 
too close to a tree may be Surprised as vines lash out and 
pull the victims up off the ground and begin to strangle 
them.
The Lair of the Marsh-dwellers
In the centre of the willow-trees, the ruins are more 
prominent as if this was the place where the main buildings 
of the sunken town once rose. There is a deep pool of dark 
water here. Mounds of mud-splattered and weed-choker 
ruins encircle the water, with the remains of a marble arch 
and rotting wooden gate on the southern shore. In the 
treetops around the pool the Gore-crows croak, signalling 
the presence of any trespassers.
Those who linger here may imagine that they hearing the 
tolling of a distant bell. It seems to come from under the 
ground. This is the hidden lair of the Marsh-dwellers. 
General Description
The underground complex reeks of dying and rotting 
things. It is dark, dank and cold, its stone floor invariably 
covered by a film of stagnant water that provides it a 
slippery sheen (see page 95 of the Loremaster’s Guide).
1. Flooded Chamber
The heroes can reach this room by entering the pool, and 
then just walking or swimming underwater for a few yards 
to an opening on the poolside. The opening leads to a 
short passage that emerges in the half-flooded chamber. 
The room is completely devoid of any features, barring 
wet stone walls and a dark doorway leading to the main 
cellar.
The Lair of the Marsh-dwellers
1. Flooded 
  Chamber
2. Main Cellar
3. The 
   Cells
3. The 
   Cells
4. Wine Cellar
5. Treasure
   Chamber
3. The 
   Cells
3. The 
   Cells
The Lands About the Mountain

--- PAGE 76 ---
Lonely Mountain Region Guide
76
2. Main Cellar
This is a vast vaulted chamber, presenting six arched 
openings, three on the right side and three on the left 
(leading to several smaller cellars). The farthest doorway 
on the right side is larger, its arch decorated with stones of 
many colours (leading to the wine cellar).
In the wall opposite the opening to the flooded cellar, 
there is a narrow vertical chimney, leading to the 
surface (a faint breeze can be felt if someone sticks their 
head into the chimney); inside the chimney hangs a bell 
rope, that if pulled rings a dull-sounding bell (attracting 
Marsh-dwellers). The floor inside the confined space of 
the chimney is littered with gore crow feathers and bird 
deposits.
3. The Cells
The four passages that exit the main cellar lead to several 
cells, once used to store goods and wines, and today 
serving as the Marsh-dwellers’ resting places. Most cells 
appear as no more than wet, dirty holes, filled with waste 
and food scraps. The walls of the cells and the passages 
between them are narrow (page 95 of the Loremaster’s 
Guide). There are dozens of the monsters here.
4. Wine Cellar
The decorated archway that opens in the main cellar 
leads to a short flight of marble steps descending into the 
darkness. At the end of it, a reinforced door defaced by 
claw marks is found. Beyond the door is the wine cellar, 
a wide room with a low ceiling resting on short, stocky 
pillars.
5. Treasure Chamber
The first doorway to the left of the flooded chamber leads 
to a tight and twisting passage that suddenly opens into a 
wider semicircular room. Here, a great wooden gate is set 
into the stone wall. The foul stench that permeates every 
inch of the underground complex is almost overpowering 
here. The gate is not locked, and the great wooden door can 
be pulled open with some effort, its hinges creaking noisily. 
Beyond the gate is a natural cave, the treasure chamber of 
the Marsh-dwellers: on the irregular floor is a huge heap 
of polished gold coins and other shining objects, like silver 
table knives, cups and dishes, lamps and candlesticks. A 
warm, shivering glow seems to radiate from the hoard of 
the Marsh-dwellers (see The Hoard of the Marsh-dwellers).
The Hoard of the Marsh-dwellers
The treasure has been tainted by the long brooding of 
the greedy creatures, and each hero that gazes upon 
it must make a Corruption check, a DC 15 Wisdom 
saving throw. Those who fail are struck dumb by the 
sight of the treasure and are Stunned for 1 minute.
If the heroes manage to retrieve the hoard, it is 
worth at least 300** but every item recovered is 
automatically Touched by the Shadow.
The Nether Marches
The rolling hills of the Upper Marches eventually give 
way to the low, long plains of the Nether Marches as one 
passes south, a great broad valley bounded by the River 
Running to the south and the Redwater to the east. 
This is a land still almost untouched by the Bardings, 
for this is the true frontier of the Kingdom of Dale. The 
summers here are hot and often dry, but the winters 
are cold. At all times of the year violent storms can rise 
swiftly out of the East, and on the wide open plains there 
is nowhere to seek shelter. 
Centuries ago great armies from the East and Northmen 
belonging to kingdoms long past clashed on the plains 
of the Nether Marches. The songs of such battles are still 
sung in the halls of the North, and occasionally a traveller 
may stumble upon a rusty blade or broken bone amidst 
the grass. 
Combat Scenery: Ancient dykes, bracken, nettle banks, 
gentle slopes, scattered rocks, strong wind
Wildlife
The Nether Marches is a broad grassland, in truth the 
start of the wide steppes that run far into the East. The 
land is covered with seemingly endless fields of high 
green grasses, broken only by tussocks of coarse brown 
grass and shrub. What trees there are grow only in the 
Netherwood, which sits in a broad bend of the Redwater.

--- PAGE 77 ---
77
Large herds of wild horses roam the grasslands here. They 
were once tamed by the forerunners of the Éothéod, but 
they have long-since been left to run free. Other grazing 
animals wander the grassland; wild, long-horned cattle, 
sheep once-tame but long since escaped domestication, 
and great colonies of rabbits, whose burrows extend far 
underground. 
There is little place to hide in the Nether Marches, which 
favours the swift or the stealthy predator. Long-eared 
foxes and dusky-coloured lynxes prowl silently through 
the grass, while in the vast open skies falcons and sparrow 
hawks wheel high on wide gyres.
Inhabitants
The Nether Marches have ever been a frontier for more 
civilised lands; just as they now mark the south-eastern 
limits of Bard’s kingdom, over a thousand years ago they 
formed the northern borders of the King of Wilderland’s 
domain. While his kingdom was all but destroyed in the 
Great Plague of 1635 and, later, finished by armies from 
the East, some of his folk yet remain. They follow their 
herds of cattle across the plains or make their homes in 
small fishing villages along the Running River, but they 
owe fealty to no king. 
Trade is increasingly bountiful in these 
lands, as word spreads of the rebirth 
of Dale and Erebor. More often than 
not traders come up the Running River 
from Dorwinion, travelling to Esgaroth 
by boat. 
Once or twice a season large, gaudily 
coloured caravans pulled by oxen cross 
the steppes, laden with exotic cloths, 
spices and other goods. They stop at 
the largest settlement in the Nether 
Marches, the town of Riverstead, where 
they trade with intrepid merchants from 
Lake-town and Dale before returning 
East with iron and gold, stone and 
timber. 
On rare occasions, perhaps once in 
a generation, an entourage from the 
Woodland Realm will cross the Nether 
Marches on their way to Dorwinion. In such times the 
steppes come alive in the still summer nights to the sound 
of singing and merriment amongst the grass, and folk 
gather to listen and marvel at Elf-lights off in the distance. 
Such nights are remembered for decades after. 
Dorwinion
Dorwinion lies hundreds of miles downriver from 
Esgaroth, 
surrounded 
by 
the 
River 
Running 
bordering the inland Sea of Rhûn. It is a land of 
merchant princes and princesses, who trade far and 
wide; with the Elves in the West, Esgaroth in the 
North and even as far as Gondor in the South.
Dorwinion is particularly known for its vineyards, 
from which the finest of wines are made, much 
sought after in the courts of Men – and Elves. To 
the Northmen, the folk of Dorwinion seem exotic, 
with dusky complexions, deep, dark eyes, and clothes 
of brightly patterned cloth; ’tis no wonder that King 
Bard was so enchanted by his queen, Una.
Running River
Redwater
Upper Marches
n
Nether Marches
n
E
Riverstead
E
The Crossings of 
Celduin
E
The Netherwood
The Lands About the Mountain
Nether Marches

--- PAGE 78 ---
Lonely Mountain Region Guide
78
Notable Characters
Alduna
Alduna’s tongue is as fast as the river waters on which she 
regularly travels, peddling her wares along the Running 
River all the way from Dorwinion to the village, Celduin. 
She is the master of a small trading vessel, the Foam 
Dancer, and her choice in what wines to carry is second 
to none, so much so that some of Thranduil’s emissaries 
regularly seek her out personally. Alduna occasionally 
takes passengers, if they make a good offer, or she finds 
them “interesting”. 
Alduna is a heavy-set Dorwinion woman, with dusky skin 
and dark eyes. On first impression somewhat plain, her 
resonate laugh and her frequent smiles that light up her 
face ensure that she does not lack for suitors. She favours 
garments of bright blue and yellow chased with silver 
accents. 
Motivation: A deal is a deal, and a deal that benefits 
both parties is likely to lead to better business.
Expectations: +1 if the Company has strangers from far-
away lands in its midst; +3 if money or other valuables are 
part of the conversation; -2 if any of the heroes display a 
provincial attitude.
Kajus the Easterling
A merchant from the distant East, Kajus frequently makes 
his camp in a massive tent, filled with sumptuous cushions 
and magnificent carpets, on the edge of Riverstead. Kajus 
deals in spices and information, though the second trade 
has begun to bother him of late. 
He has been well paid over the years to pass sealed letters 
and occasionally news or other observations about his 
fellow merchants to couriers who bear a specific icon. Of 
late, the questions have grown disconcerting, and he has 
begun selectively holding back what he tells to those who 
quietly show him the mark of the White Hand. 
Kajus is an excellent source of information for many of the 
comings and goings of Riverstead. He either personally 
knows, or knows about, everyone that has ever docked at 
the town. Kajus has dark-mahogany coloured skin, with 
kindly brown eyes. He frequently drinks a bitter tea, for 
which many of his regular guests have acquired quite a 
taste. 
Motivation: I wish to understand the world or at least my 
place in it.
Expectations: +1 if the characters have something to offer 
Kajus; +3 if they somehow can answer his questions about

--- PAGE 79 ---
79
the White Hand and know to offer that information; -2 if 
they reveal that they are the agents of a Wizard — Kajus 
has begun to suspect that the Wise are manipulating the 
common folk for their own ends.
The Tracker Loore
A hunter of the Nether Marches, Loore regularly wanders 
over the wide grasslands, going wherever the wind or his 
mood takes him. A tracker without peer, there is nowhere 
on the steppes to flee where Loore cannot eventually 
follow. Loore keeps several birds of prey near him at 
all times, most often a beautiful grey hawk and a small 
prairie falcon. He also keeps a great secret, for Loore is a 
direct descendant of the ancient kings of old and he speaks 
the languages of all birds. 
Loore
Medium Human
STR 
17 (+3)
DEX 
11 (+0)
CON 
15 (+2)
INT 
13 (+1)
WIS 
18 (+4)
CHA 
8 (-1)
Armour Class 11 (Leather jerkin)
Hit Points 45 (7d8+14)
Speed 40 ft
Skills Animal Handling +6, Perception +8, Survival +8
Senses passive Perception 11
Languages Westron, The Language of Birds
Challenge 2 (450 XP)
Focused. Loore displays amazing discipline in combat. 
He has 3 Focus points, which he regains when he takes a 
short or long rest. He can use his bonus action and spend 
one Focus point on his turn to take the Dash, Disengage 
or Dodge action or to make another attack with his great 
spear.
Grey Hawk. In combat, Loore can use his bonus action to 
command his friend to aid him against all attackers. Until 
the start of his next turn, all attack rolls against him are 
at Disadvantage. The Grey Hawk is too quick and clever to 
be the target of any normal attack. 
Expert. Loore doubles his Proficiency Bonus for 
Perception and Survival (included above).
Actions
Great Spear. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 9 (1d12+3) piercing damage.
Most seasons, Loore trades fine rabbit pelts for what little 
sundries he requires, but he will occasionally take on 
commissions to lead others across the Nether Marches. 
Loore is a wiry man of indeterminate middle-age, with 
dark hair, shot through with strands of silver. His yellow-
green eyes are as sharp as those of his “bird-friends” 
for there is little that escapes Loore’s notice for long. To 
look at him, you would not suspect that he knows tidings 
of almost everything of any importance that happens 
between the rivers. 
Notable Places
The Running River
Pouring from out of the Front Gate of Erebor before 
tumbling around Dale, the River Running flows south 
through the Long Lake and past the eastern borders of 
Mirkwood, before turning south-east across the wide 
open plains of the Nether Marches where it is joined by 
the Redwater. From there it continues hundreds of miles 
until it reaches the inland Sea of Rhûn, beyond the edge 
of Rhovanion. 
Called ‘the Celduin’ by the Elves, the river has long been 
a vital trade route with the east, in particular between 
Esgaroth and Dorwinion. It is wide and fast flowing for 
most of its length, with few places to easily cross it; many 
who have sought to swim across have found themselves 
swiftly swept away by the cold waters. 
The Redwater
Named for the deep red of its waters that speak of iron-
rich soil washed out of the Iron Hills, the Redwater 
flows south strong and swift until it joins with the River 
Running, before flowing on to the Sea of Rhûn. It offers a 
swift route to southern lands, where both Dwarves of the 
Iron Hills and the Men of Dale trade with merchants from 
Dorwinion and farther East. 
Riverstead
At the confluence of the Running River and the Redwater 
lies a small town consisting of many docks, a tavern, 
and little else. A seemingly temporary settlement 
of far-travelled traders, the majority of Riverstead’s 
‘buildings’ are large tents that come and go with the 
seasons. In Riverstead, East and West meet, for here bold 
merchants from Lake-town and Dale trade to get the 
freshest or rarest wares from the East: the famed wines of 
Dorwinion, beautiful brightly coloured cloths, rare fruits 
and savoury spices. 
The Lands About the Mountain

--- PAGE 80 ---
Lonely Mountain Region Guide
80
The Clever Fish is Riverstead’s sole formal tavern (for 
a great deal of drinking goes on in various tents). Its 
proprietor, Ai, is a Dwarf, supposedly from the Iron 
Hills, but he neither answers, nor asks, questions of his 
customers. Here, far out on the edge of the Wild, deals are 
made regularly over the very best of libations. While many 
are simple contracts for goods, the Clever Fish has hosted 
many a spy or agent passing information onto others who 
will carry it far from here. 
The Crossings of Celduin
There has been a settlement by the River Running for as 
long as men have travelled this land, sited on one side 
of a narrow, arching stone bridge built by the Men of the 
South long ago. This bridge is the only place to easily 
cross the river; a fact the folk of Celduin know all too well 
– all who cross it are tolled heavily. The town takes its 
name from the Elven name for the river, and even today 
it is sometimes visited by the fair folk as they travel to 
Dorwinion, far downriver. 
Other river traders, less exotic than the Elves but no 
less vital, ply the River Running between Esgaroth and 
Dorwinion far more regularly than they once did. While 
the Master of Celduin cannot toll them for using the bridge, 
he does still charge them to tie up at the quays. For all its 
trade, the Crossings of Celduin remains in a precarious 
position; it is far from civilisation, and should servants of 
the Enemy seek to force a crossing here there is little the 
townsfolk could do to stop them. While Erik, the Master of 
Celduin, does his best to resist the influence of Dale, he is 
not averse to enticing willing companies of adventurers to 
operate out of his town, in the hope of gaining something 
of their protection. 
The Crossings of Celduin is described in more detail on 
page 116 of Wilderland Adventures. 
The Netherwood
On the western borders of the Nether Marches is a stretch 
of woodland where the trees seem unmoved by the breeze. 
Many birds roost under its eaves, but no beast on four (or 
two!) legs is ever seen coming out of it, nor prowling its 
edges. Travellers following the river to the Iron Hills prefer 
not to find refuge under the boughs of the forest, as stories 
tell of cold eyes staring out of the darkness of the wood. 
Those few who entered the Netherwood have spoken of 
a lingering sense of unease, as if the woodland itself was 
sitting in quiet madness, and of a broken ring of stones 
placed there not by the hands of Men. In these darkening 
days, stories tell of those who fled to the farthest reaches 
of their land from Smaug the Golden, only to perish alone 
and mad within the wood.

--- PAGE 81 ---
81
CONCERNING
- DRAGONS -
“My armour is like tenfold shields, my teeth are 
swords, my claws spears, the shock of my tail 
a thunderbolt, my wings a hurricane, and my 
breath death!”
There is no one among the Free Folk who has not heard 
tales of the Great Worms. Even the sheltered Hobbits of the 
Shire know a thing or two about Dragons: vast serpents 
with terrible sharp claws and iron scales, who breathe 
fire and hoard gold. Be careful if you should ever speak 
to one, the stories go, for they are wicked and cunning. 
While most of that is true, it does not even begin to scratch 
the surface of what Dragons are… 
The Great Enemy, Morgoth, bred the first Great Dragons 
in the pits of his northern fortress, Thangorodrim, during 
the First Age. They were meant to be unleashed as a 
bane upon the Elves, Dwarves and Men, in Morgoth’s 
endless war for domination over all others. Whence they 
first came, none can say. Perhaps Morgoth brought their 
ancestors up from deep beneath the earth or from out of 
the trenches of the sea. 
Wherever they began originally, the Great Dragons 
became far more than mere monsters; the most learned 
among the Wise believe that Morgoth summoned terrible 
spirits of fire from the timeless Void and bound them 
into the Dragons’ flesh. Others hold that he imbued the 
gigantic creatures with some portion of his own fiery will, 
making them living vessels of his malice. 
Whatever the truth, it became clear from the onset that 
Morgoth had, perhaps, wrought them too well or far 
too like himself, for the malevolence of the firstborn, the 
Father of Dragons, was so great that he was beyond the 
Enemy’s control and he did not always heed what his 
creator demanded of him.
The Great Worms
In the beginning, the Father of Dragons and others of his 
brood resembled gigantic serpents, with clawed limbs. It 
was only later, during the final battle of the First Age, that 
Morgoth perfected his beasts, and sent forth Dragons with 
wings. When the Dark Lord was defeated and the world 
was broken, many of the Great Worms were slain. But 
enough of them survived to carry on, sleeping long ages 
beneath the mountains, emerging to slay one another and 
breed in the Northern Wastes. 
Eventually, some Great Worms slipped south, to the 
region now known as the Withered Heath. There, the 
Great Dragons have endured the long millennia since 
their creation, even though the long sleep has diminished 
many of them and no few have fallen to famous heroes. 
Most Dragons have at least four limbs, though there have 
always been rumours of some with more, and a few with 
none, these being, perhaps, the origins of sea serpents. 
Otherwise their features vary, depending on their breed. 
The Dragons of the line of Ancalagon the Black, for example, 
of whom Smaug the Golden was a distant descendant, 
have massive wings and the ability to breathe fire; those 
of the line of Scatha have long, serpentine bodies; while 
those that plagued the Dwarf-holds of the Grey Mountains 
in great numbers are usually wingless and can spit jets 
of bitterly cold poisonous fumes. Based on these differing 
characteristics, scholars and lore-masters distinguish 
between at least three separate breeds: Cold-drakes, Fire-
drakes, and Long-worms. 
Despite their diversified exterior appearance though, all 
Great Dragons share many common features, and above 
all is the fact that while the might of their bodies may seem 
great and terrible, their true power resides rather in the 
evil spirit or essence that dwells within them. It is thanks to 
this inner strength that their baleful gaze, or their Dragon-
fire or poisonous breath can harm even incorporeal 
beings like wraiths or ghosts, or destroy materials thought 
imperishable, such as magically wrought artefacts (of 
the seven Dwarven Rings of Power, it is said several were 
consumed by Dragon-fire). 
All Dragons can sleep for long centuries. In fact, they enter 
a state of lethargy when prey sufficient for their great 
hunger is scarce. If they slumber for too long, their power 
can diminish, leading to a decrease in size and power, but 
no Dragon has ever died of old age. In their sleep, Great 
Worms are still somewhat aware of the world about them, 
Concerning Dragons

--- PAGE 82 ---
Lonely Mountain Region Guide
82
dreaming strange Dragon-dreams that give them glimpses 
of the lands beyond their lairs and events of import in the 
wide world. They can even sleep with one eye half open, if 
they have a need. When they awaken, either because they 
have been disturbed by intruders entering their lair, or by 
some ill-boding Dragon-dream, the Great Worms tend to 
gorge themselves to restore their lost strength as soon as 
possible, eating whole flocks of livestock or a village worth 
of people, if they can. 
Not even the wisest lore-master can say why Dragons 
hoard gold and other precious things; they seem to have 
no practical use for them, nor do they generally care for 
skilled craft over gaudy works (although they always seem 
to know what even the least item in their hoard is worth). 
It is true that the gems of Smaug’s trove eventually gave 
him a wondrous diamond waistcoat after long years 
spent sleeping on them, but few Great Worms ever had 
a hoard like Smaug’s, and yet none of them can resist the 
lure of plunder or the scent of gold. Perhaps they enjoy the 
thought that they cause pain and envy in others with their 
treasures; mayhap their greed is but an echo of Morgoth’s 
lust for the Silmarils. 
Dragons have always lived in the North; none have been 
seen in the south, even when they were far less rare than 
they are at the end of the Third Age. Many sages have offered 
up reasons why, but one thought is considered likely to be 
closest to the mark: Dragons do not suffer bondage gladly. 
To pass south is to risk drawing the attention of Mordor; 
having suffered the chains of Morgoth, they will not risk 
the chains of Sauron.
Hatching a Dragon
There were lots of Dragons in the North in those days...
In Adventures in Middle-earth, Great Worms should be 
unique monsters, and confronting one should be the 
climax of an entire campaign. A company of heroes might 
spend many long years studying a Dragon, staking out its 
lair, attempting to glean some sign of weakness to exploit, 
or searching for a weapon that might give them some 
small advantage. A Dragon is not idly slain and its hoard 
easily looted; facing one will likely be the highlight of a 
hero’s entire adventuring career – or the end of it. 
The following sections contain rules and guidelines 
for a Loremaster to create their own Dragon. This level 
of customisation is well suited to the fact that a Great 
Worm should be a major adversary in a campaign. 
When deciding to include a Dragon in his campaign, the 
Loremaster might also like to turn their attention to their 
Magical Treasure Index (see Rivendell, page 97, as well

--- PAGE 83 ---
83
as page 96 onwards of this chapter), perhaps including 
within it some weapon or armour for the companions 
to employ in the final, climactic fight. After these rules, 
several ready-made Dragons are also included to offer 
inspiration and ideas when creating your own Great 
Worm. 
The breeding of Dragons is a formidable task, especially 
as each Dragon is an individual. Any Great Worm will 
make a strong impact on your Adventures in Middle-earth 
game, and each step along the way should be carefully 
considered. Dragons possess not only considerable 
physical strength and powerful abilities but they also 
have a cunning evil about them and might manipulate 
their foes before devouring them. There are five steps to 
the process:
•	
Step 1: Choose Age and Breed. The Loremaster 
determines the attribute values and baseline 
Challenge Rating for the Dragon.
•	
Step 2: Define Personality. The LM then sets 
Motivation, Expectations and roleplaying quirks.
•	
Step 3: Choose Actions and Features. The LM 
selects a number of special powers for the Dragon 
and completes the entries for the Dragon’s stat block.
•	
Step 4: Lair and Hoard. For older Dragons, the LM 
creates a place of safety where the Dragon stores its 
treasure and occasionally takes its rest. 
•	
Step 5: Name and Backstory. The final step allows 
the LM to round out the Dragon’s history and define 
its goals in the campaign.
The Long Sleep of Dragons
While both Raenar and the Forest Dragon are used 
as examples for this process, each has appeared before 
in Adventures in Middle-earth. In those releases, the 
Dragons had recently awoken from a slumber that 
might have lasted centuries and had not yet regained 
their full stature and abilities. 
The examples in this chapter detail each Dragon as 
it is at the height of its majesty, after it has eaten 
its fill and disposed of any troublesome heroes that 
sought to slay it.
Step 1: Choose Age and Breed
The life of Dragons is long and slow, and they get more 
powerful as they get older. When they are Dragonets 
new from the shell they are tender and vulnerable, and 
they seldom leave their place of birth before their hide 
hardens. It takes decades for them to reach adulthood, 
if not centuries, and many centuries more for them to be 
considered old, at the peak of their strength and power. 
Age
A Dragon’s age determines its starting attribute values, 
which will also be modified by its breed. It also determines 
their Natural Armour. See the table below.
Age
Strength
Dexterity
Constitution
Intelligence
Wisdom
Charisma
Natural 
Armour
Dragonet
16
18
16
14
12
12
16
Young
18
20
18
14
13
14
17
Full-Grown
22
20
20
15
14
16
19
Venerable
24
18
22
15
15
18
19
Ancient
28
16
24
17
17
20
21*
*The characteristics given above for an Ancient Dragon consider a specimen that has awoken recently, after a long period 
of slumber, and are considered minimums. The power of a fully-awakened old Great Dragon that has had enough time and 
sufficient store of victims to feed to full growth are left to the Loremaster, but should be appropriately monstrous.
Concerning Dragons

--- PAGE 84 ---
Lonely Mountain Region Guide
84
Breed
This choice defines the bloodline of the creature you are 
creating. Is your Great Worm a Fire-drake descended from 
Ancalagon the Black, like Smaug the Terrible? Or is it of 
the line of Scatha, a great Long-worm? Perhaps it is a Cold-
drake, like Raenar, the slayer of Dáin the First? This choice is 
going to affect the appearance of the creature, its capability 
for flight, modify its basic attributes and the range of special 
features it can choose from (see Step 3), and define the skills 
and saving throws with which it is usually proficient. 
Cold-drakes
Some among the Wise say that Cold-drake is but a Fire-
drake whose fire has died out over the long centuries. 
Others say that they are the original creations of Morgoth 
made in forms both winged and wingless, and given 
powerful limbs and long tails. Most of them can spit 
poison at their foes, or crush them with their fangs and 
claws. Raenar, the Scourge of the North is a great Cold-
drake (see Wilderland Adventures, page 137).
Ability Scores: Constitution +2, Wisdom -2
Saving Throws: Constitution, Intelligence, Wisdom
Skills: History, Intimidation, Perception
Speed: 30 ft
Raenar is a Venerable Cold-drake. His attributes are: 
Strength 24, Dexterity 18, Constitution 24, Intelligence 15, 
Wisdom 13, Charisma 18. He is proficient in Constitution, 
Intelligence and Wisdom saving throws and the History, 
Intimidation and Perception skills.
Fire-drakes
Held by many to be the mightiest of the Great Dragons, 
Fire-drakes are probably the most ancient breed, their line 
going back to the Great Worm of Angband. Rarely winged, 
when they fly they truly are a bane upon their enemies, 
as Smaug the Terrible demonstrated when he descended 
from the North. Somewhat slower-going and ponderous 
than the other breeds, fire burns beneath their scales and 
they can belch forth jets of searing flame. 
Ability Scores: Strength +2, Dexterity -2, Constitution 
+2, Wisdom -2, Charisma +2
Saving Throws: Constitution, Wisdom, Charisma
Skills: Lore, Perception, Riddle
Speed: 20 ft
Lytegan is a Young Fire-drake. She has Strength 20, 
Dexterity 18, Constitution 18, Intelligence 14, Wisdom 11 
and Charisma 16.
Long-worms
Akin to Cold-drakes, Long-worms are huge, serpentine 
creatures, with short limbs and long necks and tails. No 
record exists of a winged Long-worm, and most seem 
to be furtive creatures, slithering stealthily out of their 
subterranean lairs to hunt for their prey. If provoked or 
cornered, a Long-worm may quickly abandon its caution, 
and unleash its fury to destroy everything in sight with its 
lashing tail and powerful jaws. Scatha, the Great Dragon 
of Ered Mithrin and Bane of the Northmen, was a Long-
worm.
Ability Scores: Strength +2, Dexterity +2, Intelligence -2, 
Charisma -2
Saving Throws: Strength, Dexterity, Constitution
Skills: Athletics, Stealth, Survival
Speed: 30 ft, Climb 30 ft
The Forest Dragon is a Full-grown Long-worm. She 
starts with Strength 24, Dexterity 22, Constitution 20, 
Intelligence 13, Wisdom 14 and Charisma 14.
Final Customisation
Every worm is unique and not entirely defined by its age 
and breed. Raise two of the Dragon’s attributes by 2 and 
then improve any attribute by 1. Instead of raising an 
attribute by 2, you can instead thicken the Dragon’s hide 
and increase its Natural Armour by 1. Furthermore, most 
Dragons have darkvision to 60 ft or more and know a 
variety of languages (your choice).
Raenar the Venerable Cold-Drake trades in both 
opportunities to raise an attribute by 2 and increases his 
Armour Class to 21 instead. He then raises his Wisdom 
to 14.
 
Lytegan decides to increase her Armour Class by 1 (to 18) 
and puts both other advances into Strength, ending up 
with a mighty 23.
 
The Forest Dragon advances her Wisdom and Charisma 
by 2 each and her Intelligence by 1.

--- PAGE 85 ---
85
Dragon Aging
The eldest Dragons are uncountably ancient and even 
a Young Dragon may take centuries to become Full 
Grown. If you wish your heroes to meet a Dragon 
at two different age categories, there are likely to 
be many, many Fellowship phases between the two 
encounters. However, if such a thing happens, simply 
compare the two entries on the age table and modify 
each stat by the difference in the two lines.
For example, when Lytegan is Full-Grown, she will 
advance her Strength by 4 (to 27), her Constitution 
and Charisma by 2 each, and her Intelligence and 
Wisdom by 1. She will also gain more Draconic 
abilities (see Step 3) which might affect both her 
Armour Class and attacks.
Step 2: Define Personality
Dragons have deep and complex personalities, especially 
older ones. They are invariably wicked and greedy, 
but all develop their own peculiar feeding habits and 
idiosyncrasies, dislikes and preferences. In many ways 
they can be compared to very old men or women who 
have lived isolated lives and become cantankerous and 
set in their ways. Long-worms are known for their caution 
and guile, whilst Cold-drakes develop strong pride and 
patience as they often outlive their enemies. Though all 
breeds are known for their lust, greed and cunning these 
dark qualities are at their greatest in the evil hearts of the 
Fire-drakes.
By taking the time to define the personality and character 
of your Dragon – just as you would for any other character 
or villain in your campaign – you can create a much more 
memorable encounter when the company finally meets it. 
Before they ever encounter it face to face, the Company 
might already know something of a Dragon’s character, 
for its personality is likely to affect the manner in which it 
hunts and the place in which it has made its lair. 
To define the personality of your Great Worm, you should 
also select its Motivation, one or more positive Expectations 
and one or more negative Expectations. To round out its 
personality, select one or two Distinctive Qualities from 
those given on pages 122-142 in the Adventures in Middle-
earth Player’s Guide. The following traits are particularly 
suitable for a Dragon to possess: Bold, Cautious, Clever, 
Cunning, Curious, Determined, Eager, Elusive, Energetic, 
Lordly, Patient, Proud, Reckless, Secretive, Suspicious, 
Vengeful, Wary, Wilful, Wrathful. While some traits 
naturally lend themselves to the personality of a Dragon 
more than others, give some consideration to less obvious 
traits. What might a True-hearted or Merciful Dragon 
be like, for example? Rare, one could certainly say, but 
certainly memorable. 
Motivation 
1
I hold my freedom dearest of all. Any who would 
rob me of it would feel my wrath.
2
I esteem my hoard above any other splendor 
in Middle-earth. Any who would treat with me 
must be generous.
3
My reputation is most important. My name 
should chill hearts and make stout warriors 
shiver! 
4
Even more than gold, I value my progeny. Those 
who would slay my children will face my fury.
5
I am more clever than any other creature, and 
will gladly prove it. Duel me in a battle of wits 
and I will be the victor.
6
Nothing in this world can quench the fire that 
burns inside. I am always hungry.
Concerning Dragons

--- PAGE 86 ---
Lonely Mountain Region Guide
86
Positive Expectations
1
Flattery is expected. But well-executed flattery 
will keep you alive a little longer.
2
Good manners are essential. Whenever feasible, 
one should try to eat the rude first.
3
Riddles are a way for me to prove my cleverness. 
Those who challenge me are worthy to speak with 
me.
4
You are correct to be generous. Place your gifts 
over there, next to the bones of my last visitors.
5
We can discuss matters over dinner. Oh? You in­
tended that I eat the cow and not the Dwarf? Very 
well, dessert can wait.
6
I know the scent of Dwarf, Elf and Man, but there 
is a strange air here and I would know more. 
(Most Dragons have never met a Hobbit before 
or might otherwise become intrigued by another 
equally strange and unfamiliar thing.)
Negative Expectations
1
Never refuse to answer one of my questions.
2
Thieves and tricksters will not be tolerated.
3
You are tiny and insignificant, not worthy of 
judging me! (Every Dragon believes in its heart 
that they are the greatest specimen of their kind.)
4
You are sadly misinformed and should recognise 
my greater knowledge. (To contradict a Dragon 
or suggest it is wrong in any way is to invite 
death.)
5
You are a wretched folk, surely you do not speak 
for the whole company? (Even the most open-
minded Dragon will not be happy with an Elf or 
Dwarf as the Company’s speaker.)
6
YOU DARE DEFY ME? (Dragons do not take well 
to any threats from their audience.)
Step 3: Choose Actions and Features
A Dragon’s arsenal of weapons is extensive, and though 
each may differ widely based on breed, they all share 
deadly common traits determined by their stature. 
Specific Draconic Features can be chosen later in this 
section for your worm. The table opposite gives the 
characteristics for a Dragon of each age.
Size
This entry gives the size category for the Dragon. Keep this 
in mind as you determine where it makes its lair and how 
it interacts with its environment.
Both The Forest Dragon and Raenar are Huge creatures, 
while Lytegan is Large.
Hit Points
This is the average starting amount of hit points for 
the Dragon, which is then modified by its Constitution 
modifier. Multiply the number of Hit Dice by the Dragon’s 
Constitution modifier, then add that value to the 
corresponding Hit Points value in the Characteristics 
table.
As a Venerable Dragon, Raenar starts with 136 hit points. 
He has 21 hit dice and a Constitution modifier of +7 
for 147 additional hit points. Raenar has a total of 283 
(21d12+147) hit points.
Proficiency Bonus
The Dragon’s Proficiency Bonus affects its attack bonus, 
saving throws, skills, and certain special features.
Bite
A Dragon can make a Bite attack as an action. The Bite 
attack has a reach of 10 ft and deals piercing damage. 
The attack modifier for this attack is equal to the Dragon’s 
Proficiency Bonus plus their Strength or Dexterity modifier 
(whichever is higher). The damage dealt is equal to the 
value given in the Characteristics table plus the ability 
score modifier of the ability used to make the attack. 
Lytegan’s Strength is 23 (+6) and her Proficiency Bonus is 
+3. Thus her Bite attack has a +9 attack modifier and does 
15 (2d8+6) piercing damage.

--- PAGE 87 ---
87
Rend
A Dragon can make a Rend attack as an action. The Rend 
attack has a reach of 10 ft and deals slashing damage. 
The attack modifier for this attack is equal to the Dragon’s 
Proficiency Bonus plus their Strength modifier. The damage 
dealt is equal to the value given in the Characteristics 
table plus the Dragons Strength modifier.
The Forest Dragon’s Strength is 24 (+7) and her Proficiency 
Bonus is +4. Her Rend attack has a +11 attack modifier 
and does 16 (2d8+7) slashing damage. 
Tail-Lash
A Full-Grown Dragon (or older) can make a Tail-Lash 
attack as an action. The Tail-Lash attack has a reach of 
10 ft and deals bludgeoning damage. The attack modifier 
for this attack is equal to the Dragon’s Proficiency Bonus 
plus their Strength or Dexterity modifier (whichever is 
higher). The damage dealt is equal to the value given in 
the Characteristics table plus the ability score modifier 
of the ability used to make the attack. If the target is Large 
or smaller, it must succeed on a Strength saving throw (DC 
8 + the Dragon’s Proficiency Bonus + its Strength modifier) 
or be knocked prone. 
Raenar also has a Strength of 24 (+7) but a Proficiency 
Bonus of +5. His Tail-Lash attack has a +12 attack modifier 
and does 13 (1d12+7) bludgeoning damage to the target 
in addition to knocking them Prone. 
Features
Each Dragon has a certain number of Features, based on 
its age. The Loremaster can use these Features to give a 
Dragon access to unique powers and traits or allow them 
to take additional actions in combat. Each Dragon is 
required to take the Weak Spot Feature, which does not 
count towards its total number of Features. If the Dragon 
takes one of the Broken, Craven or Scarred Features, it 
may take another Feature at the same time for no extra 
cost. You may only do this once. 
Certain Features are Deadly and count as two Features 
for calculation purposes. If you choose a Feature marked 
as Legendary it does not count towards the total but you 
must take the Legendary Feature once for each indicated 
Feature. You may also select Legendary to perform a 
basic attack action (Bite, Rend, Tail-Lash) as well, see 
page 90. 
You can take each Feature only once, with the exception 
of Legendary and Multiattack (see page 90). Some 
Features are only available to certain Breeds (Acid-bile 
has the requirement Cold-drakes only, for example). The 
following section provides a listing and explanation of all 
Features.
To begin, Raenar must take the Weak Spot feature. He 
then selects Horrible Strength, Multiattack and Draconic 
Resistance, for a total of 3 Features). He takes the Legendary 
Characteristics by Dragon Age
Age
Size
Hit Points
Proficiency 
Bonus
Bite
Rend
Tail-Lash
Features
Challenge 
Rating
Dragonet
Medium
27 (6d8)
+2
1d8
2d4
—
3
3
Young
Large
66 
(12d10)
+3
2d8
2d6
—
5
6
Full-Grown
Huge
117 
(18d12)
+4
3d8
2d8
1d12
7
12
Venerable
Huge
136 
(21d12)
+5
4d8
2d10
1d12
9
15
Ancient
Gargantuan
250 
(24d20)
+7
5d8
2d12
1d20
13
21
Concerning Dragons

--- PAGE 88 ---
Lonely Mountain Region Guide
88
feature twice, bringing his total features to 5. Lastly, he 
selects Mesmerise and Poison Blast, both of which are 
Deadly and count as 2 Features each.This brings his total 
abilities to 9.
Challenge Rating
This is the default Challenge rating for a Dragon of this 
age category. Loremasters might wish to adjust this 
depending on the exact Features selected, or if they reduce 
or increase the total number of Features or other values 
for the Dragon. 
In Raenar’s first appearance he was half-starved and stiff 
from his long sleep. His Constitution was reduced and 
the reach of some of his melee attacks was restricted. His 
Challenge rating was reduced to 14 to account for these 
modifications.
 
A Foe Beyond Any of You
Most of the monsters presented in the Loremaster’s 
Guide and subsequent publications have ‘room to grow’ 
included in their statlines — it’s expected that LMs 
might add some extra features to tweak the monster 
to present a new and exciting challenge for their 
Company (though if your group is more academic in 
nature, even the most common Orc, Warg or Troll 
might be a suitable challenge). However, Dragons 
don’t fit into this general rule — they are likely to 
feature as the primary antagonist of a campaign 
and the heroes might spend much time and effort in 
preparing themselves for any encounter with a Great 
Worm. Loremasters should carefully foreshadow the 
deadly powers of a Dragon and, if their Company 
has an early meeting with such a foe, perhaps provide 
a graceful way to escape to fight another day.
Draconic Features
The following Features are the most suitable for Dragons. 
Some of these Features have appeared in other Adventures 
in Middle-earth products and are repeated here for 
convenience, others are wholly new and unique to the 
Great Worms. Some Features have requirements, such 
as the Dragon being of a particular breed or possessing 
another Feature. Requirements are listed in parentheses 
next to the Feature name. You can add other features not 
listed here to your Dragon if it fits your conception of your 
Great Worm.
Acid-bile (Deadly, Cold-drakes only). Some of the most 
ancient of the Cold-drakes have particularly potent breath 
weapons. As an action, the Dragon exhales acidic bile in 5 
ft wide line, with a length equal to 10 ft times the Dragon’s 
Proficiency Bonus. Each creature in that line must make a 
Dexterity saving throw (DC 13 + the Dragon’s Proficiency 
Bonus) taking 3d6 acid damage per point of its Proficiency 
Bonus on a failed save, and half as much damage on a 
successful one. 
For example, a Dragon who takes this Feature and has a 
Proficiency Bonus of +4 would have an Acid-bile attack 
that has a 5 ft wide line, and 40 ft long. Each creature in 
the area of effect must make a DC 17 Dexterity saving 
throw, taking 42 (12d6) acid damage on a failed saving 
throw or half as much on a successful one.
Armour of Tenfold Shields (Deadly). There is perhaps 
nothing stronger, nor more impervious than Dragon-hide. 
This Dragon is immune to all non-magical piercing and 
slashing damage.
Baleful Gaze. As a reaction, when a creature the Dragon 
can see makes an ability check, the Dragon may impose 
disadvantage on the roll. The creature must be able to see 
the Dragon and the Dragon must not be Incapacitated for 
this effect to apply.
Blazing Wrath (Fire-drakes only, requires Fire 
Breath). Add 3 ft times its Proficiency Bonus to the 
Dragon’s cone size for its Fire Breath attack and increase 
the damage of their Fire Breath by 1d6 per point of 
Proficiency Bonus. 
Lytegan has a Proficiency Bonus of +3. If she takes this 
Feature, her Fire Breath increases to a 39 ft cone and does 
a total of 42 (12d6) fire damage.
Broken. This Dragon has suffered some calamitous 
inequity in the past and is now more cautious than its 
brethren. Pick an environmental feature or common 
occurrence (for example fire, water, Dwarves wielding

--- PAGE 89 ---
89
axes, Orcs bearing iron chains, etc.). While within 10 ft 
of the source, the Dragon has Disadvantage on its attack 
rolls.
Craven. If the Dragon starts its turn with less than half 
its total hit points, it must make a DC 10 Wisdom saving 
throw. On a failure, it becomes Frightened and must 
take the Dash or Disengage action to move away from 
any enemies. If movement is impossible, it must take the 
Dodge action instead.
Crushing Tail-Grip (Long-worms only). A Long-worm 
with this Feature can automatically Grapple a creature it 
hits with its Tail-Lash attack instead of knocking the target 
Prone (DC 10 + the Long-worm’s Strength modifier to 
escape). If the Long-worm has Grappled a creature, it can 
use an action on subsequent turns to crush the Grappled 
creature with its tail. The damage inflicted by this attack is 
equal to the Dragon’s Tail-Lash damage.
Deadly Tail Grip (Long-worms only, Legendary, 
requires Crushing Tail-Grip). A Long-worm with this 
Feature can use a Legendary action to inflict damage equal 
to its Tail-Lash damage to a creature it has Grappled. 
Draconic Resistance (Recharge 5-6). Dragons are 
notoriously tough and free-willed. As a reaction, if the 
Dragon fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed 
instead.
Frightful Presence. Each creature of the Dragon’s choice 
that is aware of it and within 20 ft times the Dragon’s 
Proficiency Bonus must succeed on a Wisdom saving 
throw or become Frightened for 1 minute (DC 13 + the 
Dragon’s Proficiency Bonus). A creature can repeat the 
saving throw and the end of each of its turns, ending the 
effect on itself on a success. If a creature’s saving throw is 
successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune 
to the Dragon’s Frightful Presence for the next 24 hours.
Fell Speed. The Dragon may take a bonus action to 
Disengage and move up to its speed towards an enemy it 
can see.
Fire Breath (Deadly, Fire-drakes only, Recharge 5-6). 
As an action, the Dragon exhales fire in a cone equal to 
10 ft times its Proficiency Bonus. Each creature in the area 
must make a Dexterity saving throw (DC 13 + the Dragon’s 
Proficiency Bonus), taking 3d6 fire damage per point of 
its Proficiency Bonus on a failed save, or half as much 
damage on a successful one. 
Lytegan has a Proficiency Bonus of +3. Her Fire Breath 
attack affects an area in a 30 ft cone. Each creature in the 
area of effect must make a DC 16 Dexterity saving throw, 
taking 31 (9d6) fire damage on a failed saving throw, or 
half as much on a successful one.
Fleet of Wing (Requires Winged). This Dragon is a 
particularly fast flyer. Add 30 ft of movement to its flying 
speed.
Gem Waistcoat (Recharge 5-6). The mightiest of Dragons 
find a new use for their vast hoard. As they slumber for 
centuries upon a mound of gems, these priceless artefacts 
become embedded in their soft underbellies. When a 
Dragon is the target of an opportunity attack due to 
Concerning Dragons

--- PAGE 90 ---
Lonely Mountain Region Guide
90
exposing its Weak Spot, it can use its reaction to negate 
the damage from a single attack.
Gimlet Eyed. The Dragon inflicts +2 damage on all 
damage rolls made at night or underground.
Hatred (Elves or Dwarves) (Recharge 5-6). Dragons 
have long memories and might bear animosity to the kin 
of those it has fought before. As a bonus action, the Dragon 
gains Advantage on attack rolls against the specified 
culture until the start of its next turn.
Horrible Strength (Cold-drakes and Long-worms 
only). Some Dragon-kind rely on brute strength more than 
others of their kind. If this Dragon makes a successful melee 
attack, it may use its bonus action to cause additional 
damage equal to its Strength modifier. This additional 
damage is of the same type as the original attack.
Legendary. If you take this Feature, the Dragon gains 
1 Legendary action (up to a maximum of 3). When you 
take this Feature, you add one of the Dragon’s basic attack 
actions, or a Feature that requires an action or reaction to 
the Dragon’s list of Legendary actions. Using a Legendary 
action as a reaction does not consume the Dragon’s 
normal reaction. Spent Legendary actions and reactions 
are regained at the start of the Dragon’s turn.
For example, a Dragon with the Deadly Tail Grip Feature 
must also take the Legendary Feature at least once, 
selecting Deadly Tail Grip. The Dragon can now use that 
Feature as a Legendary action. Taking the Legendary 
Feature a second time allows you to select a basic attack, 
such as Bite or Rend, or another Feature that uses the 
Dragon’s action or reaction and add it to the Dragon’s 
list of Legendary actions. The Dragon would then have 2 
Legendary actions, which it can use for either ability.
Mesmerise (Deadly). As an action, the Dragon targets 
one creature it can see within 30 ft of it. If the target can 
see the Dragon, it must make a Wisdom saving throw or be 
Charmed by it (DC 13 + the Dragon’s Proficiency Bonus). 
Each time the Dragon or its allies does anything harmful 
to the target, it can repeat the saving throw, ending the 
effect on a success. Otherwise, the effect lasts 24 hours or 
until the Dragon leaves the area, is slain or takes a bonus 
action to end the effect.
Multiattack. The Dragon can make two basic attacks 
(Bite, Rend or Tail-Lash) with a single action. If you 
select Multiattack a second time, the Dragon makes three 
basic attacks with its action. You cannot select this Feature 
more than twice.
Noxious Vapours (Deadly, Recharge 4-6). As an action, 
the Dragon exhales a thick cloud of foul fumes in a cone 
equal to 5 ft times its Proficiency Bonus. Each creature 
within the cone must make a Constitution saving throw 
(DC 13 + the Dragon’s Proficiency Bonus). On a failure, a 
creature is Blinded and Poisoned for 1d4+1 rounds. On a 
success the target is Poisoned for 1d4+1 rounds. 
Raenar has a Proficiency Bonus of +5. If he takes this 
ability, the attack would have a 25 ft cone and a DC 18 
Constitution saving throw.
Piercing Words (Legendary). As a Legendary action, the 
Dragon can force a hidden creature to make a Wisdom 
saving throw (DC 15 + the Dragon’s Proficiency Bonus). 
On a failure, the creature reveals itself to the Dragon. The 
Dragon must be able to infer the presence of the creature 
in some way (for example, it can hear the creature or it 
was in sight recently) in order to use this ability.
Poison Blast (Cold-drakes only, Deadly, Recharge 3-6). 
As an action, the Dragon spits forth a jet of poisonous bile 
in a cone equal to 10 ft times its Proficiency Bonus. Each 
creature in that area must make a Dexterity saving throw 
(DC 13 + the Dragon’s Proficiency Bonus), taking 1d4+5 
poison damage per point of its Proficiency Bonus and is 
Poisoned for 2d4 rounds on a failed save. On a success 
it takes half damage and is Poisoned for 1d4 rounds on a 
successful one. 
Raenar has a Proficiency Bonus of +5. His Poison Blast is a 
50-ft cone. Each creature in the area of effect must make a 
DC 18 Dexterity saving throw, taking 37 (5d4+25) poison 
damage and becoming Poisoned for 2d4 rounds on a 
failed saving throw. A successful saving throw reduces the 
damage by half, and the target is Poisoned for only 1d4 
rounds.
Region-dweller (Long-worms only, Recharge 5-6). 
These Dragons spend long years exploring every nook and 
cranny of their chosen territory, such as the desolation

--- PAGE 91 ---
91
of the Waste or the broken lands of the Withered Heath. 
Choose a region of Middle-earth. As long as they are 
in their region, they gain half-cover from any combat 
scenery, even if the feature would not normally provide it.
Savage Assault. When the Dragon rolls a natural 18 or 
19, it may make an additional melee attack against the 
same opponent as a bonus action.
Scaly Hide (cannot take Tough Hide). This Dragon’s 
tough 
scales 
provide 
resistance 
to 
non-magical 
bludgeoning and piercing damage.
Sinister Speech (Deadly). As an action, the Dragon 
can choose to address its enemies with evil words. 
Any intelligent creature that can hear the Dragon and 
understand it must make a Wisdom saving throw (DC 13 
+ the Dragon’s Proficiency Bonus) or suffer Disadvantage 
when attacking the Dragon. A creature affected by this 
Feature can repeat the saving throw at the end of its turn, 
ending the effect on a success.
Smiting Malice (Deadly, Recharge 5-6). Some of the 
most ancient Dragons have such a force of will that they 
can overwhelm lesser creatures with just a glance. As an 
action, the Dragon can target a creature within 120 ft of it 
that can see it. The creature must succeed on a Charisma 
saving throw (DC 15 + the Dragon’s Proficiency Bonus) or 
become Paralysed. At the end of the creature’s turn it can 
repeat the saving throw, ending the effect on a success.
Snake-like Speed. (Recharge 5-6). This Dragon is adept 
at avoiding injury and can use its reaction to halve the 
damage on an attack that it is aware of.
Stench. Any creature other than the Dragon that starts 
its turn within 5 ft of the Dragon must succeed on a 
Constitution saving throw or be Poisoned until the start of 
its next turn (DC 13 + the Dragon’s Proficiency Bonus). On 
a success, the creature is immune to the Dragon’s Stench 
for 1 hour.
Thing of Terror (1/day). The Dragon can use its bonus 
action to rear up and display its full strength. Each creature 
within 60 ft of the Dragon that can see it must make a 
Wisdom saving throw (DC 15 + the Dragon’s Proficiency 
Bonus) or be Frightened of it until the end of its next turn.
Tough Hide (cannot take Scaly Hide). The Dragon has 
thick layers of scaly skin. It is resistant to non-magical 
bludgeoning and slashing damage.
Wing Attack (Legendary, requires Winged). As a 
Legendary action, the Dragon beats its wings. Each 
creature within 15 ft of it must make a Dexterity saving 
throw (DC 13 + the Dragon’s Proficiency Bonus) or take 
bludgeoning damage (2d6 + the Dragon’s Strength 
modifier) and be knocked Prone. The Dragon can then fly 
up to half its flying speed.
Weak Spot (all Dragons must take this ability). 
“Every worm has its weak spot,” Bilbo’s father said. It is 
said that the doom of Dragon-kind is that, despite their 
tough scales, they have the soft underbelly of a snake. 
If a Dragon takes an action to use a Feature other than 
Multiattack, any heroes that are within range may 
use their reaction to make an opportunity attack. For 
this attack only, the Dragon loses all resistances and 
immunities and is vulnerable to Piercing, Slashing and 
Bludgeoning damage.
Winged (Fire-drakes and Cold-drakes only). Ancient 
Dragon-breeds were wingless, but most of the Fire-drakes 
and some of the Cold-drakes are possessed of wings that 
allow them to launch themselves into the sky, in order to 
bring terror from above. A winged Dragon gains a flying 
speed of 60 ft. 
Step 4: Lair and Hoard
To encounter a Dragon in the Wild is the worst twist of 
fortune imaginable, and one would be lucky to escape 
such a chance meeting uneaten, or at least unhurt. But 
to seek out a Dragon at home? That is either the height of 
bravery or foolishness, depending on who gets to tell the 
tale afterwards.
Dragons do not construct their lairs. Instead, they find a 
suitable location and then evict (or consume) any prior 
occupants. Dragons prefer lairs that are remote and 
defensible, such as a mountain cave or the deepest part 
of the forest. But the presence of treasure of any kind 
always calls to them and a Dragon may temporarily lair 
in a less suitable location if it is rich in gold and other 
valuables.
Concerning Dragons

--- PAGE 92 ---
Lonely Mountain Region Guide
92
Lair Actions
After finding their lair, Dragons spend many long years 
gathering their hoard and sleeping their strange Dragon-
sleep. Eventually the lair takes on some aspects of the 
Dragon itself. If the Company approach a Dragon in its 
lair, you might wish to add one or more of the following 
lair actions to the ensuing battle:
	
d6	
	
Lair Effects
	
1	
	
Disorientating Mists
	
2	
	
Echoes of Laughter
	
3	
	
Freezing Fog
	
4	
	
Smoke and Flame
	
5	
	
Vile Odour
	
6	
	
Unstable Ground
Disorienting Mists. If the Dragon takes this lair action, 
the chamber begins to fill with mists and vapours, either 
arising from the natural elements of the lair or perhaps 
the Dragon’s heavy breath. Any creature (other than the 
Dragon) which moves on their turn has Disadvantage on 
attack rolls and any ability checks that rely on sight. This 
effect lasts for 1 round, after which the mists clear.
Echoes of Laughter. When the Dragon uses this lair 
action, 
the 
environment 
becomes 
extraordinarily 
loud and chaotic until the end of the round. It might 
be literal echoes of the Dragon’s powerful voice or 
an environmental effect (a waterfall or landslip) that 
produces the cacophony. Each creature in the lair (other 
than the Dragon) must make a DC 15 Constitution 
saving throw or become Deafened and Stunned until the 
end of its turn.
Freezing Fog. Whether part of the environment or some 
Dragon-spell, a fog fills the chamber that seems to seep 
into the body, making bones ache and the heart weary. 
For the remainder of the round the first time a hero takes 
damage they gain a point of Shadow.
Smoke and Flame. When this lair action is taken, a 
wave of heat and stifling smoke passes through the lair. 
Each creature other than the Dragon must make a DC 10 
Constitution saving throw or gain a level of Exhaustion. 
But even the strongest Fire-drake cannot produce flame 
indefinitely, the Dragon cannot use this lair action two 
rounds in a row.
Vile Odour. The lair of a Dragon is filled with the noxious 
fumes of its kind. By taking this lair action, the Dragon 
causes these vapours to spread and each creature other 
than the Dragon must make a DC 15 Constitution saving 
throw. On a failure, the creature is Poisoned until the end 
of its next turn.
Unstable Ground. When the Dragon activates this lair 
ability, the ground itself trembles and shakes, perhaps 
with the stamping of its mighty feet or because the lair 
was built atop one of the shifting glaciers found in the 
northernmost parts of the Withered Heath. Each creature 
other than the Dragon must make a DC 15 Strength 
saving throw or become Prone. 
Regional Effects
The most powerful Dragons affect the very land around 
them, twisting it into a reflection of their heart. 
Desolation. Dragons are marked by their greed and 
hunger. Around this Dragon’s lair, everything is barren, 
and no game or easy shelter can be found for miles. This 
regional effect extends for a radius of two miles plus 
additional miles equal to the Dragon’s Proficiency Bonus. 
Each day the heroes remain in the area of effect they must 
make a Corruption check, a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw, 
gaining a point of Shadow on a failure.
Treacherous. In the darkest dreams of Dragons, the magic 
of the Elder Days can stir and they can work a Dragon-spell 
over the area of their dominion. Every creature and even 
the rocks and trees themselves come under the influence 
of the great worm and serve as its spies. A Dragon with

--- PAGE 93 ---
93
this regional effect cannot be Surprised and makes its 
initiative roll for any combat with Advantage.  
Dragon Hoards
There is no hoard as spectacular as a Dragon hoard. Their 
greed is limitless and no amount of wealth is ever enough 
to slake their desire. However, there are some guidelines to 
use when determining what a particular Dragon’s hoard 
should look like. A Dragon’s age is the primary factor, as 
older worms have had more time to amass wealth and 
treasure. 
The table opposite gives both the suggested rating for a 
hoard belonging to a Dragon of a certain age and how 
likely various items in it have been Touched by the Shadow 
(see page 92 of the Rivendell Region Guide). If the range 
given in this table is wider than the corresponding one 
for the Magical Treasure Result table then use it instead. 
For example, normally a Precious Object is only Touched 
by the Shadow on a 6. But the same treasure recovered 
from the hoard of a Venerable Dragon is Touched by the 
Shadow on a roll of 4-6 instead.
Age
Suggested Hoard 
Rating
Touched by 
the Shadow
Dragonet
10
—
Young
50*
6
Full-Grown
100**
5-6
Venerable
500**
4-6
Ancient
1000***
3-6
Fancy Baubles
As a rule, Dragons know their hoard to an ounce, and 
few have much use for worthless trinkets. When making 
magical treasure rolls for a Dragon’s hoard, you can 
substitute Fancy Baubles in for Worthless Trinkets. Like 
trinkets, they don’t change the value of a hero’s share 
of the treasure but instead just provide a bit more detail 
about the form that some of that wealth takes.
d20+d10
Fancy Baubles
2
A set of drinking cups accented with gold bands along the rims, and carved with images of hunters in the 
wilderness. These cups are made from ivory, possibly Oliphaunt tusk, and nest one within the other. Nearby is 
an ornately carved and gilded oak box with a cleverly wrought clasp that neatly holds the stacked cups. 
3
A long skewer meant for a king’s feast. While the shaft is made from stout iron and shows the stains of having 
roasted dozens of stags or other beasts, the ends are capped in gold and silver leaf over fine ceramic knobs. 
Somewhere around here is the frame that it rests in, and together they make a fine centrepiece for any hall. 
4
A Mithril shield boss carved into the shape of a snarling beast, with bright ruby eyes. While no shield is 
attached, the rim of the boss is sound and can be used to form the centre of a new shield. 
5
A skull that once belonged to some great beast, perhaps a lesser Dragon or other foul creature. The bone has 
been highly polished and the teeth and horns accented in gold and silver. A clever set of hinges and a lever 
allow the mouth to be opened, and inside the back of the head sits a horn made of silvered steel. If the mouth is 
opened and the horn sounded, a terrifying roar is produced. 
6
A ewer of beaten gold over wood, chased in silver and large enough that a grown man could crawl inside and 
have room to turn around. The craftsmanship is crude, but effective in a primitive way. 
7
A plain ebony box made of tight-fitting panels conceals a finely wrought lantern of stone with thin panes of rosy 
quartz. The lantern does not have a gate or door, nor is there an opening in the bottom to place a wick or oil. 
Through either ingenious manufacture or some small enchantment, the lantern enhances the light of whatever 
environment it is in, reflecting starlight at night and sunlight during the day. 
Concerning Dragons

--- PAGE 94 ---
Lonely Mountain Region Guide
94
8
A string of amber beads on gold thread that most likely came from a craftsman’s workshop or a merchant’s sup­
ply. They are unworked but finely polished, and are ready to be placed on jewellery or used to decorate clothing. 
The beads range in size from a fingernail to a fist, and are sorted on the string. 
9
A puzzle box made from dozens of strips of wood, each chosen for their complementary colours and laid in such 
a manner that a successful Riddle test is needed to open it. Inside is a sheaf of paper, a dozen golden quill nibs 
and a small glass jar embossed with images of fish and waterfowl chased in silver. The ink in the jar has long 
since dried to a fine dust, but the paper appears sound. 
10
A bust of a long-dead king. While the material of the work is fine marble, the small statue is undecorated. Its wealth 
lies in its craftsmanship; for the carving is so fine one can see every whorl of hair, every wrinkle of the brow. 
11
Yards of chain, each link longer than a man’s arm and nearly as thick. The links are made of precious metals, 
gold, silver, platinum and even Mithril, with electrum and other alloys in between. At each end of the great chain 
is a massive hook made of polished steel etched with scenes of Dwarfs at the forge. 
12
An egg, just a small, delicate, blue-white egg with a slight dappling of grey across the ends. The egg is enclosed in 
a cage of thin gold wire with sapphires and diamonds at every joint and join. 
13
Eight stone bowls of polished marble lay scattered about, their shapes worked to show off the red veins in the 
pale white stone. Each bowl is encircled in alternating bands of turquoise and gold. 
14
A necklace or other adornment that is made of carven beads strung together. Each bead is cut from semi-
precious stones and engraved with a delicate script in the mode of Beleriand. 
15
A statuette of white marble, carved by Dwarven hands and of exceedingly high craft. Whoever is represented is 
from long ago and (unless they are a Wizard or an Elf) are unlikely to walk the wide world in these later days.
16
A set of golden earrings made by some long-forgotten Easterling jewelsmith. Each earring is a trapezoid with 
an illustration of an Oliphaunt made with gold wire set into it, and gold chains hanging off the corners with 
turquoise weights wrapped in gold wire at their ends.
17
A silver ceremonial dagger with a gemstone encrusted hilt. Careful inspection of the piece reveals that none of 
the stones are of exceptional value, nor would the weapon take an edge sharper than a Hobbit’s letter-opener. It 
is simply for display or use in a long-forgotten ritual of an unknown people.
18
A long wooden pipe carved with whorls and made from a single piece of wood. The mouthpiece is forged 
from silver-coated wood. The bowl is chased in gold, and tiny diamonds can be seen glinting in the eyes of the 
luxuriantly carved whorls. The pipe is long enough for the smoker, when seated, to rest the bowl upon the ground. 
19
A large and ornately decorated lintel for a doorway or gate. This massive piece of gold leaf laid over granite 
features a dozen small sunken squares, each with a carved scene. A DC 15 Intelligence (Lore) check reveals 
that the scenes are from the history of an important Dwarven family, showing the first five generations and the 
accomplishments of the family’s greatest members. 
20
A stone doorpost of smooth granite and covered with scores of small horizontal lines filled with gold. Each line 
has a name and year carved next to it in the secret Dwarvish script. The names repeat, but at increasingly higher 
lines. Some of the names are hard to read for the post is heavily scarred by Dragon-fire.

--- PAGE 95 ---
95
Step 5. Choose a Name and Backstory 
Last but not least, choose a name and a backstory 
appropriate to the characteristics you chose for your 
Great Worm. Names in the tongues of mortal Men are 
appropriate for monsters encountered in recent centuries, 
while Elvish names are fit for creatures that first plagued 
Middle-earth thousands of years ago. Consider that often 
a Dragon name is but an epithet, a title: Scatha means 
“enemy” or “robber”, while Raenar means “plunderer”. 
Smaug has its root in the verb “smugan”, meaning to 
squeeze through a hole. Ancalagon is Sindarin for “Rushing 
Jaws” or “Biting-storm”.
21
A huge two-handled cup of Númenórean make. It is easily too large for one man to lift and can hold at least 
three gallons of drink. The cup is made of silver, artfully cast in one piece with intricate designs showing great 
ships crossing the ocean. Inside a massive kraken is carved on the bottom, with its tentacles flowing up the 
inside of the cup to pour out and form the handles. 
22
A golden harp with silver strings, still magically in tune. It is sized for a Dwarf, though any hero can use it. A 
hero proficient in such musical instruments gains Advantage on any checks made with it.
23
A cloak pin wrought from a single knapped piece of quartz and reinforced with bands of gold. The point of the 
pin is tipped in steel. Upon the face of the pin is a carving of a heron taking flight, its wings forming the body of 
the pin. The spring is cleverly constructed to lie inside the quartz and yet not be visible through it. 
24
A book with covers of thin wood, painted and traced with gold and silver in a geometric pattern. The pages 
within are soft vellum and contain a variety of illustrations and text written by a graceful hand. It seems to be a 
history of the local lands but the language is unknown or obscured by some secret code. 
25
A water-spout that once was part of a grand fountain, carven from some dark stone. It takes the shape of a 
graceful swan with an arched neck and open mouth.
26
A bird made from platinum and gold, in the shape of a finch, with sparkling agate eyes and a beak made of 
silver. If tossed into the air, the bird flies in a great wide circle while singing its song, and then comes to rest in 
the hand of whoever released it. 
27
A latticework of thin strips of darkly stained hardwood held together with silver hardware. When unfolded, it 
serves as a portable lectern or display for a book. Many a Hobbit genealogy or Dwarven record-book would be 
enhanced by such a beautiful stand.
28
A heavy golden bracelet, cast in the shape of two Dragons locked in mortal combat. Each Dragon is swallowing 
the other’s tail in a fierce death grip. The two wingless Dragons are so alike as to be twin brothers but one has 
eyes of ruby and the other emerald.
29
A golden brooch in the shape of a large butterfly. The wings are multicoloured, formed by small flecks of 
precious stones set into the gold foiling. Those wise in animal-lore will know that such butterflies are only found 
in the southern lands and the story of how it found its way to a Dragon’s hoard must be a long one. 
30
A set of keys forged of a variety of precious metals. The keys range in size from those used to open a locket to 
a massive key that must have opened an equally massive lock and door. The larger keys are decorated with 
geometric designs of inlaid gemstone dust, precious metals and rare minerals. 
Concerning Dragons

--- PAGE 96 ---
Lonely Mountain Region Guide
96
Hunting Dragons
...they 
began 
discussing 
Dragon-slayings 
historical, 
dubious, and mythical, and… the different arts, devices and 
stratagems by which they had been accomplished.
Treasures to Slay a Dragon
While it is unlikely that the following items would appear 
in the hoard of a Dragon (unless they intend to guard the 
means of their own downfall closely), they are suitable 
for inclusion in the Magical Treasure Index of a campaign 
that features a Dragon as a prominent foe. 
Dragon-bane
In a past age, the Elves and the Dwarves found 
themselves with a common enemy and bent their 
prodigious skills to creating weapons that might slay 
a Great Worm. In the Third Age, such weapons are 
all but lost, in no small part due to the efforts of the 
Dragons themselves. 
•	
A Legendary Weapon of either Elven or Dwarven 
Craftsmanship may have Dragons selected as its 
Bane creature, as described on page 133 of the 
Loremaster’s Guide. 
Dragon-scale Brooch 
A small brooch fashioned from part of a Dragon’s scale, 
supposedly from Scatha himself. (Contains a Greater 
Blessing of Riddle, see page 127 of the Loremaster’s Guide.) 
The Black Arrow of Bard
Type: Arrow 
Craftsmanship: Dwarven (Erebor) 
Banes: Dragons 
Enchanted Qualities: 1. Sure Shot 2. Superior Keen 
3. Superior Fell 
Notes: Said to have been forged in the Lonely Mountain, 
the Black Arrow was passed down the line of Girion until 
Bard the Bowman slew Smaug with it. Whether this is that 
same arrow is unknown, although many a Barding would 
claim it was so. 
Scatha’s Tooth 
Type: Axe 
Craftsmanship: Dwarven (Erebor) 
Banes: —
Enchanted Qualities: 1. Gleam of Terror 2. Fell 3. Curse 
of Weakness (Dragon-sickness) 
Notes: When Fram slew the Dragon Scatha, he took his 
hoard as his own, much to the dismay of the Dwarves 
of the Grey Mountains. As recompense he sent them a 
handful of the Dragon’s teeth, one of which is embedded 
in the haft of this axe. Although the blade strikes true, 
something of the Dragon’s greed remains about it. 
Biting-storm 
Type: Great Spear 
Craftsmanship: Dwarven and Elven (Khazad-dûm and 
Eregion) 
Banes: Dragon 
Qualities: 1. Superior Grievous 2. Fierce (see page 30) 
Notes: Forged in Khazad-dûm and wound with the spells 
of the Elves of Eregion, Biting-storm was fashioned with 
one purpose in mind: to pierce the heart of a terrible 
Dragon, whose name has long been lost to legend.

--- PAGE 97 ---
97
Meeting a Dragon
It’s possible to have an audience with a Dragon. After all, 
the famous Bilbo Baggins had a rather nice conversation 
with Smaug – at least before the Dragon tried to incinerate 
him! Naturally, the success of the task will depend on 
how the conversation is led, and who will be doing the 
talking; Dwarves and Elves are no good as speakers for 
the Company, as most Dragons Mistrust or outright Hate 
them. The Dragon might simply see them as appetizers 
instead.
Talking to a Dragon is not quite the same as calling on 
others with positions of power, since few others are as 
inclined to dine on their guests as the Great Worms. Thus, 
the Introduction Check for the Audience requires a DC 20 
Intelligence (Traditions) check instead of the normal 
DC 15. However, most Dragons are fond of riddling words 
and a speaker for the Company can choose to use Riddle 
instead of Traditions to both make introductions and 
conclude the meeting.
Failing an Audience with a Dragon can be catastrophic 
and lead to combat quickly. A Loremaster might judge 
the heroes to be Surprised, impose Disadvantage on their 
initiative checks or apply both effects simultaneously. 
Forethought and strategic planning can make sure that a 
Company calling upon a Great Worm has an escape plan 
ready, just in case.
The table below provides starting attitudes for Dragons 
dealing with various cultures. Note that Dragons are 
never visitors, they are always hosts, since none of the 
Great Worms would ever prostrate themselves before 
lesser beings.
Culture
Dwarves
Elves
Men
Hobbits
Attitude
Mistrust*
Mistrust*
Askance
Unknown
 * If the Dragon has Hatred for the specified culture, this 
is Hate instead. The Dragon will immediately attack the 
speaker and all further checks for the Audience are made 
with Disadvantage if combat does not ensue.
Rumours of Dragons
Dragons are creatures of dread and terror, but also 
creatures of wonder, living curiosities that some might 
dismiss as tales of yore or wild stories told by fools. 
Still, there might be truth in the rumours and legends 
surrounding Dragons, their lairs and their hoards. 
These are things a Company might hear about Dragons 
should they seek out wisdom and lore concerning them. 
Not all of them are true, but some might well be. 
1d20+1d4
Rumour
2
“It is rare that a Dragon should make slaves of lesser creatures, but some do. Mostly it is the lowest form of 
Goblin, but the corruption of Dragons might make even the wild animals that frequent the land about a worm’s 
lair into its unwitting sentries.”
3
“The mind of the Dragon is the true danger, for their thoughts are wicked and evil, so wicked and evil that they 
leak out and pollute the hearts of others. This wickedness does not end with their deaths; it lingers like a foul 
odour and taints all they touched.” 
4
“Should you seek the worm Brégnes, look not in the caves of the mountains nor in the depths of the forests. 
For she is a great thing of long body and no limbs save the two forepaws she drags herself along with. She is 
a burrowing creature, a worm that lives beneath the earth. She sleeps in old barrows, loots from those same 
tombs and lairs in a muddy pit filled with the grave goods of ancient heroes, and the mouldering remains of 
those same warriors of old.” 
Concerning Dragons

--- PAGE 98 ---
Lonely Mountain Region Guide
98
5
“The sight, hearing and other senses of a Dragon are especially acute, but one must keep in mind that their 
memories are even sharper than their fangs. A Dragon knows by sight every item in its hoard no matter how 
small or how fleeting the first viewing was. Just so, they know this by its smell, its touch and its taste. Keep this 
in mind, for they will not forget any theft nor wrong nor slight, and will seek vengeance.” 
6
“Dragons are creatures of greed, and can always be tricked by that same greed into rash actions and cunning 
traps.” 
7
“The worm Eletredde was the first of a brood of three and fought her siblings to the death. Although in the end 
victorious, the broad curve of her horned head was damaged, so you will know her by her many broken horns. 
Between those stumps of horn is the place to lay your blow, for the armour of her hide and strength of her bone 
is weakest there.” 
8
“The tales of worms are many, and they are creatures of great diversity. There are three types they say: those that 
spit poison, those that breathe fire, and then there are the ‘Cold-drakes’ that do neither.”
9
“There is a Dragon named Sticlas that lairs not far from here, or so the tales go. While it is true that there is no 
wasteland about its peak, smoke rises there from time to time and shepherds report a strange and terrible beast 
that comes down from the sky and gobbles up entire flocks, and shepherds too!” 
10
“The only tale I have heard of Dragons is that of Hón daughter of Hanar and distant cousin to Grór brother 
of Thrór. Many long years ago, longer than even the coming of Smaug to Erebor, Hón journeyed into the Grey 
Mountains to seek revenge on the Dragon that had slain her father and kin. Now, she went alone, and was 
never heard from again, and let that be a lesson to you to never face a Dragon without stout companions. The 
thing to remember, though, is that she took with her the only item saved from her ancestral home from when 
the Dragon came, and that was an axe forged in the first days of Durin’s folk, an axe said to be so sharp it could 
cleave a column of smoke in twain.” 
11
“In my grandfather’s youth his uncle told him that a Dragon swooped down and snatched up an entire caravan 
of merchants travelling from the East to Dale. Now, this was in the days before Smaug came to the Lonely Moun­
tain. This caravan was loaded with wealth, for it was the desire of some Eastern king to purchase many finely 
wrought suits of armour from the Dwarves. What might have come of this treasure… or this Dragon?” 
12
“It is well known by learned people that the Grey Mountains are rife with slumbering Dragons, but what is not 
known is why so many sleep now? Will they stir in time, perhaps at the call of some changing of the stars or the 
rise of some great master?” 
13
“A Dragon must wake from its slumber from time to time to feast, and by watching for that moment, a brave 
warrior can sneak in and lay a trap.” 
14
“None can taste the blood of a Dragon and live, for it is as a poison of fires that slays all save the mightiest of 
strength.” 
15
“Whosoever might taste the heart of a Dragon would know all the tongues of Men and Elves, of birds and 
beasts.” 
16
“Dragons are creatures of fire and stone, that is why they lair under mountains. If you plan to slay such a beast, 
do as good King Bard has done; take them on the wing and plunge them into water. Now, flushing the beast 
from its roost, that is the trick.” 
17
“They say that a foul serpent of the line of Scatha crept silently into the forests of Mirkwood in the days when 
that dark wood was known as the Greenwood. Do not be deceived by those who say that a Necromancer lairs in 
Dol Guldur, it is a Dragon, of that I am certain.”

--- PAGE 99 ---
99
Dragons of the Third Age
"Never laugh at live Dragons…"
The Forest Dragon
This nameless Dragon crawled out of the North three 
hundred years ago, and dwells in a cave in the heart of 
Northern Mirkwood. Some say her hoard was stolen from 
the Dwarves, others claim she plundered a Northman 
town that is now lost under the leaves. The Dragon is a 
long-worm, of the line of Scatha.
More information about the Forest Dragon can be found 
in the Rhovanion Region Guide (pages 79-80) and the 
Mirkwood Campaign (pages 102-104).
Speaking with the Forest Dragon
The few who have survived an encounter with the Long-
worm report that she did not speak to them, not that they 
would have had time to converse with her as the skulking 
beast struck swiftly from her hiding place. Perhaps she 
has forgotten the tongues of Men, Elves and Dwarves in 
her long sleep or never bothered to learn them. In any 
case, she is silent when stalking her prey.
Hunting the Forest Dragon
Any who would seek the Forest Dragon must be wary 
or the hunter will become the hunted. Once she realises 
that she is being followed, she will seek to separate the 
Company and ambush them one by one. She might climb 
a tree, hiding in the dark boughs of Mirkwood, or sink her 
18
“There are many kinds of Dragons, and you may know them by their limbs. There are Dragons with no legs that 
slither like serpents, those with two legs that walk not like a man but like a great scaly bear, some with four or 
more legs, and those with wings. The last may have any number of limbs, though six is the normal amount.” 
19
“Of the land the Dragon resides in, it is always tainted and thus you may tell where they lair. Beware, though, 
for the taint of worms takes many forms and depends on the nature of the beast in question. Some cause such 
widespread destruction that the land is torn, burned, and ruined. Others send out their terrible thoughts and 
thus pollute the trees, animals, and even the rocks and streams.” 
20
“People speak of the greed of Dragons, but that is but a manifestation of the true nature of their taint, namely 
selfishness. To a worm, there is no more important creature than itself, and all that is in the world is measured 
based on that. When looking for the Dragon-sickness in others, do not just look for covetousness, but for over­
weening pride, prickly dignity and furious self-righteousness.” 
21
“Cûtoel, a Fire-drake of the line of Ádfyr, attacked a fortress of the Men of the West in ages past. He did not find 
a wealth of gold, though there was some, but this fortress was an armoury of a king. Thus the worm took to his 
treasure hoard finely wrought weapons of powerful might, and he lay down upon them to sleep.” 
22
“Of the Dragons that spit poison much has been said, but it is not just they that are poisonous. The very body 
and blood, every bit of a Dragon, is a danger to mortals. Touch not a worm with your bare hand, but only with 
a mailed fist, or better yet, a stout pole tipped with a bright head.” 
23
“Few know this, but I have heard tales of it. Dragons fight with other Dragons and even with other servants of 
the Enemy. Indeed, they are not so much slaves of the Shadow, but creations thereof. With this knowledge, one 
can turn beast upon beast and foe upon foe, but who is cunning enough to trick the mind of a Dragon? Who is 
foolish enough to try?” 
24
“I have heard that in the uttermost East there is a breed of Dragon known as Were-worms. It is said that they 
can send their heart forth from their bodies in the guise of an old wrinkled man wrapped in robes of crimson. 
They serve as viziers to the high and mighty, but use both lies and sorceries to gain even more power and treas­
ure for themselves.”
Concerning Dragons

--- PAGE 100 ---
Lonely Mountain Region Guide
100
body into a woodland stream to suddenly erupt from the 
mud and attack, or she might use the deep shadows of the 
forest to surprise her foes.
She is a clever huntress and won’t attack a group of 
martially-skilled heroes head on. If pressed, she might 
grab one unfortunate companion in her deadly tail-grip 
and then use her superior knowledge of the land around 
to retreat from the rest of the company. Then she will have 
plenty of time to tenderise her meal before hunting again.
Lair Actions: Disorientating Mists, Echoes of Laughter 
(Waterfall)
Regional Effects: Treacherous
Kibiluzn
When the Dragons descended upon the Dwarf kingdom 
in the Grey Mountains, many fell to Dwarven axes and 
cunning. Of those that died, one nameless Long-worm left 
something behind, hidden in the deep beneath a fallen 
Dwarf-hold: a single egg. None can say why this Worm 
would choose to leave behind its progeny, only that it lay 
forgotten for centuries.
Centuries passed in silence and neither the Goblins of 
Mount Gundabad nor the Dwarves of the Grey Mountains 
knew what lay slumbering beneath their halls. It was on 
the same night that Esgaroth burned that this forgotten 
evil entered the world. Slithering from his broken shell, a 
silver scaled Dragon was born into darkness. 
In the depths of the world he not only survived but 
flourished. He was a keen hunter, silent and deadly. 
He stalked the wretched creatures that lived in these 
abandoned depths, but as he grew in size, so too did his 
hunger grow. 
He slithered south and into the Grey Mountain Narrows, 
where he began to stalk the scattered camps of Dwarf 
refugees who lived about the foothills there. The Dragon 
The Forest Dragon
Huge Dragon (Full-grown Long-worm)
STR 
24 (+7)
DEX 
22 (+6)
CON 
20 (+5)
INT 
14 (+2)
WIS 
16 (+3)
CHA 
16 (+3)
Armour Class 19 (Natural Armour)
Hit Points 207 (18d12+90)
Speed 30 ft, climb 30 ft
Damage Resistances non-magical bludgeoning and 
slashing (see below)
Saving Throws Strength +11, Dexterity +10, 
Constitution +9
Skills Athletics +11, Stealth +10, Survival +7
Senses passive Perception 13
Languages Unknown (no one in this Age of the world 
has heard her speak)
Challenge 12 (8,400 XP)
Mirkwood Dweller (Recharge 5-6). As a bonus action, 
if the Forest Dragon is within Mirkwood she can gain 
half-cover from a scenery feature, even if it would not 
normally provide it.
Thing of Terror (1/day). As a bonus action, The Forest 
Dragon can rear up and display her full strength. Each 
creature within 60 ft must make a DC 19 Wisdom saving 
throw or be Frightened until the end of their next turn.
Tough Hide. The Forest Dragon is resistant to non-
magical bludgeoning and slashing damage.
Weak Spot. If the Forest Dragon uses her Crushing 
Tail-grip any heroes that are within range may use their 
reaction to make a single attack. For this attack only, she 
loses her damage resistances and she is vulnerable to all 
piercing, slashing and bludgeoning damage.
Actions
Multiattack. The Forest Dragon makes one Bite and two 
Rend attacks.
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 10 ft, one 
target. Hit: 20 (3d8+7) piercing damage.
Rend. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 10 ft, one 
target. Hit: 16 (2d8+7) slashing damage.
Crushing Tail-grip. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, 
reach 5 ft, one target. Hit: 13 (1d12+7) bludgeoning 
damage. The target becomes Grappled (escape DC 21). 
The Dragon can spend its action to cause 13 (1d12+7) 
bludgeoning damage to the Grappled foe.
Legendary Actions
The Forest Dragon has 1 Legendary action, given below. 
At the start of her turn she regains her spent Legendary 
action.
Deadly Tail-grip. The Forest Dragon causes 13 (1d12+7) 
bludgeoning damage to a Grappled foe.

--- PAGE 101 ---
101
saw that his prey carried fine weapons and well-crafted 
armour, but they also carried something far more 
precious: jewels and gemstones. 
Greed and malice consumed his heart. Taking these riches 
back into his hold, he became driven by gold-lust, hunting 
for more Dwarves, more miners, more treasure seekers. 
Legends and whispers grew amongst the Dwarves of the 
Grey Mountains. “Kibiluzn” they called him: the Silver 
Shadow. 
Kibiluzn searched out fresh prey in newly dug passages. 
He journeyed west beneath the stone peaks until he 
discovered the Goblin tribes that cowered near to Mount 
Gundabad. They were diminished and broken, still 
recovering from wounds suffered during the Battle of Five 
Armies. They had no gold, no jewels, no treasure. 
As Kibiluzn lay in shadow, watching the Goblins, there 
came to his mind, as if by a whisper, a new idea. Kibiluzn 
descended upon the Goblins, but rather than consume 
them he instead compelled them. The Goblins screamed 
and cowered, grovelling before the awful worm. 
It would do well for a Dragon to have servants to command, 
so Kibiluzn bid the Goblins serve him. Promising them 
riches beyond imagination and Dwarven blood upon 
their blades, Kibiluzn has drawn scores of Goblins to his 
service. 
Still they come, countless Goblins and other wretched 
creatures, to the service of Kibiluzn. All live in the depths 
of the earth beside the Dragon, basking in the glory of his 
wealth, slaves to his terrible beauty. 
Soon, the Dragon will have an army. Then the Dwarves 
of the Grey Mountains will know terror and horror anew. 
Kibiluzn is young, yes; but ambitious. A longing for gold 
and carnage grows with each passing season in his heart, 
yet a deeper desire grows in its breast. There is a calling 
in its heart from the East. As the Silver Shadow grows in 
strength, so too does a longer darkness reach out to claim 
all of Wilderland. 
An Audience with Kibiluzn
Heroes wanting to meet with Kibiluzn might play on his 
desires to command others. Presenting themselves as 
mercenaries willing to work for a Dragon is a dangerous 
approach, but one that has at least a chance of working. 
Of course, no great worm will willingly part with their 
treasure so the negotiations are likely to be fraught. This 
means the heroes might accumulate a large amount of 
Shadow: first for lying to the Dragon and second for the 
demanding playacting.
Motivation: There is no one more cleverer than me, and 
my army will bring ruin to the North!
Expectations: +2 if the Company bows and scrapes or 
acts suitably afeared of Kibiluzn’s presence; -1 if they 
mock his motley force of wretches; -2 if they have slain a 
number of the Dragon’s Goblins. 
Traits: Lordly, Proud, Secretive
Attacking the Silver Shadow
Kibiluzn’s current lair is somewhere in the northern 
reaches of the Misty Mountains, near to Gundabad. He 
might be near The Lost Watchtower (Rhovanion Region 
Guide, page 19) or the Long Delve (page 27 of the same 
volume) or one of the many vastnesses left empty from the 
War of the Dwarves and Orcs (see page 106).
Concerning Dragons

--- PAGE 102 ---
Lonely Mountain Region Guide
102
Kibiluzn will spend his forces (mostly Misty Mountain 
Goblins and Goblin Archers) unstintingly so that he 
does not have to risk his precious hide. If forced into 
direct combat, he will prefer the deep and dark places 
underneath the mountains where he can benefit the most 
from his natural advantages. He will undoubtedly be 
accompanied by some of his strongest bodyguards (Orc 
Guards and, perhaps, Black Uruks sent from the Land of 
Shadow).
Lair Actions: Terrible Stench, Unstable Ground
Regional Effects: None
Lytegan
Like so many tales of Dragons in the Third Age, Lytegan’s 
begins on the Withered Heath. She descends from a line 
akin to that of Smaug the Golden, but she was born far 
smaller than most of her brethren. 
Though she does have wings and foreclaws, her rear 
limbs were partially stunted even as she was hatched. 
Lytegan swiftly realised that her days were numbered if 
she remained on the Withered Heath and while many of 
her siblings were fighting with one another for supremacy, 
she slithered her way south into the Grey Mountains. 
At the time, the Dwarves still firmly held the Grey 
Mountains, and Lytegan was cautious at avoiding their 
attention. She grew adept at slipping into and out of 
Dwarf-holds unnoticed, careful to leave no trace of her 
presence. Eventually, for all her restraint, her thefts grew 
too bold and the number of missing guards too many. 
When the Dwarves began to hunt after her, she flew west 
on a moonless night, with such wealth as she couldn’t 
bear to part with. 
In 2472 of the Third Age she entered the northern Misty 
Mountains and slowly began working her way south 
along the range. Though Lytegan could not have known 
it, her timing was excellent, as the mountains were not yet 
teeming with the Orcs and Goblins that would populate 
them less than a decade later at the Dark Lord’s behest. 
Kibiluzn
Large Dragon (Young Long-worm)
STR 
20 (+5)
DEX 
22 (+6)
CON 
21 (+5)
INT 
12 (+1)
WIS 
13 (+1)
CHA 
14 (+2)
Armour Class 17 (natural armour)
Hit Points 126 (12d10+60)
Speed 30 ft
Saving Throws Strength +8, Dexterity +9, Constitution +8
Skills Athletics +8, Stealth +9, Survival +4
Senses darkvision 60 ft, passive Perception 11
Languages Orcish, Westron
Challenge 6 (2,300 XP)
Fell Speed. Kibiluzn may take a bonus action to 
Disengage and move up to his speed towards an enemy 
he can see.
Hatred (Dwarves, Recharge 5-6). Kibiluzn can use his 
bonus action to gain Advantage on attacks against his 
chosen prey this round.
Weak Spot. If Kibiluzn uses a special Feature that uses 
an action (Noxious Vapours), any heroes that are within 
range may use their reaction to make a single attack. For 
this attack only, he is vulnerable to Piercing, Slashing and 
Bludgeoning damage.
Actions
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 10 ft, one 
target. Hit: 15 (2d8+6) piercing damage or 17 (2d8+8)
damage at night or underground.
Rend. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 10 ft, one 
target. Hit: 12 (2d6+5) slashing damage or 14 (2d6+7) 
damage at night or underground.
Noxious Vapours (Recharge 4-6). As an action, 
Kibiluzn exhales a thick cloud of foul fumes in a 15 ft 
cone. Each creature within the cone must make a DC 
16 Constitution saving throw, becoming Blinded and 
Poisoned for 3 (1d4+1) rounds on a failure or Poisoned for 
3 (1d4+1) rounds on a success.
Reactions
Commanding Voice. Kibiluzn demands utter loyalty 
from the Orcs and Goblins in his employ. As a reaction, 
Kibiluzn can utter a command or shout a warning 
whenever an allied creature that he can see within 30 ft, is 
about to make an attack roll or a saving throw. The target 
can add a d6 Command Die to its next roll, provided it 
can hear and understand the message. A creature can 
benefit from only one Command Die at a time, and 
creatures that possess Commanding Voice cannot benefit 
from this effect.

--- PAGE 103 ---
103
She slept in mostly abandoned caverns, only occasionally 
leaving the deep tunnels to hunt in the rich vales east of 
the mountains when the taste of fish and Goblin grew 
stale. 
Lytegan’s southward trail eventually led to the gates of 
Moria. She plundered what she could from the Black 
Pit, making certain to stay mostly in the upper halls so 
as not to draw attention to herself. Soon, the numbers of 
Orcs grew too great for stealth and she withdrew from the 
mines, though she did not go far. Lytegan chose to make 
her lair in the heights of Cloudyhead, one of the three 
great mountains over Moria. 
Called Fanuidhol the Grey by the Elves and Bundushathûr 
by the Dwarves, Cloudyhead suited Lytegan because of 
the clouds that perpetually concealed its peak. Now she 
sleeps high in the mountain, directly northwards of the 
Dimrill Dale, far above Moria, occasionally waking to 
pick off likely travellers on the Redhorn Pass or bands of 
Orcs carrying worthwhile trinkets. 
Lytegan is as long as three large draft horses, standing 
end to end. Her scales are a fine silvery-grey, shot through 
with traces of gold along the edges. Her snout is triangular, 
filled with several rows of serrated teeth. 
She moves with an almost-feline grace, frequently folding 
her arms and wings against her body to slither like a snake 
if she is underground. She possesses the old-fire and her 
breath still promises a fiery death, but she is wary of using 
it if it will draw attention to her. 
During her wakeful periods she likes to fly high within 
the clouds of Fanuidhol, keeping her presence concealed 
while still allowing her to inspect the lands about her lair 
with keen eyes.
Lytegan’s hoard is worth 200**. In addition to gold, 
jewels and many finely-wrought Dwarven items, she has 
several large chunks of shimmering Mithril ore that she 
took from Moria. 
Meeting Lytegan
It is hard to have an audience with this cautious Fire-drake. 
Against those she deems a threat, Lytegan will either 
withdraw or attempt to lead the heroes into a trap. But 
if she is somehow cornered, she will use all the cunning 
of her kind to escape. Her promises are empty and her 
secrets are nothing but lies — she spins falsehoods like the 
spiders of Mirkwood spin webs.
Motivation: Survival matters more than anything else… 
my life is worth more than any treasure.
Expectations: +1 if the Company approaches without 
weapons at the ready; -1 if she learns she herself has been 
deceived; -2 if the heroes contradict her falsehoods. 
Traits: Cautious, Cunning, Nimble
Battling Lytegan
Lytegan likes to use her superior mobility in combat, 
flying high and swooping down to use her Fire Breath or 
her Wing Attack and then retreating to a safe distance. 
Lytegan is not interested in fair fights. 
Lytegan is cunning and malicious. She has, on occasion, 
simply caused an avalanche to bury particularly 
dangerous heroes, then melted the snow off with her 
breath to acquire whatever takes her fancy from the 
corpses of her targets. Unlike most Dragons, she has few 
compulsions about withdrawing to fight another day. 
Lair Actions: Freezing Fog, Smoke and Flame
Regional Effects: None
A Dragon of Greater Power
While Lytegan is still a Young Fire-drake, a review 
of her stats will indicate that she is more powerful 
than others of her age category. In addition to deadly 
attacks like Fire Breath and Wing Attack, she also 
has stout defenses… her Scaly Hide and her Fleet of 
Wing. For these reasons — and for the fact that she 
has seven ‘slots’ worth of features instead of five — 
she is judged to be Challenge 7 instead of 6. 
When making your own Dragon, consider if you need 
to modify the rating of your Great Worm if it is 
especially powerful or weaker than others of its kind.
Concerning Dragons

--- PAGE 104 ---
Lonely Mountain Region Guide
104
Lytegan
Large Dragon (Young Fire-drake)
STR 
23 (+6)
DEX 
18 (+4)
CON 
18 (+4)
INT 
14 (+2)
WIS 
11 (+0)
CHA 
16 (+3)
Armour Class 18 (natural armour)
Hit Points 114 (12d10+48)
Speed 20 ft, fly 90 ft. (see below)
Damage Resistance non-magical bludgeoning and 
piercing (see below)
Saving Throws Constitution +7, Wisdom +3, Charisma +6
Skills Deception +6, Lore +5, Perception +3, Stealth +7
Senses darkvision 60 ft, passive Perception 13
Languages Westron
Challenge 7 (2,900 XP)
Fleet of Wing. Lytegan’s flying speed is 90 ft.
Scaly Hide. Lytegan is resistant to non-magical 
bludgeoning and piercing damage.
Weak Spot. If Lytegan uses a special ability that uses an 
action (Fire Breath), any heroes that are within range 
may use their reaction to make a single attack. For this 
attack only, she loses any damage resistances and is 
vulnerable to Piercing, Slashing and Bludgeoning damage.
Actions
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 10 ft, one 
target. Hit: 15 (2d8+6) piercing damage.
Rend. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 10 ft, one 
target. Hit: 13 (2d6+6) slashing damage.
Fire Breath (Recharge 5-6). As an action, Lytegan 
exhales fire in a 30-ft cone. Each creature in that area 
must make a DC 16 Dexterity saving throw, taking 
31 (9d6) fire damage on a failed save, or half as much 
damage on a successful one.
Legendary Actions
Lytegan has 2 Legendary actions, choosing from the 
options below. She regains any spent Legendary actions at 
the beginning of her turn.
Piercing Words. Lytegan can force a hidden creature to 
make a DC 18 Wisdom saving throw. On a failure the 
creature reveals itself to her. She must be able to infer the 
presence of the creature in some way (for example, she 
can hear the creature or it was in sight recently) in order to 
use this ability. 
Wing Attack. Lytegan can beat her wings. Each creature 
within 15 ft of her must make a DC 16 Dexterity saving 
throw or take 13 (2d6+6) bludgeoning damage and be 
knocked Prone. She can then fly up to half her flying 
speed.
 
Raenar 
Far off in the Withered Heath, a great Cold-drake slept. 
More than three hundred years ago he plagued the Grey 
Mountains, killing and stealing from the Dwarves who 
lived there. They called him Raenar, the Plunderer, for he 
had smashed the gates of many halls since the reign of 
Náin the Second. In 2589 he killed King Dáin the First, 
and his second son Frór, but was grievously hurt in the 
battle. Soon after that, he abandoned the region.
Raenar didn’t die of his wounds. He settled in a frozen cave 
to heal, and slowly fell into a slumber. His sleep would 
have lasted an age or more, if he hadn’t been awoken. His 
long sleep has diminished him in size and strength, but it 
hasn’t robbed him of his wicked cunning or of his ability to 
catch the scent of gold and precious things…
Raenar’s story is explored in Wilderland Adventures, 
starting on page 134. Depending on the outcome of that 
adventure (or if you’d like to introduce Raenar in a different 
way), he might have the chance to recover more of his 
strength and power. If that’s the case, use the following 
information for any encounters with the Cold-drake.
A Dangerous Conversation
Raenar’s arrival is heralded by an almost overpowering 
stench. The Cold-drake is a terrifying sight: a vast silver-
grey serpent, wingless, with a huge head set upon a thick 
neck. He walks on four short and robust legs, sometimes 
slithering on his slime-covered belly. 
From his beak-like muzzle and powerful, saw-toothed 
jaws emerge wisps of venomous cold vapours. Around 
his neck is an iron-banded collar, a reminder of Raenar’s 
enslavement during the Elder Days.
If he chooses to meet with the heroes, Raenar humbly 
presents himself as the greatest of all Cold-drakes, the 
Dragon-king, the plunderer of a hundred Dwarf-halls, the 
slayer of Kings, the Great Worm of the Frozen Waste, the 
Scourge of the North, and so on.
Motivation: There is one thing I prize more than murder, 
gold or precious stones: freedom. I will never forget my 
subjugation of long ago and I WILL NEVER submit to 
another’s command.

--- PAGE 105 ---
105
Expectations:  +1: if they amuse the Dragon with 
riddles; +2 if the heroes flatter Raenar; -1  if he suspects 
the Company are trying to stall or fool him; - 4 if anyone 
implies that he is anything less than the mightiest Dragon 
in this age of the world.
Traits: Curious, Proud, Vengeful
A Deadly Cold
Adventurers who are fearless enough to confront the 
Plunderer of the North will have quite a fight on their 
hands. Before closing with the heroes, Raenar is likely 
to use his Mesmerise ability on the those he deems 
the biggest threat, in order to keep them out of the 
combat. He’ll try to use his Poison Blast to reduce the 
effectiveness of any remaining combatants and then use 
his primary attacks and his Horrible Strength to lay 
low anyone who dares close with him.
The following entries assume that Raenar has found a 
new lair, perhaps after ridding it of other troublesome 
occupants. 
Lair Actions: Echoes of Laughter, Terrible Stench
Regional Effects: Desolation
Raenar the Great Cold-drake
Huge Dragon (Venerable Cold-drake)
STR 
24 (+7)
DEX 
18 (+4)
CON 
24 (+7)
INT 
15 (+2)
WIS 
13 (+1)
CHA 
18 (+4)
Armour Class 21 (natural armour)
Hit Points 283 (21d12+147)
Speed 30 ft
Saving Throws Constitution +12, Intelligence +7, 
Wisdom +6
Skills History +7, Intimidation +9, Perception +6
Senses darkvision 60 ft, passive Perception 16
Languages Westron, Black Speech, Sindarin
Challenge 15 (13,000 XP)
Horrible Strength. If Raenar makes a successful melee 
attack, he may use his bonus action to cause 7 additional 
damage of the same type as the original type.
Weak Spot. If Raenar uses a special ability that uses 
an action (Mesmerise or Poison Blast), any heroes 
that are within range may use their reaction to make a 
single attack. For this attack only, Raenar is vulnerable to 
Piercing, Slashing and Bludgeoning damage.
Actions
Multiattack. Raenar makes two attacks biting once and 
then either rending or using his tail attack.
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 10 ft, one 
target. Hit: 20 (3d8+7) piercing damage.
Rend. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 10 ft, one 
target. Hit: 18 (2d10+7) slashing damage.
Tail-Lash. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 10 ft, 
one target. Hit: 13 (1d12+7) bludgeoning damage and the 
target is knocked Prone.
Mesmerise. Raenar may use his action and target one 
creature, who must make a DC 18 Wisdom saving throw 
or become Charmed by the Dragon. Each time he does 
anything harmful to the target, it can repeat the saving 
throw, ending the effect on a success. Otherwise, the effect 
lasts 24 hours or until Raenar leaves the area, is slain or 
takes a bonus action to end the effect.
Poison Blast (Recharge 5-6). As an action, Raenar 
exhales poisonous bile in a 50 ft cone. Each creature in 
that area must make a DC 18 Dexterity saving throw, 
taking 37 (5d4+25) poison damage and becoming 
Poisoned for 2d4 rounds on failed saving throw. A 
successful saving throw reduces the damage by half, and 
the target is Poisoned for only 1d4 rounds.
Reactions
Draconic Resistance (Recharge 5-6). Dragons are 
notoriously tough and free-willed. Raenar may activate 
this ability as a reaction to failing a saving throw. He 
automatically succeeds at the saving throw instead.
Legendary Actions
Raenar has two Legendary actions choosing from the 
options below. Raenar regains spent Legendary actions at 
the start of his turn.
Bite Attack. Raenar makes a bite attack.
Rend Attack. Raenar makes a rend attack
Concerning Dragons

--- PAGE 106 ---
Lonely Mountain Region Guide
106
THE WAR OF
- THE DWARVES -
AND ORCS
Then Nár turned the head and saw branded on 
the brow in Dwarf-runes so that he could read 
it the name AZOG. That name was branded in 
his heart and in the hearts of all the Dwarves 
afterwards. 
The woes of Durin’s folk in the Third Age are many, 
but perhaps none more tragic than the death of their 
King, Thrór, and the War of the Dwarves and Orcs that 
followed. Never in the Third Age has so mighty a Dwarf 
host gathered, and never have so many fallen in battle as 
in that war of vengeance.
The Eve of War (2790)
Throughout the Third Age, the Dwarves of the line of Durin 
fell upon hard times. After fleeing the Grey Mountains 
following the wars with the Cold-drakes, they returned to 
the Lonely Mountain, to rule over Erebor for a time. When 
the Dragon Smaug fell upon them they were forced from 
their domains once more, suffering exile anew. 
In the year 2790 of the Third Age, Thrór, their elder King, 
made a fateful journey to the eastern doorstep of Khazad 
dûm, his kin’s ancient stronghold in the Misty Mountains. 
There he found the gates of the vast hold open; gazing 
upon the true birthright of his people the King decided to 
venture within its halls alone. His only companion, Nár, 
waited for him in the valley outside. 
Thrór delved within Moria for some time, exploring the 
deep halls and dusty storerooms of his ancestral home, 
until he was set upon by the Orcs who dwelt there now, led 
by the cruellest of their kind: Azog. He suffered dire torture 
and unremitting interrogation, yet Thrór frustrated his 
captors, refusing to answer their queries or succumb to 
their devices. 
On the third day Nár heard a horn blared from inside the 
gate, and crept nearer to investigate. Thrór’s body was 
flung through the gate onto the steps. To Nar’s horror, his 
lord was dead. A freshly carved word written in the runes 
of the Dwarves: “AZOG” was carved on Thrór’s brow. 
Then Azog came forth from the gate and, pointing to the 
body with clawed finger, he announced that such was 
the fate of any Dwarf who dared to come to Moria. Azog 
declared himself King of Moria. He demanded that Nár 
carry the brazen threat and the ill tidings back to his 
scattered folk. Before he left, the dismayed Dwarf was

--- PAGE 107 ---
107
struck with a small pouch of cheap coins: rude weregild 
for Thrór’s body. 
Nár fled, weeping at the loss of his King. After a long, 
wretched journey, he came to Dunland, the land of their 
exile, and related the tale of Thrór’s fate and Azog’s 
threat. As the story came to its terrible end, the fury of 
the assembled Dwarves boiled over into a seething anger. 
For seven nights, Thráin son of Thrór sat alone in his 
chambers. At last he emerged, vengeance burning within 
his breast.
The Mustering of the Host (2790–2793) 
What Thráin planned was no simple murder. It was 
no mere bounty to be hunted down. This would be 
the marshalling of all the might the Dwarves could 
muster. This required careful planning, a meticulous 
consideration of strength and a methodical gathering of 
warriors and weapons. 
He gathered his own folk in Dunland and informed them 
of his intent. In time, news spread to Dwarves that resided 
nearby, until all of Durin’s folk heeded the call to arms. 
Such was the size of their assembled numbers that it was 
likened unto the days of old. And yet, more were needed. 
Thráin next sent messengers to those Dwarves living in 
the Blue Mountains, and also to the hold in the Iron Hills 
where their cousins resided still. His messengers even 
took Thráin’s news into the farthest reaches of the East. 
The message was the same for all who received it: Thrór 
was dead at the hands of Azog, who now claimed Moria 
as his own. 
Three years passed before Thráin stood at the head of his 
host. Durin’s folk gathered all their strength in Dunland, 
but they did not gather alone. The fathers of all the 
Houses of the Dwarves dispatched great forces of their 
own to answer Thráin’s call. The Dwarves had assembled 
and were ready to set upon their hated foe to enact their 
revenge. 
Planning and Scheming 
In Dunland, Thráin gathered the fathers of the Dwarf 
Houses to plan the war of vengeance. Maps were unrolled; 
mountain peaks and vales were indicated where pertinent 
tactical suggestions were considered. It was clear the 
vastness of the Misty Mountains would impede the 
mission. Some suggested attacking Moria alone, but 
Thráin bristled at the idea. It was not enough to kill Azog: 
all the Orcs must be slain. 
After much deliberation, a plan was formulated that 
detailed an onslaught upon all of the Orc holdings in 
the Misty Mountains. Initial attacks were organised 
targeting the largest of Orc lairs; it was to be a mailed fist 
closing around Moria itself. The strategy was relayed to 
all the Dwarf-thanes and, in due course, the host made 
preparations to depart. On that day, Thráin led his 
own household at the vanguard of tens of thousands of 
Dwarves. Iron-shod boots pounded the dusty plains as they 
Dwarf Player-heroes and the War
Older Dwarf-heroes – 150 years of age or older – will undoubtedly have fought in the War of the Dwarves and 
Orcs. Some might carry the burdens of the Battle of Azanulbizar still; a kinsman who fell beside them, perhaps, or 
an injury they themselves sustained. Perhaps their arms and armour are from that dark day. Undoubtedly a hatred 
of Orcs continues to burn in their breasts. 
Younger Dwarves who did not fight in the war will still have been touched by it. Perhaps their father or older brother 
did not return from the Battle of Azanulbizar, or maybe they now bear an heirloom made significant by its use in 
the war. 
As a player of a Dwarf, you might like to carefully read this chapter and consider what role it plays in your hero’s 
background. 
The War of the Dwarves and Orcs

--- PAGE 108 ---
Lonely Mountain Region Guide
108
departed north. Carts and wagons laden with supplies, 
weapons, tools, gear and all manner of equipment were 
pulled by oxen and pony behind. Siege engines, built to 
attack the Orc lairs, were dragged along behind. This was 
a host of Dwarves the likes of which had not been seen in 
the Third Age.
The War of Vengeance (2793–2799) 
The next seven years saw many battles, some great 
victories for the Dwarves and many bitter defeats. But the 
Dwarves were relentless.
The Fall of Mount Gundabad
The Dwarves marched northwards, towards the Orcs’ 
nest in Gundabad. It took many months to traverse the 
lands north of Dunland and west of the Misty Mountains. 
Crossing the Glanduin, they came upon Eregion and 
stayed for a time near the Hollin Ridge, where they sent 
scouts to spy on the Orcs of Moria. In time, they crossed 
the great East Road and entered the Ettenmoors. Here the 
land rose up to meet the Mountains of Angmar. It was 
a land of haunted spirits and foul reputation, but the 
Dwarves were troubled little. After months of trekking the 
wilderness of Eriador, they neared Mount Gundabad. 
Stealthy scouts selected the shortest possible route to the 
east; speed was critical to this plan. Over half of the Dwarf 
army awaited the summer solstice to begin their journey. 
With Thráin in command, they marched through the 
narrow pass. With the long summer sun as their shield, 
they were unimpeded in their march to the eastern slopes. 
The Dwarves emerged from the valley just as the sun set. 
They encamped in a fortified, shielded enclosure beyond 
the eastern gate of Mount Gundabad. 
The next day, horns declared their presence as the Dwarves 
arrayed themselves before the gates of the stronghold. 
Orc defenders mustered on the high walls of the fortress, 
growling their threats and howling their challenges. At 
Thráin’s command, the Dwarf warriors surged forward, 
bringing forth their siege equipment. Ladders rose to 
meet the walls, catapults swung into action and battering 
rams were muscled towards the gates. Ominously, clouds 
covered the bright sun that morning, causing a ripple of 
unease amongst the Dwarves. They looked on as the great 
gate swung open. Suddenly, the Orcs poured out, eager 
for melee.
Throughout the morning, the battle lines swung back 
and forth across the vales beneath Mount Gundabad. By 
midday, however, there was a commotion among the Orcs 
who had remained within. Something had distracted them 
from inside their own lair. A quarter of the Dwarven forces 
had been left on the western slopes of the mountains, and 
had ventured within Mount Gundabad through smaller 
entrances left unguarded in the face of the frontal assault. 
Led by Thráin’s chief scout, Huthrar, hundreds of Dwarven 
warriors surprised the Orcs, forcing them back towards 
the eastern gate. 
The Orc chieftains were hard pressed to hold back the 
invaders. Fleeing their own halls, Orcs spilled out into the 
vales, where they were met by Thráin’s eager warriors, 
themselves augmented by the remainder of the host 
entering the fray from the mountain pass. Thousands of 
Orcs fell, the Dwarves slaughtering them in every cave 
and tunnel they could find. 
It took more than a month to rid the lair of all its vile 
creatures, but in the end, Mount Gundabad was cleansed 
of Orcs. Thráin’s vengeance was only just beginning. 
Catastrophe amidst the Middle Years
In the months that followed, the Dwarven host rooted out 
many of the Orc lairs south of Mount Gundabad. Ancient 
records brought from Erebor proved invaluable in their 
efforts. Thráin spent many long nights surveying the 
ancient lore of the mountainous region by lantern light.

--- PAGE 109 ---
109
Time-worn maps revealed old entrances into the holds and 
helped the Dwarves outmanoeuvre and outflank the Orc 
defenders within the mountains. The superior arms and 
armour of the Dwarves, and Thráin’s cunning, won many 
a battle. Bastion after bastion, the Orcs were defeated. But 
in the tunnels beneath the High Pass, the Dwarves grew 
overconfident. 
Soon after the fall of Mount Gundabad, Orcs throughout 
the Misty Mountains came to realise the full extent of the 
Dwarven aggression. What they had mistaken for the 
wanderings of an exiled enemy, was in fact war come 
to the mountains. It was fortunate the foul creatures of 
the entire range were never united under a single black 
banner, for had Azog possessed the might of all the Orcs 
he might have ended Thráin’s war before it truly had a 
chance to begin. In time, however, the foul denizens of the 
mountains came to arms and each lair was more prepared 
for invasion than the last. 
Resistance became stronger, the Orcs more devious. The 
advantage of surprise abated, and Dwarven casualties 
mounted. Yet, it was only in the caves beneath the High 
Pass that the Orcs sprung their deadliest scheme… 
A contingent of Dwarves, led by Thráin, had traversed 
many of the underground chambers and tunnels beneath 
the mountains when they emerged in a cavernous 
opening that appeared to have been the Orcs’ pit. It was 
deserted, which was nothing unusual, as the Orcs were 
always a cowardly lot. Glad of the reprieve, a temporary 
encampment was established. And then, an explosive 
din heralded the fall of the ceiling: in a brief, horrible 
moment, the host of Thráin was buried beneath falling 
masonry. Countless died, crushed or suffocated under 
the weight of the stone. Once the dust had settled, the 
cavern was filled with the groans of the injured and the 
laments of the dying. For long days, the survivors lay 
trapped, awaiting death. Soon their water was gone, and 
efforts to find an exit from the chamber were abandoned. 
Hope was lost. 
Fortunately for the survivors, scouts were sent out to 
search for them as soon as the King went missing. Thanks 
to the extensive records in their possession, the scouts 
were able to locate the area where the King would most 
likely be trapped. When they reached the blocked tunnels, 
the Dwarves made contact with their brethren by tapping 
carefully on the stone. They set to delving through the 
rocks, mattocks tirelessly chipping away. Progress was 
slow, and made slower still by prowling Orcs. Many died 
protecting the tunnelling Dwarves, as four waves of Orcs 
attempted to stop them. 
Eventually the attacks ceased and the Dwarves broke 
through. Many grieved the loss of life that day. The devious 
and underhanded guile of the Orcs would never again be 
misjudged. Indeed, the Dwarves would turn those same 
tactics against the Orcs as the war continued southwards. 
The Blockades of the Late War
During the months that followed, Thráin assessed the 
losses and weighed them against his triumphs. The 
balance was favourable, though barely so. He gathered 
often with his thanes and such able and wise counsel as 
was available. Together, they formed a cunning plan to 
block major paths leading to Moria as they continued to 
clear the smaller Orc holdings along the way. If successful, 
Azog would be unable to amass a large enough counter 
attack to hold the Dwarves back. 
Though he would have preferred to relentlessly advance, 
Thráin heeded his advisors and sent miners to collapse 
the main tunnels leading to the northern reaches of 
Moria, while he himself attacked more remote Orc-lairs 
to detract attention from their main objective. The plan 
took time to develop, and the fighting in the tunnels north 
of Moria was as bloody as any in the war. In time, three 
entrances to Khazad-dûm were brought down, but at the 
cost of many Dwarven scouts. Huthrar himself perished 
before the last tunnel collapsed. 
With the blockade in place, Azog could not summon 
reinforcements, and Thráin’s armies quickly swept 
through the Orcs’ nests north of Moria. By year’s end, the 
conquest was complete. 
But many smaller, unmapped tunnels remained intact, 
and it was through these that hundreds of Orcs fled back 
to the Black Pit, arriving in Moria with tales of vengeful 
Dwarves. Azog gathered these survivors, adding them to 
his own host. The Orc-chief believed the incursion could 
be stopped when it arrived at his doorstep, and so Azog 
prepared. 
The War of the Dwarves and Orcs

--- PAGE 110 ---
Lonely Mountain Region Guide
110
Blighted Dreams
"The men of Carn Dûm came on us at night, and we were worsted. Ah! the spear in my heart!’ He clutched at his 
breast. ‘No! No!’ he said, opening his eyes. ‘What am I saying? I have been dreaming." 
There are places in Middle-earth where deeds so dark and sorrowful were committed that a darkness has descended 
upon them. While the passing of years normally washes away all grief, here that shadow has never been lifted. It 
blights the land and the air, hanging like a dark cloud capable of confusing the minds of any who dare wander there.
 These are the sites that saw the bloodiest battles, or the blackest treacheries. Blighted places like the valley of 
Azanulbizar, the Dead Marshes, the darkest recesses of Moria or the Barrow-downs. 
Haunted Places
"There are dead things, dead faces in the water," he said with horror. "Dead faces!" 
Following the rules starting on page 181 of the Adventures in Middle-earth Player’s Guide, heroes may be required 
to make Corruption checks when entering, traversing or tarrying in a blighted area. But there might be something 
more in store for those who wander in such accursed lands — if an area has been corrupted beyond healing, its 
sorrowful past may haunt the Company.
•	
If you fail a Corruption check with a natural 1, the hero is directly affected by the tragic history of the place, 
slipping into a dream-like state while awake, or having lucid dreams about the past when asleep. Roll 1d6 and 
consult the following chart.
1: Haunted. The hero gains 1 point of Shadow as normal and for the following day and night suffers a number 
of additional nightmarish apparitions, equal to 6 minus his current Wisdom modifier (to a minimum of 1). The 
Loremaster describes the visions, taking into consideration that they are direct manifestations of the blight plaguing 
the area. Each additional vision causes the haunted hero to automatically gain another point of Shadow. 
For example, a hero fails her Corruption check with a natural 1 while in a dark corner of the Old Forest and then 
receives this result. She is now haunted, and in the following 24 hours she will see things nobody else will see, like 
rotting trees attempting to strangle her, or stumble upon open graves containing the corpses of travellers who lost 
their path in the forest. 
2-5: Minor Insight. The hero gains Shadow as normal and experiences visions granting a minor insight into the 
source of corruption of the area, generally going back to the time when the place endured its most tragic occurrences. 
Visions and dreams are experienced in first person, and the player-hero is unable to do anything but witness the 
outcome of events inevitably leading to a tragic ending (but always providing some useful information). 
A hero experiences a minor insight while in the Barrow-downs. He appears lost in thought and mumbles to himself in 
an arcane language while marching along. When the hero eventually snaps out of his reverie, he tells of how he was 
looking out of the window of his home a moment before, looking out over his family’s lands while the host of Angmar 
was drawing close, burning and pillaging… the ruins of a burned farmstead is buried somewhere in the vicinity.

--- PAGE 111 ---
111
The Battle of Azanulbizar (2799)
After six years of war, in 2799, Thráin was ready at last to 
come to Khazad-dûm. From the very start of the campaign, 
Dwarf scouts had watched the Orcs and studied the lay of 
the land surrounding the East gate. In the winter weeks 
leading up to the final battle, Thráin conferred with the 
fathers of the Dwarf Houses. They all agreed that battle 
would be joined in the Dimrill Dale, next to the sacred 
waters of the Mirrormere: Azanulbizar. 
Yet, Azog had not sat idle. His host was still vast and, as 
the Dwarves arrived at Azanulbizar, his horde met them 
there, arrayed for the last great battle of the war. 
The Orcs stood ready on the higher ground afforded 
by the slopes of the surrounding mountain peaks, 
Redhorn, Silvertine and Cloudyhead. The creatures were 
emboldened during that cold and dark winter day for 
they were many and the sun was hidden. 
Below them, the Dwarves stood outnumbered atop a hill 
to the east of the Dimrill Stairs. With a great shout, Thráin 
sounded the charge, and the battle commenced. 
The Battle of Azanulbizar has been described in great 
detail in many songs and tales. Suffice it to say here that 
the Dwarves conquered their foe, but at great cost. Azog 
was slain by the red axe of Dáin, but so too was fully half 
the Dwarven host lost that day.
Aftermath
In the aftermath of the battle, Azog’s head was mounted 
upon a great spike, his host destroyed or fled, but there 
was to be no feast nor song, only silent grief. It was not 
possible to bury so many fallen Dwarves, so the bodies 
were stripped of arms and armour so they could not be 
looted, and then the fallen warriors were laid on a massive 
pyre. The surrounding forest was hewn to provide fuel for 
the fire, the pall of smoke rising from the flames so great 
the reek could be smelled in Lothlórien. Though Thráin 
sought to reclaim Moria, Dáin persuaded him of his folly. 
Durin’s Bane remained within the Black Pit; this was no 
home for the Dwarves. Instead, the Dwarves dispersed 
once again to their distant homes and exiled havens. 
For many, it was enough that the Orcs had been defeated, 
leaving the Misty Mountains free of their taint for over a 
century. The cost, though, had been terribly high, and it is 
a rare veteran who speaks of the horrors of the long, cruel 
war. But they remember… 
6: Major Insight. The hero does not gain Shadow, and experiences visions granting a major insight. When this 
happens, the hero sees things that took place in the area at any time in its past (Loremaster’s choice). Visions and 
dreams are again experienced in first person, but in this case the player-hero may alter the vision, taking action 
while in his dream-self. In game terms, the player can frame the hero’s actions so that they pose a question to 
which the Loremaster must provide a reasonable answer. The question must naturally concern the Blighted place 
or the surrounding area. Regardless of the events occurring in the vision, the player may never avoid the inevitable 
dramatic outcome of the experience. 
The same hero experiencing a major insight would get to narrate how he reacted upon seeing the advancing army; 
maybe he ran downstairs, looking for his family sword. If the Loremaster accepts the suggestion, it might reveal 
some treasure hidden nearby. 
The War of the Dwarves and Orcs

--- PAGE 112 ---
Lonely Mountain Region Guide
112
Treasures of the War 
of Vengeance
"I have heard that there are still forgotten treasures of old 
to be found in the deserted caverns of the mines of Moria, 
since the dwarf and goblin wars." 
The Dwarf-host that marched to war was equipped with 
arms and armour of exquisite craftsmanship, and who 
knows what other treasures. Although the survivors of the 
Battle of Azanulbizar stripped the dead of their weapons 
and armour, who knows what was lost that day? A 
Loremaster seeking to use the history of the War of the 
Dwarves and Orcs in his campaign might add some of the 
following treasures to his Magical Treasure Index. 
Wondrous Artefacts
Of all the heirlooms of the house of Durin, perhaps the 
most powerful one was wielded in secret by Thráin… 
Durin’s Ring
The first of the Seven Rings of Power given to the Dwarf 
lords, Durin’s Ring was said to have been given to Durin 
III not by Sauron but by the Elves themselves. The ring 
was said to breed gold from gold, but it also inflamed 
the bearer’s heart to greed. Durin’s Ring was lost to the 
Necromancer, but what then became of it? 
(Greater Blessing of Investigation, Curse of Weakness) 
Legendary Weapons and Armour
During the War, few Dwarves had time to attend to their 
smith-craft, but ancient and treasured devices of old were 
yet again employed to devastating effect.
The Armour of Náin
Type: Ring-mail 
Craftsmanship: Dwarven 
Banes: n/a 
Qualities: 1. Cunning Make 2. Rune-scored Armour 
Notes: The force of the blow that Azog struck Náin was 
strong enough to break his neck, but it could not pierce 
his armour. Small comfort to the Dwarf, no doubt, but 
testimony to the craftsmanship of the smiths of the Iron 
Hills who made it. 
The Red Axe of Dáin 
Type: Great Axe 
Craftsmanship: Dwarven 
Banes: n/a 
Qualities: 1. Fell 2. Grievous 3. Gleam of Terror 
Notes: Dáin slew Azog with a blow from his red axe, 
cutting his head off. But surely Dáin kept his axe when he 
returned to the Iron Hills; so why does this weapon bear 
his name, and a blade stained crimson with the blood of 
Orcs? 
Dwarven Grudges
…in [their] hearts still burns the ancient fire of Aulë the 
Smith, and the embers smoulder of their long grudge 
against the Elves… 
Dwarves are a staunch folk, intended by their Maker to 
oppose firmly any domination. It is said that even the 
seven Rings of Power could not enslave the will of their

--- PAGE 113 ---
113
bearers. But Dwarves are not free from the threat of the 
Shadow; in many ways they are affected by its corruption 
more subtly and more profoundly. 
During a Fellowship phase, a Dwarven hero may opt to 
develop a grudge, representing the stirring of a personal 
animosity, emanating from ancient grievances and slights 
suffered by the Dwarf-folk in their long history. To do so, 
the player cannot choose any undertaking during the 
phase, and annotates the new sentiment on his character 
sheet, by writing Grudge, followed by the name of the 
folk the feeling is directed to in parentheses. For example: 
Grudge (Bardings). 
The chosen folk must belong to the Free Peoples, and 
possibly be one that the character (or the Dwarven folk at 
large) has had contact with previously (mainly Bardings, 
Beornings, Wood-Elves and Woodmen, but possibly the 
Riders of Rohan or Bree-folk). Then, the player removes all 
temporary Shadow points accumulated so far, gaining 1 
permanent Shadow point. (Any previously accumulated 
permanent Shadow points are retained too.) A Dwarf hero 
may only develop a single grudge. 
The positive aspect of nurturing resentment is that the 
Dwarf now may focus his frustrations and sense of 
discomfort, easily finding relief.
•	
From this moment on, whenever the Dwarven hero 
chooses the Heal Corruption undertaking, you do 
not need to make a check, and instead reduce your 
Shadow rating by 4 points, as if you had rolled a 25 
or better. 
But of course there is a negative aspect in being bitter, as 
it worsens the attitude of the Dwarf hero when he deals 
with members of the folk he begrudges (members of the 
Company excluded).
•	
When the Dwarven hero takes part in an Audience 
comprising individuals who are the object of the 
grudge, he must pass a Corruption check (a Wisdom 
saving throw) or suffer a deep sense of discomfort 
and irritation, gaining the character a Shadow point. 
The difficulty of the check is DC 10 plus the Dwarf’s 
current Shadow score. 
Frár ends the current Adventuring phase with 9 Shadow 
points. Deeming the amount to be dangerous (his Wisdom 
score is 10), he decides to reduce his Shadow score by 
cultivating a grudge. Frár’s company has had a rough 
time recently due to the deeds of a band of mercenaries 
from the Dalelands; during the following Fellowship 
phase, the Dwarf’s player determines that Frár gives in 
to his folk’s old dislike for Northmen and annotates that 
now his character has a grudge towards Bardings. 
Frár’s Shadow score of 9 is replaced by a single permanent 
Shadow point. From now on, Frár will easily vent off 
steam by blaming those Northmen for his misfortune and 
that of his folk, but will find it hard to hide his vexation in 
their presence. 
The War of the Dwarves and Orcs

--- PAGE 114 ---
Lonely Mountain Region Guide
114
EXPLORING THE
- RESTORED -
KINGDOMS
...all the valley had become tilled again and rich, 
and the desolation was now filled with birds 
and blossoms in spring and fruit and feasting 
in autumn.
While the land around the City and the Mountain are 
the domain of King Bard, there are still dangers to be 
encountered there. They can be a more subtle sort — 
nobles with ambitions that might set them on the wrong 
path or well-meaning folk that are misguided — or they 
can be the ordinary challenges of life in Middle-earth. But 
beyond the borders of the growing kingdom, the Wild is 
still the Wild and the North is some of the wildest. The 
Grey Mountains, the Waste and the Withered Heath are 
simply stiff with Goblins, Hobgoblins, and Orcs, not to 
mention other monsters that can test the mettle of the 
most experienced adventuring companies.
And within the walls of Dale there are dangers too. 
Companions that do not hesitate to hike a hundred miles 
through the worst weather might delay before venturing 
into the Brokenstone after nightfall.
Urban Journeys
While going from one end of Dale to another might 
certainly be an adventure, it doesn’t really qualify 
for breaking out the journey rules themselves. But 
Loremasters that wish to add a bit of colour to a trip 
across town might want to roll a d12 and consult the basic 
Journey Event table (see pages 62-63 in the Loremaster’s 
Guide or the first entry in each of the tables below).
Instead of using the result in a literal sense, you can 
interpret the event into an urban setting. “A Chance 
Encounter” or “In Need of Help” are straightforward, but 
perhaps “A Fine Spot for a Camp” means the heroes see 
a new inn under construction and might want to visit it 
when their present adventure is concluded. 
It’s not too likely (though not impossible!) to see a Goblin 
within Dale but “Agents of the Enemy” might mean running 
into someone that one of the companions has quarreled 
with before or witnessing a crime first-hand.
By putting a little bit of a spin on the results, you can help 
bring a city like Dale to life. And, if you roll the dice and 
it doesn’t seem to suit the situation then perhaps nothing 
remarkable happened on that trip. Or you can give your 
players the general category and ask them for suggestions. 
That way the players themselves can be involved in the 
growing kingdom.
Long
     Lake
Long Marshes
Forest River
Elf-path
E
Esgaroth
E Dale
E
Erebor
E
Elven King’s
Halls
The Waste
Enchanted 
Stream
E
Edric’s Town
E Galford
E Strandburg
E Castle
Orlmond

--- PAGE 115 ---
115
A Chance Encounter
The Company meets a fellow traveller or group of travellers. 
The Scout must make a Dexterity (Stealth) check to avoid 
them, or any hero may make a Charisma (Persuasion) 
check to interact with them.
If the interaction is successful, the first roll of the next event 
is made with Advantage. Failure results in Disadvantage.
Dwarven Crafters 
The Company has encountered a group of Dwarves 
travelling for business reasons. They might be on the hunt 
for raw materials and a hero that points them on the 
right way with a successful Wisdom (Survival) check will 
be rewarded with news from the Mountain. Otherwise, 
the Dwarves are going to or from Erebor and by making 
an Intelligence (Traditions) check at Disadvantage the 
Company can have their assistance for next handful of 
days as their path temporarily joins that of the heroes.
Farmfolk
Most of the lands near to the Mountain have been 
reclaimed for the twin Kingdoms and rich farmsteads now 
occupy what was once a bleak and barren landscape. The 
Company have come across some of the folk who tend the 
new fields and can easily trade news with them by making 
an Intelligence (Traditions) check at Advantage.
Hunters
The Company’s path has temporarily encroached upon 
someone’s hunting grounds. Close to the Mountain, this 
might be fallow land set aside by the King’s decree or further 
afield where no lord’s command prevents the common folk 
from catching dinner on the hoof or the wing. In any case, 
the Scout must succeed at the check to avoid interrupting 
the hunt. If successful, the Company might linger and then 
make a Charisma (Persuasion) check to talk with the 
hunters afterwards.
Local Minor Noble
Bard has bought much labour for Dale by the generous 
granting of titles. The lands about the Mountain (and many 
of the richer residences in the city) are now home to newly 
minted nobility. Many of these men and women are practical 
sorts who have struggled and sweated for the Kingdom 
but some are much more concerned with the privileges 
they’ve accrued rather than their duties. Any Charisma 
(Persuasion) checks are made with Disadvantage unless 
the Company has members with high standing in either 
Dale or Erebor.
Merchants from Lake-town
Dale and Esgaroth have a long history together and trade 
comes and goes up and down the River Running at all 
times of the year. Those merchants who don’t trust to the 
water for their goods are still likely to be found following 
the footpaths beside the river as they travel to or from the 
Lonely Mountain. A companion who takes the time to at 
least examine the wares of the merchants they’ve met gains 
Advantage on their Charisma (Persuasion) check to get 
news out of the travellers.
Those who Heeded Bard’s Call 
When the King asked for those of strength and courage 
to restore the North many folk answered. Some are 
emissaries, come to take the measure of the new kingdom 
and learn what gains in profit or power their lord would 
gain from assisting or thwarting Bard. Others are more 
personally interested in fortune and fame and have the 
war gear and determination to succeed. The Company has 
come across other folk who are active in the area for many 
of the same reasons as their own. If the two groups meet as 
allies both dedicated to the success of Dale, then the heroes 
have Advantage on any Charisma (Persuasion) checks. 
If they see each other as rivals, then either a Charisma 
(Intimidation) or Intelligence (Riddle) check is in order 
instead.
Journey Event Table Entry 1 (or less)
Exploring the Restored Kingdoms

--- PAGE 116 ---
Lonely Mountain Region Guide
116
Of Herbs and Stewed Rabbit
The Hunter has an opportunity to gather food. They must 
make a Wisdom (Survival) check. You have Advantage if 
the Company won Feasts Fit for the Kings of Ancient Times, 
or Disadvantage if you face Meagre Supplies and Poor 
Meals. 
If successful, you either gather food (restore a level of 
Exhaustion or 1 Hit Die to each hero) or collect herbs 
(Loremaster’s choice of herbs found). If you fail then the 
Arrival roll gains a -1 penalty.
The Grey Mountains
There are small herds of red deer in the valleys of the 
Mountains for a determined Hunter to find. There are also 
hares, badgers, wolverines, mice, bears and wolves in the 
lowlands, with sheep and mountain goats on the steeper 
slopes. You can find clover, chicory, fireweed, sheep 
sorrel and white mustard in the mountains. Kingcups 
reveal themselves with the snow-melt and shaded valleys 
sometimes hide shadow-thorn as well. 
The Long Marshes
Beavers and wild boars live amidst the reeds, joining 
widgeons and grouse. Woodpeckers tap at willow trees, 
mindful of Gallows-weed. A patient stalker can collect a 
brace of frogs with relative ease, though some kinds are 
poisonous unless cooked carefully. In the water itself are 
eels, tench, roach and rudd along with otters. 
The roots of reedmace are excellent as food as well as a 
curative and the head of the plant before it flowers is quite 
delicious. It is also easy to find curled dock and plantains in 
the marshes. Water-lilies and Hagweed are also common.
The Nether Marches
There are less deer here than in the Upper Marches but 
more hares. Careful hunters can find minks along the 
banks of the small streams here that hold graylings and 
brown trout. Partridges, grouse, pigeon and turtle-doves 
hide from harriers and goshawks. Chickweed, clovers, field 
pennycress, milkweed, sheep sorrel and white mustard 
plants can all be found here. Water lilies can sometimes be 
found in the slower parts of the Redwater and it is rumoured 
that shadow-thorn can be found in the Netherwood.
The Northern Dalelands
In addition to the elk and deer herds, there are hares, stoats 
and other rodents such as lemmings. Wild sheep and goats 
can also be found. Wood grouse, snowy owls, partridges, 
ravens and woodpecker occupy the skies. Trout, char, perch, 
powan, pikes and graylings fill the streams that wash down 
from the Grey Mountains to feed the River Running and the 
Long Lake.
A patient Hunter can find wood sorrel, sheep sorrel, 
fireweed, pennycress and chicory in the Dalelands, along 
with many fields of corn kept by farmers. Kingcups can 
sometimes be found and shadow-thorn grows at the eaves 
of Mirkwood.
The Upper Marches
There are many herds of roe deer and lesser creatures like 
hares and hedgehogs to be found. The streams of the area 
carry trouts, pikeperch, carps and eels. Sparrowhawks, 
white-tailed eagles, swifts, plovers, and teals join storks 
from the distant south in the sky. 
Depending on the season, wild berries, hazel nuts, clover, 
nettles, wild onions and sorrel can be found. Kingcups can 
sometimes be found in the meadows of this region.
The Waste
There is little hunting to be had in the Waste. You 
automatically have Disadvantage on the check and any 
success means you have found just enough small things 
(hares, mice, scraggly plants) to keep hunger’s edge away.
Journey Event Table Entry 2

--- PAGE 117 ---
117
An Obstacle
Something blocks the path ahead. The Guide must make a 
Wisdom (Survival) check and each other companion must 
make either Wisdom (Survival) or Strength (Athletics). If 
the Company has horses or ponies, one hero must make 
a Wisdom (Animal Handling) check. All checks have 
Advantage if they are on Paths both Swift and True, or 
Disadvantage if they face The Wearisome Toil of Many 
Leagues.
If all are successful, the Arrival roll gains +1. If half or more 
are successful, there is no penalty. If more than half failed 
then each hero gains a level of Exhaustion. If all fail add a 
-1 penalty to the Arrival roll to the Exhaustion.
Already Occupied
The way that the Guide has chosen already has other 
travellers of some kind. If they are ordinary folk, then 
the Guide might make an Intelligence (Traditions) or 
Charisma (Intimidation) check to allow the Company 
to pass. Otherwise, the Guide is forced to either wait 
awkwardly until the path forward is clear (causing each 
member of the Company to gain one level of Exhaustion 
but no check is required) or find a new way forward, using 
the base rules above.
Dead End
The trail or path that the Company has been following 
comes to a sudden end, disappearing into the grass or 
a silent stone wall. This catches the Guide by surprise 
and she must make a Wisdom (Survival) check with 
Disadvantage. If successful, then all other members of the 
Company gain Advantage on their required checks as she 
quickly plots another route.
False Path
The Guide has been fooled by some deception, intentional 
or not. They might have taken the wrong turn at the last 
crossroads, or followed a sign moved by bandits to steer 
traffic into their trap. If the Guide makes the Wisdom 
(Survival) check then he also gains a point of Shadow as 
he realises that he has wasted hours of the Company’s time 
and must now backtrack.
Patch of Desolation
While much of the land around the Mountain has been 
reclaimed, the Company has managed to stumble into a 
place where death and dreariness still reigns. If the entire 
Company fails their check, instead of modifying the Arrival 
roll each member gains 1 point of Shadow.
Rockslide
A landslip has occurred and the known ways forward are 
now blocked by rubble and rocks. Even on a success, the 
Company has lost precious time going around and will not 
reach their destination when expected. Apply a -1 modifier 
to the Arrival roll regardless of whether the heroes succeed 
or fail.
Swift and Cold Waters
The Company must cross the quick and frigid waters of the 
North. This might be the River Running or the Redwater or 
one of their lesser tributaries. In the autumn or spring the 
checks must be made at Disadvantage.
Journey Event Table Entry 3
Exploring the Restored Kingdoms

--- PAGE 118 ---
Lonely Mountain Region Guide
118
In Need of Help
The Company meets someone who needs aid. If they choose 
not to assist each hero must make a Wisdom saving throw 
to avoid a Shadow Point.
If they do help, they make three checks, usually from 
Animal 
Handling, 
Insight, 
Medicine, 
Nature, 
Persuasion, Survival or Traditions.
If all checks are successful then all heroes gain Inspiration 
and +1 to the Arrival Roll. If two checks are successful then 
one hero gains Inspiration and +1 to the Arrival Roll. If one 
check is successful then +1 to Arrival Roll. If all rolls fail 
then a -1 modifier is applied to the Arrival Roll.
House Fire
All it takes is one moment of inattention for a cook-fire 
to get out of control. Fortunately, the Company manages 
to stumble across the farmstead just when the house or 
an outbuilding has caught fire. The heroes must make 
Strength (Athletics) checks to fight the blaze directly or 
perhaps use Intelligence (Riddle) checks to know where 
to cut firebreaks. Those who fail in their checks fighting 
against the fire gain a level of Exhaustion from the smoke 
and heat.
Merchants’ Mishap
Ahead there is a tipped over cart, broken open strongbox 
or other signs of a robbery. One or more merchants are 
there as well. Their response to the arrival of the Company 
depends on the heroes’ approach. If the heroes are cautious 
and call out in advance then they might hear a sad tale 
of woe but if they rush in with swords drawn then the 
merchants will mistake them for more bandits. Sometimes, 
clever thieves might pretend to be victims in order to trick 
the companions into letting their guard down and the 
companions are instread rushing into a trap.
Miner Trouble
There are many ancient Dwarven mine-shafts in the Iron 
Hills, Grey Mountains and even a few lesser workings near 
to Erebor itself. A group of miners has become trapped — 
perhaps an earth tremor collapsed part of a shaft, rising 
waters threaten to drown the mine or some dangerous 
creature has them cornered. They are close enough to the 
surface that their calls for aid can be heard, though voices 
can carry for long distances in stone shafts and reaching 
the miners may be more difficult than it first seems. 
Only Athletics, Investigation, Riddle or Survival checks 
can aid the trapped Dwarves.
Overabundant Harvest
There is such a thing as too much of a good thing, as the 
companions might observe. They’ve come across a farmer 
or hunter struggling with something beyond their abilities: 
a crop that threatens to rot on the vine or in the ground 
before all of it can be taken in or an animal taken by the 
hunter that he cannot carry by himself. If the Company 
takes the time to aid in the harvest then not only do they 
gain the gratitude of the farmers or hunters but also gain 
Advantage on their next check for the Hunter due to the fact 
that they now have extra provisions themselves.
Stuck Caravan
The weather has been terrible for several days now, 
and thus it is not unsurprising to find other travellers in 
distress. The Company comes across a caravan of farmers’ 
wagons heading to Dale or Lake-town, a merchant craft 
run aground along the River Running or Redwater or some 
other group stranded. Muscle and tenacity (Athletics) 
will certainly solve the problem or perhaps clever thinking 
(Riddle).
Victims of Sark
The companions hear desperate cries for help from ahead 
or stumble across a scene of devastation when suddenly 
one of the bodies moves and reaches out for assistance. 
The Company has come across a recent attack by Sark 
the Bear-skinned. The raiders are too far away to reliably 
give chase, but there are folk here who desperately need 
help and healing. Heroes that leave victims to die in order 
to give fruitless chase should receive 2 or more points of 
Shadow. 
Journey Event Table Entry 4

--- PAGE 119 ---
119
Agents of the Enemy
The Company approaches a hostile force. The Look-out 
must make a Wisdom (Perception) check to spot the 
enemy early. The Look-out has Advantage if the Company is 
Hidden from the Shadow or Disadvantage if they face The 
Keen Eyes of the Enemy. These modifiers apply to any rolls 
made outside of combat.
If successful, they may either sneak away or ambush them 
(in which case the enemy is Surprised). If failed, the enemy 
sets an ambush and the Player-heroes are Surprised.
Agents of Lord Hakon (CR 4)
If the Company has interfered in the plans of Lord Hakon 
(especially during the course of Erebor Adventures) they 
may be pursued by his agents. Use the City Guards on page 
48, one guard for each hero, but the corrupt soldiers do 
not have their Silver Whistles. They are led by one of his 
lieutenants, a guard commander (page 49).
Devastation of a Dragon (CR 6)
The Company has come across a place where a mighty 
Dragon slew many people, causing much grief. Now the 
dead do not rest easily, remembering the pain of Dragon-
fire and the malice of the Dragon-spell. 
If the Company lingers here, they will attacked by Fell 
Wraiths (page 84 of Rivendell Region Guide), made stronger 
by being a Formidable troupe (page 70 of the same 
volume).
Garrick (CR 4)
The Company comes across Garrick of the Black Arrow 
(see page 58) and his ruffians (three Thugs for every two 
heroes). They are likely to demand payment from the 
heroes — a toll for guarding the road, crossing a bridge or a 
fee for camping in his lands or whatever Garrick thinks he 
can get away with. If it comes to blows he and his fellows 
will flee any determined opposition only to later try and 
create more trouble for the heroes. 
Marsh-dwellers (CR 3)
A group of Marsh-dwellers (one for each member of 
the Company) lies in wait in a mere of stagnant water 
somewhere near the path of the heroes. These monsters are 
Gimlet Eyed (see Loremaster’s Guide, page 117) and will 
wait until nightfall to attack.
Sark and his Raiders (CR 6)
Sark is out raiding near to the Company’s path. He is 
accompanied by one Outlaw (page 75 of the Loremaster’s 
Guide) for each companion. If the heroes manage to get 
the upper hand, the half-orc has no compunctions about 
leaving his fellows behind and escaping into the wilderness.
Soldiers of the Serpent (CR 5)
One of Rugash’s scouting parties has caught wind of the 
Company and has decided to investigate further. Heroes 
that are cautious and stealthy might learn more than they 
like about the Serpent and his plans against the Mountain. 
If the heroes are discovered, there are a Snaga Tracker and 
two Orc Soldiers for each companion to deal with.
Journey Event Table Entry 5
Exploring the Restored Kingdoms

--- PAGE 120 ---
Lonely Mountain Region Guide
120
The Wonders of Middle-earth
The Company is presented with a spectacular sight. Each 
hero must make either a Wisdom check or an Intelligence 
(Investigation) check. These checks are made with 
Advantage in Fair Weather and Disadvantage under Foul 
Weather.
If successful, the hero recovers one level of Exhaustion or 
gains one if they fail. If all heroes succeed, gain a +1 to 
the Arrival Roll or if all fail then the Arrival Roll gains a -1 
penalty.
Mighty Works of Old
This is not the first time that Dwarves have laboured under 
the Mountain, nor is it the first time that the bell towers of 
Dale have been raised. The Company has stumbled upon 
a reminder of the history of these places. If you succeed at 
your check and are a Dwarf or are from the North (Bardings 
or Men of Lake-town) then you gain Inspiration in addition 
to the other benefits.
Nature’s Majesty
The Company has some chance to sight some impressive 
display of wildlife, perhaps herds of red deer, great elk or 
the legendary reindeer of the Forod as they migrate through 
the Withered Heath. Closer to the Mountain, it might be the 
sight of a great eagle far above that stirs the hearts of the 
Company.
Quiet Moments in the Morning
In the early morning hours, when the sun has just 
risen and the land has yet to fully awaken, there is 
time for contemplation. If you spend this time in quiet 
contemplation, you can make an Intelligence (Riddle) 
check instead of the Wisdom check.
Sunset in the Mountains
The sun disappears quickly in the West when the mountains 
cloud the horizon, but the last light of the day lingers for a 
long time. Those who live here are used to this warm golden 
light, but travellers might benefit from it. Heroes that are 
very close to their destination might press on. If you do so, 
make your checks with Disadvantage. If successful still, add 
a +3 instead of +1 to your Arrival Roll.
The View from On High
The Company has the chance to see the land from an 
unusual perspective, perhaps because they’re high on a 
mountain trail or were able to visit one of the terraces of 
the Lonely Mountain or the highest towers of Dale. If you 
succeed at your check you gain Inspiration in addition to 
the other benefits.
Well-tired at Day’s End
The companions are truly weary at the end of the day, but 
they also know in their hearts that they have accomplished 
much good today. It might have been great deeds worthy of 
a song, or it might be smaller victories that have meaning 
only for themselves. 
A hero that succeeds at their check can choose to either 
remove 1 point of temporary Shadow and gain Inspiration 
or recover a level of Exhaustion instead. 
Journey Event Table Entry 6

--- PAGE 121 ---
121
A Hunt
The Hunter has a particularly excellent chance to catch a 
good meal. The Hunter must make a Wisdom (Survival) 
check. These checks are made with Advantage with Feasts 
Fit for the Kings of Ancient Times, and Disadvantage if the 
Company has Meagre Supplies and Poor Meals.
If successful by 5 or more, all heroes recover a level of 
Exhaustion and the Company gains +1 to the Arrival Roll. 
Other successes recover a level of Exhaustion only. If the 
check fails then the Company gains a level of Exhaustion. If 
the Hunter fails by 5 or more add a -1 penalty to the Arrival 
Roll.
The Grey Mountains
The Hunter has the chance to catch one of the famed 
Dwarven mountain-goats. But the creature is high up and 
unafraid of leaping from ledge to ledge. 
You can choose to make a Strength (Athletics) check. If 
successful, you gain Advantage on your Survival check. 
But any failure on the Athletics check means an automatic 
failure, as if you rolled just under what you needed to 
succeed.
The Long Marshes
The Hunter has come across the tracks of some large 
beast of the fens. It’s likely to be a beaver or a wild hog. 
Unfortunately, the Hunter will need to traverse many areas 
of sucking mud and stinging insects to pursue the prey. You 
can choose to give yourself a level of Exhaustion in order to 
gain Advantage on the Survival check.
The Nether Marches
While herds of roe deer are less common here, there are 
still some. The Hunter has caught sight of one such herd. 
However, the Company must be careful — the deer are in 
strange lands and even more cautious than normal. If 
you can succeed on a Dexterity (Stealth) check, you gain 
Advantage on your Survival check. If you choose to make 
the Stealth check and fail it, the herd is spooked and the 
Survival check is failed, as if you rolled just under what 
you needed to succeed.
The Northern Dalelands
The Hunter has chanced across a sheep or goat that is 
almost certainly a wild beast, though it might have escaped 
from a farmer years ago. The creature is an easy catch but 
is scrawny and does not easily satisfy well-worn travellers. 
You have Advantage on your Survival check but any 
success only allows you to recover Exhaustion, not to get a 
bonus to your Arrival Roll.
The Upper Marches
Among the hunters of Dale, the Kine of Araw are legendary 
and it chances that determined folk sometimes spy one of 
the small herds moving across the plains of the Marches. 
Getting close enough to get a good shot without causing 
them to flee or trample the would-be hunter is a stiff 
challenge but a single beast can feed a Company for 
weeks. 
Any further rolls involving the Hunter on this journey can 
be considered to be passed automatically, as if the Hunter 
rolled exactly what was needed to achieve the DC.
The Waste
The Waste is an empty land and not even Béma himself 
could find a catch worthy of the name. Any success here 
represents a tightening of the belts and making do with 
what little things that are good to eat can be found.
Journey Event Table Entry 7
Exploring the Restored Kingdoms

--- PAGE 122 ---
Lonely Mountain Region Guide
122
A Fine Spot for a Camp
The Scout has spotted a location that might make an 
excellent campsite. Make an Intelligence (Investigation) 
check.
If the check succeeds by 5 or more then the Company 
recovers a level of Exhaustion and gains +1 to the Arrival 
Roll. On a basic success the Company recovers a level of 
Exhaustion. On a failure the Company gains a level of 
Exhaustion. On a failure of 5 or more the Company is in 
danger and might face enemies. They also gain Exhaustion 
and a -1 penalty to the Arrival Roll.
High Hillock
Whether the Company are in the Long Marshes or the 
flat-lands of the Marches, they have been lucky enough to 
come across a hillock that rises above the rest of the low 
landscape. 
If you score any sort of success the night passes uneventfully 
and each member of the Company gains Inspiration from 
the break in the monotony. But you fail, then your position 
of prominence has attracted some sort of attention and 
there will be trouble of some sort before the night is out.
Mountain Trail
The companions are hiking somewhere in the heights (the 
Grey Mountains, Iron Hills or perhaps the northern slopes 
of Erebor) when the perfect spot for a campsite presents 
itself. It is a little cul-de-sac with a rock overhang to keep 
the weather away, big enough for all the members of the 
Company and their animals but cozy enough to keep warm 
with a small fire that shouldn’t attract too much attention. 
But, as Thorin’s Company discovered when they crossed 
the Misty Mountains, sometimes campsites that seem 
perfect prove themselves perfectly dangerous instead.
Noble’s Camp
The Scout has found an excellent place to stop for the night, 
but unfortunately it belongs to someone else. It’s possible 
that the camp is currently occupied (in which case an 
Intelligence (Traditions) or Charisma (Persuasion) 
check is needed to allow the Company to join the noble’s 
group) or it might just be stocked and prepared in case 
the noble and her hunting party come this way. In such 
cases, it’s a minor misdeed to use the campsite without 
permission. If the companions use up the camp supplies 
without even attempting to replace them then they should 
accrue even more Shadow points.
Ruins of the Lost Past
The bones of old buildings often provide excellent campsites, 
as their builders were searching for the same things that the 
Scout is — good, even, flat ground close to a water source, 
untroubled by storms or dangerous creatures. But they are 
also melancholy places that make one think of those people 
who once called this place home and what caused them to 
abandon it long ago.
If the Scout fails the Investigation check each hero must 
make a Corruption check, a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw 
or gain a point of Shadow as the companions’ talk turns to 
tragic tales of long ago.
Safety in the Waste
The Scout has found a cleft between two rock outcroppings 
in the barren landscape of the Waste. Here there is shelter 
from the wind and the sun and soil underneath is cool and 
moist. It is not much, but it is the best that can be expected 
in these lands. You have Advantage on the check, but gain 
a point of Shadow if you fail. In this case, the shelter is not 
everything that it seemed to be and the companions spent 
their time there without rest.
Shelter from the Storm
The forecast is taking a turn for the worse and the Company 
can see some place ahead where they can escape the 
weather. If the Scout succeeds all is well and the heroes can 
take some pleasure in listening to the rain outside as they 
stay warm and dry inside. But if the check is failed then the 
storm has driven something else to take shelter here too 
and the companions must deal with it, via diplomacy or 
force of arms.
Journey Event Table Entry 8

--- PAGE 123 ---
123
A Lingering Memory of Times Long Past
The Company discovers a relic of past ages. Each companion 
must make a Wisdom check.
If successful, the hero gains Inspiration. If you succeed by 5 
or more, you may remove a level of Exhaustion. If the hero 
fails, you must make a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or 
gain 2 points of Shadow. If you fail the initial check by 5 or 
more, you must make the saving throw and gain a level of 
Exhaustion.
If at least half the Company succeed at the check, add +1 
to the Arrival Roll. Otherwise apply a -1 modifier instead. 
Casualties of Smaug
The Dragon’s descent upon the Mountain was sudden 
and his devastation was vast. The Company has come 
across some memory of Smaug’s initial attack — a burned 
farmstead, broken watchtower or stone cottage rent by 
his talons. If the heroes pursue another Dragon then any 
failure here reminds them of the power possessed by their 
foe and each companion gains a point of Shadow.
Elven Expedition
It is rare for the Elves of Mirkwood to travel great distances 
in the open, but when their king wishes to replenish his 
stores of Dorwinion wine they will make a long journey. 
The Company might come across a current expedition but 
more likely they have found something left behind on the 
previous trip. But the First-born rarely let anything fall by 
chance and there might be some greater significance to the 
find. Perhaps it signifies a secret place nearby where the 
travelling Elves keep supplies or it is a warning to those that 
follow that there is danger nearby.
The Kings of Rhovanion
Over a thousand years ago, a great kingdom of Men 
flourished between the eaves of Mirkwood and the Celduin 
and its princes were strong allies of Gondor, joining them 
in their wars against the Easterlings and once figuring 
into the succession of the southern kings. The Company 
has found some token of that time. While tales of the Men 
of Stone-land travel north with merchants, only the very 
learned amid the North will be able to tell the heroes of the 
significance of their find.
The Old Kingdom
The companions are travelling near to Erebor when they 
come across some reminder of the first Kingdom under the 
Mountain and how the Dwarves departed not to flee the 
terror of a Dragon but to follow the wishes of their king. 
Who is to say that Dáin or his heir will not one day decide 
to remove the throne of Durin’s line once again to the Grey 
Mountains or return it to its rightful home in lost Khazad-
dûm?
Strange Stars
Along the way something has come into the Company’s 
hands from far away. It might be a gift from another 
traveller met along the way or something accidently left 
behind at a well-used campsite. For those who carefully 
study it, a hero might muse that people, even separated 
by thousands of miles and a thousand different traditions, 
are much the same everywhere. Or the less wise may focus 
only on the differences that estrange the Free Peoples from 
each other.
Unlike our Forefathers
One of the companions has recovered some working of 
the Dwarves from before the Dragon descended upon 
the Mountain. Even in its current dilapidated condition 
it is evidence that the craft of long ago exceeds the grasp 
of the smiths working there today. If any Dwarf heroes 
are required to make Corruption checks, they make their 
saving throw with Disadvantage as grief for what was lost 
that day stirs their hearts.
Journey Event Table Entry 9
Exploring the Restored Kingdoms

--- PAGE 124 ---
Lonely Mountain Region Guide
124
A Place Touched by the Shadow
The essence of something dark and terrible lingers here. 
The Scout must make an Intelligence (Investigation) 
check to avoid the area.
If successful, the Company gains a +1 to their Arrival 
Roll. If the Scout succeeds by 5 or more, each hero gains 
Inspiration and may remove 1 temporary Shadow point.
If the Scout fails, each hero must make a DC 15 Wisdom 
saving throw against Corruption or gain 1 point of Shadow. 
If the Scout fails by 5 or more, some dark thing still lurks 
here, ancient and evil… 
An Ancient Grief
Somewhere in the Waste, the heroes have come across 
what looks like the remains of a garden. But the tenders of 
those plants was no ordinary Man or Dwarf, and a sense of 
sadness suffuses the entire area. Long, long ago the lovers 
of growing and fruiting things became estranged from the 
shepherds of the trees and this place is but one reminder of 
that sad tale of long ago.
A Cavern in the Mountains
The heroes have stumbled across a cave entrance in the 
mountains and are investigating it to see if it will serve as a 
safe campsite when they come across a gruesome discovery: 
the bones or other remains of travellers! Whether by losing 
their way in twisting tunnels, succumbing to earlier injuries 
or perhaps being poisoned by water or another substance 
in the cave, the previous campers never left. Even if you 
succeed in your Investigation check, each hero must make 
the Corruption check or gain a Shadow point.
Dragon’s Den
The Company has stumbled across what used to be the 
lair of a Dragon. However, the monster was defeated long 
ago and whatever treasure it once had was recovered by 
its slayers. But the Dragon-spell still lingers and any heroes 
that stay here will soon find their thoughts brooding over 
any ‘unfair’ distribution of wealth in the Company. Each 
companion automatically gains a point of Shadow even if 
you succeed in your Investigation check.
No Way Out
The Company is briefly detained by bad luck: a promising 
trail comes to a dead end, a sudden storm forces the heroes 
to take temporary shelter or a confusing mists prevents 
the Guide from seeing any landmarks at all. But there is 
something else at work too… what would normally be only 
momentary frustration builds in the Scout’s heart and any 
failure sees you lash out at the other companions. Choose 
a hero other than yourself to gain a point of Shadow from 
your tirade.
Pale Enchanted Gold
The Company is travelling in marshlands and the Scout 
has seen the gleam of treasure in the muddy waters around 
them. Standing on a patch of soggy ground, the coins or 
other valuables seem to be resting just under the water 
nearby. But when the hero wades into the water to retrieve 
them, it is revealed that the water is deeper than it seems 
and the gold is further away. Or perhaps the mud stirs and 
the golden gleam of treasure is spied in another part of 
the pond after the disturbance settles. In any case, greedy 
adventurers can easily strain themselves (gaining a level of 
Exhaustion) for only a handful of coins that seem to lose 
their allure out of the water.
A Place of Betrayal
At some time — perhaps recently or many years ago — 
this was the site of treachery and the stones remember 
it even if Men do not. The companions get the sense that 
the Company is not in agreeance on the way forward 
and even settled arguments may flare up again. You have 
Disadvantage on the initial Investigation check but even 
if you fail it by 5 or more Shadow is the only consequence: 
any evil in this place is only what the Company brings with 
them.
Journey Event Table Entry 10

--- PAGE 125 ---
125
The Enemy is Abroad
Evil Men, Orcs, Goblins or other servants of the Enemy are 
moving through the area. If the Company is subject to The 
Keen Eyes of the Enemy, the confrontation is unavoidable, 
if the Look-out makes a Wisdom (Perception) check, the 
enemy is Surprised on the first round of combat.
If the Company is Hidden from the Shadow, the Look-out 
can use Perception or Stealth to avoid the enemy. If the 
check fails, the enemy is still Surprised on the first round 
of combat.
If neither applies, then each member of the Company 
must make a Dexterity (Stealth) check. If the Company 
has horses or ponies then one companion must make a 
Wisdom (Animal Handling) check as well. If any of these 
rolls fails, they have spotted and battle is engaged with no 
advantage to either side.
Hobgoblins of the Worst Sort (CR 8)
A small tribe of Hobgoblins (page 98 of the Loremaster’s 
Guide) is on the prowl and has caught the delicious scent 
of the Company. There are three of them for each member 
of the Company and each is a Biter with Reckless Hatred. 
(Both abilities are found on page 118 of the Loremaster’s 
Guide.)
Kibiluzn’s Army (CR 8)
While the Dragon himself should be the focus of a 
campaign, a Company that ventures too close to his lair 
might find them assaulted by a group of soldiers from his 
army (Goblin Soldiers equal to three times the Company’s 
size and two Goblin Archers for each hero). The entire group 
counts as a Vengeful Band.
Lytegan (CR 7)
The Company will only spy this Dragon if they venture near 
to the Misty Mountains, perhaps sent on a scouting mission 
by a Dwarf-lord to investigate Dwarrowhall (see page 64 of 
the Rhovanion Region Guide). She will try to stay aloft to 
use her speed and fiery breath to her advantage. (See page 
103 for more notes on Lytegan’s strategies in combat.)
Mountain-Troll Pass (CR 12)
The Company has accidentally wandered into the domain 
of a Mountain-troll family. Each member of the troupe 
(one for each hero) has a Thick Hide (page 121 of the 
Loremaster’s Guide). They attack as a group with little 
strategy and will flee when the first of them falls.
Sark the Bear-skinned (CR 11)
If the companions have driven off Sark before, he might 
decide to hunt the Company with more of his raiders. He 
can afford to spend time and their lives to wear down the 
heroes, striking only when they are at their weakest. There 
are two Outlaws for each hero plus Sark himself.
Rugash the Serpent (CR 6)
Rugash the Serpent and his band — one Orc Soldier with 
Dying Frenzy per hero and one Orc Guard with Thrall 
(Rugash) per hero — are nearby. If Rugash has the upper 
hand, he’ll be sure to ambush the Company in terrain that 
favours him.
Journey Event Table Entry 11
Exploring the Restored Kingdoms

--- PAGE 126 ---
Lonely Mountain Region Guide
126
Many Meetings? Fly you Fools!
The companions have encountered a traveller upon 
the road, but all may not be as it at first appears. If the 
Company began the journey under Dark Signs and Evil 
Portents, it is a servant of the Enemy. If they started From 
Auspicious Beginnings then it is one of the great powers 
for good. Otherwise, the Look-out must make a Wisdom 
(Perception) check. 
If the Look-out succeeds by 5 or more, they recognise 
the traveller for someone of great standing and may 
immediately remove 1 Shadow point, gain +1 to their 
Arrival Roll and may seek an Audience with the traveller. 
On a basic success, the traveller’s identity is shielded from 
them and the meeting should use the rules for A Chance 
Encounter. Insight checks may reveal their true identity.
If the check fails, each hero must make a DC 15 Wisdom 
saving throw against Corruption or gain 2 Shadow points. 
They must then hide from the enemy (using the rules in 
The Enemy is Abroad) but also gain a level of Exhaustion 
and -1 penalty to their Arrival Roll. If the Look-out fails by 
5 or more then the Company is automatically spotted and 
they must flee. Each hero gains 2 Shadow points, a level of 
Exhaustion and a -1 to the Arrival Roll.
Bombur
The biggest and heaviest Dwarf you’ve ever seen calls out 
excitedly. He waves to you, asking if you have time to sit and 
chat, perhaps over a meal — for he is surely hungry and you 
must be as well? 
Bombur’s friendliness might have hidden meanings 
behind it, especially as dark forces threaten both City and 
Mountain. He will likely take the measure of the Company 
and, if he finds them honorable folk, point them in the right 
direction.
Captain Elstan
A brave knight with shining armour and a magnificent 
shield sits upon a fine-bred riding horse. He grins, 
delighting in the hunt and being out in the wild. 
This is Sir Elstan, First Captain of Dale. As the tale of years 
progresses, he is more likely to serve in an advisory role 
and leave the fighting itself to younger folk. But when his 
King needs him, he will take on any challenge. 
During the course of Erebor Adventures the Company might 
both aid him in his quests or he might vouch for them in the 
halls of the wise.
Clovis
A Hobbit with a large nose and full head of dark curls 
greying at the ends greets the Company. He asks if they’ve 
seen any trouble on the Road recently? He plans to return 
home soon, to the Southfarthing, in the distant land of the 
halflings.
Clovis is actually the cover identity of Longo the bandit-
lord. He puts on the friendly demeanour to scout out his 
next victims and to learn what infamy Longo has recently 
gathered (and perhaps throw any pursuers off his track). 
If the companions bear open weapons and other war-gear 
he’s likely to pass them by as being too much trouble. 
If the heroes become involved in the events of Erebor 
Adventures they’ll soon learn more than they want to know 
about Longo.
Emissary of the Master
The woman you’ve met on the Road is too well-dressed for 
travelling and frowns at the mud on the hem of her dress. 
You might have taken her for a noble-woman, but her speech 
is of Lake-town and there a family’s business prospects are 
judged higher than the bloodlines of their forebearers. Her 
eyes are stern as she asks you of the way ahead.
Despite her direct mannerisms (learnt from dealing with 
too many silver-tongued merchants), this envoy from the 
new Master of Esgaroth is like her liege — her interest is in 
the safety and prosperity of the folk of Lake-town and she 
works with their best interest in her heart. (If needed, use 
the courtier stats on page 46.)
Journey Event Table Entry 12 (or more)

--- PAGE 127 ---
127
Katun
A middle-aged merchant-woman in Easterling garb 
approaches. She has a friendly smile and offers tea to those 
who would visit with her.
Katun is a successful merchant who grew up far to the East. 
These days she can often be found in the Commons (see 
page 48) or travelling to or from Dale. Her patience and 
wisdom are held in high regard by many folk, especially 
those who are newly arrived to the City of Bells. During the 
course of Erebor Adventures, the Company might be glad of 
her advice if they should chance across her way.
Lord Hakon
A tall man with long grey hair, wearing the clothing of a 
Barding noble leads a small group of Men. He smiles as the 
heroes approach but seems cautious and waits for you to 
introduce yourselves.
Lord Hakon might be met within Dale, or travelling 
anywhere around the Mountain recruiting for his various 
schemes. If the companions are the sort of folks interested in 
morally grey work that comes with some gold and promises 
of more if they help Hakon restore his rightful place then he 
has plenty to offer them. 
If they’re instead suspicious of him, then he will attempt 
to quit their company as soon as possible. Lord Hakon’s 
ambitions are a major thread of Erebor Adventures and his 
reaction to the Company in later years will depend heavily 
on their involvement therein.
Exploring the Restored Kingdoms

--- PAGE 128 ---
Lonely Mountain Region Guide
128
- FOLK OF STONE -
Now that Smaug is dead and the Kingdom under the Mountain restored, many Dwarves have returned to Erebor. Most 
of those were wandering refugees who have had no permanent home other than the Mountain. But not all of the folk of 
the Iron Hills accompanied their lord when he removed to Erebor, and some wanderers in the Grey Mountains venture 
forth to the new kingdom.
All Manner of Dwarves
The Adventures in Middle-earth Player’s Guide gives initial rules for Dwarves hailing from Erebor and the Iron 
Hills. The following information expands — but does not modify — the traits given for Dwarves of the Iron Hills 
as well as provide a new option in the Grey Mountains.

--- PAGE 129 ---
129
- DWARVES OF THE IRON HILLS -
With cries of “Moria!” and “Dáin, Dáin!” the Dwarves of the Iron Hills plunged in… Panic came 
upon the Goblins.
Beyond the Waste, where the river Redwater runs 
swiftly south, rise the Iron Hills, the old
kingdom of Dáin Ironfoot. Named thusly because 
their roots were rich in the metals of martial
craftsmanship, they are the home of a hardy 
breed of Dwarves, survivors who left the Grey 
Mountains almost five hundred years ago under the 
leadership of Grór. For centuries the Dwarves of the Iron 
Hills have toiled in deep places under the earth, in dark 
mines and brightly lit smithies, and the sound of their 
hammers striking anvils has never ceased to ring in 
the surrounding dales and valleys.
Today, the Iron Hills have a new ruler. Dáin 
Ironfoot is now King under the Mountain, and
the best part of his folk followed him to Erebor 
when he took the throne. His young son, Thorin 
Stonehelm, remained behind to act as a steward to 
the King. He currently rules over Dáin’s old abode, 
in the company of his most trusted warriors 
and retainers, and of those who chose not 
to leave their ancient homes to go west 
and rebuild the kingdom under the Lonely 
Mountain.
The remaining Dwarves of the Iron Hills are for the 
most part very much like their young ruler, a proud 
and stern folk, and among them are warriors who 
have seen many wars. Though they are not as rich in 
treasure as are their kin in Erebor, they take great pride in their 
smith-craft, especially in the making of weapons and armour.
Folk of Stone

--- PAGE 130 ---
Lonely Mountain Region Guide
130
Description
The Dwarves of the Iron Hills live the simple but harsh 
life of miners and smiths. They are often gruff and terse 
when dealing with outsiders, as choosing to remain on the 
far eastern edge of the Wild has made them short-spoken, 
short-tempered and often quick to seek out a physical 
solution when a threat arises. 
More pragmatic than their cousins in Erebor, when they 
are on the move they wear simple and functional clothes, 
never carrying anything more than what necessity 
requires. But when they march to war, the gear they carry 
betrays their long tradition of a battle-hardened warrior 
race. The Dwarves of the Iron Hills often sport long, forked 
beards, plaited and thrusted into their belts when they 
travel, fight or work the forge.
Dwarven Names
The Dwarves of the Iron Hills are close kin to those of Erebor 
and the Grey Mountains and have similar names. (See 
page 39 of the Adventures in Middle-earth Player’s Guide 
for more information on Dwarven naming conventions.)
Male Names: Anar, Beli, Bláin, Bruni, Dori, Dwalin, 
Farin, Flói, Frár, Ginar, Grór, Hanar, Hepti, Iari, Lófar, 
Lóni, Náli, Niping, Óin, Ónar, Regin, Svior, Thrór, Veig, 
Vidar.
Female Names: Ase, Astrid, Bergdis, Bodil, Dagna, Dís, 
Eir, Eydis, Frea, Fritha, Gard, Grid, Herja, Hón, Idúnn, 
Ingrid, Kára, Kóna, Már, Mist, Olrún, Onna, Ragni, Róta, 
Sigrún.
Standard of Living
What lies under the roots of the Iron Hills cannot compare 
to the wealth in precious stones and gold that rests below 
Erebor. The death of the Dragon has improved the trade 
between the Iron Hills and the lands to the west, but the 
eastern Dwarves remain much poorer than their western 
cousins. Because of this, their culture ranks as Martial. 
Bonus Equipment: A heavy woollen travelling cloak, 
travelling gear for the current season, a bedroll, a 
backpack, boots, 3d6 silver pennies, plus choose any one: 
another 1d6 silver pennies, artisan’s tools of your choice, 
or a flask of dwarven spirits.
Dwarf Traits
Your Player-hero has certain traits deriving from your 
Dwarven ancestry.
Ability Score Increases – Your Constitution and 
Strength scores increase by 2.
Adventuring Age – 50 to 100. Dwarves generally start 
their life on the road in their fifties, and do not usually 
consider retiring before their nineties. Around that time, 
they feel they can no longer stay away from their family, 
or want to dedicate themselves solely to the perfection 
of their crafts. But Dwarves can remain active until they 
are more than two hundred years old, and may return to 
adventuring if a great need arises, like the opportunity 
to avenge an old insult or injury, or to recover a treasure 
or reclaim a long-lost dwarf-hold. A healthy Dwarf who 
avoids a violent death can reach two hundred fifty years 
of age.
Size – Dwarves generally stand between 4 to 5 feet tall 
and can weigh upwards of 160 lbs. Your size is Medium. 
Speed – Your base walking speed is 25 ft. Your speed is not 
reduced by wearing heavy armour.
Night Vision (Dwarf) – Accustomed to life underground, 
you have superior vision in dim conditions. You can see in 
dim light within 60 ft of you as if it were bright light, but 
you cannot see in the dark.
Dwarven Resilience – You have advantage on saving 
throws against poison, and you have resistance against 
poison damage.
Tools for War – You have proficiency with axes, hand-
axes, great axes, hammers, mattocks and warhammers.
Tool Proficiency – You gain proficiency with the artisan’s 
tools of your choice: jeweller’s tools, mason’s tools, 
miner’s tools, smith’s tools, or woodcarver’s tools. You 
also gain proficiency in one musical instrument of your 
choice.
Stonecunning – Whenever you make an Intelligence 
(History) check related to the origin of stonework, you

--- PAGE 131 ---
131
are considered proficient in the History skill and add 
double your Proficiency Bonus to the check, instead of 
your normal Proficiency Bonus.
Languages – You can speak, read, and write Dalish, 
which is the tongue of the Bardings, who speak an older 
version of the Common Tongue. You can also speak, read 
and write the secret language of your people, which has 
never been shared with any others.
Cultural Attitudes
Those Dwarves of the Iron Hills have the same approach to 
strangers as the Dwarves of Erebor in the Player’s Guide.
Cultural Virtues
Dwarves of the Iron Hills may choose Sworn Allegiance 
(described below), Broken Spells, Durin’s Way, Old Hatred 
and The Stiff Neck of Dwarves (see the Player’s Guide, 
pages 105-107).
Sworn Allegiance
"We are hastening to our kinsmen in the Mountain, since 
we learn that the kingdom of old is renewed."
Your do not give your trust to others easily, but when it 
happens, the bond that is formed is so strong that you 
treat your friends as kinsmen. The first time that you 
complete a long rest during an Adventuring phase you 
gain Inspiration as long as your companions are not 
Paralysed, Petrified, Poisoned, Miserable, Stunned or 
Unconscious. If at least half of the Company are Dwarves, 
you gain Inspiration in this manner after each long rest, 
not just the first one.
Cultural Heirlooms
Dwarves of the Iron Hills may pick the new heirloom 
described below, as well as the following ones listed on 
page 158 of the Player’s Guide: Axe of Azanulbizar, Helm 
of Awe. (The Ironfoot Hauberk replaces the Dwarf-wrought 
Hauberk.)
Ironfoot Hauberk (Ring-mail)
The ancient weaponsmiths of your folk possessed the 
secret of forging a hauberk of steel mail, made of a fine 
and flexible mesh that is especially comfortable and 
lightweight (for a suit of metal armour). 
You do not have Disadvantage on Stealth checks when 
wearing the Ironfoot Hauberk. Furthermore, if you have 
Dexterity of 12 or higher, the armour provides AC 15.
Folk of Stone

--- PAGE 132 ---
Lonely Mountain Region Guide
132
- DWARVES OF THE GREY MOUNTAINS -
But there were Dragons in the wastes beyond; and after many years they became strong again 
and multiplied, and they made war on the Dwarves, and plundered their works.
Long ago, when Durin’s folk fled from Moria, many went north into 
the Grey Mountains. There they found great riches and new wealth, 
and for a time the Dwarves prospered in their mountain holds. 
But soon Dragons came from the Withered Heath and, with the 
death of King Dáin I, the Dwarves were forced to abandon their 
domains. 
Today there is no Dwarven kingdom remaining in 
the Grey Mountains, only cold caverns and ruined 
halls. Those descendants of Dáin I who didn’t go 
east to the Iron Hills or back to Erebor scratch 
out a living as wandering craftsmen and traders 
in Wilderland. With no forge of their own, they 
take work where they can find it, but always look 
north to the lost realm of their ancestors. There 
lie the graves of their forefathers and every Dwarf 
who takes to the road longs for the day when they 
can return home and restore glory to the halls of 
their fathers. 
Now that Smaug is dead, the Dwarves of the Grey 
Mountains look to their kinsmen under the Mountain 
and the Iron Hills with renewed hope. For they 
recognise that before them lies a land where the veil of 
shadow has started to lift, and many believe this to be 
the turning of the tide. They are no longer satisfied to cower in 
the cracks of the earth. Now they take to the road with a 
purpose: they seek to restore their place in the world and 
glory to their lost kingdom.

--- PAGE 133 ---
133
Description
The lean and travel-worn Dwarves of the Grey Mountains 
have a dour look about them and suspicion ever in their 
eyes, but when approached prove to be the most gracious 
of all those belonging to Durin’s Folk, a politeness that is 
probably due to their knowledge of the ways of many lands. 
Often bent over with toil, they sometimes seem slightly 
shorter than their kin – though when they stand tall their 
Longbeard ancestry reveals itself, especially in their proud 
noses and piercing eyes. 
Typically, the Dwarves of the Grey Mountains carry the 
tools of their craft with them at almost all times, ever ready 
for the next opportunity to ply their trade. When they do 
go to war, they seem to favour the same instruments they 
use when working, as they wield mattocks and stout axes 
of blackened iron. 
Names of the Grey Mountains
See the listing of Dwarven names on page 130.
Standard of Living
Living a life of constant travel and trade has not allowed 
for the Dwarves of the Grey Mountains to accumulate 
great hoards of wealth. As such they are considered to 
have a Frugal standard of living.
Bonus Equipment: A travelling cloak, travelling gear 
for the current season, a bedroll, a belt dagger, 2d6 silver 
pennies, plus choose any one: a haphazard set of tools, a 
hunting trap or a memento recovered from one of the lost 
Dwarf holds.
Dwarf Traits
Your Player-hero has certain traits deriving from your 
Dwarven ancestry.
Ability Score Increases – Your Constitution score 
increases by 2 and your Wisdom increases by 1.
Adventuring Age – 50 to 100. Dwarves generally start 
their life on the road in their fifties, and do not usually 
consider retiring before their nineties. Around that time, 
they feel they can no longer stay away from their family, 
or want to dedicate themselves solely to the perfection of 
their crafts.
But Dwarves can remain active until they are more than 
two hundred years old, and may return to adventuring if 
a great need arises, like the opportunity to avenge an old 
insult or injury, or to recover a treasure or reclaim a long-
lost dwarf-hold. A healthy Dwarf who avoids a violent 
death can reach two hundred fifty years of age.
Folk of Stone

--- PAGE 134 ---
Lonely Mountain Region Guide
134
Size – Dwarves generally stand between 4 to 5 feet tall 
and can weigh upwards of 160 lbs. Your size is Medium. 
Speed – Your base walking speed is 25 ft. Your speed is not 
reduced by wearing heavy armour.
Night Vision (Dwarf) – Accustomed to life underground, 
you have superior vision in dim conditions. You can see in 
dim light within 60 ft of you as if it were bright light, but 
you cannot see in the dark.
Dwarven Resilience – You have advantage on saving 
throws against poison, and you have resistance against 
poison damage.
Tools for War – You have proficiency with axes, hand-
axes, great axes, hammers, and mattocks.
Tool Proficiency – You gain proficiency with the artisan’s 
tools of your choice: mason’s tools, miner’s tools, smith’s 
tools, or woodcarver’s tools. You also gain proficiency in 
one musical instrument of your choice.
Stonecunning – Whenever you make an Intelligence 
(History) check related to the origin of stonework, you are 
considered proficient in the History skill and add double 
your Proficiency Bonus to the check, instead of your 
normal Proficiency Bonus.
Born to the Road – You have proficiency in the Survival 
skill. When beginning a journey where you serve as Guide 
for the Company, you may spend Inspiration instead of 
making an Embarkation Roll. You may choose one of the 
following results: Fine Weather, Paths Both Swift and True 
or Hidden from the Shadow.
Languages – You can speak, read, and write Dalish, 
which is the tongue of the Bardings, who speak an older 
version of the Common Tongue. You can also speak, read 
and write the secret language of your people, which has 
never been shared with any others.
Cultural Attitudes
Those Dwarves of the Grey Mountains have the same 
approach to strangers as the Dwarves of Erebor in the 
Player’s Guide.
Cultural Virtues
Dwarves of the Grey Mountains may choose Dark for 
Dark Business (described below), Broken Spells, Durin’s 
Way, Old Hatred and The Stiff Neck of Dwarves (see the 
Player’s Guide, pages 105-107).
Dark for Dark Business
‘We like the dark,’ said the dwarves. ‘Dark for dark 
business! There are many hours before dawn.’ 
You often have been forced to find sanctuary in cold and 
lightless caves, to hide from your enemies. In time, your 
senses have become keen and you are comfortable in even 
the deepest darkness. If you are making a Perception 
check while in the dark (at night, underground, or in deep 
forest), you have Advantage.
Cultural Heirlooms
Dwarves of the Iron Hills may pick the new heirloom 
described below, as well as the following ones listed on 
page 158 of Player’s Guide: Dwarf-wrought Hauberk, 
Helm of Awe. (The Worm Axe replaces the Axe of 
Azanulbizar.)
Worm Axe (Great Axe)
A Worm Axe is a double-headed weapon used by the 
Dwarves in their wars against the Dragons. Its hooked end 
can bite into the armoured skin of a Great Worm.
When a creature with a Weak Spot exposes it and you 
use your reaction to strike, you have Advantage on your 
attack roll.

--- PAGE 135 ---
- DWARVES OF THE IRON HILLS -
Móna, Daughter of Ginar
Your father fought before the Gates of 
Moria at Azanulbizar, but he never 
spoke of what happened that day – 
and this intrigued you all the more. 
You grew up to be a stout warrior, a 
guard of Dáin’s halls, but still you yearned to set 
your axe against the Orcs in battle. Five years ago 
a raven arrived at the Iron Hills and granted 
you your wish. 
You fought at the Battle of Five Armies 
in the host of Dáin Ironfoot and slew 
many Goblins that day, and saw many 
of your friends die to their curved 
swords. 
Finally, you realised why your father never 
spoke of his past battles. You now know that 
war is not something to glory in, but a 
grim necessity. You have taken on 
that burden so that others might 
be spared the horrors of war.

--- PAGE 136 ---
Strength
Dexterity
Constitution
Intelligence
Wisdom
Inspiration
Proficiency Bonus
____ Strength
____ Dexterity
____ Constitution
____ Intelligence
____ Wisdom
____ Corruption
____ Charisma
SAVING THROWS
____ Acrobatics (Dex)
____ Animal Handling (Wis)
____ Athletics (Str)
____ Deception (Cha)
____ History (Int)
____ Insight (Wis)
____ Intimidation (Cha)
____ Investigation (Int)
____ Lore (Int)
____ Medicine (Wis)
____ Nature (Int)
____ Perception (Wis)
____ Performance (Cha)
____ Persuasion (Cha)
____ Riddle (Int)
____ Shadow-lore (Int)
____ Sleight of Hand (Dex)
____ Stealth (Dex)
____ Survival (Wis)
____ Traditions (Int)
SKILLS
Passive Perception (wisdom)
OTHER PROFICIENCIES & LANGUAGES
Armour Class
Initiative
Speed
CURRENT HIT POINTS
Hit Point Maximum ____________________________
HIT DICE
Total _______________
DEATH SAVES
Successes
Failures
ATTACKS
Name
Atk Bonus
Damage/Type
EQUIPMENT
G
S
C
FEATURES, TRAITS, AND VIRTUES
CHARACTER TRAITS
CHARACTER NAME
Standard of Living
Distinctive Quality
Speciality
Hope
Despair
CLASS & 
LEVEL
CULTURE
BACK­
GROUND
SHADOW
WEAKNESS
EXPERIENCE
POINTS
Móna
Warrior 1
Dwarves of the 
Iron Hills
Doomed to Die
Lure of Power
Martial
14
+2
15
+2
17
+3
10
+0
14
+2
8
-1
+2
+4
+2
+5
+0
+2
+2
-1
+2
+2
+4
-1
+0
+2
+1
+0
+0
+2
+0
+4
-1
-1
+0
+0
+2
+2
+4
+0
14
Tools for War – You have proficiency with axes, 
hand-axes, great axes, hammers, mattocks and 
warhammers.
Proficient with miner’s tools and flute
Languages – You can speak, read, and write 
Dalish, which is the tongue of the Bardings, who 
speak an older version of the Common Tongue. You 
can also speak, read and write the secret language 
of your people, which has never been shared with 
others.
15 
(17 with Shield)
+2
25 feet
13
	 Great Axe	
+4 	
1d12+2 slashing 
	 Short Bow*	
+4	
 1d6+2 piercing  
*You can shoot your short bow up to 80 feet, or up 
to 320 feet with Disadvantage.
 
A heavy woollen travelling cloak, 
travelling gear for the current season, 
a bedroll, a backpack, boots, corslet 
of mail, greataxe, shield, short bow 
with 20 arrows
14
Hardened. Part of the reason that you have 
accepted your fate is that you have seen too much 
death and misfortune already. It’s your turn.
Enemy-lore (Orc-kind). Not only are you doomed 
to die, but you are sure by whose hands it will be. 
You won’t make it easy for them.
I wish to inspire my company by my selfless 
example.
My death is for naught, for when I die, the
Shadow will win.
Night Vision - you can see in dim light 60 ft as 
bright light, but cannot see in the dark
Dwarven Resilience – You have Advantage 
on saving throws against poison, and you have 
resistance against poison damage.
Stonecunning – Whenever you make an 
Intelligence (History) check related to the origin 
of stonework, you are considered proficient in 
the History skill and add double your Proficiency 
Bonus to the check, instead of your normal 
Proficiency Bonus.
Dark Foreboding - You can get some sense of the 
Shadow’s presence. You might be able to sense 
if an Orc warband is part of a larger force or if a 
particular ruin is blighted by the Enemy.
Great Weapon Fighting - When you roll a 1 or 2 
for damage on your great axe, you can reroll the 
damage die. You must keep the new result.
Second Wind - On your turn you can use your 
bonus action to regain 1d10+1 hit points. You must 
take a short or long rest before using this again.
  
Cultural Virtue: None. 
	 	
	
 
TM
Charisma
Shadow
TEMPORARY HIT 
POINTS
MISERABLE
Permanent
PLAYER 
NAME
13
1d10
0
0

--- PAGE 137 ---
- DWARVES OF THE GREY MOUNTAINS -
Barin Greycloak
You grew up wandering the Grey Mountain 
Narrows, ever in the shadow of your ancestral 
home. Occasionally you mustered up the 
courage to venture into the mountains 
themselves, delving in empty caves 
and holes, trading what you brought 
down from the mountains with the 
Men of Lake-town. 
Now, with Erebor rebuilt, you 
wonder if somewhere, deep in 
the mountains, the mansion of 
your kin might also be regained, 
and you seek out a company of 
heroes to aid you in your search.

--- PAGE 138 ---
Strength
Dexterity
Constitution
Intelligence
Wisdom
Inspiration
Proficiency Bonus
____ Strength
____ Dexterity
____ Constitution
____ Intelligence
____ Wisdom
____ Corruption
____ Charisma
SAVING THROWS
____ Acrobatics (Dex)
____ Animal Handling (Wis)
____ Athletics (Str)
____ Deception (Cha)
____ History (Int)
____ Insight (Wis)
____ Intimidation (Cha)
____ Investigation (Int)
____ Lore (Int)
____ Medicine (Wis)
____ Nature (Int)
____ Perception (Wis)
____ Performance (Cha)
____ Persuasion (Cha)
____ Riddle (Int)
____ Shadow-lore (Int)
____ Sleight of Hand (Dex)
____ Stealth (Dex)
____ Survival (Wis)
____ Traditions (Int)
SKILLS
Passive Perception (wisdom)
OTHER PROFICIENCIES & LANGUAGES
Armour Class
Initiative
Speed
CURRENT HIT POINTS
Hit Point Maximum ____________________________
HIT DICE
Total _______________
DEATH SAVES
Successes
Failures
ATTACKS
Name
Atk Bonus
Damage/Type
EQUIPMENT
G
S
C
FEATURES, TRAITS, AND VIRTUES
CHARACTER TRAITS
CHARACTER NAME
Standard of Living
Distinctive Quality
Speciality
Hope
Despair
CLASS & 
LEVEL
CULTURE
BACK­
GROUND
SHADOW
WEAKNESS
EXPERIENCE
POINTS
Barin
Wanderer 1
Dwarves of the 
Grey Mountains
Reluctant 
Adventurer
Wandering-
madness
Frugal
14
+2
10
+0
15
+2
8
-1
16
+3
12
+1
+2
+4
+0
+4
 -1
+3
+3
+1
+0
+5
+2
+1
-1
+5
+1
-1
-1
+5
+1
+5
+1
+1
-1
-1
+0
+2
+5
-1
15
Tools for War – You have proficiency with axes, 
hand-axes, great axes, hammers and mattocks.
Proficient with mason’s tools and harp
Languages – You can speak, read, and write 
Dalish, which is the tongue of the Bardings, who 
speak an older version of the Common Tongue. You 
can also speak, read and write the secret language 
of your people, which has never been shared with 
others.
12
(14 with Shield)
+0
25 feet
12
	 Mattock	
+4 	
 2d6 +2 piercing
	  Great Bow*	
+2	
 1d8 piercing  
*You can shoot your great bow up to 150 feet, or 
up to 600 feet with Disadvantage.
 
A travelling cloak, travelling gear for 
the current season, a bedroll, a belt 
dagger, hunting trap, hide armour, 
mattock, shield, great bow
7
Wary. You don’t trust anyone out here in the 
strange wilderness; everyone is out to get you.
Tunnelling. Few know the caves and tunnels – 
and the dangers contained therein – as well as 
you do.
I revel in the camaraderie that I’ve never had 
at home, even when it’s under such miserable 
conditions.
I shall never see my home again.
Night Vision - You can see in dim light 60 ft as 
bright light, but cannot see in the dark
Dwarven Resilience – You have Advantage 
on saving throws against poison, and you have 
resistance against poison damage.
Stonecunning – Whenever you make an 
Intelligence (History) check related to the origin 
of stonework, you are considered proficient in 
the History skill and add double your Proficiency 
Bonus to the check, instead of your normal 
Proficiency Bonus.
Born to the Road – When beginning a journey 
where you serve as Guide for the Company, you 
may spend Inspiration instead of making an 
Embarkation Roll. You may choose one of the 
following results: Fine Weather, Paths Both Swift 
and True or Hidden from the Shadow.
Pathetic and Bedraggled - Folks often take pity 
on you and offer you a meal or a safe place to stay.
Known lands - You have 6 regions that you know 
well. See page 82 of the Player’s Guide for more 
information.
Ways of the Wild - You have Advantage on 
Survival checks to track someone and can fill in for 
any missing journey roles.
  
Cultural Virtue: None. 
	 	
	
 
TM
Charisma
Shadow
TEMPORARY HIT 
POINTS
MISERABLE
Permanent
PLAYER 
NAME
12
1d10
0
0

--- PAGE 139 ---
139
Index
- INDEX -
A
Aftermath	
111
Age		
	
83
Alduna	
78
All Manner of Dwarves	
128
Anvil Way	
44
Anvil Way Smith	
45
(The) Arkenstone of Thráin	
17
(The) Armour of Náin	
112
Attacking the Silver Shadow	
101
(An) Audience with Dáin	
19
(An) Audience with Kibiluzn	
101
(An) Audience with the King	
51
B
(The) Back Door	
16
Balin the Statesman	
24
Bard as a Patron	
51
Bard the Dragon-slayer, King of Dale	
51
Barding Courtiers	
46
Barding Nobles	
46
Barin Greycloak	
137-138
(The) Battle of Azanulbizar	
111
Battling Lytegan	
103
Beinharn	
67
Bifur the Trader	
22
Bite		
	
86
Biting-storm	
96
(The) Bitter Years	
7
(The) Black Arrow of Bard	
96
Blighted Dreams	
110
(The) Blockades of the Late War	
109
Bofur the Miner	
22
Bombur the Fat	
23
Breed	 	
84
Brindal, Enterprising Thief	
53
Brokenstone	
49
Bryni, Lord of Strandburg	
57
C
Castle Orlmond	
59
Catastrophe amidst the Middle Years	 108
Challenge Rating	
88
(The) Chamber of Mazarbul 
under Erebor	
16
(A) Chill and Windswept Grave	
63
City Guard	
48
(The) City of Dale	
37
Cold-drake Burrows	
64
Cold-drakes	
84
Combat Scenery for Towns	
37
(The) Coming of the Dragon	
36
(The) Commons	
48
Concerning Dragons	
81
Courtier	
46
(The) Crossings of Celduin	
80
D
Dáin as a Patron	
20
Dáin Ironfoot, King under 
the Mountain	
18, 20
Dale	
	
35
(Describing) Dale	
38
Dale Map	
39
Dale’s City Guard	
48
(A) Dangerous Conversation	
104
Dark for Dark Business	
134
(A) Deadly Cold	
105
(The) Death of Smaug and the Rise 
of King Bard	
36
(The) Deeps	
17
(The) Desertion of Erebor	
6
Dori the Merchant	
25
Dorwinion	
77
Draconic Features	
88
	
Acid-bile	
88
	
Armour of Tenfold Shields	
88
	
Baleful Gaze	
88
	
Blazing Wrath	
88
	
Broken	
88
	
Craven	
89
	
Crushing Tail-Grip	
89
	
Deadly Tail Grip	
89
	
Draconic Resistance	
89
	
Frightful Presence	
89
	
Fell Speed	
89
	
Fire Breath	
89
	
Fleet of Wing	
89
	
Gem Waistcoat	
89
	
Gimlet Eyed	
90
	
Hatred	
90
	
Horrible Strength	
90
	
Legendary	
90
	
Mesmerise	
90
	
Multiattack	
90
	
Noxious Vapours	
90
	
Piercing Words	
90
	
Poison Blast	
90
	
Region-dweller	
90
	
Savage Assault	
91
	
Scaly Hide	
91
	
Sinister Speech	
91
	
Smiting Malice	
91
	
Snake-like Speed	
91
	
Stench	
91
	
Thing of Terror	
91
	
Tough Hide	
91
	
Wing Attack	
91
	
Weak Spot	
91
	
Winged	
91
Dragon Aging	
85
Dragon-bane	
96
Dragon Hoards	
93
(A) Dragon of Greater Power	
103
Dragon-scale Brooch	
96
Dragons of the Third Age	
99
Durin’s Bane	
6
Durin’s Ring	
112
Dwalin the Warrior	
26
Dwarf Player-heroes and the War	
106
Dwarven Craftsmanship	
29
Dwarven Grudges	
112
Dwarven Smithing	
33
(Extended Example of) 
Dwarven-smithing	
34
(Famous) Dwarven Weapons 
and Armour	
31
	
Agarial	
31
	
Angrenithil	
32
	
(The) Black Axe of Beleriand	
31
	
Drake-bane	
32
	
(The) Shield of Anar (Rhingalad)	
31
	
War-mask of Belegost	
32
Dwarves of the Grey Mountains	
132
	
Cultural Attitudes	
134
	
Cultural Heirlooms	
134
	
Cultural Virtues	
134
	
Description	
133
	
Dwarf Traits	
133
	
Names of the Grey Mountains	
133
	
Standard of Living	
133
Dwarves of the Iron Hills	
129
	
Cultural Attitudes	
131
	
Cultural Heirlooms	
131
	
Cultural Virtues	
131
	
Description	
130
	
Dwarven Names	
130
	
Dwarf Traits	
130
	
Standard of Living	
130
E
Edric’s Town	
59
Effects on Shadow	
28
Ellaras the Searcher	
66
Elstan, First Captain of Dale	
52

--- PAGE 140 ---
Lonely Mountain Region Guide
140
(New) Enchanted Qualities	
30
	
Fierce	
30
	
Fireproof	
30
	
Masterpiece	
30
	
Runes of Resilience	
31
	
Venomed	
31
Entering the Lonely Mountain	
11
Erebor		
9, 30
Erebor Map	
10
Erna	 	
63
(The) Eve of War	
106
(Negative) Expectations	
86
(Positive) Expectations	
86
Exploring the Restored Kingdoms	
114
F
(The) Fall of Mount Gundabad	
108
Fancy Baubles	
93
Features	
87
(New) Fellowship Phase Undertakings	 28
	
Commission a Smith of Anvil Way	54
	
Dwarven-Smithing	
33
	
Join the King’s Hunt	
54
	
Offer Counsel at the Royal Court	 54
	
Pay Homage to the 
	
Ravens of Ravenhill	
28
	
Stay at The Missing Scale	
55
	
Study the Stonework of Beinharn	 68
	
Take Apprenticeship with a 
	
Dwarven Smith	
55
	
Visit Thorin’s Tomb	
28
Fire-drakes	
84
(The) Fireheart Mine	
68
(The) First Founding	
35
(A) Foe Beyond Any of You	
88
(The) Folk of Durin	
5
Folk of Stone	
128
(The) Forest Dragon	
99, 100
(The) Forges 	
15
(The) Founding of Erebor	
6
(The) Front Gate	
11
G
Galford	
59
Galion		
74
Garrick of the Black Arrow	
58
(The) Gates of Dale	
40
Glóin the Emissary	
21
(The) Great Chamber of Thrór	
13
(The) Great Hall of Thráin	
15
Great Materials	
34
(The) Great Stone Cairn	
72
(The) Great Worms	
81
(The) Grey Mountains	
65
	
Inhabitants	
66
	
Notable Characters	
66
	
Notable Places	
67
	
Wildlife	
65
Grimarr’s Hall	
64
Guard Commander	
49
H
Hakon, Barding Noble	
61
Hatching a Dragon	
82
	
Step 1: Choose Age and Breed	
83
	
Step 2: Define Personality	
85
	
Step 3: Choose Actions and
	
Features	
86
	
Step 4: Lair and Hoard	
91
	
Step 5. Choose a Name and 
	
Backstory	
95
(A) History of Dale	
35
(A) History of Erebor	
6
Hit Points	
86
(The) Hoard of the Marsh-dwellers	
76
(The) Hoary Mountain	
67
How to use the Lonely Mountain
Region Guide	
4
Hunting Dragons	
96
Hunting the Forest Dragon	
99
I
(The) Ice Terrace	
18
Introduction	
4
(The) Iron Guard	
14
(The) Iron Hills	
72
Ironfoot Hauberk	
131
Ironthorpe	
72
J
Journey Event Table Entry 1	
115
Journey Event Table Entry 2	
116
Journey Event Table Entry 3	
117
Journey Event Table Entry 4	
118
Journey Event Table Entry 5	
119
Journey Event Table Entry 6	
120
Journey Event Table Entry 7	
121
Journey Event Table Entry 8	
122
Journey Event Table Entry 9	
123
Journey Event Table Entry 10	
124
Journey Event Table Entry 11	
125
Journey Event Table Entry 12	
126
K
Kajus the Easterling	
78
Khazad-dûm	
29
Khazad-dûm and Eregion	
30
Kibiluzn	
100, 101
(The) Kingdom Under the Mountain	
5
(The) King’s Council	
13
L
Lair Actions	
92
	
Disorienting Mists	
92
	
Echoes of Laughter	
92
	
Freezing Fog	
92
	
Smoke and Flame	
92
	
Unstable Ground	
92
	
Vile Odour	
92
(The) Lair of the Marsh-dwellers	
75
(The) Lands about the Mountain	
56
(The) Last Home of the Dwarves	
9
Legendary Weapons and Armour	
112
(The) Lightly Fingered	
43
(The) Long Marshes	
73
	
Inhabitants	
74
	
Notable Characters	
74
	
Notable Places	
74
	
Wildlife	
74
(The) Long Sleep of Dragons	
83
Long-worms	
84
(The) Lower Halls	
15
Lytegan	
102, 104
M
Market Square	
41
Meeting a Dragon	
97
Meeting Lytegan	
103
Merchants of Dale	
41
(The) Merchants Quarter	
41
(The) Merchants Way	
40
(The) Missing Scale	
43
Móna, Daughter of Ginar	
135-136
Motivation	
85
(The) Mountain’s Sides	
17
Munin, Keeper of Records	
20
(The) Mustering of the Host	
107
N
(The) Nether Marches	
76
	
Inhabitants	
77
	
Notable Characters	
78
	
Notable Places	
79
	
Wildlife	
76
(The) Netherwood	
80
(The) Nest	
48
Noble	 	
47
Nogrod and Belegost	
29
Nori the Toy-maker	
27

--- PAGE 141 ---
141
Index
(The) Northern Dalelands 	
56
	
Inhabitants	
56
	
Notable Characters	
57
	
Notable Places	
59
	
Wildlife	
56
Notable Characters	
18, 51
O
Of Dwarves and Men	
36
(The) Old Dwarf Road	
72
Old Quarter	
49
Óin the Healer	
21
Ori the Scribe	
26
P
(The) Passing of Years	
4
Planning and Scheming	
107
Proficiency Bonus	
86
Q
(The) Quays	
40
Queen Una the Fair	
52
(The) Quest for Erebor and the Battle of 
Five Armies	
8
R
Raenar	
104, 105
Ravenhill	
18
Ravensgate District	
44
(The) Red Axe of Dáin	
112
(The) Redwater	
79
Regional Effects	
92
	
Desolation	
92
	
Treacherous	
92
(The) Reign of Smaug	
7
Rend	 	
87
Residential Quarter	
48
(The) Restoration of Erebor	
8
(The) River Running	
13, 79
Riverstead	
79
Roäc the Raven	
20
Royal Archers of Dale	
47
Royal Barracks	
47
Royal Palace	
45
Rugash the Serpent, Orc-Chieftain	
62
Rumours of Dragons	
97
S
Sark the Bear-skinned	
71
Scatha’s Tooth	
96
(The) Second Kingdom and the
Founding of Dale	
7
Size		
	
86
(The) Smiths of Erebor	
15
Snapfire Alley	
50
(The) South Quay	
41
Speaking with the Forest Dragon	
99
Stángard 	
15
Staying in Erebor	
27
Stone Guard	
12
(The) Surviving Members of
Thorin’s Company	
21
Sworn Allegiance	
131
T
Tail-Lash	
87
Things to do while in Dale	
54
Things to do while in Erebor	
27
Thorin Stonehelm	
70
Thráin’s Towers	
17
Thrall (Other Creature)	
58
(The) Tomb of Thorin Oakenshield	
16
(The) Toy-market of Dale	
42
(The) Tracker Loore	
79
Treasure of the Dwarves	
29
Treasures to Slay a Dragon	
96
Treasures of the War of Vengeance	
112
U
(The) Upper Halls	
11
(The) Upper Marches	
69
	
Inhabitants	
70
	
Notable Characters	
70
	
Notable Places	
72
	
Wildlife	
69
Urban Journeys	
114
W
(The) War of the Dwarves and Orcs	
106
(The) War of Vengeance	
108
(The) Waste	
60
	
Inhabitants	
60
	
Notable Characters	
61
	
Notable Places	
63
	
Wildlife	
60
(Staying at the) Water House	
49
(The) Water House	
49
White Lane	
44
(The) Withered Heath	
68
Witherfinger	
61
Wondrous Artefacts	
112
(The) Wood of Hanging Trees	
74
Worm Axe	
134
Z
Zirakinbar	
68

--- PAGE 142 ---
TM
TM

--- PAGE 143 ---
The One Ring, Middle-earth, The Hobbit, The Lord of the Rings, and the characters, items, events and places therein are trademarks or registered trademarks 
of The Saul Zaentz Company d/b/a Middle-earth Enterprises and are used under license by Sophisticated Games Ltd and their respective licensees. All rights 
reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, 
photocopying, recording or otherwise, without the prior permission of the publishers. 
Welcome to Bree and The Inn of the Prancing Pony!
Nestled at the foot of the ancient landmark of the Bree-hill, Bree and The Prancing Pony provide a welcome respite from the 
trials of the road. With a wisdom all its own, Bree has endured for centuries, minding its own business and serving passing 
travellers with good food and better beer.
Surrounded by deserted and dangerous lands, and watched over by the mysterious Rangers of the North, Bree is the ideal 
place to begin a new journey or take a rest from a wearying one!
Bree-land Region Guide includes
•	
Details of the Bree-land, including Bree itself, Archet, Combe and Staddle
•	
Things to do in Bree: new undertakings and suggested adventure seeds
•	
Maps of Bree-land, Bree and The Prancing Pony
•	
A complete set of customised journey tables for the Bree-land
•	
A new playable culture, The Dwarves of the Blue Mountains
•	
Three exciting adventures that begin at level 1 and carry the heroes to 4th level or beyond: Old Bones and Skin, Strange 
Men, Strange Roads and Holed Up in Staddle

CB72310
978-0-85744-341-0
www.cubicle7.co.uk

--- PAGE 144 ---
OPEN GAME LICENSE Version 1.0a 
The following text is the property of Wizards of the Coast, Inc. and is 
Copyright 2000 Wizards of the Coast, Inc ("Wizards"). All Rights Reserved.
1. Definitions: (a)"Contributors" means the copyright and/or trademark 
owners who have contributed Open Game Content; (b)"Derivative 
Material" means copyrighted material including derivative works 
and translations (including into other computer languages), potation, 
modification, correction, addition, extension, upgrade, improvement, 
compilation, abridgment or other form in which an existing work may 
be recast, transformed or adapted; (c) "Distribute" means to reproduce, 
license, rent, lease, sell, broadcast, publicly display, transmit or otherwise 
distribute; (d)"Open Game Content" means the game mechanic and 
includes the methods, procedures, processes and routines to the extent 
such content does not embody the Product Identity and is an enhancement 
over the prior art and any additional content clearly identified as Open 
Game Content by the Contributor, and means any work covered by this 
License, including translations and derivative works under copyright law, 
but specifically excludes Product Identity. (e) "Product Identity" means 
product and product line names, logos and identifying marks including 
trade dress; artifacts; creatures characters; stories, storylines, plots, 
thematic elements, dialogue, incidents, language, artwork, symbols, 
designs, depictions, likenesses, formats, poses, concepts, themes and 
graphic, photographic and other visual or audio representations; names 
and descriptions of characters, spells, enchantments, personalities, 
teams, personas, likenesses and special abilities; places, locations, 
environments, creatures, equipment, magical or supernatural abilities or 
effects, logos, symbols, or graphic designs; and any other trademark or 
registered trademark clearly identified as Product identity by the owner 
of the Product Identity, and which specifically excludes the Open Game 
Content; (f) "Trademark" means the logos, names, mark, sign, motto, 
designs that are  used by a Contributor to identify itself or its products 
or the associated products contributed to the Open Game License by the 
Contributor (g) "Use", "Used" or "Using" means to use, Distribute, copy, 
edit, format, modify, translate and otherwise create Derivative Material 
of Open Game Content. (h) "You" or "Your" means the licensee in terms of 
this agreement. 
2. The License: This License applies to any Open Game Content that 
contains a notice indicating that the Open Game Content may only be 
Used under and in terms of this License. You must affix such a notice 
to any Open Game Content that you Use. No terms may be added to or 
subtracted from this License except as described by the License itself. No 
other terms or conditions may be applied to any Open Game Content 
distributed using this License. 
3.Offer and Acceptance: By Using the Open Game Content You indicate 
Your acceptance of the terms of this License. 
4. Grant and Consideration: In consideration for agreeing to use this 
License, the Contributors grant You a perpetual, worldwide, royalty free, 
non exclusive license with the exact terms of this License to Use, the Open 
Game Content. 
5.Representation of Authority to Contribute: If You are contributing 
original material as Open Game Content, You represent that Your 
Contributions are Your original creation and/or You have sufficient rights 
to grant the rights conveyed by this License. 
6.Notice of License Copyright: You must update the COPYRIGHT NOTICE 
portion of this License to include the exact text of the COPYRIGHT NOTICE 
of any Open Game Content You are copying, modifying or distributing, 
and You must add the title, the copyright date, and the copyright holder's 
name to the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any original Open Game Content you 
Distribute. 
7. Use of Product Identity: You agree not to Use any Product Identity, 
including as an indication as to compatibility, except as expressly licensed 
in another, independent Agreement with the owner of each element of that 
Product Identity. You agree not to indicate compatibility or co adaptability 
with any Trademark or Registered Trademark in conjunction with a work 
containing Open Game Content except as expressly licensed in another, 
independent Agreement with the owner of such Trademark or Registered 
Trademark. The use of any Product Identity in Open Game Content does 
not constitute a challenge to the ownership of that Product Identity. The 
owner of any Product Identity used in Open Game Content shall retain all 
rights, title and interest in and to that Product Identity. 
8. Identification: If you distribute Open Game Content You must clearly 
indicate which portions of the work that you are distributing are Open 
Game Content. 
9. Updating the License: Wizards or its designated Agents may publish 
updated versions of this License. You may use any authorized version 
of this License to copy, modify and distribute any Open Game Content 
originally distributed under any version of this License. 
10. Copy of this License: You MUST include a copy of this License with 
every copy of the Open Game Content You Distribute. 
11. Use of Contributor Credits: You may not market or advertise the Open 
Game Content using the name of any Contributor unless You have written 
permission from the Contributor to do so. 
12. Inability to Comply: If it is impossible for You to comply with any of the 
terms of this License with respect to some or all of the Open Game Content 
due to statute, judicial order, or governmental regulation then You may 
not Use any Open Game Material so affected. 
13. Termination: This License will terminate automatically if You fail 
to comply with all terms herein and fail to cure such breach within 30 
days of becoming aware of the breach. All sublicenses shall survive the 
termination of this License. 
14. Reformation: If any provision of this License is held to be 
unenforceable, such provision shall be reformed only to the extent 
necessary to make it enforceable. 
15. COPYRIGHT NOTICE
Open Game License v 1.0a Copyright 2000, Wizards of the Coast, LLC. 
System Reference Document 5.1 Copyright 2016, Wizards of the Coast, 
Inc.; Authors Mike Mearls, Jeremy Crawford, Chris Perkins, Rodney 
Thompson, Peter Lee, James Wyatt, Robert J. Schwalb, Bruce R. Cordell, 
Chris Sims, and Steve Townshend, based on original material by E. Gary 
Gygax and Dave Arneson. 
Adventures in Middle-earth Player’s Guide Copyright 2016 Cubicle 7 
Entertainment Ltd/Sophisticated Games Ltd; Authors: James Brown, Paul 
Butler, Walt Ciechanowksi, Steve Emmott, Gareth Ryder-Hanrahan, Jon 
Hodgson, Shane Ivey, Andrew Kenrick, TS Luikart, Dominic McDowall, 
Francesco Nepitello, James Spahn, Ken Spencer.
Adventures in Middle-earth Loremaster’s Guide Copyright 2017 
Cubicle 7 Entertainment Ltd/Sophisticated Games Ltd; Authors: Walt 
Ciechanowski, Steve Emmott, Jon Hodgson, TS Luikart, Dominic 
McDowall, Francesco Nepitello, David Rea, Jacob Rodgers, Gareth 
Ryder-Hanrahan and Ken Spencer.
Adventures in Middle-earth Lonely Mountain Region Guide 
Copyright 2019 Cubicle 7 Entertainment Ltd/Sophisticated Games Ltd; 
Authors: Gabriel Garcia, Andrew Kenrick, Mark A. Latham, T.S. Luikart, 
Francesco Nepitello, Jacob Rodgers, James M. Spahn and Kenneth 
Spencer.
END OF LICENSE