--- PAGE 1 ---
BY MATT CORLEY, DAN DILLON, JON SAWATSKY,  
DENNIS SUSTARE, AND MIKE WELHAM
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 2 ---
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 3 ---
1
Midgard and Kobold Press are trademarks of Open Design. All rights reserved. 
Product Identity: The following items are hereby identified as Product Identity, as defined in the Open Game License 
version 1.0a, Section 1(e), and are not Open Content: All trademarks, registered trademarks, proper names (characters, 
place names, new deities, etc.), dialogue, plots, story elements, locations, characters, artwork, sidebars, and trade dress. 
(Elements that have previously been designated as Open Game Content are not included in this declaration.) 
Open Game Content: The Open content in this book includes the Class Options (excluding all place names and 
specific character references such as gods and NPCs), the Feats, the Spells, the Magic Items, and the Miscellaneous 
Beasts except for the Margreve Hound, Margreve Stag, and Strossen Bat. All other material is Product Identity, 
especially place names, character names, locations, story elements, backgrounds, and fiction. No other portion of this 
work may be reproduced in any form without permission. 
ISBN: 978-0-9843159-2-5
©2019 Open Design. All rights reserved.
www.koboldpress.com
CREDITS
Design: Dan Dillon, Dennis Sustare, James 
Introcaso, Jon Sawatsky, Lou Anders, Matthew 
Corley, and Mike Welham
Editor: Meagan Maricle
Playtest Coordinator: Ben McFarland
Cover Art: Bryan Syme
Interior Artists: Julia Metzger, Dio Mahesa, 
William O’Brien, Beatrice Pelagatti, Roberto 
Pitturru, Addison Rankin, Bryan Syme, Egil 
Thompson, Michael Witmann
Art Director: Marc Radle
Publisher: Wolfgang Baur
Special thanks to the designers and editor of earlier Margreve Tales, Tim Connors, 
Eileen Connors, Michael Furlanetto, Scott Gable, Jonathan McAnulty, Ben McFarland, 
Richard Pett, Steven Robert, and Dan Voyce.
Player’s Guide
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 4 ---
2
Table of Contents
How to Rein Your Griffon....................................... 3
Races............................................................................. 8
Alseid..................................................................................8
Erina....................................................................................9
Piney.................................................................................10
Class Options........................................................... 14
Barbarian..........................................................................14
Primal Path: Path of the Hive Tender.........................14
Primal Path: Path of the Shadow Chewer..................15
Cleric.................................................................................16
Divine Domain: Hunt Domain...................................16
Druid................................................................................17
Druid Circle: Circle of Oaks........................................17
Druid Circle: Circle of Owls........................................19
Druid Circle: Circle of Roses.......................................20
Ranger...............................................................................21
Ranger Archetype: Griffon Scout................................22
Ranger Archetype: Grove Warden..............................23
Ranger Archetype: Spear of the Weald.......................24
Rogue................................................................................24
Roguish Archetype: The Underfoot............................24
Warlock............................................................................26
Warlock Patron: The Hunter in Darkness..................26
Warlock Patron: The Old Wood..................................27
Wizard..............................................................................30
Arcane Tradition: Courser Mage................................30
Background and Feats........................................... 31
Background: Forest Dweller..........................................32
Variant Forest Dweller: Feral One..............................33
Variant Feature: The Forest Provides..........................33
Feats..................................................................................33
Spells.......................................................................... 36
Spell Lists..........................................................................36
Spell Descriptions...........................................................37
Magic Items .............................................................. 50
Bracelet of the Fire Tender.............................................50
Charm of Restoration.....................................................50
Circlet of Holly................................................................50
Moon Through the Trees...............................................51
Rowan Staff......................................................................51
Sickle of Thorns...............................................................52
Ward Against Wild Appetites........................................52
Miscellaneous Beasts.................................................53
Playtesters
Castle Rock Expendables: Good King Enialb, Players: Fallon, 
Josef, Kathra, Marc, Oni
For Blaze, For Wisp: Winifred Chiang, Players: Winifred 
Chiang, Kenneth Nero, Sunny, Savanna “Atti” Brooks, 
Jason Blankenship, Garland Weis 
Midgard Adventurers Discord Group: Atanamar (Mike 
T), Players: theothergabriel(Gabriel Paduganan), 
GunbunnyFuFu(Chris Taylor), Highlord, JustinC
The Basement Dwellers: TJ McKay, Players: Jim Semkiw, 
Aoibhinn Tiyd, Zach Sromalla, Kay Short
The Black Scales: Eric Robbins, Players: Drew Robbins, 
Brett Robbins, Garret Robbins
The City Watch: Kaleb Hermes, Players: Dominic 
Moscardelli, Sean Kolhoff, Dylan Hearsch, Chris Wylie, 
Jason Litchfield
The Gatecrashers: Meric Moir, Players: Jennifer Black-Moir, 
Patrick McGean, Grace Struth, Matt Struth
Two Pokes and a Piney: Ryan Haggerty, Players: Nathan 
Phillips, Kyle Soat, Jake Shatter
[Unnamed Group]: Seth Klein, Players: Will, Tim Fewell, 
Chris Fewell, ‘Raikoo’
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 5 ---
3
“Isn’t it prying eyes?” the gearforged asked. 
“What?”
“Eyes pry. Ears eavesdrop.”
“Eyes, ears,” muttered the knight. “Whatever folk pry 
with, I’d rather not make it easy for them.”
He lead the way to a table in a corner. Out of long habit, 
Opinicus selected the chair that placed his own back to 
the wall and afforded him with a good view of the room. 
Or it would, if the minotaur and the bearfolk hadn’t 
taken the chairs across from him. He felt hidden behind a 
curtain of fur. And not too clean by the smell of it.
Oh well. The King’s Head wasn’t a spit-and-sawdust, 
but it was as close as one came in the Citadel District.  
A gathering place for the common soldiery, it wasn’t 
unusual for a member of the Order of the Griffon 
Knights to be spotted here, but it wasn’t his regular 
stomping grounds either. They could talk uninterrupted 
without drawing too much attention.
“Will you get in trouble for speaking to us, then?” 
asked the cleric.
How to Rein Your Griffon 
“You’re a motley bunch of fools, aren’t you?” said the 
dwarf.
Sir Opinicus Stonecloud stared at the group before 
him with rock hard eyes. Just one dwarf among the lot, 
and the only human was half-dead. Three beastfolk 
and a gearforged rounded out band. A motley bunch 
indeed. Such was to be expected in the Crossroads. As 
long as their coin was good.
“At least you’re punctual.” 
The group’s dwarf held out a hand.  Opinicus refrained 
from offering his own right hand and instead offered his 
ungloved left. This made for a bit of awkwardness, as the 
other’s left was clasping a golden mug with the baerra of 
Ninkash. A cleric of The Mother of Beers then. Opinicus 
liked Ninkash well enough.
“We’re here to learn about griffons,” croaked the 
ravenfolk impatiently.
 Opinicus raised a warning finger to his lips.
“Shhhh,” cautioned the knight. “Let’s find a table off to 
the side where we can talk away from prying ears.”
by Lou Anders
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 6 ---
4
“What  Sir Malkus doesn’t know won’t hurt him,” 
the knight replied. “He suspects a bit of this sort of 
thing goes on, but we don’t like to rub his proud nose 
in it.”  Opinicus paused. He didn’t want to devalue his 
information. Better the client thinks they’re getting 
top value secrets. “Of course, I might find myself sent 
to Obertal, or worse. I’ve no desire to be leant out as a 
scout for the Magdar, flying forays into dragon territory. 
Best we’re about this quickly. You’ve the coin then?”
The bearfolk set a small purse on the table. It clinked 
pleasantly. Aware that the ravenfolk was looking at the 
purse rather longingly,  Opinicus glanced inside only 
briefly before pocketing it away. 
“Very well,” he said. “I’ll just be needing a pint to whet 
my whistle and we can begin.”
The dhamphir sighed, but the cleric went to fetch him 
a drink. Actually, a round of drinks.  Opinicus liked 
clerics of Ninkash for that.
“I assume your interest in griffons is for mounts, 
yes? Not to breed them for sale in the Cartways Black 
Market?”
“That is illegal!” said the gearforged. He, if it was a he, 
sounded genuinely shocked.  Opinicus wondered how 
the gearforged got on with the raven, who appeared 
more comfortable with potentially-illicit dealings.
“Yes, quite,” agreed the knight. “Just as it’s illegal for 
anyone other than a Griffon Knight to have a griffon 
inside city limits.” 
“We plan to roost them outside the city,” said the 
bearfolk. “Perhaps at the edge of the Margreve.”
“Good man,” said  Opinicus. “Er, bear. Right, so 
first you’ll be wanting to know how to find griffons. 
Leaving out illegal markets and those who rear griffons 
in the caverns of the Undercity, you could always buy 
the Order’s surplus eggs at next year’s Midsummer 
Fair. Still, there’s six of you and most eggs hatch in 
the spring, so I don’t know if you’d be able to find so 
many. And,” he leaned forward and lowered his voice, 
“between you and me, the spring eggs are best, and you 
won’t find those being sold at the Midsummer Fair.”
 “Why not?” asked the minotaur. Opinicus paused, 
baffled by her question. The raven rolled his eyes, and 
the cleric gave the minotaur a soft smile that promised 
all would be explained in due time.  
“You’ll need to source your own eggs or acquire 
newly-hatched young. The Iron Crags are full of 
griffons, but their roosts aren’t easily accessible unless 
you can fly. And if you could do that, you wouldn’t need 
the griffons, would you?” Opinicus laughed at his joke 
until he realized no one else was. Then he coughed and 
took a drink before continuing. “Of course, you could 
seek out a legitimate griffon seller elsewhere—a trained 
mount will run you about twelve-hundred gold give or 
take—but again there’s six of you, so you’re not likely to 
find a seller with so many.”
“So it’s better to capture wild griffons?” asked the 
dhampir.
“Precisely,” replied the knight. “Leaving aside the 
roosts in the Iron Crags for the reasons I mentioned, 
my advice is that you seek out one of the abandoned 
Griffon Towers along the Great Northern Road.”
“The Griffon Towers?” said the minotaur. 
“Well, yes,” said  Opinicus. “They used to guard the 
road. When House Stross fell, the Free City moved 
her knights to the Citadel. It may be a free city but 
maintaining those outposts isn’t! Nearly a half century 
ago, the city council, in its wisdom such as it is, sold 
them off as coaching inns for quick coin. Some of 
those still operate. It’s a hard trade—they change hands 
frequently. Others are abandoned. There’s eight along 
the road itself and another four built to guard hunting 
lodges, mines, and magical wellsprings. Griffons may 
roost in any of them, but it’s the abandoned ones you’ll 
be wanting. Of course, those present their own dangers.”
“What sort of dangers?” asked the gearforged.
 Opinicus stared at his (her?) hand a moment. It 
was nice. Wrought in silver. All five fingers intact. He 
wiggled the thumb and forefinger of his own gloved 
hand, lost for a moment in retrospection.
“The dangers?” prompted the gearforged.
“Oh, well, bandits for one,” said  Opinicus, tapping on 
his gloved index finger. “Monsters for another,” he said, 
counting off his middle finger. “Oh, and nasty fey things 
for a thir—for another still.” He tapped his middle 
finger again rather than moving on to his ring finger. 
The dhampir raised an eyebrow at this but said nothing.
“Lots of fell things move into the towers from time to 
time. The staircases are mostly rotted away, so as long as 
the intruders stick to the lower levels, the griffons don’t 
mind. They might even approve as it’s a bit of a barrier 
against anyone coming for their young.  So be prepared 
to fight your way through the lower levels of the towers, 
then climb to the tops. Where you might have to fight a 
mother griffon, and that’s no easy feat. Your best course 
of action is not to see any. Action, that is. Try to time 
your theft to when she’s off hunting.”
“Could we lure her away?” asked the dhampir.
“Ha, yes, you’re a live one,” said the dwarf, then 
coughed to cover his embarrassment. “But yes, that’s 
exactly what you should do. Lure the mother away. 
A goat, a sheep. You might even stake out a horse to 
try to draw her out of the nest. Of course, speaking of 
horses, you shouldn’t ride to the tower in the first place. 
Certainly not in the spring. If you ride in, you’re sure to 
be walking out. If you walk out at all. Possibly missing 
some of your limbs.”
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 7 ---
5
 The gearforged shrugged. Perhaps loss of limbs wasn’t 
so intimidating when they could be replaced. The 
knight felt a tinge of jealousy.
“I’ve heard there are black griffons in the forest,” the 
minotaur asked. “Black and silver like the moon at night.”
“Oh, there are black ones, all right,” said  Opinicus. 
“But you’ll want to stay away from those. Wild, they are. 
Can’t be tamed. Believe me, the Griffon Knights have 
tried. We thought they might be related to the ones that 
Thelamandrine, the shadow fey ambassador, gifted the 
Order. And they probably are. But the ones in the forest 
are feral. They will eat any horse they see, strip it down 
to the bone along with anything that stands in their 
way. No, if you want a feymount Griffon, you join the 
Order of the Griffon Knights. Otherwise, you listen to  
Opinicus and stick to the regular variety.”
The minotaur nodded her head.
“How many eggs do they lay?” asked the cleric.
“Two to four per clutch, so you lot will need to rob at 
least two clutches. Takes them seventy days on average to 
hatch. As I’ve said, the bulk of the eggs are conceived in 
the winter and hatch in the spring, but some latecomers 
to mating result in a few eggs that hatch in summer.
“And when they hatch?” asked the ravenfolk. “What 
about the chicks?”
“Cubs,” corrected the gearforged.
“Chicks, cubs,” said  Opinicus. “Which are they? Never 
found a good answer to that. We call them hatchlings. 
Now you want to watch yourself there. A hatchling will 
imprint on the first creature it sees. You may not realize 
it, but you don’t want your future mount thinking 
you’re its mother. Makes for an odd relationship later 
on, let me tell you.” The knight chuckled at a private 
recollection. “You might hire a stand in. Or, in a pinch, 
we’ve used costumes and puppets. Of course, it will 
figure out the deception eventually, but you don’t want 
to go messing this up at the start.”
“Are they large, the cubs—the hatchlings?” asked the 
bearfolk.
“Not so much. At birth, about the size of housecats. 
They’ll sleep for most of the first few days. About 
every five hours or so they’ll wake up cawing and 
squalling, looking for food. And they can get quite 
loud when they’re hungry. You’ll need to feed then 
meat—horseflesh is best but goat or mutton will do in a 
pinch. Eggs too, hen’s of course. And milk.” He gave the 
minotaur a look. “Actual cow’s milk. No substitutes.”
“How fast do they upgrade, um, grow?” asked the 
gearforged. 
“It’ll be ten to twelve weeks before they can fly, if that’s 
what you’re asking.”
“And we can fly them then?” asked the bearfolk.
“No, of course not,” said  Opinicus. “Not unless you 
want to break their backs as you drop out of the sky. 
You have to wait. Our black-and-silver speckled griffons 
can be ridden starting at eighteen months of age, but 
that doesn’t do you any good. The regular variety of 
griffon shouldn’t be ridden ideally until it reaches three 
or four years, though some unscrupulous trainers begin 
riding them at two.”
 Opinicus spat to show his contempt for this practice.
“That’s a long time to wait,” said the ravenfolk. “What 
if we procured them already hatched?”
“Well, they’d still need to be less than a year old or 
you’d never break them in.”
“How can we tell?” asked Ninkash’s cleric.
 “It’s tricky,” said the knight. “You tell a griffon’s age 
by its plumage until it’s five years old. After that, you 
have to judge by its hindquarters. Between three and 
eight, it will get spotting on its legs and belly. The more 
spotting, the older the griffon.”
“I didn’t expect there would be so much to learn,” said 
the minotaur.
“This is shaping up to be quite an investment of time 
and expense,” complained the dhampir. 
“Oh yes,” said  Opinicus. “But  worth it. Properly 
cared for, and barring accidents, a griffon mount will 
last you twenty to thirty years or more. “
“So how do we actually break it in?” asked the 
ravenfolk.
“It’s not like a horse,” said the knight. “You’ll use food 
for nearly everything. Again, horseflesh is best. Or use 
mutton and reserve horse as a reward for good behavior 
and quick learning. And it takes some time to master 
thinking in three dimensions. A young griffon will try 
to throw you off or knock you out of the saddle, so don’t 
let it go too high and watch for it trying to pass under a 
tree limb or a bridge. Oh, on that. You’ll need a special 
saddle. It’ll run you about sixty gold, though you might 
be able to buy a used one off the Order. Midsummer 
Fair again. 
“That reminds me. While you’ve doubtless seen 
griffons wearing bridles, you don’t steer so much with 
them as you do with verbal commands. I don’t mess 
with bridles myself. Don’t like putting my fingers near 
the griffon’s beak, and the older ones don’t need it 
anyway. It just annoys them.
“You’ll want to stick to one and two-word commands. 
Simple stuff. Up, land, veer port, bank starboard, dive, 
that sort of thing. And, of course, attack. They don’t 
need much incentive for that if they don’t like the looks 
of someone. 
“There are a few special maneuvers. Secrets of the 
Order. Once you’ve got your mounts, I might be 
persuaded to show you one or two of the lesser ones for 
more coin. Um, considerably more coin.” 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 8 ---
6
“He was from a well-to-do family. Looked down on 
the rest of us. You might joke that’s easy to do in my 
case—”
The minotaur snickered.  Opinicus shot her a glance.
“Anyway, I couldn’t stand him. Couldn’t stand his 
posh way of talking or the sneer he seemed to reserve 
for dwarves in particular. And he was so blasted 
arrogant. Always going on about how he was a trained 
falconer—his family hunted with the birds for sport—
so griffons would come easy for him.”
“One day, after enduring the hundredth joke about my 
height, I decided I’d had enough. Sir Erlach, the knight 
we both squired under, sent us to fetch his mount. 
There was a parade. The Order was to fly low over it. 
Pomp, circumstance, that sort of thing. Well, I ran as 
fast as I could, so I could go by our quarters and still 
reach the roost before Rederick.”
“And I snatched the pillowcase off my bed. When I got 
to the roost, I put it with the gear. Then came Rederick, 
The gearforged nodded.
“Is there anything else we should know?” he (she?) 
asked.
“Well, there is one thing,” said  Opinicus. “A small but 
rather important bit of information. I don’t normally 
share it. But you lot seem a, um, generous sort.” He 
looked pointedly at his empty mug.
The dhampir groaned, but the cleric needed little 
incentive to stand for another round. 
“This is more of a cautionary tale,” Opinicus 
continued. “A lesson in what not to do, perhaps.” The 
dwarf paused, narrowing his eyes.
“Rederick von Graffenried,” he said.
“Thank you for your lesson,” said the minotaur. “We 
appreciate you sharing your wisdom.”
“I haven’t shared it yet,” said the knight, rolling 
his eyes. “Rederick isn’t the lesson. Rederick was an 
applicant—same year as me—to the Order. And I hated 
him on sight.
Sir Opinicus Stonecloud
Medium humanoid (dwarf), neutral
Armor Class 18 (chain mail, shield)
Hit Points 135 (18d8 + 54)
Speed 25 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
18 (+4)	 12 (+1)	
16 (+3)	
10 (+0)	
14 (+2)	
9 (–1)
Saving Throws Dex +5, Con +7
Skills Animal Handling +6, Perception +6, Survival +6
Damage Resistances poison
Senses darkvision 60ft., passive Perception 16
Languages Common, Dwarvish
Challenge 9 (5,000 XP)
Deadly Dive. If Sir Opinicus moves at least 20 feet 
straight toward a target while mounted on Swiftbeak 
and flying and then hits the target with a lance or 
longsword attack on the same turn, Swiftbeak can make 
a rake attack against that creature as a bonus action.
Graceful Landing (1/Day). When Sir Opinicus falls, he 
descends 60 feet per round and takes no damage from 
falling.
Griffon Knight. Sir Opinicus has trained for years on 
the backs of griffons and is adept at coordinating his 
strikes with theirs. If both Sir Opinicus and his griffon 
mount hit the same target on the same turn, the 
target takes 13 (3d8) piercing damage at the end of 
Sir Opinicus’ turn. In addition, while Sir Opinicus is 
mounted on a griffon, the griffon can’t be charmed or 
frightened.
Locked Saddle. Sir Opinicus can’t be knocked prone, 
dismounted, or moved against his will while mounted. 
If his mount’s movement or aerial maneuvers (such as 
Swiftbeak’s Barrel Roll action) would force Sir Opinicus 
to make a saving throw or ability check to avoid falling 
off his mount, he automatically succeeds.
ACTIONS
Multiattack. Sir Opinicus makes three attacks with his 
lance or his longsword. If he is riding a griffon, the 
griffon can then make one beak or claws attack. If the 
griffon is Swiftbeak, the griffon can use his Barrel Roll 
in place of his beak or claw attack, if it is available. 
Lance. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 10 ft., one 
target. Hit: 9 (1d12 + 4) piercing damage.
Longsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 
ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d8 + 4) slashing damage, or 8 
(1d10 + 4) slashing damage if used with two hands.
Heavy Crossbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to 
hit, range 100/400 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d10 + 1) 
piercing damage.
Patch Up (Recharge 6). Sir Opinicus’ mount regains 18 
(4d8) hit points. 
REACTIONS
Defend Mount. When a creature makes an attack 
against Sir Opinicus’ griffon, Sir Opinicus grants a +3 
bonus to the griffon’s AC if he is riding or within 5 feet 
of the griffon.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 9 ---
7
dumb as ever. He shoved me aside and started 
collecting the saddle and the bridle. ‘Don’t forget to 
hood the beast,’ I said.
“‘ There’s going to be a crowd. In falconry, you cover 
the bird’s head to stop it getting nervous.’ He said he 
knew falconry and that I shouldn’t ‘lecture my betters 
on things they know better than me.’ He then took my 
pillowcase and marched right into the roost.
“I almost felt guilty—almost—because I knew the 
moment that makeshift hood got near the griffon’s 
head, Rederick was going to lose some digits. But then 
nothing happened. Nothing. A moment later, that smug 
von Graffenried came out of the roost, leading the 
griffon out blind. And all his fingers intact. I couldn’t 
believe it.”
 Opinicus finished his drink. He stood, dusted himself 
off, then paused before heading to the door.
“Goes to show a griffon can always surprise you.”
“Wait,” said the minotaur. “What is the wisdom there? 
I don’t understand.” She chased after the him, and the 
group rose to follow the knight as he strode out onto 
the streets of Zobeck.
 Opinicus whistled a long, sharp note.
“You see, the griffon smelled my own scent on the 
pillow. It knew what I was up to. So it didn’t punish 
Rederick for the trick I had played.”
“And that’s why it didn’t bite off any fingers,” said the 
ravenfolk, nodding.
“Oh, I didn’t say that,” said the knight. Holding up his 
right hand, he slowly pulled the glove off. He had an 
index and middle finger, but his ring and pinky were 
gone.
“Your fingers!” said the minotaur, rather obviously.
“As soon as the hood came away,” said  Opinicus. “The 
griffon snapped them right off. So quickly I barely felt it 
at first.”
Suddenly, there was a flurry of air, and a great, brown 
and tan griffon landed in their midst.  Opinicus gripped 
the saddle and hoisted himself up.
“But why did it put up with the hood?” asked the 
bearfolk.
“It wanted to teach me a lesson,” said the knight. “And 
to punish me for using it in my petty ploy for revenge.” 
“I’m sorry,” said the cleric.
“I’m not,” said  Opinicus. “I deserved it. And 
Rederick, I guess it shocked him, because he changed 
after that. We even became close comrades. All three of 
us really.”
“The griffon?” asked the gearforged. “You mean it 
really understood everything that went on?”
“Not stupid,” said the griffon before them. It surveyed 
the group with one of its black eyes. “Griffon smart.”
“And there’s your last bit of advice,” said the dwarf. He 
gave them a nod.
Then griffon and knight rose into the air.
Swiftbeak
Large monstrosity, lawful neutral
Armor Class 16 (scale mail barding)
Hit Points 95 (10d10 + 40)
Speed 30 ft., fly 80 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
20 (+5)	
15 (+2)	
18 (+4)	
8 (–1)	
13 (+1)	
8 (–1)
Skills Perception +7
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 17
Languages Common
Challenge 5 (1,800 XP)
Keen Sight. Swiftbeak has advantage on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks that rely on sight.
Trained Mount. If Swiftbeak is subjected to an effect 
that allows him to make a Dexterity saving throw to 
take only half damage while he has a rider, the griffon 
instead takes no damage if he succeeds on the saving 
throw, and only half damage if he fails.
ACTIONS
Multiattack. Swiftbeak makes three attacks: one with 
his beak and two with his claws.
Beak. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 9 (1d8 + 5) piercing damage.
Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., 
one target. Hit: 12 (2d6 + 5) slashing damage.
Rake. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., 
one target. Hit: 12 (2d6 + 5) slashing damage and, 
if the target is Medium or smaller, it is grappled 
(escape DC 16). Until this grapple ends, the target is 
restrained and Swiftbeak can’t make claws attacks 
against other targets.
Barrel Roll (Recharge 5–6; While Flying Only). 
Swiftbeak rolls in the air and scratches nearby 
enemies. Each creature within 10 feet of Swiftbeak 
must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw, taking 
21 (6d6) slashing damage on a failed save, or half as 
much damage on a successful one. In addition, each 
creature riding Swiftbeak must succeed on a DC 15 
Dexterity saving throw or fall off him.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 10 ---
8
The Margreve 
Forest is home to 
many creatures and 
racial groups. Whether the 
creatures live in harmony with 
the ancient forest or barely scrape 
a living together, the forest changes 
its inhabitants over time. We offer three 
new races unique to the Margreve, though 
any of Midgard’s people can be found 
beneath its boughs.
Alseid
Alseid are graceful woodland cousins to centaurs, 
blending the torsos of elves with the lower bodies 
of nimble deer. Because they rarely venture far 
from their wooded glades, some call them “grove 
nymphs,” although they’re certainly more closely 
related to elves than nymphs. 
Alseid see the forest as an individual and a 
friend. They are suspicious of outsiders who do 
not share this view. Lost travelers who demonstrate 
deep respect for the forest may spot a distant 
alseid’s white tail and chase after it as it bounces 
toward a road that leads out of the forest. 
Disrespectful strangers may follow the same tail 
to their doom.
BRANCHING CROWNS
Alseid have antlers growing from their foreheads. 
Antlers grow very slowly, branching every 10 years 
for the first century of life (so an alseid with six points 
per antler should be between 60 and 70 years old). 
Further points only develop with the blessing of the 
forest. No 14-point imperial alseid are known to 
exist, but many tribes are governed by princes with 
13 points, indicating that they’ve done a great service 
to the forest on at least three occasions. Because 
antlers signify status, alseid don’t fight with them the 
way deer do. Cutting an alseid’s antlers is one of the 
direst punishments an alseid can receive. Elf rangers 
sometimes report seeing lone alseid exiles, wandering 
the Margreve, their antlers sawn off near the scalp.
Races
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 11 ---
9
ANCIENT MAGIC AND  
NATURE’S CHAMPIONS
Alseid have a deep connection with the Old World 
magic of the Margreve. Their leaders favor the druid 
and ranger classes, and sorcerers and Old Wood 
warlocks often arise from deep forest glades infused 
with energy.
ALSEID NAMES
Alseid name their offspring using a combination of 
Elvish and Sylvan syllables. Their names are often 
extremely long, and many alseid choose shorter 
nicknames for themselves when speaking with other 
species. Alseid do not have family names.
Individual Names: Roanxilana (Anxi), 
Erymleetidoral (Erym), Sarioneldorivh (Dorivh), 
Thanarifaren (Anari), Levesaelynore (Salyn), 
Nalesariabella (Abella)
ALSEID TRAITS
Your alseid character has certain characteristics in 
common with all other alseid.
Ability Score Increase. Your Dexterity score increases 
by 2, and your Wisdom score increases by 1.
Age. Alseid reach maturity by the age of 20. They can 
live well beyond 100 years, but it is unknown just 
how old they can become.
Size. Alseid stand over 6 feet tall and weigh around 300 
pounds. Your size is Medium.
Alignment. Alseid are generally chaotic neutral, though 
variations are common,particularly among those rare 
few who leave their people.
Speed. Alseid are fast for their size, with a base speed of 
40 feet.
Type. You are of the monstrosity type.
Darkvision. You can see in dim light within 60 feet of 
you as if it were bright light, and in darkness as if it 
were dim light. You can’t discern color in darkness, 
only shades of gray.
Alseid Weapon Training. You have proficiency with 
spears and shortbows.
Light Hooves. You have proficiency in the Stealth skill.
Quadruped. The mundane details of the structures 
of humanoids can present considerable obstacles 
for you. You have to squeeze when moving through 
trapdoors, manholes, and similar structures even 
when a Medium humanoid wouldn’t have to squeeze. 
In addition, ladders, stairs, and similar structures are 
difficult terrain for you.
Woodfriend. When in a forest, you leave no tracks and 
can automatically discern true north.
Languages. You can speak, read, and write Common 
and Elvish.
Erina
The enigmatic hedgehog-folk of Midgard trace their 
history back to the beginning of the world—further 
back than the rule of the elves—to the first groves and 
wild grasslands, to those green places between the 
elemental poles that birthed all that is. Or so the erina 
druids like to claim.
The erina are a small-statured race of creatures 
resembling bipedal hedgehogs. They often escape 
the notice of the powerful rulers of Midgard, though 
anyone traveling through the wilds would do well to 
have them as allies.
CURIOUS
Erina are a highly intelligent species, whose natural 
curiosity and cunning serve them well. They are always 
probing around the limits of their territory and keep 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 12 ---
10
a careful record of their environment. Erina seem 
supernaturally aware of their surroundings and have a 
keen eye for things that are out of place or novel.
SCROUNGERS
Erina subsist by scrounging. In the wild, their diet 
consists of fruit, roots, insects, and small animals that 
come within range of their spears. The few erina who 
make their homes in the civilized centers live in much 
the same way. For this reason, erina sometimes run 
afoul of the law, though they are not naturally greedy.
DEFENDERS OF HEARTH AND HOME
The erina generally worship the Hedge Mother, an erina 
goddess often associated with the elven goddess Holda 
(though the erina firmly state their worship of the Hedge 
Mother came long before the elves’ Holda existed), 
whose tenets regarding the defense of home align very 
well with the hedgehog-folk’s territorial nature.
The burrows of the erina contain a dizzying number 
of tunnels and chambers with multiple camouflaged 
entrances and exits. Invading an erina burrow is a 
nightmarish experience, as the little defenders burrow 
over, under, and beside their enemies with alarming 
speed, striking from a freshly dug hole before retreating 
to safety.
ERINA ABROAD
Erina tend to live in large communities of their own 
kind. Occasionally, compatible fey creatures may lair 
near or even within an erina burrow. On occasion, 
some erina are so overcome with curiosity that they 
leave their homes to investigate the world beyond. 
These adventurous erina make excellent rangers and 
druids, exploring the unknown wilderness with a grin 
and a twitching nose.
Other times, if there is a great threat to the region 
where the erina have dug their burrows, the defenders 
of the colony embark on a mission to face the danger 
nose-on.
On rare occasions, some erina may find their 
actions warrant expulsion from the burrow. Erina are 
suspicious of warlocks and sorcerers, and members of 
the colony who make bargains with strange entities or 
who exhibit dangerous connections to powerful magic 
are often escorted out of the burrow.
ERINA LANGUAGE
Erina speak their own language, a series of whirring 
sounds punctuated by clicks. Erina can also 
communicate with other erina using only twitches 
of the nose and whiskers, though this old non-verbal 
language has fallen out of fashion in recent generations. 
Most burrows have at least one member who speaks the 
Common tongue.
ERINA NAMES
Erina names translate very poorly into other languages. 
When outside erina lands, the hedgehog-folk tend 
to adopt names with long, open vowel sounds. These 
sounds are rare in their own language and bring pleasure 
to their ears. Erina are certain to extend the vowel 
sounds in their names when introducing themselves.
Individual Names: May-nay, Wayee, Leemay, Einore, 
Die-Nu, Lowno
ERINA TRAITS
Your erina character has traits which complement its 
curiosity, sociability, and fierce nature.
Ability Score Increase. Your Dexterity score increases 
by 2, and you can choose to increase either your 
Wisdom or Charisma score by 1.
Age. Erina reach maturity around fifteen years and 
can live up to sixty years, though some erina burrow 
elders have memories of events which suggest erina 
can live much longer. 
Alignment. Erina are good-hearted and extremely 
social creatures who have a difficult time adapting to 
the laws of other species. 
Size. Erina average about 3 feet tall and weigh about 50 
pounds. Your size is Small.
Speed. Your base walking speed is 25 feet. 
Darkvision. Accustomed to life in the dark burrows 
of your people, you have superior vision in dark and 
dim conditions. You can see in dim light within 60 
feet of you as if it were bright light, and in darkness 
as if it were dim light. You can’t discern color in 
darkness, only shades of gray.
Hardy. The erina diet of snakes and venomous insects 
has made them hardy. You have advantage on saving 
throws against poison, and you have resistance 
against poison damage.
Spines. Erina grow needle-sharp spines in small clusters 
atop their heads and along their backs. While you are 
grappling a creature or while a creature is grappling 
you, it takes 2 (1d4) piercing damage at the start of 
your turn.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 13 ---
11
Keen Senses. You have proficiency in the 
Perception skill. 
Digger. You have a burrowing speed of 
20 feet, but you can use it to only move 
through earth and sand, not mud, ice, 
or rock. 
Languages. You can speak Erina and either 
Common or Sylvan.
Piney
When did our ways become so old?
A stump, a frog, a flowr’ unfold,
I heard em’ call us worse than sin,
The forest was deep ‘for we slipped in,
The shadows were here ‘for we slipped in.
Many villages scattered through the Margreve are 
home to an elusive species of humanoids known 
as the pineys. These strange beings are followers 
of a superstitious code known to outsiders as “the 
old ways,” though the pineys themselves do not 
refer to it as such. For them, the rules of the 
Margreve are as natural as the leaves growing 
on the boughs above.
On occasion, and likely caused by 
banishment arising from actions contrary 
to the old ways, a piney leaves the limits 
of the Margreve. These cast-outs 
soon lose the extreme features of 
their kind, reverting to a more 
human form. However, the 
magic of the great forest still courses 
through their blood, manifesting in strange 
and sometimes dreadful ways.
SHADOWS OF THE MARGREVE
While the pineys were once human, their bodies have 
been changed by the magic of the great forest over 
the generations. When a piney leaves the Margreve, 
the forest’s influence fades but never fully disappears. 
Their too-long limbs and blank inchoate eyes suggest 
a fey influence, but their kind is also known for 
strange plant-like qualities to their skin, hair, and 
nails. For this reason, pineys prefer wearing scarves 
and hoods to hide their true faces.
Pineys do not recognize gender and are utterly 
unconcerned with prescriptive roles based on 
arbitrary physical characteristics. When a piney 
wishes to reproduce, the magic of the Margreve 
allows the piney to alter its form as required to ensure 
successful reproduction.  
GODLESS
Pineys do not worship the gods or their masks. Prayer 
is strictly forbidden and is seen as an expression of 
the outsiders’ moral inferiority. Pineys who are caught 
worshipping gods are swiftly banished from their 
villages. While the pineys revere the forest, they do 
so not from a desire to approach the divine, but from 
an absolute and practical surety that their continued 
existence depends on the enigmatic will of Midgard’s 
oldest forest. The ceremonies and sacrifices made in 
the name of the Margreve have a religious outward 
appearance, but in fact they are very pragmatic—
without occasional blood sacrifices, the forest punishes 
them. Pineys do not innately understand concepts such 
as spirituality and faith.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 14 ---
12
SUSPICIOUS OF MAGIC  
AND OUTSIDERS
Pineys generally view spells as either signs of the gods 
meddling in the natural world or the product of evil 
beings attempting trickery. Magic from druids and 
rangers are common exceptions to this superstition, 
though some piney villages still outlaw such magic just 
like any other magic. More commonly, piney magic 
is concerned with the construction of small fetishes 
or jewelry made from natural material. The act of 
making these charms is in fact its own kind of magic, 
and the resulting creations are often enchanted by the 
piney’s innate connection to the natural world. Pineys 
sometimes trade the less powerful charms for goods not 
commonly found in the Margreve. Examples of these 
charms can be found in the Magic Items chapter.
Pineys tend toward suspicion of outsiders, and their 
interaction with the other folk of Midgard is extremely 
limited. Late at night along the great trade road north 
of the forest, cloaked pineys sometimes appear with 
coin and crafted charms to trade for salt and iron. 
These ambassadors make their trades quickly and with 
obvious discomfort.
LIFE IN THE FOREST
Piney villages are located deep in the Margreve forest. 
Though their homes evoke human architecture, the 
villages are often melded into the trunks of trees or 
dug into the side of grassy hills. A piney village is a 
foreboding place with strange symbols etched into the 
wooden walls of the darkened homes. 
From these enclaves, pineys patrol their territory from 
dusk until sunrise ensuring the woods are safe and free 
from interlopers. Pineys feed through photosynthesis, 
which often requires them to chase patches of sunlight 
throughout the day before returning to their villages for 
a few hours of rest.
WAY OF THE WOODS
Pineys follow an unspoken series of social contracts 
which outsiders refer to as the “old ways.” These rules 
are learned by young pineys through cautionary 
tales told by village elders, and through accidental 
infractions which are quickly corrected. The “old ways” 
are generally centered around respecting the Margreve’s 
power, honoring the memories which lie in the forest’s 
loamy floor, and making the required sacrifices to 
ensure the village remains in good standing with the 
creatures and spirits beyond the village’s borders.
A PINEY ABROAD
A piney who leaves the Margreve, either by choice or 
by banishment, quickly reverts to a more human form. 
The magic of the ancient forest fades, allowing them to 
stand straighter, speak in a clearer voice, and behave in 
a manner less directed by the “old ways.”
Despite the loosening of the forest’s grip, a piney 
always retains some portion of the Margreve’s magic. 
This most often manifests in physical qualities which 
can be hard to disguise.
Pineys abroad tend to live in small, agricultural 
communities, and many find they are capable guardians 
of the small villages they inhabit. They are slow to warm 
to strangers, though fiercely loyal to friends and family.
Pineys leave the Margreve only when they have a 
strong motivation to do so.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 15 ---
13
PINEY LANGUAGE
Pineys speak their own language. It mixes many Elvish 
words with a vocal approximation of the sounds heard 
in the forest. Some pineys speak a rough form of 
Common which is taught to individuals destined to 
trade with the outside world.
PINEY NAMES
Pineys abandoned the naming conventions of outsiders 
centuries ago. There are no names which are distinctly 
male or female among the pineys, who declare their 
own names each Spring. It is not uncommon for a 
piney to have had a different name for each year it has 
lived. Piney names evoke the sounds, colors, flora, 
and fauna of the Margreve without relying on distinct 
words. A piney name is an act of play; it has a musical 
quality and is sometimes onomatopoeic for a common 
forest sound.
The names of piney villages, on the other hand, 
follow a very strict set of conventions which honors 
the oldest tree standing within five miles. If the tree 
dies, the village name is changed to include the next 
oldest – in this way, piney villages may have the 
same name for centuries then go through a period of 
frequent change. The names are often one or two elvish 
words that describe the most prominent feature of 
the tree honored by the village. Though simple, these 
words carry great weight in their villages and anyone 
dishonoring the village’s namesake is severely punished. 
Individual Names: Whihop, Caw, Sususus, Hoom, 
Whiii, Oaungoaung, Brbl, Kikoko, Auur
Village Names: Iai, Ilias, Oiroa, Thyoli, Aidren, 
Inianto, Asaca
PINEY TRAITS
Your piney character has traits which are common to 
any piney who has left the Margreve for an extended 
period of time.
Ability Score Increase. Your Constitution score 
increases by 2, and your Wisdom score increases by 1.
Age. Pineys have the same lifespans as humans, reaching 
maturity in their late teens. 
Alignment. Pineys living in their villages follow their 
own code diligently. They owe no allegiance to the 
gods, nor do they aspire to being paragons of good 
or evil. Pineys who leave the Margreve tend to have 
respect for laws, but they struggle to adopt moral 
stances. For these reasons, pineys tend towards lawful 
and neutral alignments.
Size. Like humans, pineys vary widely in height and 
build, from barely 5 feet to well over 6 feet tall. Your 
size is Medium.
Speed. Your base walking speed is 30 feet.
Margreve Within. As a piney adventuring beyond 
the Margreve, you have lost the more extreme, 
occasionally monstrous, qualities of your forest-
dwelling kin. Nonetheless, the magic of the elder 
forest marks you. You can meet your daily alimentary 
needs by consuming a suitable amount of food or by 
standing in direct sunlight for 30 minutes. In addition, 
your organs are partially made from plant matter. You 
have advantage on saving throws against poison, and 
you have resistance against poison damage. 
Margreve Without. Regardless of the time and distance 
between you and the Margreve, the forest’s influence 
on you manifests in the form of strange alterations 
to your body. Although you are humanoid, your 
connection to the Margreve marks you with 
plant‑like characteristics. Create a growth of your 
own in consultation with your GM or pick one from 
the following list:
•	Your skin is rough with harmless cracks resembling 
tree bark. 
•	Heavily-perfumed flowers grow wherever your body 
hair is dense. They can be plucked, but they grow 
back within a few days.
•	Your eyes are twice as large as a human’s, and their 
color is a changing swirl of green and brown.
•	Your finger and toe nails are wood.
•	Your major joints (shoulder, hip, knee) creak like 
tree branches when you move.
Roots. You have a deep and pragmatic connection with 
the natural world. You are proficient in the Nature and 
Survival skills.
Darkvision. A life lived under the canopy of the forest 
has provided you with the ability to see in dim light 
within 60 feet of you as if it were bright light, and in 
darkness as if it were dim light. You can’t discern color 
in darkness, only shades of gray.
Languages. You can speak, read, and write Common, 
and you can speak Piney, which has no written form.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 16 ---
14
An adventurer’s class options help it establish a unique 
place in the Margreve forest and the world of Midgard. 
Some of the options presented here are restricted to 
members of particular races native to the forests of 
Midgard.
Barbarian
Bearfolk inhabit forests both on Midgard and in the 
Shadow Realm. Some of these bearfolk tend to the vast 
hives of bees that provide the basis for their beloved 
honey mead, while others embrace light in the darkest 
parts of Midgard, using it to drive back the shadows.
PRIMAL PATH: PATH  
OF THE HIVE TENDER
The bearfolk of the Northlands are renowned for 
their use of bee hives as sources of sustenance and 
defense. Among the most powerful of these northern 
bearfolk warriors are the Hive Tenders of the Bear 
Maiden. Their deep connection with the primal magic 
of the Bear Maiden allows them to summon and 
control swarms of magical bee spirits who aid them in 
defending the tribes.
RESTRICTION: BEARFOLK
You can choose this barbarian primal path only if you 
are a bearfolk. 
HONEY OF THE BEAR MAIDEN
When you choose this path at 3rd level, you can 
forage for 1d4 servings of blessed honey each day. To 
forage, you must be in an environment where bees 
are naturally found. A creature can use its action to 
consume one serving of blessed honey. Each serving of 
blessed honey can have one of the following effects. 
Golden! Nonmagical light sources you are carrying 
do not shed dim light, instead they shed golden, 
bright light to the limit of their range until the end 
of your next long rest. 
Class Options
Hearty! You recover one additional level of exhaustion 
after you finish your next long rest, and the honey 
provides you with enough nourishment to sustain 
you for two days.
Smooth! A single bee escorts you until the end of 
your next long rest. You can use a bonus action to 
command the bee to sting one creature within 30 
feet of you for 1 piercing damage. The bee dies after 
dealing this damage.
Sweet! You exude a sweet, floral aroma until you 
finish a long rest. While exuding this aroma, you 
have advantage on Wisdom (Animal Handling) 
checks when interacting with beasts with an 
Intelligence of 3 or lower.
A creature can benefit from only one serving of 
blessed honey at a time. Once you use this feature, you 
can’t use it again until you finish a long rest.
RAGING SWARM
At 3rd level, magical bee spirits appear within 5 feet of 
you when you rage. The bees can’t be targeted by attacks, 
spells, or effects, and they vanish when your rage ends.
As a bonus action, you can command the bee spirits 
to swarm around a single creature within 60 feet of you. 
The bee spirits return to you at the start of your next 
turn. While the bee spirits are swarming the target, it 
has disadvantage on ranged weapon attack rolls, and, 
if the target casts a spell with a somatic component, it 
must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or fail 
to cast the spell, losing the action but not the spell 
slot. The DC for this saving throw equals 8 + your 
proficiency bonus + your Constitution modifier.
DEFENSIVE FORMATION
Beginning at 6th level, while raging, you have resistance 
to poison damage and can’t be poisoned. If you are 
poisoned when you enter your rage, the effect is 
suspended for the duration of the rage.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 17 ---
15
UPON BUZZING WINGS
When you reach 10th level, you can use a bonus  
action while raging to command the bee spirits to lift 
you into the air. If you do so, you gain a flying speed of 
30 feet until the end of your turn. 
BEES FOR TEETH
At 14th level, you can use a bonus action while raging 
to make a bite attack. This attack  counts as magical for 
the purpose of overcoming resistance and immunity to 
nonmagical attacks and damage. A creature damaged 
by this attack must succeed on a Constitution saving 
throw or be poisoned until the end of its next turn. The 
DC for this saving throw equals 8 + your proficiency 
bonus + your Constitution modifier.
PRIMAL PATH: PATH OF  
THE SHADOW CHEWER
Bearfolk who live in their enclaves of light in the 
shadow realm keep the darkness at bay thanks to the 
green magic of Freyr and Freya. When the shadows 
gather too close to the borders of their land, the 
bearfolk call upon the wild warriors known as the 
Shadow Chewers. Sometimes called “Angels of Freyr,” 
these fearsome heroes bring tooth, claw, and radiance 
to bear against the darkness.
RESTRICTION: BEARFOLK
You can choose this barbarian primal path only if you 
are a bearfolk.
TEETH OF THE SUN
When you adopt this path at 3rd level, your bite’s 
damage die is a d8. At 7th level, your bite attack counts 
as magical for the purpose of overcoming resistance 
RACE-RESTRICTED CLASS OPTIONS
Several of the class options presented here are 
restricted to specific races native to Midgard, but not 
every campaign includes all of these races. At the 
GM’s discretion, some of these class options might be 
available to other races. Keep in mind, however, that 
many of these class options utilize a skill or trait specific 
to their restricted races, which means some features 
might require minor or major adjustments to make 
them work for other races.
For example, if the Path of the Hive Tender was open 
to any race, the 14th level feature, Bees for Teeth, 
would need to be adjusted to grant the barbarian a 
bite attack if it doesn’t already have one, or it would 
need to be “re‑skinned” to be the barbarian’s bee spirit 
swarm attacking the barbarian’s target instead. Similarly, 
the Underfoot is very dependent upon the race having 
a burrowing speed, which means the class option could 
be open to other burrowing races. The Underfoot might 
not be suitable for races without a burrowing speed, or it 
would require major changes to allow a non‑burrowing 
race to benefit from the Underfoot’s features.
Check with your GM to find out which races and 
race‑restricted class options are available in your game.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 18 ---
16
and immunity to nonmagical attacks and damage, and 
your bite’s damage die is a d10. At 11th level, your bite’s 
damage die is a d12. 
CHEW SHADOWS
At 3rd level, you are imbued with radiant power when 
you rage. While raging, you shed bright light in a 
10‑foot radius and dim light an additional 10 feet. This 
light is immune to the effects of magical darkness and 
can’t be dispelled; however, it can’t pass through solid 
objects and otherwise behaves like normal light. In 
addition, while raging, you can choose for your bite 
attack to do radiant damage instead of piercing damage.
DIVINE SUSTENANCE
As a bonus action at 6th level, each creature of your 
choice, including yourself, in the light shed by your 
Chew Shadows feature regains hp equal to half your 
barbarian level. This feature can restore a creature to no 
more than half its hit point maximum. You can use this 
ability only once per rage.
EMBOLDENING LIGHT
Starting at 10th level, you and friendly creatures in the 
bright light shed by your Chew Shadows feature are 
immune to the frightened condition. When you reach 
18th level, this benefit extends to friendly creatures 
in both the bright and dim light shed by your Chew 
Shadows feature.
RAGE OF THE ROARING SUN
As a bonus action at 14th level, each creature of your 
choice in the light shed by your Chew Shadows feature 
takes radiant damage equal to half your barbarian level. 
You can use this ability only once per rage.
Cleric
Many terrible creatures prey on the villages, towns, 
and inns that dot the forests of Midgard. When such 
creatures become particularly aggressive or can’t be 
dissuaded by local druids, the settlements often call on 
servants of gods of the hunt to solve the problem. 
DIVINE DOMAIN: HUNT DOMAIN
The Wild Hunt and other entities devoted to hunting 
value champions who aid skillful hunters or who 
lead hunts themselves. Similarly, deities focused 
on protecting outlier settlements or who promote 
strengthening small communities also value such 
clerics. While these clerics might not have the utmost 
capability for tracking and killing prey, their gods grant 
them blessings to ensure successful hunts. These clerics 
might use their abilities to ensure their friends and 
communities have sufficient food to survive difficult 
times, or they might enjoy the sport of pursuing and 
slaying intelligent prey.
HUNTING DOMAIN SPELLS
CLERIC LEVEL
DOMAIN SPELLS
1st
bloodhound*, illuminate spoor*
3rd
instant snare*, mark prey*
5th
going in circles*, tracer*
7th
heart-seeking arrow*, hunting stand*
9th
harrying hounds*, maim*
*indicates a spell found in this book
BLESSING OF THE HUNTER
At 1st level, you gain proficiency in Survival. 
You can use your action to touch a willing 
creature other than yourself to give it 
advantage on Wisdom (Survival) checks. 
This blessing lasts for 1 hour or until you use 
this feature again.
BONUS PROFICIENCY
At 1st level, you gain proficiency with 
martial weapons.
CHANNEL DIVINITY: HEART STRIKE
Starting at 2nd level, you can use your 
Channel Divinity to inflict grievous wounds. 
When you hit a creature 
with a weapon attack, 
you can use your 
Channel Divinity to 
add +5 to the attack’s 
damage. If you score 
a critical hit with the 
attack, add +10 to the 
attack’s damage instead.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 19 ---
17
PACK HUNTER
Starting at 6th level, when an ally within 30 feet of 
you makes a weapon attack roll against a creature you 
attacked within this round, you can use your reaction to 
grant that ally advantage on the attack roll. 
DIVINE STRIKE
At 8th level, you gain the ability to infuse your weapon 
strikes with divine energy. Once on each of your turns 
when you hit a creature with a weapon attack, you can 
cause the attack to deal an extra 1d8 damage of the same 
type dealt by the weapon to the target. When you reach 
14th level, the extra damage increases to 2d8.
DEADLY STALKER
At 17th level, you can use an action to describe or name 
a creature that is familiar to you or that you can see 
within 120 feet. For 24 hours or until the target is dead, 
whichever occurs first, you have advantage on Wisdom 
(Survival) checks to track your target and Wisdom 
(Perception) checks to detect your target. In addition, you 
have advantage on weapon attack rolls against the target.
You can’t use this feature again until you finish a short 
or long rest.
Druid
Midgard’s forests are home to druids of various 
backgrounds and circles. Some of these druids are the 
forests’ quiet eyes and talons, others imbue themselves 
with the intoxicating perfumes of the forests’ blooms, 
and a rare few form inexplicable bonds with the ancient, 
sentient forests of Midgard. 
DRUID CIRCLE: CIRCLE OF OAKS
Each ancient forest of Midgard is a sentient entity, always 
aware of what transpires under its canopy. Although 
some have developed potent defenses, especially in 
their Hearts, they have tolerated alliances with those 
committed to their protection and restoration. Chief 
among these alliances are the Circle of Oaks druids.
As an accident of history, perhaps, some races seem 
more likely to be members of the Circle of Oaks in 
certain forests. For example, Circle of Oaks druids 
tend to be river elves in the Arbonesse and Tomierran 
Forests, purifier bearfolk or winterfolk halflings in 
the great northern and boreal forests, and gnomes in 
the mysterious and forbidding Wormwood. Some are 
surprised to find druids of this circle in the eastern 
plains and deserts, but indeed they tend the small groves 
and oases found there with gnolls often filling the role. 
Though they can be found anywhere, Circle of Oaks 
druids tend to stay in their forested homelands, binding 
with particular forests.
BONUS CANTRIP
When you choose the Circle of Oaks at 2nd level, you 
learn the tree heal (see page 49) druid cantrip. Members 
of your circle often touch each tree they pass as they 
stroll through a wooded area, just in case the tree may 
be in need of assistance.
FOREST BINDING
Starting at 2nd level, you can request to be bound to 
a specific forest, gaining access to certain spells. This 
binding is conditional upon the good will of the forest 
and is never given automatically. Typically, the forest 
requires a service of you before binding you to it. 
Such service might include replanting trees in an area 
destroyed by war or fire, eliminating a great pestilence 
within the forest, removing certain contaminants from 
the forest’s borders, or opposing an enemy of the forest. 
You can be bound to only one forest at a time. If you 
later bind yourself to another forest, you lose your 
connection to the previous one. Most forests will not 
permit gearforged, dwarves, kobolds, or dragonborn to 
bind with them; however, exceptions have been made if 
the candidate performed a great service for the forest.
CIRCLE OF OAKS SPELLS
Your bonded forest infuses you with some of its power, 
giving you the ability to cast certain spells. At 3rd, 5th, 
7th, 9th, 11th, 13th, 15th, and 17th level you gain access 
to spells associated with your bond to the forest. Some 
of these spells are available to you only while you are 
bonded to a forest. Such spells have the “forest-bound” 
FORESTS AND LEY LINES
The memories of the Midgard forests go back far 
into history, and they collectively remember the times 
when the mage-kings distorted the great ley lines to 
achieve power. By sacrificing huge numbers of victims 
to bend the lines for their own dark purposes, the 
results were sweeping acid rains and ley distortions 
that reduced green forests to the polluted and 
desecrated deserts now known as the Wasted West. 
The forests appreciate the power and influence of 
the ley lines, but are determined that such abuse and 
destruction will not happen again. They have learned 
ways to partially control or dampen the ley lines, and 
they share some of that knowledge with their druids.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 20 ---
18
qualifier listed next to their school of magic. If you are 
no longer bonded to a forest you lose the ability to cast 
forest-bound spells until you renew your bond with 
your forest or bond with a new forest. You can cast 
forest-bound spells outside your bound forest, unless 
the spell specifically states you must be within your 
bound forest.
OPTIONAL RULE: FOREST-ATTUNED SENSES
Druids with bestial features sometimes have senses 
that are more attuned to their bonded forests than 
those without bestial features. While in your bonded 
forest, you have advantage on Wisdom (Perception) 
checks that rely on a sense specific to your race. 
Bearfolk and erina are particularly sensitive to smells, 
ratfolk and trollkin to tastes, ravenfolk and kobolds 
to sounds, and alseid, centaurs, and minotaurs to 
vibrations in the forest floor. At your GM’s discretion, 
other races might also have particular sensitivities 
while in their bonded forests..
Once you gain access to a circle spell, you always have 
it prepared, and it doesn’t count against the number of 
spells you can prepare each day. If you gain access to a 
spell that doesn’t appear on the druid spell list, the spell 
is nonetheless a druid spell for you. Consult the Circle 
of Oaks Spells table for the list of circle spells.
CIRCLE OF OAKS SPELLS
DRUID LEVEL
CIRCLE SPELLS
3rd
forest native*, tree speak*
5th
legion of squirrels*, ley disturbance*
7th
freedom of movement, quick time*
9th
commune with nature, lesser ley 
protection*
11th
conjure forest defender*
13th
greater ley protection*
15th
control weather
17th
forest sanctuary*
*indicates a spell found in this book
TREE WALKING
Starting at 6th level, once per turn, you can use half of 
your movement to step magically into one living tree 
within your reach and emerge from a second living 
tree within 60 feet of the first tree, appearing in an 
unoccupied space within 5 feet of the second tree. Both 
trees must be Large or bigger. Any worn or carried 
possessions travel with you, but you can’t bring other 
creatures with you. At 14th level, the second tree can be 
up to 100 feet away from the first. 
TREE MERGING
Starting at 10th level, you can merge your spirit with 
that of a tree within 5 feet of you as an action. While 
merged, your body resides in the Shadow Realm, 
petrified and invisible, while your spirit is aware of 
happenings in the vicinity of the tree. If you spend 6 
hours merged with a tree in your bound forest, you 
gain the benefits of finishing a long rest. You can’t 
communicate with anyone outside of the tree unless 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 21 ---
19
a creature casts tree speak (see page 49) or speak 
with plants.  You can leave the tree as an action and 
your body reappears in an unoccupied space within 
5 feet of the tree. If you have been merged with the 
tree for more than 24 hours, you must succeed on a 
DC 5 Constitution saving throw to exit the tree. If 
you have been merged with the tree for more than 
48 hours, you have disadvantage on this saving throw. 
Each month you stay merged with the tree increases 
this DC by 1. If you fail this saving throw, you must 
wait 24 hours before you can attempt to exit the tree 
again. If you fail this saving throw each day for 1 week, 
you become permanently merged with the tree and can 
only exit it through powerful magic such as a wish spell 
or if the tree is destroyed or dies. As they approach the 
ends of their lives, many Circle of Oaks druids choose 
to permanently merge with their favorite trees to 
forever be part of their forest. 
FOREST RESTORATION
Starting at 14th level, you can engage in a ritual 
restoration of a forest that has been destroyed or seed 
a new forest in an area without one. You must spend 
at least 8 hours each day for 3 months performing the 
rites and chants of this ritual, imbuing the land within 
a half-mile radius with your power. At the end of the 
first month, you successfully remove any barriers 
to regrowth such as soil toxins or latent poisonous 
magic. At the end of the second month, your power 
reseeds the area with vegetation native to the location. 
By the end of the third month, the seeds sprout into 
saplings. As long as new toxins aren’t introduced and 
the saplings aren’t destroyed, the half-mile radius of 
saplings grow into a one-mile radius forest after 1 year.
DRUID CIRCLE: CIRCLE OF OWLS
The Court of Owls once served as a pilgrimage site for 
the ancient elves, but it secretly was also the hub of a 
network of spies. When the library of the court was 
burned to prevent its knowledge from falling into the 
wrong hands, some volumes escaped destruction. 
Druids of the Circle of Owls maintain their tradition 
of spying and gathering knowledge and, occasionally, 
of permanently silencing those who would misuse 
knowledge. The Circle of Owls druids draw on the 
power of their namesakes, moving about the world 
unnoticed as they see and hear what others try 
desperately to hide. 
These druids maintain closer relationships with the 
shadow fey than most. They find this relationship 
advantageous, though often tense, in their pursuit of 
secrets. Along with access to shadow fey agents and 
information, Circle of Owls druids regularly make 
bargains with strange owl-like creatures known as 
stryx (Tome of Beasts, p. 369). The stryx are natives of 
the Shadow Realm and find the Circle of Owls druids 
to their liking. Some stryx even serve Circle of Owls 
druids as familiars, at the GM’s discretion.
CIRCLE SPELLS
The ever present eyes and ears of the natural world 
impart magical knowledge to you. At 2nd level, you 
learn the message cantrip. At 3rd, 5th, 7th, and 9th level 
you gain access to the spells listed for that level in the 
Circle of Owls Spells table. 
Once you gain access to a circle spell, you always have 
it prepared, and it doesn’t count against the number of 
spells you can prepare each day. If you gain access to a 
spell that doesn’t appear on the druid spell list, the spell 
is nonetheless a druid spell for you. 
CIRCLE OF OWLS SPELLS
DRUID LEVEL
CIRCLE SPELLS
3rd
detect thoughts, invisibility
5th
nondetection, sending
7th
arcane eye, private sanctum
9th
modify memory, scrying
BONUS PROFICIENCY
When you choose this circle at 2nd level, you gain 
proficiency in either the Deception or Stealth skill. 
ON SILENT WINGS
At 2nd level, you learn to magically slip beneath the 
notice of even those who watch you. You can take the 
Hide action even when a creature can see you or when 
you have nothing to obscure you from the sight of a 
creature that can see you. You remain hidden in this 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 22 ---
20
Flyby. The swarm of owls doesn’t provoke opportunity 
attacks when it flies out of an enemy’s reach.
Keen Hearing and Sight. The swarm of owls has 
advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely 
on hearing or sight.
Swarm. The swarm of owls can occupy another 
creature’s space and vice versa, and the swarm can 
move through any openings large enough for a Tiny 
owl. The swarm can’t regain hp or gain temporary hp.
ACTIONS
Talons. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., 
one target in the swarm’s space. Hit: 14 (4d6) slashing 
damage, or 7 (2d6) slashing damage if the swarm has 
half its hp or fewer.
Screech (Recharge 5–6). The swarm of owls releases  
a screech in a 15-foot cone. Each creature in that area 
must make a DC 13 Constitution saving throw. On a 
failure, a creature takes 18 (4d8) thunder damage and 
is deafened until the end of its next turn. On a success, 
a creature takes half the damage and isn’t deafened.
Swarm of Owls
Medium swarm of Tiny beasts, unaligned
Armor Class 13 
Hit Points 60 (11d8 + 11)
Speed 5 ft., fly 60 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
8 (–1)	
16 (+3)	
12 (+1)	
3 (–4)	
12 (+1)	
7 (–2)
Skills Perception +5, Stealth +5
Damage Resistances bludgeoning, piercing, slashing
Condition Immunities charmed, frightened, grappled, 
paralyzed, petrified, prone, restrained, stunned
Senses darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 15
Languages —
Challenge 3 (700 XP)
way until the end of your next turn. 
If at that time you haven’t found 
something to obscure you, you are 
no longer hidden.
You can use this feature a 
number of times equal to your 
Wisdom modifier (a minimum 
of once). You regain all expended 
uses when you finish a long rest.
OWL’S EYES
At 6th level, you can cast 
clairvoyance once. When you cast 
the spell in this way, you don’t 
require components, and the casting 
time is 1 action. You can choose for 
the invisible sensor to instead be visible 
as an owl.
Once you use this feature you can’t use 
it again until you finish a long rest. 
SHADOW FLIGHT
At 10th level, you can slip partially into shadow for a 
short time. As an action, you can cast the etherealness 
spell. When you cast the spell in this way, its duration is 
concentration, up to 1 minute. 
Once you use this feature, you can’t use it again until 
you finish a short or long rest.
PARLIAMENT OF OWLS
When you reach 14th level, you can disperse your form 
into a great swirling storm of owls. As an action, you 
can use your Wild Shape to become a swarm of owls 
(see sidebar). 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 23 ---
21
DRUID CIRCLE: CIRCLE OF ROSES
The Court of Roses was once a place of song, poetry, 
and revelry about which the remaining few elves who 
still remember it tell whispered stories with a faraway 
look in their eyes. Though the court itself is long 
destroyed and haunted by ghosts and plant creatures, 
some of the Roses’ teachings survive. 
Druids of the Circle of Roses bend the power of 
nature to influence the minds and hearts of those 
around them, soothing sorrow, crushing with terror, 
and ensnaring hearts in equal measure. They create 
sweet and bitter perfumes that carry their power to any 
who inhale the scent.
CIRCLE SPELLS
Your deep bond with the ebb and flow of nature grants 
you knowledge of certain spells. At 2nd level, you learn 
the friends cantrip. At 3rd, 5th, 7th, and 9th level you 
gain access to the spells listed for that level in the Circle 
of Roses Spells table. 
Once you gain access to a circle spell, you always have 
it prepared, and it doesn’t count against the 
number of spells you can prepare each day. If 
you gain access to a spell that doesn’t appear 
on the druid spell list, the spell is nonetheless 
a druid spell for you. 
CIRCLE OF ROSES SPELLS
DRUID LEVEL
CIRCLE SPELLS
3rd
calm emotions, suggestion
5th
hypnotic pattern, tongues
7th
confusion, phantasmal killer
9th
dominate person, geas
BONUS PROFICIENCY
When you choose this circle at 2nd level, you gain 
proficiency in one skill chosen from the following: 
Deception, Intimidation, or Persuasion. 
BITTERSWEET PERFUME
Starting at 2nd level, you can expend one use of Wild 
Shape as an action to create a floral perfume that 
manipulates the minds of those who breathe it, rather 
than transforming into a beast form.  One creature 
of your choice within 10 feet of you must make a 
Charisma saving throw against your spell save DC. On 
each of your turns while the perfume lasts, you can use 
an action to choose a different creature to affect with 
your perfume. 
On a failure, the creature is charmed or frightened 
by you (your choice) for as long as it remains in your 
perfume and for 1 minute after it leaves the area. 
If it ends its turn outside the area, the creature can 
repeat the saving throw, ending the effect on itself 
on a success. If you or your allies attack or harm the 
charmed creature, it is no longer charmed.
If the creature’s saving throw is successful or if the 
effect ends for it, it is immune to your perfume for the 
next 24 hours. A creature that doesn’t breathe or that is 
immune to poison is immune to your perfume.
The perfume lasts for 10 minutes or until you use 
your Wild Shape again.
OVERPOWERING REMEDY
At 6th level, your perfume can affect one creature of 
your choice within 20 feet of you, and you can use 
the scent of your perfume to unravel harmful effects. 
When you use your Bittersweet Perfume, you can 
choose to end one disease or one condition affecting 
a creature in your perfume instead of charming or 
frightening it. The condition removed can be charmed, 
frightened, or poisoned. 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 24 ---
22
ROSE’S THORNS
At 10th level, you can stab thorns at the minds of those 
who dare raise their hand against you. When a creature 
within 20 feet of you hits you with an attack, you 
can use your reaction to force the creature to make a 
Wisdom saving throw against your spell save DC. On a 
failed save, the creature takes 1d10 psychic damage.
LINGERING PERFUME 
When you reach 14th level, a whiff of your perfume 
surrounds you at all times and lingers in your wake. 
You are immune to harmful gasses and vapors, you 
have advantage on saving throws against be charmed or 
frightened, and your Bittersweet Perfume now lasts for 
1 hour or until you use your Wild Shape again.
In addition, you can intensify the power of your 
perfume. When a creature becomes charmed or 
frightened by your Bittersweet Perfume, you can use a 
bonus action to wrap some of your perfume around it. 
That creature is considered to be within your perfume, 
no matter how far it moves away from you, for 1 hour or 
until you use your Wild Shape again. Once you use this 
feature, you can’t use it again until you finish a long rest.
Ranger
The rangers of Midgard are as varied as its 
forests. The Griffon Scouts of the Margreve 
operate as one with their magical mounts, 
keeping a silent watch over the forest. Grove 
Wardens are blessed by the forests they inhabit 
and use this blessing to make the forest around 
them hinder or attack their foes. Spears of the 
Weald are alseid who can tap into the power 
of the forest to dance around their enemies 
with dazzling speed, attacking with magical 
spears gifted to them by the forest. 
RANGER ARCHETYPE:  
GRIFFON SCOUT
The elves of the Griffon Court are practical 
and disciplined, well suited to surviving in their 
isolated holding on a windswept crag jutting 
out of the Margreve. Trained by elven court 
veterans, rangers of the Griffon Scout 
archetype learn to move swiftly and 
stealthily both on foot and while mounted, 
gathering information on their enemies 
or delivering devastating hit-and-run 
raids with precision and coordination. 
GRIFFON SCOUT MAGIC
Starting at 3rd level, you learn an additional spell when 
you reach certain levels in this class, as shown in the 
Griffon Scout Spells table. The spell counts as a ranger 
spell for you, but it doesn’t count against the number of 
ranger spells you know. 
GRIFFON SCOUT SPELLS
RANGER LEVEL
SPELLS
3rd
featherfall
5th
find steed
9th
haste
13th
greater invisibility
17th
telepathic bond
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 25 ---
23
MOUNTED SCOUT
At 3rd level, you have advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) 
checks while mounted, and your Dexterity (Stealth) 
checks apply to both you and your mount.  
SKIRMISHER’S STEP
At 3rd level, when you move at least 20 feet straight 
toward a creature and hit it with a melee weapon attack 
in the same turn, that attack deals an extra 1d8 damage 
of the same type dealt by the weapon to the target, and, 
when you or your mount move out of the target’s reach 
before the end of your next turn, you don’t provoke an 
opportunity attack from the target. 
COORDINATED STRIKES
Starting at 7th level, you can deliver punishing flurries 
of attacks in perfect coordination with your allies. 
When one of your allies hits a target within 30 feet of 
you with an attack, you can use your reaction to make 
one weapon attack against that target. 
GRIFFON WINGS
At 11th level, when you cast find steed, you can choose 
for your steed to take the form of a griffon, though it is 
a fey instead of a monstrosity. 
STRIKE AND FADE
Starting at 15th level, when you or your mount move at 
least 20 feet during your turn, you become an evasive 
blur. Until the start of your next turn, a creature that 
attacks you has disadvantage on the first attack roll it 
makes against you or your mount. 
RANGER ARCHETYPE: GROVE WARDEN
Fiercely protective of their territory, the alseid herds 
form a close bond with the Margreve. In return for 
their diligent protection, the forest offered its blessing 
to dedicated alseid rangers. In recent years, woodsy 
adventurers of other races who have earned the alseids’ 
trust also received this blessing, though their numbers 
are scant. These Grove Wardens can tap into the living 
magic of the Margreve and call upon its aid. Their senses 
travel through the plants and earth of the woods, and the 
very land rises up to strike down the ranger’s enemies. 
GROVE WARDEN MAGIC
Starting at 3rd level, you learn an additional spell when 
you reach certain levels in this class, as shown in the 
Grove Warden Spells table. The spell counts as a ranger 
spell for you, but it doesn’t count against the number of 
ranger spells you know. 
GROVE WARDEN SPELLS
RANGER LEVEL
SPELLS
3rd
entangle
5th
branding smite
9th
speak with plants
13th
hallucinatory terrain
17th
animate objects
WHISPERS OF THE FOREST
At 3rd level, when you use your Primeval Awareness 
feature while within a forest, you add humanoids to 
the list of creature types you can sense. When sensing 
humanoids, you know the general direction of the 
creatures, and you know if a humanoid is solitary, in a 
small group of up to 5 humanoids, or a pack of more 
than 5 humanoids. 
MARGREVE’S WILL
At 3rd level, you can magically draw on the living 
essence of the land to hamper your foes. As a bonus 
action, choose one creature you can see within 60 feet 
of you. Your next weapon attack against that creature 
has advantage. If that attack hits, the creature’s speed 
is reduced by 10 feet until the start of your next turn. 
When you reach 11th level in this class, if that attack 
hits, the creature’s speed is instead halved until the start 
of your next turn.
INTRUDER’S BANE
At 7th level, you can command the land around you to 
come to your aid. As a bonus action, choose a point you 
can see on the ground within 60 feet. You cause the area 
within 15 feet of that point to undulate and warp. Each 
creature in the area must make a Dexterity saving throw 
against your spell save DC. On a failure, a creature is 
pushed up to 15 feet in a direction of your choice and 
knocked prone. 
Once you use this feature, you can’t use it again until 
you finish a short or long rest.
WRATH OF THE FOREST
At 11th level, you can call on the land in your vicinity to 
strike at your enemies. When you take the Attack action, 
you can use a bonus action to make a rock, branch, 
root, or other small object attack a creature within 30 
feet of you. You are proficient with the attack, it counts 
as magical for the purpose of overcoming resistance 
and immunity to nonmagical attacks and damage, 
and you add your Dexterity modifier to the attack and 
damage rolls. The damage is of a type appropriate to the 
surroundings and the damage die is a d8. 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 26 ---
24
LIVING BULWARK
Starting at 15th level, the land around you comes 
to your aid when you are danger, interposing rocks, 
branches, vines, roots, or even the ground itself between 
you and your foes. When a creature you can see targets 
you with an attack, you can use your reaction to roll a 
d8 and add it to your AC against the attack.
RANGER ARCHETYPE:  
SPEAR OF THE WEALD
The alseid who inhabit the ancient Margreve forest 
have long defended the limits of their home. These 
forest warriors can make a dizzying variety of ranged 
and melee attacks in quick succession, using ancient 
magic to flash across the battlefield.
RESTRICTION: ALSEID
You can choose this archetype only if you are an alseid.
WEALD SPEAR
When you choose this archetype at 3rd level, you gain 
the ability to call forth a magical, wooden spear from 
the Bright Land into your empty hand as a bonus 
action. The spear disappears if it is more than 5 feet 
away from you for 1 minute or more. It also disappears 
if you use this feature again, if you dismiss the weapon 
(no action required), or if you die. You are proficient 
with the weapon while you wield it. The spear’s range is 
20/60 feet, and, when you throw the spear, it reappears 
in your hand after the attack. The spear’s damage die is 
a d8, and it has the finesse and reach properties. 
At 7th level, your weald spear attack counts as magical 
for the purpose of overcoming resistance and immunity 
to nonmagical attacks and damage, and your Weald 
Spear’s damage die is a d10. At 11th level, your Weald 
Spear’s damage die is a d12.
TOUCH OF THE BRIGHT LAND
The touch of the Bright Land is always on your spear, 
hinting at its otherworldly ties. Beginning at 3rd level, 
when you summon your Weald Spear, choose one of 
the following effects:
Entwined. Your spear appears to be wrapped in 
writhing green vines which occasionally coalesce 
into the shape of a slender, grasping hand. The hand 
points in the direction of the Margreve.
Aflame. Your spear is ensorcelled in heatless, white, 
magical flames whose intensity rises and falls to 
reflect your mood. When you are at your happiest, it 
sheds bright light in a 5-foot radius and dim light for 
an additional 5 feet.
Everblooming. Your spear is covered in small 
wildflowers that bloom, die, bud, and bloom again 
within minutes. Pollinating insects are often drawn to 
your spear as the spear constantly exudes a pleasant, 
floral fragrance.
Moonlit. Your spear appears as a pale, white length of 
wooden moonlight. A trail of star-like motes travels 
behind the spear’s point. 
CANOPY
Beginning at 7th level, when a creature within 30 feet 
of you, including yourself, is targeted by a ranged 
weapon attack, you can use your reaction to summon a 
magical canopy of glowing leaves and branches over the 
target.  The target has resistance to the damage dealt by 
the attack, and the canopy bursts into shredded leaves 
afterwards. You must then finish a short or long rest to 
use your Canopy again.
At 11th level, you can use your Canopy twice between 
rests. At 18th level, you can use it three times between 
rests. When you finish a short or long rest, you regain 
your expended uses.
STEPS OF THE FOREST GOD
When you reach 11th level, you gain a minor use of the 
Elfroads. After you make a successful ranged weapon 
attack with your Weald Spear, you can use a bonus 
action to teleport to an unoccupied space within 10 feet 
of your target.  
OVERWHELM
At 15th level, after you make a successful melee weapon 
attack with your Weald Spear against a creature, you 
can use a bonus action to make one ranged weapon 
attack with it against a different creature. You don’t 
have disadvantage on the ranged attack roll from being 
within 5 feet of the first creature, however, you can still 
have disadvantage on the attack roll from being within 
5 feet of other creatures. 
Rogue
Though most rogues prefer ambushing their opponents 
from the shadows, erina rogues ambush their 
opponents from below. These Underfoot use druidic 
magic and their natural aptitude for burrowing to 
defend their forest homes. 
ROGUISH ARCHETYPE:  
THE UNDERFOOT
An elite order of burrow warriors exists in every erina 
colony. These highly-trained warriors are known as the 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 27 ---
25
Underfoot. Using a combination of guerilla attacks and 
druidic magic, the Underfoot are a force to be reckoned 
with, diving into fights nose-forward.
RESTRICTION: ERINA
You can choose this roguish archetype only if you are 
an erina.
SPELLCASTING
When you reach 3rd level, you gain the ability to cast 
spells drawn from the magic of the wilds.
CANTRIPS
You learn three cantrips: shillelagh and two other 
cantrips of your choice from the druid spell list. You 
learn another druid cantrip of your choice at 10th level.
SPELL SLOTS
The Underfoot Spellcasting table shows how many spell 
slots you have to cast your spells of 1st level and higher. 
To cast one of these spells, you must expend one of 
these slots at the spell’s level or higher. You regain all 
expended spell slots when you finish a long rest.
For example, if you know the 1st-level spell longstrider 
and have a 1st-level and a 2nd-level spell slot available, 
you can cast longstrider using either slot. 
SPELLS KNOWN OF 1ST-LEVEL AND HIGHER 
You know three 1st level druid spells of your choice, 
two of which you must choose from the divination and 
transmutation spells on the druid spell list. The Spells 
Known column of the Underfoot Spellcasting table 
shows when you learn more druid spells of 1st level 
or higher. Each of these spells must be a divination or 
transmutation spell of your choice, and must be of a level 
for which you have spell slots. The spells you learn at 8th, 
14th, and 20th level can be from any school of magic. 
When you gain a level in this class, you can choose 
one of the druid spells you know and replace it with 
another spell from the druid spell list. The new spell 
must be of a level for which you have spell slots, and 
it must be a divination or transmutation spell, unless 
you’re replacing the spell you gained at 3rd, 8th, 14th, 
or 20th level.
SPELLCASTING ABILITY
Wisdom is your spellcasting ability for your druid 
spells. Your magic draws upon your connection with 
the natural world. You use your Wisdom whenever a 
spell refers to your spellcasting ability. In addition, you 
UNDERFOOT SPELLCASTING
ROGUE 
LEVEL
CANTRIPS 
KNOWN
SPELLS 
KNOWN
SPELL SLOTS PER SPELL LEVEL
1ST
2ND
3RD
4TH
3
3
3
2
—
—
—
4
3
4
3
—
—
—
5
3
4
3
—
—
—
6
3
4
3
—
—
—
7
3
5
4
2
—
—
8
3
6
4
2
—
—
9
3
6
4
2
—
—
10
4
7
4
3
—
—
11
4
8
4
3
—
—
12
4
8
4
3
—
—
13
4
9
4
3
2
—
14
4
10
4
3
2
—
15
4
10
4
3
2
—
16
4
11
4
3
3
—
17
4
11
4
3
3
—
18
4
11
4
3
3
—
19
4
12
4
3
3
1
20
4
13
4
3
3
1
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 28 ---
26
use your Wisdom modifier when setting the saving 
throw DC for a druid spell you cast and when making 
an attack roll with one.
Spell save DC = 8 + your proficiency bonus + your 
Wisdom modifier
Spell attack modifier = your proficiency bonus + your 
Wisdom modifier
VERSATILE SHILLELAGH
Beginning at 3rd level, when you cast shillelagh, the 
spell is modified in the following ways:
•	 Its duration increases to 1 hour.
•	 The spell only ends early if another creature holds 
the weapon or if the weapon is more than 5 feet 
away from you for 1 minute or more.
•	 Your Sneak Attack feature can be applied to attack 
rolls made with your shillelagh weapon. 
UNDERMINE
Beginning at 9th level, you can use your action to dig 
a hole under a Large or smaller creature within 5 feet 
of you. That creature must succeed on a Dexterity 
saving throw (DC = 8 + your proficiency bonus + your 
Dexterity modifier) or fall prone. If the target fails its 
saving throw, you can make one weapon attack against 
that target as a bonus action.
DEATH FROM BELOW
Beginning at 13th level, when you move at least 10 feet 
underground toward a target, your next attack against 
the target with your shillelagh weapon has advantage. 
VICIOUS
At 17th level, when you use your Death From Below 
feature and hit the target with your shillelagh weapon, 
the target is restrained by vegetation and soil until the 
end of its next turn. 
Warlock
Warlocks seeking power in the forests of Midgard 
might draw the attention of the Hunter in Darkness 
or the Old Wood. The Hunter in the Darkness patron 
relishes in the hunt and seeks skilled hunters who 
take pleasure in terrifying their prey. The Old Wood 
patron, on the other hand, is as ancient as the world 
itself, and it seeks individuals who devote themselves to 
protecting the forests of Midgard from the dangerous 
magics that claimed many forests of the past. 
WARLOCK PATRON:  
THE HUNTER IN DARKNESS
The Hunter in Darkness was one of the first shadow 
fey, but, after time, it succumbed to the power of the 
Shadow Realm and became something more. It is an 
entity that sees all creatures as prey and enjoys instilling 
fear in its prey. It prefers intelligent prey over mere 
beasts as their fear tastes so much sweeter. Hunters, 
particularly those among the shadow fey, who display 
impressive prowess for hunting peak its interest. The 
Hunter in Darkness often bestows its power on such 
individuals to spread fear further than the Hunter can 
by itself. Because of the similarities in their goals, many 
people speculate that the Hunter in Darkness is a mask 
of the Fey Lord of the Hunt or the Blood God.
Though your patron isn’t mindless, it cares only for 
the thrill of the hunt and the spreading of fear. It cares 
not what you do with the power it grants you beyond 
that. Your connection with the Hunter can sometimes 
cause changes in your worldview. You might view every 
creature you meet as either predator or prey, or you 
might face problems with a “kill or be killed” attitude.
EXPANDED SPELL LIST
The Hunter in Darkness lets you choose from an 
expanded list of spells when you learn a warlock spell. 
The following spells are added to the warlock spell list 
for you.
HUNTER IN DARKNESS EXPANDED SPELLS
SPELL LEVEL
SPELLS
1st
bloodhound*, hunter’s endurance*
2nd
instant snare*, mark prey*
3rd
clairvoyance, nondetection
4th
 harry*, heart-seeking arrow*
5th
killing fields*, legend lore
*indicates a spell found in this book
SAVAGE HUNTER
Starting at 1st level, when you reduce a hostile creature 
to 0 hp, its nearest ally within 30 feet of you must 
succeed on a Wisdom saving throw against your 
warlock spell save DC or be frightened of you until the 
end of its next turn. 
STEP INTO SHADOW
Beginning at 6th level, you can disappear into darkness 
and reappear next to an enemy. As a bonus action while 
in dim light or darkness, you can disappear in a puff of 
inky smoke and reappear in an unoccupied space that is 
also in dim light or darkness within 5 feet of a creature 
within 30 feet of you. If the creature is frightened and 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 29 ---
27
you make a melee weapon attack 
roll against it, you have 
advantage on the attack roll.
Once you use this feature, you 
can’t use it again until you finish a 
short or long rest.
STRIKE FROM THE DARK
Beginning at 10th level, your patron’s 
constant hunger for fear inures you to 
it. You are immune to being frightened. 
In addition, when you are in dim light 
or darkness and you hit a creature with 
a weapon attack, it must succeed on a 
Wisdom saving throw against your warlock 
spell save DC or be frightened of you for 1 
minute or until it takes any damage. 
AVATAR OF DEATH
Starting at 14th level, if you reduce 
a target to 0 hp with a weapon 
attack, you can use a bonus action 
to force each ally of the target 
within 30 feet of you to make a 
Wisdom saving throw against 
your warlock spell save DC. On 
a failure, the creature is frightened 
of you for 1 minute or until it 
takes any damage. If a creature is 
immune to being frightened, it is 
instead stunned until the end of its 
next turn.
Once you use this feature, you 
can’t use it again until you finish a 
short or long rest.
THE HUNTER IN DARKNESS AND YOUR PACT BOONS
When you select your pact boon at 3rd level, it is 
altered by your patron in the following ways.
Pact of the Chain: Your familiar is a hunting hound 
made of shadow, and it uses the statistics of a wolf. 
Pact of the Blade:  Your pact weapon can be a longbow 
or shortbow in addition to a melee weapon. You must 
provide arrows for the weapon.
Pact of the Tome: Your tome contains descriptions of 
tracks made by a multitude of creatures. If you consult 
your tome for 1 minute while inspecting tracks, you 
can identify the type of creature that left the tracks 
(such as a winter wolf), though not the creature’s name 
or specific appearance (such as Frosttooth, the one-
eyed leader of a notorious pack that terrorizes the area).
WARLOCK PATRON: THE OLD WOOD
You have made a pact with the ancient intelligence of a 
primeval forest. Before the rise of human civilization, 
before the time of the elves, before even the dragons, 
there were the forests. Empires rise and fall around 
them but the forests remain as a testament to nature’s 
endurance. However, times are changing, and the 
unchecked growth of civilization threatens the green. 
The intelligence that imbues the antediluvian forest seeks 
emissaries in the world that can act beyond its boughs, 
and it has heard your call for power. You are a guardian 
of the Old Wood, a questing branch issuing from a vast, 
slumbering intelligence sent to act on its behalf, perhaps 
even to excise these lesser beings from its borders. 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 30 ---
28
OLD WOOD EXPANDED SPELLS
Your connection to the forest allows you to choose 
from an expanded list of spells when you learn a 
warlock spell. The following spells are added to the 
warlock spell list for you.
OLD WOOD EXPANDED SPELLS
SPELL LEVEL
SPELLS
1st
animal friendship, poreveit’s mantle*
2nd
snap the leash*, spike growth
3rd
conjure animals, protection from energy
4th
conjure woodland beings, giant insect
5th
tree stride, yarila’s bounty*
*see Tales of the Old Margreve
SAP MAGIC
At 1st level, your patron bestows upon you the ability 
to absorb magic from nearby spellcasting. When a 
creature casts a spell of a level you can cast or lower 
within 30 feet of you, you can use your reaction 
to synthesize the magic. The spell resolves as 
normal, but you have a 25% chance of regaining 
hit points equal to your warlock level + your 
Charisma modifier (minimum of 1 hit point).
FOREST’S DEFENDER
At 1st level, your patron gifts you with the skills 
necessary to defend it. You gain proficiency 
with shields, and you learn the shillelagh cantrip. 
Shillelagh counts as a warlock cantrip for you, but it 
doesn’t count against your number of cantrips known.
PREDATORY GRACE
Starting at 6th level, you are able to cast pass without 
trace without expending a spell slot. Once you use this 
feature, you can’t use it again until you finish a short or 
long rest. In addition, difficult terrain caused by roots, 
underbrush, and other natural forest terrain costs you 
no extra movement. You can pass through nonmagical 
plants without being slowed by them and without 
taking damage from them if they have thorns, spines, or 
a similar hazard.
NATURE’S ENDURANCE
At 10th level, your patron has suffused your body with 
a portion of its ability to withstand harmful magic. You 
gain resistance to damage from spells of a level you can 
cast or lower.
AVATAR OF THE WOOD
Starting at 14th level, you can channel the power of the 
forest to physically transform, taking on many of its 
aspects. Your legs, arms, and torso elongate, your body 
THE OLD WOOD PATRON IN MIDGARD
Designers’ Note: Warlocks of the Old Wood 
are the claws and teeth of the forest they serve. 
Their rarity has made them something of a myth, 
especially outside their woods, but these emissaries 
of the forest range as far and wide as their patron 
wills them.
The Margreve is the most well-known forest in 
Midgard but certainly not the only one to offer 
pacts. The Arbonesse, Gennecka, Ghostlight, 
Tomierran, and Wormwood are some of the 
other forests that can be patrons. Due to the 
symbiotic relationship with their patrons, a warlock 
of the Old Wood is exempt from forest-wide 
adverse effects such as the Margreve’s omnipresent 
ability to siphon magic.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 31 ---
29
becomes covered in thick, dark bark, and branches 
sprout from your head as your hair recedes. You can 
transform as a bonus action and the transformation 
lasts 1 minute. While transformed, you gain the 
following benefits:
•	 Your Armor Class is 16 plus your Dexterity modifier.
•	 You gain tremorsense with a radius of 30 feet, and 
your attacks can reach 5 feet further.
•	 Your hands become claws, and you can use the Attack 
action to attack with the claws. You are proficient 
with the claws, and the claws count as magical for 
the purpose of overcoming resistance and immunity 
to nonmagical attacks and damage. You add your 
Charisma modifier to your attack and damage 
rolls with the claws. The damage is slashing and 
the damage die is a d6. If you have the Pact of the 
Blade feature, your claw attack benefits from your 
invocations as if it was a pact weapon. 
•	 Your Sap Magic feature changes to Arcasynthesis: 
When a spell of 5th level or lower is cast within 60 
feet of you, you can use your reaction to synthesize 
the magic. The spell resolves as normal, but you 
have a 50% chance of regaining 1d10 hp per level of 
the spell cast. 
	   Once you use this feature, you can’t use it again 
until you finish a short or long rest.
THE OLD WOOD AND YOUR PACT BOONS
When you select your pact boon at 3rd level, it is 
altered by your patron in the following ways:
Pact of the Chain. When you conjure your familiar 
or change its form, you can choose the form of an 
awakened shrub or child of the briar (Tome of Beasts, p. 
56) in addition to the usual familiar choices.
Pact of the Blade. The blade of the Old Wood is a 
weapon made of wood and thorns and grows out of 
your palm. When you cast shillelagh, your Pact Blade 
is affected by the spell, regardless of the form your Pact 
Blade takes.
Pact of the Tome. The Old Wood grows a tome for you. 
The tome’s cover is hardened bark from the forest’s 
native trees, and its pages are leaves, whose color 
changes with the seasons. If you want to add a new 
spell to your book, you must first plant it in the ground. 
After 1 hour, the book emerges from the soil with the 
new spell inscribed on its leaves. If your tome is lost or 
destroyed, you must return to your patron forest for it 
to grow you a new one.
ELDRITCH INVOCATIONS 
Here are new options for the warlock’s Eldritch 
Invocations class feature. If an eldritch invocation has 
prerequisites, you must meet them to learn it. You can 
learn the invocation at the same time that you meet its 
prerequisites. A level prerequisite refers to your level in 
this class.
Doom Hound
Prerequisite: 7th level, Pact of the Chain feature, Hunter 
in Darkness patron
As a bonus action, your familiar transforms into a more 
powerful creature for 1 minute. At 7th level and higher, 
it transforms into a dire wolf. At 12th level and higher, it 
transforms into a winter wolf. At 18th level and higher, 
it transforms into a hound of the night (Tome of Beasts, 
p. 251). You must finish a short or long rest before you 
can use this invocation on your familiar again.
Entangling Blast
Prerequisite: 5th level, eldritch blast cantrip, Old Wood 
patron
When you hit a creature with eldritch blast, the creature 
must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or be 
grappled by roots, vines, and other vegetation until the 
end of its next turn. The DC for this saving throw and 
to escape this grapple is your spell save DC.
Extinguishing Blast
Prerequisite: eldritch blast cantrip, Hunter in Darkness 
patron
When you hit a creature with eldritch blast, you reduce 
the light surrounding it until the end of your next turn. 
If the creature is in bright light, the area within 10 feet 
of it becomes dim light. If the creature is in dim light, 
the area within 10 feet of it becomes darkness. 
Forest-Trained
You gain proficiency in the Nature and Survival skills.
Green Thumb
Prerequisite: 5th level, Old Wood patron
You can cast plant growth once using a warlock spell 
slot. You can’t do so again until you finish a long rest.
Knowledge of the Wood
Prerequisite: 15th level, Old Wood patron
When you are within 5 feet of a body of water in a 
forest, you can cast scrying on any creature in that forest 
at will, without expending a warlock spell slot.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 32 ---
30
Lurker in Gloom
Prerequisite: 7th level, Hunter in Darkness patron
As a reaction when you take damage while in dim light 
or darkness, you wrap shadows around yourself and 
have resistance to that instance of damage.
Once you use this invocation, you can’t use it again 
until you finish a short or long rest. 
Nature’s Armor
Prerequisite: Old Wood patron
You can use your action to sprout hard thorns across 
your skin for 1 hour. For the duration, your Armor 
Class becomes 12 plus your Dexterity modifier, and, 
when a creature hits you with a melee weapon attack 
while within 5 feet of you, it takes piercing damage 
equal to half your warlock level. You must finish a short 
or long rest before you can use this invocation again.
Patient Hunter
Prerequisite: Pact of the Tome feature, Hunter in 
Darkness patron
When you identify a creature’s tracks 
using your tome, you have advantage 
on Wisdom (Perception) and Wisdom 
(Survival) checks to find and track the 
creature for the next 24 hours. 
Shadow Arrow
Prerequisite: 12th level, Pact of the Blade 
feature, Hunter in Darkness patron
When you hit a creature with an 
arrow shot from your pact weapon, 
you can fire a second, shadow arrow 
at the creature as a bonus action. 
If it hits, the shadow arrow deals 
necrotic damage equal 
to the damage of the 
first arrow.
Silent Stalker
You gain proficiency in the Stealth and Survival skills.
Speaker for the Trees
Prerequisite: 9th level, Old Wood patron
You can cast speak with plants at will, without 
expending a spell slot.
Touch of the Forest
Prerequisite: 9th level, Old Wood patron
You can cast awaken once using a warlock spell slot. 
You can’t do so again until you finish a long rest.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 33 ---
31
Wizard
Among the shadow fey, few delights are as intoxicating 
as the thrill of the hunt. Shadow fey hunters 
particularly gifted in magic learned to weave their 
magic into their archery, birthing the Courser Mage 
Arcane Tradition. 
ARCANE TRADITION: COURSER MAGE
A tradition more focused on stalking prey than 
reading dozens of books, courser mages generally 
choose more subtle spells that aid in finding or 
hiding from their enemies. They learn to imbue 
their arrows with spell energy to deliver more 
deadly shots.
STALKING SAVANT
At 2nd level, you gain proficiency with 
longbows and shortbows, and you gain 
proficiency in the Stealth skill. In 
addition, you can still perform the 
somatic components of wizard spells 
even when you have a longbow or 
shortbow in one or both hands.
UNSEEN ASSAILANT
Starting at 2nd level, as a 
bonus action, you can 
choose a target you can 
see within 60 feet 
of you and become 
invisible to that target 
until the start of your next 
turn. Once the effect ends, you 
can’t use this feature on that target 
again until you finish a long rest.
SPELL ARROW
Beginning at 6th level, you can imbue an arrow 
you fire from a longbow or shortbow with magical 
energy. As a bonus action, you can expend a 1st-
level spell slot to cause the next arrow you fire to 
magically deal an extra 2d4 force damage to the 
target on a hit. If you expend a spell slot of 2nd level or 
higher, the extra damage increases by 1d4 for each slot 
level above 1st.  
PINPOINT WEAKNESS
Beginning at 10th level, when you hit a creature with 
an arrow imbued by your Spell Arrow feature, your 
next ranged weapon attack against that creature has 
advantage. 
MULTITUDINOUS ARROWS
Starting at 14th level, you can attack twice, instead 
of once, whenever you take the Attack action with a 
longbow or shortbow on your turn. If you use your 
Spell Arrow feature, you can imbue both arrows with 
arcane power by expending one spell slot. If you imbue 
two arrows with this feature, you can’t cast spells other 
than cantrips until the end of your next turn.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 34 ---
32
Sometimes those native to the forests of Midgard are 
called by some great event to leave their villages or the 
forest itself. Though away from their homes, Forest 
Dwellers always carry the forest in their hearts.
Background:  
Forest Dweller
You are a creature of the forest, born and reared under 
a canopy of green. You expected to live all your days 
in the Margreve, at one with the green things of the 
world, until an unforeseen occurrence, traumatic or 
transformative, drove you from your familiar home 
and into the larger world. Civilization is strange to 
you, the open sky unfamiliar, and the bizarre ways 
of the so‑called civilized world run counter to the 
truths of the Old Ways.
Skill Proficiencies: Nature, Survival
Tool Proficiencies: Woodcarver’s tools,  
herbalism kit
Languages: Sylvan
Equipment: A set of common clothes, a hunting trap, 
a wood staff, a whetstone, an explorer’s pack, and a 
pouch containing 5 gp
FEATURE:  FORESTER
Your experience living, hunting, and foraging in 
the woods gives you a wealth of experience to draw 
upon when you are traveling within a forest. If you 
spend 1 hour observing, examining, and exploring 
your surroundings while in a forest, you are able to 
identify a safe location to rest. The area is protected 
from all but the most extreme elements and from the 
non‑magical native beasts of the forest. In addition, 
you are able to find sufficient kindling for a small fire 
throughout the night.
Background and Feats
SUGGESTED CHARACTERISTICS
Forest dwellers tend towards solitude, introspection, 
and self-sufficiency. You keep your own council, and 
you are more likely to watch from a distance than get 
involved in the affairs of others. You are wary, slow to 
trust, and cautious of depending on outsiders.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 35 ---
33
LIFE-CHANGING EVENT
You have lived a simple life deep in the sheltering 
boughs of the Margreve, be it as a trapper, farmer, or 
villager eking out a simple existence in the forest. But 
D8
EVENT
1
You were living within the Western forest when the cesspools of magical refuse expanded and drove away the 
game that sustained you. You had to move to avoid the prospect of a long, slow demise via starvation.
2
Your village was razed by a contingent of Ghost Knights from King Lucan of the Grand Duchy of Morgau. For 
reasons of its own, the Margreve protected and hid you from their raid. 
3
The Night Cauldron of Chernobog has bolstered the ranks of the mindless undead within the Northern Swamps. A 
roving band of skeletons and zombies attacked your family while you were hunting.
4
You are an ardent believer in the Old Ways. When the people of your village abandoned those beliefs, you were 
cast out and expelled into the Margreve.
5
You wandered into the Margreve as a child and became lost. For inexplicable reasons, the forest took an interest 
in you. You have faint memories of a village and have had no contact with civilization in many years.
6
You were your village’s premier hunter. They relied on you for game and without your contributions their survival 
in the winter was questionable. Upon returning from your last hunt, you found your village in ruins, as if decades 
had passed overnight.
7
Your quiet, peaceful, and solitary existence has been interrupted with dreams of the forest’s destruction, and the 
urge to leave your home compels you to seek answers.
8
Once in a hidden glen, you danced with golden fey and forgotten gods. Nothing in your life since approaches that 
transcendent moment, cursing you with a wanderlust to seek something that could. 
something happened that set you on a different path 
and marked you for greater things. Choose or randomly 
determine a defining event that caused you to leave 
your home for the wider world.
D8
PERSONALITY TRAIT
1
I will never forget being hungry in the winter. I field dress beasts that fall to blade or arrow so that I am never 
hungry again.
2
I may be alone in the forest, but I am only ever lonely in cities. 
3
Walking barefoot allows me to interact more intuitively with the natural world.
4
The road is just another kind of wall. I make my own paths and go where I will.
5
Others seek the gods in temples and shrines, but I know their will is only revealed in the natural world, not an 
edifice constructed by so-called worshippers. I pray in the woods, never indoors. 
6
What you call personal hygiene, I call an artificially-imposed distraction from natural living.
7
No forged weapon can replace the sheer joy of a kill accomplished only with hands and teeth.
8
Time lived alone has made me accustomed to talking loudly to myself, something I still do even when others are 
present. 
D6
IDEAL
1
Change. As the seasons shift, so too does the world around us. To resist is futile and anathema to the natural 
order. (Chaotic)
2
Conservation. All life should be preserved and, if needed, protected. (Good)
3
Acceptance. I am a part of my forest, no different from any other flora and fauna. To think otherwise is arrogance 
and folly. When I die, it will be as a leaf falling in the woods. (Neutral)
4
Cull. The weak must be removed for the strong to thrive. (Evil)
5
Candor. I am open, plain, and simple in life, word, and actions. (Any)
6
Balance. The forest does not lie. The beasts do not create war. Equity in all things is the way of nature. (Neutral)
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 36 ---
34
VARIANT FOREST DWELLER:  
FERAL ONE
You abandoned civilization, or civilization abandoned 
you, for the forest long ago. Regardless of whether it 
was by choice or by chance, the effect on you is the 
same. You live, hunt, eat, and sleep in solitude. Caves 
are your shelter, the ground your bed, and the creatures 
of the forest your companions. You have learned that 
you can trust no one but yourself and that you will live, 
and ultimately die, by your skills, wits, and strength. 
VARIANT FEATURE: THE FOREST PROVIDES
Having spent most of your life within the forest 
providing for yourself, you have learned how to forage, 
hunt, and fish well enough to ensure your survival in a 
forest. If you spend 2 hours investigating game trails, 
spoor, and foliage in a forest, you are able to procure 
enough food to feed yourself and up to four others for 
one day. In addition, you are able to determine if any 
water you find in the forest is potable.   
Feats
The feats presented here reflect a character’s connection 
to the forest or to the hunt. Even if the optional rules for 
feats are in use in your campaign, check with your GM 
before adding any of these options to your character. 
Forest Denizen
You are familiar with the ways of the forest. You gain 
the following benefits:
•	 Increase your Wisdom score by 1, to a maximum 
of 20.
•	 You can discern if a plant or fungal growth is safe 
to eat.
•	 You learn to speak, read, and write Sylvan.
•	 You have advantage on Strength (Athletics) and 
Dexterity (Acrobatics) checks you make to escape 
from being grappled or restrained as long as you 
are being grappled or restrained by nonmagical 
vegetation or a beast’s action such as a giant frog’s 
bite or a spider’s web. 
D6
BOND
1
When I lose a trusted friend or companion, I plant a tree upon their grave.
2
The voice of the forest guides me, comforts me, and protects me.
3
The hermit who raised me and taught me the ways of the forest is the most important person in my life.
4
I have a wooden doll, a tiny wickerman, that I made as a child and carry with me at all times.
5
I know that the ways of civilizations rise and fall. The forest and the Old Ways are eternal.
6
I am driven to protect the natural order from those that would disrupt it.
D6
FLAW
1
I am accustomed to doing what I like when I like. I’m bad at compromising, and I must exert real effort to make 
even basic conversation with other people. 
2
I won’t harm a beast without just cause or provocation.
3
Years of isolated living has left me blind to the nuances of social interaction. It is a struggle not to view every new 
encounter through the lens of fight or flight.
4
The decay after death is merely the loam from which new growth springs—and I enjoy nurturing new growth. 
5
An accident that I caused incurred great damage upon my forest, and, as penance, I have placed myself in self-
imposed exile.
6
I distrust the undead and the unliving, and I refuse to work with them.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 37 ---
35
Forest-Bound
Prerequisite: Druid and the performance of a service as 
specified by the forest
You bind yourself to the forest for which you 
performed a service and gain the following benefits:
•	 Increase your Constitution or Wisdom score by 1, 
to a maximum of 20.
•	 You have advantage on Wisdom (Survival) checks 
made within your bound forest.
•	 You can cast spells with the “forest-bound” 
requirement as if you were a Circle of Oaks druid 
(see page 17). To prepare such a spell, it must be 
of a level for which you have spell slots. If the 
forest to which you are bound is ever destroyed 
or if you break your bond with the forest (such 
as through destruction of your forest), you lose 
access to these spells. At your GM’s discretion, 
you can bind yourself to a new forest (if your 
forest was destroyed) or make amends to 
your bound forest (if you broke your bond).
Friend of the Forest
After spending some time in forests, 
you have attuned yourself to the ways 
of the woods and the creatures in 
it. You learn the treeheal (see page 
49) cantrip and two other druid 
cantrips of your choice. You also learn the 
speak with animals spell and can cast it once 
without expending a spell slot. Once you cast it, 
you must finish a short or long rest before you 
can cast it in this way again. Your spellcasting 
ability for these spells is Wisdom.
Harrier
Prerequisite: The Shadow Traveler shadow 
fey trait or the ability to cast the misty 
step spell
You have learned to maximize the 
strategic impact of your misty step. 
You appear in a flash and, while your 
foe is disoriented, attack with deadly 
precision. You gain the following benefits:
•	 Increase  your Strength or Dexterity score by 1, to 
a maximum of 20.
•	 When you use your Shadow Traveler trait or cast 
misty step, you have advantage on the next attack 
you make before the end of your turn.
Stalker
You are an expert at hunting prey. You are never more 
at home than when on a hunt, and your quarry rarely 
escapes you. You gain the following benefits:
•	 You gain proficiency in the Stealth and Survival 
skills. 
•	 You have advantage on Wisdom (Survival) checks 
made to track a creature you have seen in the past 
24 hours.
Stunning Sniper
Prerequisite: Proficiency with a ranged weapon
You have mastered the use of ranged weapons to 
cripple your target from a distance. When you score 
a critical hit on a ranged attack roll, you can stun 
the target until the start of your next turn instead of 
doubling the damage.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 38 ---
36
Spells related to hunting or surviving in the Margreve 
and spells related to forestry in general are detailed here. 
The spells are listed in alphabetical order. Refer to specific 
spell lists to see which spells your character can use.
Spell Lists
The spell lists are organized by class. Some GMs might allow 
only spells associated with specific schools, domains, backgrounds, 
etc., or some GMs might throw the doors wide open and allow 
everything. Check with your GM before selecting spells from these lists.
Spells
BARD SPELLS
Cantrips (0 Level)
Hamstring
Hobble
1st Level
Agonizing Mark
2nd Level
Bleating Call
Shadow’s Brand
3rd Level
Legion of Rabid   	
	 Squirrels
4th Level
Harry
5th Level
Maim
CLERIC SPELLS
Cantrips (0 Level)
Hobble
1st Level
Agonizing Mark
2nd Level
Shadow’s Brand
4th Level
Harry
5th Level
Maim
DRUID SPELLS
Cantrips (0 Level)
Hobble
Treeheal
1st Level
Agonizing Mark
Ambush
Bloodhound
Cure Beast
Forest Native
Illuminate Spoor
Mud Pack
Scentless
Tree Speak
2nd Level
Mark Prey
Nip at the Heels
Revive Beast
Shadow Tree
3rd Level
Blood Offering
Cynophobia
Going in Circles
Legion of Rabid     	
	  Squirrels
Ley Disturbance
Monstrous Empathy
Tracer
4th Level
Harry
Hunting Stand
Looping Trail
Quick Time
5th Level
Conjure Fey Hound
Harrying Hounds
Lesser Ley Protection
Maim
6th Level
Conjure Forest 
Defender
7th Level
Greater Ley Protection
9th Level
Forest Sanctuary
RANGER SPELLS
1st Level
Agonizing Mark
Ambush
Bleed
Bloodhound
Cobra Fangs
Cure Beast
Hunter’s Endurance
Illuminate Spoor
Mud Pack
Scentless
2nd Level
Bestial Fury
Bleating Call
Instant Snare
Mark Prey
Nip at the Heels
Revive Beast
Shadow’s Brand
Shadow Tree
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 39 ---
37
3rd Level
Blood Offering
Cynophobia
Going in Circles
Legion of Rabid     	
	  Squirrels
Monstrous Empathy
Tracer
4th Level
Harry
Heart-Seeking Arrow
Hunting Stand
Looping Trail
Storm of Wings
5th Level
Conjure Fey Hound
Harrying Hounds
Killing Fields
Primal Infusion
SPELL DESCRIPTIONS
All spells are listed in alphabetical order. Some of the 
spells indicate if they are limited to usage by only certain 
types of characters. For example, a spell labeled as 
“forest-bound” requires the spellcaster to be a Circle of 
Oaks druid who is bound to a forest. Similarly, some of 
the spells listed below are favored by shadow fey hunters 
and might be better suited for villains and NPCs rather 
than player characters. Check with your GM to find out 
which spells are allowed for your campaign.
AGONIZING MARK
1st-level evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components: S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You choose a creature you can see within range to mark 
as your prey, and a jagged ray of black energy issues 
forth from you. Until the spell ends, each time you deal 
damage to the target it must make a Charisma saving 
SORCERER SPELLS
Cantrips (0 Level)
Hamstring
Hobble
1st Level
Agonizing Mark
Ambush
Bloodhound
Mud Pack
Scentless
2nd Level
Bleating Call
Shadow’s Brand
Shadow Tree
3rd Level
Blood Offering
Cynophobia
Going in Circles
4th Level
Harry
Looping Trail
5th Level
Conjure Fey Hound
Harrying Hounds
Maim
WARLOCK SPELLS
Cantrips (0 Level)
Hamstring
Hobble
1st Level
Bleed
Hunter’s Endurance
2nd Level
Shadow’s Brand
3rd Level
Blood Offering
Cynophobia
Going in Circles
4th Level
Looping Trail
5th Level
Harrying Hounds
WIZARD SPELLS
Cantrips (0 Level)
Hamstring
Hobble
1st Level
Agonizing Mark
Ambush
Bloodhound
Mud Pack
Scentless
2nd Level
Bleating Call
Shadow’s Brand
Shadow Tree
3rd Level
Blood Offering
Cynophobia
Going in Circles
4th Level
Harry
Looping Trail
5th Level
Conjure Fey Hound
Harrying Hounds
Maim
throw. On a failed save, it falls prone as its body is filled 
with torturous agony.
AMBUSH
1st-level illusion
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: S, M (a raven’s feather or a bit of  
panther fur)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
The forest floor swirls and shifts around you to 
welcome you into its embrace. While in a forest, you 
have advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks to Hide. 
While hidden in a forest, you have advantage on your 
next Initiative check. The spell ends if you attack or 
cast a spell.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using 
a spell slot of 2nd-level or higher, you can affect one 
additional creature for each slot level above 1st. The 
spell ends if you or any target of this spell attacks or 
casts a spell.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 40 ---
38
BESTIAL FURY
2nd-level enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You instill primal fury into a creature you can see 
within range. The target must make a Charisma saving 
throw; a creature can choose to fail this saving throw. 
On a failure, the target must use its action to attack 
its nearest enemy it can see with unarmed strikes or 
natural weapons. For the duration, the target’s attacks 
deal an extra 1d6 damage of the same type dealt by its 
weapon, and the target can’t be charmed or frightened. 
If there are no enemies within reach, the target can use 
its action to repeat the saving throw, ending the effect 
on a success.  
This spell has no effect on undead or constructs.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using 
a spell slot of 3nd level or higher, you can target one 
additional creature for each slot level above 2nd.
BLEATING CALL
2nd-level enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components: S, M (a bit of fur or hair from a young 
beast or humanoid)
Duration: 1 minute
You create a sound on a point within range. The sound’s 
volume can range from a whisper to a scream, and it 
can be any sound you choose. The sound continues 
unabated throughout the duration, or you can make 
discrete sounds at different times before the spell ends.
Each creature that starts its turn within 30 feet of the 
sound and can hear it must make a Wisdom saving 
throw. On a failed save, the target must take the Dash 
or Disengage action and move toward the sound by 
the safest available route on each of its turns. When it 
arrives to the source of the sound, the target must use 
its action to examine the sound. Once it has examined 
the sound, the target determines the sound is illusory 
and can no longer hear it, ending the spell’s effects 
on that target and preventing the target from being 
affected by the sound again for the duration of the spell. 
If a target takes damage from you or a creature friendly 
to you, it is no longer under the effects of this spell. 
Creatures that can’t be charmed are immune to this 
spell. 
BLEED
1st-level necromancy
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a drop of blood)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Crackling energy coats the blade of one weapon you 
are carrying that deals slashing damage. Until the 
spell ends, when you hit a target with the weapon, the 
weapon deals an extra 1d4 necrotic damage and the 
target must succeed on a Constitution saving throw. 
On a failed save, the target suffers a bleeding wound. 
Each time you hit a target with this weapon while the 
target suffers from a bleeding wound, your weapon 
deals an extra 1 necrotic damage for each time you 
have previously hit the target with this weapon (to a 
maximum of 10 necrotic damage). 
Any creature can take an action to stanch the bleeding 
wound with a successful Wisdom (Medicine) check 
against your spell save DC. The wound also closes if the 
target receives magical healing. This spell has no effect 
on undead or constructs.
BLOODHOUND
1st-level transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a drop of ammonia)
Duration: 8 hours
You touch a willing creature to grant it an enhanced 
sense of smell. For the duration, that creature has 
advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on 
smell and on Wisdom (Survival) checks to follow tracks.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a 
3rd-level spell slot, you also grant the target blindsight 
out to a range of 30 feet for the duration. The target 
can’t use its blindsight while unable to smell, and it has 
disadvantage on saving throws related to strong smells 
such as a ghast’s Stench trait.
BLOOD OFFERING
3rd-level necromancy
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (at least 1 cubic inch of flesh 
from the target corpse, which the spell consumes)
Duration: Instantaneous
You touch the corpse of a target creature that isn’t 
undead or a construct and consume its life force. You 
must have dealt damage to the creature before it died, 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 41 ---
39
and it must have been dead for no more than 1 hour. 
The creature can be restored to life only by means of a 
true resurrection or a wish spell.
You regain 1d4 hit points per CR of the target creature 
(minimum of 1d4). 
COBRA FANGS
1st-level transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a drop of snake venom or a 
patch of snakeskin)
Duration: 1 minute
The spell causes the target to grow great, snake-like 
fangs. An unwilling creature must make a Wisdom 
saving throw to avoid the effect. The spell fails if the 
target already has a bite attack that deals poison damage. 
If the target doesn’t have a bite attack, it gains one. The 
target is proficient with the bite, and it adds its Strength 
modifier to the attack and damage rolls. The damage is 
piercing and the damage die is a d4. 
When the target hits a creature with its bite attack, the 
creature must make a Constitution saving throw, taking 
3d6 poison damage on a failed save, or half as much 
damage on a successful one. 
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a 
spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the target’s bite counts 
as magical for the purpose of overcoming resistance 
and immunity to nonmagical attacks and damage. 
CONJURE FEY HOUND
5th-level conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a wooden or metal whistle)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
You summon a fey hound to fight by your side. A 
hound of the night (Tome of Beasts, p. 251) appears in 
an unoccupied space that you can see within range. The 
hound disappears when it drops to 0 hit points or when 
the spell ends.
The summoned hound is friendly to you and your 
companions. Roll initiative for the summoned hound, 
which has its own turns. It obeys any verbal commands 
that you issue to it (no action required by you). If you 
don’t issue any commands to the hound, it stands by 
your side and attacks nearby creatures that are hostile 
to you but otherwise takes no actions. 
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using 
a spell slot of 7th level or higher, you summon two 
hounds. When you cast this spell using a 9th-level spell 
slot, you summon three hounds. 
CONJURE FOREST DEFENDER
6th-level conjuration (forest-bound)
Casting Time: 1 hour
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (one humanoid body, which the 
spell consumes)
Duration: Until destroyed
When you cast this spell in a forest, you fasten sticks 
and twigs around a body. The body comes to life as a 
forest defender, which uses the statistics of a vine golem 
(Tales of the Old Margreve, p. 189). The forest defender 
is friendly to you and your companions. Roll initiative 
for the forest defender, which has its own turns. It obeys 
any verbal or mental commands that you issue to it (no 
action required by you), as long as you remain within 
the forest defender’s line of sight. If you don’t issue 
any commands to the forest defender, if you are out of 
its line of sight, or if you are unconscious, it defends 
itself from hostile creatures but otherwise takes no 
actions. A body sacrificed to form the forest defender 
is permanently destroyed and can be restored to life 
only by means of a true resurrection or a wish spell. You 
can have only one forest defender under your control 
at a time. If you cast this spell again, the previous forest 
defender crumbles to dust. 
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a 
9th level spell slot, you summon two forest defenders 
instead of one, and you can control up to two forest 
defenders at a time.
CURE BEAST
1st-level evocation
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
A beast of your choice that you can see within range 
regains a number of hit points equal to 1d6 + your 
spellcasting modifier. 
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a 
spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the healing increases by 
1d6 for each slot level above 1st.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 42 ---
40
CYNOPHOBIA
3rd-level enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a dog’s tooth)
Duration: 8 hours
Choose a creature that you can see within range. The 
target must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or 
develop an overriding fear of canids, such as dogs, 
wolves, foxes, and worgs. For the duration, the first 
time the target sees a canid, the target must succeed on 
a Wisdom saving throw or become frightened of that 
canid until the end of its next turn. Each time the target 
sees a different canid, it must make the saving throw. In 
addition, the target has disadvantage on ability checks 
and attack rolls while a canid is within 10 feet of it.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using 
a 5th-level spell slot, the duration is 24 hours. When 
you use a 7th-level spell slot, , the duration is 1 month. 
When you use a spell slot of 8th level or higher, the 
spell lasts until it is dispelled.
FOREST NATIVE
1st-level transmutation (forest-bound)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a clump of soil taken from  
the forest)
Duration: 1 hour
While in a forest, you touch a willing creature and 
infuse it with the forest’s energy, creating a bond 
between the creature and the forest. For the duration 
of the spell, if the creature is within the forest, difficult 
terrain composed of natural, nonmagical vegetation 
doesn’t cost it extra movement. In addition, the creature 
has advantage on saving throws against environmental 
effects such as excessive heat or cold or high altitude. 
FOREST SANCTUARY
9th-level abjuration (forest-bound)
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: 300 feet
Components: V, S, M (a bowl of fresh rainwater and a 
tree branch from the target forest)
Duration: 24 hours
While in a forest, you create a protective, 200-foot cube 
on a point you can see within range. The atmosphere 
inside the cube has the lighting, temperature, and 
moisture that is most ideal for the forest, regardless 
of the lighting or weather outside the area. The cube 
is transparent and creatures and objects can move 
freely through it. The cube protects the area inside it 
from storms, strong winds, and floods, including those 
created by magic such as control weather, control water, 
meteor swarm, or ley storm. Such spells can’t be cast 
while the spellcaster is within the cube. An elemental 
creature with storm-like traits (such as an elemental 
lord’s Tempest trait) has those traits suppressed while 
within the area. 
You can create a permanently protected area by casting 
this spell at the same location every day for one year.
GOING IN CIRCLES
3rd-level illusion
Casting Time: 10 minutes
Range: Sight
Components: V, S, M (a piece of the target terrain)
Duration: 24 hours
You make natural terrain in a 1 mile cube difficult 
to traverse. A creature in the affected area has 
disadvantage on Wisdom (Survival) checks to follow 
tracks or travel safely through the area as paths through 
the terrain seem to twist and turn nonsensically. The 
terrain itself isn’t changed, only the perception of those 
inside it. A creature who succeeds on two Wisdom 
(Survival) checks while within the terrain discerns the 
illusion for what it is and sees the illusory twists and 
turns superimposed on the terrain. A creature that 
re-enters the area after exiting it before the spell ends 
is affected by the spell even if it previously succeeded 
in traversing the terrain. A creature with truesight can 
see through the illusion and is unaffected by the spell. A 
creature that casts find the path automatically succeeds 
in discovering a way out of the terrain. 
When you cast this spell, you can designate a 
password. A creature that speaks the password as it 
enters the area automatically sees the illusion and is 
unaffected by the spell.
If you cast this spell on the same spot every day for 
one year, the illusion lasts until it is dispelled.
GREATER LEY PROTECTION
7th-level abjuration (forest-bound)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You create a 20-foot cube of antimagic within range 
that specifically protects against ley line magic. Ley 
line spells and magical effects up to level 7 that target a 
creature within the cube have no effect on that target. 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 43 ---
41
Any active ley line spells or magical effects up to level 
7 on a creature or an object in the cube is suppressed 
while the creature or object is in it. The area of a ley line 
spell or magical effect up to level 7 can’t extend into the 
cube. If the cube overlaps an area of ley line magic, such 
as greater ley pulse, the part of the area that is covered 
by the cube is suppressed. The cube has no effect on 
other types of magic or spells. You can exclude specific 
individuals within the cube from the protection.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using 
a spell slot of 9th level or higher, its duration is 
concentration, up to 1 hour.
HAMSTRING
Evocation cantrip
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: S
Duration: Instantaneous
You create a barbed arrow of eldritch energy 
and send it at a target you can see within 
range. Make a ranged spell attack against 
the target. On a hit, the target takes 1d4 
force damage, and it can’t take reactions 
until the end of its next turn.
The spell’s damage increases by 1d4 when you reach 
5th level (2d4), 11th level (3d4), and 17th level (4d4).
HARRY
4th-level enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S, M (a bit of fur from a game animal)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
You instill an irresistible sense of insecurity and terror 
in the target. The target must make a Wisdom saving 
throw. On a failed save, the target has disadvantage on 
Dexterity (Stealth) checks to avoid your notice and is 
frightened of you while you are within its line of sight. 
While you are within 1 mile of the target, you have 
advantage on Wisdom (Survival) checks to track the 
target, and the target can’t take a long rest, terrified you 
are just around the corner. The target can repeat the 
saving throw once every 10 minutes, ending the spell 
on a success. 
On a successful save, the target isn’t affected, and you 
can’t use this spell against it again for 24 hours.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell with a 
6th-level spell slot, the duration is concentration, up to 
8 hours and the target can repeat the saving throw once 
each hour. When you use a spell slot of 8th 
level or higher, the duration is concentration, 
up to 24 hours, and the target can repeat the saving 
throw every 8 hours.
HARRYING HOUNDS
5th-level enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 180 feet
Components: V, S, M (a tuft of fur from a hunting dog)
Duration: 8 hours
When you cast this spell, choose a direction (north, 
south, northeast, etc.). Each creature in a 20-foot-
radius sphere centered on a point you choose within 
range must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw when 
you cast this spell or be affected by it.
When an affected creature travels, it travels at a fast 
pace in the opposite direction of the direction you 
chose as it believes a pack of dogs or wolves follows it 
from the chosen direction. When an affected creature 
isn’t traveling, it is frightened of your chosen direction. 
The affected creature occasionally hears howls or sees 
glowing eyes in the darkness at the edge of its vision 
in that direction. An affected creature will not stop at 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 44 ---
42
a destination, instead pacing half-circles around the 
destination until the effect ends, terrified the pack will 
overcome it if it stops moving. An affected creature can 
make a Wisdom saving throw at the end of each 4-hour 
period, ending the effect on itself on a success. 
An affected creature moves along the safest available 
route, unless it has nowhere to move such as if it arrives 
to the edge of a cliff. When an affected creature can’t 
safely move in the opposite direction of your chosen 
direction, it cowers in place, defending itself from 
hostile creatures but otherwise takes no actions. In 
such circumstances, the affected creature can repeat the 
saving throw every minute, ending the effect on itself 
on a success. The spell’s effect is suspended when an 
affected creature is engaged in combat, allowing it to 
move as necessary to face hostile creatures.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a 
spell slot of 6th level or higher, the duration increases 
by 4 hours for each slot level above 5th. If an affected 
creature travels for more than 8 hours, it risks 
exhaustion as if on a forced march.
HEART-SEEKING ARROW
4th-level transmutation
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
The next time you make a ranged weapon attack during 
the spell’s duration, the weapon’s ammunition, or the 
weapon itself if it’s a thrown weapon, seeks its target’s 
vital organs. Make the attack roll as normal. On a hit, 
the weapon deals an extra 6d6 damage of the same 
type dealt by the weapon, or half as much damage on 
a miss as it streaks unerringly toward its target.  If this 
attack reduces the target to 0 hit points, the target has 
disadvantage on its next death saving throw, and, if it 
dies, it can be restored to life only by means of a true 
resurrection or a wish spell. This spell has no effect on 
undead or constructs.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a 
spell slot of 5th level or higher, the extra damage on a 
hit increases by 1d6 for each slot level above 4th.
HOBBLE
Evocation cantrip
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a broken rabbit’s foot)
Duration: Instantaneous
You create an ethereal trap in the space of a target you 
can see within range. The target must succeed on a 
Dexterity saving throw or its speed is halved until the 
end of its next turn.
HUNTER’S ENDURANCE
1st-level enchantment
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a fingernail, lock of hair, bit of 
fur, or drop of blood from the target, if unfamiliar)
Duration: 24 hours
You call on the land to sustain you as you hunt your 
quarry. Describe or name a creature that is familiar to 
you. If you aren’t familiar with the target creature, you 
must use a fingernail, lock of hair, bit of fur, or drop of 
blood from it as a material component to target that 
creature with this spell. 
Until the spell ends, you have advantage on all 
Wisdom (Perception) and Wisdom (Survival) checks to 
find and track the target, and you must actively pursue 
the target as if under a geas. In addition, you don’t 
suffer from exhaustion levels you gain from pursuing 
your quarry, such as from lack of rest or environmental 
hazards between you and the target, while the spell is 
active. When the spell ends, you suffer from all levels of 
exhaustion that were suspended by the spell. The spell 
ends only after 24 hours, when the target is dead, when 
the target is on a different plane, or when the target is 
restrained in your line of sight. 
HUNTING STAND
4th-level conjuration
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S, M (a crude model of the stand)
Duration: 8 hours
You make a 10-foot-cube camouflaged shelter nestled 
in the branches of a tree or among a collection of 
stones. The shelter can hold as many as twelve Medium 
or smaller creatures. The atmosphere inside the shelter 
is comfortable and dry, regardless of the weather 
outside. The shelter’s camouflage provides a modicum 
of concealment to its inhabitants. A creature outside the 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 45 ---
43
shelter has disadvantage on Wisdom (Perception) and 
Intelligence (Investigation) checks to detect or locate a 
creature within the shelter.
ILLUMINATE SPOOR
1st-level divination
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a firefly)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
You touch a set of tracks created by a single creature. 
That set of tracks and all other tracks made by the 
same creature give off a faint glow. You and up to three 
creatures you designate when you cast this spell can see 
the glow. A creature that can see the glow automatically 
succeeds on Wisdom (Survival) checks to track that 
creature. If the tracks are covered by obscuring objects 
such as leaves or mud, you and the creatures you 
designate have advantage on Wisdom (Survival) checks 
to follow the tracks.
If the creature leaving the tracks changes its tracks, 
such as by adding or removing footwear, the glow stops 
where the tracks change. Until the spell ends, you can 
use an action to touch and illuminate a new set of tracks.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using 
a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the duration is 
concentration, up to 8 hours. When you use a spell slot 
of 5th level or higher, the duration is concentration, up 
to 24 hours.
INSTANT SNARE
2nd-level abjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S, M (a loop of twine)
Duration: 24 hours
You create a snare on a point you can see within range. 
You can leave the snare as a magical trap, or you can 
use your reaction to trigger the trap when a Larger or 
smaller creature you can see moves within 10 feet of the 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 46 ---
44
snare. If you leave the snare as a trap, a creature must 
succeed on an Intelligence (Investigation) or Wisdom 
(Perception) check against your spell save DC to find 
the trap.
When a Large or smaller creature moves within 5 feet 
of the snare, the trap triggers. The creature must succeed 
on a Dexterity saving throw or be magically pulled into 
the air. The creature is restrained and hangs upside 
down 5 feet above the snare’s location for 1 minute. A 
restrained creature can repeat the saving throw at the 
end of each of its turns, escaping the snare on a success. 
Alternatively, a creature, including the restrained target, 
can use its action to make an Intelligence (Arcana) 
check against your spell save DC. On a success, the 
restrained creature is freed, and the snare resets itself 1 
minute later. If the creature succeeds on the check by 5 
or more, the snare is destroyed instead.
This spell alerts you with a ping in your mind when 
the trap is triggered if you are within 1 mile of the 
snare. This ping awakens you if you are sleeping.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using 
a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, you can create one 
additional snare for each slot level above 3rd. When 
you receive the mental ping that a trap was triggered, 
you know which snare was triggered if you have more 
than one.
KILLING FIELDS
5th-level transmutation
Casting Time: 10 minutes
Range: 300 feet
Components: V, S, M (a game animal, which must be 
sacrificed as part of casting the spell)
Duration: 24 hours
You invoke primal spirits of nature to transform natural 
terrain in a 100-foot cube in range into a private hunting 
preserve. The area can’t include manufactured structures 
and if such a structure exists in the area, the spell ends.
While you are conscious and within the area, you 
are aware of the presence and direction, though not 
exact location, of each beast and monstrosity with an 
Intelligence of 3 or lower in the area. When a beast 
or monstrosity with an Intelligence of 3 or lower 
tries to leave the area, it must make a Wisdom saving 
throw. On a failure, it is disoriented, uncertain of its 
surroundings or direction, and remains within the area 
for 1 hour. On a success, it leaves the area.
When you cast this spell, you can specify individuals 
that are helped by the area’s effects. All other creatures in 
the area are hindered by the area’s effects.  You can also 
specify a password that, when spoken aloud, gives the 
speaker the benefits of being helped by the area’s effects.
Killing fields creates the following effects within the area.
Pack Hunters. A helped creature has advantage on 
attack rolls against a hindered creature if at least one 
helped ally is within 5 feet of the hindered creature 
and the helped ally isn’t incapacitated.
Slaying. Once per turn, when a helped creature hits 
with any weapon, the weapon deals an extra 1d6 
damage of the same type dealt by its weapon to a 
hindered creature.
Tracking. A helped creature has advantage on 
Wisdom (Survival) and Dexterity (Stealth) checks 
against a hindered creature. 
You can create a permanent killing field by casting 
this spell in the same location every day for one year. 
Structures built in the area after the killing field is 
permanent don’t end the spell. 
LEGION OF RABID SQUIRRELS
3rd-level conjuration 
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (an acorn or nut)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
While in a forest, you call a legion of rabid squirrels 
from the nearby trees on a point you can see within 
range. The squirrels form into a swarm that uses the 
statistics of a swarm of poisonous snakes, except it has 
a climbing speed of 30 feet rather than a swimming 
speed. The legion of squirrels is friendly to you and 
your companions. Roll initiative for the legion, which 
has its own turns. The legion of squirrels obeys your 
verbal commands (no action required by you). If you 
don’t issue any commands to the legion, it defends itself 
from hostile creatures, but otherwise takes no actions. 
If you command it to move further than 60 feet from 
you, the spell ends and the legion disperses back into 
the forest. A canid, such as a dog, wolf, fox, or worg, has 
disadvantage on attack rolls against targets that are not 
the legion of rabid squirrels while the swarm is within 
60 feet of the canid. When the spell ends, the squirrels 
disperse back into the forest.
The GM has the creature’s statistics.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using 
a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the legion’s poison 
damage increases by 1d6 for each slot level above 3rd.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 47 ---
45
LESSER LEY PROTECTION
5th-level abjuration (forest-bound)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You create a 10-foot cube of antimagic within range 
that specifically protects against ley line magic. Ley 
line spells and magical effects up to level 5 that target a 
creature within the cube have no effect on that target.  
Any active ley line spells or magical effects up to level 
5 on a creature or an object in the cube is suppressed 
while the creature or object is in it. The area of a ley line 
spell or magical effect up to level 5 can’t extend into the 
cube. If the cube overlaps an area of ley line magic, such 
as lesser ley pulse, the part of the area that is covered 
by the cube is suppressed. The cube has no effect on 
other types of magic or spells. You can exclude specific 
individuals within the cube from the protection.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using 
a spell slot of 7th level or higher, its duration is 
concentration, up to 1 hour.
LEY DISTURBANCE
3rd-level divination (forest-bound)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 hour
While in your bound forest, you tune your senses to 
any disturbances of ley energy flowing through it. For 
the duration, you are aware of any ley line manipulation 
or ley spell casting within 5 miles of you. You know 
the approximate distance and general direction to each 
disturbance within that range, but you don’t know its 
exact location. This doesn’t allow you to locate the ley 
lines themselves, just any use or modification of them.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 48 ---
46
LOOPING TRAIL
4th-level transmutation
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a piece of rope twisted into a 
loop)
Duration: 8 hours
You touch a trail no more than 1 mile in length, 
reconfiguring it to give it switchbacks and curves that 
make the trail loop back on itself. For the duration, the 
trail makes subtle changes in its configuration and in 
the surrounding environment to give the impression 
of forward progression along a continuous path. 
A creature on the trail must succeed on a Wisdom 
(Survival) check to notice the trail is leading it in a 
closed loop. 
MAIM
5th-level necromancy
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S 
Duration: Instantaneous
Your hands become black claws bathed in necrotic 
energy. Make a melee spell attack against a creature you 
can reach. On a hit, the target takes 4d6 necrotic damage 
and a section of its body of your choosing withers:
Upper Limb. The target has disadvantage on Strength 
ability checks, and, if it has the Multiattack action, it 
has disadvantage on its first attack roll each round.
Lower Limb. The target’s speed is reduced by 10 feet, 
and it has disadvantage on Dexterity ability checks.
Body. Choose one damage type: bludgeoning, 
piercing, or slashing. The target loses its resistance to 
that damage type. If the target doesn’t have resistance 
to the chosen damage type, it is vulnerable to that 
damage type instead. 
The effect is permanent until removed by remove curse, 
greater restoration, or similar magic.
MARK PREY
2nd-level divination
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
You choose a creature you can see within range as 
your prey. Until the spell ends, you have advantage on 
Wisdom (Perception) and Wisdom (Survival) checks 
to find or track your prey. In addition, the target is 
outlined in light that only you can see. Any attack 
roll you make against your prey has advantage if you 
can see it, and your prey can’t benefit from being 
invisible against you. If the target drops to 0 hit points 
before this spell ends, you can use a bonus action on a 
subsequent turn to mark a new target as your prey.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using 
a spell slot of 4th level, you can maintain your 
concentration on the spell for up to 8 hours. When you 
use a spell slot of 5th level or higher, you can maintain 
your concentration on the spell for up to 24 hours.
MONSTROUS EMPATHY
3rd-level enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a morsel of food)
Duration: 24 hours
This spell lets you forge a connection with a 
monstrosity.  Choose a monstrosity that you can 
see within range. It must see and hear you. If the 
monstrosity’s Intelligence is 4 or higher, the spell fails. 
Otherwise, the monstrosity must succeed on a Wisdom 
saving throw or be charmed by you for the spell’s 
duration. If you or one of your companions harms the 
target, the spell ends.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using 
a spell slot of 4th level or higher, you can affect one 
additional monstrosity for each slot level above 3rd.
MUD PACK
1st-level conjuration (ritual)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a clump of mud)
Duration: 1 hour
This spell covers you or a willing creature you touch in 
mud consistent with the surrounding terrain. For the 
duration, the spell protects the target from extreme cold 
and heat, allowing the target to automatically succeed 
on Constitution saving throws against environmental 
hazards related to temperature. In addition, the target 
has advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks while 
traveling at a slow pace in the terrain related to the 
component for this spell.
If the target is subject to heavy precipitation for 1 
minute, the precipitation removes the mud, ending the 
spell.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 49 ---
47
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a 
spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the duration is 8 hours 
and you can target up to ten willing creatures within 30 
feet of you.
NIP AT THE HEELS
2nd-level illusion
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a dog’s tooth)
Duration: 1 minute
You create an illusory pack of wild dogs that bark and 
nip at a target. Choose one creature that you can see 
within range to make a Wisdom saving throw. If it fails, 
the target has disadvantage on ability checks and attack 
rolls for the duration, as it is distracted by the dogs. 
At the end of each of its turns, the target can make a 
Wisdom saving throw. On a success, the spell ends. A 
target that is at least 10 feet off the ground (in a tree, 
flying, etc.) has advantage on the saving throw, staying 
just out of range of the jumping and barking dogs.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using 
a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, you can target one 
additional creature for each slot level above 2nd. 
PRIMAL INFUSION
5th-level transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a bit of fur from a carnivorous 
animal)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You channel the fury of nature, drawing on its power. 
Until the spell ends, you gain the following benefits: 
•	 You gain 30 temporary hit points. If any of these 
remain when the spell ends, they are lost. 
•	 You have advantage on attack rolls when one of 
your allies is within 5 feet of the target and the ally 
isn’t incapacitated. 
•	 Your weapon attacks deal an extra 1d10 damage of 
the same type dealt by the weapon on a hit.
•	 You gain a +2 bonus to AC.
•	 You have proficiency in Constitution saving 
throws. 
QUICK TIME
4th-level conjuration (forest-bound)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (any seed)
Duration: Instantaneous
Just as the forest sees animals and people moving very 
rapidly compared to its own sense of time, you make 
the target move rapidly in time compared to you.  The 
target increases in age by 1 year. For example, you 
can plant a seed and cast this spell, causing the plant 
to rapidly sprout up from the soil, or you can cast 
this spell on a newly-hatched duckling, causing it to 
become a full-grown duck. If the target is a creature 
with an Intelligence of 3 or higher, it must succeed on 
a Constitution saving throw to resist the aging. It can 
choose to fail the saving throw. 
If the target is a nonmagical weapon, it ages and takes 
a permanent and cumulative –1 penalty to damage rolls. 
If its penalty drops to –5, the weapon is destroyed. If 
the target is nonmagical armor or a shield, it ages and 
takes a permanent and cumulative –1 penalty to the 
AC it offers. Armor reduced to an AC of 10 or a shield 
that drops to a +0 bonus is destroyed. If the object is 
being worn or carried, the creature wearing or carrying 
it must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw to avoid the 
corrosion. 
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a 
spell slot of 5th level or higher, you increase the target’s 
age by one additional year or increase the cumulative 
penalty to a weapon’s damage or an armor’s AC by 1 for 
each slot level above 4th. 
REVIVE BEAST
2nd-level necromancy
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (emeralds worth 100 gp, which 
the spell consumes)
Duration: Instantaneous
You touch a beast that has died within the last minute. 
That beast returns to life with 1 hit points. This spell 
can’t return to life a beast that has died of old age, nor 
can it restore any missing body parts.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 50 ---
48
SCENTLESS
1st-level transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (1 ounce of pure water)
Duration: 1 hour
You touch a willing creature or object that is not being 
worn or carried. For the duration, the target gives off no 
odor. A creature that relies on smell has disadvantage 
on Wisdom (Perception) checks to detect the target 
and Wisdom (Survival) checks to track the target. The 
target is invisible to a creature that relies solely on smell 
to sense its surroundings. This spell has no effect on 
targets with unusually strong scents, such as ghasts.
SHADOW’S BRAND
2nd-level necromancy
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: S
Duration: Until dispelled
You draw a rune or inscription no larger than your 
hand on the target. The target must succeed on a 
Constitution saving throw or be branded with the mark 
on a location of your choosing. The brand appears as 
an unintelligible mark to most creatures. Those who 
understand the Umbral language recognize it as a mark 
indicating the target is an enemy of the shadow fey. 
Shadow fey who view the brand see it outlined in a faint 
glow. The brand can be hidden by mundane means, 
such as clothing, but it can be removed only by the 
remove curse spell. 
While branded, the target has disadvantage on ability 
checks when interacting socially with shadow fey. 
SHADOW TREE
2nd-level conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a willow branch)
Duration: 10 minutes
This spell temporarily draws a willow tree from the 
Shadow Realm to the location you designate within 
range. The tree is 5 feet in diameter and 20 feet tall.
When you cast the spell, you can specify individuals 
who can interact with the tree. All other creatures see 
the tree as a shadow version of itself and can’t grasp 
or climb it, passing through its shadowy substance. A 
creature that can interact with the tree and that has 
Sunlight Sensitivity or Sunlight Hypersensitivity is 
protected from sunlight while within 20 feet of the tree. 
A creature that can interact with the tree can climb into 
its branches, which gives the creature half cover. 
STORM OF WINGS
4th-level conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a drop of honey)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You create a storm of spectral birds, bats, or flying 
insects in a 15-foot-radius sphere on a point you can 
see within range. The storm spreads around corners, 
and its area is lightly obscured. Each creature in the 
storm when it appears and each a creature that starts its 
turn in the storm is affected by the storm.  
As a bonus action on your turn, you can move the 
storm up to 30 feet. As an action on your turn, you can 
change the storm from one type to another, such as 
from a storm of bats to a storm of insects.
Bats. The creature takes 4d6 necrotic damage, and 
its speed is halved while within the storm as the bats 
cling to it and drain its blood.
Birds. The creature takes 4d6 slashing damage, and it 
has disadvantage on attack rolls while within the storm 
as the birds fly in the way of the creature’s attacks.
Insects. The creature takes 4d6 poison damage, and it 
must make a Constitution saving throw each time it 
casts a spell while within the storm. On a failure, the 
creature fails to cast the spell, losing the action but 
not the spell slot. 
TRACER
3rd-level divination
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a drop of bright paint)
Duration: 8 hours
When you cast this spell and as a bonus action on each 
of your turns until the spell ends, you can imbue a piece 
of ammunition you fire from a ranged weapon with a 
tiny, invisible beacon. If a ranged attack roll with an 
imbued piece of ammunition hits a target, the beacon 
is transferred to the target. The weapon that fired the 
ammunition is attuned to the beacon and becomes 
warm to the touch when it points in the direction of 
the target as long as the target is on the same plane of 
existence as you. You can have only one tracer target at 
a time. If you put a tracer on a different target, the effect 
on the previous target ends.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 51 ---
49
A creature must succeed on an Intelligence (Arcana) 
check against your spell save DC to notice the magical 
beacon. 
TREE HEAL
Evocation cantrip
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
You touch a plant and it regains 1d4 hit points. 
Alternatively, you can cure it of one disease or remove 
pests from it. Once you cast this spell on a plant or 
plant creature, you can’t cast it on that target again for 
24 hours. This spell can be used only on plants and 
plant creatures. 
TREE SPEAK
1st-level divination
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 minute
You touch a tree and ask it one question about anything 
that might have happened in its immediate vicinity 
(such as, “Who passed by here?”). You get a mental 
sensation of the response, which takes the duration of 
the spell. Trees do not have a human sense of time, so 
the tree might answer with something that happened 
last night or a hundred years ago. The sensation you 
receive may include sight, hearing, vibration, or smell, 
all from the perspective of the tree. Trees are particularly 
attentive to anything which may harm the forest and 
always report such activities when questioned.
If you cast this spell on a tree that contains a merged 
Circle of Oaks druid or other creature that can merge 
with trees, such as a dryad, you can freely communicate 
with the merged creature for the duration of the spell.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 52 ---
50
These magic items are found throughout the Margreve, 
many of which were crafted and traded by the piney 
people to others in the forest. 
Magic Items 
hung from a pack, belt, or weapon pommel. 
As long as you carry this charm, whenever you are 
targeted by a spell or magical effect that restores your 
hit points, you regain an extra 1 hit point.
BRACELET OF THE FIRE TENDER
Wondrous item, uncommon
This piney bracelet is made of twelve small, roasted 
pinecones lashed together with lengths of dried sinew. 
It smells of pine and woodsmoke. It is uncomfortable to 
wear over bare skin.
While wearing this bracelet, you do not have 
disadvantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely 
on sight when looking in areas lightly obscured by 
nonmagical smoke or fog.
CHARM OF RESTORATION
Wondrous item, common 
This fist-sized ball of tightly-
wound green fronds 
contains the bark of a 
magical piney plant with 
curative properties. A 
natural loop is formed 
from one of the fronds, 
allowing the charm to be 
CIRCLET OF HOLLY
Wondrous item, uncommon (requires attunement)
While wearing this circlet, you gain the following 
benefits: 
Language of the Fey. You speak and understand 
Sylvan.
Friend of the Fey. You have advantage on ability 
checks to interact socially with fey creatures.
Poison Sense. You know if any food or drink you are 
holding contains poison. 
MOON THROUGH THE TREES
Wondrous item, rare (requires attunement)
This piney charm is comprised of six polished river 
stones bound into the shape of a star with glue made 
from the connective tissues of animals. The reflective 
surfaces of the stones shimmer with a magical 
iridescence.
While you are within 20 feet of a living tree, you can 
use a bonus action to become invisible for 1 minute. 
While invisible, you can use a bonus action to become 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 53 ---
51
visible. If you do, 
each creature of 
your choice within 
30 feet of you must 
succeed on a DC 
15 Constitution 
saving throw or 
be blinded for 
1 minute. A blinded 
creature can repeat this 
saving throw at the end of 
each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. 
If a creature’s saving throw is successful or the effect 
ends for it, the creature is immune to this charm’s 
blinding feature for the next 24 hours.
ROWAN STAFF
Staff, very rare (requires attunement by a cleric, druid, 
sorcerer, warlock, or wizard)
Favored by those with ties to nature and death, this 
staff can be wielded as 
a magic quarterstaff 
that grants a +1 
bonus to attack 
and damage rolls 
made with it. While 
holding it, you have 
an advantage on saving 
throws against spells.
The staff has 10 charges 
for the following properties. 
It regains 1d4 + 1 expended 
charges daily at midnight, though it 
regains all its charges if it is bathed in 
moonlight at midnight. If you expend 
the last charge, roll a d20. On a 1, the 
staff loses its properties and becomes 
a nonmagical quarterstaff.
Spell. While holding this staff, you 
can use an action to expend 1 or 
more of its charges to cast animate 
dead, using your spell save DC and 
spellcasting ability. The target bones 
or corpse can be a Medium or smaller 
humanoid or beast. Each charge 
animates a separate target. These 
undead creatures are under your control 
for 24 hours. You can use an action to 
expend 1 charge each day to reassert your 
control of up to four undead creatures 
created by this staff for another 24 hours.
Deanimate. You can use an action to strike an undead 
creature with the staff in combat. If the attack hits, 
the target must succeed on a DC 17 Constitution 
saving throw or revert to an inanimate pile of bones or 
corpse in its space. If the undead has the Incorporeal 
Movement trait, it is destroyed instead. Deanimating an 
undead creature expends a number of charges equal to 
twice the challenge rating of the creature (minimum of 
1). If the staff doesn’t have enough charges to deanimate 
the target, the staff doesn’t deanimate the target. 
SICKLE OF THORNS
Weapon (sickle), uncommon  
(requires attunement)
You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage 
rolls made with this weapon. As an action, you 
can swing the sickle to cut nonmagical vegetation up 
to 60 feet away from you. Each cut is a separate action 
with one action equaling one swing of your arm. Thus, 
you can lead a party through a jungle or briar thicket 
at a normal pace, simply swinging the sickle back and 
forth ahead of you to clear the path. It can’t be used to 
cut trunks of saplings larger than 1 inch in diameter. It 
also can’t cut through unliving wood (such as a door 
or wall). When you hit a plant creature with a melee 
attack with this weapon, that target takes an extra 1d6 
slashing damage. 
This weapon can make very precise cuts, such as to 
cut fruit or flowers high up in a tree without damaging 
the tree.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 54 ---
52
WARD AGAINST WILD APPETITES
Wondrous item, uncommon (requires attunement by a 
druid or ranger)
Seventeen animal teeth of various sizes hang together 
on a simple leather thong, and each tooth is dyed a 
different color using pigments from plants native to 
piney villages.
When a beast or monstrosity with an Intelligence of 4 
or lower targets you with an attack, it has disadvantage 
on the attack roll if the attack is a bite. You must be 
wearing the necklace to gain this benefit. 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 55 ---
53
The deep woods teem with natural life, many of which 
are hardier and better adapted to survive in a place 
as dangerous as the Margreve. The following beasts 
Miscellaneous Beasts
Alligator
Medium beast, unaligned
Armor Class 13 (natural armor)
Hit Points 11 (2d8 + 2)
Speed 20 ft., swim 30 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
15 (+2)	 10 (+0)	
13 (+1)	
2 (–4)	
10 (+0)	
5 (–3)
Saving Throws Str +4, Con +3
Skills Stealth +2
Senses passive Perception 10
Languages —
Challenge 1/4 (50 XP)
Hold Breath. The alligator can hold its breath for 15 
minutes. 
ACTIONS
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) piercing damage, and the target 
is grappled (escape DC 12). Until this grapple ends, the 
target is restrained, and the alligator can’t bite another 
target. 
Alligator Turtle
Medium beast, unaligned
Armor Class 15 (natural armor)
Hit Points 11 (2d8 + 2)
Speed 20 ft., swim 30 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
15 (+2)	 12 (+1)	
13 (+1)	
2 (–4)	
12 (+1)	
7 (–2)
Saving Throws Str +4, Con +3
Skills Stealth +3
Senses passive Perception 11
Languages —
Challenge 1/4 (50 XP)
Hold Breath. The turtle can hold its breath for 1 hour.
ACTIONS
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 10 ft., one 
target. Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) slashing damage and the target 
is grappled (escape DC 12). Until this grapple ends, the 
turtle can’t bite another target.
Alligator turtles are ornery reptiles, noted for their 
combative disposition while on land. Their necks are 
deceptively long and flexible, allowing them to strike a 
startlingly far distance with their beak-like jaws.
make up many of the animals adventurers are likely to 
encounter in a forest, and each is an appropriate choice 
for a ranger’s beast companion or druid’s Wild Shape.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 56 ---
54
Forest Falcon
Medium beast, unaligned
Armor Class 13 
Hit Points 13 (3d6 + 3)
Speed 20 ft., fly 60 ft. 
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
6 (–2)	
16 (+3)	
12 (+1)	
3 (–4)	
14 (+2)	
5 (–3)
Saving Throws Dex +5, Wis +4
Skills Perception +4
Senses passive Perception 14
Languages —
Challenge 1/4 (50 XP)
Falcon Dive. If the falcon is flying and dives at least 20 
feet straight toward a target, it has advantage on the 
next attack roll it makes against that target before the 
end of its turn. If the attack hits, it deals an extra 2 (1d4) 
damage to the target. 
Keen Sight. The falcon has advantage on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks that rely on sight. 
ACTIONS
Beak. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 8 (2d4 + 3) piercing damage.
A forest falcon is a large, swift raptor adapted to agile 
flight through dense canopy rather than bursts of 
speed in open air. It prefers a high perch, watching for 
movement from prey on the forest floor. The falcon 
strikes in a diving ambush and can even run down prey 
on foot. 
Giant Honey Bee
Small beast, unaligned
Armor Class 12 
Hit Points 9 (2d6 + 2)
Speed 10 ft., fly 40 ft. 
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
8 (–1)	
15 (+2)	
12 (+1)	
6 (–2)	
12 (+1)	
8 (–1)
Saving Throws Str +1, Dex +4
Skills Survival +3
Senses blindsight 30 ft., passive Perception 11
Languages Bee Dance
Challenge 1/4 (50 XP)
ACTIONS
Sting. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
creature. Hit: 4 (1d4 + 2) piercing damage and the 
target must make a DC 11 Constitution saving throw, 
taking 10 (3d6) poison damage on a failed save, or half 
as much damage on a successful one. If the poison 
damage reduces the target to 0 hp, the target is stable 
but poisoned for 1 hour, even after regaining hp, and is 
paralyzed while poisoned in this way. 
Giant honey bees congregate in great swarms and fill 
hollows in rocky hillsides with their massive wax and 
honey hives. Far more intelligent than their diminutive 
cousins, giant honey bees sometimes enter into 
relationships with bearfolk or other creatures who can 
help protect the hive in exchange for a small share of 
the bees’ honey. Unlike a normal honey bee, a giant 
honey bee who stings a creature doesn’t lose its stinger. 
Giant honey bees are rarely idle, often moving in 
elaborate, waggling dances of spirals and loops. This 
“dance” is actually a complex language the bees use to 
BEE DANCE LANGUAGE
A character who has established peaceful contact 
with giant honey bees can learn Bee Dance as a 
language as outlined in the downtime rules. 
While any character who learns it can understand 
Bee Dance, a creature other than a giant honey 
bee can only convey basic concepts. A character 
who assumes the shape of a giant honey bee can 
communicate fully using the language. .
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 57 ---
55
share staggeringly accurate directions and information 
about nearby threats and food sources with the rest of 
their hive. 
Giant Bombardier Beetle
Medium beast, unaligned
Armor Class 14 (natural armor)
Hit Points 13 (2d8 + 4)
Speed 30 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
10 (+0)	 14 (+2)	
15 (+2)	
3 (–4)	
10 (+0)	 3 (–4)
Saving Throws Con +4
Damage Resistances fire
Senses blindsight 30 ft., passive Perception 10
Languages —
Challenge 1/4 (50 XP)
ACTIONS
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) slashing damage.
Spray. Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, range 15/30 ft., 
one target. Hit: 7 (2d4 + 2) fire damage.
The giant bombardier beetle is among the most 
surprising creatures lurking on the forest floor. A placid 
herbivore content to go about its business, the beetle 
has a powerful defense mechanism in the form of a 
boiling liquid it can spray to scald would-be predators 
as it makes its escape. 
Giant Leech
Small beast, unaligned
Armor Class 13
Hit Points 7 (2d6)
Speed 15 ft., swim 30 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
6 (–2)	
16 (+3)	
10 (+0)	
1 (–5)	
10 (+0)	
2 (–4)
Saving Throws Dex + 5, Con +2
Skills Stealth +5
Senses tremorsense 30 ft., passive Perception 10
Languages —
Challenge 1/4 (50 XP)
Amphibious. The leech can breathe air and water. 
ACTIONS
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 5 (1d4 + 3) piercing damage, and the leech 
attaches to the target. While attached, the leech doesn’t 
attack. Instead, at the start of each of the leech’s turns, 
the target loses 5 (1d4 + 3) hp due to blood loss.  
   The leech can detach itself by spending 5 feet of its 
movement. It does so after it drains 15 hp of blood 
from the target or the target dies. A creature, including 
the target, can use its action to detach the leech.
Giant leeches lurk in placid ponds, babbling creeks, and 
mighty rivers. They slink through the dark forest waters 
with their distinctive vertical undulation, following 
any movement they sense toward fresh blood. Some 
varieties have adapted to life in the oceans, and a rare 
few dwell on land, though land-dwelling leeches prefer 
humid, moist climates.
Giant Mongoose
Medium beast, unaligned
Armor Class 13 
Hit Points 13 (2d8 + 4)
Speed 30 ft. 
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
10 (+0)	 16 (+3)	
14 (+2)	
3 (–4)	
14 (+2)	
7 (–2)
Saving Throws Con +4, Wis +4
Skills Athletics +2, Stealth +5
Damage Resistances poison
Condition Immunities poisoned
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 10
Languages —
Challenge 1/4 (50 XP)
Keen Hearing and Smell. The mongoose has advantage 
on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on hearing or 
smell.
ACTIONS
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) piercing damage.
REACTIONS
Defensive Roll. The mongoose adds its Athletics bonus 
to its AC against one attack that would hit it. To do so, 
the mongoose must see the attacker.
The giant mongoose slinks through the woods, 
searching out rodents and other small animals to prey 
upon. Like their smaller cousins, giant mongooses are 
notoriously resistant to venoms, and their distinctive 
“dance” in battle helps them avoid deadly strikes. 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 58 ---
56
Great Grey Owl
Small beast, unaligned
Armor Class 13 
Hit Points 10 (3d6)
Speed 5 ft., fly 60 ft. 
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
5 (–3)	
16 (+3)	
11 (+0)	
3 (–4)	
14 (+2)	
7 (–2)
Saving Throws Dex +5, Wis +4
Skills Perception +4, Stealth +5
Senses darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 14
Languages —
Challenge 1/4 (50 XP)
Flyby. The owl doesn’t provoke opportunity attacks 
when it flies out of an enemy’s reach. 
Keen Hearing and Sight. The owl has advantage on 
Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on hearing or 
sight.
ACTIONS
Talons. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) piercing damage.
Great grey owls are stealthy predators, and the largest of 
the non-giant varieties of owls. Unlike other owls, great 
greys aren’t territorial—with the exception of females 
raising young—and don’t flush or spook when other 
creatures approach. Rather, they remain still on their 
low perches, often going overlooked. 
Grove Bear
Medium beast, unaligned
Armor Class 13 (natural armor)
Hit Points 13 (2d8 + 4)
Speed 40 ft., climb 30 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
16 (+3)	 12 (+1)	
14 (+2)	
3 (–4)	
12 (+1)	 7 (–2)
Saving Throws Str +5, Con +4
Skills Perception +3
Senses passive Perception 13
Languages —
Challenge 1/4 (50 XP)
Grappler. The bear has advantage on attack rolls against 
any creature grappled by it.
Keen Smell. The bear has advantage on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks that rely on smell.
ACTIONS
Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 8 (2d4 + 3) slashing damage and the target 
is grappled (escape DC 13). Until this grapple ends, the 
bear can’t use its claws on another target.
Grove bears resemble black bears with blond snouts, 
but they are slightly smaller and noticeably quicker. 
When grove bears clash to defend territory or compete 
for mates, they engage in brutal wrestling matches, 
each attempting to pin the other until one bear loses its 
nerve and flees.
Howler Baboon
Medium beast, unaligned
Armor Class 12
Hit Points 13 (2d8 + 4)
Speed 30 ft., climb 30 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
15 (+2)	 14 (+2)	
14 (+2)	
6 (–2)	
12 (+1)	
7 (–2)
Saving Throws Str +4, Wis +3
Skills Athletics +4, Perception +3
Senses passive Perception 13
Languages —
Challenge 1/4 (50 XP)
Pack Tactics. The baboon has advantage on attack 
rolls against a creature if at least one of the baboon’s 
allies is within 5 feet of the creature and the ally isn’t 
incapacitated.
ACTIONS
Fist. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) bludgeoning damage.
Rock. Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 20/60 ft., 
one target. Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) bludgeoning damage.
Howler baboons are territorial primates that claim 
stretches of forest and hills in large troops. Their 
presence is usually heard before it’s seen, thanks to the 
whooping calls they use to communicate danger and 
call for their troop mates. When angered, they attack in 
ferocious packs, hurling rocks and pummeling threats 
en masse.  
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 59 ---
57
Margreve Hound
Medium beast, unaligned
Armor Class 11
Hit Points 11 (2d8 + 2)
Speed 40 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
15 (+2)	 13 (+1)	
12 (+1)	
3 (–4)	
12 (+1)	
7 (–2)
Saving Throws Str +4, Dex +3
Skills Athletics +4, Perception +3
Senses passive Perception 13
Languages —
Challenge 1/4 (50 XP)
Keen Hearing and Smell. The hound has advantage 
on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on hearing or 
smell. 
ACTIONS
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) piercing damage, and the target 
is grappled (escape DC 12). Until this grapple ends, the 
hound can’t bite another target.
Margreve hounds are muscular, loyal beasts. They assist 
their masters in hunting by retrieving downed game 
or by immobilizing more nimble animals, preventing 
escape. Margreve hounds trained for war or as guards 
employ the same tactic to neutralize threats. Caravans 
that often run routes through and along the Margreve 
prize Margreve hounds as part of their guard forces and 
pay handsomely for trained specimens.
Margreve Stag
Medium beast, unaligned
Armor Class 12
Hit Points 11 (2d8 + 2)
Speed 50 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
15 (+2)	 14 (+2)	
12 (+1)	
2 (–4)	
10 (+0)	
6 (–2)
Saving Throws Str +4, Dex +4
Skills Athletics +4
Senses passive Perception 10
Languages —
Challenge 1/4 (50 XP)
Charge. If the stag moves at least 20 feet straight toward 
a target and then hits it with a ram attack on the same 
turn, the target takes an extra 7 (2d6) damage. If the 
target is a creature it must succeed on a DC 12 Strength 
saving throw or be knocked prone. 
Standing Leap. The stag’s long jump is up to 20 feet and 
its high jump is 10 feet, with or without a running start. 
ACTIONS
Ram. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) piercing damage. 
Hooves. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 7 (2d4 + 2) bludgeoning damage. 
Strossen Bat
Small beast, unaligned
Armor Class 13
Hit Points 7 (2d6)
Speed 5 ft., fly 40 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
6 (–2)	
16 (+3)	
10 (+0)	
1 (–5)	
10 (+0)	
2 (–4)
Saving Throws Dex + 5, Con +2
Skills Perception +2, Stealth +5
Senses blindsight 60 ft., passive Perception 12
Languages —
Challenge 1/4 (50 XP)
Echolocation. The bat can’t use its blindsight while 
deafened. 
Keen Hearing. The bat has advantage on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks that rely on hearing. 
ACTIONS
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 5 (1d4 + 3) piercing damage, and the bat 
attaches to its target. While attached, the bat doesn’t 
attack. Instead, at the start of each of the bat’s turns, 
the target loses 5 (1d4 + 3) hp due to blood loss.  
   The bat can detach itself by spending 5 feet of its 
movement. It does so after it drains 15 hp of blood 
from the target or the target dies. A creature, including 
the target, can use its action to detach the bat.
Strossen bats are an aggressive breed of vampire 
bat that was first discovered in the vicinity of Castle 
Shadowcrag. They have since spread throughout 
the Margreve forest and beyond. Strossen bats can 
be identified by their midnight black fur with its 
distinctive white streak across the bats’ eyes. 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 60 ---
Kobold Press logo is a trademark of Open Design. 
By ethereal messengers and stealthy couriers, Kobold Press brings you WARLOCK: a black and white 
print booklet full of new material for your 5th Edition game. Focusing on the world of Midgard—but 
useable in any 5e campaign—WARLOCK offers new monsters, mini-adventures, magic items, and 
more! Plus, every once in a while we’ll throw in a sticker, patch, or other special surprise…
Dark Fantasy for 5th Edition
www.patreon.com/koboldpress
Become a patron today, and discover the dark magic of WARLOCK!
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 61 ---
Pawn stands not included.
BRING THE FOREST TO LIFE!
Kobold Press logo is a trademark of Open Design. 
188 screeching, creaking, flittering, roaring monsters from the 
darkest depths of the forest! These full-color pawns for your 
5th Edition game feature dangerous new creatures from Tales 
of the Old Margreve, from Small to Huge—including raging 
werewolves, storm boars, vampire spawn, and more!
Order yours today at KoboldPress.com/kpstore
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 62 ---
OPEN GAME LICENSE Version 1.0a 
The following text is the property of Wizards of the Coast, Inc. and 
is Copyright 2000 Wizards of the Coast, Inc (“Wizards”). All Rights 
Reserved. 
1. Definitions: (a)”Contributors” means the copyright and/or 
trademark owners who have contributed Open Game Content; 
(b)”Derivative Material” means copyrighted material including 
derivative works and translations (including into other computer 
languages), potation, modification, correction, addition, extension, 
upgrade, improvement, compilation, abridgment or other form in 
which an existing work may be recast, transformed or adapted; (c) 
“Distribute” means to reproduce, license, rent, lease, sell, broadcast, 
publicly display, transmit or otherwise distribute; (d)”Open Game 
Content” means the game mechanic and includes the methods, 
procedures, processes and routines to the extent such content does 
not embody the Product Identity and is an enhancement over the 
prior art and any additional content clearly identified as Open Game 
Content by the Contributor, and means any work covered by this 
License, including translations and derivative works under copyright 
law, but specifically excludes Product Identity. (e) “Product Identity” 
means product and product line names, logos and identifying 
marks including trade dress; artifacts; creatures characters; stories, 
storylines, plots, thematic elements, dialogue, incidents, language, 
artwork, symbols, designs, depictions, likenesses, formats, poses, 
concepts, themes and graphic, photographic and other visual or 
audio representations; names and descriptions of characters, spells, 
enchantments, personalities, teams, personas, likenesses and special 
abilities; places, locations, environments, creatures, equipment, 
magical or supernatural abilities or effects, logos, symbols, or 
graphic designs; and any other trademark or registered trademark 
clearly identified as Product identity by the owner of the Product 
Identity, and which specifically excludes the Open Game Content; 
(f) “Trademark” means the logos, names, mark, sign, motto, designs 
that are used by a Contributor to identify itself or its products or the 
associated products contributed to the Open Game License by the 
Contributor (g) “Use”, “Used” or “Using” means to use, Distribute, 
copy, edit, format, modify, translate and otherwise create Derivative 
Material of Open Game Content. (h) “You” or “Your” means the 
licensee in terms of this agreement.
2. The License: This License applies to any Open Game Content 
that contains a notice indicating that the Open Game Content may 
only be Used under and in terms of this License. You must affix such 
a notice to any Open Game Content that you Use. No terms may be 
added to or subtracted from this License except as described by the 
License itself. No other terms or conditions may be applied to any 
Open Game Content distributed using this License. 
3. Offer and Acceptance: By Using the Open Game Content You 
indicate Your acceptance of the terms of this License. 
4. Grant and Consideration: In consideration for agreeing to 
use this License, the Contributors grant You a perpetual, worldwide, 
royalty-free, nonexclusive license with the exact terms of this License 
to Use, the Open Game Content. 
5. Representation of Authority to Contribute: If You are 
contributing original material as Open Game Content, You represent 
that Your Contributions are Your original creation and/or You have 
sufficient rights to grant the rights conveyed by this License. 
6. Notice of License Copyright: You must update the 
COPYRIGHT NOTICE portion of this License to include the exact 
text of the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any Open Game Content You are 
copying, modifying or distributing, and You must add the title, the 
copyright date, and the copyright holder’s name to the COPYRIGHT 
NOTICE of any original Open Game Content you Distribute. 
7. Use of Product Identity: You agree not to Use any Product 
Identity, including as an indication as to compatibility, except as 
expressly licensed in another, independent Agreement with the 
owner of each element of that Product Identity. You agree not to 
indicate compatibility or co-adaptability with any Trademark or 
Registered Trademark in conjunction with a work containing Open 
Game Content except as expressly licensed in another, independent 
Agreement with the owner of such Trademark or Registered 
Trademark. The use of any Product Identity in Open Game Content 
does not constitute a challenge to the ownership of that Product 
Identity. The owner of any Product Identity used in Open Game 
Content shall retain all rights, title and interest in and to that 
Product Identity.
8. Identification: If you distribute Open Game Content You must 
clearly indicate which portions of the work that you are distributing 
are Open Game Content. 
9. Updating the License: Wizards or its designated Agents 
may publish updated versions of this License. You may use any 
authorized version of this License to copy, modify and distribute 
any Open Game Content originally distributed under any version of 
this License. 
10. Copy of this License: You MUST include a copy of this 
License with every copy of the Open Game Content You Distribute. 
11. Use of Contributor Credits: You may not market or advertise 
the Open Game Content using the name of any Contributor unless 
You have written permission from the Contributor to do so. 
12. Inability to Comply: If it is impossible for You to comply with 
any of the terms of this License with respect to some or all of the 
Open Game Content due to statute, judicial order, or governmental 
regulation then You may not Use any Open Game Material so 
affected. 
13. Termination: This License will terminate automatically if You 
fail to comply with all terms herein and fail to cure such breach 
within 30 days of becoming aware of the breach. All sublicenses 
shall survive the termination of this License. 
14. Reformation: If any provision of this License is held to be 
unenforceable, such provision shall be reformed only to the extent 
necessary to make it enforceable. 
15. COPYRIGHT NOTICE 
Open Game License v 1.0a Copyright 2000, Wizards of the 
Coast, Inc. System Reference Document 5.0 Copyright 2016, Wizards 
of the Coast, Inc.; Authors Mike Mearls, Jeremy Crawford, Chris 
Perkins, Rodney Thompson, Peter Lee, James Wyatt, Robert J. 
Schwalb, Bruce R. Cordell, Chris Sims, and Steve Townshend, based 
on original material by E. Gary Gygax and Dave Arneson.
Beyond Damage Dice. © 2016 Open Design; Author: James J. 
Haeck.
Deep Magic: Angelic Seals and Wards © 2016 Open Design; 
Author: Dan Dillon.
Deep Magic: Battle Magic © 2016 Open Design; Author: Greg 
Marks.
Deep Magic: Chaos Magic © 2016 Open Design; Author: Greg 
Marks.
Deep Magic: Clockwork © 2016 Open Design; Author: Scott 
Carter.
Deep Magic: Dragon Magic © 2017 Open Design; Author: Shawn 
Merwin.
Deep Magic: Elemental Magic © 2017 Open Design; Author: Dan 
Dillon.
Deep Magic: Elven High Magic © 2016 Open Design; Author: Greg 
Marks.
Deep Magic: Illumination Magic © 2016 Open Design; Author: 
Greg Marks..
Deep Magic: Ley Line Magic © 2016 Open Design; Author: Dan 
Dillon.
Deep Magic: Ring Magic © 2016 Open Design; Author: Dan Dillon.
Deep Magic: Runes © 2016 Open Design; Author: Chris Harris.
Deep Magic: Shadow Magic © 2016 Open Design; Author: 
Michael Ohl.
Midgard Heroes © 2015 Open Design; Author: Dan Dillon.
Southlands Heroes © 2015 Open Design; Author: Rich Howard.
Midgard Heroes Handbook © 2018 Open Design LLC; Authors: 
Chris Harris, Dan Dillon, Greg Marks, Jon Sawatsky, Michael Ohl, 
Richard Green, Rich Howard, Scott Carter, and Shawn Merwin.
Tome of Beasts. © 2016 Open Design; Authors Chris Harris, Dan 
Dillon, Rodrigo Garcia Carmona, and Wolfgang Baur.
Margreve Player’s Guide © 2019 Open Design LLC; Authors: Dan 
Dillon, Dennis Sustare, Jon Sawatsky, Lou Anders, Matthew Corley, 
and Mike Welham.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 63 ---
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 64 ---
The Forest Calls— 
  and Heroes Shall Answer!
The Old Margreve Forest is an ancient wood, already old when most of 
the gods were young. Kingdoms rise and fall beyond its borders, but 
the Margreve remains a world apart—a place where memories and 
old magic linger in the rings of trees. It has plenty of secrets and 
treasures to tempt adventurers; but those who fail to honor the 
Old Ways do not return…
The Margreve Player’s Guide for 5th Edition gives you 
everything you need to journey into the deep, dark woods 
and come out again alive—or achieve a hero’s death worthy 
of story and song! Here you’ll find:
•	 Three new playable races from the deep woods: Alseid, Erina,  
and Piney
•	 New barbarian primal paths for bearfolk characters: Hive Tender  
and Shadow Chewer
•	 Forest-themed class options for clerics, druids, rangers, rogues,  
warlocks, and wizards
•	 13 new companion beasts
•	 6 new feats, and a new Forest Dweller background with a feral variant 
•	 45 new spells, including shadow tree, legion of rabid squirrels, mark prey, 
and revive beast 
•	 New magic items, including bracelet of the fire tender, circlet of holly, and 
sickle of thorns
The gods speed you on your quest, heroes. Stay to the path! Beware the 
human‑sounding whispers from the shadows! And never, ever light a  
torch after midnight…
MSRP $19.99
ISBN 978-0-9843159-2-5
PO Box 2811  |  Kirkland WA 98083
www.koboldpress.com
James Larsen (Order #51905805)