--- PAGE 1 ---
Battle the rising Shadow in this 30 year campaign
for the world’s greatest fantasy setting.
TM
TM

--- PAGE 2 ---
Concept by Francesco Nepitello
Written by Gareth Ryder-Hanrahan
Additional Writing by Francesco Nepitello and Jacob Rodgers
Edited by Andrew Kenrick
Converted by Jacob Rodgers
Cover by Ralph Horsley
Art by Jon Hodgson, Jason Juta, Jordy Lakiere and Sam Manley
Graphic Design and layout by Paul Bourne
Creative Direction by Jon Hodgson and Dominic McDowall 
Proofread by Jacob Rodgers and David Rea
 
Adventures in Middle-earth designed by: James Brown, Paul Butler, Walt Ciechanowski, Steve Emmott, 
Gareth Ryder-Hanrahan, Jon Hodgson, Shane Ivey, Andrew Kenrick, TS Luikart, Dominic McDowall, 
Francesco Nepitello, James Spahn, Ken Spencer
Based on The One Ring Roleplaying Game by Francesco Nepitello and Marco Maggi
© Sophisticated Games Ltd 2017     © Cubicle 7 Entertainment Ltd 2017 
To find out more about Adventures in Middle-earth, and 
to subscribe to our newsletter, please go to: www.cubicle7.co.uk
Product Identity: The following items are hereby identified as Product Identity, as defined in the Open Game License version 1.0a, Section 1(e), and are not Open Content:
All trademarks, registered trade-marks, proper names (characters, place names, etc.), new rules, classes, items, virtues, backgrounds, places, characters, artwork, 
sidebars, and trade dress. Open Game Content: The Open content in this book includes material taken from the Systems Reference Document. No other portion of this 
work may be reproduced in any form without permission.
Published by Sophisticated Games Ltd, 3 Andersen Court, Newnham Road, Cambridge CB3 9EZ, UK and 
Cubicle 7 Entertainment Ltd,  Suite D3, Unit 4, Gemini House, Hargreaves Road, Groundwell Industrial Estate, 
Swindon, SN25 5AZ, UK
 
 
The One Ring, Middle-earth, The Hobbit, The Lord of the Rings, and the characters, items, events and places therein are trademarks or registered trademarks of The 
Saul Zaentz Company d/b/a Middle-earth Enterprises and are used under license by Sophisticated Games Ltd and their respective licensees. All rights reserved. No 
part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording 
or otherwise, without the prior permission of the publishers. 
- credits -
2

--- PAGE 3 ---
The Mirkwood Campaign	
4
The Campaign Outline	
4
The Campaign Goal	
6
Experience Awards	
8
Rules for Holdings	
9
The Last Good Years:
2947-2950	
11
Year 2947	
11
	
The Wizard’s Man	
11
Year 2948	
13
	
The Folk-moot at Rhosgobel	
14
Year 2949	
17
	
The Questing Beasts	
17
Year 2950	
20
	
Secrets Buried	
20
The Return of the Shadow:
2951-2960	
25
Year 2951	
25
	
The Helm of Peace	
25
Year 2952	
28
	
The Staff of the Roadwarden	
28
Year 2953	
31
	
The Beast of the Forest	
32
Year 2954	
35
	
The Lost Path	
36
Year 2955	
39
	
Treacherous Waters	
39
Year 2956	
42
	
Murder in Lake-town	
42
Year 2957	
48
	
The Siege of Black Tarn Hall	
48
Year 2958	
53
	
Saving the Maiden	
53
Year 2959	
61
	
The Horse-lord’s Daughter	
62
Year 2960	
64
	
The Death of Ingomer	
64
The Gathering Gloom:
2961-2966	
67
Year 2961	
67
	
Paying the Troll	
67
Year 2962	
72
	
Honour Among Thieves	
72
Year 2963	
74
	
The Anger of the Elvenking	
74
Year 2964	
76
	
The Greydelve	
77
Year 2965	
78
	
The Theft of the Lamp	
78
Year 2966	
83
	
Return to Dol Guldur	
83
The Year of the Plague:
2967-2974	
87
Year 2967	
87
	
Treachery in the Woods	
87
Year 2968	
91
	
Nine in the Hall	
91
Year 2969	
96
	
Wheels within Wheels	
97
Year 2970	
100
	
New Background: Changeling	
101
	
Slaying the Forest Dragon	
103
Year 2971	
104
	
The Dying of the Light	
104
Year 2972	
107
	
The Hame of the Vampire	
107
Year 2973	
111
	
The Reach of the Shadow	
111
Year 2974	
115
	
Beorn’s Quest	
115
The Darkening of Mirkwood:
2975-2977	
119
Year 2975	
119
	
The Last Folk-Moot	
119
Year 2976	
121
	
The March of the Woodmen	
121
	
To Rivendell	
124
Year 2977	
126
	
Epilogue: The Passing of the King	
126
The Nazgûl of Dol Guldur	
127
Dark Undead or Unclad and Invisible	
127
The Lieutenant of Dol Guldur	
128
The Ghost of the Forest	
130
The Messenger of Mordor	
130
Shadows in the Forest	
133
Index	
140
- contents -
3

--- PAGE 4 ---
Mirkwood Campaign
4
- the Mirkwood -
Campaign
Under the boughs of Mirkwood there was deadly 
strife of Elves and Men and fell beasts.
In the year 2951, Sauron sent the Ringwraiths to reclaim 
his dark hold of Dol Guldur in yet another chapter in 
the struggle between darkness and light for control of 
Mirkwood. 
In the following decades, Sauron succeeded in making 
Dol Guldur the starting point for large-scale attacks 
against Lórien and the Woodland Realm. Even though 
the Free Peoples were ultimately victorious, many lost 
their lives and Wilderland at large suffered greatly.
The Mirkwood Campaign places the heroes in the middle 
of that coming war, alongside those who fight the shadow 
that threatens to engulf the forest and subjugate all those 
who live near and inside it. 
Can the heroes change what has been written? Will 
they succeed in weakening the power in Dol Guldur and 
protecting the folks that live in the forest? Or will they fail 
and worsen their fate?
Loremasters should note that the Rhovanion Region Guide 
is necessary to provide many of the non-player characters 
and adversaries faced in the Campaign.
The Campaign Outline
The campaign is divided into five major sections, each 
spanning several years as the battle between the Free 
Peoples and the Shadow takes new forms. The first section 
is The Last Good Years — a brief respite before The Return 
of the Shadow. The Gathering Gloom brings The Years of 
the Plague and then the assault of the Enemy begins in 
earnest in The Darkening of Mirkwood. Two additional 
rules sections are provided — the Loremaster will learn the 
deadly secrets of The Nazgûl of Dol Guldur and the player-
heros may be visited by Shadows in the Forest.
All told, the Campaign spans between 2947 (the first hints 
of the returning shadow) to 2977 (the death of King Bard). 
For each year, the following format is used:
Events
Here are listed a number of noteworthy things that happen 
in Mirkwood and the lands immediately surrounding it. 
Sometimes, events that occur far from the forest, either on 
the edge of the Wild or in civilised lands to the South, are 
also featured. The companions may or may not hear tell of 
such things, depending on circumstances.

--- PAGE 5 ---
5
The Mirkwood Campaign
You, as Loremaster, can use the information contained 
in this section in any way you see fit, as plot hooks to be 
developed in additional adventures, to add depth and 
perspective to the deeds of the Player-heroes during an 
Adventuring phase or to keep the Company up to date 
with the passing news of major events affecting the land 
during a Fellowship phase.
Adventuring Phase
This section typically contains one sample adventure for 
the company to embark upon. A measure of customisation 
is required, especially as the actual play campaign 
progresses and the actions of the Player-heroes affect and 
alter the history of Wilderland. 
Loremasters are strongly encouraged to modify the plot 
elements or change the location of a sample adventure, or 
even to substitute key characters to adapt the adventures 
to their playing groups. The aim of this section is to 
provide a strong foundation to build upon, not to impose 
a rigid plot on your game (see also Using the Campaign 
and Personal Stakes below).
News from Afar
Outside of the Shire, there is no postal service in Middle-earth, and certainly no newspapers. And while it seems that 
Elves can spread or gather information "as quick as water flows, or quicker", they rarely share what they know 
with other folks. More often than not, tidings go far and wide only through the gossip of wandering merchants and 
in the close-mouthed grumblings of travelling Dwarves, and may even become difficult to separate from wild tales 
and distorted rumours.
Without the intervention of envoys or messengers, it might take one full year, sometimes more, for characters in 
Wilderland to learn of events happening elsewhere in the region, and from 2 to 5 years for news from outside 
Wilderland to reach them, and at least 3 to 8 years for news out of the South, East or West. Characters proficient 
with Lore may be able to get news faster, or have access to better sources. Furthermore, many powerful individuals 
either have their own networks of informants and messengers, or else have some way of getting information quickly. 
Radagast, for example, has his flocks of birds; Beorn has his animals and can travel swiftly by night – but even a 
Wizard must go in search of rumours and news. In Middle-earth, miles are miles, and someone has to cross them to 
bring word from afar.

--- PAGE 6 ---
Mirkwood Campaign
6
Year’s End
You may have one or more Fellowship phases each year, 
depending on how you structure your Campaign. In this 
section, you will find entries for undertakings, along with 
hints at adventures that can follow up on the events of the 
provided Adventuring phase. Some of the later years may 
not offer a specific entry, as it becomes more and more 
difficult to foresee what the companions might do in their 
spare time.
Loremasters should remember that the last Fellowship 
phase of a given year is an excellent time to relate the 
occurrences of previous Events section, so that players feel 
the history of Middle-earth unfold before them.
The Campaign Goal
Should the Mirkwood Campaign become the story told 
in The Lord of the Rings and its appendices, it will be the 
telling of a long defeat for the Free People of the North. The 
Shadow returns to the forest, and Dol Guldur is restored. 
By the time of the War of the Ring, Mirkwood is again a 
place of horror. The Woodmen are barely mentioned and 
may be scattered or destroyed, Beorn is dead, Radagast 
gone and the Woodland Realm is isolated.
Even heroes can hardly avert this fate — all the odds are 
against them. But there is something they can certainly 
do: they can fight to hold back the darkness for another 
day, another month, maybe another year. Their plight 
may be considered desperate, even hopeless, but they will 
at least save something from the inevitable doom.
For these reasons, the emphasis of the Mirkwood 
Campaign should be on personal tragedy. The forest 
may be lost, but can the heroes save their own families 
and friends from slavery and death? Can they preserve 
the treasures kept by the Woodmen? Can they salvage 
something from the ruin? They may not live to see the 
downfall of the Enemy, but they can save the North from 
his malice and give hope to the future.
Using the Campaign
Among other things, the Adventures in Middle-earth 
Loremaster’s Guide elaborates why players should not be 
intimidated by what some recognise as a ‘Tolkien canon‘ 
(pages 48 and 49). They  should not feel limited by the 
Campaign offered in this guide either, and for very similar 
reasons: Middle-earth historians can be wrong, rumours 
are often mistaken for truth and what is written may not 
be what actually came to pass.
When considering the events described in this guide for 
inclusion in their own game, Loremasters are encouraged 
to customise the facts and adventures presented herein, 
to the point of altering or discarding them altogether, to 
replace with new ones of their own devising. 
This guide is filled with plot elements that are meant to be 
woven together with the deeds of the players, not a rigid 
script for them to play through.
Not everything contained here will suit every group, and 
you should not attempt to have your players witness or 
take part in every single occurrence described. If the year’s 
main’ events are in Southern Mirkwood, and the players 
are currently in the Woodland Realm, there is no need to 
force them to travel the length of Mirkwood – either run 
another adventure, or let them simply hear later about 
what transpired.
Personal Stakes
The campaign works best if the players have a stake in 
Mirkwood. Ideally, most of the heroes come from the Free 
Folk who live in or around the forest – either Woodmen, 
Silvan Elves or Beornings. Characters from foreign cultures 
should be given a personal reason to care about what 
happens to the forest and to keep them close to the action.
The companions are the heroes of the campaign. That does 
not mean they must be stronger than Beorn or wiser than 
Radagast, nor does it mean that Loremaster characters 
do not have weight – it means that every game session 
should be about what the heroes do, about their part in 
the fight against the Enemy. If Beorn defeats an army of 
Goblins, it should be the epic consequence of the player-
heroes’ infiltration into the caves under the Mountains of 
Mirkwood to find the lost Sceptre of Oropher.
Holdings
The rules for creating and running a holding (page 9) give 
the players something of their own to build and protect. 
They make a character part of the setting – and they are

--- PAGE 7 ---
7
wonderful leverage for the Loremaster to use. If Spiders 
attack a Woodman village, that’s a tragedy for the heroes 
to avenge – but if the village includes a farm that is part of 
a hero’s holding, then it’s personal.
Moreover, holdings may put heroes in a difficult position 
where they are forced to choose between their own 
interests and the common good: what will a hero choose 
when faced with the option of remaining faithful to an 
important quest, or return home to protect his own?
Kin & Hearth
When Bilbo Baggins went There and Back Again, the worst 
he had to contend with at home with was the Sackville-
Bagginses stealing his spoons. Frodo went to Mordor and 
returned to find the Shire wounded, but he still left a place 
of comfort and safety to travel far into danger. Most of the 
heroes of the Mirkwood Campaign do not have the same 
luxury. For heroes native to Wilderland, danger is not over 
the Misty Mountains and far away – it is right outside 
their door. What is threatened by the growing Shadow are 
their homes and their way of life.
When it is the case, the Loremaster should encourage the 
players to describe where they live, who are the important 
personalities of their folk and which stories are told in 
their home culture. 
Over the course of the campaign, the players should be 
offered the chance to become leaders in their communities, 
marry and have children, make friends and allies. Then, 
with a kin and a hearth to defend, it will be easy for the 
Loremaster to threaten all they stand for.
Personal threats can take many forms in the Campaign. 
Orcs come down from the mountains to raid villages, 
Spiders lurk in the shadows, and the dead walk in 
the woods. Then, there are subtler threats, but no less 
dangerous; a dark power corrupts and rots all that is good 
and wholesome, sowing dissent among the Woodman 
clans, the Elves turn their backs on the world, and once-
trusted allies fall prey to fear, despair or even turn to the 
Shadow.
As Mirkwood grows darker, the heroes should see the 
world becoming more hostile and perilous with each 
passing year.
Customising the Adventures
The plot elements described in the Adventuring Phase 
entries are not detailed as other published adventures 
(and become more and more so as the Campaign 
progresses). Loremasters should look at them as starting 
points and suggestions, to be customised around their 
playing groups.
Where possible, the Loremaster should link the events of 
the adventure directly to the companions. If an adventure 
mentions a kidnap victim, it should be one of the 
companions’ kin or friends. If an adventure has a villain, 
it should be replaced with a recurring foe that the players
really hate!
The Passing Years
The Mirkwood Campaign spans thirty years, longer than 
the time most heroes spend adventuring. From the start 
of the campaign, players should have one eye on the 
future. Bardings, Beornings, Woodmen and even Hobbit 
heroes are encouraged to get married, settle down, have 
children, and eventually hand over their weapons to their 
sons and daughters. See Experience Awards, below, for 
more information on how to handle new heroes joining 
the Campaign. Dwarves and Elves should set their aim 
on similarly-termed goals, such as the foundation of a 
settlement, the hoarding of treasure, the recovery of a 
long-lost heirloom, all for the greater glory of their folk or 
to pass along to a worthy heir.
During play, the Loremaster can remind the players of the 
unfolding of time in more effective ways than just listing 
the passing of year after year. New villages get founded, 
grow, and then disappear, victim to Orcs or plague or 
some other disaster. Loremaster characters enter the 
heroes’ lives, then disappear and are forgotten, or age 
and die; villains start off as strong young warriors and 
end as aged tyrants. Mirkwood is a living forest, and 
sometimes nothing more than describing yet another turn 
of the colour of its leaves or the first snowfall is needed to 
summon the feeling of time flowing ever on.
Light & Dark
A very simple metaphor runs through the entire Campaign 
— light and darkness are equated with good and evil. 
Dark places are bad, dangerous and home to evil things; 
sunshine, open fires and blazing lamps are good. A brightly 
The Mirkwood Campaign

--- PAGE 8 ---
Mirkwood Campaign
8
lit place is a safe haven. The Loremaster would do good 
to play up this symbolism – hope should be kindled with 
flaming torches, dark times be announced by the coming 
of black clouds, the company should meet allies in sunlit 
clearings,  and face down foes in the shadows below the 
trees. This balance of light and darkness can also be used 
to mark the current state of things in Mirkwood. If, by the 
company’s actions, the Elves of Mirkwood become more 
insular and wayward, then the halls of King Thranduil 
may be described as lit by flickering candles and full of 
ghostly shadows. If, conversely, the companions rally the 
Elves and bring hope to the forest, then their sanctuaries 
blaze with the glare of magical lamps, reflected off 
the rocky ceilings like a heaven of shining stars above. 
Absolute despair comes with absolute darkness.
Experience Awards
Throughout this volume you’ll see symbols in the margin. 
These indicate a chance for the Loremaster to award 
Experience Points for overcoming challenges. These 
opportunities are optional, to be made at the Loremaster’s 
discretion and in accordance with the method of levelling 
they have chosen. They might form a direct, numerical 
award, or a silently observed instance that counts towards 
gaining a whole level if enough are checked off. Every game 
will vary, but these Experience Awards have been calculated 
to offer a good chance for a typical Company to level up in 
accordance with the pace we suggest for the Campaign.
The Mirkwood Campaign makes use of the Companion 
and Challenge Rating Experience Award Table (provided 
below) for non-combat encounters. Just as a combat 
encounter should be scaled to reflect the size of your 
company, so too should these Awards be scaled to match 
your group of adventurers.
The symbols in red represent an individual achievement 
and are awarded to a single hero. Those in green are 
intended to be divided amongst the party. Experience 
derived from battle is calculated according to the core 
rules – for the sake of simplicity and consistency there is 
no change there.
Three especial notes must be made for a campaign of this 
length — firstly, it’s expected that new player-heroes will 
join the Company as older heroes succumb to the Shadow, 
fall in battle or retire to a well-earned life of peace. Newer 
heroes should receive an equal part of the Experience 
Awards… even if they stayed at the battle’s edge or were 
silent in the chambers of the high and mighty, they surely 
learned from their elders and will be even more ready for 
the challenges of the future. Awarding a full share of the 
XP for a higher level challenge will allow new companions 
to join the ranks of veteran heroes that much sooner.
Secondly, Experience Awards are provided for sections 
of the Campaign where a few lines might sketch out the 
contents of an entire gaming session. This is especially 
true of Year’s End entries, which sometimes contain the 
seed of a follow-up adventure. The Loremaster should 
use the Award rating in this case to provide a ‘budget’ for 
adversaries that the Company will face or as a gauge for 
the difficulty of their assignment. Earning these awards 
is factored into the progression of the Campaign, so if 
you don’t run a follow-on adventure, the award might 
instead represent the many challenges of ordinary life in 
the Wild.
Thirdly, the first section of the Campaign — The Last 
Good Years is flexible on level ranges. It is assumed that 
the Company will garner additional Experience (perhaps 
by playing through part or all of Wilderland Adventures 
or using the suggested Events and Year’s End entries to 
produce additional adventures). As long as the heroes 
begin The Return of the Shadow at 5th level they will be on 
schedule to reach 15th level by the end of the Campaign.
 
	
Challenge	
XP 	
Challenge	
XP
	
2	
450	
9	
5,000
	
3	
750	
10	
5,900
	
4	
1,100	
11	
7,200
	
5	
1,800	
12	
8,400
	
6	
2,300	
13	
10,000
	
7	
2,900	
14	
11,500
	
8	
3,900	
15	
13,000
Individual
Award
Group
Award

--- PAGE 9 ---
9
Rules for Holdings
‘He lives in an oakwood and has a great wooden house; and 
as a man he keeps cattle and horses…’
Over the course of the campaign, heroes may come into 
possession of a holding. A holding might be a business, like 
a smithy or a tavern. It might be a farm, or the companion 
might own land that is tilled by peasants who rent the land 
and give the character a portion of each harvest. Holdings 
do not need to be limited to strictly physical possessions — 
a Woodman’s home and family might together constitute 
a holding.
A holding represents the hero’s main occupation when 
they are not adventuring. Bag End might be considered 
part of a holding belonging to Bilbo Baggins (and later, 
Frodo); Sam’s gardening job there would also be a holding 
(of less value). Not every adventurer has a holding; a 
truant Hobbit far from the Shire or a merry Elf might not 
have any responsibilities or commitments.
Gaining a Holding
There are many ways for a hero to come into possession 
of a holding. For example, a lucky hero might inherit a 
holding from a wealthy family member. Typically, a 
companion gains a holding as the result of an adventure, 
perhaps as a gift, or maybe by finding an unoccupied 
holding and taking possession of it. Acquiring a holding 
might be the subject of an Adventuring phase or heroes 
can use the Tend to Holding undertaking (see below) to 
lay the foundations of a holding if they have established a 
suitable location.
Rating
Description
Examples
+0
Poor
New or abandoned 
farmstead, disused 
building
+1
Modest
Trapper’s cabin; small or 
poorly kept farm
+2
Adequate
Farmstead; homely 
cottage; small yet well-
stocked shop
+3
Respectable
Small inn; large farm; 
homes of the well-to-do
+4
Superior
Rich hunting grounds; 
large inn; popular shop
+5
Thriving
Iron mine; minor noble’s 
estate; the fanciest shops 
of Dale and Esgaroth
+6
Opulent
Gold or silver mine; major 
noble’s estate
Rating
The table above gives Ratings for holdings and some 
examples of sample holdings that might have such a 
Rating. Players should remember that even the grandest 
estate of a noble was once a tract of untamed wilderness. 
Investment in both gold and time can increase a holding’s 
Rating and bad luck or bad management can reduce the 
Rating of a holding. The Loremaster should work with each 
player to describe how a holding has changed as its rating 
fluctuates. Ratings can never go below +0 or above +6.
Specialities
A character who owns a holding may profit from having a 
matching Speciality – an innkeeper should learn Cooking, 
a Hunter Beast-Lore and so on (see Holding Upkeep below). 
See Gain New Trait on page 200 of the Player’s Guide.
The Mirkwood Campaign

--- PAGE 10 ---
Mirkwood Campaign
10
Running a Holding
The mundane affairs of running a business – planting 
crops, mining ore, forging tools and so on – can be ignored 
in the game; it is assumed that the character has the 
requisite skills, or can employ someone who does. What 
is important to determine is how a holding may change 
over the course of the years, and what fruits does it bear.
Holding Upkeep
During a Fellowship phase that represents the end of a 
year, all players whose heroes have a holding must make 
a special check, called the Holding Upkeep check. The DC 
for the test is determined by the hero’s Standard of Living, 
as producing a Frugal result from a holding is easier than 
a Prosperous one. A hero can voluntarily choose a higher 
Standard of Living, which they will benefit from until the 
next Holding Upkeep check.
Standard of Living
Holding Upkeep DC
Poor
10
Frugal
12
Martial
14
Prosperous
18
Rich
20
The player rolls a d20 and adds the hero’s Proficiency 
Bonus and the holding’s Rating. If it has been more than 
a year since the hero visited the holding then the Holding 
Upkeep check is made at Disadvantage. Note that heroes 
can spend a Fellowship phase at a holding and select 
other undertakings (such as Heal Corruption) instead of 
Tend to Holding. 
If the hero spends Inspiration or possesses a relevant Trait 
(for example Woodwright for a barrel-maker’s shop), they 
gain Advantage on the Holding Upkeep check. Compare 
the result to the following list:
• 
Failure with a natural 1: the holding suffers some 
disaster or misfortune. The hero must immediately 
pay a number of gold pieces equal to twice their 
holding’s Rating. If not, the Rating of the holding is 
reduced by 1 (to a minimum of +0).
Examples: a farm damaged by flooding, an inn 
attacked by raiders, a gold mine sapped from below 
by Goblins.
• 
Failure with any other result: the holding has 
struggled this year. The hero must pay equal to the 
holding’s Rating in gold pieces in order to achieve 
their base Standard of Living. If the hero cannot pay 
the Upkeep cost, the Rating of the holding is reduced 
by 1 (to a minimum of +0).
• 
Success with a natural 20: the holding provides for 
the hero’s Standard of Living and produces excess 
profit equal to twice the holding’s Rating in gold 
pieces. If the hero elects to not receive the wealth in 
coin and invest it into the holding instead, the Rating 
of the holding is increased by one (to a maximum of 
+6). Furthermore, some auspicious event occurs.
 
Examples: a sick child recovers, an old feud is settled, 
the weather is unusually pleasant and mild.
• 
Success with any other result: the holding has seen 
moderate success and produces enough profit to pay 
the hero’s yearly Standard of Living expenses, plus 
gold pieces equal to the holding’s Rating. 
New Fellowship Phase Undertaking: 
Tend to Holding
A character may spend a Fellowship phase undertaking 
to improve his holding. If he does so, he can then elect 
to spend gold pieces equal to thrice the holding’s 
improved Rating (e.g. 3g to go from +0 to +1, 6g 
to +2, 9g to +3, and so on).  The holding’s Rating is 
then increased by 1 at the end of the Fellowship phase. 
A holding’s Rating can never exceed +6.
A hero can select this undertaking after winning 
a potential holding during an Adventuring phase. 
After spending the undertaking in hard labour (but 
spending no coin), the hero now has a holding with a 
Rating of +0.

--- PAGE 11 ---
11
the Last Good Years:
- 2947-2950 -
These are the last years before the return of the Shadow. 
The Woodmen multiply, but they must deal with the 
scattered minions of Dol Guldur. In the north, the Elves 
savour again the joy of living under the dark boughs 
of the forest, but are later troubled by the Werewolf of 
Mirkwood and quarrel with the folk of Dale.
- Year 2947 -
for heroes of level 5 or lower
Events
Gollum passes through Mirkwood. The wretched 
creature crosses the Long Marshes just south of the Elf-
path, then makes his way south-west, skirting away from 
any danger. In the autumn, he crosses into the Western 
Eaves, and survives by preying on the unwary and those 
who are too weak to defend themselves.
Ceawin the Generous (Rhovanion Region Guide, page 
114) sends messengers to Woodmen-town, Rhosgobel 
and Woodland Hall, asking for the clan elders to hear 
his plea. He wants to ally his followers living in the East 
Bight with the Woodmen, his distant kin. The elders 
agree to hear his request, and a folk-moot is arranged for 
the midsummer of the following year at Rhosgobel.
The companions may meet these messengers, or be sent 
to the East Bight with the reply of the elders. After several 
years of peace, the howl of the Werewolf of Mirkwood is 
again heard in the forest. It attacks a party of Dwarves 
from Erebor after they foolishly stray from the Elf-path.
Adventuring Phase: 
The Wizard’s Man
The heroes encounter a wounded man and are then 
threatened by the servants of Tyrant’s Hill.
The Spy of Rhosgobel
While out hunting or travelling near Rhosgobel, the 
companions encounter a wounded man. He stumbles 
towards them, his face pale as a ghost, yellow-flecked 
spit welling up from the  corners of his mouth. He was 
waylaid by Spiders in the woods, and their poison courses 
through his veins. He presses a crumpled note into the 
character’s hands before becoming Unconscious.
Any Woodman companion hailing from Mirkwood (or 
anyone possessing the Region-lore (Mirkwood) trait) 
recognises him as Beran the Watchful; he is a Woodman, 
2
The Last Good Years: 2947-2950

--- PAGE 12 ---
Mirkwood Campaign
12
and is known as one of Radagast’s informants and 
watchmen. The heroes can make a DC 10 Intelligence 
(Investigation or Riddle) check to decipher the note 
he carries. It warns that Beran saw Orcs in Fenbridge 
Castle, one of the outlying fortifications of Dol Guldur 
(see Rhovanion Region Guide, page 120). A scrawled 
map notes the position of Fenbridge, and also marks a 
tower near the Narrows of the Forest (the Tyrant’s Hill). 
The Enemy abandoned the castle after the White Council 
drove the Necromancer from Dol Guldur, but now the 
Orcs have returned.
The Hand of Mogdred
Soon after Beran meets the Company, a group of armed 
warriors emerge from the forest, accompanied by huge 
snarling wolfhounds. They are clad not unlike the 
Woodmen of Mirkwood, but do not bear the marks of 
any known clan. They wear mail shirts, and carry helms 
and shields on their back, but it is clear that they are not 
looking for a fight. There are as many Servants of Tyrant’s 
Hill as there are heroes, and also the same number of 
Savage Hounds.
The leader of the group steps forward: she’s a lean, 
broad-shouldered Northman woman, with dark hair 
streaked with white. She announces herself as Dagmar, 
a free huntress of the forest. Pointing at the poisoned 
man, she claims that Beran stole something from her, 
and arrogantly demands that he should be handed over 
to them. If questioned, Dagmar identifies herself as a 
follower of Mogdred, the Lord of the Tyrant’s Hill. Her 
master, she tells them, claims the southern forest as 
his realm, and is a Woodman born of Mirkwood. She 
insists that they are friends to the Woodmen, but her 
demeanour says otherwise.
Dagmar is lying — she captured Beran in the woods, and 
forcibly escorted him to the Tyrant’s Hill. Beran escaped 
but blundered into a Spider-web. Mogdred wants to 
keep news of the Orcs from the Woodmen for as long as 
possible, until he decides which side to support. If the 
companions point out the letter, Dagmar offers to bring 
Beran to Rhosgobel and deliver it personally.
Dealing with Dagmar 
If the companions choose to fight Dagmar and her men, 
use the statistics for Servants of the Tyrant’s Hill and their 
Savage Hounds, below. Dagmar does not want to kill the 
companions – Mogdred does not want to antagonise his 
neighbours – but neither is she overly solicitous of their 
health. If the Company surrender or flee, she lets them 
go. If the companions hand Beran over, then Dagmar and 
her followers vanish into the forest with the wounded 
man. He is never seen again. 
If the companions insist on bringing Beran to Rhosgobel, 
then Dagmar offers to accompany them. “These woods 
are dangerous”, she says, “Spiders and worse things 
draw near.” On the way there, Dagmar looks for an 
opportunity to recapture Beran and the note. She might 
even attack the Company as they sleep. 
If the heroes refuse Dagmar’s offer, then she and her 
men follow them through the woods; if they are unable 
to escape her, she ambushes them before they reach 
Rhosgobel. By then, her frustration is enough to drive 
her to kill.
Servant of Tyrant’s Hill
Medium Human
STR 
12 (+1)
DEX 
10 (+0)
CON 
14 (+2)
INT 
10 (+0)
WIS 
11 (+0)
CHA 
8 (-1)
Armour Class 15 (Mail Shirt, Shield)
Hit Points 19 (3d8+6)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Intimidation +1, Perception +2, Survival +2
Senses passive Perception 12
Languages Westron
Challenge 1/2 (100 XP)
Ambush. During his first turn, the Servant has 
Advantage on attack rolls against any creature that hasn’t 
taken a turn.
Craven. If the Servant starts his turn with 9 or less hit 
points, he must make a DC 10 Wisdom saving throw. On 
a failure, he becomes Frightened and must use his Dash 
or Disengage action to move away from any enemies. If 
movement is impossible, he will take the Dodge action 
instead.
Actions
Broadsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 5 (1d8+1) slashing damage.
3

--- PAGE 13 ---
13
Savage Hound
Small Beast
STR 
14 (+2)
DEX 
10 (+0)
CON 
17 (+3)
INT 
10 (+0)
WIS 
10 (+0)
CHA 
10 (+0)
Armour Class 10
Hit Points 6 (1d6+3)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Perception +4
Senses passive Perception 14
Challenge 1/8 (25 XP)
Hunter. The Savage Hound doubles its Proficiency 
Bonus for all Wisdom (Perception) checks (included 
above).
Pack Tactics. The hound has Advantage on an attack 
roll against a creature if at least one of the its allies 
is within 5 feet of the creature and that ally isn’t 
Incapacitated.
Actions
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 5 (1d6+2) piercing damage.
At Rhosgobel 
At Rhosgobel, the Company meet Radagast, who is deeply 
concerned by news of the Orcs at Fenbridge. He has been 
keeping a close watch over the ruins of Dol Guldur and 
the other outlying fortresses, and hoped that Mirkwood 
would enjoy a long time of peace before evil returned 
to the wood. If the Company wish, they can try to gain 
Radagast as a patron (see page 101 of the Rhovanion 
Region Guide). 
The Lord of the Tyrant’s Hill 
The companions may wish to know more about Mogdred, 
the so-called Lord of the Tyrant’s Hill (Rhovanion Region 
Guide, page 120). According to rumour, he commands 
many well-equipped warriors, and claims part of 
Southern Mirkwood and the Narrows as his domain. 
Some of the settlements in the southern vales pay him 
tribute. No one among his followers knows where 
Mogdred comes from, but his tower was once inhabited 
by Orcs and Men who bore the sigil of the Necromancer.
Year’s End
This is one of the last good years before the Shadow 
returns – when making a Holding Upkeep check, reduce 
the DC by 2.
- Year 2948 - 
for heroes of level 5 or lower
Events
Gandalf travels across Wilderland, with the intention 
of inviting one of the rulers of the North to become a 
member of the White Council. He visits the courts of 
Elves, Dwarves and Men, and is generally received with 
honour and a little suspicion – where the Grey Pilgrim 
goes, trouble follows. If Gandalf meets the Company, he 
asks them questions about their rulers. Unless impressed 
greatly to the contrary, he resolves not to invite anyone to 
the White Council, not to compromise the fragile alliance 
that the North seems to be enjoying. He ends his journey 
in Rhosgobel, where he rests for a few days and confers 
with his fellow Wizard. 
Representatives from all the houses of the Woodmen 
gather at Rhosgobel to hear Ceawin the Generous. See 
The Folk-moot at Rhosgobel, below. 
Trespassers from Dale enter the Woodland Realm and 
cut down trees, including some silver beeches that are 
especially beloved of the Elves. 
Una, a young merchant princess from Dorwinion, leaves 
her court in early summer to visit Dale for diplomatic 
reasons. A detachment of Barding warriors (possibly 
including the companions) is sent by King Bard to meet 
her caravan along the Running River; they reach the 
merchant convoy just in time to discourage a band of 
raiders from the East that was following them. When the 
princess finally arrives in Dale, everyone witnesses how 
King Bard is captivated by the sight of Una’s dancing 
during the feast held in her honour.
5
The Last Good Years: 2947-2950

--- PAGE 14 ---
Mirkwood Campaign
14
Adventuring Phase: 
The Folk-moot at Rhosgobel
Representatives from all the Houses of the Woodmen 
come to Rhosgobel at midsummer. This gathering also 
brings merchants and traders from far afield. Envoys and 
guests from other Free Folk are also welcome to attend the 
folk-moot, where many matters relating to the Woodmen 
are debated (characters who are not Woodmen may be 
given special missions or assignments by their rulers to 
bring up at the gathering). 
Notable people present: 
• 
Ingomer, of the House of Woodland Hall: 
Ingomer Axebreaker is the head of the council of 
elders of Woodland Hall (Rhovanion Region Guide, 
page 103); he has the loudest voice in the folk-moot 
and keeps order in the meeting. Ingomer greets the 
companions as they enter; he announces to the 
gathering any Woodman hero of great renown. 
• 
Hartfast, of the House of Mountain Hall: Old and 
quarrelsome, Hartfast son of Hartmut is the chieftain 
of Mountain Hall. Unlike the other Woodmen, the 
strange folk of the hall always elect a chieftain to rule 
them and protect them from the Orcs of the Misty 
Mountains.
• 
Fridwald the Runner, of the House of Woodmen-
town: Fridwald is a wiry old man who serves as chief 
messenger and runner between the three Woodmen 
settlements of Mirkwood since too many years to 
count. Despite his advanced age, he is still hale 
and hardy, and knows the paths of the forest better 
than anyone else. When the folk of Woodmen-town 
do not go to Radagast for counsel, they turn to old 
Fridwald. With him is his nephew Munderic, a lazy 
boy of ten who Fridwald is vainly trying to convince 
to be a messenger for the Woodmen too.
• 
Radagast the Brown: By ancient tradition, the 
Wizard attends all folk-moots as an honoured friend.

--- PAGE 15 ---
15
Radagast says little, preferring to sit in a corner and 
amuse the children with his magical dancing mice.
• 
Amaleoda, Shieldmaiden of the Black Tarn: in 
charge of her family since her father’s death, Amaleoda 
and her kin live on the western shore of the Black Tarn. 
They are fishers and hunters. Of the Woodmen, they 
live closest to the Shadow of Dol Guldur.
Special guests:
• 
Ceawin the Generous: Golden-haired Ceawin is the 
young leader of a band of settlers in the East Bight, 
on the far side of Mirkwood. Most of his followers are 
distant kin to the Woodmen.
• 
Bofri, son of Bofur: The Dwarf visits the folk-moot in 
search of brave warriors and scouts who can help him 
explore the remains of the Old Forest Road (Rhovanion 
Region Guide, page 93).
 
Chance Meetings
Before the folk-moot begins, the Company can meet 
friends, gather rumours or speak with Radagast. They 
may hear tell of recent events, learn old stories like the 
tale of Balthi, rumours about the River-maidens, or learn 
of the loss of Ingomer’s son in the forest by using any 
relevant social skills. Ceawin’s followers are everywhere, 
offering gifts of food, drink and gold to win support. 
The Moot Begins
At first, the folk-moot deals with trivial matters. The 
assembled elders discuss trade between their Houses and 
their allies. The traders of Mountain Hall complain about 
the tolls requested by the Beornings; the folk of Woodmen-
town ask for more iron and tin; foreign merchants come to 
sell swords and spear-heads made by Dwarves in the north. 
Next, the folk of the Black Tarn speak. Amaleoda says that 
the recent years brought wonderful harvests, that the lake 
is alive with fish, and the pestilent fogs that sometimes 
blew up from the south are gone. The Maiden of the Lake 
welcomes their presence. They invite more of the Woodmen 
to come south with them to the Black Tarn, for they intend 
to raise a longhouse and build a larger walled settlement. 
The Woodmen greet this prospect with enthusiasm, but 
Ingomer raises his hands for silence. 
“One not of our people – though a kin from afar – asked to 
speak here. Come forth, Ceawin.” 
Ceawin Speaks 
Ceawin the Generous climbs up on a platform to address 
the crowd. “For those who do not know me,” and here he 
addresses himself chiefly to Hartfast, “my people dwell 
in the East Bight of Mirkwood.” Ceawin lists the virtues 
of the East Bight – the soil is fertile, it is close to the rich 
lands of Dale and Dorwinion, and it was the home of the 
Northmen of old. He has many followers and a sturdy 
longhouse. He asks to be counted among the Woodmen – 
his people need to learn how to survive in Mirkwood, and 
offers friendship and wealth in exchange. 
The response to Ceawin’s speech is divided. Some are 
suspicious of newcomers; others, like Hartfast of Mountain 
Hall, recognise the wisdom of his request. Firienseld is, 
after all, even further from Woodmen-town than the East 
Bight, and they are counted among the Woodmen. 
Just before Ingomer calls for the vote, one of Radagast’s 
birds flaps down and lands on the Wizard’s shoulder, 
cawing frantically. A moment later, the sound of horns 
echoes out of the wood. 
The Prodigal Son
A dozen riders emerge quietly from the shadow of the 
trees. If the companions played through The Wizard’s 
Man (page 11), they recognise the garb of the men of the 
Tyrant’s Hill. All are armed, and their weapons seem both 
well-made and well-used. Two of them have big sacks tied 
to the back of their mounts. At their head rides a dread 
figure, wearing a helm made in the likeness of a dragon. 
“Only Woodmen and their friends are welcome here,” 
declares Ingomer. 
The stranger removes his helm. “But I am a Woodman, 
by blood and birth. Don’t you recognise me? You called 
me Ingold, your son, though men now call me Mogdred.” 
Shaken, Ingomer sits down. 
Mogdred address the crowd. “For many years, I was a 
slave in the dungeons of the Necromancer! Now I am lord 
of the place you call the Tyrant’s Hill, and I command 
many men.” He points his sword at Amaleoda. “You and 
2
2
The Last Good Years: 2947-2950

--- PAGE 16 ---
Mirkwood Campaign
16
yours would be long dead if it were not for our protection. 
Darkness returns to the forest, had you but eyes to see 
it. There are Orcs in Fenbridge, and shadows stir in Dol 
Guldur.” 
A warrior in the crowd wants to know what Mogdred asks 
of this folk-moot. He responds with scorn, “A seat in the 
councils of the Woodmen, tribute from the Black Tarn, wives 
for my warriors, gold from the mountains. That stranger -” 
he points at Ceawin the Generous, “offered you trinkets and 
sweetcakes. My offer is of a more practical sort.” 
His two followers up-end the sacks they brought with 
them. Dozens of Orc-heads tumble from them. “What say 
you?” he demands arrogantly.
The Debate
The Woodmen must choose how to respond. The 
companions may attempt to sway the Woodmen. 
Charisma (Deception, Intimidation, Performance 
or Persuasion); Intelligence (History, Riddle or 
Traditions) or Wisdom (Insight) might all be used to 
influence the attendees. The difficulty varies according to 
the proposal of which there are three: 
• 
Welcome Ceawin’s people into the Woodmen: 
On the one hand, they are wealthy and an alliance 
with them would make the Woodmen stronger. On 
the other, Ceawin is a stranger, and the East Bight 
is far away – if Orcs have come back to Southern 
Mirkwood, then maintaining trade with the East Bight 
will be perilous.
Opinion on Ceawin’s proposal is divided amidst the 
Woodmen. It requires a DC 10 check to sway them 
either way. If the heroes do not speak for or against 
Ceawin, the Woodmen will vote for him to join them 
after much debate.
• 
Build a new hall at the Black Tarn:  Amaleoda’s 
folk are prospering, and establishing a new House 
would strengthen the Woodmen as a whole. The Black 
Tarn is rich in fish, and they have the friendship of the 
River-maidens.
Virtually everyone supports Amaleoda on principle, 
but some fear that the new village is too close to the 
dangers of the south. To speak for Amaleoda is DC 10 
and against her is DC 15. Unless strongly persuaded 
otherwise, the Woodmen readily agree to the raising 
of a new longhouse.
• 
Welcome the Lord of Tyrant’s Hill into the 
Woodmen:   Mogdred’s sudden appearance at the 
conclave means that few people are sure what to think. 
He strongly implied a threat — “If you’re not my friends, 
then you’re my enemies, and you already have more 
enemies than you know” — and that was not the act of 
a kind man. He demanded tribute instead of asking 
for friendship, and seemed to consider the Black Tarn 
part of his domain. However, is it not better to have his 
warriors as allies instead of enemies? If the Woodmen 
refuse Mogdred, then he could threaten both a new 
Black Tarn village and anyone travelling to the East 
Bight. Also, he is Ingomer’s son, and Ingomer was a 
good leader. His son clearly suffered in the dungeons, 
and he is not very polite, but is that a good reason to 
reject him?
Shocked, the Woodmen find it hard to accept 
Mogdred. To speak for the newcomer requires DC 20 
but arguments against him are only DC 10. Unless 
strongly persuaded otherwise, the Woodmen reject 
Mogdred’s offer.
After some time, Ingomer calls for a vote.
Judgement of the Folk-moot 
The decisions made here have repercussions long into the 
future:
5

--- PAGE 17 ---
17
Proposal
Accepted
Rejected
Ceawin
Over the next few 
years, several 
Woodmen families
move to the East 
Bight to settle there. 
Ceawin names his 
main settlement the 
Sunstead, and it 
prospers for several 
years.
Ceawin returns 
empty-handed and 
angry. His people 
rapidly dwindle as 
many flee the forest 
to the safer land of 
the Bardings to the 
north.
Amleoda
Any Woodmen who 
wish to settle by the 
lake are welcomed 
in Black Tarn Hall. 
Many people from 
Woodmen-town and 
Rhosgobel go east to 
help its  building.
Shocked and 
surprised, the 
shieldmaiden 
returns home to the 
lake. Her people 
continue to grow in 
numbers, but more 
and more of them 
turn to Mogdred’s 
men for protection.
Mogdred
Mogdred’s men 
help protect 
the Woodmen’s 
southern border, 
but they cause lots 
of trouble. There 
is bitter fighting 
between the Orcs of 
Fenbridge Castle and 
the warriors of the 
Tyrant’s Hill.
Angered, Mogdred 
returns to his 
fortress. His 
warriors become 
raiders, attacking 
the Woodmen 
settlements and 
making travel 
through the 
forest even more 
dangerous.
If both Amaleoda’s and Mogdred’s proposals were 
accepted, the two Houses watch each other suspiciously. If 
the Woodmen support Ceawin or Amaleoda (or both), but 
reject Mogdred, then the new Woodman settlements are 
virtually cut off by the men of Tyrant’s Hill, and travelling 
to those areas becomes dangerous. 
Year’s End
Companions spending the Fellowship phase in Dale or 
Esgaroth hear news of how King Bard is wooing fair Una 
of Dorwinion. Barding heroes of sufficient rank may even 
play an important part in the king’s betrothal as amorous 
intermediaries, if they wish to intervene and be involved.
- Year 2949 -
for heroes of level 5 or lower
Events
Early this year, King Bard marries Una of Dorwinion. 
The bond reinforces the status of the kingdom of Dale as 
a rising power in the North, as Una comes with a rich 
dowry of gold and diplomatic relations. In December, Una 
gives birth to a male child, Prince Bain, making Bard a 
father at the age of 38.
Spiders attack a Woodman boat travelling down the Dusky 
River. The River-maidens intercede to save the Woodmen 
by guiding them out of the webs. One of the Woodmen 
reports seeing a gigantic Spider lurking in the shadows. 
Gollum lingers on the fringes of the Western Eaves, 
stealing food from the Woodmen. One farmer tries to 
catch the chicken-thief; Gollum retaliates by terrifying 
the farmer’s cows, who trample the Woodman to death. 
Ingomer of Woodland Hall puts a bounty on the head of 
this ’Bloody Ghost’.
Beorn visits Northern Mirkwood, and meets with the 
Elves. King Thranduil sends emissaries to meet with him. 
Elven heroes who have good relations with the Beornings 
may be included in this mission. 
Tensions with the Barding villages along the eastern 
border of the Woodland Realm continue, as the Bardings 
trespass into the lands of the Elves.
Balin and Gandalf visit Bilbo in the Shire. On the way, they 
speak of Moria and Balin begins dreaming of a return to 
that lost city.
Adventuring Phase: 
The Questing Beasts
For many years, King Thranduil has hunted the fabled 
white deer of Mirkwood, a race of enchanted beasts known 
to roam all of the forest. They are rarely seen, and some 
consider their appearance to foreshadow portentous 
5
The Last Good Years: 2947-2950

--- PAGE 18 ---
Mirkwood Campaign
18
events. Recently, hunters have spotted the creatures in 
Northern Mirkwood, and the Elvenking has called for a 
royal hunt.
Normally, only Elves of the Woodland Realm would be 
invited to participate in such a hunt, but the Elvenking 
declares that mortals may participate if they are friends 
of the realm. A few Woodmen and warriors from Dale 
and Lake-town are allowed to join in the hunt. If the 
heroes have good relations with the Woodland Realm, 
or have Thranduil as a patron, they receive invitations. 
Alternatively, if the characters have a different patron, 
then he may ask them to represent him at Thranduil’s 
hunt.
The hunt begins at the Elvenking’s Halls, then ranges out 
to the north and west. Thranduil and some of the Elves 
ride grey horses that seem to magically slip through the 
thickets and undergrowth without impediment, but most 
hunters are on foot. The hunt may take many weeks to 
complete, as the white deer wander far into Northern 
Mirkwood.
 
Ruthiel
One of the hunters who sets out at the same time as the 
companions is an Elf-maiden named Ruithel, famed as 
a huntress and a tracker. She wields one of the treasures 
of the Woodland Realm, the bow Penbregol, strung with 
mithril by the Dwarf-smith Gamil Zirak in the depths of 
time. Ruithel was recently promoted to command the 
guards who watch the Elf-path and the borders of the 
Realm, and is eager to prove herself worthy of the office 
and the bow that comes with it.
Ruithel laughs at any mortal hunters. Mirkwood has been 
her home for more than two thousand years; how can 
they call themselves hunters and woodwise when they 
have not watched these mighty oaks leap up young and 
green in the spring of the world? She also speaks softly 
but coldly about the humans who trespassed in the east of 
the Realm, and how they will be punished if they lay axe 
to tree again.
The Bow of Sudden Fury
Penbregol is a Woodland Bow (see page 159 of the 
Player’s Guide) with the Superior Keen enchanted 
quality (see the Loremaster’s Guide, page 138).
The magical bow is irreplaceable and is traditionally 
held by the captain of the Elvenking’s guard. Any 
mortal who chooses to keep the bow is regarded with 
Mistrust by any Elves, who recognise it on sight.
Hunting the White Deer
The white deer are somewhere in Northern Mirkwood. 
When the Loremaster finds it to be convenient, the 
creatures are spotted by scouts somewhere near the 
Company and the chase is on (if the Loremaster prefers a 
random method, he may roll the d20 each morning of the 
hunt. A result of ‘20’ means a deer is close by.).
Each hero is allowed either a DC 12 Wisdom (Survival) or 
Intelligence (Investigation or Nature) check each day to 
find the trail. A success means that the hero can roll again 
the following day and the day after - three successful checks 
in a row brings a hero within sight of a white deer.
A companion who spots a white deer encounters a single 
animal, or maybe a hind with fawns, as they stand 
glimmering in the shadows – a hero has just enough time 
to let loose an arrow (any other action sees the animals 
turn and vanish silently in the forest). The deer has AC 18: 
5 points of damage or more kills the animal; otherwise the 
hurt creature disappears into the darkness of Mirkwood.
As an option, the Loremaster may choose to run The Pit of 
the Exiled Dwarves (below) while the Company is on the 
hunt. A white deer might even lead the heroes to Ruithel in 
her time of need. 
If a hero brings a white deer down, he is feasted and féted at 
Thranduil’s Hall; this is certainly  a deed worthy of reward… 
the hero receives gifts from Thranduil equal to 100s.
2

--- PAGE 19 ---
19
Killing a Hart in Mirkwood
In The Hobbit, Thorin Oakenshield shoots an arrow 
into a leaping hart just before the Company encounters 
the white hind and her fawns (it is possible that the 
dark hart was the male companion of the snow-white 
hind). Moments later, Bombur falls into the waters of 
the Enchanted River…
If the Loremaster likes the idea, he may have a hero 
hunting the white deer find a dark stag instead, 
guarding his mate and young (following the rules 
described above). If the hart is killed everyone gains 
a Shadow point, and something really bad happens! 
Examples include: a Miserable hero suffers a bout of 
madness, a companion has a riding accident, the noise 
of the hunt rouses the unwanted attention of a whole 
Spider colony, and so on.
The Pit of the Exiled Dwarves 
While travelling through Northern Mirkwood, the 
Company comes across a strange sight – a deep pit cut 
into the forest floor, opening among the thick roots and 
fallen leaves. The pit was obviously concealed in the 
underbrush until recently.
At the bottom of the pit, keen-eyed companions (anyone 
with passive Perception of 13 or higher) spot a silvery 
glimmer in the murky green light: it is the precious bow 
Penbregol! Something must have happened to Ruithel.
A moment later, a pair of hooded Dwarves emerge from a 
concealed door in the side of what appears to be a dead 
tree, but is actually a cunningly carved entrance to their 
underground lair. They do not approach the Company, 
but watch them warily. The two introduce themselves as 
the brothers Polin and Pomin, exiles from the vanished 
Greydelve. They claim that this region is their home, 
and that the companions are trespassing. If asked about 
Ruithel, they admit the Elf is in their custody: they claim 
that she cut the beard from their chieftain Frár the 
Beardless (Rhovanion Region Guide, page 22 — this is 
actually an unfortunate misunderstanding; it was Guilin, 
the former holder of Ruithel’s office that shaved Frár. The 
two Dwarves recognised the famous bow and assumed 
that Ruithel was responsible.)
The Dwarves claim Ruithel as their prisoner, and refuse to 
release her. If the Company try to attack the Dwarves, they 
flee back inside the hollow tree and run down the concealed 
spiral staircase to the caves below. The entrance to the 
hollow tree is concealed with spells of secrecy, requiring 
a DC 30 Intelligence (Investigation) check (DC 15 for a 
Dwarf) to find. If combat becomes inevitable, use the Dwarf 
entry on page 77 of the Loremaster’s Guide for the brothers.
The Dwarves say they will ransom Ruithel once Frár 
arrives, but that may take many weeks. If they must, they 
let the heroes get her bow in exchange for their silence.
Saving Ruithel
There are several possible ways for the Company to rescue 
Ruithel. They could try to gain entrance to the Dwarves’ 
dwelling and fight their way past them. They could 
negotiate. The Dwarves have two Motivations – revenge 
and help reclaiming their former home, the Greydelve, 
1
5
The Last Good Years: 2947-2950

--- PAGE 20 ---
Mirkwood Campaign
20
from the Orcs. Negotiating with the two brothers is tricky, 
as both are half-mad, and their Expectations are often 
unreasonable (Polin expects that the heroes exalt Frár as 
the greatest living Dwarf-lord; Pomin often begins or ends 
sentences in the middle and becomes frustrated if the 
heroes cannot follow his reasoning). 
They can also try to trick or threaten the Dwarves into giving 
up the Elf, but this will result in their perpetual enmity. If 
the Company can engineer a peaceful resolution, then both 
Ruithel and the Dwarves are in their debt. Thranduil may 
even consider meeting with their chieftain Frár and helping 
the Dwarves in retaking the Greydelve. If the Company 
leave Ruithel to her fate, she escapes the captivity of the 
Dwarves several weeks later. Ever after, she bears a grudge 
against mortals, and becomes sympathetic to the beliefs of 
the Wayward Elves (Rhovanion Region Guide, page 86).
Year’s End
This is a quiet year, although heroes who successfully 
hunted the white deer and stay at Thranduil’s Halls for 
their Fellowship phase can treat it as a Sanctuary for the 
purposes of recovering Hit Dice.
- Year 2950 -
for heroes of level 5 or 6
Events
At the instigation of Gandalf, the Elvenking dispatches 
scouts to the Mountains of Mirkwood. Their mission 
is to search for records or documents that might have 
been hidden there when the Necromancer fled from Dol 
Guldur. The scouts find nothing, but report that evil things 
are stirring in the dark.
The strength of the Orcs at Fenbridge Castle grows. If 
Mogdred was welcomed into the Woodmen in 2948, then 
his men stop the worst attacks. Otherwise, settlements 
along the Black Tarn and the East Bight are attacked by 
Orcs this year. At the suggestion of Gandalf, Radagast 
travels to Dol Guldur. See Secrets Buried, below.
The Woodmen continue to hunt for the ’Bloody Ghost’. 
Some mutter darkly about Mogdred’s men, and blame 
them for the evil.
A few of the younger Elves at a feast in the Bower 
(Rhovanion Region Guide, page 82) decide to punish the 
Bardings for their trespassing. When a group of foresters 
next enter the woods, the Elves harass and ensorcel them, 
weaving spells around the mortals. The foresters lose their 
way and wander into the depths of the forest. Three are 
met by friendlier Elves and guided back to the Elf-path, but 
another goes mad and dies.
Adventuring Phase: 
Secrets Buried
Radagast calls upon the companions for aid. If he does 
not know them already, he summons them by sending a 
talking squirrel to each of them; Radagast is friendly to all 
the birds and beasts of the forest, and they do his errands. 
His furry messenger bids the Company to gather at the 
docks of Woodmen-town on Midsummer’s Day.
 
If the companions go to the meeting-place on the appointed 
day, they see a boat of strange design emerge out of the 
summer mists on the dusky river. It has a high prow 
decorated with the carved head of a bird, and low flanks 
swept back like wooden wings. A brown sail billows from 
its tall mast. Radagast stands with one hand on the tiller, 
his staff resting at his feet. He welcomes the Company on 
board.
Radagast is going to the south shore of the Black Tarn. As 
they probably know, he explains, until some years ago a 
great evil was threatening to overcome Mirkwood. Then, 
a council of the wise and powerful chose to act and evil 
was banished. 
But even the wise sometimes fail to see the end of all things, 
and something rotten might have been left to fester in the 
forest. Will the companions help him to make sure that a 
deeper shadow doesn’t rise to take the place of the first?
To the Black Tarn
The journey takes only one day (and as such does not 
provoke any Journey Events). The boat seems much too 
5
2

--- PAGE 21 ---
21
big for the narrow river, but it somehow passes through 
even the thickest parts of the forest without getting caught, 
as if the branches parted overhead to let the mast and 
sails go by. Sometimes, the heroes hear bubbling laughter 
or glimpse the shape of a woman in the water – one of the 
River-maidens is nearby (Rhovanion Region Guide, page 
100).
At the Black Tarn, Radagast and the Company disembark 
on the south shore of the lake, far from the eyes of the 
villagers of Black Tarn Hall. The Wizard leaves the 
companions and climbs a green hillock rising above 
the lakefront some distance away. When he reaches the 
top, he is met there by a tall, dark-haired, dusky-skinned 
woman in a black robe. She and Radagast speak privately 
for a few moments, then the Wizard returns.
Radagast explains that the lady he has spoken to is 
another River-maiden, the eldest and most powerful. She 
has confirmed Radagast’s darkest fears - something is 
stirring in Southern Mirkwood. The companions leave the 
boat and set off marching south.
From the Black Tarn to the 
Tyrant’s Hill
The second part of the journey covers some thirty miles 
through the Narrows of the Forest. Since they are travelling 
with Radagast, the journey into Southern Mirkwood is not 
quite as forboding as it might be: the Peril Rating is 3, and 
it takes only three days of travel to reach Amon Bauglir. 
the Company will experience 1d2-1 Journey Events along 
the way.
If the men of the East Bight are allies of the Woodmen 
after 2948, then the Company may meet other travellers 
going to or coming from the new village of Sunstead. On 
the afternoon of the third day, the Company spot a tall 
tower rising above the tree-tops on a distant hill. Radagast 
explains that it is the Tyrant’s Hill, once the northernmost 
outpost of Dol Guldur. Smoke climbs from many chimneys, 
and the tower is clearly inhabited.
If Mogdred is an ally of the Woodmen at this time, then 
the Company can safely visit the tower (Rhovanion Region 
Guide, page 120). Mogdred is an unwelcoming host and 
mistrusts the Wizard, but he grudgingly allows them to 
stay. However, if Mogdred was rejected at the folk-moot 
of Rhosgobel, then the Company must sneak past the 
vigilance of the tower (this requires a group Stealth check 
against DC 12). If this fails, then Radagast decides to 
return to Rhosgobel — the evil in the hearts of these folk 
is enough of an answer for him. Whether the companions 
push on without him is up to them.
From the Tyrant’s Hill to the 
Fens of Dol Guldur
South of the Tyrant’s Hill, the journey changes dramatically. 
The Company are now in the haunted woods of Southern 
Mirkwood, where the shadow lies heavily on the forest. 
Even in midsummer, these woods are slimy and dank and 
foul.
The journey to the edge of Dol Guldur covers sixty miles 
and takes ten days, as even Radagast starts to suffer from 
the oppressing gloom and noxious vapours that rise in the 
morning and start to dissipate only by midday - the Peril 
Rating goes to 5 and they face 1d2 Journey Events (see 
below). 
When the Company enters the fens that surround the 
hill of sorcery, every companion must start making one 
Corruption check (a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw) every 
day (for the last three days of the journey). On a failure, 
they gain 1 Shadow point.
Once in the marshes, Radagast explains that the castle of 
Fenbridge lies a short distance to the east. The Fenbridge 
(Rhovanion Region Guide, page 120) is a much easier way 
through the swamp, but it is guarded by Orcs. 
The Company can choose to either risk a nasty encounter 
or to try their way through the swamps. Braving the 
swamps requires at least one hero to make a DC 20 
Wisdom (Survival) check to plot a manageable course.
2
4
The Last Good Years: 2947-2950

--- PAGE 22 ---
Mirkwood Campaign
22
Journey Events for the Fens of Dol Guldur
For most Journey Events, the normal table can be used 
without modification (or you may use Shadows in the 
Forest, page 133). But if the Loremaster wishes to use a 
custom event, a few are provided in the table below.
Into Dol Guldur 
The former fortress of the Necromancer is presented 
starting on page 120 of the Rhovanion Region Guide. In 
2950, the fortress is empty. Exploring the lower sections, 
the Company find signs that a few scavenger Orcs were 
here recently, but it seems they fell to quarrelling and 
fought each other. Radagast warns the Company not to 
stray far into the ruins – they should restrict their search 
to the High Keep. They are to look for any documents 
related to whatever the Necromancer was planning just 
before he was driven from Dol Guldur.
Simply walking into the darkness of the keep requires a DC 
15 Wisdom saving throw. Those who fail are Frightened 
until they take a short rest. Exploring the keep requires five 
successful DC 15 Intelligence (Investigation) checks. 
Journey Event
Customisation Notes
3 (An Obstacle)
The Company has blundered into a sucking sinkhole. Each hero must make a Strength 
(Athletics) check in order to free themselves. On a failure, the hero gains a level of 
Exhaustion. Regardless of success or failure, the player must choose one item that was 
lost in the bog. 
If the Company has animal companions, at least one hero must make a Wisdom 
(Animal Handling) check in order to avoid endangering it.
The heroes have Advantage if they are on Paths Both Swift and True, or Disadvantage if 
they face The Wearisome Toil of Many Leagues.
4 (In Need of Help)
As they lay down to rest one evening, the companions’ dreams are filled with the 
desperate cries of lost travellers and the captured thralls that once were housed in Dol 
Guldur. Despite their efforts, the heroes find that, even in their dreams, they cannot 
save the doomed souls.
Each hero must make a Wisdom saving throw or gain a level of Exhaustion from their 
terrible nightmares.
6 (The Wonders of 
Middle-earth)
For once, the fingers of the Sun reach into the gloom of the fens as morning comes. 
The swamp bursts into life as the many creatures that call it home greet the new day. If 
Radagast is with the heroes, he is moved to tell stories of their lives and ambitions.
If the Wizard is present, each hero automatically recovers one level of Exhaustion. 
Otherwise, use the regular rules on page 170 of the Player’s Guide.
12+ (Fly you Fools!)
The heroes are closer than they realise and have reached the outer moat of Dol Guldur. 
Dozens of grasping hands emerge from the fetid water, and each hero is automatically 
Grappled. They must make a Strength (Athletics) check to break free. Each round they 
fail to do so, they receive 6 (1d6+3) bludgeoning damage as the hands attempt to drag 
them under. Striking at the undead limbs can give another hero Advantage on their next 
check, but there are too many for strength of arms alone to defeat… the heroes must 
escape the moat.
7

--- PAGE 23 ---
23
For every successful check, the Loremaster should reveal 
one of the following clues (in order) until the completion 
of the search. 
• 
A Corpse. The Company find the corpse of an Orc, 
curled up in a corner. The brute was stabbed with a 
knife and crawled off to die. The blade is still stuck 
between the Orc’s ribs, and is of Elven make – it was 
forged in the Woodland Realm. A DC 10 Wisdom 
(Medicine) check suggests he was only killed recently 
– despite the proximity of the marshes, his body is 
relatively uncorrupted.
• 
A Puzzling Door. The Company find a heavy iron 
door deep within the keep. It is open: a successful DC 
15 Intelligence (Investigation or Riddle) check will 
reveal that its lock was picked only a short while ago, 
while at some point long before that, some mighty 
brute smashed at the door with a huge axe – the deep 
scars in the iron-shod frame bear testament to that.
• 
More Riddles. In the labyrinth of abandoned 
corridors and cells beyond the iron door, the 
Company find several scattered parchments. It is 
clear that this was once a library, and it was hastily 
abandoned. Some of the documents speak of scouting 
missions into the Vales of Anduin, and another has 
an alarmingly up-to-date description of the military 
forces of Lake-town. The majority of the documents are 
written in the Common Tongue, but some are in Elvish 
and others in the Black Speech of Mordor. Radagast 
cautions the Company against reading those scrolls.
• 
A Secret Strife. In a side room, the companions 
find another body. This time, the remains are those 
of a Man, a fellow from Lake-town by his garb. His 
cloak is caked with dried mud and blood, and his stiff 
fingers press against a gaping wound in his side that 
was made by the jagged Orc-sword that lies beside 
him. A DC 10 Intelligence (Riddle) check makes 
sequence of events clear – the human was surprised 
by the Orc, they fought, and both mortally wounded 
the other. Searching his belongings reveals a pouch of 
60 lozenge-shaped silver pennies, coins minted in the 
Woodland Realm and usually employed to deal with 
foreigners . 
• 
Black Treachery! Aha! Near the body is a grating in 
the floor, and stuffed into this grating are a handful 
of bloodstained pages. The pages are written in the 
Common Speech, and describe the Woodland Realm 
in considerable detail. They mention the guards along 
the Elf-path and Forest River, the East Gate, and the 
defences of Thranduil’s Halls. Whoever gave this 
information to the Enemy clearly had an intimate 
knowledge of the Woodland Realm…
The Last Good Years: 2947-2950

--- PAGE 24 ---
Mirkwood Campaign
24
Once the companions find the documents, Radagast 
urges them to leave immediately. On the journey home, 
he confides that their find proves that there is a traitor 
in Thranduil’s Halls. The Wizard had hoped that the 
Woodland Realm would continue to be a bastion against 
the corruption of Mirkwood, for the Elves have never 
willingly served the Enemy, but it seems that even this 
hope is lost.
Exploring the High Keep
A dark will is focused on the companions while they 
are inside the High Keep, and sooner or later they will 
feel its malevolence. While in the Keep, any natural 1 
result on the d20 means that the dark will has touched 
the character’s heart and the hero gains a point of 
Shadow.
Whenever the player achieves a natural 20 result, the 
dark will focuses on that hero. The companion must 
immediately make a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw. 
On a failure, the Loremaster should select one of the 
following effects:
• 
Terrifying Vision. The hero becomes Frightened 
until they take a long rest. If they were already 
Frightened (and were perhaps forcibly dragged 
into the High Keep), they become Stunned instead. 
• 
The Shadow of the Past. For a moment, the hero 
has a sense of the abject terror that most subjects 
of the Necromancer felt here. The companion 
gains 2 points of Shadow.
• 
Sickness. The hero develops a strange, unnatural 
fever that the curative arts cannot dispel. Until 
the hero takes a long rest, they recover only half 
the normal amount of hit points from any healing 
source.
The Secret of Dol Guldur
The spy in the Elvenking’s court is Halbrech, the 
wineseller from Lake-town (see the Rhovanion 
Region Guide, page 86). He hired a mercenary from 
Esgaroth to sneak into Dol Guldur and destroy any 
evidence connecting him to the Enemy. 
Now that the Necromancer is gone, Halbrech hopes 
to put all that behind him, also because he recently 
became a father. He would do anything to preserve 
his daughter Hanna from harm, and to maintain his 
position in Thranduil’s court (Halbrech’s dark past 
will resurface many years later - see the adventure 
Treachery in the Woods on page 87) . 
Year’s End
Radagast blesses the Company after they return from Dol 
Guldur. Any character who accompanied him into the 
black stronghold and undertakes to Heal Corruption (see 
the Player’s Guide, page 200) reduces their Shadow total 
by twice the usual amount.
5

--- PAGE 25 ---
25
The Return of the 
Shadow:
- 2951-2960 -
Evil spirits enter Dol Guldur to reclaim the fortress for their 
master. Malevolent creatures return to the forest to pledge 
their allegiance. New threats rise to menace both the 
Woodmen and the Silvan Elves as the ruined stronghold 
of Southern Mirkwood is restored to its former strength. 
- Year 2951 -
For heroes of level 5 or 6
Events
At long last, Sauron unveils his presence in Mordor, and 
commands his servants to gather in the Black Land. 
Characters with at least a permanent Shadow point or a 
total Shadow of 3 or more may experience nightmares; 
mostly visions of the Black Land, the raising of the Dark 
Tower or the Flaming Eye.
In the dead of winter, three shades enter Dol Guldur - the 
Ringwraiths have returned in Southern Mirkwood, and 
soon busy themselves with the errands their dark master 
has given them. The first wraith, the Lieutenant of Dol 
Guldur, remains to haunt its ruins and drive away any 
intruders. For many years, the wraith drives to madness 
all those who trespass into the dark stronghold. The 
second wraith, the Ghost of the Forest, travels to the 
Mountains of Mirkwood, gathering Orcs and Vampires. 
He seeks out the Werewolf of Mirkwood and informs 
it that the agony that constantly wracks its body is the 
result of Elven magic. The third wraith, the Messenger 
of Mordor, enters the Heart of Mirkwood and addresses 
the Parliament of Spiders (Rhovanion Region Guide, page 
113). To renew the ancient alliance between the Shadow 
and Shelob’s children, he brings with him five great red 
gems, cut and fashioned of old by Celebrimbor of Hollin. 
Three are consumed by the three Children of Shelob; they 
quarrel over the other two. The Ringwraith convinces 
Tyulqin the Weaver to aid him in attacking the Woodmen. 
At some time, Gollum finally leaves Mirkwood. He soon 
turns in the direction of Mordor, as if heeding a call.
Adventuring Phase: 
The Helm of Peace
Things are stirring in the dark places of the woods. The 
name of Sauron is not yet spoken aloud in the North, 
as most recognise it only as a shadow on the borders of 
The Return of the Shadow: 2951-2960

--- PAGE 26 ---
Mirkwood Campaign
26
old stories. Still, the Enemy’s power grows, and in the 
lengthening Shadow old horrors awaken. 
In the winter of 2951 the folk of the East Bight start to 
whisper of glowing lights that dance amid the long barrows 
where their ancestors lie, and of groaning voices that echo 
from the deepest tombs. The Hall of Ghosts (Rhovanion 
Region Guide, page 115) is seen twice by hunters, and the 
discovery of four dead men — killed, seemingly, by fright — 
convinces Ceawin that something must be done. 
Following the advice of seers, the chieftain of the East Bight 
decides that the dead must be honoured with a gift, and 
hires a Dwarf smith to forge a helm that commemorates 
the deeds of the Northmen of old. 
If the companions are in the East Bight or are allies of 
Ceawin (perhaps they voted in his favour at the folk-moot 
of 2948) then he may ask them to travel to Lake-town to 
collect the helm. Alternatively, if they are in Erebor, Dale 
or Lake-town, they may meet Ceawin’s representative and 
be hired to deliver the helm to the East Bight.
A Gift for the Dead
The bejewelled helm is ready by the very end of summer. It 
is a magnificent steel helmet inlaid with gold, made after 
the fashion of the Northmen. It is carved with images of 
heroes, and two golden trees grow on the cheek-guards, 
their branches twining overhead in an arch over the 
brow of the wearer. Mounted directly above the brow is a 
glittering green gem, and its crest is made of fine horsehair. 
The helm is worth a dozen gold pieces or more.
The easiest route to the East Bight from the North is the 
one currently used by merchants travelling south. Ten 
years after the death of Smaug the traffic has intensified, 
and it is not so difficult now to find a boat that navigates 
the Running River, to then take the paths that follow the 
eaves of Mirkwood to the south. The journey has a Peril 
Rating of 2, and provokes 1d2+1 Journey Events.
En route, the Company may encounter the few folk 
who dwell in the sullen valleys along the eastern edge 
of Mirkwood, like Gwina, a wandering merchant from 
Dorwinion (Rhovanion Region Guide, page 111).
The Outlaws
The helm’s journey south is watched by unfriendly eyes. A 
band of outlaws intends to ambush the Company. These 
outlaws are led by a warrior named Beldir and his lover 
Valdis (Rhovanion Region Guide, page 112). The outlaws 
use Valdis’ raven Eágbitar (‘Eyebiter’) as a spy and scout. 
If the bird finds them suitable victims, then they mount an 
ambush. Valdis has heard tell of the helm of the dead, and 
intends to steal it.
The Company’s Hunter may spot the strange behaviour of 
the bird Eágbitar with a DC 13 Wisdom (Survival) check. 
2
4

--- PAGE 27 ---
27
If this fails, the Look-out may make a DC 15 Wisdom 
(Perception) check to detect the ambush. Otherwise, the 
heroes are Surprised. Beldir’s force consists of an Outlaw 
(see the Loremaster’s Guide, pages 74-75) per hero, 
including himself (Loremasters running this adventure for 
more experienced heroes might make Beldir an Outlaw 
Chief instead a regular Outlaw). Valdis stays at the rear 
of the battle, spitting curses at the Company but only 
risking her neck if victory seems assured. Beldir spares the 
companions if they hand over the helm.
If the companions slay Beldir, Valdis escapes into the 
woods. Valdis is featured again in the tale of years in the 
entry for 2962; if Valdis is slain, her role in the campaign 
can be taken by her vengeful younger sister Valya.
Ghosts of the East Bight
The helm arrives at its destination when it is already 
autumn. An unseasonably cold wind out of the North 
has been blowing for weeks, and the land sleeps under a 
shroud of snow. Many villagers believes the sudden cold 
is a curse from the barrows, and that the gift of the helm 
is an even more urgent errand. 
Ceawin asks the Company to accompany him into the 
wood; few of his other warriors are brave to enter the 
shadow of the trees these days. The journey into the forest 
is a short one. Snow tumbles from laden branches, and 
the bare trees resemble leering skeletons or clutching 
fingers. Patches of ice seem placed with deliberate malice. 
After half an hour’s walk, the companions find one of the 
barrows of old. Ceawin sweeps away some snow to reveal 
that the mound is covered in Evermind flowers, which 
were traditionally planted on the graves of the kings of 
old. The entrance to the tomb is a small gap between the 
roots of an oak tree. Ceawin lights a torch, takes the helm 
and climbs down alone.
The companions hear his voice, but it is very distant as 
though he were many miles under the earth. He asks for 
the honoured dead of the North to bless his people, and 
thanks them for the fertile land they carved from the 
forest. He offers them this helm as a gift. Suddenly, the 
air grows intensely cold, and a sepulchral voice speaks 
in answer.
Cold be hand and heart and bone
And cold be sleep under stone:
Never more to wake on stony bed,
Never, ’til the Sun fails and the Moon is dead.
Those that hear the incantation must make a DC 15 
Wisdom saving throw or become Frightened of the 
barrow. All of Ceawin’s guards turn round and flee. 
Characters who are willing can enter the barrow, but only 
one character at a time can wriggle through the narrow 
entrance (and it is even narrower now, as if the tree-roots 
have clenched together to bar the way) 
6
The Return of the Shadow: 2951-2960

--- PAGE 28 ---
Mirkwood Campaign
28
If a character enters the dark barrow, lit only by Ceawin’s 
guttering, dropped torch, he dimly makes out a figure 
lying on a stone bier, and looming over the bier is a bony 
shadow — a Wood-wight (see Rhovanion Region Guide, 
page 138). The Wight has the helm of the dead clutched in 
its cold fingers, and is about to place it on Ceawin’s head.
If the companions fail to defeat the Wood-wight (or give 
it the opportunity to place the helm on Ceawin’s head), 
then the undead horror vanishes a moment later. Ceawin 
recovers and emerges from the tomb, now wearing the 
helm. He claims that the ’kings of old’ crowned him, and 
that the Wights will not trouble the East Bight again. In 
truth, the Wood-wight has cursed him, and Ceawin is now 
in the thrall of the dead.
If the companions rescue Ceawin from the Wood-wight, 
then the barrow collapses on top of them. Each character 
must make a DC 13 Strength check to break free, 
suffering 14 (4d6) bludgeoning damage on a failure and 
half of that on a success. Some of the heroes feel cold dead 
hands clutching at them, trying to drag them down into 
the grave. The helm is lost forever.
Year’s End
If the companions successfully delivered the helm of peace, 
then Ceawin offers land to any character without a holding 
and gives the hero permission to build a farm there.
- Year 2952 -
For heroes of level 5 or 6
Events
Duskwater, the eldest of the three River-maidens, falls 
into a trap set by the Messenger of Mordor and the Spider 
Tyulqin. The maiden is wrapped in a web that poisons her 
mind, turning her against the Woodmen. Fishing in the 
Black Tarn is especially poor this year. 
Viglund the Cruel (Rhovanion Region Guide, page 31) tries 
to seize the Forest Gate. The Beornings object, and the 
two sides clash under the forest eaves. Initially, Viglund’s 
men have the upper hand and several Beornings are slain 
or taken prisoner, but then they glimpse a bear moving 
through the woods and flee, fearing the wrath of Beorn.
A trade fair is held in Woodmen-town. Any hero owning 
a holding in or near Woodmen-town reduces the DC for a 
Holding Upkeep check by 2 until year’s end.
If Ceawin of the East Bight is under the thrall of the 
Wood-wights (see The Helm of Peace, page 25), then his 
behaviour becomes more erratic over the coming years. 
Sometimes, he slips into black rages; at other times, he 
speaks as though he is one of the Northmen who died in 
the Bight a thousand years ago. He grows increasingly 
mistrustful of the Woodmen of the Western Eaves.
Adventuring Phase: 
The Staff of the Roadwarden
If the companions are in any of the Woodmen settlements 
of Mirkwood, Bofri, son of Bofur (Rhovanion Region 
Guide, page 93) seeks them out. He has heard of their 
courage and skill, and asks for their help.
Since arriving in Mirkwood four years earlier, Bofri has 
surveyed both ends of the Old Forest Road outside the 
forest. He believes that his ancestors wound the road with 
potent spells to preserve it, and that it is still mostly intact. 
Bofri intends to travel to the Millfort, one of the three 
larger keeps the Dwarves built to protect the road, and 
ascertain how intact it is. The Millfort was built roughly 
two-fifths of the way along the road.
According to Dwarven records, the Staff of the Roadwarden, 
the traditional symbol of office for the master of the road, 
lies in the Millfort. Bofri wants to reclaim it, and needs 
brave companions to succeed.
To the Millfort 
The Company will most likely start the journey somewhere 
in the land of the Woodmen. If they are in Woodland Hall, 
Bofri leads them north-east for some sixty miles through 
Western Mirkwood and the edge of the Heart. This short 
journey has a Peril Rating of 4, and produces 1d2 Journey 
Events.
5
5

--- PAGE 29 ---
29
If the companions follow the Dusky River, or paddle along 
it, they encounter the River-maiden named Sunshadow, 
who flirts with one of the more attractive male heroes. 
Later along the journey, if the companions encounter 
danger, then Sunshadow’s sister Silverbell may appear to 
aid them.
If the companions take an overland route, then they 
may meet Geirbald Kinslayer and his brotherhood of 
outlaws (Rhovanion Region Guide, page 92). Approaching 
them in a friendly fashion allows a DC 10 Intelligence 
(Traditions) check. On a success they share news – a 
week ago, Geirbald and his men ambushed a band of 
Forest Goblins that were fleeing west. Normally when 
threatened, the Goblins of the forest head in the opposite 
direction, towards the Mountains. They must have run 
into something so scary that they decided to risk the 
Mannish lands of the west.
The Old Road
At the end of their journey through thick woods, the 
companions suddenly emerge into a leafy tunnel. “We’ve 
found it!” exclaims Bofri, and he eagerly scrabbles at the 
ground with a shovel until he uncovers cut stone. His 
fingers trace the dirt-filled runes engraved on the slab. 
“Five miles east to the Millfort from this spot. Forty-five to 
the Beacon tower, and sixty-five west to where the Westfort 
once stood! This way!” He hurries off down the overgrown 
road to the east... and then stops dead. “What’s that?” he 
exclaims, and points to the top of a nearby tree.
The characters see a web-wrapped bundle stuck to the 
upper branches. It looks like a victim of a Spider, but it’s 
much too big to be a person. 
A brave hero can make a DC 13 Strength (Athletics) check 
to climb up and cut the webbing open. A gory mess tumbles 
down and splatters on the ground below. A companion 
that braves the stench and blood can make a DC 10 
Intelligence (Nature) check to reveal that the remains are 
the partially consumed bodies of two large boars.
A Spider
The Millfort was once a Dwarven way station, a fortified 
coaching inn where travellers could rest in safety and 
recover before continuing. A forest stream flows past the 
back of the fortress, and a small mill wheel once turned 
there. Today, the mill wheel is long gone and the fort is 
entirely overgrown. The outer walls are still mostly intact, 
and the squat drum-shaped tower in the middle... has an 
absolutely gigantic Spider sleeping on it.
The biggest Spider any of the companions have ever seen is 
sprawled across the top of the tower. The monster is at least 
fifteen feet across, with its huge hairy legs dangling over 
2
2
The Return of the Shadow: 2951-2960

--- PAGE 30 ---
Mirkwood Campaign
30
the edge. A companion possessing Region-lore (Mirkwood) 
or Enemy-lore (Spiders) may invoke the Trait to be allowed 
a DC 15 Intelligence (Lore) check: success identifies the 
creature as Tauler the Hunter (Rhovanion Region Guide, 
page 132). The monstrous Spider clearly feasted on the 
boars and is now sleeping off a heavy meal, or else it is 
very much awake and watching the companions. It’s hard 
to tell with the glassy-eyes of Spiders...
Getting past Tauler
The Staff of the Roadwarden is somewhere inside the 
tower. All the company needs to do is get past the giant 
Spider…
• 
Attacking Tauler: Good luck! Tauler’s statistics 
are found in the Rhovanion Region Guide, and he is 
likely a foe beyond any of them. On the off-chance 
that the companions manage to reduce Tauler to 60 
hit points or less, he makes a great leap into the trees 
and vanishes, chittering in pain. Plans that involve 
poisoning the beast, luring it into a trap, setting it 
on fire or some other trickery might work, but won’t 
easily kill Tauler. The best the companions can hope 
to do is drive him away.
• 
Sneaking Past: Creeping past the slumbering Tauler 
requires at least half the heroes to make a DC 15 
Dexterity (Stealth) check to enter the Millfort. Further 
checks may be required to move about the fort and 
another set of checks are required to sneak past Tauler 
on the way out. A group failure awakens the Spider.
• 
Begging the Spider’s Pardon: Tauler understands 
the Common Speech, and can even speak a few 
words of it. Should a companion make a DC 15 
Intelligence (Traditions) check with Disadvantage 
the Spider will let them pass; companions with one or 
more points of Shadow do not suffer Disadvantage, 
as they discover they understand better what the 
creature says. A gift of gemstones would result in an 
automatic success - Tauler loves to consume their 
light to see their beauty wither. Do the companions 
have any precious stones?
If the companions try to get past Tauler and fail, then 
there might still be hope – they can try fleeing or else 
surrender (in which case, they can try Traditions again). 
If they sneak past, but wake the Spider up while they are 
inside, then they must somehow escape the tower with the 
monster crawling around the outside of the building!
While inside the Millfort, a successful DC 20 Intelligence 
(Investigation) check uncovers a cunningly hidden 
chest in the topmost room of the tower; inside lies the 
Roadwarden’s Staff – which Bofri is eager to claim – 
alongside several crumbling leather-bound ledgers, and 
a smaller casket of coins and gems that total 100g worth.
Year’s End
This winter is very hard; all Holding Upkeep checks have 
a +2 modifier to their DC (checks at the Black Tarn are 
made at Disadvantage), and heroes cannot choose the 
Heal Corruption undertaking.
The Roadwarden’s Staff
The magnificent staff of the roadwarden is a walking 
stick of Dwarf-make, with a shaft of polished wood 
topped with a pearl as great as a small dove’s egg. Its 
maker engraved runes of power and protection on the 
wooden shaft. A hidden compartment inside the staff 
once contained maps of the Old Forest road, but Bofri 
does not know if they are still intact.
The staff might be worth up to 20 gold pieces, maybe 
much more if sold to Dwarves. It also has three special 
benefits:
• 
The bearer of the staff has a +1 modifier to 
Embarkation and Arrival rolls (in addition to any 
other modifiers).
• 
Certain doors, supply caches and vaults associated 
with the Old Dwarf Road only open for the bearer 
of the staff.
• 
A Dwarf who bears the staff and is acknowledged 
as the Warden of the Road has Advantage on all 
audiences with other Dwarves.
7
5

--- PAGE 31 ---
31
Restoring the Old Forest Road
Bofri’s ultimate goal is to open the road to traffic once 
more, and charge a toll. Doing so would open trade 
between west and east, and perhaps attract traffic 
even from the lands of the South: the overland route 
between Dorwinion and Gondor runs too close to the 
gates of Mordor, especially now that Sauron has 
returned — opening the road would let the merchants of 
Dale go south on the Running River, then load their 
cargo onto carts and cross Mirkwood via the road (the 
Elf-path is no good for such trade, as it twists and 
winds and vanishes amid the trees).
If the companions are interested, they might join Bofri 
in his ambitious undertaking. Clearing the Old Forest 
road and rebuilding the damaged sections is a great 
endeavour that will take many years to complete. The 
deed requires the companions to dedicate at least one 
or more Fellowship phases for each of the following 
undertakings:
• 
The clearing of the forest.
• 
The recovery of the forts.
• 
The restoration of the road itself.
• 
Patrolling the woods.
• 
Sending messengers to attract trade.
Should the Company accomplish this great deed, they 
will share in the tolls collected by Bofri, giving them 
a valuable holding (rated as +1 initially, as traffic 
increases each year, it becomes a maximum of +5).
- Year 2953 -
For heroes of level 6 or 7
Events
The treachery of the River-maiden begins. The Black Tarn 
darkens and becomes choked with weeds. Woodmen 
begin to disappear and boats vanish as the corrupted 
River-maiden attacks those who stray too close to the 
water’s edge. 
The Werewolf of Mirkwood appears in the Bower and 
attacks the Elves as they make merry. If any of the 
companions spent the last Fellowship phase in the 
Woodland Realm, or have kin or holdings there, then they 
may too be victims of the Werewolf’s rampage. 
The Messenger of Mordor contacts the men of the Tyrant’s 
Hill. If Mogdred was welcomed into the Woodmen during 
the folk-moot at Rhosgobel, he refuses to listen and closes 
his doors on the black rider. However, if Mogdred was 
rejected by the Woodmen, then he listens to the wraith’s 
message, and the strength of the Tyrant’s Hill is once 
again added to that of Dol Guldur. 
In October, the Elvenking travels secretly to Rivendell, 
summoned by the White Council. If encountered on his 
way to Imladris, Thranduil pretends he is going West, to 
the Grey Havens. On his way home, the Elvenking barely 
stops along the journey, as he and his retinue of knights 
ride day and night until they reach the Forest Gate. 
Squabbles and skirmishes continue between the Beornings 
and the folk of Viglund. 
Saruman withdraws in Isengard in late October, after 
the meeting of the White Council that will prove to be the 
last. He has persuaded the Wise that the One Ring is lost 
forever, and now intends to bring his study of the Rings of 
Power to a more practical level… 
Fengel, King of Rohan, dies after a long but unpopular 
rule. He was deemed a greedy and unwise king. His only 
son, Thengel, left him to serve Gondor. Before Thengel 
returns from his self-imposed exile, Fengel’s cupbearer 
The Return of the Shadow: 2951-2960

--- PAGE 32 ---
Mirkwood Campaign
32
Lamas steals a chest of gold and other treasures from 
Edoras and escapes on the king’s favourite horse. Lamas 
rides north into Wilderland. He intends to spend his ill-
gotten loot in Lake-town. 
Turgon, the twenty-fourth Ruling Steward, dies in Gondor. 
False rumours claim that he took to his bed after Sauron 
declared, and never rose again. He is succeeded by his son 
Echtelion II. 
Adventuring Phase: 
The Beast of the Forest
Angered by the Werewolf’s attack on the Bower, King 
Thranduil dispatches his hunters. One of them, a brave 
knight named Orophal, tracks the Werewolf to its lair in 
the Mountains of Mirkwood. He is wounded in the fight, 
but slays the beast and then starts his journey home. On 
the way, he attracts an entourage of younger Elves, many 
of whom are Wayward Elves.
The companions hear tales of the triumphant return of 
the hero as they travel in the Woodland Realm. One night, 
they see campfires and lamps in the distance through the 
trees. As they investigate, they find a band of Elves feasting 
and celebrating beneath the stars. Gleaming lamps hang 
from trees, and a long white cloth laden with delicious 
food is laid over trestle tables. The horrible hame of the 
Werewolf hangs from a branch over the feast, and brave 
Orophal sits at a place of honour at the head of the table. 
Assuming the companions approach in an appropriate 
way and are not enemies of the Elves, they are invited to 
join the feast. An inebriated Orophal greets them, then 
returns to retelling the tale of his battle with the Werewolf. 
The fight left him wounded and exhausted, but now it 
is time to revel in the victory: he wields a chicken leg as 
a sword, with the remainder of the chicken standing in 
for either the Mountains of Mirkwood or the Werewolf, 
depending on which stage of the story he is currently 
drunkenly recounting. 
At the feast, the companions may hear more tales of the 
Wayward Elves, the troubles with the Barding foresters 
and gossip from Thranduil’s court. 
The Coming of the Beast
Suddenly, Orophal points into the darkness beyond 
the edge of the clearing in horror. “Those eyes!” The 
companions see a pair of huge glowing-red eyes. Beneath 
them, the firelight glints off a row of wickedly sharp teeth.
“It cannot be!” says Orophal. “I killed you already”. He 
fumbles for his sword, but he is too slow – a huge shape 
leaps out of the darkness and bounds across the feasting 
table. It crashes into Orophal, sinks its teeth into his 
sword-arm, then flings him far across the clearing to 
smash into the bole of a beech tree.
The Werewolf has returned. For an instant, as the beast 
stands beneath the skin hanging from the tree overhead, 
the companions clearly see that both creatures are 
identical. Orophal did kill the Werewolf, but somehow it 
didn’t stay dead.
Few of the Elves at the feast are especially talented fighters, 
so it is up to the companions to face the Werewolf. 
Fortunately, the beast furiously turns to smash the lamps 
hanging from the trees, giving the characters two options: 
do they ready their defenses at the table (heroes that climb 
on the tables gain Advantage, or the tables can be turned 
upright to provide three-quarters cover) OR attack the 
Werewolf before he destroys all the lamps and plunges the 
clearing into pitch darkness? 
4

--- PAGE 33 ---
33
If the Werewolf destroys the lamps, they must fight in 
darkness for 1d3+1 rounds until one of the Elves rekindles 
a lamp to provide dim light for the area.
The statistics for the Werewolf of Mirkwood are found 
on page 113 of the Loremaster’s Guide. If reduced to 0 
hit points, it abandons its current wolf-body to possess 
another… the heroes have earned only a brief respite.
After the Battle
Orophal is grievously injured. A successful DC 15 
Wisdom (Medicine) check ensures that his spirit does 
not slip away to the Halls of Mandos. The Werewolf 
continues to stalk the companions as they make their way 
to the palace of Thranduil.
At the Halls, the companions find safety behind their magic 
doors. Outside, they hear the beast howling and clawing 
at the gates of the Elvenking’s palace, but Dwarf-wrought 
stone wound round with Elven spells can withstand the 
fell strength of the Werewolf of Mirkwood. After several 
hours, the beast departs. Thranduil’s scouts follow it 
through the forest, and discover that it slips away to the 
south-west across the Elf-path.
The Elves are confused – some wonder if Orophal lied or 
was mistaken when he spoke of slaying the Werewolf, 
others wonder if the beast has somehow spawned more 
of its kind. Others fear that Sauron, secure in his place of 
power, has created some new race of monsters to harass 
the Free Peoples.
Thranduil decides that more information is needed about 
the beast. Orophal found the beast’s lair in the Mountains 
of Mirkwood – perhaps there are clues hidden there about 
the nature of the Werewolf. Orophal is too wounded to 
travel, but can tell the companions exactly where he found 
the beast’s lair. Otherwise, finding it requires three DC 15 
New Fellowship Phase Undertaking: Search for Answers
If the companions are spending a Fellowship phase at a location with an appropriate source of learning, be it a 
collection of scrolls of lore and song, a treasury of books and tablets, or a wise man or council of elders, they may 
choose this undertaking and research an obscure topic. You must specify the subject of your search. You may elect to 
make a DC 15 Intelligence (History or Lore, as appropriate) check before rolling on the following table. If you are 
successful, roll with Advantage. If you fail, roll with Disadvantage. If you choose not to make the check, just roll 
1d20 and consult the table below:
1. Forbidden Knowledge. Your curiosity has had the best 
of you, and pushed you to crave secrets that were best left 
uncovered — gain 1 Shadow point.
2-6. Nothing Useful. You have spent days and nights 
pouring over dusty books and crumbling parchments or 
holding forth with old dotards.
7-12. Scarce Information. The Loremaster will provide 
at least one useful element of information about your 
subject.
13-15. Precious Information. The Loremaster must 
provide two useful elements of information about the 
researched subject.
16-17. A Mystery Revealed. You have uncovered 
something substantial — the Loremaster must provide 
two useful elements of information. Furthermore, once 
in the next Adventuring phase you can recall your time 
spent in the halls of wisdom to gain Inspiration.
 
18-19. Great Secrets. You have discovered everything 
that was possible to find about your subject in the place 
that you have been making your research. During 
the next Adventuring phase, the first time you fail an 
Intelligence check, you can use your knowledge gained 
here to allow a second attempt.
20. Favourable Information. You may either select A 
Mystery Revealed, or roll again.
6
The Return of the Shadow: 2951-2960

--- PAGE 34 ---
Mirkwood Campaign
34
successes at either Investigation or Survival. Each failed 
roll invites attention from the denizens of the mountains 
(Forest Goblins, Orcs, Spiders, Vampires or Wargs). The 
Peril Rating of the journey is 5 and the heroes will face 
1d2 Journey Events.
The Lair of the Beast
Eventually, the companions come to the network of 
bonestrewn caves where the Werewolf makes its lair. A 
cruel Loremaster may add Orc sentries, lesser Hounds of 
Sauron or Wargs to the vicinity of the lair. Entering the 
dark tunnels, it seems that the Werewolf is not at home – 
the foul smell of rotting flesh and animal musk is strong, 
but not overpowering. 
If they dare descend into the deepest caverns, the 
companions might find something strange. A DC 10 
Intelligence (Investigation) check finds the shattered 
7
Secrets of the Lamp
The making of the shining crystals at the heart of the 
two Lamps of Amon Lanc is lost to history. Perhaps 
Fëanor made them in the depths of time, or some student 
of his created them in homage to his master’s work. The 
crystals were a tribute to the light of the Two Trees of 
Valinor as they shone in the first days of the world, 
bright and hopeful and unmarred.
Many long centuries later, Celebrimbor of Hollin 
wrought the crystals into two lamps, with the help of 
Ormal the Lampmaker. After the destruction of Eregion 
by the armies of Sauron, Ormal carried the two lamps out 
of the ruin. He brought them over the Misty Mountains 
to Amon Lanc, where King Oropher hung them in a 
place of honour above his gates. There the lamps hung for 
more than three thousand years, until the Shadow first 
descended on the forest.
When Thranduil decided to abandon the naked hill to 
move his capital north, the lamps were escorted by a 
company of picked Elven warriors as one of the treasures 
of the Realm. On the way, they were ambushed by 
countless Spiders, and all were slain. The lamps were 
lost. Thranduil assumed that both were destroyed by the 
great Spiders, for it is said that the unhappy children of 
Ungoliant consume gems and jewels as a lesser Spider 
sucks the juices from its prey. In truth, none of the 
Spiders could endure the light of the lamps, even though 
they hungered for the beauty and power within.
 
In the end, the Spiders gave the lamps to the Necromancer, 
who locked them away. Sauron intended to corrupt the 
lamps, or at least to hide them away forever from the 
Elves.
When Gandalf entered Dol Guldur in the year 2063, he 
found one of the lamps, intact. He recognised its power, 
and carried it out of the dungeon with him. This lamp he 
entrusted to the young Woodman Balthi, who had guided 
him through the forest.
Now, it is a curious thing that Gandalf never told 
the Elves of his discovery. He told the Woodmen to 
place the lamp inside a glass case, hiding its shape but 
letting its radiance burn forth. For fifty generations, 
the lamp has hung from the rafters in the Great House 
of Woodmentown, and only the Wizards and a few 
descendants of Balthi know about its true origins.
The Werewolf
In 2460, Sauron returned to Dol Guldur and sought ways 
to increase his power. His servants found a slumbering 
spirit from the Elder Days. Long ago, the Elves blasted 
the spirit with beams of light, wounding it and causing it 
to flee to the dark caverns under Mirkwood to nurse its 
wounds. Sauron convinced the spirit to serve him, first 
by threatening it with the light of the remaining lamp, 
and then by giving the spirit the lamp to destroy. The 
Werewolf was braver than the Spiders – it endured the 
agony of the light because its hatred was stronger.
The other lamp remains hidden in plain sight in 
Woodmen-town, and the glimmer of its light continues to 
torment the Werewolf…

--- PAGE 35 ---
35
remains of an ancient Elven lamp. The lamp must have 
been of astounding craftsmanship, and was wrought 
of the finest materials. A companion with Elven-lore or 
Ancient Lore may make a DC 15 Intelligence (Lore) 
check: a success evokes the days of Amon Lanc and the 
brightness of the two glorious lamps – one gold, and one 
silver – that once hung outside the doors of the fortress. 
They were made by Celebrimbor and the Wood-elf Ormal 
(Rhovanion Region Guide, page 88) in the depths of time.
The lamp was clearly the focus of the Werewolf’s frenzied 
hate over many centuries. It has gnawed on the lamp, and 
hurled it against the  walls, clawed at it, dropped it from 
a height, ripped it to pieces and shattered the enchanted 
glass that once fuelled its light. 
Looking at the ruined lamp, the Company can sense that 
this artefact was hated by the beast as much as anything 
has ever been hated in all of Middle-earth.
Return to the Halls
If they leave the lair of the Werewolf alive, the companions 
can return to the Halls of the  Elvenking. On their journey 
home, they hear the distant roaring of the Werewolf of 
Mirkwood, and may even glimpse the monster if they are 
unlucky.
Stern Loremasters may require another journey to reach 
the safety of the Halls; the Peril Rating and number of 
events are the same as the journey to the mountains.
Thranduil recognises their description of the lamp. It must 
surely be one of the two that once hung from the doors 
of Amon Lanc, but were lost long ago. He suggests the 
Company consult with Ormal the Lampmaker (Rhovanion 
Region Guide, page 88) to learn more. If the companions 
do so, they might learn the history of the lamp (see also 
Year’s End below).
Year’s End
Elven companions who have met Ormal may study with 
him, either choosing the Study with the Lampmaker 
undertaking (Rhovanion Region Guide, page 89) or by 
choosing the new undertaking Search for Answers (see 
page 33).
- Year 2954 -
For heroes of level 6 or 7
Events
Maghaz the Orc-captain obeys the commands of the 
Messenger of Mordor, and sends Orcs to reoccupy Dol 
Guldur, previously inhabited only by the Ringwraiths and 
the spirits of the dead. Maghaz himself remains at Fenbridge 
Castle, preferring to retain some independence instead of 
becoming a minion of the Lieutenant of Dol Guldur.
Orcs, Wargs and Vampires are drawn to Dol Guldur 
this year. Many leave their lairs in the Mountains of 
Mirkwood and travel south. They skirt around the Spider-
haunted lands in the Heart of Mirkwood, and so enter the 
Woodmen settlements in the Western Eaves and along the 
Dusky River. The River-maidens help the Woodmen where 
they can, but their eldest sister intervenes and tells them 
to flee and hide rather than stand and fight.
Black rain falls over much of southern Mirkwood, tainted 
with soot and ash from Mount Doom. Where it falls, it stains 
the leaves black. The shadow in the south deepens. Most of 
the locations in Southern Mirkwood are now considered 
to be blighted places. The foul rain hastens the corruption 
of the Black Tarn. Over the year, the eastern portion of the 
lake is choked with strangling weeds and slime.
Two young hunters from Black Tarn Hall return from 
a frog-hunting expedition along the lake’s perilous 
northeastern shore, carrying with them four handfuls 
of gold. They entered an ancient cairn in the forest and 
found there some forgotten gold. They dared only take 
a double handful apiece, lest they anger the ghosts that 
they fear live there. Despite their best efforts, the two 
hunters are unable to find the ruin again. Tales of gold in 
the wood draw some of the greedier Woodmen to explore 
the dangerous area on the edge of the Heart of Mirkwood. 
One such Woodman, a famed bowman named Hunald, 
disappears in the forest. No sign of him is found, and it is 
assumed that he has perished.
A shaft in the tin mine at Mountain Hall collapses, burying 
several miners. The mountain-folk  blame meddling Goblins.
4
6
The Return of the Shadow: 2951-2960

--- PAGE 36 ---
Mirkwood Campaign
36
In Mordor, Mount Doom erupts. The earthquake is felt as 
far north as Rhosgobel, although there it is felt only as a 
slight shaking.
Adventuring Phase: 
The Lost Path
Since settlers came to the East Bight, there has been more 
traffic through the woods of the Narrows of the Forest. 
Travellers take shortcuts across the area instead of making 
the long journey around the south end or going north. 
While Dol Guldur was empty and silent, the paths were 
relatively safe, but now things have changed.
If Mogdred was rejected at the folk-moot at Rhosgobel, then 
it is his men who cause most of the trouble. If Mogdred 
is allied with the Woodmen, then the larger problem is 
caused by Wood-wights instead. 
If the companions are allies of the Woodmen of Rhosgobel, 
or are known to Ceawin the Generous, then they may be 
asked to help find a new route across the Narrows of the 
Forest. If they are friends of the Woodland Realm, then King 
Thranduil may send them south to explore the area and 
determine the nature of the growing Shadow in Dol Guldur.
The Company’s task is to find a path that runs from Black 
Tarn Hall to the East Bight. They may begin their mission 
at either side of the Narrows of the Forest; the encounters 
below assume they start at Black Tarn Hall, guests of 
Amaleoda the shieldmaiden; her village is located on the 
north-western shore of the lake, where the Dusky River 
enters the Black Tarn.
Crossing the Swamps
The lands around the Black Tarn have grown treacherous. 
The companions face a perilous march through the fens, 
where the soggy, muddy ground conceals hidden tree-roots 
and many serpents. Thick greenish fogs wrap around the 
trees. To find a safe path in order to start their journey, 
the Guide must make a DC 15 Wisdom (Survival) check 
with Disadvantage. A failure leads to Dark Signs and Evil 
Portents (see page 167 of the Player’s Guide) as an automatic 
result on the Embarkation Table. A failure with a 1 on the 
d20 means that the company is lost. They must wander for 
at least a day before the Guide can make another attempt.
While wandering in the swamps, one member of the 
Company sees a beautiful dark-haired woman slipping 
through the trees, clad in a grey corslet of armour that 
glitters like fish-scales. If the companions are not lost, 
then she simply seems to be watching them as they travel 
through her realm. However, if the companions are 
wandering aimlessly, then the woman approaches them.
She introduces herself as Duskwater (any Woodman, or a 
character who possesses the Trait Region-lore (Mirkwood) 
5

--- PAGE 37 ---
37
or makes a DC 15 Intelligence (Lore) check, recognises 
this as the name of the eldest River-maiden). Duskwater 
offers to guide the Company through the swamps, either 
to Black Tarn Hall or across the swamps into the Narrows.
Duskwater is under the spell of Tyulqin the Weaver 
(Rhovanion Region Guide, page 134), but her offer is an 
honest one – she is curious, and helps the Company in 
order to allay suspicion. If the Company meets her, either 
an active or passive Perception check against DC 20 
(DC 15 if the hero has the Trait Keen-eyed ) means the 
companion notices that what appeared to be fish-scales 
on her corslet of armour is actually a lattice of thousands 
of fine threads, rippling like gossamer.
Exploring the Woods
The companions need to find a safe path through the forest, 
one that can be followed not only by other adventurers and 
travel-hardened Woodmen, but also by merchants leading 
baggage ponies or fat traders from Dale. This journey has 
a Peril Rating of 4, and will have 1d2+1 Journey Events, 
but making progress will require the Scouts to find a way 
through the forest.
To this end, the Scout must succeed in at a DC 10 
Intelligence (Investigation) check each day. If the check 
fails, the companions haven’t found a suitable route 
yet. On a success, they find a barely adequate path, not 
enough for their needs; if the Scout succeeds by 5 or more 
they find an unusually easy route and make progress that 
day, possibly triggering a Journey Event. Once only one 
Journey Event remains go onto the Valley of Illusion.
Valley of Illusion
When it is time to resolve the last Journey Event, have 
the Scout make an Investigation check. On any result, 
the Company comes upon what must be an old Elf-road 
running through the wood. Following it, they are led into 
a silent, high-sided valley. The forests on either side are 
thick with dark firs, but the valley floor is remarkably 
clear and smooth. This path is an ideal road through the 
wood. Occasionally the heroes must brush aside small 
spider webs, but there are no monsters.
After a few minutes’ walk, the companions come to a spot 
where the valley branches in two. One spur goes off north, 
towards the Mountains of Mirkwood, where they can 
hear a familiar voice shouting for help. A huge Spiderweb 
stretches across the mouth of the valley, and caught like a 
fly in the web is… well, the companions see whoever they 
are most likely to try to save. 
They might see an important patron, like Radagast or 
Thranduil. They might see a trusted friend, a loved one, or 
even a family member caught in the web. This is an illusion 
woven by the great Spider Tyulqin, whose evil magic has 
caught the Company. She is a clever huntress – whatever 
illusion she creates is a plausible one. She will choose a 
victim who could end up in a web in Mirkwood, so the 
companions are not going to come across the Steward of 
Gondor or Lobelia Sackville-Baggins trussed up in a web 
(howsoever much she might deserve it).
The prisoner is tightly wrapped in webs. To free the 
prisoner, the companions have to climb up onto the 
web and cut the sticky strands. At least, that’s what they 
think they are doing – in reality, they are walking up to a 
thick black web and wrapping themselves in its grasping 
strands. Characters that are caught in the web become 
Restrained (Escape DC 15) but cannot make an attempt to 
break free until the illusion is dispelled (see Breaking the 
Spell, below). Ensorcelled heroes believe they are working 
to free the prisoner.
A hero who is free and unaffected by the illusion may attack 
the webbing in order to give another hero Advantage on 
their escape attempt.
Breaking the Spell
If a player smells a rat, allow a DC 15 Wisdom (Insight) 
check. On a success, the companion perceives that 
something is wrong about the situation, and can use 
their action to make a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw. A 
ensorcelled hero who rolls a natural 20 on any ability 
check may make a saving throw (as above) to perceive the 
illusion as well.
Once a character sees through the illusion, he finds that 
he is covered in an exceedingly fine black Spider-web, 
so fragile and faint that he brushed through it without 
noticing. Further, the other members of the companions 
are similarly covered. A hero can use her action to break 
the webbing on another hero, automatically ending the 
illusion for them.
5
7
2
The Return of the Shadow: 2951-2960

--- PAGE 38 ---
Mirkwood Campaign
38
Shadow of the Spider
Once all her victims are trapped, or once the companions 
discover the illusion, then Tyulqin reveals herself. She 
lets the illusion melt away, and the characters see a 
huge many-eyed Spider sitting at the top of the ravine 
far overhead. She begins to crawl slowly down the wall. 
Droplets of venom drool from her fangs and hiss upon the 
ground.
Killing Tyulqin is virtually impossible – she flees if 
reduced to half her hit points or less (Loremasters might 
still award XP for defeating her). She recently ate, so she 
is slow and sleepy, moving at half her normal speed. 
It takes her six rounds to lazily crawl down the wall, 
though she will hasten if the companions try shooting 
her with arrows. She may also choose to Mesmerise a 
troublesome archer.
Once the companions are free of the illusion, they discover 
that the smooth, safe Elf-road was actually a tangled 
trap, and that they are not where they thought they are. 
They are now lost in the forest, and must find their way 
back with a successful DC 20 Wisdom (Survival) check. 
Failure means they are lost in the woods for another day, 
stalked by dread Tyulqin.
The Far End of the Forest
Once the companions leave the Spider’s realm, they find 
themselves in a wilderness of thorns and fir trees. The 
companions must plot a new journey, with a Peril Rating 
of 4 and 1d2 Journey Events. Once they cut their way free 
of the tangle of the trees, they arrive in a region of the 
forest where the trunks are more widely spaced. They have 
reached the fringes of the East Bight, a land that was once 
cleared by the axes of the Northmen. 
The trees have since reclaimed the territory, but are not as 
closely packed as they once were. Soon, they begin to spot 
rubble and fallen stones amid the tree-roots. There was 
a town here, once, long ago. The air is foul-smelling and 
foetid, and many-legged things scuttle over the broken 
white stones.
As the companions pass through the area, they come 
upon one building that is entirely intact. It is a longhouse 
of wood and stone, seemingly unmarked by the passage of 
time. The doors are closed, but do not appear to be locked. 
A successful DC 10 Intelligence (Lore) check counsels 
caution, and recalls tales of the Hall of Ghosts (Rhovanion 
Region Guide, page 115). The door of the hall is marked 
with runes used by the Woodmen and their Beorning kin, 
and read ’O CHILD OF OAK, STAND YET AGAINST THE 
STORM’.
The Silent Hall
If a character opens the door of the longhouse and steps 
through, he is trapped. The door shuts tight behind him, 
and no force can pry it open again. Inside, the hall is 
empty and dark, but the companion immediately sees a 
huge bearded axe-head whistling towards him!
If the companions failed to protect Ceawin from the 
Woodwight in The Helm of Peace (page 25), then the 
character who entered the Hall of Ghosts catches a 
glimpse of the chieftain of the East Bight wielding the axe, 
wearing the jewelled helm made by the Dwarves: the spirit 
haunting him goes abroad at night, wearing the lord’s 
face (this vision in the Hall of Ghosts may encourage the 
Company to seek a cure for Ceawin). If the companions 
successfully protected Ceawin, then the attacker in the 
Hall of Ghosts is an esteemed ancestor of the Woodmen, 
stirred by Ceawin’s gift.
The ghost in the hall seeks to test the courage of the 
companion – if the trapped hero does not attempt to 
dodge the blow, but tries to stop the attack by addressing 
the spirit or otherwise accepts the threat of a wound, then 
the ghost will reward him. If the character flinches or tries 
to dodge, the ghost’s intent is murderous. 
The axe blow lands on the companion according to the 
following stats. If the hero stands unflinching, the ghost 
has Advantage on the attack.
Spectral Axe. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 5 ft. 
Hit: 12 (2d6+5) necrotic damage.  The target must succeed 
on a DC 10 Constitution saving throw or its hit point 
maximum is reduced by an amount equal to the damage 
taken. This reduction lasts until the creature finishes a 
long rest. The target dies if this effect reduces its hit point 
maximum to 0.
If the hero stood firm, the ghost delivers a single blow 
and then fades away. As the spirit recedes, the companion 
7
5
3

--- PAGE 39 ---
39
has a clear vision of a lonely oak tree in the East Bight. 
Buried amid the roots of that tree is an ancient chest, 
containing gold and precious stones worth 100g and an 
iron crown, once worn by the Chieftain of the Northmen 
of Rhovanion.
If the hero resisted, then it makes one more attack and 
then fades away, and grants no vision.
Foes Near at Hand
Another challenge awaits on the edge of the forest. 
Someone lies in ambush: the nature of the ambushers 
depends on the current circumstances in Mirkwood:
• 
If Mogdred is an enemy of the Woodmen, then the 
attackers are warriors bearing the symbol of Amon 
Bauglir,  the Tyrant’s Hill. There are two Servants of 
Tyrant’s Hill (see page 12) and one Savage Hound (see 
page 13) for each hero. One of the brigand women 
pretends to be an injured and lost traveller, and when 
the companions move to help her, the other brigands 
ambush them.
• 
Otherwise, the attackers are a band of Orc Soldiers 
(two for each hero, Loremaster’s Guide, page 103) 
from Fenbridge Castle, led by a Hill-Troll (Loremaster’s 
Guide, page 108). The Orcs are under orders to attack 
anyone passing through the Narrows of the Forest. 
The ambush begins with the Hill-Troll toppling a tree 
(+3 to hit, as a line 30 ft long and 5 ft wide, 13 (3d6+3) 
bludgeoning damage) on top of the company.
After the Journey
If the companions successfully find a safe path through 
the Narrows, then either Ceawin or Amaleoda rewards 
them with 60s each.
Year’s End
The following winter is the worst in living memory. The DC 
for all Holding Upkeep checks is raised by 2, and many 
old and sick perish in the biting cold.
- Year 2955 - 
For heroes of level 6 or 7
Events
Marsh-dwellers are seen in the Black Tarn along the 
eastern shore. The cryptic creatures arrive early in the 
spring.
If Ceawin is possessed, then the lord of the East Bight 
becomes even stranger. He sends several of his trusted 
men into exile for plotting against him. They end up 
joining with the outlaws of Geirbald Kinslayer (Rhovanion 
Region Guide, page 89).
The quarrel between the Beornings and the followers 
of Viglund is renewed when some of Viglund’s men 
are attacked by an unseen bowman. They blame the 
Beornings; in truth, the attacker was a mischievous Elf of 
the woods.
The bitter winter of the last year struck Dorwinion 
especially hard, and many of the vineyards of that land are 
blighted. The coming grape harvest will be poor indeed. 
Thranduil’s wine merchant Halbrech makes it known that 
he seeks to purchase wine from the southlands if none can 
be found in the North.
Adventuring Phase: 
Treacherous Waters
Ever since 2952, the River-maiden Duskwater has been in 
the thrall of Dol Guldur. Her treachery grows more evident 
this year. This adventure takes place either around the 
Black Tarn or anywhere along the Dusky River.
This episode can be run in one of two ways: the 
simplest approach is to have the adventure befall to 
the Company as they travel along the Dusky River on a 
boat. Alternatively, companions might be hired to find 
a missing boat, or better yet, have someone important 
to them (a friend, a kinsman, a lover, a child) be on that 
boat when it vanishes.
5
6
The Return of the Shadow: 2951-2960

--- PAGE 40 ---
Mirkwood Campaign
40
The River Bore
The characters are travelling on the dark waters of 
the Dusky River on a little boat, in company of some 
Woodmen. They are going south, in the direction of the 
Black Tarn. The stream is fast-flowing where it is not 
choked with black weeds, and the sharp-fingered branches 
of the trees always seem to hang down just at eye-level, 
but the Woodmen know this river well. It is their friend, 
their shield against the Spiders, and their road through 
the dark woods. One of the Woodmen glimpses a pale 
slim form in the waters, and smiles – the River-maidens 
are nearby, watching over the boat.
And then something strikes the boat hard from below. 
Cargo jolts free, poles are wrenched from hands, and 
everyone falls about in disarray. Suddenly, the river 
seems to seize the boat and carry it away downstream. 
Faster and faster goes the boat, as if it had grown wings. 
The waters whirl and churn – anyone jumping into the 
river would surely be swept away and likely perish.
The boat thunders downstream, moving with terrifying 
speed. Winds howl so loud that the passengers cannot 
speak, while the spray blinds them so that all they can do is 
hang on for dear life. Anyone on board must pass a DC 15 
Strength (Athletics) check or gain a level of Exhaustion.
Suddenly, the boat plunges into the forest along one of 
the many narrow streams that head east into the Heart 
of Mirkwood. The boat smashes through branches and 
skips over rocks. From the river, the companions hear the 
sound of cackling laughter.
Lost in the Sea of Trees
When the boat finally stops its mad journey, the 
companions have no idea how far they travelled or exactly 
where they are. The boat has smashed its frame against 
the stony bottom of a shallow part of the stream, deep into 
a tangled part of the forest.
Only one way seems obvious, to follow the river 
downstream, but that is easier said than done – between 
marshy ground, the icy-cold water, serpents and leeches, 
and the tangle of trees, even following a clear route is 
hard. Also, that river twisted and bucked like a dying 
snake. There might be a more direct route back to the 
Western Eaves if the companions cut through the forest.
• 
Following the river is a journey of some 40 miles, 
which is at least five days travel through the densest 
part of Mirkwood. Such a journey has a Peril Rating 
of 4 and produces 1d2 Journey Events.
• 
The most direct route through the forest takes only 
three days. However, the Company’s Scout must make 
a successful DC 20 Intelligence (Investigation) 
check each day if the companions are to make any 
progress in the right direction. Any day without 
progress triggers a Journey Event.
• 
The group is entirely without provisions. Each day, 
the Hunter must make a DC 15 Wisdom (Survival) 
check to find fish, roots and edible berries. A failure 
causes each hero to gain a level of Exhaustion and a 
point of Shadow.
Other Passengers
A cruel Loremaster may choose to inflict a few other 
Woodmen on the Company as travelling companions on 
the boat.
Baldac: A hardened hunter with little attachment to 
his fellow travellers. Baldac advocates leaving the 
weaker members of the Company behind, so that those 
strong enough to survive are not slowed down by them.
Widuric: A middle-aged trader and experienced 
boatsman, Widuric is shocked by the strange events of 
the day. In all his years, he has never seen anything 
like it. Mirkwood is dangerous, yes, but the river — 
the river has always been their friend.
Amaswinta: Young and brash, she dreams of being an 
adventurer and a shieldmaiden. She is brave, but too 
impulsive and quick to act.
Gudeliva: Very old for one of the folk of the Wood, 
Gudeliva has buried a husband, four sons and six 
grandchildren. All that remains to her is her daughter 
Amaleoda, who is one of the founders of Black Tarn 
Hall.
5
7

--- PAGE 41 ---
41
Tracking the Lost Boat
If the companions were not aboard the bewitched boat, 
then they must find the lost travellers. This means 
following their route up the nameless forest stream 
(using the rules above), finding the wreck of the boat (a 
DC 20 Intelligence (Investigation) check), and then 
discovering that the lost travellers decided (or were forced 
by some horror – the companions find the tracks of some 
huge beast in the mud) to cut through the forest (a DC 10 
Intelligence (Riddle) check to deduce their reasoning 
and then Investigation checks as above to retrace their 
steps). 
Hungry Spiders
Being lost and hungry is the least of the dangers of 
Mirkwood. The Company is in the Heart of Mirkwood, 
and it is here that Spiders dwell.
• 
If the companions were on the boat, then they are 
ambushed by Spiders as they make their way home. 
There are two Attercops (the Loremaster’s Guide, page 
105) for every companion, plus one Hunter Spider 
(Rhovanion Region Guide, page 136) per hero.
• 
If the companions are searching for the missing 
travellers, then they find signs that the Spiders caught 
them and dragged them away. Searching the woods, 
they find the prisoners wrapped up in webs and 
hanging from trees. Strangely, the Spiders have not 
eaten a single victim.
If the companions are able to listen to the Spider’s 
chittering language, it is possible that they were able to 
grasp some information.
A successful DC 13 Intelligence (Riddle) check indicates 
that the Spiders intended to carry their prisoners off into 
the Heart of Mirkwood to feed them to a bigger Spider, the 
“Mother of All” (heroes with one or more points of Shadow 
succeed at the Riddle roll automatically). Anyone with 
Region-lore (Mirkwood) or Enemy-lore (Spiders) can guess 
that they mean the fabled horror Sarqin (Rhovanion 
Region Guide, page 132).
Sorrow of the Maidens
After rescuing the prisoners, or after having saved 
themselves from the Spiders, the companions come to a 
marshy area – they will eventually discover they are very 
close to the northern shore of the Black Tarn. Here they spy 
misshapen creatures sneaking in the shadow of the willow 
trees (Marsh-dwellers, see Rhovanion Region Guide page 
136) but the strange creatures flee instead of attacking. 
Then, a slim figure emerges from the waters and beckon 
to them. She is clearly one of the River-maidens, but she is 
too far away and the mists are too thick to tell which one 
she is.
7
5
5
The Return of the Shadow: 2951-2960

--- PAGE 42 ---
Mirkwood Campaign
42
The Maiden does not speak to the Company, but leads 
them through the trees to an eerie, moss-covered cairn. 
She points to where a hole opens on the side of the 
mound of stones, revealing a hollow chamber. A DC 13 
Intelligence (Investigation) check finds some golden 
coins (at least 5g per hero), similar to the ones found by 
the young Woodmen hunters near the Black Tarn in 2954.
Without a word, the Maiden slips into the water and 
vanishes, leaving the Company to puzzle out the meaning 
of her cryptic actions. Is she saying that the River-maidens’ 
mischief happened because the treasure was stolen? In 
truth, this is another cruel trick played by the corrupted
Maiden – she had no particular interest in the treasure, 
but wants the Woodmen to turn on each other or blame 
themselves for her anger.
Year’s End
In winter, news of a second Council of the North reaches 
the companions. Ambitious heroes may choose to exploit 
their renown in their area in order to gain prestige ahead 
of the council, by choosing the new Drumming up Support 
undertaking.
New Fellowship Phase Undertaking: 
Drumming Up Support
Companions may return home to call in favours and 
meet with influential people, with the goal of gaining 
popularity among their neighbours so that they can 
share the honour and prosperity of their community 
with  the high and mighty.
One time in the following Adventuring phase, the hero 
may invoke this benefit. With either lavish gifts or 
wise words from the elders, the hero ingratiates himself 
with his hosts, gaining Advantage on his Introduction 
check for that Audience. 
Furthermore, if he is successful in the Introduction, he 
is considered to have earned a +2 expectation modifier 
for the Final Audience check.
- Year 2956 -
For heroes of level 7 or 8
Events
Messengers arrive from Lake-town, with news of the 
second Council of the North that will be held there in late 
autumn. Official representatives from all the Free Folk are 
expected to attend.
The Wizard Radagast spends much of the year wandering 
the shores of the Black Tarn. Some say that he takes the 
form of a trout, and goes exploring the dark waters. 
Others tell of how he is wooing one of the River-maidens.
King Thranduil declares that he will not personally attend 
the Council of the North; other courtiers vie to be named 
his ambassador.
The quarrels between the followers of Viglund and the 
followers of Beorn grows ever more bitter. Some of the folk 
of Woodland Hall march north to aid Beorn’s men in their 
skirmishes with the slavers. Beorn himself is unwilling to 
go to war, but some of his followers are only too eager to 
attack the folk of the Northern Vales.
Adventuring Phase: 
Murder in Lake-town
This adventure takes place outside Mirkwood, in the town 
of Esgaroth. The first Council of the North took place in 
Dale ten years ago, in 2946. Held on the occasion of the 
first Gathering of Five Armies, the great feast celebrating 
the victory at the eponymous battle, the meeting saw the 
forging of alliances and friendship between the folk of the 
North. Now, those bonds are being tested.
The second council is called in Lake-town in the last days 
of November. The meeting has been moved from Dale at 
the request of King Bard. He fears that if the council is 
again held in his halls, others will claim that he is trying 
to assert his authority over the North, instead of being 
counted as an equal to the other leaders.
6

--- PAGE 43 ---
43
Gathering Clouds
King Bard of Dale announces that he will speak for the 
Bardings, King Dáin will represent the Dwarves of the 
Lonely Mountain and the Master of Lake-town will stand 
for the Men of the Lake. 
Beorn also attends in person - it is the first time he has 
been east of the forest since the Battle of Five Armies. 
Messengers sent long ago asked for envoys from both the 
Woodland Realm and the Woodmen, but their envoys are 
in question (see Companions as Envoys, overleaf). There 
is only one envoy for each of the peoples of Rhovanion, 
and only envoys may vote. Representatives from other 
folk are welcome as well, the council is willing to listen to 
the wisdom of Minas Tirith, or of the Dúnedain (or even 
practical advice from the Shire), but ultimately the folk of 
Wilderland must chart their own course.
Radagast’s absence will be noted at the Council of the 
North. He remains by the Black Tarn, spending long hours 
staring out over the murky waters. Gandalf the Grey does 
not attend either – at least, not officially. He does not sit 
on the council or appear in public, but some say the old 
man is at work behind the scenes, giving counsel to the 
various lords and nobles of the North.
King Bard in 2956
At the age of 45, Bard is considered a wise ruler, loyal to allies and generous to friends. He is very ambitious, as 
he sees the refounding of a wider kingdom of the North as Dale’s manifest destiny. Fifteen years after the death of 
Smaug, the king still holds excellent relations with the Kingdom under the Mountain, as the economies of Erebor 
and Dale are deeply interconnected - and last but not least, Bard considers Dáin Ironfoot as a personal friend. There 
is friendship also between King Bard and King Thranduil, but this sentiment is weakening on Bard’s part, as the 
memory of the Battle of Five Armies grows dim (even if the Elvenking shows less and less interest in the dealings of 
Men and Dwarves). Bard’s rule is recognised in some measure in nearby Esgaroth, especially since Bard’s marriage 
with Una of Dorwinion.
King Bard is a stern, practical man, still very tied to his previous life as a captain. Held by many to be grim and 
sometimes proud, he is universally considered to be forthright and true to his word. His queen, Una of Dorwinion, has 
given him a son, Bain, who is seven years old in 2956. Bard holds court in the Royal Palace of Dale for the most 
part of the year, when he is not visiting the nearby realms of Dwarves and Elves. 
When in Dale, he leaves his palace often to hunt in the lands west of the city. He does so in the company of his closest 
counsellors, a handful of nobles who once served in his company of archers. This group of advisers keep the king 
informed about all matters, and help him with the courtly activities, often sitting in council in his stead when matters 
of lesser importance are at hand. 
When heroes demand an audience with the King, it is most likely that they will be met by one of his advisors instead. 
A counsellor might prove more difficult to impress than the King himself, as the increasing wealth and power of these 
courtiers is pushing them to suspect all newcomers — making an enemy out of any one of them would be a bad idea, 
as Bard treasures their friendship and opinion above any other consideration.
If encountered face to face, King Bard appears as a man wise beyond his age. He is quick to recognise the worth 
of an individual, and easily befriends any Northman showing a daring temperament and an interest in military 
endeavours. By 2956, Bard is still actively trying to strengthen his realm and encourages all adventurers to come 
to Dale. He is ready to reward their deeds and use them as an example to his people.
2
The Return of the Shadow: 2951-2960

--- PAGE 44 ---
Mirkwood Campaign
44
The Council at Lake-town
The Council of the North lasts for five days, starting 
from the 25th of November. At this time, Esgaroth is 
crowded with merchants, traders and peasants from the 
neighbouring lands who come to the city for the end of the 
harvest season.
 
The envoys sent to the Council of the North meet every 
day at the Town-hall. Some of the meetings are held in 
the Justice Room, the private chamber at the west end 
of the building, but others are open to petitioners and 
messengers in the larger main hall.
The news of the coming of Beorn, the fabled skinchanger, 
the killer of Bolg son of Azog, has spread like fire through 
all the town, and a crowd assembles every morning 
outside the hall. But the real source of wonder for the 
folk of Laketown quickly becomes fair Una, the Queen 
of Dale; the streets and quays of the Town-hall’s quarter 
are thronged by men, women and children who sing 
songs to praise her beauty and grace. Even the envoys of 
the Elvenking cannot escape her exotic charm, and the 
fascination of her deep, dark eyes and dusky complexion.
Bright Days, Dark Words
Unfortunately, the council doesn’t proceed as joyously: 
weighty topics are discussed, and every issue is rehashed 
and debated over and over, but soon shadows of fear and 
doubt seem to take hold of many speakers, especially 
during the meetings held in the private chamber. The two 
strongest voices – King Bard and King Dáin – are focused 
on rebuilding their own kingdoms and are unwilling to 
take an inspiring lead. Unless the heroes speak up, the 
council accomplishes little.
Matters discussed in the great hall include:
• 
The quarrel between the Viglundings and the 
Beornings: None of the Free Folk have any liking 
for Viglund, and some argue that an alliance of the 
council members could crush the cruel slaver. King 
Bard points out that Mirkwood lies between Dale and 
Viglund’s land, and that all paths around the forest 
are perilous for an army. In the end, Beorn cuts the 
discussion short – he will not have killing in his name 
without due cause. If Viglund provokes him again, 
then he will act.
Beorn, Bard and Dáin all vote against sending an 
army against Viglund. Some whisper that Beorn is 
growing old and lazy and wonder what will happen 
when he is gone.
• 
Trade in the North: Dáin, Bard and the Master 
of Laketown spend many hours discussing trade. 
Previously, the Woodmen and Beornings had little part 
of such discussions, but now the Beornings control the 
crossings of the Anduin and the folk of the East Bight 
Companions as Envoys
Thranduil the Elvenking won’t be present at the council, so there’s room for a companion to be chosen as the envoy 
of the Woodland Realm. If no Elf in the Company volunteers, the King selects an emissary. If Ruithel is still alive 
and the Wayward Elves’ influence is unchecked, then Thranduil sends her to demand that the human trespass in the 
Woodland Realm ceases; if Ruithel is dead or if she is not aligned with the Wayward Elves, he sends his son Legolas 
Greenleaf.
The envoy of the Woodmen is elected by the Houses at a folk-moot in Woodmen-town at Midsummer. Ingomer of 
Woodland Hall chooses not to go, and Fridwald of Woodmen-town agrees that a younger candidate is needed. If 
Mogdred is part of the Woodmen he stands for the position, but his choice is not supported by many at the folk-moot 
and a companion might challenge him and be elected in his place. Ceawin of the East Bight does not propose himself 
as a candidate, but goes to the council as a representative of his own folk. If neither Mogdred or a companion stand 
for the position, a Woodman healer named Gailar goes as the envoy of the Wood.
6

--- PAGE 45 ---
45
help feed Lake-town and Dale. King Bard says that the 
fertility and growing wealth of the Dalelands shall 
bring prosperity to all, if they can defend it. He speaks 
of threats from the East, and the growing menace of 
banditry. He ends with a speech inviting folk of good 
character to come to the Dalelands, where there is 
plenty of farmland and a great need of strong arms.
During this portion of the council, there are many 
votes taken, each on a particular aspect of the trade 
agreements. If you wish to track the success of one 
folk’s ability to secure good terms, you could resolve 
this with such a vote… the three leaders of Mountain, 
Dale and Lake are on one side of the issue, and those 
of the Vales are on the other (see Influencing Envoys).
As Bard speaks, some Woodmen mutter about 
leaving the gloomy forest for the pleasant fields of the 
Dalelands.
• 
The felling of timber in the Woodland Realm: 
The Elves raise the problem of Men trespassing in the 
eastern parts of the Woodland Realm and felling trees. 
The men of Dale counter that there are no other trees 
within many miles of the Lonely Mountain because 
of the Desolation of the Dragon. Some suggest a 
compromise wherein the Elves show the foresters 
which trees are to be felled; others say that the Men 
of Dale should buy all their timber from the Elves at 
Lake-town but the folk of Dale say that they should 
not have to pay to harvest trees that are, in their eyes, 
free for all to take.
On the idea of Elven escorts for the forresters, Bard 
and the Master are against, and Dáin abstains. 
Regarding buying lumber from Lake-town, the Master 
is for (as well as the Elven envoy if not a companion) 
and Dáin is again neutral. 
• 
The settlements in the East Bight: If Ceawin was 
rejected by the Woodmen, then the council raises the 
question of the new settlements. Should they trust this 
new lord?
Bard and the Master vote yes, but Beorn and Dáin 
counsel caution. If the council is swayed to accept 
Ceawin then the Master will propose adding the lord 
to the council during the closed-door sessions in the 
Justice Hall (see below).
Influencing Envoys
Much debate is had before any decisions are made at 
the council and it is possible to sway the thoughts of the 
envoys. Before the final vote is cast on an issue, a hero 
may elect to influence one envoy.
Using the Cultural Attitudes table on page 192 of 
the Player’s Guide, determine the attitude of the envoy 
toward the hero. Then use the table below to determine 
the DC of the attribute check. Only a single attempt to 
influence each envoy may be made.
• 
Favourable: DC 10
• 
Friendly: DC 12
• 
Neutral: DC 14
• 
Unknown: DC 16
• 
Askance: DC 18
• 
Mistrustful: DC 20
Private Concerns 
Other topics are discussed in private in the Justice Room:
• 
Expanding the Council: The Master of Lake-town 
raises the suggestion of expanding the council, 
perhaps by offering a place to other Northman nobles. 
The matter is debated without conclusion.
The other members of the council are cautious. Only 
effort to sway most of the envoys will secure a new 
admission to the group.
• 
Dol Guldur: The growing Shadow in the south 
cannot be denied. King Dáin asks where the Wizards 
are, for such matters are in their purview. The council 
decides to send a message to Radagast and ask for his 
advice. After word from Saruman arrives, they extend 
the same request to him and Gandalf.
The heroes might volunteer to deliver these messages.
6
The Return of the Shadow: 2951-2960

--- PAGE 46 ---
Mirkwood Campaign
46
• 
Rumours from the South: The matter of Sauron is 
briefly discussed. Only the Elves remember the Last 
Alliance as anything other than ancient legend. For 
the Men and Dwarves, Mordor is a distant rumour 
and the Dark Lord is a bugbear from children’s stories.
Elves may try to make the mortals understand the 
threat posed by Sauron, but it is hard for any Man 
to grasp a menace that seems to belong to myth. A 
cynical councillor from Esgaroth interjects abruptly, 
“Sauron is immortal, like the Elves. What good does it 
to do us to meddle in the affairs of immortals?”
Messengers and Petitioners
Several others come before the council, hoping that the 
great lords will aid them in their goals:
• 
Mogdred: Whether or not he is part of the Woodmen, 
Mogdred approaches the council with a proposal. If 
the Old Forest Road was to be rebuilt, it would greatly 
strengthen the North. His folk have the strength and 
numbers to help Bofri the Dwarf rebuild it.
None of the other lords know of any reason to oppose 
Mogdred’s assistance. If approved, his aid allows the 
road to be reopened within ten years.
• 
Frár the Dwarf: Frár the Beardless (Rhovanion Region 
Guide, page 22) addresses the council, asking for 
help reclaiming the Greydelve. Everyone – even Dáin 
– counsels patience. The armies of the North are not 
strong enough to countenance a war against the Orcs.
Fighting an unprovoked war is unpopular and the 
heroes are unlikely to sway any leaders to publicly 
support Frár. Privately, the Dwarf may ask the heroes 
for their aid, see The Greydelve on page 77.
• 
Messengers from afar: Travellers speak to the 
council, talking of new Orc armies breeding under 
Mount Gundabad, of Wargs prowling the Vales of 
Anduin, and of strangers coming out of the East in 
ever greater numbers.
There are no votes on such distant concerns, but the 
heroes will note that the leaders of the Free Peoples 
are concerned by such evil rumours.
• 
Drustan of Isengard: On the last day of the council, 
a messenger arrives on a magnificent white horse. He 
is a swarthy Man with long, black hair, in his thirties. 
He carries a long spear with a sharp bronze head and 
wears clothing of superior make under a travelling 
cloak; a large key jangles at his waist. 
 
He does not bow, but haughtily addresses the 
assembled kings as equals, speaking in a strange 
accent. “I am Drustan, messenger of Saruman the 
White. I come to you now with a message of hope from 
the wisest of the Wise.”
 
Drustan is a Man from a land in the south called 
Dunland, now serving the White Wizard. He addresses 
the council in closed session, saying that Saruman 
will soon come to Mirkwood to study Dol Guldur. For 
the next three years, the White Wizard will reside in 
Rhosgobel with his brother Radagast, and any who 
wish to learn of the ways of the Enemy may learn from 
him…
The Assassin
An assassin has come to Lake-town to kill King Bard. 
The culprit is Hunald, a Woodman who disappeared in 
Mirkwood in 2954 while searching for treasure. He is 
a master bowman, and carries a quiver holding three 
arrows whose heads were forged in Angmar. His plan is to 
climb the roof of a warehouse in the Shipyards’ district, 
to get a view on the market-pool where King Bard and 
his retinue will board his royal boat for the journey back 
to Dale.
Hunald is not completely in control of himself - in 
Mirkwood he encountered the Messenger of Mordor who 
put the Shadow of Fear upon him (see page 128), and sent 
him to Esgaroth on this murderous mission.
The companions may get a chance to stop Hunald if 
anyone in the group shows a concern for the security 
of the emissaries sent to the city for the Council of the 
North. Companions who keep an eye open on unusual 
occurrences (and who are especially Wary, for example) 
might become suspicious of a Woodman hunter who 
drinks alone in an inn in Esgaroth one or two evenings
before the end of the council.
6
6

--- PAGE 47 ---
47
Hunald, Spellbound Assassin
Medium Human
STR 
12 (+1)
DEX 
19 (+4)
CON 
15 (+2)
INT 
14 (+2)
WIS 
11 (+0)
CHA 
10 (+0)
Armour Class 16 (Leather Corslet)
Hit Points 52 (8d8+16)
Speed 30 ft
Condition Immunities Charmed, Frightened
Damage Immunities Psychic
Skills Perception +2
Senses passive Perception 12
Languages Westron
Challenge 4 (1,100 XP)
Ambush. During his first turn, Hunald has Advantage on 
attack rolls against any creature that hasn’t taken a turn.
Ensorcelled. Hunald has been dominated by the will of 
the Nazgûl, and no words will cause him to stray from his 
mission (reflected in Condition Immunities, above).
Actions
Multiattack. Hunald makes three attacks with either his 
broadsword or great bow.
Broadsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 8 (1d8+4) slashing damage.
Great Bow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, range 
150/600 ft, one target. Hit: 8 (1d8+4) piercing damage. If 
Hunald uses one of his arrows from Angmar, it does an 
additional 7 (2d6) necrotic damage.
A Tragic Death
If Hunald is not exposed before, the assassin will carry out 
his plan. He takes position on the roof of the warehouse he 
chose the day before, and when Bard and Queen Una stop 
on the quay to address the crowd that gathered to bid the 
royal couple farewell, the archer stands up, bends his bow 
and quickly send three arrows flying, the last leaving the 
string before the first finds its target.
What follows is complete chaos - the assembled crowd 
witness in dismay as Bard is hit on the shoulder by the 
first arrow and Queen Una turns to shield her beloved 
husband and is pierced by the other two black darts. The 
bodyguards of the King close around the couple, while 
six Royal Archers send a hail of arrows in the direction 
of the attack - but it’s too late, Hunald has disappeared 
from sight. The body of the archer is found some time later 
- he threw himself into the cold waters of the Long Lake 
immediately after the attack.
When the town guard finally succeeds in placating the 
crowd and containing the tumult, the full horror of the 
truth emerges: King Bard is not grievously wounded and 
will recover quickly, but the Queen is dead.
Examining the black darts shot at the royal couple 
identifies them as the work of Angmar of old (the origin 
is clear to a hero with Dark Knowledge, or anyone who 
2
The Return of the Shadow: 2951-2960

--- PAGE 48 ---
Mirkwood Campaign
48
makes a DC 10 Intelligence (Shadow-lore) check). If this 
piece of information spreads, it immediately raises the 
suspicion among the common folk that the assassin was 
hired by the Elves, because of the recent disputes between 
the Woodland Realm and Dale (“Who could have provided 
such a terrible and ancient weapon if not Elves!” ).
Year’s End
Despair, rumour and suspicion about the assassination of 
Queen Una reign in Dale and Lake-town all winter. King 
Bard mourns his wife by refusing to see anyone but his 
closest counsellors. This winter is again harsh and cold, 
and wolves prowl even at the gates of Woodmen-town. 
The DC for all Holding Upkeep checks is raised by 2.
- Year 2957 -
For heroes of level 7 or 8
Events
Saruman the Wise takes up residence in Rhosgobel for a 
time. He dwells not with his fellow Wizard, but in a cottage 
within the tall hedge protecting the town. His servant, 
Drustan, is never far away, and three tall, dark-eyed Men, 
seemingly belonging to the same southern folk, help the 
Dunlending with the daily chores. During the Fellowship 
phases of this year (not only the one at Year’s End), 
companions at Rhosgobel may confer with Saruman, 
gaining the advantages coming with the associated 
undertaking (see Confer with Saruman, page 53).
The arrival of Saruman snaps Radagast out of his gloomy 
reverie, and the Brown Wizard is once again seen coming 
and going in and around Rhosgobel, always announced 
and followed by flocks of excited birds. He is still not in 
his best shape, though, and it is about at this time that the 
once powerful and determined Wizard loses the respect 
of Saruman.
After several years of relative peace, the howl of the 
Werewolf is heard along the East Bight.
The Messenger of Mordor and the Ghost of the Forest 
return to Dol Guldur and consult with the Lieutenant. The 
Messenger then rides to Mordor to seek new orders from 
their dark master, while the Ghost is sent to haunt the forest 
in the vicinity of Rhosgobel, to spy on the Woodmen. All 
three fear the presence of the White Wizard in Mirkwood. 
On his way south, the Messenger of Mordor rides through 
the East Bight, awakening more Wood-wights as he goes. 
If Ceawin is in the thrall of the Wights, then he meets with 
the Messenger of Mordor by night.
Adventuring Phase: 
The Siege of Black Tarn Hall
This adventure determines the fate of Black Tarn Hall. If the 
companions are unable to save the village, it is abandoned 
forever and plays no further part in the Campaign.
What is the state of the village of Amaleoda at this stage 
of the campaign? Is it a small collection of muddy shacks, 
or has it become a stronghold of the Woodmen? Does 
the shieldmaiden rule from a sturdy longhouse, or is the 
village still unfortified? Are there only a few surly fisherfolk 
living here, or have their numbers grown? What of their 
allies – are they friendly with the Men of the Tyrant’s Hill? 
Do they trade with the East Bight? Or do they stand alone 
and friendless?
There are many possible reasons for the company to be in 
Black Tarn Hall. Woodmen heroes may be there to trade 
or to visit relatives. Companions working for a patron 
may be on their way back from a scouting mission in the 
vicinity of Dol Guldur. The characters might be searching
for the treasure of the Black Tarn, or looking for the advice 
of Radagast.
Choking Weeds and Yelling Goblins
The first threat to the village comes in early summer, in the 
form of fast-growing weeds. They appear almost overnight, 
sprouting with unnatural quickness along the shoreline 
and wrapping themselves around the small boats used 
by the Woodmen. Paths used by the Woodmen become 
infested with Gallows-weed (see Rhovanion Region Guide, 
page 124) and travel becomes even more dangerous. In 
a span of a week or so, most of the boats are so engulfed 
by the weeds that they cannot be used, and the air by the 
7
4

--- PAGE 49 ---
49
lakeside becomes unwholesome, as the weeds release a 
sick stench as they dry in the sun.
The Woodmen have only a few days to contemplate this 
strange development, when news reach Amaleoda of a 
worse turn of events. Hunters return from the woods to 
the south and east of the village, bringing tidings of an 
infestation of Forest Goblins! The trees literally crawl with 
the nasty critters, and their presence has deserted the area 
of all animals. Something must have driven the otherwise 
craven creatures out of their holes in the south.
A Siege
The stinking vapours rising from the lake and the 
incessant sound of the bleating Goblin-horns echoing 
in the surrounding woods make the situation very clear 
for the inhabitants of Black Tarn Hall. With the lake and 
river choked by noxious weeds and the woods infested by 
Goblins and Gallows-weed, the Woodmen can’t catch the 
fish and game they need to sustain themselves. It won’t 
be long before the Woodmen start to suffer from hunger.
The village has some fortune left to it – the Orcs cannot 
abide sunlight, and the village has been built in the open 
ground near the lake, without trees to shade it. But soon 
the Goblins will try the defences of the village and attack 
it at night.
Amaleoda asks the companions for counsel; the current 
situation cannot be sustained for long. How can the 
Woodmen try to free the woods of the threat of the 
Goblins? Should she remain to hold the village while the 
companions go to find help? And if they go for allies, 
where do they go? Rhosgobel is close by, but there are 
few warriors there. Woodmen-town is populous, and 
if the companions take the river it is a faster road – but 
can they find help in time? Finally, the infested woods 
stand between Black Tarn Hall and the Tyrant’s Hill, but 
if they could get help from Mogdred, together they could 
reasonably try to get rid of the Forest Goblins.
All solutions seem equally difficult. What will the 
companions suggest?
The River-maiden Uncloaked 
Two days after the beginning of the ‘siege’ of Black Tarn 
Hall, a pale mist rises from the waters of the lake. In the 
mid-afternoon, a woman emerges from it and walks into 
the village. Her beauty is heart-breaking, but cold, like a 
waterfall frozen by a hard winter. Her eyes gleam with a 
strange malice, and she wears a rippling corslet of shining 
armour.
“Children of the wood, children of my blood,” she says, 
“long have you dwelt in the care of me and my sisters. 
Long have we been friends. Listen now – against the 
coming darkness there can be no victory. I shall protect 
you – follow me, and I will lead you to a place of safety!”
A successful DC 10 Wisdom (Insight) check alerts the 
companions that she is lying, if they have not already 
realised that Duskwater is corrupt.
If the companions do not speak up against the River-
maiden, then the folk of Black Tarn Hall listen to her, 
driven by their doubts and fears. The River-maiden leads 
them into the mists… and they are never seen again. (If 
the companions are foolish enough to follow the River-
maiden, then they are ambushed by Orcs in the mist.)
Convincing the villagers to reject the River-maiden 
requires decisive action from the companions.  Checks are 
at DC 15 (10 if the heroes have proof of her treachery) and 
each hero can attempt one Intimidation, Persuasion, 
Riddle, or Traditions check. If half or more are successful, 
the villagers turn their backs on the River-maiden.
If her offer is rejected, the Maiden laughs cruelly. She looks 
at Amaleoda with her frozen eyes. “So be it. I will watch 
as you and those who are so foolish to follow you slowly 
starve. Then, one day, I’ll come to collect your bones, to 
bring them to those who wait at the bottom of the lake.”
She vanishes, and suddenly a thick fog rolls in off the 
Black Tarn. The weak light of the sun cannot penetrate the 
grey mists. Each hero must spend Inspiration or become 
Miserable as the villagers despair.
The Raids Begin
Five days into the siege, the Goblins start to encroach the 
village, slowly moving through the canopy of the encircling 
woods. The Orc-kind of Mirkwood are not disciplined 
enough to attempt a full-fledged assault, so they will come 
at night in gangs, in ragged war-bands, in twos and threes, 
6
7
6
The Return of the Shadow: 2951-2960

--- PAGE 50 ---
Mirkwood Campaign
50
some already wounded and angry as a consequence of an 
encounter with Spiders. They do not expect resistance at 
first, so they attack recklessly, eager for bloodshed.
The Loremaster should stage a fight based on what the 
players decided to do so far. For example, Goblins may 
crash through the door of the hall or cottage they are 
sleeping in, or the companions may encounter enemies 
along the streets of the village, as the monsters revel in the 
destruction of everything in their sight. Most opponents 
are Forest Goblins (Rhovanion Region Guide, page 134), 
but a very small contingent of Mordor-Orcs (Black Uruks 
and Messengers of Lugbúrz — Loremaster’s Guide, page 
100) has come to reinforce their ranks. Marsh-dwellers 
lurk in the distance (see An Invisible Hand, below).
The first night of raids is won as soon as the companions 
kill at least two enemies each. The Enemy clamber back 
into the shadow of the forest, sounding the retreat on their 
war-horns. But this was just the first night of raids; more 
attacks will follow, every night claiming more lives.
An Invisible Hand
The assault on Black Tarn Hall was provoked by one of the 
three Nazgûl of Mirkwood, the Ghost of the Forest. It is to 
do his bidding that the Forest Goblins have left their lairs 
and have come to infest the woods surrounding Black 
Tarn Hall. Only the terror they feel for the Ringwraith 
overcomes the Goblins’ natural fear of becoming food for 
the Spiders of Mirkwood. Should the Ghost of the Forest 
relent his grip on the Goblins, they would immediately 
flee back to their caves under Dol Guldur.
To avoid letting his control of the Orcs slip away, the 
Ghost of the Forest has chosen to haunt the moss-
covered cairn that emerges out of the marshy ground, 
near the north-eastern shore of the lake. Here, a group of 
Marsh-dwellers (see the Rhovanion Region Guide, page 
136) have been hiding among the willow-trees since they 
arrived there in 2955.
The companions may become aware of the terrifying 
presence of the Ghost of the Forest if they investigate 
the coming and going of the Marsh-dwellers. In fact, the 
horrid creatures may be spied as they lurk at the fringe of 
every fight, waiting for a chance to steal corpses for their 
cooking-pots.
Should the companions follow the Marsh-dwellers, they 
will discover that the cannibalistic creatures have carried 
a number of victims to the cairn (unless the Loremaster 
wants to be particularly nasty, these are all Goblins and 
Orcs). If they have been to the cairn before, the heroes 
find the place to be even more desolate than before: a 
lingering sense of terror makes the air thick and barely 
breathable, and no creatures of the wild can be spied or 
heard in the vicinity.
At least one among the unfortunate guests of the 
Marshdwellers is still alive, and very keen at not being 
eaten! It is a Messenger of Lugbúrz, an Orc of Mordor, 
come to Mirkwood all the way from the South. He 
complains loudly about his miserable fate, and perceiving 
the dark presence of the Ghost of the Forest he addresses 
him directly, pleading for his life.
“Help me! I know you are here! You are one of them, you 
can flay the skin off these corpse-eating buggers! Shrieker! 
Nazgûl! Free me, please!”
Obedient to the will of his master who doesn’t want to 
reveal the true power of his most trusted servants yet, the 
Ghost of the Forest ignores the request. Overlooking the 
presence of the companions is another matter entirely…
The Ringwraith can deal with the companions even while 
Unclad and Invisible (see the stats for the Nazgûl, page 
131). He won’t communicate with the heroes in any way, 
but will strike at them with his Black Breath and Thing 
of Terror abilities so that the heroes are weakened and 
vulnerable to the attacks of a group of Marsh-dwellers (at 
least one of the creatures for every companion). 
Once at least two heroes have been made Stunned or 
Unconscious, the Ghost disappears into the forest, to 
continue his malice elsewhere.
Saving the Village
To save the village, the Company must act quickly. Soon 
the Woodmen will be defeated by the double onslaught 
of bloodshed and hunger, and will start to leave Black 
Tarn Hall to find refuge elsewhere. Amaleoda begs the 
heroes to go for aid… she will stay and defend the hall. 
The characters must choose what to do.
7
7

--- PAGE 51 ---
51
If they elect to stay, the raids continue, now reinforced by 
the Marsh-dwellers and the Ghost of the Forest. There is 
nothing but a hopeless (yet valiant) stand against darkness 
and death.
If they are get help, they must sneak past the orc picket 
around the village. Each hero must make three DC 13 
skill checks. These are usually Dexterity (Stealth) but 
some could be Strength (Athletics) to climb trees, or 
Intelligence (Investigation or Nature) to find better 
paths. 
The heroes can gain Advantage on these checks by setting 
up diversions or other clever stratagems. If more than half 
the rolls are failed, the company has been spotted… they 
are attacked by a group of Forest Goblins (two for every 
hero) and an Orc Chieftain with a red eye emblazoned on 
its armour (see page 103 of the Loremaster’s Guide). If they 
succeed or defeat the enemy, they can then go for help:
• 
The nearest settlement is Rhosgobel. The heroes 
can reach it with three days of regular travel (with 1 
Journey Event and a Peril Rating of 3) or in two days if 
they do a Forced March (see Wilderland Adventures, 
page 55). See Wizards’ Counsel, below.
• 
They might recover a boat from the banks of the Dusky 
River and take it to Woodmen-town. This takes about 
six days (1d2 Journey Events, Peril Rating 3), or three 
days if they travel by day and night (a Forced March, 
as above). The Goblins do not have boats and the 
Nazgûl will not chase them along the flowing river. 
See To Woodmen-town, below.
• 
An unlikely choice is for the heroes to turn south 
and head for Amon Bauglir. It takes seven days (1d2 
Journey Events, Peril Rating 4) through thick woodland 
to reach the fortress, or four days if they do a Forced 
March (as above). See The Tyrant’s Hill, below.
Wizards’ Counsel
If the companions successfully make their way to 
Rhosgobel, they may try to convince Saruman the Wise 
to aid them. Radagast is eager to go, even if what the 
companions say of Duskwater troubles him visibly, but 
the White Wizard is his superior in the order and he does 
not dare act without his permission.
Judging from what the companions say, Saruman fears 
that the village is already lost, and that it would be better 
to stay close to the protection offered by the Lamp of 
Balthi. A dark tide is coming, he says, and it is better to 
prepare a few fortresses of Men rather than try to save 
every outpost. If the heroes accept the wisdom of the White 
Wizard, Amaleoda dies defending Black Tarn Hall and it is 
burned to the ground.
His reaction is very different should the companions 
provide proof of the presence of a Ringwraith in Mirkwood. 
In that case, the White Wizard immediately commands the 
companions to lead him to where the wraith was perceived 
last. A light is set blazing in the dark eyes of Saruman, and 
he doesn’t waste any more time but immediately calls for 
Drustan and his men. Saruman then urges Radagast to 
stay behind in Rhosgobel, and leaves with the companions 
in haste (See Saruman Revealed in Wrath, overleaf).
To Woodmen-town
Once the heroes reach Woodmen-town they are sure to 
find there enough warriors to face the threat of the Forest 
Goblins. The Woodmen have long been enemies of Dol 
Guldur, and word of Orcs may bring every fighting-man 
and shieldmaiden to the river’s edge: a well-addressed 
speech has every available boat take to the river in a 
day, while a long throng of warriors heads south on the 
western shore of the Dusky River.
But no army can move through Mirkwood with haste 
and it will take ten days for the host of the Woodmen to 
reach the Black Tarn. By the time the Woodmen reach 
the village, the Goblins have set fire to the longhouse of 
Amaleoda, and the valiant shieldmaiden has lost her life 
in a desperate last stand to defend her folk.
The Tyrant’s Hill
If Mogdred is an ally of the Woodmen, then he sends aid 
as soon as the companions tell him of the siege. He also 
has his men find the captain of his border guard and has 
him whipped to death as punishment for failing to spot 
the advancing Goblins. This may produce Anguish (see 
page 181 of the Player’s Guide) in the heroes.
Strangely, the Orcs learn of Mogdred’s march long in 
advance, and fall back immediately instead of giving him 
battle… almost as if they were warned. Mogdred is praised 
5
5
The Return of the Shadow: 2951-2960
5

--- PAGE 52 ---
Mirkwood Campaign
52
for saving Black Tarn Hall, as the Goblins break their siege 
before they can burn the longhouse of Amaleoda, but he 
does it without inflicting any damage on the forces of Dol 
Guldur.
Saruman Revealed in Wrath 
Never in their life have the companions have seen a 
Wizard prepare for such a confrontation - as they move 
to meet the Ghost of the Forest, Saruman seems oblivious 
to anything and anyone; he rapidly advances across any 
terrain with sure strides and never ceases to speak arcane 
words and ancient rhymes in a low voice.
Whatever the distance separating the Company from the 
bog where the haunted ruins rise, the journey appears to 
take only minutes - when the heroes finally snap out of 
their trance, they find themselves along the shore of the 
Black Tarn, facing a group of slavering Marsh-dwellers. 
Saruman is still among the companions, and seems to 
stand above them like a tall pillar of white stone.
The Voice of Saruman suddenly resounds within their 
heads - distant, yet clear and comforting, like the sound of 
the ocean resonating inside a conch shell.
“Fight now, my worthy friends! And pray that I didn’t 
come too late to face this ruin. A shadow has come that is 
beyond the strength of the mind and body of any of you.” 
A moment, and then Saruman is gone with a white flash; 
the Marsh-dwellers yell covering their eyes - the light to 
them was as blinding as the stroke of lightning. The fight 
will start with the creatures being Surprised and the 
heroes have Advantage on their initiative rolls. There are 
two Marsh-dwellers for every companion.
Should the heroes prevail against the dangerous swamp 
creatures, they will discover that Saruman has driven away 
the darkness and what generated it. The Ghost of the Forest 
has fled before the power unleashed by the White Wizard, 
and the host of Forest Goblins has dispersed to the four 
winds. Even the Marsh-dwellers seem to have retreated to 
where they came from. Peace returns to Black Tarn Hall.
Saruman remains a guest of Amaleoda for the following 
three days. For the length of his residence, Drustan and 
his men never cease to search the area, concentrating 
their efforts around the marshy grounds along the north 
shore of the lake, where the cairn is located. Finally, the 
Wizard leaves to return to Rhosgobel.
Year’s End
As stated previously under the Events  section for the current 
year, companions at Rhosgobel may confer with Saruman, 
but meeting the White Wizard may have its side effects…
7
7

--- PAGE 53 ---
53
A company who meets Saruman is enchanted by his 
wisdom and nobility and must take him as a patron. 
Saruman communicates with his followers mainly through 
Drustan, his messenger. He asks little of his followers, 
save that they report any strange events or rumours to 
him: during a Fellowship phase, a companion in the same 
location of Saruman or Drustan may choose the Meet 
Patron undertaking to deliver important information to 
the Wizard and gain Inspiration in return (the Loremaster 
determines if the information the companions deliver 
is deemed important by the Wizard or not; anything 
concerning Gandalf is important, for example).
New Fellowship Phase Undertaking: 
Confer with Saruman
When companions are spending a Fellowship phase in a 
location where he can be met, they may go and listen 
to the words of Saruman the White, great among the 
Wise of Middle-earth.
A companion who has spent a Fellowship phase 
conferring with Saruman can make a DC 10 
Intelligence (History or Lore) check. On a success, 
the hero gains two Counsel dice for the upcoming 
Adventuring phase, or three dice if he succeeded 
by 5 or more. A Counsel die is a d4, and it can be 
added to any Intelligence check. Once it is used, it is 
expended. Unused Counsel dice are lost at the end of an 
Adventuring phase.
You can use Shadow-lore to make the check instead: 
you receive three Counsel dice automatically. But 
Saruman’s knowledge of the Enemy is uncomfortable 
lore, your hero receives 1 Shadow point as well.
- Year 2958 -
For heroes of level 7 or 8
Events
Despite having promised to stay for three years, Saruman 
leaves in haste in late spring, following a visit from 
Gandalf the Grey. The pair ride away south, in pursuit of 
rumours of the Messenger of Mordor.
If Black Tarn Hall was not saved, then the survivors of the 
siege abandon the ’cursed lake’ and come to Rhosgobel 
and Woodmen-town in search of a new home. If any 
character has a holding in that area, then Woodmen come 
looking for work and shelter.
Brigands ambush a raft en route to the Elvenking’s halls. 
They capture the crew and spill the barrels of Dorwinion 
wine into the river. One of the Elves struggles, and in the fray 
she is stabbed to death. Rumours claim that the brigands 
were Men of Dale from the villages on the forest’s edge. 
Three children go missing from a Barding hamlet near 
the forest’s edge. One boy returns a week later, claiming 
that “beautiful Elves” took him and his two younger 
siblings away to a magical feast. In fact, the children were 
taken by the Wayward Elves (see also New Background: 
Changeling, page 101). Other children may go missing in 
later years, to return in the same way.
Word comes from Mountain Hall that a great many 
Goblins are moving under the mountains. Hartfast son of 
Hartmut calls for aid. 
Swarthy strangers from the East arrive in Dale in late 
summer. They speak the common tongue with a barbarous 
accent, and say they are escaping a civil war that is raging 
in their land. They ask for the protection of the Bardings.
Adventuring Phase: 
Saving the Maiden
When the Western Eaves of Mirkwood return to life with the 
breaking of spring, Radagast the Brown seems to awaken 
The Return of the Shadow: 2951-2960

--- PAGE 54 ---
Mirkwood Campaign
54
with renewed vigour. The Wizard of Wilderland summons 
the Company to his home in Rhosgobel. He is  visibly 
troubled and questions the companions closely, asking 
them to describe every interaction they had with the River-
maidens in recent years.
If the heroes mention Duskwater’s gossamer armour, 
Radagast seems startled. If pressed, the Brown Wizard 
confesses that the companions’ testimony confirms his 
gravest suspicions: there is a terrible Spider-creature in 
Mirkwood, he tells the Company, one of three ancient 
monsters descended from Ungoliant herself! She is 
called Tyulqin, and she is the Weaver. Her silken threads 
are bound with dreadful spells, and conjure illusions 
so powerful they can even delude a spirit like a River-
maiden.
Breaking the Spell
Radagast does not know exactly what must be done to 
free Duskwater from the Spider’s curse, but he is certain 
that the Company must find the monster that keeps the 
River-maiden in thrall. But they won’t go alone, for the 
Wizard will accompany them (for the second time, if the 
companions went with Radagast to Dol Guldur in Secrets 
Buried).
Tyulqin’s lair lies somewhere deep in Mirkwood, but she is 
a secretive monster, and can wrap her refuge in powerful 
illusions and deceits so that it will never be found even 
by the best hunter from the races of Men or Elves. (If the 
companions have encountered Tyulqin before and believe 
they know where she is to be found, Radagast tells them 
that the valley they entered was only one of her traps, 
not her lair). To discover the whereabouts of Tyulqin, the 
Company must go into the Heart of Mirkwood and attend 
the Parliament of Spiders.
Every few years, Radagast says, the Spiders of Mirkwood 
gather in an eerie parliament (Rhovanion Region Guide, 
page 113). Through his spies in the birds and beasts, he 
has learned the location of the next session. If Tyulqin is 
there they can follow her back to her lair, but she rarely 
attends the gathering. If she is not, then they may be able 
to persuade the other Spiders to tell them where she lives 
- Spiders are not like the other animals of the forest, says 
Radagast with contempt, and they quarrel and fight as 
easily as Men and Elves do.
And luckily they are also equally greedy: in fact, Radagast 
prompts the companions to find and carry with them a 
gem of unusual beauty, to excite the legendary lust of the 
Spiders for such treasure and use it to their advantage. 
If asked, Radagast explains that Spiders of great age 
can suck the light from gemstones, and that jewels are a 
delicacy to them.
Acquiring a Suitable Gem
There are a few options for the Company to acquire 
a stone of extraordinary worth: The Roadwarden’s 
Staff (see page 30) is topped with a large pearl. King 
Thranduil is especially fond of precious stones and has 
many white gems in his treasury. Green gems are also 
favoured among his folk. The hoard of Smaug too 
contained many precious crystals and other jewels of 
great worth; most of that wealth is to be found today 
in Dale, Lake-town, and especially in the treasure 
halls of the Dwarves of Erebor. Finally, the folk of 
Mountain Hall in the Misty Mountains sometimes 
find gemstones in their mines.
Heroes purchasing such a gem should be prepared to 
spend 50 gold pieces or more on it.
Into the Heart of Mirkwood 
The Parliament is located deep in the Heart of Mirkwood 
(Rhovanion Region Guide, page 109). It is reputed to be 
approximately one hundred miles east of Woodmentown. 
Such a journey would test the endurance and the spirit of 
even the hardiest traveller, but Radagast the Wizard leads 
the companions, and his arts make the journey easier:
• 
The Peril Rating of the journey is reduced to 3, and 
the journey takes only 12 days… half the time it 
would have taken without Radagast. The Company 
experiences 1d2+2 Journey Events.
• 
Radagast carries a flask of his Mirkwood cordial, 
enough for six sips. A sip restores 1d4 Hit Dice. 
Radagast does not allow anyone to drink from the 
flask more than once a day.
7

--- PAGE 55 ---
55
Despite the Wizard’s presence, the Company’s course 
will take them through some of the most blighted places 
of Mirkwood. Each hero must make four DC 15 Wisdom 
saving throws against Corruption. Each failure causes the 
hero to gain 1 Shadow point.
Attending the Parliament
Through the deep gloom that hangs eternally from the 
tangled boughs in the Heart of Mirkwood, the companions 
see a glimmer of light. This is not the sun, nor the delicate 
silver radiance of the moon, but an unnatural, sickly 
shimmering glow. As they draw closer, they see a great 
clearing in the forest, entirely filled with the largest 
expanse of Spider-webs any of them have ever seen. It is 
a castle woven in silk, a city of Spiders, a hall of sticky 
strands.
Radagast whispers at the Company to be silent, but it is 
too late – hundreds of Spiders suddenly spill out of the 
trees and surround them. Radagast slams his staff into 
the ground, and the many-legged creatures seem to freeze 
on the spot, with only a thin creaking and bubbling issuing 
from their mouths betraying their anger. “Talk to them”, 
Radagast hisses, as he concentrates as if the Spiders were 
held at bay by his very thought.
 
One of the Company should then volunteer and beg leave 
to attend the Parliament. The Spiders chitter amongst 
themselves for a moment. Heroes with one or more points 
of Shadow understand a few words of what they say, but 
after a brief while a pair of Spiders scuttle off and return 
in the company of a weird man with a tangled beard 
and crazed eyes. He wears nothing but a loin-cloth, and 
thousands of tiny Spider hatchlings dwell in his beard. 
He speaks the Common Speech and understands the 
language of his Spider-masters. In fact, it seems that he 
thinks he is a Spider himself. He introduces himself as 
”Man-Talk-Slave-Meat”, Kch-thk in the Spider’s language 
(he is a Wild Man of Mirkwood, see Rhovanion Region 
Guide, page 137).
The Spiders say that they will permit the companions to 
attend for a suitable price - which of them is the fattest 
and juiciest? If, as they presumably will, the characters 
proffer a gemstone instead, then a big Spider scuttles over 
carrying a black chest. It flips the chest lid open with one 
hairy leg, revealing a small cache of gemstones. Most are 
of little worth, but resting atop the other stones are two 
astoundingly beautiful rubies. These gems were given to 
the Spiders by the Messenger of Mordor in 2951, and each 
one of them is beyond priceless.
If the companions place the jewel they brought with them 
into the chest, the Spiders escort them into the Parliament.
Addressing the Spiders
This is a scene out of an arachnophobe’s nightmare. 
Spiders are everywhere – big and small, thin and fat, some 
black as night, others a weird iridescent green or a sickly 
pale colour like infected pus with legs. One particularly 
knobbly fat Spider seems to be in charge of ceremonies, 
and old Kch-thk squats next to it. There are three huge 
webs that the companions realise must be the equivalent 
of thrones, but these lie empty for the moment.
“Order! Order!” cries the chair-Spider. “Sit down, fly-
gobblers and web-spinners! Cease your chattering! The 
Elders are coming!” 
5
5
The Return of the Shadow: 2951-2960

--- PAGE 56 ---
Mirkwood Campaign
56
Then, as if summoned by his words, a spidery thing drags 
itself past the companions and struggles up to the leftmost 
web-throne. Fat Sarquin is monstrously, obscenely fat and 
bloated; the soft flesh of her abdomen pulsates and leaks 
as her attendants struggle to push her up into her seat. 
Around her, the lesser Spiders squeak “Mother-of-All! 
Mother-of-All!”
Eight eyes fix on the companions. If they fail this Audience, 
she’ll eat them (see the Rhovanion Region Guide, page 132 
for Sarqin’s stats and abilities).
Motivation: Interlopers! Food should be wiggling in webs 
and not wielding sharp swords! But they did give us a 
pretty. And the Brown one… he bears watching. What do 
they want? Why would I not eat you?
Expectations: -1 if they offered anything other than a 
gem as surety; +1 if they offered a gem worth 50g or more; 
-2 if there are one or more Hobbits in the party (tales of 
Bilbo’s deeds have spread far and wide in Mirkwood); +1 
if a Woodman or Elf of Mirkwood serves as spokesperson; 
+2 if the heroes promise Sarquin more food or gems…
The heroes should choose a hero to be spokesperson and 
introduce themselves, a DC 15 Intelligence (Traditions) 
check. Radagast could speak for the Company, but prefers 
to stay silent and prepare for a quick escape if it becomes 
necessary.
Courtly Deliberations
The companions need to find out where Tyulqin’s lair is, as 
she is evidently is not attending the Parliament. But soon 
after the conversation starts, another huge Spider arrives 
and takes the rightmost throne. Characters who played 
through The Staff of the Roadwarden recognise this beast 
(and worse, he may remember them) as Tauler the Hunter. 
Tauler hates his sister Tyulqin with a fierce loathing. He 
announces to the Parliament that Tyulqin will not attend 
because she ”serves the agent of the Dark Lord”. (Kch-tck 
will not translate this, but companions with one or more 
points of Shadow can catch it).
At this point, the companions can ask the assembly 
of Spiders for information directly, or they can try to 
be guileful or proceed in any way the players see fit. 
Unfortunately, the Spiders are not willing to reveal where 
Tyulqin is to be found, either because they fear her or 
because they don’t know. However, a successful DC 15 
Wisdom (Insight) check suggests that Tauler is willing to 
talk to the companions afterwards, and this is true – once 
the companions leave the Parliament, fleeing or not, he 
follows them into the woods (see Meeting Tauler, below).
Once the heroes have concluded their presentation, make 
a Final Audience Check. Compare the margin of success 
(or failure) to the entries below.
Failure:  Sarqin’s belly rumbles and she decides that her 
appetite is more important than diplomacy: she attacks! 
Fortunately, Radagast wants to avoid a direct confrontation 
with such  a powerful creature and, with a spell he has 
been preparing since the beginning of the Audience, he 
makes the Company Invisible! The Parliament of Spiders 
is momentarily stunned, allowing the companions to flee 
the place - there are far too many Spiders to kill.
0-2: the Spiders barely tolerate the companions to finish 
talking. They grow visibly impatient, and will hunt them 
as soon as they leave the assembly.
3-5: the companions entertain or otherwise arouse the 
curiosity of the Spiders and obtain safe passage through 
the Heart of Mirkwood - this time.
6 or more: the Spiders are surprised, they have never 
enjoyed the presence of food without eating it so much in 
the past! Apply the results of 3-5 above; additionally, the 
Spiders let their thrall Kch-thk accompany them until they 
leave the borders of the Heart of Mirkwood (the presence 
of the Spider-slave gives the heroes Advantage on any 
attribute checks made as a result of a Journey Event).
Meeting Tauler
For so huge a creature, Tauler moves with unnatural 
stealth. He creeps right up on the companions before 
they spot his elephantine bulk scuttling through the trees. 
The Spider hisses and speaks in a mangled version of the 
Common Tongue, and says “Peeeeaaaceee”  instead of 
attacking.
Tauler has a simple offer. He hates his sister. He knows 
where she hides, but cannot enter it because of the 
powerful web-wards she weaves to protect her lair. If the 
7
5

--- PAGE 57 ---
57
companions destroy her magic webs, then he will be able 
to murder his sister. A DC 20 Wisdom (Insight) check will 
reveal that Tauler intends to blame the murder of Tyulqin 
on the companions, to avoid angering the other Spiders. If 
the characters go along with this, they will find themselves 
to be sworn enemies of the Spiders of Mirkwood forever – 
but how do they say no to Tauler?
If they accept, then Tauler will lead them to Tyulqin’s lair.
Into the Lair
Tyulqin has made her lair under a barren hill thirty miles 
south-west of the Parliament. As they approach, they see 
that the trees around the area are covered in some of 
the most delicate, intricate webs, spun with a fine black 
Spider-thread and similar to those they spied in the valley 
in The Lost Path (page 36). This is a place of deep Shadow, 
so each hero must make a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw 
against Corruption tests when entering and leaving, and 
if they tarry needlessly within.
When the Company is finally in sight of the entrance to 
Tyulqin’s lair, Tauler stops in his tracks and motions the 
companions to continue; then, he slowly withdraws into 
the darkness of Mirkwood. Inside the cave, the companions 
discover that the walls are covered with macabre traceries, 
beautifully grotesque frets composed of the same black 
Spider-webs. Their intricacy remind any Elf of something 
wrought from ithildin, and comparable in artistry to the 
works of the High-elves of the West - if they ever tried their 
hand at something so dreary and cheerless.
Looking into these webs, the companions seem to see 
faces or distant places or feel strange emotions. Why 
would looking at a particular configuration of Spider- silk 
make a character feel sad, and another configuration 
seem to bring nausea and a third trigger feeling like falling 
in love? Radagast cautions the company against touching 
or trusting anything in the cave; they need all their resolve 
and clarity of mind if they dare to explore the deepest 
tunnels of the Spider’s lair. Only by going there they might 
be able to discover and break the enchantments that keep 
the River-maiden in thrall.
Spider Magic
Tyulqin has woven a number of spells to protect her 
hideout: the companions must break them to get to the 
centre of the cave. Each companion is targeted by at least 
one spell before they reach The Heart of the Lair (see 
overleaf); the bulleted entries below describe the effects of 
the various enchantments.
Heroes targeted by a spell can perceive the illusion as 
they did during their previous encounter with Tyulqin: by 
making a DC 15 Wisdom (Insight) check when subjected 
to a vision and then making a DC 15 Wisdom saving 
throw, or by getting a 20 on the d20 when attempting any 
action and then succeeding at a DC 15 Wisdom saving 
throw (see The Lost Path, page 36). This time though, 
the heroes make their Wisdom saving throws with 
Disadvantage. 
Once a character sees through an illusion, he finds that 
he can dispel it by cutting through a Spider-web nearby, 
woven with the now-familiar fine black Spider-silk. 
But breaking each web risks awakening Tyulqin: all the 
characters must pass a DC 10 Dexterity (Stealth) check 
for each web that they break. If at least one hero fails, then 
Tyulqin is alerted (see Confronting Tyulqin, page 59).
• 
Illusion of Enemies: On at least three occasions, a 
hero sees enemies lunging out of dark corners and 
side tunnels, and violently dodges and ducks to get 
out of the way of their attacks. If the companion does 
not break the enchantment, he loses 3 (1d6) hit points 
for each delusional instance.
• 
Webs of Misery: A character is convinced he is to 
blame for something terrible that may befall the 
Company - either he believes he has accidentally 
warned the Spider, something he chose to serve his 
companions as food was poisoned, and so on. This 
nagging doubt makes the hero temporarily Miserable 
and will last until the Company leaves the cave. 
• 
The False Passage: The character sees a web-choked 
passageway that she is sure leads to the Spider’s 
secret lair. If she convinces the Company to follow this 
direction, everyone loses 7 (2d6) hit points due to the 
strain to get through.
• 
Seductive Spider: A companion has a vision revealing 
that Tyulqin is in truth a most beautiful and desirable 
woman trapped in a Spider’s body by the Dark Lord 
5
5
The Return of the Shadow: 2951-2960

--- PAGE 58 ---
Mirkwood Campaign
58
himself. This delusion won’t permit the hero to attack 
Tyulqin until the character is injured by the Spider or 
he leaves the cave.
• 
Horror of Poison: The character imagines a tiny 
Spider dart out of a web, scuttle up his leg and bite 
him. The character feels the agony of poison pumping 
through his veins, feels his leg burn as though his blood 
had turned to fire and is considered to be temporarily 
Poisoned for as long as he remains in the cave.
• 
Glimpse of Things to Come: Maybe not all of 
Tyulqin’s webs are deceitful illusions. The companion 
sees what she believes are a glimpse of things yet to 
come, facts related to the character’s life and fate 
(possibly, concerning the fate of a holding, of someone 
of significance for the hero: a patron, a lord, a lover). 
The spell has no other effect, but what the hero sees 
might actually come true. Or not.
The Heart of the Lair
If the characters make it to the heart of the lair without 
alerting the Spider, they enter a large circular chamber. 
Here, large strands of Spider-web hang as tapestries 
from above and seem to suck the light out of any torch 
or lamp the companions might be carrying. The gloom 
here is that of the blackest of nights. Tyulqin herself clings 
to the dark ceiling above, almost invisible. She slumbers, 
her alien mind exploring some strange Spider-dream. 
All companions must pass a DC 20 Wisdom saving 
throw against Corruption or gain 1 Shadow; additionally, 
companions who fail feel as if they are drowning in deep 
waters and have trouble attempting any further action: 
as long as they remain inside the chamber, they have 
Disadvantage on any ability checks.
After some distressing minutes of total blindness, all 
companions start to see things once again, as if the 
chamber was being revealed by the faintest luminescence 
- Radagast is working his subtle magic.
The River-maiden’s Trap
An enchanted web holding the spell that dominates the 
River-maiden can be seen directly under Tyulqin’s sleeping 
form. Looking at the web, a silken spiral architecture 
covered in water-droplets, the characters glimpse 
Duskwater’s terrified face. The black web can be broken 
easily by throwing something at it, but this awakens the 
Spider. Sneaking up and gently cutting the web requires a 
DC 20 Dexterity (Stealth) check.
The Girdle of the Tyulqin
Around the perimeter of the chamber are seven pillars 
of thick black webbing, each as big around as an Ogre’s 
thigh. These webs form the magical girdle of Tyulqin, a 
warding spell that keeps her siblings from entering her lair 
unbidden. Breaking these alerts Tyulqin — but breaks the 
ward and lets Tauler in (see Confronting Tyulqin, below).
5
3
5

--- PAGE 59 ---
59
Each pillar is AC 10, with 20 hit points and it is resistant to 
non-magical bludgeoning, piercing and slashing damage. 
Each blow might wake the spider… compare Tyulquin’s 
passive Perception to a DC of 10 plus the damage done this 
round. On a success, she awakens. If the heroes destroy a 
column without waking her then she stirs from her dark 
spider dreams and will awaken in the next round.
Confronting Tyulqin
If the Company’s presence in the cave is revealed at any 
time, then Tyulqin reacts with fury. The Spider-creature 
descends on the companions like a cloud of darkness 
and first uses her Webs of Illusion ability to ambush the 
Company; then, she will employ her Mesmerise ability to 
trap companions in the thick webbing hanging virtually 
anywhere in her lair. Finally, she will use her beak and 
deliver one of her Many Poisons to the target.
What About Radagast?
Radagast cannot simply intervene and save the 
Company from the monster; he has been busy all along 
preserving the group from the worst effects of entering 
a blighted place like Tyulqin’s lair, and is already 
weary. But if things go catastrophically wrong, the 
Brown Wizard may resort to desperate measures: if 
everything seems lost, Radagast suddenly puts himself 
between Tyulqin and the Company, and smites the 
ground with his staff, breaking it!
A blinding flash of light of many hues disperses the 
strangling gloom of the Spider’s lair, repulsing back 
the vast shape of the Child of Shelob for a time long 
enough to let the companions escape the place.
If Radagast breaks his staff to save the Company, 
he will secretly leave Rhosgobel right after the end of 
the adventure. The Brown Wizard will return only in 
2966, leaning upon a new staff, courtesy of the chief 
of his Order, Saruman the White. 
Enter Tauler
If the companions managed to destroy the River-maiden’s 
web without awakening Tyulqin, they will need to 
sneak past Tauler — a DC 13 Dexterity (Stealth) check. 
Normally, getting past the master hunter of Mirkwood 
would be harder, but the monster is waiting for his sister 
to emerge so he can ambush her.
If the companions have awoken Tyulqin, but also 
destroyed her warding spell, then they need only survive 
three rounds of battle before Tauler leaps into the fray. The 
two Spiders stare at each other with their lifeless eyes for a 
brief instant, then Tyulqin flees into the forest, with Tauler 
hot on her heels. The companions will discover who won 
the deadly confrontation only afterwards.
To determine the winner, roll a d20. If the heroes did 
serious harm to Tyulqin or her lair, grant Advantage on 
this roll. If they snuck past Tauler or otherwise betrayed 
the hunter, roll with Disadvantage. Compare the result to 
the table below.
1: Tyulqin weaves a desperate spell of command. Both 
Spiders survive, but Tauler is now completely subservient 
to his sister.
2-11: Tyulqin kills Tauler, and now is consumed by an 
undying hatred for the Company.
12-19: Tauler kills Tyulqin, but he is wounded and is not 
active in Mirkwood for many months.
20: Both Spiders kill each other.
Return to the Black Tarn
The journey back to the Black Tarn takes another 12 days 
and produces 1d2+2 Journey Events, with a Peril Rating of 
5. The Company must again make four DC 15 Wisdom 
saving throws against Corruption (one does not simply 
walk out of the Heart of Mirkwood!). Radagast leads the 
companions to the shore of the Black Tarn. Already, the 
lake seems healthier – the foul weeds are rotting, the 
water is clearer, the fog less dense. The Wizard searches 
the shores of the lake for some time, until he spots a group 
of Black Herons standing still: lying in the rushes among 
them is the unmoving form of Duskwater. She is pale as 
death and clearly very weak.
Showing unexpected strength, the Wizard lifts the maiden 
out of the water and bids that the companions go fetch 
7
5
7
The Return of the Shadow: 2951-2960

--- PAGE 60 ---
Mirkwood Campaign
60
a boat. There is only one place where her spirit can be 
fully healed of the Spider’s taint – the Hall of Balthi in 
Woodmen-town. If she is not brought there the River-
maiden will die.
To Woodmen-town
The characters’ boat seems to be hastened on its way by 
the other two River-maidens, who appear in the waters as 
a funereal escort for their sister. It is as though the river 
flows  backwards among banks of glimmering mist, and 
the companions arrive within two days of leaving the 
Black Tarn. Nothing dares disturb the procession and 
there are no Journey Events. However, at Woodmen-town, 
the way to the hall is barred by old Fridwald the Runner 
and several other warriors of the Woodmen.
“Hail, Radagast. Hail, heroes. You are welcome here.” He 
points a wizened finger at the Maiden. “She  is not. Many 
have spoken of her treachery at Black Tarn Hall.”
The final challenge is persuading Fridwald to let the River-
maiden enter the Hall of the Lamp. The Company and 
Radagast could force their way past, but that would be an 
unforgivable breach of the trust between the Wizard and 
the folk of the Wood. Telling Fridwald that the Maiden was 
bewitched by agents of the Enemy is also not enough – does 
that wash away all her crimes? The nature of the Company’s 
previous dealings with the Woodmen of Woodmen-town is 
critical to the success of their Audience here.
The Hall of the Lamp
If the companions convince Fridwald to let them into 
the House, then Radagast arranges for the unmoving 
body of Duskwater to be placed upon a bier on the dais, 
close to where the lamp hangs. Then, the Wizard asks the 
Woodmen to take down the Lamp of Balthi from its place 
of honour. 
The Hall-warden, a woman in charge of the keeping of 
the lamp, operates the chains and pulleys that hold the 
lamp aloft, and lowers it. Then, she carefully removes the 
glass case, exposing the Elven-lamp within for all to see. 
The unfiltered blue light that issues from the lamp washes 
over the assembly of bystanders.
Companions who have never seen the Lamp of Balthi out 
of its case before must make a Constitution saving throw 
with a DC equal to 10 plus the number of Shadow points 
they possess. Elves and Dúnedain have Advantage on 
the check. Those who fail are partially Blinded for a few 
hours; those who pass it can remove 1 Shadow point, or 
2 points if they rolled a 20 on the die (these effects only 
apply upon the first occasion of looking at the unfiltered 
light of the lamp).
Any hero who participated in The Beast of the Forest (see 
page 32) recognise the lamp as the twin of the ruined 
one found in the Werewolf’s lair. If there are any Elves 
of Mirkwood present when the lamp is exposed, they 
5
7

--- PAGE 61 ---
61
recognise the crystal within as the work of Ormal. If this is 
reported to the Thranduil, it precipitates the events of The 
Anger of the Elvenking early (see page 74).
The effects of the light on Duskwater are difficult to 
perceive: the River-maiden remains still, but a DC 15 
Wisdom (Medicine) check catches imperceptible signs 
of a future recovery — her breathing seems deeper and 
more regular, and some warmth seems to have already 
returned to her limbs. She will live.
Aftermath
If the companions saved the River-maiden from the 
curse of the Spider, then that is worth a fine reward – the 
Loremaster should consider giving each player Inspiration 
as well as the appropriate Experience Awards.
If the companions failed, or chose not to go on this quest, 
then Radagast can only deal with Duskwater in a direct 
and personal way. He sails out onto the Black Tarn alone 
one night, and shortly after a thunderstorm hits the area. 
For five days and nights heavy rains wash over the Black 
Tarn, then, the storms cease abruptly. Radagast returns to 
Rhosgobel, his face pale and drawn - Duskwater is never 
seen again, and a new maiden takes her place in time (see 
below). The Brown Wizard is grief-stricken, and vanishes 
for several years. He won’t return before 2966.
A New River-maiden
If Duskwater perishes, then a new River-maiden is 
needed. Over the course of the following year, both her 
siblings grow older and darker – Silverbell leaves the 
springs in the northern part of the River and moves 
to dwell closer to Woodmen-town, while Sunshadow is 
seen more and more in the Black Tarn itself. 
If any of the company have the River-blooded virtue 
(Rhovanion Region Guide, page 101), then one of 
their female relatives may be called as the new River-
maiden. (A female companion who wishes to retire 
could also become the new River-maiden). Otherwise, 
the new River-maiden is a stern guardian of the forest, 
like a feral child who ferociously defends the river, and 
her name is Ice-spear. 
Year’s End
Even if Black Tarn Hall survived, the borders of the 
Westerns Eaves of Mirkwood are not yet safe: any 
companion who spends the Fellowship phase there may 
undertake to Patrol the Wild.
New Fellowship Phase Undertaking: 
Patrol the Wild
The Woodmen of Western Mirkwood always welcome 
those who would join them as they spend long weeks 
patrolling the borders of their settled lands, hunting 
down trespassing Orcs and beasts, and generally 
"beating the bounds" as the Hobbits put it. 
A companion spending a Fellowship phase in Woodland 
Hall, Woodmen-town or Rhosgobel may choose this 
undertaking and make a DC 10 Wisdom (Survival) 
check. 
Heroes 
with 
Enemy-lore, 
Region-lore 
(Mirkwood) or who are Woodmen make this check 
with Advantage. On a success, the wearying days spent 
looking for signs of evil grant the hero 1 Patrol die for 
the upcoming Adventuring phase. The hero receives 2 
Patrol dice if they succeed by 5 or more, or 3 Patrol 
dice if they roll a 20 on the die. A Patrol die is a d4 
and can be added to any roll during a journey in which 
the hero is serving as a Look-out or Scout. Unused 
Patrol dice are lost at the of the Adventuring phase.
 - Year 2959 -
For heroes of level 8 or 9
Events
With the lifting of the curse, the Black Tarn begins to heal. 
The Marsh-dwellers leave the lake and move north along 
the river, digging their strange burrows among the reeds. 
They try to lure the Woodmen into traps, and the weird 
tolling of marsh-bells echoes from the eastern bank of the 
Dusky River.
7
The Return of the Shadow: 2951-2960

--- PAGE 62 ---
Mirkwood Campaign
62
Enraged by the attack on Tyulqin, the Spiders of Mirkwood 
rampage through the woods. They turn on the Wild Men 
of Mirkwood who dwell north of the East Bight (Rhovanion 
Region Guide, page 113) and these primitive barbarians 
flee before their wrathful masters. Some even trespass 
into the Woodland Realm, while others take up residence 
in the Long Marshes.
The Messenger of Mordor returns from his journey to 
Barad-Dûr, bearing new orders from the Dark Lord. The 
three Nazgûl of Mirkwood gather in council in Dol Guldur. 
Those allied with the Shadow are also summoned to the 
Hill of Sorcery; any character with a permanent Shadow 
point or a Shadow rating of 3 or more feels strangely drawn 
to Dol Guldur. If Mogdred is an enemy of the Woodmen, 
then he goes to Dol Guldur. If Ceawin is in the thrall of 
the Wood-wights, then he falls into a dreamless sleep for 
several days during the gathering.
At the gathering, the Nazgûl discuss their new commands. 
Before the death of Smaug the Dragon, Sauron intended to 
attack the North first, to cut off the realms of the Elves from 
the descendants of Númenor in the South. But now the 
North has changed - the Ringwraiths are to redouble their 
efforts to destroy the Free Peoples – first the Woodmen, 
then the Elves, then Erebor and Dale. 
Secretly, the Messenger of Mordor travels through the 
Vales of Anduin to the land of the Viglundings. He 
promises the friendship of Mordor to Viglund if he seizes 
the crossings of the Anduin. He then travels on north, to 
Mount Gundabad.
Men bearing the device of the Tyrant’s Hill attack villages 
in the East Nether Vales. Many are slain, and many 
houses put to the torch. Mogdred claims that the bandits 
were former servants of his, but that he dismissed them 
some months ago and they are now free men living in the 
eaves of Southern Mirkwood, near Dol Guldur.
Adventuring Phase: 
The Horse-lord’s Daughter
Wilderland has been stricken by plagues and wars that 
depopulated much of the region. Lands that once were 
fertile and fruitful are today empty and barren, or sparsely 
inhabited by tenacious tribes like the Woodmen and the 
Beornings. The folk called the Leofrings were nomads and 
herders who followed the summer grass along the vales. 
They never settled in one place for long, but wandered 
along the river banks on their horses. In years past, the 
Leofrings were sometimes friends of the Woodmen of 
Rhosgobel, but they never dared to defy their fear of 
Mirkwood and visit Woodmen-town.
In the year 2940, a year before the death of Smaug, Orcs 
and Men from Dol Guldur attacked Dwarrowhall, a 
Leofring encampment, and killed many and took many 
horses. The other Leofrings fled south and crossed 
the river Anduin, settling in the Field of Celebrant. (See 
Rhovanion Region Guide, page 66).
The Strangers from the East
Three strangers arrive from the East, and somehow cross 
the Company’s path. Perhaps they meet in a village of 
the Woodmen, or maybe they blunder into the heroes in 
the deep forest, or come to a companion’s home seeking 
shelter. They are a curious trio indeed. 
Two are clearly Easterlings, with dark skin and clothing of 
a kind not seen in the west, although they have travelling 
cloaks and boots that were clearly recently acquired ; 
one is a boy of twelve years, and has a kingly air about 
5

--- PAGE 63 ---
63
him, but his skin is marked by recent welts of whips and 
the bite of knives. The other Easterling is the woman 
who accompanies the boy, an old crone who is plainly 
exhausted by her long journey.
The third traveller is a woman of around twenty-five years. 
She is dressed in similar clothes to the rest, but her golden 
hair marks her as clearly kin to the Northmen. She is 
tanned from long years in a hot country. She alone carries 
a sword. She introduces herself as Athala, and tells her 
tale if the heroes give her and her companions shelter.
Athala’s Tale
Athala’s parents were folk of the Leofrings. She remembers 
coming to Rhosgobel once, when she was very young, and 
meeting Radagast. Nineteen years ago, their camp was 
attacked by Orcs and Men from the forest. Her parents 
were slain, and she was sold into slavery in the East. 
There, she was raised and trained as an exotic bodyguard 
for a noble family.
In recent years, great change has come to the East. 
Servants of He who in the West is called the Dark Lord 
Sauron have claimed positions of authority, and many 
members of the older aristocracy were forced to flee. 
The young man in Athala’s company is Sanjar, a prince 
of one of the countries of Rhûn. The other woman is his 
governess Nazhin. Athala brought Sanjar to Mirkwood to 
save him from torture and assassination.
Athala had other reasons to return to Wilderland: she is 
seeking revenge. Even if many years passed, she remembers 
clearly the face of the man who killed her parents and her 
sisters. He was a young man then, younger than she is now. 
He may still be alive – but if he is dead, why, someone must 
have ordered the attack. Her sword is thirsty…
First, though, she must bring Sanjar and Nazhin to a place 
of safety. Then, she will seek out her enemy. She describes 
the young man to the companions: the description clearly 
matches Mogdred, the lord of the Tyrant’s Hill.
The Crimes of Mogdred
Athala’s claim that Mogdred is responsible for her 
suffering is of more importance to the folk of Mirkwood 
than she realises. According to Mogdred, he was a slave in 
Dol Guldur nineteen years ago, and only rose to command 
the Tyrant’s Hill after the Wise drove out the Necromancer. 
If Athala is to be believed, then Mogdred was leading Orc 
raids long before that. Only one who had willingly chosen 
to serve the Necromancer could have been of such high 
standing.
Athala wants to kill Mogdred, with or without the 
Company’s help. She’s a skilled warrior, but knows 
nothing about surviving in the forest of Mirkwood. If she 
goes off alone in search of the Tyrant’s Hill, she will likely 
end up eaten by Spiders or killed by Mogdred’s men. The 
companions can help Athala get to Mogdred and have her 
revenge, or they can oppose her resolve.
• 
Entering the Tyrant’s Hill: The Tyrant’s Hill is 
fortified and well guarded (doubly so if Mogdred is a 
servant of Dol Guldur). Sneaking in and coming out 
alive will be very difficult. 
• 
Confronting Mogdred: If the companions ask 
Mogdred for his side of the story, he laughs. He then 
either denies everything (“I was a slave nineteen years 
ago, just as she was. She hates the wrong man”), or 
claims that he was forced to lead the attack (“It was a 
lifetime ago. The man I was is dead”).
• 
Accusing Mogdred: The companions could wait 
until the Woodmen are assembled, then accuse 
Mogdred in public of lying (an opportunity will arise 
in 2960, at Ingomer’s funeral). 
• 
Convincing Athala to wait: If the characters help 
her find a place of safety for Sanjar, she is willing to 
forego revenge for a year or two. 
Year’s End
In years past, the Leofrings were allies of the Woodmen. If 
the horse-nomads returned to Wilderland, then they might 
again be friends of the Free Peoples. The journey south to 
the the Field of Celebrant is not especially hazardous if a 
traveller takes a boat down the Great River, and avoids the 
reach of Dol Guldur. There, the companions can meet with 
the Leofrings and befriend them. If the companions speak 
of the alliance of the Free Peoples, then the Leofrings may 
even choose to migrate north once more. Alternatively, 
5
7
7
The Return of the Shadow: 2951-2960

--- PAGE 64 ---
Mirkwood Campaign
64
the characters may choose to establish trade links with 
the Leofrings (possibly as a holding), or even open the 
Field of Celebrant as a sanctuary.
"There Was Something Else At 
Work…"
The Loremaster should be warned that as the text of 
this guide goes, the following year’s Adventuring phase 
works best if Mogdred is alive, seemingly allied with 
the Woodmen, but secretly in the service of Dol Guldur. 
If the actions of the companions steer the campaign in 
a different direction (they let Athala kill Mogdred 
right away, for example) a level of reworking will 
be required. The Loremaster should keep in mind that 
while it is never a good policy to arrange events in spite 
of a company’s actions, things do not always develop 
in the way they seem destined to be. For example, if 
Athala discredits Mogdred in the eyes of some of the 
Woodmen, other Houses may still support him. Maybe 
Athala mortally wounds the lord of the Tyrant’s Hill 
but Mogdred is painfully healed by the Ringwraiths 
of Dol Guldur, using dark arts that turn him in 
something more than just a black traitor…
- Year 2960 -
For heroes of level 8 or 9
Events
The conflict between the Viglundings and the Beornings 
flares up again. The Viglundings attack several homesteads 
of the followers of Beorn, and take many slaves. There are 
no big battles, but many small skirmishes. 
Beorn grudgingly dispatches a messenger to Thranduil, 
telling him of the war he is fighting. Thranduil orders a 
group of Elven warriors to travel to the western edge of 
Northern Mirkwood and lend what aid they can to the 
Beornings. Some in the court whisper that the affairs of 
Men are of no concern to the Woodland Realm, and that 
Thranduil is acting unwisely.
The Forest Dragon (Rhovanion Region Guide, page 79) 
leaves her lair and starts hunting along the eaves of 
Northern Mirkwood. Travel along the forest’s edge and 
the Elf-path becomes more hazardous. 
The Messenger of Mordor commands the Orcs of Mount 
Gundabad to aid the Viglundings in their war against 
Beorn. The Orcs obey, and Goblins innumerable leave 
their dens to harry the Beornings. Some go south to attack 
Mountain Hall.
Adventuring Phase: 
The Death of Ingomer
In this year, Ingomer Axebreaker of Woodland Hall dies 
suddenly. The veteran warrior does not die in battle, but 
neither does he die in bed like a weak old man – he falls 
dead at a feast, tumbling from his chair and spilling his 
horn of wine.
Ingomer’s death comes at a bad time for the folk of the 
wood. The growing Shadow in the south, the siege of Black 
Tarn Hall and now rumours of conflict in the north are all 
worrisome. In times past, Ingomer was always called to 
be the war-leader of the Men of Mirkwood and a rallying 
banner for the four Houses; all the folk from the Misty 
Mountains to the Wizard’s Hedge trusted and honoured 
him. Many folk of the Wood gather at his funeral to 
discuss the coming days.
The Funeral
If Mogdred is an ally of the Woodmen, then he attends the 
funeral as a matter of course. However, if he is an enemy, 
then the Woodmen must decide whether or not to permit 
him to attend. He was Ingomer’s son (see The Folk-moot 
at Rhosgobel, page 14) and so it would be very rude not to 
allow him pay his respects to his sire. The elders among 
the Woodmen are divided on the matter, and discuss it 
at length, but in the end they decide to let him in. If the 
players argue forcefully against this, the elders may 
reconsider, but this insult will damage the companions’ 
reputation among the Woodmen - a son’s filial duty is 
held sacred. 
The funeral rites are held at Woodland Hall, and last four 
days. The body of Ingomer is set upon a bier inside the 
5

--- PAGE 65 ---
65
Great Hall of Wuduseld. Many songs are sung of Ingomer’s 
prowess and glorious battles. Many speak of how Ingomer 
was elected war-leader in a time of need, and how dark 
days are again at hand. Many voices speak of how a new 
war-leader must be chosen, to bring the Houses together. 
A successful DC 15 Wisdom (Insight) or Intelligence 
(Riddle) check lets a companion realise that this swell of 
demand for a new war-leader is no coincidence. Someone 
has deliberately seeded rumours to raise the question. 
While many do agree with the need for a new war-leader, 
not all of the voices are honest ones.
The Arrival of Mogdred
Mogdred enters the hall of Wuduseld dressed less like a 
Man of Mirkwood and more like a prince from the South. 
He wears a coat of gilded mail, and on his brow shines 
a gemstone set upon a circlet. His men, too, are richly 
dressed and are led by the warrior-maiden Dagmar (if she 
is still alive).
Mogdred brings gifts of gold to those who mourn his 
father’s passing. Thirteen years have passed since the 
folkmoot at Rhosgobel. At that time Mogdred was a young 
chieftain. Now, he is more than forty years old; his beard 
is grey, and he looks more like his father than ever. Many 
whisper that he looks and sounds more like Ingomer than 
Ingomer did in recent years.
To the folk of Woodland Hall, any conflict or mistrust 
between the Tyrant’s Hill and the Woodmen of Rhosgobel 
is not much more than a distant rumour. Even if Mogdred 
was previously an enemy of the Woodmen, the young 
warriors of Woodland Hall start to clamour for him to be 
elected war-leader. The whispers become shouts, and it is 
clear that Mogdred will be chosen unless someone stands 
against him.
The Election of the Group Leader
All the Houses of the Woodmen (Mountain Hall, 
Woodland 
Hall, 
Woodmen-town, 
Rhosgobel, 
and 
possibly Sunstead, Black Tarn Hall and Tyrant’s Hill, 
depending on previous events) have sent representatives 
to the funeral, and they have the authority to elect a war-
leader. At the end of the four days of mourning, they 
gather at the doom-ring outside the hedge and stockade 
that protect the village, and a council is held.
To see who will be chosen as the new war-leader of the 
Woodmen, first the starting support of the candidates 
must be determined, in the form of a numerical rating. 
• 
Mogdred seems  the obvious choice – he is the son 
of Ingomer, he has the most supporters, his tower is 
well-fortified and is a bulwark against Dol Guldur. He 
has a starting support of 12 if the Tyrant’s Hill is allied 
with the Woodmen, and between 8 and 6 if he is an 
enemy, based on the current state of the campaign 
being played. Discrediting Mogdred with Athala’s 
testimony (see The Horse-Lord’s Daughter) reduces his 
support by 3 points.
• 
Ceawin the Generous.  If Sunstead is counted among 
the Woodmen Houses, his starting support is 9 
(reduced to 7 if he is in thrall of the Wood-wights).
• 
Munderic the Ponderous, a fat warrior from 
Woodmen-town. He is Fridwald the Runner’s nephew, 
and he is friend with many warriors of the Woodmen, 
but he is more of a front-line fighter and a drinking 
buddy than a leader. His starting support is 6.
• 
A Woodman companion.  If one of the heroes wishes 
to run for the position then his starting support is 
equal to his level.
Companions may then throw their support behind one 
candidate or another, entering the doom-ring to make 
a speech praising their chosen leader or criticising 
another (using skills like Deception, Intimidation, 
Performance, Persuasion, Riddle or Traditions). The 
DC for the check is equal to 8 plus the current support of 
the leader. Woodmen companions gain Advantage on the 
check. 
A success for praise increases the leader’s support by 1 
while a successful criticism reduces it by 1. If the hero 
fails the check with a 1 on the die, the leader’s support is 
moved by 2 in the opposite direction.
Once all the speeches have been made, add 1d6 to 
each leader’s final support value. The candidate with 
the highest total is deemed the new war-leader of the 
Woodmen. (Ties are resolved by rolling again, unless both 
candidates agree to act as joint leaders.)
9
The Return of the Shadow: 2951-2960

--- PAGE 66 ---
Mirkwood Campaign
66
The Decisions of the War-leader
The actions of the Woodmen in the years to come are 
partially determined by their choice of a war-leader:
• 
Mogdred. This is the worst possible choice – if he is not 
already in the service of Dol Guldur, then Mogdred’s 
ascension to a place of power in the Woodmen 
draws the attention of the Ghost of the Forest. The 
Nazgûl approach Mogdred and tempt him to use 
his authority to weaken the Woodmen. In the years 
to come, Mogdred will order warriors into fruitless 
quests and hopeless battles, and push the best of the 
next generation of Woodmen to become followers of 
darkness.
• 
Ceawin. If the companions saved Ceawin from the 
Wood-wights, then Ceawin makes a fine leader. He is 
understandably focused on protecting the East Bight, 
but that means the Woodmen form a bulwark against 
the Shadow in the south. However, if Ceawin is in the 
thrall of the Wood-wights, then his election as war-
leader proves disastrous. His black rages and frequent 
bouts of madness become more acute, and his words 
seem to indicate that in his confused mind he is 
fighting a war not against Dol Guldur, but against the 
plague and the foes that destroyed the confederation 
of the Northmen many centuries ago.
• 
Munderic. Munderic is a poor but not disastrous war-
leader. He alternates between ignoring problems for 
too long, and then charging wildly into battle without 
a clear plan. Still, if the heroes and other wiser heads 
can exert influence on him (his uncle Fridwald, for 
example) he can be guided to a measure of success. 
• 
A Companion. This is the best result, if the character 
has the wisdom and valour to see it through. See also 
the Year’s End entry below.
Year’s End
If a companion has been chosen to be the war-leader of the 
Woodmen, then he must spend the Year’s End Fellowship 
phase in Woodmen-town and choose the Receive Title 
(War-leader) undertaking (see box opposite). 
Receive Title (War-leader)
As war-leader, a companion is required to command 
the Woodmen in battle and has the respect of the Elders 
of the Houses of the Woodmen. He is not a king, but he 
is a general and a champion in times of strife. The title 
of war-leader can be revoked by a council of Elders at 
any time, should the companion prove to be unworthy 
of the charge, as in the case of a humiliating defeat on 
the field of battle.
The companion’s Standard of Living is now considered 
to be Prosperous. If the companion has a holding 
among the Woodmen, its Rating is improved by 1 (to 
a maximum of +6) as folk flock to the banner of the 
new war-leader.
Additionally, the companion becomes the bearer of 
the Great War-horn of the Hunter, a treasure of the 
Woodmen Houses of Mirkwood. Fashioned of old 
from the horn of one of the great kine of Araw by a 
Gondorian hero by the name of Vorondil, it was given 
to a prince of Rhovanion as a gift (Vorondil wore its 
mate on a baldric, and the horn is today an heirloom 
of his family, the House of the Stewards of Gondor).
The Great War-horn of the Hunter may be blown as 
an action in combat. All allies of the war-leader may 
then use their reaction to recover hit points equal to 7 
(2d6) plus the war-leader’s Proficiency Bonus. Once 
the Great War-horn has been sounded, the war-leader 
must take a short rest before using it again.
8

--- PAGE 67 ---
67
The gathering 
Gloom:
- 2961-2966 -
At this time, the fortress of Dol Guldur is rebuilt. The 
Werewolf of Mirkwood attacks the settlements of the 
Woodmen. The feud between the Beornings and the 
Viglundings reach a bloody conclusion. The forest turns 
darker as Elves and Men see their dealings become tense.
- Year 2961 -
For heroes of level 8 or 9
Events
Since the year 2954, Orcs and evil Men have laboured to 
rebuild the dread fortress of Dol Guldur. This year, their task 
approaches completion. While not all the defences of the 
Hill of Sorcery can be restored without the aid of Sauron, 
the fortress is now fully manned again.
The Werewolf of Mirkwood is seen crossing the Dusky River. 
It attacks homesteads near Woodland Hall, until warriors 
with burning brands dismay it and drive it back. Still, the 
monster lurks in the woods nearby for the rest of the year, 
and kills again at least three times.
A council of Woodmen Elders gather in Woodmen-town 
to discuss the recent events in the forest. Some argue 
that they should join the Beornings in their fight with the 
Viglundings, saying that if they help Beorn now, he will 
help them in return.
A wet spring and a warm summer augur for a good 
harvest in Wilderland this year. While the Woodmen do 
not sow much, their allies in the East Bight and Dale do 
rely heavily on farmed crops.
The Beornings defeat the Viglundings in a battle near the 
Forest Gate, aided by Elves from the Woodland Realm. 
Broken, some Viglundings retreat into Mirkwood while 
the rest flee north. Beorn and his men pursue, but their 
chase is interrupted by a counter-attack from a host of 
Goblins and Trolls who lurked in the shadow of the trees.
The Messenger of Mordor rides around the northern 
edge of Mirkwood, passing through the Narrows of the 
Grey Mountains and calling up Orcs, Trolls and other 
monsters. He then rides south, stealing past Dale like 
a shadow, and meets with his spies and agents outside 
Lake-town.
Adventuring Phase: 
Paying the Troll
If the companions are familiar with the exiled Dwarf Frár 
the Beardless (Rhovanion Region Guide, page 22) then he 
The Gathering Gloom: 2961-2966

--- PAGE 68 ---
Mirkwood Campaign
68
seeks them out to aid him. Otherwise, they can meet Frár 
if they travel across the Grey Mountain Narrows, or even 
along the Elf-path in Northern Mirkwood: the Dwarf is 
heading towards the Woodland Realm to ask the Elves for 
help, but he would much rather deal with a company of 
adventurers than go begging at Thranduil’s door.
Frár tells the Company of a band of ferocious Hill-trolls that 
recently took up residence in Northern Mirkwood. They 
were part of a Goblin army that came south out of the Grey 
Mountains, but split off after the battle with the Beornings 
and are now camped near the Elf-path, waiting to ambush 
travellers. Frár begs the Company for aid in dealing with 
these Trolls. He knows roughly where they are, and offers 
to guide the heroes there, once they have stopped briefly by 
his refuge in the forest.
Frár leads the Company through Mirkwood. For a Dwarf, 
he is remarkably woodcrafty, and moves through the 
underbrush almost as silently as a Hobbit. He is taciturn 
for most of the journey, but as they draw closer to his 
refuge, he starts talking heatedly about the lost Greydelve 
(Rhovanion Region Guide, page 24), a stronghold that was 
built by his forefathers long ago in the Grey Mountains, 
and now overrun with filthy creatures. Why, he even 
suspects that these particular Trolls dwelt in its halls! He 
is proud to have the chance to kill them. If the companions 
met Frár before, they find the years have mellowed him 
somewhat; his beard too has regrown, and he seems less 
bitter and angry, as if his long exile has finally taught him 
a little patience.
Frár’s current hideout is located in a rocky hill covered 
with dark pines. While a perceptive companion can spot 
footprints in the mud, broken twigs and other signs of 
habitation, the stones he has placed to cover the entrance 
to a natural cave are positioned so cleverly that the opening 
is invisible to anyone except a Dwarf. Frár approaches the 
entrance to the cave, then stops dead. “Someone is here,” 
he whispers. “Wait a moment.” He slips into the darkness, 
then comes back a moment later. “Forgive the alarm! It is 
my kinsman Flor. Come in, and be welcome.”
The Refuge
Frár’s current refuge is bare and grim. He normally resides 
in a hidden house along the northern edge of Mirkwood, 
in sight of the Grey Mountains Narrows, but his constant 
wanderings require him to make use of several less 
comfortable lodgings. 
A corner of the cave is occupied by some improvised 
pantry shelves storing a little dried fruit and biscuits, while 
the hard stone floor is made somewhat more comfortable 
by a thick layer of straw; there is no fire, just a cunning 
portable Dwarven stove that gives little heat and no 
smoke, for smoke would reveal the location of the refuge.
2

--- PAGE 69 ---
69
A second Dwarf, Flor, sits by the stove, digging out fleas 
from his beard and roasting them on the hot griddle. He 
grins as the companions enter, and hops up and bows. 
“Flor, at your service.” He then beckons Frár aside, and the 
two have a brief conversation in a hushed voice. It would 
be the height of rudeness for a guest to eavesdrop. If a 
character does so, then he gains a point of Shadow, but 
hears Flor question Frár about where the Company came 
from: Flor thought Frár was going to fetch Elvish warriors, 
not adventurers! Frár explains that the companions are 
renowned heroes and experienced Troll-killers, and, 
besides, they were closer than the Woodland Realm.
Flor tells the Company that he has been tracking the Trolls; 
they are camped half a day’s march from their refuge. He 
will lead the Company there in the morning.
If questioned, Flor tells the Company that there are three 
Trolls, but they are common Stone-trolls – dangerous, but 
nothing an experienced band of heroes cannot handle.
As everyone knows, Stone-trolls turn to stone in the direct 
light of the sun, but unfortunately the thick foliage of 
Mirkwood provides almost as much shelter as a mountain 
cave, allowing the Trolls to avoid sunlight. 
If a companion asks for a DC 15 Wisdom (Insight) check, 
she feels uneasy about Flor’s words, but the Dwarf is an 
accomplished liar and it is impossible to tell for sure if he 
is being truthful or deceitful.
Flor’s Secret
Like Frár, Flor dreams of returning to the Greydelve. 
Unlike his kinsman though, he is prepared to bargain 
with the Enemy to do so. Flor met the Messenger of 
Mordor last year, and promised to serve Dol Guldur. 
In exchange, the Nazgûl promised Flor that the Orcs 
would one day hand over control of the Greydelve, when 
the destruction of the Woodland Realm will make all 
of Mirkwood the domain of the Enemy.
Faithful to his dark pact, Flor is about to lead the 
Company into a trap…
The Troll Ambush
The next day, Flor and Frár leave their refuge along with 
the Company, and lead the adventurers through the woods 
to the encampment of the Trolls. Their journey passes 
through a thicket of black yew trees of great height; an Elf 
recognises this particular stand as Cuimenan, the Garden 
of the Crafted (or Piercing) Arches, a stand of trees planted 
to grow wood for the Elven bows of war. 
8
The Gathering Gloom: 2961-2966

--- PAGE 70 ---
Mirkwood Campaign
70
In the gloom of Mirkwood up ahead, the companions spot 
three Stone-trolls sitting around a campfire. The carcass of 
some animal – possibly a boar, maybe a Man – roasts on a 
spit. The Trolls pull at their skin, scraping off flakes of stone.
Unfortunately for the heroes, more Trolls lurk in the nearby 
woods, waiting to ambush the Company.
• 
If the companions charge into battle, the other Stone-
trolls burst out of cover and attack with Advantage on 
their first round of combat.
• 
If the companions try scouting the area first, then a 
successful DC 15 Wisdom (Survival) check spots the 
Trolls lurking in the trees, while a Perception check 
notices that there are seven big stones in a ring around 
the campfire, but there are only three Trolls sitting there 
on one stone each. Those stones are seats – there must 
be four more nearby!
• 
If the companions try sneaking up, then Fror shouts 
“They’re here! They’re here!” to alert the Trolls.
Unexpected Guests
When the ambush is sprung, three tough-looking Stone-
trolls stride out of the trees wielding clubs – followed by 
something that looks like another Stone-troll, but a lot 
bigger than the others, a hulking monster dressed in black 
chain mail! 
This Stone-troll chief was king in the wild wastes beyond 
the Grey Mountains, until the call of the Shadow drew 
him south. The other Trolls just call him Basher. He snarls 
a challenge to the companions in a mangled version of the 
Common Speech. Meanwhile, the three Trolls by the fire 
grab clubs and weighted nets and approach.
Frár is appalled by his kinsman’s treachery. Flor screams 
that “He promised that they would give us back the 
Greydelve if we killed enough Elves! You were supposed 
to bring me Elves!” Frár draws his axe, and starts to run 
after his kinsman - both disappear into the forest (Frár 
eventually cannot bring himself to slay Flor - the heroes 
may not have any such compunction if they ever lay their 
hands on him!).
Stone-Troll Chief
Large Giant (Troll-kind)
STR 
18 (+4)
DEX 
10 (+0)
CON 
22 (+6)
INT 
8 (-1)
WIS 
7 (-2)
CHA 
9 (-1)
Armour Class 17 (Troll-chain)
Hit Points 115 (10d10+60)
Speed 30 ft
Saving Throws Dexterity +3
Senses darkvision 60 ft, passive Perception 8
Languages Orcish, Westron
Challenge 6 (2,300 XP)
Sunlight Curse. Stone-trolls become Petrified and turn 
into stone if they are touched by the bright light of the 
sun. If exposed to sunlight, the Stone-troll chief must make 
a DC 10 Dexterity saving throw at the beginning of its 
turn in order to find enough cover to avoid being turned 
to stone. On a failure, the Stone-troll becomes Petrified.
Actions
Clobbering Sweep (1/day). The Stone-troll Chief can use 
his great size to strike multiple foes at once. He can make 
a melee attack against any number of targets within 5 feet, 
with a separate attack roll for each target. Targets must also 
make a DC 13 Dexterity check or be knocked Prone.
Multiattack. The Stone-troll chief makes three attacks: 
two with his troll-club and one slam.
Troll-club. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 13 (2d8+4) bludgeoning damage. 
Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 15 (2d10+4) bludgeoning damage.
Weighted Nets
Three of the Stone-trolls carry weighted nets, and 
may throw them onto a victim to trap them. They gain 
the following action:
Weighted Net. Ranged Weapon Attack: +2 to hit, 
range 10/20 ft, one target. Hit: the target becomes 
Restrained. As an action, the restrained creature can 
make a DC 15 Strength check, escaping from the net 
on a success. The effect also ends if the net is destroyed. 
The netting has AC 10, 20 hit points, vulnerability to 
fire damage and immunity to bludgeoning, poison and 
psychic damage.
6

--- PAGE 71 ---
71
Unsurmountable Odds
The companions face six Stone-trolls (page 110 of the 
Loremaster’s Guide) and one Stone-troll Chief (see above) 
— these are never good odds. Fleeing is an excellent plan, 
although hardened warriors may prefer to fight.
• 
Flee! To escape the battle, each hero must take the Dash 
action, possibly provoking an Opportunity Attack (a 
hero might be able to Disengage and then Dash without 
the Opportunity Attack). However, the Trolls will not 
give up easily… each hero must make a successful DC 
15 check of Acrobatics, Athletics or Stealth to elude 
them. Frár urges the heroes to return to his refuge, the 
trolls will never discover the hidden entrance.
• 
Fight! Seven trolls would be a challenge even for a hero 
of old. The Stone-trolls are much more frightened of 
their chief Basher than they are of the companions, so 
they will fight to the death as long as Basher is alive. If 
Basher is slain, then all the Stone-trolls become Craven 
and when reduced to half hit points must make a DC 
10 Wisdom saving throw or become Frightened of the 
heroes and must take the Dash or Disengage action if 
possible (if not, they take the Dodge action).
• 
Captured! Companions captured by the Trolls are 
not killed – at least, not right away. Basher questions 
them first - “no Elf-tricks ”, he roars – demanding that 
they tell him all they know about the Woodland Realm 
and the Elves who guard the Forest Gate at the western 
end of the path. He is clearly planning to make the 
road impassable, preventing anyone from crossing 
Mirkwood safely. Once a prisoner can no longer 
provide useful information, he is handed over to the 
Stone-trolls to be prepared for the cooking spit.
Surviving the Encounter
The situation is indeed complicated. First, these Trolls are 
not easy to fool; while clever roleplaying might lead them 
to bicker amongst themselves (with very good Persuasion 
checks, for example), imprisoned companions cannot 
simply keep them talking long enough for the sun to rise, 
as its rays will not penetrate the forest canopy. Fleeing 
characters could turn the tables on the Trolls, and guide 
the monsters into an ambush or a trap at the Forest Gate. 
(The pit trap encountered in The Questing Beasts is not too 
far from the Troll camp, for example).
Some hope remains with Frár the Beardless. Ashamed for 
his kinsman’s betrayal, he will return to the scene of the 
ambush and attempt to save the companions if he can. He 
brings reinforcements, the mad brothers Polin and Pomin 
(page 19), if they are still alive, and possibly other Dwarf 
exiles from the Greydelve. In any case, the force he is able 
to gather is not enough to defeat the Stone-trolls, but only to 
distract them long enough for the companions to find a way 
to save themselves. If everything ends well, Frár apologises 
for Flor’s actions. Some dark power must have reached 
to his kinsman, promising the return of the Greydelve in 
exchange for his betrayal. Flor is nowhere to be found; he 
fled screaming madly into the depths of Mirkwood.
Year’s End
The Stone-trolls on the Elf-path may become a problem 
that requires several adventures to be dealt with. The 
companions should consider paying a visit to the Woodland 
Realm, to warn the Elvenking of the grievous matter.
Holdings that benefitted from the excellent weather earlier 
in the year reduce the DC for their Holding Upkeep checks 
by 2.
Treasure of the Trolls
If Basher and the Stone-trolls are slain, companions 
looking for their lair find a cave nearby which the 
monsters used as their larder – and their treasury. 
Treasure worth 200 gold pieces or more are there for 
the taking, the bulk of it in Dwarf-gold stolen from 
the Greydelve. Some of the treasure, though, was 
clearly taken from recent victims, so there are a few 
Beorning combs and arm-rings thrown on top of the 
Dwarf-forged gilded helms and necklaces. 
Frár and the other exiled Dwarves claim the treasure 
from the Greydelve. If the companions take all the 
treasure for themselves they earn the enmity of Frár 
and his kin, even though Frár owes them a debt of 
honour after his kinsman’s betrayal. If the companions 
speak to Frár, they may come to an arrangement.
6
8
8
The Gathering Gloom: 2961-2966

--- PAGE 72 ---
Mirkwood Campaign
72
- Year 2962 -
For heroes of level 9 or 10
Events
King Thranduil sends a delegation of Wood Elves to 
Woodmen-town. If a new war-leader was elected in 2960, 
then the Elves pay homage to that leader with gems worth 
50g. A small number of Men are travelling with the Elven 
delegation, to ease any discussion and negotiation; among 
them is Halbrech the Wineseller (Rhovanion Region Guide, 
page 86) and his twelve year-old daughter Hanna.
The Werewolf of Mirkwood continues to attack the 
settlements in the Western Eaves. This time, it is seen in the 
proximity of Rhosgobel. If Radagast is present, he drives it 
away; if the Wizard is absent, then the wolf leaps the hedge 
protecting Rhosgobel and spreads terror and death before 
it flees.
The Beornings attack the homestead of Viglund. They fight 
a great battle, and six of Viglund’s sons are slain. Viglund 
himself flees the burning house and escapes west towards 
the Misty Mountains, never to be seen again. In a secret 
chamber under the house, the victors find the bodies of 
three strange Men wearing robes of foreign design. Among 
their devices, the bodies bear the sign of the Lidless Eye.
Adventuring Phase: 
Honour Among Thieves
For many years, the outlaw band under Geirbald Kinslayer 
has existed on the fringes of Woodman society. Geirbald 
and his ragtag group of outcasts and misfits roamed 
Mirkwood, hunting and fighting Orcs and Spiders. The 
company of Geirbald was a place where dishonoured or 
wayward warriors could find a home, where a man could 
cast away his old misdeeds and begin again (see Rhovanion 
Region Guide, page 92).
Geirbald’s original band of thirteen has swelled to nearly 
fifty warriors and twice as many followers. Now, Geirbald 
is very old and tired and desires to return to Woodland 
Hall. He contacts the companions and asks them to come 
see him in his camp in Western Mirkwood, so that he may 
speak with them.
The Outlaw Camp
Geirbald’s camp is more like a small town. While once 
Geirbald and his twelve wandered Mirkwood on wild 
adventure, now the outlaws are mostly settled. The camp 
is located in Western Mirkwood, approximately fifty miles 
north of Woodland Hall, and is surrounded by a stockade 
and several pens for grunting black pigs.  
In the camp, any companion who played through The Helm 
of Peace may recognise Valdis (or her sister Valya, if Valdis

--- PAGE 73 ---
73
is dead) watching children at play. One of the children is 
hers, born of her union with her former lover Beldir (page 
26). His name is Girion, and he is eleven years old. 
Standing nearby is a slim young Woodman warrior who 
must have fairy blood in his ancestry, such is his grace 
and speed. This is Elfsigil, her new lover, who is accounted 
the best swordsman and archer among the outlaws. He 
smiles like a viper as the companions pass by. Valdis’ 
raven Eágbitar still perches on her shoulder, cawing in the 
tongues of Men and Elves. It mockingly mimics the voices 
of the companions.
The Story of Geirbald
The companions are led towards a ramshackle longhouse 
where Geirbald waits for them. He has grown too weak 
recently to even leave his bed. Inside, Geirbald lies on a 
sleeping cot covered with furs. His skin is like thin paper; 
his eyes are bleary and white with cataracts. He beckons 
the Company closer and tells his tale.
Many years ago (Rhovanion Region Guide, page 92), 
Geirbald accidentally slew his sister with an arrow while 
hunting the Werewolf of Mirkwood. The Woodmen called 
him kinslayer, and Geirbald left his home for exile. There, 
he hunted the Werewolf for many years, but alas, he never 
caught the beast. He is too old now to continue the quest. 
He wants to go home to Woodland Hall one last time before 
he dies. Will the characters go to the Elders of Woodland 
Hall and beg them to allow Geirbald’s return?
At Woodland Hall
If they heed the request of the dying Geirbald, the 
companions meet with the council of Elders in Woodland 
Hall. Under the roof of Wuduseld they are permitted to 
speak in the outlaw’s defence (the Loremaster should 
stage the meeting as a full-fledged Audience). The Elders 
are divided on the matter – some argue that Geirbald has 
punished himself enough with thirty years of exile, and 
that he should be allowed to die in the shadow of the hall. 
Others say that kinslaying, even unwitting kinslaying, is 
unforgivable.
When the encounter appears to be progressing and the 
council seems approaching a resolution, a final obstacle 
emerges: one Elder named Atarmud refuses to make a 
decision without further thought. He seems sympathetic, 
but refuses to vote in favour of allowing Geirbald to return. 
A DC 15 Intelligence (Riddle) check reveals the reason for 
his hesitancy – Atarmud was once betrothed to Geirbald’s 
sister Geina, and loved both her and her brother deeply. 
Atarmud decides that he must consider the matter more 
deeply, and says that he will give his answer tomorrow.
That evening, a band of some thirty warriors emerges from 
the forest near Woodland Hall. Geirbald took a turn for the 
worse after the companions departed, and is clearly dying. 
The outlaws, led by Elfsigil, decided to carry him straight to 
Woodland Hall. They encamp outside the gates, waiting for 
permission to enter.
Atarmud & the Ghost
Tensions grow overnight between the followers of Geirbald 
and the warriors of Woodland Hall. The outlaws’ beloved 
leader is dying, and his last request is a simple one. 
Everyone knows that Geirbald has fought for thirty years to 
make amend for his mistake – to refuse him now would be 
a horrible insult, and would forever destroy the uncertain 
bonds between the Woodmen and the outlaws. 
In the black of night, Atarmud leaves Woodland Hall to 
go into the forest and visit his love’s burial mound (the 
companions have a chance to notice him if they keep a 
watch). As he kneels there, he hears a whispered voice, 
telling him that his betrothed does not rest easily, and 
that Geirbald is still a murderer and a kinslayer who failed 
to atone for his sin when he abandoned the hunt for the 
Werewolf of Mirkwood. Amazed, Atarmud returns to 
Woodland Hall and tells of this prodigious event. Steeled by 
this ghostly visitation, Atarmud declares that he will vote 
against Geirbald’s plea when the council meets tomorrow.
If the companions followed Atarmud, a successful DC 15 
Wisdom (Perception) check lets them spot a big black bird 
flapping away from a tree close to the burial mound. The 
bird is Eágbitar, the raven ally of Valdis.
Convincing Atarmud that he was tricked is difficult, he is a 
proud, old man. But the companions may certainly devise 
a way, or work somehow to alleviate his concerns.
• 
If the Company could somehow capture Eágbitar 
without killing it, they could demonstrate how Atarmud 
was tricked by the talking bird. If they attempt to 
7
9
9
The Gathering Gloom: 2961-2966

--- PAGE 74 ---
Mirkwood Campaign
74
confront Valdis herself, however, she slips away into 
the woods – she has a greater part still to play.
• 
If the companions take a solemn oath to take on the 
quest to kill the Werewolf of Mirkwood, that could fulfil 
the demands of honour. Atarmud wants to let Geirbald 
die in the hall, but the ’ghost’ reminded him of the oath 
of vengeance.
• 
In the absence of better options, the Company could 
sneak Geirbald into Woodland Hall under cover of 
darkness, so he can die in peace.
Geirbald’s Dying Wish
If Geirbald dies in Woodland Hall, he whispers his last 
words to those around him, including the heroes.
“The beast has taken everything from me. Three times I 
fought it, and three times I was defeated – but a foresight 
is on me now! The beast will die… in a place where there 
are no shadows… in a time when there is no hope… and its 
death… will be the doom of the Forest. It must be slain! It 
must die… all things must pass from this world.”
Pleased that Geirbald died peacefully, the outlaws return 
to their camp. A new leader is chosen from among their 
number – one of Geirbald’s oldest followers, a grizzled, 
one-eyed hunter named Beral.
Vengeance of the Outlaws
If Geirbald dies outside Woodland Hall, then he does not 
pass gently. His last hours are marked with fevered dreams 
and moans of agony. His followers are infuriated by the 
sight of their leader dying within sight of his home, but 
denied the grace of passing inside Wuduseld. When the 
council of Elders finally make their decision, the outlaws 
are so angry that they draw swords, and Woodman spills 
Woodman blood outside the gates of the town. Three 
warriors from Woodland Hall die, and two of the outlaws 
perish (Elfsigil — an Outlaw Chief leads other Outlaws in 
the attack). The rest flee into the forest.
Elfsigil becomes leader of the outlaws, with Valdis as the 
clear power behind him. The outlaws become enemies of 
the Woodmen, and in years to come there are many raids 
and skirmishes between the two peoples.
Year’s End
A hero who spent time with the outlaws may elect to join 
them. Eschewing home and kin, the companion joins the 
band of merry outlaws who dwell in Mirkwood and loses 
the respect of his home culture, but may also erase up to 
three Shadow points (including permanent Shadow!) as he 
leaves his old burdens and worries behind. 
As an outlaw, the companion may not take the Cultural 
Heirloom Open Virtue.
- Year 2963 -
For heroes of level 9 or 10
Events
In this year, curious weeds grow in many places throughout 
Mirkwood. These thorny wild plants look black in the 
darkness of the trees, but have an eerie purplish shade 
when viewed under direct sunlight. The black pigs of the 
Woodmen find that the weeds are very tasty, but the plant 
is poisonous to both men and beasts and many pigs die 
after eating them. The weeds also crowd into farmland, 
choking fruit and crops.
After appearing at the last battle against the Viglundings in 
the form of a huge bear, Beorn leaves his hall and travels 
towards the Misty Mountains on a mysterious errand. A 
few among his followers say that after the Battle of Five 
Armies Beorn made a similar journey and that when he 
returned he welcomed Men to settle under his protection 
for the first time. Some of the Beornings worry that Beorn 
will change his mind upon his return, and will send them 
away. 
Adventuring Phase: 
The Anger of the Elvenking
The delegation sent by the Elvenking to Woodmen-town 
returns to the Woodland Realm, bringing strange tidings to 
Thranduil. They speak of a great glowing lamp that hangs 
from the roof of the longhouse there, and that its light 
7
9

--- PAGE 75 ---
75
shines with a radiance they have not seen in an age of the 
world. Would it be possible that these Woodmen found and 
hid one of the lost lamps that once hung above the gates of 
Amon Lanc?
Thranduil dismisses the claim. He remembers those lamps 
of old, they were made of imperishable crystal, not glass 
and wood, like the lamp the envoys are describing. Then 
Hanna, the daughter of Halbrech the Wineseller steps 
forward and says that she heard old men and women in 
Woodmen-town tell stories of how their wondrous lamp 
was carried out of Dol Guldur by ’the Grey Wizard’…
This testimony causes an uproar in the hall. If all this should 
prove to be true, then the Woodmen could be accused of 
stealing one of the treasures of the Silvan Elves, of deceiving 
them by hiding it, and, worst of all, of endangering the 
Woodland Realm by not letting the lamp protect its borders. 
Why, if the Elves had the lamp they might never have been 
driven north of the Mountains of Mirkwood!
If the outrage was not enough, it could seem also that their 
“friends” the Wizards knew of this treachery. Mithrandir 
brought the lamp out of Dol Guldur, and the Brown Wizard 
lives not a day’s march from the hall. They must have 
known and conspired to keep the lamp a secret! Some — 
especially those aligned with the Wayward Elves — argue 
that the Woodland Realm should rise in arms and march 
south to reclaim their stolen property. Thranduil raises his 
hands for silence. Mithrandir hid the lamp, and Mithrandir 
will explain himself. Let the word go forth — find Gandalf 
and bring him to the Halls of the Elvenking!
The Hunt for Gandalf
If the heroes were present in Thranduil’s Halls when the 
envoys returned with their news, they may become involved 
in the hunt for Gandalf. The Elvenking promises to reward 
richly whoever brings news of the Wizard to him.
In 2963, Gandalf crosses over the Misty Mountains from 
Rivendell in the company of Aragorn and the sons of Elrond. 
The four cross into the land of the Beornings, hoping to visit 
Beorn, but find that he is gone. They then part company, 
with Gandalf and Aragorn travelling south to Rhosgobel. 
Aragorn continues south to enter into the service of King 
Thengel of Rohan, while Gandalf visits Radagast before 
travelling north along the forest eaves to the Forest Gate.
Upon leaving Rhosgobel Gandalf moves with haste — 
Radagast reported that his spies in Dol Guldur saw several 
riders leave the citadel and travel north in recent times. 
The Grey Pilgrim suspects the hand of Dol Guldur behind 
the actions of Viglund, and is bent to find out something 
about it. The longer he waits, the colder the trail becomes. 
Therefore, he does not welcome interruption.
The companions may encounter Gandalf anywhere along 
the Wizard’s itinerary. If they intend to bring him to the 
Elvenking, they must either convince him to accompany 
them, or threaten him with the force of arms — Gandalf will 
not attack any of the Free Folk, but neither is he particularly 
pleased about being diverted from his mission.
If the characters tarry, Gandalf is found by the Silvan Elves 
first. The Company encounters the Wizard anywhere on 
the road from Rhosgobel to Thranduil’s Halls, seemingly 
smoking his pipe alone while sitting on a rock or a fallen 
tree. Upon approaching Gandalf, the companions will 
discover that he is actually being escorted by a group of 
armed Elves of Mirkwood, and that their bows are pointed 
at the companions as they speak…
9
The Gathering Gloom: 2961-2966

--- PAGE 76 ---
Mirkwood Campaign
76
At Thranduil’s Court
The Elvenking might prefer to question Gandalf in private, 
but his followers are greatly wroth, so circumstances force 
his hand. Gandalf is questioned in the Halls of the Elvenking 
as though he was a prisoner. 
Thranduil intends to find all that is to be known about 
this ‘Lamp of Balthi’. Knowing that this day would come 
eventually, the Wizard sighs, and tells the full tale of how 
a young Woodman guided him to Dol Guldur, hundreds of 
years ago.
When the tale of the discovery is over, Gandalf admits 
openly that he gave the lamp to Balthi the Woodman of his 
own volition. He recounts also how he consulted with his 
cousin Radagast and conspired to conceal the lamp, but 
not from the Elves.
He explains:
“I was worried that the Enemy — the real Enemy — would try 
to reclaim it if he knew exactly where it was, and how could 
his Eye not be fixed perpetually upon the halls of those who 
created it?
“The lamp is indeed a potent weapon against the Shadow. 
But the Woodmen have the greater need in the coming war. 
Yes, war. Sauron has declared in Mordor. Soon, soon as the 
Elves reckon it, but perhaps even as Men reckon it, he will 
loose his gathering forces upon Middle-earth. Dol Guldur 
is rebuilt, and evil things dwell there again. Mirkwood will 
be a battleground.
“If the Elves reclaim the lamp, then the Woodmen will 
doubtless be destroyed. It will make the Woodland Realm 
stronger for a while, but in the end it will be an island of 
light surrounded by a sea of darkness, and it will founder 
and fall at the last.
“But I agree that now the choice belongs to the Elves. I have 
urgent errands elsewhere.”
The Wizard strides out of the audience and walks to the 
magic gates of the Halls, which only open at the wish of 
Thranduil. The Elvenking pauses a moment, then lowers his 
eyes - the doors swing open.
“I will not imprison a Wizard, even if he has wronged us — 
and his words, though bitter, were not without wisdom. I 
need counsel, and time to think.”
If the characters wish, they can speak to the court. Some 
Elves still want to take the lamp by force, others think they 
should demand that the Woodmen return it. Others prefer 
to wait, either heeding the words of Gandalf or arguing that 
the lamp has been missing for hundreds of years, so there 
is no need for a hasty decision. More worrying, though, 
are the many voices who argue that if Thranduil does not 
recover the lamp, it would be a betrayal of the Realm.
Thranduil makes no decision this year. However, he does 
send trusted agents to fetch Ormal the Lampmaker and 
bring him to Thranduil’s court. The companions might be 
charged with  this, especially if they studied with Ormal.
Year’s End
Companions spending the Fellowship phase in the 
Elvenking’s Halls who didn’t encounter the Lampmaker 
before may make his acquaintance and choose the Study 
with the Lampmaker undertaking (Rhovanion Region 
Guide, page 89).
- Year 2964 -
For heroes of level 9 or 10
Events
Escorted by Elven warriors, the Elf Ormal travels to 
Woodmen-town to see the Lamp of Balthi. If the companions 
knew or befriended the Lampmaker, or if the Elvenking 
trusts them, they may be asked to accompany him on 
the journey. Ormal is very interested in knowing any 
information the companions might have about the lamps. 
Beorn and Gandalf return together from the far north. 
No more Orcs trouble the Beorning lands for some years. 
Beorn asks his people for counsel – should they welcome 
the surviving Viglundings into their houses or drive them 
away from the Vales of Anduin? 
9
9

--- PAGE 77 ---
77
Adventuring Phase: 
The Greydelve
After many years, King Dáin finally listens to the petition 
of Frár the Beardless and the exiled Dwarves at Yule-tide in 
2963. The kingdom of Erebor has grown strong enough to 
consider aiding Frár in retaking their ancestral home, the 
Greydelve. In the Great Chamber of Thrór, the King Under 
the Mountain speaks.
“Long have you waited, Frár son of Fráen, and many times 
have you asked for my aid in reclaiming what was yours. 
Now, I will answer, but you may not like all that I have to 
say. 
“When I was but a stripling, I marched to war with my 
father Náin. We slew many Orcs and Goblins under the 
mountains, and came at last to the gates of Moria. There, 
we slew Azog and avenged the insult done to Thrór… and I 
looked upon the field and wept, for half of those who went 
to war lay dead or dying. Some counselled that we should 
march on and reclaim the halls of Durin, but to do so… to 
attempt that would have doomed us all.
“Now we have the Lonely Mountain again, and have grown 
strong and wealthy – but I saw how the strength of a people 
can be bled out in a single battle, and thus be diminished 
forever. I will give you back your halls, but I will not endanger 
my kingdom for honour or kinship alone.
“Here, then, are my conditions. First, you shall not be King 
of the Greydelve. You shall be Lord there, but you and yours 
will acknowledge me as your king. 
“Second, you shall have such an army as we can gather, 
equipped with the best weapons from my armouries, but I 
will not take the strength of the Mountain. Long have you 
lived among the folk of the Wood – ask them for help. Yea, 
even the Elves. 
“Third, to aid you, I give you a portion of my treasure 
hoard, gold and precious stones won by my cousin Thorin 
from the dragon. With this treasure you may hire warriors 
and sellswords, and they too shall be equipped from my 
armouries – but when the Greydelve is yours again, you 
shall labour to repay me.”
Hearing this, Frár tears at his beard, and grows red, but he 
chokes down his anger and bows, for he knows that he will 
not get another chance at reclaiming his ancestor’s halls.
Gathering an Army
In the months to follow, Frár visits Dale, Lake-town, the 
Halls of the Elvenking, the Beornings and the land of 
the Woodmen. In each place, he calls for warriors and 
adventurers to aid him. Those that join the fight will be 
paid in Dragon-gold and Dwarf-steel. He successfully hires 
many mercenaries in Lake-town, but needs more warriors.
Even if the companions do not join the quest, then they can 
speak for or against Frár’s proposal. Those who go will be 
richly rewarded and gain valuable experience in battle — 
assuming they return…
Reclaiming the Greydelve
The campaign to reclaim the Greydelve takes many months. 
Most of those who take part in it will not return until 
late autumn in 2966. The Dwarf-hold was once a proud 
9
9
The Gathering Gloom: 2961-2966

--- PAGE 78 ---
Mirkwood Campaign
78
citadel atop an iron mine, but the Orcs took it long ago. 
Innumerable Goblins and Orcs of various kinds live there 
now. Trolls of diverse varieties are their allies and perhaps 
even fouler things without name wait in the darkness below.
If the companions join Frár’s army, then they face pitched 
battles in the shadow of the Grey Mountains, followed by 
dungeon crawling through the dark mines as they seek out 
the last of the Orcs. While Frár is victorious at first, the 
bigger danger lies behind him… 
The Treachery of Men
Many of the mercenaries believe that the Greydelve 
conceals some vast treasure, and once the battle is won, 
they plot to murder Frár. If the companions are present, 
they may have a chance to save him.
• 
If the companions are not present, or cannot save Frár, 
the the dwarf-lord is murdered and there is terrible 
strife among the victors. The mercenaries are killed by 
Dáin’s  warriors, but Frár’s kin blame Dáin for failing 
to protect Frár. The surviving exiled Dwarves banish 
everyone else from the Greydelve and shut the doors.
• 
If the Company saves Frár, then the Greydelve is 
reclaimed successfully and becomes an ally of Erebor.
Year’s End
If the Greydelve is recovered, then it can be opened as a 
Sanctuary (see page 201 of the Player’s Guide). Dwarves 
who settle there may be granted a holding of unusual 
promise — after tending to their holding, heroes start with 
a Rating of +2. Others might win holdings as well, but these 
are in the broken lands outside of the Greydelve and follow 
the regular rules (gaining a Rating of +0 once the holding is 
established by the first Tend to Holding undertaking).
- Year 2965 -
For heroes of level 10 or 11
Events
If Ormal the Lampmaker was allowed to enter Woodmen-
town and see the Lamp of Balthi, he takes residence there 
and spends long months studying the wondrous artefact. 
While suspicious at first, the Woodmen let him do as he 
likes, as the lamp seems to glow brighter since the day 
Ormal has started to inspect it.
A band of Dwarves travelling along the Elf-path are going 
to join Bofri son of Bofur (Rhovanion Region Guide, 
page 93) in his quest to reclaim the Old Forest Road; 
unfortunately, they are waylaid by Spiders and lose their 
path. This misfortune turns on its head when they come 
upon a stream running down from the Mountains of 
Mirkwood whose bed glitters with gold.
Many of the Viglunding warriors and cottars defeated by 
the Beornings migrate south. Some settle in the fertile lands 
west of the Western Eaves and trade with the Woodmen; 
others settle even further south, and pay tribute to the 
Tyrant’s Hill.
Adventuring Phase: 
The Theft of the Lamp
Several days before the beginning of Yule-tide, a band of 
Wayward Elves arrives in the Western Eaves (optionally, 
led by Ruithel - see page 18). They meet with Ormal the 
Lampmaker and his retinue, and feast in an oak grove near 
Woodmen-town. The coming of so many of the Fair Folk so 
close to the Yule-tide festival is seen as a good omen by the 
Woodmen. Three of these Elves are especially notable. All 
three are young as Elves reckon years, and all three are fey 
and wild.
• 
The leader of the trio is Duvainiel, a dark-haired Elf-
maiden of some four hundred years. Despite her 
youth, she is noted for the strength of her will, and she 
has mastered arts that normally take many centuries 
to learn — she has mastered all three forms of Wood-
9
9

--- PAGE 79 ---
79
elf Magic (see the Player’s Guide, page 108) to an 
unusual degree. 
• 
Her younger brother Oldir is next in age. He is tall 
for a Silvan Elf, and unusually strong. Unlike his 
moonpale sister, Oldir is tanned and muscular, for 
he is one of the Raft-elves who travel down to Lake-
town regularly. It is important that the companions 
discover Oldir’s talents as a boatsman before The 
Festival, below.
• 
Third is Tinuhel. At only a hundred years old, she is one 
of the youngest Elves in all Mirkwood, for the Firstborn 
have few children. She is the wildest of the three, and 
the strangest. Her mood changes swiftly, like wild-born 
ripples breaking the tranquillity of a forest pool. She 
has little time for the ways of mortals, and considers 
Men and Orcs to be equally brutish and stupid.
If any of the companions are in Woodmen-town around 
midsummer, they meet these Elves. Duvainiel studies with 
the Lampmaker, while the other two make mischief in 
Woodmen-town.
The Festival
The Woodmen of Mirkwood hold a feast at Midsummer 
every year. They light torches and hang them from the 
boughs of the trees, trying to drive away the gloom for one 
day. It is a festival of light and hope, and reaffirms their 
belief that one day the Shadow will be lifted and the wood 
will again become green. It is a day for weddings and 
betrothals, for song and dance, for celebration and trade. 
Many come from the other Houses to visit Woodmen-town 
this day.
That night, the Elders of the Houses gather in the Great Hall. 
There, tales are told, songs sung and matters of import both 
small and large are discussed over many horns of drink. 
The Beornings gifted the feast with bread and mead, and 
the delegation of the Elvenking that visited Woodmen-town 
three years ago left behind some barrels of good wine, so 
there is much rejoicing.
Then, at the height of the feast, the Lamp of Balthi flares 
with a sudden light. Every eye is drawn to the blazing lamp. 
A moment later, the light of the lamp is suddenly snuffed 
out, plunging the hall into darkness — and everyone in the 
hall into an unnatural slumber, as Duvainiel’s Elf-magic, 
augmented by the power of the lamp, takes hold. As they 
fall asleep, the characters hear the musical laughter of an 
Elf-maiden…
When they awake, the Lamp of Balthi is gone. When 
Duvainiel’s magic put the feasters to sleep, the three 
Wayward Elves entered the Great Hall and carried it away.
Chasing the Thieves 
The disappearance of the Lamp of Balthi is a terrible blow 
for Woodmen-town. When despair finally gives way to 
suspicion and anger, the Woodmen immediately blame the 
Elves. If the war-leader of the Woodmen is present, then the 
Woodmen look to him for leadership in this dark hour. If 
there is no war-leader at the feast, then various Woodmen 
warriors of renown start taking action, helped by their 
respective followers. Some march straight for the camp 
of the Lampmaker and take him and his guards hostage. 
Others spread out into the forest, looking for signs of the 
Elves. Most hunters assume that the thieves fled north, 
back towards the Woodland Realm. If there are any Elves of 
10
The Gathering Gloom: 2961-2966

--- PAGE 80 ---
Mirkwood Campaign
80
Mirkwood in the Company, then they may be detained or 
even attacked by infuriated Woodmen.
A successful DC 15 Intelligence (Investigation) check 
leads to the docks, where one of the boats that was tied up 
there is missing. If the companions can divine where they 
were headed  (foresight, a friendly raven, a clever use of a 
Virtue, a DC 20 Intelligence (Riddle) check) they find that 
the Elves are going south along the Dusky River.
Chasing the Elves south in haste can be resolved as a group 
check (DC 15). Eligible skills are Investigation, Nature, 
Riddle or Survival. The fugitive Elves have a distinct 
advantage over the Company and planned their misdeed 
carefully. 
Eventually (probably the next morning) the companions 
find the stolen boat caught in weeds in the middle of the 
river. As they approach, one of the River-maidens rises from 
the water and points towards the east bank – the Heart of 
Mirkwood. She tells the Company that the Elves went into 
the dark woods, and are bound for the tree called the Eilian 
oak, the Skybridge tree. This is one of the taller trees in the 
region, and once marked an old Elf-path that ran from 
Amon Lanc to their refuge in the Mountains of Mirkwood 
(Rhovanion Region Guide, page 97).
As they travel, the companions notice the forest changing. 
The atmosphere in the Heart of Mirkwood seems less dark 
and unfriendly, while the Western Eaves seem to dim by 
the hour, as the shadows lengthen visibly. Have the heroes 
conduct another group check as above in order to follow 
the Elves into the Heart.
As they follow the Elves through the forest, companions 
succeeding in DC 15 Wisdom (Survival) checks find signs 
but not those left by the thieves. Someone else is hunting 
them! From the tracks, the Wayward Elves are being 
pursued by a pack of Wargs, and the wild wolves are lead 
by a much  bigger creature. There are other tracks, too – the 
booted footprints of a big man. 
From ahead, the companions hear a howl.
Battle at the Skybridge Tree
The companions arrive at the clearing around the Eilian 
oak and discover that the Wayward Elves are trapped by 
wolves. Oldir and Duvainiel have fallen back against a 
large rock a few yards from the tree: Oldir wields a spear 
to keep the wolves at bay, while his sister’s bow sings. 
Already two Wargs lie dead, but many more circle them 
(there are twice as many Wild Wolves as heroes, pg 111 of 
the Loremaster’s Guide).
Young Tinuhel has retreated into a cave-like gap between 
the roots of the Skybridge oak, carrying a heavy leather 
sack. The Lamp of Balthi must be within. The Elf intended 
to hang the Lamp from the tall tree, but she was surprised 
by the ambush before she could climb it.
In front of the gap where Tinuhel is trapped is one gigantic 
wolf-creature, whose eyes gleam with unholy fire. It is the 
Werewolf of Mirkwood.
When the companions arrive, the Werewolf turns to attack 
them, while the other wolves concentrate on keeping the 
Elves trapped where they are. If the Werewolf is slain, it 
possesses another one of the wolves nearby (see page 96 of 
the Rhovanion Region Guide).
The Company may call out to Tinuhel to let the light of 
the Lamp shine on the wolf, or to use it as a distraction 
or a weapon against the monster. Should they do so, the 
Ringwraith comes…
The Coming of the Nazgûl
While Tinuhel fumbles with the sack, a dark figure steps out 
of the shadow of the trees. It is man-shaped, and wears a 
suit of heavy mail like some black knight out of the East, but 
no face is visible in the visored darkness of the helm. A long 
sword of steel gleams in one gauntleted hand. 
A Ringwraith has come: the Lieutenant of Dol Guldur 
himself. When the Wayward Elves stole the Lamp the 
Werewolf of Mirkwood immediately took notice, and the 
Nazgûl rode out to investigate. Now, the Lamp is almost in 
his grasp. The Ringwraith turns to face the companions, 
while the Werewolf of Mirkwood attacks Tinuhel to take 
the Lamp.
If the companions intend to face the Werewolf of 
Mirkwood AND the Lieutenant of Dol Guldur, they have 
little hope of victory. Escaping without much loss will be 
equally difficult. The heroes might:
10
10

--- PAGE 81 ---
81
• 
Flee! If the companions abandon the Elves and flee, 
they will be unhindered in their effort to leave the 
battlefield. The Werewolf kills Tinuhel and the Nazgûl 
takes the Lamp. The companions will have a chance 
to regain the Lamp in Return to Dol Guldur  (see page 
83) but for the moment the treasure of the Woodmen 
is lost.
• 
Uncover the Lamp! If at least one hero engages 
the Werewolf in melee, then Tinuhel can use her 
action to remove the Lamp and light it. This means 
the hero will face the Werewolf alone this round. 
The uncovered Lamp allows all heroes to gain 
Inspiration. Furthermore, while the Lamp is lit, the 
companions have Advantage and their foes have 
Disadvantage on attack rolls. This effect ends if the 
Lamp is extinguished for any reason.
Aftermath
When the companions return to Woodmen-town, they 
hear stories of Orc raids in several places along the 
Western Eaves. It seems as though the forces of Dol Guldur 
took advantage of the dimming of the Lamp of Balthi to 
attack. 
The Orcs took several prisoners, including, perhaps, 
people close to the companions: friends, family members, 
even rivals might have been captured by the Orcs.
If the companions successfully recovered the Lamp of 
Balthi, then they are welcomed as heroes by the Woodmen. 
Any holdings among the Woodmen increase their Rating 
by 1 immediately (to a maximum of +6), and Woodmen 
heroes might be considered worthy of raising a Hound of 
the West (see below).
8
The Gathering Gloom: 2961-2966

--- PAGE 82 ---
Mirkwood Campaign
82
Year’s End
Legends say that sometimes a hound is born in Mirkwood 
whose lineage hearkens back to the wondrous beasts that 
followed Béma, tamer of animals, when he came to Middle-
earth from West over Sea. Those hounds were gifted with 
greater cunning and strength, and some could even speak 
with words.
A Woodman companion who has laboured tirelessly in 
defense of the Western Eaves and already possesses the 
Hound of Mirkwood virtue might be given a special pup 
to raise. When first given the hound, the character must 
spend the whole Fellowship phase weaning the pup and 
training it. 
A Hound of the West works just like a regular Hound of 
Mirkwood, with the following special abilities:
• 
Tearing Jaws: Add your Proficiency Bonus to the DC 
for the required Strength saving throw effect when it 
bites an enemy.
• 
Bane of Wolves: Wargs and Wolves of the Wild have a 
special dread of the Hounds of the West  – when such a 
hound is involved in a fight, any Warg-kind must make 
a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or be Frightened of the 
hound.
• 
Speech of Mortals: Three times in its life, the Hound 
of the West will speak in the Common Tongue.
All is Lost
If it seems as though all is lost and the entire Company is about to perish, a kind Loremaster can consider the 
intervention of a powerful Loremaster character (a Patron, for example) to rescue them. This sort of deus ex 
machina is never the best way to go, and should be employed only if the players have done something to reasonably 
prompt this intervention. A Wizard always arrives precisely at the right moment, after all. 
Any Wizard, but probably Radagast or Gandalf: The Lamp bursts into a blinding flash that even burns through 
the sack (if the Lamp is still covered) and seems to freeze everything in a blue radiance. The Ringwraith and the 
Werewolf are temporarily dismayed, and the companions may take the opportunity to flee (but must leave the 
Lamp). 
Saruman: The White Wizard steps into the clearing and stands before the Nazgûl. One of the Wargs snarls 
at him. Saruman glances at it, and the beast whimpers and flees. When the Nazgûl raises his sword, Saruman 
commands the Lamp to burn. The bag bursts into flame, as does the fur of the wolves nearby. 
Beorn: Beorn secretly attended the festival at Woodmen-town (well, as secretly as a mountain of a skinchanging 
man-bear can be). He followed the Company into the woods when they went in pursuit of the Elves. He bursts into 
the clearing and charges the Skybridge tree itself, uprooting it with a mighty effort and toppling it down onto the 
Werewolf and the Ringwraith.
Thranduil: The Elvenking learned that the wild Wayward Elves left his domain, and realised what mischief 
they intended. He rode out with some of his warriors, and as they drew near to Woodmen-town they sensed the 
movements of the Lamp. Though Thranduil is not Elrond or Galadriel, nor Thingol of old nor even his father 
Oropher, there is yet power within him, and these are still his woods. Dismayed, the Ringwraith flees.
10

--- PAGE 83 ---
83
- Year 2966 -
For heroes of level 10 or 11
Events
Rumours of gold in the Mountains of Mirkwood draw 
many adventurers, mostly unemployed sell-swords that 
were part of the army that went to the Greydelve in 2964. 
Few of the new visitors find the gloomy woods welcoming, 
and some perish or go missing in the wooded hills. Still, 
seven enterprising Dwarves and their followers establish a 
mining camp some miles east of the source of the Enchanted 
Stream. They find little gold, so they start searching the 
Elven ruins in the mountains looking for buried treasure.
Quarrels with the Wayward Elves grow after the events of 
last year. Thranduil punishes Tinuhel, Oldir and Duvainiel 
(or, at least, those who survived) by sending them to guard 
the northern frontier. Other Elves are displeased by the 
miners and ruffians attracted by the tales of gold in the 
hills to the south.
If Radagast went missing and left after the events of Saving 
the Maiden (page 53) then he returns this year. If he left 
because of his grief, for several weeks he appears as if he 
forgot the art of human speech — he speaks only in grunts 
and animal noises, mixed with a few words of High-elven. 
If he left after breaking his staff, he returns with a new one, 
wearing cleaner robes and a lofty demeanour, courtesy of 
long years studying under Saruman the White.
Word comes from the East Bight that a sickness stalks the 
followers of Ceawin of Sunstead. Many have died, and 
many more are ill. He calls for aid from the healers of the 
Woodmen.
Adventuring Phase: 
Return to Dol Guldur
Having learned of the Orc-raids that occurred last Yule, 
Radagast sends more of his birds and beasts to spy upon 
Dol Guldur. He soon discovers that many prisoners (and 
the Lamp of Balthi, if it was stolen) are currently locked in 
Fenbridge Castle (Rhovanion Region Guide, page 120) — 
heavy rains made the swamps around the area virtually 
impassable, even across the narrow bridge of stone that 
links Fenbridge Castle to Dol Guldur, but the prisoners will 
soon be moved to the dark hold. If the companions are to 
have any hope of rescuing those who were lost, this is their 
best opportunity to do so.
Rescuing the Prisoners
Someone of authority (a patron, perhaps) summons the 
Company to Rhosgobel early that spring. If any of the 
companions travelled with Radagast before (for example, 
sixteen years before - see Secrets Buried, page 20) then it is 
the Brown Wizard who personally insists on seeing them 
with urgency; the same happens if any hero is a relative of 
one of those companions.
Once in Rhosgobel, the companions meet with Radagast, 
and there they must prepare a plan to rescue the prisoners. 
The following matters are discussed:
• 
Dol Guldur is fully rebuilt, and is again a place of terror. 
If the prisoners reach the black hold, the chances of 
rescuing them become desperate. The best opportunity 
for success is to intercept them as they make their way 
through the swampy woodlands north of the fortress.
• 
The Orcs use the Fenbridge to get to Dol Guldur — a 
winding path of some twenty miles through the 
marshes. This is the only safe path through the bogs.
• 
The prisoners will probably be sick, weak and scared. If 
they are to be rescued, then the companions will need 
to have a plan to get them safely across the wilderness. 
• 
The nearest refuge in Mirkwood is the Tyrant’s Hill 
(assuming that Mogdred is an ally of the Woodmen). 
Another option would be to exit the forest going west, 
into the Vales of Anduin. Mirkwood is perilous, but 
it may be easier to slip away from pursuers in the 
darkness of the woods than in the open terrain of the 
Vales.
Radagast believes that the best approach is to cause a 
distraction while the prisoners are rescued. His talents lie 
more in the fields of hiding and healing, so he thinks that he 
should accompany the party sent to rescue the prisoners.
10
The Gathering Gloom: 2961-2966

--- PAGE 84 ---
Mirkwood Campaign
84
If Gandalf is present, then he volunteers to create a 
diversion. “I have some small talent with fireworks,” he 
says, puffing on his pipe. 
Beorn, if present, grunts and says that he will make sure 
that all the watchers in Dol Guldur are looking the wrong 
way at the right time.
If none of these are present, then the companions must 
come up with their own distraction. They might seek out 
help (from Beorn, Thranduil or some other power), gather 
forces to launch a sortie against Dol Guldur, or plan to 
attack some other outpost of the enemy such as the Tyrant’s 
Hill or Fenbridge Castle).
To Fenbridge Castle 
Radagast the Brown accompanies the companions and 
his arts make the journey shorter and less dangerous. 
Assuming the journey starts at Black Tarn Hall, it then 
covers forty miles across the Narrows of the Forest, then 
the Company trudges through fifty miles of deep forest 
across Southern Mirkwood. It takes the Company two 
weeks at a Peril Rating of 5 with 1d2+1 Journey Events for 
the heroes to arrive in sight of Fenbridge Castle. As soon 
as the Company reaches its destination, each companion 
will have to pass a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw against 
Corruption every day.
If the companions encounter any spies or agents of the 
enemy, then they must take care to ensure that word of 
their presence does not reach Dol Guldur – secrecy is all-
important if this rescue is to be successful.
 
As the companions draw closer to the Fenbridge, each 
hero must make a DC 10 Dexterity (Stealth) check to 
avoid being spotted by an Orc patrol. In case of a failure, 
the Company is chased through the trees. The heroes must 
either evade the Orcs, or turn and slay them all.
At the Fenbridge
Ahead, the moss-stained walls of Fenbridge Castle rise 
from the murk. The castle is built on the remains of itself. 
The towers and walls sink slipshod into the soft ground, 
and when one topples, the Orcs build on top of the ruins. 
One day, the castle will have a firm foundation of its own 
past incarnations, but that time is far ahead in the future. 
Now, Fenbridge is a ramshackle hulk of stone and wood, 
a fortress that rots from within. Orcs watch from its walls, 
and bats flitter overhead. The howling of Wargs masks the 
moans of the unfortunate slaves trapped within its grim 
walls.
Fenbridge Castle has two gates. One faces north-east, the 
other south-west. A path, now mostly overgrown, runs up 
to the north-east gate. The Fenbridge itself leads out from 
the southern gate. At the start, the bridge is a causeway 
supported by stone pillars dug deep into the mire, and 
stands more than a dozen feet above the surrounding 
terrain. Later, the path drops into the swamp and it becomes 
hard to tell stone from sucking mud.
A black squirrel darts out of the trees and bids the Company 
to follow it. This is one of Radagast’s creatures, and it leads 
the Company through a narrow defile in the woods that 
conceals their passage from the sentries in the Fenbridge. 
The defile leads to the edge of the marsh. For as far as the 
eye can see (admittedly, in Mirkwood, that usually means 
”to the end of your arm on a good day”) is a wasteland of 
stagnant pools, mud, weeds and tangled roots. Off to the 
left, the Fenbridge runs south, and the Company can see 
the occasional flare of torchlight as Orcs patrol it.
Stalking the Foe
One wet and misty morning, the prisoners leave the castle 
in chains. The grim procession is guarded by a dozen Orc 
soldiers, six Orc Guards and a mean-looking Hill-Troll Chief 
carrying a spiked buckler of iron. (If the Lamp of Balthi was 
captured, then in place of the Hill-Troll Chief there are two 
Hill-Trolls carrying a heavy chest between them).
There are fifteen chained prisoners. Most of them were 
taken when the enemy attacked the Woodmen last Yule; 
others were captured several years ago. If any of the 
Company’s allies or kin were kidnapped or disappeared 
in previous adventures, they may be among the prisoners. 
Maghaz himself leads the group, although the canny 
old Orc is careful to have a pair of big Orc Guards at the 
head of the procession, while he stays near the Hill-troll 
(or Trolls) – if any sneaky Elf archer is in the woods, he’d 
prefer for someone else to take the place of honour and any 
associated arrow!
The prisoners travel around five miles per day, as both Orcs 
and prisoners are laden with heavy loads. This means it 
10
10
10

--- PAGE 85 ---
85
takes the convoy almost four days to move through the 
swamps to Dol Guldur.
• 
The area around Dol Guldur makes for exceedingly 
hard going. Every companion must make a DC 15 
Wisdom saving throw against Corruption. A failure 
with a natural ‘1’ means that the heroes must each 
make a DC 10 Dexterity (Stealth) saving throw or be 
spotted by the Orcs.
The companions can choose to launch their ambush at any 
time. If they wait for a day or two, then it will be unlikely 
that Maghaz will receive reinforcements from Dol Guldur or 
Fenbridge Castle, but they will be right in the middle of the 
marsh with their rescued prisoners.
The Ambush
When the companions are ready, then Radagast sends a 
sparrow to signal the time to attack to whatever allies lie 
in wait to cause a diversion. An hour later, the distraction 
begins. In the distance, the companions hear the sound of 
whatever they have agreed to make happen. The diversion 
is aimed at the watchful eyes in Dol Guldur and Fenbridge 
Castle, not at the Orcs guarding the prisoners. 
The Orc procession halts on a little grassy hillock. Maghaz 
sends three Orc-guards off to investigate, while he 
commands the Orc Soldiers to get into a defensive position 
on the hillock. The prisoners are made to sit on top of it, 
while the Orcs form a ring around the prisoners, facing out, 
while Maghaz and the remaining three Orc Guards keep 
order inside. The Hill-troll takes position on the causeway 
(if there are two Trolls, one remains close to the hillock, 
guarding the chest containing the Lamp).
Attempting to ambush the Orcs in their defensive position 
would be a difficult fight. Luckily for them, Radagast has 
something in mind: he starts whistling softly using a small 
clay flute, and in a short while the whole forest surrounding 
the Orcs and the Company comes alive with the chirping 
of birds, the croaking of frogs and the hissing of snakes. 
The echo of the animal voices is so bewildering that if the 
companions attack now, they will Surprise their foes. Still, 
the companions face stiff opposition. They will require all 
their strength, heart and wits to overcome their enemies.
The Chest of the Lamp
If the Company recapture the Lamp, they find it is 
locked inside a heavy chest. A companion can make a DC 
20 Dexterity check to pick the lock. If the companions 
cannot open the chest, they will have to carry  it: it 
is so heavy and awkward that the hero’s speed is 
reduced by 20 feet and the hero has Disadvantage on 
ability checks, attack rolls and saving throws that use 
Strength, Dexterity or Constitution.
10
The Gathering Gloom: 2961-2966

--- PAGE 86 ---
Mirkwood Campaign
86
Escape!
Once the companions rescue the prisoners, they can flee 
across the marsh. It takes two days to reach the edge of the 
marsh if the companions ambushed the Orcs near Fenbridge 
Castle or Dol Guldur, or four days if they ambushed the 
Orcs midway through the march across the causeway. This 
stage has a 1 Journey Event with a Peril Rating of 5.
At the edge of the swamp, the companions have a choice. If 
they head straight West in order to gain open ground, they 
must face 1 more Journey Event at Peril Rating 5. Once they 
reach open ground, they will be pursued (see below) until 
they reach Rhosgobel or another Sanctuary. 
Otherwise, the heroes must make their way through the 
Narrows of the Forest to the Western Eaves. This will take 
ten days and produces 1d2 Journey Events with a Peril 
Rating of 4. They will be pursued as well, although they will 
have a greater chance to elude their foes.
For the length of their flight, each time a companion rolls 
a natural ‘1’, a prisoner has succumbed to the dangers of 
the escape. They must either be carried (causing a hero’s 
movement to be reduced by 10 feet and possibly increasing 
the overall travel time) or abandoned. Leaving behind an 
exhausted survivor causes each hero to gain 5 Shadow 
points.
Pursuit!
Dol Guldur does not let its prisoners go so easily. Once 
the surviving Orcs raise the alarm, the Lieutenant of Dol 
Guldur storms out of the fortress with Wild Wolves and 
Snaga Trackers in his wake. Each day, the companions 
must pass a group check with each hero making either a 
Wisdom (Survival) or Dexterity (Stealth) check to evade 
their pursuers; the DC for these checks is 13 in Mirkwood 
or 15 on open ground. Three successful group checks in 
a row means they have evaded the hunters; three failed 
checks means the enemy catches them. 
If the companions manage to return home with the 
prisoners and the recovered Lamp, they are hailed as 
heroes by the folk of the Wood. A feast is held in their 
honour: heroes with holdings in the area have their Holding 
Upkeep check DC reduced by 2.
The Lamp is Lost
If disaster strikes and the Lamp of Balthi is lost to the 
shadows of Dol Guldur, then the companions will have 
to recover it somehow, or the woods will soon be lost to 
the Shadow. Fortunately, the secret passageway used 
by Gandalf to enter Dol Guldur is still open, so the 
companions can creep into the tunnels under the Hill. 
Surviving and escaping that hellish place, though, is 
extremely unlikely.
Year’s End
Companions who took part in the saving of the prisoners 
from Dol Guldur and who do not belong to the Woodmen 
may choose the Receive Title (Hero of the Woodmen) 
undertaking this year (see page 201 of the Player’s Guide 
and below).
Receive Title (Hero of the Woodmen)
The companion is invited by the Council of Elders 
to become a member of the folk of the Woodmen, as 
a recognition for his deeds. To accept the title, the 
adventurer must spend the Fellowship phase in any 
Woodman settlement of the Western Eaves and choose 
the Receive Title undertaking.
The hero can freely dwell in a guest-house in Woodmen-
town, or in a cottage in Rhosgobel, or maybe even in 
a tree-house in Woodland Hall (or in a house in Black 
Tarn Hall or Sunstead). The comfort of the lodging 
should be proportionate to the character’s Standard of 
Living.
8
8
10

--- PAGE 87 ---
87
The Years of the 
plague:
- 2967-2974 -
Mirkwood is plagued by a wasting sickness that claims 
innumerable lives. The Woodland Realm is besieged by 
evil creatures from the Mountains of Mirkwood, and the 
paths through the forest are threatened. The power in 
Dol Guldur stirs and shakes the foundations of all realms 
in Wilderland.
- Year 2967 -
For heroes of level 11 or 12
Events
One of the smaller settlements in the East Bight vanishes 
during the winter. Scouts from Sunstead find that the 
village was abandoned, but there are no clear signs as to 
why nearly a hundred settlers fled their homes. Carved 
into one post in the longhouse, though, are the runes for 
the word “Raegenhere”.
Many throughout Mirkwood (those with a Shadow rating 
of 3 or more) suffer from terrible dreams this year. They 
are tormented by visions of death and suffering, including 
the deaths of family members and friends. Companions 
afflicted by these dreams must make a DC 15 Wisdom 
saving throw against Corruption, gaining 1 Shadow point 
upon a failure.
For several weeks in the autumn of this year, the magic 
of the Elvenking seems to fail. Spiders swarm onto the 
Elf-path, occupying a long stretch of the track from the 
Enchanted Stream to the edge of Western Mirkwood.
Adventuring Phase: 
Treachery in the Woods
This adventure takes place in Thranduil’s Halls in the 
Woodland Realm. If the companions are regular visitors 
to the Halls, then they may be in attendance at the 
Elvenking’s court when this adventure begins. Otherwise, 
they may be visiting the court on other business, or be 
part of King Bard’s mission to the Elves. After recent 
troubles, King Bard decides to court the favour of his 
ally, the Elvenking. He dispatches a group of nobles 
and ambassadors from Dale to bring gifts to Thranduil, 
and to discuss the quarrels with the foresters along the 
eastern eaves of the Woodland Realm and other disputes. 
Emissaries also go from Lake-town and — grudgingly — 
from Erebor.
The envoys gather in Esgaroth, then take a boat through the 
marshes and up the Forest River to the gates of the Halls, 
where they wait for an audience with the Elvenking. 
The Years of the Plague: 2967-2974

--- PAGE 88 ---
Mirkwood Campaign
88
Affairs of Court
Attending the Elvenking’s court is an Audience; Thranduil’s 
Motivation and Expectations are given on page 84 of the 
Rhovanion Region Guide. If the companions wish to discuss 
matters of war or security, then he listens attentively: heroes 
who propose plans to fortify the Woodland Realm gain a +1 
modifier, those who accuse the Elvenking of isolationism 
receive a -2 modifier. On matters of trade, lore or the cause 
of the growing darkness, he is willing to listen but only 
extraordinary results will move Thranduil — his heart is 
heavy with some dark foreboding but he does not know the 
shape of things yet. The Company may also have business 
with the delegates from Dale or Lake-town.
The visitors are feasted and entertained by the Elves for two 
days. Notably, old Halbrech the Wineseller – now nearly 
sixty years old and a source of fascination for the immortal 
Elves – breaks out the finest vintages, including a special 
treat brought from over the Misty Mountains and far away: 
a few bottles of wine from the vineyards of the Southfarthing 
in the Shire! If they never met her before, Halbrech also 
introduces his daughter Hanna to the visitors. She is now 
seventeen years old, and serves as her father’s scribe and 
assistant; it is clear that Halbrech intends for Hanna to take 
over the role his grandfather and father held before him.
The Treachery of the Wineseller
Secretly, Halbrech has once again fallen under the Shadow. 
Many years ago, he was a spy in the Elvenking’s Halls 
(see the adventure Secrets Buried, page 20), and now the 
Ringwraiths of Dol Guldur have called on him to serve 
again. The Woodland Realm is too strong to assault directly, 
but it can still fall to treachery.
The Messenger of Mordor himself rode to the Woodland 
Realm, and one foggy night the black-cloaked figure met 
Halbrech in a spot near the village of the Raft-elves. After 
many years without contact with the Shadow the wineseller 
was overwhelmed with terror, and accepted trembling a 
vial of poison from the gauntleted hands of the Ringwraith, 
along with precise instructions on how to employ it.
The plan is to poison the Elvenking’s own reserve of 
Dorwinion wine, the one meant for the king’s feasts only. 
This special vintage will be served at the end of the second 
day of the gathering, to celebrate any treaty or agreement 
the envoys may have stipulated with the Elvenking - or 
to sweeten the bitter taste of failure. The council will be 
restricted to the more important envoys, and Halbrech 
plans to leave his daughter Hanna out of it, to avoid any risk 
of her tasting the poisoned wine. This concern, added to the 
wine-seller’s great fear of the Ringwraiths, makes Halbrech 
extremely nervous and unusually gloomy. A successful DC 
20 Wisdom (Insight) check made during the first day of 
the gathering notices that Hanna seems concerned about 
her father’s health, although Halbrech seems hale and 
strong for a man of his years.
A Cup of Poison
The attendants of the second day of the council are the most 
important notables sent from Dale, Esgaroth and Erebor. 
At this point of the campaign, it is difficult to determine 
who exactly these prominent personalities are, but the 
Loremaster should make sure these are figures known to 
the companions, and possibly dear to them. The Elvenking 
is included among them. It is also likely that the heroes 
themselves are counted in the restricted council, if their 
renown allows for it. All who take part in the council risk 
their lives, as the assassination attempt aims to rob the 
folks of the North of several dignitaries in one fell blow.
A Loving Daughter
The companions have a better chance to avoid this 
dreadful fate if they befriend Halbrech’s daughter 
Hanna (or if they befriended her on a previous 
occasion). Hanna is very worried about her father. He 
is nothing like his usual self, a change that is escaping 
both the guests and the Elves, who rarely concern 
themselves with the moods of mortals, but something 
that a loving daughter will never fail to notice. If the 
companions confront Halbrech before the end of the 
second day, the wineseller first denies everything, then 
tries to ascertain if the heroes are capable of keeping 
his daughter safe; as his actions will demonstrate, 
he has already forfeited his own life (see Halbrech’s 
Fate, overleaf), but might reconsider bringing his 
plan to completion if he is convinced that Hanna has 
nothing to fear from the retaliation of the Messenger 
of Mordor - the Ringwraith promised to torture and 
slay him and his family if he refused to carry out the 
treacherous plan. 
11
3

--- PAGE 89 ---
89
A Bitter Hour
If the companions remain completely oblivious to what 
is happening behind their backs, then disaster strikes. 
Everyone who drinks from the poisoned wine contracts a 
fierce form of the malady known as the Black Shadow (see 
page 127) and slips into a fevered sleep lasting several days.
• 
A companion who drinks the poison is Unconscious 
for eight days. Each day the hero must make a DC 
15 Wisdom saving throw or gain 1 Shadow point 
(this is reduced to DC 10 if tended to by someone 
familiar with The Weapons of the Enemy (see the 
Player’s Guide, page 68). If the victim’s Shadow rating 
overcomes his Wisdom score before the end of the 
eight-day period, then the character slips into ever 
deeper dreams and dies. If the victim resists for eight 
days, he finally overcomes his sickness and wakes up 
(but maintains the new Shadow score).
• 
All non-player characters who took part in the council 
becomes violently sick and eventually die. If the 
Loremaster needs a random method to determine 
who lives or dies then each victim may make a DC 15 
Wisdom saving throw with Disadvantage, surviving 
only if they succeed. 
• 
The Elvenking himself drinks deeply from the 
Dorwinion reserve, and falls unconscious along with 
the other victims. But the blood of Thranduil is stronger 
than that of most of those who live in Middle-earth and 
it eventually overcomes the poison that burns in its 
veins. But for the Elvenking the struggle lasts for years 
instead of days… (see The Ailing King below).
The Ailing King
If Thranduil is poisoned, then his son Legolas and 
a trusted circle of advisors step up to lead the realm 
while the Elvenking heals. During this period of 
interregnum, the Wayward Elves gains more and more 
clout, as the Silvan Elves become ever more reclusive 
and parochial. An adventure focused on finding a cure 
for the ailing king might lead the companions to seek 
help in distant lands, such as the elusive stronghold of 
Rivendell, or the fabled Golden Wood of Lothlórien. If 
Thranduil is left to his own devices, then he wakes up 
three years later, in the year 2970.
Halbrech’s Fate 
Whether the wineseller succeeded in poisoning the 
ambassadors and the Elvenking or not, Halbrech’s fate 
is sealed. The traitor doesn’t wait to be discovered: if the 
companions seek him out, they find him in the deepest 
cellar of the halls, standing next to the open trapdoor. The 
sound of the rushing river echoes through the chamber. 
11
9
The Years of the Plague: 2967-2974

--- PAGE 90 ---
Mirkwood Campaign
90
If confronted, Halbrech admits everything this time – for 
many years, he has been in the service of Dol Guldur. They 
tricked him into spying for them, long ago, and now he is 
involved too deeply to have any hope left. He has seen the 
shadows that dwell in Dol Guldur, he knows their plans. 
Already, the forest grows darker, and soon all Mirkwood 
will be theirs. Against this Enemy, there can be no victory.
And he hurls himself down the trapdoor to perish in the 
waters below.
Searching Halbrech’s room reveals a false bottom in one 
chest of clothes; inside are sketches of the Halls, notes 
on its defences, and estimates of the number of warriors 
in Thranduil’s command. These notes are written in the 
Common tongue, and are clearly more recent versions of 
the notes found in Dol Guldur all those years ago.
Year’s End
Companions may choose the Search for Answers 
undertaking this year to investigate the name “Raegenhere”. 
If they do, they may learn it was the name of one of the old 
kings of the Northmen who lies buried in a barrow under 
Mirkwood. In fact – it is the very barrow that the Company 
visited in The Helm of Peace (see page 25).
An ill wind blows out of Dol Guldur in the coming years. 
This evil breath carries a virulent plague, and many 
among the Woodmen start to sicken and die. In time, 
the illness spreads throughout the North, as the plague 
spreads through contact, but also seems to seep down 
from the mould that grows on the blackened trees. Only 
the Elves seem immune to the terrible disease. The plague 
starts with a racking cough, a fever, weakness, and aches 
in the arms and legs. If the victim is lucky, then this is as 
far as the plague goes, and the fortunate fellow recovers 
within a few weeks. 
The second stage of the plague comes in the form of 
strange, yellowish pustules. These growths start around 
the nose and mouth, but quickly spread to the hands. These 
pustules weep a clear liquid that carries the infection. 
This stage of the plague is almost always lethal. If the 
pustules dry up and become hard, warty growths, then 
the victim is sure to die. 
The third stage of the plague signals the approach 
of death. The warts spread all over the victim’s body, 
sometimes growing into weird bark-like formations. The 
patient’s limbs convulse, then lock into twisted, agonising 
positions. The patient’s muscles freeze, preventing them 
from moving, eating or doing anything but drawing 
shallow, terrified breaths and staring out from the prison 
of their own flesh. This strange stiffness does not relent 
with death; in fact, it gets worse. The warts turn brown 
or grey as the patient dies, so the twisted rigour mortis 
of the victim resembles nothing so much as a fallen tree 
limb. It is as though the forest of Mirkwood claims the 
dead, absorbing them into its gloomy realm.
The Plague of Mirkwood
Treating the Plague
Scholars may use their Healing dice in order to treat victims of the plague. Other heroes (such as those with the 
Leechcraft speciality or suitable non-player characters) can make a DC 10 Wisdom (Medicine) check in order to 
grant the target Advantage on a saving throw for each stage (see Companions & The Plague, opposite).
Treating the plague requires nearly constant care. A healer can only treat a number of patients equal to their 
Proficiency Bonus. 
11

--- PAGE 91 ---
91
- Year 2968 -
For heroes of level 11 or 12
Events
While travelling in Mirkwood, the companions come across 
a recently abandoned camp. The ashes of the fire are cold, 
but the camp was inhabited up to a week ago. Searching 
around, they find a recently-dug mass grave where at least 
a dozen bodies lie.
A hideous vampire-bat flits down the Mountains of 
Mirkwood and makes its hellish nest in the trees near the 
residence of one of the companions. The monster proceeds 
to suck the blood from one of the companion’s relatives, 
children or friends. Unless the companions discover the 
vampire and deal with it, the victim sickens and dies.
This year, rumours speak of eerie lights flickering in the 
depths of the forest. Some tales claim that the lights hover 
above buried treasure; others say that the lights are Elvish 
trickery, and those who follow them will become lost in 
Mirkwood and wander until they perish.
Word comes from the north of trouble at King Bard’s court. 
Some of the nobles of Dale have grown greedy and proud. 
As wealth and prosperity continues to make the kingdom 
stronger, some nobles agitate for Bard to exert his power 
more. They want Dale to seize the eastern woodlands from 
the Elves, so there will be firewood for the winter and timber 
for building, and to reclaim Lake-town and its rich trade for 
the kingdom.
Beorn decides that the time has come for him to take a wife. 
His bride might be the daughter of a simple farmer, a princess 
of the Woodmen or a strange woman from the mountains. 
Perhaps he marries one of the companions! In any event, 
heroes from all over Wilderland attend his wedding at the 
Carrock. Afterwards, it is said that Beorn’s joyous laughter 
was so loud it echoed off the Misty Mountains and could 
be heard from the Vales of Gundabad to the Falls of Rauros.
Adventuring Phase: 
Nine in the Hall
This adventure takes place in the East Bight, during the 
winter. There are many reasons why the companions might 
be in Sunstead during this time of year:
Companions & the Plague
Heroes deserve heroic deaths, but life – and death – is not always fair. If the companions expose themselves to the 
plague (for example, they are trapped inside a building with the plague-ridden for days, or they heroically enter a 
plagued village to rescue a victim) they run the risk of infection. When this happens, the Loremaster may require 
a DC 10 Constitution saving throw. If failed, the victim suffers the first stage of the disease… the companion is 
Poisoned and gains one level of Exhaustion. Once these have been treated (or a week’s time has passed), the hero 
must make another DC 10 Constitution saving throw. On a success, the plague progresses no further and the hero is 
immune to further exposure.
If the second saving throw is failed then the illness has progressed to the second stage. The companion is Stunned and 
gains 1d3 levels of Exhaustion. After these conditions are treated (or another week passes) then the hero must make 
a DC 15 Constitution saving throw. With a failure, the plague progresses to the third stage and the victim perishes. 
On a success, the illness has begun to retreat… each day the hero must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw. 
On a failure, he gains a level of Exhaustion. On a success, the fever breaks and the hero is cured and does not need 
to fear the plague again.
The plague is weaker outside Mirkwood. Beyond the forest eaves, heroes make their saving throws with Advantage.
The Years of the Plague: 2967-2974

--- PAGE 92 ---
Mirkwood Campaign
92
• 
They might be there to investigate rumours of the 
plague.
• 
Ceawin called for their aid in fighting some threat.
• 
They are inquiring about the disappearance of the 
village (see the entry for last year).
• 
Their work with Bofri the Dwarf brings them to the 
forests of the East Bight.
• 
They return from a journey to the East or South and 
shelter in Sunstead for the winter.
The adventure begins when the companions take shelter 
in a longhouse for the winter. If the Company failed to 
save Ceawin from the Wood-wight in The Helm of Peace, 
then they stay in Ceawin’s own great house in Sunstead. 
Otherwise, the longhouse is one on the north side of the 
East Bight, ruled by a warrior named Mordern.
Secrets of the House
The lord of the longhouse hides a secret. If that lord is 
Ceawin, then the circumstances by which he became 
a thrall of the Wood-wights are already known to the 
Loremaster. If the companions are staying under the roof 
of Mordern, then their host became possessed when he 
stole from one of the barrows in the shadows of the wood. 
Throughout this adventure, the lord of the house is 
referred to as the Host; replace references to the Host 
with either Ceawin or Mordern, as appropriate. In either 
case, the possessing Wood-wight was an ancient king of 
the Northmen, by the name of Raegenhere. He intends to 
murder everyone in the hall, one by one. 
The Haunted Hall
When the companions first arrive at the longhouse they are 
looking for shelter from a terrible snowstorm. There are fell 
voices on the winds that carry the snow, and the bite of 
the cold is ferocious (each companion must make a DC 10 
Constitution saving throw, taking 14 (4d6) cold damage 
on a failure, or half damage on a success). The weather 
shows no sign of abating; the companions must take 
shelter or perish. Knocking at the door of the longhouse 
they are greeted by the Host. If they have not had dealing 
with the host before, then an introduction might be in order 
- Traditions will be best, but Persuasion will do as well - 
the Host, of course, welcomes them in (the check is DC 15… 
the Host still welcomes them on a failure but other visitors 
in the hall may be suspicious of them).
There are eight other guests staying in the Hall tonight.
• 
Old Geleswinta: The mother of the Host, this old 
crone is toothless, blind and more than half mad. She 
knows that her son is not what he appears to be – that 
another spirit inhabits his flesh – but she dares not 
speak openly of the truth to foreigners.
 
Geleswinta is off-putting and alarming. Gasp for breath, 
mutter to yourself, and try to warn the companions of 
the danger without ever mentioning the Host.
• 
Grimfried: A taciturn forester and warrior, recently 
returned from the war fought to reclaim the Greydelve. 
He brought gold and settled in Sunstead, but when his 
treasure ran out, so too did his welcome, for Grimfried 
is a violent and unpleasant man. He intends to travel to 
the Tyrant’s Hill once the trail clears.
 
Grimfried clearly lusts after Berana, as well as any 
suitable female companions. He’s a lecherous lout who 
tries to buy women with gold – or takes them by force, 
if the opportunity arises.
• 
Burin the Dwarf Merchant: A Dwarf from the Lonely 
Mountain, Burin came to Sunstead to trade and was 
caught by the storm. He has a fat purse of gold, and 
suspects that everyone else is trying to rob him. He 
wants to leave as soon as he can. 
 
Burin is suspicious and miserly – he’s the worst sort of 
money-obsessed Dwarf. He is not a coward, and will 
aid the companions if pressed, but any heroism in him 
is buried very deeply indeed.
• 
Ingel, Berana and Radagasa: Ingel and Berana are 
a young couple who settled in the East Bight some years 
ago; their daughter Radagasa is four years old. Ingel is 
a simple farmer, with a remarkably beautiful wife. The 
roof of their cottage collapsed under the weight of the 
snow, so they fled to this hall for shelter.
 
7

--- PAGE 93 ---
93
These three are innocent victims in this affair. They are 
simple folk, trying to survive on the edge of Mirkwood, 
unprepared for the darkness to come.
• 
Gwina:  Featured in Rhovanion Region Guide (page 
111), Gwina is a trader from Dorwinion. She has 
travelled far in her lifetime, but now she grows old and 
intends to settle down in Lake-town. She came to the 
East Bight to visit one of her former crewmen who lives 
here, a man named Signar, but she found no sign of 
him (he is a previous victim of the Host). 
• 
The Ill-favoured Man:  His name is Angivisell; sharp-
toothed and cruel-eyed, he looks like there is Orcish 
blood in his ancestry. He arrives after the companions 
have entered the hall and is a spy for Dol Guldur. 
 
Angivisell is not the villain in this adventure. He suffers 
from the plague that is about to descend on Mirkwood, 
and dies from his infection early in the adventure.
The Host and The Hall
The Host is either Ceawin or Mordern. If it is Mordern, then 
he is a tall, strong man. He is no longer young, but has the 
corded muscles and deep-set strength of one who has toiled 
and fought all his life. This hall is his home and his domain, 
and he speaks with a commanding voice. A huge great axe 
hangs above the hearth.
The Host’s hall is a fine building, one of the strongest in 
Sunstead. The walls are stone for the most part, with heavy 
wooden doors. The roof is thatched, and supported by eight 
huge wooden pillars carved from tree-trunks. The floor is 
entirely covered with skins and rich rugs to keep away the 
cold. There are three exits – the front door, the stable door, 
and a small side door.
The hall consists of one main room, with storerooms and 
stables at the back. There are  cramped sleeping quarters 
in a loft above the door. While there are small lamps to 
illuminate the hall, the Host ran out of lamp-oil some weeks 
ago, so the only light comes from the  flickering flames of 
the fire in the hearth – most of the hall is in darkness.
Hidden beneath the rugs and skins and stuffed into the 
thatch are the remains of the host’s previous victims. More 
than thirty corpses – or the parts of thirty corpses, at any 
rate – lie hidden here, frozen stiff and caked with blood.
The timing on the following events is left deliberately loose. 
The adventure might take place over several days or in a 
single night.
Dinner in the Hall
The Host invites the companions to dine with him and his 
other guests. Supplies run low, but he still has one last goat 
to slaughter. He hefts his axe and goes to the back room to 
7
The Years of the Plague: 2967-2974

--- PAGE 94 ---
Mirkwood Campaign
94
kill the animal. Gwina and Berana prepare the meal, while 
Grimfried gets drunk on mead and shares lustful comments 
with Burin and anyone else who will listen.
• 
The Loremaster should use the dinner to briefly 
introduce the other guests. Everyone is worried about 
this unnatural winter, but are hopeful that the storm 
will break soon and that spring will come on its heels. 
• 
Burin is suspicious of the companions, and accuses 
them of being brigands (unless there is a Dwarf in the 
Company, in which case he confides in his kinsman). 
The Ill-favoured Man Arrives
There is a knock at the door, a frantic hammering. It is the 
Ill-Favoured Man. If allowed entry to the hall, he speaks of 
seeing white faces amid the snow, and claims that the hall 
is surrounded. If the companions investigate (once again 
needing to make a Constitution saving throw, as above), 
they find that the firewood that was stacked by the side 
door is gone. There are several strange prints in the snow – 
the footprints of booted Wood-wights.
• 
The Ill-Favoured man is sick. He coughs and shivers 
even after warming himself by the fire, and his spittle 
is flecked with blood. Any character proficient with 
Medicine notices that he has alarming pustules on his 
neck and behind his ears, suggesting that his illness is 
some sort of plague.
• 
Each companion must make a DC 10 Constitution 
saving throw at this point (see Companions & 
the Plague, page 91). The reason for the roll is left 
unspecified by the Loremaster, who may hint that the 
companions may be infected by the plague if they roll 
badly.
Burin Vanishes
The Dwarf wanders into the darkness of the hall – and 
does not return. He could have crept out the side door or 
the stable door without anyone noticing and most people 
in the hall assume that the unpleasant Dwarf slipped out 
without saying farewell.
• 
A successful DC 15 Intelligence (Investigation) finds 
a pouch of coins (worth 10g in total) forgotten in a 
corner.
The Sick Child
Young Radagasa starts coughing, and soon develops a 
fever. A successful DC 10 Wisdom (Medicine) is required 
to keep her conscious.
• 
All companions must now make a DC 15 Wisdom 
saving throw against Corruption (gaining 1 Shadow on 
a failure) as the night draws in and an unnatural terror 
seems to fall upon everyone in the house.
No Firewood
The fire runs low and needs fuel. The firewood that was 
stacked outside the door is gone. Someone needs to go fetch 
more wood; there is a stand of trees only a short distance 
away, but someone has to go and chop it.
• 
Any companions who go out to fetch wood are attacked 
by Wood-wights. The spectres leer out of the swirling 
snow and seem to vanish into the wild white landscape 
(the Loremaster applies the Wights’ Horror of the 
Wood ability).
• 
Once it becomes clear that the hall is under siege by 
spectres, everyone must pass make another DC 15 
Wisdom saving throw or gain 1 Shadow point.
The Ill-favoured Man Dies 
Angivisell succumbs to his illness. He doubles over in pain, 
then coughs and chokes, spitting blood over everyone 
nearby.
• 
Anyone who was near Angivisell when he died must 
make a DC 10 Constitution saving throw again to 
check for infection from the plague.
Grimfried’s Lust
Drunk on mead and half-convinced that everyone in the 
hall is doomed anyway, Grimfried attacks Berana. Berana’s 
husband Ingel tries to stop the warrior, but Grimfried is 
much stronger and smashes Ingel to the floor. It is up to the 
Company to stop Grimfried.
• 
The Host stands by and does not react, while Gwina 
comforts the sick child.
7
7
7
7
7
7

--- PAGE 95 ---
95
• 
Assuming they restrain Grimfried, Ingel demands that 
they throw the warrior out of the hall as punishment 
for his crime.
Siege of the Wights
The companions hear scratching coming from outside. The 
Wood-wights are coming! Soon, bony fists hammer on the 
doors, and the spectres try to claw their way inside.
• 
The Wood-wights’ goal is to sow terror, not to kill the 
companions – that is an honour reserved for their 
chieftain, the Host. Therefore, the spectres demand that 
the companions give them a sacrifice by handing over 
one of the living in the hall.
• 
If the companions refuse, the Wood-wights laugh 
mockingly and say that they will take what they want 
before the storm breaks. They will take everyone.
 
• 
If the companions agree, they must choose who to 
sacrifice. The mad old woman? The dying child? The 
thuggish warrior? One of their own? Handing over a 
victim in this fashion is a Misdeed worthy of 3 or more 
Shadow points.
The Herb
Geleswinta volunteers to help with the sick child and 
hobbles over to examine her. After poking and prodding 
Radagasa for a few minutes, she mutters about a herb that 
can help with fever. It is called simbelmynë, and is a white 
flower that grows on certain mounds and ditches. Place 
it in boiling water, she says, and let the child breathe the 
vapours.
• 
Any companion with the Herb-lore or Leechcraft 
specialties recognises simbelmynë  (Evermind in the 
Common tongue, uilos in Sindarin). It is a white flower 
that grows on the barrows of the dead. It has no known 
healing power, but common wisdom attributes it the 
power to keep the dead safe from the influence of evil 
spirits.
There are mounds just within the forest edge where 
Evermind may yet be found amid the snows. Ideally, some 
of the Company leave the hall in search of the herb, while 
others stay behind to defend against the lurking Wood-
wights.
Those who go in search of the herb are beset by Woodwights, 
who try to capture them and bury them in the mounds, 
dressed in burial shrouds and grave goods. 
• 
The Dwarf Burin lies there already, killed by terror.
• 
If the companions played through The Helm of Peace, 
then they recognise these mounds as the same ones 
they (or their previous characters!) visited all those 
years ago. The largest mound is empty. Runes on the 
wall read “Raegenhere King sleeps here / until the 
world’s ending. Cursed be he who moves these bones / 
And cursed be the Wight that wears them.”
• 
On another wall is a carving of a great king — 
presumably Raegenhere — wielding a magnificent axe. 
It is the same axe carried by the Host.
Blood Dripping
Meanwhile, back in the hall, one of the other survivors 
throws more wood on the fire. The flames blaze up, 
bringing a pleasant heat to the icy hall. For a moment, it is 
almost as though the end of the storm has come and that 
the nightmare is over. Then blood starts to drip from the 
ceiling, as the heat from the fire thaws some of the frozen 
bodies hidden in the thatch. 
• 
Seeing that is certainly a source of Anguish, and is 
worth another Corruption check (1 Shadow point if the 
hero fails the saving throw).
Escaping the Hall
The Host waits for the companions to weaken, as they 
face the various threats of the haunted hall. But soon the 
possessed lord of the hall will make his move and attack; 
he will swing his great axe with one hand, while he claws 
at his opponents with the other. Hopefully, by that time the 
companions will have realised that the hall is not a place of 
safety, and will not be taken excessively by surprise - their 
task will become to rescue the remaining victims from the 
Host’s clutches and defeat the spirit.
• 
When a direct confrontation with the Host is finally 
reached, there is one Wood-wight per companion, as 
well as Raegenhere himself (see his stats below). The 
Wood-wights flee if Raegenhere is defeated. 
7
9
7
The Years of the Plague: 2967-2974

--- PAGE 96 ---
Mirkwood Campaign
96
• 
Geleswinta’s mumblings about the herb have more 
than a grain of truth in them – if Evermind flowers are 
thrown in boiling water, then the steam that rises in the 
hall weakens the bond that ties the spirit of Raegenhere 
to its host body (Ceawin or Mordern). The spectral form 
of the Wight flows of out of the victim’s body and hangs 
in the air like some nightmare made real.
• 
Defeating Raegenhere’s physical form results also in the 
death of the host body. While disembodied, the Wight 
can be slain only if struck by his own axe. Otherwise, it 
flees into the night.
Raegenhere
Medium Undead (incarnated Wood-wight)
STR 
17 (+3)
DEX 
15 (+2)
CON 
16 (+3)
INT 
10 (+0)
WIS 
12 (+1)
CHA 
15 (+2)
Armour Class 15 (Scale hauberk)
Hit Points 105 (14d8+42)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Intimidation +5, Perception +4, Traditions +3
Senses passive Perception 14
Languages Westron
Challenge 6 (2,300 XP)
Fear of Fire. If a torch or other flame comes within 10 
feet of him, Raegenhere suffers Disadvantage on his 
attack rolls.
Savage Assault. When Raegenhere rolls a natural 18 or 
19, he may, as a bonus action, make a single additional 
melee attack against the same opponent.
Thing of Terror (1/day). Raegenhere is an evil spirit 
wearing a living man like a suit of armour. He briefly 
shows his true form and each hero must make a DC 15 
Wisdom saving throw or be Frightened of him until the 
end of his next turn.
Actions
Multiattack. Raegenhere can make two attacks; one with 
his axe and one with his claws.
Great Axe. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 9 (1d12+3) slashing damage.
Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 6 (1d6+3) slashing damage.
Reaction
 Fell Spirit (Recharge 5-6). When Raegenhere would be 
reduced to 0 hit points, he may use his reaction to add 10 
(3d6) temporary hit points.
Aftermath
If the companions slay Raegenhere, then the unnatural 
storm breaks and the blizzard subsides. If they managed to 
defeat the Wight without killing the Host, the grateful lord 
of the hall rewards them with the treasure from the restless 
king’s barrow (worth 50g in total). 
However, if the companions were forced to slay the Host 
along with the Wight, then they may be accused of murder, 
especially if they killed Ceawin.
Year’s End
Nothing of note.
- Year 2969 -
For heroes of level 12 or 13
Events
In this year, Spiders and Great Bats from the Mountains of 
Mirkwood attack the Woodland Realm. A power (the Ghost 
of the Forest) moves with them, unseen but not undetected 
by the Elves. If Thranduil is sick, then the enchantment of 
the Elf-path is temporarily broken, and evil things flood 
into the bower. Many Elves argue that they need the light of 
the Lamp to defend the Woodland Realm.
The plague spawned in the depths of Dol Guldur grows, 
and victims are reported as far north as the Carrock. So 
far, the plague takes only the sick, the weak, and the very 
old, but the Wise and the Elves fear a recurrence of the great 
plague that hit the region in the year 1640.
Fearing the plague, the Master of Lake-town orders 
that every foreigner and incoming ship be quarantined. 
Warehouses and cottages are built on the other side of the 
bridge that connects the city to the mainland, to house all 
foreign goods, travellers and merchants for the period of 
the quarantine. The townsfolk adopt the habit of burning 
incense and other spices to ward off the evil breath of the 
plague, raising alarmingly the danger of accidental fires.
7
11

--- PAGE 97 ---
97
Sanjar, the prince of Rhûn who the companions may have 
helped in 2959 (see The Horselord’s Daughter ) is the target 
of an assassination attempt. Strange assassins from the 
East, dusky-skinned Easterlings wielding poisoned blades, 
attempt to murder Sanjar. Unless the companions are able 
to stop the assassins, the young man perishes far from 
home beneath the trees. 
A son is born to Beorn. He calls him Grimbeorn.
Adventuring Phase: 
Wheels within Wheels
While travelling in Western Mirkwood, or along the Old 
Forest Road, the companions come upon the aftermath of 
a battle. A dozen warriors lie among the trees, the victims of 
an ambush by Orcs and Wargs. They slew more than fifty 
Orcs before they perished. From the black liveries worn by 
five archers among the dead, they came from Dale.
Searching around reveals prints leading deeper into the 
woods. When the companions follow these prints, they 
find two of the Bardings trapped in a Spider-web, with a 
big nasty Great Spider (page 106 of the Loremaster’s Guide) 
about to feast on them. Once they save them, the younger of 
the two thanks them and introduces himself as no less than 
Bain son of Bard, Prince of Dale. The other is old Ottarr, his 
personal counsellor and bodyguard.
The Prince’s Tale
The prince is a handsome man of twenty years, with the 
dark hair and build of his father, and the deep dark eyes 
of his mother. He relates how he came to be trapped in 
Mirkwood, so far from home.
Some years ago, a group of nobles in Dale started to 
clamour for conquest and a show of strength from his 
father, King Bard. They accused him of having abandoned 
his loftier aims following the untimely death of his wife. Last 
year, these nobles found their advocate in Girion, a young 
man of seventeen claiming to be a direct descendant of the 
last king of Dale before the Dragon came. This young Girion 
bore a marked resemblance to his ancestors indeed, and 
some of the nobles whispered that his claim on the throne 
was superior to that of King Bard himself.
Following advice from his council, Bard cautiously 
welcomed Girion at court. The boy claimed openly that his 
mother lived as an outlaw in the Western Eaves of Mirkwood 
and that her dying wish was that he seek his fortune in Dale. 
The townsfolk were overjoyed to have another of the line of 
Girion in their city, especially as ’young Girion’ promised to 
be a skilled warrior and a brave leader of men.
Last year, at Yuletide, something strange happened: the boy 
was in the main square of Dale in front of the Royal Palace, 
when a raven flew down, circled around him three times, 
and then placed a branch torn from a beech tree upon his 
The Years of the Plague: 2967-2974

--- PAGE 98 ---
Mirkwood Campaign
98
sword-arm. Many read an omen in that, indicating that 
young Girion would lead an army of Dale against the cruel 
Elves – for, Prince Bain explains, many of the young folk in 
Dale know nothing of the Woodland Realm, save only wild 
tales and the recent troubles along the border.
But King Bard was suspicious of this strange raven who 
bore a branch, and he set spies to watch Girion. One of his 
counsellors witnessed the young boy talking to that same 
raven more than once – the bird seemed to be conveying 
messages between him and someone in Mirkwood.
Bard resolved to send Bain and a group of chosen men 
to investigate the origins of Girion in the Western Eaves 
of Mirkwood. They travelled to Lake-town and found it 
quarantined, so they took a boat down the River Running 
to the end of the Long Marshes and tried to follow the Old 
Forest Road to the land of the Woodmen. On the way, they 
met a pair of Woodmen who offered their services as guides 
– but they led the Bardings into a trap.
Blood Ties
Girion is the son of Valdis, or of her sister Valya, if 
Valdis was killed in the adventure The Helm of Peace. 
This makes him a direct descendant of Girion, Lord of 
Dale, and a possible contender for the throne currently 
occupied by King Bard, and destined for his son Bain.
The Outlaws
As Bain finishes his tale, the companions hear the noise 
of several people approaching. They seem to be following 
Bain’s trail, just like the Company did. Those with 
excellent hearing detect human voices muttering that 
“he went this way” and “how did the bastard survive?” If 
the companions react immediately, they may be able to 
ambush the eight Outlaws (page 75 of the Loremaster’s 
Guide); otherwise, the outlaws arrive in the glen and 
immediately draw swords.
Two of the outlaws are the ’guides’ that tricked Bain into an 
ambush. If the companions played through Honour Among 
Thieves, they recognise some of the outlaws as men who 
were in the outlaw band seven years ago.
The outlaws try to awkwardly bluff the Company (“Prince 
Bain! Thank fortune we found you alive! We assumed the 
Orcs had… oh, sod it!”) before attacking (“Kill them all, 
lads!”). Prince Bain is weakened and tired, and should not 
be endangered in the fight (he is the future king of Dale!), 
but Ottarr may help as his sword is sharp and his hand 
is fell (Ottarr is a Warrior, see page 72 of the Loremaster’s 
Guide).
Once the battle is won, the companions may interrogate 
the surviving outlaws. If the companions try to kill them 
all, then Bain asks — or commands any Barding hero — to 
spare one.
• 
The outlaws are part of a band led by Elfsigil (see 
Honour Among Thieves). If the companions ensured 
peace between the outlaws and the folk of Woodland 
Hall, then the outlaw band is a small one that splintered 
off from the main group. If the Company failed to 
accomplish Geirbald’s last wish, then the cruel Elfsigil 
became the leader of the outlaws.
• 
Their leader Elfsigil ordered them to find Prince Bain 
and bring him to their camp north of the Old Forest 
Road. He knew Prince Bain was coming because of 
Elfsigil’s magic. Elfsigil can “talk to the birds” and is 
visited by “black wizards”. From the description, the 
Company can at least tell that the bird is Eágbitar, the 
raven associated with Valdis.
• 
The Orcs seemed to be lying in wait. The outlaws fled 
as soon as the first Orcs attacked. They were not the 
usual Orcs of Mirkwood; they were “big, dark bastards” 
in heavy armour and wielding ugly curved blades.
• 
If asked about Valdis, the outlaw shrugs. They remember 
Valdis well. Elfsigil did everything she told him to do, 
and everyone knew that she was really running the 
outlaws. She vanished about a year ago, taking with 
her half their treasure and some of their best fighters. 
Elfsigil did not seem to care too much, and most of the 
outlaws assumed that he got tired of the old harridan 
and moved on to a younger wench.
Prince Bain asks the companions to help him find and 
possibly capture Elfsigil. He will reward them well once he 
returns to Dale.

--- PAGE 99 ---
99
The Lair of the Outlaws
If the companions cleared the Old Forest Road over the 
course of the campaign, then the Outlaws’ lair is a poorly-
defended camp on the edge of Western Mirkwood. However, 
if they have not cleared the road, then the Outlaws have 
occupied and fortified the Beacon Tower in the Haunted 
Hills (Rhovanion Region Guide, page 98), making attacking 
them a much more difficult prospect. The description below 
assumes the outlaws have residence in the Beacon Tower, 
but if they have just a small camp, then the companions 
can easily sneak in.
There are twice as many Outlaws as companions if the 
Company completed Geirbald’s last request in 2962, or 
four times as many if Elfsigil rules the entire band. How 
will the Company deal with the outlaws? Here are some 
suggestions:
• 
Sneaking In: The Company can try sneaking past 
the outlaws with DC 15 Dexterity (Stealth) checks. 
Elfsigil’s quarters are high atop the Beacon Tower, 
which can be reached only by a narrow spiral staircase 
that is easy to defend.
• 
The Secret Passage: If the companions have a Dwarf 
in their number, they can find the entrance to the 
Spider-haunted tin mines and stone quarries nearby, 
and from there find a concealed entrance into the 
cellars of the tower.
• 
Besieging the Tower: The Beacon Tower is far from the 
domains of Men, but within the reach of the Beornings 
or the Woodmen of Woodland Hall. If the Company 
call in allies, they can besiege the tower and take it by 
force of arms.
• 
Calling Elfsigil Out: Elfsigil rules the outlaws by 
force of personality. Should a champion challenge 
him in front of the outlaws (with a successful DC 15 
Charisma (Intimidation) check), Elfsigil will have to 
come and speak with them or else risk looking weak.
The Messenger
Elfsigil is not alone in the camp – the Messenger of Mordor 
is there when the Company arrives. The Nazgûl leaves as 
soon as the Company’s presence is detected. The characters 
may only catch a glimpse of a hooded horsemen on a black 
steed, or be scattered by a wave of unreasoning fear when 
the Ringwraith rides out, but there can be little doubt that 
Elfsigil is in league with Dol Guldur.
Elfsigil’s Story
The outlaw chieftain scornfully dismisses the Company 
when he meets them. Valdis, he claims, is gone and good 
riddance to her. He does not know where she is, nor does 
he care. A DC 15 Wisdom (Insight) check confirms that he 
is lying – he is still serving Valdis, and still in love with the 
older woman. If challenged, he fights to the death (Elfisigil 
is an Outlaw Chief and will call several Outlaws to aid him 
if possible). 
Searching Elfsigil’s chamber (a DC 15 Intelligence 
(Investigation) check) reveals several letters, carried 
south by Eágbitar. They reveal that Valdis went north to 
the Mountains of Mirkwood to seek some ’treasure’ that 
would be of great benefit to her son’s ambitions. She 
communicates with her son and Elfsigil using her raven, 
Eágbitar. Valdis is somewhere in the Mountains. She 
commanded Elfsigil to gather more outlaws and move to the 
Long Marshes, where she will give him further commands.
News from Dale
While the Company and Bain are in Mirkwood, word 
comes from Dale (by way of the raven of a companion, for 
example): the plague has come to the north. While there 
have been only a few victims so far, it is widely reported 
that King Bard has fallen terribly ill. The King is alive, but 
he is too weak to leave his sickbed.
Furthermore, everyone believes that Prince Bain perished 
in the forest along with his guards (one of Valdis’ agents 
brought news of the Orc attack back soon after it happened). 
With the King sick and his heir dead or missing, the hearts 
of the people of Dale turn to another hero of the line of 
kings of old – young Girion is not yet acclaimed as heir-
designate, but many in Dale look to him to lead them in 
these dark times.
Prince Bain receives the news with grief and would return to 
Dale immediately, but wise Ottarr counsels him not to act 
rashly: with his father sick, only Prince Bain prevents the 
nobles who oppose King Bard from putting young Girion on 
the throne - a nuisance that can be easily remedied by men 
without scruples. Ottarr fears for the life of his prince, and 
12
9
The Years of the Plague: 2967-2974

--- PAGE 100 ---
Mirkwood Campaign
100
counsels him to look for allies here in Mirkwood to support 
him when he returns.
The Dark Schemes of Valdis
Part of Valdis’ scheme is obvious. She gained allies in Dale 
in a group of wealthy nobles who want more power, and 
they support her son Girion as he has a good claim to the 
throne. She also intends to move the outlaws to the eastern 
side of Mirkwood so they can ’threaten’ the traders and 
merchants, and then her son can ’defeat’ them, winning 
glory without peril.
But there is an even darker side to Valdis’ plans. For Girion 
to become king without civil war, she needs to kill King Bard. 
The Messenger of Mordor sent her to find a dark treasure 
in the Mountains of Mirkwood. There, amid the ruins and 
the twisted trees, she found what she sought — the Hame of 
the Great Vampire. 
Following the advice of the Ringwraith, Valdis wore the 
enchanted skin and discovered she could turn into a 
vampire-bat. The old schemer then used the Hame to fly 
into the heart of Dale and start sucking blood from King 
Bard in his sleep. His plague is nothing of the sort; it is 
Valdis who is draining his body and spirit night after night.
The Company may thwart Valdis’ schemes in the adventure 
The Hame of the Vampire (page 107).
Year’s End
The Company may help Prince Bain find a provisional 
home in the Vales of Anduin or in the Western Eaves of 
Mirkwood. Ottarr counsels Prince Bain to adopt a different 
name and identity for the time being, as the dispute between 
Bain and Girion promises to be difficult to solve.
- Year 2970 -
For heroes of level 12 or 13
Events
If King Thranduil fell victim of the poison of the traitor 
Halbrech the Wineseller (see page 87) he finally wakes up 
in the spring of this year. The Elvenking appears as if he 
is fully recovered in mind and body, but the dark dreams 
he experienced while locked in his unnatural sleep have 
tainted his spirit; Thranduil becomes sympathetic with 
the views of the Wayward Elves, and his first command 
is to expel all foreigners residing in the Woodland Realm 
(Thranduil’s Halls cannot be considered a Sanctuary by the 
companions any more).
The children stolen by the Wayward Elves (see Year 2958, 
page 53) return, greatly changed by the experience (and 
twelve years older). The children appear wise and skilled 
beyond their years, and there is something bright and 
strange in their eyes. These ‘changelings’, as they come to be 
known, return to their old homes, but are now committed 
allies of the Elves. Some do not welcome their return, and 
12

--- PAGE 101 ---
101
fear the children as they fear the wilder folk of the woods 
(see also New Background: Changeling, below).
The horrors of the plague are seen elsewhere in Mirkwood. 
Many flee human contact, risking the perils of the wood 
rather than fall victim to the disease. Strangely, the plague 
spares Woodmen-town. Rumours quickly spread that the 
light of the Lamp of Balthi protects against the plague. 
Many travel from Woodman Hall, Rhosgobel and other 
places in Mirkwood to find sanctuary close to the healing 
light of the Lamp.
Woodmen fleeing their homes make themselves vulnerable 
to the Werewolf of Mirkwood. This horror stalks the 
Western Eaves this year, and more victims than ever fall 
prey to its teeth and claws.
Prince Bain of Dale has not returned from his journey into 
Mirkwood and the realm is ruled by a council of regents, 
as King Bard is sick. Rumours say that Bain was slain by 
outlaws in Mirkwood, while others claim that the prince 
escaped and is now living in the woods.
The plague strikes the very heart of the Beornings when 
Beorn’s infant son shows signs of illness. Beorn sends the 
child to Radagast for healing.
New Background: Changeling
Weariness fell from him soon in that house, and he had many 
a merry jest and dance, early and late, with the elves...
You wandered into the enchanted land of the Elves as a 
young child, and grew up under their care and tutelage. 
They delighted in your mortal innocence and wonder, and 
taught you the ways of the Elves. Now, you have returned 
to the mortal realm, but you remember with fondness the 
teachings of your foster-parents. You are a child of the 
twilight, halfway between the starry night of the Elves and 
the harsh day of the Edain.
Skill Proficiency: Stealth or Lore
Feature: Child of the Woodland Realm
Your were raised by the First-born and will likely never be 
close to your own kin. If you select a Cultural Heirloom 
as an Open Virtue, you may only select from the Elves of 
Mirkwood list on page 159 of the Adventures in Middle-
earth Player’s Guide. You cannot use the Barding heirlooms. 
When selecting Cultural Virtues you use the Barding list on 
page 101 of the Player’s Guide.
Suggested Characteristics
Born of Barding-stock, but raised by Elves on the bounties 
of the forest, Changelings tend to be lithe-limbed, but with 
sometimes hidden reserves of strength and endurance. 
Some took wise words from their Elven foster-parents to 
heart, others mimic the gracefulness of the First-born 
without thought. Changelings are often adrift in the wider 
world, but also adapt quickly to new situations and are 
often the first to gain insights into strange matters.
D8
Distinctive Quality
1
Cautious. Living with Elves has taught you 
that all is not as it seems, sometimes.
2
Cunning. The First-born have quick tongues 
and you learned to keep up with their japes.
3
Fair-spoken. It is said that there is no one 
more versed in diplomacy than an Elf-lord 
and you attended them closely.
4
Lordly. Growing up in the court of the 
Elvenking has given you perspective on the 
lives of Men and a demeanour to fit.
5
Merciful. The Elves speak often of 
understanding others and not rushing to 
judgement.
6
Patient. The last decade or more of your life 
has taught new ways at looking at time and 
the turning of days and years.
7
Proud. You have been gifted an education 
few mortals have ever received; you have 
much to teach others.
8
Wary. The wider world is stranger than 
the Woodland Realm, the only home you 
remember.
The Years of the Plague: 2967-2974

--- PAGE 102 ---
Mirkwood Campaign
102
D6
Speciality
1
Beast-lore. You remember endless summer 
days riding along with the Elves on the Great 
Hunt.
2
Burglary. Many of the First-born amuse 
themselves with harmless pranks, and you 
quickly learned how to help pull of some of 
their most daring escapades.
3
Elven-lore. The many songs and stories that 
you heard in your youth has made wise in the 
tales of ancient days that no other mortals 
remember.
4
Herb-lore. The Elves taught you the ways of 
the forest, and how to find unexpected aid 
among the plants that call it home.
5
Minstrelsy. A song is ever on the lips of 
the First-born, and you often joined in their 
merriment at the world.
6
Woodwright. The forest is a friend, but it 
is also a servant; you’ve spent long hours 
fashioning useful things from the gifts of the 
trees.
D6
Hope and Despair
1
Hope: I have seen great beauty in the 
Woodland Realm.
Despair: All fine things are products of the past, 
and our efforts today are doomed to failure.
2
Hope: My friends among the Elves would 
never forsake me.
Despair: I am as a pet to them, treasured but 
soon to die and be replaced.
3
Hope: The world has much to offer a child of 
two worlds.
Despair: I am abandoned by both birth and 
foster parents, and alone.
4
Hope: The Elves laugh at the Shadow and I 
laugh with them.
Despair: Mockery and merriment are useless 
in the face of the Enemy.
5
Hope: I will share what I have learnt with 
others.
Despair: There is no hope in the world of 
Men; they are deaf fools.
6
Hope: The Elves told me a secret and I will 
treasure my knowledge.
Despair: The world is unkind, cold and cruel; I 
wish I was back among the Elves!
The Forest Dragon
Huge Dragon (Full-grown Long-worm)
STR 
24 (+7)
DEX 
22 (+6)
CON 
20 (+5)
INT 
14 (+2)
WIS 
16 (+3)
CHA 
16 (+3)
Armour Class 19 (Natural Armour)
Hit Points 207 (18d12+90)
Speed 30 ft
Damage Resistances non-magical bludgeoning and 
slashing
Saving Throws Strength +11, Dexterity +10, 
Constitution +9
Skills Athletics +11, Stealth +10, Survival +10
Senses passive Perception 13
Languages Unknown (no one in this Age of the world 
has heard her speak)
Challenge 12 (8,400 XP)
Deadly Tail-grip. The Forest Dragon has one Legendary 
action each turn, which she can use to cause 13 (1d12+7) 
bludgeoning damage to a Grappled foe.
Mirkwood Dweller (Recharge 5-6). If the Forest Dragon 
is within 5 feet of a Mirkwood scenery feature, she may 
use her bonus action to gain half-cover from it, even if the 
feature would not normally provide it.
Thing of Terror (1/day). The Forest Dragon can use her 
bonus action to rear up and display her full strength. Each 
hero within 60 feet must make a DC 19 Wisdom saving 
throw or be Frightened of her until the end of her next 
turn.
Tough Hide. The Forest Dragon is resistant to non-
magical bludgeoning and slashing damage.
Weak Spot. If the Forest Dragon uses a special ability that 
uses an action (Crushing Tail-grip or Multiattack), 
any heroes that are within range may use their reaction 
to make a single attack. For this attack only, she is 
considered vulnerable to all piercing, slashing and 
bludgeoning damage.
Actions
Multiattack. The Forest Dragon makes two Bite attacks.
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 20 (3d8+7) piercing damage.
Crushing Tail-grip. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, 
reach 5 ft, one target. Hit: 13 (1d12+7) bludgeoning 
damage. The target becomes Grappled (escape DC 21). 
The dragon can spend its action to cause 13 (1d12+7) 
bludgeoning damage to the Grappled foe.

--- PAGE 103 ---
103
Adventuring Phase: 
Slaying the Forest Dragon
The Forest Dragon (Rhovanion Region Guide, page 79) 
awoke from her slumber ten years ago. The gloomy barrens 
of Northern Mirkwood offer little in the way of sustenance, 
so she turns her heavy-lidded gaze west to the fertile vales 
of Anduin and the lands of the Beornings. 
In the middle of spring she reaches the eaves of Mirkwood, 
and falls upon the defenders of the Forest Gate with savage 
fury. Three gulps of her monstrous jaws, and the Elves 
who watch the gate are gone. From there, she slithers west 
again, and devours a herd of cattle before crawling back 
into the woods.
Both Beorn and the Elvenking call for heroes to seek out 
and slay the Dragon.
Hunting the Forest Dragon
The Forest Dragon is canny and wood-wise. For a creature 
so big, she is surprisingly stealthy, and her green-black 
hide hides her in the darkness of the forest. It is relatively 
simple to find her trail, but as soon as the Dragon realises 
she is being followed, she likes to turn around and lay a 
trap for her pursuers. She might slither up into the treetops 
and drop down on them from above, sink her long body 
into a river and watch them like a crocodile or just lurk in 
the shadows and ambush them.
The best way to catch her is to lure her out with food, for 
the Forest Dragon is half-starved. She would devour all 
the lands of the Beornings if she dared – but she is not 
ready yet to challenge Beorn. If the companions lay a trap 
with a few fat cows, then sooner or later the Dragon will 
come to them.
Fighting the Forest Dragon
The Forest Dragon is a Long-worm, a wingless dragon 
of the line of Scatha, lesser in stature than Smaug the 
Golden, but still a terrible threat to the Free Peoples. In 
combat, the Forest Dragon targets her strongest foes with 
her Deadly Tail-grip, then crushes them to death whilst 
she bites at any would-be rescuers. She avoids fighting 
outside of the forest, to exploit her Mirkwood Dweller 
ability to her best advantage.
The Hoard
The death of a Dragon never fails to attracts thieves and 
treasure-hunters, as the fell beast must have had a hoard 
hidden somewhere! The curse of Dragon-gold is strong 
indeed in such dark times…
If the exiled Dwarves of Northern Mirkwood are still around 
(in other words, if the Greydelve was never reclaimed), then 
they covet the hoard and try to steal it.
No one seems to have a clue to where the treasure might lie 
undisturbed. The Viglundings used to live around the area; 
9
The Years of the Plague: 2967-2974

--- PAGE 104 ---
Mirkwood Campaign
104
survivors of that folk may still be living in the forest and know 
where the Forest Dragon made her lair. If the companions 
are able to locate where the Forest Dragon slept (Rhovanion 
Region Guide, page 72), then they may find her treasure 
hoard – it is not as fabulous as the wonderful treasure of 
Smaug, but it is worth a king’s ransom in these fallen days. 
The hoard is worth at least 500g, and has at least a few 
notable objects:
• 
The Torc of Fram: A treasure of the ancestors of Rohan, 
this torc of gold with garnets was looted from the ruins 
of a town in the Vales of Gundabad where that folk 
dwelt for a time. The torc gives anyone who wears it the 
Lordly Distinctive Quality.
• 
The Cup of Kinship: Another treasure from the Vales of 
Anduin, it is said that those who drink from this golden 
cup are forever bound together in true friendship. If 
everyone in the Company drinks from the cup, then 
the first time in an Adventuring phase that any hero 
gains Inspiration, everyone in the Company gains 
Inspiration. This bond can be renewed once every 
year.
Year’s End
The passing of a Dragon brings always good fortune – the 
DC for all Holding Upkeep checks this year is reduced by 2.
- Year 2971 -
For heroes of level 12 or 13
Events
The plague continues to spread throughout Mirkwood. 
Villagers abandon Black Tarn Hall, which suffered greatly 
from the wasting sickness, and make for the healing light of 
the Lamp of Balthi. Others leave Mirkwood altogether, and 
seek shelter at Mountain Hall or with the Beornings. More 
evil creatures come down from the Mountains of Mirkwood 
to trouble the Elves. Spiders, Vampires, Wargs and Orcs 
trespass within thirty miles of the Halls of Thranduil.
To defend his Realm, the Elvenking causes the Enchanted 
Stream to follow a new course. The stream now doesn’t 
cross the Elf-path any more, but flows north-west to the 
south following the track, until it plunges over a new 
waterfall near the gates of Thranduil’s Halls. 
Prince Bain sends messengers to Dale from his exile to 
reveal that he is alive and well, and meaning to return soon. 
Some time later he takes the road, but must abandon his 
plans when assassins try to kill him. He is saved by faithful 
Ottarr, who is grievously wounded but survives.
In the meantime in Dale, young Girion accuses Prince Bain 
of having betrayed and deserted his own folk. More and 
more nobles flock to support his cause. King Bard remains 
bedridden and afflicted with the ‘plague’.
Adventuring Phase: 
The Dying of the Light
Radagast summons the Company to Rhosgobel. Refugees 
from all over the Western Eaves of Mirkwood crowd into 
the small sheltered enclave within the hedge, and the 
Wizard does his best to care for them. His face is careworn, 
his eyes haunted by the sight of so much suffering. He 
shows the Company to another, equally horrific sight. In 
a mass grave outside Rhosgobel are many recent victims of 
the Werewolf of Mirkwood.
These were folk who fled Black Tarn Hall and came to 
Rhosgobel seeking healing, but the Werewolf caught them 
before they could find sanctuary. The beast’s attacks must 
be stopped.
The Nature of the Beast
Ever since the year 2965 (see The Theft of the Lamp on page 
78) Radagast has wondered about the connection between 
the Werewolf of Mirkwood and the Lamp of Balthi. The 
Lamp is the one power in Mirkwood that the Werewolf 
cannot endure, but it is not strong enough to destroy it. 
By now, Radagast (and possibly the companions) have 
realised that the Werewolf of Mirkwood cannot be defeated 
normally, as the evil spirit that inhabits its physical body 
can abandon it to escape destruction, only to later possess 
another Warg or wolf and turn it into another monstrous 
12

--- PAGE 105 ---
105
Werewolf. These days, the Werewolf rules a huge pack of 
Wargs and is never seen alone.
Radagast believes that the only way to permanently defeat 
the Werewolf is to prevent the spirit from fleeing the 
uncovered light of the Lamp (the companions may have 
come to the same conclusions by themselves). 
To do this, the Company must:
• 
Fight the Werewolf of Mirkwood and slay it, making 
sure that there are no wolves or Wargs nearby for the 
spirit to flee into;
• 
Shine the Lamp of Balthi onto the disembodied spirit, 
and hold it there until it is burnt away to nothing but a 
fleeting shade of its former strength.
To put this plan into action the heroes must retrieve the 
Lamp, lure the Werewolf, deal with its pack of Wargs and 
slay the beast for the last time.
Travel to Woodmen-town 
In better days, the Company could cross to the Dusky River 
and take a boat, or make their way along the relatively safe 
woods of the Western Eaves. Now, any travel risks attack 
from the Werewolf or Spiders. Due to the proximity of the 
Werewolf and other evil creatures the Peril Rating is 5 and 
the trip generates 1d2+2 Journey Events.
Get the Lamp
The Lamp of Balthi is a cherished relic of the folk of 
Woodmen-town, and they believe it is their only shelter 
from the threat of the plague. Persuading them to give it 
up, even only for a short time and even with Radagast’s 
blessing, will not be easy. The Company may have to swear 
that they will protect the Lamp, or even steal the Lamp 
out of the hall in order to use it against the Werewolf. 
This will either require an Audience with the Company at 
Disadvantage, or clever use of Stealth, Sleight of Hand, 
Deception or other skills.
Lure the Werewolf
The Werewolf hates the Lamp of Balthi more than anything 
else in Arda – but it is no fool, and will not charge into 
Woodmen-town blindly. The Company need to find a way 
to lure the Werewolf into a trap. Some possibilities: 
• 
Bring the Lamp to the Werewolf’s lair in the Mountains 
of Mirkwood.
• 
Take the Lamp out of Woodmen-town and use it as bait.
• 
Go and track the Werewolf down in the deep forest.
Deal with the Pack
The Werewolf of Mirkwood runs at the head of a pack of 
more than a hundred wolves. The Company must find a 
way to drive these beasts away, lure them away from the 
Werewolf or else kill them all first before engaging the beast 
itself. Ideally, the Company can call for help a patron or 
ally.
• 
Beorn or Radagast can speak to the animals, and could 
whistle up a herd of deer to lure the wolves away;
• 
Saruman the White, should the Company call on him, 
is a Wizard of great power and authority. He alone 
has the strength to stop the Werewolf from fleeing into 
the body of another wolf. If the Company can slay the 
Werewolf once in his presence, he can hold the spirit 
while they bring the Lamp to bear;
• 
If a companion has been entrusted with a Hound of the 
West, then the faithful beast speaks up and volunteers 
to drive away the wolves. If entrusted with the task, the 
Hound succeeds admirably — all the Wargs and wolves 
chase the Hound howling into the depths of Mirkwood 
— but the marvellous dog never returns.
The Death of the Beast
To defeat the Werewolf of Mirkwood once and for all the 
Company must first slay its body — this requires reducing 
the wolf to 0 hit points (bearing in mind its ability to regain 
hit points once in a round if it would be reduced to 0) and 
it must fail its Death saving throws (if allowed). Then no 
other wolves must be around, and the Lamp of Balthi must 
be uncovered and its light made to shine on the Werewolf. 
If these conditions are acquired, then the spirit residing 
inside the dying wolf-body will attempt to leave it, but will 
be burned by the ancient radiance of the Lamp, never to be 
seen or heard of in this Age of the world again. 
The Lamp also provides some benefits in battle:
12
9
12
9
The Years of the Plague: 2967-2974

--- PAGE 106 ---
Mirkwood Campaign
106
• 
The uncovered Lamp allows all heroes to gain 
Inspiration. Furthermore, while the Lamp is lit, the 
companions have Advantage and their foes have 
Disadvantage on attack rolls. This effect ends if the 
Lamp is extinguished for any reason.
Unexpected Complications  
This is to be the final confrontation with the Werewolf of 
Mirkwood, and the Company’s last chance to slay the beast 
forever. The Loremaster must let the heroes drive the battle, 
adapting the scene to reflect their preparations and their 
planned trap. However, things should never go as expected, 
and the Loremaster may include one or more complications 
and twists to the battle…
• 
Treachery of the Woodmen: If Ceawin is still in the 
thrall of a Wight, or if Mogdred is still alive, then they 
may interfere with the final battle. Alternatively, well-
meaning but foolish Woodmen may try to take the 
Lamp back from the ’thieves’. Choose this complication 
for groups who have a long association with the 
Woodmen and their internal politics.
• 
The Nazgûl Strike: The Werewolf is a valuable 
weapon to the Enemy, and neither the Ghost of the 
Forest nor the Lieutenant of Dol Guldur will let it be 
destroyed so easily. This option works best for players 
who enjoy nigh-impossible odds!
• 
The Werewolf’s Hostage: Before the trap is sprung, 
the Werewolf captures someone dear to one of the 
companions. In a snarling, bestial tongue, it offers to 
exchange its hostage for the Lamp. Refuse, and the 
hostage dies. Choose this option for characters  who 
have made their home in Mirkwood.
• 
The Beast Within: Burned and scarred by the Light of 
the Lamp, and denied the body of a wolf to inhabit, the 
spirit leaps into the only shelter it can find – the body of 
a companion! The character must immediately make a 
Wisdom saving throw against Corruption, at a DC of 
12 + the character’s Shadow rating.
 
If the saving throw fails, then the body of the 
companion is seized by the Werewolf of Mirkwood and 
the only thing to free the world from this bane is to kill 
both hero and monster! If the saving throw succeeds, 
the character is able to imprison the Werewolf within 
his own flesh. The character is now a skinchanger and 
can turn into a wolf! (See The Curse of the Werewolf 
below. Moreover, this is an excellent lead-in to the 
adventure Beorn’s Quest - see page 115).
12
The Curse of the Werewolf
A companion inhabited by the Werewolf of Mirkwood immediately gains 
5 Shadow points, as his spirit is tainted by the unquenchable hunger of the 
evil thing. 
The curse allows the hero to turn into a wolf of prodigious size at will (use 
the stats on page 113 of the Loremaster’s Guide while the hero is in wolf-
form, but the hero retains his hit points and known languages). Each time 
the companion completes a Fellowship phase, he must make a DC 20 Wisdom 
saving throw against Corruption or gain 1 Shadow point.
The corrupting nature of the Werewolf’s spirit means that the hero’s attempts 
to Heal Corruption are always made with Disadvantage. Furthermore, if 
the hero suffers a Bout of Madness while in wolf-form then the Werewolf 
comes to fore again, killing indiscriminately until the mood passes or the 
Werewolf is made Unconscious.

--- PAGE 107 ---
107
• 
Pity Stays Your Hand: The dying beast pleads for the 
Company to shroud the Lamp. It is dying, but the Lamp 
will burn its spirit and make it suffer as it passes. If they 
shroud the Lamp, it can die easily. The companions 
may suspect that the Werewolf is lying, but this is 
exactly what it seems – an opportunity to show pity. 
The spirit was not always evil, but the Dark Powers 
corrupted it into something monstrous. However, 
vengeful companions may wish to see the beast pay for 
all its crimes.
Year’s End 
If the Company failed to destroy the Werewolf, then it 
continues to prey on the unfortunate Woodmen. Travel 
between the various settlements becomes virtually 
impossible. The Woodmen Houses must each stand alone 
against the darkness. If they succeed, the Woodmen are 
initially suspicious of tales that speak of the defeat of the 
Werewolf of Mirkwood – other hunters have claimed the 
beast was dead, only to be proved wrong. However, as the 
nights roll by and there is no sign of the wolf reborn, the folk 
of Woodmen-town realise that the beast is finally gone. The 
shadow of the plague still hangs over them, but that day the 
companions are hailed as heroes.
Companions who took part in the slaying of the Werewolf 
of Mirkwood and who do not belong to the Woodmen may 
choose to Receive Title (Hero of the Woodmen) undertaking 
this year (see page 86).
- Year 2972 -
For heroes of level 13 or 14
Events
The death of the Werewolf of Mirkwood is marked by feasts 
and celebration from Northern Mirkwood to the Black 
Tarn.
King Bard continues to grow weaker, and many in Dale 
openly discuss the succession of Girion to the throne. 
Adventuring Phase: 
The Hame of the Vampire
Several years ago, the outlaw Valdis went into the Mountains 
of Mirkwood in search of a relic that could further her 
son’s ambitions. Guided by the whispered malice of the 
Ringwraiths of Dol Guldur, she found an entrance into the 
labyrinth of tunnels and caves beneath the dark hills. And 
there, in some lightless chasm, she found what she sought. 
There are several ways for the companions to become 
involved in this quest:
• 
If they played the adventure Wheels Within Wheels 
(page 97), then they know from Elfsigil that his mistress 
is somewhere in the Mountains of Mirkwood. Finding 
someone in the wilderness is no easy matter, but after 
several weeks of cold trails and false starts, they spot 
Eágbitar and follow the bird into the caves.
• 
Alternatively, they might be contacted by Thranduil. 
The Elvenking believes that the recent spate of Vampire 
attacks in the Woodland Realm are planned and 
directed by a single dread will. He sends the Company 
into the mountains, telling them to retrace the path he 
himself walked many years ago.
• 
Finally, a companion in Dale might see the monster 
that is haunting King Bard, and track the Vampire to 
the Mountains of Mirkwood. 
12
The Years of the Plague: 2967-2974

--- PAGE 108 ---
Mirkwood Campaign
108
The Shadow of the Mountain
The journey into the Mountains of Mirkwood takes the 
Company through some of the most dangerous terrain in 
the whole forest. The land is cracked and tortured, resulting 
in many hidden chasms and ravines. The trees cluster dark 
and thick together, so a traveller might not see a cliff-edge 
or some other hazard until he falls over it. The Mountains 
of Mirkwood are a Blighted land, so the Loremaster 
should call for saving throws against Corruption as the 
companions make their way through the wilderness.
In time, the companions come to the Elven ruins of the 
Refuge. White marble pillars jut like dry bones out from 
the black earth, and collapsed buildings stare with hollow-
eyed windows at the intruders. The Refuge was despoiled 
long ago, and there may be Orcs lurking in wait here. 
This is where Thranduil’s path began when he quested to 
destroy the Great Vampire (Rhovanion Region Guide, page 
97).
The Path of Song
Any companion proficient with Performance or possessing 
Elven-lore knows the ‘Lay of Thranduil & the Vampire’, 
although mortals have long since forgotten the King’s name 
and now refer to it as ’The Ballad of the Green Prince and 
the Red Queen’. The middle section of the song describes 
how to find the entrance used by Thranduil.
All crowned with mist the twisted peak
Stood proud of its brethren, grey and bleak.
Forth the hunters, brave and bold
Nine there were, yet ‘twas foretold.
That one alone would climb back down
They did not shirk the oath they’d sworn.
But climbed the hills through fir and thorn
the sun their herald that first morn.
Three days they walked, and fought and bled
horrors uncounted behind them tread.
Until at last they found the Gate
Morgoth’s maw, that pit of hate.
Noisome vapours rose from the gulf
at last the prince said “hold, enough!
Our foe is near, we’ve found her lair.”
And from the deeps, the foetid air
Became a deathly pall, a hame of night
And darkness took him from our sight.
If the companions follow the words of the song, they 
know how to find the chasm. Travel three days east from 
the Refuge, look for a twisted peak with bare sides that is 
reached through a forest of fir and thorn, and then find a 
black chasm. The journey is unpleasant and perilous, but
at least it is swift.
If the Company does not follow the song, then they must use 
Investigation or Survival to find traces of the Vampire. 
These checks are at DC 20 and every other failure causes 
the heroes to gain a level of Exhaustion as they scramble 
up and down the steep sides of the mountains looking for 
signs of the Vampire’s passage.
Into the Chasm
The trail ends at the lip of a deep chasm, a gaping cleft in 
the flank of the mountain. There is no easy path down. The 
only way to enter the chasm is to climb down. The walls 
of the chasm are thronged with thousands of bats. If the 
companions climb down slowly and carefully, taking every 
necessary precaution, the task won’t require them to make 
any roll. The companions face three very different threats 
instead:
• 
Flocks of Vampire Bats: A huge swarm of Great 
Bats (see page 114 of the Loremaster’s Guide) flap out 
of the darkness and attack the companions. There 
are four bats per companion. Climbing companions 
have Disadvantage on their attacks and the bats have 
Advantage on attack rolls against climbers.
• 
Noisome Vapours: A cloud of sulphurous smoke 
rises from some hellish fire far below. This strange 
smoke makes the companions feel light-headed and 
uncertain, and causes them to make a DC 20 Wisdom 
saving throw. Those who fail gain 3 Shadow points. 
Any companion made Miserable by the smoke may fall 
under the influence of the Great Vampire (see page 110).
• 
Outlaws: Several Outlaws accompanied Valdis into 
the Mountains, but only five of them survive to this 
day. They attack the Company as they make the final 
stage of their descent into the chasm. The outlaws 
are deathly pale, rake-thin and obviously crazed (the 
troupe counts as a Vile Gang). They have seen horrors 
they dare not remember, and survived by eating bats, 
lizards and their former comrades. They serve Valdis 
9
9

--- PAGE 109 ---
109
out of terror, not loyalty; if the companions spare them, 
or convince them to surrender, then they will guide the 
Company through the caves to the vampire’s lair.
An Ancient Shadow Reborn
Valdis found what she sought: the remains of the Great 
Vampire (Rhovanion Region Guide, page 97). Through vile 
arts taught to her by the Messenger of Mordor and with 
the aid of the hungry shade of the Vampire itself, she was 
able to take the dreadful bat-fell of the creature and drape 
it around her own body as a cloak. But she didn’t obtain the 
result she was looking for: she became the Great Vampire 
itself, reborn with the lesser evil of her sinful soul merging 
with the dark spirit of the monster.
All the Vampires of Mirkwood bowed before their new 
queen, and at the urging of the Nazgûl she sent them north 
to attack the Elves. 
Valdis herself flapped north to Dale to pursue her dark 
agenda. In the dead of night she crept into the bedchambers 
of King Bard and started to feed on his blood. She has been 
haunting the King since that night, taking just enough to 
keep him weak and sick, but not enough to kill him; she 
knows she must wait for her son Girion to reinforce his 
claim to the throne.
For the last year or more, Valdis travelled back and forth 
between Dale and the Mountains of Mirkwood. Each time 
she visited Bard, she left him weaker and less able to rule. 
By her magic, she avoided his guards, and his physicians 
were puzzled by the king’s continuing weakness.
The Lair of the Vampire
Valdis makes her lair in the huge cavern once used by the 
Great Vampire. This cathedral of black stone has many 
bottomless pits and cracks in its floor, so only a flying 
creature can easily cross from one side to another. Those 
who cannot take to the air must follow more circuitous 
routes across the chamber. The ceiling is more than thirty 
feet high in places, and hundreds of bats nest there.
There is, of course, no light in the cave, and anyone who 
brings in so much as a candle is smothered by the bats. 
Valdis’s throne – she no longer sleeps – is in the centre of 
the cavern.
The Great Vampire
Valdis may appear in any of three forms.
First, there is her true shape: an old woman, once comely 
maybe, but now bent and haggard with long years in 
the wilderness, wearing only the vile skin of a long-dead 
Giant Bat draped around her filthy shoulders. Gobbets of 
dried blood stain her mouth and sagging breasts, and she 
fumbles blearily amid the bat droppings with sightless eyes. 
If the Company can sneak into the cavern without making a 
sound or using any light, this is the form they see.
9
The Years of the Plague: 2967-2974

--- PAGE 110 ---
Mirkwood Campaign
110
Second, she can shroud herself in a magical illusion. In 
this form, she becomes both beautiful and terrible, a dark 
queen of the night, young and seductive, to be desired 
and feared in equal measure. If Valdis knows that the 
companions are coming, she may take on this form and 
try to seduce one of them (especially if they are Miserable 
because of the vapours, and therefore vulnerable to her 
influence). She may also use this form to bargain with the 
Company.
Third, she can become a huge vampire bat, more vicious 
than any the companions have yet faced. This is the form 
she uses when flying to Dale.
An Audience with a Vampire
Instead of attacking as soon as the companions show 
themselves, Valdis prefers to speak with them. She is a 
reasonable monster — her plans are nearly complete, and 
she intends to leave this place for Dale within the year — so 
she won’t take any unnecessary risks. 
Valdis may try gambits like the following:
• 
Valdis offers to withdraw her Vampires from the 
Woodland Realm, if Thranduil recognises her as Queen 
of the Mountains of Mirkwood.
• 
She might promise to lift her curse from King Bard, if her 
son is named heir to the kingdom of Dale. She claims 
that young Girion knows nothing of her machinations 
on his behalf.
• 
She may point out that the companions are in her 
stronghold, far from the light, and that she commands 
Orcs and Vampires and all manner of frightful things. 
She will spare them… for a price.
Motivation: I deserve to be Queen! If not, at least my son 
may be King… The Hame is but a means to an end. (While 
Valdis believes this, she is truly wedded to the Shadow as 
much as any Ringwraith and will not surrender her power.)
Expectations: +2 If the companion praise her beauty or 
cunning; +1 if they speak well of Girion; -2 if they tell Valdis 
that Bain lives; -2 if they reject her advances or plans.
13
Valdis, The Great Vampire
Large Fiend
STR 
15 (+2)
DEX 
19 (+4)
CON 
16 (+3)
INT 
10 (+0)
WIS 
15 (+2)
CHA 
15 (+2)
Armour Class 17 (Natural Armour)
Hit Points 119 (14d10+42)
Speed 20 ft, fly 60 ft
Saving Throws Dexterity +7, Constitution +6, Wisdom +5
Skills Deception +5, Perception +5, Stealth +7
Senses blindsight 60 ft, passive Perception 15
Languages Westron, Orcish, Silvan
Challenge 8 (3,900 XP)
Echolocation. Valdis cannot use her blindsight while 
Deafened.
Enthrall. As a bonus action, Valdis (in her illusionary 
form) can force a creature within 60 ft to make a DC 15 
Wisdom saving throw or become Charmed by her. A 
Miserable Charmed creature gains the Thrall ability, 
see The Thrall Curse, opposite page. The Charmed effect 
lasts until Valdis leaves the area, attacks the Charmed 
creature, or the creature takes a short rest. 
Keen Hearing. Valdis has Advantage on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks that rely on hearing.
Fell Speed. Valdis may take a bonus action to Disengage 
from one opponent and engage another without
provoking an opportunity attack. The new opponent 
must be within her regular movement rate.
Hard Eyed. Valdis has killed before, and will do so 
again. She scores a critical hit on any 18, 19 or 20 on an 
attack roll.
Hate Sunlight. Valdis despises the cleansing light of the 
Sun. If she is exposed to direct bright sunlight, she takes 
3 (1d6) psychic damage each round.
Actions
Multiattack. Valdis makes three attacks: Biting once and 
making two Claw attacks.
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 5 (1d6+2) piercing damage and the target must 
make a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or gain 1 Shadow 
point as the vampire feeds on their blood.
Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 9 (2d4+4) slashing damage.
Bewilder. Valdis can briefly assume the appearance of 
a beautiful woman. In this form, she can only use her 
Enthrall ability.
Reactions
Snake-like Speed (Recharge 5-6). Valdis is adept at 
avoiding injury and can use her reaction to halve the 
attack damage on an attack that she is aware of.

--- PAGE 111 ---
111
Battling Valdis
In addition to Valdis herself, there are uncountable Great 
Bats, Goblin Archers and Orc Soldiers in the caverns. 
As soon as fighting starts, these minions flood into the 
chamber (at least one of each kind joins the battle each 
round until Valdis is defeated). The Company can use the 
terrain to their advantage by moving to one of the rocky 
’islands’ (see pages 95-96 of the Loremaster’s Guide for 
possible scenery features), but that also risks cutting off 
their line of retreat.
If Valdis is reduced to 59 or less hit points, she flaps 
towards the exit at the southern edge of the cavern. Should 
the companions pursue her through the maze of tunnels 
and passageways, they arrive at another cave-mouth high 
above Mirkwood just in time to see a huge bat-winged shape 
flapping away into the night. The companions should be 
content with surviving the encounter and returning home 
with precious information. Valdis flees north to Dale and 
her son. She may be encountered again in 2973, in the 
adventure The Reach of the Shadow.
The Thrall Curse
A Miserable companion Charmed by the Great 
Vampire gains the Thrall special ability, with the 
Great Vampire as the hero’s master. Whenever an 
attack roll is made against Valdis and you have 
movement remaining you must make a DC 10 Wisdom 
saving throw or use your reaction and become the 
target of the attack instead.
If Valdis is slain, or you take a short rest, you are no 
longer subject to this effect.
Year’s End
If the companions slay Valdis and retrieve the Hame of 
the Great Vampire, they might elect to take it to Thranduil. 
If they do so, he locks the foul thing in one of his deepest 
chambers. The Elvenking relaxes his restrictions slightly 
and holdings in the Woodland Realm and around Lake-
town, Dale and Erebor see their DC for Holding Upkeep 
checks reduced by 2 for this year.
- Year 2973 -
For heroes of level 13 or 14
Events
The worst of the plague is past. While some fall ill this 
winter, there are few new outbreaks. Most of those who are 
still alive are immune to the disease.
 
The precipitious fall in the numbers of Woodmen means 
that they are now too few to sustain all their settlements. 
Some leave their homes and travel to larger communities 
like Woodmen-town; others vanish into the forest.
Bofri and the other Dwarves who came south to open the 
Old Forest Road are found dead in one of their waystations. 
From the signs, it seems that they were attacked by bandits 
or warriors from Dol Guldur.
The quarrels between Prince Bain and young Girion 
continue. While it has not yet come to open war, the two 
continue to gather allies.
Adventuring Phase: 
The Reach of the Shadow
In the Northern Dalelands just beyond the eastern edge 
of Mirkwood, north of the River Running, lies a tall green 
mound. A lord of Dale named Orlmond built his castle 
there and today it is a mighty fortress by the standards of 
the North, with Dwarf-wrought gates and high towers, for 
Orlmond is a wealthy man.
Orlmond’s role in this adventure depends on the current 
state of Dale, and the nature of the Company:
• 
If the Company aided Prince Bain and helped him to 
force young Girion out of Dale, then Orlmond is an 
ally of Girion, one of the greedy lords whose ambition 
led them to oppose King Bard and support Girion in 
the first place. Recently, Orlmond sent a message to 
Prince Bain, inviting him to feast in his castle and to 
hunt in Mirkwood, so they could discuss their recent 
differences. This offer was a trap – Girion and his men 
13
The Years of the Plague: 2967-2974

--- PAGE 112 ---
Mirkwood Campaign
112
were waiting for Bain, and now he is a prisoner in the 
castle. 
• 
Conversely, if Prince Bain is still in exile somewhere 
in Wilderland, then Orlmond is one of his few allies. 
Orlmond has long been a friend of the Elves. Prince 
Bain went to visit Orlmond, but while he was at the 
castle, it was attacked by Girion’s men. The castle was 
taken by treachery, and now Bain is a prisoner in the 
castle, while Orlmond is a hostage in his own home 
–  Girion hopes that Orlmond will switch sides.
So, either way, Prince Bain is a prisoner in the castle of 
Orlmond, and must be rescued. Prince Bain’s squire, 
faithful Ottarr, escaped the castle and went in search of 
help.
The Plight of the Prince
Ottarr seeks out the companions and tells them that Prince 
Bain is imprisoned in Orlmond Castle. He begs for their 
help in rescuing his master from young Girion. 
Companions wise in the matters of politics and diplomacy 
understand the dilemma: if Girion’s imprisonment of the 
prince becomes public knowledge — say, if Ottarr brought 
word to Dale itself — then it would certainly lead to open 
conflict between Bain’s supporters and Girion’s men. If 
the Company can rescue Bain quietly, then it will avoid 
a civil war.
Castle Orlmond
Castle Orlmond is a new fortification, consisting of a tall 
central keep surrounded by a stone wall. Another wooden 
wall encompasses a larger bailey-yard in front of the 
keep. The steep-sided mound is the castle’s best defence, 
especially as the moat at the base of the mound is filled 
with black, leech-ridden mud and sharp stones.
The castle is guarded by some thirty Warriors, all loyal 
to Girion. Many of the cottagers and foresters in the land 
nearby support him, so Girion can call hundreds more men 
to his banner if he is attacked openly. If that wasn’t enough, 
the pretender has also brought a number of mercenaries 
from the East with him (use the Easterling Warriors on page 
72 of Wilderland Adventures). Young Bain and Orlmond 
are of course there too. Finally, if the Company failed to 
slay Girion’s mother Valdis in the adventure The Hame of 
the Vampire (page 107), then she too is in the castle. Prince 
Bain and his surviving companions are imprisoned in the 
dungeons of the keep.
Honeyed Words
Should the companions meet young Girion, the 
pretender tries to woo them to his cause. Girion 
certainly looks the part – the handsome hero might 
be a marble statue brought to life or a champion who 
leapt from the pages of a saga of old. He speaks of the 
potential greatness of Dale, how all the North can be 
brought together in a single kingdom like in the days 
of old, when all Rhovanion was one. He claims that he 
does not wish to steal King Bard’s throne, but Bard’s 
claim to kingship rests on a single bow-shot, nothing 
more. There is still time to restore the ancient line, the 
true line of Girion. Those who support him, he hints, 
will be well rewarded with land and gold and titles 
when he is king.
Sneaking into the Castle
There are three possible routes for entering the castle:
• 
Through the front gate: The Company could just try 
walking in, either in disguise (as wandering mercenaries 
or minstrels), or brazenly as themselves, feigning that 
10

--- PAGE 113 ---
113
they know nothing of Orlmond’s imprisonment of 
Prince Bain. Convicing Orlmond to let them in requires 
a DC 20 Intelligence (Traditions) or Charisma 
(Persuasion) check, based on whether Orlmond is a 
prisoner himself or not.
• 
Over the walls: A good burglar could climb over 
the wooden outer wall easily, sneak up through the 
outbuildings and sheds in the bailey, then find a way 
over the sturdy inner wall and from there into the 
keep. Doing so requires at least three DC 15 Dexterity 
(Stealth) checks.
• 
The gutter stream: A stream of water – black with 
filth and waste from the castle kitchens – runs down 
the steep western side of the mound. An adventurous 
thief with a strong stomach could climb up this steep, 
stony gutter and somehow find a way through the iron 
grating where it runs under the outer stone wall. From 
there, they can follow the stream into the keep via a 
narrow tunnel. Climbing up the gutter stream is a DC 
10 Athletics check.
Once in the keep, the companions must find a way down 
into the dungeon. The only door is locked, and the key 
kept by Orlmond. Furthermore, the door is guarded by 
a ferocious hound (a beast as strong as a Wolf Leader) 
that savagely attacks any intruders. Getting past Girion’s 
hound without raising the alarm is almost impossible – 
an Elf with the gift of The Speakers might be able to soothe 
the beast with a DC 15 Charisma (Performance), a 
Woodman who keeps her own hound might make a DC 
15 Wisdom (Insight) check to calm it or someone with 
Herb-lore could make a DC 15 Wisdom (Medicine) 
check to drug the beast with the right herbs mixed in with 
its meat.
Prince Bain is kept in a lightless cell in the dungeon. When 
the Company rescues him, he decides that it is time that 
Girion pay for his crimes once and for all, and asks them to 
accompany him as he storms the castle above. Move onto 
Storming the Castle, below.
Gathering Allies
Should the companions prefer to besiege the castle, they 
must first gather allies. There are four prospective factions 
they might call on for aid:
• 
Dale. Travelling to the town of Dale itself means 
walking into the lion’s den. Girion has many supporters 
and allies in Dale, especially in the Royal Palace. Most 
dangerous of all, though, is Valdis herself. The Great 
Vampire regularly visits King Bard to keep the king 
weak and delirious. If Valdis is still alive, then she may 
attack any companions who travel to Dale. 
If the companions have already dealt with the Vampire 
queen, then King Bard is on the mend. With healing 
and inspiring words, they can rouse the old man (he is 
over sixty years old by now) and have him ride out once 
more to put down the pretender and rescue his son.
• 
In the Dalelands. The locals are supporters of Girion, 
and have long grudges against the Elves. However, if 
the Company can convince them that the Woodland 
Realm is not to be feared, and that young Girion is a 
traitor in league with dark forces, they can cut Girion’s 
support off and deny him reinforcements. 
• 
Erebor. A Dwarf of good reputation can plead with 
King Dáin to intercede, and send warriors to besiege 
Castle Orlmond. The Dwarves helped build the keep, 
and know it well. They know how to break down the 
gates and breach the walls.
• 
The Elves of Mirkwood. Thranduil’s Halls are not far 
from Castle Orlmond, and the soldiers of the wood are 
few in number but great in valour. Thranduil knows, 
though, that the strength of the Elves is doomed to 
dwindle, and must be convinced to spend a portion of 
that strength on mortal affairs.
Besieging the Castle
The difficulty of besieging the castle varies depending on 
the preparations made by the Company and the allies they 
have. If the companions are few in number, then taking a 
strong castle defended by so many foes will be very difficult 
(anyone proficient with History knows that, traditionally, 
the attacker needs at least three times as many warriors 
as the defender to take a fortified castle). However, if the 
companions gather a huge force behind them, then the 
courage of Girion’s men flees them and they surrender.
If Girion does not yield, then the swords will decide. The 
Loremaster should describe in broad strokes the course of 
10
The Years of the Plague: 2967-2974

--- PAGE 114 ---
Mirkwood Campaign
114
the battle — how the defenders hurl down boiling oil and 
arrows; how the attackers breach the gate and burst into 
the bailey; how the foes are driven back up the hill and so 
forth — and concentrate on the actions and the point of 
view of the companions.
Young Girion is no coward, and takes part in the battle. If 
the fighting takes place at night, then his mother may also 
join the fray.
Girion
Medium Human
STR 
17 (+3)
DEX 
15 (+2)
CON 
15 (+2)
INT 
11 (+0)
WIS 
8 (-1)
CHA 
19 (+4)
Armour Class 20 (Scale Hauberk and Great Shield)
Hit Points 78 (12d8+24)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Perception +1, Survival +1, Traditions +2
Senses passive Perception 11
Languages Westron
Challenge 5 (1,800 XP)
Leadership. As a bonus action, Girion can command 
a nearby Warrior to take his turn immediately after 
Girion’s turn.
Savage Assault. When Girion rolls a natural 18 or 19 
he may use his bonus action to make a single additional 
melee attack against the same opponent.
Actions
Multiattack. Girion makes three melee attacks.
Longsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 7 (1d8+3) slashing damage or 8 (1d10+3) 
piercing damage if used with both hands.
Storming the Castle
Once it becomes clear that the battle is lost, young Girion 
and his guards retreat back to the keep and lock the doors 
behind them to make their last stand in the great arched 
feast-hall above. What the companions find there when 
they finally force open the doors depends on their previous 
actions: 
• 
If Valdis is still alive: the companions find that all the 
guards are dead. Climbing the stairs to the main hall, 
they discover that Valdis has drained the blood from all 
her son’s soldiers. As they enter, the Vampire drops the 
body she holds and attacks.
If the companions have not yet rescued Prince Bain, 
then she has just drained his blood. The Company can 
still save him, but he needs immediate assistance.
 
If Prince Bain is free, then in her thirst and madness 
Valdis turned on her own son! Girion lies dead at her 
feet.
• 
If Valdis is dead, and Prince Bain is a captive: the 
companions enter the great hall to see Girion holding 
Bain hostage, a dagger to his throat. Words come 
spilling out of Girion, about how he is destined to rule 
Dale and how he is the only true heir. 
 
Girion was unaware of his mother’s machinations, and 
is convinced that he is an enemy of the Shadow. The 
Company can try to convince Girion to surrender with 
a DC 20 Charisma (Persuasion) check.
 
Alternatively, they can find a way to stop him from 
stabbing Bain – say, with an accurate bow-shot.
• 
If Girion has neither Valdis nor Bain: The young 
lord loses his mind and fights to the death, screaming 
that the companions are servants of the Shadow, and 
that doom has come.
Year’s End
Any companion who helped in healing King Bard or in 
saving Prince Bain may choose the Receive Title (Barding 
Thegn) undertaking this year (see box below).
Receive Title (Barding Thegn)
King Bard has invited the companion to enter his 
service as a thegn, as a recognition for his deeds. 
To accept the title, the adventurer must spend the 
Fellowship phase in Dale and choose the Receive Title 
undertaking. The companion is granted a tract of land 
to dwell upon, either in the Northern Dalelands, or 
in the Upper or Nether Marches. The land grant can 
serve as a holding and its initial Rating is equal to 
half the hero’s Proficiency Bonus, rounded down.
13
13

--- PAGE 115 ---
115
- Year 2974 -
For heroes of level 14 or 15
Events
Word is sent from Woodmen-town that a great folk-moot 
will be held at midsummer next year, to discuss the fate of 
the Houses.
A fierce storm strikes the land of the Beornings, scattering 
their herds and tearing the roofs from their homes.
Adventuring Phase: 
Beorn’s Quest
Beorn calls his most trusted men to him; if the companions 
are among those he considers friends, then they are 
counted in this number. They meet in secret at the Carrock 
one night. 
“I have to go away for a while,” says Beorn. “There are things 
I must do. If I do not come back, then my son Grimbeorn 
will take my place when he is of age. Until then, he will be 
in the care and tutelage of his mother, and some of you will 
have to run things in my absence. Do not meddle in the 
affairs of others, do not let anyone tell you what to do. And 
try not to upset my bees.”
He then turns to the companions. “I’ll need company on the 
journey. I won’t bother warning you that it will be dangerous 
and we might well all die horribly – I gather those are the 
sort of journeys you’re used to. So, are you coming?”
The Werewolf
If one of the Company has become the new Werewolf 
of Mirkwood (see The Dying of the Light) then Beorn 
insists that he come with Beorn on his journey. There 
is, says Beorn, someone that the skinchanger must 
talk to. 
Into the Misty Mountains
The companions set off from Beorn’s stead and travel west, 
towards the purple line of the Misty Mountains in the 
distance. They cross the Great River at the Carrock, then 
their path takes to the north-west, to the tallest peaks where 
the Eagles make their nests. Indeed, the companions see a 
number of great birds circling far overhead. Beorn waves 
at them, but instead of landing they wheel around and fly 
west, travelling very fast and very far as if they intend to 
cross the sea.
The early parts of the journey pass uneventfully. Beorn 
refuses to talk about where they are going, saying that he is 
sworn to secrecy. They will see what they see, he says, and 
think what they think, and that is the end of that – if they 
get there.
From Beorn’s House to the mountains covers some sixty 
miles of easy terrain. This land is watched by the Beornings, 
and there are no dangers; indeed, the Beornings in that 
region welcome the Company to stay with them each night. 
After that, though, their journey takes them across the 
trackless foothills of the Misty Mountains for some forty 
miles.
The journey starts From Auspicious Beginnings and 
prompts 1d2 Journey Events before the Company reaches 
the mountains. The Peril Rating is 3, Beorn is leading the 
Company into a region where travellers rarely go.
Attack of the Mountain-trolls
As the companions travel, stones begin to rain down 
on them from far above. They have trespassed into the 
territory of a pack of Mountain-trolls, who haunt the peaks 
far above. The thick mists shroud the Trolls from view, so 
the companions are taken by surprise.
As the rocks fall all around them, each member of the 
Company must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw. On 
a failure, the hero takes 14 (4d6) bludgeoning damage or 
half of that on a successful save. A hero that fails by 5 or 
more has been knocked Prone by the rocks. Prone heroes 
must make another saving throw (as above) before they 
escape the deadly stone downpour.
If the companions survive this initial assault, they can 
climb the cliffs to attack the Mountain-trolls or ignore them 
6
6
The Years of the Plague: 2967-2974

--- PAGE 116 ---
Mirkwood Campaign
116
and run past. If they attack the trolls, there is one Mountain-
troll for each hero. Beorn will not join the fight unless the 
heroes plead… he considers them foolish to have attacked 
the trolls over their sport.
Crossing the Border
Beorn leads the Company higher and higher, past the snow-
line, into a grey realm of jagged peaks and howling winds. 
The air is frightfully thin and cold up here, on the roof of 
the world. At night, the stars are strange, as if huge unseen 
shapes pressed against the firmament from the far side.
“We are almost there,” says Beorn through his frost-rimed 
beard. “If you want to turn back now, you can. If you want 
to come with me, though, then you must promise never to 
speak to anyone about what you see from this point on.” 
The next day is the hardest of all. It is as though the 
landscape was created to stop anyone crossing it. Every 
foothold is treacherous and tries to send the traveller falling 
to the sharp rocks below. The wind is a malicious thing that 
deliberately tries to push a traveller off-course, or blows 
snow and dust into their eyes. The biting cold is malicious.
• 
All characters must make three DC 15 Constitution 
saving throws. Heroes that pass two or more of the 
saving throws can continue, but other companions 
find their bodies falling on them in the thin air and 
biting cold. They cannot continue.
The Guardian
At the end of the day, the companions arrive at a sheer cliff 
that blocks their path. From certain angles though, the cliff 
looks like a gigantic stone face, as if an immense giant was 
buried in the living rock of the mountain. Beorn calls out 
to the face.
“Ho, old one. Wake up and let us pass.”
A mighty echo makes the booming voice of Beorn crack like 
thunder. The ground shakes. Rocks fall as part of the cliff 
crumbles. When the dust subsides, it is as if the features 
of the face changed, and its eyes opened! A deep, vibrant 
voice seem to emerge from the very roots of the mountain, 
making the legs of the companions tremble.
“HRMMM. WHO WAKES ME? IS THAT YOU, BEORN?”
“Let me past, old one. I have business beyond.”
“WHO ELSE IS THAT WHO WALKS ON MY SNOWY BEARD?”
The companions should introduce themselves. A DC 15 
Intelligence (Traditions) check is in order, and anyone 
brazen enough to try and use Intimidation or Riddle on 
a mountain makes Beorn erupt with laughter. But the voice 
is unimpressed anyway. It scorns the Company and their 
words.
“MORTALS AND STRAY ELVES, BEORN? NOTHING MORE? 
YOU INSULT ME…”
Beorn beckons the Company aside and explains what is 
happening.
“This thing is not necessarily an evil thing, but the life and 
the problems of mortals are but a trifle to it. I had hoped 
that it would let us past on my word alone, but the world 
is changing. If you want to get past, then you have to pay a 
toll. Impress it somehow, take a vow or give it something.”
Suitable gifts for the guardian include:
• 
Some wonderful treasure (worth 50g or more).
• 
Taking a vow never to cross the Misty Mountains again 
(the companion might still travel west by taking the 
Gap of Rohan).
• 
Singing a song for the guardian that makes it weep (a 
DC 18 Charisma (Performance) check)
Otherwise, the Company and Beorn are stuck. They cannot 
push through, and Beorn will be forced to lead them back, 
before eventually returning alone.
The Other Side
If the companions pay the guardian its due, after a while 
they spot a narrow set of stairs that wasn’t there before, 
leading to a secret vale in the mountains. Thick fog turns the 
vale into a strange, ghostly land. Beorn leads the Company 
through the mist-shrouded trees.
Some time later, the companions feel an irresistible urge 
to lay down and sleep. Beorn is feeling the need to rest too 
and invites the companions to lay down and stop worrying. 
When they wake up, night has come and the sky is alight 
9
14

--- PAGE 117 ---
117
with a thousand stars. The mist still covers most of their 
surroundings.
The Hunter Comes
After a while, the heroes hear a hunting horn in the 
distance and the sound of thundering hooves. Keen-eyed 
companions believe they see a rider approaching, and 
moments later everyone sees the terrifying, awesome 
figure of a hunter on horseback, Man-like, yet greater in 
size, accompanied by four huge bears who follow him like 
hounds. 
Beorn bows his head. “Show no fear, but raise no weapon. 
We must be resolute.”
And then the Hunter is upon them, like the crashing of a 
great wave, like an onrushing storm. This rider is neither 
Elf nor mortal Man, but a being older and stronger than the 
Dark Lord himself. All companions must make a Wisdom 
saving throw, with a DC equal to 10, plus the companion’s 
current Shadow rating.
• 
Any companions who fail are unable to endure the 
presence of the Hunter and must flee before him. If all 
the companions fail, then Beorn is taken by the Hunter 
and is never seen again.
• 
If more than half the companions fail, the Hunter shakes 
his head. Beorn nods, then turns to the Company. “I 
must leave you know. When my son Grimbeorn is of 
age, bring him here so he may take my mantle.”
• 
If half or more the companions succeed, then the 
Hunter salutes them. Beorn bows, and the Hunter rides 
by. “I pass the test,” says Beorn, “he has seen that I am 
still a friend to the Free Peoples.”
• 
If the entire Company succeeds, then the Hunter blows 
a triumphant blast on the hunting horn. All present 
companions raise their Wisdom score by 2 and 
now have a maximum for that ability of 22. Beorn is 
overjoyed, and explains that the Hunter has honoured 
the Company. They may return to the lowlands with 
joy in their hearts.
If Beorn is still with the companions in their return journey, 
they may ask the skinchanger about the strange Hunter as 
they descend the mountains. The old skinchanger shrugs 
his vast shoulders. “The Hunter has many names,” he says. 
“Béma, some in the North call him, for his voice can be 
heard for miles. Araw, the Elves name him, for the same 
reason. He has been a friend to the Elves since he found 
them, long long ago. He dwells in the West, far away…”
Year’s End 
Nothing of note.
14
14
The Years of the Plague: 2967-2974

--- PAGE 118 ---
Mirkwood Campaign
118
The Werewolf of Mirkwood
If one of the companions is possessed by the spirit of the Werewolf of Mirkwood, then she must make a more difficult 
Wisdom saving throw when confronted by the Hunter. The DC is equal to 15, plus the companion’s Shadow rating.
The skinchanging hero knows that if she fails the test, the Hunter will take her. The companion also knows that she may 
enjoy a better chance to please the Hunter by taking on geases, imposing on herself a number of magical obligations.
The hero may reduce the DC by accepting one or more strictures (DC -2 for each obligation). Should the companion 
ever fail to honour the geases she has taken on (if any) she will gain a point of Shadow and her skinchanging powers 
will fail her for one full year.
For each vow, roll a d12:
1.	 The Hunter imposes a particularly grievous geas, roll twice more on this table but reduce the DC  
only by 2.
2.	 Never eat meat in a particular place (choose a location or region).
3.	 Never eat anything but one type of food (choose one).
4.	 Never cross a stream of running water in a particular season (choose one).
5.	 Never embark upon a journey under a full moon.
6.	 Never quarrel or fight with a member of a certain folk (choose one Culture).
7.	 Never refuse to give quarter to a member of a certain folk (choose one Culture).
8.	 Never sleep under the same roof as your fellow companions.
9.	 Never refuse the demand of a Wizard.
10.	Never flee from an enemy (choose one enemy creature type).
11.	Never fail to return home on Yule-tide.
12.	Choose a geas of any type or roll again.
If the skinchanger eventually fails the Wisdom saving throw, then the Hunter takes the companion with him when 
he leaves, removing her from the campaign forever. 
If the test is passed, then the curse of the Werewolf is lifted, and the companion is granted permission to take on the 
shape of a wolf, just as Beorn can become a bear: the skinchanger may reduce her Shadow score by 3 points and from 
now on she does not need to make a saving throw against Corruption when she takes a Fellowship phase. The evil of 
the Werewolf is cleansed, and the beast can now be a force for good.

--- PAGE 119 ---
119
The darkening of 
Mirkwood:
- 2975-2977 -
The Shadow over the forest grows, and life in Mirkwood 
outside the Woodland Realm becomes untenable. The 
Woodmen are faced with a choice between fleeing or 
making a last desperate assault on Dol Guldur.
- Year 2975 -
For heroes of level 14 or 15
Events
Dol Guldur looses a tide of evil on the wood. Orcs pour 
out of Fenbridge Castle, and Spiders cross the Dusky River 
using webbing as bridges.
Dark stormclouds hang low over the whole of Mirkwood 
for weeks at a time, deepening the gloom and terrifying the 
animals.
In the north, meltwater from the Grey Mountains causes 
the Forest River to burst its banks and become unnavigable 
for weeks. The force of the rushing river is enough to tear 
down the ancient stone bridge outside Thranduil’s halls. 
Pushed by the Wayward Elves (and by his own dark moods, 
if he woke up from his poisoned sleep in 2970) the Elvenking 
himself rides south to Woodmen-town, accompanied by a 
host of Elves, to seek the return of the Lamp.
Adventuring Phase: 
The Last Folk-Moot
The Woodmen gather at Woodmen-town. Ten years ago, 
the great hall here could not have held more than a fraction 
of their warriors and chieftains. Now, all the champions 
of the Houses of the Woodmen gather here and the hall 
is not even crowded. The Lamp of Balthi hangs above 
them, its light undiminished despite the gathering gloom 
outside.
The war-leader of the Woodmen addresses the diminished 
crowd. After he speaks, other Woodmen advocate the other 
options listed below.
If Mogdred is the war-leader — or if Ceawin is the leader, 
and he is still in the thrall of the Wood-wight — then the 
war-leader calls for an attack on Dol Guldur. For too long 
the Woodmen have suffered in the darkness. The White 
Council drove the Shadow away thirty years ago. What 
Wizards can do, surely the brave warriors of the Wood 
can do so too? They shall march with the Lamp of Balthi 
as their banner, and lift the Shadow from the forest. 
If another Loremaster character is the war-leader, then 
they speak sadly of the plight of the Woodmen. The plague 
and other horrors have robbed the Woodmen of their 
strength. Few children remain alive.
Madness and death stalk the forest. Perhaps it is time 
to leave their homes, to seek a better life elsewhere in 
Wilderland. They could flee north, to the land of the 
Beornings, or to the cold forests of Northern Mirkwood, 
and abandon the halls of their ancestors.
Other Woodmen elders insist that they must endure. There 
have been dark years before, when the Shadow lay heavily 
on the forest. They can survive here, as their forefathers did, 
if only they have courage. The Lamp will protect them.
The Elves Arrive
King Thranduil and a retinue of Elven warriors arrive at 
twilight. The Elvenking asks for permission to enter out of 
courtesy, but will not take no for an answer, nor do the 
Woodmen have the strength to bar their door against the 
Elvenking and his warriors. Inside, Thranduil points to the 
shining Lamp of Balthi.
“That Lamp was made by my kin, and hung from the door 
of my father’s hall. It belongs to the Elves, and must be 
returned to us. In my hall it will be safe. Leave it here, and 
the Enemy will take it and destroy it.”
Some of the Woodmen seem willing to listen to the Elves; 
others angrily argue back, saying that Thranduil is trying 
to steal their last treasure, their last hope with Elvish 
trickery.
9
The Darkening of Mirkwood: 2975-2977

--- PAGE 120 ---
Mirkwood Campaign
120
One overly impetuous young warrior even picks up his 
axe – and suddenly freezes as if mesmerised. An old man 
in drab brown robes emerges from the shadows in the 
corner. Radagast the Brown raises his voice and challenges 
Thranduil.
“The Lamp was made by the Elves of Hollin, my lord, not 
your kin. If any living soul owns that Lamp, then it is Elrond 
of Rivendell who has the best claim, for those few who 
survived the ruin of Hollin now reside in his hidden valley. 
The Lamp should go to Rivendell.”
The First Choice
Radagast turns to the companions. “Your deeds are known 
to all who stand here. They shall abide by your decision. 
What is to be done with the Lamp?”
The players must choose the fate of the Lamp of Balthi:
• 
If they leave the Lamp where it stands, then the 
Woodmen have the best chance of survival, but the 
Lamp will be in terrible danger. The forces of Dol 
Guldur know where the Lamp is, and they will keep 
trying to destroy it.
• 
If they leave the Lamp to Thranduil, then he will lock it 
away in his vaults. The Lamp will continue to shine its 
light over Mirkwood, and maybe that will be enough 
to keep the Shadow out of the northern forest – but 
the land of the Woodmen will certainly fall under the 
Shadow.
• 
If they send the Lamp to Rivendell, then it will be safe 
(or, at least, as safe as any place in Middle-earth can 
be), but Mirkwood will be lost to the Shadow. The Elves 
may endure, but the Woodmen have little chance of 
surviving in Mirkwood.
Radagast will advise the companions, but the ultimate 
decision is theirs. If the companions do not choose to give 
the Lamp to Thranduil, then the Elvenking respects their 
decision, but many of the Wayward Elves do not. Their 
hostility grows, as they no longer accept Thranduil as king.
The Second Choice
Once the companions have decided what to do with the 
Lamp, the Woodmen must decide what they will do next.
Only Woodmen companions may speak in this last debate, 
or those who have been recognised as Heroes of the 
Woodmen (see page 86).
Do they advocate for an attack on Dol Guldur, to stay where 
they are or to abandon their halls and leave Mirkwood?
9
9

--- PAGE 121 ---
121
If the war-leader of the Woodmen serves Dol Guldur 
(Mogdred or a still-possessed Ceawin), then they continue 
to press for an attack on the black hold. Otherwise, the 
war-leader’s recommended course of action is determined 
by the fate of the Lamp. A passionate companion could 
convince the Woodmen to follow one path or another.
If the folk-moot has decided for an attack on Dol Guldur, the 
Woodmen begin mustering their forces. The companions 
may wish to summon allies or call in any debts they have 
obtained over the course of the campaign. The actual attack 
takes place next year.
• 
Next year play the adventure The March of the 
Woodmen.
If the folk-moot has resolved to send the Lamp of Balthi to 
the safety of Rivendell, then someone has to carry it over 
the Misty Mountains and find the hidden vale of Imladris.
• 
Next year play the adventure To Rivendell.
If the folk-moot accepted to give the Lamp to Thranduil, then 
the Elvenking carries it back to his halls. If the Woodmen 
decided to guard their borders, then without the protection 
of the Lamp, the Western Eaves are overrun by the Shadow 
in the coming years.
Year’s End
Nothing of note.
- Year 2976 -
For heroes of level 15 or Higher
Events
If the Lamp of Balthi is taken from Woodmen-town, then 
the Western Eaves of Mirkwood become first a Wild Land; 
then, both the Western Eaves and Western Mirkwood 
degenerate into Shadow Lands. The Heart of Mirkwood 
and the Narrows of the Forest become Dark Lands. The Peril 
Rating of any journey in these areas is raised by 1 as well.
If the Elves of Mirkwood possess the Lamp of Balthi, then 
there is light and feasting in the halls of Thranduil. Any 
Elf of Mirkwood may spend Inspiration to reduce their 
Shadow score by 2 (this may only be done once per hero). 
If the Woodmen chose to leave their halls, then they settle 
in the lands of the Beornings and the fringes of Northern 
Mirkwood. Raising new settlements is hard work, and 
many will perish in the cold years to come.
If the folk-moot chose to assault Dol Guldur, play The March 
of the Woodmen this year. If the Lamp will be taken to the 
Last Homely House, play To Rivendell.
Adventuring Phase: 
The March of the Woodmen
War-bands from all Houses of the Woodmen gather at 
Woodmen-town. Warriors come from Woodland Hall and 
Rhosgobel. If the companions have good relations with the 
folk of Mountain Hall, then they send many warriors too; 
otherwise, the Mountain-folk send only a handful of hardy 
axe-men, but keep the greater part of their strength back. If 
the Tyrant’s Hill or Sunstead are still part of the Woodmen, 
then they too send warriors.
If the Woodmen carry the Lamp of Balthi with them as their 
banner, then its light seems to change as it is lifted aloft, 
becoming more fiery and piercing as if the Lamp senses the 
darkness of the hour. 
The war-leader must determine the tactics for the army. Do 
they take boats down to the Black Tarn or do they march 
14
The Darkening of Mirkwood: 2975-2977

--- PAGE 122 ---
Mirkwood Campaign
122
along the banks of the Dusky River? Do they march out in 
the open, following the edge of the forest down the Vales of 
Anduin, or use the forest as cover and try to take the enemy 
by surprise?
Death at Day’s Ending
An attack on Dol Guldur is a doomed endeavour. 
The warriors who go to war will never return. Any 
companions who embark on this quest will likely perish. 
The Loremaster should tell the players this before 
the adventure begins - as it is what their characters 
know in their hearts. Victory is impossible. However, 
if the Woodmen inflict enough damage on the forces 
of Dol Guldur, they can drive back the darkness for 
many years. They could buy time for the Woodmen 
to survive for another generation or two in the woods. 
The companions may well die here – but their deeds 
will live on.
Tracking the Fighting Strength of the Woodmen
The numbers and combat ability of the Woodmen force is 
measured using a value called Fighting Strength. Fighting 
Strength starts at 7, and is increased as follows:
• 
+1 if Mountain Hall sends warriors
• 
+1 if the Tyrant’s Hill sends warriors
• 
+1 if Sunstead sends warriors
• 
+1 per ally the Company brings
• 
+3 if the companions bring the Lamp of Balthi
If the Fighting Strength of the Woodmen is ever reduced to 
0, then their army is vanquished and scattered.
Treachery
If the war-leader of the Woodmen is in the service of Dol 
Guldur, then he leads them into a trap. He urges them on, 
faster and faster, to take the enemy by surprise. This haste 
means that the Woodmen Scouts cannot range ahead of 
the advancing forces to give adequate warning and the

--- PAGE 123 ---
123
army finds itself trapped between Fenbridge Castle (or Dol 
Guldur) and a host of Orcs and Spiders that emerge from 
the trees. Pit the companions against many Orcs, Trolls and 
Hunter Spiders… there are at least one of each foe-kind for 
each hero.
•  The ambush reduces Fighting Strength by 1d6.
Fenbridge Castle
The second obstacle to be overcome is Fenbridge Castle. 
This fortress blocks the only safe path to Dol Guldur. The 
Woodmen can choose to either besiege the castle or else try 
crossing the swamps beyond it.
Besieging the castle drains the army’s Fighting Strength by 
1 point per day. Each day, roll a d20. On the result of 20, the 
castle falls. Reduce this threshold by 2 each day. So, on the 
second day of siege, the castle falls on a 18+, on the third 
16+, and so on.
• 
Heroic actions by the companions, such as scaling 
the walls, slaying monsters or sneaking into the castle 
allow Advantage on the next day’s check.
• 
If a companion is the war-leader, a successful DC 15 
Charisma (Intimidation) or Intelligence (Lore) 
check reduces the threshold by 1, or by 3 if the hero’s 
total is 20 or higher.
The swamps are a death trap for a whole army, and many 
Woodmen perish in the mud. If this road is taken, then the 
Fighting Strength of the Woodmen is reduced by 1d6.
The Battle of Dol Guldur
Finally, the Woodmen come to the very gate of the Hill of 
Sorcery, and the full strength of Dol Guldur is loosed upon 
them. The battle begins with a sudden wave of unreasoning 
terror; each companion must pass a DC 15 Wisdom saving 
throw — if more than half the heroes fail this test, they are 
Surprised as the battle begins. This fear also reduces the 
Fighting Strength of the Woodmen by 1.
Next, the Loremaster should roll a d12 and consult the 
table below to determine what sort of foes the Company 
faces. Each roll also reduces the Fighting Strength of the 
Woodmen. Roll at the beginning of each round, stopping 
only when all the companions are dead, or when the 
Fighting Strength of the Woodmen is reduced to 0. The 
result of the roll takes effect at the end of the current round 
(usually meaning that more enemies join the battle for 
the next round). The Loremaster should note the number 
of times that he rolls on the Battle of Dol Guldur table — 
each roll means that the Shadow of the Enemy is lifted from 
Mirkwood for a little longer.
Roll
Foes
Fighting 
Strength 
Reduction
1
The Lieutenant of Dol Guldur 
rides forth in full panoply of 
battle to face the companions. 
Roll again on this table to 
determine his bodyguard — on 
a 1 another Nazgûl joins him, 
reroll a result of 12.
-3
2
One of the Children of Shelob 
arrives.
-2
3
Mountain-trolls (one for every 
two heroes)
-2
4
Black-uruks (one per hero), led 
by a Great Orc
-2
5
Wood-wights (one per hero)
-1
6
A swarm of Spiders (two 
Attercops and one Hunter Spider 
per hero)
-1
7
A pack of Wargs (one Wild Wolf 
per hero, led by a Hound of 
Sauron)
-1
8
Servants of Tyrant’s Hill (two 
servants and two Savage 
Hounds per hero) These could 
be brigands of the Toft if Amon 
Bauglir is no more.
-1
9
A host of Forest Goblins (two per 
hero)
0
10
A miserable, beaten force of 
slaves (use Thugs) and Wild Men 
of Mirkwood. (One each per 
hero.)
0
11
A pack of shrieking Goblin 
Archers and Orc Soldiers (one 
each per hero).
0
12
A breathing space — the battle 
moves away from the Company 
long enough that they may take 
a short rest.
0
14
15
The Darkening of Mirkwood: 2975-2977

--- PAGE 124 ---
Mirkwood Campaign
124
Aftermath
The companions — and a whole generation of Woodmen 
warriors — lie dead beneath the trees. What have they won 
with their heroism? Compare the number of rolls on the 
table above to the entries below:
Number 
of Rolls
Result
1
Dol Guldur cannot attack this year, so any 
surviving Woodmen families can flee safely, 
but all of Mirkwood south of the Elf-path is 
lost to the darkness.
2-3
The Shadow is beaten back for a few years, 
giving the Woodmen time to rebuild, but 
they cannot escape the Shadow.
4-5
The sons of the Woodmen who died here 
will face a renewed Shadow in the years 
to come, but there may be as many as ten 
years of peace.
6-10
A generation lives peacefully in Mirkwood, 
as the wounded Shadow retreats to lick 
its wounds and rebuild its strength. The 
Woodmen survive in Mirkwood.
11 or 
more
The power of Dol Guldur is broken. The 
Woodmen thrive in Mirkwood until the War 
of the Ring brings new enemies from the 
East and South.
Adventuring Phase: 
To Rivendell
The journey to Rivendell is a long one and perilous even in 
good years, and this is far from a good year. The Enemy can 
sense the movement of the Lamp of Balthi, and will not let 
it go easily. The Messenger of Mordor is dispatched from 
Dol Guldur to recover the Lamp before it reaches Rivendell.
The Journey
From Woodmen-town to the High Pass is a journey of 
some 180 miles, mostly through relatively friendly and 
gentle terrain. The baleful influence of Dol Guldur means 
the Company faces fierce storms and driving rain, but 
such weather is pleasant compared to the grim terrain of 
Mirkwood. The companions are followed and harassed 
by Orcs and Wargs, but these attacks are not a significant 
danger to such experienced heroes. The Peril Rating of this 
part of the journey is 2 and the Company faces 1d2 Journey 
Events. More worrying are rumours of a rider in black, 
a dark figure that passed through these lands, bringing 
sorrow and fear with it. It is as though the Messenger of 
Mordor is circling around the Company, never far away, 
always both behind and ahead but never in view. Wherever 
the Messenger goes, it awakens things of evil: cruel men 
with watchful eyes, hungry beasts and evil spirits.
The companions know they are being watched and followed 
as they draw closer to the mountains.
The Voice in the Night
On the evening before the companions reach the High Pass, 
a terrible storm blows out of the east. Snow and high winds 
swirl around the mountains, so wild that even the Eagles 
could not fly in such a tempest. The companions realise 
that crossing the High Pass will be a test for even the most 
seasoned traveller.
That night, the Look-out hears a noise in the darkness, like 
something sniffing the air. Then a voice whispering into 
the companion’s ear. It is a cold voice, like frost cracking 
a gravestone, like the death rattle of a sick man, like the 
winds of winter. Call for a DC 20 Wisdom saving throw; if 
the companion fails, he gains 3 Shadow points.
“Give me the Lamp. Give me the Lamp and I will give you 
gold.”
If the companion hesitates, the Nazgûl makes another 
offer. He might offer to spare the Look-out’s children, return 
some lost treasure of their people, free a loved one from the 
dungeons of Dol Guldur or lift some curse. 
If the Look-out rejects the offer, then all the sleeping 
companions have strange, disturbing dreams where 
similar offers are made to them; they must also all make 
Corruption checks, as above.
Crossing the Mountains 
The high pass is choked with ice and snow, meaning it is 
close to impassable (a Peril Rating of 4 with 1d2 Journey 
Events), and requiring twelve days to cross. Furthermore, 
the Nazgûl’s proximity makes this a Blighted place (requiring 
a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw each day to avoid gaining 
a Shadow point).
15
15
5
15

--- PAGE 125 ---
125
Due to the focused nature of this trek, use the following 
abbreviated Journey Event table:
Journey Event Table
2 (or less): Lost in the Mountains
The Guide must make a Wisdom (Survival) check. If the 
hero fails, then roll again on this table and immediately 
apply it as part of this event.
3 or 4: A Hidden Crevasse
The Scout must make an Intelligence (Investigation) check. 
If the hero fails, then the Scout does not notice an icy crevasse 
that crosses the Company’s path. A randomly determined 
hero (or the hero with the most gear) breaks the ice over the 
crevasse and falls 30 feet into the depths. Furthermore, the 
crevasse leads into the Goblin tunnels and they heard the 
companion come crashing down. They are coming… 
5 or 6: No Fire
The Company’s supply of fuel is lost, and without a fire they 
will perish. The Hunter must find a supply of wood to keep 
them alive. A successful Wisdom (Survival) check finds a 
small stand of trees in a sheltered alcove. However, these 
trees are watched by Orcs.
7 or 8: A Worse Place and A Blacker Danger
As the companions strike camp one cold evening, the clouds 
part overhead and a thousand thousand points of light 
hang in the firmament above. It is a night for stories. Each 
hero must make an Intelligence (History or Lore) check 
to recall the great deeds of ancient days. On a success, they 
gain Inspiration, but on a failure they gain 1 Shadow point 
as the tales turn to darkness and bitter defeats.
9 or 10: Stalking in the Night
The Look-out spots signs of Orcs trying to sneak up on the 
Company. If the hero fails a Wisdom (Perception) check, 
then the Orcs are able to ambush the Company one night 
(the heroes are Surprised by Great Orcs equal to their 
number). If the hero succeeds, then the Company may 
Surprise the orcs instead.
11 or more: Avalanche
The companions hear a loud, inhuman wail echoing up from 
somewhere far ahead. In response, the mountainside cracks 
and crumbles, sending tons of snow and rock pouring down 
towards the companions. Each hero must make a Strength 
(Athletics) check. Failing means the companion is swept away 
in the avalanche, taking 21 (6d6) bludgeoning damage.
The Last Foe
On the ninth day, the companions come to the crest of 
a ridge, and find that they have crossed the spine of the 
mountains. All of Eriador stretches out below them. 
Straight ahead, they can see the hills of the Trollshaws and 
the broken lands of the mountain foothills. To their right 
lies the snowy expanse of the Coldfells, and below them the 
sunlight glitters off the winding waters of the Loudwater. 
Somewhere in that unfamiliar wilderness lies the hidden 
valley of Rivendell.
As the companions descend the western slopes of the Misty 
Mountains, they spot a line of footprints in the snow. On 
closer examination, they are hoof-prints. Most of the trail 
is obscured by the shifting snows, but there is a clear line 
of prints ahead of the Company, left by a heavy horse. The 
Messenger of Mordor crossed the mountains first.
That night, as twilight draws in, the Nazgûl appears out of 
the darkness. “Give me the Lamp”, it hisses, “or perish”. It 
draws its long sword, and the steel of its blade is reflected 
in hundreds of eyes behind it. A host of Orcs crawled out of 
some noisome cavern in the foothills of the mountains, and 
now surround the Company.
There are too many Orcs to defeat. The companions have 
two options:
• 
Unveil the Lamp, and hope that scouts from Rivendell 
see the light. The burning Lamp of Balthi blazes with 
an unearthly radiance, as though a star descended 
to rest on the mountains. It is visible as far west as 
Weathertop. All the companions need to do is survive 
through the night, and the next day they will be met by 
the sons of Elrond who will escort them to Rivendell.
• 
Some flee, others stand and fight. If some members 
of the companions remained behind to hold back the 
Nazgûl, the others could escape down the mountainside 
to safety.
At Rivendell
Bright Elf-lords escort the Lamp of Balthi and its defenders 
into the hidden valley of Imladris. There, the companions 
meet with Elrond Halfelven, who invites them to rest in the 
Last Homely House. In its fabled Hall of Fire the Lamp of 
Balthi will hang, until even Rivendell will be no more.
15
The Darkening of Mirkwood: 2975-2977

--- PAGE 126 ---
Mirkwood Campaign
126
Year’s End
Companions in Rivendell may choose the Open Sanctuary 
undertaking.
- Year 2977 -
Events
In Erebor, Balin son of Fundin, one of the twelve companions 
of Thorin Oakenshield, suggests that the strength of the 
kingdom is growing, and that in a few years they could 
turn their gaze west to the halls of Durin. Any Dwarves, or 
even non-Dwarves of good reputation, might be invited to 
discuss this plan.
Epilogue: 
The Passing of the King
In this year, King Bard the Dragonslayer dies in bed, and the 
crown of Dale passes to his son, Prince Bain. Many gather 
in Dale, both to celebrate the new king and to discuss recent 
events in Wilderland.
Thirty years have passed since the Company first met in 
Wilderland. Thirty times have the black leaves fallen in the 
wild wood. A lifetime, as the short-lived Northmen reckon 
time; a brief spell for the immortal Elves. 
This final year is an opportunity for the surviving 
companions, if any, to reflect on their deeds and even lay 
down their burdens. Characters who helped Prince Bain in 
earlier adventures can retire to the safety of Dale. Others 
may prefer to continue adventuring outside Mirkwood.
The forest itself lies under a dark shadow. The Woodmen, 
if they still endure, are few in number. Radagast remains in 
his cottage at Rhosgobel, where he has lived for many years, 
but his absences grow longer and longer as he wanders 
the forest. Some rumours claim he goes to visit the River-
maidens, other stories say he travels through the wood in 
the shape of a bird or a fox.
In the south, the Messenger of Mordor leaves Dol Guldur. 
The Ringwraith is recalled to Barad-Dûr, to report to 
Sauron. What tidings does he bring the Dark Lord on his 
Dark Throne? Does the Nazgûl tell that the north is weak 
and divided, or does he speak of heroes that drove back the 
Shadow from the wood?
15

--- PAGE 127 ---
127
The Nazgûl of 
- Dol Guldur -
 Nine (rings) he gave to Mortal Men, proud and 
great, and so ensnared them. Long ago they 
fell under the dominion of the One, and they 
became Ringwraiths, shadows under his great 
Shadow, his most terrible servants.
The evil spirits sent by Sauron to reclaim Dol Guldur 
are three of the Nine Nazgûl, the apple of the Great Eye. 
The chief among them is the Black Easterling, second 
in command only after the Lord of Morgul himself, the 
Witch-king of Angmar.
When the Ringwraiths return to Mirkwood in 2951, Sauron 
has just entered his fastness in Mordor and is still far from 
reclaiming his ancient power. As their fate is inextricably 
linked to that of their Master, the Nazgûl of Dol Guldur are 
yet but a dark reflection of what the Nine will become in 
sixty years time, when the Lord of the Rings will unleash 
them and their Black Captain to hunt for the One Ring.
In gaming terms, this lesser stature is reflected in the 
three Nazgûl’s statistics; the power of the Ringwraiths 
will progressively become higher as the Shadow grows, in 
anticipation of the War of the Ring. Future supplements 
will track the growing power of the Enemy.
Dark Undead or Unclad and Invisible
The Nazgûl wear robes or suits of armour to assume a 
shape when they must have dealings with the living. But 
even when given a physical shape they cannot be easily 
destroyed, for the power of their Master is in them as long 
as the Ruling Ring endures. Use the Nazgûl’s entry as Dark 
Undead when it confronts the heroes in physical form.
However, the Ringwraiths may choose to appear as 
incorporeal ghosts. In this form few weapons in Middle-
earth can assault them, and even the Elves perceive them 
only as dark shadows upon the world. Use the Nazgûl’s 
stats for Unclad and Invisible when they are spirits of 
creeping horror and dread.
The Black Shadow
A victim of the Black Shadow remains Unconscious 
for a number of days equal to his Shadow score. For 
each day spent in this state, the hero must make a DC 
15 Wisdom saving throw (this is reduced to DC 10 if 
tended to by someone familiar with The Weapons of 
the Enemy (see the Player’s Guide, page 68). Each 
failed saving throw adds 1 Shadow point to the hero, 
but does not extend the time spent Unconscious.
While the hero is Unconscious, if his Shadow score ever 
exceeds his Wisdom score then the character slips into 
even deeper dreams and then dies. 
If the hero resists for the length of the malady, he 
finally overcomes his sickness and wakes up (but 
maintains his new Shadow score).
The Nazgûl of Dol Guldur

--- PAGE 128 ---
Mirkwood Campaign
128
The Lieutenant of Dol Guldur
Chief of the three Wraiths of the forest, the Lieutenant remains Unclad and Invisible while in Dol Guldur, speaking from 
the shadows as the Necromancer did. When he must go abroad as a Dark Undead he is clad as a tall Easterling warrior 
wearing a black suit of armour, his invisible face concealed behind a heavy mask.
The Lieutenant of Dol Guldur as 
Dark Undead
Medium Undead
STR 
14 (+2)
DEX 
10 (+0)
CON 
19 (+4)
INT 
10 (+0)
WIS 
11 (+0)
CHA 
18 (+4)
Armour Class 17 (Black Easterling Armour)
Hit Points 136 (16d8+64)
Speed 30 ft
Damage Resistances non-magical bludgeoning, piercing 
and slashing; cold, psychic 
Condition Immunities Blinded, Deafened, Frightened, 
Paralysed, Petrified, Stunned
Skills Intimidation +8, Perception +4
Senses Truesight 30 ft (otherwise blind), passive 
Perception 14
Languages Easterling, Black Speech, Orcish, Westron
Challenge 12 (8,400 XP)
Deadly Voice. The Ringwraiths scream at their enemies 
with long-drawn wails that rise to a deafeningly high 
piercing note. The Lieutenant can use his bonus action to 
make a Frightened creature become Stunned until the end 
of his next turn.
Fear of Fire. If a torch or other flame comes within 10 feet 
of him, the Ringwraith suffers Disadvantage on his attack 
rolls.
Gathering Shadows. If the Lieutenant of Dol Guldur is 
accompanied by either The Messenger of Mordor or The 
Ghost of the Forest, then the DC for saving throws against 
his abilities are raised by 1. If both accompany him, the DC 
is raised by 2.
Legendary. The Lieutenant can take one Legendary action 
each turn to use either his Black Breath, Claw or Thing 
of Terror abilities.
Savage Assault. When the Lieutenant rolls a natural 
18 or 19, he may, as a bonus action, make a single 
additional melee attack against the same opponent.
Actions
Multiattack. The Lieutenant makes one attack with his 
Black Sword and one with his Claw.
Black Sword of Mordor. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to 
hit, reach 5 ft, one target. Hit: 8 (1d8+4) magical slashing 
damage. The Lieutenant can use his bonus action to add 5 
(1d6+2) necrotic damage.
Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 5 (1d6+2) slashing damage.
Black Breath. (see entry for The Lieutenant of Dol Guldur, 
Unclad and Invisible)
Shadow of Fear. (see entry for The Lieutenant of Dol 
Guldur, Unclad and Invisible)
Thing of Terror. (see entry for The Lieutenant of Dol 
Guldur, Unclad and Invisible)
Reactions
Dwimmerlaik. If a hero strikes the Ringwraith with a 
critical hit, he may use his reaction to invoke this ability. 
The hero must make a DC 16 Strength saving throw. On 
a failure, the hero’s weapon shatters, and the hero receives 
the damage instead of the Ringwraith. Legendary weapons 
might not be destroyed, but are lost as a cold pain shoots 
through the hero’s body and she drops the weapon.
The Shadow of Fear
The Ringwraith can terrorise mortals into doing their dark bidding. When a companion fails their saving throw 
against this ability, the Nazgûl can compel the hero to carry out some service (such as reporting information to the 
Ringwraith) or to perform a secret task. The compulsion lasts a number of weeks equal to the hero’s current Shadow 
score. A spellbound hero is loathe to perform the compelled action and is often nervous, moody or morose. Other 
members of the Company who note the change in their Companion can make a DC 15 Charisma (Intimidation) 
or Wisdom (Insight) check to provoke the hero (those with Dark Knowledge make this check with Advantage). A 
successful check allows the target to make another saving throw against the spell, ending its effects on a success.

--- PAGE 129 ---
129
The Lieutenant of Dol Guldur, 
Unclad and Invisible
Medium Undead
STR 
14 (+2)
DEX 
10 (+0)
CON 
19 (+4)
INT 
10 (+0)
WIS 
11 (+0)
CHA 
18 (+4)
Armour Class 10
Hit Points 136 (16d8+64)
Speed 30 ft
Damage Immunities non-magical bludgeoning, 
piercing and slashing; cold, psychic 
Condition Immunities Blinded, Deafened, Frightened, 
Paralysed, Petrified, Stunned
Skills Intimidation +8, Perception +4
Senses Truesight 30 ft (otherwise blind), passive 
Perception 14
Languages Easterling, Black Speech, Orcish, Westron
Challenge 12 (8,400 XP)
Gathering Shadows. If the Lieutenant of Dol Guldur is 
accompanied by either The Messenger of Mordor or The 
Ghost of the Forest, then the DC for saving throws against 
his abilities are raised by 1. If both accompany him, the 
DC is raised by 2.
Legendary. The Lieutenant can take one Legendary 
action each turn to use either his Black Breath or Thing 
of Terror abilities.
Thing of Shadow. The Ringwraith is Invisible.
Actions
Black Breath. The Ringwraith can use its action to 
target a creature within 10 feet. That creature must 
make a DC 16 Constitution saving throw. On a 
failure, the creature gains 1 Shadow point and becomes 
Unconscious. They may be revived as an action, but are 
Miserable until they take a long rest. On a success, the 
creature gains 1 Shadow point but remains awake. If a 
Ringwraith targets an Unconscious creature then they 
are subject to The Black Shadow (see page 127).
Shadow of Fear. The Ringwraith can direct its terrible 
will upon any Frightened mortal (Dwarf, Hobbit or Man) 
such that the victim becomes an agent for the Enemy. 
The Ringwraith may use its action to force the target to 
make a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw. On a failure, see 
The Shadow of Fear (page 128). 
Thing of Terror. The Ringwraith can use his action to 
cause any number of targets within 60 feet of him to 
make a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw. Those that fail are 
Frightened until the end of the Ringwraith’s next turn.
The Nazgûl of Dol Guldur

--- PAGE 130 ---
Mirkwood Campaign
130
The Ghost of the Forest
The Ghost of the Forest roams Mirkwood Unclad and Invisible, and 
can only be discerned as a rustling in the leaves, a sudden chill in 
the air, and an unreasoning terror that strikes the very soul. The 
rare times he is seen as Dark Undead, he is hooded and cloaked in 
voluminous robes, a raiment similar to the Wise though ebony in 
colour.
The Messenger of Mordor
The chief messenger of Sauron has been given a swift 
black horse and raiment to hide his Dark Undead 
features, so that he may present himself at the gates of 
Men, Elves or Dwarves to carry his Lord’s will.

--- PAGE 131 ---
131
The Ghost of the Forest as Dark Undead
Medium Undead
STR 
17 (+3)
DEX 
20 (+5)
CON 
15 (+2)
INT 
10 (+0)
WIS 
11 (+0)
CHA 
16 (+3)
Armour Class 15
Hit Points 91 (14d8+28)
Speed 30 ft
Damage Resistances non-magical bludgeoning, piercing 
and slashing; cold, psychic 
Condition Immunities Blinded, Deafened, Frightened, 
Paralysed, Petrified, Stunned
Skills Investigation +4, Perception +4
Senses Truesight 30 ft (otherwise blind), passive 
Perception 14
Languages Black Speech, Orcish, Westron
Challenge 8 (3,900 XP)
Deadly Voice. The Ringwraiths scream at their enemies 
with long-drawn wails that rise to a deafeningly high 
piercing note. The Ghost can use his bonus action to make 
a Frightened creature become Stunned until the end of his 
next turn.
Fear of Fire. If a torch or other flame comes within 10 feet of 
him, the Ringwraith suffers Disadvantage on his attack rolls.
Fell Speed. The Ghost may take a bonus action to 
Disengage from one opponent and engage another without 
provoking an opportunity attack. The new opponent must 
be within his movement range.
Gathering Shadows. If the Ghost is accompanied by either 
The Messenger of Mordor or The Lieutenant of Dol Guldur, 
then the DC for saving throws against his abilities are raised 
by 1. If both accompany him, the DC is raised by 2.
Actions
Multiattack. The Ghost makes one attack with his 
longsword and one with his claw.
Longsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 7 (1d8+3) slashing damage or 8 (1d10+3) 
slashing damage if wielded with both hands.
Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 6 (1d6+3) slashing damage.
Black Breath. (see entry for The Ghost of the Forest, 
Unclad and Invisible)
Shadow of Fear. (see entry for The Ghost of the Forest, 
Unclad and Invisible)
Thing of Terror. (see entry for The Ghost of the Forest, 
Unclad and Invisible)
Reactions
Dwimmerlaik. If a hero strikes the Ringwraith with a 
critical hit, he may use his reaction to invoke this ability. 
The hero must make a DC 14 Strength saving throw. On 
a failure, the hero’s weapon shatters, and the hero receives 
the damage instead of the Ringwraith. Legendary weapons 
might not be destroyed, but are lost as a cold pain shoots 
through the hero’s body and she drops the weapon.
The Ghost of the Forest, Unclad 
and Invisible
Medium Undead
STR 
17 (+3)
DEX 
20 (+5)
CON 
15 (+2)
INT 
10 (+0)
WIS 
11 (+0)
CHA 
16 (+3)
Armour Class 15
Hit Points 91 (14d8+28)
Speed 30 ft
Damage Immunities non-magical bludgeoning, piercing 
and slashing; cold, psychic 
Condition Immunities Blinded, Deafened, Frightened, 
Paralysed, Petrified, Stunned
Skills Investigation +4, Perception +4
Senses Truesight 30 ft (otherwise blind), passive Perception 14
Languages Black Speech, Orcish, Westron
Challenge 8 (3,900 XP)
Gathering Shadows. If the Ghost is accompanied by either 
The Messenger of Mordor or The Lieutenant of Dol Guldur, 
then the DC for saving throws against his abilities are raised
by 1. If both accompany him, the DC is raised by 2.
Thing of Shadow. The Ringwraith is Invisible.
Actions
Black Breath. The Ringwraith can use its action to target 
a creature within 10 feet. That creature must make a DC 14 
Constitution saving throw. On a failure, the creature gains 1 
Shadow point and becomes Unconscious. They may be revived 
as an action, but are Miserable until they take a long rest. On a 
success, the creature gains 1 Shadow point but remains awake. 
If a ringwraith targets an Unconscious creature then they are 
subject to The Black Shadow (see page 127).
Shadow of Fear. The Ghost can direct its terrible will upon any 
Frightened mortal (Dwarf, Hobbit or Man) such that the victim 
becomes an agent for the Enemy. The Ringwraith may use its 
action to force the target to make a DC 14 Wisdom saving 
throw. On a failure, see The Shadow of Fear (page 128). 
Thing of Terror (1/day). The Ringwraith can use his action 
to cause any number of targets within 60 feet of him to make 
a DC 14 Wisdom saving throw. Those that fail are Frightened 
until the end of the Ringwraith’s next turn.
The Nazgûl of Dol Guldur

--- PAGE 132 ---
Mirkwood Campaign
132
The Messenger of Mordor as 
Dark Undead
Medium Undead
STR 
13 (+1)
DEX 
12 (+1)
CON 
16 (+3)
INT 
10 (+0)
WIS 
12 (+0)
CHA 
17 (+3)
Armour Class 15 (Scale hauberk)
Hit Points 105 (14d8+42)
Speed 30 ft
Damage Resistances non-magical bludgeoning, piercing 
and slashing; cold, psychic 
Condition Immunities Blinded, Deafened, Frightened, 
Paralysed, Petrified, Stunned
Skills Intimidation +6, Persuasion +6, Riddle +3, Traditions +3
Senses Truesight 30 ft (otherwise blind), passive Perception 11
Languages Adûnaic, Sindarin, Black Speech, Orcish, Westron
Challenge 8 (3,900 XP)
Deadly Voice. The Ringwraiths scream at their enemies 
with long-drawn wails that rise to a deafeningly high 
piercing note. The Messenger can use his bonus action to 
make a Frightened creature become Stunned until the end 
of this next turn.
Fear of Fire. If a torch or other flame comes within 10 feet of 
him, the Messenger suffers Disadvantage on his attack rolls.
Gathering Shadows. If the Messenger is accompanied by 
either The Ghost of the Forest or The Lieutenant of Dol Guldur, 
then the DC for saving throws against his abilities are raised 
by 1. If both accompany him, the DC is raised by 2.
Actions
Longsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 5 (1d8+1) slashing damage or 6 (1d10+1) 
slashing damage if wielded with both hands.
Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 4 (1d6+1) slashing damage.
Bewilder. The Messenger can briefly exert his will to 
dominate others. All creatures within 30 feet of the 
Messenger must make a DC 14 Wisdom saving throw or 
be Stunned for 1d4+1 rounds. As long as the effect lasts, 
the Messenger may then make a melee attack against a 
Stunned creature as a bonus action. The Messenger can 
only use this ability once per long rest.
Black Breath. (see entry for The Messenger of Mordor, 
Unclad and Invisible)
Shadow of Fear. (see entry for The Messenger of Mordor, 
Unclad and Invisible)
Thing of Terror. (see entry for The Messenger of Mordor, 
Unclad and Invisible)
Reactions
Dwimmerlaik. If a hero strikes the Ringwraith with a 
critical hit, he may use his reaction to invoke this ability. 
The hero must make a DC 14 Strength saving throw. On 
a failure, the hero’s weapon shatters, and the hero receives 
the damage instead of the Ringwraith. Legendary weapons 
might not be destroyed, but are lost as a cold pain shoots 
through the hero’s body and she drops the weapon.
The Messenger of Mordor, 
Unclad and Invisible
Medium Undead
STR 
13 (+1)
DEX 
12 (+1)
CON 
16 (+3)
INT 
10 (+0)
WIS 
12 (+1)
CHA 
17 (+3)
Armour Class 11
Hit Points 105 (14d8+42)
Speed 30 ft
Damage Immunities non-magical bludgeoning, piercing 
and slashing; cold, psychic
Condition Immunities Blinded, Deafened, Frightened, 
Paralysed, Petrified, Stunned
Skills Intimidation +5, Persuasion +5, Riddle +3, Traditions +3
Senses Truesight 30 ft (otherwise blind), passive Perception 11
Languages Adûnaic, Sindarin, Black Speech, Orcish, Westron
Challenge 8 (3,900 XP)
Gathering Shadows. If the Messenger is accompanied by 
either The Ghost of the Forest or The Lieutenant of Dol Guldur, 
then the DC for saving throws against his abilities are raised 
by 1. If both accompany him, the DC is raised by 2.
Thing of Shadow. The Ringwraith is Invisible.
Actions
Black Breath. The Ringwraith can use its action to target 
a creature within 10 feet. That creature must make a DC 14 
Constitution saving throw. On a failure, the creature gains 1 
Shadow point and becomes Unconscious (they may be revived 
by an action, but are Miserable until they take a long rest). 
On a success, the creature gains 1 Shadow point but remains 
awake. If a Ringwraith targets an Unconscious creature then 
they are subject to The Black Shadow (see page 127).
Shadow of Fear. The Ringwraith can direct its terrible 
will upon any Frightened mortal (Dwarf, Hobbit or Man) 
such that the victim becomes an agent for the Enemy. The 
Ringwraith may use its action to force the target to make a DC 
14 Wisdom saving throw. On a failure, see The Shadow of 
Fear (page 128). 
Thing of Terror. The Ringwraith can use his action to cause 
any number of targets within 60 feet of him to make a DC 14 
Wisdom saving throw. Those that fail are Frightened until the 
end of the Ringwraith’s next turn.

--- PAGE 133 ---
133
Shadows in 
- the Forest -
The sun was shining brilliantly, and it was a 
long while before he could bear it. When he 
could, he saw all round him a sea of dark 
green, ruffled here and  there by the breeze; 
and there were everywhere hundreds of 
butterflies.
The gloom of Mirkwood hides not only great evil, but 
also sometimes great beauty. The forest is alive; eerie 
and strange… it seems to know its visitors and can both 
torment and delight them. The secret fears and cares that 
travellers always carry with them can manifest within the 
forest. The following Journey Event tables offer optional 
rules that integrate the basic events with the various 
backgrounds of the heroes. Not every Journey Event 
should feature a companion’s backstory, but such scenes 
can have a powerful impact if judiciously applied. While 
this table uses the Greatest Forest as its setting, there are 
many other places in Middle-earth that warrant such an 
approach.
The following tables provide several examples customised 
for specific backgrounds. Loremasters can focus on the 
active hero if a journey role is highlighted, or nominate 
another hero, allowing others to have the spotlight. 
The selected hero receives Inspiration for invoking their 
background and then the Loremaster presents a situation 
that draws on the rules presented here. Note that many of 
these examples can be cast into other backgrounds with 
only small changes.
A Chance Encounter
The Company meets a fellow traveller or group of travellers. 
The Scout must make a Dexterity (Stealth) check to avoid 
them, or any hero may make a Charisma (Persuasion) check 
to interact with them. If the interaction is successful, the first 
roll of the next event is made with Advantage. Failure results 
in Disadvantage.
Changeling
The fellow travellers might be associated with the Woodland 
Realm in some way and are perhaps known to you from 
your time there. Or they might hail from the Dalelands and 
something about one of them… a voice or manner of movement 
calls to you with the echoes of your earliest memories. You may 
spend Inspiration to use Lore (instead of Perception) if you 
wish to spend time with the travellers considering where and 
when you may have seen them before.
Emissary of your People
The traveller bears the same sigil that you do. Do they truly 
serve the same lord? Or did they somehow acquire the symbol 
by accident or mischief? Perhaps you should speak to them 
privately, away from the rest of the Company… You may spend 
Inspiration to use Traditions in place of Perception to ask 
questions of the travellers that only those of your homeland 
could answer correctly.
Loyal Servant
The other travellers are agents or servants of one of your 
master’s rivals. It is possible that they may recognise you (or 
your master, if present)… will they simply rebuke you? Attack 
you? Perhaps they will try to recruit you or interrogate you on 
behalf of their master. You may use Intelligence (Riddle) in 
place of the Persuasion check if you choose to have words 
with the travellers.
World Weary
The traveller is someone known to you long ago. They will 
instantly know you, but what do they think of you? Did you 
leave them on good terms? Or is this the reigniting of an 
ancient rivalry? Did you promise to return, only to find that 
your feet always carried you to other places? If things go ill with 
your old friend, you may elect to spend Inspiration and use 
Deception in order to spin some comfortable story. Whether 
it has a kernel of truth or is composed of only lies is up to you 
to decide. Remember that you gain 2 Shadow points if you lie.
Journey Event Table Entry 1 (or less)
Shadows in the Forest

--- PAGE 134 ---
Mirkwood Campaign
134
Of Herbs and Stewed Rabbit
The Hunter has an opportunity to gather supplies. They must 
make a Wisdom (Survival) check. You have Advantage if the 
Company won Feasts Fit for the Kings of Ancient Times, or 
Disadvantage if they face Meagre Supplies and Poor Meals. If 
successful, you either gather food (restore a level of Exhaustion 
or 1 Hit Die to each hero) or collect herbs (Loremaster’s choice 
of herbs found). If you fail then the Arrival roll gains a -1 
penalty.
Doomed to Die
The death of your quarry at the end of your weapon or after 
being ripped from the warm earth by your own hands has 
made you melancholy and reminded you that one day it will 
be your fate to die, perhaps in a similar way. You may choose 
to automatically succeed at the required Survival check by 
spending Inspiration and gaining 1 Shadow point.
The Harrowed
Something in the hunt has reminded you of your ever-present 
dreams. It seems that your fate is inescapable and that every 
moment of your life is but a tally mark in someone else’s 
ledger. Will you allow despair to grip you or will you continue 
to strive uselessly against what must happen? You may choose 
to automatically succeed at the required Survival check by 
spending Inspiration and gaining 1 Shadow point.
Lure of the Road 
Whilst seeking for food, you chanced to spy some new path 
amidst the trees or other point of interest in the distance. If you 
were by yourself, you could pursue this new avenue without 
hesitation but instead you are bound to the Company and 
their path leads a different way... You can choose to return 
empty-handed from the hunt, or you can gain Advantage on 
the Survival check by turning aside from the new trail and 
focusing on your task. If you do so, gain 1 point of Shadow.
Reluctant Adventurer
You never wanted to go out into the Wild, but one has to admit 
that the sight of a crackling fire and the smell of a freshly caught 
meal cooking above it whilst your friends huddle round is 
worth some discomfort. You can spend Inspiration in order to 
use Nature or Perception in place of the Survival check.
Journey Event Table Entry 2
An Obstacle
Something blocks the path ahead. The Guide must make a 
Wisdom (Survival) check and each other companion must 
make either Wisdom (Survival) or Strength (Athletics). If the 
Company has horses or ponies, one hero must make a Wisdom 
(Animal Handling) check. All checks have Advantage if they 
are on Paths both Swift and True, or Disadvantage if they face 
The Wearisome Toil of Many Leagues. If all are successful, the 
Arrival roll gains +1. If half or more are successful, there is no 
penalty.  If more than half failed then each hero gains a level of 
Exhaustion. If all fail add a -1 penalty to the Arrival roll to the 
Exhaustion.
Driven from Home
Though you are far from home, there is something familiar 
about this challenge. Perhaps it reminds you of your youth or you 
possess knowledge that will allow you to bypass the obstacle. 
You may choose to automatically succeed at the required check 
by spending Inspiration and gaining 1 Shadow point.
Hunted by the Shadow
There is more here than it first appears. A dread foreboding 
comes over you; you are certain that the Enemy has caused 
this delay or that the Mirkwood itself is setting a trap for you.
If you pass your check, then you have somehow avoided the 
greater danger but it has darkened your heart… make a DC 15 
Wisdom saving throw or gain 1 Shadow point. If you failed, 
then some greater danger approaches… (The Loremaster may 
wish to roll again on the Journey Events table or have an 
appropriate enemy force be spotted in the distance.)
The Magician
Perhaps this obstacle is the ruined reminder of a secretive 
people lost to history or it is of natural origin but of unusual 
properties all the same. In any case, you know some hidden 
thing about the challenge and might share it with the Company.
You can spend Inspiration in order to use History, Lore or 
Riddle instead of the other skills.
Seeker of the Lost
Whatever blocks the Company’s way is not just a simple 
obstacle, but a clue to whatever you seek. If only you had time 
to study what you have just found, it might aid you on your 
quest... If the Company does not agree to camp here, then you 
gain 1 point of Shadow. If they do, you have Advantage on your 
next Intelligence check.
Journey Event Table Entry 3

--- PAGE 135 ---
135
In Need of Help
The Company meets someone who needs aid. If they choose 
not to assist each hero must make a Wisdom saving throw 
to avoid 1 Shadow Point. If they do help, they make three 
checks, usually from Animal Handling, Insight, Medicine, 
Nature, Persuasion, Survival or Traditions. If all checks 
are successful then all heroes gain Inspiration and +1 to the 
Arrival Roll. If two checks are successful then one hero gains 
Inspiration and +1 to the Arrival Roll. If one check is successful 
then +1 to Arrival Roll. If all rolls fail then a -1 modifier is 
applied to the Arrival Roll.
Emissary of your People
Whomever needs help is from your homeland, or is closely 
allied to your people. You will feel an obligation to help them 
and become distraught if you cannot. If the Company presses 
on, you automatically fail your Wisdom saving throw. If you 
try to assist and fail, you gain 1 Shadow point in addition to 
any other consequences. 
The Harrowed
You have seen this situation before, in your most terrible 
dreams. You are certain that this situation is beyond aid and 
these folk are doomed despite your best efforts. Regardless of 
whether or not the Company elects to aid the unfortunates, 
you automatically gain a Shadow point (meaning you 
automatically fail the Wisdom saving throw if you are called 
to make it).
Loyal Servant 
These folks know your master, are on the road to see her, or will 
somehow convey word of your good deeds to your master. If 
your master is with you, they will report on your deeds to your 
master before the Company takes its leave. If the Company 
elects to help the group then you may spend Inspiration to 
grant Advantage on all three of the required checks.
Oathsworn
Some aspect of these people’s plight invokes your Oath. You 
find it nearly impossible to refuse to aid them, and will take 
it hard if you do not personally succeed at your efforts. If the 
Company avoids responsibility and you fail the Wisdom 
saving throw, you gain 2 Shadow points. If the Company 
assists and you fail your check (or do not make one) then you 
gain 1 Shadow point.
Journey Event Table Entry 4
Agents of the Enemy
The Company approaches a hostile force. The Look-out must 
make a Wisdom (Perception) check to spot the enemy early. 
The Look-out has Advantage if the Company is Hidden from 
the Shadow or Disadvantage if they face The Keen Eyes of the 
Enemy. These modifiers apply to any rolls made outside of 
combat. If successful, they may either sneak away or ambush 
them (in which case the enemy is Surprised). If failed, the enemy 
sets an ambush and the Player-heroes are Surprised.
Doomed to Die
This is it! You have long believed that you would fall in combat, 
taking many of the enemy before you yourself succumbed to 
their wicked blades. Forth into battle and glory! (And, if you 
survive, perhaps you were wrong today. But there might come 
a day when your death is on the battlefield.) If the enemy sets 
an ambush, then you may spend Inspiration to avoid being 
Surprised yourself.
Fallen Scion
The enemies that approach have something to do with your 
denied heritage. Perhaps they have been recruited by those 
who wish for your line to die with you and the sooner the better. 
Or they might even be part of the force that is responsible 
for your current circumstances. If you elect to flee from a 
chance to earn revenge against those who wronged you, you 
automatically gain 1 Shadow point.
Hunted by the Shadow
The enemy force is somehow connected to you… they are either 
looking for you directly or you have had interactions with one or 
more of their members in the past. You may elect to recall those 
grim memories to aid you in your current struggle. If you spend 
Inspiration and take 1 Shadow point then you have Advantage 
on all attribute checks, attack rolls and saving throws in the 
first round of combat.
The Magician
The group ahead may be adversaries, but it’s possible that 
they are not true servants of the Enemy. They have something 
that you want, or something that would benefit the whole 
Company.If you stand firm, neither fleeing nor making ready 
to ambush your foes, you may spend Inspiration to make a 
DC 20 Charisma (Persuasion) check as they approach. On a 
success, you have temporarily forestalled hostilities and might 
be able to make an amicable trade with the foes.
Journey Event Table Entry 5
Shadows in the Forest

--- PAGE 136 ---
Mirkwood Campaign
136
The Wonders of Middle-earth
The Company is presented with a spectacular sight. Each 
hero must make either a Wisdom check or an Intelligence 
(Investigation) check. These checks are made with Advantage 
in Fair Weather and Disadvantage under Foul Weather. If 
successful, the hero recovers one level of Exhaustion or gains 
one if they fail. If all heroes succeed, gain a +1 to the Arrival 
Roll or if all fail then the Arrival Roll gains a -1 penalty.
Driven from Home
There is some aspect of the scenery that reminds you of home 
and brings forth happy memories. You study the wonder 
for some time before continuing on your journey. If you are 
proficient in Perception, you may spend Inspiration to allow 
the other heroes to add your Proficiency Bonus to their rolls. 
As long as one of the Company succeeds at the check, you gain 
Inspiration.
Lure of the Road
Such vistas are the reason why you find it difficult to remain 
in one place. There is always something new… profound and 
moving experiences might be around any bend of the Road and 
you intend to show them to your friends! If you are proficient in 
Survival, you may spend Inspiration to allow the other heroes 
to add your Proficiency Bonus to their rolls. As long as one of 
the Company succeeds at the check, you gain Inspiration.
Reluctant Adventurer
Whatever beautiful thing that is in front of you can not be seen 
from your front door. Thus travelling cannot be all bad, if it 
allows you to see such things. But then again, amazing scenery 
might hide difficult going... You can spend Inspiration and 
choose to fail your check in order to give each other member of 
the Company Inspiration.
World Weary
The vista before you is simply a reminder of all that you are 
leaving behind and how much you have lost in the years that 
are now but a memory. And memories fade over time… You 
may spend Inspiration to succeed at your check, as if you rolled 
exactly what was needed for a success. You gain 1 Shadow 
point as well.
Journey Event Table Entry 6
A Hunt
The Hunter has a particularly excellent chance to catch a good 
meal. The Hunter must make a Wisdom (Survival) check. 
These checks are made with Advantage with Feasts Fit for the 
Kings of Ancient Times, and Disadvantage if the Company has 
Meagre Supplies and Poor Meals. If successful by 5 or more, 
all heroes recover a level of Exhaustion and the Company 
gains +1 to the Arrival Roll. Other successes recover a level of 
Exhaustion only. If the check fails then the Company gains a 
level of Exhaustion. If the Hunter fails by 5 or more add a -1 
penalty to the Arrival Roll.
Doomed to Die
There is a chance that your doom does not lie on a battlefield, 
but alone in the wild as you seek a creature and perhaps become 
prey to some other hunter yourself. There is always danger in the 
Wild. If you spend Inspiration and take on a level of Exhaustion 
you can automatically succeed at your check, as if you rolled 
exactly what you needed to succeed.
Oathsworn
Some aspect or circumstance related to the hunt is related 
to your Oath. It might be a chance to take a step towards 
fulfilling your oath, but you will have to set aside the needs 
of the Company in order to do so. You may choose to take 
Disadvantage on your Survival check. If you do, any success is 
counted as if you succeeded by 5 or more.
Seeker of the Lost
While you are on the hunt, you happen upon some token related 
to what you seek. It is not the thing itself, but some signifier that 
new knowledge could be gained about what you seek, if you 
but spent time in study. Make a Intelligence (Investigation) 
check. If you fail, you spend too much time on the clue and 
automatically fail the Survival check as well (as if you had 
rolled just below what you needed to succeed).
World Weary
The quarry you pursue is known to you… you’ve hunted its 
kind (or perhaps even it itself) before. Thus, the hunt is easy 
for you and the only trouble is the memories that it brings 
back... If you spend Inspiration, you automatically succeed at 
the check as if you had rolled exactly you needed. You also 
gain 1 Shadow point.
Journey Event Table Entry 7

--- PAGE 137 ---
137
A Fine Spot for a Camp
The Scout has spotted a location that make make an excellent 
campsite. Make an Intelligence (Investigation) check. If 
the check succeeds by 5 or more then the Company recovers 
a level of Exhaustion and gains +1 to the Arrival Roll. On a 
basic success the Company recovers a level of Exhaustion. On 
a failure the Company gains a level of Exhaustion. On a failure 
of 5 or more the Company is in danger and might face enemies. 
They also gain Exhaustion and a -1 penalty to the Arrival Roll. 
Changeling
You have been here before, or at least the songs of your Elven 
foster-parents were so vivid that it seems like you were here. This 
place is familiar to you in a way that you cannot explain. Before 
making your Investigation check, you can spend Inspiration. 
If you do so, you automatically succeed at the check, as if you 
rolled exactly what was needed to pass.
The Harrowed
Somehow the campsite you selected is especially relevant 
to your dreams. You toss and turn all night, caught in new 
experiences that, upon awaking, you struggle to convey to 
your companions. You may choose to take Disadvantage on 
your Investigation check. If you do, any success is counted 
as if you succeeded by 5 or more.
Hunted by the Shadow 
This campsite is known to your pursuers, and they might 
return soon. Or, perhaps, they left some token behind and 
you might learn something from careful consideration of 
the item. You may choose to make the Investigation check 
with Disadvantage. If you do so, any success counts as if you 
succeeded by 5 or more.
Loyal Servant
If your master is with you, then not only do you need to scout 
for a campsite, but you will have many duties once it is located 
to make it suitable. Even if your master is elsewhere, you have 
tasks to complete for them… note-taking and preparations 
for your eventual reunion. You may spend Inspiration and 
gain a level of Exhaustion. You are then considered to have 
succeeded at locating a campsite, as if you had rolled exactly 
what you needed for a basic success.
Journey Event Table Entry 8
A Lingering Memory of Times Long Past
The Company discovers a relic of past ages. Each companion 
must make a Wisdom check. If successful, the hero gains 
Inspiration. If you succeed by 5 or more, you may remove a 
level of Exhaustion. If the hero fails, you must make a DC 15 
Wisdom saving throw or gain 2 points of Shadow. If you fail 
the initial check by 5 or more, you must make the saving throw 
and gain a level of Exhaustion. If at least half the Company 
succeed at the check, add +1 to the Arrival Roll. Otherwise 
apply a -1 modifier instead. 
Doomed to Die
The ancient artefact is a signifier of ancient heroes who stood 
against darkness, knowing that with their own doom the safety 
of their friends and families could be bought. You can spend 
Inspiration to use Intelligence (History or Lore) in place of the 
Wisdom check, applied the effects listed above on a success or 
failure.
The Magician
So much wisdom of the ages has been lost in the uncounted 
years since the world was made. This discovery is the smallest 
echo of that knowledge, but it is still worth examining. You may 
choose to voluntarily fail the Wisdom check (as if you had 
rolled just below what was needed). You automatically gain 1 
point of Shadow (you do not need to make a saving throw) but 
every other member of the Company gains Advantage on their 
checks.
Oathsworn
Whatever you have found is a reminder of the power inherent 
in bonded words — perhaps these are the ruins of a once 
prosperous people who betrayed their oath and fell, or it 
is a personal effect of some hero of ancient days who gave 
everything to fulfill her promise. You may spend Inspiration to 
succeed at the Wisdom check, as if you rolled exactly what was 
needed for a basic success. You gain 1 Shadow point as well.
Seeker of the Lost
You have found something that no one would have possibly 
imagined could have been recovered — it’s inconceivable that 
the relic still exists! But it’s not at all what you are looking for. 
Will this cause you to despair or will it make you redouble 
your efforts? You may choose to make the Wisdom check at 
Disadvantage. Any success counts as if you had succeeded by 
5 or more on the check.
Journey Event Table Entry 9
Shadows in the Forest

--- PAGE 138 ---
Mirkwood Campaign
138
A Place Touched by Shadow
The essence of something dark and terrible lingers here. The 
Scout must make an Intelligence (Investigation) check to 
avoid the area. If successful, the Company gains a +1 to their 
Arrival Roll. If the Scout succeeds by 5 or more, each hero gains 
Inspiration and may remove 1 temporary Shadow point. If the 
Scout fails, each hero must make a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw 
against Corruption or gain 1 point of Shadow. If the Scout fails 
by 5 or more, some dark think still lurks here, ancient and evil… 
Driven from Home
This place was once the home of somebody or something. 
Perhaps the Shadow came here, bringing death and 
destruction. Or perhaps the Company are the trespassers and 
if they would leave the poor thing that slumbers here along then 
they would not stir up any more trouble…  You can choose to 
spend Inspiration and gain 1 Shadow point to succeed on the 
Investigation check, as if you rolled exactly what you needed.
Fallen Scion
There is something here, some item or piece of information that 
would help you restore your lost position. But standing here at 
the edge won’t allow you to find it; you must venture further 
into this dread place… You may choose to voluntarily fail the 
Investigation check (as if you had rolled just below what was 
needed). You automatically gain 1 point of Shadow (you do not 
need to make a saving throw) but each other member of the 
Company gains Advantage on their saving throws.
The Harrowed
This is a strange place. Very strange. And then it hits you… it is 
a place that you have never seen in your dreams. Your dreams 
are your constant companion, and they are full of doom and 
despair. Why was a dread place such as this absent from them?
You may choose to make the Investigation check at 
Disadvantage. Any success counts as if you had succeeded by 5 
or more on the check.
Lure of the Road
You have been here before, in your journeys of long ago. You 
knew this place before it fell to the Enemy, before it was touched 
by the Shadow. Your memories of the past haunt you as you 
stare at the destruction… You may choose to spend Inspiration 
and gain 1 point of Shadow. If you do so, you succeed at the 
Investigation check, as if you rolled exactly what was needed.
Journey Event Table Entry 10
The Enemy is Abroad
Evil Men, Orcs, Goblins or other servants of the Enemy are 
moving through the area. If the Company is subject to The 
Keen Eyes of the Enemy, the confrontation is unavoidable, if 
the Look-out makes a Wisdom (Perception) check, the enemy 
is Surprised on the first round of combat. If the Company is 
Hidden from the Shadow, the Look-out can use Perception 
or Stealth to avoid the enemy. If the check fails, the enemy is 
still Surprised on the first round of combat. If neither applies, 
then each member of the Company must make a Dexterity 
(Stealth) check. If the Company has horses or ponies then one 
companion must make a Wisdom (Animal Handling) check 
as well. If any of these rolls fails, they have been spotted and 
battle is engaged with no advantage to either side.
Emissary
The enemies that you face might be willing to let you pass, if you 
can convince them that they have more to gain from not fighting 
the Company. You may elect to allow the foes to approach, 
without any attempt to sneak away or ambush them. You gain 
1 Shadow point. Before initiative is rolled, you may make a 
Intimidation or Persuasion check with Disadvantage. If you 
succeed, the enemy does not attack you and you gain another 
point of Shadow. If you fail the check, combat begins and the 
heroes are Surprised in the first round.
Hunted by the Shadow
Are these foes who search for you by name? Or is just ill-fortune 
that brings them here? If you elect that the enemy is looking 
for you, spend Inspiration: one of the enemy gains the Hatred 
special ability (see page 117 of the Loremaster’s Guide), with 
you as the target. You have Advantage on all attribute checks, 
attack rolls and saving throws in the first round.
The Magician
Not every concoction calls for the eye of a newt or frog’s toes. 
Some call for the sting of an Attercop, the tongue of an Ancient 
Basilisk or dried Gallows-weed. Fighting the enemy may be 
profitable for you. You may choose to have the company make 
their Dexterity (Stealth) checks with Advantage, in order to set 
an ambush. If successful, the enemy will be Surprised on the 
first round of combat. You gain 1 Shadow point for endangering 
your friends.
Oathsworn
The enemy has something to do with your oath. Perhaps you 
must avoid them in order to fulfill your oath, or perhaps you 
must fight them. You gain 1 Shadow point and either gain 
Advantage on all ability checks made until the enemy is avoided 
(or combat begins) or you may elect to automatically fail your 
checks instead and force a confrontation.
Journey Event Table Entry 11

--- PAGE 139 ---
139
Many Meetings? Fly you Fools!
The company has encountered a traveller upon the road, but 
all may not be as it at first appears. If the Company began the 
journey under Dark Signs and Evil Portents, it is a servant of 
the Enemy (perhaps a Ringwraith, a Child of Shelob or other 
major foes). If they started From Auspicious Beginnings then 
it is one of the great powers for good (a Wizard, Thranduil, 
Beorn or another of the Great and Good). Otherwise, the 
Look-out must make a Wisdom (Perception) check. If the 
hero succeeds by 5 or more, he recognises the traveller for 
someone of great standing and may immediately remove 1 
Shadow point, gain +1 to their Arrival Roll and may seek an 
Audience with the traveller. On a basic success, the traveller’s 
identity is shielded from them and the meeting should use 
the rules for A Chance Encounter. Insight checks may reveal 
their true identity. If the check fails, each hero must make a 
DC 15 Wisdom saving throw against Corruption or gain 2 
Shadow points. They must then hide from the enemy (using 
the rules in The Enemy is Abroad) but also gain a level of 
Exhaustion and -1 penalty to their Arrival Roll. If the Look-out 
fails by 5 or more then the Company is automatically spotted 
and they must fleet. Each hero gains 2 Shadow points, a level 
of Exhaustion and a -1 to the Arrival Roll.
Changeling
Why do they pretend not to know me? You see through the 
guise of the traveller and know them for who they really are, for 
they are from your previous life. But they do not acknowledge 
you at all, and pretend not to know you… If you serve as Look-
out, you may spend Inspiration to automatically succeed on 
your Perception check, as if you had rolled exactly what was 
needed. But the visitor’s rejection of you weighs heavily and 
you gain a point of Shadow.
Fallen Scion
Whoever you face is someone that has great power over your 
lost destiny. For example, the long memory of Legolas might 
aid in proving your claim or the Messenger of Mordor may 
bear your family’s ancient signet ring as a trophy of a past 
victory. If you pass the Perception check, you may spend 
Inspiration in order to see the traveller for who they truly are. 
Or, if you failed the check, you may gain 1 Shadow point and 
force a confrontation with the enemy.
Lure of the Road
The Road knows your name. And it is calling to you — there is no 
point in idle chatter with strangers! You may spend Inspiration 
in order to succeed on your Perception check, as if you had 
rolled exactly what was needed. But if the Company spends 
time with the travellers trying to determine their true identity, 
you gain a point of Shadow as you inwardly fume about the 
delay.
Reluctant Adventurer
Ever since you left home, you have seen amazing sights and 
met strange folk — no one at home would believe your stories! 
As the travellers approach, you’re lost in your daydreams… 
You may choose to take Disadvantage on your Perception 
check. If you do, any success is counted as if you succeeded 
by 5 or more. 
Journey Event Table Entry 12 (or more)
Shadows in the Forest

--- PAGE 140 ---
Mirkwood Campaign
140
- index -
A
Acquiring a Suitable Gem	
54
Addressing the Spiders	
55
Adventuring Phase	
5
Affairs of Court	
88
After the Battle	
33
After the Journey	
39
Aftermath	
61, 81, 96, 124
(The) Ailing King	
89
All is Lost	
82
Amaleoda	
15
(The) Ambush	
85
(An) Ancient Shadow Reborn	
109
(The) Assassin	
46
Atarmud & the Ghost	
73
Athala’s Tale	
63
Attending the Parliament	
55
(An) Audience with a Vampire	
110
B
(New) Background: Changeling	
101
	
Feature: Child of the Woodland 
	
Realm	
101
	
Suggested Characteristics	
101
Battle at the Skybridge Tree	
80
Besieging the Castle	
113
(A) Bitter Hour	
89
(The) Black Shadow	
127
(Return to the) Black Tarn	
59
(To the) Black Tarn	
20
(From the) Black Tarn to the
Tyrant’s Hill	
21
Blood Dripping	
95
Blood Ties	
98
Bofri, son of Bofur	
15
(The) Bow of Sudden Fury	
18
Breaking the Spell	
37, 54
Bright Days, Dark Words	
44
Burin the Dwarf Merchant	
92
Burin Vanishes	
94
C
(Using the) Campaign	
6
(The) Campaign Goal	
6
(The) Campaign Outline	
4
Castle Orlmond	
112
Ceawin Speaks	
15
Ceawin the Generous	
15
Chance Meetings	
15
Chasing the Thieves	
79
(The) Chest of the Lamp	
85
Choking Weeds and Yelling Goblins	
48
(The) Coming of the Beast	
32
(The) Coming of the Nazgûl	
80
Companions as Envoys	
44
(The) Council at Lake-town	
44
Courtly Deliberations	
56
Crossing the Border	
116
Crossing the Mountains	
124
Crossing the Swamps	
36
(A) Cup of Poison	
88
(The) Curse of the Werewolf	
106
Customising the Adventures	
7
D
(The) Dark Schemes of Valdis	
100
Dark Undead or Unclad and Invisible	 127
(The) Darkening of Mirkwood: 2975-2977	119
Deal with the Pack	
105
Dealing with Dagmar	
12
Death at Day’s Ending	
122
(The) Death of the Beast	
105
(The) Debate	
16
(The) Decisions of the War-leader	
66
Dinner in the Hall	
93
(Into) Dol Guldur	
22
(The Battle of) Dol Guldur	
123
E
(The) Election of the Group Leader	
65
Elfsigil’s Story	
99
(The) Elves Arrive	
119
Escape!	
86
Escaping the Hall	
95
Events	
4
Experience Awards	
8
Exploring the High Keep	
24
Exploring the Woods	
37
F
(The) Far End of the Forest	
38
(New) Fellowship Phase Undertakings:
	
Confer with Saruman	
53
	
Drumming Up Support	
42
	
Patrol the Wild	
61
	
Search for Answers	
33
	
Tend to Holding	
10
(At the) Fenbridge	
84
Fenbridge Castle	
123
(To) Fenbridge Castle	
84
(The) Festival	
79
(The) First Choice	
120
Flor’s Secret	
69
Foes Near at Hand	
39
(Fighting the) Forest Dragon	
103
(Hunting the) Forest Dragon	
103
(The) Forest Dragon	
102
Fridwald the Runner	
14
(The) Funeral	
64
G
(The Hunt for) Gandalf	
75
Gathering an Army	
77
Gathering Allies	
113
Gathering Clouds	
43
(The) Gathering Gloom: 2961-2966 	
67
(The Story of) Geirbald	
73
Geirbald’s Dying Wish	
74
(Old) Geleswinta	
92
Get the Lamp	
105
Ghosts of the East Bight	
27
The Ghost of the Forest as Dark Undead	 131
The Ghost of the Forest, Unclad and 
Invisible	
131
(A) Gift for the Dead	
26
(The) Girdle of the Tyulqin	
58
Girion	
114
(Reclaiming the) Greydelve	
77
Grimfried	
92
Grimfried’s Lust	
94
(The) Guardian	
116
Gwina	
93
H
Halbrech’s Fate	
89
(The) Hall of the Lamp	
60
(The) Hand of Mogdred	
12
Hartfast, of the House of Mountain Hall	 14
(The) Haunted Hall	
92
(Into the) Heart of Mirkwood	
54
(The) Heart of the Lair	
58
(The) Herb	
95
(The) Hoard	
103
(Gaining a) Holding	
9
(Running a) Holding	
10
Holding Upkeep	
10
Holdings	
6
(Rules for) Holdings	
9
Honeyed Words	
112
(The) Host and The Hall	
93
Hunald, Spell bound Assassin	
47
Hungry Spiders	
41
(The) Hunter Comes	
117
Hunting the White Deer	
18
I
(The) Ill-favoured Man	
93
(The) Ill-favoured Man Arrives	
94
(The) Ill-favoured Man Dies	
94
Influencing Envoys	
45
Ingel, Berana and Radagasa	
92
Ingomer, of the House of Woodland Hall	14
Into the Chasm	
108

--- PAGE 141 ---
141
Into the Lair	
57
(An) Invisible Hand	
50
J
(The) Journey	
124
Journey Events for the Fens of 
Dol Guldur	
22
Journey Event Table	
125
Journey Event Table Entry 1 (or less)	
133
Journey Event Table Entry 2	
134
Journey Event Table Entry 3	
134
Journey Event Table Entry 4	
135
Journey Event Table Entry 5	
135
Journey Event Table Entry 6	
136
Journey Event Table Entry 7	
136
Journey Event Table Entry 8	
137
Journey Event Table Entry 9	
137
Journey Event Table Entry 10	
138
Journey Event Table Entry 11	
138
Journey Event Table Entry 12 (or more)	139
Judgement of the Folk-moot	
16
K
Killing a Hart in Mirkwood	
19
Kin & Hearth	
7
King Bard in 2956	
43
L
(The) Lair of the Beast	
34
(The) Lair of the Outlaws	
99
(The) Lair of the Vampire	
109
(The) Lamp is Lost	
86
(The) Last Foe	
125
(The) Last Good Years: 2947-2950	
11
(The) Lieutenant of Dol Guldur as
Dark Undead	
128
(The) Lieutenant of Dol Guldur, Unclad 
and Invisible	
129
Light & Dark	
7
(The) Lord of the Tyrant’s Hill	
13
Lost in the Sea of Trees	
40
(A) Loving Daughter	
88
Lure the Werewolf	
105
M
(The) Messenger	
99
(The) Messenger of Mordor as 
Dark Undead	
132
(The) Messenger of Mordor, Unclad and
Invisible	
132
Messengers and Petitioners	
46
(To the) Millfort	
28
(The) Mirkwood Campaign	
4
(Into the) Misty Mountains	
115
(The Arrival of) Mogdred	
65
(The Crimes of) Mogdred	
63
(The) Moot Begins	
15
(Attack of the) Mountain-trolls	
115
N
(The) Nature of the Beast	
104
(The) Nazgûl of Dol Guldur	
127
News from Afar	
5
News from Dale	
99
O
(Restoring the) Old Forest Road	
31
(The) Old Road	
29
Other Passengers	
40
(The) Other Side	
116
(The) Outlaw Camp	
72
(The) Outlaws	
26, 98
P
(The) Passing Years	
7
(The) Path of Song	
108
Personal Stakes	
6
(The) Pit of the Exiled Dwarves	
19
(Companions & the) Plague	
91
(Treating the) Plague	
90	
(The) Plague of Mirkwood	
90
(The) Plight of the Prince	
112
(The) Prince’s Tale	
97
Private Concerns	
45
(The) Prodigal Son	
15
Pursuit!	
86
R
(What About) Radagast?	
59
Radagast the Brown	
14
Raegenhere	
96
(The) Raids Begin	
49
Rating	
9
Receive Title (Barding Thegn)	
114
Receive Title (Hero of the Woodmen)	
86
Receive Title (War-leader)	
66
(The) Refuge	
68
Rescuing the Prisoners	
83
(The) Return of the Shadow: 2951-2960	 25
Return to the Halls	
35
(At) Rhosgobel	
13
(At) Rivendell	
125
(The) River Bore	
40
(A New) River-maiden	
61
(The) River-maiden Uncloaked	
49
(The) River-maiden’s Trap	
58
(The) Roadwarden’s Staff	
30
Ruthiel	
18
(Saving) Ruithel	
19
S
Saruman Revealed in Wrath	
52
Savage Hound	
13
Saving the Village	
50
(The) Second Choice	
120
(The) Secret of Dol Guldur	
24
Secrets of the House	
92
Secrets of the Lamp	
34
Servant of Tyrant’s Hill	
12
(The) Shadow of Fear	
128
(The) Shadow of the Mountain	
108
Shadow of the Spider	
38
Shadows in the Forest	
133
(The) Sick Child	
94
(A) Siege	
49
Siege of the Wights	
95
(The) Silent Hall	
38
Sneaking into the Castle	
112
Sorrow of the Maidens	
41
Specialities	
9
(A) Spider	
29
Spider Magic	
57
(The) Spy of Rhosgobel	
11
Stalking the Foe	
84
(The) Strangers from the East	
62
Stone-Troll Chief	
70
Storming the Castle	
114
Surviving the Encounter	
71
T
(Enter) Tauler	
59
(Getting past) Tauler	
30
(Meeting) Tauler	
56
“There Was Something Else At Work…”	 64
(The) Thrall Curse	
111
(At) Thranduil’s Court	
76
Tracking the Lost Boat	
41
(A) Tragic Death	
47
Treachery	
122
(The) Treachery of Men	
78
(The) Treachery of the Wineseller	
88
Treasure of the Trolls	
71
(The) Troll Ambush	
69
(From the) Tyrant’s Hill to the Fens 
of Dol Guldur	
21
(The) Tyrant’s Hill	
51
(Confronting) Tyulqin	
59
U
Unexpected Complications	
106
Unexpected Guests	
70
Unsurmountable Odds	
71
V
Valdis	
109, 110
(Battling) Valdis	
111
Valley of Illusion	
37
(The Great) Vampire	
109
Index

--- PAGE 142 ---
Mirkwood Campaign
142
Vengeance of the Outlaws	
74
(The) Voice in the Night	
124
W
Weighted Nets	
70
(The) Werewolf	
115
(The) Werewolf of Mirkwood	
118
(At) Woodland Hall	
73
(To) Woodmen-town	
51, 60
(Travel to) Woodmen-town	
105
Wizards’ Counsel	
51
Y
Year 2947	
11
	
Adventuring Phase: The Wizard’s 	
	
	
Man	
11
	
Events	
11
	
Year’s End	
13
Year 2948	
13
	
Adventuring Phase: The Folk-moot 	
	
	
of Rhosgobel	
14
	
Events	
13
	
Year’s End	
17
Year 2949	
17
	
Adventuring Phase: The Questing 	
	
	
Beasts	
17
	
Events	
17
	
Year’s End	
20
Year 2950	
20
	
Adventuring Phase: Secrets Buried	
20
	
Events	
20
	
Year’s End	
24
Year 2951	
25
	
Adventuring Phase: The Helm of 
	
Peace	
25
	
Events	
25
	
Year’s End	
28
Year 2952	
28
	
Adventuring Phase: The Staff of the
	
Roadwarden	
28
	
Events	
28
	
Year’s End	
30
Year 2953	
31
	
Adventuring Phase: The Beast of the 	
	
	
Forest	
32
	
Events	
31
	
Year’s End	
35
Year 2954	
35
	
Adventuring Phase: The Lost Path	
36
	
Events	
35
	
Year’s End	
39
Year 2955	
39
	
Adventuring Phase: Treacherous 	
	
	
Waters	
39
	
Events	
39
	
Year’s End	
42
Year 2956	
42
	
Adventuring Phase: Murder in 
	
Lake-town	
42
	
Events	
42
	
Year’s End	
48
Year 2957	
48
	
Adventuring Phase: The Siege of
	
Black Tarn Hall	
48
	
Events	
48
	
Year’s End	
52
Year 2958	
53
	
Adventuring Phase: Saving the 	
	
	
Maiden	
53
	
Events	
53	
	
Year’s End	
61
Year 2959	
61
	
Adventuring Phase: The Horse-Lord’s 	 	
	
Daughter	
62
	
Events	
61	
	
Year’s End	
63
Year 2960	
64
	
Adventuring Phase: The Death of 	
	
	
Ingomer	
64
	
Events	
64	
	
Year’s End	
66
Year 2961	
67
	
Adventuring Phase: Paying the Troll	 67
	
Events	
67	
	
Year’s End	
71
Year 2962	
72	
	
Adventuring Phase: Honour Among 	
	
	
Thieves	
72
	
Events	
72	
	
Year’s End	
74
Year 2963	
74	
	
Adventuring Phase: The Anger of the 
	
Elvenking	
74
	
Events	
74	
	
Year’s End	
76
Year 2964	
76
	
Adventuring Phase: The Greydelve	
77
	
Events	
76
	
Year’s End	
78
Year 2965	
78
	
Adventuring Phase: The Theft of the 	
	
	
Lamp	
78
	
Events	
78
	
Year’s End	
82
Year 2966	
83
	
Adventuring Phase: Return to Dol 	
	
	
Guldur	
83
	
Events	
83
	
Year’s End	
86
Year 2967	
87
	
Adventuring Phase: Treachery in the 	 	
	
Woods	
87
	
Events	
87	
	
Year’s End	
90
Year 2968	
91
	
Adventuring Phase: Nine in 	
	
	
the Hall	
91
	
Events	
91
	
Events in the Hall	
91
	
Year’s End	
96
Year 2969	
96
	
Adventuring Phase: Wheels within 	
	
	
Wheels	
97
	
Events	
96
	
Year’s End	
100
Year 2970	
100
	
Adventuring Phase: Slaying the Forest 	 	
	
Dragon	
103	
	
Events	
100
	
Year’s End	
104
Year 2971	
104	
	
Adventuring Phase: The Dying of the 	
	
	
Light	
104	
	
Events	
104	
	
Year’s End	
107
Year 2972	
107	
	
Adventuring Phase: The Hame of the 	
	
	
Vampire	
107	
	
Events	
107	
	
Year’s End	
111
Year 2973	
111	
	
Adventuring Phase: The Reach of the 	
	
	
Shadow	
111	
	
Events	
111	
	
Year’s End	
114
Year 2974	
115	
	
Adventuring Phase: Beorn’s Quest	 115	
	
Events	
115	
	
Year’s End	
117
Year 2975	
119	
	
Adventuring Phase: The Last 
	
Folk-moot	
119	
	
Events	
119	
	
Year’s End	
121
Year 2976	
121	
	
Adventuring Phase: The March of 
	
the Woodmen	
121
	
Adventuring Phase: To Rivendell	
124
	
Events	
121	
	
Year’s End	
126
Year 2977	
126	
	
Epilogue: The Passing of the King	
126
	
Events	
126
Year’s End	
6
(The) Years of the Plague: 2967-2974	
87

--- PAGE 143 ---
The Road Goes Ever OnTM: a beautiful 
collection of 4 journey maps for 
Adventures in Middle-earth, along with 
a 32 page supplement packed with setting 
information, rules and guidance on making 
the most of your journeys.
The double sided, large format maps cover 
the greater part of known Middle-earth: 
Eriador, Wilderland, Rohan, Gondor 
and Mordor. With Player maps and 
hexed Loremaster maps, these provide 
an invaluable play aid for planning your 
Adventure in Middle-earth journeys.
The accompanying 32 page softcover 
supplement gives Loremasters even 
more support, inspiration and systems 
for generating even more engaging and 
exciting journeys.
CB72305
$29.99 
£19.99
www.cubicle7.co.uk
TM

--- PAGE 144 ---
OPEN GAME LICENSE Version 1.0a 
The following text is the property of Wizards of the Coast, Inc. and is 
Copyright 2000 Wizards of the Coast, Inc ("Wizards"). All Rights Reserved. 
1. Definitions: (a)"Contributors" means the copyright and/or trademark 
owners who have contributed Open Game Content; (b)"Derivative 
Material" means copyrighted material including derivative works 
and translations (including into other computer languages), potation, 
modification, correction, addition, extension, upgrade, improvement, 
compilation, abridgment or other form in which an existing work may 
be recast, transformed or adapted; (c) "Distribute" means to reproduce, 
license, rent, lease, sell, broadcast, publicly display, transmit or otherwise 
distribute; (d)"Open Game Content" means the game mechanic and 
includes the methods, procedures, processes and routines to the extent 
such content does not embody the Product Identity and is an enhancement 
over the prior art and any additional content clearly identified as Open 
Game Content by the Contributor, and means any work covered by this 
License, including translations and derivative works under copyright law, 
but specifically excludes Product Identity. (e) "Product Identity" means 
product and product line names, logos and identifying marks including 
trade dress; artifacts; creatures characters; stories, storylines, plots, 
thematic elements, dialogue, incidents, language, artwork, symbols, 
designs, depictions, likenesses, formats, poses, concepts, themes and 
graphic, photographic and other visual or audio representations; names 
and descriptions of characters, spells, enchantments, personalities, 
teams, personas, likenesses and special abilities; places, locations, 
environments, creatures, equipment, magical or supernatural abilities or 
effects, logos, symbols, or graphic designs; and any other trademark or 
registered trademark clearly identified as Product identity by the owner 
of the Product Identity, and which specifically excludes the Open Game 
Content; (f) "Trademark" means the logos, names, mark, sign, motto, 
designs that are  used by a Contributor to identify itself or its products 
or the associated products contributed to the Open Game License by the 
Contributor (g) "Use", "Used" or "Using" means to use, Distribute, copy, 
edit, format, modify, translate and otherwise create Derivative Material 
of Open Game Content. (h) "You" or "Your" means the licensee in terms of 
this agreement. 
2. The License: This License applies to any Open Game Content that 
contains a notice indicating that the Open Game Content may only be 
Used under and in terms of this License. You must affix such a notice 
to any Open Game Content that you Use. No terms may be added to or 
subtracted from this License except as described by the License itself. No 
other terms or conditions may be applied to any Open Game Content 
distributed using this License. 
3.Offer and Acceptance: By Using the Open Game Content You indicate 
Your acceptance of the terms of this License. 
4. Grant and Consideration: In consideration for agreeing to use this 
License, the Contributors grant You a perpetual, worldwide, royalty free, 
non exclusive license with the exact terms of this License to Use, the Open 
Game Content. 
5.Representation of Authority to Contribute: If You are contributing 
original material as Open Game Content, You represent that Your 
Contributions are Your original creation and/or You have sufficient rights 
to grant the rights conveyed by this License. 
6.Notice of License Copyright: You must update the COPYRIGHT NOTICE 
portion of this License to include the exact text of the COPYRIGHT NOTICE 
of any Open Game Content You are copying, modifying or distributing, 
and You must add the title, the copyright date, and the copyright holder's 
name to the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any original Open Game Content you 
Distribute. 
7. Use of Product Identity: You agree not to Use any Product Identity, 
including as an indication as to compatibility, except as expressly licensed 
in another, independent Agreement with the owner of each element of that 
Product Identity. You agree not to indicate compatibility or co adaptability 
with any Trademark or Registered Trademark in conjunction with a work 
containing Open Game Content except as expressly licensed in another, 
independent Agreement with the owner of such Trademark or Registered 
Trademark. The use of any Product Identity in Open Game Content does 
not constitute a challenge to the ownership of that Product Identity. The 
owner of any Product Identity used in Open Game Content shall retain all 
rights, title and interest in and to that Product Identity. 
8. Identification: If you distribute Open Game Content You must clearly 
indicate which portions of the work that you are distributing are Open 
Game Content. 
9. Updating the License: Wizards or its designated Agents may publish 
updated versions of this License. You may use any authorized version 
of this License to copy, modify and distribute any Open Game Content 
originally distributed under any version of this License. 
10. Copy of this License: You MUST include a copy of this License with 
every copy of the Open Game Content You Distribute. 
11. Use of Contributor Credits: You may not market or advertise the Open 
Game Content using the name of any Contributor unless You have written 
permission from the Contributor to do so. 
12. Inability to Comply: If it is impossible for You to comply with any of the 
terms of this License with respect to some or all of the Open Game Content 
due to statute, judicial order, or governmental regulation then You may 
not Use any Open Game Material so affected. 
13. Termination: This License will terminate automatically if You fail 
to comply with all terms herein and fail to cure such breach within 30 
days of becoming aware of the breach. All sublicenses shall survive the 
termination of this License. 
14. Reformation: If any provision of this License is held to be 
unenforceable, such provision shall be reformed only to the extent 
necessary to make it enforceable. 
15. COPYRIGHT NOTICE 
Open Game License v 1.0a Copyright 2000, Wizards of the Coast, LLC. 
System Reference Document 5.1 Copyright 2016, Wizards of the Coast, 
Inc.; Authors Mike Mearls, Jeremy Crawford, Chris Perkins, Rodney 
Thompson, Peter Lee, James Wyatt, Robert J. Schwalb, Bruce R. Cordell, 
Chris Sims, and Steve Townshend, based on original material by E. Gary 
Gygax and Dave Arneson. 
Adventures in Middle-earth Player’s Guide Copyright 2016 Cubicle 7 
Entertainment Ltd/Sophisticated Games Ltd; Authors: James Brown, Paul 
Butler, Walt Ciechanowksi, Steve Emmott, Gareth Ryder-Hanrahan, Jon 
Hodgson, Shane Ivey, Andrew Kenrick, TS Luikart, Dominic McDowall, 
Francesco Nepitello, James Spahn, Ken Spencer.
Adventures in Middle-earth Loremaster’s Guide Copyright 2017 
Cubicle 7 Entertainment Ltd/Sophisticated Games Ltd; Authors: Walt 
Ciechanowski, Steve Emmott, Jon Hodgson, TS Luikart, Dominic 
McDowall, Francesco Nepitello, David Rea, Jacob Rodgers, Gareth 
Ryder-Hanrahan and Ken Spencer.
Adventures in Middle-earth Wilderland Adventures Copyright 2017 
Cubicle 7 Entertainment Ltd/Sophisticated Games Ltd; Authors: Gareth 
Ryder-Hanrahan, Francesco Nepitello, Jon Hodgson, and Steve Emmott.
Adventures in Middle-earth Mirkwood Campaign Copyright 2017 
Cubicle 7 Entertainment Ltd/Sophisticated Games Ltd; Authors: Gareth 
Ryder-Hanrahan, Francesco Nepitello and Jacob Rodgers.
END OF LICENSE