--- PAGE 1 ---
1
CREDITS
DESIGNER
Brian Suskind
DEVELOPMENT AND EDITING
Jeff Quick
COVER ARTIST
Florian Stitz. Egil Thompson
INTERIOR ARTISTS
Florian Stitz
LAYOUT
 Marc Radle
DIRECTOR OF DIGITAL GROWTH 
Blaine McNutt
ART DIRECTOR
Marc Radle
EDITORIAL DIRECTOR
Thomas M. Reid
DIRECTOR OF OPERATIONS
T. Alexander Stangroom
SALES MANAGER
Kym Weiler
COMMUNITY MANAGER
Victoria Rogers
TWITCH PRODUCER
Chelsea “Dot” Steverson
PUBLISHER
Wolfgang Baur
Product Identity: The following items are hereby identified as Product Identity, as defined in the 
Open Game License version 1.0a, Section 1(e), and are not Open Content: All trademarks, registered 
trademarks, proper names (characters, place names, new deities, etc.), dialogue, plots, story elements, 
locations, characters, artwork, sidebars, and trade dress.
(Elements that have previously been designated as Open Game Content are not included in this declaration.)
Midgard and Kobold Press are trademarks of Open Design LLC. All rights reserved.
©2022 Open Design LLC. All rights reserved.
www.koboldpress.com
PO Box 2811 | Kirkland WA 98083
Open Game Content: The Open Content includes the skipstone and the conjure acorns, glide, 
and gnawing leap spells. All other material is Product Identity, especially place names, character 
names, locations, story elements, background, and fiction.
No other portion of this work may be reproduced in any form without permission.

--- PAGE 2 ---
2
CELETIAL GOSSIPS
Sàlve, my friends! It is I, Lucano Volpe. A patrician of 
the city of Moredo and an explorer of modest fame. After 
returning from a sojourn to the Brilliant East, I did have 
the occasion to step from Midgard onto Yggdrasil itself 
and there met the curious squirrel-folk who inhabit the 
twisting branches. Herein, and with following missives, 
I shall relate distinctly what I beheld, and what I heard 
from trusted others, concerning the ratatosk.
—Lucano Volpe
Inspired by Norse mythology, specifically the Poetic 
Edda, the ratatosk are celestial humanoid squirrels 
who dwell in the extraplanar environment of the 
World Tree. Ratatosk are insatiable gossips and 
tricksters whose joy in gathering secrets is only 
eclipsed by their delight in spreading those gathered 
morsels of gossip in mischievous ways. 
The squirrel-folk build fortified towers and sprawling 
tree cities in secret nooks or suspended beneath the 
vast branches of Yggdrasil. In most squirrel-folk 
communities, 70% of the population is the tiny-sized 
ekorre (or ratatosk, see Tome of Beasts) and 25% are 
their larger cousins, the tradvakt (or ratatosk warlord, 
see Creature Codex). The last 5% are of a few lesser 
subraces, but these are seldom seen by outsiders. 
In the byways of Yggdrasil, ratatosk often act as 
guides, leading planar travelers, though it is not 
uncommon to find squirrel-folk offering their services 
as couriers, thieves, or even spies. The tradvakt do not 
possess the planar connection of the ekorre, so they 
prefer using their martial skills to guard the ratatosk 
communities or provide protection for travelers.

--- PAGE 3 ---
3
RATATOSK THE CLEVER
The squirrel-folk believe they descend from Ratatosk, 
the first of their kind and namesake of their race. 
According to the myths, the wily and sly Ratatosk 
stole the World Tree seed from the gods and buried it 
at the very center of the multiverse where it grew large 
enough to hold the various planes in its branches. 
For much of the early ages of the world, Ratatosk 
ran up and down Yggdrasill, carrying messages and 
insults between Nidhogg, the serpent gnawing at 
the tree’s roots, and the mighty eagle perched upon 
the highest branch. From time to time, the clever 
squirrel acted as messenger for the gods, but he 
rarely delivered a missive unembellished. Even today, 
some of the gods show great reluctance in entrusting 
messages with his descendants while others think it 
provides great comedy. The squirrel-folk continue to 
honor Ratatosk with an almost deific fervor.
CELESTIAL GOSSIPS
The incessant chattering of the ratatosk is not 
mere animalistic nattering: it is a complex web of 
interconnected messages relayed from squirrel-folk 
to squirrel-folk. Their ability to use the message 
spell at will provides the core of this celestial gossip 
network. As described in the infamous Nine Chthonic 
Papuri of Heknusret the Temerarious (see Warlock 9: 
World Tree), the ratatosk visit the eagle at the top of 
the World Tree each day to exchange the latest news, 
rumors, and scuttlebutt. These tidbits flow from 
ratatosk to ratatosk and from them to the eagle itself 
in a never-ending cycle of gossip. Any traveler who 
wishes to learn the latest goings-on needs but ask a 
ratatosk. However, the little creatures cannot help 
but elaborate their news to make the stories better 
for their audience. This even extends to two listeners 
standing side by side. Each might hear vastly different 
accounts from the same ratatosk, which often leads to 
arguments, misunderstands, and even fighting.
ROLE IN A CAMPAIGN
Ratatosk are divine figures who dwell on Yggdrasil 
itself, so their traditional role of messenger or guide 
seemingly takes on a divine countenance. They 
can act as the focus of a quest—perhaps a tidbit of 
information needed by the heroes is known to a 
particular ratatosk—or as is often the case, perhaps a 
ratatosk went just a bit too far and shared the wrong 
bit of gossip with the wrong person and now needs 
rescue. The squirrel-folk can appear at the end of a 
quest as well. After defeating a major foe, perhaps a 
ratatosk appears to deliver important information 
from a divine patron or a well-deserved reward from 
a mysterious benefactor. 
If the GM needs a twist—or an amusing side story—
the ratatosk can provide. Perhaps after the heroes 
learn some critical bit of information, a ratatosk 
arrives to convince them to share the lore. Of course, 
if denied, the ratatosk are not above nicking an 
importing looking scroll or item left unguarded. 
ADVENTURE HOOKS
There are many stories to be told of the ratatosk:
•	 The great Library of Friula has a squirrel problem. 
Ratatosk raiders plague the stacks and halls of the 
library, stealing books and scrolls only to return 
them to the shelves altered with exaggerated 
facts and outright lies. Keeper Lynnean Verdia 
is desperate. Can the PCs delve into the endless 
stacks to stop this scurry of squirrel-folk before the 
entire library is hopelessly edited?
•	 An audacious ratatosk thief steals a scroll of 
forgotten wisdom from the wrong mark. With too 
many foes on her trail, the sly squirrel-folk hires 
the PCs to escort her to the Black Cyprus World 
Tree, west of Verrayne. Of course, she neglects to 
mention the scroll’s owner is the Lord of Demon 
Mountain himself!
CULTURE AND SOCIETY
Following in the footsteps of Heknusret the Temerarious 
and his Nine Chthonic Papyri, I did spend a marvelous 
season among the Ratatosk of Yggdrasil. A curious and 
mischievous race, the squirrel-folk exhibit a carefree 
existence based on guiding travelers, collecting and 
spreading gossip, and feasting. Yet for all they delight in 
sharing the secrets of others, I suspect they harbor deep 
mysteries beneath their adorable exteriors.
—Lucano Volpe
RATATOSK CULTURE AND SOCIETY
Unlike the common Midgardian squirrel, ratatosk 
are not solitary creatures, and they live in close 
matriarchal family groups called scurries. The 
squirrel-folk are proud of their heritage, and each 
ratatosk can proudly recite tales of their scurry back to 
the first squirrel, Ratatosk the Clever. The eldest female 
of each scurry sits on a council, maintaining order 
and resolving disputes within their dray, or ratatosk 
settlement. Occasionally the council will appoint a 
warleader to lead a raid against a nearby threat, but its

--- PAGE 4 ---
4
most important duty is to host the sakmoot, 
a daily gathering (usually in the morning) 
where the ratatosk gather to exchange news 
and gossip. Information from across the planes 
filters down to the sakmoot. A common ratatosk 
adage states, “The softest whisper in the farthest 
nook of the endless void will eventually be 
repeated in the smallest sakmoot.”
There are no secrets for the ratatosk. The 
exchange of news and gossip is routine 
and expected between individuals, and 
indeed, no real business is ever conducted 
by a ratatosk before secrets are shared. 
Personal property is more of a vague 
guideline to the ratatosk rather than 
any established law. They think 
nothing of “borrowing” something 
shiny or interesting, which they fully 
intend to return if they do not get distracted.
Visitors to a dray may feel bombarded with 
intrusive questions from the ever-curious 
squirrel‑folk. Older ratatosk try not to “borrow” 
items from non-ratatosk, but the younger 
members of a dray may not be so restrained. 
RATATOSK SETTLEMENTS
Life in a ratatosk dray is a boisterous, chittering 
place, providing warm hearths, food, music, 
and stories to their friends—and death by a thousand 
sharp teeth to their enemies. The drays themselves 
are small affairs, consisting of a dozen scurries, and 
are hidden in scattered locations up and down the 
length of Yggdrasil. The tradvakt (ratatosk warlord, 
see Creature Codex) provide protection for each dray 
while the majority of the community is made up of 
the smaller ekorre (ratatosk, see Tome of Beasts) and a 
few members of other planar races. 
Typical settlements consist of a few exterior, 
free-standing buildings fashioned out of discarded 
World Tree bark and tucked into the crook of two 
or more massive branches. These structures are 
cleverly camouflaged and require a DC 15 Wisdom 
(Perception) check to spot. A stout wall of woven 
vines and branches gives the squirrel-folk a protective 
barrier against the occasional monster or raider. 
The exterior buildings provide accommodations for 
visiting guests and a marketplace to trade. Beyond 
these structures, the squirrel-folk live in a network of 
halls, domiciles, burrows, storerooms, workshops, and 
public spaces carved out of the World Tree. They take 
great care to keep their tunnels within the outermost 
layer of Yggdrasil’s bark so as not to harm the great 
tree. Each dray has two buildings in common: 
a feasting hall to host the 
sakmoot, and a temple or shrine 
dedicated to Ratatosk the Clever.
When ratatosk children reach adulthood, they 
exhibit a wanderlust few other races understand. 
Most simply explore Yggdrasil, gathering rumors and 
secrets from the Vedfolnir in the Eyrie, Nidhogg in 
the roots (see Warlock 9: World Tree) or those they 
encounter. Ratatosk often offer their services as guides 
to planar travelers, seeing it as an easy way to learn 
more gossip. 
The largest ratatosk dray is Grenstad, home to 
4,000 ratatosk and a smattering of aasimar, tieflings, 
ravenfolk, and planar humans. The city rests at the 
heart of the Great Branching, a union of five World 
Tree segments, and hosts the Squirrel Court of 
Yggdrasil, the Acorn Palace of Queen Clarahekkarina, 
as well as the famed Ekollon Halle feast hall (see 
Warlock 9: World Tree for more detail).
Another famous dray is Orypel. This magically 
hidden stronghold of 500 is situated near the Well 
of Urd and sends scouts who risk obliteration to spy 
upon the Norns. The Three Sisters are well aware of 
the ratatosk interlopers and occasionally use their 
eavesdropping to unofficially pass on information.

--- PAGE 5 ---
5
FOOD AND DRINK
Ratatosk are omnivores, though their diet is primarily 
vegetarian. The main foodstuff of the squirrel-folk 
is gryta, a rich nut stew made from the acorns of the 
World Tree and sweetened with honey and spices. 
They also eat berries and flower bulbs grown in vertical 
gardens set into Yggdrasil’s trunk. Ratatosk love the 
sweets and foods of Midgard and often exchange goods 
or services for pies, candies, or sweetmeats. 
BLESSED GRYTA MEAD
Potion, very rare
Enhanced by ratatosk brewer-clerics, this thick, golden 
liquid is brewed from the acorns of the World Tree and 
smells of honey and oak. When you drink a pint of this 
elixir, you gain the benefits of a heroes’ feast spell for 
1 hour. In addition, you have advantage on Dexterity 
checks and saving throws for the same duration.
HOLIDAY CELEBRATIONS 
AND RELIGION
Laugh at me all you want, you furry terrors! There is no 
way in the Eleven Hells that I am going to do that!
—Lucano Volpe at the Fallskarm Celebration
HOLIDAY CELEBRATIONS
The ratatosk are a joyful race who use any excuse to 
hold a celebration, party, or feast. Where other faiths, 
such as worshippers of Perun, have days honoring 
specific saints, every single day of the squirrel-folk 
seasonal calendar is marked by a holiday. The subjects 
of these holidays vary from obviously important to 
something akin to a thinly veiled excuse.
When you arrive in a ratatosk community, you will 
certainly be just in time for that day’s celebration. The 
theme of the holiday could be:
RATATOSK CELEBRATIONS TABLE
d8
Reason for Celebration
1
An important historical anniversary
2
A particular hero or legend
3
The first day of the month
4
Fur Brushing Day
5
The arrival of visitors!
6
The last day of the month
7
A favorite food
8
Celebrating the color green
The squirrel-folk hold two important celebrations, 
apart from these daily holidays.
Viskarmoot
On the first day of Harvest Tide, every squirrel-folk 
community sends their strongest or cleverest member 
to the Aerie at the top of the World Tree, to the den 
of the serpent at its roots, or out into the various 
planes. These seekers spend 4 months gathering the 
most important secrets they can ferret out. On the last 
day of Snowfall, they gather in Grenstad to publicly 
present their secrets to the Squirrel Court before 
returning home to great fanfare and celebration. 
Visitors, both mortal and divine, often attend the 
Sharing of Secrets to hear the ratatosk’s stolen lore.
The Fallskarm Celebration
Held during the first week of High Summer, the 
Fallskarm commemorates the infamous ratatosk 
heroine, Churr Scurida, who brought a vital cure 
(to a disease) from the top of Yggdrasil to a ratatosk 
community near the base by leaping off the World 
Tree. To honor her memory, participants in the 
Fallskarm don specially made, winged garments and 
hurl themselves from one of the highest ratatosk 
settlements. The individual who reaches the lowest 
point of Yggdrasil without crashing on branches or 
trunk, succumbing to aerial monsters, or tumbling 
into the void receive great fame among the ratatosk as 
well as a prize given by Queen Clarahekkarina. In the 
past, this prize has been rare magical items gathered 
from across the planes, but it is a widely acknowledged 
secret that the winner of the Fallskarm can instead 
request the answer to a single question from Vedfolnir, 
the all-seeing hawk at the top of Yggdrasil. 
RELIGION
Though not an overly religious people, it would be 
impossible to discuss the ratatosk without presenting 
information about Ratatosk, the Squirrel God.
Ratatosk
Nut Bringer, Keeper of Gossip, Clever Lord of Secrets, 
Patron of Travelers and Ratatosk
Divine Domain. Travel and Trickery (also the 
Keeper Domain, see Warlock 23: Bearfolk)
Alignment. Chaotic
Favored Weapon. Dagger, spear
Ratatosk is the clever runner, mischievous trickster, 
and laughing messenger of Yggdrasil. Responsibilities, 
rules, and orders fall forgotten to the joy of new 
sights, gathering secrets, and spreading rumors.

--- PAGE 6 ---
6
The followers of the Squirrel God view secrets as a 
challenge to uncover and share. In a plane-spanning 
multiverse of the powerful and frightening, he is an 
unredeemable source of joy and humor.
The public face of the Nut Bringer is a human-sized 
ratatosk with tiny silver tusks and a golden horn 
protruding from his forehead. When he appears to his 
faithful, Ratatosk speaks telepathically in a whispering 
voice, brimming with suppressed laughter. 
Worshippers
Ratatosk is worshipped by those who dwell upon 
Yggdrasil, some planar settlements, and in a few 
communities near the various World Trees on Midgard. 
Messengers and far travelers in the Northlands make 
offerings of cracked hazelnuts to the Squirrel God for 
luck on their journeys. 
Symbols and Books
Ratatosk’s symbol is a Golden Acorn. His priests mostly 
pass his faith along via oral tales and songs, though an 
exiled ratatosk scholar in the Marketplace currently 
seeks to compile the teachings into a complete tome.
Shrines and Priests
The most famous shrines of Ratatosk are the 
Chittering Temple in Grenstad and the Wellspring 
in Orypel. The Squirrel God’s priesthood includes 
ratatosk, ravenfolk, as well as a smattering of catfolk.
Masks
Perhaps for obvious reasons, few faiths lay claim to 
Ratatosk as a mask of their gods. Some humans claim 
he is a mask of Loki, but various omens suggest the 
northern trickster god violently disagrees. Those in the 
Southlands or regions to the east of the Dragon Empire 
often equate Ratatosk with Nakresh, the Monkey God, 
though this connection is tenuous at best. It is possible 
that Ratatosk has no masks associated with him.
Other Faiths
Ratatosk is regarded with humorous exasperation by 
most faiths, yet his connection to Yggdrasil means 
they cannot ignore him completely. He is a great 
source of information and gossip, though few gods 
trust the Squirrel God to keep their secrets to himself. 
Ratatosk has a close relationship with the Northern 
Gods, though most of them distrusts him, except for 
Odin. For it was Ratatosk who secretly dripped the 
juice of a stolen Golden Apple into the one‑eyed god’s 
mouth while he hung upon the World Tree.
What Ratatosk Demands
Gather choice rumors and whispers as you would the 
finest acorns. Spread your gathered tidbits to entertain 
and amuse yourself. Guide the lost and the wandering. 
Always respect mighty Yggdrasil.
PLANAR GUIDES AND 
SQUIRREL-FOLK NAMES
If you find yourself tramping about the planes, you 
could do far, far worse than having a Ratatosk guide by 
your side. Just be quick with the fee, or you might find 
yourself stranded someplace quite unpleasant.
—Lucano Volpe
In their obsessive search for new tidbits of gossip 
and secrets, the ratatosk travel the various routes 
between the planes, such as the World Tree, the 
Ever‑River, Red Portals, shadow roads, catslide alleys, 
and similar transit points. Many squirrel-folk offer 
their services, leading parties of travelers between the 
planes. Ratatosk guides do not have a formal guild 
or organization, but the vast majority do adhere to 
certain unwritten rules:
•	 Clearly state the destination before departure.
•	 Get half-pay up front or a magically enforced 
promissory (usually backed by a geas spell)
•	 Use the quickest and safest route possible
•	 No “petting” the guide
•	 No squirrel jokes
Fees. There is no standard rate for a ratatosk guide, 
and the payment varies widely from guide to guide. 
While coin is nice, most ratatosk prefer to be paid with 
knowledge and secrets, preferably rare lore or juicy 
gossip. They also accept magical items or shiny things 
if those catch their attention.
Travel Time. Due to their almost instinctive 
knowledge of planar routes, and the wide information 
net they share, ratatosk guides greatly reduce the 
GENERAL TRAVEL TIMES
World Tree
2–4 days
Ever-River/Shadow Roads
3–6 days
Portals
Instantaneous (though finding the nearest portal may take up to 5 days)
Numerous other routes exist to and from the planes. Only the gods (and perhaps the ratatosk) know them all.

--- PAGE 7 ---
7
time required to travel from plane to plane. Getting 
to a planar route may also take time, depending on 
where the ratatosk guide is encountered. Of course, 
conditions in the planes are never the same twice, so 
these travel times are approximations at best.
NOTABLE RATATOSK GUIDES
Alva Frostpaw. This fierce ratatosk lives in a den 
carved halfway up Wotan’s Tree in Trollheim. 
Currently, she engages in a feud with the local 
ravenfolk population who roost in the World Tree. 
Alva disagrees with the ravenfolk who believe only 
those ready should be allowed to pass into the planes. 
The ratatosk will guide anyone who meets her fee of 
exotic beverages.
Chitata Sharpeye. A canny and worldly ratatosk 
warlord (see Creature Codex), Chitata is the leader of 
Scurry Scouts, a collective of some half-dozen ratatosk 
guides. This thriving business operates out of a small 
dwelling at the base of the Golden Bough, a World 
Tree located in the Uppermarket of Klingedesh, the 
Marketplace Plane. One of the few guides who accepts 
hard coins, his standard rate is 5 gp for passage from 
the Marketplace to Yggdrasil.
Keerthi Cleversong. An older ratatosk, Keerthi lives in 
an uneasy alliance with Ruomu, an awakened World 
Tree sapling in the far reaches of the Brilliant East. 
The living tree isn’t overly keen on travelers scaling 
him; however Keerthi is adept at bribing the massive 
mulberry treant with fine poetry and song. Her fee is 
often musical in nature.
Lutalo Flitwhisker. This ratatosk warlord guards 
Mamiwata’s Mangrove, a massive tree growing in the 
middle of the Selwheyha River Delta in Lignas. He 
will allow access to groups of climbers in return for 
magic items of uncommon or greater rarity. Secretly, 
Lutalo acts as a spy for the Lady of Vipers. 
Nanja Sandtooth. A ratatosk with pale fur, Nanja can 
be found most often at the Menatayni Oasis in the 
Crescent Desert. For a small fee of gaudy clothing, she 
guides travelers up the towering Palm of the Sheikh 
and onto Yggdrasil. 
Orrin Bristletail. (See Warlock 9: World Tree.) 
This ratatosk operates out of Grenstad, the largest 
squirrel-folk city and is most often encountered on 
the branches of Yggdrasil. He is an insatiable talker 
with a love of dates and sweets who accepts the same 
for his services.
RATATOSK NAMES
The naming conventions of the squirrel-folk put the 
emphasis on a forename given to a child at birth. The 
ratatosk make no differentiation between male and 
female names. Names tend to be short, but highly 
respected families occasionally add infixes like “-ee-” 
or “-ekke-” to create longer names. Ratatosk who 
dwell in other planes sometimes take regional names.
During the course of a lifetime, a ratatosk gains and 
loses a number of surnames, usually a descriptive 
title in the form of an adjective or verb followed by a 
noun, such as “bristletail,” “wisetooth,” or “sharpclaw.” 
Most often, a ratatosk chooses this changing surname 
themselves to commemorate an important milestone 
in their lives.
Forenames: Chiringa, Ekirp, Kerasil, Najuta, Orrin, 
Skirekkeret, Tiptup, Turorri
Surnames: Brightsong, Flitpaw, Jumptwig, Silentleaf 
RATATOSK NAME GENERATOR
d10
Prefix
d10
Prefix
1
Chir-
6
Scu-
2
Ek-
7
Skir-
3
Ker-
8
Tip-
4
Naj-
9
Tosk-
5
Orr-
10
Tur-
d4
Infix
d4
Infix
1
-ata
3
-ekke-
2
-ee-
4
-itta-
d10
Suffix
d10
Suffix
1
-asil
6
-rin
2
-et
7
-rrup
3
-inga
8
-rry
4
-irp
9
-tup
5
-orri
10
-utta
SURNAME GENERATOR
d10
Prefix
d10
Prefix
1
Bright
6
Punch 
2
Bristle
7
Sharp
3
Clever
8
Silent 
4
Flit
9
True
5
Jump
10
Wise

--- PAGE 8 ---
8
d10
Prefix
d10
Prefix
1
Claw
6
Song
2
Eyes
7
Tail
3
Leaf
8
Twig
4
Moss
9
Tooth
5
Paw
10
Whisker
MAGICAL ITEMS AND EQUIPMENT 
OF THE SQUIRREL-FOLK
I hurled the enchanted acorn to the ground. There was 
a terrific flash of light and an odd popping sound, and 
the acorn was replaced by . . . an acorn. I looked at 
my Ratatosk companion and said, “So it’s a nut that 
magically makes a nut?”
—Lucano Volpe
With the secrets and whispers of the planes at their 
disposal, the ratatosk are quite familiar with powerful 
magic. Indeed, those seeking a particular item often 
consult the ratatosk. Yet with a few exceptions, the 
squirrel-folk themselves rely more on their own 
cunning supported by single-use items. A few magic 
items common to the ratatosk are described below.
CHAOS ACORN
Wondrous item, very rare (requires attunement)
This acorn was harvested from a branch of the World 
Tree growing in a chaotic area of the void. A sheen of 
ever-changing colors decorates its smooth surface.
You can use an action to eat the acorn. Doing so 
triggers a chaos magic surge. Roll percentile dice and 
consult the chaos magic surge table (see Deep Magic). 
If the result of the roll specifies a target, such as “the 
target of your spell or ability,” then the effect targets a 
random creature you can see within 60 feet. The GM 
has final say on how the rolled result functions. 
The chaos acorn appears in your pocket, 
whole and unconsumed, after a long rest.
CLOAK OF SQUIRRELS
Wondrous item, rare (requires attunement)
This wool brocade cloak features a repeating pattern 
of squirrel heads and tree branches. It has 3 charges 
and regains all charges daily at dawn.
While wearing this cloak, you can use an action to 
expend 1 charge to cast the legion of rabid squirrels 
spell (see Deep Magic). The swarm of squirrels uses 
the statistics of a swarm of poisonous snakes, except 
that it has a climbing speed of 30 feet rather than a 
swimming speed. The swarm emerges from within the 
cloak and obeys your verbal commands for 1 minute 
before vanishing back inside the cloak. 
FEATHER TOKEN: WORLD TREE SAPLING
Wondrous item, rare
This tiny object looks like a finger-sized tree sapling. 
You can use an action to touch it to an unoccupied 
space on the ground. The token disappears, and in its 
place, a tree sapling springs into existence. Though 
only 2 feet wide, the tree stretches impossibly high up 
into the sky. The sapling lasts 1 hour before crumbling 
away. When you begin climbing the tree, after 10 feet 
you plane shift to a random location on Yggdrasil. 
GLIDECLOAK
Equipment
This finely woven cloak is fashioned from specially 
prepared Yggdrasil bark. You can loop your hands 
and feet into specially designed loops at the sides and 
bottom of the cloak to create a wing‑like surface to 
facilitate gliding through the air.
While wearing a glidecloak and falling, 
you can use an action each turn to glide 
half of your falling speed in the horizontal 
direction of your choice. Before striking 
the ground, a successful DC 15 Dexterity 
(Acrobatics) check negates any 
falling damage. 
The glidecloak 
has no effect 
if the falling 
distance is less 
than 15 feet. 
Cost: 200 gp

--- PAGE 9 ---
9
MIMWOOD ARMOR
Armor (medium or heavy, but not hide or chain), 
uncommon
Mimwood is a wood harvested from Yggdrasil and 
alchemically rendered as strong as steel. Armor made 
from mimwood is naturally resistant to fire but does 
not impart this resistance to the wearer. 
NIDHOGG’S TOOTH
Wondrous Item, very rare
This fist-sized serpent’s fang is carved from obsidian 
and is curiously cold to the touch.
You can use an action to place the fang in an 
unoccupied space within your reach or to throw it 
into an unoccupied space within 10 feet of you. Upon 
doing so, it burrows into the ground and vanishes. 
A tveirherjar (see Creature Codex) appears in an 
unoccupied space as close to where the fang vanished 
as possible. The tveirherjar is an ally to you, speaks 
all the languages you speak, and lingers for 10 rounds 
before disappearing. 
SKIPSTONE
Wondrous Item, rare
This small bark-colored stone measures 3/4 of an 
inch in diameter and weighs an ounce. You can use 
an action to throw it up to 60 feet. The first creature 
struck by, or that physically touches, the stone 
within the next 1d4 rounds must succeed a DC 15 
Constitution saving throw or be thrown forward 1 
round in time. The creature disappears, during which 
time it cannot act or be acted upon in any way. When 
the creature returns, it is unaware that any time has 
passed. After the stone is used, it crumbles to dust.
YGGDRASIL NET
Weapon (net), uncommon
This net is a ranged weapon woven from living vines 
cultivated from those growing upon the side of the 
World Tree. It functions as a normal net except it 
has AC 10 and 10 hp. Creatures restrained by the net 
take 3 (1d6) bludgeoning damage each round as the 
vines constrict. If the net is broken or cut apart, it 
heals 1d4 hit points each day at dawn as long as the 
remains of the net are kept in close proximity to each 
other. Magical healing functions normally on an 
Yggdrasil net.
SPELLS OF THE SQUIRREL-FOLK
Though they may not look it upon first glance, the 
ratatosk count clever and skillful spellcasters among their 
number. How could they not, living as they do in boughs 
of the World Tree? Still, as talented as their mages are, 
I confess that the squirrel-folk treat their spellcasting 
with the same level of flippancy as they do with all other 
aspects of life. Living among them is to be subjected to 
spell-caused pranks and jokes on a daily basis.
—Lucano Volpe
For the squirrel-folk, spells are spells. They do not 
bother limiting them to one class or another. The 
following spells are special to the ratatosk, and they 
only share them with those they trust. Spellcasters who 
learn a ratatosk spell must meet any level requirement. 
A ratatosk spell chosen by a spellcaster is considered 
to be a spell of the spellcaster’s class.
CONJURE ACORNS
1st-level conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
You create 1 pound of acorns on the ground or in a 
container within range. The acorns spoil if uneaten 
after 24 hours. 
GLIDE
Transmutation cantrip
Casting Time: 1 reaction, which you take when you 
or a creature within 60 feet of you falls
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, M (an unbroken leaf)
Duration: 1 minute
Choose 1 falling creature within range. A falling 
creature can move 5 feet horizontally for every 10 feet 
it falls vertically, up to a maximum distance equal to 
their normal speed.
GNAWING LEAP
1st-level evocation
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components: S, M (the teeth in your mouth)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You surround yourself with spectral gnashing teeth 
and leap through the air up to half your normal speed. 
Your leap does not provoke opportunity attacks, and

--- PAGE 10 ---
10
you must land within 5 feet of a target. Upon landing, 
you can make a single melee attack against that target. 
On a hit, the target suffers your weapon’s normal 
effects, and the attack deals an extra 1d6 piercing 
damage from the spectral teeth. 
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using 
a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the leap distance 
increases by 5 feet, and the extra damage dealt by the 
attack increases by 1d6 for each slot above 1st. 
HOST OF DIMINUTIVE HUMANS
3rd-level conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a stick figure of a human)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
While in a settlement, you call a host of Tiny human-
looking creatures to emerge from buildings, alleys, 
or sewers at a point you can see within range. The 
humans form into a swarm that uses the statistics of 
a swarm of poisonous snakes, except it has a speed 
of 40 feet and no swim speed. The host of humans is 
friendly to you and your companions. Roll initiative 
for the host, which has its own turns. The host of 
humans obeys your verbal commands (no action 
required by you). If you don’t issue any commands 
to the host, it defends itself from hostile creatures 
but otherwise takes no actions. If you command it to 
move further than 60 feet from you, or when the spell 
ends, the host disperses back into the settlement.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using 
a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the host’s poison 
damage increases by 1d6 for each slot level above 3rd.
VOLPE’S NOTE. The ratatosk were less than 
pleased to learn of the legion of rabid squirrels spell, 
formulated I believe by the mages of Bemmea. This 
was their, admittedly petulant, response.
QUIVERING TAIL
2nd-level divination
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a tuft of squirrel fur)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
You touch a willing creature and bestow the ratatosk’s 
innate twitchy senses. For the duration, the target 
can’t be surprised. This spell immediately ends after 
the first time it is used to negate surprise. 
SPEAR OF YGGDRASIL
2rd-level evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S 
Duration: Instantaneous
You call upon Yggdrasil’s might, and a thick tree root 
bursts from the ground beneath a creature of your 
choice that you can see within range. The target must 
make a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the 
target takes 4d6 piercing damage and is restrained 
by being impaled on the root. A successful save deals 
half the damage and the target is not restrained.
An impaled creature can use an action to remove 
itself (or a creature it can reach) from the root, ending 
the restrained condition.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using 
a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, you create an 
additional root that can strike another creature within 
30 feet of the initial target, and the damage from each 
root increases by 1d6 for each slot level above 2nd.
SQUIRREL-FOLK ORGANIZATIONS
“Spies? What do you mean, spies? Yes, yes, I know 
what the word means! I was just unaware you needed 
spies … what do you mean you also have monks?”
—Lucano Volpe
Though the ratatosk may seem to be carefree tree 
dwellers more concerned with their next celebration 
or game rather than any matters of importance, they 
all have their own needs and agendas.
Three ratatosk factions of note are listed below.
MADBRANCH CULT
Limbs of the World Tree reach into all of the planes 
of the multiverse, so it is not surprising that some of 
those extend into the Yawning Void of Ginnungagap. 
The Void taint spreads from these points of contact, 
shrouding the leaves in darkness and twisting the 
branches into ouroboros-like tangles. These areas 
also alter living creatures, and the ratatosk are no 
exception. Tainted squirrel-folk lose some small 
piece of themselves to Ginnungagap’s mind-bending 
unreality and become convinced of the need to open 
more of Yggdrasil up to the hungry reach of the Void.
Leaders, Organization, and Goals. The 
Madbranch, also called the Cult of Lyssa, is made up 
of Void‑tainted (see Midgard Worldbook) ratatosk 
and ratatosk warlords. The squirrel-folk afflicted

--- PAGE 11 ---
11
by this corruption usually manifest Void taint as 
mental conditions rather than physical ones, though 
fleshwarping is not unheard of. They hold secret rituals 
to call upon the Great Old Ones in whispered Void 
Speech. In general, the madbranchers work to open 
void portals in remote locations of the World Tree, so 
the Void taint can spread unnoticed. The cult works in 
secret, living among ratatosk communities and slowly 
spreading the Void’s corruption through offers of 
power, infected dreams, and the lure of knowledge. 
Individual madbranchers all gain some ability to 
channel Void Magic and are able to cast the crushing 
curse and word of misfortune cantrips (see Deep 
Magic). The few individuals who are liberated from 
the cult, without becoming hopelessly insane, and 
cleansed via greater restoration spells lose their ability 
to cast Void Magic. 
Notable Members. Nullmistress Lighteater (CE 
ratatosk void speaker) runs the largest sect of the Cult 
of Lyssa from a hidden enclave within the ratatosk city 
of Grenstad. She works to subtly corrupt the members 
of the Squirrel Court. Grey Chiv (NE ratatosk warlord) 
wanders the length of the World Tree searching for 
new pools of Void, so he might nurture the corruption. 
ORDER OF THE ACORN
The ratatosk monks of the Order of the Acorn seek 
to unlock the power inherent in the bond they share 
with the World Tree. While not religious in nature, 
the order does acknowledge the gods while venerating 
Yggdrasil itself. The order is run by a council of the 
oldest and most powerful monks, all of whom bear 
the title farfar (or grandfather), under the leadership 
of Master Aldsta. Members of the Order of the Acorn 
also believe it is their task to safeguard the World Tree 
no matter where it resides and as such are the bitter 
foes of the Madbranch Cult.
Joining the Order of the Acorn. Full membership in 
the Order of the Acorn is limited to ratatosk, though 
non-squirrel-folk can petition one of the farfars to 
become an umgas (or companion). Some farfars 
require petitioners to complete a quest (determined by 
the GM) or donate some needed relic or magic item. 
Once your petition is accepted, the next time you 
gain an ability score improvement, you may choose 
to limit this bonus to a +1 increase to a single ability 
score (instead of the usual options), and in return 
gain 1 ki point and the War Chatter class feature (see 
below). If you have levels in another class that grants 
ki, these points stack. Otherwise, they function as a 
monk’s ki points.
New Class Feature: War Chatter. As a bonus action, 
you can spend 1 ki point to utter the chittering battle 
cry of the ratatosk. Each foe within 15 feet that can 
hear you must succeed on a Charisma saving throw 
(DC 8 + your Charisma modifier + your proficiency 
bonus) or have disadvantage on all attack rolls until 
the start of your next turn.
SHADOWTAILS
This covert organization of elite ratatosk operatives 
uses the collected information commonly shared 
among the squirrel-folk to identify threats to the 
World Tree and eliminate them. Although knowledge 
of the Shadowtails as a group of spies is a poorly kept 
secret among the ratatosk, the organization’s darker 
function is generally not known. 
Leaders, Organization, and Goals. Shadowtails 
operate under the direct supervision of Queen 
Clarahekkarina and make use of a large variety of 
magical items to aid them in their assignments. Within 
the Shadowtails are two main factions. The seekers are 
their “eyes” and excel in covert insertions, information 
gathering, and subterfuge. They venture into other 
planes to spy on potential threats. When threats to 
Yggdrasil are identified, the seekers turn the operation 
over to the hunters. The hunters embody the “teeth” 
of the organization and hunt down or assassinate the 
threats pinpointed by the seekers. Their preferred 
method is to use stealth and poison to avoid outright 
combat as this allows them to eliminate foes far more 
powerful than themselves.
Notable Members. Master Vrip (CG ratatosk) runs 
the shadowtails on behalf of the queen. The success 
of the organization is largely due to his leadership, 
though he has failed to realize his beloved wife Slarra 
is secretly the leader of the Madbranch Cult.
SQUIRREL-FOLK OF MIDGARD
It is quite simple to spot a ratatosk living in Midgard. If 
you see a squirrel, ask yourself one of these questions. 
Is it wearing armor? Jewelry? Is it carrying a weapon 
or a wand? Is the fur of its tail braided in beautiful 
patterns? Is it stealing some object of value from you? If 
the answers to any of these questions is yes, then it is a 
ratatosk and not a squirrel.
—Lucano Volpe
Few in number, the ratatosk dwelling on Midgard 
represent some of the best (and worst) of their race. 
Some are traditional and guard World Trees or guide 
travelers. Others disdain the expected role society 
thrusts upon them and seek to forge their own paths.

--- PAGE 12 ---
12
ALVA FROSTPAW
Obsessive olfactory collector
Background. This fierce ratatosk lives among the 
branches of Wotan’s Tree in Trollheim where she 
regularly feuds with the local ravenfolk population. 
Alva guides anyone to Yggdrasil who meets her fee of 
exotic beverages, yet she is a collector, not an imbiber, 
and dislikes the taste of alcohol. Alva’s love is the 
scent of beverages, the stranger the better. She keeps 
her “hoard” in her fortified den carved halfway up 
the World Tree. 
Stats. Use ratatosk (see Tome of Beasts) but add the 
following new action: 
•	 Intoxicating Flask (Recharge 5–6). Alva throws 
a flask of volatile liquor at a point within 30 feet. 
The flask explodes in a 15-foot radius. Creatures 
in the area must succeed on a DC 14 Dexterity 
saving throw or take 24 (7d6) poison damage and 
be poisoned for 1 minute. On a successful save, 
they take half damage and are not poisoned. A 
poisoned creature repeats the saving throw at 
the end of each of its turns, ending the poisoned 
condition on a success. 
CHURRIT THE DESTROYER
Arrogant bully
Background. Churrit the Destroyer always insists 
that his whole name be used when addressing him. 
As one of Beloved Leader Braagezz’s enforcers, the 
ratatosk warlord occupies a favored position among 
the goblins of the Wasted West. Whispers suggest 
Churrit led Braagezz to the Ankeshelian vault where 
she acquired her ancient technology.
Stats. Use ratatosk warlord (see Creature Codex) but 
add a custom Ankeshelian disruptor (see Warlock 10: 
Magocracies).
•	 Disruptor (Recharges 5–6). Ranged Weapon 
Attack: +7 to hit, range 100/300 ft., one target. Hit: 
27 (6d8) force damage and all creatures within 10 
feet of impact (including the target) must succeed 
on a DC 13 Strength saving throw or fall prone.
KEERTHI CLEVERSONG
Contemplative martial artist
Background. Keerthi lives in an uneasy alliance with 
Ruomu, an awakened World Tree sapling in the far 
reaches of the Brilliant East. She bribes the massive 
mulberry treant with fine poetry and song to allow 
travelers access. The silver furred squirrel-folk follows 
the teachings of the Eastern philosopher Laoshi and 
his “Five Steps” to enlightenment.
Stats. Use ratatosk (see Tome of Beasts) but add the 
following: Keerthi has 2 ki points that she regains 
when she takes a short or long rest. These points 
power her martial art abilities.
•	 Flowing Dragon Strike (1 ki point). As part of a 
successful gore attack, Keerthi forgoes the normal 
damage and effect of the gore to instead deal 14 
(4d6) of a damage type of her choice (acid, cold, 
fire, lightning, or poison).
•	 Locust Avoids the Sparrow (1 ki point). As a 
bonus action, Keerthi spends 1 ki point to become 
more elusive until the start of her next turn. When 
an enemy targets Keerthi with an attack while 
she is elusive, she can move up to 10 feet. If this 
movement takes Keerthi out of range of the attack, 
the attack misses. This movement doesn’t provoke 
opportunity attacks.
LUTALO FLITWHISKER
Spy for the serpent queen
Background. Lutalo guards Mamiwata’s Mangrove, a 
massive tree growing in the middle of the Selwheyha 
River Delta in Lignas. He will allow access to groups 
of climbers in return for magic items of uncommon 
or greater rarity. Secretly, Lutalo acts as a spy for the 
Lady of Vipers. 
Stats. Use ratatosk warlord but add resistance to 
poison damage and a cape of the mountebank. 
NANJA SANDTOOTH
Sneakthief stylist
Background. A ratatosk with pale fur, Nanja can 
be found most often at the Menatayni Oasis in the 
Crescent Desert. For a small fee of gaudy clothing, she 
guides travelers up the towering Palm of the Sheikh 
and onto Yggdrasil. Nanja travels across Nuria Natal, 
sneaking into tombs to dress interred mummies in 
fashionable outfits from her collection. She believes she 
performs a much-needed service to the dead because, 
“they look so sad with their decayed clothing!”
Stats. Use ratatosk but add a burrow speed of 10 feet 
and proficiency with thieves’ tools.
TURATUP FARSTEP
Devoted murderer
Background. Twisted and merciless, Turatup devotes 
himself to Karakhune the god of portals, otherwise 
known as Hune the Doorlord, by cleansing magical 
pathways with blood. He believes those who use 
magical portals and roads despoil Karakhune’s

--- PAGE 13 ---
13
creation and must be punished. Occasionally he will 
trade his encyclopedic knowledge of magical portals 
and paths, but his price is high.
Stats. Use ratatosk  but replace the normal spells 
with the following:
•	 At Will: crushing curse* (2d6 damage), knock, 
thaumaturgy
•	 1/day each: locate object, tree stride**
•	 3/day each: dimensional shove*, time step*
(*) see Deep Magic
(**) this spell functions using doors instead of 
trees at the GM’s discretion
THREE ADVENTURE SEEDS
How active are ratatosk on Midgard? Well, that’s quite 
hard to say. What is one more squirrel among the 
hundreds or thousands our eyes disregard each day?
—Lucano Volpe
Listed below are but a few possibilities for adventures 
that feature the squirrel-folk.
A GREMLIN IN THE WORKS (BLOOD KINGDOM)
Sabotage rocks the construction site of the new 
Blood Cathedral to Marena in Varshava. Built upon 
the razed site of an older temple to Wotan, the 
new cathedral symbolizes the power of the Blood 
Kingdom. However, over the last month, an increasing 
rise of accidents and missing supplies has exploded 
into outright destruction and assassination. The 
hidden cause of the disruption is Yggdrasil’s Thistle, a 
band of ratatosk hunting for a living World Tree seed 
located somewhere in the charred roots of the dead 
tree at the heart of Wotan’s ruined temple.
How the PCs Get Involved
Aiding the Underground. By diverse means, the PCs 
receive a call for help from Vikkic Wavetail, a ratatosk 
of high renown. She begs the heroes to aid her friend 
Orrvr Toothchip in his sabotage activities at the Blood 
Cathedral and work with the ratatosk to recover the 
World Tree seed. Orrvr is one of the few survivors 
of the original attack on Wotan’s temple and the 
burning of the World Tree. However, the scarred and 
nightmare plagued ratatosk hides a traitorous secret 
allegiance with the shadow fey.
Wotan’s Revenge. The respected priestess of Wotan, 
Zosia Walerska, reaches out to the PCs, desperate to 
strike a blow against the followers of the Red Goddess 
for desecrating the temple. She has learned of the 
sabotage of the Cathedral and wishes the heroes to 
secure an alliance with whomever is responsible.
THE STONE HEART HEIST 
(HIGH JUNGLES, SOUTHLANDS)
The race is on to recover the Lalob Key and unlock 
a treasure hidden within an ancient World Tree 
stump. The city of Nangui is a dark, wondrous city 
built around the Stone Heart, a petrified remnant of a 
once mighty World Tree. Deep within the stone-like 
tree, twisting organic passages lead to Stone Heart’s 
slumbering core. Here, ancient ratatosk hid one of 
their most precious treasures, Wotan’s Tear. This 
legendary artifact, in the form of a shining golden 
acorn, absorbed the tears the one-eyed god shed while 
hanging from Yggdrasil, and is said to bestow divine 
wisdom. The first wrinkle is accessing the warren of 
passages within the Stone Heart, as it requires the 
Lalob Key, a druidic device lost during the rise of the 
Green Walker. The second wrinkle is that the PCs are 
not the only ones searching for the relic! 
How the PCs Get Involved
Team Druid. Ufuoma Malangu, a Kushite druid, 
recruits the PCs to secure the Lalob Key from the 
dwarven ruins of Haldaheim. Once they have the key, 
they must slip through the defenses of the lich king, 
Nulu Nagoa, and enter the Stone Heart. Within the 
World Tree stump, ancient defenders and demonic 
invaders prove to be obstacles, but the greatest 
challenge comes from the two other groups trying to 
block the heroes at every turn.
Team Ratatosk. Nanja Sandtooth, or one of the 
other ratatosk on Midgard, hires the PCs to aid the 
squirrel-folk in recovering Wotan’s Tear before it falls 
into the wrong hands. Their first task is to secure the 
Lalob Key from Haldaheim. Then they must brave the 
ancient defenders and demons within Stone Heart to 
reach the core of the petrified World Tree before the 
other two teams do. 
Team Sorcerer. The immortal eye of Nulu Nagoa 
turns to the treasure resting in the World Tree stump 
beneath his palace. The PCs can earn a fabulous 
treasure in magic items from the lich king’s treasury 
if they recover Wotan’s Tear for Nulu Nagoa. First 
though, they must seize the Lalob Key from the vertical 
dungeon of Haldaheim and venture within the Stone 
Heart. Overcoming ancient defenders and demons 
could be tricky, but so too are the machinations of the 
other two teams racing for the prize!

--- PAGE 14 ---
14
WEBS IN THE WITCH TREE 
(EASTERN MIDGARD, BELDESTAN) 
The corruption of Leng invades the massive, miles‑tall 
banyan World Tree in the plains to the south of 
Beldestan. Chief among the diverse inhabitants of 
the Witch Tree stands the Monkey King, the earthly 
avatar of Monkey, the trickster god. The Monkey 
King, his vanaran followers, and their ratatosk allies 
struggle against a host of arachnid invaders sent from 
the Spiders of Leng, who arrived on the World Tree 
via portals from the forbidden plateau. The spiders 
enslave captured vanarans, transporting them back to 
Leng for processing. Recently, this included the young 
demigod daughter of the Monkey King! 
How the PCs Get Involved
Escaping Leng’s Web. Arachnid infiltrators gather 
slaves from across Midgard, transporting their 
“acquisitions” through portals to a new redoubt in 
the branches of the Witch Tree in Beldestan. When 
the PCs fall prey to the slavers, they find themselves 
imprisoned in the slave pits of the Spiders of Leng. 
Escape would be challenging enough, but with the 
young vanara daughter of the Monkey King dying 
from spider poison and an elderly ratatosk warlord in 
tow, it becomes a desperate race against time.
Rescuing the Princess. Contacted by a druid in league 
with the Monkey King, the PCs travel to the Witch 
Tree to aid the vanara against the Spiders of Leng, only 
to witness the capture of Princess Mejaa by arachnid 
slavers. Pursuing the captors, the heroes enlist the aid 
of a ratatosk scout to venture into the stronghold of 
the spiders and race to board a Leng voidship before it 
departs. Rescuing the young demigoddess may prove to 
be much easier than trying to pilot an organic voidship, 
plummeting toward the ground! 
NEW SQUIRREL-FOLK VARIANTS
Consider, even the untrained ratatosk can hold their 
own in a conflict. Now, I want you to imagine a 
squirrel-folk trained to be an assassin.
—Lucano Volpe
With the knowledge of the planes quite literally at 
their claw-tips, it comes as no surprise that ratatosk 
have a wide variety of skills and abilities.
CITIZENS OF THE WORLD TREE
The ratatosk presented in the Tome of Beasts 
represents a squirrel-folk trained to travel the 
pathways of Yggdrasil and is the one most often 
encountered by PCs. However, a sizable portion of the 
ratatosk community is made of squirrel-folk who tend 
the fungus farms, run shops, craft items, or otherwise 
stay within the bounds of their villages. 
Ratatosk Commoner
Tiny celestial, chaotic neutral
ARMOR CLASS 13
HIT POINTS 63 (18d4 + 18)
SPEED 20 ft., climb 20 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
4 (–3)	
16 (+3)	
12 (+1)	
15 (+2)	
10 (+0)	
15 (+2)
SAVING THROWS Wis +2, Cha +4
SKILLS Deception +4, Persuasion +4, Stealth +5
DAMAGE RESISTANCES bludgeoning, piercing, and 
slashing damage from nonmagical weapons
SENSES darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 10
LANGUAGES Celestial, Common; telepathy 100 ft.
CHALLENGE 2 (450 XP)
Innate Spellcasting. The ratatosk’s spellcasting attribute 
is Charisma (save DC 14). They can innately cast the 
following spells without requiring material or somatic 
components:
•	At will: message, vicious mockery
•	1/day: mirror image 
Skitter. The ratatosk can take the Dash, Disengage, or Hide 
action as a bonus action on each of its turns.
ACTIONS
Gore. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 1 piercing damage plus 7 (2d6) psychic 
damage, and the target must make a successful DC 12 
Wisdom saving throw or be charmed for 1 round. While 
charmed in this way, the creature regards one randomly 
determined ally as a foe.

--- PAGE 15 ---
15
REACTIONS
Desperate Lies. A creature that can hear the ratatosk 
must make a DC 12 Wisdom saving throw when it attacks 
the ratatosk. If the saving throw fails, the creature still 
attacks, but it must choose a different target creature. 
An ally must be chosen if no other enemies are within 
the attack‘s reach or range. If no other target is in the 
attack’s reach or range, the attack is still made (and 
ammunition or a spell slot is expended if appropriate), 
but it automatically misses and has no effect.
YGGDRASIL’S HIDDEN BLADE
Most hidden blades work in pairs and excel at 
infiltrating secure camps or structures, launching 
coordinated strikes at any who pose a threat to the 
World Tree. Others, however, break away from 
traditional ratatosk society and venture forth to make 
their way as hired killers. Hidden blade ratatosk 
typically have darker colorations either naturally or by 
the application of dyes distilled from acorns. 
Ratatosk Assassin
Tiny celestial, chaotic neutral
ARMOR CLASS 14
HIT POINTS 63 (18d4 + 18)
SPEED 20 ft., climb 20 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
4 (–3)	
18 (+4)	
12 (+1)	
17 (+3)	
10 (+0)	
18 (+4)
SAVING THROWS Wis +5, Cha +7
SKILLS Deception +7, Persuasion +7, Stealth +7
DAMAGE RESISTANCES bludgeoning, piercing, and 
slashing damage from nonmagical weapons
SENSES darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 10
LANGUAGES Celestial, Common; telepathy 100 ft.
CHALLENGE 5 (1,800 XP)
Evasion. The ratatosk assassin can nimbly dodge out of 
the way of certain area effects. When they are subjected 
to an effect that allows them to make a Dexterity saving 
throw to only take half damage, they instead take no 
damage if they succeed on the saving throw, and only 
half damage if they fail.
Innate Spellcasting. The ratatosk’s spellcasting attribute 
is Charisma (save DC 14). They can innately cast the 
following spells without requiring material or somatic 
components:
•	At will: minor illusion, true strike, vicious mockery
•	1/day each: longstrider, silence
•	3/day: disguise self
Pack Tactics. The ratatosk assassin has advantage on an 
attack roll against a creature if at least one other ratatosk 
is within 5 feet of the creature and the other ratatosk is 
not incapacitated.
Skitter. The ratatosk can take the Dash, Disengage, or 
Hide action as a bonus action on each of their turns.
ACTIONS
Multiattack. The ratatosk assassin makes two curved 
dagger attacks (melee or ranged) or one dagger attack 
and one gore attack.
Curved Dagger. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +6 
to hit, reach 5 ft or 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d4 + 
4) piercing damage. The target must make a DC 14 
Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the target 
takes 10 (3d6) poison damage and is poisoned. On a 
successful saving throw, the target takes half as much 
and is not poisoned. A poisoned target may repeat the 
saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the 
condition on itself on a success.
Gore. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 1 piercing damage plus 14 (4d6) psychic 
damage.
Psychic Strike (recharge 5–6). The assassin delivers a quick 
slashing blow to the mind of a single creature within 
30 feet. The target must make a DC 14 Charisma saving 
throw, taking 31 (9d6) psychic damage on a failed saving 
throw or half as much on a successful saving throw.
REACTIONS
Nimble Reposition. When a creature the ratatosk assassin 
can see hits them with an attack, the assassin can 
move up to their normal movement without provoking 
opportunity attacks.
WAY OF THE CLAWED ACORN
Utilizing secret techniques stolen from the Eastern 
Lands of Midgard, some ratatosk learn to harness 
the power of ki. The Clawed Acorn Order is a loose 
community of martial artists usually denoted by the 
braided headbands worn by members.
Ratatosk Monk
Tiny celestial, chaotic neutral
ARMOR CLASS 15 (unarmored defense)
HIT POINTS 87 (25d4 + 25)
SPEED 30 ft., climb 30 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
4 (–3)	
18 (+4)	
12 (+1)	
17 (+3)	
12 (+1)	
16 (+3)
SAVING THROWS Wis +6, Cha +6
SKILLS Deception +6, Persuasion +6, Stealth +7
DAMAGE RESISTANCES bludgeoning, piercing, and

--- PAGE 16 ---
16
slashing damage from nonmagical weapons
SENSES darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 11
LANGUAGES Celestial, Common; telepathy 100 ft.
CHALLENGE 7 (2,900 XP)
Ki Power. The ratatosk monk has a pool of martial power 
represented by 4 ki points. These points can be spent to 
activate their Martial Maneuvers.
Martial Maneuver. Once per turn, when the ratatosk 
monk hits a target with their unarmed strike or gore 
attack, they can spend ki points to add one of the 
following effects to the attack. Unless indicated, each 
maneuver costs 1 ki point. Succeeding at the saving 
throw listed for a maneuver negates the effect but not 
the damage from the initial attack.
•	 Apprehensive. The target has disadvantage on all  
attack rolls until the start of the monk’s next turn 
(DC 14 Charisma).
•	 Confused. The target is affected as if by a confusion 
spell until the start of the monk’s next turn (DC 14 
Wisdom).
•	 Disarmed. An object, weapon, or item held by the 
target is knocked 10 feet away (DC 14 Strength).
•	 Knockdown. The target falls prone (DC 14 Dexterity).
•	 Stun (Costs 3 Ki Points). The target is stunned until the 
start of the monk’s next turn. (DC 14 Constitution)
Unarmored Defense. While the ratatosk monk is wearing 
no armor and wielding no shield, their AC includes their 
Wisdom modifier. 
ACTIONS
Multiattack. The ratatosk monk makes two unarmed 
attacks or one unarmed attack and one gore attack.
Unarmed Strike. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 
ft., one target. Hit: 1 bludgeoning damage plus 21 (6d6) 
psychic damage.
Gore. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 1 piercing damage plus 14 (4d6) psychic 
damage, and the target must make a successful DC 14 
Wisdom saving throw or be charmed for 1 round. While 
charmed in this way, the creature regards one randomly 
determined ally as a foe.
REACTIONS
Kinetic Recovery. If the ratatosk monk begins a turn with 
no ki points and is hit with a melee or ranged weapon 
attack, the monk gains 1 ki point.
WORLD TREE BOUND WARLOCK
Many ratatosk believe Yggdrasil possesses a spirit, or 
a living energy, and worship it as a deity in its own 
right. Some, however, take this adoration further, 
fusing their souls to the World Tree with a binding 
pact. These fanatical squirrel-folk defend Yggdrasil 
from all threats, both actual and perceived. 
Ratatosk Warlock
Tiny celestial, chaotic neutral
ARMOR CLASS 17 (Armor of Shadows)
HIT POINTS 63 (18d4 + 18)
SPEED 20 ft., climb 20 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
4 (–3)	
18 (+4)	
12 (+1)	
17 (+3)	
10 (+0)	
18 (+4)
SAVING THROWS Wis +4, Cha +8
SKILLS Deception +8, Persuasion +8, Perception +4
DAMAGE RESISTANCES bludgeoning, piercing, and 
slashing damage from nonmagical weapons
SENSES darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 14
LANGUAGES Celestial, Common; telepathy 100 ft.
CHALLENGE 10 (5,900 XP)

--- PAGE 17 ---
17
Innate Spellcasting. The ratatosk’s spellcasting attribute is 
Charisma (save DC 14). It can innately cast the following 
spells without requiring material or somatic components:
•	 At will: animal messenger, message, vicious mockery
•	 1/day each: commune, mirror image
•	 3/day each: sending, suggestion
Invocations. The ratatosk warlock knows the following 
warlock invocations: agonizing blast, armor of shadows, 
mask of many faces, misty visions, and one with shadows.
Skitter. The ratatosk can take the Dash, Disengage, or 
Hide action as a bonus action on each of their turns.
Spellcasting. The ratatosk warlock is an 
11th-level spellcaster. Their spellcasting attribute is 
Charisma (spell save DC 16, 
+8 to hit with spell attacks). They have two 5th-level spell 
slots, which they regain after finishing a short or long 
rest, and know the following warlock spells:
•	 Cantrips (at will): eldritch blast, hobble*, minor illusion, 
pummelstone*
•	 1st level: hellish rebuke, 
twist the skein*
•	 2nd level: hold person, thorn cage*
•	 3rd level: dispel magic, phase bolt*
•	 4th level: banishment, 
power word: pain*
•	 5th level: hold monster, exsanguinate*
      * see Deep Magic
ACTIONS
Gore. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 1 piercing damage plus 14 (4d6) psychic 
damage, and the target must make a successful DC 14 
Wisdom saving throw or be charmed for 1 round. While 
charmed in this way, the creature regards one randomly 
determined ally as a foe.
Yggdrasil’s Wrath (recharge 5–6). Up to six creatures within 
60 feet that the ratatosk warlock can see must make 
DC 16 Dexterity saving throws as spear-like tree roots 
explode out of the ground beneath them. On a failure, 
the creature takes 28 (8d6) piercing damage and is 
restrained. On a success, the creature takes half as much 
damage and is not restrained. A restrained creature can 
use its action to make a DC 16 Strength check to free 
itself or another creature restrained by the roots.

--- PAGE 18 ---
18
WORLD TREE ENCOUNTER TABLES
Life here isn’t all nuts and bushy tails.
—Lucano Volpe
The squirrel-folk relish living dangerously, risking life 
and limb as they traverse the World Tree in search 
of their precious gossip. The tables presented below 
describe some encounters the PCs may stumble across 
if they brave the environs of Yggdrasil.
YGGDRASIL CANOPY ENCOUNTERS
High in the all-encompassing reaches of the World 
Tree, the vast causeway of branch and bough stretch 
out to touch the farthest planes.
d10 Encounter
1
Many a dancing foliage (see Tome of Beasts 2) 
force passing travelers to attend their year‑long 
celebration. 
2
A ratatosk runs up to deliver a summons from 
the Eagle in the Eyrie.
3
Two vine drakes (see Tome of Beasts 2) 
extort exorbitant tolls from travelers along a 
commonly used branch.
4
Squirrel-folk huddle in fear while an astral 
devourer (see Tome of Beasts 2) plagues their 
community.
5
In a sheltered bough, several oths (see Creature 
Codex) prepare a lengthy ritual to summon an 
avatar of Shoth.
6
A jotun (see Tome of Beasts) hangs inverted 
from a mighty branch, seeking to supplant 
Wotan.
7
A legendary item goes to whomever beats a 
thrill-seeking ratatosk at a wingsuit race.
8
A pod of void-touched ulnorya (see Tome of 
Beasts 2) hunt the upper branches, threatening 
all who pass.
9
Near the Eyrie, a two-headed eagle (see 
Creature Codex) permits access only to those 
with lore to share.
10
Spiders of Leng (see Tome of Beasts) hunt for 
workers to free their beached voidship in the 
branches.
YGGDRASIL TRUNK ENCOUNTERS
The vertical body of the mighty World Tree abounds 
with wooden tunnels, city-sized boles, and plateau‑like 
growths where all manner of creatures cross paths.
d10 Encounter
1
A war party of doom croaker ravenfolk (see 
Tome of Beasts) seeks to dislodge a new ratatosk 
settlement.
2
Several eldritch oozes (see Tome of Beasts 
2) guard a newly opened portal to a chaotic 
portion of the Void.
3
Children of Yggdrasil (see Creature Codex) 
protect a sprig that may become a new Midgard 
World Tree. 
4
The Magnificent Muck (see Warlock 9: World 
Tree), pulled up on a bank of the EverRiver, 
offers passage.
5
A party of kallikantzaros (see Creature Codex) 
work to cut down the World Tree.
6
Two ratatosk scouts spy on Baba Yaga’s Hut, 
where it perches sideways on the trunk.
7
A forest emperor (see Tome of Beasts 2) 
demands travelers play esoteric games to use a 
convenient portal.
8
Seeking celestial honey, a bearfolk (see Tome 
of Beasts) explorer contends with giant honey 
bees (see Tome of Beasts 2).
9
In a hidden bower, a young imperial dragon 
(see Tome of Beasts 2) guards a clutch of strange 
green eggs.
10
An ancient titan (see Tome of Beasts) of the 
Southlands sits in a hollow, juggling the divine 
sparks of his kin.

--- PAGE 19 ---
19
YGGDRASIL ROOTS ENCOUNTERS
The lowest reaches of the World Tree hide dangers and 
secrets in equal measures among the twisting roots. 
d10 Encounter
1
A misguided mead archon (see Tome of Beasts 
2) plagues an innocent deathcap myconid (see 
Tome of Beasts) community.
2
A ratatosk agent needs to spy on a meeting 
between a folk of Leng (see Tome of Beasts) 
and the Norns.
3
A delegation of satarre (see Tome of Beasts 2) 
carries gifts for Nidhogg as they journey 
to the wyrm’s lair.
4
The first Yggdrasil tosculi hive sends 
tosculi (see Tome of Beasts) scouts in 
search of an insectile relic.
5
The annual migration of millitaurs 
(see Tome of Beasts) threatens a new portal 
leading to the Arbonesse. 
6
A band of einherjar (see Tome of Beasts) seeks 
sacrifices to entertain Nidhogg.
7
Fate eaters (see Tome of Beasts) kidnap a 
ratatosk elder to extract critical information 
from him.
8
Valkyries (see Tome of Beasts) guarding the 
Well of Urd seek aid against spawn of Nidhogg 
(see Warlock 9: World Tree).
9
A void dragon (see Tome of Beasts) offers 
a contest of wit to win the prize of a potted 
Yggdrasil sapling.
10
A party of shadow fey (see Tome of Beasts) use 
petrified treants to build a new portal to their 
dark realm.
ODDITIES OF YGGDRASIL
Myriad are the trinkets and tokens found upon the 
World Tree, washed from the planes that nestle in 
Yggdrasil’s branches.
d10 Encounter
1
A worn and battered copy of the Kobold 
Chapbook, published in Zobeck.
2
An invitation allowing access to the annual 
Trespasser’s Club Gala in the Marketplace.
3
A jar holding a viscous black fluid in which 
miniature ever-changing stars twinkle.
4
A silver crown decorated with imperial dragon 
scales and archon feathers.
5
The severed and rusted head of a clockwork 
humanoid, still ticking faintly.
6
A half-empty wooden cask of mead from 
Valhalla, marked with the sigil of the Storm 
Court.
7
A bone key which unlocks a sealed workshop 
in the Evermaw’s Ossein Academy.
8
A glass orb containing a seemingly dormant 
sulfur rat from Urgennos in the Eleven Hells.
9
A carved ivory locket containing the dreams of 
a long-since deceased fey noble.
10
A humanoid drifts alone and seemingly lonely, 
forever searching for something forgotten.

--- PAGE 20 ---
20
THREE ADVENTURE PATHS
And so the time came to return to Midgard. The 
squirrel-folk, having grown fond of my presence, 
lavished me with gifts of food, strong drink, intricate 
carvings, and other treasures. With a heavy heart, I bid 
farewell to my hosts and began my journey. Somewhat 
true to form, upon reaching my home in Moredo, I 
discovered the ratatosk replaced my pack of fine shirts 
with one filled with leaves and acorns. One last prank 
from my furry friends.
—Lucano Volpe
Many adventures could benefit from the addition 
of a few ratatosk, either as a comedic side plot or 
as a method of relaying rumor, prophesy, or divine 
information. Below are three adventure paths 
involving the ratatosk and ready to be used in a 
Midgard campaign.
ONCE UPON A TIME ON YGGDRASIL
In which our heroes team up with the ratatosk to protect 
the World Tree from ambitious wizards and foul cultists.
APL 1–4
God-King Irsu Thanetsi Khamet seeks to use the 
mages of the Honorable Society of Portal Wizards to 
create a permanent Red Portal between Nuria Natal 
and Yggdrasil. The power and influence Khamet can 
garner with an unending supply of the rare flora of 
the World Tree knows no bounds. First, however, 
he dispatches agents far and wide to gather rare 
components for his Yggdrasil Door. Either running 
afoul of Khamet or acting to protect the World Tree, 
the PCs find themselves caught between ambitious 
portal wizards and ratatosk saboteurs.
APL 4–8
Nanja Sandtooth, ratatosk warden of the Menatayni 
Oasis, launches a bold plan to counter Khamet’s 
schemes. She sends the PCs onto Yggdrasil to 
infiltrate a wizard encampment and replace a crucial 
component for the Yggdrasil Door. However, the 
Harbingers of the Yawning Void also have plans for 
the magical gateway, and their own cultists work to 
further the cult’s ambitions. With no one to trust, 
the PCs must navigate a route to victory when open 
fighting breaks out. 
APL 9–12
Despite setbacks engineered by the ratatosk, the 
Yggdrasil Door nears completion. The only hope to 
protect the World Tree lies in racing the cultists to 
a buried pyramid deep in the Crescent Desert and 
launching a desperate raid on God-King Khamet’s 
burial place. 
A FISTFUL OF RATATOSK
In which our heroes struggle to keep the machinations 
of revenge-seeking ratatosk from manipulating two 
competing factions into causing an all-out war in the 
free city of Salzbach.
APL 1–4
While fighting over a rare artifact, the Company 
of Lorekeepers and the Lords Arcane accidently 
murdered an entire scurry of ratatosk. Seeking 
revenge, the relatives of the slain squirrel-folk launch 
a cunning plan to topple the entire city of Salzbach. 
The first stage in their scheme involves a series of 
attacks, assassinations, and sabotages designed to 
pit the Lorekeepers against the local Lords Arcane 
faction. The PCs enter the picture either as concerned 
witnesses or hired by one side or the other. 
APL 5–8
With bodies piling up on either side, the ratatosk 
tighten the screws, secretly hiring the lawless free 
mercenaries in the city to launch open attacks on both 
sides. The city descends into armed conflict while 
the PCs work to uncover the true culprit behind the 
ongoing attacks, but the hatred on either side blinds 
the various factions of the city. One possible lead 
brings the heroes to a network of smuggler’s caves 
outside the city, but the tunnels are one trap after 
another, engineered by the ratatosk.
APL 9–12
Civil war erupts in Salzbach with the abduction of both 
Guildmaster Swanne and Borin Hirsh-Dammung. 
The Lorekeepers, Lords Arcane, and the troops of the 
Hirsh-Dammung family fight pitched battles in the 
streets as the PCs investigate the kidnappings. The trail 
leads to the ratatosk lair where the squirrel-folk plan 
to sacrifice the two nobles to summon the avatar of an 
Old One to lay waste to the entire city.

--- PAGE 21 ---
21
THE GOOD, THE BAD, AND THE RATATOSK
In which our heroes aid three former friends—a naive 
minotaur, a disillusioned huginn, and an unstable 
ratatosk—on a quest for a fabulous lost treasure.
APL 1–4
Thirty years ago, three adventuring companions—
Trarx the ratatosk, Zashul the minotaur, and Grima 
the huginn—managed the impossible: they stole an 
immense treasure from the lair of Ekbaris, an ancient 
gold dragon and contemporary of Mharot the Founder. 
However, before they could spend their loot, they were 
captured one by one and imprisoned. The treasure was 
never recovered. Recently, Ekbaris perished, and the 
PCs are recruited by Trarx, now possibly insane, to aid 
him in a daring quest. The treasure of Ekbaris rests in 
a portable hole, folded and hidden in a statue. The key 
to finding the statue rests in three parts, each possessed 
by one of the three former friends. The PCs must first 
brave the besieged city of Chamiras on Kyprion, use a 
forgotten portal into the Minotaur Labyrinth, and free 
the child-like Zashul.
APL 4–8
Together, Trarx and Zashul possess two thirds of 
the key needed to recover the lost treasure, but the 
final piece is known only to Grima. She resides in 
the Prison Pits of Voggoth. The PCs, and their two 
employers, must travel deep into the Dragon Empire, 
but their progress is not unnoticed. Jabbir, the faerie 
dragon spymaster, also seeks the treasure of Ekbaris 
for his master, the Great Lord Satarah, and sends 
assassins against the heroes.
APL 9–12
With all three former companions in tow, the PCs 
now learn the location of the statue hiding the 
treasure. Racing dragonkin assassins to the necropolis 
beneath the city of Efesis, the heroes brave undeath 
and draconic threats only to discover the statue 
was seized by the new sultan years ago and now, 
unfortunately, stands in the great hall of the Sultan’s 
Palace in Harkesh. Can the PCs contend with the 
arguing and betrayal of the three old adventurers as 
they use a Midsummer’s gala to infiltrate the very 
heart of the empire to filch a treasure from the claws 
of the dragon?
RATATOSK PC STATS
The following details provide everything needed to 
create ratatosk characters. 
RATATOSK
Ratatosk are insatiable tricksters. Sharing gossip from 
across the planes, they delight in learning secrets and 
spreading those tidbits of information in mischievous 
ways. Resembling squirrels with sleek fur and small 
tusks, they form close matriarchal familial units called 
drays within larger communities called scurries. 
More adventurous ratatosk often act as planar guides 
and guardians, though it is not uncommon to find 
squirrel-folk offering their services as couriers, 
thieves, or even spies.
Ratatosk Names
The ratatosk make no differentiation between male and 
female names. These names tend to be short, but highly 
respected families occasionally add infixes like -ee- or 
-ekke- to create longer names. Ratatosk who dwell in 
other planes will sometimes take regional names.
Example Forenames: Chiringa, Daresh, Ekirp, Ekkitta, 
Kerasil, Najuta, Orrin, Skirekkeret, Tiptup, Turorri.
Example Surnames: Brightsong, Bristletooth, Flitpaw, 
Jumptwig, Silentleaf, Wisewhisker.
Ratatosk Racial Traits
Your ratatosk heritage is apparent in a variety of traits 
you share with other ratatosk. 
Ability Score Increase. Your Dexterity score increases 
by 2, but your Strength score decreases by 2.
Age. Ratatosk reach adulthood at age 10 and, due to 
their celestial nature, live up to 180 years.
Alignment. Ever curious and delighting in 
unpredictability, ekorre ratatosk gravitate toward 
chaotic alignments as they view laws as vague 
suggestions at best. The tradvakt tend to be slightly 
more focused and lawful in their thinking. Both 
groups tend toward good, placing value on doing 
the right thing, though some individuals lean more 
toward their darker impulses. 
Speed. Your base walking speed is 25 feet, and you 
have a climb speed of 10 feet.
Darkvision. You can see in dim light within 60 feet of 
you as if it were bright light and in darkness as if it 
were dim light. You can’t discern color in darkness, 
only shades of gray.

--- PAGE 22 ---
22
Grounded Celestial. You are descended from 
celestials, but you are strongly attuned to the mortal 
world. Though you are a humanoid, you are still 
susceptible to effects that target celestials. 
Sharp Tusks. Your sharp tusks are natural weapons, 
which you can use to make unarmed strikes. If you 
hit with them, you deal 1 piercing damage plus 1d4 
psychic damage.
Telepathic. You can speak telepathically to any creature 
you can see, provided the creature is within a number 
of feet of you equal to 10 times your level. You don’t 
need to share a language with the creature for it to 
understand your telepathic utterances, but the creature 
must be able to understand at least one language.
Languages. You can understand, read, and write 
Celestial and Common, but you speak via Telepathy. 
Subraces. There are two main ratatosk subraces. The 
wily ekorre and the brave tradvakt. Choose one 
subrace below and apply the listed traits.
Ekorre (Clever Tusk)
The ekorre are the image most have in mind when 
discussing ratatosk. Superficially similar to squirrels, 
they have sleek fur, often in shades of red and brown, 
and tiny tusks. These celestials dwell upon Yggdrasil 
and all its branches. Clever, egotistical, and endlessly 
curious, the ekorre carry messages across the planes, 
sharing information from individual to individual in a 
never-ending gossip network.
Ability Score Increase. Either your Intelligence or 
Charisma score increases by 1.
Size. Ekorre ratatosk are around 1-1/2 feet tall and 
weigh between 20 and 50 pounds. Your size is Tiny.
Blessing of Yggdrasil. You are attuned to the World 
Tree and can tap into its power. You know the message 
and vicious mockery cantrips. When you reach 
5th level, you can cast the mirror image spell 
with this trait. Once you cast a non-cantrip 
spell with this trait, you can’t do so again 
until you finish a long rest. Charisma is your 
spellcasting ability for these spells.
Diminutive Weapons. You can wield weapons with 
the light or finesse properties normally. You have 
disadvantage on attack rolls with other weapons, 
unable to use them effectively due to your Tiny size, 
and they are treated as two-handed weapons. You 
can’t use heavy weapons at all. A weapon specifically 
designed for ratatosk (or for other Tiny creatures at 
the GM’s discretion) are treated normally.
Tradvakt (Tree Protector)
The tradvakt, also called ratatosk warlords, believe 
themselves to be the guardians and protectors of 
Yggdrasil and the branches of the World Tree. Larger 
than their ekorre cousins, the tradvakt train from a 
young age to master weapons and battle tactics. They 
act to maintain order in their communities and stamp 
out dangers that threaten those settlements. 
Tradvakt who become adventurers do so for a wide 
variety of reasons. Some seek a more proactive way 
to combat evil before it can threaten the World Tree. 
Others simply wish to prove their martial skills. No 
matter the reason, tradvakt will rise to any challenge. 
Ability Score Increase. Your Constitution score 
increases by 1.
Size. A typical tradvakt stands between 2 and 3 feet 
tall, weighing from 60 to 100 pounds. Some massive 
ratatosk warlords reach a towering 3-1/2 feet. Your 
size is Small.
War Chatter. Your constant chittering distracts your 
opponents. As a bonus action, a non-ratatosk creature 
within 30 feet that can hear you must succeed on a 
Charisma saving throw or have disadvantage on its 
attack rolls until the start of your next turn. The DC 
of the save equals 8 + your proficiency bonus + your 
Constitution bonus. Once you use this 
trait, you can’t use it again until 
you finish a short or long rest.

--- PAGE 23 ---
©2021 Midgard and the Kobold Press logo are trademarks of Open Design.
VENTURE FORTH IN A
VENTURE FORTH IN A
DARK WORLD OF DEEP MAGIC
DARK WORLD OF DEEP MAGIC
The Midgard Campaign Setting is here! Now all it needs is heroes—to discover its wonders, 
battle its horrors, and forge new legends in a dark world of deep magic for 5th Edition Fantasy.
BY DAN DILLON, RICHARD GREEN, AND CHRIS HARRIS
TM
TM
HEROES HANDBOOK
DGARD HEROES HANDBOOK
MIDGARD WORLDBOOK
Inspired by the myths and folklore of Eastern 
and Central Europe! In the north the giants 
prepare for Ragnarok, while the goblins in 
the west grow restless and the shadow of the 
vampire princes falls across the east. The World 
Serpent is stirring, and not even allknowing 
Baba Yaga can say what will happen next…
MIDGARD HEROES HANDBOOK
Everything you need to create a hero ready for 
adventure in Midgard, with details on races, 
variants, archetypes, and backgrounds—plus 
new cleric domains, weapons and equipment, 
and Deep Magic spells and traditions.
TM
WORLDBOOK
WORLDBOOK
WORLDBOOK
WORLDBOOK
BY WOLFGANG BAUR AND RICHARD GREEN
TM

--- PAGE 24 ---
OPEN GAME LICENSE Version 1.0a
The following text is the property of Wizards of the Coast, Inc. 
and is Copyright 2000 Wizards of the Coast, Inc (“Wizards”). All 
Rights Reserved.
1. Definitions: (a)”Contributors” means the copyright and/or 
trademark owners who have contributed Open Game Content; 
(b)”Derivative Material” means copyrighted material including 
derivative works and translations (including into other computer 
languages), potation, modification, correction, addition, extension, 
upgrade, improvement, compilation, abridgment or other form 
in which an existing work may be recast, transformed or adapted; 
(c) “Distribute” means to reproduce, license, rent, lease, sell, 
broadcast, publicly display, transmit or otherwise distribute; 
(d)”Open Game Content” means the game mechanic and includes 
the methods, procedures, processes and routines to the extent 
such content does not embody the Product Identity and is an 
enhancement over the prior art and any additional content clearly 
identified as Open Game Content by the Contributor, and means 
any work covered by this License, including translations and 
derivative works under copyright law, but specifically excludes 
Product Identity. (e) “Product Identity” means product and product 
line names, logos and identifying marks including trade dress; 
artifacts; creatures characters; stories, storylines, plots, thematic 
elements, dialogue, incidents, language, artwork, symbols, designs, 
depictions, likenesses, formats, poses, concepts, themes and 
graphic, photographic and other visual or audio representations; 
names and descriptions of characters, spells, enchantments, 
personalities, teams, personas, likenesses and special abilities; 
places, locations, environments, creatures, equipment, magical 
or supernatural abilities or effects, logos, symbols, or graphic 
designs; and any other trademark or registered trademark clearly 
identified as Product identity by the owner of the Product Identity, 
and which specifically excludes the Open Game Content; (f) 
“Trademark” means the logos, names, mark, sign, motto, designs 
that are used by a Contributor to identify itself or its products or 
the associated products contributed to the Open Game License 
by the Contributor (g) “Use”, “Used” or “Using” means to use, 
Distribute, copy, edit, format, modify, translate and otherwise 
create Derivative Material of Open Game Content. (h) “You” or 
“Your” means the licensee in terms of this agreement.
2. The License: This License applies to any Open Game Content 
that contains a notice indicating that the Open Game Content 
may only be Used under and in terms of this License. You must 
affix such a notice to any Open Game Content that you Use. No 
terms may be added to or subtracted from this License except 
as described by the License itself. No other terms or conditions 
may be applied to any Open Game Content distributed using 
this License.
3. Offer and Acceptance: By Using the Open Game Content You 
indicate Your acceptance of the terms of this License.
4. Grant and Consideration: In consideration for agreeing to use 
this License, the Contributors grant You a perpetual, worldwide, 
royalty-free, non-exclusive license with the exact terms of this 
License to Use, the Open Game Content.
5. Representation of Authority to Contribute: If You are 
contributing original material as Open Game Content, You 
represent that Your Con-tributions are Your original creation 
and/ or You have sufficient rights to grant the rights conveyed by 
this License.
6. Notice of License Copyright: You must update the 
COPYRIGHT NOTICE portion of this License to include the exact 
text of the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any Open Game Content You 
are copying, modifying or distributing, and You must add the 
title, the copyright date, and the copyright holder’s name to the 
COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any original Open Game Content you 
Distribute.
7. Use of Product Identity: You agree not to Use any Product 
Identity, including as an indication as to compatibility, except as 
expressly licensed in another, independent Agreement with the 
owner of each element of that Product Identity. You agree not 
to indicate compatibility or co-adaptability with any Trademark 
or Registered Trademark in conjunction with a work containing 
Open Game Content except as expressly licensed in another, 
independent Agreement with the owner of such Trademark or 
Registered Trademark. The use of any Product Identity in Open 
Game Content does not constitute a challenge to the ownership of 
that Product Identity.
The owner of any Product Identity used in Open Game Content 
shall retain all rights, title and interest in and to that Product 
Identity.
8. Identification: If you distribute Open Game Content You 
must clearly indicate which portions of the work that you are 
distributing are Open Game Content.
9. Updating the License: Wizards or its designated Agents 
may publish updated versions of this License. You may use any 
authorized version of this License to copy, modify and distribute 
any Open Game Content originally distributed under any version 
of this License.
10. Copy of this License: You MUST include a copy of this License 
with every copy of the Open Game Content You Distribute.
11. Use of Contributor Credits: You may not market or advertise 
the Open Game Content using the name of any Contributor unless 
You have written permission from the Contributor to do so.
12. Inability to Comply: If it is impossible for You to comply 
with any of the terms of this License with respect to some or 
all of the Open Game Content due to statute, judicial order, or 
governmental regulation then You may not Use any Open Game 
Material so affected.
13. Termination: This License will terminate automatically if You 
fail to comply with all terms herein and fail to cure such breach 
within 30 days of becoming aware of the breach. All sublicenses 
shall survive the termination of this License.
14. Reformation: If any provision of this License is held to be 
unenforceable, such provision shall be reformed only to the extent 
necessary to make it enforceable.
15. COPYRIGHT NOTICE
Open Game License v 1.0a Copyright 2000, Wizards of the 
Coast, LLC.
System Reference Document 5.1 Copyright 2016, Wizards of the 
Coast, Inc.; Authors Mike Mearls, Jeremy Crawford, Chris Perkins, 
Rodney Thompson, Peter Lee, James Wyatt, Robert J. Schwalb, 
Bruce R. Cordell, Chris Sims, and Steve Townshend, based on 
original material by E. Gary Gygax and Dave Arneson.
Ratatosk ©2022 Open Design LLC; Author: Brian Suskind.