--- PAGE 1 ---
TM
TM

--- PAGE 2 ---
Product Identity: The following items are hereby identified as Product 
Identity, as defined in the Open Game License version 1.0a, Section 
1(e), and are not Open Content: All trademarks, registered trade-
marks, proper names (characters, place names, etc.), new rules, 
classes, items, virtues, backgrounds, places, characters, artwork, 
sidebars, and trade dress. Open Game Content: The Open content 
in this book includes material taken from the Systems Reference 
Document. No other portion of this work may be reproduced in any 
form without permission.
Published by Sophisticated Games Ltd, 3 Andersen Court, Newnham 
Road, Cambridge CB3 9EZ, UK and 
Cubicle 7 Entertainment Ltd,  Suite D3, Unit 4, Gemini House, 
Hargreaves Road, Groundwell Industrial Estate, 
Swindon, SN25 5AZ, UK
The One Ring, Middle-earth, The Hobbit, The Lord of the Rings, and 
the characters, items, events and places therein are trademarks or 
registered trademarks of The Saul Zaentz Company d/b/a Middle-
earth Enterprises and are used under license by Sophisticated 
Games Ltd and their respective licensees. All rights reserved. No 
part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval 
system, or transmitted, in any form or by any means, electronic, 
mechanical, photocopying, recording or otherwise, without the 
prior permission of the publishers. 
- credits -
Designed and Written by: Steve Emmott, Jon Hodgson, 
TS Luikart, and Jacob Rogers
Cover by Sam Manley and Paul Bourne
Art by Andy Hepworth, Jon Hodgson, Sam Manley 
Editors: Francesco Nepitello with Andrew Kenrick 
Graphic Design and Layout: Paul Bourne
Creative Direction by Jon Hodgson
Proofreading by Jacob Rogers and David Rea 
Based on The One Ring Roleplaying Game by 
Francesco Nepitello and Marco Maggi
© Sophisticated Games Ltd 2017  
© Cubicle 7 Entertainment Ltd 2017 
To find out more about Adventures in Middle-earth, and 
to subscribe to our newsletter, please go to: www.cubicle7.co.uk

--- PAGE 3 ---
- Introduction and contents -
Events Expanded 3
Chapter One offers a series of tables that 
provide ideas, inspiration and details for the 
entries of the standard Journey Event table.
Of Herbs and Stewed Rabbit	
3
An Obstacle	
3
Agents of the Enemy	
3
A Hunt	
4
Fine Spot for a Camp	
4
Lingering Memory of Times Long Past	
4
Place Touched by the Shadow	
5
Many Meetings	
5
Encounters on the Road 5
Chapter Two presents rules for generating NPC 
encounters on the fly or ahead of the game.
Time of day	
6
Weather	
6
Culture Chart	
7
Motivation Chart	
7
Expanded Motivations	
9
	
1. Merchants	
9
	
2. Itinerant Craftspeople looking 
	
for Work	
9
	
3. Servants of a Patron on a Mission	
10
	
4. Lost Scion	
10
	
5. Having Suffered Attack	
10
	
6. Hunters	
11
	
7. Herbalists	
11
	
8. Visitors	
11
	
9 Meeting their Fate	
12
	
10 Spies for the Enemy	
12
	
11. Survivors	
12
	
12. Naïve Travellers	
12
	
13. Scholars Seeking Knowledge	
12
	
14. Wardens	
13
	
15. Treasure Hunters	
13
	
16. In Pursuit of a Quarry	
13
	
17. Minor Nobles	
14
	
18. Travelling to a New Home	
14
	
19. Herders	
14
	
20. Common Folk	
14
Bones of the Earth 15
Chapter Three features ruins across Middle-
earth, and a system for generating them.
Creating a Ruin	
15
	
1. Who Built It?	
15
	
2. What was it Originally?	
16
	
3. What Does it Look Like Now?	
18
	
4. What is it Used For Now?	
19
Dangers Along the Way 20
Chapter Four provides the Loremaster with a 
series of pre-made enemy troupes to use during 
journeys.
Goblins and Wargs	
20
	
Blódolg’s Band	
20
	
The Army of Outcasts	
21
Trolls	
22
	
The Stone-troll Family	
22
	
Tarl’s Team	
22
Orc Warbands	
23
	
Morgul Vale Warband	
23
Spider Colonies	
24
	
Nightweaver’s Colony	
24
Battle Maps 25
Chapter Five offers two battle maps for camps 
along the road should they be needed.
Avoiding Battle 27
Chapter Six details an optional system for 
awarding Experience for avoiding battle with 
enemies, along with a system for adjudicating 
such wilderness evasions.
1: Instigate the Encounter	
27
2: Spot the Enemy Early	
27
3: Hide	
27
4: Fight or Flight	
27
5: Pursuit	
28
6: Rewards	
28
	
Wonders of Middle-earth 28
Chapter Seven presents suggestions on sights 
seen along the way, and expanded ideas for the 
Wonders of Middle-earth Journey Event.
Vistas	
28
Unusual Thickets	
28
Hollow Trees	
28
Waterfalls	
29
Fallen Giants	
29
Caves	
29
Mine	
30
Quarry	
30
Chasm	
30
Sinkhole Lake	
30
Lodgings Along the Road 30
Chapter Eight details places where a Company 
might break a Journey without sleeping under 
the stars.
Lodgings	
30
Poor Farmstead	
30
Rich Farmstead	
31
Roadside Inn	
31
	
Sights None Yet Have Seen 32
Chapter Nine provides options for awarding 
Experience on Journeys.
Dooms of Departure and Oaths of Return	
33
	
Dooms of Departure	
33
	
Oaths of Return	
33
“The Road goes ever on and on 
Down from the door where it began.”
It’s a dangerous business, stepping out your door, and not just because of the far-off places a traveller might end up, but 
also because of the dangers they’ll face along the way. Just as journeys play a central role in the adventures of Bilbo and 
Frodo, so too are they at the heart of Adventures in Middle-earth. The Road Goes Ever On is all about the adventures 
and encounters that a company might have along the way.
2

--- PAGE 4 ---
The Road Goes Ever On
 - Events -
Expanded 
 “It’s a dangerous business, Frodo, going out 
your door. You step onto the road, and if you 
don’t keep your feet, there’s no knowing where 
you might be swept off to.”
This section presents a series of lists of suggestions for the 
Loremaster, each corresponding to a Journey Event. Some 
of these events are detailed in separate chapters, in which 
case page references are given. The Loremaster should feel 
free to chose events or roll the appropriate die. 
The Journey Event table can be found starting on page 169 
of the Adventures in Middle-earth Player’s Guide).
1: A Chance Encounter - see page 5
2: Of Herbs and Stewed Rabbit 
1d12 (Animals)
1: 	 Wild pig/boar
2: 	 Goat/sheep
3: 	 Wild cattle/wild oxen
4: 	 Deer/roebuck/elk/
5: 	 Rabbit/hare
6: 	 Pheasant/grouse/partridge
7: 	 Thrush/quail/woodcock
8: 	 Swan/goose/duck
9: 	 Vole/squirrel/marten
10:	 Fox/bear/wolf
11:	 Fish: roach/salmon/bream/handful of 
	
minnows/trout
12: 	Wood pigeon/wild hen
1d12 (Plants)
1: 	 Wild garlic/wild onions
2: 	 Wild potatoes/turnips
3: 	 Blackberries/gooseberries
4: 	 Redcurrants/blackcurrants
5: 	 Blueberries/strawberries
6: 	 Chestnuts/hazelnuts
7: 	 Wild barley/wild oats
8: 	 Asparagus/mushrooms
9: 	 Rosehips/haws
10: 	Elderberries/birch leaves
11: 	 Dandelion roots/nettle roots
12: 	Duckweed/chickweed
For Herbs see page 154 of the Loremaster’s Guide.
3: An Obstacle
1d12
1: 	 Fallen Bridge
2: 	 Chasm
3: 	 Landslip
4: 	 Mud slide
5: 	 Burst riverbank
6: 	 Crags to descend
7: 	 Fallen trees
8: 	 Fast-flowing river
9: 	 Series of waterfalls
10: 	Peat bog
11: 	 Tangled undergrowth
12: 	Very steep inclines
 
4: In Need of Help - see page 5
5: Agents of the Enemy
1d10
1: 	 Spying Crebain
2: 	 Sinister Black Squirrels
3: 	 Bedraggled Wolves
4: 	 Goblin scouts
5: 	 Evil Men
6: 	 Half-orc spies
7: 	 Slavers
8: 	 Orc Warband
9: 	 Sinister Messenger
10: 	Disguised as innocent travellers/merchants
 
3

--- PAGE 5 ---
1d6 (Where seen)
1: 	 In the distance
2: 	 Shadowing the company
3: 	 Stumbled upon, in the midst of their shady business
4: 	 Fleeing back to their Master from some other encounter
5: 	 Overheard from the road
6: 	 Warned of by other passing travellers
 
6: Wonders of Middle-earth - see page 28
 
7: A Hunt
This event specifically covers game animals that are 
hunted, and of sufficient size to offer a feast.
1d10
1: 	 Unusually large pheasants
2: 	 Well-fed grouse
3: 	 Meaty wild ox
4: 	 Stout wild cow
5: 	 Large goat
6: 	 Plump sheep
7: 	 Huge boar
8: 	 Well fed deer
9: 	 Brawny elk
10: 	Huge salmon
 
8: Fine Spot for a Camp
1d10
1: 	 Sheltered clearing amongst trees
2: 	 In the lee of mighty boulders or crags
3: 	 A dry cave or hidden gorge
4: 	 A sheltered spot amongst old walls or tumbled, 	
	
	
ancient masonry
5: 	 A comfortable riverbank, or comfortable outcrop of 		
	
land in a lake or river bend
6: 	 Dry spot beneath huge banks of bracken or gorse
7: 	 A hidden clearing in a remote thicket/stand of birch/	
	
pine trees
8: 	 A hollow tree, the lee of a fallen tree, or shelter 	
	
	
beneath a huge pile of fallen tree limbs 
9: 	 A fallen-in barrow or collapsed, long abandoned 	
	
	
tomb 
10: 	Under an ancient dolmen or standing stone
9: Lingering Memory of Times Long Past
1d12
1: 	 A ruin (see page 15)
2: 	 Rotted remains of ancient tree houses
3: 	 Fallen statue
4: 	 Moss-covered, carved masonry
5: 	 Remains of an ancient mosaic or tile floor 
6: 	 The ancient remains of a once mighty ring fort 
7: 	 The footings of a once beautiful bridge, now long 	
	
	
fallen 
8: 	 Elves heading West in the distance
9: 	 A cache of ancient, decaying (and unusable) 	
	
	
weapons
10: 	A corroded piece of jewelry that still shows a 	
	
	
glimpse of brilliance 
11: 	 A cairn with a name carved onto a marker stone
12: 	A field of small burial mounds
Events Expanded
4

--- PAGE 6 ---
The Road Goes Ever On
10: Place Touched by the Shadow
1d12
1: 	 A deep pool of foul-smelling, tainted water
2: 	 A glade of twisted black thorn trees/black nettles/	
	
	
huge black thistles
3: 	 An ancient battleground littered with skeletons
4: 	 A ruined building or cave that shows signs of being 	 	
	
used as a prison
5: 	 A clearing with one or more Trolls, turned to stone
6: 	 A gully filled with Orc skulls
7: 	 Foundation stones of an ancient outpost of evil Men 
8: 	 A valley filled with carved stones that show 		
	
	
disturbing scenes
9: 	 An abandoned Orc-camp
10: 	A clearing where servants of the Enemy feasted on 	 	
	
horses
11: 	 An abandoned Spider’s larder, with desiccated corpses
12: 	A gully filled with fat, black flies
11: The Enemy is Abroad - see page 20
12: Many Meetings
1d12 (The Great and the Good)
1: 	 Gandalf
2: 	 Radagast
3: 	 Elrond
4: 	 Saruman
5: 	 Beorn
6: 	 Thranduil
7: 	 Elrohir/Elladan
8: 	 Prince Legolas
9: 	 A survivor of Thorin’s Company
10: 	Bilbo Baggins
11: 	 Glorfindel
12: 	King Bard
 
1d10 (Enemies)
1: 	 A warband of Uruk-Hai
2: 	 An overwhelmingly large group of Orcs 
3: 	 A horseman all in black, uncanny and terrifying
4: 	 An angry Giant, or number of angry Giants 
5: 	 A great swarm of Spiders 
6: 	 Trolls having a drinking party 
7: 	 A great swarm of Giant Bats
8: 	 A terrifying band of ghostly-seeming warriors 
9: 	 A warband of evil horsemen or raiders 
10: 	A Dragon
 - Encounters -
on the road 
 “What fun to be off again, off on the 
Road with dwarves!”
Some of the Journey Events suggest a meeting with a 
Non-Player Character, or group of NPCs. Given time, 
any Loremaster can come up with a good selection of 
encounters for the road, but there are occasions in every 
campaign when inspiration runs short, or there is an 
unexpected need for a group of credible travellers on the 
road. This section aims to help the Loremaster create a 
meaningful encounter from what might otherwise be a 
random happening.  You may wish to construct encounters 
by choosing thematically or dramatically appropriate 
elements from these charts, choosing not to roll dice. You 
should also feel free to ignore or re-roll any result once 
inspiration strikes.
Clichés have a purpose and pose a danger
Remember that travellers may display attributes 
and attitudes commonly associated with their home 
culture, or they may be very different than anticipated. 
Presenting encounters that cleave closely to established 
expectations can increase the feeling of inhabiting a 
familiar, shared idea of Middle-earth. It does also run 
the risk of being predictable and ultimately boring, 
and clearly that isn’t good for your game! When to 
present something familiar, and when to present an 
unexpected twist falls to the Loremaster’s ability to 
read what is needed at a given moment. 
There are plenty of surprises to be found in the texts 
themselves, not everything is as well known as one 
might think. Hunting down Tolkien’s inspirations 
for cultures, characters and events can let you dip into 
the same well, providing something which is familiar 
enough to promote the feel of the setting, while also 
adding something unexpected.
5

--- PAGE 7 ---
The nature of an encounter can vary depending on when 
in the day it occurs, and the prevailing weather conditions. 
Roll both on the Time of Day Chart and on the Weather 
Chart. Two results on the weather chart can be combined 
to make transitional weather. 
D6
Time of Day
1
Daybreak as the Company set out on the road
2
Mid-morning
3
As the Company break for midday vittles
4
 Mid-afternoon
5
Evening as the Company make camp
6
Night time as most of the Company rest
Weather
D10
Winter
1
Driving sleet
2
Pale silver sun
3
Thick freezing fog
4
 Torrential rain
5
Intermittent rain and snow
6
Howling wind, driven snow
7
Clear sky, crisp frost on the ground
8
A sky full of snow, with snow on the ground
9
Dim sunshine failing to melt lying snow
10
Snowstorm
Weather
D10
Spring, Summer, Autumn
1
Misty drizzle
2
Pale golden sunshine
Night: Scudding clouds across dimly twinkling stars
3
Dense mist, low cloud
4
 Persistent heavy rain
5
Sporadic Showers
6
Gusty wind and clear skies
7
Clear sky, bright golden sun
Night: Shining stars studding the black sky
8
Unmoving iron-grey clouds
Night: Pitch black night, without a glimmer of light
9
Rays of sun piercing heavy cloud
Night: A bright round moon visible through silver 
clouds	
10
Angry black clouds and rolling thunder
Next, roll on the following Culture Chart to determine the 
cultural origins of the travellers encountered. Each broad 
region of Middle-earth, which corresponds to a map in this 
set, has its own sets of cultures that might be encountered. 
Mordor is the exception to this, and is such a unique place 
that travellers encountered there are beyond the scope of 
this supplement. 
The Loremaster may wish to simply choose a culture 
that best fits recent events in the campaign, or reflects 
the region in which the Company are travelling. Note 
that while each of these cultures has an equal chance (or 
thereabouts) of being rolled, this Chart is not intended to 
reflect the demographics of Middle-earth. Encounters on 
the road are designed to be exceptional and worthy of the 
tale being told.
Loremasters should also feel free to prepare their own 
tables with an adventure-appropriate selection of cultures 
that match what they’d like to include. Such encounters 
(and possibly Audiences) can also be usefully generated 
in advance.
6
Encounters on the Road

--- PAGE 8 ---
The Road Goes Ever On
Culture Chart
Eriador 
(D8)
Wilderland
(D10)
Southlands
(D10)
Culture
1
Elves of the Grey 
Havens
2
Rangers of the 
North
3
Men of Bree
4
Dwarves of the 
Blue Mountains
5
Hobbits
6
1
Elves of Rivendell
7
2
Dwarves of Erebor
8
3
Dwarves of the 
Iron Hills
4
Bardings
5
Elves of Mirkwood 
or Lorien
6
Men of the Lake
7
Woodmen
8
Beornings
9
1
Men of Dunland/
Isengard
10
2
Rohirrim
3
Men of Minas 
Tirith
4
Men of Dol 
Amroth
5
Rangers of Ithilien
6
Men of 
Dorwinion
7
Men of Near 
Harad/The South
8
Men of Lebennin
9
Men of Lamedon
10
Men of Pelagir
Next, roll 1d20 on the following Motivation Chart, and 
look up the accompanying description.
Each description includes several choices for the Loremaster 
and some ideas for side-quests that might be provoked.
D20
Motivation Chart
1
Merchants
2
Itinerant Craftspeople on the Road for Work
3
Servants of a Patron on a Mission
4
Fallen Scion
5
Having Suffered Attack
6
Hunters
7
Herbalist
8
Visitors
9
Meeting their Fate
10
Spies for the Enemy
11
Survivors
12
Naive Travellers
13
Scholars Seeking Knowledge
14
Wardens
15
Treasure Hunters
16
In Pursuit of a Quarry
17
Minor Nobles
18
Travelling to a New Home
19
Herders
20
Common Folk
Some of the combinations that can be rolled might not 
make immediate sense - for example, Rangers apparently 
working as travelling merchants. Such results can either 
be rerolled if desired, or considered laterally: perhaps a 
group of Rangers have discovered a cache of trade goods 
abandoned on their patch and are looking for the owners. 
Or perhaps they have been gifted them by someone they 
helped and the Rangers are now seeking to trade them 
for more useful items. Perhaps the head merchant has 
Dúnedain heritage which she has rejected for a life of trade. 
Perhaps she’s in disguise? These unlikely combinations 
7

--- PAGE 9 ---
can generate a story and should be considered as just a 
springboard for your own creativity.
You may wish to combine more than one motivation to add 
further depth to your encounter. That decision depends on 
the pacing of your game: if your group of players enjoys a 
lengthy discussion with NPCs then by all means introduce 
this kind of depth. Alternatively if you judge your player 
group just wants to get to their destination then an 
encounter can be merely a fleeting one in a lonely land.
Aspects Common to All Encounters 
Many of the Encounter Motivations below share common decision points that can be used by the Loremaster to offer 
variety and interest. By combining the underlying answers to these questions in different combinations you can keep 
your encounters fresh and varied, as well as making use of them to drive the greater story of your campaign and the 
themes of the setting.
Big or Small? Is the encountered group a lone figure, or a group?
Prosperous or Poor? At what level of material wealth are the encountered NPCs?
Successful or Struggling? Are the NPCs doing well on the road, or are they suffering ill fortune?
Givers or Takers? Will the encounter offer the Company an opportunity to give aid or information, or receive it?
Typical or Atypical? Is it enough to use the title of the motivation as written, and the culture as one would expect? 
Will your players simply enjoy travelling alongside a gruff, pipe-smoking Dwarf with a big beard, or do they need 
something much more unexpected to make them sit up and pay attention?
Side quest? Will this encounter offer the chance to spontaneously embark on a new lesser mission? To right a wrong, 
or follow a treasure map?
Inspiring or Dismal? Will this encounter provide a heartening boost to the Company’s spirits, or will it remind them 
of the encroaching darkness and inevitable failing of all good things?
Echo or Seed? Will this encounter call back to something that has already happened to reinforce it in the story, or 
will it foreshadow something new, which will pay off later? Or is it an entirely random event that has no bearing 
on the past or future story?
Thematic Opportunities?: What will this encounter do to reinforce the themes of the setting, and what will it do for 
the tone of the quest?
Game Opportunities?: What will this encounter do for the state of the Company.
Crossing the Path or Travelling Along It? The Loremaster has the choice of sharing a fleeting encounter that 
might last just a moment, or a more sustained "encounter" that involves spending days in the Company of those 
encountered. Don’t forget to keep this varied.
Travelling together
A Company might decide to travel along with those they encounter. If the Loremaster deems it appropriate to allow 
it, and the encountered group agree, then working together with their new companions the Company should gain 
Advantage on an appropriate future Journey Event checks while travelling together. The Player-heroes are the focus 
of the game, so an NPC shouldn’t take checks on their behalf. But they can certainly assist, and this bonus reflects 
that, without making it too much the focus of a journey to find extra companions. It is entirely up to the Loremaster 
how long a group of NPCs will accompany Player-heroes on the road. Once they depart the bonus departs with them.
8
Encounters on the Road

--- PAGE 10 ---
The Road Goes Ever On
Each expanded entry offers a series of options or questions 
for the Loremaster to decide on and be inspired by.
Expanded Motivations
1. Merchants
Since the death of Smaug, more and more merchants are 
criss-crossing Wilderland on new trade routes. In Eriador, 
occasional bands of merchants and hardy lone pedlars 
wind their way between the ancient carved stones, bringing 
goods and news to far flung homesteads. In Gondor, 
prosperous trade to and from the great sea ports has always 
been the glue that binds the kingdom together. Or at least 
that’s what the merchants will tell you.
A merchant might be rich or poor. They might appear in a 
large caravan with armed guards, or they might be just one 
old woman with a small bag of goods to sell.
They will always have a destination in mind, but they 
might not have passed this way before and are determined 
to open up new trade routes. Others will stick to well-trod 
paths, the knowledge of which is handed down from 
generation to generation.
As travellers they are used to strangers, and often carry 
the news from settlement to settlement. Most are canny, 
wily fellows, but others seem to survive more on sheer 
luck and their good-hearted view of the world.
On lonely paths, merchants can easily fall prey to attack 
or misfortune. More experienced pedlars know of the 
dangers along their specific routes and are well-prepared 
for such. They might even help fellow travellers out with 
food or medicine (some may charge for their assistance). 
Other merchants might need aid themselves, having found 
themselves far from their usual paths.
A merchant may have set out in fine fettle, but be 
encountered in a terrible state. Or they might have come 
from a long patch of ill luck to be met just as their fortunes 
turn around. Perhaps the Company can help?
A merchant is someone with something to sell. This might 
not be their calling in life, it could be a single instance 
of having something to trade. Something which might 
lead to adventure. Something stolen, or something found. 
Something they know very well what it is, or something 
about which they have no real clue.
2. Itinerant Craftspeople on the Road 
for Work
Craftspeople often have need to be on the road. Perhaps 
they come from the itinerant Dwarven peoples who 
no longer have a place to call home, or are taking their 
specialist crafts from place to place, since no single 
settlement can support them forever. 
Artisans have need of supplies which are often sought 
out in the wild, or else they might be travelling to learn

--- PAGE 11 ---
new techniques from the masters of their craft. Other 
craftspeople transport their goods to market themselves, 
and having made a batch of goods take them on the road 
to their customers.
Some craftspeople are incredibly skilled, others barely 
competent at their calling. They might be affluent from 
their efforts, or they might be on the point of starvation, 
unable to find work.
Do they have their goods, raw materials and tools with 
them? Or have those been lost? Are they truly craftspeople, 
or merely travelling in that guise? Will the Company 
encounter them again in the future?
An individual or group might be temporarily filling the 
role of craftsperson. The travellers might be seeking a 
new source of supplies for someone else. They might be 
working for a craftsperson, finding tools or raw materials 
on their behalf. Perhaps a group of travellers is looking 
for a specific craftsperson who lives somewhere in the 
Wild, or has gone missing? The Company might encounter 
other folk who are temporarily in the role of craftspeople 
— Dúnedain building secret fortifications, or agents of 
the Elves of Lorien constructing a temporary flet (tree-
platform) for a night’s stay.
3. Servants of a Patron on a Mission
The Great and the Good (and indeed the less than Good) 
have need of servants who are able to travel. Such folk 
are tasked with taking messages or gifts to other lords, 
acquiring necessary goods or services, forging trade 
agreements or finding new opportunities, researching 
rumours or spying on rivals, collecting  news, requesting 
urgent aid or have been sent out into the world to 
accomplish the aims of their master. Whether they are well 
disposed to meeting fellow travellers is very much up to 
the Loremaster. Whether a friendly disposition is genuine, 
or a mask from behind which to gather information is also 
in the Loremaster’s hands.
A meeting with a servant might lead to a later introduction 
and chance to win a Patron. Conversely, if it goes poorly 
the Company might make a powerful enemy.
The servant of a Patron might need help with their 
mission, or might be able to offer help to Company if their 
Patrons are allied. Or the servant’s aid might require that 
the Company present themselves to that Patron in order to 
settle debts. A Patron might not be some powerful Wizard 
in a tower: they might simply be a village elder, or a chief 
among shepherds. Whether serving the high or low, an 
encounter with a servant is an excellent way to bring 
matters and individuals to the attention of the Company 
in order to foreshadow later use.
4. Lost Scion
Those denied their rightful heritage can, curiously 
enough, often be found on the Road or deep within the 
Wild. Perhaps the wilderness and lonely places of the 
world are suited to those denied their rightful place. A lost 
scion might be filled with determination and hope for the 
future, full of plans to prove themselves, counter the hand 
of fickle fortune and regain their rightful place. They may 
have abandoned their fate, either from dismay or stoic 
acceptance of the hand that they have been dealt. Such an 
encounter might offer the chance to cheer the dismal, or 
to join a cause. It might foreshadow a later encounter with 
the enemies of the scion, or it might be an opportunity to 
meet someone who later becomes great and powerful. 
How they are treated now might have great ramifications 
for the future.
A scion’s rightful heritage might be a whole kingdom, or 
it might just be the simplest of Hobbit holes. It might be a 
bag of silver spoons that can be regained this afternoon.
Perhaps the scion is unaware of their position, which will 
only be revealed later in the story. Or perhaps they are not 
a lost scion at all, and are merely a charlatan seeking a 
position to which they have no just claim. The Company 
may later realise they have aided a villain, and then strive 
to set things right. 
5. Having Suffered Attack
Middle-earth is a place fraught with danger for the 
common folk, and heroes need a chance to shine. The 
Company may encounter travellers of any kind that have 
found ill luck on the Road, or their journeys have brought 
them near ordinary folk who are in desperate need of aid.
Villagers from a raided settlement, wanderers beset by 
bandits, or travellers who have fallen foul of bad weather 
all need help. And helping others is the perfect opening 
to a side quest, or later reappearance. Alternatively the 
Company may be mistaken for the attackers, and treated 
very poorly. 
10
Encounters on the Road

--- PAGE 12 ---
The Road Goes Ever On
Who did the attacking?  Orcs are the obvious choice, and 
there’s nothing wrong with a good old Orc raid. As the 
years pass intrusions by the Enemy will grow in frequency. 
But there are other enemies in the lands of Middle-earth: 
Spiders driven mad by the piping of a strange girl in the 
forest, rival factions within the emerging culture of the 
Beornings, and ancient family feuds in the Bree-land. 
What can be drawn from past events in your adventures, 
and what seeds could be sown for the future?
6. Hunters
Gathering food is a neccesity of life, and it falls to the 
common folk to hunt for their subsistence. More powerful 
inhabitants of Middle-earth may hunt for pleasure. A 
hunt might be an everyday occurrence, or it might be 
undertaken in preparation for a great feast. Hunters are 
likely be very knowledgable about the local area, knowing 
where to find game, where old ruins provide shelter, 
where there are Spider nests, or strange muttering trees 
that should be avoided. They might share the fruits of 
their labour with the Company, or they might ask for 
help in catching some specific prey. Hunters may have 
noticed unusual events in the local area, and be able to 
give precise directions to them. They might be angered by 
a clumsy Company of so-called adventurers, laden with 
clanging equipment, blundering into their hunt.
Not all hunters are wily, taciturn woodsfolk possessed 
of ever-reliable rustic knowledge. Some are unsuccessful 
and desperate, and offer bad advice.
Hunting takes many forms, from catching boar with 
hounds, birds with hawks, jackrabbits with a sling and 
pebbles, or deer with a bow. The form the hunt takes will 
indicate something about the hunters - how affluent they 
are, what culture they hail from and so on.
What are the hunters seeking? Is it boar, deer and rabbits, 
or is it something else? Are the hunters supposed to be 
catching game in this place? Is this the king’s hunting 
grounds or is the wildlife protected by a Wizard? Or can 
they even speak, and respond poorly to being considered 
dinner? Will accepting the gift of game put the Company 
into the local folks’ debt? 
7. Herbalists
Finding the special herbs that can cool a fever, or mend 
wounds is a skilled business, and Middle-earth is not 
full of healing potions. An encounter with a wandering 
herbalist, or group of herbalists, might offer a Company a 
welcome chance to stock up on their supplies of medicinal 
herbs.  Alternatively, the promise of future healing supplies 
in return for aid might be an attractive side quest. Perhaps 
a Troll has moved into the vicinity of certain significant 
plants. Or maybe the herbalist stumbled across an ancient 
ruin riddled with tunnels as they sought out rare plants.
The traveller may be an itinerant healer, returning home 
having treated someone of great significance. Or perhaps 
they are en route to help a village beset by ill health. Not 
everyone met on the road is who they appear to be: the 
close access afforded by the herbalist’s art is the perfect 
cover for a spy of the Enemy. Or feeding strangers in the 
Wild foul medicine may be a way to steal their gold.
A herbalist is someone who specialises in seeking out plants. 
But they might not be collecting them to sell. Perhaps they 
simply wish to be amid the quiet places of the world, and 
admire growing things. They might know a lot about plants 
without ever picking them. They may be counted among the 
Wise of their village and a valued member of a community. 
Alternatively, they may be seen as a lazy outcast, who fears 
people and their harsh words.
8. Visitors
We know Middle-earth is a place that includes family 
life: there are birthday parties, feasts, weddings or other 
gatherings to sing old songs and tell the great stories; 
indeed there are coronations of kings! And so it is that 
travellers can be found taking to the road to attend all 
manner of family gatherings. This might be occurring in 
the next valley, or many miles distant. The visitors may be 
attending a joyous event or compelled to see a sad one to 
the end.
Whether the travellers are happy about being on the road 
is another matter. Whether they know where they are 
going, are well prepared for the road, or what they have 
seen along the way are all things for the Loremaster to 
determine in the service of their adventure.
Does someone know someone who knows someone who 
knows a Player-hero, or a member of their family? Is the 
Company invited to the event? Does the event need a 
special something that the Company can provide? Are the 
travellers going to the event to celebrate or take revenge for 
11

--- PAGE 13 ---
past slights? What might the Company learn about nearby 
settlements, or future Sanctuaries? Are the travellers on 
their way to the event full of expectation, or returning from 
it full of stories?
9 Meeting their Fate
The Company encounter one or more individuals 
travelling to the climax of their personal story. Perhaps 
they are settling an old score. Perhaps they are closing 
in on recovering a lost heirloom. Or perhaps they are 
en route to propose to the love of their life. Whichever is 
the case they are almost at the final scene of their tale. 
There may be an opportunity for the Company to become 
entangled in the tale…
 
10 Spies for the Enemy
The Company encounter, unbeknownst to them, spies of 
the Enemy disguised as some other kind of traveller (roll 
again on this chart to determine how the spies present 
themselves). This isn’t an encounter where their true 
nature is revealed, it is a seed that the Loremaster plants 
for later harvesting. The travellers will be curious to know 
everything about the Company. Whether they look fair and 
feel foul, or look foul and feel fair is up to the Loremaster.
11. Survivors
Not all travellers choose to take to the road. Some are 
forced onto it by fire, flood, strife, famine or plague. 
Victims of such ill fortune are often in dire need of 
assistance, but can also inspire with their resolve or 
dignity. Whether to break a journey in order to help the 
unfortunate, in spite of other pressing needs, can test a 
Company’s commitment to doing good. It can also be the 
opening to a whole chain of events as they undertake to 
establish, protect and nurture a new settlement.
Not all those who survive a disaster are dignified or of 
good character. They might well be angry and embittered 
by the turn their lives have taken. They might be in 
desperate need of things the Company possess, and be 
prepared to demand and then take them. 
The situation might not be morally simple: In Rohan they 
might be Dunlendings forced from their homes by the 
expansion of Rohirrim pastures. Further north, has King 
Bard’s reclamation of the Dale-lands caused problems for 
the folks who lived there when Smaug ruled the Lonely 
Mountain?
12. Naïve Travellers
Adventurers like our heroes take to the road in a state of 
preparedness - armed and armoured, with provisions 
and equipment that enable them to survive long days on 
the road. But not everyone who sets forth on the road 
is ready. Some head out ill prepared, and suffer grave 
misfortune. This encounter is a meeting with such naïve 
folk who intended to see the world, and found it a harder 
place than they had hoped. But not all is lost. Even the 
most bedraggled amateur might have seen something 
on the road that is of use to the Company. They might 
have brought something with them from home that the 
Company need. Or they may have evaded a threat that the 
Company have yet to encounter. 
A naïve traveller might be full of youthful fire, or an older 
person taking their last chance to see the world beyond 
their garden gate. Perhaps they have resolved to make 
a new start after their efforts at farming failed, or their 
family suffered an unfortunate fate.
The challenges of the journey might make them dismal 
company, offer a foreshadowing of the inevitable decline 
of all things. Alternatively, the traveller’s undiminished 
resolve to see out their travelling plans in spite of their 
current state might be inspiring, and the Company might 
make a friend who reappears at a later date, renewed and 
ready for new adventures.
13. Scholars Seeking Knowledge
Everyone knows that the Wild holds secrets. Places long 
abandoned hide secret wisdom, and a history long 
forgotten. There are those hardy souls who brave the 
trials of the Road to seek out ancient knowledge. Some 
do so for a love of learning, some seek a power that they 
believe the artefacts of ancient times can furnish. Others 
have a specific quest, a definite question to be answered 
by their searching of the wild places of the world. Scholars 
are of sundry kinds and means, but all seek something: 
the story of their family, the rediscovery of lost heirlooms, 
the answer to an ancient riddle, or the key to a forgotten 
language.
An unfortunate individual who appeared to harmlessly 
rant and rave about ancient runes in the streets of Dale is 
another matter to meet at midnight in an ancient ruin. On 
a less alarming note, meeting someone who has studied 
the local area for years might yield useful information to 
12
Encounters on the Road

--- PAGE 14 ---
The Road Goes Ever On
aid a quest. Such seekers of old lore might need assistance 
opening up an ancient tomb, or to have their findings 
taken to the nearest settlement. They might trade for 
supplies or appreciate the assistance of those not opposed 
to swinging steel in the name of discovery.
Scholars might be young and keen, or old and cynical. 
Either extreme might fall under the spell of the Shadow, or 
be quietly working to further the aims of the Istari.
14. Wardens
Some places are protected: unseen boundaries are 
patrolled by the folk who live nearby. Other times ancient 
places are quietly watched.
Those protectors of lands and people are not without 
needs — they sometimes must seek answers, supplies, aid 
or must pursue enemies. What have they seen along the 
way? What news of the wider world do they seek? Those 
who have travelled far from home might be lost. Perhaps 
the guardians have abandoned their duty altogether, 
and have a sad tale to tell. The protectors of a people or 
place might also be encountered in need of help; if their 
numbers have been diminished by attack or ill fortune 
they may need temporary assistance. 
15. Treasure Hunters
Knowing where ancient treasure is to be found is one 
thing; being able to retrieve it is quite another. The Wild 
is fraught with dangers, and those in possession of the 
knowledge needed to find treasures might not be able to 
win them. Whether this encounter is a fleeting one with 
a group ill-equipped to succeed in their lengthy quest for 
a Dragon’s hoard, or the start of a side quest into nearby 
ruins is up to the Loremaster.
Is the treasure map real? Are the ancient legends true? 
Whether the gold it promises is unplundered is open to 
exploration. Does the treasure have guardians? Whether 
the treasure-seekers will truly share the loot once it has 
been won is another consideration.
What to do with a hoard of ancient silver and gold once it’s 
been retrieved from a Troll’s cave can be a thorny issue. 
It’s heavy and highly desirable, and perhaps it is more 
trouble that it is worth (especially when the Troll returns 
and finds its treasure missing).
16. In Pursuit of a Quarry
Whether hunting fleeing criminals, raiders, Orcs or 
Wolves, or a kidnapped friend this encounter centres on 
those chasing a quarry. Is their pursuit a just one? Or a 
case of unfair judgement and cruel revenge?
Will this just be a story told by firelight, which may be further 
developed later in the adventure, or a quest the Company 
may briefly join right now? Is this a mounted pursuit that 
briefly crosses the Company’s path, leaving a mysterious 
object fallen on the road? Or are the pursuers rueing a 
lost trail or obscured tracks? Will the Company gain the 
13

--- PAGE 15 ---
favour of a potential Patron, or the enmity of a powerful 
adversary? Perhaps the hunters have already caught the 
object of their pursuit and are returning them to justice. 
Who is in the right? Should the Company intervene in a 
local matter? Are these really agents of justice, or are they 
kidnappers,or agents of the Enemy?
17. Minor Nobles
While meeting one of the truly great personages of Middle-
earth falls under the purview of a different Journey Event, 
there is still the chance to meet an important person on 
the road. They might be travelling with a retinue in good 
order, or they may be travelling alone having suffered some 
misfortune. Perhaps the notable is travelling in disguise as 
a short term measure, or they seek trusty allies with whom 
they can drop false pretences and share a cautionary tale.
Given their resources, truly affluent nobles might offer the 
chance for a long rest in their company, or may offer to 
restock the Company’s supplies in return for later service, 
or an immediate favour. They may have encountered some 
problem on the road with wandering servants, a lack of 
supplies, local bandits or Orcs. Perhaps the Company can 
offer assistance?
18. Travelling to a New Home
These travellers might be full of hope, or be in possession 
of a sad tale; either way they have taken to the Road to 
move to a new home. This could be due to problems where 
they previously lived, or at the invitation of a far away 
friend or family member. They might have heard tales of 
wonderful places to live now that Smaug the Terrible is 
dead. Lake-town, Dale and Erebor all offer wonders and 
new opportunities. 
West of the Misty Mountains, a simple farm-steader might 
give up their isolated croft for a house in Bree. Perhaps 
a recent letter has informed them of an inheritance they 
are travelling to claim. The grown children of a merchant 
family of Esgaroth might be sent to establish a new holding 
in the Vales of Anduin. A small Woodmen ring fort in the 
Western Eaves can only hold so many families. And the 
sea with its salted air and grey-sailed ships is always 
calling to the Elves...
A day spent in the company of these folk about to embark 
on a new life might result in invitations to visit, or reveal a 
mystery for later investigation.
19. Herders
Shepherds bringing their flocks down from the high 
ground before the winter, or driving them back up to 
mountain pastures is a common sight across Middle-
earth. Herds of cattle or horses need to be moved to fresh 
pastures with the turn of the seasons. Herders are for the 
most part isolated loners, but who knows what they might 
see out in the wild places of the world, far from habitation. 
Those who live out in the countryside are well-versed in the 
best places to camp, and the dangers to avoid. They will 
note the passing of strangers, and their usually mundane 
lives are strongly marked by anything unusual.
Any threat to their flocks or herds from Wolves, Wargs 
or hungry bandits might see them in need of help. What 
evil force gathers those enemies and sends them into the 
Wild?
20. Common Folk 
Sometimes an encounter might simply be with ordinary 
folk going about their business. They’re not undertaking 
any great journey and have not suffered any great ill. 
While unusual, it is not unknown for ordinary people 
to travel simply for pleasure: to take up their favourite 
walking stick and compile the sights they see into maps, 
to visit nearby friends, check up on neighbor’s fields, 
take crop surpluses to market, or having been sent on 
an errand to buy some new pans. Common folk among 
the Elves might be taking the air before writing a poem or 
composing a song. They might be simply enjoying their 
natural surroundings. 
Despite their grimly determined purpose even the 
Dúnedain appear at times as normal folk, tending to 
animals, or heading to Bree for the beer of The Prancing 
Pony and local gossip.
In unusual locales such as the Misty Mountains, any 
common folk encountered are likely to be hermits, going 
about their daily business of a quiet life of isolation.
Most common folk have simple needs, and a simple 
outlook. They can provide a Company with a practical 
view of the world, and information about their small 
hopes and fears. Common folk might serve as a reminder 
of hearth and home, and of how adventurers are curious 
14
Encounters on the Road

--- PAGE 16 ---
The Road Goes Ever On
folk. This can be used to push the Fellowship Phase in 
more grounded and even sentimental directions. 
Common folk also provide an example of the mundane 
goodness that heroes seek to preserve - the simple, quiet 
life of good things that eventually the Enemy will come 
to threaten. Or the petty squabbles and rivalries that 
the Enemy will seek to turn to a greater sourness. The 
Loremaster may chose to come back to the common folk 
encountered here in a different setting at a later time.
For the practical and simple folk of Middle-earth, weather 
and associated agricultural prospects have a great impact, 
and any conversation will invariably reference it.
 - Bones -
of the Earth 
 “Here and there upon heights and ridges they 
caught glimpses of ancient walls of stone, and 
the ruins of towers: they had an ominous look.”
Travellers throughout Middle-earth frequently encounter 
the ruins of past kingdoms along their journeys, for the 
builders of old shaped their works with skill now lost 
in the Third Age. Roads laid down by the forefathers 
of the Dwarves to link their underground realms were 
maintained by the Númenóreans and are still used by 
travellers between East and West. The Tower of Orthanc 
remains unblemished, though it was crafted thousands of 
years ago. The towers built in Eregion by the Elves might 
be no more, but the stones remember them still.
This section provides some advice and inspiration for 
Loremasters wishing to create their own ruins for use 
in their adventures, allowing for better descriptions and 
helping to give some ideas as to what use they have since 
been put to. 
Creating a Ruin
To design or detail a ruin, the Loremaster can follow the 
4-step process below, making a number of choices based 
on the location and needs of his adventure:
1. Who built it?
2. What was it originally?
3. What does it look like now?
4. What is it used for now?
1. Who Built It?
The following paragraphs discuss the characteristics that 
each of the Free Folk imparted to their buildings. Choose 
between Elven, Dwarven or Dúnedain construction. The 
Loremaster might also decide that the ruin is of lesser 
provenance, or even created by servants of the Shadow. 
The decision as to who built the structure should take 
into account where in Middle-earth it is to be sited, and 
which among the Free Peoples might have dwelt in that 
land long ago.  
Dúnedain: The Dúnedain once built mighty, awe-
inspiring works: the Argonath, statues of kings as tall as 
hills; the unassailable Tower of Orthanc; and the city of 
Minas Tirith, carved out of the side of a mountain. But 
they also fought terrible battles and bitter civil wars, and 
much of their art was lost forever. The broken works of 
the Men of the West are still fair to look upon, frequently 
15

--- PAGE 17 ---
bringing to mind old tales of noble heroes and great deeds, 
but so too do their remnants remind the viewer that their 
world is less than it was. 
Dwarves: In the working of stone, none have ever 
surpassed the Dwarves, and their creations were made to 
endure. Dwarf-work may at times appear delicate or fragile, 
but in this their great craft deceives the eye, for no matter 
how their creations may seem, they are invariably strong. 
Dwarf buildings, no matter how ornate in appearance, 
feel solid as the roots of mountains and it is rare to find 
them broken by the mere passage of time; only malice or 
catastrophe topples the mansions of the Khazâd. Some 
Dwarf-works are smoothed and polished to a mirror 
sheen. Others are cleverly carved to resemble trees, or have 
unusual properties. A few are perfectly camouflaged to 
appear identical to the terrain about them, for the Dwarves 
have ever been a guarded race and many of their doors are 
meant to remain a secret when shut.
Elves: Fair are all the creations of the Elves, their buildings 
no less so than their crafts; there is much beauty to be found 
in their grace, even when they lay fallen. Elven ruins often 
carry a melancholic sadness about them that other folk 
strongly perceive, and few can bear to inhabit them for long 
periods. Those rare folk that can often observe that time 
seems to pass strangely therein; a day can slip by all but 
unnoticed. Many Elven works were built to accommodate 
natural elements, often leaving spaces for trees to grow 
through or even incorporating them directly into the 
building itself. The peerless stonemasons of the Dwarves 
had a hand in many an ancient ‘Elven’ building, which can 
throw off a scholar seeking to identify the oldest ruins. 
Servants of the Shadow: Although Orcs, Trolls, and even 
fouler creatures rarely do their own building, preferring 
to defile and corrupt the abodes of Free Folk, sometimes 
Sauron sets his minions to work constructing towers of 
their own. Dark masonry, sometimes engraved with foul 
symbols or glowing with a baleful light, mark such places 
as the work of the Shadow. Even long after they have been 
abandoned or destroyed, these buildings remain tainted 
by the presence of Shadow. They are invariably Blighted 
Places.
2. What was it Originally?
Next, the Loremaster should decide what purpose 
the structure originally served, either by rolling on or 
picking from the table below. Was it once a sturdy castle 
or an ornate tomb? Even after being reduced to a ruin, 
something of the builder’s original intent might remain.
D12
Purpose
1
Archive
2
Decorative
3
Villa
4
Fortification
5
Hall
6
Waystation
7
Observatory
8
Road
9
Tomb
10
Workshop
11
Wondrous
12
Dark Purpose
Archive: Many of the Free Folk are long-lived and such 
folk tend to accumulate a great deal of lore. Archives 
were buildings meant to contain such records. Some held 
accounts of kings and their doings, others tales of history 
and exile. Many such places have long been plundered or 
their contents removed elsewhere for safe keeping, but the 
archives themselves endure. 
Archives were typically securely built and heavily fortified, 
with few windows, as they were meant to store and 
protect books, records held on parchment, and other 
easily damaged materials. Relatively intact archives may 
still have long rows of shelves, hinting at their original 
purpose. Few archives are found in out of the way places, 
but occasionally an archive meant to carry especially 
secret or dangerous lore might be found in a remote 
location and as such may still hold deadly secrets...
Decorative: Dwarves, Elves and the Dúnedain all built 
beautiful buildings, though their embellishments varied. 
Statues and monuments linger in abandoned courtyards. 
Beloved trees might still be surrounded by elegant benches, 
which their roots have long since toppled. Tunnels are 
carved with mosaics depicting famous stories of past 
triumphs that few can now remember. Even functional 
constructions were often carved with style: a long-since 
16
Bones of the Earth

--- PAGE 18 ---
The Road Goes Ever On
dry fountain with stones curving into the elegant shape of 
the outstretched hands of a marble maiden, an intricately 
carved post standing forlorn that once served to hold horse 
leads, and a magnificent sculpture of a single vast eagle 
clutching the body of a fallen Elven warrior, all are the 
sorts of ornamental works that might still be discovered.
Villa: Walled manor houses and villas were common 
throughout the realms of the Dúnedain, but little remains 
of them now. The stone foundations of a single house 
may yet remain, but stables, barns and other outlying 
structures were typically made of wood and have long 
since turned to dust. A long, low line of stones that once 
marked a property’s boundary or helped to mark off a pen 
may still be discerned, but little else will remain. 
Fortification: The Dúnedain fought many battles in 
their time, not just against the Enemy, but also against 
themselves, and neither the Dwarves, nor the Elves, 
are strangers to war. The remains of watchtowers and 
ramparts are fairly common throughout all lands. 
Watchtowers were invariably built atop steep hills and 
made of sturdy stone, whereas ramparts were a mixture 
of earth and rock, depending on their importance. 
Watchtowers, when still standing, will often be at least 
three storeys tall. Fortifications built to house warriors 
are generally known as keeps. The largest were vast, 
intended to hold hundreds of fighters, whereas the 
smallest were meant to house only a few patrols’ worth 
of warriors – ten to twenty at most – and mainly served 
to allow an alarm to be raised if necessary. Some smaller 
keeps were built in inaccessible but important areas, such 
as overlooking important mountain passes. Fallen keeps 
will often still retain portions of their outer defensive 
walls, but the inner portions may have collapsed and 
sometimes sunk into whatever cellars that were carved 
beneath them, leaving vast stony pits surrounded by 
piles of crumbling stone.
Hall: Generally a place for meetings of various types, halls 
were buildings for large gatherings used for everything 
from politics to leisure. What a given hall was originally 
used for may be reflected in its structure: a warrior’s hall 
would almost always be far more heavy in construction 
than a library or a school and thus more likely to have 
survived somewhat intact. Halls built for the exhibition of 
music and song were designed to enhance sound – strange 
tonal properties may yet linger in such places.
Waystation: Travel between the Dúnedain kingdoms of 
Arnor and Gondor flourished for a time, with many folk 
passing along the North Road, and for many years, the 
Dwarves and other traders travelled between the various 
settlements of Durin’s folk from West to East. Waystations 
were set along the road to meet the needs of travellers, 
built as much for security as comfort, for many stood in 
wild lands. Sturdy protecting walls may still stand, even if 
the structures they once guarded have long since passed 
into dust.
Observatory: Above all things, the Elves love the light of 
the stars and have ever been keen observers of the night 
sky. The Dúnedain, too, were watchers of the heavens, 
both to glimpse the future and to navigate, for the Men 
of the West were great mariners and practised readers of 
the stars. The Dwarves used the light of moon and stars 
in their works, crafting runes that only showed under the 
correct conditions in the night sky. Thus, all three peoples 
crafted buildings that helped them gaze at the heavens, and 
a few buildings that the unlearned would deem as merely 
‘watchtowers’ would once have served as observatories. 
Some were constructed in such a way that sunlight would 
pass through specific windows at different times of the year, 
allowing for precise measurements of time. A few may yet 
hold the remains of instruments once used for mapping 
the course of the stars, or hint at the secret techniques of 
deciphering hidden runes by moonlight.
Road: Long roads once stretched across the land, connecting 
villages and cities. The Dwarves built several major roads to 
connect their far-flung mines and underground kingdoms, 
roads which the Dúnedain put to use in their day. Stretches 
of some of the old Dwarf roads are still in use at the end 
of the Third Age, but the ancient way markers that once 
showed the distances between settlements have long since 
toppled. Many roads have fallen into decay, with whole 
portions lost to weather, water and time. Others have had 
their stones robbed for use elsewhere.
Tomb: The Men of Arnor buried their dead in stone 
barrows below ground, with nobles often being placed 
alongside valuable treasures. Those of Gondor placed 
their kings in elaborate mausolea. The Dwarves, too, 
lay their dead in elaborate halls of stone, marked with 
runes. Many of the crypts the Men of the West built have 
long since been opened and ransacked. Others have 
‘occupants’ who don’t like to be disturbed…
17

--- PAGE 19 ---
Workshop: Much of the history of the Second and 
Third Age has been dictated by the works of smiths, and 
forges were common to all peoples. The sturdy buildings 
that once held smithies often survive, for they were made 
exceptionally strong to endure great heat, but the tools 
employed in them are likely long since removed, leaving 
little else to show what use the building may have once 
been put to.
Wondrous: The Loremaster should either roll again, 
or choose another entry from the chart. The building in 
question will have unusual properties that some Free 
Folk may perceive as strange. For example a pool like 
the Mirrormere that reflects images from the past; the 
Hill of Seeing, where a traveller seated on its stone chair 
might glimpse visions of far-away lands; or a tomb in the 
Barrow-downs that haunts any who enter it with dreams 
of the past.
Dark Purpose: The Loremaster should either roll again, 
or choose another entry from the chart. This building was 
once used for sinister ends and a trace of the Shadow may 
linger about it; for example, a keep once used for torturing 
prisoners, an archive containing vile lore that was sealed 
away, a secret shrine dedicated to the Great Enemy, or 
similar. At the Loremaster’s discretion, such a building 
may be considered a Blighted Place (see Adventures in 
Middle-earth Player’s Guide, page 181).
3. What Does it Look Like Now?
Although the Loremaster now has an idea what the 
structure once was, next they should decide on what 
condition it is in now by rolling on or picking from the 
table below. It may once have been a mighty keep or 
glorious hall, but the passage of time eventually renders 
all to ruin – has it collapsed entirely or is something of the 
original structure still remaining?
D6
Present Appearance
1
Crumbling
2
Fallen
3
Overgrown
4
Partly Buried
5
Partially Collapsed
6
Sunken
Crumbling: Portions of the ruin are still standing, if only 
just. Large portions of the stonework have clearly fallen 
away, time and weather having worn them down. The 
structures that support the building look weak and dust 
regularly filters down from them. The whole ruin groans 
alarmingly with the wind, punctuated by the sounds of 
small stones falling from the ceiling. Anyone who fails 
an attribute check with a natural ‘1’ on the die whilst 
exploring the ruin dislodges something, and must make a 
DC 13 Dexterity saving throw to dodge falling masonry 
or suffer 11 (2d10) bludgeoning damage. 
Fallen: The building has been broken by time and lies 
in total ruin. Whatever it once was may no longer be 
discernible, for it now appears to be merely a pile of 
tumbled stone. Depending on where it was found, pieces 
may have been removed for other buildings, giving the 
ruin a haphazard appearance. There is no shelter to be 
found here.
Overgrown: Nature has taken the building back into its 
keeping. While parts of the ruin are still standing, they 
are all covered with plants, such as moss, lichen, or vines. 
18
Bones of the Earth

--- PAGE 20 ---
The Road Goes Ever On
Portions of the building’s interior may well be blocked off 
by the vegetation; however, there is likely some shelter 
here and the mass of plant life helps hold the ancient 
stones together.
Partly Buried: The building may be more or less intact, 
but a large portion of it has been buried by sand, stone, 
mud or even snow. The extent of the burial is such that 
there is no easy way to shift the material. Such buildings 
may provide a little shelter, but much of the interior is 
filled with whatever substance has buried it and there is 
unlikely anything much to explore.
Partially Collapsed: Portions of the building have fallen 
down, but the rest is still standing and seems sturdy. 
There is definitely shelter from inclement weather to be 
found here and possibly even an opportunity for some 
exploration into its interior. Such buildings may creak, 
or be filled with dust from the crumbling masonry, but 
they are otherwise sound. Such a building may allow the 
Company to benefit from a long rest.
Sunken: The ruin has settled into the earth, perhaps 
sinking into a bog, or it was enveloped by the slow 
shifting of ground. Such buildings can present a unique 
opportunity, but they can also be very dangerous. Much 
of a sunken ruin may still be intact, but swamp water 
or shifting earth will have filled its interior. There is no 
shelter to be had here, but the heroes might venture to 
explore into the ruin’s depths...
4. What is it Used For Now?
The Loremaster may wish to decide what the ruin is now 
used for. Does it lie empty, or has it been overrun by 
Goblins or inhabited by some foul creature? Either pick 
from the results below, or roll 1d12 to decide.
D12
Present Use
1-8
Abandoned
9
Hideout/Lair
10
Infested
11
Refuge
12
Haunted
Abandoned: The majority of the works of past kingdoms 
are lonely remains, long since deserted and forsaken, 
though seldom entirely forgotten. Rare passing travellers 
occasionally spend the night in ruins for the shelter they 
provide, but just as many will pass them by, superstitiously 
avoiding the fallen buildings of past kingdoms and 
vanished peoples.
Hideout/Lair: The ruin is occupied, most likely by 
nefarious sorts. Gangs of brigands sometimes make 
use of sturdy ruins, as do Orcs and other foul creatures. 
Occasionally, honest folk may put a local ruin to use, 
perhaps as a storage place for goods. Particularly large 
or cavernous buildings may conceal a pack of Wargs, a 
swarm of vampiric bats or even a Troll seeking shelter 
from the sun.
Infested: The ruin is overrun with vermin of some sort: 
insects, rats, hordes of spiders (small ones, usually…), 
neekerbreekers and so on. The infestation is so great that 
remaining within will be impossible, but this may not be 
evident at first, causing an unsuspecting company to bed 
down here, only to wake to the sounds of their stores being 
consumed by a tide of field mice.
Refuge: The ruin holds a hidden sanctuary of one of the 
Free Folk. Dwarven shelters are often carefully concealed 
behind cunningly wrought edifices with exceedingly well 
hidden doors. The Elves will often place their shelters 
hidden among nearby trees, adjacent to unused ruins, but 
not actually within them. In Eriador, many such refuges 
belong to the Dúnedain. The Rangers carefully ensure that 
19

--- PAGE 21 ---
buildings concealing one of their strongholds look just as 
abandoned as all of the other past works of their people. 
They take pains to conceal their stored goods behind false 
walls and mask passages with fences woven from fallen 
branches made to resemble natural obstructions.At the 
Loremaster’s discretion, Companions that manage to find 
such a refuge may rest in them, taking a long rest, even 
while travelling; however, if a Company doesn’t have the 
good will of the folk that built the refuge and are discovered 
there, it may go ill for them…
Haunted: One or more undead beings dwell in this place. 
They may be the sorrowful spirits of those who were 
cursed here long ago, or they may be of an altogether 
darker sort, wraiths using borrowed flesh to terrorise the 
living. Regardless, it is not wise to venture here without 
good reason. Locals who live near a haunted ruin are often 
aware of its dark reputation, though they are unlikely to 
know how it became so for a certainty. 
 - Dangers -
along the way 
 He had many hardships and adventures 
before he got back. The Wild was still the 
Wild, and there were many other things in 
it in those days beside Goblins…
Over the course of a journey, or due to an unexpected 
decision by the Company, the Loremaster may find that 
they are suddenly in need of some foes with which to 
challenge their heroes. The following section provides 
sets of adversaries for these purposes. Each has a starting 
Challenge Rating and several optional Strengths and 
Weaknesses. If the group is defeated as a whole, then 
it can be considered as a single entity when it comes to 
determining Experience Point rewards.
If your company is stronger that the base rating of the 
enemy group, select (or roll) one or more of the Strengths 
to increase the difficulty. If you’d like them to have an 
easier time of it, use Weaknesses instead. Some of these 
changes will impact the Challenge Rating of the encounter, 
others do not have a significant enough impact. For a more 
memorable fight, select both Strengths and Weaknesses 
as seasonings to spice up the encounter.
Change locations, names and abilities to best suit your 
game and your players. Middle-earth is yours now: fill it 
with foes to suit your needs.
A Note On Names
What matters most is how the game plays at your table. 
Although the following examples provide some names 
for groups and individuals, they remain examples only. 
For your players, Isenfeax might be renamed ‘Blackmane’ 
or simply ‘The Dark Warg’. The following groups should 
serve as templates... when the heroes reach a new area 
of Middle-earth, they might encounter other troupes with 
different names and compositions.
Goblins and Wargs
The Wargs and Goblins often helped one another in wicked 
deeds.
Blódolg’s Band
Blódolg and his fellows are raiders from Goblin-town 
who ride great Wargs, striking quickly and fleeing before 
any organised force can assemble. They can be found both 
West and East of the Misty Mountains, as the Wargs live in 
secret dells at the feet of the mountains and use the Goblin-
tunnels when necessary to traverse the mountains. They 
often plague the Woodmen and Beornings on one side of 
the mountains and any travellers that dare the mountain 
passes on the other side. Although Blódolg commands and 
inspires loyalty by being unusually generous for a Goblin, 
it is said that Isenfeax, the pitch-black Warg that he rides, 
is the cunning mind behind their success. In fact, if Blódolg 
were killed, it’s likely that Isenfeax will find with little trouble 
another willing set of hands amidst the Goblin tribes.
20
Dangers Along the Way

--- PAGE 22 ---
The Road Goes Ever On
Blódolg is a Misty Mountain Goblin that has Hideous 
Toughness. Isenfeax is a Wild Wolf and has an Evil Maw 
and is a Keen Mount. All other Wargs are Wild Wolves 
and are Keen Mounts. There are as many Misty Mountain 
Goblins and Wargs as the heroes, plus Blódolg and 
Isenfeax. The Band begins as a Challenge 4 encounter 
and can be further modified by the following tables:
D6 Strengths
1
Blódolg has grown strong on the spoils of war, he 
now counts as Big. (+1 to Challenge)
2
Isenfeax gains the Terrifying Howl ability. (+1 to 
Challenge)
3
The Wargs are hungry, all of them gain the 
Blood Driven ability. (no change)
4
Blódolg’s generous division of spoils has made 
his fellows into a Vengeful Band. (+1 to 
Challenge)
5
Goblins love to taunt and tease, and the gang is a 
Foul Alliance. (+1 to Challenge)
6
Blódolg and his fellow Goblins hail from a 
particular enclave of Goblins. They gain the 
Hatred ability (select either Dwarves or Hobbits 
as appropriate). (+1 to Challenge, or +2 if more 
than half of the heroes are affected)
D6 Weaknesses
1
One of the Wargs has been too much into the 
Beorning mead from the last raid. It has the 
Clumsy ability. (-1 to Challenge)
2
Blódolg for all his leadership is still a Coward at 
heart. (no change)
3
The Wargs have no heart for true battle, they all 
gain the Mewling ability. (-1 to Challenge)
4
The Band wasn’t expecting fierce resistance and 
the Goblins are Ill-prepared for Battle. (-1 to 
Challenge)
5
The Wargs are tired of dying in Goblin raids, and 
are now at a Weak Willed Alliance with the 
Goblins. If this ability is triggered, both Blódolg 
and Isenfeax will attempt to rally the troupe and 
who is successful might affect the leadership of 
the Band. (-1 to Challenge)
6
The Wargs are hungry and are now Starving 
Cannibals. (-2 to Challenge)
The Army of Outcasts
As the heroes set camp one night, the air is suddenly 
filled with a storm of howls… Wolves attack out of the 
darkness, retreating as soon as they are wounded. Then 
there are twangs of bows, and Goblin arrows rain down. 
Then the biggest Goblin they’ve ever seen on a huge Warg 
charges the camp, leading a group of Goblin Wolf-riders 
into battle. The Company has been beset by the Army of 
Outcasts!
Numol is the leader of the Army, and is a Really Big 
Misty Mountain Goblin. He was born big and grew even 
bigger (especially after eating his siblings). Eventually, he 
was too big for the twisting Goblin tunnels and he (and his 
insatiable hunger) were forced out. Now he has gathered 
a mighty force of other outcasts and terrorises the lone-
lands. 
The Army consists of a number of Wild Wolves equal to 
twice the number of heroes. Half of them are ridden by 
other Misty Mountain Goblins. There are also Goblin 
Archers equal to the size of the company. Numol rides 
Murgen, a Wolf Leader. 
The encounter begins as Challenge 10, and can further 
be modified by the following: 
21

--- PAGE 23 ---
D6 Strengths
1
The Goblins have been working on riding drills, 
the Wargs gain the Keen Mounts ability. (no 
change)
2
Numol shouts orders as the army attacks, give 
him the Commanding Voice ability (+1 to 
Challenge)
3
Numol has made a standard for his army, this 
gains them the Grim Banner ability. (+1 to 
Challenge)
4
The troupe will fight to the Last One Standing. 
If this is a Goblin, it gains the Screamer ability, 
if it is a Warg then it gains the Vile ability. (no 
change)
5
Numol and his band engage with a War Cry. (+1 
to Challenge)
6
The Wargs gain the Evil Maw ability (+1 to 
Challenge)
D6 Weaknesses
1
This is an army of outcasts and misfits, one of the 
ridden Wargs proves Stupid. (-1 to Challenge)
2
The Wargs are not likely to die for Numol, each of 
them is Weak Willed. (no change)
3
Murgen has borne the hefty Numol for too long. 
The wolf leader now counts as a Weakling. (-2 to 
Challenge)
4
The Goblin archers aren’t keen on close quarters 
combat, they are Mewling instead. (-1 to 
Challenge)
5
The army has no armour-worker, and all the 
Goblins are Poorly Protected. (-2 to Challenge)
6
The smell of the Wargs is overpowering and 
even the Goblins are affected by their Unclean 
Stench. (no change)
Trolls
But they were Trolls. Obviously Trolls… from the great 
heavy faces of them, and their size, and the shape of their 
legs, not to mention their language which was not drawing-
room fashion at all, at all.
The Stone-troll Family
Somewhere in the Wild, there’s a cave, and in that cave 
are three trolls, having dinner. It’s shepherd pie and both 
Pa-Troll and Junior are complaining that the shepherd 
didn’t have much meat on him and what’s there is tough 
and stringy. Troll-mum says that they ought to do a better 
job of hunting tonight then, and maybe she’ll come along 
to keep them in line…
Junior almost got left outside a few years back and his 
left side has partially solidified, giving him a Stony Hide. 
When Troll-mum accompanies them, she’ll be sure to use 
her Clobbering Sweep. If it’s just Pa-Troll and Junior, this 
is a Challenge 6 encounter, while the entire Stone-troll 
Family ranks as Challenge 10.
D4 Strengths
1
The Stone-troll Family becomes Aggressive. (no 
change)
2
Both Pa-Troll and Junior gain the Berserk ability. 
(+1 to Challenge)
3
Each member of the Family gains the Thick Hide 
ability. (+1 to Challenge)
4
Troll-mum gains both the Seize Victim and In 
the Sack with You! abilities. (+1 to Challenge)
D4 Weaknesses
1
Junior has never had a head for the family 
business. He gains both the Clumsy and Stupid 
abilities. (-1 to Challenge)
2
The Family care more for each other than for 
their victims. They are Ill-prepared for Battle. 
(-1 to Challenge)
3
Junior has brought his Fierce Bees collection 
with him. (no change)
4
The Family has seen better days, each of them 
count as Poorly Armed. (-1 to Challenge)
Tarl’s Team
Tarl is a Hill-Troll with ambition. He’s not a chieftain 
yet, but he has a few buddies that follow him. They’ve 
wandered the Wild, and have found that intimidating 
yells and shows of force will often get guards and other 
folk to flee before them, giving them a chance to pick over 
whatever is left behind. A couple of times, they’ve even 
been bribed by food and beer to unleash their violence 
upon others.
22
Dangers Along the Way

--- PAGE 24 ---
The Road Goes Ever On
Tarl is a Hill-Troll but he has a Commanding Voice 
instead of a Fearsome Bellow. There is one additional 
regular Hill-Troll for every hero. The troupe is a Foul 
Alliance. They are a Challenge 8 encounter, which can 
be further modified as below:
D6 Strengths
1
The Team wears War Paint, great crimson 
swatches on their faces and limbs. (No change)
2
Tarl and his fellows are not used to those 
who fight back, but become Desperate when 
challenged. (+1 to Challenge)
3
These Hill-Trolls have Long Arms and use them 
to their advantage. This ability applies only to 
their Slam attack. (+1 to Challenge)
4
The mercenary Team has learnt the advantage of 
being Shield Smashers. (no change)
5
The troupe is a Bloodthirsty one. (+1 to Challenge)
6
Tarl always keeps a few of his fellows back, in 
case of surprises. He gains the Call for Aid 
ability. (+2 to Challenge)
D6 Weaknesses
1
More used to threats than blades, the Team have 
become Cowards. (-2 to Challenge)
2
These Hill-Trolls have weak natural armour and 
are Poorly Protected. (-1 to Challenge)
3
The troupe worries that the The Strong Die 
First  (the ability triggers when half the trolls are 
defeated). (-1 to Challenge)
4
Tarl boasts the loudest, but is Mewling at his 
core. (no change)
5
Hill-Trolls are never quick, and these are 
especially Weak in Limb. (-1 to Challenge)
6
The troupe gains the Last One Standing ability, 
but the sole survivor will perform a Vile act in 
order to flee. (no change)
Orc Warbands
Apparently the members of two or three quite different 
tribes were present, and they could not understand one 
another’s Orc-speech. There was an angry debate concerning 
what they were to do now… 
When the great Enemy needs work done, he is most likely 
to send his most numerous servants, the Orcs. But they 
often bring their own quarrels with them and easily fall to 
infighting if they have no strong leader or other immediate 
threat. As they march, they despoil the land and leave 
wanton destruction in their wake. They prefer to move and 
to battle under the cover of darkness, but the large fighting 
Uruks of Mordor do not fear the light.
Morgul Vale Warband
Ufthak is a Black Uruk and commander of the warband, 
‘assisted’ (to his unending consternation) by Dushkû, the 
overly clever Messenger of Lugbúrz. They’ve brought as 
many Snaga Trackers with them as there are heroes, and 
gathered up twice as many Orc Soldiers from the local 
Orc tribes. Their mission might have nothing to do with 
the Company, or perhaps they chase the heroes on orders 
from Up Above. The Warband counts as Challenge 7, 
and can be modified by the tables below:
D6 Strengths
1
It seems to the heroes that Dushkû is Deeply 
Sinister. (no change)
2
Ufthak has a heavy whip, and he gains the Cruel 
Lash ability. (+1 to Challenge)
3
The warband will beat their Drums before 
engaging their enemies. (+1 to Challenge)
4
Dushkû has a container of Foul Liquour. (no 
change)
5
The Orc warband has orders and counts as a 
Vile Gang. (+1 to Challenge)
6
Dushkû never trusted Ufthak. He gains the Call 
for Aid ability, summoning more Orc Soldiers. 
(+1 to Challenge)
23

--- PAGE 25 ---
D6 Weaknesses
1
Both Ufthak and Dushkû are Mewling. (-1 to 
Challenge)
2
Some (1d3+1) of the Orc Soldiers are Weaklings. 
(-1 to Challenge)
3
The troupe is a Weak Willed Alliance (Ufthak 
will attempt to rally them). (-1 to Challenge)
4
The warband has the Last One Standing ability, 
but the sole survivor will prove a Coward. (no 
change)
5
The Snagas are unused to the Wild and count as 
Clumsy. (-1 to Challenge)
6
All of the warband are Poorly Protected. (-2 to 
Challenge)
Spider Colonies
As he drew nearer, he saw that it was made by spider-webs 
one behind and over and tangled with another. Suddenly he 
saw, too, that there were spiders huge and horrible sitting in 
the branches above him… 
Though the most numerous Spider colonies are found in 
Mirkwood, no corner of the Wild is entirely free from the 
presence of this ancient race. Heroes wandering in any 
forest, or amidst caves or other dark places might stumble 
upon a Spider colony, to their regret (if they survive the 
encounter).
Nightweaver’s Colony
This colony consists of Nightweaver, a Great Spider, and 
as many Attercops as there are heroes. Since the heroes 
have stumbled into the territory of the Spiders, it’s likely 
that the terrain favours the Spiders. There might be hedges 
of tree limbs, low boughs and webs all about (see pages 
92 and 93 of the Loremaster’s Guide). The colony begins 
ranked as Challenge 8 and can be modified below.
D6 Strengths
1
Nightweaver has eaten well, and is Really Big, 
having 105 (10d12+40) hit points and her sting is 
+7 to hit and does 9 (2d4+4) poison damage. (+1 
to Challenge)
2
All of the Attercops gain the Dying Frenzy 
ability. (+2 to Challenge)
3
Nightweaver has mastered the Eightfold Gaze. 
(no change)
4
The spiders prove to be Bloodthirsty. (+1 to 
Challenge)
5
Nightweaver gains the Vicious Hiss ability. (+1 
to Challenge)
6
All of the Attercops are Aggressive. (+1 to 
Challenge)
D6 Weaknesses
1
The Spider colony is not expecting visitors and are 
Ill-prepared for Battle. (-2 to Challenge)
2
The group is Terrifying in Aspect. (no change)
3
Nightweaver is old, fat, and slow. She is Weak in 
Limb. (-1 to Challenge)
4
The Attercops are young and they are yet Poorly 
Protected. (-1 to Challenge)
5
Nightweaver is resting from just having spun her 
Web. She must roll to recharge, even on the first 
round. (no change)
6
Nightweaver is well-fed and has grown Clumsy. 
(-1 to Challenge)
24
Dangers Along the Way

--- PAGE 26 ---
The Road Goes Ever On

--- PAGE 27 ---
Battle Maps

--- PAGE 28 ---
The Road Goes Ever On
 - avoiding battle - 
Not every encounter with enemies in the Wild need result 
in battle being joined. In Middle-earth healing is rare, and 
rests are few and far between on the road. A Company on 
a secretive quest might especially desire to avoid revealing 
themselves.
But what does this mean for a Company of adventurers 
who require Experience Points to develop their abilities? 
Will the satisfaction of purely narrative rewards diminish 
over time?  Happily, Experience is typically awarded for 
defeating adversaries, which need not mean at the point 
of a sword.
When confronted by the forces of the Shadow, a 
Company might prefer to avoid revealing themselves and 
jeopardizing their quest. The more ambitious may wish 
to eavesdrop upon their foes, simply because that’s what 
really first class and legendary adventurers do, at least in 
the tales. 
These optional rules comprise a series of skill checks to 
spot the enemy, elude detection and, if necessary, flee from 
pursuit while on a Journey. Failing to hide is not without 
cost, and running and being caught can be deadly! When 
DCs are unspecified, use the current Journey Event DC.
Step 1: Instigate the Encounter 
Whether scripted or random, there are enemies in the 
Wild and the Company must act!
Step 2: Spot the Enemy Early
As the enemy approaches, the Lookout is prompted to 
make a Wisdom (Perception) check. Especially stealthy 
enemies may apply Disadvantage to this check. A success 
affords the Company extra time to prepare.
Step 3: Company Reaction
The heroes must decide whether to stand and fight, find 
a suitable observation point, or to flee from the enemy 
while there is time to do so unnoticed.
• 
If the Company elects to stand and fight (or set an 
ambush), the encounter is resolved using the combat 
and XP rules.
• 
If the heroes elect to seek a place to hide and let 
the enemy pass, then the Scout must make an 
Intelligence (Investigation) check to find a suitable 
hiding place, and the Hunter must make a Wisdom 
(Survival) check to conceal the Company’s tracks. 
If the Lookout succeeded in Step 2, these checks are 
made with Advantage. If they are unsuccessful and 
the Company wishes to run for it they will be spotted, 
but will at least have a head start: skip to Step 5: Fight 
or Flight and grant the heroes Advantage. Otherwise 
go on to Step 4: The Enemy Draws Near.
• 
If the Company elects to flee, they are automatically 
successful. Go to Step 6: Rewards and Consequences.
Step 4: The Enemy Draws Near
If the Company has elected to spy on the enemy, each hero 
must make a Dexterity (Stealth) or Wisdom (Survival) 
check against the highest passive Perception of the enemy 
to avoid detection. If both the Scout and the Hunter were 
successful then the companions have Advantage on these 
checks. If both failed the heroes have Disadvantage. 
Relevant abilities (such as a Hobbit’s elusiveness or a 
Wanderer’s ability to hide in plain sight) may also be 
applied.
The Loremaster may wish to keep the DC secret, and 
only reveal the result after some tense and atmospheric 
description. If the heroes are successful, go to Step 6: 
Rewards and Consequences.
If one or more characters fail the check, something betrays 
the presence of the Player-heroes and the enemy is alerted. 
The Company is on the cusp of a critical decision, go to 
Step 5: Fight or Flight.
The Loremaster may wish, for narrative reasons, to have 
the foes linger, or even camp, perilously close to the 
Company’s hiding place.  If so, the enemies should make 
periodic Wisdom (Perception) checks to notice their 
“guests”.
Step 5: Fight or Flight
If spotted, the Company may choose to abandon stealth 
and fight. It is time to roll initiative!
The compromised Company might make a last desperate 
attempt to escape; instead of stealthy withdrawal it is 
27

--- PAGE 29 ---
now headlong pursuit. Each hero must make a Strength 
(Athletics) check against a DC set by a single Strength 
(Athletics) roll made by the enemy with the highest bonus. 
Players might invoke Distinctive Qualities, Specialities, 
Hopes, and Despairs to earn (and spend) Inspiration.
If all of the Company succeed, the Company escapes. See 
Step 6: Rewards and Consequences.
If any of the Company fail then the Company has been 
caught and must fight. Roll initiative! Heroes that 
succeeded at Athletics must double back and will suffer 
Disadvantage on Initiative.
Step 6: Rewards and Consequences
• 
A Company that spies on an enemy and remains 
undiscovered receives half of the XP they would 
have earned by defeating their enemies in combat. 
Additionally, if it fits with the Loremaster’s plans, they 
may have gleaned some useful information.
• 
A Company that flees receives no reward. Additionally, 
their flight has complicated their journey. The Guide 
must make a Wisdom check to plan a new route; on 
a failure apply a -1 modifier to any remaining Journey 
Event rolls. 
• 
A Company that fights (at any step) receives XP 
rewards as normal.
If the Company’s mission depends on subtlety the 
Loremaster might award increased XP, even up to the full 
amount. The risks of combat are a serious commitment 
which should remain something that is rewarded in most 
other instances.
 - Wonders -
of Middle-earth 
 They were at the end of their journey, but as far 
as ever, it seemed, from the end of their quest.
This chapter offers inspiration for the Wonders of Middle-
earth Journey Event, as well as ideas for things seen along 
the way outside of events.
Loremasters can simply incorporate some of the elements 
presented in this chapter into their description during a 
journey, build an encounter around one of the places or 
people, or even use them as the setting for an adventure. 
 
Vistas
The scenery around the Company can inspire or cause 
despair. Be it rolling hills with mist burning off in the 
rising Summer sun, the endless tree-tops of Mirkwood, the 
peaks of the Misty Mountains or the winding passage of 
the Great River, there are any number of exceptional views 
to be seen in Middle-earth
Unusual Thickets
A thicket is a dense group of trees or interwoven bushes, 
frequently all of the same species of plant. While many 
thickets grow naturally, there are some that look odd to 
even a discerning eye. 
Some thickets may subtly form a pattern, or appear to be 
wrapped about a specific place or meadow, protecting it 
from prying eyes. 
Other thickets seem to form shapes within them, appearing 
to hold deer, wolves or other natural creatures that ‘vanish’ 
as one draws closer to investigate. A particularly dense 
thicket might even protect a Stone-troll from the sun.
Hollow Trees 
Living trees sometimes have cavities inside their trunks, 
sometimes large ones. The tree hollow can serve as a refuge 
against the elements, which all sorts of creatures might 
take as a lair. A particularly large tree, such as an ancient 
oak, might have been used as a building, with inhabitants 
making additions to the tree, turning it into anything from 
28
Wonders of Middle-earth

--- PAGE 30 ---
The Road Goes Ever On
a dwelling to a fort; others may have camouflaged the 
opening, resulting in a hard-to-find secret hollow.
Waterfalls
Crashing down from great mountain heights or gently 
gurgling over smaller cascades, waterfalls vary greatly in 
size and shape. Tiered waterfalls appear to leap between 
‘steps’ and might be scalable, if a company is prepared to 
get very wet.  
A few waterfalls are so massive that their rumble and roar 
can be heard for miles about. Such waterfalls are often at 
the end of powerful rapids, long stretches of treacherous 
torrents that can easily kill the unwary with their 
deceptive strength and speed. Many waterfalls, even some 
seemingly small ones, can be deafeningly loud, rendering 
conversation impossible, and obscuring all other sounds. 
Wary scouts are ever mindful of ambushes in their vicinity. 
See Roar of Water on page 96 of the Adventures in Middle-
earth Loremaster’s Guide for more information.
Both the Dúnedain and the Elves have built hidden 
sanctuaries in caves hidden behind the plumes and 
curtains caused by waterfalls. Unfortunately, over the long 
centuries, Orcs have discovered some of these sanctuaries 
and have claimed a few for their own uses…
Fallen Giants
A tree so massive that its fall broke the earth all about 
it lies collapsed upon the forest floor, daunting travellers 
with its sheer size and ancient age. Perhaps lichen and 
moss cover its recumbent form, or maybe large portions 
have been cut away and used for building elsewhere. 
A tree that fell across a trail may well have had a tunnel 
bored through it, where passing travellers made their 
marks long ago. Birds may live within the wood of the 
tree, startling when a  company draws near, drawing 
unwelcome attention with their caws.
Caves
No wanderer looks at a cave without at least a little 
trepidation, for many of them have hostile occupants as 
Goblins and other creatures of the Shadow favour them. 
But caves can also offer weary travellers refuge from a 
storm and are frequently highly defensible, as narrow 
entrances and winding passages can be used to force 
assailants to attack in limited numbers. 
Some caves hold great beauty; unusual rock formations, 
crystalline pillars and the slow drip of water into 
shimmering pools echoing in the depths of such hollows.
 
29

--- PAGE 31 ---
Mine
From the outside, a mine entrance resembles a cave, and 
an abandoned mine might well be used in the manner 
described above. A Dwarf can tell at a glance whether or 
not a given delve is the work of his people. If the mineral 
wealth of a deserted mine hasn’t been entirely removed, 
there will be other reasons as to why it was forsaken: 
flooding in the lower shafts, treacherous shifting earth, 
poisonous gases or intruding foes that drove away the 
miners. A mine makes for a dangerous lair, but an easily 
sealed off one; that is, if a hero is certain there are no 
other exits…
Quarry
All of the Free Folk have, at one time or another, made 
use of various types of stone in their works, but the 
Númenóreans and the Dwarves are the most noted for 
carving marble, slate, granite and other useful materials 
from the earth. The distinctly chiselled rock of the great 
quarries of the Westernesse can still be found in the wilds 
of Eriador, close to their settlements of old. Most such 
quarries are long abandoned now; large, open air mines 
where sound echoes strangely off long walls of partially 
carven bare stone, or even flooded to become lakes of 
unusual depth (see also Sinkhole Lake, below).
Chasm
Long crevasses in the earth, a particularly large chasm 
can be just as difficult to pass as a wide river, especially 
when the shifting ground has caused one to appear 
unexpectedly. The interior walls of a chasm may be 
beautiful, showing off glorious colours or even hinting 
at valuable minerals contained within. Some gorges will 
have waterfalls and rivers flowing through them, filling 
the air with mist.
Older chasms, especially on well-trod paths, will likely 
have a bridge across them. Some bridges will merely 
be fallen trees, whilst others may be made of woven 
rope, sturdy wood or carefully worked stone; a bridge’s 
construction can say much about the folk that made it, 
perhaps giving a hint as to who may live nearby. 
Sinkhole Lake
The ground here has collapsed, revealing a glistening blue 
lake beneath the surface. The water is cool and amazingly 
clear, revealing a tantalising glimpse of a few intact 
buildings at the bottom of the lake. Brave heroes may wish 
to test their swimming skills to discover what lies within 
the watery ruins. (See the chapter Bones of the Earth for 
more ideas as to what these ruins might be.)
 - Lodgings -
Along the Road 
Lodgings
After long weeks of bedding down on soggy ground, 
even the hardiest traveller can appreciate the charms 
of a warm bed and a decent meal. The following entries 
detail the most common places a company might find to 
rest out on the road, far away from the more conventional 
lodgings offered by towns and villages. Such lodgings can 
be optionally used by the Loremaster to offer a long rest 
on a journey.
Poor Farmstead
Most farmsteads found in the Wild are poor, offering 
barely more than sustenance to the owners and perhaps a 
servant or two. They will often be situated far away from 
well-travelled roads, the better to go unnoticed. Most poor 
farms will have at least a simple main hall with several 
adjoining rooms, a barn, a small stable, and a workshop 
holding worn tools and a crude forge. A raised platform 
on the roof of the main hall will often have someone 
stationed in it to keep an eye out for travellers and trouble. 
Poorer farmers usually have little to fear from bandits: 
they generally have nothing worth stealing unless a band 
of brigands is truly desperate. Goblins and other creatures 
of the Shadow, though, will attack a farm out of sheer 
malice.
A farm’s buildings will have been constructed as sturdily 
as the farmers could manage, but the majority will be 
crafted from wood, with the main hall having reinforced 
walls to take refuge behind if the farm is overrun by Orcs. 
If they have any stones, such as those pulled from fields, 
they will have been put to use in building defensive walls 
of some kind.
Strangers will be looked at with a touch of suspicion, 
mixed with a genuine desire for news from abroad or a 
brief diversion from their otherwise mundane lives. 
30
Lodgings Along the Road

--- PAGE 32 ---
The Road Goes Ever On
An unknown company will have to talk their way into an 
invitation to stay, or offer up some other incentive. While 
money is welcome, as it can help with travelling merchants, 
immediate practical aid may be even more desirable. A 
Dwarf offering to work the forge for a bit is beyond even 
the wildest dreams of many farmers, for example. 
What lodgings a poor farmer can offer will invariably be 
simple ones. A farmer is more likely to be able to have 
room in their barn or a place in their stable than a spare 
bed. If they have any food to share, it will likely consist of 
simple stews and rough bread.
Rich Farmstead
The more well-to-do farmsteads to be found in the Wild 
will be placed closer to one of the regularly travelled roads, 
or near a major trading river, such as the mighty Anduin 
or the Running River, the better to move their goods to 
market. The farm will consist of a main hall with several 
floors including an adjoining kitchen, extra lodgings for 
hired help, one or more barns, a large stable, a general 
workshop, and a smithy. A watchtower will be attached to 
one of the buildings, with a lookout posted regularly. The 
buildings will all be well-made and regularly repaired. The 
main hall and several of the outbuildings will be enclosed 
by a sturdy stone wall with a gate.
The farmer’s family live comfortable lives and they will 
have several domestic servants, along with multiple 
hired hands for farm work, including a blacksmith. Rich 
farmsteads will raise sheep, goats or cattle to bring to 
market, along with various small crops. The farm may 
keep bees or employ someone skilled at carpentry or 
glassblowing, allowing them to produce simple goods to 
trade for extra coin.
Such farms regularly welcome travellers, eager for news 
from abroad, though they may keep a close eye on 
strangers, depending greatly on where the farm is situated 
and what sort of trouble the farmers have had to deal with 
in the past. The farmer will likely know several travelling 
merchants and if a Company has any local fame, may 
well have heard of them too. 
The farmer will not expect any recompense for a hot meal 
and warm beds for a night, other than news and company, 
though the offer of an evening’s entertainment, such as 
songs or a story well-told, will not be turned down.
Roadside Inn
Travellers’ inns are invariably situated along trade routes 
and other well-travelled roads, where they can more 
readily cater to their patrons. Once a mainstay of long-
distance travel, such inns are nowadays somewhat rare 
due to the many dangers of keeping such an establishment 
running; with the resurgence of the Kingdom of Dale, 
however, several new inns are being founded throughout 
Wilderland. If they become successful, such inns might 
serve as the heart of a new village.
A big inn will consist of a single large building with 
several floors, though a few may have one or two small 
outbuildings, regularly used for storage, but occasionally 
as workshops. Long ago, inns in dangerous areas would 
have had a sturdy outer wall of well-laid stone with an 
armoured gate; at present, such inns are all but gone, save 
perhaps in parts of Gondor. Most inns now reside behind 
stockades and – if at all possible – have arrangements 
for protection from dangers such as marauding Orcs with 
Warriors or Town Guards dwelling near the inn. The inn 
31

--- PAGE 33 ---
will mostly likely be made of solid wood, though older inns 
or those built with stone scavenged from nearby ruins may 
have some good stonework as well. It will have a large 
common room with a bar and a lot of sturdy furniture, a 
huge kitchen, multiple rooms for guests, a study, several 
storage rooms, servants’ quarters, a work room, a cellar 
and a stable. An innkeeper and their family, along with 
a few servants, will run the inn, tending to guests as 
necessary. Common room bars see a lot of business from 
locals as well as travellers.
The Easterly Inn is a good example of a small roadside 
inn (see Of Leaves and Stewed Hobbit in Wilderland 
Adventures).
 - Sights none -
Yet Seen 
 “Is that The Mountain?” asked Bilbo in a 
solemn voice, looking at it with round eyes. 
He had never seen a thing that looked so big 
before.  
As Companions travel they will witness many marvels of 
Middle-earth, and have many obstacles placed in their 
way in the form of Journey Events.  While each hill must 
be climbed and each stream forded, not every event along 
the way is worthy of Experience Points. Indeed, in the core 
rules, none are awarded outside battle.
 
Most Journey Events are self-contained. They offer a 
penalty or a reward for that Journey, depending on how 
successfully they are resolved. This is an intentional feature 
which means that the Journey rules can be optionally 
removed from a game without unduly impacting character 
progression. However a Loremaster, or indeed their Players, 
may actively wish to reward exploits undertaken on the 
road as part of Journey Events. This section offers some 
guidance on implementing such awards.
 
You can use the following guidelines to determine when 
to award XP, and how much to give. Depending on your 
game, you might optionally use these Experience Awards as 
‘tickboxes’ towards a whole level if enough are checked off. 
During a journey, only Events that prompt an immediate 
danger or unusual experience for the heroes may optionally 
result in Experience Awards. For example, the first time 
the Company travel across the Misty Mountains and 
look down upon the wilderness of Eriador spread before 
them, the Loremaster may wish to take that opportunity to 
award some Experience, rather than simple Inspiration. 
The first time a Company work together to cross a broken 
bridge above a river in full flood, this might qualify for an 
award of Experience.
To gauge how much Experience to award a Company on 
the Road, consider the whole Journey as an adversary of 
an appropriate Challenge Rating to the company. This will 
give you a Company Rating, which is equal to the Challenge 
Rating that is most appropriate for your Company. Larger 
or smaller companies may need to adjust their Company 
Rating accordingly.
 
Companion and Challenge Rating
Experience Award Table
Challenge
XP
Challenge
XP
0
0 or 10
14
 11,500
1/8
25
15
13,000
1/4
50
16
15,000
1/2
100
17
18,000
1
200
18
20,000
2
450
19
22,000
3
700
20
25,000
4
1,100
21
33,000
5
1,800
22
41,000
6
2,300
23
50,000
7
2,900
24
62,000
8
3,900
25
75,000
9
5,000
26
90,000
10
5,900
27
105,000
11
7,200
28
120,000
12
8,400
29
135,000
13
10,000
30
155,000
 
For example, a company of four level 1 Player-heroes are 
suited to a Challenge Rating of 1, giving them the identical 
Company Rating of 1. A journey for them would offer a 
maximum of 200 XP. A company of four level 6 Player-
32
Sights Not Yet Seen

--- PAGE 34 ---
The Road Goes Ever On
heroes would qualify to face a Challenge Rating of 6, giving 
them a Company Rating of 6, and so their journey would 
offer a maximum of 2,300 XP. Some degree of estimation 
is needed for larger groups, or those of mixed level. 
  
The amount of Experience available for each Journey 
can be calculated by the Loremaster beforehand, and 
then divided into several smaller awards reserved for 
each Event, any remainder being awarded on arrival. 
Alternatively the whole award might be reserved for one 
particularly significant event, especially if it ties into the 
larger plot or themes of the adventure at hand. 
Journey Events that cause the company to encounter foes 
don’t usually need an additional reward of XP above the 
award received for defeating the threat. Other events could 
be more suited for individual awards; or a Loremaster 
might consider that the whole company is in danger despite 
one hero being called forth and award group XP instead.
 
Eventually the difficulty of the journey will also limit what 
the heroes will find remarkable. The struggles of their first 
foray into the Wild will be as nothing to the veterans that 
they might become: if the Peril Rating of the journey is 
below the hero’s Proficiency Bonus they should not earn 
XP from Journey Events outside of battle. 
 
Dooms of Departure and Oaths of Return
While wonders abound in Middle-earth, certain splendours 
might personally move a hero to new ambitions. Or 
despair might move a hero to abandon a place that they 
once loved. In such circumstances, a player can petition 
the Loremaster for a special individual Experience Award, 
called either either a Doom of Departure or an Oath of 
Return. Once a hero is awarded either a Doom or an 
Oath, they are not eligible for another such reward until 
they improve their Proficiency Bonus.
Dooms of Departure
"…he left the hill of Cerin Amroth and came there never 
again as a living man."
A Player-hero may be so moved by dolorous events to 
declare that they will never again return to a place from 
which they embark onto the road. Only a Sanctuary or 
a Player-hero’s home is significant enough a place of 
embarkation to qualify for a Doom of Departure. Biding 
farewell to such a place counts as a hero’s undertaking.
The award for a Doom of Departure should correspond to 
a Company Rating Experience Award one lower than the 
hero’s Proficiency Bonus, and is awarded immediately. If 
a Hero should ever return to a place they have foresworn, 
the shame of betraying their own resolution means that 
they immediately receive a number of Shadow Points 
equal to one more than their Proficiency Bonus.  
A Player Hero should take great care when declaring such 
a Doom – to never return home or to a given Sanctuary 
might have serious repercussions when they need to re-
equip themselves, or gain rest and healing.
 
Oaths of Return
Then Legolas repaid his promise to Gimli and went with 
him to the Glittering Caves...
An Oath of Return is a promise to another Player-hero to 
come back to, or visit for the first time, a place encountered 
or distantly seen from the road. A hero might promise 
her companion that she will look into the still waters of 
Kheled-zâram on Durin’s Day, if he will but lead the way. 
Merely visiting the place again in passing is not sufficient 
to honour the oath: Experience Points awarded for an 
Oath of Return are delayed until the Oath is fulfilled as an 
Undertaking during a Fellowship Phase. Both the maker of 
the Oath, and the Hero who witnessed it must undertake 
the journey, and both receive the Experience Award. 
The award for fulfilling an Oath of Return should 
correspond to a Company Rating Experience Award one 
greater than the hero’s Proficiency Bonus.
 
33

--- PAGE 35 ---
OPEN GAME LICENSE Version 1.0a 
The following text is the property of Wizards of the Coast, Inc. and is 
Copyright 2000 Wizards of the Coast, Inc ("Wizards"). All Rights Reserved. 
1. Definitions: (a)"Contributors" means the 
copyright and/or trademark owners who have contributed Open Game 
Content; (b)"Derivative Material" means copyrighted material including 
derivative works and translations (including into other computer 
languages), potation, modification, correction, addition, extension, 
upgrade, improvement, compilation, abridgment or other form in which 
an existing work may be recast, transformed or adapted; (c) "Distribute" 
means to reproduce, license, rent, lease, sell, broadcast, publicly display, 
transmit or otherwise distribute; (d)"Open Game Content" means the 
game mechanic and includes the methods, procedures, processes and 
routines to the extent such content does not embody the Product Identity 
and is an enhancement over the prior art and any additional content 
clearly identified as Open Game Content by the Contributor, and means 
any work covered by this License, including translations and derivative 
works under copyright law, but specifically excludes Product Identity. 
(e) "Product Identity" means product and product line names, logos and 
identifying marks including trade dress; artifacts; creatures characters; 
stories, storylines, plots, thematic elements, dialogue, incidents, 
language, artwork, symbols, designs, depictions, likenesses, formats, 
poses, concepts, themes and graphic, photographic and other visual 
or audio representations; names and descriptions of characters, spells, 
enchantments, personalities, teams, personas, likenesses and special 
abilities; places, locations, environments, creatures, equipment, magical 
or supernatural abilities or effects, logos, symbols, or graphic designs; 
and any other trademark or registered trademark clearly identified 
as Product identity by the owner of the Product Identity, and which 
specifically excludes the Open Game Content; (f) "Trademark" means the 
logos, names, mark, sign, motto, designs that are  used by a Contributor 
to identify itself or its products or the associated products contributed to 
the Open Game License by the Contributor (g) "Use", "Used" or "Using" 
means to use, Distribute, copy, edit, format, modify, translate and 
otherwise create Derivative Material of Open Game Content. (h) "You" or 
"Your" means the licensee in terms of this agreement. 
2. The License: This License applies to any Open Game Content that 
contains a notice indicating that the Open Game Content may only be 
Used under and in terms of this License. You must affix such a notice 
to any Open Game Content that you Use. No terms may be added to or 
subtracted from this License except as described by the License itself. No 
other terms or conditions may be applied to any Open Game Content 
distributed using this License. 
3.Offer and Acceptance: By Using the Open Game Content You indicate 
Your acceptance of the terms of this License. 
4. Grant and Consideration: In consideration for agreeing to use this 
License, the Contributors grant You a perpetual, worldwide, royalty free, 
non exclusive license with the exact terms of this License to Use, the Open 
Game Content. 
5.Representation of Authority to Contribute: If You are contributing 
original material as Open Game Content, You represent that Your 
Contributions are Your original creation and/or You have sufficient rights 
to grant the rights conveyed by this License. 
6.Notice of License Copyright: You must update the COPYRIGHT NOTICE 
portion of this License to include the exact text of the COPYRIGHT NOTICE 
of any Open Game Content You are copying, modifying or distributing, 
and You must add the title, the copyright date, and the copyright holder's 
name to the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any original Open Game Content you 
Distribute. 
7. Use of Product Identity: You agree not to Use any Product Identity, 
including as an indication as to compatibility, except as expressly licensed 
in another, independent Agreement with the owner of each element of that 
Product Identity. You agree not to indicate compatibility or co adaptability 
with any Trademark or Registered Trademark in conjunction with a work 
containing Open Game Content except as expressly licensed in another, 
independent Agreement with the owner of such Trademark or Registered 
Trademark. The use of any Product Identity in Open Game Content does 
not constitute a challenge to the ownership of that Product Identity. The 
owner of any Product Identity used in Open Game Content shall retain all 
rights, title and interest in and to that Product Identity. 
8. Identification: If you distribute Open Game Content You must clearly 
indicate which portions of the work that you are distributing are Open 
Game Content. 
9. Updating the License: Wizards or its designated Agents may publish 
updated versions of this License. You may use any authorized version 
of this License to copy, modify and distribute any Open Game Content 
originally distributed under any version of this License. 
10. Copy of this License: You MUST include a copy of this License with 
every copy of the Open Game Content You Distribute. 
11. Use of Contributor Credits: You may not market or advertise the Open 
Game Content using the name of any Contributor unless You have written 
permission from the Contributor to do so. 
12. Inability to Comply: If it is impossible for You to comply with any of the 
terms of this License with respect to some or all of the Open Game Content 
due to statute, judicial order, or governmental regulation then You may 
not Use any Open Game Material so affected. 
13. Termination: This License will terminate automatically if You fail 
to comply with all terms herein and fail to cure such breach within 30 
days of becoming aware of the breach. All sublicenses shall survive the 
termination of this License. 
14. Reformation: If any provision of this License is held to be 
unenforceable, such provision shall be reformed only to the extent 
necessary to make it enforceable. 
15. COPYRIGHT NOTICE 
Open Game License v 1.0a Copyright 2000, Wizards of the Coast, LLC. 
System Reference Document 5.1 Copyright 2016, Wizards of the Coast, 
Inc.; Authors Mike Mearls, Jeremy Crawford, Chris Perkins, Rodney 
Thompson, Peter Lee, James Wyatt, Robert J. Schwalb, Bruce R. Cordell, 
Chris Sims, and Steve Townshend, based on original material by E. Gary 
Gygax and Dave Arneson. 
Adventures in Middle-earth Player’s Guide Copyright 2016 Cubicle 7 
Entertainment Ltd/Sophisticated Games Ltd; Authors: James Brown, Paul 
Butler, Walt Ciechanowksi, Steve Emmott, Gareth Ryder-Hanrahan, Jon 
Hodgson, Shane Ivey, Andrew Kenrick, TS Luikart, Dominic McDowall, 
Francesco Nepitello, James Spahn, Ken Spencer.
Adventures in Middle-earth Loremaster’s Guide Copyright 2017 
Cubicle 7 Entertainment Ltd/Sophisticated Games Ltd; Authors: Walt 
Ciechanowski, Steve Emmott, Jon Hodgson, TS Luikart, Dominic 
McDowall, Francesco Nepitello, David Rea, Jacob Rodgers, Gareth 
Ryder-Hanrahan and Ken Spencer.
The Road Goes Ever On Copyright 2017 Cubicle 7 Entertainment Ltd/
Sophisticated Games Ltd; Authors: Steve Emmott, Jon Hodgson, TS 
Luikart, and Jacob Rogers.
END OF LICENSE

--- PAGE 36 ---
The Road Goes Ever On
TM is a beautiful collection of 4 large-format journey maps for Adventures in Middle-earth, 
that comes with a 32 page supplement packed with setting information, rules and guidance on making the most 
of your journeys.
 
Each beautiful map is double-sided, with one set of player maps, and a set of hexed maps for Loremasters, 
covering known Middle-earth.
The handy supplement includes:
• 
Earning Experience on the road
• 
Maps for campsites in case there’s trouble
• 
Pre-made monster groups to drop into your journeys
• 
Rules on avoiding the Enemy in the Wild
• 
Guidance for creating ruins along the way 
• 
New rules for generating non-player travellers
• 
And more!
SKU: CB72305
Price: $29.99
12+
1-4+ hours
2-7