--- PAGE 1 ---
Explore Mirkwood and the Vales of Anduin with this essential resource 
for the world’s greatest fantasy setting.
TM
TM

--- PAGE 2 ---
Written by Gareth Ryder-Hanrahan with Francesco Nepitello
Converted by Jacob Rodgers
Creative Direction by Jon Hodgson
Cover by Ralph Horsley
Art by Jon Hodgson, Sam Manley, Jan Pospisil and Ben Wootten
Editors: Dominic McDowall, Francesco Nepitello
Graphic Design and Layout: Paul Bourne
Proof Readers: Amado Angulo, Jacob Rodgers
Based on The One Ring Roleplaying Game by Francesco Nepitello and Marco Maggi
© Sophisticated Games Ltd 2017     © Cubicle 7 Entertainment Ltd 2017 
To find out more about Adventures in Middle-earth, and 
to subscribe to our newsletter, please go to: www.cubicle7.co.uk
Product Identity: The following items are hereby identified as Product Identity, as defined in the Open Game License version 1.0a, Section 1(e), and are not Open Content:
All trademarks, registered trade-marks, proper names (characters, place names, etc.), new rules, classes, items, virtues, backgrounds, places, characters, artwork, 
sidebars, and trade dress. Open Game Content: The Open content in this book includes material taken from the Systems Reference Document. No other portion of this 
work may be reproduced in any form without permission.
Published by Sophisticated Games Ltd, 3 Andersen Court, Newnham Road, Cambridge CB3 9EZ, UK and 
Cubicle 7 Entertainment Ltd,  Suite D3, Unit 4, Gemini House, Hargreaves Road, Groundwell Industrial Estate, 
Swindon, SN25 5AZ, UK
 
 
The One Ring, Middle-earth, The Hobbit, The Lord of the Rings, and the characters, items, events and places therein are trademarks or registered trademarks of The 
Saul Zaentz Company d/b/a Middle-earth Enterprises and are used under license by Sophisticated Games Ltd and their respective licensees. All rights reserved. No 
part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording 
or otherwise, without the prior permission of the publishers. 
- credits -
2

--- PAGE 3 ---
Introduction	
4
How to use the Rhovanion Region Guide	
5
The Passing of Years	
5
The Lands of the River	
6
History of the Vales of Anduin	
6
	
The Men of the West	
7
	
The Shadow of Dol Guldur	
8
	
The Northmen of Rhovanion	
8
	
The Horse-People	
8
	
The Dark Years	
9
	
A Land without Kings	
9
	
The Men of the Anduin Vales	
11
	
Recent Years	
11
Regions of the Vales of Anduin	
12
	
Elements of the Landscape	
12
Vales of Gundabad	
13
Grey Mountains Narrows	
19
West Upper Vales	
24
East Upper Vales	
28
West Middle Vales	
34
East Middle Vales	
39
West Anduin Vales	
48
	
Woodmen of Mountain Hall	
49
East Anduin Vales	
53
Gladden Fields	
57
	
Wild Hobbits of the Anduin Vales	
58
West Nether Vales	
62
East Nether Vales	
65
The Greatest of the forests	
70
History of Mirkwood	
70
	
The Woodland Realm	
71
	
The Northmen & The Bight	
72
	
Dark Times	
72
	
Erebor & The Watchful Peace	
73
	
Fire and Ice	
73
	
The Dragon of Erebor	
74
	
Recent Years	
75
Regions of Mirkwood	
75
	
Elements of Darkness	
75
	
The Evil of the Forest	
77
Northern Mirkwood	
78
The Woodland Realm	
82
	
The Wayward Elves	
86
Western Mirkwood	
91
The Mountains of Mirkwood	
94
The Western Eaves	
98
Heart of Mirkwood	
109
The Narrows of the Forest	
113
Southern Mirkwood	
115
New Adversaries	
124
Dangers of the Wild	
124
	
Ancient Basilisk	
124
	
Gallows-weed	
124
	
Grim Hawk	
125
	
Hill-men of Gundabad	
126
Emissaries of the Enemy	
127
	
Gorgol, Son of Bolg	
127
	
Maghaz, Orc-captain	
128
	
Nagrhaw, Chief of the Wargs	
129
	
The New Great Goblin	
130
Perils of the Forest	
130
	
The Children of Shelob	
130
	
Sarquin, the Mother-of-all	
131
	
Tauler, the Hunter	
132
	
Tyulqin, the Weaver	
133
	
Forest Goblins	
134
	
Hunter Spiders	
135
	
Marsh-dweller	
136
	
Wild Men of Mirkwood	
137
	
Wood-wights	
138
Index	
139
- contents -
3

--- PAGE 4 ---
Rhovanion Region Guide
4
- Introduction -
The Rhovanion Region Guide describes the lands of the 
River and the Forest — the Vales of Anduin along the banks 
of the Great River, and the trackless forest of Mirkwood 
to the east. It expands on the descriptions given in the 
Loremaster’s Guide, offering new potential Sanctuaries 
and new perils for the players to discover. 
The majority of the Rhovanion Region Guide is taken 
up with descriptions of the various regions (as shown 
on the Loremaster’s Map in the back endpapers of the 
Loremaster’s Guide ). The first chapter follows the Anduin 
River down from the chill springs of the Misty Mountains 
to the southern edge of the Wild, visiting each region in 
turn. The second chapter explores the forest of Mirkwood, 
running from the thickets of Northern Mirkwood to the 
very gates of Dol Guldur.
Within those two chapters, each region is broken down 
according to the following scheme: 
First, the region in general is described, noting its borders 
and its major features. An especial note is made of any 
terrain scenery features that might be relevant in combat.
Secondly, any important flora or fauna are noted. Some 
regions of the Wild would make good farmland if they 
could be tamed; others are barren and hostile. Some 
places are home to all manner of dangerous beasts, 
others are desolate and haunted. In Mirkwood, the types 
of trees become of paramount importance, as there may 
be no landmarks other than a shift from oak to fir or 
thorn-trees. 
Next, the region’s inhabitants, if any, are described. In the 
Third Age of Middle-earth, much of the Wild is uninhabited 
by civilised folk, and a traveller may wander for long 
weeks without seeing another living soul. (Of course, just 
because the traveller does not see anyone does not mean 
there is no-one there.) 
Fourth and fifth come the Notable People and Notable 
Places of the region. Notable People are exactly that — 
chieftains, leaders, monsters, Wizards, heroes — who 
might be allies or foes of the Company. Motivations and 
some sample Expectations are given when appropriate. 
Notable Places are a mix of important settlements or sites of 
historical significance. Of course, the Loremaster may add 
or remove such people and places as he wishes — players 
who assume that everything that is seen here is true in their 
game may have nasty surprises awaiting them!

--- PAGE 5 ---
5
Introduction
In certain regions, the Company may find new Fellowship 
phase undertakings to try, or special challenges to 
overcome. Going off the road may be more rewarding — 
but also more perilous. 
Chapter Three contains a Rhovanion bestiary, a host 
of new monsters and beasts, as well as several unique 
entities of great power and malice. 
How to use the Rhovanion Region Guide
First and foremost, the Guide is a gazetteer, detailing 
the places and peoples of this part of Middle-earth. It is 
intended primarily for Loremasters, who can use this 
material to build their own adventures, or turn to it when 
the players unexpectedly go west instead of east and 
plunge into unknown territory. 
Players may also read the Guide, but should only attend 
to those sections with which their characters would 
reasonably be familiar: a Dwarf of the Lonely Mountain 
has no business peering at the sections that describe the 
Heart of Mirkwood, unless that Dwarf has an exceptional 
Survival score and the Region-lore (Mirkwood) speciality! 
The companion volume to this guide is a campaign entitled 
The Mirkwood Campaign. The Campaign covers the thirty-
year period in which the Nazgûl return to Dol Guldur and 
the Shadow spreads over the forest once more. Many of 
the Loremaster characters and locations here described 
play key roles in those adventures. 
You don’t need The Mirkwood Campaign to use the 
Rhovanion Region Guide, but you do need this Guide to 
use The Mirkwood Campaign. 
The Passing of Years
The material presented in the Rhovanion Region Guide 
assumes the year is 2946, five years after the Battle of Five 
Armies. As the years pass, the Loremaster should consider 
the effects of time on the various peoples and places. Old 
folk die, young brash heroes become wise chieftains, 
chieftains become old and toothless, and children grow 
up to become young brash heroes. 
For the most part, of course, life continues in the Wild as 
it has done for hundreds of years, and the Elves do not 
notice the passing decades, but the Loremaster should still 
avoid a completely static setting. 
Consider the Guide to be a snapshot of ‘current events’ in 
Wilderland, and build on this material as the years go by.

--- PAGE 6 ---
Rhovanion Region Guide
6
- The Lands - 
of the River 
“For Nimrodel flows into Silverlode, that the Elves 
call Celebrant, and Celebrant into Anduin the 
Great, and Anduin flows into the Bay of Belfalas 
whence the Elves of Lórien set sail”.
On and on the River Anduin flows, from its cold springs in 
the wastelands of the far north down to the warm lands 
of Gondor in the south. It runs for nearly five hundred 
leagues from source to mouth, and holds half the Wild in 
its mighty grasp.
Its northern part is named by some the White Anduin, 
because of its many rapids and fast current. South of the 
forest of Lórien it becomes the Green Anduin. Where the 
River plunges over the Falls of Rauros and joins with the 
waters of the Entwash it is called the Brown Anduin, and it 
is the Blue Anduin whence it passes the port of Pelargir in 
the southern lands of Gondor.
However, our tales do not take us there, for the full tale of 
the history of the Great River would be far longer than the 
river itself. For now, we consider only the region between 
Mirkwood and the Misty Mountains, lands known as the 
Vales of Anduin.
History of the Vales of Anduin
Anduin could be called the River of Men, as Men have 
thrived in the lands watered by it for many ages of the 
world. Few Elves ever settled along its banks — most of 
the Fair Folk crossed the river and continued west over 
the mountains; some lingered east in Mirkwood, and 
others stopped to dwell in the woods of Lórien, where the 
Silverlode flows into the Anduin.
Dwarves have little love for the Great River. Its waters are 
too deep and fierce. They delight in underground rills, in 
fast-flowing mountain streams that can drive millwheels

--- PAGE 7 ---
7
or be channelled into reservoirs and mirror-smooth lakes. 
Most of all, they love rivers that are shallow, for Dwarves 
cannot swim and have a great dread of drowning.
For Orcs and the other creatures of the Enemy, the Great 
River has long been a barrier. In the south, in Gondor, 
it girds the citadel of Minas Tirith, and the enemy dares 
not traverse it. In the north, the Goblins of the Misty 
Mountains avoid crossing the Anduin where possible. 
When they marched to war at the Battle of Five Armies, 
they went north around the springs of the river instead of 
daring to ford the river.
Other, stranger folk know the river too. In Rohan and 
other places, tales are told of the Shepherds of the Trees 
who dwell in the Forest of Fangorn, and who, in ages past, 
would come down to the banks of the Anduin to drink 
its waters and listen to its song. It is said that the river 
brought tidings from the forests of the north to the Ents, 
carrying the words of mountain pines and ash.
Hobbits, too, once lived along the Great River. Few now 
remember them, save as creatures out of legend. The 
holebuilders dug into the sandy banks of the Nether 
Vales, and made their homes there. Some of these Hobbits 
migrated west over the Mountains, and eventually settled 
in the Shire. Others vanished into the Wild. Hobbits (even 
ones not wearing magic rings) are very good at going 
unseen when they want to, and wild Hobbits doubly so. 
There might still be Hobbits in Rhovanion, nervous and 
fearful as rabbits, hidden from the sight of Men and Elves 
alike.
The Men of the West
At the end of the Second Age, when the Men of the West 
escaped the wreck of Númenor, they came to the shores 
of Middle-earth and established their realms of Arnor 
and Gondor. At that time, the lands between the two were 
known as the Wild. The Dúnedain drew up plans to tame 
that vast expanse, to build roads and bridges and cities all 
along the banks of the Anduin, and to bring the wisdom of 
lost Westernesse to the Northmen who lived in the Vales.
The ancestors of the Men of the West were kinsmen of 
these Northmen, and for a time the inhabitants of the 
Vales welcomed their distant cousins, and learned from 
The Lands of the River

--- PAGE 8 ---
Rhovanion Region Guide
8
them. In a happier world, perhaps all of the Wild might 
have united under the rule of the King, and all Men who are 
enemies of the One Enemy might have joined together in 
defiance of the Shadow. Sadly, there was not enough time, 
for Sauron returned to his stronghold in Mordor and once 
again planned to make war upon the surviving Dúnedain.
Elendil, the High King of Arnor and Gondor joined forces 
with Gil-galad, High King of the Elves, and their hosts 
marched south. In those days, the quickest route was along 
the Great River — they crossed over the Misty Mountains, 
then turned south. More warriors joined them on the way. 
Some were Dwarves of Moria, others were Men that came 
from the northern vales. Elves issued from Greenwood the 
Great and from the enchanted land of Lothlórien. They 
crossed the bridge that once spanned the Old Ford, then 
followed the river as it tumbled south, and passed out of 
sight beyond the Falls of Rauros.
Few of those who went south ever returned, for the battle 
against the Dark Lord was dreadful and bloody. The 
Alliance was victorious, but the victors’ losses were so 
grievous that the grand designs the Men of Westernesse 
had for the Wild were abandoned, and in the ensuing 
centuries Wilderland reclaimed its name.
The Shadow of Dol Guldur
The Vales of Anduin enjoyed a thousand years of peace 
after the defeat of the Dark Lord, as the world entered its 
Third Age. The Dwarves continued to toil in their mines, 
the Elves retreated to their forests, and Men lived and 
died along the River, their short lives passing like running 
water. Then, the Shadow fell on the forest: Greenwood the 
Great became Mirkwood, and men shunned it. 
In time, Men began to hear rumours of a new power in the 
Wild. Travellers spoke of a Necromancer, a wizard who 
dwelt in the fortress of Dol Guldur. The lands between the 
black hold and the river fell under the sway of his forces, 
and the free folk retreated before this creeping menace.
The Necromancer’s emissaries went out among the 
Northmen of the Vales, seeking out the greedy and fearful. 
These craven folk became his spies and agents, sent to play 
the clans and families against each other. Their mission 
was to foment kinstrife and war, to ensure that no alliance 
was ever strong enough to threaten Dol Guldur. At times, 
his servants would raid the Northmen, taking prisoners 
back to his dungeons, but the Necromancer never stretched 
out his hand to conquer the North. His eye was ever bent 
towards the Gladden Fields and the southern portions of 
the Anduin, for he sought his missing Ring.
 
The Northmen of Rhovanion
Men have dwelt in Wilderland since the First Age of the 
world. They lived then much as they do now, in small 
clans ruled by chieftains and warlords, living mostly along 
the eaves of the forest. But there has been a time when a 
Northman prince dared to proclaim himself the King of 
all Wilderland. Mere memories remain of his existence — 
the Northmen build no great cities, and in the Wild it is a 
rare thing for a kingdom to outlast the life of its king, but 
this prince of princes ruled over the wide plains between 
the forest and the River Running, and the barren expanse 
called the East Bight was carved out by the hunger for 
wood of his many subjects.
There was great friendship between this confederation 
of Northmen and the people of Gondor. The Northmen 
profited much from the dealings they had with the 
learned Men of the South, and made good guards over the 
northern frontiers of Gondor in return. They sometimes 
quarrelled with the Elves, and there was ever distrust 
between the tree-felling Northmen and the folk of the 
Wood. But the Men of the confederation never fell under 
the Shadow, despite the efforts of the Necromancer to 
bring them under his sway.
In 1635, plague came from the east. It fell hard upon 
Gondor and the south, but it was devastating to the 
Northmen: the Great Plague killed more than half of 
the folk of Rhovanion, shattering the strength of the 
confederation. Years later, the weakened Northmen 
retreated before the onslaught of enemies coming from 
the East, and were forced to abandon their lands. The East 
Bight was deserted, and today the ghosts of the Northmen 
haunting those areas greatly outnumber the living. The 
remnants of the once powerful confederation scattered in 
all directions. Some chose to go west, and returned to the 
lands between Mirkwood and the Great River.
The Horse-People
The clans of Northmen that returned to the Vales of Anduin 
finally settled in the lands between the River Gladden

--- PAGE 9 ---
9
and the Carrock. There, they maintained their talents for 
horsemanship, for which the Northmen of Rhovanion 
were renowned, and called themselves the Éothéod, the 
horse-people. They also maintained their oaths of fealty 
sworn to the Men of Gondor, and together they fought 
bitter battles against the invaders from the East.
The Éothéod remained in the middle vales of Anduin for 
one hundred years, but eventually the shadow of Dol 
Guldur reached them. Those inhabitants of the vales who 
were serving the Enemy started to threaten their safety, 
and so the chieftains of the horse-people led them far 
north, to the very springs of the Great River in the Vales 
of Gundabad. There, they drove away tribes of evil Men 
and Goblins, and founded a great fortified town at the 
confluence of two rivers.
In that time, the Goblins of Mount Gundabad were still 
very numerous and warlike. Often, they left their hiding 
places by means of secret tunnels and hidden paths and 
attacked the newcomers. Dragons, too, and other creatures 
beset the new Northman nation. Those were days of high 
adventure, when heroes pitted steel and sinew against 
the horrors that crawled out of the mountain roots. The 
Éothéod survived these early trials, and grew strong.
The Dark Years
Around the same time that the Éothéod went north, Durin’s 
Bane awoke in Moria. The great city of the Dwarves was 
abandoned, and became the abode of evil things. The 
Dwarves retreated west and east. Some travelled to their 
mines in the Blue Mountains, far across the land of Eriador, 
others to the Iron Hills. Durin’s heirs built their new kingdom 
of Erebor, the Lonely Mountain, and the iron-shod boots of 
the Dwarves rang no longer on the Old Forest Road.
Reinforced by the darkening of Moria, the power of Dol 
Guldur grew strong. For the first time, men spoke openly 
of the Necromancer, and his dread shadow extended over 
the Vales of Anduin. The lands from the Old Ford to the 
borders of Lórien were within the grasp of his black hand, 
and many Men who lived in the Vales started to pay tribute 
to the Hill of Sorcery. The Necromancer did not ask openly 
for their allegiance, but any who refused to bow before his 
emissaries were beset by all manner of foes. Ghosts out of 
Dol Guldur inhabited the barrows and tombs; Orcs were 
seen along the forest eaves, and the passes and paths over 
the Misty Mountains were infested by Goblins and Wargs.
In the year 2063 of the Third Age, the wizard Gandalf 
came to Dol Guldur. The Shadow departed, and the land 
was freed from the Necromancer’s evil. The ghosts hid in 
dark crannies under the ground, and the Orcs retreated 
to their caverns. The Elves emerged from their Woodland 
Realm, and many Northmen settled under the eaves of the 
forest, in the new sanctuary they called Woodmen-town.
A Land without Kings
This ‘Watchful Peace’ lasted for four hundred years. In that 
time, only the Woodmen living inside the forest and in the 
deep valleys along the foothills of the Misty Mountains 
managed to profit from the shadow’s departure, and 
multiplied. Those Northmen who inhabited the middle 
vales of the Great River and who bowed to the Necromancer 
dwindled in number. But the Woodmen didn’t dare 
claim the territories of the oathbreakers, as they were 
considered tainted and cursed. So the memory of their 
dark allegiance endured in their households, preserved in 
bitter songs sung for the ruin of the West.
The Lands of the River

--- PAGE 10 ---
Rhovanion Region Guide
10
So it was that when the Necromancer returned to his 
fortress in 2460, spies and servants were soon abroad 
once again, and there was strife among the Northmen 
of the vales and the Woodmen. When messengers from 
Gondor travelled up the river in the year 2510 looking for 
help in their wars, they encountered a land that was vastly 
deserted. Among the inhabitants of the Vales of Anduin, 
only the Éothéod could answer — they rode out of the 
north led by their chieftain, Eorl the Young, and won a 
great victory in the Field of Celebrant. In return for their 
heroism, the Steward of Gondor granted the horse-people 
the southern land of Calenardhon. Eorl the Young led his 
entire folk south to live there, so the Éothéod passed out of 
the Annals of the North.
With the departure of the Éothéod went the last strong 
ruler west of the Forest and east of the Mountains. Among 
the Northmen of the Vales there was no voice that could 
unite the clans, no leader to rally the disparate houses. 
Had the Necromancer wished, he could easily have 
conquered their scattered homesteads.
Defeating mortal Men, though, was of no concern to the 
dread lord. His Eye was ever bent south and west upon 
his ancient foes — the Dúnedain of Gondor and the Elves 
of Lórien and Rivendell. All his schemes depended on the 
defeat of these strongholds. Therefore, he bided his time 
for several decades and built up his forces in preparation 
for a return to his old fastness of Mordor.
The River-folk of the Anduin
The history of the Vales of Anduin is a history of migration. The Northmen were driven up and down the river over 
the centuries. They fled overcrowding, famine and plague; they fled harsh winters or the drought of summers, the 
powers of darkness and the machinations of the Necromancer.
The ancestors of the horse-folk, for example, moved from the Vales to the East Bight, from the Bight back to the 
southern Vales, from the south to the sources of Anduin, and from there to the plains of Calenardhon where they 
became the Rohirrim. Similarly, the ancestors of the Woodmen travelled from region to region until they settled in 
the safety of Mirkwood and in the dales along the Misty Mountains to the east.
Some denizens of the Vales never settled at all. Called the Éafolc ("River-folk") by the Beornings and the Woodmen, 
these Men come of mixed stock; they count the forefathers of the Woodmen among their ancestors, but their blood is 
mingled with that of wandering wild men akin to the Dunlendings. The Éafolc spend most of the year on the water, 
living on house-barges that wallow along the Anduin. They do build houses on stilts and piles sunk into the mud of 
the riverbank, but these are only temporary dwellings and vanish after a few years. They do not farm, but survive 
by fishing, hunting, gathering and trading; the river is their home, their road, their larder and their defence against 
their foes.
The West Anduin Vales is where they are most often encountered, but they paddle as far north as the Vales of 
Gundabad, and as far south as Nen Hithoel above the Falls of Rauros on little boats. Their houseboats — barges big 
enough for a whole family, including provisions and livestock — are much slower and less agile, and often must be 
hauled with ropes from the riverbanks when going upstream, and so rarely stray beyond the safe waters between the 
Old Ford and the borders of the haunted Golden Wood.
River-folk traders have a reputation as untrustworthy tricksters, and certainly they try to get the better end of any 
bargain if they can. However, most of their trade goods are of good quality. They bring furs, amber and timber from 
the north of the Great River, and carry wine, meat and iron tools from the south. In negotiations, they treat the other 
inhabitants of the Vales in a Neutral fashion, and others as Unknown strangers.

--- PAGE 11 ---
11
The Men of the Anduin Vales
In the following centuries, the Vales of Anduin became 
once again wild and dangerous. Outlaws and servants of 
the Necromancer travelled the overgrown paths, and the 
few surviving Northmen not under the shadow jealously 
guarded their homesteads and forts and mistrusted their 
neighbours. Civilised folk no longer spoke of the North, 
but called it only Wilderland. 
When the Long Winter of 2758 struck the North, those 
who lived along the Great River were not prepared and 
many families froze to death. Many more turned to the 
Necromancer’s servants for aid — even the proudest 
Northman would think hard when faced with a choice 
between starving to death and serving Dol Guldur.
By the year 2900, the Northmen of Wilderland were 
scattered and divided. The largest communities were 
gathered under the four main Houses of the Woodmen. 
They dwelt in the forest’s eaves inside their fenced 
villages of Woodmen-town and Woodland Hall, or near 
the house of Radagast the Brown at Rhosgobel, and in 
the deep valleys east of the Misty Mountains around 
Mountain Hall.
Along the banks of the Great River other Northmen lived 
as their forefathers had for many years, in isolated and 
self-sufficient farmsteads. Most of these folk dwelt in 
the southern Vales, beyond Lórien on the fringes of 
Fangorn Forest and Rohan, but they began to migrate 
north. They skirted the baleful lands of the Necromancer 
and began to settle west of the Anduin. They mingled 
with the few residents of the middle vales, and met 
those few corrupt men who fell under the shadow of 
Dol Guldur and were secretly or openly servants of the 
Necromancer.
Recent Years
In the year 2941, a number of events affected Wilderland 
profoundly. Bard the Bowman killed Smaug the Dragon, 
and the number of Goblins and Orcs plaguing the region 
was severely reduced at the Battle of Five Armies. 
When Beorn the Skinchanger returned to his stead, he 
seemed fired with new purpose. That autumn, he visited 
all the farmsteads that lay within three days march of 
his home, and declared them to be under his protection. 
The people within that region acclaimed Beorn as their 
chieftain, and he seemed willing to accept this honour. 
Now, the folk who live around the Carrock are called 
the Beornings, and they hold the Old Ford and the lands 
around it.
Some time before the Battle of Five Armies, the White 
Council drove the Necromancer out of Mirkwood. The 
Shadow has not yet lifted entirely from Mirkwood, but its 
power is much diminished. Those who served Dol Guldur 
are now either dispersed or freed from his dark influence; 
in either case, there is adventure to be had in the Anduin 
Vales.
Now, five years after the Dragon’s death, Beorn and the 
chieftains of the Woodmen joined with the folk of Dale, the 
Kingdom under the Mountain and the Woodland Realm 
at the first Council of the North. They swore friendship 
and pacts of trade and mutual defence — a first step in 
restoring civilisation to the Wild.
Boat-spirits
Some of the house-boats of the éafolc are home to 
a curious race of friendly spirits. These boat-spirits 
are rarely seen, as they are incredibly skilled at 
hiding. They resemble human children, standing 
only two or three feet tall, and dress in green and 
brown clothes. 
The boat-spirits come out at night and magically 
complete chores on the boats — a River-folk family 
might awaken to find all their ropes neatly coiled 
and stacked, their boots polished, the deck swept, and 
a delicious breakfast cooking on a campfire by the 
riverbank. Of course, the spirits demand a price — the 
River-folk protect them and leave out plates of food 
for them each evening (and a bottle of wine or three 
would not go amiss either).
Only the larger house-barges have boat-spirits; some 
barges are even said to have several such entities. 
Boat-spirits are long-lived, and can haunt the same 
family for decades.
The Lands of the River

--- PAGE 12 ---
Rhovanion Region Guide
12
Regions of the Vales of Anduin
...below them were trees that looked like oaks and elms, and 
wide grass lands, and a river running through it all.
The Vales of Anduin comprise the regions along the banks 
of the Great River, as it flows between Mirkwood and the 
Misty Mountains. These areas extend from the river’s 
source in the Grey Mountains to the borders of Lórien.
Elements of the Landscape
The Vales encompass a vast sweep of territory, covering 
many hundreds of miles, and the river passes many 
different lands and peoples. Still, some traits remain 
true all along the river’s path. The Loremaster may refer 
to the following traits when describing the landscape 
encountered along the Great River.
Emptiness
War, plague and despair have emptied this land. Few 
people now dwell in Wilderland, and those who remain 
are clustered in a few isolated places. A traveller can 
march across the countryside for weeks and not meet 
a single living soul. Unless travellers deliberately seek 
out places where people dwell, they are unlikely to meet 
anyone on their travels.
But, though Wilderland is empty, 
it was not always the case. Men, 
Dwarves and Elves lived here, and 
traced paths, tracks and roads, built 
bridges, stockades and towers, most 
of which are now utterly ruined 
and forgotten. Carved stones and 
other relics can be found in the most 
unlikely places.
 
Savagery
This is the Wild. There is little 
shelter here. No inns to speak of, 
few settlements, fewer large villages, 
and even fewer friendly faces. When 
the north wind howls in winter, the 
snow blankets the whole land from 
the Vales of Gundabad to the Middle 
Vales. Beasts and monsters prowl 
the countryside, and bands of Orcs 
come down from the mountains to raid and pillage. Those 
who dwell in this land must be tough and cold-hearted to 
survive. The Wild can be cruel and savage.
Strange Magic
Not even the Wise know all the secrets of the Vales of 
Anduin. There is magic here that even Elves do not know, 
echoes of strange music caught in the mountains and 
valleys. Unexpected and bizarre things dwell between the 
Mountains and the Forest.
Travelling along the Vales of Anduin
The greater part of the territories between Mirkwood 
and the Misty Mountains that are touched by the 
Great River are not too difficult to journey across. 
Paths old and new make travel easier, and wide plains 
lay to the sides of the river, especially upon the Eastern 
shore.
If the Guide has the Region-lore (Vales of Anduin) 
speciality, they may roll 1d10+2 on their Embarkation 
Roll, as long as the majority of their journey lies 
within the Vales.

--- PAGE 13 ---
13
Vales of Gundabad
The Vales of Gundabad refers to the triangle of land 
between two rivers. The Langwell rises in the Misty 
Mountains and tumbles south-east to meet the Greylin, 
whose source is in the Grey Mountains. Combined, they 
form Anduin the Great. Where the Misty Mountains and 
the Grey meet, Mount Gundabad rises. Its grim face stares 
down the vales from the north. 
In the past, the land between the rivers used to be called 
the Gore of Anduin, although this phrase has fallen out of 
use since the Northmen left this region.
The Vales can be a cold land. Cruel winds and snows 
whip off the northern mountains in winter, while spring 
and summer bring heavy rains from the west, as clouds 
cross the gap in the mountains above the Long Valley 
and disgorge an ocean of rain. This water pours down the 
steep, jagged rocks of the valley in a series of thunderous 
waterfalls, and thence into a thousand small streams. The 
vales watered by these streams turn green in the spring 
with grass and thistles, while the basin near the junction 
of the rivers is a fertile flood plain.
At times, especially in autumn, thick fogs roll down the 
hills and the whole Vale vanishes behind a grey cloak. 
The Goblins go hunting when these fogs descend. The 
central portion of the Vales of Gundabad is a land of 
thinly wooded hills that recede endlessly into the grey 
mists. This is a lonely land, haunted by evil spirits and 
wild men. Travel through those cold, depressing hills and 
you might find yourself on the goblin-road that leads to 
Mount Gundabad.
Combat Scenery: birdsong, crags, nettle banks, steep 
slopes, streams, thick fog, torrential downpours
Wildlife
The mountain valleys are home to goats, pine martens 
and rabbits as well as many birds. A few wild horses and 
thin-bellied cattle can still be encountered in the lower 
vales, although the hunger of the Goblins spares only 
a few of these animals. The wild horses of the Vales of 
Gundabad are especially prized, as they descend from 
the steeds of the Éothéod. Beavers and kingfishers live 
along the rivers; pike and trout may be found in the 
waters themselves.
 
An outcrop of wooded hills, called the Black Hills, are the 
hunting ground of many packs of wild wolves. Somewhere 
in those hills is the fabled Werewolf Hollow, where the 
oldest and most powerful Wargs are said to dwell. Ancient 
songs tell of ruins haunted by beasts that walk on two legs 
or four, and of red eyes burning in the night.
Inhabitants
The Dwarves do not speak of it, but certain legends 
claim that their first halls lie beneath the roots of Mount 
Gundabad, and that Durin the Deathless awoke there 
when the world was young. If there are Dwarven tunnels 
beneath the mountain, then the Goblins took them long 
ago, for Mount Gundabad has been an Orc stronghold 
since time immemorial. These Orcs were the allies of 
Angmar hundreds of years ago, and they marched to 
fight in the Battle of Five Armies after the death of the 
Dragon. 
E
E
E
E
The City of the Éothéod
The Hidden House
The Hill 
of Skulls
The Lost Watchtower
Vales of 
Gundabad
The Lands of the River

--- PAGE 14 ---
Rhovanion Region Guide
14
When the Éothéod lived here, they slew many Orcs and 
evil Men and drove the rest underground or into the hills. 
Then, they built a fortress at the confluence of the two 
rivers, and left the uplands to the Goblins and the wild 
men. When the Northmen left the region to settle in the 
land of Calenardhon, a few of them remained behind, 
but they could not fully man their 
stronghold and the fortress slowly fell 
into ruin. They were eventually forced 
to move south into the Upper Vales of 
Anduin, where they mingled with the 
local cottars and lost their mastery 
of riding. Of that proud nation of 
Northmen only a few hardy survivors 
remain, living as trappers and hunters.
Goblins innumerable live in the tunnels 
under the mountains. So vast is their 
network, it is said that a Goblin can 
run on his flapping feet from Mount 
Gundabad all the way to the Withered 
Heath in the East, or to Mount Gram in 
the West, or to tall Methedras in the far 
The Hill-men of Gundabad
A few scattered tribes of wild Men live in the Black Hills. They are the descendants 
of an evil folk, subject to the dark kingdom of Angmar, who crossed into 
Wilderland from Eriador at the time of the Witch-king. When the Éothéod 
moved into the Vale of Gundabad, they hunted these Men mercilessly, as 
the Northmen accused them of being workers of sorcery. They escaped 
extinction by learning to hide in the hills, and under them, using 
the network of goblin-tunnels dug under the Vale. When the folk 
of Eorl left these regions, the surviving Hill-men emerged from 
their dens and started to multiply again. Today, they are a primitive 
and savage folk, weakened by centuries of interbreeding and by their 
dealings with the Goblins and Wargs. They seldom leave their refuges 
under the hills, and never go far from them, as they do not dare to cross the 
rivers for their deathly fear of water.
Sorcery of the Hill-men
The wild men of the Black Hills have forgotten much of the sorcery their ancestors were reputed to wield, but they 
all still speak the language of Wargs and some among them even have the power to leave their physical bodies while 
sleeping at night, to prowl the land in spirit form. A gift that is much akin to that of some Beornings, it lets a 
hillman go to great distances in the form of a large wild wolf, to carry messages, to spy upon his enemies, and even 
to poison food and water supplies. Should it be killed, the body of a spirit-wolf dissolves before the dawn, leaving no 
trace. (Learn more about the Hill-men on page 127).

--- PAGE 15 ---
15
South, the last peak of the Misty Mountains, without ever 
poking his nose above ground. These paths lead through 
many secret ways, through carved tunnels and natural 
caves, through Goblin dens and the abandoned halls of 
the Dwarves, and through the twisted borings of nameless 
things and the lairs of dragons. 
When the Horse-people dwelt in this land, the Goblins 
dared not trespass on the green earth, and instead dug 
their tunnels beneath the ground. Over five hundred years, 
they drew ever closer to the fortress of the Horsefolk, until 
they could assail it from below.
Notable Characters
Amfossa the Trapper
A few hardy trappers live along the Greylin River, hunting 
the beavers and stoats for their fur, which they trade with 
the Beornings. Amfossa is the leader and spokeswoman 
for these trappers. She is a tall, powerfully-built woman 
with eyes that seem blue or green or brown depending on 
the light. 
To hear talk the wives of the other trappers, the passing 
years do not leave their mark on her, suggesting she must 
have Elvish blood in her. Beorn himself has been known 
to travel north to consult with her, and Gandalf and 
Radagast are not strangers to her house.
Amfossa has a shack built on wooden stilts where the 
rivers join. Here she meets with the River-folk and others. 
If the heroes are so lucky as to gain the hospitality of 
Amfossa, they might be allowed to rest here. The shack’s 
interior seems bigger than it should be, and an aura of 
peace and comfort means that they can gain the benefits 
of a long rest even if they’re on a journey and they recover 
one additional Hit Die as well.
Motivations: I will keep my people safe from all threats. I 
share what I know with only those who are worthy.
Expectations: Amfossa shares those of a Chieftain, see 
the Loremaster’s Guide, page 68.
Amfossa
Medium Human
STR 
13 (+1)
DEX 
14 (+2)
CON 
12 (+1)
INT 
13 (+1)
WIS 
16 (+3)
CHA 
11 (+0)
Armour Class 14 (Leather Corslet)
Hit Points 44 (8d8+8)
Speed 30 ft
Skills History +3, Lore +3, Perception +5
Senses passive Perception 15
Languages Westron
Challenge 1 (200 XP)
Commanding. Amfosa’s allies gain Advantage on attack 
rolls against enemies who are engaged with Amfosa.
Hawk’s Eye (4-6). Amfosa may use her bonus action to 
negate Disadvantage due to being at long range for this 
turn only.
Actions
Short Bow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, range 
80/320 ft, one target. Hit: 5 (1d6+2) piercing damage.
Hwalda, Hill-man Guide
Hwalda is one of the wild folk of the Vales of Gundabad. 
She is actually of mixed blood, born of a Northman 
hunter and a Hill-man mother. She is capable of leaving 
her body as a spirit-warg, but unlike most of her kin she 
has travelled beyond the natural boundaries of the two 
rivers and has no love for the Goblins and the wild wolves 
of the vales, as they killed her father when she was young. 
The Lands of the River

--- PAGE 16 ---
Rhovanion Region Guide
16
Hwalda’s journeys have taken her west over the Misty 
Mountains, in search of a dark fortress she often sees in 
her dreams, and as far south as the Carrock. She wears 
warg-hide armour, and carries a sword of dwarf-forged 
steel looted from some ancient grave. She can be a Guide 
or interpreter for those who seek treasure in the Vales of 
Gundabad, or for those looking for the Lost Watchtower 
(see page 19).
Motivations and Expectations: Hwalda shares many 
qualities of a Messenger (page 70 of the Loremaster’s 
Guide ) but values people over messages.
Hwalda, Hill-man Guide
Medium Human
STR 
11 (+0)
DEX 
12 (+1)
CON 
14 (+2)
INT 
10 (+0)
WIS 
12 (+1)
CHA 
9 (-1)
Armour Class 13 (Warg-hide)
Hit Points 19 (3d8+6)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Perception +3, Shadow-lore +2, Survival +3
Senses passive Perception 13
Languages Westron
Challenge 1/2 (100 XP)
Far Traveller. If the Company is travelling with Hwalda, 
she may be assigned a journey role.
Spirit-warg Dreams. If Hwalda can sleep undisturbed 
on a journey, she has Advantage on the first check that 
she is required to make for a Journey Event each day.
Actions
Dwarf-forged Short Sword. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to 
hit, reach 5 ft, one target. Hit: 5 (1d6+2) piercing damage.
The Steed of the Moon
Minstrels and Loremasters tell the tale of how Eorl the 
Young tamed Felaróf, first of the mearas, the great horses 
of Rohan, when his people still dwelt in the Gore of Anduin. 
The Steed of the Moon is a wild white horse that must be 
akin to the fabled steed of Eorl, for he runs faster than the 
wind and is as beautiful as a moonrise over the forest. 
Many hunters have tried to catch and tame the Steed, but 
none have succeeded. Thranduil the Elf-King has made 
it known that he desires the Steed of the Moon, and has 
offered a rich reward to anyone who captures the peerless 
horse.
New Undertaking: Tame the 
Steed of the Moon
Catching the Steed of the Moon is a matter for 
an adventure. Taming it, though, takes a whole 
Fellowship phase. To tame the steed, the companion 
must have make a series of DC 15 attribute checks: 
Strength (Athletics), Wisdom (Insight), Charisma 
(Intimidation), and Wisdom (Survival). The hero 
must succeed at each of these checks, but can spend 
Inspiration to bypass one check. If the hero succeeds at 
all of the checks, the Steed is now tamed. Otherwise, 
the hero must try again in another Fellowship phase.
Once the horse is tamed, then the hero may ride the 
Steed of the Moon:
• 
When on a journey, all Wisdom (Survival) 
checks made as a result of the journey or 
Journey Events are made with Advantage.
• 
When the rider is travelling alone, the Steed 
allows him to cover 80 miles per day (instead of 
40).
• 
If the hero is in the Vales of Anduin, the Steed 
is never far away. The rider may call the Steed 
to him, no matter where he is. (The Steed still 
has to travel to the rider, but it knows that it is 
needed).
Gorgol, son of Bolg
Bolg, son of Azog, ruled the Orcs of the Mountains from 
his capital of Gundabad for many years, until Beorn slew 
him at the Battle of Five Armies. Now, many warlords 
contend for Bolg’s throne, and there is civil war and 
treachery beneath the ground. One likely heir is Bolg’s 
eldest son, Gorgol. He fought in the battle, but fled when 
Beorn charged. 
Gorgol and his followers were driven east by the Eagles, 
and forced to retreat into the Withered Heath. It took him 
six years to return home to Gundabad, and by then he 
had few remaining followers and could not force his claim 
to his father’s throne.

--- PAGE 17 ---
17
If Gorgol is to become ruler of the Goblin warrens under 
Gundabad, then he must rally more followers. The only 
ways to do that are to either have the blessing of the Dark 
Lord himself, or to make war upon the enemies of goblin-
kind. At midwinter on the year of his return, Gorgol 
murdered one of his rivals with his father’s sword and 
daubed nine names onto the wall behind his father’s 
throne, nine enemies of the Orcs he has sworn to kill. One 
— Thorin Oakenshield, who killed the Great Goblin — is 
already dead. The names of King Dáin Ironfoot and Beorn 
are assuredly there too. Only the denizens of Gundabad 
know for certain who the other six are, but Gorgol will not 
rest until they all have perished.
Learn more about Gorgol on page 128.
Nagrhaw, Chief of the Wargs
Nagrhaw is the great grey wolf who was the chief of the 
Wargs that chased Gandalf and the Dwarves up the trees. 
He survived the encounter with the wizard and fought 
in the Battle of Five Armies, although his nose is still 
blackened from Gandalf’s fiery pine-cone, and his flanks 
are scarred with elf-arrows and dwarf-swords. 
He eventually made his lair in the Werewolf Hollow in the 
Black Hills, although he ranges far when he hunts. Since 
the Battle of Five Armies he has not dared cross the Great 
River again — the Eagles keep a watch on him, and attack 
him on sight.
Nagrhaw’s support could decide the victor in the struggles 
beneath Mount Gundabad. Ancient bonds of malice and 
evil unite the Goblins and the Wargs, and the chief of the 
Wargs could be kingmaker in the North.
More information on Nagrhaw is found on page 130.
Notable Places
The City of the Éothéod
The largest and northernmost fortress of the Éothéod was 
first built on a large stone outcrop overlooking the rivers 
to the south. Deep cellars were dug into the rock to keep 
stores, and tall ramparts surrounded the stronghold. 
Soon, the town surrounding it expanded onto the muddy 
ground north and west, as the horse-folk became more 
and more numerous. Today, only tumbled piles of stones 
and grassy fields pockmarked with post-holes remain — 
most of the fortification was built using trees brought from 
the eaves of Northern Mirkwood.
The city’s earthen ramparts and protective ditches can 
still clearly be seen, as can the hollow ruins of the few 
stone structures that the Éothéod built with the help 
of stonemasons from the South. Orcs and Trolls dwell 
among these ruins; they use the city as a staging post for 
raids across the river. Long ago, they looted the tombs of 
the Éothéod, and many treasures of the horse-people are 
now piled up in the dungeons of Gundabad, or stored in 
hidden troll-caves.
The Lands of the River

--- PAGE 18 ---
Rhovanion Region Guide
18
Forgotten Treasures
According to ancient legend, Gítsere was a lord of 
the Éothéod who hid his fortune in a huge wooden 
chest with a carven lid before riding to battle. 
He never returned, and so his pale gems and gold 
may still be buried somewhere in a secret treasury 
underground, behind strong iron-bound doors. Such 
a hoard might be worth 500 gold pieces or perhaps 
much more — there might even be Legendary 
Weapons or Armour that were left behind for some 
reason. The skull of Scatha the Worm may still rest 
among the ruins of the High Hall of the city, and 
there are many strange tales regarding dragon’s 
blood and their bones. Scatha was a long-worm 
of the Grey Mountains, and slain by Fram, whose 
name is remembered in many songs. He was the son 
of Frumgar, the chieftain who originally led the 
horse-people to the Vales of Gundabad.
The Hidden House
When Fram slew the long-worm Scatha, Dwarves 
from the Grey Mountains hastened to the camps of the 
Éothéod to press their claim. They argued that the hoard 
of Scatha came from the dwarf-halls that the dragon had 
previously despoiled, and that they were therefore entitled 
to the greater part of the recovered treasure. The Éothéod 
refused them, and Fram sent the Dwarves a necklace of 
dragon’s teeth, claiming that these were rarer jewels than 
anything in the hoard. The Dwarves tore at their beards 
and contemplated making war upon the horse-people. In 
the end, cooler heads prevailed, although the Dwarves did 
swear long oaths of vengeance. 
Some Dwarves, though, refused to abandon their claim. 
They went north to the hills, and there built the Hidden 
House, Bar-en-Thurin, a cunningly concealed fortress 
beneath a grey hill. There, they watched the horse-people 
and plotted how to steal their treasure back. Greed and 
madness consumed them before they resolved to act, and 
they perished.
The Hidden House still exists, somewhere beneath the 
trackless hills. Thrain II wintered there before besieging 
Mount Gundabad during the War of the Dwarves and 
Orcs, and dwarf travellers use the Hidden House as a 
waystation. Parts of the underground fortress, though, are 
unsafe, and no-one knows what dwells in the lower halls. 
Certainly, the Casket of Hate that contains the Necklace of 
Scatha is lost somewhere within the Hidden House.
The Hill of Skulls
The Hill of Skulls is a familiar feature to those who travel 
in the western part of the Gore. It stands a little way 
away from other hills, a lonely mound visible for miles. 
Hundreds of wooden stakes bristle on its flanks, and 
every one has a skull impaled on it. Most are Orc-skulls 
and Warg-skulls, but others belonged to Men or Dwarves. 
There are even a few huge skulls that must belong to 
Giants. While most of the grisly trophies are clearly very 
old, there have been travellers who swear they have 
spotted fresher heads staked on the side of the mound 
from time to time. No one knows who is responsible for 
the gruesome decorations; what is certain is that the hill 
is not a natural formation, and is indeed hollow. It might 
be a barrow, but what lies buried, or hidden, under it no 
one is in a hurry to discover.

--- PAGE 19 ---
19
The Lost Watchtower
About a thousand years ago, the armies of Angmar 
completed the destruction of the North-kingdom of Arnor, 
but were soon in their turn vanquished by an alliance of 
Elves and Men at the Battle of Fornost. After defeating the 
armies of the Witch-king, the allies continued on to break 
the power of Angmar and scatter its allies. Like a bright 
spear, they thrust east, even across the mountains and 
unto the very gates of Mount Gundabad. The Orcs fled into 
the darkness below the earth, and dared not emerge for 
many years. 
To secure their victory, the Men of Gondor built a 
watchtower to stand vigil. The fortification was built 
in sight of the gates of Gundabad, atop a narrow and 
unassailable spur against the east side of the mountains. 
Beneath it were cellars and wells enough to feed an army, 
but the tower could be defended against a huge host of 
attackers by just a handful of doughty warriors.
At first, the outpost was manned by survivors of the 
kingdom of Arnor, but as the long years rolled by, the men of 
Gondor gave custody of the tower to the Éothéod. When the 
riders too left this land, the keys to the tower were given to 
a vassal house who dwelt across the river in the West Upper 
Vales. What fate befell them, history does not recall. If the 
Watchtower were found and manned once again, then it 
would be a major obstacle for the Orcs of Gundabad to 
overcome. For this to happen, though, some hero would 
have to find the Watchtower and also locate the missing 
keys to its gates, and those keys were lost hundreds of 
years ago.
Grey Mountains Narrows
The region known as the Grey Mountains Narrows is a 
long strip of land separating Mirkwood from the Grey 
Mountains. It extends for more than sixty leagues, from 
the riverbanks of the Greylin to the west, to the flat 
Dalelands to the east. While the region is from twenty 
to thirty miles wide for most of its length, it tapers to 
little more than ten miles where the mountains and the 
forest almost meet, at its opposing ends — known as the 
Narrows’ East and West Gaps.
E
E
The Hoary Mountain	
The Greydelve	
Grey Mountains 
Narrows
The Lands of the River

--- PAGE 20 ---
Rhovanion Region Guide
20
The slopes of the Grey Mountains are an inhospitable 
waste. Before the Battle of Five Armies crushed the might 
of the Goblins in the North, the area was described as 
simply stiff with the likes of them. Now it offers a safer 
alternative to the dreadful pathways under the trees for 
those who need to get across the width of Mirkwood, but 
it remains a dangerous and cheerless land. Barren and 
very cold in winter, its climate is made only slightly more 
bearable by the protection offered by the mountain range 
itself, as the rocky barrier shields the area from the fury of 
the northern winds.
Near the region’s western Gap, just beyond the Forest 
River, the hills grow taller, rising to meet a great spur of 
the Grey Mountains that bends round to the south-west. 
At the feet of the rocky spur, a winding trail crosses the 
gap from the south. It is a trading road, a long path that 
meanders among the stony hills and the dales of the 
Narrows, cutting across the length of Wilderland. Kept 
in good repair for many long years, this grey road saw 
traffic decline dramatically after the coming of Smaug, 
and the stone bridge that used to cross the Forest River 
collapsed during the Fell Winter of 2911 — today, its raging 
waters can only be crossed safely further away from the 
mountains, where the river enters Mirkwood; here, the 
stream runs both swift and deep, but its banks are lined 
with trees, and travellers can use ropes to get across. 
As the road travels east, the landscape becomes harsher. 
The bare hills diminish in size and dot the land like 
innumerable barrows. Travellers on the road feel the 
strength of the winds rise, as cold currents from the 
Withered Heath blow against them, and dust clouds 
rising from the Waste to the east darken the light of the 
sun. After miles and miles of bleak, lonely countryside, 
the road finally reaches the East Gap of the Narrows, to 
then turn southwards into the Northern Dalelands; the 
Dalelands were once known as the Desolation of Smaug; 
several years after the death of the Dragon, the region is 
once again a green and pleasant land, tilled and rich.
Combat Scenery: boulders, cliffs, freezing cold, lone trees, 
rock edges, rubble, scattered rocks, and varied slopes
Wildlife
Strangely, the desolate Narrows are not wholly deserted of 
life. Many birds, mainly ravens and crows, roost under the 
eaves of Mirkwood and in the mountain dales; they take 
to the skies in large flocks when disturbed, breaking the 
silence of the land with their caws and squawks. Wolves 
prowl the hills, ranging from the foothills of the mountains 
to threaten any traffic along the road. Now that the path 
across the Narrows sees more use once again, these canny 
animals have learned to avoid groups of armed warriors 
and to approach lonely wanderers instead.

--- PAGE 21 ---
21
Wargs and other wicked creatures also tend not to stray 
too far south, as they learned the hard way that getting 
too close to the borders of Mirkwood is likely to attract the 
attention of the Silvan Elves — and the Elvenking does not 
suffer trespassers gladly. In fact, experienced travellers 
know that around the Woodland Realm it is safer to make 
camp closer to the forest than far from it, contrary to what 
common sense might suggest.
Inhabitants
In years past, the Dwarves delved into the Grey Mountains 
in search of wealth. These delvings were never as rich 
as Erebor or Moria, but there was iron to be found in 
abundance, as well as other useful metals and good 
stone. One by one, these holds fell to Dragons, or to Orcs, 
or to other foes, and drove the Dwarves from the region. 
Most of the refugees went east to the Lonely Mountain and 
the Iron Hills, or west to the Blue Mountains, but a small 
number remained stubbornly here. These survivors live in 
shacks or small tunnels dug under the tall hills around the 
West Gap, or in the heights extending out of Mirkwood. 
They dare not trespass into the woods, as the Elves of the 
Woodland Realm bear them little love. Travellers can find 
shelter here: though the Dwarves begrudge every moment 
of hospitality they offer, they offer it nonetheless.
No other established communities of Men, Elves or 
Dwarves exist around the West Gap or the middle regions 
of the Narrows; those areas were plagued for too long by 
creatures out of Mount Gundabad or coming from beyond 
the Grey Mountains. Even if the number of Orcs and other 
evil creatures haunting the foothills of the Grey Mountains 
were severely reduced at the Battle of Five Armies, 
there are still many other wild things that may threaten 
travellers. In particular, a breed of cannibalistic monsters 
called Hobgoblins (Loremaster’s Guide, page 98) hide in 
A Campfire Tale
Companions making camp in one of the ruins atop the hills of the East Gap might encounter Farmann one night. He 
appears out of nowhere, climbing the hillside on his silent horse, unheeded by any watchman or sentinel. He appears 
to be a hoary old warrior, haggard-looking and wearing a weather-beaten cloak. Farmann hails any Northman or 
Dwarf warmly, bows respectfully in front of an Elf, but seems completely oblivious to the presence of anyone else.
 
Once introduced to the Company, Farmann dismounts and quietly sits beside the fire, rubbing his hands close to 
the flame. Then, he gives his warning: maybe there’s a storm coming, or a stream to be crossed safely at a certain 
location, or a den of particularly nasty critters to avoid. Whatever the nature of the danger, the warning is true, 
and never fails to prove helpful. The next check due to a Journey Event is made with Advantage. When he is done, 
he mentions that he has a duty to perform before the dawn comes, but that he feels too tired to go just now. If he is 
invited to remain with the Company until daybreak, he accepts gladly and soon falls asleep by the fire. For the length 
of the encounter Farmann seems just an old man, too old for this life of adventure. By daybreak, the old man and 
his horse disappear without a trace.
If a companion asks about Farmann’s duty, the old man says he has a wife and daughter living in the northern 
Dalelands, and that he should return to them — but again, he is too tired. if someone volunteers to accompany him 
home, he accepts, but whoever goes with him must face a wearisome task, as Farmann seems to fall asleep on his 
horse every other minute or so, and the hero must succeed at a DC 13 Intelligence (Riddle) or Wisdom (Survival) 
check to interpret the weak directions of the March-warden. If successful, the group eventually spots a small 
watchtower atop a hill, just before day breaks — the old rider appears suddenly animated by a sense of urgency, 
and thanks the companions while trotting away and leaving them behind. When finally the sun rises, Farmann 
is gone, and the watchtower is revealed for what it is, a ring of crumbling stones, blackened by fire. Companions 
with a Shadow score feel relieved, as if they just received good news from someone they care for — everyone may 
decrease their Shadow score by one point.
The Lands of the River

--- PAGE 22 ---
Rhovanion Region Guide
22
deep caverns to the north, while Snow-trolls (Wilderland 
Adventures, page 133) are known to hunt in these areas, 
when storms blanket the hills with snow and ice.
The East Gap of the Narrows was a borderland, the 
frontier of old kingdoms of the North, once inhabited by 
march-wardens and their vassals. Ruined watchtowers 
crown the hilltops overlooking the road like many rings 
of standing stones, while farmsteads still stand intact, but 
empty and silent. 
These barns and wooden halls were occupied until a 
few years ago by Northmen who only left these lands to 
gather to Dale after the death of the Dragon. Now, they 
are mostly used by those who must cross the Narrows on 
errands from their kings or masters, suspicious Dwarves 
and hasty Men from the Long Lake and Dale.
Notable Characters
Farmann, the March-warden
Many wanderers who have journeyed across the grey 
road tell tales of a solitary figure, a rider who makes 
his appearance when a company of travellers faces 
particularly dangerous odds. The rider is usually seen at a 
distance, on a hilltop or just at the edge of vision at night. 
He points in right direction when a group seems to have 
lost their way, or to warn companies of impending danger, 
such as approaching wild wolves or other threats.
The figure is described as a Northman warrior carrying 
shield, sword and a tall spear, riding a stout mountain 
horse with a snow-white mane. He is often referred to as 
Farmann, the March-warden. 
A few witnesses, maybe the more imaginative ones, depict 
him as an old man, ancient beyond the reckoning of years, 
but with a keen, piercing gaze. Some attribute to him the 
pale, cold fires that may be spied at night blazing on the 
hilltops dotting the landscape around the east gap.
Motivation: I must perform my duty, but I do not know 
the way.
Expectations: +1 If the heroes heed Farmann’s warnings 
and thank him for his guidance; -2 if the heroes suggest 
that he should not be in the Narrows.
Frár the Beardless
Frár, called the Beardless, is one of the houseless Dwarves 
who live in the Narrows of the Grey Mountains. It is said 
he lost his beard when he was captured and tortured by 
Goblins in the ruins of the Dwarf-hall called the Greydelve, 
which was the home of his ancestors for many long ages 
until the Goblins took it. In truth, his beard was cut in a 
quarrel with servants of the Elvenking. 
Today, Frár is a wandering tinker and potsmith, travelling 
down as far as Lake-town on his journeys. Wherever he 
goes, he tells tales of the Goblins, and tries to rally the 
Dwarves and other Free Folk to his cause. Even the other 
Dwarves think Frár to be a madman, and fear that the 
Greydelve is forever lost to Durin’s folk.
Since the death of the Dragon and the re-establishment 
of the King under the Mountain, Frár has visited Dáin 
Ironfoot’s court once each year to demand that Dáin send 
warriors to reclaim the Greydelve. Whether Frár succeeds 
in his quest is a matter for The Mirkwood Campaign.
Frár knows all the Dwarves who live in the Narrows, and 
is a good guide to that region — to be more precise, he 
knows all the paths in that region as well as he remembers 
every knot and hair in his vanished beard. Whether or not 
he is a good travelling companion depends on his mood 
— on the wrong day, Frár can be as treacherous and bitter 
as a Petty-dwarf. He hates the Elves, who twice caught him 
trespassing in the Woodland Realm.

--- PAGE 23 ---
23
He wears a tooth from Scatha the Worm on a golden 
chain around his neck. This talisman is a reminder of all 
that has been taken from the Dwarves.
Motivations: The Greydelve is my birthright and I will 
regain it.
Expectations: Despite his diminished situation, Frár has 
the same expectations as a Dwarf-lord (page 78 of the 
Loremaster’s Guide ). Furthermore, anyone who mentions 
his missing facial hair or the Elves receives a -2 modifier to 
their Final Audience Check.
Frár the Beardless
Medium Dwarf
STR 
15 (+2)
DEX 
10 (+0)
CON 
16 (+3)
INT 
13 (+1)
WIS 
16 (+3)
CHA 
12 (+1)
Armour Class 16 (Ring-mail, Shield)
Hit Points 60 (8d8+24)
Speed 25 ft
Skills History +3, Shadow-lore +3, Perception +5, 
Survival +5
Senses passive Perception 15
Languages Dwarven, Westron
Challenge 2 (450 XP)
Region-lore (Grey Mountain Narrows). If Frár is with 
the Company for a journey that begins or ends in the 
Narrows, the Guide rolls 1d8+4 for the Embarkation Roll.
Old Hatred. When Frár fights Orc-kind, he rolls his 
damage die twice and selects the higher result. If you 
choose to use the average damage add +2.
Actions
Warhammer. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 6 (1d8+2) bludgeoning damage.
Tholin the Trader
The Blue Mountains lie many, many leagues to the west, 
and Tholin the Trader knows every long, hard mile — and 
every inn on the way, too. He is an old Dwarf, merry 
and kindly by the gruff standards of his folk, and for 
many lifetimes of Men he has travelled between the Blue 
Mountains and the Iron Hills. His regular route brings 
him from the Iron Hills to the Lonely Mountain and Dale 
(replacing his previous stop at Lake-town), then along the 
Narrows, south to the Old Ford, then over the High Pass 
into Eriador, where he always makes a point of visiting the 
Prancing Pony in Bree before passing through the Shire. The 
journey takes him half a year or more. Younger Dwarves 
(and even the occasional Hobbit) often accompany Tholin 
on his long treks, and he is a canny Guide. He has many 
friends both west and east of the Mountains, including a 
certain Wizard who is even better travelled than Tholin. In 
fact, it’s said that Gandalf enchanted Tholin’s blackthorn 
walking-staff.
Motivations: There’s always the next inn to get to, always 
another traveller to meet.
Expectations: +2 if the heroes ask Tholin about his travels, 
-1 if any asks him to lay down his burdens and rest.
Tholin the Trader
Medium Dwarf
STR 
14 (+2)
DEX 
10 (+0)
CON 
14 (+2)
INT 
16 (+3)
WIS 
15 (+2)
CHA 
14 (+2)
Armour Class 14 (Ring-mail)
Hit Points 39 (6d8+12)
Speed 25 ft
Skills Lore +5, Perception +4, Survival +4, Traditions +5
Senses passive Perception 14
Languages Dwarven, Westron
Challenge 1 (200 XP)
Blackthorn Walking Staff. If Tholin is the Guide for a 
journey, he rolls 1d4+4 for his Arrival Roll. Additionally, 
any attack he makes with his staff counts as magical.
Far Traveller. If the Company is travelling with Tholin, he 
may be assigned a journey role.
Walking Songs. If the companions travel with 
Tholin, once upon the journey they can make a DC 10 
Charisma (Performance) check. If successful, the hero 
gains Inspiration.
Actions
Staff. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 5 (1d6+2) magical bludgeoning damage.
Notable Places
The Hoary Mountain
The southern face of the Grey Mountains range is an 
uninterrupted wall of menacing peaks, rising tall to the 
west and slowly diminishing in the east. The tallest among 
them is known as the Gamolberg, the Hoary Mountain, a 
The Lands of the River

--- PAGE 24 ---
Rhovanion Region Guide
24
mighty height towering above deep-shadowed glens and 
dells. It takes its name from its snow-capped summit, that 
often appears streaked with grey, as the limestone surface 
is revealed by strong winds or by the warmer seasons’ 
thawing. Centuries ago, Men living in the north used 
to test their courage by climbing the mountain’s sheer 
southern face, and stories tell of a throne sitting atop a 
high terrace, carved in the grey rock by the North wind 
itself.
The Greydelve
The Dwarf-hold of the Greydelve lies hidden in a box 
canyon in the foothills of the Grey Mountains. It was 
once among the largest of the Dwarven settlements in this 
region, and the Dwarves dug very deep into the mountains. 
Some tales claim that they dug so deep that they broke 
into the ruins of some lost fortress from the First Age of the 
world, and found things there so terrible that they walled 
up those deeper passageways and warded them with traps 
both cunning and lethal.
 
The folk of this fortress were driven from their home by 
Goblins long ago. Frár the Beardless (see page 22) is their 
chief, and still dreams of reclaiming the Greydelve.
West Upper Vales
The green meadows of the West Upper Vales seem lush 
and inviting. Mountain-cold streams flow merrily through 
gently rolling countryside. Each step seems to open up new 
vistas, as though your eyes were the first to ever look upon 
this land, or you had somehow stepped back in time to 
when the world was young and Arda was Unmarred. But 
in the tongue of the Vales of Anduin, this land is named 
Sceadudene, the Vale of Shadow…
The northern border of this land is marked by the Langwell 
River. To the west, by the Misty Mountains, to the east 
Anduin, and to the south the river Rushdown that tumbles 
off the mountains over the Eagles’ Falls. Above the falls, 
the Rushdown receives the waters of another stream, 
sometimes called the Serpent River. 
Most of the Vales consist of green valleys of heather and 
grass, marked by the occasional thicket. Still, the going is 
surprisingly hard in places, with many concealed holes, 
jagged stones, tangled roots and sudden drops to slow 
travellers.
The western hills are steep and virtually impassable; 
in places, sheer cliffs rise from the green land like great 
waves of stone, and seem about to crash down on the 
heads of travellers. The largest of these cliffs, Fram’s Wall, 
runs for more than five miles without any breaks, and is 
said to be unscalable.
The southern folds of the land, along the Rushdown, are 
thickly wooded with grey pine forests that stretch from the 
Anduin into the foothills of the mountains. The southern 
forests are called the Wyrmholt on certain old maps, 
although they are usually called the Rushdown Woods in 
the Common Tongue. 
This is a wild, trackless land. Outside the settled region 
in the northeast, there are no settlements or paths in 
this area. This is the primordial wild, as untamed and 
dangerous as it was at the dawn of time.
E
E
E
E
E
The Long Delve
Eagles’ Falls
The Path of Serpents
 The North Ford
West Upper 
Vales

--- PAGE 25 ---
25
Combat Scenery: cliffs, covered pits, fallen trees, hedges 
of tree limbs, low boughs, moorland heather, roaring 
waters, slopes, thickets, unsettling atmosphere
Wildlife
A traveller in the West Upper Vales can expect to see 
traces of animals such as wild sheep and goats, foxes 
and wolves. Deer and boars may be found in the wooded 
regions, with the mountain slopes being home to bears. 
At night, swarms of bats emerge to hunt insects over the 
streams.
Wolves and Wargs are regrettably common in this region. 
Huge packs come down out of the north to hunt prey, 
on four legs or two. A dangerous breed of great lizards 
hides in the forests and hills along the Rushdown River. 
Ill-tempered and aggressive, these creatures are known 
by the Elves as Sarnlug, or Basilisks; the Elves claim that 
the Enemy bred these monsters long ago and unleashed 
them in the mountains to impede the Elves’ journeys to 
the West. Legends of the Beornings say that a Basilisk can 
kill just by gazing at its victims — a rumour that no hunter 
can confirm or deny. (Learn more about the Sarnlug on 
page 124).
Inhabitants
The north-eastern Vales, along the banks of the Anduin, 
are home to a few fiercely independent cottars and freefolk. 
These are of Northman stock, akin to the Beornings, but 
they call no man their lord. Each family has their own 
homestead, sometimes fortified, and they trade little with 
their neighbours and even less with strangers.
 
Some of them seem to have befriended a small number of 
Stone-trolls, with gifts of sheep, crude tools, and simple 
clothes. These lumbering monsters can be spied at night as 
they work in the fields dragging ploughs, eradicating small 
trees or breaking large stones, sometimes answering the 
direct orders of a farmer with a few words in the Common 
Speech. While contact with the farmers has certainly 
improved both their manners and tempers, Trolls are still 
Trolls, and any hero bothering their ‘employers’ may find 
confirmation of this fact the hard way. 
This land is not far from the Eagles’ Eyrie, so the birds of 
the Misty Mountains may be encountered in these parts. 
The Eagles hunt Wargs and other creatures of the Enemy, 
but also steal sheep and livestock from the cottars, and so 
they are not welcome in the northern Vales.
Notable Characters
Mab the Spinner
Mab the Spinner lives somewhere near the edge of the 
Rushdown Forest, in a little cottage in the woods. She 
is ancient for a mortal woman — none of the folk of the 
Sceadudene remember a time when Mab was not in 
her shack. She spins wool into threads and weaves fine 
garments, which she exchanges for food with the wives of 
local cottars. She has no family, but employs a River-folk 
child as a helper.
Mab also has a reputation as a witch. How else could she 
survive in the haunted forest? Certainly, she is as talented 
a healer as can be found in the vales, and has a deep 
knowledge of herbs, poisons, potions and simples. She 
is known for her strengthening cordial, a liquor she sells 
exclusively to the River-folk traders (see page 52).
.
The cottars of the area travel to her when they need a cure 
for pox or other illness, but they whisper about her strange 
powers over spiders, and wonder what happens to the 
River-folk children when she is done with them.
Motivations: My aid always comes with a price. Perhaps 
not today, but some-day, I will collect what I am owed.
Expectations: +2 Courtesy and coins are always welcome; 
-1 I have seen many bold folk wither and die — empty boasts 
do not impress me.
The Lands of the River

--- PAGE 26 ---
Rhovanion Region Guide
26
Cruac the Outlaw
Cruac leads an outlaw band that preys on travellers in the 
Vales. Few wanderers pass this way — most traffic runs 
along the Anduin, or along the eastern shore down to the 
Old Ford — so Cruac’s men must cross the river in their 
boats to find suitable victims. They look for Dwarves, who 
are always rich in silver and gold, or traders bringing fur 
down from the Gore of Anduin. Cruac’s hideout is in a 
sheltered valley in the heart of the region.
Cruac the Outlaw
Medium Human (Evil Men)
STR 
12 (+1)
DEX 
15 (+2)
CON 
14 (+2)
INT 
14 (+2)
WIS 
11 (+0)
CHA 
16 (+3)
Armour Class 15 (Hide Armour, Shield)
Hit Points 58 (9d8+18)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Deception +5, Investigation +4, Riddle +4, 
Traditions +4
Senses passive Perception 10
Languages Westron
Challenge 3 (700 XP)
Ambush. During his first turn, Cruac has Advantage on 
attack rolls against any creature that hasn’t taken a turn.
Coward. When injured, Cruac suffers Disadvantage on 
all combat rolls.
Actions
Short Bow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, range 
80/320 ft, one target. Hit: 5 (1d6+2) piercing damage.
Terrorise. Cruac targets up to three intelligent creatures 
he can see within 30 feet. If there are more outlaws 
present than targets of this ability, then those targets must 
succeed on a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw or become 
Frightened until the end of his next turn.
Cruac does not look like a fearsome outlaw. He is a slight, 
meek-mannered fellow who stands no more than five 
feet high, with a scraggly beard and a growing bald spot. 
He won his place at the head of his company through 
his cleverness and bravery, not through strength. He is 
an accomplished liar; he sometimes befriends travellers 
and lures them into ambushes, or visits the Beorning 
settlements to learn if they are hunting him. Cruac lets 
his loyal men do the fighting for him — as far as he’s 
concerned, battles are won in the mind long before they 
are fought by force of arms.
Motivation: Are you a mark? Or more trouble than you 
are worth?.
Expectations: +2 Foolish words lead to foolish deeds — if 
the heroes seem confused or uncertain; -2 If the heroes 
respond with violence with little provocation.
Black Tom
The house of Black Tom is a fortified farmstead in the east 
of the Sceadudene, with many outbuildings and enclosures 
for livestock. Tom is the head of a large household, and 
his word carries great weight among the cottars. The 
proud folk of this land have no lords or chieftains or 
kings, but they listen when Tom speaks. 
Of late, Tom has been visited by emissaries from the 
Viglundings across the river (see the East Upper Vales, 
page 29), who offered him gold and promised him a 
place of honour if he took Viglund as his lord. Their 
threats went unspoken, but were just as clear despite 
this. Refuse Viglund’s offer of friendship, and suffer the 
consequences. Tom’s farm is not far from the Anduin. If 
the Viglundings come for him, his thick walls may not 
protect his family from the iron collars of the slavers.
Black Tom
Medium Human
STR 
14 (+2)
DEX 
11 (+0)
CON 
17 (+3)
INT 
12 (+1)
WIS 
15 (+2)
CHA 
12 (+1)
Armour Class 14 (Hide Armour, Shield)
Hit Points 45 (6d8+18)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Intimidation +3, Performance +3, Survival +4
Senses passive Perception 12
Languages Westron
Challenge 1 (200 XP)
Berserk. After the first round of combat, Tom may make 
a single melee weapon attack as a bonus action on each 
of his turns.
Call the Dogs. Once per short or long rest, Tom may 
whistle for his dogs, calling 1d4 Mastiffs to aid him. They 
arrive at the end of his next turn.
Actions
Axe. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 6 (1d8+2) slashing damage or 7 (1d10+2) 
slashing damage if used with both hands.

--- PAGE 27 ---
27
Motivations and Expectations: Tom shares the qualities 
of his fellow farmers (page 71 of the Loremaster’s Guide ).
The Lonely Giant
The story of the Lonely Giant is probably a drunken tale 
told by young Beornings after too much mead, but there 
may be a little truth in it. According to the story, a Giant 
came down from the Misty Mountains a year ago and is 
now camped in a dell. The Giant eats roasted boar and 
wild apples, and lives in a tent made from the skins of two 
dozen bears, with mighty oak-trees for poles. If anyone 
disturbs him, he asks them a fiendishly hard riddle. No-
one knows what happens if you guess his riddle correctly, 
but everyone knows what happens when you get it wrong 
— the Giant smashes you with a very big rock!
Should the Lonely Giant appear in your game, he might 
be a Mountain-troll with a Intelligence of 14 (+2) and a 
Riddle skill of +5.
The Kingfisher Lord
The Lord of the Eagles of the Misty Mountains is the 
King of All Birds, crowned in Dwarf-gold. All the birds of 
Middle-earth obey him and honour him, but he was not 
the only contender for the title. His rival was the Kingfisher 
Lord. The Kingfisher Lord dwells in a golden nest along the 
River Anduin, and is very bitter about the accolades paid 
to the Lord of the Eagles. 
Since the coronation, the Kingfisher Lord has plotted 
against the Eagles, his heart filled with jealousy. He rules 
the fish and fowl of the Anduin, and hears many stories 
from the river. He can even command his servants to 
trouble intruders — a school of trout or a flock of sparrows 
are not going to defeat a warrior of Dale, but they could 
topple his boat into the water or steal his food. 
The Kingfisher is not a servant of the Shadow by any 
means, but he plays cruel tricks on friends of the Eagles 
who enter his domain. As an ally, he can be a valuable 
source of news from far afield.
Motivation: I will show the Eagles who is the true Lord 
of the Birds!
Expectations: +2 if the companions have a quarrel with 
the Lord of the Eagle; -1 If the heroes ask the Kingfisher 
Lord to set aside his feelings for any reason.
Notable Places
The Long Delve
The Long Delve is a tunnel that starts somewhere near 
the source of the Rushdown River, and worms its way 
underground for sixty miles through the Misty Mountains 
to emerge in the valley of the Hoarwell in Rhudaur. Parts 
of the excavations were accomplished by Dwarves in the 
First Age, but only Orcs know its secret ways now. Not all 
the length of the Long Delve is passable, and in places 
fallen rocks block the way, but the Orcs have dug side 
passages to crawl through. Only the smaller Goblins can 
pass through the tunnel — the fatter Orcs have trouble 
squeezing through, and Cave-Trolls cannot fit at all.
At times, parts of the Long Delve flood — the Dwarves 
widened the natural caves carved by the fast-flowing 
rivers, so when rain filters down through the mountains, 
The Lands of the River

--- PAGE 28 ---
Rhovanion Region Guide
28
it washes unwary Goblins out of the tunnel. Their bodies 
wash up on the banks of the Rushdown a few days later. 
The Orcs guard the Long Delve with all sorts of cunning 
traps, and ambush anyone who tries to trespass through 
their short cut. The entrances to the tunnel are watched 
night and day by Goblin spies, and there are guardhouses 
along its length to turn back intruders.
 
During the height of power of the Kingdom of Angmar, the 
Witch-king sent Men from Carn Dûm to repair the Long 
Delve and open it so a whole army could march through 
it. This plan never came to fruition, but the Enemy knows 
of the underground passage, and it could offer a way to 
invade Eriador without braving the High Pass or the Gap 
of Rohan.
Eagles’ Falls
The Rushdown River tumbles over the high Eagles’ Falls, 
plunging more than sixty feet over a rocky ledge to a deep 
green pool in the forest below. Two huge trees grow over 
the falls. These trees are unlike any that grow elsewhere in 
Middle-earth, as they were found only in Númenor before 
it drowned. Their seeds were brought here by Great Eagles 
before the Downfall.
This place is sacred to the Eagles of the Misty Mountains; 
they gather here at midsummer to listen to the voice of 
the waterfall. Radagast believes that on that night, the 
waterfall speaks prophecies and secrets to the Great 
Eagles. Anyone who tries to eavesdrop on the Eagles 
risks incurring their wrath, and they are merciless when 
roused.
The Path of Serpents
The Path of Serpents is an old, old road that begins near 
the Anduin and crosses through the southern portion of 
the West Upper Vales. It winds through the countryside, 
distinguishable from the land on either side only by a 
slight discolouration of the grass and the occasional 
carved waystone, before plunging into the Rushdown 
Forest.
The waystones in the forest were sheltered by the trees and 
are better-preserved than those exposed to the elements. 
These stones stand four feet tall and are carved to resemble 
strange snakes or dragons. The stones have hollow eye-
sockets, as if made to hold gemstones. The path leads 
on into the forest, and where it goes no one knows. The 
path goes through regions of the forest inhabited by the 
Sarnlug, and they are always hungry… 
The North Ford
The North Ford is the first place south of the Gore where 
the Anduin can be crossed without swimming or boating. 
It is only fordable when the river is low, at the height of 
summer or after a prolonged drought, and even then it 
is a perilous crossing, as the fast-flowing waters can 
sweep away the unwary. The days when the North Ford is 
passable are used by livestock traders, who can drive their 
herds across the Anduin without the expense and risk of 
using rafts or boats.
East Upper Vales
The east side of the White Anduin is a grim wold of scrub 
trees and rocky soil. It makes for poor farmland. In days 
of old, this was the eastern frontier of Éothéod, and it was 
called the Eastmark. Back then, it was thickly forested, 
but the horse-people were hungry for timber to build their 
long-houses, and their axes bit deep into Mirkwood as 
their ancestors had done in the East Bight.

--- PAGE 29 ---
29
To the north, the forest falls away and the Vales of 
Anduin open into the Narrows in the shadows of the Grey 
Mountains. No one lives here, not even along the eaves of the 
Forest as everyone fears its darkness. Northern Mirkwood 
(see page 78) is a tangled forest full of perils and monsters, 
and they are wise to fear the shadows of the trees. The only 
travellers who brave this land are taciturn Dwarves and 
traders hurrying west from Esgaroth and Dale.
The riverbanks and the southern vales, by contrast, are 
more fertile and welcoming. These green valleys are 
home to hardy Northmen of the House of Viglund. The 
land here is twisted and buckled like a thrashing snake, 
with many steep-sided valleys divided by narrow stony 
ridges. In places, tall piles or pinnacles of stones rise from 
the ground; the Viglundings claim these stones to be the 
ancient work of Giants who once dwelt in this land.
Combat Scenery: lone trees, ravines, root-covered walls, 
scattered rocks, standing stones (huge boulders), steep 
slopes, stone pillars 
Wildlife
The north and east parts of the East Upper Vales are 
plagued by beasts like wild wolves and Wargs. Dangerous 
boars and bears sometimes stray out of Mirkwood, and 
the Viglunding hunters cannot always stop them from 
trespassing into the farmland. The forest eaves are home 
to flocks of black crows and other birds, especially 
around the Forest Gate. The eastern banks of the Great 
River are also home to many venomous snakes, who 
make their lairs beneath rocks and prey on insects and 
small animals.
Inhabitants
The people of the Eastmark are akin to the cottars of the 
western portion of the Upper Vales, but they are mostly 
united under a chieftain named Viglund. They dwell 
in the green lands of the southern valleys, or along the 
forest eaves. They hew the forest for timber, but they are 
not Woodmen, and only the bravest of them dare dwell 
beneath the trees. Most live in fortified houses and forts 
atop hills, where three or four families live together behind 
the protection of good walls and ramparts. 
Not all the Viglundings obey Viglund, although those 
who defy him are increasingly isolated and treated as 
foes. Viglund became chieftain in the dark years before 
the Battle of Five Armies, when Goblins troubled the land 
and the power of the Necromancer grew unchecked. Now, 
he rules through fear and strength of arms. His war-band 
consists of the best fighters the Eastmark can muster, and 
all these warriors support Viglund’s cruel reign. 
The folk of the Eastmark practise slavery. Traditionally 
among the Northmen, only criminals could be made into 
thralls, and the influence of Gondor put an end to even that 
practise for centuries. It was only in the last few decades 
that slavery has once again come into use in the Vales 
of Anduin. The slaves of the Eastmark come from many 
places — from the free cottars, from the Hill-men who live 
across the river, from the Beornings, captured outlaws, 
and even from their own kin. They put their thralls to work 
tilling the fields or serving in the houses.
Between the Viglundings and the land of the Beornings 
is a belt of free cottars and foresters who live in the lands 
immediately surrounding the Forest Gate. There is a 
fierce rivalry between the Viglundings and the followers 
E
E
The Mouth of Dust
The Elfwood
East
Upper Vales
The Lands of the River

--- PAGE 30 ---
Rhovanion Region Guide
30
Strange Faces in Familiar Lands
"I evidently came back by much too straight a road from my trip."
Adding new material to regions that the Company has already explored is a tricky business. if your Companions are 
regular visitors to the East Upper Vales, then they might ask why they have never met the Viglundings before. if 
they know the River well, then why did they not meet with the River-folk? There are several possible explanations 
— choose the one that best fits the current situation:
• 
The adventurers travelled through uninhabited parts of the region. Wilderland is very large, and there are 
only a handful of people living within its borders. The company’s previous journeys happened to avoid any 
settlements, either by chance or design. 
• 
The people were away in another part of the region. Even comparatively settled groups like the Beornings or 
Viglundings move with the seasons. If the Company passed through this land in the winter, then maybe most 
people were in their winter shelters and so the adventurers passed by unnoticed. Groups like the River-folk 
travel the whole length of Wilderland, so it is easy to miss them if one crosses the Anduin at the wrong time.
• 
The adventurers met them, but did not know them. The Viglundings, for example, have a bad reputation as 
slavers, but that does not mean that every Viglunding is equally awful. Perhaps that friendly farmer that the 
adventurers met on a previous journey was actually a follower of Viglund, even though he keeps no slaves and 
is friendly to outsiders. 
• 
The adventurers deliberately avoided them. This is perhaps the most interesting option — why did the Company’s 
Guide steer them away from places where they might meet the people of this land? What unfinished business do 
they have with him?

--- PAGE 31 ---
31
of Beorn, and this sentiment has worsened of late. The 
Viglundings covet the lands of the Beornings, and there 
are old grudges held by those who saw their kin enslaved 
by raiders from the north. Dwarves crossing from Erebor 
or the Iron Hills to their mines in Eriador often come this 
way. They march across the wastes north of Mirkwood, 
then follow the river south to the Old Ford. They trade 
grudgingly with the Viglundings, and neither group trusts 
the other.
Notable Characters
Viglund
Cruel Viglund, grey-bearded and iron-eyed, rules from his 
long-house under the eaves of Northern Mirkwood, and 
he tolerates no weakness or dissent among his followers. 
His clan would kill or die at a word from their lord. He tells 
himself that he must be hard to protect his followers from 
the dangers that beset them on every side, but in truth 
Viglund is a tyrant, drunk on power.He has a fierce hatred 
for Beorn, and the two may be kin. Viglund is not as large 
as Beorn, nor as strong, and if he is a skin-changer, as 
some folk whisper, then no-one knows what form he takes 
when he walks abroad at night. 
His rivalry with Beorn began when the lord of the Carrock 
took some of those who fled Viglund’s rule under his 
protection. Since then, Viglund has poisoned the minds of 
his remaining followers against the Beornings, claiming 
that they are savage beasts and monsters. 
Viglund’s followers practise slavery, and capture thralls 
on raids. Some are Beornings or cottars from the western 
vales; others are Goblins, but the misshapen creatures 
Viglund
Medium Human (Evil Men)
STR 
19 (+4)
DEX 
15 (+2)
CON 
19 (+4)
INT 
12 (+1)
WIS 
11 (+0)
CHA 
14 (+2)
Armour Class 20 (Scale Hauberk, Great Shield)
Hit Points 102 (12d8+48)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Intimidation +5, Perception +3, Shadow-lore +4
Senses passive Perception 13
Languages Westron
Challenge 6 (2,300 XP)
Fell Speed. Viglund may take a bonus action to 
Disengage from one opponent and engage another 
without provoking an opportunity attack. The new 
opponent must be within his regular movement rate.
Hatred (Beornings) (Recharge 5-6). Viglund hates 
Beornings so much that he can use his bonus action to 
gain Advantage on attacks against them this round.
Hideous Toughness (Recharge after a short or 
long rest). Viglund can endure enormous damage. By 
spending his action taunting his enemies, he gains a pool
of 10 (3d6) temporary hit points that last till the end of the 
fight if not removed by combat damage.
No Quarter. When Viglund reduces an enemy to 0 hit 
points that enemy is considered to already have failed one 
death save.
Actions
Multiattack. Viglund makes three attacks with his axe.
Axe. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 8 (1d8+4) slashing damage or 9 (1d10+4) 
slashing damage if used with both hands.
Reactions
Commanding Voice. Viglund can inspire his allies 
with his booming voice and kingly mien. He may use 
his reaction to utter a command or shout a warning 
whenever a non-hostile creature, that he can see within 
30 feet, is about to make an attack roll or a saving throw. 
The target can add a d6 Command Die to its next roll, 
provided it can hear and understand the message. A 
creature can benefit from only one Command Die at a 
time, and creatures that possess Commanding Voice 
cannot benefit from this effect.
The Lands of the River

--- PAGE 32 ---
Rhovanion Region Guide
32
cannot abide the light of day and so make poor farmhands. 
Viglund uses these Goblin slaves as beaters and scouts 
when he hunts in the forest. Conflict between Viglund 
and the Beornings is a key element in The Mirkwood 
Campaign.
Motivations: My word is law. Obey, or face my wrath.
Expectations: +2 Strength is what matters — if the heroes 
pledge to fight for Viglund; -1 If the heroes object to slave-
holding, or mention Beorn.
Viglar
Viglar is the eldest of Viglund’s sons. He leads the raiding 
parties and warbands sent out by his father. More 
accurately, he follows along with wineskin in one hand 
and axe in the other — he is more interested in feasting and 
drinking with his fellow warriors than anything else. He has 
little grasp of tactics, or politics, or anything except crude 
jokes and drinking games. When sober — or at least, only 
a little drunk — he is a good axeman. Viglar is Viglund’s 
presumed heir. Without a strong leader, the Viglundings 
may fall into savagery and kinstrife when Viglund dies.
Viglar
Medium Human (Evil Men)
STR 
16 (+3)
DEX 
15 (+2)
CON 
16 (+3)
INT 
10 (+0)
WIS 
8 (-1)
CHA 
13 (+1)
Armour Class 17 (Corslet of Mail, Shield)
Hit Points 60 (8d8+24)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Performance +3, Persuasion +3
Senses passive Perception 9
Languages Westron
Challenge 3 (700 XP)
Horrible Strength. If Viglar makes a successful melee 
attack, he may use his bonus action to cause 3 additional 
damage of the same type as the original type.
Reckless. Viglar may choose to gain Advantage on all 
attacks he makes in a round, but all attacks on him gain 
Advantage until the start of his next turn.
Actions
Multiattack. Viglar makes two attacks with his axe.
Axe. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 7 (1d8+3) slashing damage or 8 (1d10+3) 
slashing damage if used with both hands.
Motivations: More drink, for tomorrow death may come 
for us!
Expectations: +2 if the heroes amuse Viglar, or bring gifts 
he will appreciate; -1 If the heroes question his authority 
or mock him.
Saviga the Goblin
There are a few captured Goblins among the Viglunding 
slaves. These unfortunate creatures rarely survive for long 
far from the shadow of the mountains. Saviga, though, 
has learned to survive in Viglar’s retinue. The Goblin is 
Viglar’s cup-bearer and jester; his caperings and vile jests 
make the son of Viglund laugh until he retches, and so 
Saviga survives for another day.
Saviga the Goblin
Small humanoid (Orc-kind)
STR 
13 (+1)
DEX 
12 (+1)
CON 
11 (+0)
INT 
12 (+1)
WIS 
10 (+0)
CHA 
13 (+1)
Armour Class 14 (Orcish Leathers, Shield)
Hit Points 10 (3d6)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Deception +3, Persuasion +3, Stealth +5
Senses darkvision 60 ft, passive Perception 10
Languages Orkish, Westron
Challenge 1 (200 XP)
Distraction Attack. Saviga is wily and can take his 
bonus action to feint, kick burning ash, or otherwise 
distract an opponent with whom he is engaged in melee. 
The opponent must make a DC 11 Wisdom saving throw 
or Saviga’s attacks have Advantage against the opponent 
until the end of his next turn.
Nimble Escape. Saviga can take the Disengage or Hide 
action as a bonus action on each of his turns.
Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, Saviga has 
Disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks that rely on sight.
Actions
Multiattack. Saviga makes two attacks with his spear.
Spear. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 
5 ft or range 20/60 ft, one target. Hit: 4 (1d6+1) piercing 
damage or 5 (1d8+1) piercing damage if used with two 
hands to make a melee attack.
Reactions
Parry. Saviga adds 2 to his AC against one melee attack 
that would hit him. To do so, the goblin must see the 
attacker and be wielding a melee weapon.

--- PAGE 33 ---
33
In truth, Saviga also gives secret counsel to Viglar, 
suggesting targets for raids, playing one warrior off 
against each other, and tempting Viglar into the worship 
of the Enemy. Should Viglar become chieftain, then 
Saviga will continue to whisper poison into his ear. Saviga 
is not usually allowed to bear arms, but should his life be 
threatened, he would try to get hold of a spear, a weapon 
he wields to great effect.
Motivation: Viglar’s strength is my strength, for now. 
Expectations: +1 if the heroes agree to Saviga’s plans; -2 
if they treat him with respect (it must be a trick).
Thunar
Thunar was one of Viglar’s warrior companions. Indeed, 
Thunar was the best of them; he was the bravest, the 
strongest, the most skilled with axe and bow, and the most 
fearsome in battle. Two years ago, Viglar, Thunar and the 
rest of the young warriors of the Viglundings went hunting 
in Mirkwood. A huge black boar scattered them and gored 
Thunar, and hurled him into a ravine. Viglar fled rather 
than try to rescue his friend. 
Thunar
Medium Human (Evil Men)
STR 
14 (+2)
DEX 
17 (+3)
CON 
17 (+3)
INT 
10 (+0)
WIS 
10 (+0)
CHA 
11 (+1)
Armour Class 17 (Leather Corslet, Shield)
Hit Points 45 (6d8+18)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Athletics +4, Survival +3
Senses passive Perception 10
Languages Westron
Challenge 2 (450 XP)
Savage Assault. If Thunar rolls a natural 18 or 19 on a 
melee attack roll, he may use his bonus action to make an 
additional melee attack against the same opponent.
Stalker. If Thunar spends at least one minute observing 
his opponents before attacking, he gains Advantage on all 
his attacks for the first 1d3 rounds of combat.
Actions
Axe. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 6 (1d8+2) slashing damage or 7 (1d10+2) 
slashing damage if used with both hands.
Short Bow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, range 
80/320 ft, one target. Hit: 6 (1d6+3) piercing damage.
Thunar survived, and wandered alone through Mirkwood 
for weeks before emerging from the darkness of the wood. 
It took him more than a year to recover his strength. 
Now, he is once again strong enough to lead hunts and 
raiding parties. He curses Viglar for his cowardice, and 
the two — once close as brothers — are now bitter foes.
Aestid
Tall Aestid is Viglund’s daughter, and betrothed to one 
of his important followers, a brute of a man named 
Othbald. She despises Othbald, and secretly loves a 
young Beorning warrior. Aestid plans to escape her 
betrothal and flee across Wilderland, but if she goes, 
then Othbald will surely pursue her and bring fire and 
bloodshed with him. 
Unlike her cruel father, there is little malice in Aestid’s 
soul. Therefore, she has conceived a plan — she intends 
to free all Othbald’s slaves on the night she flees. Othbald 
will have to choose between his bride and his servants, 
and will be unable to recapture them all.
Aestid
Medium Human
STR 
12 (+1)
DEX 
16 (+3)
CON 
13 (+1)
INT 
10 (+0)
WIS 
12 (+1)
CHA 
10 (+0)
Armour Class 15 (Leather Corslet)
Hit Points 38 (7d8+7)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Stealth +5, Survival +3, Traditions +2
Senses passive Perception 11
Languages Westron
Challenge 1 (200 XP)
Region-lore (East Upper Vales). If Aestid is with the 
Company for a journey that begins or ends in the East 
Upper Vales, the Guide rolls 1d8+4 for the Embarkation 
Roll.
Sneaking (Recharge 6). Aestid inflicts 7 (2d6) extra 
damage to a target she hits with her great axe if her ally is 
within 5 feet of the target.
Actions
Great Axe. Melee Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 7 (1d12+1) slashing damage.
The Lands of the River

--- PAGE 34 ---
Rhovanion Region Guide
34
Notable Places
The Mouth of Dust
The Mouth of Dust refers to the pass that leads out of the 
Vales of Anduin and into the ghastly narrows between 
Mirkwood and the Grey Mountains. A huge standing 
stone marks the entrance to the pass; the Dwarves often 
bury supply caches and money near the stone for their 
return journey across the wastes. 
These caches are hidden using Dwarf-magic, and none 
may find them unless he catches the Dwarf and shakes 
the secret out of him.
The Elfwood
The thinly wooded land around the Forest Gate is called 
the Elfwood. It is not part of Mirkwood proper. The trees 
are not tangled and dark, and a little light makes it through 
the canopy of dark green leaves. 
In times past, the Elves of the Woodland Realm came here 
to feast and make merry, and some even left the shadows 
of the forest to walk down to the river and speak to the 
rushing waters. Today, the Elfwood is a barrier between 
the Upper and Middle Vales, and so serves as the border 
between Beorn’s territory and that of Viglund.
New Fellowship Phase Undertaking: 
Gather Firewood in the Elfwood
Firewood gathered from the Elfwood — a region of 
Mirkwood that is mostly free from Shadow-taint — 
burns warmly and merrily, raising spirits and warding 
off the bite of winter. When dried, it catches fire easily 
even in the worst conditions. 
A character spending a Fellowship phase at Beorn’s 
House 
or 
someplace 
nearby 
may 
choose 
this 
undertaking and gather enough firewood for the 
following Adventuring phase that whenever a Journey 
Event allows them to recover Exhaustion they also 
gain Inspiration as an additional benefit.
West Middle Vales
The West Middle Vales were Bilbo Baggins’ first taste 
of Wilderland east of the mountains. The area has long 
been empty. Men dwelt here, long ago, but plague and 
war and goblin-mischief drove them away. Now, they are 
returning. The region extends from the Rushdown River 
to the Old Forest Road. Pine forests grow in the mountain 
valleys, broken by great expanses of bracken and stony 
ground. 
Three large valleys dominate the western section. The 
north valley is bordered by the Rushdown River and the 
Rushdown Woods. South of the river, the trees thin out 
into a broken land of brambles and bare stones riven by 
many caves. The middle valley is called Earnesdene, the 
Eagles’ Vale, for their great Eyrie dominates it. The Eyrie 
is a soaring pinnacle of rock, the easternmost spire of 
the Misty Mountains, with numerous ledges and perches 
along its height. Only a flying creature could hope to 
reach these high ledges. The valley below is home to many 
E
E
E
E
E
The High Pass
The Back Door
The Eyrie
The Burned Glade
Elendil’s Camp 
West Middle 
Vales

--- PAGE 35 ---
35
furtive, frightened things who dread the swoop of Eagle’s 
wings. This valley is mostly pine forest, with oaks and 
elms growing closer to the Great River banks.
The southernmost valley opens into the High Pass (Cirith 
Forn en Andrath in Sindarin) and is the only place where 
one might reasonably expect to meet another traveller, as 
the road to the mountain-path runs through this land. 
This valley has been the access to the west since before the 
Sun and Moon rose in the sky. Elves climbed these hills on 
the way to the Blessed Realm, the Númenoreans built the 
road straight and true in days of yore, and Elendil and Gil-
galad marched down this road on the way to Mordor. This 
is The Road — the Road to Mirkwood, the Road to the Sea, 
the Road to Adventure.
As the hills and valleys give way to flatter ground, the 
traveller enters a great green plain that stretches for miles 
down to the river.
Combat Scenery: brambles (briar patches), bogs, cliffs, 
hedges of tree limbs, paths, rocky outcroppings, slopes, 
thickets, warm golden sun
Wildlife
In the pine forests of the mountains live rabbits, squirrels 
and mountain foxes. Serpents are a danger in the north 
valley, near the Rushdown. Closer to the river live otters, 
beavers and other river-creatures. This territory was 
Warg-land once, but between the Eagles and the vigilance 
of the Beornings, the wild wolves only dare cross into 
this land during the winter or on cloudy nights when the 
Eagles cannot spot them from afar.
Inhabitants
Goblin-town lies under the Misty Mountains, and the 
Orcs issue forth from innumerable holes and secret 
passageways to trouble the lands below. Thousands of 
Orcs live in this region, all eager to avenge the death of the 
Great Goblin. Since the Battle of Five Armies, they have 
rebuilt their strength, and there is a new Great Goblin 
under the mountain now.
The Great Eagles fly far over Middle-earth, even to the 
distant mouths of the Anduin and the sea, but these 
mountains are their home. They are not common creatures 
— their goals and motivations are unfathomable by 
everyone including the Wise, and possibly serve a greater 
purpose. They watch over the land, and bring messages to 
those who are enemies of the one Enemy. Their numbers 
are few, and they have little traffic with mortals (except 
when stealing their delicious sheep). The Eyrie is the 
largest of their nests in the mountains.
Men also dwell in small numbers in the mountains. These 
folk are as hard and stern as the places they call home, and 
speak their own strange tongue as well as the Common 
Speech. They serve Beorn, but remain suspicious and 
private even when among fellow Beornings. “As tough as 
the Mountain-men,” say the Beornings, but when they are 
gone they also say “as cold as the Mountain-men”.
In recent years, a few other bold folk have come up from 
the south to settle in this land. They have farms and herds 
on the west banks of the River. They count Beorn as their 
lord, but they are not like the rest of the Beornings. Most 
of Beorn’s followers are Northmen whose families have 
dwelt in the Middle Vales for centuries, but these folk are 
closer kin to the Leofrings or the River-folk.
Notable Characters
The Lord of the Eagles
Gwaihir the Windlord rules over the Great Eagles of 
the Misty Mountains, and is the King of All Birds. He is 
descended from Thorondor, who built his eyries in the 
inaccessible peaks of the Encircling Mountains when the 
world was young. Gandalf healed the Lord of the Eagles 
when he was wounded by an Orc-arrow, and has had the 
friendship of the birds ever since.
 
Other Eagles in the Lord’s retinue include his brother 
Landroval, brave Gaerthor and young Meneldor. These 
are like knights errant in the Lord’s court, flying far afield 
on missions and matters of grave importance. The other 
Eagles serve as watchers and warriors, bringing news of 
the Enemy from one end of the Misty Mountains to the 
other. In the darkest of times, the Lord of the Eagles may 
muster his forces and bring his army to war. This has only 
happened once in memory, when the Eagles came to the 
Battle of Five Armies. 
The Lord of the Eagles is more proud and noble than any 
king of mortal Men, for his lineage is far older. Only the 
The Lands of the River

--- PAGE 36 ---
Rhovanion Region Guide
36

--- PAGE 37 ---
37
High Elves have a heritage to match that of the Eagles. 
Anyone who treats the Lord as nothing more than an 
overgrown bird deserves his fate (the Eagles have been 
known to drop rude guests from a great height, or deposit 
them in unpleasant places like half-way up sheer cliffs or 
in the middle of a huge briar patch). Careful attention to 
Traditions is of the utmost importance when dealing with 
such a great King.
Meeting the Lord of the Eagles
Unless the companions have a way of calling the 
attention of the Great Eagles, then the only ways to 
encounter their Lord are either to climb the mountains 
to get near to their Eyrie, or to catch their eye by 
chance. If brought before the Lord of the Eagles, then 
the companions must be extremely polite and respectful. 
Lying to an Eagle is a very, very bad idea, because 
there’s every chance they’ll catch you out. The Eagles 
see very far indeed…
The Lord of the Eagles considers Elves and Dwarves 
as Friendly, whilst all other cultures are Neutral, 
other than Beornings and Woodmen of which he is 
Mistrustful, as their bows drive his followers away 
from tasty sheep.
The Lord of the Eagles as a Patron
It is unlikely that any band of companions would gain 
the Lord of the Eagles as a patron, but committed 
enemies of the Shadow may be recruited as agents on 
the ground. The Eagles were sent by the Powers of 
the world to watch the movements of the Enemy, so 
any tasks given by the Lord of the Eagles will involve 
spying on the Enemy’s servants, or thwarting the 
Enemy’s plans.
The New Great Goblin
Gandalf slew the old Great Goblin in Goblin-town, 
but the title is hereditary. (Well, in truth, it goes to the 
biggest, fattest, meanest Goblin). The New Great Goblin 
is actually the third Great Goblin in recent years — the 
second Great Goblin died at the Battle of Five Armies, torn 
apart by Beorn’s claws. The new incumbent is immensely 
horrible, and has a special hatred of the Beornings. The 
Orcs used to prey on travellers in the Misty Mountains, 
but now the Beornings guard the Old Ford and the High 
Pass, and the Orcs have much less success. That’s three 
grudges to be avenged upon the Beornings — one for 
sheltering the murderers of the first Great Goblin, one for 
killing the second Great Goblin at Erebor, and a third for 
inconveniencing the new Great Goblin. Learn more about 
the Greatest Goblin (as he styles himself) on page 131.
Osred the Rider
The newcomers who settled along the west bank of the 
Anduin count Beorn as their chief, but it was Osred who 
brought them to this green land. Osred was a famous 
warrior in his youth, and while his beard is now grey 
and his pate bald as the Carrock, he still has the respect 
and love of his followers. He commands a company of 
mounted warriors who patrol the roads from the Old 
Ford to the base of the High Pass, and is responsible for 
protecting travellers and collecting tolls.
Indeed, some of the Beornings grumble about Osred’s 
tight grip on the tolls, and fear that his wealth and 
influence will one day eclipse that of Beorn. So far, Beorn 
has shown little interest in gold or in power, while each 
year Osred’s furs grow more fancy and more golden 
bands adorn his arms. Osred has many friends and allies 
The Lands of the River

--- PAGE 38 ---
Rhovanion Region Guide
38
among the travellers on the road; he has contacts among 
the Dwarves and the River-folk and the merchants and 
even among the Elves.
Motivation: To protect the High Pass requires both war-
gear and valour; neither is cheap.
Expectations: +1 if the heroes tell him tales of far away, 
especially the South; +2 if they bring expensive gifts, -1 if 
they insult him or call him greedy.
Osred
Medium Human
STR 
15 (+2)
DEX 
13 (+1)
CON 
13 (+1)
INT 
10 (+0)
WIS 
15 (+2)
CHA 
13 (+1)
Armour Class 15 (Leather Corslet, Shield)
Hit Points 49 (9d8+9)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Animal Handling +6, Persuasion +3, Traditions +2
Senses passive Perception 12
Languages Westron
Challenge 1 (200 XP)
Rider. Osred is often found astride his palfrey (riding horse).
Born to the Saddle. Osred has Advantage on all 
Wisdom (Animal Handling) checks.
Actions
Glinting Spear Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to 
hit, reach 5 ft or range 20/60 ft, one target. Hit: 6 (1d6+3) 
piercing damage or 7 (1d8+3) piercing damage if used with 
two hands to make a melee attack. If Osred successfully 
hits on the first round of combat add +2 to his damage.
Notable Places
The High Pass
Cirith Forn en Andrath rises from the Vales of Anduin in a 
winding road. In places, this road is little more than a dirt 
track or a scar on the landscape, but in others the ancient 
works of the Dwarves can still be seen. The road is well 
designed, and rises above bogs and other obstacles on a 
ridge of packed earth and stone.The High Pass actually 
consists of two paths. The road originally ran along the 
sheltered lower pass, but over the centuries the Orcs 
encroached on it, and now the low road is riddled with 
secret caves and tunnel exits. Any traveller who braves 
the low road is almost certain to be targeted by Goblin 
archers, so it is only used in times when the Orcs are in 
retreat. The Battle of Five Armies opened up the low road 
for a time, but now it is perilous once again.
The high road is not a road at all — it is a mountain path, 
more suitable for sure-footed goats than most travellers! It 
climbs high above the valley below, almost into the land of 
the Storm Giants. Orcs and Goblins have few caves along 
this path (although, as Thorin and company discovered, 
they do have some!), so travellers are less likely to be 
molested, but much more likely to freeze to death or fall 
from a crumbling cliff.
The Back Door
This is the lowest of the exits from the warren of tunnels 
and caves around Goblin-town. The tunnel emerges from 
the mountains at one end of a narrow valley near the High 
Pass. The way is blocked by a stone door that looks just 
like part of the hillside when closed, so only a Goblin or a 
keen-eyed Dwarf can tell where the Back Door hides. The 
Orcs have a guard post on the far side of the door, and 
there are lots of hidden spyholes and watchtowers in the 
valley beyond, so they will know if anyone tries to sneak 
up on them.
The Eyrie
This sheer-sided mountain resembles a lonely watchtower, 
standing vigilant over the Vales of Anduin. The lower 
slopes of the mountain are shrouded in pine trees and 
furze, but the upper part is bare rock with scarcely a crack 
or a stone to provide a foothold. The Great Eagles nest 
in the crags atop the Eyrie, on rough rocky ledges and 
platforms.

--- PAGE 39 ---
39
A wider shelf of rock protrudes from the mountain-side, 
facing west. It is reached by no path known to Men: it is 
the Great Shelf, where the Eagles meet in parliament and 
where they bring guests and prisoners they wish to have 
dealings with. The Beornings say that there are secret 
passages in the mountain that lead up to the Great Shelf, 
but these tunnels are known only to two-legged allies and 
servants of the birds.
Opening the Eyrie as a Sanctuary
During an Adventuring phase, the Company may gain 
permission to spend a first Fellowship phase as guests 
of the Eagles. If they wish to return, they will have to 
make it a sanctuary. To do so, all companions must 
choose the Open Sanctuary undertaking (see page 
201 of the Player’s Guide). While normally such an 
undertaking is automatically successful, the Eagles 
are picky about their invited guests… each hero must 
make a DC 10 Intelligence (Traditions) check. If any 
heroes fail, then the Eyrie is not yet a sanctuary for the 
Company. They will have to again receive permission 
to enter the Eyrie during an Adventuring phase.
Spending a Fellowship phase 
at the Eyrie
Companions spending a Fellowship phase as guests of 
the Eagles may find the available activities somewhat 
limited by the peculiarity of the place. But the unusual 
atmosphere of the Eyrie and the Company of the noble 
birds make it a place of contemplation and relaxation: 
companions choosing the Heal Corruption undertaking 
are not required to roll but automatically reduce their 
Shadow score by three points instead.
Elendil’s Camp
The ruins that run alongside the road in part of Cirith 
Forn en Andrath are called Elendil’s Camp in the folklore of 
the Beornings. In fact, these ruins have nothing to do with 
Elendil; they are the remains of a Northman trade town 
called Haycombe that was destroyed centuries ago. Wights 
and other creatures of darkness haunt the ruins. Haycombe 
and its dangers feature in Wilderland Adventures.
The Burned Glade
In the forests off the road, there was once a dark and 
frightful glade where the Wargs gathered to meet with 
their Goblin allies. That glade is no more — Gandalf’s 
magic burnt it to a crisp before the Battle of Five Armies.
Today, the skeletal remains of five fir-trees surround a 
burnt circle of ash. A few fiery-red flowers grow amid the 
devastation. Something of Gandalf’s magic still lingers 
here, and evil things are afraid of the circle. It can provide 
a place of refuge when foes draw near.
The Protection of the Burned Glade
The ashen circle of the glade is a good place to make 
a stand. As long as the heroes remain within the glade 
they have Advantage on all attack rolls, saving throws 
and Charisma (Intimidation) checks until they fail a 
roll. Once a hero fails, their benefit is cancelled for the 
remainder of the combat.
East Middle Vales
Pluck a stay-at-home Hobbit from his comfortable life 
in the Shire and drop him in the East Middle Vales of 
Wilderland, and — once he gets over the shock and has 
a revivifying cup of tea, some seed-cake, and a nice sit 
down — you will certainly hear him comment on how 
familiar this region seems to him. “A little unkempt”, he’ll 
say, “the grass needs cutting, the trees need a good trim, 
and you’ll have to do something about the roads, but it 
somehow reminds me of the Shire.” The East Middle Vales 
are a region of rich, fertile land. Green meadows and low 
rounded hills run from the River to the Forest. Vast fields 
of flowers blossom with a thousand vibrant colours in the 
summer, and there is good hunting in the woods come 
autumn.
Despite appearances, this is still the Wild. The land may 
be bountiful, but it is far from safe. Even under Beorn’s 
protection, the folk who dwell here must be stalwart and 
brave, for Orcs and other monsters often threaten to 
trespass.
The Lands of the River

--- PAGE 40 ---
Rhovanion Region Guide
40
The Vales are bounded by the Great River on the west 
side, Mirkwood on the east side. To the north is the 
Elfwood and the hard land of the Viglundings. The south 
edge of this region is undefined. Beorn’s territory once 
ended at the Old Forest Road, but now his followers have 
settlements many miles south of that. Where the Middle 
Vales end and the East Anduin Vales begin is a matter 
for debate between the Beornings and the Woodmen of 
Mirkwood.
Combat Scenery: ancient dykes, birdsong, foundations, 
incessant buzzing of bees, lone trees, old walls, scattered 
rocks, shallow slopes, thickets, torrential downpours
Wildlife
The droning of bees and the chirping of birds is 
everywhere in the land of the Beornings. Huge bees as big 
as your thumb wander through the grasslands, looking for 
flowers. Foxes, rabbits, squirrels and other wild animals 
can also be found here in great numbers; the Vales are 
a profusion of life. These creatures are not tainted by the 
evils of Mirkwood. The squirrels of the East vales are fiery 
red, not the eerie black of their Mirkwood cousins.
Unsurprisingly, many bears live in the thickets. They can 
often be seen ambling down to the Anduin to drink or to 
catch leaping fish. The Beornings consider the bears to 
be their kinfolk, and woe betide any man who wounds 
one. The Beornings keep cattle, sheep, and ponies; wild 
versions of these may also be encountered as they roam 
free. Beorn himself has a kennel of marvellous dogs, but 
there are few wild dogs in the region, and the wild wolves 
usually stay on the far side of the river.
Inhabitants
These fertile lands have been home to many Men since 
the earliest days. Each extended family has their own 
farmlands and pastures surrounding their fortified 
homestead. Unlike the Woodmen, they are not organised 
into Houses and until recently had no chieftain or any 
higher authority than the head of a household. Now, they 
call themselves Beornings; they follow Beorn and obey his 
E
E
E
E
E
The Cleft of Storms
The Carrock
The House of Beorn
The Grey Heath
Isle of Strangling 
Trees
East Middle 
Vales
E
The Old Ford

--- PAGE 41 ---
41
laws. Not everyone living in this land bows to Beorn, and 
that is fine with him — he will not force anyone to listen 
to him.
While most Beornings live in isolated farmsteads, there 
are a few… well, towns would be an exaggeration. Call 
them villages, or steadings, clustered around trading 
posts or river crossings; one of the largest has sprung up 
in the vicinity of the Old Ford. The Beornings are a simple 
people — no inns, no shops, few traders or merchants or 
any of the trappings of civilised lands. Our hypothetical 
Hobbit would praise the baking and butter-making of the 
Beornings to high heaven, but be desperately upset at the 
lack of china plates or well-made butter-knives. The larger 
farmsteads do have guest-houses for travellers, where a 
wanderer may obtain dinner and a bed for the night.
There are no other speaking folk in this land, save for the 
Dwarves and other travellers who hurry through on their 
way West or South. In the south-east, there are a few 
Dwarves — the old road through Mirkwood was built by 
Durin’s folk, and was once protected by a chain of forts. 
Both road and forts are abandoned now, but some Dwarves 
still dwell in the region called Stonehallow (see page 56).
Notable Characters
Beorn
Others say that he is a man descended from the first men 
who lived before Smaug or the other dragons came into this 
part of the world, and before the goblins came into the hills 
out of the North… At any rate he is under no enchantment 
but his own.
Beorn started to establish his position as a great chief 
after the Battle of Five Armies, when he began uniting 
many men under his rule. Nobody knows why he did so, 
and nobody seems able to divine his plans for the future: 
Beorn seems content today as a leader of a folk as he 
seemed once to enjoy his previous isolation. His followers 
obey his loose rules out of respect for their leader, and a 
council of elder chieftains comes to his house regularly 
to interpret his will and let it be known to the rest of the 
population. Beorn maintains good relations with both 
Gandalf the Grey and Radagast the Brown, and the two 
Wizards have been seen arriving at the house of Beorn 
together on occasion.
Beorn appears as a huge man of indeterminate age with 
a thick black beard and hair. Powerfully built with strong 
arms and muscular legs, he speaks with a growling voice 
when angered and laughs a great rolling laugh when 
amused.
One thing that hasn’t changed since his solitary days is 
that Beorn still doesn’t like Dwarves and ‘beggars’ — his 
contemptuous name for all strangers other than Woodmen 
— and rarely invites foreigners into his house. Requests 
to see Beorn are usually immediately turned down by 
whoever met the applicants, unless they are persuaded 
of the importance of the matter with clear evidence. And 
even if the heroes succeed in getting to meet Beorn, it 
won’t be easy to get anything out of him: the skin-changer 
rarely concerns himself with the dealings of other folks, so 
he won’t be interested in things that do not directly involve 
either his lands or his followers.
If the Loremaster requires Beorn to appear to help a 
company of heroes involved in a difficult fight he may 
use the stats provided below. A powerful and dangerous 
deus-ex-machina device, Beorn should be employed only 
if the players have done something to actually prompt his 
intervention. Beorn’s entry represents him as a giant bear, 
his preferred method of dealing with all interlopers.
Motivation: Leave me and my people in peace. 
Expectations: +1 if the heroes honour the ways of the 
Vales; +2 if the heroes have won a great battle against 
a threat to the Beornings; -2 if they lie to him, or are 
obsequious, or drone on without purpose.
The Lands of the River

--- PAGE 42 ---
Rhovanion Region Guide
42
The origins of Beorn are mysterious at best. The few 
things we know about his past seem to suggest that the 
shapeshifter once used to live somewhere in the mountains 
or that he descended from a folk that used to live there, and 
that someone or something forced him to leave, or forbids 
him from returning. Moreover, when Bilbo first meets him 
he seems to be living under some sort of obligation forcing 
upon him his solitary life, maybe even his peculiar diet of 
cream and honey. Whether this obligation is a curse, an 
enchantment or even a self-imposed stricture tied to a vow 
or oath, the details remain unclear. What is certain is that 
the day that Beorn took part in the Battle of Five Armies 
his ‘enchantment’ seems to have been somewhat altered: 
Beorn interrupted his secluded life, apparently retaining 
his shape-shifting powers. While Beorn and his secrets 
should remain at least partly hidden in the obscurity that 
Tolkien wrapped around them, the following is worth 
consideration:
 
• 
The fact that Beorn doesn’t eat animals, either domestic 
or wild, seems to point to a sort of geas, laid upon him 
at birth or that he imposed on himself at a later date. 
As often happens in myth, this stricture might even be 
the key to his shape-shifting ability. Today, Beorn is 
teaching some of his secrets to his followers, and if his 
powers require a geas, then the process might involve 
the imposition of rules similar to the ones he himself 
follows: Beornings may have to abstain from eating 
animal meat for at least one week every month to 
enjoy the benefits of their Virtues, or the requirement 
imposed by Beorn, that all Beornings should attend the 
festivities held at Yule-tide at his house, might involve 
the renewal of vows.
• 
The old solitary life of Beorn may have had something 
to do with Bolg, the Orc overlord of Mount Gundabad, 
as the Battle of Five Armies seems to be the episode 
that released Beorn from this obligation. This detail 
hints at a sort of old feud between Bolg or his father 
Azog, and Beorn himself or some of his ancestors who 
lived in the mountains. If the story of Beorn was one 
of revenge, then was the extinction of Azog’s bloodline 
a sufficient compensation for the wrong he presumably 
suffered? Is the feud really finished, or will a new Lord 
of Gundabad rise and come to look for Beorn or his kin? 
How will Beorn die — as he isn’t active by the time of 
the War of the Ring?
• 
In the years following the creation of his new folk, 
Beorn will establish a progeny fathering at least a son 
— Grimbeorn. As Grimbeorn is called ‘the old’ by the 
beginning of the War of the Ring, he should be born 
at least before the year 2970. It is said that the men 
of his line had the power of taking bear’s shape — does 
this require Beorn to lay his geas upon his son, maybe 
during a ceremony held in a sacred vale in the Misty 
Mountains, where the Great Bears of the mountains 
used to live? Must Beorn lose his own power to pass it 
over to his son? If the companions succeed in becoming 
friends with the old shape-shifter they might be called 
to help him in these private proceedings. 
Whatever answer you determine to be true for your 
campaign, it is best to have Beorn remain somewhat 
mysterious. He should never be seen changing shape — he 
arrives at battles in the shape of a giant bear, and retreats 
in the same form before returning as a man to his home.
Beorn as a Patron
As explained above, Beorn is little concerned with the affairs of adventurers, and may take into consideration the 
possibility of entrusting the Company with a task only if he has a pressing need and he thinks that the heroes are more 
suited to the endeavour than his most trusted men. Gaining Beorn as a patron requires that the heroes spend at least 
one Adventuring phase directly assisting him in some way. A mission from Beorn will most likely be a very dangerous 
business, involving hunting or directly facing some dire threat menacing the lands of the Beornings. For example, the 
companions may find themselves be asked to pursue a band of raiding Orcs and Wargs into the mountains from whence 
they came, or track down a solitary Troll that is terrorising an area; when such an occasion arises, Beorn is likely to 
have the Company rely on its own devices, as if the mission was a test of sorts.
The Enchantment of Beorn

--- PAGE 43 ---
43
Beorn the Skinchanger (in bear shape)
Large Beast (Shapechanger)
STR 
22 (+6)
DEX 
12 (+1)
CON 
19 (+4)
INT 
10 (+0)
WIS 
15 (+2)
CHA 
13 (+1)
Armour Class 16 (natural armour)
Hit Points 114 (12d10+48)
Speed 30 ft
Damage Immunities psychic
Damage Resistances non-magical bludgeoning, 
piercing and slashing; cold, poison, thunder
Skills Intimidation +5, Perception +6
Senses passive Perception 16
Challenge 12 (8,400 XP)
Hatred (All Evil Things) (Recharge 5-6). Beorn hates the 
Shadow and all its servants. He can use his bonus action to 
gain Advantage on attacks against them this round.
Horrible Strength. If Beorn makes a successful melee 
attack, he may use his bonus action to cause 6 additional 
damage of the same type to the target.
Raging. Once Beorn has taken damage in a combat, he 
may use his bonus action to make an additional claw 
attack against a target he has successfully hit.
Actions
Multiattack. Beorn makes one bite attack and two claw 
attacks.
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 13 (2d6+6) slashing damage. Miss: the 
target must make a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw or be 
Frightened until the end of Beorn’s next turn.
Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 17 (2d10+6) slashing damage and the target 
must make a DC 17 Strength or Dexterity saving throw 
to avoid being knocked Prone.
Reactions
Hallowed Servant. When Beorn would be reduced to 0 
hit points by a damage source, he may use his reaction to 
add 21 (6d6) temporary hit points.
Turin the Tinker
Perhaps his parents dreamed their son would do great 
deeds when they gave him the name of a hero of old, but 
Turin the Tinker is nothing like Turin of the Black Sword. 
For one thing, he’s a lot happier. Most heroes are dour 
folk, always talking about curses and dire omens and 
fell beasts. Heroes may accomplish deeds worthy of song 
and story, but they are never content. Much better to be a 
wandering seller of pots and pans and other items in the 
land of the Beornings.
Accompanied by his friend, a Dwarf named Loni, Turin 
travels the paths along the east banks of Anduin in a 
horse and cart. He sells all manner of things; horseshoes, 
utensils, weapons, cloth and leather, medicines from 
Woodmen-town, silver from the mountains, toys from 
Dale, and other curiosities he picked up in trades. He likes 
the peaceful life of a trader, and is careful to avoid areas 
frequented by outlaws or Orcs. 
Turin the Tinker
Medium Human
STR 
10 (+0)
DEX 
12 (+1)
CON 
11 (+0)
INT 
16 (+3)
WIS 
10 (+0)
CHA 
13 (+1)
Armour Class 11
Hit Points 9 (2d8)
Speed 30 ft
Skills History +5, Persuasion +3, Riddle +5, Traditions +5
Senses passive Perception 10
Languages Westron
Challenge 1/4 (50 XP)
Beset by Fate. If the Company journeys with Turin, treat 
any results of ‘1 (or less)’ on the Journey Events Table as 
‘12 (or more)’.
Region-lore (East Middle Vales). If Turin is with the 
Company for a journey that begins or ends in the East 
Middle Vales, the Guide rolls 1d8+4 for the Embarkation 
Roll.
Actions
Staff. Melee Weapon Attack: +2 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 3 (1d6) bludgeoning damage.
However, ever since he was young, Turin the Tinker has 
worried that he is marked by destiny. What if he is meant 
to go on some great quest, or to fight some terrible foe? 
The name of Turin is long associated with doom and 
suffering, and Turin the Tinker worries that chance will 
force adventure on him. Therefore, he is careful to get rid 
of anything that looks like it might be the start of a perilous 
quest. If he stumbles upon a long-forgotten tomb, or finds 
a cryptic old scroll at the bottom of a chest of trade goods, 
or has a portentous dream of evil stirring in the Wild, he 
finds an adventurer as quickly as he can and foists this 
potential destiny off on them.
Motivations and Expectations: Other than his more 
extraordinary efforts to avoid adventure, Turin has many 
The Lands of the River

--- PAGE 44 ---
Rhovanion Region Guide
44
of the qualities of a merchant (page 69 of the Loremaster’s 
Guide ).
Gelvira Pot-Stirrer
The steading of Gelvira Pot-Stirrer is the closest one to the 
Old Ford, and so many travellers spend the night under 
her roof. She has a huge bubbling stew-pot over a fire that 
never goes out; she keeps topping up the pot with more 
meat and vegetables and herbs whenever it runs low. Her 
guest-hall can sleep more than a score of travellers, and 
it is full some nights. Her husband brews beer and mead 
for their guests, and her daughters are acclaimed bakers. 
Many adventures begin with chance-meetings at the Hall 
of the Crossing. Gelvira’s position means she knows every 
regular traveller on the roads of Wilderland. She hears 
every rumour, and meets regularly with Beorn to bring 
him news of potential trouble. He considers her to be one 
of his most valuable advisors, and listens closely to her 
counsel.
Motivations: Safety can be bought with knowledge, and I 
will keep my people safe.
Expectations: +1 if the heroes bring news from afar; +2 
if they warn of a threat to the Beornings; -1 if they are 
uncourteous; -2 if they speak ill of the lord of the Carrock.
Ennalda the Spear-Maiden
Evil men murdered Ennalda’s mother when she was young. 
Her father was a sell-sword, a wandering freebooter — 
sometimes a mercenary, sometimes a treasure-hunter, 
sometimes an outlaw — who taught her to fight at a young 
age. He left her in Beorn’s house as a fosterling and went 
to seek his fortune in Dale, but never returned. She has 
spent the last four years living under Beorn’s roof.
Ennalda has grown into a fierce slayer, whose long spear 
is as swift and lethal as a thunderbolt. She has devoted 
herself to protecting Beorn and his homestead, and is 
always the first to defend her foster-father in battle or in 
debate. Her temper is almost as fearsome as her weapon. 
She is one of Beorn’s spear-thanes, and he sends her as 
his emissary to far-flung homesteads. Ennalda deeply 
mistrusts adventurers. She grew up with mercenaries and 
wanderers, and knows they are dangerous, untrustworthy 
sorts. If any adventurers visit Beorn’s stead, then she keeps 
a close eye on them in case they make mischief.
Motivation: Beorn is my lord, I will hear no ill rumour 
said about him.
Expectations: +1 if the heroes have protected Beornings 
recently; -2 if they speak to her of glory or riches.
Ennalda the Spear-Maiden
Medium Human
STR 
15 (+2)
DEX 
10 (+0)
CON 
16 (+3)
INT 
16 (+3)
WIS 
12 (+1)
CHA 
10 (+0)
Armour Class 14 (Leather Corslet, Shield)
Hit Points 37 (5d8+15)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Perception +3, Shadow-lore +5
Senses passive Perception 13
Languages Westron
Challenge 1 (200 XP)
Warrior’s Charge. Ennalda gains Advantage on her 
attack for the first round of combat.
Actions
Spear. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 
5 ft or range 20/60 ft, one target. Hit: 5 (1d6+2) piercing 
damage or 6 (1d8+2) piercing damage if used with two 
hands to make a melee attack.
Reactions
Parry. Enalda adds +2 to her AC against one melee attack 
that would hit her. To do so, she must see the attacker and 
be wielding a melee weapon.
Notable Places
The Carrock
The Carrock is a huge rock that sits in the middle of the 
Anduin, a short distance west of Beorn’s House. The river 
flows around it on both sides, but a series of huge stepping 
stones leads to the muddy eastern shore. A small shallow 
cave bores into one side of the rock, next to a worn set of 
steps leading up to the flat surface above.
The Carrock is a sacred place to the Beornings. Ceremonies 
and meetings are held there; trials, marriages, funerals, 
councils of war and celebrations of good fortune. The rock

--- PAGE 45 ---
45
New Fellowship Phase Undertaking: Return to the Carrock
The Carrock is an important place to the Beornings, and making a pilgrimage to it renews their strength and bravery for 
the coming year. The hero may Heal Corruption (see page 200 of the Player’s Guide) by using any Wisdom skill for the 
check. The Beorning has Advantage on the check. This task can only be chosen by a Beorning if he has chosen to spend his 
Fellowship phase at home, or if the Company has elected to stay at Beorn’s house.
Opening the Old Ford as a Sanctuary
At least a dozen Beorning farmsteads cluster around the Old Ford, including Gelvira’s Hall of the Crossing (see opposite 
page), mainly to the north of the Road. This community is used to the passing of wanderers and traders, and thus welcomes 
adventurers with more warmth than the average Beorning settlement. Companions wishing to stay at the Old Ford regularly 
may choose to make the location a sanctuary. To do so, all companions must spend a first Fellowship phase there and choose 
the Open Sanctuary undertaking (see page 201 of the Player’s Guide).
The Old Ford is the crossroads of Wilderland. A great 
many travellers pass through here every year, even in 
these dangerous and fearful times. Companions spending 
a Fellowship phase at the ford may help the Beornings in 
keeping the passage of the River safe, and maybe pick up 
gossip and news, make new friends, or possibly even get a 
few coins from crossing tolls. 
You may elect to make a DC 15 Wisdom (Insight) check 
before rolling on the following table. If you are successful, 
roll with Advantage. If you fail, roll with Disadvantage. If 
you choose not to make the check, just roll 1d20 and consult 
the table below:
1 	
Bad News: The Ford is attacked by outlaws, 	
	
wargs, or some other foe. You help in repelling 	
	
the threat, but sustain lingering injuries. 	
	
	
You begin the next Adventuring phase with 1 	
	
level of Exhaustion. 
2-5 	
Nothing Useful: Long days of little activity 	
	
are your only reward this time. 
6-10 	
Good Traffic: You receive compensation equal 	
	
to your Proficiency Bonus in gold pieces.
11-13 	 Busy Days: You earn gold pieces equal to twice 	
	
your Proficiency Bonus.
14-15	 Fruitful Activity: As 11-13 above, but you also 	
	
gain Inspiration after meeting so many 	
	
	
merchants and other travellers.
16-17	 Rumours of the Road: As 11-13 above, but 		
	
you have learnt something new about 	
	
	
the Wilderland. In the next Adventuring phase, 	
	
you may make one check due to a Journey Event 	
	
with Advantage.
18-19	 News from Afar: As 11-13 above, and you 		
	
have heard all sorts of news and gossip. In the 	
	
next Adventuring phase, you may make an 	 	
	
Introduction check for an audience with 	
	
	
Advantage.
20	
A Chance Meeting: You encounter a potential 	
	
patron (someone like Gandalf, Radagast or 	
	
another 	wanderer). You may elect to engage 	
	
them in an Audience. If you’re successful, then 	
	
you may later undertake to gain them as a 	 	
	
Patron.
New Fellowship Phase Undertaking: Guard the Old Ford
The Lands of the River

--- PAGE 46 ---
Rhovanion Region Guide
46
is big enough to hold a few dozen people, which is enough 
for every Beorning settlement to send a representative but 
small enough so that everyone can be heard.
It is also a place of power. The roots of the Misty Mountains 
break through the mantle of the soil here. To stand atop 
the Carrock is to draw on the old power of the world, the 
wild nameless wilderness that existed before the Elves 
awoke in days of old.
The Old Ford
The Great River is changeable. When rainstorms or 
snowmelt feeds its tributaries like the Rushdown, the river 
can quicken and become impassable save by boat or via 
the stones of the Old Ford. The dwarf-road crossed the 
river here, over a stone bridge of their making. In later 
years, the men of the North Kingdom made it greater to 
hasten the passage of their armies. The bridge is gone 
now, leaving only a few stones worn smooth by the water, 
among which rest the fragments of a broken statue of a 
forgotten king.
Until recently, the Ford was a haunt of bandits and thieves, 
who would demand payment from some travellers and 
rob others. Now, the Beornings guard the ford (and the 
tolls are high, but at least no-one is robbed). There is even 
talk of building a new bridge over the Anduin, but such a 
project is beyond the skills of the Men of Wilderland. 
Isle of Strangling Trees
The Isle of Strangling Trees is not much more than a green 
eyot emerging from the Great River thirty miles north of the 
Carrock. It is a perilous place, overrun with willows and 
Gallows-weed. Branches hang over the river, trailing long 
strands of weed upon the waters. Boats that stray too close 
to the isle run the risk of getting caught and their crews 
strangled. The River-folk say they have glimpsed ruins on 
the island, suggesting that someone deliberately planted 
the Gallows-weed upon the isle to keep the curious away.
Learn more about Gallows-weed on page 124.
Beorn’s House
The home of Beorn has changed little since Thorin’s 
company visited him. Many of his folk have settled 
nearby, but none within the belt of oak-trees and thorn-
hedges that surround his stead. A gate in the hedge leads 
into the farmstead itself. Wondrous animals attend Beorn 
The House 
of Beorn
1. Thorn-Hedge
2. Main Gate
3. Bee Pastures
4. Vegetable Gardens
5. Herb Gardens
6. Barn
7. Outbuildings
8. Stables 
9. Kennels
10. Courtyard
11. Beorn’s hall
12. Beorn’s Chambers
13. Guest-house
14. Veranda
15. Cellar

--- PAGE 47 ---
47
at his home. His servants are strangely intelligent horses, 
and sheep and cows who can understand the speech of 
men. Dogs, too, prowl around the outbuildings, and bears 
live in the woods nearby.
The Grey Heath
Long ago, when Beorn was a young man, he followed 
a band of warriors in battle against forces loyal to the 
Necromancer. They fought a terrible battle on this heath, 
and were victorious though at great cost. After the battle, 
the bodies of the Orcs and the other crawling dead things 
were piled and burnt. Nothing has grown on that spot 
since, and the Beornings speak of eerie lights and strange 
sounds at night. As the power of Dol Guldur grows, the 
Necromancer’s servants awaken once again.
The Cleft of Storms
The Cleft of Storms is a rocky height, a twin-horned hill 
that the locals call the Giant’s Axe-cut. It stands close 
to the border of Mirkwood, forty miles north of Beorn’s 
House. Ancient stones piled on the top of both hilltops 
seem to suggest that the hills once rose as one, and that a 
fort stood up there.
If you stand here, between the rocky walls, you can feel 
the four winds blowing. You can smell the storm-clouds 
gathering above the Misty Mountains, and hear the 
thunder rolling across the bay in far-off Umbar. You can 
feel the lightning like a thousand bee-stings across your 
skull. 
Those who know the secret of the cleft can use it to predict 
the weather; summer tempests or winter snowstorms can 
be spotted two or three days in advance. It is said that 
New Fellowship Phase Undertaking: Befriend the Beasts
Sometimes, trusted friends of Beorn are allowed to bring one of these magical animals with them on some important 
quest. A character that spends a Fellowship phase at Beorn’s house may learn the ways of the wondrous animals and 
gain one of the following benefits: 
• 
Befriend a Pony: One of Beorn’s ponies agrees to accompany the character on his travels in the next Adventuring 
phase. This wondrous pony gives the hero Advantage on Perception and Survival checks, and will follow the 
adventurer even into dark places underground.
• 
Befriend a Hound: For the next Adventuring phase, when the companion is making a Investigation or Survival 
check, she has Advantage.
• 
The Speech of Beasts: The character learns to speak the secret tongue of one sort of animal — choose from Horses, 
Dogs, Bears, Wolves, Birds or Burrowing Beasts. Interpreting the speech of beasts requires a DC 15 Intelligence 
(Riddle) or Wisdom (Insight) check.
The Lands of the River

--- PAGE 48 ---
Rhovanion Region Guide
48
those of great will can seize control of the cleft and direct 
the weather as they wish, imposing their desires onto the 
wild whims of the sky. Loremasters who implement OGL 
spells may consider this a ritual invocation of control 
weather.
West Anduin Vales
The West Anduin Vales are wild indeed. South of the Road, 
the land becomes much more difficult. The western part 
of the district is dominated by rolling hills; the east is a 
wilderness of rush-cloaked marshes and thickets. 
The Woodmen of Mountain Hall are cousins and oath-
brothers to the Woodmen of Mirkwood, and live in a long 
steep-sided valley near the head of the river Icewater. Their 
Mountain Hall — Firienseld  in the language of the Vales of 
Anduin — is an easily defended burg in the shadow of the 
mountains, built atop their mines. It needs every wall and 
trench, as the Goblins often threaten the Hall. 
To the south-east of the Hall, the land becomes more 
treacherous as you approach the River Gladden, so most 
travellers go north-east across the stony hills before 
turning east for the Great River or north for the Road, 
avoiding the middle-marshes.
The middle-marshes are not so tangled or confusing as 
the golden maze of the Gladden Fields, but can be hard 
going for a traveller. The River-folk live and fish in these 
marshes; they build small huts on stilts above the waters. 
The forest in the south of this region lies on a highland 
overlooking the Gladden Fields. Called the Wolfswood by 
the folk of the Vales, it is home to wolves and outlaws in 
great number.
 
Combat Scenery: bogs, cliffs, crags, freezing pools, huge 
boulders, paths, rock edges, rubble, small streams, strong 
winds, thickets, unstable walls
Wildlife
The marshes of the east swarm with fish and birds, 
including the infamous corpse-eating Grim Hawks (see 
page 125). The Woodmen of Woodland Hall keep herds 
of goats and sheep in their sheltered valleys, and breed 
sturdy mountain ponies. Wolves often slip down from the 
north to prey on the herds of the mountain-folk.
Inhabitants
For the most part, this land is empty and wild. A traveller 
who strays off the road is unlikely to meet another living 
soul within several days’ journey. The only permanent 
settlement is the fortified burg of Mountain Hall in the 
west. The Woodmen and the River-folk may settle in a 
spot for a few years, but the threat of Orc attack from 
the warrens of the Misty Mountains forces them to stay 
nomadic. 
The Woodmen living in the area are a curious, 
unforthcoming folk. They are counted as one of the Houses 
of the Woodmen, but they differ from their forest kinsmen 
in many ways. They learned from the Dwarves in days 
of yore, and picked up something of their stubbornness 
and secrecy. They are not at home in the dark places of 
the wood as their kin, but are more willing to travel long 
distances under the sky. Players who wish to hail from 
Firienseld should see the Woodmen of Mountain Hall 
section on the next page.
E
E
E
E
Hag’s Island
Trader’s 
 Island
Mountain Hall
The Wolfswood
West Anduin 
Vales

--- PAGE 49 ---
49
New Fellowship Phase Undertaking: 
Hunting Grim Hawks
The Éafolc often hunt Grim Hawks. The flesh of the 
carrion eaters is diseased and foul, but if their numbers 
grow too large, they become dangerous to all denizens 
of the Vales of Anduin, especially the River-folk.
Companions spending their Fellowship phase at 
Mountain Hall or nearby may contribute to the 
well-being of the Great River Vales by choosing 
this undertaking to go hunting with the River-folk. 
Make five attack rolls (using a weapon of your choice) 
against AC 13. If you achieve more successes than 
failures, you have aided in the hunt and are recognised 
as an Éafolc-friend. Heroes with this title do not have 
a holding, but can ask favours of any member of the 
Éafolc, for example to be granted passage on a boat 
across the river or along it.
 
But the benevolence of the River-folk is a fleeting 
thing: if a year passes, or the title’s benefits are used 
often in the same Adventuring phase (more than twice), 
the gratitude of the Éafolc must be earned again, for 
example by returning to hunt the Grim Hawks.
Woodmen of Mountain Hall
Description, Names and Starting Attitudes
The folk of Firienseld are close kin with those who live 
under the eaves of Mirkwood and share both their 
physical appearance and naming conventions. Similarly, 
they are treated the same as other Woodmen, and regard 
other cultures in much the same way, except that they are 
Friendly to Dwarves.
Standard of Living
Woodmen of Mountain Hall are scarcely more rich than 
their cousins, however there is more ready coin in their 
communities and they are ranked as Martial. 
Bonus Equipment: A grey travelling cloak, travelling 
gear for the current season, a backpack, a belt dagger, 
boots, 3d6 silver pennies, plus choose any one: a fine 
woollen blanket, a basket of berries, a hunting trap or a 
hand-carved gaming set.
Woodmen of Mountain Hall Traits
Your hero derives the following traits from their ancestry:
Ability Score Increase — Your Strength score increases 
by 1, and you may increase two additional ability scores 
by 1.
Adventuring Age — 16-30. Those of Firienseld don’t 
usually venture far from the Burg until their 16th year 
and rarely continue past their fortieth year, when the 
desire to return to the mountains of their youth becomes 
strong.
Size — Most Woodmen are between 5 and 6 feet tall. Your 
size is Medium.
Speed — Your base walking speed is 30 feet.
Mountainfolk — You have proficiency in the Survival 
skill.
Virtue — You gain one Woodmen of Mountain Hall 
Cultural Virtue (see below) of your choice.
Languages — You speak the Vale of Anduin tongue, an 
archaic version of Westron, closely related to Dalish.
Cultural Virtues
The folk of Firienseld share some abilities with their 
eastern kindred, and may select from A Hunter’s 
Resolve, Herbal Remedies (they harvest such plants from 
secret mountain glens), Natural Watchfulness, and the 
Staunching Song of the Woodmen. But they have also 
learnt new lessons in the hard mountains: add Goblin-
Hunter (see next page) as an eligible Virtue (the Hounds 
of Mirkwood are not suited for the steep terrain).
Cultural Heirlooms
Woodmen of Mountain Hall use bearded axes and 
shepherds-bows as well. But Radagast’s gifts are rarely 
seen on this side of the river. Instead they carve horns of 
the mountain sheep, and the call of a Ramhorn can often 
be heard echoing off the mountain slopes.
The Lands of the River

--- PAGE 50 ---
Rhovanion Region Guide
50
Woodmen of Mountain Hall Cultural 
Virtue: Goblin-hunter
For many long years, your folk have warred with 
the Goblins of the Misty Mountains. In this strife, 
you have learned much about your enemy. When 
searching for signs of Orc-kind, you have Advantage 
on Investigation, Perception and Shadow-lore checks. 
When you do battle with them, you have Advantage on 
your attack rolls until you are wounded.
Woodmen of Mountain Hall Cultural 
Heirloom: Ramhorn
Carved from an especially large horn of a mountain 
sheep, this horn can be used to communicate long 
distances and raises the spirits of those who hear 
its call. You may blow the Ramhorn by spending 
your Inspiration and making a DC 15 Charisma 
(Performance) check. If you are successful, then each 
other member of the Company that hears your horn 
gains Inspiration. You must take a long rest before 
using the ramhorn in this manner again.
Notable Characters
Beranald, Doorwarden of Mountain Hall
Old Beranald has been in charge of meeting all who 
approach Mountain Hall by way of its narrow bridge since 
when Hartmut, father of Hartfast, was only a boy. Anyone 
who has ever tried to enter the village bearing arms has been 
challenged by the words of Beranald, an ancient formula 
that was taught to him by the previous Doorwarden.
“Stay where you are, strangers. Your journey has led you 
here to seek our hall. I see you are warriors. I must ask 
who you are, in the name of Hartfast, head of the House 
of Mountain Hall.”
Beranald requires all those who want to enter Firienseld 
to leave their weapons in his custody. In case of trouble, a 
company of archers is quickly summoned, ready to deal 
with any threat.
Motivation: I am the first line of defense for Mountain 
Hall. I will be as unyielding as stone.
Expectations: +1 if the heroes select a Beorning, Woodman, 
or Éafolc-friend (see page 49) as their spokesperson; -2 if the 
heroes refuse to surrender their weapons

--- PAGE 51 ---
51
Beranald, Doorwarden of 
Mountain Hall
Medium Human
STR 
12 (+1)
DEX 
10 (+0)
CON 
15 (+2)
INT 
13 (+1)
WIS 
15 (+2)
CHA 
14 (+2)
Armour Class 15 (Corslet of Mail, Shield)
Hit Points 26 (4d8+8)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Perception +4, Persuasion +4, Traditions +3 
Senses passive Perception 14
Languages Westron
Challenge 1 (200 XP)
Call for Aid. Beranald may use his action to blow his 
horn and summon aid. 1d4 Warriors (page 71 of the 
Loremaster’s Guide) arrive in 1d6+1 rounds.
Raise the Alarm. Beranald begins combat with 5 
temporary hit points. These hit points are lost as soon as 
he attacks or calls for aid.
Actions
Broadsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 5 (1d8+1) slashing damage.
Hartfast, son of Hartmut
The chieftain of Mountain Hall has been introduced in 
Wilderland Adventures. He is a proud warrior of more 
than fifty years, very tall even by Northmen standards, 
yet still able to wield an axe with purpose. He is a very 
practical man, almost as obstinate as a Dwarf, with no 
time to waste on foolish things like ‘adventures’.
Motivation: To protect my people and my position
Expectations: +2 if the heroes show respect or address 
Hartfast as a Woodman; +1 if the heroes bring gifts or 
mention Radagast; -1 if Hartfast suspects the player 
characters will stir up evil with their actions
Hartfast, son of Hartmut
Medium Human
STR 
18 (+4)
DEX 
10 (+0)
CON 
16 (+3)
INT 
11 (+0)
WIS 
15 (+2)
CHA 
10 (+0)
Armour Class 16 (Heavy Mail)
Hit Points 75 (10d8+30)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Insight +5, Intimidation +3, Perception +5
Senses passive Perception 15
Languages Westron
Challenge 5 (1,800 XP)
Aggressive. As a bonus action, Hartfast can move up to 
his speed toward a foe that he can see.
Hard Eyed. Hartfast has won many battles in defence 
of his hall. He scores critical hits on a 18, 19 or 20 on an 
attack roll.
Warrior’s Charge. Hartfast gains Advantage on all 
attacks made in the first round of combat.
Actions
Multiattack. Hartfast makes two attacks with his great axe.
Great Axe. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 10 (1d12+4) slashing damage.
Reactions
Commanding Voice. Hartfast can inspire his allies with 
his imposing presence and authoritative voice. He can 
use his reaction to utter a command or shout a warning 
whenever a non-hostile creature, that he can see within 
30 feet, is about to make an attack roll or a saving throw. 
The target can add a d6 Command Die to its next roll, 
provided it can hear and understand the message. A 
creature can benefit from only one Command Die at a 
time, and creatures that possess Commanding Voice 
cannot benefit from this effect.
Parry. Hartfast adds +3 to his AC against one melee 
attack that would hit him. To do so, he must see the 
attacker and be wielding a melee weapon.
Notable Places
The Wolfswood
The Wolfswood is a forest of oak, ash and rowan, running 
to willow along the banks of the rivers. It is thick and 
tangled, but is still much more airy and welcoming than 
Mirkwood. The only horrors beneath these trees are the 
evils men bring with them. Four crumbling stone forts 
mark the edges of the Wolfswood on the north and west. 
These forts were built long ago as a defence against 
the Orcs, who once used the woods to shelter from the 
The Lands of the River

--- PAGE 52 ---
Rhovanion Region Guide
52
sunlight. The forts were abandoned many years ago, and 
are now covered in ivy and cracked by questing tree-roots. 
Only ghosts watch the Wolfswood now. The Wolfswood 
has always been associated with outlaws and exiles, and 
many tales tell of brigands living in these forests. Heroes, 
too, have found shelter here — the Woodmen speak of a 
mythical heroine named Ivina of the Green, who fought 
the servants of the Enemy more than three thousand years 
ago when the Shadow ruled all Middle-earth from Mordor 
to the Sea. She hid in the wood, and sallied forth to raid 
the forces of the Enemy. Other old stories tell that an Elf-
prince once went hunting in the Wolfswood with nine 
companions, all riding fair white horses and bedecked in 
armour of silver and gold, but they never returned. The 
River-folk swear that on still nights, you can hear their 
hunting horns blowing desperately in the distance.
Mountain Hall
Firienseld has been described in detail in Wilderland 
Adventures, starting from page 82. This is the best location 
in the West Anduin Vales for a company to choose as a 
sanctuary.
Trader’s Island
Trader’s Island is a refuge of the River-folk. It is one of 
the larger islands in the Anduin; the river splits around 
The markets of the River-folk are a supply of curiosities 
from the length of the Anduin. Companions spending a 
Fellowship phase in Mountain Hall can go visit the Éafolc’s 
market. You may elect to make a DC 15 Intelligence 
(Investigation) check before rolling on the following table. 
If you are successful, roll with Advantage. If you fail, roll 
with Disadvantage. If you are an Éafolc-friend, you may 
automatically get Advantage without needing to make a 
check. If you choose not to make the check, just roll 1d20 
and consult the table below:
1	
Tricked by the River-folk! You’ve bought 
something with your coin, but either spent too 
much or gotten too little. Select an item from the 
Artisan’s Tools table on page 152 of the Player’s 
Guide. You may either buy an item for twice its 
listed cost, or purchase it for the regular price but 
it proves useless after the first time you need it. 
2-5	
Nothing Useful. You spent gold pieces equal 
to your Proficiency Bonus but whatever you 
purchased had any lasting value. If you don’t have 
sufficient money, you instead owe the River-
folk a favour, the requirements of which the 
Loremaster will determine.
6-10	
Food and Drink. You spend silver pennies equal 
to twice your Proficiency Bonus drinking and 
playing games on the island. The next time you 
visit, you are counted as an Éafolc-friend.
11-13	
Good Bargain. You have found excellent deals upon 
Trader’s Island. Select five or less items from page 
153 of the Player’s Guide. You may purchase up to 
two of each item and pay half the listed cost.
14-15	 Southern Wine. You can spend silver pennies equal 
to your Proficiency Bonus on a promising bottle 
of wine. Up to three bottles are available. During 
an Audience, you can open a bottle to improve 
the attitude of your host by one step (two steps if 
they’re from the South, or enamoured by alcohol).
16-17	 River-charm. You have bought a lucky charm 
of the Éafolc, spending gold pieces equal to your 
Proficiency Bonus. During the next Adventuring 
phase, whenever you roll a natural 1 outside of 
combat you may spend a Hit Die in order to reroll.
18-19	 Mab’s Liquor. You have bought a leathern 
flask containing 2d3+1 sips of an amber liquid, 
spending gold pieces equal to your Proficiency 
Bonus. Those who drink it find that it raises the 
spirits of travellers. With the first sip, a hero 
loses a level of Exhaustion and regains 1 Hit Die. 
However, that hero will gain no more benefit from 
the cordial until they have taken a long rest.
20	
Many Choices. You may either select any item 
listed above other than Mab’s Liquor, or choose to 
roll again.
New Fellowship Phase Undertaking: Visit the Market at Trader’s Island

--- PAGE 53 ---
53
a rocky outcropping like the Carrock, and a long sandy 
spit has formed downstream of the rock. Stunted trees and 
long grasses bind the island together, but the ground is not 
always safe, and unwary travellers may blunder into soft 
sand or mud with little warning. There are usually several 
Éafolc families camped on the isle, for they use it as a 
meeting-place and trading post. Persistent rumours claim 
that there is a huge cache of buried treasure somewhere 
on the island, a hoard accumulated by many generations 
of a thieving River-folk family.
Hag’s Island
Hag’s Island lies just north of the meeting of the Gladden 
and the Anduin rivers. It is a small tree-covered lump of 
earth in the middle of the rushing waters, with dangerous 
rapids on the east side. The island is said to be the home 
of an evil monster, the River Hag, and certainly many 
visitors to the isle have vanished mysteriously. At times, 
especially in summer, impenetrable river-mists surround 
the island, and boats that try to make for the safer western 
passage find themselves shipwrecked on the rapids of the 
east channel.
East Anduin Vales
A visitor to this part of the Vales of Anduin would be 
forgiven for thinking that this land is empty. The land rolls 
on for hundreds of miles beside the river, endless green 
valleys running down to the Great River. To the east is the 
ever-present shadow of the forest like a black stain on the 
horizon.
While few people live here, the land remembers them. 
There were kingdoms here, long ago, and armies watered 
the soil with their blood. The visitor must clamber over 
ruined stone walls, or perhaps make camp amid the 
barely-visible foundations of some old village. The 
tumbledown remains of ringforts crown every large hill 
from the Old Ford to the Undeeps and Elven paths run 
along the border of Mirkwood for many miles. 
The Woodmen of Mirkwood live in this region — or at least 
their herds do. Their villages lie deep in the forest, but they 
keep herds of cattle and sheep in the open dales. Young 
men and women tend to the herds with the help of dogs, 
and run back to the shelter of the forest when threatened.
Combat Scenery: foundations, muddy banks, old walls, 
ravines, scattered rocks, small streams, sun breaking 
through the clouds
Wildlife
Some of the denizens of Mirkwood, like the black boars 
and stags, emerge from the darkness of the forest and cross 
the vales here, but they are a rare sight. More commonly 
encountered are the usual wildlife of the Anduin valley, 
like foxes, badgers, otters, wild ponies and sheep. Hunting 
Eagles from the Eyrie often cross the river in search of prey.
The Woodmen of Mirkwood let their animals graze in the 
valleys of this region. They maintain pens and herder’s 
cabins close to the edge of the forest.
Inhabitants
Long ago, Northmen lived in this region. They dwelt in 
the open, and hewed wood from the forest to build their 
homes. Then Orcs and evil Men out of Dol Guldur attacked 
from the south, and many wars were fought by the forest 
E
E
E
E
Stonehallow
The Long Barrows
The Village 
of Stonyford
East Anduin 
Vales
E
E
Pale Rider Caves
Field of Heroes
The Elftower
The Lands of the River

--- PAGE 54 ---
Rhovanion Region Guide
54
eaves. During the Watchful Peace, the Shadow withdrew 
from Dol Guldur, but the Necromancer’s mortal servants 
were still at large.
The Northmen chose to move into the forest, which back 
then was not so terrible and tainted as it is today, and 
became Woodmen. They still consider these lands theirs, 
and when the Shadow is finally defeated, they may leave 
the shelter of the forest and settle here again. While they 
do not live in the open, the Woodmen are busy in this 
land. They make boats and rafts down by the river, so they 
can cross to Mountain Hall or trade with the Riverfolk. 
The Woodmen do not love the Great River, preferring the 
sheltered waters of the Dusky River that runs by their 
home, but they respect its power. There are hidden caches 
all along the river-banks here, with small boats concealed 
beneath bracken or flowering reeds. 
The Woodmen also grow vegetables and other crops in 
small gardens near the forest eaves. They do not rely 
on these fields, though — long and bitter experience 
has taught them that fields of waving grain burn all too 
quickly when invaders come. 
Two other groups live in this region. The first are the people 
called the Erringmen — their name means the Wandering 
People in the Vales of Anduin togue. They are a sparse 
folk, descended from a fierce people that once served Dol 
Guldur. The Balchoth — an Elvish name signifying ‘Cruel 
People’ — came from the east riding in chariots and wains 
and bringing great damage upon Gondor, until they were 
defeated at the Battle of the Fields of Celebrant. Most of 
the Balchoth were slain, but a few survivors fled across 
the Anduin. The majority of the survivors returned to 
the east, but the ancestors of the Erringmen went north 
instead, following the River. In time, they mingled with 
the Northmen, and abandoned many of the ways of their 
cruel kin.
The Erringmen travel in wagons drawn by oxen. They 
move slowly, meandering like the river, bringing with 
them large herds of cattle. They are doughty warriors, 
preferring axes and bows to swords. Their champions 
and leaders fight from chariots, which they decorate with 
gold and intricate carvings to show prestige and wealth. 
The Woodmen mistrust the Erringmen, but permit them 
to pass through their lands. While some of the Erringmen 
have fallen back on old ways and once again serve the 
Enemy, most are free of the Shadow.
The other group living in this land are newcomers. When 
Dol Guldur fell before the White Council just a few years 
ago, many slaves escaped its pits and dungeons and

--- PAGE 55 ---
55
fled north. The forest was a place of horrors for them, 
so they settled in the East Anduin Vales a day’s ride west 
of Woodmen-town. Most of the freed slaves are human, 
though there are Dwarves and even Elves among them. 
Many of them have no homes to return to, for their kin all 
perished in the black pits of the Necromancer.
Notable Characters
Ash
The Elf-woman named Ash is the leader of the free slaves. 
She is not an Elf of Mirkwood, and does not speak of her 
past. She endured centuries of torment in the pits of Dol 
Guldur — she was captured by the Enemy uncounted 
years ago, long before the Watchful Peace, to wring a 
precious secret out of her. Now, it is in the power of the 
Elves to perish when faced with terrible torment, for 
they shall be reborn in the Undying Lands. Ash chose to 
remain — out of love for the wild lands, or out of pride, 
none can say. The Wood-elves suspect that her sufferings 
drove her mad. Great power is in her, but also great 
anger and sorrow.
Ash
Elf
STR 
12 (+1)
DEX 
18 (+4)
CON 
15 (+2)
INT 
12 (+1)
WIS 
15 (+2)
CHA 
17 (+3)
Armour Class 18 (Leather Corslet, Shield)
Hit Points 45 (7d8+14)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Perception +4, Performance +5, Shadow-lore +3 
Senses passive Perception 14
Languages Quenya, Sindarin, Westron
Challenge 3 (700 XP)
Hard Eyed. Ash has won many battles and is an 
accomplished warrior. She scores critical hits on a 18, 19 
or 20 on an attack roll.
Song of Lament. Ash may use her action to sing an 
otherworldly dirge. Though few can understand the 
words, the music calls to mind terrible tragedies and 
great suffering. Anyone who hears the song must make 
a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw or gain 1 point of 
Shadow.
Actions
Broadsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 8 (1d8+4) slashing damage
Motivation: My secrets are my own. No one can bear 
them for me.
Expectations: +1 if there is an Elf or Elf-friend among 
the Company; -2 if the heroes mention Dol Guldur or the 
Necromancer.
Valderic
Valderic is a wagon-captain of the Erringmen. His 
Easterling heritage is strong — he is shorter than the 
average Northman, sallow of skin, and heavily built. The 
Woodmen mock him, calling him halfling, half-man. They 
are careful not to say this to his face, for Valderic is quick 
to laugh, but quicker to anger. He has long felt attracted by 
the Shadow, and since the fall of Dol Guldur he has twice 
dared to enter the fortress to look for relics and treasures. 
Some whisper that Valderic has been able to learn sorcery, 
and that he can now command the spirits of the dead. 
Certainly, his chariot is decorated with the skulls of his 
fallen foes, and strange lights can be seen at night glowing 
within his wagon.
Valderic 
Medium Human (Evil Men)
STR 
19 (+4)
DEX 
10 (+0)
CON 
16 (+3)
INT 
12 (+1)
WIS 
15 (+2)
CHA 
10 (+0)
Armour Class 16 (Scale Hauberk, Shield)
Hit Points 60 (8d8+24)
Speed 30 ft
Saving Throws Wisdom +5
Skills Animal Handling +5, Shadow-lore +4 
Senses passive Perception 12
Languages Westron
Challenge 5 (1,800 XP)
Screamer. In battle Valderic taunts and curses his 
enemies in a dark and unknown language full of malice, 
and all heroes who can hear him have Disadvantage on 
their attack rolls.
Actions
Multiattack. Valderic makes two attacks with his axe.
Axe. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 8 (1d8+4) slashing damage or 9 (1d10+4) 
slashing damage if wielded with two hands.
Reactions
Snake-like Speed (Recharge 5-6). Valderic seems 
preternaturally aware of opponents and can use his reaction 
to halve the damage on a melee attack if he is the target.
The Lands of the River

--- PAGE 56 ---
Rhovanion Region Guide
56
Motivation: I was meant for great things, do not defy me.
Expectations: +1 if the heroes speak of hidden secrets; -2 
if they challenge Valderic’s authority
Iwmud the Goatherd
Old Iwmud has tended the Woodman herds of the Vales 
for many years. The Northmen of Mirkwood see anyone 
who lives in the open as eccentric, and Iwmud is certainly 
that. He talks to the trees and the goats, and sings in his 
own strange language to himself as he watches the herds. 
He also has a number of curious friends, foreigners from 
distant lands who stay at his shack for a few nights before 
carrying on north or south. 
It is even said that Eagles can often be seen circling over 
Iwmud’s home, although who can say if they are watching 
him or guarding him? Iwmud is certainly more than he 
seems; he could be a secret agent of Gandalf — or a spy for 
the Enemy.
Motivation: I only show my true self to those I trust, 
everyone else sees a fool.
Expectations: +2 if the heroes were instructed to seek 
Iwmud out; -2 if they try to force him to reveal his secrets.
Mansbane
The creature known as Mansbane is probably a troll of 
some sort, perhaps a Hill-troll that grew strong and fell in 
the pits of Dol Guldur. No-one has ever seen it and lived, 
but the devastation left in its wake is plain to see. The 
beast appears, ravages a settlement or a camp, killing 
everyone present, then vanishes into the night. Despite 
its apparent size, the best trackers have been unable to 
follow its trail, as though the beast took to the air after 
its atrocities.
Mansbane’s attacks have increased since Dol Guldur’s 
fall; Radagast wonders if the monster was in the thrall 
of the Necromancer, and now that its master is gone, 
the beast is free to ravage and despoil. It has never been 
encountered in the forest, but has attacked the Woodmen 
from the Nether Vales to the Forest Gate. 
Mansbane might possess several powerful abilities, such 
as In the Sack with You!, Seize Victim and Thick Hide.
Notable Places
The Village of Stonyford
Stonyford, (Stánford in the language of the Vales) is the 
southernmost settlement of the Beornings beyond the Old 
Forest Road. Here a stone tower once stood, and a ford to 
cross the river. Of the tower only a pile of stones remain, 
and the ford has long gone. (Stonyford and its inhabitants 
are detailed in Wilderland Adventures).
The Long Barrows
The Northmen of old laid their kings to rest in the Long 
Barrows. These mounds crowned in simbelmynë, the 
white Evermind flower, hold the honoured dead from 
the earliest days. It is said that the oldest mound is the 
tomb of a great lord who led his people out of the north 
to settle along the Anduin and was counted among the 
Wise. Atop the barrows is a complicated arrangement 
of earthworks and standing stones. Those who can 
understand the movement of the heavens say that these 
stones form an astronomical calendar, and that the 
changes of the seasons and the turning of the years can 
be predicted by studying the stones and the shadows 
they cast upon the land. At times of turmoil, the stones 
may even be used to predict the future by those with the 
lore (normally such feats require a DC 25 Intelligence 
(Lore) check, but those with Ancient Lore require DC 15 
only) to read them.
Stonehallow
Stonehallow is an ancient fortification in the middle of 
the East Anduin Vales. It was once a Dwarven quarry, dug 
to build the Old Forest Road. The stone-hungry Dwarves 
created a huge steep-sided gash in the hillside, and Men 
later built walls along the edges of the gash and towers to 
guard it. Now, it is a refuge for the Woodmen who cannot 
reach the forest in time of war. The caves at the back of 
Stonehallow contain provisions, and the open space of the 
old quarry is large enough to hold thousands of animals. 
When danger threatens, the herders drive their animals 
through the gates of Stonehallow, then man the walls.
The Woodmen always station a few brave warriors at 
Stonehallow, to keep the place in good repair and to 
ensure that no outlaws or Orcs conquer the refuge and 
deny it to them. By the standards of the Dwarves who 
made the Road or the Men of the South, Stonehallow is

--- PAGE 57 ---
57
like a child’s model of a defensive redoubt, but it serves its 
purpose for the Woodmen.
Pale Rider Caves
The Pale Rider Caves lie a short distance south of the Old 
Forest Road. The hills in this area are white and chalky. Old 
pits scar the surface of the hills, where the Dwarves and 
later the Northmen dug for making lime. Some forgotten 
tribe of Northmen cut the image of a horse and rider into 
the side of a green hill, and that landmark is visible for 
miles around. Tales say that one day, the horse and rider 
will come to life and ride to the aid of the Free Peoples.
Today, though, the Pale Rider serves as a dire warning. 
At the time of the Great Plague, a cruel king ordered that 
all those infected with the sickness be driven into the 
caves and walled up, so their sickness might be contained 
within. The ghosts of the angry dead still haunt the caves, 
and the Woodmen say that the touch of a ghost brings the 
marks of the plague upon its victim.
Field of Heroes
The Field of Heroes is a flat, stony area in the south of the 
Vales, near the path that leads to Rhosgobel. The Woodmen 
rarely fight pitched battles, preferring to hide within the 
forest and ambush their enemies, but when they must 
face enemies openly they do so here. Four times in living 
memory a force of Woodmen has met forces of the Shadow 
in battle here, and three times they have been victorious. In 
the summer, the Woodmen practise fighting here, and hold 
tournaments of arms, foot races, and archery.
New Fellowship Phase Undertaking: 
Compete on the Field of Heroes 
(Woodmen only)
Woodmen companions spending a Fellowship phase in 
any one of the Woodmen settlements of Mirkwood may 
complete on the Field of Heroes to gain renown in front 
of their peers. The entry fee for the tournament is 5s. 
The hero must then make three DC 15 checks, using 
Strength (Athletics), Dexterity (Acrobatics), and 
Wisdom (Survival), and then two weapon skill checks 
against AC 15. If the hero accrues three successes they 
win 10s, four successes is worth 20s and five successes 
wins 50s.
The Elftower
This lonely tower of ivory stone was once a watchtower 
on the road to the land of Oropher, the Elvenking, in the 
days when the Woodland Realm extended over the whole 
forest. It was abandoned long ago, but so solid are its 
foundations or so powerful the spells that were laid upon 
them that it still stands intact. For many centuries, sheep 
grazed inside its curtain walls and the tower was nothing 
more than a strange landmark in an empty land, and 
people called it Elfengard.
Two years after Dol Guldur fell, a strange Man took up 
residence in the tower. He claims to be the Necromancer’s 
former apprentice, and a band of Orcs and evil Men serve 
him out of fear, believing that he has inherited the power 
of his dread master. He has tried to convince the folk of the 
East Nether Vales to serve him, but so far they have refused. 
He has therefore turned his eye towards the Woodmen. 
He fancies that if he could slay the wizard Radagast, then 
surely the people of the wood would bow to him. For the 
moment his presence is unknown by most of those who live 
in the Vales, but he will soon make his move.
Gladden Fields
As the River Gladden spills into the Anduin, it creates a 
water-logged landscape of ponds, little slow-flowing 
channels and marshes called the Gladden Fields. The 
marshes are not especially perilous or unpleasant — this 
land knew the Elves, long ago, and their blessing lingers 
here. In summer, the fields become fields of gold and 
streams of silver as flowers bloom on the banks and fish 
leap in the waters. However, travelling at speed through 
the marshes is impossible. Those who choose not to march 
around the marshes must either use a flat-bottomed boat, 
or resign themselves to struggling in and out of sucking 
mud. 
These marshes have always been deserted. No great 
kingdoms ever claimed the region, so it has always been 
left to the poor and the forgotten. For much of the Third 
Age, Hobbits lived in the Gladden Fields. Eventually, most 
of them migrated over the mountains into Eriador, but the 
Marshes were never wholly abandoned. As the Shadow 
grew in Mirkwood, agents of the Enemy occupied the 
Gladden Fields, driving out the existing residents. The 
The Lands of the River

--- PAGE 58 ---
Rhovanion Region Guide
58
presence of Orcs and other fell beasts has not diminished 
the beauty of this land, but make it even more dangerous.
Combat Scenery: bogs, briars, mud, patches of dry 
ground, shallow water, sucking bog, the stench of death 
(only around the Dwimmerhorn or other blighted areas), 
warm sunlight and a cool breeze from the south (only on 
clear summer days)
Wildlife
Fish thrive in the shallow waters of the Gladden Fields 
feeding on insects and worms wriggling through the mud. 
Many species of bird also nest here — a loud noise fills 
the sky with startled birds. Otters burrow in the muddy 
banks.
There are a few dangerous creatures in the marshes. Grim 
Hawks stalk through the reeds in the east of the Gladden 
Fields, while the middle reaches of the river are home to 
Swarms of Poisonous Snakes and fat black blood-sucking 
leeches. The brownish waters may conceal stranger beasts 
— legends speak of giant swamp boars as big as houses, 
of slimy monsters lurking in brackish waters, of wisps and 
boggins and sneeps.
Inhabitants
River-folk and Woodmen do not live in the Gladden Fields, 
but they do camp along its edges when fishing or bird-
hunting. There are several hillocks in the region that 
make good camping grounds, as the ground there is dry 
and solid. Other humans do live in the fields — outcasts, 
hermits and trappers for the most part, as well as fugitives 
from the East Nether Vales who fled Dol Guldur. 
Orcs and Goblins dwell in the central part of the marshes. 
Low mists cloak the Gladden Fields at times, and the 
Orcs use them to hide from the light of the sun. The Orc-
chieftains always have trouble keeping their followers in 
line in the marshes; fishermen often find Goblins floating 
face-down in the streams. 
The Woodmen also have legends of the Tree-people, a race 
of men who they believe lived in Mirkwood before them. 
The Tree-people are said to be gnarled and brown-skinned, 
resembling old men and women even in their youth. They 
can turn themselves into tree-shape, and in this form are 
almost indistinguishable from the trees around them. If 
you are very clever and very lucky, you can spot the faces 
of the Tree-people peering out of the bark. Stories say that 
most of the Tree-people left Mirkwood when the Shadow 
fell upon it, and migrated across the Anduin to the 
Wolfswood and the Gladden Fields. Woodmen passing 
the Gladden Fields on the way to the Mountain Hall point 
at particularly human-looking trees and wonder if they 
sometimes walk.
Wild Hobbits of the Anduin Vales
Description, Names and Starting Attitudes
Wild Hobbits dress in simple outfits of spun cloth or 
crudely cured furs. In contrast to the round, cheery faces 
of the Shire Hobbits, Wild Hobbits are often gaunt and 
serious. Wide, wild eyes are sharp and untrusting, and 
their bodies are rarely plump – save for elders who have 
earned a place of admiration among their kin. They always 
carry simple tools of survival, most often fishing tackle 
and simple hand tools, and move about the watercourses 
of the Vales of Anduin on little boats of reeds.
E
E
Holes of the
Wild Hobbits
Dwimmerhorn
Gladden
Fields

--- PAGE 59 ---
59
Wild Hobbits take many of the names used amongst the 
Woodmen and Beornings. In the Shire such names are 
oft considered old-fashioned and ‘Heroic’, but the Wild 
Hobbits shorten and simplify their names in regular use 
(‘Gary’ for Garivald, for example) and do not use family 
names. 
Wild Hobbits are Unknown to most other Cultures, and 
look Askance at most visitors other than their cousins and 
the Éafolc (they are Friendly towards both).
Standard of Living
Wild Hobbits have no room in their hard lives for the 
burdens of useless items and are ranked as Frugal. 
Bonus Equipment: A travelling cloak of mottled green 
and brown, travelling gear for the current season, a 
sturdy dagger, 2d6 silver pennies, plus choose any one: 
fishing tackle, a hunting trap or a large smoked and 
salted fish.
Wild Hobbit Traits
Your hero derives the following traits from their ancestry:
Ability Score Increase — Your Dexterity score increases 
by 2 and you may increase any two other ability scores 
by 1.
Adventuring Age — 25-60. Wild Hobbits value family 
above all else and have a deep and abiding distrust of 
outsiders. Those who venture out are either young and 
taking desperate chances or have had some calamity 
foisted upon them. Around their fiftieth year, even the 
most ambitious Wild Hobbits think seriously of finding a 
hidden refuge and attending to their family’s needs.
Size — Like their civilised kin, Wild Hobbits are Small.
Speed — Your base walking speed is 25 feet.
Untroubled by Shadows — When in a blighted area, 
you must make a DC 5 Wisdom saving throw to avoid 
Shadow instead of the regular DC 15.
Hobbit Nimbleness – You can move through the space 
of any creature who is at least one size larger than yours.
Clever Beyond Compare — You have proficiency in either 
the Investigation or the Riddle skill.
Hobbit Elusiveness — You have proficiency in the Stealth 
skill.
Languages — You speak the Vale of Anduin tongue, 
an archaic version of Westron that is also spoken by 
Beornings and Woodmen.
Cultural Virtues
Despite their great distance from the comfortable lands of 
the Shire, the Wild Hobbits are very similar to the settled 
folk there. A Wild Hobbit may select any of the Hobbit 
Cultural Virtues starting on page 108 of the Player’s 
Guide. But they also have their own traditions, and many 
Wild Hobbits are Vexing Riddlers of the highest order.
Cultural Heirlooms
Wild Hobbits can sometimes be found in the possession of 
a Barbed Fishing Spear. However, they can also select the 
The Lands of the River

--- PAGE 60 ---
Rhovanion Region Guide
60
other Hobbit Heirlooms found on page 159 of the Player’s 
Guide. You should work with the Loremaster to rework the 
Heirlooms to fit their origin within the Vales of Anduin.
Wild Hobbits of the Anduin Vales 
Cultural Virtue: Vexing Riddler
He knew, of course, that the riddle-game was sacred 
and of immense antiquity, and even wicked creatures 
were afraid to cheat when they played at it.
Riddle-craft is a respected tradition among your folk 
and is commonly used to pass the long nights in the 
river-burrows. You know well the ancient laws that 
govern riddling, and you are capable of spinning 
riddles that can vex even the keenest listener. You twist 
words and conceal intent with great skill. If it falls 
to you to make introductions in an Audience, you may 
use Riddle instead of Traditions if the nature or goals 
of the Company must be kept secret. Additionally, you 
can challenge others to the ancient riddle game. If 
you do so, make an opposed skill check and if you are 
successful then you gain Inspiration. You must take a 
long rest before using this ability again.
Wild Hobbits of the Anduin Vales 
Cultural Heirloom: Barbed Fishing 
Spear
The Hobbits of the Anduin Vale are expert fishermen 
and craft excellent barbed spears of reed and wood to 
capture their prey. You are the bearer of one such 
spear, and it serves you well in your hunt for sweet and 
juicy fish. With it, you are able to pull a fine meal from 
even the most unlikely waters. When you are serving 
as a Hunter on a journey on or near a watercourse or 
lake, you may elect to automatically pass a Survival 
check that results from a hunting Journey Event (for 
example, a result of 2 or 7 on the standard Journey 
Events table). If you do so, you are considered to have 
rolled a number that would produce a result equal to 
the DC of the check.
Notable Characters
Arciryas, Servant of Saruman
Arciryas is a man of Gondor. He was once a Master 
Healer in Minas Tirith, and learned the arts of herbalism 
and chirugery in the Houses of Healing. His curiosity led 
him to consult old, musty scrolls in the archives, scrolls 
that spoke of the atrocities and evil spells worked by the 
Enemy. Arciryas saw many warriors of Gondor who were 
wounded by Orc-poison and other devices, and believed 
he could heal them if only he learned their secrets. When 
his research could go no further, he went to the Tower of 
Orthanc and consulted with Saruman the White, who had 
himself long studied the arts of the Enemy.
Arciryas, Servant of Saruman 
Medium Human
STR 
10 (+0)
DEX 
13 (+1)
CON 
12 (+1)
INT 
17 (+3)
WIS 
12 (+1)
CHA 
15 (+2)
Armour Class 11
Hit Points 33 (6d8+6)
Speed 30 ft
Skills History +5, Medicine +5, Shadow-lore +7
Senses passive Perception 11
Languages Westron, Sindarin
Challenge 1 (200 XP)
Cunning Speech. If Arciryas has a chance to speak, 
then any intelligent foes within earshot must make a DC 
13 Wisdom saving throw or suffer Disadvantage when 
attacking him.
Master Healer (Recharges after a short or long rest). 
If Arciryas spends time with a hero, he can either heal 13 
(3d8) points of damage, or remove one condition from 
the following list: Frightened, Paralysed, Stunned or 
Unconscious.
Actions
Poisoned Knife. Melee Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 
5 ft, one target. Hit: 3 (1d4+1) poison damage and the 
target loses 2 (1d4) additional poison damage from blood 
loss at the end of each its following turns, unless it spends 
an action to staunch the wound.
Arciryas never returned to Gondor. Today, he lives in the 
Gladden Fields. He is a student of herb-lore, and says that 
the medicinal properties of the many plants that grow 
in the marshes must be catalogued. He is devoted to his 
work, spending long days wandering the wilderness,

--- PAGE 61 ---
61
poking under reeds with his long white staff. He travels 
south to Isengard every few months to report to the 
White Wizard. Sometimes, he suspects that Saruman has 
another purpose in mind for him, beyond searching the 
fields for herbs and roots. The people of Mountain Hall 
know of Arciryas, and call upon his expertise for wounds 
that they cannot heal.
Motivation: I will prove myself to my master, and 
Saruman’s regard is all that matters
Expectations: +1 if the heroes have news of strange things 
in the Gladden Fields; -2 if they challenge his wisdom
Byrgol
In the Gladden Fields, a brave Hobbit is usually a dead 
Hobbit. This is not the Shire, protected by Rangers and 
Wizards — this is the Wild. If a Hobbit is caught by an Orc 
or even a Man, his fate is likely to be a grim one. Therefore, 
wise wild Hobbits hide in the undergrowth when the Big 
Folk go by, and stay almost invisible in the shadows.
Byrgol 
Small Hobbit
STR 
10 (+0)
DEX 
18 (+4)
CON 
15 (+2)
INT 
17 (+3)
WIS 
15 (+2)
CHA 
12 (+1)
Armour Class 16 (Leather Corslet)
Hit Points 39 (8d6+16)
Speed 25 ft
Skills Perception +4, Riddle +5, Stealth +6
Senses passive Perception 14
Languages Westron
Challenge 3 (700 XP)
Art of Disappearing. Byrgol can Hide with perfect 
success. He is considered to have rolled a 20 on any 
Stealth checks.
Region-lore (Gladden Fields). If Byrgol is with 
the Company for a journey that begins or ends in 
the Gladden Field, the Guide rolls 1d8+4 for the 
Embarkation Roll.
Stealthy. Byrgol can use his bonus action to Hide.
Actions
Multiattack. Byrgol makes two attacks with his short 
sword.
Short Sword. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 7 (1d6+4) piercing damage.
Byrgol is a brave Hobbit. He found a sword in a wrecked 
boat — it’s really more of a long knife — and stole it. He’s 
proved surprisingly successful in battle — a well-placed 
stab from below has emptied the guts of more than a few 
Orcs. 
Motivation: To reclaim the Gladden Fields.
Expectations: +1 if the heroes have recently fought the 
Enemy; -2 if they don’t respect his abilities.
Notable Places
The Dwimmerhorn
The fortress of Dwimmerhorn stands on a huge stone that 
rises from the waters of the Gladden Fields like the half-
buried skull of some primordial titan. There is only one 
safe path that winds around and up the steep sides of the 
rock to the fortress above, and that path is guarded by 
Orcs and Wargs. 
The fortress is — or was — an outpost of Dol Guldur, 
established hundreds of years ago to aid in Sauron’s 
search for the Ring. Now, renegade Orcs and evil Men 
inhabit it.
The Dwimmerhorn is an evil place. The Necromancer’s 
servants built a dread temple atop the rock, dedicated to 
the dark powers, and the land around it is tainted by its 
presence. If Sauron ever recovered his Ring, then this taint 
would spread over all the world. The fortress atop the 
Dwimmerhorn features in Wilderland Adventures.
Holes of the Wild Hobbits
The villages and holes of the Hobbits are long abandoned 
and waterlogged, inhabited only by badgers and voles. 
Some were still in use up until relatively recently. The 
River-Hobbits were never as wealthy or sophisticated as 
their cousins in the Shire, but they collected curiosities 
and trinkets from Wilderland. 
Gollum said that his Grandmother had ‘many Elven-
rings’, and while this was doubtless a lie, there may be 
magic treasures left in the mud of a half-collapsed Hobbit 
pantry.
The Lands of the River

--- PAGE 62 ---
Rhovanion Region Guide
62
West Nether Vales
The desolate plains of the West Nether Vales seem 
endless on first sight. Even from the heights of the Misty 
Mountains, the Anduin is only a distant ribbon of silver, 
and many leagues of emptiness lie in between. The east 
portion makes for good grazing or farmland, but the farms 
of the Northmen that once stood here were swallowed up 
by the grass long ago. The western wold is a landscape of 
small wooded thickets and limestone hills rising up to the 
granite of the Misty Mountains.
The Gladden marks the northern border of the West 
Nether Vales. To the south, the land climbs towards the 
stony highlands of the Dimrill Dale, or enters the tree-
shrouded valley of the Golden Wood where no traveller 
dares go. 
Combat Scenery: boulders, cold winds, crags, old walls, 
ravines, scattered rocks, slopes, thickets, warm golden sun.
Wildlife
The western region is especially empty of life. A traveller 
might spot a coney, or a crow, or maybe a sullen bear 
in one of the little woods. To the east, where the land is 
richer, there are grazing herds of wild horses and cattle, as 
well as deer and the wolf packs that prey on them.
Inhabitants
Once, this region was the granary of Khazad-Dûm, the 
great city of the Dwarves under the Misty Mountains. Many 
Northmen worked the land as land-tillers and herdsmen, 
and provided the Dwarves with food in exchange for 
their work as builders, smiths and miners. They lived in 
scattered homesteads, until the Dwarves helped them 
build a town close to the mountains that they named 
Dwarrowhall. The town and the surrounding farms were 
abandoned in the years after the fall of the mines — once 
Khazad-Dûm was deserted, there was no market for the 
Northman farmers, and they diminished, as many struck 
out east and north in search of new homes.
Today, the Orcs are the only permanent denizens of 
the West Nether Vales. They have secret lairs in the 
mountains, guarding the approaches to the Redhorn Pass 
and the Firiengate, the other passage that crosses the 
Misty Mountains at the source of the River Gladden. They 
rarely come into the lowlands except when commanded 
to do so by some greater power.
In years past, the Northman tribe known as the Leofrings 
lived in this land, but Orcs from Dol Guldur attacked and 
drove them away into the south. Since the Battle of Five 
Armies, a few of them have returned, and more migrate 
north every year. They fear the enchantments of the 
Golden Wood, so they come up along the Dimrill Dale.
Notable Characters
Arnulf the Leofring
Arnulf was one of the survivors of the attack on 
Dwarrowhall in 2940. His whole family was slain — or 
worse, captured — by the Orcs of Dol Guldur. The loss 
drove him mad. Unlike the other Leofrings, he does not 
travel the Vales of Anduin during the year; instead, he lives 
in the ruins of Dwarrowhall, sharpening his spear-point 
and plotting revenge. Ghosts beset him, and sometimes 
Arnulf is a danger to anyone who comes too close, for he 
E Dwarrowhall
West Nether
Vales
E
E
E
The Ford of 
the Leofrings
The Old 
Dwarf Road
The Lady’s Garden

--- PAGE 63 ---
63
may mistake them for Orcs or spectres of the dead and 
attack them. At other times, he welcomes enemies of the 
Enemy to Dwarrowhall. 
Arnulf the Leofring 
Medium Human
STR 
17 (+3)
DEX 
12 (+1)
CON 
10 (+0)
INT 
14 (+2)
WIS 
12 (+1)
CHA 
10 (+0)
Armour Class 14 (Ring-mail)
Hit Points 31 (7d8)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Investigation +4, Shadow-lore +4, Stealth +3
Senses passive Perception 11
Languages Westron
Challenge 2 (450 XP)
Ambush. During his first turn, Arnulf has Advantage on 
attack rolls against any creature that hasn’t taken a turn. 
If he scores a melee critical hit on a target in this turn, that 
target is knocked Prone.
Actions
Great Spear. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 9 (1d12+3) piercing damage
Reactions
Deadly Spear-Thrust. Arnulf may use his reaction to 
make a single melee attack against a creature that has 
just attacked him. If he inflicts a critical hit with this 
ability, the target is knocked Prone as the blow strikes a 
knee or other joint.
Arnulf knows the ruins better than any other Leofring, and 
has discovered a network of Dwarf tunnels under the city. 
These tunnels are mostly clogged with earth and fallen 
debris, but he has excavated some of the ones around his 
home and uses them to sneak around the ruins.
Motivation: To make Orc-kind pay for their evil
Expectations: +1 if there is Dwarf in the Company; -2 if 
the heroes make light of his suffering
Haldir of Lórien
The Elves of Lórien dwell deep in the Golden Wood, and 
have little traffic with outsiders. There are still a few of 
them who leave the forest to gather news and watch for 
enemies. Haldir is one of these. He is one of the few Elves 
who speaks the Common Tongue fluently. Sometimes, he 
visits the camps of the Leofrings or the River-folk with his 
brothers Rúmil and Orophin, for there are some among 
them who welcome Elves. These are not Elf-friends, but 
simply good-hearted people willing to bring the Elves 
news from the outside world.
Motivation: To keep the Golden Wood safe and its 
borders secure
Expectations: +1 if there is an Elf in the Company; -2 if 
there is a Dwarf or the heroes speak ill of his masters
The Leofrings
The people of Leof are close kin to the folk of Rohan. They are descended from followers of Eorl who strayed during 
the migration south. They are nomads, wandering through all the Vales of Anduin in search of good grazing for 
their herds. Unlike most Northmen of the Vales of Anduin, the Leofrings have preserved their ancestors’ superior 
horsemanship, a skill so legendary that the Dwarves once thought the Éothéod were half-horse, half-men. 
The Leofrings have a great dread of forests, especially Mirkwood, and consider it bad luck to walk beneath the 
trees. They travel in cohorts of a dozen families or so, led by a headman. These cohorts wander through the Vales, 
travelling as far south as the borders of Rohan and as far north as the Gore, but they all return to Dwarrowhall 
for the yuletide every year. Most of them dwell west of Anduin. In years past, they were friends of the Woodmen, 
but as the power of Dol Guldur grew, some of the Leofrings chose to bow before the Shadow and traded with the 
folk of the East Nether Vale. They sold horses to them, and some Leofrings even entered into the service of the 
Necromancer. Then, a year before the Battle of Five Armies, a host of Orcs attacked the Leofrings as they gathered 
at Dwarrowhall, and they fled the North.
The Lands of the River

--- PAGE 64 ---
Rhovanion Region Guide
64
Haldir of Lórien 
Medium Elf
STR 
15 (+2)
DEX 
20 (+5)
CON 
18 (+4)
INT 
14 (+2)
WIS 
15 (+2)
CHA 
12 (+1)
Armour Class 17 (Leather Corslet)
Hit Points 85 (10d8+40)
Speed 30 ft
Saving Throws Dexterity +8, Wisdom +5
Skills Investigation +5, Perception +5, Stealth +8, 
Traditions +5
Senses passive Perception 15
Languages Westron, Sindarin, Quenya
Challenge 6 (2,300 XP)
Elven Cloak. Haldir has Advantage on any Dexterity 
(Stealth) checks to hide. While hidden, any Wisdom 
(Perception) checks to find him are made with 
Disadvantage.
Actions
Great Bow of the Golden Wood. Ranged Weapon 
Attack: +8 to hit, range 150/600 ft, one target. Hit: 9 
(1d8+5) piercing damage. Haldir may use his bonus 
action to grant himself Advantage on his attack roll. If 
Haldir rolls a 18, 19 or 20 he has scored a critical hit.
Dagger. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 7 (1d4+5) piercing damage
Notable Places
Dwarrowhall
Dwarrowhall lies in a mountain fold north of Dimrill 
Dale. The town once thrived, but is now home to only a 
few Men. The Leofrings are not a numerous people, and 
when they stay here they fill less than half the town. 
The great granaries once used to store food for the 
Dwarves of Moria are now hollow ruins, but some of the 
small stone houses that the Northmen built with the aid of 
Dwarf stonemasons are still mostly habitable.
The walls encircling Dwarrowhall are also mostly intact; 
the Leofrings have filled the few gaps with piled stones, 
as they cannot repair the Dwarven stonework. They also 
built a wooden gatehouse to defend the entrance to the 
town, as well as an enclosure for horses outside the walls, 
for the riders are not comfortable riding along the narrow 
cobbled streets.
Dwarrowhall was plundered by Orcs several times in its 
history, and there is no treasure or beauty left in the town. 
It is a place of shelter, nothing more.

--- PAGE 65 ---
65
The Ford of the Leofrings
The Ford of the Leofrings is a sheltered spot where they 
cross the Great River. When the River is low, the horses can 
swim across the waters in moderate safety. At other times, 
the Leofrings use low-sided rafts that they push across the 
river with long poles and ropes. The Leofrings have little 
love for the water, and fear the river’s wrath. 
However, crossing points for horses and wagons are few 
and far between on the Anduin, so they guard this ford 
with all their might. Even when most of the Leofrings are 
away in the south, they always leave a few warriors here 
to secure their claim on the Ford. Agents of Dol Guldur 
watch the ford closely and report any large movements 
to their masters in the forest. Travellers from Dol Guldur 
use this place to cross the Anduin without trespassing into 
the land of the Beornings. In the years before the fall of 
the Necromancer, many ill-favoured folk gathered here, 
and the Leofrings feared they would attack the ford. Now, 
without the power of Dol Guldur to threaten them, the 
Leofrings are once again secure.
The Old Dwarf Road
The Dwarves built the fortress of Dimrill Watch to protect 
the last stretch of the ancient Dwarf-road that ran from 
the east gate of Moria north to the Old Ford and then on 
to Mirkwood. Few traces of this road survive, although a 
traveller may sometimes happen onto an oddly straight 
ridge in the wilderness and follow it for a time. Dimrill 
Watch still stands on the northern border of Dimrill 
Dale. The fortress rises from the eastern foothills of the 
Misty Mountains, and is mostly intact, for Dwarf-wrought 
stone endures long after its builders departed. Orcs out of 
Moria sometimes use the fortress as a base for raids into 
the West Nether Vales or Lorien, but dare not dwell there 
for long, out of fear of Dwarven ghosts that are said to 
haunt the fortress.
The Lady’s Garden
The Lady’s Garden is a region on the edge of the Golden 
Wood. A stream flows out from the mountains and tumbles 
down into a sheltered dell, where many strange and 
beautiful flowers grow. This place was clearly inhabited 
at one point, for there are carved benches and paths of 
crushed white stone. A single seat, like a throne, sits in the 
centre of this curious garden. In times past, it is said that 
the Enchantress of the Golden Wood received visitors here 
and wove her spells upon them. The Elves of Lórien rarely 
stray from their home deep in the woods, but the Lady’s 
power lingers. No evil thing may enter the Garden. 
East Nether Vales
Some lands are blessed by those who dwell in them, like 
the lands of the Elves, and some are made wonderful by 
long toil, like the cities of the Dwarves. Others, though, 
are naturally blessed with fertility and temperate weather 
and beauty. The Shire of the Hobbits is one such place. 
So too are the East Nether Vales — of all the lands of the 
The Lands of the River

--- PAGE 66 ---
Rhovanion Region Guide
66
river north of Rauros, these regions are perhaps the most 
beautiful and the richest.
Many wars were fought for their possession; these Vales 
were part of the Kingdom of Rhovanion, and were then 
conquered by the Wainriders out of the East. Later, the 
attacks of the Balchoth were so vicious that the Nether 
Vales were wholly depopulated and abandoned, but in 
the centuries that followed the victory at the Fields of 
Celebrant, they were re-colonised. Unfortunately, these 
new settlers soon fell under the shadow of Dol Guldur. 
The dread fortress of the Necromancer lies only a few 
miles within the forest, and its darkness leeches into the 
surrounding territory. Those who stayed here were forced 
to choose — swear fealty and pay tribute to Dol Guldur, 
or leave. Today, people still dwell in the East Nether Vale; 
in fact, this might be the most densely populated part 
of the Vales of Anduin, although that says little in these 
empty times. 
All those who live here, however, chose to bow to the 
Shadow. The beauty and bounty of the land seems 
unnatural, and all that they achieve is somehow empty. 
Most of the inhabitants live in a village called the Toft, in 
a land of wooded hills and fertile plains. The Toft supplied 
many of the needs of those who dwelt in the fortress of 
Dol Guldur when the Necromancer was there. Now that 
the Hill of Sorcery is empty, the folk of the Toft look to 
the future with trepidation, for they have become used to 
servitude and dread.
The northern region, near Rhosgobel, is called the Run, 
and it is an empty land. It looks welcoming at first glance, 
but bands of Orcs often emerged from the Narrows of the 
Forest to despoil it. Now, the land is claimed by the men 
of the Tyrant’s Hill, a fortress that lies just inside the forest 
eaves (see page 120).
West of the Run is the Neck. A ridge of steep-sided hills 
dominates this land, running between the Forest and 
the River. Marshes pool at the feet of these hills. It was 
here that Isildur fell in battle, and the Ring was lost in the 
waters of the Great River.
The southern toe of the land, closest to Lórien, is called 
the Strifelands. No men dwell here. Huge flocks of crows 
circle endlessly over the broken, rocky landscape, save 
only when a storm blows down from the north. On stormy 
days, it is as though two giants made of lightning and 
thunder strive against each other, one on the west side of 
the river and one — darker and more terrible — reaching 
out of the east.
Combat Scenery: bogs, incessant buzzing (along the 
river), lone trees, mud, nettle banks, scattered rocks, 
slopes, thickets, torrential storms, webs
Wildlife
The western Vales are home to cattle and horses, as well as 
thousands of swans in the marshy Neck running along the 
east bank opposite the Gladden Fields. That region is also 
home to alarming Swarms of blood-sucking or stinging 
Insects that rise up in huge clouds to beset travellers. 
The wandering Erringmen carry fire-pots full of stinking 
incense when they must pass through this region.
The southern Vales show something of the taint of 
Mirkwood. Many animals in that region have jet-black 
fur or feathers. Huge black cats prowl the grasslands and 
Isildur’s Field
East Nether
Vales
E
E
E
Kingstone
The Toft

--- PAGE 67 ---
67
prey on the sheep and cattle of the folk who dwell here. 
(Sometimes, they also prey on children and lone travellers, 
but it is well known that a man who pays proper tribute 
to the Necromancer is safe from animal attack, for all the 
wild beasts in this land are in his thrall).
The eastern edge of the Vales are even more dangerous, 
as creatures from Mirkwood prowl here. Boars, bears and 
even some spiders can be seen in this land; all of them 
black as night, except for the spiders that glow with an 
unnatural luminescence like rotten moonlight.
Inhabitants
The folk of the Toft are of Northman stock, although they 
are mixed with Easterling blood. They are a sedentary 
people, living in their village and farming the land. 
The shadow of Dol Guldur lay over them for many 
generations, and they were inevitably changed by it. 
Those closest to Dol Guldur were wholly committed to 
the service of the Necromancer. They sent their sons and 
daughters to serve him as slaves, they freely gave tribute 
to him, and they worshipped him with vile and terrible 
ceremonies in the dead of night. Others gave tribute only 
grudgingly. They tried to forget Dol Guldur as they went 
about their lives. For them, tribute was a necessary evil, 
and life in the Necromancer’s realm was like living beside 
a snow-laden mountain. One day, the mountain must 
inevitably stir and the avalanche would then kill them 
all, but that day might be many centuries away, and 
until then the mountain was a safer place than the wild. 
The Necromancer had a legion of spies and informants 
among these people.
Those living outside the Toft dwell along the Great River, 
near the Ford of the Leofrings. They paid no tribute to 
Dol Guldur, and suffered many raids and other evils as 
punishment. They are a doughty but unfriendly people, 
and consider all outsiders to be potential foes. They do 
not welcome strangers to their territory.
Notable Characters
Gárhild the Fox
Gárhild was a spear-woman of the Woodmen of 
Rhosgobel. She lived in Mirkwood for many years, 
battling Spiders and Orcs and other things of darkness 
alongside her kin. Through her heroism, she won the 
trust of Radagast. He sent her as a spy into the East 
Nether Vales, where she has dwelt for more than ten 
years. He gifted her with a magical cloak that allowed her 
to take on the shape of a red fox to aid her mission. She 
watched the movements of the Necromancer’s servants, 
and helped lead the White Council into the forest to the 
gates of Dol Guldur. Now that the Necromancer is gone 
and the Shadow partially lifted from the forest, Gárhild 
has put aside her sword and magic cloak. She married a 
man of the Toft and now lives with her family on a small 
farmstead just south of the Run. None of her new kin, not 
even her children, know of her previous life, nor do they 
know about the broadsword and cloak concealed in the 
thatch of her farmhouse.
Motivation & Expectations: In her new life, Gárhild 
shares the views of other farmers (see page 71 of the 
Loremaster’s Guide )
Subjects of the Necromancer
The Necromancer was not a king. He did not rule the East Nether Vales. Those who dwelt in this land never saw him. 
He was an invisible dread presence, an unseen force that dominated their lives. Rarely, agents of the Necromancer 
would emerge from the forest to demand some particular tribute, but many years would go by without any contact 
with Dol Guldur. 
Visitors to the East Nether Vales would see no signs of the Necromancer’s influence on the people. The folk of the 
Toft did not carry the Necromancer’s symbol on their shields, nor did troops from Dol Guldur patrol the borders of 
this land. Traders from Gondor — and there were many visitors from the south in days gone by — saw no sign of the 
shadow here… but the Shadow saw them. Jealous eyes watched every visitor, and their numbers and movements were 
reported to the Necromancer’s spymasters.
The Lands of the River

--- PAGE 68 ---
Rhovanion Region Guide
68
Gárhild the Fox 
Medium Human
STR 
15 (+2)
DEX 
18 (+4)
CON 
12 (+1)
INT 
14 (+2)
WIS 
16 (+3)
CHA 
11 (+0)
Armour Class 14
Hit Points 38 (7d8+7)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Investigation +4, Shadow-lore +4, Stealth +6, 
Traditions +5
Senses passive Perception 13
Languages Westron
Challenge 3 (700 XP)
Fox-cloak (1/day). Gárhild may take the shape of a 
fox. In this form she has 4 (1d6+1) hit points and can 
use her action to make a bite attack (+6 to hit, reach 5 
ft, 1 piercing damage). If slain in this form, she does not 
transform back.
Warrior’s Charge. Gárhild gains Advantage on all 
attacks made in the first round of combat.
Actions
Multiattack. Gárhild makes two attacks with her 
broadsword.
Broadsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 8 (1d8+4) slashing damage.
Reactions
Snake-like Speed (Recharge 5-6). Gárhild is adept at 
avoiding injury and can use her reaction to halve the 
attack damage on an attack that she is aware of.
Vidugalum, Lord of the Toft
With the power of the Necromancer broken, old Vidugalum 
is the most powerful leader in the region. He commands 
the loyalty of dozens of men (as well as a brigade of Orcs 
that fled Dol Guldur) and has a wealthy and well-defended 
fort in the heart of the region.
Vidugalum sees himself as a practical and learned 
man. He has read many books and studied the histories 
of the kings. When the Necromancer was in power, 
Vidugalum bowed to Dol Guldur, but now that he is free, 
he intends to seize power himself and become a chieftain 
like Beorn. He considers questions of ‘good’ and ‘evil’ 
to be the mewlings of cowards and weak men who let 
their consciences cow them into inaction. Heroes, in 
Vidugalum’s eyes, are those brave enough to overcome 
their doubts and fears. He uses his Orcs to strike at his 
enemies not because he is a tyrant, but because it is 
necessary for progress and civilisation. 
Vidugalum is exceedingly old for a mortal man. Maybe 
he counts men of Númenor among his ancestry and 
so he remains vital and alert despite being more than 
eighty. His sons did not inherit his longevity though, so 
he has no clear heirs to receive his burdens. Of late, his 
thoughts have turned towards the fabled sorcery of the 
Necromancer, who was said to be able to prolong the life 
of his servants…
Motivation: It is my destiny to be a king of Rhovanion, 
and for the Toft to grow into a trading town like Lake-town
Expectations: +1 if the heroes agree that the ends justify 
the means; -2 if the Company has an Elf or objects to 
Vidagalum’s methods
Notable Places
Isildur’s Field
Tradition holds that this place is where Isildur, son of 
Elendil and heir to the kingdoms of Arnor and Gondor, fell 
in battle with the Orcs. For some years, it was a place of 
pilgrimage for warriors who came here to remember the 
great victory over the Shadow, and its cost. Men of Gondor 
built a monument here, but nothing remains of it now.
The Kingstone
Once, this land was part of the Kingdom of Rhovanion, the 
realm of the Northmen. This kingdom fell as all the works 
of mortals do, but some traces remain. The Kingstone is 
a small pillar of rock sitting atop a low hill overlooking 
the Anduin, facing west. On top of the pillar is the skull of 
a great beast — a Dragon, some say. Legends tell how all 
the princes and warriors of Rhovanion swore oaths upon 
the stone before embarking on adventures or wars. Other 
stories claim that the Dragon will roar when touched by 
hand of the true king of the Northmen. The touch of many 
hands has worn the skull smooth, for it is a tradition for 
visitors to put their sword-hand upon it for luck.
The Toft
The Toft is one of the largest towns in Wilderland — which 
means it is much smaller than Lake-town or Dale, but has 
several hundred souls live within its earthen ramparts.

--- PAGE 69 ---
69
Most of the buildings in the Toft are wooden, though a few 
are old stonework built by men of Gondor. Just outside the 
town is a large market field that is little used, for traders 
from the south no longer come here in great numbers. 
Merchants from Rhovanion and Lake-Town sometimes 
make the trek around the southern edge of Mirkwood to 
visit here, and a few ill-favoured Woodmen bring carved 
goods and furs to market here in summer. There is an inn 
here, the Ram’s Head. The keeper of this inn is a formidable 
old woman whose family are kin to the Erringmen; when 
angered, she shouts and hurls insults in a dozen different 
tongues from north and south and east. 
Vidugalum’s house — a fortified tower, surrounded by 
mounds and ditches — lies to the east of the town. His men, 
who bear the symbol of a red sun on their shields, patrol 
the roads around the Toft. Some of the men are Thugs, 
others Outlaws (see pages 73-75 of the Loremaster’s 
Guide).
In years past, certain people in this town worshipped 
the Necromancer of Dol Guldur, and offered him slaves 
and sacrifices as gifts to curry favour. Travellers claim 
that children went missing in the Toft with alarming 
frequency, and that there are secret tunnels and cellars 
beneath the rough wooden houses. The defeat of the 
Necromancer put an end to these practises, but they may 
begin again should the Shadow return to Dol Guldur.
The Power of the Kingstone 
Touching the Kingstone is said to bring good fortune 
and can inspire a hero to strive beyond all limitations. 
If the company’s path crosses the ancient site, a 
companion may spend Inspiration to regain a number 
of Hit Dice equal to half their Proficiency Bonus, 
rounded up.
The Lands of the River

--- PAGE 70 ---
Rhovanion Region Guide
70
- The Greatest -
of the forests 
...Beorn in his deep rolling voice told tales of the 
wild lands on this side of the mountains, and 
especially of the dark and dangerous wood, 
that lay outstretched far to North and South a 
day’s ride before them, barring their way to the 
East, the terrible forest of Mirkwood.
The sheer size of Mirkwood is almost beyond imagining for 
the people who live along its borders or under its boughs. 
From its northern border facing the steep slopes of the 
Grey Mountains, to its southern edge near the Brown 
Lands is a distance of more than four hundred miles. 
At its greatest width, this sea of trees is some two hundred 
miles wide. A traveller foolish enough to try crossing the 
forest lengthwise would take six months or more to make 
such a journey — assuming he survives, which is unlikely 
even for a seasoned wanderer. Mirkwood is the dark heart 
of the Wild.
Mirkwood is a wild wood, much more changeable than 
other forests like Fangorn or Lothlórien. The first Elves 
passed through the oldest sections of Mirkwood in the 
First Age of the World, long before the Sun and Moon 
climbed into the heavens, but other parts of Mirkwood 
are fresh, new growth that encroaches on what was once 
farmland. The forest is ever-shifting, unpredictable; it is 
new and old at the same time.
History of Mirkwood
Elves were the first to live here, and the first to name it Eryn 
Galen, the Greenwood. They dwelt in its dells and groves. 
In time, they gathered under the rule of an Elvenking, 
who built his hall on a great hill rising naked as an island 
among the sea of trees. 
These Elves were a simpler folk than the Elves of Doriath, 
delighting in wine and song and the hunt. They had little 
love for outsiders even in those days: they were suspicious 
of the powerful Dwarf-lords of Moria, and even resented 
the intrusions of their kin across the Great River. Men, 
too, dwelt in the woods, although they lived chiefly on the

--- PAGE 71 ---
71
edges, hewing trees for fuel and timber. The kingdoms of 
Men never last, though, and the wild wood endured. For 
long centuries, Greenwood was home only to Elves and 
beasts and outlaws.
The Greenwood was little troubled for many years, even 
as war and turmoil swirled through the wider world. 
Mortals lived and died in their petty kingdoms, and the 
Silvan Elves danced on the green grass under the stars 
and hunted in the deep places of the woods. It was not 
until the latter portion of the Second Age that the first 
inklings of the Shadow came to Mirkwood. The Enemy 
returned to his fortress in Mordor and made war on the 
Free Peoples. Fearing the growing strength of the Dark 
Lord, the Elves gradually drew back their borders. First, 
they made their home in the woods and vales north of the 
ancient Dwarf-road, and then retreated further north, to 
the slopes of the Dark Mountains. Evil things had come to 
nest there, and prince Thranduil distinguished himself as 
a warrior of great prowess by slaying the Great Vampire of 
the Emyn Duir.
In time, it became clear that retreat would offer no safety. 
The Elves of Greenwood joined the Last Alliance, sending 
a great army south to face the Enemy. In that war, the 
Elvenking was slain, and with him two thirds of those who 
followed him. In that time, Thranduil became King of the 
Silvan Elves, and he led the survivors of his army back to 
the shelter of the trees.
The Woodland Realm
Wearied and embittered by sorrow, the new Elvenking 
built a fortress and great hall north of the Dark Mountains, 
under the hills on the banks of the Forest River. The old 
palace in the south was abandoned, and the settlements 
in the mountains were used only lightly. The Elves looked 
to the east, trading with the Men of the Long Lake and 
Rhovanion instead of their cousins to the west. They 
also traded with Dwarves for gold and gemstones, for 
Thranduil always had a great love of beautiful things.
For many years, the idylls of the Elves resumed. It was 
as though time stood still in Greenwood, paused in an 
endless feast. A thousand years passed. Then, the Shadow 
first reached Greenwood. It began as a subtle change — 
the gloom beneath the trees deepened, paths became 
more treacherous, the animals more aggressive. Soon, 
Men who lived in the southern eaves of the wood spoke 
The Greatest of the Forests

--- PAGE 72 ---
Rhovanion Region Guide
72
of strange sicknesses among their herds of kine, of bad 
dreams and worse omens, of fell whispers on the wind. 
Newborn animals had hides or fur as black as night, and 
the fruit that grew on trees turned dark and foul-tasting. 
New saplings unfurled a canopy of pitchblack leaves. 
Eerie mists twined around the boles of the trees, and men 
started to call the forest Mirkwood. 
The Silvan Elves found their forest growing unfriendly to 
them. Their hunts could no longer range as far, and the 
branches of the trees clutched at each other to block out 
the starlight the Elves loved. Around the year 1100, the 
Wise learned that an evil power of great strength and 
malice now inhabited the ruins of the old elven fortress 
in the south, and sent word to the Elves warning them of 
the danger.
Orcs and worse things gathered in the southern part of 
Mirkwood. Poisonous vapours and eerie lights were 
reported, and sinister rumours spread about the dead 
walking under the shadows of the trees. Over the bald 
hill once inhabited by Elves now arose the fortress of 
Dol Guldur, and its unseen master became known as the 
Necromancer in the tongues of men.
The idylls of the Elves ended. Hunts became patrols, and 
feasts became councils of war. Thranduil was loath to 
make war upon Dol Guldur — nor could he had he wanted 
to, for the Necromancer’s strength didn’t reside in armies 
or strongholds, but in sorcery and witchcraft, and against 
such fell weapons the Wood-elves had but little power. The 
Elves protected their borders as best they could, but soon 
they became a people under siege.
The Northmen & The Bight
It was in this time that the Northmen of Rhovanion grew 
in strength and number. Most of these were descendants 
of those Men who in ages past entered Beleriand and 
fought alongside the Elves in their wars against Morgoth. 
They chiefly made their homes in the eastern eaves of 
the forest, but being great riders and breeders of horses 
they ruled the wide plains between Mirkwood and the 
River Running. These folk were the ancestors of many who 
today dwell in the North, and their blood is the blood of 
Dale and the Woodmen, and of the Horse-lords of Rohan 
too. The Elves of Mirkwood did not trust these Northmen 
at the best of times, and tried to shy them away from the 
borders of their guarded realm. They preferred to trade, 
as they do now, with those Men who lived further north, 
near the Lonely Mountain.
As the numbers of the Northmen grew, so too did their 
hunger for wood. The great forests of the south-east, which 
had hitherto escaped much of the corruption of the rest of 
Mirkwood, were cut down so the Northmen could build 
more of their great longhouses. Some of the Northmen 
clans practised good forestry, but a growing number cut 
the trees down and burnt out the roots to clear the land 
for pasture. As the Bight grew, pressing upon lands still 
claimed by the Woodland Realm, there was strife between 
Men and Elves beneath the trees.
Among the Elves, some whispered that the Northmen 
might be in league with the Necromancer. Many Northmen 
saw the Elves as nothing but dangerous wood-spirits, 
and accused them of stealing children and bewitching 
travellers. Fear and suspicion grew on both Sides.
In the winter of the year 1635, a terrible plague appeared 
in Wilderland and then spread south in the following 
months. The cold forced people to huddle together in the 
longhouses or perish, and the disease spread in those 
cramped conditions. Many tales told of travellers braving 
the snows and arriving at a longhouse of their kin, only 
to find a hundred corpses inside the silent hall. In some 
places, eight or nine out of every ten died.
The Northmen were severely diminished. Some tribes fled 
the plague by hiding in the deepest parts of Mirkwood, 
where they fell under the spells of the Necromancer or 
perished. Others endured as best they could, or abandoned 
their halls to move north, or west and then along the vales 
of the River Anduin. The Woodland Realm alone didn’t 
suffer from the plague, and the Elves continued their 
eternal hunting and feasting inside Thranduil’s sanctuary.
Dark Times
Hit severely by the disease, the southern kingdom of 
Gondor reduced its watch over its borders, eventually 
allowing strangers from the lands to the East to pass into 
Wilderland. In time, the number of these strangers grew, 
until the day when a confederation of evil Men crossed 
the frontiers in arms, sensing the weakness in the defences 
of the West. The coming of the Easterlings brought war to

--- PAGE 73 ---
73
Wilderland and the Southlands for years on end, and 
heralded a time of growing darkness.
All across Middle-earth, the forces of the Enemy slowly 
awoke. Among a long string of dire events, the last vestiges 
of the north-kingdom of Arnor fell after a long struggle 
against the Witch-king of Angmar, and the great city of the 
Longbeard Dwarves under the Misty Mountains was lost 
when they unleashed Durin’s Bane upon themselves. 
Even the Elves of Lórien were troubled by this new threat, 
and some left the Golden Wood hoping to find sanctuary 
inside the Woodland Realm, but were unable to pass the 
shadows of Dol Guldur and so turned south. 
For those who dwelt in Mirkwood, the fall of Moria and 
the northern kingdom of Men meant that the Old Forest 
Road was now in danger. The Dwarves built it many 
centuries before, to hasten traffic between their western 
and eastern settlements. The Silvan Elves tolerated it’s 
making, because of the friendship between the Dwarves of 
Moria and the Elves of Hollin, but only grudgingly so. The 
Dwarves maintained the road for many years, aided in 
later centuries by the Northmen. Now the Northmen were 
gone, and the Dwarves diminished.
For a time, the Elves tried to keep the road as their frontier 
against Dol Guldur, but it was too far from their realm 
to be effectively defended. Now, only Orcs walked the 
Dwarf-laid stones of the Forest Road, and parts of it were 
swallowed by the encroaching trees. Mirkwood became 
yet more perilous and trackless. 
Erebor & The Watchful Peace
Before the Dwarf-road was finally abandoned, refugees 
from Moria crossed Mirkwood and founded a new home 
in the roots of the Lonely Mountain. There, they found 
gemstones and gold, and Thrain I became their king. 
Other Dwarves travelled to the Dwarf-holds in the Grey 
Mountains. 
The Woodland Realm found itself hemmed in on two sides 
by Dwarves, and though there was little love between the 
two races, the Dwarves also traded with the same folk who 
brought wine to the Elvenking’s table. In this fashion, all 
three free folk — Elves, Dwarves and Men — found common 
cause for a time on the fringes of Northern Mirkwood.
In the year 2063 of the Third Age, Mithrandir the Grey 
Pilgrim, called Gandalf by some, dared to enter Dol 
Guldur, and walked the halls of that dread citadel where 
none but the servants of the Necromancer had been in a 
thousand years. The Necromancer withdrew, fleeing and 
hiding in the east, and the horrors of the Hill of Sorcery 
subsided for a time. There were still all manner of fell 
creatures — Orcs, Wood-wights, Spiders, Vampires and 
such monsters — in the southern portion of the forest, but 
the retreat of the Necromancer robbed them of their guiding 
hand. Divided, they could not hope to defeat the Elves. This 
time was known as the Watchful Peace, and was a time of 
great prosperity for the Woodland Realm. The borders of 
the Elf-Kingdom moved south again, even to the Old Forest 
Road. Thranduil gave thought to opening up the road once 
more, but chose caution instead, and a new road was 
cut through Northern Mirkwood. Some brave Elves even 
ventured south towards Dol Guldur, hoping to reclaim that 
place from the Necromancer’s taint. None returned.
In the west of the wood, a group of Northmen settled again 
in the shadow of the forest. They raised a long-house there, 
and hung a curious lamp of elven-make from the roof. 
The Lamp of Balthi protected — and still protects — the 
settlement from the horrors of the forest. The Northmen 
prospered in the days of peace, and soon Woodmen-
town arose in the growing clearing. The Woodmen were 
far from Thranduil’s kingdom, so there was little trade 
between the two, but the Elves gave the settlers what aid 
they could, so that they could prove worthy allies should 
the Enemy return.
The Watchful Peace ended in 2460, when the Necromancer 
returned to Dol Guldur. Again, Orcs besieged the 
Woodland Realm. Other horrors attacked Woodmen-
town, and only the light of the Lamp of Balthi kept them 
at bay. Nonetheless, many Woodmen retreated north, 
just as the Elves did more than a thousand years before, 
and built a new sanctuary in a well-defended place called 
Woodland Hall. In the north, attacks by Werewolves, 
Vampires and other horrors forced the Elves to abandon 
the settlements in the Mountains of Mirkwood.
Fire and Ice
In response to the return of the Necromancer, Galadriel 
of Lórien called upon the Wise to gather. This first White 
Council united the most powerful Elf-lords of Middle-earth 
The Greatest of the Forests

--- PAGE 74 ---
Rhovanion Region Guide
74
with the secretive Wizards. King Thranduil was invited, 
but refused — perhaps because he mistrusted Galadriel 
and her ambition, or perhaps because he feared that if Dol 
Guldur was provoked, the first and most dolorous stroke 
would fall on the Woodland Realm. The year was 2463, and 
the Wise agreed to set a watch on Southern Mirkwood. All 
three Wizards spent many years in and around the dark 
forest, spying on the doings of the Necromancer. In time, 
Radagast the Brown made his home in the woods, and 
became the permanent watchman over the Hill of Sorcery.
Though the Necromancer dared not move with the 
Wizards so close at hand, Mirkwood was troubled by other 
foes. Dragons crawled down from the Withered Heath 
to seize the gold of the northern dwarf-holds, and some 
worms crept into Mirkwood itself. The surviving Dwarves 
escaped to Erebor and the Iron Hills to nurse their wounds 
and plot revenge. The Elves, troubled by the passage of so 
many Dwarves across their realm, closed the Elf-path to 
travellers.
The Woodmen grew slowly in strength. The protection 
of the Wise gave them some confidence against the 
forces of Dol Guldur, but they still suffered greatly from 
the predations of Orcs and other creatures of darkness. 
Of all those who dwelt in Mirkwood, they were always 
the first to suffer the presence of the Shadow. Their two 
established settlements survived, but many other villages 
were swallowed by the woods. Some Woodmen set out for 
the Misty Mountains in search of fortune, while others 
clustered around Radagast, who offered them shelter. The 
Woodmen became his agents and aides. 
In 2758, the Long Winter struck the North. Mirkwood 
escaped the worst, although many trees in the north of 
the forest were frozen by the relentless winds, and the 
Woodmen of Mountain Hall survived only by great fortune. 
Gandalf travelled to the west, to Eriador, and Saruman to 
the south, leaving Radagast and the Woodmen to continue 
the vigil over Dol Guldur.
The Dragon of Erebor
The coming of Smaug in 2770 brought the destruction of 
the Kingdom under the Mountain and the end of the realm 
of Dale, and placed a dire threat upon the very threshold 
of the Elvenking’s halls. Had Smaug stirred himself, the 
Dragon might have destroyed the Woodland Realm just 
as he brought desolation upon Erebor. Still, Thranduil 
chose not to antagonise the Dragon, and the Forest Road 
remained barred to Dwarves and foreign Men (that is why 
Thrain II, son of Thror and father of Thorin Oakenshield 
was captured in Mirkwood and hauled off to Dol Guldur 
— he tried to cross the forest via the old road, and was 
discovered by Orcs).
The strength of Dol Guldur grew. The Woodmen 
encountered ghosts in greater numbers in the southern 
woods, and Orcs dared trespass on the Elf-path. They

--- PAGE 75 ---
75
harried Elven hunting parties, and scouts were even 
spotted near the Elvenking’s Halls. Gandalf came to 
Rhosgobel in 2850 to visit Radagast. That summer, he 
dared enter Dol Guldur for a second time, and discovered 
that the Necromancer was in truth Sauron, the Enemy who 
was believed destroyed in the War of the Last Alliance.
The White Council met again in the following year, and 
again invited Thranduil to join them, but their Woodmen 
messengers were ambushed and slain by Orcs, and so 
word never reached the Elvenking’s Halls that the Enemy 
was nearby. 
Had Thranduil known that it was Sauron himself who 
menaced the Woodland Realm, he might have joined 
Gandalf in urging a swift strike against Dol Guldur before 
Sauron’s power grew too great to challenge. Instead, 
the White Council continued to watch, and Mirkwood 
continued to be a battleground between the Free Peoples 
and the servants of the Shadow.
It was not a war, but every year brought with it new tales 
of woe. The Elves of the Woodland Realm redoubled their 
patrols, while the Woodmen grew ever more dour and fell-
handed in their ways. More and more Orcs slipped past 
the Woodmen and scoured the Gladden Fields for the lost 
Ruling Ring.
Recent Years
The year of 2941 will be remembered as long as folk dwell 
in Mirkwood. The White Council met again, and gathered 
their powers to drive Sauron out of Dol Guldur. The 
Necromancer fled before the wrath of the Wizards, and 
his fortress was abandoned. A short few weeks later, the 
Dragon died at the hand of Bard the Bowman, and the 
kingdoms of Erebor and Dale were both renewed.
A bright new spring has come to the north, and the 
promise of hope and light can be felt even beneath the 
mossy boughs of dark Mirkwood. The Elves are seen more 
and more, neighbours have become friends, and many 
good-hearted folk gather under the protection of Beorn 
or Bard. The Woodmen look to the south, and the new 
opportunities granted to them by the fall of Dol Guldur.
These are the last good years.
Regions of Mirkwood
It was not long before they grew to hate the forest as heartily 
as they had hated the tunnels of the goblins and it seemed to 
offer even less hope of any ending.
To outsiders, Mirkwood is simply the forest. It seems to 
be an unending wilderness of dark trees with no paths or 
tracks to follow. If you go beyond the forest eaves and lose 
sight of the warm light of the sun, you may be swallowed 
up and lost forever in the gloom. Those who dwell in 
the forest, though, divide Mirkwood into several distinct 
regions.
Elements of Darkness
From the stunted pines of the far north to the willows 
and beeches of the south, Mirkwood encompasses many 
different landscapes, but they are all uniformly ghastly 
and unwelcoming. The Loremaster may find it useful to 
employ the following traits when describing locations 
inside Mirkwood (the descriptors suit almost every region 
of the dark forest, to a greater or lesser extent).
No Light
There are few gaps in the forest canopy overhead. Branches 
cling together, and the dark leaves and hanging shrouds 
of lichen block out the sun. Even at the height of the day, 
there is little light in the forest. The trees turn the bright 
sunlight into a darkened green glimmer.
Your eyes play tricks on you during the day, turning knots 
in the bark into leering faces or fallen logs into monsters. 
At night, the forest is as dark as the deepest cave at the 
roots of the mountains.
No Fresh Air
On the forest floor, a traveller is surrounded on all sides 
by thick foliage, by clinging spider-webs, by gnarled 
branches and black trunks. Any wind that blows into 
Mirkwood cannot penetrate the depths of the wood. 
The leaves far overhead might rustle with strange, eerie 
voices, but no fresh air reaches the upturned faces of the 
travellers below. Inhale deeply, and your lungs fill with 
the stench of rotting leaves, with choking spores and dust, 
with unwholesome warm air. Mirkwood does provide 
some shelter from extremes of weather — winters in the 
forest are warmer, summers cooler — but there is so little 
The Greatest of the Forests

--- PAGE 76 ---
Rhovanion Region Guide
76
air in the woods that a traveller might prefer to freeze in 
the open air than be smothered by leaves.
No Water
The trees’ deep roots drink hungrily. There are few streams 
or rivers in Mirkwood; parts of Southern Mirkwood are 
especially parched. Worse, most of these streams are 
foul and black, and have strange effects on those unwise 
enough to drink from them. There are safe streams or 
springs where a traveller can refill a water-skin and 
quench his thirst, but only those who know Mirkwood 
well can find them. When it rains, the water cascades 
down through the leaves, gathering a bitter taste and a 
brown-green hue as it falls.
No Food
There is food in Mirkwood — if you know where to look. 
There are fruiting trees, nuts, roots, plants and mushrooms 
to gather; fish and rabbits and squirrels and deer to 
hunt. Finding food is difficult even for an experienced 
adventurer. The Woodmen know better than to eat any 
black-furred animals within the forest, as their meat tastes 
foul, and they have learned which plants may be safely 
eaten and which are poisonous. 
The difficulty of finding food in the forest varies as the 
Shadow grows. During the Watchful Peace, when the 
Necromancer withdrew from the woods, it is said that 
huge herds of deer roamed the territory between the Old 
Forest Road and the Elf-path, and many hope that this 
bounty will return now that Dol Guldur is empty again. 
When the Shadow grows, even plants that were previously 
edible may become poisonous or extinct.
No Paths
There are only two major paths that cross all of Mirkwood, 
and the only paths in the rest of the forest are short, local 
tracks near the Woodmen settlements or the Elvenking’s 
Halls, or the Orc-paths around Dol Guldur. A traveller who 
leaves the path has few or no chances of finding another. 
You could roam the middle part of the forest for months 
and find no trace of another living soul.
No Life
Mirkwood is crowded with all manner of creatures. A 
traveller will certainly hear these creatures — the howling 
of wolves, the scratching of squirrels in the treetops, the 
mocking croaks of ravens and the squeak of bats — but 
he may not see any sign of life for days. The animals

--- PAGE 77 ---
77
blend into the forest gloom, becoming almost part of the 
darkness. Mirkwood is a primordial forest, unfriendly to 
anything that walks on two legs.
No Hope
Mirkwood is a green-black sea of trees, and a man may 
drown in the forest’s endless undergrowth as surely as he 
is dragged under by the waves. If you leave the path in 
Mirkwood, and lack the woodcraft to find your way home, 
you will perish there. The forest does not forgive fools.
Travelling in Mirkwood
Travelling across Mirkwood is across either Severe 
or Daunting terrain, with the exception of its Western 
Eaves where the Woodmen dwell and the terrain is 
only Hard. Those with the Region-lore (Mirkwood) 
speciality may invoke it to roll 1d10+2 on their 
Embarkation Roll.
Furthermore, while general travel in the forest may be 
difficult, those who dwell in the forest may know local 
routes and secret paths that are easier to follow — an 
Elf or Woodman returning home from a short hunting 
trip does not need to use the journey rules. Instead 
reserve the rules for important and perilous missions 
away from home.
The Evil of the Forest
The endless darkness, the myriad trees, and the 
overwhelming gloom of the woods wears away at a 
traveller’s good spirits. The evil of the forest saps the soul. In 
game terms, this is represented by the growing Corruption 
forced on travellers as they make their way through 
Mirkwood. If a character suffers a Bout of Madness (see 
page 183 of the Adventures in Middle-earth Player’s Guide) 
while in Mirkwood, the following effects are particularly 
appropriate.
Running in Panic
The character is seized by confusion or terror, and runs into 
the woods. If several characters succumb simultaneously, 
the whole Company can be scattered and lost. A single 
character who runs in panic might blunder into danger.
Quarrelling
The character nurses real or imagined grudges against 
the rest of the Company. This is not as violent a reaction 
as rage, but it does last longer. The character becomes 
snappish and withdrawn, and cannot gain Inspiration 
until they have had a rest in a sanctuary.
Hallucinations
The character believes he can hear voices in the treetops, 
or sees faces leering out of the leaves. The Loremaster 
should describe the character’s surroundings in a way 
that plays into the character’s fears — if the character is 
The Greatest of the Forests

--- PAGE 78 ---
Rhovanion Region Guide
78
hunting the Werewolf of Mirkwood, then the character 
might hallucinate howls on the night wind, the smell of 
rotting meat and stinking breath, and think that every 
creaking branch and rustling leaf heralds the beast’s 
approach.
Sloth
The character decides that the unreality of dreams is 
preferable to the weariness or horror of the waking world. 
Why traipse through the forest until you drop dead of 
starvation, when you can just close your eyes and dream 
of a feast and slip peacefully into the sleep of death? 
A character in a bout of sloth refuses to move or to do 
anything, and must be carried or forced to move.
Mad With Hunger and Thirst
The character is wracked by thirst and hunger pangs. He 
will do anything to get food and drink. If the Company 
are rationing supplies, the character schemes to take more 
than his fair share. If the character has a chance to get 
extra food (say, by chasing a fleet-footed stag into the 
woods, or stealing food from another traveller), he will 
take it.
Northern Mirkwood
Northern Mirkwood begins in the foothills of the Grey 
Mountains. Twisted pines grow from the flanks of stony 
hills. The first trees are small, stunted and thinly spread, 
but from the heights a traveller can view the great forest 
stretching out as far as the eye can see. The Forest River 
plunges down from the mountains in a cascade of roaring 
waterfalls before vanishing into the woods. Its course is 
flanked by birch, alder and poplar trees.
The centre of Northern Mirkwood is a long low spur of 
hills, falling away on the west to the Vales of Anduin and 
dropping sharply in the east to the Forest River valley. 
The hills are chalky and perilous, with many unexpected 
Northern
Mirkwood
E
E
E
E
E
The Forest Gate
The Roaring Falls
The Enchanted Stream
The Elf-path
The Spider’s Ring

--- PAGE 79 ---
79
ravines and cliffs. Caves in the upper hills are home to 
bears and wolves. The hills are covered by firs and pines, 
and none of the hills are clear of trees. 
To the west, the hills roll gently down to the forest eaves. The 
western portion of Northern Mirkwood is furthest from the 
baleful influence of Dol Guldur, and a traveller can taste 
the difference in the air. The trees are not so closely packed 
here, nor the gloom so deep. This is a lonely land, where 
neither Man nor Elf nor Orc ever goes. The hunting is good 
here, although the presence of great black bears and wolves 
may turn the hunter into the quarry. The deer herds of the 
deep forest are most often encountered in this land.
The north-western eaves show signs of ancient forestry and 
wood-cutting. These trees were used to fortify the villages 
of the Éothéod, a nation of Northmen founded centuries 
ago by refugees escaping the ravages of the war to the east 
(see The Horse-people, page 8). They lived mainly where 
the rivers Langwell and Greylin meet, to flow into what 
becomes the Great River Anduin, but built also along the 
western edge of Northern Mirkwood. Herders of mighty 
horses, they left the area more than four hundred years 
ago, when they were led south by a legendary leader, Eorl 
the Young.
North-east of the central rise, the land falls steeply into 
the lush Forest River valley. The soft stone gives way to 
bogland and marshy soil, and the Forest River meanders 
through fens. In the summer and autumn, thick fogs rise 
from the marsh making the river almost impassable. 
Winter brings a cruel frost to the exposed valley, and spring 
heralds flash floods and wild water. The upper reaches of 
the Forest River valley are extremely treacherous. Sucking 
mud pools big enough to swallow a horse and nests of 
vipers under crumbling cliffs await unwary travellers.
The southern portion of the region, including the tongue 
south of the Forest River that reaches all the way to the 
Long Marshes, is dark and foreboding. This is a land of 
oak and hornbeam, of pine and fir, of thorn and yew. 
The forest thickens the further south and east you go, 
becoming a tangled and impassable maze in places. 
This is the true Mirkwood, where the ground is smothered 
in the leaf-mould of centuries and the sky is shrouded by 
a green-black canopy. Small thorn-bushes and choking 
poison ivy slither around and between the tree-trunks, 
looking for the slightest sliver of sunlight from above.
Combat Scenery: cliffs, fogs, hedges of tree limbs, 
ravines, roaring waters, roots, rotten trees, slopes, sucking 
bogs, webs
Wildlife
In the north-west, the wildlife is that common to any 
wood: wolves, bears, deer, rabbits, foxes and the like. The 
hilly region in the middle is home to smaller creatures 
mostly, although the bears and wolves may winter here 
in the caves. The Forest River valley is home to all these 
creatures, especially the great black bears, but also 
snakes and a panoply of insects and crawling things. 
The southeastern part of the region has fewer bears and 
wolves, but many more Spiders.
Inhabitants
Most of this region is uninhabited. The forest long since 
swallowed the ruins of the old halls and villages that once 
stood here, but the remains can be found if you know 
where to look. If any of their descendants still live, they 
may have taken refuge in the deepest parts of Northern 
Mirkwood. Certainly, elven scouts have found signs of 
habitation in the hills; perhaps the wild descendants 
of the vanished Northmen, or refugees from Southern 
Mirkwood, or madmen or hermits who fear the growing 
Shadow in the forest.
A few foresters living along the western fringe. These are a 
cruel, hardy folk who do not share the same customs as the 
Woodmen of Wilderland. They are said to be descended 
from outlaws, and dislike trespassers. From time to time 
they even dare to attack travellers entering the Elf-path. 
The Beornings have a blood feud with these foresters, and 
claim that they trade with Orcs in the hills.
Notable Characters
The Forest Dragon
This nameless dragon crawled out of the North three 
hundred years ago, and dwells in a cave in the heart of 
Northern Mirkwood. Some say her hoard was stolen from 
the Dwarves, others claim she plundered a Northman 
town that is now lost under the leaves. The dragon is a 
long-worm, of the line of Scatha.
The Greatest of the Forests

--- PAGE 80 ---
Rhovanion Region Guide
80
The entrance to her lair is hidden behind a curtain of 
moss, and is hard to find unless she recently hunted, in 
which case the scars left by the dragon’s passage are plain 
to see. Thus far, no hero has dared go out to slay the Forest 
Dragon, and she has not troubled the Woodland Realm 
directly. Thranduil hopes that she has fallen into the long 
slumber of her kind, and that she will not awake again 
until the ending of the world.
The Forest Dragon awakens in The Mirkwood Campaign 
and further information can be found in that guide.
Notable Places
The Forest Gate
The path of the Silvan Elves through Mirkwood begins 
here, at this great arch of trees. The Wise can sense the 
power of the Elvenking in this place, for it is his magic that 
keeps the path clear of cobwebs and other dangers. After 
the Battle of Five Armies, the Elves placed a watch on the 
gate. A traveller may not see the elven sentries, hidden 
aloft in the trees, but they are there, vigilant and armed 
with deadly arrows.
The Forest Gate is a good place to meet travellers and 
merchants as they prepare for the journey into the woods. 
It is also where the Elves of Mirkwood treat with the 
Beornings; the two folk have little good to say about each 
other, but they are both enemies of the one Enemy.
The Roaring Falls
The Forest River passes through seven waterfalls before it 
reaches the Long Lake. The Roaring Falls are found on the 
edge of the Woodland Realm, where the river pours over 
a steep cliff and plunges into a ravine. The sound of the 
crashing water sounds like the roaring of a tremendous 
beast.
In ages past, the Elves built a tower atop the cliff, but this 
tower is empty and partially ruined now. Still, the Roaring 
Falls are often used as a waystation by Elven border 
guards and scouts on their way west or north. 
The Lady Irimë, a noble of Thranduil’s court, once 
prophesied that a great hero and a terrible monster would 
one day meet their deaths at the Roaring Falls, tumbling 
into the churning white spray still locked in mortal combat.
The Enchanted Stream
Today, the Enchanted Stream flows out of the Mountains 
of Mirkwood and crosses the Elf-path through the forest, 
but that was not always its course. Once, long ago, it 
flowed south instead and joined with the Dusky River in 
the Western Eaves. 
Further, it is said that Goblins fleeing the Battle of Five 
Armies retreated into Mirkwood, only to find the Enchanted 
Stream flowing along the border of the Northern Dale-
lands.

--- PAGE 81 ---
81
The Perils of the Stream
Those who fall into or drink from the Enchanted Stream 
risk falling under the water’s enchantment. A hero must 
make a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw, with the following 
effects:
 
• 
A hero that fails the saving throw with a result of 
a ‘1’ on the d20 becomes Unconscious. They have 
fallen into an enchanted slumber and cannot be 
awoken by normal means. Only the Elvenking (or 
powerful magic, such as a Word of Command or a 
suitable spell from a Wizard) can end the effect.
• 
A hero that fails their saving throw with any other 
result becomes Unconscious and remains so for 1d4+2 
days. Once awake, they can’t remember anything 
since the last Fellowship phase. Despite being asleep, 
they receive no benefits for resting and actually gain 
one level of Exhaustion.
• 
A hero that makes their saving throw with a natural 
20 throws off the enchantment but not without some 
effort. They gain one level of Exhaustion.
• 
A hero that succeeds at their saving throw with any 
other result falls Unconscious for a single day. Upon 
awaking, they have trouble remembering the last 
few days. They gain no benefit from their magical 
rest and increase their Exhaustion by one level.
The Stream springs from the spells of the Elvenking, and is 
(mostly) under his control. Should he choose, he can make 
the Stream flow to any place in his domain, or command 
it to shrink to a trickle or swell to a raging torrent. Many 
Orcs who dared cross into the Woodland Realm returned 
witless and blind and dripping wet.
The Enchanted Stream is wilful and petulant, and does 
not always obey its master’s commands. It mostly flows 
in its proper channels, but sometimes it goes wandering, 
leaving behind a dry river bed. The Stream cannot leave 
the borders of Mirkwood, nor can it cross the Old Forest 
Road.
The Spider’s Ring
The Spider’s Ring was once a feast-hall of the Elves, but 
now only Spiders dwell here, and it is their closest colony 
to the Woodland Realm. Bilbo and the Dwarves had the 
misfortune to blunder into this trap when they got lost in 
Mirkwood. The whole clearing is covered in thick black 
webs, darker and denser than any on the Elf-path.
The Spiders strung long ropes between the tallest trees, 
creating a network of rope bridges high in the air over the 
clearing. When they catch a victim, they drag him back here 
and string him up to rot for a few weeks before they suck 
him dry. The corpses of deer and sheep and badgers hang 
from the heights, along with a few unlucky Orcs or Elves.
The mucky floor of the Spider’s Ring may contain some 
treasures dropped from previous victims — Spiders have 
no use for gold or weapons, and consider them to be nasty 
The Greatest of the Forests

--- PAGE 82 ---
Rhovanion Region Guide
82
hard things that might break a fang if bitten too hard. 
The floor is also alive with uncounted millions of young 
spiders, no bigger than a thumbnail, who feed on the 
drippings of the prey.
The Woodland Realm
The Elvenking’s realm claims all the forest from the north-
eastern edge of Mirkwood to the Forest River. The northern 
part of his realm is a land of silent wooded hills and quiet 
valleys, where no man goes. Even the Elves rarely travel to 
this empty land save when they seek solitude or to listen to 
the night-speech of the trees. Traditionally, this land is the 
hunting forest of the Elvenking, but the horns of the wild 
hunt have not echoed here in hundreds of years. The King 
hunts closer to his hall — but still, any mortal who shoots 
a deer in these lands is considered a poacher by the Elves.
Travel south, and the land dips into a vast bowl called 
the Bower. Here, in twilight clearings under the stars, 
the Wood-elves dance and sing songs of the Elder Days. 
The trees of this land are oak and beech and rowan, all 
beloved of the Elves. The Bower is well guarded by the 
Elves, and no trespasser has passed its borders in an age. 
Few mortals have ever visited the glades of the Bower, or 
feasted by the light of stunningly wrought elven-lamps.
 
The eastern border along the Dalelands is a land of elms 
and whitebeam trees, though there are also orchards and 
stands of yew-wood for bows. During the Watchful Peace, 
the Elves fortified this land.
The Wood-elves rarely raise towers or walls, so their 
fortifications are in the tree-tops and in caves under the 
earth — hidden in the thick black canopy of the forest are 
wooden platforms suspended between the trees, stacked 
with arrows, supply caches of elven-armour and weapons, 
and cleverly concealed sentry posts. Here, too, are eyries 
and nests, for the Wood-elves have a great friendship with 
birds, and use them as messengers and spies.
The Woodland
Realm
E
E
E
E
E
The Hall of the Elvenking
The Sentinel Oak
The East Gate
The Great Clearing
The Lampmaker’s House

--- PAGE 83 ---
83
South of the Bower, the Forest River runs black and swift 
through the woods. Fed by waters from the Mountains 
of Mirkwood and the Forest Hills, the Forest River swells 
as it runs through the Woodland Realm. Its banks are 
lined with osiers and willows, and long branches trail in 
the water. The Wood-elves can navigate these hazardous 
waters in their small boats, dodging hidden rocks and 
choking weeds to row upriver. Of late, the Spiders have 
managed to cross the river, and now spin webs across the 
flow to catch unwary Elves.
In the south-east of the Woodland Realm, the land rises 
again into dark hills. It is here that the Elvenking’s Hall 
is found, in a series of caves cut by the river in days of 
yore. The main branch of the Forest River winds through 
a steep-sided valley, but there are other smaller channels 
and tributaries in the hills that make travel difficult. The 
eastern edge of the hills descends into the Long Marshes. 
The trees of Mirkwood continue for many miles — mostly 
alders in this wet ground — but the edge of the Woodland 
Realm is marked by a great lonely oak on the last hill.
Combat Scenery: fallen trees, hedges of trees, low boughs, 
pits, shallow slopes, thick-trunked trees, thickets, webs
Wildlife
The Woodland Realm is home to a similar range of animals 
as the rest of Northern Mirkwood. Wolves and bears dwell 
in the wild north, along with deer and squirrels. Deer are 
especially numerous in the Bower, which is also home to 
a great many birds. Beavers and water-fowl live along 
the Forest River. Goats, sheep, small ponies and foxes are 
common on the eastern borders, especially in the hills. At 
night, swarms of bats from the Mountains of Mirkwood 
trouble the southern part of the Woodland Realm.
The land is no longer free of Spiders. For many years, they 
dared not cross the Elf-path, but the Spiders established 
a large colony somewhere in the middle of Northern 
Mirkwood, and are now encroaching on the Realm. They 
crossed the River, although they are deathly afraid of water, 
by weaving shimmering spiderweb bridges and throwing 
them across the river narrows. The Elves work to keep the 
horrid creatures from overrunning the Bower; there are 
great pits where they burn the bodies of slain Spiders.
Inhabitants
Virtually all the Elves of Mirkwood make their home 
here in the Woodland Realm. The rustic Wood-elves live 
in platforms in the branches, or else in small houses or 
even tents on the forest floor. Most live within three days’ 
travel of the Elvenking’s Halls, but they are a wandering 
people, passing at times into the north and west of the 
realm as whimsy takes them.The Wood-elves are, in the 
Third Age of Middle-earth, the most numerous branch 
of elven-kind. Unlike the Elves dwelling in Rivendell or 
even their cousins of Lórien, the Wood-elves delight in 
simpler things, preferring merrymaking and song to the 
The Greatest of the Forests

--- PAGE 84 ---
Rhovanion Region Guide
84
study of lore. Before the Shadow came to Mirkwood, the 
Wood-elves lived in sylvan bliss, feasting and hunting and 
singing and dancing as their hearts willed. Now, they must 
weigh feasting against vigilance, and hunt Orcs instead of 
stags. The Elvenking cannot afford to indulge his subjects’ 
pleasures, and must draw them away from their twilight 
merry-making to prepare for war.
While most of Thranduil’s subjects heed their king’s 
commands, some Elves are loath to leave their play. They 
delight in trickery, in bewitching or befuddling enemies 
and strangers alike, and in petty-magics and illusions. 
Indeed, they even leave the wood to play tricks on the 
cottars and farmers of the Dalelands. See the section on 
the Wayward Elves, on page 86.
Notable Characters
King Thranduil
Thranduil rules over a people under threat. His subjects 
may dance and feast in the forest, forgetting the Shadow 
that hangs over them, but Thranduil cannot allow himself 
to forget. He knows first-hand the suffering and sorrow 
inflicted by the Enemy, as he went to war with Gil-galad 
and his father, and saw many Elves and Men die in 
battle. Together with the secret havens of Rivendell and 
Lórien and the western realm of Lindon, his is one of the 
last Elvish kingdoms left in Middle-earth. He is a stern, 
imperious king, unforgiving to his enemies, but kind and 
wise and fatherly to his people. He is a brave general, and 
strong. The Woodland Realm would be terribly weakened 
should he be wounded or slain, for it is the Elvenking’s 
magic that keeps its paths clear and the Shadow at bay.
Thranduil can be met at his halls in Mirkwood, or feasting 
or hunting in the woods. Greet him with courtesy and give 
him all the respect due a king, and he will treat a visitor 
fairly. If a visitor breaks his law (even unwittingly), scorns 
his court or challenges his authority, then, well, Thranduil 
has many cells in his dungeons. The Woodland Realm is 
his kingdom and he is the master there. Any visitor, even 
an Elf-lord of the West, must acknowledge Thranduil’s 
lordly status within Mirkwood.
Thranduil listens to petitions at court or at feasts, but such 
requests must go through proper channels. One does not 
just walk up and bend the Elvenking’s ear about some petty 
request — you have to make an appointment, and offer a 
suitable gift, and follow all the correct forms of address. He 
has a grudge against Dwarves, and considers most Men to 
be greedy, grasping trespassers. He respects only those who 
have proven themselves brave enemies of the Shadow.
Thranduil’s primary goal is always to protect his people 
and his kingdom. He fears being lured into a trap by agents 
of the Shadow, so he is cautious and slow to act at times, 
but when his path is clear he decides with great swiftness.
Motivation: For uncounted years, I have kept my realm 
safe. I will not let it fall.
Expectations: +1 if the Company has more than one 
Elf of Mirkwood — the Elvenking prefers to trust his own 
people; +2 if the heroes bring a jewel or other precious 
gift to honour him; -2 if the heroes imply that his kingdom 
is lesser than those of the Elder Days, or otherwise insult 
their host.

--- PAGE 85 ---
85
Thranduil’s Ring
At times, Thranduil wears a ring of silver set with a glittering white gemstone upon his finger. Any who look upon this 
ring can tell that it is magical. The ring was forged by Celebrimbor of Hollin during the Second Age of the World.
Sauron knows that Thranduil has a magic ring, perhaps even a Ring of Power. The Enemy knows that three rings 
were forged for the Elven-Kings. One ring he guesses Gil-galad bore to war, and that ring is most likely hidden with 
Elrond Half-elven. Another ring might be in Lórien, with Galadriel and Celeborn. The third ring, though... where is 
that hiding? His spies tell him that Cirdan the Shipwright has no ring of power. Could the third ring be close at hand 
in Mirkwood? In truth, Thranduil’s rings is but one of the lesser rings. Many such magic rings were made in Eregion 
before the forging of the rings of power. Compared to the Three or the One, it is a petty thing — but it occupies 
Sauron’s mind, and makes him wary of the Woodland Realm, and that is a magic beyond price.
The Crown of the Elvenking
Although Thranduil delights in silver and white gems above all other treasures, and despite the fact that his treasury 
overflows with beautiful things, the Elvenking wears a simple crown of leaves. This crown symbolises his bond with 
the Wood-elves. A new crown is made at the turning of each season. in spring, he wears oak-leaves and laurels, in 
summer flowers. In the autumn, he wears berries and red leaves, and in winter a crown of frosted thorns and ivy.
Thranduil, King of 
the Woodland Realm
Medium Elf
STR 
15 (+2)
DEX 
20 (+5)
CON 
16 (+3)
INT 
19 (+4)
WIS 
17 (+3)
CHA 
15 (+2)
Armour Class 18 (Elven-mail, see below)
Hit Points 112 (15d8+45)
Speed 30 ft
Saving Throws Dexterity +9, Wisdom +7
Skills History +8, Lore +8, Perception +7
Senses passive Perception 17
Languages Sindarin, Silvan, Westron
Challenge 9 (5,000 XP)
Elven-mail. The Elf-king’s corslet was made in another 
age of the world and is so supple that he adds his full 
Dexterity modifier to his AC. Furthermore, he adds +2 to 
his AC for any attacks from a servant of the Enemy.
Legendary. Thranduil may take two legendary actions 
each turn. Each legendary action allows him to either use 
his Parry ability without using his reaction, attack with his 
Bitter Spear or attack with his Woodland Bow.
Stargazer. Thranduil’s ancient wisdom and insight aids 
him when dealing with impatient mortals. Wisdom 
(Insight) checks to discern the Elvenking’s thoughts have 
Disadvantage.
Actions
Multiattack: Thranduil can make three attacks with 
either his Bitter Spear or Woodland Bow.
Bitter Spear: Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 6 (1d8+2) piercing damage. On a critical 
hit, the Elf-Lord deals an additional 7 (2d6) damage.
Woodland Bow: Ranged Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, 
range 80/320, one target. Hit: 9 (1d6+6) piercing damage.
Reactions
Commanding Voice. The Elf-king can inspire his allies 
with his noble bearing and wisdom. Thranduil can use 
his reaction to utter a command or shout a warning 
whenever a non-hostile creature, that he can see within 30 
feet, is about to make an attack roll or a saving throw. The 
target adds a d6 Command Die to its next roll, provided 
it can hear and understand the message. A creature 
can benefit from only one Command Die at a time, and 
creatures that possess Commanding Voice cannot benefit 
from this effect.
Parry. Thranduil adds +4 to his AC against one melee 
attack that would hit him. To do so, he must see the 
attacker and be wielding a melee weapon.
The Greatest of the Forests

--- PAGE 86 ---
Rhovanion Region Guide
86
Thranduil as a Patron
The Elvenking is an excellent patron for those heroes 
involved in The Mirkwood Campaign. Thranduil 
favours those who are brave and clever; he wants 
trustworthy agents who can fight the Enemy’s plans 
without drawing evil down on the Woodland Realm. 
He has little interest in affairs outside his wood, 
unless convinced that they might endanger his realm 
in the future. He has guided and protected the Elves of 
Mirkwood for many hundreds of years, and he has seen 
other kingdoms fall — he will do anything to ensure 
that the Woodland Realm does not meet the same fate. 
Thranduil will only be a patron for companies that 
include at least one Elf, and is unlikely to favour any 
company that counts a Dwarf among its number.
Halbrech the Wineseller
Merry Halbrech hails from distant Dorwinion, though 
he lives in Lake-town. He is one of the merchants who 
provide wine for the Elvenking’s table. Halbrech’s father 
Harod was a particular favourite of Thranduil, for he 
had an excellent palate and could find the very best wine 
in each season. The House of Harod has long been under 
the patronage of the Woodland Realm. Halbrech’s ruddy 
round face and feigned happiness hide a terrible secret. 
Many years ago, a servant of the Enemy seduced him into 
telling her the secrets of the Woodland Realm. Halbrech 
knew a great deal about the defences of Thranduil’s 
Halls, and could guess at how many warriors served the 
Elvenking.
When the White Council drove the Necromancer from 
Dol Guldur, Halbrech dared to hope that his ordeal was 
over, and that the Enemy’s spies would never contact him 
again. He made arrangements to destroy any evidence of 
his treason. Halbrech plays a key role in The Mirkwood 
Campaign, so Loremasters wishing to make use of those 
adventures should aid Halbrech in hiding his treachery 
until the hour is right.
Motivations & Expectations: Outwardly, Halbrech 
expresses the traits of a Merchant, like those found on 
page 69 of the Loremaster’s Guide.
The Wayward Elves
Description, Names and Starting Attitudes
The Wayward Elves are similar in appearance and dress to 
other Elves of Mirkwood and can be mostly distinguished 
by their attitude — they devote themselves to the pursuit 
of pleasure and amusement. They play cruel tricks on 
travellers in the forest, and sometimes even leave the 
woods to harass the Bardings or folk of Lake-town. As 
of yet their jokes have been harmless fun, but the wilder 
the Elves grow, the less care they have for the safety of 
mortals.
They see themselves as dedicated as any warrior to the 
fight against the Shadow, but do not believe weapons of 
war to be the strongest tools in their arsenal. They revel 
in their immortality and eternal beauty, hoping it can be 
a symbol of the grace and perfection that once existed in 
the world.
Male Names: Amras, Aredhel, Beleganor, Belegon, 
Calanhir, Carmagor, Dagorhir, Durandir, Edrahil, Ellahir, 
Fincalan, Fuindor, Galdagor, Galdor, Hallas, Hirimlad, 
Ithildir, Lascalan, Linaith, Mablin, Malanor, Nauros, 
Orgalad, Pelegorn, Sargon.
Female Names: Anwen, Arbereth, Berúthiel, Baraniel, 
Calanril, Celenneth, Elnîth, Eraniel, Finduilas, Gilraen, 
Gilraeth, Gloredhel, Idril, Ioreth, Ivorwen, Lôrwend, 
Lothíriel, Luindîs, Meneloth, Moriel, Morwen, Narieth, 
Narniel, Orothêl, Tarandîs
Standard of Living
Like other Elves of Mirkwood, the Wayward Elves are 
Martial and start with the same bonus equipment. 
Wayward Elf Traits
Your hero has the same traits as other Elves of Mirkwood, 
see page 43 of the Player’s Guide.
Cultural Virtues
A Wayward Elf may select from the following virtues: The 
Call of Mirkwood, Deadly Archery, Elvish Dreams, The 
Speakers and Wood-elf Magic. The Call of Mirkwood is 
provided below, the others may be found on page 107 of 
the Player’s Guide.

--- PAGE 87 ---
87
Cultural Heirlooms
In addition to the heirlooms on page 159 of the Player’s 
Guide, a Wayward Elf may also acquire Wine of the Dark 
Mountains (see below).
Wayward Elves Cultural Virtue: 
The Call of Mirkwood
They differed from the High Elves of the West, and 
were more dangerous and less wise.
You think your fate and that of your people should 
be that of enjoying life to the fullest, as long as 
Mirkwood and the world endure. You accept the price 
of this choice: you will dwindle and fade until you 
become a living memory, a fairy who lingers yet in 
the shadows of the trees. For the moment though, your 
fading just makes it harder for others to heed your 
footsteps, or to see you when you choose not to be seen.
You have Advantage on any Dexterity (Stealth) 
checks, no matter your environment. If you succeed 
at your Stealth check, you may spend Inspiration. If 
you do so, as long as you remain motionless, you are 
Invisible. However, your fading does not go unnoticed 
by other Elves. They will look Askance at you in any 
social interactions. 
Wayward Elves Cultural Heirloom: 
Wine of the Dark Mountains
The Wayward Elves of Mirkwood favour a particular 
vintage of wine, a dark, filling beverage they distil 
from a secret vineyard on the lower slopes of the 
Mountains of Mirkwood. Drinking this potent wine 
induces a cold, heartless fury, a sentiment that a 
reckless warrior exploits to endure the stress of a fight.
When you drink from the Wine of the Dark Mountains 
before a battle, you gain temporary Hit Points equal 
to twice the total of your Proficiency Bonus and your 
Constitution modifier. You must take a long rest 
before you can benefit from the Wine again.
Notable Places
The Gates of the Elvenking
The main portion of the Elf-path ends where it crosses the 
Forest River. A long avenue of trees marks the approach to 
the river, and an elegant Dwarf-wrought bridge of stone 
arches over the fast-flowing waters. Across the bridge is 
a grassy slope lined with beeches, and the entrance to 
the underground halls. For more on Thranduil’s Halls, 
see page 89. The Elf-path continues across the bridge, 
climbing up to the west of the bridge and ascending by 
a steep staircase to the top of the hill. From there, the 
path winds through narrow valleys overhung with oak, 
crabapple and boxwood until it passes the Sentinel Oak. 
To the right of the bridge, the Forest River crashes down 
another short waterfall to enter a small canyon. A smaller 
stream flows out of a cave at the far end of the canyon to 
join the river; this stream is used by the Elves to bring their 
boats, rafts and barrels onto the water.
Opening Thranduil’s Halls as a 
Sanctuary
Companions who have entered the palace of King 
Thranduil for the first time during an Adventuring 
phase may spend a Fellowship phase as guests of the 
Silvan Elves. if they wish to return, all companions 
must choose the Open Sanctuary undertaking (see 
page 201 of the Player’s Guide). But not everyone 
is welcome here: all Dwarves and any heroes with 
3 Shadow points or higher will be questioned by the 
Elvenking’s guards every time they want to enter the 
halls and must pass a DC 10 Intelligence (Riddle) 
check: a failure results in the companion being turned 
away at the doors.
The Sentinel Oak
This ancient oak was planted by Thranduil’s father to 
mark the eastern border of his domain. A matching tree 
once stood near the Naked Hill in the far south of the 
forest. The Sentinel Oak has seen many ages of the world 
come and go, and is considered wise among its kind. It 
is one of the livelier trees in Mirkwood, eager to speak to 
those who know the tongue of trees.
The Greatest of the Forests

--- PAGE 88 ---
Rhovanion Region Guide
88
New Fellowship Phase Undertaking: 
Visit the Sentinel Oak
The Sentinel Oak is prince of the eastern half of 
Mirkwood. in summer and autumn, it wears a crown 
of golden leaves; in winter and spring, a mantle of 
frost that glitters like diamonds cloaks the tree. The 
other trees of the forest obey and honour the Sentinel 
Oak, even most of those under the Shadow.
A character spending a Fellowship phase as a guest 
of the Elvenking may visit the Sentinel Oak and 
receive its blessing: during the next Adventuring phase 
the Peril rating of any journey within Mirkwood is 
reduced by 1, to a minimum of 0.
The Great Clearing
In the heart of the Bower, there lies a great clearing. This 
open greensward is more than a mile across; a cold pure 
spring wells up near one edge and a stream flows through 
the clearing. White beeches stand like lamp-posts in a 
ring around the centre. This is the feast-hall and council 
chamber of the Elves of Mirkwood, where they can all 
gather beneath the stars. Many Elves make their home in 
the woods near the clearing.
New Fellowship Phase Undertaking: 
Feast in the Great Clearing
When companions spend a Fellowship phase at 
Thranduil’s Halls, they may go and feast in the Great 
Clearing, and make merry with the immortal Elves.
During the following Adventuring phase, the hero 
can remember that time of joy even in the darkest 
moments. Whenever they gain a point of Shadow, they 
also gain Inspiration.
The East Gate
The Elf-path ends much as it began, with an arch of 
crossed oak-trees. It leads out to the north end of the Long 
Marshes. From there, a traveller can simply keep the bogs 
at his right hand and keep walking until he spies the swans 
rising from the Long Lake.
In recent years, as the various Free Peoples of the North 
draw closer together, more and more merchants and 
pedlars pass through the East Gate, and such trade 
attracts brigands and thieves.
The Lampmaker’s House
The Elf Ormal dwells in this white-walled house three 
days’ north of Thranduil’s Halls. He knows all the secrets 
of lamp-making, and remembers lore from the Elder Days 
that has been forgotten or lost by other Elves. No Wood-
elves are as devoted to the art of crafting as he is. In ages 
past, he studied with Celebrimbor of Hollin, who forged 
the Rings of Power. Ormal’s lamps light the halls of the 
Elvenking.
Ormal has the talent to re-forge broken items of power. 
Should the adventurers be lucky enough to recover some 
weapon or other relic of the Elder Days, Ormal may be 
able to help them repair it and master its powers.

--- PAGE 89 ---
89
New Fellowship Phase Undertaking: 
Study with the Lampmaker 
(Elves Only)
When companions are spending a Fellowship phase at 
Thranduil’s Halls, they may go and study under Ormal’s 
tutelage. An Elf who knows all the spells associated with 
the Wood-Elf Magic virtue may choose this undertaking 
to learn one of the secrets known by Ormal.
• 
Blazing Elf-lights: You may now cause your 
Elf-lights to blaze with a magical flare of great 
intensity. The effect lasts a number of rounds equal 
to half your Proficiency Bonus (rounded up). While it 
is in effect, enemies may not use Denizen of the Dark 
and any enemy with Hate Sunlight suffers damage.
• 
Lamp of the Far Traveller: You learn the art of 
making crystal lamps that hold your magical light. 
You may start an Adventuring phase lighting such a 
lamp with your magic at no cost. This lamp works like 
a continuous Elf-lights spell, but its glow can be shut 
out if needed. you can snuff the lamp out to dazzle 
foes, or to put someone into an Enchanted Sleep, as 
per the normal Wood-elf Magic rules. The lamp then 
can be lit up again without spending Inspiration.
• 
The Light of the Stars: Ormal teaches you how to 
bestow the blessing of Elbereth upon your magic. By 
spending Inspiration, you may cause the light in your 
Lamp to burn with the pure light of the stars. The 
flare lasts for a number of rounds equal to half your 
Proficiency Bonus (rounded up) and while it burns any 
servant of the Shadow must make a DC 15 Wisdom 
saving throw in order to attack you. Once The Light 
of the Stars goes out, you must take a short or long 
rest before relighting your Lamp.
Thranduil’s Halls
The Halls of the Elvenking began as a series of natural 
caverns, dug by the river in the distant past. When Amon 
Lanc was the capital of the Woodland Realm, the caves 
were used first for storage, then as a hunting lodge. Early 
in the Third Age, Thranduil moved his seat north, and 
declared that the caves would become his new palace. 
The Elves made the caves beautiful and bright, aided 
by Dwarven craftsmen from the north. The Dwarves 
burrowed into the hillside, opening up new caves and 
delving high-ceilinged passages. 
To outsiders, the halls can be confusing, for they follow 
the natural flow of the water. There are a great many side 
passages and smaller caves and tunnels that jut off from 
the main halls. In time of war, the entire population of the 
Woodland Realm could find safety here.
The passages are lit by magic lamps or torchlight. The air 
is clean and fresh, and the tunnels are not at all cramped 
or confining (unless you find yourself in one of the many 
cells, of course). See the map on page 90 and the following 
keyed areas:
1.	 The Magic Doors: These doors are enchanted by the 
Elvenking, and obey his commands. He can make them 
open or close with a moment’s thought, and they swing 
shut with astounding speed. Once closed, it would take 
a rampaging dragon to break them open again. 
2.	 Thranduil’s Hall: Thranduil rules from this many-
pillared hall. It is here that he receives ambassadors 
and hears pleas from his subjects, and it is here that 
his court gathers. Thranduil has many advisors and 
dignitaries at his court — princes and ambassadors, 
sages and poets, heroes and healers. Most are Elves, 
of course. Only a few mortals, mostly visitors from 
Lake-town, have ever been admitted to the halls. 
Tapestries on the walls tell the stories of the deeds of 
the Elves in Middle-earth.
3.	 Feast-halls: The upper halls are used for feasting and 
sport during the cold winter months, when the Great 
Clearing is covered with snow. Other halls are used for 
private meetings, councils and recitals of stories and 
songs. One of the Feast-halls hides a secret passage 
that leads out through an escape tunnel. 
4.	 Kitchens: The Elves of Mirkwood are excellent cooks, 
and can put a little magic into their food. Stags roast 
in roaring fireplaces, huge pots bubble and boil, and 
the enticing smell of fresh bread wafts from the stone 
ovens. The Master of the Kitchens is one of the most 
important Elves in the Halls, and her word is law in 
this domain.
The Greatest of the Forests

--- PAGE 90 ---
Rhovanion Region Guide
90
5.	 Bedchambers: Only a few Elves live in the Halls. 
Most of those who have rooms here are either knights 
or nobles of the court, or servants in the palace. There 
are a number of comfortable guest rooms on this 
level too. The bedchambers have wooden beds with 
mattresses and pillows filled with cloud-soft down. 
Many Elves need not sleep as mortals do — they can 
rest their minds in the strange paths of Elvish dreams 
while walking in the waking world, but sometimes 
they choose to rest for pleasure.
6.	 Elvenking’s 
Apartments: 
Thranduil 
lives 
in 
these rooms when he is in the palace. When he is 
off hunting, he usually leaves one of his sons as 
seneschal. The rooms are guarded night and day by 
warriors of the Woodland Realm, for this is a land 
under siege. Another secret passage winds down from 
these apartments to the cells and vaults below.
7.	 Cells: The dungeons of the Elvenking are not 
unpleasant as such places go — the Elves do not 
mistreat their prisoners, not even Dwarves. Still, 
these cells have stout doors and are hard to escape. 
There are many cells scattered throughout the halls, 
so that prisoners may be separated and questioned 
individually. The Elves rarely take prisoners — only 
trespassing mortals are brought here. Orcs and other 
things of darkness are dealt with on the spot. 
8.	 Storerooms: These rooms and the cellars below 
contain great stocks of food and drink, enough not 
only for the feasts of the Elves, but to withstand a 
siege should war come to the halls. Here too are 
weapons and armour to outfit an army, including 
Dwarf-wrought swords and spears, talismans from 
Hollin and further afield, relics of lost Gondolin and 
vanished Nargothrond.
9.	 Vaults: The treasure-vaults of the Elvenking are rich 
in silver and gold, as well as gemstones. His hoard 
is not as large as that of the other Elf-lords, for the 
Woodland Elves are not miners and crafters like

--- PAGE 91 ---
91
the folk of Eriador. Still, his wealth is fabulous by the 
standards of the north, and only the Dragon had a 
larger hoard. The vault is guarded by a magical door, 
like the ones that protect the entrance to the halls. Only 
Thranduil knows the secret words that command the 
door to open.
10.	Innermost Cell: This is where Thorin Oakenshield 
was imprisoned. It is an especially secure cell used for 
important ‘guests’.
11.	The Cellars: The Halls of Thranduil are part of a 
natural cave system. The upper cellars are worked 
stone like the rest of the halls, but if you keep exploring, 
you soon find your way into the warren of natural 
passages and caverns beneath the halls. The Goblins of 
the Mountains of Mirkwood would dearly love to find 
a way to tunnel into the cellars from below, but have 
yet to find a connecting passageway in the depths of 
the earth.
12.	Trapdoor: This trapdoor opens onto the underground 
stream that soon joins the Forest River. A complex 
apparatus of ropes and pulleys lets the Elves lift cargo 
off rafts on the river below. In fact, they could lift a 
whole boat out of the river if needed. To return empty 
barrels to Lake-town, they just drop them through 
the trapdoor and let the current carry them back to 
Esgaroth.
13.	Secret Harbour: This cave lies at the head of the 
underground stream. The Elves keep boats and rafts 
here. The current at the entrance to the cave is fierce 
and runs past jagged rocks, so only those who know 
the river well can bring boats in here.
Western Mirkwood
Western Mirkwood is a tangle of thick woodland. Many 
parts of it are impenetrable — oak and hazel and thorn 
wound together with poison ivy and brambles. Other 
parts are treacherously marshy. Streams run down off the 
Mountains of Mirkwood and vanish amid the roots of the 
trees, turning the land into cloying muck. A valley runs 
across the region from west to east, and the Old Forest 
Road follows this course. The land therefore slopes up 
as you travel east, and dips down then rises again when 
going north to south. The eastern part is especially hilly, 
and an unwary traveller can find himself lost in a maze of 
box canyons and tree-covered slopes too steep to climb.
Combat Scenery: cliffs, fallen trees, foundations, flooded 
pits, hedges of trees, old walls, poison nettles, rotten trees, 
roots, steep slopes, webs
Wildlife
In the west, there are squirrels and other small mammals, 
and even a few wolves and deer. Bears live in the higher 
ground to the east. The marshy regions are home to a 
peculiar breed of frog, whose booming croaks echo through 
the forest at night. The frogs feed on the flies, of which there 
are millions, including stinging ones and ones that suck 
blood. The woodmen even tell of insects the size of small 
dogs who buzz through the air and nest in the treetops.
Spiders infest the eastern part of the forest; their webs are 
so thick in places that they drag down the trees with their 
The White Statues
Western
Mirkwood
E
E
E
The Barrows of 
the Northmen
The Old Forest Road
The Greatest of the Forests

--- PAGE 92 ---
Rhovanion Region Guide
92
weight. The cunning Spiders have learned to use this to 
their advantage, and can topple the trees down on tougher 
foes.
Inhabitants
Western Mirkwood is virtually uninhabited. In the area 
north of the Old Forest Road, Men who give allegiance to 
Beorn cut the trees for firewood, but they never stay inside 
the forest’s edge after dark. The Woodmen township 
of Woodland Hall is located near the southern edge 
of this region, and the woods surrounding it are more 
wholesome than most inside Mirkwood. Long ago, the 
Woodmen started to clear a wedge in the forest, to make 
it easier to travel to Woodland Hall. As the Shadow in Dol 
Guldur grows, the Woodmen speak of clearing more land 
in Western Mirkwood, or even of building a new town 
close to the Old Ford.
At the time when the Old Forest Road was crowded with 
travellers, several villages and large groups of farmsteads 
appeared in this area, as the traffic along the road brought 
Men to these parts. Most of them were Northmen, but 
some few came out of the Southlands, from as far as the 
realm of Gondor. These southerners brought with them 
the art of building in stone; while these Men have long 
disappeared from Wilderland, the ruins of their works 
remain, overgrown with ivy and broken by tree-roots. 
Before the Battle of Five Armies, Orcs might also be 
encountered in Western Mirkwood along the Old Forest 
Road, but they fled after the battle at Erebor.
Notable Characters
Geirbald Kinslayer
Geirbald is a Woodman, of the House of Woodland 
Hall. In years past, he was accounted a great hunter and 
warrior among his people. On one hunt, the Werewolf of 
Mirkwood attacked their company; young Geirbald bore 
a bitter hatred of the beast, and loosed arrow after arrow 
at it, hoping to slay it. Even when his companions were 
scattered and the beast leapt away into the underbrush, 
he kept shooting until his quiver was empty. 
The next morning, scouts found the body of Geirbald’s 
younger sister lying in the bushes. One of her brother’s 
reckless arrows killed her. Stricken with guilt and horror, 
Geirbald fled Woodland Hall. Since then, he has lived in 
the forest as an outlaw. A dozen warriors joined him, and 
together the thirteen roam the deep forests, hunting Orcs 
and Wolves. Their chief camp is in Western Mirkwood, 
and they winter there. Some of Geirbald’s men are still 
welcome in Woodland Hall and Woodmen-town, but 
others are ill-favoured men, or outlaws, or madmen.
The outlaws rarely prey on travellers or commit crimes. 
They are called outlaws because they are not part of any 
of the Houses of the Woodmen, and so are outside the 
law of society. Geirbald is an Outlaw Chief, and each of 
his followers count as an Outlaw, see pages 74-75 of the 
Loremaster’s Guide.
Motivation: I have committed a crime beyond forgiveness 
and will atone in my own way.
Expectations: +1 If the heroes have fought orcs or wolves 
recently; -2 if the companions encourage Geirbald or the 
outlaws to rejoin the Woodmen.
Joining the Brotherhood of Outlaws
Companions with a taste for the dangerous life of 
outlaws may be interested in joining Geirbald’s band. 
To join the Brotherhood, the characters must find 
their camp and impress them in some way. This matter 
could be the subject of an Adventuring phase. During 
the following Fellowship phase, the heroes must select 
Open Sanctuary as their undertaking (see page 201 
of the Player’s Guide) and swear a binding oath to 
aid their outlaw brethren. In return, the Outlaws will 
assist the heroes without complaint, but will not join 
them on adventures or quests unless there is a clear 
benefit to them.
Characters who join the Outlaws may read the secret 
signs that Geirbald leaves throughout Mirkwood. If 
the heroes are journeying within Western Mirkwood 
or the Western Eaves, an Outlaw Scout may make a 
DC 15 Wisdom (Survival) check. If successful, they’ve 
located one of the hidden Outlaw camps. These camps 
allow the heroes to benefit from a long rest while on 
their journey.

--- PAGE 93 ---
93
Bofri, son of Bofur
This young Dwarf was sent by King Dáin to the Woodmen 
of Mirkwood with a royal command. Bofri’s mission is to 
examine the state of the Old Forest Road and determine if 
it could be re-opened. Bofri is brave and clever, and eager 
to see the world. He plans to live among the Woodmen 
for a few years, learning the ways of the wood before 
exploring the Road and discovering which of the old keeps 
and fortifications survive.
Motivation: While my father is famous — a Dwarf of wealth 
and importance — someday my deeds will match his.
Expectations: +1 If the heroes have found remnants 
of the Dwarf Road; -1 if they discourage Bofri from his 
ambitions.
Bofri, Son of Bofur 
Medium Dwarf
STR 
14 (+2)
DEX 
10 (+0)
CON 
14 (+2)
INT 
15 (+2)
WIS 
12 (+1)
CHA 
14 (+2)
Armour Class 14 (Ring-mail)
Hit Points 26 (4d8+8)
Speed 25 ft
Skills History +4, Perception +3, Survival +3
Senses passive Perception 13
Languages Dwarven, Westron
Challenge 1 (200 XP)
Map-maker. If Bofri journeys through lands he has 
already surveyed, any roll of 3 on the standard Journey 
Event table becomes a result of 6 instead as he steers the 
group away from trouble and toward beauty.
Student of War (1/day). Bofri can use his bonus action 
to gain Advantage on all attacks directed against a single 
target as he studies their strengths and weaknesses on the 
battlefield.
Actions
Staff. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 5 (1d6+2) bludgeoning damage.
Notable Places
The Old Forest Road
The Dwarf-road (Men-i-Naugrim in the Elvish tongue) is a 
wonder of the northern world. It runs for two hundred miles 
The Greatest of the Forests

--- PAGE 94 ---
Rhovanion Region Guide
94
across the middle of Mirkwood, and is the dividing line 
between the north and south parts of the forest. The road 
was ten feet wide, and paved with stone. The western part 
of the road used stone brought from the vales of Anduin, 
but the eastern portion was quarried in the Mountains of 
Mirkwood. The road was flanked on either side by a ditch 
for drainage and a raised stone embankment to keep the 
forest back. The Dwarves built a waystation every twenty 
miles. These were sturdy stone buildings with extensive 
cellars and stables for ponies. They also built three larger 
keeps, one at either end of the road and the third roughly 
halfway. The Westfort which once stood at the western 
end of the road is gone, as Northmen quarried it for stone 
long ago. Most of the smaller waystations are either gone 
the same way or swallowed by the forest.
The Dwarves laid mighty spells on the road to keep it 
whole and clear for travel, and there are long stretches 
where their works still hold sway. A traveller in the wood 
might stumble upon a section of the road that is still intact; 
walking upon such a stretch of the Old Forest Road feels 
like advancing along a Dwarven tunnel — the stone-paved 
floor is covered by dirt and leafmould and weeds, but no 
plants have yet broken through the tiny joints between 
the slabs; overhead and to either sides the trees grow so 
thickly together that they form a roof and walls. Such clear 
sections can provide a short cut through the woods, but 
they are often watched by unwelcoming eyes. 
For most of the roadway, though, the forest has triumphed. 
Trees colonised first the earthen ditches, and then broke 
through the paved surface. Roots dug through the stone, 
then the foundations until they found the living earth 
beneath. The only trace left of the road in many places is 
an unusual discolouration of the underbrush. The tract of 
road traversing Western Mirkwood is mostly overgrown. 
The Woodmen call it the Winter Trail, for its route is 
clearly visible in winter when the trees are bare, and shun 
it as a haunted place. Orcs crossing Mirkwood usually 
follow the road where they can, for much of the forest is as 
dangerous to their kind as it is to everyone else.
The Barrows of the Northmen
Other clans of Northmen once lived in these woods, before 
those who dwell here today. Their names and deeds have 
been forgotten, and weeds grow through the ruins of their 
halls, but the land still holds their bones. Nine rows of 
long barrows stand beneath the trees. On certain nights 
of the year, eerie lights flicker above the graves like little 
candles. The Woodmen say that if you follow these lights, 
they will lead you to buried treasure — or lure you into the 
darkest reaches of the woods, then vanish, leaving you to 
die in some lonely glade. 
Some chieftains of these forgotten Northmen came to 
serve the Enemy in life, a shame no living Man remembers 
today. But those who bent the knee before Sauron in life 
may also obey him in death, and those barrows are 
haunted by hungry Wood-wights (See page 138).
The White Statues
Deep in the western woods, a traveller may come upon a 
strange sight indeed — a white marble statue of a woman, 
standing amid the dark trees. Then, he glimpses another 
statue, and another, and another, men and women and 
children. All are so lifelike that it beggars belief. Some are 
caught in a moment of terror; others stand calmly, staring 
out at the trees. Despite the thick undergrowth around 
them, few of the statues are covered in moss or weeds.
 
No-one knows who made these statues. Perhaps the 
Dwarves carved them from marble cut from the Mountains 
of Mirkwood during idle evenings when they built the 
Forest Road. The Woodmen whisper of an evil wizard 
who cursed his enemies and turned them to stone; the 
Beornings claim that the statues sometimes move when 
no-one is looking.
 
The Mountains of Mirkwood
The Mountains of Mirkwood are also called the Dark 
Mountains, from their old name in the Elvish tongue. They 
rise dark and desolate from the forest, and are divided 
into two parts — the larger group to the north that are 
the true Mountains, and the southern Haunted Hills. A 
wooded pass divides the two, and the Old Forest Road 
runs through this gap. The trees in the pass are oak and 
beech, but tall pines dominate the upland regions. 
East, the mountains descend to rolling hills and mounds, 
all cloaked in tangled pines and mossy willows. The land 
grows progressively wetter as it approaches the southern 
marshes; weeds and vines hang heavy from the trees.

--- PAGE 95 ---
95
The peaks of the mountains are bald, and are snow-
covered except in the height of summer. They are very 
treacherous; their rocky slopes conceal many deadfalls 
and narrow ravines. Landslides are not uncommon, as 
if the trees relaxed their grip on the soil and let it roll 
downhill. The lowlands are just as hard to cross, as thick 
weeds and clinging plants fill the forest floor.
Combat Scenery: boulders, cliffs, hedges of tree limbs, 
rock edges, rubble, scattered rocks, thickets, and varied 
slopes
Wildlife
In the lowlands, especially towards the east and south, 
Spiders prey on squirrel and Orc alike. The Orcs — what 
few there are left in Mirkwood, after the Battle of Five 
Armies — stick to the Old Forest Road and the foothills of 
the mountains. Spiders lurk on the road, but also string 
their webs between the gnarled trees. Gore-crows nest in 
the treetops, croaking their hateful songs.
The mountain caves are home to bats in uncountable 
numbers. These bats leave their underground abodes at 
night by the thousands, and spread out for miles against 
the dark sky over Mirkwood, to reach the marshes and 
hunt for insects and other prey. Some of the bigger bats eat 
lizards, rabbits or even sheep — or so say the shepherds of 
Lake-town. Vampires dwell in the deeper caves and among 
the Elven ruins in the northern foothills. These horrors, 
spirits from the Elder Days who wear the appearance of 
bats, abhor sunlight, but go abroad by night to feast on 
blood.
Wolves creep around the northern slopes of the 
mountains, but shy away from the west. Somewhere 
in that desolate tree-lined maze is the black lair of the 
Werewolf of Mirkwood.
Inhabitants
No Free Peoples live in the Mountains of Mirkwood, or in 
the surrounding woods. Elven hunters and scouts might 
Ruins of the Refuge
The Mountains
of Mirkwood
E
EThe Beacon Tower
The Greatest of the Forests

--- PAGE 96 ---
Rhovanion Region Guide
96
cross the Elf-path and explore the wooded hills, fishermen 
might wander into the eastern eaves, but no living soul 
willingly dwells in this haunted land. Orcs once dwelt in 
great numbers beneath the Mountains, but most of them 
perished in the Battle of Five Armies. Slaves taken by these 
Orcs in the past were imprisoned in the caves under the 
mountains, but with the crowning of a King in Dale, the 
Goblins dare not cross the marshes. 
Notable Characters
The Werewolf of Mirkwood
The Werewolf of Mirkwood is an evil spirit in wolf-form. 
In the Elder Days, it prowled alongside Dragons and other 
fell creatures in the armies of the Enemy, and guarded the 
gates of his fortresses. It feasted on the flesh of Elves and 
Men, and grew large and strong and ever more ferocious 
until no foe could stand against it in battle. 
Despite its strength, the Werewolf was destroyed. Elves of 
old struck it with blinding light, and brought it down with 
a hail of arrows and spears. Disembodied, the spirit fled 
sightless and witless, and hid in the caves under the Dark 
Mountains. There it slumbered for many ages, until the 
Enemy returned to Dol Guldur.
Sauron could not tame the Werewolf, nor did he wish 
to. A stray beast was of more use to him than another 
obedient minion. The Werewolf’s attacks would draw 
attention away from Dol Guldur, giving him more time to 
prepare. Through his sorcery, he taught the Werewolf to 
possess the body of a living wolf, filling it with the spirit’s 
power and malice. Since then, the Werewolf of Mirkwood 
has roamed the woods, driven by its unquenchable 
bloodthirst. 
The creature cannot be slain — or, rather, its body may 
be destroyed, but the spirit can then inhabit another wolf, 
and another, and another. The Werewolf is a constant 
threat to all the Free Peoples in Mirkwood. The Werewolf 
of Mirkwood’s incarnated form is provided on page 113 
of the Loremaster’s Guide. Should the werewolf be slain, 
it rises again in a new body on the next moonless night.
The Ghost of the Forest
Sauron has sent three Ringwraiths north to reclaim 
Mirkwood. Of the three, one remains in Dol Guldur, 
and one serves as a messenger between Mirkwood and 
Mordor. 
The third Nazgûl’s role is to awaken all the evil things in 
the wood and bind them to Sauron’s command. In this 
time, the Nine mostly go abroad Unclad and Invisible, 
and cannot be seen by mortals. Even the Wood-elves can 
perceive them only as a creeping shadow.
The Ghost of the Forest is a thing of horror and darkness. 
He is a whispering voice in the shadows, a chill in the air 
that stops the heart, a weaver of malice. The Ghost flits 
through Mirkwood, from Dol Guldur to the northernmost 
trees, inspiring terror as he goes. He visits the Orcs in the 
caves, bidding them march to Dol Guldur. He gathers the 
Wargs, making them assemble in great packs. He goads 
the Werewolf of Mirkwood to redouble its attacks. 
The Ghost does not neglect the mortal Men who live 
within the forest. To evil Men, he is a shadowy presence 
that promises power if they do his master’s bidding. He 
whispers to the greedy and the weak-souled, sowing 
dissent and hatred among the Woodmen and the 
merchants travelling to Dale and Lake-town. He poisons 
the hearts and minds of good men, sapping their spirits 
and weakening them.

--- PAGE 97 ---
97
The Return of the Nazgûl
"The dark things that were driven out in the year of the 
Dragon’s fall have returned..."
In the year 2951 of the Third Age, the Enemy 
dispatches three of the Nine to Dol Guldur, to restore his 
fortress and to reawaken the evil things of Mirkwood. 
While this Guide assumes a starting date of 2946, 
before the Nazgûl arrive, the presence of the three is 
such an important factor in the affairs of Mirkwood 
that we include them here for completeness. 
These three Ringwraiths play a much greater role in 
The Mirkwood Campaign as the hand of the Shadow 
once again darkens the green lands and reawakens the 
evils of the forest.
The Great Vampire
When the world was young and the wood was green, a 
Great Vampire dwelt in the Mountains of Mirkwood. The 
mountains were a grim and frightful place even then, 
before the Shadow fell fully upon them. The Elves built 
their Refuge in the bright valleys, and turned their gaze 
away from the foreboding hills. 
The vampire — an ancient spirit in the shape of a bat — 
troubled the Elves, and Prince Thranduil went in hunt of 
the monster. He found the Vampire’s lair in a nightmarish 
chasm deep beneath the mountains, and climbed down 
to battle her. The vampire’s dreadful spells bewitched the 
prince’s guards, and Thranduil was forced to fight alone.
Songs are still sung, more than three thousand years 
later, of the duel of the vampire and the Elf-prince. The 
two fought for a day, as the vampire stalked Thranduil 
through the lightless caves. In the end, Thranduil found 
a crack that led out into the open air, just as dawn was 
breaking. The vampire wriggled through the crack after 
Thranduil, but was blinded by the sudden light, and the 
Elf took the opportunity to behead the vile creature. While 
the lesser spawn continue to blight Mirkwood, the defeat 
of the Great Vampire was a grievous blow against the 
Enemy.
The potential return of the Great Vampire is explored in 
The Mirkwood Campaign.
Notable Places
Ruins of the Refuge
When the Shadow first fell upon the wood, the Elves built 
a fortified town in the mountains. They ringed this place 
with silver beeches, and hid there many of the treasures 
they took from their old halls at Amon Lanc. The Elves 
abandoned the refuge nearly 1,500 years later, as the 
Shadow returned with greater strength and loosed the 
Werewolf of Mirkwood upon them. 
Today, the Refuge is mostly ruined. A few overgrown 
walls still stand, and the Orcs cruelly cut down the silver 
beeches beloved by the Elves. Still, there remain hidden 
chambers concealed with cunning spells, where Elven 
scouts rest when travelling in the south. Men tell tales of 
gold and jewels hidden in the elven ruins. 
Resting in the Refuge
Finding an intact part of the Refuge requires a 
Wisdom (Survival) check at a DC equal to 15 plus the 
Guide’s current Shadow score. If successful, the heroes 
have found one of the hidden chambers still protected 
by the magic of the Elves. They may benefit from a 
long rest.
However, on a failure orcs or other monsters have 
occupied that part of the Refuge. If the Guide fails 
with a natural 1, the enemies are aware of the heroes 
and might attack them.
The Undermountains
There are tunnels under the forest, spreading from the 
Mountains of Mirkwood but extending far beyond their 
reaches. The deepest roots of the trees are not deep 
enough to find them all. Orcs and bats cluster in these 
Undermountains, and worse things crawl deeper still. 
There are few Orcs in Mirkwood. Even during the years 
when the Necromancer reigned in Dol Guldur and drew 
all the evils of the forest under his banner, there were not 
The Greatest of the Forests

--- PAGE 98 ---
Rhovanion Region Guide
98
many Orcs in his service. The great Orc-holds of Wilderland 
are in the Misty Mountains and in the Grey Mountains, 
south and east of the city under Mount Gundabad. The 
Orcs of Mirkwood are mostly found hiding in the upper 
caverns of the Undermountains, which are reached by 
steep-sided holes and ravines gaping wide in the forest. 
These are small, mean Forest Goblins, long of limb and 
sharp of tooth, miserable beasts preyed on by Spiders and 
Elves alike (see page 135).
Other, far older things live in the deeper caves of the 
Undermountains, things that were never named by the 
Elves. These caves were sealed by the Elves in the First Age, 
lest the crawling squirming horrors should emerge from 
the darkness and bring woe to the world. So far, these 
abominations have remained contained in the caves, and 
not even the Necromancer dared to crack the seals. The 
things are older than he is; they were born from the malice 
of Morgoth before the world was made.
The Beacon Tower
The Dwarves raised this castle when they built the Forest 
Road. It is located on a rocky promontory on the northern 
slopes of the Haunted Hills. The forest has reclaimed the 
castle walls and outbuildings, but the main keep and its 
tall tower stand proud of the surrounding trees. Mines 
and tunnels beneath the keep delve into the hillsides. The 
Dwarves found tin and iron in the Haunted Hills. 
The tower endured many sieges by the forces of Dol 
Guldur, but no foe took it in battle. The Beacon Tower fell 
from within, when the Dwarves turned on each other. 
Today, the tower stands empty, although Orcs garrisoned 
it as a northern outpost of the Necromancer’s realm in 
years past.
Spider Ravines
The Haunted Hills are riven by deep chasms and cracks, 
strung with thick webs. Some of the fattest, nastiest 
Spiders live in these dark valleys. Even before the 
Shadow fell on the forest, these hills were an evil, sullen 
place, home to ghosts and malicious spirits. Sometimes, 
the webs quiver even when there is no wind, as if some 
unseen force clothes itself in spider-silk. The spiders 
bring the bodies of their victims here once they have 
sucked them dry, and the floor of the ravine is covered in 
white bone and webbing.
During the winter months, the Haunted Hills become 
especially dangerous. Snows blow down from the north 
and turn the hills into a wilderness of frozen trees and 
icy slopes. Unnatural cold makes the hills virtually 
impassable for nearly a third of the year. The only ‘safe’ 
way to pass through the Haunted Hills from the Mountains 
of Mirkwood to the Heart of Mirkwood is to brave the 
ravines.
The Western Eaves
This tract of oakwood is the most thickly populated region 
in Mirkwood. Here dwell the Woodmen of Mirkwood. 
Their small hamlets and cottages are within a mile inside 
the forest edge — deep enough to offer protection from 
attackers, but not so far from their farmland. Their two 
larger settlements are hidden in the shadowy depths of 
the wood, and the trails to these refuges are well hidden 
and guarded by sentries. Whenever the Woodmen fear 
attackers, the farmers on the forest fringe pack up and

--- PAGE 99 ---
99
bring their families and herds to the safety of Woodland 
Hall or Woodmen-town.
To the east of this region flows the Dusky River, which 
springs somewhere in the Haunted Hills and meanders 
west and south. The river’s water is silted and dark, hence 
its name, but the water is drinkable — most of the time. 
Sometimes, animal carcasses — rotting and curiously 
misshapen, as if they were mutilated before they died — 
wash down from the Haunted Hills, and they carry with 
them illness and foul water. 
The river is navigable, and the Woodmen use flat-bottomed 
boats to travel between Woodland Hall and Woodmen-
town. The river empties into a wide lake called the Black 
Tarn. The still waters here are mirror-smooth and tranquil. 
Herons wade amid the reeds on the edges of the lake, hunting 
fish and eels. The southern edge of the lake is ringed by low 
wooded hills. Hidden trails from the northern banks of the 
lake run through tangled pine-woods to the forest edge and 
the home of the wizard Radagast, Rhosgobel. 
Parts of the Western Eaves, especially around the 
Woodman 
settlements, 
are 
almost 
pleasant. 
The 
Woodmen thinned the trees, letting a little sunlight filter 
through the canopy. They made clearings as woodland 
pasture for their herds. Children play in the bushes near 
Woodmen-town. Still, this is Mirkwood — the pall of 
darkness still hangs heavy, even under the noonday sun. 
There is no safety in Mirkwood. One of those running 
children might stray five minutes walk from home, and 
find herself utterly lost amid unfamiliar trees.
Combat Scenery: birdsong, bogs, briar patches, hedges 
of tree limbs, low boughs, mud, shallow water, streams, 
thick trees, warm sun
Wildlife
Boars and deer are common on the western edge of the 
woods. The bows and spears of the Woodmen drove away 
the wolves that once hunted here. Black sparrows and 
pheasants live in the trees here.
The Woodmen keep herds of sheep, cows and pigs. The 
black pigs they keep in the forest, letting them forage for 
acorns and roots in the black oak woods west of the Dusky 
River. The other animals graze on the fertile lands of the 
East Anduin Vales, and dislike being brought into the 
forest. 
When the Woodmen are forced to bring their herds into 
the wood for safe keeping, they must also be on watch 
for signs of madness — animals from outside the forest 
sometimes panic and rush off into the darkness, and 
one bolting sheep can scatter a whole herd. Strangely — 
perhaps because they interbreed with the wild boar of the 
woods — the pigs seem untroubled by the forest.
Around the Dusky River, and especially along the Black 
Tarn, live many river-birds, and fishes in plenty swim 
under the surface of the waters. The river forms a natural 
boundary against the Spiders, who dare not cross the 
water. The Woodmen keep careful watch on their northern 
and southern borders to stop Spiders creeping around 
the river, and must be equally careful when boating on 
its surface. The Spiders cannot swim, but sometimes they 
crawl out onto branches that overlook the stream and 
dangle sticky strands of webbing down into the path of 
approaching boats, like monstrous fishermen. 
Rhosgobel
The Western
Eaves
E
E
E
Woodmen-town
Woodland Hall
The Greatest of the Forests

--- PAGE 100 ---
Rhovanion Region Guide
100
Inhabitants
This is the land of the Woodmen. Less than a quarter 
of those who call themselves Woodmen actually live 
deep in the forest. Some live in the shadows of the Misty 
Mountains, at Mountain Hall, but most live on the edge of 
the woods. Still, Mirkwood is their home and their refuge, 
and the burial mounds of their ancestors are at the roots 
of the ancient trees.
Notable Characters
The River-maidens
Three nature-spirits, called the River-maidens, dwell near 
the Black Tarn. One is seen most often in the fast-flowing 
upper part of the Dusky River. She is the youngest of the 
three, and the most shy. Only rarely does she appear, and 
only to children or those who are especially kind or in 
need. Silverbell is her name. 
A second maiden is encountered frequently in the middle 
section of the river. She is a friend to the Woodmen, 
sometimes guiding their boats past danger, or making 
merry with them — and it is said that some Woodmen are 
descended from her dalliances. Her name among mortals 
is Sunshadow. 
The third maiden is seen only in the vicinity of the Black 
Tarn. She is the eldest of the three, and the wisest. She 
brings the Woodmen tidings of danger; when Spiders 
creep around the lake, or the Werewolf roams close, the 
maiden of the lake may warn the fisher-folk of their peril. 
Her name is rarely spoken aloud — it is Duskwater in the 
tongues of Men. All three River-maidens usually appear 
as young women swimming just below the surface of the 
water, but they all may assume the shape of silver trouts, 
to best flee from a threat.
Few creatures in the forest of Mirkwood are good to eat, 
but some are surprisingly tasty. Companions spending a 
Fellowship phase in Woodland Hall, Woodmen-town or 
Rhosgobel may join the hunt of the Woodmen. You may 
elect to make a DC 15 Wisdom (Survival) check before 
rolling on the following table. If you are successful, roll 
with Advantage. If you fail, roll with Disadvantage. If you 
choose not to make the check, just roll 1d20 and consult the 
table below:
1 Mirkwood Dark: You wander into a dangerous region of 
the forest, and gain 1 Shadow point. 
2-5 Nothing Useful: You are mocked mercilessly by the 
Woodmen for your lack of skill.
6-10 Nuts and Berries: You fail to catch anything worthy 
of the tale, but find plenty of food all the same. At the start 
of the next Adventuring phase, you gain one Hunt die. A Hunt 
die is a d4 and whenever you make a roll during a journey as 
a Hunter, you can choose to spend the Hunt die and add it to 
a roll before the Loremaster has told you if the roll succeeded 
or failed. Once a Hunt die is used, it is lost. Unused Hunt dice 
expire at the end of the Adventuring phase. 
11-13 Good Hunt: You keep up with the Woodmen and their 
hunt, and are welcomed at the cook-fire afterwards. At the 
start of the next Adventuring phase, you gain two Hunt dice. 
You may only use one Hunt die on a roll.
14-15 Great Hunt: Your good hearing and clever feet 
guide the Woodmen on the hunt, and it is one of the best 
of the season. You gain one Hunt die, and it is upgraded 
to be a d8.
16-17 A Mighty Boar: You brought home a fat forest 
boar, and everyone feasts! You gain two Hunt dice, each of 
which is upgraded to a d8.
18-19 A Stag: You brought down one of the fabled deer 
of Mirkwood. During the next Adventuring Phase the first 
time you are asked to make a roll as a Hunter you may 
choose to spend Inspiration. If you do so, you are considered 
to have rolled exactly what you needed to in order to succeed. 
If no result on the die would produce a victory, you cannot 
use this benefit.
20 A Deadly Hunter: Choose two different entries on this 
table other than A Stag and gain the benefits of both.
New Fellowship Phase Undertaking: Go Hunting with the Woodmen

--- PAGE 101 ---
101
River-maiden
Medium Nature Spirit
STR 
12 (+1)
DEX 
17 (+3)
CON 
14 (+2)
INT 
11 (+0)
WIS 
12 (+1)
CHA 
20 (+5)
Armour Class 13
Hit Points 52 (8d8+16)
Speed 30 ft, swim 60 ft
Skills Athletics +3, Stealth +5, Perception +3
Senses passive Perception 13
Languages Silvan, Westron
Challenge 1 (200 XP)
Amphibious. A River-maiden can breathe air or water .
Silver Trout-form. The River-maiden can transform into 
a silver trout in order to escape her enemies. As a trout, 
she can use her bonus action to Dash each turn. 
Speak with Birds and Fish.The River-maiden can 
communication with the creatures of the forest. Goodly 
beasts might carry messages for her or warn her of danger.
Actions
River-charm. The River-maiden targets one creature 
within 30 ft of her. That creature must make a DC 15 
Wisdom saving throw or become Charmed by the maiden. 
A Charmed creature is not controlled by the maiden, but 
will take actions to aid the maiden in any way possible. The 
condition lasts until the creature takes a long rest or an ally 
of the maiden attacks the Charmed creature.
New Cultural Virtue: River-blooded 
(Woodmen of Mirkwood only)
A secret of your heritage has been revealed to you — 
according to family tradition, one of your ancestors 
was a lover of a River-maiden, and she gifted him 
with a child to raise. You are descended from that 
child.
Once 
per 
Adventuring 
phase, 
when 
you 
spend 
Inspiration on a check related to boating or swimming, 
you are considered to have rolled exactly what you 
needed to succeed. If no result on the die would gain you 
victory, you cannot invoke this virtue. Furthermore, if 
your journey carries you near to the Dusky River, you 
gain Inspiration the first time you visit the river in an 
Adventuring phase. You can also understand the speech 
of the black herons that live among the riverbanks. 
Radagast the Brown
Radagast the Brown is a Wizard. He abides in a small wood 
of ancient oaks in Rhosgobel, close to the southwestern 
eaves of Mirkwood, where many Woodmen have come 
to stay near him. Once content to spend his time in quiet 
conversation with birds and animals (whose diverse 
languages he seems to be able to speak fluently) Radagast 
had an active part in the White Council’s preparations to 
attack Dol Guldur, and since that time he has shown an 
increased interest in the matters of the people living in the 
area.
Like his peers Saruman the White and Gandalf the Grey, 
Radagast has always appeared to the eyes of mortals like 
a vigorous old man who doesn’t seem to wither and grow 
weaker with the passing of the years. He wears a tall, wide-
brimmed hat and brown cloak over clothes of earthen 
colours, and sports a long, wild-looking reddish beard 
slowly turning grey, and long, unkempt hair of the same 
hue. He usually paces his stride with his long Oaken staff.
Radagast can be encountered in his house at Rhosgobel 
at any time. He seems to rarely leave his small cottage, 
apart from short walks into the forest to the east. Despite 
his solitary life, Radagast seems to be well informed about 
The Greatest of the Forests

--- PAGE 102 ---
Rhovanion Region Guide
102
events happening in the land of the Woodmen at any time, 
sometimes betraying knowledge of things befalling in more 
distant places in Wilderland. While never really rude, his 
years of isolation (or his friendship with Beorn…) seem 
to have made his conversation come across as brusque 
or abrupt, as if he was unused to the common laws of 
courtesy recognised by Men, Dwarves and Elves.
Strangers wanting to meet Radagast and asking the local 
Woodmen for directions are led all the way to his house, 
reached by a pathway of white stones starting close to the 
Great Hall of Rhosgobel. Visitors trying to reach the house 
of the Wizard alone seem to lose their way easily and find 
themselves back in front of the Great Hall after walking 
aimlessly for some time. During the warm months of 
the year, any visitor might be forced to wait for a while, 
together with the many Woodmen coming to see the 
Wizard and seek his help.
Motivations: I am looking for the right sort of folk, not all 
who visit me will get my help.
Expectations: +1: Travellers bring tidings: if the heroes 
have news from afar; -1: Greed is a flaw in the hearts of 
men (if the players ask for too many rewards or boons); -2: 
“A habit of the old; they choose the wisest person present 
to speak to” (if the characters interrupt or question 
Radagast’s wisdom).
Radagast as a Patron
Seventy years before his appearance during the War of 
the Ring, the Brown Wizard is the perfect replacement 
for Gandalf as the figure of a wise and enigmatic 
counsellor. Radagast’s own goals and achievements 
have been left indefinite at best by Tolkien, leaving 
ample room for creative speculation. 
Companions choosing Radagast as a patron might do 
so more to seek his support, rather than because they 
expect him to offer something to accomplish. Radagast 
possesses an extensive knowledge of herbs of any kind, 
and healers who follow his advice are able to find 
the most expeditious remedy for any type of ailment. 
Moreover, his animal friends may deliver messages 
or warnings across Wilderland in a very short time. If 
Radagast needs the help of a company of heroes that 
chose him as their patron, then he can find them quickly 
through his animal friends if they are to be found 
anywhere in Wilderland. A mission from the Brown 
Wizard will most likely involve Dol Guldur, the primary 
concern of Radagast the Brown for many decades.
Radagast can be chosen as a patron if the companions 
met him during an Adventuring phase and only if at 
least one character in the group possesses a rating of 
Wisdom of 15 or higher. A company with Radagast 
as a patron may meet him when spending a Fellowship 
phase in Rhosgobel.

--- PAGE 103 ---
103
The Magic of Radagast
The wizardry of Radagast seems to be connected to the 
animal and plant life populating Middle-earth. He is 
learned in the lore of herbs and beasts, and seems to 
have a special friendship with birds. He is also said to 
be "a master of shapes and changes of hue", an ability 
possibly enabling him to accomplish different things: 
from assuming the form of an animal himself (like a 
bird, a terrestrial beast, or even a fish) to altering the 
form or colour of someone or something else. 
A company of adventurers enjoying the friendship of 
Radagast might be magically hidden from the eyes 
of all wicked creatures as they advance on a mission 
undertaken with the favour of the Wizard, or they 
might find it singularly easy to fish from the forest’s 
rivers, or particularly refreshing to rest under the 
boughs of its trees.
For those Loremasters who have expanded their 
vision of Middle-earth with OGL spells, the schools 
of illusion and transmutation might be Radagast’s 
specialty.
Ingomer Axebreaker
The Woodmen of the forest have no king. Each House has a 
council of Elders, and important decisions are voted on by 
everyone who meets beneath the roof of the Great House. 
In time of need, the Woodmen follow the traditions of their 
ancestors and elect a war-leader, but he who is chosen 
remains in charge only for the duration of the threat — he 
is no chieftain or lord. 
Ingomer Axebreaker of Woodland Hall, then, is no more 
important than any of the other old men who sit on the 
dais near the council fire. His words are given no more 
weight, his wisdom is not counted as any greater than 
the rest — but everyone east of the Great River knows that 
Ingomer rules the Hall. He is an old warrior, in his sixtieth 
summer, but he is still canny and brave. Few among the 
Woodmen are as respected as he is, and none have as 
much support among all four Houses of the people. If the 
Woodmen of the forest ever chose a king, then they would 
likely name Ingomer Axebreaker. He fears that day, for 
Ingomer knows that one king leads to another, and that 
the Woodmen are too widely scattered for another, lesser 
king to rule them all without resorting to violence. 
Ingomer may have the respect and wisdom to bring 
Mountain Hall together with Rhosgobel, or into agreement 
with the sons of Balthi, but he doubts his heirs could ever 
do the same.
Ingomer’s first son vanished in the forest when he was 
seven years old. His second son Iglund is his heir; jokes 
about Iglund’s stupidity are bandied about Woodland 
Hall, but never where Ingomer can hear them.
Motivation: The fate of the Woodmen is in my sight, and 
if I stray but a little all will come to ruin.
Expectations: +1 if the heroes bring news of the 
Woodmen, or invoke the name of Radagast, -2 if they 
expect him to overrule the elders or try to appeal to his 
pride.
Ingomer Axebreaker
Medium Human
STR 
17 (+3)
DEX 
10 (+0)
CON 
15 (+2)
INT 
12 (+1)
WIS 
16 (+3)
CHA 
14 (+2)
Armour Class 18 (Heavy mail, Shield)
Hit Points 78 (12d8+24)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Perception +6, Riddle +4, Survival +6, Traditions +4
Senses passive Perception 16
Languages Westron
Challenge 5 (1,800 XP)
Broken Blades (1/day). Ingomer may invoke this ability 
as a bonus action. He automatically scores a critical hit 
with all attacks this round. Afterwards, his weapon is 
destroyed.
Leadership. As a bonus action, Ingomer can command 
a nearby Warrior to act. That Warrior takes his turn 
immediately after Ingomer.
Actions
Multiattack. Ingomer makes three attacks with his axe.
Axe. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 7 (1d8+3) slashing damage or 8 (1d10+3) 
slashing damage if wielded with both hands.
The Greatest of the Forests

--- PAGE 104 ---
Rhovanion Region Guide
104
Notable Places
Rhosgobel
Radagast the Brown has dwelt here for many years. The 
name ‘Rhosgobel’ means ‘Brown Hay’ or Hedge, referring 
to the thorny barrier that protects the village from the 
evils of the forest, and that makes Rhosgobel one of the 
safer settlements in Mirkwood even when the wizard is not 
at home.
Radagast is something between an eccentric old great-
uncle and a living god to the people of Rhosgobel. Most 
of the time, the wizard is just another old man snoozing in 
the sun or telling stories of the old days, but everyone in 
Rhosgobel has seen him performing little magic tricks or 
healing sick children.
Sometimes, though, Radagast puts forth his power, 
and reminds the Woodmen that he is a Wizard of great 
potency. All of the Woodmen are utterly devoted to him 
and would do anything for him.
1.	 The ‘Brown Hay’: This tall hedge surrounds 
Rhosgobel on three sides. On the fourth side, facing 
west, the Woodmen built earthen banks and walls of 
wooden stakes to defend themselves against attack. 
The hedge bristles with thorns and stinging weeds, and 
is strong enough to entangle the biggest, nastiest boar 
or even a Troll. As the Orcs of Dol Guldur discovered 
on past raids, the hedge is also too wet to burn easily, 
even in the height of summer.
2.	 The Hedge-Gate: The only gap in the hedge is this 
little door, carved with the image of a grinning face. 
Radagast made the door himself, and placed a great 
deal of his magic into it. If any enemy touches the 
door, it shrieks a warning. Some Woodmen insist 
that the door has been known to quietly eat smaller 
Spiders and other trespassers.
3.	 The Great Hall: The longhouse at the heart of 
Rhosgobel is the smallest of the halls of the Woodmen. 
It is easy to defend, with narrow doors, sturdy walls 
and lots of weapons close at hand. At the head of 
the hall, next to the chieftain’s seat, is a special stool 
reserved for Radagast. It faces the Great River, with its 
back to the forest.
4.	 Woodman Cottages: The small homes of the 
Woodmen. Each cottage, despite its size, houses 
an extended family. The houses are used only for 
sleeping and storage — almost every other activity is 
done communally.
5.	 Cold Spring: Rhosgobel is far from the Dusky River, 
so this icy-cold spring that wells out of the ground

--- PAGE 105 ---
105
provides the settlement with water. The waters of the 
spring reflect Radagast’s mood; they spurt when he 
is angry, trickle when he is sad, and bubble when he 
laughs. 
6.	 Forge: The forge at Rhosgobel is an important asset 
for the Woodmen. Most of their metalwork comes 
from Mountain Hall, but repairs and day-to-day 
ironworking is done here.
7.	 Radagast’s House: Well, usually. Radagast’s house 
is almost as elusive as the Wizard himself. If Radagast 
wishes to be found, then his house is here in this grove 
of trees at the end of a little twisty path of crushed 
white stone. If the Wizard is away or wishes privacy, 
then there is no house to be found. Radagast’s cottage 
looks like an explosion in a mathom-house that was 
then colonised by woodland creatures. Squirrels and 
field mice scurry through piles of books and scrolls, 
and crows perch on rafters from which cloaks, 
weapons and gardening tools hang.
8.	 The Wizard’s Garden: This garden was once within 
the grove of trees, until one day it wasn’t. Here is where 
Radagast grows all sorts of medicinal plants and herbs, 
as well as the best vegetables east of Bagshot Row.
9.	 Animal Pens: As Rhosgobel is closest to the forest’s 
edge, it is home to the majority of the Woodmen’s 
animal herds. During harsh winters, the herders 
bring these animals here to these sheds so they can 
huddle together for warmth and shelter.
The Greatest of the Forests

--- PAGE 106 ---
Rhovanion Region Guide
106
Woodmen-town
The oldest settlement of the Woodmen was founded by 
the folk of Balthi long ago. He brought the Lamp out of 
the darkness, and the light of the Lamp has ever protected 
Woodmen-town and its inhabitants. 
The town nestles on the banks of the Dusky River, which 
blocks attacks from the east. The Woodmen also use the 
river to travel — Woodland Hall is upstream, and the 
villages around the Black Tarn are downstream.
The Woodmen of Woodmen-town are proud and brave. 
Theirs is an ancient heritage, stretching back nearly 
a thousand years. To a civilised traveller from Dale or 
Gondor, they may look like rough wild Men of the woods, 
but the folk of Woodmen-town consider their lineage to be 
the equal of that of any king.
Woodmen-town faces a precarious existence. Spiders and 
other horrors out of the wood assail them regularly. Still, 
they have endured here for nine hundred years, and made 
this wood their home.
1.	 Great Hall: Also known as the House of Balthi or the 
Hall of the Lamp, for the Lamp hangs from the roof of 
this building. On special feast-days or times of need, 
the Lamp is brought out and hung from a carved pole 
so that its light may be clearly seen for miles around.
2.	 Palisade: A wall of stakes to block attackers. The 
Woodmen have fought many different foes and 
learned the best way to deal with each of them. The 
wooden walls hold back Orcs and raiders. Dog packs 
watch for wolves that might slip through gaps in the 
palisade. Specially grown thorns prevent Spiders

--- PAGE 107 ---
107
from crawling over the top. Children gather bunches 
of fragrant herbs that are then burnt to drive away the 
stench of noisome vapours and evil spirits. The wall is 
as strong as any wall can be in Mirkwood.
3.	 Market Green: Woodmen-town stands midway 
between Rhosgobel and Woodland Hall, so it is where 
the Woodmen come to trade and talk. The Market 
Green is a low grassy mound used for both markets 
and councils of war. 
4.	 Docks: The Dusky River runs close to the edge of the 
town. The Woodmen use small, sturdy boats made 
from dug-out tree trunks to navigate the river. Larger 
rafts carry cargos up to Woodland Hall or down to 
the villages along the Black Tarn.
5.	 Guest Houses: As many folk from the other 
settlements visit Woodmen-town, they maintain these 
guest-houses. Normally, guests stay in the Great 
Hall, but there is not always space there. The original 
guesthouses were once inhabited by residents of 
Woodmen-town, but many people abandoned this 
settlement when the shadow returned to Mirkwood. 
6.	 Kennels: The folk of Woodmen-town were the first to 
tame the hounds of Mirkwood, who are — it is said 
— descended from the hound-companion of Beren, a 
great hero of Men in the First Age. 
Woodland Hall
Woodland Hall — Wuduseld in the language of the Vales 
of Anduin — is the youngest but also the largest of the 
Woodman settlements in Mirkwood.
The Greatest of the Forests

--- PAGE 108 ---
Rhovanion Region Guide
108
Those fleeing the returning Shadow in the south chose this 
place around five hundred years ago, and they built their 
first home atop a defensible mound. They found that the 
northern forests gave good hunting, and attracted many 
settlers from both the southern settlements and outside 
Mirkwood.
The folk of Wuduseld are the friendliest and most open 
of the Woodmen. They have the most contact with the 
Beornings and the Elves, and are somewhat sheltered 
from the worst evils of the forest. However, without the 
protection of powerful allies like Radagast, they are 
especially vulnerable to the threat of the Shadow.
1.	 Woodland Hall: The proper Wuduseld, the Great 
House stands on a steep-sided hill. Generations of 
work by the Woodmen cut away the sides of the hill, 
so now there is only a single path leading up to the 
flat top, making it very easy to defend. Woodland Hall 
is a magnificent structure, more than twice as large 
as any other Great Hall and richly decorated with all 
manner of carvings and tapestries.
2.	 Hedge 
and 
Stockade: 
The 
intricate 
hedge 
surrounding the village is the tallest the Woodmen 
have ever raised west of the forest. It is reinforced by 
an ancient stockade, raised atop an earthen rampart. 
The older stakes composing the wooden barrier are 
intricately wound with carvings, and are considered 
to magically protect the hall.
3.	 Caves: These caves at the base of the cliff are cool 
even in the height of summer, and so are used to store 
meat and other perishable goods. The eastern caves 
become partially flooded at times, and the River-
maidens have been seen sporting there.

--- PAGE 109 ---
109
4.	 Watchposts: Platforms atop these tall trees provide 
advance warning of any approaching threat. The thick 
forest canopy hides most movement, but the Woodmen 
are adept at spotting shaking leaves or the sudden 
flight of birds that signal the presence of an intruder. 
Each look-out is trained to imitate the whistles and 
calls of various birds so they can communicate with 
each other secretly, and each watchpost has a horn to 
sound to alert the town below.
5.	  Tree Houses: The big oak trees in this forest support a 
small number of very old tree-houses of considerable 
size, built by the early settlers of Woodland Hall. A few 
solitary individuals still inhabit them, as they believe 
that in Mirkwood you are safer in the treetops than on 
the ground. Some of these Woodmen boast that they 
were ten years old before their feet ever touched the 
ground.
6.	 Docks: North of this point, the Dusky River becomes 
too narrow and swift to be easily navigable, but there 
is a wide and still pool here for the boats to dock.
 
7.	 Woodland 
Road: 
In 
years 
past, 
ambitious 
Woodmen dreamed of cutting a path through the 
forest to the north-west, to emerge close to the Old 
Ford. The elders of the Woodmen objected — they 
feared that if such a road was opened, enemies could 
easily follow it into the forest and the protection of 
Mirkwood would be lost. Instead, the Woodmen cut 
several sections of the road, leaving forested gaps 
between each section. Each section was a smooth, 
well-maintained path through the forest along which 
a traveller or even a horse and cart could move 
quickly, but it ended abruptly. Only an experienced 
guide knew where the next section of road lay. 
Using the Woodland Road could cut the travel time 
between Woodland Hall and the Old Ford by several 
days. The Woodland Road is no longer maintained, 
and most of the road sections are now choked with 
new growth. Still, travellers in Mirkwood may still 
happen upon an odd long clearing that runs straight 
for a few miles before vanishing again.
New Fellowship Phase Undertaking: 
Enter Wuduseld
The carvings of the Great Hall of Wuduseld are a 
sight to behold. They are a magnificent testimony of 
the long history of the Woodmen and their wandering 
across Wilderland. Many tales are depicted in 
astonishing detail on the walls of the hall, along each 
pillar, rafter and beam. 
A companion spending a Fellowship phase at Woodland 
Hall may choose this undertaking. In the next 
Adventuring phase, any time the hero would make an 
Intelligence (History or Lore) check you can spend 
Inspiration. If you do so, you are considered to have 
rolled exactly what you need to succeed. If no value 
on the die would grant a success you may not use this 
benefit.
Heart of Mirkwood
The Heart of Mirkwood is a trackless forest of oak and 
dark fir, thick and old and strong. Even at their height, 
the Elves rarely came here, as they could sense a malice 
lying dormant within the intricate groves of trees. Now the 
Elves are gone, and while a land never wholly forgets the 
presence of the First-born, the forest’s memories are bitter 
and twisted. This land resents and hates all creatures that 
speak and walk on two legs. This hostility extends to Orcs 
and the other servants of the Necromancer. 
The Shadow fell on Mirkwood long ago, but this is not 
Sauron’s wood, not yet. His power reaches ever deeper 
into the forest as he tries to master Mirkwood. In time, the 
forest may come to serve him as the land of Mordor serves 
him. Until then, this is a dark, wild region unfriendly to all 
strangers.
The Heart is deep. It covers hundreds of square miles of 
forest, but mere distance does not convey the tangled, 
lightless horror of the woods. There are no trails, no 
landmarks, no signs of light, only the dark trees stretching 
to the horizon. 
The Greatest of the Forests

--- PAGE 110 ---
Rhovanion Region Guide
110
The south-western and north-eastern regions are both 
swampy, especially in spring when meltwater streams 
from the Haunted Hills and Mountains of Mirkwood. 
Parts of the south-eastern edge, along the East Bight, are 
comparatively traversable, but the central forest is beyond 
the skills of all but the greatest foresters and rangers. 
Combat Scenery: black toadstools, impenetrable hedges 
of tree limbs, sucking bogs, poison nettles, rotten trees, 
unsettling atmosphere, webs
Wildlife
The largest spider-colonies are found inside the Heart of 
Mirkwood. The Elves remember a time in the Elder Days 
when there were no Spiders in the forest, long long ago. 
They came out of the Southlands, scuttling across the 
wolds as if guided by some evil intent. The Spiders of the 
Heart of Mirkwood are as clever in their strange way as 
any Man. They do not build, but their spun webs are as 
large and sturdy and beautiful (in a horrific, inhuman 
way) as the greatest works of the Dwarves.
Some tales claim that truly gigantic spider-creatures, 
grandchildren of Ungoliant, dwell in the deepest reaches 
of the forest. These monsters are so huge that they rarely 
move, and instead are brought tribute by their countless 
spawn.
The Spiders have always been allies of the Enemy, if not 
always reliable ones. They rule the west and north of 
the region; elsewhere, a traveller might encounter bears, 
wolves or the huge boars that roam the woods. Once, wild 
The Old Oak
Heart of
Mirkwood
E
E
E
The Lost River
The Parliament of Spiders

--- PAGE 111 ---
111
kine and goats from the herds of the vanished Northmen 
might be found in the eaves of the forest, but the Spiders 
took them long ago.
Inhabitants
A few folk still dwell on the eastern edge of Mirkwood, but 
their numbers are dwindling. Many were the descendants 
of the people of Dale, and now that there is a King again, 
they are returning north to the lands of their forefathers. The 
other folk of this region are sullen, standoffish Northmen 
akin to the Woodmen, and exiles from Dorwinion. The soil 
east of Mirkwood makes for poor farming, and herding 
animals just attracts Spiders and wolves. Few men linger 
in this land for long. Just north of the East Bight, within 
the forest eaves, dwell small tribes of Men. Whether they 
are the lost children of Northmen who took refuge in the 
woods, or a different, wilder folk altogether, none can 
guess and they themselves do not remember. These Wild 
Men speak their own strange tongue, and wear furs and 
tanned skins. They do not know the art of working metal, 
but carve eerie stone statues. Some say they fell under the 
influence of the Shadow long ago, and that they worship 
the Enemy as a cruel god.
Finally, other Men can be encountered in the Heart of 
Mirkwood, as the Spiders sometimes take slaves to serve 
them. These unfortunate victims obey their monstrous 
masters out of sheer terror, but sometimes are kept docile 
with venoms that dull the mind, or are crippled with bites 
to the legs (if the Spiders do not need the slave to go about). 
Learn more about the Wild Men on page 137.
Notable Characters
Gwina
Gwina is a trader and merchant from the land of 
Dorwinion. Her brightly painted boat is a common sight 
on the River Running as she hauls cargoes of wine up from 
the warm lands of the east. Unlike the other traders, who 
go straight to Esgaroth and consider the eastern Woodmen 
to be bandits and thieves, Gwina sometimes lingers in this 
region to trade with the settlements along the forest edge, 
and she sometimes winters in the north, making camp in 
Mirkwood.
Motivation and Expectations: Gwina has much the 
same traits as a Merchant (page 69 of the Loremaster’s 
Guide ) but has less expectations of earning a fortune by 
trading with the folk of Mirkwood.
Gwina
Medium Human
STR 
13 (+1)
DEX 
14 (+2)
CON 
12 (+1)
INT 
15 (+2)
WIS 
13 (+1)
CHA 
16 (+3)
Armour Class 17 (Brazen scale hauberk)
Hit Points 16 (3d8+3)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Athletics +3, Persuasion +5, Riddle +4, 
Survival +3, Traditions +4
Senses passive Perception 11
Languages Westron
Challenge 1 (200 XP)
Far Traveller. If the Company is travelling with Gwina, 
she may be assigned a journey role.
Guided by the Stars. At the beginning of a journey if 
Gwina is allowed to spend time considering the night sky 
she gains Advantage on her first Journey Event check.
Actions
Scimitar. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 5 (1d6+2) slashing damage.
Valdis
The line of Girion has fallen low indeed, for one of its 
daughters to be a murderous outlaw. Valdis is a direct 
descendant of the old kings of Dale; her great-grandfather 
was a young boy who was spirited out of the wreck of 
Dale when the Dragon came. Valdis grew up in Lake-town 
as a penniless beggar with dreams of lost glory. Her one 
companion was a strange mad raven of the mountain 
called Eyebiter. The raven has a taste for human flesh, 
especially the carrion of the battlefield. In 2940, young 
Valdis stabbed a man in a tavern in Lake-town and fled 
into the wilderness. She is clever and charismatic, and 
dreams of returning to Dale as queen. She blames Bard 
for ‘stealing’ her throne, and believes that if she had been 
in Dale in 2941, she would have been the one to bring the 
Dragon down. Bard took her place in the prophecies, or 
so she claims.
Those who have played through Kinstrife and Bad Tidings 
in Wilderland Adventures may notice a resemblance 
between Valdis and the warlord Valter the Bloody; they 
are both rotten fruit from the same family tree. Valter 
The Greatest of the Forests

--- PAGE 112 ---
Rhovanion Region Guide
112
is her cousin, the son of her father’s sister. If the player 
characters were responsible for slaying Valter the Bloody, 
then Eyebiter brought tidings of his death to Valdis, and 
she swore bloody vengeance upon those who slew her kin. 
Valdis plays a role throughout The Mirkwood Campaign.
Valdis of the line of Girion
Medium Human
STR 
17 (+3)
DEX 
12 (+1)
CON 
14 (+2)
INT 
10 (+0)
WIS 
15 (+2)
CHA 
15 (+2)
Armour Class 16 (Ring-mail, Shield)
Hit Points 52 (8d8+16)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Perception +4, Riddle +2, Survival +4
Senses passive Perception 14
Languages Westron
Challenge 3 (700 XP)
Commanding. Allies of Valdis gain Advantage on attack 
rolls against enemies engaged with her.
Hard Eyed. Valdis has killed before, and will do so again. 
She scores a critical hit on any 18, 19 or 20 on an attack 
roll.
Hideous Toughness (Recharge after a short or long 
rest). Valdis can draw on her rage at being denied her 
birthright. She gains 10 (3d6) temporary hit points that 
last until the end of the fight if not removed by combat 
damage.
Actions
Multiattack. Valdis makes two attacks with her 
Broadsword.
Broadsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 7 (1d8+3) slashing damage.
Tauler, Tyulqin and Sarqin
These three are the largest Spiders of Mirkwood, a forest 
inhabited by Giant Spiders. Tauler is a male; the other 
two are his sisters and his mates at times, but the three 
fight amongst each other for dominance. All three were 
spawned by Shelob the Great, last child of Ungoliant. (See 
page 131 for more information on the Children of Shelob).
Notable Places
The Lost River
The Green River once flowed out of the Heart of Mirkwood, 
rolling out to the east to join the River Running some fifty 
miles past the end of the Long Marsh. Today, all that 
remains is a dry river bed. Something deep in the woods 
swallowed the whole river. 
The Green River was the best way to navigate through the 
Heart of Mirkwood, as it ran from the Haunted Hills to 
the middle of the forest before turning east. The river was 
never large, and ran almost dry at the height of summer, 
but it never wholly stopped until the Year 2901. 
King Thranduil suspects that some devilry of the Orcs in 
the Mountains of Mirkwood has blocked the river. Some 
travellers speak of dank fogs, new marshes and rotten 
trees in the Heart of Mirkwood, as though the Orcs have 
put the river to an ill purpose. 
If the lost river could be let loose once more, it would give 
the Elves a way to safely scout the deeper woods, for the 
river was ever a friend to the Free Folk.

--- PAGE 113 ---
113
The Old Oak
Every forest, no matter how great, began with a single 
tree. The Old Oak is older than Mirkwood, older than the 
Second-born race of Men, older than the Misty Mountains. 
It is a gnarled, half-fallen old thing, almost as wide as it 
is tall. 
The Old Oak stands in the middle of an oak glade, 
supported by the vigorous branches of its offspring, 
like an aged king held up by his sons. Of all the trees in 
Mirkwood, it is the most awake, and can speak. 
The oak is somewhere deep in Tyulqin’s realm, and neither 
Elf nor man has spoken to the Old Oak since the Shadow 
returned after the Watchful Peace. No-one knows if the 
tree still stands, and, if it does, whose side it is on.
The Parliament of Spiders
When great evil is afoot in Mirkwood, the Spiders gather. 
The word goes out in quivers of the web, and in the 
chittering night-speech of spider-kind. They come to this 
nightmare glade in the Heart of Mirkwood, and there they 
spin their parliament. 
A vast swathe of forest is shrouded in webs layered so 
thick they resemble pearlescent marble instead of silk. The 
Spiders weave towers and bastions, thrones and a great 
audience chamber where they gather.
The Narrows of the Forest
The Narrows of the Forest are testament to the strength 
— and hunger — of Men. Desiring better farmland, the 
Northmen of Rhovanion cleared a wide section of the 
forest over the course of generations. Unlike the Woodmen 
of today, few of these settlers saw the forest as anything 
other than a place of horror — or a source of firewood. 
Most built their halls not in the shelter of the forest, but on 
defensible hills and mounds. They cleared more and more 
of the forest and grew in strength and number, until an 
enemy came for them that no defensive wall or spikeclad 
hill could stop. 
The Great Plague hit them grievously, and in the following 
years they fell before enemies coming from the East. Their 
numbers dwindled and eventually they vanished from 
those lands, leaving only the Narrows and the East Bight 
as their legacy.
The East Bight is still mostly clear of trees. The soil there 
is rich and fertile, and many different tribes of folk have 
settled there and tilled it over the passing years. However, 
the proximity of Dol Guldur once meant that they were 
inevitably forced to flee or bow to the Necromancer.
The Narrows themselves are little different from other 
areas of Mirkwood, although the Shadow lies heavily 
The Greatest of the Forests

--- PAGE 114 ---
Rhovanion Region Guide
114
upon them. The terrain is flat and relatively free of 
obstacles, the trees do not grow so thickly as to block 
the way, and there are even old Elf-trails through the 
wood. If it were not for the pernicious influence of Dol 
Guldur, then the Narrows would be the easiest way to 
cross Mirkwood.
Combat Scenery: black toadstools, flooded pits, huge 
roots, impenetrable hedges of tree limbs, incessant 
buzzing, rotten trees, webs
Wildlife
Spiders may be encountered in the northern reaches, and 
the hills south of the Black Tarn. The rest of the woods are 
home to wolf packs who hunt on both the west and east 
sides of Mirkwood. The western Narrows are thronged 
with millions of buzzing, blood-sucking flies (they are 
Swarms of Insects). Large clouds of them rise up in 
summer to block out the sun. Travellers hoping to pass 
through the Narrows are inevitably tormented by these 
swarms.
Inhabitants
No living Men dwell in the Narrows. It is the dead who 
dwell here. The paths through the forest are haunted by 
Wood-wights. Whether these are the unquiet dead of the 
Northmen, or phantasms sent forth by the Necromancer, 
no-one is sure, but they guard the approach to Southern 
Mirkwood.
Notable Characters
Ceawin the Generous
Ceawin is chieftain of a tribe of men who once lived the 
West Nether Vales of Anduin. When word reached them 
that the Dragon was dead, Ceawin’s father led them east, 
around the southern edge of Mirkwood and through the 
Brown Lands to the East Bight. There, they have settled, 
and begun to farm. Ceawin is close friends with the 
Woodmen of Woodmen-town and Rhosgobel, and intends 
to unite his people with them. After the fashion of the 
Woodmen, he has built his hall under the shadow of the 
trees of the Narrows, and intends to wed the daughter of 
The Narrows
of the Forest

--- PAGE 115 ---
115
an elder of Woodmen-town. Radagast has warned Ceawin 
to stay away from Southern Mirkwood, but he does not 
listen. Ceawin’s ambitions are tracked in The Mirkwood 
Campaign.
Motivation: Men conquered the East Bight before, and 
lived well for many years — they can do so again under 
my rule!
Expectations: +2 if the Company has one or more 
Woodmen; +1 if they share ambitions of conquering the 
forest; -2 if they denigrate Ceawin’s ambitions.
Ceawin the Generous 
Medium Human
STR 
14 (+2)
DEX 
12 (+1)
CON 
18 (+4)
INT 
12 (+1)
WIS 
13 (+1)
CHA 
15 (+2)
Armour Class 16 (Heavy Mail)
Hit Points 42 (5d8+20)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Insight +3, Persuasion +4, Traditions +3
Senses passive Perception 11
Languages Westron
Challenge 2 (450 XP)
Call for Aid. Ceawin always has retainers ready to hand. 
He may use his action to summon 1d4 Warriors, who 
arrive in 1d6+1 rounds.
Actions
Great Spear. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 8 (1d12+2) piercing damage.
Reactions
Deadly Spear-Thrust. Ceawin may use his reaction to 
make a single melee attack against a creature that has 
just attacked him. If Ceawin inflicts a critical hit with this 
ability, the target is knocked Prone as the blow strikes a 
knee or other joint.
The Messenger of Mordor
The second of the three Nazgûl sent to Mirkwood is the 
Messenger. His mission is to let the will of the Dark Lord 
be known in Mirkwood, and to carry the orders of the 
Lieutenant of Dol Guldur to the Ghost of the Forest. The 
Messenger is the first of the Nazgûl to take the form of 
a rider dressed in black. His missions take him through 
the Narrows and then south across the Dead Marshes 
to the entrance to Mordor. He prefers the eastern route, 
as the western vales along the Anduin are too closely 
watched. The Messenger has a growing network of spies 
in Mirkwood. Some serve him out of fear, others for gold, 
others because they hope to ally themselves with the 
winning side in the war to come. Not all of them know 
who or what they serve. He has some spies among the 
Woodmen, fewer among the Beornings, and many in Dale 
and Lake-town.
Notable Places
The Hall of Ghosts
The Northmen who lived in this region disappeared 
long ago. The only sign that they ever existed is written 
on the very land where they lived. How, then, can one 
of their halls still endure? Tales tell of two hunters who 
chased a wounded deer into Mirkwood. They got lost, and 
wandered cold and hungry for days until they came upon 
a great longhouse in a clearing.
The house was clearly in good repair, with fresh turf on 
the roof and smoke rising from the chimneys. One of the 
hunters was alarmed, for he knew that no people lived in 
that part of the forest, and argued that they should leave. 
His companion chided him, and went inside. The first 
hunter lingered in the porch for a moment, and then he 
heard his friend screaming inside the longhouse, warning 
him to run and never look back.
Since then, other travellers have seen a hall where no 
building should be. The Hall of Ghosts can appear, it 
seems, anywhere along the edge of the East Bight, and 
usually is encountered by those in need of shelter or safety. 
What lies within the Hall, though, is a mystery, for no one 
has ever walked out alive. 
 
Southern Mirkwood
Darkness dwelt for too long in Southern Mirkwood, and 
the whole forest carries its taint. Black firs grow tangled 
and twisted, their branches laden down with strands of 
old man’s beard and black ivy. The mirk is darker here, 
so that no light penetrates the leaves and fogs even on the 
brightest days. The ground underfoot might be a sucking 
bog, or impassable broken terrain, or choked in thorns. 
Many of the trees themselves are dead, strangled by the 
The Greatest of the Forests

--- PAGE 116 ---
Rhovanion Region Guide
116
poisons that leeched into the soil. Outside of the land of 
Mordor, there is no place under the sun where the Enemy 
holds more power.
The terrain is mostly flat, save for a low ridge of hills 
that run from west to east, rising to the southwest of Dol 
Guldur. A few streams run down these elevations, and 
their waters trickle off into the south to perish in the Brown 
Lands. The naked hill upon which Dol Guldur stands rises 
in the midst of a vast marshland. 
Once it was a small expanse of still waters that the Elves 
made more pleasant by building bridges that arched 
gracefully above the swamp. The bog has grown much 
larger since that time, and the servants of the Necromancer 
tore the bridges down, to replace them with crude stone 
walkways that today are covered in moss and slime. 
The Orcs left many marks in the woods too. Parts of 
the forest were cut for firewood and timber, and these 
despoiled clearings are scattered through the middle part 
of the forest, linked by Orc-tracks.
The eastern region of the forest is as wild and untamed 
as the Heart of Mirkwood, but it is under the Enemy’s 
thrall. There are no trails here, but the trees quiver and 
bend according to the Enemy’s will. When war comes, the 
Orcs say that the trees will uproot themselves and march 
with them to crush the hated Elves. In the north-east lie 
more barrows and graves of the Northmen, now haunted 
by shades and evil spirits.
The forests to the southwest were once thinner and 
brighter than the rest of the wood, but the Enemy has 
warped the whole forest to be his fortress. Now, every 
part of Southern Mirkwood is forbidding and treacherous. 
Its reputation has spread far down the Great River, and 
now most people in the south believe that the whole forest 
must be equally horrific.
No discussion of Southern Mirkwood can neglect the mists, 
called the ‘reeks’ or the ‘glooms’ by the Woodmen. These 
thick fogs can cloak the whole forest in an impenetrable 
dark cloud. They seem to spring up anywhere without 
warning or reason, but some say that all mists in Southern 
Mirkwood flow out from Dol Guldur itself. 
Under the fog, all things appear sinister and menacing, 
the branches of the trees reach out like skeletal fingers, 
and it is impossible to tell north from south, east from 
west or even up from down. Travellers driven mad by the 
fog are sometimes found broken at the foot of the trees 
they climbed in a desperate attempt to escape.
Combat 
Scenery: 
black 
toadstools, 
huge 
roots, 
impenetrable hedges of tree limbs, poisonous fumes, 
rotten trees, stinging briars, thick reeking fogs, webs
Southern
Mirkwood
E
Fenbridge Castle
Demon’s Tower 
(Minas Raug)
Tyrant’s Hill 
(Amon Bauglir)
Dol Guldur
The Corpse-Woods
E
E
E
E

--- PAGE 117 ---
117
 
The Reeking Glooms
Loremasters wanting to use the thick fogs of 
Mirkwood on the battlefield might wish to have the 
fogs not only Blind heroes but have them make a DC 
15 Constitution saving throw or become Poisoned as 
well. Also, the fog tends to move, spreading its tendrils 
towards any champions that challenge the shadows of 
the southern forest.
Wildlife
The woods are empty and silent. Wolves slip around the 
fringes of the wood, and there are still a few herds of deer 
in the deep woods, but little else lives in this region. The 
lowlands and marshes around Dol Guldur are home 
to serpents and snakes of all kinds, the largest and 
deadliest of which escaped from the pits of the fortress 
itself. Black birds akin to the Gore-crows of the Long 
Marshes are common in the forest, especially along the 
borders of Southern Mirkwood. The Elves suspect that the 
Necromancer laid a spell on these birds, so they obey his 
commands and watch for enemies.
Inhabitants
The forest of Mirkwood is not much friendlier to Orcs 
than it is to anything that walks on two legs. But where 
the malevolence of the Dark Lord weighs the heavier, 
its servants thrive. When the Necromancer ruled, the 
Orcs dared go abroad by day as far as they went at 
night, protected as they were by the canopy of Southern 
Mirkwood and its glooms. Now that the White Council 
has driven their Master out of his fastness, many have 
deserted the region in despair, but many more still hide 
there, waiting.
Not all the Dark Lord’s minions are Orcs, though. The 
Necromancer counted many Men among his slaves, 
unfortunate souls who were attracted to Dol Guldur with 
threats and promises. Most of these folk slunk away into 
the night when the Necromancer abandoned them, to 
return to the lands of their origin to work their petty evils, 
but some remained in Mirkwood, wishing to reclaim Dol 
Guldur for their own.
Notable Characters
The Lieutenant of Dol Guldur
Three Nazgûl were sent to Mirkwood by Sauron in 2951, 
and the Lieutenant of Dol Guldur is their commander. 
Once a king of Men, he is second only to the Witch-king 
in malevolence, and is capable of more independent 
action than the other Ringwraiths. Of the three Nazgûl in 
Mirkwood, the Lieutenant is the most dangerous and the 
most cruel.
The Greatest of the Forests

--- PAGE 118 ---
Rhovanion Region Guide
118
The Lieutenant’s mission is twofold. First, he must 
rebuild the strength of Dol Guldur. The Dark Lord’s long 
preparations for war have finally started, and while he is 
summoning all wicked  creatures from his Dark Tower in 
Mordor, he needs to extend his reach to threaten the North 
and  West. Sauron originally intended to set the Dragon of 
Erebor against the Woodland Realm, but now the situation 
has changed greatly. The Battle of Five Armies has reduced 
grievously the strength of Orcs and Wargs, and united 
the quarrelling Free Folk. The Dragon is dead, there is a 
King in Dale once more, and the Dwarven Kingdom under 
the Mountain is restored — and now even the Beornings 
and the Woodmen of Western Mirkwood are growing in 
number. The Lieutenant must end all this, starting with 
the friends of Radagast, his ancient enemy.
Second, the Lieutenant must search for the One Ring. 
Behind all his plans and schemes, Sauron is always 
seeking his lost treasure, as he cannot accept the thought 
that it might have been destroyed when it was taken 
from him long ago. So, if the Ring is lost, and if it has not 
been claimed by some Elf-King or mortal lord, then the 
Lieutenant will find it.
The Lieutenant remains in spirit-form while in Dol Guldur, 
speaking from the shadows as the Necromancer did. When 
he must go abroad, he is clad in an Easterling-forged suit 
of black armour.
Maghaz, Orc-Captain
Among the Orcs, it is generally the strongest that prevails.
Those Orcs who demonstrate the greatest hatred and most 
dreadful wrath are placed in command of their lessers. 
The monsters are led by worse monsters.
Maghaz is an exception to this. To look at him, you would 
not think him very dangerous at all — he is small for an 
Orc, with a pot belly and one bleary-white eye and one red 
one. He is an old Orc from the Misty Mountains, whelped 
in the caves under Mount Gundabad many years ago, yet 
he has risen to command Black Uruks from Mordor. He 
triumphs through cleverness, not strength of arms. He’s 
seen many campaigns, and watched many a stronger Orc 
fall to an Elf-arrow or the spears of the Woodmen, or be 
torn down by other Orcs. Maghaz has learned to play 
his fellow Orcs off against each other, and to ingratiate 
himself with the dark powers.
The Lieutenant of Dol Guldur recognises Maghaz’s cunning 
and tactical skills, and has given him command of the Orc 
garrison in Mirkwood. Maghaz prefers to lead from the 
rear, so he sits at the Fenbridge and lets other Orcs die in 
his stead. (Learn more of Maghaz on page 129).
Mogdred
Once, Mogdred was a warrior and hunter from Rhosgobel, 
green as the first leaves of spring. Orcs captured him in 
battle and carried him off to the dungeons of Dol Guldur. 
There, he chose to serve instead of facing the tortures of 
the pit. He rose swiftly in the Necromancer’s favour, and 
became Captain of the Guard. He was clad in Orc-mail 
from head to toe, and given an ancient blade forged by 
those renegades called the Black Númenóreans. Mogdred 
was feared as the right hand of the Necromancer.  In truth, 
his role was to deceive, not to conquer. To maintain his 
disguise, Sauron could not send the Ringwraiths to do his 
bidding, nor could he reveal himself. Therefore, he used 
Mogdred as his mouthpiece among his servants, and as 
an envoy among his enemies.
When Sauron fled Dol Guldur, Mogdred was forsaken, 
left to command a fortress deserted of its defenders. 
From a high place, he spied the Wise approaching and 
fear overcame him. Angry at the Necromancer’s betrayal, 
Mogdred fled Dol Guldur with a retinue of trusted 
followers. Today, he inhabits the tower upon Amon 
Bauglir, the Tyrant’s Hill, and has gathered many warriors 
and fell beasts to his side, with the intent of creating his

--- PAGE 119 ---
119
own kingdom in the wood. The fate of Mogdred and his 
kingdom is a chief concern of The Mirkwood Campaign.
Motivation: I trust no one, but an alliance is the only 
way to keep my followers safe. I have not decided if the 
Woodmen or Dol Guldur will be the better ally.
Expectations: +1 if the heroes acknowledge Mogdred as a 
lord worthy of respect; -2 if they question him about his past 
or despise all servants of the Enemy as beyond redemption.
Mogdred 
Medium Human
STR 
16 (+3)
DEX 
13 (+1)
CON 
20 (+5)
INT 
12 (+1)
WIS 
13 (+1)
CHA 
14 (+2)
Armour Class 18 (Orc-mail, Shield)
Hit Points 85 (9d8+45)
Speed 30 ft
Saving Throws Constitution +7, Wisdom +3
Skills Intimidation +4, Perception +3, Shadow-lore +3
Senses passive Perception 13
Languages Westron, Orkish
Challenge 4 (1,100 XP)
Bulky Armour. Mogdred has Disadvantage on all 
Dexterity checks.
Excessive Strength of Arms (Recharge 5-6). Mogdred 
can deliver a blow so powerful, or so penetratingly 
painful, that any opponent struck must make a DC 12 
Dexterity save or fall Prone. 
Fell Speed. Mogdred may take a bonus action to 
Disengage from one opponent and engage another 
without provoking an opportunity attack. The new 
opponent must be within his regular movement rate.
Actions
Night-bringer. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 
ft, one target. Hit: 10 (1d10+5) magical slashing damage 
or 11 (1d12+5) slashing damage if wielded with two 
hands. The target must also make a DC 15 Constitution 
saving throw or suffer 7 (2d6) necrotic damage as well.
Reactions
Snake-like Speed (Recharge 5-6). Mogdred is adept at 
avoiding injury and can use his reaction to halve the 
attack damage on an attack that he is aware of.
The Sorceress of Mirkwood
Her true name is Zimraphel and she is of the line of the 
Black Númenóreans from Umbar. While her kin fell into 
sloth and decadence, she studied the stars and the mystic 
arts, hoping to find a way to cheat death. Word reached 
her in the distant south of a powerful Necromancer in 
Mirkwood, and she sailed up the Anduin in a black boat 
to pledge her service to him. It amused Sauron to teach 
her sorcery, and she hoped that he would give her a Ring 
of Power. 
Zimraphel, Sorceress of Mirkwood 
Medium Human
STR 
12 (+1)
DEX 
17 (+3)
CON 
15 (+3)
INT 
19 (+4)
WIS 
14 (+2)
CHA 
13 (+1)
Armour Class 13
Hit Points 90 (12d8+36)
Speed 30 ft
Skills History +6, Lore +6, Perception +4, Shadow-lore +6
Senses passive Perception 14
Languages Sindarin, Westron, Black Speech
Challenge 5 (1,800 XP)
Bewilder. The Sorceress can briefly drop the glamour 
that is her mortal appearance, confusing all around her. 
All creatures within 30 feet of her must make a DC 15 
Wisdom saving throw or be Stunned for 1d4+1 rounds. 
As long as the effect lasts, the Sorceress may make a 
melee attack against a Stunned creature as a bonus 
action. She can only use this ability once per long rest.
Iron Will. The Sorceress has no use for those who do 
not serve her ambitions. If the heroes have accrued any 
negative modifiers in an audience with her, the Final 
Audience check is made with Disadvantage.
Lordly Presence. Mortals that approach the Sorceress 
must make a DC 10 Wisdom saving throw or become 
Charmed by her aura. Elves are immune to this effect. 
A hero remains Charmed until the Sorceress leaves the 
area, she attacks the Charmed creature, or another hero 
succeeds in a skill check to oppose her will.
Actions
Gulrist. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 8 (1d10+3) magical slashing damage or 9 
(1d12+3) slashing damage if wielded with two hands. 
The target must also make a DC 15 Constitution saving 
throw or suffer 7 (2d6) necrotic damage as well.
Now that the Necromancer is gone, she fled the wrath of 
the Wizards and took refuge in the Demon’s Tower, in the 
far south-east of Mirkwood. So far, she has ignored all the 
entreaties of the Nazgûl to return to Dol Guldur, and plots 
instead to steal one of their Rings.
The Greatest of the Forests

--- PAGE 120 ---
Rhovanion Region Guide
120
Little humanity is left in her. She retains the semblance of 
her mortal form, but her soul is withered and blighted. 
She knows more of the inner workings of Dol Guldur than 
any save the Nazgûl, but has no interest in aiding the Free 
Peoples. 
Motivation: I deserve a Ring of Power.
Expectations: -1 if the Company has Radagast or 
another Wizard as a patron; +2 if they speak to her of the 
Rings. -2 if they deny her ambitions or oppose her plans 
in any way.
Notable Places
The Corpse-woods
The Northmen who cut the East Bight buried their ancestors 
in barrows on the edge of the wood, and planted a yew 
tree above each barrow. Today, the barrows are hollows 
amid the roots of towering trees, hidden unless you know 
which hollow goes deeper than the rest, leading down into 
the earth. 
Sauron sent forth spirits from Dol Guldur to inhabit 
these barrows. The Wood-wights spring from this region, 
and from here they haunt the Narrows and block any 
incursions into the Necromancer’s domain from the north.
Tyrant’s Hill (Amon Bauglir)
A fortress stands upon a wooded rise on the edge of the 
wood, some fifty miles north of Dol Guldur. The Elves 
named the rise the Tyrant’s Hill many years ago, for it was 
from the keep that sits upon it that many raiding parties 
issued forth. The tower was built by Orcs, who hewed 
the stone out of the hillside and cut living wood from the 
forest to make it. By night, the howling of the Wargs can be 
heard for miles around.
The keep was seized shortly after the fall of Dol Guldur by 
Mogdred and his followers, who slew the garrison and 
claimed it for their own. The Tyrant’s Hill is but a fraction 
of the size of Dol Guldur, but it is a greater fortification 
than any the Woodmen command, and from his high seat 
Mogdred can inflict terrible injury on his kinsfolk if he 
chooses. So far, he is content to demand tribute from the 
small settlements in the Nether Vales, but his cold heart 
turns ever north to Rhosgobel.
Demon’s Tower (Minas Raug)
The Demon’s Tower stands in the heart of a tangled thicket, 
its topmost battlements hardly taller than the surrounding 
trees. It is made of dark stone quarried in the Mountains of 
Mirkwood; every stone bears runes of power engraved by 
the lord of Dol Guldur. Attached to the tower are a walled 
bailey and several outbuildings. The Demon’s Tower is 
Dol Guldur’s eastern outpost, commanding the forest trail 
that leads south, but that is not its true purpose.
After they drove the Necromancer from Dol Guldur, 
the Wizards discovered that Sauron himself created 
the Demon’s Tower for some sinister project. Its design 
mirrors that of the Tower of Spells atop the Hill of Sorcery 
itself, suggesting that Sauron built this tower to work 
some foul magic, possibly to call shades from beyond. 
Even among the Orcs, this is a place of terror, for none 
know what horrors may lurk in the chambers beneath the 
tower. The Sorceress of Mirkwood now rules the tower. 
She commands a small and unreliable garrison of Orcs, 
as well as a few human mercenaries from the south. Of 
late, scouts have seen strange lights in the upper windows 
of the tower, and Radagast fears the Sorceress intends to 
continue the vile work of Sauron.
Fenbridge Castle
Foul marshes surround Dol Guldur on three sides. The 
easiest way to cross these swamps is via the Fenbridge, 
a snaking line of orc-built crossings that run from 
hillock to hillock, and the only way onto the Fenbridge is 
through Fenbridge Castle. Fenbridge Castle is a sprawling, 
unplanned fortress; it started as a mere gatehouse, but has 
had innumerable other towers and bastions added on over 
the years. Fenbridge once supplied food and manpower 
to Dol Guldur. Maghaz commands Fenbridge Castle, in 
charge of a much reduced garrison.
Dol Guldur
There is a haunting beauty in the ruins of the Necromancer’s 
fortress. Unlike Barad-dûr, which is a bastion of iron and 
suffering, Dol Guldur is graceful and pale, like a gibbous 
moon frozen  in stone. The building glimmers with an 
unearthly, unwholesome light. 
The description below is of Dol Guldur in 2947. Six years 
have passed since the White Council drove the Shadow 
from the citadel, and now Dol Guldur is mostly empty

--- PAGE 121 ---
121
and silent. Over the course of The Mirkwood Campaign 
the citadel will be restored to its former strength, when the 
Ringwraiths return to their master’s halls.
Even when Dol Guldur is unoccupied, it is never wholly 
abandoned. Orcs lurk in the dungeons, the Dead slumber 
uneasily in the moat, and other inhuman eyes watch from 
within the Hall of the Necromancer.
1.	 The Moathouse: The gates of Dol Guldur were 
forged of black iron and wound around with potent 
spells — but they were broken open when the Wise 
came. Despite this literal gaping hole in its defences, 
the Moathouse is sturdy and easy to hold. A row of 
murder-holes welcomes those who pass beneath its 
gate, and there are numerous concealed arrow-slits 
and murderous traps awaiting attackers. 
The Moathouse is the only way to enter Dol Guldur 
from the surface — there are numerous secret entrances 
to the Dungeons both inside and outside the walls.
2.	 The Dead Moat: This foul morass surrounds the Hill 
of Sorcery on all sides, and the only way across is a 
narrow stone bridge that leads from the Moathouse 
to a matching gatehouse and hence to the Outer 
Courtyard. The moat itself is a muddy hell of stagnant 
pools, concealed pits and poisonous fumes, but the 
greatest danger lurks beneath the surface. 
The dead of Dol Guldur lie into the bog, and any 
living creature that steps in the mud is dragged 
down by dead hands and drowned. Orcs and Elves 
and Men uncounted lie here, their pale hands made 
strong as iron by the unyielding grip of death. Each 
round, heroes must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving 
throw to avoid being Grappled. A Grappled hero 
(Escape DC 15) is drug below the water and is subject 
to suffocation.
There are safe paths through the Dead Moat, trails 
that wind between the mass graves left by carrion-
eating creatures, but no living man knows them. 
Leeches and, strangely, prodigiously huge snails live 
in the moat too.
3.	 Outer Courtyard: The wide outer courtyard is the 
marshalling-place for the citadel’s defenders. Dol 
Guldur is often cloaked in fogs and noxious vapours 
that blot out the sun, shading the Orcs and Goblins 
from the light. The buildings surrounding the outer 
courtyard contain workshops, wolf dens, smithies 
and other preparations for war.
4.	 Lower Keep: The squat lower keep was home to the 
citadel’s garrison and other lower-ranking servants 
and slaves. Most fled into the Dungeons when 
the White Council attacked, and the keep remains 
abandoned save for a few scavengers. The Lower Keep 
was built by Orcs, not Elves, and shows all the signs 
of being built by that horrid race — windowless walls, 
endless fetid chambers, and a stench of despair and 
suffering and hatred.
5.	 Inner Gate: The titanic inner gate of Dol Guldur was 
forged — or maybe carved, or even grown — from a 
black substance unlike any metal known to Durin’s 
folk. Perhaps it is black bone, or wood treated with 
some alchemy to be tougher and stronger than steel. 
Sigils inlaid with stolen mithril speak of the doom 
that awaits any who trespass within these walls. The 
Inner Gate can only be opened by those who know the 
password or bear the proper token — forcing it open 
is impossible. During the White Council’s attack on 
the fortress, it was Saruman the White who opened 
the door. How he discerned the password is a mystery 
known only to the Wise. The Gates have remained 
open since then, for they are too heavy to move. 
Should the Necromancer or one of his servants return 
to Dol Guldur, then the first sign of their presence will 
be the closing of the Inner Gate.
6.	 Inner Courtyard: The Inner Courtyard was once the 
garden of the Elvenking. Twelve dead mallorn trees 
stand here in a circle, leafless and skeletal. Six statues 
were raised among them — two near the entrance, 
two at the door leading to the High Keep, and two 
at the Stairs of Woe. Each statue depicts a strange 
bird-headed figure seated on a hideous throne. Their 
jewelled eyes glitter as they watch for intruders. 
The Greatest of the Forests

--- PAGE 122 ---
Rhovanion Region Guide
122
Passing between these statues is extremely difficult, 
requiring a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw. This DC 
rises to 25 if Dol Guldur is occupied and its master 
commands the statues to wakefulness. If the saving 
throw fails, whoever dwells in the fortress is made 
aware of the intrusion, and the companion cannot 
find the willpower to press on unless the hero spends 
Inspiration, in which case they may try again. Should 
the second attempt fail, the hero gains a permanent 
Shadow point and suffers immediately from the 
effects of a Bout of Madness.
7.	 High Keep: The High Keep was home to the 
Necromancer’s most exalted servants and spies. 
Inside, it is a palace, decorated with treasures stolen 
from the North-kingdom of Arnor during the wars 
with Angmar. The White Council searched the High 
Keep after their victory, but found little of note, 
suggesting that the keep was deliberately abandoned 
in advance of their attack. This was the heart of the 
web of spies, informants and agents who served 
Sauron, and the orderly removal of all those records 
means that his plans continue, co-ordinated from 
some other fortress.
8.	 Stairs of Woe: These stairs lead to the Hall of the 
Necromancer. Until the coming of the White Council, 
only the trusted servants of Sauron — and those 
prisoners who Sauron chose to doom personally — 
ever walked these stairs. Every step is wound around 
with spells of terror; for every step, the visitor endures 
a lifetime of pain and suffering. 
Those who climb the stairs must make six DC 15 
Constitution saving throws and six DC 15 Wisdom 
saving throws. A failed Constitution saving throw 
1: The Moathouse 
2: The Dead Moat
3: Outer Courtyard 
4: Lower Keep
5: Inner Gate
6: Inner Courtyard
7: High Keep
8: Stairs of Woe
9: Tower of Spell
10: Tower of the Stars
11: Pits of Dol Guldur
12: Hall of the Necromancer
1
2
3
9
10
8
6
4
7
12
5
11

--- PAGE 123 ---
123
causes 10 (1d20) psychic damage and a failed 
Wisdom saving throw causes the trespasser to gain 2 
(1d4) Shadow points.
9.	 Tower of Spells: From this tower, the Necromancer 
wrought his sorcery. Only Sauron ever entered this 
tower, and no-one knows what lies inside. At times 
in the past, unearthly lights glowed from within, and 
the night air carried strange fell voices that spoke in 
no tongue known in Middle-earth or across the sea. 
Some whisper that Sauron called forth beings from 
beyond the Doors of Night, and summoned things 
unknown.  
10.	Tower of the Stars: This was an observatory, used 
on the few nights when Dol Guldur was not shrouded 
in fog.
11.	Pits of Dol Guldur: Before the Necromancer came, 
the Elvenking built wine cellars and treasure vaults 
beneath his hall, but under Sauron’s direction, the 
underground chambers of Dol Guldur were extended 
a hundred-fold. There is more beneath the Hill than 
above it — endless Orc-warrens, dungeons where 
thousands of prisoners suffered, storerooms and 
barracks and foundries, charnel pits and torture 
rooms, secret passages and hidden chambers. The 
Dungeons run under the sodden moat and out into 
the surrounding swamps, so they are extremely damp 
and fetid. Some regions are flooded; others choked 
with luminescent mushrooms that spit poisonous 
spores and other dangerous fungi.
12.	Hall of the Necromancer: The seat of Sauron in 
Mirkwood. No living man knows what lies beyond the 
threshold of this place. Even the Wizards dared not 
cross its gate — Radagast tried, and stumbled back as 
though Blinded. Saruman raised his staff, and cast 
forth a bright white light, but even that did not pierce 
the terrible darkness within. Still, they could sense 
that the Enemy had fled, like a flapping shadow flying 
East on the wind.
The Greatest of the Forests

--- PAGE 124 ---
Rhovanion Region Guide
124
- new -
adversaries 
“...when it was Bilbo’s turn he would see gleams 
in the darkness round them, and sometimes 
pairs of yellow or red or green eyes would stare 
at him from a little distance...”
Wilderland is a vast region inhabited, or plagued, by a 
great number of creatures. From the green meadows of 
the Vales of Anduin to the depths of Mirkwood, danger 
is never far away from the paths trodden by adventurers. 
This bestiary is divided by the location of these foes and 
whom they serve.
Dangers of the Wild
In the vales of Anduin there are many dangers. While 
some are spawn of the Great Enemy’s creations, they have 
no master other than themselves and their own evil plans.
Ancient Basilisk
Called Sarnlug by the Elves, and Fágwyrm by the 
Northmen, these lizards are said to be cast-offs from 
the Enemy’s earliest attempts to make dragons. Most 
basilisks are as large as boars, but they can grow much 
bigger. Their yellowish bellies drag on the ground as they 
waddle through the forest’s underbrush. Legends persist 
of the dangers of the creature’s poison-laden breath. It is 
said that some among the Wise (such as Elrond Halfelven, 
master of Rivendell) know of an antidote.
Ancient Basilisk 
Medium monstrosity
STR 
15 (+2)
DEX 
8 (-1)
CON 
16 (+3)
INT 
3 (-4)
WIS 
8 (-1)
CHA 
7 (-2)
Armour Class 15 (natural armour)
Hit Points 60 (8d8+24)
Speed 20 ft
Condition Immunities Poisoned
Damage Resistances non-magical bludgeoning and 
slashing
Senses passive Perception 9
Challenge 3 (700 XP)
Hatred (Elves) (Recharge 5-6). The basilisk hates Elves 
and will attack them first. It can spend its bonus action to 
have Advantage on all attacks against them this round.
Tough Hide. The basilisk is resistant to non-magical 
bludgeoning and slashing damage.
Actions
Putrescent Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 
5 ft, one target. Hit: 9 (2d6+2) piercing damage and the 
target must make a DC 13 Constitution saving throw or 
become Poisoned until they take a short rest.
Venomous Breath (Recharge 5-6). The basilisk can 
breathe out a cloud of poison in a 20 foot sphere. Each 
affected target must make a DC 13 Constitution saving 
throw. On a success, the target becomes Poisoned until 
it takes a short rest. On a failure, the target becomes 
Paralysed until it takes a short rest. Paralysed creatures 
must make another DC 13 Constitution saving throw 
at the end of their next turn. On a failure, the creature 
becomes Petrified until treated.
Gallows-weed
A sinister tree-hanging plant, gallows-weed can prove 
dangerous to adventurers exploring marshes or thickets in 
old forests. It coils itself around a victim’s neck like a snake,

--- PAGE 125 ---
125
and then pulls up to strangle him. Gallows-weed tends to 
grow in communities that stretch from tree to tree, and 
several of them are usually encountered at the same time. 
The victims of the gallows-weed are consumed by the plant, 
but treasure or other metal remains can often be found 
amidst their roots, if one is willing to brave the dangers.
Gallows-weed
Medium Plant
STR 
10 (+0)
DEX 
20 (+5)
CON 
12 (+1)
INT 
3 (-4)
WIS 
10 (+0)
CHA 
3 (-5)
Armour Class 15
Hit Points 16 (3d8+3)
Speed 0 ft
Condition Immunities Blinded, Deafened, Frightened
Damage Resistances Bludgeoning, Piercing
Damage Vulnerability Fire
Senses tremorsense 30 ft, passive Perception 10
Challenge 1/2 (100 XP)
Camouflage. Gallows-weed has Advantage on all 
Dexterity (Stealth) checks in wooded terrain.
Actions
Grasping Vines. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 
10 ft, one target. Hit: If the Gallows-weed is not already 
grappling a creature, the target becomes Grappled (Escape 
DC 13). Until the grapple ends, the target is Restrained. 
The Gallows-weed can spend its action to do 7 (1d4+5) 
bludgeoning damage to a creature that it already has 
Grappled.
Grim Hawk
Grim Hawks stand nearly eight feet tall on their spindly 
legs. Their features are a mottled grey-brown colour, and 
they are nearly always mangy and diseased. They cannot 
fly long distances, but stalk through the muddy waters 
and banks of the Great River like monstrous storks. 
Grim Hawks eat fish and smaller birds, as well as the 
worms and other insects that they dig out of the mud 
with their wickedly sharp curved beaks. They also eat 
carrion by placing one clawed foot on the corpse and 
tearing the flesh with their beaks. A hungry Grim Hawk 
can be brave enough to attack an armed man (and a flock 
may surround a group of men). The River-folk hunt Grim 
Hawks using arrows and stones; the birds taste terrible, 
but their beaks and claws are prized as decorations.
Grim Hawk
Medium Beast
STR 
10 (+0)
DEX 
17 (+3)
CON 
13 (+1)
INT 
3 (-4)
WIS 
14 (+2)
CHA 
3 (-5)
Armour Class 13
Hit Points 11 (2d8+2)
Speed 20 ft, fly 40 ft
Skills Perception +4
Senses passive Perception 14
Challenge 1/2 (100 XP)
Pack Tactics. The grim hawk has Advantage on an attack 
roll against a creature if at least one of its allies is within 5 
feet of the creature and that ally isn’t Incapacitated.
Savage Assault. When a grim hawk rolls a natural 18 or 
19 it may use its bonus action to make a single additional 
melee attack against the same opponent.
Actions
Multiattack. The grim hawk makes one attack with its 
beak and one attack with its claw. 
Beak. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 6 (1d6+3) piercing damage.
Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +2 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 2 (1d4) slashing damage.
Reaction
Snake-like Speed (Recharge 5-6). The grim hawk is 
adept at avoiding injury and can use its reaction to halve 
the attack damage on an attack that it is aware of.
New Adversaries

--- PAGE 126 ---
Rhovanion Region Guide
126
Hill-men of Gundabad
When the full light of the morning came no signs of the wolves were to be found, 
and they looked in vain for the bodies of the dead.
These Hill-men are wild warriors of the Black Hills of the Vales of Gundabad. Their 
ancestors served the Witch-king of Angmar, and they were given to the practice 
of sorcery. Today they do not serve the Shadow, but should their old master 
summon them, most of them would readily answer. 
The Hill-men can leave their bodies while sleeping in the form of 
spirit-Wargs, to join the wild wolves in their hunts. 
Hill-man Warrior
Medium Human
STR 
15 (+2)
DEX 
10 (+0)
CON 
12 (+1)
INT 
10 (+0)
WIS 
13 (+1)
CHA 
14 (+2)
Armour Class 12 (Hide Armour)
Hit Points 22 (4d8+4)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Athletics +4, Intimidation +4, Perception +3
Senses passive Perception 13
Languages Orkish, Westron
Challenge 1 (200 XP)
Fear of Fire. Hill-men are fearful of fire. If a torch or other 
flame comes within 10 feet of them, the warrior suffers 
Disadvantage on attack rolls.
Strike Fear (Recharge 5-6). As an action, the warrior 
may cause his eyes to flicker red with rage and he howls 
bestially to chill the hearts of his enemies. Each opponent 
within 30 ft of the warrior must make a DC 14 Wisdom 
saving throw or become Frightened until the end of the 
warrior’s next turn.
Actions
Spear. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 
5 ft or range 20/60 ft, one target. Hit: 5 (1d6+2) piercing 
damage or 6 (1d8+2) piercing damage if used with two 
hands to make a melee attack.
Short Sword. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 5 (1d6+2) piercing damage.

--- PAGE 127 ---
127
Spirit-warg
Medium Apparition
STR 
15 (+2)
DEX 
17 (+3)
CON 
12 (+1)
INT 
10 (+0)
WIS 
13 (+1)
CHA 
14 (+2)
Armour Class 13
Hit Points 16 (3d8+3)
Speed 30 ft
Damage Resistances bludgeoning, piercing and 
slashing from non-magical attacks
Skills Athletics +4, Intimidation +4, Perception +3
Senses passive Perception 13
Challenge 1 (200 XP)
Fear of Fire. Spirit-wargs are fearful of fire. If a torch or 
other flame comes within 10 feet of them, the warg suffers 
Disadvantage on attack rolls.
Great Leap. The spirit-warg is capable of jumping huge 
distances. It may make a special Dash action to go twice 
its normal movement in a single jump. Any opponents in 
melee combat with the spirit-warg when it uses Great Leap 
get opportunity attacks as normal.
Pack Tactics. The spirit-warg has Advantage on an attack 
roll against a creature if at least one of its allies is within 5 
feet of the creature and that ally isn’t Incapacitated.
Actions
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 6 (1d6+3) piercing damage.
Emissaries of the Enemy
The following adversaries are powerful servants of the 
Dark Lord. While he has not declared himself yet, his long 
arm reaches out to Wilderland, arranging the pieces on 
the board for a war long prepared for...
Gorgol, Son of Bolg
The ‘Goblin prince’ is still young as years are reckoned 
by his kind, and has not yet come into the fullness of his 
awful strength. What he lacks in might he makes up in 
cunning. He wields the scimitar of his father, which was 
forged in Carn Dûm by dark smiths and was bound with 
spells by the Witch-king himself. The scimitar is notched 
where Beorn’s claws knocked it from Bolg’s grip, but its 
power is undiminished. 
Gorgol, Son of Bolg
Medium Humanoid (Orc-kind)
STR 
17 (+3)
DEX 
14 (+2)
CON 
16 (+3)
INT 
14 (+2)
WIS 
13 (+1)
CHA 
14 (+2)
Armour Class 14 (Hide Armour)
Hit Points 67 (9d8+27)
Speed 30 ft
Saving Throws Strength +5, Constitution +5, 
Wisdom +3
Skills Intimidation +4, Perception +3, Riddle +4
Senses passive Perception 13
Languages Orkish, Westron
Challenge 4 (1,100 XP)
Dread Heirloom (1/Day). Gorgol can spend his action to 
raise up The Scimitar of Azog in challenge. All Orc-kind in 
the battle gain Advantage until the end of their next turn.
Hatred (Dwarves) (Recharge 5-6). Gorgol hates 
Dwarves and will attack them first. He can spend his 
bonus action to have Advantage on all attacks against 
them this round.
Hideous Toughness (Recharge after a short or long 
rest). Gorgol can endure enormous damage. By spending 
an action brandishing the Scimitar of Azog, he gains a 
pool of 10 (3d6) temporary hit points that last till the end 
of the fight if not removed by combat damage.
Horrible Strength. If Gorgol makes a successful melee 
attack, he may use his bonus action to cause 3 additional 
damage of the same type to the target.
Actions
The Scimitar of Azog. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, 
reach 5 ft, one target. Hit: 12 (2d6+5) magical slashing 
damage. Two-handed.
Reaction
Parry. Gorgol adds 2 to his AC against one melee attack 
that would hit him. To do so, Gorgol must see the attacker 
and be wielding a melee weapon.
New Adversaries

--- PAGE 128 ---
Rhovanion Region Guide
128
Maghaz, Orc-captain
Five years ago, when the White Council attacked 
Dol Guldur, Maghaz was nowhere near the 
citadel. Neither was he leading the charge at 
the Battle of Five Armies.  No, Maghaz let 
younger, stronger Orcs bully their way to 
the front, while he took a lesser position, 
commanding the rear guard at Fenbridge 
Castle. 
He is a wily creature who has learnt how to 
survive in the shadow of Dol Guldur: trust 
no one, never lead openly when you can plot 
in the  dark, obey your masters, and when 
something goes wrong always find someone to 
put the blame upon.
Maghaz, Orc-Captain
Medium Humanoid (Orc-kind)
STR 
15 (+2)
DEX 
14 (+2)
CON 
16 (+3)
INT 
15 (+2)
WIS 
13 (+1)
CHA 
12 (+1)
Armour Class 16 (Orc Mail)
Hit Points 60 (8d8+24)
Speed 30 ft
Saving Throws Constitution +5, Wisdom +3
Skills Intimidation +3, Perception +3
Senses passive Perception 13
Languages Orkish, Black Speech, Westron
Challenge 3 (700 XP)
Bodyguards. Maghaz is always surrounded by 
lesser orcs whose duty it is to protect their leader. 
At least one other orc in his retinue gains the Thrall 
(Maghaz) special reaction ability (see page 137).
Bulky Armour. Maghaz has Disadvantage on 
Dexterity checks.
Coward. When injured, Maghaz suffers Disadvantage on 
all combat rolls.
Hate Sunlight. Maghaz despises the cleansing light of 
the Sun. If he is exposed to direct bright sunlight, he takes 
3 (1d6) psychic damage each round.
Leadership. As a bonus action, Maghaz can command 
a nearby orc other than himself. That orc takes its turn 
immediately after Maghaz. 
Actions
Bent Sword. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 5 (1d6+2) slashing damage.
Spear. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 
5 ft or range 20/60 ft, one target. Hit: 5 (1d6+2) piercing 
damage or 6 (1d8+2) piercing damage if used with two 
hands to make a melee attack.

--- PAGE 129 ---
129
Nagrhaw, Chief of the Wargs
Nagrhaw is a devilishly cunning beast, with a better grasp 
of tactics than most Orc-chieftains. He has the instincts 
of the wolf; he knows when to wait in ambush and when 
to strike, when to harass and when to go for the kill. He 
knows the value of intelligence and informants, and many 
of the meaner creatures of Wilderland — the wolves, the 
weasels, the crows and the serpents — are his spies. He 
is always accompanied by a retinue of Wild Wolves, and 
sometimes Orcs.
Nagrhaw, Chief of the Wargs
Large Monstrosity (Warg-kind)
STR 
16 (+3)
DEX 
20 (+5)
CON 
18 (+4)
INT 
15 (+2)
WIS 
13 (+1)
CHA 
10 (+0)
Armour Class 16 (natural armour)
Hit Points 85 (9d10+36)
Speed 30 ft
Saving Throws Dexterity +8, Wisdom +4
Skills Perception +4, Stealth +8
Senses passive Perception 14
Languages Wargspeech, Westron
Challenge 5 (1,800 XP)
Fear of Fire. Nagrhaw is fearful of fire. If a torch or 
other flame comes within 10 feet of it, the wolf suffers 
Disadvantage on his attack rolls. In addition, Nagrhaw is 
not able to use his Pack Tactics ability. 
Hard Eyed. Nagrhaw is a killer without remorse. He 
scores a critical hit on a 18, 19 or 20 on his attack rolls.
Pack Tactics. The Wolf Leader has Advantage on an 
attack roll against a creature if at least one of the Wolf 
Leader’s allies is within 5 feet of the creature and the ally 
isn’t incapacitated.
Savage Attack. When Nagrhaw scores a critical hit, 
he does an additional 5 (1d10) damage. This die is not 
doubled by the critical hit.
Actions
Multiattack. Nagrhaw makes two attacks: one bite and 
one claw attack.
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 10 (2d6+3) piercing damage. If the target is a 
creature, it must make a DC 13 Strength saving throw or 
be knocked Prone.
Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 11 (1d12+5) piercing damage.
Reaction
Commanding Voice. Nagrhaw promises pain and 
torment to his allies who do not follow his will. He may 
use his reaction when a non-hostile creature, that he 
can see within 30 feet, is about to make an attack roll 
or a saving throw. The target can add a d6 Command 
Die to that roll, provided it can hear and understand the 
message. A creature can benefit from only one Command 
Die at a time, and creatures that possess Commanding 
Voice cannot benefit from this effect.
New Adversaries

--- PAGE 130 ---
Rhovanion Region Guide
130
The New Great Goblin
The self-styled Greatest Goblin is a lumbering, huge Orc, 
consumed by an unquencheable thirst for revenge. He will 
go to any length to bring harm upon the dwellers of the 
Vales of Anduin, and especially the Beornings, but would 
go to greater lengths to preserve his own safety.
The Greatest Goblin
Medium Humanoid (Orc-kind)
STR 
15 (+2)
DEX 
12 (+1)
CON 
13 (+1)
INT 
10 (+0)
WIS 
8 (-1)
CHA 
8 (-1)
Armour Class 18 (Orcish Leathers, Huge Hide Shield)
Hit Points 44 (8d8+8)
Speed 30 ft
Skills History +2, Intimidation +1
Senses passive Perception 9
Languages Orkish, Westron
Challenge 3 (700 XP)
Bulky Armour. The Greatest Goblin has Disadvantage 
on Dexterity checks.
Craven. If the Greatest Goblin starts his turn with 21 
or less hit points, he must make a DC 10 Wisdom 
saving throw. On a failure, he is Frightened and must 
use his Dash or Disengage action to move away from 
any enemies. If movement is impossible, he will take the 
Dodge action instead.
Foul Liquor. The Greatest Goblin carries a flask of 
disgusting yet invigorating brew. As a bonus action he 
may take a swig, regaining 3 (1d6) hit points.
Gimlet Eyed. The Greatest Goblin inflicts +2 damage on 
all damage rolls made at night or underground (see below).
Hatred (Beornings) (Recharge 5-6). The Greatest Goblin 
loathes Beornings. He can use his bonus action to gain 
Advantage on attacks against them this round.
Actions
Multiattack. The Greatest Goblin makes two attacks with 
his hooked axe.
Hooked Axe. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 8 (2d4+3) magical slashing damage or 10 
(2d4+5) slashing damage at night or underground.
Reaction
Disarming Parry. The Greatest Goblin can use his 
reaction to add +2 to his AC against one attack that he 
is aware of as long as he wields a melee weapon. If he 
uses his hooked axe then the attacker must make a DC 
12 Strength check or become disarmed as the curved 
weapon snatches the weapon out of their hands.
Perils of the Forest
Within the vast darkness of Mirkwood are many terrors. 
Some are ancient evils, and few serve the Enemy directly. 
But their foul desires often aid him, despite their seeming 
independence.
The Children of Shelob
Far and wide her lesser broods ... spread from glen to glen, 
... to Dol Guldur and the fastnesses of Mirkwood.
Tauler, Tyulqin and Sarqin are the spawn of Shelob the 
Great, the last child of Ungoliant, the weaver of darkness, 
an ancient evil in spider-form. They hide deep inside 
the Heart of Mirkwood, their domain. Ancient creatures 
themselves, they have a strong care for their hides. If 
they find themselves seriously threatened they will often 
retreat, plotting their revenge for another day.

--- PAGE 131 ---
131
Sarquin, the Mother-of-all
The Spiders of Mirkwood revere Fat Sarquin 
as the Mother-of-All. While she certainly 
didn’t spawn everything that goes on 
eight legs in the forest, she might well 
have given birth to half of them. Sarquin 
is a gigantic, bloated spider-thing, with 
multiple bulbous eyes that glow coldly in 
the dark. 
Sarquin doesn’t usually leave her abode 
above Spiderhollow in the Heart of Mirkwood, 
not even when her Spider servants fail to bring her 
food — in those cases, she stays her appetite on her 
numerous offspring.
Fat Sarquin
Huge Monstrosity
STR 
17 (+3)
DEX 
18 (+4)
CON 
24 (+7)
INT 
14 (+2)
WIS 
13 (+1)
CHA 
8 (-1)
Armour Class 15 (natural armour)
Hit Points 189 (14d12+98)
Speed 20 ft, climb 20 ft
Saving Throws Constitution +11, Wisdom +5
Senses darkvision 60 ft, passive Perception 11
Languages Orkish, Westron
Challenge 11 (7,200 XP)
Countless Children (Lair Action). Sarqin’s spawn are 
never far away. She may use a lair action to summon 3 
(1d6) Attercops, who arrive at the end of her next turn. 
Fear Aura. Any creature hostile to Sarqin that starts its 
turn within 30 feet of her must make a DC 15 Wisdom 
saving throw, unless she is Incapacitated. On a failed 
save, the creature is Frightened until the start of its 
next turn. If a creature’s saving throw is successful, the 
creature is immune to any Great Spider’s Fear Aura for the 
next 24 hours.
Legendary. Sarqin can take one legendary action each 
turn. She may use her Beak, Eightfold Gaze or Web as a 
legendary action.
Spider Climb. Sarqin can climb difficult surfaces, 
including upside down on ceilings, without needing to 
make an ability check. 
Web Sense. While Sarqin is in contact with a web, she 
knows the exact location of any other creature in contact 
with the same web. 
Web Walker. Sarqin ignores movement restrictions 
caused by webbing.
Actions
Beak. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 11 (2d6+4) piercing damage. The target must 
make a DC 16 Constitution saving throw or become 
Paralysed. A target make repeat the saving throw on their 
turn, ending the effect on a success.
Eightfold Gaze. Sarqin can take an action to select a 
target within 20 feet and force that creature to make a DC 
16 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the creature 
gains the Paralysed condition for 1d4 rounds. She may 
then use any of her attacks as a bonus action against the 
Paralysed target. If the creature passes the saving throw it 
is immune to this ability for 24 hours.
Web. Ranged Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, range 30/60 
ft, one Large or smaller creature. Hit: The creature is 
Restrained by webbing. As an action, the Restrained 
creature can make a DC 13 Strength check, escaping 
from the webbing on a success. The effect also ends if 
the webbing is destroyed. The webbing has AC 10, 15 
hit points, vulnerability to fire damage and immunity to 
bludgeoning, poison and psychic damage.
New Adversaries

--- PAGE 132 ---
Rhovanion Region Guide
132
Tauler, the Hunter
Tauler is as large as a small elephant, yet he is 
nimble for his size. He can also be very patient 
and can lay in ambush for weeks, waiting for the 
perfect moment to attack. Not that he fears 
any opponent — his beak is hard as steel, 
and his hide can withstand the edge of the 
sharpest of blades. 
He has feasted on the blood of Elves and 
Men, and intends to do so for a long 
time to come. All of Mirkwood is his 
hunting ground.
Savage Tauler
Huge Monstrosity
STR 
20 (+5)
DEX 
18 (+4)
CON 
22 (+6)
INT 
14 (+2)
WIS 
13 (+1)
CHA 
8 (-1)
Armour Class 17 (natural armour)
Hit Points 137 (11d12+66)
Speed 40 ft, climb 40 ft
Damage Resistances non-magical bludgeoning, 
piercing and slashing
Saving Throws Dexterity + 8, Constitution +10
Skills Perception +5, Stealth +8
Senses darkvision 60 ft, passive Perception 15
Languages Orkish, Westron
Challenge 9 (5,000 XP)
Camouflage. Tauler has Advantage on all Stealth checks 
in wooded terrain.
Spider Climb. Tauler can climb difficult surfaces, 
including upside down on ceilings, without needing to 
make an ability check. 
Actions
Beak. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 12 (2d6+5) piercing damage. The target 
must make a DC 16 Constitution saving throw or be 
Paralysed until they complete a short rest. A target make 
repeat the saving throw on their turn, ending the effect 
on a success.
Stomp. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 10 ft, one 
target. Hit: 26 (6d6+5) bludgeoning damage. The target 
must make a DC 16 Strength saving throw or be thrown 
20 feet and knocked Prone.
Terrorise. Tauler targets up to three intelligent creatures 
he can see within 40 feet. Those targets must succeed on a 
DC 16 Wisdom saving throw or become Frightened until 
the end of his next turn.

--- PAGE 133 ---
133
Tyulqin, the Weaver
Tyulqin spins webs as black as the void between the stars, 
making her lair darker than the pits of Dol Guldur. Her 
malice is so twisted that the minds of mortals are simple 
toys to manipulate with phantoms and illusions. 
She has more of the power of her grandmother than her 
siblings and there are few heroes in Middle-earth who can 
defy the sorcery of this many-legged horror. 
Black Tyulqin
Huge Monstrosity
STR 
19 (+4)
DEX 
25 (+7)
CON 
21 (+5)
INT 
18 (+4)
WIS 
20 (+5)
CHA 
16 (+3)
Armour Class 19 (natural armour)
Hit Points 161 (14d12+70)
Speed 40 ft, climb 40 ft
Damage Resistances non-magical bludgeoning, 
piercing and slashing
Saving Throws Dexterity + 8, Constitution +9, 
Wisdom +9
Skills Perception +9, Shadow-lore +8
Senses blindsight 30 ft, darkvision 60 ft, passive 
Perception 19
Languages Orkish, Westron, Sindarin, Silvan
Challenge 13 (10,000 XP)
Legendary. Sarqin can take two legendary actions each 
turn. She may use her Beak, Ensnare, or Mesmerise 
abilities as legendary actions.
Many Poisons. Tyulqin can use her bonus action to inject 
a poison when she successfully attacks with her beak. She 
may choose from the following effects:
• 
Crazed: The victim is temporarily affected by their 
next Shadow Weakness Flaw until they take a long 
rest.
• 
Despair: The victim is Miserable until they take a 
short rest.
• 
Distraught: The victim is Blinded and Deafened 
until they take a short rest.
• 
Weakened: The victim gains 2 (1d4) levels of 
Exhaustion.
• 
Sleep: The victim must make a DC 17 Constitution 
saving throw or become Unconscious.
Spider Climb. Tyulqin can climb difficult surfaces, 
including upside down on ceilings, without needing to 
make an ability check. 
Web Sense. While Tyulqin is in contact with a web, she 
knows the exact location of any other creature in contact 
with the same web. 
Web Walker. Tyulqin ignores movement restrictions 
caused by webbing.
Webs of Illusion (1/day, Lair Action). Tyulqin can 
enchant her webs to provide a vision that will deceive 
even Elven eyes. If she chooses to use this ability it must 
be on in the first round. Each target must make a DC 17 
Wisdom saving throw or be Surprised. 
Woven from Darkness (1/day, Lair Action). Tyulqin 
can enchant her webs to absorb light itself, plunging 
everything within 30 ft around her into utter darkness. 
Non-magical light cannot penetrate the darkness, and 
creatures with darkvision cannot see into it. Magical light 
from any source can dispel the effect.
Actions
Beak. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 14 (2d6+7) piercing damage.
Ensnare. Ranged Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 10 ft, 
one target. Hit: The target has been caught by Tyulqin’s 
web-line and is Restrained (escape DC 17) by her web.
Mesmerise. Tyulqin may use her action and target one 
creature, who must make a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw. 
On a failed save, the target becomes Charmed until 
Tyulqin leaves the area or attacks the Charmed creature.
New Adversaries

--- PAGE 134 ---
Rhovanion Region Guide
134
Forest Goblins
The Goblins of Mirkwood are wiry, 
pale creatures, mostly inhabiting the caves 
under the Mountains of Mirkwood and haunting the 
ruins of Dol Guldur. Their long limbs and bony hands  are 
surprisingly powerful, a characteristic that many enemies 
discovered too late.
When they leave their underground lairs they smear filth and 
mud over themselves, to better hide in the gloom of the forest. They 
are excellent climbers and trackers, and often clamber through the 
canopy instead of travelling along the ground. They have a special 
terror of Great Spiders, as Forest Goblins are one of the most 
common snacks for a hungry spider.
Forest Goblin
Small Humanoid (Orc-kind)
STR 
15 (+2)
DEX 
17 (+3)
CON 
13 (+1)
INT 
10 (+0)
WIS 
12 (+1)
CHA 
8 (-1)
Armour Class 14 (Orcish Leathers)
Hit Points 13 (3d6+3)
Speed 30 ft, climb 20 ft
Skills Athletics +4, Perception +3, Stealth +5
Senses passive Perception 13
Languages Orkish
Challenge 1/2 (100 XP)
Camouflage. Forest Goblins have Advantage on all 
Stealth checks in wooded terrain.
Hate Sunlight. Forest Goblins despise the Sun. If it is 
exposed to direct bright sunlight, the goblin takes 3 (1d6) 
psychic damage each round.
Horrible Strength. If a Forest Goblin makes a successful 
melee attack, it may use its bonus action to cause 2 
additional damage of the same type to the target.
Mirkwood Dweller (Recharge 5-6). If there are any 
Mirkwood scenery features within 5 ft of the Forest Goblin 
it may use its bonus action to gain half cover. even if that 
scenery feature would not normally provide it.
Actions
Jagged Knife. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 5 (1d4+3) piercing damage.
Stone Spear. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, 
reach 5 ft or range 20/60 ft, one target. Hit: 5 (1d6+2) 
piercing damage or 6 (1d8+2) piercing damage if used 
with two hands to make a melee attack. If the Forest 
Goblin scores a critical hit, the stone head is destroyed in 
the process of doing the extra damage.

--- PAGE 135 ---
135
Hunter Spiders
Hunter Spiders are said to be the spawn of Tauler the 
Hunter and his sister Sarqin. They are large, hairy 
beasts, quicker and stronger and more aggressive 
than the rest of their kin. 
They do not spin webs, but lurk in the 
shadows and under piles of dead leaves 
until their unsuspecting prey comes near.
Hunter Spider
Medium Monstrosity
STR 
15 (+2)
DEX 
17 (+3)
CON 
14 (+2)
INT 
10 (+0)
WIS 
13 (+1)
CHA 
8 (-1)
Armour Class 14 (natural armour)
Hit Points 39 (6d8+12)
Speed 40 ft, climb 40 ft
Skills Perception +3, Stealth +5
Senses darkvision 60 ft, passive Perception 13
Challenge 1 (200 XP)
Camouflage. Hunter Spiders have Advantage on all 
Stealth checks in wooded terrain.
Great Leap. Hunter Spiders are capable of jumping huge 
distances. It may make a special Dash action to go twice 
its normal movement in a single jump. Any opponents in 
melee combat with the spider when it uses this ability get 
opportunity attacks as normal.
Spider Climb. Hunter Spiders can climb difficult 
surfaces, including upside down on ceilings, without 
needing to make an ability check. 
Actions
Beak. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 7 (2d4+2) piercing damage. The target must 
make a DC 13 Constitution saving throw or be Poisoned 
until they complete a short rest. A target may repeat the 
saving throw on their turn, ending the effect on a success.
New Adversaries

--- PAGE 136 ---
Rhovanion Region Guide
136
Marsh-dweller
These horrible hollow-eyed monsters are said to be 
hoarders of treasure. They appear as shambling humanoid 
creatures with clammy pale flesh, like that of a corpse left 
to rot in the water. 
Marsh-dwellers live in foetid swamps far away from 
civilised folk and they have mostly passed into legend and 
old wives’ tales. But the truth is often found in such lore, 
and as the Shadow rises, the marsh-dwellers may leave 
their ancient haunts and trouble the world again.
Marsh-dweller
Medium Humanoid
STR 
12 (+1)
DEX 
15 (+2)
CON 
17 (+3)
INT 
10 (+0)
WIS 
10 (+0)
CHA 
7 (-2)
Armour Class 12
Hit Points 15 (2d8+6)
Speed 20 ft
Damage Immunities Bludgeoning from non-magical 
weapons
Senses darkvision 60 ft, passive Perception 10
Challenge 1/2 (100 XP)
Amphibious. The Marsh-dweller does not need to 
breathe underwater.
Foul Reek. The Marsh-dweller exudes such a horrid stink 
that, as a bonus action, it can force an opponent engaged 
in melee combat with it to make a DC 12 Constitution 
saving throw or acquire the Poisoned condition until the 
end of its next turn.
Actions
Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 6 (1d8+2) slashing damage.
Reaction
Biter. When attacked, the Marsh-dweller can use its 
reaction to make a single bite melee attack against its 
attacker. Melee Weapon Attack: +1 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 5 (2d4) slashing damage.

--- PAGE 137 ---
137
Wild Men of Mirkwood
These men are the descendants of Northmen who fled into 
the deep forests of Mirkwood and became corrupt and 
evil. They forgot all their lore, and now use carved wood 
and chipped stone instead of metal. 
They speak a barbaric tongue that is part a degenerate 
form of the Common Speech and part mimickry of the 
chirps and clicks of the Spiders. 
The Wild Men worship both the Spiders of Mirkwood 
and the Necromancer, hoping that their cruel masters 
will spare them for another year. They have little contact 
with the Woodmen of the Western Eaves, and believe the 
Elves of the Woodland Realm to be horrible cold spirits of 
death.
Wild Man Warrior
Medium Human
STR 
16 (+3)
DEX 
17 (+3)
CON 
14 (+2)
INT 
10 (+0)
WIS 
13 (+1)
CHA 
8 (-1)
Armour Class 13
Hit Points 19 (3d8+6)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Athletics +5, Perception +3
Senses passive Perception 13
Challenge 1/2 (100 XP)
Hatred (Elves) (Recharge 5-6). Wild Men hate and fear 
Elves and will attack them first. The warrior can spend 
his bonus action to have Advantage on all attacks against 
them this round.
Mirkwood Dweller (Recharge 5-6). If there are any 
Mirkwood scenery features within 5 ft of the warrior he 
may use his bonus action to gain half cover. even if that 
scenery feature would not normally provide it.
Actions
Short Bow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, range 
80/320 ft, one target. Hit: 6 (1d6+3) piercing damage.
Stone Spear. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, 
reach 5 ft or range 20/60 ft, one target. Hit: 6 (1d6+3) 
piercing damage or 7 (1d8+3) piercing damage if used 
with two hands to make a melee attack. If the warrior 
scores a critical hit, the stone head is destroyed in the 
process of doing the extra damage.
Reaction
Thrall (Spiders). Wild Men are often the slaves of the 
Great Spiders. You may designate one spider as the 
warrior’s master. If the master is within the warrior’s 
movement speed, the warrior can use his reaction to 
become the target of an attack that would have hit 
his master. If the master is slain, the warrior flees the 
battlefield.
New Adversaries

--- PAGE 138 ---
Rhovanion Region Guide
138
Wood-wights
During the long centuries of the rule of the 
Necromancer, many evil spirits issued from Dol 
Guldur. Some found their way into the burial 
places of the Northmen, others inhabited the 
corpses of lost travellers and victims of the Spiders. 
Those who have seen Wood-wights and lived to 
tell the tale speak fearfully of shambling horrors 
composed of bones, leaf mould and fallen tree 
branches, and skulls that leered out of the darkness.
Wood-wight
Medium Undead
STR 
12 (+1)
DEX 
17 (+3)
CON 
11 (+0)
INT 
10 (+0)
WIS 
12 (+1)
CHA 
10 (+0)
Armour Class 16 (Wraith-like)
Hit Points 45 (10d8)
Speed 30 ft
Damage Resistances: Non-magical bludgeoning, 
piercing and slashing
Skills Stealth +4
Senses darkvision 60 ft, passive Perception 11
Languages Westron
Challenge 4 (1,100 XP)
Denizen of the Dark. The Wood-wight is particularly 
adept at using the environment and shadows to its 
benefit. When it takes the Hide action, it makes a 
Dexterity (Stealth) check and any foes must make 
an opposed Wisdom (Perception) check to track its 
movements.
Stealthy. The Wood-wight may use its bonus action each 
round to Hide.
Wraith-like. The wight is a creature of shadow, sticks 
and bones animated by undying hatred. It has resistance 
to all non-magical weapon damage (see above).
Actions
Horror of the Wood. If encountered in Mirkwood, the 
Wood-wight can use its action to stir the evil forest to 
action. Tree limbs quiver and creak, leaves rustle with 
no wind, all manner of scurrying and slimy things 
scramble about, and the heroes feel the malevolence 
of the ancient wood. Each creature within 30 feet of 
the wight must make a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw. 
Those that fail are Frightened until the end of the 
Wood-wight’s next turn.
Multiattack. The Wood-wight makes three attacks 
with its strangling claws.
Strangling Claws. Melee Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 6 (1d6+3) magical slashing damage.
New Adversaries

--- PAGE 139 ---
139
Index
- index -
A
(New) Adversaries	
124
Aestid		
33
Amfossa the Trapper	
15
Ancient Basilisk	
124
Arciryas, Servant of Saruman	
60
Arnulf the Leofring	
62
Ash		
	
55
B
(The) Back Door	
38
(The) Barrows of the Northmen	
94
(The) Beacon Tower	
98
Beorn	 	
41
(The Enchantment of) Beorn	
42
Beorn as a Patron	
42
Beorn’s House	
46
Beranald, Doorwarden of 
Mountain Hall	
50
Black Tom	
26
Boat-spirits	
11
Bofri, son of Bofur	
93
(Joining the) Brotherhood of Outlaws	
92
(The) Burned Glade	
39
(The Protection of the) Burned Glade	
39
Byrgol		
61
C
(A) Campfire Tale	
21
(The) Carrock	
44
Ceawin the Generous	
114
(The) Children of Shelob	
130
(The) City of the Éothéod	
17
(The) Cleft of Storms	
47
(The) Corpse-woods	
120
(The) Crown of the Elvenking	
85
Cruac the Outlaw	
26
(New) Cultural Virtue: River-blooded	 101
D
Dangers of the Wild	
124
Dark Times	
72
(The) Dark Years	
9
Demon’s Tower (Minas Raug)	
120
Dol Guldur	
120
(The) Dragon of Erebor	
74
Dwarrowhall	
64
(The) Dwimmerhorn	
61
E
Eagles’ Falls	
28
East Anduin Vales	
53
	
Inhabitants	
53
	
Notable Characters	
55
	
Notable Places	
56
	
Wildlife	
53
(The) East Gate	
88
East Middle Vales	
39
	
Inhabitants	
40
	
Notable Characters	
41
	
Notable Places	
44
	
Wildlife	
40
East Nether Vales	
65
	
Inhabitants	
67
	
Notable Characters	
67
	
Notable Places	
68
	
Wildlife	
66
East Upper Vales	
28
	
Inhabitants	
29
	
Notable Characters	
31
	
Notable Places	
34
	
Wildlife	
29
Elements of Darkness	
75
	
No Food	
76
	
No Fresh Air	
75
	
No Hope	
77
	
No Life	
76
	
No Light	
75
	
No Paths	
76
	
No Water	
76
Elements of the Landscape	
12
Elendil’s Camp	
39
(The) Elftower	
57
(The) Elfwood	
34
Emissaries of the Enemy	
127
Emptiness	
12
(The) Enchanted Stream	
80
Ennalda the Spear-Maiden	
44
Erebor & The Watchful Peace	
73
(The) Evil of the Forest	
77
(The) Eyrie	
38
F
Farmann, the March-warden	
22
(Spending a) Fellowship phase
at the Eyrie	
39
(New) Fellowship Phase Undertaking: 
	
Befriend the Beasts	
47
	
Compete on the Field of Heroes	
57
	
Enter Wuduseld	
109
	
Feast in the Great Clearing	
88
	
Gather Firewood in the Elfwood	
34
	
Go Hunting with the Woodmen	
100
	
Guard the Old Ford	
45
	
Hunting Grim Hawks	
49
	
Return to the Carrock	
45
	
Study with the Lampmaker	
89
	
Tame the Steed of the Moon	
16
	
Visit the Market at Trader’s Island	52
	
Visit the Sentinel Oak	
88
Fenbridge Castle	
120
Field of Heroes	
57
Fire and Ice	
73
(The) Ford of the Leofrings	
65
(The) Forest Dragon	
79
(The) Forest Gate	
80
Forest Goblins	
134
Forgotten Treasures	
18
Frár the Beardless	
22
G
Gallows-weed	
124
Gárhild the Fox	
67
(The) Gates of the Elvenking	
87
Gelvira Pot-Stirrer	
44
(The) Ghost of the Forest	
96
Gladden Fields	
57
	
Inhabitants	
58
	
Notable Characters	
60
	
Notable Places	
61
	
Wildlife	
58
Gorgol, son of Bolg	
16, 127
(The) Great Clearing	
88
(The New) Great Goblin	
130
(The) Great Vampire	
97
(The) Greatest of the Forests	
70
(The) Grey Heath	
47
Grey Mountains Narrows	
19
	
Inhabitants	
21
	
Notable Characters	
22
	
Notable Places	
23
	
Wildlife	
20
(The) Greydelve	
24

--- PAGE 140 ---
Rhovanion Region Guide
140
Index
Grim Hawk	
125
Gwina		
111
H
Hag’s Island	
53
Halbrech the Wineseller	
86
Haldir of Lórien	
63
(The) Hall of Ghosts	
115
Hallucinations	
77
Hartfast, son of Hartmut	
51
Heart of Mirkwood	
109
	
Inhabitants	
111
	
Notable Characters	
111
	
Notable Places	
112
	
Wildlife	
110
(The) Hidden House	
18
(The) High Pass	
38
(The) Hill of Skulls	
18
(The) Hill-men of Gundabad	
14, 126
History of Mirkwood	
70
History of the Vales of Anduin	
6
(The) Hoary Mountain	
23
Holes of the Wild Hobbits	
61
(The) Horse-People	
8
How to use the Rhovanion Region Guide	 5
Hunter Spiders	
135
Hwalda, Hill-man Guide	
15
I
Introduction	
4
Ingomer Axebreaker	
103
Isildur’s Field	
68
Isle of Strangling Trees	
46
Iwmud the Goatherd	
56
K
(The) Kingfisher Lord	
27
(The) Kingstone	
68
L
(The) Lady’s Garden	
65
(The) Lampmaker’s House	
88
(A) Land without Kings	
9
(The) Lands of the River	
6
(The) Leofrings	
63
(The) Lieutenant of Dol Guldur	
117
(The) Lonely Giant	
27
(The) Long Barrows	
56
(The) Long Delve	
27
(The) Lord of the Eagles	
35
(The) Lord of the Eagles as a Patron	
37
(The) Lost River	
112
(The) Lost Watchtower	
19
M
Mad With Hunger and Thirst	
78
Mab the Spinner	
25
Maghaz, Orc-Captain	
118, 128
(The) Magic of Radagast	
103
Mansbane	
56
Marsh-dweller	
136
Meeting the Lord of the Eagles	
37
(The) Men of the Anduin Vales	
11
(The) Men of the West	
7
(The) Messenger of Mordor	
115
Mogdred	
118
Mountain Hall	
52
(The) Mountains of Mirkwood	
94
	
Inhabitants	
95
	
Notable Characters	
96
	
Notable Places	
97
	
Wildlife	
95
(The) Mouth of Dust	
34
N
Nagrhaw, Chief of the Wargs	
17, 129
(The) Narrows of the Forest	
113
	
Inhabitants	
114
	
Notable Characters	
114
	
Notable Places	
115
	
Wildlife	
114
(The) New Great Goblin	
37
(The) North Ford	
28
Northern Mirkwood	
78
	
Inhabitants	
79
	
Notable Characters	
79
	
Notable Places	
80
	
Wildlife	
79
(The) Northmen & The Bight	
72
(The) Northmen of Rhovanion	
8
O
(The) Old Dwarf Road	
65
(The) Old Ford	
46
(The) Old Forest Road	
93
(The) Old Oak	
113
Opening the Eyrie as a Sanctuary	
39
Opening the Old Ford as a Sanctuary	 45
Osred the Rider	
37
P
Pale Rider Caves	
57
(The) Parliament of Spiders	
113
(The) Passing of Years	
5
(The) Path of Serpents	
28
Perils of the Forest	
130
(The) Perils of the Stream	
81
(The) Power of the Kingstone	
69
Q
Quarrelling	
77
R
Radagast as a Patron	
102
Radagast the Brown	
101
Recent Years	
11, 75
Regions of Mirkwood	
75
Regions of the Vales of Anduin	
12
(The) Reeking Glooms	
117
Resting in the Refuge	
97
(The) Return of the Nazgûl	
97
Rhosgobel	
104
(The) River-folk of the Anduin	
10
(The) River-maidens	
100
(The) Roaring Falls	
80
Ruins of the Refuge	
97
Running in Panic	
77
S
Sarquin, the Mother-of-all	
131
Savagery	
12
Saviga the Goblin	
32
(The) Sentinel Oak	
87
(The) Shadow of Dol Guldur	
8
Sloth	 	
78
(The) Sorceress of Mirkwood	
118
Sorcery of the Hill-men	
14
Southern Mirkwood	
115
	
Inhabitants	
117
	
Notable Characters	
117
	
Notable Places	
120
	
Wildlife	
117
Spider Ravines	
98
(The) Spider’s Ring	
81
Spirit-warg	
127
Strange Faces in Familiar Lands	
29
Strange Magic	
12

--- PAGE 141 ---
141
Index
(The) Steed of the Moon	
16
Stonehallow	
56
(The Village of) Stonyford	
56
Subjects of the Necromancer	
67
T
Tauler, the Hunter	
132
Tauler, Tyulqin and Sarqin	
112
Tholin the Trader	
23
(King) Thranduil	
84
Thranduil as a Patron	
86
Thranduil’s Halls	
89
(Opening) Thranduil’s Halls as 
a Sanctuary	
87
Thranduil’s Ring	
85
Thunar	
33
(The) Toft	
68
Trader’s Island	
52
Travelling along the Vales of Anduin	
12
Travelling in Mirkwood	
77
Turin the Tinker	
43
Tyrant’s Hill (Amon Bauglir)	
120
Tyulqin, the Weaver	
133
U
(The) Undermountains	
97
V
Valdis		
111
Valderic	
55
Vales of Gundabad	
13
	
Inhabitants	
13
	
Notable Characters	
15
	
Notable Places	
17
	
Wildlife	
13
Vidugalum, Lord of the Toft	
68
Viglar		
32
Viglund	
31
W
(The) Wayward Elves	
86
	
Cultural Heirlooms	
87
	
Cultural Virtues	
86
	
Standard of Living	
86
	
Wayward Elf Traits	
86
Wayward Elves Cultural Heirloom:
Wine of the Dark Mountains	
87
Wayward Elves Cultural Virtue:The 
Call of Mirkwood	
87
(The) Werewolf of Mirkwood	
96
West Anduin Vales	
48
	
Inhabitants	
48
	
Notable Characters	
50
	
Notable Places	
51
	
Wildlife	
48
West Middle Vales	
34
	
Inhabitants	
35
	
Notable Characters	
35
	
Notable Places	
38
	
Wildlife	
35
West Nether Vales	
62
	
Inhabitants	
62
	
Notable Characters	
62
	
Notable Places	
64
	
Wildlife	
62
West Upper Vales	
24
	
Inhabitants	
25
	
Notable Characters	
25
	
Notable Places	
27
	
Wildlife	
25
(The) Western Eaves	
98
	
Inhabitants	
100
	
Notable Characters	
100
	
Notable Places	
104
	
Wildlife	
99
Western Mirkwood	
91
	
Inhabitants	
92
	
Notable Characters	
92
	
Notable Places	
93
	
Wildlife	
91
(The) White Statues	
94
Wild Men of Mirkwood	
137
Wild Hobbits of the Anduin Vales	
58
	
Cultural Heirlooms	
59
	
Cultural Virtues	
59
	
Standard of Living	
59
	
Wild Hobbit Traits	
59
Wild Hobbits of the Anduin Vales Cultural 
Heirloom: Barbed Fishing Spear	
60
Wild Hobbits of the Anduin Vales
Cultural Virtue: Vexing Riddler	
60
(The) Wolfswood	
51
Wood-wights	
138
Woodland Hall	
107
(The) Woodland Realm	
71
The Woodland Realm	
82
	
Inhabitants	
83
	
Notable Characters	
84
	
Notable Places	
87
	
Wildlife	
83
Woodmen of Mountain Hall	
49
	
Cultural Heirlooms	
49
	
Cultural Virtues	
49
	
Standard of Living	
49
	
Woodmen of Mountain Hall Traits	49
Woodmen of Mountain Hall Cultural
Heirloom: Ramhorn	
50
Woodmen of Mountain Hall Cultural
Virtue: Goblin-Hunter	
50
Woodmen-town	
106

--- PAGE 142 ---
TM

--- PAGE 143 ---
The One Ring, Middle-earth, The Hobbit, The Lord of the Rings, and the characters, items, events and places therein are trademarks or registered trademarks 
of The Saul Zaentz Company d/b/a Middle-earth Enterprises and are used under license by Sophisticated Games Ltd and their respective licensees. All rights 
reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, 
photocopying, recording or otherwise, without the prior permission of the publishers. 
The Road Goes Ever On™ is a beautiful collection of 4 large format journey maps for Adventures in Middle-earth, 
that comes with a 32 page supplement packed with setting information, rules and guidance on making the most 
of your journeys.
 
Each beautiful map is double-sided, with one set of player maps, and a set of hexed maps for Loremasters, 
covering known Middle-earth.
The handy supplement includes:
• 
Earning Experience on the road
• 
Maps for campsites in case there’s trouble
• 
Pre-made monster groups to drop into your journeys
• 
Rules on avoiding the Enemy in the Wild
• 
Guidance for creating ruins along the way 
• 
New rules for generating non-player travellers
• 
And more!
 
CB72305 
978-0-85744-322-9
www.cubicle7.co.uk

--- PAGE 144 ---
OPEN GAME LICENSE Version 1.0a 
The following text is the property of Wizards of the Coast, Inc. and is 
Copyright 2000 Wizards of the Coast, Inc ("Wizards"). All Rights Reserved. 
1. Definitions: (a)"Contributors" means the copyright and/or trademark 
owners who have contributed Open Game Content; (b)"Derivative 
Material" means copyrighted material including derivative works 
and translations (including into other computer languages), potation, 
modification, correction, addition, extension, upgrade, improvement, 
compilation, abridgment or other form in which an existing work may 
be recast, transformed or adapted; (c) "Distribute" means to reproduce, 
license, rent, lease, sell, broadcast, publicly display, transmit or otherwise 
distribute; (d)"Open Game Content" means the game mechanic and 
includes the methods, procedures, processes and routines to the extent 
such content does not embody the Product Identity and is an enhancement 
over the prior art and any additional content clearly identified as Open 
Game Content by the Contributor, and means any work covered by this 
License, including translations and derivative works under copyright law, 
but specifically excludes Product Identity. (e) "Product Identity" means 
product and product line names, logos and identifying marks including 
trade dress; artifacts; creatures characters; stories, storylines, plots, 
thematic elements, dialogue, incidents, language, artwork, symbols, 
designs, depictions, likenesses, formats, poses, concepts, themes and 
graphic, photographic and other visual or audio representations; names 
and descriptions of characters, spells, enchantments, personalities, 
teams, personas, likenesses and special abilities; places, locations, 
environments, creatures, equipment, magical or supernatural abilities or 
effects, logos, symbols, or graphic designs; and any other trademark or 
registered trademark clearly identified as Product identity by the owner 
of the Product Identity, and which specifically excludes the Open Game 
Content; (f) "Trademark" means the logos, names, mark, sign, motto, 
designs that are  used by a Contributor to identify itself or its products 
or the associated products contributed to the Open Game License by the 
Contributor (g) "Use", "Used" or "Using" means to use, Distribute, copy, 
edit, format, modify, translate and otherwise create Derivative Material 
of Open Game Content. (h) "You" or "Your" means the licensee in terms of 
this agreement. 
2. The License: This License applies to any Open Game Content that 
contains a notice indicating that the Open Game Content may only be 
Used under and in terms of this License. You must affix such a notice 
to any Open Game Content that you Use. No terms may be added to or 
subtracted from this License except as described by the License itself. No 
other terms or conditions may be applied to any Open Game Content 
distributed using this License. 
3.Offer and Acceptance: By Using the Open Game Content You indicate 
Your acceptance of the terms of this License. 
4. Grant and Consideration: In consideration for agreeing to use this 
License, the Contributors grant You a perpetual, worldwide, royalty free, 
non exclusive license with the exact terms of this License to Use, the Open 
Game Content. 
5.Representation of Authority to Contribute: If You are contributing 
original material as Open Game Content, You represent that Your 
Contributions are Your original creation and/or You have sufficient rights 
to grant the rights conveyed by this License. 
6.Notice of License Copyright: You must update the COPYRIGHT NOTICE 
portion of this License to include the exact text of the COPYRIGHT NOTICE 
of any Open Game Content You are copying, modifying or distributing, 
and You must add the title, the copyright date, and the copyright holder's 
name to the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any original Open Game Content you 
Distribute. 
7. Use of Product Identity: You agree not to Use any Product Identity, 
including as an indication as to compatibility, except as expressly licensed 
in another, independent Agreement with the owner of each element of that 
Product Identity. You agree not to indicate compatibility or co adaptability 
with any Trademark or Registered Trademark in conjunction with a work 
containing Open Game Content except as expressly licensed in another, 
independent Agreement with the owner of such Trademark or Registered 
Trademark. The use of any Product Identity in Open Game Content does 
not constitute a challenge to the ownership of that Product Identity. The 
owner of any Product Identity used in Open Game Content shall retain all 
rights, title and interest in and to that Product Identity. 
8. Identification: If you distribute Open Game Content You must clearly 
indicate which portions of the work that you are distributing are Open 
Game Content. 
9. Updating the License: Wizards or its designated Agents may publish 
updated versions of this License. You may use any authorized version 
of this License to copy, modify and distribute any Open Game Content 
originally distributed under any version of this License. 
10. Copy of this License: You MUST include a copy of this License with 
every copy of the Open Game Content You Distribute. 
11. Use of Contributor Credits: You may not market or advertise the Open 
Game Content using the name of any Contributor unless You have written 
permission from the Contributor to do so. 
12. Inability to Comply: If it is impossible for You to comply with any of the 
terms of this License with respect to some or all of the Open Game Content 
due to statute, judicial order, or governmental regulation then You may 
not Use any Open Game Material so affected. 
13. Termination: This License will terminate automatically if You fail 
to comply with all terms herein and fail to cure such breach within 30 
days of becoming aware of the breach. All sublicenses shall survive the 
termination of this License. 
14. Reformation: If any provision of this License is held to be 
unenforceable, such provision shall be reformed only to the extent 
necessary to make it enforceable. 
15. COPYRIGHT NOTICE 
Open Game License v 1.0a Copyright 2000, Wizards of the Coast, LLC. 
System Reference Document 5.1 Copyright 2016, Wizards of the Coast, 
Inc.; Authors Mike Mearls, Jeremy Crawford, Chris Perkins, Rodney 
Thompson, Peter Lee, James Wyatt, Robert J. Schwalb, Bruce R. Cordell, 
Chris Sims, and Steve Townshend, based on original material by E. Gary 
Gygax and Dave Arneson. 
Adventures in Middle-earth Player’s Guide Copyright 2016 Cubicle 7 
Entertainment Ltd/Sophisticated Games Ltd; Authors: James Brown, Paul 
Butler, Walt Ciechanowksi, Steve Emmott, Gareth Ryder-Hanrahan, Jon 
Hodgson, Shane Ivey, Andrew Kenrick, TS Luikart, Dominic McDowall, 
Francesco Nepitello, James Spahn, Ken Spencer.
Adventures in Middle-earth Loremaster’s Guide Copyright 2017 
Cubicle 7 Entertainment Ltd/Sophisticated Games Ltd; Authors: Walt 
Ciechanowski, Steve Emmott, Jon Hodgson, TS Luikart, Dominic 
McDowall, Francesco Nepitello, David Rea, Jacob Rodgers, Gareth 
Ryder-Hanrahan and Ken Spencer.
Adventures in Middle-earth Rhovanion Region Guide Copyright 2017 
Cubicle 7 Entertainment Ltd/Sophisticated Games Ltd; Authors: Gareth 
Ryder-Hanrahan with Francesco Nepitello.
END OF LICENSE