--- PAGE 1 ---
Take your adventures West of the Misty Mountains with this
guide to the world’s greatest fantasy setting.
TM
TM

--- PAGE 2 ---
Written by Francesco Nepitello with Shane Ivey, Andrew Kenrick, 
Thomas Morwinsky, Jacob Rodgers and James M. Spahn
Additional writing by Amado Angulo and Marco Maggi
Creative Direction by Jon Hodgson
Converted by Jacob Rodgers
Cover by Ralph Horsley
Art by Jon Hodgson, Sam Manley, Jeremy McHugh and Jan Pospíšil
Editor: Andrew Kenrick
Graphic Design and Layout: Paul Bourne
Proofreading: David Rea
Based on The One Ring Roleplaying Game by Francesco Nepitello and Marco Maggi
© Sophisticated Games Ltd 2018     © Cubicle 7 Entertainment Ltd 2018
To find out more about Adventures in Middle-earth, and 
to subscribe to our newsletter, please go to: www.cubicle7.co.uk
Product Identity: The following items are hereby identified as Product Identity, as defined in the Open Game License version 1.0a, Section 1(e), and are not Open Content:
All trademarks, registered trade-marks, proper names (characters, place names, etc.), new rules, classes, items, virtues, backgrounds, places, characters, artwork, 
sidebars, and trade dress. Open Game Content: The Open content in this book includes material taken from the Systems Reference Document. No other portion of this 
work may be reproduced in any form without permission.
Published by Sophisticated Games Ltd, 3 Andersen Court, Newnham Road, Cambridge CB3 9EZ, UK and 
Cubicle 7 Entertainment Ltd,  Suite D3, Unit 4, Gemini House, Hargreaves Road, Groundwell Industrial Estate, 
Swindon, SN25 5AZ, UK
 
 
The One Ring, Middle-earth, The Hobbit, The Lord of the Rings, and the characters, items, events and places therein are trademarks or registered trademarks of The 
Saul Zaentz Company d/b/a Middle-earth Enterprises and are used under license by Sophisticated Games Ltd and their respective licensees. All rights reserved. No 
part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording 
or otherwise, without the prior permission of the publishers. 
Printed in Lithuania
- credits -
2

--- PAGE 3 ---
Introduction	
4
How to use the Rivendell Region Guide	 5
The Passing of Years	
5
Imladris	
6
The Hidden Valley	
6
The Last Homely House	
7
Rivendell Map	
8
The House of Elrond map	
10
Notable Characters	
12
	
Elrond Halfelven	
13
	
Arwen Undómiel	
15
	
Glorfindel	
16
	
Erestor	
17
	
Lindir	
19
	
Damron, the Elven-smith	
19
	
The Elf-lords of Rivendell	
20
	
The White Council	
21
Things to Do While in Rivendell	
22
Staying at the Last Homely House	
22
New Fellowship Phase Undertakings	 23
A History of Eriador	 27
The Realm of Arnor	
27
The Third Age	
28
The Rise of Angmar	
28
Arthedain Stands Alone	
29
The End of Arnor	
29
The Fall of Angmar	
30
The Dúnedain go into Hiding	
31
Rise of the Rangers	
31
The Orc Wars	
32
The Long Winter	
33
Two Centuries of Oblivion	
33
Recent Years	
33
The Regions of 
Eastern Eriador	
34
Elements of the Landscape	
34
Eregion	
34
The Trollshaws	
38
The Coldfells	
41
The Ettenmoors	
44
Mount Gram	
46
Angmar	
50
The South Downs and Weather Hills	 55
The North Downs	
59
The Barrow-downs	
62
Tharbad	
65
Evils of the North	
69
Powerful Adversaries	
69
New Especially Strong Abilities	
69
New Exceptional Troupe Abilities	
70
New Creature Abilities	
70
Concerning the Undead	
72
Walking Dead	
73
Wights	
73
Wraiths	
73
Ghosts	
73
Special Abilities of the Undead	
73
Monsters of Eriador	
75
Dangers of the Wild	
75
Emissaries of the Enemy	
79
The Restless Dead	
82
The Lord of the Nazgûl	
87
Ancient and 
Forgotten Treasures	 90
What is a Hoard?	
90
Magical Treasure Rolls	
91
How to Make Magical Treasure Rolls	 92
Worthless Trinkets	
93
Precious Objects	
95
Not All That 
Glitters...	
97
Magical Treasure Indexes	
97
How to Compile a Magical 
Treasure Index	
97
New Enchanted Qualities	
98
Cursed Items	
99
How to Design a Curse	
100
Examples of Curses	
101
Pre-generated Magical Treasure
Index Sheets	
103
The Eye of Mordor	
110
The Hunt	
110
The Hunt Intensifies	
111
Resetting the Hunt Score	
112
The Veil	
112
The Eye Awareness Check	
113
Revelation Episodes	
113
Examples of Revelation Episodes	
114
High Elves of Rivendell	116
Cultural Virtues 	
118
Cultural Heirlooms	
121
A Barren and Pathless
Country	
122
Journey Event Tables	
123
High Elf of Rivendell Pre-generated 
Character Sheet	
137
Blank Magical Treasure Index Sheets	139
Index	
141
- contents -
3

--- PAGE 4 ---
Rivendell Region Guide
4
- Introduction -
The Rivendell Region Guide takes Adventures in Middle-
earth across the Misty Mountains and into Eriador where 
the Rangers of the North strive to protect the lands of their 
lost kingdom, and the High Elves of Rivendell maintain a 
bastion of their ancient culture.
The first part, Imladris, describes the House of Elrond, 
the hidden refuge of the hardiest adventurers of the Third 
Age, and home to personalities like Glorfindel and Arwen 
Evenstar. The valley of Rivendell offers an invaluable 
sanctuary to those few who can find it, and a number of 
unique undertakings are described herein for a visitor to 
attempt during the Fellowship phase.
A History of Eriador and The Regions of Eastern 
Eriador explore the history and geography of the lands 
of eastern Eriador, from the Greenway in the west to the 
foothills of the Misty Mountains in the east; from Angmar 
in the far north to Tharbad and Eregion in the south. Each 
region is broken down according to the following scheme:
First, the region in general is described, noting its borders 
and its major features. Any scenery that might play a special 
role in combat is noted as well.
Secondly, any important flora or fauna are noted. Eriador 
was once home to ancient kingdoms, but now is desolate 
and haunted. All about are scattered old ruins, and nature 
has been taking over with the passing of centuries. 
Next, the region’s inhabitants, if any, are described. Most 
of Eastern Eriador has been abandoned long ago, and is 
all-but-deserted of civilised folk in the Third Age of Middle-
earth. Its denizens are generally wicked creatures that profit 
from the inhospitable nature of these Lone-lands to hide.
Fourth and fifth come the Notable People and Notable 
Places of the region. As previously stated, anyone who 
lives in the wilds of eastern Eriador is generally a wicked 
creature, or the occasional madman. But there are still 
those out there who have chosen to be there for a reason or 
a cause, and who may help – or hinder! – the companions 
in the course of their adventures.
The Notable Places entries detail locations worthy 
of mention, ancient ruins of historical significance 
or landmarks that heroes are likely to visit in their 
wanderings. As always, everything in this book can be 
either used or ignored by the Loremaster: what exactly 
awaits the Company in Eriador must remain a mystery.
Several new Fellowship phase undertakings are included 
in this chapter, accompanying certain special locations in 
Eriador.
The fourth part, Evils of the North, contains a bestiary 
for Eriador with new dangers of the wild, emissaries of 
the enemy and especial attention paid to undead. In these

--- PAGE 5 ---
5
Introduction
lands, the dead do not rest easily, especially with the Witch-
king walking in the North.
The fifth and sixth sections provide rules to introduce 
Ancient and Forgotten Treasures in the form of Hoards 
and the rules for magical gear are expanded in Not All 
That Glitters… with new properties, cursed items, and 
rules for Magical Treasure Indexes.
The seventh section The Eye of Mordor presents optional 
rules that the Loremaster can use to reflect the troubling 
influence of the Shadow upon the land. Adventurers 
should be wary lest their activities attract the attention of 
the Enemy or simply draw an ill-luck upon themselves that 
will plague all their endeavours.
Next, the High Elves of Rivendell are presented as a 
new culture for use in Adventures in Middle-earth. While 
possessing great power, the growing power of the Shadow 
affects the Firstborn deeply.
Finally, as the Company journeys across A Barren 
and Pathless Country they will chance across many 
strange things. This chapter provides examples for all 
Journey Events and sample meetings with the denizens 
of Eriador.
How to use the Rivendell Region Guide
This supplement serves as a gazetteer to the places of people 
of this part of Middle-earth and is an invaluable source 
of new gaming material that complements Adventures in 
Middle-earth.  It is intended primarily for the Loremaster, 
who can use this material to greatly enhance an ongoing 
campaign.
The new rules presented herein are especially suited to a 
veteran gaming group, counting a number of experienced 
heroes in its Company. Players may be allowed to read a 
few selected parts of this guide, but should generally refrain 
from doing so.
The companion volume to Rivendell Region Guide is 
entitled Eriador Adventures. This supplement contains 
six adventures set in eastern Eriador and based out of 
Rivendell itself. Many of the Loremaster characters and 
locations featured in this guide play key roles in these 
adventures. You don’t need Eriador Adventures to use the 
Rivendell Region Guide, but you do need this supplement to 
play Eriador Adventures.
The Passing of Years
The material presented in the Rivendell Region Guide 
assumes the year is some time after 2951, possibly as far 
into the Tale of Years as the year 2977, the ideal date for 
the conclusion of the Mirkwood Campaign.
For Loremasters who wish to set their games in Eriador to 
be contemporary with the starting date in the core rules 
(2946), note that life has changed little in these lands in 
the past few decades.

--- PAGE 6 ---
Rivendell Region Guide
6
- Imladris - 
“…Imladris was of old the name among the Elves 
of a far northern dale, where Elrond the Halfelven 
dwelt, greatest of lore-masters.”
Travellers coming from the High Pass or travelling east 
to cross it might find themselves marching across a high 
moor, where the wind hisses through the heather. The vast 
slope climbing towards the mountains is broken by many 
narrow ravines and gullies, filled with trees or resounding 
with the crash of falling waters.
If they know their way, or if they are lucky enough, sooner 
or later they will stumble upon a path marked with white 
stones, leading to the edge of a steep fall. Over the edge 
and far below lies a fair valley, cloven by a swift-running 
river rushing in a rocky bed. A twisting flight of steps first 
meanders among tall pine trees, then descends among 
oaks and beech trees, until it reaches the brink of the river, 
where a narrow bridge of stone leads to the “Last Homely 
House east of the Sea”.
The Hidden Valley
The valley known as Imladris (Elvish for “deep valley of 
the cleft”) is one of the many gullies and ravines dug by the 
waters of the river Bruinen, the Loudwater, as they tumble 
down from the Misty Mountains to the east. Elrond the 
Halfelven came here in another age of the world, looking 
for a refuge for the High Elves of Eregion fleeing from the 
destruction of their land.
For centuries, the Elves dwelt in peace in the hidden valleys 
of the region, but their Lord always kept a watchful eye on 
the manoeuvres of the Enemy. The hosts assembled for the 
Last Alliance of Elves and Men mustered in Imladris before 
they were ready to move against Mordor, and Elrond was 
always a steadfast ally of the Dúnedain of Arnor in their 
wars against Angmar.
In the Third Age, Elrond chose to give protection to the 
Heirs of Isildur, and since the end of the North-kingdom 
the sons of the Chieftains of the Dúnedain have been 
raised in Rivendell, and the heirlooms of their house left 
in the keeping of its Master.
But five thousand years are a long time even for the 
Elves, and the sorrows they endured were many. With 
the passing of the centuries the number of the Elvenfolk 
of Rivendell dwindled, as more and more left Imladris 
to return West over the Great Sea. The house of Elrond 
became a sanctuary for the weary and the oppressed, and 
a safe haven where the memory of all that had been fair 
could be preserved from the injuries of time.

--- PAGE 7 ---
7
All those who are in grave need of good counsel or 
protection come looking for the Last Homely House. But 
the path to Rivendell is not for everyone to find (see above).
The Last Homely House
The House of Elrond itself is a large mansion with many 
halls, pillared porches and comfortable rooms for guests. 
Several outbuildings are connected to the main house 
bycovered walkways and winding paths, and gardens and 
terraces open above the steep bank of the river. Bells ring 
to summon the guests of Elrond to the Great Hall when 
meals are served, or to signal the beginning of important 
gatherings.
The Front Porch
The front porch is a vast portico, large enough to shelter 
many horses, should visitors be in need of haste. It is 
adorned with a silver fountain in the shape of a slender 
tree drooping over a marble basin. Many stained glass 
windows open on the porch, at both sides of the front 
doors of the House of Elrond.
The wide wooden doors are solidly built using wood 
from a single holly tree. Their white, smooth panels 
appear devoid of any decoration, but are actually set with 
hundreds of tiny white beryls, cunningly cut thousands of 
years ago by the jewel-smiths of Eregion; the small stones 
glitter with innumerable sparkles when they reflect and 
multiply a source of light.
Imladris
Finding Rivendell
It was not so easy as it sounds to find the Last Homely 
House.
Adventurers attempting to enter Rivendell without leave 
or invitation from Elrond and who lack an appropriate 
guide will find it very difficult to find the right path. 
To an inexperienced eye, the landscape appears devoid of 
any useful landmarks, and even a veteran traveller will 
be confused by the nondescript quality of the territory.
While Rivendell is certainly a remote place, the reasons 
for such travelling difficulties are not immediately 
apparent. In truth, Imladris is a secret valley, hidden to 
the eye of the Enemy by the power of its Master, and the 
Elven Ring he wears.
When a journeying company approaches Rivendell, the 
Guide must pass a check to find the path marked with 
white stones. If the Guide of the company is an Elf, 
possesses the Elf-friend title or is at least a 4th level 
hero, then he needs only to succeed at a DC 15 Wisdom 
(Survival) check. Otherwise, the Guide uncovers the 
proper path only by passing a DC 30 Survival check 
instead.
The Guide may attempt the Survival check once a day. 
The first failure has no impact, but any additional 
failures cause each member of the Company to gain a level 
of Exhaustion as the companions search amidst unexpected 
narrow valleys, gullies and dark ravines and dangerous 
bogs that at first seem green and pleasant places.
n
n
n
a
c
Rivendell
The Angle
E
Castle Hill 
E
The Troll-Hole 
E
E
The Refuge of the 
Dúnedain
Cairn of the Crag-king
E

--- PAGE 8 ---
Rivendell Region Guide
8

--- PAGE 9 ---
9
The doors open on a corridor that leads to the Entrance 
Hall and to the two great halls of the House of Elrond to 
the left and right (to the right is the Great Hall, while to the 
left is the Hall of Fire). There are no guards set to watch the 
front doors – no enemy may enter Rivendell without the 
Master of the house being aware of it.
Entrance Hall
The wide opening facing the threshold of the House of 
Elrond reveals the magnificence of its Entrance Hall: a 
long, high passage leading across the building to the 
East Porch and the gardens beyond. It is paved with large 
flagstones quarried from the Misty Mountains and is 
illuminated by lanterns hanging from the carved beams 
crossing the vaulted ceiling. The central lantern, by far 
the largest, was made by the Dwarves of Moria, and its 
reddish light makes the passage look like it’s dug deep 
underground.
Passages open to the left and right, and two flights of 
stairs lead to the upper floors. Along the walls of the hall 
hang the arms of the household of Elrond, together with 
many banners, flags and pennants, relics from a time 
when Elrond was the herald of Gil-galad and marched
with his host.
The Great Hall
The main hall of Elrond’s house is found to the right side 
of the building, and it is a high room more than three 
times as long as it is wide. The hall is entered through a 
screens passage, leading from the entrance corridor. The 
high table stands upon a dais, at the opposite end of the 
hall, and two long tables are placed perpendicular to it, 
to the sides of the great hearth that opens in the middle 
of the hall. Above the screens passage is a balcony, where 
Elvish minstrels play their sweet music.
Tall stained glass windows line the side of the hall facing 
south, with the largest and most decorated one opening 
above the high table. A vestibule leads to the terraces 
outside, while the doors to the left open on the kitchen 
and pantry.
When meals are served or guests are received, Elrond 
sits on a great chair at the right end of the high table. He 
usually invites his most distinguished guests to sit to his 
right and left sides. But the place of honour in the middle 
of the high table is reserved for someone else: against 
the tapestry hanging upon the east wall is a chair placed 
under a canopy, and there used to sit Celebrían, daughter 
of Galadriel and wife of Elrond, before she departed over 
the Sea. Today, the chair is reserved for Arwen, their 
daughter, when she resides in Rivendell with her father.
The woven cloth set upon the wall above the high table 
shows an Elven ship sailing into the High Sea, heading 
West. The craft of its makers is such that whoever looks at 
the tapestry experiences something different, depending 
on the wisdom of the viewer: some feel a sea-breeze gently 
blowing, some smell a sweet fragrance on the air, or hear 
the sound of singing as if it came over the water; others 
swear they can see distant white shores appear over the 
horizon, beyond the rolling waves…
The Hall of Fire
The Hall of Fire is as wide as the great hall of Elrond, but 
it is mostly empty, without a screens passage, nor tables 
or dais. On most days, the only source of light is a bright 
fire burning in a great hearth between two rows of carven 
pillars. The fire is fed all year round, and guests of Elrond 
come here to find comfort and peace, as merely being in 
the Hall of Fire seems like a cure for the spirit.
On high days the hall comes to life with the sound of many 
fair voices. Elvish minstrels play the songs they spent 
decades perfecting, and poems and tales of distant ages 
of the world are recounted for evenings on end. 
Other folks fall easily under the spell of the Hall of Fire, 
and may find themselves spending many evenings sitting 
and thinking, or looking for (and finding!) the right words 
for a new poem or a song. And if they are skilful enough, 
or just lucky, the Elves might even recite their poems or 
sing their songs.
The Eastern Porch
The eastern porch opens on the high garden overlooking 
the banks of the mountain stream. Several paths start 
from here and follow the course of the loud-flowing 
Bruinen towards the mountains, or wind up to the left, in 
the direction of the pine-woods to the north of the house.
The bubbling of the falling water mingles ever with the 
sound of music being played somewhere in the house of 
Elrond. 
Imladris

--- PAGE 10 ---
Rivendell Region Guide
10

--- PAGE 11 ---
11
Imladris

--- PAGE 12 ---
Rivendell Region Guide
12
In the warmer months of the year, but even as late as 
October, the Master of Rivendell gathers his friends and 
guests here in the eastern porch, to enjoy the fresh air and 
the singing of birds and the rustling of leaves. Important 
councils and debates are always held here, as Elrond 
finds the open air to be most congenial to the discussion 
of weighty concerns.
Upper Floors
Stairs lead from the ground floor to the upper floors. Here 
are found the private quarters of the Lord of Rivendell, 
those of his family members and of the most prominent 
members of his household. Several private rooms of 
differing size are reserved for guests. Most rooms have 
one or more windows and flat ceilings crossed by dark 
wooden beams, carved with ornamental motifs.
On the uppermost floor is housed a small dovecote, with 
domesticated pigeons, doves and other small birds. They 
are sometimes used as carriers of messages by Elrond, 
and are personally trained and attended by him.
The Upper Solar
Guests of Elrond also have access to a quiet solar, a large 
room facing south; here, they can comfortably sit to read 
and write at their leisure, or play a game using the marble 
chessboard with wooden pieces placed in front of one of 
the largest windows. The chess set was crafted in Númenor, 
and was brought to Rivendell by Elendil as a gift to Master 
Elrond. It is said that Gil-galad and the High King of the 
Dúnedain played many games on this chessboard, as they 
prepared for the War of the Last Alliance.
Maps & Books of Lore
Even if much of the knowledge and traditions of the Elves 
is preserved in songs and tales by their minstrels and lore-
masters, the Lord of Rivendell keeps many “storied and 
figured maps and books of lore” in his house. Precious 
manuscripts can be found in his private quarters, in some 
rooms for guests, in the solar, and in a secret room whose 
door can be opened only using a key that Elrond always 
keeps with himself. The collection of Elrond is a veritable 
wealth of knowledge, unparalleled in these corners of the 
world. But this body of wisdom mainly concerns the deeds 
of the Elves in the Elder Days, and as such it is written in 
scripts and tongues that are dark even to the most learned 
of scholars not belonging to the Firstborn.
One day will come when someone will endeavour to 
translate those stories, and to make available the lore 
of Rivendell outside of its boundaries; it will be a work 
of great skill and learning, one that will take years to 
complete and fill many volumes…
Vault
A vast complex of underground chambers extend beneath 
the House of Elrond. There are many cellars for the storing 
and ageing of liquors and wine, and vast pantries for the 
keeping of food.
Deeper underground lie crypts where many precious and 
worthy things saved from the ruin of Eregion are kept 
hidden. These treasures are secreted behind doors sealed 
with locks devised by the most cunning smiths of the 
Eldar. Only Lindir, the butler of Elrond, knows the secret 
of their opening, and keeps a record of what lies there and 
where all the underground passages lead.
Outbuildings
The valley of Imladris has given refuge to the survivors of 
an entire folk and have seen the mustering of the greatest 
host of Elves and Men since the breaking of Thangorodrim. 
Many fields, vineyards and orchards dot the landscape, 
and several buildings stand close to the House of Elrond. 
More lie hidden in the nearby dales, the remnants of the 
many dwellings and settlements that once attended to the 
needs of a much greater number of inhabitants.
Among the outbuildings is the distillery used by Erestor, 
Damron’s smithy, an infirmary with adjoining baths, 
a cloister, a garner, several mills and stables, and an 
armoury and training ground.
Notable Characters
The Last Homely House is home to a great number of 
important personalities. The household of the Master of 
Imladris counts many Elf-lords of great renown, and since 
the time of Aranarth, son of Arvedui and first Chieftain 
of the Dúnedain, the Heirs of Elendil have been raised in 
Rivendell, to better defend and preserve the lineage of the 
kings of the Northern Realm. In the Hall of Fire, many 
adventurers and wanderers can be found resting from 
their toil, as guests of Elrond.

--- PAGE 13 ---
13
The Errantries of the King 
(2957-2981)
In the year 2951, a boy of 20 years named Estel 
receives from Elrond the ring of Barahir. For the first 
time, the Master of Imladris calls him with his true 
name, Aragorn, and reveals to him his lineage as the 
Heir of Isildur. (Up to that day, Aragorn had been 
raised by Elrond as if he were his own son).
The next day, Aragorn meets Arwen in the woods of 
Rivendell, recently returned from the land of Galadriel 
and Celeborn. From that fateful moment, Aragorn 
is in love with Arwen, daughter of Elrond. After the 
encounter, Aragorn will not see her again for almost 
thirty years, a brief spell for the long-lived Elves, but 
enough for a Man to become the hardiest and wisest 
of his time.
From the year 2957 until 2980 Aragorn travels far 
into the East and South, riding with the Riders of 
Rohan and fighting for Gondor. Companions visiting 
Rivendell may have a chance to meet him only if 
they enter the house of Elrond before the beginning 
of his journeys, or after his return. In the intervening 
years, heroes in Rivendell may hear news of his deeds, 
but only if they have gained the trust of Elrond, his 
daughter, or that of another member of the Wise.
Elrond Halfelven
"…my memory reaches back even to the Elder Days. 
Eärendil was my sire, who was born in Gondolin before its 
fall; and my mother was Elwing, daughter of Dior, son of 
Lúthien of Doriath. I have seen three ages in the West of 
the world, and many defeats, and many fruitless victories.".
Elrond, the Master of Rivendell, has lived in Middle-earth 
for more than six thousand years and has dwelt in Imladris 
since its foundation in the Second Age. He is called the 
‘Halfelven’, as in his blood are mingled the lineages of the 
noblest houses of Men and High Elves alike. At the end of 
the First Age he was given the choice of which kindred he 
would belong, and Elrond chose to be of Elven-kind.
In the year 109 of the Third Age Elrond married Celebrían, 
daughter of Galadriel and Celeborn. She bore him three 
children: Elladan, Elrohir and Arwen.
More than four hundred years ago, Celebrían left Middle-
earth never to return. She had suffered torment at the 
hands of the Orcs, after they seized her as she journeyed 
across the Misty Mountains. The healing arts of Elrond 
healed her body, but could do nothing for her wounded 
spirit, and she sailed West.
Imladris

--- PAGE 14 ---
Rivendell Region Guide
14
When Celebrían said her last farewell to Imladris, Elrond 
saw in her eyes the fate of the Elder Kindred still dwelling 
in Middle-earth – to fade, or depart. From that day, Elrond 
has redoubled his efforts in guiding others, providing 
advice and refuge to those who are lost, and attempting 
always to heal the hurts of the world at the best of his 
powers.
Meeting the Master of the Last Homely House
The Lore-master of Imladris appears as neither old nor 
young. In his countenance is combined the wisdom of 
a king and the vigour of a strong warrior. He wears a 
circlet of silver upon his dark hair, and in his eyes are the 
memories of years uncounted.
When at home, Elrond can often be encountered in the 
eastern porch, discussing important matters with a guest, 
or playing an ancient tune on his silver harp in the Hall 
of Fire.
Elrond doesn’t leave the valley of Rivendell often, as he 
has many duties to attend. However, he is likely to be well 
informed about his visitors and perhaps knows more of 
their errand than even they do… 
Motivation: I am one of the guardians of Middle-earth 
and I lay upon myself the solemn oath of aiding all who 
would protect it from the Shadow.
Expectations: +1 if the Company brings news to Imladris 
– Elrond knows much but is always happy to learn more; 
+2 if the heroes have a member or ally of the White Council 
as a Patron; -1 if they ask Elrond to make decisions on 
their behalf – he is a counsellor and lore-master but not a 
leader of Men.
Elrond as a Patron
Since the founding of Imladris, Elrond has been preparing 
for the coming war. He was there when Isildur failed 
Elrond, Master of Rivendell
Medium Elf
STR 
17 (+3)
DEX 
16 (+3)
CON 
12 (+1)
INT 
20 (+5)
WIS 
19 (+4)
CHA 
17 (+3)
Armour Class 17 (Elven-hauberk, see below)
Hit Points 110 (20d8+20)
Speed 30 ft
Saving Throws Intelligence +9, Wisdom +8
Skills History +9, Insight +8, Lore +13, Medicine +12, 
Traditions +9
Senses passive Perception 14
Languages Quenya, Sindarin, Westron
Challenge 12 (8,400 XP)
Elven-hauberk. If Elrond ever went to war, he would 
wear the armour that he bore as Gil-galad’s herald, 
a hauberk crafted by Damron the smith himself. It is 
so cunningly made that Elrond adds his full Dexterity 
modifier to his Armour Class.
Leader of Imladris (Lair Action). If Elrond is near 
Rivendell, he may use a Lair Action to summon an 
Elf-Lord (Loremaster’s Guide, page 77) to aid him. The Elf-
Lord arrives at the end of Elrond’s next turn.
Legendary. Elrond may take two legendary actions each 
turn. Each legendary action allows him to either use his 
Foresight ability without using his reaction, attack with 
his Spear of the Last Alliance or use his Hands of the 
Healer ability.
The Ring of Air. Elrond can use his bonus action to 
interact with something in the environment at range (for 
example an old tree might suddenly tumble down, or a 
stream temporarily swell to a torrent when an enemy 
crosses it) to create combat scenery. Or he may cloak an 
ally with the ring’s magic. That ally gains a +4 bonus to 
their AC until the end of Elrond’s next turn.
Actions
Multiattack. Elrond can make two attacks with his 
Spear of the Last Alliance.
Spear of the Last Alliance. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 
to hit, reach 5 ft, one target. Hit: 9 (1d12+3) piercing 
damage. On a hit, the Elf-Lord can use his bonus action to 
make another attack at another target within reach.
Hands of the Healer. In combat, Elrond can use his 
action to restore 8 (1d8+4) hit points to a creature within 
5 feet of him. Outside of combat he can spend 10 minutes 
with a creature to remove a condition. He may also spend 
10 minutes with a creature to restore all of its hit points. If 
he does so, he cannot use this ability again until he takes 
a short or long rest.
Reaction
Foresight. Elrond is gifted with the ability to perceive 
much that is hidden from others. He may use his reaction 
to add 4 to his AC against one melee attack that would hit 
him. He does not need to see the attacker.

--- PAGE 15 ---
15
to destroy Sauron once and for all, and he has been 
expecting the return of the Shadow ever since. He is one of 
Sauron’s chief foes, and he has the gift of foresight. If the 
companions go to Elrond for advice, he will help them in 
a measure that is proportioned to their willingness to fight 
the Enemy.
Whoever has been granted access to Rivendell may meet 
Elrond, but he has no time for idle talk – someone who 
entered the valley for nothing more than expedience will 
find that Elrond doesn’t entertain guests indefinitely. 
Conversely, if he deems an appeal to be of appropriate 
consequence, he will take action, either granting refuge 
or direct help. Elrond is a master of healing and one of 
the Wise of Middle-earth, and in his household are Elven-
lords of great power.
Vilya, the Ring of Air
Elrond is the guardian of Vilya, one of the three 
Rings of Power created by Celebrimbor of Eregion. 
The Ring of Air was entrusted to his keeping by Gil-
galad, the High King of Lindon, and Elrond has kept 
it hidden and untouched for centuries. For as long as 
the Ruling Ring was in the hand of the Dark Lord 
Sauron, the Elven Rings were under his dominion.
In the days of Isildur, the One Ring finally passed out 
of all knowledge. The Three were released from the 
grasp of the Shadow, and Elrond began using the Blue 
Ring for the safety of the sanctuary of Rivendell and 
the preservation of its patrimony of peace and ancient 
wisdom. Thanks to the judgement of Master Elrond 
and the power of the Ring, Imladris is unconquered to 
this day, an untroubled island amidst many perils.
If you have expanded your vision of Middle-earth with 
OGL spells, then amid its powers it allows the wielder 
to cast any abjuration, divination or illusion spell 
listed on page 145 of the Loremaster’s Guide. These 
spells are cast as rituals (even if the spell does not have 
the ritual tag Vilya allows it to be cast as a ritual).
Arwen Undómiel
Young she was and yet not so. The braids of her dark hair 
were touched by no frost; her white arms and clear face were 
flawless and smooth, and the light of stars was in her bright 
eyes, grey as a cloudless night; yet queenly she looked, and 
thought and knowledge were in her glance, as of one who has 
known many things that the years bring.
Arwen is the daughter of Elrond, a kinship that her looks 
betray so evidently that whoever sets his eyes on her 
can guess it. Her mother was Celebrían, the daughter of 
Galadriel and Celeborn of Lórien.
Imladris

--- PAGE 16 ---
Rivendell Region Guide
16
Dark of hair, Arwen has the bearing of a queen, and a 
beauty that can be only that of someone who belongs to the 
Fair Folk: young, and yet betraying the wisdom accumulated 
in many years. Those who have seen her and who are 
wise in Elven-lore say that in the daughter of Elrond lives 
the likeness of Lúthien, the Nightingale of Doriath, whose 
beauty was said to be as the dawn in spring.
Arwen was born in Rivendell, and she has spent much of 
her life in the land of her father, but she often leaves to 
go and visit her mother’s folk in Lórien, on the other side 
of the Misty Mountains. When she travels, she is always 
escorted by her brothers, Elladan and Elrohir. When she 
is in Rivendell she can be seen sitting at her father’s table, 
or walking in the surrounding gardens.
Motivation: The Shadow grows darker with every passing 
year, and the peoples of Middle-earth are estranged. I seek 
for the hope that will unite them again.
Expectations: +1 if the heroes bring news of the defeat 
of the Enemy’s agents or an alliance between the Free 
Peoples; +1 if the heroes have one or more Dúnedain 
among the Company, Arwen honours the kinship between 
the leaders of the Rangers and the household of Imladris; 
-2 if the heroes do not have the proper reverence for the 
Gift of Men (if they dishonour the dead or show jealousy 
of the First-born).
Seeing Arwen
Arwen turned towards him, and the light of her eyes 
fell on him from afar and pierced his heart.
Mortal companions who see Arwen for the first time 
have never seen nor imagined that such grace could be 
found in a living thing. To behold her strengthens the 
heart, as it confirms that there is still much in Middle-
earth that is fair, and that it is worth fighting for.
When heroes see Arwen for the first time, they receive 
Inspiration immediately. Also, they can remember 
the wisdom behind Undómiel’s eyes and once during 
the following Adventuring phase gain Inspiration 
automatically.
Glorfindel
Glorfindel was tall and straight; his hair was of shining 
gold, his face fair and young and fearless and full of joy; 
his eyes were bright and keen, and his voice like music; on 
his brow sat wisdom, and in his hand was strength.
Glorfindel is an Elf-lord of a house of princes. He sits at 
the right hand of Elrond, and is his chosen lieutenant and 
herald. He has fought in all the wars that have seen the 
involvement of the House of Imladris. He was at the Battle 
of Fornost leading the forces of Rivendell, and faced the 
Witch-king of Angmar on the field. For indeed he is one 
of the mighty of the Firstborn, Elven-wise and possessing 
a power to withstand the might of Sauron’s most terrible 
servants.
But it is not his fate to go and seek out the Enemy: Glorfindel 
is the appointed defender of the valley of Imladris, bound 
to protect at all costs the secrecy of the House of Elrond 
and the safety of all those who dwell there. For this reason, 
Glorfindel does not leave Rivendell lightly, but only on 
errands of the utmost importance. He leaves the patrolling 
of the lands outside Rivendell to the Rangers of the North 
and to the sons of Elrond.

--- PAGE 17 ---
17
When sent out of Rivendell on a mission Glorfindel rides 
alone, on a great white horse named Asfaloth. A magnificent 
beast, Asfaloth can ride faster than any horse, and obeys 
all commands imparted to him by Glorfindel. He may be 
told to carry a rider to a destination, whether the rider 
knows the way there or not, and to keep them safely on his 
back, regardless of how fast they are riding.
Glorfindel
Medium Elf
STR 
18 (+4)
DEX 
16 (+3)
CON 
20 (+5)
INT 
16 (+3)
WIS 
18 (+4)
CHA 
15 (+2)
Armour Class 18 (Elven-mail, Shield)
Hit Points 171 (18d8+90)
Speed 30 ft
Saving Throws Dexterity +8, Constitution +10
Skills Athletics +9, History +8, Perception +9, 
Performance +7, Shadow-lore +8
Senses passive Perception 19
Languages Quenya, Sindarin, Westron
Challenge 15 (13,000 XP)
Elven-mail. Glorfindel wears a shirt of mail that was 
forged in Gondolin, for the wars of another Age.
Protector of Imladris (Lair Action). If Glorfindel is 
within sight of Rivendell, he may regain 10 (3d6) hit points 
as a lair action.
Legendary. Glorfindel may take two legendary actions 
each turn. Each legendary action allows him to either use 
either his Parry or Light of the Blessed Realm abilities 
without using his reaction or attack with his Sword of the 
Eldar.
Actions
Multiattack. Glorfindel can make three attacks with his 
Sword of the Eldar.
Sword of the Eldar. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, 
reach 5 ft, one target. Hit: 11 (1d8+7) magical slashing 
damage or 12 (1d10+7) magical slashing damage if 
wielded with two hands.
Reaction
Hallowed Servant. When Glorfindel would be reduced 
to 0 hit points by a damage source, he may use his 
reaction to add 21 (6d6) temporary hit points.
Light of the Blessed Realm. Within Glorfindel resides 
the power to defy the servants of the Enemy. When an 
enemy uses an ability that requires an action he may use 
his reaction to negate that ability.
Parry. Glorfindel adds 5 to his AC against one melee 
attack that would hit him. To do so, he must see the 
attacker and be wielding a melee weapon.
Asfaloth
Large Beast (Destrier)
STR 
18 (+4)
DEX 
14 (+2)
CON 
15 (+2)
INT 
8 (-1)
WIS 
12 (+1)
CHA 
9 (-1)
Armour Class 12
Hit Points 45 (6d10+12)
Speed 70 ft
Senses passive Perception 11
Challenge 2 (450 XP)
Trained Warhorse. In addition to the normal actions 
of a controlled mount, a rider may instruct Asfaloth to 
Charge or Attack with his Hooves.
Elven Steed. If a rider is forced to make any saving 
throw while mounted on Asfaloth, they automatically 
have Advantage on that saving throw. If Asfaloth is 
uncontrolled he will still follow the instructions of 
Glorfindel.
Trample. If Asfaloth moves at least 20 feet straight 
towards a creature and then successfully strikes that 
creature with his Hooves then the target must make a 
DC 14 Strength saving throw or be knocked Prone. If the 
target is knocked Prone then Asfaloth may use his bonus 
action to make another Hooves attack.
Actions
Hooves. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 11 (2d6+4) bludgeoning damage. If Asfaloth 
bears a rider when he attacks, the rider must make a DC 
5 Dexterity saving throw to remain mounted.
Charge. When Asfaloth takes this action, he gains 
additional movement equal to his speed. He must expend 
all of his movement this round. A rider that takes the 
Attack action this turn gains +4 to their damage rolls.
Erestor
Erestor is probably the most prominent individual in 
the household of Elrond, second only to Glorfindel. 
He is counted among the wise, and he is the chief of 
Elrond’s personal counsellors. He is also a scribe and an 
illuminator of manuscripts – many books and parchments 
kept in Rivendell have been written and decorated by the 
skilled hand of Erestor.
But his cunning is not limited to that. In a small building 
filled with glass vessels of many shapes and sizes, Erestor 
prepares miruvor, the precious cordial of Imladris. The 
wise Elf distils it using more than one hundred herbs and 
Imladris

--- PAGE 18 ---
Rivendell Region Guide
18
plants, in a formula known only to himself. The counsellor 
of Elrond leaves the House of his Master twice a year for 
several days, when he goes about the mountain dales to 
search for the ingredients he needs.
Actually, Erestor concocts several types of Miruvor, and 
is always eager to experiment with new substances and 
processes. The most popular is his travelling cordial, 
a strong liquor to be drunk in small sips and known to 
invigorate the heart, body and spirit. 
Another is a medicinal tonic used by Elrond when his 
skills as a healer are required. This version of the cordial 
requires a more complex preparation, and a much longer 
ageing time. Another simpler version of the drink is a less 
potent spirit, served at the high table in the Great Hall at 
the end of most meals.
Some among the Elves of Rivendell say that all versions of 
the cordial of Imladris share a fundamental constituent: 
a small measure of a nectar distilled of old from flowers 
that once blossomed in the Undying West. This is said to 
be a bright yellow liquid contained in a crystal vial, kept 
safe in Erestor’s most private reserve. It would be a great 
misfortune if the invaluable substance would run out and 
found to be irreplaceable, or be lost or stolen.
Erestor’s Travelling Cordial
As soon as Frodo had swallowed a little of the warm 
and fragrant liquor he felt a new strength of heart, 
and the heavy drowsiness left his limbs.
If the company is leaving Rivendell to embark on 
a mission considered by Elrond to be a matter of 
great importance, it is possible that the guide of the 
fellowship will be entrusted with a flask of  travelling 
cordial. Generally, a flask contains enough Miruvor 
for about thirty sips. Heroes may sip from the flask 
once a day (taking more than that does not have any 
additional beneficial effect). A sip removes 1d4 levels 
of Exhaustion and returns 1 Hit Die to the hero. 
See page 139 of the Adventures in Middle-earth 
Loremaster’s Guide for more information.
Erestor’s Medicinal Tonic
"You will soon be sound again. Elrond has cured you: he 
has tended you for days, ever since you were brought in."
Erestor’s tonic is a strong, aromatic liquor, both 
pungent and sweet in taste. Master Elrond uses it to 
prepare different warm concoctions, to be drank by 
those he is assisting. Sometimes, he serves it straight, 
in a small glass, as it helps greatly in relieve the pain 
of the wounded.
Companions that take a sip of the tonic whilst taking 
a short rest double the effectiveness of the first Hit 
Die they spend during that rest. Roll the die, add your 
Constitution modifier and then double that result.
A companion that is given the tonic while by treated by 
another character during a long rest not only recovers 
all of their hit points but can either recover all of their 
Hit Dice (instead of half) or remove a condition. If the 
hero is being tended to by Elrond, he may grant both 
benefits in a single long rest.

--- PAGE 19 ---
19
Lindir
Lindir is the seneschal of Elrond, entrusted with the 
stewardship of his household. He is certainly the most 
familiar face to all those who enter the valley, as he is 
usually the first individual they encounter on their arrival, 
and the last one they see upon leaving. Lindir seems to 
possess the uncanny ability to be found wherever his help 
is required, and whenever he is looked for.
Guests who think that Lindir is just the butler of the house 
should think again, though – the soft-spoken Elf is among 
Elrond’s most trusted friends and his personal squire in 
times of war. He used to leave Imladris on errands and 
missions, but has refrained from doing so since the Lady 
Celebrían was seized by Orcs in the Redhorn Pass and he 
failed to rescue her before she was harmed by her captors. 
When he is not attending to his services, Lindir dedicates 
himself to the construction and perfection of musical 
instruments. Probably the most accomplished luthier east 
of the Sea, Lindir also possesses a most musical voice, 
but he is not easily persuaded to sing in the presence of 
listeners.
Damron, the Elven-smith
To the north of the House of Elrond is a wide clearing 
dominated by a waterfall, where a mountain stream 
crashes down a high rock wall. Here, three water wheels 
operate the bellows and trip-hammers of a large smithy, 
and charcoal needed for the production of finer steel is 
made in the nearby woods all year round.
The smithy is the house of Damron, one of the last of the 
Elven-wrights of Eregion. He was an apprentice at the time 
of the destruction of that land, and he was brought out of 
the city of Ost-in-Edhil by Elrond himself, who carried his 
badly burned body for many miles. His body and spirit 
alike still bear the scars of that time of war and strife.
For centuries Damron could not forget the ruin of all the 
wonderful things that the Elves and the Dwarves created 
in Eregion and in Khazad-dûm, nor could he forgive. At 
the time of the Last Alliance, his thirst for vengeance drove 
him to spoil this part of the valley of Imladris of all trees; 
under his command, the Elven weaponsmiths burned 
them all to fuel their forges, as they laboured to arm the 
host of Gil-galad and Elendil.
In the year 2951, a deep change seems to have been 
brought upon him. This occurred when the young man 
known as Estel reached the age of twenty and his true 
name and ancestry were finally revealed to him. Damron 
was previously charged with the keeping of the shards of 
the great sword Narsil, and he was the one who presented 
them to Aragorn, as a token of his identity as the true Heir 
of Isildur.
Imladris

--- PAGE 20 ---
Rivendell Region Guide
20
No one knows what Aragorn told Damron upon receiving 
the precious heirloom, but the young man seemed 
transfixed as he uttered a few words to the Elven-smith. 
Since that day, Damron has devoted himself to the art 
of mending and restoring ancient devices and weapons, 
abandoning all other pursuits.
The Elf-lords of Rivendell
"And Elves, sir! Elves here, and Elves there! Some like kings, 
terrible and splendid; and some as merry as children."
Many High Elves live in the House of Elrond. Among them 
are powerful Lords who have fought in many wars in the 
West of the World, and who are now weary of battle and 
seek only what peace Middle-earth has to offer them; 
others are lore-masters and craftsmen, who study ancient 
texts or labour tirelessly at the forge; others more are 
minstrels, who compose songs and tales about faraway 
lands and the deeds of the heroes of old.
The sons of Elrond, Elladan and Elrohir, are counted 
among the Elf-lords of Rivendell. Twin warriors in the full 
of their strength, they are dark-haired and grey-eyed like 
their father, and said to be so much alike that only those 
who know them well can tell them apart. Ever eager to 
fight the shadow, their enthusiasm has turned to vengeful 
fervor since when Celebrían their mother was made 
prisoner by the Orcs.
Their father often sends Elladan and Elrohir together 
out upon errantry, on great scouting journeys or as 
messengers to distant lands, as they are hardy travellers, 
and have a deep knowledge of the lands on both sides of the 
Misty Mountains. The young boy Estel was often sent with 
them far afield, even before he turned twenty, to temper his 
character and teach him the ways of the wild.
Elrohir
Medium Elf
STR 
20 (+5)
DEX 
16 (+3)
CON 
18 (+4)
INT 
17 (+3)
WIS 
15 (+2)
CHA 
14 (+2)
Armour Class 17 (Leather Corslet, Shield)
Hit Points 85 (10d8+40)
Speed 30 ft
Saving Throws Dexterity +6, Wisdom +5
Skills Animal Handling +5, Perception +5, Survival +5, 
Riddle +6
Senses passive Perception 15
Languages Quenya, Sindarin, Westron
Challenge 6 (2,300 XP)
Hatred (Orc-kind) (Recharge 3-6). Elrohir remembers 
the terrible fate that Orc-kind inflicted upon his mother. 
He will use his bonus action to gain Advantage on attacks 
against them this round.
Hawk’s Eye (Recharge 3-6). Elrohir can use his bonus 
action to negate Disadvantage due to being at long range 
for this turn.
Many Long Leagues. If Elrohir is with the Company on a 
journey then a companion can spend Inspiration to allow 
a long rest. This ability can only be used once per journey.
Actions
Multiattack: Elrohir can make two attacks with either his 
Long Sword or his Great Bow.
Long Sword: Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 9 (1d8+5) slashing damage or 10 (1d10+5) 
slashing damage if used with two hands.
Great Bow: Ranged Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, range 
150/600 ft, one target. Hit: 7 (1d8+3) piercing damage.
Reaction
Uncanny Dodge. If Elrohir can see an attacker that has 
struck him, he may use his reaction to halve that attack’s 
damage.

--- PAGE 21 ---
21
Elladan
Medium Elf
STR 
16 (+3)
DEX 
20 (+5)
CON 
18 (+4)
INT 
15 (+2)
WIS 
17 (+3)
CHA 
13 (+1)
Armour Class 17 (Leather Corslet)
Hit Points 85 (10d8+40)
Speed 30 ft
Saving Throws Dexterity +8, Wisdom +6
Skills Athletics +6, History +5, Perception +9, 
Traditions +5
Senses passive Perception 19
Languages Quenya, Sindarin, Westron
Challenge 6 (2,300 XP)
Hatred (Orc-kind) (Recharge 3-6). Elladan will never 
forget his mother’s suffering at the hands of Orc-kind. He 
will use his bonus action to gain Advantage on attacks 
against them this round.
Hunter. Elladan gains +3 to all of his Perception checks 
(included above).
Well-travelled. If Elladan is with the Company and they 
are travelling in Eastern Eriador or the Western Vales then 
the Guide rolls 1d8+4 for the Embarkation Roll.
Actions
Multiattack: Elladan can make two attacks with either 
his Broadsword or his Great Bow.
Broadsword: Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 9 (1d8+3) slashing damage.
Great Bow: Ranged Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, range 
150/600 ft, one target. Hit: 9 (1d8+5) piercing damage.
Reaction
Parry. Elladan adds 3 to his AC against one melee attack 
that would hit him. To do so, he must see the attacker and 
be wielding a melee weapon.
The White Council
"It was I who first summoned the White Council. And if my 
designs had not gone amiss, it would have been governed by 
Gandalf the Grey…"
It was in the waning years of the Third Age that Galadriel 
of Lórien called for a gathering of the Wise and powerful, 
a congregation later known as the White Council. Its 
members included the Lady of the Galadhrim herself, her 
husband Celeborn, and the mysterious Wizards Gandalf 
and Saruman – though it is said that others counted 
among the Wise had been part of it since the beginning.
The White Council met for the first time in Rivendell in the 
year 2463. There, the Wise discussed the growing threat of 
Dol Guldur. Círdan the Shipwright was also in attendance, 
as well as the Master of Imladris, Elrond Halfelven. 
Though Gandalf the Grey was voted to be the head of the 
council, he declined the obligation and the charge was 
given instead to Saruman the White. The council long 
discussed the malice of Sauron, a shadow still lingering in 
Middle-earth, his defeat notwithstanding, and what could 
be the cause of the darkness rising in Mirkwood. In the 
end, it was deemed necessary that each member of the 
council should go back into the world with a vigilant eye 
and a silent tongue; the Wise feared that if they gathered 
too openly or too often, then the Enemy would take notice 
and waylay their efforts.
Though a long time would pass until the next formal 
meeting of the White Council, they maintained contact 
with one another, as each individually set about hindering 
the efforts of the growing shadow. In 2850 Gandalf the 
Grey took it upon himself to discover the truth behind 
Dol Guldur and its mysterious Necromancer. He found 
his darkest fears to be true; the Necromancer was none 
other than the Dark Lord himself, Sauron. His spirit had 
endured and his power was growing.
Desperately concerned, the next year Gandalf bid that 
those still dedicated to the cause of the Free Peoples must 
assemble once more. Saruman counselled against this, 
fearing the watch of Sauron and his growing power. He 
believed secrecy was the council’s greatest strength, to be 
surrendered only at the utmost of needs. But Saruman’s 
concerns went unheeded, much to his displeasure, and the 
White Council met again in Imladris that spring. Gandalf 
asked the assembly to strike at Dol Guldur, stronghold of 
the Necromancer, now known to be Sauron. 
He told of the blight that had taken hold in Mirkwood 
and feared that if they did not act soon, then Sauron’s 
power would grow too great for even the council itself 
to intervene. Though others considered the wisdom of 
his words, it was Saruman, acting as head of the White 
Council, who judged such a thing unwise. Crying for 
patience and wisdom, Saruman convinced those gathered 
to maintain their secrecy: the White Wizard confided 
to his allies that he had been studying tomes and texts 
concerning the Enemy.
Imladris

--- PAGE 22 ---
Rivendell Region Guide
22
With the Ruling Ring lost to knowledge, Saruman said, 
there was little fear that Sauron could truly threaten 
Middle-earth again, and he believed that Gandalf’s 
“fearmongering” had clouded his judgement – along with 
his acquired passion for Galenas, the sweet leaf of the 
Halflings.
In 2941, Gandalf once again urged the White Council to 
strike at Dol Guldur. In the intervening years, more and 
more Men had returned to Wilderland and he saw a 
chance that the North could prosper if the Necromancer 
was dealt with. This time, to Gandalf’s surprise, Saruman 
agreed. Before autumn of that year the White Council 
and a few select allies stormed Dol Guldur and the Dark 
Lord was forced to flee before them; he abandoned his 
stronghold, but remained undefeated.
Ten years later the Dark Lord Sauron declared himself 
openly. He had returned to the tower of Barad-dûr and 
had begun rebuilding a great and terrible army. In 
response to this, the White Council met one last time in 
the year 2953. Saruman tried to convince the other Wise 
that even though the Dark Lord had revealed himself after 
centuries, he had no true power. Without the Ruling Ring, 
Sauron could do no lasting harm to Middle-earth, and 
Saruman claimed that he had learned that the One Ring 
had been lost to the sea, when it slipped from Isildur’s 
finger and was washed down the Anduin River. Gandalf 
the Grey was not so certain… 
The White Council as a Patron
Any member of the White Council might serve as a patron 
to a company of adventurers, as the Wise will easily find 
a worthy (and dangerous!) endeavour for heroes eager 
to fight the darkness. In addition to Elrond, Galadriel, 
Gandalf and Saruman, there are a number of other 
personalities who may be considered to have attended one 
or more of their meetings. As one of the Wizards, Radagast 
the Brown is a likely candidate, as well as powerful Elf-
lords such as Círdan the Shipwright, Celeborn of Lórien 
or even Thranduil, the Elvenking.
The first consequence of being on a mission sponsored by 
a council member is that the Company gains special credit 
to the eyes of all its other members, and to those of all 
the Free Peoples leaders who recognise and appreciate the 
efforts of the White Council. Unfortunately, the opposite 
is also true: proud chieftains and rulers who resent the 
meddling of Wizards and ‘Elven sorcerers’ might leave 
heroes on a mission waiting at their doors…
‘Agents’ of the White Council
While it is unlikely that the companions would be made 
aware that they are acting directly on behalf of a council 
member, particularly trusted individuals might be aware 
of whom they serve. In most cases, their goals would seem 
true and noble, but it might not always be so. If the player-
heroes were acting in the service of Saruman, for example, 
they might be unwitting pawns in his attempts to discover 
the location of the One Ring or even hide the truth of its 
evidence from other council members.
Indeed, Saruman once called himself “Ring-maker,” and 
characters who are active late in the Third Age might be 
sent on errands retrieving the necessary materials and 
ancient lore so that he can craft a ring of his own to rival 
the One Ring.
things to do while in
- Rivendell -
Merely to be there was a cure for weariness, 
fear, and sadness.
Bilbo once described Rivendell as ‘a perfect house, whether 
you like food or sleep or story-telling or singing, or just 
sitting and thinking best, or a pleasant mixture of them 
all’. So it will be with your Company, for once welcomed 
into the House of Elrond, they too will find it a Sanctuary 
proof against all the troubles of the world.
Staying at 
the Last Homely House
"You are in Rivendell, and you need not worry about 
anything for the present."
Adventurers come to Rivendell to rest and find counsel, 
and leave their fear and anxiety behind. Who chooses to 
stay here learns what it means to treasure every season

--- PAGE 23 ---
23
and every passing day, and would gladly stop here for 
ever and ever. Such is the enchantment of the valley of 
Imladris.
Effects on Shadow
For as long as they remain in Rivendell, all companions are 
considered to have a score of 0 Shadow points (including 
permanent Shadow). When they leave the house of Elrond, 
they soon start to again feel the burden of their sorrows, 
and their Shadow score reverts to normal in a few days.
Additionally, players should note that companions 
spending a Fellowship phase in Rivendell may choose the 
Heal Corruption undertaking and make two checks instead 
of one. Both checks remove Shadow points according to the 
rules on page 201 of the Player’s Guide. For High Elves this 
counts as only one undertaking and thus they gain only 1 
permanent Shadow point.
Recovery
Ailing heroes who rest in Imladris do not stay sick for long. 
A companion that undertakes recovery at the Last Homely 
not only removes all Exhaustion levels and regains all hit 
points and Hit Dice but also removes all conditions (with 
the exception of Miserable).
Effects on Experience
Time seems to run at a strange pace in the valley of 
Imladris. Heroes who stay there forget their worries 
and concerns, but also risk neglecting their duties and 
responsibilities.
During the Adventuring phase, at the end of a session 
of play, if a companion spent any time in Rivendell she 
cannot advance in level until she spends a session’s worth 
of play outside of the valley.
Hiding from the Eye
If the company spends a Fellowship phase in Rivendell, 
the companions see their starting Hunt score for their next 
Adventuring phase lowered by a number of points based 
on the length of their stay in the House of Elrond (See The 
Eye of Mordor on page 110).
If the company spends a Fellowship phase in Imladris 
they lower their starting Hunt score by 1 point, or by 2 
points if the Fellowship phase lasted a season or more.
 New Fellowship Phase 
Undertakings
The hall of Elrond’s house was filled with folk: Elves for 
the most part, though there were a few guests of other sorts.
Here follow several new additional Fellowship phase 
undertakings. A number of them can be chosen exclusively 
by companions who gained access to Imladris and are 
spending a Fellowship phase there; others can be used 
elsewhere too. More Fellowship phase undertakings 
linked to locations outside of the valley of Imladris are 
described in the Beyond Rivendell chapter.
Go See a Lore-master
"These are not of troll-make. They are old swords, very old 
swords of the High Elves of the West, my kin. They were 
made in Gondolin for the Goblin-wars."
When a hero explores a forgotten hoard and discovers a 
strange ring, a magical blade or a coat of mail, he is unlikely 
to know much about it. A character spending a Fellowship 
phase in Rivendell (or in another place where a Lore-master 
dwells) may choose this undertaking to learn what there 
is to be learnt about the item, its origins and history, and 
possibly its name and the identity of its maker.
Additionally, the Lore-master is able to unveil some 
specific features of the item. In the case of a Wondrous 
Artefact, its Blessings are revealed (see page 127 of the 
Loremaster’s Guide ). In the case of a Legendary Weapon 
or Armour, the companion gets to discover any Banes and 
the nature of the next hidden Quality of the item (but that 
Quality will still need to be activated to be used, see page 
134 of the Loremaster’s Guide ). It is not possible to bring 
the same item to the attention of the same Lore-master 
more than once.
Open Rivendell as a Sanctuary
If a company has entered Rivendell during an Adventuring 
phase, the heroes may gain permission to spend a first 
Fellowship phase there. If they wish to return, they must 
all choose the Open Sanctuary undertaking and thus be 
accepted as regular guests by Elrond.
Companions who have opened Rivendell as a sanctuary 
find their way there with a DC 15 Wisdom (Survival) 
Imladris

--- PAGE 24 ---
Rivendell Region Guide
24
check, regardless of the composition of the company (see 
Finding Rivendell, on page 7).
Receive Title (Friend of Elrond)
A hero who has caught the eye of Master Elrond because 
of his actions, or even potential capabilities, may — with 
the Loremaster’s permission — choose this undertaking 
and secure his connection with the Last Homely House.
The companion receives all the normal benefits 
connected to the Receive Title undertaking  described on 
page 201 of the Player’s Guide, here briefly summarised: 
The companion is regarded as two steps higher than the 
Cultural Attitude Chart would indicate.  A Friend of Elrond 
is granted permanently a room on the upper floor of the 
Last Homely House, and a special place at his table. Any 
monetary benefits they collect due to their Title usually 
come in the form of fine gifts from the Elves rather than 
ready coin.
Researching Lore in the House of Elrond
…they pondered the storied and figured maps and books of 
lore that were in the house of Elrond.
If a companion is spending the Fellowship phase in 
Rivendell, he may profit from the wealth of lore it guards. 
When a hero chooses this undertaking, he first specifies 
the subject he is researching (a place, an individual, a 
historical event); then, he makes a DC 15 Intelligence 
(History, Lore, Nature or Riddle) check. If this check is 
failed, the companion rolls on the following listing with 
Disadvantage. If Elrond is a patron of the Company, the 
hero receives Advantage for the roll.
1: Wasted Time.  There is no evil in the Last Homely 
House, but a curious mind runs a different risk: you have 
fallen prey of the enchantment of Rivendell, and have 
spent many days and evenings listening to the Elves telling 
their tales of the distant past, listening to their fair music, 
and sometimes sleeping in a corner in the Hall of Fire! 
Unfortunately, you completely forgot about the topic you 
were researching…
2-6: Nothing Useful. You have spent days and nights 
pouring over dusty books and crumbling parchments. If 
this is the first time you’ve received this result, you may 
roll again, this time with Disadvantage.
7-12: Useful Information. The Loremaster must provide 
at least one useful element of information about your 
subject.
13-15: Precious Information. The Loremaster must 
provide two useful elements of information about the 
researched subject.
16-17: A Mystery Revealed. You have uncovered 
something substantial — the Loremaster must provide two 
useful elements of information. Furthermore, once in the 
next Adventuring phase you can recall your time spent 
amidst the lore of Elrond to gain Inspiration.
 
18-19: Great Secrets. You have discovered everything 
that was possible to find about your subject in the place 
that you have been making your research. During the next 
Adventuring phase, the first time you are called to make an 
Intelligence check, you can spend Inspiration to use your 
knowledge gained here to succeed, as if you had rolled 
exactly what was needed. If no result on the die would 
generate a success, you cannot use this benefit.
20: Favourable Information. You may either select A 
Mystery Revealed, or roll again with Advantage.
There and Back Again
One autumn evening some years afterwards Bilbo was 
sitting in his study writing his memoirs – he thought of 
calling them "There and Back Again, a Hobbit’s Holiday".
If a hero returns home for a Fellowship phase and spends 
an entire season or more without going on adventures, he 
may choose this undertaking to dedicate himself fully to 
his family and folk.
Spending time in front of a cozy hearth, while enjoying an 
everyday life confirms a hero that his efforts are not spent 
in vain: in the next Adventuring phase the companion can 
grant himself Inspiration a number of times equal to half 
his Proficiency Bonus, rounded up.
But staying close to one’s family and friends bitterly 
reminds an adventurer of what he is going to lose should 
he fall in his struggle against the Shadow: the companion 
gains 1 permanent Shadow point.

--- PAGE 25 ---
25
Friend of Elrond
A character who is a Friend of Elrond (see page 25) and 
is staying in Rivendell is allowed to choose the There and 
Back Again undertaking as if he returned home.
Visit the Treasury of your Folk
… his coat of marvellous mail, the gift of the Dwarves 
from the Dragon-hoard, he lent to a museum, to the Michel 
Delving Mathom-house in fact.
When heroes find magical weapons or armour, they 
will probably add it to their equipment, replacing their 
previous favourite blade or coat of mail. When this 
happens, companions may return home for a Fellowship 
phase and leave an item of unusual worth in the safe-
keeping of their folk.
Companions returning a Cultural Heirloom they 
previously were entrusted with are honouring their 
community by allowing a future hero to bear that 
item. The next time the Company has an Audience 
with any member of that culture they are considered to 
automatically succeed at the Introduction Check and 
gain Advantage on the Final Audience Check.
If a hero is able to present a Legendary Weapon or 
Armour to the treasury of his folk then such a gift is of 
immeasurable value. The hero will be fêted and the leaders 
of the community will spend long hours hearing the 
hero’s story and honouring their accomplishments. The 
hero receives Experience Points based on their Proficiency 
Bonus, using the following chart.
Proficiency Bonus
XP Award
+2
450
+3
1150
+4
2250
+5
4050
+6
6350
A companion who is lucky enough to be able to return 
multiple pieces of war-gear to his folk may visit the 
treasury more than once (in separate Fellowship phases).
Write a Song
"That is a song," he said, "in the mode that is called ann-
thennath among the Elves…"
The folks of Middle-earth compose songs to remember 
things that are fair, and to celebrate life. A companion 
may choose this undertaking during a Fellowship phase 
to compose a song.
To write a song, a hero must make a Charisma 
(Performance) check. The DC is 17 unless the composer 
is writing his song while in Rivendell or possesses the 
Minstrelsy trait, in which case the check is DC 15.
The difficulty can be further modified by choosing one of 
the modes listed below. Note that Traditional and Thematic 
can be combined whilst Elvish compositions stand alone.
The hero’s success at the composition check determines 
the difficulty of performing the song. A basic success 
means DC 15, succeeding by 5 or more awards DC 13, 
and result of 20 on the composition check grants DC 10 
to perform the song. If the roll failed, the composer has 
struggled to find the right words or melody and will have 
to try again at another time.
Add each new song to a Company’s list of songs. Such a list 
is used to keep track of which compositions are available 
to the companions to sing during an Adventuring phase 
(see Singing Songs on page 26). Each song entry in the list 
must indicate the song’s difficulty (TN), and whether a 
composition is Thematic, Traditional (and which culture), 
or Elvish.
Traditional (-2 DC to compose)
The words, subject or tune of the new song are based off an 
ancient melody or theme that is familiar to the members 
of a particular folk.
Other folks struggle to appreciate it, and thus find it 
harder to sing it: companions not sharing the culture of 
the songwriter have Disadvantage on their Performance 
checks.
Imladris

--- PAGE 26 ---
Rivendell Region Guide
26
Thematic (-2 DC to compose)
The song celebrates a particular activity, and can be 
employed only under very specific circumstances: the song 
cannot be sung to effectiveness, unless such conditions 
apply.
Examples of thematic compositions include: walking-
songs, supper-songs, bed-songs, rain-songs, bath-songs, 
drinking-songs, songs of lamentation, songs of victory, 
forging-songs, mining-songs, etc. 
Elvish (+2 DC to compose)
The companion creates a song using or imitating an Elven 
mode of composition. The result is a tune or rhyme that 
is particularly uplifting to anyone who hears it. An Elvish 
song may be employed twice during each Adventuring 
phase (where other songs may be used only once, see 
Singing Songs below). Note that an Elvish song cannot be 
Traditional nor Thematic.
Singing Songs
"It is a fair tale, though it is sad, as are all the tales 
of Middle-earth, and yet it may lift up your hearts." 
He was silent for some time, and then he began not to 
speak but to chant softly…
During an Adventuring phase, the companions may 
choose to sing a song to reinforce their mutual bond of 
friendship and inspire themselves to pursue their goals 
with renewed strength of purpose.
First, the companions choose a song to sing among 
those on their song list. Then, all companions may 
make a Charisma (Performance) check (the result of 
the composition check determines the DC to perform 
it). Heroes proficient with a musical instrument can 
instead use that tool.
Each successful check grants the Company a Fellowship 
die, a d4. Fellowship dice are held in common by the 
Company, in a ‘pool’ of dice. Whenever a member 
of the Company makes an ability check, attack roll 
or saving throw the hero may use one Fellowship die 
and add it to the result. Once used, a Fellowship die is 
removed from the pool. Unused Fellowship dice are lost 
at the end of the Adventuring phase.
Use of Fellowship dice is governed by group consensus. 
A Player-hero that wishes to use a Fellowship die over 
the objections of their companions may do so, but the 
hero receives a Shadow point as well.
Each song may be employed by the Company once 
for each Adventuring phase (twice if it is an Elvish 
song): mark a song off the list once it has been spent. 
A song must be marked off whether it has been used 
successfully or not.

--- PAGE 27 ---
27
a History of
- eriador - 
 
The Realm of Arnor
In the late years of Númenor its kings became haughty 
and proud. In their arrogance they took the Dark Lord 
prisoner, to prove they were truly the greatest power in the 
world. This was to be their undoing, as the Enemy deceived 
them into attacking the Powers in the West. In a great 
cataclysm Númenor was destroyed, but those who had 
remained faithful escaped the destruction in nine ships. 
Elendil the Tall was their lord and with four ships he landed 
in northwestern Middle-earth, where he was greeted and 
welcomed by Gil-galad, the High King of the Noldor.
Shortly after their arrival, the exiles undertook great 
works, founding the realm of Arnor in the year 3319 of the 
Second Age. It encompassed almost all of Eriador between 
the rivers Lhûn (Lune) and Gwathló (Greyflood). In many 
places the Men of the West settled and built, raising the 
cities of Annúminas and Fornost, as well as the tower of 
Amon Sûl. Amidst the grief that accompanied the loss of 
their beloved homeland, they thought that the Downfall 
had brought one single good: that Sauron had been 
destroyed as well and his threat ended forever.
Thus Elendil and his people established their rule 
on Eriador. They reigned over the loyal settlers from 
Westernesse that came to these shores before them, 
and over the populous local folk that dwelt in that land, 
previously the theatre of the squabbles of petty lords, 
vying with each other for power. The first years of Arnor 
were full of toil, but their great endeavours helped them to 
leave behind the loss of Númenor, and a new generation 
was born that called this land their home – even if it 
was in exile. For a hundred years the followers of Elendil 
prospered in the North, always in close friendship with 
the Elven-folk of the High King in Lindon.
In the year 3429 of the Second Age, the exiles discovered 
that the Enemy had survived the cataclysm of Númenor. 
Orodruin (Mount Doom) burst into flames and Sauron 
attacked Gondor, the southern realm held by the sons 
of Elendil, taking that land by surprise. While in the 
beginning their defences held and the Dúnedain were able 
to push back the attackers, Anárion and Isildur were aware 
that their new realm alone would not hold against Mordor’s 
power forever. So, Isildur travelled north to his father in 
Arnor while Anárion led the war effort in the South.
Elendil took counsel with Gil-galad and together they 
formed the Last Alliance of Elves and Men in the year 3430. 
After three years of preparing their forces, the combined 
host of Arnor and Lindon crossed the Hithaeglir (Misty 
Mountains) over many passes. They marched down the 
Anduin Vales, where they were joined by numerous allies, 
and finally met the Enemy over the plain of Dagorlad. 
The battle was long and terrible, but in the end the Free 
Peoples were victorious, and they advanced into the Black 
Land to lay siege to the Dark Tower itself.
This alliance kept the Dark Lord confined in his fortress for 
seven years, until, in a last gamble, Sauron himself came 
forth and challenged the leaders of the allegiance upon 
the slopes of Orodruin. There, Elendil fell together with 
Gil-galad, but Isildur cut the Ruling Ring from Sauron’s 
hand and the Enemy was defeated.
A History of Eriador

--- PAGE 28 ---
Rivendell Region Guide
28
In the aftermath of the battle, Isildur became the High 
King of the Númenóreans in Exile and marched out to take 
his residence in the North. But on his way to Rivendell, 
his company was attacked near the forest of Mirkwood 
and everyone was killed, including the King and his three 
elder sons. Thus began the line of the Kings of Arnor with 
Valandil, the fourth son of Isildur.
The Third Age
It is said that the birth of the realm of Arnor was tainted 
by the death of Isildur. In the North, the Tale of Years does 
not record any great deeds, unlike that of Gondor in the 
South. The losses that the Dúnedain of Arnor suffered 
during the war contributed to this stagnation, but this lack 
of relevance is owed more to the position of the Northern 
Kingdom: in the west it bordered on the land of the Eldar, 
to the north lay a deserted waste, to the east the Misty 
Mountains formed a formidable barrier, and to the south 
lay the Sea. Or perhaps its people simply grew complacent. 
Whatever the reasons, at the start of the Third Age, Arnor 
languished.
In the year 861 King Eärendur died and his three sons 
could not agree on his successor. For long it had been the 
custom and law of the Dúnedain that the eldest son of the 
king would succeed him on the throne, and this would 
have made the eldest son, Amlaith, the undisputed ruler. 
The other sons contested this with the support of many 
nobles from the south and east of Arnor. Many of these 
lords were the descendants of the first settlers that arrived 
in Eriador from Númenor, and were characterised by a 
strong and independent spirit. They backed the younger 
sons of Eärendur in arms, and for many months tensions 
rose. War seemed inevitable.
Despite his failure to secure the undisputed kingship, 
Amlaith was aware of the disastrous consequences that 
a war would bring to the northern Dúnedain. Thus he 
offered to divide the realm into three kingdoms, one for 
each brother: Arthedain in the north-west, Cardolan in 
the south, and Rhudaur in the north-east. The offer was 
accepted. Though the line of Isildur failed to preserve 
Arnor as a unified entity, bloodshed and kin-strife was 
avoided and the successor kingdoms knew peace for a 
time. As a symbolic gesture, Amlaith removed his seat to 
Fornost, for Annúminas had long been associated with 
Elendil’s seat as the High King of Arnor.
But the division of Arnor was not without consequences. 
In Cardolan and Rhudaur the lords who supported the 
younger sons of Eärendur requested and obtained many 
privileges in return for their help, and this weakened the 
authority of the kings of those lands since the beginning. 
The king of Rhudaur had to concede much to the local 
aristocracy, and that led to the independence of the 
indigenous Hill-men in the northernmost reaches of his 
domain.
The Rise of Angmar
The first few centuries following the founding of the 
successor kingdoms saw a peaceful co-existence between 
the three realms, but from the year 1000 of the Third Age 
a number of petty wars were fought for the control of the 
fortress of Amon Sûl and its great Seeing Stone. 
In the year 1230 the King of Cardolan was killed and his 
army destroyed while besieging the usurper of the throne 
of Rhudaur. Years of anarchy in Cardolan followed, until 
a new prince came to the throne, proving himself capable 
of restoring the peace, and the realm was allowed to 
prosper again for some time.
In the year 1300, the Lord of the Ringwraiths came to 
Eriador in disguise and established the realm of Angmar 
in the north-eastern marches of Arnor. At first it was little 
heeded since the kingdom lay in such a remote location 
and its master had successfully hidden his true nature by 
acting through his servants.
By the actions of the Witch-king of Angmar, the line of Isildur 
perished in Cardolan, as it already had in Rhudaur. Then 
Argeleb son of Malvegil, the King of Arthedain, claimed 
the lordship of all Arnor. The claim was supported by 
Cardolan but opposed in Rhudaur, where the Dúnedain 
had always numbered few, and where the native Hill-men 
now ruled the land in secret alliance with Angmar.
King Argeleb planned to defeat the Hill-men and restore 
Rhudaur to its place as part of Arnor, but the Dúnedain 
underestimated the strength of Angmar. In the First 
Northern War (1355-1356), Arthedain and Cardolan were 
defeated and King Argeleb slain. It was at this time that the 
weather in eastern Eriador began to grow harsher. With 
hindsight, the worsening conditions could be attributed to 
the rising power of Angmar.

--- PAGE 29 ---
29
The decades following the First Northern War saw 
Arthedain and Cardolan defend their borders fiercely 
against incursions from Rhudaur. But in the year 1409, 
Angmar unleashed a long-planned attack, and the 
Second Northern War began. By this time, Rhudaur was 
firmly under the control of the Witch-king, and the Hill-
men obeyed utterly the will of their dark master. The 
war ended with a catastrophic defeat for the Dúnedain. 
The high towers of Amon Dûn and Amon Sûl were sacked 
and King Arveleg slain. Deep raids by roving enemy 
forces reaped many lives in Arthedain and especially in 
Cardolan. The population of Annúminas was decimated 
and the city of Elendil finally deserted.
With the support of the Elves of Lindon, the onslaught of 
Angmar was eventually stopped, but the cost was high. 
Cardolan was broken, its last prince and sons lying dead 
on the battlefield, its army annihilated and the countryside 
ravaged by marauding Orcs and Hill-men.
The only surviving heir to the crown of Cardolan was 
the daughter of Arveleg, but she was soon killed too. The 
surviving fiefdoms of the realm began bickering for power. 
Cardolan never recovered from this disaster and slowly 
faded away. But the victory was costly for the witch-realm 
of Angmar, and for long years Arthedain was left in peace 
to succour its wounds.
In the year 1600 a small folk of good-natured creatures 
calling themselves Hobbits appealed to King Argeleb II 
for land to settle in. The extensive royal demesne west of 
the town of Bree had fallen into disuse after the war of 
1409 and the Hobbits were granted this land under the 
authority of the King in Fornost.
In the year 1636, another disaster struck when the Great 
Plague reached Eriador and devastated what remained 
of the population of Cardolan. The last Númenóreans of 
that land either perished or fled to Arthedain to join their 
relatives there. In the wake of the plague the ancient burial 
grounds upon the hills of Tyrn Gorthad became infested 
with evil spirits out of Rhudaur and Angmar.
Arthedain Stands Alone
In the two hundred years that followed the plague 
Arthedain was allowed to recover and even expand. 
Despite renewed aggressions from Angmar, the people of 
Arthedain prevailed, and the Third Northern War ended 
in 1851 in a great victory for King Araval. Attempts were 
made to re-occupy the north-western regions of former 
Cardolan, but the presence of fell spirits terrified any who 
tried.
But this was but a brief respite: for the rest of the reign of 
Araval a number of unusual blights affected the land of 
Eriador and many illnesses plagued its people. It was at 
this time that the Lord of Angmar became openly known 
as the Witch-king and it was first suspected that he might 
be a direct servant of Sauron – perhaps even one of the 
Nazgûl.
Warfare along the borders intensified in 1891 when 
Araval’s son Araphant took the throne, and the future 
looked dark for Arthedain. But during his reign alliances 
with Gondor were reaffirmed. The Southern Kingdom was 
beset by many perils too and it was first suspected that a 
greater evil might be behind the calamities that befell the 
descendants of Númenor.
Arvedui, son of Araphant, wedded the daughter of King 
Ondoher of Gondor in the year 1940, thus sealing the new 
friendship and alliance between the two realms. Both 
pledged a promise of mutual defence. Gondor was the first 
to call upon this when the Wainriders invaded in the year 
1944, but Arthedain was unable to send any help. Angmar 
had renewed its attacks as well, and King Araphant was 
hard put to hold his borders. King Ondoher of Gondor was 
slain in battle with the Wainriders, along with his sons. 
Arvedui tried to claim the crown of Gondor for himself 
through his wife, but he was refused the request.
The following years saw Angmar threaten constantly the 
borders of Arthedain, weakening the power and influence 
of its kings with every passing season.
The End of Arnor
The final blow to Arthedain came with the Fourth Northern 
War in the year 1973, almost ten years after Arvedui had 
ascended to the throne in Fornost. Near the end of that 
year, the Witch-king unleashed the greatest army ever 
assembled in the North. At the first signs of the impending 
invasion in the autumn of 1973, Arvedui called to Gondor 
for help, but even though King Eärnil II sent a mighty force 
as swiftly as he could, it was too late.
A History of Eriador

--- PAGE 30 ---
Rivendell Region Guide
30
The resistance of Arthedain was valiant. King Arvedui 
had assembled a force so strong upon the North Downs 
that the Witch-king had to focus against it to counter the 
threat. Fornost was tenaciously defended by the second 
son of the King, stopping what forces of Angmar were 
arrayed against it. 
When Arvedui was finally engaged in battle, his army was 
destroyed, but many of Angmar’s best troops perished in 
the battle as well. The troops fighting in defence of Fornost 
were defeated too and the city fell, but many of the folk of 
Arthedain were allowed to flee westward to Lindon, led by 
Aranarth, Arvedui’s heir.
Even so, the great part of the people of Arthedain perished. 
Many others were enslaved by the soldiers of the Witch-
king, who wanted not only to conquer Arthedain, but to 
destroy its people.
King Arvedui escaped, but he was unable to join his allies 
in Lindon and was driven northwards. He repaired at the 
Bay of Forochel, where he awaited rescue with the help of 
the Lossoth, the Snowmen that lived in that cold land. As 
soon as Círdan heard of his fate, he sent a ship to the King’s 
aid, but to no avail. The King and his followers drowned 
when the ship foundered in the treacherous ice soon after 
leaving for the Grey Havens in March 1975. Many of the 
ancient treasures of Arnor were lost beneath the waters, 
the two Seeing Stones of Elendil amongst them.
The Fall of Angmar
Under the leadership of Círdan, the Elves of Lindon, 
the forces of Gondor and what remained of the army of 
Arthedain prepared their counter-attack. Finally, in the 
summer of 1974, their host marched east to confront the 
Witch-king. The battle was long and hard, but the arrival 
of the cavalry of Gondor and the losses that the army of 
Angmar had suffered fighting Arvedui combined to tip the 
scales in favour of the Free Peoples. The battle became a 
rout and after a final confrontation with Prince Eärnur, 
the Witch-king fled before the Elf-lord Glorfindel. The 
Witch-king was recognised not only as one of the Nazgûl, 
but as their chieftain.
With the battle won, the victorious leaders sought counsel 
and resolved that the threat of Angmar not be allowed 
to arise again. Once the winter subsided, the armies of 
Gondor marched north. The High Elves of Rivendell, 
led by Glorfindel and the sons of Elrond, joined in this 
campaign. The Witch-king had abandoned his kingdom, 
fleeing south. His task was accomplished and he returned 
to his Master. His servants remained without a lead, and 
stood no chance against the assembled forces of the Free 
Peoples.

--- PAGE 31 ---
31
When the forces of Gondor and Rivendell reached Angmar, 
they found a blighted land defended by a weak opposition. 
They scattered their enemies easily, and proceeded to 
destroy all the fortifications of the dreaded witch-realm 
that they could find. 
This task took many long years, and for that time the Men 
of Gondor had troops stationed in the North to help the 
remnants of the army of Arthedain.
The Dúnedain go into Hiding
Shortly after the victory over Angmar, Aranarth, son of 
Arvedui Last King, now King of Arthedain, gathered to 
Amon Sûl his surviving lords to determine the fate of the 
remaining Men of the West. Some dreamed of rebuilding 
Arnor, while others advised a more careful course of action.
With the counsel of Elrond Halfelven, Aranarth came to 
the conclusion that it would be best for Isildur’s Heirs to 
go into hiding and act from the shadows to better defend 
the land and preserve what they could of their ways. He 
took the title of first Chieftain of the Dúnedain, and he 
sent his son Arahael to be fostered in in Rivendell.
This was the beginning of a long tradition.
Rise of the Rangers
Once Gondor’s armies withdrew south, the inhabitants of 
Eriador were left alone. The main surviving communities 
were those of the Hobbits of the Shire and the Men of 
Breeland. Other groups of Men were allowed to endure 
for a time, for many evil things that dwelt in Eriador had 
been killed or chased into hiding, and the weather itself 
had grown less harsh now that the Witch-king no longer 
ruled the North. These small lordships dotted the land like
islands in the sea.
The Dúnedain continued to live among the ruins of their 
broken homeland, never staying for long in any one place, 
a wandering folk. No longer were they the masters of an 
ancient realm, ruling over lesser Men, but a diminished 
people much reduced in number. 
In time, those among them who walked amidst the other 
folks of Eriador became known as the Rangers of the 
North, and they prowled the land in small groups, always 
moving between hidden refuges.
Far from the eyes of the other inhabitants of Eriador, they 
continued to fight the threat posed by Orcs, Wolves and 
other fell creatures.
For almost seven centuries the inhabitants of Eriador 
prospered, after a fashion. But this long peace could not 
last forever. When a strong band of Orcs attacked a group 
of travellers who were crossing the Redhorn Pass in the 
year 2509, taking prisoner Celebrían, the wife of Elrond, 
it was clear that the Orcs had secretly begun again to 
multiply in the Misty Mountains.
The incursions of evil creatures became more frequent, 
and they extended to the land guarded by the Rangers, 
who were hard pressed to counter them. Limited in their 
numbers, all they could do was to constantly patrol 
Eriador, and visit the various folks to warn their chieftains 
and help them organise their defences.
A History of Eriador

--- PAGE 32 ---
Rivendell Region Guide
32
The Orc Wars
In the year 2740, the first major Orc invasion of Eriador 
began. It was known to Arassuil, Chieftain of the Dúnedain, 
that the Orcs of the mountains had for some time harassed 
the communities of Men living in the Anduin Vales, but 
he deemed them not to be a threat. Alas, his judgement 
proved wrong and the people under the watch of the 
Rangers paid a high price for it. After a few skirmishes in 
the foothills of the Hithaeglir, Orcs started to appear in 
great numbers in the regions to the west.
The vastness of Eriador made it impossible for the Rangers 
to mount an effective defence, and more and more 
warbands struck with impunity and retreated to Mount 
Gram, laden with booty and slaves. Those who lived the 
closest to the Misty Mountains suffered the gravest losses, 
and many deserted their settlements.
Arassuil then intensified his patrols, and messengers rode 
across Eriador to warn all the surviving communities of 
the impending danger. More and more villages were able 
to prepare themselves, and to repel some of the raids. In 
the following years skirmishes were constant, and the 
sight of Orcs and Wolves became all too common for all 
those who lived between the river Baranduin and the road 
to Tharbad.
In the year 2745 the Orcs entered Eriador with two armies, 
one issuing from Mount Gram and one from Goblin-town. 
It is said that the Orcs were spurred into action by Azog, 
the Orc-chief from Moria who would later bring so much 
grief to Durin’s Folk. The Orcs from Goblin-town targeted 
the lands around the river Hoarwell and caused great 
damage there, while those from Mount Gram headed 
directly west. 
Only the timely intervention of a company of Rangers 
from the North led by Galathir, one of Arassuil’s captains, 
saved the town of Bree, while the Orcs from Goblin-town 
were repelled only at great loss.
But the worst was still to come. Two years later, in 2747 the 
Orcs attempted their most grievous stroke so far. With the 
intent of breaking any resistance, they invaded Eriador 
with three hosts this time, from Mount Gram, Goblin-town 
and Moria. They overwhelmed all defences close to the 
mountains, and marched west.
The army from Moria trampled through Eregion and 
reached the marshland of Swanfleet, where the Hoarwell 
joins with the Glanduin river, north of Tharbad. Here 
the Orcs crossed the stream in many boats and barges, 
taking by surprise the scanty garrisons on the other 
side — the river had been until that moment considered 
an impassable border. The Enemy was left free to roam 
across Minhiriath, and many warbands fell upon its 
communities. 
Its defenders were almost defenceless against the 
marauding Orcs, as many warriors had left to travel 
north, expecting to meet the enemy in the regions of 
central Eriador. Only those who took refuge in the city 
of Tharbad were spared, as its ruinous fortifications still 
proved unassailable by the Orcs.
The smaller hamlets and settlements of Minhiriath were 
less fortunate, and were pillaged and put to the flame. 
Their inhabitants fell under the blades of the Orcs; the loss 
of life was enormous.

--- PAGE 33 ---
33
In the North, things proved less disastrous, but not much 
less so. The Orcs were able to advance as far as Lake 
Evendim before they could be stopped, and wreaked 
havoc in the countryside. Eventually, a force of Hobbits led 
by Bandobras Took, the Bullroarer, met them at the Battle 
of Greenfields. The Orcs from Mount Gram were routed 
on the field, and their chieftain, Golfimbul, was slain.
The Long Winter
Ten years after the great Orc invasions, another terrible 
calamity struck the north-west of Middle-earth. In the last 
months of the year 2758 snow and frost began to appear 
very early, a sign of a coming cruel season: the Long 
Winter lasted for almost five months, crushing Eriador in 
its frozen grip. In many places the stores of food began to 
run low already by the end of December due to a meagre 
harvest.
The Shire itself suffered dearly from the winter, but for 
many of the already weakened communities of Eriador 
this was the death-knell. Thousands died from starvation, 
or were killed by the cold. The number of the Dúnedain 
surviving in Eriador was reduced as well.
Two Centuries of Oblivion
With twenty years of almost constant trouble and adversity, 
the surviving communities of Eriador were grievously 
diminished. In the course of the following two hundred 
years, most settlements outside of the Shire and Bree-land 
slowly dwindled into nothingness. The only surviving city 
of Eriador remained Tharbad, now a shadow of its former 
self and lacking a population capable of maintaining its 
ancient buildings and fortifications.
The regions that were formerly part of Angmar and 
Rhudaur became utterly inhospitable, infested by Orcs, 
Wolves and other fell creatures. Trolls started to come 
down from the mountains to dwell in the highlands to the 
east of the Hithaeglir.
Recent Years
In the year 2911, only thirty years before the death of the 
Dragon Smaug, another extraordinarily harsh winter 
began. Known to history as the Fell Winter, it was not as 
devastating as the cruel season of the years 2758 and 
2759, but it was vicious and long nonetheless. From 
mid-December to the end of February, Eriador lay under 
a deep blanket of snow. White wolves, a threat that was 
hardly remembered in the westlands of Eriador, ranged as 
far as the Shire and caught many an unwary Hobbit and 
Man in their cruel jaws.
The following spring saw massive floods from the melting 
snow drowning the lands along the great rivers of Eriador. 
The rising and swift-running waters compromised the 
already weakened structure of the great bridge at Tharbad, 
causing its collapse. The ancient settlement, by this time a 
dilapidated husk of a city, was abandoned by its last few 
inhabitants, leaving other, less savoury sorts of creatures 
to dwell among its ruins.
After almost three thousand years of history, the eastlands 
of Eriador are empty of all save birds and beasts. These 
lone-lands see sometimes Rangers pass among the 
shadows of the hills, but they are now few. The Men of 
Bree give them scornful names, and the inhabitants of the 
Shire know nothing about them.
A History of Eriador

--- PAGE 34 ---
Rivendell Region Guide
34
The Regions of 
Eastern
- Eriador -
...the Northern Lands had long been desolate, and 
the North Road was now seldom used: it was grass-
grown, and the Bree-folk called it the Greenway.
This chapter describes the wild lands of the eastern half 
of Eriador, territories that were part of the lost realm 
of Arnor. They include the regions found between the 
Barrow-downs in the west, the Misty Mountains in the 
east, Tharbad in the south and ancient Angmar in the 
north. These are the domains of the mysterious Rangers, 
their homeland and hunting ground. The town of Bree is 
not included, as it will be featured in a future supplement.
Elements of the Landscape
Eastern Eriador comprises a vast territory, thousands of 
miles wide. From the barren terrain of the Ettenmoors 
and the green hills of the North Downs, it includes many 
different landscapes. But these lands share several 
common elements of descriptions that the Loremaster 
may refer to when setting his game in these areas.
Lone-lands
More so than the lands of Wilderland, eastern Eriador is 
an empty land. Once home to great kingdoms and long 
lines of noble Men, their descendants have long since 
been scattered by years of plague, war and flood. Few now 
remain; certainly no settlements exist east of Bree that are 
larger than a hidden hamlet or well-defended farmstead. 
Rivendell is called the Last Homely House for good reason, 
for in these parts sanctuaries are few and very far between. 
It should not just be a rare occasion to see a friendly face, 
but to see any face, friendly or otherwise.
Ancient Ruins
The landscape of this region is dotted with the ruins of 
ancient realms and it is hard for travellers to ignore the 
shadow of what once was. Atop every hill stands the 
remains of a tumbled-down watchtower, beside every 
path is a crumbling wall. When the Company breaks for 
the night, they might well find they share their campsite 
with an old statue. Every ruin should remind them of the 
Men who have gone before them, and underline how little 
now remains of their legacy.
Ghosts of the Past
The past is not just physically present, but spiritually also. 
Whilst the east of Eriador is empty of the living, it is full of 
the dead. From the wights of the Barrow-downs to the Bog 
Soldiers of Rhudaur and the ghosts of old Angmar, this is a 
haunted land. Many who have died have done so uneasily 
– in war or from plague – and the Witch-king who once 
brought so much suffering and misery to this land stirred 
the spirits of many to serve his wicked ends.
Eregion
A wanderer leaving Rivendell to journey south would 
see the mountains rise ever higher to his left. The paths 
crossing this land are few, and wind amongst the foothills 
of the Misty Mountains, a wide expanse of deep dales 
carved by running waters, tumbled hills and treacherous 
swamps. After forty-five leagues as the crow flies, travellers 
feel a change in the air, and the land itself becomes easier 
to traverse; they have crossed into the country that Men 
call Hollin, once known as the realm of Eregion.
It is said that much evil must befall a country before it 
wholly forgets the Elves, if once they dwelt there. And 
indeed many Elves did live in Hollin, and for many long 
years. There is still a wholesome atmosphere in this land, 
even if no Man or Elf resides there any more, and many 
creatures enliven the days and nights with their sounds 
and songs, especially birds.
But to anyone capable of reading them, Eregion bears all 
the signs of a lingering sadness, the half-erased traces of 
a tragic past. Stones that were carefully crafted by hand 
now lay tumbled and ruinous among the weeds and wild 
plants, and stretches of ancient roads emerge from tracts 
of barren soil. The land of Hollin has seen the ravages of 
war, and while it recovered prodigiously, it still remembers 
its hurts.
Many High Elves of Rivendell recall a time in ages past 
when Eregion was a jewel of Elvendom in Middle-earth,

--- PAGE 35 ---
35
though few will speak of it openly. It is said that the stones 
themselves whisper lamentations that only the Eldar can 
hear. Dwarves too have songs of these lost times, when the 
Elves of Eregion and the Dwarves of Khazad-dûm worked 
together to forge treasures the like of which has not been 
seen since the Elder Days.
Though it has long been abandoned by the fair folk who 
once dwelt here, brave travellers pass between the rivers 
in the Land of Holly, for there climbs the only passage over 
the Misty Mountains between Rivendell and the Gap of 
Rohan. Under the side of cruel Caradhras is the Redhorn 
Gate, a narrow and treacherous path that is usable by 
skilled or desperate wanderers who seek swift passage 
into Wilderland.
Evidence of Hollin’s past magnificence becomes more 
apparent as one reaches the banks of the River Sirannon 
to the south. There, the proud capital of Eregion arose with 
its wide halls, the home of the greatest jewelsmiths of the 
Noldor. Now its ruins are buried beneath moss and vine 
with only the savage wolves to call them home. The Gate 
Stream itself once guided travellers to the walls of Khazad-
dûm and the now-lost Hollin Gate. But only shadow and 
regret remain in this place today, alongside a growing 
sense of dread.
Combat Scenery: covered pits, freezing cold (when 
Caradhras stirs), foundations, old walls, pillars, ravines, 
varied slopes
Wildlife
Many wild beasts make their home in the land of Hollin at 
all times. Hawks soar high up in the sky, while small birds 
nest in the bushes and holly trees, and fly in large flocks 
in winter. The jewel-smiths of Eregion imitated the delicate 
hue of the blue eggs of dunnocks in their works, and Elven 
maids taught greenfinches and goldfinches to sing; their 
pleasant and silvery song still takes on a superior musical 
quality sometimes, as they never forgot the teachings of 
the fair folk.
Closer to the foothills of the mountains the song of the 
birds becomes louder, as black ouzels join in the chorus 
from atop large rocks. Their mournful song and dark 
plumage decorated by a white circle around the neck seems 
to celebrate the creations of the ring-makers of Eregion.
Inhabitants
While Eregion was once a thriving realm, no folk dwell 
here now. It is a wild country, mourned by the Elves of 
Rivendell, forgotten by Men and remembered by the 
Dwarves only in works of metal and of stone and in songs 
and tales, as under the nearby mountain range was the 
land where their fathers worked of old.
Notable Characters
Aiwiel
Aiwiel is a High Elf from Rivendell. She often journeys 
south to Eregion to wander for a season among its ruins, 
listening to voices from the past. Aiwiel knows that locked 
inside the ancient stones dotting the landscape are the 
memories of many who lost their lives in the war against 
Sauron, and that many birds still sing songs that were 
taught to their kin long ago. She knows that because her 
brothers worked those stones, and she and her sisters 
taught the birds their songs. But they are gone. They 
Eregion
n
n
c
c
Moria
Eregion
Lone-lands
E
Mitheithel
Glanduin
Redhorn 
Pass
E
Caradhras
E
The Whispering Halls
Sirannon
The Regions of Eastern Eriador

--- PAGE 36 ---
Rivendell Region Guide
36
sought the Havens long ago, or died in the war. Aiwiel has 
no kin still living in Middle-earth, and she desperately 
clings to what memories she is left to mourn.
Aiwiel
Medium Elf
STR 
17 (+3)
DEX 
12 (+1)
CON 
13 (+1)
INT 
17 (+3)
WIS 
15 (+2)
CHA 
19 (+4)
Armour Class 13 (Leather Corslet)
Hit Points 66 (12d8+12)
Speed 30 ft
Skills History +5, Perception +4, Performance +6
Senses passive Perception 14
Languages Quenya, Sindarin, Westron
Challenge 3 (700 XP)
Two-weapon Attack. When Aiwiel makes a Dagger attack, 
she may use her bonus action to make a second Dagger 
attack, using the same to hit and damage values.
Actions
Dagger. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 
5 ft or range 20/60, one target. Hit: 5 (1d4+3) piercing 
damage.
Song of Urgency. Aiwiel may use her action to sing 
encouragement to her allies. Heroes that hear the song are 
moved to act with haste. A hero may use his reaction and 
spend Inspiration. Those that do gain +2 to AC, Advantage 
on Dexterity saving throws and an additional action on 
their turn. The action can only be used to Attack (one 
weapon attack only), Dash, Disengage, Hide or Use an 
Object. The effect lasts until the end of Aiwiel’s next turn.
Aiwiel is soft-spoken, wise, and wary of any wanderer she 
might encounter in the wild. Visiting the ruins, she spends 
long days sitting against half-crumbled walls of stone, 
or listening to the song of the birds. What she hears she 
keeps for herself, but she won’t refuse help to travellers 
who show respect for the past and who are not out to 
depredate the land of its hidden treasures.
Motivation: The land remembers the Elves of Eregion and 
weeps for our loss. So do I.
Expectations: +2 if the Company is singing a song in the 
Elvish mode when they chance upon her, or if they use 
music to set her at ease; -1 if the heroes express ignorance 
about the history of the land; -2 if they bear items recovered 
from the ruins of Aiwiel’s people.
The Warg of the Redhorn Gate
The wild wolves known as Wargs do not come west of the 
Misty Mountains, as there is nothing for them to prey 
upon, unless they are sent on an errand by their dark 
Master. Those who keep a watch on the land of Eregion 
speak of a great grey Warg who prowls the foothills, as if 
scouting its tracks and passes. No one knows where the 
Warg dwells and rumours say that it never stops in one 
place for long, so that he is not discovered by the High Elves 
or the Rangers of the North. In truth, whoever approaches 
the peak of Caradhras with the intention of crossing the 
Redhorn Gate risks to meet this dreadful creature, as the 
Warg hides in a cave opening along the mountain pass.

--- PAGE 37 ---
37
The Warg of Eregion is a Hound of Sauron (see the 
Loremaster’s Guide, page 114), except that it also possesses 
the Denizen of the Dark special ability.
Notable Locations
The Redhorn Pass
Where the Misty Mountains turn to the south-west, three 
peaks rise above all the others in the range. The tallest 
stands out like a bare horn of red rock tipped with snow, 
and is called Caradhras; beyond it rise the Silvertine 
and Cloudyhead, also known as Celebdil the White and 
Fanuidhol the Grey. Under the southern side of Caradhras 
climbs the high pass that is called the Redhorn Pass. The 
travellers that have attempted the climb call the mountain 
cruel, as its snows and biting winds seem at times guided 
by a sinister purpose. Indeed, during the cold months it is 
as though the mountain itself grows fierce and indignant 
that any would even dare to cross it.
But those who seek to cross the Misty Mountains here do 
not have many chances: they either brave the Redhorn 
Pass, or pass through the ancient underground realm 
of the Dwarves, Moria. The Redhorn Pass winds high 
up into the mountains for many miles in a twisting and 
climbing path. The narrow road winds under sheer walls 
of rock to its left, and runs along deep ravines on its right. 
Sometimes, great blocks of stone bar the way, and must be 
removed before a company can proceed. 
If they make it to the top, the path starts to climb down, 
eventually descending into a deep-shadowed valley, 
called Azanulbizar by the Dwarves, the Dimrill Dale by 
Men, and Nanduhirion by the Elves. There lies the smooth 
waters of Kheled-zâram, the Mirrormere, and the springs 
of the River Silverlode.
The Whispering Hills
Legends say that in the western part of Eregion there was 
once a great city of those Elves who above all loved skill 
and beauty. Among them was Celebrimbor, the greatest of 
the jewelsmiths of the Noldor. He forged the Three Rings of 
Power, the greatest and most tragic of all artefacts crafted 
by the Eldar since the breaking of Thangorodrim, and he 
refused to bring them under the control of Sauron and 
his Ruling Ring. For this reason Sauron made war against 
the realm of Eregion, and destroyed the city of the Elves, 
slaying its inhabitants or forcing them into exile.
Nothing remains of this once-magnificent city. Its ruins 
cannot be distinguished from the broken stones that litter 
the shores where the Sirannon meets the Glanduin river. 
But in Rivendell some believe that under the earth, vast 
halls must lie silent and undisturbed, with their treasuries 
of forgotten lore still intact behind reinforced gates. 
Abandoned when the High Elves fled and undiscovered by 
the forces of the Enemy, these legendary places might still 
await for someone to find them, or might have been buried 
by the weight of the centuries under their collapsed ceilings.
The Regions of Eastern Eriador

--- PAGE 38 ---
Rivendell Region Guide
38
The Trollshaws
From the Last Bridge over the Hoarwell to the Ford of 
Bruinen, the great East Road winds for thirty dreary 
leagues under the threat of the Trollshaws. It’s a rocky 
forest country, the beginning of far harsher lands to the 
north. Beeches and pines rise thick from steep sullen 
hillsides and cliffs. The road passes through long, steep 
valleys under high ridges and alongside brooks where 
sleepy willows sway. Under the eaves of the Trollshaws 
the noon sun leaks thin and pale and the nights are damp 
with fog and frequent drizzles of soaking rain. Travellers 
who are canny enough to keep their fires dim and hidden 
at night often pass through the Trollshaws without 
trouble; often enough that the road still sees use. But even 
an uneventful journey is grim and silent through lands 
where an old shadow of evil never quite lifted.
On hilltops from time to time ancient ruins can be spied. 
Narrow-windowed watchtowers and squat keeps were 
built by conquerors to guard the land they usurped; but 
now they are jagged remnants after a thousand years of 
abandonment and plunder. No adventurers or would-be 
warlords occupy them. Travellers pass by as swiftly as 
wisdom can take them. Only Trolls linger in the Trollshaws.
The Trolls come south from the Coldfells, the Ettenmoors 
and the mountains beyond. Weary of hunting sheep and 
wayward Orcs, they hunger for the meat of traders on the 
Great East Road, they thirst for the ales and wines that 
traders’ carts carry, and covet the gold of their treasure-
chests… what they love less is the gleaming steel of their 
guards’ swords…
These Trolls hide from the daylight in caves under high 
cliffs. Peoples of old quarried hard stone for their castles 
and left deep gouges in the rock of the hillsides and 
ravines. Sometimes a Troll-hole even sports a huge door 
for greater shelter; surely nothing a Troll could fashion, 
but perhaps the work of a sorry Dwarf enslaved for the 
task. By damp and unhappy night, the smartest of Trolls 
sometimes light campfires on the hilltops. Hill-fires are 
likeliest near the road, where unwary travellers might 
succumb to the promise of warmth and comfort. But the 
uneven, broken ground is trackless and pathless, choked 
with twisted roots and grasping branches, and climbing 
a hill for a campfire’s cheer leaves an exhausted traveller 
an easier prey. Finding a trail off the road might make 
the climb to the hilltops easier but should in fact be its 
own kind of warning: a meandering swath of broken trees 
and upturned stones, smashed and torn by huge, strong 
hands doesn’t bode well.
Combat Scenery: boulders, crags, fallen trees, 
foundations, pillars, ravines, rubble, thickets, unstable 
or windowed walls

--- PAGE 39 ---
39
Wildlife
Only animals too small for Trolls to catch thrive in the 
Trollshaws: hedgehogs and badgers, rabbits and foxes 
and mice. Even they live furtively, instinctively fearing the 
pall that lies over the Trolls’ domain. Birds are surprisingly 
rare – they fly to healthier woods – and birdsong is sadly 
lacking. Ponies and horses tend to be skittish and fearful, 
prone to bolting even if their masters are oblivious to the 
dangers of travelling here.
Notable Characters
Berk the Gatekeeper
A Stone-Troll named Berk lives near the Great East Road. 
Signs of his territory are plain to those who look: beech 
trees and pines knocked over or torn from their roots and 
scattered along the road on a stretch where the hillside 
rises up to the north and drops steeply to the south. Berk 
sometimes piles up the trees across the road as a barricade 
to force travellers to stop and move them (he calls this his 
‘gate’). When Berk’s luck holds, their work lasts till dark, 
or even better the travellers camp there for the night, and 
he can emerge and pillage.
Berk is quite proud of his scheme. He is even prouder of 
his home: a Troll-hole where the three Trolls lurked before 
The Land Between the Rivers
South of the great East Road, a wide region of wilderness lies between the courses of the rivers Hoarwell and 
Loudwater. It is a vast, savage country, where no wanderer goes, as no road or well-known track leads anywhere. A 
long time ago, tribes of Hobbits lived here, where the two rivers meet, before they left to escape the many cruel wars 
fought at that time, for the region was part of the evil realm of Rhudaur.
Since the end of the North-kingdom and the flight of the Witch-king of Angmar, this land has preserved one of 
the greatest secrets of the Third Age. When Aranarth took the title of Chieftain of the Dúnedain, his folk went 
into hiding. They became a wandering people, but they kept returning to a fastness in the wilderness, a stronghold 
secreted in the angle of land between Mitheithel and Bruinen. There, the Men of the West saved the line of the 
Kings of Men from disappearing from the North, nurturing their traditions and never ceasing to guard over the 
lands of Eriador. In this endeavour, the Rangers had always the allegiance of Elrond of Imladris, who protected the 
secret of the Rangers, and welcomed them in his house.
In game terms, when a Dúnadan companion goes home during a Fellowship phase, he may actually return to a 
hidden refuge of his folk somewhere in Eriador, or go back to the fastness of the Men of the West in the Angle.
n
n
n
a
c
Rivendell
The Angle
E
Castle Hill 
E
The Troll-Hole 
E
E
The Refuge of the 
Dúnedain
The Last 
Bridge
The Trollshaws
The Regions of Eastern Eriador

--- PAGE 40 ---
Rivendell Region Guide
40
they got themselves turned to stone a few years ago (see 
the Troll-Hole below). Berk is a Greater Stone Troll, see 
page 76 for his stats.
Berk’s ‘Gate’
Companions travelling with ponies, horses or a cart 
must clear the obstacle from the road to continue. 
Removing the trees from the road is an ability check 
requiring a DC 15 Strength (Athletics) check. Each 
attempt to clear the path requires an hour. If darkness 
falls, Berk arrives…
The Queen of Castle Hill
A solitary Stone-Troll named Rine haunts a tumble of 
ruins on a hillside that overlooks the Great East Road on 
the western end of the Trollshaws. She’s a huge creature 
who proclaims herself Queen of the Trollshaws because 
she lives in one of the few ruins that still offer enough 
shelter to protect a Troll from the sun, and because she 
gathered a number of old shields to cover herself with an 
effective suit of armour.
Other Trolls ignore her, except when she stumbles across 
them and robs them of whatever they’ve robbed from 
someone else. Rine’s home would make a fine shelter for 
travellers, if they didn’t mind the steep hike and if they 
could contrive a way to force her out. But sooner or later 
some other Troll would remember the Queen’s castle and 
take it over himself.
Rine’s hoard in the darkest corner of her castle includes 
50* in gold and finery that she’s taken from other, more 
industrious Trolls. Among the gold is buried a Dwarvish 
wind-up toybox. Rine kept it because she likes the painting 
of a Dragon on its top. See page 81 for stats of the Queen 
of Castle Hill.
The Dwarven Toybox
Rine’s hands are too big and clumsy to wind the tiny 
gear of the toybox, so she has not heard its hidden pipes 
play a Dwarvish victory tune as the box springs open, 
and she didn’t see the miniature Dragon that arises in 
a gout of flame and then falls again in dying smoke 
as the box closes. But in particular Rine didn’t see the 
spectral apparition that manifests when the toybox 
is played… The ghost of a small girl appears, the 
previous owner of the musical box, dancing in circles. 
If a companion exploring the hoard of Castle Hill 
makes a Magical Treasure roll and finds an unmarred 
Wondrous Artefact, then the little girl disappears after 
her dance. If, on the contrary, the toybox is Touched by 
the Shadow, the item is cursed with Ill-luck (see page 
101, and the girl keeps appearing to the companion 
every time he opens the toybox. The curse may be 
lifted if the toybox is brought to Lake-town, where 
the musical toy was purchased. The item possesses a 
Blessing to the Performance skill.
Notable Locations
The Troll-Hole
William Huggins and his friends Bert and Tom were 
garrulous, quarrelsome Stone-Trolls who lived in a 
hole near the road. They are now returned to the stone

--- PAGE 41 ---
41
that made them, having been trapped in the sunrise on 
a hillside by the cleverness of Gandalf the Grey, and 
passersby might pause and inspect the three stone statues.
Their Troll-hole remains, with a huge door on a single 
great hinge. Someday the hole will be abandoned again 
and forsaken for years, but for now it’s home to a Stone-
Troll named Berk (see Berk the Gatekeeper, on page 39). 
He was only too happy to learn that William Huggins and 
his lot had let themselves be turned to stone, because he 
had coveted their cave – and its heavy door – for longer 
than he could remember.
Berk’s hoard boasts 100* in gold coins, jewellery, and 
ingots of iron and copper, along with the skulls and bones 
of Dwarves and Men and ponies that he’s caught at his 
“gate” over the last few years.
The Refuge of the Dúnedain
Ten leagues east from Rine’s castle, another ancient ruin 
broods on a ridge north of the road. A narrow track 
carved into the earth of the steep hill offers the only safe 
way to reach the tower; once it was a road but the thickets 
overtook it long ago. Trolls tend to avoid it out of laziness. 
This has made it a useful shelter for Rangers of the North 
when they must travel through the Trollshaws. They have 
left the outer walls unchanged, and they know better than 
to light cook-fires whose smell will draw attention, but 
they have carefully shored up and rebuilt the tower gate 
and roof. It won’t sustain an attack if Trolls discover it, but 
it might slow them down enough to allow fugitives inside 
to escape.
The Rangers are careful to keep the tower a secret. They 
might come out to aid a beleaguered traveller but only 
after leaving the tower and approaching from another 
direction. Companions who set out to inspect every ruin 
along the road will eventually find the secrets of this one (a 
Ranger hero who has the The Star of the Dúnedain Cultural 
Heirloom automatically knows about it). If they linger and 
are careless, they’ll be discovered by Trolls in turn.
The Coldfells
North of Rivendell and the Trollshaws, the chilly uplands 
fall only reluctantly away from the mountains. High, 
steep hills and broad plateaus loom over deep crevasses. 
In some ravines the ground is soft and fertile enough for 
bogs to form, choked with biting flies in the summer and 
slick with icy muck in the winter. In more places, the bitter 
mountain streams trickle over hard and stony ground. 
In the folds of earth and rock, where weaker stone was 
carved away by water over the ages, caves and caverns 
offer shelter from the sun.
Hardy and sparse grasses spot the hills and here and there 
a thicket of trees grows atop a plateau. On some hilltops 
stand the ruins of ancient Rhudaur, the stumps of watch-
towers or keeps long fallen to rubble, insignificant dots 
atop the vast and sprawling fells. 
On some hills are the remnants of mossy cairns more 
ancient still, stony burial mounds of chiefs and warriors 
o
o
n
n
a
Rivendell
Mount Gram
E
Castle Hill 
E
The Troll-Hole 
E
E
The Refuge of the 
Dúnedain
Cairn of the Crag-king
E
The Burial Bog
E
E
Golfimbul’s Gully 
The Coldfells
The Regions of Eastern Eriador

--- PAGE 42 ---
Rivendell Region Guide
42
who died long before Arnor rose. Most of those are 
tumbled open, long since plundered by careless and 
powerful hands. Year by year, century by century, the old 
stones wither away. Already they are easy to mistake for 
any other rocks that litter the green and brown hills.
Travel is exhausting and fraught. The rocky ground is 
dangerous to the hooves of horses and ponies, and 
sudden steep drops that can be climbed by companions 
on foot will baffle the hardiest pack animals. It might 
be negotiated safely on horseback with slow and careful 
riding, but then lean and hungry wolves will soon close 
in. Wolves, or worse.
It is a dreary land between the headwaters of the Bruinen 
and the miry springs of the Hoarwell: cold and silent but 
for the howling of wolves, the rare cry of a bird of prey, or 
the bellow of a Troll that’s found a blood-hot meal. 
No wise travellers come to the Coldfells; even the most 
experienced Rangers of the North know little of it. Arador, 
chieftain of the Dúnedain, was captured and slain by Hill-
Trolls among the plateaus in TA 2930. Even his doughty 
people avoid it as a cursed and barren place.
Combat Scenery: bogs, cliffs, fallen trees, foundations, 
narrow cave-walls, ravines, rock edges, steep slopes, 
thickets
New Fellowship Phase Undertaking: 
Honouring the Fallen (Dúnedain only)
Few, save the High Elves of Rivendell, know the pain 
of watching their people fade from Middle-earth 
as keenly as the Rangers of the North. Each fallen 
Dúnadan thins the blood of Númenor and lessens the 
hope of the return of the King. Yet, the Rangers of 
the North have a great reverence for those who died 
in service to the Free Peoples, and knowing they carry 
Elendil’s legacy into the darkest days of the Third Age 
strengthens their resolve.
Ranger companions spending their Fellowship phase in 
Rivendell or at home may choose this undertaking to 
travel to the site where Arador was slain. Here, they 
leave flowers on a cold, still blood-stained stone hidden 
in the plateaus and remember not just their former 
lord, but all who have come before them. By drawing 
upon the strength of your ancestors and remembering 
the legacy of glories out of Númenor, you gain resolve 
in your struggles. In the following Adventuring phase, 
the first time you have Advantage on an ability check, 
attack roll or saving throw, you gain Inspiration after 
the dice are rolled.

--- PAGE 43 ---
43
Wildlife
Sheep and goats graze among the thickets and on the 
grasses of the highest places, where the treacherous 
ground is difficult for wolves and too much work for any 
but the hungriest Trolls. Sometimes the sheep wander, 
and then the wolves feed well. Otherwise the wolves 
pursue rabbits and mountain deer that venture too far 
into unwholesome lands. Pigeons nest among the rocks 
and are hunted by merlins and falcons.
Inhabitants
No Free Peoples live in the Coldfells. Even the Orcs and 
Goblins of Mount Gram never venture into it. It is home to 
Hill-Trolls in uncounted numbers, as strangers who enter 
among the fells are quick to learn. Stone-Trolls lurk here, 
too, but fewer. They have a long tradition of venturing out 
across the grass and hills from cave to deep thicket by 
night. 
Eventually the Hoarwell blocks their path and drives them 
south, or the Loudwater does and drives them west, into 
the Trollshaws and in sight of the road and its travellers. 
But the Hill-Trolls, more ferocious but less patient, remain.
Notable Characters
Bloodstump the Hunter
Hill-Trolls are rarely known by name, but one chief among 
them is more infamous than the rest. The monster called 
Bloodstump led the Hill-Trolls that pursued and slew 
Arador, chieftain of the Dúnedain, in 2930. 
A cruel and evil creature, Bloodstump didn’t need a reason 
to hunt for man-flesh, but he started to relentlessly prey 
on those dangerous little creatures that came hunting so 
far north after a visit to Mount Gram. The Troll entered 
the Orc-fastness following a strange urge his dull senses 
could not explain, and emerged from his depths wielding 
a great black mace, a dreadful weapon forged in Carn 
Dûm when Angmar threatened the North.
Armed with that strange gift, Bloodstump began his 
pursuit of the Rangers. On one fateful eve, his war-band 
encountered Arador and his men. Bloodstump cannily let 
other Hill-trolls rush forward at the onset of battle, and 
closed in when the tall Men were wounded and exhausted 
and their bright swords dulled. The great Hill-Troll chief 
and his bodyguard threw down the last of the Rangers 
and captured their chieftain for sport, thus securing 
Bloodstump’s fame.
Bloodstump’s own limbs are hale and frightfully hearty 
slabs of flesh hard as stone. See page 79 for a description 
of Bloodstump.
Notable Locations
The Cairn of the Crag-King
Atop the long steep slope of one of the greatest hills of 
the Coldfells, one ancient cairn rests undisturbed by the 
malevolence of plundering Trolls. The Trolls hold it in 
superstitious dread, fearing it as much as the peoples of 
Eriador fear the Coldfells themselves. 
The stones of the cairn are huge, six to eight feet across 
and three or four feet thick, gathered in a pile forty feet 
long and ten feet high. The Hill-Trolls only mutter to each 
other of the Crag-king lying beneath, a Giant of the old 
days and the old ways. Those Trolls with wit enough for 
memory say the Crag-king’s stone bones wait to stir and 
rise at the end of days when the hated sun fails at last.
If he’s disturbed before then… well, everyone knows what 
happens when you rouse a Troll. How much worse would 
the Crag-king be?
The Regions of Eastern Eriador

--- PAGE 44 ---
Rivendell Region Guide
44
What truly lies beneath the great stones, if anything, no 
one knows. Desperate companions might find respite 
on the Crag-king’s hill, where Trolls fear to go, but it’s a 
blighted place that requires a Corruption check (a DC 15 
Wisdom saving throw) once per day.
The Ettenmoors
‘We have come too far to the north,’ he said, ‘and we must 
find some way to turn back southwards again. If we keep 
on as we are going we shall get up into the Ettendales far 
north of Rivendell. That is Troll-country, and little known 
to me.’
Beyond the Coldfells, bleak highlands rise in the shadow 
of the Misty Mountains. The ground here is softer than 
in the Coldfells and the Trollshaws beyond. Incessant 
fog, drizzling rain and cold mountain springs soak into 
the greedy earth, which traps their waters in bogs atop 
the long, wide slopes and in the folds and valleys. Only 
slowly do the bogs seep out into streams that gather and 
ultimately become the mighty Hoarwell, which the Elves 
call Mitheithel.
The Ettenmoors are an open wasteland, thick with peat 
and overgrown with low green shrubs and hardy grass. 
Heather blooms briefly in the spring, but nothing of cheer 
can live long in the moors. Colourful bulbs soon darken 
and wither and leave the rolling hills grim and grey again.
There are few caves on the moors, so the Trolls that prowl 
that land take shelter from the wan sun beneath the peat 
of the bogs and emerge again at night, or are slowly 
turned into Ettins. Travellers venturing onto the moors 
might think themselves surprisingly safe by day, only to 
find a Troll lurking under their very camp and hungry by 
Sundown.
Between the Ettenmoors and the Coldfells lie the Ettendales: 
broad, open valleys running between high hills, wet with 
fog and the streams that feed the growing Hoarwell. Some 
of the valleys, particularly west of the Hoarwell’s streams, 
might have made fine farmlands in the days when Men 
lived on the moors and Trolls did not venture too near. But 
those days were long, long ago.
Anyone foolish enough to travel there might stumble 
across ruins and the rubble of stout stone farmhouses 
crumbling for a thousand years and long since torn down 
and burned.
Combat Scenery: bogs, cliffs, fallen trees, moorland 
heather, old walls, pits, rock edges, rubble, varied slopes
Wildlife
Voles, hares, frogs and vipers crawl and slither among 
the scrub brush and grasses of the moors and dales. 
There may have been deer upon a time, but they are long 
extinct since the region gave over to Trolls. Wolves on the 
Ettenmoors are sometimes a danger as serious as Trolls.

--- PAGE 45 ---
45
They prefer darkness but can pursue their quarry by day, 
and they have a long affiliation with the cruel Wargs and 
the Hill-men of Rhudaur.
Inhabitants
The moors and dales were home to Men in three ages of 
Middle-earth, but no longer. For a thousand years they have 
been abandoned, ever since the defeat of the Witch-king at 
the Battle of Fornost – deserted by all but the hardy Trolls 
that survived the destruction of the fleeing Wraith-lord’s 
forces. Today the Ettenmoors and Ettendales are home only 
to those Trolls – mainly Stone-Trolls and a handful of Hill-
Trolls – and to the creatures that give these regions their 
name: the Ettins, an older and stronger kind of Troll, who 
are rumoured to survive even the direct light of the sun…
Notable Characters
Dreorg the Wargling
Long ago there was a chieftain-priest of the Gundabad Hill-
men named Dreorg. Dreorg was a master of the sorcery 
by which some Hill-men leave their bodies and take the 
shape of wolves by night to hunt and slay. As these things 
go, Dreorg’s rule was overthrown. As his rivals battered 
down the door to his hall, Dreorg fled his body and his 
spirit joined a Warg-pack nearby. As a spear plunged 
into his heart, Dreorg’s spirit seized onto one of the wild 
wolves and refused to depart. The two spirits struggled 
but Dreorg proved the master.
Many years have passed. Now Dreorg is a Warg chief, 
master of a band of cunning wolves filled with malice who 
moved West into Eriador. They know their chief is slightly 
mad — sometimes his snarling seems to be two voices 
vying with each other — but he is wise and vicious and 
boundlessly cruel, which gives them all strength. See page 
80 for Dreorg the Wargling’s description.
Notable Locations
The Burial Bog
On the southern fringe of the Ettenmoors, a bog between 
two wide rising slopes holds unhappy remnants of the 
past. Here the Men of Gondor and the Elves of Imladris 
and Lindon rode down the rear-guard of the fleeing 
Witchking. The corpses were abandoned to the bog. But in 
the bog things decay slowly.
A thousand years later the bodies can still be seen, withered 
and stained black by brackish water but recognisable. Even 
their swords are with them, a little corroded but still stout.
o
o
n
n
Mount Gram
E
The Refuge of the 
Dúnedain
Cairn of the Crag-king
E
The Burial Bog
E
E
Golfimbul’s Gully 
The Grey Waste 
The Ettenmoors
The Regions of Eastern Eriador

--- PAGE 46 ---
Rivendell Region Guide
46
What’s worse, though, is that during his rule over Angmar 
the Witch-king employed many sorcerous means to 
defeat his hated enemies. He sent evil spirits to haunt 
their barrows and cairns, including those of their ancient 
ancestors on the Ettendales and the Coldfells, and wove 
many dreadful spells. When the Witch-king fled, the Trolls 
that remained overturned the old cairns and barrows, 
leaving them exposed and plundered.
In time, the Witch-king’s sorcery was dissipated, but it 
lingers still in dark places, such as where the bogs hide 
countless bodies under the peat and away from the light 
of day.
If travellers pass or sleep near the bog by night, the bodies 
of the soldiers of Angmar may stir and attempt to pull 
them into the water (see pages 83-84 for a description of 
the Bog Soldiers).
Ettins
Every traveller knows that Stone-Trolls turn to stone 
if exposed to the light of the sun. But only the Wise 
suspect that sometimes a spark of life survives inside 
them, ready to be roused by the dark will of their 
Master. In fact, a number of strange rock formations 
can be seen in the Ettenmoors; some of these weathered 
piles of stones are actually very ancient Stone-Trolls, 
caught at some time by surprise by the light of a 
distant Sun.
These Ettins, as they are called, are today almost 
indistinguishable from great piles of rock when they 
stand still, and they rarely move at all. But if they 
do, they are extremely dangerous as they are animated 
by a reckless brutality and thirst for destruction. See 
page 76 for more about Ettins.
Mount Gram
A long spur juts out of the western Misty Mountains, far 
into the north. For a hundred miles its slopes spread out 
and curve northward, as if to point to the ruins of accursed 
Angmar where the Witch-king once dwelt. The tallest, most 
jagged, most threatening peak in this spur is Mount Gram, 
a horn of rock rising from the slopes of other mountains 
as if they collapsed under its weight. Thousands of years 
ago it was delved and fortified by Dwarves, but it is now a 
home to monsters in a blighted land.
Deep beneath its roots is a Goblin fastness, a complex maze 
of a thousand holes and pits. For centuries, the Orcs of the 
Misty Mountains inhabiting Mount Gram have bitterly 
fought against the Rangers guarding the regions to the 
west of the Ettenmoors, the Coldfells and Trollshaws, and 
against the guardians of the hidden sanctuary of Imladris. 
Out of its gates issued the invading army that was defeated 
centuries ago at the Battle of Greenfields, when a Hobbit 
muster led by Bandobras Took, the Bullroarer, routed the 
Goblin horde of King Golfimbul.
o
o
o
o
n
n
Angmar
Mount Gram
Lone-lands
Cairn of the Crag-king
E
The Burial Bog
E
E
Golfimbul’s Gully 
The Grey Waste 
E
The Frozen Path 
E
The Peak of 
Mount Gram
Mount Gram

--- PAGE 47 ---
47
Combat Scenery: cliffs, crags, disturbing echoes, low 
ceilings (caves), narrow walls (caves), pits, rock edges, 
steep slopes, unstable stalactites (caves).
Wildlife
Mount Gram holds horrors within, but its cold slopes 
show little sign. Rugged goats and sheep range the slopes 
and eat the hardy grasses that cling here and there to the 
thin soil and rock. Mountain hares and red squirrels dig in 
the shadows of high pine stands, watched by ptarmigans 
and finches and pursued by snowy owls. The magpies 
watch such antics from their high perches on the slopes of 
the mountain. There’s better hunting on the grim slopes of 
Mount Gram than in any of the Troll-lands to the south, 
but if Goblin look-outs spot intruders, a hunting party of 
their own is sure to emerge.
Inhabitants
Mount Gram has been home to tribes of Orcs and 
Goblins since they first seized Mount Gundabad and the 
surrounding mountains and tunnels from the Dwarves 
in the middle of the Second Age. For more than three 
thousand years it was an Orc stronghold overlooking the 
west. Its strength was redoubled at the end of the Second 
Age when the Dúnedain founded the kingdom of Arnor, 
“right on our doorstep” as the Orc-chiefs put it.
When the Witch-king came to Angmar in the Third Age, the 
Orcs of Mount Gram were ready to serve. In the middle of 
the Third Age, the forces of Gondor, Lindon and Imladris 
put the Witch-king of Angmar to flight and destroyed all 
of his works and peoples. Mount Gram was not spared, 
although deep tunnels known to no Elf or Man surely hid 
many a fleeing Goblin.
Two hundred years ago, around TA 2740, Orcs and 
Goblins began multiplying in the mountains and infesting 
Eriador once again. From Mount Gram a great Orc-
chieftain led warbands to burn and pillage far away. That 
took them to the Shire, whose little people looked to be the 
best possible pickings. But the Hobbits destroyed the Orc 
warband and slew its chief, Golfimbul. Mount Gram has 
grown and the evil in it has deepened ever since. Many 
Stone-Trolls and even Hill-Trolls have been brought in 
from the Ettenmoors that stretch away to the south, and 
Cave-Trolls have lumbered through endless tunnels from 
deep in the Misty Mountains. The raiding Orcs and Trolls 
of Mount Gram make the countryside of haunted Angmar 
deadly. They cast hungry eyes to the south-west and the 
seemingly defenceless lands of Hobbits and Men, but they 
have been bade to wait. And so the years pass as Mount 
Gram festers.
 
The Orcs of Mount Gram reserve a special degree of spite 
for Hobbits. Most creatures of the Shadow seem surprised 
that Hobbits even exist, but the Mount Gram Orcs 
remember Greenfields. See pages 78-79 for more about 
the Orcs of Mount Gram.
The Regions of Eastern Eriador

--- PAGE 48 ---
Rivendell Region Guide
48
Notable Characters
The Wraith-lord of Mount Gram
For almost one hundred years the Orcs of Mount Gram 
haven’t had a king, until a Shadow came to haunt the 
empty throne: the Lord of the Nazgûl had returned to 
the lands he once ruled as Witch-king as an invisible 
Wraithlord, to strike a final blow to the dying line of 
Elendil as his last act of vengeance.
From that night, the Orcs and Trolls of Mount Gram 
resumed their attacks on the Rangers and the lands they 
protected with unprecedented resolve and deviousness. 
Elrond, Lord of Imladris, didn’t fail to recognise a guile 
uncommon to Goblins of any kind behind the aggression, 
and warned the Rangers. His words came too late, 
though, and in TA 2930 a band of Hill-Trolls ambushed 
the chieftain of the Rangers and captured him. Arador 
was never seen again, and only three years later his son 
Arathorn was slain as he rode against the Orcs of Mount 
Gram with the sons of Elrond. Thinking to have erased 
the blood of the Northern Kings from history forever, 
the Wraith-lord vacated the throne of Mount Gram, 
disappearing as silently as he first came. See the Lord 
of the Nazgûl’s description on page 87 for more on the 
Wraith-lord.
Radgul the Orc-Chief
The chieftain of all the Orcs of Mount Gram is Radgul, 
a wily, sneering, and deadly old villain with designs on 
greater things than his own mountain.
Radgul and his Orcs are removed by a hundred miles 
from Mount Gundabad where Bolg ruled, and the Orcs of 
Mount Gram never made it to the Battle of Five Armies. At 
the time Radgul considered that an insult, but afterwards 
he was happy to have missed the debacle. He only wished, 
in the secrecy of thought, that Bolg’s army had been 
destroyed even more thoroughly so he could march on 
Gundabad and take the throne for himself.
Radgul is patient. He knows Bolg’s offspring Gorgol covets 
the throne. but he knows Gorgol remains a laughingstock 
after his headlong flight from the battle. Radgul is not in 
any of the factions of Mount Gundabad, but he doesn’t 
need to be. He is counting on Gorgol’s ambition to cause 
just enough strife that the next time there’s a crisis, 
Gundabad’s tribes will make a meal of it and Mount 
Gram’s tribes will step in to do things right. Of course,

--- PAGE 49 ---
49
Radgul wouldn’t have to think hard about sticking a 
knife in Gorgol and all his Gundabad rivals, too, if the 
opportunity came up. What’s more likely to foul things up 
for Radgul is his old grudge against Hobbits. If any Orcs of 
Mount Gram spy even a single Hobbit near the mountain, 
the Orcs will take it as a warning of war and Radgul will 
be right at the front, preparing to march on the Shire even 
though such a march will scatter his followers and leave 
them vulnerable to threats from every side. 
See Radgul’s description on page 74.
Notable Locations
Golfimbul’s Gully
Travellers journeying north from the Ettenmoors might 
be tempted to shorten their trek across this inhospitable 
region by taking a path cutting across the near-impassable 
mountain range. It is a jagged, shallow cleft that passes 
through the ancient stone of the mountain, cut by ages of 
rain and wear. Its high walls of natural stone are smooth 
and its floor is as slick as a riverbed. It is an easy passage; 
but certainly not a safe one.
Radgul and his servants watch it under cover of darkness, 
slipping between the shadows cast by massive stones that 
have been worn into odd shapes by the progress of years, 
ready to ambush any travellers. The gully itself winds to 
and fro, with several pathways that separate from the 
main cleft only to double back, go in endless circles or 
lead to dead ends where would-be assassins wait for easy 
prey.
The Peak of Mount Gram
Rising almost to the heights of the Misty Mountains 
themselves, the very top of Mount Gram is a snowcapped 
horn of broken rock. There nest great flocks of magpies, 
birds deemed to be cunning and wicked, even more than 
the Crebain of the south. Attracted by shiny objects, 
they watch with keen eyes for any gleam of precious 
metal or stone that might pass under their gaze. The rare 
mountaineer who makes his way to the top of Mount Gram 
finds circles of stones cobbled together with scattered 
bones and even stolen weapons and other treasure, 
claimed by the magpies of Mount Gram. It is said that 
great artefacts can be found here, if one could only survive 
the climb (see The Magpies of Mount Gram below).
The Magpies of Mount Gram
Companions travelling close to Mount Gram may rouse the curiosity of the magpies nesting atop the peak. If 
anyone in the group is carrying a Wondrous Artefact or a Legendary Weapon, the canny birds will try to steal it. 
A DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check enables the Hunter of the Company to notice that an unusual number of the 
birds are keeping watch over them. If the roll fails, the magpies quietly steal a targeted object (how these small 
birds can carry away a sword should remain a mystery!). The character carrying the object may make a DC 20 
(Wisdom) Perception check to avoid being fooled.
If the heroes want to recover what has been taken from them, or if they noticed the magpies and located their nests 
(a DC 15 Intelligence (Investigation) check), they may attempt to climb the mountain to the top. The trek is a 
lengthy endeavour, taking at least a couple of days. The first day is a long and tiring walk, but devoid of any real 
danger (unless they did something to alert the local Orcs…). The last day is a different thing: to get to the top of 
the peak, the heroes will have to climb a rock face, trying not to fall below. Each hero must make three DC 20 
Strength (Athletics) checks to climb the steep slopes.
A companion with an appropriate Region-lore speciality may either invoke his Trait to gain Advantage on his own 
checks or assist another climber and give them Advantage on their Athletics checks. Heroes who fail an Athletics 
check fall for 20 feet, or for 50 feet if they roll a 1 on the d20. Any companion who braves — and survives — the 
ascent to Mount Gram will find a hoard containing 20** Treasure (and all the items stolen from them).
The Regions of Eastern Eriador

--- PAGE 50 ---
Rivendell Region Guide
50
Angmar
Far to the north, beyond Mount Gram and the furthest 
peaks of the Misty Mountains, is the forsaken land that 
almost a thousand years ago was known as the realm of 
Angmar. From his dark capital of Carn Dûm in the north, 
the Witch-king commanded ruin and terror and brought 
about the collapse of the northern kingdom of Arnor. But 
that dire servant of Sauron was then defeated in turn, and 
the strongholds of Angmar were destroyed.
As the Twilight of the Third Age approaches, the ancient 
domain of the Wraith-king seems to heed the call of the 
Dark Lord, now again revealed in Mordor. Blinding snows 
sweep down from the jagged peaks of the Mountains 
of Angmar in winter, and evil Men and Orcs are slowly 
making their way north in ever greater numbers from 
the east and south. Trolls are now found north of the 
Ettenmoors, crossing the Grey Waste stretching between 
their own lands and the Mountains of Angmar.
Though the Dúnedain and the High Elves of Rivendell keep 
a wary eye upon this land, few ever venture that far north. 
Those that did journey there returned with tales of a great 
desert of grey scrub and gnarled trees that mar the land. 
Once within sight of the Mountains of Angmar, freezing 
winds to rival the worst of the Redhorn Pass make travel 
all but impossible. It is a land without life, where winter 
dwells forever and a chill beyond that of natural storms 
cuts to the marrow.
The broken stones and high peaks that mark the northern 
border of old Angmar are capped with ice and snow. 
The roads that run among the high hills facing these 
foreboding peaks are hard to find by all but those who 
know the secret paths carved by the Witch-king long ago. 
Rare is the traveller who finds them by chance and though 
such a thing may seem a blessing in this harsh place, all 
roads before the Mountains of Angmar lead to one place:
Carn Dûm, the heart of darkness in the North.
Combat Scenery: crags, dead silences, eerie mist, freezing 
cold, lone trees, scattered rocks, unsettling atmospheres
Wildlife
Today, the old realm of Angmar is a dead land, inhabited 
only by those wild animals used to the harsh conditions of 
a desert. Snakes hide under the rocks, carrion-birds perch 
on the barren trees, patiently waiting for another Orc to be 
felled by the blade of an enraged companion. Lean, grey 
wolves descend from the mountains to go hunting west 
and south.
The grey skies above the Grey Waste have recently come to 
life with the flight of many black buzzards, who watch the 
paths and roads trod by those Trolls, Orcs and evil Men 
o
o
Angmar
Carn Dum
Mount Gram
Mountains of Angmar
E
The Grey Waste 
E
The Frozen Path 
E
The Peak of 
Mount Gram
Angmar
>

--- PAGE 51 ---
51
who enter the region. These minions and slaves march 
north in small groups and vanish into the foothills of the 
Mountains of Angmar. No scout from Rivendell or Ranger 
has been foolhardy enough to follow them closer than a 
few leagues of Carn Dûm, so their ultimate destination is 
unknown.
Inhabitants
The region that became known as the realm of Angmar 
was originally inhabited by a worthy folk of strong and 
hardy Men. They toiled hard and long to carve a meagre 
existence in an unforgiving land, and were not prepared 
for war when evil Men came among them and enslaved 
them by force of arms and sorcerous means. For these 
invaders were servitors of the Dark Lord, and from their 
allegiance to the Shadow they had gained great gifts. 
When in a later age of the world the Lord of the Nazgûl 
came to this land, he was welcomed by the descendants of 
that folk, by that time turned fully to evil ways, and made 
their Witch-king.
At the peak of its power, the realm of Angmar extended 
its influence on both sides of the Misty Mountains. Its 
armies gathered many evil Men and Orcs, and other 
fell creatures. When the Lord of the Nazgûl was finally 
defeated in the Battle of Fornost, these corrupted people 
were routed and fled, scattering across the land. The 
remnant of those foul slaves established small camps in 
the valleys along the southern borders of the Grey Waste, 
or hid in mountain caves. In time, these settlements 
became villages, and they were able to endure in the 
darkened North.
Recently, the former minions of the Witch-king have 
started again to traverse the Grey Waste heading north, 
to approach the secret roads that lead to Carn Dûm as if 
they were unified by some dark will. Hill-men and Goblins 
alike can be seen plying their way across the waste and 
then the snow, as if searching for something dark and lost 
– maybe remembered only in broken songs in the honour 
of their long-absent lord.
Notable Characters
Burzash, Orc Warlord
One among the many Orcs that are being drawn out of 
their lairs in the mountains to journey north towards 
Carn Dûm, Burzash is not satisfied leading only his 
own tribe. Moving across Angmar, Burzash has set his 
will to dominating lesser Orcs and uniting them under 
his banner. He is a fierce creature, commanding and 
The Regions of Eastern Eriador

--- PAGE 52 ---
Rivendell Region Guide
52
merciless. Gathering Orcs, Goblins and Hill-men to him, 
he moves across the Grey Waste, slaughtering those who 
do not bow to his will.
Burzash is a Great Orc, as seen in the Adventures in 
Middle-earth Loremaster’s Guide on page 97. He typically 
travels with a large warband composed of Goblins of 
Carn Dûm (see page 77), Hill-men of Rhudaur (see page 
77-78), and reinforced by a pair of great Mountain-
Trolls (page 109 of the Loremaster’s Guide) whom he 
had attracted to his service under the promise of war and 
slaughter. The entire warband counts as Bloodthirsty and 
are a Vengeful Band.
The Steward of Carn Dûm
When the Witch-king was forced to abandon Carn Dûm 
following his defeat, the fortress was not fully destroyed, 
as its foundations were too strong even for the Men of the 
West to shatter. In its deepest recesses many creatures 
were allowed to endure, and many dwell there still. Among 
those wretched shades lurks he who was once deemed to 
be a sorcerer of dark and terrible power: the Steward of 
Carn Dûm.
At the time of the witch-realm, he could be spied on the 
highest battlements of the black citadel of Carn Dûm, as 
he gazed down upon the frozen and black realm, casting 
his auspices at the service of the Witch-king.
The Steward of the citadel has never left the dungeons of 
the broken fortress, as he was appointed a task he will 
never betray. When the Lord of the Nazgûl left Carn Dûm to 
go and fight at the Battle of Fornost, he left the Iron Crown 
The Hill-men of Rhudaur
Hill-men have inhabited the northernmost lands of Eriador since before the foundation of the North Kingdom, 
forced to the inhospitable hills and mountains of Rhudaur by the advancing Númenóreans. Their resentment and 
persecution first led them willingly into an alliance with Angmar, and then into servitude. 
Upon the defeat of the Witch-king, many of the Hill-men that once served him fled across the Misty Mountains 
and now dwell about the Vales of Gundabad (see Rhovanion Region Guide, page 14). But some remained in the 
cold wastes of Angmar, hiding in caves and secret valleys lest the vengeful armies of Gondor and High Elves slay 
them. Their descendants hide still, degenerate, wild warriors who live and fight with the Goblins of this region. In 
the past few years, something has been calling them back to the black towers of Carn Dûm, a call felt in their blood.
Sorcery of the Hill-men
The sorcery of the Hill-men of Rhudaur is very old. At the time of the kingdom of Angmar, those who were deemed 
to be the most powerful among them were taught by the Witch-king himself, and acted as his messengers. Their 
descendants are not nearly as powerful or cunning as their wicked ancestors, but the Hill-men of Rhudaur never 
completely forsook the dark gifts of the Wraith-lord. (Learn more of the Hill-men’s sorcery on page 78).

--- PAGE 53 ---
53
of Angmar in his keeping. Thus the life of the Steward 
was spared the wreck of that defeat, and the crown didn’t 
follow the Witch-king in his flight. In the centuries that 
followed, the Steward was slowly consumed by the power 
residing in the Iron Crown: he become a Fell Wraith, a 
weak reflection of its Master.
The Steward of Carn Dûm today is a shade among shades, 
perpetually wrapped in a robe of rich crimson, his facial 
features hidden beneath the shadows of his heavy hood. 
He haunts the deepest cells of the dark capital of ancient 
Angmar, where he patiently awaits the return of the 
Morgul-lord. Once this happens, he will kneel once more 
before the Lord of the Nazgûl and will offer him what he 
has kept secret for centuries: the Iron Crown of Angmar.
The Steward is a Fell Wraith possessing both Black Dread 
and Wicked Cunning. He knows Words of Power and 
Terror as well, ranking him at Challenge 4. 
The Iron Crown of Angmar
At the time of his relentless war against the Northern 
Realm of the Dúnedain, the Lord of the Nazgûl 
commanded that a heavy crown of iron be forged in 
Carn Dûm, using the blades that belonged to those 
princes of Arnor that he defeated on the field of battle 
or by black treachery. 
As the war progressed, the crown became heavier, as 
many prongs were added to it. When the Witch-king 
deserted Angmar to flee south, he left his crown in the 
keeping of his Steward. And there it remained, in a 
secret cell under the main tower of Carn Dûm.
The Iron Crown of Angmar is too large and heavy to 
be worn by any Mortal or Elf. Should its location 
become known, the Rangers of the North would do 
anything to find it; the blades that adorn it have been 
taken from many lords who gave their lives in the wars 
against Angmar. But the Lord of the Ringwraiths 
would be even more relentless to find it first, should 
he discover that the crown was not lost; he reserved a 
special place on its crown for any sword belonging to 
an Heir of Elendil…
The Iron Crown of Angmar is the equivalent of 
a Wondrous Artefact with a Greater Blessing to 
Intimidation, but it is heavily cursed: it is considered 
Owned (by the Witch-king), Hunted and carrying a 
Shadow Taint for 4 Shadow points (see Cursed Items, 
starting on  page 99).
Notable Locations
The Grey Waste
The vast stretch of blighted and broken land to the south 
of the Mountains of Angmar is barren and harsh. Known 
as the Grey Waste for the ash-like dust that covers it and 
the patches of faded scrub that pock the landscape, it is an 
unforgiving place. It is here that the great armies of Men 
and Orcs that once served the Witch-king used to muster, 
and where they encountered their ultimate destruction. 
The Regions of Eastern Eriador

--- PAGE 54 ---
Rivendell Region Guide
54
The wasteland is dotted with the ruins of their ancient 
encampments and watchtowers, broken by the wrath of 
the Men of the West and their victorious allies. The many 
roads and tracks that connected those settlements are 
now buried in the fine, grey dust that chokes everything 
when stirred by the cold winds.
The silence that reigns on the Grey Waste at night is broken 
only by the moans and cries of the many ghosts that 
wander aimlessly in the dark. Hopeless is the wanderer 
that dares to explore the ruins of the Grey Waste, for when 
the Sun fails and the moon is dead the restless Spectres 
of the unlucky Men who were deceived by the promises of 
the Morgul-lord go out to haunt any living being with their 
laments (see page 85 for more information on Spectres).
The Frozen Path
Those who brave the Grey Waste and reach the foothills 
of the Mountains of Angmar may stumble upon the traces 
of the ancient road that servants of the Witch-king carved 
through this merciless land. Known as the Frozen Path, 
this hidden trail winds in the shadow of massive peaks, 
atop the crest of naked hills and along high cliffs and 
down into low, snow-filled dales. 
At times, advancing on the path becomes extremely 
dangerous to all but the most experienced of mountaineers, 
as the road crosses over open chasms by means of thin 
bridges of rock, or is blasted by freezing winds. If followed, 
the Frozen Path connects all the watchtowers built along 
the Mountains of Angmar, even if to reach most of the 
existing ones secret tracks leaving the path must first be 
found and then followed.
Winds from the Wastes
The cold winds that blow among the Mountains of 
Angmar carry upon them fell voices, whispers coming 
from the frozen wastes of the far North. All those who 
hear their call are beset by fear and doubt, and only the 
most strong-willed and fearless are able to cast aside 
the shadows summoned in their minds. Companions 
travelling along the Frozen Path must pass a DC 10 
Wisdom saving throw or become Frightened until they 
take a long rest.
The Watchtowers
Carn Dûm was the capital of the witch-realm of Angmar, 
and the roads that led to that citadel where protected by 
many towers and keeps, built against the high peaks of 
the northern mountain range. There, the foul servants of 
the Morgul-lord maintained stores of arms and from their 
gates they struck swiftly and brutally any enemy who 
dared to approach. 
The Men of the West destroyed most of these towers, 
leaving only piles of large blocks of stone. But some 
survived, as they were hidden among inaccessible crags, 
or perched up on high, where the ice defended them from 
the anger of the Dúnedain.
Today, small lights appear briefly behind the arrow-slits 
of some of these ancient keeps, snuffed out hastily by 
creatures made furtive by vows of secrecy. One by one, 
these long-abandoned towers are manned again, and 
their ancient stonework is repaired and made ready. Once 
they are all filled, Angmar might once again be considered 
a living realm, the staging ground for the Enemy’s armies 
in the North.
Carn Dûm
Under the rulership of the Witch-king hordes of servants of 
the Dark Lord issued from the mighty gates of Carn Dûm 
to prey upon the North for almost seven hundred years. 
After the defeat of the Lord of the Nazgûl and his armies at 
the Battle of Fornost in the year 1975 of the Third Age, most 
of the settlements and strongholds of the dark kingdom of 
Angmar were destroyed and their inhabitants driven into 
hiding. But its capital could not be annihilated fully, and 
something has been permitted to lie in its deeps, waiting, 
and now it has awakened again as the world darkens. 
Though the citadel is wrapped in ice and broken, it stirs 
once more to life.
The citadel of Carn Dûm was crafted in mockery of 
Númenórean architecture. Its towers rise from the very 
stone of the northernmost mountains of Angmar. Its gates 
can be found beyond a great cleft between two high ridges 
of black stone known as the Red Valley. But the citadel 
itself just gives a hint of its true vastness; caverns run deep 
into the mountains and to the very depths of the earth. No 
one has explored these tunnels. Whispers and rumours

--- PAGE 55 ---
55
speak of passages leading to gigantic underground halls 
and great forges, once used to craft arms, armour and 
machinery for the war against Arnor.
In recent times, Orcs, Hill-men and Trolls have started to 
return to this desolate place, as if something was calling 
them back. What they find there when they arrive no one 
knows yet. If indeed the dark flame of the Enemy has been 
rekindled in the North, then surely it burns hottest in the 
halls of Carn Dûm.
The South Downs 
and Weather Hills
On its route to the mountains, the great East Road passes 
between two regions of hilly terrain. To the south, low, 
green hills run from east to west, for more than one 
hundred miles. Called the South Downs, it is a lonely 
land, deserted since many long years. Here, the folk of 
the lost realm of Cardolan took their last refuge, trying to 
escape a great plague that came from the south and killed 
most of their people.
North of the road and to the east of the Midgewater 
Marshes is another line of hills rolling northwards and 
called the Weather Hills. The highest of them, Weathertop, 
is the closest to the old road, its conical shape ending in 
a flat top. On this high place, crumbling stone walls and 
stairs rise from the earth in a circle of jagged stone teeth 
broken by the passage of many long years.
Streams criss-cross the hidden dells and alder-trees 
can be seen sprouting up in small patches. In the clefts 
among the heights stand the ruins of old works of stone, 
overgrown walls and half-filled dikes. But the ruins on 
Weathertop are by far the most prominent feature of this 
region. Here stood a great watch-tower, raised in the days 
The Regions of Eastern Eriador

--- PAGE 56 ---
Rivendell Region Guide
56
of Elendil the Tall. Only the Dúnedain and those wise in 
old lore remember the Tower of Amon Sûl as anything 
more than a place of ill-omen. The Rangers of the North 
often come to the Hill of the Wind, as its height commands 
a wide view of the surrounding countryside. The Men of 
Bree and others too foolish to know any better say that 
those wandering folk gather there to speak on dark and 
private business.
The Weather Hills are a country that is rarely traversed 
by any but the most hardy of wanderers. Swift and cold 
streams run between the hillsides and clever paths cut to 
hide those who walk upon them can be found only by a 
keen-eyed scout. Unwary travellers can become lost for 
days. They often find themselves tumbled out upon the 
region’s western side, facing the long stretch of insect-
infested bogs and fens of the Midgewater Marshes. Those 
who know their way may gain the top of the highest hills 
and gaze far off instead.
Combat Scenery: ancient dykes, birdsong, bogs, broken 
stairs, foundations, old walls, pits, thickets
New Fellowship Phase Undertaking: 
Find and Prepare Athelas
"...it is a healing plant that the Men of the West 
brought to Middle-earth. Athelas they named it, and 
it grows now sparsely and only near places where they 
dwelt or camped of old..."
Kingsfoil is regarded as little more than a weed by 
most folks of Middle-earth, but those who are wise 
know it was once called athelas and that it has great 
healing virtues. A companion spending a Fellowship 
phase in Rivendell (or a Dúnadan at home) may 
choose this undertaking to go and find athelas in the 
wilds of old Arnor.
The 
hero 
must 
make 
a 
DC 
15 
Intelligence 
(Investigation) check to locate the plant. On a basic 
success, the hero has found enough athelas for two 
salves, three if they succeeded by 5 or more, or four 
salves’ worth if they rolled a 20. The Herb-lore 
speciality can provide Advantage or a Proficiency 
Bonus on this check, as on page 121 of the Adventures 
in Middle-earth Player’s Guide.
Then the hero must make up the salves. For each salve, 
the hero must make a DC 10 Wisdom check. On a 
success the salve is ready for use. Companions with 
a herbalism kit may add their Proficiency Bonus to 
these checks. For the effects of an athelas salve, see 
page 154 of the Adventures in Middle-earth Player’s 
Guide.
Wildlife
The South Downs and the Weather Hills seem almost 
devoid of wild creatures to those who wander the land. 
In truth, their cold, clear streams teem with fish, and in 
the Weather Hills many small birds live off the swarms 
of midges that the wind carries over from the Midgewater 
Marshes. Nightfall in this land brings the sound of howling 
wolves echoing in the valleys, though those feral beasts 
are seldom seen around the area. This doesn’t prevent any 
travellers traversing the region from seeking refuge upon 
the summit of Amon Sûl in the the evening.
n
n
a
c
o
South Downs
Weather 
Hills
North Downs
Barrow
Downs
Weathertop
E
Bree
Fornost Erain
Midgewater
Marshes
Bree-land
E
E
The Great 
Barrow Stone
E
Greenway
E
The Wolf-Den of 
the South Downs
The Dome 
of Sight
E
The South Downs 
and Weather Hills

--- PAGE 57 ---
57
Inhabitants
No Men make their abode in the Weather Hills or in the 
South Downs. Only the Rangers come here, to keep a 
watchful eye upon the great East Road. But they built no 
settlements on these heights. When they make camp on 
the hills, the Rangers of the North go to great lengths to 
conceal their passage.
Notable Characters
The Warden of Amon Sûl
The Rangers of the North try to make sure that there is 
always at least one of their company near Amon Sûl, to 
both tend the ruined tower and watch the old road.No one 
is here more often than Arbarad. This stoic, travel-worn 
wanderer spends many days scouring the land, watching 
for trespassing creatures and looking for any ancient 
testimony of the lost realm of his people. While dedicated 
to his tasks, Arbarad is also always ready to help lost 
wanderers find their way back to the road, should they 
become lost in the maze-like hills.
Motivation: This is a dangerous land; you should not 
wander from the Road or you will come to a bad end.
Expectations: +1 if the Company has a Dúnadan or 
High Elf; -2 if they insist that they are ‘adventurers’ who 
are prepared for the Wild — Arbarad has too often buried 
those who made similar claims.
Arbarad
Medium Human
STR 
13 (+1)
DEX 
15 (+2)
CON 
14 (+2)
INT 
15 (+2)
WIS 
16 (+3)
CHA 
8 (-1)
Armour Class 14 (Leather Corslet)
Hit Points 65 (10d8+20)
Speed 30 ft
Skills History +4, Perception +7, Survival +5
Senses passive Perception 17
Languages Westron, Sindarin
Challenge 3 (700 XP)
Deadly Names. Arbarad can spend his bonus action to 
add 3 (1d6) radiant damage to a servant of the Enemy 
that he has just struck in combat.
Hunter. Arbarad gains +2 to all of his Perception checks 
(included above).
Secret Places. If Arbarad is in the South Downs, the 
Weather Hills or the North Downs he always knows a place 
where the Company may take a long rest. It requires a 
successful Audience for Arbarad to lead them there, however. 
Actions
Multiattack. Arbarad can make two attacks with either 
his Long Sword or his Great Bow.
Long Sword. Melee Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 5 (1d8+1) slashing damage or 6 (1d10+1) 
slashing damage if wielded with two hands.
Great Bow. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, range 
150/600 ft, one target. Hit: 6 (1d8+2) piercing damage.
The Regions of Eastern Eriador

--- PAGE 58 ---
Rivendell Region Guide
58
Notable Locations
Weathertop
Known in Sindarin as Amon Sûl, the Hill of the Wind, 
Weathertop is more than just a circle of burnt and broken 
ruins atop a high place. The path that leads north from 
the top of the hill used to connect Amon Sûl with the other 
fortified places built on the Weather Hills. In fact, the 
tower was a part of a complex of fortifications set along a 
border between warring kingdoms.
When the tower was intact, it was used to hold one of 
the Seeing Stones that Elendil brought from Westernesse 
over the Sea, but little is known of that tale in the world 
today. Rangers have long searched the ruins surrounding 
Weathertop for any relic of that time of strife, and nothing 
but fragments of weapons can be found now. Anything of 
worth was brought to Rivendell long ago, to await for the 
return of the King.
Midgewater Marshes
Separating the Chetwood of Bree-land and the Weather 
Hills is a vast area of marshland filled with stinging flies 
and irritating insects. It is a trackless land that few pass 
through, save at the utmost of need. Here the fens are 
filled with dank, brackish water that stinks of stagnation.
Travel is difficult and slow for those who pass through 
the Midgewater Marshes, but leaving the road to traverse 
it does offer one advantage: it is hard, if not impossible, 
to follow or track anyone across its bogs and quagmires. 
The Rangers of the North employ this ruse whenever they 
want to throw off any pursuers.
The Wolf-Den of the South Downs
The Wolves of the South Downs came from the distant 
Misty Mountains to hunt, and never returned to their 
lairs. They found that the desolate hills offered a good 
refuge for them, and from there they go out at night to 
search for prey.
These Wolves can consider themselves lucky, as the 
Rangers rarely patrol the hills of the South Downs, 
preferring to keep a watch over the Old Road from the 
higher Weather Hills. This is why the Wolves have escaped 
notice so far, and they remain undisturbed in their new 
den, a great cave dug deep into a large hill. Their secret 
lair for the moment houses a pack of a dozen wolves, but 
the cunning beasts are spreading the word, and more 
wicked creatures are approaching the South Downs to 
bow to the new Wolf-lords of Eriador. If the Orcs of Mount 
Gram were to hear about this, then an alliance might be 
reached between the two factions and the great East Road 
would be seriously threatened.
New Fellowship Phase Undertaking: 
Watch upon Amon Sûl (Dúnedain only)
The Rangers of the North keep a watchful eye on the 
realm from Weathertop, always maintaining a secret 
guard upon the great East Road.
Only Dúnedain companions who returned home for the 
Fellowship phase may select this undertaking and spend 
a great many days and nights patrolling the Weather 
Hills and keeping camp upon the summit of Amon 
Sûl. Because of these long watches spent in the wilds, 
they are better able to face the troubles of the land 
when they next journey through them. During their 
next Adventuring phase, if their journey takes them 
through the central parts of Eriador they add a +1 to 
any rolls on the Journey Event table as they guide the 
Company through the trackless hills of the region.

--- PAGE 59 ---
59
The North Downs
The ancient Greenway crosses the great East Road near 
the town of Bree and continues north, towards the high 
hills called the North Downs. These grassy hills roll in a 
north-eastern direction for many leagues, before they give 
way to the flat, broad lands between the Downs and the 
mountains to the east. Verdant and lush, these are wild 
lands that were once the heart of a great kingdom, but that 
are now deserted. 
What is left are just half-buried ruins that have been 
reclaimed by time and nature, and are guarded by those 
strange wanderers that the Bree-folk call the Rangers.
What business the Rangers have with these lands is a 
mystery to the Breelanders. All they know is that they 
are the only wanderers that dare to get close to the ruins 
of King’s Norbury. Them, and robbers. For the southern 
border of the North Downs is deemed to be a haunted 
land, a place of ill-omen, and they call it Deadmen’s Dike.
Rangers who hear such a name on their visits to Bree are 
quick to remark that the local folk know nothing of the 
true hauntings that infest the land, just a few miles away 
from their doors.
Combat Scenery: ancient dykes, broken pillars, fallen 
statues, foundations, pits, rubble, thickets, unstable walls, 
warm sun breaking through the clouds
Wildlife
The North Downs are wild and teeming with life. The short 
and hardy grassland is covered by flowers in spring and is 
home to thousands of butterflies. Sheep and rabbits graze 
on the hilltops, while kestrels fly low in search of prey. 
There were once many woods over the North Downs, but 
the Men of the West felled those trees long ago, and only 
small groves of oaks now remain. The stones and ruined 
walls that dot the land are covered with ivy and leaves.
Inhabitants
It is said, with the exception of the Shire-folk, that no one 
lives within many days of Bree and the high hills of the 
North Downs are no exception. But the Rangers of the 
North go there, and they maintain several of their secret 
refuges in hidden dales and on the hilltops, where greater 
ruins still endure.
Notable Characters
Gishak Gashnaga
The town of Bree and the Shire to the west may seem 
quiet places. But their peace is something that is assured 
night after night by the constant watch of the Rangers. For 
example, what would have happened if the warband of 
Gishak Gashnaga wasn’t defeated in  the North Downs? 
These Orcs came down all the way from Mount Gram in 
search of plunder, but they found the steel of the Dúnedain 
first. Gishak Gashnaga was the only survivor of the Orcs’ 
encounter with the Rangers. Protected by darkness, he was 
able to crawl away, and found refuge among the ruins of 
an ancient hill-fort in the east of the North Downs. There, 
he found a complex of tunnels to hide in, and now plans to 
attract more of his kin there, to establish in secret a camp 
of Goblins and Orcs. Under Gishak’s command, these foul 
creatures would plague the land for years to come. Gishak 
Gashnaga is a Great Orc, as described on page 97 of the 
Loremaster’s Guide.
n
n
a
c
Weather 
Hills
North Downs
Weathertop
Fornost Erain
Lone-lands
Bree-land
E
E
Greenway
The Dome 
of Sight
E
The Tower of Twilight
E
The North Downs
The Regions of Eastern Eriador

--- PAGE 60 ---
Rivendell Region Guide
60
Talandil, Ranger of the North Downs
When a Ranger has served for many years out in the Wild, 
he is allowed to return to his family. But Talandil had no 
family to return to. Having reached a considerable age, 
Talandil doesn’t wander the land either, and he rarely 
leaves the North Downs. He is the self-appointed guardian 
of Fornost Erain, and he knows many songs and tales of 
that city when it was the northern fortress of the kings.
Motivation: When get to be as old as I am, you are 
cautious and slow to trust others.
Expectations: +1 if the Company has a Hobbit with them 
— Talandil has had enough even of his own people, but he 
does take delight in the Little Folk; -2 if the Company does 
not have a Dúnedan with them. Fornost Erain is a place 
that belongs to the Rangers of the North. 
Talandil
Medium Human
STR 
15 (+2)
DEX 
11 (+0)
CON 
17 (+3)
INT 
12 (+1)
WIS 
16 (+3)
CHA 
10 (+0)
Armour Class 16 (Ring-mail, Shield)
Hit Points 60 (8d8+24)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Lore +3, Perception +5, Pipe +3, Riddle +3, 
Survival +5
Senses passive Perception 15
Languages Westron, Sindarin
Challenge 3 (700 XP)
Long-pipe. Talandil can make a DC 15 Intelligence 
(Pipe) check as an action. On a success, he makes his next 
ability check with Advantage.
Many Long Leagues. If Talandil is with the Company 
on a journey then a companion can spend Inspiration to 
allow a long rest. This ability can only be used once per 
journey.
Actions
Multiattack. Talandil can make two attacks with his 
Long Sword.
Long Sword. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 6 (1d8+2) slashing damage or 7 (1d10+2) 
slashing damage if wielded with two hands.
Reaction
Parry. Talandil adds 2 to his AC against one melee attack 
that would hit him. To do so, he must see the attacker and 
be wielding a melee weapon.

--- PAGE 61 ---
61
Notable Locations
Fornost Erain
There are many names for this former capital of Arnor 
and Arthedain: Fornost, Fornost Erain and Norbury of the 
Kings, but it’s been long since anyone called it other than 
Deadmen’s Dike. In the southern shadows of the North 
Downs, what was left of Fornost has been reclaimed by 
nature. Its tall towers were broken during the siege of the 
Witch-king of Angmar and the city was sacked. Now, late 
in the Third Age, the stones that once paved the streets 
have been uprooted by trees hundreds of years old and its 
once-white stone walls are covered with winding ivy and 
spreading lichen. Indeed, an unwary traveller might walk 
within a few feet of this place before realising that beyond 
the green walls lie the ruins of an ancient city.
The Bree-folk believe that foul spirits haunt the ruins of 
Fornost Erain. The Rangers let the simple folk entertain 
such idle thoughts, as these superstitions let them conceal 
their activities and protect their charges from the greater 
dangers of the Wild.
The Ghostly Voices of Fornost
The sorrow brought about in Fornost Erain by the 
armies of Angmar has left scars that go beyond the 
mortal realm. When companions stop for the night in 
the proximity of the ruins of the former capital of the 
North, they risk being visited by ghostly presences in 
their dreams. All sleeping companions except Elves 
make a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw. 
On a failure, their dreams are haunted by terrible 
visions of the slaughter of the Dúnedain of Fornost. 
When they wake up, they are not considered to have 
rested, and the next time they are forced to make a 
saving throw against becoming Frightened they have 
Disadvantage, as their nightmares wear away at their 
courage.
The Dome of Sight
Among the tumbled stones of Fornost is a partially interred 
pathway that leads to an underground chamber. This was 
once a vast and lofty dome, but it collapsed at the time of 
the sack of the city. In this place, the Seeing Stones of the 
North-kingdom were kept for many years: the chief stone 
that was first in the Tower of Amon Sûl, and the Stone of 
Annúminas, now both lost to the sea.
Should a companion enter the Dome of Sight, he might 
recover one of the ceramic tiles that covered the interior of 
the dome (a DC 20 Intelligence (Investigation) check). 
Kept as an amulet, the tile confers a bonus of +1 to all rolls 
made using the Perception skill.
The Tower of Twilight
The westernmost hill of the North Downs is known as the 
Tower of Twilight. Only the Rangers remember the reason 
for that name, for there stood of old a fortress called 
Amon Dûn, the Hill of the West. Proud it stood upon 
the tallest hill, until it was cast down in ruin at times of 
war. Legends tell of how the Dúnedain would climb to its 
highest balcony to gaze far and see in the morning sun the 
twinkling lights of Lake Evendim and the great capital of 
Arnor, Annúminas.
What remains today is a tall mound, topped by a 
perfectly circular ring of close-set blocks of stone. Though 
weeds and grasses grow freely about the broken tower, 
they don’t touch its smooth stones and do not enter its 
perimeter. Rangers often stop here in their wanderings, 
to honour the memory of the capital city of their Northern 
Kingdom.
New Fellowship Phase Undertaking: 
Return to Amon Dûn (Dúnedain only)
The Rangers of the North visit the Tower of Twilight 
to look westward upon the far shores of Lake Evendim. 
Even a brief glimpse of the land where King Elendil 
the Tall used to live is enough to strengthen the resolve 
of a Dúnadan.
 
Dúnedain companions who returned home for their 
Fellowship phase may visit Amon Dûn and undertake 
to Heal Corruption using any Wisdom skill. They also 
gain Advantage on the check.
The Regions of Eastern Eriador

--- PAGE 62 ---
Rivendell Region Guide
62
The Greenway and the East Road
There is an old meeting of ways outside the western edge 
of the village of Bree. At the time of the two kingdoms of 
the Dúnedain, a great stone road ran from the gates of 
Fornost Erain to as far as the harbour of Pelargir on the 
southern borders of Gondor, and another stretched from 
west to east, connecting the Grey Havens to Rivendell. But 
with the passage of the centuries even the roads of the 
Men of the West have fallen into disrepair.
The portion once known as the North Road, is now seldom 
used and has become overgrown with grass. Its length 
is interrupted at the ruined city of Tharbad, where the 
bridge that crossed the river Greyflood is no more. Even 
in its time of decline, groups of hardy wanderers set foot 
upon this Greenway, as it is called now, to journey from 
north to south and back again. The great East Road sees 
more traffic, as Dwarves from the Ered Luin still embark 
upon the long journey that takes them east, as far as 
Wilderland and the Lonely Mountain, and Elves go the 
opposite way, when they tire of Middle-earth and seek the 
shores of the Sea.
Wanderers travelling across Eriador cannot find a faster 
way to cross the land, as even if the country is traversed 
by many paths, no track cuts distances in a straighter way 
than the old roads of the kings. But if in need of secrecy, 
heroes might have to search for a different solution, as 
travellers on the road are easily spotted, and the Enemy 
has many eyes. The Greenway and the East Road are 
considered to be good roads as far as the rules for journeys 
are concerned (see page 176 of the Player’s Guide) but the 
Company suffers a modifier of -2 to their Veil score (see 
the rules for Eye Awareness checks at page 113).
The Barrow-downs
Long shadows reach from the eastern border of the 
Old Forest to clutch at the fog-shrouded hills known in 
Sindarin as Tyrn Gorthad and to the Men of Bree simply 
as the Barrow-downs. Rolling mounds of earth rise and 
fall, catching clouds of mist in their small valleys. 
Many of these mounds have upon their crest large 
stones that hint at the greater structures that once stood 
atop them. These ancient landmarks may have been 
monuments to noble kings of old, but time and shadow 
have not been kind to the Barrow-downs and long ages of 
rain and harsh weather have shaped them into unnatural 
monoliths whose true purpose is forgotten.
To the north, a steep wall runs along an overgrown dike 
from east to west, marking the boundary of a kingdom 
that disappeared long ago. The stonework is still sturdy, 
but many gaps open along its length of many miles.
Stone doors set into the sides of the larger hills mark the 
entrance to tombs of dead warriors and chieftains. Men 
interred their dead here since before the Dúnedain came 
to the shores of Middle-earth, and their descendants 
continued to cut the soil to dig underground chambers 
and corridors for thousands of years. 
This tradition was honoured by the Men of the West and 
thus it was preserved in the days of Arnor. Many of their 
princes and lords were buried here, together with their 
treasure and favourite gear of war. But it was not their fate 
n
a
c
o
South Downs
Weather 
Hills
Barrow
Downs
Sarn Ford
E
Bree
Brandywine 
Bridge
Midgewater
Marshes
Bree-land
Old Forest
The Great 
Barrow Stone
E
Greenway
The Barrow-downs

--- PAGE 63 ---
63
to rest in peace – at the time of the war with the witch-
realm of Angmar, evil spirits entered the barrows and 
have dwelt there ever since.
Today, the fog in the Barrow-downs rises in dense patches 
in the morning, and dissipates slowly in the midday sun 
only to find a new home upon the top of the hills. This 
mist makes passage difficult for any traveller, including 
the Rangers. The eyes of all wanderers are left with only 
a dead grey wall to gaze upon and sound is buried in its 
all-consuming blanket.
Combat Scenery: ancient dykes, eerie mist, rocky 
outcrops, slopes, standing stones (huge boulders), 
unstable walls
Wildlife
There are few wild creatures within the confines of the 
Barrow-downs, in spite of the thick grasses that grow 
upon the hilltops and the aged trees that sometimes grow 
along its eastern edges. It is almost as though the Barrow-
downs devour natural creatures who come to dwell within 
its borders. Indeed, Rangers and other hearty folk who 
cross this land report discovery of the carcasses of deer 
and other wandering beasts who seem stricken dead by 
some unknown malady and left to rot.
The only animals that seem to thrive here are vermin and 
scavengers. Rats are known to hide in the open tombs, 
and rumours speak of more than one crypt that has 
become infested with large spiders that flit from shadow 
to shadow in search of prey.
Carrion birds can be spotted perched upon rocks and 
barrow stones. Their harsh cries echo between the hills 
and their unblinking eyes watch closely all those who 
pass, as if they were waiting for some ill-fate to befall them 
so that they might find a new meal.
Inhabitants
No men make their homes within the confines of the 
Barrow-downs. It is seen universally as a place of ill-omen 
and those forced to travel through this region hasten their 
steps so that they might pass beyond its borders before 
the sun fades into the West and darkness fills both valley 
and sky. It is said among the Bree-folk that foolish tomb 
robbers occasionally enter the Barrow-downs, hoping to 
find ancient and glittering treasure hidden in its graves 
and hills. Few return and those who do speak little of what 
they have seen for fear that they may draw the evil that 
dwells here to follow them beyond its borders.
Notable Characters
Mad Ostley
White-haired and wide-eyed, Mad Ostley was named so by 
the Bree-folk. For years he has travelled into the Barrow-
downs seeking treasure and riches, but with each failed 
The Regions of Eastern Eriador

--- PAGE 64 ---
Rivendell Region Guide
64
excavation he returns to the civilised world a bit more 
unhinged. In the past few years he has taken to rambling 
in quiet whispers to himself about “dead kings” and “cold 
hearts.”
While the locals regard him as someone who has “gone 
cracked looking for trinkets,” there is the occasional hint 
of wisdom in his words. He still journeys out into the 
Barrow-downs each spring, never returning with anything 
more than madness in his eyes.
Motivations: I have have come out of deep water and am 
found again, but my memories are hazy. To follow me is to 
venture into danger.
Expectations: +2 if the Company has a Dúnadan with 
them — Ostley has a favourable opinion of the Rangers, 
though he doesn’t remember why. -2 if the heroes mention 
a fair share of treasure — Ostley has his own plans and 
they don’t involve the companions.
The Wight-king
The Wight-king of the Barrow-downs is the chief of all 
blighted creatures who dwell in that land. Whether he is 
the corrupted spirit of the last King of Cardolan who was 
entombed in the Barrow-downs before the Great Plague or 
the malicious spirit of some fell captain who once served 
Angmar, none can know for certain, for his name has 
been lost to the past. Now he dwells in the greatest tomb of 
the Barrow-downs, where his vile will sets all the lingering 
dead that dwell there to an evil purpose.
The few who have laid eyes upon the Wight-king describe 
an ancient skeletal warrior clad in broken armour, 
bearing a cracked shield and wielding a tarnished black 
blade. His eyes burn with a frozen light and he moves 
with the slow certainty of death. By his dark will all dead 
things of the Barrow-downs are driven forth, a mockery of 
the armies of Cardolan that once made this realm noble. 
He is a terrible foe in battle, his very presence spreading 
corruption, and even the Rangers of the North would not 
dare face him openly. He leaves his hidden tomb only 
under the cover of darkness, though in recent times he 
has become more restless and driven. None know to what 
evil task he has now been set, only that he seeks to bring 
all that was once living or might be slain into his growing 
army. See the description of the Wight-king on page 86.
Notable Locations
The Great Barrow Stone
Near the Old Forest upon the western edges of the Barrow-
downs is a great mound upon which is set a single massive 
stone. This great pillar is larger than any other in the downs, 
as is the hill upon which it rests. It is cold to the touch on 
even the hottest days of summer and legends speak of a 
curse that has been laid upon it, to plague whoever enters 
the Barrow-downs with the intention of depredating the 
dead of their riches. A company passing by the stone sees 
their Hunt score raised by a number of points equal to 
the highest Shadow score among all companions (see the 
rules for the Eye of Mordor on page 111).
Barrow Tombs
The downs are littered with the tombs of warriors and 
kings whose names and deeds have long been forgotten 
by all but the wisest Men and Elves of Eriador. Though 
some foolhardy plunderers come to these dank burial 
caves seeking ill-gotten riches, they are often driven away 
by the unnatural chill that claws at them upon entry or, 
worse yet, the dark whispers carried upon the wind as it 
sweeps through the darkness.

--- PAGE 65 ---
65
Hushed whispers speak of the terrible Barrow-wights, 
spectral apparitions clad in the mail of those who once 
ruled this land and wandering in the thick fog. It is said 
that they seek to claim wayward travellers, to carry them 
underground to join the dead. The few who have survived 
encounters with these fell creatures recall their haunting 
songs and dead faces and yearn to remember little more. 
Tales of the Barrow-wights keeps all but the most hearty of 
travellers from passing through the Barrow-downs. See the 
description of the Barrow-wights on pages 82-83.
Entering a Barrow
The rumours of treasures hidden in the barrow tombs 
are not without merit. Indeed it is true that relics and 
artefacts of the Kingdom of Cardolan can sometimes 
be found laying beside the bones of those who fell to 
the Witch-king of Carn Dûm centuries ago. But these 
tombs are not to be visited lightly, for they are blighted 
places: those who enter a tomb in the Barrow-downs 
must make a Corruption check (a DC 15 Wisdom 
saving throw) when they first enter and an additional 
check for every hour they remain within. Those who 
fail gain 1 point of Shadow. Additionally, entering a 
tomb with the intention of plundering it for its contents 
is a Misdeed (see the Adventures in Middle-earth 
Player’s Guide, page 182), worthy of an automatic 
gain of 3 Shadow points.
Barrow tombs are generally shallow and house only 
the remains of one long-dead warrior or prince. 
Legends talk of great mounds that go deep within the 
earth housing greater corruption and greater treasure. 
Despite their sinister fame, many barrow tombs have 
been looted at some time in their long history. Those 
that are haunted by an evil spirit are more likely to 
still contain a hoard. A typical barrow may contain 
between 20 to 100 gold pieces worth of treasure, 
likely to be tainted with Corruption (see page 183 
of the Player’s Guide). An ancient hoard guarded by 
a Wight should have a rating ranging from 50* to 
100*. Most items that are Touched by the Shadow 
and found in a barrow hoard will almost certainly be 
cursed (see Cursed Items starting on page 99).
Tharbad
Far to the south of Imladris where the Greyflood marks 
the northern borders of Dunland and Enedwaith are the 
ruins of the city of Tharbad. This town was once a great 
centre of trade and commerce of the Men of the West, 
built around a grand stone bridge that crossed the river. 
Its foundations are what remains of that great work of the 
Númenórean kings of old, gigantic stones that jut out of 
the waters of the largest marshlands of Eriador.
This land was abandoned completely not more than 
fifty years ago, when great floods wrecked the bridge 
and engulfed the surrounding fields, turning the entire 
region into one enormous swamp dotted with crumbling 
buildings atop dwindling mounds.
The Old South Road that once united Gondor and Arnor 
has disappeared in these lands, and resurfaces only many 
miles to the north as the grass-covered Greenway – only 
travellers of great courage and hardihood take that path 
n
n
South Downs
Tharbad
Lone-lands
Mitheithel
The Swanfleet
Greenway
~Greyflood
Old South
 Road
E
The Wolf-Den of 
the South Downs
The Crossing 
of Tharbad
E
Tharbad
The Regions of Eastern Eriador

--- PAGE 66 ---
Rivendell Region Guide
66
today. To the east, the delta of the River Swanfleet marks 
the borders of Eregion, where the Mitheithel and Glanduin 
unite.
Combat Scenery: bogs, broken pillars, covered pits, 
foundations, huge boulders, incessant buzzing, mud, 
river shallows, rubble, thick fogs 
Wildlife
The wild fens around Tharbad are teeming with all 
manner of birds and beasts. Great birds, long of leg and 
with sweeping beaks sit upon the shores of the Greyflood 
and pluck the fish from the waters as they swim by. 
Swans, white and fair, still nest in the lower reaches of the 
river for which they are named, the Swanfleet. Great hares 
hide amidst the few rising mounds that dot the landscape 
while the low song of smaller birds can be heard in spring. 
Of late great black crows have been seen moving in large 
flocks from Dunland across the river. These Crebain build 
great nests in the few stone ruins of Tharbad and drive 
out all other creatures. Learn more about the Crebain of 
Tharbad on page 75.
Inhabitants
There are no fixed settlements in the great fens of Tharbad. 
The air is still not wholesome enough. But even though 
this is a forsaken land it is not wholly uninhabited. 
Wild fishermen and fowlers from Enedwaith sometimes 
go upriver along the Greyflood in search of fish and 
birds to catch with their keenly thrown spears. Bands 
of Dunlendings come north from their own country to 
waylay both beast and Man who might be found in this 
region. 
Few Rangers of the North travel so far south as Tharbad, 
but when they do they are especially wary of any creature 
on two legs that might trespass into their territory.
Notable Characters
Kyna
Though the Wild Men of Enedwaith rarely travel inland as 
far as Tharbad, Kyna is an adventurous young woman. 
Boasting her desire to fish in “unchallenged waters”, she 
leaves her village for weeks on end to reach the crumbling 
town. The ruins fascinate her, and she often spends more 
hours exploring them than tending to her duties as a 
huntress and fisherwoman for her people. 
She knows the fens west of Tharbad quite well, better than 
any other of her kind. Though she is curious regarding 
the travellers who pass through the realm, she is wary 
of the many threats that plague the waters surrounding 
the Greyflood.

--- PAGE 67 ---
67
Motivations: Speak quickly and tell me truly if you are 
friend or foe, for your life may be forfeit if you lie to me!
Expectations: +1 if a person of Bree is with the Company 
— Kyna’s folk still tell tales of the ancient town; -2 if 
anyone tries to assert authority with Kyna — be they from 
Gondor, the Dúnedain or the High Elves… the fishers of 
the Enedwaith are free folk.
Kyna of Enedwaith
Medium Human
STR 
15 (+2)
DEX 
16 (+3)
CON 
14 (+2)
INT 
12 (+1)
WIS 
13 (+1)
CHA 
11 (+0)
Armour Class 15 (Leather corslet)
Hit Points 39 (6d8+12)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Athletics +4, Nature +3, Survival +3
Senses passive Perception 11
Languages Westron
Challenge 1 (200 XP)
Region-lore (Enedwaith). If Kyna is with the Company 
for a journey that begins or ends in the Enedwaith or 
Tharbad, the Guide rolls 1d8+4 for the Embarkation 
Roll.
Hatred (Orc-kind) (Recharge 5-6). Kyna and her folk 
hate Orcs and she will spend her bonus action to gain 
Advantage on attack rolls against them whenever she 
can. 
Actions
Spear: Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 
5 feet or range 20/60 feet, one target. Hit: 5 (1d6+2) 
piercing damage or 6 (1d8+2) piercing damage if used 
with two hands to make a melee attack.
Great Bow: Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, range 
150/600 feet, one target. Hit: 7 (1d8+3) piercing damage.
Bradan
Young and eager to prove himself, Bradan is a young scout 
from Dunland, known among his tribemates as a man 
whose long stride and quick feet has led him far and wide 
across his homeland. Having recently come into manhood, 
Bradan has been charged by his chieftain with the 
exploration of the lands north of the borders of Dunland.
Though he speaks only a few words in the Common 
Speech, Bradan is curious when he encounters strangers. 
Typically, he observes them from a distance and retreats 
if he falls under their gaze. Bradan doesn’t know why 
his chieftain is seeking news from the north, though he 
suspects that his lord is reporting to a greater, unknown 
master.
Bradan of Dunland
Medium Human
STR 
11 (+0)
DEX 
17 (+3)
CON 
12 (+1)
INT 
10 (+0)
WIS 
15 (+2)
CHA 
13 (+1)
Armour Class 16 (Spiral armour)
Hit Points 44 (8d8+8)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Insight +4, Perception +4, Stealth +5
Senses passive Perception 14/19 (see below)
Languages Westron
Challenge 2 (450 XP)
Secret Folk. If Bradan is making a roll to hide from 
others, to detect an ambush, discover a trap or discover 
treachery he has Advantage on the check. This will most 
commonly be applied to Insight, Investigation, Perception 
and Stealth checks.
Actions
Short Sword. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 
feet, one target. Hit: 6 (1d6+3) piercing damage.
Reaction
Survivor. When outnumbered by his opponents, Bradan 
always uses the Dodge action. When an opponent misses 
him, he can make a single melee attack as a reaction.
Notable Locations
The Crossing of Tharbad
No one but the Wise might guess that the devastated 
marshland surrounding the ruins of the stone bridge 
could once be a thriving city of Men. Few birds or beasts 
draw near these abandoned buildings and a heavy mist 
hangs between broken towers and collapsing walls on all 
but the brightest of summer days. Folk say that treasure 
can still be found beneath the murky waters where wide 
streets and roads once ran, but none can say for certain. 
Those who brave this abandoned place risk their own 
lives, for deadly creatures are believed to dwell in the 
dark places of Tharbad, guarding submerged piles of old 
gold.
The Regions of Eastern Eriador

--- PAGE 68 ---
Rivendell Region Guide
68
The ruins of the great bridge are the most impressive 
sight in all Tharbad. A monumental work, the bridge 
was so large that it is said that the High King of the Elves, 
Gilgalad, marched the whole of his army across it. Now, 
its stone remains form a treacherous ford, with jagged 
pillars poking from mired waters and cracked blocks of 
marble providing unstable stepping stones. The crossing 
would be impassable if the wide river had not been slow 
and shallow here.
The Swanfleet
Where the Mitheithel and Glanduin rivers meet, they form 
a wide angle of marshland known as the Swanfleet for the 
graceful birds found there. East of the meres and eyots of 
this land of reeds is a fall of waters, its spray contributing 
to the heavy mists that veil the land around Tharbad. It 
is said that before it was finally abandoned, many of the 
merchants of that town found caves winding deep beneath 
these falls and there they laid their gold, hoping that they 
would one day return and reclaim their precious things.
Now, no one knows where these caves are, and stories 
tell of a great monster that dwells in the pools where the 
waters of the Greyflood and Glanduin mingle, ready to 
hunt those treasure-hunters that would dare to venture 
too close to its lair.
Braving the Ford
All those who travel along the great South Road must 
attempt the crossing of the river here. But it is no easy 
task. First, the Scout must pick a path through the 
murky waters and unstable rubble. This requires a DC 
15 Intelligence (Investigation) check.
Then each hero must make three DC 20 Strength 
(Athletics) checks. If the Scout succeeded at the 
Investigation check, the heroes make these checks with 
Advantage. Each failure forces the hero to gain a level 
of Exhaustion as the companion is temporarily caught 
beneath the waters of the Gwaltho. 
If the companions have mounts, then the Company must 
also make three DC 20 Wisdom (Animal Handling) 
checks as well. If all three checks are failed, then a 
mount has been lost to the treacherous crossing.

--- PAGE 69 ---
69
Evils of
- the North -
“…dark things come from the houseless hills, 
or creep from the sunless woods…”
From the barren lands of old Arnor to the forsaken 
paths of Eregion, the land of Eriador is home to dozens 
of dangerous denizens. Some of these foes have seldom 
been challenged by any hero and are powerful by any 
measure, whether separately or in great troupes. Others 
are unique creatures that hate the free people and trouble 
them whenever they may. And while the dead outnumber 
the living in Eriador, the dead do not always rest easily in 
this land.
Powerful Adversaries
"Fly! This is a foe beyond any of you."
There may be times when the Loremaster needs to pit 
the Company against an enemy that is stronger than 
a common creature of its race, perhaps because it is an 
important character for the plot, a recurring enemy or 
simply because the heroes have reached such a high level 
of power that they risk defeating any threat they face 
without effort. 
In such cases the Loremaster may apply the rules and 
advice found on page 116 of the Loremaster’s Guide, 
augmented by the extra abilities listed here. In addition to 
abilities that have appeared in previous supplements for 
the game, this chapter contains especially strong abilities 
that can be granted to any creature, supplementing its 
normal characteristics. There are also a select number of 
new, more powerful, Troupe abilities that can be applied 
to entire warbands.
Challenge Ratings
Each monster in this chapter, along with all other 
monsters in the Loremaster’s Guide and the various other 
supplements, are assigned a Challenge rating. The rating 
is a rough approximation of the threat that a monster 
poses to a well-arrayed Company of a certain level. This 
rating assumes that all of the rules present in the game 
are in play: that long rests are hard to come by, Legendary 
Weapons and Armour (or other magical items) are rare 
and that the Loremaster will make steady use of the 
monster’s special abilities and terrain modifiers. 
But most importantly, they assume that the maxims 
on page 89 of the Loremaster’s Guide are in use. While 
numerically speaking a single Black Uruk might be a 
challenge for a Company of four level 2 heroes, it is more 
likely that such a foe would serve as a commander for a 
force of lesser Orcs and Goblins and be set against a more 
experienced group of heroes. Perhaps a Black Uruk and a 
handful of Snaga Trackers would ambush the Company 
in a place where the Snagas can make use of their Sneak 
Attack abilities. It certainly would be the rare fight that is 
fought on a bare field in bright sunshine with the Goblins 
in the open! 
Of course, such an encounter might overwhelm a less 
experienced Company — you will want to consider all 
aspects of the battle before determining if it is a fitting 
challenge for your players. Look to the source material, 
there are very few solitary duels to be found and often our 
heroes simply wish to escape from the onslaught of the 
enemy hordes.
New Especially Strong Abilities 
These abilities are meant to describe the capabilities of an 
individual of superior stature; a direct servant of Sauron, 
a creature empowered by sorcery, the last of an ages-old 
species, the recipient of a special training. While normally 
limited to 1, the Loremaster might bestow 2 enhancements 
or more to a single creature. Addition of these abilities will 
raise the Challenge rating of the monster by 1 or more.
Cruel Stroke (Recharge 5-6). If the creature’s attack 
has just hit, it may spend its bonus action to activate this 
ability. The attack becomes a critical hit.
Deadly Elusiveness. If the creature does not wear any 
armour, its Armour Class is equal to 10 plus twice its 
Dexterity modifier.
Fearsome (Recharge 5-6). The creature may use its 
reaction when it is struck by its enemy to activate this 
Evils of the North

--- PAGE 70 ---
Rivendell Region Guide
70
ability. That enemy must make a DC 15 Wisdom saving 
throw. If it fails the saving throw the attack fails and it 
becomes Frightened of the creature until the end of the 
creature’s next turn.
Great Might (Recharge 5-6). The creature may use its 
reaction when it takes damage from a melee or ranged 
weapon attack: the damage amount is reduced by the 
creature’s Strength modifier, to a minimum of 1 point of 
damage taken.
Legendary. This creature is an exceptional example of 
its type. It gains from 1 to 3 additional legendary actions. 
Each legendary action corresponds to one of the actions or 
abilities that it already possesses. Activating a legendary 
action does not consume the creature’s bonus action or 
reaction.
Unyielding (Recharge 5-6). The creature can use its 
bonus action to gain temporary hit points equal to twice 
its Constitution modifier.
Wicked Cunning (1/day). The creature can use its bonus 
action to activate this ability. For the remainder of the 
combat, it adds the higher of its Intelligence or Wisdom 
modifier to its Armour Class.
New Exceptional Troupe Abilities 
Beyond the fire he saw swarming black figures: there 
seemed to be hundreds of orcs.
Of all the terrors of the Enemy, perhaps the most alarming 
is the sheer number of foes that He can set against the 
Free Peoples. When those warbands have superior 
training or equipment, even lowly Orcs may be a mighty 
challenge for stout heroes. Most of the following troupe 
abilities should raise the Challenge rating of the encounter 
and you may wish to assign a singular Challenge rating to 
the group as a whole.
Battle-hardened. If the troupe is required to make saving 
throws against any sort of intimidation effect, they gain 
Advantage on the saving throw.
Deadly. Once in a round, a single member of the troupe 
that has successfully hit its target deals an additional 3 
(1d6) points of the same damage type. 
Driven. If a member of the troupe has taken damage 
since the end of its last turn, it has Advantage on its first 
attack roll.
Easily Unnerved. When a member of this troupe is killed, 
select another living member of the troupe. It takes 2 (1d4) 
psychic damage as it sees its ally slain.
Formidable. Each member of the troupe improves its 
Armour Class by 1.
Skillful. Select one of the creature’s listed skills. Each 
member has Advantage on all ability checks for that skill. 
If the troupe contains monsters of different types, each 
type may select a different skill. If the creature does not 
have any skills then this ability has no effect on them.
Trained. Select one basic attack action (not Multiatttack 
or an action with limited usage or an action that prompts 
a saving throw or other additional effects). Each member 
of the troupe now has Advantage on that attack. If the 
troupe contains monsters of different types, each type may 
select a different basic attack.
New Creature Abilities 
The following list of abilities are in addition to those found 
in the Loremaster’s Guide. None of these are so strong as 
to make certain an adjustment to the Challenge rating 
of an adversary, and some even hinder the foe. Still, you 
will want to be careful in how many abilities you apply to 
each monster — too many may bog down combat or create 
confusion in the heat of battle. 
Ambush. During their first turn, the creature has 
Advantage on attack rolls against any other creature that 
hasn’t taken a turn. If the creature scores a melee critical 
hit on a target in this turn, that target is knocked Prone.

--- PAGE 71 ---
71
Amphibious. The creature can hold its breath for such 
long periods that it is effectively a water-breather in 
combat situations.
Broken Blades (1/day). The creature may invoke this 
ability as a bonus action. It automatically scores a critical 
hit with all successful attacks this round. Afterwards, its 
weapon is destroyed.
Battle Cry (1/day). The creature may use its action to 
activate this ability. Each creature of the same type within 
30 feet of the acting creature gains Advantage on attack 
rolls until the start of the acting creature’s next turn. The 
creature may then make one attack as a bonus action.
Bewilder. The creature can briefly assume a different 
shape, confusing all around it. All creatures within 30 
feet of the creature must make a DC 13 Wisdom saving 
throw or be Stunned for 1d4+1 rounds. As long as the effect 
lasts, the creature may then make a melee attack against a 
Stunned creature as a bonus action. The creature can only 
use this ability once per long rest.
Bodyguards. The creature is always surrounded by other 
creatures of the same type whose duty it is to protect their 
leader. At least one other creature in its retinue gains the 
Thrall special reaction ability (see page 72).
Camouflage. The creature has Advantage on all stealth 
tests in a certain terrain type.
Commanding. Allies of the creature gain Advantage on 
attack rolls against enemies engaged with the creature.
Craven. If the creature starts its turn with less than half 
its total hit points, it must make a DC 10 Wisdom saving 
throw. On a failure, it becomes Frightened and must use 
its Dash or Disengage action to move away from any 
enemies. If movement is impossible, it will take the Dodge 
action.
Cunning Speech. If the creature has a chance to speak, 
then any intelligent foes that share the creature’s language 
within earshot must make a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw 
or suffer Disadvantage when attacking the creature.
Deadly Spear-Thrust. The creature may use its reaction 
to make a single melee attack against a creature that has 
just attacked it. If the creature inflicts a critical hit with this 
ability, the target is knocked Prone as the blow strikes a 
knee or other joint.
Ensorcelled. The creature has been dominated by the 
will of another, and no words will cause it to stray from 
its mission. The creature is immune to being Charmed or 
Frightened and takes no damage from Psychic attacks.
Fear of Fire. The creature is fearful of fire. If a torch or 
other flame comes within 10 feet of it, the creature suffers 
Disadvantage on its attack rolls.
Fearsome Bellow. As a bonus action the creature may 
scream at a target within 20 ft. That target must make a DC 
13 Wisdom saving throw or become Frightened until the 
end of the creature’s next turn.
Hate Sunlight. This creature despises the cleansing light 
of the Sun. If it is exposed to direct bright sunlight, it takes 3 
(1d6) psychic damage each round.
 
Hawk’s Eye (Recharge 4-6). The creature may use this 
ability as a bonus action. It does not suffer Disadvantage 
on attack rolls due to being at long range this turn.
Horrible Strength. If the creature makes a successful 
melee attack, it may use its bonus action to cause additional 
damage equal to its Strength modifier of the same type to 
the target.
Keen Hearing and Smell. The creature has Advantage on 
Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on hearing or smell.
Leadership. As a bonus action, the creature can command 
a nearby ally of the same type. That ally takes its turn 
immediately after the acting creature.
Region Dweller (Recharge 5-6). If the creature is within 5 
feet of a scenery feature specific to its region, it may use its 
bonus action to gain half-cover from it, even if the feature 
would not normally provide it.
Nimble Escape. The creature can take the Disengage or 
Hide action as a bonus action on each of its turns.
Pack Tactics. The creature has Advantage on an attack 
roll against a creature if at least one of the creature’s 
Evils of the North

--- PAGE 72 ---
Rivendell Region Guide
72
allies is within 5 feet of the creature and that ally isn’t 
Incapacitated.
Parry. The creature adds its Proficiency Bonus to its 
Armour Class against one melee attack that would hit 
it. To do so, the creature must see the attacker and be 
wielding a melee weapon.
Reckless. The creature may choose to gain Advantage on 
all attacks it makes in a round, but all attacks on it gain 
Advantage until the start of its next turn.
 
Sneak Attack. Once per turn, the creature deals an 
extra 3 (1d6) damage when it hits a target with a weapon 
attack and has Advantage on the attack roll, or when the 
target is within 5 feet of an ally of the creature that isn’t 
Incapacitated and the creature doesn’t have Disadvantage 
on the attack roll.
Stealthy. The creature may use its bonus action each 
round to Hide.
 
Strike Fear (Recharge 5-6). As an action, the creature 
may force each opponent within 30 ft to make a Wisdom 
saving throw or become Frightened until the end of the 
the creature’s next turn. The DC is equal to 12 plus the 
creature’s Proficiency Bonus.
Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the creature 
has Disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks that rely on sight.
Thrall (Other Creature). This creature is a slave of 
another creature, known as its master. If the master is 
within the creature’s movement speed, the creature can use 
its reaction to become the target of an attack that would 
have hit its master. If the master is slain, the creature flees 
the battlefield.
Tough Hide. The creature is resistant to non-magical 
bludgeoning and slashing damage.
Weak Spot. If the creature uses a special ability that uses 
an action, any heroes that are within range may use their 
reaction to make a single attack. For this attack only, the 
creature is considered vulnerable to Piercing, Slashing 
and Bludgeoning damage.
Concerning the Undead
"Begone, if you be not deathless! For living or dark undead, 
I will smite you, if you touch him."
Many undead horrors haunt the lonely lands of old Arnor, 
in the shadow of the darker woods, and under the still 
waters of rotting marshes. Some are simply what remains 
of the ill-will of evil Men and proud Elves; others were 
minions of the King of Angmar, sent to infest barren hills 
and lonely barrows; others more are the restless souls of 
chieftains and warriors who fell prey to evil curses. 
The next section highlights the differences between the 
various types of undead creatures that the companions 
might one day (or night!) encounter during their 
adventuring. While the details are left to the individual 
monster descriptions, the following text may help the 
Loremaster greatly in distinguishing them, and let you 
design your own undead adversaries.
The Loremaster be warned though! While precise 
definitions are generally something to be desired in a game, 
sometimes they provide an explanation to things that 
should remain inexplicable, robbing a legendary world of 
its mystery. Keeping a level of uncertainty and providing 
only glimpses of a world that defies understanding goes 
a long way in preserving a sense of wonder in those who 
take part in the game.

--- PAGE 73 ---
73
Walking Dead
These monsters do not have much in common with 
the other undead creatures, as they are the product of 
some dark enchantment, and do not have a spiritual 
component. The walking dead are the bodies of the dead 
that have been reanimated by sorcery. In game terms, 
their characteristics vary wildly, based possibly on how 
old the reanimated remains are, and how much power 
have been infused in them. Generally, the walking dead 
are destroyed instantly if their source of power is undone 
(for example, the sorcerer who reanimated them is killed).
Typical Special Abilities: Fell Spirit, Strike Fear.
Examples of the Walking Dead include the Undead 
Warriors from Wilderland Adventures, and the Bog 
Soldiers described on page 82.
Wights
Wights are evil spirits that directly inhabit the remains 
of the deceased. As they control a body, their physical 
manifestation can be harmed normally, but their spiritual 
possession makes them much more resistant to injury 
and gives them several powerful abilities.
In game terms, a Wight is often deemed a lesser version 
of the more powerful Wraiths and given the ability 
Wraith-like. This improves its Armour Class and makes 
it resistant to non-magical weapon attacks. When its 
body is destroyed, the creature is defeated but the spirit 
is unharmed and flees to find some other barren place to 
haunt.
Typical Special Abilities: Craven, Denizen of the Dark, 
Spells of Despair, Wraith-like
Examples of Wights include the Night-Wight from 
Wilderland Adventures, the Wood-wights from Rhovanion 
Region Guide and the Barrow-wights on page 82.
Wraiths
These creatures are similar to the Nazgûl, as they were 
once living beings who were consumed by sorcery or 
another malevolent power. They are now undead, and 
exist in both the living world and the wraith-world. Unlike 
the Ringwraiths, these lesser wraiths have only a physical 
shape, albeit partially faded and thus resistant to harm.
The Nazgûl are a superior form of wraith and have their 
own special abilities.
Typical Special Abilities: Dreadful Spells, Fear of Fire, 
Strike Fear, Unnatural Vitality, Visions of Torment
The Fell Wraiths included in this supplement are an 
example of Wraiths.
Ghosts
The Ghost-form special ability defines once-living beings 
that do not have a physical body any more, but that are 
still able to affect the world of the living in some way. 
They may be the manifestation of restless souls of dead 
Men or faded Elves, still trapped in the circles of the 
world by some strong obligation, like a broken oath or 
an unfulfilled promise. 
Typical Special Abilities: Black Dread, Ghost-form, 
Incorporeal Movement, Thing of Terror, Words of Power 
and Terror
Spectres on page 85 are an example of Ghosts, as are the 
Dead Men of Dunharrow from the forthcoming Rohan 
Region Guide.
Special Abilities of the Undead
The following new special abilities are most suitable for 
the various undead creatures of Middle-earth.
Black Dread. When forced to make a Wisdom saving 
throw against this creature targets automatically have 
Disadvantage on the roll.
Darker than the Darkness (1/day). The creature can 
spend its action to summon a supernatural darkness. It 
is centred on the creature and extends out to a radius of 
15 feet. Torches and other non-magical light sources do 
not pierce the darkness. A magical light can counter the 
darkness effect but not dispel it. The effect lasts until the 
creature is slain or it spends a bonus action to cancel it.
Dreadful Spells (Recharge 5-6). One nearby foe must 
make a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw. If the target fails, 
it gains 1 Shadow point and becomes Paralysed for a 
number of rounds equal to its current Shadow Point total. 
A Player-hero can spend Inspiration to break this spell.
Evils of the North

--- PAGE 74 ---
Rivendell Region Guide
74
Feast on Suffering. Whenever a foe suffers a critical 
hit or is reduced to 0 hit points, the creature can use its 
reaction to regain 7 (2d6) hit points.
Fell Spirit (Recharge 5-6). When the creature would 
be reduced to 0 hit points, it may use its reaction to add 
temporary hit points, rolling a number of d6s equal to the 
creature’s Proficiency Bonus.
Ghost-form. This creature is insubstantial and cannot 
be easily hurt by normal means. It has resistance to 
acid, fire, lightning, thunder; bludgeoning, piercing, and 
slashing from non-magical attacks. It is immune to cold, 
necrotic and poison damage and the following conditions: 
Charmed, Exhaustion, Frightened, Grappled, Paralysed, 
Petrified, Poisoned, Prone, Restrained.
Incorporeal Movement. The creature can move through 
other creatures and objects as if they were difficult terrain. 
It takes 5 (1d10) force damage if it ends its turn inside an 
object.
Spells of Despair. As an action, the creature can force 
one target within 30 feet to make a Wisdom saving throw 
with the DC equal to 10 plus the target’s Shadow score. If 
the target fails the saving throw they become Frightened 
of the creature until the end of its next turn.
Undead Fortitude.  If damage reduces the creature to 
0 hit points, it must make a Constitution saving throw 
with a DC of 5 + the damage taken, unless the damage is 
radiant or from a critical hit. On a success, the creature 
drops to 1 hit point instead.
Unnatural Vitality. The creature can use its bonus action 
to regain 6 (1d12) hit points. It cannot use this ability to 
exceed its normal hit point maximum.
Visions of Torment. As an action, the creature can force 
one target within 60 feet to make a DC 15 Wisdom saving 
throw or take psychic damage equal to 2 (1d4) plus its 
total Shadow score.
Wraith-like. This is a creature of shadow, animated 
by undying hatred. It has resistance to all non-magical 
weapon damage and its base Armour Class is equal to 10 
plus twice its Dexterity modifier.
Words of Power and Terror (Recharge 6). A potent 
sorcery, it is employed as a reaction when a player 
announces the expenditure of Inspiration or Hit Dice to 
invoke a special ability, artefact blessing or a power of a 
legendary weapon or armour. The resource is still expended 
but the effect is cancelled.
Nazgûl Abilities
The following abilities are limited to Ringwraiths. The 
Difficulty Class given for saving throws is a base level, the 
growing threat of the Shadow can increase the power of 
the Nazgûl.
Black Breath. The Nazgûl can use its action to target a 
creature within 10 feet. That creature must make a DC 
14 Constitution saving throw. On a failure, the creature 
gains 1 Shadow point and becomes Unconscious. The 
creature may be revived as an action, but are Miserable 
until it takes a long rest. On a success, the creature gains 1 
Shadow point but remains awake. If a Ringwraith targets 
an Unconscious creature then it is subject to The Black 
Shadow (see the opposite page).
Deadly Voice. The Ringwraiths scream at their enemies 
with long-drawn wails that rise to deafeningly high 
piercing note. The Nazgûl can use its bonus action to make 
a Frightened creature become Stunned until the end of the 
Ringwraith’s next turn.
Dwimmerlaik. If a hero strikes the Nazgûl with a critical 
hit, it may use its reaction to invoke this ability. The hero 
must make a DC 14 Strength saving throw. If it fails, the 
hero’s weapon shatters, and the hero receives the damage 
total instead of the Ringwraith. Legendary weapons might 
not be destroyed, but are lost as a cold pain shoots through 
the hero’s body and she drops the weapon.
Shadow of Fear. The Nazgûl can direct its terrible will 
upon any Frightened mortal (Dwarf, Hobbit or Man) such 
that the victim becomes an agent for the Shadow. The 
Ringwraith may use its action to force the target to make 
a DC 14 Wisdom saving throw. On a failure, the target 
gains 1 point of Shadow and is compelled to carry out 
some service (such as reporting information to the Nazgûl) 
or perform a secret task. The compulsion lasts a number 
of weeks equal to the hero’s Shadow score. A spellbound 
hero is loathe to perform the compelled action and is

--- PAGE 75 ---
75
often nervous, moody or morose. Other members of the 
Company who note the change in their Companion can 
make a DC 15 Charisma (Intimidation) or Wisdom 
(Insight) check to provoke the hero (those with Dark 
Knowledge make this check with Advantage). A successful 
check allows the target to make another saving throw 
against the spell, ending its effects on a success.
The Black Shadow
A victim of the Black Shadow remains Unconscious 
for a number of days equal to his Shadow score. For 
each day spent in this state, the hero must make a DC 
15 Wisdom saving throw (this is reduced to DC 10 if 
tended to by someone familiar with The Weapons of 
the Enemy (see the Player’s Guide, page 68). Each 
failed saving throw adds 1 Shadow point to the hero, 
but does not extend the time spent Unconscious.
While the hero is Unconscious, if his Shadow score ever 
exceeds his Wisdom score then the character slips into 
even deeper dreams and then dies. 
If the hero resists for the length of the malady, he 
finally overcomes his sickness and wakes up (but 
maintains his new Shadow score).
Monsters of Eriador
"…there’s dark shapes in the woods, dreadful things that it 
makes the blood run cold to think of."
Some of the following creatures described make use of the 
extraordinary special abilities provided in the previous 
pages for the creation of Powerful Adversaries. A few 
others possess totally unique capabilities, described in 
full in their individual entry.
Dangers of the Wild
The wild and trackless lands of Eriador hide many enemies 
— foes to freeze the heart the Rangers say and they know 
better than most what hides in the desolate hills and steep 
valleys of the North.
Crebain of Tharbad
...for a whole regiment of birds had broken away suddenly 
from the main host, and came, flying low, straight towards 
the ridge.
Not all the creatures of the Wild are friendly to the Free 
Peoples and some are directly in the service of the Enemy. 
And there are others, who seeking dominion over their 
lands, might contrive to make alliances with fell things out 
of misguided purposes. Great flocks of crebain occupy the 
ruins of Tharbad. 
Crebain of Tharbad
Small Beast
STR 
6 (-2)
DEX 
16 (+3)
CON 
10 (+0)
INT 
7 (-2)
WIS 
15 (+2)
CHA 
5 (-3)
Armour Class 13
Hit Points 7 (2d6)
Speed 5 ft, fly 60 ft
Saving Throws Dexterity +5
Skills Perception +4
Senses darkvision 60 ft, passive Perception 14
Languages —
Challenge 1/4 (50 XP)
Flyby. The crebain doesn’t provoke Opportunity Attacks 
when it flies out of an enemy’s reach.
Keen Sight. The crebain has Advantage on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks that rely on sight. 
Actions
Talons. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 1 slashing damage. 
Evils of the North

--- PAGE 76 ---
Rivendell Region Guide
76
Greater Stone-troll
It is said that the Stone-trolls are the most canny of all the 
breeds that Morgoth made in mockery of the legendary 
Ent-folk and become more devious and dangerous as they 
advance in age. Or, perhaps, the foolish and weak amidst 
the Stone-trolls find themselves in the open at sunrise… 
Greater Stone-Troll
Large Giant (Troll-kind)
STR 
21 (+5)
DEX 
12 (+1)
CON 
20 (+5)
INT 
10 (+0)
WIS 
7 (-2)
CHA 
6 (-2)
Armour Class 16 (natural armour)
Hit Points 126 (12d10+60)
Speed 30 ft
Saving Throws Dexterity +4
Senses darkvision 60 ft, passive Perception 8
Languages Westron, Orcish
Challenge 5 (1,800 XP)
Sunlight Curse. Stone-trolls become Petrified and turn 
into stone if they are touched by the bright light of the 
sun. Once the sun rises, a Stone-troll must make a DC 
10 Dexterity saving throw at the beginning of its turn in 
order to find enough cover to avoid being turned to stone. 
On a failure, the Stone-troll becomes Petrified.
Actions
Multiattack. The Stone-troll makes two attacks: one with 
its troll-club and one slam.
Troll-club. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 14 (2d8+5) bludgeoning damage. 
Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 16 (2d10+5) bludgeoning damage.
Ettins
"Yes, I’m afraid trolls do behave like that, even those with 
only one head each."
Ettins are some of the oldest of Troll-kind, barely 
distinguishable from huge piles of rock. They exhibit 
abnormal features now lost to the Stone-Trolls, like having 
four arms, or two heads growing side-by-side from their 
shoulders. While the entry below has both features, most 
Ettins will only have one (removing one of these features 
does not affect the Challenge rating).
Ettin
Large Giant (Troll-kind)
STR 
21 (+5)
DEX 
8 (-1)
CON 
23 (+6)
INT 
6 (-2)
WIS 
10 (+0)
CHA 
4 (-3)
Armour Class 9
Hit Points 161 (14d10+84)
Speed 20 ft
Damage Resistances non-magical piercing and 
slashing 
Senses tremorsense 60 ft, passive Perception 10 (15 if 
two-headed, see below)
Challenge 6 (2,300 XP)
Four-armed. An Ettin with four arms can employ both 
Seize Victim and their Crushing Blow attack on the 
same round. Four-armed Ettins automatically recharge 
their Seize Victim ability without rolling.
Horrible Strength. If the Ettin makes a successful melee 
attack, it may use its bonus action to cause 5 additional 
damage of the same type to the target.
Two-headed. Ettins with two heads are much harder to 
catch unawares. Any attempts at Stealth are made with 
Disadvantage and the Ettin gains Advantage on both 
active and passive Perception checks.
Actions
Crushing Blow. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 
ft, one target. Hit: 18 (2d12+5) bludgeoning damage. 
Seize Victim (Recharge 5-6). The Ettin may choose to 
spend an action grabbing a creature within 5 feet of them. 
The target is automatically Grappled if it is of Medium 
size or smaller. To escape the Troll’s grasp, the target must 
use an action to escape: they must succeed on a DC 15 
Strength (Athletics) or Dexterity (Acrobatics) check. 
If the creature fails, it takes 5 bludgeoning damage and 
remains Grappled. An Ettin can seize a number of victims 
up to the number of hands that it possesses, but cannot 
use Crushing Blow if it does not have a free hand.

--- PAGE 77 ---
77
Goblins of Carn Dûm
A small, vicious breed of Orcs still inhabit the ruins of 
Carn Dûm. There they hide, when they don’t prowl the 
land with war-bands led by warriors of the Hill-men of 
Rhudaur, who profit from the Goblins’ abilities as scouts 
and look-outs. The Goblins both hate and fear those who 
defeated their master, the Dúnedain and the High Elves of 
Rivendell.
Goblin of Carn Dûm
Small Humanoid (Orc-kind)
STR 
11 (+0)
DEX 
15 (+2)
CON 
13 (+1)
INT 
8 (-1)
WIS 
12 (+1)
CHA 
8 (-1)
Armour Class 13 (Orcish Leathers)
Hit Points 13 (3d6+3)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Stealth +4, Perception +3
Senses blindsight 30 ft, darkvision 60 ft, passive 
Perception 13
Languages Orcish, Westron
Challenge 1/4 (50 XP)
Craven. If the Goblin starts its turn with 6 or less hit 
points, it must make a DC 10 Wisdom saving throw. On 
a failure, it becomes Frightened and must use its Dash 
or Disengage action to move away from any enemies. 
If movement is impossible, it will take the Dodge action 
instead.
Hate Sunlight. This creature despises the cleansing light 
of the Sun. If it is exposed to direct bright sunlight, it takes 
3 (1d6) psychic damage each round.
Hatred (Dúnedain and High Elves) (Recharge 5-6). 
The Goblins of Carn Dûm both hate and fear those who 
defeated their master, the Dúnedain and the High Elves 
of Rivendell. A Goblin can use its bonus action to gain 
Advantage on attacks against them this round.
Actions
Bent Sword. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 5 (1d6+2) slashing damage.
Bow of Horn. Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, range 
80/320 ft, one target. Hit: 5 (1d6+2) piercing damage. 
The victim must also make a DC 13 Constitution saving 
throw or be poisoned for 1 minute.
Hill-men of Rhudaur
On some… (hills) were old castles with an evil look, as if 
they had been built by wicked people.
Cruel warriors once serving the Witch-lord of Angmar, 
they were much reduced in numbers, but they still inhabit 
the land once ruled by their king. They received many gifts 
of sorcery, and have not forgotten their allegiance.
Evils of the North

--- PAGE 78 ---
Rivendell Region Guide
78
Mixed Warbands
If a group of adversaries includes both Goblins of Carn 
Dûm and Hill-men of Rhudaur, then the Goblins 
are emboldened (they are not considered Craven any 
more), and they gain Advantage on any active or 
passive Perception checks.
A typical mixed warband will have as many Hill-men 
as the Company has heroes and half as many Goblins 
serving as scouts or lookouts. They are an Easily 
Unnerved troupe and count as Challenge 5 rating 
if you treat them as a single entity for determining 
Experience points.
Hill-man of Rhudaur
Medium human (Evil Men)
STR 
14 (+2)
DEX 
10 (+0)
CON 
13 (+1)
INT 
10 (+0)
WIS 
11 (+0)
CHA 
12 (+0)
Armour Class 12 (Hide Armour)
Hit Points 27 (5d8+5)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Athletics +4, Shadow-lore +2
Senses passive Perception 10
Languages Orcish, Westron
Challenge 2 (450 XP)
Hatred (Dúnedain) (Recharge 5-6). Once, long ago, 
Rhudaur was under the dominion of the Dúnedain. While 
their hatred is centuries old, it has not grown cold. A Hill-
man can use his bonus action to gain Advantage on any 
attack rolls against a Ranger this round.
Raven Spirits.  Rumours say that when a Hill-man dies 
his spirit returns as a raven, to watch over his folk and 
spy on his dark master’s foes. No one knows for certain 
if their sorcery is still so strong, but when the Hill-men 
are about, the ravens are never far away… When the first 
Hillman dies in combat, a flock of ravens swoops down 
on the battlefield. When this happens, all enemies of the 
Hill-men have Disadvantage on their attack rolls until the 
end of combat. Each raven has AC 12 and 1 hit point but 
they have no attacks and are so numerous that defeating 
them with weaponry is almost hopeless.
Actions
Orc-axe. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 5 (1d6+2) slashing damage or 6 (1d8+2) 
slashing damage if wielded with two hands.
Spear. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 
5 ft or range 20/60 ft, one target. Hit: 5 (1d6+2) piercing 
damage or 6 (1d8+2) piercing damage if used with two 
hands to make a melee attack.
Curse of the Hill-men (1/day). The Hill-man can use 
his action to target a single hero who must then make a 
Corruption check, a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw. On 
a failure, the hero loses Inspiration and gains a point of 
Shadow. On a success the hero still loses Inspiration. If 
the hero does not have Inspiration, they gain Disadvantage 
on their next ability check, attack roll or saving throw.
Orcs of Mount Gram
The Orcs of Mount Gram have a long memory of their 
defeat at the hands of Bullroarer Took and fiercely hate all 
Hobbits, relentlessly attacking a company that includes 
one. The secret visits of the Wraith-lord to Mount Gram 
has fueled their hatred and has apparently made them 
more independently ambitious than others of their ilk.

--- PAGE 79 ---
79
As an unforeseen side-effect, the Orcs of Mount Gram 
frequently conspire against their neighbours, and dream 
of carving out a kingdom of their own in the North. This 
power-mongering tendency might lead a cunning chieftain 
like Radgul to exploit their war against the Dúnedain, for 
example by ‘accidentally’ leading a Ranger patrol to the 
location of a rival Orc settlement…
Orc of Mount Gram
Medium humanoid (Orc-kind)
STR 
17 (+3)
DEX 
13 (+1)
CON 
14 (+2)
INT 
10 (+0)
WIS 
11 (+0)
CHA 
15 (+2)
Armour Class 16 (cobbled-together Orc armour, shield)
Hit Points 26 (4d8+8)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Deception +4, Riddle +2 
Senses passive Perception 10
Languages Orcish, Westron
Challenge 1/2 (100 XP)
Hatred (Hobbits) (Recharge 5-6). The Orc can use 
its bonus action to gain Advantage on any attack rolls 
against a Hobbit this round.
Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the Orc has 
Disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks that rely on sight.
Actions
Bent Sword. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 6 (1d6+3) slashing damage.
Spear. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 
5 ft or range 20/60 ft, one target. Hit: 6 (1d6+3) piercing 
damage or 7 (1d8+3) piercing damage if used with two 
hands to make a melee attack.
Emissaries of the Enemy
Amid the many foes that inhabit Eriador, there are some 
of extraordinary cruelty and malice, such that they have 
become infamous and even the meekest of Bree-folk know 
to quail at their names. 
Bloodstump the Hunter
Bloodstump was the Hill-Troll Chief responsible for killing 
the Chieftain of the Dúnedain, Arador, the grandfather of 
Aragorn. He wields a terrible weapon, a dark gift from an 
invisible master…
Bloodstump the Hunter
Large Giant (Troll-kind)
STR 
21 (+5)
DEX 
8 (-1)
CON 
23 (+6)
INT 
6 (-2)
WIS 
10 (+0)
CHA 
10 (+0)
Armour Class 16 (bits of previous victims’ armour)
Hit Points 138 (12d10+72)
Speed 30 ft
Saving Throws Strength +8, Constitution +10, Wisdom +3
Skills Perception +6, Survival +3
Senses darkvision 60 ft, passive Perception 16
Languages Westron, Orcish
Challenge 7 (2,900 XP)
Cruel Stroke (Recharge 5-6). If Bloodstump has just hit 
with his Great Black Mace, he may spend his bonus action 
to turn the attack into a critical hit.
Hideous Toughness (Recharge after a short or long 
rest). Bloodstump can endure enormous damage. He 
may spend an action to growl menacingly at his foes and 
then gain a pool of 10 (3d6) temporary hit points that last 
till the end of the fight if not removed by combat damage.
Horrible Strength. If Bloodstump makes a successful 
melee attack, he may use his bonus action to cause 5 
additional damage of the same type to the target.
Hunter. Bloodstump doubles his Proficiency Bonus for all 
Wisdom (Perception) checks (included above).
Actions
Multiattack. Bloodstump makes two attacks: one bite 
and one strike with his mace.
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 10 (2d4+5) slashing damage. 
Great Black Mace. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, 
reach 5 ft, one target. Hit: 18 (2d12+5) bludgeoning 
damage.
Evils of the North

--- PAGE 80 ---
Rivendell Region Guide
80
Dreorg the Wargling
Dreorg the Wargling was once one of the Hill-men living in 
the vale of Gundabad, to the east of the Misty Mountains. 
To escape death, his spirit fled his form and entered that 
of a particularly large, savage Warg.
Dreorg
Large Monstrosity (Warg-kind)
STR 
17 (+3)
DEX 
16 (+3)
CON 
21 (+5)
INT 
11 (+0)
WIS 
13 (+1)
CHA 
15 (+2)
Armour Class 14 (natural armour)
Hit Points 94 (9d10+45)
Speed 50 ft
Skills Perception +4, Stealth +6
Senses darkvision 60 ft, passive Perception 14
Languages Westron, Wargspeech
Challenge 5 (1,800 XP)
Great Leap. Dreorg is capable of jumping huge 
distances. He may make a special Dash action to go twice 
his normal movement in a single jump. Any opponents 
in melee combat with him when he uses Great Leap get 
Opportunity Attacks as normal.
Keen Hearing and Smell. Dreorg has Advantage on 
Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on hearing or smell.
Pack Tactics. Dreorg has Advantage on an attack roll 
against a creature if at least one of his allies is within 5 
feet of the creature and the ally isn’t Incapacitated.
Savage Attack. When Dreorg scores a critical hit, he 
does an additional 5 (1d10) damage. This damage is not 
doubled by the critical hit.
Actions
Multiattack. Dreorg makes two attacks: one bite and one 
claw attack.
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 10 (2d6+3) piercing damage. If the target is a 
creature, it must make a DC 13 Strength saving throw or 
be knocked Prone.
Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 11 (1d12+5) piercing damage.
Reaction
Snake-like Speed (Recharge 5-6). Dreorg is adept at 
avoiding injury and can use his reaction to halve the 
attack damage on an attack that he is aware of.
Dreorg’s Warg-band
Dreorg is always accompanied by the most cruel wolves 
of his pack: at least three Wolf Leaders (see page 112 
of the Loremaster’s Guide). Wolves led by Dreorg do 
not suffer the effects of the Fear of Fire special ability 
and are additionally considered Thralls of Dreorg.
If you count the troupe as a single entity, it will be 
Challenge 10.

--- PAGE 81 ---
81
The Queen of Castle Hill
Rine, the self-proclaimed Queen of Castle Hill, is a huge 
solitary Stone-Troll with fists like boulders and a mind 
more cunning than most of her kind. Her weakness might 
lie in the excessive trust she puts in her improvised coat of 
armour…
Rine, Queen of Castle Hill
Large Giant (Troll-kind)
STR 
22 (+6)
DEX 
16 (+3)
CON 
25 (+7)
INT 
10 (+0)
WIS 
7 (-2)
CHA 
6 (-2)
Armour Class 16 (cobbled-together armour)
Hit Points 150 (12d10+84)
Speed 30 ft
Saving Throws Dexterity +6
Senses darkvision 60 ft, passive Perception 8
Languages Westron, Orcish
Challenge 8 (3,900 XP)
Hatred (Dwarves) (Recharge 5-6). Rine detests Dwarves. 
She can use her bonus action to gain Advantage on 
attacks against them this round.
Suit of Armour. Rine has Advantage on her Dexterity 
saving throws due to her Sunlight Curse as most of her 
body is shielded from the sun by her armour.
Sunlight Curse. Stone-trolls become Petrified and 
turn into stone if they are touched by the bright light of 
the sun. Once the sun rises, Rine must make a DC 10 
Dexterity saving throw at the beginning of her turn in 
order to find enough cover to avoid being turned to stone. 
On a failure, she becomes Petrified.
Weak Spot. If Rine uses a special ability that uses an 
action (her Smashing Blow), any heroes that are within 
range may use their reaction to make a single attack. For 
this attack only, Rine is considered vulnerable to Piercing, 
Slashing and Bludgeoning damage.
Actions
Multiattack. Rine makes two attacks with her Troll-
club.
Troll-club. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 15 (2d8+6) bludgeoning damage. 
Smashing Blow. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 
5 ft, one target. Hit: 15 (2d18+6) bludgeoning damage 
and the target must make a DC 16 Strength saving throw 
or become Prone. Miss: the target must make a DC 13 
Dexterity saving throw or become Prone.
Radgul the Orc Chief
Radgul is the chieftain of the Orcs of Mount Gram, a wily, 
scarred old Orc with ambitions on the throne of Mount 
Gundabad and the cunning and patience to achieve his 
goals.
Evils of the North

--- PAGE 82 ---
Rivendell Region Guide
82
Radgul
Medium humanoid (Orc-kind)
STR 
17 (+3)
DEX 
11 (+0)
CON 
18 (+4)
INT 
17 (+3)
WIS 
12 (+1)
CHA 
16 (+3)
Armour Class 18 (cobbled-together Orc armour, Huge 
Hide-shield)
Hit Points 59 (7d8+28)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Deception +5, Investigation +5, Persuasion + 5
Senses passive Perception 11
Languages Orcish, Black Speech, Westron
Challenge 3 (700 XP)
Hatred (Hobbits) (Recharge 5-6). Radgul can use 
his bonus action to gain Advantage on any attack rolls 
against a Hobbit this round.
Horrible Strength. If Radgul makes a successful melee 
attack, he may use his bonus action to cause 3 additional 
damage of the same type to the target.
Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, Radgul has 
Disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks that rely on sight.
Actions
Orcish Scimitar. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 
5 ft, one target. Hit: 8 (2d4+3) slashing damage.
Spear. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 
5 ft or range 20/60 ft, one target. Hit: 6 (1d6+3) piercing 
damage or 7 (1d8+3) piercing damage if used with two 
hands to make a melee attack.
Reaction
Commanding Voice. Radgul can inspire his allies 
with his sly words and half-empty promises. He may 
use his reaction to utter a command or shout a warning 
whenever a non-hostile creature, that he can see within 30 
feet, is about to make an attack roll or a saving throw. The 
target can add a d6 Command Die to that roll, provided 
it can hear and understand the message. A creature 
can benefit from only one Command Die at a time and 
creatures that possess Commanding Voice cannot benefit 
from this effect.
The Restless Dead
There are places in Eriador where it is said that the 
dead outnumber the living. This would be well enough if 
the dead would keep to their tombs and barrows, their 
shallow graves and clinging muck. But, sometimes, they 
stir and the air grows cold with death… 
Barrow-wights
Barrow-wights walked in the hollow places with a clink of 
rings on cold fingers, and gold chains in the wind.
Sent to the hills of Tyrn Gorthad by the sorcery of the 
Witch-king of Angmar to plague his enemies in the wars 
against Arnor, these restless spirits still rise from their 
tombs under the dreaded Barrow-downs. Known as the 
Barrow-wights, they are drawn by the life and warmth of 
those unfortunate travellers who are lost in the trackless 
region. They strike from the cover of thick mists, or under 
the cloak of night, seeking to subdue their prey with their 
spells and take them into their barrow tombs. There, the 
victims are sacrificed in a twisted ceremony that harkens 
back to their once-noble lives, for the corruption of Angmar 
lingers on even beyond death and the passage of time.

--- PAGE 83 ---
83
Barrow-wights
Medium Undead
STR 
17 (+3)
DEX 
13 (+1)
CON 
16 (+3)
INT 
10 (+0)
WIS 
13 (+1)
CHA 
11 (+0)
Armour Class 13 (tattered remnants of armour)
Hit Points 45 (6d8+18)
Speed 30 ft
Damage Resistances non-magical bludgeoning, 
piercing and slashing 
Damage Immunity poison
Condition Immunities Charmed, Exhaustion, 
Poisoned
Skills Perception +3, Stealth +3
Senses blindsight 30 ft, passive Perception 13
Languages Westron
Challenge 3  (700 XP)
Denizen of the Dark. The Barrow-wight is particularly 
adept at using the environment and shadows to its 
benefit. It may take the Hide action, even in plain sight. 
It makes a Dexterity (Stealth) check and any foes must 
make an opposed Wisdom (Perception) check to track its 
movements. 
Fell Spirit (Recharge 5-6). When the Barrow-wight 
would be reduced to 0 hit points, it may use its reaction to 
add 7 (2d6) temporary hit points.
Hate Sunlight. The Barrow-wight despises the cleansing 
light of the Sun. If it is exposed to direct bright sunlight, it 
takes 3 (1d6) psychic damage each round.
Actions
Ancient Sword. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 
5 ft, one target. Hit: 6 (1d6+3) piercing damage.
Chilling Touch. Melee Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 
5 ft, one target. Hit: The target must make a DC 13 
Constitution saving throw or become Stunned until 
the end of the Barrow-wight’s next turn. If the target is 
already Stunned then the target becomes Unconscious 
until it completes a short rest instead. Unconscious 
companions are dragged into the wight’s barrow to be 
sacrificed; if found in time, they may be roused with a DC 
10 Wisdom (Medicine) check.
Wight Song (1/day).  Barrow-wights chant a low, 
chilling song to subdue their foes with the dark 
enchantment of their voice. Each creature within 60 feet 
of the Barrow-wight must make a DC 10 Wisdom saving 
throw. Creatures that fail the saving throw are Stunned. 
A Stunned creature can repeat the saving throw at the 
beginning of its turn, ending the effect on a success. 
Bog Soldiers
…so utterly was Angmar defeated that not a man nor an orc 
of that realm remained west of the Mountains.
Beneath the bogs of the Ettenmoors lie the bodies of the 
Witch-king’s rearguard, withered and stained black by the 
foetid muck but recognisable still, even though a thousand 
years have passed. On dark, moonless nights, dozens of 
undead soldiers rise again from the silent waters.
Evils of the North

--- PAGE 84 ---
Rivendell Region Guide
84
Bog Soldier
Medium Undead
STR 
13 (+1)
DEX 
6 (-2)
CON 
13 (+1)
INT 
3 (-4)
WIS 
7 (-2)
CHA 
3 (-4)
Armour Class 8
Hit Points 22 (4d8+4)
Speed 20 ft
Damage Immunity poison
Condition Immunities Charmed, Exhaustion, Poisoned
Senses darkvision 60 ft, passive Perception 8
Languages None
Challenge 1/4 (50 XP)
Undead Fortitude.  If damage reduces the Bog Soldier 
to 0 hit points, it must make a Constitution saving throw 
with a DC of 5 + the damage taken, unless the damage 
is radiant or from a critical hit. On a success, the Bog 
Soldier drops to 1 hit point instead.
Actions
Short Sword. Melee Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 4 (1d6+1) piercing damage.
Grasping Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 5 
ft, one target. Hit: the target is Grappled (Escape DC 11) and 
the Bog Soldier can spend an action to drag the character 
into the deepest part of the muck… see the Bog combat 
scenery entry on page 91 of the Loremaster’s Guide.
Fell Wraiths
"…you would have become like they are, only weaker and 
under their command. You would have become a wraith 
under the dominion of the Dark Lord…"
It is said that many who died in the wars against Angmar 
fell victim to the Black Shadow, the terrible illness spread 
by the Nazgûl. But many others did not perish, and were 
slowly consumed by it instead. Condemned to a perpetual 
anguish by the sorcery of the Ringwraiths, they are still 
today their slaves, pale reflections of their dark masters, 
always intent at spreading darkness and corruption at 
their command. Fell Wraiths appear as crooked wanderers, 
roaming among ancient ruins and the sites of forgotten 
battles. They are generally wrapped in cloaks to hide their 
spectral features; their flesh is almost transparent, and 
their eyes seem to glow like embers. If encountered in the 
hours of twilight, they may pass as Men, as they can speak, 
even if with an unusual hissing voice and strange accents. 
Fell Wraiths carry old weapons and battered shields, relics 
from an age of strife they employ to deadly effectiveness.
Fell Wraith
Medium Undead
STR 
13 (+1)
DEX 
15 (+2)
CON 
17 (+3)
INT 
10 (+0)
WIS 
15 (+2)
CHA 
9 (-1)
Armour Class 16 (Wraith-like, Shield)
Hit Points 45 (6d8+18)
Speed 30 ft
Damage Resistances Non-magical bludgeoning, 
piercing and slashing
Damage Immunity poison
Condition Immunities Charmed, Exhaustion, Poisoned
Senses blindsight 30 ft, passive Perception 12
Languages Westron, Adûnaic, Sindarin
Challenge 2 (450 XP)
Fear of Fire. If a torch or other flame comes within 10 feet 
of it, the Fell Wraith suffers Disadvantage on its attack rolls.
Unnatural Vitality. The Fell Wraith can use its bonus 
action to regain 6 (1d12) hit points. It cannot use this 
ability to exceed its normal hit point maximum.
Wraith-like. The Fell Wraith has resistance to all non-
magical weapon damage and its base Armour Class is 
equal to 10 plus twice its Dexterity modifier.
Actions
Broadsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 6 (1d8+2) slashing damage.
Spear. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 
5 ft or range 20/60 ft, one target. Hit: 4 (1d6+1) piercing 
damage or 5 (1d6+1) piercing damage if used with two 
hands to make a melee attack.
Strike Fear (Recharge 5-6). As an action, the Fell Wraith 
may force each opponent within 30 ft to make a DC 14 
Wisdom saving throw or become Frightened until the end 
of the the Wraith’s next turn.

--- PAGE 85 ---
85
Spectres
There they stood silent, hardly to be seen, save for a red 
gleam in their eyes…
Not all the spirits that tarry in Middle-earth are bound 
to the service of Sauron, yet all feel the pull of his will. 
Powerful and strong-willed Men or Elves who died while 
pursuing acts of passion and great pride are often so 
consumed by their obsessions that they can linger on after 
death, haunting places they once used to love or inhabit.
Spectres are restless spirits that, while not violent in 
nature, sow sorrow and despair, seeking the lamentation 
of others in regret for their own misdeeds. They manifest 
only in the dead of night, and never far away from their 
haunting places. Their apparitions are said to intensify at 
times of great unquiet and coming death.
Spectre
Medium Undead
STR 
1 (-5)
DEX 
14 (+2)
CON 
11 (+0)
INT 
10 (+0)
WIS 
12 (+1)
CHA 
11 (+0)
Armour Class 12
Hit Points 54 (12d8)
Speed 0 ft, fly 50 ft (hover)
Damage Resistances Acid, fire, lightning, thunder; 
non-magical bludgeoning, piercing and slashing
Damage Immunities cold, necrotic, poison
Condition Immunities Charmed, Exhaustion, 
Frightened, Grappled, Paralysed, Petrified, Poisoned, 
Prone, Restrained
Senses blindsight 30 ft, passive Perception 11
Languages Those it knew in life
Challenge 3 (700 XP)
Black Dread. When forced to make a Wisdom saving 
throw against this creature targets automatically have 
Disadvantage on the roll.
Ghost-form. This creature is insubstantial and cannot 
be easily hurt by normal means. See the damage and 
condition resistances and immunities above.
Incorporeal Movement. The creature can move through 
other creatures and objects as if they were difficult 
terrain. It takes 5 (1d10) force damage if it ends its turn 
inside an object.
Actions
Grieve (Recharge 5-6). As an action, the creature 
may force each opponent within 30 ft to make a DC 15 
Wisdom saving throw (with Disadvantage, see above) 
or experience a harrowing sorrow, causing him to gain 
3 (1d4+1) Shadow points. If the target rolls a 1 on the 
saving throw, the target is also Stunned until the end of 
the Spectre’s next turn.
Visions of Torment. As an action, the creature can 
force one target within 60 feet to make a DC 15 Wisdom 
saving throw (with Disadvantage, see above) or take 
psychic damage equal to 2 (1d4) plus its total Shadow 
score.
Evils of the North

--- PAGE 86 ---
Rivendell Region Guide
86
The Wight-king
Cold be hand and heart and bone,
and cold be sleep under stone:
never more to wake on stony bed,
never, till the Sun fails and the Moon is dead.
In the black wind the stars shall die,
and still on gold here let them lie,
till the dark lord lifts his hand
over dead sea and withered land.
It is said that a spirit great and terrible dwells in the greatest mound of the 
Barrow-downs. Clad in ancient armour that has been pitted and ruined 
with age, he wields a broken blade with skeletal hands. All who look 
upon him know ruin and it is said that none who have fallen under his 
gaze are ever free from nightmares and restless slumber. He is said to wander 
between the fog banks of the downs at night, searching for lost travellers to 
take with him into his grand mound so that they might kneel forever before his 
subterranean throne.
The Wight-king
Medium Undead
STR 
19 (+4)
DEX 
13 (+1)
CON 
21 (+5)
INT 
10 (+0)
WIS 
13 (+1)
CHA 
15 (+2)
Armour Class 15 (tattered remnants of armour)
Hit Points 104 (11d8+55)
Speed 30 ft
Damage Resistances non-magical bludgeoning, 
piercing and slashing 
Damage Immunity poison
Condition Immunities Charmed, Exhaustion, Poisoned
Skills Intimidation + 5, Perception +4, Stealth +4
Senses blindsight 30 ft, passive Perception 14
Languages Adûnaic, Westron
Challenge  6 (2,300 XP)
Barrow of the Dead (Lair action, Recharge 6). If the 
Wight-king is in the Barrow-downs, he may use a Lair 
action to call the evil spirits of Tyrn Gorthad to him: 3 
(1d4+1) Barrow-wights arrive at the end of his next turn. 
Denizen of the Dark. The Wight-king is particularly 
adept at using the environment and shadows to its 
benefit. He may take the Hide action, even in plain sight. 
He makes a Dexterity (Stealth) check and any foes must 
make an opposed Wisdom (Perception) check to track 
his movements. 
Hate Sunlight. The Wight-king despises the cleansing 
light of the Sun. If he is exposed to direct bright sunlight, 
he takes 3 (1d6) psychic damage each round.
Unnatural Vitality. The Wight-king can use his bonus
action to regain 6 (1d12) hit points. He cannot use this 
ability to exceed his normal hit point maximum.
Actions
Multiattack. The Wight-king makes an attack with his 
sword and his Chilling Touch.
Ancient Sword. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 
ft, one target. Hit: 7 (1d6+4) piercing damage.
Chilling Touch. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, 
reach 5 ft, one target. Hit: The target must make a DC 14 
Constitution saving throw or become Stunned until the 
end of the Wight-king’s next turn. If the target is already 
Stunned then the target becomes Unconscious until it 
completes a short rest instead. Unconscious companions 
are dragged into the Wight-king’s barrow to be sacrificed; 
if found in time, they may be roused with a DC 10 
Wisdom (Medicine) check.
Darker than the Darkness (1/day). The Wight-king can 
spend his action to summon a supernatural darkness. 
It is centred on the wight and extends out to a radius of 
15 feet. Torches and other non-magical light sources do 
not pierce the darkness. A magical light can counter the 
darkness effect but does not dispel it. The darkness lasts 
until the Wight-king is slain or he spends a bonus action 
to cancel the effect.
Wight-king Song (Recharge 5-6).  The King chants 
a low, chilling song to subdue his foes with the dark 
enchantment of his voice. Each creature within 60 feet 
of the Wight-king must make a DC 13 Wisdom saving 
throw. Creatures that fail the saving throw are Stunned. 
A Stunned creature can repeat the saving throw at the 
beginning of its turn, ending the effect on a success.

--- PAGE 87 ---
87
The Lord of the Nazgûl
The third was taller than the others: his hair was long and 
gleaming and on his helm was a crown. In one hand he held 
a long sword, and in the other a knife.
The Lord of the Nazgûl is the chief lieutenant of Sauron, 
the most terrible among his servants and his most trusted 
follower. He was once a king of Men, learned in the dark 
arts of sorcery. He received a Ring of Power from the hand 
of Sauron himself, and was enslaved by it, until he became 
one of the Nine Ringwraiths.
As the Witch-king of Angmar he brought ruin upon Eriador, 
waging a relentless war against the North-kingdom of 
Arnor. His actions and machinations ended the royal line 
of Gondor, and forced the line of Isildur into hiding and 
exile. The Witch-king disappeared from the North after the 
battle of Fornost, when the armies of Angmar were finally 
routed by an alliance of Elves and Men from Gondor. 
After the return of Sauron to Mordor in the year 2951, the 
Wraith-king dwells in his stronghold of Minas Morgul, 
with five companions. There he waits upon his Lord’s 
commands.
The list of special abilities of the Lord of the Nazgûl 
represents the arsenal of dark sorcery and powers 
available to the main servitor of Sauron before the War 
of the Ring. While already extensive, the Black Captain’s 
capabilities will be greatly enhanced by his mentor in later 
years, as the Dark Lord puts him in charge of the Quest 
for the Ring, and later at the head of the vast armies to be 
unleashed at the conquest of the Free Peoples.
Dark Undead or Unclad and Invisible
The Nazgûl wear robes or suits of armour to assume a 
shape when they must have dealings with the living. But 
even when given a physical shape they cannot be easily 
destroyed, for the power of their Master is in them as long 
as the Ruling Ring endures. Use the Lord of the Nazgûl’s 
entry as Dark Undead when it confronts the heroes in 
physical form. However, the Ringwraiths may choose to 
appear as incorporeal ghosts. In this form few weapons 
in Middle-earth can assault them, and even the Elves 
perceive them only as dark shadows upon the world. Use 
the Lord of the Nazgûl’s stats for Unclad and Invisible 
when he is a spirit of creeping horror and dread.
The Wraith-lord
"A great king and sorcerer he was of old, and now he wields 
a deadly fear."
The Chieftain of the Ringwraiths rarely leaves his fastness 
in Morgul Vale. When he does, he generally travels in a 
form that is invisible to the eyes of the living, a rumour of 
darkness. When unclad and unmounted, the Morgul-lord 
can be seen only if he chooses to reveal his burning eyes, 
evoking terror in all living things.
Evils of the North

--- PAGE 88 ---
Rivendell Region Guide
88
The Lord of the Nazgûl, 
Unclad and Invisible
Medium Undead
STR 
18 (+4)
DEX 
15 (+2)
CON 
21 (+5)
INT 
14 (+2)
WIS 
12 (+1)
CHA 
20 (+5)
Armour Class 12
Hit Points 190 (20d8+100)
Speed 30 ft
Damage Immunities non-magical bludgeoning, 
piercing and slashing; cold, psychic 
Condition Immunities Blinded, Deafened, Frightened, 
Paralysed, Petrified, Stunned
Skills Intimidation +10, Perception +6
Senses Truesight 30 ft (otherwise blind), passive 
Perception 16
Languages Black Speech, Orcish, Westron
Challenge 13 (10,000 XP)
The Black Captain. The Nazgûl are fearsome 
opponents, but they are made even more formidable when 
encountered together with their Chieftain. If the Lord is 
accompanied by one or more Nazgûl, a target forced by 
any Ringwraith to make a saving throw makes that roll at 
Disadvantage.
Legendary. The Lord can take two Legendary actions 
each turn to use either his Black Breath, Spell of 
Prohibition or Thing of Terror abilities.
Thing of Shadow. The Ringwraith is Invisible.
Actions
Black Breath. The Lord can use his action to target a 
creature within 10 feet. That creature must make a DC 
16 Constitution saving throw. On a failure, the creature 
gains 1 Shadow point and becomes Unconscious. The 
creature may be revived as an action, but is Miserable 
until it takes a long rest. On a success, the creature gains 1 
Shadow point but remains awake. If a Ringwraith targets 
an Unconscious creature then it is subject to The Black 
Shadow (see page 75).
Shadow of Fear. The Lord can direct its terrible will 
upon any Frightened mortal (Dwarf, Hobbit or Man) 
such that the victim becomes an agent for the Enemy. The 
Ringwraith may use its action to force the target to make 
a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw. On a failure, see The 
Shadow of Fear (page 74).
Spell of Prohibition. The Lord can use his action to force 
one creature within 30 feet to make a DC 16 Wisdom 
saving throw. On a failure, the target is Stunned until the 
end of the Ringwraith’s next turn and drops any items that 
it is carrying.
Thing of Terror. The Lord can use his action to cause any 
number of targets within 60 feet of him to make a DC 16 
Wisdom saving throw. Those that fail are Frightened until 
the end of the Ringwraith’s next turn.
Morgul-knives
"Alas! the wounds of this weapon are beyond my skill to 
heal."
Enemies of the Nazgûl who die when pierced by a Morgul-
knife do not rest, but become Fell Wraiths under the 
dominion of the Dark Lord. If a companion is struck by a 
Morgul-knife, the hero must make a Constitution saving 
throw. 
The DC is equal to 10 plus the damage done to the 
companion by the knife. If the strike reduces the hero to 0 
hit points, the saving throw is automatically failed. If the 
saving throw is a failed, the blade of the knife has broken, 
and a splinter of the evil thing is within the hero.
Such an injury must be treated by a master of healing like 
Elrond Halfelven or a Scholar familiar with The Weapons 
of the Enemy as soon as possible. Treatment requires the 
healer tend to the victim during a long rest and succeed 
at a DC 15 Wisdom (Medicine) check. If this does not 
happen, the victim becomes sick and does not recover, 
and will soon be overcome: the wounded hero resists for 
a number of days equal to 12 plus the victim’s Wisdom 
modifier, then if he is still without cure he dies in pain, 
only to rise later as a Fell Wraith.
But a Morgul-wound will never truly heal. A hero who 
sustained such a grim injury feels a great chill spreading 
from the spot where he was pierced whenever he is 
traversing an area considered Blighted, or finds himself in 
sight of a Ringwraith: the companion must pass a DC 20 
Wisdom saving throw or gain a level of Exhaustion.
Moreover, the pain will return every year on the day the 
character received the Morgul-wound, and the companion 
will have to pass a DC 20 Wisdom saving throw, or gain 
5 (1d6+2) Shadow points.
There is only one positive side for those who survive a 
Morgul-wound: his senses become sharper, and he is 
more aware of things that cannot be seen. For example, 
the companion can see more in the dark than most, 
including Dwarves and Elves. In game terms, the hero 
gains Advantage on all Perception checks.

--- PAGE 89 ---
89
The Witch-king
"Then the Witch-king laughed, and none that heard it ever 
forgot the horror of that cry."
The former ruler of Angmar, the Witch-king has at times 
paid a visit to his ancient realm, travelling as far north as 
to the ruins of his own fortress, Carn Dûm, and the Orc-
stronghold of Mount Gram.  When in the North, the Lord 
of the Nazgûl may manifest himself once again clad in the 
guise of the Witch-king of Angmar: a tall, kingly warrior, 
black-robed and black-masked, wielding a long sword of 
steel.
The Lord of the Nazgûl 
as Dark Undead
Medium Undead
STR 
18 (+4)
DEX 
15 (+2)
CON 
21 (+5)
INT 
14 (+2)
WIS 
12 (+1)
CHA 
20 (+5)
Armour Class 12
Hit Points 190 (20d8+100)
Speed 30 ft
Damage Resistances non-magical bludgeoning, 
piercing and slashing; cold, psychic 
Condition Immunities Blinded, Deafened, Frightened, 
Paralysed, Petrified, Stunned
Skills Intimidation +10, Perception +6
Senses Truesight 30 ft (otherwise blind), passive 
Perception 16
Languages Black Speech, Orcish, Westron
Challenge 13 (10,000 XP)
The Black Captain. The Nazgûl are fearsome opponents, 
but they are made even more formidable when 
encountered together with their Chieftain. If the Lord is 
accompanied by one or more Nazgûl, a target forced by 
any Ringwraith to make a saving throw makes that roll at 
Disadvantage.
Deadly Voice. The Ringwraiths scream at their enemies 
with long-drawn wails that rise to a deafeningly high 
piercing note. The Lord can use his bonus action to make 
a Frightened creature become Stunned until the end of the 
Lord’s next turn.
Fear of Fire. If a torch or other flame comes within 10 
feet of him, the Lord suffers Disadvantage on his attack 
rolls.
Legendary. The Lord can take two Legendary actions 
each turn to use either his Black Breath, Spell of 
Prohibition or Thing of Terror abilities.
Unyielding (Recharge 5-6). The Lord can use his bonus 
action to gain 10 temporary hit points.
Actions
Multiattack. The Lord makes one attack with his Black 
Sword and one with his Morgul-knife or Claw.
Black Sword of Mordor. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to 
hit, reach 5 ft, one target. Hit: 8 (1d8+4) slashing damage. 
The Ringwraith can use his bonus action to add 5 (1d6+2) 
necrotic damage.
Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 5 (1d6+2) slashing damage.
Morgul-knife. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 
5 ft, one target. Hit: 6 (1d4+4) piercing damage and see 
Morgul-knives, page 88.
Black Breath. The Lord can use his action to target a 
creature within 10 feet. That creature must make a DC 
16 Constitution saving throw. On a failure, the creature 
gains 1 Shadow point and becomes Unconscious. They 
may be revived as an action, but are Miserable until 
it takes a long rest. On a success, the creature gains 1 
Shadow point but remains awake. If a Ringwraith targets 
an Unconscious creature then it is subject to The Black 
Shadow (see page 75).
Shadow of Fear. The Lord can direct its terrible will 
upon any Frightened mortal (Dwarf, Hobbit or Man) 
such that the victim becomes an agent for the Enemy. The 
Ringwraith may use its action to force the target to make 
a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw. On a failure, see The 
Shadow of Fear (page 74).
Spell of Prohibition. The Lord can use his action to force 
one creature within 30 feet to make a DC 16 Wisdom 
saving throw. On a failure, the target is Stunned until the 
end of the Ringwraith’s next turn and drops any items that 
they are carrying.
Thing of Terror. The Lord can use his action to cause any 
number of targets within 60 feet of him to make a DC 16 
Wisdom saving throw. Those that fail are Frightened until 
the end of the Ringwraith’s next turn.
Reaction
Dwimmerlaik. If a hero strikes the Lord with a critical 
hit, he may use his reaction to invoke this ability. The 
hero must make a DC 16 Strength saving throw. On a 
failure, the hero’s weapon shatters, and the hero receives 
the damage instead of the Ringwraith. Legendary 
weapons might not be destroyed, but are lost as a cold 
pain shoots through the hero’s body and she drops the 
weapon.
Evils of the North

--- PAGE 90 ---
Rivendell Region Guide
90
Ancient and
Forgotten
- treasures -
Before him were the bones of a mighty man. He 
had been clad in mail, and still his harness lay 
there whole… his hauberk was gilded. His belt 
was of gold and garnets, and rich with gold was 
the helm upon his bony head face downward on 
the floor.
There is more than just gold and precious stones to be found 
in deserted caverns and dark dungeons under the earth. 
In past ages of the world, Men, Elves and Dwarves long 
laboured to craft marvellous things from metal and stone, 
and put into their work all their lore, power and subtle skill.
These wondrous jewels, famous blades and suits of 
armour were given to sons and daughters as gifts, hoarded 
as treasures by greedy kings and lusted after and even 
stolen by thieves and burglars. Finally, they were lost, and 
passed out of the memory of the living.
But such remarkable things are not meant to remain lost 
forever. Their original purpose may have been forgotten 
with the passing of centuries, together with the name of 
their makers, but each item is part of a story and the tale 
is not yet complete. A day may come when a worthy blade 
will be found in a barrow among swords of lesser lineage, 
ready to serve a new fate in the hands of a hero; or, if the 
treasure had been left to rot in the shadow for too long, to 
work a curse upon him and draw him to a miserable end!
These rules introduce Hoards, ancient stores of treasure 
possibly containing jewels and artefacts created in past 
ages and possessing exceptional qualities, and Magical 
Treasure rolls, should the players attempt to search for 
anything unusual amongst the silver and gold.
What is a Hoard?
A Hoard is treasure, but it is different from a bag of coins 
offered by a rich merchant for some service. Most Hoards 
are ancient, or at least have items of days gone by amidst 
more recent loot. A pile of old gold found in a Goblin cave 
is a Hoard, as is the collected ‘shiny bits’ tossed into the 
Sentimental Value
Items in a Hoard possess more value than the simple 
weight of their precious metals or fine-cut jewels. Each 
was made for a purpose, even if no-one in these fading 
years now knows it. 
A golden crown found among the ruins of an ancient 
castle will have more value if brought to someone able to 
recognise it as a relic out of a familiar past, made for an 
honoured ancestral ruler by a crafter that was legendary 
to her people. While some objects will have lost their story 
along the way, the recovery of an item from a Hoard can 
allow a hero to become part of a larger story, with a rich 
history. Who made the item? Who commissioned it? Who 
was it for? Was it a gift, a reward or a trophy? How did 
it come to rest in the Hoard? How many hands have held 
it and wondered these same questions?
Should a companion make a gift or otherwise offer such 
an item to members of a folk whose tradition hearkens 
back to the time when the item was crafted, he would 
receive more than its intrinsic value in return. Such 
appreciation can increase the value of the item, perhaps 
doubling it or making even a Worthless Trinket fetch 
a few gold pieces from the right buyer. It might also 
provide for non-monetary benefits: Advantage during an 
Audience, easing the opening of a Sanctuary or special 
consideration from a Patron. But the provenance of an 
object might also lend itself to a new mission for the 
Company… what if a precious heirloom, long lost in the 
Wild, could be restored to its rightful place? Or perhaps 
a thing tainted by Shadow has been found, and the curse 
can only be lifted once the heroes know how it came to be 
among the Enemy in the first place…

--- PAGE 91 ---
91
corner of a Troll warren. The rarest and most fantastic 
Hoards found in the Wild will be those of Dragons, as 
their lust for the bright and beautiful is unmatched in 
Middle-earth.
The coffers of an Elf-lord or Dwarven chieftain may qualify 
as a Hoard as well; however, what is really important is 
how the companions acquire it, as theft is a Misdeed, 
causing an automatic Shadow point gain.
• 
As a general rule, any source of exceptional treasure 
encountered by the Company when exploring caverns, 
lairs and old ruins qualifies as a Hoard, and thus 
allows companions to make Magical Treasure rolls. 
Tainted Treasure
In the Adventures in Middle-earth Player’s Guide, the 
Tainted Treasure table on page 183 indicates the amount of 
Shadow gained by heroes who stumble upon gold or other 
precious items that are bearing the taint of corruption.
While normally it is the Loremaster’s duty to decide 
whether a source of treasure requires all companions to 
pass a Corruption check or not, in the case of a Hoard a 
player must make a Corruption check only if the Magical 
Treasure roll indicates it is necessary (see page 92).
Hoard Ratings
Not all Hoards are equal: if a Hoard is deemed to be 
very old, particularly rich, or untouched for uncounted 
centuries, the Loremaster may allow each hero to spend 
Hit Dice to roll again on the Magical Treasure table.
Hoards are signalled in this guide and future Adventures 
in Middle-earth publications by a numerical rating 
(representing the mundane treasure in gold pieces) and 
one or more asterisks (*). If the Hoard has:
(*) One asterisk: The treasure counts as a Hoard, but no 
reroll on the Magical Treasure table is allowed.
(**) Two asterisks: A Fine Hoard. Each player may spend 
two Hit Dice to reroll on the Magical Treasure table once.
(***) Three asterisks: A Mighty Hoard. Each player may 
spend two Hit Dice to reroll once, and then (if they like) 
spend another two Hit Dice to reroll on the Magical 
Treasure a second time. 
Once the Company’s magical treasure rolls are complete 
no more items remain to be found.
 
For example, Trotter’s company finds an old hoard, 
amounting to a value of Treasure 50**. The Hobbit makes 
a Magical Treasure roll to check if he finds anything of 
unusual worth, receiving only Ordinary Treasure. He 
spends two Hit Dice and rolls again…
Suggested Hoard 
Ratings
(50 or less)*
A lonely Troll’s loot, or a 
hoard previously plundered by 
robbers.
(50-100)**
Goblin plunder, old hoard, 
solitary Dwarf-hoard.
(100 or more)***
Ancient hoard, Dwarven city’s 
treasure trove, or Dragon’s 
hoard.
Magical Treasure Rolls
"I can put it no plainer than by saying that Bilbo was 
meant to find the Ring."
All companions who choose to inspect a Hoard start by 
determining whether luck delivers wonders before the 
lure of ready gold and other valuables turns them aside. 
A hero that wishes to make Magical Treasure Rolls must 
spend Inspiration. A companion that cannot (or does 
not) spend Inspiration instead receives a normal share of 
treasure. See Hoard Ratings, above.
Once the companion has found something they may 
either keep their discovery or spend Hit Dice in order 
to keep rolling. If a hero exhausts all their chances and 
did not discover anything (or if they found something 
but pressed on) they instead receive a normal share of 
treasure (determined by the numerical part of the Hoard 
rating).
Ancient and Forgotten Treasures

--- PAGE 92 ---
Rivendell Region Guide
92
Fate and Predestination
The mechanics governing the discovery of Magical 
Treasure are meant to represent predestination, the 
potential of a hero to become the instrument of a 
higher purpose and to play a role in the long-term 
development of a campaign. To further reinforce 
this, Magical Treasure rolls are meant to be strictly 
individual: a successful result obtained by one hero 
should never be used to pass the object found over to 
a different companion, especially when Legendary 
Weapons and Armour are concerned. After all, it was 
Bilbo who was meant to find the Ring, not Balin, 
Gandalf or Thorin… 
How to Make Magical Treasure Rolls
A companion rolls a d20 and compares the result to the 
following chart. Each result corresponds to one or more 
entries, explained below. If you do not like the result and 
the Hoard is eligible (see Hoard Ratings, above) you may 
spend Hit Dice to roll again.
D20
Magical Treasure Result
1 – 3
Worthless Trinket (Touched by the 
Shadow 6), plus Ordinary Treasure.
4 – 17
Ordinary Treasure (Touched by the 
Shadow 6).
18
Precious Object (Touched by the Shadow 
6).
19
Wondrous Artefact (Touched by the 
Shadow 5-6).
20
Legendary Weapon or Armour (Touched 
by the Shadow 4-6).
Touched by the Shadow
If you received this result, the item found may have been 
marred by having been left for too long in the shadows. 
The Loremaster rolls a d6. If the result is within the 
range specified, the companion must immediately pass 
a Corruption check (see below) or else gain a number of 
Shadow points as per the Tainted Treasure table below 
(see also Cursed Items, on page 99).
Tainted Treasure
Treasure 
Provenance 
(Examples)
DC
Shadow Gain
From the hoard of a Troll
12
1 point
From the hoard of a 
Dragon
15
1 point
Stolen from an ancient 
barrow
12
2 points
From a stronghold of the 
Dark Lord
15
1 automatic 
point. Then gain 3 
additional points if 
test fails.
‘Ordinary’ Treasure
If you receive this result, you found one or more items 
that have a value equivalent to your share of the Hoard. 
While the numerical rating is expressed in gold pieces, the 
nature of the actual Hoard will affect how it is expressed: 
Elven ruins might contain delicate silverwork, a barrow 
will have the grave goods of Men while a bandit Hoard 
will possess a variety of items stolen from the Free Peoples. 
Even ordinary treasure has a story, a Loremaster might 
wish to hint at the origins of the treasure in her description 
or use the Where Did It Come From? table on page 95 as 
inspiration.
If you are eligible, you may spend two Hit Dice to ignore 
this result and roll again on the Magical Treasure table.

--- PAGE 93 ---
93
Legendary Weapons and Armour
Each time this result is rolled, the Loremaster should 
award a Legendary Weapon or Armour to the hero, 
based on their designated items on the campaign’s 
Magical Treasure Index. If, for some reason, the index is 
not of assistance then the Loremaster can use the rules 
starting on page 132 of the Adventures in Middle-earth 
Loremaster’s Guide to create a new magical item.
Wondrous Artefacts
If a companion has located a Wondrous Artefact, the 
Loremaster will either select one from the Magical Treasure 
Index for the campaign or use the rules starting on page 
127 of the Loremaster’s Guide to create an artefact. The 
Loremaster may want to consider the needs and direction 
of the hero’s story and craft an item of special suitability. 
After all, there are strange powers at work, and even the 
wise cannot see all ends.
Worthless Trinkets
There were bones on the floor and a nasty smell in the air; 
but there was… an untidy litter of plunder, of all sorts from 
brass buttons to pots full of gold coins standing in a corner. 
There were lots of clothes, too… 
Not every item within a Hoard is something of extraordinary 
value, sometimes a simple thing might catch the eye of a 
hero with the promise of a reward beyond wealth itself. It is 
also possible that the Loremaster will sometimes present an 
item of greater significance as a Worthless Trinket for story 
reasons. When you obtain this result, the Loremaster will 
describe the item you’ve found, drawing suggestions from 
the following tables. A hero with a Worthless Trinket is 
still eligible for a share of the ordinary treasure.
If you are eligible, you may spend two Hit Dice to ignore 
this result and roll again on the Magical Treasure table.
1D20+1D10
Description of Trinket
2
A vase, made of pewter or fine ceramic that is of ancient origin. It might possess some sentimental value.
3
A magical Dwarven toy set, but part of it is broken or missing. Perhaps the owner of the Hoard has defiled 
or modified the toy in some way.
4
A purse or pouch with some small magic about it. Perhaps it squeaks or talks when opened, or if an 
individual ties a knot in its drawstring, the knot falls apart easily for that person but is extraordinarily 
difficult for anyone else to untie.
5
A book, slashed, torn or burnt. It requires a DC 10 Intelligence (Riddle) check to make anything of the 
writing inside, which is likely to concern only the small doings of ordinary folk.
6
A sickle, set of firemaking tools, lantern, or another useful item for a farmer or craftsperson. The item is not 
magical but is well-preserved and might have utilitarian or sentimental value for the right person.
7
A crude talisman of stone, wood or copper. A leather cord runs through a hole in the figurine so that it 
could be worn about the neck or on an arm. It has been handled so much that it is hard to determine the 
original shape of the figure.
8
A bag that contains several smaller pouches. Each pouch contains a pungent herb. None are useful for 
medicinal purposes, but will aid in cooking a variety of meals.
9
A pair of fur-lined boots, of just the right size for the hero who discovered them. They are stiff with age and 
caked with blood and mud, but with some care they still have years of service in them.
10
Several flasks that are obviously part of a larger set. Whatever liquid it contained (most likely alcohol) 
has either dried up or turned bad over the long years. They are of simple green glass and of little value 
themselves.
11
A small musical instrument, made of wood or non-precious metal (a set of pipes, a flute, a bell, hand drum 
or other similar item).
Ancient and Forgotten Treasures

--- PAGE 94 ---
Rivendell Region Guide
94
12
A set of travelling cookware or serving items (wooden bowls, plates, silver utensils, copper or iron pots and 
pans or similar things) from a distant culture. If this Hoard is ancient, they will almost certainly be useless.
13
A wheelbarrow, woven basket, wooden barrel or cask, or any other suitable storage container. It is empty 
but serviceable.
14
A key (made of brass, iron or silver). It fits no lock found anywhere in the vicinity. It might be found with a 
piece of string, length of chain or just tucked into the rotting remains of clothing.
15
A wooden token with some small faded scraps of paint still on the front of it. On the back someone has 
carved a name from one of the local cultures. The edges are worn smooth.
16
2d6+3 buttons or beads, made of brass, bone, gold or wood. They might be a matched set or a haphazard 
collection by the Hoard’s owner.
17
A set of fine clothing of a type preferred by one of the local cultures. It might well be torn, soiled or bloodied.
18
A set of jugs or baskets that once carried grain, oil or alcohol. Whatever remains is foul or rotten, or the 
tops of the jugs might be broken and the contents missing. Perhaps they bear the markings of a trading 
house of Lake-town.
19
A small metal flask (copper, iron or lead) still within the rotted remains of a cloth carrying sack. The stopper 
is missing and the flask is entirely empty. 
20
A collection of arrows remarkably intact and without rot or rust, wrapped in a cloth bundle. Each arrow 
has fletching of a different colour. (1d6+1 arrows, no special abilities)
21
A wooden bowl, stained and burnished with some dark lacquer. Exceedingly fine carvings line the 
outside of the vessel, the illustrations appropriate for wherever it was found (trees and forest creatures for 
Mirkwood, running horses for Rohan, stern folk and tall ships for the coasts of Gondor, etc.)
22
A small hand mirror, made of tarnished silver with a frame made of pewter or ivory from an oliphaunt. It 
would take considerable effort to make it presentable again.
23
A scabbard that chance (or other factors) has preserved over the long years. It bears runes of a kind not 
seen in the area for an age or more. The weapon it once held is missing or broken.
24
A marvellously large seashell of many colours. When a mortal holds it up to their ear, they hear nothing but 
silence. What an Elf might hear is unknown… 
25
A clasping amulet of gold or silver on a fine chain of the same metal, now broken or in pieces. Whatever it 
once held is long gone.
26
A little soft wallet on a string. Inside is an old wooden pipe and a pinch or two of pipeweed.
27
A bottle of lamp oil that is thicker and more viscous than normal. However, even a small amount of this oil 
will allow a lamp to provide a bright light for a long time.(1d4+3 uses, 8 hours per use, you cannot use this 
oil to attack a creature as it does not splash.)
28
An ornate walking staff, made for the height of a Hobbit or shortish Dwarf. It has an iron foot, and a copper 
handle that unscrews to reveal a hollowed out compartment. Within is nothing other than shards of glass 
and a small cork stopper.
29
A fanciful mask, like those favoured in Dorwinion for party-going. The imagery and construction of the 
mask might provide clues as to who made it and for what reason. 
30
A map or diagram on a scrap of vellum, possibly of a distant location. The ink is faded and maybe other 
hands have added their own notes. Roll 1d8. 1-5. The map leads nowhere or to a place that has already 
been looted. 6-7. The location is undisturbed but some guardian keeps watch over it. 8. The map has a 
secret that only a DC 20 Intelligence (Riddle) check reveals.

--- PAGE 95 ---
95
D20
Where Did It Come From?
1
Elves of Rivendell or the Grey Havens
2
Elves of Mirkwood or Lórien
3
Rangers of the North
4
Dwarves of the Blue Mountains
5
Dwarves of Erebor or the Iron Hills
6
Dwarves of the Grey Mountains
7
Dwarves of Ancient Days (Khazad-dûm, 
Belegost, Nogrod)
8
Hobbits
9
Men of Bree or Hillmen of Eriador
10
Bardings or Men of the Lake
11
Woodmen or Beornings
12
Men of Dunland or Isengard
13
Riders of Rohan or Leofrings
14
Men of Dorwinion or Easterlings
15
Men of Minas Tirith
16
Men of Dol Amroth
17
Men of Lebennin or Lamedon
18
Corsairs of Umbar or Black Númenóreans
19
Men of Near Harad or The South
20
Other folk of Elder Days now lost to legend
Precious Objects
He chose for himself from the pile a brooch set with blue 
stones, many-shaded like flax-flowers or the wings of blue 
butterflies.
This category includes gemstones, jewels, silver and 
gold ornaments whose quality is an extraordinary and 
enchanting beauty, either due to a prodigious level of 
craftsmanship or a subtle magical virtue. The Loremaster 
may use the directions presented in this chapter to create 
an item at the moment it is uncovered, or to design them 
carefully to include them in the campaign’s Magical 
Treasure Index (see page 97).
The Loremaster is encouraged to enrich the description 
of Precious Objects as well. Time imagining wonderful 
things with rich backstories is well spent, but it is not 
necessary to track down the full lineage of every crystal 
hanging from a fillet of Mithril; a few hints to a tragic or 
heroic heritage is enough to evoke the right mood. Even a 
single tidbit (for example, knowing for whom the Precious 
Object was intended for) can inspire players. This sort of 
information may be revealed to a player who chooses the 
Go See a Lore-master undertaking during a Fellowship 
phase (see page 23).
How Precious Objects Work
The extraordinary quality of a Precious Object is 
represented by an enhanced value, setting the object’s 
worth much beyond that of ‘ordinary’ treasure. This rating 
may be anywhere between 20 and 120 gold pieces, and 
can be set using the Precious Object Value table (see next 
page), or chosen directly by the Loremaster, taking into 
consideration that the uppermost rating (120 gold pieces) 
may afford a companion to live at a Prosperous Standard 
of Living for ten years.
Ancient and Forgotten Treasures

--- PAGE 96 ---
Rivendell Region Guide
96
A Precious Object’s Treasure rating replaces the finding 
hero’s share in the Hoard just uncovered (unless the 
object’s value is inferior to the hero’s share). The weight of 
most Precious Objects is 1 pound or less.
For example, the five members of the Company have 
found a cache of ancient treasure guarded by a crazed 
Orc-chieftain residing in the Ettenmoors. Having disposed 
of the brute, the heroes find his hoard rated at 100*. 
Trotter succeeds in his Magical Treasure roll, uncovering 
a Precious Object: it is a ruby the size of the Hobbit’s fist, 
glowing with a pink radiance and set in a silver wolf-
shaped brooch. Its value is equal to 60 gold pieces! The 
other companions receive their share of ordinary treasure. 
When Trotter visits Master Elrond and asks after his new 
jewel, he learns that it was a gift from one of the founders 
of Rhudaur, given to the chieftain of a hill tribe in order to 
ensure their loyalty to the new kingdom.
Precious Objects Descriptions
Roll on each table to assemble a description and value for 
the Precious Object.
1D10
Main Material
1
Pearl
2
Sapphire
3
Ruby
4
Amethyst (pink to purple)
5
Adamant (diamond)
6
White Elf-gem (see Gems, Jewels and Crystals)
7
Clear crystal
8
Emerald
9
Green Elf-gem (see Gems, Jewels and Crystals)
10
Green crystal
Gems, Jewels and Crystals
Many beautiful gems freed from the roots of mountains 
and hills were cut and set in necklaces, crowns, circlets 
and bracelets of precious metals by Dwarven smiths 
of great renown, in cities like Nogrod and Belegost, 
before Beleriand was broken. Many crystals and 
white or green gems of surpassing beauty were not dug 
from the earth, but created by the cunning hands of 
Elven craftsmen and gem-smiths, and filled magically 
with flaming light.
1D6
Form
1
Jewel (single gem)
2
Brooch
3
Necklace
4
Circlet or crown
5
Belt, chain or armband
6
Ring
1D6
Craftsmanship
1
Mannish (Númenórean)
2
Elven (Eregion)
3
Dwarven (Khazad-dûm)
4
Dwarven (Erebor)
5
Dwarven (Beleriand — Nogrod or Belegost)
6
Elven (Beleriand)
1D6
Value
1
1d6+14 gold pieces
2
2d6+28 gold pieces
3
3d6+42 gold pieces
4
4d6+56 gold pieces
5
5d6+70 gold pieces
6
6d6+84 gold pieces

--- PAGE 97 ---
97
- not all that -
glitters...
The great jewel shone before his feet of its own 
inner light, and yet, cut and fashioned by the 
dwarves, who had dug it from the heart of the 
mountain long ago, it took all light that fell upon 
it and changed it into ten thousand sparks of 
white radiance shot with glints of the rainbow.
The Adventures in Middle-earth Loremaster’s Guide 
provides a wealth of information on the most spectacular 
thing heroes are likely to find as a consequence of 
adventures: magical items. But you may wish for the hand 
of fate to guide the Company in their acquisition of such 
rewards. You can use the following rules to develop a set 
structure of magical items for your Company to discover, 
expand your options with new Enchanted Qualities and 
trouble your players with dread Curses for their newly 
discovered finds.
Magical Treasure Indexes
"This, Thorin, the runes name Orcrist, the Goblin-cleaver 
in the ancient tongue of Gondolin; it was a famous blade. 
This, Gandalf, was Glamdring, Foe-hammer that the king 
of Gondolin once wore."
Finding a magic ring or a famous sword in Adventures in 
Middle-earth might not be simply a matter of stumbling 
upon an exotic object. There is more to chance than 
coincidence in Middle-earth, as there are other powers at 
work far stronger…
A Loremaster wishing to detail in advance the potential 
contents of a Hoard discovered by the Player-heroes might 
first take some time to compile a Magical Treasure Index, 
a list detailing the magical items that will be featured 
in the Company’s campaign. When an unusual item is 
discovered in a Hoard, the Loremaster can refer to the 
Magical Treasure Index to check exactly what has been 
brought to light.
How to Compile a Magical 
Treasure Index
Magical items in Adventures in Middle-earth are 
categorised as either Wondrous Artefacts or Legendary 
Weapons and Armour. When creating a Magical Treasure 
Index, the Loremaster may decide to include Precious 
Objects (see page 95) as well, as they will likely be found 
in any Hoard worthy of the name. The exact number and 
type of Wondrous Artefacts are left up to the Loremaster. 
You may wish to determine these in advance, or you may 
work up only a certain number and then let fate (and the 
dice) determine the remaining contents of the Hoard. See 
page 91 for more information on determining the contents 
of a Hoard.
However, for the sake of fairness you should determine 
the precise number and nature of any Legendary Weapons 
and Armour that the heroes will have the chance to find. 
A Magical Index should comprise between 1 to 3 pieces 
of war-gear for each companion: weapons, or defensive 
items like shields, helms or coats of armour.
Sample Indexes
Starting from page 103, this chapter contains a number of 
sample indexes, created with different goals in mind. The 
title of each index and its description detail its goal and 
Not All That Glitters...

--- PAGE 98 ---
Rivendell Region Guide
98
application. Future supplements will also include sample 
indexes, to illustrate the sorts of magical treasure found in 
another region or connected to a specific series of events.
Loremasters are encouraged to create their own indexes 
though, based around the composition of the Company 
playing in their campaigns.
Why an Index?
Using the index lets the Loremaster keep a tight control 
over the level of magic he wants to introduce in a game 
of Adventures in Middle-earth, avoiding the problem 
of having too many heroes wandering around wielding 
Beleriand-forged blades or wearing Mithril armour. 
Additionally, the index lets the Loremaster ‘time’ the 
appearance of certain magical items in a campaign, for 
example to follow a wide-arcing plot involving the discovery 
of a particular object. Certain events might be triggered by 
the fortuitous finding of a lost artefact, or the companions 
could be left wondering how to confront a seemingly 
invincible threat, until they finally ‘stumble’ upon a weapon 
capable of giving them an edge. Finally, the index helps in 
keeping magical objects unique and wondrous. 
Finding a magical item should represent a major turning 
point in your campaign, with definite consequences on the 
future of a hero. A magical object isn’t just a new special 
ability, but a new feature in your storytelling.
Blank Index Form
The index form on pages 138 and 139 can be used to 
keep track of Precious Objects, Wondrous Artefacts and 
Legendary Weapons and Armour. Then when you are 
generating a Hoard and a die result calls for one of these 
items, you will have a ready-made result for the Company 
to discover.
New Enchanted Qualities
The silver corslet shimmered before his eyes like the light 
upon a rippling sea.
The Adventures in Middle-earth Loremaster’s Guide 
provides a great variety of Enchanted Qualities that you 
can make use of when creating legendary weapons and 
armour. The following list provides a few more options that 
are of lesser renown but of significant power all the same.
Ancient Elven-craft
Craftsmanship: Elven
Item: Medium Armour
Special: Bane
In addition to the benefit provided by the Elven-craft 
construction of this armour, it is wrought with spells for 
the protection of its wearer in battle against a certain foe. 
When a bane creature attacks you, gain an additional 
bonus to your AC equal to half your Proficiency Bonus 
(rounded up) against that attack only.
Elven-craft
Craftsmanship: Elven
Item: Medium Armour
This Quality represents the fine armour-craft of the 
Firstborn and allows the wearer to add their full Dexterity 
modifier to their Armour Class. Most items found of this 
type are Corslets of Elven-mail but a few Hauberks of 
Elven-scale were made for the War of the Last Alliance.
Gleaming Blade
Craftsmanship: Elven
Item: Close combat weapon
Special: Requires Luminescence
When your weapon’s Luminescence quality is activated, 
you may take a bonus action and spend Inspiration to 
make the weapon’s light glow fiercely in the presence of 
its enemies. Until the end of your turn, all attacks made 
with the weapon produce radiant damage instead of the 
weapon’s normal damage type.
Runes of Clarity
Craftsmanship: Elven
Item: Helm
Special: Bane
A helm bearing Runes of Clarity can help a hero focus on 
her enemies. By spending Inspiration, she gains Advantage 
on attack rolls against a bane creature until the end of the 
combat. The wearer must take a short or long rest before 
using this ability again.

--- PAGE 99 ---
99
Runes of Protection
Craftsmanship: Dwarven
Item: Heavy armour
This armour was crafted and ensorcelled such that it 
grants powerful protection against a singular damage 
type. The Loremaster will choose bludgeoning, piercing or 
slashing. When wearing the armour, you have resistance 
to non-magical damage of that type.
Sigil of Guarding
Craftsmanship:  Elven, Númenórean
Item: Helm
A helm with this sigil allows the wearer to anticipate the 
most dangerous strokes of an enemy. When struck by a 
critical blow, a hero can spend a Hit Die to take only half 
of the damage dealt.
Smiting
Craftsmanship: Dwarven
Item: Close combat weapon
This weapon is larger and heavier than others of its kind 
and is designed to produce profound effects upon those it 
makes contact with. When you score a critical hit with this 
weapon, you may elect to not do any bonus damage and 
instead force the target to make a Strength saving throw 
(DC equal to 12 plus your Proficiency Bonus). If the target 
fails the saving throw it is thrown 10 feet in a direction of 
your choice and is knocked Prone.
Superior Runes of Protection
Craftsmanship: Dwarven
Item: Heavy armour
This armour was crafted and ensorcelled to provide 
extraordinary protection against ordinary weapons. When 
you take non-magical damage from an attack, you may 
spend Inspiration and two Hit Dice to negate that damage.
Swiftness
Craftsmanship: Elven, Númenórean
Item: Close combat weapon
This weapon is exceptionally balanced and feels natural 
to even the least experienced of its wielders. You may use 
your bonus action to make a single melee attack with this 
weapon.
Enchanted Helms
Throughout the long years of the Ages of the world, 
the Free Peoples have always contended with the Great 
Enemy and his numerous servants. Thus it is not 
surprising that the items that bear the most powerful 
enchantments are often war-gear: weapons, armour 
and shields. But sometimes other items might receive 
similar enhancements, most notably a helm might be 
bound with spells for the benefit of its wearer. Helms 
can receive Enchanted Qualities that qualify for 
armour benefits.
In the case of helms, any magic that improves the 
protection of an item starts with a base value of +0 
to AC. A normal helm does not increase a Player-
hero’s armour class, but a Close-fitting Helm would 
grant +2 AC. However, its protection is limited — if 
a Player-hero bears both a helm and a shield, only the 
item with the higher bonus (or a single item if they are 
tied) will add to the hero’s Armour Class.
Cursed Items
About them lay many treasures, of gold maybe, though in 
that light they looked cold and unlovely. On their heads 
were circlets, gold chains were about their waists, and on 
their fingers were many rings.
A magical object carrying a taint differs from an 
unmarred object for the fact that the item has been 
partially corrupted by laying in the shadows for centuries, 
forgotten. Sometimes, the treasure has been left to rot long 
enough for the Shadow to have wound about it a darker 
fate.
If a companion discovers an item Touched by the Shadow 
(see the Hoard rules on page 90), the Loremaster may 
take the chance to introduce a Curse, in addition to the 
mandatory Corruption check.
Not All That Glitters...

--- PAGE 100 ---
Rivendell Region Guide
100
A cursed item does not differ from an unmarred one, and 
it is attributed to the companion exactly in the same way. 
The Loremaster simply proceeds to design the Curse that 
is laid upon it, either by choosing a Curse he designed 
previously for his own campaign, or by creating it on the 
spot using the rules below.
If the Loremaster isn’t sure and needs a hard and fast rule 
to determine whether an object is indeed cursed, he can 
roll a d12 and consult the table below:
Treasure Provenance 
(Examples)
Item is Cursed 
on a (D12)
From the Hoard of a Troll
1
From the Hoard of a Dragon
1–2
Stolen from an ancient barrow
1–3
From a stronghold of the Dark Lord
1–4
Worthless Trinkets and Precious Objects
If the Loremaster deems that a Curse lies upon an odd 
knick-knack, a heap of Dragon gold or a chest of precious 
gems, then usually that type of treasure just has an ill 
feeling about it and a character may struggle to sell it or 
make use of the treasure. Buyers will feel ill at ease and be 
unlikely to trust the hero, even if everything seems to be 
in order.
To make things slightly darker, cursed items might be 
denied any sentimental value (see page 90). A cruel 
Loremaster might set additional cursed features (see 
below) upon these lesser items.
Wondrous Artefacts and Legendary 
Weapons and Armour
Magical Treasure of a superior importance is more easily 
cursed. Note that if a player uncovers a Cursed Wondrous 
Artefact or a Legendary Weapon or Armour they must 
always face the Corruption check required, and also suffer 
the effects of the Curse.
How to Design a Curse
A Curse bestows an item with an additional feature, 
similar to a Blessing or an Enchanted Quality, except that 
it has a detrimental effect rather than a positive one. The 
Loremaster may consult the list of sample Curses found 
below to select one that he finds appropriate, or he might 
use them as inspiration to design new ones.
A Curse may not be initially apparent, but instead be 
turned on by a specific circumstance. If the Loremaster so 
chooses, a Curse may be unveiled as part of a Revelation 
episode (see page 113).
Examples of circumstances that might trigger a Curse 
include: leaving the area where the cursed item was 
found; exposing the object to the light of the moon; at the 
first shedding of blood; in the presence of a specific type of 
creature; upon entering a blighted area.
Lifting a Curse
When creating a cursed item, the Loremaster must 
secretly decide how the Curse can be lifted. This should 
be no small task and should definitely form the focus of 
an Adventuring phase in its own right. A Curse might only 
be lifted at the place of the item’s forging or by the light of 
the same moon by which it was made. It might require the 
casting of an ancient spell lost to the ages or by the slaying 
of a particularly dangerous creature.
Note that a cursed item is not an evil artefact, a device 
created by the Enemy and meant to condemn a companion 
to a life of misery. It is a wonderful object bearing a trace of 
darkness. While it may make a hero’s life more dangerous 
for a while, the introduction of a cursed item is primarily 
meant to make the game more exciting!

--- PAGE 101 ---
101
Once a Curse has been removed, the item reverts to being 
a regular Magical Item.
Examples of Curses
Then a wild thought of escape came to him. He wondered if 
he put on the Ring, whether the Barrow-wight would miss 
him, and he might find some way out. He thought of himself 
running free over the grass, grieving for Merry, and Sam, 
and Pippin, but free and alive himself. 
Darken
When the item is revealed (a sword is unsheathed, a glove 
is removed to reveal a ring and  so on) all shadows in the 
area seem to deepen, and all sources of light seem to grow 
weak. The phenomenon is particularly serious for the 
bearer of the item, who finds his sight seriously impaired. 
The companion makes any ability checks that rely upon 
sight with Disadvantage.
Since no source of light is able to dispel this darkness, 
bystanders may be confused and disoriented. 
Enfeebled
The item’s Curse worms away at its bearer, bringing with 
it a terrible weakness. The Loremaster chooses a single 
saving throw from Strength, Dexterity, Constitution or 
Charisma. The bearer makes those saving throws with 
Disadvantage.
Hunted
The presence of the item does not go unnoticed, and one 
type of enemy (Orcs, Evil Men, the Enemy) perceive it when 
they come near it. For the purposes of The Eye of Mordor 
rules this counts as the Enemy pursuing the Company, 
lowering the Veil score by 4 points. In addition, Journey 
Events and Revelation episodes triggered by the company 
may be made to revolve around these stalkers.
Ill-luck
Bad luck dogs the bearer at every turn, his victories turned 
to defeats by simple – but persistent – misfortune. Any roll 
of 1 on the d20 (even for ability checks or a saving throw) 
means an automatic failure for the bearer.
Ill-omen
The bearer’s arrival is preceded by dark warnings and 
fell omens, filling the hearts of former allies with dread 
and fear. Whenever the bearer is present for an Audience, 
the Company makes both the Introduction roll and Final 
Audience Check with Disadvantage.
Malice
The object does not love its bearer, and will try to cause 
him harm, or otherwise trouble him. If a skill roll concerns 
the item (as in the case of a skill check augmented by a 
Blessing, an attack roll for a weapon, or an foe’s attack roll 
for armour), the companion has Disadvantage on the roll 
(for armour, the attacker gains Advantage).
Owned
The item is owned or was created by another creature, 
much as the Ring was owned by Sauron. The item may 
have found its way into the hands of the companion so 
that the hero might unwittingly return it to its master. The 
Loremaster should decide upon a specific enemy to be the 
owner of the item, possibly choosing a recurring villain in 
his own campaign. When in the presence of its owner, the 
item becomes useless: its special features turn out to be 
completely ineffective.
Shadow Taint
The item bears a greater shadow-stain upon it than most 
cursed items. As long as the hero carries the item, his 
Shadow score is augmented by a value, ranging from 1 
to 4 points: 1 point for an artefact with one Blessing, 2 for 
one with 2 Blessings or a Greater Blessing; in the case of 
Not All That Glitters...

--- PAGE 102 ---
Rivendell Region Guide
102
a Legendary Weapon or Armour the Shadow increase is 
equal to the number of Qualities on the item. This Shadow 
increase cannot be removed or healed, and will raise the 
hero’s Shadow score until the Curse is lifted.
Weakness
So long as he bears this Curse, the bearer displays the 
worst Flaw connected to his own Shadow Weakness. The 
Loremaster can invoke it as per the normal rules, to impose 
Disadvantage, to make a saving throw to remain in control 
of themselves, or as a Failure Aggravation, and possibly to 
determine the effects of a Bout of Madness (see page 183 of 
the Adventures in Middle-earth Player’s Guide).
• 
Cowardly (Wandering-madness). When the curse 
takes hold of the bearer, all he can think of is turning 
tail and fleeing into the night.
• 
Murderous (Curse of Vengeance). A terrible thirst 
for blood and malevolence lies within the item, 
provoking the bearer to dark thoughts of violence and 
murder.
• 
Tyrannical (Lure of Power). The item foments a 
sense of overconfidence and arrogance within the 
bearer, causing him to belittle and undermine his 
companions.
• 
Treacherous (Lure of Secrets). The item fosters 
thoughts of paranoia and discord within the mind of 
its bearer, causing him to mistake his friends for foes.
• 
Thieving (Dragon-sickness). The item glitters with a 
sickly light that causes the bearer to desire more and 
more. 
Note that this Flaw is temporary, and does not count 
towards a companion’s full complement of four Flaws for 
the purposes of Succumbing to the Shadow.
Discovering the One Ring
Bilbo’s discovery of the One Ring in Gollum’s cave is a shining example of predestination, as discussed on page 92. 
Bilbo was meant to find the Ring, and then to pass it over to Frodo. Perhaps the Loremaster of Bilbo’s campaign 
was planning very far ahead indeed – maybe even not realising at the  time quite what he had created – he might 
merely have intended to give the Burglar a Wondrous Item  that gave him an unparalleled Stealth ability…
But how can the Ruling Ring of Sauron be created under the Magical Treasure rules? The short answer is that 
it can’t: it is the greatest magical artefact ever created in the history of Middle-earth after all. But let’s indulge 
a little bit more… The Ring would probably have a Greater Blessing of Stealth for its capability to make its 
wearer invisible, but eventually reveal later to bestow another Blessing on the skill that better defines its wearer’s 
ambitions and desires: Intimidation for a mighty warrior, Traditions for a leader of Men, Lore for someone who 
would desire to create things, Insight for those who seek to know the hearts of others… But what about its Curses? 
Well, let’s not even get started...!

--- PAGE 103 ---
Magical Treasure Index
Loremaster: -	 	
	
Campaign: Mirkwood Campaign
Campaign Members: Lifstan the Barding, Beli the Dwarf, Beran the Beorning, Caranthiel the Elf, 
	
	
           
  Trotter the Hobbit and the Bride.
 
- Precious objects -
Notes: 
A ruby that, by firelight, seems to glimmer with an inner 
flame even after the fire has been extinguished. Set onto 
a golden chain, whose fine links can only be Elven-
make.Worth 50 gold pieces.
An adamant ring that catches the weakest of lights, even 
when deep underground. Its size suggests it was made 
for the fingers of a Dwarf. Worth 30 gold pieces.
A coronet studded with sparkling white gems, made 
long ago for the Dwarven nobles of Erebor. Worth 40 
gold pieces.
A green gem the colour of the first shoots of spring, set 
into a golden brooch in the shape of a leaf. Possibly of 
Westernesse craft. Worth 20 gold pieces.
An iridescent pearl set within a simple silver circlet, 
recovered from the sea of the Cape of Forochel. The 
circlet is of Westernesse make. It is said that if one 
stares into the pearl for long enough, you can see into 
the past… or the future. Worth 120 gold pieces.
A pink-hued amethyst set into an intricately carved 
silver ring. The script carved upon it is in Quenya and 
says “I leave my heart to you.” Worth 40 gold pieces.
The goal of a pre-prepared Magical Treasure Index is that when a player successfully finds an item in a 
Hoard, the Loremaster can simply look at the index and find something that has been carefully crafted 
to suit that Player-hero. This sample Magical Treasure Index was designed for the Mirkwood Campaign, 
and is extremely rich and powerful. Each of the Legendary Weapons listed has been created with one of 
the pregenerated characters from Adventures in Middle-earth in mind, as have a number of the Wondrous 
Items. The needs of the campaign were considered in the making of this index and, whilst no one item is key 
to the campaign, many of them may prove beneficial in its later stages.
- Wondrous Artefacts -
Notes: 
A silver circlet, the wearer of which finds their tongue
similarly silvered (a Blessing to Traditions).
A war-horn, made by the people of the Northern 
Kingdom, and whose booming voice strikes fear in all 
foes (a Blessing to Intimidation).
A golden torc, inscribed with images of feasting and 
merry-making that lends grace to the voice of its wearer 
(a Blessing to Performance).
An Elven-carved wooden staff, which cause deer tracks 
— and others besides — to reveal themselves to the 
bearer (a Blessing to Survival).
A cloak lined with both enchantment and — more 
prosaically — fur, which makes the words of the wearer 
all the more comforting (a Blessing to Persuasion).
A ring made from silvered steel that reflects the 
innermost thoughts of any in its presence (a Blessing to 
Insight).

--- PAGE 104 ---
A simple Dwarven ring of iron that makes the hammer 
blows of the wearer strike the anvil with effortless 
precision (a Blessing to smith’s tools).
A short rod that was once the symbol of the art of 
leechcraft in the city of Belegost, and that instills a sense 
of peace and calm to a patient (a Blessing to Medicine).
A golden circlet carved with Dwarven runes that causes
the wearer to find precisely what he is looking for (a
Blessing to Investigation).
A magical ring, capable of sharpening the wits of any 
who wear it (a Blessing to Riddle).
A cloak of Elven make, the weave of which magically 
allows the wearer to blend seamlessly into his 
surroundings (a Blessing to Stealth).
A walking stick tightly wound with an endless spiral of 
Elven rhymes, which, when read aloud, seems to make 
the miles pass by all the faster (a Blessing to Survival).
A coil of fine Elven rope that can be furled out endlessly
and, once tied, will never come untied unless the owner 
commands it so (a Blessing to Athletics).
A seeing-stone, which, when held up to the dawn, shows 
what some hint of what has gone before in this place (a 
Blessing to History).
A broken shard taken from a mirror that once stood in 
an Elven manor, and through which ghosts of the past 
may still be seen - albeit fractured in time and place (a 
Blessing to Lore).
A simple knife that seems to cut a path through thickets
and bushes with the utmost ease (a Blessing to 
Survival).
An ivory horn that has been engraved with images of
defeated foes paying tribute to an ancient queen. When
lifted to the lips of its bearer it makes not a sound, but
men are compelled to bow down before her (a Blessing
to Intimidation).
A beautiful golden ring that glistens with the light of the 
sun, even at night, and that bestows a clarity of vision 
to its wearer (a Blessing to Perception).
- Wondrous Artefacts -
(continued)

--- PAGE 105 ---
Legendary Weapons and Armour
Companion:  The Bride
Item:  The Raven Axe of Arnor
Type: Long-hafted Axe 	 	
	
Craftsmanship: Númenórean
Banes: Evil Men, Undead
Qualities: 
1. Raging    2. Superior Fell    3. Keen
Notes: An axe of Númenórean craftsmanship, its broad 
head engraved with images of ravens and other carrion 
birds. Its age suggests it was crafted during the time that 
Arnor’s successor kingdoms struggled against the armies 
of the Witch-king of Angmar, and it is wound with spells to 
drive the restless spirits of the North back to their graves.
Companion:  Beli
Item:  The Coat of Shining Stars
Type: Heavy Mail	
	
	
Craftsmanship: Dwarven
Banes: n/a
Qualities: 
1. Cunning Make   2. Runes of Protection (Bludgeoning) 
3. Mithril Armour
Notes: In sunlight, this coat of Mithril chain seems 
dull and ancient, although it remains sturdy and well 
maintained. It is only underground, by the light of a torch 
or lamp, that it reveals the quality for which it is named: 
its mail links glisten, as though it were sewn from the 
stars themselves. 
Companion:  Beran
Item:  The Red Axe of Ruin
Type: Great Axe	
	
Craftsmanship: Dwarven
Banes: n/a
Qualities: 
1. Gleam of Terror   2. Grievous   3. Runes of Victory
Notes: This axe was forever stained red with the blood 
of Orcs at the Battle of Azanulbizar. Some say it was the 
axe of Nar, others Dain, but whoever wields it can cut a 
bloody swathe through rank after rank of Goblin. 
Companion:  Caranthiel
Item:  The Crown of Spiderhollow
Type: Helm 	
	
	
Craftsmanship: Elven
Banes: Spiders
Qualities: 
1. Ancient Close-fitting   2. Runes of Clarity       3.-
Notes: At first glance this delicate headpiece looks 
to have been woven from spider webs and ivy, but 
closer inspection reveals that it is carved from wood so 
delicately that it only appears so.
Companion:  Trotter
Item:  Bow of Celebrían
Type: Short Bow	
	
	
Craftsmanship: Elven
Banes: Orc-kind
Qualities: 
1. Sure Shot   2. Keen   3. Biting Dart
Notes: Whilst never actually owned by Elrond’s 
departed wife, this delicate bow is named in her honour 
for it was used on the tragic hunt for the Orcs that once 
captured her.
Companion:  Lifstan
Item:  Rune-shield of Ossiriand
Type: Great Shield 	
	
	
Craftsmanship: Dwarven
Banes: n/a
Qualities:  
1. Reinforced  	     2. Rune-scored Shield         3.-
Notes: So-called because, according to Dwarf legend, 
its wielder could use it to hold back the seven rivers of 
Ossiriand themselves. Whether there is any truth in the 
legend is rather difficult to prove, but it is certainly effective 
at holding back onrushing tides of Orcs. Aside from its 
ornate brass boss, cast in the shape of a roaring mountain 
lion’s head, this sturdy iron shield appears somewhat 
plain … except under certain moons, when its surface 
takes on an almost mirrored sheen and secret Dwarven 
runes glisten and gleam

--- PAGE 106 ---
Magical Treasure Index
Loremaster: -	 	
	
Campaign: The Quest for Erebor
Campaign Members: Bilbo Baggins, Thorin Oakenshield, Fíli and Kíli, Balin, Dwalin, Dori, Nori, Ori, óin, 	 	
	
	
            Glóin, Bifur, Bofur and Bombur.
- Precious objects -
Notes: 
A great, golden, two-handed cup, it is carved with bird 
and flowers, their eyes and petals jewels. Worth 100 
gold pieces, sentimental to the Dwarves of Erebor.
A necklace made of five hundred emeralds as green as 
grass, gifted to the Dwarves of Erebor by Girion, Lord 
of Dale. Worth 100 gold pieces, sentimental to the 
Bardings.
A belt of pearls and crystals, made to accompany the
Mithril Coat. Worth 60 gold pieces.
A belt crusted with scarlet stones. Worth 40 gold 
pieces.
A helm of figured leather, strengthened with steel and 
studded about the brow with white gems. Worth 60 gold 
pieces.
This sample Magical Treasure Index is based on the adventures of Thorin’s company on their quest to reclaim 
Erebor from Smaug, as though it were part of a campaign for Adventures in Middle-earth. Incidentally, the 
Hoard of Smaug was likely rated at 1000***, whereas the Hoard of the Trolls was rated at 50*.
- Wondrous Artefacts -
Notes: 
The Diamond Studs of Old Took
A pair of diamond studs that fasten themselves and 
never come undone until ordered (Blessing of Traditions)
The Arkenstone
This great white gem was the greatest prize ever found 
by the Dwarves. Named the Heart of the Mountain, 
the Arkenstone of Thrain, it is a globe with a thousand 
facets. It shines like silver in firelight, like water in the 
sun, like snow under the stars and like rain upon the 
Moon. (Greater Blessing of Persuasion).
Silver-scored Clarinet
This seemingly simple instrument makes music as clear 
and beautiful as any other, enchanting all who hear it 
(Blessing of Performance).
Searching Stick
A gnarled old walking stave that, when poked about into 
dark and dusty corners, has a habit of turning up just 
what is required (Blessing of Investigation).

--- PAGE 107 ---
Legendary Weapons and Armour
Companion: Thorin
Item: Orcrist
Type: Long Sword 	
	
	
Craftsmanship: Elven
Banes: Orcs
Qualities: 
1. Luminescence   2. Raging
3. Superior Grievous
Notes: A sword with a jewelled hilt, Orcrist was 
crafted by the High Elves of Gondolin for use in the 
Goblin-wars. Its name means Goblin-cleaver, but the 
Goblins know it better by  the name Biter. 
Companion: Bilbo
Item: Sting
Type: Short Sword	
	
	
Craftsmanship: Elven
Banes: Orcs
Qualities: 
1. Luminescence   2. Superior Keen
3. Superior Grievous
Notes: To a Man or an Elf, this blade might only be 
a dagger, but to a Hobbit it is akin to a short sword. 
Forged in Gondolin by Elven-smiths, this blade glows 
blue in the presence of Orcs and their foul kin.
Companion: Bilbo
Item:  Mithril Coat
Type: Coat of Mail	
	
	
Craftsmanship: Dwarven
Banes: n/a
Qualities: 
1. Ancient Cunning Make   2. Mithril Armour
3. -
Notes: This small mail shirt was once wrought for 
a young Elf-prince in the ancient past. It is made of 
Mithril and can turn even the most grievous of blows.
Companion: Balin
Item:  Silver Ring-mail
Type: Ring-mail		
	
Craftsmanship: Dwarven
Banes: n/a
Qualities: 
1. Ancient Cunning Make   2. Ancient Close-fitting
3. -
Notes: Once gifted to the son of Girion, the Lord of 
Dale, this mail coat was wrought of silver but was 
as strong as triple steel. Its like has never been seen 
before or since.
Companion: Fíli
Item:  Shield of the Dead
Type: Shield 	
	
	
Craftsmanship: Dwarven
Banes: n/a
Qualities: 
1. Superior Reinforced   2. Rune-scored Shield
3. -
Notes: This shield, ornately decorated by a Dwarven 
craftsman of ancient Erebor, was made for a warrior 
now-long dead. 
Companion: Glóin
Item:  Axe Under the Mountain
Type: Axe 	
	
	
Craftsmanship: Dwarven
Banes: n/a
Qualities: 
1. Superior Fell   2. Gleam of Terror
3. -
Notes: This silver-hafted axe was once wielded by 
the King Under the Mountain and was believed lost 
when Smaug the Terrible drove the Dwarves from the 
Lonely Mountain. Perhaps it was recovered when his 
hoard was divided among the victors of The Battle of 
Five Armies.

--- PAGE 108 ---
Magical Treasure Index
Loremaster: -	 	
	
Campaign: Eriador Adventures
Campaign Members: Cirmacar the High Elf, Fareth the Dúnedain, Frida of the Lake, Thraindan the Dwarf, 
	
	
             Tom Mugwort of Bree.
- Precious objects -
Notes: 
A great pearl set in an elaborate golden brooch carved 
with images of the sea. It is said to have been made in 
the lost Dwarven city of Belegost. Worth 40 gold pieces.
A ruby hanging from a simple silver chain made by 
the Men of Westernesse. It is said that, on the coldest 
nights, the ruby is always warm. Worth 60 gold pieces.
A great golden necklace of Dwarven-make, set about with 
dozens of tiny amethysts that sparkle in the sunlight. It 
was once worn by the finest beauty of Beleriand, or so the 
Dwarves would have you believe. Worth 40 gold pieces.
A delicate silver tiara decorated with a single diamond at 
the peak, of such workmanship it could only have been 
made in Eregion. Worth 100 gold pieces.
This sample Magical Treasure Index is based on the adventures of a Company adventuring in Eriador 
itself, and as such is slanted towards Elven and Númenórean treasures. Compared to the other two sample 
Magical Treasure Indexes, it is closer to what a ‘default’ power level should be, illustrating how you can 
tailor the potential of the magical treasure to suit the needs of your game.
- Wondrous Artefacts -
Notes: 
A ring crafted by the Men of Westernesse. When worn 
on the left hand it allows the wearer to find what was 
thought lost; when worn on the right hand it allows the 
wearer to hide what must not be found (a Blessing to 
Investigation and Stealth).
An otherwise unremarkable circlet that makes the 
wearer’s sight crystal clear (a Blessing to Perception).
A walking stick that seems to lead the way along 
untrodden paths (a Blessing to Survival).
A pair of soft leather slippers made from the hide of 
a white deer, that mask the footsteps of the wearer (a 
Blessing to Stealth).
A beautifully carved ring of gold that gilds the wearer’s
honeyed words (a Blessing to Traditions).
A sword sheath wound about with images of an ancient 
victory procession, perhaps dating to the First Age of 
the world. When a sword is drawn from this sheath, all 
who see it are compelled to bow down in honour to the 
bearer (a Greater Blessing to Intimidation).
A silver clasped collar that makes everything the wearer 
say seem agreeable (a Blessing to Persuasion).

--- PAGE 109 ---
Legendary Weapons and Armour
Companion: Fareth
Item:  Blade of Arahel
Type: Long Sword 	
	
	
Craftsmanship: Númenórean
Banes: Evil Men, Undead
Qualities: 
1. Keen   2. Raging
3. -
Notes: A finely made but unadorned long sword, this 
blade was said to have belonged to Arahel, one of the 
first chieftains of the Dúnedain. 
Companion: Frida
Item:  Moruin
Type: Great Bow 	
	
	
Craftsmanship: Elven
Banes: n/a
Qualities: 
1. Grievous	
2. Biting Dart
3. -
Notes: The wood that this bow was made from was 
hewed in ancient days from a Mallorn tree that had 
been blackened by the fires of war. Something of 
those dark days remains in the wood.
Companion: Thraindan
Item:  Helm of Belegost
Type: Helm	
	
	
Craftsmanship: Dwarven
Banes: n/a
Qualities: 
1. Close-fitting   2. Ancient Cunning-make
3. -
Notes: This slight, silvered-steel helm was once 
worn by a warrior of Belegost; what became of him 
has been lost to the annals of time, but the helm itself 
remains pristine.
Companion: Tom
Item:  Hollin-ward
Type: Shield	
	
	
Craftsmanship: Elven
Banes: Orc-kind
Qualities: 
1. Reinforced	
2. Warding Spell
3. -
Notes: In ancient times the Elves of Eregion and the 
Dwarves of Khazad-dûm were fast allies, until ill-fate 
befell both peoples. This shield dates from that time, 
and although of Elven craftsmanship it also bears the 
runic marks of the Dwarves.
Companion: Cirmacar
Item:  Hauberk of the Last Alliance
Type: Scale Hauberk	
	
	
Craftsmanship: Elven
Banes: n/a
Qualities: 
1. Elven-craft   2. Ancient Cunning Make
3. -
Notes: When the smiths of Eregion fled to Imladris, 
they began to prepare the Elven stronghold for war 
against the Dark Lord. These pieces of armour were 
among the finest of their craft – light and supple for 
those who marched long hours in pursuit of the enemy 
but strong enough to turn aside many an Orcish blade 
and arrow.

--- PAGE 110 ---
Rivendell Region Guide
110
the eye of
- mordor -
“The number must be few, since your hope is in 
speed and secrecy. Had I a host of Elves in armour 
of the Elder Days, it would avail little, save to 
arouse the power of Mordor.”
As the Twilight of the Third Age approaches and the War 
of the Ring begins, the will of the Dark Lord pushes all 
wicked things to evil ends. Especially after the revelation 
of Sauron in the year 2951, adventuring becomes more 
and more dangerous, as the Shadow begins to awaken 
again and its spies and servants are put on watch.
Many unfriendly things that have little love for Elves, 
Dwarves and Men are stirred into action, and those that 
dare to journey across Middle-earth find themselves often 
plagued by an ill-fortune. Distant folks grow suspicious 
and estranged once again. The arm of the Enemy is 
growing longer every day.
Furthermore, these are the years of the fading of the Eldar, 
and the waning of their power is felt in every corner of 
the land as a lengthening darkness. Everywhere but inside 
their protected sanctuaries, those who oppose the will of 
the Dark Lord risk to be noticed by prying eyes, and be 
confronted by His vengeance. But some heroes wait in 
secret places or move unseen among the common people, 
hidden from the Enemy’s attention. The possibility that a 
company catches the awareness of the Enemy is expressed 
in gaming terms through the optional mechanics 
concerning the Hunt and the Veil.
The Hunt
There was an eye in the Dark Tower that did not sleep. He 
knew it had become aware of his gaze. A fierce eager will 
was there. It leaped towards him, almost like a finger he felt 
it, searching for him.
The danger that a Company will attract the attention of 
Sauron depends on the composition of the group and their 
experience level. The Enemy keeps a closer watch on those 
individuals he hates, or fears, the most. A Company of 
seasoned veterans that includes a High Elf of Rivendell will 
raise more suspicion and stir the minions of the Shadow 
more easily than a smaller group composed solely of 
Hobbits on their first adventure.
The Hunt score begins equal to the highest Proficiency 
Bonus of the Company, and is further modified as below.

--- PAGE 111 ---
111
To keep track of the Hunt it is best to use a number of 
counters or tokens (black or red glass beads are ideal) that 
should be placed on the gaming table, within reach of all 
players. You will need approximately 20-25 tokens.
Companion’s 
Culture
Hunt 
Modifier
Hobbits
+0
Dúnedain and Men of Minas Tirith
+2
Other Men
+1
Dwarves
+1
High Elves
+3
Silvan Elves
+1
Loremaster characters journeying with the heroes are 
not normally considered part of the Company for the 
purposes of calculating the Hunt score.
Powerful weapons carried by the companions may also 
arouse the suspicion of the spies of Mordor: add 1 for each 
Legendary Weapon or Armour carried by the Company.
For example, a group of eight heroes (a Dúnedain, a Man 
of Minas Tirith, a Dwarf, an Elf of Mirkwood and four 
Hobbits) with no magical items and accompanied by a 
Loremaster Merchant would be at +6, which would be 
added to the highest Proficiency Bonus in the Company to 
create the initial Hunt score.
What does the Hunt represent?
For purposes of presenting the threat of the Hunt, the 
Loremaster should keep in mind that the mechanic 
does not simply represent the active searching for the 
Company on part of servants of the Enemy, but also 
the general malevolence of the land itself towards the 
heroes and their goals.
There are many strange and dark powers in Middle-
earth, and not all of them are necessarily in league 
with the Dark Lord… 
The Hunt Intensifies
During the Adventuring phase, the Company’s actions 
may lead to an increase in the Hunt score. The Loremaster 
must keep track of these instances and update the Hunt 
score accordingly.
Bitter Experience
A natural 1 on an ability check produces an increase in the 
Hunt score. Optionally, this effect can be reserved for rolls 
made under particularly dramatic or otherwise grave 
circumstances. Even a successful exploit can be tainted by 
fear and self-doubt. 
Conversely, if the Company is in a Sanctuary or another 
place deemed by the Loremaster to be safe, do not 
increase the Hunt score, no matter how many natural 1s 
are produced.
Shadow Gain
A hero who is tormented by grief and beset by the threat 
of corruption carries a burden that the Shadow is quick 
to recognise and exploit. Whenever one or more members 
of the Company gain Shadow points outside of combat 
increase the Hunt score by 1.
Using Magic
Blatant displays of magical power intensify the Hunt score 
as well, in a measure proportionate to the magical effect.
• 
If a companion uses a Virtue or class feature that is 
considered magical (see Magical Virtues and Features, 
page 112), raise the Hunt score by 1 point.
• 
A companion that uses a Wondrous Artefact may 
increase the Hunt score. A Small Effect does not raise 
the score, while a Medium Effect raises the Hunt by 1 
and a Large Effect increase the Hunt by 2 points.
• 
For those whose vision of Middle-earth includes OGL 
magic, when a spell is cast the Hunt is raised by a 
number of points equal to half the level of the Spell 
Slot used.
• 
Open displays of magical power invoked by a Wizard 
or another character capable of such feats increase 
the Hunt score accordingly. See Displays of Magical 
Power, page 112.
The Eye of Mordor

--- PAGE 112 ---
Rivendell Region Guide
112
Caranthiel, fearing a rampaging horde of Viglundings, 
tries to master the magic of The Cleft of Storms (Rhovanion 
Region Guide, page 47). As this effect is an 8th level spell, 
she will add 4 points to the Hunt score. This is powerful 
magic indeed!
(Magical) Virtues and Features
Many Virtues possessed by the various cultures of 
Middle-earth are considered to be magical by members 
of other folks, but often are simply the result of well-
honed professional skills and talents. Likewise, many 
Class features are the product of long years of training. 
But that is not always the case; some abilities can only 
be explained fully by taking into consideration the 
subtle enchantment of Middle-earth.
The following Virtues and features are considered 
magical for the purposes of increasing the Hunt score:
Beauty of the Stars	
Broken Spells
Compelling Words	
Healer’s Staunching Song
Night-goer	
Skill of the Eldar
Staunching Song	
Wood-elf Magic
Words of Command
Resetting the Hunt Score
After a Revelation episode (see page 113) or after an 
Adventuring phase ends, the Hunt score is reset to its 
basic value.
During a Fellowship phase, the Company retires to a 
place of safety and no longer provokes the interest of the 
Enemy. Thus, there are no Eye Awareness checks during a 
Fellowship phase, and the Hunt score begins at its basic 
value for the next Adventuring phase.
The Veil
‘Our names and our business are our own, and this does not 
seem a good place to discuss them,’ said Frodo, not liking the 
look of the man or the tone of his voice.
Wise decisions on the part of the Company, discretion 
amidst strangers and careful travel in the Wild can mask 
the heroes from the Shadow. The Veil score is the measure 
of how discrete the heroes are being, and what distractions 
they can bring to bear against the attention of the Enemy. 
You may wish to represent this with some sort of counters 
(white or clear glass beads, perhaps). This score starts 
as the highest Wisdom modifier of the Company and is 
further modified according to the table opposite:
Displays of Magical Power
"If there are any to see, then I at least am revealed to them," he said. "I have written Gandalf is here in signs that 
all can read from Rivendell to the mouths of Anduin."
Here follow some examples of undisguised magical feats of Loremaster characters that may cause an increase of 
the Hunt score for a Company. Note that not every use of magic does apply; for example, tracing signs on a surface 
that will be visible only to friendly eyes, or embellishing pipe-smoke or fireworks with shapes and colours does not 
intensify the Hunt – unless they are done in the wrong place, or at the wrong time, of course!
•	
Lesser effects (+1 point): Illuminate a dark passage with a short blaze of magical light, open a locked door, 
play tricks with voices or sounds.
•	
Major spells (+2 points): Light a fire in the storm, block a door against a powerful adversary, make a tree 
burst into flames. 
•	
Powerful spells (+4 points): Rain lightning down upon an advancing enemy, lend speed to a travelling company, 
make the waters of a river swell with rage.

--- PAGE 113 ---
113
Circumstances
Veil Modifier
The Company is travelling through 
Free or Border lands.
+2
The Company is travelling through 
Shadow or Dark lands.
-2
The Company is protected by 
the blessing of a Wizard or other 
powerful Loremaster character.
+4
The Company is travelling under 
false names, treading unused paths 
or are otherwise taking action to be 
discreet and unobtrusive.
+2
The companions have earned great 
renown in the area thanks to some 
exceptional deed.
-2
The Enemy actively searches for the 
Company, or their mission or goal 
is known to the Shadow.
-4
The Eye Awareness Check
‘These black men,’ said the landlord lowering his voice. 
‘They’re looking for Baggins, and if they mean well, then 
I’m a hobbit.’
As the Company ventures forth and strives against the 
will of the Enemy, they are likely to garner his attention. 
Whenever the Hunt score is increased the Company must 
make an Eye Awareness check. Events other than the 
Hunt intensifying can trigger this check; if the narrative 
demands that evil things might take notice of the heroes 
the Loremaster can ask for this check.
To make an Eye Awareness check, the Company as a 
group rolls a d20 and adds the Veil score to the result. 
A companion can spend Inspiration to grant Advantage 
on the check. The DC for the check is equal to the current 
(perhaps newly raised) Hunt score. 
If the check is failed, the Shadow will move against them 
— the Company has been revealed to the Enemy. The 
Loremaster will now introduce a Revelation episode, a 
dangerous event reflecting the actions of an increased 
hostility of the game world towards the members of the 
Company.
The source of this hostility may differ wildly from one 
Revelation episode to another: it may be the result of the 
direct actions of servants of the Enemy aimed to thwart 
the Company’s plans, an accident caused by the ill-will 
of another unfriendly power, or simply an unusual and 
sinister stroke of bad luck.
• 
As soon as the Loremaster has completed the 
Revelation episode, the Hunt score for the Company is 
set back at its starting level. From that moment on, the 
tally for the Hunt score is resumed normally; and thus 
may lead to another Revelation episode if another Eye 
Awareness check is failed, and so on, until the end of 
the Adventuring phase.
Revelation Episodes
To determine the precise nature and consequences of a 
Revelation episode, the Loremaster should usually weigh 
the current circumstances of the Company and choose a 
course of events that will change the heroes’ predicament 
for the worst. If the companions were already heading 
towards a difficult situation, now they will face one of 
their worst moments instead.
The Eye of Mordor

--- PAGE 114 ---
Rivendell Region Guide
114
Regardless of the details, whatever happens to the 
Company must spring naturally out of the ongoing flow of 
events experienced during a session; no Orcs appearing 
out of nowhere to attack while the Company is sleeping at 
Beorn’s House!
Additionally, the nature of a Revelation episode should 
always suggest that there are strange forces at work; a 
distinctive aura that smells of something dark and foul; 
a malicious misfortune, the unusual behaviour of men or 
beasts, the faint trace of sorcery.
Generally, the current situation should provide the 
Loremaster with enough suggestions upon which to 
improvise. If this is not the case, then the resolution of a 
Revelation episode should be held off, until an appropriate 
situation appears (possibly even waiting for the following 
session of play).
A typical Revelation episode may include a hero losing the 
other companions during a journey or while fleeing, the 
group running out of food as provisions are found to be 
unexpectedly spoilt, a decision taken by heroes proving to 
be the worst possible choice, an individual the Company 
was waiting for failing to show up at a crucial moment, 
and so on.
Examples of Revelation Episodes
"Is it the will of the Dark Tower that steers us? All my 
choices have proved ill."
Here follow several examples of how the Loremaster may 
worsen the situation of a revealed company. A level of 
customisation is required, to adapt all suggestions to the 
actual situation of play.
• 
Out of the Frying Pan…  The difficulty of all actions 
connected to the resolution of a chosen situation are 
increased and the companions automatically suffer 
Disadvantage. Once the situation is resolved (the 
Audience, Journey leg, etc.) then the Company is no 
longer at Disadvantage.
Serious Misfortune
If the Company is revealed by a failed Eye Awareness 
Check, it is possible this was triggered by another 
negative event (like a failed Journey Event or a bout of 
madness). When this is the case, the Loremaster should 
combine the two (or three!) unfortunate circumstances 
into a single grievous instance. In the books, the 
tragic attempt by Boromir to seize the Ring may 
be interpreted in game terms as a bout of madness 
coinciding with the revelation of the Fellowship, while 
the attack by the Watcher in the Water in front of the 
gates of Moria could be seen as the cumulative effect 
of a Journey Event and a Revelation episode. But evil 
events often prove to have some benefit in the end — 
Bilbo would not have found the Ring if he had not 
been caught by Goblins, nor would he have escaped 
Mirkwood (or The Battle of Five Armies) if the 
Dwarves had not been captured by the Elves! When 
all seems against the heroes, they might suddenly be 
presented with an opportunity that otherwise would 
have been overlooked.

--- PAGE 115 ---
115
• 
Láthspell. The coming of the company is interpreted 
as ill-news, and the heroes are given a colder welcome 
than expected: the introduction check of the Audience 
fails automatically, as suspicions are roused and 
old prejudices flare up; if the Final Audience Check 
is failed the companions are expelled, imprisoned or 
otherwise refused any help or support.
• 
Do not tempt me! A severe and tantalizing trap is 
set before a companion and the hero must make a 
DC 20 Wisdom check. The nature of the challenge 
may be overt or subtle, and should be based on the 
character’s Shadow weakness. If the hero fails the 
check, he is subjected to the same consequences of 
a bout of madness (see the Player’s Guide, page 183) 
and gains 1 or more points of temporary Shadow.
• 
Lies and Threats. An ally becomes an enemy, through 
coercion, betrayal or even sorcery. The individual is 
now bent to do harm to the companions, and either 
acts directly or schemes in the dark.
• 
A Weariness of the Heart. An unnatural sense of 
tiredness has gotten hold of the Company. Whether it 
is due to some subtle sorcery or else it is not clear, but 
all companions immediately increase their Exhaustion 
level by 1 and cannot reduce their Exhaustion to below 
level 1 until the Loremaster deems the spell has passed.
• 
A Will That Lends Speed. An enemy that the 
Company was chasing or holding prisoner escapes, 
as if helped or hidden by an unseen hand.
• 
Guided by Sinister Purpose. A potential threat the 
company had a chance to avoid is now waiting for 
them. An Orc patrol they could try to ambush now 
automatically spots them; a Troll they could sneak 
past sniffs them at the worst possible moment; an 
unnamed terror that was sleeping in the deep places 
of the world is now aware of their passage. If the 
Company is on a Journey they are now subject to The 
Keen Eyes of the Enemy.
• 
Reckless Hate. One enemy type that will be faced 
in combat soon gains the special ability Hatred 
(subject), focused on one heroic culture represented 
in the company.
• 
Deadly Strife. An enemy that will be faced in combat 
soon gains the Hideous Toughness ability. The 
Loremaster might draw on the misfortunes of the 
Company to explain why the foe that they now face is 
exceedingly difficult to defeat.
• 
We Come to Kill. One enemy type that will be faced 
in combat soon gains the special ability No Quarter.
• 
No Common Foe. The Shadow moves against the 
Company and he does not stint in spending his hatred. 
The enemies that the heroes will face gain a special 
ability — either one appropriate to their creature type 
or the enemy group is now a troupe with one or more 
beneficial troupe abilities.
The Eye of Mordor

--- PAGE 116 ---
Rivendell Region Guide
116
- High Elves of Rivendell -
“And here in Rivendell there live still some of his chief foes: the Elven-wise, lords of the Eldar from 
beyond the furthest seas.”
Elrond Halfelven founded Imladris, the Last Homely House, in an age of darkness 
and fear, when all that was good and fair in the world retreated before the growing 
power of the Enemy. This place has ever been a secret refuge for the High Elves, 
the eldest and fairest of all Eldar.
In Rivendell they have dwelt in peace for many long centuries, but as the Third 
Age draws to a close, they have come to realise that the songs they sing in the 
Hall of Fire will soon become sorrowful dirges once more. Remembering 
past horrors and the ruin brought by the corruption of the Shadow, they 
lament what the future may bring – though let us not say that they are 
afraid. The High Elves are fair and tall, proud and powerful. They will 
not cower before the rising darkness out of the East.
Yet the wanderer who comes to Rivendell finds the High Elves to 
be creatures of contradiction. One moment they are merry 
and fair, chiding the younger races in song and jest. The 
next their faces turn grim and their words stern as 
they speak of the fading of the world.
Their long reckoning of the past 
ages of Middle-earth has taught 
them to savour each day to the 
fullest and face each sorrow with 
majesty and grace. More than any 
other folk in Middle-earth they know 
the virtue of hope and the power of 
shadow.

--- PAGE 117 ---
117
Description
In Rivendell can be found Elves with long, flowing golden 
locks, silver tresses and hair the colour of the dark shadows 
of twilight. They are at once venerable and noble as a king, 
yet hale and hearty as a warrior. They are tall and lithe, 
yet possess great strength and endurance. All High Elves of 
Rivendell have one thing in common: their pale faces are 
ageless, neither old nor young, yet written on them are the 
memories of both gladness and sorrow.
High Elf Names
Most names below belong to important Elves, and should 
only be used as examples to create new ones (Elven naming 
conventions are too complicated to summarise here).
Male Names: Aegnor, Beleg, Celegorm, Daeron, Fingon, 
Finrod, Gwindor, Mablung, Maeglin, Orodreth, Saeros.
Female Names: Ancalimë, Arwen, Berúthiel, Celebrían, 
Celebrindal, Elwing, Finduilas, Galadriel, Idril, Nimloth, 
Nimrodel.
Standard of Living
The halls of Rivendell are filled with all manner of relics 
and treasure of the olden days, preserved by Elrond and 
his kin. Although dwindling in number, the High Elves 
of Imladris still craft beautiful objects and they have 
little need of anything from beyond their borders. Their 
culture’s economy is ranked as Prosperous.
Bonus Equipment:  A grey or slate blue travelling cloak, 
travelling gear for the current season, a backpack or 
saddlebags, a belt dagger, boots, 5d6 silver pennies, and 
choose any two: A grey blanket, a hunting knife, a wineskin, 
a white jewel on a chain of silver, any artisan’s tools or a 
musical instrument.
High Elf Traits
Your Player-hero has certain traits as a High Elf of 
Rivendell.
Ability Score Increase — Your Wisdom score increases 
by 2 and you may increase any two other attributes by 1 
each.
Adventuring Age – 500 to 1000. The High Elves of 
Rivendell are creatures from another age. They may 
become adventurers any time after they reach adulthood, 
although they are unlikely to venture beyond Imladris 
until they are half a millennia or more old. Even though 
a starting High Elf is far more ‘experienced’ than those of 
other cultures, he is still young and weak compared to his 
elder kin, and so is unlikely to be more than a thousand 
years old.
Size – Elves range from 5 to over 6 feet tall, with slender 
builds. Your size is Medium.
Speed – Your base walking speed is 30 feet.
Night Vision — Accustomed to walking under the revered 
starlight, you have superior vision in dark and dim 
conditions. You can see in dim light within 60 feet of you 
as if it were bright light, and in darkness as if it were dim 
light.
The Eyes of Elves — You have proficiency in the Perception 
skill.
Elvish Dreams — Your sleep is not like that of mortals. 
When you sleep, you can choose to send your mind into 
an “Elvish Dream” retaining full consciousness of your 
surroundings and you needn’t close your eyes. Four hours 
spent in such dreams acts on you as if you had rested an 
entire night.
Against the Unseen —  High Elves can perceive creatures 
that dwell in the wraith-world, be they spirits or ghosts, 
even when they are normally Invisible to the eyes of the 
living (including Unclad and Invisible Ringwraiths).
Additionally, High Elves are immune to the Frightened 
condition when the source of that condition is an undead 
creature.
Elf-wise — You have fought against the Dark Lord for years 
uncounted, and will continue to strive against the Enemy. 
You are proficient in Corruption checks. A Corruption 
check is any Wisdom saving throw that risks 1 or more 
Shadow points for failure.
Beset by Woe — High Elves cannot ever truly forget the 
taint of the Shadow once it has left its mark on their 
spirit. Whenever you undertake to Heal Corruption, you 
High Elves of Rivendell

--- PAGE 118 ---
Rivendell Region Guide
118
immediately lose 1 point of temporary Shadow and gain 1 
point of permanent Shadow. You may then make an ability 
check to remove temporary Shadow points as normal (see 
page 200 of the Player’s Guide).
The Tools of War — You have proficiency with daggers, 
spears, great spears, short swords, long swords, short 
bows and great bows.
Subtlety of Craft — You have proficiency in one artisan’s 
tool of your choice.
Languages — In addition to Westron (the Common 
Tongue), you can speak, read and write Sindarin. You also 
use Quenya, the Ancient Tongue, in song and high matters 
of lore.
Cultural Attitudes
The High Elves of Rivendell tend to remain within their 
sanctuary or wander the lands by secret Elven ways. But 
when great deeds must be done, those chosen by fate will 
perhaps find themselves holding forth with the lords of 
the First-born. The following table indicates not only how 
High Elves are perceived by other cultures, but also how 
others who visit them are received by the Eldar.
Cultural Virtues – High Elves 
of Rivendell
Artificer of Eregion
Many eyes were turned to Elrond in fear and wonder as he 
told of the Elven-smiths of Eregion and their friendship 
with Moria, and their eagerness for knowledge.
You are studying the ancient craft of the Elven-smiths of 
Eregion, the greatest craftsmen of your kin. You learn how 
to Evaluate Treasure when you first select this virtue. You 
may later master the secret of how to Enhance Weapons 
by training during your undertaking; finally, you discover 
how to Enchant Weapons by spending another undertaking 
training at your forge. Only Imladris (or another suitable 
Elven Sanctuary) can provide you the tools and materials 
to make use of these abilities.
Evaluate Treasure
You recognise the runes and secret symbols employed by 
the artificers of old to mark their work. When you discover 
a Hoard during an Adventuring phase you may treat the 
Hoard rating as being one more * than normal, affording 
you the opportunity to spend additional Hit Dice to make 
another Magical Treasure roll.
Enhance Weapons
Choose the Elven-smithing undertaking (see page 119) to 
retire to your smithy and customise a weapon to suit the 
combat characteristics of its wielder.
When you first enhance a weapon in your smithy, its user 
gains a non-magical bonus of +1 to all his attack rolls 
using the customised weapon. You may later undertake to 
improve the same weapon once again, for a total bonus of 
+2. These enhancement bonuses are applied until the hero 
wielding the weapon improves his Proficiency Bonus. When 
this happens, the companion loses the associated bonuses, 
but you may eventually enhance it again, repeating the 
customising procedure. Note that while certainly skillful, 
you cannot improve the craftsmanship of old: you may 
only enhance a weapon that does not have a magical 
 
Cultural Attitudes Chart
High Elf is
Men of 
Rhovanion*
Bree-folk
Dúnedain
Dwarves
Other 
Elves
Men of 
Minas 
Tirith
Hobbits of 
the Shire
Riders of 
Rohan
Visitor
Unknown
Askance
Favoured
Neutral
Favoured
Friendly
Unknown
Askance
Host
Neutral
Neutral
Friendly
Neutral
Friendly
Friendly
Neutral
Neutral
*This category includes Bardings, Beornings, Men of the Lake and Woodmen.

--- PAGE 119 ---
119
bonus. For example, you may not improve Dwarf-forged 
weapons, Birthright weapons, certain Cultural Heirlooms, 
or weapons that possess Enchanted Qualities. You can, 
after an enhancing a normal weapon, enchant that 
weapon once you learn the Enchant Weapons ability.
Enchant Weapons
Choose the Elven-smithing undertaking to use all your 
cunning as an artificer to work some of the light of the 
Blessed Realm into a weapon. The improved weapon now 
may harm creatures that would be normally vulnerable to 
enchanted weapons (like Wraiths and Ghosts, for example) 
and deals magical damage of its normal damage type.
Beauty of the Stars
Pippin afterwards recalled little of either food or drink for 
his mind was so filled with the light upon the Elf-faces.
Your beauty is so unearthly that all but the hardest-hearted 
of Mortals can gaze upon you and not be swayed – or 
bewitched – by your countenance, even if afterwards they 
retain only a vague memory of anything but your glory.
Raise your Charisma score by 1 point, to a maximum 
of 21. Additionally, when you serve as spokesperson for 
the Company in an Audience you automatically gain 
Advantage on the Introduction check. Finally, if you 
succeed at the Final Audience check, you may select one 
of the benefits below:
• 
When resolving an audience with Mortals (Dwarves, 
Hobbits, Men of all kinds), the Company counts as 
having achieved the best possible result (succeeding 
by +6 or more, usually). Otherwise this benefit instead 
raises the level of success by one step.
• 
After resolving an audience with Mortals, choose a 
Loremaster character: that creature retains only the 
vaguest memory of what was said or agreed. This 
effect counts as a magical Virtue for the purposes of 
increasing a Company’s Hunt score (see page 111).
New Fellowship Undertaking: Elven-smithing
The Sword of Elendil was forged anew by Elvish smiths...
A companion who is an Artificer of Eregion may retire 
to his smithy to give himself unto the hammer and 
anvil to either enhance a weapon or to enchant it. To 
complete his work, an artificer must accumulate 6 
Craftsmanship points, in one or more undertakings. To 
gain Craftsmanship points, during the same Fellowship 
phase the companion may make a Strength check, spend 
Hit Dice or gain Shadow, or a combination of the three.
•	
Make a Strength check, adding your Proficiency 
Bonus if you are proficient with smith’s tools. The 
DC for Enhance Weapons is 12 plus the weapon’s new 
attack bonus. The DC for Enchant Weapons is 15. 
Gain 1 Craftsmanship point on a success, 2 points if 
you succeed by 5 or more, and 3 if you succeed with a 
natural 20 result.
•	
Spending Hit Dice, you gain 1 Craftsmanship point 
for each 2 Hit Dice you choose to spend. You begin 
the next Adventuring phase with these Hit Dice 
already expended.
•	
Finally, you may acquire Craftsmanship points by 
gaining Shadow, at the cost of 1 Shadow for each 
Craftsmanship point gained.
If you do not succeed in accumulating 6 points in the same 
Fellowship phase, take note of the number of points gained 
so far, to resume the work at a later Fellowship phase 
(the companion will have to choose the Elven-smithing 
undertaking again). 
It is possible to improve an item for someone else. In this 
case, the companion who will receive the weapon will 
have to stay in Rivendell for the Fellowship phase and 
take part in the making of the artefact by renouncing to 
choose another undertaking. The artificer will still make 
the Strength check, but it is the other companion who will 
might spend Hit Dice or gain Shadow to complete the 
work.
High Elves of Rivendell

--- PAGE 120 ---
Rivendell Region Guide
120
Elbereth Githoniel!
"A Elbereth Gilthoniel – o menel palan-diriel, – le nallon 
sí di’nguruthos!"
The name of Elbereth, the Queen of the Stars, is revered by 
all the Eldar still dwelling in Middle-earth. You may call 
on her name in a moment of great need, asking the Kindler 
to bestow her grace upon you.
If you or one of your companions have a level of Exhaustion 
or are Miserable, you can invoke the name of Elbereth and 
spend Inspiration. You gain Advantage on your next roll. 
Additionally, each Elven hero, Elf-friend and any who have 
been Blessed by the First-born (see page 76 of Wilderland 
Adventures) in the Company gain Advantage on their next 
die roll too.
Might of the Firstborn
…on his brow sat wisdom, and in his hand was strength.
By the power that is in them, Elf-lords can fight the most 
wicked among the servants of the Enemy.
You may use your reaction and spend two Hit Dice to 
prevent an enemy creature from taking an action on its 
turn. The creature can still use its bonus action if it has 
one and that bonus action does not rely on the creature 
taking an action. For example, Might of the Firstborn 
cannot negate the Fearsome Bellow of a Hill-troll but a 
Savage Assault requires the creature to have taken the 
Attack action and thus it would be stymied by the High Elf.
After using this ability, you must make a Corruption 
check, a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw. If you fail, you 
gain 1 point of Shadow and you may not use Might of the 
Firstborn again until you take a short or long rest.
Skill of the Eldar
"…we put the thought of all that we love into all that we 
make."
At the height of their powers, Elves are capable of reaching 
levels of finesse unattainable by mortals.
When you succeed at an ability check you may spend 
Inspiration. If you do so, you are considered to have rolled 
a natural 20 on the die and gain whatever benefits such 
a result would grant for that check. When you use this 
Virtue something unusual has taken place, something 
that Mortal onlookers can only attribute to ‘Elf-magic’.
Using this Virtue raises the Hunt score for the Eye of 
Mordor. See page 112 for more information.

--- PAGE 121 ---
121
Cultural Heirlooms – High Elves 
of Rivendell
A High Elf adventurer winning renown can be rewarded 
for his deeds with gear of great worth, coming from the 
vault hidden under the House of Elrond, or from his 
private collection.
Lesser Ring
You have inherited a lesser ring, one of the many magic 
rings that the smiths of Eregion made as essays in their 
craft before it was fully developed. While certainly not 
comparable to the major works of those gifted craftsmen, 
this magic ring is a powerful and dangerous artefact, to be 
kept secret and safe. Choose one of your attributes, when 
making an ability check using the attribute you may spend 
a Hit Die to gain Advantage on the check. However, the 
temptations of such power weigh heavily on your heart. If 
you use this benefit and fail the check anyways you gain 1 
point of Shadow.
Books and Maps of Forbidden Lore
Elrond has entrusted you with the access to many precious 
texts and ancient maps compiled by Elvish scribes and 
long-dead scholars of the Dúnedain concerning the 
Shadow and its effects on the land.
Thanks to this secret knowledge, you have learned to 
recognise the presence of the Shadow in an area. You 
automatically recognise the threat of the Shadow when you 
are about to enter a Blighted place. When this happens, 
you may make a DC 10 Intelligence (Shadow-lore) 
check: on a success, you identify the source of the blight, 
allowing you and your companions to have Advantage on 
any required saving throws.
Additionally, if you traversed at least one Blighted area 
during the last Adventuring phase and you succeeded 
in the associated Shadow-lore check, you may spend 
a Fellowship phase compiling your experiences as your 
undertaking, you gain Advantage on the next check you 
make for this ability.
Spear of the Last Alliance (Great Spear)
Thousands of spears were forged in the smithies of 
Imladris to arm the hosts of Gil-galad, and their long 
staves of ash were capped by a long spike at the other end.
When you succeed at an attack roll using a Spear of the 
Last Alliance, you may spend Inspiration to make a second 
attack roll against a different opponent that is within the 
weapon’s reach.
High Elves of Rivendell

--- PAGE 122 ---
Rivendell Region Guide
122
a barren
and pathless
- country -
‘There are trolls!’ Pippin panted. ‘Down in a 
clearing in the woods not far below. We got a 
sight of them through the tree-trunks. They are 
very large!’
While Eriador has a well-deserved reputation as an 
empty land, there are still people that call it home or pass 
through it on occasion. Dwarves and other merchants 
walk the East Road, wandering companies of High Elves 
walk beneath the starlight, and the Dúnedain patrol the 
lands from hidden refuges. Still, there are long stretches of 
land where there will be no one to come to the assistance 
of the Company, should they encounter danger along the 
journey.
The following tables provide a list of examples customised 
for Eriador for each Journey Event. They should serve as 
inspiration for creating events that involve the people and 
places of this guide but should also reflect the current 
needs of your story and the Company’s actions. In Middle-
earth, chance is not always random… the companions 
are more likely to meet just the person they need to meet, 
when they need to meet them than it might seem at first 
glance.
Several of the entries draw from the locations and 
Loremaster characters of Eriador Adventures. In all cases, 
this connection is highlighted in the entry. Loremasters 
playing through these adventures are encouraged to use 
these chance meetings to allow the heroes to learn more 
about the folk they have met in their adventures, but you 
may wish to reserve them until that time. After all, they 
have something left to do before the end…  
Among these samples, there are chances for the heroes 
to meet some of the Great and the Good (and the Truly 
Evil) of Eriador. In these cases, sample guidance has been 
given as to the Loremaster character’s goals and reasons 
for being on the Road. You can combine these entries with 
the information presented earlier in the guide to create 
Audiences or roleplay out a simpler meeting with these 
powerful individuals.
In certain locations amidst the ruins of Eriador, you may 
wish to incorporate the backgrounds of your heroes as 
the land itself may react to the presence of the heroes. The 
areas of Eregion and the Barrow-downs are especially 
suited to this. See Shadows in the Forest in the Mirkwood 
Campaign for more examples of using Backgrounds in 
Journey Events.
Finally, there are some creatures and plants in Eriador 
that are unfamiliar to heroes from Wilderland. While 
most of these are offspring from the once tame versions 
that the Men of Westernesse domesticated, some things 
like the herb kindler’s lace are revered by the High Elves 
and are rarely found elsewhere.
New Herb: Kindler’s Lace
This plant, many-stemmed with small white flowers 
and broad leaves, is prized by the Elves of Eriador and 
grows only in cooler places where it may often drink 
deeply. When collected, the leaves of the plant can be 
brewed in boiling water. The resulting drink is said 
to clear the mind and reinvigorate the limbs. If you 
drink this tea during a short rest you can reduce your 
Exhaustion level by 1, but you must take a long rest 
before you can benefit from this herb again.
When a Hunter finds this plant, they often can collect 
enough leaves for 1d4+2 uses.
A Barren and Pathless Country

--- PAGE 123 ---
A Chance Encounter
The Company meets a fellow traveller or group of travellers. 
The Scout must make a Dexterity (Stealth) check to avoid 
them, or any hero may make a Charisma (Persuasion) check 
to interact with them. If the interaction is successful, the first 
roll of the next event is made with Advantage. Failure results 
in Disadvantage.
Anar the Dwarf
Anar is from the Blue Mountains and often accompanies 
caravans from those distant lands to the High Pass. He is in 
the Coldfells looking for the exit of the legendary Long Delve 
(see page 27 of the Rhovanion Region Guide). Anar and his 
brother Vinar (and Vinar’s child Ginar) appear in Eriador 
Adventures but after those events they will yet again set out on 
their journeys.
Cyrnan the Thief
Cruel and gruff Cyrnan is an Outlaw Chief (page 74 of the 
Loremaster’s Guide) and can often be found leading Thugs 
and other Outlaws. If the Company has met Cyrnan during the 
course of the Eriador Adventures, he may harbour a grudge 
against the heroes. But if he is met by a well-armed company, 
he is more likely to exercise caution when dealing with them. 
Cyrnan’s presence in the North Downs can either presage his 
involvement with the Enemy, or could be a result of the heroes’ 
actions during an adventure.
The Dead of Eriador
In the lands of the Coldfells or Ettenmoor, there is little chance 
that the heroes will come across living people. More likely 
this Journey Event indicates that the Company has stumbled 
across some sign of the dead. It’s possible that they died long 
ago or perhaps they are recent victims of the dangers in this 
land. But this close to the evil of Carn Dûm the dead do not 
always remain still and silent… 
The East Road
The Road cuts through these lands and it is on the Road that 
the Company is most likely to meet other travellers. These are 
often Dwarves travelling to or from the Blue Mountains in the 
west, but could be a wandering company of Elves exploring the 
lands of Eriador. If Bard still rules in Dale, then it could be any 
manner of folk who are coming from or going to Wilderland, 
looking for new opportunities in the rebuilt kingdoms.
If the Company has met folk well away from the Road, then it’s 
likely that they are trying to find their way to it, after perhaps 
an ill-advised expedition to investigate one of the many ruins 
in the area. But not every lost traveller is as they appear… such 
a story might the opening of a cunning trap or a cover story 
told to explain things away to simple folk.
Folulf and Arnulf
These two brothers are Woodmen from Wilderland and 
have only recently crossed the Misty Mountains looking for 
adventures. They are idealistic, and Folulf is superstitious and 
is quick to speak of ghosts and other spirits. They are likely to 
be found on the Road, in the Weather Hills or near Bree and are 
chasing whatever rumour they have most recently heard. If the 
heroes have had met them before (during Eriador Adventures), 
their reaction will be coloured by that interaction.
Hidden Folk
The heroes might meet the Dúnedain, though the heroes may 
not know it unless a High Elf or Ranger is with the Company. 
In the lands of the Angle and elsewhere there are many small 
refuges hidden amidst the hills and copses of trees and many 
tasks that need doing. Farmer-folk tending sheltered fields, 
others washing clothes or fishing for bream in the streams, 
children at play — all may be the secret defenders of Eriador 
in common guise.
Memories and Sorrow
There are few travellers in this land, but the Company 
might chance across an Elf walking in a memory-dream, 
remembering the lost land of Hollin. Or they might meet a 
small group of Dwarves, who have taken a pilgrimage to see 
the three mountains of Khazad-dûm: Barazinbar, Zirakzigil 
and Bundushathûr in waking life, or who are on the way to 
another place of their people. Whomever they meet, they 
will have their own reasons for being in this land and are 
unlikely to share them with the Company. Indeed, they will 
likely be suspicious of the Company, for they will expect that 
the companions hunt for treasure and not lost glories.
Seeking Rivendell
If the companions are coming from Imladris, they may chance 
upon a group of travellers looking for that fabled place. But 
they may not be able to find it… most trading caravans, 
itinerant dwarves and sell-swords will be turned away by the 
subtle magics of Lord Elrond. Do the Player-heroes reveal a 
secret that has been entrusted to them? If they do, what do the 
guardians of Rivendell think of that decision? Alternatively, if 
the heroes are away from the road then they may come across 
wandering companies of Elves who are ranging far away from 
Imladris. Such folk will be friendly enough, but they have their 
own purposes and rarely will invite strangers to join them.
Journey Event Table Entry 1 (or less)
123

--- PAGE 124 ---
Thark, Chieftain of Angmar
Among the Hill-men of Angmar is Thark, their chieftain. Broad 
and swarthy, his piercing eyes are the colour of night and 
his face is marred by countless scars of war and survival. 
Any wanderer who treads the many tracks and broken roads 
of Angmar coming from the south may encounter Thark and 
his faithful. Facing a well-equipped Company, Thark won’t 
be openly hostile, but will offer his service as a guide and 
scout. Should his offer be refused, then Thark will resort to 
threats, requiring the payment of a tribute. In both cases, 
Thark won’t fight directly, but will lead the Company towards 
a more favourable confrontation: the lair of a Mountain Troll, 
a den of Goblins, or an encampment of his people.
Thark is a Hill-man of Rhudaur as found on pages 77-78 but he 
gains the Big feature and Commanding Voice reaction. (See 
page 116 and 119 of the Loremaster’s Guide.) 
The Crossroads
Where paths meet, folk are likely to be found. Places like the 
meeting of the Greenway and the East Road or the crossing of 
Tharbad are places that are too well-known to remain always 
abandoned. But it is a dangerous folk that might be found 
squatting among the ruined buildings of Tharbad or keeping 
an eye out for slow-moving caravans along the East Road. 
The people that the Company meets here might be ambitious 
treasure-seekers or more dangerous Thugs or Outlaws.
124
Of Herbs and Stewed Rabbit
The Hunter has an opportunity to gather food. They must 
make a Wisdom (Survival) check. You have Advantage if 
the Company won Feasts Fit for the Kings of Ancient Times, 
or Disadvantage if you face Meagre Supplies and Poor Meals.
If successful, you either gather food (restore a level of 
Exhaustion or 1 Hit Die to each hero) or collect herbs 
(Loremaster’s choice of herbs found). If you fail then the Arrival 
roll gains a -1 penalty.
The Angle
A Hunter will find that they have an easy time finding a meal 
in this land. However, care is needed: often that fatted pig or 
patch of barley or sorrel belongs to a farmer and is not free for 
the taking. But there are still many empty patches of land and 
they teem with rabbits, hares, wild pigs and ancient crop-fields 
now growing wild as well.
Athelas, kindler’s lace and kingcups can all be found in the 
Angle.
Angmar
There is no hunting and no herbs to be found in the icy and 
deserted lands of Angmar.
Barrow-downs
A Hunter may come across a freshly dead deer, goat, or sheep 
but will have to fight off carrion birds to claim the prize. Even 
so, there’s every chance that the meat will prove to be spoiled… 
make another Wisdom (Survival) check with Disadvantage 
and only if it succeeds is the carcass fit to be eaten.
It is said that shadow-thorn grows within the barrows, though 
one must be very careful not to confuse it with its more deadly 
cousins… again make another Wisdom (Survival) check 
with Disadvantage. If the check fails then the Hunter realises 
that the lichen they’ve found is poisonous to consume (so-
called heroes who make use of the poison will commit a 
Misdeed and accrue Shadow points).
Coldfells
The Hunter might have found the nest of a partridge or the 
hiding place of a brown hare. The Hoarwell and its feeder 
streams contain pike and perch, along with many smaller fish, 
in great abundance.
It is possible to find reedmace along the Hoarwell, and 
hagweed and water-lilies in the slowest parts of the river. 
Close to the Misty Mountains, a traveller might find kingcups, 
though they are sparse.
Eregion
It is likely that the Hunter has stumbled across a small covey 
of red grouse and quick action will see roasted fowl on the 
menu tonight. The fields of Eregion also hide many rabbit 
burrows and small streams that have bream, graylings and 
minnows.
This region is too far to the east to make finding Kingsfoil likely, 
and the quick-running waters of the rivers do not support 
hagweed. But reedmace can be found along their banks, and 
kingcups can be found closer to the Misty Mountains. A lucky 
traveller might discover water-lilies in a wide bend of one of 
the rivers.
Journey Event Table Entry 2

--- PAGE 125 ---
Ettenmoors
It is rare for a Hunter to find any creature larger than a vole in 
these lands, but a quick and quiet one might be lucky enough 
to stumble across a brown hare. But there are other sources of 
food… barley still grows in forgotten patches here, along with 
nettles and chickweed near the mountains and leafy plantains 
that grow in the bogs.
Near the bogs one can find hagweed, reedmace and water-
lillies. It is said that shadow-thorn grows at the entrance to 
Golfimbul’s Gully but few travellers are foolish enough to go 
looking for it.
Lone-lands
The Lone-lands are home for hares and rabbits, pheasants and 
grouse. There are many streams where entire generations of 
fish have lived without ever seeing the nets or barbs of fisher-
folk. Sometimes the Hunter might stumble across a wild goat or 
a sheep, but those are rare — it’s more likely that the Company 
will hear the howl of a wolf instead.
Reedmace, kindler’s lace and kingcups can be found here. It 
is rare, but sometimes athelas can be found where the Men of 
Westernesse once travelled.
Mount Gram
The slopes of the mountain are home to many animals, who 
use the steep heights to avoid becoming the prey of trolls and 
worse things that haunt the lands around the mountains. The 
Hunter has probably caught sight of a mountain hare or a 
couple of red squirrels — good eating if you can manage to not 
fall off the side of the mountain during the pursuit.
Kingcups and kindler’s lace can be found on the mountain-
sides and shadow-thorn sometimes can be found in dark 
crevices at the base of Mount Gram.
North Downs
One might easily find fat rabbits or a wary sheep to hunt, and 
the thickets will hide hedgehogs or perhaps even a badger. 
Sheep sorrel can be found everywhere in the downs, but 
common sorrel (much tastier) can be found near where the 
Men of the North once kept farmsteads.
A keen-eyed traveller will find Kingsfoil here, along with 
kindler’s lace and kingcups in season.
South Downs and Weather Hills
There are rabbits to be found in hidden burrows in the downs 
and tench can be found by a patient fisher in the marsh-lands. 
Red grouse also call this land home, though they are easily 
startled.
Athelas can be found here, by those who know where to look. 
Hagweed and Reedmace can be found in the Midgewater 
Marshes.
Tharbad
The area around Tharbad is a joy to a Hunter: not only are 
there the many waterfowl and fish to catch, but the great 
hares of Tharbad also are clever and worthy prey. Of course, it 
always seems that you are being watched, and many a hunter 
with bow or spear in hand has turned at some small noise to 
be greeted with the rushing sound of black wings launching 
the Crebain back into the sky and out of reach.
Hagweed, reedmace and water-lillies are all found in the 
fens around Tharbad. It is possible that a traveller might find 
athelas along the old road, as once the Dúnedain travelled it 
in great numbers. 
Trollshaws
The Hunter may have found a badger or a hedgehog, or, 
perhaps, some hedgehog mushrooms (which are considerably 
easier to prepare than their namesake). Rabbits are less likely, 
as the foxes here are clever hunters.
You might find athelas here, as the Dúnedain travel these 
lands. Shadow-thorn can be found in the darkest corners of 
the woods and there is a rumour that there is a pond full of 
hagweed hidden among the trees.
125

--- PAGE 126 ---
126
An Obstacle
Something blocks the path ahead. The Guide must make a 
Wisdom (Survival) check and each other companion must 
make either Wisdom (Survival) or Strength (Athletics). If the 
Company has horses or ponies, one hero must make a Wisdom 
(Animal Handling) check. All checks have Advantage if they 
are on Paths both Swift and True, or Disadvantage if they face 
The Wearisome Toil of Many Leagues. If all are successful, the 
Arrival roll gains +1. If half or more are successful, there is no 
penalty.  If more than half failed then each hero gains a level 
of Exhaustion. If all fail add a -1 penalty to the Arrival roll to 
the Exhaustion.
The Ascent
If the companions have taken a chance to climb Mount 
Gram or one of the Misty Mountains, they will face a deadly 
challenge. Many obstacles (boulders blocking the path, 
a sudden stop to the trail that requires a vertical ascent to 
continue, a landslip that narrowly misses the companions) 
are likely to be the work of Orcs and Goblins. If they are 
climbing Mount Gram, the clever magpies of the peak will 
wait for moments like this to do their thievery — a cruel 
Loremaster might force a hero to make their Perception check 
at Disadvantage as the magpies wait until the companion is 
distracted and then swoop in for the steal. (See page 49 for 
more information on The Magpies of Mount Gram)
Dangerous Crossings
If the Company has dared to attempt the crossing at Tharbad 
or is trying to ford a river like the Hoarwell then it is likely they 
will be challenged… the waters may be extra high, affording 
little chance to see what the next safe place to step will be, or 
they may have receded and the companions are taking chances 
and trying to wend their way from one high spot in the river to 
the next. In places where small streams cut across the path, 
there might be deep mud on both banks. Or what used to be a 
basement of a farmhouse has collapsed in the waterlogged soil 
and a sinkhole now blocks the Company’s way.
Deep Places
The companions have come across a crevasse too wide to jump 
across (or perhaps their horses and ponies refuse to do so) and 
must spend time and effort making a bridge. Or perhaps they 
have found a steep drop, and the trail is littered with stones 
and small rocks. Then, as the heroes carefully descend, they 
realise that a cairn that once occupied the height has been 
broken open, and they now walk amidst the bones of the dead. 
Fog on the Downs
A thick fog lies on the land and it seems almost as if the mists 
respond to some evil will as the companions struggle to 
maintain their bearings. Strange sounds confuse them and 
each hero must make a Survival check (Athletics checks are 
not allowed for this event). Those that fail are lost in the fog. 
A full day is spent to reunite the Company and those who lost 
their way are made Miserable instead of gaining Exhaustion. If 
the Animal Handling check is failed, then a beast of burden 
has been lost in the fog. Another day may be spent to recover 
the creature, and the heroes may find other hunters tracing the 
animal as well.
Green Pleasant Places
The Company has wandered into a field of bright flowers and 
soft grasses, only to discover too late that it is a peat bog. They 
must either carefully pick their way across it, or turn aside and 
try to avoid the moorland. What looks to be safe, solid ground 
will prove to be a sucking morass that will easily swallow an 
armoured adventurer up to his waist or higher!
Lost Paths
Traversing the winding mounds of Eriador is no easy task, 
and even the most experienced of guides sometimes leads the 
Company along a blind path. The companions seem unable 
to find a straight way out of the hills. They stumble along, often 
retracing their steps and doubling back on themselves. For each 
failed check, add one day to the total time taken in the Journey.
Neekerbreekers
The companions find themselves in the Midgewater Marshes 
or some lesser bog. The maddening stings of the smallest 
insects are a nuisance, but the cricket-like creatures that cling 
to the reeds of the swamp by the thousands are a true blight. By 
night their endless squeaks of “neek-breek” and “breek-neek” 
fill the air and make rest uneasy. The companions must make 
their checks at Disadvantage but there is no need for an Animal 
Handling check, if if the Company has ponies or horses.
No Way Forward
It is all too common for travellers on the Road to find that 
their way is blocked by fallen trees or other debris (see Berk’s 
‘Gate’ on page 40). It might even be that it is simple bad fortune 
and not troll-cunning responsible. Otherwise there are many 
sudden ravines and high ridges that must be dealt with, or 
gone around.
Old Ways
There are many narrow trails in these lands, faint remembrances 
of more populous times that only keen-eyed heroes will notice. 
Some come to bad ends, others to the favorite campsites of the 
Rangers. Many of the trails have some danger to them… stones 
slick with morning mist at the top of a steep rise, loose scree 
that one must carefully tread, or a narrow log over a quick and 
cold stream.
Journey Event Table Entry 3

--- PAGE 127 ---
In Need of Help
The Company meets someone who needs aid. If they choose 
not to assist each hero must make a Wisdom saving throw 
to avoid 1 Shadow Point. If they do help, they make three 
checks, usually from Animal Handling, Insight, Medicine, 
Nature, Persuasion, Survival or Traditions. If all checks 
are successful then all heroes gain Inspiration and +1 to the 
Arrival Roll. If two checks are successful then one hero gains 
Inspiration and +1 to the Arrival Roll. If one check is successful 
then +1 to Arrival Roll. If all rolls fail then a -1 modifier is 
applied to the Arrival Roll.
Adelard Took
It is raining heavily and in the distance the company can see a 
small figure holding a tent-like contraption overhead, trying to 
ward off the rain. Once approached, he will introduce himself 
as Adelard Took, from the Shire. Very perceptive companions 
will notice a gold name-plate bearing the initials “B.B.” on his 
umbrella handle. He explains that he’s gone wandering, first to 
Bree and now he’s decided that he wanted to see Weathertop. 
He’s likely to be out of food, half-lost and a bit despondent at 
the persistent storms. But his first priority will be to see if the 
Company has a spare pipe and a bit of pipeweed… Adelard is 
a champion blower of smoke-rings.
Erchamion the Dúnadan
This grim-faced Ranger lost his hand to Dreorg the Wargllng 
(see page 80) but he still patrols the lands between the Refuge 
of the Rangers and the Ettenmoors without fail. He may need 
help with tracking the movements of a warg pack, burying 
the remains of a Hill-troll he has just slain, or escorting other 
wanderers back to safer lands. Erchamion wears a dark brown 
cloak and wields a shield and broadsword but otherwise uses 
the stats of the Ranger found on page 76 of the Loremaster’s 
Guide.
Ilmari’s Tribe
The companions may chance across Hill-men in the lone-
lands, as they are almost the only inhabitants. Ilmari is the 
ancient chieftain of one such tribe, who has recently been 
raided by Orcs. For many long years he’s taught all in his tribe 
to hate the ‘tark-men’ but he is desperate and now he thinks 
peace with the Rangers might serve his tribe over warfare. His 
nephew Usko, set to replace Ilmari as chieftain one day, thinks 
his uncle has grown soft with age and wishes the old man was 
dead. But for now Usko simply grimaces and laughs at Uncle 
Ilmari’s sad ramblings, despite the tribe’s meagre supplies 
and poor prospects. The men are close cousins of the Hill-men 
of Rhudaur (see page 78) but as long as Ilmari remains in 
command, he will favour talking over fighting.
Ginnar the Dwarf
The Company might chance across a singular Dwarf by the 
name of Ginnar. He and his siblings braved the lands of 
eastern Eriador looking for abandoned Dwarven mansions on 
this side of the Misty Mountains. His brothers and sister fell to 
attacks by Trolls, Orcs and Wolves. Ginnar is more than half-
mad and it will be extraordinarily hard to convince (a DC 20 
Charisma (Persuasion) check) for him to abandon his quest.
Gondril of Rivendell
Gondril is a young elf of Rivendell with less than five centuries 
of experience. However, she has proven to have a talent with 
stonework and often travels Eriador to inspect ancient works 
and find new sources of material. She might be found anywhere 
from Eregion to the North Downs as she is as interested in the 
works of other folks as much as her own people. She might be 
looking for directions to a rumoured site, or simply wish for 
some assistance with preparing some smaller samples from 
large and heavy source materials. If she’s had worse luck, then 
a ruin that she was exploring might have collapsed around 
her. Gondril has a part to play in Eriador Adventures.
Larry Appledore of Combe
Larry is a bright-eyed old man who is interested in alchemy 
of fire. But he is a good-natured fellow who would rather 
delight children with sparklers, squibs and crackers than 
making larger and more dangerous devices. He is a friend 
of Gandalf the Grey Wizard, and easily shares this fact with 
anyone he meets. If the heroes have met the Company of the 
Wain in Eriador Adventures, it’s likely that the caravan is 
nearby and Larry has gotten himself lost or distracted while 
seeking supplies. Otherwise, his trouble may be more serious, 
especially depending on the consequences of that adventure.
Mad Ostley
Ostley hails from Bree, but he’s most likely to be found 
wandering the Barrow-downs, the South Downs, or possibly 
as far away as Eregion. In any case, Ostley’s secretive nature 
will make it difficult to aid him. He’s likely to protest that he’s 
not in any danger at all, even as his bedraggled appearance 
and lack of supplies says otherwise. The companions will find 
that they are at Disadvantage on the needed rolls until they 
succeed at a check. Further checks are made as normal.  
Talandil the Ranger
While the old Ranger can usually be found at Fornost Erain, he 
does occasionally range out in the North Downs and perhaps 
beyond. If he is in need of assistance, the situation is grave… 
perhaps he’s caught sign of Gishak Gashnaga and his troops 
or someone might have disturbed the evil spirits of Deadman’s 
Dike and now once more undead things must be set to rest.
Journey Event Table Entry 4
127

--- PAGE 128 ---
128
Agents of the Enemy
The Company approaches a hostile force. The Look-out must 
make a Wisdom (Perception) check to spot the enemy early. 
The Look-out has Advantage if the Company is Hidden from 
the Shadow or Disadvantage if they face The Keen Eyes of the 
Enemy. These modifiers apply to any rolls made outside of 
combat. If successful, they may either sneak away or ambush 
them (in which case the enemy is Surprised). If failed, the 
enemy sets an ambush and the Player-heroes are Surprised.
Bloodstump’s Hunters (Challenge 9)
Bloodstump the Hunter has sent out his fellow Hill-trolls to hunt 
and the heroes are too close for comfort. They’re likely to be 
hunting in the Coldfells, the Trollshaws, the Ettenmoors or the 
Lone-Lands. The band consists of one Hill-troll per companion 
plus a Hill-troll Chief (pages 108-109 of the Loremaster’s 
Guide). They are a Deadly and Driven troupe.
Cold Hands, Dead Bones (Challenge 8)
If the spells of Tyrn Gorthad have not been strengthened (a 
concern addressed in Eriador Adventures) then Barrow-
wights might be encountered anywhere in Eriador, although 
the South Downs, the Weather Hills and the Barrow-downs 
themselves are most likely. Heroes might avoid the Barrow-
wights might taking notice of recently disturbed earth, 
especially around gravesites. The Barrow-wights only attack 
at night, and are first perceived by their songs. It is only then 
that they emerge out of the night and attack. There is one 
Barrow-wight for each hero.
Dreorg’s Warg-band (Challenge 10)
Dreorg ranges as far north as Angmar and as far south as The 
Angle when he is feeling brave. He rarely ventures westward of 
these lands as some half-remembered thing keeps him within 
sight of the Misty Mountains. Learn more about Dreorg’s 
Warg-band on page 80.
Ettin-field (Challenge 14)
The Company has been unlucky enough to come across an 
Ettin-field, a gathering of these Trolls that looks like nothing 
more than a field of boulders jumbled against each other 
at first glance. Caution and stealth may allow the heroes to 
escape the field without attracting the attention of the stone-
giants, but otherwise they will find themselves surrounded by 
enemies (one Ettin per companion).
Faces in the Mere (Challenge 1)
While the Bog Soldiers in the Ettenmoors are the remnants of 
the Witch-king’s rearguard, the war in the north raged across 
almost all of Eriador. And so it is possible that while the 
Company traverses a smaller swamp or marshland that they 
might come to realise that they walk among the dead. Heroes 
that remain focused on their journey might avoid disturbing 
the undead warriors, but curious companions may find that 
they face Bog Soldiers (see pages 83-84). There is one less 
Soldier than the number of companions.
Gashnaga’s Warband (Challenge 7)
Gishak Gashnaga (see page 59) will sometimes send out one 
of his lieutenants and a few trusty lads on a mission beyond 
his temporary lodgings in the North Downs. They might go 
down to the Weather-hills or into the Lone-Lands in search of 
supplies… they do not trouble Bree as Gashnaga is not yet ready 
to face the full force of the Rangers again. Gishak’s Lieutenant 
is another Great Orc, accompanied by one Orc Guard for each 
hero. See pages 97 and 104 of the Loremaster’s Guide.
Orc Raiding Party (Challenge 5)
The Orcs of Mount Gram will sometimes venture out on raids 
for plunder, food or for sport. When they do, they often strike 
westward, remembering the homeland of their hated enemy, 
so they are most likely found at Mount Gram, the Lone-Lands, 
or the Weather Hills. This warband has twice as many Orcs as 
there are heroes, and they are Battle-hardened (see page 70). 
Scouts of Carn Dûm (Challenge 3)
The heroes have had the misfortune to come across a scouting 
party sent out from Angmar. Such a meeting is most likely in 
Angmar, the Ettenmoors, the Coldfells, the Lone-Lands or the 
North Downs. There are as half as many Goblins of Carn Dûm 
as there are heroes, led by a single Hill-man of Rhudaur. The 
small force will likely flee at any serious opposition, but return 
with reinforcements.
Wraiths on the Road (Challenge 4)
It is in the dimmer hours of the day when the Company spies 
one or more travellers on the road ahead. They shuffle in the 
general direction of the heroes, humming a strange marching 
song as they go. If hailed, they introduce themselves in rasping 
voices as veterans of a forgotten war and ask for alms from 
the companions, extending gloved hands. If the heroes are 
generous, then no more comes of the encounter (although a 
companion may have restless dreams of unceasing warfare) 
but if they refuse the beggars then they reveal themselves as 
Fell Wraiths (half as many Wraiths as there are heroes in the 
Company, rounded up).
Journey Event Table Entry 5

--- PAGE 129 ---
The Wonders of Middle-earth
The Company is presented with a spectacular sight. Each 
hero must make either a Wisdom check or an Intelligence 
(Investigation) check. These checks are made with Advantage 
in Fair Weather and Disadvantage under Foul Weather.
If successful, the hero recovers one level of Exhaustion or gains 
one if they fail. If all heroes succeed, gain a +1 to the Arrival 
Roll or if all fail then the Arrival Roll gains a -1 penalty.
A Glad Morning
As the sun rises over the distant Misty Mountains, light begins 
to spill over the horizon, brightening the entire land. Birds 
sing out in greeting, and their calls seem to say ‘Day has come 
again!’ Some companions may be heartened by this early 
awakening, while others may regret being awoken so early and 
with so little rest while on the Road.
The Beasts at Home
The Company can see some sign of the creatures of this 
land… they are either too small or too distant to hunt, but 
are instead a reminder that while most of Eriador has been 
abandoned by the Free Peoples it remains home for the 
animals of this land. They have their own errands, their own 
concerns and their own adventures to attend to, and have 
little concern for the doings of those who go about on two feet 
making a great racket. 
Splendours of Nature
The Company has come across some remarkable location. It 
might be a ravine that opens up to a steep-sided valley with 
trees and a waterfall within it, or a crooked tree that provides 
just the right amount of shade for a midday break, or a 
pleasant bubbling stream that shares the companions’ path 
for a little while, or the sight of white mist in the distance, or 
silver netting in a nearby thicket as dew collects on thankfully 
small spider webs. 
Clear Skies Overhead
Overhead, the sky is a bright blue without a cloud to be seen. 
There is only a faint breeze, but the air is clean and fair-
smelling. The heroes can see further than usual, and their 
road ahead (with all of its dangers and many turnings) is 
temporarily made clear to them. Does such a vision strengthen 
their resolve or does it make the goals seem hopeless and vain?
The Turning of the Seasons
The companions come across some signifier that the season 
is changing… newly sprouted plants in Spring, bright days 
and tall grass in Summer, falling leaves and sudden chills 
for Autumn, frost and snow for Winter. Or perhaps they are 
at the fullness of a season instead; the endless sunlight of 
Midsummer’s Day or they must keep watch during the long 
hours of Yule-tide far from home.
Smell of Rain
Outside, it is raining (or snowing, or sleeting). But the Company 
is out of the weather. Perhaps they’ve found themselves shelter 
in old ruins, a dry cave, a sturdy thicket or they were able to 
set up camp before the rain came. Outside, the water comes 
down, and everything is a grey blur. Do the companions curse 
the weather and make ready to tromp through the wet? Or do 
they welcome the delay and tell tales to pass the time? 
The Day’s Ending
The sun is setting in the western sky, the red light breaking into 
many flickering beams of light as it disappears beyond the 
horizon. Then the light fades and eventually fails entirely. For 
some among the Company, it may be a reminder of the Sea 
and lands beyond. For others, it is just a herald of night and 
the darkness. A darkness that allows evil things to stir…  
Twilight at the Water
The light is fading and the Company is near to the water — 
perhaps a lake or marsh, a river or a small stream. A chorus 
of voices sings out, saying goodbye to the day and greeting 
the night. Some might be troubled by the sounds of insects 
and additional creatures, others might take comfort in the 
knowledge that while the light is failing, life continues on in the 
wild despite the oncoming night.  
The Bright Stars
The Company has set camp for the night and there is a 
multitude of stars overhead, a vastness beyond measure 
or count. The lights overhead seem unaffected by Mortal 
sentiments or any earthly concerns at all. Some may see such 
a sky and feel that they are but a tiny thing, unknown to the 
Powers that rule the world, but others may take hope from 
seeing the ordered arrangement of the stars. The companions 
can use History or Lore for their Intelligence check.
A Full Moon
There is a bright moon overhead, so bright that it might dispel 
some of the fear that the dark nights of Eriador bring. The full 
moon allows the Lookout to see farther, but they may rue the 
light. In the night, the heroes see shadows moving behind trees 
and luminous eyes watching the Company. The heroes must 
decide if they welcome the moon or wish for it to wane and 
leave them again in darkness. 
Journey Event Table Entry 6
129

--- PAGE 130 ---
130
A Hunt
The Hunter has a particularly excellent chance to catch a good 
meal. The Hunter must make a Wisdom (Survival) check. 
These checks are made with Advantage with Feasts Fit for the 
Kings of Ancient Times, and Disadvantage if the Company has 
Meagre Supplies and Poor Meals. If successful by 5 or more, 
all heroes recover a level of Exhaustion and the Company 
gains +1 to the Arrival Roll. Other successes recover a level 
of Exhaustion only. If the check fails then the Company gains 
a level of Exhaustion. If the Hunter fails by 5 or more add a -1 
penalty to the Arrival Roll.
The Bear of the Downs
There are rumours that a bear lives somewhere in the downs 
of Eriador, most often these legends place the creature in the 
North Downs, but sometimes in the South Downs, the Weather 
Hills or, rarely, the edges of the Barrow-downs. Such a creature 
is dangerous to pursue; the Hunter has Disadvantage on the 
check but any success counts as if you have succeeded by 5 or 
more.
Black Grouse
It is said that a kind of grouse hides in the Lone-Lands, Angmar 
and the Ettenmoors, bigger and darker than any other. 
Sometimes it even ventures into more southerly lands, and it 
is a prized catch. Listen for the song of a dove, but louder and 
less learned… when the bird takes flight you will see a black 
body, edged with white and a forked tail. The plumage is worth 
keeping as well, as it might earn the Hunter a penny or two if it 
is in good condition.
Boar
Vast swaths of Eriador were once farmland and small sounders 
of wild boar remain hidden in the wild places. Though they 
are often hunted by the Wargs of the land, the Hunter may 
be lucky enough to chance across some spore of the pigs and 
track them to their shelter. Even a single animal can sustain the 
Company for some time, as long the pig-roast does not bring 
other uninvited guests.
Elk
Solitary and elusive, elk are but a rumour to the folk of the 
Shire and Bree. But those Rangers whose paths cause them 
to venture far into the Lone-Lands tell tales of a giant deer, as 
large as a horse, with huge antlers that reach out like two great 
hands with many fingers. If the Hunter were to come across 
one of these fabulous beasts, the tale would be worth telling, 
even if ends in woe.
The Fishing Spot
It is said that for every stream, every river, every pond and 
lake and marsh, there is one perfect place, where a fisher 
may spend hours; where every casting of a spear or a line 
or dragging of a net produces a fine catch. The Hunter may 
have been lucky enough to find such a place, or at least it may 
seem to them that they have found it. It will be up to the dice 
to decide if the spot is worth the name, or simply another high 
hope that fades away.
Garden in the Wilderness
The Hunter has lucked into discovering a field of edible plants. 
It might be the long-lost descendants of a farm now lost to 
memory, or it might be a secret place of the Dúnedain or one 
of the Elvish Wandering Companies. No matter who planted 
it, there is plenty enough and to spare. The heroes will eat well 
tonight, as long as they are lucky enough to find something 
that is ripe.
Goat Chase
You have been lucky enough to spy a goat, which would make 
a fine meal for the Company. However, such beasts are clever 
and nimble and will give you a merry chase before you’re 
able to catch them. Goats can be found almost anywhere in 
Eriador, though they are often found around Mount Gram, the 
Misty Mountains, the Weather Hills and the Barrow-downs. 
It’s possible that such goats might have once belonged to a 
farmer of Bree-land or even stranger folk.
Hart of the Wild
There are still herds of deer in Eriador despite the packs of Wild 
Wolves that range the lands. But a mighty buck in his prime is a 
wily creature that is not easily caught. You have caught wind of 
this magnificent prize and now must choose how desperately 
to pursue it. You may take on a level of Exhaustion before you 
make the check. If you do so, any success counts as if you had 
made the check by 5 or more.
Sheep in the Heights
In the reaches of the North and especially amidst the hills of 
the mountains live many flocks of wild sheep. They are a hardy 
kind, well-used to the cold weather and dangerous heights of 
these lands. But a patient Hunter can get close enough to bring 
one down, hopefully in a place where she can recover the 
carcass without further danger.
Wild Kine
It is rumoured that in the Lone-lands there are herds of cattle, 
driven feral by the loss of their masters. They are smaller 
and bolder than domesticated beasts but less wily than other 
creatures of the wild places. If you have been lucky enough to 
come across one, it is certain that the Company will eat well, if 
you can manage the heavy beast’s body. If you only take cuts of 
meat, it’s likely that nothing else will remain when you revisit 
the spot, as there are many carrion eaters in Eriador.
Journey Event Table Entry 7

--- PAGE 131 ---
A Fine Spot for a Camp
The Scout has spotted a location that make make an excellent 
campsite. Make an Intelligence (Investigation) check. If 
the check succeeds by 5 or more then the Company recovers 
a level of Exhaustion and gains +1 to the Arrival Roll. On a 
basic success the Company recovers a level of Exhaustion. On 
a failure the Company gains a level of Exhaustion. On a failure 
of 5 or more the Company is in danger and might face enemies. 
They also gain Exhaustion and a -1 penalty to the Arrival Roll. 
Amon Palan
Near to the East Road in the Angle, there is a hill that stands 
above the others. The Rangers often camp here, to keep watch 
over the Road. The top of the hill is clear of brush, but one can 
easily find wood for a fire nearby and a number of useful and 
edible plants grow amidst the grasses at the base of the hill. 
The Dúnedain do not begrudge others using ‘their’ campsite, 
but will not approach the Company unless a Ranger or High Elf 
is already among them. 
Bridge of Mitheithel
When travellers come to the River Hoarwell, they find 
themselves obliged to make for the Last Bridge, for even the 
Rangers do not know of other safe crossings. The bridge lies 
at the bottom of the steep valley carved by the river and is a 
mighty construction with three arches through which the river 
swirls and gurgles. It is known that sometimes Lord Elrond 
sends his folk to watch over the river crossing and folk often 
camp here. The thick forests of the valley of the Hoarwell might 
hide many dangers for a Company that is suffering ill-luck, 
although Trolls are the most common danger here, the Enemy 
might have set Orcs and Goblins to plague traders and sow 
distrust among the Free Peoples. 
Cave of the Kings
It is said that in the Lone-Lands there is a small cave tucked in 
amidst rocks that jut out at the base of a hill. If you are willing to 
brave the darkness of the entrance and descend down a sloping 
passage, you will come to a great cavern. Chance a little light, 
and you can see massive columns of white stone that seem to 
sprout from both ceiling and floor. They guard the shore of 
an underground lake where blind fish swim. Legends tell that 
some lords of the sundered kingdoms once held summer court 
here, but while the cave shows signs of occasional occupation 
there are no signs that such rumours are true. If the Company 
is in danger, then something else might live in the cold lake 
or enemies might camp outside the cave entrance, leaving the 
Company without another route to escape.
The Hill of the Elf Prince
Amidst the Barrow-downs is a singular hill that is covered 
with golden flowers that those well-travelled or well versed 
in Lore will know as mallos, the yellow bells of Lebennin far 
to the south. Long ago, a Elf-lord and his retinue, slain by 
the Enemy, were laid  to rest in this hill. Some enchantment 
of the First-born still lingers in the earth, and this place is a 
safer campsite than any other that could be found among the 
Barrows. The Scout has Disadvantage on the Investigation 
check, as the Hill of the Elf Prince is hidden and often cloaked 
in cold fog. But if the Company camps here, they will have 
no fear of attack during the night. The Hill will play a part in 
Eriador Adventures.
The Ivy Inn
Along the Greenway there are ruins of a great-house that 
are now broken down and covered in greenery. It seems to 
be a place of quiet, undisturbed by any creature. Behind 
the ruins is a well, from which you can still draw out clear 
and cold water. The Dúnedain laughingly call the place the 
Ivy Inn and camp here when they walk the North Road. It 
is rumoured that once the Ivy Inn was a true travellers’ inn 
and that a Wizard laid a blessing on it that still persists. The 
Scout automatically has Advantage on their check here, and 
the Company is safe from enemies (though they still suffer the 
other penalties on a failure).
The Redhorn Pass
Companions approaching the Caradhras know that they 
might rouse the wrath of the mountain. If they are fortunate, 
they will only encounter chill winds and falling rocks. Those 
who seek shelter during the climb may face other dangers… 
The Scout has Disadvantage on the Investigation check as the 
companion is distracted by eerie noises. If they fail the check 
they fall Unconscious and cannot be revived for the length of 
the storm (it lasts an entire night) and another hero must find 
shelter from the worsening weather. When the companion 
finally wakes up, they will relate a strange story about the 
storm being born of the battle that was raging between 
southerly winds against the north wind above the clouds.
Weathertop
In the western flank of Amon Sûl is a sheltered hollow with a 
bowl-shaped dell at its bottom. The dell has grassy sides and 
near to it is a spring of clear water emerges from the hillside. 
Near to the hill are fallen rocks which hide a cache for the 
Rangers of the North: firewood and other supplies, sometimes 
accompanied by hidden markings that the Dúnedain use to 
pass secret knowledge along. The dell can be reached by 
tracing the ancient hidden path that the Men of the West made 
long ago. Unless the Scout is a Dúnadan, the Investigation 
check to find the dell is made with Disadvantage.
Journey Event Table Entry 8
131

--- PAGE 132 ---
132
Lingering Memory of Times Long Past
The Company discovers a relic of past ages. Each companion 
must make a Wisdom check. If successful, the hero gains 
Inspiration. If you succeed by 5 or more, you may remove a 
level of Exhaustion. If the hero fails, you must make a DC 15 
Wisdom saving throw or gain 2 points of Shadow. If you fail 
the initial check by 5 or more, you must make the saving throw 
and gain a level of Exhaustion. If at least half the Company 
succeed at the check, add +1 to the Arrival Roll. Otherwise 
apply a -1 modifier instead. 
Children of Forgotten Kings
While Eriador is filled with ruins from lost Arnor and the 
successor kingdoms, it has been a thousand years since a king 
sat in Fornost Erain. The Company has found something that 
brings the long wait of the Dúnedain into focus. Perhaps it 
is some record from the time of Aranarth, relating how they 
are only temporarily setting aside their ambitions or a relic 
of the long days of waiting that the Rangers still endure. The 
Dúnedain are sometimes gifted with foresight and even the 
shards of their earthenware or other ancient artefacts might 
hint at days to come, predictions that eerily echo the present 
events that the Company now faces.
Fair Memories of Ancient Days
The Company has discovered an artefact that signifies that 
the North has not always known war and strife. Long ago, 
generations of Men were born, grew to old age and died, 
content in life and free from fear of the Witch-king or other 
great evils. This relic is a beautiful creation, made by those 
fearless folk to celebrate life and hope. It might be a brooch, 
necklace, ring, belt buckle, hairpin or other piece of jewelry or 
adornment. Perhaps this discovery will fill the Company with 
ambition to help restore peace to the North, or convince them 
that such efforts are now futile. 
Green Walls and White Walls
It is easy to pass by the many ruins of Eriador and give little 
thought to their builders or what the mighty stoneworks of 
old must have looked like when they were newly made. But 
this place is different, and it carries you into what would seem 
almost a waking dream… for a moment you can see the new 
stones being laid, hear the shouts of the workers, smell the 
limestone mortar… great were the ambitions of those who 
made these works and now all is fallen into ruin. Will you 
weep for the loss, or will you celebrate that which once was 
even if it is no more?
Red Metal of New and Greedy Swords
The Company has found a token of the many wars fought in 
the North across the Ages of the world. It might be that they 
have stumbled across a singular barrow raised to honour a 
hero or lord, the gravesite of many warriors or an ancient 
battlefield where one can still find rusted and broken blades. 
They might be sheltering in ruins, only to discover the broken 
forge of a master weaponsmith or a storehouse of spears and 
shields now useless with great age. Although many battles of 
the North ended in defeat or victory that proved fruitless, the 
warriors of old did have courage enough to stand against the 
Shadow and the companions might take heart from that.
Shadows out of Dark Places
You have found some artefact of Carn Dûm, left behind when 
the Witch-king’s forces retreated from the onslaught of Gondor 
and the High Elves. While the power of the Enemy no longer 
resides in the item, it is still an uncomfortable thing to behold 
and dangerous to keep, if for no other reason that others might 
think you allied with the Shadow. It is likely that the item is 
graven with runes or has markings or illustrations upon it. 
These are likely to be crude expressions of hatred, but the most 
dangerous will have writings in the Black Speech, which even 
the Wise will fear to utter aloud.
Victory and Defeat
When Eärendur died and Arnor fell with him, Men turned 
against each other, doing the Enemy’s work for him. While 
Amlaith’s wisdom prevented bloodshed for a while, eventually 
the successor kingdoms fought each other. Finding something 
from this time, during the time of the Northern Wars, is a 
reminder of dark days. Any Dúnedain must make the Wisdom 
check at Disadvantage and does not receive Inspiration from 
such a find no matter what result occurs.
When the World was Wider
After the breaking of Thangorodrim and the sinking of 
Beleriand, not all of the Edain departed for Westernesse. Some 
took what they could salvage of the Elder Days and went to 
live in Eriador. There, some Men had lived from the beginning 
of the world, for who else made the Great Barrows? The 
Company has found some signifier of the Elder Days, perhaps 
an heirloom handed down a hundred generations only to be 
lost when the Witch-king’s armies came. Made of stone, metal 
or bone, it bears runes that identify its ancient origin and 
perhaps give clues as to days that are now only remembered in 
the sanctuaries of the Elves.
Journey Event Table Entry 9

--- PAGE 133 ---
A Place Touched by the Shadow
The essence of something dark and terrible lingers here. The 
Scout must make an Intelligence (Investigation) check to 
avoid the area. If successful, the Company gains a +1 to their 
Arrival Roll. If the Scout succeeds by 5 or more, each hero 
gains Inspiration and may remove 1 temporary Shadow point. 
If the Scout fails, each hero must make a DC 15 Wisdom 
saving throw against Corruption or gain 1 point of Shadow. 
If the Scout fails by 5 or more, some dark thing still lurks here, 
ancient and evil… 
Ancient home, long abandoned
The Company has stumbled across the remains of a farmhouse 
or other structure that a family once called home. Many years 
have passed, but you can still walk amidst the stones or rotting 
timbers and get a sense of the place where once people gathered 
together and shut out the cold and the fear with the warmth of 
love and pride. But they failed, and gravesites near the home 
or other signs of the Enemy’s victory may make you feel that no 
place is safe from the shadow. If an enemy is present, it is likely 
to be a spectre of the family. Such folk relied on the Dúnedain 
and High Elves for protection and will blame them endlessly 
and attack them first.
Dangerous Enchantment
Between the sorceries of the Witch-king and the mighty workings 
of the High Elves, the bleak lands sometimes hide places of 
singular power. The Company has stumbled across one such 
thing… perhaps a spring that carries carries an enchantment 
of confusion, a standing stone that lures those who rest 
beneath it into a dreamless and unguarded sleep or a ring of 
stones where the companions finds themselves compelled to 
speak in rhyme or find that all of their actions become a dance 
that seems hard to end. If something evil lingers, then it could 
be a clever Troll or Orc using an existing place for its benefit, or 
a group of Fell Wraiths who have worked some ancient magic 
to create the enchanted spot originally.
Gravesite in the Wild
The Company has found a pleasant space to camp: flat, with 
good shade but no looming branches overhead, a small stream 
bubbling nearby, the weather is pleasant and temperate. The 
entire place seems to be peaceful. Long ago, some great captain 
of the armies that fought against the Witch-king fell in a battle 
near this place. In wartime, returning the dead home was not 
always possible, and the soldier was laid to rest where the 
Company now camps. But the great and the good of Eriador 
attract the attention of the evil spirits that haunt the land, and 
now this is a place where the Shadow grows strong when the 
sun fails and night comes. Any sort of undead might plague the 
Company if they find an enemy here.
Greed and Strife
It is said that in the Elder Days the Great Enemy spent some 
measure of his power cursing the land itself, so that all who 
lived within the circles of the world will know grief and pain. In 
this place, that evil is strong and the companions will find that 
their words and deeds are taken astray. Loremaster characters 
may argue with or turn against the Company, and the players 
might be asked to narrate their own disagreements with each 
other, such that the characters may argue without the players 
doing the same. If an enemy is present, it will be something 
that will trouble the heroes: Crebain that swoop in and then 
disappear, or fast-moving Goblins that take advantage of the 
darkness to hide from the Company’s retribution.
Monster’s Dwelling
You have found some place that seems a strong and safe place 
to make camp. But as you explore the location, you realise that 
you are not the first to find this stronghold, nor the first to make 
camp here… this was the lair of some evil creature in the past. 
But they are not at home, and there may even be signs that the 
creature is dead or has moved on. In Troll-country, the Company 
might stumble across unfortunates who have been turned to 
stone by the light of the Sun. Most Trolls in such conditions are 
vanquished, but it might be that it is a newly formed Ettin that 
still retains much of its original appearance. If the Scout fails by 
5 or more, they have misread the signs and the dwelling has not 
been abandoned. The monster returns and finds it has visitors… 
Place of Oathbreaking
The Company has come to a crossroads, a place where the 
forgotten roads of old Arnor once met. Long ago in this place, 
a group of Men swore allegiance to the King of the North or 
his successors. But when the armies of the Witch-king came, 
they quailed and fled instead. Now the crossroads is a place 
of ill ease, where the companions may find the promises that 
bind them together restraining and imbalanced. If an enemy 
approaches, then they will be related to the oathbreakers: 
perhaps Walking Dead that wear their bodies, or perhaps 
Ghosts of the dead themselves.
Watching Guardian
There are secret places where once, long ago, the Witch-king 
and his servants would prepare for battle or recover their 
strength. These places are often protected by dread sorceries; 
evil spirits bound into statues and forced to serve their masters 
as eternal guardians and lookouts. As you prepare to make 
camp in some ruins, the feeling that you are being watched will 
grow, and you soon become aware of an evil presence lurking. 
It may remain as quiet unease, or an active guardian might 
let loose a high shrill cry to alert its allies. Such guardians are 
servants of the most dread servants of the Shadow: Great Orcs, 
Wights, Wraiths, Hounds of Sauron or Secret Shadows.
Journey Event Table Entry 10
133

--- PAGE 134 ---
134
The Enemy is Abroad
Evil Men, Orcs, Goblins or other servants of the Enemy are 
moving through the area. If the Company is subject to The 
Keen Eyes of the Enemy, the confrontation is unavoidable, if 
the Look-out makes a Wisdom (Perception) check, the enemy 
is Surprised on the first round of combat. If the Company is 
Hidden from the Shadow, the Look-out can use Perception 
or Stealth to avoid the enemy. If the check fails, the enemy is 
still Surprised on the first round of combat. If neither applies, 
then each member of the Company must make a Dexterity 
(Stealth) check. If the Company has horses or ponies then one 
companion must make a Wisdom (Animal Handling) check 
as well. If any of these rolls fails, they have spotted and battle 
is engaged with no advantage to either side.
Berk
Berk does not always tend his gate and sometimes when 
hunger drives him he ranges far from his Troll-hole in search of 
fresh meat. Without a hiding place to retreat to, he will exhibit 
Great Might in his fear and anger, and serves as a Challenge 
6 encounter.
Bloodstump
Sometimes Bloodstump will lead his hunter-trolls himself. This 
band consists of Bloodstump and one Hill-troll per companion 
(page 108 of the Loremaster’s Guide). They gain Battle-
hardened and Formidable as Bloodstump outfits them with 
gear taken from the broken bodies of slain Rangers. The troupe 
counts as Challenge 11 in total.
Burzash
Burzash, the Warlord of the Grey Waste, will be encountered 
leading a mixed force as seen on page 51. There are twice as 
many Goblins of Carn Dûm as there are heroes, an equal 
number of Hillmen of Rhudaur along with Burzash and his two 
Mountain Troll bodyguards. They are both Bloodthirsty and 
a Vengeful Band, and have a total ranking at Challenge 15.
Gishak Gashnaga
When Gishak Gashnaga (see page 59) takes his own troops 
into the field, they count as Driven as they fear their leader 
more than the weapon of any of the Free Peoples. Gishak is a 
Great Orc, accompanied by one Orc Guard for each hero. See 
pages 97 and 104 of the Loremaster’s Guide. The troupe has a 
Challenge 8 rating.
Gorzim
The mighty Gorzim is a Hill-troll Chief (see page 107 of the 
Loremaster’s Guide) who travels the North on missions for his 
master (the secrets of his errands and his lord are discovered 
in Eriador Adventures). He will often be accompanied by Orc 
Soldiers, Thugs or Outlaws, which he will readily abandon to 
save himself. These unfortunates will know little of Gorzim’s 
true goals in Eriador. The minimum for this encounter is 
Challenge 9 with twice as many Orc Soldiers or Thugs as 
there are heroes.
Radgul
Few things other than rumours of Hobbits nearby could 
cause Radgul to stick his neck out of his stronghold of Mount 
Gram. Unless, of course, his presence in the land is some 
clever stratagem to conquer Mount Gundabad or weaken its 
defenders. The warband has as many Orcs of Mount Gram 
as there are companions, along with their leader, and ranks 
as Challenge 5. They are likely to flee at the first serious 
resistance, leaving behind tokens of Gorgol, son of Bolg (see 
page 16 of Rhovanion Region Guide and page 48) in hopes that 
the heroes will misidentify their attackers.
The Warg of the Redhorn Gate
The wind howls and it howls with wolf-voices. The Wargs 
are hunting in the West tonight, lead by the great Warg of 
the Redhorn Gate (see page 36 for more information on this 
Hound of Sauron). There are as many Wild Wolves as there 
are heroes accompanying their leader, and the troupe counts 
as being Trained in their Bite attacks. The wolfpack is a 
Challenge 6 rating. 
The Wight-king
It is said that on moonless nights, the Wight-king leads his 
followers out of his grand barrow and they wander the land 
looking for new subjects. Though he must return before the 
sun comes, the dead travel fast. The Wight-king’s excursions 
are part of Eriador Adventures. The Wight-king is joined by a 
Barrow-wight for each companion and the entire encounter 
ranks as Challenge 10. 
Journey Event Table Entry 11

--- PAGE 135 ---
Many Meetings? Fly you Fools!
The companions have encountered a traveller upon the road, 
but all may not be as it at first appears. If the Company began 
the journey under Dark Signs and Evil Portents, it is a servant 
of the Enemy. If they started From Auspicious Beginnings then 
it is one of the great powers for good. Otherwise, the Look-out 
must make a Wisdom (Perception) check. 
If the Look-out succeeds by 5 or more, they recognise the 
traveller for someone of great standing and may immediately 
remove 1 Shadow point, gain +1 to their Arrival Roll and 
may seek an Audience with the traveller. On a basic success, 
the traveller’s identity is shielded from them and the meeting 
should use the rules for A Chance Encounter. Insight checks 
may reveal their true identity.
If the check fails, each hero must make a DC 15 Wisdom 
saving throw against Corruption or gain 2 Shadow points. 
They must then hide from the enemy (using the rules in The 
Enemy is Abroad) but also gain a level of Exhaustion and -1 
penalty to their Arrival Roll. If the Look-out fails by 5 or more 
then the Company is automatically spotted and they must flee. 
Each hero gains 2 Shadow points, a level of Exhaustion and a 
-1 to the Arrival Roll.
Gandalf the Grey
Ahead, the Company sees a traveller, bent with age and 
leaning on an staff. His travelling cloak is stained and coated 
with mud and dust from the Road.
The Company has come across Gandalf the Grey. But has the 
Wizard sought them out for a singular mission or is it chance 
(if chance you call it) that makes their paths meet today? For 
Gandalf, the best kind of heroes stand against the darkness, 
even when the odds are against them. He might tell them of 
enemies that would chill the blood, to see how the companions 
react to danger. 
If he is satisfied, then he might ask them to do something for 
him… if he is not a Patron of the Company, then it will be a 
simple task such as checking on other travellers or delivering 
a cryptic message to an important person. But Wizards are 
subtle and it’s likely that the Company will find themselves 
drawn into larger affairs as they complete the task.
Wizards are also quick to anger. Gandalf will quickly become 
frustrated by a Company does not recognise him or asks foolish 
questions or wants help with things that they themselves can 
accomplish. In these cases, the Wizard will quickly take his 
leave after some harsh remarks.
Glorfindel
A rider approaches. He is tall and armour gleams from 
beneath his travelling robes. The horse is a magnificent beast, 
with a white coat that shines in the sun.
Glorfindel has ridden out from Imladris and only one thing 
— the command of Lord Elrond himself — would cause the 
protector of Rivendell to leave his post. Both Elrond and 
Glorfindel are gifted with foresight and it’s likely that one of 
them has seen a vision of the future that involves the Company 
(or at least their mission or destination). Glorfindel will initially 
be cautious, the Enemy has many tricks and many servants, 
some who do not even know that they serve an evil master. But 
once trust has grown between the Elf Lord and the Company, 
he will tell them of the reason he has come, which will likely 
involve some threat to Rivendell or its people.
If the Company treats him as a stranger, he will likely leave 
them and continue to search… some visions never come to be 
and all must depend on the choices of individuals. The way is 
shut for those who do not wish to walk it.
Arwen
The Company spies a woman walking, her head covered. She 
carries a basket and seems to be on some sort of errand.
In recent days, Arwen has chosen to walk amidst the Dúnedain 
from time to time, providing aid and comfort where she can 
to a folk that have seen many trials. When the Company 
encounters her, she is likely going to or returning from a secret 
place of the Rangers. However, she will be slow to reveal this 
information to the heroes (unless they have one or more 
Dúnedain among them and have recognised her). She rarely 
travels alone, but her escort will wait hidden, to allow their 
Lady to judge for herself the merits of these travellers.
If Arwen remains unknown, then she will beg off staying long 
with the Company, saying that she has an urgent errand and 
she dares not to tarry.
Elladan and Elrohir
A group of warriors is nearby. They have drawn weapons and 
you hear them shouting to each other. There are two leaders 
with bright swords that look so similar to each other that it 
seems almost as if your eyes are bewitched.
The two sons of the Lord of Imladris often lead sorties into 
Eriador in pursuit of enemies. They have just fought off one 
such adversary and the approach of the Company (especially if 
they are not cautious) might be misunderstood. Once tensions 
Journey Event Table Entry 12 (or more)
135

--- PAGE 136 ---
136
have calmed, it’s likely that the Company will be asked to 
temporarily join the Elves. Such a mission should prove a 
short but exciting affair as the heroes can encounter some of 
the more dangerous foes of the North while still having the 
assistance of the Elves in the battle.
If the Company does not realise who they are dealing with, they 
might think the Elves are one of the Wandering Companies 
or dangerous renegades. Similarly, the Elves might judge the 
heroes to be common thugs and sellswords and warn them off 
of trying to seek for the fabled Rivendell.
Tom Bombadil
Close to the Barrow-downs, the Company might spy a short, 
bearded man wearing bright blue clothes and oversized boots. 
He seems drunk or perhaps just merry and not at all steady 
on his feet.
The companions have chanced across Tom Bombadil as he 
walks the borders of his land. He will greet them with a nod 
and a wink and a song on his lips. He is irreverent and answers 
most questions in a roundabout way. 
If asked who he is, he might answer Forn (if a Dwarf asks) or 
Orald (if someone from Rhovanion is asking) or Iarwain (if an 
Elf is the questioner). But if all ask, he will give each answer in 
turn and not be concerned with the apparent contradiction. If 
they ask where he’s going, it will be ‘this way and that’. But if 
the Company is in true need, he will set them on the Road to 
Bree or otherwise make them safe.
If the companions don’t recognise Tom (or do not take him 
seriously) then he will soon depart, singing a song about 
swans that have too high an opinion of themselves and river 
wrens that are too talkative.
The Lord of the Ringwraiths
A stooped figure in dark travelling clothes is ahead. He turns 
back and forth as if searching for something. He turns towards 
you as you approach.
If the heroes identify the traveller then they will likely hide from 
the Wraith. But this is no Fell Wraith and it’s likely that the 
heroes will find themselves outmatched (and the Lord of the 
Nazgûl rarely travels alone, he will likely be escorted by Orcs 
of Mordor or worse).
If the heroes do not identify the traveller and think that they 
speak with a shy stranger, then the Witch-king is amused 
and will speak to the heroes. He might ask if they have been 
to Imladris or where other strong defenders of the land might 
hide.
The Wight-king
It is night-time and the Company has made camp. In the 
distance, they hear singing. There is someone else out there, if 
you wish to leave the safety of the camp. The heroes might wish 
to investigate, but they take a chance to come under the effects 
of the Wight-king’s song (see page 86). If they escape that effect 
then they will recognise the Wight-king and his minions for 
what they are.
If the companions ignore the song, then the heroes will find 
disturbed earth near the camp, as if the dead dug their way out 
of their graves and walked together during the night.
Other Enemy Captains
If the companions have rolled poorly, they might encounter 
any of the other captains listed on page 133 for the entry for 
The Enemy is Abroad. But there is no confusing a Troll or Great 
Orc for a fellow traveller. The Company will need to choose 
whether to flee or face their enemies head-on.

--- PAGE 137 ---
You have dwelt in Imladris since its 
founding, leaving only once in your long 
years when Gil-galad called all banners 
to him and the Last Alliance of Elves 
and Men stormed the Black Land of 
Mordor. Those dark times rarely 
leave your thoughts, even in a 
place so fair as the hidden valley 
of Rivendell. 
You will not suffer to see the world plunged 
into such darkness again. With the permission 
of Lord Elrond you have set forth upon the 
wild, to learn more of the designs of the 
Shadow and to do what’s in your strength 
to resist them, so that none of the Free Folk 
of Middle-earth will have to endure such 
terrors again.
- High elf -
of 
rivendell
Cirmacar

--- PAGE 138 ---
Strength
Dexterity
Constitution
Intelligence
Wisdom
Inspiration
Proficiency Bonus
____ Strength
____ Dexterity
____ Constitution
____ Intelligence
____ Wisdom
____ Corruption
____ Charisma
SAVING THROWS
____ Acrobatics (Dex)
____ Animal Handling (Wis)
____ Athletics (Str)
____ Deception (Cha)
____ History (Int)
____ Insight (Wis)
____ Intimidation (Cha)
____ Investigation (Int)
____ Lore (Int)
____ Medicine (Wis)
____ Nature (Int)
____ Perception (Wis)
____ Performance (Cha)
____ Persuasion (Cha)
____ Riddle (Int)
____ Shadow-lore (Int)
____ Sleight of Hand (Dex)
____ Stealth (Dex)
____ Survival (Wis)
____ Traditions (Int)
Skills
Passive Perception (wisdom)
Other proficiencies & languages
Armour Class
Initiative
Speed
Current Hit Points
Hit Point Maximum ____________________________
Hit Dice
Total _______________
Death Saves
Successes
Failures
Attacks
Name
Atk Bonus
Damage/Type
Equipment
G
S
C
Features, Traits, and Virtues
Character tRAITS
cHARACTER nAME
Standard of Living
Distinctive Quality
Speciality
Hope
Despair
cLASS & 
lEVEL
Culture
Back-
ground
Shadow
Weakness
Experience
Points
Cirmacar 
Warden
High Elf
Hunted by the 
Shadow 
Lure of Power
Prosperous
12
+1
14
+2
14
+2
10
+0
17
+3
9
-1
+2
+1
+4
+2
+0
+3
+5
+1
+2
+5
+1
-1
+0
+5
-1
+0
+0
+3
+0
+5
-1
-1
+0
+0
+2
+4
+5
+2
15
Proficiencies: The Eyes of Elves - you are 
proficient in Perception. Elf-wise - you are 
proficient in Corruption checks.The Tools of War 
- you are proficient with daggers, spears, great 
spears, short swords, long swords, great bows, light 
armour and shields. Subtlety of Craft - you are 
proficient with smith’s tools
Languages: You can speak, read and write Westron 
(the Common Tongue) and Sindarin. You use Quenya, 
the Ancient Tongue, in song and high matters of lore.
14 
(16 with Shield) 
+2
30 feet
10
10
1
	 Great Bow	
+4 	
1d8+2 piercing 
	 Dagger	
+4	
 1d4+2 piercing
 
A slate blue travelling cloak, 
travelling gear for the current season, 
a backpack or saddlebags, a belt 
dagger, boots, a white jewel on a 
chain of silver, smith’s tools. You also 
have a great bow, 20 arrows, and a 
leather corslet and shield.
17
Cautious. You are considered in your actions, 
lest your carelessness give Shadow agents an 
opportunity.
Dark Secrets. The best way to elude and defeat 
your hunters is to learn more about them. You 
study all you can about the Shadow.
My example inspires others to do the same.
I put my friends in danger just by being with them.
Night Vision - dim light 60 ft as bright light, in 
darkness as if it is dim light.
Elvish Dreams - four hours of dream resting per 
night
Against the Unseen - You can perceive creatures 
in the wraith-world (Invisible undead) and are 
immune to becoming Frightened by the undead.
Beset by Woe - When you undertake to Heal 
Corruption, gain 1 permanent Shadow and lose 1 
temporary Shadow before making your check.
Troubling to the Wise - you know some of the 
Great and the Good and can sometimes receive 
favours from them. You also might know hiding 
places in some castles and cities that you visit.
Warden’s Gift - you have one Gift die (a d6). You 
can grant that die to an ally who may use it in the 
next 10 minutes and add it to one ability check, 
attack roll or saving throw. You regain the Gift die 
after a long rest. 
Ever Watchful - spend a few hours travelling and 
talking with locals to make a DC 12 Intelligence 
(Investigation) check with Advantage. Success 
means you know news, rumours and important 
individuals. Failure means you know some, but 
don’t know what is true
Cultural Virtue: None. 
	 	
	
 
TM
Charisma
Shadow
Temporary Hit 
Points
Miserable
Permanent
1(1D8)
0
0
Player
Name

--- PAGE 139 ---
Magical Treasure Index
Loremaster: ________________  Campaign: ____________________________________
Campaign Members: ______________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________ 
- Precious objects -
Notes: 
____________________________
_________________________________
_________________________________
________________________________
________________________________
________________________________
________________________________
________________________________
_________________________________
________________________________
________________________________
________________________________
________________________________
__________________________________
__________________________________
_________________________________
_________________________________
_________________________________
_________________________________
__________________________________
- Wondrous Artefacts -
Notes: 
____________________________
_________________________________
_________________________________
________________________________
________________________________
________________________________
________________________________
________________________________
_________________________________
________________________________
________________________________
________________________________
________________________________
__________________________________
__________________________________
__________________________________
__________________________________
_________________________________
_________________________________
__________________________________
__________________________________
__________________________________
__________________________________
_________________________________
__________________________________
__________________________________
_________________________________
__________________________________
__________________________________
_________________________________
__________________________________
__________________________________
__________________________________
__________________________________
__________________________________
_________________________________
_________________________________
__________________________________

--- PAGE 140 ---
Legendary Weapons and Armour
Companion: 
Item: 
Type:	 	
	
Craftsmanship:
Banes:
Qualities:
1.
2.
3.
Notes: ____________________________
________________________________
________________________________
________________________________
________________________________
________________________________
________________________________
________________________________
Companion: 
Item: 
Type:	 	
	
Craftsmanship:
Banes:
Qualities:
1.
2.
3.
Notes: ____________________________
________________________________
________________________________
________________________________
________________________________
________________________________
________________________________
________________________________
Companion: 
Item: 
Type:	 	
	
Craftsmanship:
Banes:
Qualities:
1.
2.
3.
Notes: ____________________________
________________________________
________________________________
________________________________
________________________________
________________________________
________________________________
________________________________
Companion: 
Item: 
Type:	 	
	
Craftsmanship:
Banes:
Qualities:
1.
2.
3.
Notes: ____________________________
________________________________
________________________________
________________________________
________________________________
________________________________
________________________________
________________________________

--- PAGE 141 ---
141
- index -
A
(Nazgûl) Abilities	
74
(New Creature) Abilities	
70
(New Especially Strong) Abilities	
69
(New Exceptional Troupe) Abilities	
70
(Special) Abilities of the Undead	
73
(Powerful) Adversaries	
69
‘Agents’ of the White Council	
22
Aiwiel	
35
Ambush	
70
Amphibious	
71
Ancient and Forgotten Treasures	
90
Ancient Elven-craft	
98
Ancient Ruins	
34
Angmar	
50
	
Inhabitants	
51
	
Notable Characters	
51
	
Notable Locations	
53
	
Wildlife	
50
Arbarad	
57
Arthedain Stands Alone	
29
Artificer of Eregion	
118
(Seeing) Arwen	
16
Asfaloth	
17
B
(A) Barren and Pathless Country	
122
(Entering a) Barrow	
65
(The) Barrow-downs	
62
	
Inhabitants	
63
	
Notable Characters	
63
	
Notable Locations	
64
	
Wildlife	
63
Barrow Tombs	
64
Barrow-wights	
82
Battle Cry	
71
Battle-hardened	
70
Beauty of the Stars	
119
Berk the Gatekeeper	
39
Berk’s ‘Gate’	
40
Bitter Experience	
111
Bewilder	
71
Black Breath	
74
Black Dread	
73
(The) Black Shadow	
75
Bloodstump the Hunter	
43, 79
Bodyguards	
71
Bog Soldiers	
83
Books and Maps of Forbidden Lore	
121
Bradan	
67
Braving the Ford	
68
Broken Blades	
71
(The) Burial Bog	
45
Burzash, Orc Warlord	
51
C
(The) Cairn of the Crag-King	
43
Camouflage	
71
Carn Dûm	
54
Cellars, Crypts and Caverns Map	
11
Challenge Ratings	
69
(The) Coldfells	
41
	
Inhabitants	
43
	
Notable Characters	
43
	
Notable Locations	
43
	
Wildlife	
43
Commanding	
71
Concerning the Undead	
72
Craven	
71
Crebain of Tharbad	
75
(The) Crossing of Tharbad	
67
Cruel Stroke	
69
Cultural Attitudes Chart	
118
Cultural Heirlooms – High Elves of Rivendell	
121
Cultural Virtues – High Elves of Rivendell	
118
Cunning Speech	
71
(How to Design a) Curse	
100
(Lifting a) Curse	
100
Cursed Items	
99
(Examples of) Curses	
101
D
Damron, the Elven-smith	
19
Dangers of the Wild	
75
Dark Undead or Unclad and Invisible	
87
Darken	
101
Darker than the Darkness	
73
Deadly	
70
Deadly Elusiveness	
69
Deadly Spear-Thrust	
71
Deadly Voice	
74
Discovering the One Ring	
102
(The) Dome of Sight	
61
Dreadful Spells	
73
Dreorg the Wargling	
45, 80
Dreorg’s Warg-band	
80
Driven	
70
(The) Dúnedain go into Hiding	
31
(The) Dwarven Toybox	
40
Dwimmerlaik	
74
E
Easily Unnerved	
70
(The) Eastern Porch	
9
Effects on Experience	
23
Effects on Shadow	
23
Elbereth Githoniel!	
120
Elements of the Landscape	
34
(The) Elf-lords of Rivendell	
20
Elladan	
21
Elrohir	
20
Elrond, Master of Rivendell	
14
Elrond as a Patron	
14
Elven-craft	
98
Emissaries of the Enemy	
79
Enchant Weapons	
119
Enchanted Helms	
99
(New) Enchanted Qualities	
98
(The) End of Arnor	
29
Enfeebled	
101
Enhance Weapons	
118
Ensorcelled	
71
Entrance Hall	
9
Eregion	
34
	
Inhabitants	
35
	
Notable Characters	
35
	
Notable Locations	
37
	
Wildlife	
35
Erestor	
17
Erestor’s Medicinal Tonic	
18
Erestor’s Travelling Cordial	
18
(The) Errantries of the King	
13
(The) Ettenmoors	
44
	
Inhabitants	
45
	
Notable Characters	
45
	
Notable Locations	
45
	
Wildlife	
44
Ettins	
46, 76
Evaluate Treasure	
118
Evils of the North	
69
(The) Eye Awareness Check	
113
(The) Eye of Mordor	
110
F
(The) Fall of Angmar	
30
Famous Weapons and Armour (blank)	
139
Fate and Predestination	
92
Fear of Fire	
71
Fearsome	
69
Fearsome Bellow	
71
Feast on Suffering	
74
Fell Spirit	
74
Fell Wraiths	
84
(New) Fellowship Phase Undertakings:
	
Elven-smithing	
119
	
Find and Prepare Athelas	
56
	
Go See a Lore-master	
23
	
Honouring the Fallen	
42
	
Open Rivendell as a Sanctuary	
23
	
Receive Title (Friend of Elrond)	
24
	
Researching Lore in the House of Elrond	
24
	
Return to Amon Dûn	
61
	
There and Back Again	
24
	
Visit the Treasury of your Folk	
25
	
Watch upon Amon Sûl	
58
	
Write a Song	
25
Finding Rivendell	
7
Formidable	
70
Fornost Erain	
61
Friend of Elrond	
25
(The) Front Porch	
7
(The) Frozen Path	
54
G
Gems, Jewels and Crystals	
96
Ghost-form	
74
(The) Ghostly Voices of Fornost	
61
Ghosts	
73
Ghosts of the Past	
34
Gishak Gashnaga	
59
Gleaming Blade	
98
Glorfindel	
16
Goblins of Carn Dûm	
77
Golfimbul’s Gully	
49
(The) Great Barrow Stone	
64
(The) Great Hall	
9
Great Might	
70
Greater Stone-troll	
76
(The) Greenway and the East Road	
61
(The) Grey Waste	
53
H
(Elrond) Halfelven	
13	
(The) Hall of Fire	
9
Hate Sunlight	
71
Hawk’s Eye	
71
(New) Herb: Kindler’s Lace	
122
(The) Hidden Valley	
6
Hiding from the Eye	
23
High Elves of Rivendell	
116
	
Cultural Attitudes	
118
	
Description	
117
	
High Elf Names	
117
	
High Elf Traits	
117
	
Standard of Living	
117
High Elf of Rivendell Character Sheet	
137-138
(The) Hill-men of Rhudaur	
52, 77
(A) History of Eriador	
27
Hoard Ratings	
91
Horrible Strength	
71
(The) House of Elrond Map	
10
How to Make Magical Treasure Rolls	
92
How to use the Rivendell Region Guide	
5
(The) Hunt	
110
Index

--- PAGE 142 ---
Rivendell Region Guide
142
(The) Hunt Intensifies	
111
(Resetting the) Hunt Score	
112
Hunted	
101
I
Ill-luck	
101
Ill-omen	
101
Imladris	
6
Incorporeal Movement	
74
Introduction	
4
(The) Iron Crown of Angmar	
53
J
Journey Event Table Entry 1	
123
Journey Event Table Entry 2	
124
Journey Event Table Entry 3	
126
Journey Event Table Entry 4	
127
Journey Event Table Entry 5	
128
Journey Event Table Entry 6	
128
Journey Event Table Entry 7	
130
Journey Event Table Entry 8	
131
Journey Event Table Entry 9	
132
Journey Event Table Entry 10	
133
Journey Event Table Entry 11	
134
Journey Event Table Entry 12	
135
K
Keen Hearing and Smell	
71
Kyna	
66
L
(The) Land Between the Rivers	
39
(Staying at the) Last Homely House	
22
(The) Last Homely House	
7
Leadership	
71
Legendary	
70
Legendary Weapons and Armour	
93
Legendary Weapons and 
Armour example	
105, 107, 109
Lesser Ring	
121
Lindir	
19
(The) Long Winter	
33
Lone-lands	
34
(The) Lord of the Nazgûl	
87
(The) Lord of the Nazgûl as Dark Undead	
89
(The) Lord of the Nazgûl, Unclad and Invisible	
88
M
Mad Ostley	
63
(Using) Magic	
111
(Displays of) Magical Power	
112
(How to Compile a) Magical Treasure Index	
97
Magical Treasure Index (blank)	
138
Magical Treasure Index example	
103, 106, 108
Magical Treasure Indexes	
97
Magical Treasure Rolls	
91
Magical Virtues and Features	
112
(The) Magpies of Mount Gram	
49
Malice	
101
Maps & Books of Lore	
12
(Meeting the) Master of the Last Homely House	
14
Midgewater Marshes	
58
Might of the Firstborn	
120
Mixed Warbands	
78
Monsters of Eriador	
75
Morgul-knives	
88
Mount Gram	
46
	
Inhabitants	
47
	
Notable Characters	
48
	
Notable Locations	
49
	
Wildlife	
47
N
Nimble Escape	
71
(The) North Downs	
59
	
Inhabitants	
59
	
Notable Characters	
59
	
Notable Locations	
61
	
Wildlife	
59
Not All That Glitters...	
97
Notable Characters	
12
O
(The) Orc Wars	
32
Orcs of Mount Gram	
78
‘Ordinary’ Treasure	
92
Outbuildings	
12
Owned	
101
P
Pack Tactics	
71
Parry	
72
(The) Passing of Years	
5
(The) Peak of Mount Gram	
49
Precious Objects	
95
Precious Objects Descriptions	
96
(How) Precious Objects Work	
95
Q
(The) Queen of Castle Hill	
40, 81
R
Radgul the Orc-Chief	
48, 81
Region Dweller	
71
(The) Realm of Arnor	
27
Recent Years	
33
Reckless	
72
Recovery	
23
(The) Redhorn Pass	
37
(The) Refuge of the Dúnedain	
40
(The) Regions of Eastern Eriador	
34
(The) Restless Dead	
82
Revelation Episodes	
113
(Examples of Revelation) Episodes	
114
(The) Rise of Angmar	
28
Rise of the Rangers	
31
(Things to do while in) Rivendell	
22
Rivendell Map	
8
Runes of Clarity	
98
Runes of Protection	
99
S
Sentimental Value	
90
Serious Misfortune	
114
Shadow Gain	
111
Shadow of Fear	
74
Shadow Taint	
101
Sigil of Guarding	
99
Singing Songs	
26
Skill of the Eldar	
120
Skillful	
70
Smiting	
99
Sneak Attack	
72
(The) South Downs and Weather Hills	
55
	
Inhabitants	
57
	
Notable Characters	
57
	
Notable Locations	
58
	
Wildlife	
56
Spear of the Last Alliance (Great Spear)	
121
Spectres	
85
Spells of Despair	
74
Stealthy	
72
(The) Steward of Carn Dûm	
52
Strike Fear	
72
Sunlight Sensitivity	
72
Superior Runes of Protection	
99
(The) Swanfleet	
68
Swiftness	
99
T
Tainted Treasure	
91, 92
Talandil, Ranger of the North Downs	
59
Tharbad	
65
	
Inhabitants	
66
	
Notable Characters	
66
	
Notable Locations	
67
	
Wildlife	
66
(The) Third Age	
28
Thrall	
72
Touched by the Shadow	
92
Tough Hide	
72
(The) Tower of Twilight	
61
Trained	
70
(Description of) Trinket Table	
93-94
(The) Troll-Hole	
40
(The) Trollshaws	
38
	
Notable Characters	
39
	
Notable Locations	
40
	
Wildlife	
39
Two Centurie s of Oblivion	
33
U
Undead Fortitude	
74
(Arwen) Undómiel	
15
Unnatural Vitality	
74
Unyielding	
70
Upper Floors	
12
(The) Upper Solar	
12
V
Vault	
12
(The) Veil	
112
Vilya, the Ring of Air	
15
Visions of Torment	
74
W
Walking Dead	
73
(The) Warden of Amon Sûl	
57
(The) Warg of the Redhorn Gate	
36
(The) Watchtowers	
54
Weak Spot	
72
Weakness	
102
Weathertop	
58
What does the Hunt represent?	
111
What is a Hoard?	
90
(The) Whispering Hills	
37
(The) White Council	
21
(The) White Council as a Patron	
22
Wicked Cunning	
70
(The) Wight-king	
64, 86
Wights	
73
(The) Witch-king	
89
Winds from the Wastes	
54
(The) Wolf-Den of the South Downs	
58
Wondrous Artefacts	
93
Wondrous Artefacts and Legendary
Weapons and Armour	
100
Words of Power and Terror	
74
Worthless Trinkets	
93
Worthless Trinkets and Precious Objects	
100
Wraith-like	
74
(The) Wraith-lord	
87
(The) Wraith-lord of Mount Gram	
48
Wraiths	
73

--- PAGE 143 ---
Children kidnapped in the night, unusually cunning Trolls, a mysterious caravan, the fate of a company of 
Hobbits, the legacy of the Dúnedain and an evil awakening beneath the barrows – six new stories set in the 
ancient land of Eriador. Six adventures that need a company of heroes to undertake them. 
Delve into the ruins of overgrown Fornost, walk amidst the cairns of the Barrow-downs and venture to the lair 
of the Witch-king of Angmar himself, the ancient city of Carn Dûm — if you have the courage!
Find out more at cubicle7.co.uk

--- PAGE 144 ---
OPEN GAME LICENSE Version 1.0a 
The following text is the property of Wizards of the Coast, Inc. and is 
Copyright 2000 Wizards of the Coast, Inc ("Wizards"). All Rights Reserved. 
1. Definitions: (a)"Contributors" means the copyright and/or trademark 
owners who have contributed Open Game Content; (b)"Derivative 
Material" means copyrighted material including derivative works 
and translations (including into other computer languages), potation, 
modification, correction, addition, extension, upgrade, improvement, 
compilation, abridgment or other form in which an existing work may 
be recast, transformed or adapted; (c) "Distribute" means to reproduce, 
license, rent, lease, sell, broadcast, publicly display, transmit or otherwise 
distribute; (d)"Open Game Content" means the game mechanic and 
includes the methods, procedures, processes and routines to the extent 
such content does not embody the Product Identity and is an enhancement 
over the prior art and any additional content clearly identified as Open 
Game Content by the Contributor, and means any work covered by this 
License, including translations and derivative works under copyright law, 
but specifically excludes Product Identity. (e) "Product Identity" means 
product and product line names, logos and identifying marks including 
trade dress; artifacts; creatures characters; stories, storylines, plots, 
thematic elements, dialogue, incidents, language, artwork, symbols, 
designs, depictions, likenesses, formats, poses, concepts, themes and 
graphic, photographic and other visual or audio representations; names 
and descriptions of characters, spells, enchantments, personalities, 
teams, personas, likenesses and special abilities; places, locations, 
environments, creatures, equipment, magical or supernatural abilities or 
effects, logos, symbols, or graphic designs; and any other trademark or 
registered trademark clearly identified as Product identity by the owner 
of the Product Identity, and which specifically excludes the Open Game 
Content; (f) "Trademark" means the logos, names, mark, sign, motto, 
designs that are  used by a Contributor to identify itself or its products 
or the associated products contributed to the Open Game License by the 
Contributor (g) "Use", "Used" or "Using" means to use, Distribute, copy, 
edit, format, modify, translate and otherwise create Derivative Material 
of Open Game Content. (h) "You" or "Your" means the licensee in terms of 
this agreement. 
2. The License: This License applies to any Open Game Content that 
contains a notice indicating that the Open Game Content may only be 
Used under and in terms of this License. You must affix such a notice 
to any Open Game Content that you Use. No terms may be added to or 
subtracted from this License except as described by the License itself. No 
other terms or conditions may be applied to any Open Game Content 
distributed using this License. 
3.Offer and Acceptance: By Using the Open Game Content You indicate 
Your acceptance of the terms of this License. 
4. Grant and Consideration: In consideration for agreeing to use this 
License, the Contributors grant You a perpetual, worldwide, royalty free, 
non exclusive license with the exact terms of this License to Use, the Open 
Game Content. 
5.Representation of Authority to Contribute: If You are contributing 
original material as Open Game Content, You represent that Your 
Contributions are Your original creation and/or You have sufficient rights 
to grant the rights conveyed by this License. 
6.Notice of License Copyright: You must update the COPYRIGHT NOTICE 
portion of this License to include the exact text of the COPYRIGHT NOTICE 
of any Open Game Content You are copying, modifying or distributing, 
and You must add the title, the copyright date, and the copyright holder's 
name to the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any original Open Game Content you 
Distribute. 
7. Use of Product Identity: You agree not to Use any Product Identity, 
including as an indication as to compatibility, except as expressly licensed 
in another, independent Agreement with the owner of each element of that 
Product Identity. You agree not to indicate compatibility or co adaptability 
with any Trademark or Registered Trademark in conjunction with a work 
containing Open Game Content except as expressly licensed in another, 
independent Agreement with the owner of such Trademark or Registered 
Trademark. The use of any Product Identity in Open Game Content does 
not constitute a challenge to the ownership of that Product Identity. The 
owner of any Product Identity used in Open Game Content shall retain all 
rights, title and interest in and to that Product Identity. 
8. Identification: If you distribute Open Game Content You must clearly 
indicate which portions of the work that you are distributing are Open 
Game Content. 
9. Updating the License: Wizards or its designated Agents may publish 
updated versions of this License. You may use any authorized version 
of this License to copy, modify and distribute any Open Game Content 
originally distributed under any version of this License. 
10. Copy of this License: You MUST include a copy of this License with 
every copy of the Open Game Content You Distribute. 
11. Use of Contributor Credits: You may not market or advertise the Open 
Game Content using the name of any Contributor unless You have written 
permission from the Contributor to do so. 
12. Inability to Comply: If it is impossible for You to comply with any of the 
terms of this License with respect to some or all of the Open Game Content 
due to statute, judicial order, or governmental regulation then You may 
not Use any Open Game Material so affected. 
13. Termination: This License will terminate automatically if You fail 
to comply with all terms herein and fail to cure such breach within 30 
days of becoming aware of the breach. All sublicenses shall survive the 
termination of this License. 
14. Reformation: If any provision of this License is held to be 
unenforceable, such provision shall be reformed only to the extent 
necessary to make it enforceable. 
15. COPYRIGHT NOTICE 
Open Game License v 1.0a Copyright 2000, Wizards of the Coast, LLC. 
System Reference Document 5.1 Copyright 2016, Wizards of the Coast, 
Inc.; Authors Mike Mearls, Jeremy Crawford, Chris Perkins, Rodney 
Thompson, Peter Lee, James Wyatt, Robert J. Schwalb, Bruce R. Cordell, 
Chris Sims, and Steve Townshend, based on original material by E. Gary 
Gygax and Dave Arneson. 
Adventures in Middle-earth Player’s Guide Copyright 2016 Cubicle 7 
Entertainment Ltd/Sophisticated Games Ltd; Authors: James Brown, Paul 
Butler, Walt Ciechanowksi, Steve Emmott, Gareth Ryder-Hanrahan, Jon 
Hodgson, Shane Ivey, Andrew Kenrick, TS Luikart, Dominic McDowall, 
Francesco Nepitello, James Spahn, Ken Spencer.
Adventures in Middle-earth Loremaster’s Guide Copyright 2017 
Cubicle 7 Entertainment Ltd/Sophisticated Games Ltd; Authors: Walt 
Ciechanowski, Steve Emmott, Jon Hodgson, TS Luikart, Dominic 
McDowall, Francesco Nepitello, David Rea, Jacob Rodgers, Gareth 
Ryder-Hanrahan and Ken Spencer.
Adventures in Middle-earth Wilderland Adventures Copyright 2017 
Cubicle 7 Entertainment Ltd/Sophisticated Games Ltd; Authors: Gareth 
Ryder-Hanrahan, Francesco Nepitello, Jon Hodgson, and Steve Emmott.
Adventures in Middle-earth Rivendell Region Guide Copyright 2018 
Cubicle 7 Entertainment Ltd/Sophisticated Games Ltd; Authors: Francesco 
Nepitello with Shane Ivey, Andrew Kenrick, Thomas Morwinsky, Jacob 
Rodgers, James M. Spahn, Amado Angulo and Marco Maggi.
END OF LICENSE