--- PAGE 1 ---
MARC RADLE
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 2 ---
1
1
Open Design, Kobold Press, and Midgard are trademarks of Open Design. 
Open Game Content:  The Open content in this issue includes the monster stat blocks, new spells, and new monsters. 
All other material is Product Identity, especially place names, character names, locations, story elements, and fiction. 
No other portion of this work may be reproduced in any form without permission.
©2018 Open Design. All rights reserved.
ISBN 978-1-936781-87-4
www.koboldpress.com
Shadows 
   Dusk Queen
Special Thanks to the Merry Band of Playtesters: Eric Griffith, Rod Griffith, Miles Myers and Mitch Radle.
By Marc Radle
A 5th-Edition Adventure For 8th-level Characters
Design: Marc Radle
Cover Artist: Bryan Syme
Editor: Eytan Bernstein
Interior Artist: Matt Bulahao, Bryan Syme
Cartography: Todd Gamble
Art Direction and Graphic Design: Marc Radle
5E Conversion and Editing: Thomas M. Reid
Publisher: Wolfgang Baur
CREDITS
of
  the
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 3 ---
22
Adventur e Background
A mysterious shadow fey known as the Dusk Queen left the 
Winter Court and came to a forest of shadows where she 
ruled the land from a great stone tower. Although capable 
of surprising acts of kindness, the vast majority of her reign 
was marked by cruelty, violence, and death. At some point, 
the Dusk Queen encountered a powerful wizard from a 
land of pitiless, burning sun and endless sand traveling in 
her realm for unknown reasons. Against all logic, they fell 
in love, eventually exchanging dark and secret vows in the 
queen’s throne room. Because of his homeland, the wizard 
came to be known as the Sun King. 
The two were happy in their own, strange way until the 
Dusk Queen had a magical mirror created. This powerful 
item, which was infused with shadowy strands of the Dusk 
Queen’s very life essence, greatly expanded her powers and 
her ambition. The mirror allowed her to spy on her enemies 
(both real and imagined), cast powerful spells through it 
across vast distances, and even magically transport herself 
or her minions to the farthest locations. The Dusk Queen 
used her mirror with rapidly growing paranoia and zeal, 
wreaking havoc and death throughout the land. The Sun 
King found it more and more difficult to overlook the 
Queen’s escalating acts of evil and violence. When he 
learned the Dusk Queen was secretly plotting to invade his 
homeland, the Sun King knew he had to act.
In the deepest part of a cold, moonless night, the Sun King 
wove his most powerful spells while the Dusk Queen slept, 
magically banishing her to a hidden and unknown prison. 
Once she was gone, the wizard smashed the Dusk Queen’s 
mirror and departed the tower, vowing never to return.
hroughout the land, legends of the Dusk Queen persist. They speak of a 
sometimes kind, other times cruel, yet always mysterious fey queen who ruled 
from her Dusk Tower—a tall spire of smooth, dark stone in the heart of a great, 
shadowy forest. Perhaps the most gripping legends, however, whisper of the Dusk 
Queen’s sudden and mysterious disappearance.
T
Table of Contents
Adventure Background......................................2
	
Hooks.......................................................................... 2
Getting Started ...................................................3
	
The Weeping Treant................................................... 3
The Shadow Forest...............................................5
	
Black Stirges................................................................ 5
The Search for the Shards ...............................5
	
Wandering Monsters................................................. 6
	
The Shadow Nymphs’ Pool ...................................... 6
	
The Putrid Bog .......................................................... 7
	
The Mirror Shards...................................................... 7
	
The Dead Behir.......................................................... 9
	
Message from the Shadows.....................................10
	
The Hanging Tree ....................................................10
	
The Pit of Shadows...................................................11
The Queen of Shadows ......................................13
	
The Dusk Queen’s Tower.........................................13
	
Shadowy Negotiations.............................................13
	
Battle for the Shards................................................14
	
Adventure Conclusion............................................19
	
The Tower’s Fate.......................................................19
The Shadow Grimoire........................................19
HOOKS
How and why the PCs have come to the Shadow Forest is 
left to the GM and the needs of the campaign. The party 
could simply happen upon the forest while traveling 
through some desolate or otherwise unexplored area and 
decide to investigate. Alternatively, the forest could be a 
place well known but avoided by locals that the PCs have 
specifically come to explore. Local leadership might even 
hire the PCs to enter the forest, find out if the rumors 
of the Dusk Queen’s return are true and, if so, rid the 
forest of her foul taint once and for all.
 Reluctant PCs can be tempted with legends of 
specific magical treasures rumored to be within the 
forest. The party wizard, for example, might hear of a 
powerful, intelligent spellbook hidden somewhere in 
the forest and decide to investigate.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 4 ---
3
3
The Sun King’s magic did not work as he had planned, 
however. Due perhaps to the lingering spark of love 
he still harbored within his heart, the Dusk Queen’s 
magical imprisonment was not permanent. Likewise, the 
destruction of her mirror was also incomplete—five shards 
of glass exploded from the mirror and, impossibly, came to 
rest in various locations throughout the surrounding forest, 
waiting to be found. . . .
Getting Started
The adventure begins with the characters coming upon 
a deep and mysterious forest filled with ever-shifting 
shadows. When the PCs first approach the forest, read the 
following to get the adventure underway:
Before you is a dark forest with trees rising as much as a 
hundred feet into the air. Foreboding and sorrow seem to 
emanate from within. Occasionally, shadowy creatures, only 
glimpsed, move among the trees. Slow, plaintive howls echo 
among the dark branches as a cool wind begins to blow, as if 
whispering barely discernible words . . . 
	 She has returned. She has returned. She has returned. 
	 The trees directly before you slowly part, forming a natural 
opening that leads into the shadowy woods beyond.
A successful DC 10 Wisdom (Perception) check by 
anyone peering into the dark forest reveals the following:
As your eyes slowly adjust to the dim light, you see the 
silhouette of a large, tree-like creature emerge from perhaps 
30 paces into the woods and step onto the path. The strange 
creature completely blocks the way and seems to be watching 
you and waiting.
A. THE WEEPING TREANT                     
XP Threshold: 2,300
The shadowy silhouette is a weeping treant. It does not 
respond or react to the PCs in any way unless they enter the 
forest and approach it. Once the PCs get within 30 feet, read:
A large, living tree with dark, cracked bark blocks the trail in 
front of you. Black eyes watch you intently. Thick, dark sap 
runs unchecked like tears down its gnarled face. The strange 
creature shows no other sign of emotion. Suddenly, it speaks 
in a deep, powerful voice: 
	 “She has returned! The Dusk Queen has returned! Have 
you come to retrieve the mirror shards for her?”
The weeping treant watches the PCs, silently waiting for an 
answer. The creature completely blocks the path and lets no 
one pass until it receives a satisfactory response.
DEVELOPMENT
PCs attempting to gain information from the weeping 
treant, convince it they have indeed come to retrieve the 
shards for the Dusk Queen, or otherwise deceive it in 
any way must succeed on a DC 13 Charisma (Deception) 
or Charisma (Persuasion) check. If the PCs manage to 
fool the treant, it reveals the locations of the five shards 
throughout the forest:
One rests at the bottom of a dark pool 
One is embedded in the trunk of the Hanging Tree 
One lies beneath a mound of smooth, black stones 
One has fallen into a deep pit of shadows 
One is somewhere within the Putrid Bog 
Once the weeping treant has given this cryptic information, 
it insists the PCs leave immediately to retrieve the shards 
for the Dusk Queen, who resides once again in her tower. 
The weeping treant might be persuaded to answer a few 
additional questions, but very quickly becomes impatient 
and suspicious.
DC
Result
5
The Dusk Queen ruled the Shadow Forest and surrounding lands for many years until she vanished mysteriously.
8
The Dusk Queen possessed a powerful magic mirror that she used to control and terrorize her subjects; someone 
known as the Sun King smashed the mirror shortly before the Dusk Queen’s mysterious disappearance.
12
The Shadow Forest is thought to be inhabited by frightening creatures, many of which come from the Plane of 
Shadow itself!
16
The Dusk Queen was protected by a dark paladin; many whispered that this dread guard was much more to her 
than simply a royal guard.
20
The Dusk Queen was a shadow fey who journeyed to the Shadow Forest from the fey realm of the Winter Court. 
She was also said to be a true theurge, able to wield both arcane and divine magic in powerful and unique ways.
INTELLIGENCE (ARCANA) OR INTELLIGENCE (HISTORY)
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 5 ---
44
 Should the PCs at any point fail to convince the weeping 
treant, or if it determines the PCs have been deceiving it, the 
creature furiously and relentlessly attacks! 
THE WEEPING TREANT
This twisted tree’s cracked, black bark is knotted into 
vaguely humanoid features, with branches for arms and 
roots for legs. Thick, sap-like black tears run unchecked 
down its face.
Weeping treants clearly are related to other treants, but they 
are smaller than the normal variety, little more than 30 feet 
tall with a trunk 3 feet in diameter, and weighing no more 
than 4,500 lb. Their gnarled trunks are often twisted, and 
their wood often groans when they move.
Forest Wardens. Weeping treants are protectors of 
dark, shadowy forests, and they are as long-lived as the 
trees themselves. They act as guardians for an entire forest 
or for something specific within the forest—they have no 
pity for those carrying axes or fire.
Skeptical Mein. Weeping treants are terrifying and 
relentless when fighting in defense of their charge. They are 
inherently distrustful, particularly of anything not of the 
natural or shadow world, and they’re notoriously difficult to 
fool or deceive.
Enchanted Bitter Tears. Sages and scholars 
debate why these creatures weep, but no one 
has come forward with a compelling reason 
beyond “it’s what trees do.” The weeping treants 
themselves refuse to speak on the matter. Their tears are 
occasionally components in druidic spells or items.
WEEPING TREANT
Huge plant, neutral
Armor Class 17 (natural armor)
Hit Points 105 (10d12 + 40)
Speed 30 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
21 (+5)	
8 (–1)	
18 (+4)	
12 (+1)	
16 (+3)	
11 (+0)
Damage Resistances bludgeoning and piercing
Damage Vulnerabilities fire
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 13
Languages Common, Druidic, Elvish, Sylvan
Challenge 6 (2,300 XP)
Siege Monster. The treant deals double 
damage to objects and structures.
Treespeech. A weeping treant can 
converse with plants, and most plants greet them 
with a friendly or helpful attitude.
Acidic Tears. Thick tears of dark sap stream 
continuously down the treant’s face and 
trunk. These tears are highly acidic—anyone 
who attacks the treant from a range of 5 feet or less must 
succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or take 6 
(1d12) acid damage from splashed tears. This acidic matter 
continues doing 6 (1d12) acid damage at the start of each of 
the creature’s turns until it or an adjacent ally uses an action 
to wipe off the tears or three rounds elapse.
ACTIONS
Multiattack. The treant makes three slam attacks.
Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., single 
target. Hit: 15 (3d6 + 5) bludgeoning damage.
Rock. Ranged Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, range 60/180 ft., one 
target. Hit: 21 (3d10 + 5) bludgeoning damage.
TREASURE
The weeping treant has no treasure.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 6 ---
5
5
The Shadow For est
When the PCs enter the forest itself, the feeling of 
foreboding and sorrow subtly intensifies. The mysterious, 
plaintive howls continue to echo among the branches and 
the chilling wind continues to whisper . . .
   She has returned. She has returned. She has returned. 
A powerful abjuration aura permeates the entire forest, 
limiting magical transportation such as dimension door or 
teleport to a maximum of 30 feet at a time, regardless of the 
spell’s normal range.
 Swarms of black stirges (see sidebar) dwell in the upper 
reaches of the tree tops. They viciously attack any who 
attempt to climb or fly into the forest’s thick upper canopy. 
The Search for the Shar ds
Remember to continually reinforce the dark and mysterious 
atmosphere as the PCs move throughout the forest. Long, 
thick shadows obscure vision; the heroes randomly hear 
the sounds of animals and other, even stranger beasts in the 
distance; and the cold wind whistles and howls through the 
trees. During moments of inactivity, the wind again seems 
to wail . . .	
She has returned.  She has returned. She has returned.
BLACK STIRGES
Treat as standard stirges (see SRD) with the  
following changes:
Shadow Blend: In conditions of illumination 
other than full daylight, a black stirge disappears 
into the shadows, gaining the equivalent of heavy 
obscurement. Artificial illumination, even a light or 
continual flame spell, does not negate this ability; 
a daylight spell, however, does. A black stirge can 
suspend or resume this ability as a bonus action.
Strength Drain: Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to 
hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 5 (1d4 + 3) piercing 
damage, and the stirge attaches to the target. While 
attached, the stirge doesn’t attack. Instead, the 
target’s Strength score is reduced by 1d4. The target 
dies if this reduces its Strength to 0. Otherwise, the 
reduction lasts until the target finishes a short or long 
rest. The stirge can detach itself by spending 5 feet 
of its movement. It does so after it drains 4 points of 
Strength from the target or the target dies. A creature, 
including the target, can use its action to detach the 
stirge. This replaces the stirge’s Blood Drain action.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 7 ---
66
B. THE SHADOW NYMPHS’ POOL               
XP Threshold: 5,400
A small pool of calm, dark water lies nestled in a secluded 
clearing. As you watch, two delicate figures rise gracefully 
from the still pool.  The painfully beautiful creatures have long 
black hair that falls down their bare backs before gathering 
around their waists on the surface of the dark water. 
	 The two dark beauties stare at you for a moment with 
calm, suspicious eyes before at last speaking, “Why have you 
come to our pool? Are you here to harm us?”
Sapphyl and Lasralith, two shadow nymphs, guard 
one of the shards. They keep it extremely well hidden 
at the bottom of their deep, dark pool (DC 22 Wisdom 
[Perception] check to find). The shadow nymphs have 
no love for the Dusk Queen  and are not happy she has 
escaped from her long imprisonment. A successful DC 
12 Charisma (Persuasion) check convinces the distrustful 
shadow nymphs the PCs are not loyal to the Dusk Queen 
and mean them no harm.
Sapphyl and Lasralith show great relief and beg the  PCs to 
destroy the Dusk Queen once and for all. If the PCs agree, 
the shadow nymphs gladly volunteer to give the PCs the 
mirror shard they have been hiding since they first found it.
 The nymphs are desperate to see the Dusk Queen 
destroyed. However, Sapphyl and Lasralith also fear for their 
lives should the queen learn they’ve aided the PCs and are 
unwilling to offer any additional assistance beyond what has 
been detailed here.
DEVELOPMENT 
The Shadow Nymphs reveal (or confirm) the locations of 
the other four shards. They stress that the forest is extremely 
dangerous and the PCs should remain on the trails at all 
costs. Additionally, they share a rumor that says if all five 
shards can be found and placed physically together, the 
combined shards can produce a magic powerful enough to 
greatly aid in any battle against the Dusk Queen. 
TREASURE 
Sapphyl and Lasralith have three potions of greater healing 
and one scroll of lesser restoration which they gladly give 
the PCs to help them in their quest.
GM NOTE
It is important to remember Sapphyl and Lasralith have lived 
in the forest a very, very long time and can answer most 
questions the PCs might have regarding the Dusk Queen 
and her tower (essentially, the GM should use the shadow 
nymphs to move the story along, clear up any confusion the 
players might have so far, and fill in missing plot points).
SHADOW NYMPHS (2)
Medium fey, neutral
Armor Class 15
Hit Points 76 (9d8 + 36)
Speed 30 ft., swim 30 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
10 (+0)	
21 (+5)	 18 (+4)	
16 (+3)	
17 (+3)	
25 (+7)
Saving Throws Dex +10, Cha +10
Skills Deception +10, Persuasion +10, Stealth +8
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 16
Languages Common, Sylvan
Challenge 5 (1,100 XP)
Blinding Beauty: All creatures within 30 feet of a shadow 
nymph who look directly at her must succeed on a DC 
18 Charisma saving throw or be blinded permanently. A 
creature can avoid this effect for one full round by choosing 
to avert its eyes at the start of its turn, but it then has 
disadvantage on any attacks or other rolls directed against 
the shadow nymph until the start of its next turn. A shadow 
nymph can suppress or resume this ability as a bonus action. 
Anyone who successfully saves against this effect cannot be 
affected by it from the same shadow nymph for 24 hours.
WANDERING MONSTERS
Although the paths are relatively safe and easy to 
travel, the same cannot be said if the PCs attempt to 
stray from the paths and venture into the dense woods 
themselves, which is considered difficult terrain. There 
is a 50% chance of a random encounter for every 2d6 
rounds spent in the forest depths instead of on the 
paths. It’s possible PCs might decide to stay and fight 
the creatures if they have little trouble with some of 
the fights. It is up to the GM’s discretion to increase 
the difficulty of the random encounters if she wishes 
to emphasize the danger of straying or decrease the 
likelihood of PCs fighting endless battles. 
WANDERING MONSTERS TABLE (SEE SRD)
d%
Encounter 
1–10
2d4 giant spiders
11–17
1d6 awakened shrubs
18–25
1d4 giant bats
26–32
1d3 worgs
33–38
1 shrieker and 1d6 zombies
39–50
1d4 shadows
51–56 
1d4 winter wolves
57–64
3d6 ettercaps and 2d8 giant spiders
65–75
2d8 skeletons
76–84
2d4 awakened trees
85–90 
1 shambling mound
95–100
1 wraith
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 8 ---
7
7
Unearthly Grace. A shadow nymph applies her Charisma 
modifier to all of her saving throws in place of the normal 
ability modifier.
Water Spirit. The shadow nymph is under the effect of 
freedom of movement whenever she is in contact with a 
body of water.
Shadow Blend: In conditions of illumination other than full 
daylight, a shadow nymph disappears into the shadows, 
gaining the equivalent of heavy obscurement. Artificial 
illumination, even a light or continual flame spell, does not 
negate this ability; a daylight spell, however, does. A shadow 
nymph can suspend or resume this ability as a bonus action.
Spellcasting. The shadow nymph is an 8th-level spellcaster. 
Her spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 18, +10 to 
hit with spell attacks). She requires no material components 
to cast her spells. The shadow nymph has the following 
druid spells prepared:
Cantrips (at will): guidance, mending, produce flame, 
resistance
1st level (4 slots): animal friendship, cure wounds, detect 
magic, entangle, faerie fire, fog cloud
2nd level (3 slots): bark skin, flame blade, moonbeam
3rd level (3 slots): call lightning, water breathing, water walk
4th level (2 slots): conjure woodland beings, control water
ACTIONS
Dagger. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 7 (1d4 + 5) piercing damage.
Stunning Glance. The shadow nymph mentally disrupts a 
creature within 30 feet with a look. The target must succeed 
on a DC 18 Wisdom saving throw or be stunned for 2 
rounds. Anyone who successfully saves against this effect 
cannot be affected by it from the same shadow nymph for 
24 hours.
C. THE PUTRID BOG (CR 9)
XP Threshold: 3,900
The forest gives way suddenly to a thick bog of twisted trees 
and dripping vines. A few small hillocks and other areas of 
soft, damp ground peek out from the stagnant water and 
muck. 
	 A strange gray mist hangs in the air, slowly swirling and 
drifting though the misshapen trees and vines as if possessing 
a mysterious sentience. The putrid stench of rot and decay 
threatens to nauseate even those with the stoutest fortitude.
THE MIRROR SHARDS
Each of the mirror shards is as wide as a man’s  fist and just 
under an inch in thickness. Although apparently made of 
normal glass, they are extremely difficult to break.
 Because the shards have the Shadow Queen’s essence 
within them, they possess a spark of quasi-intelligence. 
The mirror shards’ primary goal is to be rejoined with 
the Dusk Queen’s mirror. A shard continually urges any 
PC possessing it to take it to the Queen’s Tower. If a PC 
attempts to damage a mirror shard, remove it from the 
forest, or do anything else contrary to the shard’s goal, it 
attempts to force the PC into compliance (DC 11 Wisdom 
saving throw to resist).
A mirror shard has: AC 13; 5 (2d4) hp; damage threshold 
20; INT 4 (–3), WIS 20 (+5), CHA 21 (+5) (as long as the 
Dusk Queen is alive)
COMBINED MIRROR SHARDS
Wondrous item, legendary
If all five mirror shards are held together so they are 
stacked front to back, front to back, they have the 
following powers:
•	 Wielder can cast sacred flame three times per day as if 
by an 11th-level caster
•	 Instead of the above, the wielder can opt to cast a 
single robust sacred flame spell once per day. This 
causes maximum (24) damage, and any target creature 
with vulnerability to radiant damage rolls its saving 
throw with disadvantage
Anyone can use the five mirror shards in this way, even 
non-spellcasters.
Although the shards’ edges are certainly sharp, 
reasonably careful PCs should be in no danger of cutting 
themselves when using the shards in this way. A clever 
PC might even bind the five shards together with strong 
cord, wire, or rope in order to keep them together and 
make it easier to use them.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 9 ---
88
ENVIRONMENT
The Putrid Bog is covered in brackish water and thick mud 
ranging from only a few inches deep at most points to as 
much as a few feet at others. It is difficult terrain.
 Any non-resident of the bog must make a DC 17 
Constitution saving throw or gain the  poisoned condition 
by the bog’s putrid stench for as long as he remains within 
its confines. A successful save renders him immune to the 
effects of the bog’s stench for the duration of his visit. A 
protection from poison spell removes the effect from the 
sickened creature and renders him immune to the effects 
for the remainder of his visit. Creatures with immunity to 
poison are unaffected, and creatures with poison resistance 
receive their normal advantage on the saving throws.
 Despite the overwhelming smell of death and decay, the 
Putrid Bog is in fact teeming with life, most of it vile.
 At the heart of the Putrid Bog lies a ring of ancient 
standing stones:
An earthen mount rises from the muck. Tall, twisted 
standing stones form a ring on the center of the mound, like 
some misshapen stone claw. The mysterious rocks encircle an 
ancient stone altar of black rock carved with strange, barely 
discernible symbols. A mirror shard lies on the altar’s surface. 
	 A palpable feeling of evil and dark magic radiates from the 
entire area and the black altar in particular. 
The mound is solid enough to walk on unimpeded and is 
one of the few areas within the bog not considered difficult 
terrain. The mound is approximately 50 feet across and 
rises 5 feet above the swampy waters of the bog. The ring of 
standing stones, each anywhere from nine to 12 feet tall, is 
approximately 30 feet in diameter.
 The black rock altar radiates a permanent symbol of 
stunning (successful DC 16 Wisdom saving throw negates) 
which is triggered by anyone not of evil alignment passing 
through the ring of standing stones.
DEVELOPMENT
Any spellcaster placing both hands on the black altar causes 
the symbols to glow faintly. For the next 24 hours, any 
necromancy spell that spellcaster casts functions as if cast at 
three spell slots higher than it actually was. A spellcaster 
may only benefit from this effect once per week. 
CREATURE
The spirit naga Vessh Ossk lurks within 
the ring of standing stones. She was 
drawn to the stone circle and the dark 
magic of the black altar and has claimed 
both as her own. Vessh Ossk found the 
mirror shard some time ago and has been 
placing it on the altar each night as an 
experiment. The naga is aware of the Dusk 
Queen’s return but has yet to decide if she 
wishes to return the shard or keep it for herself.
 The spirit naga is supremely evil, highly intelligent, 
and extremely manipulative. If she learns the PCs possess 
any of the other shards, she uses lies, deception and then 
outright threats to get them for herself. If the PCs refuse, she 
viciously attacks. Vessh Ossk does not give up her own shard 
under any circumstances and fights to protect it. She does 
not leave the confines of the bog for any reason, however.
Spirit Naga: AC 15, hp 75, +7 hit, 7 (1d6 + 4) piercing 
dmg, poison, rejuvenation, spellcasting, see SRD.
TREASURE
Vessh Ossk has a collection of gems buried near the altar. 
The collection consists of one small ruby (100 gp), two 
diamonds (150 gp each), and a pyramid carved from deep 
green jade (260 gp).
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 10 ---
9
9
to die for her or the shard; if reduced to 5 hp or fewer, he 
attempts to flee.
GOTHROLG
This massive bugbear has coarse, black fur, muscular 
bare arms resembling tree-trunks, and draconic features, 
including large, bat-like dragon wings. A grisly necklace of 
ears and fingers hangs loosely around its neck. The hulking 
creature’s beady red eyes glint with sadistic intelligence and 
a lust for killing. 
D. THE DEAD BEHIR
XP Threshold: 9,000
Countless pebbles and other small stones litter this 
large clearing. In the center, you see a large mound 
of smooth, black stones. Lying on the ground 
in front of the mound is the dead body of 
a large black reptilian creature, its 
fearsome head crowned with two 
large curling horns. 
	 Surrounding the carcass 
stand a number of hulking, 
dark- furred creatures with 
tiny, milk-white eyes.
ENVIRONMENT
The large pile of black stones is 
approximately 30 feet in diameter 
and 20 feet tall. Each stone is 
perfectly smooth and about the size 
of a man’s head. Both the mound 
and clearing are considered 
difficult terrain.
 The strange black behir 
carcass is approximately 40 feet 
long and fills much of the area 
directly in front of the mound 
of black stones.
CREATURES
A band of bugbears has recently 
ventured into the forest, hoping to 
claim it as new hunting grounds. 
Three bugbears are focused on picking 
over the recently slain carcass of the 
black behir while six others are 
spread out across the clearing, 
busily repairing weapons or 
performing other chores. The 
bugbears are all focused on 
their tasks and most likely unaware 
of reasonably cautious PCs.
The bugbears are led by Gothrolg, a powerful half-umbral 
dragon bugbear who is currently out of view on the far side 
of the mound but quickly flies up on top of the black stones 
at the first sign of trouble.
 Gothrolg is a sadistic creature who delights in torture, 
pain, and suffering and has a taste for flesh, both living 
and undead. The half-umbral dragon bugbear recently 
recovered the shard, which the slain black behir had been 
guarding, and is unsure what to do with it. He is more than 
willing to fight to keep the shard, and will happily sacrifice 
the bugbears in the process. However, Gothrolg has no 
particular allegiance to the Dusk Queen and is unwilling 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 11 ---
10
10
GOTHROLG
Medium humanoid (goblinoid), chaotic evil
Armor Class 16 (+1 leather armor, +1 ring of protection)
Hit Points 65 (10d8 + 20)
Speed 30 ft., fly 60 ft.
STR 	
DEX 	
CON 	
INT 	
WIS 	
CHA
19 (+4) 	
14 (+2) 	 16 (+3) 	
11 (+0) 	
12 (+1) 	
11 (+0)
Skills Intimidation +3, Stealth +5, Survival +3
Damage Resistances necrotic
Senses blindsight 10 ft., darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 
14
Languages Common, Draconic, Goblin
Challenge 5 (1800 XP)
Brute. A melee weapon deals one extra die of its damage 
when Gothrolg hits with it (included in the attack).
Indominable Heart. Gothrolg has advantage on saving 
throws against being charmed, frightened, paralyzed, 
poisoned, stunned, or put to sleep.
Surprise Attack. If Gothrolg surprises a creature and hits it 
with an attack during the first round of combat, the target 
takes an extra 7 (2d6) damage from the attack.
ACTIONS
Multiattack. Gothrolg makes two melee attacks.
Morningstar. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 13 (2d8 + 4) piercing damage.
Javelin. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 
ft. or range 30/120 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) piercing 
damage in melee or 7 (1d6 + 4) piercing damage at range.
Necrotic Breath (Recharge 5–6): Gothrolg exhales a burst 
of withering energy in a 15-foot cone. Each creature in that 
area must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw, taking 24 
(7d6) necrotic damage on a failed save, or half as much 
damage on a successful one.
Bugbears (9): AC 16, hp 27 ea., +4 hit, 11 (2d8 + 2) 
piercing melee dmg or 9 (2d6 + 2) piercing ranged dmg, 
surprise attack, see SRD.
TREASURE
Gothlorg wears a suit of +1 leather armor and a +1 ring of 
protection.
Searching the mound of black stones requires a successful 
DC 12 Intelligence (Investigation) check. Buried within the 
mound are three broken potion bottles (empty), a ring of 
cold energy resistance, and a wand of secrets.
E. MESSAGE FROM THE SHADOWS
A hauntingly beautiful woman silently emerges from 
the shadows and stares at you with cold, dark eyes. The 
surrounding shadows seem to pool around her, and power 
pours from her body. She smiles, but her dark eyes remain 
cold as she speaks to you in soft, soothing tones. 
	 “You are gathering my shards for me, and for that I am 
eternally grateful. Once you have all five, I trust you will 
bring them to me at once. If you do, I will reward each of you 
handsomely. I assure you, the rumors about me have been 
greatly exaggerated; I am not the monster many believe me 
to be. Bring me the shards and I shall be pleased. Keep them 
for yourself, though . . .” 
	 The woman’s voice trails off and her cold eyes narrow 
menacingly.
The Dusk Queen is using major image in an attempt to 
manipulate the PCs. Once the message has been delivered, 
the image continues to regard the PCs quietly for a few 
moments before slowly fading away.
GM NOTE
Although keyed to a specific location on the map, this 
encounter can actually occur at any point along the path, 
after the PCs have acquired two or three of the shards.
Ideally, this should take place during a lull in the action 
and should be used for maximum dramatic effect. 
F. THE HANGING TREE
XP Threshold: 7,600
A lone, twisted tree rises from a small hill ahead of you. 
Skeletons, some with their hands still bound behind their 
backs, hang from strong branches high up in the tree. The 
branches creak as the skeletons twist and sway in the wind. 
By all appearances, these gruesome remains have been here 
for a very long time. 
	 High up on the trunk, a mirror shard is deeply embedded 
in a thick branch.
This was once known as the Hanging Tree. The skeletons 
belonged to people who displeased the Dusk Queen during 
her reign. Unless the PCs possess magical means to reach 
the shard, they will likely need to climb to reach it (DC 12 
Strength [Athletics] or Dexterity [Acrobatics] check).
ENVIRONMENT
The shard is embedded in a thick branch 40 feet up the tree. 
A PC who reaches the shard may attempt to pry it loose 
(DC 10 Dexterity check) or forcibly yank it free (DC 10 
Strength check). Failing either of these checks by 3 or more 
requires a DC 12 Dexterity saving throw to avoid being 
cut by the shard for 3 (1d6) slashing damage. Failing either 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 12 ---
11
11
check by 10 or more requires a successful DC 17 Dexterity 
saving throw to avoid falling from the tree for 14 (4d6) 
bludgeoning damage.
 The shard is too firmly embedded in the tree for 
mage hand or similar magic to pull free.
CREATURES
A specter and two wraiths guard the shard. 
They swarm out suddenly from the surrounding 
shadows and attack as soon as the shard is 
disturbed.
Specter: AC 12, hp 22, +4 hit, 10 (3d6) 
necrotic dmg, incorporeal movement, 
sunlight sensitivity, life drain, see SRD.
Wraiths (2): AC 13, hp 67 ea., +6 
hit, 21 (4d8 + 3) necrotic dmg, 
incorporeal movement, sunlight 
sensitivity, life drain, create specter, 
see SRD.
TREASURE
A ring of the ram is on one of the 
skeleton’s hands.
G. THE PIT OF SHADOWS
XP Threshold: 6,200
An oblong pit yawns like a jagged 
wound in the ground in front of you. 
It is perhaps 20 feet across and at 
least twice that in length. A dense, 
almost palpable blackness seems to 
rise up from the depths of the pit.
ENVIRONMENT 
It is particularly difficult to see 
very far into the pit. PCs without 
darkvision cannot see more than 
a few feet. Even PCs who can see 
in the darkness find they are able to 
penetrate the thick blackness only half as far 
as normal.
 A DC 10 Wisdom (Perception) check reveals a partially 
worn and eroded set of ancient stone steps cut into the sides 
of the pit. They wind their way precariously downward into 
the darkness before eventually ending at a stone ledge 60 
feet below that juts out abruptly. The steps are extremely 
steep and uneven, making them difficult to navigate. PCs 
failing a DC 7 Strength (Athletics) or Dexterity (Acrobatics) 
check fall from the steps and crash to the stone ledge below, 
taking 10 (3d6) bludgeoning damage.
 If the PCs take precautionary measures, such as using 
rope or other climbing gear, the checks are made with 
advantage.
GM NOTE
Although characters falling from the steps should normally 
have a chance of missing the stone ledge and falling 
downward into the swirling darkness, doing so would 
certainly take the character out of the adventure! Therefore, 
be sure to play up the dramatic impact of a falling character 
barely managing to grab hold of something as he crashes 
onto the ledge and narrowly avoids falling down into the 
swirling darkness below! 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 13 ---
12
12
THE PIT
Once the PCs are close enough to the stone ledge, read:
Peering over the edge of the stone outcrop, you see a swirling 
miasma of inky blackness some 50 feet farther down. This 
strange vortex of darkness resembles impossibly dense storm 
clouds which completely fill the remainder of the deep pit.  
This mysterious, swirling cloud of darkness is in fact a 
portal to the Plane of Shadow. Although specific details 
regarding what lies beyond are well beyond the scope of 
this adventure, the GM is free utilize this gate at a later 
point in the campaign if she wishes.
Once on the ledge, the PCs discover a cave opening. Like 
the rest of the shadowy darkness within the pit, visibility is 
difficult even for those with darkvision.
The cave opening leads directly into a natural cavern 60 feet 
across and 40 feet high. At the center of the cavern, narrow 
steps leading up to a stone ring are just barely discernible.
ENVIRONMENT
The stone ring is approximately two feet high, 10 feet in 
diameter and encloses a pool of dark water 15 feet deep. A 
DC 12 Wisdom (Perception) check reveals a glint from a 
mirror shard that lies at the very bottom of the pool.
CREATURE
Ilmareth, an elder shadow drake, dwells here with his two 
“pet” shadows. Ilmareth, who had been the Dusk Queen’s 
fiercely devoted mount, was devastated and confused by 
her sudden disappearance. He retreated here to his lair 
and sank into a long, deep depression. Ilmareth knew of 
the shard in his pool, but until the recent whispers of his 
Queen’s return, he was unsure what to do with it.
 As soon as anyone touches or otherwise interacts with 
the water, read:
A large dragon-like creature with black scales and shadowy 
wings emerges suddenly from the darkness. The creature’s red 
eyes glare at you as it speaks in a deep, monotone voice: 
	 “I know why you have come, but I am a loyal servant of 
the queen. You’ll not take this shard; the only thing I will give 
you is DEATH!”
Ilmareth attacks with reckless abandon to protect his shard, 
as do the two shadows that share his cave with him. If the 
battle goes particularly poorly for him, he attempts to escape 
the cave with the shard and retreat to the Dusk Tower.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 14 ---
13
13
ILMARETH, ELDER SHADOW DRAKE
Large dragon, chaotic evil
Armor Class 16 (natural armor)
Hit Points 114 (12d10 + 48)
Speed 20 ft., fly 60 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
22 (+6)	
13 (+1)	 18 (+4)	
8 (–1)	
9 (–1)	
13 (+1)
Saving Throws Dex +4, Con +7, Cha +4
Skills Perception +5, Stealth +7
Damage Vulnerabilities radiant
Damage Immunities cold
Condition Immunities paralyzed, unconscious
Senses darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 15
Languages Common, Draconic, Umbral
Challenge 7 (2,900 XP)
Shadow Blend. In areas of dim light or darkness, an elder 
shadow drake is treated as invisible. Artificial illumination, 
such as a lantern or a light or continual flame spell, does 
not negate this ability; nothing less than true sunlight or a 
daylight spell does. The drake cannot use its Speed Surge or 
its Stygian Breath while invisible. An elder shadow drake can 
suspend or resume this ability at will, so long as the drake is 
in dim light or darkness.
Shadow Jump (3/Day). An elder shadow drake can travel 
between shadows as if by means of a dimension door spell. 
This magical transport must begin and end in an area of 
dim light or darkness, and the distance must be no more 
than 60 feet.
Speed Surge (3/Day). The elder shadow drake takes one 
additional move action on its turn. It can use only one speed 
surge per round.
ACTIONS
Multiattack. The drake makes one bite attack and one tail 
slap attack.
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. 
Hit: 22 (3d10 + 6) piercing damage.
Tail Slap. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 10 ft., one 
target. Hit: 19 (3d8 + 6) bludgeoning damage.
Stygian Breath (Recharge 5–6). The elder shadow drake 
exhales a ball of black liquid that travels up to 60 feet 
before exploding into a cloud of frigid black mist with a 
20-foot radius. Each creature in that sphere takes 42 (12d6) 
cold damage, or half damage with a successful DC 15 
Constitution saving throw. Within the area of effect, the mist 
snuffs out nonmagical light sources and dispels magical 
light of 1st level or lower.
Shadows (2): AC 12, hp 16 ea., +4 hit, 9 (2d6 + 2) 
necrotic dmg., amorphous, shadow stealth, sunlight 
weakness, Strength drain, see SRD.
TREASURE
A bead of force, a slightly rusted mace of disruption with the 
word “Nanroc” faintly carved into the head, and 120 gp can 
be found at the bottom of the well.
The Queen of Shadows
Once the PCs have all five shards, they must confront the 
Dusk Queen, making their way to the clearing near the 
center of the forest and infiltrating the Dusk Tower itself.
THE DUSK QUEEN’S TOWER
When the characters approach the tower, read:
The tower appears to be made of smooth black stone. There 
are no windows and only a single door. The tower is clearly 
in disrepair; bits of the stone have crumbled away and 
cracks run like spider webs across its surface. Vines snake up 
the outside, as if trying to choke the life from the tower or 
perhaps pull it to the ground.
A single ornate door, crafted of sturdy darkwood and 
reinforced with black iron, is the tower’s only entrance. 
Although the door is not physically locked, it is warded 
with arcane lock and protected by a glyph of warding (7d8 
cold damage, DC 18 Dexterity saving throw for half).
 The darkwood door is three inches thick, has AC 15, 18 
hit points, and damage threshold 5. 
SHADOWY NEGOTIATIONS
Once the PCs enter the tower, read:
A single large chamber opens before you. There is no ceiling 
overhead; the wooden floors of the upper levels appear to 
have crumbled away long ago. A massive chandelier lies 
twisted and broken in the middle of the floor, apparently 
having crashed to the floor when the ceiling above rotted 
away. Thick shadows fill the upper reaches of the tower. 
	 Directly across from you, on a black marble dais at the far 
end of the chamber, sits an ornate black throne. 
	 To either side of the throne, once-majestic stairs climb the 
walls, reaching as high as a man’s head before crumbling 
away. 
	 To the right of the throne, a large oval mirror in a thick 
darkwood frame hangs on the stone wall. The frame is carved 
with delicate runes, many of which look chipped or defaced. 
The glass in the mirror has clearly been shattered; thousands 
of tiny cracks create a chaotic spider-web pattern across its 
surface. In five distinct spots, large pieces of the glass, each 
about the size of a man’s hand, are missing entirely.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 15 ---
14
14
ENVIRONMENT
A large tapestry depicts the Dusk Queen riding her 
shadow drake mount, Ilmareth, against the backdrop of 
a stormy night sky. Well-worn, the tapestry is of superior 
workmanship and worth at least 300 gp to the right buyer.
DEVELOPMENT
The Dusk Queen is invisible and flying overhead in the 
shadowy, upper portion of the chamber. Once the PCs enter 
the throne room, she addresses them in a soothing and 
friendly tone, using the strange acoustics of the tower to 
throw her voice so she does not give away her position: 
Greetings, my friends. I trust you have retrieved all of my 
mirror shards for me? Please kindly place them on my throne 
and then step back. Once you have done so, I will reward you 
handsomely as promised. I am, after all, a just queen, true to 
my word.
The Dusk Queen focuses all of her charisma and powers 
of persuasion to cajole the shards from the PCs. If they 
foolishly obey her command, Aazael attacks them while she 
swoops in to claim her precious shards and tries to repair 
her mirror. She can replace one shard each round.
If she is unsuccessful in convincing the heroes to obey, 
the Dusk Queen quickly becomes furious and addresses the 
PCs in a menacing voice: 
“FOOLS! If you will not listen to reason, then I will pluck the 
shards from your cold, lifeless hands!” 
	 As the Dusk Queen’s angry words echo throughout the 
chamber, an ominous-looking warrior clad in black armor 
and wielding a glowing black glaive appears out of the 
shadows. Lifeless eyes burn from inside the dread knight’s 
hollow skull.
BATTLE FOR THE SHARDS
XP Threshold: 10,800
The Dusk Queen attacks relentlessly from above, using 
every means at her disposal to destroy the PCs and take the 
shards while the Dread Knight pummels them in combat 
on the ground.
ENVIRONMENT
Because there are no longer any upper floors, the inside of 
the tower is essentially a shadowy, 80-foot-high shaft.
GM NOTE
A PC with all five shards attempting to use the sacred flame 
power against the Dusk Queen or her dread knight must 
succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw each time in 
order to force the shards to comply. 
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 16 ---
15
15
AAZAEL, THE DREAD KNIGHT
Medium undead, chaotic evil
Armor Class 20 (+1 plate, +1 ring of protection)
Hit Points 85 (9d8 + 45)
Speed 30 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
20 (+5)	
11 (+0)	 20 (+5)	
12 (+1)	
16 (+3)	
18 (+4)
Damage Resistances bludgeoning, piercing and slashing 
from nonmagical weapons
Damage Immunities necrotic, poison
Condition Immunities charmed, exhaustion, frightened, 
poisoned
Senses darkvision 60 ft., 
passive Perception 13
Languages Abyssal, Common
Challenge 6 (2,300 XP)
Special Equipment. Aazael has +1 plate, a 
+1 ring of protection, and a +1 glaive.
Fear Aura: Any creature hostile 
to Aazael that starts its turn 
within 20 feet of the dread 
knight must make a 
DC 15 Wisdom saving 
throw, unless Aazael 
is incapacitated. On 
a failed save, the creature 
is frightened until the start of 
its next turn. If a creature’s 
saving throw is successful, the 
creature is immune to Aazael’s 
fear aura for the next 24 hours.
Magic Resistance: Aazael has advantage 
on saving throws against spells and other 
magical effects.
Rejuvenation: One day after Aazael is 
destroyed, his armor begins to rebuild the undead 
body trapped within. This process takes 1d10 days—if the 
body is destroyed before that time passes, the armor merely 
starts the process anew. After this time has elapsed, Aazael 
wakens fully healed (see sidebar for more information).
Spellcasting. Aazael is a 9th-level spellcaster. His spellcasting 
ability is Charisma (spell save DC 15, +7 to hit with spell 
attacks). He has the following paladin spells prepared:
1st level (4 slots): command, compelled duel
2nd level (3 slots): aid, magic weapon
3rd level (2 slots): dispel magic, elemental weapon
Undead Nature. Aazael doesn’t require air, food, drink, or 
sleep.
ACTIONS
Multiattack. Aazael makes two melee attacks.
+1 Glaive. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 10 ft., one 
target. Hit: 11 (1d10 + 6) slashing damage plus 7 (2d6) 
necrotic damage.
Summon Pet (1/Day): Aazael may summon Annominc, 
his fiendish black panther servant (see sidebar), which 
immediately appears adjacent to him. Annominc remains for 
1 hour, until it or Aazael dies, or until Aazael dismisses it as 
an action.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 17 ---
16
16
AAZAEL’S DREAD KNIGHT ARMOR
Aazael’s armor is a preternatural second skin fused over 
the desiccated flesh and scarred bones locked within; the 
undead warrior’s life force lingers on in his armor, much 
like a lich’s essence is bound within a phylactery. Unless 
every part of Aazael’s armor is ruined along with his body, 
Aazael will rejuvenate after it is destroyed.
 Aazael’s suit of deep black plate armor has AC 19, 45 hit 
points, and damage threshold 10. Merely breaking Aazael’s 
armor does not destroy it; it must be ruined, such as by 
being disintegrated, exposed to the Positive Energy Plane, 
or thrown into the heart of a volcano.
THE DUSK QUEEN
A hauntingly beautiful woman stares at you with cold, dark 
eyes. Shadows pool around her and power can almost be 
felt emanating from her body.
Medium fey, neutral evil
Armor Class 16 (mage armor*, +1 ring of protection)
Hit Points 77 (14d8 + 14)
Speed 40 ft., fly 60 ft.*
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
9 (–1) 	
15 (+2) 	
12 (+1) 	
20 (+5) 	
20 (+5) 	
21 (+5)
Saving Throws Dex +5, Con +4, Cha +8
Skills Perception +8, Stealth +5
Damage Resistances fire*, lightning*, bludgeoning, piercing, 
and slashing damage from nonmagical weapons that aren’t 
cold iron
Condition Immunities charmed, frightened, exhaustion
Senses blindsight 10 ft., darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 
18
Languages Common, Elvish, Giant, Sylvan
Challenge 7 (2,900 XP)
Special Equipment. The Dusk Queen has scrolls of darkness 
(x2), dominate person, freedom of movement*, harm, mage 
armor*, protection from energy (×2)*, see invisibility, shield, 
slow, stoneskin, and true seeing*, a handy haversack, and a 
ring of feather falling (those marked with * indicate spells 
cast before combat begins).
Fey Ancestry. The Dusk Queen has advantage on saving 
throws against being charmed, and magic can’t put her to 
sleep.
Innate Spellcasting. The Dusk Queen’s innate spellcasting 
ability is Charisma. She can cast the following spells innately, 
requiring no material components.
3/day: misty step (when in shadows, dim light, or darkness)
Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the Dusk Queen has 
disadvantage on attack rolls and on Wisdom (Perception) 
checks that rely on sight.
Arcane Spellcasting. The Dusk Queen is a 7th-level 
spellcaster. Her arcane spellcasting ability is Intelligence 
(spell save DC 16, +8 to hit with spell attacks). She knows 
the following wizard spells:
Cantrips (4 slots): chill touch, control flames, minor illusion, 
ray of frost
1st level (4 slots): color spray, ray of sickness, protection from 
evil and good, witch bolt
2nd level (3 slots): blindness/deafness, cloud of daggers, 
enlarge/reduce
3rd level (3 slots): counterspell, dispel magic, major image
4th level (1 slot): phantasmal killer
Divine Spellcasting. The Dusk Queen is a 7th-level divine 
spellcaster. Her divine spellcasting ability is Wisdom (spell 
save DC 16, +8 to hit with spell attacks). She knows the 
following cleric spells:
Cantrips (4 slots): guidance, mending, resistance
1st level (4 slots): bane, guiding bolt, sanctuary
ANNOMINC
Medium fiend (beast), chaotic evil
Armor Class 14
Hit Points 45 (10d8)
Speed 50 ft., climb 40 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
16 (+3)	
19 (+4)	 10 (+0)	
8 (–1)	
14 (+2)	
7 (–2)
Damage Resistances cold and fire
Skills Perception +4, Stealth +8
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 14
Languages —
Challenge 1 (200 XP)
Keen Smell: The panther has advantage on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks that rely on smell.
Pounce: If the panther moves at least 20 feet straight 
toward a creature and then hits it with a claw attack on 
the same turn, that target must succeed on a DC 12 
Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. If the target 
is prone, the panther can make one bite attack against it 
as a bonus action.
ACTIONS
Bite: Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) piercing damage plus 4 (1d8) 
necrotic damage.
Claw: Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 5 (1d4 + 3) slashing damage plus 3 (1d6) 
necrotic damage.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 18 ---
17
17
2nd level (3 slots): enhance ability, hold person, silence
3rd level (3 slots): dispel magic, meld into stone, protection 
from energy
4th level (1 slot): stone shape
Traveler in Darkness. The Dusk Queen has advantage on 
Intelligence (Arcana) checks made to know about shadow 
roads and shadow magic spells or items.
ACTIONS
Dagger: Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 4 (1d4 + 2) piercing damage.. 
TACTICS
The Dusk Queen has been monitoring the party’s progress 
for some time and has had plenty of time to prepare for 
their arrival. She uses her large supply of scrolls to cast 
fly, greater invisibility, freedom of movement, globe of 
invulnerability, mage armor, protection from energy (fire), 
protection from energy (lightning), and true seeing (these 
additional boons are noted in the statistics block above 
and marked with an * where applicable). During combat, 
The Dusk Queen attacks with spells while remaining well 
hidden and protected in the shadows high overhead for as 
long as possible.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 19 ---
18
18
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 20 ---
19
19
The Shadow Gr imoir e
Wondrous item, legendary  
(requires attunement by an arcane spellcaster)
This thick tome is covered in inky black nightmare hide leather 
and bound with iron overlaid with silver. Delicate silver runes 
are inlaid in a circular pattern across the cover. The pages 
within are written in silver ink on jet-black paper. The book is 
extremely well-crafted, durable and waterproof, and measures 
just over 12 inches tall, 9 inches wide and 1 inch thick.
The Dusk Queen received the Shadow Grimoire as a gift 
while she still dwelt in the fey realm of the Winter Court.
Warded. The Shadow Grimoire is protected by a glyph of 
warding. The glyph is triggered by the Grimoire itself 
if it feels threatened. The glyph causes explosive runes 
to erupt in a 20-foot-radius sphere. Each creature in 
the area must make a DC 16 Dexterity saving throw. A 
creature takes 45 (10d8) cold damage on a failed save, or 
half as much damage on a successful one.
Bookish. The Shadow Grimoire can open and close itself 
and flip instantly to any page it desires, including the 
current scroll page (see below) as an action. A DC 30 
Strength check is required to close it, pry it open, or tear 
out a page against its will.
Scroll Page. The Shadow Grimoire always contains one 
spell, from among all the spells transcribed within it, that 
the owner may cast directly from the book as if it were a 
scroll. Once the spell is cast, another spell (other than the 
one just cast) randomly becomes the next spell that can 
be cast directly from the book. The owner must spend 
an action to flip pages and find the new scroll-page spell. 
Once found, the scroll page can be marked for future 
reference. The owner does not need to provide a material 
component if it costs under 100 gp, and casting the spell 
does not remove it from the spellbook. The Grimoire 
does not have the ability to cast this spell itself.
Innate Spellcasting. The Shadow Grimoire’s innate 
spellcasting ability is Charisma. It can cast the following 
spells innately, requiring no material components:
3/day: misty step (when in shadows, dim light, or 
darkness only)
Shadow Knowledge. The Shadow Grimoire’s secrets cling 
to its owner’s mind like the Shadowfell itself. As long 
as the owner is in possession of the Grimoire, he gains 
advantage on all skill checks pertaining to shadow or 
darkness magic or the geography, history, and denizens 
of the Plane of Shadow.
Sunlight Vulnerability. The Shadow Grimoire must remain 
cloaked in shadow or the darkness of night at all times. 
The spellbook is immediately damaged if exposed to 
direct sunlight (not merely a daylight spell) for even an 
instant. For every minute the Shadow Grimoire is exposed 
to sunlight, it takes 4 (1d8) radiant damage. If this damage 
exceeds the book’s total hit points, the Shadow Grimoire 
bursts into gray flame and is forever destroyed.
Adventur e Conclusion
Replacing the five shards into the empty spots on the 
broken mirror is simple enough, assuming the PCs still 
wish to. When the first shard is replaced, the mirror’s frame 
begins to glow slightly but the thousands of spidery cracks 
remain. Once the final shard is placed into the mirror, 
all five immediately fuse into the rest of the glass and the 
cracks magically repair themselves, leaving a perfectly 
smooth and whole mirror once again! The mirror is firmly 
attached to the wall with powerful magic and cannot be 
removed by anything short of a wish or similar magic.
 If repaired, the mirror allows the PCs to step into the glass 
and magically transport themselves away from the tower, 
as via teleport. Without the various command words and 
intimate knowledge of how the mirror works, however, the 
PCs will be unable to use any of the mirror’s other powers.
 Clever PCs may realize there is little compelling reason to 
repair the mirror at all, now that the Dusk Queen has been 
destroyed, and might instead decide to keep the five mirror 
shards. If so, the shards keep their magical qualities. What’s 
more, if the Dusk Queen is dead, the shards no longer 
possess the queen’s life essence and therefore no longer 
require a Wisdom saving throw when using their sacred 
flame ability. The PCs will have acquired a unique and 
powerful treasure indeed!
TREASURE
In addition to the shards and the considerable magic 
possessed by the Dusk Queen and her Dread Knight, a 
successful DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check reveals a 
compartment concealed in the base of the throne. Hidden 
inside is the Shadow Grimoire.
THE TOWER’S FATE
Once the PCs have had time to catch their breath and 
search the throne room, read the following:
A tremor ripples across the floor of the throne room. Moments 
later, an even stronger tremor rocks the entire tower. Dust 
and bits of stone begin to fall as large cracks appear on the 
stone walls! The shaking quickly grows more and more violent, 
making it abundantly clear the tower is in danger of collapse!
If the PCs move quickly, they are able to get out in time 
and move to a safe distance just as the entire tower crashes 
to the ground in a cacophonous and deafening roar, 
leaving nothing but a massive pile of stone, rubble, and 
absolute destruction!
 If, for some reason, the PCs choose to remain inside the 
tower, they most certainly meet with the same grim fate.
GM NOTE: 
The tower’s collapse utterly destroys the Dusk Queen’s 
mirror. The force of the collapse is not powerful enough 
to ruin Aazael’s armor, however, which means the dread 
knight begins to rejuvenate 1d10 days later, while still 
buried under the rubble.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 21 ---
20
20
Spells. The Shadow Grimoire currently contains the 
following spells (spells marked with a† can be found in the 
Midgard Heroes Handbook by Kobold Press):
5th level: cone of cold, dark dementing†, dream, shadow 
realm gateway†
4th level: black hand†, black tentacles, night terrors†, 
phantasmal killer, shadow monsters†
3rd level: call shadow mastiff†, feign death, fly, legion†, 
shadow trove†, shield of star and shadow†
2nd level: blindness/deafness, dark path†, darkbolt†, 
darkness, darkvision, negative image†, shadow puppets†, 
slither†
1st level: black ribbons†, cloak of shadow†, cloying 
darkness†, color spray, ray of enfeeblement, shadow 
armor†, shadow hands†
Cantrips: chill touch, claws of darkness†, douse light†, 
shadow bite†, shadow blindness†, silhouette†
Sentience. The Shadow Grimoire is a sentient neutral 
book with an Intelligence of 16, a Wisdom of 14, and 
a Charisma of 14. It has hearing and darkvision out 
to a range of 30 feet. The book can speak, read, and 
write Common, Elven, Sylvan, and Umbral, and can 
communicate with its owner telepathically.
Personality. The book is intelligent, haughty, and extremely 
proud of its abilities and its unique nature. Once it 
decides to reveal its sentience and awareness, it expects 
to be treated in every possible way like a highly regarded 
equal. As long as the Grimoire is confident its owner 
shares its outlook and goals, it reveals its abilities and 
complies with most requests. 
	 The Shadow Grimoire is often mysterious, cryptic, and 
prone to falling silent for long periods of time without 
cause or explanation. If it feels it is being mistreated or 
not shown the proper level of respect, the Grimoire snaps 
itself shut and refuses to open or use any of its abilities. If 
such behaviors persist, it attempts to hide itself or escape 
from its owner using misty step. It even shouts for help 
when the party encounters someone the Grimoire feels 
would be a more suitable owner. 
	 The Grimoire has little interest in good or evil, law 
or chaos. Its primary interests lie in magic, specifically 
shadow and darkness magic or anything pertaining to the 
Shadowfell. The Grimoire is single-minded in its desire 
to learn all it can about shadow magic and it expects its 
owner to share this desire. It insists that its owner prepare 
a minimum of three shadow or darkness spells from 
among the highest level spells the owner can cast each 
day. If the owner refuses, the book finds a more suitable 
owner by whatever means necessary.
GM NOTE
The value of the Shadow Grimoire may seem high for 
characters at this level. However, it is important to 
understand that a living spellbook is much easier to manage 
than other magical items of a similar rarity. For example, 
PCs cannot memorize spells beyond what their caster level 
allows. Also, the Shadow Grimoire is the final authority on if 
and when its powers are used. The book typically acquiesces 
to the owner’s wishes, but that is hardly absolute—the 
Grimoire always retains full control of its abilities.
 Essentially, the GM should treat the Shadow Grimoire as 
an NPC as well as a magic item, which makes it an excellent 
tool for dispensing special clues and other campaign 
information that might not be easy to convey otherwise. 
The Grimoire can be a teacher and mentor as well as a 
mysterious source of secrets and knowledge.
If a PC decides to keep the Grimoire, the GM should 
observe and cultivate the symbiotic relationship between 
them carefully. While a living book retains control 
over its special abilities, it still relies on its owner to 
carry it around so it can learn and influence events.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 22 ---
AN ADVENTURE 
ON EVERY PAGE
Tome of Beasts brings more than 400 new foes  
to 5th Edition, from vicious dungeon vermin  
to earth-shaking personifications of evil!
Every entry comes with full-color art by  
some of the top talent in the industry.  
Here, Game Masters will find:
• Clockwork creatures
• Drakes and dragons
• Devils and arch-devils
• Dangerous flavors of the fey
...and much more! These monsters are ready to  
wreak havoc in any fantasy setting, from  
fan-favorite realms to worlds of your own creation.
Flip to any page in the Tome of Beasts and you’ll  
find an encounter that players won’t soon forget...
Available now from www.KoboldPress.com  
and better game stores everywhere!
©2016 Open Design. Kobold Press logo is a trademark 
of Open Design. 5E bullet is used by kind permission 
of Sasquatch Game Studio.
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 23 ---
Midgard and the Kobold Press logo are trademarks of Open Design. 
BY DAN DILLON, RICHARD GREEN, AND CHRIS HARRIS
TM
HEROES HANDBOOK
Venture Forth in A  
Dark World of Deep Magic
The Midgard Campaign Setting is here! Now all it needs is heroes—to discover its wonders, battle its horrors, 
and forge new legends in a dark world of deep magic for 5th Edition Fantasy. 
MIDGARD WORLDBOOK 
Inspired by the myths and folklore of Eastern and 
Central Europe! In the north the giants prepare for 
Ragnarok, while the goblins in the west grow restless and 
the shadow of the vampire princes falls across the east. 
The World Serpent is stirring, and not even all-knowing 
Baba Yaga can say what will happen next…
MIDGARD HEROES HANDBOOK 
Everything you need to create a hero ready for 
adventure in Midgard, with details on races, 
variants, archetypes, and backgrounds—plus new 
cleric domains, weapons and equipment, and 
Deep Magic spells and traditions.
BY WOLFGANG BAUR AND RICHARD GREEN
WORLDBOOK
TM
MIDGARD WORLDB
TM
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 24 ---
©2016 Open Design. Kobold Press logo is a trademark 
of Open Design. 5E bullet is used by kind permission 
of Sasquatch Game Studio.
Magic Knows a  
Thousand Roads
There’s more to spellcasting than flying and fireballs! The Deep Magic series  
gives you access to entire new schools of magic, including:
• Clockwork Magic: Your hand on the levers of the universe!
• Rune Magic: The ancient magic of giants and the North!
• Blood Magic: Turning life’s blood into raw magical power!
• Angelic Wardings: Signs and seals to repel evil!
• Void Magic: Mysteries from the outer darkness!
• Battle Magic: Martial spells of wrath and ruin!
• …and more! 
Each installment comes with new spells, new archetypes, and new school-specific 
powers. Go beyond the ordinary, and unlock the power of Deep Magic!
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 25 ---
24
24
OPEN GAME LICENSE Version 1.0a
The following text is the property of Wizards of the Coast, Inc. 
and is Copyright 2000 Wizards of the Coast, Inc (“Wizards”). All 
Rights Reserved.
 1. Definitions: (a)”Contributors” means the copyright and/
or trademark owners who have contributed Open Game 
Content; (b)”Derivative Material” means copyrighted material 
including derivative works and translations (including into 
other computer languages), potation, modification, correction, 
addition, extension, upgrade, improvement, compilation, 
abridgment or other form in which an existing work may be 
recast, transformed or adapted; (c) “Distribute” means to 
reproduce, license, rent, lease, sell, broadcast, publicly display, 
transmit or otherwise distribute; (d)”Open Game Content” 
means the game mechanic and includes the methods, 
procedures, processes and routines to the extent such content 
does not embody the Product Identity and is an enhancement 
over the prior art and any additional content clearly identified 
as Open Game Content by the Contributor, and means any 
work covered by this License, including translations and 
derivative works under copyright law, but specifically excludes 
Product Identity. (e) “Product Identity” means product and 
product line names, logos and identifying marks including 
trade dress; artifacts; creatures characters; stories, storylines, 
plots, thematic elements, dialogue, incidents, language, 
artwork, symbols, designs, depictions, likenesses, formats, 
poses, concepts, themes and graphic, photographic and other 
visual or audio representations; names and descriptions 
of characters, spells, enchantments, personalities, teams, 
personas, likenesses and special abilities; places, locations, 
environments, creatures, equipment, magical or supernatural 
abilities or effects, logos, symbols, or graphic designs; and any 
other trademark or registered trademark clearly identified 
as Product identity by the owner of the Product Identity, 
and which specifically excludes the Open Game Content; (f) 
“Trademark” means the logos, names, mark, sign, motto, 
designs that are used by a Contributor to identify itself or its 
products or the associated products contributed to the Open 
Game License by the Contributor (g) “Use”, “Used” or “Using” 
means to use, Distribute, copy, edit, format, modify, translate 
and otherwise create Derivative Material of Open Game 
Content. (h) “You” or “Your” means the licensee in terms of 
this agreement.
 2. The License: This License applies to any Open Game 
Content that contains a notice indicating that the Open Game 
Content may only be Used under and in terms of this License. 
You must affix such a notice to any Open Game Content that 
you Use. No terms may be added to or subtracted from this 
License except as described by the License itself. No other 
terms or conditions may be applied to any Open Game Content 
distributed using this License.
 3.Offer and Acceptance: By Using the Open Game Content 
You indicate Your acceptance of the terms of this License.
 4. Grant and Consideration: In consideration for agreeing 
to use this License, the Contributors grant You a perpetual, 
worldwide, royalty-free, non-exclusive license with the exact 
terms of this License to Use, the Open Game Content.
 5.Representation of Authority to Contribute: If You are 
contributing original material as Open Game Content, You 
represent that Your Contributions are Your original creation 
and/or You have sufficient rights to grant the rights conveyed 
by this License.
 6.Notice of License Copyright: You must update the 
COPYRIGHT NOTICE portion of this License to include the exact 
text of the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any Open Game Content You 
are copying, modifying or distributing, and You must add the 
title, the copyright date, and the copyright holder’s name to 
the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any original Open Game Content 
you Distribute.
 7. Use of Product Identity: You agree not to Use any Product 
Identity, including as an indication as to compatibility, except as 
expressly licensed in another, independent Agreement with the 
owner of each element of that Product Identity. You agree not 
to indicate compatibility or co-adaptability with any Trademark 
or Registered Trademark in conjunction with a work containing 
Open Game Content except as expressly licensed in another, 
independent Agreement with the owner of such Trademark 
or Registered Trademark. The use of any Product Identity in 
Open Game Content does not constitute a challenge to the 
ownership of that Product Identity. The owner of any Product 
Identity used in Open Game Content shall retain all rights, title 
and interest in and to that Product Identity.
 8. Identification: If you distribute Open Game Content You 
must clearly indicate which portions of the work that you are 
distributing are Open Game Content.
 9. Updating the License: Wizards or its designated Agents 
may publish updated versions of this License. You may use 
any authorized version of this License to copy, modify and 
distribute any Open Game Content originally distributed under 
any version of this License.
 10 Copy of this License: You MUST include a copy of this 
License with every copy of the Open Game Content You 
Distribute.
 11. Use of Contributor Credits: You may not market or 
advertise the Open Game Content using the name of any 
Contributor unless You have written permission from the 
Contributor to do so.
 12 Inability to Comply: If it is impossible for You to comply 
with any of the terms of this License with respect to some or 
all of the Open Game Content due to statute, judicial order, 
or governmental regulation then You may not Use any Open 
Game Material so affected.
 13 Termination: This License will terminate automatically if 
You fail to comply with all terms herein and fail to cure such 
breach within 30 days of becoming aware of the breach. All 
sublicenses shall survive the termination of this License.
 14 Reformation: If any provision of this License is held to be 
unenforceable, such provision shall be reformed only to the 
extent necessary to make it enforceable.
 15. COPYRIGHT NOTICE 
	 Open Game License v 1.0a Copyright 2000, Wizards of the 
Coast, Inc.
	 System Reference Document. Copyright 2000, Wizards 
of the Coast, Inc.; Authors Jonathan Tweet, Monte Cook, 
Skip Williams, based on material by E. Gary Gygax and Dave 
Arneson.
	 Midgard Heroes Handbook. © 2018 Open Design. Authors: 
Beth Jones, Thomas Knauss, Ben McFarland, and Stephen 
Rowe.
	 Shadows of the Dusk Queen, © 2018, Open Design LLC; 
Author Marc Radle.  
James Larsen (Order #51905805)

--- PAGE 26 ---
The 
Queen  
      of 
    Shadows
hroughout the land, 
legends of the Dusk Queen 
persist. They speak of a sometimes 
kind, other times cruel, yet always 
mysterious fey queen who ruled 
from her Dusk Tower—a tall 
spire of smooth, dark stone in 
the heart of a great, shadowy 
forest. Perhaps the most 
gripping legends, however, whisper  
of the Dusk Queen’s sudden and 
mysterious disappearance ... and 
her even more mysterious return.
T
PO Box 2811  |  Kirkland WA 98083
www.koboldpress.com
ISBN 978-1-936781-87-4
James Larsen (Order #51905805)