--- PAGE 1 ---
Matthew Mercer + Hannah Rose * James J. Haeck

--- PAGE 2 ---
TALQORE 
CAMPAIGN SETTING 
BOB 
YN

--- PAGE 3 ---
CREDITS 
Exandria created by: Matthew Mercer 
Lead Designers: 
James J. Haeck, Matthew Mercer, 
Hannah Rose 
Additional Design: John Stavropoulos 
Additional Contributions by Critical Role Cast: 
Laura Bailey, Taliesin Jaffe, Ashley Johnson, 
Liam O'Brien, Marisha Ray, Sam Riegel, 
Travis Willingham 
Additional Worldbuilding: Aabria Iyengar 
Managing Editor: Hannah Rose 
Editors: Scott Fitzgerald Gray, Marcie Wood 
Proofreader: Matt Walloch-Key 
Lore Keeper: Dani Carr 
Cultural Consultant: Basheer Ghouse 
Safety Consultant: John Stavropoulos 
Accessibility Consultants: Accessible Games, 
Chris Hopper, Deven Rue 
Layout and Graphic Design: 
Christopher J. De La Rosa, Gordon McAlpin 
Art Directors: James J. Haeck, Hannah Rose 
Producers: James J. Haeck, Hannah Rose, 
Ivan Van Norman 
Cover Illustrator: Genel Jumalon 
Lead Character Illustrator: Lauren Walsh 
Cartographer: Andy Law 
Illustrators: Jonah Baumann, Elliott Berggren, 
Lea Bichimaier, Hunter Bonyun, Allie Briggs, 
Conceptopolis, Clara Daly, Kent Davis, 
Nikki Dawes, Biagio D'Alessandro, 
Stanislav Dikolenko, Isabel Gibney, Anna Grinenko, 
John Anthony di Giovanni, Wesley Griffith, 
Mich Henriquez, Claudia lanniciello, Genel Jumalon, 
Linda Lithén, Adrian Ibarra Lugo, Nguyen Hieu, 
Jessica Nguyen, Ariana Orner, Svetoslav Petrov, 
Kennef Riggles, Aaron J. Riley, Caio Santos, 
Jessica Scates, Elisa Serio, Ameera Sheikh, 
Cyarna Trim, 
Andrey Vasilchenko, Lauren Walsh, 
Azra Wheeler, Zuzanna Wuzyk 
Digital Edition Alt Text: Mysty Vander 
ARRINGTON 
PRESSES” 
Head of Darrington Press: Ivan Van Norman 
Creative Director: Matthew Mercer 
Head of Business Development: Ben Van Der Fluit 
Marketing Manager: Darcy L. Ross 
Playtest Coordinator: Christina Farber 
Director of Retail Partnerships: Brittany Walloch-Key 
Special Thanks: 
CritRoleStats, Ajit George, 
James Introcaso, Arthur Loftis, Sadie Lowry, 
F Wesley Schneider 
Playtesters: Michelle Nguyen Bradley, Dani Carr, 
Adrienne Cho, Shaunette DeTie, 
Dominique Dickey, 
Christina Farber, Matthew Gilbert, Mark Hulmes, 
LaTia Jacquise, Taliesin Jaffe, Matt Walloch-Key, 
Christopher Lockey, Sadie Lowry, Carlos Luna, 
Surena Marie, Stevie Morley, Caroline Pitt, 
Darcy L. Ross, Kyle Shire, Lauren Walsh, 
larcie Wood, Critical Role Community 
Critical Role Team: Stephanie Benjamin, 
Diana Jeanne Calalo, Sarah Marie Campbell, 
Dani Carr, Niki Chi, Adrienne Cho, 
Shaunette DeTie, Nadia Dilbert, Steve Failows, 
Christina Farber, Maxwell James, Will Lamborn, 
Sarah Leeper, Tal Levitas, Christopher Lockey, 
Ed Lopez, Surena Marie, Aaron Monroy, 
, Rachel Romero, 
igh, Kyle Shire, 
Spenser Starke, Jordyn Torrence 
FIRST EDITION CREDITS 
Publisher: Green Ronin Publishing 
Writing and Design: Matthew Mercer and 
‘James Haeck 
Additional Development: Joseph Carriker and 
Steve Kenson 
Editing: Jennifer Lawrence and Evan Sass 
Proofreading: 
Caroline Pitt 
Art Direction and Graphic Design: Hal Mangold 
Copyright © 2021 Darrington Press LLC. All Rights Reserved. All names, logos, characters, likenesses, 
characteristics and elements related thereto included within this work are subject to trademark and copyright 
protection and are owned by Critical Role LLC. No port n of this work may be used or reproduced in any form 
without the prior, written, express permission of the Critical Role LLC. 
Printed in China 
ISBN-13: 978-1-7373725-0-9 
12345678910 
Publisher Contact Information: 
www.darringtonpress.com

--- PAGE 5 ---
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
PREFACE 
CHAPTER 1: WELCOME TO TA 
Lands of Tal’Dorei 
What's in This Book? 
Calendar, Time, and the Cosmo: 
A History of Tal Dore’ 
Myth of Exandria 
Running 
a Tal'Dorei Campaign. 
CHAPTER 2: ALLEGIANCES OF 
Paladin: Oath of the Open Sea. 
TALDOREL 
Sorcerer: Runechil 
Pantheon of Exandria 
Prime Deities... 
Betrayer Gods.. 
Lesser Idols.. 
Factions and Societies. 
Tal'Dorei Council 
Arcana Pansophical 
The Ash: 
Path of the Juggernaut. 
Bard: College of Tragedy. 
Cleric: Blood Domain. 
Cleric: Moon Domain 
46 
Whitestone Rifle Corp: 
48 
Supernatural Blessing: 
Fate-Touched 
Brawler's League 
“50 
Chamber of Whitestone. 
50 
Claret Orders . 
52 
The Clasp . 
53 
: 
: 
Golden Grin. 
"54 
Creating Paventure 
Tal'Dorei Treasures. 
Houses of Kraghamme 
55 
es te 
League of Miracles 
56 
ice 
Tools of the Ashari 
Library of the Cobalt Soul 
Vesiigea of Divergeae 
The Myriad. 
y 
‘ 
ee 
a 
Optional Campaign Rules. 
Wardens of Syngor: 
63 
CHAPTER 
6: ALLIES AND 
CHAPTER 
3: TAL’DOREI 
GAZETTEER 
.....65 
AUVERSARIE OF AUS, 
Ren Coc 
Nonplayer Creatures. 
es 
Adranach.. 
A 
Sierras 
72 
Mooren River Run 
Dividing Plains. 
Cliffkeep Mountains . 
Stormerest Mountain: 
Rifenmist Peninsul 
Verdant Expanse 
Other Lands of Exandria 
CHAPTER 4: CHARACTER OPTIONS 
Playing in a Tal’Dorei Campaign 
Races and Cultures 
Ashari 
Cold Snap Spiri 
Cyclops Stormcaller... 
Demonfeed Spider.. 
Jourrael, the Caedogeist 
Kraghammer Goat Knight 
Magma Landshark 
Plainscow 
Ravagers 
Rivermaw Warriors. 
Vosskyriss Serpentfolk 
Wraithroot Tree 
Vox Machina.. 
INDEX: 
Goblinkin... 
Half-Giants

--- PAGE 6 ---
PREFACE 
Inspiration can come from anywhere: a musician's song, the advice of a close friend, or just the 
trust that another being places in you. In my experience, few things can compare to the surge of 
joy and motivation that being inspired gives. 
Thave often found inspiration in fantasy worlds and books of adventure, mystery, and magic. 
I grew up devouring every novel I was handed, seeking to lose myself 
in the words of another 
mind, channeling the images they evoked in my mind into my sketchbook. But it wasn't until 
I discovered tabletop roleplaying games that I felt truly empowered to create my own worlds, 
places like the ones that I so often found myself lost in. Even better, it let me share all the ideas. 
in my head with my friends, and they could do the same with me. I was spellbound, 
It's been about twenty-five years since my first game. Since then, I've drawn endless inspira- 
tion from the imaginations of my friends and loved ones as we tell heroic stories around a table 
with dice and paper. I've found a circle of friends who share my love of dramatic storytelling, my 
belief that failure in games is just as exciting as success (maybe even more so), and my delight in 
being inspired by moments of improvisational brilliance. It’s still surreal that we found a way to 
share that with the world; Critical Role has become a phenomenon that’s surpassed my 
wildest 
dreams. Over the past few years, we've built the magical world of Exandria together, warts and 
all, and somehow it's become a world that millions of others have engaged with and invested 
their imaginations in. I hope it's inspired you to create your own adventures, stories, and joyful 
memories. Through Vox Machina’s epic tale, the land of Tal’Dorei became a landscape rife with 
intrigue, conflict, and endless possibility..and we wanted to share it with you. 
Years ago, | had an opportunity to bring Tal’Dorei to the page and invite the world to tell their 
‘own stories in Exandria. The thrill of the opportunity was incredible, but the immense pressure 
and fear of failure (given my absolute lack of experience doing something like this) made it a stren- 
uous journey on an incredibly short timeline. I was incredibly blessed to have become friends with 
the immeasurably brilliant James Haeck around that time, and I asked him to join me in this task. 
My good fortune found him agreeing, and with his help and inspiration, it somehow came together. 
With that, a limited run of the Taf'Dorei Campaign Setting went into the world. 
Time has passed, both in our world and within the world of Exandria, Vox Machina’s greatest 
adventures came to a close. Looking two decades later (within Exandria), we embarked on a 
new adventure with the Mighty Nein 
in the land of Wildemount...but Vox Machina and Tal’Dor 
remained deeply dear to my heart. The question arose: what would Tal'Dorei look like these two 
decades later? What changes would have taken place in the recovery following the Chroma Con- 
clave and the ascension of the Whispered One? How would the legendary heroes of Vox Machina 
have adjusted to life after the end of their story? What dangers and threats, both old and new, 
would the next generation of heroes need to rise up against? 
Inspiration struck once more, and now that Critical Role had the means to do so...we needed 
to answer these questions for both ourselves and the numerous Critters who often conjectured 
as we did, “Who is on the Tal Dorei Council?” Well, we can finally answer that! I immediately 
called James Haeck back to the fray, and we were joined this time by the extraordinary mind and 
talents of Hannah Rose to elevate these ideas into something better than I could have hoped. 
Between us, Tal'Dorei was Reborn. We invite you to get lost in this world, learn of its intricacies 
and secrets, and, I hope, be inspired to make this world yours as well. 
Matthew Mercer, 
Game Master of Critical Role

--- PAGE 8 ---
CHAPTER 1 
W 
Tal’Dorei is a land of epic adventure, filled with 
heroes who do great deeds for love, 
for justice, and— 
maybe more often than not—for gold and their own 
egos. Villains are draped in shadow and draw upon 
the power of cruel gods—but they are just as moti- 
vated by love, their own twisted concepts of justice, 
nger for gold, power, and glory. 
Tal’Dorei is a land created by Matthew Mercer to 
introduce his friends to fantasy roleplaying games, 
and he filled it with the greatest high fantasy tropes 
and played them to the hilt—and then twisted 
them, defying his own clichés when it would hit 
the hardest. 
This book is for Game Masters who wish to run 
fantasy roleplaying game campaigns set on the con- 
tinent of Critical Role's first campaign, and for the 
players who will create characters for those games. 
The game mechanics in this book use “fifth edition 
”” but it also includes 
enough lore about the 
world to form the foundation for a game 
using the 
rules of any fantasy RPG. 
LANDS OF TAL’DOREI 
The name Tal'Dorei re 
to three things through- 
out this 
book. Most often, Tal'Dorei means the 
continent that is home to all of the people, locations, 
monsters, magic items, and more within these pages. 
Itis one of four major continents on the world of 
Exandria. Tal'Dorei can also mean the Republic of 
Tal’Dorei, the largest nation on the continent. And 
finally, Tal Dorei was first the surname of a mighty 
hero who lent her name to the land that she helped 
liberate from evil. 
See “A History of Tal'Dorei” later in this chapter 
for more details about the heroic 
Zan Tal'Dorei, the 
land she founded, and her descendant 
The continent of Tal'Dorei encompasses several 
nations and independent city-states, all of which 
are home to diverse peoples who view the world 
in ways influenced by their cultures and the lands 
they call home. The most significant nations of 
Tal'Dorei include: 
The Republic of Tal’Dorei. From the great city of 
Emon in the west, across the vast Dividing Plains, 
and even as far as the isolated city-state of Whites- 
tone in the northeast, the Republic of Tal'Dorei spans. 
the breadth of the continent that bears its name. 
Itis ruled by a council of elected representatives 
and is cordially allied with all other nations on the 
CHAPTER 
I: WELCOME TO TAL’DOREI 
ELCOME T: O TAL'DOREI 
Us 
The Ashari. The elementally attuned Ashari peo- 
ple are reclusive and dedicated to their mission of 
safeguarding elemental rifts across the world. Two 
of the greatest rifts exist in Tal’Dorei, and the Earth 
Ashari of Terrah and the Air Ashari of Zephrah keep 
watch over them from their secluded homes. 
The Deep Halls of Kraghammer. Deep beneath 
the Cliffkeep Mountains is Kraghammer, the ances- 
tral home of Tal'Dorei’s dwarven people. Though 
Kraghammer is home to people other than dwarves, 
its dark and claustrophobic halls act as a deterrent 
to non-dwarven residents—as does the dwarf clans’ 
famous inhospitality. 
The Verdant Enclave of Syngorn. In the heart of 
the trackless Verdant Expanse 
is a city of elves who 
hid in the Fey Realm from a war that nearly annih 
lated all life on Exandria. Syngorn is welcoming to 
all who brave the Verdant Expanse to reach them, 
though there is an expectation that those who visit 
take pains not to flaunt the strict and ancient rules 
of Syngornian society, lest their stay come to a swift 
and unceremonious end. 
The Iron Authority. This imperial force rules the 
Beynsfal Plateau in the southernmost reaches of the 
continent. There they train legions of soldiers in an 
endless campaign to conquer the entire Rifenmist 
Peninsula. The other powers of Tal'Dorei are just 
beginning to take notice of the movements of the 
Iron Authority, but most of their knowledge is based 
in rumor. The Tal'Dorei Council has little interest in 
drawing the authority's ire while it is preoccupied 
with its conquest of Rifenmi 
WHAT’S IN THIS BOOK? 
wapter 1 is an introduction to Tal’Dorei’s lands and 
history. It also describes certain fundamental details 
about the world of Exandria as a whole, including its 
calendar, the planes, and the cosmos. Finally, this 
chapter provides an overview of Tal'Dorei’s society 
today—and the brewing tensions and secrets that 
Game Masters can use to plot their own campaigns. 
Chapter 2 describes the allegiances player 
characters and non-player characters (NPCs) may 
have to deepen their connection to the world, Their 
allegiances may be to factions, such as governments 
or guilds, or to the gods. These divine beings can 
only affect the Material Plane through their mortal 
followers, or occasionally supernatural messengers 
like celestials or fiends. 
Chapter 3 is the Tal'Dorei Gazetteer, a detailed 
look at all of Tal’Dorei’s regions and cities, their

--- PAGE 9 ---
points of interest, the people who reside within them, 
and the quests that heroic adventurers might under- 
take there. 
Chapter 
4 contains new options that pla 
use 
to build their characters, including story d 
tions 
of the different ancestries; new subclass 
; and a handful of optional 
for the whole table. 
Chapter 5 contains advice to help Game Mas- 
ters create exciting and compelling campaigns in 
Tal'Dorei, and magic 
items that you can give your 
players as treasure during 
their perilous adven- 
tures—including the unstoppably powerful Vestig 
of Divergence. 
Chapter 6 presents game statistics 
for monste 
and NPCs that you can use to challenge 
your char- 
acters or aid them in a pinch. Among them are the 
legendary heroes Vox Machina, some twenty years 
after the conclusion of their greatest 
adventures. 
CALENDAR, TIME, AND 
THE COSMOS 
The world of Exandria is a planet with re 
sons 
and a wide variety 
of 
climes, ranging from frig 
ice caps 
to arid deserts, temperate forests, wind- 
swept plains, sweltering jungles, and storm-tossed 
oceans. It orbits 
a single sun, is orbited in turn by 
two moons, and is surrounded by distant stars that 
twinkle 
in the evening 
skies. 
The ancient people of 
Exandria told time by th 
celestial bodies, and the elves created a calendar 
The calendar year of Exandria runs 
a total of 328 
into seven-day weeks over the course 
ese months are outlined below 
in the order of their arrival within the calendar year, 
along with their 
respective number of days and holi- 
days common throughout Tal'Dorei (many of 
which. 
are detailed within the “Pantheon of Exandria” 
section in chapter 2). 
COUNTING YEARS 
a 
reckoning known as “Po: 
at O being the fateful year thatthe Prime D 
ended the Calamity by sealing all the gods behind 
Divine Gate. This book describes 
the world as 
ar 836 PD. ite familiar with the 
year is twenty-four 
fier the end of Campai 
achina) 
and 
toward the end of Campaign 2 (The Mighty Nein). 
TAL’DORE! CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 10 ---
MONTHS AND SEASONS 
‘The names of the months and days of the week vary 
between cultures, but the elven calendar described 
here is the standard means of reckoning dates in 
Tal’Dorei—as well as in most nations around the 
world, for ease of international trade and diplomacy. 
Just as in our world, there are four seasons, 
and the year ends and begins just after the win- 
ter solstice. 
‘The first blush of spring in Tal'Dorei is felt as 
new flowers bloom on Wild’s Grandeur, a holy day 
on the 20th of Dualahei. The official start of the 
season, however, is observed a week earlier and 
celebrated with games, music, and justripened food 
at the Renewal Festival. Summer brings hotter days 
toward the middle of Unndilar. The noonday sun of 
the 26th day is called the Zenith, and this solstice is 
considered the first true moment of the summer. 
The colors change and winds cool as autumn 
begins in the early days of the month of Fessuran, 
marked by the Harvest's Close on the 3rd day. The 
chill of winter arrives to bring longer nights and 
cleansing snow on Barren Eve, the 2nd of Duscar, 
a nighttime celebration and remembrance of those 
who fell in battle. 
The seven days of the week are named Mire- 
sen, Grissen, Whelsen, Conthsen, Folsen, Yulisen, 
and Da'leysen. Each day is 24 hours long, and 
most city-dwellers in the Republic of Tal’Dorei are 
expected to work eight hours of that day—except for 
Yulisen and Da'leysen, which comprise the weekend, 
and on holidays. 
These social rules don't necessarily apply to cul- 
tures where sleeping patterns are different (such as 
in Syngorn, where most of its people are elves who 
trance a mere four hours of the day), or to people 
outside of cities—such as farmers, who rise with the 
sun, and traveling merchants and adventurers, who 
work highly unusual hours. 
USING A CALENDAR 
The Exandrian calendar is intentionally quite 
different from our own. The creation of calendars 
is a messy and often illogical process, 
strange 
artifacts of their making that linger on only because 
of tradition—and because it would be too much of 
a 
hassle to get the entire world to change their way of 
counting time and days. 
You don't need to bother with the Exandrian calen- 
dar in your home game. It's perfectly reasonable for 
you to use a nice, simple seven-day week, thirty-day 
‘month, and twelve-month year. You may even use 
our names for the months and the days of the week 
so that when an NPC tells the party to meet them at 
noon on “Grissen, Misuthar 7th,” they're basically 
talking about “Tuesday, February 7th.” 
CHAPTER I: WELCOME TO TAL’DOREI 
However, if you want to immerse your playets in 
the fantasy world of Exandria, using this unfamiliar 
calendar may help you on your quest. 
EXANDRIAN CALENDAR 
Month 
Day 
Holidays 
Horisal 
29 
New Dawn (1st) 
Hillsgold (27th) 
Day of Challenging (7th) 
Renewal Festival (13th) 
Wild’s Grandeur (20th) 
Harvest's Rise (11th) 
Merryfrond’s Day (31st) 
Deep Solace (8th) 
Zenith (26th) 
Artisan’s Faire (15th) 
Elvendawn, or Mid- 
summer (20th) 
Highsummer (7th) 
Morn of Largesse (14th) 
Harvest's Close (3rd) 
The Hazel Festival (10th) 
Civilization’s Dawn (22nd) 
Night of Ascension (13th) 
Zan’s Cup (21st) 
Barren Eve (2nd) 
Embertide (Sth) 
Winter's Crest (20th) 
CATHA AND RUIDUS 
When the people of Tal’Dorei gaze into the morning 
sky, they see the sun, a blazing disc the size of 
a gold 
piece, looking back at them. It is the domain of the 
Dawnfather, a god of life and light honored politely by 
nearly all the realm’s denizens. 
At night, the skies are filled with countless distant 
stars, a gleaming 
silver-white moon called Catha, 
and occasionally, a dim, ruddy moon called Ruidus 
that is nearly half Catha’s 
size. Both moons are the 
domain of the Moonweaver, a capricious god of trick- 
ery and illusions, but there are sects throughout the 
world that believe only Catha represents the Moon- 
weaver's cunning and grace. Catha’s pearly glow is 
said to bless the just with cunning and caution, and 
to make hidden the goodhearted when they require 
stealth and subtlety. 
Ruidus, on the other hand, is so surrounded by dis- 
quieting rumors and folkloric tales of misfortune that 
some believe another unknown god or power rules 
this small, reddish-brown moon, Cultures around 
the world tell countless legends of prideful rulers 
who made grand plans or attempted deeds under the 
‘moon's full light—when it shines a brilliant vermilion 
rather than its usual ruddy color—and were forced to 
Misuthar 
30 
Dualahei 
30 
Thunsheer 
31 
Unndilar 
28 
Brussendar 
31 
Sydenstar 
32 
Fessuran 
29 
Quenpillar 
27 
Cuersaar 
29 
Duscar 
32

--- PAGE 11 ---
watch in horror as their endeavors fell to unforeseen 
misfortune. It is said those who fall afoul of Ruidus 
failed to give it the deference it is due—and so super- 
Stitious folk rarely dare to make plans while the full 
light of Ruidus shines above, let alone enact them. 
Worse yet, some tales forebode dark fortunes for 
those born under the light of a full Ruidus, a curse of 
ill luck that will follow them throughout their lives. 
Though the cruel practice of moon-sacrifice is no 
longer permitted in any of Tal’Dorei’s cities, some 
far-flung settlements still secretly sacrifice children 
born under a full Ruidus to “save” them from a 
cursed life, and to appease the dark and unknowable 
appetites of the red moon. 
Fortunately for the superstitious, Ruidus is rarely 
full. While its cousin, Catha, completes a full cycle 
approximately once a month, Ruidus’s haunting, half- 
year orbit, combined with its eerie and unexplainable 
tendency to simply not appear in the sky on certain 
nights or glow with unknown light, creating an 
‘unexpected full moon, has only added to its mythic 
reputation as an omen of ill fortune. 
MATERIAL PLANE 
The Material Plane is a land where natural laws 
work as we expect. Itis a place of all four elements, 
and of plants, animals, and minerals. Exandria 
is but 
one of many worlds on the Material Plane—though 
none but the most accomplished astronomers have 
become aware of this fact, much less devised a way 
of traveling between material worlds. 
ELEMENTAL PLANES 
When the Protean Gods discovered Exandria, it was 
like a barren ship adrift in a sea of churning, chaotic 
elements. As a part of their creation, the elements 
were thrust away from the world. Some theorize 
that the Elemental Planes were created from this 
banished chaos, while others believe the elemental 
chaos seeped into the Material Plane from tears in 
the fabric of the planes. 
The latter may be more likely, as rifts between the 
Elemental Planes can be found across Exandria. The 
largest of these rifts are tended to by the four Ashari 
civilizations, and any who gaze within find wild 
PROLOGUE TO THE SONG OF ALYXIAN 
© Ruidus, grant humble chorus leave 
To sing the song which hails the zenith of 
Your accurséd, thrice-blessed Apotheon; 
Remember'd best by deeds in war, and yet 
Whose acts were driven oft by fate most foul. 
His kindly brow bore gifts from gods 
of change, 
And art, and moon, yet in his soul was pain, 
The suffering of your vermilion light 
Drove the Paragon to a desert realm 
Bestrewn with blades and drenched 
in crimson blood. 
‘So hear, O moon of curséd deeds and fates! 
The song of he who rose above your great 
And mighty pow’, to save Exandria. 
From flames of war fanned by the Ruiner’s blade. 
PLANES 
Though this book concerns itself mostly with the 
world of Exandria, and specifically the continent of 
Tal'Dorei, high-level adventurers may eventually gain 
magic that allows them to travel to other planes of 
existence beyond the material world in which Exan- 
dria resides. 
The planes surrounding Exandria are similar to 
the planes presented in fifth edition lore. Below are 
brief descriptions of some of the planes that a party 
of powerful adventurers may travel to. These planes 
go by many poetic and fanciful names. 
nds of pure elemental power: roiling seas of 
fire, towering mountains of gnashing stone, infinite 
skies filled with cloudtop settlements, and endless, 
stormy oceans of water. 
FAERIE, SHADOW, AND ETHER 
Parallel to Exandria are odd reflections of its reality. 
The Fey Realm is a plane of natural beauty and 
ferocity, inhabited by fey folk. The Plane of Shadow 
is a dour, 
sinister mirror of the world that is. And 
the Ethereal Plane is a hazy film across the material 
world, as if it were viewed through an old, cloudy 
mirror, inhabited not only by restless spirits, but also 
by predators that target those who cling to the world 
of the living. 
ASTRAL PLANE 
All the prior planes exist directly adjacent to the 
Material Plane, buttressing 
and occasionally comin- 
gling with its inhabitants. All the planes that follow 
are separated from the material world by a vast sea 
of starlight, barren asteroids, and misty nebulae of 
unpredictable magic. In the ancient past, arcanists 
had to craft vessels to sail the treacherous sea of 
stars to travel between their home plane and the 
mysterious Outer Planes. 
These days, magic such as the plane shift spell has 
allowed planar travelers to bypass these methods, 
but there are 
still 
a number of strange creatures and 
forgotten, imprisoned demigods who float eternally 
through the Cosmic Sea. 
OUTER PLANES 
The Prime Deities imprisoned the Betrayer Gods 
in prison planes after the Founding, and retired 
a 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 12 ---
to planes of 
their own creation after the Diver- 
gence. Over time, the divine beings on these plan 
reshaped their new homes in their own 
image, creat- 
ing places where natural laws don't function as one 
native 
to the Material Plane might expect. 
All of these planes are strongly aligned to one 
or more cosmic principles of good, evil, law, and 
chaos, based on the divine powers that reside there. 
Because of the Divine Gate established after the 
Divergence, no divine powers can depart these 
planes, for the sake of all Creation. The gods’ super- 
natural creations can pass through the 
Divine Gate, 
though the more powerful they grow—and thus, the 
closer they come to divinity—the harder it is for them 
to pass through. However, mortals and lesser super- 
natural beings who 
possess magic 
to travel between 
the plan 
an travel to and from Outer Planes like 
the Hells, 
the Abyss, Elysium, and Pandemonium 
unhindered by the Divine Gate. 
REALMS BEYOND 
‘ar beyond even the divine Outer Planes is a realm 
where all laws of nature break 
down completely. 
have no way of properly perceiving the 
nature of these far-distant realms, and most minds 
that try to 
comprehend them snap under the strain 
of so much unfamiliar stimulus. These maddening 
realities and the alien horrors that live within them 
are mercifully kept away from the known multiverse 
by the unimaginable distance of space. 
Some creatures 
of the beyond have lurked on the 
Material Plane since ancient times, perhaps at the 
lation of the Chained Oblivion itself, or because 
the divine powers unleashed in the Calamity 
punched holes in time and space that allowed such 
to slither into Exandria unimpeded. 
Major known locations of aberrant activity in 
Tal'Dorei include Yug’Voril beneath Kraghammer, 
-ystalfen Caverns beneath Emon, and the realm 
of Ruhn-Shak beneath the Stormcrest Mountains. 
DEMIPLANES 
nite spaces such as the Material, Ble- 
mental, and Outer Planes are not the only types of 
reality. Through the 
use of powerful magic, arcanists 
can create stable demiplanes—finite pockets of 
extraplanar reality that they can 
shape to their 
whims. Thes 
exist as bubbles 
of floating color within the Cosmic 
Sea, and can only 
be traced or penetrated by extremely powerful, lost 
magical art

--- PAGE 13 ---
then, the vast empty he 
the light of the Seeker. Cascading from the pits was the ™ 
‘font of life. The first moon formed the endless oceans. 
The second sun brought the lush soil. The third wind 
carried breath of life. The fourth flame ignited the Heart 
of Exandria. 
THE FOURTH 
A HISTORY OF TAL’DOREI 
Where did Tal'Dorei come from? The origin of this 
land is a time-shrouded question that everyone 
has pondered in some way, 
from the most exalted, 
world-traveling hero to the common farmer who 
has never traveled three miles beyond their village. 
Everyone has their own ideas on where Tal'Dor 
and all of the wide world of Exandria, came from 
‘These varied thoughts all have some things in 
common, since they are all born of jumbled mi 
understandings of ancient myths told orally from 
bard to bard, then passed from father to daughter, 
and eventually codified into religious rewritings of 
history that favor the teachings of a given deity. 
To speak a full and accurate truth of Tal'Dorei 
is an impossible task, yet Tal'Dorei is known for 
creating folk who regularly do the impossible. What 
follows is the Myth of Exandria, an account based 
on the investigations and best efforts of Tal'Dorei's 
foremost scholars—the homegrown Alabaster 
Lyceum of Emon, and the international know!- 
edge-seckers and anti-propagandists of the Cobalt 
1ul. These two organizations have assembled this 
history by digging beneath the layers of dust and 
decay that hide battles long past, unearthing texts 
long thought burned and censored, and exhuming 
historical treasures from tombs of heroes 
long 
forgotten. The details 
are often debated, for the 
question of the land's origin remains—consuming 
the curious, calling those hungry for purpose, and 
fueling the business of adventuring to delve into the 
tantalizing unknown places of the world. 
MYTH OF EXANDRIA 
Before the history of the lands of Tal’Dorei can 
be explored, its context in the history of Exandria 
itself must be thoroughly established. The world of 
Exandria is home to four major continents, dozens 
of nations, and untold tiny pockets of c 
amid a wondrous, dangerous wilderness. Every 
civilization, from the largest empire to the tiniest 
nomadic clan, has its own interpretation of where 
its story began. Even within the world of Exandria, 
different cultures have creation myths that eventu- 
ally converge with history, but there is no known 
definitive story. 
Even so, life ever seeks to understand its 
inception. 
In this report, the collected minds of the Cobalt Soul 
and Emon's Alabaster Lyceum can say, 
with only the 
most trivial of doubts, that the city of Vasselheim in 
Othanzia truly deserves 
its title of the “Dawn City. 
Itis here, to our researchers’ best understanding, 
where the stories of all mortal peoples begin. Vas- 
selheim became Exandria’s oldest surviving city by 
virtue of not just being built long ago, but by enduring 
the Calamity (which shalll be elucidated presently), a 
miraculous feat that few other charted settlements 
can claim to have accomplished. 
In short, Vasselheim houses the earliest known 
temples to the gods, and the earliest known records 
of history that survived this catastrophe. It 
is these 
sources that this joint research initiative treats 
as its primary documents, though great effort has 
been made to corroborate their claims through later, 
sources. It is in the chronicles of Vasselheim that 
the earliest account of the myth of the Founding is 
recorded—and indeed, this history is the most com- 
monly accepted origin of the world in the Republic 
of Tal'Dorei. Though countless regional variations 
muddy the historical record, the broad strokes of 
this mythic history are undeniable. 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 14 ---
THE FOUNDING 
Long ago, this world was one of tumultuous and 
chaotic forces, naught but unbridled fire, seething 
‘oceans, and churning, gnashing rock. Through the 
ashen skies of Primordial Creation, the gods arrived 
from an unknown realm located beyond the ether. 
These ambitious divinities—young and still form- 
less—looked down upon this roiling realm and saw 
potential for great strength and outstanding beauty, 
and the chance to learn their own place in creation. 
From the divine hands of the Arch Heart sprung 
forth the First Children, the elves. It is thought that 
they were made in their creator's image, yet it is just 
as likely that the Arch Heart, and all the gods who 
shared their ideas with them, actually adopted forms 
inspired by the image of their creations. The First 
Children walked the lush Green and gazed upon the 
heavenly Blue as the gods tamed Primordial Cre- 
ation around them. 
Not long after, in the scale of the cosmos, a 
second mortal creation was wrought by the divine 
All-Hammer: the dwarves, a hearty people imbued 
with the desire to continue the gods’ work—taming 
a primordial world filled with the craft and invention 
of the divinity that lay beyond the ashen void. In their 
turn, a third people were given life by the passion- 
ate lovers of Order and Chaos, the Lawbearer and 
the Wildmother. Their children were the humans, 
endowed with hearts of passion 
to bring meaning to 
the world as it assumed an orderly form. Yet in their 
hearts burned a spark of chaos, cursing them with 
short life just as it blessed them with the unquench- 
able ambitions, mirth, and curiosities of the gods 
that crafted them. 
Asa note from the High Curator of Emon’s Cobalt 
Reserve, the chronicle of Vasselheim states that the 
gods were given form and name only when the peo- 
ples of Exandria began to worship them—yet many of 
the various races of the world ascribe their creation 
toa single god or group of gods. It would be remiss 
to not at least conjecture that while the Protean Gods 
lacked distinct form, they still had unique thoughts, 
emotions, and motivations that were later codified 
through the worship of the people. 
As inspiration flowed from the Protean Gods, 
other creations followed, giving life to Exandria’s 
many peoples. Here the mythic record of Vassel- 
heim grows unclear, for while the elves, dwarves, 
and humans were undeniably Exandria’s first races, 
the identities of the many Children of Creation that 
followed were left unrecorded by the Dawn City's 
chroniclers. 
These myriad young races explored their freshly 
founded world. As their knowledge grew, they 
attempted to build. But the land was fierce and 
treacherous, and the lives of the children were 
extinguished mercilessly 
by the still-chaotic world. 
CHAPTER I: WELCOME TO TAL’DOREL 
Sorrow is said to have filled the hearts of the gods as 
they watched their children struggle against a land 
that rebuked them. The gods ultimately lent their 
children tiny fragments of their own power, gifts with 
which they might shape the world around them. 
This small mercy of the gods was the 
birth of 
magic, and with it the people of Exandria learned 
to bend the angry earth to their will, to temper 
the wrath of its explosive mountains, to tame its 
unyielding floods, and to make the hard earth soft 
and bountiful. Wandering peoples settled, language 
became commonplace, survival gave way to art, and 
governance replaced anarchy. The Protean Creators, 
the divinity beyond the ashen skies, saw progress 
and saw that it was good—but fragile, and in need of 
guardians. 
Thus were born the First Protectors: the Dragons 
Metallic of Tal’Dorei. These Protectors pledged 
themselves to defend the weak against tyrants. It is 
here that the mythic tales connect to the oldest, most 
fragmented passages of recorded history as civiliza- 
tion’s reach stretched across the world. The people 
praised the gods for their newfound safety, and their 
prayers gave them forms, names, and purpose. 
WRATH OF THE PRIMORDIALS 
Yet the realm refused to be tamed. Quaking cliffs 
roared in defiance of mortalkind’s magical gifts. 
‘Seas swelled and seethed. Flames erupted from 
below with greater intensity than any had seen 
before. Beneath the elements, unknown to the Cre- 
ators beyond the ashen skies, lived ancient beings 
who were born in the primeval chaos of the world the 
gods had found: the Primordials. These elemental 
titans that once dwelt deep within the land now rose 
from their unseen domain to sunder it once more. 
‘The gods watched as their children were crushed 
between gnashing rocks and fed to formless terrors 
unleashed in the wake of the destruction. Thus 
were the seeds of Exandria’s greatest cataclysm set 
into motion. 
Some gods were so full of grief and anger that they 
wished to abandon this world for another. They tried 
to convince their divine kindred to join the Primor- 
dials in reclaiming the realm for chaos, so that they 
could move on to start anew. Others wished to prove 
they could tame the world for their beloved children. 
This caused a divide among the gods. The schis- 
matic deities, known today as the Betrayer Gods, 
joined their songs and swords to those of chaos and 
destruction, taking and twisting their children into 
the image of their intent. 
‘The cosmos itself seemed to recognize the ma; 
tude of the battle on Exandria, and beings of Order 
and Chaos spilled forth from the still-young multi- 
verse. Creatures of chaos emerged from a formless 
void that Exandria's peoples came to call the Abyss.

--- PAGE 15 ---
4 
‘These demons fed upon the suffering of the wounded 
and the dying, and grew cruel. Sentinels of order 
‘emerged from a distant realm of celestial harmony. 
The Prime Deities beseeched these celestials to aid 
them. In turn, the Betrayer Gods forced order upon 
the demons and made them devils, perfectly lawful 
soldiers who lived only to cause harm. 
As the clash of gods and Primordials spiraled out 
of control, the desperate mortal races sought their 
own way to defend themselves from the rebellious 
elements. Seeing that their creations still suffered, 
the Arch Heart taught them the secrets of mak- 
ing magic themselves. The most intelligent and 
inquisitive mortal minds followed the path the gods 
had revealed to them, and created incantations and 
formulae to create new spells on their own terms, 
without the aid of divine power. These people called 
themselves arcanists, for they were masters of the 
areane secrets of magic. 
With their potent new magics, these resourcefill 
mortals subdued the Primordials long enough for 
the Prime Deities to banish their traitorous kin to 
secluded prison planes. With the Betrayer Gods 
locked away, the gods were overjoyed to see the 
resourcefulness of their children. The defeated 
Primordial were destroyed, and from their ever-en- 
during essences, the gods channeled their wild and 
destructive powers into the Elemental Planes that 
surround the material world of Exandria. 
For the first time since the Creation, Exandria 
finally settled into an idyllic peace. From this peace 
was born the first enduring mortal civilization, the 
heart of which was a grand city called Vasselheim, 
the Cradle of Creation and the Dawn City. 
Culture developed anew, the races ventured 
beyond to explore and discover their own lands, andi 
great music filled the air to give name to this world 
once and for all: Exandria. 
AGE OF ARCANUM 
Ages passed, and society flourished. Great kingdoms 
sprung up. Castles were built in a day, accelerated 
by the arcanists’ newfound power. Even though 
magic could be used to complete the most difficult 
tasks with hitherto unknown speed, magie-u 
strove always to innovate. As mages practiced 
perfected their powers of creation, they soon 
unlocked the secrets of life itself, giving birth to 
wondrous, dangerous new forms of life 
and power. 
Yet, with the benefit of hindsight, itis clear 
that the very magic which allowed mortalkind 
to prosper also instilled a deep rot within their 
civilizations. The arcanists of the world grew 
arrogant. They came to see their arcane gifts as 
proof that the gods held no sway over their fate, 
and that with a sophisticated enough command 
of magic, 
they could become as powerful as the 
gods themselves. Though this hurt and surprised 
the Prime Deities who had imprisoned their kin for 
the sake of their children, they sought to sympathize 
with the willfulness of their creations, remaining out, 
of love and hoping that the mortals would learn the 
error of their ways. 
scholars of our day would make it 
seem an indisputable fact that the 
gods 
created 
Eandria. That they blessed us with the bounty that 
all peoples of the world now make use of. $0 too, 
they say, was magic their 
gift to us. But such zeal- 
ots ignore the fact that there is another likelihood: 
that the gods did not create mortals, and their 
World—but the opposite. That the dreams of moi 
tals mingled in the wild magic of the young world, 
and gave that magic form and orderedivinity. Of 
course, the dogmatic zealots 
of our day till dismiss 
b such ideas as heresy—but not you, reader! The avid 
pind feeds not on dogma, but on new ideas! 
—FRAGMENT OF A SCHOLARLY ESSAY 
‘ON DIVINITY DATING BACK TO ANCIENT 
VASSELHEIM, ANONYMOUS a

--- PAGE 16 ---
The advent of the arcane seemed to be the key to 
a bountiful age of plenty, but also proved to threaten 
as prosperity soon gave way to greed. Rather 
than universal goodwill and comfort for all, the Age 
of Arcanum came to be defined by endless petty 
squabbles over wealth and power among the elite, 
while those without magic hunted for their scraps. 
Tantalizing rumors of a path to immortality slithered 
through the most decadent circles of magi and nobil- 
ity, One mortal mage, her name lost and presumed 
to be struck from history, crafted now-forbidden rites 
to challenge the God of Death, felling him and taking 
his place among the pantheon, making of her the 
first and only living mortal to ascend. The name of 
this original death god was likewise lost to history. 
Only the title of his now-godly successor, the Matron 
of Ravens, survives. 
Her victory over divinity was a catalyst for many 
of the horrors of the Age of Arcanum. An archmage 
named Vespin Chloras, renowned throughout 
ancient Vasselheim for his wealth, skill, and cruelty, 
was inspired 
by this display. He sought the guidance 
and power of the banished gods, rending open the 
gates of their prisons and releasing the Betrayers 
into the mortal world. 
In their imprisonment, these Gods of Hatred and 
Despair had warped their prisons into reflections of 
their depravity. The Abyss, once a formless place of 
chaos, a byproduct of the gods’ Creation, was twisted 
into a place of evil. Countless other planes of cruelty 
were born from the Betrayer Gods’ hatred, and those 
realms’ evil depths endlessly churned forth horrors 
that lived only to transform peace into suffering, and 
righteousness into arrogance and greed. 
Released unto the mortal world once more, the 
Betrayer Gods' urge to ruin was supplanted by the 
desire to dominate, and they turned their sights first 
to the archmage who had freed them, making Vespin 
the first of 
their many mortal thralls. Records of 
diabolical texts safeguarded within the libraries of 
the Alabaster Lyceum suggest that Vespin, now long 
dead, serves the Betrayer Gods to this day—now as a 
devil at the left hand of the Lord of the Hells. These 
corrupt gods sought out the shattered remnants of 
the devils they had crafted and the demons they con- 
scripted, and secretly created with them a fearsome 
new kingdom on the far end of the world, the capital 
of which was named Ghor Dranas, the Gathering 
of Shadows. 
In this land, where the twisted power of the 
Betrayer Gods’ corrupted planes seeped into the 
world, the lords of evil welcomed mortals whose 
heartlessness and lust for power made them suscep- 
tible to the gods’ grand promises. The most fertile 
soil of all for these noxious seeds lay in mortal hearts 
obsessed with the infinite power of the arcane. 
a legion of the damned behind them, the Betrayer 
CHAPTER I: WELCOME TO TAL’DOREL 
Gods soon made their presence known to the world 
with a surprise assault on Vasselheim itself, 
Though much of the city was reduced to rubble, 
Vasselheim weathered the initial assault, saved by 
the intervention of their protectors, the metall 
dragons, and even a number 
of the Prime Deities 
themselves. The creators descended to trade blows 
with their former brethren. The battle, which pitted 
gods against mortals and heroes against demons, 
raged ceaselessly for twenty days and nights, until 
the dark forces were forced to retreat, their surprise 
attack thwarted. 
Yet this victory was a tainted one. Evil had been 
- 
repulsed momentarily, but the revelation of such a 
‘ 
terrible foe incited an arcane arms race. Trust was 
shattered indefinitely: if mortals could fall under 
the sway of the Betrayer Gods, who could be true 
allies? If ruin like this could be unleashed under the 
watchful eyes of divinity, what value did mortal lives 
hold? Fearing all powers but their own, the most 
self-interested and singular human arcanists warped 
their greatest creations, magical instruments of pros- 
perity and joy, into arms and armor of horrific power. 
‘The dwarves’ 
fascination with rock and earth turned 
toward isolation as they burrowed further into the 
mountains, using their divine gifts to animate legions 
of autonomous golems to protect their ancestral 
halls. Elves used their understanding of creation’s 
beauty and intricacies to weave spells of unimag- 
inable destructive force, the likes of which Exandria 
had never before seen. 
For the first time since the awakening of the 
Primordials, the focus of magic was warfare. The 
gods themselves agreed to join their children on the 
field of battle, descending from the heavens to take 
up arms once more for the war now referred to as 
the Calamity. 
THE CALAMITY 
Few records remain 
of the terrible war that followed, 
but its effects are 
still felt today. Most tales that 
remain are of great champions who the Prime Dei- 
ties blessed with their power. Some deities created 
warriors of their own from light and holy fire. Others 
imbued fragments of their power into the weap- 
‘ons now called Vestiges of 
Divergence. More still 
bestowed blessings upon mortals and called them 
champions. One tale even tells of a champion blessed 
by three of the gods in their times of greatest need. 
Now all but forgotten, this Apotheon was forced by 
fate into terrible battles across the world. 
The sheer magnitude of the energies unleashed in 
the ensuing battles of gods and mortals frayed the 
boundaries holding back the elemental chaos, spill- 
ing unbridled destruction into the world and bringing 
utter annihilation. Even the ley lines that direct the 
flow of magic across Exandria like veins direct blood

--- PAGE 17 ---
through the body show signs of being warped by 
the raw power that the Calamity unleashed. Some 
well-preserved ruins of the ancient 
civilizations 
remain, such as the Drowned City of Cael Morrow 
in the lands of Marquet, but for the most part, all 
traces of the old world were erased from the face 
of Exandria. 
So great was the loss of life during the war that 
even liberal estimates suggest no more than a third 
of Exandria’s population survived it. This unthink- 
able devastation inspired some civilizations to flee 
Exandria entirely and seek refuge on other planes, 
scattering the Children of Creation across the 
multiverse. By the war's end, the only bastion of 
ivilization left on the face of Exandria was the Dawn 
City itself: Vassetheim. 
THE DIVERGENCE 
In the wake of the Calamity, the victorious Prime 
Deities once more banished their traitorous kin 
to their realms of deception and hate. The world 
entered a long, dark period of recovery, as history 
had to be recovered and purpose restored, and the 
threat of the Betrayer Gods still loomed heavily upon 
the minds of all. Even the Prime Deities felt guilt for 
their role in the conflict, for it was the unrestrained 
clash of 
divine power that had unleashed such horror 
upon the world. 
‘The records of the Scalebearers assert that the 
Platinum Dragon and the Lawbearer descended 
upon Vasselheim and spoke a decision: the Prime 
Deities would depart from the world and establish a 
Divine Gate that would forever prevent any god from 
ever acting directly upon Exandria again. This proc- 
lamation shocked the other Prime Deities and the 
beleaguered survivors of the war in equal measure, 
but while mortals railed against this announcement, 
the other gods quickly realized that the decision of 
the two most dutiful and self-sacrificing of their num- 
ber was unimpeachable and just. 
Thus, in hopes of ensuring such ruin would not 
befall Exandria again, they left their children to 
rebuild civilization anew within the walls of Vassel- 
heim and beyond. The Creators returned to their 
own realms, sealing all divine powers behind their 
newly constructed Divine Gate. Only in this way 
could they prevent their corrupted brethren from 
physically returning to the Material Plane. 
Much time has passed since, and the world has 
been reborn once again. The gods still exhibit their 
influence and guidance from beyond the Divine 
Gate, bestowing their 
knowledge and power to their 
most devout worshipers, but the path of mortals is 
now their own to make. New cities, kingdoms, and 
cultures have retaken the world, building over the 
ashes of the old. New songs fill the air, and the hope 
ofa brighter future drives people day after day, while 
buried ruins and forgotten relics remind all people 
ofa darker time—and of mistakes that should never 
be repeated. 
NAMES OF THE DIVERGENCE 
Of these many formative events, the tale of the 
Divergence is the most oft-told among the many 
faiths and civilizations of the world, When seeking 
the truth of this event, the researchers of the Cobalt 
Soul found that it was called by many titles around 
the world, for many different reasons. 
+ The Second Spark. This name is most often used 
by those who study the arcane, for it was the 
gods giving them a second chance to use magic 
for the betterment of the world. 
The Penance. Priests, clerics, and religious 
scholars across Exandria refer to the departure 
of the gods by this name, for they see it as a 
self-imposed atonement for the gods’ role in the 
ravaging of the world. 
+ The Divergence. The most common name for this 
event, the Divergence, is used by people of all 
classes and creeds. This descriptive name simply 
refers to the gods’ final act of divergence from 
the mortal world. 
ORIGINS OF TAL’DOREI 
Following the creation, and subsequent razing, of 
Exandria, a post-Divergence world was now left to 
rise from the ashes and begin a new era. While every 
region had its own rebirth following the terrible 
destruction of the Calamity, the continent that now 
bears the name of this setting shall remain the focus. 
‘The modern calendar began in the year 0 P.D. 
(Post-Divergence), over eight hundred years before 
the writing of this text. Though the modern nation- 
state of Tal'Dorei did not emerge for some time after 
year 0, the history of Tal’Dorei truly began with the 
founding of Gwessar. 
GWESSAR 
At the dawning of modern history, what is now 
known as the continent of Tal'Dorei housed the 
germinating seeds of civilization. It was the hardy, 
dependable dwarves who best weathered the war 
between gods and mortals, beneath the Cliffkeep 
Mountains. Dozens of dwarven redoubts rose and 
fell in the tumult of the Calamity and the uncertain 
era that followed it. For many years, dwarves lived in 
the tunnels beneath the Cliffkeep Mountains, 
leaderless and chaotic, until the various clans unified 
to form the subterranean city of Kraghammer. Proud 
of their grand new home, the dwarf clans were 
content to remain beneath the earth. They saw the 
war-scarred surface world as a source of naught but 
misery and death, and their new underground 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 18 ---
domain as a place of undiscovered prosperity. This 
city was dug underneath the mountains, and its deep 
roots, though young, survived where more ancient 
ancestral halls were annihilated. Clan Jaggenstrike 
were the architects of Kraghammer's hardy, 
unassailable redoubts, and easily became the first 
ruling clan of the Kraghammer dwarves. 
While the dwarves busied themselves excavating 
the world below, a group of elves appeared suddenly 
in the south. At the outset of the Calamity, a society 
of elves used a powerful, obscure ritual to transport 
many of their people to safety on another plane: the 
Fey Realm, a plane of primordial beauty where elven 
legend says the Arch Heart lovingly fashioned their 
people before placing them upon the face of Exan- 
dria, They returned at the turning of the ages under 
the guidance of an elven sorceress named Yenlara 
Alderwreath. 
The elves rallied around her both for her defiant 
strength and for her compassion 
in the face of 
adversity. It was under Yenlara’s wise rule that elven 
society once 
again began to reform. Upon returning 
to Exandria, Yenlara led her people westward to the 
Verdant Expanse, an untamed forest born from the 
residual elemental power that lingered after the end 
of the Calamity. 
So beautiful was the forest they settled in that 
Yenlara’s people were the first elves known to bear 
the now-widespread name of syn'alfen—wood elves, 
in Common parlance. Likewise, the beauty of their 
forest home inspired the name of their first settle- 
ment: Syngorn, the great elvenhome that stands 
proud within the Verdant Expanse to this very day. 
As Yenlara’s people began to explore beyond the 
forest, they found vast fields of grass emerging from 
the ash-darkened ground, with tall, snoweapped 
mountains visible on the horizon. Overwhelmed by 
the beauty of the restored world, the syn'alfen called 
their new land Gwessar, the Fields of Joy, a name by

--- PAGE 19 ---
which 
elves (and those enamored with elven culture) 
still call the 
continent of Tal'Dorei to this day 
The dwarves and elves are long-lived people, and 
when they struggled to rebuild their civiliz 
there were those among them who still remembered 
the world that was. Humanity was not so fortunate. 
Human histories, 
written by wasteland warlords in 
fading ink on waterlogged parchment and vellum, 
did not survive the years. 
Yet, somehow 
ndured. Several centuries a 
a 
dwarves began this 
period 
of renewal, 
a clan of 
humans braved the angry Ozmit Sea and sailed 
to Gwessar's western coast from the continent of 
Issylra, though whether or not they came from Va: 
selheim itself is unknown. 
These people had the sea in their 
blood, and leapt 
from island to 
island for generations, but something 
called them to Gwessar. The ruins of their first 
settlement—the port city 
of 
O'Noa—still stand tod: 
From O'Noa the seafarers expanded outward, unt 
all of the western shores 
flew 
their 
banner. In the 
north, they found fertile fields protected from the 
salt 
of the sea, and an inlet unmarred by 
looming rock: 
and dangerous reefs, and they began to build. They 
did not know their city 
would become the heart of 
a 
great empire. They did not know the 
glory 
row that would surround the 
THE IRON RULE OF DRASSIG 
The 
rise of human 
colonies irritated the el 
y 
gorn. Forests that had stood for centuries fell under 
the axes 
of rash, shortlived beings who 
s 
exploit, expand, and propagate thoughtlessly. 
tensions did not build to 
war, for lon 
ories of the elves, but humanity remained a thorn in 
the side of elfkind, 
chafing at their hard-won 
to protect their society and threatening to encroach 
upon their 
sacred woodlands. 
As the first human civilizat 
part of the 
world after the Calamity, 
Emon gave rise to a handful 
of self-entitled noble houses who went on to establish 
lization in the name of the Lawbearer—but those 
who wrote the game stacked the deck in their 
favor. 
Corruption spread through the upper 
echelons of 
Emon, and power-hungry poli 
d each 
new 
\d valuable resource that was discovered in. 
their bountiful new kingdom. They turned their 
citizens against each other, forcing them 
to fight for 
scraps while they hoarded the lion’s share. 
Emon was a political war zone, and the greatest 
warrior of them all was a loudmouthed braggart 
and cunning oligarch named Warren Drassig. The 
chaos and mistrust in Emon allowed Drassig and hi 
agents to seize power and transform the realm into 
n himself 
a it 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 20 ---
and make new alliances with the dwarves of Kra- 
ghammer, marrying Drassig’s autocratic power with 
the dwarves’ immense mates 
wealth. 
‘The elves were furious, but the ambassador from 
‘Syngorn to Emon, an idealistic grandson of the 
stillliving Yenlara, hoped to resolve this diplomati- 
cally. Upon arrival, he was apprehended, tortured, 
and slain. This final act of treachery drove Syngorn 
to.arms, and the continent erupted into a terrible, 
protracted war between Yenlara’s kin and Drassig’s 
bloodline known as the Scattered War. 
THE SCATTERED WAR 
The Scattered War lasted for thirty two years, and 
is recalled in bardsong as the Time of Shrouds. The 
war spanned the Cliffkeep Mountains and parts 
of the Verdant Expanse, with the human colonies 
spread throughout the soon-to-be-warring territories. 
King Drassig encountered little resistance as he 
conquered each village, town, and city in turn, giving 
these isolated settlements no way of warning 
one 
another of the warlord’s advance. 
No common warmonger, Drassig was a cunning, 
heartless master of psychological warfare. Weeks in 
advance of his armies, he seeded spies throughout 
the land. They traveled swiftly through the secret 
dwarf-tunnels that crisscrossed the Cliffkeep Moun- 
tains, and infiltrated settlements throughout the 
region, turning the people of each settlement against 
their own leaders, eating 
at them from within, 
poisoning them against one another. By the time 
Drassig’s armies reached their targets, they were 
already poised to fall. The lights of human towns and 
elven groves were snuffed out with equal savagery. 
Yet, a mere nine years after the war began, King 
Warren Drassig died. 
It happened at Torthil, an abandoned village 
in Gwessar's heartlands. For years, rumors had 
grown that Torthil was a haven for war refugees. 
The king and his soldiers fell upon the village with 
a vengeance, seeking survivors to slaughter. As they 
regrouped in the town square, Drassig stood among 
them, blade raised, eyes wild, and voice booming, to 
rally their bloodthirsty spirits. It was at the height 
of his wicked speech that the first arrow struck, fol 
lowed shortly by a volley that clouded the sky. After 
nine years of suffering, Yenlara’s wood elves and 
the rebellious humans of the scattered colonies had 
joined forces and formed an alliance against their 
common enemy. 
After Warren Drassig fell, he was succeeded by his 
eldest son, Neminar Drassig. Neminar shunned the 
crude, brutal methods of his father, instead finding 
his interests in more sinister powers. He became 
known as “Neminar the Black Fingered,” as his 
forays into necromancy left one arm withered and 
tainted. Nevertheless, his weaponization of forbidden 
magic elevated the threat of Drassig’s war machine. 
CHAPTER I: WELCOME TO TAL’DOREI 
King Neminar, bent on bloody-minded vengeance, 
led his army back to Torthil, where the corpses of 
the elven and human traitors were piled high upon 
the outer walls. Their pyres ignited the night as 
the entire city was reduced to rubble. And so the 
Scattered War continued, unabated by the death of 
Warren Drassig. 
The rule of Neminar marked the darkest days of 
the war. He introduced tacties and magic that drove 
his 
soldiers beyond human limits, leaving their bod- 
altered and mutated by foul necromancy. Their 
warped minds craved bloodshed and domination, 
and their bodies needed no sustenance to fuel their 
bloodlust. Drassig’s forces became the perfect weap- 
ons of war, their ranks blessed by the divine touch of 
the Strife Emperor—the first Betrayer God to extend 
his power to mortals beyond the Divine Gate. All the 
gods soon learned that though they could not walk 
upon Exandria themselves, they could still grant 
magic to their faithful, 
In the face of such terrible power, the alliance of 
humans and elves 
bolstered their ranks with venge- 
ful orphans and eager heroes of all ancestries who 
suffered under Drassig's tyranny. One such hero who 
came to be instrumental in the coming conflict was 
Zan Tal'Dorei. A human who rose from the harried 
streets of Syngorn, Zan quickly showed her mettle as. 
both a warrior and an inspirational leader. Rallying 
the broken ranks of the resistance, Zan lured Nemi- 
nar and 
his lead forces into the Verdant Expanse. 
Neminar’s undoing was an arrogant attack upon 
the Shifting Keep, a Syngornian outpost protected 
by the slippery magic of the Fey Realm. The illusory 
fortress vanished, leaving the Drassig army without 
a target and vulnerable to ambush. The forest itself 
seemed to lend its fury to the weapons of Zan’s war- 
riors, and Neminar and his blighted soldiers were 
crushed in one swift stroke. 
Word of Neminar's defeat and death spread like 
wildfire across Gwessar, and the banner of Zan 
Tal'Dorei’s rebel army became a symbol of hope for 
all of the oppressed peoples of the realm. 
Even so, the last years of fighting were still ahead 
of them, for the late King Warren Drassig’s youngest 
son still stood to take power, and swore to avenge 
his family. 
BATTLE OF THE UMBRA HILLS 
ig, second-born son of the despoti 
Warren Drassig, took the throne with unearned con- 
fidence. So enamored was he with arrogant visions 
of victory that he ignored the truth of his tenuous 
rule: he was neither as brilliant nor as charismatic 
as his father, his armies were stretched thin, and 
his 
people rioted. The rebels, led by the young warrior 
Zan Tal'Dorei, won battle after battle, and before 
long, King Trist found his army backed against the

--- PAGE 21 ---
In the wake of certain 
victory, Zan and her rebels, 
allied with the elves of Syngorn, pursued Drassig to 
this valley, but were met with fiends amidst the ranks 
of their enemy. King Trist had a secret weapon. 
through his 
family’s dealings with the Strife 
Emperor, the spawn of the Betrayers had returned 
to the world. They spilled into the battlefield like a 
river of nightmares, and in minutes, the surrounding 
hills ran dark with blood and ichor, and the bodies 
of humans and demons alike littered the battlefield. 
Yet, despite all odds, the hero Zan defeated King 
Trist, ending the Drassig bloodline—and with it, the 
demonic pact the Drassigs had made. It is said that 
the grass and flowers of 
the Umbra Hills grow black 
and burnt as an echo of this battle, their sap coursing 
with the fiendish blood that was spilled that day. 
TAL DOREI ASCENDANT 
Society had all but collapsed once more amidst the 
Scattered War. Within the Verdant Expanse, the 
triumphant rebels assembled a council of trusted 
and proven minds, but the people were accustomed 
toa singular leader, a king. In the hearts of the 
people, 
it was not the crown that had failed them, but 
the bloody-minded family that wore it. The council 
assented to the will of their people, and nominated 
the war hero Zan Tal'Dorei to take the throne. She 
humbly accepted the role, 
but refused to take the title 
of king or queen. Her name, she asserted, was Zan. 
After some debate, she eventually relented to being 
called Sovereign Tal'Dorei, if such formality was 
required. 
Again 
in spite of Zan’s protestations, the count 
unanimously agreed the realm should be renamed 
Tal'Dorei in her honor. Power was divided between 
the sovereign and the council, both of whom ruled 
from Emon. From there, Emon's leaders expunged 
any remnants of Drassig’s reign from their city, while 
the allied armies 
of Tal’'Dorei and Syngorn did the 
‘same throughout the realm. The leading clans of 
Kraghammer pleaded for clemency, claiming they 
were coerced to serve Drassig. They spent many 
years paying reparations and making amends, but 
the fractured trust between Gwessar's peoples took 
generations to heal. 
THE ICELOST YEARS 
Not two years into Sovereign Zan's reign, a cataclys- 
mic evil tested her mettle and the skill of the council. 
Accreature from the Elemental Plane of Ice slunk 
into the Material Plane through a hitherto unknown, 
rift between the planes. It appeared in a mystical 
forest of eternal winter known today as the Frost- 
weald. From its hibernal abode, this elemental spirit 
spied upon the untested realm of Tal’Dorei and saw 
an opportunity. The spirit dove back to its extrapla- 
nar home and informed its master of a land ripe for 
“A king should not stand apart from their people. A 
ruler must know sacrifice, 
for how 
else are they to 
know those who till the fields, who tend to the cattle, 
and who raise our children? A ruler should know 
pain and sorrow, for war is bloody and cruel. A ruler 
who asks their people to fight is one who as 
to die, and no person should die for a selfish king 
or an unjust cause. A ruler should know justice, buf 
also mercy, for not all crimes are committed with 
evil intent, but rather ingriefiand shame. | am ne 
| king. 1am the peasant tn the fields:1 am the pai 
at the easel. 1am the young soldier donning their 
father’s rusted armor. You will not find me sitting 
°o 
sta name: its 
is a principle. From this 
day, Tal Dorei 
ple that stands for honor, an everlasting honor that 
binds its people. A principle that is a beacon for the 
lost, the helpless, and the forgotten. Tal'Dorei is a 
principle that you should declare with honor as you 
= stand side-by-side with the people of Tal’Dorei 
as 
kin. Tal'Dorei is not a name;itis to be proud, it is to 
have honor, it is to be loyal, and loving, and kind. 
Tal 'Vorei is not a name; itis a people. And you are 
the people 
of Tal'Dorei! 
I refuse the title 
of king. If 
sh me to rule, 
I shall do so as a sovereign of 
1 people—and if you permit me, if you accept me 
4 
sovereign of Tal’Dorei! For the Honor of 
ACCEPTANCE SPEECH OF SOVEREIGN ZAN 
TAL'DOREI TO HER PEOPLE 
conquest. Errevon the Rimelord, a cruef elemental so 
mighty that he is speculated to have been a scion of 
the Primordials, one that escaped the gods’ wrath in 
the Founding, seized this opportunity. 
On the next winter solstice, 
Errevon tore wide 
the Frostweald rift and commanded the endless 
blizzards of his home plane to ravage the prosperous 
land around it. Tal'Dorei’s southern reaches, thus 
weakened, were easy pickings for the Algid Legion, 
a mighty army of frost giants and animate blizzards 
led by the Rimelord himself. Their relentless advance 
covered all they touched in snow and death. 
Countless brave warriors and civilians alike 
fell to the invaders’ gelid weapons, for they were 
unprepared for such an onslaught so soon after the 
Drassigs’ protracted war. The storm of ice widened 
year by year, consuming the Tal'Dorei heartland 
as Errevon claimed all lands that fell beneath the 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 22 ---
ice as his own. North of the rift, he built a towering 
citadel of frost, forcing those he conquered to swear 
fealty in exchange for warmth and liquid water. The 
Rimelord’s tyrany lasted for three long years as the 
nascent Council of Tal'Dorei struggled to convince 
Syngorn and Kraghammer to ally for the sake of the 
realm. This monumental diplomatic mission com- 
pleted, the combined might of Tal'Dorei, Syngorn, 
and Kraghammer assaulted Errevon’s Citadel and 
forced the Rimelord back to the rift from whence 
he came. It was in this time of need that the druidic 
Ashari people first revealed themselves 
to the people 
of Tal'Dorei, and used their unrivaled elemental 
magic to seal the rift once and for all. The snow 
began to melt, the fortress toppled into the nearby 
Foramere Basin, and the people celebrated their 
freedom from the oppressive cold. This victory is 
now celebrated annually throughout Tal’Dorei as the 
Winter's Crest festival. 
THORDAK, THE CINDER KING 
Zan Tal'Dorei passed peacefully after a long and 
happy rule, and was succeeded by a long line of her 
descendants, Many generations of peace ensued, and 
the Tal’Dorei Empire formed as dozens of tiny 
states across the Dividing Plains flocked to the stable 
rule and heroic reputation of Tal’Dorei in the wake of 
the Icelost Years. 
‘The adroit statecraft of the Council of Tal'Dorei 
maintained cordial alliances with both Syngorn 
and Kraghammer, but, despite their best efforts, 
couldn't keep the elves and dwarves from regress- 
ing to hostility over ancient quarrels. In the time of 
Sovereign Odellan Tal'Dorei, word of a shadow in 
the south came to the ears of the council. Contact 
with numerous outlying townships at the edges of 
the empire halted abruptly, and traders that made 
circuits from Emon to the Rifenmist Peninsula in the 
south vanished without a trace. The council was slow 
to act in defense of territories that routinely flaunted 
imperial law, but were finally driven to action when 
allied villages south of the Verdant Expanse begged 
for protection against a 
“nightmare of fire and 
malice.” The dour Sovereign Odellan blocked the 
council's relief efforts, claiming the economic cost of 
sending a regiment that far south to outsider commu- 
nities was a misuse of resources, especially without 
proof of a threat. It wasn't until two years later, when 
reports of a powerful red dragon reached the ears 
of the sovereign, that the Council of Tal'Dorei was 
able to act. 
By then, much of the Mornset Countryside 
had been reduced to ash by a self-obsessed and 
power-hungry red dragon named Thordak, who pre- 
ferred the self-styled moniker of “the Cinder King.” 
According to Cobalt Soul records from the Temple of 
the Mentor in the lands of Marquet, the Cinder King 
CHAPTER I: WELCOME TO TAL’DOREI 
‘was presumed dead nearly two hundred years prior, 
killed by the brass dragon Devo'ssa—yet it could not 
be denied that Thordak survived, and that he sought 
new peoples to enslave, ones with fewer defenses. 
The mighty armies of Tal’Dorei marched finally 
south, but morale was low. They marched toward 
fiery, painful death, and soldiers grumbled ofa 
heartless sovereign who luxuriated in his castle in 
Emon while his people put their lives on the line for 
the realm, They finally clashed with Thordak and his 
mercenary armies south of the Stormcrest Moun- 
tains, but the forces of Tal’Dorei were soon forced 
into a panicked, disorganized retreat as the rocky, 
exposed terrain worked to the advantage of their 
airborne foe. 
The valiant soldiers of Tal’Dorei would surely have 
been brought to utter ruin were it not for the heroic 
intervention of 
a band of young—yet able—adventur- 
ers, Led by Arcanist Allura Vysoren, who sits today 
upon the Tal’Dorei Council, they cornered the Cinder 
King alone and defeated him—though his power 
was so great that they could not manage to kill the 
dragon outright. Instead, Allura and her companions 
used powerful magic to imprison Thordak within the 
Elemental Plane of Fire forever. The Fire Ashari of 
distant Issylra vowed to watch over Thordak’s prison 
until age could consume even him. 
THE CHROMA CONCLAVE 
Forever lasted a mere sixteen years. In that time, life 
returned to mundane quarrels over the price of bread 
and taxes, During this time of quietude, an old and 
unexpected ally of Thordak’s, a green dragon called 
Raishan the Diseased Deceiver, found Thordak 
and conspired to release him from his prison so he 
could conquer the land that had once rebuked him. 
Raishan formed a plan and forged an unprecedented 
alliance with three other power-hungry chromatic 
dragons: Umbrasyl the Hope Devourer, Brimscythe 
the Iron Storm, and Vorugal the Frigid Doom. 
After infiltrating the Fire Ashari of Pyrah for 
nearly five years, Raishan finally unlocked the seal 
between the planes that bound Thordak and set him 
free. Thordak’s physical body was warped by the 
fiery energies of his prison, Now stronger than ever, 
he rallied his draconic allies, the Chroma Conclave, 
to destroy or conquer Tal'Dorei as they saw fit— 
starting with a retributive assault of catastropl 
proportions on Emon. Nearly three centuries of 
Tal’Dorei rule in the realm ended under the rule of 
Sovereign Uriel Tal'Dorei 
II, his life cut short when 
much of Emon was reduced to rubble. 
The attack not only killed the Sovereign Uriel, but 
also scattered the Council of Tal’Dorei, throwing 
the realm into chaos. The remnants of the civilized 
lands were divided up and taken as trophies by the 
Conclave, while the capital Emon was ruled by the

--- PAGE 23 ---
inder King himself, with Raishan secretly manipu- 
lating the course of his rule from the shadows. 
‘The Alabaster Lyceum need hardly introduce the 
heroes of this story. One by one, the members of 
the Conclave fell to the might and cleverness of 
a 
band of misfit warriors known as Vox Machina, their 
might bolstered by a number of the lost Vestiges of 
facts of incalculable power forged 
amidst the chaos of the Calamity. After many adven- 
tures, these heroes gathered their allies and stormed 
the capital of Emon, slaying Thordak the Cinder 
King and freeing its people. Upon discovering the 
machinations of the real mastermind, Raishan the 
Diseased Deceiver, with whom Vox Machina had 
held a tenuous alliance, they gave chase and finally 
slew this last standing member of the Chroma Con- 
clave, ending their reign over the land and restoring 
rule once more to the Council of Tal'Dorei. 
A FLEDGLING REPUBLIC 
The final act of Sovereign Uriel Tal’Dorei II's life 
was 
to abdicate the throne and end the line of sov- 
ereigns—permanently. To analyze the historic Last 
Sovereign's final acts is the duty of biographers, not 
chroniclers, yet it can readily be surmised that he 
saw flaws inherent to his station. Uriel was the son 
of Odellan Tat'Dorei, the sovereign who singlehand- 
edly prevented the council from swiftly handling the 
Cinder King when first he rose in the wilderness 
south of the empire, 
How could the Last Sovereign not feel that it was 
his office's immense power to overrule the council 
that ultimately cost thousands of loyal citizens their 
lives? How could he not compare the singular power 
of the sovereign to the abuses of power committed by 
King Drassig 
in ancient times? 
Regardless of his private feelings, Uriel II's last 
act as sovereign transformed his family’s imperial 
dynasty into the Republic of Tal'Dorei. Zan Tal'Dorei 
was reluctant to accept the singular role of rulership 
at the dawning of the nation, an ideal she had to 
compromise upon to ensure stability for her fledgling 
nation. Uriel's relinquishment of power is seen today 
as a fulfillment of that ideal, It will be the duty of 
future historians to judge if his decision stood the 
test of time, 
THE TIME OF REGROWTH 
The Tal'Dorei Council has guided the fate of the 
nation since Vox Machina slew the Cinder King. For 
most of the past two decades, the goal of the coun 
has been to rebuild that which was lost—and to 
assure far-flung territories that the nascent republic 
is just as stable as the empire ever was. 
Recovery has been slow in both Tal'Dorei's heart- 
land and its most distant reaches. Even though cities 
like Kymal and Stilben were not direct targets of the 
dragons’ rampage, the age of unrest that followed 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 24 ---
made these small cities easy targets for ransacking 
by roving bandits and corrupt magistrates alike. 
Even today, outlying settlements are slow to trust the 
good intentions of the Tal’Dorei Council. 
Major cities like Westruun and Emon have been 
the greatest beneficiaries of the Time of Regrowth, 
for even though they suffered the worst of the Con- 
clave's destruction, the dragons also kept their lairs 
close by, allowing vast amounts of plundered wealth 
from their treasure hoards to flow rapidly back into 
these 
cities’ coffers. Over the last twenty years, these 
cities have hired legions of arcanists to magically 
restore much of what was lost. 
However, perhaps the one city that can say it 
directly benefited from the Chroma Conclave 
reign of chaos is Whitestone, a formerly indepen- 
dent city-state that is now a member of the republi 
Whitestone took in countless refugees from Emon 
after the Conclave's initial attack, and countless 
more in the aftermath. Sequestered in Tal’ Dor 
cold northeastern reaches, Whitestone is an isolated 
city, but it has rapidly become a powerhouse of politi- 
cal, cultural, artistic, and economic influence—to the 
chagrin of some traditionalists in Emon. 
APOTHEOSIS THWARTED 
‘The world was troubled by a disturbance in Issylra 
a year after the Chroma Conclave's defeat, as a lich 
attempted to achieve godhood and crush the Dawn 
City of Vasselheim in one fell swoop. His success 
would have meant catastrophe for the Material 
Plane, leaving him the sole god on this side of the 
world’s impenetrable Divine Gate. However, beyond 
hearing news of Vox Machina’s involvement in this 
conflict, few in Tal'Dorei were concerned by rum- 
blings on the other side of the world. 
‘Though the lich’s defeat confined him to a remote 
demiplane, there is no way to strip him of his stolen 
ity. Occult worshipers yet scurry throughout 
Tal'Dorei's darkest corners, seeking the favor of a 
lich-god known as the Whispered One. 
SEEDS OF PERIL 
A generation has passed in relative peace. Yet all 
who have studied history know that each age's 
conflict sows the seeds of the next. The Republic of 
Tal'Dorei has proven 
it can prosper in peacetime, but 
it has yet to be tested by the pressures of war or a 
supernatural cataclysm. 
After two decades of expensive reconstruction 
and princely investments in skyship moorings, the 
Republic of Tal'Dorei is deeply indebted to arcanists 
across the land. Chief among them is the League of 
Miracles, a consortium of thaumaturgists who have 
claimed untold fortunes from reconstruction boun- 
ties all over the country. 
CHAPTER I: WELCOME TO TAL’DOREL 
The simple fact is that the cost of rebuilding 
Tal’Dorei was far more than the council or local 
leaders could afford to pay. Far be it from the Ala- 
baster Lyceum to cast aspersions on so beneficial an 
organization, but there are fears among the Tal'Dorei 
people that the league has already begun to collect 
‘on what they are owed in forms other than gold, as. 
more and more league mages receive preferential 
from local 
margraves 
and even 
of the Tal’Dorei Council itself. 
Beyond Emon, the landscape of Tal Dorei has been 
forever scarred by the presence of the Conclave, 
especially the Cinder King. His hellfire left marks 
on the land that will never heal—magical wounds 
that bleed fire and ooze chaotic magic. Smaller 
cities beyond the reach of the council have begun to 
succumb to 
sinister influences. Demons and devils 
craw! into the world, summoned by occult powers 
answering fell voices from beyond the Divine Gate. 
The Betrayer Gods sense weakness within the 
world. The entropic fury of the Chained Obliv- 
ion churns beneath Gatshadow. The lost blade of 
Neminar the Black-Fingered calls from the Umbra 
Hills for a new master. The Cloaked Serpent raises 
armies 
south of Syngorn. Cults of the now-divine 
Whispered One spread like poison through the veins 
of Tal’Dorei’s cities. 
Yet despite these threats, the legendary heroes 
of Vox Machina have largely set down their blades, 
guns, and spells and taken up the mantle of lead- 
ership. More than twenty years have passed since 
their greatest adventures, and though the surviving 
members of Vox Machina are still canny rulers and 
cunning warriors, the Tal’Dorei Council can no_ 
longer rely upon their skills as readily as they once 
did. Rumors of the heroes’ permanent retirement 
swirl, 
inspiring fear and nostalgic sorrow in many of 
the people—but adventurers across the land see this 
as an opportunity to rise to the level of Vox Machina 
and beyond. 
Tal'Dorei needs heroes—and this time, Vox 
Machina alone will not be enough. 
RUNNING A TAL’DOREI 
CAMPAIGN 
Tal'Dorei is more than just its history; do not treat 
this book as an encyclopedia, nor as shackles that 
bind you to portray its characters and environments 
with perfect fidelity. As you read this manual, con- 
jer why you want to run an RPG campaign set in 
Tal'Dorei, and in the larger world of Exandria. What 
about Critical Role inspires you as a Game Master? 
You might cherish the bonds of family and love 
between its many heroic characters. Perhaps you are 
drawn to the various factions that vie for power over 
Tal'Dorei’s peoples. Or perhaps it's the way that evils

--- PAGE 25 ---
24 
from Exandria's mythie 
past inevitably rear their ugly 
heads, always when circumstances are already at 
their most dire, that most captures your attention. 
No matter the initial spark that led you here, hold 
tight to it as you read, and search for ways to feed 
your personal flame of imagination. And when you 
are done, create. Create boldly, using these words as 
a launching point for your own tales. 
This section is for Game Masters’ eyes only, 
though GMs are welcome to share tidbits with 
their players to set the stage for the campaign, or to 
inspire them to create characters that will dovetail 
with the GM's story ideas. 
SECRETS OF TAL’DOREI 
‘The world of Exandria is steeped in familiar fantasy 
themes, with all the elves, dwarves, and wizards you 
might expect from a fantasy roleplaying game. But it 
also holds secrets that will challenge your expec- 
tations, and you may enjoy putting your own twists 
‘on these great mysteries of the world. Each of these 
secrets can form the backbone of an entire cam- 
paign, or can serve as flavor to create the impression 
of 
a world that is larger than just the player charac- 
ters’ story. 
ALL-POWERFUL, IMPRISONED GODS 
Tal'Dorei was nearly destroyed when the gods fought 
one another in the Calamity. Now, the Betrayer Gods 
are sealed in otherworldly prison planes, and the 
victorious Prime Deities live in self-imposed exile. 
An unbreakable barrier stands between the mortal 
and immortal realms. At best, a deity can grant their 
most skilled devotees a small measure of divine 
power to enact their will upon Exandria. 
However, there are a number of cults who yearn 
to circumvent this barrier and summon their dark 
patron onto the Material Plane. Others still seek to 
unravel the forgotten rites of ascension, just as the 
Matron of Ravens did in ancient times—just as the 
Whispered One did in living memory. What would 
happen if an omnipotent deity somehow managed 
to arise on the mortal side of the Divine Gate? Or 
even simply managed to fool the gods into thinking 
they had done so? Would the gods of good be forced 
to unleash their powers as one to break the Gate, 
unleashing another Calamity upon the world? 
DAWN OF A REPUBLIC 
It was the dying decree of Sovereign Uriel Tal’Dorei 
Ii that the continent-spanning Tal Dorei Empire be 
reborn as the Republic of Tal'Dorei. No more would 
a sovereign rule the myriad peoples of this land, but 
instead the wise Council of Tal'Dorei would enact 
the will of the people and protect them from the 
dangers of the world. But things don't always go 
according to plan. The nascent Republic of Tal Dorei 
is suffering growing pains, and unless some heroes 
are able to help, the realm may fall into anarchy 
and chaos. 
While fantasy politics isn't every gamer’s cup 
of tea, the struggles of the fledgling republic can 
serve several purposes. Players looking for fantasy 
intrigue can meddle in the 
internal politics of the city 
of Emon and root out corruption within the council, 
which may have been planted by any number 
of 
this land’s power-hungry factions, from the invasive 
crime syndicate known as the Myriad to the shadowy 
mages within the Arcana Pansophical who splin- 
tered off into a new schismatic faction, the League of 
Miracles. 
Game Masters can also use political elements 
to flavor or provide a backdrop for their otherwise 
action-focused games. On a smaller scale, corrupt 
margraves may hire bandits to 
pillage their own vil- 
lages, requiring heroes to step in. On a broader scale, 
a threat to the stability of the Republic of Tal'Dorei 
itself may force the characters to stop a megaloma- 
niac bent on conquering the republic from within. 
CRIMINAL SHADOW WAR 
A criminal syndicate known as the Clasp has lurked 
in Tal’Dorei’s underworld since the foundation of the 
old Tal'Dorei Empire. It's almost become a cliché, for 
people across the land know the Clasp as the stereo- 
typical face of organized crime. Novels romanticizing 
their allure have been adapted into stage plays and 
bard-song in all corners of the republic. 
And perhaps the Clasp has bought its own good 
publicity. After the Cinder King’s famous conquest 
of Emon some twenty years ago, it was the Clasp 
that saved countless innocent people and led them to 
safety through their extensive network of smuggling 
tunnels beneath the city. It was the organized action 
of criminals, just as much as Vox Machina's heroic 
power, which saved Tal’Dorei—and the Tal'Dorei 
Council knows it. The Clasp has gone mainstream. 
However, the Clasp is under threat from the 
Myriad, another criminal syndicate from the 
nearby continent of Wildemount. The Myriad sees 
Tal'Dorei’s slow legitimization of the Clasp as an 
opportunity to seize power in the nation's criminal 
underground. Violence is on the rise in Tal’Dorei’s 
cities as the Myriad uses local gangs as pawns in 
their bid to dethrone the Clasp. 
A LAND THRICE-DESTROYED 
First there was the Calamity, and the palaces of the 
gods were devoured by the earth. Then came the 
wars of Drassig, and his defeat at the hands of Zan 
Tal'Dorei. And then came Thordak. The Cinder King 
and the Chroma Conclave shook the very founda- 
tions of Tal'Dorei. Thordak “merely” reduced the city 
of Emon to slag, but through fear, panic, and malice, 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 26 ---
the flames of destruction were spread across the 
continent by mortal hands. Today, a generation after 
the dawning of the Republic of Tal'Dorei, the ruins of 
three civilizations lie buried beneath your feet, and 
some secrets long to be unearthed. 
MOTHER OF INVENTION 
Percival Fredrickstein von Musel Klossowski de 
Rolo IlI—Percy, to his friends—wanted to take the 
secrets of his inventions to his grave, especially the 
deadly power of his firearms, Unfortunately, because 
of his now-deceased archenemy Anna Ripley, the 
secret of gunpowder has begun to spread across 
Tal’Dorei. Now, isolated groups of tinkerers, both 
noble and unscrupulous are working to develop new 
technologies from Percival’s research, and other 
black powder technologies from Marquet. Some of 
these modern marvels 
will no doubt help the people 
of Exandria—but others, if placed in the wrong 
hands, are sure to enable the deaths of thousands. 
Renaissance technologies, especially firearms, are 
not common in Tal'Dorei. If you want to keep your 
fantasy purely medieval, it's a simple matter to ignore 
the tinkerers, gunsmiths, and budding industrialists 
scattered across the continent. 
UNCHARTED TERRITORY, 
The corners of Tal’Dorei’s maps are not all filled 
in. North of the Cliffkeep Mountains, the trackless 
Neverfields push up against the northern edge of the 
map. South of the Verdant Expanse is the Rifenmist 
Peninsula, where vast jungles and the brutal forces 
of the Iron Authority prevent any explorer from filling 
in the map’s southern tips. 
To help you create stories that feel at home in 
Tal'Dorei, chapter 3 of this book contains a num- 
ber of story hooks throughout its description of 
Tal’Dorei’s landscape and settlements. See “Creating 
Adventures” on page 193 for more information on 
how to turn these plot seeds into full adventures that 
you can run for your gaming group. 
While this book gives insight to one version of 
Exandria, 
its lore exists to serve you, not the other 
way around. Your campaign is your own creation—if 
you delight in adhering to Critical Role canon and 
delving into its lore, then by all means, dig deeper! 
If you like subverting expectations, revealing that 
things believed to be true were nothing but myth 
and rumor all along, tell that story! And, ifyou love 
characters and places from Critical Role, but want 
your stories to go to brand-new lands of your own 
creation, take inspiration from this book and steer 
your campaign in whatever direction you see fit. 
Never forget that you are the creator of your own 
version of Tal'Dorei. No matter who is playing at your 
table, even if 
it’s Matthew Mercer himself, no one can 
tell you that your vision of the world is inaccurate— 
because it’s yours now.

--- PAGE 28 ---
CHAPTER 
2: 
CHAPTER 2 
_ALLEGIANCES OE TAL DOREI 
‘The lands of Tal'Dorei are governed not just by their 
history, but by factions and faiths striving to achieve 
myriad goals, fighting for conflicting ideals, and 
vying for the power to come out on top. The gods of 
Exandria may be barred from walking upon the land 
in material form, but they can still put their thumbs 
on the scales of history through their mortal follow- 
ers. Such followers include clerics with the power 
to cast mighty spells, paladins who wield blades 
alight with idealistic verve, and untold thousands of 
common folk whose voices can affect the decisions of 
even the most powerful leaders of the land. 
A number of factions hold just as much sway over 
the daily lives of the people as the gods and their 
clergy—perhaps even more. These factions range in 
might and influence from the greatest of the great 
to the smallest of the small. The Tal'Dorei Council 
institutes political policies that affect everyone in 
grand, sweeping, and often inscrutable ways, while 
the Golden Grin is a group of folk heroes who seek to 
‘subvert evil across the land. Whether these factions 
are governments or just tiny organizations, they can 
add depth and conflict to your Tal'Dorei campaign. 
PANTHEON OF EXANDRIA 
During the Divergence, the Prime Deities created a 
powerful barrier between the Material Plane and the 
supernatural realms of the Outer Planes. This gate 
sealed all gods, including the evil Betrayer Gods, 
within their respective domains. If the Divine Gate 
were to be destroyed by the unanimous effort of 
the Prime Deities, all powers would be unleashed, 
threatening armageddon. Thus, the gods patiently 
watch their creations from beyond the veil, aiding 
their faithful with what small power they can send 
through the bas 
Some lesser idols, such as archdevils, demon 
lords, fiends and celestials of near-divine power, 
as well as a number 
of unaccounted-for demigods 
reside among the planes. They are affected by the 
Divine Gate, preventing them from crossing 
it of 
their own volition, yet are not so bound by it that they 
cannot be summoned by mortal magic. 
The following gods are recommended as the 
existing Exandrian pantheon, but they are only a 
recommendation, As long as the GM and the players 
agree, you are welcome to tailor, alter, or completely 
change the gods in your Tal'Dorei campaign to fit 
your needs, The domains listed are the likely choices 
for followers of that deity, but these are not the 
only options. 
ALLEGIANCES OF TAL’DOREI 
DIVINE DOMAINS 
Most clerics can gain their magic from a single god, 
or even from a number of gods that share domains 
or divine provinces. Ultimately, how your cleric 
serves the gods or their core religious philosophies 
is for you and your Game Master to discuss. Each 
god in this chapter has two or three Divine Domains 
from which many of their clerics are granted power. 
Nevertheless, almost all deities can have clerics 
who gain the power of any domain, if you and your 
Game Master agree. 
PRIME DEITIES 
Deity 
jgnment 
Province 
Changebringer 
Chaotic good 
Change, 
freedom, luck 
Platinum Dragon Lawful good 
Honor, justice 
Arch Heart 
Chaotic good 
Art, beauty, 
elves 
Lawbearer 
Lawful neutral 
Civilization, 
law, peace 
Knowing Mentor Neutral 
Knowledge, 
learning, 
teaching 
Stormlord 
Chaotic neutral Battle, competi- 
tion, storms, 
Wildmother 
Neutral 
Seas, wilderness 
All-Hammer 
Lawful good 
Craft, creation 
Dawnfather 
Neutral good Healing, 
sun 
Everlight 
Neutral good 
Atonement, 
compassion 
Matron 
of Ravens Lawful neutral Death, fate, 
winter 
Moonweaver 
Chaotic good 
_ilusion, 
moonlight, 
PRIME DEITIES 
The Prime Deities are the leaders and luminary 
creators that battled the Primordial Titans and 
instigated the Founding, forging the mortal races 
of Exandria. They hold sway over powers that 
represent a spectrum of sunlight, truth, moonlight, 
benevolent concealment, protection, love, death, 
and all other facets of freedom and life in the world, 
While these gods may disagree and squabble, they 
are united in an alliance dedicated to ensuring the

--- PAGE 29 ---
THE CHANGEBRINGER 
Also known as “She Who Makes the Path,” the 
Changebringer champions freedom, travel, trade, 
and adventure across the lands. Her will heralds 
open frontiers, and her call beckons her followers to 
discover that which awaits them beyond the known. 
There are few urban temples dedicated to the 
Changebringer, but her shrines are often found along 
well-traveled roads and on isolated wilderness hill- 
tops. Many merchants, adventurers, and free-spirited 
folk worship the Changebringer, and many a gala 
toast and tavern song celebrate her as a bringer of 
luck and fortune. 
Depiction. She is often depicted as a young 
woman of dark complexion and long, light brown 
hair that cascades to form the road left behind her. 
Most art shows her in constant motion, ever leading 
into the unknown. 
Divine Domains. Many of the Changebringer's 
clerics are granted powers of Moon, Nature, or 
Trickery. 
Holy Day. The Changebringer’s holy day, called 
New Dawn, takes place on the first day of the first 
month, when the old year gives way to the new. In 
Emon, the day of New Dawn is celebrated with a 
ht feast that commonly features a short 
ing the changes of the past year. 
COMMANDMENTS OF THE CHANGEBRINGER 
+ Luck favors the bold. Your fate is your own to 
grasp, and to do so is to have the Changebringer 
behind you. 
+ Change is inevitable. The righteous can ensure 
that such change is for the better. 
+ Rise up against tyranny. Fight for the freedom 
of yourself and others when you can, and inspire 
others to fight when you cannot. 
SYMBOL OFTHE CHANGEBRINGER 
THE PLATINUM DRAGON 
The pillar of justice, protection, nobility, and honor, 
the Platinum Dragon is a beacon to paladins of order 
and good, and is revered by most metallic dragons 
as the first of their kind, The crest of the Platinum 
Dragon adorns many halls of high leadership and 
judgment, invoking his 
will in all matters of justice. 
To follow him is to look after those who cannot look 
after themselves. 
Depiction. The Platinum Dragon is often seen 
emblazoned on shields and armor, both functional 
and decorative, in the form of a brilliant silver dragon 
head in profile. Temples and works of art depict a 
massive, glittering dragon with vibrant platinum 
scales and a 
wingspan that fades into etherealness. 
Divine Domains. Many of the Platinum Dragon's 
clerics are granted powers of Life, Order, or War. 
Holy Day. The Platinum Dragon's holy day is 
called Embertide and is celebrated on the fifth day of 
the eleventh month. This is a day of remembrance, 
solemnity, and respect for those who have fallen in 
the defense of others. 
COMMANDMENTS OF THE PLATINUM DRAGON 
+ Stand as 
a paragon of honor and justice. 
+ Smite evil wherever it is found, yet show compas- 
sion to those who have strayed from righteousness. 
+ Defend the weak, bring freedom to the persecuted, 
and protect the ideals of justice and order. 
SYMBOL OFTHE 
PLATINUM DRAGON 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 30 ---
THe ARCH HEART 
Guardiaf of spring, beauty, and the arts, the Arch 
Heart is the patron of arcane magic, elves, and the 
fey. The Founding inspired them to wander the 
t 
ted lands, seeding them with the first arcane 
magics and raising the most ancient of forests. It was 
by the Arch Heart's hand that the first elves wan- 
dered from the Fey Realm, and for this reason, they 
are considered the Parent of all elves. Those who. 
seek art in all of their work, whether magic or mun- 
dane, often worship at the altar of the Arch Heart. 
They loathe the Spider Queen and her priestesses 
for leading the drow astray. 
Depiction. Most modern tapestries and tomes 
depict the Arch Heart as a genderless elf of impos- 
sible grace and beauty, androgynous and alluring, 
framed by long, wavy, golden hair. The Arch Heart 
inspired many early elven art pieces, and elements 
of their visage or symbol are included in most elven 
architecture. 
Divine Domains. Many of the Arch Heart's clerics 
are granted powers of Arcana, Nature, 
or Light. 
Holy Day. The Arch Heart's holy day is called 
Elvendawn, or Midsummer. It's celebrated on the 
twentieth day of the sixth month, and commemo- 
rates the elves’ first emergence from the Fey Realm. 
In Syngorn, the elves build magical wards, open 
small doorways into the Fey Realm, and celebrate 
with uncharacteristic vigor with the wild fey. 
COMMANDMENTS OF THE ARCH HEART 
Create, inspire, 
and find beauty 
in all that you do. 
Follow the echoes of lost magic, forgotten sites, 
and ancient art, for within these lie the Arch 
Heart's first works. 
Combat the followers of the Spider Queen wher- 
ever they may be, 
SYMBOL OFTHE 
ARCH HEART 
CHAPTER 2: ALLEGIANCES OF TAL’DOREL 
Pair, 
THE LAWBEARER 
The driving inspiration behind many great inven- 
tions, the creation of vast cities, and law and order 
within society, the Lawbearer claims dominion over 
civilization, Judges and lawful rulers pay respect at 
her temples, which are central structures in major 
cities around the world. Peace and order—through 
structure and law—guide the will of her devout fol- 
lowers. The Lawbearer has a tempestuous romance 
with the Wildmother, a furious love that is only tem- 
pered when civilization and nature are in balance. 
Civil unrest and riots blossom within her beloved 
cities in these times of imbalance. 
Depiction. Illustrations and statues show the 
Lawbearer as a hooded, armored woman with light 
brown skin and a strong, 
lithe body, sitting atop a 
throne of pillars. Her face is generally obscured or 
depicted without expression, giving her presence an 
impartial yet imposing nature. 
Divine Domains. Many of the Lawbearer’s clerics 
are granted powers of Knowledge or Order. 
Holy Day. The Lawbearer’s holy day is Civi 
zation's Dawn, and is celebrated on the autumnal 
equinox, usually the twenty-second day of the ninth 
month. In Emon, each neighborhood celebrates by 
dancing around great bonfires in the square and 
giving gifts to celebrate their community. 
COMMANDMENTS OF THE LAWBEARER 
+ Utilize the company and aid of others. The efforts 
of the individual often pale against the capabilities 
‘of community. 
+ Strive to tame the wilds in the name of civilization, 
and defend the points of light and order against the 
chaos of darkness. 
+ Uphold and revere the spirit of invention. Create 
new settlements, build where inspiration strikes, 
and expand the edicts of the Lawbearer. 
29

--- PAGE 31 ---
THE KNOWING MENTOR 
Revered by seers, sages, and teachers of all walks 
of life, the Knowing Mentor guided the growth of 
civilization throughout the Age of Arcanum like 
sunlight guides the branches of a tree. Her teachings 
were silenced when she was grievously wounded 
by the Chained Oblivion during the Calamity, and 
though she survived and went into hiding behind the 
Divine Gate, her followers are hunted by agents of 
her ancient foes to this day. Her devout now worship 
in private, spreading knowledge, philosophy, and lore 
anonymously through traceless channels. 
The one exception are the scholars of the Cobalt 
Soul (see page 58), an international organization 
of knowledge-seekers, spies, and archivists that seek 
to reveal the truth at all costs. Most members of the 
Cobalt Soul aren't zealous worshipers of the Know- 
ing Mentor, but still pay homage to her in some form. 
Depiction. Common representations show the 
Knowing Mentor as a greying, mature woman of 
welcoming, matronly smile swathed in billowing 
robes and scarves that fan into books and scrolls. 
Some call her the Knowing Mistress, revering her as 
a headmistress of knowledge among the gods. 
Divine Domains. Many of the Knowing Mentor's 
clerics are granted powers of Arcana, Knowledge, 
or Twilight. 
Holy Day. The Knowing Mentor has no public holy 
day, for her public worship was shattered during the 
Calamity, and she has since fallen into halfremem- 
bered myth. Only in Emon has the Knowing Mentor’s 
faith been publicly resurrected—though her worship 
by the intellectuals of the city bears little resem- 
blance to that of the knowledge-seekers of old. 
COMMANDMENTS OF THE KNOWING MENTOR 
+ Unmask those who would destroy the Knowing 
Mentor. Learn their secrets and unveil them to 
the world. 
Uphold and teach the importance of reason, 
perception, and truth in guiding one’s emo- 
tions and path. 
Condemn those who lie without moral cause, for 
evil folk gain power when their followers obscure 
the truth. Never stoop to the level of selfish liars. 
THE STORMLORD 
Where thunder cracks and conflict rises, prayers 
to the Stormlord are shouted 
into the maelstrom. 
Reveling in all tests of strength, the blessing of the 
Stormlord finds those that prove themselves on the 
battlefield. Worshiped by athletes and warriors all 
across Exandria, he exalts those whose force of 
spirit and passion for victory call his attention. He 
brings tumultuous storms over land and sea, and 
those who wish for clearer skies offer their praises 
and prayers to appease him. 
Depiction. Within his temples and carvings, the 
Stormlord is shown as a quintessential warrior, 
often nude with a beard and short, curly hair. As the 
epitome of muscle and strength, most art depicts the 
‘Stormlord in a stance of dominance, typically assert- 
ing his power by wrestling a terrible beast. 
Divine Domains. Many of the Stormlord’s clerics 
are granted powers of Tempest or War. 
Holy Day. The Stormlord's holy day is the Day 
of Challenging, and it is celebrated on the seventh 
day of the second month. The Day of Challenging is 
one of the most raucous holidays in Emon, and thou- 
sands of spectators attend the annual Godsbrawl 
held in the Temple of the Stormlord to root for their 
favored deity's champion, particularly the chosen of 
the Stormlord and the Platinum Dragon. 
COMMANDMENTS OF THE STORMLORD 
+ Bravery above all. There is no glory in cowardice. 
+ Strength is the path to greatness, but greatness is 
the responsible use of strength. 
+ The glory of the Stormlord lives through your own 
glory on the battlefield. 
Si WB0L OFTHE STORNLORD 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 32 ---
THE 
WILDMOTHER 
The realm of the Wildmother extends to wherever 
the seas shift and the land grows over. As the keeper 
of the wilderness, she represents the wild creatures, 
of nature, the rush of the angry rapids, and the heat- 
heavy stillness of the desert. Hunters, druids, and 
nomads worship her, seeking her blessing to live in 
harmony with lands that still bear their wild fangs. 
Likewise, those seeking safe passage across danger- 
ous waters pray to her to guide them. 
The druids of the Wildmother 
and clerics of her 
lover, the Lawbearer, work together to preserve the 
balance of nature and civilization. It is said that the 
two goddesses grow furious when this balance is 
upset, and this fury manifests as devastating natural 
disasters. Clerics of the Matron of Ravens also pay 
homage to the Wildmother, for the work she begins 
is the work that their deity must respectfully end. 
Depiction. Immortalized through wooden reliefs 
and carved idols in hidden, overgrown groves and 
rural shrines, the Wildmother is shown as a beau- 
tiful woman with green or deep brown skin nearly 
swallowed by a wild, tangled wreath of hair, leaves, 
and vines that envelop her strong, full-figured form. 
Divine Domains. Many of the Wildmother's cler- 
ies are granted powers of Life, Nature, or Tempest. 
Holy Day. The Wildmother's holy day is Wild’s 
Grandeur, and is celebrated on the vernal equinox, 
usually the twentieth day of the third month. The 
people of the southern 
wilds honor the Wildmother 
by journeying to a place of great natural beauty, 
like the top of 
a mountain waterfall or the center 
of 
a desert. Wild's Grandeur is rarely celebrated in 
Emon, but some folk will plant trees in observance of 
the holiday. 
COMMANDMENTS OF THE WILDMOTHER 
Protect the untamed wilderness from exploitation 
and destruction. 
Slay abominations and other mockeries of nature. 
Embrace and respect that which you cannot con- 
trol in this world. Exist in harmony with it. 
SYMBOL OFTHE 
 ILOMOTHER 
CHAPTER 
2: ALLEGIANCES 
OF TAL’DOREL 
THE ALL-HAMMER 
The patron of craft and creation, the All-Hammer is 
worshipped by smiths, artisans, and miners alike, 
granting inspiration where respect and prayer are 
given. He shaped the mountains from the chaos of 
the Founding, and stands as the patron protector 
of home and family. Devotion to the All-Hammer 
is strongest in dwarven communities, and many of 
his temples mark the center of 
a mighty dwarven 
stronghold. 
Depiction. Many guildhalls and workshops 
contain images of the All-Hammer, a faceless, 
stout dwarf of immense strength, hunched over a 
flaming heart clasped within his massive hands. The 
: 
All-Hammer's dwarven appearance is consistent 
across Tal'Dorei, with some exceptions. Other cul- 
i 
tures that pride themselves on their metallurgy, like 
the fire giant enclave of Vulkanon (see page 220), 
depict the All-Hammer as one of their own—in this 
case, a faceless giant with a flaming mane. 
Divine Domains. Many of the All-Hammer’s cler~ 
ics are granted powers of Forge, Knowledge, or War. 
Holy Day. The All-Hammer's holy day is Deep 
Solace, celebrated on the eighteenth day of the fifth 
month. Especially devout followers of the All-Ham- 
mer spend the day in isolation, meditating on the 
meaning of family 
and how they may be better 
mothers, fathers, siblings, and children, Dwarven 
communities in Kraghammer and abroad celebrate 
with a full day of feasting and drinking. 
COMMANDMENTS OF THE ALL-HAMMER 
+ Remain stoic and tenacious in the face of 
catastrophe. 
+ Uphold and promote loyalty to your family, loyalty 
to your clan, and loyalty to your people. 
+ Legacy is paramount. To create something that 
lasts is to change the world for the better. 
OFTHE A 
a 
3

--- PAGE 33 ---
THE DAWNFATHER 
The Dawnfather rules over sun and summer, and his. 
vigil encircles the ages as the keeper of time. As the 
lord of agriculture and harbinger of the harvest, he 
is worshiped by farmers and most common folk, and 
his priests are welcome in lands all over. Supporter 
of the needy and destroyer of evil, the Dawnfather 
is often the patron of paladins and rangers who 
follow a similar creed. The Dawnfather is mythically 
renowned for his defeat of the Chained Oblivion and 
is revered by those who hunt aberrations. 
Depiction. Tapestries of old match early texts 
describing the Dawnfather as a kindly patriarch clad 
in silver and gold armor, his head a beacon of light 
and fire so bright that his face can barely be seen. 
Many statues in holy places use the Dawnfather’s 
head as a brazier, lit with each dawn and extin- 
guished with the dusk. 
Divine Domains. Many of the Dawnfather's cler- 
ies are granted powers of Life, Light, or Nature, 
Holy Day. The Dawnfather's holy day is called 
Highsummer and takes place on the fifteenth day 
of the seventh month. In Emon, the entire week is 
celebrated with gift-giving and feasting. Festivities 
begin on Highsummer day and end at midnight on 
the twenty-first, the day that Zan Tal’Dorei dethroned 
Trist Drassig at the Battle of the Umbra Hills. In 
Whitestone, the feast of Highsummer is celebrated 
with gifts and a festival of lights around the Sun 
Tree. Most folk choose to spend Highsummer with 
their family, recounting the small things they are 
thankful for. 
COMMANDMENTS OF THE DAWNFATHER 
Be ever vigilant for evil. People are quick to forget 
the lessons of the past. 
Help relieve the suffering of the innocent. 
Deliver the light of the Dawnfather where dark- 
ness dwells, and do so with kindness, compassion, 
and mercy. 
32 
THE EVERLIGHT 
God of compassion and redemption, the Everlight 
bears a divine message of determination and com- 
passion, even in the darkest of times. She believes 
that the corrupt can be redeemed, a mindset that led 
toa betrayal by the Lord of the Hells, who decimated 
her followers during the Calamity. Only recently 
has her faith been rediscovered and her temples 
returned to prominence. The Everlight's followers 
are often rural healers and community philosophers, 
offering voices of reason and empathy in angry and 
cynical times. 
Depiction. Those who rise to bring the Everlight’s 
words back to the light either unearth her image 
from ruined temples or create new art to 
inspire 
others with her message. She is represented as a 
beautiful, strong woman with dark skin and light 
hair, rising betwixt a set of angelic ivory wings. 
Divine Domains. Many of the Everlight’s clerics 
are granted powers of Life, Light, or Peace. 
Holy Day. The Everlight’s holy day has long been 
forgotten, and her followers have yet to decide when 
her festival should be held, or even what the festivi- 
ties should be. The debate has gone on for years, and 
no great miracles have yet been performed to unify 
the squabbling clerics. 
COMMANDMENTS OF THE EVERLIGHT 
Lead with mercy, patience, and compassion. 
Inspire others to unite in fellowship. 
Aid those who are without guide. Heal those who 
are without hope. 
+ Those who are beyond redemption, who revel in 
slaughter and remorseless evil, must be dispatched 
with swift justice. 
THE MATRON OF RAVENS 
Master of the skein of fate and the mistress of winter, 
the Matron of Ravens is the god of death. Her gaze 
follows and marks the end of each mortal life, watch- 
ing over the transition between life and death—and 
ensuring that the natural transition is undefiled. 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 34 ---
Mourners at funerals across the land invoke her 
blessing in hopes that she will protect the deceased 
from the terrible curse of undeath. 
Keepers of ancient lore believe the Matron of 
Ravens was once mortal herself, and thus the only 
mortal known to have ascended to godhood—before 
the rise of the Whispered One, at least. Her rise 
instantly obliterated the previous, now-forgotten 
god of death, and in its wake, the other gods quickly 
and fearfully destroyed the secrets to the rites of, 
ascension. 
Depiction. There are very few visual depictions 
of the Matron of Ravens; many temples simply use 
the raven as a symbol of her blessing. Rare images, 
however, portray the Matron herself 
as a tall, pale 
woman wrapped in dangling black linens, her 
onyx-black hair straight and never-ending, her face 
obscured by a white porcelain mask. 
Divine Domains, Many of the Matron of Ravens’s 
clerics are granted powers of Death, Grave, or 
Twilight. 
Holy Day. The Matron of Ravens’s holy day is the 
Night of Ascension, which celebrates her apotheosis. 
The actual date of the goddess's rise to divinity is 
unclear, but the Night of Ascension is nonetheless 
celebrated on the thirteenth day of the tenth month. 
Many people of Emon see this cheery celebration 
of the dead to be unnerving and macabre, but the 
Matron's followers believe that the honored dead 
would rather be venerated with cheer 
than misery. 
The Matron of Ravens is also considered by some 
to be the patron of Winter's Crest, a holiday that 
celebrates freedom from Errevon the Rimelord and 
is observed in Tal’Dorei on the twentieth day of the 
eleventh month. 
COMMANDMENTS OF THE MATRON OF RAVENS 
+ Death is the natural end of life. Grieve the fallen, 
but do not pity them. Exult in the time that they 
were granted. 
The path of Fate is sacrosanct. Those who pride- 
fully cast off destiny must be punished. 
Undeath is an atrocity. Death is too good a punish- 
ment for those who pervert the rightful transition 
of the soul. 
TAL’DOREL 
CHAPTER 2: ALLEGIANCES 
OF 
THE MOONWEAVER 
‘The Moonweaver is the god of moonlight and the 
autumn season, as well as the patron of illusion and 
misdirection, Widely worshipped in halfling and 
elven culture, she is also considered to be the deity 
of love, shielding the trysts of lovers in shadows of 
her own making. Those who work in darkness and 
trickery often ask for her blessing. 
Depiction. Depictions of the Moonweaver are as 
humerous as the myths and stories of her meddling 
within simple unions. However, she is most often 
painted as a young girl of light-blue skin and white 
hair, with a body and limbs that dissolve into silky 
strands of silver moonlight, caressing and creating 
the edges of the shadows. 
Divine Domains. Many of the Moonweaver’s cler- 
ies are granted powers of Arcana, Moon (see page 
169), or Twilight. 
Holy Day. The Moonweaver has no holy day, 
but is celebrated by most elves on the night of the 
decade's largest full moon, Elven astronomers track 
the moon's phases and how it grows closer and 
farther to Exandria, and can predict these days with 
great accuracy. Many high and haughty elves use 
this festival as an excuse to be sly and mischievous; 
some younger elves use costumes and illusions to 
prank their peers, The wyvern-riding skyswimmers 
of Lyrengorn, however, venerate the Moonweaver in 
their own way: 
with the annual arrival of the Moon- 
weaver's Ribbons, a majestic aurora that illuminates 
the skies above the Elvenpeaks. 
COMMANDMENTS OF THE MOONWEAVER 
+ Seize your own destiny and pursue your 
own passions. 
+ Let the shadows protect you from the burning light 
of fanaticism and the absolute darkness of despair. 
Walk unbridled and untethered, forging new mem- 
ories and experiences.

--- PAGE 35 ---
«4 
BETRAYER GODS 
The Betrayer Gods are the deities who strayed 
from the ideals of the Founding and embraced the 
destructive chaos of the Primordials. The Betrayer 
Gods rarely work together, for they see one 
another as threats to their own goals. This very 
weakness allowed the Prime Deities to defeat and 
banish them, ending the Calamity. 
Depiction. A twisted image of the celestial blood 
that once bore him, the Lord of the Hells is portrayed 
in many tomes and murals as a handsome humanoid 
with deep red skin and long black hair. Two curling 
horns rise from his crowned brow, and his 
lips bear 
an eternal, knowing grin. 
Divine Domains. Many of the Lord of the Hells’ 
clerics are granted powers of Order, Trickery, or War. 
Enemies. The Lord of the Hells’ 
numerous, even among the Betrayer Gods, many 
of whom only follow him for fear of his immense 
power. His archnemesis is the Changebringer, whose 
enemies are 
and cunning has vexed him throughout the 
eons. It was she who defeated him in the Calam- 
ity by tricking his fiendish armies into attacking 
The Devil Lord's greatest triumph during the 
Calamity was fooling and betraying the Ever- 
light and slaughtering all her followers in one fell 
BETRAYER GODS 
Deity 
i 
Lord of the Hells Lawful evil 
God of devils 
and the Hells 
one another, 
Strife Emperor 
Lawful evil 
Conquest, tyranny 
The Ruiner 
_—Chaoticevil_ 
Slaughter, warfare 
Spider Queen 
Chaotic evil 
Deceit, spiders 
Chained Oblivion Chaotic evil 
Darkness, destruction 
Scaled Tyrant 
Lawful evil 
Dragon god of evil 
Crawling King 
Neutral evil 
Enslavement, torture 
Whispered One Neutral evil 
Necromancy, secrets 
Cloaked Serpent Chaotic evil 
Assassins, 
poison, snakes 
THE LORD OF THE HELLS 
‘The devil god of the Hells is the master of tyranny 
and domination, and was the first to instill hi 
potic will 
into celestials, creating the first devi 
words are honeyed and carefully crafted, soothing 
and corrupting the hearts of mortals and immortals 
alike. The Lord of the Hells rules his domain with 
an iron fist, and the punishments awa 
cross him are the stuff of 
pay him tribute right alongside his devils, and many 
warlocks are drawn to his power. 
stroke—a move that today has united the followers 
of the Everlight and the Changebringer in a bond of 
unbreakable fellows! 
COMMANDMENTS OF THE LORD OF THE HELLS 
Assert dominance and power over others. Show 
your strength of will in the image of your Lord. 
Repay cruelty done unto you with further evil. If 
others show you kindness, exploit it 
As you ascend to power, do not pity or show mercy 
to those you climb over to get there. The weak do 
not warrant your compassion—compassion itself 
is 
a weakness. 
THE STRIFE EMPEROR 
Blood-drenched armies of brutal warriors oft crush 
their foes in the name of the Strife Emperor, the 
patron of warfare and conquest. To serve 
his will is 
to accept the call to conflict, seeking lesser people to 
break and subjugate. Warmongers worship the Strife 
Emperor as they strike out at the world to bend it 
beneath them. 
The Strife Emperor twists all living things to his 
iron will, even forcing nature itself to bow to hi 
whims. During the Calamity, he grew his armies not 
by rallying demons, but by corrupting noble crea- 
tures into monsters and by destroying the wilds to 
fuel his engines of war. 
Depiction. The Strife Emperor is often depicted 
asa 
brutish, ogre-like man clad from head to toe in 
jagged black armor. Heads dangle from his belt, and 
the shadows that obscure his helmeted face do not 
hide his unblinking yellow eyes. 
Those who long for conquest often see their own 
people as superior to all others. Thus, somewhat 
appropriately, depictions of the Strife Emperor are 
fous 
and 
myriad: 
he is usually 
p. 
asa 
member of whatever race currently bears his banner. 
In the Republic of Tal'Dorei, his face most often has 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 36 ---
a human cast, for King Drassig's bloodline paid him 
tribute long ag 
Divine Domains. Many of the Strife Emper- 
or's clerics are granted powers of the Forge, 
Order, or War. 
Enemies. The Strife Emperor's greatest enemy 
is the Wildmother, who defeated him in Rifenmist 
during the Calamity. In turn, he is also despised 
by her beloved, the Lawbearer, for perverting the 
benevolent rule of law into the manacles of authori- 
tarianism, The Strife Emperor and the Wildmother 
clashed many times during the war before his final 
defeat at Beynsfal Plateau. His massive iron armor 
is still scattered across Beynsfal, and his 
gigantic 
helmet has become the seat of a ruthless empire. 
COMMANDMENTS OF THE STRIFE EMPEROR 
Fear is your ally. Conquer your fear, and inspire it 
in your foes. 
Disorder and rebellion are to be punished severely. 
+ Tokillis 
life’s greatest pleasure, and perfecting the 
art of slaughter is life's greatest pursuit. 
The Strife Emperor is also known as the progen- 
itor of the Curse of Strife (see “Betrayer Curses” 
on page 39). 
THE RUINER 
The Ruiner commands roving hordes of barbaric 
marauders across the lands to destroy, pillage, and 
slaughter for the joy of it. Orderless and without 
honor, the creeds of the evil lord goad alll living crea- 
tures to shrug off the oppressive chains of courtesy 
and civilization and to devour the world around 
them, giving in to the chaotic and selfish nature of 
the predator. 
As civilization rises, people of all cultures feel the 
draw of the uncomplicated, primeval world. Some 
find their way to the loving embrace of the Wild 
mother and her sects, going on to live in harmony 
with nature. Others fall into the cruel thrall of the 
Ruiner and his bloody cults of slaughter. In Tal'Dorei, 
SYMBOL OF THE STRIFE EMPEROR 
CHAPTER 2: ALLEGIANCES 
OF TAL’DOREL 
the worst of these cults are the Ravagers, the 
scounge of the Dividing Plains (see page 249). 
Depiction. Simple clay representations in 
communities of the Ruiner's followers show him 
as a hulking, bulbous behemoth of 
an orc, His 
missing eye has shifted, the prominent remaining 
eye now centered in his face like that of a nightmar- 
ish cyclops. 
Divine Domains. Many of the Ruiner’s clerics are 
granted powers of Death, Tempest, or War. 
Enemies. The Arch Heart shot out the Ruin- 
r’s right eye during the Calamity, and the god of 
slaughter longs for the day he can return the favor 
twofold. Likewise, the Ruiner is a dark 
mirror of 
the Wildmother, and his hatred for her kindness is 
surpassed only by his lust for vengeance against the 
Arch Heart. 
COMMANDMENTS OF THE RUINER 
+ Ruin. Ravage. Kill, 
The weak exist to be crushed by the strong. Be 
the strong. 
There are no emotions but fury and joy. The rest 
are weakness. 
The Ruineris also known as the progenitor of the 
Curse of Ruin (see “Betrayer Curses” on page 39). 
THE SPIDER QUEEN 
The god of deceit, shadows, and spiders, the Spider 
Queen weaves a complicated web of schemes and 
treachery through her worshipers, deceiving allies 
and enemies alike to gain power. The Spider Queen's 
worship is entwined 
with the society of dark elves 
across much of Exandria, even as the drow fall ever 
deeper into the thrall of the Chained Oblivion's aber- 
rant minions. It is said that the Spider Queen can see 
through the eyes of all spiders and that she is truly 
all-knowing. 
A mysterious faction of elves from Wildemount, 
the Kryn Dynasty, escaped this evil god’s thrall in 
ancient times. This civilization’s geographical isola- 
tion from Tal'Dorei keeps communication between 
SYMBOL OF THE RUINER 
35

--- PAGE 37 ---
them limited, but a small number 
of Kryn dark elves 
have traveled to Tal'Dorei to investigate the subter- 
ranean tunnels beneath the Stormerest Mountains 
(see page 112). 
Depiction. Ancient icons and idols dedicated to 
the Spider Queen show an alluring woman with deep 
purple skin and silver hair, her abdomen swelling 
into the terrifying body of a monstrous spider. Her 
depictions are highly polarized between her elite dev- 
tees and her wretched supplicants. They are either 
‘opulent gilded statues, or deranged cave paintings. 
Divine Domains. Many of the Spider Queen's 
clerics are granted powers of Knowledge or Trickery. 
Enemies. The Spider Queen holds a searing 
grudge against the Stormlord, for with one throw of 
his mighty thunderspear, he impaled her against a 
cliffside, leaving her drow armies leaderless during 
the Calamity. The Spider Queen and the Ruiner also 
share a burning hatred for the Arch Heart, whom she 
s drove her children below the earth. Despite 
their shared enemy, the Spider Queen often manip- 
ulates the Ruiner’s followers into attacking her foes, 
So that the drow may remain safe. The only being the 
Queen fears is the Chained Oblivion; she dreads its 
alien mind and is 
furious about how its madness has 
gripped her children. 
COMMANDMENTS OF THE SPIDER QUEEN 
+ Itis better to be loved than feared, but you may 
certainly try to be both. 
+ Misdirection, slander, and shadowed steps have 
more function than direct conflict. 
+ Death to the elves who live under the sun, and 
death to all their allies! 
THE CHAINED OBLIVION 
Itis darkness unending, less like a god and more like 
another world of malevolent, alien intelligence. Life 
and death do not exist within the Chained Oblivios 
only the absolute end of all things. Few minds can 
comprehend the depth of oblivion. Most who do are 
so completely lost to 
tic despair or denial that 
SYMBOL OF THE 
SpipeR QUEEN 
they devote the rest of their lives to hastening the end 
of this reality so that it may be swallowed up by the 
great inevitability: utter, tenebrous cold. 
Even the other Betrayer Gods treat the Oblivion 
with caution. In its endless imprisonment, it dreams 
nightmarish aberrations into existence, deep beneath 
Exandria. The Chained Oblivion’s demented cultists 
work without word from their twisted patron, await- 
ing the Epoch of Ends, when its freedom will be 
attained and all beings shall be consumed in death- 
lessness unending. 
Depiction. Few visual attempts to depict the 
Chained Oblivion exist, but texts describe a creature 
of roiling ink and hungry darkness, a spreading 
cloud of lightless destruction born from a thousand 
ravenous mouths. Current references show the night- 
mare constrained by chains of black and gold, barely 
keeping the dark at bay. 
Divine Domains. Many of the Chained Obliv- 
ion's clerics are granted powers of Death, Grave, 
or Trickery. 
Enemies. The few remaining followers of the 
Knowing Mentor, who was gravely wounded by 
the Oblivion in ancient times, are dedicated to 
ensuring 
that the Chained Oblivion is never again 
unchained. Their goddess led the charge against the 
all-consuming god’s reemergence, and her bravery 
allowed the other Prime Deities 
to shackle their 
enemy, though the victory nearly cost the Mentor her 
immortal life. Some say the Knowing Mentor can 
only be fully restored if the Chained Oblivion is fully 
destroyed—for good. 
(COMMANDMENTS OF THE CHAINED OBLIVION 
+ Offer light and life into its all-consuming maw so 
that it may surpass all divinities and be freed. 
+ Uncover, restore, and exalt forgotten shrines and 
relics in its honor. 
+ Ruin and raze the realms 
to hasten the arrival of 
the Epoch of Ends. 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTIN REBORN 
- 
<8

--- PAGE 38 ---
ae 
THE SCALED TYRANT 
The evil queen of dragons is a fearsome god of greed, 
envy, and hoarded wealth. While chromatic dragons 
are her foremost worshipers, the Scaled Tyrant 
accepts the worship of any who crave wealth. All 
chromatic dragons have a fearful reverence for their 
tyrannical queen, but many dragons of near-deific 
power and ambition chafe under her rule, Though 
the Scaled Tyrant was pleased by the devastation 
that the Chroma Conclave spread across Exandria, 
the prideful Conclave never considered themselves 
subservient to the Dragon Queen. 
Depiction. Most 
visual representations of the 
Scaled Tyrant exist as warnings within sanctuaries 
of the Platinum Dragon. She is shown as a dragon 
of frightful size with five vicious dragon heads, each 
one a chromatic color of her evil children. Massive, 
leathery wings sprout from her back, spreading 
clouds of poisonous mist. 
Divine Domains. Many of the Scaled Tyrant’s 
clerics are granted powers of Order, Trickery, or War. 
Enemies. The Scaled Tyrant's hatred for the Plat- 
inum Dragon is as old as 
the Founding, and her cults 
are ever-hunted by his justice. 
For centuries, the 
zealous paladins of the Platinum Dragon have lim- 
ited the Tyrant's worship to the chromatic dragons, 
but sects of humanoid dragon-worshipers appeared 
in the wake of the Chroma Conclave's destruction of 
Emon, and have been secretly keeping her faith alive 
in the generation since the Conclave’s defeat. Some 
Tal'Dorei oligarchs have even turned to the Scaled 
‘Tyrant in secret, as their hoarded wealth begins to 
run dry, 
sapped by the immense cost of rebuilding 
what was lost to the Conclave. 
COMMANDMENTS OF THE SCALED TYRANT 
+ Amass wealth, but spend little. The gold—and 
the power that comes with it—is sufficient reward 
initself. 
+ Do not forgive nor forget an indignity to yourself. 
Let no affront go unpunished. 
+ Take what you covet. Those without the strength to 
defend their dominion are not worthy of it. 
SYMBOL OF THE SCALED TYRANT 
CHAPTER 2: ALLEGIANCES 
OF TAL’DOREI 
THE CRAWLING KING 
The god of the endless tunnels and caverns beneath 
Exandria, the Crawling King is patron to torturers, 
slavers, and jailers across the realms. The furi- 
ous, molten tears he wept upon his defeat carved a 
network of infinite subterranean pathways beneath 
Exandria—and in the vastness of the Outer Planes, 
plane of imprisonment is a realm of logic-defy- 
ing caves and grasping manacles from which few 
return alive. 
Those who rob others of their freedom offer 
prayers to him in cellars and other subterranean 
domains, and other creatures who live in the dark: 
ness below worship him and seek his guidance, 
Depiction. The Crawling King is rendered as a 
swollen, malformed worm that lithers through the 
dark below, with a screaming, hairless human head 
and three arms carving through the lightless rock. 
Divine Domains. Many of the Crawling 
King’s 
clerics are granted powers of Death or Trickery. 
Enemies. The Dawnfather and the Everlight 
defeated the Crawling King during the Calamity by 
luring their nemesis above ground. The Dawnfather 
pierced his tenebrous body with ten thousand lances 
of sunlight, and the Everlight imprisoned him beyond 
the boundaries of Exandria within her serene rays, 
The tears of pain and anger the Crawling King shed 
burned through Exandria, and his faithful fled into 
these tunnels to escape their 
enemies’ holy light. 
COMMANDMENTS OF THE CRAWLING KING 
+ Seek and exalt places where no light touches, 
+ Revel in the pain you inflict upon others, and relish 
the pain you suffer yourself 
as an offering to the 
Crawling King. 
+ Imprison those who cannot resist you, and drag all 
life into the darkness.

--- PAGE 39 ---
THE WHISPERED ONE 
The pain of defeat is cruel indeed. Twenty-four years 
ago, a cult known as the Remnants rose up against 
the world, led by an undead archmage known as 
the Whispered One. This lich had toiled in secret 
for years within the Plane of Shadow, constructing 
the towering citadel of Thar Amphala there, while 
secretly spreading his poison throughout the storied 
lands of Issylra. His goal was simple: repeat the lost 
rites of ascension that the Matron of Ravens used in 
the Age of Arcanum to become a god—and this time, 
to be on the opposite side of the Divine Gate, so that 
he could rule the world, 
His ascension was successful, but the new god 
was ultimately banished behind the Divine Gate 
by the intervention of Vox Machina. Their victory, 
though grand, was not complete. The Remnants, 
though bloodied, still venerate their spited master 
with offerings of secrets and unwilling 
souls to gain 
his favor. 
‘The Whispered One is a god of hidden things, and 
the occult remnants of his followers prey upon those 
who harbor dark secrets, stoking their fears and 
driving them into his skeletal embrace. He also is a 
patron of undeath, and upon those who lavish him 
with their worship, he bestows the keys to creating 
ever-greater monstrosities. 
Depiction. The Whispered One is a picture of 
sepulchral self-mutilation. Those faithful who saw 
him at Thar Amphala describe him as an unnaturally 
tall, gaunt humanoid with necrotic skin stretched 
taut over 
bones, wrapped in robes of shadow, and 
adorned with jeweled talismans. 
Divine Domains. Many of the Whispered One's 
cleries are granted powers of Arcana, Death, or 
Knowledge. 
Enemies. The Whispered One now despises all 
the gods who stood in his way by anointing members 
of Vox Machina as their champions, The Dawnfa- 
ther, the Everlight, the Knowing Mentor, and the 
Matron of Ravens all contributed to his 
defeat, and 
his Remnants are hell-bent on subverting their mor- 
tal followings, He also harbors resentment for the 
SYMBOL OF THE 
U HISPERED QNE 
Moonweaver, who benevolently blesses the keepers 
of benign secrets, robbing him of followers. 
COMMANDMENTS OF THE WHISPERED ONE 
Learn all you can, and keep hidden that which 
you know. Reveal what pieces you must, but never 
the whole. 
Express and cultivate the evil within yourself, and 
in doing so, recognize it in others to exploit them 
for your own benefit. 
Seed the ruin of all who worship other deities, 
until only those who kneel before the Whispered 
One remain. 
THE CLOAKED SERPENT 
A wanderer in the shadows and the creator of snakes 
and serpentkin, the Cloaked Serpent is the evil god 
of poisons, assassins, and darkness. The ancient 
serpentkin worship him over all other deities, 
dragging screaming offerings to their temples in his 
honor. Most of the Cloaked Serpent's worshipers 
were annihilated during the Calamity, and those that 
weren't are either suspended in self-induced stasis or 
hunted for sport by the servants of the Spider Queen 
and the Crawling King. But perhaps the Cloaked 
Serpent is merely biding his time, waiting for the 
proper moment to unleash his hidden armies upon 
the world once more. 
In Tal'Dorei, most of the Cloaked Serpent's ser- 
pentkin followers live in arcane suspension 
on the mysterious Visa Isle (see page 145). 
Depiction. Many forgotten temples were once built 
to worship the Cloaked Serpent, 
and his image was 
embedded within much of their architecture. He pos- 
sesses a humanoid body with six arms and a fanged, 
serpentine head adorned with a threatening hood. 
Strands of thick, dark hair sprout from his scaled 
body, obscuring his form in layers of swirling shadow. 
Divine Domains. Many of the Cloaked Serpent's 
clerics are granted powers of Nature or Trickery. 
Enemies. The Cloaked Serpent loathes the 
Lawbearer and the Wildmother, for he despises life, 
order, and love above all things. His surviving wor- 
shipers relish in using poison and fire to consume 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 40 ---
nature and undermine civilization, hoping to infuri- 
ate both goddesses and cast Exandria into chaos. 
COMMANDMENTS OF THE CLOAKED SERPENT 
+ Keep your acts obfuscated and secret. The night is 
your greatest ally. 
+ Strike quickly and without reason. Blind the target 
with their own confusion. 
+ Kill slowly. Agonizingly. Or worse, make 
them enjoy it. 
BETRAYER CURSES 
The malign powers of some Betrayer Gods linger in 
Exandria, both as myth and reality. 
CURSE OF STRIFE 
The insidious voice of the Strife Emperor, both dam- 
nable and damning, invades the minds of countless 
people across Tal'Dorei who have been afflicted by 
the Curse of Strife. 
The curse is especially prevalent 
in Rifenmist, where the Strife Emperor's faithful 
clerics bestow it upon their soldiery, transforming 
them into perfect weapons of war. The curse acts 
in unpredictable ways, turning some into chaotic 
berserkers, others into obedient legionnaires, and 
into selfish, isolationist thieves. Cultists of 
Emperor also use their power to covertly 
spread the curse throughout hospitable and kind 
communities across Exandria, aiming to destroy 
them from within and make them more susceptible 
to conquest. 
Origin of Strife. Such transformations are 
the result of the Strife Emperor's torment, which 
whispers constantly in the victims’ minds. The free 
goblinkin of TalDorei regard those who spread the 
curse with special contempt—and those who suffer 
from it with immense pity. 
For centuries, 
small-minded people in Tal'Dorei 
have feared goblins because they are the children of 
the Strife Emperor. But while the first goblins, hob- 
goblins, and bugbears were created in the Calamity 
as soldiers for this fell god, the curse does not linger 
in their blood—it spreads via those who pledge their 
souls to the Strife Emperor. Clerics of the Strife 
Emperor can use the bestow curse spell to inflict the 
Curse of Strife. 
Curing the Curse. Creatures who experience 
kindness or suffer near-death experiences can have 
epiphanies that allow their true self 
to tear through 
the bloody shroud of the Strife Emperor's lies. A 
curse-afilicted creature who spends one week being 
treated with love and compassion instead of hatred 
and fear can make a DC 20 Wisdom saving throw, 
breaking the curse on a success. The remove curse 
spell also immediately 
ends the curse—and many 
reformed clerics of the Strife Emperor have united 
CHAPTER 
2: ALLEGIANCES OF TAL’DOREL 
with clerics of other faiths to loosen the bloody god’s 
grip on their families. 
CURSE OF RUIN 
Countless legends invoke hgar'Gruum, the Curse of 
Ruin. Great orc warriors have been laid low when 
bloodlust overtook their reason. Mighty mages 
driven by a foolhardy ambition forsook caution and 
delved furiously into knowledge no mortal eyes 
should behold. The Curse of Ruin is said to be the 
birthright of all orcs—a deadly taint carried in the 
blood of the Ruiner that forged their people during 
the Calamity. 
Truth of Ruin. The truth is that the Curse of 
Ruin is a myth. The blood of the Ruiner granted ores 
physical strength and superhuman endurance, but it 
imparted none of the Betrayer God's evil. The power 
of the myth, however, is more ruinous than any magic. 
Consequences of the Myth. Countless super- 
stitious folk across Exandria—including many ores 
themselves—believe in the Curse of Ruin. This 
belief doesn't make the curse any more real. The 
myth’s existence is a convenient way for any one ore 
to ignore the real consequences of their 
mistakes, 
or of any act of thoughtless harm—the curse takes 
the blame. Even worse is when 
this 
“bi 
leveled at wise, even-tempered ores who have done 
nothing wrong, and their frustrated reactions are 
then taken as proof of the curse’s existence. 
LESSER IDOLS 
Though the gods still make their wills known upon 
the world by granting power to mortal clerics and by 
delivering edicts through their celestial or fiendish 
servitors, the Divine Gate inhibits them from exercis- 
ing their full powers over the fate of Exandria. The 
same is not true for the lesser idols, beings of demi- 
godly power that have, in the absence of true gods, 
used their splendid and profane forms to amass their 
own cult followings. 
Dozens of these powers are worshiped in relative 
secret across Exandria, Some are supernatural 
beings like archfey or archfiends that have taken up 
near-permanent residence on the Material Plane. 
Others are unknown fragments of the power 
of 
primordial Creation, given form. Most are mortal 
champions that have gained near-divine power 
through magic, the blessings of the gods, or through 
mythic effort and training. In all of these cases, the 
worship of mortals elevates these beings to some- 
thing greater than they were before, imbuing them 
with fragments of divine power— and allowing them 
to grant scraps of that power back to the mortals in 
whom they take an interest.

--- PAGE 41 ---
Lesser IDOLS 
Deity 
Alignment 
Province 
Azgrah 
Lawful neutral 
Undying 
Galdric 
Lawfulgood 
Celestial, Undying 
Graz'tchar 
Chaotic evil_—_Fiend, Hexblade 
Khedive Xundi Chaotic neutral Genie 
Lost Beacon 
Neutral 
Celestial 
The Observer Neutral good 
The Sightless 
The Traveler 
Archfey, Celestial 
Great Old One 
Chaotic neutral Archtey 
Chaotic evil 
Vesh 
Neutralevil 
_Archfey, Undying 
AZGRAH, LORD OF THE 
DEEP DWELLING 
The underground citadel of Emberhold, along with 
the subterranean territories surrounding it, pays 
fealty to the Crawling King as master of the under- 
ground. However, for all but the King’s most faithful, 
the homage they pay to him is a distant second to 
their veneration of Azgrah, Lord of the Deep Dwell- 
ing. This mighty champion is a duergar warrior who 
completed six heroic labors in his prime, all of which 
have been frequently enshrined in bardsong, from 
the wooing of Prince Lhebeno to the Conquest of the 
Amber Worm—in 
which he defeated a servant sent 
by the Crawling King to punish the present Queen of 
the Emberhold for her impiety. 
Azgrah has enjoyed an incredibly long life, even 
for a duergar, and now lives 
in isolation in a temple 
deep within the Amber Worms writhing tunnels. He 
is tended to only by his most trusted warlocks, and 
is venerated by all as the Lord of the Deep Dwelling, 
and as the dwarf who will emerge in the Emberhold’s 
hour of greatest need. 
GALDRIC, THE MOONLIT WOLF 
Given purpose and power as the companion to Pur- 
van Suul, champion of the Matron of Ravens during 
the Calamity, the black wolf Galdric was sealed 
within a raven's slumber (see page 197), one of 
several such relics made in the Matron's honor, and 
interred with his master in a tomb under the Mar- 
rowglade Loch in the distant land of Othanzia. 
Over twenty years ago, Vaxil'dan of Vox Machina 
was named champion in Purvan's stead, and Gal- 
dric was released from his slumber and bestowed 
with the charge of guarding the Parchwood sur- 
rounding Whitestone. This large and cunning wolf 
now stalks the woods as the city's silent protector, 
with the people crafting new legends about their 
bestial sentinel. On moonlit nights, some say you can 
see Galdric wander through the Greyfield, headed to 
the Matron of Ravens's shrine for communion. 
OTHER SECLUDED CHAMPIONS 
A handful of other mortals exist in Tal'Dorei who. 
have risen to nearly divine power through destiny 
or sheer will. Much like Azgrah, the vast majority of 
these champions live out their lives in seclusion— 
and perhaps it is their seclusion that grants them 
the ability to lend their powers to others, while 
they await the day that their full strength is at last 
needed to defend their people. 
All have their own stories, but no matter their 
tales, whether they are honored or despised by 
their kinsfolk, they are all mythic iconoclasts. Other 
secluded champions of Tal’Dorei that you may wish 
to develop into idols of your own include: 
+ Flavia, Queen of Unending Storms (cloud giant) 
+ Suthine, Eternal Princess of Vulkanon (fire giant) 
+ Valdemar, Draugr-Jarl of Farborg (frost giant) 
+ Ghaladron, Traitor to the Iron Crown (hobgoblin) 
+ Tevrosk, Whose Axe Was Wreathed in 
Flowers (orc) 
+ The First Favored Champion (stone giant) 
+ Typhoe, the Dreaming Shark (storm giant) 
TOI II III 
DID 
GRAZ’TCHAR, THE DECADENT END 
Centuries 
ago, Zan Tal’Dorei defeated King Trist 
Drassig in the Battle of Umbra Hills. Drassig died 
wielding a blade called Graz'tchar, gifted to him 
bya cunning demon among the ranks of the fiends 
granted to him by the Strife Emperor. Zan let Dras- 
sig’s blade lie where it fell, along with his body. 
‘This blade contains a sliver of the ego of the 
Demon Prince of Indulgence, and enacts his anar- 
chic, hedonistic will upon the world. From up to one 
thousand miles away from its resting place in the 
Umbra Hills, the voice of Graz'tchar can be heard 
faintly in the minds of those it reaches out to—and, 
‘so itis said, only one who has heard the voice of the 
blade can find it amidst the blackened crags of that 
accursed battlefield. 
‘The Decadent End is willing to grant power to 
those who accept it, even from afar. It prefers to 
test those who hear its call before leading them to 
find it. When the time comes that someone does 
wield Graz'tchar once more, its game statistics are 
on page 195. 
KHEDIVE XUNDI, LORD OF SILVER SILT 
Only about a year ago, a genie of elemental water 
was freed from captivity beneath Nicodranas- 
in Wildemount, on the other side of the Lucidi 
Ocean, This marid, named Kedive Xundi, has now 
returned to his Palace of Silver Silt on the Elemental 
Plane of Water, and is happy to remain there—but he 
is itching for payback. 
But that’s a continent away, and Xundi has time for 
both payback and entertainment. While he manipu- 
lates mortals on Wildemount’s Menagerie Coast, he 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 42 ---
also has deposited a beautiful clay amphora in the 
indeed, all of Gwessar—had ever seen. In its peace 
port city of Stilben. Through this item, he 
s 
passersby, occasionally enticing foolish mortals to 
pick it up and give it a rub. From there, Xundi offers 
them power, with no strings attached—save for a 
request for them to go on the most thrilling adven- 
tures a little mortal can. And maybe, if they survive 
long enough and become powerful enough, the marid 
will invite that mortal and their friends to his Palace of 
Silver Silt for a grand banquet, all the pleasures they 
can imagine, and then a request for them to engage 
in the most thrilling adventure he can think of—and 
Xundi has had the length of a most interminable 
imprisonment to think of incredible adventures. 
THE LOST BEACON OF 
UNKNOWN LIGHT 
Ina time before time, when Exandria was naught but 
darkness in the chaos before even the Founding, a 
luminous being called the Luxon sought answers about 
their existence. They lit the first fires 
within Exandria 
with their unquenchable light, and then began to wait. 
Gods came. They created beings that spread across the 
planet. Those creatures died and procreated and died 
in an endless cycle, of 
which the Luxon grew curious. 
Surely, by watching these shortlived beings, they could 
learn the answers they sought. 
So the Luxon divided their own light into beacons, 
dodecahedral crystals of eternal radiance. They cast 
them across the world and fell 
into a deep slumber, 
during which they hoped people would find the bea- 
cons and bond to them, allowing the mortals’ souls 
to be reborn again and again 
so they could learn 
everything there is to learn about existence. 
Many such beacons have been found across the 
world, mostly by a people who have learned the ways 
of the Luxon in a far-off land. However, many of the 
beacons remain unaccounted for. One such beacon 
was unearthed about ten years ago by Tal'Dorei 
ice in the Cliffkeep Mountains, far from any 
tion. The people of this settlement, Reaching 
Bluff. callit the Beacon of Unknown Light, and treat 
it as a mystical oracle that will guide their young 
‘settlement to prosperity. 
Despite the settlers’ best efforts, word of their dis- 
covery has escaped Reaching Bluff. As adventurers 
and treasure-seekers begin to trickle in, the settlers 
protect their newfound oracle with cultish devo- 
tion—despite 
the fact that it has never once spoken to 
them, as they have beseeched it to countless times. 
THE OBSERVER 
Amidst the Age of Arcanum, the people of the great 
Tetrarchy of Qoniira were visited by a being of 
sheltering power and comforting light. The people of 
Qoniira were on the path to creating the most pros- 
lization that the Rifenmist Jungle—and 
CHAPTER 
2: ALLEGIANCES OF TAL’DOREI 
and 
magical 
might, it 
even the grasp of the 
nearby elven domain of Syngorn. Magic, entirely sep- 
arate from the arcane rituals practiced by arcanists 
of the era, fueled their city’s rise to splendor, and the 
being that came to them looked on in fascination. 
It appeared before them in a form that at once 
seemed familiar and majestic. It had a body like one 
of the catfolk—a wiry humanoid frame with a feline 
face, covered in tawny fur and possessed of a tail and 
limbs that ended in large paws. Beyond this familiar 
appearance, four broad, avian wings burst from 
this ten-foot-tall avatar's back. It was surrounded 
by a golden light that seemed not to illuminate and 
saturate the world around 
it, but make it dimmer, 
ashy, and washed-out. Yet in this pallid light came a 
sharpness of perception, as ifit were more real than 
the material world around it. The being appeared in 
the center of the Qoniira civilization, at the heart of 
the city of Niirdal-Poc, and it spoke a single phrase: 
“Lam the Observer, and I give unto you the Gift.” 
Then, it vanished from sight. 
All at once, the gray-gold light of the Observer 
surged throughout Qoniira. Though the citizens 
n't notice a difference at first, as time went by, 
many people began to manifest new forms of mag 
This magic was not the controlled, scientific power 
of far-off arcanists in their flying cities, but chaotic, 
unpredictable, 
and 
miraculous. 
The once-sprawling civilization of Qoniira has 
shrunk over the centuries, but its people still draw 
upon the miracles of the Gift, and they are still 
watched from afar by the unseen Observer. This 
entity does not reign like a god, but watches impas- 
sively those whom it gave its unpredictable Gift. As 
those born in Niirdal-Poc under the auspices of the 
Observer travel north 
into the Republic of Tal'Dorei, 
or south into the oppressive realm of the Iron Author- 
ity, the gaze of the Observer is moved even farther 
afield—adding ever more variables to its mysterious 
experiment. 
THE SIGHTLESS 
In the Age of Arcanum, an archmage named Clem- 
ain Astural was the first to make contact with an 
otherworldly power of the Realms Beyond that called 
itself the Sightless. His legendary writings, the well- 
guarded Astural Scrolls (See page 112), say that the 
entity's words of greeting to him were: 
“Lam the Sightless. Will you not lend me your eyes?” 
The Astural Scrolls are vague about the powers of 
the Sightless—also sometimes called the Sightless 
One, the Borrower of Byes, and the Lurker Behind 
One Thousand Eyes—but they are specific about 
several things. First, Astural willingly relinquished his 
own sight to the Sightless in exchange for his patron's 
magical powers. He gained all the power he ever 
Al

--- PAGE 43 ---
wanted, but Exandria was as alien to the Sightless 
as the Sightless was to Exandria. Forced to rely 
upon this entity’s horrific interpretations of the world 
around it, Astural quickly lost his grip on reality. 
In time, Astural’s unchecked devastation was 
stopped by great heroes of the time, and his scrolls 
were confiscated. They exist in the Westhall Acad- 
emy in Westruun (see page 91), and the second 
scroll, though secured in a deep vault, still holds 
the secrets of the ritual Astural used to contact the 
Sightless all those years ago. 
THE TRAVELER 
Over the past few years, rumors of a green-cloaked 
deity with a wiry frame and fiery red hair have 
spread across Tal’ Dorei and the neighboring con 
nent of Wildemount. This fey trickster, though not 
a god, has certainly enjoyed pretending to be one to. 
spread mirthful chaos across the world, 
Hundreds of isolated individuals across Tal'Dorei 
have heard the voice 
of the Traveler—or they've at 
least experienced one of his wily pranks. Within the 
past year, a convention of the Traveler's devotees 
congregated on the tiny island of Rumblecusp in the 
Lucidian Ocean to exult his name and deeds. 
And then, suddenly, he vanished. The tales of a 
trickster deity that washed across Tal'Dorei trickled 
to a halt, and a few of 
his once-devoted worshipers 
hung up their cloaks in disappointment. Something 
happened on Rumblecusp that shook the faith 
of dozens of Traveler-worshipers. Some did not 
return at all. 
But amazingly, even though the divine narrative 
of the Traveler has been abandoned by all, the 
Traveler's devoted have only grown in number and 
gleeful impishness. The current story is remarkably 
close to the truth: that the Traveler is 
a mighty lord 
of the fey. This archfey, known as Artagan to a select 
few, despises the relentless pressure of celebrity 
godhood, and just wants to bring joy and freedom 
from responsibility to all. He still has plenty to learn 
about mortals, and about when a bit of good, harm- 
less fun becomes not-so-harmless after all. 
VESH, THE BLOODY SIREN 
Blood and pleasure follow in the wake of the siren 
Vesh. Long has she stalked the shadows of far-off 
Issylra, amassing secretive orgies of people of all 
genders and ancestries. These grand events have 
amembership that numbers in the hundreds, all of 
whom are bound to utmost secrecy, and are thrown 
in obscure retreats that are hidden in cities and 
towns across the continent. Little do the foolish 
pleasure-seekers in attendance know that the siren's 
great fetes of debauchery can end with only two left 
alive: Vesh and her new mate, who will go on to form 
a mystical blood-bond. 
“Beware the Bloody Siren,” sob those few who 
have escaped her orgy of blood, but their warnings 
have only fueled her legend. In Tal’Dorei, where 
Vesh’s presence is known only as a legend of 
a for- 
eign land, her name is most often invoked by youths 
who want to impress their peers. 
But who can say what would happen if an attrac- 
tive and foolish mortal called too fervently or too 
frequently to the Bloody Siren? Perhaps she would 
appear, baring her subtly radiant gray skin, stroking 
her flowing violet hair, and gazing invitingly at the 
fool with her blank white eyes. 
FACTIONS AND SOCIETIES 
While the dominant cultures of the continent have 
molded structure and law from the rough clay left 
beyond the Divergence, these very cultures are 
comprised of 
a number of smaller factions that 
together create the whole. Whether they be a union 
of opportunists, ever-vigilant to reap the benefits of 
an exploitable populace, or bands of like-minded pol- 
iticians, striving to maintain control in a land beset 
by chaos and danger, each faction seeks to drive 
and manipulate the social and political direction 
of Tal’Dorei. The alliances and tensions that can 
arise between the following societies can guide your 
adventurers’ destiny across the spectrum of heroism 
and villainy. 
TAL’ DOREI COUNCIL 
When the new reign of TalDorei was established 
three centuries ago, Zan Tal'Dorei deposed a brutal 
tyrant. Though she was beloved by the people, she 
did not wish to be given unchecked or uncounseled 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 44 ---
rule over the realm. Nevertheless, her inner circle 
obeyed the will of the people and crowned her 
Sovereign of Tal’Dorei. She took to her new role 
well and swiftly expanded her council by appointing 
some of her trusted allies—and even some dissenting 
voices—to form an assembly of scholars, generals, 
and philosophers to govern at her side. This Council 
of Tal’Dorei worked alongside their sovereign to 
rebuild the realm following the end of Drassig’s line, 
and were instrumental in the following prosperity of 
the nascent Tal Dorei Empire. 
‘Twenty-six years ago, Sovereign Uriel Tal’Dorei 
I, the latest and last of the Tal'Dorei line, publicly 
ended the monarchy and passed power over to the 
council, formally divesting 
his line of power. Tragi- 
cally, this ceremony was interrupted by the arrival of 
the four ancient dragons known as the Chroma Con- 
clave. The dragons destroyed the city of Emon, and 
the man who had until moments ago been sovereign 
was one of the first casualties. Uriel Tal'Dorei is sur- 
vived by his wife Salda, and three children—Odessa, 
Iliya, and Gren—who have used their family's still 
considerable wealth and power to become well- 
known public figures in Emon. Odessa herself won a 
seat on the council in a landslide victory. 
In the generation since the fall of Emon, the 
council has risen to the challenge of rebuilding and 
governing their new republic. This state’s power is 
highly decentralized; each individual city-state in 
Tal'Dorei largely acts according to its own interests, 
with the council in place to ensure that pursuing 
those interests benefits the common good. Some 
critics of the republic say that the Tal'Dorei Council 
is little more than a glorified city council for Emon, 
though it is just as often praised for governing 
lightly 
as a rule, and for using the spy network helmed by 
the council's Master of Law to root out corruption 
as needed. 
In addition to the historical Six Masters whose 
positions have existed on the Tal'Dorei Council 
since Zan's time, a variable number 
of delegates 
also cast votes in matters of state. Each settlement 
in Tal'Dorei whose population numbers at least five 
thousand is offered the option to elect delegates to 
the council if they wish to engage in national politics. 
‘The settlement is permitted one delegate per five 
thousand people, and the means of their election is 
left to the settlement's local government. Addition- 
ally, any settlement with a population of over twenty 
thousand can appoint an ambassador to Emon; these 
ambassadors also sit on the council and have voting 
SALE 
CHAPTER 2: ALLEGIANCES 
OF TAL’DOREI

--- PAGE 45 ---
44 
power. Once in Emon, each township's delegation 
is expected to negotiate with one another and find 
agreement. If an accord can’t be reached, they must 
go through the slow process of drafting proposals to 
be voted on by seated members of the council. 
Though Kraghammer and Syngorn remain sover- 
eign city-states, the invasion of the Chroma Conclave 
convinced lawmakers that even tighter alliances 
between the peoples of Tal'Dorei were necessary. 
‘One ambassador 
each from both Kraghammer and 
‘Syngorn now also holds a seat with voting power on 
the council, Each city-state has likewise sent a dele- 
gation to Emon to vouch for their interests. 
GOALS 
Following 
Zan Tal'Dorei’s coronation, the Tal'Dorei 
(ed to aid and inform the sovereign on 
how best to execute their duties. The council has 
evolved to manage the affairs of the city of Emon and 
provide a private forum for delegates from across the 
land to shape the future of Tal'Dorei. The council is 
made up of six masters, whose roles have existed 
since the time of Zan Tal’Dorei, and a variable num- 
ber of ambassadors from all city-states across the 
continent who wish to participate in the coalition of 
power that is the Republic of Tal’Dorei. 
The Six Masters are elected by a popular vote 
ofall city-states who have sent an ambassador to 
the council. These masters are each beholden to a 
domain of responsibility, and they either inherit the 
existing infrastructure of civil servants, or restruc- 
ture with the approval of the rest of the council. The 
domains are divided as such: Development, Arcana, 
Law, Commerce, Information, and Defense. Addition- 
ally, the first business of the council upon delivering 
ving 
a declaration of waris to elect a Seventh 
HERALDRY OF THETALDORE! COUNCIL 
Master: the Master of War, who is appointed to the 
council by a vote of all sitting masters, ambassadors, 
and delegates. The council members are responsible 
for these domains throughout the city of Emon and 
work closely with community 
leaders in other cities 
to maintain order. 
The Master of Development works with the 
masonry and carpentry guilds to oversee all 
major infrastructure projects within Emon, as 
well as allocating resources to projects needed in 
settlements that have a delegation in the council. 
In the past two decades, the current Master 
of 
Development has added an unprecedented eight 
Lieutenant Masters of Development to his staff to 
serve the reconstruction needs of each city in the 
republic. 
‘The Master of Arcana keeps vigil over the lawful 
use of magics within Tal'Dorei, informs the 
council on matters beyond the mundane, and 
occasionally works with the Alabaster Lyceum's 
Headmaster. This councilmemberis currently 
embroiled in debates over the danger that the 
League of Miracles poses to organizations like the 
Arcana Pansophical. 
The Master of Law enforces all of Tal'Dorei 
written laws from within the Watchful Hall, and 
serves as high judge on legal matters that affect 
the fate of the entire republic. All lesser courts 
answer to their authority. 
The Master of Commerce works with all major mer- 
chant guilds and trading networks within Emon 
and beyond. They are to maintain healthy trade at 
home and abroad, especially between squab- 
bling delegates, and establish the government's 
annual budget. 
‘The Master of Information manages foreign diplo- 
macy, and also serves as the head of a network 
of spies that, these days, is supplemented by the 
skilled eyes of the Clasp. Their work as spymaster 
and chief diplomat seeks to root out threats to the 
republic from within and without. 
The Master of Defense is head of the Emon Guard, 
High Commander of Fort Daxio, and manages 
the allocation of federal resources to city guard 
groups throughout Tal’Dorei. They work closely 
with the Master of Law to mobilize armed troops 
throughout the country if supernatural or nonmi 
tary threats arise during peacetime. 
‘The Master of War is a temporary position only 
instated during times of open or impending war- 
fare. As TalDorei has only a smalll standing army, 
this newly appointed master then assembles a mil- 
ry from city 
guards and town militias across the 
nation, mobilizing the elite warriors of Fort Daxio 
as needed. When peace is declared, the position 
dissolved until itis 
called for again. 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 46 ---
RELATIONSHIPS 
The council maintains free travel, free trade, and free 
communication between its constituent settlements, 
and between the republic and its allies—both on 
Tal'Dorei and abroad. The incursion of the Chroma 
Conclave has united the oftfeuding city-states of 
‘Syngorn and Kraghammer like never before, and all 
of Tal'Dorei now enjoys free trade and open borders 
between even its most remote enclaves. Thanks to 
the actions of Vox Machina, the previously solitary 
city-state of Whitestone has joined the republic, to 
the benefit of both. 
The Clasp was once considered a serious threat 
to the councit’s rule, but times have changed. These 
days, Clasp Spirelings in Emon frequently make 
public appearances before the council on behalf 
of 
their own organization and their often unscrupu- 
lous business partners. This is to say nothing of the 
Clasp’s deep involvement in the Master of Informa- 
tion's spy ri 
‘The Tal'Dorei Council has comfortable trade 
and diplomatic agreements between the realm of 
Othanzia in Issylra and the loosely federated cities 
of the Clovis Concord in Wildemount. The recent 
conclusion of a bloody war between the Dwendalian 
Empire and the Kryn Dynasty 
in Wildemount has 
given the Tal'Dorei Council cause to send ambassa- 
dors to both nations to establish embassies, in hopes 
of creating 
an 
historic arrangement with all of the 
sovereign nations of that oft-maligned continent. On 
the continent of Marquet to the southwest, the great 
ARCANIST 
ALLURA \|YSOREN 
CHAPTER 
2: ALLEGIANCES OF TAL’DOREI 
city of Ank'Harel has been friendly and open when 
it comes to trade and commerce, but has shown no 
interest in any political relationships beyond that. 
FIGURES OF INTEREST 
‘These figures are major members of the Tal’Dorei 
Council 
that you can use as NPCs in your game. You 
should also take inspiration from these figures to 
make up new NPCs for your own campaign. 
GUARDIAN TOFOR BROTORAS 
Dragonblood Master of Defense 
Stern, honorable, and quick to anger, Tofor is proud 
to serve on the council. After losing many friends 
(and one of her own arms) in the struggles aga 
the Chroma Conclave, she took the vulnerability 
of the city to heart, swearing never to allow such a 
thing to happen again. She is a beloved hero of the 
war against the Chroma Conclave and has served on 
the council since before the death of the Last Sover- 
eign. Most folk in Emon suspect she'll win reelection 
until the day she dies. 
‘SEEKER ODESSA TAL'DOREI 
Human Master of Information 
When the eldest daughter of the Last Sovereign 
campaigned for the Master of Information’s seat, its 
current holder was Seeker Assum Emring, a loyal 
servant of her father's. He bowed out of the race, and. 
his blithe quote made headlines in Emon: “I taught 
her everything she knows.” She won in a landslide, 
Odessa wields the dual blades of Assum’s spy net- 
work and the mercenary agents of the Clasp with 
practiced finesse. Nevertheless, her name and the 
legacy of her father's martyrdom weigh heavily upon 
her. As Seeker, Odessa is calm, methodical, and 
laconic, but she carries a dignified sorrow. 
ARCANIST ALLURA VYSOREN 
Human Master of Arcana 
Allura Vysoren has held the position of Master of 
Arcana since before the Chroma Conclave's attack, 
and is held in the esteem of Tal'Dorei's people— 
‘mages and common folk alike. As a member of the 
Arcana Pansophical, she is also increasingly worried 
's politicians fall 
in 
debt to the League of Miracles. After decades of 
investigating supernatural abnormalities herself, 
age has finally forced her to limit her adventuresome 
excursions. She now is one of the council's foremost 
employers of adventurers. 
ARBITER BROM GOLDHAND 
Human Master of Law 
Asstone-faced, gray-haired, flame-scarred cleric of the 
Knowing Mentor, Brom is as mysterious as he is pro- 
ficient with law. One thing is clear: he is dedicated to

--- PAGE 47 ---
46 
keeping the realm just and orderly, and there are few 
who would dare challenge his judgement. 
HEARTHMAKER EDELBERN CLEAREYES 
Goliath Master of Development 
Asa goliath of the Rivermaw nomads, no one 
expected Edelbern to have an interest in civic archi- 
tecture. Yet, after growing up in Westruun while 
was occupied by the Herd of Storms some twenty 
‘years ago, he found that he preferred the beauty of 
Stone towers to towering pines. He also possessed 
a remarkable gift of mathematical acuity, and used 
his skills to set Westruun—and eventually all of 
Tal’Dorei—on the path of reconstruction. Edelbern is 
also idealistic to a fault, and has, in his dedication to 
restoration, been manipulated into handing numer- 
ous lucrative contracts to the League of Miracles, 
allowing them to amass greater and greater power. 
COINMISTRESS VEX’AHLIA DE ROLO 
Half-elf Master of Commerce 
Asa member of Vox Machina and hero of the realm, 
Vex’ahlia could help Tal'Dorei in any number of 
ways. She already held a ceremonial title in Whites- 
tone as Grand Mistress of the Grey Hunt. Yet when 
she and her husband pushed for Whitestone to be 
formally recognized as a constituent city of the 
Republic of Tal’Dorei, all who knew her name (and 
her legendary financial savvy) clamored for her to be 
elected to the council as Coinmistress. She took to 
the duty with aplomb, and fights hard to ensure that 
Emon never gets the bad end of 
a deal when gold 
is involved. 
AMBASSADOR SYLDOR VESSAR 
Elfambassador from Syngorn 
Vex’ahlia’s elven father has served as his city’s 
ambassador to Emon for well over a century, and 
requested to be appointed a seated ambassador as 
soon as the office was created. Though he 
is other- 
wise a staunch traditionalist, Syldor was inspired 
by his brave children to move past his old racial 
prejudices and drive his homeland to be less bigoted 
and xenophobic—learning from his own mistakes as 
a father to two half-elven children. His relationship 
with his elder daughter is still strained, and it isa 
newsworthy occasion when they vote in accord. 
AMBASSADOR DEIRDRIK GREYSPINE 
Dwarfambassador from Kraghammer 
The youngest son of the ruling House Greyspine 
of Kraghammer, Deirdrik has little hope of being 
elected Ironkeeper. Instead, this ambitious young 
dwarf—a scant seventy years old—left his home to 
win political renown in the national arena. He is a 
romantic idealist at heart and always votes for bold 
new policies, but doesn’t always think through the 
consequences of his actions. 
AMBASSADOR KEYLETH OF THE ASHARI 
Hal-elf ambassador from Zephrah 
A legendary archdruid and member of Vox Machina, 
Keyleth is both leader of the Air Ashari and ambas- 
sador 
for all Tal’ Dorei’s Ashari peoples. She despises 
politics, and is focused entirely on improving the 
wellbeing of as many people as possible—as well 
as involving the Ashari on the national stage. She 
spends most of her time in Zephrah, with her 
people—including her father, Korrin, and her newly 
returned mother, Vilya—but she can and will arrive 
in Emon at the drop of a hat, if Vex asks it of her. 
DELEGATE KEL'JAIA ULOEH 
Gnome delegate from Syngorn 
Kel'jaia is a confident gnome with incredible strength 
and resilience—both physical and emotional. She 
is thought by all to be the council's first choice for 
Master of War, should the time ever call for it. She 
was born in the Rifenmist Jungle and grew up amidst 
mercenaries who fought against the Iron Author- 
ity. After her commander 
was killed in battle, she 
traveled north to Syngorn to seek aid in her fight. 
She dreams of forging bonds of unity between her 
homeland and Tal’Dorei. 
ARCANA PANSOPHICAL 
All of Tal'Dore’’s greatest mages fought at the Battle 
of the Umbra Hills. They saw the incursion of 
demons and devils firsthand, and were rightly 
terrified that the spawn of the Betrayer Gods could 
ever return to the world. It was clear that the 
Divergence had not wholly prevented supernatural 
evil from infringing upon the world, and that the 
mages of Exandria must prevent future “surprises” 
of this nature. The mistakes of the Age of Arcanum. 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 48 ---
must never be repeated. In light of this, Yurek 
Windkeeper, high enchanter of Syngorn and a 
well-respected arcanist, reached out to the realm’s 
most trusted and capable mages, and together they 
formed a private society called the Arcana 
Pansophical. 
GOALS 
The chief priority of this fellowship of powerful 
arcane specialists is to maintain the Truth of Magic, 
a strict code enacted to never again allow the ram- 
pant misuse of magic seen in the Age of Arcanum. 
General members are referred to as Guides, while 
the higher circle of members who deal in judgment 
and oversight are called Makers. At least one mem- 
ber is established at each place of arcane learning. 
Membership is largely kept secret unless out 
of necessity, though the existence of the order is 
relatively common knowledge. Anyone found to be 
practicing magic is logged and routinely checked up 
on, as misuse of magic is grounds for arrest, judg- 
ment by the Makers, and punishment outside of the 
local law. Even so, the reach and sight of the Arcana 
Pansophical are not without limits, and many dark 
and terrible dealings manage to escape their notice. 
TT 
THE TRUTH OF MAGIC 
The Pansophical’s myriad rules on the use and mis- 
use of magic are innumerable — detailed at length 
in centuries of amendments made to the full text of 
the Truth of Magic. Though the Truth’s bizarre intri- 
cacies are left up to the GM, the Truth’s preamble 
establishes three unbreakable edicts: 
“In the Eternal interest of the Preservation of Har- 
mony within the realm of Exandria, we the Arcana 
Pansophical establish the Truth of Magic, and three 
Edicts from which none shall stray. Those Arcanists 
found in gross violation of the Truth will be pun- 
ished by the full extent of this Order—outside of 
any local faw. 
Though the school of Necromancy shall be 
restricted to none, in the interest of magical study 
and Understanding, the animation of the dead is 
Violation of the Truth. 
The Arcane 
is a tool to be wielded for the good 
of the People. To use its Power in the pursuit 
of 
wanton Destruction or unjust Murder is a Violation 
of the Truth. 
In addition, though the Jurisdiction of the Pan- 
sophical supersedes the power of local laws, a 
mage who wilfully breaks the laws of the land is in 
Violation of the Truth.” 
LARA DAA RII 
ADDR 
CHAPTER 2: ALLEGIANCES OF TAL’DOREL 
RELATIONSHIPS 
The Arcana Pansophical is respected, ifsome- 
what feared, throughout the Republic of Tal'Dorei. 
Syngorn and other elffounded settlements see the 
Pansophical as allies, as the roots of the society 
began within Syngorn itself. The people of Kragham- 
mer are suspicious of the Pansophical's legalistic 
Truth of Magic, and they fear that its members 
hold more loyalty to the Pansophical than to their 
homeland. 
Recently, a group of profit-driven arcanists 
splintered from the Arcana Pansophical to form the 
self-styled League of Miracles. Their involvement in 
the for-profit reconstruction of Tal’Dorei has made 
them popular among mages who see the Pansophi 
cal as a stodgy, elitist institution. The Pansophical, 
however, sees the League of Miracles as a distasteful 
upstart that will soon buckle under its own ambition. 
FIGURES OF INTEREST 
These figures are major members of the Arcana 
Pansophical that you can use as NPCs in your game. 
You should also take inspiration from these figures 
to make up your own NPCs. 
ENCHANTER YUREK WINDKEEPER 
Elf wizard (enchanter) and Maker 
Founder of the Arcana Pansophical, the ancient 
archmage Yurek generally stays within Syngorn, 
acting as the nexus of the order and a consultant to 
the Wardens of Syngorn. 
ALCHEMIST OZ GRUUDE 
Halfling alchemist and Maker 
Gruude is an ornery old halfling who is more 
interested in traveling the world to study plants and 
minerals with latent magical properties than doing 
alchemical lab work. He is rarely seen in the halls of 
the Pansophical. 
SEER GLORIA los 
Human wizard (diviner) and Maker 
Gloria is one of the great diviners of the age, and her 
duties have sent her to Vasselheim, where she acts as 
a foreign outreach for the Pansophical. 
MAGUS SEANOR WILES 
Human wizard (enchanter), Maker, and tutor 
A humble-looking traveler, Wiles delights in finding 
fresh and emerging talent and helping his new stu- 
dents refine their arcane gifts. 
PLANERIDER RYN. 
Tiefling wizard (conjures), Maker, and planar studies 
specialist 
This former pupil of Yurek Windseeker has grown 
into a master of planar travel. She likewise has 
4:

--- PAGE 49 ---
taken an interest in the flow of magic across the 
world by means of ley lines. She's constantly on the 
move, traveling from plane to plane to conduct her 
research. 
TINKERER QUASH DENTDRUGGLE 
Gnome construct specialist and Guide 
Obsessed with the development of autonomous and 
living arcane constructs, Quash is usually holed up 
in his laboratory within Kraghammer. 
ARCANIST ALLURA VYSOREN 
Human wizard (abjurer) and Guide 
Asa member of the Tal’Dorei Council and a retired 
adventurer, Allura has helped maintain the political 
significance of the Arcana Pansophical within Emon. 
Even among her colleagues in the Pansophical, her 
unpretentious strength commands great respect. 
ELEMENTALIST DRAKE THUNDERBRAND 
Dwarf wizard (evoker) and Guide 
Driven to bind the physical elements of the chaotic 
planes to his will, Drake is a prodigy of new incanta- 
tions in the field. He and Allura Vysoren are lifelong 
friends, and together they're renowned for achieving 
the impossible. 
REALMSEER ESKIL RYNDARIEN 
Human archmage and Maker emeritus 
Though he was a Maker for most of his life, Realm- 
seer Ryndarien grew frustrated with the politics and 
tions of the Pansophical, eventually retiring to 
Westruun to pursue his own interests. These days, 
he has found a way to rejuvenate his aged body and 
is now renowned as a handsome and aloof man 
about town—much to the annoyance of all who for- 
merly knew him. 
THE ASHARI 
The Material Plane is surrounded on all sides by 
the churning chaos of the elements. This elemen- 
tal power is invisible to most, but in some places, 
the veil between this world and the Elemental 
Planes grows thin—and sometimes is torn entirely 
asunder. These places where the Elemental Planes 
bleed into the world are called rifts, and they first 
appeared on a long-ago Celestial Solstice when the 
planes aligned. That day, elemental rifts of untold 
proportions burst open across Exandria. Wildfires, 
tsunamis, hurricanes, and earthquakes ravaged 
the lands, and the people of the world struggled to 
‘combat the elemental beings that poured forth from 
the rifts. The tide of rampaging elementals was 
eventually stemmed, but the world was gripped by 
fear—what would happen on the next solstice? 
In the wake of the planar disturbance, a society of 
druids called the Ashari made a covenant to divide 
and form four separate orders to seal and watch over 
the sources of these unleashed energies. Most of 
the lesser rifis that opened in that time have been 
healed, but one rift to each of the four Elemental 
Planes remains in Exandria. The four orders of the 
Ashari settled near these rifts, watching over them 
and soothing them when they grow volatile. Of these 
orders, two are in Tal’'Dorei, where they watch over 
the rift of earth and the rift of air. A dozen gener- 
ations later, the Ashari still hold watch over these 
tumultuous locations. 
ASHARI CULTURE 
‘Though the Ashari began asa single group of 
elementalists, their individual orders have each 
developed their own ways of living over the 
centuries. 
The people of Pyrah value reactivity and coolness 
under pressure, for panic is death during an erup- 
tion. The Ashari of Vesrah have a close relationship 
with the marine life that surrounds their rift, and 
their actions always prioritize the health of Exan- 
dria’s waters. Zephrah’s culture values the freedom 
of the open sky, and balances their sense of duty with 
a free-spirited sense of play. Finally, the society of 
Terrah is rooted in planning 
for the future, and fixing 
what is broken with patience and humility. 
GOALS 
Each Ashari order guards their respective rift 
between one of the elemental planes and Exandria. 
Here, they strive to understand, master, and ulti- 
mately subdue the ever-escaping elemental forces. 
They attempt to bring balance to the surrounding 
lands and heal the rift over time, though recurring 
cosmic events tend to reopen these wounds. 
‘The Ashari of Pyrah oversee the Fire Elemental 
Rift in the valley caldera of the Sunderpeak Mountain 
range in Othanzia, upon the continent of Issyira. The 
Ashari of Vesrah watch over the Water Elemental 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 50 ---
Rift on the Islands of Anamn, within the Oz1 
On the southwest edge of the Cliffkeep Mountains, 
the Ashari of Terrah stand vigilant over the Earth Ele- 
mental Rift, while high atop the windy mountaintops 
of the Summit Peaks, the Ashari of Zephrah keep 
the Air Elemental Rift. The Air Ashari also watch over 
the Frostweald, where a being of elemental ice once 
broke through to cause untold destruction. 
Due to their isolation, the Ashari go to great 
lengths to maintain contact with their kin. Each 
order is led by a single elemental master, a title that 
is passed on by blood or honor for generations. In 
every new generation that comes of age, the young 
leader-to-be must embark upon an Aramente. This 
“noble odyssey” sends them across the world to meet 
with the other Ashari leaders and train until they 
have earned both the respect and an understanding 
of their hosts. 
Upon returning, they ascend to the head of their 
order, while the elder retires. This journey often 
takes years, and should one such Ashari not return 
within a reasonable period of time, a next-of-kin 
or a suitable elemental adept is chosen to take up 
the Aramente. 
RELATIONSHIPS 
The Ashari maintain peaceful, if sometimes strained, 
relationships between the orders, though inner 
conflict occasionally arises within them. Beyond 
this, much of life within the Ashari is hidden from 
outsiders’ prying eyes. In recent years, however, 
Keyleth of the Zephrah has taken steps to unite the 
Ashari with the rest of the people of Tal’Dorei. She 
has gone so far as to become an ambassador for the 
Ashari people on the Tal'Dorei Council. Part of this 
work has been expanding the crisis orbs system, 
which the Ashari used to contact their distant kin in 
times of peril, to connect cities across Tal'Dorei in 
the event of another crisis 
on the level of the Chroma 
Conclave. 
‘The Ashari of Terrah nurture a seed of disre- 
spect and mistrust for Kraghammer, whose miners 
constantly disregard their warnings against reckless 
mining. This arrogance caused countless deaths in 
the most recent eruption of the Terrah Rift—and led 
to the collapse of an entire mountain. 
Each Ashari culture has its own favored deities. 
Many Ashari of Pyrah venerate the Dawnfather, 
for his flames give life to Exandria. Many in Vesrah 
worship the Moonweaver, for her work controls the 
tides. In Zephrah, the faith of the Wildmother is 
predominant, for her freedom is like that of the wind. 
And the people of Terrah hold the All-Hammer in 
great respect for his association with creation and 
the earth. There are many Ashari, as well, who pre- 
fer to revere the elements themselves, forgoing 
the 
worship of gods. 
CHAPTER 2: ALLEGIANCES OF TAL’DOREI 
FIGURES OF INTEREST 
These figures are major members of the Ashari that 
you can use as NPCs in your game. You should also 
take inspiration from these figures to make up new 
NPCs for your own campaign. 
Pa'TIce, HEART OF THE MOUNTAIN 
Human leader of Terrah 
Elderly leader of the Earth Ashari, Pa'tice still 
shows vigor and strength to resist his age, having 
led his people through many very tough challenges. 
His stubbornness is legendary, and it's said even 
death has been forced to wait until Paltice sees it his 
proper time. Many believe that his druidic training 
will keep him alive until he himself chooses to let go 
of this mortal coil. 
KORRIN OF ZEPHRAH 
Halfelf elder of Zephrah 
His wife Vilya was lost while she undertook the 
Aramente, and when the previous Voice of the Tem- 
pest died of illness, Korrin was called upon to act 
as Voice until his daughter Keyleth came of age and 
completed her Aramente. Korrin 
was shocked when, 
Vilya suddenly returned, and now spends his days in 
disbelieving bliss, reunited with his long-lost wife. He 
is gentle with those who show honor, and merciless 
to those who threaten his people. 
Vita, WHO ESCAPED DEATH 
Half-elf elder of Zephrah 
Vilya disappeared on her Aramente nearly thirty 
years ago, and was presumed dead. Her daughter, 
Keyleth, took up her own Aramente ten years after 
Vilya left, and discovered from the Water Ashari of 
Vesrah that Vilya was killed by a kraken, and only 
her leg was able to be recovered. Less than a year 
ago, Vilya suddenly strode out of a tree in Zeph- 
rah, her leg replaced with a druidic prosthetic of 
her own creation, shocking all—though none were 
more overwhelmed with emotion than her daughter 
and husband. Though Vilya never earned the title 
of Voice of the Tempest, she now aids her daughter 
in leading her people without the faintest trace of 
jealousy. 
KEYLETH, VOICE OF THE TEMPEST 
Half-elf leader of Zephrah 
Hero of Tal'Dorei and member of Vox Machina, 
Keyleth completed her Aramente and took leadership. 
among her people following the destruction of the 
Chroma Conclave. She seems to have not aged a 
day since Vox Machina’s victory over the Whispered 
One. Since her beloved’s death, she has kept busy to. 
fill the void in her heart. From expanding the crisis 
orb network across the realm and building beautiful 
windmills in the Summit Peaks with Perey’s aid to 
49

--- PAGE 51 ---
50 
training Air Ashari heroes at home, she has never 
allowed herself 
a free moment. She has rarely left 
Zephrah in the months since her mother’s emo- 
tional return. 
BRAWLER’S LEAGUE 
‘The brutal blood sports of the Brawler’s League 
began, unsurprisingly, during the vicious Drassig 
Dynasty. In that cruel era, many of Emon's affluent 
and indolent social 
elite used their wealth to engage 
in entertainment of 
a more “visceral” variety. The 
kingdom's poor were already fighting each other for 
scraps; why not pay them to literally fight to the death 
for their amusement? 
‘Some strong, charismatic ruffians used this oppor- 
tunity to gain social power for themselves, and chief 
among them was a rough-and-tumble entrepreneur 
from Kraghammer named Bruel Sunderchin. Reach- 
ing out to his network of lowlifes and cutthroats, 
Sunderchin became ringleader of an annual gladia- 
torial tournament that caters expressly to Exandria’s, 
wealthiest elite. 
Those who have become invested members of the 
league's events are anonymously delivered a golden 
coin bearing their symbol in the weeks leading up 
to an event. These coins are required for entry into 
the events, and those who wish to join, whether as a 
patron or participant, require a coin of their own. 
GOALS 
‘The Brawler's League is always in search of hidden 
and well-guarded locations around Tal'Dorei (and 
sometimes other realms) to establish their semi- 
annual event. A combatant or team is required to 
have a known and cleared sponsor or manager to 
enter the event. There are two tiers of bouts; one 
ier has teams of six battling via single elimination 
until a victor is declared. The other features single 
combatants fighting one-on-one, single-elimination, 
until a victor is declared. Killing your opponents isn't 
‘encouraged, but isn't explicitly discouraged, either. 
Bets are placed in person at the event, or remotely 
(via arcane messages and sending stones) from all 
around Exandria, 
CREST 
OF THE 
BRAWLER’S LEAGUE 
RELATIONSHIPS 
‘The Brawler's League is extremely illegal in all 
major cities across Tal'Dorei. Should lawkeepers of 
any nation discover the location of the semiannual 
event, the venue would find itself swiftly strangled by 
the long arm of the law. As such, magical protections 
and sentinels are placed throughout the event to pre- 
vent any unapproved entry, or to 
wipe the memory of 
those that do infiltrate. 
Acommon rumor states that numerous political 
figures who publicly decry the event secretly partake 
in the gambling, and that the location of the event is 
concealed not only by magic, but also impenetrable 
layers of bureaucracy. Kraghammer has hosted the 
event a number 
of times, with most local guards and 
great houses turning 
a blind eye. 
The Brawler’s League frequently hires local 
Clasp agents (or Myriad operatives, in a pinch) to 
spread word of their next event through 
the criminal 
underground. If all goes well, they get hired at the 
event itself 
to provide protection, run interference, 
and make money on the side by providing loans and 
taking bets. 
FIGURES OF INTEREST 
These figures are major members of the Brawler's 
League that you can use as NPCs in your game. You 
should also take inspiration from these figures to 
make up new NPCs for your own campaign. 
OBEN “BROADSTAFF” SUNDERCHIN 
Dwarf organizer and head of Brawler's League 
Descendant of Bruel and inheritor of the league's top 
position, Oben secretly goes by the name Broadstaft 
and doesn't directly appear at events, as he avoids 
public connection with the league. 
KRADIN GRIMTHORNE 
Dwarf fight manager 
A previously disgraced dwarf, exiled from Kragham- 
mer for murder, Grimthorne is the foremost brawler 
talent scout in Tal'Dorei. 
CHAMBER OF WHITESTONE 
Generations ago, a team of intrepid explorers 
and fortune-seekers sailed from Port Damali in 
Wildemount to northeastern Tal’Dorei through the 
Shearing Channel, but wrecked upon the Alabaster 
Sierras’ rocky cliffs. The expedition was led by the 
de Rolo family, and these brave humans led the sur- 
vivors to safety after the wreck. They took refuge in 
valley within the Alabaster Sierras, and there they 
discovered the holy Sun Tree, a radiant tree blessed 
by the Dawnfather. A community 
grew around the 
Sun Tree, and the respected and beloved de Rolos 
were asked by their shipwrecked allies to be the 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 52 ---
leaders of this new settlement. Pressed against 
the chalky cliffs of the Alabaster Sierras, their new 
homeland was dubbed Whitestone. 
The sovereign city-state of Whitestone enjoyed 
peace for many generations, secluded from the rest 
of Tal’Dorei and Wildemount. This serenity was 
destroyed when Lord Sylas and Lady Delilah Bri- 
arwood arrived in Whitestone and murdered most 
of the de Rolo family. Lady Delilah, a necromancer 
of the Whispered One and a disgraced member of 
the Cerberus Assembly in Wildemount, and her 
husband, a power-hungry vampire, transformed the 
quiet city-state into a realm of death. They attempted 
to take control of all of Tal'Dorei by puppeteering the 
Last Sovereign, Uriel Tal'Dorei II, but were thwarted 
by Vox Machina. 
Thirty years after Whitestone’s fall, the Briar- 
woods and their sepulchral master are defeated, and 
Whitestone has returned to the blessed peace of its 
past. Nevertheless, much has changed. The surviving 
de Rolo siblings, Percival and Cassandra, reclaimed 
the city with the aid of Vox Machina. With the tyrants 
dethroned, Percival established a council titled 
the Chamber of Whitestone to rule in his frequent 
absence, and the city now sends a delegation to the 
Tal'Dorei 
Council to help safeguard the republic 
against evil. 
GOALS 
Under the watch of Lady Cassandra de Rolo, the 
chamber handles and surveys all aspects 
of political 
life in Whitestone. Its members are appointed by the 
head of the chamber, who is likely to be a scion of the 
de Rolo family for generations to come. The head can 
also add or remove members from the council. This 
system is new and untested by a ruler less noble than 
Percival or Cassandra, In many ways, this system 
of government is another one of Percy's tinkering 
projects. 
Members of the Chamber are granted d 
areas of responsibility to the realm. 
HERALDRY OF THE CHAMBER OF \HITESTONE 
CHAPTER 2: ALLEGIANCES OF TAL’DOREI 
‘The Guardian of Woven Stone is the title given to 
the central figure on the council, responsible for 
higher civil justice, community unification, and 
oversight of internal government. 
The Steward of Sunblessed Gifts is responsible for 
local farming and goods, overseeing distribution 
between citizens and exportation. 
‘The Curator of Fortune’s Bounty is responsible for 
all major commerce and economic business, both 
locally and with allied and foreign entities. 
‘The Keeper of Divine Virtue is responsible for 
religious organization and spiritual guidance 
regarding multiple faiths within the region, both 
as a religious leader and a protector of practices. 
‘The Commissioner of Wardship is responsible for 
the enforcement of local law, the organization of 
the Paleguard, acting as judge on smaller matters 
of civil justice, and defense of the city during 
times of war. 
The Architect of Enlightened Progress is responsi- 
ble for the construction and infrastructure of the 
city and castle. 
‘The Grand Mistress of the Grey Hunt is respon: 
sible for diplomatic relations and for rooting out 
dangers beyond the city's walls. 
RELATIONSHIPS 
Despite its benefits, Whitestone’s previous solitary 
existence left it without allies in its time of need. The 
Chamber 
of Whitestone has sent a delegation to the 
Tal'Dorei Council for the betterment of both. These 
days, trade caravans are a common sight along the 
Silvercut Roadway, transporting goods from Whites- 
tone to Westruun, Kymal, and ultimately Emon. The 
most expensive goods travel via 
skyships, which land 
at Whitestone’s brand-new skyport. 
FIGURES OF INTEREST 
These figures are major members of the Chamber of 
Whitestone that you can use as NPGs in your game. 
You should also take inspiration from these figures 
to make up new NPCs for your own campaign. 
Lapy CASSANDRA JOHANNA DE ROLO, 
(GUARDIAN OF WOVEN STONE 
Human head of the Chamber of Whitestone 
Cassandra is Percival's younger sister, thought 
dead until he discovered her in the thrall of the 
Briarwoods. She now manages Whitestone’s most 
pressing matters, with daily briefings from other 
members of the chamber, She is beloved throughout 
the city for her resilience and her decisive leadership. 
SRE SORE 
St

--- PAGE 53 ---
LORD PERCIVAL FREDRICKSTEIN VON 
MUSEL KLOSSOWSKI DE ROLO III, 
ARCHITECT OF ENLIGHTENED PROGRESS 
Human member 
of the Chamber of Whitestone 
Percival is Cassandra's older brother, thought dead 
Vox Machina discovered him 
in a prison cell. 
His life was filled with countless joys and regrets. He 
has taken well to retirement from adventuring, and is 
renowned across Tal'Dorei for his creations. 
LADY VEX’AHLIA DE ROLO, BARONESS OF 
THE THIRD HOUSE OF WHITESTONE AND 
GRAND MISTRESS OF THE GREY HUNT 
Half-Elf Member of the Chamber of Whitestone 
Vex’ahlia is the Grand Mistress of the Grey Hunt, a 
title she has held since before she married Percival. 
Over the past twenty-four years, she has become a 
talented and respected leader of the Grey Hunters. 
And though the hunters use guns inspired by her 
husband’s own designs, she still prefers to wield her 
trusty bow. 
GROG STRONGJAW, GRAND POOBAH DE 
DOINK, IN CHARGE OF ALL THIS-AND-THAT 
Goliath friend 
The noble, if simple, warrior of Vox Machina, no one 
really knows if Grog’s title is a real title at all, or if 
Percy was just joking when he gave it to him. Grog 
likes it, and that's good enough for most people. 
CLARET ORDERS 
Hundreds of years ago, a fell power exerted its 
dark will over Wildemount, corrupting its outlying 
townships and spreading chaos among its people. 
Undeath washed over gravesites like a plague, 
shadowed beasts stalked the midnight woods, and 
the influence of fiends befouled even Wildemount’s 
purest souls. 
In the eleventh hour, a priest of the Matron of 
Ravens named Trence Orman prayed for a way to 
protect his flock. The Matron’s inspiration came i 
the form of long-hidden knowledge: the secrets to 
blood magic. Taking his gifts, Trence trained his 
most trusted warriors in these techniques, giving a 
portion of their humanity in exchange for the power 
to defend their people. This marked the origin of 
the Claret Orders, and the first Blood Clerics, Blood 
Mages, and Blood Hunters. 
The Claret Orders work in relative secrecy, as the 
nature of their abilities is largely misunderstood, 
which often leads to persecution. Their numbers 
are small, as the price is great and the Orders only 
accept those who are strong of heart and have little 
to lose. Small sects of the Orders have begun work 
far enough West to wander the lands of Tal'Dorei 
in recent years, keeping out of the public eye and 
remaining vigilant to the signs of familiar darkness 
As blood flows through and invigorates the body, 
$0 faith flows through and invigorates the soul. 
Ever remember this: your blood and your faith are, 
one and the same. Spill not your blood nor that of 
another heedlessly, but do not hesitate to spill either 
when the causts just. 
—FROM THE CRIMSON CANON, © 
A HOLY TEX OF THE 
CLARET ORDERS, 
Despite the Claret Orders’ best attempts at 
secrecy, the esoteric 
art of blood magic has escaped 
their clutches. Though rare, rogue blood mages and 
blood hunters have spread across both Wildemount 
and Tal'Dorei, unbound by the tenets and strictures 
of the Claret Orders. 
GOALS 
The Creed of the Claret Orders asks that its follow- 
ers commit their lives to the hunt of entities 
and 
creatures that threaten the sanctity of life and joy. 
While the sacrifice is great, the reward is the contin- 
ued existence of purity and good in the world. The 
Orders strive to protect those who cannot protect 
themselves from the shadows, taking no credit for 
their services beyond the means to live and travel. 
Some have strayed, focusing on building a fortune 
for themselves, but should word of such intent make 
it back to the heads of the Orders, and their actions 
begin to threaten the innocents they've sworn to pro- 
tect, they may find themselves among the hunted. 
RELATIONSHIPS 
The Claret Orders have no alliance with nor alle- 
giance to any standing government or group. Solitary 
in action and discreet in display, they've not drawn 
the attention of many factions in Tal'Dorei as of yet. 
However, it is only a matter of time before curious 
eyes begin to seek answers to questions about these 
dark guardians and their true nature. 
/ 
SYMBOL OF THE 
CLARET GROERS 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 54 ---
FIGURES OF INTEREST 
‘These figures are major members of the Claret 
Orders that you can use as NPCs in your game. You 
should also take inspiration from these figures to 
make up new NPCs for your own campaign. 
CLARET DIRECTOR ALASTERRE DE VITREVOS 
Human Blood Domain cleric of Ravens 
Calm and sanguine to a fault, Alasterre de Vitrevos 
is the youngest-ever director 
of Tal'Dorei’s Claret 
Order. He sees his position as one he deserves 
without question, and is willing to use 
his command 
more boldly than his mentor, director emeritus 
Teresa Dulamar. He is frequently seen in the field, 
working with various adventuring parties and his 
‘own blood hunters to wipe out monsters wher- 
ever they emerge. The combination of his relaxed 
personality and his aggressive strategy may seem a 
contradiction at first glance, but those who know him 
see the truth of the immense self-assurance that lets 
him make hard decisions without hesitation. This 
quality is a strength when coolheaded leadership 
is needed in the thick of battle, but it can make him 
challenging to work with as an equal. 
DIRECTOR EMERITUS TERESA DULAMAR 
Dwarf Blood Domain cleric of Ravens 
The former head of Tal'Dorei’s Claret Orders retired 
ten years ago after suffering a traumatic death in 
combat. Her soul accepted resurrection, but she 
took her defeat as a sign to let younger, fresher 
blood take her place. She remains a part of the 
Claret Orders to advise the current director on 
matters he is too young to have experienced himself, 
Though she displays a chilly demeanor, she simply 
keeps her compassionate side hidden from the 
untrusted riffraff. 
HUNTER JORICK LAMENSH 
Human blood hunter 
Once among the greatest of all blood hunters, Jorick 
is now Director Emeritus Teresa Dulamar's personal 
bodyguard. He is still a capable member of the Order 
of the Profane Soul, and urges immediate, decisive 
action to destroy demons and devils whenever their 
occult activity is discovered. 
THE CLASP 
The Clasp is a well-established secret organization 
consisting of spies, thieves, fences, assassins, sabo- 
teu 
ind smugglers. It was built upon the ruins of 
the Winksman Thieves’ Guild, an organization that 
flourished during the reign of Drassig, but crum- 
bled under the rule of Zan Tal'Dorei. Based largely 
in Emon—and under it, via a network of subterra- 
nean tunnels—the Clasp also runs smaller outfits 
CHAPTER 2: ALLEGIANCES 
OF TAL’DOREI 
in Westruun, Stilben, and Kymal. Members are 
branded with the guild's symbol on their mid-back, 
signifying allegiance and commitment. The Clasp 
operates like a business-minded family or mafia, 
celebrating loyalty and an ability to keep one’s word. 
A member pays their debts, keeps their promises, 
and always seeks opportunity for the betterment of 
the Clasp. 
Leaders of 
a Clasp sect bear the title of Spireling, 
and they oversee assigned elements of the organiza- 
tion’s functions. Spirelings hold equal power within 
a sect, and there is always an odd number acting 
within that location to break any disagreements over 
business ventures and actions. 
GOALS 
While most common folk assume that the Clasp is 
merely interested in profit at any cost (and that is a 
merit of the Clasp), they also wish to preserve the 
function and prosperity of civilization. It is com- 
monly held that a thriving city is a profitable one, and 
an enemy of civilization is a foe of the Clasp. They 
largely consider themselves a necessary dark under- 
belly, willing to do the under-the-table deeds that 
more wealthy and powerful citizens cannot commit 
with their own hands. On the other hand, less scru- 
pulous Spirelings also understand that discontent 
breeds profit, and have occasionally kindled the 
flames of unrest to keep things tense and profitable. 
Were it not for the branch of the Clasp in Emon, 
the Chroma Conclave's attack would likely have 
destroyed the city’s culture entirely. However, thanks 
to the Clasp's role as a “shadow civilization,” the 
people of Emon were able to maintain their foothold 
at home, even under the watchful eye of Thordak the 
Cinder King. 
53

--- PAGE 55 ---
RELATIONSHIPS 
A generation ago, the Clasp was considered by 
most to be an uncouth cesspool of cutthroats and 
criminals. These days, thousands of people know 
the Clasp as the roguish heroes who saved their 
lives, or the lives of their parents, from the Chroma 
Conclave. Nowhere is this truer than in Emon, where 
its Spirelings make public appearances and even, 
on occasion, deal openly with the Tal'Dorei Council. 
Nevertheless, Clasp agents outside of Emon keep 
their wits about them, for most local governments 
still view them as underhanded scoundrels—and 
not without reason. Most guards and town militias 
will arrest known Clasp members on sight; however, 
most Clasp members know well enough to have a 
friend on the force that will help them escape. 
The Clasp frowns upon dogmatic religion or 
cultish behavior, as it has conflicted with the 
organization's business in the past, and always 
ended messily. 
Since the arrival of the Myriad within Tal'Dorei 
from Wildemount, the Clasp has been on extremely 
high alert, seeking information on them and any 
‘means of banishing this new competition. Gang war- 
fare has broken out sporadically between the Clasp 
and the Myriad in ci 
from Stilben to Emon over the 
past twenty years, and though the rival organizations 
are currently at peace, everyone knows the whole 
thing is just one poached client away from reigniting. 
FIGURES OF INTEREST 
These figures are major members of the Clasp that 
you can.use as NPCs in your game. You should also 
take inspiration from these figures to make up new 
NPCs for your own campaign. 
SPIRELING SHENN 
Human Spireling of Secrets (Emon) 
A powerful illusionist, Shenn runs a far-reaching net- 
work of spies and informants. In his younger days, 
he was a canny negotiator 
who sought to spread the 
Clasp beyond Tal'Dorei. The arrival of the Myriad 
forced the Clasp onto the defensive, and he will never 
forgive them for souring his ambitions. 
‘SPIRELING WARREN 
Half-ore Spireling of Blades (Emon) 
Deadly duelist turned master assassin of the Clasp, 
Warren handles all contracts that involve kidnap- 
ping, assassination, and intimidation. He hates 
public appearances. 
SPIRELING ZILLOA 
Halfelf Spireling of Shadows (Emon) 
An accomplished burglar, Zilloa has risen to the 
head of all thieving, smuggling, and black-mar- 
ket dealings within the Clasp of Emon. She plays 
a dangerous game by enjoying follchero status 
as the public liaison between the Clasp and the 
Tal'Dorei Council. 
‘SPIRELING GHOLESH 
Human Spireling of Shadows (Westruun) 
Acrass and ambitious man, Gholesh's appearance 
is a mystery as his face is always hidden behind a 
leather mask that resembles an ogre. He has secretly 
thrown in his lot with the League of Miracles and, 
with their backing, he aspires to take over the Clasp 
and enjoy all its wealth and prestige. 
SPIRELING MELCHIOR 
Tiefling Spireling of Blades (Westruun) 
This clean-faced, curly-haired tiefling with pale blue 
skin and stubby horns may have a soft, babyish 
visage, but it belies their powerful physique. They are 
equally skilled with a sword, axe, or bow, and made 
their name in underground brawling rings before 
joining the Clasp. 
SPIRELING FETCH 
Halfling Spireling of Secrets (Westruun) 
Creepy and unkempt in appearance, Fetch's gaunt 
face only distracts from his cunning and skills of 
keen manipulation. 
GOLDEN GRIN 
In dark times, entertainment and good cheer are just 
as vital as resistance. During the despotic rule of 
King Warren Drassig and his sons, a group of bards, 
dancers, and storytellers united to subvert his rule 
and inspire the people to rise against him. This band 
took the name “the Golden Grin” and traveled across 
the realm to offer escapism and entertainment, all 
while planting the seeds of discontent, rebellion, 
and heroism. 
Since the fall of Drassig, the Golden Grin has been 
ever-present, using song, comedy, and theatrics to 
inspire the people of Tal’ Dorei to endure hardship 
CREST OF THE GOLDEN GRIN 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 56 ---
and fight back against evil. These “Grinners” include 
among their ranks spiritual leaders, artists, musi- 
cians, innkeepers, and dozens of retired adventurers 
who still want to do good outside the public eye. 
Little is publicly known about the Golden Grin, other 
than myths and rumors, and the Grinners gladly 
perpetuate these tall tales. 
GOALS 
The Golden Grin (or simply “the Grin’) exists to 
enlighten and inspire, keeping ears and eyes out for 
the murmurs of tyranny and cruelty. The Grin’s core 
philosophy is that each and every person is capable 
of great things alone, and even greater things 
together. Rather than taking direct action them- 
selves, most Grinners use songs and tales of great 
heroes to galvanize people to action. 
RELATIONSHIPS 
The Golden Grin claims no formal allies, nor do 
members reveal their secret affiliation to outsiders 
unless circumstances are dire indeed. They use their 
covert, grassroots power to empower local freedom 
fighters and activists. Some Grinners do occasion- 
ally find their way into government, granting them a 
higher vantage point and platform to disseminate the 
ideals behind their cause—but even these members 
of the Grin take a dim 
view of the slowly turning 
gears of bureaucracy. 
Enemies of the Golden Grin are those that oppress 
and abuse freedom of expression and living. The 
Grin likewise mistrusts people and institutions that 
control or regulate the populace too heavily, even i 
they seem to have the best of intentions. 
FIGURES OF INTEREST 
‘These figures are major members of the Golden Grin 
that you can use as NPCs in your game. You should 
also take inspiration from these figures to make up 
new NPCs for your own campaign. 
THEONA BALMHAND 
Gnome cleric of the Lawbearer 
A wandering healer hailing from Kymal, Theona 
lives by donation and perpetually travels from place 
to place, seeking to aid who she can and to learn 
whatever the people whisper. 
Doctor DRANZEL 
Halfore traveling bard 
A jovial and lackadaisical violinist and frontman for 
Doctor Dranzel's Traveling Troupe, the renowned 
Doctor Dranzel exaggerates his stage persona for a 
number of reasons, not the least of which is to make 
him seem like a preening fool—the perfect cover for 
a master spy of the Grin. 
CHAPTER 
2: ALLEGIANCES OF TAL’DOREI 
HOUSES OF KRAGHAMMER 
‘The fortified, subterranean city-state of Kraghammer 
was carved out of the bedrock of the Cliffkeep Moun- 
tains in the years following the Divergence. Itis the 
ancestral home of the native dwarves of Tal'Dorei, 
and the five major bloodlines that founded the city in 
ages past still rule to this day. The ruling families are 
Houses Greyspine, Zuurthom, Bronzegrip, Thunder- 
brand, and Glorendar. These Great Houses elect an 
official to the office of Ironkeeper every ten years to 
keep the alliances between houses just and healthy. 
Though the culture of Kraghammer is highly 
traditional and as stoic as the stone it was carved 
from, it is not without unrest. It seems every dwarven 
generation has its own great social movement where 
disenfranchised workers or greedy, lesser noble 
houses attempt to unseat the ruling five. Yet for good 
or for ill, the Great Houses have time and time again 
shown that they can put aside their differences to 
preserve their mutual rulership. 
GOALS 
Each ruling house has a specialty and holds 
responsibility over that domain within 
Kragham- 
mer. House Greyspine maintains the largest mine 
under Kraghammer, as well as the Pools of Solace. 
House Zuurthom trains the chief architects of the 
ity, and most masonry and building is organized 
through them. House Bronzegrip funds the smithing 
guilds and maintains the Bronzegrip Metalworks, 
Kraghammer's largest blast furnace and ore refin- 
ery. House Thunderbrand prides itself on training 
Kraghammer's foremost scholars and premiere 
arcanists. House Glorendar maintains the law and 
delivers punishment. 
RELATIONSHIPS 
Almost every dwarf living in Kraghammer can 
remember a time when, “Kraghammer for the 
dwarves!” was a common cheer at the pubs. And 
when they said, “for the dwarves,” they meant just 
HERALDRY 
OF THE HOUSES OF KRAGHAMMER

--- PAGE 57 ---
Five the fingers that grasp hammer or blad: 
Five Houses 
of Kraghammer rightly made: 
Greyspine delves ‘neath dwarven halls, 
Zuurthom raises stony walls, 
Bronzegrip masters of metal w 
Thunderbrand uncovers secrets sought. 
And Glorenthal to judgments hear: 
In Kraghammer, dwarf-folk need never fear, 
—A CHILD'S LEARNING RHYME FROM 
KRRCHAMM 
the dwarves born in Kraghammer. Times have 
changed. The prevailing opinion is that a unified 
Tal'Dorei 
is best for all. Those dwarves whose tra- 
ditionalism is just a veil for bigotry have found that 
they aren't welcome in Kraghammer—they've subse- 
quently retreated to make their own isolated enclaves 
in the Cliftkeeps. 
‘The Houses of Kraghammer facilitate a healthy 
trade of metals, weapons, and armor with Emon 
and Westruun, These bonds of commerce and 
communication have only grown stronger since an 
ambassador from Kraghammer has taken a seat on 
the Tal'Dorei Council. 
Many members of House Thunderbrand also have 
ties to the Arcana Pansophical. However, lesser 
clans with aspirations of supplanting 
the renowned 
‘Thunderbrands have thrown their lot in with the 
League of 
Miracles, 
hoping to become the new 
masters of the arcane. They have been wooed by to 
this upstart faction with promises of disrupting the 
old ways of commerce and prestige, establishing 
something new. 
FIGURES OF INTEREST 
These figures are major members of the Houses 
of Kraghammer that you can use as NPCs 
your game. You should also take inspiration from 
these figures 
to make up new NPCs for your 
‘own campaign. 
IRONKEEPER PALLUDA ZUURTHOM. 
Dwarf Ironkeeper 
of House Greyspine 
Even after weathering the Chroma Conclave, uniting 
Kraghammer's squabbling houses in support of the 
Tal'Dorei Council was no mean feat. Ironkeeper 
Palluda of House Zuurthom proved up to the task. 
They made a name for themself 
by taking control of 
a trade deal that ultimately sold tens of thousands of 
gold pieces’ worth of quarried stone to the League 
Of Miracles, which began the reconstruction of 
Tal’Dorei in earnest. Palluda became a hero of the 
working dwarf within Kraghammer. They are a mas- 
ter at getting all sides to agree to a compromise, and 
do so with an iron-edged smile. 
Lorp Nostoc GREYSPINE 
Dwarf overseer of House Greyspine 
‘The dour executive of dozens of quarries across 
the Cliffkeep Mountains, Nostoc makes up for 
his unpleasant personality by being a formidable 
businessman, In recent years, he has become fabu- 
lously wealthy as the reconstruction of cities across 
Tal'Dorei devoured thousands of tons of stone. 
House Thunderbrand and the League of Miracles 
made it possible to transport it all with teleporta- 
tion spells. 
ELEMENTALIST DRAKE THUNDERBRAND. 
Dwarf evoker of House Thunderbrand 
One of the eldest of his House, Drake is known 
for his surprising empathy and fierce temper. He 
is also a member of the Arcana Pansophical. His 
friendship with Allura Vysoren made him a popular 
choice for Kraghammer’s ambassador to the council, 
but he politely refused, claiming it was a younger 
dwarfs duty. 
LEAGUE OF MIRACLES 
‘Magic isn’t cheap, but mi 
3s.” Such 
is the credo of the Wonderworker, the mysterious 
thaumaturge whose words inspire and guide the 
League of Miracles. This company of mercenary 
magi is the reason why Tal'Dorei has recovered so 
rapidly from the near-apocalyptic destruction of the 
Chroma Conclave. Westruun and Emon rose from 
rubble to the height of their former glory in a matter 
of months. 
The people of Tal'Dorei adore the league. Their 
mighty spellwrought adranachs (a new creature 
described on page 223) can be seen 
lifting thou- 
sand-pound bricks of limestone high into the sky to 
rebuild walls, towers, and even castles in a matter of 
days. Many of the league's spellwrights have become 
folk heroes and celebrities for their miraculous acts, 
which range from healing those maimed in the Con- 
clave's attack to transmuting raw timber, mud, and 
straw into full-fledged houses in minutes. 
For most of Tal'Dorei’s elite, the League of Mir- 
acles is likewise a great ally. Trade and travel have 
resumed stronger than before, for the league has 
eagerly subcontracted their talented mages out as. 
guards for caravans and persons of interes 
Yet, not everyone sees the league as an ally. In 
the early aftermath of Thordak’s defeat, the new 
and untested Tal'Dorei Council put out thousands 
of bounties on reconstruction projects to get their 
towns and cities back on their feet, and local mayors 
and mangraves across the nation agreed to these 
subsidies to reduce the cost of reconstruction for 
their already devastated populace. They expected 
Tal'Dorei’s rebirth to be a multigenerational under- 
taking—yet the League of Miracles snapped up these 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 58 ---
bounties like candy, and the league does not work 
their miracles cheaply. Bills for hundreds of thou- 
sands of gold pieces’ worth of bounties found their 
way to the desks of local leaders and to the Tal'Dorei 
Council by the end of the year. Such vast wealth for 
thirty years’ worth of rebuilding in three years’ time 
simply did not exist. 
But this was all part of the Wonderworker's plan, 
and their spellwrights executed it flawlessly. The 
league needs money to purchase their expensive 
spell components and to pay their talented merce- 
nary membership, of course, but their true goal is the 
priceless currency of power, in the form of political 
favors from leaders ranging from small-town mayors, 
to city-ruling margraves, and even delegates to the 
Tal'Dorei Council. Rumors even swirl that one or 
more of the members of the council itself are in the 
league's pocket. 
‘The league's members are delineated into a simple 
hierarchy. 
Mercenary Mage. Spellcasters drawn from across 
Tal'Dorei form the backbone of the League of 
Miracles. The league works as an agency, handing 
mercenaries lucrative jobs, collecting the payment 
themselves, and paying out in a timely fashion 
minus twenty percent. These mercenaries come 
from all walks of life. Some are aspiring adventur- 
ers seeking a less life-threatening first gig, while 
others are skilled arcanists with shady pasts, 
including Remnant cultists and double-dipping 
Myriad agents with a talent for magi 
Spellwright. The most talented (or best-connected) 
members of the league are awarded the title of 
spellwright. Only two dozen such masters 
of the 
arcane exist across Tal'Dorei. These spellwrights 
know the secrets of how to create adranachs, 
mighty constructs of magical energy that were 
used publicly to rebuild Tal'Dorei’s ravaged 
infrastructure—and are also used in secret as 
CHAPTER 
2: ALLEGIANCES OF TAL’DOREL 
hunter-destroyers of the league’s enemies. These 
spellwrights sign a blood pact that connects their 
minds to the mysterious communications of the 
Wonderworker, which all spellwrights are blood- 
bound to interpret and enact. 
Grand Thaumaturge. The official title of the 
league's shadowy master is the Grand Thauma- 
turge, though most colloquially refer to them 
as the Wonderworker. None know their true 
identity, or their ultimate goal. The spellwrights 
understand that the Grand Thaumaturge has a 
master plan that must be followed. Only these 
spellwrights have the privilege of hearing their 
master's psychic messages. Over the years, they 
have interpreted them to mean that the League of 
Miracles must become the secret puppet-masters 
of all Tal'Dorei, 
GOALS 
The League of Miracles is comprised mostly of 
mercenary magi pulled from all corners of Tal'Dorei, 
with some even coming from abroad as news of the 
league's reputation spreads across Exandria. For 
most of these arcanists, their goal is simple: to make 
money. The goals of the league's spellwrights are 
more elaborate. They listen for the cryptic words of 
the mysterious Grand Thaumaturge and dedicate 
themselves to deciphering and enacting their grand 
design. The spellwrights’ current aim is one of total 
control—once all of Tal'Dorei’s social and political 
elite are in their pockets, they can shape the land as 
they see fit, all to the cheering adoration of the fawn- 
ing people of Tal’Dorei 
RELATIONSHIPS 
The League of Miracles tries to keep cordial, if 
distant, relationships with every major power on 
Tal'Dorei. Their public image is shiny and unim- 
peachable. Many members of the Tal’Dorei Council 
are already in their 
pocket and cast votes that further 
the league's self-interest. The Arcana Pansophi- 
cal—especially Allura Vysoren, who also sits on the 
council—are deeply distrustful of this unregulated, 
uncommonly powerful organization. 
The League of Miracles has a tense relationship 
with the Chamber of Whitestone, as they have long 
sought access to the residuum unique to that ter- 
ritory. The spellwrights fear outright hostility with 
the legendary heroes of Vox Machina, and have sup- 
posedly abandoned their quest to mine Whitestone’s 
naturally occurring residuum. 
As “no questions asked” employers of mages, the 
league is in the good graces of many less scru- 
pulous arcane factions, including the Remnants. 
Necromancers, blood mages, Ruidus cultists, and 
other unsavory magi now exist under the league's 
protection, 
Rn aT 
57

--- PAGE 59 ---
58 
FIGURES OF INTEREST 
These figures are major members of the League of 
Miracles that you can use as NPCs in your game. 
You should also take inspiration from these figures 
to make up new NPCs for your own campaign. 
THE WONDERWORKER 
Mysterious enactor of true miracles 
All spellwrights hear the authoritative—yet enigmat- 
ically distorted—voice of the Wonderworker. The 
Wonderworker has supposedly appeared in the flesh 
only three times throughout the league's twenty- 
four-year history, as a humanoid draped in robes 
of starlight and wearing a mithral mask. In those 
moments, they have produced true miracles—raising 
a castle from the ground in a matter of seconds, halt- 
ing the rampaging silver dragon Saldarthoryn in her 
tracks and healing her twisted mind, and stopping 
the Center Slab of Kraghammer from collapsing into 
the Pits in a catastrophic mining accident that would 
have cost countless lives. These legendary acts 
inspired utmost awe and faith in all who witnessed 
them, leading the spellwrights to create adranachs 
in the Wonderworker's image and enact their 
cryptic will. 
BLAINE KRAVERROGG 
Halt-halfling mercenary necromancer 
Short and brimming with a malign lust for power, 
Blaine appears to be a short, skeletally skinny 
human who hides his lack of stature in billow- 
ing black-and-gold robes. He is a member of the 
Remnants, but pays his bills by doing undercover 
grave-robbing for the league. He longs to reach the 
bottom of Shadebarrow, a mysterious crypt some- 
where on the Dividing Plains. His obsession with 
Shadebarrow stems from a hunger for the power of 
the Demon Prince of Undeath. 
HONOR KINNABARI 
Tiefling blood mage and novice spellwright 
As the newest spellwright in the League of Miracles, 
Honor Kinnabari has a lot to prove. She was granted 
a chance to prove her quality in the eyes of the 
Wonderworker when the league was contracted to 
rebuild the Market Ward of Westruun after it was 
devastated by a herd of magma landsharks that 
descended from the Cliffkeep Mountains. Her red 
eyes and sheet-white skin and horns complement a 
traditional red-and-white mage’s robe from the reclu- 
sive dwarven clans of the Alabaster Sierras. She is 
fully dedicated to the league, but she is as honorable 
as her name implies; her fellow spellwrights fear that 
she could turn traitor, should the unsavory truth of 
the league be laid plain before her. 
LIBRARY OF THE COBALT SOUL 
The Cobalt Reserve in Westruun is home to a monas- 
tic order so old, enduring, and tirelessly dedicated 
to the preservation of knowledge that most people 
in Tal’Dorei simply take it for granted. Just as birds 
have always flown and grass has always grown, the 
Library of the Cobalt Soul has always sent its agents 
across the world, taking minutes at public trials, 
archiving broadsheets, exploring ancient ruins, and 
copying scrolls. To all but the most dedicated schol- 
ars, the work of the Cobalt Soul seems like dreary, 
banal stuff. 
Nothing could be further from the truth. Beneath 
the veneer of being 
a dopey order of bookish monks, 
the Cobalt Soul is one of the most dogged espionage 
organizations in the world. The secret agents of the 
Cobalt Soul, its expositors, are spies who wield the 
truth as.a weapon more potent than any blade. The 
Cobalt Soul was born in Wildemount, just after the 
nnd of the Calamity, when the Knowing Mentor was 
maimed by an evil god. Her most loyal followers 
went into hiding and vowed to continue her divine 
work in knowing all there is to be known—and 
most importantly, to use the truth as a holy weapon 
against lies and propaganda. 
Each archive of the Cobalt Soul has a common 
hierarchy, and higher-ranking members of the Cobalt 
Soul can command their lower-ranking comrades 
from another archive. 
Monk. The monks of the Cobalt Soul are their most 
visible members, for they travel the land in search 
of knowledge both modern and archa 
monks are engaged in fieldwork, espec 
recruits. Those who work entirely within an 
archive aid in the organization and preservation 
of information. Few know that these monks are 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 60 ---
dedicated to the Knowing Mentor; the common 
opinion in Tal'Dorei is that they are ascetics, 
obsessively dedicated to the chronicling of know!- 
edge, not devotees of an obscure god. 
Expositor. Trained in the art of espionage, the 
expositors of the Cobalt Soul use their infiltration 
expertise to uncover the secrets of governments, 
world leaders, and obscure cults. 
In times of great 
undercover expositors have even incited 
revolutions by sharing the knowledge they discov- 
ered with people toiling under evil regimes. Thi 
true mission of the expositors is a secret even to 
low-ranking monks, who see them simply as well 
trained field agents. 
Archivist. Though they are not involved in field 
work, archivists play the vital role of organizing 
the overwhelming flow of information that the 
monks and expositors return to their archive. 
They also train new monks and perform admin- 
istrative tasks, like negotiating with sellers of 
artifacts and with government officials to ensure 
the stability of their archive. 
Curator. A small group of three to five curators man- 
age the top-level operations of each archive. One 
of their number is given the special designation of 
High Curator, to whom all other members of their 
archive must ultimately answer. 
GOALS 
The public mission statement of the Cobalt Soul is to 
archive knowledge for the betterment of all peoples 
of Exandria. The secret mission of the Cobalt Soul 
is to use their accumulated knowledge to root out 
tyranny and ensure the freedom of all people. 
As instructed by their reclusive god, the Knowing 
Mentor, the Cobalt Soul in Tal’Dorei makes their 
archives available to everyone, so that knowledge 
can be used to improve and enrich the lives of all. 
Despite this, the curators of the Cobalt Reserve 
privately determine what knowledge is too volatile 
to be freely disseminated. Typically, this privileged 
information is magical in nature, but it also includes 
secrets recovered by expositors that must be strate- 
gically employed as a weapon against unjust leaders, 
cults, and power-hungry factions. 
The Cobalt Soul itself 
is not immune to corrup- 
tion and complacency. Nowhere is this truer than in 
the Cobalt Soul's birthplace of Wildemount, where 
it must work hand-in-hand with the authoritarian 
Dwendalian Empire. Its highest officials say that the 
Cobalt Soul has outlasted every tyrant on Exandria, 
and that they must be content with small acts of 
insurrection—subtly subverting propaganda and 
sharing the truth with any who will listen—while 
waiting for the right moment to strike a fatal blow. 
Nevertheless, this mantra of patience has caused 
‘some of its more radical members to abandon the 
CHAPTER 
2: ALLEGIANCES 
OF TAL’DOREI 
order entirely. Typically, deserters of the Cobalt Soul 
are expositors, who see the ugliest side of the world 
firsthand again and again. 
RELATIONSHIPS 
The Cobalt Soul is an international organization 
with archives in the Dwendalian Empire 
and Clovis 
Concord of Wildemount, the Republic of Tal'Dorei, 
the Dawn City of Vassetheim on Issyira, and the 
great city of Ank’'Harel on Marquet. Each of these 
archives acts independently under the orders of their 
commanding High Curator, though they must ulti- 
mately answer to the joint leadership of the Cobalt 
Soul: the High Curators of the Rexxentrum and 
Vasselheim archives. 
Though Tal'Dorei isa freer society than the Dwen- 
dalian Empire, the Cobalt Soul knows better than to 
think that means itis free of corruption. From the Cobalt 
Reserve, their archive in the city of Westruun, 
the Cobalt 
Soul keeps close tabs on members of the Tal'Dorei 
Council, the leaders of Syngorn and Kraghammer, and 
other powerful individuals across the land. 
The Cobalt Sou! actively opposes the Remnants— 
followers of the Whispered One, a tyrannical god of 
secrets who is diametrically opposed to the goals of 
the Knowing Mentor. They are also concerned by 
the meteoric rise of a guild of arcanists called the 
League of Miracles, whose political maneuverings 
have made puppets of dozens of delegates to the 
Tal'Dorei Council and political leaders across the 
land. This worry has only deepened as rumors reach 
them of the league filling their ranks with Remnant 
cultists who seek to dominate Tal'Dorei. 
FIGURES OF INTEREST 
These figures are major members of the Library 
of the Cobalt Soul that you can use as NPCs in 
your game. You should also take inspiration from 
these figures to make up new NPCs for your 
‘own campaign. 
HIGH CURATOR GREISALDA CASSIOS 
Half-dragonblood leader of the Cobalt Reserve 
The High Curator of the Westruun archive of the 
Cobalt Soul is a high-cheekboned, bald woman 
who would appear fully human if not for her slitted, 
er eyes and the silver scales that run across her 
head, neck, and upper arms. She is regarded as one 
ofthe fastest minds in Tal'Dorei, for she has the 
rare gift of perfect recall. Monks tremble when her 
lear, unpretentious voice rings through an archive 
chamber, for Greisalda remembers acts of justice 
and personal slights with equal intensity, making 
her a powerful ally and a furious enemy. She is con- 
cerned that corruption is spreading throughout the 
Tal'Dorei Council. 
59

--- PAGE 61 ---
‘CRESSIDA HOLT 
Ore expositor of the Cobalt Reserve 
‘The name Cressida Holt is synonymous with style 
and effortless charisma—and also a blunt, merciless 
coldness. Cressida is nonbinary, and uses both she 
and they pronouns interchangeably. Though she's 
fresh blood to the expositors of the Cobalt Reserve, 
she has already taken advantage of her license to 
kill on her espionage missions. They are slim for 
an ore, but still more muscular than many of their 
human colleagues. Their assignments take them 
across Tal’ Dorei in search of political corruption. 
She is currently stationed in Emon to observe a per- 
son of interest on the Tal'Dorei Council, where she 
alternates between lurking on rooftops and striding 
through ballrooms in fine suits. 
ARCHIVIST SALOMANE ROTHTREE 
Half-elf archivist of the Cobalt Reserve 
A haggard, overworked administrator, Archivist 
Rothtree is known throughout the Cobalt Reserve 
as someone who tries too hard to prove himself and 
constantly bites off more than he can chew. Half-ore 
and half-elf, he has said that he hopes to accomplish. 
as much in his lifetime as an elf could in theirs. He 
often is tasked with helping adventurers find infor- 
mation. Though he resents the task, he may slowly 
open up to heroes who treat him well. 
THE MYRIAD 
Wildemount’s greatest organized crime ring is now 
becoming known throughout Tal'Dorei, but it came 
from humble beginnings. The Myriad bega 
the Dwendalian city of Yrrosa, as a small shipping 
company specializing in exotic goods and services, 
exploiting and selling curiosities from the distant 
continents of Othanzia and Ank'Harel. Over time, 
as legal trading became more difficult, the Myriad’s 
illegal occupations became their best business. 
Through years establishing underworld contacts 
and tactical blackmail, the Myriad evolved into a 
powerful, well-veiled criminal faction. Over the 
past two decades, the Myriad’s aspirations have 
spread beyond Wildemount, and they are now deeply 
entrenched in Tal’Dorei's criminal underworld. 
Known for displays of opulence and social grace, 
this misdirection enables the Myriad to seduce and 
control the lives and wills of whomever is deemed 
valuable to their plans. Dozens of truly amoral cut- 
throats and thieves noticed when the Clasp began to 
work hand-in-hand with the Tal’Dorei Council. They 
felt the dagger of accountability pressed against their 
backs, and broke with their former guild. Now, the 
Myriad has filled the vacuum of truly lawless crimi- 
nality that the Clasp left in its wake. 
The Myriad operates as a loose network of gangs 
whose bosses run their own localized sects, without 
direct oversight from the mysterious heads of the 
society. Tithes and information are expected to be 
delivered to the leadership at a steady rate from 
each satellite of the organization, and should the 
slow, threats of en: 
ent or 
destructi 
soon follow. 
GOALS 
The Myriad seeks wealth in hideous excess. The 
means are unimportant, as long as they're lucra- 
tive. No trade is too abhorrent, from bloody theft to 
kidnapping and slavery. And though they lack the 
political capital to bribe and puppeteer politicians 
the way they did in Wildemount, the Myriad are 
confident that they can get even the supposedly noble 
Tal'Dorei Council in their pocket. 
Most fronts for the Myriad are businesses that 
publicly deal in antiquities and exotic textiles. 
Behind these masks 
is a ruthlessly efficient black 
market of slaves, magical beasts, weapons, and illicit 
substances. Overt violence tends to draw unwanted, 
attention, and the Myriad avoid it when possible, pre- 
fering to discredit, blackmail, or frame those who 
cross them. Should that fail, however, 
kidnapping 
or assassination can be a quick and traceless final 
alternative. 
RELATIONSHIPS 
Though they are relative newcomers to the criminal 
underworld of Tal’Dorei, the Myriad is well-versed 
in the covert art of making money by any means nec- 
essary. The Clasp is well aware of their presence in 
the broadest sense, and the two thieves’ guilds have 
spilled blood in the streets of every city in Tal Dot 
at some point in the past twenty years. These days, 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 62 ---
the bloodshed has subsided into a cold war of espi- 
‘onage and counterespionage, as each organization 
tries to sabotage the other. 
The Myriad 
has only been routed from cities a 
number of times—they no longer have any presence 
in Whitestone or Syngorn—and each time, it has 
been by a concentrated citizens’ uprising. In both 
instances, when they sought the source, Myriad 
leaders were furious to discover an empty safe house 
containing only a single gold coin, marked by a grin- 
ning face: the calling card of the Golden Grin. Even 
across the Lucidian Ocean, the old enmity between 
the Myriad and the Golden Grin remains today. 
FIGURES OF INTEREST 
These figures are major members of the Myriad that 
you can use as NPCs in your game. You should also 
take inspiration from these figures to make up new 
NPCs for your own campaign. 
LUSTRAN “THE BACKSTABBER” ZETH 
Human boss of Stilben 
Lustran was one of the first Clasp members to 
turn double agent. By the time anyone realized his 
betrayal, he had granted the Myriad their foothold 
in Tal’Dorei in the swampy port city of Stilben. His 
lean, hungry face and graying hair give him a hand- 
some, intimidating appearance. 
All Myriad agents in 
Tal'Dorei respect him, and all members of the Clasp 
hate him, He revels in his bad reputation as the 
renowned Backstabber 
of Stilben. 
TULLY “THE CONCLAVE OF ONE” DEZZERAM 
Gold dragonblood boss of Emon 
Tully's distasteful nickname delights her inner circle 
in Emon's underground. The Myriad boss of Emon is 
a position that usually changes hands by the season, 
thanks to the diligent efforts of the Clasp, but Tully 
has evaded capture for three years, and grown rich 
and powerful in her reign of smuggling, trafficking, 
and grand burglary. 
‘SYLKER “THE MILLIONAIRE” UTTOLOT 
Half-elf boss of Kymal 
This 
gold-eyed half-elf, a former underling 
of the 
crime families of Shady Creek Run in Wildemount, 
joined the Myriad and became the first individual on 
that continent to hoard one million gold pieces. He 
has a masterful mind for money, and spearheaded 
the Myriad’s infiltration of Kymal. “Gold 
is a dis- 
ase,” he often says, “and I'm bloody sick.” 
CHAPTER 
2: ALLEGIANCES 
OF TAL’DOREI 
THE REMNANTS 
In atime long past, an archmage of unparalleled 
power known as the Whispered One attempted 
to ascend to godhood by conducting 
the Ritual of 
Seeding from high atop the citadel of Thar Ampala 
within the Plane of Shadow. The Whispered One 
surrounded himself with a cult of fanatical mages 
and empowered murderers to protect him during 
apotheosis. Despite these protections, he failed. His 
cult, however, survived, and helped him return to 
power centuries later, after the defeat of the Chroma 
Conclave. He succeeded in his bid for godhood, but 
was kept from utterly dominating 
the Material Plane 
at the last second by Vox Machina, who banished 
him beyond the Divine Gate, where he was shackled 
by all the same limitations as the other gods. 
His 
cult, the Remnants, went into hiding once 
again. Their fanatical ranks, bolstered by his true 
apotheosis, now seethe in secret, convinced that 
there is a way to grant their god the ultimate power 
he sought. Many of them have wormed their way into 
positions of power within Tal’Dore’’s political institu- 
tions, churches, arcane organizations, and criminal 
outfits. Many more have joined up with the dubiously 
moral, profit-driven arcanists of the League of Mira- 
cles. They exist in shadows, lurking, waiting, longing 
for a new dark prophet to lead them to glory. 
CREST OF THE REMNANTS 
61

--- PAGE 63 ---
GOALS 
‘The Whispered One achieved an incomplete victory 
‘over twenty years ago, and now his cult is building 
‘a new generation of faithful to make his megalo- 
maniacal dreams a reality. The cult’s leadership 
believes that reuniting these malign artifacts will 
give them greater power to commune with their god 
and let them begin their quest in earnest to reach 
him through the Divine Gate. This leadership is 
known as the Circle of the Dismembered. Each cult 
leader in the circle commands a branch of the cult, 
named for 
a part of the Whispered One's body. These 
factions are: 
The Unveiled Sight. Members of 
this cult are tasked 
with scouring the planes for arcane lore that could 
restore their master to the Material Plane. 
‘The Mordant Voice. Members of 
this cult serve 
their master by infiltrating other factions across 
Tal’Dorei and subverting their purposes with 
subtle propaganda. 
The Devouring Blood. Members of this cult special- 
ize in the art of silent death. They train in stealth and 
necromancy to become truly horrific assassins. 
‘The Unseen Touch. Members of this cult are trained 
in magic that corrupts the mind and perverts the 
will, making them vile puppet-masters that pre- 
pare the world for their god’s return, 
The Insatiable Heart. Members of this cult do the 
vital ground-level work of seeking out new blood. 
They are trained to exploit the emotional weak- 
nesses of their targets to convert them to the cult, 
without the need of magic. 
RELATIONSHIPS 
The Remnants remain largely unknown, even after 
their master's grand ascension, and wish to keep it 
that way. Those who are aware of their presence are 
either cult members or people who have uncovered 
their insidious existence and wish to stamp it out 
wherever it may appear. Thus, there are rarely any 
alliances made by or with the Remnants. 
FIGURES OF INTEREST 
These figures are major members of the Remnants 
that you can use as NPCs in your game. You should 
also take inspiration from these figures to make up 
new NPCs for your own campaign. 
QUINTON Puck 
Human jeweler, Master of the Unveiled Sight 
While he runs a middling jewelry business within 
Emon, Quinton is secretly the leader of the Unveiled 
Sight. He is a master of creating and piercing illu- 
sions, deciphering ancient script, and all things to do 
with the magical arts of obscurement and unveiling. 
He can be recognized by his blood-red spectacle: 
IxratTu KHAR 
Tiefling vampire, Master of the Devouring Blood 
This escapee from the Black Bastille prison in Emon 
is Tal'Dorei's most infamous mass murderer, who 
once slaughtered and consumed hundreds of inno- 
cents on a deadly killing spree from Kymal to Emon. 
During her imprisonment, Ixrattu was plagued by 
shadowy visions of a woman beckoning to her from 
beyond the bars. The visions pointed her towards 
weaknesses within the Black Bastille’s guard, and 
helped her achieve the unthinkable: escape. Once 
free, she vanished for a year as she scoured the 
countryside, puzzling over the cryptic whispers of 
her continuing visions. 
At the end of her quest was a fateful discovery: 
within a lightless underground passage, she found 
the venomous crossbow Condemner, a Vestige 
of Divergence (see page 204). Now she lurks in 
Kraghammer, where she trains a network of elite 
assassins who gleefully dispatch anyone the Unveiled 
Sight identifies as an enemy of the Remnants. 
[RATTU KHAR 
TAL’DORE! CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 64 ---
WARDENS OF SYNGORN 
The elven city-state of Syngorn was established in 
the Verdant Expanse by the sorceress Yenlara, the 
wood elves’ first leader after the Divergence. Today, 
the physical and cultural wellbeing 
of Syngorn is 
safeguarded by the three offices of elders called 
Wardens, united by the High Warden. Their primary 
duty is to protect the city and the surrounding lands 
from intrusion, 
GOALS 
The Wardens believe that preserving the ancient 
culture of Syngorn is of utmost importance. Even 
as their fate grows ever more closely tied to the fate 
of all Tal'Dorei, the traditions that make Syngorn 
unique must be conserved. The three offices of the 
Wardens are the Verdant Lord, the Voice of Memory, 
and the Guildrunner. The office of Verdant Lord 
commands Syngorn’s formidable military, which is 
maintained and scattered throughout the Verdant 
Expanse, ready to be called to Syngorn’s defense at a 
moment's notice. 
As preservers of culture, the Wardens also encour- 
age public respect for the arts, including the art of 
magic. It's not uncommon for a Syngornian to rise in 
social status after being publicly praised by a warden 
for a masterful artistic creation or performance. 
RELATIONSHIPS 
‘Syngorn has long been an isolationist society. As a 
mostly elven enclave, they have often been criticized 
as xenophobic, or even racist, toward outsiders. 
There is truth to these claims. Nevertheless, the rise 
and fall of the Chroma Conclave has goaded even 
some of Syngorn's most conservative voices into 
strengthening the bonds of trade, travel, and kin- 
ship with the other free peoples of Tal’Dorei. Even 
the people of Kraghammer, who many elves still 
remember siding with the tyrant Drassig in centuries 
past, have been welcomed as friends and allies for 
the loyalty and courage they displayed in the battle 
against Thordak. 
FIGURES OF INTEREST 
These figures are major members of the Wardens 
of Syngorn that you can use 
as NPCs in your game. 
You should also take inspiration from these figures 
to make up new NPCs for your own campaign. 
HIGH WARDEN TIRELDA 
Elf Warden of Syngorn 
‘Though she is in her twilight years, even by elven 
standards, High Warden Tirelda is a trusted 
descendent of Yenlara, founder of Syngorn. She is 
skilled with magic and blessed with calm wis- 
dom. Thus, she was entrusted with the highest 
CHAPTER 
2: ALLEGIANCES OF TAL’DOREL 
level of responsibility amongst the Wardens—to 
maintain law, guide society, and preside over all 
other Wardens. 
VERDANT LORD CELINDAR 
Elf Warden of Syngorn 
Head of the Verdant Guard of Syngorn, and an 
accomplished warrior in their own right, Celin- 
dar handles all military strategy and instruction 
within the forest's bounds. They only return to 
Syngorn when called by their fellow wardens, and 
can otherwise constantly be found prowling the 
Verdant Expanse. They use any pronouns, and have 
relinquished any sort of gender presentation after 
receiving a vision from the Arch Heart. 
OUESTRA, THE VOICE OF MEMORY 
Elf Warden of Syngorn 
A renowned historian and a beloved vocalist, Ques- 
tra is charged with the preservation of Syngorn's 
history and culture. It's said her most magical songs 
can control moonlight and bring light even to the 
Abyss itself. These days, she has grown somewhat 
unpopular by also singing songs of Syngorn’s darker 
days, for she says true greatness can only be inspired 
by learning from failure. 
(GUILDRUNNER RAWNDEL 
Elf Warden of Syngorn 
One of the oldest living elves within Syngorn, 
Rawndel is more cunning 
and insightful than most, 
allowing him to be a very effective head of com- 
merce, business, and the treasury. 
HERALORY OF THE WARDENS OF SYNGORN 
63

--- PAGE 65 ---
P 
i 
c 
" 
bcs

--- PAGE 66 ---
SHAPTER 3 
TAL'DOREI 
iy journeys, andmy mind still finds itself drawn 
back lo Tal’Dorei. Ain’tno place in this world more 
vibrant; the land feels young. Unscarred. Mind you, 
that sort 
of calm causes my old bones 
to itch, too. 
Folk in that land are kind and honest, and its.vistas 
‘are second to none, yet..wwell, Illjust say that cities 
tare cities, and the wilds are the wilds. TalDore?’s 
got plenty of both. Keep a sword or a wand with 
you wherever you go, adventurer: 
u 
—NORAD FIRTH, CAPTAIN OF THE 
This chapter conta 
the lands of Tal'Dorei, the adventures to be found 
therein, and the many centers 
of civilization to be 
found across its vast wilds. Consider this 
chapter 
a compilation of a wide variety 
of assorted notes, 
research, 
and scattered publications of historians 
of the Library of the Cobalt Soul and the Alabas- 
await eager adventurers. 
of all kinds who explore Tal’ Dorei, from the vast 
fields of the Dividing Plains to the treacherous 
crags of Tal’Dorei’s 
many mountains, from the 
‘storm-wracked Lucidian Coast to the 
immemorial 
depths of the Rifenmist Jungle. Countless nomadic 
civilizations 
exist 
within these realms of magic and 
monsters, as do dozens of tiny villages, thriving 
towns, and bustling cities. The people of Tal'Dorei 
do what they 
c: 
hare the tales of 
treasures and adventure with any who will listen. 
Consider this gazetteer 
a compilation of tales and 
fragmented histories, passed down from bards and 
scholars. Your campaign can follow its descriptions 
to the letter, or 
diverge as wildly as you see fit. 
SETTLEMENTS 
Every permanent settlement 
in Tal'Dorei has a few 
basic statistics that impart a top-level impression of 
that place. This 
includes what type of settlement it 
is—typically a village, town, 
or city—its population, 
and its rough demographics. Don't fee! restricted by 
these demographics if you want your character to 
come from a specific location but you don't see their 
race listed there. People of all races can be found in 
just about every community in Tal'Dorei, and your 
character can come from anywhere. 
to survive, and 
CHAPTER 
3: TAL’DOREI GAZETTEER 
GAZETTEER 
ities and large towns often have a 
number of small rural communities outside their 
fortified walls and population center. The popula- 
tion numbers of these larger settlements include 
the people in the outlying areas. On the other hand, 
the official populations of a village or other small 
settlement just includes the people living in the 
village itself. 
In fact, though there are a few villages and small 
settlements listed in this gazetteer, Tal'Dorei 
is home 
to hundreds, if not thousands, of tiny settlements 
too small to detail or place on the map. The Game 
Master can make up any number of villages or 
other communities wherever they wish in Tal Dorei 
hout changing any of the 
lore presented in this 
gazetteer. 
And of cou: 
the GM can also cre- 
ate large settlements unique to their version of 
Tal'Dorei—the only difference is that they should 
be prepared to think about how their version of 
Tal Dorei is different, now that they've added another 
hub of population, trade, polities, and culture. 
STORY HOOKS 
This chapter contains a variety of story hooks that 
you can use asa starting point for Tal'Dorei adven- 
tures of your own creation. Chapter 5 of this book 
contains advice for expanding the: 
adventures, and even more advice for creating RPG 
stories can be found in the fifth edition core rules. 
These plot hooks are tied to specific locations, and 
all have a level range. 
These 
level 
recommendations 
strictly mandated, but have generally been cho- 
se of the monsters involved, because 
of the narrative weight of the location or characters 
involved, or to indicate how epic and world-affecting 
the adventure should be. 
For low-level characters: Ist to 4th level 
For mid-level characters: 5th to 10th level 
For high-level characters: 11th to 16th level 
For epic-level characters: 17th to 20th level 
Additionally, some plot hooks are marked as “any 
level.” These hooks present stories broad enough 
to suit characters of any level, anywhere in their 
party’s story. These hooks 
generally don't suggest 
specific monsters to use as villains. When creating 
adventures based off 
of these hooks, use the encoun- 
ter-building advice in the fifth edition core rules to 
choose appropriate foes for your players.

--- PAGE 67 ---
LUCIDIAN COAST 
_ The stormy Lucidian Ocean crashes furiously 
against the rocky coasts of eastern Tal'Dorei, chew- 
ing inlets into the coastline and spurring vast banks 
of impenetrable fog across the waters. Most ships 
rightly avoid the volatile northern waters, instead 
docking at southern ports like Stilben. Adventurous 
folk leave their seafaring vessels behind and brave 
the Mooren River Run to Drynna. Yet even there, the 
Lucidian Coast is not without its dangers; vicious 
wildlife stalks the wilderness, and flocks of harpies 
have harried the shores since time immemorial, 
drawing lost sailors to their doom upon the rocks. 
DRYNNA 
Town: Population 2,765 (75% humans, 8% gnomes, 
8% halflings, 4% elves, 5% other races) 
Along the shore of Mooren Lake rests the sleepy 
town of Drynna. The community thrives on the 
bountiful wildlife around the lake, and the Drynna 
fisherfolk are responsible for most of eastern 
Tal'Dorei’s 
freshwater fish supply. The social guid- 
ance of the city revolves around the Sunrise Lodge 
(or simply “the Lodge”), 
a membership of community 
leaders who meet to discuss and vote on 
important 
social and legal matters. The Lodge has also sent 
variety of increasingly frustrated petitions to the 
Tal'Dorei Council, since their community's small 
size means they have traditionally lacked a delegate 
Majority Faiths: Changebringer, 
Wildmother, 
Stormlord 
Minority Faith: 
awbearer, Strife Emperor, 
Scaled Tyrant 
Imports: Livestock, lumber 
Exports: 
Fish, 
ships, grain, iron, silver, 
gold, trad 
goods frm Wildemount 
of their own on the council. However, the recent 
surge in prospectors has increased their population 
enough for a member of the Lodge to attend council 
sessions, and the Lodge is doing everything it can to 
make sure the boom lasts as long as possible before 
it falls into bust. 
BOOMTOWN 
Drynna has a small militia to protect the town from 
wild beasts and roving monsters, and to capture 
horse thieves and other petty criminals. This militia 
is presently overwhelmed by hundreds of prospec- 
tors who have swept into town over the past three 
years after hearing rumors that chunks of whitestone 
have been found in Mooren Lake, washed down the 
river from the Alabaster Sierras. 
Given the high price of residuum (see page 
75), this new occurrence has made Drynna into 
something of 
a boomtown. Thousands of small 
homesteads now surround the town center, and bur- 
glary and banditry are both on the rise. 
DRYNNA ADVENTURES. 
Game Masters who set their adventure in Drynna 
can use these plot hooks for 
inspiration. 
Unfriendly Waters (mid-level). Recently, Drynna 
has suffered a number of losses, with prospectors 
and fisherfolk being attacked. Worse 
still, the supply 
of fish itself seems to be declining rapidly; 
with- 
out this local food staple, villages across eastern 
Tal'Dorei will certainly starve. The party hears the 
call for mercenaries reaching as far as Westruun 
and Stilben. The culprit is a hydra within the lake 
that has gained intelligence by living for so long in 
the residuum-infused waters. It has an Intelligence 
score of 12 (+1), can speak Common, and commands 
a tribe of lizardfolk. 
Bleak Inheritance (any level). Last year, 
Hareth 
Val Bardo, a younger member of the Sunrise Lodge, 
made a pact with the Moon Mistress (see “Mooren 
Lake,” below). Hareth’s elder brother, Pauvren, died 
in his sleep shortly thereafter, leaving the entire Val 
Bardo family fortune to Hareth, the only surviving 
heir, However, nightmares now haunt Hareth every 
night, and violent urges surge through his mind. The 
Lodge, having noticed Hareth’s paranoid eyes and 
twitchy hands, calls upon outsiders to investigate. 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 68 ---
K°TAWL SWAMP 
The sprawling swamplands of K’Tawl cover much 
of the southern Lucidian Coast, enveloping Stilben 
and the K’Taw! Bay. The saltwater swamp is thick 
with cypress and tupelo trees reaching up from 
muddy waters that range, in places, from one to ten 
feet deep—or more. The hot, muggy air and thick, 
sludge-covered landscape host all manner of terri- 
ble beasts, including venomous flying snakes and 
man-eating giant frogs. 
Bands of frog-headed humanoids harry the 
edges of Stilben from their deep-marsh encamp- 
ments, while a vicious school of sahuagin called the 
Ghormauth command the shoreline of K’Tawl. The 
bloodthirsty Ravagers use the forested edges of the 
swamp to ambush prey—as do countless bandits and 
petty thieves. As such, caravans and messengers 
must remain on constant alert for the possibility 
ofan ambush. With such dangers lurking in the 
swamp, travel to and from Stilben is rarely made 
without an armed escort. 
K’TAWL SWAMP ADVENTURES 
Game Masters who set their adventure in K’Tawl 
Swamp can use these plot hooks for inspiration. 
They Shamble (mid-level). People have been 
disappearing from the isolated swamp-burghs within 
the K’Tawl. The characters, perhaps en route to Stil- 
ben, spend the night in the village of Dunghill. After 
hearing tales of the disappearances, the characters 
awaken the next morning to screams—as a terrified 
human is carried off within the rotting orifice of 
a 
shambling mound of swamp vegetation. 
Monolith of the Hells (high-level). Why have 
members of the Torchraiser herd been found dead, 
their hearts exploded and their teeth plucked from 
their mouths? Why have the stagnant K’Tawl waters 
suddenly begun to flow toward the dismal center 
of the swamp? A divine messenger of the Everlight 
visits the characters, its celestial form torn and 
wavering, and dies before it can impart its request. 
On the angel's lips is a single dying phrase: “Destroy 
K’Tawl's Heart.” 
MOOREN LAKE 
North of the Summit Peaks is a shimmering lake 
fed by the snowmelt from the Alabaster Sierras by 
the Mooren River Run. Mooren Lake is surrounded 
both by bountiful wildlife and the frightful creatures 
attracted to such a thriving ecosystem, including rov- 
ing lizardfolk, flocks of harpies, and several hydras 
that lurk in the lake's depths. 
Centuries of whitestone runoff from the Alabas- 
ter Sierras have allowed deposits of residuum (see 
page 75) to collect at the bottom of the lake—and 
the residuum has formed into a thrumming organ 
CHAPTER 3: TALDOREI GAZETTEER 
of raw magical energy, beginning to gain sentience. 
‘The twin islands in the center of the lake are blan- 
keted by an ever-present mist, and fotk tales tell 
ofa beautiful, ageless woman, known only as the 
Moon Mistress, who watches over the island shores. 
It’s said that any mortal who seeks an audience is 
judged by her, and is either granted a favor, a boon of 
unveiled knowledge, or a swift and terrible end. 
MOOREN LAKE ADVENTURES 
Game Masters who set their adventure in Mooren 
Lake can use this plot hook for inspiration. 
Renew the Mists (mid-level). The Moon Mistress, 
night hag who takes the guise of 
a water nymph, 
uses the fading mists to shroud her location from a 
blood hunter named Perron Brill, a woman dedicated 
to hunting the Mistress down out of vengeance. The 
mists require a blasphemous mortal sacrifice to 
renew, and the Mistress is willing to reward those 
who would aid her in retrieving a victim—willing or 
otherwise. Perron Brill resides in nearby Drynna, 
and though she is no saint herself, more honorable 
characters may think it best to help the hunter find 
her prey in Rootgarden Marsh. 
ROOTGARDEN MARSH 
The shallows of Mooren Lake leak into the tender 
soil of the lakebed and spread eastward, creating 
the cold and desolate Rootgarden Marsh. Tall, thin 
trees lift five or more feet above the muck upon stilt: 
like roots, like freshwater mangroves. Their sparse 
placement gives them the appearance of a village 
of scattered huts. The fresh water mingles with salt 
here, leaving only adapted vegetation. The smell of 
moss and rot fills the air, while strange, feral crea- 
tures leap from tree to tree, or patiently wait from 
within their dome-like tree-root dens to snatch wary 
travelers. An organized group of gnoll marauders 
called the Moonsteeth keep their cavern hideout 
here, striking out at easy targets outside of Drynna 
and Mooren Lake. 
Since the region is populated almost entirely 
by monsters, most humanoids 
avoid it whenever 
possible. Those few who explore the deadly marsh 
do so only out of necessity, either because they need 
to unlock Rootgarden’s many secrets, or because 
“civilization” is even more dangerous to them than 
the primal dangers found within, 
ROOTGARDEN MARSH ADVENTURES 
Game Masters who set their adventure in Root- 
garden Marsh can use these plot hooks for 
inspiration. 
The Ley-Knot (mid-level). Without warn- 
ing, arcane magic stops functioning within a 
hundred-mile radius of Rootgarden Marsh. As 
panic spreads across northeastern Tal'Dorei, the

--- PAGE 69 ---
68 
characters or a patron of theirs discover that a major 
ley line, the source of arcane power in this part of 
the world, has been twisted and tied into a knot at 
the center of the marsh. This knot has been tied by 
High Moonspeaker Luneskon of the Moonsteeth 
gnolls, Her ambitions are small, but whatever 
method she used to tangle the ley lines must be 
erased from history—knowledge of its existence 
could bring disaster to all of Tal Dorei. 
Death's Garden (any level). Rootgarden’s strange 
ecology has produced many distinctive and powerful 
forms of plant life. During the course of 
a campaign, 
a group of adventurers may need to create a unique 
potion requiring the essence of manawort, a sen- 
tient mushroom found only within Rootgarden. The 
manawort mushroom is fearful of being harvested, 
and has made close friends with a black dragon 
named Thardraxxus, who keeps the mushroom and 
its sporelings safe. This dragon can be of any age, 
depending on what level the characters are. 
STILBEN 
Large Town: Population 10,660 (67% humans, 
11% elves, 11% halflings, 5% half-elves, 6% 
other races) 
Stilben stinks to high heaven. Most sailors who 
pass through it—be they honest traders of the Clovis 
Concord in Wildemount or pirates seeking their 
next conquest—call this dismal burgh the Rotted 
Lot. The stink and the crime that run through this, 
town make the name an apt one, but things aren't 
all bad in Stilben, The largest port on this 
coast of 
Tal'Dorei, Stilben is the focal point of international 
trade with Wildemount. Even though Stilben's 
permanent population is a scant ten thousand, its 
‘more transient population of sailors who stay for 
a few days or weeks at a time is just as large, and 
fully triples Stilben’s total population in the sum- 
‘mer months. 
Predictably, the vast majority of Stilben's business 
caters to folk who won't stay for long. There are 
brothels aplenty, at least one inn and one tavern 
each on every street, and countless other com- 
forts for the weary traveler. The town is nestled 
in the sticky depths of the K’Tawl Swamp, and its 
putrescent stink mingles with the humidity and the 
ever-present buzz of insects to produce an air of 
misery around Stilben’s outer districts. Pushed out 
of Stilben’s cozy, cosmopolitan heart, its poor and 
disenfranchised citizens—derisively called muck- 
dwellers by the town's bigshots—struggle to eke out 
a living in the K’Tawl’s murky waters. 
Central Stilben houses most of its businesses, 
residences, and attractions. Those living in Stilben’s 
heart like to present a clean, “civilized” view of their 
town, maintaining it asa thriving commercial hub. 
The cross-continental Silvercut Roadway leads from 
Stilben all the way to Emon, and its robust trade of 
rare goods, textiles, and spices has given rise toa 
formidable merchant ruling class. Though the aging 
Margrave Wendle Truss is Stilben's ruler in name, it 
is the guilds that hold true power: Their vast wealth 
and sizeable “protection” force have impelled the 
bombastic-yet-ineffectual margrave to acquiesce to 
the guilds’ will in order to maintain peace, as well as 
to preserve his own station within the city. 
Order is kept by the Waterwatch, Stilben’s official 
constabulary, but corruption is common within their 
ranks. The past few decades have been hard for the 
Clasp in Stilben. Though the local Spireling has 
kept a tight grip on the margrave and the Water- 
watch, the Myriad has used bribes, intimidation, 
and every dirty trick in the book to winnow away 
the Clasp’s power. Now, Stilben is little more than 
a crucible for the power struggle between the two 
criminal organizations. 
ORIGINS OF Vox MACHINA 
The 
citizens of Stilben do not know that some 
of Exandria’s greatest heroes, Vox Machina, first 
met in their humble city and went on their first 
adventure in the muck of the K"Taw! Swamp. Back 
then, even the exalted Vox Machina were just 
‘two-copper adventurers, quickly forgotten by 
Stilben’s haughty elite. One dwarf named Heinrich 
Runescribe, a junior member 
of the Alabaster 
Lyceum's revered Lorekeeper Society, practically 
worships the heroes that defeated the Chroma 
Conclave, and has made it his mission to record all 
of their travels. He has found a wealth of evidence 
that the heroes of Vox Machina first gathered in 
Stilben under inauspicious circumstances and 
were dragged into an unexpected battle against 
the Myriad. 
STILBEN ADVENTURES 
Game Masters who set their adventure in Stilben 
can use these plot hooks for inspiration 
Lost Below (low-level). A Stilben guild known 
as the Relic Seekers partnered with the Clasp to 
smuggle a hoard of stolen Syngornian artifacts 
through the heart of the K’Tawl Swamp to the port 
of Stilben. The smugglers were last seen by a Clasp 
agent watching a bridge in the western swamp, but 
two weeks have passed since their last contact. 
They should have arrived by now. The characters 
are approached by one of several groups: an agent of 
the Relic Seekers in search of the relics, one of the 
Clasp seeking to find their smugglers, or a Myriad 
taskmaster who seeks to undermine the Clasp. 
Their first contact: the bridge guard, a hulking 
tiefling Clasp enforcer (see page 232) named 
LArkhelle. 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 70 ---
Ashari Agitator (mid-level). Gang warfare 
between the Clasp and the Myriad has been a daily 
affair in Stilben for the past thirty years, but some- 
thing is changing. A cruel Ashari waverider (see 
page 228) named Galessi has joined the Myriad 
and is using her elemental magic to turn the tide of 
this gang war. The Clasp, the Waterwatch, and even 
the Air Ashari of Zephrah want to see Galessi laid 
low, but she has a secret base within the swamp, 
protected by a charmed giant crocodile and putrid 
water elementals. 
Demonbiood Vengeance (high-level). A marilith 
demon using the guise of a blonde human named 
Iselda has been lurking on the outskirts of Stil 
ben since her defeat at the hands of Vox Machina 
decades ago. Her demonic ichor has spawned a 
brood of demonfeed spiders (see page 236) that 
now view her as their mother. Iselda, sensing an 
opportunity, dedicated herself 
to the Spider Queen 
and attracted a small legion of dark elf fanatics to 
her side. Aided by all these evil creatures, she plans 
‘on conquering Stilben, not for the Myriad, but for 
herself and her evil god. 
LEGEND 
The Gud by 
carts Lighthouse 
The Suniel Stride Tecern 
See 
| 5 
TALDOREI GAZETTEER 
CHAPTER 
3 
SUMMIT PEAKS 
The Summit Peaks loom over the southeastern 
plains of Tal’Dorei, like great spires of rock reaching 
for the sky. The tall, thin mountains burst so aggres- 
sively from the surrounding fields and swampland 
that even travelers from distant lands recognize 
them as a landmark of eastern Tal'Dorei. They are a 
welcome sight for any ship's crew making their way 
to shore. The mountain valleys recess into marshy 
gorges that house all manner of creatures migrat- 
ing from the K’Tawl. Reclusive hill giants and stone 
ints also make their homes in the marshy valleys. 
As the mountains rise higher, strong winds blow 
across the battered rock, leaving strangely smooth 
peaks that harbor griffon lairs, harpy dens, and con- 
vocations of giant eagles hunting the lower lands, 
ZEPHRAH 
Small Town: Population 1,310 (62% half-elves, 12% 
elemental ancestry, 10% humans, 9% halflings, 
5% 
tieflings, 2% other races) 
High atop a mountain aerie within the Summit 
Peaks sits Zephrah, the tribal home of the Air Ashari

--- PAGE 72 ---
people, keeping vigil over a gate into the Elemental 
Plane of Air. The Ashari people worship and live by 
the balance of the natural world, and the people of 
Zephrah have adapted to life among the clouds. Most 
of the tribe consists of skilled hunters and climbers. 
who hunt mountain goats, large birds, and other 
cliff-dwelling creatures, along with subsisting on 
high-elevation vegetation. Utilizing the proximity of 
powerful elemental magic, the druidic masters of the 
Air Ashari craft skysails 
(see page 199) to ride the 
ever-present winds, allowing their people to traverse 
the sheer cliffs of the mountains. The leader of Zeph- 
rah is called the Voice of the Tempest; they oversee 
all travel through the rift, all major druidic rituals, 
and any visiting outsiders. 
‘Though it’s still a small settlement, Zephrah has 
grown greatly in the past several years. Many people 
with an innate connection to the element of air have 
petitioned the current Voice of the Tempest for her 
permission to 
live here among the Ashari. Likewise, 
a number of druids and other spellcasters who wish, 
to learn the ways of the 
Ashari have come to live 
in relative isolation here—after they have proven 
their good intentions and respect for the sanctity of 
the skies. 
DIPLOMACY AND DEVELOPMENTS, 
Zephrah has grown in more than just population. 
The close friendship shared between Keyleth, Voice 
of the Tempest, and the genius inventor Percival de 
Rolo of Whitestone has led toa number of modern 
technologies being adopted in Zephrah. Windmills 
now dot the cliffsides, milling grain purchased from 
farms on the Dividing Plains. Keyleth continues to 
work with Percival to improve the lives of her people 
through technology and innovation. The operation of 
two of these mills is also kept private from the rest of 
Zephrah, and they're used to refine whitestone into 
residuum for the construction of magic items to arm 
the Ashari skydancers (see page 228). 
Keyleth’s confident leadership has also guided her 
to make further diplomatic ties between her people 
and the rest of Tal'Dorei. These attempts at breaking 
down the traditional isolationism of the Ashari have 
been met with skepticism from within, slowing the 
process to a crawl. Allowing any outsiders into Zeph- 
rah at all has been seen as a huge step. Beyond th 
Keyleth has pushed for greater economic and politi- 
cal involvement, so that the needs of Zephrah can be 
heard in the Tal’Dorei Council. Resistance toward 
political integration has mostly been internal within 
the Ashari, but Keyleth considers any progress at all 
a good start. 
AL'DOREI GAZETTEER 
CHAPTER 
DEFENSE 
Zephrah has never maintained a formal army, 
though past Voices of the Tempest have trained mar- 
tial forces and druidic warriors to defend their home 
against the monsters of the Summit Peaks. As Key- 
leth attempts to build bonds between her people and 
the rest of Tal'Dorei, she has expanded the training 
of new skydancers and created a unit of druidie war- 
riors capable of responding to any emergency across 
Tal’Dorei. If a threat like the Chroma Conclave were 
to rise again in Tal'Dorei, the skydancers of Zephrah 
would be there to help save the nation’s people. 
‘Thanks to Zephrah’s mountainous terrain, the 
Ashari enclave has never fallen under siege. Because 
of the dangerous beasts that lurk in the mountains, 
most Zephran adults have learned how to wield a 
spear or a staff 
to defend themselves. Roughly one 
in ten people have undergone a small amount of ele- 
mental training—enough to be able to cast the gust 
of 
wind spell a number 
of times per day equal to their 
Wisdom modifier (minimum of once). 
Were Zephrah to fall under attack, the skydancers 
would defend the town and its elemental rift for as 
long as possible while the rest of its people evactu- 
ated to hidden retreats in the mountain caves. 
ZEPHRAH ADVENTURES 
Game Masters who set their adventure in Zephrah 
can use these plot hooks for inspiration. 
Poached Eggs (low-level). The local Ashari have 
noticed a terrible trend of poachers climbing the 
peaks to steal entire griffon nests full of eggs, leav- 
ing the parents slain. The efficiency, brutality, and 
growing rate of these attacks suggest the hunters are 
dangerous professionals, and the Ashari are seeking 
aid in finding and punishing those responsible 
before the locally endangered creatures are all dead 
or taken. The culprits, human poachers (use scout 
statistics) led by a quasit demon named Ryzzix, are 
fencing the stolen eggs on the 
Stilben black market. 
A Welcome Overstayed (mid-level). Shaktia, an 
overbearing djinni soldier from the Plane of Air, has 
recently discovered and come through the elemen- 
tal rift 
into Zephrah. However, the djinni refuses to 
leave, instead choosing to bother the people with 
pranks, debates, and invitations to become his well- 
paid servants. The Voice of the Tempest, at the end 
of her patience, seeks adventurers to capture Shaktia 
and return him through the rift to the Elemental 
Plane of Air. However, when the adventurers learn 
what caused the djinni to leave his home plane in the 
first place, they may find it hard to force him to leave. 
7

--- PAGE 73 ---
§ 
/ WANES TONES, 
fi 
ALABASTER SIERRAS 
In the northeastern reaches 
of the continent, where 
the waters of the Lucidian Ocean break between 
the rocky shores of Tal'Dorei, a lush treeline fills 
the valleys between the chalk-white bluffs of the 
Alabaster Sierras. This gelid northern territory has 
for decades been beyond the reach of the Tal'Dorei 
Council, and fallen under the rule of the Chamber 
‘of Whitestone. However, over twenty years ago, 
thousands of Emonian refugees fled to Whitestone 
to ride out the devastation of the Chroma Conclave. 
These refugees included the bereaved family of the 
Last Sovereign. Since those dark days, the Chamber 
of Whitestone has enjoyed a close relationship with 
the Tal’Dorei Council. Lady Vex‘ahlia de Rolo, a 
member of the Chamber of Whitestone, also 
sits on 
the Tal’Dorei Council itself, further strengthening 
the bonds of unity between this once-isolated land 
and the rest of the realm. 
Beyond Whitestone, the region's vibrant-yet-gothic 
urban center, the Alabaster Sierras are framed by 
dangerously 
windy shoreside cliffs and dry, desolate 
mountains swarming with harpies, cold-adapted 
wyverns, and other hungry monstrosities. Beneath 
the peaks, the valley opens into the thickly wooded 
Majority Faiths: Dawnfather 
Minority Faiths: Wildmothe 
Chained Oblivion 
Imports: Industrial and precious metals, cloth, 
livestock, grain 
Exports: Gri 
, limestone, whitestone. 
Matron of Ravens, 
% 
pine forest known as the Parchwood. This dense, 
temperate rainforest 
is beautiful and lush, but many 
shadowed threats loom in the dark of the wood. 
The northern center of the valley marks a single 
clearing, where the humble city of Whitestone stands 
as the source of rule and law in this land. The people 
here have been hardened through strife and exalted 
through freedom, enough to know honor and appre- 
ciate loyalty like few other civilizations 
do. 
MOOREN RIVER RUN 
While many smaller streams and rivers run through 
the Parchwood Timberland, gathering rain and 
snow runoff from the nearby mountains, they nearly 
ail empty into the massive Mooren River Run. A 
powerful river that tears through the heavy forests 
TING: REBORN

--- PAGE 74 ---
of the Alabaster Sierras, the Mooren River Run 
flows fiercely southward, out of the woods and into 
Mooren Lake, near the Lucidian Coast. Freshwater 
fish are in ready supply along the river's path, and 
Whitestone maintains a well-guarded dock for their 
fishermen to feed their people. 
The small town surrounding the dock is simply 
called Mooren, and seasonally is home to some five 
thousand people of various ancestries in the spring 
and summer, When conditions grow too cold, mages 
from Whitestone are called to place arcane locks 
upon all establishments and to place the empty town 
in lockdown until next season. 
Due to the plentiful nature of the river, many den- 
izens of the Parchwood wander its banks to reap its 
bounty, or to seek bounty from those who frequent it. 
MOOREN RIVER RUN ADVENTURES 
Game Masters who set their adventure in Mooren 
River Run can use these plot hooks for inspiration. 
Bear of the White River (low-level). While 
traveling near Whitestone or through the Parch- 
wood Timberland, the characters find the corpse 
of half-ore forester; a successful DC 10 Intelligence 
(Nature) check reveals that he was savaged by a 
large bear. This half-orc’s forester clothing marks 
her asa cleric of the Stormlord and a member 
of the 
Rivermaw herd, a long way from the Dividing Plains. 
Investigating the scene shows that bear tracks in the 
mud lead westward, toward the Mooren River Run. 
These tracks, when followed, soon fade into the bare 
footprints of a humanoid—the killer was a werebear, 
but who could it be? 
Off-Season Suspicion (mid-level). The cold 
nights of autumn and winter force even the most 
stalwart fisherfolk away from Mooren. Some Mooren 
residents who have returned to Whitestone for the 
off-season have seen lights in the abandoned town, 
and are spreading rumors that some of the mages 
contracted to “lock up” after everyone has left town 
are actually agents of the Myriad. The truth is that 
these mages are mercenaries hired by the League 
of Miracles to secretly conduct experiments on cold 
snap spirits (see page 234) to transform them into 
loyal elemental warriors. 
PARCHWOOD TIMBERLANDS 
Dark, dense, and often assailed by snow and cold 
winds, the Parchwood Timberlands consume most 
of the valleys within the Alabaster Sierras with pine 
trees and heavily overgrown pathways. The grim 
and forbidding interior of the Parchwood is home to 
many grim inhabitants, from the spectral remains of 
unlucky travelers past fo wandering 
blights spawned 
by corrupt trees that consume the life 
around them. 
Howls can be heard in the darkest of nights, giving 
rumor to werewolf hunting parties that stalk the 
<A SLOTES Sao) Ta 
esau 
CHAPTER 3: TAL’DOREI GAZETTEER 
wood. A handful of nearby farmers swear they've 
encountered a community of territorial centaurs in 
the southern region of the Parchwood, though such 
tales are largely met with derision. It's common 
knowledge that if you intend to travel through the 
thick fog of the Parchwood Timberlands, you stick 
to the roads, you bring some muscle, and you pray to 
whatever gods bring you comfort. 
PARCHWOOD TIMBERLANDS 
ADVENTUR! 
Game Masters who set their adventure in the Parch- 
wood Timberlands can use these plot hooks for 
inspiration. 
Headless Horse-Man (mid-level). The centaurs 
of the Parchwood are no myth, and many are suc- 
cumbing to a curse of undeath. One among them, a 
headless stallion-lord named Ichabarr, now leads the 
Herd of the Damned across the valleys of the Parch- 
wood. Several small settlements outside Whitestone 
have told the Chamber that these skeletal monsters 
have been spiriting away eligible young bachelors, 
and soon no men will be left in the Timberlands. 
These marauders are centaur skeletons (see 
page 255). Their leader Ichabarr uses the same 
statistics, and can also use the optional Ethereal 
Stride feature. 
They Seek Only Rest (high-level). Those who 
travel the Parchwood sometimes hear thunder roll 
through the valley, accompanied by the cracking of 
timbers, but no storm follows. Over twenty years 
ago, the Briarwoods slaughtered and reanimated an 
entire 
clan of giants native to the Parchwood. Some 
of these zombie giants survived the fall of the Briar- 
woods. Most of these giants have been destroyed by 
the Grey Hunters, but a few still remain. However, 
their mindless actions are not without purpose: each 
giant is tormented by being denied the halls of their 
ancestors, and quietly weeps for their lost afterlife as 
they roam. 
Zombie giants can be represented by changing any 
giant's type to undead, decreasing its AC to 8, giving 
it resistance to bludgeoning damage from nonmagi- 
cal attacks, and giving it immunity to poison damage 
and the poisoned condition. This does not affect its 
challenge rating. 
SALTED BLUFFS 
The tumultuous waters of the Lucidian Ocean that 
‘encompass the northeast edge of Tal’Dorei end at 
the towering seaside cliffs called the Salted Bluffs. 
These cliffs mark the coastal boundary of the Ala- 
baster Sierras and are home to seemingly infinite 
cliffside caverns that overlook the ocean, sometimes 
hundreds of feet up. The waters along the base are 
rocky and dangerous to traverse by boat, and only. 
the most skilled of captains even consider sailing 
73

--- PAGE 75 ---
through these treacherous waters. These factors 
make the Salted Bluffs an ideal hideaway for pirates, 
who have taken to these bluffs to 
hide away their 
riches or build a base of operations. 
However, these outlaws must also deal with the 
colonies of harpies native to the region. They can 
never be too sure if a cave they're holing up in for 
the evening is abandoned—or if t's home to a beast 
of alluring song and shredding talons. Even empty 
‘caves house the remains of these harpies’ brutal 
kills, for they sweep up unsuspecting creatures and 
dash them against the cliffs and rocks, recovering 
the broken corpses to feed upon safely. 
SALTED BLUFFS ADVENTURES 
Game Masters who set their adventure on the Salted 
Bluffs can use these plot hooks for inspiration. 
Crow’s Nest (low-level), The Ashwing harpy tribe 
that roost among the Salted Bluffs have recently 
commandeered the galley owned by the group of 
penitent corsairs and started raiding coastal villages. 
They are led by Captain Silvercomb, an arrogant, 
dashing, and well-spoken harpy grandmother. The 
other harpies are just pillaging for fun, but Silver- 
comb seems to be searching for something, and she 
always wears a pendant with a black feather around 
her neck. What could it be? 
Start Believing in Ghost Stories (low-level). 
Pirates are one thing. Undead pirates are another. 
A group of swashbucklers have willingly turned 
themselves in to the Chamber of Whitestone, beg- 
ging for absolution from the Dawnfather for their 
crimes. They refuse to return to the cove where they 
kept their stolen treasure since it’s guarded by the 
zombies and skeletons of their risen comrades—as 
well as the wight that killed them. Perhaps a group 
of adventurers can save the day? 
SHEARING CHANNEL 
Long ago, a land bridge once connected the land- 
masses of Tal’Dorei and Wildemount. However, the 
catastrophic forces of the Calamity blasted it apart, 
leaving in its place a deathly strait of jagged rock and 
gale-force winds. Numerous ships have been ruined 
against the tides of the channel, and sea creatures 
that thrive on wreckage have taken up residence 
“Amidst fluted white bones, serenaded 
by siren’s call. 
Twas there did I bury my treasures, one and all. 
But deafand blind must the finder be, 
Lest 
a briny death be that which ye truly see! 
beneath the waters. It’s said that no honest sailor 
knows a safe passage through the channel, but 
rumors abound of hidden coves and unknown routes 
that the Revelry pirates of Wildemount’s Menagerie 
Coast use to safely traverse these deadly waters. 
SHEARING CHANNEL ADVENTURES 
Game Masters who set their adventure in the 
Shearing Channel can use this plot hook for 
inspiration. 
Scion of Oblivion (epic-level). The Chained Obli 
ion has no physical form, but some residue of its 
power was cast into the ocean when the Dawnfather 
pursued it from the Alabaster Sierras to Gatshadow. 
This seed of evil has had eons to gestate undisturbed 
in the tempestuous channel—and now it rises. A 
kraken, mutated by the Oblivion’s aberrant power, 
explodes from the water. Its mere presence causes 
the flesh and minds of sailors to fuse to their ships, 
sea creatures to hideously mutate into humanoid 
abominations, and the clouds above to rain thick, 
ichorous black droplets. A storm now lingers perma- 
nently over the Shearing Channel, and forces from 
Whitestone and the Menagerie Coast of western 
Wildemount relay frantic messages, seeking to some- 
how halt this evil. It seems to be building an army 
here for some larger attack. What is it planning? 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 76 ---
WHITESTONE 
Small City: Population 17,710 (78% humans, 7% hal- 
flings, 6% dwarves, 4% tieflings, 5% other races) 
Over two hundred years ago, the de Rolo family 
helmed an expedition from Wildemount to the shores 
of Tal'Dorei. When their vessel wrecked upon the 
stones of the Shearing Channel, the de Rolos and 
their remaining crew survived for weeks in the Ala- 
baster Sierras, despite the tempestuous weather and 
slavering beasts. After 
a 
time, the survivors found 
a clearing containing a single tree that glowed with 
the radiance of the sun itself. They called it the Sun 
Tree—a literal blessing of the Dawnfather himself— 
and built their home around it. 
Since then, the de Rolos' pioneering settlement 
has grown into a robust, if isolated, city. The sights 
of the city range from the gothic majesty of Castle 
Whitestone to the radiant glory of the Sun Tree, 
and from the quaint townhouses of the city center 
to the humble homesteads of its outlying townships. 
Because Whitestone is limited in fertile farmland, 
locally grown produce is scarce, leading to the neces- 
sity to develop a good trade relationship with the 
rural communities of the Turst Fields. 
‘Though the region’s scarcity of vital resources 
made for a harrowing first few years, the de Rolo 
family stumbled upon a miraculous mineral they 
called whitestone. This geological marvel both gave 
their city 
its name and quickly became its most 
important and most sought-after export. Before long, 
the de Rolos’ sale of 
whitestone allowed them to 
quickly amass a significant fortune and construct a 
princely keep within their 
cit 
‘The city 
is constantly improved (and unsettled) 
by the brilliant tinkering of Percival de Rolo. His 
greatest creation, the Heart of 
Whitestone, overlooks 
the city. Most prominent these days, however, is a 
rudimentary electric 
light grid. Using acid pits 
in the 
relatively unexplored caverns beneath the city as a 
sort of battery, six dozen electric lamps throughout 
the city are given just enough power to gently illumi- 
nate the streets, the watch posts on the castle, and 
the city walls with a soft, greenish glow all through 
the night. 
SCARS OF THE BRIARWOODS 
Lady Delilah and Lord Sylas Briarwood, former cult 
leaders of the Whispered One, were ousted from 
Whitestone over twenty years ago. Though they are 
no more, the evil they committed still lingers. The 
nearly six years they ruled Whitestone sapped life 
and hope from its people. Though homes have been 
rebuilt and the Briarwoods’ undead monstrosities 
have been eradicated, the trauma of the vampires’ 
reign of terror will linger for generations. Some peo: 
ple of Whitestone were so deeply affected that they 
AL’DOREI GAZETTEER 
CHAPTER 
turned to necromancy 
and vampirism themselves, 
and have fled into the Alabaster Sierras to learn 
the secrets of the Briarwoods’ foul magic—and to 
‘emulate their takeover of Whitestone. The enigmatic 
Grey Hunters, the secretive elite warriors of the 
Chamber 
of Whitestone, have worked tirelessly to 
pull out the Remnants by their roots, but perma- 
nently eliminating them seems an impossible task. 
AN ENCHANTING EXPORT 
One of the climactic battles of the Calamity was 
aclash between the stalwart Dawnfather and 
the engine of callous destruction known as the 
Chained Oblivion. This battle came to a dramatic 
and explosive conclusion in the Alabaster Sierras. 
The unstable arcane forces unleashed in their battle 
created the valley that now houses the Parchwood, 
thrusting the surrounding mountains upward and 
infusing them with incredible amounts of residuum— 
the physical residue of arcane energy. 
The sheer amount of leftover arcane power within 
the whitestone of the mountains is incredibly recep- 
tive to enchantment. Magic items that incorporate 
at least an ounce of whitestone into their construc- 
tion require only one-quarter the creation time of 
other magic items. Some alchemists in Emon have 
discovered that dissolving whitestone with specific 
acids can leave behind pure residuum, which can 
substitute for expensive spell components when such 
materials are not readily available. 
Ifa spell has a component cost that consumes the 
component, its caster can substitute the required 
component for an amount of residuum of 
an equal 
value. One pound of pure residuum is worth approx- 
imately 500 gp in most markets, though it becomes 
extremely expensive and difficult to find outside of 
Emon or the city of Whitestone itself. 
Residuum can also be heated and blown into glass, 
forming a shimmering, greenish surface. Residuum 
slates or orbs can be used in stationary enchant- 
ing tables. Archmages willing to pay exorbitant 
rates—easily 20,000 gp or more—may acquire an 
enchanting slate that can be used to expedite the 
creation of all magic items. Using such a table allows 
anyone crafting a magic 
item to do so in one-quarter 
of the usual time. 
GOVERNMENT 
For many years, the de Rolo family ruled Whitestone 
with dignity and justice. Their noble rule was broken 
by Delilah Briarwood, an exiled necromancer of 
the Cerberus Assembly from Wildemount, and her 
vampire husband, Sylas. Together, they slaughtered 
the family, took over Whitestone, and plunged the 
city into despair. 
Nearly 
75

--- PAGE 77 ---
discovered that his sister Cassandra also still lived. 
The heroes defeated the Briarwoods and expunged 
Grey Hunters. An clite force called the Grey 
Hunters makes up the most secret of Whitestone’s 
their 
evil from 
Whitestone, and the de Rolo 
Trained in the arts of hand-to-hand 
founded a new system of governance: the Chamber 
‘of Whitestone. 
This council consists of members appointed by 
the Guardian of Woven Stone, who is to remain a 
member of the de Rolo bloodline as long as it exists, 
or until the rest of the Chamber unanimously agrees 
there are no suitable de Rolos to accept the position. 
DEFENSE 
Whitestone's first line of defense is made up of the 
obelisk wards. Hastily constructed during the time 
of the Chroma Conclave to avoid detection by their 
roving wyvern armies, five whitestone obelisks mark 
the perimeter 
of the city and castle grounds. These 
obelisks form a dome of illusory magic when pow- 
ered by an arcane spelleaster, hiding the city under 
the guise of continued, undeveloped Parchwood, and 
shielding everything within from arcane detection. 
The obelisks haven't been used since the attack of 
the Chroma Conclave and are beginning to be cov- 
ered by graffiti and overgrowth. 
For each spell slot that is syphoned into an 
obelisk, two hours of illusion is powered per spell 
level sacrificed, and the cover 
of the illusion barrier 
is incomplete unless 
all five obelisks are powered 
simultaneously. This siphoning is a taxing expe- 
rience, and for every 30 spell levels sacrificed 
within a 24-hour period, the caster gains 1 level of 
exhaustion. 
In addition to this rarely used magical ward, three 
groups of defensive personnel protect Whitestone 
from both within and without. 
Pale Guard. The people of Whitestone rely upon 
the Pale Guard to resolve any (admittedly rare) 
crimes and disturbances of the peace. The Pale 
Guard are a force of sentinels who answer to the 
Pale Lord of Wardship. Since criminal activity is 
fairly low these days, most of the Pale Guard are 
given other civic tasks to help Whitestone’s people. 
These tasks range from helping newcomers navi 
gate the city streets to escorting visiting dignitaries 
to diplomatic functions. While performing a duty that 
requires 
it, members of the Pale Guard are permitted 
to carry simple, three-barrel pepperbox revolvers. 
Whitestone Rifle Corps. The defense of the city 
from outside invaders and threats from the darkened 
boughs of the Parchwood Timberlands is attended 
to by the Whitestone Rifle Corps, who are trained in 
the deadly long-range rifles created by Percival de 
Rolo. They are only permitted to wield the weapons 
while patrolling the city walls or castle battlements— 
except in times of emergency, or when granted 
special permission by the Chamber of Whitestone. 
combat, marksmanship, espionage, and etiquette, 
the Hunters have a reach that extends across all 
Tal'Dorei, but they exist only as a rumor in the eyes 
of the public—and they answer only to the Grand 
Mistress of the Grey Hunt. 
The firearms wielded by members of the Grey 
Hunters are custom-made and named by their owner. 
Their rifles’ stocks are made of Parchwood inlaid 
with whitestone and enchanted against wear with 
residuum. The lock mechanism bears the White- 
stone crest. Hunters are trained to meticulously 
care for their weapons, and many learn enough 
to make personal modifications, or even build 
‘one from scratch. A Hunter must never lose thei 
weapon. If they cannot prove it was destroyed, they 
aren't permitted to return to Whitestone until it i 
recovered—although they may request help from 
other Hunters in retrieving it. If they come across a 
weapon of Whitestone in the wrong hands, they are 
honor-bound to return it to the city. 
This covert organization is headquartered in the 
ruins of a failed city expansion deep beneath the 
eastern Parchwood. This base is used for training, 
for weapon storage, and as a repository for their mis- 
sion logs, so that a complete record of every Hunter 
and their weapons can forever be kept. As with many 
of his inventions, Percival de Rolo fears that the 
Hunters are a powerful—and even necessary—tool 
in the hands of the righteous, but a terrible weapon, 
should they be perverted to suit evi 
CRIME 
The community of Whitestone has endured much 
hardship, from its shipwrecked beginnings to the 
bloody reign of the Briarwoods. Its hardy people 
are generally more concerned with personal duty, 
small comforts, and the creation of new art and 
technologies than with the pursuit of easy profit. The 
Myriad has tried several times to gain a foothold in 
Whitestone, but they've been foiled time and again by 
the consistent counterespionage efforts of the Grey 
Hunters. Nevertheless, they continue to try, and their 
presence has inspired petty theft throughout the city. 
The altruistic Lord Percival and Lady Vex’ah- 
lia of Whitestone prefer to address crime at the 
source—poverty and suffering—rather than punish- 
ing criminals. Likewise, most petty criminals are 
seen in Whitestone as worthy of rehabilitation, not 
punishment. 
GEOGRAPHY 
Whitestone was originally constructed around the 
newly discovered Sun Tree, and has slowly expanded 
‘outward ever since. Castle Whitestone was built atop 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 78 ---
a small hill overlooking the city to the north. Over 
the years, farmers and homesteaders have cleared 
more and more of the Parchwood to the south of 
the city. Even today, as Whitestone’s population has 
swelled, the Parchwood remains defiant, dark, and 
threatening. Itis in little danger of being overrun by 
mortals, and its eerie creatures strike back whenever 
the people of Whitestone press against it too greed- 
ily. The Grey Hunt was formed to keep the deadly 
denizens of the woods at bay, though now their pur- 
view reaches farther than just the Parchwood 
Dawnfather Square is the central district of 
Whitestone. The square surrounds a small hill, 
and the golden glow of the revered Sun Tree that 
sits atop it can be seen throughout the city. Many of 
Whitestone’s original settlers already worshiped the 
Dawnfather, and the discovery of the Sun Tree was 
seen asa sign. Today, Dawnfather Square is filled 
with quaint, bustling shops and small townhomes. 
POINTS OF INTEREST 
The City of Whitestone has a number of famous land- 
marks. They are keyed to the map of Whitestone. 
1. Castle Whitestone. This gothic fortress was 
erected not long after the city’s founding, and has 
long been the seat of power for the sovereign de Rolo 
family, Percival and Cassandra de Rolo have opted 
to end their absolute power over the city by sharing 
CHAPTER 3: TAL’DOREI GAZETTEER 
it with the Chamber of Whitestone—on which they 
each hold a seat. 
The castle's interior has a certain stark regality 
to it. While the hunting trophies and tapestries that 
decorate its walls are clear signs of the de Rolos’ 
ancestral wealth, there is a solemn, beautiful hol- 
lowness to its 
corridors. Cassandra de Rolo says 
that something of her brother's melancholy seeped 
into its whitestone walls, and the castle will always 
carry the weight of his sorrow—and of the Briar- 
woods’ evil. 
The castle itself 
is generally off-limits to the public, 
but its grounds are more accessible. The Whitestone 
Rifle Corps train ina firing yard behind the castle, 
and many people of the town flock to watch—only 
to be politely rebuffed by the Pale Guard. Open to 
all, however, are the gardens—except for Percival 
de Rolo’s latest project, the Widow’s Garden. This 
walled garden was named for Lady Melanie de Rolo, 
who originally cultivated its deadly blooms to slowly 
murder her husband. The Widow's Garden used to 
be a macabre menagerie of poisonous plants from 
across Wildemount. It fell fallow during the reign of 
the Briarwoods, but Percival has resurrected it with 
Keyleth's horticultural aid. 
2. The Sun Tree, After the Chained Oblivion 
nearly consumed the Knowing Mistress during the 
Calamity, a furious and vengeful Dawnfather pur- 
sued the fleeing Oblivion across the mountaintops

--- PAGE 79 ---
and over the sea, to the peak of Gatshadow, where 
the mad god was eventually defeated and impris- 
‘oned once again. The land wept with pain as the two 
wrathful gods laid waste to Tal'Dorei. 
Afier his 
victory, the Dawnfather returned to 
Whitestone and placed a single seed into the ground 
where the Knowing Mentor was nearly destroyed. 
The god wept, and from the seed grew a symbol of 
protection—a tree with radiant orange foliage and a 
golden glow that surrounds it when in bloom. The 
Sun Tree became a beacon of light within the dark 
forest that enclosed it. 
While the extent of the tree's 
divine power remains a mystery, it 
stands as an 
emblem of unity and hope, both within the city of 
Whitestone, and upon its official crest. 
3. Temples and the Greyfield. A patch of land 
outside the eastern wall of the city sees generations 
of Whitestone’s dead interred within a graveyard 
known as the Greyfield. Custody of this cemetery is 
shared by the Temple of the Dawn and the Altar of 
the Raven, sanctuaries maintained by the clergy of 
the Dawnfather and the Matron of Ravens, respec- 
tively. Since most people in Whitestone consider 
the Dawnfather their patron deity, the Temple of the 
Dawn is the largest of these shrines. The smaller 
Altar 
of the Raven is right next door, and most well- 
to-do devotees of the Dawnfather look upon the dour, 
dark-robed clerics of the Matron of Ravens with a 
mixture of awe and unease. 
The temples’ grounds also house a number 
of 
mausoleums containing 
the remains of long-forgot- 
ten noble families, though the last generation of lost 
de Rolos were not recovered following the rule of 
the Briarwoods. Traces of the Briarwoods’ defiling 
‘magic still inger within the Greyfield, and the Pale 
Guard are posted here at night to quell the restless 
dead that occasionally claw their way to the surface. 
4. The Heart of Whitestone. A majestic clock 
tower called the Heart of Whitestone stands proud 
and tall over the city. It is Percival de Rolo's favorite 
invention, one he dedicated much of the past two 
decades to constructing to honor his loyal friends, 
their sacrifices, and the trials they endured together. 
The area around it is known as Forlington Square, 
named for one of the first families to settle in 
Whitestone. This bustling courtyard is lined with 
shops and street performers that attract locals and 
tourists alike. 
The clock tower's construction was completed five 
years ago, but Percival continues to tinker with it, 
adding both functionality and self-indulgent embel- 
i 
. The tower has indivi 
a 
for most major holidays (see page 9), including 
depictions of famous moments and persons from 
Whitestone history. The clock tracks the movements 
of the moons, stars, and spheres. The mechanics of 
the clock are only truly understood by Percy himself, 
though small clubs of scholars and esotericists take 
great joy in unraveling its mysteries. Further, it has 
long been rumored that Percival secreted a vault 
within the tower's innards to safeguard his most dan- 
gerous inventions. 
5. Snowdrop Memorial Trail. In the east of the 
city, winding between the Grey Hunt Estate and the 
temple to the Matron of Ravens, is a private trail 
through the woods. Only locals know of this trail, 
and even among them, few know that the path was 
made by Keyleth of Zephrah on one of her many 
visits to the city. Countless snowdrop flowers line 
this secluded track, and they are tended to by Lady 
Vex'ahlia when she has time away from her duties to 
both the Chamber of Whitestone and the Tal’Dorei 
Council. The significance of this memorial garden 
isn’t listed on any plaque, but most in Whitestone 
have an inkling that it's dedicated to a beloved cham- 
pion of the god of death. 
6. Grey Hunt Manor. The estate of the Grand Mis- 
tress of the Grey Hunt is rarely used by the current 
holder of that title these days, as all her nights not 
spent away on Tal'Dorei Council business are passed 
with her family in Castle Whitestone. Members of 
the Grey Hunt still use it as a formal meeting place— 
though meetings of true import take place in their 
secret lair in the eastern ruins (area 11). 
7, House of the Lawbearer. This 
temple is both 
a place of worship and a stately courthouse. All who 
enter are sworn to tell the truth by the vigilant clerics 
of the Lawbearer—for the entire building is under 
the protection of a vast, permanent zone of truth 
spell. This protection is fallible, but it sends a clear 
message to all who enter. 
8. Slayer's Cake Bakery. Founded by members of 
Vox Machina, the Slayer’s Cake has quickly become 
one of the most beloved bakeries in Tal’Dorei, and it 
has a satellite shop in Emon. It ships bread and pas- 
tries to Nicodranas in Wildemount via teleportation 
circle weekly, and the bakery’s owners are thinking 
of expanding. 
9. Lord Trinket’s Public Park. A section of the 
Parchwood to the west of the city was cleared in 
the aftermath of the Whispered One's defeat in 
anticipation of 
a major expansion. However, more of 
the Emonian refugees left the city than anticipated, 
leaving these plans untenable, but the forest already 
cleared. At the request of Vex’ahlia, Grand Mistress 
of the Grey Hunt, the space was transformed into a 
public park that she uses to play with her now-ven- 
erable brown bear, Trinket—and a lifelike marble 
statue of that same bear, clad in magnificent armor, 
stands in its center. 
ns of this city expansion did eventually 
‘come to pass, and now several manor houses have 
been built near the edge of the park to house visiting 
dignitaries. 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 81 ---
10. Galdric’s Gate. The new, northwestern gate of 
Whitestone opens onto the Timberland Trail, which 
grants hunters easy access to the city when they 
return from expeditions 
into the Parchwood. 
U1. Eastern Ruins, Whitestone's first expansion 
in recent times happened just after the fall of the 
Whispered One, to accommodate the city’s large 
refugee population. However, a mix of social unrest 
and monstrous incursions from the Parchwood 
stymied the project, and the bones of the expansion 
were left to fall into ruin. No attempt has been made 
to reclaim the 
ruins, but the Grey Hunt have made a 
secret base of operations in the basement of a mag- 
nificent temple not yet dedicated to any god. 
12, Hearth of the Everlight. Established by 
Pike Trickfoot in the years following Vox Machina’s 
victory over the Whispered One, this humble temple 
stands as a bastion of welcoming light and shelter 
to those seeking solace and direction. Within its 
stone walls, the faithful of the Everlight study her 
philosophy of compassion and fierce protection. Still, 
the temple is far from tranquil—the congregation 
also hosts monthly fétes and revels as a part of their 
worship in the image of their exuberant founder. 
WHITESTONE ADVENTURES 
Game Masters who set their adventure in Whites- 
tone can use these plot hooks for inspiration. 
Dad Scientist (any level). Percival de Rolo doesn’t 
usually involve outsiders in his creative process. 
However, when his youngest daughter Gwendolyn 
takes one of his latest creations and disappears into 
the dungeons of Castle Whitestone, he has no choice 
but to rally all adventurers in Whitestone to join him, 
Vex‘ahlia, and the city's 
elite warriors in scouring the 
dungeons for his missing girl. 
Matter of Some Importance (low-level). The 
Castle Whitestone library recently acquired a new 
book containing unprecedented knowledge about 
the Outer Planes, but opening the tome also opens 
an infernal portal that summons a steady stream of 
imps. The characters are hired by Head Librarian JB 
Trickfoot to keep the imps out of her hair—and out 
of the library, please—while she scours the tome for 
information. 
Grey Hunt (high-level). The characters have been 
recommended to the Grand Mistress of the Grey 
Hunt as formidable adventurers by an unknown 
ally—or adversary. Vexahlia de Rolo considers them 
cautiously, but offers them the chance to prove them- 
selves worthy of the title of Grey Hunter. She sets 
them a task to be completed within the next three 
months: track down a legendary ember roc (see page 
238) in the Cliffkeep Mountains and claim its head 
asa trophy. Of course, she knows that this quest 
is more than just a hunt; the question is, will the 
characters realize it takes more than just skill to join 
DIVIDING PLAINS 
Tal'Dorei’s vast heartland, framed by the Stormerest 
Mountains in the southwest, the Clifikeeps in the 
north, and the Summit Peaks in the south, contains 
miles and miles of rolling hills, tallgrass prairies, 
sky-blue rivers, and fertile farmlands. Within these 
plains, the hardworking people of the realm tend 
to their fields and businesses while adventurers 
and village militias battle back the wild beasts and 
wandering bandits of the region. The safest way 
to avoid being beset by monsters is to travel the 
Silvercut Roadway, which slices through the endless 
plains, connects the coasts, and shepherds caravans 
between them. Of course, the roads are coursing 
with highwaymen and bandits, so which route is 
safer is entirely up to the traveler to decide. 
Cults of the Betrayer Gods also prey upon the 
people of the plains. The most fearsome of these 
death cults are the Ravagers, a bloody band of war- 
riors exiled from cities and nomadic clans alike. All 
people of the plains fear the Ravagers, and even the 
smallest villages train people old enough to hold a 
spear how to defend their homes. Beyond the grassy 
plains, owlbears and other monstrosities stalk the 
forests and foothills that dot the plains and border it 
on many sides. Packs of centaurs also gallop across 
the open plains, delivering the Arch Hear 
as they see fit. 
THE BRAMBLEWOOD 
Surrounding the base of the southernmost stretch 
of the Cliffkeep Mountains is the Bramblewood, a 
dark and tangled forest named for its jagged, thorny- 
barked trees, The Bramblewood’s 
impenetrable 
canopy and thick, gnarled roots give it an ominous 
appearance, but its eerie boughs are populated 
wit 
countless deadly beasts. It’s a grim warning to all 
who would dare approach Gatshadow, the mountain 
of despair: come no closer if you value your lif 
Yet despite this, without the abundant game and 
plentiful timber of the Bramblewood, the nearby city 
of Westruun would likely not exist. A trade city with 
nothing to trade rarely lasts long, and the Bramble- 
wood ensures that local carpenters, artisans, and 
tradesfolk always have plentiful resources. For those 
brave enough to venture into the Bramblewood, a 
pair of well-tread paths have resisted its overgrowth; 
‘one leads to the iron-rich Murdoon Mines at the base 
of the Clifikeeps, while the other winds upward to 
Gatshadow’s storm-wreathed peak. 
BRAMBLEWOOD ADVENTURES 
Game Masters who set their adventure in the Bram- 
blewood can use these plot hooks for inspiration. 
Haunted Road (mid-level). Local folklore speaks 
ofa spectral young woman sometimes appearing 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 82 ---
along the road through the forest, 
sobbing and 
leading men deeper into the Bramblewood to never 
generally con- 
ing crew was 
pot, unwounded 
or stretched acr 
s. A banshee, aided by the 
specters of those 
she has slain, hungers for the sweet taste of another 
adventurer's dying breath 
Blood of the Ruiner (high-level). The Shields, 
Westruun's beleaguered soldiery, have tracked a cell 
of Ravagers to a base in the Bramblewood. They 
have conducted a foul ritual to the Ruiner to turn 
their cult master, an elf named Kal 
into a Ravager slaughter lord (see page 
2 
have also transformed a number 
of the giant spiders 
endemic to the Bramblewood into hideous demon- 
See page 236) through the 
same 
bloody ritual. The Ravagers have created a makeshift 
fortification, and the Shields need to know what their 
next move is—an infiltration mission only powerful 
adventurers are capable of completing. 
CHAPTER 3: TALDOREI GAZETTEER 
Mu dogo. 
Mine 2 QW ESTRUUN 
Majority Faiths: Wildmother, Lawbearer, 
Platinum Dragon 
Minority Faiths: Stormlord, Everlight, Ruin« 
Strife Emperor, Chained Oblivion 
Imports: 
Fish, gold, diamonds, 
spell components 
Exports: Lumber, grain, produce, cobalt, iron, 
silver, livestock 
Le 
MERE BASIN 
This great lake was once the ice fortress of Errevon 
the Rimelord, the elemental behemoth that nearly 
toppled the fledgling realm of Tal'Dorei just two 
years af 
s 
bined forces of Kraghammer, Syngorn, Tal'Dorei, 
and the Ashari hurled the Rimelord back into the 
Elemental Plane of Ice and brought an end to the 
Icelost Years. The massive lake left behind by Errev- 
‘on’s melted 
is now the largest source of fi 
water in central Tal'Dorei. 
Foramere Basin's shores are peppered 
shing communities 
that trade with iKymal 
struun, The great lake is fed by three rivers 
ife to the Dividing Plains: the Byhills, the 
‘Tundrun, and the Wildpath. After especially hard 
winters, these rivers run hard and fast, and the

--- PAGE 83 ---
82 
overflows spill into the Foramere Waterway, which 
flows into Owlset Bay, near Stilben. 
‘Some of these fishing villages are home to the 
descendants of the fighters that warred against the 
Rimelord’s tyranny. Even in times when Syngorn 
and Kraghammer were bitter rivals, the elves 
and dwarves here took no part in their home- 
lands’ hatred. 
FORAMERE BASIN ADVENTURES 
Game Masters who set their adventure in Foramere 
Basin can use this plot hook for inspiration. 
‘Nightmare Before Winter's Crest (mid-level). 
The festival of Winter's Crest celebrates the anniver- 
sary of the Rimelord’s defeat and the fall of Foramere 
Citadel, The characters, far from home on the holi- 
day, are not only witness to the fishing communities 
on the banks of the basin gathering to celebrate Win- 
ter’s Crest, but to the grim 
sight of Foramere’s waters 
‘surging upward from the basin. The water has begun 
to freeze into towers of ice—someone or something 
is recreating the domain of Errevon the Rimelord 
and will not stop until all of Tal'Dorei is buried in ice. 
IRONSEAT RIDGE 
The gnolls and hillsfolk of the Dividing Plains say 
the crooked, angular mountain that juts out of the 
plains and foothills was once the throne of a titan. 
From a distance, Ironseat Ridge does resemble a 
crooked chair. Whether or not this legend is true 
hardly matters; the tales of Ironseat Ridge permeate 
the folklore of the plains. 
‘The mountains surrounding Ironseat 
itself have 
been hollowed out over the centuries, and other 
legends say that the ruins of an abandoned dwarven 
redoubt called Inverspire can be found by explorers 
savvy enough to navigate the labyrinthine tun- 
nels—and that it's surely filled with monsters and 
vast riches. Legends aside, countless abandoned 
mineshafts do snake through the stone like the veins 
ofa dead 
titan. When the winds grow strong, you 
can sometimes hear a terrible, growling moan from 
the air pressing through the empty channels. People 
from Kymal rarely venture close enough to the moun- 
tains to hear the noise, but sometimes on clear, silent 
nights, the monstrous sound echoes through Kymal’s 
brightly lit streets. 
IRONSEAT RIDGE ADVENTURES 
Game Masters who set their adventure in Ironseat 
Ridge can use these plot hooks for inspiration, 
The Beast Below (any level), It’s one of those still 
nights where the howls of the Ironseat echo across 
the plains. The next time the characters spend a 
night in town, whether in Kymal or any small village 
of the plains, they learn of disappearances—explor- 
ers that went into the caves, never to return—and of 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 84 ---
the hefty reward their grieving families are offering 
for their return. What could be making that awful 
wailing 
in the caves? Werewolves? Kidnappers using 
the echoing caverns? 
Dead Fires of Inverspire (epic-level). The mythic 
redoubt of Inverspire contains a legendary creation 
of the All-Hammer: a forge guardian (see page 
239). It was placed here by the All-Hammer during 
the Calamity to watch over a forge with the power 
to create arms and armor fit only for a war between 
gods and mortals. Over twenty years ago, the ele- 
mental power of the Cinder King somehow ignited 
this divine creation's ashen heart and filled it 
with 
elemental life. It has turned to the forge it was made 
to guard, and has begun creating beings of steel and 
flame that will 
tear Tal'Dorei apart stone by stone in 
order to find its missing father, the All-Hammer. Only 
definitive proof of the All-Hammer's imprisonment 
beyond the Divine Gate can quench the guardian's 
anguished flames. 
IVYHEART THICKET 
Clustered at the western side of the Ironseat Ridge, 
this thicket contains the ruins of an ancient civili 
zation that remains under study by the Alabaster 
Lyceum. Among scattered relics and the rubble of 
forgotten villages lie references to the Founding: the 
first age of the world. The excavation pushes onward 
under the watch of the Lyceum, with the promise of 
discovery looming, but very little understanding of 
what may be found beneath. 
The western edges of these ruins are the most dan- 
gerous—and the most alluring—part of the Ivyheart 
Thicket. A vast, well decorated with ivy-crept marble 
pillars, burns with eternal fire. Explorers in the 
employ of the Alabaster Lyceum say that this place 
has become a hotbed of activity. Azer have flocked to 
it from the Elemental Plane of Fire, and have made it 
their home, forging beautiful bronze weapons, armor, 
and objets dart. The Lyceum reports that elemental 
activity within the nearby redoubt of Inverspire is 
somehow related to this elemental incursion—and 
that it may be connected to the mythic fire giant 
stronghold of Vulkanon (see page 220). 
KYMAL 
Small City: Population 29,440 (63% humans, 24% 
dwarves, 13% other races) 
Glitzy. Gilded. Grimy. The city of Kymal stands as 
the grumbling ghost of 
a gold-rush boomtown. These 
days, it’s a haven for gamblers and criminals: a city of 
gold built atop a mountain of mud. 
Over two centuries before, the discovery of rich 
gold veins 
within the Ironseat Ridge sent a rush of 
eager folk to its base. Kymal began life as their base 
camp, and over the next century it grew into a lively, 
AL'DOREI GAZETTEER 
CHAPTER 
booming city. Gold and minerals came out of Kymal, 
and all the pleasures of home followed. Music, the- 
ater, sex, food, liquor, drugs, trinkets—if you could 
want it, you could find it in Kymal. Anything 
you 
could spend money on was there, and people spent 
money like the world was ending. The rich binged 
anything they could get their hands on to pretend 
they were important, and poor folk indulged in what- 
ever comfort they could find from their wretched 
existence in a town where money meant everything. 
In time, of course, the veins ran dry. Ten years 
after Kymal boomed into being, it went bust. The 
miners packed up and left. Not many of them had 
struck it rich; in fact, most folk were worse off than 
they had been before. In the intervening centuries, 
Kymal has gone through too many cycles of boom 
and bust to count. New veins of gold or mithral or 
adamantine have been found in the mountains, and 
people rush in to claim it. Or a cunning entrepreneur 
comes up with a scheme to put Kymal on the map— 
and it works, for a few years, before the con runs 
its course and people are right back to where they 
were before. 
Most folk here make a modest living in rural 
villages surrounding Kymal's city center, or trawling 
the nearby Foramere Basin for fish, and are trying to 
build interest as a trade center like Westruun, though 
without much luck. Kymal's most recent change of 
fortune, however, has yet to run dry. Some seventy 
years ago, an entrepreneur from Ank’Harel named 
Calis Krishtan opened a small casino called “The 
Maiden’s Wish.” It started something of a gold rush 
of its own, one that continues to this day. 
The city has grown over the past seventy years, 
becoming a hub of entertainment and games of 
chance in Tal’Dorei. So great was Calis's revival of 
Kymal that the Tal’Dorei Council appointed his son 
(and heir to the Maiden’s Wish), Jaktur Krishtan, the 
Margrave of Kymal. 
GOVERNMENT 
Now entering old age, Margrave Jaktur Krishtan 
is desperately trying to maintain the boom that his 
father created, while grooming his son to take over 
his gambling empire. Krishtan has recently made 
headlines across Tal'Dorei by relinquishing his 
position as margrave. It's an open secret that Jaktur 
Krishtan has never had a head for governance, sim- 
ply enjoying 
the lavish, gold-plated life his casinos’ 
profits bring him. He could easily have allowed his 
advisors to continue running Kymal for him while he 
continued to throw magnificent galas, make nightly 
appearances at the Maiden’s Wish, and put his 
stamp of approval on glitzy parades down the city’s 
main street. 
Investigators have flocked to Kymal to uncover 
the truth of Margrave Krishtan’s sudden change of 
83

--- PAGE 85 ---
84 
heart. All suspect that the truth is a salacious secret, 
‘one which would shake Kymal to its foundations. 
Krishtan himself seems unperturbed. He continues 
tolive large as he always has, his detractors don’t 
disparage him any more than usual, and the public 
that loves him hasn't changed their tune. 
Jaktur’s former majordomo, an austere tiefling 
woman named Khavasta “Prudence” Almiji, has 
taken up the mantle of Acting Margrave with quiet 
satisfaction. Iti, after all, the title that she should 
have had for the past thirty years, and she hopes 
that the Tal Dorei Council will see fit to appoint her 
margrave permanently in very short order. 
DEFENSE 
The acting margrave commands a force of about one 
thousand armed guards called the Public Defense. 
Despite the name, they are most often seen stationed 
around the casinos owned by ex-Margrave Krishtan, 
or working as bodyguards for Kymal's politicians 
and wealthy cardsharps. Gold can buy anything in 
Kymal, even the personal protection of the Pub- 
lic Defense. 
CRIME 
Kymal is no longer the den of 
crime it once was, but 
there is still scum beneath its glitzy and imperfect 
facade. Small-time cutpurses lurk in the shadows, 
waiting to make off with the small fortunes won by 
the casinos luckiest patrons. The war between the 
Clasp and the Myriad smolders within Kymal as well, 
but Acting Margrave Almiji has played her cards 
carefully and intelligently. Through an intricate web 
of bribes, promises, and threats, she has managed 
to suppress even the faintest trace of gang violence 
within her city. 
Ofcourse, crime still occurs in Kymal. It’s just 
not public and bloody. The Clasp and Myriad both 
‘own casinos in town—named the Wishing Well and 
the Dragon's Hoard, respectively. Not many know of 
these casinos’ less-than-savory proprietorship. Even 
those who do fail to realize just how deeply rigged its 
tables are—or how many pickpockets and swindler 
hide in plain sight in their gilded halls. 
Moreover, the Clasp and Myriad 
alike have 
immense illicit drug operations within Kymal. The 
Public Defense is technically bound to arrest anyone 
RUINS OF TORTHIL 
While traveling south of Kymal along the Wildwood 
Byway, just outside of the Ivyheart Thicket, travelers 
can spot a mile-wide cluster 
of broken stone, salted 
earth, and a single obsidian monument to the death 
of Warren Drassig, one of the most infamous and 
terrible figures in Tal'Dorei history. This scarred 
patch of land marks the ruins of the village of Torthil, 
which was the site of a pivotal battle of the Scat- 
tered War—one in which King Warren Drassig was 
ambushed and slain by a rebel army. 
The city was destroyed in an act of vengeance by 
Warren's eldest son Neminar over two centuries 
ago. Now, its ruins harbor only memories—and 
occasionally outlaws and cultists who use the ghost 
stories that surround it to avoid suspicion. The now 
long-weathered wreckage and broken foundations of 
the town harbor only ghosts and unsavory creatures 
drawn to places of such dark history. 
RUINS OF TORTHIL ADVENTURES 
Game Masters who set their adventure in the Ruins 
of Torthil can use this plot hook for inspiration, 
Forgotten War Machine (high-level). The Ruins 
of Torthil hold one lost secret. Buried beneath a land- 
slide in one of the nearby hills is a platinum golem 
(Gee page 239). Any crests that may have indicated 
who it fought for— Tal'Dorei’s rebels, the elves of 
Syngorn, or Drassig’s legions—have been scoured 
away by time. The characters are drawn to Torthil 
when exiles and criminals living in the ruins flood 
into Kymal, saying that a greedy treasure hunter 
awakened a metallic monster that laid waste to the 
already ruined town—and is now making its way 
steadily toward Kymal! 
SHADEBARROW 
No one who has visited the Shadebarrow has ever 
returned alive—but neither do they come back 
entirely dead. The Shadebarrow was once a mono- 
lithic henge used as a ritual site for sun-worshiping 
druids known as the Dawn Circle, but their shrine 
became their tomb after Trist Drassig slew them 
for aiding Zan Tal'Dorei in the Scattered War, cen- 
turies ago. 
After Trist Drassig’s death, the trade guilds of 
caught selling 
or 
ing 
these substances, but 
the bulk of these arrests fall on small-time crooks 
working for these criminal organizations, almost 
never the high-ranking membe: 
GEOGRAPHY 
Kymal is built on the rocky foothills of the Ironseat 
Ridge. Exploring beyond the glamorous city leads 
‘one to nothing but a desolate expanse of boulders 
and scrub-brush. 
wun laid claim to the unowned land, and from 
there, the Dawn Circle's abandoned and treasureless 
burial tunnels were purchased from the unions at 
great cost by an eccentric Westruunian baron named 
Sevil Howthess. His obsession with its history led 
him to be interred there upon his passing, the tomb 
outfitted with protections and, supposedly, the rem- 
nants of his fortune. 
The exact location of the Shadebarrow has 
been forgotten by all but the Baron Howthess's 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 86 ---
ILLEGAL DRUGS 
If you want to include drugs in your RPG campaign, 
consider discussing with your group in a session 
zero (see page 149) to make sure everyone is okay 
to encounter them in-game. If any player says no 
or doesn't enthusiastically buy-in, err on the side of 
caution and leave the drugs out. It’s also important to 
check in with your group whenever drug use comes 
into play, just to make sure everyone is still having 
fun, Additionally, while use of drugs might be fine 
with everyone, also make sure you know how com- 
fortable your players are with explicit descriptions 
of needles, issues of addiction, and any other topics 
related to drug use. 
The Clasp and the Myriad deal in a variety of ille- 
gal, mind-altering drugs, and Kymal is the epicenter 
of both organizations’ clientele. Though the creation 
and possession of these drugs is strictly prohibited in 
most of Tal'Dorei, they have found popularity within 
all levels of society, particularly in Kymal, where the 
Public Defense frequently looks the other way for a 
small bribe. 
Oloore Root. This root is typically sold in teabags 
for 100 gp per dose. It was originally a ritualistic tool 
used by the followers of many gods, but now sees 
‘more recreational use. Oracles used it to enhance 
their divinations, for it helped them leave their phys- 
ical bodies behind and become closer to gods and 
spirits. Drinking tea brewed from the root causes 
intense hallucinations, which feel like they have 
granted perfect clarity of mind to the imbiber. 
After drinking oloore tea as an action, you must 
succeed on a DC 19 Constitution saving throw or 
experience vivid hallucinations for 1d4 hours. During 
this time, you have disadvantage on attack rolls and 
ability checks. If you fail the saving throw by 10 or 
more, your hallucinations become horrific visions 
and you gain 
a level of exhaustion. Ona success, you 
gain preternatural clarity, allowing you to cast the 
scrying spell once within the next 1d4 hours. 
Zeal, Distilled from the ichor of demons, zeal 
was originally used by Tal’Dorei's ancient berserk- 
ers to grant them incredible strength and courage 
before battles. These days, 
it’s most commonly used 
by criminal bruisers before a brawl. Most modern 
few Surviving grandchildren, and they deny any 
involvement with the forgotten crypt. The surviving 
descendants of Sevil Howthess, Camilla Tenver and 
Buddleia 
Austan, live in Westruun, but have changed 
their names through marriage. Only searching 
through the public records in Westruun's Hall of 
Reason or seeking lore about the Shadebarrow in 
the Cobalt Reserve will turn up their names. 
Despite the barrow’s location being lost to time, 
treasure hunters and historians still seek out—and 
CHAPTER 
3: TAL’DOREI 
GAZETTEER 
warriors stay well away from zeal, due both to its 
addictive nature and to the mental and physical 
degeneration it can cause over long periods of 
time. 
When prepared properly, zeal is a purple, ashy-tast- 
ing gel that typically costs 150 gp per dose. 
After slathering zeal across your exposed skin 
as an action, you must make a DC 12 Constitution 
1d4 rounds as your muscles lock up. On a succe: 
your weapon attacks deal an additional 1d6 damage 
for the next minute. After this effect ends, you gain 
‘one level of exhaustion. 
Saude. Exandria's most infamous drug, suude is 
a glittering powder made from residuum (ee page 
75). It was first developed by power-hungry arch- 
mages in the Age of Arcanum as an incense burned 
to enhance focus during ritual spellcasting. The 
secret to its refinement has been lost and rediscov- 
ered a variety of times since the Calamity, and many 
different types of suude have been developed by 
arcanists 
in search of ever-greater power. It ha 
rible addictive and mentally degenerative propet 
even when used sparingly. 
After burning suude within a vessel and inhali 
its fumes as an action, you take 22 (4d10) psychic 
damage and must make a DC 10 Constitution saving 
throw. Ona failure, you become poisoned for 1 hour 
and fall unconscious for 1 minute, or until you are 
shaken awake as an action. During this time, the 
world seems to move in slow motion, and your vision 
is twisted in kaleidoscopic colors—yet your focus is 
never distorted. If one dose of suude, or more, is used 
within 1 hour of another, the DC of the Constitution 
saving throw is increased by 5 per additional dose. If 
you fail this save by 10 or more, you instantly drop to 
O hit points. 
On a success, you gain the ability to use one of the 
following Metamagic options as a sorcerer for the 
next minute, requiring no sorcery points. The type of 
Metamagic you gain access to depends on the type 
of suude, and once you use it, you can’t use it again 
until you inhale suude again. 
Brown suude allows you to use the Extended Spell 
Metamagic option, blue suude allows 
you to use 
‘Twinned Spell, and red suude grants Distant Spell. 
saving throw. Ona failure, you become paralyzed for f 
occasionally find—the infamous erypt. If they ever 
return to civilization, 
it 
ig spirit, cursed 
to eternally torment whoever they thought of in their 
final moments, or as a shambling corpse focused 
only on murdering their loved ones. 
SHADEBARROW ADVENTURES 
The Shadebarrow is a crypt that you can turn into a 
dungeon of any size in your campaign. It may have 
only a single layer filled with ghosts, and perhaps 
85

--- PAGE 87 ---
a plot-important item. Orit 
could be a multi-level 
dungeon with interconnected passages and a mighty 
reward at the bottom, like a Vestige of 
Divergence 
(Gee page 200) guarded by a terrible monster. 
Game Masters who set their adventure in the 
Shadebarrow can also use these plot hooks for 
inspiration. 
Forsaken Monolith (low-level). While traveling 
across the Dividing Plains, the characters stumble 
upon the Shadebarrow. The ancient druidic henges 
stand regally atop the grassy hill, and all seems 
peacefuul—until the specters of dead explorers rise 
from the ground. They wail an incessant curse as 
they try to kill or scare intruders away: “Defiler! 
Howthess!” 
Undeath Unbound (epic-level). The Demon 
Prince of Undeath is one of the foul princes of the 
Abyss and a mighty servant of the Betrayer Gods. 
The cruelty shown at the Dawn Circle so long ago 
drew his loathsome gaze, and for centuries he 
has bided his time, waiting for a mortal to disturb 
this nest of hate and undeath. Ever since Baron 
Howthess disturbed the Shadebarrow’s seal, this 
prince of evil has rallied an army of undeath in the 
accursed depths of this crypt. Now, the time has 
come for him to spill his plague of undeath across 
the Dividing Plains. The undead are spreading to all 
corners of Tal'Dorei, and the characters must find 
the Shadebarrow and reach its deepest sanctum to 
halt their spread for good. 
SILVERCUT ROADWAY 
med for the shimmer of endless fields of 
windswept, sunlit grasses that accompany the 
way, the Silvercut Roadway connects the heart 
of Tal’Dorei—Emon—to its distant extremities, 
affording traders and travelers some measure of 
safety against the wilds. Parts of this ancient road 
predate the Tal’Dorei Council, and it now runs from 
the Bladeshimmer Shoreline to the Lucidian Coast, 
connecting most major hubs of ci 
ition across. 
the country. 
SILVERCUT CROSSROADS 
The Silvercut Roadway and the Wildwood Byway 
meet in the shadow of the Ironseat Ridge. During 
the rule of Drassig, many innocents and war heroes 
were executed by hanging at a massive gallows that 
once stood at the crossroads, with bodies hung from 
signs as a warning to dissenters. The gallows were 
destroyed by Zan Tal’Dorei’s rebel army, and the 
rebels created a stone monument with an inscription 
to commemorate all who lost their lives to tyranny: 
The standard-bearers of revolution honor the inno: 
cent dead. Vengeance will not restore the lives of the 
ost, nor will it appease their spirits. We vow you will 
receive justice, for justice will ensure that no more 
guiltless blood shall be shed. 
Most travelers choose not to camp too closely to 
the site, for there are countless urban legends about 
hauntings that surround this grim monument. 
SILVERCUT ROADWAY ADVENTURES 
Game Masters who set their adventure on the Silver- 
cut Roadway can use these plot hooks for inspiration. 
The Road Warriors (low-level). While traveling 
across the Silvercut, the characters come across 
the smoking wreckage of 
a massive wagon train, 
and investigation shows that it has been ransacked 
aftera fierce battle. A team of mercenaries called the 
Road Warriors spring upon the characters, blaming 
them for the attack. Investigating the wreckage turns 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 88 ---
up unholy symbols 
of the Ruiner, 
suggesting that the 
Ravagers were responsible for the massacre, allow- 
ing the characters to easily clear their names. 
But is it 
really that simple? Further investigation 
reveals that this convoy had a number of mercenai 
the 
id many of 
them had con- 
tracts from the League of Mirac 
‘Shard of the Shadebarrow (mid-level). A wraith 
calling herself the spirit of Archdruid Avandros 
has 
animated an army of ghouls and ghasts from the 
graveyard. The undead have taken over the Silver. 
Crossroads, and they must be dealt with before a 
national trade crisis emerges. But what is the spirit 
of an archdruid 
of the Dawn Circle doing in thi 
mass grave? Sneaking into the graveyard reveals a 
human skull with sinister amethyst growths protrud 
ing from the bone, and Avandros's 
spirit is desperate 
to protect it. 
THRONE OF THE ARCH HEART 
In the foothills of the Ironseat Ridge is a small rise 
known as the Throne of the Arch Heart: a gather- 
ing place for the many nomadic centaurs who ride 
across the Dividing Plains. The centaurs were fi 
born when the Arch Heart showed mercy to a 
of elven horse riders who gave their lives serving 
their god during the Calamity. For centuries, the 
LDOREI GAZETTEER 
centaurs have all returned to the Throne of the Arch 
t once per decade to gather in a Herdsmeet to 
discuss the state of the herds, and to pay homage to 
their deity on the very hill where the first 
centaurs 
were created. This event causes great chaos in the 
eastern plains; the massive migration of the centaur 
herds disrupts trade and stirs the Ravagers to acts of 
terrible 
vengeance against the creations of the Arch 
Heart—the Ruiner’s divine nemesis. 
THRONE OF THE ARCH 
HEART ADVENTURES 
Game Masters who set their adventure in the 
Throne of the Arch Heart can use this plot hook for 
inspiration. 
Fist of the Ruiner (mid-level). Many orcs call this 
rise the Fist of the Ruiner, for they too were created 
here in the image of their god. Legend tells that ores 
and centaurs were both created at this 
rise in the 
aftermath of a battle between the Arch Heart and 
the Ruiner. Orcs with a deep appreciation 
for ancient 
myths from across Tal’Dorei make a pilgrimage 
at the time of the Herdsmeet. Some are longtime 
friends of the centaurs, and they pay homage to the 
Arch Heart together in thanks for spilling the blood 
that created them. Other orcs 
join with the Ravagers 
to lay siege to the Herdsmeet—and the Ravagers’ 
87

--- PAGE 89 ---
88 
bloodthirsty power is so great that ores and centaurs 
alike have begun hiring humanoid mercenaries to 
defend the herds and pilgrims as they attempt to 
worship the Arch Heart in peace. 
TORIAN FOREST 
Cradling the southwestern edge of the Cliffkeep 
Mountain range, the Torian Forest supplies much of 
Emon's timber, as well as Kraghammer's firewood. 
Though its locals proudly proclaim the Torian to 
be the “most welcoming” and “least haunted” of 
Tal'Dore’’s forests, this 
is more of a myth than pe 
ple realize. The forest is welcoming and bright at its 
edges, with a beautiful wetland at its northern end, 
but within its deep and unexplored heart are spirits 
not understood since the Age of Arcanum— and a 
cruel and hungry wraithroot tree guarding a magical 
artifact likewise not seen since time immemorial 
RIVERMAW HERD 
Born from the wild peoples of the Dividing Plains, 
free folk who shunned the constraints 
the Rivermaw is the greatest of the Di 
herds. It now boasts a membership of nearly ten 
thousand, along with a number of satellite herds that 
owe their allegiance to the Rivermaw. 
Though the Rivermaw is now a mighty force for 
good on the Dividing Plains, they had humble begin- 
nings. Just two generations ago, they numbered little 
more than three hundred half-giants, ores, gnolls, 
humans, and nomads of other races that made their 
home in the Torian Forest. 
It wasn't until they were conquered by the Herd of 
Storms, helmed by the tyrannical goliath Kevdak, 
that a more violent way of life was forced upon them 
for a number of years. Once Kevdak was slain, the 
remaining members of both the Rivermaw and the 
Herd of Storms recanted his brutal ways and become 
the Rivermaw Herd known across Tal'Dorei today. 
It is led by two goliaths: Zanroar, son of Kevdak, and 
Skyhaal, daughter of Zanroar. 
TURST FIELDS 
Village: Population 2,420 (40% humans, 38% 
halflings, 15% gnolls, 8% other races) 
To the northwest of Drynna, not far from the Dawn- 
mist Pines, the farming community of Turst Fields 
toils over extremely fertile land fed by the Mooren 
River Run. Providing much of Tal'Dorei and Whites- 
tone’s grown food and produce, the community must 
import most all other commodities outside of wood, 
making it a lucrative stop for trade caravans traveling 
along the Parchwood Way to Drynna—and an easy 
target for swindlers. As such, nearly two hundred 
Shields from Westruun are permanently stationed 
here to keep the peace and prevent unlawful activity. 
Nearly as common as the arrival of a trader’s wagon 
is an armored carriage transporting brigands, grift 
ers, and horse thieves back to Westruun for trial. 
GNOLL MERCY 
Turst Fields has a significant gnoll population. As 
mutant beings created by demonic rituals, gnolls are 
shunned as monsters in most humanoid settlements 
on the Dividing Plains. Nevertheless, without the 
Dustpaw gnolls, Turst would not have survived 
its first summer. When the village was founded, 
it was easy prey for the Ravagers. Their leader 
sought blood tribute from the people of Turst, but 
the villagers refused to offer a sacrifice. This cell of 
Ravagers had recently sought the favor of the Demon 
Lord of Slaughter, transforming a number of the 
plains-dwelling hyenas into gnolls in that pursuit. 
When the villagers of Turst refused to give up 
their own, the Ravagers unleashed the gnolls upon 
them. But something unusual happened. After the 
gnolls first drew blood, one of them began to weep. 
‘Then another, until all of the gnolls were howling in 
sorrow and fury. These beings, though infused with 
demon ichor, turned against their creators to defend 
their helpless prey. 
To this day, the Dustpaw gnolls have lingered in 
Turst, slowly becoming trusted members of their 
community. Their unsettling fangs and canine faces 
upset many who travel to this village, but any who 
deride the gnolls do so at their own risk. Not at the 
risk of mauling from a gnoll—though any humanoid 
being will fight back if pushed too far—but because 
hateful agitators will soon find themselves sur- 
rounded by the spears of the Turst militia. 
TURST FIELDS ADVENTURES 
Game Masters who set their adventure in Turst 
Fields can use this plot hook for inspiration. 
Herd Mentality (mid-level). A half-elf, half-drag- 
onblood Ravager slaughter lord (see page 249) 
calling herself Grud the Great has taken control of 
an arm of the Ravagers. Her highly organized regi- 
ment worships the Strife Emperor. Now, they march 
on Turst to take an easy foothold in the northern 
plains. The army is too large to be stopped by just 
the characters, but a Dustpaw gnoll warrior named 
Akaksa knows of 
a number of nomadic groups 
wandering nearby that could help defend the town, 
if properly persuaded. The characters can seek out 
the Dawnmist Herd, led by a goliath Rivermaw 
stormborn (see page 253) named Gardessk, and 
convince him to aid the people of Turst. 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 90 ---
WESTRUUN 
City: Population 51,980 (61% humans, 10% gnomes, 
7% tieflings, 5% orcs, 4% half-giants, 1% gnolls, 
12% other races) 
The city of Westruun is the center of Tal'Dorei, a 
crossroads of culture along the Silvercut Roadway 
that welcomes adventurers, traders, and vagabonds 
ofall kinds. Despite 
its name, Westruun is more 
east than west, and was in fact named after Palest 
Westruun, the trader and philosopher who founded 
the city. Westruun suffered under the rule of the 
goliath tyrant Kevdak's Herd of Storms. Worse, 
its outlying towns and great stone buildings were 
ravaged by the acidic breath of Umbrasyl the Hope 
Devourer, an ancient black dragon of the Chroma 
Conclave who exacted tribute from her lair in the eerie 
mountain of Gatshadow. Despite the damage inflicted 
by its evil rulers, Westruun was one of the first cities 
in Tal'Dorei to recover from the Conclave. Though 
its government is deeply in debt to both the League 
of Miracles and a number of adventuring parties, the 
city has long since reclaimed its place of importance 
as an economic, academic, and political power withi 
Tal'Dorei 
GOVERNMENT 
Westruun underwent a political revolution in the 
wake of the Chroma Conclave's defeat. The former 
margrave, Brandon Zimmerset, was a tyrant who 
claimed absolute power for himself following Kev. 
dak's defeat at the hands of Vox Machina. The title of 
margrave is a holdover from the authoritarian rule of 
Warren Drassig centuries ago, and those who hold 
that office are appointed for life by the council. A 
group of local idealists called the Retrievers banded 
with adventurers and mercenaries to overthrow Zim- 
merset a decade after he took power, and instated 
their leader as the lord mayor instead. Elections 
for the position of Lord Mayor 
of Westruun are 
held every five years, with no term limits. All adult 
citizens of the city who have lived there for at least 
five years have a vote, though only a fraction of the 
people actually use it. 
The Retrievers continue to be a political force in 
Westruun, and several of Westruun's delegates to the 
Tal'Dorei Council are members of this faction. They 
are campaigning to abolish the office of margrave 
from all settlements in Tal'Dorei. Though they have 
broad support in the council, the council doesn't have 
the authority to unilaterally demand its constituent 
city-states to change their system of government. The 
revolution-minded Retrievers are somewhat stifled 
by the need to compromise with other cities. 
Lord Mayor Lysandra Kallos is a middle-aged 
goliath and former leader of the Retrievers, She has 
never lost a vote for reelection, and holds executive 
CHAPTER 3: TAL’DOREI GAZETTEER 
power over the city's defenses, along with the ability 
to dissolve any business or guild, and to exile any 
person or group of up to ten people from the city at 
her discretion. She rules Westruun with the aid of 
a 
council of ten advisors. 
DEFENSE 
The lord mayor commands a city guard of about 
1,200 trained soldiers known as the Shields of the 
Plain, though most folk just call them the Shields. 
Westruun’s soldiery is spread thin across the walls 
of the city itself, stationed at the gates of the dozens 
of outlying settlements and conducting raids against 
small cells of Ravagers across the plains. 
Many people in town would like to gather their 
forces and put an end to the Ravagers’ death cult 
once and for all, but the Shields are spread too 
thin to mount an effective offensive. Even in the 
current state, dozens— if not hundreds—of mer- 
cenaries, bounty hunters, and adventurers pass 
through Westruun every year in search of bloody 
work that the Shields are too beleaguered to handle 
themselves. 
DEBT 
Before he was ousted, Margrave Brandon Zimmerset 
authorized hundreds of reconstruction bounties— 
offers of gold to anyone who could rebuild the 
immense damage the city suffered during Umbra- 
syl's attack and the Herd of Storms’ occupation of the 
ity. Bounties were placed on the city’s siege-break- 
1g stone walls, majestic towers and parapets, and 
even its iconic post-and-beam houses, many of which 
were razed completely during the attack, 
The margrave expected these bounties to be slowly 
completed over decades, but they were all snapped 
up and completed in a few short years by mercenary 
mages serving a group called the League of Miracles 
(Gee page 56). The margrave was saddled with a 
crushing debt, one that he was both unwilling and 
unable to pay before being ousted by the Retriev- 
ers. As his successor, Lord Mayor Lysandra Kallos 
inherited Zimmerset's immense debt to the league, 
and is constantly seeking to find ways to alleviate 
their pressure—especially as the league continues to 
use the debt as leverage to buy the allegiance of her 
advisory council. 
CRIME 
The Clasp has become a major and public force in 
Westruun since the criminal organization's dubiously 
virtuous makeover following the Cinder King’s defeat 
in Emon. Many Clasp agents enjoy the reputation 
of folk heroes across the Dividing Plains, and make 
public appearances in taverns and town squares 
throughout Westruun.

--- PAGE 91 ---
Nevertheless, the fact remains that the Clasp is 
This ward is rife with crime. Westruun’s poorest 
still a criminal o: 
ion. They have 
and efficiently run their shadowy trades for decades 
right under the Shields’ noses. Their network of 
fences runs from coast to coast, Stilben to Emon. 
‘Their hideout changes every few years, when the 
Shields manage to track them down. Their current 
hideout is secreted away behind the storefront of 
the Saddled Plainscow, a popular tavern owned and 
‘operated by Clasp agents. 
Folk in search of real folk heroes often seek the 
covert agents of the Golden Grin (see page 54), 
who tend to wait and watch in local taverns. The 
Grin sometimes gets a bad reputation in Westruun, 
since people need help every day, but the Grinners 
prefer to wait for just the right moment to reveal 
themselves and strike against evil. 
GEOGRAPHY 
Miles of farmland and fields surround Westruun’s 
towering stone walls—except to the west, where the 
city is bordered by the Bramblewood and dwarfed by 
the mistshrouded peak of Gatshadow. Nearly two 
dozen villages and towns surround the city’s walls. 
‘The city’s interior is divided into 
six wards: 
‘Scholar Ward. Westruun's northwestern ward 
is home to the Cobalt Reserve, Tal'Dore’’s largest 
public library and private archive. It’s 
also home to. 
a number of other erudite institutions that instruct 
knowledge-seekers from across the Dividing Plains. 
Westhall Academy is the most renowned of them all, 
but in the shadow of these revered institutions is the 
College of the Savvy, a school for the arts founded by 
the storied bard and champion of intuition referred 
to only as the White Duke. 
Temple Ward. The city’s small southern ward 
is replete with major temples to the Prime Deitie: 
and homes for their clergy. The most important 
gods of the Dividing Plains are the Lawbearer, the 
Wildmother, and the Platinum Dragon, and it’s made 
obvious by their huge, resplendent sanctuaries in 
the Temple Ward. The greatest temples here are 
the First Bastion, the Wild Arbor, and the Platinum 
Dragon's Rest. 
Opal Ward. Westruun’s central district is also its 
municipal heart. The ward has no residential hous- 
ing, but is home to the Lord Mayor's Residence, the 
Hall of Reason, and the public square. 
Residential Ward. The northeastern section 
of Westruun is the city’s most densely populated 
ward, housing over two-thirds of its population. 
There are no major landmarks in this ward, though 
every neighborhood in the ward has its own unique 
culture. Even though tourists might not visit the 
landmarks here, there are countless local bakeries, 
shops, and pubs beloved by its residents. 
are pressed 
together in tight quarters, some- 
times as little asa single city block away from the 
city's wealthiest manor houses. The Clasp and the 
Myriad prey upon the poor and affluent alike, often 
stoking the tensions affecting the city’s downtrodden 
to create chaos that masks their crimes. The Shields 
are stretched too thin to properly deal with these agi- 
tators. Unlike in the Temple Ward, free expression of 
religion 
is not a guaranteed right here, even within 
the privacy of one’s own home. Though the Law- 
bearer, the Wildmother, and the Platinum Dragon 
are all benevolent deities, many of their Westruunian 
followers are not particularly tolerant of other faiths. 
Market Ward. Westruun's southwestern ward 
contains the majority of its businesses, trade stands, 
and production warehouses. Some of these busi 
nesses are historic fixtures of the city, rebuilt by 
the League of Miracles in years past, but many sell 
overpriced wares to cater to tourists, adventurers, 
and the city’s wealthy elite. 
It’s currently in fashion for store owners to live in 
a second story above their shops, though less scru- 
pulous businesspeople have turned their residences 
into gambling dens, black markets, and illegal broth- 
els. The most significant building in this ward is the 
Exandrian Exchange, a marble-walled auction house 
where hundreds of vendors hawk rare and unusual 
items from across Tal’Dorei. A satellite location of 
Gilmore's Glorious Goods, a famed magic item shop 
in Emon, is a beloved attraction of this district. 
Underwalk Ward. The city’s newest ward is 
underground. It’s an extension of the residential 
sprawl built from repurposed sections of the sewers, 
underground military bunkers, and the wine cellars 
of mansions annihilated by Umbrasyl and the Herd 
of Storms. 
The Underwalk was frantically excavated during 
the invasion of the Chroma Conclave in hopes of 
keeping the populace hidden. It has been largely 
abandoned for the past twenty-four years, save for 
those too poor to return even to the Residential 
Ward, but an effort has been made in the past two 
years to create a unique and vibrant ecosystem in 
the Underwalk. The optimistic entrepreneurs tr 
to popularize Underwalk housing hire adventurers 
in great quantities, for every day, new and unsettling 
rumors of many-headed monstrosities prowling the 
Underwalk’s shadowed roads spread to the surface. 
The best-known entrance to this tangle of tunnels 
is the Underwalk Gates, a forty-foot wide staircase 
in the Residential Ward that descends into a gaping 
‘opening lit only by torchlight. Another entrance. 
known mostly to the Clasp is a single unassuming 
manhole in the Opal Ward, topped with a metal 
cover emblazoned with the crest of Westruun. 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 92 ---
POINTS OF INTEREST 
The City of Westruun has a number of noteworthy 
landmarks. They are keyed to the map of Westruun. 
1, Cobalt Reserve. This vast repository looks 
more like a house of worship than a library. Nev- 
ertheless, this landmark of the Scholar Ward is. 
Tal'Dore’’s 
largest house of knowledge, and it is 
maintained and fiercely defended by the monks of 
the Library of the Cobalt Soul (see page 58). 
A character who spends 1 hour in the public 
section of the Cobalt Reserve can make a DC 15 
Intelligence (History) check, discovering any piece of 
common knowledge in Tal'Dorei. On a failure, this 
check can be repeated after another hour of study. 
The GM can decide that the knowledge the character 
seeks can only be found in the restricted archi 
which only members of the Cobalt Soul, or chara 
ters in the Cobalt Soul's good graces, can access. 
(2. Westhall Academy. No university in Tal’Dorei 
can hope to compete with the prestige of Emon’s Ala- 
baster Lyceum, but the Westhall Academy does its 
best. Its sand-colored stone walls and copper-patina 
dome are an unmistakable landmark of the Scholar 
Ward. They imply a stately and refined 
tion 
with an unpretentious, workaday attitude. Most of 
the Westhall Academy's students come from humble 
backgrounds, and the lord mayor does her level best 
to ensure that the academy is funded enough to let 
anyone from the plains who shows great promise 
attend, free of cost. Mages, architects, poets, artists, 
agriculturalists, and people of all disciplines can find 
an education at Westhall. 
3. Yuminor Observatory. Westruun is a fairly 
flat city, and one tower on the edge of the Scholar 
Ward looms high above the nearby Westhall Acad- 
emy. It looks forever skyward, the arcanists inside 
constantly charting the movements of the heavens. 
A quasi-religious order of 
diviners and astromancers 
named the Scions of Yuminor study here, supported 
by the academy's headmistress, Estella Ladimar, 
who is herself a blood descendant of the heroic 
wizard Atz Yuminor. The observatory is open to all, 
and the diviners here will gladly give a star reading 
for 10 gp, once per day. Receiving this reading allows 
you to roll 1420. Note the result—you can exchange it 
for any d20 roll made by a creature you can see. This 
divination fades after 24 hours. Despite the Scions 
of Yuminor's affability, something seems odd about 
them, like they have stared into the stars just a bit too 
long and seen something they wish they could forget. 
4. First Bastion. The most magnificent of the 
temples within Westruun’s Temple Ward is the First 
Bastion. Dedicated to the Lawbearer, this opulent 
sanctuary is a common attraction for visiting folk 
of all faiths. Its magnificent, even decadent, gold- 
and-marble exterior is a sight most people can’t 
imagine exists upon the Material Plane—it seems 
CHAPTER 3: TALDOREI GAZETTEER

--- PAGE 93 ---
92 
| 6 Hall hak 
1 Goal Reese 
2 Werball fecdemy 
g tusirir Obireateg 
4 Fire Besion 
} Lord Mayor's Residence 
2 Toe Black 
Kin 
Su 
$ 
ri Lege 
| 2 Gill of thes 
a (pli 
of 
Gueees Gleim 
he Dsteroalh 
G 
like nothing less than a building from the realm of 
the gods themselves. The First Bastion was a secret 
home for refugees during Kevdak’s occupation, and 
many Westruun survivors have turned to the faith of 
the Lawbearer after being protected by her grace. 
5. Lord Mayor's Residence. The Lord Mayor's 
Residence is a squat manor in the Opal Ward. It was 
originally named the Margrave's Keep, and as such, 
itis. defensible and highly fortified compound but- 
tressed against military barracks. The interior has 
been livened up significantly by the lord mayor, but 
the exterior is still a spare, military edifice. 
6. Hall of Reason. This beautiful courthouse in 
the Opal Ward is constructed in sweeping Lyren- 
gornian style and bears a marble statue of the 
Platinum Dragon above its steps. The square before 
the courtroom steps is a forum for public gatherings 
and bears 
a fountain depicting Palest Westruun, the 
founder of the city, atop an onyx horse. 
7. The Black King. Palest Westruun was not a 
king, but his new statue in the Opal Ward is often 
called the Black King, a subtle jab at the city’s previ- 
ous “Black King,” the tyrannical dragon Umbrasyl. 
The high priest of the First Bastion blessed both 
the Black King and Westruun itself when the statue 
‘was unveiled on the anniversary of Westruun’s 
reclamation, saying, “May the Lawbearer grant us 
all strength of spirit when chaos next threatens our 
peaceful civilization. When that time comes, may the 
Black King unsheathe his sword to rally our people 
and lead Westruun to victory. 
When the safety of all of Westruun is threatened, 
the Black King will animate and defend its people, 
becoming a stone golem with a speed of 60 feet, 
Charisma and Intelligence scores of 18 (+4), and the 
ability to speak Common. Its personality 
is dour but 
determined—regal and single-minded in its desire to 
protect its city 
and its people. 
8. Survivors’ Legacy. The names of all those in 
Westruun who survived the reign of Kevdak and 
Umbrasyl are carved on a wall in the first chamber 
of the Underwalk. Legend has it that the memorial 
was created by Percival de Rolo when the people 
of Westruun first hid here from the wrath of the 
Chroma Conclave after Umbrasyl's death, but it has 
been expanded in the years since, now including the 
names of all who perished in the struggle as well. 
‘The Survivors’ Legacy is a symbol of hope, 
warding away the sorrow and evil of the Underwalk 
beneath, and to this day common, folk make trips 
here to honor their lost loved ones. Some of the 
more generous folk give aid to the homeless living 
here as well, and some more adventurous travelers 
make prayers to the Dawnfather 
and the Matron of 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 94 ---
Ravens here before delving into the Underwalk’s 
deeper reaches. 
Once per week, a character related to one of the 
people named on the Survivors’ Legacy can pray 
there and gain advantage on death saving throws for 
the next 24 hours. 
WESTRUUN ADVENTURES 
Game Masters who set their adventure in Westruun 
can use these plot hooks for inspiration. 
They Can't Have Flown Away (low-level). Over 
the past week, over four dozen plainscows (see page 
248), exceptional livestock and beasts of burden, 
have disappeared from Westruun's outlying villages. 
Left in their place were nothing but a series of five- 
foot holes in the ground and traces of acid scarring. 
Farmers and caravanners alike are frightened and 
confused; these recurring attacks threaten to destroy 
Westruun's agriculture and disrupt commerce. Jere- 
miah Sook, head of the regional Rancher's Guild, 
willing to pay a hefty bounty for the culprits. 
An Assistant's Plight (mid-level). Just outside 
Westruuin is Slaterock Tower, the abode of renowned 
archmage Realmseer Eskil Ryndarien (see page 
48). Normally, none are invited to the tower, but 
the characters, wherever they may be, receive a mis- 
sive from the Realmseer's assistant, Jekt. The letter 
claims the Realmseer has gone missing within the 
tower, and the building itself now bars Jekt's entry— 
and apparently, the Realmseer’s exit. Upon arrival, 
and confirmation of Jekt's request, the tower seems 
to constantly shift its interior structure, almost 
acting like a sentient entity. Challenge after deadly 
challenge is thrown at the party as they traverse the 
labyrinthine paths of the tower, only to find that the 
Realmseer himself is 
actually trying to keep some- 
thing far more dangerous imprisoned within. 
The Stuff 
of Nightmares (mid-level). Reports of 
missing children rise once again within Westruun, 
with a seemingly unrelated scourge of nightmares 
plaguing people old and young alike. Mystic exper- 
tise is sought to acquire information regarding either 
issue, but the sadistic oni, secretly responsible for 
both, is deft at erasing its tracks. Nyx and Vryll, twin 
tiefling mages with only a single horn each, have 
also recently opened a dream-reading stall, and their 
business is booming. Are they responsible, or is their 
exploitative business just a red herring? 
Down Below (high-level). A massive sinkhole has 
emerged beneath the First Bastion, taking a portion 
of the temple into the darkness of the Underwalk 
Ward. With the depth seemingly bottomless, and 
initial investigators going missing, high priest 
Umentu Helmdoff seeks the assistance of brave and 
able-bodied adventurers to find answers and save the 
people still in the temple when it vanished. Only one 
thing is certain when descending into the unknown 
CHAPTER 3: TAL’DOREI GAZETTEER 
below-—the terror only grows as the light from 
above fades. 
WILDWOOD BYWAY 
Known as the oldest road in Tal’Dorei, this path 
linked the adolescent cities of Kraghammer and 
‘Syngorn before the landfall of humankind. During the 
reign of Drassig, the Silvercut Roadway intersected 
with this ancient road. Warren Drassig built countless 
fortifications along this road to defend his holdings 
against Syngorn, a move that made him many allies 
within Kraghammer. 
While traveling the Wildwood in broad daylight isn't 
any more dangerous than riding along the Silvercut, 
it's common knowledge that the forest at the northern 
end of this road is fraught with danger. Wild beasts, 
cultists, and bandits make the Wildwood their home. 
CLIFFKEEP MOUNTAINS 
Spanning 
the northern reaches of Tal’Dorei, the 
Cliffkeep Mountains are an impenetrable barrier 
between the Republic of Tal’Dorei and the frozen 
Neverfields. The southern foothills are dotted with 
forests and pockets of civilization, standing resolute 
against the unwelcoming topography. Deep within 
the earth itself, the dwarven stronghold of Kragham- 
mer flourishes and expands, just a few scant leagues 
above ancient caverns that plunge into a domain of 
unknowable horrors 
The Cliffkeeps 
are the largest mountain range in all 
of Tal'Dorei, and innumerable types of beings make 
their homes upon the crags, in mountainside caves, 
and in the miles upon miles of tunnels that descend 
into the earth below them. Dwarves, half-giants, 
goblins, and kobolds are the best-known peoples of 
the Cliffkeeps, but the mountains are also home to 
the fire giants of Vulkanon, wandering ettins and hill 
giants, hungry cyclopes, frost giant marauders from 
the Neverfields, and cave-dwelling trolls, 
Near the earth elemental rift and the Ashari village 
of Terrah, the mountains themselves seem to rise 
up 
in defense as earth elementals spring from the living 
stones. Northward, peaks reach higher and winds 
grow colder as snow and ice take the lands to become 
the frozen waste of the Neverfields. These challenges 
keep the common folk 
at bay, the secrets and spoils 
held within these crags calling to the brave, the clever, 
and the foolhardy. 
FORT DAXIO 
Nestled within the Othendin Pass, north of Emon, 
Fort Daxio is a massive stronghold and series of mili- 
tary structures that, under the rule of the Tal'Dorei 
Council, trains Tal'Dorei’s most elite warriors. The 
fortress was constructed following the Scattered 
War as a strategic bulwark against opportunistic

--- PAGE 95 ---
Majority Faiths: All-Hammer, Stormlord, 
Dawnfather 
Minority Faiths: Platinum Dragon, Moonweaver, 
Lord of the Hells, 
Scaled Tyrant 
i 
'S, fish, grain, 
livestock 
gems, industrial metals, quartz, 
granite, gold, silver, platinum, mithral, cobalt, 
jewelry, fungal produce, weapons, armor 
humanoid and giant bandit forces in the Cliffkeep 
Mountains, and as a hidden reserve of military might 
in the event that Emon was ever threatened. 
Though Tal'Dorei doesn't maintain a standing 
army—rather, it assembles one in times of strife from 
mercenaries, adventurers, and local militias—the 
forces of Fort Daxio 
are an exception. The legendary 
Daxio Outriders are a corps of cavaliers some four 
thousand strong. Half thei 
remain 
stationed 
in Fort Daxio and its surroundings at any given time, 
serving as a historic barrier between Emon and the 
bandits and creatures of the Cliffkeep Mountains. 
The other two thousand Outriders are spread across 
the continent, typically in battalions of up to one 
hundred riders, 
safeguarding villages, patrolling the 
Silvercut Roadway, putting pressure on the Ravag- 
ers of the Dividing Plains, or protecting traveling 
diplomats. 
Fort Daxio itself 
is led by General Elle Gorgofon, 
a dour but diplomatic tactician. She served faithfully 
under the fort's previous leader, Warmaster Mikael 
fore 
-five years before he was 
killed at the hands of a vampire hoping to throw 
the fort into chaos. Daxio was resurrected, but is 
enjoying an extended holiday in Syngorn rather than 
returning to arms. 
The Daxio Outriders are divided into four different 
regiments: The Dusk Regiment, the Gale Regiment, 
the Aegis Regiment, and the 
Tide Regiment. Each 
regiment is led by their own assigned general, 
all 
answering directly to General Gorgofon (who in turn 
answers to the Master of War on the Tal’Dorei Coun- 
cil 
in time 
The Dusk Regiment is re: 
ations across the country and is led by General Fei 
Yujian, 
a cheerful, affab! 
trained in skyborne combat in addition to horserid- 
ing; 
after the Chroma Conclave was defeated, Fort 
Daxio trained a variety of griffons, hippogrifs, and 
wyverns to ward against airborne threats. Itis led by 
General Jillian Sylph, a calm, 
tactical human with air 
charged 
ing in Fort Daxio to protect Emon, and 
is led by General 
Elle Gorgofon herself. 
The Tide 
Regiment is trained in spelicasting and ship-to-ship 
combat, in case Emon is ever threatened from the 
western seas. This final regiment 
is led by General 
Kay Clearsight, a half-elf trained in the arcane arts 
at 
the renowned Soltryce Academy in the Dwendalian 
Empire of Wildemount. 
elemental ancestry. The Aegis Regiment 
with rem: 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 96 ---
FORT DAXIO ADVENTURES 
Game Masters who set their adventure in Fort Daxio 
can use this plot hook for inspiration. 
Vampire Hunters (high-level). Years ago, War- 
master Mikael Daxio was killed by a vampire named 
Vrylaska Fellbranch, She disappeared without a 
trace, and the Daxio Outriders have been searching 
fruitlessly for her for years. While the characters 
are in Fort Daxio, a scout returns with breathless 
news of vampire attacks in remote settlements in the 
Cliffkeep Mountains. General Elle Gorgofon suspects 
a trap, but has no choice but to mobilize the Aegis 
Regiment—and the characters, if they accept her 
offer of 5,000 gp—to hunt the monster down. 
Little do they know that, while the Aegis Regiment 
is away, the vampire’s minions hidden in Fort Daxio 
will come out to play. 
GATSHADOW 
‘The mighty mountain known as Gatshadow is a 
spire of death that looms over the Dividing Plains. 
Westruun sees it always upon the horizon, and the 
most vicious monsters of the Bramblewood grow 
cruel in its fell shadow. Folkloric tales about the evil 
powers within Gatshadow are told in all cultures of 
the Dividing Plains: stories of giant spiders in the 
forest, of beings of pure shadow that dwell within the 
mountain's tunnels, and of the tunnels themselves, 
which are so labyrinthine and shifting that no one 
who enters will ever escape. These days, most of 
these stories are told to keep children from wander- 
ing into the forest alone—but they are far from simply 
children’s tales. 
Gatshadow was transformed into a place of evil 
in the Age of Arcanum. Acek Orattim, a priest of 
the Betrayer 
God known as the Chained Oblivion, 
made the mountain his seat of power. The Oblivion’s 
inexorable might corrupted the mountain, stretching 
its stone-tike putty until it was a jagged needle that 
towered over all other mountains, and etching a 
mind-bending labyrinth of twisting passages into the 
mountain's heart. 
Acek spread the Oblivion’s nihilistic despair across 
the Cliffkeep Mountains and the 
Dividing Plains 
below. All bowed before their influence their minds 
lost to unfathomable contemplation of the end of all 
things. Untold thousands died at the hands of Acek 
and his god, willingly entering Gatshadow—which 
then became their tomb. 
‘The bitter cold of oblivion threatened to consume 
the land, but it was repulsed by the Dawnfather and 
his warriors of light. The Dawnfather struck a telling 
blow against the Oblivion, and doggedly pursued as 
it retreated to Gathsadow. He shackled and banished 
the god of the end within Gatshadow's depths. It was 
said that Acek's mind and spirit were so saturated 
AL'DOREI GAZETTEER 
CHAPTER 
with his master’s essence that the god's banishment 
tore his body asunder. Today, only the empty maze 
of deadly chambers and traps remain beneath the 
mountain, forgotten and awaiting discovery. 
The high bluffs of Gatshadow have in recent years 
been the home of many a villain, most recently 
Umbrasyl the Hope Devourer, the black dragon of 
the Chroma Conclave. Legend says that Gatshadow's 
interior tunnels spiral infinitely downwards, into a 
void of utter darkness. Immortal, white-eyed devo- 
tees of the Oblivion pace endlessly into Gatshadow’s 
tunnels, carrying lightless torches, whispering that 
the secret to freeing their god from the Divine Gate is 
sealed in the depths below. The stone doors that bar 
entrance to Gatshadow’s lowest reaches are sealed 
by magic so great, even the most inquisitive of the 
Arcana Pansophical can't breach them—and it is well 
that they cannot, for who knows what terror would 
be unleashed if they were opened. 
GATSHADOW ADVENTURES. 
Game Masters who set their adventure in Gatshadow 
can use these plot hooks for inspiration. 
Blood of the Dragon (high-level). The body of the 
ancient black dragon Umbrasyl was never recov- 
ered. Some think that's a waste of 
a perfectly good 
business 
opportunity—after all, a black dragon’s 
bones are a potent alchemical reagent, and its scales 
stronger than any steel. 
However, there's a reason no one has dared to 
recover the Hope Devourer's corpse. When Umbra- 
syl died, the caustic acid and magical blood within 
his body seeped through the caverns of Upper 
Gatshadow, devouring stone and transforming the 
mountain's upper levels into a vitriolic maze teeming 
with oozes, half-black dragon warriors, and the rest- 
less spirits of goliaths from the Herd of Storms that 
failed to kill the dragon. 
No Lights in the Darkness (epic-level). The 
Betrayer Gods were banished to their planes of eter- 
nal imprisonment, but something has upset the laws 
of the planes. A being called the Nameless—suppos- 
edly a cultist 
of the Whispered One—has stolen her 
master’s secret knowledge and fled to Gatshadow in 
search of the tortured spirit of Acek Orattim. Agents 
of the Arcana Pansophical have sensed that the 
lower gates of Gatshadow have been breached, and 
frantically call for Tal’Dorei’s greatest heroes to rush 
to the evil mountain. As the characters hurry to the 
bottom of the mind-sundering labyrinth within, they 
discover that they race against not only the new Her- 
ald of Oblivion, but also the Remnants she betrayed. 
95,

--- PAGE 97 ---
JORENN VILLAGE 
Large Village: Population 2,480 (64% humans, 
9% dwarves, 7% halflings, 7% gnomes, 13% 
other races) 
For many years, Jorenn Village was just a tiny pio- 
neer town trying to profit from the shadegrass of the 
Umbra Hills. Over the past century, the village has 
exploded in size and population, after plentiful silver 
veins were discovered within the nearby rocky hills. 
Hardworking common folk and opportunistic pros- 
pectors alike flocked to Jorenn, despite its unsettling 
proximity to the Umbra Hills. Jorenn is far enough 
away from Emon that the influence of the Tal’Dorei 
Council rarely touches 
it, giving opportunists and 
outlaws freedom to subvert and control both the 
village government and the local economy. Thirty 
years ago, a small circle of vigilantes and mercenar- 
ies declared themselves protectors of Jorenn, and 
took the name Shadewatch, hunting and slaying 
creeping dangers in the night and returning to great 
fanfare. Over the past three decades, others seeking 
fame and glory joined the ranks of the Shadewatch, 
and the group ballooned into the unofficial town law 
enforcement. 
‘The Shadewatch is deeply corrupt, and it has been 
almost since its 
first year. The vigilantes personally 
stoke the fires of fear, all while demanding increas- 
ingly galling tribute for their services—and breaking 
kneecaps if they don't get it. Today, the people of 
Jorenn are just as afraid of the Shadewatch as they 
are of the creatures the watch keeps at bay. 
The Shadewatch is a minor organization in the 
grand scheme of things, but Shademaster Arhanna 
Lewyn has grand ambitions. She has sent messages 
to every faction in Tal'Dorei, from the Myriad to the 
League of 
Miracles, 
with an interest 
in cruel subter- 
fuge. It's clear that she’s planning something: every 
night, she consults a ball of polished white quartz, 
and every week she sends a trio of her agents to the 
Umbra Hills—or to the base of Gatshadow. 
JORENN VILLAGE ADVENTURES 
Game Masters who set their adventure in Jorenn 
Village can use this plot hook for inspiration. 
An Offer You Can't Refuse (low-level). The 
characters are attacked by a group of worgs, and 
more just keep coming, Just as they're about to be 
completely overwhelmed, they're saved by a sudden 
volley of black-feathered bolts! Six thugs join the 
battle and “rescue” the characters by driving off 
the remaining worgs. These Shadewatch “officers” 
ask for the characters’ names first, then brusquely 
declare that they like their moxie. They offer the 
characters 
a position in their force back in Jorenn, 
with unbelievable pay: 50 gp a day each. 
If this deal sounds too good to be true, that’s 
because it is: the Shademaster needs strong-willed 
sacrifices if she’s to open the gates of Gatshadow, a 
feat she can accomplish by teleporting up to twelve 
creatures into the depths of the mountain with her 
whispering quartz orb. 
KRAGHAMMER 
City: Population 73,550 (73% dwarves, 8% gnomes, 
5% humans, 14% other races) 
Dozens of dwarven redoubts rose and fell in the 
tunnels beneath the Cliffkeep Mountains during the 
Calamity, and in the uncertain years that followed it. 
Legend holds that a great civilization called Uthtor 
once reigned supreme in the Cliffkeeps, and that all 
of the deep settlements are fragments of Uthtor’s 
glory, fractured by the Calamity. Over the centu- 
ries, these fragments divided and coalesced dozens 
of times until, finally, those who remained came 
together to create Kraghammer. 
Clan Jaggenstrike united thousands of dwarves, 
gnomes, and other dwellers of the deep halls in 
the creation of Kraghammer. Having quietly died 
out centuries ago, the clan now holds a position of 
mythic reverence within the city. Kraghammer’s 
founding was dedicated to the Al-Hammer, divine 
creator of the dwarves and patron of creation and 
ingenuity. This god’s industrious spirit filled the 
people of Kraghammer and blessed them with rich 
veins of platinum, mithral, adamantine, and other 
precious metals that have sustained them since the 
city’s founding. 
An ominous walk of 
a thousand stairs climbs the 
side of the mountain to the gates of the city— carved 
from the mountain itself, just wide enough for two 
dwarves to walk abreast. With the path too steep 
and treacherous for carts or common beasts of 
burden to traverse, traders and trappers use giant 
goats to transport their goods to and from market, 
while wealthy dwarven merchant lords employ serfs 
and laborers to carry their goods. Kraghammer's 
impenetrable adamantine gates stand at the end of 
a perilous bridge overlooking a hundred-foot chasm, 
guarded by three watchtowers carved directly into 
the mountain. 
Within those gates, the massive stronghold is 
made up of three cylindrical levels called “slabs” that 
descend deep beneath the mountains. Kragham- 
mer's granite walls are lit by roaring fires, enchanted 
torches, and shimmering candlerock, which glows 
with internal fire. Even when the evening fires are 
extinguished, the amber light of the Bronzegrip Met- 
alworks at the base of the city bathes Kraghammer 
in its warm glow. 
GOVERNMENT 
Kraghammer law is written by a consortium of 
the five most powerful houses within the city, each 
appointing a delegate to serve on their behalf. That 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 98 ---
tenuous union of houses is kept by the city’s execu- 
tive officer, the Ironkeeper. The Ironkeeper is elected 
by the houses and carries a term of ten years, with 
no term limit, though most Ironkeepers contain their 
rule to three to five terms. 
‘The current sitting Ironkeeper is Palluda of House 
Zuurthom. She rose to prominence advocating for 
the rights of workers in the wake of the Chroma 
Conclave, and is a strong advocate for uniting with 
the Republic of Tal'Dorei to strengthen their might 
against future supernatural threats. 
She is sitting 
comfortably in the midst of her second term and 
enjoys strong support from members of Kragham- 
mer's working class—and staunch opposition from 
traditionalists, who 
cling to the 
city’s fading culture 
of isolationism. 
The laws of the city are enforced by a military 
class of elite warriors called Carvers that act as 
guards, soldiers, and jailers under the guidance of 
the Ironkeeper. Becoming 
a Carver is a lengthy, 
rigorous, and taxing pursuit, and many who choose 
to join fail to complete their 
tr: 
Most who join the Carvers are dwarves from 
families with centuries of 
history within the Carvers. 
This isn’t just because of the pressure to uphold their 
< 
family’s honor, Most hopefuls are 
also those 
who 
CENTERS 
value Kraghammer’s ancient traditions and rigid 
= 
So 
clans with long family histories. Once officially 
named, a Carver is given a homestead built into the 
center slab of the city, a set of immaculate armor and 
weapons, and a steady 
income 
In the years following the defeat of the Chroma 
Conclave, the famously isolationist and xenophobic 
houses conceded to formally make an alliance with 
the Republic of Tal'Dorei. An ambassador from 
Kraghammer now sits on the Tal'Dorei Council, and 
rumors are beginning to circulate within the city that 
the heads of the Great Houses of Kraghammer are 
talks with the Tal’Dorei Council to make Kragham- 
mer an official constituent city-state of the republic. 
ISOLATION OF KRAGHAMMER 
It's not easy being an outsider. Kraghammer has 
long been a city of dwarves, for dwarves, and anyone 
else within the city is an interloper. 
Some tradition- 
alists within the city still think that surface-born 
folk should spend as little time in Kraghammer as 
possible, so as not to dilute the ancient splendor of 
their culture 
Yet times are changing. A coalition of people, 
ranging from dwarves to gnomes 
to traditionally sur- 
face-dwelling people who have made Kraghammer 
their home, have demanded that the Great Houses 
amend the city's most xenophobic laws. Despite 
the angry protestations of the city’s most bigoted 
dwarves, the Great Houses have acquiesced to the 
| order—a set of beliefs largely held by dwarven 
As 
Langnronteens 
CHAPTER 3: TALDOREI GAZETTE 
97

--- PAGE 99 ---
requests of their people. This is due in no smalll part 
to these protestors having the support of the current 
Ironkeeper—Palluda Zuurthrom has long been a 
proponent of Kraghammer entering the Republic 
of Tal'Dorei and ending their centuries of relative 
isolation. 
No non-dwarf has ever served as a delegate of the 
houses, let alone the Ironkeeper. Progress is slow, 
especially in Kraghammer, but it is happening. The 
most despicable of the city’s xenophobes have left of 
their own volition, creating other dwarven settle- 
‘ments throughout the Cliffkeeps where they can keep 
to themselves and “their own kind” 
in peace. 
CRIME 
zens of Emon who visit Kraghammer often 
marvel at how lawful and organized the dwarven 
aE 
is. Crime is 
‘ibly low within Krag] 
mer thanks to the Carvers’ protection, but this peace 
comes at a cost. Crime is low because the courts of 
Kraghammer almost always reach a guilty verdict. 
As a longclived and durable people, most dwarves, 
particularly those with a family reputation to uphold, 
would rather plead guilty and endure years, even 
decades, of hard labor than disturb the fabric of their 
society by fighting conviction. 
Beyond this, corruption is rife within the Carvers, 
and they are able to brutalize even innocent people 
with relative impunity. This corruption is shielded 
from public scrutiny by the vast wealth and political 
influence of House Glorendar, their patron house. 
Because of Glorendar's close ties with the Carvers 
(and the mutual benefits thereof), corruption has 
been hard to uncover within either organization. 
Over twenty years ago, however, a gnomish jour- 
nalist named Ida Mudrake uncovered something 
damning within the vaults of House Glorendar, 
bringing some hope that change may yet move 
steadily forward. She has been forced to flee the city 
and now lives with a security detail in Emon, but she 
‘works tirelessly to bring the crimes of House Glo- 
rendar 
to light. Many in Kraghammer hope that this 
evidence, whatever it is, will shake both Glorendar 
and the Carvers to their foundations. Many more 
fear that even true justice is not worth the chaos that 
bringing Glorendar's misdeeds to light will cause. 
GEOGRAPHY AND CLIMATE 
Though the Cliffkeep Mountains themselves are 
blanketed in thick snow, the bone-piercing chill does 
not extend into Kraghammeer itself, Heat from the 
Bronzegrip Metalworks and the other blast furnaces 
in the Bottom Slab rises and permeates the entire 
city, though the Top Slab still grows cold in the 
winter. The city itself is carved out of the granite core 
of Mount Kraghammer; though the dwarves rarely 
ssee the night sky, the inner walls still sparkle like 
starlight in the amber glow of the furnaces. 
ee 
paca 8 
a 
Top Slab. Also called the Arch, this uppermost 
tier is the entry level of the city, built on a massive 
ring. Like a hub with many spokes, countless neigh- 
borhoods and tunnels spread out from the Top Slab. 
A fine layer of soot tends to coat much of this slab, 
due to imperfect ventilation from the industrious 
center slab; despite this, this level is where most peo- 
ple make their homes, with thousands of stone-built 
abodes dotting the walls, while popular taverns like 
the trendy Firebrook Inn and the historic but austere 
Ironhearth Tavern fill alcoves pushed into the rock. 
For hundreds of years, most non-dwarves within 
Kraghammer were relegated to living in a Top Slab 
neighborhood called the “Otherwalk.” These days, 
non-dwarves live all over the city, and the Otherwalk 
has been renamed the Cavernwalk. It’s still mostly 
inhabited by non-dwarves, and it has a vibrant cul- 
ture all its own. 
As members of the Kraghammer working class, 
“Topslabbers” 
either make the long commute to 
labor in the Bottom Slab or work in the Toppers’ 
farms above the mountain. Others are indentured 
servants to wealthy dwarves in the Middle Slab, and 
only return to their families on the Top Slab on their 
monthly day of rest. 
Center Slab. Also referred to as the Heart, this 
middle tier is the widest and most varied rung on 
the journey through Kraghammer. It is stratified 
between the residences of Kraghammer's old money 
(its long-established noble houses), and the new (the 
wealthy merchant class). At the exact center of the 
slab 
is the Pyrethrone, seat of the Ironkeeper. The 
geometric symbolism of the Pyrethrone being at the 
dead center 
of the city is a fact most visitors to Kra- 
ghammer hear ad nauseum. Radiating out from the 
Pyrethrone are the various fortress-manors of the 
dwarven noble houses, 
with several Carver barracks 
in easy reach. 
Below, the outer rings of the Center Slab are occu- 
pied by most of the city’s non-mining businesses, 
from smithies, breweries, and jewelers, to tailor: 
butchers, and tinkerers like the Cracksackle Union. 
The Hunter's Club is also well known as the chief 
provider for non-imported meats to the city, sending 
parties into the mountains or the nearby Torian 
Forest for wild game. The extravagant marble temple 
known as All-Hammer's Will stands on the center 
slab of the city, the grandest of all shrines to the most 
worshipped deity under the mountain. Enormous 
in size and impeccable in both detail and architec- 
tural design, this hall calls to artisans and crafters 
throughout the city for inspiration. 
Of the five noble houses, only two conduct their 
affairs entirely in the Center Slab. The magically 
talented Lord Steddos Thunderbrand and his family 
are known to rarely leave their mansion, except on. 
business with the Ironkeeper. Wallera Glorendar 
used to oversee the combat training of all Carvers 
Se 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 100 ---
within Kraghammer, but hasn't been seen in public 
for twenty years. Her daughter, Kazya, runs all her 
affairs within the public eye. 
Bottom Slab. Best known as the Pit, this tier is 
the industrious powerhouse of Kraghammer, boast- 
ing the most forges per square mile of any location 
in Tal'Dorei, courtesy of the Bronzegrip Metal- 
works and their competitors. Most of these forges 
are potent, highly industrialized, and mechanized 
blast furnaces. The expansive Keenstone Quarry is 
chief among the numerous 
\g operations that 
have tunneled through the depths of the moun- 
tains—depths whose true dangers are obscured 
by centuries of legend, and therefore not fully 
understood. 
A network of fungus-farming paths called the 
Glowgrove works its way around this level, passing 
through all sorts of caverns. The mushrooms are 
harvested by the Toppers, the dwarven agricultural 
league that got their name from the small topside 
farms they tend above the city. 
Three of the five dwarven houses have business 
interests in the Bottom Slab, though they direct its 
operations from the next tier up. Nostoc Greyspine 
is the grim overseer of Keenstone Quarry. Haddi 
Bronzegrip is the foredwarf of the Bronzegrip 
Metalworks; she claims to be the wealthiest dwarf 
in the North, a cl 
no one has ever been able 
to successfully dispute. Blenton Zuurthom is an 
architectural savant, and one of the older and kinder 
nobledwarves; he tries his best to oversee every 
major construction project in the Bottom Stab. 
POINTS OF INTEREST 
Kraghammer has a number of famous landmarks, 
as well as a few mythic locations said to exist 
in the 
caverns beneath the city, as depicted on its 
map. 
The Starshrine (Top Slab). Most dwarves 
worship the All-Hammer, and his teachings of 
community and ancestral piety have been all but 
completely subsumed into Kraghammer's cul- 
ture at large. For outlanders with different faiths, 
however, the monolithic religious culture can feel 
inescapable. Shrines to all the Prime Deities have 
spread throughout Kraghammer since the fall of the 
Chroma Conclave, but the Starshrine was the first. 
When the world trembled at the might of Thordak 
the Cinder King, tremors rocked the upper layers of 
Kraghammer, causing certain caverns to collapse— 
and in some cases, to reveal places of great beauty. 
The Starshrine is a vast grotto whose granite walls 
mysteriously sparkle with a perfect replica of the 
stars in the night sky. It can be found within 
the Top 
Slab’s culturally diverse Cavernwalk district. Once 
per year, when a character prays to one of the Prime 
Deities here, there is a 1% chance per character level 
that their prayer is answered, as the cleric’s Divine 
Intervention class feature. 
CHAPTER 3: TALDOREI GAZETTEER

--- PAGE 101 ---
100 
Cracksackle Guildhall (Middle Slab). The 
headquarters of the Cracksackle Union looks unlike 
anything in Kraghammer. It's made of a dozen 
glistening steel domes, like sleek, metal igloos, and 
the light of unusual experiments flicker through its 
slitted windows at ali hours of the night. Most within 
Kraghammer consider the building an eyesore, but 
all interested in technological tinkering and ingenu- 
y love it for its uniqueness. If nothing else, it plainly 
displays the oftbafiling ingenuity of its tinkerers. 
The Cracksackle Union was founded by gnomish 
refugees from Wittebak nearly four hundred years 
ago. While intrinsically tied to the Bronzegrip Metal- 
works for resources, contacts, and distribution, the 
Gi 
ers have made themselves indispens 
to the dwarven elite with their inventive contribu- 
tions to mining and masonry technology. 
‘On any working day, a dozen tinkerers, many of 
them gnomes, will set up shop in the courtyard, 
selling strange and untested devices they have made 
in their workshops. The GM determines which 
non-magical curiosities can be purchased here, but 
some include: 
CRACKSACKLE WARES 
Item 
Cost 
Description 
100 gp This bundle of explosives can 
be lit and thrown up to 30 feet 
as an action. It explodes at the 
start of your next turn. Creatures 
and objects within 20 feet of it 
must make a DC 12 Dexterity 
saving throw, taking 66 fire 
damage on a failed save, or 
half as much damage on a suc- 
cessful one, 
Dynamite 
Giuebomb 50gp This unique explosive can be 
primed and thrown up to 30 
feet as an action. It 
explodes 
on 
Keenstone Quarry (Bottom Slab). Despite all of 
Kraghammer's wondrous crafts and goods, its most 
significant export is raw stone—most of which is 
excavated from Keenstone Quarry, making the quar- 
ry's overseer, Nostoc Greyspine, a very rich dwarf 
indeed. As the legend of Vox Machina spread across 
Tal Dorei, Overseer Greyspine got an 
idea: open 
the quarry to adventurers. Vox Machina famously 
entered the vast network of dangerous tunnels 
beneath Kraghammer from a fissure at the depths of 
the quarry, and countless imitators have tried to fol- 
low in their footsteps—some emerging with fabulous 
treasure, but most never returning at all. 
To take advantage of this opportunity, Greyspine 
has advertised the quarry far and wide as the “Gate- 
way to the Depths,” and posted an entrance fee of 25 
gp per adventurer. Of course, neither Greyspine nor 
the staff 
of the quarry bears any liability for death, 
dismemberment, or emotional trauma sustained 
with the depths. 
Hall of Burning Mushrooms. The Bronzegrip 
Metalworks 
just carved deeper into the mountain 
to expand their furnaces, only to discover the most 
magnificent cavern: a mile-wide cave filled with 
bioluminescent purple mushrooms. Industry had 
to move in, and the Bronzegrips hired Wyrmhide 
Thunderbrand and his pyromancer brigade to torch 
the cavern. The mushrooms never stopped burning, 
and the myconoids that lived in the fungal forest 
never stopped fighting. Characters known within 
Kraghammer may be requested by House Bronze- 
grip or Thunderbrand to cut through the inferno and. 
destroy the myconoid monarch. 
EMBERHOLD 
City: Population 21,180 (73% dwarves, 15% elves, 
129 other races) 
impact. Creatures within 20 feet 
of it must make a DC 12 Dexter- 
ity saving throw or be restrained 
for 1 minute. A restrained crea- 
ture can make a DC 12 Strength 
check as an action, escaping on 
a success, 
Stinkbomb 25 gp 
This smelly explosive can be 
primed and thrown up to 30 feet 
‘as an action. It explodes at the 
start of your next turn. Creatures 
within 20 feet of it must make a 
DC 12 Constitution saving throw 
or be poisoned for 1 minute. A 
creature can repeat this save 
at the end of each of its turns, 
ending the effect on itself on 
a success. 
Ap 
from the Keenstone 
Quarry in Kragham- 
mer leads below the earth, Deep. Deeper. Until 
the light of day is entirely gone, and then deeper 
still. Across chasms miles-deep and full of magma, 
beneath great hanging gardens of glowing mala- 
chite, lies the Emberhold. It stares imperiously over 
an underground kingdom of the duergar, dwarves 
who long ago broke away from the rule of the Great 
Houses of Kraghammer. 
Millennia of fear and superstition have turned the 
dwarves of Kraghammer into bitter, fearful enemies 
of their estranged kin. Untold dozens of duergar vi 
lages span the glassy lava-plains that the Emberhold 
is built upon, with mighty armies constantly coming 
and going, sometimes returning with just a few 
bloody survivors, other times returning with captives 
in chains—and other times returning not at all. 
‘The dwarves of the Emberhold rarely rise to the 
surface; they have lived so long in the darkest depths 
of the earth that the light of the sun sears their eyes 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 102 ---
and prickles their skin. Few ever arise even to Kra- 
ghammer, for they are taught that only death awaits 
them there. Nevertheless, many duergar doubt the 
narrative that has been fed to them 
since birth, and 
make attempts to escape to the surface. Those duer- 
gar that have left the ways of the Emberhold behind 
and learned of the outside world have remarked how 
unbelievable it is that their people were so misled by 
lies about the barbaric cruelty of surface-dwellers. 
GOVERNMENT 
‘The Emberhold and the towns that serve as its vas- 
sals are ruled by an absolute monarch. The current 
King of Embers is the wrathful King Thangrul II. 
He rules through fear and conquest, spreading his 
armies to the farthest corners of Tal'Dorei’s under- 
ground caverns in the name of the Crawling King. 
‘Thangrul's rule is supported by a contingent of 
dark elves from their decadent, alien domain of 
Ruhn-Shak. Most in Thangrul’s court know well 
enough to mistrust these ambassadors of the far- 
flung caverns, for their minds have been twisted by 
the influence of not just the Spider Queen, but also 
the aberrations with whom they have made strange 
alliances in order to sustain their power. Thangrul 
himself cares little for his advisors’ mistrust of his 
elven allies and openly declares that he will make 
use of them as longs they are useful 
Vox Machina’s assault of the Emberhold over 
twenty years ago cost the duergar their king and 
queen, but rumors of a lost princess of Ember 
have begun to circulate through the realm, and the 
survivors of Vox Machina's raid have rebuilt their 
hierarchy and continued their endless war of con- 
quest throughout the depths. 
GEOGRAPHY 
The Emberhold itself is a fortress built of black 
stone and obsidian, framed by rivers of molten rock. 
and surrounded by a massive city of ramshackle 
dwellings and towers that mark the boundaries of its 
peoples’ domain. 
EMBERHOLD ADVENTURES 
Game Masters who set their adventure in the Ember- 
hold can use this plot hook for inspiration. 
The Lost Heir (mid-level). King Murghol of 
the Emberhold was killed in combat by Scanlan 
Shorthalt, gnome bard of Vox Machina, and his 
wife, Queen Ulara, was slain by the aberrant tyrant 
K’Varn. All of the Emberhold knows that the King 
and Queen had a young daughter—only six years old 
at the time of their death—-but none seem interested 
in seeking Emberhold’s missing heir. The new king, 
Thangrul II, grows particularly fiery whenever any- 
‘one mentions her name in his presence. 
CHAPTER 3: TALDOREI GAZETTEER 
YUG’VORIL 
Where the dwarves of Kraghammer whisper fearful 
words of the duergar, so too do the duergar whisper 
of Yug’Voril. Beneath the deep dwarves’ fiery king- 
dom, ever deeper into the heart of Exandria, there is 
a miles-wide grotto coated in glowing crystal. A lake 
fills the grotto, its surface so smooth and placid it 
seems like a jade mirror, perfectly reflecting the light 
of the crystals around 
it. In the middle of the lake is 
an island, atop which loom the grand, austere towers 
of Yug’Voril. 
The clean lines and beautiful facade of the city 
belie its current, abominable denizens. 
Thousands of years old, the builders and previous 
‘occupants have long vanished, leaving the unspoiled 
ruins to become home to a host of psychic, mind-eat- 
ing creatures from a plane beyond the bounda: 
of reality. The tyrannical society of these 
alien crea- 
tures flourishes here, far from their cosmic pursuers, 
giving them the freedom to build a legion of thralls: 
mind-slaves whose delicious brains are allowed to 
remain in their bodies...until those bodies fall apart 
from 
Yug'Voril and its inhabitants fell recently under the 
control of the extraplanar aberration called K’Varn, 
before he was slain by Vox Machina. Now that the 
alien mind-eaters have been freed from K’Varn’s 
tyranny, they have reclaimed Yug’Voril as their own 
and have continued work on their strange and ter- 
rible plots. 
YUG’VORIL ADVENTURES 
Game Masters who set their adventure in Yug'Voril 
can use this plot hook for inspiration. 
A Mind Is a Terrible Thing to Waste (high-level). 
Four of the foremost minds at Emon’s Alabaster 
Lyceum have disappeared without a trace. All 
vanished on the same night, and there have been no 
confirmed sightings since. Investigations have been 
underway for several months, and some dwarves of 
Kraghammer have recently reported seeing four fig- 
ures that could be the missing scholars entering the 
lower passages of the Keenstone Mine under cover 
of night. 
Something has mentally dominated these schol- 
ars, The alien inhabitants of Yug’Voril hunger for a 
specific morsel of powerful knowledge within their 
brilliant minds. 
LYRENGORN, THE 
ELVENPEAKS 
Town: Population 5,430 (93% elves, 3% dwarves, 
2% humans, 2% other races) 
Every year, dozens of travelers from across Tal'Dorei 
travel past the far northern reaches of the Cliffkeep 
Mountains to see the Moonweaver's Ribbons twist

--- PAGE 103 ---
102 
around the Elvenpeaks, pulled through the sky by 
those mysterious figures on wyvernback. The Elven- 
peaks are a single mountain split perfectly in the 
center, with ice-sheeted forests topping both peaks. 
While the exterior of these forest canopies appears 
frozen and without life, the interior is instead a warm 
and humid wood, blooming with flowers of all colors 
and roamed by living plants and wild game. In the 
boughs of these thick tropical trees also lives a soci- 
ety of wood elves, some of those wild folk who broke 
away from Yenlara’s pact and the city of Syngorn. 
Their city of Lyrengorn—lyren 
orn literally meaning 
“mountain city” in Elvish — is the last bastion of 
safety before crossing into the endless ice of the 
Neverfields to the north. 
These lyren‘alfen—high elves’—call themselves 
friends of none and enemies of fewer; they welcome 
all who manage to make it to their home, provided 
they come in peace, and take no sides in any conflict. 
In ages past, they were highly sought-after as merce- 
naries because their warriors had learned the rare 
art of wyvern riding. When Warren Drassig’s legions 
marched to conquer Tal'Dorei, the elves of Lyren- 
gorn refused to die for anyone else's war, retreating 
instead to their mountaintops and lush forests. 
rarer 
Today, few of the lyren‘alfen are actually warriors, 
though many among them are hunters. In the inter- 
vening centuries, wyvern riding has transformed 
from a martial art into a ceremonial one; great 
athletes called skyswimmers train year-round for 
the annual coming of the Moonweaver's Ribbons, 
great streaks of mutlicolored light that illuminate the 
northern sky on the winter solstice. The skyswim- 
mers and their wyvern mounts seize the strands of 
light on their spears and paint radiant, esoteric por- 
traits in the wintry sky, drawing intrepid outsiders 
from across Tal'Dorei to camp on remote mountains 
and marvel at their visual poetry. 
Beyond the ceremony's artistic merit, it's also a rit- 
ual to the goddess known as the Moonweaver, chief 
deity of these elves. The high priestess of the moon 
claims that the annual rite purifies Lyrengorn and 
gives the wild elves long life. 
LYRENGORN ADVENTURES 
Game Masters who set their adventure in Lyrengorn 
can use these plot hooks for inspiration. 
The Impossible Art (low-level). While traveling 
through the Cliffkeep Mountains, the cold becomes 
too much for the characters to bear, and they pass 
out in the snow. When they awaken, they find 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 104 ---
themselves being tended to by a trio of Lyrengorn 
wyvern riders, but their roles are suddenly reversed 
when a massive band of raiders, most of them 
goblins and human thugs, pincushions the riders in 
mid-flight. When the characters crash in the snow: 
fields, they find their saviors dead, and must try to 
learn the impossible art of wyvern riding before they 
are claimed by the blizzard. 
The Incorruptible Light (high-level). While the 
characters are in Lyrengorn, they discover a small 
community of dark elf refugees. They fled here from 
a monstrous, nameless source of aberrant corruption 
that has been devouring their society for centuries. 
‘The dark elves hope that the skyswimmers’ cere- 
mony will cleanse them of the corruption and fits of 
sadistic cruelty that still plague them from their days 
under the abberrations’ terrible thrall 
‘Strange accidents conspire to kill the skyswim- 
mers and the priestesses, and on the day of the 
solstice, a pair of many-eyed aberrations rise from 
the depths of the earth and try to bend the Moon- 
weaver's Ribbons to their evil purposes. 
THE NEVERFIELDS 
The farther north one goes into the Cliffkeep Moun- 
tains, the taller the peaks grow and the colder the 
weather becomes, until the snowstorms are so thick 
that no human unprepared for their chill 
can survive. 
The spiky peaks grow shallow, trading treacher- 
‘ous rock for glacial ice and the untempered fury of 
endless blizzards. No bastions of living society exist 
this far north, though some brave, foolish warriors 
endure the elements here to hunt rare and powerful 
game or to seek lost relics from before the Calamity. 
Legends tell of 
a time when this region was green 
and temperate, when trees and joyous elven enclaves 
covered the land. Moreover, these tales say that 
relics of this elysian era are still buried deep beneath 
the icy wastes. Many that go seeking answers to 
these rumors never return. The few that do, however, 
occasionally emerge with artifacts of intense power 
and mystery, reigniting interest in the region and 
sending further generations to their doom among the 
ancient, ice-rimed ruins and plains of endless glacial 
wasteland. 
NEVERFIELDS ADVENTURES 
Game Masters who set their adventure in the Never- 
fields can use this plot hook for inspiration. 
Seed of Life (mid-level). Heroes of Tal’Dorei 
who have made themselves known to Syngorn may 
suddenly find themselves contacted by Verdant Lord 
Celindar, leader of Syngorn’s armies. His report is 
grim: 
the warding trees of the Verdant Expanse no 
longer protect the city; in fact, some have turned 
against it. The treants that once defended the elves 
have grown pale and sickly, and are now attacking 
CHAPTER 3: TAL’DOREI GAZETTEER 
the elvenguard. Celindar beseeches the characters 
to meet with his counterpart in Lyrengorn, Skyblade 
Hali Instralidar, who has been surveying the ice 
fields of the north for centuries. Why? Because elven 
legend speaks of the Seed of Life, the last bloom of 
an ancient treant named Cedargaunt, which may 
restore the withered treants’ senses. The Seed of 
Life is worn on the neck 
of a frost giant jar!’s pet 
remorhaz within the Neverfields. 
OTHENDIN PASS 
This massive valley carved into the southwest sec- 
tion of the Cliffkeep Mountains was, in ancient times, 
the territory of stone giant clans that warred with the 
dwarves of Kraghammer. After the arrival of human- 
ity on Tal'Dorei's shores, the people of Kraghammer 
and the new settlers of O’Noa banded together and 
pushed deep into the mineraL-rich valley. 
The stone giants fought back, but they were over- 
whelmed by the might of their combined foe. They 
retreated to their caves higher into the mountains to 
the northeast, and have rarely been seen by human- 
ids in the centuries since. This allowed the forces 
of Emon to claim the resources and land of the 
Othendin Pass for its people, establishing Fort Daxio 
to defend it. 
However, the population of deadly landsharks— 
creatures called bulettes—native to the region has 
been on the rise. Some say it’s because the giants 
who hunted them were driven away, but since the 
giants have been gone for a century, few can under- 
stand why the landsharks are only taking over now. 
The miners, gatherers, and passing travelers do their 
best to cull the bulette population both on their own 
and with the help of hired adventurers, but they can 
only ever hope to keep the deadly monsters at bay. 
OTHENDIN PASS ADVENTURES 
Game Masters who set their adventure in Othendin 
Pass can use this plot hook for inspiration. 
Bite the Bulette (mid-level). A druidic order 
called the Stoneherders, made up mostly of stone 
giants and goliaths, have taken up residence in an 
important choke point of the Othendin Pass. They 
claim that they are the Stoneherders, a great druidic 
order that keeps the balance between 
civilization 
and nature in the north. Fort Daxio’s military 
presence in the pass has kept them away for several 
generations, but an unusual rise in the bulette popu- 
lation has forced them to return. 
The Stoneherders' plan to thin the bulette herd 
requires the characters’ aid in rounding up the 
deadly creatures; once they have been assembled, 
the Stoneherders 
will tame as many as they can 
and move them elsewhere in the Cliffkeep Moun- 
tains. Those that can't be tamed will be relocated 
to other parts of the mountains, where they can be 
_hunted again.

--- PAGE 105 ---
PALACE OF WONDER 
In the desolate and uninhabited northwestern 
reaches of the Cliffkeep Mountains stands a ruined 
citadel. All that remains of it are crumbling walls, 
half-beaten to dust by the unrelenting winds of 
the mountains, and one forlorn tower, its turret 
torn asunder to reveal the mildewed, rain-fattened 
‘wooden beams within, This ruin, a relic of the early 
days of Issylran settlement and a panoply of forgotten 
‘wars, is all but forgotten by the people of Tal'Dorei. 
Few explorers travel these wind-scarred peaks, or 
the storm-beaten northwestern coast of Tal'Dorei. 
The citadel itself 
is wracked by the elements, while 
the shoreline and the mountains beyond it are 
prowled by territorial elementals that brook no 
intrusions. 
SECRETS OF THE CITADEL 
The ruined citadel that overlooks this treacherous 
landscape is far more than meets the eye. In truth, 
itis the headquarters of the League of Miracles (see 
page 56). The power-hungry spellwrights who 
make up the league’s upper echelons call this castle 
the Palace of Wonder. A crumbling but entirely 
illusory edifice has replaced the derelict fortress, 
maintained by the league to deter curiosity and 
avoid notice. 
Beneath this arcane facade, the Palace of Wonder 
truly lives up to its name. The palace is made up of 
five wings, each of which has a dedicated teleporta- 
tion circle: 
Halls of Splendor. The League of Miracles is 
in the business of good first impressions. Though 
the Palace of Wonder is a secret to the people of 
Tal'Dorei, the spellwrights occasionally teleport par- 
ticularly powerful mercenary mages to their home 
base in order to dazzle them with the castle’s splen- 
dors. The palace’s ground floor is made of 
a number 
of interconnected grand halls, awash in a tide of 
splendid, vibrant colors—bordering on garish—that 
crashes over all who enter. 
These many grand dining, entertaining, and 
performance halls are gleaming spectacles of white 
marble, decorated by sparkling globes of magical 
light, and festooned with self-indulgent tapestries of 
the spellwrights’ many dubious achievements. Any 
intruders here without the express permission of 
at least one spellwright will find themselves beset 
by a small army of animated armors and other con- 
structs—including 
a platinum golem (see page 239) 
that watches over the front entrance. 
Bowers of Recovery. The second floor of the 
palace is a verdant paradise, with vibrant plants 
curling around the castle’s stately stone architecture. 
Most spellwrights have their quarters in this wing, 
which is protected by powerful enchantments that 
give life to the plants, All who enter here without a 
spellwright escort are viewed by the living plants as 
a tasty snack. 
This wing of the palace also includes a three-tiered 
conference chamber where all twenty-four spell- 
wrights can gather to discuss matters of import. In 
the center of the chamber is a pedestal, upon which 
sits a humanoid mask of gleaming mithral. When 
the Wonderworker, the league's mysterious leader, 
wishes to deliver a proclamation to the spellwrights, 
their voice emanates from this mask. 
Towers of Farsight. The pinnacle of the palace 
is made up of four sky-scraping towers that gaze out 
over the Cliftkeep Mountains—and all of Exandria. 
These private studies are the personal quarters of 
four of the league's chief spellwrights, and they are 
equipped with all manner of scrying crystals and 
tools of clairvoyance, clairaudience, and far-speech. 
Dungeons of Despair. Woe betide the prison- 
ers of the League of Miracles, who are left to rot in 
the cells beneath their palace. The warden of this 
dungeon is an infallible mage hunter golem (see page 
239), and each cell is equipped with shackles that 
inhibit the spellcasting capabilities of anyone in their 
grasp. Instruments of unspeakable arcane torture 
litter these dungeons, capable of instilling endless 
pain, and even extracting the very soul from one’s 
body. The shackled spirits of those who have died by 
this last vile torment serve eternally as the guardians 
of the palace dungeons. 
Cradle of the Adranach. Winding about the 
palace dungeons are a network of twisting passages 
illuminated by glaring, magical 
lights. These forking 
tunnels shift daily, and the secret to navigating 
them is a mark visible only under the power of 
a true seeing spell. Within these passages are a 
dozen laboratories stocked with the tools needed 
for the spellwrights to dream up new potions and 
spells. Some they sell at extravagant cost to the 
governments and militias of towns and cities across 
Tal'Dorei—but the best they keep for themselves, to 
wield against the factions they manipulate from the 
shadows, should they ever grow unruly. 
At the deepest point 
of the tunnels is the Cradle 
of the Adranach, a unique arcane laboratory where 
all spellwrights are 
initiated. Here, they craft an 
adranach (see page 223), a construct of mithral and 
astral energy that serves as a loyal servant—and that 
unmistakably marks its creator as a spellwright of 
the League of Miracles. 
GATHERING THE SPELLWRIGHTS 
The Palace of Wonder 
is almost never empty, for at 
least one of its twenty-four spellwrights must always 
remain within its walls to protect it. Many more 
spellwrights frequently return by means of the pal- 
ace’s teleportation circles, or upon the back of their 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 106 ---
perSonal adranaichs, to take advantage of its magical 
‘equipment and nigh-impenetrable defenses. 
At times, all spellwrights are requested to return 
to the palace at the behest of one of the four chief 
spellwrights, but unless one’s presence is demanded 
by name, these summons are not mandatory. The 
‘one summon which cannot be refused, however, 
is the annual calling of the Wonderworker. The 
nameless, faceless leader of the League of Miracles 
holds a near-prophetic sway over the spellwrights 
that cannot be understated. When all twenty-four 
spellwrights are gathered within the conference 
chamber, the Wonderworker intones a slew of eryptic 
yet unquestionable commandments that all of their 
followers must interpret and obey to the best of 
their ability. 
POOLS OF WITTEBAK 
Wittebak was once a peaceful city of three thousand 
or more rock gnomes, a safe haven for the small ones 
that was built into the mountain rock and heated by 
a series of geothermal pools. The Wittebak gnomes 
weathered great wars by not getting 
involved, invest- 
ing in contraptions and laughter rather than wars 
and empires. They found joy in inventing compli- 
cated ways to simplify their daily lives. Yet, for all 
their efforts, trouble eventually came to them 
Around four hundred years ago, a displaced band 
of hill giants found and luxuriated within Wittebak’s 
hot springs and made a homestead on their banks. 
It is said that Wittebak was founded underneath the 
full light of Ruidus, for by pure misfortune, a flaw in 
the stonework of the gnomish city cracked under the 
force of the giants frolicking within the pools. Worse 
still, the cave-in did more than simply crush a few 
buildings beneath. The seismic force of thousands 
of tons of rock collapsed 
into the caverns, cracking 
open buried pockets of volcanic gas. 
Over a thousand gnomes suffocated that night, 
or were incinerated in isolated gas explosions. The 
survivors fled into the mountains, assailed by hungry 
giants as they ran. The gnomes have found unlikely 
refuge in Kraghammer, but Wittebak has been aban- 
doned entirely, choked by caustic gas and locked ina 
terrible moment in time. The ten-times great-grand- 
children of the giants that caused the gnomes to flee 
now call the hot springs their ancestral home. To 
them, it is named Gundergrunch, and they flourish 
within their unchallenged territory. 
Beneath them, the ruins of Wittebak are stratified 
into three distinct tiers of death and despair. 
Tinkerer’s Tier. This level is relatively unharmed, 
and the full glory of Wittebak’s tinkering shops 
can be seen here; some even include marvels of 
technology unseen for centuries. Creatures that 
need to breathe can survive the gases in the wid- 
est, uppermost level for a number of hours equal 
AL’DOREI GAZETTEER 
CHAPTER 3 
to their Constitution modifier, and take 3 (1d6) 
poison damage each minute after that time. The 
hill giants that live within have adapted to the gas 
and do not fear it. 
Homesteads. The air in the middle level is heavy 
with gas, and the quaint gnomish homes on this 
level are filled with the decomposed remains of 
those too slow to escape. The entire area is lightly 
obscured with clouds of gas, and tiny streams of 
hot water leak from the walls, tumbling into the 
level below. 
Engine Core. The bottommost tier is a mechanical 
marvel, a titanic wheel of rusted iron and shining 
steel with no known purpose. This level is com- 
pletely flooded and filled with merrow. Itis also 
the lair of 
a sea hag named Mauvletti 
POOLS OF WITTEBAK ADVENTURES 
Game Masters who set their adventure in Wittebak 
can use these plot hooks for inspiration. 
Getting into Gundergrunch (mid-level). Just 
getting into Wittebak is an adventure unto itself. 
It’s nearly impossible to fight through the hundreds 
of hill giants in the hot springs and the Tinkerer's 
‘Tier—and even if it weren't, such a fight would be 
a callous slaughter of countless innocents. Stealth 
is an option, for the giants take little heed of folk 
smaller than them. Diplomacy is another option; 
Gondalorr, prince of the giants, has a tender heart 
and loves the idea of repatriating Wittebak’s gnomes. 
His sister Gondabrau, on the other hand, is cruel, 
and would like nothing more than to pop wriggling 
gnomes into her mouth as a snack. Cunning adven- 
turers could sneak in with Gondalorr’s aid, or even 
cause chaos in the giant town by playing the siblings 
against each other. 
The Truth of the Disaster (mid-level). Was it 
truly just by chance that Wittebak was destroyed? 
Perhaps there is truth to the rumors that Ruidus, the 
Moon of Il Omen, shone brightly above Wittebak 
on the night of its founding. The merrow that lurk 
in the Engine Core know nothing, but the sea hag 
who lairs there has an inkling. Delve deeper, and the 
aboleth and its aberrant servitors know more still—a 
secret that dates back to the Founding itself. 
REACHING BLUFF 
Village: 
Population 324 (63% humans, 27% 
dwarves, 3% dark elves, 3% earth elemental 
ancestry, 14% other races) 
Ina small, fertile valley in the northwest of the 
Cliffkeep Mountains is a small village founded by 
Tal'Dorei homesteaders just ten years ago. This sim- 
ple settlement is inhabited by hardy folk seeking new 
places to mine gold and iron from the earth. Many 
unpleasant exiles from Kraghammer have joined 
105

--- PAGE 107 ---
them, so while this village has a charming, rustic 
atmosphere, few travelers stay for long. The hostility 
toward outsiders is palpable to all. 
This insular attitude has only grown more hostile 
following the discovery of a gleaming dodecahedron 
about the size of a human head. One of the miners 
who unearthed it found that her pickaxe barely 
scratched its surface—and when struck, it began 
‘emanating a radiant, internal golden glow. This 
mystical object was returned to the village foredwarf, 
and before the day was out, all the villagers had 
learned of it. The people of Reaching Bluff call it the 
Lost Beacon of Unknown Light (see page 41), and 
worship it asa god. 
The settlers protect their mysterious beacon 
with cultish fervor, and Foredwarf Daz, a deceitful 
dwarf veteran with earth elemental ancestry, is 
1g to murder anyone who tries to probe into 
their business. 
SERPENT’S HEAD 
Thordak only flew to the Cliffkeep Mountains once 
during his occupation of Emon. No one living knows 
why the nearly 
invincible Cinder King left his prized 
city to attack a single, isolated mountaintop village, 
but the ruins of Serpent’s Head prove that he did. 
Serpent's Head is a squat mountain in the south- 
ern reaches of the Cliffkeep Mountains. 
Its people 
were mostly dwarves and humans, miners and 
farmers. They had no militia to speak of, and most 
had already evacuated to Kraghammer when news of 
Emon’s fall reached them—but not everyone. 
‘The village that surrounds Serpent's Head Moun- 
tain is an ashen ruin. 
The immolated corpses of its 
people still lay buried beneath a thick layer of ash, 
and the mountain itself was transformed into a small 
volcano by Thordak’s magic. 
SERPENT’S HEAD ADVENTURES 
Game Masters who set their adventure in Serpent's 
Head can use this plot hook for inspiration. 
Factions of Flame (any level). Characters who 
wish to plumb the depths of Serpent's Head for 
treasure—or perhaps to find an item or character 
connected to the greater story of your campaign— 
must contend with the creatures that have made 
it their home. Mindless cinderslag elementals 
(Gee page 231) prowl the shattered battlements 
Of the fortress that once stood atop the mountain. 
Earth tremors have cracked the keep’s foundation, 
revealing deep magma caverns filled with dia- 
monds—precious and infused with chaotic 
magic. 
Occasionally, tiny rifis to the Elemental Plane of Fire 
flash open within the depths, allowing groups of azer 
and salamanders to wriggle through. The two fac- 
tions have made camp in the lower caverns, and both 
struggle for a foothold in the Material Plane. 
Hot-Headed Wanderers (high-level). The Cinder 
King’s incursion into Tal'Dorei attracted elementally 
infused monsters from deep beneath the Clifikeep 
Mountains to the surface. 
Mag 
Gee 
page 247) and their young are the worst of these 
monsters, and even decades after the Cinder King’s 
defeat, they continue to prowl the mountains from 
their nests beneath Serpent's Head, devouring entire 
villages unless brave adventurers stand in their way. 
TERRAH 
Village: Population 838 (61% humans, 19% dwarves, 
5% gnomes, 15% other races) 
Sheltered within a cauldron-like 
valley, miles deep 
into the northern mountain 
range, lies the home of 
the Earth Ashari. The people of Terrah have long 
stood watch over the exposed rift to the Elemental 
Plane of Earth, protecting the ever-quaking ground 
of this crumbling valley. Those without druidic 
power dig long trenches around their village to 
protect their people against rockslides that roll off 
the mountains, while a handful of mighty druids use 
their magic to reshape the valley and rebuild dam- 
Living off hunted game and scavenged fungi, the 
Terrah people are stocky warriors of stubborn mind 
and immense pride and loyalty. Jewelry made of 
precious gemstones is regarded as a sign of station 
and respect. The Earth Ashari supply Emon with 
precious and semi-precious stones from the rift in 
exchange for essential goods and, occasionally, pro- 
tection from the creatures of the mountains. 
The peaks that surround the rift frequently seem 
to shake with rage, and from their angry slopes rise 
creatures 
of living stone, imbued with life by elemen- 
tal spirits from the rift. The people of Terrah sleep 
in shifts to keep watch for any sudden changes in 
seismic activity, lest the fury of the mountains undo 
all that the Ashari have created. 
GOVERNMENT 
Terrah is governed by an Ashari archdruid given 
the honored title of Heart of the Mountain. This 
archdruid has completed their Aramente (see page 
49) and earned the respect of the four elemental 
enclaves of the Ashari. Paltice, the current Heart of 
the Mountain, is a human man well over one hun- 
dred years old. Though tenacious and ornery, he is a 
venerable warrior with boundless appreciation and 
support for those who prove themselves honorable 
and selfreliant. Rumor has it that Pa'tice is seeking 
aworthy druid who can undertake the Aramente and 
succeed him as Heart of the Mountain. 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 108 ---
TERRAH ADVENTURES 
Game Masters who set their adventure in Terrah can 
use these plot hooks for inspiration. 
Pestering Pa'tice (any level). Rumor has spread 
throughout the Cliffkeeps that the Earth Ashari are 
seeking a new Heart 
of the Mountain. In response, 
dozens of upstart druids with delusions of gran- 
deur have flocked to Terrah, seeking to impress the 
current leader of the Earth Ashari. Pa'tice can’t be 
bothered with this pageantry, and quietly hires a 
group of adventurers—the characters—to 
disperse 
these druids. 
If there is a druid in the party, perhaps 
their actions will impress the Heart of the Mountain 
and set them on the path of the Aramente. 
Dependable as Stone (high-level). The Terrah 
people are insular and dutiful, and rarely take sides 
in any conflict. However, sometimes times of great 
peril require that even the Ashari go to war. What- 
ever the conflict, the characters must convince the 
Terrah to join their cause. Pa'tice meets with them 
and grimly states that the Terrah cannot aid them 
because a terrible new threat has come through 
the portal. The Stonesight Council, four medusas 
aided by two gorgons, now command the earth 
elementals descending from the peaks around 
Terrah. Pa'tice is a practical leader—he cannot lead 
his people to fight a threat to the outside world while 
danger lurks on their doorstep. “Eliminate this threat 
to Terrah,” Pa'tice says, “and perhaps we can join 
your cause. 
UMBRA HILLS 
The Battle of the Umbra Hills, the climactic battle of 
the Scattered War and the death knell of the King- 
dom of Drassig, 
transformed the floral, sun-dappled 
Emerald Highlands into 
a blasted wasteland. A 
tide of demonic blood spilled across the highlands 
like fire, cursing the land forever. Generations have 
passed, but the heather that once grew on these hills 
is as black and burnt as the day of the battle. No ani- 
mals live here, and the only plant that grows in the 
Umbra Hills now is shadegrass. Its ash-gray stalks 
are dry and unfilling, but its 
unique, acrid flavor has 
drawn the interest of spice traders worldwide, pro- 
pelling wealthy merchants to hire armed escorts for 
their spice-pickers. 
‘Though no animals live here, danger still lurks 
within the Umbra Hills. Undead soldiers rise from 
the grass when the silvery moon Catha is high, and 
the ruins of ancient Drassig war camps seem to 
draw demons of all types, still bound by the contract 
between Trist Drassig and the Demon Prince of 
Indulgence. Pathetic dretches gambol about in the 
ruins’ long shadows, and rumors say that, on nights 
when the moon Ruidus is full, even mighty balor 
demons prowl the hills in search of mighty souls 
to corrupt. 
CHAPTER 3: TAUDOREI GAZETTEER 
UMBRA HILLS ADVENTURES 
Game Masters who set their adventure in the Umbra 
Hills can use this plot hook for inspiration. 
Sword of the Demon Prince (high-level). In a 
dream, a skilled warrior within the party continually 
ions of 
a noble, kingly sword embedded in 
the ground, surrounded by shadows and demons. 
“Free me,” it whispers. “Ineed your help... 
am in the 
Umbra Hills.” The sword is not as it appears; though 
the Demon Prince of Indulgence was defeated at 
the Battle of the Umbra Hills and banished to the 
Abyss, his accursed greatsword still lingers. The last 
shard of his malevolence in this world, Graz'tchar, 
the Decadent End rests in the center of the valley, 
its tip embedded in the earth (see page 195 for its 
game statistics). The alluring, androgynous marilith 
demons that guard it pretend to be the ghosts of 
great knights, protecting the blade of a lost Sover- 
eign of Tal'Dorei. 
GREY VALLEY 
North of the Umbra Hills lies a wide valley of ill 
omen and dark history, named for the forest of 
petrified trees that fill the majority of the valley's 
forest floor. During the Scattered War, Trist Drassig 
sees vis

--- PAGE 109 ---
‘obsessed over the possibility of losing and pledged 
his service to the Demon Prince of Indulgence in 
exchange for power to smite his foes. 
The bargain accepted, the demon prince sent his 
forces to this valley to aid Trist in the Battle of the 
Umbra Hills, but ultimately both fell to the incredi- 
ble strength of the rebelling forces. The release of 
terrible energies exploded across the battlefield. Now 
left cursed and lifeless, the valley remains a warning 
against dealing with demons—and a dangerous locus 
of darker entities that are drawn to the ruined place. 
GREY VALLEY ADVENTURES 
Game Masters who set their adventure in the Grey 
Valley can use this plot hook for inspiration. 
Heart of the Wraithroot (high-level). At the dead 
center of the Grey Valley is a petrified tree unlike 
any other. Knots in its stony bark gaze like eyes at 
its withered domain. This wraithroot tree (see page 
259) is the eternal guardian of a dark treasure. 
Rumors abound about what could be secreted away 
behind this vile guardian—a relic of a demon prince, 
ct of the Betrayer 
Gods unknown to mortal minds? The true nature of 
this artifact is up to the Game Master, but whatever 
itis, rumors of its existence have lured countless 
adventurers to their deaths. 
STORMCREST 
MOUNTAINS 
Spanning Tal’Dorei's southern reaches, buttressed 
against the Verdant Expanse, stand the massive 
‘Stormerest Mountains. The winds of the Lucidian 
Ocean wail through the storm-battered peaks, and 
few dare make these treacherous mountains their 
home. The few who do live amidst the Stormerests 
are ferocious monstrosities and the giantkin strong 
enough to defeat them—and those few peoples 
cunning enough to evade storm, monster, and giant 
alike. The only friendly towns anywhere near these 
forsaken peaks lie in the Mornset Countryside 
pushing along the Stormpoint range, far beyond the 
influence of the Tal Dorei Council. These rugged folk 
are used to fending for themselves and scoff 
at the 
thought of returning 
to so-called 
“civilization,” prefer- 
ring life among the swamps and shadowed forests of 
their homeland, 
ASHEN GORGE 
One mountain stands out among the Stormerests. 
Its twin peaks rumble with fury, breathing fire and 
smoke into the sky to mingle with the storm clouds 
that surround the mountains. Lightning tears 
through the ashen clouds with giddy excitement, 
making 
it clear to all who behold it that this is a place 
of supernatural power. Cartographers in Emon call 
this crater the Ashen Gorge, but the people of the 
low valleys call it the Dragon’s Throne, for they know 
what creature once lived atop the mountain. They 
remember when they too were under the dominion of 
Thordak the Cinder King. 
Today, several tenuous alliances of lizardfolk, 
dragonblood, kobolds, and even a few young dragons 
trying to expand their treasure hoards battle for 
dominion over this ruined vale. When the moun- 
tain was the lair of the Cinder King during his first 
incursion into Tal’Dorei, the lizardfolk and kobolds 
flocked to his side, worshiping his might and cruelty. 
Though Thordak is slain, his influence yet lingers, 
Majority Faiths: Arch He 
Wildmother 
Minority Faiths: Moonweaver, Stormlotd, 
™ Ruiner, Sci 
Imports: 
estock, 
*, grain, 
silver, 
spell components 
Exports: 
Lumber, gold, grain, grat 
quartz, iron 
Spider Quee

--- PAGE 110 ---
and his legend draws treasure hunters and would-be 
tyrants to this place. Gold, jewels, and magic items 
from all ages 
of the world lie in wait within the doz 
or more secret vaults of the Cinder King's lair. When 
the king of dragons still held dominion here, he had 
thousands of loyal scaled minions at his beck and 
call, moving invaluable treasures into deeper and 
deeper holds. Beyond the main cavern 
of the lair, 
even the Cinder King himself had to magically take 
humanoid form to traverse the winding tunnels his 
servants carved through the rock. 
The descendants of Thordak’s servitors now 
fight an endless war over his treasure. Every year, 
it seems a petty new “Cinder King” rises to power 
within the Ashen Gorge, but they are always 
dethroned before their minions can enter the 
ancient vaults, still locked after all this time. To steal 
‘Thordak’s greatest treasures, an adventuring party 
would have to either broker a peace between the 
warring clans or somehow sneak into the mountain 
undetected. 
‘The following major factions fight for control 
over the Ashen Gorge. They make and break their 
alliances with one faction or another, and then 
break their new alliances 
just as readily. You can 
use these factions to inspire adventures set in the 
Ashen Gorge. 
Scions of Flame. This cult of black-scaled lizard 
folk claim to have been Thordak’s elite guard in 
ancient times, and are the current rulers of the 
gorge. They're led by a five-hundred-year-old druid 
named Burning Oak, and while his awesome 
magic keeps the other tribes at bay, his frailty 
makes him vulnerable to attack—and the other 
tribes know it. 
Tinysoot. Every ten years brings a new generation 
of kobolds, and while the Tinysoot tribe's war- 
riors are not the mightiest, their overwhelming 
‘numbers have allowed them to overwhelm even 
the greatest of the Flame Scions’ champions. The 
Tinysoots’ leader, a stubborn young Queen of Soot 
named Yabber Tinysoot 
XIX, wears around her 
neck the key to Everflame Crevasse, Thordak’s 
deepest treasure vault. 
Black Snow. When Thordak's ally, Umbrasyl, was 
slain atop Gatshadow, his caustic 
blood seeped 
into the corpses of 
a dozen goliath scouts from 
the Herd of Storms. The black dragons’ magi 
combined with the foul power of Gatshadow 
itself, transformed the goliaths into a squadron 
of undead black dragonblood warriors. Skeletal 
wings sprouted from their backs, and the Black 
Snow tribe flew instinctively to the Ashen Gorge. 
They were drawn to the Ruby of Oblivion, a 
pitch-black ruby of immense unholy power—now 
stored in the Obsidian Geode, a treasure vault 
guarded by a legion of golems and elementals. 
This squadron of hateful revenants is small, but 
each one of them wields the strength of twenty 
lesser warriors. 
Tatterwing Kin. Toxoshuul, Chloroxodon, and 
Snagglefang, a trio of young green dragons, 
Jong to plunder Thordak’s lost vaults for their 
own hoards, and demand tribute from the other 
factions of the Ashen Gorge in exchange for 
their aid in battle. All three are the children of

--- PAGE 111 ---
HO 
Tatter wing, a feared dragon of the Kirmont Valley, 
and even if they find themselves on opposite sides 
ofa skirmish, they never fight one another, only 
annihilating the pathetic humanoids beneath them 
with their toxic breath and razor-sharp talons. 
DREAMSEEP MARSHLANDS 
East of the Stormerest Range, 
within the Kirmont 
Valley, is the sprawling, fetid Dreamseep Marsh. The 
perpetual rain rolling off the Stormerests’ enchanted 
slopes has transformed this once-lush forest into 
‘a morass of rotting vegetation, sulfurous mud, and 
gnarled, weeping trees. So many cruel murders have 
been committed within the Dreamscep that the very 
land is cursed, forsaken by the gods. Negative energy 
pools there like water, and the dead drink deep of 
it. The marsh is populated by more than just the 
walking zombies of killers and their victims—awful 
amalgamations of dozens of bodies, both humanoid 
and bestial, are birthed within the Dreamseep's 
putrid womb. 
Somewhere in the middle of this accursed realm 
is a sinkhole that plunges deep beneath the earth. 
At its deepest point is the Tomb of Udah, a fabled 
necropolis of countless chambers, littered with 
traps and treasures that have claimed the lives and 
imaginations of untold hundreds. Every death within 
Usdah’s accursed walls only adds to the legions at its 
dread master's command; characters who explore its 
tunnels face not only undead warriors in armor from 
a bygone millennium, but steely warriors in armor 
from every epoch in Tal’Dorei history. 
The small community of Bronbog holds the only 
lights of civilization within the shadows here, and 
those that continue to thrive against the oppressive 
swamp are hearty and stubborn folk. 
DREAMSEEP MARSHLANDS 
ADVENTURES, 
Game Masters who set their adventure in the 
Dreamseep Marshlands can use this plot hook for 
inspiration. 
‘Skull of Udah (epic-level). Two rumors persist 
of the Tomb of Udah. Fi 
is said that within 
the 
tomb's deepest sanctum is a three-eyed golden skull, 
and that in each socket is inlaid a ruby that can grant 
any wish. Second, the locals say that, unlike the 
mindless undead of the Dreamseep above, the abom- 
inations in the necropolis below are commanded by 
a hideous master. Little do these rumor-spreaders 
know that the skull and the master are one and the 
same, Udah the Undying is a lich of tremendous 
power, devouring the souls of all who die within the 
Dreamseep. His disembodied spirit controls the dun- 
geon itself, and only retreats into the skull—the last 
remnant of his physical form—when it is in danger. 
BRONBOG 
Village: Population 683 (53% humans, 18% 
halfelves, 11% goblinkin, 9% halflings, 9% 
other races) 
If there ever was a civilization that called the 
Dreamseep home, Bronbog is all that remains of it. 
Its buildings are made from planks of waterlogged 
bogwood, and the only sign of its previous greatness 
is the ring of stone pillars that once supported the 
Temple of the Dawnfather. Even though the temple 
to their patron god has crumbled, the people of 
Bronbog keep the faith; their belief 
in the sun god's 
afierlife is their greatest comfort against their mea- 
ger lives. Yet, for all the gloom that surrounds the 
Dreamseep Marshlands, the Bronboggi maintain a 
determinedly optimistic disposition. There's a saying 
in the village: “If you don't feel the storm, you can’t 
know there ain't sun.” 
The only reason anyone north of the Stormcrest 
Mountains knows of Bronbog is because of queen- 
scap, a rare swamp fungus that serves asa reagent 
in creating potent potions of superior healing. I's 
been harvested almost to extinction in the more 
accessible K’Taw! Swamp, and Tal’Dorei’s alche- 
mists will pay good money for a 
shipment. 
‘The biggest building in Bronbog 
is its tavern, the 
Queen’s Knight, which has about six beds in drafty 
rooms to accommodate the town's very few 
BRONBOG ADVENTURES 
Game Masters who set their adventure in Bronbog 
can use this plot hook for inspiration. 
Morning Glory (mid-level). On a queenscap-gath- 
ering expedition to Bronbog, an unusual storm 
forces the characters to stay the night. As they spend 
time in the swamp town, vine-choked stone obelisks 
slowly emerge from the murky waters, emanating 
an unearthly light. Some villagers immediately fall 
under the obelisks’ sway, claiming they are “heralds 
of the Dawnfather, the rising sun?’ but all others are 
disturbed by their neighbors’ feverish worship of 
the stones. 
The true power behind these obelisks is a mis- 
guided deva that calls himself Eclipse. He seeks to 
create a brainwashed, perfectly loyal Army of the 
Dawn to fight against the Dawnfather's enemies. 
He is posing as Father Larkylai, the town’s affable 
priest of the Dawnfather, and conducts services from. 
within the town’s tavern. 
THE FROSTWEALD 
Along the northern base of the Stormerests is a 
forest locked in perpetual winter, cursed to eternal 
cold by the invasion of Errevon the Rimelord during 
the Icelost Years. Within the forest, ponds magically 
freeze into perfect mirrors, reflecting the snowy sky 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 112 ---
CHAPTER 
above, and the snow-draped trees shelter families 
of fey hiding from enemies in the Fey Realm. At 
first, the Frostweald seems a wonderland of crisp 
snow and aromatic pines and firs, yet the serene 
landscape belies sinister danger. Herds of basi- 
lisks roam the woods, and travelers who encounter 
mysterious snow-covered statuaries or copses of 
petrified trees must think fast or join this grisly 
statuary—permanently. 
FROSTWEALD INHABITANTS 
The only humanoid peoples who live within the 
Frostweald are hunter-gatherers called the Shiver- 
gut. Many of their people are ores who have lived 
within the Frostweald for generations, but their 
ranks also include humans, elves, and dwarves who 
adopted their ways centuries ago during the Icelost 
Years. Most are helpful to travelers, if reserved. 
Others, however, are dour, selfish isolationists who 
have been apart from other folk for so long that they 
care more for the thrill of bloodshed than a warm 
conversation over a crackling fire. 
The Frostweald is also home to a host of benev- 
olent fey, most of them pixies or dryads, using the 
forest as a safe haven away from the Fey Realm. If 
pressed for answers on why they left the Fey Realm, 
their answers are cryptic and dissatisfactory, but 
always ominously suggest a “Great Shadow” has 
descended upon their lands—perhaps even a host 
of warriors from the Plane of Shadow? A nymph 
named Arethusa watches over a cluster of three 
mirror-like pools that form a pathway into the Fey 
Realm, each to a different Archiey’s forest. She is 
jous of all mortals, and both her trust and a 
favor are required to gain passage. 
RUINS OF THE FROSTWEALD 
Many forgotten obelisks of the Knowing Mentor 
rest secretly beneath the ice and snow. These lost 
beacons were created to guide the faithful of the 
Knowing Mentor to the Cavern of Axiom, a sacred 
place guarded since time immemorial by a sphinx 
dedicated to the Mentor. If any living creature knows 
why these ancient monoliths reside here when no 
other ruins of the Knowing Mentor have been discov- 
ered, they have kept the knowledge secret from the 
other scholars of the world. Over thirty years ago, 
the half-orc Emonian archaeologist Jorlund Vohr 
discovered a cache of foun stones buried here and 
brought them to the Alabaster Lyceum of Emon, but 
his research and findings were stolen the week after 
he returned. Vohr has since stated he “got over it,” 
and is back to work on new research on Visa Isle. 
AL'DOREI GAZETTEER 
PA AAA 
AAA 
THE SILVER TABLET 
Ye who seek my boundless wisdom, 
Pass into the white trees’ kingdom. 
Return to the shrine Mentor’s eyes, 
And follow the light in the skies. 
1am the Beast of the Heavens; 
Thou shalt kneel before my presence, 
Lest the wisdom thou seekest 
Be lost to the cowardice of your weakest. 
This poem was discovered by Jorlund Vohr on his 
first expedition to the Frostweald, on a silver tablet 
written in flowing Celestial script. Upon examina- 
tion, scholars at the Alabaster Lyceum discovered 
the language of the heavens is so sublime that its 
Poetry rhymes even when translated into any lan- 
guage. The tablet was stolen later that week, along 
with the rest of Vohr's findings, but Jorlund keeps 
‘a parchment-and-charcoal copy of the tablet in a 
chest beneath his bed in Emon’s Erudite Quarter. 
eT 
CAVERN OF AXIOM 
The Cavern of Axiom is a lost shrine to the Know- 
ing Mentor, spoken of only in riddles. Hidden by 
ever-shifting illusions, the entrance to this cavern 
opens only to those who are expected by fate, Its 
entrance looks different to every group that finds it, 
from the imperious to the humble, but it appears sim- 
ply as a heavy snowdrift to those not fated to open 
its doors. Within its shifting facade are dangerous 
trials designed to test the will and mettle of those 
who seek the infinite knowledge of the Knowing 
Mentor. The chambers plunge deeper 
into the rock 
beneath the mountain, while halferoded murals and 
strange puzzles evaluate any wanderer 
who seeks an 
audience with the keeper of the cavern, an ageless 
androsphinx named Kamaljiori, The final challenges 
presented by the sphinx alter from subject to subject, 
and failure banishes the petitioners from the cavern, 
barred from ever returning. 
RUHN-SHAK 
Small City: Population 6,670 (80% elves, 12% 
dwarves, 5% gnomes, 3% other races) 
Ifyou find carved arches and steel gates in the 
mountain slopes, do not rest there, no matter the 
cold. There are no grand dwarf-halls among these 
forsaken peaks. 
Deep below the surface world, countless caverns 
and tunnels wind into regions where light finds 
no purchase. It is here, beneath the Stormerest 
Mountains, that the largest subterranean society of 
the Spider Queen's devotees maintains its tyranny. 
Hidden entrances and tunnels riddle not just the 
mountain range, but the edges of the Dreamseep, 
Ml

--- PAGE 113 ---
as well as darker regions of the Verdant Expanse, 
granting raiding parties quick and easy access to the 
surface under cover of night—slaughtering many, 
capturing 
the rest, and taking 
the spoils as gifts to 
the Spider Queen. 
‘These tunnels, in their twisted network, are easily 
collapsed and reopened through the use of “Pit 
Witches,” druids who master the art of rock and 
dirt manipulation, making it near impossible to give 
chase, The Wardens of Syngorn are ever seeking 
a way to find and destroy this heart of the Spider 
Queen’s power in Tal’Dorei, but the sly and cunning 
elves of Ruhn-Shak have yet to meet their match. 
RUHN-SHAK ADVENTURES. 
Game Masters who set their adventure in Ruhn- 
Shak can use these plot hooks for inspiration. 
Dynastic Intervention (any level). While in 
Syngorn, the characters are called by Ouestra, 
Voice of Memory (see page 63), to meet with 
guests from Wildemount. They are emissaries of 
the Kryn Dynasty, a society founded by dark elves 
who fled the Spider Queen's grip 
and now live on the 
surface. These Kryn envoys seek to undertake an 
expedition into Ruhn-Shak, to try to use the radiant 
power of their mysterious god, the Luxon, to free 
their kin from the Spider Queen's evil influence. The 
characters are offered a fine reward by the War- 
dens of Syngorn to protect these Kryn priests on 
their mission. 
A Plea from the Dark (mid-level). The charac- 
ters are drawn into the underground tunnels around 
Ruhn-Shak by a psychic message: “I have displeased 
the Spider Queen; there is nothing I can do but beg 
for salvation—can anyone hear me?” The message 
comes from Ry’denyan, a drow of Ruhn-Shak 
granted telepathic powers by an unknown aberra- 
tion. This unexpected gift allowed him to break free 
of his society's brainwashing. He tried to escape, and 
‘was exiled into the tunnels, where he will surely be 
devoured by driders unless the characters save him. 
WRETTIS 
A relic of the Age of Arcanum, Wrettis is the ruined 
tower of a powerful mage, one who was driven mad 
by the seductive whispers of beings from the beyond. 
‘Whaat few legends survive of the mage of Wrettis 
say he was known as Clemain Astural, the Sight 
Shephard, and that he was a powerful arcanist who 
peered into a realm beyond the planes in search 
of power to end the war that ravaged his world. He 
found it, and thought it would serve him. 
He was wrong. Astural’s sanity crumbled, but his 
power only grew, fueled by an entity he called the 
Sightless One (see page 41). As devastation crept 
across southeastern Tal'Dorei, heroes of the land 
rode to Wrettis to end Astural’s chaotic reign, destroy 
his tower, and bury his corpse in the rubble. Wrettis 
is now a moss-coated ruin, but some chambers 
within and below the tower still hold secrets of the 
mad mage, as well as some of his creations. 
RIFENMIST PENINSULA 
South of the Stormerest Mountains and the Verdant 
Expanse are a number of autonomous communities 
that live outside the influence of the Republic of 
Tal! Dorei and its constituent city-states. A number 
of plans to expand into Rifenmist have been brought 
to the Tal’Dorei Council, but strong opposition from 
the Syngornian delegation and the Master of Defense 
have consistently buried these plans before they can 
come to fruition. 
Anumber of communities exist on the Rifenmist 
Peninsula. Some are lost remnants of the Scattered 
War that chose to flee Drassig's rule to the isolated 
and unpopulated Mornset Countryside rather than 
fight against his tyranny. These are the communities 
DATO) 
THE ASTURAL SCROLLS 
Clemain Astural covered thousands of pages of 
parchment with his writings, ranging from alchem- 
ical formulas to powerful spells to esoteric star 
charts...but his later notes descend into paranoid, 
half-crazed ramblings. One of the heroes that killed 
Astural, a wizard named Atz Yuminor, took as many 
of the scrolls as he could find and brought them. 
back to his house in the Dividing Plains. Yuminor’s 
bloodline continues in Estella Ladimar, headmis- 
tress of the Westhall Academy in Westruun, and 
many of the Astural Scrolls are kept secretly by the 
Scions of Yuminor in the academy's observatory. 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 114 ---
that some Emonian merchants wish to bring into the 
fold of Tal'Dorei proper. Farther to the 
south (and 
‘occasionally roaming north into Mornset) are the 
Orroyen elves, a collection of nomadic tribes. The 
Orroyen and the elves of Syngorn see 
one another 
as family, and the Syngornian delegation refuses 
to allow the council to interfere with their cousins’ 
way of life. 
Beyond the Mornset people and the Orroyen are 
a number 
of other small, individualistic 
settlements 
that 
live in fear of the imperial power that commands 
Rifenmist: the Iron Authority. Tal’Dorei’s 
Master of 
Defense warns the council of provoking this slum: 
bering empire, for they are preoccupied 
with their 
unholy conquest of the Rifenmist Jungle in the name 
of their patron deity, the Strife Emperor. A number of 
Orroyen elves and other people of Rifenmist long for 
Emon's aid in breaking the grip of the Iron Authority, 
but fear that allowing the Republic of Tal’Dorei to 
gaina military foothold in Rifenmist would simply be 
trading one imperial master for another. 
Beyond the political struggles of this realm are ter- 
rors only true heroes can surv 
jormous, ancient 
beasts stalk the vine-twisted paths of the jungle that 
consumes the majority of the peninsula's coastline. 
An expanding morass of fungus spreads from a mys- 
terious, corrupt source along the 
rn depths of 
the underbrush, while a secret society of naga-wor- 
ippers bring bloody offerings to their 
snake-queen. 
BEYNSFAL PLATEAU 
Where below there is life and freedom, above there i 
naught but death and tyranny. In the high, southern 
plateaus of Rifenmist, verdant jungle 
gives way to a 
CHAPTER 3: TAUDOREI GAZETTEER 
Minority Faiths: Wildmother, Moonweaver, 
#Cloaked Serpent, Lord of the Hells 
armor, stone, 
pell components 
components, produce, 
cracked, volcanic landscape, its basalt fields inter- 
rupted only by towering structures of black 
iron, This 
hellish place is the home of the Iron Authority, and 
one of the last battlegrounds of the Calamity, 
Itis here that the Betrayer God known as the 
Strife Emperor, aided by his legions of brainwashed 
goblinkin, clashed with the Wildmother and her Free 
Children, Though the Wildmother was victorious 
and the goblinkin were freed, the site of the Strife 
Emperor's defeat was reduced to rock and ash, a 
place where plants would never again grow. 
Most of the goblinkin who survived the battle van- 
ished into the jungle and traveled north into the rest 
of Tal'Dorei, leaving the shame of 
their connection to 
the Strife Emperor behind. Centuries later, however, 
a number of goblinkin still remained among the 
towering iron of the Strife Emperor's fallen armor. 
One platoon of hobgoblins, the Iron Regiment, 
devoted themselves wholly to the Strife Emperor, 
and pledged to revive his glorious legacy of conquest. 
They press-ganged as many of their kin as they could 
into armies and created the seed of 
an empire—one 
which they watered with 
blood. 
When the Iron Regiment brought all of the 
Beyensfal Plateau under their rule and transformed 
themselves 
into the Iron Authority, their empire 
only continued to grow. The Iron Tide never broke, 
and within a decade, it had engulfed all the other 
kingdoms along Rifenmist's southern coast. They 
were united under the cruel banner of Tz'Jars, the 
Iron Emperor. 
While the entirety of Beynsfal is firmly controlled 
by the Iron Authority, the empire is still reaching, 
now locked in a decades-long war to subjugate the 
native inhabitants of the jungles below: the Orroyen. 
a 
113

--- PAGE 115 ---
114 
Five major city-states comprise the core of the 
Iron Authority, though all swear fealty to the Iron 
Emperor in its capital of T’Arrm, the southern- 
most city of the plateau, From south to north, the 
other imperial city-states are Rybad-Kol, city of the 
Forge Lords; Hdar-Fye, the necropolis of Prince 
Har; 
Ezordam-Haar, eyrie of the red pegasi; and 
Ortem-Vellak, the petrified elventree. 
BEYNSFAL PLATEAU ADVENTURES 
Game Masters who set their adventure on the Beyns- 
fal Plateau and the surrounding mountains can use 
this plot hook for inspiration. 
The Wayward Bloodline (mid-level). Tz'Jarr 
has a single heir to his throne: his hobgoblin child 
Zuun'dak, nearly of age and currently being groomed 
to become a great general. However, Zuun’dak has 
grown up with trepidation regarding the brutality 
of his society, and after being briefly captured by an 
outlying Orroyen scouting party and learning 
of the 
gentler world abroad, he’s begun to long for escape 
and reformation. When the party stumbles upon a 
disguised and fleeing Zuun'dak, they must decide 
whether to turn over such a valuable bargaining tool 
to the Orroyen, or aid and groom the defecting heir 
as a rebellious force against his father. 
MORNSET COUNTRYSIDE 
After a long journey south from Syngorn, or north 
from the Rifenmist Jungle, thick foliage gives way 
to rolling hills and winding rivers. No great cities 
are to be seen here, only an untouched wilderness 
pockmarked by fortified towns. The Mornset Coun- 
tryside is home to many people whose ancestors 
fled the rule of Drassig. Most of these people value 
their privacy—especially from Emonian landscape 
painters who enrich themselves by romanticizing 
and exoticizing their idyllic way of life. 
The Free Folk 
of Mornset, as they call themselves, 
include a wide variety of people who have spurned 
the ways of their forebears. The bulk of these people 
are the descendants of refugees from a long-ago war, 
but a number of Tal’Dorei people who long for free- 
dom from the pressure of modern life have uprooted 
their lives and journeyed to Mornset to start anew. 
Likewise, some Orroyen elves who dislike the 
nomadic lifestyle find homes in the small communi- 
ties of Mornset. 
Beyond those who follow their hearts to this realm, 
Mornset is also home to a number of criminals 
fleeing persecution. Most Free Folk don’t ask ques- 
jons about newcomers’ pasts, and welcome them 
regardless. However, if these particular outlanders 
don't leave their 
past behind and continue to harm 
others, or bring bounty hunters (or worse) in their 
wake, every village in Mornset has a well-trained 
militia that will eagerly remove dangerous folk from 
their midst. 
Bound by the necessity of survival, the people of 
this land share a common code of honor called the 
Fundaments. This code holds all to a baseline of 
respect for all travelers and outcasts, and codifies 
ancient principles of hospitality. Each denizen of 
the countryside looks out for their neighbor, and if 
a person in need arrives upon one’s doorstep, the 
hospitality of food and shelter must be provided 
Itis understood that the Fundaments may be taken 
advantage of by ruffians and power-hungry upstarts. 
Nevertheless, this code of honor has served the Free 
Folk well for centuries, and anyone who scorns it is. 
looked upon with disdain and mistrust. Most of the 
Mornset Free Folk are humanoids, but many free 
settlements have alliances with the local hill giants, 
cyclopes, and ogres that help protect them against 
the Iron Authority to the south. 
MORNSET ADVENTURES 
Game Masters who set their adventure in Mornset 
can use this plot hook for inspiration. 
Anger Everburning (low-level). A number of 
residents of the uncharted village of Heldenfaire 
have been unexpectedly—and suddenly—flying 
into 
arage both mindless and destructive. Many within 
the village are confused, fearing a plague of violent 
madness, and they seek adventurers (especially 
parties with clerics or skilled healers) to save 
them. Investigation by the party reveals that each 
individual driven to these fits is connected to the 
town alchemist's dark past and a failed herbalism 
experiment from ten years ago, when she 
lived in 
Kymal. If the characters wish to find an antidote, 
they must explore the alchemist’ sinister laboratory 
in the hills. 
BYRODEN 
‘Town: Population 8,050 (45% humans, 21% half- 
elves, 12% goblinkin, 8% halflings, 8% gnomes, 
6% other races) 
‘The northernmost and largest town in the Mornset 
Countryside, Byroden borders the Gladepools and 
marks the first stop for any traveler 
on their way to. 
the Rifenmist Peninsula. It’s also a hub of trade for 
the entire Mornset Countryside, and even some trap- 
pers and artisans of the Verdant Expanse. The town, 
has a dense town center surrounded by palisades 
and tall wooden walls, but most of the community 
lives in homesteads and farmhouses spread across 
the surrounding fields. Byroden is mostly self-suffi- 
cient, and has a wealth of farmers, fishers, artisans, 
and miners, giving them everything they need to 
survive. Trade provides the opportunity for some 
luxuries, with raw materials serving as their primary 
currency. 
While pleasant and welcoming on the outside, this 
lifestyle is protected by a fierce and intense drive 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 116 ---
to defend the community's way of life at the first 
sign of threat or danger. Most citizens are armed at 
all times, trained to rise as acommunal militia at 
‘a moment's notice from the war ringer, a sentinel 
charged with the town's protection. 
Despite (or perhaps because of) the ever-pres- 
ent dangers that threaten Byroden, the town holds 
frequent festivals, feasts, and fairs, including the 
highly anticipated Gem of Byroden pageant and the 
midsummer Peachiest Pie bake-off. On festival days, 
small children roam freely within the protective town 
walls as their parents enjoy the chance to let loose 
and celebrate life in all its ephemeral glory. 
HILLMAW CHASM 
A few miles north of the center of Byroden is a gap- 
ing chasm. An earthquake thirty years ago split open 
Deercrest Hill. The chasm is referred to officially as 
Deercrest Ravine, but is known to most superstitious 
folk in town as Hillmaw Chasm. After the earth- 
quake, locals stayed as far away from the chasm 
as they could—until four years later, when a group 
of adventurers found vast veins of precious gold 
and sturdy iron within, Soon, all people of Byroden 
strong enough to swing a pick or lift a shovel made 
their way into the chasm. 
Most miners hire an armed escort because the 
chasm is known to be home to grumpy earth ele- 
‘mentals, as well as unpleasant, slimy creatures of 
the dark. Most serious beliefs about the chasm being 
haunted have dissipated over the past thirty years. 
Still, rumors persist, and as folklore becomes myth, 
some say that myth can become reality. 
ADVENT OF THE CINDER KING 
About forty years ago, Byroden was brought to its 
knees by Thordak the Cinder King. This incursion 
was about two decades before the Cinder King’s 
destruction of Emon, and it was stopped by an adven- 
turing party led by Allura Vysoren, now a senior 
member of the Tal'Dorei Council. Many in Byroden 
still see Allura, Lady Kima of Vord, and Drake Thun- 
derbrand as heroes. The graves of the companions 
they lost in that fight, Sirus Kaldrem, Dohla Lorian, 
and Ghenn Talevesh, hold places of honor in the 
town cemetery. 
While Byroden has long-since been built anew, 
the terror of that day still lives on in its elders and 
adults. All but the youngest generation of Byroden 
takes great caution against another such monstrous 
attack—as well as against any attack by the Iron 
Authority to the south. 
BYRODEN ADVENTURES 
Game Masters who set their adventure in Byroden 
can use these plot hooks for inspiration. 
Ironbound Scouts (low-level). All are awoken 
in Byroden by the ringing of the town's alarm bell, 
CHAPTER 3: TALDOREI GAZETTEER 
including the characters. As the town militia is 
armed for battle, the characters overhear that goblin 
and hobgoblin scouts of the Iron Authority have 
been spotted twenty miles south of town—closer 
than they've been seen in nearly two decades. 
Worried that this scouting party is an omen of 
invasion, the town’s war ringer deputizes the char- 
acters and offers them a handsome sum of money to 
investigate the scouting camp. Their goal is simple: 
learn the interlopers' mission, either by interrogating 
their commander or by finding a written command 
note. And, if the characters can capture or eliminate 
the scouts before the town's upcoming festival, the 
locals will celebrate their success with all the free 
food and drink they can stomach. 
The Dreamgate (mid-level). After a mining expe- 
dition goes missing deep within the Hillmaw Chasm, 
locals begin to report vivid, communal dreams 
involving members of the missing party pleading for 
help. A half dozen mercenaries have been 
hired to 
investigate—only for them to disappear as well. Just 
a day before the characters are asked for help, the 
townsfolk of Byroden discovered with horror that the 
vanished mercenaries have also appeared in their 
dreams. The adventurers are asked to delve into this 
unearthed pathway and to find both answers and the 
missing people. 
NHRDAL-POC 
City: Population 15,442 (18% humans, 17% 
goblinkin, 12% elves, 12% elephantines, 10% half 
elves, 7% elemental ancestry, 24% other races) 
Long before the Calamity, a great civilization called 
the Qoniira made Rifenmist their home. During the 
Age of Arcanum, the Qoniira Tetrarchy grew from 
a loose coalition of towns led by arcanists, clerics 
of the Wildmother, and druids who spoke with the 
jungle around them, These towns were inhabited by 
humans and the animal-bodied humanoids of the 
jungle. The first stones of the Qoniiran heart-city 
Niirdal-Poc were laid by the broad, towering elephan- 
tine people, and places for new settlements were 
scouted out by catfolk seers whose eyes glistened 
with starlight. 
SURVIVING THE CALAMITY 
In time, the Qoniira 
ization grew into a 
Tetrarchy, with four great satellite cities and the 
central heart-city of Niirdal-Poc, The tetrarchs 
established their cities with mathematical precision. 
A constellation of the night sky guided them— 
Surrac’s Shield, a four-starred diamond with a fifth 
star in its center. The constellation still shines over 
Rifenmist and southern Exandria today. The four 
outer cities of Qoniira match the points of Surrac’s 
shield precisely, and Niirdal-Poc is aligned with its 
center star.

--- PAGE 117 ---
‘The Calamity struck at the peak of Qoniiran civili- 
zation, yet 
rather than take up arms against gods and 
mortals, the tetrarchs opted to remove themselves 
from the world—not unlike the elves of Syngorn to 
the north. Something happened in 
Niirdal-Poc, some 
sort of magi 
en the Qoniirans of today do not 
understand. 
GEOGRAPHY 
Today, only the heart-city of Niirdal-Poc survives. 
's satellites are little more than crumbling ruins. 
Something shifted in the magic 
of the jungle when 
the Qoniirans chose not to fight in the Calamity 
Rifenmist Jungle closed its boughs against the world, 
shielding 
the city. When the Strife Emperor died 
on the Beynsfal Plateau to the south, the Qoni 
knew nothing of it. All the tumult of the world 
passed them by 
The Rifenmist Jungl 
‘oc into adeep 
basin, and its thick canopies 
shield it from above, 
while 
its intertwining 
boughs hold the heart-city 
tightly in its 
embrace. 
Few 
are permitted by the pro: 
ic 
of the Qoniirans to enter the 
city. Its people live contentedly within Niirdal-Poc, 
only occasionally traveling outside their basin to 
trade with Orroyen nomads or, in mythically rare 
nces, with the town of Byroden 
The four ruins which surround Niirdal-Poe are: 
Niirdal-Gan. 
This outer city to the 
north of 
Niird- 
al-Poc 
was 
the agricultural hub of Qoniira. Some 
farmers have opted to live outside 
the basin and 
tend 
to these 
still fertile lands. They are few, for 
magic 
is able to supply food for most people of 
Niirdal-Poc. 
irdal-Teek. This outer c 
t of Niirdal-Poc, 
was an academic center of the Qoniiran

--- PAGE 118 ---
civilization, Most of the city is one vast university 
Storms bring death, but rain brings 
life. Storms are 
that once was populated by over 30,000 people. 
power, the power of the distant gods, on display 
‘Some explorers venture into these ruins to find 
for all to see. Climb into the Stormpoints, 
young 
_lost knowledge. 
i 
| one, and shout your fury into the relentless wind 
Niirdal-sardet Located couthiof Nidal Poo, this 
gh booming thunder. Your'prayers may not be 
quien city was-a center of faith for the Qontirans, 
anstbered by the gods, buf'you will feel them echo in 
All that remains of the sacred city is a vast, float- 
ih hicake 
ing cube called the Hexahedron of Sarqet. It is 
eos 
adorned with statues of the Prime Deities and the 
p 
CLOUDWRITERBREGHRUY OFTHE ORROYEN 
Betrayer Gods 
alike, and none living know what is 
inside its unbreachable walls. Even today, modern 
Qoniiran priests teach that balance is the true 
bvay of the world, telling 
their people to invoke the 
A 
ees 
names of the Prime Deities for blessings, and of 
MAGIC BEYOND RECKONING 
REE Ea: Gods for cures. 
Magic suffuses the city of Niirdal-Poc. Its magic is 
Niirdal-Hup. Precious little remains of this for- 
something older than the gods, or the Calamity, or 
tress-city, the heart of the Qoniiran military. A 
anything wielded by mortals today. Haweverte 
common parable reminds those who hear it to not 
mortal mages of Niirdal-Poc wield the same arcane 
fight fate—for 
of all the ruined cities, only the city 
force gifted by the gods, and its druids and cleries 
Bee 
Gs ccdissed 16 dust 
touch upon the power of the gods behind the Divine 
Gate, just as Exandria's other mortal peoples do. 
Both ancient and modern magic mingle in 
Niirdal-Poc, for the patterns of the ancient powers 
are mysterious, and its methods are unknowable. 
Some call it the Light of Fate, others the Blessing of 
the Stars. The most common name is simply “the 
GOVERNMENT 
Gift.” It was the Gift that protected Niirdal-Poc in 
the Calamity. It is the Gift that causes miracles to 
occur, like a person surviving a fall from the heights 
of Vedrim’s Pinnacle to the streets of the city. It is 
the Gift that causes the Hexahedron of Sarget to 
hover mysteriously; it is the Gift that surrounds the 
Statue of the Observer, a four-winged feline human- 
oid figure in 
the city’s center, with a broken halo of 
ashen-gold light—and that causes that same light to 
flicker within the lamps of the city. 
All of these ruins are filled with statues from the 
height of the Qoniiran Tetrarchy. Some statues have 
been known to move under the light of the stars, 
illuminating hidden runes upon their bodies as they 
patrol like sentinels of antiquity. 
The Tetrarchy of Qoniira, in ages past, was ruled 
by four tetrarchs, each of whom ruled one of the 
civilization’s four outer cities. In times where the fate 
of Qoniira was at a crossroads, they gathered 
wit 
the heart-city to guide the course of their civiliza- 
tion together. 
‘The relative autonomy of the four outer cities and 
the looseness of the coalition that bound them seems 
at odds with the perfect precision with which the cit- 
ies were built, so precisely matching the stars in the 
ORROYEN TRIBES 
sky. The Qoniirans have always been an easygoing 
people who typically follow the flow of fate, rather 
Nomadic Tribes: Population 11,850 (64% elves, 12% 
than fight against it 
half-elves, 10% humans, 14% other races) 
Today, the tetrarchy survives, even though the 
Born from a wandering colony fleeing the Calamity, 
four outer cities are in ruins. They gather daily in 
these wood elves have not just survived within the 
the Hakredic Dome, an architecturally magnifi- 
jungles of Rifenmist—they have flourished. Learning 
cent granite rotunda adorned with an outer layer of 
the dangers of the surrounding lands, refining their 
grayish-purple porphyry stone and lifelike, reddish 
hunting techniques, and maintaining a healthy arms- 
porphyry statues. There, the tetrarchs and their 
length relationship 
outsiders, the Orroyen call 
advisors work to keep life simple and content for 
the jungle their domain and protect it furiously. 
their people. 
The Orroyen tribes have no central government, 
The tetrarchy is a hereditary office, but city- 
and their membership shifts as different clans move 
wide elections are held between eli 
through the region and encounter other tribes, 
determine which heir should take up their parent's 
sometimes trading members as they go. Elders 
mantle, Elections are also held when atetrarch’s line 
_are given the most oversight and respect among a 
ends without heirs—often giving advisors a chance to _ 
traveling tribe, the eldest given the title of dura, and 
gain power by virtue of their service to the city. 
the duty of leading their tribe. Each nomadic group 
maintains a population of anywhere between a hun- 
dred and a thousand people. Temporary lodging is 
constructed at each resting point, called a tomenda. 
CHAPTER 3: TAL'DOREI GAZETTEER 
i 
: 
7

--- PAGE 119 ---
Most Orroyen groups remain at a tomenda they've 
constructed for about two years, before depletion of 
resources or the arrival of dangerous creatures or 
soldiers forces them to move on. Countless aban- 
doned tomenda can be found throughout the jungle, 
and Orroyen clans will frequently make camp in old 
tomenda made by a different tribe—it is considered a 
gift from the jungle. 
To come into prominence within the tribe, or 
request admittance into the tribes as an ally or 
member, a hopeful entrant must complete a series 
of ceremonial trials. These trials change from dura 
to dura, but are designed to test strength of body 
and mind. It is not uncommon for those who attempt 
these trials to return maimed, or to not return at all, 
and many elders bear the marks and scars of their 
trials long past. Few outlanders from the north, 
known as orfindes to the Orroyen, have been allowed 
into any of the dozens of Orroyen tribes, and the 
elders have little intention of changing 
this, for they 
have heard distant tales of the ancient tyranny of 
Drassig and the supernatural horrors the people of 
northern Gwessar invite upon themselves. 
Nevertheless, the Orroyen are practical, not pride- 
ful. They trade often with the Free Folk of Mornset, 
and sometimes even travel as far north as Byroden to 
trade rare goods. There, some Orroyen meet people 
|. elves of the jungle. Their message 
from Syngorn or beyond and share stories of their 
lands. Love can bloom in these meetings of separate 
worlds, and sometime 
results in an orfinde being 
brought into an Orroyen clan. And sometimes curi- 
‘ous Orroyen leave 
simply to see the world beyond 
the jungle. 
RIFENMIST JUNGLE 
The jungles that cover Tal’Dorei's southern expanses 
are a vast wilderness. Many elves call this lush land- 
scape their home, particularly those of the nomadic 
Orroyen Tribes. There 
is no doubt that this jungle is 
as magical and mysterious as Tal'Dorei’s temperate 
forests, for the jungle’s greenery is home to countless 
mystical spirits, ferocious monsters, and arcane 
mysteries. The vine-strangled floors of the jungle are 
clustered with swollen trunks, spine-laden ferns, and 
carnivorous plant life that waits for the unknowing 
wanderer to make an incorrect step. 
The sweltering heat of the sun-baked peninsula 
grows even more oppressive beneath the jungle’s 
humid canopy. Clusters of venomous insects buzz 
through the mist-shrouded trees, alongside large 
lizards, and wild beasts in search of carrion. Sunken 
valleys lead to pockets of marshland or quicksand 
pit traps, while others are wrought with a dire, 
spreading fungus. Those who have lived all the 
lives in this environment know its dangers well and 
have hundreds of years of precautions to take against 
them. On the other hand, those who venture into 
the jungle from northern Tal'Dorei rarely return, 
and those that do warn others to never make the 
same mistake. 
The farther south one travels 
into Rifenmist, the 
denser the jungle grows. Though some elves and 
humans of northern Tal’Dorei have attempted to col- 
onize the jungles for their vast resou 
in decad 
past, they were quickly rebuffed by the Orroyen. 
clear: no ¢ 
s 
are to be built south of the jungle’s edge—and if the 
northern jungles are cleared or burned, the trees’ 
vengeance will be swift and just. The Tal’Dorei 
Council reacted quickly as well—the elves of the 
jungle are to be heeded. The few settlers who have 
joined the Free Folk of the Mornset Countryside are 
deeply superstitious about the southern jungles, and 
rarely travel deeper than they need to in order to 
parley with their Orroyen allies. 
Even the Iron Authority, who has been at war with 
the trees of the jungle itself for decades, has not man- 
aged to destroy their foe. The Orroyen nomads fear 
the conquerors of Beynsfal Plateau and the massive 
armies supplied to them by their authoritarian lead- 
ers. Their raids ebb and flow as imperial leaders rise 
and fall. Each new era begins with a bold and cruel 
warlord rallying their people against their age-old 
enemy. War is waged, and countless innocents and 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 120 ---
Authority soldiers perish in a senseless fight. And 
then resources run low, morale dips, and the legions 
return to the Beynsfal Plateau to lick their wounds. 
Legend holds that the jungle will never die, so long 
as even one of the Orroyen lives within it. So far, his- 
tory has only proved the jungle’s enduring strength. 
RIFENMIST JUNGLE ADVENTURES 
Game Masters who set their adventure in the 
Rifenmist Jungle can use these plot hooks for 
inspiration. 
The Insatiable Sanctuary (mid-level). Long have 
rumors stirred regarding a vine-obscured temple 
from an epoch long past, but reports have mapped it 
at many different locations, with returning expedi- 
tions finding it missing. This temple has seemed 
to reveal itself once more in the northern region of 
the Rifenmist, its shadowed passages and secret 
bounties ripe for the plucking. It isn’t until a ventur- 
ing band delves deeper into the structure that signs 
begin to reveal the shrine itself 
to be a living entity, 
and the treasure a lure to draw in prey. 
Seed of Immolation (high-level). Deep beneath 
the twisted floors of the jungle lies a long-slumbering 
relic from before the Founding: an unborn primor- 
dial titan seed, its energy responsible for the fertile 
landscape and extreme overgrowth of the jungle. 
The Iron Authority and their power-hungry clerics of 
the Strife Emperor have tampered with the seed and 
unleashed powers beyond their control. The titan has 
begun to develop and wake from its eons-long slum- 
ber. If the process isn't halted, it will fully awaken 
and terrorize the continent. However, if the seed is 
destroyed, vast swathes of jungle may wither and die 
without its magical essence. 
STORMPOINT MOUNTAINS 
The southern offshoot of the Stormcrest Mountains, 
the Stormpoint Mountains push deep into Rifenmist 
Jungle itself. These steep peaks are shrouded in 
low-sitting clouds and fog for most of the year, their 
rocky surface hidden from view by lush overgrowth 
that’s fed by the near-perpetual rain. 
This region is beautiful, and in spring, thousands 
of waterfalls spray mist and cast gorgeous rainbows 
across the crags. However, due to its distance from 
most of Tal'Dorei’s population centers, few but 
adventurers and treasure hunters come here—seek- 
ing wealth, not beauty. Some Free Folk from the 
Mornset Countryside and pilgrims of the Wild- 
mother do take great pains to travel here and revel in 
the Stormpoint Mountains’ natural splendor. 
CHAPTER 
AL'DOREI GAZETTEER 
STORMPOINT MOUNTAINS 
ADVENTURES 
Game Masters who set their adventure in the 
Stormpoint Mountains can use this plot hook for 
inspiration. 
Allies of the Storm (high-level). The people of 
the Mornset Countryside and the free people of the 
Rifenmist Jungle long for an end to the tyranny of the 
Iron Authority. A group of freedom fighters who have 
heard of the characters’ legendary feats of heroism 
contact them with a request: help. They lack the 
funds to request the characters fight the Authority 
themselves, but they wish for the characters 
to recruit a clan of eyclopes that live in the 
Stormpoint Mountains, including the mighty cyclops 
stormcallers (see page 235) that lead their people. 
Once there, the characters learn that their clan is 
beset by demons who have possessed their storm- 
callers and are using their mighty powers to conjure 
a deadly storm to keep the rest of the cyclopes in 
submission. Only exorcising the demons and saving 
the stormcallers will earn the characters their aid. 
LORNA 
CONTENT WARNING: SLAVERY 
The Iron Authority is a despicable society that 
‘embodies all the evils of ruthless authoritarianism. 
This includes the subjugation of innocents, racial 
supremacy, poverty, and slavery. People at your 
gaming table may be more sensitive to this type of 
realistic evil than villains who simply wish to destroy 
the world, It's worth discussing with your players in 
a session zero (see page 149) if everyone wil still 
have fun (and be comfortable) if the game contains 
this type of evil before introducing the Iron Author- 
ity as a villain in your campaign. 
Ifyou and your players want to use the Iron 
Authority in your game, but don't feel comfortable 
with the depth of its evil, you can strip out these 
elements. What remains is a classic “evil empire” 
that wants to conquer Tal’Dorei. Its conquest can 
serve as a backdrop to the other adventures that 
your players want to go on. 
RN 
TzZ’ARRM, HELM OF 
THE EMPEROR 
City: Population 47,400 (70% hobgoblins, 10% gob- 
lins, 20% other races) 
When the Strife Emperor fought the Wildmother, he 
took the form of 
a giant of unimaginable size, clad 
from head to toe in armor of pitted iron. When he 
was defeated and cast back into his planar prison, 
his immense, divine armor remained and crashed 
to the ground. Centuries have passed, and the 
thirty foot tall Helm of Strife is now the palace of

--- PAGE 121 ---
120 
the Iron Emperor. The rest of their imprisoned god’s 
armor fuels the unstoppable war machine of the Iron 
Authority, melted down to create walls, weapons, 
and worse. 
GOVERNMENT 
The armies of the Iron Authority are strictly 
regimented, and its society is no less ruthlessly struc- 
tured. Every goblin, hobgoblin, and bugbear knows 
their place within the imperial hierarchy. And every 
being of other races, including 
a number of elves who 
have betrayed the Orroyen in hopes of gaining power 
within the Authority, know their place beneath the 
goblinkin. Iron Emperor Tz’Jarr 
is the supreme mili- 
tary commander of the empire, loyally served by the 
four royal generals that rule the empire's individual 
city-states. Tz'Jarr is unimaginably old, and it is said 
that his clerics have used blood magic granted to 
them by their god to sustain him beyond his years. 
The 
military government of the Iron Authority is 
headquartered in Tz’Arrm. Its cultish generals are 
doggedly focused on maintaining the Authority's war 
machine—and their own personal power. Beneath 
these generals are innumerable propagandists, 
military officials, slave-owning nobles, and their 
cronies, all of whom ravenously seek a way to climb 
the ladder of power. No elections are held; positions 
are only vacated in the event of death or promotion, 
and all leaders are appointed by the emperor or an 
immediate superior. 
SOCIETY 
As the capital of an empire with an insatiable appe- 
tite for expansion and conquest, Tz’Arrm is awash 
with propaganda and crawling with secret police. In 
addition to being the headquarters of the military, 
TzArrm is also the center of operations for the 
Gauntlet, the empire's intelligence and espionage 
sion. As the children of the Strife Emperor, loyal 
goblinkin are seen as the supreme citizens of the 
empire. The upper echelons of the Iron Authority are 
filled almost exclusively by hobgoblins, for the Iron 
Emperor has declared them the strongest and most 
worthy children of their god. By the same token, 
goblinkin who betray the empire are seen as the ul 
mate traitors, and suffer a fate worse than death. 
Those 
wealth and status within the empire 
are constantly paranoid about falling out of favor. 
Even great generals see all those around them as 
hungry wolves waiting to gobble them up. At the 
bottom rungs of society are the serving class, who 
eke out a meager existence as indentured servants 
for the elite, or as merchants who are bound to what- 
ever master owns their shop. Beneath even them are 
slaves, most of whom are prisoners of war. 
SLAVERY 
‘The armies of the Iron Authority have captured tens 
of thousands of slaves during their wars of conquest 
across Rifenmist. The slaves of Tz’Arrm are mostly 
used as laborers, sent to chisel iron scraps from the 
Strife Emperor's fallen armor, or to venture back 
into the lower jungles to forage for food. The elite of 
the Iron Authority sometimes play at benevolence by 
granting comfortable jobs indoors to slaves skilled 
in the arts—such as personal portrait-painters, musi- 
cians, or sculptors. Such kindnesses are rarely a 
sign of true mercy; they are more likely a simple (and 
meager) expression of guilt. 
Groups of slaves that pass in and out of the city to 
labor in the armor yards or furnaces are escorted 
bya military detachment whose primary purpose 
is to discourage escape. The powerful people of 
the city prize their elven slaves above all others, 
passing them down like 
1s from 
i 
to generation. Elves are treasured possessions by the 
Authority's despicable elite, not just because of their 
beauty and long life, but because of how difficult it 
is to procure slaves from the sheltering boughs of 
the jungle. 
GEOGRAPHY AND CLIMATE 
‘Tz’Arrm is hellishly hot. The black stone of the 
Beynsfal Plateau and the iron walls of the city 
trap the heat of the relentless Rifenmist sun. The 
imperial elite enjoy spells that cool their homes and 
shelter them from the sun, but those who toil under 
the sun pay a heavy price. The Authority's hobgoblin 
elite are well suited to such a climate, but their goblin 
and bugbear slaves suffer as they toil—as do the 
Orroyen elves, whose life in the shady, humid boughs 
of the Rifenmist Jungle has left them unprepared for 
the blistering heat of the plateau. 
VERDANT EXPANSE 
East of the Stormerest Mountains, hundreds of miles 
of massive, unbridled forest shroud the landscape in 
mystery and shadow. This dense greenwood was for 
centuries traversed by few but the elves of Tal'Dorei, 
for it was known to be their domain, and theirs alone. 
Even in the time of Zan Tal'Dorei, when her rebels 
and their elven allies saved the realm from tyranny, 
it was understood that the coasts were humanity's 
domain, and the woods were that of elvenkind, 
Times have changed, however. The alliances formed 
to oppose Thordak the Cinder King united virtually 
all of Tal'Dorei’s disparate peoples, and many more 
than simply elves now walk the shaded paths of the 
Verdant Expanse. Even so, much of the Expanse 
is protected by the watchful eyes of the Wardens of 
Syngorn, as it has been for hundreds of years. 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 122 ---
Wildmother, Moonweaver 
Minority Faiths: Matron 
of Raven 
Knowing Mentor, Stormlord, 
Serpent, Spider Queen 
Imports: Precious gems, grain, gold 
pons, Ne 
meat and vegetables, enchantments 
Merchants travel from Emon to Syngorn along 
roads sanctioned for trade, hunters both human and 
elven alike seek glory in tracking the wild beasts that 
roam the untamed wilderness, and bands of dark elf 
raiders from Ruhn-Shak prowl the forest under cover 
of night. This enchanted wood holds the decay of the 
seasons at bay, and its trees are green year-round. 
‘The Verdant Expanse is sustained by a massive 
confluence of ley lines—rivers of magical power 
that flow through the earth—after the devastation 
of the Calamity shifted the flow of magic across the 
world. The region is saturated with magic. Magical 
creatures flock to the forest's supernaturally vibrant 
boughs, including wayward fey, unicorns, unusual 
arcane monstrosities like owlbears, and displaced 
aberrations that call the darker groves their home. 
THE GLADEPOOLS 
‘Surrounding the southern edges of the Expanse 
lies a cluster of broken ponds and lakes that ever 
draw fresh water from the Stormcrest Mountains to 
the east, along with saltwater from the Ozmit Sea 
to the west. The strange mix of habitats across this 
somewhat marshy grassland has led to unusual eco- 
systems and odd, dangerous denizens, which in turn 
has drawn the attention of many fishermen from the 
Rifenmist region, and of Syngornian hunters from 
within the Verdant Expanse. 
‘The clay and silt gathered along the shores of the 
saltwater lakes can be refined into fine ceramies and 
simple constructs that fetch fair prices in northern 
Tal'Dorei. Syngornian tradition tells of an oracle’s 
spirit that is bound to the lakes, and when given 
sufficient offering and respect, the oracle will emerge 
CHAPTER 3: TAL’DOREI GAZETTEER 
to grant sufficiently reverent supplicants a cryptic 
prophecy. 
GLADEPOOLS ADVENTURES 
Game Masters who set their adventure in the Glade- 
pools can use this plot hook for inspiration. 
No Basis for a System of Government (any 
level). While traveling along the edge of the Glade- 
pools, an elf character, or a character with elven 
ancestry, notices 
a gleaming longsword embedded 
in the bank of the lake. No one but that character ean 
see it until they draw it from the mud. Flowing elven 
script upon the blade reads, “Whosoever draws this 
blade bears the mantle of the true scion of Yenlara.” 
Attempts to appraise the sword and discover if 
's a true ancient Syngornian artifact plunge the 
characters into a dark conspiracy that lurks at the 
heart of Syngorn: The High Warden may be wise and 
just, but she is not the rightful ruler—at least, she is 
not Yenlara’s heir. Centuries ago, someone strove to 
subvert Yenlara's bloodline. Why? And, if the High 
Warden is truly a good ruler, does the bloodline 
deserve to be restored? 
THE MIRESCAR 
Deep within the western reaches of the Verdant 
Expanse is a region where the trees grow so close 
together that sunlight is barely permitted to pass 
through their boughs. These ancient trees clus- 
ter and twist into a labyrinth of knotted roots and 
branches, while a tangled canopy of drooping foliage 
and gray moss blocks the sky from view. Strange 
powers dwell within the Mirescar, and beasts and 
travelers that wander into its depths often emerge 
with their hearts and flesh touched by 
a deep and

--- PAGE 123 ---
122 
< 
° 
corrupting evil—if they emerge at all. The woodlands 
surrounding the Mirescar 
are rife with dire beasts, 
cruel fey, and many-eyed aberrations. 
The Mirescar is the subject of countless Syngor- 
nian folk tales, many of which purport to tell the true 
story of how it was formed. Some say it contains 
the bones ofa titan. Others say that a meteor from 
Ruidus itself landed in the forest. Another, that the 
Spider Queen cursed it during the Calamity. Any 
one of the tales may be true—or none of them. Only 
adventurers of great courage and skill have the 
power to penetrate deep enough into the Mirescar to 
learn the truth and retain their humanity. 
More often than not, these tales serve to frighten 
the people of Syngorn and Byroden away from the 
region altogether. 
MIRESCAR ADVENTURES 
Game Masters who set their adventure in the Mires- 
car can use these plot hooks for inspiration. 
A Sickness Spreads (mid-level). A plague has 
begun to spread from the Mirescar. People living in 
the woods around this 
evil realm are suffering as 
they fall blind, with milky.white eyes; or their bodies 
are wracked by fevers; or they are struck by a num- 
ber of other mysterious symptoms. All are aware that 
the vile Mirescar is the source of the contagion. The 
characters are hired to delve into its boughs and find 
acure, or to at least stem the flow of disease. 
In ancient times, the Mirescar was called the 
Heartwood. It was the domain of a wise and kindly 
guardian naga named Sagacitous Erusaire, who 
welcomed all with good hearts to share their bounty 
or receive alms. However, this naga has been cor- 
rupted into a cruel shadow of his former self. He and 
his grick minions have been twisted into hideous, 
pus-oozing spreaders of disease—and spreading 
now the only thought in their minds. The naga can 
cast contagion at will, and his grick minions can do 
so once per day. Is it possible to save the mind of this 
corrupted guardian? 
Tree of Scarred Knowledge (high-level). A 
wraithroot tree (sce page 259) dwells at the heart 
of the Mirescar. It is covered with deep gouges, all 
of which open and close like eyes and mouths as it 
watches and, on occasion, speaks in a hissing voice 
to its surroundings. It stands atop a fell artifact— 
the very thing that turned the Mirescar 
to evil in 
ancient times—and has drunk deep of this artifact’s 
forbidden knowledge and its cruelty. 
The tree is excited to bargain with any creature 
that meets it, trading secrets of unknowable origin 
for the memories held most dear. It fears no attack, 
for it is protected by a small legion of invisible 
stalkers that enact its will throughout the Mirescar. 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 124 ---
THE SHIFTING KEEP 
The Verdant Guard has a secondary base of oper- 
ations, beyond Syngorn's walls, called the Shifting 
Keep. It is built within and around a cluster of mas- 
sive, living trees that form the heart of the Verdant 
Expanse, and enchanted with the most powerful 
illusion magic 
that could be mustered by Syngorn's 
military arcanists and their guild of Spellbenders. 
Enchantments woven into the keep’s foundations 
allow it to cloak its 
presence, seemingly vanishing 
and reappearing elsewhere within the forest at will. 
The Shifting Keep can't teleport, but it can turn 
invisible and project an illusion of itself to any point 
within a mile of its true location. This remarkable 
enchantment has made it almost impossible for 
invaders to besiege the keep, and it played a major 
role in Syngorn's 
victory against Neminar Drassi 
the Scattered War—tales of the unassailable Shifting 
Keep are told in Syngorn to this 
day. Nearly a thou- 
sand trained elven warriors, hunters, and spies call 
the Shifting Keep their home, though many spend 
their time patrolling and exploring the Verdant 
Expanse. These rangers are vigilant, seeking signs 
of whatever foolish invaders would dare trifle with 
the might of Syngorn 
SYNGORN 
City: Population 38,540 (85% elves, 9% humans 
halflings, 3% other races) 
Founded by the sorceress Yenlara in the wake of 
the Divergence, Syngorn became the heart of elven 
civilization on TalDorei following its calamitous 
destruction. The remnants of the fallen Court of 
Ullusa fled to the Fey Realm for a generation follow- 
ing the end of the Age of Arcanum, returning only 
when Yenlara found the realm safe to return. These 
four hundred survivors built a new home, taking 
inspiration from their 
temporary home among the 
fey, and formed the foundations of Syngorn. Though 
elves have spread all across Tal’Dorei, even as far as 
the frigid Neverfields, there was once a time where 
nearly all of them resided in Syngorn. 
This beautiful city of curving stone is built in har- 
mony with the trees of the Expanse and sits against 
the western base of the Stormerest Mountains. It is 
all but impervious to external assault—not simply 
because of its 40-foot high walls of ivy-covered 
jade, and not only because it's also surrounded by 
living trees of the Verdant Expanse and beacons 
of detection that keep constant vigil for intruders. 
No, Syngorn is virtually unassailable because every 
entrance to the city is warded by a series of threshold 
crests: massive emblems of a crescent moon, flanked 
by two trees, over a deep cerulean stone. These 
enchanted stones act as an anchor to the Fey Realm, 
CHAPTER 
3: TAL’DOREI GAZETTEER 
All here will say to you that 
$yngorn is 
a city 
without equal on Exandria. Its owe 
are impeccable, yes. Its cloisters and arches so 
ful and fine they make your heart ache, yes 
and bowers 
n said. But our dreams and memories are 
the most precious treasure here. They flicker like 
fireflies through the night, and they are heard in 
the laughter of the youngest elven child, and in the 
reminiscing groans of the eldest of our. 
—OUESTRA, THE VOICE, 
where Syngorn’s founders once recovered, allowing 
the city itself 
to vanish 
tracelessly into the Fey Realm 
as 
a final act of preserva 
GOVERNMENT 
The city has been governed since its inception by the 
High Warden (see page 63), a hereditary monarch 
who appoints proven individuals to three other 
offices alongside them as the Wardens of Syngorn. 
Each Warden carries a title and bears a responsibil- 
ity to guide the city toward safety and prosperity. The 
Verdant Lord is the head of the city guard, though 
they delegate this responsibility to a Vice Protector 
when leading the armies of Syngorn to war abroad. 
The Guildrunner manages the city’s treasury and 
oversees commerce within Syngorn's borders. The 
Voice of Memory is a heralded keeper of history and 
culture, and is often seen interacting with the elven, 
people, gathering new memories 
for the archives. 
The 
High Warden has always been of Yenlara’s 
bloodline, and is responsible for keeping order 
within Syngorn and its territories, as well as within 
the Wardens themselves. 
SOCIETY 
Syngorn is steeped in elven tradition that dates back 
to before the Divergence. The arts are lauded and 
revered, the pursuit of knowledge is respected and 
encouraged, and some training in refined martial 
techniques is culturally expected. The idea of trade 
between other cities and nations is understood to be 
both healthy and beneficial, but most foreign trade 
and travel is relegated to outer areas of the city. 
There was a time that few forei 
gorn’s 
innermost reaches, but that 
Syngorn's gates are open to travelers from across 
Tal'Dorei—though all who visit the 
city are bound by 
Syngorn's strict cultural laws to respect their mil- 
lennia-old traditions. Any who disrespect the ways 
of Syngorn are warned but once, and are thrown 
out of the city thereafter. Delicate crafts by Syngor- 
nian hands are sought after by collectors around the 
world, so many Syngornians take up the trade for 
both profit and honor. 
123

--- PAGE 125 ---
124 
Ina populace made up of people who are extraor- 
dinarily long-lived, having children is a rare and 
highly-regulated process. Prospective parents must 
gain approval from the office of the Voice of Memory 
to procreate, and any unapproved children are sent 
out of the city to be raised in outposts or foreign cit- 
ies, All elves call such an occasion “regrettable,” and 
truly do treat it with sorrow—but the laws of Syngorn 
are clear on this point, and few elves are willing to 
speak out against rulings which have stood for a 
thousand years. 
CRIME 
If Syngorn appears free of crime, it’s because elven 
criminals have hundreds of years of experience 
at lurking in the shadows. A thriving market for 
illegal goods runs invisibly through the city’s guilds. 
Though time often seems to stand still in Syngorn, 
crime moves with the same celerity as it does in 
other 
cities—it must, if the criminal underbelly wants 
to stay one step ahead of the Wardens of Syngorn. 
The most common contraband to pass through 
Syngorn are shipments of suude, stolen goods, 
and dwarven trinkets. Many come to Syngorn to 
purchase these goods for a low price on the black 
market, but those unwilling to make a journey and 
risk being stopped by the Verdant Guard can wait for 
these goods to make their way up to Kymal, where 
they can be purchased at an outrageous markup of 
five times their cost in Syngorn. 
Most people in Syngorn have their basic needs 
taken care of by the city’s government, to ensure the 
wellbeing of their people. Nevertheless, some people 
still fall into poverty, and these destitute individuals 
are often preyed upon by pickpockets, swindlers, 
and smugglers who seek to use them as patsies for a 
paltry sum of gold. 
GEOGRAPHY AND CLIMATE 
The perpetual shade of the thick, green canopy of the 
forest maintains cooler weather throughout the sum- 
mer months, while this far south, the ice and snow of 
winter is present, but 
minimal. 
‘Syngorn is broken up into six main districts and 
has a variety of neighborhoods: 
Memory Ward. The mind of Syngorn is contained 
within a ring of marble walls in Syngorn's north- 
east reaches. A winding stair, the One Thousand 
Steps, leads up to its lofty gate. Standing in the 
center of its grand court is the mystical Sequoia of 
Remembrance, a three-hundred foot-tall redwood 
within which are stored the lives and memories of 
every elfin Tal'Dorei. At least, those whose bodies 
are brought before the sequoia and are granted the 
Rite of Remembrance, as performed by the Voice of 
Memory and her disciples, have their memories pre- 
served and added to the collective. Nearly all elves in 
Syngorn receive this rite, and a vast number of elves 
who live elsewhere write into their wills that they 
must be subject to the rite after their death 
Wisps of violet light flit about the sequoia’s ancient 
boughs, and those who look closely into their centers 
have been known to catch glimpses of eras past, 
troubles present, and things that yet may be. The 
great redwood and its spirits are watched and tended 
to by the Dreamweavers, elves who have dedicated 
their waking and sleeping lives to the protection of 
their heritage. About five hundred Dreamweavers 
and five thousand scholars, merchants, and other 
elves call this district their home. 
The elves are a culture obsessed with tradition and 
the past. As such, the Dreamweavers are among the 
most well-respected factions within Syngorn. Their 
leader, Ouestra, the Voice of Memory, 
is likewise the 
most revered and socially powerful of the Wardens. 
Beryl Keep. This fortress-district houses the 
martial might of Syngorn. Situated on a hill in the 
northwest of the city, thick walls of leaf-green beryl 
separate the di 
from the rest of the city. Within, 
these walls are rows of barracks, archery ranges, 
trance chambers, forges, mess halls, and all the 
other necessities to train an army of long-lived elves. 
At the far northwest of the district is the Beryl Keep 
itself. The near-unassailable fortress proves the 
saying that even the most utilitarian of elven things 
are beautiful to mortal eyes. Six eucalyptus trees of 
unknown age mark the boundaries 
of the keep, and 
between them grows a thick curtain of ironbark. 
‘A dense canopy of impenetrable steelfern forms 
its roof, Legend says that when Syngorn's need is 
greatest, the six ancient eucalyptus trees that guard 
the keep will uproot and march as mighty treants to 
defend the city. 
‘The Beryl Keep is commanded by Verdant Lord 
Celindar, Syngorn's master strategist. He possesses 
a crystal ball of true seeing within his war room, 
which he can use to scry upon any part of the Ver- 
dant Expanse and to pierce any illusion. From this 
vantage point, he commands his forces like a chess 
master, always one step ahead of the threats within 
the enchanted forest. So far, Syngorn remains safe 
because its enemies are wild and disorganized. Were 
they to unify, the might of the Verdant Guard would 
truly be put to the test 
The armies of Syngorn are about five thousand 
elves strong, though only about three thousand are 
within this district at any time. The rest are stationed 
at outposts within the Verdant Expanse and the 
Fey Realm. 
Tarn Ward. Syngorn's central ward is a peaceful 
commerce district surrounding Lake Ywynnlas and 
split by the channels that feed it. From sunrise to 
sunset, no business is conducted here, save for food 
service at public houses and beds at inns. During the 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 126 ---
daylight hours, elves socialize, play, sing songs, write 
poetry, paint great works of art, and meditate here. 
Elves are longtlived, and if half the day is not spent 
in peace and selfimprovement, it is thought that the 
day was truly wasted, no matter how productive one 
might have been in matters of business. 
Atnightfall, however, the Tarn Ward changes. The 
Tarn Thoroughfare opens at moonrise, lit only by 
the heavens and by magical, floating lanterns. The 
streets are silent but for the ethereal elvensong that 
guides those who know how to listen through the 
streets. Elves and half-elves raised in Syngorn know 
this musical 
language, but those unfamiliar with it 
must use a comprehend languages spell to follow the 
melody. When the river of sound guides a customer 
to a vendor, they speak in hushed Elvish, like an audi- 
ence whispering at the theatre. 
Most shops along the Tarn Thoroughfare are 
affiliated with one of three guilds—the Spellbenders’ 
Guild, the Elvencraft Alliance, or the Mithral Fellow- 
ship—and the sly Guildrunner Rawndel sits at the 
head of all three. The Warden of this district, Rawn- 
del lives in a permanent magnificent mansion with a 
facade adorned with splendid 
fey grotesques, and is 
respected by elven merchants and nobles alike. The 
elves don't seem to mind his 
monopoly on Thorough- 
fare trade, as their lives haven't been affected much, 
but High Warden Tirelda worries 
of the long-term 
consequences of Rawndel's power-hungry behavior. 
a, 
SYNGORNIAN Goops 
Any basic goods can be purchased in Syngorn at 
twice their usual cost. These goods, however, are 
of fine elven make. Weapons have 
a +1 bonus to 
damage rolls, horses and other mounts increase 
their movement speed by 10 feet, and other items 
are possessed of unearthly beauty and preternatu- 
ral durability. All common magic items can be easily 
found here, and any uncommon magic item has 
50% chance of being found here in the ward’s. 
many market stalls. Finding magic items of greater 
rarity requires a character to make a DC 21 Cha- 
risma (Investigation) check to find a rare item, or a 
DC 25 (Investigation) check to find a very rare item. 
These items are rarely for sale, and can only be 
bartered for—typically by completing a dangerous 
quest for the person who possesses them. 
Emerald Citadel. The great palace of 
Syngorn 
looms high over the north of the city—a mighty castle 
of faded white marble, now covered with climbing 
ivy and sprouting plants. As the highest point in the 
gradually sloping city, its emerald-tipped spires can 
be seen from anywhere below. Visitors to the citadel 
first climb a grand set of stairs, curved like a flowing 
river of marble, before reaching its brass gates. The 
Verdant Guard aggressively protects the castle's 
CHAPTER 
3: TALDOREI GAZETTEER 
main entrance, rejecting any commoner who does 
not have an invitation to the palace marked with the 
High Warden's seal. High Warden Tirelda’s mono- 
cled majordomo, a silver-haired elf named Ibbimas, 
screens all of the High Warden's supplicants. 
The palace’s high, vaulted ceilings are supported 
by pillars of gleaming marble carved in the image of 
tall elm trees, such that the ceilings are a canopy of 
polished stone. Beautiful portraits and busts of past 
Wardens line the walls, along with opulent tapestries 
of Yenlara and the creation of Syngorn. The citadel 
is made up of four main levels. The basement levels 
hold the castle dungeons, as well as grand vaults 
containing fabulous treasure, historical artifacts, and 
overwrought gifts— the latter given by emissaries 
uncertain of how to present a gift fine enough for an 
elven monarch. The first floor holds lush quarters for 
ambassadors and visiting dignitaries. The second 
floor’s chambers are dedicated to business of state, 
including the High Warden's throne room. The tow- 
ers above the citadel contain studies and quarters for 
the High Warden and her family. 
Feygrove. A once-splendid manor house in south- 
ern Syngorn is now completely overgrown with plant 
life. Massive mulberry trees sprout at odd angles 
‘out of windows and through gables, and fairy lights

--- PAGE 127 ---
LEGEND 
1 Blocncraftsllisnce 
Mitral elleshi 
3 Baer Beli 
dance around the house at all hours of the day. When 
Syngorn returned from the Fey Realm after the 
Conclave's defeat, the elves unintentionally brought 
alittle of the Fey Realm with them. A number 
of 
fey creatures slipped through a gate from the Fey 
Realm to Exandria, then wriggled through Syngorn's 
defenses and made their home in the mansion of 
an elven noblewoman named Lady Ladri Il'shavfa. 
She has tried for years to reclaim her home, but 
even the patience of elves wears thin; the fey are 
simply too numerous and too tenacious to be kicked 
out for good. 
The fey interlopers, however, are having the time 
of their lives. Far from merely throwing nightly 
parties—though they do that, too—they have made 
I’shavfa Manor a place for them to experiment with 
wild new magic. Their leader, a pixie prince named 
Windybranch, has found great pleasure in planting 
strange fey plants in the house and watching as 
they integrate with the mansion. The house is now 
a living, breathing, thinking thing—a new friend 
for the fey! It keeps the elves out and it’s a great 
conversationalist! To the fey, this arrangement has 
no downsides! The fairies have named this manor 
after the Archfey who first allowed them 
into the city. 
To them, their new home is Artagan’s Lodge (and 
it’s said that the Archfey Artagan occasionally stays 
within its walls when he visits Tal'Dorei). 
Since the Feygrove was first “founded” over 
twenty years ago, the fey have spilled out of Il/shavfa 
Manor and made an entire district of the city into 
their home. By this point, only the most stubborn 
of elven nobility 
still gripe about “the fey menace” 
within their midst. Most of Syngorn’s residents are 
delighted to have a district filled with the fey, even 
if it causes the southern end of the city to be a little 
more chaotic than usual, The fey here seem to have 
ind hearts, and their chaos rarely crosses the line 
from churlish pranks 
into cruelty. 
Reverie Walks. The artistic and spiritual center 
of Syngorn is a winding labyrinth of living trees and 
stones. Elves who seek a day-long (or days-long) jour- 
ney of meditation may wander the Reverie Walks, 
entering a trance-like state as they do so. Those who 
seek true enlightenment may dedicate years of their 
near-immortal lives to wandering the ever-shifting 
labyrinth, finding peace in isolation or in search of 
the Stone of the Arch Heart in the labyrinth’s center. 
An elven monk named Lyssev Sorveline has walked 
the labyrinth for five hundred years, seeking answers 
to questions even the gods do not know. Some 
elves leave gifts of food for the Wanderer within the 
labyrinth, allowing them to continue their eternal 
meditation in peace. 
No Warden holds sway over the Reverie Walks, 
Legend holds that the living stones and trees that 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 128 ---
shift the labyrinth are devotees of the Arch Heart 
that swore to be their god's eternal wardens. 
POINTS OF INTEREST 
‘Syngorn has a number of famous landmarks. They 
are keyed to the map of Syngorn. 
1. Elvencraft Alliance Guildhall. The Elvencraft 
Alliance is supposedly the oldest guild in Syngorn. 
They are entrusted with creating works of art that 
spread the culture of Syngorn far and wide across 
Tal'Dorei. The front rooms of their guildhall are 
‘a museum of fine elven crafts from ages past, and 
they're open to all who wish to appreciate Syngorn’s 
cultural heritage. 
2. Guildrunner’s Mansion. Guildrunner Rawn- 
del, Warden of the Tarn Ward, makes his home 
within a permanent magnificent mansion. Its exterior 
is a magnificent facade of stone and leering fey 
statues, yet if one were to look inside, they would find 
it completely empty. The door, which is constantly 
locked to all but the Guildrunner and his guests, is 
actually a portal to an extradimensional space con- 
taining a manor of supernatural beauty and luxury. 
3. Mithral Fellowship Guildhall. The master 
metallurgists and smiths of the Mithral Fellowship 
are tasked with arming the Verdant Guard and the 
armies of Syngorn. In peacetime, they turn their 
talents to creating things of beauty from metal and 
jewels, sometimes in tandem with the artists of the 
Elvencraft Alliance. Due to their military involve- 
‘ment, none but authorized members of the fellowship 
are allowed within their guildhall. 
4. One Thousand Steps. This winding stair is the 
only way in or out of the Memory Ward. Each step 
is inscribed with an ancient elven idiom, aphorism, 
or impossible philosophical question. Anyone who 
enters the Memory Ward is told to read the aphorism 
upon the first step and ponder it the entire time they 
are climbing the stairway. If they find peace in their 
answer, they are to read the inscription of the second 
step on their next journey, and so on. There are 
few, even among the elves, who have pondered the 
inscriptions of all of the steps to their satisfaction. 
5. Spires of Yurek. Roads lined with dormitories 
and vendors radiate out from the branches of the 
Sequoia of Remembrance to the walls of the Memory 
Ward, providing essentials for not only the Dream- 
weavers, but the elven scholars who teach, study, and 
experiment with magic within the Spires of Yurek. 
This academy was named for Yurek Windkeeper, 
founder of the Arcana Pansophical and personal 
counselor to the Voice of Memory herself. The school 
is small compared to Emon's magnificent Alabaster 
Lyceum, but its seven marble towers are no less 
awe-inspiring. Characters who visit the Spires of 
Yurek can learn any historical fact by studying its 
tomes for one hour and then making a successful 
AL’DOREI GAZETTEER 
CHAPTER 
DC 20 Intelligence (History) check. They can even 
uncover hints toward long-lost secrets by completing 
a day's study and then succeeding on a DC 25 Intel- 
ligence (History) check. New spells are constantly 
being invented here, and countless tomes filled with 
ancient spells can be found within the libraries. 
6. Tower of Moonlight. Most visitors to Syngorn 
doubt that Ouestra, the Voice of Memory, truly dwells 
in a tower of moonlight. It is the truth. Her tower 
does not exist under the light of the sun, and then 
appears as a semi-solid pillar of Catha’s silvery glow, 
occasionally veined by lines of Ruidus’s ruddy light 
when the smaller moon is full. Its inside has suppos- 
edly never been seen by any but the other Wardens of 
Syngorn, and a thousand rumors circulate through- 
out the realm of the magical and divine marvels that 
must be contained within. 
7, Spelibenders’ Guildhall. The Verdant Expanse 
is saturated with magic. The ley energies that suffuse 
the greenwood make it easy for arcanists to create 
works of spelicraft by themselves, when it might 
take a half-dozen mages working in concert in other 
lands. Many of Syngorn’s most trustworthy magi are 
members of the Spellbenders, a guild dedicated to 
creating new spells and using them to create works 
ofart, defend their homeland, and improve their 
peoples’ lives. Their guildhall is only accessible to 
those with the express permission of Guildrunner 
Rawndel. 
8. Stone of the Arch Heart. In the heart of 
the Reverie Walks is a column of pure diamond, 
carved in the radiant likeness of an androgynous 
elf, Though the Arch Heart is worshiped throughout 
Tal'Dorei as a god of magic and art, they are some- 
thing more to the elves of Syngorn: a progenitor of 
their people, a deity of fatherhood and motherhood, 
yet also of neither—a liminal god that by their very 
nature both embraces and destroys binaries. Elves 
that are “born of the Arch Heart” are honored within 
Syngorn, and many who seek that honor wander 
the Reverie Ward in search of the Stone, longing 
for physical transformation, social power, or arcane 
might. Some search for centuries and never find it, 
but in times of peril, the Arch Heart always makes 
their wisdom known to those who truly need it. 
SYNGORN ADVENTURES 
Game Masters who set their adventure in Syngorn 
can use this plot hook for inspiration, 
The River Does Not Run Through It (low-level). 
Word arrives from Verdant Scouts that the Feshun 
River has stopped emptying into the Ozmit Sea 
without warning. The powerful flow from the Tormor 
Falls shows no signs of dwindling river flow, so the 
party is sent to investigate, only to find a sudden 
ikhole that has consumed a small section of the 
Expanse, causing the river to pour into this massive, 
127

--- PAGE 129 ---
128 
underground cavern. The rock and earth below 
appears to be crumbling at an accelerated pace, 
and the air below smells of decay. What could be 
the source of this rapid destruction, and how can it 
be remedied? 
TORMOR FALLS 
Feeding the mouth of the rushing Feshun River that 
carves through the body of the Expanse, Tormor 
Falls is an 
incredible multi-level series of waterfalls 
that cascade down the eastern side of Orencleft 
Mountain for hundreds of feet. Swelling with every 
major rainfall, and beautiful to behold at all times 
of the year, Tormor Falls is also host to a number 
of caves that hide beneath the mist and spray, 
leading beyond the forest and under the Stormerest 
Mountains. 
A squad of Verdant Guard patrols the base of the 
falls, and many have explored the caverns in the 
past. Some return with nothing; others discover 
old relics and trinkets from the earliest days of 
Tal'Dorei, or even from the time of the Calamity. It's 
rare for a patrol to fail to return, but when they do, no 
‘search party has ever been able to make contact with 
survivors, or to reclaim their remains. The guard 
has begun to whisper that the cave entrances move, 
shifting with each rising sun. The superstitions sur- 
rounding the caves around Tormor Falls have grown, 
So great that expeditions which fail to return are no 
longer searched for at all, and no patrols go inside 
the caves without a critically important reason. 
TORMOR FALLS ADVENTURES 
Game Masters who set their adventure in the Tormor 
Falls can use this plot hook for inspiration. 
This Cave Was Made for Me! (mid-level). Charac- 
ters that travel the edge of the Verdant Expanse hear 
distressing news that people from small villages, and 
even from Syngorn, have disappeared in the night 
and now, a friend of the party has joined the ranks 
of the missing. What they don't know is that these 
people are leaving the village themselves, hypnoti- 
cally drawn to the caves behind Tormor Falls by an 
aboleth living within a pool deep inside the cave sys- 
tem. The beings that emerge from those caves are no 
longer humanoid, but nightmarish mockeries of life. 
VUES’DAL WATERS 
Scattered Villages: 
Population 2,420 (52% elves, 
28% goblinkin, 12% lizardfolk, 5% humans, 3% 
other races) 
The voleano known as Mt, Vuesdal erupted for the 
last time in the early days of the Age of Arcanum. 
Its explosion shook the earth so terribly that the 
mountain itself was swallowed, creating the Vues'dal 
Basin at the edge of the Stormcrest Mountains. 
Today, the basin has been completely filled by the 
Feshun River, and the land around the Vues‘dal 
Basin is among the most fertile farmland in southern 
Tal'Dorei. The villages of the Vues‘dal Waters are 
known for their prize produce, exporting tomatoes, 
cherries, pumpkins, lentils, sweet potatoes, and 
dozens of other foods, both staples and luxuries, to 
Syngorn—and from there, to the rest of Tal'Dorei. 
The people of the Vuesdal Waters are mostly 
elves, but over the years they've been joined by some 
of the local lizardfolk that have dwelt in the marshes, 
as well as goblinkin fleeing the Iron Authority to 
the south. All of these various people have banded 
together to create something beautiful around the 
caldera of this long-dead voleano—and to repel 
bandits and monsters from the nearby marshes. The 
lizardfolk hate fighting their kin, but human and 
lizardfolk bandits alike have made the wetlands their 
home, and prey upon these honest farmers from 
encampments that shift from week to week. 
VUES’DAL ADVENTURES 
Game Masters who set their adventure in the 
Vues'dal Waters can use this plot hook for 
inspiration. 
Legions of the Reptile God (mid-level). The 
people of Vuesidal have unwittingly been skirmish- 
ing with the vanguard of a force that wishes to bring 
Syngorn to its knees. The spirit naga Maledicta 
Hexos has come from below the Stormerest Moun- 
tains to rally the lizardfolk tribe in the name of the 
Cloaked Serpent. Vues‘dal will soon be overrun, and 
the Verdant Guard has called for Emon’s aid in driv- 
ing back the legions of this monster with delusions 
of godhood. 
Maledicta’s armies contain not just countless 
lizardfolk, but also several hydras, and a night hag 
that serves as her lieutenant. Maledicta is also in 
possession of one of the Astural Scrolls, an artifact 
looted from Wrettis (see page 112) that grants her 
uncanny cosmic powers. 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 130 ---
BLADESHIMMER 
P 
Majority Faiths: Lawbe: 
Platinum Deagon 
SHORELINE 
Minority Faiths: 
Moonweaver, Matron of Ravens, 
Dawnfather, Lord of the Hells, 
Scaled Tyrant 
Imports: Precious and industrial metals, lumbe 
Exports: Stone, lumber, ships, fish, grain, producé 
Cobalt, gold, livestock 
The Bladeshimmer Shoreline, named for the distant 
glimmering of sun across the Ozmit Sea, stretches 
across the central western coast of Tal’Dorei. This 
coast is where humans, halflings, and gnomes first 
set foot on the continent of Tal'Dorei, and it bears the 
marks of their first steps on this land. It’s also home 
to the present heart of the Republic of Tal'Dorei 
The shoreline is 
a hub of international trade, 
for the western coast of Tal’Dorei 
is closest to the 
continents of Issylra and Marquet. Dozens of tall- 
masted trading ships set sail to and from its calm 
shores each day—as well as the majestic skyships 
that daily soar in and out of the resplendent capital 
city of Emon. 
Inland Bladeshimmer is mostly temperate grass- 
land, intercut by cool, winding rivers. The bulk of 
western Tal’Dorei’s produce comes from farms here, 
blessed with clean water and non-salinated soil, 
despite the ocean's proximity. Emon’s presence lends 
the region stability. Nevertheless, the yeomen li 
beyond the city’s walls struggle to defend th 
plots from burrowing ankhegs, 
corrupting fiends, 
and the various folklor 
and monsters that 
lurk in the shadows of their minds. 
DAGGERBAY 
Daggerbay, so named for the jagged Slumber Reef 
that flanks the bay, was where the first human 
colonists of Tal’Dorei made landfall. In that bygone 
time, it was a bustling port for the human city of Port 
O'Noa. It has since fallen into disuse after the Scat- 
tered War and the destruction of O’Noa. Centuries 
later, the bay is now naught but a haunting reminder 
of darker days. It is home to hundreds of sunken 
ships and the bodies of their lost crew, deep below 
the depths of the reef. Those who know of their his- 
tory say that the 
waters are cursed, and the nearby 
settlers spread rumors of ghost ships and sirens 
calling looters to their grave should they wander too 
close to the ominous waves. 
NTURES 
Game Masters who set their adventure in Daggerbay 
can use this plot hook for inspiration. 
Stormbringers (mid-level). A society of banished 
merfolk have claimed Daggerbay as their domain. 
They harass any treasure hunters that seek to loot 
the wreckage at the bottom of the bay. While the 
characters are traveling nearby, a terrible storm 
forces them to take shelter in the ruins of Daggerbay. 
In truth, the storm was caused by the renegade 
merfolk. Some weeks ago, they discovered a relic of 
the Stormlord with the power to summon and direct 
storms. The coast is now shrouded in an endless

--- PAGE 131 ---
150 
maelstrom. That night, when the characters take 
shelter in the ruins, they're assailed by the mer- 
folks’ land-dwelling humanoid thugs. These brutes 
attempt to capture the characters and deliver them to 
theirleaders. 
DAGGERBAY MOUNTAINS 
The pages of history do not remember the Molten 
Titan, or when this fierce entity of liquid metal was 
felled by primordial elves at the end of the Founding. 
The entity was sealed within and consumed by the 
earth, giving birth to a range of mountains that has 
stood for the ages since. Jutting upward against the 
northwestern border of the Verdant Expanse and 
stretching 
to the Ozmit Sea, these stormy peaks 
functioned as the first boundary between the long-es- 
tablished elves of Syngorn and the burgeoning 
human colonies on Tal'Dorei during their arrival. 
For most 
of history, the Daggerbay Mountains, or 
the Iyren‘alsi in Elvish, were known to be desolate 
and devoid of material worth. Prospectors from 
O'Noa came home empty-handed, if they came back 
at all. The survivors returned with tales of bands of 
bloodthirsty, one-eyed giants that roamed the peaks 
cyclopes. Issylran settlers and Syngornian elves both 
Iearned to leave the lyren’alsi well enough alone. 
Decades later, the Emerald Outpost was estab- 
lished as a major trading post for the people of 
Emon and Syngorn. With such a valuable settle- 
ment nearby, the Daggerbays’ hazardous peaks 
suddenly garnered the interest of adventurers and 
fortune-seekers, Small hunts for undiscovered riches 
grew into vast expeditions. These incursions into 
the mountains aggravated the mountains’ territorial 
inhabitants; elven scouts reported cyclops raiders 
and cyclops stormeallers conducting strange rituals 
within the eyes of thunderstorms at night, and hun- 
gry buleties hunting beyond their normal domain, as 
if guided by some unknown intelligence. 
DAGGERBAY MOUNTAINS 
ADVENTURES 
Game Masters who set their adventure in the 
Daggerbay Mountains can use these plot hooks for 
inspiration. 
Eye of the Storm (mid-level). Groups of hi 
giants are migrating into the mountains, leaving 
their foothill settlements empty of warriors, 
civilians, 
and the infirm alike. A half-elf scout named Thun- 
derchaser has caused a stir in the Emerald Outpost 
by bringing back the lightning-charred corpse of a 
hill giant with one eye ritually gouged out. What are 
the eyclops stormeallers (see page 235) planning 
beneath the concealing stormclouds of the Dagger- 
bay Mountains? 
A Metal of Memory (high-level). The ancient 
molten beast that was sundered beneath these rocky 
peaks left behind pockets, located far below the 
surface, of an incredibly rare metal with mysterious 
properties, called orichalcum. The sudden discovery. 
has sent local entrepreneurs into a frenzy, and the 
ensuing rush has already sparked violence among 
the bands of treasure hunters. As the adventuring 
parties dig deeper, they discover that some essence 
ofthe ancient creature still lives, and it is seeking 
vengeance. 
EMERALD OUTPOST 
Town: Population 1,470 (76% elves, 19% humans, 
3% halflings, 2% other races) 
Originally established by the elves of Syngorn as a 
hidden outpost to protect their homeland from the 
growing empire of Drassig, the Emerald Outpost 
fell out of use after the Scattered War. This former 
military outpost is now an intermediary trading post 
and a place for merchants traveling between Emon 
and Syngorn to rest. The Emerald Chambers, once 
used as a war room, and more recently used as a dip- 
lomatic chamber for the allied governments of 
Emon 
and Syngorn, have these days been converted into 
astylish bazaar, in which Emonian and Syngornian 
traders can sell their wares without making the full 
journey to either city. 
EMON, THE CITY OF 
FELLOWSHIP 
Metropolis: Population 365,026 (63% humans, 8% 
dwarves, 7% elves, 22% other races) 
Emon stands defiantly against all who would 
threaten Tal’Dorei and its people. It is the cultural 
and political heart of the Republic of Tal'Dorei, as 
well as a nexus of commerce, entertainment, travel, 
education, and adventure. 
Emon is accessible only through its heavily 
patrolled gates and by skyship. The denizens of the 
city are generally well protected from outside attack- 
ers and sieges. 
GOVERNMENT 
Emon is the seat of the Tal'Dorei Council, the 
n's highest governing body. Though the council 
originally served under the Sovereign of Tal'Dorei, 
the nation's final sovereign was killed when the 
Chroma Conclave attacked Emon. Following the 
death of Thordak the Cinder King and the rest of 
the Conclave, Emon was rebuilt and the council 
reformed as the backbone of the new Republic 
of Tal’Dorei. The council and its members are 
described in detail starting on page 42. 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 132 ---
One unintended consequence of relying 
on 
magic to rapidly rebuild Emon is that the mages of 
Tal'Dorei now hold incredible influence over the 
fledgling council. Some fear that without a sovereign, 
the council will be unable to keep the arcanist 
line, and Tal'Dorei will dissolve into magocracy. 
CURRENT EVENTS 
The Tal’ Dorei Council is best known for their 
policies that affect the whole of Tal'Dorei. It is often 
ignored that the council also governs Emon and 
resolves the day-to-day issues of the city. These are 
some current events both great and small affect- 
ing Emon today; these topics can add flavor to the 
discussions and rumors the characters hear around 
town, and could even inspire new adventures for 
them to take on. 
Elemental Disturbances. Over twenty years have 
passed since Thordak the Cinder King was killed 
in the caverns beneath Emon. His wreckage in the 
Cloudtop District, as well as the Scar of the Cinder 
King, a swath of elemental destruction outside the 
city walls, have been tended to by members of the 
Fire Ashari, gradually healing the stubborn wounds 
of his influence. Yet the primordial fires that seeped 
from his body continue to linger in the caverns 
beneath the city where he died. Every year or two, an 
incursion of wild fire and hateful cinderslag elemen- 
tals (See page 231) burst through the city streets, 
causing mass chaos, expensive damages, and life-or- 
death battles for the city guard. 
Mercenary Mages. A generation ago, the fledgling 
League of Miracles hired hundreds, if not thousands, 
of mercenary mages to aid in the reconstruction of 
Emon and other cities across Tal'Dorei. 
These days, 
Tal'Dorei is rebuilt, and the few infrastructure prob- 
lems aren't enough to employ all the mercenaries left 
behind by the league. These out-of work mercenaries 
now linger around dismal dive bars and make trou- 
ble for the locals. Most people would rather see them 
gone, but it’s hard not to feel sorry for their situation. 
Walls and Slums. The city's outer walls have 
fallen under heavy criticism from politicians and 
civilians alike in recent years. Many people are 
concerned that the walls’ true purpose these days 
is to separate the slums outside the walls from the 
“respectable” districts within 
them. Popular opinion 
is now that the great City of Fellowship should do 
more to help its less fortunate, but council politicians 
continue to stall. In private, Master 
of Commerce 
Vex’ahlia de Rolo fumes that she wants to help, but 
can't cut through political red tape with her legend- 
ary bow and arrow. 
SOCIETY 
While in antiquity Emon was the heart of 
a human 
empire, the city has grown to encompass people 
from all over Tal'Dorei, and all over the world. Its 
citizens include people of nearly all known races 
from Exandria's many nations, thriving on the new 
innovations and ideas ofits citizenry. It has been this. 
way since the sovereignty of Zan Tal'Dorei, when 
the alliances she formed invited dozens of displaced 
elves, dwarves, orcs, and goliaths into her city. Since 
then, Emon has developed into a city whose people 
valued innovation and collaboration, especially in 
small, cohesive groups—virtues that some historians 
within the Alabaster Lyceum believe have given rise 
to the prominence of the modern adventuring party. 
While Emon is becoming more commercial and 
the use of gold as currency has been ubiquitous 
throughout Tal’Dorei’s history, many communities 
within the city are still close-knit enough to use 
the barter system. During the reign of Drassig, the 
humans of Emon adopted a dwarven oath called 
rudraz, an intimate promise between two people to 
repay a deed or trade. Though the rudraz is not a 
contract, the dwarves believed that an oathbreaker 
would be forever barred from passing beyond the 
Brightguard Gates of Hilmaire, the gates that allow 
dwarves to pass to the afterlife, Humans in Emon 
treat the rudraz more lightly, often using it to seal 
matters of business or politics rather than personal 
promises, but breaking this oath still carries massive 
social repercussions. Few look kindly upon a person 
with the epithet “Oathbreaker.” 
REBIRTH 
Emon has mostly recovered from its destruction at 
the talons of the Chroma Conclave and Thordak’s 
subsequent occupation. A number of Tal'Dorei’s most 
significant factions played a role in Emon's rebirth, 
and their members enjoy positions of prominence 
throughout the city. Emon was rapidly rebuilt to 
its former glory, due to the expensive but effective 
intervention of mercenary mages serving the League 
of Miracles. Thanks also to the Clasp’s underground 
networks and established hierarchies, Emonian soci- 
ety and culture was able to bounce back more swiftly 
than any other major settlement in Tal'Dorei. 
And the Tal’Dorei Council, formerly an advisory 
council to the sovereign, is now the ruling council 
of the land. Folk heroes and career politicians alike 
sit on the council. Over the past two decades, the 
council has, with many missteps, enacted the will 
of the people—allowing Tal’Dorei to transition from 
amonarchical power to a republic without war or 
insurrection. 
However, the swiftness of Emon's rebirth has 
put the Tal’Dorei Council in a precarious position. 
Not only are they socially indebted to a criminal 
faction—one whose members now command 
immense celebrity among the common folk—the 
council now owes vast amounts of gold to mages of

--- PAGE 133 ---
132 
the League of Miracles. League conjurers created 
thousands of tons of stone and steel, and each one 
of their transmuters rebuilt everything from taverns 
to townhouses and sewers to stately manors as 
quickly as a hundred laborers. Thordak’s hoard of 
plundered wealth has dwindled to nothing, repaying 
the league, and they have done the same in cities 
across the land. Some members of the council have 
already caved to pressure from factions within the 
Clasp and the League of Miracles, and subsequently 
turn blind eye to the crime and magical abuse that 
run rampant throughout the city. Barely a single 
human generation old, the young republic is already 
struggling under the weight of ruling in a just and 
noble manner. 
DEFENSES 
The Republic of Tal'Dorei has no standing army, and 
doesn't elect a Master of War—a military command- 
erin-chief—to its council outside of wartime. In 
peacetime, the Master of Defense is responsible for 
the acquisition of mercenaries and adventurers for 
tasks which require the use of force. They also have 
the ability to conscript existing militias and town. 
guards into military service and call them to Emon's 
defense at any time, though typically only while the 
Master of War is being elected. 
The only standing forces pledged exclusively 
to the defense of the realm are the elite forces of 
Fort Daxio. Mobilizing the armies of Fort Daxio to 
Emon’ aid generally requires the city to withstand a 
week-long siege. However, in case of internal stri 
there are stables positioned every fifteen miles along 
the Othen Trail, allowing Daxio’s legendary outriders 
to arrive at Emon in a mere two days’ time by switch- 
ing out their exhausted steeds. 
Emon is encircled by 60-foot-high stone walls that 
stretch from the eastern fields to the western shore— 
though a number 
of discussions in the Tal'Dorei 
Council have revolved around the strategic irrele- 
vance of great stone walls. They didn’t protect Emon 
against the Chroma Conclave over twenty years 
ago, and they wouldn't have done much against an 
army of cultists and winged gloomstalkers had the 
Whispered One led an army against Tal'Dorei. As 
skyships grow more popular and affordable around 
the world, even the council's Master of Defense is 
considering demolishing the city’s walls—making the 
‘strange case that such fortifications are prized more 
for their historic and cultural value than for their 
strategic importance. 
These walls are patrolled by lightly armed and 
armored members of the Arms of Emon, the city’s 
official watch and constabulary. They are divided 
unofficially into the Arms upon the Wall and the 
Arms on the Streets, the latter of which are assigned 
to patrol the city streets to dissuade petty criminals 
and respond to violent erime. 
CRIME 
Hundreds of miles of tunnels of varied provenance 
run beneath Emon. Most are the forgotten remnants 
of paved-over neighborhoods and secret passage- 
ways made by thieves’ guilds during the reign of 
Drassig. Others are the lairs of tunneling monsters. 
‘The origins of others still are lost forever, for they 
have already long since been turned into sewer pas- 
sages to whisk away the refuse of Emon's citizens. 
The vast majority of the tunnels closer to the 
surface are known to the Clasp and used to rapidly 
move about the city unseen. Somewhere deep 
in this network of unlabeled roads is the Clasp’s 
secret headquarters, where all manner 
of thieves, 
cutthroats, fences, and spies gather beneath their 
banner, Though the Clasp operates in major cities 
across Tal'Dorei, Emon has always been their home, 
and saving their neighbors from Thordak’s reign of 
terror gave the Clasp the dubious benefit of a heroic 
reputation. 
However, the Myriad crime syndicate from 
Wildemount has spent over two decades relentlessly 
clawing their way into the Clasp's territory across 
Tal'Dorei—dismantling their networks, poaching 
their clients, and assassinating their informants. 
The Myriad hasn't managed to completely eliminate 
the Clasp’s hold in any of the cities they've targeted, 
but that hasn't stopped them from bringing the 
‘ongoing power struggle to the Clasp’s doorstep. 
Myriad agents bargain in shadowed alleys, gamble in. 
upscale taverns, and lurk in the very tunnels that the 
Clasp relies on, waiting for their chance to unseat the 
Clasp once and for all. 
GEOGRAPHY AND CLIMATE 
Emon is not a tourist destination for its climate—the 
ity 
is known for sudden, pounding rainstorms just 
as much as for its beautiful, sunny days. The city 
is blessed with cool summers and warm winters, 
thanks to its proximity to the cool Ozmit Sea. 
Though snow rarely falls on the city itself, it relies on 
springtime snowmelt from the Cliffkeep Mountains 
to fill its reservoirs throughout the year. 
Emon is made up of the following districts: 
Abdar's Promenade. The Promenade is an 
open marketplace district and massive bazaar that 
dominates eastern Emon, named for the legendary 
spicemonger from Marquet who helped fund the 
construction of Emon. To this day, the name of Abdar 
is synonymous with both generosity and business 
savvy. Nearly everything a person could want can be 
found within the tents, carts, warehouses, and shops 
of the promenade. Its intertwining roads stretch for 
miles, and it has dozens of tiny neighborhoods, each 
with their own distinct cultures and identities. The 
promenade is heavily patrolled by the Arms of Emon, 
for its sunny reputation is shrouded by an equally 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 134 ---
significant reputation for literal back-alley crimi- 
nal deals. 
Central District. This is the largest residential 
district within Emon’s walls. It houses most of the 
city’s merchant class, including traveling traders, 
ship captains, and guild journeymen. The Central 
District is a patchwork of thousands of personal 
homes, tenements, and guildhalls of all shapes and 
sizes, peppered with small taverns and inns on 
nearly every street corner. 
These neighborhoods lay clustered together 
among tightly set streets, occasionally broken up 
by park grasses or the Ozmit Waterways that snake 
through the region between the promenade and the 
port. Visitors to the Central District are advised not 
to go out at night; the wide disparity of wealth from 
home to home here has seen a recent rise in crime, 
and the city watch seems reluctant to find a construc- 
tive solution. Residents who know the lay of the land 
have an easier time at night and can help visitors 
avoid the most dangerous streets. 
Cloudtop District. Out of all of Emon's districts, 
the Cloudtop has, in some ways, changed the most 
‘over the decades. In Drassig’s time, a monstrous 
fortress loomed over the manors of his sycophants. 
In the age of Zan Tal'Dorei’s descendants, countless 
mages transfigured that decadent citadel into a sleek, 
elegant palace. By the time the Chroma Conclave 
came, decadence had once more crept up on Emon, 
and though the Palace of the Sovereign remained 
much the same, the Cloudtop District was once again 
nest of luxury and the throne of the social elite. The 
latest additions in that era were skyship platforms, so 
that the wealthiest and most connected in Tal’Dorei 
could travel in exclusive luxury—soaring through the 
skies rather than enduring arduous journeys over 
land or sea. 
All of that was reduced to slag by the advent of the 
Cinder King. Thordak made the Cloudtop District 
his home, and the palace itself his throne. His very 
presence caused magma to surge from the caverns 
beneath Emon, where previously no fires burned. 
Thordak ruled there for only a matter of months, 
but those few months were enough to annihilate 
unknown millions of gold pieces’ worth of art and 
creations of untold value—though the greedy dragon 
took care to command his minions to save the most 
beautiful works for his treasure hoard. 
Today, the Cloudtop District is rebuilt, though the 
most stubborn elemental influences of the Cinder 
King linger in Thordak’s Crater. A new castle called 
Cloudwatch Palace has been built atop the city of 
Emon, and it contains the chambers of the Tal’ Dorei 
Council, as well as grand dining halls and guest 
quarters for 
visiting dignitaries. Much of the castle is. 
amuseum, displaying what regalia and objets d'art 
survived the wrath of the Cinder King. The private 
chambers of the palace also contain a number of tele- 
portation circles that leading councilmembers can 
153

--- PAGE 135 ---
use to return to their 
homes at night—particularly if 
they live in far-off cities such as Whitestone. 
Temple District. Some say that this northern 
district contains more temples than in the rest of 
Tal'Dorei’s cities combined. This is a flagrant exag- 
geration, but at first glance, most people believe it. 
Emon is a city of many people, from many different 
places, with many different faiths. Even folk who 
worship the same gods worship them differently, 
and have built their own temples. Legend has it 
that shrines and temples used to be built all across 
Emon (and there are still some small sanctuaries 
elsewhere in the city), but a cleric of the Dawnfather 
declared her temple the greatest in all Emon. Her 
boast was met with scorn from a nearby church of 
the Stormlord. Their clerics, always eager to rise to 
a challenge, built an even greater temple across the 
street, and soon, people of all faiths were building 
the most magnificent structures they could, all in one 
tiny corner of Emon. 
Today, cathedrals to the Lawbearer and the Plati- 
num Dragon stand at apex among smaller temples to 
the Dawnfather, the Stormlord, the Wildmother, and 
the Matron of Ravens. All Prime Deities have at least 
a moderately sized house of worship here, and even 
some of the Betrayer Gods are worshiped in secrecy. 
Anyone who seeks shelter here, be they rich or 
poor, can find sanctuary in the Temple District. 
Even the faithful of gods of strength, such as the 
Stormlord and the Platinum Dragon, have mercy for 
those who need the aid of others to help them stand 
on their own. 
Travelers and sailors come to leave tokens and 
gifts at shrines to bless their journeys, while people 
of all walks of life seek the graces of the Change- 
bringer before undertaking risky endeavors. The 
meek search for wisdom in the great halls of the 
Knowing Mentor, as the artists and wistful folk give 
praise to the Arch Heart. However, not all folk are 
drawn toward religion, nor trusting of it, and temples 
past have been exposed as frauds—or worse, cults 
who venerate power. 
Recently, an off-kilter faith to a lesser idol called 
the Traveler has found purchase in the Temple 
Ward—primarily in the form of puerile graffiti in 
back alleys. Other quasi-religious spiritual entities 
have small cult followings in the Temple Ward. They 
are generally allowed to flourish to whatever degree 
they can, so long as their beliefs don't advocate for 
any behavior that would break the laws of Emon. 
Erudite Quarter. This 
district is home to mem- 
bers of the educated upper-middle class and destitute 
academics alike. Several institutions of higher 
learning have their stately campuses here, ranging 
from well-to-do boarding schools to Tal’ Dorei’s most 
premiere academic and arcane institutions. 
Beautiful towers in ancient Syngornian style 
stretch to the sky across a cityscape of centuries-old 
halls of learning and student boardinghouses. Here, 
the finest schools and colleges draw the wealthy, the 
gifted, and the brilliant—and none more so than the 
Alabaster Lyceum, often lauded as the largest and 
most accomplished institute of arcane study on the 
continent. Though the district's walls were shattered 
and its libraries crushed during the invasion of the 
Chroma Conclave, the Erudite Quarter has thank- 
fully been mostly reconstructed, thanks to the efforts 
of the Lyceum’s staff and students. 
Members of the Lyceum, under the direction of 
Headmaster Thurmond Adlam, performed the recon- 
struction themselves not simply because 
they sought 
to project an image of good work ethic and self-suf- 
ficiency, but because the heads of their colleges 
distrust the League of Miracles. Their motives and 
sources of funding are, in the eyes of the Lyceum, too 
opaque to be trusted. Their suspicion has often been 
derided either as elitism over the diverse array of 
mercenary mages the league hires, or as sour grapes 
over losing out on countless lucrative reconstruction 
contracts. 
Military District. Since Emon has no standing 
army, the Military District is one of the city’s small- 
est wards. Nevertheless, it has the capacity to house 
and train a vast number of soldiers if an army needs 
to be levied from the people of Tal'Dorei. The Mili- 
tary District is mostly filled with several prisons and 
jails, including the infamous Black Bastille, as well 
as tightly locked barracks and 
instructional facilities 
for the Arms of Emon. 
Cemetery District. This smaller section of the 
is filled with graveyards and small religious 
sanctuaries so that people with means to purchase 
a gravesite or a mausoleum can bury their dead in 
whatever luxury they can afford. Countless grave- 
stones line the rolling hills of the district. They are 
sectioned off from the roads by tall iron fences, with 
mausoleums of more affluent families dotting the 
grassy hillsides. As surface space grew limited in 
centuries past, the city excavated a network of cata- 
combs called the Undervaults. Upkeep, expansion, 
and general safeguarding 
of the 
sites are all over- 
seen by the Gravewatchers, a guild of gravekeepers 
that have held political and social hegemony over the 
district for generations, 
Their attempts to expand the Undervaults have 
had mixed results over the centuries. Most new 
excavations meet without incident (likely because 
the Clasp has learned to keep their tunnels far from 
this district). However, excavations in recent decades 
have broken into the Crystalfen Caverns, an eerie 
cave system filled with mind-bending inscriptions 
and horrific beings. The breach was promptly 
sealed off. 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 136 ---
Yet the sealing of the caverns did not stop some 
members of the Gravewatchers from seeing an 
opportunity to gain fame and glory. Most who ven- 
tured into the caverns were never seen again, and 
those who have returned shudder unspeakably of 
the horrors they escaped. Still, passage is occasio 
ally granted to the Clasp or adventurers willing to 
pay the Gravewatchers for entry to the dangerous 
realm below. 
Port of Emon. Emon is bordered on the west by 
the Ozmit Sea and is generally sheltered from the 
worst of its storms. The vast Port of Emon allows 
hundreds of thousands of gold pieces’ worth of goods 
to flow through the city every single day: Well over 
a hundred ships fill this port at any given 
time, and 
the dock crews are ever working, carrying crates 
and goods away to Abdar’s Promenade, or to empty 
vessels for exportation. The northern sector of the 
Port is mostly allocated to the Everline, a powerful 
fisherfolk’s guild. They frequently feud with the Onyx 
Banner, Emon’s most powerful shipping guild, over 
which docks they are permitted to use. Both guilds 
keep their hands clean, but it’s an open secret that 
both hire adventurers and mercenaries to trash the 
other's ships and warehouses to intimidate them. 
Adventurers in need of fast 
cash who don't mind 
dodging the Arms of Emon can find good work as 
muscle for either of these two guilds. 
Outwall. During the reign of Drassig, a massive 
city of tents and hovels grew outside of Emon, filled 
with those too poor to pay Drassig’s extortative 
taxes. By the end of the Scattered War, the slum had 
grown toa third of the city’s size, and nearly half its 
population. Even during the reign of Zan Tal'Dorei, 
these slums continued to grow, as refugees of the 
Scattered War tried to earn enough money to find 
stability within 
Emon's walls. 
Though their conditions were still meager when 
the magnanimous Zan Tal'Dorei ended Drassig’s 
iron rule, the city’s denizens chose to remain, having 
created a community with its own culture of inex- 
pensive living and brotherhood in poverty, away from 
the bustle of the city's inner streets. A microcosm 
of Emonian society now exists within the city of 
Outwall, including its own trade square, shrines for 
worship, and makeshift farms on the outskirts. 
As early as two decades ago, Outwall was called 
the Upper Slums—a derogatory name given to it by 
Emon's Cloudtop elite. People within Outwall tried 
to transform the term “Upper Slums” into a symbol 
of civic pride, but it never stuck. The name Out- 
wall eventually emerged after community leaders 
demanded an audience with the Tal'Dorei Council 
in an event that came to be called the Outer Wall 
Debates—for they demanded the council convene in 
the slums’ own town square. 
These days, Outwalll is becoming a trendy place to 
live, thanks to its vibrant culture and relatively inex- 
pensive 
housing. Its locals are fighting hard to keep 
young people with money to burn from the Central 
District from gentrifying their home. It hasn't come 
to violence yet, but the angrier members of the Out 
wall community clandestinely meet with adventurers 
to burn down the stylish houses and mansions that 
are driving out local residents and businesses. 
Southgate Farms. Inspired by the civic action 
of the people of Outwalll, the farmers of Southgate 
were able to break from the ugly name of “slum” in 
the past decade. This community of farmers and 
ranchers, formerly known as the Lower Slum, exists 
outside Emon's southern gates. It first formed when 
a large refugee band from Othanzia was barred 
entry into the city in the midst of the Scattered War. 
Instead of dispersing, they decided to lay down roots 
while Drassig’s armies were out fighting a losing bat- 
tle against Zan Tal’Dorei. These squatters eventually 
formed a community of farmers who petitioned Zan 
Tal'Dorei for land in exchange for providing produce 
and grown goods to the people of the city. 
Thanks to the aid of the First Sovereign, the 
descendants of those Othanzian refugees have 
become one of the most significant sources of fresh 
food for the people of Emon. Frustrated by being 
saddled with the name of “slum,” and inspired by 
the Outer Wall Debates, the lea 
Lower Slums demanded recogi 
Council as well. They were met with little debate, 
and these humble farmers are now a respectable 
part of Emonian society—even if they live outside the 
’s defensive walls. 
This southern region of the city is also home to a 
famous site of modern history: Greyskull Keep, the 
former base of operations for Vox Machina in Emon. 
This fortress was gifted to them by the Last Sover- 
eign as thanks for saving his life, The various heroes 
of Vox Machina have moved on to other homes (and 
now typically gather in Whitestone for holidays), and 
they allowed the keep to be turned into a museum of 
their heroic exploits. 
‘Shoreline Farms. Less respectable than the 
Southgate Farms are the communities along a 
stretch of murky shore north of Emon. These people 
of Outwalll have tried for decades to turn terrible, 
salty land into effective farmland, to mixed results. 
They have successfully cultivated the few vegeta- 
bles that grow in saltwater-soaked soil, leading to 
bountiful harvests of savory quattet gourds and 
the hard-to-grow brineroot. However, the farms’ 
distance from the city gives them little protection 
from dangers that city folk think little of. Adventurers 
are always wanted to protect the farms from petty 
nals and wandering 
5, but the fai 
have little to pay. Generally, only utterly novice 
135

--- PAGE 137 ---
adventurers find their start in a place like the Shore- 
line Farms—but all heroes have to start somewhere. 
The Grotto. This sprawling series of underground 
chambers composes the Clasps headquarters 
beneath the city of Emon. It's rumored that over a 
dozen entrances to the Grotto are concealed amidst 
the labyrinthine tunnels, which are both natu- 
rally occurring and a part of Emon’s sewers. That 
doesn't even begin to get into the hundreds of other 
entrances and access shafts abandoned and filled in 
for fear of discovery. The very nature of the Clasp's 
business is to keep shifting out of sight, and as such, 
the actual core of the organization moves from base 
to base between multiple subterranean structures, 
ever building further underground, or repurposing a 
long-abandoned hideout whenever necessary. 
POINTS OF INTEREST 
A number of both popular and historically significant 
landmarks can be found in Emon. They are keyed to 
the map of Emon. 
1, Laughing Lamia Inn, While the city is home 
to countless taverns and inns for the weary traveler 
or practiced performer, few are as grand and well 
known as the Laughing Lamia, Almost as old as the 
city itself, this fine establishment has traded hands 
numerous times over the years, and has expanded 
with each transition, leaving the massive, four-story 
institution a hodgepodge mass of odd rooms and 
themes, all centered around a raucous central tavern 
room filled with dozens of tables. Currently under 
the ownership of 
a brash and cheerful lass called 
Luthania Wells, this hot spot for traveling traders 
and adventurers alike rarely sees an hour in the day 
(or night) where there isn’t something interesting 
going on within, 
2. Azalea Street Park. Azalea Street, within 
Abdar's Promenade, is one of Emon’s oldest 
neighborhoods, and is full to bursting with small 
businesses, quaint homes, and hole-in-the-wall 
restaurants, such as the Laughing Lamia, Amidst 
the chaos of daily life, Azalea Street is also home 
toa peaceful park overlooking the Ozmit Water- 
ways. When the stress 
of constant battles becomes 
too much to bear, adventurers in the know take a 
moment to visit the Azalea Street Park and recover, 
maybe even swapping stories with other relaxing 
heroes. Legend has it that heroes who meditate 
among the flowers and drink in the sea air return 
invigorated by the spirit of the Wildmother. A statue 
of the Wildmother and Lawbearer dancing together 
graces a fountain in the center of the park. Once per 
week, a character can gain inspiration (as described 
in the fifth edition rules) by taking a short rest in 
Azalea Street Park. 
3. Anvilgate. Made of stark black stone and 
adorned with intricate brass metalwork, this grand 
blacksmithy is one of the most striking buildings 
Abdar's Promenade, Decades ago, a restless crafts- 
man from Kraghammer of the name Grahf Tiltkettle 
grew weary of solitary pursuits and worried that 
interest in blacksmithing would give way to the 
emerging trend of mass-production. 
Tiltkettle retired 
in Emon and dedicated his respectable fortune to 
the spark of inspiration in those who wished 
to learn the ways of the hammer and anvil, hoping to 
instill the joy of the All-Hammer 
in a new genera- 
tion, He funded the creation of Anvilgate, a massive, 
public blacksmithy where any folk who wished to 
try their hand at the smithing of metals could do so 
under the All:Hammer's guidance. 
Cheaper ores and materials were often donated by 
friends of Tiltkettle to aid the volunteer mentors in 
teaching their craft to the less fortunate, while folks 
who wished to bring their own ingots were welcome 
to do so. The location has become popular enough 
to begin expanding its facility to include kilns for 
ceramics and looms for weaving. While the tools 
are open for anyone to use on the premises, all are 
warned of the curse that will beset any wanton thief 
who steals from under the All-Hammer's gaze. 
4. Traverse Junction. The most magically active 
structure in Tal'Dorei shines like a pyramid of pure 
sapphire in the bustling center of the Erudite Quar- 
ter, its walls thrumming with arcane energy. It is 
the Traverse Junction, and all visitors to the Erudite 
Quarter stop to see it when they visit. 
In nearly every major Exandrian 
city, there are 
teleportation circles that link mages to other such 
circles around the world. Each and every one of these 
major circles has a twin in the Traverse Junction, a 
travel nexus for approved mages and world leaders. 
Any characters renowned in Emon or honored by the 
Alabaster Lyceum may make use of the Junction (for 
50 gp, if they can't cast teleportation circle), allowing 
them to travel to major cities such as Westruun, 
Syngorn, Kraghammer, and Whitestone in Tal'Dorei; 
Port Damali and Rexxentrum in Wildemount; 
Ank'Harel in Marquet; 
and Vasselheim in Issylra 
The telemagi who curate the circles are always in 
search of new teleportation sigils 
to different land 
they are willing to pay a handsome sum for the ser- 
vices of powerful and magically 
skilled adventurers 
willing to seek out and catalog new circle sigils for 
their records. 
5. Alabaster Lyceum. The gleaming white halls 
and elaborate gardens of the Alabaster Lyceum 
signal to all who see them that they gaze upon the 
greatest 
institute of higher learning in Tal'Dorei 
though numerous scholars in Kraghammer and 
‘Syngorn would heatedly dispute that claim. Regard- 
less, this place is the heart of homegrown academia 
in the Republic of Tal'Dorei, boldly striving to make 
aname for itself alongside the ancient scholarly 
traditions of Issylra, Marquet, and Wildemount. The 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 138 ---
SKYSHIPS 
Within the Cloudtop District lies the Skyport, 
a series of landing pads and observation 
towers that form a raised harbor for docking 
skyships. These beautiful vessels come in a 
wide variety of sizes, but generally are built 
toa similar scale as a coaster merchant ship. 
‘Skyships are held aloft and guided via the 
levitating power 
of three or more enchanted 
crystals, called brumestones, installed along 
the hull or topside of the ship. The enchant- 
‘ments required to produce and maintain 
these brumestones is a closely guarded secret 
by the Alsfarin Union within the Marquesian 
city of Ank’Harel, and while the Alsfarin 
—%y 
Union does occasionally sell skyships to 
foreign businesses, they retain absolute con- 
trol over their maintenance—and of the total 
number of skyships in operation. 
‘Skyships are generally reserved for goods 
and individuals who require expedient travel 
without the hassles of sea-faring dangers, but 
the cost to utilize a skyship is prohibitively 
expensive for anyone but wildly wealthy 
merchants and landed nobility, fomenting a 
sense of elitism in those who often make use 
of their services. Due to the exclusivity of 
skyports within major metropolises, few sky- 
ships in service will deviate from dedicated 
shipping routes between major cities. 
Purchasing a skyship costs 100,000 gp, 
and requires a personal connection with 
the Alsfarin Union in Ank’Harel. A skyship 
travels at a top speed of 10 miles per hour, 
can carry total cargo of 10 tons, and requires 
a crew of six to ten humanoids to operate at 
peak performance. Most skyships have maxi- 
‘mum accommodations for up to 30 passengers. Most 
skyships only travel between existing skyports (see 
“Emon Skyport,” below), and charge a fee of 2 gp 
per mile for a passenger ticket. Chartering 
a skyship 
Lyceum (for those who can afford the impressive tui- 
tion) is an unparalleled center for study and research 
of history, economics, alchemy, art, and—most of 
all—magic and the arcane. Many of Tal'Dorei’s great- 
est scholars and bards paid their dues in these halls, 
and the history of the Lyceum and its graduates are 
featured in all manner of superstitions and folktales. 
6. Cloudwatch Palace. In the wake of the Chroma 
Conclave's destruction of Emon, the towering palace 
that stood as home to the sovereign and the center 
of governance within the city fell to fire and ruin. In 
the decades since, construction began with the aid of 
the League of Miracles to construct a new palace to 
toa destination off the standard sky routes costs 15 
gp per mile, if the captain is available and willing to 
undertake the journey. Shipping cargo costs 1 gp 
per mile per 100 pounds of cargo along normal sky 
routes, and twice that to other destinations. 
help house the Tal'Dorei Council and be a symbolic 
center for all major political affairs within the region. 
The Cloudwaich Palace now sits atop the once-smol- 
dering hill where Thordak once claimed his roost, a 
symbol of Emon's enduring will and optimistic hope 
for the future. Within these high-arched halls, count- 
less chambers hold space for diplomats, meetings, 
and in the case of holidays, grandiose celebrations 
that draw the attention of powerful figures all 
across Exandria. 
7, Thordak’s Grater. 
One last unsettling element 
of the Cloudtop District is the elementally scarred 
remains of Thordak’s Crater. Even after two decades 
137

--- PAGE 139 ---
138 
of healing from the Ashari of Pyrah, Thordak’s fires 
still burn beneath the Cloudtop. The smoldering 
entrance to the caverns remains cordoned off from 
the public because of its unsightly appearance and 
sulfurous stench, and because fiery creatures occa- 
sionally try to claw their way out into the fresh air. 
The crater is often forgotten, but every few months 
an adventuring party makes their way inside to seek 
treasure or glory within the volatile caverns—and 
such expeditions are a favorite topic of conversation 
(and clandestine betting) among the politicians, 
political aides, remaining city nobility, and nouveau 
riche of Emon, 
Why Thordak’s magic lingers enough to create 
these mindless cinderslag elementals (see page 
231) is a mystery; but it seems to be limited to the 
crater, as the elementals cannot go beyond it without 
collapsing into inert slurry. 
8. Emon Skyport. This elevated port is complete 
with docking platforms solely for the use of skyfaring 
vessels. The original Emon Skyport was the first of 
its kind in Tal'Dorei, and its successor is every bit as 
revolutionary as the original. 
The Emon Skyport was destroyed when the Cin- 
der King claimed the Cloudtop District as his fiery 
throne, but like so much of Emon, it has since been 
rebuilt. Unlike other parts of Emon, this recon. 
struction was a joint venture between the Arcana 
Pansophical and the Alsfarin Union, a Marquesian 
guild responsible for the engineering and distribu- 
tion of all skyships in Exandri 
Booking passage on a skyship 
isn't cheap (ee the 
“Skyships” sidebar), but the privilege is available to 
everyone that can pay. Generally, one passenger sky- 
ship leaves Emon per week to each of the following 
locations: 
Vasselheim, Issylra (passenger ticket 
costs 2,500 gp) 
Whitestone, Tal’Dorei (passenger ticket 
costs 900 gp) 
Port Damali, Wildemount (layover in Whitestone; 
passenger ticket costs 2,000 gp) 
Ank’Harel, Marquet (passenger ticket 
costs 2,500 gp) 
Members of the Tal’Dorei Council can also usually 
pull strings to grant adventurers they hire free pas- 
Sage when on vital business. 
9. Tomb of the Last Sovereign. Uriel Tal'Dorei 
II, 
the Last Sovereign, was slain by the noxious breath 
of the green dragon Raishan during the attack of the 
Chroma Conclave. Uriel’s wife, Salda, survived him 
and petitioned the reformed Council of Tal Dorei 
to build their last sovereign a tomb befitting his 
benevolence and magnanimity. They complied, and 
the monumental Tomb of the Last Sovereign is now 
home to not just Uriel’s ashes, but to tribute from all 
who loved him, Those with wealth gave gold, while 
those whose hearts outweighed their purses gave 
more personal tribute. 
Over twenty years ago, the Gravewatchers closed 
the tomb to all, supposedly to prevent vandalism, but 
have not reopened it after more than two decades. 
‘The Last Sovereign's eldest daughter, Odessa 
Tal'Dorei 
1us. Despite her position of power 
on the Tal'Dorei Council, she is unable to dispute the 
act because of the power the Gravewatchers have as 
keepers of the dead. It has come to the point where 
she seeks to secretly employ adventurers to uncover 
the Gravewatchers’ true intentions—which involve 
the psychic influence of an aberrant creature of the 
Crystalfen Caverns. 
10. Godsbrawl Ring. Though the Temple of the 
‘Stormlord always has a fighting ring in its center, 
the annual Godsbrawl transforms the earthen, torch- 
lit sanctum into one of Tal'Dorei’s most unusual 
tournament grounds. On the Day of Challenging, 
the god of athleticism's holy day, the brawny priests 
of the Stormlord invite warriors and worshipers of 
the entire pantheon to the Godsbrawl, asking that 
each temple offer forth their greatest warrior to act 
as their god’s proxy in the tournament. The clergy 
of the Dawnfather and the Lawbearer send their 
champions, but rarely take it seriously, for they scorn 
the storm priests’ notion of “might makes right.” 
Conversely, the champions of the Stormlord and the 
Platinum Dragon have a fierce—though friendly— 
rivalry, trading the title of Supreme Champion back 
and forth each year after a bloody (but rarely fatal) 
final round. 
11. The Black Bastille. Named for its 
ash-black- 
ened walls, the ominous Black Bastille is a 
gle-story prison within the Military District that 
holds Tal’Dorei’s most dangerous 
and irredeemable 
criminals. The compound has no windows, no open 
courtyards, and only one entrance: 
two imposing 
steel doors, flanked by watchtowers. During the 
reign of the Chroma Conclave, the prison was 
one of the first buildings attacked, setting hun- 
dreds of Tal'Dorei’s worst criminals loose to sow 
chaos across Emon. The Black Bastille has since 
been rebuilt, but dozens of its most deplorable 
inmates 
still run free, and the Arms of Emon are 
eager to recover them. Some include the human 
demon-summoner Felrinn Derevar, betrayer of 
the Arcana Pansophical; the half-elf pyromancer 
Illaman Falonsong, exile of the Fire Ashari; and the 
vampiric tiefling Ixrattu Khar, cultist of the Whi 
pered One and Tal'Dorei's foulest mass murderer 
(see page 62). 
12, Walls of Tribute. Anyone who wishes to 
uphold justice and keep the peace can apply to join 
the Arms of Emon. But before a recruit is given 
their armor and takes a vow to protect the city and 
its people, they must endure a grueling training 
aS 
re 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 141 ---
140 
regimen within the tall, featureless 
stone barricades 
of the Walls of Tribute, referred to wryly by recruits 
as the Quarry. There, they are trained in the physical 
aspects of peacekeeping, instructed on the habits of 
the city’s criminal underbelly, and drilled in the laws 
and ideals of Emon. 
13. House of Discipline. Emon does not have a 
standing army of its own. The skills imparted to the 
Arms of Emon are sufficient to maintain a rowdy 
populace, but they are carefully trained to use nonle- 
thal force to restrain, rather than kill, all those whom 
they apprehend. Thus, when war comes to Tal Dorei, 
the council appoints a Master of War and levies an 
army from the Arms of Emon, as well as the militias 
of its constituent settlements. They must report to 
the House of Discipline, where they are taught mar- 
tial combat alongside the harsh realities of warfar 
Those who endure their time in the House of Disci 
pline are forged into an army ready to protect Emon 
and the rest of Tal'Dorei from the greater dangers 
of Exandria, 
14, Gilmore’s Glorious Goods. The broad, 
single-story facade of Shaun Gilmore's wondrous 
magical emporium belies the extravagance of its 
interior. Within, the 
air is thick with a dozen compet- 
ing perfumes, each more pungent than the last. The 
interior is impossibly large—certainly larger than 
its exterior walls would have you believe—and filled 
with seemingly endless rows of arcane curiosities 
and artifacts, many of whose cryptic functions have 
been lost to time. Everburning candles in an array of 
unnatural colors 
light the shop, casting tantalizing 
shadows over every bubbling phial and mystical orb. 
Those who enter the shop are first met by Gilm- 
ore’s long-time assistant Sherri, a half-elf draped in 
deep purple robes. 
If they are lucky, or particularly 
convincing, they may even meet the hero Gilm- 
ore himself. 
Even rarer a sight than Sherri or Gilmore is the 
latter's husband, a handsome elf named Darius. He 
is shy in public, a perfect counterbalance to Gilm- 
ore's bombast, but is said to have a singing voice and 
skill with the lyre that can make any mortal weep. 
Whether 
or not his husband is present, Gilmore 
is ever eager to recount his part in the fall of the 
Chroma Conclave, often winkingly embellishing his 
role in the final battle with Thordak himself, 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 142 ---
Gilmore's Glorious Goods sells all manner 
of 
magic items. Its stock varies, but typically includes 
magic items of very rare rarity and lower for the 
price range listed in the fifth edition core rules. 
Additionally, there are always unidentified items in 
Gilmore's vast back-room storage that he says he'll 
“get to eventually;” these may include one or two 
long-lost legendary items. Artifact-quality items are 
beyond even Shaun Gilmore's usual fare, but he 
might know clues to a specific artifact’s location, 
through his 
own 
nsive 
knor 
or 
rumored relationship with the Tal'Dorei Council as 
an expert consultant on matters of arcane objects. 
Magic items are expensive, and those strapped for 
cash may inquire about sponsorships and quests 
done in Gilmore's service. 
EMON ADVENTURES 
Every district, point of interest, and scrap of current 
events described earlier in this 
section could be a 
plot seed you can turn into an adventure. In addition 
to those, you can use these adventure hooks to 
involve your players in an Emonian adventure. 
Primordial Children (any level). Rumors of ter- 
rible creatures of fire and teeth stalking the sewers 
spread throughout Emon’s taverns. Such mutterings 
have gone largely ignored; however, an investigator 
has recovered what looks to be the broken remains 
of 
a large, leathery red egg, not far from a collapsed 
tunnel beneath the Cloudtop. It seems one of Thor- 
dak’s primordial dragon spawn survived its father’s 
demise and is lurking in the city’s tunnels. 
Council Business (any level). The Tal'Dorei 
Council—particularly Tofor Brotoras, Master of 
Defense, and Allura Vysoren, Master of Arcana—fre- 
quently hire adventurers to undertake dangerous 
quests for the benefit of the realm. Once the char- 
acters do a deed great enough to catch the council’s 
attention, they are contacted the next time they're in 
Emon to undertake a quest; choose from any of the 
other story hooks in this book or make a new one of 
your own. The council offers a reward equal to 1,000 
gp * the average character level of the party. 
Miraculous Escape (high-level). Master of 
Arcana Allura Vysoren covertly contacts the char- 
acters with a worrisome claim. In the middle of the 
night, a former Remnant cultist named Hammond 
Kraith escaped the Black Bastille, apparently with 
the aid of an invisible monster. She provides the 
party with the magic-inhibiting manacles he wore 
within the prison, in hopes that they can use them 
to follow his trail. What she doesn’t know is that the 
League of Miracles broke Kraith out of prison using 
an invisible master adranach (see page 225). H 
hiding out on an island in the Lucidian Ocean, aided 
by a number of Myriad mercenaries and a captured 
mage hunter golem (see page 239) he has repro- 
grammed to serve 
CHAPTER 3: TAL’DOREI GAZETTEER 
OAT 
THE SISTERS GRAST 
Mythic tales of a pair of ancient hags swirl through 
leamed circles within Emon, typically to frighten 
Lyceum students off of wandering forbidden vaults 
at night. Some folk, however, take these whispers 
seriously. A number of explorers and treasure seek- 
ers wandering the subterranean ruins of Crystalfen 
have encountered one, or both, of these wretched 
witches, returning with tales of fright, dark dealings, 
and unholy pacts. 
In reality, these creatures are elven scholars who 
stumbled upon the Ruins of Salar long, long ago. 
Their discovery and research of the profoundly 
magical location twisted their minds and bodies, 
infused them with power, extended their lives, 
and granted a glimmer of knowledge of some 
immense, unknowable purpose to the lost city. 
They've become obsessed with the mysteries 
of the ruins. The elder, Trysta, remains below to 
continue to excavate and study, while her sister 
Forscythia travels back and forth from Emon under 
the veil of a half-dozen illusions to acquire goods 
and gold in exchange for her unsettlingly insightful 
fortune-telling. Anyone who seeks the sisters with 
ill intent is rarely seen again, but those who stum- 
ble upon them often find themselves temporarily 
in service to them, a pact made out of fear and 
self-preservation. 
LRN RANA 
CRYSTALFEN CAVERNS 
Deep beneath the Bladeshimmer Coast is a sprawl: 
ing network of natural caverns and rivers that 
predate the Age of Arcanum. These tunnels reach 
even below the ocean, and have roots in early coloni- 
zation by denizens of the Realms Beyond, 
An ancient society of psychically powerful abo- 
leths and other aberrations sprung up from a door 
between worlds and conquered this subterranean 
web, drove their slaves to construct Salar, the 
Unseeable City, and slowly pressed upward toward 
the surface. Their plot was unintentionally ended 
when the final battle of the Calamity sent powerful 
waves of magical force throughout Exandria, caus- 
ing much of the underground caverns to collapse 
and the aboleth civilization to fall under rock and 
rubble. Fragments of the City Which Eyes Cannot 
See still remain, however, with surviving terrors 
slowly rebuilding from the dust within their once- 
great capital. 
The ruins of this sprawling city are now known 
as the Crystalfen Caverns. These caves are home to 
scattered veins of azuremite, a gorgeous blue crystal 
that formed from 
millennia 
of psychic energies 
existing near element deposits. Curious explorers 
who discovered the veins found that, when mined 
and refined into a fine dust, the azuremite powder is 
eres 
‘ 
M41

--- PAGE 143 ---
a strong mind-altering agent and induces temporary 
visions and other psychic phenomena. 
While a number of small, isolated entrances to t! 
labyrinth of tunnels have been discovered and adven- 
turing parties 
have attempted to chart the mines, the 
caverns are so vast and deep that either they gave up 
for fear of becoming lost, or they were assailed by 
the terrible denizens of the caverns, never to return. 
who now brave the 
caverns are foolish treasure 
hunters or criminals seeking to mine more azure- 
mite to sell on the black market. 
CRYSTALFEN CAVERNS ADVENTURES 
Game Masters who 
set 
their adventure in the 
Crystalfen Caverns can use this 
plot hook for 
inspiration. 
‘Mining The Past (any level). When the characters 
finish a short rest in the Crystalfen Caverns, they 
must each make a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw. On 
a failure, a woman's voice fills their minds, 
saying, 
“I sense someone...are you truly here, too? Please... 
am lost, and alone in the dark.” The voice guides 
them down the twisting caves to a 120-foot-deep 
mine shaft. The stones at the bottom shimmer 
with faint azure light. Should they descend into the 
azuremite mine, they 
travel through an uncharted 
tunnel and find a lone, dying aboleth with five levels 
haustion 
that has wandered too far from its 
ruined domain, 
The aboleth doesn’t seek to kill them—yet. Its 
only 
y is self- preservation, and it needs help fend- 
ing off the kobolds that have made the mine the 
home in order to reach a subterranean lake where 
it can recover. Do the characters kill it or save it? If 
it reaches the lake, or dies, they are rewarded with 
a haunting premonition of the Ruins of Salar, and a 
murky vision revealing the depths and expanse 
of the 
Crystalfen Cavern: 
RUINS OF SALAR 
In the lightless nadir of the Crystalfen Cavern: 
directly beneath the splendid Port of Emon, rest the 
eternally slumbering ruins of Salar. No mortal has 
beheld these ruins— once the capital ofa mighty 
aboleth dominion—and returned to the 
surface with 
wits to tell the tale. 
Salar is known only in myth 
and legend as the Unseeable City, because mortal 
eyes cannot look upon its alien architecture without 
destroying their fragile minds. Salar is treated as 
an urban legend by Emon’s scholars and archeolo- 
gists. Nevertheless, many believe in its existence, for 
numerous scholars have returned from expeditions 
into the deep caverns with their minds shattered by 
otherworldly power. 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 144 ---
Those who have returned from Salar brought back 
journals filled with increasingly crazed notes. The 
‘most intelligible of their writings indicate that all 
that survives of the ruined city are emerald marble 
structures of unfathomable design, seeming 
to shift 
and shimmer as the eye tries to comprehend, moving 
through time as they remain static in space. 
The once-renowned archaeologist Karaline von 
Ethro claimed to have visions of Salar, describing a 
subterranean city with twisting pillars that stretched 
higher than any tower, kissing the seat of the surface 
world from the bedrock of the earth. At the peak 
of the central pillar floats a giant pearlescent 
disc. 
This so-called Moon Disc bathes the entire city in 
unsettling, milky light that refracts eerily through the 
emerald spires. 
Karaline von Ethro is long since dead, and her 
journal—by far the most coherent record of the 
Unseeable City—is an apocryphal artifact. The 
Arcana Pansophical kept it in a closely guarded 
vault, which only added to its mystique. However, the 
journal was stolen long ago, and since then, dozens 
of manuscripts said to be the Von Ethro Journal have 
been sold in black markets across Tal'Dorei. Anyone 
lucky—or unlucky—enough to find the genuine 
journal would learn a terrible secret that the Panso- 
phical has held onto in silence for decades: dozens, 
perhaps hundreds, of aboleths survive within Salar. 
Their master, Durrom of the Emerald Eyes, lives on 
in secrecy while expanding its army of thralls and 
learning all it can about the ignorant surface dwell- 
ers, Durrom’s ultimate goal is to shatter the forgotten 
Pillars of the Earth beneath Emon and cause the city 
to collapse into its subterranean domain. 
POD III 
III 
KARALINE VON ETHRO 
Archeologist, anthropologist, and explorer extraor- 
dinaire; Karaline von Ethro was a human adventurer 
and inventor. It was her designs that created the 
‘Sunbeam Compass, a device that always directs 
the user to the sun by emitting a small light at the 
tip of the needle in a glass orb, allowing it to rotate 
in all directions—a very useful tool when exploring 
subterranean territory. However, despite her dis- 
for going mad after allegedly having visions of the 
Ruins of Salar. Karaline’s madness eventually led to 
her tragic demise at the young age of 37. 
ee 
RUINS OF SALAR ADVENTURES 
Game Masters who set their adventure in the Ruins 
of Salar can use 
this plot hook for inspiration. 
Secrets Within Secrets (mid-level). The char- 
acters are approached by Jomen Tash, an earnest 
half-elf mage of the Arcana Pansophical, who claims 
to have obtained pages from the lost Von Ethro 
CHAPTER 3: 
TAL’DOREI GAZETTEER 
EGARaE St Beer 
oe 
Journal, He shares his research with the characters 
and hires them to accompany him into the ruins, 
promising that he will guard their minds from any 
alien influence. But in truth, though Jomen was 
once a member of the Pansophical, he has recently 
aligned his interests with the mysterious goals of 
the League of Miracles. Is he leading the characters 
into danger with only counterfeit scrawlings to guide 
them, or does he actually hold part of Karaline von 
Ethro’s description of Salar and its dangers? 
SCAR OF THE CINDER KING 
It was thought that the lands surrounding Emon 
would never fully recover from Thordak's over- 
whelming elemental power. His presence not only 
incinerated his enemies—it wounded the land itself, 
After the Cinder King’s defeat, the Tal'Dorei Council 
beseeched the Fire Ashari to travel from the distant 
lands of Issylra to Emon and lend their wisdom. 
The frightful Scar of the Cinder King and Thordak’s 
Crater, both twisted by the red dragon's cancerous, 
fiery magic, were healed by the druids of the Fire 
Ashari over the course of about fifteen years—an act 
that the brightest minds of the Arcana Pansophical 
thought would take an epoch to achieve. Clouds of 
white ash still occasionally blow across the fields 
surrounding Emon, but the last lingering reminders of 
the Cinder King's terror are beginning to vanish. 
Nevertheless, the Fire Ashari left behind a group 
of four druids, led by a female halfore named Lor- 
kathar. They dwell in a small stone fortress known 
as Flamereach Outpost—a defensive fortification 
used when the scar was still spawning beings of 
flame and hatred. They vehemently warn all who 
enter to avoid using elemental magic of any sort— 
especially fire magic—as these evocations could 
cause the still tender division between the Material 
Plane and the Elemental Plane of Fire to reso- 
nate and tear. 
SCAR OF 7 
KING ADV 
Game Masters who set their adventure in the 
Scar of the 
Cinder King can use this plot hook for 
inspiration, 
Reopening Wounds (any level). The Ashari of 
Pyrah have claimed that the Scar of the Cinder King 
is healed—yet rumors have spread through Emon’s 
Erudite Quarter that a representative of Pyrah has 
been seeking counsel with the Arcana Pansophi- 
cal regarding the scar. While the characters travel 
through the once-scarred lands east of Emon to find 
their next adventure, they are shocked by a sudden 
earthquake, as the ground erupts with a serpentine, 
fiery crack. Magma and cinderslag elementals (see 
page 231) slowly seep from the crevasse, turning 
all they touch to ash. 
143,

--- PAGE 145 ---
144 
RUINS OF O’NOA (NEW O’NOA) 
Village: Population: 310 (83% humans, 17% 
other races) 
The first human colonizers of Tal'Dorei journeyed 
across the Ozmit Sea, weathering terrible storms 
and deadly waves, and made landfall in Daggerbay. 
From there, they founded the port city of O'Noa, and 
though the city quickly grew in wealth and influence, 
the early settlers were greeted with mistrust by the 
elves of Syngorn. When King Warren Drassig took 
the throne of Emon, no city suffered greater devas- 
tation than the contested region of O’Noa. It was the 
site of one of the Scattered War's bloodiest battles, 
and the arcane energies unleashed reduced the city 
to ruins and permanently scarred the land. Built 
within a cursed bay, and deprived of fertile land, it 
was agreed after the war that neither the new nation 
of Tal'Dorei nor Syngorn would attempt to rebuild 
the city, instead letting 
it stand as 
a reminder 
of the 
horrors of the Scattered War. 
Over centuries of dereliction, the ruins became a 
haven for outlaws and exiles, who named their ref- 
uge New O’Noa. They took this place of destitution 
and dust and made it into a refuge for all rejected by 
society. Though some of New O'Noa’s people were 
exiled from their homes due to fear and prejudice— 
like people of ill fate born under the full light of 
Ruidus (see page 9)—most are thieves and delin- 
quents. New 'Noa is ruled by a charismatic tiefling 
called Waken, who rose to prominence through. 
honeyed words and selective murders. 
New O'Noa still appears abandoned to the eyes 
of outsiders. Its inhabitants live and hide away from 
prying eyes, amidst ancient stone ruins and their cat- 
acombs. Those who venture too deeply into the ruins 
are rarely seen or heard from again—unless their 
loved ones can offer up a princely ransom. 
RUINS OF O’NOA ADVENTURES 
Game Masters who set their adventure in the Ruins 
of O'Noa can use this plot hook for inspiration. 
This Too Solid Flesh (mid-level). New O'Noa is a 
seedy town filled with strange magic. A suude dealer 
named Shef Silverleaf is in major debt to Waken, the 
leader of the outlaw village. The characters enter the 
picture when Waken surreptitiously hires them to 
collect on his debt—perhaps under false pretenses to 
hide his illegal operation. 
When the party tracks down Shef, they find more 
than they bargained for: his body has been turned 
to solid silver. A Remnant cultist (see page 252) 
lurks in the shadows of New O’Noa, and has been 
purchasing suude from Shef for nearly three months. 
Shef uncovered his secret identity and confronted 
him—but the mage’s magic, made chaotic by the 
suude, transformed Shef into solid silver, Waken will 
at 
if the silver-skinned man were still alive and able to 
magically walk away? And what of the cultist who 
transformed him? 
SEASHALE MOUNTAINS 
A curious range of mountains runs along the 
Bladeshimmer Shoreline north of Emon. The Sea- 
shale Mountains are named for their unique shape, 
akin to a tidal wave about to crash on the inland 
territories, frozen in dynamic stone. 
Crashing waves and salty sea breezes have carved 
miles of twisted valleys between these jagged peaks, 
creating an unusual home for the creatures lurking 
within the cavernous rock, shoreside pools, and 
towering bluffs. High tide leads the briny waters into 
the Nightwash, a miles-long lagoon that wends its 
way through the base of the bluffs, carrying hosts 
of dangerous ocean life with each pass. Conversely, 
the tidal phenomenon also brings a valuable bevy 
of deep-sea fish on occasion, which gave birth 
to the fishing community of the Shalesteps. The 
mountains’ strange peaks are decorated by copses 
of scraggly trees, stunted by the gravelly soil and 
stripped nearly bare by salty ocean breezes. 
THE SHALESTEPS 
Village: Population 770 (40% humans, 35% hal- 
flings, 32% dwarves, 3% other races) 
The Shalesteps are a series of small, allied villages 
whose inhabitants chose to live a more simple life 
outside of the bustle of the capital city, but close 
enough to enjoy imports and protection should the 
need arise. Most of their food is sourced from the 
ocean and the Nightwash tide, while a small hunting 
community wanders the peaks for avian quarry 
and other sources of meat and natural resources. 
‘Those who live here are sturdy and ready to defend 
themselves against the dangerous wilds surrounding 
them—and against the occasional monstrosity that 
washes in with the tide. 
SHALESTEPS ADVENTURES 
Game Masters who set their adventure in the Shale- 
steps can use this plot hook for inspiration. 
From Hell's Heart (low-level). The Shale- 
step village of Puddlefoot has never had anything 
remarkable happen to it. People there are quiet and 
simple, with no interest in tales of grand heroics. 
No great adventures have ever come to their rocky 
shore—until the whale. The dead whale, bloated with 
corruption, its white hide covered in oozing green 
lesions, is a source of fear for the nearby townsfolk. 
What happened to this behemoth? And why is Rill 
the Hermit ranting about seeing tall shadows spying 
‘on Puddlefoot from the mountain peaks? 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 146 ---
VISA ISLE 
Forty miles off the coast of the Bladeshimmer Shore- 
line, west of the Verdant Expanse, two islands belch 
clouds of black smoke into the open sky. Visa Isle 
and its smaller sister island have been surrounded 
by rumors and sailors’ legends since the dawn of civ- 
ilization. Some say that every night, the island burns 
to ash—giving it a distinctive orange glow—and that 
every day new trees grow to maturity 
by sundown. It 
is an island of fire and death. 
‘Those who have explored its dense jungles and 
returned claim only to have found common wild pigs 
and—at worst—unusually large fire beetles and man- 
tises, They were the lucky ones. They didn't wander 
unprepared into the Ruins of Vos'sykriss, and did not 
encounter the serpentine spirits that haunt its elder 
halls. The only expedition to have ventured into the 
Ruins of Vos'sykriss and lived to speak of it returned 
to Emon just as the Chroma Conclave descended 
upon the city. Their leader, a half-ore archaeologist 
and spiritspeaker named Jorlund Vohr, survived 
the destruction of Emon, but all his notes and the 
artifacts he recovered were stolen. Decades later, the 
aging professor is 
still hard at work creating endless 
proposals for expeditions to Visa Isle. 
VISA ISLE ADVENTURES 
Game Masters who set their adventure in Visa Isle 
can use this plot hook for inspiration. 
Awakening the Sleepers (mid-level). In ancient 
times, Vos'sykriss was the seat of a serpentfolk 
empire that dominated southern Tal’Dorei. Before 
the Calamity, their seers had visions of the coming 
destruction and desperately sought a way to survive 
it, The serpents constructed a magical stasis field 
beneath their city and chose their strongest and most 
powerful to slumber and rebuild the empire when 
the danger had passed. 
They are now awoken. The Vos'sykriss serpent- 
folk (see page 257) now prow! the island, being 
prepared by the lingering Vos'skyriss serpentfolk 
ghosts (see page 258) to claim the world for their 
‘own. When Jorlund Vohr's expedition delved into 
Vos'sykriss's deepest sanctum, they unwittingly 
ended the serpents’ ancient spell and awakened the 
Sleepers. Soon, a people long thought extinct will 
return to claim the world as their own. 
OTHER LANDS OF 
EXANDRIA 
The land of Gwessar, now known far and wide as 
the young nation of Tal'Dorei, is a sprawling, curious 
land full of adventure, danger, and glory. Though 
Tal’Dorei 
is a land rife with grand tales, the world 
of Exandria is far larger and more ancient than 
CHAPTER 3: TALDOREI GAZETTEER 
just the lands between the Lucidian Coast and the 
Bladeshimmer Shoreline. Many of the people who 
live here either descend from or are immigrants to 
this realm. 
Some of these other lands have been explored by 
Vox Machina and the Mighty Nein in Critical Role, 
but are beyond the scope of this book. You can pop- 
ulate these lands with dungeons, cities, characters, 
and stories of your own creation—or be inspired by 
the history of Exandria in chapter 1 of this book, 
and the stories in the campaigns of Critical Role, to 
create a version of Exandria entirely your own. 
ISSYLRA 
Northwest of Tal'Dorei, across the freezing waters 
of the Ozmit Sea, lies Issylra, home to Vasselheim, 
commonly called the oldest surviving city on Exan- 
dria, Issylra is considered by most to be the land 
where all civilization emerged and spread in the 
time of the Founding, making it the religious core 
for many, and the focal point of historical study for 
others. It was also where most of the flying cities of 
the Age of Arcanum first rose from the ground. Its 
people rose high—and fell hard from those dizzying 
heights, and to this day, many there still hate and 
fear the power of arcane mag 
The territory known as Othanzia encompasses a 
majority of the continent's developed regions, keep- 
ing most domains protected and governed by the 
might of the theocracy of Vasselheim. Nestled among 
eastern taiga forests of the Vesper Timberland, the 
ity 
of Vasselheim stands as the oldest known seed 
of civilization and religion, and the only city to with- 
stand every catastrophe that has rocked Exandria 
since the gods brought life to it. As the spiritual 
center of most of the world, Vasselheim is ruled by a 
coalition of high priests of the many Prime Deities. 
These hierophants are viewed by their people as 
the defenders of their virtuous society, and of all of 
Othanzian culture. 
Beyond Vasselheim’s ancient walls are frigid, 
untamed wilds, some of which are untouched since 
the Founding itself. These lands are populated by 
ancient monsters and dire beasts. Smaller camps, 
‘communities, and townships are scattered across the 
surrounding snowy plains, and those who call Oth- 
anzia home have become hardy and self-sufficient. 
Elsewhere in Othanzia, the lands of Issylra are 
sparsely populated by scattered republics of varying 
morality. Traveling between these city-states is diffi- 
cult, due to the lingering beasts of the Calamity that 
stalk the lands beyond Vasselheim. 
MARQUET 
Following the winds and waves to the southwest of 
Tal'Dorei across the Ozmit Sea eventually leads one 
145

--- PAGE 147 ---
to the chain of islands called the Hespet Archipelago 
and to the shores of the continent of Marquet. The 
pebble beaches of the Bay of Gifts greet travelers 
with the charming sights of untouched nature, and 
the port city of Shamal 
ies all to engage in the 
pleasures of civilization, with beautiful ballrooms 
and gilded gambling halls. 
Beyond the port of Shamal lies the rocky edge of 
the Aggrad Mountains, whose canyons and caverns 
house untold numbers of predatory creatures, before 
giving way to the immense Marquesian Desert. 
This sandy wasteland is rumored to have once been 
verdant jungle brought to ruin by the spear of the 
Ruiner in the Calamity. Some stories tell of a great 
hero that sacrificed himself 
to save Marquet from 
utter annihilation, but only scattered fragments of 
this tale endure. 
Near the center of this intense desert, surrounded 
by a sprawling network of smalll villages, 
is the grand 
city of Ank’Harel, known as the Jewel of Hope. This 
city, built atop the Drowned City of Cael Morrow, 
the center of culture, history, and power for all of 
Marquet. Ruled by the mysteriously undying J'mon 
Sa Ord, Ank’Harel is a magnificent haven of music 
and culture. It's not without its dangers, but it is a 
paradise compared to the monster-infested sands 
that surround it. 
The Hands of Ord, the city’s guards, also protect 
nearby villages and townships within the desert, but 
they can only reach so far. Further south, beyond 
the reach of Ank’Harel and the Hands of Ord, the 
sands give way to scrubland and marshes tan- 
gled with the volatile mountains surrounding 
the 
smoking Suuthan Volcano and the dangerous clans 
that worship it. Westward, beyond the arid desert, 
rant landscape of verdant jungles, craggy 
mountains, and magical mysteries that the people 
of Marquet have spent eons unraveling. Within the 
jungles of Marquet are dozens of cultures, some 
nomadic, some seafaring, and some with 
great 
ities of their own. One such city, founded by orcish 
survivors of the Ruiner’s wrath during the Calamity, 
is known across Exandria for its mathematically 
immaculate architecture. This realm welcomes 
scholars and travelers from across Exandria, who 
are eager to learn from the minds of some of the 
greatest architects the world has ever 
n. 
THE SHATTERED TEETH 
Few sail into the dangerous waters southeast of 
Tal’Dorei, past the ever-present fog bank called the 
Fool's Curtain, and into the Shattered Teeth. This 
cluster of broken lands is made up of forty-three 
lands, varying in size from small, mile-wide 
reef-toppers to the large, city-holding isles like 
Ruukva. Two societies dwell within the Shattered 
Teeth. The first is the Ossended Host, a vast fishing 
culture that values their independence—even to 
the point of isolationism—and self-empowerment 
through the worship of the power of dreams and 
nightmares. 
The second is the Wanderman Assem- 
bly, a centuries-old trade company that, upon being 
stranded across the Shattered Teeth after losing 
their way ina typhoon, grew into a brutal, ruthless 
society dedicated to gaining profit at all costs. It 
masquerades poorly under the banner of honor and 
brotherhood 
This tension has led to bloodshed in recent years, 
and each group is paranoid that the other is bent on 
destroying their way of life. What brims beneath the 
surface of this conflict is the nature and source of the 
dreams the Ossended Host have been harnessing for 
generations, and what that answer may mean for the 
struggles of the people of the Shattered Teeth. 
WILDEMOUNT 
Due east of Tal’Dorei, the lands of Wildemount 
are highly geologically varied, from the tropical 
Menagerie Coast, to the dour and rainy valleys of 
Western Wynandir, to the blasted wastes of Eastern 
Wynandir—better known as Xhorhas. The people of 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 148 ---
Tal’Dorei trade frequently with Wildemount, though 
| 
the waters of the Lucidian Ocean are prowled by 
pirates, sea monsters, and forgotten aquatic demi- 
gods. Such a journey leads to the Clovis Concord, a 
tates that govern the Menagerie 
ly culture of trade, entertainment, 
and the arts flourishes amidst the 
illicit activit 
of local smugglers and the ever-present Myriad 
syndicate. 
The Dwendalian Empire, an authoritarian power 
that seeks to expand its reach across all of Wilde- 
4 
mount, reigns over the center of the continent. The 
empire is ruled by 
King Bertrand Dwendal, but 
tensions boil between the Crown and the Cerberus 
Assembly, the empire's league of arcanists 
and 
covert operatives. Though the assembly's power 
waxes and wanes, they are constantly maneuver- 
ig to become the true, shadowy power behind the 
Dwendalian Crown. 
The empire's control over the resource-rich val- 
leys in the center of Wildemount has helped make 
ita military superpower. Likewise, the natural 
defenses of the surrounding mountains make their 
lands easily defensible. For centuries, 
the 
idea that 
the empire is invincible has fueled recruitment 
propaganda for 
its military, the sanctimoniously 
titled Righteous Brand. King Dwendal’s edict 
have created a 
highly nationalistic society—one 
which permits only the worship of Crown-approved 
deities, 
submits 
to mandatory military 
service, and 
y, 
jingoistically endures immense taxes 
to support the 
Crown's wars 
Across the mountains east of the Dwendalian 
/ 
Empire are the wastes of Xhorhas, 
ruled by the 
Kryn Dynasty. This society was founded by dark 
elves who escaped the grasp of the Spider Queen 
through the grace of a supernatural being of light 
called the Luxon that granted them tl 
ibility to 
reincarnate into new bodies, life after life. Those 
who are reincarnated seek to broaden the knowl- 
edge of the Luxon by living bold lives and gaining 
new experiences. Today, the Kryn Dynasty 
is filled 
with not just dark elves, but goblinkin, orcs, ogres, 
kobolds, and all manner of other peoples considered 
to be “monsters” by the Dwendalian Empire. 
Beyond the Kryn Dynasty and the Dwendalian 
Empire, and the tensions that burn between them, 
are the lands of the Miskath Strand and the islands 
of Biselcross. Both are realms twisted by forbid- 
den magic, and inhabited by eldritch abominations 
and other creatures that are anthema to mortal 
life, Yet, despite the danger, the most courageous 
adventurers of Wildemount—and indeed, all of 
Exandria—see exploration as the pinnacle of 
heroism. At the fringes of the known world, where 
monsters from the edge of reality lurk..this is where 
true adventure begins. 
CHAPTER 3: TAL’DOREI GAZETTEER 
=

--- PAGE 150 ---
CHAPTER 4 
CHARACT 
The sprawling lands and endless challenges of 
Exandria forge heroes and villains of curious voca- 
ms and abilities. The dangers of the chaotic world 
urge stalwart heroes to defend innocents in need of 
protection, while uncovered fragments of forgotten 
powers inspire power-hungry villains to seek new 
ways to bend reality to their will. The material in this 
chapter offers a number of new options for charac- 
ters to define who they are and what they wish to 
become in a Tal'Dorei campaign. 
PLAYING IN A TAL DOREI 
CAMPAIGN 
This section is for players creating characters for a 
Tal'Dorei campaign that another player is running as 
the Game Master. It suggests a number 
of tips and 
tricks for how to create a character, and how to make 
that character's story fit smoothly into the world 
of Exandria. 
STANDARD PROCEDURE 
Start by creating a character as you normally would 
for any fifth edition RPG campaign. This process 
typically involves choosing your character's race, 
lineage, or ancestry; selecting your class, back- 
ground, starting equipment, and spells (if applicable); 
and giving the character a name and backstory. If 
your Game Master has any house rules or spe- 
cial requests that change this process, they'll let 
you know. 
ANCESTRIES 
All of the fantasy peoples commonly found in Ta’ Dorei, 
including humans, elves, dwarves, goblins, tieflings, 
and dragonblood, are described in this chapter. 
rather detail the lore of each of these ance 
how characters of those ancestries fit into the tapes- 
try of Exandrian life. 
CLASSES 
All the classes in the fifth edition core rules are 
fair game in Tal’Dorei, and classes and subclasses 
found in other supplements might be available with 
your Game Master's permission. This book also 
contains the following new subclasses, all detailed in 
this chapter: 
CHAPTER 4: CHARACTER OPTIONS 
OPTIONS 
+ Barbarian: Path of the Juggernaut 
+ Bard: College of Tragedy 
Blood Domain and Moon Domain 
rcle of the Blighted 
+ Monk: Way of the Cobalt Soul 
+ Paladin: Oath of the Open Sea 
+ Sorcerer: Runechild sorcerous origin 
+ Wizard: Blood Magic arcane tradition 
BACKGROUNDS. 
The backgrounds found in the fifth edition core rules 
are all well suited to life in Tal'Dorei. This fantasy 
realm is teeming 
soldiers, guild artisans, sail- 
ors, and nobles, all of whom might make interesting 
adventurers. This book also presents six new back- 
grounds, detailed later in this chapter: 
+ Ashari 
+ Clasp Member (and the variant Myriad Operative) 
+ Lyceum Scholar 
+ Reformed Cultist 
+ Whitestone Rifle Corps 
SESSION ZERO 
The cast of Critical Role creates great stories by 
communicating openly with their Game Master 
before the campaign begins, and maintaining that 
communication between game sessions. Doing so 
ensures that everyone's stories are being told in a 
fun way, and that everyone is having fun at the table. 
To get that same experience, be sure to talk with 
your Game Master about what's important to you 
while you build your character and flesh out their 
backstory. That way, your GM will be able to build a 
story that centers you and your allies as main char- 
acters, rather than just bystanders. 
Session zero is a catchall term for a pregame 
meetup between the players (including the GM), 
where everyone can lay out expectations and bound- 
aries for the campaign. Lots of guides designed to 
give your campaign a strong start with session zero 
can be found on the Internet and in other fifth edi- 
tion books. Session zero often includes discussions 
ofthe following: 
What each player and the GM like about fifth 
edition campaigns, and what they're hoping for in 
this campaign. 
Likewise, what aspects of play people dislike or 
are uncomfortable with, or simply want to avoid in 
this campaign for any reason. 
If this campaign were a movie, what would its 
rating be? PG? PG-13? R? 
149

--- PAGE 151 ---
Which topics are fun to explore in game, which 
are absolutely off-limits due to personal discom- 
fort, and which are okay in moderation? Everyone 
should clearly agree to playing a game that 
includes topics like extreme violence; romantic or 
sexual situations; any gender, race-, disability-, or 
age-based discrimination or violence; or themes 
that involve real-life politics or religion. 
What amount of combat, exploration, and social 
encounters the players want to experience. 
What kind of character each player wants to cre- 
ate, and how the characters might fit together into 
accohesive party. 
What type of story everyone wants to experience 
together, whether that’s a meandering episodic 
tale or a lengthy epic, and whether the story will be 
driven by player actions and their consequences or 
nally, after each game, many people find it 
helpful to check in with each other and discuss what 
everyone enjoyed, wants less of, or wants more of, 
so the GM and players can prepare to bring more 
of what worked to the next session, and less of 
what didn't. 
FLAVORFUL DETAILS 
In addition to discussing your character's backstory 
with your GM and the other players in your group, 
you can think about other flavorful details to help 
ground your character in the world of Exandria. 
Gops 
A vast pantheon of deities created Exandria in prime- 
val times. Which of these deities does your character 
worship, if any? Do they worship an obscure god, or 
one commonly venerated throughout Tal’Dorei? How 
devout are they in their faith? 
The gods of Exandria are described in more detail 
in chapter 2, though your GM might want to keep 
some of the details of those gods secret. 
FACTIONS 
The politics of Tal'Dorei 
are influenced by a number 
of factions. Not all are actively hostile toward each 
other, and many are actually allies. 
But all jockey constantly for power—and frequently 
come into conflict as a result. Do you belong to one of 
these factions? Are you a card-carrying member? Do 
you 
simply sympathize with their cause, or perhaps 
have friends or family who are part of the faction? 
Are there factions you actively despise, perhaps 
because of some slight they committed against you 
‘or those close to you in the past? 
Tal'Dorei’s factions are described in more detail in 
chapter 2, though your GM might want to keep some 
of the details of those factions secret. 
RACES AND CULTURES 
Tal'Dorei is home to manifold humanoid peoples, 
from the elves who emerged from the Fey Realm into 
the untouched lands of Gwessar in the wake of the 
Calamity, to the humans who first came to Tal'Dorei 
‘on stout ships from the distant shores of Issylra. The 
familiar fantasy races of elves, dwarves, humans, 
and halflings are the most populous beings on 
Tal’Dorei, but they are far from the only peoples to 
make their mark in city and wilderness alike. 
Over the past thousand years of history, the peo- 
ples described in this chapter have left an indelible 
mark on the world. And though many of these races 
appear monolithic at first glance, all are incredibly 
ior to Tal'Dorei might initially 
perceive all elves as haughty and fascinated with 
heritage, because that’s the dominant culture in Syn- 
gorn, the largest elf-majority city on the continent, 
However, the elves living in villages and cities across 
the land are often exceptions to that apparent rule, 
and it's dangerous—not to mention rude—for travel- 
ers to assume that any of Tal'Dorei's varied peoples 
fit into simple boxes. 
This section is a resource for you to use to inspire 
your character's backstory—or to inspire your NPCs 
if you're a Game Master. Whether 
you enjoy leaning 
to fantasy archetypes, 
intentionally breaking them, 
or ignoring them entirely, this section has something 
for you. The game statistics of each of the races of 
Tal'Dorei are identical to those in the fifth edi- 
tion rules. 
PEOPLE AND MONSTERS 
For generations of roleplaying 
gamers in many dif- 
ferent RPG campaign settings, certain of the fantasy 
peoples in the world of Exandria have long been 
considered “monsters” 
or “evil races.” Goblins, ores, 
and bugbears are examples of peoples whose very 
nature was supposedly tainted by inherent evil, and 
were thus morally unambiguous targets for adven- 
turers to kill and loot. This mindset treats these 
people as no different from monsters like basilisks or 
giant spiders. 
The humanoid people of Tal'Dorei aren't set up 
that way. Any creature with the humanoid type is a 
thinking, feeling person. Creatures with the dragon, 
giant, or fey type are also unambiguously sapient, 
and thus can have any alignment. It's just as likely 
for a human to be a neutral evil bandit as it is for 
an orc to be a chaotic good swashbuckler, or for a 
hobgoblin to be a lawful good knight. And if you like, 
you can take this even further in your games and say 
that any fantasy creature with an Intelligence score 
of 
6 or higher is capable of free thought, and should 
have just as 
wide a range of alignments as other 
sapient beings. 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 152 ---
‘The stories 
in'Critical Role are filled with shades 
of moral gray, but Tal'Dorei still has plenty of unam- 
biguously evil creatures. Most demons, devils, and 
undead are suffused with cosmic evil, and always 
try to subvert righteousness. Likewise, 
unthinking 
creatures such as oozes and constructs, and crea- 
tures of instinctual intelligence such as beasts, many 
monstrosities, and plant creatures, all make morally 
unambiguous foes. 
Likewise, there are plenty of evil humanoids in the 
world. Cultists of evil gods, including the Remnants 
who worship the Whispered One, and merciless, 
blood-soaked bandits such as the Ravagers are 
clear and immediate threats to both the safety of the 
player characters and all free peoples of Tal'Dorei. 
Depending on the tone of your story, the characters 
might cut such foes down without mercy—or they 
might try to rehabilitate them. The difference is that 
these villains’ choices, not their ancestries, deter- 
mine whether or not they are evil. 
CULTURES ACROSS TAL’DOREI 
The various peoples of Tal’Dorei don't have racial 
cultures. Rather, someone's culture is based on the 
ies and regions in which they spend their 
forma- 
tive years. 
For most of Tal'Dore’’s 
history, members 
of the different fantasy races lived in largely mono- 
lithic enclaves. However, the more recent past has 
instilled in people the need to break down old barri- 
ers, work together, and live together. 
All cities and large towns have a majority popula- 
tion of certain races, 
typically based on the peoples 
who founded those 
settlements. This includes such 
notable sites as the elf-majority city-state of Syngorn 
and the dwarf-majority city-state of Kraghammer. 
Some people in Tal’Dorei might assume that certain 
races have common cultural traits that unite them, 
but many others know that this isn’t the whole truth. 
A dwarf raised in Kraghammer and a dwarf raised 
in Stilben are likely to have very different attitudes 
about family, food, faith, and all the other factors that 
make up a culture. 
Even when people of the same race gather in 
neighborhoods within a city, those people don't neces- 
sarily share the common culture of their best-known 
homelands. In many neighborhoods 
in the great city of 
Emon, for example, elves and half-elves 
are a majority. 
But since not all those elfkin come from Syngorn, they 
don’t all share a monolithic Syngornian “elf culture.” 
That said, beings with distinctly magi 
often form cultures that include their unique abilities. » 
This includes folk such as dragonblood, with their 
ability to channel elemental power. And because 
goliaths are known for their powerful, muscular 
bodies, goliath-majority societies often worship the 
‘Stormlord, god of strength, and engage in festivals 
that center around feats of athleticism, 
CHAPTER 4: CHARACTER OPTION: 
DRAGONBLOOD 
The dragonblood of Exandria are a people of 
unknown origin, and countless myths surround their 
ancestral creation, One particularly pervasive tale 
states that dragonblood were created by the Scaled 
‘Tyrant and the Platinum Dragon during the 
Calamity, serving as loyal soldiers who eventually 
carned their freedom. Regardless of how they came 
into being, though, the dragonblood lived for many 
centuries in relative isolation in the southern wastes 
of Xhorhas, on the continent of Wildemount. 
Today, dragonblood live all over Exandria, though 
they remain a scarcer sight in Tal'Dorei than in 
Wildemount. Their spread across the world was 
hastened by the assault against the free peoples of 
Exandria by the Chroma Conclave. During that con- 
flict, the ancient white dragon known as Vorugal the 
Frigid Doom destroyed the magical city-state of Dra- 
conia, the ancestral homeland of most dragonblood. 
The destruction of Draconia and the loss of many 
ofits people was a tragedy. But to roughly half the 
dragonblood of Exandria, it also marked the end of 
an oppressive regime. Dragonblood of Exandria can 
either be born with a tail or without. In Draconia, 
those with tails were called draconians or dracon- 
bloods, for they were seen as closer in form and 
power to true dragons. Those without tails were 
given the name of ravenites and enslaved. Their 
DRAGONBLOOD

--- PAGE 153 ---
blood and toil built the mighty towers of Draconia, 
yet the ravenites enjoyed none of their city's splendor. 
The ruin of Draconia thus marked the start of 
an 
era of freedom and self-determination for the rave- 
nites. In Tal'Dorei, i's apparent that any differences 
between the ravenites and the draconians have noth- 
ing to do with bloodline or draconic power. Those 
differences are cultural, and rooted in a past whose 
haven't been 
|. The opps 
that existed in Draconia remains largely unknown 
within Tal'Dorei to this day, and outside of major 
cities such as Emon, dragonblood can go for months, 
even years, without seeing another of their kind. 
DRACONIANS 
The tail-bearing draconians who survived the 
destruction of Draconia 
have been scattered across 
the world. In the time that's passed since the fall of 
the dragonblood city-state, a generation of dracon- 
bloods have grown up in Tal'Dorei’s towns and cities, 
disconnected from their parents’ privileged upbring- 
ing. Only a scant few draconians typically ones able 
to teleport away from Vorugal’s attack—escaped with 
any sort of wealth, Most other refugees were lucky 
simply to escape with their lives. 
Clinging to the Past. A social divide continues 
to grow between draconians who have wealth and 
those who don't. Many of those with wealth greedily 
ling to the shadows of their former tyrannical glory, 
but other draconians seek instead to bury the past 
and create their own destiny, on their own merits. 
Following the end of the Draconian order, the rave- 
nites ventured into the world eager to make the most 
of their newfound freedom. In the generation since, 
many have formed a new homeland in Xhorhas 
known as Xarzith Kitril, content to reclaim the lands 
of their birth, Those ravenites who departed Wilde- 
‘mount have found a new home in the cities and the 
icy north of Tal'Dorei, where they enjoy the freedom 
and privileges of equality that this land provides. 
Rebuilding from Scratch. Most ravenite children 
grew up poor, either in slum towns at the edges of 
Cities like Emon and Westruun, or helping their par- 
ents laboriously carve out rural lives in the Dividing 
Plains or Cliffkeep Mountains. 
DWARVES 
When the world was nearly rent asunder by the 
Calamity, the dwarves of Tal'Dorei disappeared 
underground to wait out the worst of the conflict. 
Many dwarven citadels once dotted the subterranean 
world, but over the centuries, they dwindled, either 
merging together or falling into decadence and ruin, 
In the centuries following the Calamity, these dwarf 
clans, isolated beneath the surface of Exandria, 
gathered into a single, steadfast redoubt: Kragham- 
mer. In one way or another, just about every dwarf 
in Tal'Dorei can trace their family back to that great 
city-state. 
‘The mountainous stronghold still stands as the 
heart of settlement in the Cliffkeep Mountains, and 
many dwarves consider it a place all their folk should 
visit at least once a decade. Kraghammer's legendary 
status gives it a highly conservative, unchanging 
culture, but even so, the dwarf people are far from 
monolithic. 
Some dwarves like to distinguish themselves 
as hill or mountain dwarves, based on whether or 
not they grew up outside or inside of Kraghammer. 
Gurdhe, a Dwarvish word translated into Common 
as “hill,” colloquially means “beyond the mountains” 
in most Dwarvish dialects. And many dwarves, even 
the so-called mountain-dwellers renowned for living 
their entire lives underground, make journeys out 
into the “hills” of Tal'Dorei to trade, gain artis 
inspiration, or visit the children of long-dead friends 
they bonded with decades or centuries prior. 
KRAGHAMMER DWARVES, 
‘The culture of Kraghammer is one of isolationism 
and tradition—even to the point 
of xenophobia. As a 
common saying goes: “Those who live beneath the 
mountain are as unmoving as the mountain itself.” 
Whether they're dwarves, gnomes, or folk 
of other 
ancestries, the people who dwell in Kraghammer 
typically embody this stubborn, dogmatic stoicism. 
Tradition. Kraghammer society is steeped in a 
culture of dwarves protecting their own, and those 
dwarves’ traditions of meticulous chronicling, geo- 
metrically precise artistry, dynastic great houses, 
and resilience against even the greatest of threats 
has proved itself 
a central pillar of their society. 
For long centuries, new peoples and new ideas in 
Kraghammer meant potential danger, threatening 
the death of monarchs and incursion by nefarious 
subterranean infiltrators. The first time that Kra- 
ghammer proudly opened its gates to a new people, 
the oligarch Warren Drassig led all of Tal'Dorei into 
the greatest war since the Age of Arcanum. The 
ity’s relative safety during the assault of the Chroma 
Conclave only cemented its people's belief that isola- 
tion is strength. 
Change. In the present day, many of Kragham- 
mer's residents feel stifled by its dominant culture, 
which continues to be insular and suspicious of 
outsiders and new ideas. In the past few decades, a 
tide of refugees fleeing crises such as the Wittebak 
disaster and the Cinder King’s attack on Emon have 
brought new voices and perspectives to the formerly 
unyielding halls of Kraghammer. These people 
now call the dwarves’ ancestral realm their home, 
and many of Kraghammer's dwarves have seen the 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 154 ---
innovation and transformation that new residents 
can bring. Change comes slowly in Kraghammer, but 
it does come in time. 
HILL TRAVELERS 
Dwarves might leave their underground realm for 
myriad reasons, with many making homesteads in 
the foothills of the Cliffkeep Mountains or ventur- 
ing even farther afield. Hill dwarves who left the 
mountain themselves, or who had parents or more 
distant ancestors who did so, have a certain shared 
camaraderie in their connection to the open sky 
above, the sun and wind around them, and the soft 
loam beneath their feet. 
Exploration. \t’s common for dwarves who live 
upon the hills and fields of Tal’Dorei to wander 
throughout their lives, never putting down roots 
for more than a decade or two at a time out of their 
centuries-long lives. Dwarves with tanned skin and 
sun-bleached hair are so common a sight 
in taverns 
across the Dividing Plains that the Dwarvish word 
gurdheledr, translated as 
“hill travelers,” 
has come to 
mean “mercenary” or “bounty hunter” as commonly 
as it refers to simple wanderers. 
Community. Dwarves are a common sight in 
cities such as Emon and Westruun, and even in 
smaller towns across central Tal’Dorei. Not unlike 
mountain-dwelling dwarves, these 
city dwellers are 
often as unmoving as a granite boulder on a rock 
shelf—unable to be budged unless given a tremen- 
dous push. Dwarves typically adopt the culture of 
wherever they live, though their long lives sometimes 
make them more resistant to social change than 
shorter-lived peoples. 
ARAGHANMER 
DWARF 
3 
Zn 
TS, 
CHAPTER 
4: CHARACTER OPTIONS 
DUERGAR OF EMBERHOLD 
Deep beneath Tal'Dorei is an underground realm 
lit only by magelight, magma flows, luminescent 
creatures and fungi, and the roaring fires of duergar 
forges. It is thought that a group of dwarves delved 
far into the depths of Exandria countless centuries 
ago, predating even the chronicles of Kraghammer. 
Whether by choice or by necessity, they made a home 
in the caverns they explored there. Something about 
the magic that suffuses their eerie realm changed 
the deep dwarves—who are called the duergar now. 
That name was originally an epithet, bestowed by 
the mountain dwarves who rediscovered and battled 
those deep dwarves, but the duergar now wear it 
with pride, 
Survival. The deep caverns of Tal’Dorei are an 
inhospitable place, filled with creatures whose aber- 
rant forms defy imagination and whose alien minds 
reject mortal morality. The duergar became hard- 
ened by their struggle for survival, and their rejection 
at the hands of the Kraghammer dwarves hardened 
their hearts forever. The smiths of the Emberhold do 
not forge art or works of beauty—only weapons and 
armor to turn back the onslaught of those who wish 
to see them dead. 
Alliance. The duergar have suffered alone for so 
long, hating all and hated by all. Nevertheless, in the 
undercurrents of the Emberhold, the idea spreads 
that there must be more to life than fire and death. 
Many duergar nurture a secret hope of finding some 
way to ally with their other dwarf kin—if only some- 
one were brave enough to reach out a hand without 
fear of it being cut off. 
DUERGAR OF 
EMBERHOLD 
tll 
TRAVELER

--- PAGE 155 ---
154 
ELEMENTAL ANCESTRY 
Exandria's lands are rife with elemental power. Pri- 
mordial energy constantly flows into the world from 
‘elemental rifts, and such primal power inevitably 
alters its surroundings. This is also true of peoples 
who spend long years in proximity to such sources 
‘of power, and of those who travel the planes long 
‘enough to find the seed of elemental power take root 
within their blood. Such folk are the beginning of an 
‘elemental ancestry, harboring the potential to give 
birth to children who are suffused with latent magic. 
Children of an elemental ancestry bear the 
features of their parents’ ancestry, but have clearly 
become something new. Their appearance is altered 
by their power, granting them skin that shines like 
the sun on the surface of the sea, hair that crackles 
like flame, or eyes that glitter like gemstones. Then 
comes the manifestation of elemental powers, which 
can make a child the envy of their peers—or some- 
one to be feared. 
While people of elemental ancestry are rare in 
Tal’Dorei, they are most common among the Ashari 
due to the elemental affinity of that folk. Some pos- 
sessed of elemental power enjoy the attention their 
uniqueness garners them, But for others, even the 
most benign interest draws painful attention to their 
otherne: 
Belonging. People with an elemental bloodline 
are often raised by parents in a regular commu- 
nity, and so grow up with all the aspirations and 
FLENENTAL 
ANCESTRY 
prejudices inherent to their culture. For many such 
people, the traits that make them unique also make 
them a pillar of their community—for example, a 
baker who instinctually understands the will of her 
oven’s fire. Within superstitious lands and cultures, 
however, a person's elemental powers might make 
them the target of scrutiny, fearmongering, or jeal- 
ousy, eventually driving them to strike out into the 
world to seek a place where they truly belong. 
Called 
to the Ashari. Those clemental-touched 
people who leave their communities often seek 
out the Ashari, the isolated keepers of rifts to the 
Elemental Planes. Elementally attuned children 
are born with great frequency to the Ashari, who 
understand the utmost 
importance of giving those 
children the education and tr 
understand their gifts. 
Alll people of elemental ancestry are welcome 
among the Ashari, including the Air Ashari and 
Earth Ashari found in Tal’Dorei. However, even 
those whose elemental ancestry connects them to 
water or fire can seek out Tal'Dorei’s Ashari peoples 
to help them on their journeys of discovery. In time, 
such a journey might lead them to the Fire Ashai 
the continent of Issylra, to the Water Ashari on the 
Islands of Anamn in the Ozmit Sea, or to Ashari who 
have journeyed from those lands to TalDorei. 
Elementally attuned folk who don't seek or can't 
find the Ashari might instead find their way to the 
reclusive giants of Tal’Dorei. Though the giants do 
their best to keep their distance from the lives and 
problems of humanoids, they have been known to 
take a shine to people whose shared elemental affini- 
ties give them common ground. 
ELVES 
When the Calamity threatened to annihilate all life 
on Tal’Dorei, the elves of this land gathered in their 
last remaining city, Syngorn, and used long-for- 
gotten magic to transport themselves into the Fey 
Realm. Time runs strangely in that realm, and for 
an unknown stretch of history, the elves of Syngorn 
lived with their fey kindred in peace. When they 
eventually returned to Exandria, they found a land 
devoid of all but animals and the grandeur of nature. 
The rotten majesty of the Age of Arcanum, burned 
away by the wrath of the gods, had given way to 
new growth. 
To the elves, the lands of Tal'Dorei are still called 
Gwessar, and elves who dwell here are called the 
Gwes'alfen—the elves of the Fields of Joy. For centu- 
s, this folk watched with delight as other peoples 
populated Gwessar, beginning with dwarves, then 
humans from across the sea, and so on. Then they 
looked on in horror as mortal ambition was per- 
verted into greed, and war followed in its wake. 
ing that will let them, 
n 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 156 ---
Syngorn and the Verdant Expanse that surrounds 
it are the ancestral homeland of TaDorei’s elves, 
many of whom never venture beyond that homeland. 
Young elves are most likely to journey afield to see 
what else the world has to offer, and while most of 
them return to Syngorn, some make new homes 
in the many towns and cities of Tal'Dorei—or they 
become hermits, their status as mystical beings with 
a thousand-year life span commanding an almost 
mythic reverence from other folk. 
The elves’ tendency to focus on the past has given 
rise to many stereotypes of those folk being haughty, 
aloof, and unconcerned with the day-to-day joys and 
sorrows of the shorter-lived races. But though this is 
certainly true for some elves, it's hard for other folk 
to consider the perspective of an elf who has person- 
ally witnessed whole cultures and civilizations rise 
and fall. Most elves are born with the same passion 
for life as any other being. But as centuries pass, life 
becomes a stream of historic events to be witnessed 
and contemplated, and not to be interfered with 
unless absolutely necessary. 
SYNGORN ELVES 
The syn’alfen, as the elves of the Verdant Expanse 
call themselves, almost universally revere the 
ancient history of Syngorn, and the story of how its 
escape to the Fey Realm saved their culture from 
extinction. No elf who lives in Syngorn can forget 
this past, and Syngornian culture can sometimes 
feel overbearing to those who see it only from the 
outside. More than a few woodland elves also feel 
stifled by their homeland’s unrelenting focus on 
story, magic, the fey, and the preservation of elven- 
ind. Such elves are most likely to leave Syngorn and 
make their homes in other parts of Tal'Dorei. 
Departure. Many elves who leave Syngorn (or 
who had parents who left) still consider themselves, 
synfalfen, whether they live in Emon or other cities, 
or even the ancestral homes of other folk, such as 
Kraghammer. The cultural imprint of Syngorn is 
hard to escape, and most of these expatriate wood 
elves hold a certain amount of love for their home 
even as part of 
a complicated relationship. 
Reunited Family. South of the Stormcrest Moun- 
tains lies the massive jungle of Rifenmist, home to 
the nomadic 
elf Orroyen tribes. The Orroyen believe 
that they split off from the Syngorn elves centuries 
ago, with both peoples meeting each other again only 
within the past century. Though initially suspicious, 
both elf lines soon came to see one another as long- 
lost family. 
‘The onslaught of the Chroma Conclave disrupted 
communication with the Orroyen elves, and news 
from the south has grown more dire since. Orroyen 
refugees continue to flow into Syngorn, fleeing the 
tyrannical Iron Authority that rules Rifenmist. 
CHAPTER 4: CHARACTER OPTION: 
LYRENGORN ELVES 
The lyrenalfen, known alternately as Lyrengorn 
elves or high elves, are a people who broke off from 
Syngorn long ago, and who journeyed from southern 
Tal'Dorei to settle in the frigid Neverfields, north of 
the Cliffkeep Mountains. The city of Lyrengorn that 
they founded is every bit as majestic as Syngorn in 
the south, but for better or worse, Lyrengorn lacks 
its sister city’s millennia of culture—and its cul- 
tural baggage. 
Art and Expression. Lyrengorn is nestled in the 
spires of the Elvenpeaks, spreading under the mys- 
terious northern lights known as the Moonweaver's 
Ribbons. The city is always aglow with magical light, 
and its people are taught spellcraft from a young age, 
for magic is the foundation upon which Lyrengorn 
was built. The spells of heat and comfort woven into 
its residents’ clothing 
and architecture are essential 
to living comfortably in such relentlessly cold lands. 
The elves who make their home within the pines 
of the Elvenpeaks are best known for riding through 
the wintry skies on wyverns. Every year, people from 
across Tal'Dorei travel to the Elvenpeaks to watch 
skyswimmers, 
elite wyvern riders who shape the 
glow of the Moonweaver’s Ribbons from the air. 
Magic and Transformation. High elf culture 
values magical prowess above almost all else, but 
LYRENGORN 
flr 
SYNGORN

--- PAGE 157 ---
the high elves lack the dogma of many of their 
‘Syngornian cousins. Their society encourages 
experimentation, both in terms of magic and 
self-expression. Likewise, lyren’alfen who become 
adventurers often do so in pursuit of inspiration 
or self-discovery. High elf societies are filled with 
elf magi who use magic to transform their bodies, 
exploring different gender expressions and soci 
roles—and they encourage all who visit Lyrengorn 
to join them in discovering all the different facets of 
one’s self. 
Many high elves become religious sorcerers, 
exploring their latent powers through their faith. Oth- 
ers develop their arcane skill by seeking admission 
to the Alabaster Lyceum in Emon, where they study 
the theory of magic with the best minds from across 
Tal'Dorei. 
DARK ELVES 
The myrk’alfen, also known as drow or dark elves, 
have a complicated relationship with the other elven 
societies of Tal'Dorei. Though the elves are one 
people by heritage, the dark elves refused to join 
the elves of Syngorn during the Calamity, instead 
into the trackless c: 
that 
d 
beneath Tal’Dorei, There, they became the unwit- 
ting prey of the Spider Queen, a Betrayer God of 
immense cruelty. 
Betrayed 
by the Gods. In times long past, the 
drow were a wise, beautiful folk with long, silvery 
hair and radiant ashen or violet skin, But their under- 
ground enclaves grew decadent and cruel, and their 
leaders fell to the alluring whispers of the Spider 
Queen. The myrk alfen allied with their venomous 
goddess against the Arch Heart and their elves in 
the Calamity. When the Spider Queen was defeated, 
the myrk’alfen of Tal'Dorei were exiled permanently 
from the surface world, confined to their imperious 
realm within the earth. 
Struggle to Survive. More evil powers than 
just the Spider Queen lurk beneath the surface of 
the world. With the drow in exile, the whispers of 
the Crawling King and the Chained Oblivion first 
reached the ears of their nobility as the dark elves 
struggled to stave away the aberrations that encircled 
their cities. Now, generations later, the dark elves 
are a people seemingly on the brink of annihilation. 
Neighbors slaughter one another in the streets as 
they succumb to paranoia. For when aberrations can 
take or shape any form, who can be trusted? Unable 
to stop their citizens from rioting, the drow elite have 
grown ever more authoritarian, commanding their 
royal guards to keep order by violently suppressing 
their people. 
Against this ongoing chaos, some dark elves who 
fall deep into the abominable thrall of the Spider 
Queen become truly monstrous, their skin and eyes 
turning deathly pale as they become little more than 
puppets for their tormenting goddess. Others will- 
ingly offer themselves to the aberrations to end their 
suffering, and are transformed 
into shapeshifting 
doppelgangers. And the most power-hungry drow 
nobles often succumb entirely to their devotion to the 
Spider Queen, willingly drinking her abyssal blood 
to become driders in her service. 
New Light for the Shadow. The people of 
Tal’Dorei have recently received emissaries from 
dark elves who live in the eastern reaches of Wilde- 
mount, in a nation called the Kryn Dynasty. Their 
Bright Queen, Leylas Kryn, broke free of the Spider 
Queen's corrupting influence and led her people to 
glory and self-determination in the distant lands of 
Xhorhas. This rebellion was inspired by the discov- 
ery of the Luxon, a mysterious being 
of light and 
rebirth that the Kryn drow worship asa god. 
Though the dark elves of the Kryn Dynasty have 
problems enough of their own, some of the Kryn 
sek the aid of Syngorn and Lyrengorn on expe- 
ions into the depths beneath Tal'Dorei. Their 
goals are noble, 
but none can deny that these are 
missionary expeditions in search of new followers— 
and in search of new Luxon beacons, the scattered 
fragments of that new drow god. 
Many adventuring drow harbor a violent hatred of 
aberrations, and have abandoned the Spider Queen's 
faith to become paladins in service of the Dawnfa- 
ther or the Luxon, setting aside their affinity for the 
shadow to search for hope in the light of the sun. 
FIRBOLGS 
Fur-covered folk with floppy ears, flat noses, and 
long faces, firbolgs are a humanoid 
people with a 
unique, somewhat bovine appearance. They aren't 
insular by nature, but they feel most at ease when 
surrounded by the natural world, leading the vast 
majority of firbolgs to never leave their forest homes 
except under circumstances beyond their control. 
As a result, many folk in Tal’Dorei don't even know 
that firbolgs exist. Those firbolgs who do live in the 
realm’s cosmopolitan cities either grow annoyed or 
accepting of people constantly questioning who—or 
what—they are. 
DWELLERS OF COLD FORESTS 
Firbolgs’ fuzzy bodies are acclimated to cold 
weather, and they often overheat in warm climes. 
They are most commonly seen in Kraghammer, 
Zephrah, Whitestone, and Stilben, both as residents 
and as traveling bards and merchants. But they are 
otherwise a rare sight south of the Clifikeep Moun- 
tains, though some firbolgs enjoy a comfortable life 
in Emon after learning 
a few handy spells to keep 
cool in the summer. 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 158 ---
‘The largest and densest population of firbolgs in 
Tal'Dorei is found in the eternally winter-bound for- 
est of the Frostweald. These firbolgs have a friendly 
but cautious relationship with the capricious fey who 
also dwell there. 
GNOMES 
Gnomes and gnomish culture are relatively uncom- 
mon in Tal'Dorei, for although humans and rock 
gnomes both hail from Issyira, relatively few gnomes 
have the chance or the desire to leave their home- 
land. Moreover, their short stature has often proved a 
social hindrance in the lands of taller folk. But where 
they have settled, gnomes easily prove their mettle 
through deed and humor, becoming welcome mem- 
bers of the settlements where they choose to make 
their homes. 
ROCK GNOMES 
The first gnomes to enter Tal'Dorei migrated from 
Issylra during the Age of Arcanum, and endured the 
Calamity within the deep caverns of the Cliffkeep 
Mountains. These folk called themselves rock 
gnomes, and founded a marvelous settlement called 
Wittebak. Their society prized cleverness above 
all other things, eschewing the arts of magic for a 
FIRBOLE 
CHAPTER 4: 
CHARACTER OPTIONS 
focus on tinkering and an understanding of natural 
phenomena. 
Dizzying Heights. By the end of the Calamity, 
the city of Wittebak was the most technologically 
advanced place in all of Tal’Dorei, even as the elves 
and dwarves were emerging from their isolation. 
However, such greatness could not last. The rock 
gnomes boasted of their superiority to the 
stone giants who also called the mountains home, 
and incurred their elemental wrath, In the earth- 
quakes that followed, Wittebak and most of its people 
were destroyed. 
Eyes Ahead. Most of those who survived the 
Wittebak disaster made their way to Kraghammer, 
relying upon the generosity of the dwarves to sur- 
vive. A few others traveled to Emon and Kymal, and 
helped build those cities in their earliest days. To this 
day, most gnomes with any connection to the heady 
era of Wittebak still call themselves rock gnomes 
in its honor. These gnomes carry a certain cultural 
memory of their city’s fall from grace, which drives 
many of them to strive constantly toward greatness. 
Eyes Behind. A fair few rock gnomes dwelling in 
Kraghammer—elders in particular—take a different 
view of their people's fall from grace and glory. 
These gnomes work bitterly and tirelessly, fueled by 
spite and pride, with the intention of either reclaim- 
ing Wittebak or proving that the city's lost technology 
is superior to any magic or other force on Exandria, 
FOREST GNOMES 
Forest gnomes are not native to Tal’Dorei, but unlike 
rock gnomes, they are believed to hail from the Fey 
Realm, much like the elves. A half dozen small forest 
gnome communities can be found in the Verdant 
Expanse, hidden from the prying eyes of elves and 
human explorers alike. But how gnomes ended up in 
the Fey Realm to begin with is a mystery that even 
they can't begin to answer. 
FOREST @NOME 
: Rock GNOME

--- PAGE 159 ---
‘Magic, Not Tech. The biggest difference between 
the gnomes of the forest and their rock gnome 
cousins are their philosophies toward magic and 
technology. After spending untold centuries in the 
Fey Realm, forest gnomes have a great respect for 
magic, especially capricious, unpredictable magic 
like that of the fey. Forest gnome culture sees 
technology as predictable and boring, even ifits use- 
fulness must be conceded from time to time. 
Forest gnomes respect the rock gnomes’ dedica 
tion to science, and are more than happy to help th 
kin in their search to understand how nature works 
and how to manipulate it. But in the end, knowledge 
isnot as important as canniness in forest gnome 
enclaves. 
Worldly Explorers. Not all forest gnomes are as 
close to their fey identity as the gnomes of the Ver- 
dant Expanse, and a number of more worldly clans 
have spread to other forests across Tal'Dorei. Most 
notably, a number of familiesfamilies, including the 
Trickfoot clan, have made the Bramblewood outside 
of Westruun their home for generations. These clans 
are more practical than their fey kin and less 
uptight 
than their distant rock gnome cousins, giving these 
gnomes a curious personality perfect for the life of 
a 
traveling adventurer. 
GOBLINKIN 
Goblins, hobgoblins, and bugbears are three distinct 
races with a united past. They live across Tal’Dorei, 
most often in isolated communities, though many 
people in the realm have become used to the sight of 
ir 
{oBé0BLIN 
goblin children playing catch in the street, hobgoblin 
mercenaries hanging around job boards, and bug- 
bear apothecaries running shops in the hills. 
The origin of the goblinkin is shrouded in myth 
and legend, but it’s generally accepted that these 
peoples were created by the Strife Emperor during 
the Calamity to be his perfect soldiers. The few 
records of that time hint that the goblinkin were 
once a single folk called the dranassar, a humanoid 
people of golden skin and green, violet, or yellow 
eyes who lived in eastern Wildemount. They dwelled 
in great numbers in the city of Ghor Dranas, which 
came to be the seat of the Betrayer Gods’ power in 
the Calamity. 
For centuries, goblinkin were viewed as monsters 
by most other people of Tal'Dorei—particularly 
explorers and adventurers who regularly invaded 
and destroyed goblinkin settlements. But this ugly 
sentiment has undergone a radical 
shift in the past 
generation, during which countless goblins, hobgob- 
lins, and bugbears have fought alongside the other 
folk of Tal’ Dorei in defense of their homeland against 
the Chroma Conclave and other threats. Today, gob- 
linkin are a welcome sight in Tal'Dorei’s cities, and 
those folk who nurture old hostilities are invariably 
taken to task by the people around them. 
GOBLINS 
Goblins are a green-skinned people, short of stature 
and typically having thin, dexterous fingers and 
strong, nimble legs. They fit easily into settlements 
with significant gnome or halfling populations, 
whose residences and furniture are already 
Gost 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 160 ---
CHAPTER 
4 
Appropriately sized. With long traditions of 
isolated family units in forests and mountain caves, 
many city-dwelling goblins dwell in large houses 
holding at least three generations of family and many 
different branches of their family tree. 
HOBGOBLINS 
Most hobgoblins are alike in stature to humans and 
have similar variations in build, ranging from thin 
and scrawny to broad shouldered and muscular. 
Their large ears, gleaming yellow eyes, and powerful 
incisors give them a vaguely feline appearance. 
Hobgoblins are often stereotyped as having 
a 
warlike, martial nature—a sentiment that arose from 
rumors surrounding the Iron Authority in the Rifen- 
mist Jungle. That empire is majority hobgoblin, and 
its cruel leaders have press-ganged the land's entire 
population into compulsory military service. In ages 
past, most hobgoblins that became known to the 
other peoples of 
Tal'Dorei were scouts or captured 
legionnaires of the Iron Authority. Today, though, 
many escapees from the authority's influence live 
in cities such as Emon, Kymal, or Byroden. Most 
of these free hobgoblins know only their parents’ 
of that 
distant empire, and are able to live 
ly free of its influence. 
BUGBEARS 
Bugbears are tall humanoids covered with brown, 
black, or blue-gray fur, which combines with large 
ears and yellow eyes to give them an even more 
feline appearance than their hobgoblin cousins. 
Though bugbears are tall, their posture is gener- 
ally stooped, so that their heads are still roughly at 
human height. 
Many bugbears are solitary folk, living in forests 
and mount: 
where their thick fur protects them 
against the cold. They typically gather in large 
groups one to three times a year to socialize and 
play games with friends, reunite 
love—a tradition that has been reworked by those 
who live in permanent communities. Such bugbears 
often live with a number 
of romantic partners under 
the same roof, or “adopt” goblin families and dwell in 
their loving, chaotic, multigenerational households. 
HALF-GIANTS 
Four peoples were known to exist on Tal’Dorei when 
the world was reborn out of the ashes of the Calam- 
ity. The elves, who emerged from the Fey Realm. The 
dwarves, who emerged from the earth. The orcs, 
who endured the Calamity through strength and 
determination. And the half-giants, who safely rode 
out that war in mountaintop retreats before eventu- 
ally descending to the windswept plains below. 
Averaging seven feet tall, with hairless, craggy 
bodies and skin tough as stone, half-giants are 
CHARACTER OPTIONS 
often colloquially known as stoneborn or goliaths, 
Descended from stone giants, these folk have long 
been viewed as exemplars of rugged endurance and 
individualism. They are found in settlements across 
Tal'Dorei, where they are known for their innate 
strength and their commonly held belief—passed 
down from the giants of old—that all must take fate 
into their own hands. 
In ancient times, goliaths and ores lived off the 
same land, and their nomadic clans frequently 
warred and intermingled in equal measure. As such, 
it is common for orcs and goliaths of Tal’Dorei to 
discover common ancestors somewhere in their 
family trees. 
NOMADIC HERDS 
Stone giants believe that physical perfection is the 
world’s greatest virtue, and this belief has been 
passed down culturally to the goliaths who live in 
the mountains and upon the Dividing Plains. These 
plains-dwelling half-giants call their clans “herds,” 
and unite behind the stone giants’ philosophy of 
“might makes right.” Though at one time these 
herds were mostly made up of stoneborn almost 
exclusively, recent generations have come to include 
humans, ores, dwarves, and even physically diminu- 
tive people such as halflings—as long as they agree 
with the philosophy of strength above all. 
HHALr-GUANT 
159

--- PAGE 161 ---
160 
Rivermaw. The greatest of the half-giant herds is 
the Rivermaw, whose members use their strength of 
arms and political cunning to protect their ancestral 
lands from incursion. The Rivermaw herd includes 
‘many goliaths from the now-broken Herd of Storms, 
whose folk suffered at the hands of the tyrant Kevdak 
many years ago, and who now seek to protect others 
from ever suffering as they did. 
Ravagers. Opposing the Rivermaw are the Rav- 
agers—a group that the Rivermaw have stripped of 
the title of “herd” in disgust. The Ravagers are more 
a death cult dedicated to the Betrayer God called the 
Ruiner than a true clan. Just like the contemporary 
Rivermaw, the ranks of the Ravagers are filled with 
people of many different ancestries, from goliaths 
to humans to bloody-minded firbolgs—all of them 
rejecting order to embrace slaughter and cruelty. 
TOWERS OF STONE 
Tal’Dorei’s most famous goliath, the legendary hero 
Grog Strongjaw, is renowned for being a warrior 
first and a thinker second. But goliaths are no less 
intelligent or canny than Tal'Dorei’s other peoples. 
Despite being known as nomadic folk, many half-gi- 
ants understand that stone is 
sturdiest when formed 
into towers, walls, and bridges, and cities such as 
Kraghammer 
and Emon have long been filled with 
the works of goliath masons and architects not given 
the historical recognition they deserved. 
Great advances in mathematics and civil engineer- 
ing have been made by other city-dwelling stoneborn, 
and scholars of the Cobalt Soul are working to 
confirm which of the beloved Emonian and Westru- 
unian structures that survived the Chroma Conclave 
are actually the result of pioneering goliath minds. 
Westruuin has long been home to vast numbers of 
half-giants dwelling there to be close to their former 
herds, but many others have set down more recent 
roots after the Battle of Westruun, helping rebuild in 
the wake of the destruction wrought by the dragon 
Umbrasyl and the Herd of Storms. 
HALFLINGS 
No one really knows how halflings appeared on 
Exandria, nor is it known how they first arrived in 
Tal'Dorei. Some halfling scholars are eager to trace 
the origin of their people, but many of those who live 
out in the countryside are more keen on inventing 
increasingly tall tales regarding the roots of their 
ancestry. One popular creation myth is that when 
the All-Hammer made the dwarves, a little bit of left- 
over clay slipped from his hands and landed on the 
rolling fields beyond the dwarves’ mountains, where 
it became the first halflings. Though most people 
dismiss this story as nothing more than folklore, 
a sense of the halflings having humble beginnings 
fits with the place they've found for themselves in 
Tal'Dorei. 
The historical records of the Cobalt Soul assert 
that halflings journeyed across the Ozmit Sea from 
Issylra with Tal’ Dorei’s first humans, with both peo- 
ples coexisting 
in peaceful harmony 
in this realm’s 
earliest cities and idyllic agrarian towns. Humans 
and halflings likewise fought together—and against 
each other—when the Iron Rule of Drassig swept 
across the land. 
The Scattered War 
divided halflings across the 
continent in two ways. Thousands of humans and 
halflings were impressed by Drassig's strength and 
joined his armies, even as many of those who refused 
to join turned away from their old allegiances. One 
group of halflings decided that humans had betrayed 
them and that Warren Drassig was emblematic of 
all humanity's evils, and formed the Stoutheart Clan 
in response. They stockpiled weapons and began 
a campaign 
of guerilla warfare against Drassig’s 
armies—even battalions that held former friends and 
family among their ranks. 
Another clan, the Lightfoots, asserted that all 
humans couldn't be condemned for the evil actions 
of one king, and pointed to the thousands of halflings 
and other non-humans who had allied themselves 
with Drassig's evil regime as proof. The Lightfoots 
advocated protecting as many people as possible 
while waiting the war out. In the end, it became 
lear to both halfling clans that in a conflict against a 
tyrant such as Drassig, neutrality was not an option. 
They banded together behind Zan Tal’Dorei’s banner 
of rebellion. 
These two clans dissolved after the Scattered 
War, but many contemporary halfling families can 
cttFo0T 
HALFLING 
STOUTHEART 
HALFLING 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 162 ---
trace their genealogies back to one or the other, 
and proudly procla 
ir great-grandparents 
were there when history was being made. Most 
halflings treat this sense of history only as idle fun, 
though, and few feel any real animosity over old ills 
and grudges. 
LIGHTFOOT CLAN 
The Lightfoot Clan dissolved into its many compo- 
nent families after the war, but the spirit that created 
the clan still survives. Those halflings who strongly 
identify with their 
Lightfoot identity look out for 
number one first, and are more likely to try to evade 
conflict than to meet an oncoming storm head-on. 
Yet 
a contradiction lingers 
within the Lightfoot spirit, 
for despite all their love of the comforts of home, 
many Lightfoot halflings feel a certain unquenchable 
hunger to explore. Many adventuring halflings are 
Lightfoots who have given in to this compulsion. 
STOUTHEART CLAN 
The Stoutheart Clan also dissolved in the wake of 
the Scattered War, but its 
ideals 
and identity still 
endure. Brashness and courage even in the face of 
absurd odds embodies the Stoutheart spirit. Recall- 
ing the guerilla army that stood against the legions 
of Drassig, any halfling with the fortitude to stand 
up to a warrior three times their size has more than 
earned the honor of calling themself a Stoutheart— 
even if their family tree doesn't have true roots in 
that historic clan. 
Stouthearts often surprise other people who know 
of halflings only from experiences with more laid- 
back 
Lightfoot folk—and many use this surprise to 
their advantage to become truly cunning diplomats. 
The proud Stoutheart named Assum Emring, a 
former member of the Tal'Dorei Council, once bois- 
terously claimed that he was so rude, so brash and 
so defiant in his first meeting with the late Sovereign 
Uriel Tal'Dorei II, that he was very nearly arrested 
before being offered a position on the sovereign’s 
staff the very next day! 
HUMANS 
Humans are the most populous race in Tal'Dorei 
today, though at one point in this land’s history, all of 
humankind’s holdings were naught but a speck on 
the western coastline. 
If humans ever lived upon Tal'Dorei in the Age of 
Arcanum, they were wiped out entirely by the end 
of the Calamity. But after the world had begun to 
recover from the devastation wrought by that war of 
gods and mortals, an expedition of human explorers 
departed from Vasselheim in Issylra, thought to be 
the only bastion of humanoid culture on the surface 
of Exandria to survive the Calamity. Sailing east- 
ward, they reached the land that would eventually 
CHAPTER 4: CHARACTER OPTIONS. 
come to be called Tal'Dorei, and were shocked to 
find elves, dwarves, ores, and half-giants already 
living there—shattering their belief that the Calamity 
had washed away all mortal life except the people of 
Vasselheim. 
Over the years, humans and their ambition 
have been responsible for bloody wars, weapons 
of unimaginable devastation, and spells that have 
reduced entire cultures to ruin, Yet humans have 
also driven great advances in art, music, poetry, and 
theater, and have shown love and compassion to 
the other mortal peoples of the world. The course 
of human history is never straight, and can turn 
at any time. After all, humans’ lives are short and 
their 
minds are chaotic—a fact that troubles many of 
the longlived elves and dwarves of Tal Dorei. Still, 
despite these weaknesses—or perhaps because of 
them—humans have produced some of the most 
innovative and forward-thinking figures Tal'Dorei 
has ever known. 
A FAR-REACHING PEOPLE 
Humans can hail from anywhere in Tal'Dorei, for 
although their presence on the continent began as 
small colony in the west, that presence quickly 
HUMANS

--- PAGE 163 ---
spread. Humans were eager to trade, to forge alli- 
ances, and to find love with the elves, dwarves, orcs, 
and goliaths of Tal'Dorei. Their lands quickly grew 
in size and power. But then a human despot by the 
name of Warren Drassig broke the peace of trade 
and coalition in favor of conquest. 
Drassig’s betrayal nearly condemned humankind 
ton eternal reputation for villainy. However, one 
human rebel named Zan Tal'Dorei forged alliances 
of renewed trust between her rebellious faction and 
the other beleaguered peoples of Drassig’s kingdom. 
Her forthright idealism and steadfast determination 
won the Scattered War, and laid the foundations for a 
new society that enshrined the alliances she created. 
Though human adventurers can hail from any- 
where in Tal’Dorei, humans are most commonly 
found in the lands connected by the Silvercut Road- 
way: the Bladeshimmer Shoreline in the west, the 
Lucidian Coast in the east, and the Dividing Plains 
that separate them. A number of humans from Wilde- 
mount also sailed across the Shearing Channel long 
ago and settled in the Alabaster Sierras, where they 
founded the city-state of Whitestone. 
Humans living along the Silvercut provide the 
infrastructure for trade across the continent, and 
as such are often involved in some form of craft, 
business, or production. Human-dominated cities in 
Tal'Dorei are typically highly diverse, because they 
were founded with the aid of many allies of other 
ancestries. Today, members of all Exandria’s other 
peoples come together in great cities such as Emon, 
even as humans from the distant continents of 
Issylra, Marquet, and Wildemount travel to exchange 
goods and ideas with the vast and bountiful lands 
of Tal’Dorei. Beyond the cities, dozens of human- 
founded outposts spread along the fringes of lands 
better known by Tal'Dorei's older ancestries—the 
elves, dwarves, orcs, goliaths, and even the reclusive 
giants. Outlanders, explorers, and hermits take 
refuge here from the hectic pace of city life, but still 
find danger enough in the wilderness to keep them 
on their toes. 
Many humans likewise live in settlements founded 
by non-humans, ranging in size from tiny gnome-ma- 
jority villages in Torian Forest to the ancient and 
stately cities of Syngorn and Kraghammer. These 
humans absorb the cultures of their homes, just 
as people of other ancestries raised in cities such 
as Emon can grow up with a distinctly human out- 
look on life. 
Orcs 
Ores survived on Tal’Dorei during the Calamity 
through sheer determination and strength. Unlike 
the elves and dwarves who hid in their secret 
retreats, and the goliaths who watched the destruc- 
tion from their mountaintops, great clans of orcs 
fought endless bloody battles on the Dividing Plains 
as the gods and their loyal minions clashed, wielding 
magic sufficient to rip the world asunder. And the 
ores endured—perhaps in part because of the divine 
power behind that people's creation. 
The myth surrounding the orcs’ origin is a grim 
one. Itis said that they were created by accident 
when the Arch Heart, god of the elves, shot out the 
eye of the war god known as the Ruiner. The Ruin- 
er’s blood poured from his wound and rained upon 
the armies of elves who served the Arch Heart—and 
those unsuspecting mortals were transformed. Their 
muscles bulged, tusks grew from their jaws, and 
their minds burned with a thirst for blood. 
Yet after that battle’s end, the fury within these 
new humanoids burned away, and the orcs survived 
as a hardy, physically powerful people. In the early 
days of Gwessar, ore clans warred with anyone who 
invaded their territory, especially the goliaths who 
descended from the mountains to the plains, and 
who rivaled the orcs in both strength and stature. 
But once more, fury cooled in time, and reasonable 
voices won out over those of even the most passion- 
ate warmongers. 
Today, orcs and other folk with orcish heritage 
can be found all across Tal’Dorei. Many orcs find 
their natural athleticism an asset in specific trades, 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 164 ---
But they can be found in every guild and profession. 
‘Though orcs and humans have an ancient legacy of 
conflict that lives on in a prejudiced few, the realm is 
filled with people who denounce and ostracize any 
who discriminate against their orc neighbors. 
Though many of Tal'Dorei’s ores are related to clans 
that have lived nomadically on the continent since 
time immemorial, the major cities of the land are 
also home to orcs who've traveled to Tal'Dorei from 
across the 
sea. Many of those orcs originated in the 
lands of Xhorhas, in Wildemount, and the continent 
of Marquet—places where ores have never been 
denied the opportunity to become great scholars 
or leaders. 
TIEFLINGS 
Though Tal’Dorei was once awash with fell legends 
claiming to detail the evil origin of tieflings, the 
more progressive 
parts of the realm have long since 
stomped out such ugly myths. Still, many folk can’t 
help but show surprise the first time they see a 
person with horns curling from their brow, gleaming 
eyes of a single solid color, and lustrous, brightly 
hued skin of red, purple, or blue. 
CHAPTER 
CHARACTER OPTIONS 
‘Scholars have scoured thousands of years of Issyl- 
ran history in search of the origin of tieflings, to little 
avail. The most complete extant records suggest that 
during the Age of Arcanum, a cabal of power-hun- 
gry Issylran warlocks consorted with extraplanar 
entities, and that many of these unions resulted in 
children who shared the qualities of human and 
fiend. These progeny of the Lower Planes eventually 
came to break away from that origin to become a 
people unto themselves. 
The first tieflings to walk on Tal'Dorei sailed from 
Issylra during the Age of Arcanum, fleeing religious 
zealots who believed their very existence was an 
abomination. Many tieflings in Tal'Dorei refused 
to fight during the Calamity, embracing a 
m 
which said that if the world could reject their kind, 
perhaps it was better to just let it burn. Yet the world 
and the tieflings survived. 
In the centuries after the Divergence, tieflings who 
had grown weary of gods and demons rejoiced, feel- 
ing that the gods’ imprisonment had effectively freed 
them from their cursed past. As such, when Warren 
Drassig and his sons conquered the elven lands of 
Gwessar, countless tieflings rose in rebellion against 
the tyrant. They had seen his kind before, they knew 
his methods, and they knew others would suffer as 
they once had. 
TIEFLING CHILDREN 
Tieflings who form a union always have tiefling chil- 
dren, and most tieflings belong firmly to that ancient 
ancestry. Yet to this day, any humanoid—whether 
famous hero or common farmer—who makes a deal 
with fiends might give rise to children, grandchil- 
dren, or even more distant descendants born with 
the horns, eyes, and colorful skin ofa tiefling. 
Perhaps the most famous tiefling born in the 
past generation is Gwendolyn de Rolo, the young- 
est daughter of the renowned heroes Percival and 
Vex'ahlia 
de Rolo of Whitestone. It is an open secret 
in the city-state that Percival had dealings with fiends 
as a young man, Yet though none of the rumors have 
precisely pinpointed the nature of Percival’s super- 
natural bargain, all who know Gwendolyn agree that 
she is the sweetest and most innocent de Rolo to. 
roam the halls of Castle Whitestone in many years, 
MIXED ANCESTRY 
Even the oldest records of the Cobalt Soul are 
unclear as to whether the ancestries of elves, 
dwarves, orcs, and goliaths routinely mixed before 
the arrival of humankind on Tal'Dorei’s shores. But 
it's easy to assume that explorers and ambassadors 
‘would inevitably find love or companionship among 
the folk of unfamiliar lands—and it is well known 
that the arrival of humans changed Tal'Dorei forever. 
163

--- PAGE 165 ---
From the earliest days of human exploration on 
the continent, love and passion began to blossom 
between all of Tal'Dorei's people. The children that 
spring from the unions of folk of different heritage 
bear the traits of each of their parents, so that a 
human child might gain patches of scales and rep- 
tilian eyes from a dragonblood parent, or an ore and 
a dwarf might raise a child of squat, stout stature 
and olive-green skin, and bearing wisps of a coppery 
beard even as an infant. 
In the modern age, love unites all folk. People of 
mixed ancestry can be found all across Tal’Dorei, 
though they are most common in the realm's cos- 
mopolitan cities. Some ancestries are biologically 
improbable (such as a goliath and a gnome having 
a child), but sufficient application of magic makes 
even those unions possible. However, money can be 
a limiting factor in such things, as having a skilled 
mage on hand during conception and childbirth is an 
expensive process. 
Non-humanoid creatures with the magical ability 
toassume humanoid size and form, such as drag- 
‘ons, can also sire or give birth to mixed-ancestry 
children. 
MIXED ANCESTRY STATISTICS 
Only certain combinations of ancestries, such as 
half-elves and half-orcs, already have racial traits 
described in the fifth edition core rules. You can use 
traits as is, or create your own 
mixed 
ancestry from any two races by choosing one or two 
racial traits from one parent's race and exchanging 
them for the same number 
of traits from another 
Parent's race. 
When you build a character of mixed ances- 
try, keep 
in mind that some racial trait 
mechanically powerful than others, while some are 
largely flavorful or narrative focused. As such, focus 
on swapping a narrative trait for another narrative 
trait, or a combat-focused trait for another combat-fo- 
cused trait. Additionally, you must have your Game 
Master's permission to use your replacement traits. 
As with any house rule, you and your Game Master 
might want to revisit your unique combination of 
traits later in the campaign if they feel overpowered 
or underpowered. 
OTHER RACES 
In addition to humanoids, countless other sapient 
beings walk the lands of Tal’Dorei. Many of these are 
rare creatures, never building communities of folk 
who share their appearance and abilities, Some are 
wholly unique creations of unpredictable magical 
effects. Others are mighty beings such as dragons 
and giants, who can take on the role of hero or vil- 
Jain with equal ease but who 
intentionally separate 
themselves from the affairs of Tal'Dorei’s other 
mortal peoples. 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTIN' REBORN

--- PAGE 166 ---
HEMOCRAFT 
‘Two of the subclasses in this book, the clerie’s Blood 
Domain and the wizard’s Blood Magic arcane tradi- 
tion, use the magical art of hemocraft. This involves 
using your own blood and the blood of other crea- 
tures to heal, hex, and even bend bodies to your will. 
BLOOD AND SESSION ZERO 
Self-harm and the removal of agency can be an 
incredibly sensitive topic, regardless of whether it's 
happening to someone’s own character, to another 
player character, or to an NPC. Additionally, many 
people have blood phobias that they may not want 
to disclose. Because of this, if any player or the GM 
wants to use one of these options, it's important that 
you bring it up in a pregame session zero (discussed 
at the start of this chapter) and get everyone's afir- 
mative and enthusiastic buy-in. These options are 
exciting and flavorful, but the comfort of your group 
is essential to making the game fun for everyone. 
BLOOD AND SPELLCASTING 
If everyone in your group is okay with using blood 
magic in your game, consider how you can describe 
your 
spellcasting in fun and eerie ways. When cast- 
ing divine spells as a Blood Domain cleric, you can 
flavor your descriptions 
to tailor the magic’s effect 
on an opponent's blood and vitality. The hold person 
spell might involve locking a target's body into place 
from the circulatory system out. Cure wounds might 
feature lines of blood knitting lacerations together 
like a needle and thread. As a Blood Magic wizard, 
your find familiar spell could conjure a horrific crim- 
Son spirit of congealed ichor and pulsing veins. Have 
fun with the theme! 
I DON’T HAVE BLoop! 
‘Some characters don't have blood, It might be 
because they're a living construct, or have become 
undead through some macabre magic. If you want 
to play a blood mage but don't have blood yourself, 
consider your hemocraft to be a unique variant that 
channels the power 
of your life force, the necroman- 
tic energy that animates you, or even the oil that 
pumps through your artificial form. This is a purely 
flavorful change, and doesn't affect any of your sub- 
class features. 
THEY DON’T HAVE BLOOD! 
On the other hand, some hemocraft features require 
the targets of your magic to have blood themselve: 
It’s generally up to the Game Master to decide what 
does and doesn’t have blood, but for the most part, 
all beasts, dragons, giants, and humanoids need 
blood to live. Most celestials, fey, and fiends have 
meee 
ee 
CHAPTER 
4: CHARACTER OPTIONS 
blood or magical ichor, as well as some elementals. 
However, constructs and undead don't have blood, 
and are unaffected by hemocraft. 
Most aberrations, monstrosities, and plants also 
need blood or some type of vital sap or ichor to sur- 
vive. It's recommended that the Game Master rule in 
the players’ favor in cases like these. That said, one 
way to show that hemocraft is more difficult to use 
against such creatures is to give them advantage on 
any saving throw against the feature the character is 
trying to use. 
SUBCLASSES 
This section features new subclass options for some 
of the familiar fifth edition character classes. These 
subclasses grant you new options not available to all 
members of your class. Information on your full class 
features, as well as other subclasses, can be found in 
the fifth edition rules. 
BARBARIAN 
You are a wild warrior whose emotions and instincts 
guide you in combat far more than logic or tactics. 
When your barbarian character chooses a primal 
path at 3rd level, the Path of the Juggernaut is a new 
option for use in a Tal’Dorei campaign. 
PATH OF THE JUGGERNAUT 
Barbarians who follow the Path of the Juggernaut 
stand so resolutely that none can deter them, and 
they swing their weapons with such force that all 
who stand against them are flung aside. In 
and in spirit, juggernauts are immovable object and 
unstoppable force all at once. 
‘Juggernaut barbarians can be found all over 
Tal'Dorei, and are common among the goliath 
warriors of the Rivermaw herd that wanders the 
Dividing Plains. Some dwarves and humanoid 
survivalists of the Cliffkeep Mountains adopt this 
fighting style as an extension of their rugged deter- 
minism. And a number of stalwart juggernauts hail 
from the jungles of the Rifenmist Peninsula, having 
cast off the oppressive yoke of the Iron Authority. 
‘THUNDEROUS BLOWS. 
Starting when you choose this path at 3rd level, 
your rage instills you with the strength to shove 
‘and smash your way through your foes, making any 
battlefield your domain. When you hit a creature with 
amelee attack while you're raging, you can push that 
creature up to 5 feet away from you ina direction of 
your choice. A creature that is Huge or larger makes 
a Strength saving throw with a DC equal to 8 + your 
proficiency bonus + your Strength modifier. On a 
success, the creature is not pushed. 
165

--- PAGE 167 ---
Starting at 10th level, you can push a creature up 
to 10 feet when you hit it with a melee attack while 
you're raging. 
SPIRIT OF THE MOUNTAIN 
At 3rd level, you harness your fury to anchor your 
feet to the ground, becoming a bulwark of strength. 
While you are raging, you can’t be knocked prone or 
moved along the ground against your will. 
DEMOLISHING MIGHT 
Starting at 6th level, your melee weapon attacks deal 
an extra 1d8 damage to constructs, and deal double 
damage to objects and structures. 
aa 
RULES TIP: 
FORCED MOVEMENT 
Usually when one creature moves out of a hostile 
creature’s reach, the hostile creature can use its 
reaction to make an opportunity attack. However, 
forced movement—such as being pushed by a Path 
of the Juggernaut barbarian’s Thunderous Blows 
feature—doesn't provoke opportunity attacks. 
Likewise, a juggernaut barbarian’s Hurricane 
Strike feature allows an ally to make a melee 
weapon attack as a reaction only if the foe ends its 
forced movement within 5 feet of the ally. Ifa foe is 
pushed through other spaces within 5 feet of your 
allies, those allies can’t make normal opportunity 
attacks against the foe 
RESOLUTE STANCE 
Also at 6th level, you can temporarily refocus your 
combat ability to make yourself a bulwark of defense. 
At the start of your turn (no action required), you can 
assume a defensive stance that lasts until the start 
of your next turn. While in this stance, you can't 
be grappled, attack rolls against you have disad- 
vantage, and your weapon attacks are made with 
disadvantage. 
HURRICANE STRIKE 
Starting at 10th level, your blows can hurl foes 
through the air and into the attacks of your allies. As 
a reaction when you push a creature at least 5 feet, 
you can then leap into an unoccupied space next to 
the creature. If you do so, the creature must succeed 
on a Strength saving throw with a DC equal to 
8+ 
your proficiency bonus + your Strength modifier or 
be knocked prone. This leap costs no movement and 
does not provoke opportunity attacks. 
Additionally, whenever you push a creature into 
a space within 5 feet of one of your allies, the ally 
can use its reaction to make a melee weapon attack 
against that creature. 
UNSTOPPABLE 
At 14th level, your fury in battle makes you unstop- 
pable. While youre raging, your speed cannot be 
reduced, and you are immune to the frightened, 
paralyzed, prone, and stunned conditions. 
Ifyou are 
frightened, paralyzed, or stunned, you 
can still use a bonus action to enter a rage (even if 
you can’t otherwise take actions). You aren't affected 
by any of these conditions while you're raging. 
LOR 
DRDO 
KELJAIA ULOEH 
Female gnome Path of the Juggernaut barbarian 
When Kel'jaia sets her eyes on something, nothing 
can stop her from achieving it. Her small size has 
no bearing on her unbelievable strength, which 
‘can overpower creatures many times her size. She 
‘came to Tal'Dorei after the village on the Rifenmist 
Peninsula she was defending was razed by the 
Iron Authority. She first arrived in Syngorn, and 
through the connections and friendships she made 
there, was chosen to be a Syngornian delegate to 
the Tal’Dorei Council. She strongly believes that 
Tal'Dorei should take a stand against the cruelty 
of the Authority. Should strife come to Tal'Dorei, 
Keljaia is thought by all to be the council's first 
choice for the Master of War, due to her valor, tacti- 
cal cunning, and battle prowess. 
LD 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 168 ---
BARD 
You are a charming performer whose wit and 
words can inspire heroism in your allies and a 
ing sense of dread in your foes. When your bard 
character chooses a bard college at 3rd level, the 
College of Tragedy is a new option available ina 
Tal'Dorei campaign. 
COLLEGE OF TRAGEDY 
Not all grand stories conclude in triumphant victory. 
Many tales end with death and despair, and bards of 
the College of Tragedy know that sorrow and pathos 
are emotions just as potent as joy and delight. These 
bards specialize in the power of tragic storytelling, 
weaving 
words and spells together to dramatic and 
devastating effect. 
POETRY IN MISERY 
When you join the College of Tragedy at 3rd level, 
you learn to harness the beauty in failure, finding 
inspiration in even the direst twists of fate. Whenever 
you or an ally within 30 feet of you rolls a 1 on the 
420 for an attack roll, an ability check, or a saving 
throw, you can use your reaction to soliloquize and 
regain one expended use of your Bardic Inspira- 
tion feature. 
SORROWFUL FATE 
Starting at 3rd level, you exploit a foe's peril to 
instill deep feelings of sorrow and doom. When you 
or an ally you can see forces a creature to make a 
saving throw, you can expend one use of your Bardie 
Inspiration to change the type of saving throw to a 
ma save instead. 
s this save, roll a Bardic Inspira- 
tion die. The target takes psychic damage equal to 
the result, and is plagued with regret for 1 minute. 
Ifthe target is reduced to 0 hit points during this 
BALTHASAR BLEAKSKULL, 
Male half-giant College of Tragedy bard 
Born in Westruun and raised by two loving goliath 
parents—a towering warrior and an equally massive 
astronomer of the Yuminor Observatory—Balthasar 
Bleakskull was exposed to the adventuring lifestyle 
and academia from an early age. He tumbled into 
the art of theater when he was but a child, and fol- 
lowed his passion for drama into adulthood—when 
he was entangled in a bloodcurdling academic con- 
spiracy that left eight dead, including his dramatic 
mentor and his lover. Since then, he has devoted 
his dramatic skill to the art of tragedy, to grant his 
audiences the catharsis that he one day hopes to 
give himself. 
CHAPTER 4: CHARACTER OPTIONS 
time and can speak, they are magically compelled to 
utter darkly poetic final words before succumbing to 
their injuries. 
Once you use this feature, you can't use it again 
until you finish a short or long rest. 
TALE OF HUBRIS 
At 6th level, you learn to weave a magical narrative 
that draws out the fatal arrogance of your foes. When 
acreature scores a critical hit against you or an ally 
within 60 feet of you that you can see, you can use 
your reaction and expend one use of your Bardie 
Inspiration to target the attacking creature and evoke 
the story of their 
downfall. For 1 minute or until the 
target suffers a critical hit, any weapon attack against 
the target scores a critical hit on a roll of 18-20. 
At 14th level, the critical hit range of this feature 
increases 
to 17-20. 
IMPENDING MISFORTUNE 
Also at 6th level, your words can twist the power 
of fate to create triumph from the promise of future 
despair. When you make an attack roll or a saving 
throw, you can gain a +10 bonus to the roll, but the 
next attack roll or saving throw you make takes a ~10 
penalty. Ifnot used, this penalty disappears when 
you finish a short or long rest. 
You can't use this feature again until you finish 
a short or long rest, or until you are reduced to 0 
hit points. 
BALTHASAR 
BLEASKULL BY

--- PAGE 169 ---
168 
NIMBUS OF PATHOS, 
Upon reaching 14th level, you can touch a wi 
creature as an action and empower it with tragic 
heroism. For 1 minute, the creature is surrounded by 
mournful music and ghostly singing, granting it the 
following benefits and drawbacks: 
+ The creature has a +4 bonus to AC. 
+ Ithas advantage on attack rolls and saving throws. 
+ When the creature hits a target with a weapon 
attack or spell attack, that target takes an extra 
1d10 radiant damage. 
Any weapon attack against the creature scores a 
critical hit on a roll of 18-20. 
When this effect ends, the creature immediately 
drops to 0 hit points and is dying. Once you use 
this feature, you can't use it again until you finish a 
long rest. 
LASTERRE DE 
\irrevos 
CLERIC 
You are a wise disciple of one or more of Exandria's 
gods, whose divine hands can no longer shape the 
world on their own. When your cleric character 
chooses a divine domain at Ist level, you can consult 
your god's entry in chapter 2 for suggestions on 
which domains they might grant. The Blood Domain 
and Moon Domain are new options available in a 
Tal'Dorei campaign. 
BLOOD DOMAIN 
Developed in Wildemount by the Claret Orders, the 
Blood Domain centers around the understanding of 
the natural life force as it exists within the body, and 
the divine conduit it can become. Those who take up 
this domain understand that the power of blood is 
the power of sacrifice, the balance of life and death, 
and the spirit’s anchor within the mortal shell. 
Gods who grant the power of the Blood Domain, 
including the Ruiner and the Matron of Ravens, 
direct their followers to tap into the connection 
between body and soul, exploit the hidden reserves 
of will within one’s own vitality, and corrupt the 
bodies of others through the secret rites of hemo- 
craft. Clerics of good gods use hemocraft to fill their 
self-sacrifice with purpose and power, while 
clerics 
with fewer morals use the blood of others to achieve 
their own malevolent ends. 
DOMAIN SPELLS 
You gain domain spells at the cleric levels listed in 
the Blood Domain Spells table. 
BLOOD DoMAIN SPELLS 
ClericLevel_Spelis 
1st 
false life, sleep 
3rd 
hold person, ray of enfeeblement 
5th 
haste, slow 
7th 
blight, stoneskin 
9th 
dominate person, hold monster 
ALASTERRE DE VITREVOS 
Male human Blood Domain cleric 
The director of Tal'Dore'’s Claret Order is a metic- 
ulous, orderly man. He believes that he deserves 
all the good that comes to him in the world—and, 
in fairness, all the bad as well. He wields the unset- 
tling magic of hemocraft created by his order in 
service of both his organization's interests, and the 
ine interests of the Matron of Ravens. His goals 
are simple: purge the world of undead, particularly 
vampires, and make 
his name one sung across 
Exandria in the process. 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 170 ---
BONUS PROFICIENCIES 
When you choose this domain at Ist level, you gain 
proficiency with martial weapons. 
BLOODLETTING FOCUS 
Starting at Ist level, your divine magic draws the 
blood from magically inflicted wounds, wors- 
ening the agony of your foes. When you cast a 
damage-dealing spell of Ist level or higher whose 
duration is instantaneous, any creature with blood 
that takes damage from the spell takes extra necrotic 
damage equal to 2 + the spell’s level. 
CHANNEL DIVINITY: CRIMSON BOND 
Starting at 2nd level, you can use your Channel 
Divinity to form a supernatural bond with a creature 
you can see, or with a creature for which you possess 
a blood sample. This bond lasts for 1 hour or until 
your concentration is broken (as if concentrating 
ona spell). 
While the bond is in effect, you can use an action 
to learn the target's approximate distance and 
direction from you, as well as its current hit points 
and any conditions affecting it, as long as the target 
is within 10 
's of you. Alternatively, you can use 
your action to attempt to connect with the target's 
senses, You take 2d6 necrotic damage and the target 
makes a Constitution saving throw against your spell 
save DC. On a successful save, the bond ends. Ona 
failure, you can choose to either see or hear through 
the target's senses for a number of minutes equal to 
your Wisdom modifier (minimum 1 minute). During 
this time, you are blinded or deafened (respectively) 
with regard to your own senses. When the connec- 
tion ends, the bond is lost. 
Regardless of the outcome, the target feels a wave 
of unease pass over it when it makes this save. 
CHANNEL DIVINITY: BLOOD PUPPET 
Starting at 6th level, you can use your Channel 
Divinity to briefly control a creature's actions— 
whether that creature is living or dead. Asan action, 
you target a Large or smaller creature or corpse 
within 60 feet of you that has blood. A creature you 
target must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw 
against your spell save DC or become charmed by 
you. An unconscious creature automatically fails its 
saving throw, and isn’t incapacitated while you con- 
trol its actions. A corpse targeted by this effect gains 
a semblance of life that you control. 
On the affected creature or animated corpse’s 
turn, you can command it (no action required) to 
move up to half its speed and use its action to do one 
of the following: 
+ Interact with an object 
+ Make a single attack 
+ Do nothing 
CHAPTER 
4 
CHARACTER OPTIONS 
An animated corpse or an unconscious creature 
takes its turn immediately after yours, but can't move 
or take actions unless you command it to do so. Its sta- 
tistics are the same as when it was alive or conscious. 
An affected living creature makes a new saving 
throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect 
on itself 
on a success. For any target, your control 
lasts for 1 minute or until your concentration is bro- 
ken (as if concentrating on a spell). 
At 17th level, you can use this feature to target a 
Huge or smalller creature or corpse. 
SANGUINE RECALL 
At 6th level, you can sacrifice a portion of your own 
vitality to recover expended spell slots as an action. 
The spell slots can have a combined level equal to or 
less than half your cleric level (rounded up), and none 
of the slots can be 6th level or higher. You take 148 
necrotic damage for each spell slot level recovered, 
which can’t be reduced in any way. You can’t use this 
feature again until you finish a long rest. 
For example, if you're an 8th-level cleric, you 
can recover up to four levels of spell slots—a single 
4th-level slot, two 2nd-level slots, a 3rd-level slot and 
a Istlevel slot, or four Ist-evel slots. You then take 
4d8 necrotic damage. 
DIVINE STRIKE 
At 8th level, you gain the ability to cause the physical 
wounds you deal out to bleed profusely. Once on each 
of your turns when you hit a creature with a weapon 
attack, you can cause the attack to deal an extra 1d8 
necrotic damage to the target. When you reach 14th 
level, the extra damage increases to 248. 
VASCULAR CORRUPTION AURA 
At 17th level, you can use your action to emit a 
deathly aura of necrotic energy that causes the veins 
of nearby foes to burst and bleed. For 1 minute, any 
hostile creature with blood that moves within 30 feet 
of you for the first time on a turn or starts its turn 
there takes 3d6 necrotic damage. If 
a hostile crea- 
ture with blood regains hit points while in the aura, it 
regains only half as many hit points as expected. 
Once you use this feature, you can’t use it again 
until you finish a long rest. 
MOON DOMAIN 
Since the Founding, all mortal creatures have looked 
to the skies and sensed the power and mystery 
carried by Catha and Ruidus, the two moons of 
Exandria. The Moonweaver herself is said to guide 
her worshipers from within the pale glow of Catha, 
revealing hidden paths and granting inspired dreams 
to those who pray to that moon. Distant, dark Ruidus 
is often regarded with awe and apprehension, consid- 
ered a portent for fell deeds and bad luck. 
169

--- PAGE 171 ---
Clerics of the Moon Domain draw on their divine 
connection to the moons to wield light and shadow, 
invoke good fortune and ill favor, and reveal or 
conceal as they see fit. Most Moon clerics worship 
the Moonweaver herself, but her followers are as 
varied as the stars in the sky. Some seek to protect 
the vulnerable and do good in the world, while others 
meddle with impunity and distort the truth for selfish 
gain. Other Moon clerics worship not the gods but 
the moons themselves, especially those with an 
innate connection to the lunar cycles through 
lycanthropy. 
DOMAIN SPELLS 
You gain domain spells at the cleric levels listed in 
the Moon Domain Spells table. 
MOON Domain SPELLS 
Cleric Level Spells 
4st 
faerie fire, silent image 
3d 
_invisibility, moonbeam 
Sth 
hypnotic pattern, major image 
Tth 
greater invisibility, 
hallucinatory terrain 
9th 
dream, passwall 
CLARITY OF CATHA 
When you choose this domain at Ist level, you learn 
to shine light upon the mind's most dire moments, 
shielding those you protect. When a creature within 
30 feet of you that you can see makes a Wisdom 
saving throw, you can use your reaction to grant that 
creature advantage on the save. 
You can use this feature a number of 
times equal 
to your proficiency bonus, regaining all expended 
uses when you finish a long rest. 
NALYs ILDARETH 
Nonbinary (they/them) elf Moon Domain cleric 
The moons of Exandria show their faces for all to 
see, yet hide a secret face from the world. Nalys 
Iidareth, leader of an obscure Syngornian sect 
of the Moonweaver, believes that true reverence 
, 
requires all faithful to have a face they show to 
the world—represented by a mask of silver they 
never remove—and one they keep to themselves, 
beneath the mask. Nalys believes that it is their 
duty to enact the Moonweaver's will upon Exan- 
dria, and keep the world safe within the balance 
of Catha’s calm order and the ill-fated chaos of 
i 
Ruidus. They are thoughtful and calculating, seem- 
3 
ing an impassive observer while they wait for the 
proper moment to strike, but then transforming into 
a furious avenger when that moment arrives. 
CHANNEL DIVINITY: BLESSING 
OF THE FULL MOON 
Starting at 2nd level, you can use your Channel 
Divinity to infuse your allies with bestial power. As 
an action, you instill a willing creature of your choice 
within 30 feet of you that you can see with one of the 
following blessings of your choice: 
Blessing of the Watchful Moon. For 1 hour, the 
blessed creature’s speed increases by 10 feet, and it 
has advantage on Wisdom (Perception or Survival) 
checks involving smell or made to track a creature. 
Blessing of the Blood-Drenched Moon. For 
10 minutes, the blessed creature has advantage 
on attack rolls against a target if at least one of the 
blessed creature's allies is within 5 feet of the target 
and the ally isn't incapacitated. 
CHANNEL DIVINITY: MIND 
OF TWO MOONS 
Starting at 6th level, you can use your Channel 
Divinity to invoke the twofold arcana of Exandria’s 
moons. By expending 
one use of Channel Divinity, 
you can cast a second concentration spell while 
already concentrating on a first spell, as long as both 
spells are on your list of Moon Domain spells. If you 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING

--- PAGE 172 ---
need to make a Constitution saving throw to main- 
tain your concentration on both spells, you make 
the save with disadvantage. On a failure, you lose 
concentration on both spells. 
EMPOWERED CANTRIPS 
Starting at 8th level, your cleric cantrips deal extra 
damage equal to your Wisdom modifier (min- 
imum of 1). 
ECLIPSE OF ILL OMEN 
At 17th level, you can call upon the vermillion moon 
Ruidus to flare in the sky above you, eclipsing all 
other light. Its power surrounds 
you even where the 
sky can't be seen, and even on other planes. As a 
bonus action, you can manifest an area of reddish, 
dim light in a 60-foot radius around you. In addition 
to the normal effects of dim light, creatures in the 
area make saving throws with disadvantage. When 
you create this eclipse, you can choose any number 
of creatures that are unaffected by it. 
This eclipse lasts while you concentrate (as if 
concentrating on a spell) for up to 1 minute. Concen- 
trating 
on this feature counts as concentrating on a 
Moon Domain spell for the purpose of your Mind of 
‘Two Moons feature. 
CAMELLIA 
SpRINGSHOWER 
CHAPTER 
CHARACTER OPTIONS 
Additionally, once per turn when you deal radiant 
damage to any creatures in this area of dim light, 
you can curse one of those creatures until the eclipse 
ends (no action required). A creature cursed in this 
way has its speed halved and can't regain hit points. 
Once you use this feature, you can't use it again 
until you finish a long rest. 
DRUID 
As a druid, you are a keeper of the old ways, attuned 
to nature and channeling power that grants you 
spells and allows you to transform your body. When 
your druid character chooses a druid circle at 2nd 
level, the Circle of the Blighted is a new option avail- 
able in a Tal’'Dorei campaign. 
CIRCLE OF THE BLIGHTED 
Those who channel the magic of life and nature 
often find themselves drawn to a particular shrine 
or natural site, binding their body and spirit to these 
places of power. Such druids draw vitality from their 
chosen location, protecting it with their lives—but not 
all succeed in defending these sacred realm: 
Whether through the subtle corruption of vile 
magics, the tainted presence of an ancient terror, or 
aterrible mistake unleashed by druids themselves, a 
land can become cursed with magic that warps any 
druid bound to that land. Twisted by their connection 
to an unhallowed territory, these guardians come to 
embody the defiled nature they serve, exalting the 
natural process of decay and using it to further their 
goals—or sometimes to seek a means to end the 
curse that plagues them. 
CAMELLIA SPRINGSHOWER 
Female firbolg Circle of the Blighted druid 
Life was beautiful under the light of the sun for 
Camellia Springshower. The sun caused her 
flowers to flourish, and the rains nourished them 
so they could grow when next the sun arose. 
‘One day, however, she wandered too far from her 
family while they traveled the Dividing Plains, and 
tumbled into the bleak depths of Shadebarrow, a 
forgotten, accursed tomb. She ran for the light, but 
a specter reached out from the walls and touched 
a ghastly finger to her chest. She felt her blood 
fun cold, and the flowers within her basket wither 
away. Though she escaped the Shadebarrow, she 
was never able to find her family again, and she 
now wanders the Dividing Plains like an unteth- 
ered shadow—hoping to use the blighted powers 
granted to her by the shade 
to do some semblance 
of good in the world, even if all life seems to wither 
beneath her touch, 
m

--- PAGE 173 ---
172 
DEFILE GROUND 
Starting at 2nd level when you choose this circle, 
you can use a bonus action to corrupt a patch of land 
or an area of water in a 10-foot radius centered ona 
point within 60 feet of you. This corruption lasts for 
1 minute, The corrupted area is difficult terrain for 
creatures that are hostile to you. Additionally, when a 
creature in the area takes damage from an attack or 
spell for the first time on a turn, it takes an extra 1d4 
necrotic damage. You can move this patch of corrup- 
tion up to 30 feet as a bonus action. Flying creatures 
are unaffected by the corruption. 
Starting at 10th level, the area of your defiled 
ground increases to a 20-foot radius. Additionally, 
the extra damage dealt by your defiled ground 
increases to 1d6 when you reach 10th level in this 
class, and 1d8 at 14th level. 
Once you use this feature, you can't use it agai 
until you finish a short or long rest. 
BLIGHTED SHAPE 
Also at 2nd level, your physical form begins to show 
effects of the corruption you wield, tracing blackened 
veins across your skin, producing gnarled, bony 
protrusions, or other eerie phenomena. You gain 
proficiency in the Charisma (Intimidation) skill. 
Additionally, while you are transformed by you 
Wild Shape feature, you gain a +2 bonus to AC as 
gnarled spines protrude from your body. Your beast 
form also gains darkvision with a radius of 60 feet, 
or an additional 60 feet of darkvision if it already has 
that sense. 
CALL OF THE SHADOWSEEDS 
At 6th level, you learn to summon the feral children 
of the forest from the life force of your enemies. 
When a creature that is not undead or a construct 
takes damage within the area of your Defile Ground 
feature, you can use your reaction to summon a 
blighted sapling in an unoccupied space within 5 feet 
of the creature. You can direct the sapling to make 
an attack against any creature within 5 feet of it as 
@ part of this reaction. The sapling then acts on your 
initiative, obeying your verbal commands. 
The blighted sapling remains in your service until 
it’s reduced to 0 hit points, until the end of your next 
long rest, or until you summon another sapling, at 
which point 
it crumbles into foul-smelling mulch. You 
can use this feature a number of times equal to your 
proficiency bonus, regaining all expended uses when 
you finish a long rest. 
‘The sapling uses the statistics below. Its features 
scale based on your level and proficiency bonus (PB). 
DoT 
ATR TT 
BLIGHTED SAPLING 
‘Medium plant 
Armor Class 10 + PB (natural armor) 
Hit Points twice your druid level 
Speed 30 ft. 
STR 
DEX CON 
INT 
WIS 
CHA 
BC) 13(+1) 120) 463) 8-1) 3-4) 
Damage Vulnerabilities fire 
Damage Resistances necrotic, poison 
Condition Immunities blinded, deafened, poisoned 
Senses blindsight 
60 ft. (blind beyond this radius), 
passive Perception 9 
Languages understands the languages you speak 
Challenge — Proficiency Bonus (PB) equals your bonus 
ACTIONS 
Multiattack. When you reach 14th level in this class, 
the blighted sapling makes two claw attacks. 
Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: your spell attack 
modifier to hit, reach 5 ft, one target. Hit: 2d4 + PB 
piercing damage. 
Nd 
FOUL CONJURATION 
Starting at 10th level, the creatures you conjure are 
malformed and bloated with toxins. Any beast, fey, 
or plant (including your blighted sapling) summoned 
or created by your spells or class features gains the 
following traits: 
Blighted Resilience. The creature has immunity 
to necrotic and poison damage and to the poisoned 
condition. 
Toxic Demise. When the creature is reduced 
to O hit points, it explodes in a burst of toxic mulch 
or fetid viscera. Each creature within 5 feet of the 
exploding creature must succeed on a Constitution 
saving throw against your spell save DC or take 
necrotic damage based on the creature's challenge 
rating 
(see the table below). As an action, you can 
also cause a summoned creature to explode, imme: 
ately 
Toxic DEMISE DAMAGE 
Creature CR Damage 
1/4 or lower 1d4 necrotic damage 
12 
1d6 necrotic damage 
Jorhigher A number of d8s of necrotic 
damage equal to the creature’s chal- 
lenge rating 
No challenge A number of d6s of necrotic damage 
rating 
equal to your proficiency bonus 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 174 ---
INCARNATION OF CORRUPTION 
At 14th level, your physical form begins to take on 
the tainted traits of the land you are bonded to. Your 
skin grows ashen, and your eyes darken or turn 
completely white. Spines and jagged spurs emerge 
from your body, granting you resistance to necrotic 
damage and a +2 bonus to AC. 
Additionally, whenever you start your turn within 
the radius of the corruption created by your Defile 
Ground feature, you can use a bonus action to gain 
temporary hit points equal to your proficiency bonus. 
MONK 
You are a canny martial artist whose connection to 
the unseen energy of life grants you supernatural 
sights and the ability to manipulate your foes. 
When your monk character chooses a monastic 
tradition at 3rd level, 
the Way of the Cobalt Soul is a 
new option available ina Tal'Dorei campaign. 
CRESSIDA {LT 
CHAPTER 4: CHARACTER OPTIONS 
WAY OF THE COBALT SOUL 
Driven by the pursuit of knowledge and its scholars’ 
worship of the Knowing Mentor, the Library of the 
Cobalt Soul is one of the best-respected and most 
heavily guarded repositories of tomes, history, and 
information in all Exandria. People from all lands 
‘come to the library to seek knowledge, and those 
particularly dedicated to the virtues of truth often 
pledge their minds and bodies to the Cobalt Soul's 
cause. To become a member 
of the Cobalt Soul 
to give oneself over to a quest dedicated to unveil 
ing life’s mysteries, bringing light to the secrets of 
concealed evil, and guarding the most powerful and 
dangerous of truths from those whose unwholesome 
thirst for knowledge might bring death and suffering 
to others. 
The monks of the Cobalt Soul are the embodi 
ment of the maxim: “Know your enemy.” Through 
tireless research, they steel themselves against the 
unrelenting tides of evil. Through rigorous training, 
they learn to break through their foes’ mental and 
physical defenses. Then, once the fight is done, 
they record their findings for future generations of 
monks to study. 
CRESSIDA HOLT 
Nonbinary (she/they) orc Way of the Cobalt 
Soul monk 
A freshly titled expositor of the Cobalt Soul, Cres- 
sida Holt has already made a name for themself 
asa suave, stylish secret agent. Their assign- 
ments as an expositor take them across Tal'Dor 
though they are most often seen in Emon, Kymal, 
and Westruun, where they infiltrate political galas, 
high-stakes games of two-card, and other dens of 
high-society corruption. 
Though most Cobalt Soul expositors are 
‘expected to keep a low profile and gather intelli- 
gence, Cressida has found success with a flashier 
method, She strides into a room in a fine cobalt- 
blue suit, makes sensual eye contact with the most 
beautiful person in the room, and casually makes 
herself someone from whom no one can keep 
asecret. 
PRN 
EXTRACT ASPECTS 
Starting at 3rd level, you can strike pressure points 
to intuit crucial information about a foe. When you 
hit a creature with one of the attacks granted by your 
Flurry of Blows, you can analyze it. Whenever an 
analyzed creature misses you with an attack, you can 
immediately use your reaction to make an unarmed 
strike against that creature if it's within your reach. 
‘This benefit lasts until you finish a short or long rest.

--- PAGE 175 ---
174 
Additionally, when you analyze a creature, you 
learn all of its damage vulnerabilities, damage 
resistances, damage immunities, and condition 
immunities. 
EXTORT TRUTH 
Starting at 6th level, you can precisely strike a 
hidden cluster of nerves on a creature, temporarily 
preventing it from masking its true thoughts and 
intent. When you hit a creature with an unarmed 
strike, you can spend 1 ki point to force it to make 
a Charisma saving throw. Ona failed save, the 
creature is unable to speak a deliberate lie, 
and all 
Charisma checks directed at the creature are made 
with advantage for up to 10 minutes. You know if it 
succeeded or failed on its saving throw. 
An affected creature is aware of the effect and can 
thus avoid answering questions to which it would 
normally respond with a lie. Such a creature can be 
evasive in its answers as long 
as the effect lasts. 
Ifyou wish to impose this effect on a creature with- 
out injuring it, you can attack the creature to simply 
touch it, dealing no damage on a hit. 
MYSTICAL ERUDITION 
Also by 6th level, you have extensively studied the 
history and lore within the archives of the Cobalt 
Soul. You learn one language of your choice, and you 
gain proficiency with one of the following skills of 
your choice: Arcana, History, Investigation, Nature, 
or Religion. If you already have proficiency in one 
of the listed skills, you can instead choose to double 
your proficiency bonus for any ability check you make 
that uses the chosen proficiency. 
You gain an additional language and an additional 
skill proficiency from the above list (or you can dou- 
ble the bonus of an existing proficiency from the list) 
at 11th and 17th level. 
MIND OF MERCURY 
Starting at 11th level, you've honed your awareness 
and reflexes through mental aptitude and pattern 
recognition. Once per turn, if you've already taken 
your reaction, you may spend 1 ki point to take an 
additional reaction. You can use only one reaction 
per triggering effect. 
DEBILITATING BARRAGE 
Upon reaching 17th level, you've gained the knowl- 
edge to manipulate a creature's ki to undermine 
their fortitude. When you hit a creature with an 
unarmed strike, you can spend 3 ki points to cause 
the creature to gain vulnerability to one damage type 
of your choice for 1 minute, or until the end of aturn 
in which it has taken damage of that type. 
If acreature has resistance to the damage type 
you choose, this resistance is suppressed for 1 
minute, rather than gaining vulnerability. A creature 
that is immune to the damage type you choose is 
unaffected. A creature who is affected by this feature 
cannot be affected by it again for 24 hours. 
PALADIN 
You are an honorable warrior whose devotion to a 
cause or ideal empowers you with righteous magic. 
When your paladin character chooses a sacred oath 
at 3rd level, the Oath of the Open Sea is a new option 
available in a Tal'Dorei campaign. 
OATH OF THE OPEN SEA 
The Oath of the Open Sea calls to seafaring war- 
riors, swashbuckling sailors, and traveling guardians 
who seek the thrill of 
a limitless horizon. Driven. 
to search for adventure and mystery across and 
beneath every endless oceanic 
expanse, paladins 
who swear this oath stand against those who would 
deny liberty to likeminded travelers, rooting out tyr- 
anny and corruption wherever it is found. 
Such guardians believe in the natural beauty of the 
sea, often making offerings and prayers to entities 
or deities such as the Wildmother or the Stormlord 
who influence safe passage. At the same time, they 
answer the call to hunt the monstrous creatures that 
too often bloody the waters with wanton violence 
and ill intent, and which terrorize the folk of the sea 
and shore. 
FRAN 
SHIRKUH MARIN 
Male human Oath of the Open Sea paladin 
Though he is only in his early 30s, famed sailor 
Shirkuh Marin is well on the way to having his 
life become an epic sung in taverns all over the 
Lucidean Ocean. Born a girl to Marquesian immi: 
grant parents in Nicodranas on Wildemount’s 
Menagerie Coast, Shirkuh took his present name 
from his great-granduncle, an infamous Marquesian 
pirate. He swore to wear that name with pride, and 
has followed his own code of honor and ethics ever 
ce. He has worked hand-in-hand with both hon- 
est sailors and pirates of the Revelry—and clashed 
‘swords with both, too. 
Oftthe many tales that surround Shirkuh, it’s 
unclear which are true—if 
he truly outran a juve- 
nile kraken in the Shearing Channel, if he indeed 
cheated the Plank King in a game of two-card and 
lived to tell the tale, and if he actually managed to. 
steal the heart of a Clasp Spireling in Kymal. But 
most agree that even if the stories are made up, he 
possesses both the talent and the recklessness to 
have accomplished them if he set his mind to it. 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN 
ee 
a

--- PAGE 176 ---
TENETS OF THE OPEN SEA 
Freedom can be a selfless virtue or a selfish want. 
For paladins who swear the Oath of the Open Sea, 
freedom is the highest calling, and a gift to be 
granted to all. 
No Greater Life than a Life Lived Free. One 
should be free to chart their own path without 
oppression. Those who would exert their power to 
dominate others shall be smote. 
Trust the Skies. The guidance of a strong breeze. 
The rumbling warnings of a coming storm. Nature 
is a source of portent and council that should 
be heeded. 
Adapt Like the Water. The waters of the ocean 
can shift around any obstacle—or become the most 
impassable obstacle of all. They carve away the land 
to reveal the secrets of the past, or swallow the truth 
and hide it forever. To embrace this fluidity is to be 
ready for any challenge. 
Explore the Uncharted. The world is filled with 
mystery. Through the pursuit of enigmatic ends, one 
can uncover those who hide their foul deeds, and 
find the path to becoming something great. 
OATH SPELLS 
You gain oath spells at the paladin levels listed in 
the Oath of the Open Sea Spells Spells marked with 
an asterisk are new spells described at the end of 
this section. 
OATH OF THE OPEN SEA SPELLS. 
Paladin Level Spells 
3rd 
create or destroy water, 
expeditious retreat 
5th 
‘augury, misty step 
9th 
call lightning, freedom of the waves* 
13th 
control water, freedom of movement 
17th 
commune with nature, freedom of 
the winds* 
CHANNEL DIVINITY 
When you take this oath at 3rd level, you gain the 
following two Channel Divinity options. 
‘Marine Layer. As an action, you channel the sea 
to create a thick cloud of fog that surrounds you for 
20 feet in all directions. The fog moves with you, 
remaining centered on you and making its area heav- 
ily obscured. You and each creature within 5 feet of 
you instead treat the area as lightly obscured. This 
fog lasts for 10 minutes, spreads around corners, and 
cannot be dispersed unless you choose to end this 
effect (no action required). 
Fury of the Tides. As a bonus action, you channel 
the powerful might of the waves to bolster your 
attacks for 1 minute. Once per turn for the duration, 
when you hit a creature with a weapon attack, you 
CHAPTER 4: CHARACTER OPTION: 
can choose to push the target 10 feet away from 
you. If pushed into an obstacle or another creature, 
the target takes bludgeoning damage equal to your 
Charisma modifier. 
RULES TIP: VISIBILITY 
Fog and other effects can obscure vision for you, 
your enemies, and your allies. When you heavily 
‘obscure an area using your Marine Layer Channel 
Divinity 
option, all creatures within the area have 
their vision completely blocked, and creatures out- 
side the area can’t see in. Creatures that can't see 
automatically fail ability checks that require sight. 
Also, attack rolls against creatures that can't see 
have advantage, and their own attack rolls have 
disadvantage. 
Creatures in a lightly obscured area have dis- 
advantage only on Wisdom (Perception) checks 
that rely on sight. The rules for when your vision 
is obscured are described completely in the fifth 
edition core rules. 
SHIRKUH MARIN

--- PAGE 177 ---
AURA OF LIBERATION 
Starting at 7th level, you fill nearby creatures with 
the energy of movement. While you're not inca- 
pacitated, you and creatures of your choice within 
10 feet of you cannot be grappled or restrained, 
and ignore penalties on movement and attacks 
while underwater. Creatures that are already grap- 
pled or restrained when they enter the aura can 
spend 5 feet of movement to automatically escape 
unless they are bound by magic restraints. 
When you reach 18th level in this class, the aura 
affects creatures within 30 feet of you. 
STORMY WATERS 
At 15th level, you can call on the force of crashing 
waters as a reaction whenever a creature moves into 
or out of your reach. The creature takes 1d12 blud- 
geoning damage and must succeed on a Strength 
saving throw against your spell save DC or be 
knocked prone. 
MYTHIC SWASHBUCKLER 
At 20th level, you learn to channel the spirits of 
historic sea captains to briefly become a paragon of 
heroic adventure. As an action, you embrace these 
spirits of the sea to gain the following benefits for 
1 minute: 
+ You have advantage on Strength (Athletics) checks 
and you gain a climbing speed equal to your walk- 
ing speed. If you already have a climbing speed, it 
is doubled. 
Ifyou are within 5 feet of a creature and no other 
creatures are within 5 feet of you, you have advan- 
tage on attack rolls against that creature. 
+ You can take the Dash or Disengage action as a 
bonus action. 
You have advantage on Dexterity checks and Dex- 
terity saving throws against effects you can see. 
Once you use this feature, you can’t use it again 
until you finish a long rest. 
OATH OF THE OPEN SEA SPELLS 
Paladins of the Oath of the Open Sea automati- 
cally gain two new spells through their Oath Spells 
feature. These spells can also be learned by druids, 
rangers, and sorcerers of the appropriate level, at the 
GM's discretion. 
FREEDOM OF THE WAVES 
3rd-level conjuration 
Casting Time: 1 action 
Range: 120 feet 
Components: V, S, M (a strand of wet hair) 
Duration: Instantaneous 
You conjure a deluge of seawater ina 15-foot-ra- 
dius, 10-foottall cylinder centered on a point within 
range. This water takes the form of a tidal wave, 
a whirlpool, a waterspout, or another form of your 
choice. Each creature in the area must succeed on 
a Strength saving throw against your spell save DC 
or take 2d8 bludgeoning damage and fall prone. 
You can choose a number of creatures equal to your 
spellcasting modifier (minimum of 1) to automati- 
cally succeed on this saving throw. 
Ifyou are within the spell’s area, as part of the 
action you use to cast the spell, you can vanish into 
the deluge and teleport to an unoccupied space that 
you can see within the spell’s area. 
FREEDOM OF THE WINDS 
Sth-level abjuration 
Casting Time: 1 action 
Range: Self 
Components: V, S, M (a scrap of sailcloth) 
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes 
Wind wraps around your body, tugging at your hair 
and clothing as your feet lift off the ground. You 
gain a flying speed of 60 feet. Additionally, you have 
advantage on ability checks to avoid being grappled, 
and on saving throws against being restrained or 
paralyzed. 
When you are targeted by a spell or attack while 
this spell is in effect, you can use a reaction to tele- 
port up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space you can 
see. If this movement takes you out of range of the 
triggering spell or attack, you are unaffected by it 
This spell then ends when you reappear. 
SORCERER 
You are a spellcaster to whom magic comes as nat- 
urally as breathing, possessing an instinctive grasp 
of its power—for that power flows through your very 
veins. When your sorcerer character chooses a sor- 
cerous origin at Ist level, the Runechild origin is a 
new option available in a Tal’Dorei campaign. 
RUNECHILD 
‘The mysterious weave and flow of magic is feared by 
many folk across Exandria. But while some spellcast- 
ers must study the essence and nature of magic in the 
hope of learning to harness it, sorcerers possess an 
innate talent to sculpt and wield the errant strands 
of power that shape the world, For some sorcerers, 
the body becomes a conduit for this power, which is 
collected and stored in the form of natural runes—and 
which sees a sorcerer named as a Runechild. 
‘The talents of 
a Runechild are rare, and sorcerers 
with this origin are sought after for study by mages 
and scholars alike, driven by a prevalent belief 
that the secrets of their runes can help understand 
the mysteries of magic. Others sometimes seek to 
enslave Runechild sorcerers, using their bodies 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 178 ---
as tortured spell batteries for diabolic pursuits. 
Runechild sorcerers were subjugated throughout 
the Age of Arcanum, and many of their contempo- 
raries now search for ways to hide their essence—a 
task that isn't easy given the revealing nature of 
their gifts, 
KARZADRAWN “KARZY” SUNSCALE 
Male brass dragonblood Runechild sorcerer 
When you're a model ina city as big as Emon, 
you've got to find a way to stand out. Being a 
broad-shouldered, heavyset dragonblood with 
brass scales that twinkle in the sun is a good start, 
but Karzy Sunscale has another 
ace up his sleeve: 
he's a runechild. Ever since he was an infant, he 
has manifested strange magical abilities, and when 
he expresses intense emotions through his magi: 
mysterious runes flare to life upon his scales. All of 
these traits have always made Karzy the center of 
attention, and he basks in other peoples’ interest 
like a lizard in the sun. He goes out of his way to 
dress in outrageous fashions and emote as vividly 
as he can. He works as a fashion model in Emon, 
but the idea has worked 
its 
way into his head that 
he could make an even bigger splash if he were to 
‘also become a celebrity adventurer by completing 
truly monumental quest. 
AARZADRAWN “{ARZY 
SUNSCALE 
CHAPTER 4: CHARACTER OPTIONS 
ESSENCE RUNES. 
At Ist level, your body begins to express your innate 
magic as runes traced out across your skin. You start 
with 1 essence rune, and gain an additional rune 
Whenever 
you gain a level in this class. These runes 
can manifest anywhere on your body, though the 
first usually manifests on the forehead. Your essence 
runes remain invisible when inert. 
‘At the end of a turn during which you spent one or 
more sorcery points, a number of your essence runes 
equal to the number of sorcery points you spent 
begin to glow with stored energy, becoming charged 
runes. You use these charged runes to power your 
Runechild subclass features. Also, as a bonus 
action, you may spend a sorcery point to convert two 
essence runes into two charged runes. 
Ifyou have 5 or more charged runes, you emit 
bright light in a 5-foot radius and dim light for an 
additional 5 feet. 
If you expend a charged rune to use one of your 
Runechild features, it returns to being an inert 
essence rune. Any charged runes also revert to inert 
essence runes afier you finish a long rest. 
RUNIC MAGIC 
Beginning at Ist level, you learn additional spells 
when you reach certain levels in this class, as shown 
on the Runic Spells table. Each of these spells 
counts as a sorcerer spell for you, but it doesn't count 
against the number of sorcerer spells you know. 
‘When you gain a level in this class, you can replace 
‘one spell you gained from this feature with another 
spell of the same level. The new spell must be an 
abjuration or transmutation spell from the sorcerer, 
warlock, or wizard spell list. 
RUNIC SPELLS 
Sorcerer Level Spells 
1st 
longstrider, protection from 
evil and good 
3rd 
lesser restoration, protection 
from poison 
sth 
glyph of warding, magic circle 
7th 
death ward, freedom of movement 
9th 
greater restoration, telekinesis 
GLYPH OF AEGIS. 
Starting at Ist level, you can release the stored 
arcane power within your runes to absorb or deflect 
threatening attacks. Whenever you take damage, 
you can expend any number of charged runes as a 
reaction. Roll a number of d6s equal to the number 
of runes you expended, and reduce the damage by 
the total. 
When you reach 6th level, you can touch a creature 
as an action and expend up to 3 charged runes to

--- PAGE 179 ---
transfer your protective power to it for up to 1 hour. 
The next time that creature takes damage within the 
next hour, it rolls 1d6 per charged rune spent and 
reduces the damage by the total. You can't transfer 
this power to a creature already under the effect of 
Glyph of Aegis. 
Your Glyph of Aegis die becomes a d8 at 14th level. 
SIGILIC AUGMENTATION 
At 6th level, you can channel your runes to temporar- 
ily bolster your physical capabilities. When you make 
a Strength, Dexterity, or Constitution ability check, 
you can expend a charged rune asa reaction to gain 
advantage on the roll. 
In addition, when you are forced to make a 
Strength, Dexterity, or Constitution saving throw, 
you can use your reaction and expend a charged 
Tune to gain advantage on the saving throw. Once 
you use this feature in this way, you can't use it in 
this way again until you complete a long rest. 
MANIFEST INSCRIPTIONS 
Also at 6th level, you can reveal hidden glyphs and 
enchantments that surround you. As an action, 
you expend one charged rune to reveal hidden or 
invisible arcane traps, marks, runes, wards, sensors, 
or glyphs within 60 feet of you. They glow with dim 
light in a 5-foot radius for 1 minute. 
You have advantage on Intelligence (Arcana) 
checks to discern the nature of any magic revealed 
in this way for the duration. If the glyphs you reveal 
mean something in a language you can't read, you 
can understand them while they are glowing as if 
you knew that language. 
RUNIC TORRENT 
Upon reaching 14th level, you can channel runic 
energy to overpower even the staunchest defenses. 
When you cast a spell, you can expend 2 charged 
runes to cause the spell to deal force damage instead 
of its usual damage types. Additionally, all crea- 
tures targeted by the spell or within the spell's area 
must succeed on a Strength saving throw against 
your spell save DC or be knocked prone or pushed 
up to 15 feet away from the spell's point of origin 
(your choice). 
Once you use this feature, you can't do so again 
until you complete a short or long rest. 
ARCANE EXEMPLAR 
Starting at 18th level, you can use a bonus action 
and expend a charged rune to become a being of 
pure magical energy. While in your exemplar form, 
you gain the following benefits: 
+ You have a flying speed of 
60 feet. 
+ Creatures have disadvantage on saving throws 
against your sorcerer spells. 
+ You have resistance to damage dealt by spells. 
+ Whenever you cast a spell of Ist level or higher, 
you regain hit points equal to the spell's level. 
Your exemplar form lasts until the end of your 
turn, However, you can expend a charged rune at the 
end of your turn (no action required) to extend the 
duration until the end of your next turn. When your 
exemplar form ends, you are stunned until the end of 
your next turn, 
Once you use this feature, you can’t use it again 
until you complete a long rest. 
WIZARD 
You are a studious spellcaster who has earned 
your influence over arcane power through long 
hours of rigorous learning. When your wizard 
character chooses an arcane tradition at 2nd 
level, Blood Magic is a new option available in a 
Tal’Dorei campaign. 
BLOOD MAGIC 
Considered taboo by many societies and magic 
practitioners, the use of blood magic—also known 
as hemocraft—is a rare art that harnesses the latent 
powers of a creature's vitality to fuel and amplify 
the caster’s own capabilities, while manipulating 
and weakening the bodies of enemies from the 
inside. Some of the more macabre mages seeking 
to empower their arcane pursuits turn to hemocraft 
as a means of bolstering 
their spells, giving their 
own life's blood to reach new heights of frightening 
magical prowess. 
The secrets of hemocraft and other forms of blood 
magic were once the sole purview of the mysteri 
ous Claret Orders, In recent years, however, these 
secrets have begun to spread beyond the order's 
members and into the hands of less scrupulous 
mages. Blood magic has a bad reputation in 
Tal Dorei, even though 
its powers can be used for 
much more than evil. 
BLOOD CHANNELING 
When you choose this arcane tradition at 2nd level, 
you are able to use your own depleted life essence 
to channel your magical abilities. Whenever your 
current hit points are below your hit point maximum, 
you can use your own body as an arcane focus. 
In addition, when casting a wizard spell that 
requires a costly material 
component, you can forego 
the component by taking 1d10 necrotic damage per 
50 gp of the cost of the component 
(minimum 1d10). 
This damage can’t be reduced in any way. If this 
damage reduces you to 0 hit points, the spell fails but 
the spell slot is not expended. 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 180 ---
SANGUINE BURST 
Also at 2nd level, you learn how to weave your life 
force into a spell you cast, boosting its intensity at 
the cost of your vitality. Whenever you roll damage 
for a spell you've cast of 1st level or higher, you can 
choose to take necrotic damage equal to the spell’s 
level to reroll a number of the damage dice up to your 
Intelligence modifier (minimum one). This damage 
can’t be reduced in any way, and you must use the 
new rolls. 
BOND OF MUTUAL SUFFERING 
At 6th level, when a creature you can see hits you 
with an attack, you can use your reaction to bind 
your vitality to the attacker and force them to share 
your pain, The attacker takes damage equal to the 
damage you took. 
This feature cannot be used against constructs 
or undead. You can use this feature once. You must 
finish a short or long rest before you can use it again. 
At 14th level, you can use this feature twice 
between rests. 
GLYPH OF HEMORRHAGING 
Starting at 10th level, when you damage a creature 
with a spell, you can choose to curse that creature 
for 1 minute. While cursed in this way, whenever 
the creature is hit by an attack, it takes an extra 1d6 
necrotic damage. At the end of each of the creature's 
turns, it can make a Constitution saving throw 
against your spell save DC, ending the curse on 
asuccess. 
‘This feature cannot be used against creatures 
that are undead or constructs. Once you use this 
feature, you can’t use it again until you finish a short 
or long rest. 
THICKER THAN WATER 
Upon reaching 14th level, the blood that flows 
through your veins is empowered with arcane vigor 
that mends wounds and helps preserve your life. 
Whenever a spell or magical effect causes you to 
regain hit points, you regain an additional number of 
hit points equal to your proficiency bonus. 
In addition, while you are concentrating on a spell, 
you have resistance to bludgeoning, piercing, and 
slashing damage from nonmagical attacks. 
CHAPTER 
4 SHARACTER OPTIONS. 
HONOR KINNABAR 
TT 
HONOR KINNABARI 
Female tiefling Blood Magic wizard 
It's not easy being the youngest spellwright in the 
League of Miracles, especially when you've got a 
conscience. Honor Kinnabari was enamored with 
the league since she was a child in Westruun, when 
she saw the spellwrights and their adranach con- 
structs rebuild the entire Market Ward in a matter 
of days after it was reduced to a slag pit by a hoard 
‘of magma landsharks. She was raised by dwarf 
parents from the Alabaster Sierras, and wears 
wizardlly robes in the style of their clan in honor of 
them. Honor has just constructed an adranach of 
her own, and has begun leading small-scale opera- 
tions for the league, but she's starting to worry that 
something cultish and sinister lurks beneath her 
compatriots’ practiced smiles. 
a

--- PAGE 181 ---
BACKGROUNDS 
Every player character ina fifth edition fantasy 
roleplaying game has a background. While your 
class represents your role in an adventuring party, 
your background represents who you were and 
what you learned before you began your adventur- 
ing career. Your background doesn’t necessarily 
have to be confined to the past, though, as the way it 
marks your connections to the world might involve 
ongoing commitments to an organization or even an 
entire people. 
The new backgrounds in this section each grant 
your character new proficiencies, languages, and 
‘equipment, as well as a unique background feature. 
Tables of characteristics can also help you quickly 
generate personality traits, ideals, character flaws, 
and bonds to tie your character to the people, places, 
and causes of a Tal'Dorei campaign. 
ASHARI 
Isolated from the political struggles of urban 
Tal'Dorei, you are a member of the Ashari people—a 
society bound to an ancient covenant protecting the 
Material Plane from the chaos of the primordial 
elements. You've been raised to revere and protect 
the natural world, and to shepherd the tumultuous 
elemental forces that give it life. When the elements 
threaten to overwhelm the delicate balance of nature, 
itis the role of the Ashari to restore harmony. 
You grew up in a tight-knit society, bound to a 
leader who successfully returned from the tradi- 
tional journey to the Elemental Planes known a 
Aramante. By contrast, you might well have never 
traveled more than a few days from your home, and 
thus have closer bonds with your family and neigh- 
bors than many people of Tal’Dorei. 
In your early life, you likely took up one of the 
many roles that make up your society, whether home- 
maker, hunter, explorer, or protector. If you have the 
ability to use elemental magic, you might have had 
‘one of the most important duties of all: protecting 
and soothing the elemental rift at the heart of your 
home. And even as an adventurer now traveling far 
beyond that home, your loyalties still lie with the 
continued safety of your order. Whatever else you do 
as you learn about the new world around you, you're 
conscious of the need to gather allies to your cause. 
Each Ashari is tethered to one of the four ele- 
‘mental orders and their settlements. You must 
select Pyrah (fire), Vesrah (water), Terrah (earth), or 
Zephrah (wind). The rifts of earth and air are both 
in Tal'Dorei, If you live or lived among your people, 
then you are familiar with the remarkable sights of 
Air Ashari on skysails above the Summit Peaks, or 
Earth Ashari erupting from the solid stone of the 
Cliffkeep Mountains on their earthboards (see page 
198 for these magic items’ game statistics). 
Skill Proficiencies: Nature, plus your choice of 
Arcana or Survival 
Tool Proficiencies: Herbalism kit 
Languages: Primordial (Aquan, Auran, Ignan, or 
Terran, depending on the elemental affinity of 
your tribe) 
ipment: A set of traveler's clothes, a staff carved 
with symbols of your tribe, an herbalism kit, and a 
belt pouch containing 10 gp 
ATURE: ELEMENTAL HARMONY 
Growing up surrounded by wild elemental ma; 
has attuned your senses to those chaotic forces, 
enabling you to subtly bend them to your will. As 
an action, you channel minor magic involving the 
element of your chosen Ashari order, giving you one 
of the following abilities: 
Pyrah. You 
instantaneously create and control a 
burst of flame small enough to light a candle, a torch, 
ora small campfire. Alternatively, you snuff out a 
flame of the same size. 
Terrah. You instantaneously create a small rock 
no larger than a gold coin. The rock appears in your 
hand, then turns to dust after 1 minute. 
Vesrah. You instantaneously create enough hot or 
cold water to fill a small drinking vessel. 
Zephrah. You create an instantaneous puff of 
wind strong enough to blow papers off a desk or 
mess up someone's hair. 
SUGGESTED CHARACTERISTICS 
‘The Ashari hold themselves removed from the rest 
of Tal'Dorei by their own choice. This makes many 
Ashari naive to the ways of the world beyond their 
homes—but it can also make them determined, 
steadfast, and tightly focused on their goals. Ever 
since Keyleth, Voice of the Tempest and leader 
of the Zephrah, became a world-renowned hero, 
the Air Ashari at least have become more familiar 
to Tal’Dorei’s other peoples. They are known to 
welcome outsiders to their mountaintop enclave, 
and to take on quests that force them to leave their 
isolated home. 
To learn more about your character’s Ashari order, 
see “The Ashari” on page 48. 
ASHARI PERSONALITY TRAITS 
d8 
Personality Trait 
1 
I like to keep my hands busy, no matter 
where | am. 
2 
I love to explore new places and meet 
new people. 
3 
I meditate at dawn each day—and | can't 
stand it when my routine is interrupted. 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 182 ---
d8 
Personality Trait 
4 
{like noticing patterns in the world around me, 
whether or not they mean anything, 
5 
I don't let anything—or anyone—stand in the 
way of my mission. 
6 
I'ma plain talker, even with people who 
outrank me. 
7 
(ve always got some of my native element 
with me in some form. (This might be 
modeling clay, pure water, special burning 
incense, or a bottled cloud.) 
8 | talk with everyone like I've known them all 
my life. Because most people | know, |have 
known all my life! 
ASHARI IDEALS 
d6 
Ideal 
1. 
Destiny. | believe that everyone has a role to 
play. Now I just have to find mine. (Neutral) 
2 
Community. it's important to surround 
yourself with people you can count on, and 
‘who will support you. (Good) 
3 
Knowledge. | want to learn everything I can 
about the Elemental Planes—and maybe even 
visit them myself. (Neutral) 
4 
Freedom. | don't care what anyone says. Even 
if it causes problems, the elements must be 
free, And so should I. (Chaotic) 
5 
Structure. The elements are in harmony when 
they are free to act as they will, within the 
safe boundaries set by the Ashari. People are 
much the same. (Lawful) 
6 
Virtuous Cycle. If| see someone who needs 
help, | feel compelled to assist them. Surely 
they'll return the favor someday! (Good) 
ASHARI BONDS 
d6 Bond 
1 
Ihave a cousin in another Ashari tribe whom 
I've never met, but someday 
| want to visit my 
extended family. 
2 
The leader of my tribe thinks | could be 
their successor, but | worry that | don’t have 
‘enough experience to lead my people. 
3 
Amysterious person killed a member of my 
family. I've left home to discover who the killer 
was—and to seek vengeance. 
4 
My oldersibling set out on their Aramante a 
year ago, and | haven't seen them since. 
5 
When! wasa baby, a giant eagle brought 
me to Zephrah. love my family, but | often 
wonder who my birth parents are. 
6 
{trust my animal friends more than any 
humanoid ally. 
CHAPTER 4: CHARACTER OPTIONS 
AsHaRI FLAWS 
dé Flaw 
1 
Big cities are overwhelming. | get nervous 
when surrounded by people | don’t know. 
2 
Iknow all too welll that elemental power is, 
dangerous—but 
| like playing around with 
anyway. 
3 
I get surly if go too long without being in 
contact with my native element. 
4 
I think the mission of my people is a fool's 
errand. They should abandon isolation, let 
the elements be, and enjoy the pleasures of 
the world! 
5 
I can't stand it when people say one thing and 
mean another! Just say what you mean! 
6 
Ugh, 
| know it’s not right, but I can’t help but 
look down on people who can't manipulate 
the elements. It's not like it's hard! 
CLASP MEMBER 
Whether you grew up in the mean streets of Kymal 
bamboozling foolish gamblers, or spent your youth 
pilfering loose coin from the pockets of Emon's many 
tourists, your lifestyle of deceiving-to-survive eventu- 
ally drew the attention of the Clasp: a storied crime 
syndicate that has hideouts in every city in Tal'Dorei. 
In exchange for protection, a modicum of kinship, 
and a number of useful resources to further develop 
your craft as a criminal, you agreed to receive the 
brand of the Clasp and join their ranks. 
You might have spent time working the guild’s 
most menial assignments, wandering 
the alleys as a 
simple cutpurse and filling your pockets with silver 
while you waited to climb the professional ladder. Or 
you might be a clever actor and liar, whose skill at 
blending in with all facets of society has made you 
an indispensable spy. Perhaps your swift technique 
with a blade led you to become a feared assassin for 
the Spireling leader of a local Clasp sect. Regard- 
less, though the threat of the law is ever looming, 
the advantages to having 
a connection to such a 
powerful cartel greatly outweighs your paranoia. 
Most of the time. 
Since the Clasp is an organization, its members 
can rise in rank by proving their worth, by making 
the right friends in high places, or even through 
blackmail and bribery. You and the Game Master can 
decide together how your actions affect your rank in 
the Clasp, and what benefits that rank grants you. 
Skill Proficiencies: Deception, plus your choice of 
Sleight of Hand or Stealth 
Tool Proficiencies: Disguise kit, forgery kit, or 
thieves’ tools (one of your choice) 
Languages: Thieves’ Cant 
Equipment: A set of inconspicuous common clothes, 
181

--- PAGE 183 ---
FEATURE: A FAVOR IN TURN 
You have gained enough clout in the Clasp that you 
can call in a favor from your contacts whenever 
you're close enough to a center of syndicate activity. 
‘A request for a favor can be no longer than 20 words, 
and is passed up the chain to an undisclosed Spire- 
ling for approval. This favor can take on any form 
subject to the approval of the GM, who decides how 
itis fulfilled. If muscle is requested, an NPC member 
of the Clasp (using statistics found in chapter 6) can 
temporarily aid your party. If money is needed, a 
small loan can be provided. If you've been imp 
‘oned, Clasp operatives can look into breaking you 
‘out or paying off the jailer. 
At some point, the favor will be called in for repay- 
ment, often without warning. Refusing the call will 
result in your termination—literally. You might be 
called on to commit a specific burglary, or to pres- 
sure an Emonian dignitary to reveal a secret at an 
upcoming ball. The Clasp might even demand that 
you assassinate a specific person, with no questions 
asked or answered. It's 
the GM's prerogative to 
ensure that the syndicate’s request is proportionate 
to the favor they bestowed—or that they compensate 
you in other ways for a service that goes beyond the 
scope of repaying the initial favor. 
VARIANT: MYRIAD OPERATIVE 
Your skill set might be similar to that of many 
members of the Clasp, but you work for a criminal 
organization that is far more sophisticated—and even 
less scrupulous. As 
a Myriad operative in Tal'Dorei, 
you might have been given a specific task that 
furthers that syndicate’s hunger to expand beyond 
Wildemount, or which gives them an edge in their 
rivalry with the Clasp. Moreover, you understand the 
wisdom of keeping your activities secret from fellow 
criminals as well as law enforcement, since the 
agents of the Clasp will show you no mercy if your 
true identity is ever revealed. 
SUGGESTED CHARACTERISTICS 
The Clasp enjoys a strange status in Tal’Dorei. The 
syndicate is a feared group of thieves and killers, 
whose name is often invoked only in whispers. But at 
the same time, the organization has a reputation for 
guerilla heroism, in response to its members having 
saved countless lives when the Chroma Conclave 
attacked Emon. And so like every Clasp member, 
your own reputation often swings between these 
two poles. 
Your bond is likely associated with your fellow 
Clasp members or the individual who introduced 
you to the syndicate. Your ideal probably involves 
establishing your importance and indispensability to 
the Clasp. 
CLASP MEMBER PERSONALITY TRAITS 
d8 
Personality Trait 
1 
What's life without risk? I'm always willing to 
take a risk if the reward seems worth it. 
2 
only show my emotions around people | 
really trust. 
3 
I don't need friends; Ineed allies. When 
| do 
make “friends,” | only consider what they can 
do for me. 
4 
[100k for simple solutions. The world's full of 
tough problems, but a well-placed knife is a 
one-size-fits-all answer. 
5 — Money talks. | don't. We've got an efficient 
relationship. 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 184 ---
d8 
Personality Trait 
6 
used to have one rule—don't get involved in 
other people's problems. Why are things so 
complicated now? 
7 
Crime is a game, and | play to win. | have no 
sympathy for players who don't get that. 
8 
This organization has a lot of folks who cling 
to ugly, brutal practices. I'm not like that 
I'm a professional, and professionals have 
standards. 
CLASP MEMBER IDEALS 
d6 
Ideal 
1 
By Any Means. | complete jobs. Collateral 
damage isn’t my problem. (Chaotic) 
2 
Ambition. | will climb to the top of the ladder. 
Everything | do is a stepping-stone to a 
Spireling’s position. (Neutral) 
3 
Decisiveness. It's important to make up 
your mind so you can act swiftly and without 
delay. (Neutral) 
4 
Honor. There’s room in the Clasp for both 
good and evil. Every day, | awake and choose 
to do what's right. (Good) 
5 
Family. The Clasp is family. Anything that’s 
good for the family is good for me. (Lawful) 
6 _ Self-interest. There are too many bleeding 
hearts in the Clasp these days. Doing the right 
thing means doing the thing that makes my 
life better. (Evil) 
CLasP MEMBER BONDS 
d6 Bond 
1 
fd do anything—anything—to protect 
my comrades. 
2 
llalways be grateful to the Spireling who 
took me in when | was an orphaned kid. 
3 
Iwas inspired to join the Clasp by the stories 
my parents told of being saved from the 
Chroma Conclave's attack on Emon. | can look 
past the organization's flaws. 
4 
Iwas nearly killed by the Myriad. If the Clasp 
is the enemy of those villains, then the Clasp 
is my friend. 
5 
I've got family back in the old town who are 
counting on me for money. They don’t know 
how I get it, but they don't need to know. 
6 
I joined the Clasp to become rich, powerful, 
and beloved. That's all there is to it. 
CHAPTER 4: CHARACTER OPTIONS 
CLasp MEMBER FLAWS 
dé Flaw 
1 
I'mhopeless at organizing my belongings, 
and I'm always losing things. 
2 
I get bored whenever a planis going too 
smoothly. A win is always more fun when it's 
by the skin of my teeth! 
3 _ I've seen Spirelings walk out among cheering 
crowds of thousands. Gods, | wish that were 
me. Ineed that to be me. 
4 
I'mrubbish with money, and never seem to 
leave town with a full purse. Keeps me coming 
back to the life, | suppose. 
5 _ I can't work with shoddy, makeshift thieves’ 
tools. need everything involving my work to 
be perfect. 
6 — Anysslight against me, no matter how small, is 
cause for revenge. 
LYCEUM SCHOLAR 
You most likely came up through money or hailed 
from a family with social prestige if you were able 
to afford tuition at the Alabaster Lyceum in Emon. 
But whatever your origin, your interests and pursuits 
brought you to the hallowed halls of Tal’Dorei’s 
highest place of learning, where you soaked in every 
lesson you could, hoping to better make your mark 
on the world. (Or at least you pretended to. Even at 
the Lyceum, every class has its slackers.) Eventually, 
though, the call to adventure pulled you from your 
and you now face the challenge of keeping 
your education even as the tides of destiny 
threaten to sweep you away. 
You might have come to the Lyceum to better 
research and understand the history and lore of 
Exandria and the lands you call home. Perhaps you 
sought a future here as a professor—or you might 
hope to do so still. You could also have been drawn 
by the promise of prosperity in politics, learning 
the inner workings of government and alliances to 
better position yourself as a future writer of history. 
Or perhaps your knack for the arcane inspired you to 
attend the Lyceum to refine your spelicraft, following 
in the footsteps of some of the finest wizards to ever 
practice the arts of magic. 
When you choose this background, you could be 
either an active student seeking adventures for your 
‘own research, or a graduated alumnus. With a little 
modification, you could easily be a professor as well. 
Skill Proficiencies: 
Your choice of two of the follow- 
ing: Arcana, History, or Persuasion 
Languages: Two of your choice 
Equipment: A set of fine clothes, a student uniform, 
‘a writing kit (small pouch with a quill, ink, folded 
parchment, and a penknife), and a belt pouch 
containing 10 gp

--- PAGE 185 ---
FEATURE: ACADEMIC REQUISITION 
You've cleared enough lessons—and have gained 
an ally or two among the staff—to enable access to 
certain private areas within the Lyceum and other 
allied universities. Whenever you're on Lyceum 
grounds or at another major academic 
institution, 
you can requisition any set of tools found in the fifth 
edition rules, Each set of tools is magically marked 
to sound an alarm if they are removed from the 
university's grounds. 
When you seek services such as spelleasting from 
an NPC at the Alabaster Lyceum or a related insti- 
tution, you can use those services at a 25 percent 
discount, at the GM's discretion. 
SUGGESTED CHARACTERISTICS 
The Alabaster Lyceum accepts students of all major 
trades, the fine arts, and the magical arts. Pupils 
talented and privileged enough to be accepted 
travel to Emon from all over Tal’Dorei, seeking to 
study among some of the greatest minds and most 
talented arcanists in the land, Ifyou came from a 
smaller city, a rural area, or Tal'Dorei’s relatively 
uncharted wilderness, studying at the Lyceum 
might have left you with a sense of culture shock, for 
good or for ill. 
Your bond is likely associated with your goals as 
a student or graduate. Your ideal probably involves 
your hopes in using the knowledge you've gained at 
the Lyceum, and your travels as an adventurer, to 
tailor the world to your liking. 
LYCEUM SCHOLAR PERSONALITY TRAITS 
8 Personality Trai 
1 
I can't believe I'm here! At the Alabaster 
Lyceum. Oh, gods, I've dreamed of this my 
whole life, and now I'm here! 
2 
Ican’tbelieve | squandered all the 
opportunities I had at school. 
| was supposed 
to be learning good stuff, but | wasted it all 
daydreaming about fighting monsters. 
3 
Every night at school, 'd knock back a couple 
of meads and read with my pals! Just a bunch 
of nerds having fun, and I loved it. 
4 
Everyone at school was such a stick in the 
mud. Dressing the same, listening to the same 
bards...ugh, it's sad. Just be yourself, 
5 
I'mhappiest when I've got my little party with 
me. At school, 
it was like we were a squad of 
heroes, slaying projects like monsters. 
6 _ I'dreally rather you didn’t bother me. Can't 
you see I'm studying here? 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 186 ---
d8__ 
Personality Trait 
7 
Idon't care. Ijust don't care about it all. 
The dates | had to memorize, the formulae | 
learned...Ijust want to run away and live! 
8 — I'mjust..tired. All the time. Oh, adventuring, 
sure, that's fine, as long as I can find time to. 
nap...goodnight. 
LYCEUM SCHOLAR IDEALS 
d6 
Ideal 
1 
Preparedness. | can't go out into the world 
unless | know what I'm up against. Study first, 
act later. (Neutral) 
2 
Stardom. Having a team is good and all, but 
you can't win a game of ball without the star 
charger, and you know that’s me. (Evil) 
3. 
Individuality. The world keeps us down by 
trying to put us all into little boxes. I'm tired 
of living in my box, and I don’t care what you 
think about it. (Chaotic) 
4 
Purpose. I study because there are things | 
need to know. I'll find my place in the world, 
and I'll make the world better. (Good) 
5 
Code of Conduct. The student code is there 
to benefit all students, you know. It’s the same 
for laws! (Lawful) 
6 
Recreation. All this studying crap wasn’t 
worth anything if you weren't partying when 
you were done. Meet me down at the tavern, 
okay? (Chaotic) 
LYCEUM SCHOLAR BONDS 
d6 
Bond 
1 
I came to the Lyceum with no one, but I fell in 
love with the city of Emon. I've finally found a 
place that feels like home! 
2 
Most of my professors drove me to frustration, 
but there's one who was kind and wise. | 
know they'll always have my back. 
3 
My family saved every copper piece to give 
me the opportunities | have now. | can't let 
them down. 
4 
Icameto the Lyceum with a childhood friend, 
but we've long been drifting apart. 
5 
Discovery is the only thing that matters to 
me. The topic doesn't matter. Books keep me 
company on my loneliest days. 
6 
The Lyceum is my life. I'd give up anything— 
everything—to protect it from harm. 
CHAPTER 4: CHARACTER OPTIONS 
LycEUM SCHOLAR FLAWS 
dé Flaw 
1 
The Lyceum taught me to never want to leave 
my room. The campus was so huge, and the 
crowds were so horrible. 
2 
You think you're so great just because you've 
got muscles, and endurance, and...shut up! 
Read a book sometime! 
3 
Huh? What? Sorry, | was thinking about a test 
need to retake when I get back to school. 
4 
I spent too much time studying. Now 
I don't 
have any friends. 
5 _ Ifyou don'tmatch my aesthetic, I'm not 
interested in you. We can work together, but 
‘we won't be friends. Got it? 
6 _ 'malways striving for perfection. I got top of 
my class, sure, but only with a 98 average. 
And that’s. Not. Perfect. 
REFORMED CULTIST 
the Betrayer Gods. During the Calamity, the Prime 
Deities allied themselves with the mortal races of 
Exandria, their original creations, to protect their 
flawed world and its multifarious forms of life. The 
Betrayers sought to wipe the slate clean. 
At the end of that devastating war, the Prime Dei- 
ties established a Divine Gate that would prevent all 
gods, good or evil, from directly affecting 
the world, 
but which 
would leave the gods’ mortal followers and 
supernal servants to enact their will. And so the cor- 
rupting whispers of the Betrayer Gods have ensnared 
the minds of power-hungry mortals for centuries, 
promising them a sliver of the gods’ great power in 
exchange for dedicating their souls to occult lore. 
You once belonged to such a cult of the Betrayer 
Gods. Perhaps this faith only briefly tempted your rebel- 
Jious, youthful spirit. 
Perhaps the cult gave you love and 
family when you had none, asking only your adher- 
ence to their prophet in exchange. Or maybe you were 
raised from birth to pay homage to gods of selfish 
cruelty—until one fateful day the veil was lifted, so that 
nothing stood between you and the horrifying truth. 
However it happened, you were freed from the 
shackles of this poisonous sect. Yet you know that 
this group does not forgive betrayers. As long as you 
live, you will be hunted—and if the members of the 
cult think you dead, their hunt will begin again the 
second they learn they're wrong. 
Skill Proficiencies: Deception and Religion 
Languages: One of your choice 
Equipment: Vestments and a holy symbol of your 
previous cult, a set of common clothes, a belt 
pouch containing 15 gp

--- PAGE 187 ---
186 
PEATURE: FELL TEACHINGS 
You were inundated with knowledge about one of 
the Betrayer Gods, and know by heart everything 
from their basic commandments to some of their 
most esoteric secrets. Choose one of the Betrayer 
Gods described in chapter 2. You have advantage on 
Intelligence (Religion) checks to know information 
about their faith, including obscure secrets unknown 
tomost worshipers. 
Additionally, you can work with your GM to create 
a secret that you learned during your time in the cult. 
This secret might be the seed of 
a conspiracy, a myth 
of 
a legendary hero whose true meaning has mutated 
over the years, or even the location of a fabled arti- 
fact of the gods. 
SUGGESTED CHARACTERISTICS 
The life of every former cultist is defined to some 
degree by the process of fleeing the past, and of try- 
ing to make a future away from the beliefs that once 
claimed them. Your bond is likely associated with 
those who gave you the insight and strength to flee 
your old ways. Your ideal might involve your desire 
to take down and destroy those who promote the 
evil you escaped, and perhaps finding new faith in a 
forgiving god. 
REFORMED CULTIST PERSONALITY TRAITS 
d8 
Personality Trait 
1 
Ineed a dagger close at hand at all times. 
Just in case they find me. 
2 _ {can't believe I'm out here fighting monsters. 
After everything I've been through, why can't | 
find a normal life? 
3 
Ineedaa stiff drink before I do anything 
stressful these days. | know it’s a problem. 
Just..let me have this. 
4 
Murder is okay when it's for a good cause! | 
didn’t tear my past out by the roots so | could 
let evil people cause more harm. 
5 
My>pastis filled with stories like you wouldn't 
believe. Ones thatill really make your skin 
crawl. Do you want to hear..? 
6 
Yeah, |'m crying. | do that. Get over yourself. 
I know you've told me your name twice 
already, but that's not good enough. How can 
Ibe sure you are who you say you are? 
8 — Mymind is always racing. | can't... just need 
to..you have to give me a second—or else | 
can't..organize 
my thoughts. 
REFORMED CULTIST IDEALS 
d6 
Ideal 
1 
Life. I've spent too long shackled to an evil 
master. No matter what happened before, | 
deserve my freedom now. (Chaotic) 
2 
Redemption. People can change, but 
redemption must be something they choose 
for themselves. If they do, it is my duty to help 
them along that path. (Good) 
3 
Power. When | abandoned the cult, it 
wasn't out of some misguided sense of 
righteousness. That pathetic organization was 
merely a shackle on my potential. (Evil) 
4 
Vengeance. The cult has poisoned my life. | 
will see all its followers suffer. (Any) 
5 
Hierarchy. The cult was vile, but its strength 
was in stability and organization. As long 
‘as good folk lack unity, evil will always 
triumph. (Lawful) 
6 
Reparations. As a cultist, ! harmed people 
whose names I'll never know. | feel obligated 
to repay my debt by aiding others. (Good) 
REFORMED CULTIST BONDS 
d6 
Bond 
1 
My cousin escaped the cult with me. I lost 
track of them when we fled, but | know they're 
alive. I can feel it 
2 _ |was saved from the cult by a priest of one of 
the Prime Deities. Ifnot for that sign of faith, | 
would surely be lost. 
3 
Iwas told by the person who saved me 
that a sage once said: “Life needs things to 
live.” | don’t know what that means, 
but I've 
dedicated my existence to finding out 
4 
One of my cultist parents had a change of 
heart when 
| was a teenager, and we fled 
together in the dark of night. | didn’t want to 
leave, but | understand now that their courage 
saved my life. 
5 
|was bested by a warrior when I fumbled a 
cult-ordered assassination. | don't know why 
that person took pity on me, but they gave me 
purpose when I was lost. 
6 
Now that I've saved myself, the only 
person important to me is my former cult 
leader—because I've sworn that they'll 
by my hand. 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTH 
REBORN

--- PAGE 188 ---
REFORMED CULTIST FLAWS 
d6 | Flaw 
1 
'mhaunted by what | saw in those ritual 
chambers. Every time I see blood, |..oh, gods, 
I can't bear to even think about it. 
2 
Iran from the cult long ago. But deep down, 
there's a part of me that still thinks they were 
right about certain things. 
3 
I can't help but feel a rush whenever! see a 
life snuffed out before me. Just one more 
just one more. 
4 — Organized religion terrifies me. Betrayer Gods 
or Prime Deities...it doesn't matter. The sight 
of the faithful freezes my blood cold. 
5 
Oh, always tell the truth. Always. I've never 
had to keep a secret from anyone, so of 
course I'll be open with you. 
6 
I don't trust easily. Ifyou grew up being lied 
to about every little thing? The fundamental 
nature of the world? You wouldn't, either. 
WHITESTONE RIFLE CORPS 
You trained with the elite forces charged with the 
defense and protection of the isolated city-state of 
Whitestone, 
with much of that training focused on 
how to care for, protect, and safeguard the firearms 
that are the weapons of the Whitestone Rifle Corps. 
You are also entrusted with a solemn duty—to never 
let the secrets of your liege-lord’s deadly creations 
fall into the wrong hands. 
You might have come to Whitestone to prove 
yourself worthy of wielding the secretive and 
highly coveted firearms created there, and to seek 
instruction from warriors who have mastered those 
weapons. Or you might have grown up in Whites- 
tone, perhaps even remembering the brutal days 
when Lord and Lady Briarwood ruled your home- 
land—a reign that began some thirty years ago and 
lasted for six harrowing years. 
Alternatively, you or your parents might have come 
to Whitestone as refugees fleeing the destruction 
of the Chroma Conclave's attack on Tal'Dorei. If 
so, your life in the city-state might have been a rela 
tively peaceful one, dwelling among the engineers, 
artisans, and merchants seeking 
to capitalize upon 
Whitestone’s reputation as an up-and-coming center 
of trade, culture, and invention. 
When you choose this background, decide whether 
you were a member of the Rifle Corps, the Pale 
Guard, or the Whitestone Hunters. The “Whitestone” 
section in chapter 3 has more information about the 
Pale Guard, as well as the armaments and militia in 
the city-state. See below for more information on the 
Whitestone Hunters. 
Skill Proficiencies: Your choice of two of the follow- 
ing: Athletics, Perception, or Survival 
Weapon Proficiencies: 
Firearms 
Languages: One of your choice 
Equipment: Your choice of 
a musket ora pistol, a set 
‘of common clothes, and a pouch containing 10 gp 
FEATURE: LEGACY OF SECRECY 
You have been entrusted with the use and care of a 
weapon both powerful and terrifying. The rifle you 
wield might transform the face of warfare and life in 
Tal'Dorei. It is a weapon that haunts the mind of its 
creator, Percival de Rolo, manifesting as a pain that 
lives always behind his kind eyes. 
‘You were granted a musket ora pistol (as 
described in the fifth edition core rules) by your com- 
mander in the Whitestone Rifle Corps. This weapon 
is a symbol of your status, and when you display 
it, other folk around you—particularly adventur- 
ers, mercenaries, guards, engineers, and weapons 
enthusiasts—treat you differently, You might be seen 
as a noble defender 
of the people, a selfish hoarder 
of power, or anything in between, at the GM’s 
discretion. 
FEATURE: RIFLE CORPS. 
RELATIONSHIP 
You are—or were—a member of an elite and trusted 
band of Whitestone's staunchest defenders. Work 
with your GM to determine your current relation- 
ship with the Rifle Corps. If your campaign starts in 
Whitestone, you might be an active member of that 
unit. Otherwise, you can use the Rifle Corps Rela- 
tionships table for suggestions. 
RIFLE CORPS RELATIONSHIPS 
d6 
Current Relationship 
1 
[retired honorably from the Rifle Corps— 
and now it's time for me to pursue my own 
adventures. 
2 
I'mon an important mission to protect 
Whitestone or guard one of our allies. 
3 
Whitestone is in trouble, and | was sent away 
toseekhelp. 
4 
I don't think firearms technology should be 
kept secret, so | escaped from the Rifle Corps 
with my weapon and am on the run. 
5 
Iwas ona mission with my company when | 
got separated from them. Now I need to find 
my way back home. 
6 
My weapon was stolen. | built a new one, but 
I can't return home until I've tracked down the 
thief and recovered the original. (Whitestone 
Hunter variant only) 
187

--- PAGE 189 ---
SUGGESTED CHARACTERISTICS 
‘Those who join the Whitestone Rifle Corps become 
members of an elite and trusted band known as the 
city-state’s staunchest defenders. But this means 
working with your GM to determine why you're not 
at home protecting Whitestone. Perhaps you took on 
mission to guard someone on behalf 
of the de Rolo 
family, or you might have been separated from your 
company while on an assignment. Bither way, you 
find yourself embroiled now in a series of new adven- 
tures as you try to make your way back home. 
Your bond is likely associated with your comrades- 
in-arms or with Whitestone itself. Your ideal could 
be tied to justice or protection, but could also be a 
secretive, selfish perversion of those virtues. 
RIFLE CORPS PERSONALITY TRAITS 
d8 
Personality Trait 
1 
I want to make a good impression at all times. 
That means keeping my clothes and gear 
clean and in top condition. 
2 
I don't like being the center of attention. I'd 
rather let someone else do the talking while | 
watch their back. 
3 
I feel safe only if'm carrying my trusty rifle. 
And my dagger. And my concealed pistol. Oh, 
and of course my... 
4 — I don't trust people with my secrets easily, 
0 it feels like a big deal when someone else 
shares a secret with me. 
dB 
Personality Trait 
I like coming up with solutions to problems 
using my esoteric knowledge of natural 
Philosophy. 
Everyone around me takes things so 
seriously. Sometimes | just want to let loose 
and have fun! 
Knowing things that other people don’t know 
makes me feel special and important. 
I'm most at home in woods and mountains, 
where everything feels at once familiar, 
always growing and changing. 
RIFLE CORPS IDEALS 
a6 
Ideal 
Responsibility. | have a duty to protect the 
People of Whitestone and to uphold the trust 
placed in me by the de Rolos. (Lawful) 
Militarization. Everyone should have access 
to the most powerful weapons available, so 
they can defend themselves effectively. (Evil) 
Cooperation. Any problem can be solved 
as long as people are willing to work 
together. (Good) 
‘Camaraderie. It's important to have people 
you can trust to help out in a fight—and to 
uncork a bottle together afterward. (Any) 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 190 ---
Ideal 
5 
Context. There are no universal rights or 
wrongs. Every choice depends on the details 
of the situation. (Chaotic) 
6 — Secrecy. Information is valuable, but it can 
also be dangerous. I'l keep my mouth shut 
and gather as much intel as I can. (Neutral) 
RIFLE CORPS BONDS 
6 Bond 
1 
Inever knew what to do with myself until I 
joined the Rifle Corps. Now 
| have a purpose 
‘and comrades to give me direction. 
2 
One of my fellow Rifle Corps soldiers saved 
my life—and then I saved theirs, That kind of 
bond lasts forever. 
3 
Whitestone is the best city in all of Tal’Dore 
Nowhere else has been blessed by the 
Dawnfather and has a clock that tracks the 
movement of the stars! 
4 — My quick thinking saved a noble from 
assassination, and she showed me great 
kindness in return. | daren’t say it, but I'm 
more loyal to her than | am to the de Rolos. 
5 
My weapon is my life. | clean it, repair it, and 
care for 
it—and it serves me loyally in return. 
6 
The people of Whitestone cared for my family 
when we had nothing. | promise to repay their 
compassion with my service. 
RIFLE CORPS FLAWS 
d6 
Flaw 
1 
Who cares about keeping this gun safe? 
“Don't let it fall into the wrong hands!" Ha! It's 
only a matter of time before someone slips up 
and these weapons are everywhere. 
2 
I think being part of the Rifle Corps is so cool. 
love telling people about my position so | 
can impress them. 
3 
Myweaponwas stolen. | built a new one, but 
can't return home until I've tracked down the 
thief and recovered the original. 
4 
I'mtired of protecting spoiled people who 
don't know how to protect themselves. 
5 
I shoot first and ask questions later. 
6 
The first and only time | killed someone, it 
changed my life. still dream about it, and I'll 
never be the carefree person 
| was before. 
VARIANT: 
WHITESTONE HUNTER 
As elite as they are, the members of the Whitestone 
Rifle Corps do not represent the apex of firearms 
skill in Whitestone. A clandestine group of elite 
CHAPTER 
CHARACTER OPTIONS 
eee. - 
» 
* 
oe 
soldiers and survivalists is drawn secretly from the 
Rifle Corps ranks. Called the Whitestone Hunters, 
these soldiers are special operatives of the de Rolo 
family, and loyally serve as spies, bodyguards, and 
even assassins when the job requires it. Though few 
officially know of them, rumors of the Whitestone 
Hunters’ existence swirl constantly throughout the 
city-state, often in response to their activities after 
having been loaned out to protect Whitestone’s allies. 
You are one of these Whitestone Hunters, even 
{just a trainee (if you're starting your campaign at 
low levels). You have the ear of the lord and lady of 
Whitestone, though you must exercise this pri 
graciously lest you lose 
SUPERNATURAL 
BLESSING: FATE-TOUCHED 
Most lives and souls find their ways easily along the 
paths of fate and destiny, oblivious and eager to be a 
part of the history meant for them, Some souls, how- 
ever, carry themselves with mysterious influence, the 
golden threads of their fate subtly guiding history as 
they pass. Events both magnificent and catastrophic 
often follow such souls, which take the form of great 
rulers and terrible tyrants, powerful mages, reli- 
gious leaders, and legendary heroes. These are the 
fate-touched. 
Few fate-touched ever become aware of their 
prominent nature. Without the confirmation of the 
gods themselves, few can know for certain that they 
bear this blessing. And this is as it should be, for 
people of renown and power grow easily jealous of 
those whose gifts outstrip their own. The surviving 
chronicles of the Age of Arcanum are filled with tales 
of magical hierarchs who enslaved those they took 
for fate-touched—or worse, attempted to extract the 
essence of fate from them by the most horrid means. 
Being touched by fate can be a blessing or a curse. It 
is most often those who bear the blessings of fortune 
who are remembered by history, while those cursed 
by fate are forgotten. Most cultures of Exandria have 
legends of those marked by ill fate simply by being 
born under the full light of Ruidus, the vermilion 
moon around which countless fell legends swirl, 
Player characters and NPCs gain this blessing by 
having the GM grant it to them, gaining the Fortune's 
Grace feature as a result. A character might receive 
the blessing as a gift from the gods, or as a tempo- 
rary and surprising phenomenon when the campaign 
shifts into a story arc focused on that character. 
An NPC ally might bear this blessing to help them 
survive as the characters protect them from a terrible 
threat. A previously benign NPC might even become 
a power-hungry villain as they test the limits of their 
fate-touched gift.

--- PAGE 191 ---
190 
FORTUNE’S GRACE 
Your fate-touched essence can cause events to shift 
in your favor. When you make an attack roll, an abi 
ity check, or a saving throw, you can choose to reroll 
the d20. You must reroll the die before the outcome 
of the initial roll is determined. 
Alternatively, when a creature you can see makes 
an attack against you or makes a saving throw 
against one of your spells or features, you can force 
that creature to reroll the attack roll or saving throw. 
If the roll that triggers the reroll is made with 
advantage or disadvantage, both d20s are rerolled. 
Once you use this feature, you can't use it again until 
you finish a long rest. 
NEW FEATS 
The following feats are appropriate for a 
Tal'Dorei campaign. 
CRUEL 
The challenges and struggles you've faced through- 
‘out your life have led you to delight in inflicting pain 
and anguish upon others. You gain a number of 
cruelty dice equal to your proficiency bonus. Your 
cruelty dice are d6s. You can roll only one cruelty die 
per turn, and a cruelty die is spent when you roll it. 
You can roll a cruelty die under any of the follow- 
ing circumstances, with the indicated result: 
+ When you deal damage to a creature, spend one 
cruelty die to deal extra damage to the creature 
equal to the roll. 
+ When you score a critical hit, spend one cruelty die 
to gain temporary hit points equal to the roll. 
When you make a Charisma (Intimidation) 
check, spend one cruelty die and add the roll to 
your check. 
You regain all spent cruelty dice when you finish a 
long rest. 
FLASH RECALL 
Prerequisite: Spellcasting feature from a class that 
prepares spells 
You've developed the ability to instantly recall an 
unprepared spell in moments of sudden necessity. 
Asa bonus action, you prepare a spell of Ist level 
or higher from your spellbook (if you're a wizard) or 
from your class spell list (if you're not a wizard). This 
spell must be of 
a level for which you have spell slots, 
and it replaces another spell of an equal or higher 
level that you had previously prepared. 
‘Once you use this feat to recall a spell, you can't do 
So again until you complete a short or long rest. 
LOANS 
RULES TIP: PREPARED SPELLS 
The Flash Recall feat requires you to be a spell- 
caster who prepares spells. This includes classes 
such as clerics, druids, and paladins, who prepare 
spells each day from their class list, and wizards, 
who prepare spells from a spellbook. Classes such 
as bards and sorcerers, who inherently know their 
spells rather than preparing them, can't benefit 
from this feat. 
LAAT 
MysTIC CONFLUX 
You possess an intuitive understanding of the way 
magic ebbs and flows within enchanted items. Such 
items attune easily to you, and you are able to sound 
out their secrets. You gain the following benefits: 
+ You can attune to up to four magic items at once. 
+ You can cast the identify spell without expending a 
spell slot or material components. You must finish 
a long rest before you can do so again. 
REMARKABLE RECOVERY 
Your body has the ability to recover quickly from 
terrible injuries, and is unusually receptive to healing 
magic. You gain the following benefits: 
Increase your Constitution score by 1, toa max- 
imum of 20. 
When you are successfully stabilized while dying, 
you regain hit points equal to your Constitution 
modifier 
(minimum of 1). 
Whenever you regain hit points asa result of 
a 
spell, potion, or class feature (but not this feat), you 
regain additional hit points equal to your Constitu- 
tion modifier (minimum of 1). 
SPELLDRIVER 
Prerequisites: Character level 11 or higher; Spellcast- 
ing or Pact Magic feature 
Through intense focus, training, and dedication, 
you've harnessed the techniques of rapid spellcast- 
ing. When you use your bonus action to cast a spell 
of Ist level or higher, you can also use your action to 
cast another spell of Ist level or higher. However, if 
you cast two or more spells in a single turn, only one 
of them can be 3rd level or higher. 
RULES TIP: CASTING MULTIPLE SPELLS 
Normally, when you cast a spell as a bonus action, 
you can't use your action to also cast a spell that 
tum unless that spell is a cantrip. The Spelidriver 
feat removes that restriction, but the focus neces- 
sary to channel multiple spells in the same round 
still imits the overall power of those spells. 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 192 ---
Ngee 
vy 
THROWN ARMS MASTE 
VITAL SACRIFICE 
You've honed your ability to lob weaponry 
You've learned secrets of hemocraft that grant you 
including we 
t for 
ranged com- 
esoteric power at the 
price of your own life force. As 
You gain the following benefits: 
a bonus action, you can choose to take 1d6 necrotic 
Increase your Strength or Dexterity score by 1, to 
damage to gain a blood boon. Your blood boon lasts 
maximum of 20. 
for 1 hour or until expended. 
Simple and martial melee weapons 
without the 
You can expend this blood boon to gain one 
of the 
thrown property have the thrown property for you. 
following benefits: 
One-handed weapons have 
a normal range of 20 
+ When you make an attack roll, you roll 146 and 
feet and along range of 60 feet, while two-handed 
add it to the total 
‘weapons have a normal range of 15 feet and a long 
+ When 
you hit with an attack 
or spell, you deal an 
range of 30 feet. 
additional 2d6 necrotic damage. 
Weapons that already have the thrown property 
= When you calise 
a creaturstc widke ns Gteteeem 
increase 
their short range by 20 feet and their long 
ity, 
or Conatitutigaveavings trom tolkataa 
range by 40 feet for you 
and reduce their save by the amount rolled. 
When you miss with a thrown weapon attack using 
alight weapon, the weapon returns to your grasp 
like a boomerang 
at the end of your turn, unless 
something prevents it from returning. You can 
catch and stow as many weapons 
as you threw 
n this way. 
The damage you take to gain a blood boon can't be 
reduced in any wa 
CHAPTER 4: CHARACTER OPTIONS

--- PAGE 194 ---
CHAPTER 5 
_ GAME MASTER’ 
S$ TOOLKIT _ 
—$———————— 
Game Masters can make use of many different tools 
to run enjoyable games. A GM is the starting point of 
the storytelling process, coming up with narratively 
compelling adventure frameworks that they and the 
players then turn into a campaign. To do so, a GM 
works up locations and scenarios that their players 
will have fun with. They stock adventures with 
loot and may 
ems to reward daring characters, 
villains and monsters to defend those valuable tre: 
‘sures, and NPCs of all kinds who can give clues, help 
allies, or oppose the characters in their goals. 
This chapter contains storytelling advice for GMs 
running campaigns in Tal'Dorei. It also contains a 
number 
of new magic items, including the legendary 
Vestiges of Divergence, plus optional rules that GMs 
can use 
to fine-tune the tone of a Tal'Dorei cam- 
paign. (Chapter 
6 of this book presents monsters and 
NPCs unique to the world of Exandria, which can 
likewise help give a campaign a distinctly Critical 
Role feeling) 
CREATING ADVENTURES 
Before reading this section, you should familiarize 
yourself with “Running 
a Tal Dorei Campaign’ 
in chapter 1, which provides information about 
Tal'Dorei’s lore and conflicts that are for the 
Game 
Master's eyes only. Chapter 3 of this book also con- 
ins dozens of specific story hooks, many of which 
tie into the big-picture secrets introduced in chapter 
1. Some hooks are simple, giving 
you just enough 
to inspire 
your next game session. Some are more 
complex, and can cascade into an entire campaign's 
worth of story. 
You'll notice that these story hooks pr. 
to spark your imagination, but in a way that 
leaves you to fill out the rest of the story frameworl 
in your own way. The goal of this book is to provide 
the building blocks with which you can create your 
‘own Tal'Dorei, 
and these open-ended plot seeds will 
help you set up adventures that feel right at home 
in the world of Critical Rofe—whether you're a long- 
time fan of the show or are brand-new to Tal'Dorei. 
If you're an experienced GM, you might already 
have your own approach 
to creating adventures from 
story hooks. But especially if you're a beginning GM, 
this section presents a straightforward approach you 
can try out for expanding hooks into full adventures. 
And even as an experienced GM, if you ever feel 
stuck while planning an adventure, it can help to 
CHAPTER 5: GAME MASTER’S TOOLKIT 
create a “fillin-the-blanks” outline of your narrative. 
Start by 
a physical page or a digital one) 
ito three sec- 
tions labeled “Beginning,” “Middle,” and “End.” Then 
think about what happens in each of those parts of 
your adventure as a means of opening up your cre- 
ative process 
BEGINNING AN ADVENTURE 
The beginning of most adventures comes when the 
characters receive a quest or are plunged headfirst 
into an unexpected scenario, In the Beginning 
ection of your 
GM journal, write one sentence 
about how you want the characters to learn of the 
adventure. For example: “A member of the Tal’Dorei 
Council posts an urgent notice about a dangerous 
creature in every tavern in Emon, promising a 1,000 
gp reward.” Then write down little notes about other 
things you want in the beginning scene. Where is 
this opening scene set? What other NPCs are there? 
Are there environmental notes or clues you want to 
‘communicate to the players? 
CREATING CONFLICT 
IN THE MIDDLE 
The middle of an adventure is filled with conflict, 
whether episodic events during travel, a dungeon 
exploration filled with deadly traps and territorial 
monsters, or intense diplomatic negotiations. In the 
Middle section, write down notes about what sort 
of conflict you want your adventure to have. Most 
story hooks in this book contain a clear antagonist 
or threat—so start by writing down that antagonist 
and then brainstorming secondary threats that will 
challenge the characters on their way to facing their 
main foe. In addition to the monsters in chapter 6 of 
this book, the fifth edition rules are filled with useful 
monsters that are perfectly at home in Exandria. 
END WITH A REWARD 
The end of an adventure is where the characters gain 
their reward and return to safety. In the Ending sec- 
tion of your journal, write down ideas for treasure or 
other rewards that you want to give the characters. 
You can make use of the new treasures featured in 
this book, as well as the varied rewards described in 
the fifth edition rules. 
Remember that treasure doesn't have to be gold 
or magic items, and it doesn't have to be found in 
ividing a page of your GM journal (whether 
193

--- PAGE 195 ---
194 
a dungeon, When the characters return to town 
carrying the head of the monster they've slain, their 
quest-giver might grant them an audience with the 
Tal'Dorei Council, give them special use of the Tra- 
verse Junction or some other magical marvel of the 
Alabaster Lyceum, or bestow any number 
of other 
immaterial rewards. 
GOING WITH THE FLOW 
Don't worry if your plans go awry—they will. No 
RPG session ever goes totally as planned. The most 
important skill for any GM is the ability to impro- 
vise, because you can never predict everything your 
players will do. Make your plans loose and variable, 
and be willing to have fun and change course. Your 
players are surprised by every challenge you throw 
at them—so give yourself a chance for the same 
experience! It can be fun to be surprised, especially 
when you're the GM who supposedly holds all the 
important story cards. 
TAL’DOREI TREASURES 
This section presents magic items for use in your 
Tal'Dorei campaign, including specific items used 
by the Ashari people of Exandria, and the legendary 
Vestiges of Divergence. 
MAGIC ITEMS 
Tal'Dorei is a land awash with magic. Numerous 
magical organizations, both stately and shadowy, 
create enchanted items to aid their members in 
mysterious quests. Shops in major cities, including 
Gilmore's Glorious Goods in Emon, openly sell 
magic items to anyone with the gold to pay their 
extravagant (some might say exorbitant) fees. 
GMs can use the magic items in this section— 
some of which have appeared in Critical Role before; 
some of which are all new—as treasure to reward 
the characters during their adventures. Unless oth- 
erwise stated, these items abide by the magi 
rules laid down in the fifth edition core rule: 
Boots OF HASTE 
Wondrous item, very rare (requires attunement) 
While you wear these boots, you can click your heels 
together to cast the haste spell on yourself as a bonus 
action. You don't suffer from lethargy when the spell 
ends when cast using these boots. Once this prop- 
erty is used, it can't be used again until next dawn. 
BOOTS OF THE VIGILANT 
Wondrous item, uncommon 
While you wear these boots, you can sense impend- 
ing danger. After you roll initiative, you can choose 
toroll a d8 and add it to your initiative roll. Once 
this property is used, it can't be used again until the 
next dawn. 
CATACLYSM BOLTS 
Ammunition, very rare 
‘These steel crossbow bolts were first created by the 
Jaggenstrike Clan during the Scattered War, and the 
secret to crafting them remains well guarded by the 
Houses of Kraghammer. Cataclysm bolts are usually 
kept in sets of ten, though anyone who holds even 
‘one can feel it thrumming with magical power. When 
you hit with an attack using a cataclysm bolt, the 
attack deals normal damage. Then roll a d6 on the 
following table to determine its additional effect. 
CATACLYSM BOLT EFFECTS 
dé 
Effect 
1-2 
The bolt explodes in a blast of fire, dealing 
3d8 fire damage to the target and each 
creature within 5 feet of it. 
3-4 The bolt freezes the air around the target 
into jagged ice. The target and each 
creature within 5 feet of it must succeed 
ona DC 17 Dexterity saving throw or take 
1d10 cold damage and be restrained until 
the end of your next turn, 
5 
The bolt releases a pulse of necrotic energy. 
‘The target takes 2d6 necrotic damage and 
must succeed on a DC 16 Strength saving 
throw or be stunned until the end of your 
next turn. 
6 
The bolt shatters to unleash a burst of 
shrapnel. Make six additional ranged 
attacks against the target, each of which 
has a+7 attack bonus and deals 146 
piercing damage on a hit. 
Once the bolt hits, the enchantment ends and it 
becomes a normal piece of ammunition. 
COAT OF THE CREST 
Wondrous item, rare (requires attunement) 
This exquisite brocade coat is cut in a long, high- 
collared style popular among nobles of the Clovis 
Concord—a nation on the west coast of Wildemount 
whose stylish fashion is often mimicked in Tal’ Dorei. 
Its shimmering lining hints at its magical properties. 
You gain a +1 bonus to AC while wearing this coat, 
which can be worn over light armor. 
Additionally, the coat has 3 charges and regains 
1d3 expended charges daily at dawn. When you are 
the target of an attack while wearing this coat, you 
can spend 1 charge as a reaction to gain resistance 
to one type of damage from the triggering attack. 
This resistance is effective against the triggering 
attack and lasts until the start of your next turn. 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 196 ---
CORECUT DAGGER 
Dagger, very rare (requires attunement) 
‘This dark metal blade bends in a wicked, hooked 
curve. You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage 
rolls made with this magic weapon. When you hit 
with an attack using this weapon, you can spend 1 
Hit Die to deal an extra 346 necrotic d: 
unconscious. Instead, you are incapacitated and your 
speed becomes 0, but you can speak and communi- 
cate. You make death saving throws as normal, but if 
you roll a 1 on the d20, you swoon with a loud gasp 
and die instantly. 
ECHO STONE 
Curse. This weapon is cursed, a fact that is 
revealed only when an identify spell is cast on the 
‘weapon or you attune to it. Attuning to the dagger 
curses you until you are targeted by the remove 
curse spell or similar magic; disposing of the dagger 
fails to end the curse. While cursed, whenever you 
receive magical healing, you must spend 1 Hit Die to 
regain any hit points. If you spend all your Hit Dice at 
any point, you die. 
DAGGER OF DENIAL 
Weapon (dagger), rare (requires attunement) 
This silver stiletto blade bears intricate grooves that 
spiral from its tip to its ivory hilt and handle. You 
gain a 42 bonus to attack and damage rolls made 
with this magic weapon. 
As an action, you can place the point of the blade 
into any keyhole and seal it shut. A keyhole sealed in 
this way can’t be unlocked until this dagger is placed 
into that keyhole once more (though a sealed door 
or container can still be broken, bypassing the lock). 
Sealing a keyhole unseals any keyholes previously 
sealed with this weapon. 
DOUBLET OF DRAMATIC DEMISE 
Wondrous item, common 
This striking satin jacket allows you to make the 
most of your dying moments. When you drop to 0 
hit points while wearing this doublet, you do not fall 
DAGGER OF 
DENIAL 
CHAPTER 
GAME MASTER’S 
TOOLKIT 
us item, 
This dull-blue river stone is soft to the touch, and 
makes remarkably little sound if dropped. When an 
echo stone is squeezed as an action, it glows faintly 
for 1 minute. The stone records all sound made 
within 15 feet of it while glowing, then repeats that 
recorded sound at an equal volume once every 5 
minutes. This cycle of repetition continues until the 
stone is squeezed again as an action, which silences 
it. Squeezing the stone twice in quick succession 
as an action causes it to play the sounds it has most 
recently recorded, rather than recording new sounds. 
GRAZ’TCHAR, THE DECADENT END 
Weapon (@freatsword), legendary (requires 
attunement) 
This blade appears to be a beautiful cruciform sword 
of shining silver, inlaid with sparkling rubies. You 
gain a +3 bonus to attack and damage rolls made 
with this magic weapon, which has the following 
properties. 
Corrosive Submission. When you hit a creature 
that has an Intelligence score of 4 or higher with an 
attack using this sword, the target takes an extra 346 
acid damage and must succeed on a DC 17 Charisma 
saving throw or be charmed by you for 1 hour. If you 
attack the creature again 
while it is charmed in this 
way, the extra acid damage increases to 10d6 and 
the charmed condition ends. If the target succeeds 
GRAZ TCHAR, 
THE DECADENT fND

--- PAGE 197 ---
196 
on its saving throw or the charm ends for it, it can't 
be charmed again in this way for 24 hours. 
Hidden Nature. The acid damage dealt by this 
greatsword appears to be radiant damage to all 
who perceive it. A true seeing spell or similar magic 
reveals that the sword is actually a rusted, pitted 
blade dripping with acid. 
Sentience. Graztchar is a sentient neutral evil 
weapon with an Intelligence of 14, a Wisdom of 12, 
and a Charisma of 18. It has hearing and darkvision. 
‘out to a range of 120 feet. 
‘The sword can speak, read, and understand 
Common, and can communicate with its wielder 
telepathically. Anyone who holds it hears the wise 
voice of a sorrowful king, beckoning the user to seize 
their destiny. A creature that succeeds on a DC 26 
Wisdom (Insight) check while listening to the blade’s 
voice hears a sliver of malice that suggests the truth: 
the voice is a corrupting trick of the Demon Prince of 
Indulgence. 
Personality. Graz'tchar slowly attempts to sway 
its wielder to sow chaos in Exandria, telling lies and 
spreading malign truths about great leaders, and 
claiming that the members of the Tal'Dorei Council 
are corrupt and must be overthrown. The voice of 
this blade is actually the Demon Prince of Indul- 
gence, speaking from his Abyssal prison. 
If the sword's attuned wielder disobeys the urges 
of the weapon for an extended period of time, 
Graz'tchar 
can attempt to control the wielder, who 
must succeed on a DC 17 Charisma saving throw or 
become charmed by the sword for 24 hours. While 
the wielder is charmed in this way, the sword can 
compel them to take an action of the sword’s choice 
once per hour, though the wielder believes this 
action is taken of their own free will. If the chosen 
action leads to the harm of someone the wielder con- 
siders a trusted friend or ally, the charmed condition 
immediately ends. On a successful saving throw or if 
the charmed condition ends for the wielder, they are 
immune to this property of the sword for 24 hours. 
INESCAPABLE LASH 
Weapon (whip), rare (requires attunement) 
This braided cord is dull bronze in color, ends in a 
splayed set of three barbs, and gleams like metal 
under any light. You gain a +1 bonus to attack and 
damage rolls made with this magic weapon, which 
has a reach of 20 feet. When you hit a creature or 
object using this whip, you can attempt to grapple the 
target as a bonus action. 
While you have a creature grappled using this whip, 
you can use your action to either pull the creature 
up to 20 feet toward you, or cause the creature to be 
restrained until you let go of the whip. A creature 
restrained in this way can escape by making a suc- 
cessful Strength (Athletics) or Dexterity (Acrobatics) 
check as an action. The DC of this check equals 8+ 
your proficiency bonus + your Strength modifier. 
MAGICIAN’S JUDGE 
Weapon (greatsword), rare 
Anexecutioner's blade from the Age of Arcanum, 
this magic greatsword is one of many similar weap- 
‘ons once used to execute magic-wielding criminals. 
‘Though most commonly found in the lands now 
known as Wildemount and Issylra, a few such blades 
have found their way to Tal'Dorei. 
Ifyou hit a creature with an attack using this 
weapon, you can cast the dispel magic spell from the 
sword against the target as part of the attack. Alter- 
natively, you can use an action to cast dispel magic 
from the sword against a target of your choice. If you 
need to make a check with your spellcasting ability 
modifier as part of casting the spell, you make thi 
check with a +3 modifier or your own spelicasting 
ability modifier, whichever is higher. 
Once you cast dispel magic using this weapon, you 
can't do so again until the next dawn, 
MIRROR OF INFINITE 
TRANSPONDENCE 
Wondrous item, very rare 
‘These silver hand mirrors always come in pairs. 
When activated as an action, a mirror establishes a 
visual link with its 
paired mirror for 10 minutes, with 
the two mirrors acting as opposite sides of the same 
open window. The mirrors create this connection 
even if both are on different planes. 
When single mirror of infinite transpondence is 
found, the GM decides where its paired mirror is and 
who possesses it. A random possessor and location 
can be determined by rolling on the table below. 
Named bearers are described in chapter 2. 
MIRROR LOCATIONS 
d8 
Location 
Possessor 
1 
Emon 
Seeker Odessa Tal'Dorei 
2 
Whitestone 
None; the mirroris in an. 
‘empty dungeon 
3 
Kymal 
Syiker “The Miillion- 
aire” Uttolot 
4 
Westruun 
Realmseer Eskil Ryndarien 
5 
Syngorn 
Questra, the 
Voice of Memory 
6 
The Elemental 
Khedive Xundi, Lord of 
Plane of Water 
Silver Silt 
7 
The Plane 
‘Remnant chosen 
of Shadow 
(see page 251) 
8 
Anuntraceable 
The Wonderworker 
location 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 198 ---
‘Once the connection between the two mirrors has 
been activated three times from either end, it can't be 
activated again until the next dawn. 
RAVEN’S SLUMBER 
Wondrous item, very rare 
This black crystal pendant is a magical gateway to 
a small pocket dimension. You can use the pendant 
as an improvised weapon to make a melee or ranged 
weapon attack against a Large or smaller creature. 
On a hit, the target must succeed on a DC 10 Wi: 
dom saving throw or be trapped within the crystal. 
A creature that wants to be trapped can intentionally 
fail this saving throw. 
Only one creature at a time can be held in a raven's 
slumber. That creature is aware of the passage of 
time and can see the world outside of this talisman 
as if through a window. You can release a held crea- 
ture to an unoccupied space within 5 feet of you as a 
bonus action. 
Ifa companion creature granted to you by a class 
feature, or a beast that you've tamed as a compan- 
ion, is reduced to 0 hit points while within 100 feet 
of you, it is immediately drawn into the pendant and 
stabilized. If the pendant already holds a creature, 
this effect fails. 
ROD OF MERCURIAL FORM 
Wondrous item, uncommon 
This humble steel rod is engraved with tiny symbols 
representing different weapons, as well as the mono- 
gram “T.D.” A creature holding this rod can speak 
the name of any simple or martial weapon aloud as 
a bonus action, causing the rod to transform into an 
MIRROR OF |NFINITE 
TRANSPONDENCE 
SAME MASTER’S TOOLKIT 
CHAPTER 
ordinary weapon of that type. When in the form of 
a 
ranged weapon, this rod magically creates its own 
ammunition, which disappears after a ranged attack 
hits or misses. 
STORMRIDER BOOTS 
Wondrous item, rare 
These dark leather boots look to be of common 
make, but a subtle pattern of swirling storm clouds 
upon their soles suggests the potency of their 
enchantment. You can activate these boots as part of 
your movement, gaining the following benefits until 
the end of your turn: 
You have a flying speed of 90 feet. 
+ Opportunity attacks against you are made with 
disadvantage. 
Whenever 
you move within 5 feet of 
a hostile 
creature, 
it must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity 
saving throw or take 3d8 lightning damage. A 
creature can't be damaged in this way more than 
once per turn. 
Once this property is used, it can't be used again 
until the next dawn. 
SUMMER’S DANCE 
Weapon (scimitar), rare (requires attunement) 
This beautiful golden blade appears to bend and 
flex 
like a reed with your movements. You gain a +1 
bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this 
magic weapon. 
Additionally, the scimitar has 3 charges and 
regains 1 expended charge daily at dawn. While 
wielding this scimitar, you can expend 1 charge as a 
bonus action to cast the misty step spell. 
TINKERTOP BOLTBLASTER 1000 
Weapon (hand crossbow), very rare (requires 
attunement) 
This strange contraption of gears, wires, and lac- 
quered wood has a handle with a metal grip and 
crank, Its stock bears a flamboyant maker's mark 
that reads: “Made in Hupperdook,” a city in Wilde- 
mount. You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage 
rolls made with this magic weapon. 
When you roll a 20 on an attack roll made with 
this weapon, you can immediately make another 
attack with this weapon after resolving the critical 
hit, When you roll a 1 on an attack roll made with 
this weapon, you must succeed on a DC 14 Dexterity 
saving throw or take 1d6 piercing damage as some 
of its gears and wires spring loose. 
197

--- PAGE 199 ---
ae 
198 
TOOLS OF THE ASHARI 
‘The Ashari people have long used their connection 
and attunement to elemental power to create unique 
magic items, helping them in their quest to further 
understand and control the elements. These items 
are kept secret by their creators and are rarely given 
to people not of the Ashari. As such, they can be 
acquired only as a gift from an Ashari for render- 
ing their people a great service, from the body of a 
dead Ashari explorer, or for an exorbitant price from 
someone who has acquired the item through dubi- 
‘ous means. 
At the GM's discretion, the unique nature of these 
items might mean that a character not of the Ashari 
and unfamiliar with elemental magic can’t automat- 
ically attune to them. Such characters can attune to 
‘one of the tools of the Ashari with 24 hours worth 
of special 
training from an Ashari familiar with the 
item's use. 
EARTHBOARD 
Wondrous item, rare (requires attunement) 
An earthboard is a slab of granite about three inches 
thick, nine feet long, and two feet wide, with smooth, 
tapered ends. However, its mundane appearance 
belies its unique elemental power, which reduces its 
weight to 40 pounds while 
a creature is attuned to it. 
The Earth Ashari of Terrah can often be seen with 
these stone boards upon their backs as they trek into 
the crags of the Cliffkeep Mountains. 
While standing on an earthboard, you gain the 
following benefits: 
Your speed increases to 60 feet as the board skims 
across solid ground (but not liquid surfaces). 
Ifyou ramp off a surface of solid earth, you can 
long jump up to 60 feet. When you end this 
jump, 
‘you can choose to slam into the ground, creating a 
shockwave. Each creature standing on the ground 
within 20 feet of you must succeed on a DC 14 
Strength saving throw or fall prone. 
You have a burrowing speed of 20 feet that allows 
you to tunnel through earth or solid rock, leaving a 
5.footdiameter tunnel in your wake. As an action, 
you can increase this burrowing speed to 60 feet 
until the start of your next turn 
The earthboard always moves with you until you 
decide to dismount it (no action required). 
These benefits last until you end your turn not 
standing on the earthboard. 
FLAMEFRIEND LANTERN 
Wondrous item, rare (requires attunement) 
This wroughtiron lantern holds a small fire ele- 
mental spirit. To attune to this item, you must also 
succeed on a DC 10 Charisma check to bond with 
the spirit inside the lantern. 
Light and Flame. While attuned to the lantern, 
you can verbally ask the elemental to glow (no action 
required), causing the lantern to cast bright ligh 
a radius of your choice up to 60 feet and dim light 
for the same distance beyond that. You can also cast 
the produce flame cantrip from the lantern at will. 
Wisdom is your spelicasting 
ability for this 
spell. 
Elemental Essence. The fire elemental spirit 
in the lantern can grant you a small fragment of its 
power. As an action, you gain one of the following 
benefits of your choice for 1 hour: 
You have resistance to fire damage. 
+ Whenever 
a creature hits you with a melee attack, 
that creature takes fire damage equal to your proft- 
ciency bonus. 
+ You can cast the burning hands spell (spell save 
DC 15) from the lantern at 3rd level. Once you cast 
the spell, you can't do so again until the next time 
you use this property of the lantern. 
Once the elemental has shared its power with you 
in this way, it can’t do so again until the next dawn. 
Willfisl Attunement. Your attunement to the 
lantern lasts until you choose to end it, or until you 
anger the elemental (by dousing the lantern in water, 
attacking another nonhostile elemental being, and so 
forth). You can attempt to attune to the lantern again 
and repeat the check to bond with the elemental 
during a short or long rest, but you make this check 
with disadvantage until you have made amends to 
the spirit, as the GM determine: 
“ 
e, 
He was given to me 
us warm while your father and I trekked through 
the Dreemoth Ravine and the ruins of Draconia 
twenty years ago. Such vicious blizzards, the li 
of which are only topped by the Neverfields—or 
Eiseleross, so 've heard. You should have seen 
us, marching through the snow, dozens of ASh@rt 
cloakedin flame, melting trenches in the rime as 
pulled around my 
they advanced, and me, my fit 
jnose, blinking throughthe Mow, holding tight to 
this little one. 
When your father returned to Pyrah, I feared I'd 
never see our little flamefriend again, but... Here) 
hold him, hear his little elemental heart fluttering. 
Think of-your father when you feel that warmth, 
protecting you, watching over 
you. No matter where 
in the world you are, whether you're near Pyrah or 
far, he'll be a bit of family, and a bit of home 
Tats Naj, 10 H1s 
OF PyRan 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 200 ---
OCEANIC 
WEAPON 
Weapon (any ranged or thrown), rare (requires 
attunement) 
This elegant weapon is adorned with engravings 
depicting leaping dolphins and drifting jellyfish. You 
gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made 
with this magic weapon, and you ignore the normal 
penalties on ranged weapon attacks while using this 
weapon underwater. While holding the weapon in 
front of you with both hands, you have a swimming 
speed of 30 feet 
Additionally, while you hold the weapon, you can 
use an action to cast the water breathing spell. Once 
this property is used, it can't be used again until the 
next dawn, 
SKYSAIL 
Wondrous item, rare (requires attunement) 
These batlike wings were first used by the Air 
Ashari to soar through the sky. They are constructed 
of either leather and bone, or cloth and wood, and 
are set onto a sturdy wooden pole that helps their 
user remain stable during flight. 
While these wings are open and you are riding 
the skysail, you can glide through the air. You have a 
CHAPTER 5: GAME MASTER’S TOOLKIT 
flying speed of 60 feet, but you must descend at least 
10 feet by the end of each of your turns and you can't 
gain altitude. 
Additionally, while in contact with the skysail, you 
can use an action to cast the fly spell on yourself, 
with a duration of 1 minute and requiring no concen- 
tration. The spell ends if you lose physical contact 
with the skysail. Once this property is used, it can't 
be used again 
until the next dawn, or unless the sky- 
sail is immersed in powerful magic of elemental air. 
(This includes magic such as that found at the top of 
the Summit Peaks near the rift of air in Zephrah, or 
on the Elemental Plane of Air). 
When the skysaif is not in use, its wings can be 
retracted, and its pole can be used as a quarterstaff. 
are'you seriously asking met 6% 
sure, I'l try, 
but you really gotta 
feel it, you know? The sensation of the wind 
whipping past you as you shoot up into the sky, 
then—whoa!—your stomach just drops out from 
you, and it’s like youleft your heart behind as 
start 
to fall. It’s like nothing's holding onto you, 
| then—whoosh!—the 
wind catches 
you, and 
si 
bagk into the sky

--- PAGE 201 ---
200 
VESTIGES OF DIVERGENCE 
During the wars of the Calamity, destruction rained 
across the world. Fragmented chronicles of this time 
recount battles between gods that leveled mountains 
and sank whole civilizations beneath the waves. 
Chosen heroes rose up to accept weapons, armor, 
and other magic 
items blessed by their patron gods 
to staunch the inexorable tide of death. Powerful 
archmages wove the overflowing arcane powers of 
the war into legendary magic items that could both 
thwart death and mete it out in equal measure. 
These relics of the Age of Arcanum armed mortals 
with god-like powers, and escalated the Calamity to 
a fever pitch. Soon after, the war climaxed in a wave 
of total destruction that left much of Exandria in 
ruins. Thousands of years of history were reduced 
to ash—and in that ash were buried many of these 
selfsame relics. Some of those not lost were passed 
down through bloodlines for generations, becoming 
potent symbols of authority and rulership. Others 
were sealed away by those who feared their power. 
These mighty echoes of the war that nearly shattered 
Exandria and the divine banishment that followed 
are known as the Vestiges of Divergence. 
The Vestiges of Divergence are unique even among 
legendary magic items, for each one touches the defi- 
ant soul of its wielder and grows in power alongside 
them. The base state of a Vestige of Divergence is 
its dormant state, which the item returns to if sealed 
away or otherwise kept from being attuned by a wor- 
thy 
individual for a long period of time. A dormant 
state still 
imbues a modicum of power to an attuned 
wielder. But with time, perseverance, and personal 
growth, the Vestige of Divergence can regain access 
to some of its lost power in its awakened state. Even- 
tually, if its bearer overcomes personal hardship and 
transforms their own soul, a Vestige of Divergence 
reaches its full potential in its exalted state. This 
shows the true power 
of the item, as 
it was when first 
utilized in the Calamity against gods armed for war. 
The point at which a character finds a Vestige of 
Divergence, as well as the point at which that item 
starts to unlock its full power, is entirely in the hands 
of the Game Master—though it is a topic that players 
and GMs can discuss and mutually scheme over 
between game sessions. The acquisition of such 
an item—or the discovery ofits true identity—has 
the potential to be a scene of momentous narrative 
weight. Those who bear a Vestige of Divergence are 
respected and feared by those who understand these 
items’ true power. But such an honor can also paint 
‘a target on the bearer’s back, for many covet such 
power, and would do anything to obtain it. 
Many of the Vestiges of Divergence detailed in t 
section can currently be found in Tal’Dorei, while 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 202 ---
others are scattered elsewhere throughout Exandria. 
Some of these relics remain lost to time, waiting for 
someone to find them among the dust and rubble. 
Others might be in use by powerful heroes ready to 
pass the item's power onto a worthy su 
or who. 
fights for the proper cause. Still others might be in 
the hands of twisted souls using them to terrorize 
the weak and defenseless. The Vestiges of Diver- 
gence are both magic items and narrative devices, 
and it’s the GM's choice as to where any one of them 
might be found or earned. 
ADVANCEMENT OF A VESTIGE 
OF DIVERGENCE 
The conditions by which a Vestige of Divergence pro- 
gresses to its next level of power can vary, and often 
revolve around the nature of the specific item and its 
magic. An attuned bearer of 
a Vestige of Divergence 
must often symbolically progress to a new state of 
self-discovery or accomplishment. Alternatively, a 
Vestige of Divergence might bequeath new power to 
a character in a state of extreme personal duress or 
desperation. 
Such triggering moments are entirely up to the 
Game Master to identify 
and unveil, and as such, will 
likely manifest in unexpected ways. Players should 
allow the organic narrative moments that they feel 
might exemplify such an advancement to occur, and 
GMs should tailor the triggering moment accordingly 
to be important, impactful, and memorable. 
Examples of the kinds of moments that can trigger 
the advancement of a Vestige of Divergence include 
the following: 
+ Acharacter finally surmounts one of their greatest 
fears, bravely overcoming a traumatic event to save 
a party member. 
A character is mercilessly defeated by a long-hated 
foe, and in the face of such defeat, they feel a deep, 
dormant strength grow from within. 
+ Acharacter loses a close ally in battle, and the 
anguish and fury stirs the power within their Ves- 
tige of Divergence. 
Acharacter discovers a facet of their destiny that 
calls their actions toward a dangerous cause—and 
against their own fear, they accept their fate and 
responsibility. 
A character claims vengeance against a rival who 
has tormented them for ages. 
A character known for restraint gives in to the 
amoral violence that the relic they bear was 
dedicated to. 
If you want to keep the Vestiges “balanced,” 
in addition to being narratively significant, then 
characters may find a dormant Vestige before 11th 
level—perhaps unaware that it's even a Vestige! 
‘That dormant Vestige is awakened somewhere 
between 11th and 17th level, and is exalted at any 
CHAPTER 5: GAME MASTER’S TOOLKIT 
time after that. Even using these level ranges as a 
rule of thumb, you shouldn't rely too heavily on those 
mechanical benchmarks. A Vestige of Divergence’s 
advancement is triggered by character development, 
not 
simply by leveling up. 
TO SUIT THE WIELDER 
The Vestiges of Divergence were all created by 
humanoids or gifted by the gods to their humanoid 
champions. As such, all of these legendary magic 
items are sized to suit Medium creatures. However, 
the mighty magic that thrums within each item 
allows it to grow or shrink 
in size to suit the creature 
attuned to it 
The game statistics of a Vestige of Divergence 
don’t change when it resizes unless the item is a 
weapon. When a Large or larger creature makes 
an attack with such a weapon, the weapon deals 
one additional damage die for each size category 
its wielder is larger than Medium. For example, if 
Fenthras is used by a Large fey, attacks made using 
the longbow deal 2d8 piercing damage. If Pyremaul 
is used by a Huge giant, attacks made using the maul 
deal 446 bludgeoning damage. 
creatiire was safe, no niditter how small and insig- 
nificant, no matter how mighty and powerful. For 
the battles between gods, would-be gods, and their 
divine monstrosities took place on such a scale that 
mountains were sundered and whole cities per 
ished, How could any mortal hop@to-sway theyfalé 
of their own world? 
go" 
The answer—perhaps ironically, given how the 
“arcane arts and a hunger for godhood brought 
about the Calamity—lay in magic of both arcane 
and divine provenance. Not paltry charms or 
trinkets, 
but the kind of magic that suffuses 
the ley 
lines of 
this world and plucks at the very fabric of 
reality. 
True, a mortal 
army may be naught but a 
Aloud of gnats to the gods, but a singular hero: 
villain—wielding an artifact imbued tithemagic 
beyond reckoning...such a champion could bring 
their strength and cunwingllO'bear amidst the dev 
jastation of the god-war.e 
Thus, the gods and even the greatest mortal 
‘mages wrought relics 
of a might never seen before) 
nor, think, since. Moreover, the full potential of 
these items could only used by those with souls 
worthy of wielding such legendary power 
—MONOGRAPH ON THE VESTIGES OF DIVERGENCE 
FROM THE COBALT RESERVE ARCHIVES CIRCA. 
547 P.D., ATTRIB. HIGH CURATOR JORUM IRRI 
“

--- PAGE 203 ---
AGONY 
Weapon (flail), legendary (requires attunement by a 
creature of non-good alignment) 
Utilized in countless tortures and slow executions, 
the hooked chains of this brutal weapon constantly 
show dried blood and rot. Legend says that Agony 
was wielded in the Calamity by the gnoll scion ofa 
flesh-eating Demon Lord. 
DoRMANT 
While Agonyis ina dormant state, you gain a +2 
bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this 
magic weapon. Whenever you damage a creature 
with Agony, that creature is marked for 10 minutes 
or until you damage a different creature. When you 
hit a creature marked in this way with this weapon, 
the target takes an extra 1d6 piercing damage. 
AWAKENED 
When Agony reaches an awakened state, you gain 
the following benefits: 
+ The extra damage when you hit a marked creature 
increases to 1d8. 
‘A marked creature has disadvantage on Constitu- 
tion checks and Constitution saving throws 
+ When you reduce a creature to 0 hit points with 
an attack using Agony, you can immediately make 
an additional melee attack with this weapon as a 
bonus action. 
EXALTED 
When Agony reaches an exalted state, you gain the 
following benefits: 
+ The weapon's bonus to attack and damage rolls 
increases to +3. 
+ The extra damage when you hit a marked creature 
increases to 248. 
202 
When you score a critical hit with this weapon, the 
target must succeed on a DC 17 Wisdom saving 
throw or become frightened of you for 1 minute. 
Ona success, the target is immune to this effect 
for 24 hours. 
ARMOR OF THE VALIANT SOUL 
Armor (scale), legendary (requires attunement) 
This 
antique armor forged from jade and black- 
dragon scales was once worn by J'mon Sa Ord of 
Ank’Harel, 
Dormant 
While the Armor of the Valiant Soul is in a dormant 
state, you gain a +1 bonus to AC while wearing it 
You can also cast the command spell (save DC 
14) while attuned to this armor. Once this property 
is used, it can’t be used again until you finish a 
long rest. 
AWAKENED: 
When the Armor of the Valiant Soul reaches an 
awakened state, you gain 
the following benefits: 
+ The AC bonus of the armor increases to +2. 
+ You have resistance to acid damage while wearing 
this armor. 
You are immune to the frightened condition while 
wearing this armor. 
The spell save DC for the armor's command spell 
increases to 16, and the spell can target up to three 
creatures. 
EXALTED 
When the Armor of the Valiant Soul reaches an 
exalted state, you gain the following benefits: 
+ The AC bonus of the armor increases to +3. 
i 
OF THE 
JALIANT SOUL 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBOR

--- PAGE 204 ---
You are immune to acid damage while wearing 
this armor, 
All friendly creatures within 15 feet of you are 
immune to the frightened condition as long as you 
are conscious. 
+ The spell save DC of the armor's command spell 
increases to 18, and the spell can target up to five 
creatures, 
CABAL’S RUIN 
Wondrous item, legendary (requires attunement) 
This cloak is made of heavy dark cloth trimmed with 
golden patterns, and occasionally shimmers with 
sparks of arcane energy. It was once worn by the 
famed gunslinger Percival Fredrickstein von Musel 
Klos 
de Rolo III of 
Whitestone. 
ows} 
DORMANT 
While Cabal’s Ruin is in a dormant state, the cloak 
has 4 charges and it regains 1d4 expended charges 
daily at dawn. When you hit with an attack, you can 
expend any number of charges from the cloak, with 
the attack dealing an extra 1d6 lightning damage 
per charge expended. If your attack strikes multi 
ple targets, you choose one target that takes this 
extra damage. 
When you 
are targeted by an enemy’s 
spell, you 
can use your reaction to absorb a portion of the 
spell’s energy into the cloak. The spell affects you 
normally, but the cloak regains a number of charges 
equal to the level of the spell. This property can't be 
used again until you finish a short or long rest 
CABAL'S RUIN 
GAME MASTER’s TOOLKIT 
CHAPTER 
‘AWAKENED 
When Cabal's Ruin reaches an awakened state, you 
gain the following benefits: 
You have advantage on saving throws against 
spells and other magical effects while wearing 
this cloak. 
The cloak has 6 charges and it regains 1d4 +2 
expended charges daily at dawn. 
When you use the cloak to absorb a spell, you gain 
resistance to one type of damage dealt by the spell 
(your choice). This resistance then lasts until the 
end of your next turn. 
EXALTED 
When Cabal's Ruin reaches an exalted state, you 
gain the following benefit: 
+ The cloak has 10 charges and it regains 1d6 +4 
expended charges daily at dawn, 
CIRCLET OF BARBED VISION 
Wondrous item, legendary (requires attunement by 
a 
creature of non-good alignment) 
When you don this circlet of gnarled onyx, black 
barbs dig into your head, imparting power to you 
as the circlet twists your appearance to amuse the 
Spider Queen. The current resting place of the 
Circlet of Barbed Vision is unknown, but rumor has 
it that a spectral assassin known as the Inevitable 
End seeks this relic. 
DORMANT 
While the Circlet of Barbed Vision is in a dormant 
state, you have advantage on initiative rolls while 
‘you wear it, but your Charisma score decreases by 
2. Your Charisma score returns to normal if you 
remove the circlet, but you take 4d6 psychic damage 
when you do so. 
CIRCLET OF 
BARBED UisiON 
203

--- PAGE 205 ---
Additionally, when you make an attack roll, you 
can use your reaction to gain a+5 bonus to the 
roll. You make this choice after you see the roll 
but before the GM says whether the attack hits or 
misses. You can't use this property again until you 
finish a short or long rest. 
AWAKENED 
When the Circlet of Barbed Vision reaches an awak- 
ened state, you gain the following benefits: 
+ You have resistance to poison damage, and you are 
immune to the poisoned condition. 
+ Your ability to gain a bonus to an attack roll can be 
used twice between rests. 
EXALTED 
When the Circlet of Barbed Vision reaches an 
exalted state, you gain the following benefits: 
+ You are immune to poison damage. 
+ You have truesight out to a range of 
60 feet. 
+ Your ability to gain a bonus to an attack roll can be 
used three times between rests. 
CONDEMNER 
Weapon (heavy crossbow), legendary (requires 
attunement) 
This shadow-touched hand crossbow once served 
as the weapon of choice for the legendary assassin 
Todora. Though few know this, Condemner is now 
in the possession of an equally infamous assassin 
named Ixrattu Khar (see her statistics in chapter 6). 
DoRMANT 
When Condemner is in a dormant state, you gain a 
+1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this 
‘magic weapon. When you hit with an attack using 
this weapon, the target takes an extra 1d4 poi- 
son damage. 
Additionally, if you hit with an attack using this 
weapon, you can activate one of the following effects 
instead of dealing damage: 
+ You cast fog cloud centered on the target's space. 
+ You cast silence centered on the target's space. 
When an effect is used, it can't be used again unt 
you finish a short or long rest. 
AWAKENED 
When Condemner reaches an awakened state, you 
gain the following benefits: 
+ The weapon's bonus to attack and damage rolls 
increases to +2. 
The extra poison damage dealt by the weapon 
increases 
to 146. 
You gain an additional effect that can be triggered 
in place of dealing damage when you hit with an 
attack: You cast hold person on the target (save DC 
15). This effect can’t be used again until you finish 
a short or long rest. 
EXALTED 
When Condemner reaches an exalted state, you gain 
the following benefits: 
+ The weapon's bonus to attack and damage rolls 
increases to +3. 
‘The extra poison damage dealt by the weapon 
increases to 148. 
‘The save DC for the weapon's hold person spell 
increases to 17. 
+ You gain an additional effect that can be triggered 
in place of damage when you hit with an attac! 
You cast the blight spell on the target (save DC 17). 
This effect can’t be used again until you finish a 
short or long rest. 
DEATHWALKER’S WARD 
Armor (studded leather), legendary (requires 
attunement) 
This beautiful black leather armor is covered in intri- 
cate scrollwork, and has a mantle bearing the black 
feathers of the Matron of Ravens. Legends say that i 
has been worn by a number of that deity's champi- 
ons over the centuries—most recently, Vax'ildan of 
Vox Machina. 
DORMANT 
When the Deathwalker’s Ward is in a dormant state, 
you gain a #1 bonus to AC and you have advantage on 
death saving throws while wearing the armor. 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 206 ---
AWAKENED 
When the Deathwatker's Ward reaches an awakened 
state, you gain the following benefits: 
+ The AC bonus of the armor increases to +2 
+ While wearing the armor, you have resistance to 
one of the following damage types of your choice: 
acid, cold, fire, lightning, necrotic, or poison. You 
can change the damage type when you finish a 
short rest 
EXALTED 
When the Deathwalker's Ward reaches an exalted 
state, you gain the following benefit 
+ The AC bonus of the armor increases to +3. 
+ Asabonus action, you grow large black raven 
wings that grant you a fi 
last for 1 hour. Once this property is used, it can't 
be used again until you finish a long rest. 
NTHRAS 
Weapon (longbow), legendary (requires attunement) 
This gorgeous longbow made of everbark from the 
Fey Realm flexes and shifts like a 
living entity. It is 
said to have been wielded by the legendary ranger 
Vex’ahlia against great evils. 
DoRMANT 
While Fenthras is in a dormant state, you gain a +1 
bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this 
‘magic weapon. 
When you make an attack with Fenthras, you can 
declare it an oracle shot, allowing you to experience 
the area around the arrow using your normal senses 
GAME MASTER'S 
TOOLKIT 
CHAPTER 
DEATHWALKER’S U/ARD 
for 10 minutes. Once this property is used, it can't be 
used again until you finish a short or long rest. 
Additionally, when a creature is killed by an attack 
using this weapon, a six-foottall tree rapidly grows 
out of the corpse over the next minute. The tree is, 
rooted in the ground to make the body difficult to 
move, but does not permanently damage the corpse 
or its organs. 
AWAKENED 
When Fenthras reaches an awakened state, you gain 
the following benefits: 
+ The weapon's bonus to attack and damage rolls 
increases to +2. Additionally, when you hit with an 
attack using this weapon, the target takes an extra 
1d4 lightning damage. 
When you hit with an attack using this weapon, 
you can declare it a bramble shot. The attack deals 
an extra 3d8 piercing damage, and the target must 
succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving throw or 
become restrained by steely brambles that burst 
from the arrow. A restrained target can repeat the 
saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending 
the effect on itself ona success. Once this property 
is used, it can’t be used again until you finish a 
short or long rest. 
EXALTED 
When Fenthras reaches an exalted state, you gain 
the following benefits: 
+ The weapon's bonus to attack and damage rolls 
increases to +3. 
The extra lightning damage dealt by attacks using 
the bow increases 
to 146. 
You can declare a bramble shot twice between 
rests, and the saving throw DC increases to 17.

--- PAGE 207 ---
HONOR’S LAST STAND 
Armor (shield), legendary (requires attunement by a 
creature of non-evil alignment) 
This massive silvered shield bears the crest of the 
Platinum Dragon and never tarnishes. Its metal is 
always warm to the touch. 
DORMANT 
While Honor’s Last Stand is in a dormant state, you 
gaina +1 bonus to AC while holding the shield. This 
bonus is in addition to the shield’s normal bonus to 
AC. You also can’t be knocked prone while bearing 
this shield, 
AWAKENED 
When Honor’s Last Stand reaches an awakened 
state, you gain the following benefits: 
+ The shield’s bonus to AC increases to +2. 
+ Ifyou successfully shove a creature while holding 
this shield, that creature takes 2d6 force damage. 
+ When a creature within 5 feet of you misses you 
with an attack, you can attempt to shove that crea- 
ture asa reaction. 
EXALTED 
When Honor’s Last Stand reaches an exalted state, 
you gain the following benefit: 
+ The shield’s bonus to AC increases to +3. 
+ When you successfully shove a creature while 
holding this shield, you can move it up to 15 feet 
away from you. 
+ As a bonus action, you can protect an ally within 
5 feet of you, granting that ally a +3 bonus to AC 
until the start of your next turn or until they are no 
longer within 5 feet of you. 
fonor’s 
LAST STAND 
ARIA RADIO 
RULES TIP: 
PUSHING AND SHOVING 
Certain character options, such as the Path of the 
Juggernaut barbarian in chapter 4, grant the ability 
to push other creatures around the battlefield with 
your attacks. But this is just one way to push a crea- 
ture. If you want to move a creature without hurting 
it, there’s a special shove attack available to all 
characters. The Vestige of Divergence Honor’s Last 
Stand encourages you to shove your foes away 
while you valiantly stand your ground. 
‘Shoving a Creature. Using the Attack action, 
you can make a special melee attack to shove a 
creature, either to knock it prone or push it away 
from you. If you're able to make multiple attacks 
with the Attack action, this attack replaces one of 
them. The target must be no more than one size 
larger than you and must be within your reach. 
Instead of making an attack roll, you make a 
‘Strength (Athletics) check contested by the target's 
Strength (Athletics) or Dexterity (Acrobatics) check 
(the target chooses the ability 
to use). If you win the 
contest, you either knock the target prone or push 
it 5 feet away from you. 
LAA, 
KISS OF THE CHANGEBRINGER 
Wondrous item, legendary (requires attunement) 
A beautiful, glittering emerald is set within this 
sil 
chain, humming with power and possibility. It is 
said that this amulet was stolen from the neck of the 
Changebringer herself 
by the Lord of the Hells, and 
locked within the vaults of Bazzoxan in Wildemount. 
It was later claimed there by a group of Aurora 
Watch soldiers during an expedition into that grim 
fortress’s abandoned temples. 
DoRMANT 
While the Kiss of the Changebringer is in a dormant 
state, you have a +1 bonus to saving throws and are 
immune to the grappled condition while wearing it. 
‘/AWAKENED 
When the Kiss of the Changebringer reaches an 
awakened state, you gain the following benefits: 
+ The bonus to saving throws increases to +2. 
+ You are immune to the restrained condition. 
+ You can use an action to cast the blink spell on 
yourself. This property of the amulet can't be used 
again until you finish a long rest. 
EXALTED 
When the Kiss of the Changebringer reaches an 
exalted state, you gain the following benefits: 
+ The bonus to saving throws increases to +3. 
+ You are immune to the paralyzed and petrified 
conditions. 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 208 ---
When you make an attack roll, ability check, or sav- 
ing throw, you can roll an additional d20. You can 
choose to do so after you make the attack roll, abil- 
ity check, or 
saving throw, but before the outcome 
is determined. You choose which of the d20s to use 
for your roll. This property of the amulet can't be 
used again until you finish a short or long rest. 
MYTHCARVE! 
Weapon (longsword), legendary (requires attunement 
bya bard) 
This 
incredible silvered blade once belonged to the 
legendary White Duke, a founding member of the 
Golden Grin, and many other master bards before 
him, It resonates with nearby musical tones. In the 
modern era, it is best known as the personal weapon 
of famed bard Scanlan Shorthalt. 
DoRMANT 
While Mythcarver is in a dormant state, you gain a 
+1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this 
magic weapon. This longsword’s enchantments and 
ight construction also grant it the Finesse property, 
which allows you to use either your Strength or Dex- 
terity modifier for the attack and damage rolls when 
making an attack with this weapon. 
Additionally, when you target an ally with your 
Bardic Inspiration feature, 
you gain advantage on 
attacks with this weapon until the end of your turn. 
{SS OF THE 
(HANGEBRINGER 
TOOLKIT 
CHAPTER 5: GAME MASTER 
AWAKENED 
When Mythcarver reaches an awakened state, you 
gain the following benefits: 
+ The weapon's bonus to attack and damage rolls 
increases to +2. Additionally, when you hit with an 
attack using this weapon, the target takes an extra 
1d6 force damage. 
‘When you use your Bardic Inspiration to affect an 
‘enemy while wielding this sword, that enemy has 
disadvantage on their next saving throw. 
EXALTED 
When Mythcarver reaches an exalted state, you gain 
the following benefits: 
+ The weapon's bonus to attack and damage rolls 
increases to +3. 
As an action, you let the spirit of the sword over- 
take your body and guide your strikes. You make 4 
melee attacks with the sword, then gain 1 level of 
exhaustion. Once this property is used, it can't be 
used again until you finish a long rest. 
Though the name of the champion who 
wielded Mythcarver has been lost, legend 
says that the songs 
she sung in her beautiful 
contralto made her friends rejoice and her 
eiiemies weep with fear, Mythcarver was 
forged 
in the 
flying 
ci 
the wielder herself; who'wove song and spell 
into the blade with each fold of the metal. 
—HIGH CURATOR JORUM IRRELIOS, 
207

--- PAGE 209 ---
PLATE OF THE DAWNMARTYR 
Armor (plate), legendary (requires attunement) 
Beautiful silver scrollwork and priceless cut rubies 
adorn this set of brass-and-gold armor. Legend holds 
that it was worn by Duana, High Priest of the Dawn- 
father, when she was martyred in the Battle of Ghor 
Dranas in the final days of the Calamity. In more 
recent times, it was worn by Pike Trickfoot, a legend- 
ary cleric of the Everlight, while fighting against the 
Chroma Conclave and the Whispered One. 
DORMANT 
While the Plate of the Dawnmartyr is in a dormant 
state, you gain a+1 bonus to AC while wearing it. 
When a creature within 5 feet of you hits you with 
‘a melee attack, you can use your reaction to rebuke 
that creature, dealing it 1d6 fire damage. 
AWAKENED 
When the Plate of the Dawnmartyr reach 
ened state, you gain the following benefits: 
+ The armor's bonus to AC increases to +2. 
+ You are immune to the frightened condition. 
+ You have resistance to fire damage. 
+ The fire damage you deal when you rebuke an 
attacker increases to 2d6. 
s an awak- 
EXALTED 
When the Plate of the Dawnmartyr reaches an 
exalted state, you gain the following benefits: 
+ The armor’s bonus to AC increases to +3. 
+ When you rebuke an attacker, you can choose to 
deal either fire damage or radiant damag 
+ When you are reduced to 0 hit points, you can 
choose to have a blast of healing flame surround 
you. You regain 1 hit point and are lifted to your 
feet. Each enemy within 10 feet of you takes 246 
fire damage or radiant damage (your choice). This 
property of the armor can't be used again until you 
finish a long rest. 
PYREMAUL 
Weapon (maul), legendary (requires attunement) 
Forged from deep red iron, this massive hammer 
is set with a brilliant fire opal that shimmers with 
eternal flame. It is rumored to be currently wielded 
by Grand Legate Phaestor, the fire giant ruler of Vul- 
kanon, somewhere beneath the Cliffkeep Mountains. 
DoRMANT 
While Pyremaul is in a dormant state, you gain a +1 
bonus to attack rolls made with this magic weapon. 
When you hit with an attack using this weapon, the 
target takes an extra 1d6 fire damage. 
Additionally, you can choose to have this weapon 
shed bright light in a 30-foot radius and dim light for 
an additional 30 feet (no action required). 
AWAKENED 
When Pyremaul reaches an awakened state, you 
gain the following benefits: 
+ The weapon's bonus to attack rolls increases to +2. 
+ The extra fire damage dealt by the weapon 
increases to 2d6. 
Asan action, you can slam Pyremaul into the 
ground to cast the burning hands spell at 2nd level 
(Gave DC 15). You can't use this property again 
until you finish a short or long rest. 
Whenever 
you score a critical hit with this weapon, 
the target must succeed on a DC 15 Strength sav- 
ing throw or be knocked prone. 
PYREMAUL 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 210 ---
EXALTED 
When Pyremaul reaches an exalted state, you gain 
the following benefits: 
‘The weapon's bonus to attack rolls increases to +3. 
‘The extra fire damage dealt by the weapon 
increases to 346. 
When you cast burning hands with the 
weapon, you do so at 3rd level and the save DC 
increases to 17. 
When you score a critical hit with this weapon, 
the saving throw to avoid being knocked prone 
increases to 17. You also roll an extra 3d6 fire 
damage when determining the extra damage for 
the critical hit 
When you kill a creature with an attack using 
this weapon, you can take 10d10 fire damage and 
immolate the creature's corpse. This damage 
can't be reduced in any way, and you di 
damage reduces you to 0 hit points. The immolated 
creature and everything it is wearing and carrying, 
except magic items, are reduced to a pile of ash. 
The creature can be restored to life only by means 
ofa true resurrection or a wish spell. You can't 
use this property of the maul again until 7 days 
have passed. 
Records kept by the Birthheart temp 
in Vassetheim say that the Spire of 
Conflux was created when the Wild- 
‘mother breathed on a young beech 
tree. The sapling transformed intto.a | 
curving staff'and the Wildmother’s 
<9} 
breath crystallized igto the glowing 
gewel that hovers in itsenter. The 
bearer 
of this mythic staff can com 
+ mand the elements as if they were one 
with the enduring, yet ever-changing, 
- landscape of Exandria itself... 
HIGH CURATOR JORUM 
IRRELIOS, 
CIRCA 547 PD. 
CHAPTER 
ME MASTER’S TOOLKIT 
SPIRE OF CONFLUX 
Staff, legendary (requires attunement by a 
spelicaster) 
A powerful relic passed down from generation to 
generation of Ashari leaders, the Spire of Conflux 
was lost over three centuries ago when Joran the 
Sea-Speaker, a respected leader of the Water Ashari, 
was devoured by a demon of the Abyss. It was redis- 
covered by the legendary druid Keyleth of Zephrah, 
Voice of the Tempest. However, rumors swirl that 
she is seeking another hero to wield it—one who 
can travel the land and do good in small ways as 
she once did 
Dormant 
While the Spire of Conflux is in a dormant state, the 
staff has 8 charges and regains 1d4 + 2 expended 
charges daily at dawn. While holding the staff, you 
an expend 1 or more of its charges to cast one of 
the following spells from it, using your spell save DC: 
burning hands (1 charge) or fireball (3 charges). 
Additionally, while holding this staff, you have a 
+1 bonus to spell attack rolls and your spell save DC 
increases by 1 
AWAKENED 
When the Spire of Conflux reaches an awakened 
state, you gain the following benefit 
+ The staff has 12 charges, and it regains 1d6 +2 
expended charges daily at dawn. 
You can also spend charges to cast the following 
spells from the staff: conjure elemental (5 charges) 
or ice storm (4 charges). 
When you cast a spell that deals bludgeoning, cold, 
fire, lightning, or thunder damage and you roll a 1 
on a damage die, you can reroll the die and must 
use 
the new roll. 
EXALTED 
When the Spire of Conflux reaches an exalted state, 
you gain the following benefits: 
+ The staff has 20 charges, and it regains 1d6 + 4 
expended charges daily at dawn. 
You can also spend charges to cast the following 
spells from the staff: chain lightning (6 charges) or 
fire storm (7 charges) 
+ The bonus to spell attack rolls and your spell save 
DC increases to +2. 
Spine OF 
ConFLUX 
209

--- PAGE 211 ---
STAR RAZOR 
Weapon (longsword), legendary (requii 
attunement) 
The thick, grooved blade of this shining silver long- 
sword is lined with etched runes that sparkle blue in 
the light. Star Razor—known also as Dwueth'var— 
was thought to have been destroyed or lost after the 
Calamity, but new rumors suggest that it might be 
wielded by a half-orc somewhere in Wildemount 
DoRMANT 
While Star Razorisin a dormant state, you can 
hold this magic longsword and use a bonus action 
to speak the command word Galas-var, causing the 
sword to emit a pale blue glow that sheds bright light 
in.a 20-foot radius and dim light for an additional 20 
feet. This glow lasts until you use a bonus action to 
speak the command word again, or until you drop or 
sheathe the sword. 
While this longsword is glowing, you gain a +1 
bonus to attack and damage rolls made with 
the weapon, and you have resistance to radi: 
ant damage. 
You can cast the faerie fire spell from the weapon 
as an action, requiring no components (save DC 
13). Once a spell has been cast using Star Razor, 
that spell can’t be cast from the sword until the 
next dawn. 
May weapons created by mortals during the Ag 
AWAKENED 
When Star Razor reaches an awakened state, you 
gain the following benefits: 
+ The weapon's bonus to attack and damage rolls 
increases to +2. 
+ When acreature within 5 feet of you hits you with 
a melee attack, you can use your reaction to create 
a burst of radiance from the sword, dealing 1d8 
radiant damage to the attacker, 
+ You can cast the see invisibility spell from the 
sword as an action, and the save DC for spells cast 
using the sword increases to 15. 
EXALTED 
When Star Razor reaches an exalted state, you gain 
the following benefits: 
+ The weapon's bonus to attack and damage rolls 
increases to +3. 
+ The burst of radiance you can create asa reaction 
when hit with a melee attack deals 1412 radiant 
damage, and you can immediately teleport to an 
unoccupied space you can see within 15 feet of you 
as part of the same reaction. 
You can cast the fly spell from the sword as an 
action, and the save DC for spells cast using the 
sword increases to 17. 
PW Arcanum were 
designed 
with hopes to surpass or even 
destroy the gods, but not so with Dwueth'var. That shin 
ing 
sword, bright with the light of the bold full moon and 
the enigmatic starlit night, was forged by acolytes of the 
Wildmother and the Moonweaver, united in their love ofseg 
this fragile world and their determination to protect it: 
AF 
HIGH CURATOR JORUM IRRELIOS, CIRCA 547 P.D, 
TAL’DORE! CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 212 ---
TITANSTONE KNUCKLES 
Wondrous item, legendary (requires attunement) 
Carved from the heartstone of a slain earth primor- 
ial, these gauntlets bestow immeasurable might to 
their 
wearer. In recent times, they were wielded by 
the legendary barbarian Grog Strongjaw, who con- 
tinues to use them as he seeks worthy challengers 
across Tal'Dorei and Exandria. 
Dormant 
While the Titanstone Knuckles are in a dormant 
state, your Strength score becomes 22 while you 
wear these gauntlets. Additionally, your weapon 
attacks deal double damage to objects and 
structures. 
AWAKENED 
When the Titanstone Knuckles reach an awakened 
state, they gain the following properties: 
Your Strength score becomes 24. 
+ You can use an action to cast the enlarge/reduce 
spell from the gauntlets on yourself (enlarge only), 
with a duration of 10 minutes. This property of 
the gauntlets can't be used again until you finish a 
long 
EXALTED 
When the Titanstone Knuckles reach an exalted 
state, they gain the following properties: 
+ Your Strength score becomes 26. 
+ While you are under the effect of the enlange/ 
reduce spell cast by the gauntlets, you have resis- 
tance to cold, fire, lightning, and thunder damage. 
KucnLes 
GAME MASTER’S TOOLKIT 
CHAPTER 
THANSTONE 
WHISPER 
Weapon (dagger), legendary (requires attunement) 
Forged with a mercurial metal accidentally drawn 
from the Realms Beyond, this dagger shimmers with 
an unsettling sourceless light. It was once wielded 
by Vax'ildan, a legendary champion of the Matron of 
Ravens. Two raven feathers are linked to its pommel 
as a memento of its former bearer. 
DORMANT 
While Whisper is in a dormant state, you gain 
a +1 
bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this 
magic weapon. 
Additionally, when you score a critical hit with this 
dagger, the target must succeed on a DC 13 Wisdom 
saving throw or become frightened of you for 1 min- 
ute. On a success, the target is immune to this effect 
for 24 hours. 
AWAKENED 
When Whisper reaches an awakened state, you gain 
the following benefits: 
+ The weapon's bonus to attack and damage rolls 
increases to +2. Additionally, when you hit with an 
attack using this dagger, the target takes an extra 
1d6 psychic damage. 
+ The DC to resist being frightened from a critical 
hit increases to 15.

--- PAGE 213 ---
EXALTED 
When Whisper reaches an exalted state, you gain the 
following benefits: 
+ The weapon’s bonus to attack and damage rolls 
increases to +3, and the extra psychic damage 
deals increases to 148. 
The DC to resist being frightened from a critical 
hit increases to 17. 
+ When this dagger is used to make a ranged attack, 
you can choose to transform into shadow and 
‘merge with the blade as part of the action used 
to attack, teleporting to another location. If the 
attack hits, you appear in an unoccupied space of 
your choice within 5 feet of the target. If the attack 
misses, you appear where the GM determines the 
dagger lands (typically within 1d6 * 5 feet of the 
target). In either case, you appear with the dagger 
in your hand. 
WRAPS OF DYAMAK 
Wondrous item, legendary (requires attunement 
by 
a monk) 
Created and wielded by the ancient warrior-monk 
Dyamak, these thick strips of enchanted cloth 
are stained to appear dark crimson with blood of 
unknown origin. The current resting place of the 
wraps is unknown. 
DORMANT 
When the Wraps of Dyamak are in a dormant state, 
you gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made 
with your unarmed strike while wearing them, 
URaPs oF 
DYAMAK 
212 
In addition, when you finish a short or long rest, 
you gain a number of temporary hit points equal to 
your total number 
of ki points. 
AWAKENED 
When the Wraps of Dyamak reach an awakened 
state, they gain the following properties: 
+ The bonus to attack and damage rolls with your 
unarmed strike increases to +2. 
+ You can cast the misty step spell from the wraps 
as a bonus action, vanishing in a cloud of crimson 
mist. This property of the wraps can't be used 
again until you finish a short or long rest, or until 
you score a critical hit with an unarmed strike 
against a hostile creature. 
EXALTED 
When the Wraps of Dyamak reach an exalted state, 
they gain the following properties: 
The bonus to attack and damage rolls with your 
unarmed strike increases to +3. 
When you hit with an unarmed strike, you can 
choose to make the attack a ravenous strike. The 
target takes an extra 6d6 necrotic damage, and you 
regain hit points equal to the amount of necrotic 
damage dealt. This property of the wraps can't be 
used again until you finish a long rest, or until you 
score a critical hit with an unarmed strike against 
a hostile creature. 
OPTIONAL CAMPAIGN 
RULES 
Every campaign embarks 
on its heroic tale in its 
own way. Simple beginnings for a ragtag lot of 
sellswords. Students of the world falling in with the 
wrong crowd. Unwitting pawns of destiny thrust into 
plots much larger than themselves. However you 
wish to formulate your story and world—whether as 
player or GM—the rules of the game can help set a 
clear vision of how to run a campaign with consis- 
tency and intended design. 
That being said, sometimes the experienced 
group wishes to add some new flavor to the existing 
structure of the gaming world. You can bring in new 
options for old rules, or adjust to a more advanced 
level of difficulty in a mystical world where danger— 
and even death—can be easily circumvented. This 
section outlines a number of homebrew rules and 
guidelines that any campaign can adopt to further 
customize the gaming experience, and which can fit 
in especially well with a Tal’Dorei campaign. 
As with any homebrew or nonstandard rules 
and options, any of the options presented here 
that appeal to the players should be approved and 
implemented by the Game Master. Likewise, Game 
Masters should discuss the possible inclusion of 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 214 ---
any of these options with players beforehand, to 
ensure that everyone will have fun with the intended 
changes. Talk these options over and make sure 
everyone is aware of and fully understands the 
new rules. 
ACCELERATED RESTS 
Certain adventures thrive on the adrenaline of 
the chase or the ever-present fear of ambush. As 
it stands, the need to take a short rest can prove 
difficult during long dungeon crawls, and this tends 
itself to a nice tone of personal stress and risk versus 
reward. However, sometimes a rest is necessary for 
the party to continue, even if the current rush of the 
story's clock won't allow for the hour that a short rest 
requires. 
One way to make short rests less intrusive is to 
let characters take one in a reduced amount of time. 
If the characters have only 10 minutes to spare, let 
them take a 10-minute short rest. If they have half 
an hour to spare, let them take a short rest in 30 
minutes. This 
fits the game mechanics to the story's, 
narrative, rather than the other way around. 
In a campaign that implements this option, a char- 
acter must finish a long rest before they can take an 
accelerated short rest again. 
ARDUOUS RALLY 
If fudging game mechanics to support the cam- 
paign’s narrative doesn't feel right for your group, 
the characters can potentially make use of the option 
to take an arduous rally instead of a 
short rest. This 
involves one or more characters spending 5 minutes 
to rally their resolve in the face of coming peril, 
letting their adrenaline fuel the need to push on. A 
character who undertakes an arduous rally gains the 
benefit of a short rest, but any hit points restored by 
spending Hit Dice are halved. Moreover, the charac- 
ter gains one level of exhaustion. 
ALTERNATIVE 
RESURRECTION RULES 
Character death often becomes no more than a 
minor inconvenience in some campaigns. Once 
an adventuring party reaches a certain 
level, the 
spells available to return fallen comrades from the 
afterlife—including revivify, raise dead, and resurrec- 
tion—make death no more than a temporary setback, 
potentially undermining one of the most significant 
elements of danger and threat in the campaign story. 
For players and GMs who wish to elevate the gravity 
of character death, the optional rules in this section 
offer three different approaches. 
CHAPTER 
AME MASTER’S TOOLKIT 
HARROWING RETURN 
In games that use this house rule, the process of 
a 
character dying and being pulled back into their body 
becomes a traumatic experience. The magic that 
pulls the spirit from beyond the dark veil of death 
takes a toll on that spirit each time, changing 
a per- 
son in unexpected and profound ways. 
This rule is best for campaigns 
with dark and 
horrific themes. It adds a dose of grim bleakness 
that might not feel at home in epic and heroic 
stories. 
Players and GMs who want to make use of this rule 
should talk about it beforehand, and if any player 
says no or doesn't offer enthusiastic support, it's best, 
to not use it. I's also important for GMs to check in 
with the players whenever this rule comes into play, 
just to make sure everyone is still having fun 
with the 
darker themes. 
When a character is brought back to life by any 
spell other than true resurrection, that character 
must make a Wisdom saving 
throw with a DC 
equal to 22 ~ the level of the spell used to return 
the character to life. On a failure, the character's 
experience of death and the afterlife exacts a heavy 
toll, determined by rolling on the Harrowing Return 
table. The consequence lasts until the GM rules that 
the character has resolved it. Consequences with no 
clear resolution last for 1d10 * 10 days, after which 
the player decides how their character overcame 
it. Or, to make a campaign even darker, the players 
and the GM can agree that these consequences last 
indefinitely. 
Alternatively, rather than rolling on the table, 
a player and a GM can work together to choose a 
consequence that creates an interesting story for the 
character. Such a consequence might tie to the char- 
acter's backstory, the themes of the campaign, or the 
circumstances under which the character died. 
A remove curse spell temporarily suppresses a 
consequence of being brought back from the dead, 
but the consequence returns each time the character 
drops to 0 hit points or finishes a long rest, until the 
consequence is resolved. 
O lady 
of cold Winters and the long night ofall souls 
O harbinger of all ends and eternal sentinel of the final 
threshold. I entreat you—nay, I beseech you! You bear 
within your grasp the soul of one whose fate has not yet 
reached its end. Bear witness, O queen of night-blac 
feathers; turn your divine gaze to the golden bonds that 
tie the living to the departed. 
The tears of 
a brother, who weeps without shame. 
The blade 
of a lover, who grieves 
she did not die while 
holding 
it in battle alongside you. 
A portrait painted by 
‘amother, of an infant, untouched by the sorrows of the 
world. O Matron of Death, I plead to you—hear their 
GB! Let not this warrior’ fate end here 
E28 = RVALIO, CLERI@OPTHE MATRON OF RAVENS 
*

--- PAGE 215 ---
3 
HARROWING RETURN 
10 
1 
10 
Consequence 
6 
Calll of the Grave. An angel of death is 
obsessed with your fleeting spirit, and wants 
you back. When you roll initiative at the start 
of combat, make a death saving throw. Ona 
failed save, the GM chooses an undead crea- 
ture with a CR equal to your level or lower. 
It appears at a point 120 feet away from 
you and joins the combat against you. The 
Creature knows where you are at all times 
and pursues you unerringly. It vanishes when 
7 
reduced to 0 hit points, when you die, or after 
10 minutes. 
Memories from the Beyond. The memory 
of death lingers. At the end of each long 
rest, describe how your character has tried 
to forget what dying felt like, then make a 
Wisdom saving throw with a DC set by the 
GM based on your answer. On a failed save, 
8 
you gain one level of exhaustion that lasts 
Until you are subject to greater restoration 
or similar magic, or until you spend 30 days 
in focused downtime to make peace with 
your memories. 
‘Obscure Purpose. A greater power allowed 
you to come back for a reason. This might 
be a god such as the Matron of Ravens that 
you can now commune with, or an obscure 
supernatural being. This consequence might 
be an opportunity to become a cleric or 
5 
Paladin of this god, orto take levels in the 
warlock class. Alternatively, if you choose 
not to swear a covenant with this entity, or if 
you disobey their requests, roll again on this 
table. You suffer the new consequences until 
you adhere to the purpose of this entity or 
find a way to rid yourself of their attention. 
Persistent Wounds. Whenever you fail a 
death saving throw, your hit point maximum is 
reduced by 2d10 until you finish a long rest. If 
your hit point maximum is reduced to O in this 
way, you die. 
10 
Secret Face. You are no longer you, but a 
chaotic evil shapechanger who has taken 
your place. You play this duplicate and 
use your original game statistics until the 
duplicate is killed or until this consequence 
is otherwise overcome. The GM determines 
where your sou! is actually being held 
captive—possibly in the afterlife for which 
you were intended, or in your double’s 
malign realm. 
Consequence 
Hunger for Death. Once per day, you or the 
GM must decide that you use the follow 
ing reaction: When you see a creature you 
perceive as hostile or potentially hostile and 
your distance to that creature is equal to or 
less than your speed, you immediately and 
aggressively move your speed toward that 
creature, then make one melee attack against 
it, You have advantage on the attack roll if 
your attack is unexpected. 
Opaque Thoughts. You obsessively recall 
the sensation of life tearing you from the jaws 
of death. These ever-present memories fill 
your mind, making you immune to any effect 
that would sense your emotions or read your 
thoughts. Likewise, other creatures have dis- 
advantage on Wisdom (Insight) checks made 
to ascertain your intentions. 
Unearthly Awareness. Your ordeal left a 
mark upon your soul, which now shudders in 
the presence of the undead. You know when- 
ever an undead creature is within 30 feet of 
you, and you don’t have disadvantage on 
attacks against invisible undead within this 
range. This constant awareness is distract- 
ing, however, and you have disadvantage on 
Intelligence (Investigation) and Wisdom (Per- 
ception) checks while any undead creature is 
within 30 feet of you. 
Bond of Vengeance. You have returned as 
a revenant, bearing an unquenchable spark 
of hatred for the creature that killed you. 
‘Asan action, you can focus on this spark to 
immediately learn the distance and direction 
to any creature that has killed you. If that 
creature is on a different plane, you learn only 
that information. If a creature that killed you 
dies, you immediately know. If you are within 
120 feet of 
a creature that killed you, you 
have disadvantage on attack rolls against any 
other creature. 
Never Again. You don't fall unconscious 
when reduced to 0 hit points. Instead, you 
remain conscious until you end your turn 
without having attacked a creature or cast 
a spell of 1st level or higher. While you have 
Ohit points, you have advantage on attack 
rolls, your attacks deal an extra 1d10 damage 
‘on a hit, and attack rolls made against you 
have disadvantage. You make death saving 
throws as normal, including suffering a failure 
when you take damage. Additionally, when- 
ever you take damage while at 0 hit points, 
your hit point maximum is reduced by an 
amount equal to the damage until you finish a 
ong rest. 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING REBORN

--- PAGE 216 ---
Like all of the great rites of passage in life, death 
changes us. Simply returning to the world of the 
living does not undo that change, nor 
simpl 
tat all 
Those who have passed beyond the veil 
d by it, even if they manage to find 
their way bagk. 
—FROM “UNFINISHED RITES,” BY CLARET 
D NARREI 
are ma 
FADING SPIRITS 
‘This house rule is used in the Critical Role lives- 
tream to increase the emotional stakes of bringing 
a beloved friend back from the dead. It also adds the 
ever-increasing threat of losing a friend permanently 
to the game, even with the aid of 
miraculous magic 
If magic is used to bring a character back from the 
dead (except for the revivify spell; see below), every- 
one present becomes part of a resurrection ritual. Up 
to three characters present for the ritual—typically 
members of the deceased's adventuring party—can 
contribute to the ritual by attempting to call their 
ally’s spirit back. This could involve delivering a 
stirring speech, playing a song from their shared 
childhood, goading a rival back with a display of 
sword skills, confessing undying love for them, or 
anything else that the players or the GM consider 
emotionally stirring. 
Participating in the Ritual. Each of the partici- 
pating characters makes 
an ability check. A player 
can tell the GM what kind of check they want to 
make, but ultimately the GM decides what check is 
appropriate based on the character's contribution. 
to the ritual. The baseline DC of this check is 15, 
but the GM can raise or lower the DC (typically any- 
where between 10 and 20) if the contribution seems 
particularly appropriate or particularly 
For example, praying to a fallen paladin's god for 
mercy might require a participant to make a DC 
10 Intelligence (Religion) check, whereas shouting 
at a dead friend’s corpse to get back up and stop 
lazing around might require a DC 20 Charisma 
(Intimidation) check. If the contribution is roleplayed 
ina particularly touching way, the GM can grant 
advantage on the check—even if the check’s DC 
remains high. 
Resurrection Check. After all the characters’ con- 
tributions are completed, the GM rolls a single, final 
resurrection check with no modifier. The base DC of 
this check is 10, but it is modified in three ways 
‘The DC is increased by 1 for every time the 
character has returned to life before, as the soul's 
connection to this world is slowly eroded by repeat- 
edly dying and returning. 
+ The DCis reduced by 3 for each successful contri- 
bution from the other participants in this ritual. 
incere. 
CHAPTER GAME MASTER’S TOOLKIT 
+ The DCis 
increased by 1 for each failed contribu- 
tion to the ritual. 
If the resurrection check is successful, the char- 
acter's soul is returned to their body (if the soul is 
willing, as usual). If the check fails, the soul does not, 
return—and the character is permanently unable to 
be raised from the dead. 
True Miracles. If a character is brought back 
from the dead by the ¢rue resurrection or the wish 
spell, or by a god, they instantly return to life without 
the need for a resurrection ritual. Additionally, if 
a 
character has been permanently lost due to a failed 
resurrection ritual, the GM can allow a casting 
of 
true resurrection or wish to begin a lastchance res- 
urrection ritual—one that can't be repeated if failed. 
Revivify. Ifa spell with a casting time of 1 action 
is used to restore life to a creature (including the 
revivify spell), no one but the caster can participate 
in the resurrection ritual. The caster makes a quick 
resurrection check by rolling a d20 and adding their 
spellcasting ability modifier, against a DC equal to. 
10 +1 for every time the character has returned to 
life before. On a failure, the characte: 
soul is not 
lost, but the resurrection fails and increases the 
DC of any future resurrection checks by 1. Further 
attempts to bring the character back to life must 
involve a spell with a casting time longer than 1 
action (including raise dead or resurrection). 
TAXING RETURN 
In a campaign that uses this house rule, whenever 
a character is restored to life, the process corrodes 
a fraction of their vitality, slowly consuming the 
body until it can no longer sustain 
life, Each time 
a character is brought back to life by a spell other 
than true resurrection, that character's Constitution 
score is permanently reduced by 1. This loss can't be 
restored except by use of a wish spell. A character 
whose Constitution score is reduced to 0 in this way 
dies permanently and can’t be returned to life by 
any means. 
RAPID QUAFFING 
This house rule lets characters grab and drink a 
potion as a bonus action, enabling them to heal or 
buff up in combat without sacrificing their primary 
attacks or spellcasting to do so. (This applies to ene- 
mies and NPCs as well as player characters!) 
Using this house rule, you can use a bonus action 
to drink a potion yourself, It still requires an action 
to administer a potion to another creature. You can 
also choose to only apply this house rule to potions of 
healing and their variants (potion of greater healing, 
etc.), In this less powerful version of the house rule, 
you can consume a potion that restores hit points as 
a bonus action, but all other potions still require you 
to use your action.

--- PAGE 218 ---
CHAPTER 6 
ALLIES AND ADVERSARIES OF TAL DOREI 
‘The lands of Tal'Dorei are filled with people and 
monsters prepared to ambush adventurers, barter 
with entrepreneurial explorers, 
and forge alliances 
with charismatic characters—or at least with those 
willing to pay. 
The first part of this chapter is a discussion of just 
some of the many types of creatures a GM might 
use as NPCs in a Tal'Dorei campaign (including 
creatures of the races 
presented in chapter 4). The 
second part of the chapter is a bestiary with game 
statistics for new NPCs and monsters unique to 
Tal'Dorei and other parts of Exandria. 
NONPLAYER CREATURES 
Tal'Dorei is filled with non-humanoid beings that 
leave their mark on the world even if they typically 
don't go on adventures in dungeons or journey across 
of creatures in 
er characters can 
encounter on their adventures as either friends or 
foes. Many of these 
creatures are fully described in 
the fifth edition rules. The lore 
here 
simply covers 
how they function in the world of Exandria. 
‘The creatures 
in this 
section include many not 
meant to be used as player characters in a typical 
campaign, including those 
with non-humanoid physi- 
ology (such as centaurs), large size (including giants), 
or alien minds (aboleths and the like). But many 
other creatures of 
Exandria are suitable for player 
character use even if they don’t have statistics in the 
fifth e 
such as minotaurs, 
gnolls, and the many humanoids with animal-like 
traits ranging from eagles to elephants can be used 
as player characters if players and Game Masters are 
willing to put in the effort to make them work in a 
campaign. The same is technically true for creatures 
like dragons, 
fey, and giants, but their size and innate 
powers can make it difficult for them to be members 
of a balanced adventuring party. 
ABOLETHS 
Vile, intelligent, and imbued 
with corrupting psychic 
abilities, aboleths are three-eyed piscine beings that 
lurk in watery grottos deep beneath the surface of 
Exandria. These aberrations are irredeemably evi 
and all who attempt diplomacy with an aboleth end 
upas their food—or worse, 
their mindless thralls. 
Most aboleths grandiloquently claim 
that they have 
1no notion of morality, but only an inexorable sense 
of purpose that is utterly inscrutable to the lesser 
CHAPTER 
6: ALLIES AND ADVERSARIES 
OF TAL’DOREL 
minds of humanoid creatures. But even such “lesser 
minds” can understand that an aboleth's purpose 
is the psychic domination of al life, for the lives of 
other creatures have no value to 
Aboleths can be found throughout the under- 
ground waterways of Tal'Dorei, typically living in 
isolation with only their thralls for company. These 
aberrations are loath to work together, for their 
perfect memories never permit them to forget a 
grudge. It is fortunate that these arrogant creatures 
are all but incapable of cooperation, for if their 
genius-level intellects were united, they might well be 
unstoppable. 
During the Age of Arcanum, an aboleth empire 
covered the length and breadth of Tal'Dorei’s subter- 
ranean world. This dominion’s heart was Salar, the 
Unseeable City (see page 142), Though Salar is 
naught but a ruin in the Crystalfen Caverns beneath 
Emon now, aboleths still journey there in hopes of 
finding some remnant of their lost glory. Salar is 
little more than legend to the world above—but even 
though few have 
seen it and survived, the Unseeable 
City is no myth. Some arcanists even speculate that 
the lingering psychic footprint of the ruined city is 
what drew the first Issylran settlers to the area, and 
what inspired them to build Emon above it. 
CATFOLK 
The catfolk of Tal'Dorei are as widespread and as 
variable in shape and color as the cats they resem- 
ble. They usually live 
solitary lives, claiming small 
territories to call their own, though some catfolk live 
as small family units with 
little conflict. Moreover, 
their feline instinct for solitude doesn't get in the 
way of catfolk interacting with other people around 
them. Indeed, many catfolk are highly social around 
others, safe in the knowledge that they can retreat 
toa solitude promising safety and calm whenever 
they need to. 
No consistent creation myth exists for these 
people, who can be found living as cave dwellers 
in the Cliffkeep Mountains, as city folk with their 
own private flats in Emon, as cunning trackers and 
community builders in the Rifenmist Jungle, and 
more. Generally, catfolk believe that their kind were 
all once normal animals, transformed by incredible 
magic in the ancient past. This transformation might 
have been a gift from the gods when magic washed 
over the world during the Age of Arcanum, or when 
Exandria trembled beneath the divine powers 
unleashed in the Calamity. 
217

--- PAGE 219 ---
218 
CENTAURS 
During the Calamity, many elves fled into the Fey 
Realm to escape that terrible war. One elven tribe 
that remained on Exandria to fight alongside their 
gods were known as the Horselords of Laphithas. 
The elves of Laphithas rode alongside the Arch 
Heart against the mortal servants of the Ruiner, but 
the entire tribe was slain in a burst of chaotic magic 
when the Arch Heart stabbed the Ruiner through 
one eye. The overflowing power of the wounded god 
merged these elves’ mortal bodies with the bodies of 
their steeds even as they died. 
The Arch Heart rewarded the elves of Laphithas 
by reviving them as centaurs, who would ride across 
the Dividing Plains 
forever free of war. Centaurs 
have long since diverged from their elven ancestry, 
viewing themselves as a people all their own. Still, 
some centaurs throw their arms wide to the elves of 
Syngorn as long-lost cousins, even as others nurture 
an ancient grudge against them for fleeing when 
their people's need was greatest. Many of the centaur 
herds of the plains are incredibly faithful, worshiping 
the Arch Heart with a fervor unknown even among 
the elves. 
Centaurs share an origin with ores (see page 
162), who were also originally elves before being 
changed by the conflict between the Arch Heart and 
the Ruiner. Many centaurs and ores of the Divi 
ing Plains see one another as kindred, but just as 
with real family, this bond can engender feelings 
of intense affection or equally intense hatred—or 
simply indifference. The circumstances of their lives 
determine the way orcs and centaurs feel about one 
another, though their kinship brings them into fre- 
quent contact either way. 
DRAGONS 
Dragons have existed in Tal’Dorei since the Found- 
ing, when these 
mighty beings were created by the 
Platinum Dragon and the Scaled Tyrant to protect 
their interests on the Material Plane. All folk of 
Tal'Dorei know the power of dragons, and many peo- 
ple have witnessed it firsthand. Even the youngest 
humanoid vietims of the Chroma Conclave's attack 
‘on Emon are old enough now to be parents, and to 
have passed down tales of the terror that filled the 
city's streets as doom rained down from above. 
METALLIC DRAGONS 
Though couniless popular stories tell of heroic war- 
riors slaying evil, greedy, and monstrous dragons, 
the oldest legends of dragonkind speak of their roles 
as benevolent protectors of the weak. In the time of 
the world’s beginning, the Platinum Dragon created 
beings in his image, with scales of shining metal and 
kindly hearts. Those metallic dragons helped the 
mortal people of Exandria survive the turbulence of 
the Founding. But since those days, most metallic 
dragons have vanished from the world, leaving their 
kindness and virtue to linger on in myth and legend 
rather than the chronicles of history. 
On clear days, a lucky traveler might look up to 
the blue skies of the Dividing Plains and feel their 
heart thump faster at the sight of sun glinting off 
silvery wings high above the world. For the most 
part, though, those metallic dragons who remain 
in the world use their shapechanging magic to live 
among humanoids, watching quietly from the back- 
ground and gently nudging people in the direction of 
prosperity. After all, the Platinum Dragon's creations 
still look upon mortals as their charges—but times 
have changed. Mortals are now too numerous for the 
scant remaining metallic dragons to guide them as 
they once did. But a watchful observer can see the 
ills of society and whisper a word of caution into the 
ear ofa mortal who might do something about it. 
Lest any forget, the metallic dragons are not all 
friends to mortalkind. For some of these protectors 
of the small, time has caused them to grow selfish 
and disillusioned with their creator's commandment. 
‘These venal metallic dragons use their silver tongues 
and sterling reputations to manipulate mortals. 
CHROMATIC DRAGONS 
Fire, acid, poison, ice, and lightning rained dev- 
astation upon the world when the Betrayer God 
known as the Scaled Tyrant created the unparalleled 
warriors that would serve her whims. The greed and 
malice of chromatic dragons are the stuff 
of count- 
less legends—as are the mountains of gold and other 
treasures amassed within their lairs. 
Dozens of cruel chromatic dragons lurk in the 
darkest depths of the forests, the highest mountain 
peaks, and the most arid, barren wastelands of 
Tal'Dorei. Though the devastation of the Chroma 
Conclave is not yet three decades past, scores of 
adventurers have chosen to forget the horror of 
seeing flesh melt from bone beneath Umbrasy!'s 
acid breath, or beholding scores choke in Raishan’s 
poison fumes. Those adventurers now seek glory by 
hunting young and ambitious chromatic dragons, 
and claiming their nascent treasure hoards. 
At the same time, not all chromatic dragons cling 
to the ways of their creator. A number of such drag- 
ons witnessed the horrors unleashed by the Cinder 
King and his minions, and recoiled in disgust. 
Tales are told of how Westruun was the beneficiary 
of 
a donation of over fifty thousand gold pieces 
from a mysterious young red dragon who suppos- 
edly admired the Cinder King’s ambition, but was 
appalled by his flagrant disregard for life. 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 220 ---
DRIDERS 
‘The Betrayer God known as the Spider Queen was 
one of the first casualties of the Calamity—impaled 
by the Stormlord’s thunderspear before her dark elf 
soldiers ever saw battle. Her blood, thick and silvery, 
seeped into the earth and pooled in the sunless 
caverns beneath Exandria. In the centuries that 
followed her defeat, these pools of divine blood were 
discovered by the Spider Queen's most loyal dark elf 
servants, and they drank deeply. 
The blood of the Spider Queen granted these 
drow the goddess's terrible power, and warped their 
bodies into forms that are half-spider, half-elf. Called 
driders, these beings grew in number as more and 
more drow accepted this gift. In time, the pools of 
divine blood began to run dry, and the driders found 
themselves tormented by its absence. They now 
roam the caverns and tunnels beneath Exandria, 
desperately searching for 
hidden pools of the sil- 
ver nectar. 
FEY. 
People don't discover the fey; rather, the fey discover 
people. Though enchanted forests are their favored 
domain, fey folk 
can be found wherever the power 
of nature is strong—even a flower garden in the 
middle of Emon. Of course, Emonian scholars 
endlessly debate whether the fey typically come to an 
enchanted forest because of its magic, or whether the 
magic of such sites blooms because of the fey. The 
answers to such mysteries are known to the Archfey, 
of course—but they don’t like spilling secrets. 
The Fey Realm is a place of intense emotion. 
There, happiness becomes elation, anger becomes 
fury, and passions become obsessions. The very 
shapes of the fey are defined by their innermost 
feelings, and even fey siblings can take different 
forms based on what they feel most strongly about. 
‘Two daughters of pixie parents are just as likely to be 
a sprite and a satyr if one sister is drawn to war and 
the other to revelry. And though uncommon, it is not 
unheard of for a fey to completely and spontaneously 
change form after a life-altering event. Since most 
fey live for upward of three centuries, a particularly 
unstable fey might take a dozen forms over the 
course of their life, wildly changing their physical 
form, voice, gender, likes and dislikes, and more. 
Though the fey are beings of chaos and change, 
one immutable factor of fey life is that all are 
beholden to the Archfey. The immortal and impe- 
rious rulers of feykind, the Archfey rarely travel to 
Exandria, 
instead spending their time scheming 
against each other and plotting elaborate political 
intrigues. When mortals enter their realm, the 
Archfey take notice and often spy on them in person, 
using clever disguises and misdirection to keep 
CHAPTER 6: ALLIES AND ADVERSARIES OF TALDOREL

--- PAGE 221 ---
220, 
those mortals from disrupting the Archfey's own 
maneuvering. Vox Machina was once pursued by 
Lord Artagan of the Morncrown, a jovial Archfey 
who finds the incursions of mortals more amusing 
than distressing. And there are rumors that Artagan 
has made his presence known on the Material Plane 
as well, as a mysterious being known as the Traveler 
(ee page 42). 
‘The mages of the Arcana Pansophical have con- 
firmed the identities of three other Archfey, though 
little else is known about them. They include Lord 
Saundor the Forsaken, the reportedly deceased 
Master of the Shademurk; Lady Elmenore the 
Unforgiving, High Warqueen of the Burning Vale and 
Matriarch of the Seelie Court; and Potentate Sam- 
manar, They-Who-Walk-Unseen, keeper of the Sun's 
Shadow and Master 
of the Unseelie Court. Addition- 
ally, a spy of the Arcana Pansophical traveling in the 
Fey Realm is said to have uncovered rumors of the 
existence of an Archfey known as the Keeper of the 
Moontides, or simply the Keeper. Since delivering 
her first report, however, this 
spy has not been heard 
from again. 
GIANTKIN 
Some Issylran myths and legend speak of the giants 
as the precursors to humanity, calling them the 
gods’ failed attempts to create what would become 
humankind. Other tales 
suggest that the giants are 
what became of humans who tried to ascend to god- 
hood, making 
bargains with fiends and imbibing the 
elemental essences of primordial spirits. 
Regardless of their connection to humanoid: 
giants have longed dwelled far from humanoid cities 
and settlements. The so-called highborn giantkin 
stay isolated because they believe humanoids to be 
warlike, foolish, and untrustworthy. The lowborn 
giants who hold a place below the highborn are 
reclusive because humanoid legends paint them as 
terrible monsters to be hunted and slain. 
Giants have a natural life span of about 300 years, 
though lives of hardship and toil mean that lowborn 
giants rarely live past 200 years. Highborn giants 
in their isolated and idyllic cities usually live full 
lives and die of old age more than any other cause— 
though 
highborn politics can be cutthroat, and 
assassination has ended the long life of many a giant 
over the centuries. 
LOWBORN GIANTS 
Ogres, cyclopes, and hill giants occupy the lowest 
rungs of giant society. The highborn keep them at 
arm’s length, using them as a sort of barrier between 
humanoid and giant 
civilizations. The lowborn band 
together, forming tight-knit social groups that must 
fight and forage to survive. Cyclopes typically rule 
lowborn settlements, and some hill giant warriors 
ritualistically tear out one eye to emulate their 
rulers. Zealous hill giant worshipers of the Ruiner 
sometimes do the same, 
with that god granting them 
power to survive in exchange for ever-increasing 
sacrifices. 
Cyclopes, ogres, and hill giants who turn to cor- 
rupting magic to help them survive lives of hunger 
and exile sometimes tumble into a cycle of cruelty 
and devotion to evil powers from which there is no 
escape. Their minds and bodies are warped beyond 
recognition, turning them into trolls or oni, These 
giants gain tremendous power but lose any sense 
of compassion. Such corrupted giants typically live 
selfishly, and try to transform lowborn enclaves into 
their own personal armies of conquest. 
HIGHBORN GIANTS 
The humanoid peoples of Tal’Dorei divide the high- 
born giants into five types: cloud, fire, frost, stone, 
and storm. These giants are considered one people 
divided into different cultures, having adopted differ- 
ent magics, fighting styles, and codes of ethics and 
law. Highborn giants are proud of their ability to look 
their kin in the eye as equals, making it ironic how 
few of them acknowledge the caste divide between 
highborn and lowborn. 
The hill giants were once considered highborn, 
but were stripped of their nobility and exiled by the 
Council of Seven Scepters, and their culture has 
long since fallen into ruin. 
Cloud Giants. These lofty giants are denizens of 
Jovatthon, the Castle of Thunder. This mighty city- 
state flies invisibly above Tal'Dorei, enshrouded in 
thick storm clouds and tracing a clockwise 
circular 
route around the continent that avoids its cloudless, 
arid heartland. The cloud giants are ruled by two 
wedded monarchs, currently a City-King in charge 
of domestic affairs, and a War-King tasked with 
the defense of Jovatthon against dragons and other 
highborn giants. The current City-King isa stern, 
fearsome ruler named Ardokles, while the War-King 
is a much more charismatic and beloved general 
named Vasilios. 
Fire Giants. These subterranean giants dwell 
in the same tunnels as drow and duergar, typically 
beneath volcanically active mountain ranges whose 
natural magma fuels their forges. The heart of fire 
giant civilization is the city-state of Vulkanon, located 
within the deep magma tubes beneath the Cliffkeep 
Mountains. Though their citadels are spacious and 
vast, many fire giants have a perpetually stooped pos- 
ture due to the low clearance of their underground 
homes. They are masters of the forge, and have 
been known to occasionally ally with the duergar of 
the Emberhold to produce some of the finest arms 
ever seen in Tal’Dorei. Weapons of Vulkanon steel 
are prized by mercenaries across the continent, as 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIG! N SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 222 ---
much for their value as status symbols as their worth 
in combat. 
The ruler of Vulkanon, the Grand Legate Phaestor, 
has long dreamed of expanding his empire, and the 
fire giants’ duergar allies have granted them a strate- 
gic foothold in Tal'Dorei's darkest depths. Fire giants 
might prove to be a dangerous enemy to the folk of 
the surface world—but they might also be a fierce 
ally in the fight against the aberrations lurking in the 
depths, including the aboleths of Salar. 
Frost Giants. Few beings can survive the Nev- 
rfields, the frozen wasteland north of the Cliffkeep 
Mountains. But the frost giants, riding on the backs 
of chitinous remorhaz and woolly mammoths, have 
risen to be the undisputed rulers of this frigid land. 
Though their people are mostly nomadic reavers 
led by petty jarls, they all swear fealty to High King 
Jorskymmar, who rules from the fortress-city of 
Jotunborg. 
‘The frost giants of Jotunborg 
are renowned for 
their ability to tame the fearsome beasts of the 
Neverfields—including the white dragons that haunt 
the skies of that land. This skill and their knack for 
surviving in an inhospitable realm has made the 
giants of Jotunborg a pious people, and most pray 
to the Wildmother for safety before crossing the ice 
fields. Some giants who have suffered near-death 
experiences, whether being trapped beneath an icy 
lake or smothered by an avalanche, clandestinely 
join one of the cults of the Chained Oblivion, seeking 
solace in the inevitability of eternal cold. 
Stone Giants, Few things are more striking than 
the sight of a stone giant atop a mountain peak, 
silhouetted against the sun. Some mountain climb- 
ers fortunate enough to 
see such a sight become 
convinced that they have gazed upon the Dawnfa- 
ther himself. Stone giants are happy to encourage 
such rumors, for it makes their existence seem 
more like myth than fact. These reclusive highborn 
giantkin live in fortresses carved from the peaks of 
mountains. Their greatest stronghold is Skyanchor 
Citadel, a city hidden within a peak of the Alabaster 
Sierras, its halls winding 
from the mountain’s deep- 
est roots to its highest summit. 
Stone giant culture holds physical perfection 
as the greatest of all virtues, and stone giants are 
obsessed with physical appearance and feats of 
strength. But unlike the lowborn giantkin who have 
grown strong and resilient out of struggle, stone 
giants see physical power as an abstract virtue, best 
used in sporting events. A quadrennial tournament 
of prowess called the Sky Queen’s Favor is held in 
coliseums atop Skyanchor, and highborn giants from 
across Tal'Dorei gather there to compete in tests 
of strength, agility, and endurance. Even the stone 
giants’ humanoid kin, the half-giant goliaths, are 
occasionally present at the Sky Queen’s Favor. 
CHAPTER 
6: ALLIES AND ADVERSARIES 
OF TAL'DOREI 
Storm Giants. The most mysterious of all the 
highborn, the storm giants are rarely seen even by 
other giantkin. Their flying city-state of Tempestar 
was destroyed by an unknown force centuries ago, 
and all the glories of their realm were cast into the 
Lucidian Ocean, hundreds of miles off the coast. 
Storm giants now live solitary lives, calling no other 
giants their neighbors, and caring only for them- 
selves and their families. 
Centuries have passed since Tempestar was last 
the seat of the Council of Seven Scepters, yet the 
otherwise-reclusive storm giant leader, Sea Dreamer 
Galadawna, has never missed a meeting of the coun- 
cil. Though she takes little interest in the day-to-day 
minutiae of highborn society, she ensures that the 
other giant leaders never forget about her people—or 
the thunderous might of their sorcerers. 
Council 
of Seven Scepters. The highborn are 
united by a democratic council that convenes annu- 
ally for one week in the tallest spire of Jovatthon, 
the cloud giant citadel. The ruler of each giant 
\cluding the two rulers of the cloud 
giants—have a seat on the council, though that seat 
sometimes taken by a highly placed ambassador or 
representative of the ruler. When the council meets, 
its members deliberate on how best to maintain 
peace and prosperity. For even as they do their best 
to maintain a safe distance from the humanoid peo- 
ples of Tal'Dorei, the last thing the highborn giants 
desire is 
infighting among themselves. 
‘Two of the seven thrones of the council have 
remained empty for generations. Hillqueen 
Ovam'mura refused to relinquish her scepter when 
her hill giant people were banished from the ranks 
of the highborn, and the Scepter of Wodensdottr 
has gathered dust in Jovatthon’s vaults 
since Woden, 
demigod of the storm, abandoned the storm giants 
after the fall of Tempestar. Though the Sea Dreamer 
of Tempestar has never missed a gathering of the 
council, she has thus far refused to reclaim her 
throne or scepter, and the respons 
ties that come: 
with both. 
GNOLLS 
As their canine appearance suggests, gnolls are 
descended from hyenas that once roamed the Divid- 
ing Plains. A pack of these creatures 
was caught in 
the divine eminence of a Demon Prince that did bat- 
tle in the Calamity. When the nimbus of that demon’s 
unholy power faded, the beasts were transformed. 
Today, most gnolls are nomadic groups led by a 
rch and her mate. Many people of the Dividing 
Plains see gnolls as demonic monsters, and are 
driven to acts of cruelty against them by their fear. 
Nevertheless, many gnoll clans live side by side with 
the other humanoid peoples of Tal'Dorei in small 
towns across the plains, including the Dustpaw 
gnolls and the people of Turst Fields (see pag 
ie 
Meas 
ae 
221

--- PAGE 223 ---
222 
LIZARDFOLK 
The lizardfolk of Tal’Dorei emerged from the K’Tawl 
‘Swamp in the Age of Arcanum. Mages from an 
unnamed flying city descended into the swamp and 
conducted intense magical experiments on the local 
fauna. Some mutated into giant lizards, others into 
slithering swamp serpents—and others into human- 
oid beings. The mages took 
a few of these lizardfolk 
as specimens, and left the other fruits of their experi- 
ments behind. 
In time, these abandoned lizardfolk used their cun- 
ning minds and skilled hands to create tools. They 
called themselves the Kuul'tevir—noble masters of 
the earth and water. These folk advanced rapidly, 
and though they never matched the heights of the 
flying cities of the magi who created them, they built 
magnificent domains 
filled with towering spires and 
glimmering magical waterfalls. 
When the decadence of the Age of Arcanum gave 
way to the chaos of the Calamity, the Kuul'tevir 
delved deep 
into corrupting magic to save their 
grandeur. For a time, their people prospered, bol- 
stered by the magic of demons and evil gods. But in 
the end, the desire to survive at any cost turned the 
Kuultevir's rulers against one another. Cabals of 
petty warlocks tore the lizardfolk’s magnificent soci- 
ties apart, and the evil magic they wielded began to 
devour even the magic that the ancient mages had 
used to turn them from simple reptiles into a majes- 
tic people. 
Today, the majesty of the Kuut'tevir is little more 
than distant myth. Most lizardfolk live in small com- 
munities in swamps, jungles, and fiery mountains 
across Tal'Dorei. Some live in cities, especially those 
with hot, humid climates, but no lizardfolk today 
possess the supernatural poise and power that they 
did in the Age of Arcanum. Today, the lizardfolk 
are a people like any other—just trying to survive in 
modest comfort. But many 
still cling to the mythic 
memory of their ancient 
civilization and have allied 
themselves with terrible tyrants such as Thordak 
the Cinder King in an attempt to resurrect their 
lost glory. 
The serpentfolk of Vos’skyriss (see page 257) 
still dwell on Visa Isle, south of Daggerbay. They are 
more serpentine than lizardike, but it is suspected 
that their origins are similar to that of the lizardfolk. 
SAHUAGIN 
Known by sailors as “sea devils,” the shark-like 
sahuagin are both enemy and ally to humans who 
ride the waves, and are rumored to have spawned 
from a bottomless trench in the ocean floor. Pods of 
sahuagin have no de facto leader, and usually have 
no more than six members. However, several pods 
might band together and collaborate on tasks they 
could not accomplish alone, forming schools. These 
schools follow the will of the majority, and disobedi- 
ence is rare. 
The few sea devils who dominate multiple schools 
through personal strength are known as barons, who 
are as feared as they are revered. Sahuagin schools 
that fall under the sway of 
a baron often become 
known for their piracy and hunger for slaughter, as 
the members of the school are directed to steal trea- 
sure to appease 
their tyrant’s greed. Other schools 
might offer their services as mercenaries, aiding 
those humanoids willing to pay for their ferocity. 
Sahuagin pods sometimes fall under the corrupt- 
ing influence of aboleths or other aquatic aberrations, 
with these aberrations taking on roles as demi 
gods and the sahuagin who obey them becoming 
cultists. Instead of plundering ships for treasure, 
these sahuagin engineer shipwrecks and drag the 
survivors before their cruel overlord, who adds those 
humanoids to the ranks of their brainwashed thralls. 
The most feared of all these unholy figures is one 
that truly is the progeny of one of the Betrayer Gods: 
Uk’otoa, a many-eyed leviathan spawn of the Cloaked 
Serpent that is supposedly imprisoned deep beneath 
the Lucidian Ocean. 
NEW CREATURES 
Tal’Dorei is filled with wondrous creatures and 
characters. Whether they prove to be allies or ene- 
mies to the heroes, these beings’ game statistics are 
provided here. These creatures are designed to sup- 
plement the monsters found in the fifth edition core 
rules, not replace them. Tal'Dorei is also filled with 
countless classic monsters, and adventures here will 
incorporate both familiar mythic creatures and the 
unique creatures of Exandria. 
Macic ITEMS IN STAT BLOCKS 
‘Some creatures and NPCs in this section wear or 
wield magic items that increase their power, or that 
give them unique traits usable in or out of combat. 
New magic items are identified as such, and can 
be found in chapter 5 of this book. All other magic 
items can be found in the fifth edition core rules. 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 224 ---
ADRANACH 
An adranach is a winged feline construct made of 
raw arcane energy, fuchsia in hue and flecked with 
stars, Itis an iconic servitor of the League of Mira- 
cles (see page 56), and the exact method of their 
creation is a closely guarded secret known only to 
the Wonderworker who guides that organization and 
the spellwrights who serve them. 
Perfect Obedience. As constructs, adranachs are 
unfailingly loyal servants to the spellwrights who 
created them. To the people of Tal’Dorei, they are 
best known as the creatures that allowed cities razed 
by the Chroma Conclave to be rebuilt in a matter of 
weeks, rather than years. But adranachs are also 
mighty combatants that serve their masters as hunt- 
ers, bodyguards, and even assassins. 
Astral Body. An adranach's body is formed from 
the energy of the Astral Plane. Their claws and face, 
as well as a number of rune-inscribed braces on their 
body, are made of mithral and are necessary to keep 
their form of pure energy from losing cohesion. The 
methods for creating these mithral foundations and 
for binding astral energy to them are known only to 
the Wonderworker (the leader of the League of Mira- 
cles) and the spellwrights who learn from them. 
‘This secret knowledge is granted to worthy spell- 
wrights in the form of an orb of mithral bands, about 
CHAPTER 
6: ALLIES AND ADVERSARIES 
OF TAL’DOREL 
three feet in diameter, called a dormen. As the bands 
are removed and forged into the adranach’s braces 
and mask, the dormen speaks aloud the instruc- 
tions of how to craft an adranach in the magically 
recorded voice of the Wonderworker. 
Mithral Mask. Each adranach has a unique mask 
crafted by its creator as their 
signature. This mask is 
crafted from pure mithral, and is the key to summon- 
ing and dismissing an adranach to a unique pocket 
mension where it can rest and repair itself. When 
not in use, the mask magically shrinks from its true 
size to an easily concealable size fit for a humanoid 
face. Most spellwrights keep this mask in a chest 
stored on the Ethereal Plane with the secret chest 
spell, and only produce the mask when it is time to 
call their adranach forth. 
Master Adranach. The secretive master spell- 
wrights of the League of Miracles are taught how to 
build adranachs of monumental size, with strength 
to match, These legendary constructs are also inev- 
itably outfitted with unique enhancements of their 
creators’ own devising, from upgraded espionage 
tools to the ability to sublimate their starry form and 
travel through the Astral Plane, 
Arcane Nature, An adranach doesn't require air, 
food, drink, or sleep. 
223

--- PAGE 225 ---
TE 
ADRANACH 
Huge construct 
‘Armor Class 17 (natural armor) 
Hit Points 170 (20d12 + 40) 
Speed 40 ft, fly 60 ft. 
STR 
DEX 
CON 
INT 
WIS 
CHA 
23 (+6) 16(+3) 
14(+2) 
86-1) 
140-2) 11(4) 
Saving Throws Str +11, Dex +8 
Skills Athletics +11, Perception +7 
Damage Resistances damage from spells 
Damage Immunities poison; bludgeoning, piercing, and 
slashing from nonmagical attacks 
Condition Immunities charmed, exhaustion, frightened, 
paralyzed, petrified, poisoned 
Senses darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 17 
Languages understands the languages spoken by its 
creator but can’t speak 
Challenge 12 (8,400 XP) 
Profi 
ney Bonus +5 
Arcane Leak. When the adranach is reduced to half 
its hit point maximum (85 hit points), 
its mithral mask 
cracks and its arcane form begins to waver, creating 
a field of unstable magic around it. Any creature that 
starts its tum within 10 feet of the adranach or enters 
that area for the first 
time on a turn takes 10 (346) 
radiant damage. Additionally, if a creature casts a spell 
within this area, it must make a DC 14 ability check 
using its spelicasting ability. On a failure, the spell back- 
fires, consuming the spell slot and dealing 3 (106) force 
damage to the caster for each level of the spell slot that 
was consumed. 
Immutable Form. The adranach is immune to any spell 
or effect that would alter its form. 
Magic Resistance. The adranach has advantage on 
saving throws against spells and other magical effects. 
Magic Weapons. The adranach’s weapon attacks 
are magical 
Powerful Build. The adranach counts as one size larger 
when determining its carrying capacity 
and the weight 
it can push, drag, or lift 
ACTIONS 
Multiattack. The adranach makes two attacks with 
its claws. 
Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, one target, 
reach 5 ft. Hit: 32 (4d12 + 6) slashing damage. 
Force Bolts (Recharge 5-6). The adranach targets up 
to four creatures it can see within 60 feet of it. Each 
target must succeed on a DC 18 Dexterity saving throw 
or take 28 (8d6) force damage. 
224 
TS 
ADRANACH CUSTOMIZATION 
Adranachs are constructs personalized to their 
creators. One of the traits that make a spellwright 
candidate attractive to the League of Miracles is an 
interest in invention, and spellwrights are encour- 
aged to customize any adranach they create. Below 
are some optional features with which spellwrights 
have outfitted their creations. Most adranachs have 
one extra feature, and most master adranachs 
have three. 
Advanced Tracking (Recharges after a Long 
Rest). When a creature fails its saving throw 
against the adranach’s Force Bolts, the adranach 
can mark that creature for the next 24 hours. 
The adranach knows the direction to a creature's 
location as long as they are on the same plane. If 
the creature is moving, the adranach knows the 
direction of this movement. 
Arcane Bond. The adranach’s creator can 
‘communicate with it telepathically while both 
are within 1 mile of each other. As an action, the 
creator can see through the adranach’s eyes and 
hear what it hears until the start of the creator's, 
next turn, gaining the benefits of any special 
senses the adranach has. During this time, the 
creator is deafened and blinded with regard to 
their own senses. 
Astral Form (Master Adranach Only; 
Recharges after a Long Rest). The master adra- 
nach can cast astral projection on itself. 
Slipstream. The adranach can cast invisibil- 
ity on itseff at will. While it is invisible, its speed 
is doubled. 
Truesight (Master Adranach Only). The adra- 
nach has truesight out to a range of 30 feet. As an 
action, it can increase the range ofits truesight to. 
420 feet until the end of its next turn, 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 226 ---
CHAPTER 6: 
MASTER ADRANACH 
Gargantuan construct 
Armor Class 19 (natural armor) 
Hit Points 290 (20420 + 80) 
Speed 60 ft. fly 120 ft 
‘Magic Weapons. The adranach’s weapon attacks 
are magical. 
Colossal Build. The adranach’s carrying capacity is. 
doubled, as is the weight it can push, drag, or lift. 
Slipstream. The adranach can cast invisibility on itself 
at will. While itis invisible, its speed is doubled. 
L 
i 
(2ay). Ifthe adranach fails a 
STR 
25(+7) 
DEX 
16(+3) 
CON 
INT 
19(+4) 
10(+0) 
wis 
14 (+2) 
CHA 
1141) 
saving throws itcan choose to succeed instead. 
ACTIONS 
ic 
The adranach makes three attacks: two 
‘Saving Throws Str +14, Dex +10, Wis #9 
Skills Athletics +14, Perception +16 
Damage Resistances damage from spells 
Damage Immunities poison; bludgeoning, piercing, 
and slashing from nonmagical attacks 
Condition Immunities charmed, exhaustion, 
frightened, paralyzed, petrified, poisoned 
Senses darkvision 360 ft., passive Perception 26 
Languages the languages spoken by its creator 
Challenge 21 (33,000 XP) 
Proficiency Bonus +7 
Arcane Leak. When the adranach is reduced to half 
its hit point maximum (145 hit points), its mithral mask 
cracks and its arcane form begins to waver, creating 
a field of unstable magic around it. Any creature that 
starts its turn within 20 feet of the adranach or enters 
that area for the first time on a turn takes 21 (646) 
radiant damage. Additionally, if a creature casts a spell 
within this area, it must make a DC 18 ability check 
using its spelicasting ability. On a failure, the spell 
backfires, consuming the spell slot and dealing 7 (2d6) 
force damage to the caster for each level of the spell 
slot that was consumed. 
Immutable Form. The adranach is immune to any 
spell or effect that would alter its form. 
Magic Resistance. The adranach has advantage 
on saving throws against spells and other magi- 
cal effects. 
ALLIES AND ADVERSARIES 
OF TAL’DOREL 
with its claws and one with its tail 
Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: +14 to hit, one target, 
reach 5 ft. Hit: 33 (4d12 + 7) slashing damage 
Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +14 to hit, one target, 
reach 15 ft. Hit: 20 (2d12 + 7) bludgeoning damage. 
Force Bolts (Recharge 5-6). The adranach targets up 
to six creatures it can see within 120 feet of it. Each 
target must succeed on a DC 22 Dexterity saving 
throw or take 35 (10d6) force damage. 
LEGENDARY ACTIONS 
The adranach can take 3 legendary actions, choosing 
from the options below. Only one legendary action 
‘option can be used at a time and only at the end of 
another creature's turn. The adranach regains spent 
legendary actions at the start of its turn. 
(Claw Attack. The adranach makes one claw attack. 
Vanish (Costs 2 Actions). The adranach casts invisi- 
bility and moves up to its walking or flying speed. (This 
movement doesn’t benefit from its Slipstream trait) 
Starry Burst (Costs 3 Actions). A burst of astral 
energy flares from the adranach’s body. Each creature 
within 60 feet of it must make a DC 22 Constitution 
saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 27 
(6d10) force damage and is blinded until the end of its 
next turn, On a successful save, the creature takes half 
as much damage and is not blinded. The adranach 
then turns invisible until the start of its next turn or 
until it makes an attack

--- PAGE 227 ---
226 
ASHARI FIRETAMER 
Medium humanoid (any) 
‘Armor Class 17 (red dragon scale mail) 
Hit Points 
92 (1608 + 20) 
Speed 30 ft. 
ASHARI 
A reclusive society of elementalist druidic 
masters, the Ashari symbolize the connection 
between civilization and nature in balance as. 
they govern, heal, and tame Exandria’s primor- 
dial threats. 
‘Mysterious Beginnings. No one knows the 
Ashari’s true origins, though one popular leg- 
end ties directly to the ancient war between the 
gods and the primordial titans. As the Prime 
Deities scattered the essence of their fallen foes 
across Exandria, the titans’ remains birthed 
new Elemental Planes. In response, numerous 
humanoids—who would eventually become 
part of the Ashari—were gifted with a magical 
affinity to shape the world and a responsibility 
to defend against future primordial threats. 
Triumph Divided. A multiracial people, the 
Ashari strategically organize into four distinct 
communities—the Fire Ashari of Pyrah, the 
Air Ashari of Zephrah, the Earth Ashari of 
Terrah, and the Water Ashari of Vesrah. Each 
community builds homes alongside sources of 
elemental power. 
4th level (3 slots): freedom of movement, wall of fire 
5th level (1 slot): conjure elemental 
ACTIONS 
Scimitar. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) slashing damage plus 14 
(4d6) fire damage. 
STR 
DEX 
CON 
INT 
WIS 
CHA 
8-1) 
15(+2) 
14642) 
12(+1) 18 (+4) 
1140) 
Skills Arcana +4, Nature +7 
Damage Resistances fire 
Senses passive Perception 14 
Languages Common, Druidic, Ignan 
Challenge 7 (2,900 XP) 
Proficiency Bonus +3, 
rges 
after a Short 
or Long Rest). 
The firetamer can cest the dominate monster spell 
(save DC 15) on a fire elemental or other elemental 
fire creature. If the creature has 150 or more hit points, 
it has advantage on the saving throw. 
BONUS ACTIONS 
Flameform (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). 
The firetamer can transform into a fire elemental. Its 
game statistics 
are replaced by the statistics of the 
1g. The 
is a 9th-level s 
r. 
Its spelicasting ability is Wisdom (spell save DC 15, 
47 to hit with spell attacks). It has the following druid 
spells prepared: 
Cantrips (at will): druidcraft, mending, produce flame 
(248) 
4st level (4 slots): cure wounds, faerie fire, jump 
2nd level (3 slots): flame biade, heat metal, lesser 
restoration 
3rd level (3 slots): daylight, dispel magic, protection 
from energy 
elemental, but the firetamer retains its alignment, 
personality, and Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma 
scores, and all ofits skill and saving throw profi- 
ciencies. While in this form, the firetamer can’t cast 
spells. When the firetamer is reduced to O hit points, 
falls unconscious, or dies in this form, it reverts to its 
humanoid form. It can remain in flameform for up to 
5 hours or until it reverts to its humanoid form as a 
bonus action 
Druidic Recovery. If the firetamer is in fire elemen- 
tal form using Flameform, it can expend a spell slot 
to regain 108 hit points per level of the spell slot 
expended, 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 228 ---
Primordial Guardians. The 
walls between the Material Plane 
and the Elemental Planes are 
thin, and if those boundaries are 
tested, they tear asunder and 
form rifts. These planar fractures 
hemorrhage vast fields of wildfire, 
avalanches of crushing stone, 
boundless expanses of screeching 
hurricanes, and unending oceans 
of pounding tsunamis, all seem- 
ingly yearning for destruction. 
When an elemental rift grows 
volatile, the Ashari become a living 
dam—subduing, soothing, and 
sealing its escaping power. Then, 
once a rift calms, the Ashari 
work to heal the surrounding 
land begins. 
Seifless Respect. Ashari 
is a 
word found in many languages 
with a multitude of meanings, 
including: sunrise, innate will, 
torchbearer, and gardener. Some 
Ashari greetings include, “The 
Wildmother sees you" and “Your 
actions bring forth light. 
ASHARI SKYDANCER 
‘Medium humanoid (any) 
Armor Class 14 
Hit Points 
63 (1448) 
Speed 30 ft., fly 60 ft. (with skysail) 
STR 
DEX 
CON 
INT 
WIS 
CHA 
10(+0) 18 (+4) 
10(+0) 
 12(+1) 
16(+3) 
11 (+0) 
Saving Throws Dex #7 
Skills Acrobatics 47, Perception +6 
Senses passive Perception 16 
Languages Auran, Common, Druidic 
Challenge 5 (1,800 XP) 
Proficiency Bonus +3, 
Evasion. If the skydancer is subjected to an effect that 
allows it to make a Dexterity saving throw to take only 
half damage, the skydancer instead takes no damage 
ifit succeeds on the saving throw, and only half dam- 
age if it fails. 
Flyby. The skydancer doesn't provoke an opportunity 
attack when it flies out of an enemy's reach 
‘Skysail. The skydancer flies with a special Ashari 
magic item called a skysail (see page 199). While 
CHAPTER 
6: ALLIES AND ADVERSARIES 
OF TAL’DOREL 
the skysail’s wings are extended, the skydancer can 
| 
glide through the air at a speed of 60 feet, but must. 
| 
descend by at least 10 feet at the end of its turn and 
| 
can’t gain altitude. 
| 
Spelicasting. The skydancer is a 3rd-level spelicaster. 
| 
Its spelicasting ability is Wisdom (spell save DC 14, 
+6 to hit with spell attacks). It has the following druid 
| 
spells prepared: 
| 
Cantrips (at will): guidance, shillelagh 
4st level (4 slots): entangle, fog cloud, jump 
2nd level (2 slots): gust of wind, pass without trace 
| 
| 
ACTIONS 
Multiattack. The skydancer makes two skysail 
staff attacks. 
Skysail Staff. Melee Weapon Attack: #7 to hit, reach 5 
ft, one target. Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) bludgeoning damage. If 
the skydancer makes this attack while flying, the tar- 
get must make a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw, taking 
21 (6d6) lightning damage on a failed save, or half as 
much damage on a successful one. 
Fly (1/Day). The skydancer uses its skysail to cast fly 
on itself for up to 1 minute (no concentration required). 
| 
REACTIONS. 
| 
‘Slow Fall. When the skydancer takes falling damage, 
it can reduce the damage by half. 
227

--- PAGE 229 ---
ASHARI FIRETAMER 
Ofall the Ashari tribes, the Fire Ashari of Pyrah 
have suffered the greatest. Their 
people were all 
but destroyed when Thordak burst through the Rift 
of Flame in his cataclysmic return to Exandria. Yet 
despite their immense hardships, the Fire Ashari 
have given selflessly to the people of Tal’Dorei. 
Firetamers are the elite elementalists of the Pyrah, 
using their attunement to the primordial forces of 
the world to not just create fire, not just command 
it, but tame it to their will. A firetamer of Pyrah is 
nothing like the manic pyromancers of Tal’Dorei. For 
while the latter recklessly wields fire as a weapon, 
firetamers use their talent to protect others from 
fire’s destructive power—or wield that same power to 
destroy those who threaten their people. 
Firetamers are almost always accompanied by 
a salamander, a fire elemental, or a small herd of 
magma or smoke mephits. While home in Pyrah, 
Ashari firetamers use their power to control the Rift 
of Flame or to control the flames of the voleanie for- 
est known as the Cindergrove. And on the outskirts 
of Emon, a group of firetamers led by a half-ore 
Ashari named Lorkathar keeps watch over the vola- 
tile Scar of the Cinder King. 
ASHARI SKYDANCER 
Zephrat’s location in the Summit Peaks has 
shielded the Ashari who dwell there from countless 
hardships. Few infringe upon their isolated home, 
and this safety has bred a certain recklessness 
among the Air Ashari. Though they guard their ele- 
mental rift as closely as do the rest of their kin, their 
lack of stoicism and restraint often earns them the 
scorn of the Earth Ashari of Terrah, the only other 
Ashari tribe in Tal'Dorei. 
Air Ashari children learn to fly before they learn to 
walk, accompanying their parents through snow-fa 
tened clouds on Ashari skysails (see page 199). 
But while all in Zephrah love the sensation of flight, 
few hone their skills as rigorously as the skydanc- 
ers. These graceful masters of the wind are at once 
artists, performers, and warriors. They are the 
beloved heroes of their people, both defending them 
in times of danger and bringing them happiness in 
times of peace. 
ASHARI STONEGUARD 
‘The Earth Ashari of Terrah are a stoic people, slow 
to change and more likely to fight defensive battles 
and outlast enemies than wage offensive wars. The 
Terrah stoneguard are the perfect embodiment of 
this ideal, with their druidic training augmented by 
ancient combat techniques that allow them to hold 
fast against a tide of enemies. The stoneguard craft 
arms and armor from the granite around them, 
and their magical stonecraft rivals even that of the 
dwarves. It is said that when elemental armies 
poured into Exandria in mythic times, two legend- 
ary stoneguard protected all of Terrah against that 
onslaught for ten days and ten nights, each standing 
guard while the other rested. 
Today, the stoneguards stand vigilant along key 
defensive points within the Cliffkeep Mountains, 
warding the Terrah tribe against the dwarves of 
Kraghammer. If the stoneguard were ever to falter in 
their vigil, they believe the dwarves would doubt- 
lessly enter their ancestral lands and strip its natural 
beauty in search of wealth and fuel. 
ASHARI WAVERIDER 
The waveriders of Vesrah know firsthand the 
dangers of the open ocean and dedicate their lives 
to protecting seafarers from storms, pirates, and 
sea monsters. They are not warriors, however, but 
rather accomplished healers and aquatic empaths, 
using their powers to seek out and rescue survivors 
of marine disasters. They sometimes bring critically 
wounded survivors to Vesrah, a practice that the 
isolationist Water Ashari condemn for fear that such 
outsiders threaten their way of life. The waverid- 
ers take their peers’ scorn in stride, for they would 
rather be righteous than popular. 
Awaverider turns to violence only as a last resort, 
preferring to fight in their shapechanged fishform 
rather than with harpoon in hand. They use hitand- 
run tactics as a hunter shark or employ their giant 
octopus form's natural camouflage to harry oppo- 
nents. When patrolling 
the open seas, waveriders 
skim across the water on personal waveboards with 
folding sails, similar in function to the skysails of the 
Zephrah (see page 199). 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING REBORN

--- PAGE 230 ---
ASHARI STONEGUARD 
‘Medium humanoid (ony) 
Armor Class 15 (granite half plate) 
Hit Points 152 (16d8 +80) 
Speed 30ft. 
STR 
DEX 
CON 
INT 
wis: 
CHA 
18(+4) 
10(+0) 20(+5) 10(+0) 14(+2) 
9(-1) 
Saving Throws Str +7, Con +8, Wis +! 
Skills Athletics +7, Intimidation +2 
Condition Immunities petrified 
‘Senses tremorsense 30 ft., passive Perception 12 
Languages Common, Druidic, Terran 
Challenge 7 (2,900 XP) 
Proficiency Bonus +3 
Spellcasting. The stoneguard is a 3rd-level spell- 
caster. Its spelicasting ability is Wisdom (spell save 
DC 13, +5 to hit with spell attacks). It has the following 
druid spells prepared 
CHAPTER 6: ALLIES AND ADVERSARIES 
OF TALDOREL 
Cantrips (at will: druidcraft, resistance 
1st level (4 slots): goodberry, speak with animals, 
thunderwave 
2nd level (2 slots): hold person, spike growth 
ACTIONS 
Multiattack. The stoneguard makes three granite 
maul attacks. 
Granite Maul. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, 
reach 5 ft., 
one target. Hit: 11 (246 + 4) bludgeoning 
damage. If the attack hits, the stoneguard can also 
immediately cast thunderwave as a bonus action. This 
casting uses a spell slot but requires no components. 
REACTIONS 
Sentinel. When a creature within 5 feet of the 
stoneguard attacks a target other than the 
stoneguard, the stoneguard can make one attack 
against that creature. 
Skin to Stone. When the stoneguard is attacked, it 
gains resistance 
to bludgeoning, piercing, and slash- 
ing damage from nonmagical attacks until the end of 
the attacker's turn,

--- PAGE 231 ---
230 
ASHARI WAVERIDER 
‘Medium humanoid (any) 
Armor Class 14 (hide armor of cold resistance) 
Hit Points 77 (14d8 + 14) 
Speed 30 ft. 
STR 
DEX 
CON 
INT 
WIS 
CHA 
15(+2) 14(+2) 
12 (#1) 
1040) 16(43) 
13.(+4) 
Saving Throws Con +4, Wis +6 
Skills Athletics +8, Nature +3 
Damage Resistances cold 
Senses passive Perception 13 
Languages Aquan, Common, Druidic 
Challenge 5 (1,800 XP) 
Proficiency Bonus +3, 
1st level (4 slots): create or destroy water, cure 
wounds, healing word 
2nd level (3 slots): animal messenger, lesser 
restoration, moonbeam 
3rd level (3 slots): conjure animals (aquatic beasts 
only), water breathing, water walk 
Ath level (1 slot}: contro! water 
ACTIONS 
Harpoon. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, 
reach 5 
ft, range 20/60 
ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d10 + 
2) piercing damage. If the target is a Large or smaller 
creature, it must succeed on a Strength contest 
against the waverider or be pulled up to 20 feet 
toward the waverider. Attacks with this weapon made 
while underwater do not have disadvantage. 
REACTIONS 
Healing Tides. Whenever the waverider casts a spell 
of 1st level or higher that affects a nonhostile creature, 
that creature regains 3 hit points (in addition to any 
healing the spell may provide). 
Marine Empathy. The waverider can speak with and 
understand aquatic plants and animals. 
Spelcasting. The waverider is a 7th-level spelicaster. 
Its spelicasting ability is Wisdom (spell save DC 14, 
+6 
to hit with spell attacks). It has the following druid 
spells prepared: 
Cantrips (at will: druidcraft, poison spray (2412), 
resistance 
'ges 
after 
a Short or Long Rest). 
The waverider can transform into a hunter shark ora 
giant octopus. Its game statistics are replaced by the 
statistics of the chosen creature, but the waverider 
retains its alignment, personality, and Intelligence, 
Wisdom, and Charisma scores. It also retains its skill 
proficiencies, in addition to gaining those of the crea- 
ture it transforms into. When the waverider is reduced 
to Ohit points, falls unconscious, or dies in this form, it 
reverts to its humanoid form. it can remain in fishform 
for up to 3 hours or until it reverts to its humanoid 
form as a bonus action. 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 232 ---
a 
TT 
CINDERSLAG ELEMEN 
Large elemental 
‘Armor Class 15 (natural armor) 
Hit Points 102 (12d10 + 36) 
Speed 20 
ft., burrow 
40 ft. 
STR 
DEX 
15(+2) 12 (+1) 
CON 
INT 
wis 
173) 
1-5) 10 (#0) 
CHA 
3-4) 
Damage Resistances bludgeoning, piercing, and 
slashing from 
nonmagical attacks 
Damage Immunities fire, poison 
Condition Immunities exhaustion, grappled, paralyzed, 
petrified, poisoned, prone, restrained, unconscious 
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 10 
Languages — 
Challenge 8 (3,900 XP) 
Proficiency Bonus +3 
Searing Presence. Any creature that starts its 
turn within 5 feet of the elemental takes 5 (1410) 
fire damage. 
Molten Form. The elemental can move through a space 
{as narrow as 1 inch wide without squeezing. In addition, 
the elemental can enter a hostile creature’s space and 
stop there. The first time it enters a creature’s space 
ona turn, that creature takes 5 (1d10) fire damage and 
must succeed on a DC 14 Strength saving throw or be 
restrained. A creature that starts its tum restrained in 
this way takes 5 (1d10) fire damage. It can repeat the 
saving throw at the end of each of its turns, freeing 
itself on a success. 
Water Susceptibility. For every 5 feet the elemental 
moves in water, or for every gallon of water splashed on 
it, it takes 1 cold damage. 
ACTIONS 
Multiattack. The elemental makes two slam attacks. 
Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 12 (3d6 + 2) bludgeoning damage plus 5 
(110) fire damage. If the target is a creature or a flam- 
mable object, it ignites. Until a creature takes an action 
to douse the fire, the target takes 5 (1d10) fire damage 
at the start of each of its turns. 
Molten Gaze. Ranged Spell Attack: +8 to hit, range 
30 ft., one target. Hit: 21 (6d6) fire damage, and the 
target must succeed on a DC 14 Constitution saving 
throw or have one nonmagical item of the elemental’s 
choice that the target is carrying instantly melt or burn 
to cinders. 
Dd 
CHAPTER 6: ALLIES AND ADVERSARIES 
OF TALDOREL 
CINDERSLAG ELEMENTA! 
Cinderslag elementals are pure manifestations of 
the hatred and furor of the deceased Cinder King, 
Thordak. Even after his death, the fires of that great 
red dragon continue to ravage Emon, as places 
scorched by his corrupting flames are transformed 
into vitriolic pits of slag and ash that spawn mindless 
creatures of elemental destruction, Though Thor- 
dak’s Crater in Emon has mostly been healed by the 
Fire Ashari of Pyrah, the terrible fires still churning 
beneath the city give rise to cinderslag elementals, 
as do other areas where the Cinder King’s elemental 
devastation has left an indelible mark, including the 
ruins of Serpent's Head in the Cliffkeep Mountains 
and the Ashen Gorge in the Stormerest Mountains, 
Gaze of Annihilation. A cinderslag elemental’s 
Molten Gaze unleashes incredible power that can 
melt steel and stone with a glance. If one of these 
creatures is allowed to focus its gaze for long per 
ods, or if several elementals work in unison, entire 
Cities can easily be leveled in a tide of molten stone. 
Fortunately for the people of Emon, Thordak’s ele- 
mental spawn are mindless and 
incapable of unified 
action—as long as no one is able to bend these crea- 
tures to their will. 
231

--- PAGE 233 ---
232 
CLASP OPERATIVES 
Members of the Clasp—a stealthy organization of 
spies, thieves, assassins, and smugglers—are at once 
beloved folk heroes worthy of bardsong and bedtime 
stories, and sinister scoundrels whose deeds are 
the stuff of infamous legend. While definitely in the 
business of discreetly performing illegal deeds for 
the wealthy, Clasp operatives are also known as 
the roguish heroes who saved countless common 
folk of Tal'Dorei during the Cinder King’s tyranny. 
‘They style their brand now as the “clasp” that holds 
society together—understanding that, after all, 
an 
organized criminal syndicate requires a functioning, 
civilized economy. 
CLASP CUTTHROAT 
When the thieves and assassins of the Clasp need to 
acquire additional funds or relieve certain people of 
their possessions, the organization's cutthroats are 
the first to be called. However, the Clasp didn’t earn 
an extraordinary customer satisfaction rating by 
letting just any scoundrel claim the rank of cutthroat. 
An effective cutthroat is patient and precise. Sneak 
in, take cover, wait, strike only with advantage, and 
fight without honor. If spotted, misdirect by fleeing— 
then regain a strategic position, and attack when they 
least expect it. 
CLASP ENFORCER 
The Clasp prefers to operate in the shadows, but 
sometimes blackmail targets need convincing. 
Whenever a scare or a show of force is needed, the 
Clasp's enforcers make quite an impression. An 
enforcer values promises and debt repayment nearly 
as much as profit, so any who break agreements with 
the Clasp are sure to earn a visit from one. “Want to 
know exactly what enforcers enforce?” is a popular 
Clasp one-liner—before the operative delivering the 
joke switches from telling to showing. 
Hard to hit and harder to kill, enforcers enjoy run- 
ning up to targets with hammers swinging, inspiring 
a healthy dose of intimidation in anyone lacking the 
wisdom to pay up or run. 
When night is come and darkness falls, 
Locks help not, nor do stone walls. 
Slinking and hiding, like poison asp; 
Clo: 
tight thy eyes, 
— CHILDREN'S REYNE 
ee not the Clasp. 
CLASP CUTTHROAT 
‘Medium humanoid (any) 
Armor Class 15 (leather) 
Hit Points 
44 (8d8 + 8) 
Speed 30. 
STR 
DEX 
CON 
INT 
WIS 
CHA 
10(+0) 18(+4) 
12(+1) 
8-1) 
14¢2) 
9(-1) 
Saving Throws Dex +6 
Skills Deception +3, Stealth +8 
Senses passive Perception 12 
Languages Common, thieves’ cant 
Challenge 3 (700 xP) 
Proficiency Bonus +2 
Sneak Attack (1/Turn). The cutthroat deals an extra 
14 (4d6) damage when it hits a target with a weapon 
attack and has advantage on the attack roll, or when 
the target is within 5 feet of an ally of the cutthroat 
that isn’t incapacitated and the cutthroat doesn’t have 
disadvantage on the attack roll. 
ACTIONS 
Multiattack. The cutthroat makes two shortsword or 
dagger attacks, 
Shortsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 
ft., one target. Hit: 7 (146 + 4) piercing damage. 
Dagger. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, 
reach 5 ft,, range 20/60 
ft., one target. Hit: 6 (104 + 4) 
piercing damage. 
BONUS ACTIONS, 
Cunning Action. The cutthroat can take the Dash, Dis- 
engage, or Hide action. 
REACTIONS. 
Uncanny Dodge. The cutthroat halves the damage that, 
it takes from an attack that hits it. The cutthroat must be 
able to see the attacker. 
NAAR 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 234 ---
se we of the Clasp are heroes these days does 
ssmean we won't slit your throat in a heartbeat if you cross 
mean much when you're down here in the Grotto. 
_ 
SETHRUDE LAEL, CLASP CUTTHROAT 
CLASP ENFORCER 
the enforcer until the end of the target's next turn. The 
hagieve esa 
enforcer and its allies have advantage on attack rolls, 
7 
against any creature frightened in this way. If a crea- 
ture’s saving throw is successful or the effect ends for 
Armor Class 16 (half plate) 
it, the creature is immune to the enforcer’s Intimidating 
2 
Hit Points 102 (1208 + 48) 
Presence for the next 24 hours. 
Speed 30 ft 
‘Second Wind (Recharges after a Short 
or Long 
SS 
Rest). As a bonus action, the enforcer can regain 12 
STR 
DEX 
CON 
INT 
WIS 
CHA 
hit points. 
16(43) 
12(+ 
(+ 
1) 
(+ 
( 
63) 
12(1) 184) 
8-1) 
11040) 
14442) 
AGHONS 
Skills Athletics +6, Intimidation +8 
Multiattack. The enforcer makes three warham- 
Senses passive Perception 10 
Mer attacks: 
Languages Common, thieves’ cant 
Warhammer. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 
Challenge 5 (1,800 XP) 
Proficiency Bonus +3 
ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1410 + 3) bludgeoning damage. 
BONUS ACTIONS 
Intimidating Presence. Whenever the enforcer hits a 
‘Second Wind (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). 
creature with a melee attack, the target must succeed 
The enforcer regains 12 hit points. 
on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or be frightened of 
CHAPTER 
6: ALLIES AND ADVERSARIES 
OF TAL'DOREL 
Siig 
233

--- PAGE 235 ---
COLD SNAP SPIRIT 
A number of elves and archmagi still live who 
remember the Icelost Years—a dark time in 
Tal'Dore’’s history, when legions of ice-rimed war- 
riors spilled forth from the Elemental Planes, intent 
on turning the world into a gelid wasteland. Cold 
snap spirits are a surviving echo of the vast armies 
of the cruel elemental Errevon the 
Rimelord, who 
nearly claimed Tal’Dorei for his own. They linger in 
the ever-frozen forests of the Frostweald, atop the 
snow-capped peaks of the Cliffkeep Mountains, and 
amid the arctic plains of the Neverfields. 
Reclusive Spirits. When separated from the 
malign command of an elemental warlord, cold snap 
spirits are little more than animalistic creatures of 
instinct. They drift harmlessly about cold regions of 
the Material Plane that mirror the 
interminable frost 
of their plane of origin. 
Heated Hatred. Normally docile cold snap spirits 
are driven into a terrible frenzy by the presence of 
heat. They have an instinctive fear of flame, and even 
the warmth of living creature can be enough to 
drive them into a murderous rage. Once the source 
of heat is annihilated, a cold snap spirit rapidly 
returns to a state of calm ambivalence. 
Inchoate Berserkers. Cold snap spirits make 
excellent soldiers for elemental beings with ambition 
and the will to dominate. Their aversion to warm 
climes is quickly overridden by loyalty to their com- 
mander, and the ambient heat of even a temperate 
region is enough to drive them to a state of con- 
stant frenzy. 
oh: 
ase 
f 
\ 
be 
Ges 
ie 
aoe 
Ss 
COLD SNAP SPIRIT 
‘Medium elemental 
Armor Class 18 (natural armor) 
Hit Points 
78 (12d8 + 24) 
Speed 30 tt, fly 30 ft 
STR 
DEX 
CON 
INT 
WIS 
CHA 
10(+0) 20(+5) 
14(+2) 
2-4 
7-2) 
3-4) 
Saving Throws Dex #8, Wis +1 
Skills Perception +1, Stealth +8. 
Damage Resistances slashing and piercing from 
nonmagical attacks 
Damage Immunities cold, poison 
Damage Vulnerabilities fire 
Condition immunities charmed, frightened, poisoned, 
paralyzed, stunned 
Senses darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 11 
Languages — 
Challenge 5 (1,800 XP) 
Proficiency Bonus +3 
‘Sense Heat. The cold snap spirit can sense heat within 
60 feet of it 
Frozen Aura. Any creature that starts its turn within 5 
feet of a cold snap spirit takes 5 (1410) cold damage. 
Jealous Spirit. If the spirit attacks a creature that is 
within 5 feet of another cold snap spirit, the attack 
deals an extra 10 (346) cold damage on a hit. 
ACTIONS 
Consume Warmth, Melee Spell Attack: +8 to hit, reach 
5 ft, one target. Hit: 21 (6d6) cold damage, and the 
target's speed is halved until the end of the spirit’s 
next turn, 
‘Subzero Wave (1/Day). Each creature within 30 feet 
of the cold snap spirit must make a DC 15 Constitution 
saving throw, taking 18 (4d8) cold damage on a failed 
save, or half as much damage on a successful one. 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 236 ---
CYCLOPS STORMCALLER 
‘When cyclopes are born beneath a raging storm, 
they sometimes grow up different—smaller than the 
rest, sickly and weak. Most of these stormborn cyclo- 
pes are relentlessly bullied and beaten for their tiny 
stature, and many die before adulthood. Those who 
survive do so because of the magic the Stormlord 
has bestowed upon them—intentionally or otherwise. 
As cyclopes are generally unfamiliar with magic, the 
power ofa stormcaller awes and terrifies them, and 
many see stormcallers as nothing short of the ma 
festation of 
a god. 
Storm Worship. Their fellow cyclopes may 
assume that the might of a stormcaller is akin to 
godliness, but many stormcallers hunger for greater 
power. A cabal of stormcallers regularly gathers in 
the Daggerbay Mountains at an ancient elven temple 
called the Skyneedle (in Elvish, ira'fallai; in Giant, 
“Tall Zappo-Zappo"). There, they conduct strange 
rituals to commune with an entity they call the Eye of 
the Storm—and with every ritual, their power grows. 
However, the Eye of the Storm is no avatar of 
the Stormlord, but a vengeful storm giant named 
Eyvindr, who's posing as a demigod and intent on 
raising an army to exact retribution on the Coun- 
cil of Seven Scepters. He'll have to risk revealing 
himself 
to the stormeallers eventually—but not until 
he believes that his control over his cyclops devotees 
is absolute. 
CycLops STORMCALL 
Large giant 
‘Armor Class 18 (chain mail, cloak 
of protection, ring of, 
protection) 
Hit Points 114 (12d10 + 48) 
‘Speed 30 
ft., fly 60 ft. (stormy conditions only) 
sTR 
16 (+3) 
DEX 
10(+0) 
CON 
18 (+4) 
INT 
15(+2) 
wis 
8(-1) 
CHA 
20(+5) 
‘Saving Throws Str +5, Dex +2, Con +6, Int +4, Wis 
+5,Cha +11 
Skills Arcana +6 
Senses passive Perception 9 
Languages Common, Elvish, Giant 
Challenge 10(5,900 XP) 
__Proficiency Bonus +4 
One-Eyed. The cyclops has disadvantage on any 
attack roll against a target more than 30 feet away. 
CHAPTER 
LLIES AND ADVERSARIES 
OF TAL’DOREL 
‘Storm Wings. While outdoors in stormy conditions, 
the cyclops has a flying speed of 60 feet. 
‘Supernatural Focus. The cyclops has advantage on 
Constitution saving throws made to maintain con- 
centration on spells, and cannot lose concentration 
because of turbulent weather. 
Innate Spellcasting. The cyclops’s innate spelicasting 
ability is Charisma (spell save DC 17, +9 
to hit with 
spell attacks). The cyclops can innately cast the fol- 
lowing spells, requiring no material components: 
At will: ray of frost (348), water walk 
3iday each: ice storm, sleet storm, wind wall 
‘Alday each: control weather, storm of vengeance 
ACTIONS 
Multiattack. The cyclops makes two ice claw attacks. 
Ice Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., 
one target. Hit: 13 (3d6 + 3) slashing damage plus 3 
(146) cold damage. 
ira ese 
seas 
235

--- PAGE 237 ---
DEMONFEED SPIDER 
These monstrous spiders, the spawn of the divine 
Spider Queen, lurk in the darkest recesses of the 
world. They have gorged themselves on the ichor of 
demons since the earliest days of the Calamity, when 
demons were slain 
in such quantity that the subterra- 
nean depths were awash with their foul blood. 
Monstrosities Transformed. Demonfeed spiders 
are terrible fiends as a result of having supped upon 
the remains of demons, but all are descended from the 
‘overlarge spiders that haunt caverns and forests across 
Tal'Dorei. As such, most are native to the Material 
Plane, so that once killed, they are slain forever—unlike 
fiends that are simply banished to their home plane. 
“It 
was poor guidance that left us wandering 
through that sulfurous nest of web and ash, 
but it was cruel fate that woke the matron 
beast and her brood of burning blood. The 
on stand before you today is 
se I halithe wisdom to run. 
Endless Hunger. No sustenance is more delecta- 
ble to a demonfeed spider than the ichor remaining 
behind after a demon has been slain on the Material 
Plane. However, in the absence of such remains, 
they will sate themselves on the fluids of any living 
creature. 
Toxic Blood. The terrible poison of spiders, when 
mixed with the vile ichor of demons, becomes the 
demonfeed spider's most potent weapon. When its 
chitinous hide is pierced and its blood begins to flow, 
the spider can expel arcing sprays of caustic blood 
that seep into the exposed flesh of its attackers. 
Alignment. Chaotic evil. 
TAL’DORE! CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 238 ---
DEMONFEED SPIDER 
Large fiend 
Armor Class 16 (natural armor) 
Hit Points 
75 (1010 +20) 
‘Speed 40 
ft., climb 
40 ft. 
STR 
DEX 
16(+3) 16 (+4) 
CON 
INT 
wis: 
15 (+2) 
6(-2) 
10 (+0) 
CHA 
6(2) 
‘Saving Throws Dex #7 
Skills Perception +3, Stealth +7 
Damage Resistances cold. fire, lightning 
Damage Immuniti 
Condition Immunities poisoned 
Senses darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 13, 
Languages — 
Challenge 8 (3,900 XP) 
Proficiency Bonus +3 
Spider Climb. The spider can climb difficult surfaces, 
including upside down on ceilings, without needing to 
make an ability check, 
Web Walker. The spider ignores movement restr 
tions caused by webbing, 
ACTIONS 
Multiattack. The spider makes two melee attacks: 
‘one with its bite and one with its stinger; or the spider 
can make one attack with its web spinner followed by 
a melee attack. 
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 8 (1410 + 3) piercing damage, and the 
DEMONFEED SPIDERLING 
‘Medium fiend 
Armor Class 13 (natural armor) 
Hit Points 16 (308 + 3) 
Speed 30 t., climb 30t 
STR 
DEX 
10(+0) 12(+1) 
CON 
INT 
WIS 
12(+1) 
2-4) 
-7(-2) 
CHA 
3(-4) 
Saving Throws Dex +3 
Skills Perception +0, Stealth +5 
Damage Resistances cold, fire, lightning 
Damage Immuni 
Condition Immunities poisoned 
target must make a DC 14 Constitution saving throw. 
‘Ona failed save, the target takes 27 (6d8) poison 
damage and is poisoned for 1 minute. On a successful 
save, the target takes half as much damage and isn’t 
poisoned. If this poison damage reduces the target 
to 0 hit points, the target is stable but poisoned for 1 
hour, even after regaining hit points, and is paralyzed 
while poisoned in this way. 
‘Stinger. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., 
‘one target. Hit: 9 (1412 + 3) piercing damage, and the 
target must succeed on a DC 14 Constitution saving 
throw or be paralyzed for 1 minute. The target can 
repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, 
ending the effect on itself on a success. 
Web Spinner. Ranged Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 
40 ft, one target. Hit: The target is pulled 40 feet 
toward the spider and is grappled (escape DC 14). The 
spider can grapple only one creature at a time in this 
way. As an action, the spider can cocoon a creature it 
has grappled in webbing, causing it to be restrained 
and ending the grappled condition 
REACTIONS 
Arterial Spray. When the spider takes damage while 
below half its hit point maximum, it can spray poison- 
‘ous blood ina 15-foot cone. Each creature in the area 
must make a DC 14 Constitution saving throw. On a 
failed save, a creature takes 13 (348) poison damage 
and is poisoned for 1 minute. On a successful save, 
the creature takes half as much damage and isn’t 
poisoned. If this poison damage reduces a creature to 
Ohit points, the creature is stable but poisoned for 1 
hour, even after regaining hit points, and is paralyzed 
while poisoned in this way. 
Senses darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 10 
Languages — 
Challenge 1 (200 XP) 
Proficiency Bonus +2 
Spider Climb. The spiderling can climb difficult, 
surfaces, including upside down on ceilings, without 
needing to make an ability check. 
Web Walker. The spiderling ignores movement 
restrictions caused by webbing. 
‘ACTIONS 
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 5 (1d8 
+ 1) piercing damage, and the target 
must make a DC 13 Constitution saving throw, taking 
10 (3d6) poison damage on a failed save, or half as 
much damage on a successful one. 
CHAPTER 6: ALLIES AND ADVERSARIES 
OF TALDOREL 
237

--- PAGE 239 ---
EMBER Roc 
Gargantuan monstrosity 
Armor Class 14 (natural armor) 
Hit Points 232 (16020 + 64) 
‘Speed 20 t.,fly 120 ft. 
STR 
DEX 
CON 
INT 
WIS 
CHA 
26 (+8) 10(+0) 
18 (+4) 
4-3) 
11(+0) 
9-1) 
EMBER ROC 
Centuries old, birthed by pri 
mordial chaos, and equaling 
the oldest dragons in size, 
the ember rocis an engine of 
ruthless consumption. With 
wingspans vast enough to blot 
out the sky and auras bright 
enough to rival the sun, these 
fiery birds of prey hunt only the 
deadliest game. 
Evolutionary 
Fire. The Fire Ashari 
of Pyrah believe that the mythic rocs that 
ave rise to the ember rocs maintain balance 
in Tal’Dorei. Rocs avoid humanoid settlements 
and hunt the monstrous creatures that would oth- 
erwise threaten those settlements. So the Ashari 
lure rocs to sites of elemental rifts, enticing them 
to devour creatures attempting to escape into 
the Material Plane. After years of feeding on fire 
elementals, salamanders, fire giants, and more, 
a roc is imbued with primordial power, flames 
erupting from every feather to transform it into the 
ember roc. 
Hopeless Ends. An ember roc patiently 
observes prey for hours before it strikes, snatching 
up elephants, whales, and even young dragons. 
It unleashes iron talons to grapple targets, paying 
no heed to counterattacks, then soars back to its 
nest—often inside an active volcano. If prey proves 
too much trouble while 
in flight, an ember roc 
readily drops it from some great height. But those 
unable to escape slowly roast in the creature's 
fiery grip. 
‘Searing Presence. Any creature that starts its turn 
within 5 feet of the roc takes 7 (2d6) fire damage. 
Mumination. The roc sheds bright light in a 40-foot 
radius and dim light for an additional 40 feet. 
ACTIONS 
Multiattack. The roc makes two attacks: one with its 
beak and one with its talons. 
Beak. Melee Weapon Attack: +13 to hit, reach 10 ft., 
‘one target. Hit: 26 (4d8 + 8) piercing damage and 7 
‘Saving Throws Dex +5, Con +9, Wis #5, Cha +4 
Skills Perception +5 
Damage Immunities fire 
Senses passive Perception 15 
Languages understands Ignan but can't speak 
Challenge 14 (11,500 XP) __ Proficiency Bonus +5 
Keen Sight. The roc has advantage on Wisdom (Per- 
ception) checks that rely on sight. 
(2d6) fire 
damage. 
Talons. Melee Weapon Attack: +13 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 22 (4d6 + 8) slashing damage and 7 
(2d6) fire damage. 
Infemo (Recharge 5-6). The roc beats its wings, 
creating a swirling conflagration. Each creature within 
30 feet of the roc must succeed on a DC 18 Dexterity 
saving throw or take 21 (6d6) fire damage. 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 240 ---
GOLEMS 
Ageless and unstoppable guardians, golems are 
expertly crafted to execute their owners’ every 
‘command without question. Vaguely humanoid in 
appearance and unfailingly loyal, these powerful 
constructs feel no agony or sympathy, require no 
sustenance or sleep, ignore bribes and bargains, and 
do as they are told without remorse or hesitation. 
Covetous Origins. During the Age of Arcanum, 
magic inspired a deep arrogance in many of the 
gods’ children, who assumed arcane gifts were proof 
of inevitable divinity. In response, many mortal folk 
experimented with manufactu 
” of their own. 
The dwarves succeeded first, marrying divine gifts 
with technical skill to animate autonomous wardens 
as protectors of their ancestral halls. The dwarves’ 
knowledge was quickly stolen and expanded upon by 
other folk, and creating golems eventually became 
less about proving that mortals can shape life as the 
gods do, and more about protecting life, wealth, and 
secrets from others. 
COBALT GOLEM 
A unique form ofa classic arcane construct, cobalt 
golems are mighty armored servitors made by 
arcanists who find iron too mundane a metal. The 
first seeds of these automata fall from the sky, with 
raw cobalt carefully extracted from meteorites and 
smelted by way of ferromagnetic alchemy into a hard, 
lustrous, silver-gray metal. This finished cobalt is 
then molded and twisted into armored skin shielding 
clockwork designs that animate rune-encrusted mus- 
cle-like chains. A central lodestone powers a cobalt 
golem, fueled by magic rituals that spark ionized life 
within its 
inorganic shell. 
Archivists’ Automata, The Library of the Cobalt 
Soul has commissioned a large number of cobalt 
golems to guard their most restricted archives, 
taking 
pleasure in the serendipitous nature of the 
construct's name and trusting the threat of these 
powerful warriors to deter anyone thinking of fleeing 
with sacred knowledge. 
FORGE GUARDIAN 
Just as dwarves created the earliest golems, the 
All-Hammer fashioned forge guardians to guard the 
divine furnaces and hearths that designed the first 
dwarves. Shaped from extravagant marble and fused 
with adamantine, crafted with impeccable detail and 
care, these rare and massive constructs exemplify 
the highest form of artistry that every Exandrian 
blacksmith, forgemaster, and artisan spends a life- 
time hoping 
to achieve. 
Divine Spark. A faceless, tireless being 
of 
immense strength, a forge golem is gifted life by 
CHAPTER 
6: ALLIES AND ADVERSARIES 
OF TAL’DOREL 
a single shard from the All Hammer's own divine 
spark, lovingly kept safe inside a ring of arcane flame 
and ancient sigils. The All-Hammer's divinity is akin 
toa volcano inside the golem, turning the construct’s 
blood into lava. Fire no longer harms the construct, 
but instead heals it. 
Sacred Purpose. Where it looms over a divine 
forge, a forge guardian's appendages end ina 
stretched set of hooked forceps anda rune-adorned 
blade. The golem can assist a blacksmith in creating 
new golems, or it can trample, bludgeon, push, and 
knock down any who threaten this sacred process 
of creation. 
Forge golems also serve as opponents for any 
wishing to engage in the All-Hammer's trial of wor- 
thiness. A golem’s attacks blind prospective heroes, 
who must then earn back their vision by risking a 
deadly counterattack. 
MAGE HUNTER GOLEM 
The gods cursed mortals with free will, but also 
blessed them with the means to survive the P1 
mordials’ wrath—the arts of magic. With magi 
the people of Exandria fend off droughts, famines, 
volcanic flame, slashing ice, and angry earth. But 
knowing that the power 
of magic might inevitably 
tear Exandria apart, the gods also created the ul 
mate magical failsafe—antimagic. 
Hunter of Magic. For many heroes who employ 
magic, the most terrifying nightmare is facing a 
hulking creature whose mere presence can strip 
away the power of spells and magic relics alike. 
Mage hunter golems are brutally efficient in their 
tactics, sweeping the battlefield with their disruptive 
antimagic, devouring spells used against them, and 
fitting collars to spellcasters that can leave them at 
the golem’s mercy. 
PLATINUM GOLEM 
This animated construct plated in precious platinum 
is the primary choice of prestigious mages and para- 
noid dragons to guard their most precious treasures. 
Its clanking footsteps make its approach audible to 
all intruders, who should recognize that fleeing is 
the best option: for the golem’s form is nigh-invul- 
nerable, and its mighty fists can obliterate life with a 
single blow. 
Devoted Guardians. Their creators fashion pl 
num golems from the spirits of indomitable warriors 
who died failing to protect what they loved most. 
This final regret fuels the golem’s need to execute its 
master’s orders to perfection. Temples of the Plat- 
inum Dragon also craft these golems using divine 
rituals and imbue them with the unflinching devotion 
to justice epitomized by their god. 
239

--- PAGE 241 ---
COBALT GOLEM 
Huge construct 
Armor Class 21 (natural armor) 
Hit Points 300 (2412+ 144) 
Speed 40 ft 
STR 
DEX 
CON 
INT 
WIS 
CHA 
28(+9) 
9(-1) 
 22(+6) 
3-4) 
11(+0) 
 1(-5) 
Damage Immunities fire, lightning, poison, psychic; 
bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing from nonmagical 
weapons that aren't adamantine 
Condition Immunities charmed, exhaustion, 
frightened, paralyzed, petrified, poisoned 
Senses darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 10 
Languages understands the languages of its creator 
but can't speak 
Challenge 18 (18,000 XP) _ 
Proficiency Bonus +6 
Conductive Body. Whenever the golem is subjected 
to lightning damage, it takes no damage. Instead, its 
weapon attacks deal an extra 11 (2410) lightning dam- 
age until the end of its next tum. Also until the end of 
the golem’s next turn, any creature that touches it or 
hits it with a melee attack while within 5 feet of it takes 
11 (2d10) lightning damage. 
Immutable Form. The golem is immune to any spell or 
effect that would alter its form. 
Magic Resistance. The golem has advantage on sav- 
ing throws against spells and other magical effects. 
Magic Weapons. The golem’s weapon attacks 
are magical. 
ACTIONS 
Multiattack. The golem makes two attacks: one with 
its slam and one with its sword, or it uses its Magnetic 
Pulse and then its Spinning Cleave. 
Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +15 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 25 (3410 + 9) bludgeoning damage. 
Sword. Melee Weapon Attack: +15 to hit, reach 10 ft, 
one target. Hit: 28 (3412 +9) slashing damage. 
Spinning Cleave. The golem makes a sword attack 
against each creature within 10 feet of it. 
Magnetic Pulse (Recharge 6). The golem raises its 
arms and unleashes a magnetic pulse. All unattended 
metal objects within 30 feet of it are pulled to an unoc- 
cupied space within 5 feet of the golem. Each creature 
wearing metal armor or made of metal within 30 feet 
of the golem must succeed on a DC 20 Strength sav- 
ing throw or be pulled to an unoccupied space within 
5 feet of the golem, 
then fall prone. 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 242 ---
FORGE GUARDIAN 
Gargantuon construct 
Armor Class 24 (natural armor) 
Hit Points 420 (24420 + 168) 
Speed 50t 
STR 
DEX 
CON 
INT 
WIS 
CHA 
30(H10) 10(+1) 
240-7) 
3-4 1140) 15) 
Saving Throws Str +18, Con 15 
Damage Immunities 
fire, poison, psychic; 
bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing from nonmagical 
weapons that aren't adamantine 
Condition Immunities charmed, exhaustion, 
frightened, paralyzed, petrified, poisoned 
Senses truesight 120 ft., passive Perception 10 
Languages — 
Challenge 27 (105,000 XP) 
Proficiency Bonus +8 
Fire Absorption. Whenever the guardian is subjected 
to fire damage, it takes no damage and instead 
regains a number of hit points equal to the fire 
damage dealt. 
Immutable Form. The guardian is immune to any spell 
or effect that would alter its form. 
Magic Resistance. The guardian has advantage 
‘on saving throws against spells and other magi- 
cal effects. 
Magic Weapons. The guardian's weapon attacks 
are magical 
ACTIONS 
Multiattack. The guardian makes two melee attacks. 
Runeblade. Melee Weapon Attack: +18 to hit, reach 
45 ft, one target. Hit: 36 (4d12 + 10) slashing damage, 
and the target must succeed on a DC 23 Constitution 
saving throw or be blinded until it deals damage to 
the guardian. 
Kick, Melee Weapon Attack: +18 to hit, reach 10 ft 
one target. Hit: 23 (2412 + 10) bludgeoning damage, 
‘and the target is pushed up to 15 feet away from the 
guardian and knocked prone. 
Bladestorm (Recharge 5-6). The guardian makes a 
Runeblade attack against every creature within 15 
1} 
feet of it. On ahit, a targets also pushed up to 15 feet 
9} 
away from the guardian and knocked prone. 
CHAPTER 6: ALLIES AND ADVERSARIES OF TALDOREL 
LEGENDARY ACTIONS 
The guardian can take 3 legendary actions, choosing 
from the options below. Only one legendary action 
option can be used ata time and only at the end of 
another creature's turn. The guardian regains spent 
legendary actions at the start of its turn. 
Runeblade. The guardian makes one 
Runeblade attack 
Kick. The guardian makes one Kick attack. 
Trample (Costs 2 Actions). The guardian moves up 
to 50 feet without triggering opportunity attacks, and 
can pass through other creature's spaces. Each crea- 
ture whose space the guardian passes through must 
make a DC 23 Dexterity saving throw. On a failure, the 
creature takes 23 (2d12 + 10) bludgeoning damage 
and is knocked prone. On a success, the creature 
takes half as much damage and isn't knocked prone. 
Any creature that shares the guardian's space when 
it stops this movement is pushed out of its space into 
the nearest unoccupied space. 
241

--- PAGE 243 ---
242 
MAGE HUNTER GOL 
Large construct 
Armor Class 20 (natural armor) 
Hit Points 243 (18d10 
+ 144) 
Speed 30 ft, fly 20ft. 
STR 
DEX 
CON 
INT 
WIS 
CHA 
2447) 
96-1) 
2608) 
3-4 1100) 
1-5) 
Saving Throws Wis +5, Cha +0 
Skills Perception +5 
Damage Immunities poison, psychic; bludgeoning, 
piercing, and slashing from nonmagical weapons 
that aren't adamantine 
Condition Immunities charmed, exhaustion 
frightened, paralyzed, petrified, poisoned 
Senses darkvision 120 ft., truesight 30 ft., passive 
Perception 15 
Languages understands the languages of its creator 
but can't speak 
Challenge 15 (13,000 XP) __ Proficiency Bonus +5 
Antimagic Cone. The golem creates an area of anti- 
magic, as in the antimagic field spell, in a 60-foot cone 
originating from it. At the start of each of its turns, the 
golem decides which way the cone faces and whether 
the cone is active 
Immutable Form. The golem is immune to any spell or 
effect that would alter its form. 
Magic Absorption. Whenever the golem is subjected 
to a damage-dealing spell of 4th level or lower, it 
takes no damage and instead regains a number of hit 
points equal to the damage dealt. 
Magic Resistance. The golem has advantage on sav- 
ing throws against spells and other magical effects. 
Magic Weapons. The golem’s weapon attacks 
are magical. 
ACTIONS 
Multiattack. The golem uses its Antimagic Jolt 
and makes two melee attacks, or it makes three 
melee attacks. 
Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 
to hit, reach 5 ft., 
one target. Hit: 20 (3d8 + 7) bludgeoning damage. 
Claw (Recharge 5-6). Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to 
hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (18 
+ 7) bludgeon- 
ing damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 16 
Dexterity saving throw or have a magic collar placed 
upon its neck. While the target 
wears the collar, 
itis. 
magically prevented from speaking and cannot cast 
any spelll. A successful DC 25 Dexterity check using 
thieves’ tools removes the collar. 
Antimagic Jolt. Each creature within the golem’s 
Antimagic Cone that has the ability to cast a spell of 
1st level or higher must make a DC 18 Wisdom saving 
throw, taking 21 (6d6) psychic 
damage on a failed 
save, or half as much damage on a successful one. 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 244 ---
PLATINUM GOLEM 
Large construct 
Armor Class 21 (natural armor) 
Hit Points 189 (18010 
+ 90) 
Speed 
30 ft. 
STR 
DEX 
CON 
INT 
WIS 
CHA 
22 (+6) 10(+0) 
21(+5) 
 3(-4) 
12(#1) 
1-8) 
Damage Immunities acid, cold, fire, poison, psychic; 
bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing from nonmagical 
attacks 
that aren't adamantine 
Condition Immunities charmed, exhaustion, 
frightened, paralyzed, petrified, poisoned 
Senses darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 11 
Languages understands the languages of its creator 
but can't speak 
Challenge 16 (15,000 XP) 
Proficiency Bonus +5 
Divine Custodian. When the golem hits a creature 
with an opportunity attack, that creature's speed 
becomes 0 for the rest of the tum. 
$ AND ADVERSARIES OF TAL'DOREI 
CHAPTER 
6: ALLIE 
Immutable Form. The golem is immune to any spell or 
effect that would alter its form. 
Magic Resistance. The golem has advantage on sav- 
ing throws against spells and other magical effects. 
Magic Weapons. The golem’s weapon attacks 
are magical 
ACTIONS 
Multiattack. The golem makes two melee attacks. 
‘Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 5 ft., 
one target. Hit: 19 (3d8 + 6) piercing damage. 
‘Mace. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 10 ft 
‘one target. Hit: 22 (3410 + 6) bludgeoning damage. 
Radiant Blast (Recharge 6). The golem emits a burst 
of radiant light 
in a 20-foot radius. Each creature in the 
area must make a DC 18 Constitution saving throw. 
On a failed save, a creature takes 18 (4d8) radiant 
damage and is blinded until the end of its next turn 
‘Ona success, the creature takes half as much damage 
and is not blinded. 
REACTIONS 
Divine Judgment. When a creature within 10 feet of 
the golem makes an attack against a target other than 
the golem, the golem can make a mace attack against 
that creature. 
243

--- PAGE 245 ---
® 
JOURRAEL, THE CAEDOGEIST 
Jourrael is a nightmarish specter and ancient 
‘assassin of many names. The Spider Queen 
bestowed upon her the title of Caedogeist, 
the specter of silent death, while 
scholars 
describe Jourrael as “the Inevitable End,” 
more certain than death, Those who 
catch a glimpse of her whisper of 
a 
nightmarish wraith wielding daggers 
dripping poison, hair like fire, skin 
shielded in shadow, and able to walk 
through walls and mountains as if 
they were water. 
Death Forbidden. Jourrael cannot 
die. A contract between the Lord of 
J) the Hells and the Spider Queen forbids 
death from claiming the assassin, 
though many have tried—often in 
incréasingly creative ways. At the 
Calamity's end, armies joined together 
to separate Jourrael's body into disparate 
parts. The Savalirwood elves took their 
ead to Veluthil, while their heart was 
hidden in the Lotusden Greenwood under 
a dread wraithroot tree. 
‘The mysterious fiend Obann falsely 
believed that after recovering and reviving 
Jourrael, he could control her indefinitely. 
inevitably, Jourrael dealt a 
killing blow to 
Obann, sending him to the death she 
never meet. 
Unbound Future. Alive and well, Jourrael 
still serves the Spider Queen. Their ghostly form 
and unmatchable stealth fuel the attacks of their 
spectral blade and void dagger, with few surviving, 
that onslaught. They shrug off nature’s elements 
and mortals’ weapons, won't be held against their 
ill, 
and know no fear. After having spent so long 
dismembered and sealed away, Jourrael is eager to 
see the world of Exandria—and to kill any creature 
they deem worthy of dying on their blades. 
‘Alignment. Chaotic evil.

--- PAGE 246 ---
JOURRAEL, THE CAEDOGEIST 
‘Medium fiend (drow) 
Armor Class 19 (studded leather armor) 
Hit Points 152 (16d8 + 80) 
Speed 80 tt., fly 40 ft 
STR 
DEX 
CON 
INT 
WIS 
CHA 
13 (#1) 24(7) 20(45) 
14(42) 17(+3) 
15(+2) 
Saving Throws Dex +12, Con +10, Wis #8 
Skills Acrobatics +12, Perception +13, Stealth +17 
Damage Resistances acid, fire, lightning, cold, 
thunder; bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing from 
nonmagical attacks 
Damage Immunities poison 
Condition immunities frightened, grappled, 
paralyzed, poisoned, prone, restrained 
Senses darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 23 
Languages Abyssal, Common, Infernal, Undercommon 
Challenge 15 (13,000 XP) 
Proficiency Bonus +5 
Incorporeal Movement. Jourrael can move through 
other creatures and objects as if they were difficult 
terrain. They take 5 (1d10) force damage if they end 
their turn inside an object. 
Sneak Attack (1/Turn). Jourrae| deals an extra 35 
(10d6) damage when they hit a target with a weapon 
attack and have advantage on the attack roll, or when 
the target is within 5 feet of 
an ally of Jourrael that 
isn’t incapacitated and Jourrael doesn't have disad- 
vantage on the attack roll. 
Innate Spelicasting. Jourrael’s spelicasting ability is 
Charisma (spell save DC 15). She can innately cast the 
following spells, requiring no material components: 
At will: dancing lights 
‘day each: darkness, faerie fire 
Inevitable. If Jourrael is reduced to O hit points, they 
do not fall unconscious but become an incorporeal 
spirit for 24 hours. During this time, Jourrael can’t 
return to their original form until they return to full hit 
points. In this form, they are invisible, can’t attack or 
interact with corporeal creatures or objects, and can't, 
be targeted by spells. After 24 hours have passed, 
Jourrael regains 1 hit point and returns to their original 
form with four levels of exhaustion. 
ACTIONS 
Multiattack. Jourrael makes two melee attacks or two 
ranged attacks. 
‘Spectral Blade. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, 
reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (146 + 7) slashing 
damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 14 
Constitution saving throw or be poisoned for 1 hour. If 
| 
the saving throw fails by 5 or more, the target is also 
unconscious while poisoned in this way. The target 
wakes up if it takes damage or if another creature 
| 
takes an action to shake it awake. 
Void Dagger. Ranged Weapon Attack: 
+12 to 
hit, range 60/120 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (104 + 7) 
} 
piercing damage. 
BONUS ACTIONS. 
Cunning Action. Jourrael can take the Dash, Disen- 
gage, 
or Hide action. 
Mirrored Form (Recharges after 
a Short Rest). 
| 
Jourrael manifests three illusory duplicates that hover 
inher space. Each time a creature targets Jourrael 
with an attack, roll a d20 to see if it hits one of the 
duplicates. If there are three duplicates, a duplicate is 
targeted on a roll of 6 or higher. With two duplicates, 
a duplicate is targeted on a roll of 
8 or higher. A 
single duplicate is targeted on a roll of 11 or higher. A 
duplicate’s AC is 17, and it is destroyed if hit. Jourrael 
can hide the duplicates as a bonus action. 
REACTIONS 
Parry. Jourrael adds 5 to their AC against one melee 
attack that would hit them. To do so, they must see 
+ 
the attacker. 
S0f the great, terrible legentls born in the blood and 
fire of the 
Calamity, few managed 
to defy mortality and endure the ages as deftly 
as the assassin queen Jourrael. Blessed 
by shadow,and death, they 
walk between realms, relishing the hunt and stalking their target 
tirelessly, unburdened by wall, gate, or door. Whatever-poor soul finds 
the 
ire of the Caedogeist can only accept their ‘Inevitable End 
—UNNAMED SCHOLAR OF THE COBALT SOUL 
CHAPTER 
6: ALLIES AND ADVERSARIES 
OF TAL’DOREI 
: 
: 
245

--- PAGE 247 ---
KRAGHAMMER GOAT- 
KNIGHT 
The sheer cliff faces and winding mountainside 
roads of the Cliffkeep Mountains are nearly impos- 
sible to traverse by normal means with any speed. 
The Peakclimber Knights of Kraghammer—com- 
monly known as the goat-knights—are the enforcers 
of peace and justice across the mountain range. 
They trust their giant goat steeds to master the 
harsh mountain slopes, and many travelers lost 
within the Cliffkeep Mountains have been saved by 
a goat-knight who led them to safety along the more 
traversable mountain paths. 
‘These knights serve the All-Hammer and some- 
times find themselves at odds while enforcing the 
laws of Kraghammer and upholding the edicts of 
their god. 
GOAT-KNIGHT STEEDS 
A goat knight's steed uses the 
with the following modification: 
Its Intelligence score is 6 (-2), and it can under- 
stand Dwarvish. 
Its creature type is celestial. 
Any spell the goat-knight casts with a range of self 
also targets the goat. 
When a goat-knight steed drops to 0 hit points, it 
disappears, leaving behind no physical form. The 
goat-knight can also dismiss the steed at any time as 
an action, causing it to disappear. In either case, the 
jiant goat stat block 
same steed is summoned when the goat-knight casts 
find steed. 
IIIS 
e 
KRAGHAMMER 
GOAT-KNIGHT 
Medium humanoid (dwarf) 
Armor Class 20 (plate, shield) 
Hit Points 52 (8d8 + 16) 
Speed 
25 ft 
STR 
DEX 
CON 
INT 
WIS 
CHA 
1763) 8-1) 
14(42) 
10(+0) 110) 16 (+3) 
Saving Throws Str +5, Dex +1, Con +4, Int +2, Wis 
+2, Cha +5 
Skills Nature +2, Religion +4 
Damage Resistances poison 
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 10 
Languages Common, Dwarvish 
Challenge 3 (700 XP) 
Proficiency Bonus +2 
Aura of Protection. Whenever the goat-knight or a 
creature friendly to it within 10 feet 
of it makes 
a saving 
throw, that creature gains a +2 bonus (included in the 
goat-knight’s saving throws above). The goat-knight, 
must be conscious to grant and gain this bonus. 
Divine Health. The goat-knight is immune to disease. 
Dwarven Resilience. The goat-knight has resistance 
to poison damage and advantage on saving throws 
against poison. 
Spellcasting. The goat-knight is a 6th-level spellcaster. 
Its spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 13, 
45 to hit with spell attacks). It has the following paladin 
spells prepared: 
‘1st level (4 slots): bless, cure wounds, protection from 
evil and good, sanctuary, shield of faith 
2nd level (2 slots): branding smite, find steed, lesser 
restoration, zone of truth 
ACTIONS 
Multiattack. The goat-knight makes two warham- 
mer attacks. 
Warhammer. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 
5 ft, one target. Hit: 7 (1d8 + 3) bludgeoning dam- 
age, or 8 (1d10 + 3) bludgeoning damage if used with 
two hands. 
DORRIT 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAI 3N SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 248 ---
MAGMA LANDSHARK 
Lurking inside volcanoes, subterranean 
magma pits, and the endless seas of flame 
within the Elemental Plane of Fire, magma 
landsharks live only to eat. These crea- 
tures are physically similar to bulettes, 
the common landshark of the Dividing 
Plains, but are filled with churning ele- 
mental power. 
This 
fiery, armored predator burrows 
and burns through solid rock and can 
sense the slightest movement in the 
ground around it. When hungry—and, 
these creatures are always hungry—a 
magma landshark erupts from under the 
earth, oblivious to any obstruction or danger, 
uprooting trees, destroying roads, unleashing 
avalanches, and leaving sinkholes behind in its 
wake. Its jaws widen as it swallows prey whole, 
and even creatures that initially survive the attack 
must contend with an aura of intense heat if they 
can't escape. 
MAGMA LANDSHARK 
Huge elemental 
Armor Class 18 (natural armor) 
Hit Points 150 (12d12 +72) 
Speed 50 ft., burrow 50 ft., swim 50 ft. (lava only) 
STR 
DEX 
CON 
INT 
WIS 
CHA 
22 (+6) 11(+0) 2206) 
2-4) 142) 
5(-3) 
Damage Immunities fire 
Skills Perception +7 
Senses darkvision 60 ft., tremorsense 120 ft., passive 
Perception 17 
Languages — 
Challenge 14 (11,500 XP) 
Proficiency Bonus +5 
Searing Presence. Any creature that starts its turn 
within 10 feet of the landshark takes 11 (2410) 
fire damage. 
‘Standing Leap. The landshark’s long jump is up to 40 
feet and its high jump is up to 20 feet, with or without 
a running start. 
Mumination. The landshark sheds bright light in a 
15-foot radius and dim light for an additional 15 feet. 
ACTIONS 
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
target. Hit: 45 (6d12 + 6) piercing damage, and 14 
(4d6) fire damage. If the target is a Large or smaller 
creature, it must succeed on a DC 18 Dexterity saving 
CHAPTER 
6: ALLIES AND ADVERSARIES 
OF TAL’DOREL 
throw or be swallowed by the landshark. A swallowed 
creature is blinded and restrained, it has total cover 
against attacks and other effects outside the land- 
shark, and it takes 42 (12d6) fire damage at the start of 
each of the landshark’s turns. 
If the landshark takes 30 damage or more ona 
single turn from a creature inside it, the landshark 
must succeed on a DC 23 Constitution saving throw 
at the end of that turn or regurgitate all swallowed 
creatures, which fall prone in a space within 10 feet 
of the landshark. If the landshark dies, a swallowed 
creature is no longer restrained by it and can escape 
from the corpse by using 15 feet of movement, 
exiting prone. 
Deadly Leap. If the landshark jumps at least 15 feet 
as part of its movement, it can then use this action 
to land on its feet in a space that contains one or 
more other creatures. Each of those creatures must 
succeed on a DC 18 Strength or Dexterity saving 
throw (target’s choice) or be knocked prone and take 
27 (6d6 + 6) bludgeoning damage plus 21 (6d6) fire 
damage. On a successful save, the creature takes only 
half the damage, isn't knocked prone, and is pushed 5 
feet out of the landshark’s space into an unoccupied 
space of the creature's choice. If no unoccupied space 
is within range, the creature instead falls prone in the 
landshark’s space. 
Lava Poo! (Recharge 6). If the landshark is on solid 
ground, it melts the area around it, creating a pool of 
lava in a 10-foot radius. Any creature that starts its 
turn in the area or enters it for the first time on a tum 
takes 44 (8d10) fire damage.

--- PAGE 249 ---
TT 
YOUNG MAGMA LANDSHARK 
Large elemental 
Armor Class 16 (natural armor) 
Points 105 (10d10 + 50) 
Speed 40 ft., burrow 40 ft, swim 40 ft. (lava only) 
PLAINSCOW 
The hulking plainscow is an exceptionally sturdy 
beast of burden native to the Dividing Plains and 
used by the people of central Tal'Dorei for centu- 
ries. Though many wild herds still roam the plains, 
domesticated plainscows are more common, used as 
STR 
DEX 
CON 
INT 
WIS 
CHA 
20(*5) 11 (+0) 
21(+5) 
 2(-4) 
10(+0) 
5-3) 
Damage Immunities fire 
Skills Perception +4 
Senses darkvision 60 ft., tremorsense 120 ft., passive 
Perception 14 
Languages — 
Challenge 9 (5,000 xP) 
Proficiency Bonus +4 
Searing Presence. Any creature that starts its turn 
within 10 feet of the landshark takes 11 (2010) 
fire damage. 
Standing Leap. The landshark’s long jump is up to 40 
feet and its high jump is up to 20 feet, with or without a 
running start. 
Mumination. The landshark sheds bright light in a 
15-foot radius and dim light for an additional 15 feet. 
ACTIONS 
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 31 (4d12 + 5) piercing damage, and 14 (4d6) 
fire damage. 
Deadly Leap. If the landshark jumps at least 15 feet as 
part of its movement, it can then use this action to land 
on its feet in a space that contains one or more other 
creatures. Each of those creatures must succeed on 
a DC 16 Strength or Dexterity saving throw (target's 
choice) or be knocked prone and take 19 (4d6 +5) 
bludgeoning damage plus 14 (4d6) fire damage. On 
a successful save, the creature takes only half the 
damage, isn’t knocked prone, and is pushed 5 feet out 
of the landshark’s space into an unoccupied space of 
the creature's choice. If no unoccupied space is within 
range, the creature instead falls prone in the land- 
shark's space. 
pack animals, and livestock. Plainscows are 
unusually empathetic for beasts, and often bond with 
arider for life. They stand 6 feet tall, weigh about 
two tons, and live for 70 years. 
Market Value. Plainscows can be bought in 
Westruun for 200 gp. A plainscow has a carrying 
capacity of 1,500 pounds. 
DO ARI 
PLAINSCOW 
Large beast 
Armor Class 13 (natural armor) 
Hit Points 42 (5d10 + 15) 
Speed 40 ft. 
STR 
DEX 
CON 
INT 
WIS 
CHA 
18(+4) 8-1) 
16(+3) 
2-4) 
10(+0) 
6 (-2) 
Damage Resistances bludgeoning, piercing, and 
slashing from nonmagical attacks 
Skills Insight +2 
Senses passive Perception 10 
Languages — 
Challenge 2 (450 XP) 
Trampling Charge. If the plainscow moves at least 20 
feet straight toward a creature and then hits it with a 
hooves attack on the same turn, that target must suc- 
ceed ona DC 14 Strength saving throw or be knocked 
prone. If the target is prone, the plainscow can make 
another attack with its hooves as a bonus action. 
ACTIONS 
Proficiency Bonus +2 
Hooves. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., 
‘one target. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) bludgeoning damage. 
La 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 250 ---
RAVAGERS 
The Ravagers are a death cult that stampedes across 
the Dividing Plains, spilling blood in the name of the 
Betrayer God known as the Ruiner. Led by blood- 
thirsty warlords called Slaughter Lords, the cult’s 
Iong:term goals are unknown, but its members are 
content in the short term to sow the seeds of chaos 
across the plains. 
‘Such wanton, chaotic slaughter would certainly 
please the Ruiner, and the smaller settlements of the 
plains have learned to fear the sight of Ravagers on 
the horizon. Inside the walls of Westruun, however, 
Lord Mayor Lysandra Kallos and her councilors 
worry that the Ravagers show better organization 
than their bloodthirsty warlords should be capable 
of instilling in the cult. Who—or what—is com- 
manding the Slaughter Lords from the shadows? 
And toward what end are these depraved warriors 
being directed? 
RAVAGER SLAUGHTER LORD 
‘Some warlords of the Dividing Plains, hungry 
for recognition in the single burning eye of their 
god, turn to the Ravagers in the name of blood 
and glory. Those few whose deeds live up to their 
ambitions soon find themselves leading factions 
of the cult—and honored by the title of Slaughter 
Lord. A Slaughter Lord craves combat and leads 
Ravager raids as often as possible. However, they 
are frequently forced to remain at their strongholds 
because of the strict regimen of alchemical treat- 
ments that grant them increased power. 
A small army of shamans and alchemists 
attend 
to the Slaughter Lords to artificially enhance their 
strength and fury, creating concoctions to grow 
their muscular forms to massive 
size, sharpen their 
tactical reasoning, and bestow upon them the divine 
protection of the Ruiner. A Slaughter Lord’s unnat- 
ural size is their most obvious martial advantage, 
enabling them to dual-wield even the largest weap- 
ons. But the Ruiner’s blessings also grant them 
access to divine magic that can blind or slay 
enemies with a word. 
Itis speculated that four major arms 
of the Ravagers are each commanded 
by one of these terrors, but the 
exact number of Slaughter Lords 
remains unknown. 
Alignment. Chaotic evil. 
CHAPTER 6: ALLIES AND ADVERSARIES 
OF TAL'’DOREI 
RAVAGER STABBY-STABBER 
Adventurers and mercenaries most often take up 
arms against the Ravagers after hearing stories 
of the hordes terrorizing the free peoples of the 
Dividing Plains. They prepare themselves for brutal 
combat against even more brutal foes—and are 
thus unprepared for the Ravagers’ most terrifying 
weapon, the stabby-stabbers. Fresh-faced warriors 
from Emon laugh at the name when they first hear 
it in Kymal's taverns, even as veteran mercenaries 
close their eyes and hastily bury their faces in their 
tankards 
Nimble Ravager warriors who show exceptional 
skill are brought before their Slaughter Lord and 
forced to drink a terrible brew the Ravagers call 
skullfire. This concoction burns away what little 
reasoning ability those warriors possessed, turning 
them into perfectly obedient, flesh-hungry monsters. 
In battle, stabby-stabbers swarm like rats, eviscerat- 
ing enemies and bystanders alike. 
Alignment. Chaotic evil.

--- PAGE 251 ---
250 
| RAVAGER SLAUGHTER LORD 
Large humanoid (any) 
Armor Class 17 (Unarmored Defense) 
Hit Points 157 (15d10 + 75) 
Speed 30 ft. 
STR 
DEX 
CON 
INT 
WIS 
CHA 
22(+6) 142) 205) 12(+1) 16(+3) 16 (+3) 
Saving Throws Str +10, Con +9, Wis +7 
Skills Intimidation +11, Religion +5 
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 13 
Languages Abyssal, Common, one other language 
Challenge 
9 (5,000 XP) 
Proficiency Bonus +4 
Innate Spellcasting. The Slaughter Lord's innate 
spelicasting ability is Wisdom (spell save DC 15, +7 to 
hit with spell attacks). It can innately cast the following 
spells, requiring no material components: 
At will: thaumaturgy 
3/day each: flame strike, spirit guardians 
‘Aiday each: control weather, divine word, fire storm 
Legendary Resistance (2/Day). If the Slaughter Lord 
fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead 
Unarmored Defense. While the Slaughter Lord is 
wearing no armor and not wielding a shield, its AC 
includes its Constitution modifier. 
ACTIONS 
Multiattack. The Slaughter Lord makes four attacks 
with its dual greatswords or three attacks with 
its spear. 
Dual Greatswords. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, 
reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (2d6 + 6) piercing dam- 
age plus 3 (106) fire damage. 
‘Spear. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, 
range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (2d6 + 6) piercing 
damage plus 3 (146) fire damage, or 15 (2d8 + 6) 
piercing damage plus 3 (16) fire damage if used with 
both hands to make a melee attack. 
BONUS ACTIONS 
Aggressive. The Slaughter Lord can move up to its 
speed toward a hostile creature it can see. 
LEGENDARY ACTIONS 
The Slaughter Lord can take 3 legendary actions, 
choosing from the options below. Only one legendary 
action option can be used at a time and only at the 
end of another creature’s turn. The Slaughter Lord 
regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. 
Attack. The Slaughter Lord makes a spear or dual 
greatswords attack. 
‘Move. The Slaughter Lord moves up to half its speed. 
Cast 
a Spell (Costs 3 Actions). The Slaughter Lord 
casts an innate spell 
RAVAGER STABBY-STABBER 
‘Small humanoid (any) 
Armor Class 15 (studded leather) 
Hit Points 36 (8d6 + 8) 
Speed 30 ft. 
STR 
DEX 
CON 
INT 
WIS 
CHA 
10 (+0) 16 (+3) 12 (+4) 10(+0) 8(-1) 
7(-2) 
Saving Throws Wis +4 
Condition immunities charmed 
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 9 
Languages Common, one other language 
Challenge 
3 (700 XP) 
Proficiency Bonus +2 
Stabby Frenzy. When the stabby-stabber hits with a 
melee attack, it can attack again and continue making 
additional attacks until it misses. The stabby-stabber 
cannot move between the attacks made with this trait. 
ACTIONS 
Shortsword, Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 
ft, one target. Hit: 
6 (1d6 + 3) piercing damage. 
Dagger. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, 
reach 5 ft, range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 5 (144 + 3) 
piercing damage. 
BONUS ACTIONS 
Nimble Escape. The stabby-stabber can use the Dis- 
engage or Hide action. 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 252 ---
REMNANTS 
The Remnants is a foul cult dedicated to seeing their 
lich leader, the Whispered One, ascend to godhood. 
Cultists believe that self-mutilation and transitory 
failings are requirements to pierce the veil and see 
the world for the lie it is—including accepting that 
the true hidden world already belongs to the Whis- 
pered One. 
Bitter Victory. The Remnants have both won 
and failed in their dire goal, as the Whispered One. 
ascended but was banished beyond the Divine Gate. Yet 
they name him the Ascendant One, the Banished One, 
or—because all others gods are pretenders—simply 
the One, and prepare patiently for his final ascension. 
REMNANT CHOSEN 
‘Medium humanoid (any) 
Armor Class 12 (15 with mage armor) 
Hit Points 117 (1808 + 36) 
Speed 30 ft. 
STR 
DEX 
CON 
INT 
WIS 
CHA 
10 (#0) 
1442) 
14442) 152) 16(43) 20(+5) 
Saving Throws Cha +9, Wis +7 
Skills Arcana +10, Deception +9 
Damage Resistances damage from spells 
Damage Immunities necrotic 
‘Senses truesight 60 ft., passive Perception 13 
Languages Abyssal, Common, Infernal 
Challenge 12 (8,400 XP) 
_Proficiency Bonus +4 
‘Magic Resistance. The chosen has advantage on sav- 
ing throws against spells and other magical effects. 
Spelicasting. The chosen is an 18th-level spelicaster. 
Its spelicasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 17, 
+9 to hit with spell attacks). It has the following sor- 
cerer spells prepared: 
Cantrips (at will): chill touch (4d8), dancing lights, 
mage hand, message, shocking grasp (448) 
Ast level (4 slots): charm person, mage armor, shield 
followers, spending hours in silent meditation hoping 
to hear their long-dead master whisper a command. ~ 
ment from beyond. However, only 
a rare few hear the — 
spectral voice of the Whispered One as it worms its 
way into their minds, emptying out other thought and 
filling their heads with clarity and direction. Much 
of this direction involves the Remnants’ plans to 
leverage secrets stolen from the Plane of Shadow 
increase the cult’s power in Tal'Dorei. 
2nd level (3 slots) 
thoughts 
3rd level (3 slots): counterspell, fly, hypnotic pattern 
4th level 
(3 slots): greater invisibility 
| 
Wie 
Sth level (3 slots): dominate person, seeming 
: 
6th level (1 slot): eyebite 
| 
: 
7th level (1 slot): finger of death 
| 
: 
8th level (1 slot): power word stun 
9th level (1 slot): power word kill 
Withering Spells. When the chosen casts a spell of 
4st level or higher, the next Withered Hand attack it 
makes before the end of its next turn deals extra dam- 
‘age equal to 1d6 per level 
of the spell cast. 
ACTIONS 
| 
Withering Touch. Melee Spell Attack: +9 to hit, reach 
5 ft,, one target. Hit: 17 (Sd6) force damage plus extra 
damage from the Withering Touch trait. If this damage 
reduces a creature to O hit points, the creature and 
everything it is wearing and carrying, except magic 
items, are reduced to a pile of fine gray dust. The crea- 
ture can be restored to life only by means of a true 
resurrection or a wish spell 
BONUS ACTIONS. 
Inescopable Sight. The Chosen selects a creature or 
object under the effect of an illusion spell of 4th level 
or lower. One illusion of the Chosen’s choice affecting 
the target is dispelled. 
lindness/deatness, detect 
CHAPTER 
6: ALLIES AND ADVERSARIES OF TAL'DOREL 
251

--- PAGE 253 ---
252 
REMNANT CULTIST 
All cultists of the Whispered One endure 
horrific rites 
of initiation that force them to 
remove one of their own eyes and forever 
shackle themselves to the will of the cult’s 
leaders. Every cultist can feel the presence 
of their foul god just beyond the fabric of the 
physical world, and many claim to hear him 
speaking to them when all else is silent. 
The cultists 
of the Whispered One 
still venerate their wrathful master with 
offerings of secrets and unwilling souls to 
gain his favor, learning what they can and 
keeping hidden that which they know. Cult- 
ists believe in cultivating evil in themselves 
and recognizing it in others, encouraging 
them to express it, They hope to seed the 
ruin of all who worship other deities until 
only those who kneel before the Whispered 
One remain. 
REMNANT CULTIST 
‘Medium humanoid (any) 
Armor Class 13 (16 with mage armor) 
Hit Points 60 (1148 + 11) 
Speed 30 ft 
STR 
DEX 
CON 
INT 
WIS 
CHA 
10(+0) 16(+3) 
12(+1) 
18(+4) 
8(-1) 
8 (-1) 
Saving Throws Wis +2 
| Skills Deception +5, Stealth +6 
Damage Resistances necrotic, psychic 
Senses passive Perception 9 
Languages Common, Infernal 
Challenge 7 (2,900 XP) 
Proficiency Bonus +3 
Spellcasting. The remnant cutis is an 11th-level 
spelicaster. Its spelicasting ability is intelligence (pel 
save DC 15, #7 tohit with spell attacks). The cultst has 
the following wizard spells prepared: 
Cantrips (at wil) chill touch (348), message, minor 
| 
“itusion, prestiigitation, ray of frost (348) 
| tst evel (4 slots): detect magic, hideous laughter, 
| _ mage ormor, shield 
| 2nd level (3 slots): detect thoughts, suggestion 
| 3rd level (3 slots): counterspell, fear, vampiric touch 
| Ath level (3 slots): greater invisibility, phantasmal killer 
| Sth evel (2 slot}: ream, mislead 
| Gth level ( slot): circle of death 
Unknowable Secrets. Any attempt to form a mental 
link with the cultist, cast scry on the cultist, or cast 
speak with dead on the cultist automatically fails, and 
the creature that initiated the attempt takes 21 (646) 
psychic damage. 
One-Eyed. The cultist has disadvantage on any attack 
roll made against a target more than 30 feet away. 
Spellsteal. If the cultist successfully uses counterspell 
to negate another creature's spell, 
it can cast the 
countered spell once before the end of its next tum 
using one of its spell slots of the same level or higher, 
and requiring no material components 
ACTIONS 
Dagger of Wounding. Melee or Ranged Weapon 
Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., range 20/60 ft., one tar- 
get. Hit: 5 (1d4 + 3) piercing damage. Hit points 
lost to 
this weapon's damage can be regained only through a 
short or long rest, rather than by regeneration, magic, 
or any other means. 
Once per turn when the cultist hits a creature with 
an attack using this weapon, it can wound its target. 
At the start of each of the wounded creature’s turns, 
it takes 2 (144) necrotic damage for each time it's 
been wounded by this weapon. It can then make a 
OC 15 Constitution saving throw, ending the effect of 
all such wounds on itself 
on a success. Alternatively, 
the wounded creature, or a creature within 5 feet of it, 
can use an action to make a DC 15 Wisdom (Medicine) 
check, ending the effect 
of such wounds on it on 
a success. 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 254 ---
RIVERMAW WARRIORS 
‘The tyrant Kevdak's fearsome Herd of Storms. 
was so named because of the many stormborn in its 
The Rivermaw Herd is a nomadic society mostly 
ranks, but that herd was broken at Westruun some 
composed of half-giants, also known as goliaths, and 
_two decades ago. Now the Rivermaw Herd is bol- 
a mighty force for good on the Dividing Plains. The 
stered by those who were freed from Kevdak’s rule. 
herd was once conquered by a goliath tyrant named 
The few stormborn remaining from that broken herd 
Kevdak, then formed anew after Kevdak was even- 
are part of the Rivermaw, and more storm-blessed 
tually defeated by Vox Machina. Free of Kevdak's 
warriors have been born into the Rivermaw since, 
martial cruelty, the Rivermaw see it as their duty to 
ready to forge new legends. 
prevent any such tyrant from conquering the Divid 
ing Plains 
ever again. 
Though most members of the Rivermaw Herd are 
goliaths, their ranks include people of all races who 
wish to live beyond the stone walls of Westruun and 
the palisades of plains towns like Turst Fields. Ores, 
humans, halflings, and gnolls make up most of the 
rest of the herd’s warriors. Most of those warriors 
value strength and endurance over other qualities, 
but the brawlers and stormborn of the Rivermaw are 
better known for cunning, intelligence, 
strategy, and 
a unique attunement to the mighty thunder of the 
Stormlord. 
RIVERMAW BRAWLER 
Many children in the Rivermaw Herd get into 
friendly brawls, but only the truly dedicated learn the 
art of fist fighting. Rivermaw brawlers usually lead 
the charge on the battlefield, using their exceptional 
strength, speed, and cunning to throw an enemy 
vanguard into chaos. 
Beyond the 
Dividing Plains, brawlers trained by 
the Rivermaw can be found in noble adventuring 
parties, working for the Clasp as muscle, in under- 
ground fighting rings, and as personal bodyguards. 
In Emon, the most famous fist fighters make a name 
for themselves within the Brawler’s 
League or the 
Godsbrawl, representing the Stormlord in that 
annual holy tournament. 
RIVERMAW STORMBORN 
Countless 
goliath legends tell of heroes 
born beneath 
‘a raging storm: Kaldon Thunderhead, who slew the 
‘ember roc of the south; Marydra Skysplitter, who 
defeated a champion of the Ruiner in single combat; 
and Yodrell Rumblechest, who halted a flash flood 
with only his voice, to name just a few. 
Though the stormborn of legend were all half-gi- 
ants, more and more Rivermaw have begun to feel 
the Stormlord’s power reverberate within them. 
These peerless warriors are blessed with preter- 
natural skill with a blade and the uncanny ability 
to command lightning. Often destined to become 
mythic heroes, stormborn fight with reckless aban- 
don—but many can be distressingly prideful and 
might need reminding that the songs of defeated or 
tyrannical stormborn are rarely sung by the bards. 
CHAPTER 
6: 
ALLIES AND ADVERSARIES 
OF TALDOREL 
ae 
253

--- PAGE 255 ---
VERMAW BRAWLER, 
damage. If the targets a Large or smaller creature, 
| 
| 
| 
| 
‘Medium humanoid (any) 
Armor Class 15 (Unarmored Defense) 
Hit Points 65 (1008 + 20) 
Speed 
40 ft. 
STR 
DEX 
CON 
INT 
WIS 
CHA 
17(+3) 14(+2) 
15(42) 
14(+2) 16 (43) 
8(-1) 
Saving Throws Str +5, Wis +5 
Skills Acrobatics +4, Athletics +5, Perception +5 
Senses passive Perception 15 
Languages Common, Giant 
Challenge 4 (1,100 XP) 
Prot 
iency Bonus +2 
Unarmored Defense. While the brawler is wearing 
no armor and wielding no shield, its AC include: 
Wisdom modifier, 
ACTIONS 
Multiattack. The brawler makes three 
unarmed strikes. 
Unarmed Strike. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, 
reach 5 ft, one target. Hit: 7 (1d8 + 3) bludgeoning 
the brawler can choose one of the following addi 
tional effects: 
+ Bruise. The target must succeed on a DC 13 
Constitution saving throw. On a failure, its speed is 
reduced by 5 feet until it receives atleast 1 point 
‘of magical healing. A creature can use its action to 
make a DC 15 Wisdom (Medicine) check to heal an 
affected creature within 5 feet of it (including itself), 
restoring any lost speed on a success. 
Disarm. The target must succeed on a DC 13 
Strength saving throw or drop one item it is holding, 
The brawler can choose which item is dropped, and 
can pick it up. 
‘Suplex. The target must succeed on a DC 13, 
Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. 
REACTIONS 
Clever Fighter. When the brawler hits with an attack 
oris targeted by an attack, it can add its Intelligence 
modifier (+2) to its damage rolls or AC until the end 
of its turn. 
Endurance (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). 
When the brawler takes damage, it can reduce the 
damage by 8 (1412 + 2). 
RIVERMAW STORMBORN 
‘Medium humanoid (any) 
Armor Class 13 (hide armor) 
Hit Points 102 (1208 + 48) 
Speed 30 ft. 
STR 
DEX 
CON 
INT 
WIS 
CHA 
18(+4) 12(+) 
18(+4) 
11(+0) 10(+0) 
 12(+1) 
during that turn, but attack rolls against it have 
advantage until the start of its next turn. 
Innate Spelicasting. The stormborn's innate 
spelicasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 12) 
The stormborn can innately cast the following spells, 
requiring no material components: 
3/day: lightning bolt 
Aiday: call lightning 
ACTIONS 
‘Saving Throws Con +7, Cha +4 
Skills Athletics +7, Intimidation +4 
Damage Resistances lightning 
Senses passive Perception 10 
Languages Common, Giant 
Challenge 5 (1,800 XP) 
Proficiency Bonus +3 
Reckless. At the start of its turn, the stormborn can 
gain advantage on all melee weapon attack rolls 
The stormborn makes two greataxe 
attacks. Ifit is concentrating on cail lightning, it can 
also call down a lightning bot. 
Greataxe. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., 
one target. Hit: 10 (1412 + 4) slashing damage plus 3 
(106) lightning damage. 
REACTIONS 
Endurance (Recharges after a Short or Long rest). 
When the stormborn takes damage, it can reduce the 
damage by 10 (1d12 + 4), 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 256 ---
SKELETONS 
keletons are often the first 
creatures to be rean- 
imated by aspiring necromancer, imbued with 
a vulgar imitation of life and reassembled into 
an approximation of their living forms. No trace 
mains of the life that once 
animated a skeleton, 
whose only purpose is loyalty. 
tons follow the orders 
of their creators until 
those orders are completed. Their obedient, 
tireless 
nature makes them perfect as disposable battle 
fodder, guards, or distractions—and, in great enough 
numbers, turns them into an overwhelming tide 
of 
bone, tooth, and blade, 
Undead Nature. A 
skeleton doesn't require air, 
food, drink, or sleep. 
Alignment. Neutral evil. 
"Odd mysteries surround these 
given renewed, violent 
purpose as a mockery of 
‘mortality. Rumors speak of 
a dark intelligence 
oted within, seeking power and using their own 
the wriggling worms that thrive 
as currency to trade with 
CENTAUR SKELETON 
The Alabaster Sierras are bordered by hazardous 
treacherous 
shore-side cliffs and bleak mountains 
swarming 
with starving monstrosities. But beneath 
those peaks is a dense, beautiful, and eerie forest 
called the Parchwood. During the 
six-year night- 
mare that was the Briarwood’s reign, refugees made 
their home here—but so did Lady Delilah and Lord 
Sylas's experiments. The centau: 
ions 
of the 
Parchwood are not centaurs at all; rather, they are 
the remnants of the Briarwoods’ fleeting attempts to 
entertain themselves by refashioning the remains of 
different species into unique forms. 
FLAMING SKELETON 
The skeletal remains 
of many of those who opposed 
Thordak the 
Cinder 
King are 
said to be forever 
imbued with the primordial power of his fire breath. 
Areas 
scarred 
by the red dragon’s power, including 
Thordak's Crater in Emon’s Cloudtop District, the 
Ashen Gorge in the Stormerest Mountains, and Ser- 
pent’s Head in the Cliffkeep Mountains, are rife with 
eletons. These undead react to the raw 
power of the Elemental Planes, and are filled with an 
unquenchable desire to spread flames far and wide 
ing is left untouched by fire.

--- PAGE 257 ---
eB 
& 
CENTAUR SKELETON 
Lorge undead 
Armor Class 12 
Hit Points 45 (6d10 + 12) 
Speed 50 ft 
STR 
DEX 
CON 
INT 
WIS 
CHA 
17(+3) 14(2) 14(2) 
6(-2) 
9-1) 
5-3) 
Damage Vulnerabilities bludgeoning 
Damage Immunities poison 
Condition Immunities exhaustion, poisoned 
‘Senses darkvision 60 ft, passive Perception 9 
Languages understands Common but can’t speak 
Challenge 2 (450 XP) 
Proficiency Bonus +2 
Charge. If the centaur moves at least 30 feet straight 
toward a target and then hits it with a pike attack on the 
same tum, the target takes an extra 10 (3d6) pierc- 
ing damage. 
ACTIONS 
Multiattack. The centaur skeleton makes two attacks: 
‘one with its pike and one with its hooves, or two with 
its longbow. 
Pike. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 10 ft, one 
target. Hit: 8 (1010 
+ 3) piercing damage. 
Hooves. Melee Weapon Attack: #5 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 10 (2d6 + 3) bludgeoning damage. 
Longbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, range 
150/600 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (148 
+ 2) pierc- 
ing damage. 
(CENTAUR SKELETON CUSTOMIZATION 
Some centaur skeletons have the following additional 
feature at the GM's discretion. 
Spirit Away. The centaur skeleton and up to 
three creatures within 5 feet of it magically enter the 
Ethereal Plane from the Material Plane, or vice versa 
‘An unwilling creature that succeeds on a DC 13 Cha- 
risma saving throw can resist this effect. 
FLAMING SKELETON 
‘Medium undead 
Armor Class 12 
Hit Points 19 (3d8 + 6) 
Speed 30 ft. 
STR 
DEX 
CON 
INT 
WIS 
CHA 
10(+0) 14 (+2) 
15(*2) 
6(-2) 
8-1) 
5(-3) 
Damage Vulnerabilities bludgeoning 
Damage Immunities fire, poison 
Condition Immunities exhaustion, poisoned 
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 9 
Languages understands all languages it knew in life but 
can't speak 
Challenge 1/2 (100 XP) 
Proficiency Bonus +2 
Heated Weapons. When the skeleton hits with a metal 
melee weapon, the weapon deals an extra 3 (1d6) fire 
‘damage (included in the attack). 
Mumination. The skeleton sheds bright light ina 
10-foot radius and dim light for an additional 10 feet. 
ACTIONS 
Shortsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 
ft, one target. Hit: 5 (1d6 
+ 2) piercing damage and 3 
(106) fire damage. 
Ignite. The skeleton flings itself at a Large or smaller 
creature within 5 feet of it. The target must succeed on 
a DC 12 Dexterity saving throw or be grappled (escape 
DC 12). On afailed save, the target 
also takes 3 (146) 
fire damage at the start of each of its turns, even after 
the grapple ends. If the target or 
a creature within 5 
feet 
of it uses an action to put out the flames, or if some 
other effect douses the flames (such as the target being 
submerged in water), the effect ends.

--- PAGE 258 ---
VOS’SKYRISS 
SERPENTFOLK 
The Vos'skyriss serpentfolk are the people of an 
ancient elite empire of humanoid-snake hybrids, 
who seek the ultimate detachment that comes 
from destroying all of reality. 
Constricted Origins. Once a realm of 
humanoids who worshiped serpents, the ancient 
Vos'skyriss Empire was among the richest in the 
world. Its people obsessively imitated snakes— 
their flexibility, their emotionless patience, 
their willingness to survive at any costs (even 
cannibalizing their own kind), and their cold 
detachment. With the help of profane magics, 
most of the Vos'skyriss shed the useless skin 
of their humanity to become like the Betrayer 
God known as the Cloaked Serpent. Those who 
couldn't evolve became food for those who did. 
Seers of the Vos'skyriss 
foresaw the Calam- 
ity, and the empire created an arcane 
sta: 
field under their capital city of Vos'skyriss to 
survive. This site stands off the western coast 
of Tal'Dorei and is now known as Visa Isle. Only 
the strongest were allowed to seek refuge in the 
capital, and decades of carefully tracked tourna- 
ments determined who was fit for survival. 
Ophidian Society. Serpentfolk occupy remote 
temples in jungles, swamps, and deserts. Their 
society enforces strict discipline and a hierarchy 
that rewards those closest to snakes in mind 
and body. Serpentfolk transfigured into massive 
snakes with humanoid arms are held in the high: 
est esteem. 
Despite their god's moniker, the Vos'skyriss 
serpentfolk outlaw hoods so that outsiders in 
their realm are easily recognizable. 
Narcissistic Worship. Most serpentfolk 
have little love for the Cloaked Serpent, though 
they pay him homage as the deity of poisons, 
assassins, and darkness. For the Vos'skyriss 
serpentfolk, worship is a means to an end. Their 
legends say that the devout will be granted the 
ability to devour nightmares, enabling them to 
gorge themselves on dreams of fear and terror 
until they grow so large that they can turn on 
their god and swallow the Cloaked Serpent 
himself, Once begun, this feast is unend- 
ing—they will devour the remaining gods 
one by one, and finally, the entirety of the 
multiverse. 
CHAPTER 6: ALLIES AND ADVERSARIES 
OF TAL 
Vos'skyriss Rising. Several decades ago, Jorlund 
Vohr, professor of archaeology at the Alabaster 
Lyceum, led an expedition to the ruins upon Visa 
Isle—and found them prowled by the restless spirits 
of the serpent empire. Their incursion unleashed 
these entombed spirits, and awakened hundreds 
of their living kin from magical stasis. Now, living 
and undead serpentfolk plot together to rekindle the 
embers of their long-lost em; 
Alignment. Neutral evil. 
"DOREL 
257

--- PAGE 259 ---
S’SKYRISS SERPENTFOLK 
| Large monstrosity 
Armor Class 14 (natural armor) 
Hit Points 60 (8d10 + 16) 
‘Speed 40 ft, swim 40 ft. 
STR 
DEX 
CON 
INT 
WIS 
CHA 
16(+3) 15(+2) 
15(+2) 
12 (+1) 
10(+0) 
14(+2) 
Innate Spellcasting. The serpentfolk’s innate spell 
casting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 12). It can 
innately cast the following spells, requiring no material 
components: 
‘At will: animal friendship, speak with animals (snakes 
only) 
2iday each: sleep, suggestion 
Aiday: pass without trace 
ACTIONS 
Skills Perception +2, Stealth +4 
Damage Immunities poison 
Condition Immunities poisoned 
Senses darkvision 60 ft, passive Perception 12 
Languages Common, Draconic 
Challenge 3 (700 XP) 
Pro’ 
iency Bonus +2 
The serpentfolk makes two scimi- 
tar attacks. 
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., 
one 
creature. Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) piercing damage plus 7 (2d6) 
poison damage. 
Scimitar. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft. 
‘one target. Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) slashing damage. 
Hold Breath. The serpentfolk can hold its breath for 
30 minutes. 
Constrict. Melee Weapon Attack: 
+5 to hit, reach 5 ft., 
one creature. Hit: 7 (1d8 + 3) bludgeoning damage, 
and the target is grappled (escape DC 13). Until this 
grapple ends, the creature is restrained, and the ser- 
pentfolk can’t constrict another target. 
VOS’SKYRISS 
SERPENTFOLK GHOST 
Large undead 
Armor Class 13 
Hit Points 55 (10410) 
Speed 0 ft., fly 40 ft. (hover) 
STR 
DEX 
CON 
INT 
WIS 
CHA 
7(-2) 
16(3) 10(40) 
12(+1) 100) 16 (+3) 
Incorporeal Movement. The ghost can move through, 
other creatures and objects as if they were difficult 
terrain. It takes 5 (1410) force damage if it ends its turn 
inside an object. 
ACTIONS 
Multiattack. The ghost makes two spear attacks. 
Spear. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, 
reach 5 ft. or range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (146 + 
3) piercing damage plus 7 (246) necrotic damage. If 
the ghost makes a ranged attack, its spear rematerial- 
izes in its hands after the attack is resolved. 
Skills Perception +2, Stealth +7 
Damage Resistances acid, fire, lightning, thunder, 
bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing from 
nonmagical attacks 
Damage Immunities cold, necrotic, poison 
Condition Immunities charmed, exhaustion, 
frightened, grappled, paralyzed, poisoned, prone, 
restrained 
Senses darkvision 60 ft. passive Perception 12 
Languages Common, Draconic 
Challenge 4 (1,100 XP) 
Proficiency Bonus +2 
| Ethereal Sight. The ghost can see 60 feet into the 
Ethereal Plane when it is on the Material Plane, and 
) vice versa. 
Eth 
. The ghost enters the Ethereal Plane 
from the Material Plane, or vice versa. It is visible on 
the Material Plane while 
itis in the Border Ethereal, 
and vice versa, yet it can’t affect or be affected by 
anything on the other plane. 
Terrifying Hiss. The ghost emits an uncanny, rasping 
hiss. Each non-undead creature within 30 feet of 
the ghost that can hear it must succeed on a DC 13 
Wisdom saving throw or be frightened 
for 1 minute. A 
frightened target can repeat the saving throw at the 
end of each of its turns, ending the condition on itself 
on a success. If a target's saving throw is successful 
or the effect ends for it, the target is immune to this, 
ghost's Terrifying Hiss for the next 24 hours. 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 260 ---
WRAITHROOT TREE 
Huge plant 
Armor Class 16 (natural armor) 
Hit Points 270 (20412 + 140) 
Speed 30 ft. 
STR 
DEX 
CON 
INT 
WIS 
CHA 
23(+6) 8(-1) 
 24(+7) 
12 (+1) 
16(+3) 
12 (+1) 
Skills Perception +8 
Damage Resistances bludgeoning, piercing 
Damage Vulnerabilities 
fire 
Condition Immunities stunned, frightened, charmed, 
paralyzed, poisoned 
Senses passive Perception 18 
WRAITHROOT TREE 
When ancient or nefarious entities need to safeguard 
objects of grave consequence—particularly items 
intertwined with their immortality—they bury those 
secrets alongside wraithroot trees, around which the 
people of Exandria dare not tread. 
Vengeful Restoration. Wraithroot trees are 
the product of foul necromancy and transmutation 
rituals that first see a tree awakened, gifting it with 
advanced 
intelligence and imbuing its roots with 
mobility. But the awakened tree's first moments of 
joyous awareness are tragically cut short as necro- 
mantic energy courses through it, channeling rage 
and evil 
to transform it into a wraithroot—filled with 
longing to obliterate the life it so fleetingly enjoyed. 
Wraithroot Sites. In Tal’Dorei, wraithroots can 
Languages Common, Druidic, Elvish, Sylvan 
be found in a number of locations, including the 
Challenge 14 (11,500 XP) _ 
Proficiency Bonus +5 
Parchwood Timberlands below Whitestone, the 
Torian Forest along the southwestern edge of the 
Cliffkeep Mountains, the Grey Valley north of 
r, and the 
el 
Grove s 
ist 
of 
False Appearance. While the wraithroot tree remains 
motionless, itis indistinguishable from a normal tree. 
Wraith Shift. On its turn, the wraithroot tree can move 
through other creatures and objects as if they were 
difficult terrain. The tree does not provoke opportunity 
attacks while moving, and must finish its movement in 
‘a space unoccupied by any Large or larger objects or 
creatures. Any Medium or smaller creature in the tree's 
space when it finishes moving is pushed to the nearest 
unoccupied space of the creature’s choice. Medium or 
smaller objects in the tree's space are pushed to the 
nearest unoccupied spaces of the tree's choice. 
ACTIONS 
Muttiattack. The wraithroot tree makes two 
slam attacks. 
Slam, Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 10 ft., 
one target. Hit: 16 (3d6 + 6) bludgeoning damage. 
Rock. Ranged Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, range 60/180, 
ft, one target. Hit: 28 (4d10 
+ 6) bludgeoning damage. 
Wraithstorm (Recharge 5-6). The wraithroot tree pulls, 
life energy from the area around it, leaving creatures 
temporarily frail. Each creature that is not a construct or 
undead within 30 feet of the tree must succeed on a DC 
16 Constitution saving throw or have its speed halved 
and gain vulnerability 
to bludgeoning damage until the 
end of the tree’s next turn. 
Kragl 
the Ashkeeper Peaks, 
Alignment. Neutral evil. 
CHAPTER 6: ALLIES AND ADVERSARIES 
OF TAL’DOREI

--- PAGE 261 ---
VOX MACHINA 
Heroes. Scoundrels. Legends. Dumbasses. 
The legacy of the adventuring party Vox 
Machina is a complicated one. Over the 
course of their adventures, they've selflessly 
saved the lives of thousands of people in 
Tal'Dorei, Wildemount, Issylra, and beyond. 
Of course, there are also countless tales 
of individuals they've bullied, threatened, 
insulted, or otherwise needlessly antago- 
nized throughout those same adventures. 
These legendary figures grew from a band 
of dime-a-dozen sellswords in the swamp. 
burgh of Stilben to gods-blessed warriors 
whose actions might have saved all of Exan- 
dria from a future of undead tyranny. 
‘The deeds of Vox Machina are sung by 
bards across Tal’ Dorei, often exaggerating 
those already belief-defying tales of gods 
and monsters and magic. But though their 
legend has grown wild and unruly, the 
members of Vox Machina are still people. 
More than twenty years have passed since 
their last great campaign. Most of them are 
still alive, 
and the lives of these heroes have 
changed—in big ways and in smaller, more 
subtle ones. 
Those among them who age have 
softer bodies and lines on their faces. 
Those among them who don't age still show the 
weight of the world upon their shoulders. By and 
large, the members of Vox Machina have set aside 
weapons, armor, and spells in favor of more subtle 
ways of helping others. Some lead the lands they 
were born to lead. Others have been elected to the 
Tal’Dorei 
Council, shaping the fate of the cor 
people with quiet wisdom rather than blades and 
battle cries. 
Still, each member of this 
legendary band of 
adventurers would take up arms again in an instant 
if it meant protecting those they care for the most. 
And the Vestiges of Divergence, whose power they 
unlocked in the battles against the Cinder King and 
the Whispered One, are still within their grasp. 
The following stat blocks are here for GMs to use if 
their players encounter a member of Vox Machina. 
hopefully as an ally or a "quest giver,” for woe betide 
anyone who encounters these legendary heroes as 
a foe. These statistics don't represent the full extent 
of the characters’ abilities as 20th-level adventurers, 
but have been streamlined to make them easier for 
the Game Master to run. 
GROG STRONGJAW 
Towering, broad, and ready for battle, Grog Strong- 
jaw is a paragon of raw strength and unwavering 
determination. The son of Stonejaw Strongjaw 
joined Vox Machina in their first meeting in Stilben, 
and went on to defeat his tyrannical uncle Kevdak, 
bear the mythic Titanstone Knuckles, and save Exan- 
dria twice over alongside his companions. 
Kindhearted Berserker. Grog is a man of simple 
pleasures. When he traveled the world with Vox 
Machina, his great loves in life were famously battle, 
‘women, and ale. And though he was renowned for his. 
crass manners, vicious weapons, and relentless battle 
rage, he was just as well known for his love for his 
friends. It was never just about saving the world for Grog. 
Rather, it was about overcoming ever-greater challenge: 
and doing 
so 
side by side with his chosen family. 
After the Epilogue. After the Whispered One's 
defeat, Grog Strongjaw retired to Westruun to live 
with his best friend Pike Trickfoot. Since then, 
he has dedicated himself to learning to read and 
strengthening his mind. In the course of his study of 
letters, shapes, colors, and numbers, Grog has orga- 
nized a quadrennial event in Whitestone that he calls 
the Luncheon of Champions. He personally sends 
a handwritten invitation to the greatest warriors of 
Exandria to battle in an all-out brawl—and then join 
him for lunch and ale. 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 262 ---
CHAPTER 
6: ALLIES AND ADVER: 
Dear Chanvion, = 
Stray 
LUNCHEON 
on the 1 
ot Misa tha 
GROG STRONGJAW 
‘Medium humanoid (half-giant) 
Ager 
INE You 4, tre 
U¢ CHAMPIONS 
« B30PD 
le Whitestone Beary your bert WEPONd © 
Toughness. Grog has an additional 40 hit points. 
ACTIONS 
Armor Class 19 
Hit Points 290 (20d12 + 120 + 40) 
Speed 50 ft. 
STR 
DEX 
CON 
26 (+8) 15 (+2) 22 (+6) 
INT 
8(-1) 
wis 
CHA 
10 (+0) 13 (#1) 
Saving Throws Str +14, Con +12 
Skills Animal Handling +6, Athletics +14, Intimidation 
47, Survival +6 
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 10 
Languages speaks Common, Dwarvish, and Giant 
with limited reading and writing 
Challenge 18 (20,000 XP) 
__Proficiency Bonus +6 
Brutal Critical. When Grog scores a critical hit, he rolls 
double weapon damage dice as usual, then rolls 3 
additional weapon damage dice. 
Feral Instinct. Grog has advantage on initiative rolls. 
‘Melee Master. Grog can take a ~5 penalty to. 
any melee attack roll to gain a +10 bonus to the 
damage roll. 
Reckless. At the start of his turn, Grog can gain advan- 
tage on all melee weapon attack rolls during that turn, 
butattack rolls against him have advantage until the 
start of his next turn. 
Relentless Rage. If Grog is reduced to O hit points 
while raging, he drops 
to 1 hit point instead if he suc- 
ceeds on a DC 10 Constitution saving throw. 
Special Equipment. Grog wears a belt of dwarven- 
kind. He wields the Bloodaxe (a +2 magic weapon), 
a dwarven thrower, and the Titanstone Knuckles 
(see page 211). 
Spelibreaker. When Grog damages a creature that is 
concentrating on a spell, that creature has disadvan- 
tage on the saving throw to maintain its concentration. 
In addition, Grog has advantage on saving throws 
against spells cast by creatures within 5 feet of him. 
$ OF TAL'DOREL 
Grog makes two attacks (three when 
raging) with his Bloodaxe, dwarven thrower, or Titan- 
stone Knuckles. 
Bloodaxe. Melee Weapon Attack: +16 to hit, reach 5 
ft, one target. Hit: 20 (1412 + 14) slashing damage and 
3 (16) necrotic damage. If the target is reduced to O 
hit points, Grog gains 10 temporary hit points. 
Dwarven Thrower. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: 
+417 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 20/60, one target. Hit: 
24 (2d8 
+ 15) bludgeoning damage. 
Titanstone Knuckles. Melee Weapon Attack: +14 to 
hit, reach 5 ft, one target. Hit: 14 (1d4 + 12) bludgeon- 
ing damage. 
Enlarge (Recharges after a Long Rest). Grog casts 
enlarge/reduce on himself 
to grow in size for 10 min- 
utes. While enlarged in this way, he has resistance to 
cold, fire, lightning, and thunder damage. 
BONUS ACTIONS 
Rage (Recharges after 
a Short or Long Rest). Grog 
enters a rage that lasts until he falls unconscious or 
chooses to end it (no action required). While raging, 
Grog gains the following benefits: 
He has advantage on Strength checks and Strength 
saving throws. 
He deals an extra 4 damage when he hits a target 
with a melee weapon attack (included in attacks) 
He has resistance to bludgeoning, piercing, and 
slashing damage 
He can’t be charmed or frightened 
+ He can make an additional melee weapon attack 
(included in the Multiattack action) 
When Grog’s rage ends, he gains one level of 
exhaustion, 
REACTIONS 
‘Opportunist. When a creature within 5 feet of Grog 
casts a spell or deals damage to him, Grog can make 
‘a melee weapon attack against that creature. 
bk

--- PAGE 263 ---
KEYLETH, VOICE OF 
THE TEMPEST 
Many painters across Tal’Dorei have depicted the 
stoic, melancholy visage of Keyleth, Voice of the 
Tempest, as she stands at the edge of a lofty cliff 
of Zephrah, gazing into the rosy sunset beside a 
pink-blossomed tree. In this image, people see a 
leader who has lost much—and sacrificed even 
more—for her people, for her world, and for the fam- 
ily she found on her journeys. 
Hidden Heart. Though Keyleth often looks back 
‘on the life she left behind, she does not dwell on 
the past. She remembers the joy and pain in equal 
measure, keeping her eyes on the horizon to seek 
the next sunrise, not the sunset. In public, she 
is a consummate leader, speaking tactfully, with 
calculated words and poise. Yet when she’s with her 
friends from the old days, particularly Pike, Percival, 
and Vex‘ahlia, her practiced public face falls away, 
revealing the same eager, enthusiastic, idealistic 
Keyleth that she’s always been—just with a few more 
sorrows weighing upon her heart. She keeps a hum- 
ble home in Whitestone near Grey Hunt Manor, close 
to a hidden forest trail she can walk down in peace, 
conjuring snowdrops as she goes. 
After the Epilogue. Keyleth buried herself in 
her duties as Voice of the Tempest after the loss 
of Vax'ildan and the Whispered One's defeat. She 
did everything she could to ally the Air Ashari with 
the rest of Tal’Dorei, and to create a world better 
prepared to unite against threats like the Whispered 
One and the Chroma Conclave. Her heroic repu- 
tation, her political will, and her mighty elemental 
magic gained her many allies, 
but the entrenched 
elite of Tal'Dorei still see her as a potential threat 
to their stability. She rarely adventures anymore, 
preferring to hire others to tackle problems she sees 
arising across Tal’Dorei. But if the world is ever in 
need of an archdruid, she will answer the call. 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SE 
ING: 
REBORN

--- PAGE 264 ---
KEYLETH, VOICE OF 
THE TEMPEST 
‘Medium humanoid (half-elf) 
Armor Class 17 (#2 leather armor, +2 ring of 
protection) 
Hit Points 150 (20d8 + 60) 
Speed 30 ft. 
STR 
DEX 
CON 
INT 
WIS 
CHA 
14 (+2) 15 (+2) 
16(+3) 
15 (+2) 22 (+6) 
15(+2) 
Saving Throws Str +4, Dex +4, Con +5, Int +10, Wis 
+14, Cha +4 
Skills Athletics +8, Insight +42, Intimidation +8, Nature 
+12, Perception +12, Persuasion +8, Stealth +8, 
Survival +12 
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 22 
Languages Auran, Common, Druidic, Elvish 
Challenge 18 (20,000 XP) 
Proficiency Bonus +6 
Fey Ancestry. Keyleth has advantage on saving 
throws against being charmed, and magic can't put 
her to sleep. 
Focused. Keyleth has advantage on Constitution sav- 
ing throws made to maintain concentration on spells. 
Special Equipment. Keyleth wears a circlet 
of wisdom 
(which increases her Wisdom score by 2), #2 leather 
‘armor, and a ring of protection with a #2 bonus. She 
wields the Spire of Conflux (see page 209). 
Spellcasting. Keyleth is a 20th-level spelicaster. Her 
spelicasting ability is Wisdom (spell save DC 22, +14 
to hit with spell attacks). She has the following druid 
spells prepared: 
Cantrips (at will): druidcraft, guidance, mending 
1st level (4 slots): cure wounds, faerie fire, fog cloud, 
healing word, thunderwave 
2nd level 
(3 slots): alter seif(at will), flaming sphere, 
gust of wind, pass without trace 
3rd level (3 slots): call lightning, wind wall 
4th level (3 slots): blight, contro! water, grasping vine, 
| 
polymorph, stone shape 
| 
Sth level (3 slots): conjure elemental, greater 
| 
restoration, scrying, wall of stone 
| 
6th level (2 slots): heroes’ feast, move earth, transport 
via plants 
7th level (2 slots): fire storm, plane shift 
8th level (1 slot): contro! weather 
‘9th level (1 slot): foresight, shapechange 
ACTIONS 
‘Shapechange. Keyleth casts shapechange to 
transform into a planetar, an adult bronze dragon, or 
another creature of CR 20 or lower that is not a con- 
struct or undead. 
‘Meteor (Earth Elemental Form Only). When Keyleth 
falls at least 20 feet, she lands with meteoric force. 
Each creature within 20 feet of her must succeed on a 
DC 19 Dexterity saving throw or take 146 bludgeon- 
ing damage for every 10 feet Keyleth fell. Keyleth stil 
takes falling damage while in earth elemental form. 
Chain Lightning. Keyleth casts chain lightning (spell 
save DC 22) from the Spire of Conflux at a creature 
she can see within 150 feet of her. 
BONUS ACTIONS. 
Wild Shape. Keyleth magically polymorphs into a 
| 
beast or elemental of CR 6 or lower. Her game statis- 
tics are replaced by the statistics of the new form, but 
she retains her alignment, personality, and Intelli- 
gence, Wisdom, and Charisma scores. She also retains 
all of her skill and saving throw proficiencies, in addi- 
tion to gaining those of the new form. She assumes 
the new form’s hit points and Hit Dice and returns to 
the number of hit points she had when she reverts 
to her normal form. Any equipment she is wearing or 
| 
carrying is absorbed or borne by her new form (her 
choice). She reverts to her humanoid form as a bonus 
action, or when she falls unconscious. Her attacks in 
Wild Shape form are magical, and she can cast spells 
while transformed. 
Healing Word (4th Level). Keyleth casts healing word, 
restoring 16 (4d4 + 6) hit points to herself or another 
creature she can see within 60 feet of her. 
CHAPTER 
6: ALLIES AND ADVERSARIES 
OF TALDOREL 
263

--- PAGE 265 ---
PERCIVAL DE ROLO 
Percival Fredrickstein von Musel Klossowski de 
Rolo Hi has endured much in his life. He was a 
young man plagued by personal demons when Vox 
Machina rescued him from a dismal cell in the 
‘Umbra Hills. In those days, Percival de Rolo was 
‘aman driven by vengeance, with only his guns as 
allies, but he took no joy in that life. He has since 
expressed that the thing he's most grateful for is that 
he didn’t die as the person he was, but lived long 
‘enough to grow into someone better, together with 
his beloved Vex’ahlia and their five children, 
VEX’AHLIA DE ROLO 
Vex’ahlia was one of the first members of Vox 
Machina when those adventurers initially met in 
Stilben, along with her twin brother, Vax’ildan. 
Today, she is one of the most influential people in 
Tal'Dorei. She sits on the Tal'Dorei Council as Mas- 
ter of Commerce and is Whitestone’s Grand Mistress 
of the Grey Hunt, a champion of the Dawnfather, 
and a hero beloved by all who know the legend of 
Vox Machina, Her charm and skill with a bow are 
legendary, and she is equally dedicated to changing 
the world as she is to raising 
her five children in 
Father and. 
is deeply d 
to his wife, to his children, and to the enduring 
health of Whitestone. The sorrows of his old life 
still haunt him, though, particularly the creation of 
firearms, But he has done his best to make peace 
with his past, resolving to spend the rest of his days 
creating things that bring joy to the lives of others 
rather than curtailing those lives. His crowning 
achievement is the Heart of Whitestone, a majestic 
clock tower that looms over his city. 
After 
the Epilogue. Percival largely retired from 
wi 
s 
Charming and Incorrigible. As an adventurer, 
Vex’ahlia was known for being resolute and confident 
even in the face of unspeakable despair. The stories 
told of Vex revolve around her cunning, her flirtatious 
charm, and her propensity for haggl 
sion of her impoverished childhood in the wildlands 
of Tal'Dorei. The hardships she has endured and 
overcome have not changed her for the worse, 
though. She is the same Vex'ahlia that is remem- 
bered in the legends, just with a few more gray hairs 
public life not long after the fall of the Whisp« 
One. He now dedicates himself to his duties as a 
leader in Whitestone as much as he can, though he 
is more interested in creating than governing. Most 
of his tinkering happens in private, creating novelties 
such as intricate watches and streetlamps powered 
by volatile reactions with the acid pools beneath his 
city. He has also lent his knowledge to a number of 
feats of civic engineering, including Whitestone’s 
skyport and Zephrah’s network of windmills. 
and sor 
even more ri 
ilities. Even her 
beloved animal companion, the brown bear Trinket, 
is still by her side—though age has slowed him some- 
what. His young cub is now a well-behaved playmate 
for the youngest de Rolo children. 
After the Epilogue. Though she’s better known 
for her archery skill, Vex’ahlia's capability with coin 
made her an easy choice for election to the Tal’Dorei 
Council as Master of Commerce. She makes fre- 
quent use ofa teleportation circle to travel between 
Castle Whitestone and Traverse Junction in Emon, 
making it possible to fulfill her duties to both the 
Chamber of Whitestone and the Tal’Do: 
i 
Though she has generally left her adventuring life 
behind her, she does occasionally sortie with the 
Grey Hunters to eliminate threats to the continued 
peace and prosperity of Tal'Dorei. 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 266 ---
CHAPTER 6: ALLIES AND ADVERSARIES OF TAL'DOREL

--- PAGE 267 ---
PERCIVAL DE ROLO 
‘Medium humanoid (human) 
Armor Class 18 (studded leather) 
Hit Points 190 (20d10 + 40 + 40) 
Speed 30 ft. 
| 
STR 
DEX 
CON 
INT 
WIS 
CHA 
12(+1) 22 (+6) 
14(#2) 20(+5) 16(+3) 
14(+2) 
‘Saving Throws Str +7, Con +8 
Skills Acrobatics +12, History +11, Perception +9, 
Persuasion +8 
Damage Resistances lightning 
‘Senses passive Perception 19 
Languages Celestial, Common, Eivish 
Challenge 18 (20,000 XP) _ Proficiency Bonus +6 
‘Ranged Master. Percy's ranged weapon attacks have 
a #2 bonus to hit (included in attacks), ignore half cover 
and three-quarters cover, and have no range penalty. 
Additionally, Percy can take a -5 penalty to any ranged 
attack roll to gain a +10 bonus to the damage roll. 
‘Special Equipment. Percy wears a ring of light- 
ning resistance and Cabal’s Ruin (see page 203). 
He wields Animus and Bad News, which are both 
+1 weapons. 
Quick Draw. Percy adds his proficiency bonus to ini- 
tiative rolls, giving him a +12 to initiative 
rolls. 
Toughness. Percy has an additional 40 hit points. 
ACTIONS — 
Multiattack. Percy makes four ranged attacks with 
Animus, or two ranged attacks with Bad News. When 
Percy hits with an attack with either weapon, he can 
choose one of the following additional effects: 
Action Surge (2/Short Rest). Once on his turn, Percy 
can take one additional action. 
Cabal’s Ruin. Cabal's Ruin grants Percy advantage 
‘on saving throws against spells or magical effects. 
Additionally, Cabar’s Ruin has 10 charges. When Percy 
hits with a weapon attack, he can expend up to 10 
charges to have the attack deal 106 extra lightning 
damage per charge spent. 
Indomitable (3/Long Rest). Percy can reroll a failed 
saving throw. 
Misfire. When Percy rolls a 2 or lower on the d20 
when making an attack with Animus or Bad News, 
the attack misses and he can't use the weapon again 
until he spends an action to repair it. On a misfire with 
‘Animus, he takes 7 (2d6) psychic damage. 
No Mercy. Percy's weapon attacks score a critical hit 
on aroll of 19-20. 
De 
Percy gains advantage on his next attack 
roll this turn made against the same target. 
Disarm. The target must make a DC 20 Strength sav- 
ing throw. On a failure, the target drops one item itis. 
holding of Percy’s choice. 
Animus. Ranged Weapon Attack: +15 to hit, range 
320 ft,, one target. Hit: 11 (110 + 6) piercing damage 
and 3 (1d6) psychic damage. 
Bad News. Ranged Weapon Attack: +15 to hit, range 
800 ft., one target. Hit: 19 (2d12 + 6) piercing damage. 
REACTIONS 
Absorb Magic (Recharges after a Short or Long 
Rest). When Percy is targeted by an enemy's spell, he 
can absorb a portion of the spell’s energy into Cabai’s 
Ruin. The spell affects him normally, but the cloak 
gains a number of charges equal to the level of the 
spell. When he does so, he also gains resistance 
to 
one type of damage dealt by the spell until the end of 
his next turn. 
TRINKET 
Large beast (brown bear) 
Armor Class 18 (plate) 
Hit Points 61 (6d10 + 18 + 10) 
Speed 40 ft,, climb 30 ft 
STR 
DEX 
CON 
INT 
WIS 
CHA 
19(+4) 10(+0) 
16(+3) 
5(-3) 
13(1) 
 7(-2) 
Skills Perception +10 
Senses passive Perception 20 
Languages understands Common but can't speak it 
Challenge 
5 (1,800 XP) 
Proficiency Bonus +3 
Chosen Companion. Trinket has an additional 10 hit 
points, and has a +6 bonus to attack and damage rolls 
and to Wisdom (Perception) checks. 
Empowered Attacks. Trinket's attacks are treated as 
magical for the purpose of overcoming resistance and 
immunity to damage from nonmagical attacks. 
Keen Smell. Trinket has advantage on Wisdom (Per- 
ception) checks that rely on smell 
Raven's Slumber. if Trinket is reduced to O hit points 
and is within 100 feet of Vex, he is immediately drawn 
into the demiplane within Vex's raven’s slumber and 
stabilized. 
ACTIONS 
Multiattack. Trinket makes two attacks: one with his 
bite and one with his claws. 
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +13 to hit, reach § ft., one 
target. Hit: 14 (1d8 + 10) piercing damage. 
Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: +13 to hit, reach 5 ft. 
one target. Hit: 17 (2d6 + 10) slashing damage. 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 268 ---
VEX’AHLIA 
‘Medium humanoid (half-elf) 
Armor Class 21 (+2 studded leather, #2 ring of 
protection) 
Hit Points 130 (20410 + 20) 
Speed 30 ft, fly 50 ft. (with broom of flying) 
STR 
DEX 
7(-2) 20(+5) 
CON 
INT 
wis 
12(+1) 
14 (#2) 
16 (+3) 
CHA 
17(+3) 
Saving Throws Str +6, Dex +13, Con +3, Int +4, 
+5, Cha +5 
Skills Acrobatics +17, Athletics +4, Deception 
+9, Insight +9, Investigation +8, Perception +15, 
Persuasion +9, Stealth +17, Survival +9 
Damage Resistances cold 
Senses darkvision 60 ft. passive Perception 25 
Languages Abyssal, Common, Draconic, Eivish, 
thieves’ cant, Undercommon 
protection with a +2 bonus. She carries a broom of fly- 
jing and a raven's slumber (see page 197), and wields 
Fenthras (see page 205). 
Spelicasting. Vex is a 13th-level spelicaster. Her spell- 
casting ability is 
Wisdom (spell save DC 17, +9 to hit 
with spell attacks). She has the following ranger spells 
prepared: 
‘st level (4 slots): cure wounds, hunter's mark (see 
bonus actions) 
2nd level (3 slots): pass without trace, protection from 
poison 
3rd level (3 slots): lightning arrow, nondetection 
4th level (1 slot}: freedom of movement, grasping vine 
Trinket. Trinket moves and acts on Vex’s turn, and Vex 
can use a bonus action to command him to take the 
Dash, Dodge, Disengage, or Attack action. She can 
also command him to Attack as part of her Multiattack 
action (see below). Trinket can take only one action on 
each of Vex’s turns. 
ACTIONS 
cI 
18 (20,000 XP) 
y Bonus +6 
Assassinate. During her first turn, Vex has advantage 
‘on attack rolls against any creature that hasn't taken a 
turn. Any hit Vex scores against a surprised creature is 
a critical hit. 
Evasion. If Vex is subjected to an effect that allows 
her to make 
a Dexterity saving throw to take only 
half damage, she instead takes no damage if she 
succeeds on the saving throw, and only half damage if 
she fails. 
Fey Ancestry. Vex has advantage on saving 
throws against being charmed, and magic can't put 
her to sleep. 
Ranged Master. Vex's ranged weapon attacks have 
a 42 bonus to hit (included in attacks), and ignore half 
cover and three-quarters cover, and have no range 
penalty. Additionally, Vex can take a -5 penalty to 
any ranged attack roll to gain a +10 bonus to the 
damage roll 
Sneak Attack (1/Turn). Vex deals an extra 14 (406) 
damage when she hits a target with a weapon attack 
and has advantage on the attack roll, or when the 
target is within 5 feet of an ally of Vex that isn’t inca- 
pacitated and she doesn’t have disadvantage on the 
attack roll. 
Special Equipment. Vex wears +2 studded white 
dragon leather armor of cold resistance and a ring of 
« Vex makes two ranged attacks, and can 
‘command Trinket to move up to his speed and use his 
Multiattack action. 
Fenthras. Ranged Weapon Attack: +16 to hit, range 
600 ft., one target. Hit: 22 (1d8 + 18) piercing damage 
and 3 (1d6) lightning damage, and Vex can use the 
following ability: 
Bramble Shot (2/Short Rest). The attack deals an 
extra 18 (4d8) piercing damage, and the target must 
succeed on a DC 17 Strength saving throw or be 
restrained. The target can repeat the saving throw at 
the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself 
on a success. 
BONUS ACTIONS, 
Cunning Action. Vex takes the Dash, Disengage, or 
Hide action. 
Hunter's Mark. Vex casts hunter's mark to mark a 
creature she can see within 90 feet of her. For 1 hour, 
Vex’s weapon attacks deal an extra 1d6 damage to 
the marked creature, and she has advantage on Wis- 
dom (Perception) and Wisdom (Survival) checks made 
to find it. 
REACTIONS 
Uncanny Dodge. When an attacker that Vex can see 
hits her with an attack, she takes half damage from 
the attack. 
CHAPTER 6: ALLIES AND ADVERSARIES 
OF TALDOREL 
267

--- PAGE 269 ---
PIKE TRICKFOOT 
This little gnome from the Bramblewood has been 
called many things—dragonslayer, savior of Exan- 
dria, champion of the Everlight, Monstah, and, more 
recently, Mom. But Pike doesn't care much what 
people call her, as long as it's said with love. Her soul 
befits the mantle of the Everlight well, as she exudes 
warmth, calm, and comfort. But all that cozy kind- 
ness shelters a fiery, rebellious spark that can shock 
strangers and inspire raucous cheers and peals of 
laughter from her friends. 
After the Epilogue. Pike ultimately returned 
Scanlan Shorthalt’s romantic interest after the 
Whispered One was defeated and Exandria saved 
once more. There was no denying that she loved 
him, and they settled down in Westruun and had two 
children within a year 
of one another, Juniper and 
Wilhand’ildan (Juni and Wax for short). When the 
kids went off to school (one to seminary, the other to 
Westhall Academy), Pike and Scanlan decided to call 
it quits, with sad smiles and promises to always be the 
best of friends. And they've since kept that promise, 
even as the two of them each sought new paths in life. 
as 
Missing her found family, Pike moved to Whites- 
tone and built a temple to the Everlight in the city’s 
Temple Ward. It’s beautiful, small, and cozy—a true 
work of art down to the smallest details. Folk can 
find her there most days, tending to the gardens 
but always ready to lend a helping hand or a prayer. 
Many mornings, Pike swings by the Slayer’s Cake to 
make sure the baked goods remain as tasty as their 
reputation demands. She'll grab some fresh pastries 
and coffee to go, and maybe drop off 
a delivery at 
Kiki’s—that is, Keyleth’s—house. 
Scanlan usually comes by Whitestone in the 
summer, his and Pike's favorite time of year. This is 
a time for simple pleasures—eating dinners with the 
kids and their Auntie Kiki, Auntie Vex, Uncle Grog, 
and Uncle Percy; playing music by the fire; hearing 
Wilhand'ildan and young Vax’ildan de Rolo joke in 
private about their names and their weird family; 
and reminiscing about times past. And sometimes, 
Pike and Scanlan even wind up in bed together, 
though also, sometimes not. Though Pike's path has 
diverged from Scanlan’s in one way, their lives are 
never truly separated—a thing that could be said of 
everyone in Vox Machina. 
TAL’DORE! CAMPAIGN 
SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 270 ---
PIKE TRICKFOOT 
‘Small humanoid (gnome) 
Armor Class 23 (Plate of the Dawnmartyr, shield) 
Hit Points 170 (20d8 + 80) 
Speed 25 ft 
STR 
DEX 
CON 
INT 
WIS 
CHA 
19 (+4) 12(+1) 
18(+4) 
14(42) 20(+5) 14(+2) 
Saving Throws Wis +11, Cha +8 
Skills Athletics +10, Perception +11, Persuasion +8, 
Religion +8, Stealth +7 
Damage Resistances fire; bludgeoning, piercing, and 
slashing from nonmagical attacks 
Condition immunities frightened 
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 21 
Languages Common, Dwarvish, Gnomish, 
Undercommon 
Challenge 17 (18,000 XP) _ Proficiency Bonus +6 
Gnome Cunning, Pike has advantage on Intelligence, 
Wisdom, and Charisma saving throws against magic. 
Special Equipment. Pike wields a mace of disruption 
and wears gauntiets of ogre power, boots of speed, 
and the Plate of the Dawnmartyr. 
Dawnmartyr’s Grace (1/Long Rest). When Pike is 
reduced to 0 hit points while wearing the Plate of 
the Dawnmartyr, she can choose to have a blast of 
healing flame surround her. She regains 1 hit point 
and is lifted to her feet. Each enemy within 10 feet 
of her takes 7 (2d6) fire damage or radiant damage 
(her choice), 
Spelicasting. Pike is a 20th-level spelicaster. Her 
spelicasting ability is Wisdom (spell save DC 19, +11 
to hit with spell attacks). She has the following cleric 
spells prepared: 
Cantrips (at will): light, sacred flame (4d8), spare the 
dying, thaumaturgy 
1st level (4 slots): command, cure wounds, guiding 
bolt, healing word, sanctuary, shield of faith 
2nd level (3 slots): aid, lesser restoration, spiritual 
weapon 
3rd level (3 slots) 
word, 
protection from energy, re 
dead 
4th level (3 slots): death ward, freedom of movement, 
guardian of faith 
Sth level (3 slots): flame strike, greater restoration, 
hallow, mass cure wounds, scrying 
6th level (2 slots): heal, heroes’ feast, planar ally 
7th level (2 slots): resurrection 
8th level (1 slot): holy aura 
9th level (1 slot): mass heal 
lyph of warding, mass healing 
speak with 
ACTIONS 
Mace of Disruption. Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to 
hit, reach 5 ft, one target. Hit: 17 (348 + 4) bludgeon- 
ing damage, plus an extra 7 (2d6) radiant damage if 
the target is 
a fiend or an undead. If the target has 
25 hit points or fewer after taking this damage, it 
must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or 
be destroyed. On a successful save, the creature 
becomes frightened of Pike until the end of her 
next turn. 
Guiding Bolt (5th Level). Ranged Spell Attack: +11 
to hit, range 120 ft., one target. Hit: 28 (8d6) radiant 
damage, and the next attack roll made against the tar- 
get before the end of Pike's next turn has advantage. 
BONUS ACTIONS 
Bottle Priest (5/Long Rest). If Pike uses the Attack 
action, she can make one weapon attack as a 
bonus action. 
Healing Word (4th Level). Pike casts healing word, 
restoring 16 (4d4 + 6) hit points to herself or another 
creature she can see within 60 feet of her. 
REACTIONS 
Dawnmartyr’s Rebuke. When a creature within 5 feet 
of Pike hits her with a melee attack, she can deal 7 
(2d6) fire or radiant damage to it (her choice). 
Everlight’s Guidance (3/Short Rest). When Pike ora 
creature she can see within 30 feet of her makes an 
attack roll, she can grant a +10 bonus to the roll. She 
can grant this bonus after the roll is made but before it 
hits or misses. 
CHAPTER 
LLIES AND ADVERSARIES 
OF TAL’DOREL 
269

--- PAGE 271 ---
270 
SCANLAN SHORTHALT 
Bard extraordinaire, 
champion of the Knowing Men- 
tor, and braggadocious hero of all Exandria 
Shorthalt is the kind of adventurer who will never let 
you forget his name. He's personally ensured that the 
bards spreading his legend across the world will sing 
his praises for decades to come. 
After 
the Epilogue. Scanlan has always been a 
self-centered, showboating braggart, but it doesn't 
mean he doesn't have a heart. These days, friendship 
and family mean more to him than anything, even if, 
he's still not very good at showing it. 
Following the defeat of the Whispered One, 
Scanlan eventually proposed to his long-pursued 
sweetheart, Pike Trickfoot, and they were married 
in a grand ceremony. The duo had a pair of children, 
one named Juniper (Juni) and the other named 
Wilhand’ildan (Wax). When the children were grown 
and in school, Pike and Scanlan amicably divorced 
and went their separate ways, remaining good 
friends—and occasional lovers—but content to follow 
their own paths. 
Scanlan is approaching a century of life, but as a 
longilived gnome, his looks are much as they were in 
his adventuring days except for his slowly receding 
hairline and the slight belly he’s developed. Vanity 
dies slowly, though, and he hides even this modest 
amount of aging with a comb-over, frequent use of 
his trademark beret, and well-placed illusion magic 
when he needs to look portrait 
perfect. 
‘Scanlan likes to sing songs of the Vox Machina 
days to crowded houses in cities across Tal’Dorei. He 
spends his winters in Ank’Harel, where he and his 
daughter Kaylie operate their high-end trading busi- 
ness, Meatman Imports & Sexports. It’s a good job 
that keeps him constantly traveling around Exandria, 
suiting his interest in seeking out new people and 
places around the world—and for new performance 
venues and places to get into trouble, 
Also, he has a mustache now. He thinks it makes 
him look distinguished. 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 272 ---
SCANLAN SHORTHALT 
‘Small humanoid (gnome) 
Armor Class 16 (#2 studded leather, +2 ring of 
protection) 
Hit Points 190 (2048 + 60 + 40) 
Speed 25 ft. 
STR 
DEX 
CON 
INT 
WIS 
CHA 
13 (+1) 11(40) 
16(+3) 
1643) 
7(-2) 
22 (+6) 
Saving Throws Str +3, Dex +7, Con +5, Int +5, Wis 
+0, Cha +13 
Skills Acrobatics +5, Arcana +8, Athletics +6, 
Deception +16, Intimidation +11, Investigation +13, 
Performance +16, Persuasion +16 
Damage Resistances acid 
Senses darkvision 60 ft,, passive Perception 8 
Languages Common, Gnomish, Marquesian 
Challenge 15 (13.000 XP) _ Proficiency Bonus +5 
Gnome Cunning. Scanian has advantage on 
Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma saving throws 
against magic. 
Focused. Scanian has advantage on Constitution sav- 
ing throws made to maintain concentration on spells. 
Special Equipment. Scanian wields Mythcarver 
(see page 207), wears +2 studded leather armor 
of acid resistance and a ring of protection with a +2 
bonus, and carries a hat of disguise and a wand of 
magic missiles. 
Spellcasting. Scanian is a 20th-level spelicaster. His 
spelicasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 19, +11 
to hit with spell attacks). He has the following bard 
spells prepared: 
Cantrips (at will): mage hand, message, minor illusion, 
vicious mockery 
4st level (4 slots): healing word, thunderwave 
2nd level (3 slots): blindness/deatness, hold person, 
invisibility, suggestion 
CHAPTER 6: ALLIES AND ADVERSARIES 
OF TALDOREL 
3rd level (3 slots): counterspell, 
cloud 
4th level (3 slots): dimension door, polymorph, resilient 
sphere 
5th level (3 slots): arcane hand, dominate person, 
modify memory, seeming 
6th level (2 slots): eyebite 
7th level (2 slots): magnificent mansion, reverse 
gravity 
8th level (1 slot): dominate monster 
9th level (1 slot): true polymorph 
Toughness. Scanian has an additional 40 hit points. 
ACTIONS 
Mythcarver. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 
ft,, one target. Hit: 7 (148 + 3) piercing damage and 3 
(106) force damage. 
BONUS ACTIONS, 
Arcane Fist (8th Level). Melee Spell Attack: +11 to hit, 
reach 5 ft,, one target. Hit: 45 (10d8) force damage. 
Scanlan can use this bonus action only while concen- 
trating on the arcane hand spell 
Bardic Inspiration (6/Short Rest). Scanlan grants 
a Bardic Inspiration die to one creature other than 
himself within 60 feet of him who can hear him. Once 
within the next 10 minutes, the creature can roll a. d12 
and add the number rolled to one ability check, attack 
roll, or saving throw it makes. 
When Scanian uses this ability, he gains advan- 
tage on attack rolls with Mythcarver until the end 
of his turn. 
ightning bolt, stinking 
Healing Word (5th Level). Scanian casts healing word, 
restoring 18 (5d4 + 6) hit points to himself or another 
creature he can see within 60 feet of him. 
REACTIONS 
Cutting Words. When a creature Scanian can see 
within 60 feet of him makes an attack roll, an ability 
check, or a damage roll, he can expend a use of Bar- 
dic Inspiration to roll a d12 and subtract the number 
rolled from the creature's roll. The creature also has 
disadvantage on its next saving throw. 
271

--- PAGE 273 ---
272 
DoTy X 
‘Medium construct 
Armor Class 17 (natural armor) 
Hit Points 78 (9d8 + 18 + 20) 
Speed 40 ft. 
STR 
DEX 
CON 
INT 
WIS 
CHA 
1442) 12(+1) 142) 4-3) 100) 6-2) 
TARYON DARRINGTON 
Gleaming, resplendent, and overflowing with 
indefatigable confidence, Taryon Gary Darrington 
is every bit the man he was when he parted ways 
with Vox Machina over twenty years ago. These 
days, though, all the bravado and good cheer he 
had two decades ago is real—not just an act. Tary 
doesn't need to fake it anymore; he's made it. Even if 
responsibility doesn't come easily to him, he takes it 
whenever he has to. 
After the Epilogue. After many years running the 
Darrington Brigade—his heroic adventuring band— 
and publishing several absolutely true accounts 
of their exploits, Taryon realized his adventuring 
checklist was essentially complete. He left his home 
in Deastok, in Wildemount’s Dwendalian Empire, 
and began a new chapter of his life. Leaving the 
brigade in the capable hands of his sister, Maryanne, 
and his confidant Lionel Gayheart, Taryon traveled 
around launching several smaller “satellite” bri- 
gades in Wildemount’s most dangerous lands. 
Then, realizing he had spent his 
career as a writer 
of nonfiction adventure books, he decided to try 
his hand at fiction instead. With his trusty scribe 
and majordomo Doty X at his side (“Doty Ten,” he 
patiently explains to anyone who mispronounces 
it), Taryon and his husband Lawrence moved to 
the Menagerie Coast, setting up in a small writing 
cottage in Port Damali. While Lawrence tutors local 
students, Taryon has been dashing off novel after 
Arcane Surge (4/Day). When Doty hits a target, Tary 
can channel magical energy to deal an extra 14 (4d6) 
force damage to the target as long as Tary is not 
incapacitated. 
Dedicated Servant. Doty has an additional 20 hit 
points, and has a +2 modifier to saving throws, ability 
checks using skill proficiencies, and attack rolls, 
Limited Vocabulary. Doty can say the following words 
in Common: “Tary,” “Yes,” “Correct,” “Absolutely,” 
“Soon,” and “Handsome. 
Saving Throws Dex +4, Con +5, 
Skills Athletics +7, Perception +8 
Damage Immunities poison 
Condition Immunities charmed, exhaustion, poisoned 
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 18 
Languages understands the languages that 
Tary speaks 
Challenge 6 (2,300 XP) 
Proficiency Bonus +3 
. Doty can't be surprised. 
ACTIONS 
Empowered Fist. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, 
reach § ft, one target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) force damage. 
Repair (3/Day). Doty regains 15 (2d8 + 6) hit points. 
REACTIONS 
Defiect. if a creature within 5 feet of Doty that he can 
see makes an attack against a creature other than 
Doty, he can impose disadvantage on the attack roll 
The attacker then takes 6 (1d4 + 4) force damage. 
TAL'DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 274 ---
novel, His most successful books are a series called 
“The Deastok Mysteries,” which feature a young, 
handsome blonde boy who solves crimes around 
Wildemount with his brilliant intellect and trusty 
robot sidekick. 
From time to time, Taryon charters a skyship 
to visit 
his old friends in Whitestone and enjoy the 
memories of their time together as full-fledged mem- 
bers of Vox Machina. 
The Automatic 
Scribe, Doty. Doty 
X is much like 
past models of Tary's mechanical servant—vaguely 
humanoid but not too expressive. The new model 
is sleek and stylish, and not built for battle. Doty's 
vocabulary has grown to six words: “Tary,” “Yes,” 
“Correct,” “Absolutely,” “Soon,” and “Handsome.” 
The scribe also features a builtin shelf 
of Taryon’s 
favorite books—that is, his favorite books that he’s 
written himself—in case Taryon needs to make a 
sale while he’s on holiday. 
TTARYON DARRINGTON 
‘Medium humanoid (human) 
Armor Class 15 (+7 breastplate) 
Hit Points 127 (15d8 + 30 + 30) 
Speed 40 ft, fly 50 ft. (with broom of flying) 
STR 
DEX 
CON 
INT 
WIS 
CHA 
12(4) 11(40) 142) 18(+4) 
8(-1) 
15(42) 
Saving Throws Con #7, Int +9 
Skills Arcana +9, History +9, Perception +4, Survival +4 
Damage Resistances acid, poison 
Condition Immunities poisoned 
Senses passive Perception 9 
Languages Common, Draconic, Gnomish, Syivan, 
Undercommon 
Challenge 9 (5,000 XP) 
Prot 
jency Bonus +4 
Alchemical Defense. Tary’s experimental concoctions 
have granted him resistance to acid and poison dam- 
age, and immunity to the poisoned condition. 
Doty. Doty moves and acts on Tary’s tum, and Tary 
can use a bonus action to command him to use the 
Dash, Dodge, Disengage, or Attack action. He can 
also command him to Attack as part 
of his Multitask 
action (see below). Doty can take only one action on 
each of Tary’s turns. 
Focused, Tary has advantage on Constitution saving 
throws made to maintain concentration on spells. 
Special Equipment. Tary wears a helm of brilliance, a 
robe of useful items, and a ring of the ram. He carties. 
a rod of mercurial form (see page 197), as well as 
a bag of holding, 144 + 4 beads of force, a broom of 
flying, and a chime of opening. 
Spelicasting. Tary is a 15th-level spelicaster. His 
| 
% 
spelicasting ability is Intelligence (spell save DC 16, 
| 
+8 to hit with spell attacks). He has the following 
| 
4 
spells prepared: 
| 
Sy 
Cantrips (at will): mending, prestidigitation, ray of frost 
| 
(38) 
4st level (4 slots): detect magic, heroism, identify, 
. 
shield 
2nd level (3 slots): alter self, branding smite, see 
invisibility, warding bond 
| 
3rd level (3 slots): dispe/ magic, fly, haste, magic circle, 
revivity 
4th level (2 slots): banishment, fabricate, fire shield 
Toughness. Tary has an additional 30 hit points. 
ACTIONS 
Multitask. Tary makes two weapon attacks or casts 
a spell with a casting time of 1 action, and can 
also command Doty to use his Empowered Fist or 
Repair action. 
Mercurial Longsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to 
hit, reach § ft,, one target. Hit: 6 (1410 + 1) slash- 
| 
ing damage. 
Bead of Force. Tary throws a bead of force up to 60 
feet. Each creature within a 10-foot radius of where 
the bead landed must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity 
saving throw or take 12 (5d4) force damage. A sphere 
of transparent force then encloses the area for 1 
| 
minute. A creature that fails the save and is completely | 
within the area is trapped inside the sphere. 
REACTIONS 
Brilliant Intellect. When Tary or another creature he 
can see within 30 feet of him makes an ability check 
or a saving throw, he can use his reaction to add +4 to 
the roll 
CHAPTER 6: ALLIES AND ADVERSARIES OF TAL'DOREL 
273

--- PAGE 275 ---
heroic or how powerful, shall escape their rightful 
place in the 
Yet when his sister Vex 
died ina 
Idan demanded 
that the goddess of death release her claim 
on 
Vex’ahlia’s soul—and claim his instead. 
Inscrutably, the Matron of Raven: 
Vax’ildan’s demand, He donned the Deathwalker’s 
Ward, a Vestige of Divergence imbued with the 
Matron of Ravens’ power, 
and the legendary armor 
of her previous mortal champion. In time, 
Vax’ildan 
too came to be called her champion, and returned 
to life from death more than once—even endur- 
ing utter annihilation by the Whispered One and 
strangulation by an Archfey. 
All these deaths were 
permissible for the Matron of Ravens’ champion, 
since the threads of fate that bound Vax'ildan to her 
service had not yet run their full course. But they 
inevitably did. 
Idan bade farewell to all the people he held 
most dear 
in the wake of the Whispered One's defeat, 
and vanished into the eternal embrace of his god. 
In the years since, his returns to the world he once 
knew have been rare and fleeting. The Champion of 
Ravens is not Vax'ildan, though Vax resides within 
him. He is a loyal arbiter 
of the ineffable providence 
of death 
itself. He appears at times as 
a wrathful 
angel, masked and surrounded by a storm of raven 
feathers, bringing an end to those who would per- 
vert the sanctity of oblivion out of greed or fear of 
the unknown. 
All fear the end, in their own w 
it, delving 
into magic that delays the inevitable by 
making mockery of both life and death. Others 
lash out, hurting people around them in smaller 
. But those whose fears are greatest are met by 
ampion of Ravens, whose 
kind soul soothes 
rds the fearful beyond the veil of the 
mortal world. 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 276 ---
CHAMPION OF RAI 
Medium celestial 
Armor Class 20 (Deathwatker’s Ward) 
Hit Points 150 (20410 + 40) 
Speed 30 t., fly 60 ft. 
STR 
DEX 
CON 
INT 
WIS 
CHA 
14(2) 2045) 142) 16043) 142) 17(+3) 
Saving Throws Str +5, Dex +15, Con +5, Int #13, Wis 
+5,Cha +6 
Skills Acrobatics +9, Intimidation +10, Investigation 
+10, Perception +16, Persuasion +10, Sleight of Hand 
+12, Stealth 19 
Damage Resistances radiant, necrotic, poison; 
bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing from 
nonmagical attacks 
Condition Immunities charmed, exhaustion, 
frightened, unconscious 
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 26 
Languages 
Abyssal, Celestial, Common, Druidic, 
Elvish, thieves’ cant 
Challenge 21 (33,000 XP) 
—_Profici iency Bonus +7 
Assassinate. During his first turn, the Champion has 
advantage on attack rolls against any creature that 
hasn't taken a turn. Any hit the Champion scores 
against a surprised creature is a critical it. 
‘Aura of Protection. While the Champion is conscious, 
he and friendly creatures 
within 10 feet of him have a 
+43 bonus to saving throws (included above). 
Eternal Champion. When the Champion is reduced to 
Ohit points or dies, his body is destroyed but his spirit 
returns to the Raven Queen's side, and he gains a new 
body after 144 days. 
Evasion. If the Champion is subjected to an effect that 
allows him to make a Dexterity saving throw to take 
only half damage, he instead takes no damage if he 
succeeds on the saving throw, and only half damage 
ithe fails. 
Fate-Touched (4/Day). When the Champion makes 
an attack roll, ability check, or saving throw, he can 
reroll the d20 and use either roll. Alternatively, when 
a creature the Champion can see makes an attack roll 
against him, or a saving throw against one of his spells 
or features, he can force that creature to reroll the 
attack or save and use the new roll. 
Innate Spelicasting. The Champion's 
innate spelicast 
9 ability is Charisma (+410 to hit with spell attacks, 
save DC 18). He can innately cast the following spells, 
requiring no material components: 
At will: bane, bless, druidcraft 
‘iday: greater invisibility 
‘Shadow Smite (1/Tum). The Champion deals an extra 
49 (14d6) radiant or necrotic damage (his choice) 
when he hits a target with a weapon attack and he 
doesn't have disadvantage on the attack roll 
| 
Unerring Sight. The Champion's ranged weapon 
f 
attacks ignore half cover and three-quarters cover 
‘and have no range penalty. 
Special Equipment. The Champion wears boots 
} 
of haste (see page 194) and the Deathwalk- 
er’s Ward (see page 204), and wields Whisper 
(see page 211). 
ACTIONS 
Muttiattack. The Champion makes three attacks 
with Whisper. 
Whisper. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +15 to hit, 
reach § ft. or range 60 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (1d4 + 8) 
piercing damage plus 4 (1d8) psychic damage. On a 
Critical hit, the target must succeed on a DC 18 Wis- 
dom saving throw or be frightened of the Champion 
| 
for 1 minute. On a ranged attack, the Champion can 
teleport with Whisper, appearing within 5 feet of the 
target on a hit, or in a random space within 30 feet of 
the target on a miss. 
Touch of Life and Death (Recharges ofter a Short or 
Long Rest). The Champion touches a creature within 
5 feet of him, and chooses to either heal or harm that 
Creature, restoring 55 (10d10) hit points or dealing 55 
(10<10) necrotic damage. Ifthe creature is an unwilling 
target, it can avoid either effect with a successful DC 
20 Dexterity saving throw. 
BONUS ACTIONS 
Cunning Action. The Champion takes the Dash, Dis- 
engage, or Hide action. 
Boots of Haste (1/Day). The Champion clicks his 
heels together, casting haste on himself. He doesn't 
suffer from lethargy when the spell ends. 
REACTIONS 
Uncanny Dodge. The Champion halves the damage 
that he takes from an attack that hits him. He must be 
able to see the attacker. 
CHAPTER 
6: ALLIES AND ADVERSARIES 
OF TAL’DOREL 
275,

--- PAGE 277 ---
INDEX 
A 
Catfolk 41,115,217 
Dungeons 
of Despair 104 
Grey Hunters 76 
‘Abdar’s Promenade 132- 
Gatha 9-10, 107, 169 
Dwarves 152-153 
Grey Hunt Manor 78, 
133, 135, 136 
Cavern of Axiom 111 
Greyskull Keep 135 
‘Aboleths 105,128, 
Gemetery District 134 
E 
Grey Valley 107-108, 
141-143, 217 
Centaurs 87, 218 
Eastern Ruins 80 
Grog Strongjaw 260-261 
Pestle 213 
Centaur skeleton 255-256 
Elemental ancestry 154 
Grotto, the 136 
‘Adranach 104, 141, 
Genter Slab 98 
Elephantine 115 
Guildrunner's Mansion 127 
179, 223-225 
Gentral Dist 
Elvencraft Alliance 
Alabaster Sierras 72-80 
Chained Oblivion 34, 36 
Guildhall 127 
‘Ailtionsmer 13:27, 31 49,94, Chamber 
of Whitestone 50-52 
Elvendawn 9,29 
Half-giant 159-160 
106, 196, 160,239,246 
Champion 
of Ravens 274-275 
Elves 154-156 
Halflings 160-161 
‘Allura Vysoren 21,43,48,56, 
 Changebringer 27-28 
Emberhold 100-101 
Hall of Burning 
‘ST ls at 
Ginderslag elemental 231 
Ember roc 238 
Mushrooms 100 
Arcana Pansophical 46-48, 
Blighted 171-172 
Embertide 9, 28 
Hall of Reason 92 
56, 57, 127, 138, 143, 220 
‘ilization's Dawn 9, 29 
Emerald Citadel 125 
Halls 
of Splendor 104 
Pe a Te S20 
Cer Ondeee $2.53 168,178 
Encrais Gu 130 
Harrowing Return 213-215 
"38, 36,87, 88, 162,218 
NPCs 53 
Emon 130-141 
Harvest’s Close 9 
Asharl 48-50, 226-230 
Clasp Member 
Skyport 138 
Harvest’s Rise 9 
tamer 226, 228 
~ (background) 181-183 
Erudite Quarter 134 
Hearth ofthe Everlight 80 
NPCs 48-50 
Clasp operatives. 232 
Eskil Ryndarien 48,93, 196 
Heart of Whitestone 78 
Skydancer 227, 228 
Catthroat 232 
Everlight 27, 32 
Hemocraft 165, 168, 178, 191 
Stoneguard 228, 229 
setonceg 292) 
Highsummer 9, 32 
Waverider 228, 230 
Clasp, the 53-54 
F 
Hillmaw Chasm 115 
Ashari (background) 180-181 
iifkeep Mountains 93-108 
Fate-Touched 189-190 
Hobgoblins 159 
‘Ashen Gorge 108, 
Gloaked Serpent 34,38,257 
Feats 190-191 
House ofthe Lawhearer 78 
109, 231, 255 
eee page ae 134,137 
Fey 219-220 
Houses of Kraghammer 55-56 
Assum Emring 45, 161 
mobalt Reserve 
58, 
‘eygrove 125 
NPCs 56 
‘Astural Scrolls 41,112,128 
Cobalt Soul, the Library 
of 
First Bastion 91-92 
Humans 161-162 
Azalea Street Park 136 
see also Library 
of the 
Flamereach Outpost 143 
Azgrah 40 
Cobalt Soul 
Flaming skeleton 255, 
1 
Cold snap spirit 234 
Flash Recall (feat) 190 
legal drugs 85 
B 
College of Tragedy 167-168 
Foramere Basin 81-82 
Ironseat Ridge 2-83 
Backgrounds 160-189 
Gracksackle 100 
Forue guardian 83,239,241 
Issvira. 145, 
Beryl Keep 124 
__ Guildhall 100 
Fort Daxio 93-95 
Inyheart Thicket 83 
SSS ey 
Cradle ofthe Adranach 104 
Founding, 
the 13 
Beynsfal Plateau 113-120 
Crawling King 34,37 
Freedom of the waves 
J 
Black Bastille, 
the 62, 
jeruel ea) 190 
(spell) 176 
Jorenn Village 96 
134, 138, 141 
Crystalfen Caverns 11,134, 
Freedom ofthe winds 
Jourracl, the Caedogeist 244 
Black King, the 92 
138, 141, 142, 217 
Gpell) 176 
Bladeshimmer 
Curse 
of Ruin 35,39, 
Frostweald. 110-111 
K 
Shovelin 129-145 
Curse of Suite 35,39 
Keemsone Quarry 99,100 
Blood Domain 168-169 
yelops stormealler 235 
G 
Reyleth, Voice of the Tempest 
Blood Magic 178-179 
a 
Galdrie 40 
49, 71,180, 262-263 
Bottom Slab 98, 99, 100 
Galdric’s Gate 80 
Kedive Xundi 40 
Bowers 
of Recovery’ 104 
Daguerbay 129-130 
Gatshadow 95 
Knowing Mentor 27, 30 
Bramblewood 80-81 
Daggerbay Mountains 130 
stkin 220-221 
Kraghammer 96-100, 152 
Brawler's League 50, 253 
Dawnfather 27, 32 
Gilmore's Glorious Goods, 
‘See also Houses of 
NPCs 50 
Dawnfather Square 77 
90, 140, 194 
Kraghammer 
Bronbog 110 
Day of Challenging 9, 30,138 
Gladepools 121 
Krauhammer goat knight 246 
Bugbears 158, 159 
Deep Solace 9,31 
Gnolls 221 
K’Tawl Swamp 
6 
Byroden 114-115, 116, 
Demonfeed Spider 236 
Gnomes 157-158 
Kymat 83-84 
118, 122, 159 
Divergence, the 16,27 
Goblinkin 158-159 
¥ 
Dividing Plains 80-93 
Goblins 158 
L 
Divine Gate 8, 11,16, 19,23, 
Godsbraw! Ring 138 
en 
ac) 
Calamity, 
the 15-16, 30, 
ie 8 95 LU 
Golden Grin 54-55 
Lawbearer 27,29, 78 
32, 34-39, 74, 75, 113, 
ec neh eg aby 
NPCs 55 
League 
of 
Miracles 23, 24,47, 
115, 146, 200, 219. 
See 
Prego 21) 
Golems 239-243 
56-58, 104, 131, 132, 223 
also Divergence, the 
Drsaniscen BearenlaniieaL10) 
Cobalt 239, 240 
NPCs 58 
Calendar 8-9 
Deiders 219. 
Mage hunter 239, 240 
Lesser Idols 39-42 
Cassandra 
de Rolo 51, 77 
ie es 
Platinum 239, 243 
Libary 
of the Cobalt Sout 30, 
Castle Whitestone 77, 80 
Duergar 153 
Greyfield 78 
39 
276 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 278 ---
Lizardfolk 222 
Lord Mayor's Residence 92 
Lordof the Hells 34 
Lucidian Coast 66-71 
Lyceum Scholar 
(background) 183-185, 
Lyrengorn 101-103, 
155 
M 
Magma landshark 247-248 
Market Ward 90 
Marquet 145-146 
Master adranach 223, 225 
Matron 
of Ravens 32-33 
Memory Ward 124, 127 
Midsummer 9, 29 
Military District 134, 138 
jotaurs 217 
sscar 121-122 
al Fellowship 
Guildhall 127 
Mixed ancestry 163-164 
Moon Domain 169-170 
Moonweaver 27, 33 
Mooren Lake 67 
Mooren River Run 72-73 
Mornset Countryside 114 
Myriad, the 60-61, 84, 132 
NPCs 
61 
Mystic 
Conflux (feat) 190 
N 
Neverfields 103 
New Dawn 9, 28 
Night of Ascension 9, 33 
NiirdalPoc 115-117 
Oath of the Open 
Sea 174-176 
Odessa Tal'Dorei 
45, 138, 196 
Oloore Root 85 
‘One Thousand 
Steps 124, 127 
O'Noa, Ruins of 
Opal Ward 90 
Optional rules 212-215 
Ores 162-163 
Othendin Pass 103 
Questra, the Voice of 
Memory 63, 
112, 123, 
124, 127, 196 
Outwall 135 
Pp 
Palace of Wonder 104-105 
Pale Guard 7¢ 
Parchwood Timberlands 73 
Path of the 
Juggernaut 165-166 
Percival de Rolo 264 
Plainscow 248 
Platinum Dragon 28. 
Pools 
of 
Wittebak 105 
Port of Emon 135 
Pyrah 48, 180 
R 
Ravagers 160, 249 
Slaughter-Lord 249-250 
Stabby-Stabber 249-250 
Reformed Cultist 
(background) 185-187 
Remarkable Recovery 
(eat) 190 
Remnant faithful 251-252 
Chosen 251 
ultist 252 
Remnants, the 38, 
61-62, 251 
NPCs 62 
Republic of 
Tal Dorei 7, 23,24 
ential Ward 90 
Residuum 66, 75, 76, 85. 
Resurrection rules, 
alternative 
213-215 
Reverie Walks 126-127 
Rifenmist 112, 112-114 
Jungle 118-119 
Rivermaw Herd 88 
Rivermaw 
Stormborn 253, 254 
Rootgarden Marsh 67-68 
Ruha-Shak 111-112 
mech 176-178 
Sahuagin 222 
Salar 141, 142 
Salted Bluffs 
Scaled Tyrant 34, 37, 218 
Sear of the Cinder King 143 
Scattered 
War 19, 144, 160, 
Serpents 
Head 106 
Session zero 149, 165 
Shadebarrow 84-86 
Shalesteps 144-145 
Shattered Teeth 146 
Shearing Channel 74 
Shifting Keep, the 123 
Shoreline Farms 135 
Sightless, the 40 
Silvercut 86 
Crossroads 86 
Roadway 86 
Skyships 137 
Slayer’s Cake 78 
Snowdrop. 
Memorial Trail 78 
Southgate Farms 135 
Spellbenders’ Guildhall 127 
Spelldriver (eat) 190 
Spider Queen 34, 35-36 
Spires 
of Yurek 127 
Starshrine, 
the 99 
Stilben 68-69 
Stone 
of the Arch Heart 127 
Stormerest 
Mountains 108-112 
Stormlord 27,30 
‘Stormpoint Mountains 119 
Sun Tree 77-78 
Survivors’ Legacy 92 
‘Suude 85, 124, 144 
‘Syngorn 17, 18, 19, 46, 47, 
123-127, 155 
Tal Dorei Council 
42-46, 131 
NPCs 45-46 
Tarn Ward 124-125 
Temple District 134 
Temple Ward 90 
Terrah 106-107 
Theona Balmhand 55 
‘Thordak 21, 108, 
133, 231, 255° 
‘Throne of the Arch 
Heart 87-88 
‘Thrown Arms Master 
(feat) 191 
Tieflings 163 
Tomb of the Last 
Sovereign 138 
‘Tools 
of the Ashari 198-199 
Torian Forest 88 
‘Tormor Falls 128 
‘Tower 
of Moonlight 127 
‘Towers 
of Farsight 104 
‘Traveler, 
the 40, 42 
‘Traverse 
Junction 136 
Trist Drassig, 40, 84 
Turst Fields 88 
U 
Umbra Hills 107 
Underwalk Ward 90 
Uriel Tal’Dorei 
Il 21,22, 24, 
43, 51, 138, 161 
CHAPTER 6: ALLIES AND ADVERSARIES 
OF TALDOREL 
Ap 
Vaxildan 204,211,262, 
264, 2 
Vertan’ Expanse 120-128 
Vesrah 180, 228 
Vestiges 
of 
Divergence 200-212 
Vex‘ahilia de Rolo 
Vial Sacifee (ea) 191 
Vos'skyriss 
Serpentfolk 257-258 
Vox Machina 260 
Vuesidal Waters 128 
Ww 
Wardens 
of Syngorn 63 
Warren Drassig 18-19 
Way of the Cobalt 
Soul 173-174 
Westhall Academy 91 
Westruun 89-93. 
Whispered One 34, 38 
Whitestone 75-80 
Whitestone Rifle Corps 
(background) 187-189 
Wildemount 146-147 
Wildmother 27, 31 
Wild's Grandeur 9 
Wildwood Byway 93 
Wonderworker, the 58, 196 
Wraithroot Tree 259 
Wrettis 112 
Y 
‘Yug'Voril 101 
Yuminor Observatory 91 
Zan TatDorei 84, 
86, 120, 135 
Zephrah 69-71, 180 
277

--- PAGE 279 ---
278 
INDEX OF ARTISTS 
PAGE 
216 
17,25, 86 
235, 247 
8,146, 
188, 234 
5,142 
(66, 69,72, 74, 
79,81,92,94, 
97, 108, 113, 
121, 126, 139 
226-227, 
229-230 
PAGE 
PAGE 
‘AaronJ. Riley 
153 Ariana Orner 
28-38, 
aaronjriley.com 
@ornerine 
44, 46,48, 
ornerine.tumblr.com 
50-55, 
Adridn Ibarra Lugo 
57,6061, 
63 
@Ailustrar 
160-161, 163 Azra Wheeler 
ailustrar.com 
@Azraillu 
12, 14, 107 
artstation.com/azraelion 
Allie Briggs 
@AllieBriggsArt 
87,252 Biago D'Alessandro 
allie! 
artstation.com/blas-t 
58,261 
Ameera Sheikh 
99,122, Brian Syme 
@Mikandii 
219,256 artstation.com/bryansyme _ 62, 236, 
mikandii.com 
238, 249, 
240, 242-243 Caio Santos 
259 
Andrey Vasilchenko 
@BlackSalander 
artstation.com/artmage 
artstation.com/caiosantos 
272, 274 
Andy Law 
42,112, Clara Daly 
@Hapimeses 
116, 195,197 @EldritchBlep 
cover, 
artstation.com/andylawl 
tinyraptors.com 
3, 224-225 
Anna Grinenko 
@tshortik 
annagrin.squarespace.com 
18,155, Claudia Ianniciello 
184, 199, @ClaudiaSG4 
244 
253 artstation.com/claudiasg 
Conceptopolis, LLC 
conceptopolis.com 
Cyarna Trim 
@Cyarna 
artstation.com/eyarna 
De La Rosa Design, LLC 
delarosadesign.com 
Elisa Serio 
G@ellinainthesky 
elisaserioart.com 
Elliott Berggren 
@planarbindings 
Genel Jumaton 
@GenelJumaion 
artstation.com/geneljumalon 
Hunter Bonyun 
@deerlordhunter 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 280 ---
PAGE 
PAGE 
246 lich Henriquez 
22, 64,70, 
deviantart.comjilacha 
77, 91, 102, 
118, 125, 133, 
140 Isabel Gibney 
147, 191, 200 
@greyopals 
isabelgibney.com 
166-168, 
170-171, 173, 
1, Jessica Nguyen 
175,177,179, 
202-212 @Jessketchin 
242, 278-279 
jessketchin.com 
6 
265 Jessica Scates 
@jessmightwork 
82,182, John Anthony diGiovanni 
11, 148 
223,255 @jadillustrated 
artstation.com/jad 
262, 268,270 Jonah Baumann 
158, 
@Galacticjonah 
241, 257 
galacticjonah.com 
261 Kennef Riggles 
45, 154, 157, 
@kennefriggles 
159, 162, 164 
CHAPTER 6: 
PAGE 
Kent Davis 
109, 137, 
@iDrawBagman 
151, 192, 
artstation.com/idrawbagman 
231 
195 
Lauren Walsh 
@LaurenWalshArt 
laurenwalshart.com 
43,223, 
264 
Lea Bichimaier 
@Jeleynai 
artstation.com/jeleynai 
26,187 
Linda Lithén 
@LindaLithen 
lindalithenart.com 
Nguyen Hiew 
@wth153 
artstation.com/wt 
Nikki Dawes 
@nikkidawesdraws 
nikkidawes.artstation.com 
ALLIES AND ADVERSARIES 
OF TAL’DOREI 
Svetoslav Petrov 
artstation.com/svetoslavpetrov 
Stanislav Dikolenko 
artstation.com/stsdkink 
Wesley Griffith 
@ustwesley 
artstation.com/wesleygriffith 
Zuzanna Wuzyk 
@Zuzartii 
artstation.com/zuzarti 
279

--- PAGE 281 ---
280 
LICENSE 
OPEN GAME LICENSE Ver 
ff 
Wizards ofthe Coast, LLC. ands Copyright 2000 Wizards of the 
Goast. Ine ("Wizards"). All Rights Reserved. 
ion 
1.0a The following text is the property 
1. Definitions: 
Contributors” 
means the copyright 
andjor trademark 
‘owners 
who have 
contributed Open Game Content; (b)'Derivative 
Material” 
means copyrighted 
material including 
derivative works 
and translations 
(including into other 
computer languages), potation, 
‘modification, correction, addition, extension, upgrade, improvement, 
‘compilation, abridgment or other form in which 
an existing work may 
be recast, transformed or adapted; (¢)"Distribute” means to reproduce, 
license, rent, lease, sel, broadcast, publicly display, transmit or other 
wise distribute: (d)"Open Game Content” means 
the game mechan 
‘and includes the methods, procedures, processes 
and routines to the 
extent such content does not embody 
the Product 
Identity and 
is an 
1cement over the prior art and any additional content clearly 
jed as Open Game Content by the Contributor, and means any 
‘work covered 
by this License, including translations and derivative 
works under copyright law, but specifically excludes Product Identity 
(@ "Product klentty” means product and 
product line names, logos and 
Identifying marks including trade dress; artifacts: creatures characters; 
Stories, storylines, lots, thematic elements, dialogue, incidents, 
language, artwork, symbols, designs, depictions, likenesses, formats, 
Doses, cones themes and graph, holographic and ater visa or 
8, Identification: Ifyou distribute Open Game Content You must clearly 
indicate which portions ofthe work that you are distributing are Open 
Game Content 
9, Updating the License: Wizards or its designated Agents may publish 
‘updated versions 
of this License. You may use any authorized version 
ofthis License 
o copy, modify and distribute any Open Game Content 
originally distributed under any version ofthis License. 
10, Copy ofthis License: You MUST include a copy ofthis License with 
every copy of the Open Game Content You Distribute. 
11. Use 
of Contributor Credits: You may not market 
or advertise the 
(Open Game Content using the name of any Contributor unless You have 
«written permission from the Contributor 
to do so. 
12. Inability to Comply: Iit s impossible 
for You to comply with any of 
the terms ofthis License with respect to some or ll ofthe Open Game 
Content due to statute, judicial order, or governmental regulation then 
You may not Use any Open Game Material 
so affected 
13, Termination: This License will terminate automatically if You fail 
to.comply with all terms herein 
and fail to cure such breach within 30 
days of becoming aware of the breach. Allsublicenses shall survive the 
names and 
descrip 
spells, 
eae 
ree 
ira ees 
femey 
ofthis License, 
ies: places, locations, 
5 ereatures, 
magical 
6F supernatural abilities 
or effects logos, symbols, 
or graphic design: 
and any other trademark or registered trademark clearly identified 
as 
Product identity 
by the owner of the Product Id 
hich spe- 
cifically excludes 
the Open Game Content; () "Trademark" means the 
re used by 
a Contributor 
tributed 
to 
Ised" or “Using” 
‘means 
to use, Dist 
-opy, edit, format, modify translate and oth: 
terwise create Derivative Material of Open Game Content. (b) "You" or 
"Your" means the licensee in terms ofthis agreement. 
2. The License: This License applies 
to any Open Game Content that 
contains 
a notice indicating that 
the Open Game Content may only be 
Used underand in terms of this License. You must affix such a notice 
foany Open Game Content that you Use. No terms may be added to or 
subtracted from this License except as described by the License itsel. 
‘No other termsor conditions may 
be applied 
to 
any Open Game Content 
distributed using this License. 
3. Offer and Acceptance: By Using the Open Game Content You indicate 
Your acceptance of the terms of this License 
4.Grant and Consideration: In consideration for agreeing to use this 
License, the Contributors grant You a perpetual, worldwide, royal 
ty-free, non-exclusive license with the exact terms ofthis License to 
Use, the Open Game Cont 
5. Representation of Authority to Contribute: If You are contributing 
Original material as Open Game Content, You represent that Your Con: 
tributions are Your original creation and/or You have sufficient rights to 
grant the rights conveyed by this License. 
6. Notice of License Copyright: You must update the COPYRIGHT 
NOTICE portion ofthis License 
to include the exact text ofthe COPY- 
RIGHT NOTICE 
of any Open Game Content You are copying, modifying 
6F distributing, and You must add the title, the copyright date, and the 
copyright holder's name to the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any original 
Open Game Content you Distribute. 
7. Use of Product Identity: You agree not to Use any Product Identity, 
{including 
as an indication as to compatibility, except as expressly 
licensed in another, independent Agreement with the owner 
of each 
‘element of that Product Identity. You agree not to indicate compatibil: 
ly or co-adaptability with 
any Trademark or Registered Trademark 
{n conjunction with a work containing Open Game Content except as 
expressly licensed in another, independent Agreement with the owner 
‘of such Trademark 
or Registered Trademark. The use of any Product 
Identity in Open Game Content does not constitute a challenge to the 
‘ownership 
of that Product Identity. The owner of any Product Identity 
usd in Open Game Content shall 
tan all gh, le and interest in 
Mu 
1, 
ofthis License is held to be unenforce: 
able, such provision shal be reformed only tothe extent necessary to 
make it enforceable, 
15, COPYRIGHT NOTICE 
Open Game License 1.0a Copyright 2000, Wizards 
ofthe Coast, LLC. 
System Reference Document 5.1 Copyright 2016, Wizards 
of the Coast, 
Inc: Authors Mike Mearls, Jeremy Crawford, Chris Perkins, Rodney 
‘Thompson, Peter Lee, James Wyatt, Robert J. Schwalb, Bruce 
R. Cord: 
cll, Chris Sims, and Steve Townshend, based on original material by E. 
Gary Gygax and Dave Arneson, 
END 
ICENSE 
ADDENDUM TO LICENSE ON BEHALF 
OF CRITICAL ROLE LLC: 
Tal Dorei Campaign Setting Reborn. Copyright © 2021 Darrington 
Press LLC. All Rights Reserved. Allnames, logos, characters, lke 
nesses, characteristics 
and elements related thereto included within 
this work are subject to trademark and copyright protection and are 
‘owned by Critical Role LLC. Authors: Matthew Mercer, Hannah Rose, 
James]. Haeck and John Stavropoulos. 
‘The following items (not including 
any items in the 
Systems Reference 
Document 5.1) included within this work are hereby identified as, 
Product Identity 
of Critical Role LLC with Product Identity 
as defined 
in Section 1(@) of the Open Game License Version 
1.0a set forth above 
License’), and therefore, 
the following tems are not Open Game 
Content as defined in paragraph 1(d of the License above and may not 
be used or reproduced in any form without the prior, writen, express 
‘permission of Critical Role LLC: product and product line names, 
Jogos and identifying 
marks including trade dress; artifacts: ereatures, 
characters: stories, storylines, plots, thematic elements, dialogue, 
incidents, language, artwork, symbols, designs, depictions, 
likenesses, 
formats, poses, concepts, themes 
and graphic, photographie 
and other 
visual 
of audio representations: 
names and deseriptions 
of characters, 
spells, enchantments, personalities, teams, personas, likenesses and 
Special abilities: places, locations, environments, creatures, equipment, 
‘magical or supernatural 
abilities oreffects, logos, symbols, 
or graphic 
designs: and any other trademark or registered trademark clealy ident 
fied as Product Identity 
by Critical Role LLC. 
Any Open Game Content as defined in paragraph 1() 
of the License 
‘above that was used in this work was used pursuant to Section 2 of 
the License above, and this sentence 
is notice thereof as required by 
Section 2 
ofthe License. Any use by others 
of the Open Game Content 
incorporated herein may only be used by those others pursuant to 
Section 2 ofthe License above, No portion ofthis work may 
be used or 
reproduced in any form without the prior, written, express permission 
of Critical Role LLC. 
TAL’DOREI CAMPAIGN SETTING: REBORN

--- PAGE 283 ---
THE ADVENTURE BEGINS 
WELCOME TO TALDORET, a fantasy-filled continent brimming with grand 
tales of heroes and adventure—and eagerly awaiting your own epic stories. Soar 
‘on a skyship from the metropolis of Emon to the distant haven of Whitestone, 
venture into 
wilderness rife with terrifying monsters and wayward mages, and 
uncover magic items that range from simple trinkets to the legendary Vestiges 
of Divergence. 
The hit series Critical Role first explored this continent through the epic 
adventures of Vox Machina. Now the world moves on in their wake. This 
‘campaign setting is newly revised and expanded to cover the exciting conclusion 
of the Vox Machina campaign and the characters’ lives in the years following. 
Let your footsteps, too, shape the fate of Tal'Dorei and perhaps the wider world 
of Exandria. 
This definitive, art-filled tome is revised and expanded, containing everything you 
need to unlock the rich campaign setting of Tal’Dorei and make it your own: 
+ 
A guide to each major region, with story hooks to fuel your campaign 
+ 
Expanded character options, including 9 subclasses and 5 backgrounds 
+ 
Magic items such as the Vestiges of Divergence, legendary artifacts that 
grow in power with their wielders 
+ 
Dozens of creatures, including many featured in the Critical Role campaigns 
+ 
New lore and updated stat blocks for each member of Vox Machina 
The adventure begins. Where will you take it?