--- PAGE 1 (left) ---
THE TORT!

TOMB OF ANNIHIL,


--- PAGE 1 (right) ---
E PACKAGE

TION" SUPPLEMENT

re


--- PAGE 2 (left) ---
INTRODUCTION

The Snout of Omgar is a geographical region described
briefly in Tomb of Annihilation. Not much is revealed
about the location or its inhabitants in that adventure,
however. The Tortle Package is written for Dungeon
Masters who want to know more about the Snout of
Omgar. This supplement also introduces a new playable
character race, the tortle, and a new adventure location:
Dangwaru, the Typhoon Palace.

Tortles are intelligent, turtle-like humanoids that have
a knack for wilderness survival. The race first appeared
in early editions of the D&D game, nowhere more prom-
inently than in module X9, The Savage Coast, which was
set in the world of Mystara. Tortles, like most other ad-
venturous races, can appear on any D&D world. In the
Forgotten Realms, the peninsula of Chult and the Snout
of Omgar make good homes for them.

This supplement assumes that you have the D&D fifth
edition core rulebooks (Player’s Handbook, Dungeon
Master's Guide, and Monster Manual) as well as Volo’s
Guide to Monsters and Tomb of Annihilation.

Text that appears in a box like this is meant to be read
aloud or paraphrased for the players when their charac-
ters first arrive at a location or under a specific circum-

stance, as described in the text.

The Monster Manual, Volo’s Guide to Monsters, and
Tomb of Annihilation contain stat blocks for most of the
creatures found herein, and a handful of new monsters
appear at the end of this supplement. When a creature’s
name appears in bold type, that’s a visual cue pointing
you to its stat block in the Monster Manual. If a stat
block appears elsewhere, the text tells you so.

Spells and equipment mentioned in the adventure are
described in the Player’s Handbook. Magic items are
described in the Dungeon Master's Guide.

THE SNOUT OF OMGAR

The Snout of Omgar was once a peninsula, but upheaval
wrought by the Spellplague broke off the tip of the
peninsula, creating an island separated from mainland
Chult by a narrow strait. When the separation occurred,
tortles living in the vicinity claimed the island as their
domain. The strait provided a natural defense against
aggressive mainland predators.

The tortles of the Snout are hospitable folk who like to
hunt, catch fish, build things, and trade with visitors. Not
long after the island was formed, a pirate ship captained
by a cleric of the sea goddess Umberlee was caught in
a typhoon and swept ashore. Tortles rescued the ship-
wrecked survivors and looked after them. The captain
impressed the tortles with her magic and told stories
that painted Umberlee in a flattering light. In time, she
persuaded them to raise a palace in her deity’s honor.
The cleric chose a mountainside overlooking the sea,
and there the tortles spent a decade building Dangwaru,
the Typhoon Palace, which secretly served as a temple

THE TORTLE PACKAGE

--- PAGE 2 (right) ---
of Umberlee. In return, the cleric and her followers left
the tortles alone and were quiet neighbors.

Over time, the island's Umberlee worshipers died off,
and the palace fell into ruin. Descendants of the tortles
who built the Typhoon Palace soon discovered evil
creatures lurking within. Older tortles wisely shun the
ruined palace, but younger tortles occasionally try to
explore it as a rite of passage. Few of them get far before
strange monsters frighten them away.

UsinG THIS SUPPLEMENT

Here are ways to use this supplement in concert with
Tomb of Annihilation:

+ With your consent, one or more players can create
tortle characters using the rules in the “Tortle” sec-
tion. These tortles have traveled far from the Snout
of Omgar in search of adventure and companionship.
They can join the party in Port Nyanzaru or some
other location in Chult.

+ The party might encounter a tortle NPC willing
to serve as a wilderness guide. This supplement
describes three new tortle guides (see “Tortle
Guides,” page 4).

+ The party might visit the Snout of Omgar, explore its
locations, and encounter its inhabitants.

ADVENTURE HooKs
Here are some hooks you can use to lure characters to
the Snout of Omgar:

+ While traveling by ship around the Chultan peninsula,
the characters are caught in a storm and washed
ashore on the Snout of Omgar, not too far from High
Horn (see “High Horn,” page 18).

+ The commander of Fort Beluarian, Liara Portyr, hires
the adventurers to explore the ruins of the Typhoon
Palace and report back to her. She arranges for a ship
to transport them to Ahoyhoy.

+ The characters hire a tortle guide in Port Nyanzaru
or Fort Beluarian. The tortle tells them stories about
the Typhoon Palace and, as payment for its services,
requests their help in ridding the palace of monsters.

+ The merchant princes of Port Nyanzaru are worried
about the growing number of yuan-ti spies in their city
and fear that the serpent folk are planning to assassi-
nate them. A map of the Snout of Omgar was found on
the body of a slain yuan-ti pureblood spy who tried to
infiltrate Merchant Prince Zhanthi’s household. Zhan-
thi offers a 1,000 gp reward to adventurers who are
willing to visit each of the island’s landmarks and re-
port back to her with news of their discoveries. Zhan-
thi gives them the map and arranges for a fast ship
(the Brazen Pegasus) to transport them to the island.

+ Aship carrying the famous explorer Volothamp “Volo”
Geddarm is missing. It set sail for the southern coast
of Chult and never arrived. Volo’s plan was to visit
beautiful Snapping Turtle Bay, then spend a week at
the tortle fort of Ahoyhoy. (“Tortle hospitality is said to
be second to none!”) Rumors that the ship fell prey to
pirates are false; in fact, the ship capsized in a storm,
and Volo was washed ashore on the Snout of Omgar.

--- PAGE 3 (left) ---
TORTLE

I caught a big fish.
Now I search for a good friend
To share my lunch with.
—Tortle haiku

What many tortles consider a simple life, others might
call a life of adventure. Tortles are born near sandy
coastlines, but as soon as they’re able to walk on two
legs, they become nomad survivalists eager to explore
the wilderness, experience its many wonders, put their
skills to the test, and make new acquaintances.

LIFE OF A TORTLE

A tortle hatches from a thick-shelled egg and spends
the first few weeks of its life crawling on all fours. Its
parents, old and near death, spend what little time they
have left telling stories to their offspring. Within a year,
the young tortle becomes an orphan, though not before
it learns to speak and to survive on its own.

A young tortle and its siblings inherit whatever tools,
weapons, and gifts their parents left behind. Each young
tortle is expected to fend for itself. It leaves the place of
its birth and finds its own corner of the wilderness in
which to hunt, catch fish, and get by. With each passing
year, a tortle hones its survival skills. It forms friend-
ships with its neighbors while also respecting their pri-
vacy. At some point, a tortle feels an almost overwhelm-
ing urge to venture far away from home and see more of
the world. It gathers up its possessions and heads into
the wilderness, returning months or years later with sto-
ries of its exploits and new skills.

When a tortle nears the end of its natural lifespan, it
seeks out a mate and procreates. Tortles lay their eggs
(numbering as few as one or as many as a dozen) ina
fortified compound enclosed by stone walls that are
easily defensible. If no such compound exists, they build
one. The parents spend the remainder of their lives
guarding the compound, defending their offspring, and
sharing a lifetime of knowledge before they die. When
the children are old enough to leave the compound, they
pick up whatever weapons and tools their parents left
behind and set out on their own.

BELIEFS

Tortles don’t have their own pantheon of gods, but they
often worship the gods of other races. It’s not unusual
for a tortle to hear stories or legends related to a god and
choose to worship that deity. In the Forgotten Realms,
tortles are especially fond of Eldath, Gond, Lathander,
Savras, Selfine, and Tymora. In the Greyhawk setting,
they gravitate toward Celestian, Fharlanghn, Pelor,
Pholtus, and St. Cuthbert. Tortles are often drawn to the
Gods of Good in Dragonlance and the Sovereign Host
in Eberron. Among the nonhuman deities, Moradin and
Yondalla relate to tortles most of all.

Tortles believe that night and day watch over them
and other creatures. The moon is the eye of night that


--- PAGE 3 (right) ---
watches over them in darkness, and the sun is the
equally vigilant eye of day. Tortles feel most at peace
when one or both of these “eyes” are looking down on
them. They become more nervous and uneasy when
neither orb is visible in the sky. Tortles tend to be most
uncomfortable underground, where neither the sun nor
the moon is visible to them.

Blessed are the days when both the sun and moon are
visible in the sky at the same time. Tortles often choose
such days to leave their homes and begin a wilderness
expedition, or perform some other task they know to be
dangerous.

ADVENTURERS AT HEART

Tortles have a saying: “We wear our homes on our
backs.” The shells they carry around provide all the
shelter they require. Consequently, tortles don’t feel

the need to root themselves in one place for too long.

A tortle settlement is primarily used as a kind of moot,
where tortles can socialize with one another, share use-
ful information, and trade with strangers in the safety
of greater numbers. Tortles don’t regard these settle-
ments as places worth defending with their lives, and
they will abandon a settlement when it no longer serves
their needs.

Most tortles like to see how other creatures live and
discover new customs and new ways of doing things.
The urge to procreate doesn't kick in until the end of a
tortle’s life, and a tortle can spend decades away from its
native land without feeling homesick.

Tortles embrace a simple view of the world. It is a
place of wonder, and tortles see beauty in the ordinary.
They live for the chance to hear a soft wind blowing
through palm trees, to watch a frog croaking on a lily
pad, or to stand in a crowded human marketplace.

Tortles like to learn new skills. They craft their own
tools and weapons, and they are good at building struc-
tures and fortifications. They marvel at the works of
other civilized creatures, humans in particular, and can
lose themselves for years in a city, studying its architec-
tural wonders and learning skills they can put to use
when building forts to contain their offspring.

Although they spend a considerable portion of their
lives in isolation, tortles are social creatures that like to
form meaningful friendships. They have no inbred an-
imus toward people of other races. In fact, a tortle will
often seek out friendships with non-tortles to learn new
customs and new points of view.

TORTLE NAMES

Tortles prefer simple, non-gender-specific names that
are usually no more than two syllables. If a tortle doesn’t
like its name for whatever reason, it can change it. A
tortle might change its name a dozen times in its life.
Tortles don’t have surnames or family names.

Male and Female Names: Baka, Damu, Gar, Gura, Ini,
Jappa, Kinlek, Krull, Lim, Lop, Nortle, Nulka, Olo,
Ploqwat, Quee, Queg, Quott, Sunny, Tibor, Ubo, Uhok,
Wabu, Xelbuk, Xopa, Yog

THE TORTLE PACKAGE

--- PAGE 4 (left) ---
TORTLE TRAITS

Your tortle character gains traits that enable it to cope
with the perils of a savage world.

Ability Score Increase. Your Strength score in-
creases by 2, and your Wisdom score increases by 1.

Age. Young tortles crawl for a few weeks after birth
before learning to walk on two legs. They reach adult-
hood by the age of 15 and live an average of 50 years.

Alignment. Tortles tend to lead orderly, ritualistic
lives. They develop customs and routines, becoming
more set in their ways as they age. Most are lawful good.
A few can be selfish and greedy, tending more toward
evil, but it’s unusual for a tortle to shuck off order in fa-
vor of chaos.

Size. Tortle adults stand 5 to 6 feet tall and average
450 pounds. Their shells account for roughly one-third
of their weight. Your size is Medium.

Speed. Your base walking speed is 30 feet.

Claws. Your claws are natural weapons, which you
can use to make unarmed strikes. If you hit with them,
you deal slashing damage equal to 1d4 + your Strength
modifier, instead of the bludgeoning damage normal for
an unarmed strike.

Hold Breath. You can hold your breath for up to 1
hour at a time. Tortles aren't natural swimmers, but they
can remain underwater for some time before needing to
come up for air.

Natural Armor. Due to your shell and the shape of
your body, you are ill-suited to wearing armor. Your shell
provides ample protection, however; it gives you a base
AC of 17 (your Dexterity modifier doesn’t affect this
number). You gain no benefit from wearing armor, but if
you are using a shield, you can apply the shield’s bonus
as normal.

Shell Defense. You can withdraw into your shell as
an action. Until you emerge, you gain a +4 bonus to AC,
and you have advantage on Strength and Constitution
saving throws. While in your shell, you are prone, your
speed is 0 and can’t increase, you have disadvantage on
Dexterity saving throws, you can’t take reactions, and
the only action you can take is a bonus action to emerge
from your shell.

Survival Instinct. You gain proficiency in the Survival
skill. Tortles have finely honed survival instincts.

Languages. You can speak, read, and write Aquan
and Common.

TORTLE GUIDES

The following tortle NPCs can be added to the list

of guides available for hire in Chult. One of the tortle
guides, Kwilgok, works for the merchant prince Jobal
in Port Nyanzaru. The others, Eeyal and Mudgraw, are
freelancers operating out of Fort Beluarian and Ahoy-
hoy, respectively.

EEYAL
Tortle guide (Fort Beluarian)
When the characters meet Eeyal, give them handout A
at the end of this supplement.

Eeyal is a tortle (see “Tortles,” page 23) who wears
goggles that she crafted for herself to protect her eyes

THE TORTLE PACKAGE

--- PAGE 4 (right) ---
against volcanic ash. It took her almost a year, but she
traveled from the Snout of Omgar to Fort Beluarian on
foot, crossing Chult through rough mountains, dense
jungles, and undead-infested territory. She’s seen Lake
Luo, the garden palace of Nangalore, the gorge of Ataaz
Muhahah, and the ruins of Mezro. She even found a
shipwreck in the jungle (the wreck of the Narwhal) and
befriended a weretiger that lives there.

Askilled artisan, Eeyal carries a set of smith’s tools
and a set of tinker’s tools. She also owns a climber’s kit,
a healer’s kit, and a dungeoneer’s pack. This equipment
is hooked to a specially crafted leather harness attached
to Eeyal’s shell. Eeyal claims to have the right tool for ev-
ery contingency and is so protective of her gear that she
insists on carrying it all herself.

Eeyal is 5 feet, 8 inches tall and weighs 420 pounds.
Although she’s only 17 years old, her demeanor is com-
parable to that of a much older, much wiser tortle. She
chooses her words carefully and doesn’t take unneces-
sary risks. As she walks through the jungle, she uses
her quarterstaff to poke and prod ahead of her, fully
aware that traps and snares come in many forms.

If the characters hire Eeyal, she recommends that
they also purchase a charter of exploration before leav-
ing Fort Beluarian. Eeyal expects to run into Flaming
Fist patrols, and such meetings can turn sour in a hurry
if one doesn’t carry the necessary paperwork.

Frightened of subterranean places, Eeyal won't vol-
untarily travel underground unless there’s no other
alternative.

Eeyal is trustworthy and charges 5 gp per day. She
also offers a discount rate of 40 gp for a tenday, but the
payment must be made up front and is non-refundable.

KwILGoK
Tortle guide (Port Nyanzaru)

When the characters meet Kwilgok, give them handout
Bat the end of this supplement.

Three years ago, a trade ship visited the tortle fort of
Ahoyhoy, and Kwilgok was able to book passage on it.

In Port Nyanzaru, he discovered a world like no other.
He found work repairing docks and, within a year, had
enough coin to buy a used ankylosaurus, which he rode
in several high-stakes dinosaur races. He lost more than
he won but caught the eye of the merchant prince Jobal,
who convinced him there was more profit in wilderness
exploration. Kwilgok the tortle (see “Tortles,” page

23) became a guide and, like all legitimate guides in
Port Nyanzaru, gives a slice of his earnings to Jobal.

Kwilgok travels with a cantankerous ankylosaurus
named Deadly Treasure. The tortle rides in a howdah
on the ankylosaurus’s back and guides the beast using
a 10-foot pole with succulent leaves tied to one end. Al-
though he doesn’t allow others to ride the beast, many
would-be explorers are so impressed by the dinosaur
that they're happy to pay Kwilgok’s fee of 6 gp per day,
with payment for 30 days up front.

Although he’s an able and honest guide, Kwilgok won't
stick his neck out for his employers. He gets steady work
because of his easy-going demeanor and his willingness
to lead an expedition to any corner of Chult. He has trav-
eled up the River Soshenstar many times and knows

--- PAGE 5 (left) ---
the Aldani Basin and the surrounding region quite
well. He’s also led expeditions to Orolunga, though he’s
never encountered the elusive oracle rumored to dwell
there. One place he’d rather not revisit is Dangwaru, the
Typhoon Palace. When he was young, Kwilgok decided
on a lark to explore the ruins and encountered evil shad-
ows there. The shadows nearly spelled his doom, but
he managed to flee the palace in a weakened state. The
shadows still haunt Kwilgok’s dreams, and he has no
wish to face them again.

Kwilgok is 26 years old, stands just shy of 6 feet tall,
and weighs 450 pounds.

MupGRAw
Tortle druid guide (Ahoyhoy)

When the characters meet Mudgraw, give them handout
Cat the end of this supplement.

Characters who visit the tortle fort of Ahoyhoy can
secure Mudgraw as a guide. Convinced that he is a nat-
ural leader, Mudgraw likes to bellow and be heard, and
he never admits to being wrong, even when he doesn’t
know what he’s talking about. The tortle druid (see
“Tortles,” page 23) can’t pass up a good adventure
and is willing to travel off the island. He has previously
led expeditions to Omu, Shilku, and the Heart of Ubtao.
It’s been five years since he last visited the Heart; conse-
quently, he knows nothing about its current inhabitants.

Mudgraw’s only visit to Omu, three years ago, ended.
in disaster. He and a company of human treasure-hunt-
ers from the city of Athkatla were ambushed by yuan-ti,
and Mudgraw was forced to abandon his companions.
He hid in a ruin that was once a shrine to the god Ubtao,
was transfixed by the maze-like imagery on the walls,
and found a wooden holy symbol left behind by the
shrine’s previous inhabitants. He believes that Ubtao
helped him escape the city and now wears the holy sym-
bol around his neck. He regrets abandoning the expe-
dition and prefers not to speak of it. One of his favorite
new sayings is, “Life is a maze.” Mudgraw uses it when-
ever he’s vexed or when he has information he'd rather
not divulge.

Mudgraw is 44 years old, stands 6 feet tall, and
weighs 480 pounds. He charges 5 gp per day but will
waive his fee if he is given the chance to lead another
expedition to Omu. Mudgraw sees any such expedition
as an opportunity for atonement.

EXPLORING THE ISLAND

A rain forest covers the relatively flat northwest corner
of the island. This rain forest is surrounded by grassy
hills to the north, sandy beaches to the east and west,
and mountains to the south. The tortle fort of Ahoyhoy
stands on the west coast, where the edge of the rain for-
est and the mountains meet.

RANDOM ENCOUNTERS

Roll a d20 three times per day of game time, checking
for encounters each morning, afternoon, and evening

or night. A random encounter occurs on a roll of 18

or higher. Roll a d100 and check the Snout of Omgar
Encounters table for the appropriate terrain. After deter-

--- PAGE 5 (right) ---
mining what the characters encounter, you can use the
information presented below to bring the encounter to
life. Let the players narrate their way through avoiding
easy encounters, or increase the difficulty of easy en-
counters to keep them exciting.

Random encounters aren't tailored to characters of
a particular level. If the characters encounter hostile
creatures beyond their ability to defeat, give them op-
portunities to run, hide, negotiate, or otherwise avoid
certain death. You can also have other creatures arrive
and provide a distraction that the characters can use to
make their escape. For example, if a character needs to
make a crucial ability check or saving throw, a chwinga
(see Tomb of Annihilation) might appear, cast guidance
or resistance on the character, and then disappear on its
next turn.

SNOUT OF OMGAR ENCOUNTERS

Encounter Land Water
Almiraj 01-05 =
Axe beaks 06-10 —
Baboons 1-15 —
Blood hawks 16-20 —
Cannibals 21-25 01-15
Chwinga 26-30 —
Dimetrodons 31-35 —
Dolphins — 16-30
Eblis 36-40 —
Flail snail 41-45 —
Flying snakes 46-50 31-40
Geonids 51-55 —
Giant lizards 56-60 —
Giant snapping turtle 61-65 41-50
Jaculis 66-70 _
Marine decapus — 51-60
Plesiosaurus _— 61-75
Pteranodons 7-75 76-85
Reef sharks - 86-00
Stirges 76-80 —
Topis 81-85 =
Tortle 86-00 —
ALMIRAJ

The characters spot an almiraj (see Tomb of Annihila-
tion) roughly 60 feet away. The almiraj runs from any
creature that approaches within 30 feet of it. Any char-
acter who successfully traps the almiraj can use an ac-
tion to make a DC 14 Wisdom (Animal Handling) check.
If the check succeeds, the almiraj becomes calm and
doesn’t attack the character or run away unless it feels
threatened or is harmed.

AXE BEAKS
A flock of 1d6 + 3 axe beaks stampede toward the char-
acters, slashing at anyone they can reach.

BABOONS

A pack of 3d6 baboons has adapted to living in small
mountain caves but scurry down to the tree line in
search of food. The baboons can be placated by tossing

THE TORTLE PACKAGE

--- PAGE 6 (left) ---
6

each of them a day’s supply of food. Otherwise, they at-
tack, fleeing once their numbers are reduced by half.

BLoop Hawks

These bright red birds are common sights on the island.
They feed on flying snakes, and tortles hunt them for
sport. Blood hawks appear only during the day, and

a typical encounter consists of 2d6 blood hawks that
attack until half of them are slain. If this encounter is
rolled at night, treat it as no encounter.

CANNIBALS

Human cannibals from the mainland use canoes to
reach the island. They come in search of shipwreck
survivors to hunt and eat. The characters encounter
3d6 hostile cannibals (CE male and female Chultan hu-
man tribal warriors) who fight to the death. They wear
leather masks made from skinned human faces and
crude jewelry made from human bones and teeth.

CHWINGA

A chwinga (see Tomb of Annihilation) takes an interest
in the characters. It attempts to steal something valuable
from an unguarded pack, but is noticed by any character
who has a passive Wisdom (Perception) score of 17 or
higher. The chwinga always leaves something else in
exchange: a pretty shell, a handful of nuts, or an uncut
gemstone (10 gp).

DIMETRODONS

If the characters are traveling near the shore, they see
1d4 dimetrodons (see Tomb of Annihilation or Volo’s
Guide to Monsters) wallowing in shallow pools of water.
These creatures turn hostile if disturbed. If the charac-
ters are nowhere near water or camped for the night,
the dimetrodons are on the move and attack anything in
their path.

DOLPHINS

The party encounters 2d4 dolphins (see Volo’s Guide
to Monsters) or 1 killer whale if you prefer. If the char-
acters use magic to speak with the creatures, they can
receive directions to the nearest coastal settlement.

EBLIS
If the characters are on the move when this encounter
occurs, they stumble across 1d4 + 2 eblis (see Tomb
of Annihilation) on the hunt for lizards or flying snakes
to eat. The eblis politely offer to trade information for
treasure. For 50 gp worth of treasure, they will point
the adventurers in the direction of nearby landmarks.
The eblis attack if the characters refuse to trade and
are outnumbered. They flee if half of them are killed or
incapacitated.

If this encounter occurs while the party is camped,
the eblis sneak into the camp and try to drag one char-
acter away.

FLAIL SNAIL

Characters spot the slimy trail of a flail snail (see Tomb
of Annihilation or Volo’s Guide to Monsters). If they de-
cide to follow it, a successful DC 10 Wisdom (Survival)
check correctly deduces which direction the snail was

THE TORTLE PACKAGE

--- PAGE 6 (right) ---
traveling. The snail wants to be left alone and attacks
only those who antagonize it.

FLYING SNAKES

The party encounters 1d6 flying snakes. These snakes
attack only when threatened. A flying snake that is suc-
cessfully grappled can be stuffed in a sack or other soft
container. After 1 hour of confinement, the snake settles
down. A character who succeeds on a DC 13 Wisdom
(Animal Handling) check can remove a calm snake from
the container without causing it to attack or fly away.

GEONIDS

Geonids live in mountain caves, but they can be encoun-
tered anywhere on the island. If the encounter occurs
during the day, the characters are ambushed by 2d4
geonids (see “Geonid,” page 22) disguised as small
boulders. They demand at least 25 gp worth of treasure
for safe passage throughout their territory. If the en-
counter occurs at night, 3d6 geonids attempt to sneak
into the party’s camp and steal food.

GIAnT LIZARDS

The characters encounter 1d6 giant lizards. During the
day, the lizards are well fed and flee if attacked; at night,
they turn aggressive and attack characters who come
within 30 feet of them.

The Snout of Omgar is home to hundreds of giant
lizards. Tortles hunt them for their leather and meat,
and they use the lizards’ bones and teeth to make
crude jewelry.

GIANT SNAPPING TURTLE

These aggressive monsters like to bask on the island’s
warm rocks and shores, but occasionally one will ven-
ture inland to find food. The characters encounter a lone
giant snapping turtle (see Tomb of Annihilation) and
can avoid it by keeping their distance.

JACULIS

Without warning, 1d6 jaculis (see Tomb of Annihilation)
Jaunch themselves at the party from trees or mountain
ledges. Any character with a passive Wisdom (Percep-
tion) score of 14 or higher spots the jaculis before they
strike, but all others are surprised.

MARINE DECAPUS

This marine decapus (see “Decapus,” page 21) preys

on swimmers and will even snatch a rower from a canoe
(though it must use half of its tentacles to grab hold of
the vessel before doing so). The decapus withdraws into
the depths if it loses more than half of its hit points.

PLESIOSAURUS

The characters blunder into the hunting ground of a
hungry plesiosaurus that attacks passing canoes or
anything else it can wrap its jaws around.

PTERANODONS

Pteranodons roost atop the mountains and gather in
flocks to fish along the island’s shores. The characters
spot 1d6 pteranodons nearby. The pteranodons keep
their distance and attack only if threatened.

--- PAGE 7 (left) ---
THEX = 5 MILES

chee! CCP merrae ee PIM IELEN (Oee wwe cern ees (f

Mae 1: St

--- PAGE 7 (right) ---
> GEONID CAVES

tT OF OMGAR

THE TORTLE PACKAGE

--- PAGE 8 (left) ---
REEF SHARKS

The water surrounding the island is home to thousands
of reef sharks that are drawn by the scent of blood in
the water. A swimmer with an open, bleeding wound is
accosted by 1d6 reef sharks if it spends more than 1
minute in the water.

STIRGES

The Snout of Omgar has plenty of caves, ruins, and
trees in which stirges can hide. By day, the characters
disturb 2d6 stirges as they move through the jungle.
At night, the same number of stirges descend on the
party’s camp.

Tops
The characters are attacked by 1d4 + 2 topis (see “Topi,”
page 23) that escaped from the Typhoon Palace.

TORTLE

The characters encounter a tortle (see “Tortles,” page
23). For suggested tortle names, see “Tortle Names,”
page 3. If this encounter occurs near the coast, the
tortle is a fisher with a fishing pole, a net, and a fish bas-
ket. If the encounter occurs inland, the tortle is hunting
snakes, lizards, axe beaks, or blood hawks.

The tortle tries to be helpful. If the characters are
looking for a settlement where they can rest and trade,
the tortle points them in the direction of Ahoyhoy. If
they’re looking for adventure, it points them in the
direction of the Typhoon Palace. If a mystery is what
they seek, it points them in the direction of the Shrine
of Fangs. If they're looking for shipwrecks to plunder, it
directs them toward High Horn. If they’re looking for a
good time, the tortle gives them directions to the Mud
Pits of Florrb.

ISLAND LOCATIONS

The following locations are keyed to map 1.

AHOYHOY

The tortle fort of Ahoyhoy (see map 2) is situated on

the northwest coast of the island. Tortles come here to
socialize, lay eggs, and meet with traders. The place has
no government. Tortles and guests are expected to be on
their best behavior, and those who become a nuisance
are asked to leave—or forced out, if necessary.

At any given time, Ahoyhoy is home to 4d6 adult
tortles (see “Tortles,” page 23), 2d6 young tortles
(noncombatants with AC 14 and 2 hit points each), and
an old tortle druid named Mudgraw (for roleplaying
notes, see “Tortle Guides,” page 4; for statistics, see
“Tortles,” page 23). Four of the adult tortles stand
watch on the ramparts (two in area 3 and two in area 9).
The remainder sleep on woven mats or busy themselves
with crafts and projects (making crossbow bolts, gut-
ting fish, repairing weather damage to the fort, and so
forth). The tortles prefer to sleep without roofs over their
heads. They lay their eggs in special areas covered with
rope nets to protect the eggs from large flying predators.

If the characters prod the tortles of Ahoyhoy for lore
about the island and its inhabitants, each tortle they talk
to shares one piece of useful information. Roll a d8 and

THE TORTLE PACKAGE

--- PAGE 8 (right) ---
consult the Ahoyhoy Lore table to determine what infor-
mation is shared.

AHOYHOY LORE

d8 Lore

1 There are several shipwrecks off the northern
point of the island. Most of the wrecks have been
plundered, but receding sand and water might
reveal something precious yet to be claimed. It’s
safest to explore the wrecks at low tide. A two-
headed dinosaur haunts the shallows at high tide.

2 There’s an old trail leading from Ahoyhoy to
Dangwaru, high up on the mountainside. Tortles
built the Typhoon Palace a century ago for the
survivors of a shipwreck, but it’s been abandoned
for years. Evil spirits now watch over the palace,
which is said to be full of treasure. (If characters
press for more information, share the additional
bits of lore in the “Dangwaru” section.)

3 Awhile back, while hunting flying snakes in the
jungle, | was attacked by shrunken zombies no
bigger than human children. | destroyed a few of
them, and the rest fled. | haven’t seen them since.

4 A trail leads from Ahoyhoy to some mud pits in
the heart of the jungle. If you bathe in a mud pit
for at least an hour, it will fortify you.

5 Carved into the base of the mountains east of
Ahoyhoy is an old shrine that belonged to some
kind of snake cult. It’s a place of mystery and
secrets.

6 Tortles mate and lay eggs when they grow old.
The parents guard the eggs until they hatch, then
share their life experiences with the newborn
offspring. Not long after it learns to walk on two
legs, a young tortle becomes an orphan ready to
make its mark on the world.

7 A ship called the Stirge visits Ahoyhoy often. Its
captain, Laskilar, is an unabashed pirate, but he
always has useful goods to trade. After leaving
the Snout of Omgar, the Stirge usually heads to a
place called Jahaka Anchorage. I’ve never heard of
it, so it must be far away. (For more information
on Captain Laskilar and Jahaka Anchorage, see
Tomb of Annihilation.)

8 The island is home to tiny, harmless elemental
spirits called chwingas. If they like you, they will
give you gifts.

The fort is built atop a rocky shelf that overlooks a
sandy beach. Visitors are free to set up tents on the
beach and conduct trade at the fort. Once every few
months, a ship will drop anchor a few hundred yards
offshore and send crew members in rowboats to trade
with the tortles. For more information on trading with
the tortles, see area 9.

Two trails lead away from Ahoyhoy. The north trail
cuts into the jungle and ends at the Mud Pits of Florrb.
The south trail leads up the mountainside to Dangwaru.

--- PAGE 9 (left) ---
Map 2

1. SouTH GATE
If the characters approach the fort from the south, read:

A multitiered fort stands at the water’s edge, its sturdy
stone walls adorned with large tortoise shells. The trail
leading to the fort ends at a wooden double door. Two
guards stand watch atop the wall east of the gate. They
look like overgrown, bipedal turtles armed with cross-
bows. Outside the gate is a beach where a couple of

wide-bottomed fishing boats are tethered to piers.

See area 9 for more information on the tortle guards.
They are friendly toward visitors who show no outward
signs of hostility.

The double door at the south gate is unlocked but
can be barred shut if the need arises. Forcing open
the barred door requires a successful DC 27 Strength
(Athletics) check. The barred door can also be smashed
open; it has AC 15, a damage threshold of 10, 120 hit
points, and immunity to poison and psychic damage.
The door is 10 feet tall and 12 feet wide, set into a
15-foot-high stone wall. The surrounding walls are also
15 feet high.

Wooden stairs lead down to the beach. The tortle
fishing boats are functionally identical to rowboats (see
chapter 5 of the Dungeon Master's Guide for more infor-
mation on rowboats).

--- PAGE 9 (right) ---
UTE ;

HOYHOY

2. NoRTH GATE AND COURTYARD
If the characters approach the fort from the north, read:

A multitiered fort stands at the water's edge, its sturdy
stone walls adorned with large tortoise shells. The trail
leading to the fort ends at a wooden double door. Two
guards are posted, one on each of the ramparts to each
side of the gate. They look like overgrown, bipedal turtles

armed with crossbows.

The gate doors are identical to those found in area 1.
Two tortles (see “Tortles,” page 23) stand guard on
10-foot-high wooden ramparts that hug the inside of the
wall. Ladders in the courtyard provide easy access to
the ramparts.

Tortles often repair fishing nets in the courtyard,
which is covered with a thin layer of sand. Short flights
of stone steps ascend to adjoining areas. A roofed stable
contains 1d4 boars and 1d4 mules in pens, plus 2d8
chickens in coops. Food for the animals is stored in a
loft. These animals are not indigenous to the Snout of
Omgar; the tortles procured them from visiting traders.

3. LrvING AREA

The ground here is covered with sand. Tortles come
here to sleep on woven mats, sit under shady awnings,
hang fish and meat to dry, cook food over small fires,

THE TORTLE PACKAGE

--- PAGE 10 (left) ---
10

and drink from a central basin that collects rainwater.
They also come here to socialize with one another.

4. FISHING SPACE AND STORAGE

Fishing gear and other supplies are stored here in crates
and barrels. Extending out from the walls are several
long, wooden rods that tortles use to catch fish in the
shallows. A polished metal star attached to a wooden
post is used to catch and reflect sunlight and moonlight.
Tortles use this star as an alarm to warn fishing boats in
the western waters of an attack on the fort.

5. AMPHITHEATER

Ahoyhoy’s tallest feature is a walled amphitheater where
tortles gather to discuss community matters and share
stories. Story time is an occasion the tortles of Ahoyhoy
look forward to, and storytellers are expected to weave
their tales in as entertaining a way as possible. Visitors
are free to participate, either as listeners or storytellers.

6. Ecc HATCHERIES
Ahoyhoy has two large, sand-filled areas set aside as tor-
tle hatcheries. Ropes are strung across these areas from
the tops of the walls, forming nets that prevent pterano-
dons and similar flying predators from stealing the eggs.
There's a 20 percent chance that a hatchery contains
1d12 tortle eggs. If eggs are present, 1d2 elderly tortles
(see “Tortles,” page 23) watch over them. Each tortle
egg weighs 5 pounds. A newborn tortle is usually con-
fined to its hatchery for a few months, until it learns to
walk on two legs.

7. GONG

A gong of beaten bronze wrapped in stitched lizard hide
stands in the middle of the fort. A mallet hangs from the
post it’s attached to. The tortles of Ahoyhoy use a simple
set of gong signals:

+ One bong indicates the arrival of visitors by land.

+ Two bongs indicates the arrival of visitors by ship.
+ Three bongs is a call to gather in the amphitheater.
+ Four bongs indicates that an attack is imminent.

8. SMITHY

The tortles use the easternmost area of the fort for
crafting tools, shields, and weapons. It contains a stone
forge and equipment for metalworking, stone carving,
and hide tanning. In the middle of the area is a primitive
wooden dummy the tortles use for weapon testing.

9. MARKET

This walled area contains the trappings of a market. The
ground is covered with sand, upon which rest woven

mats, wooden stalls, and display tables. A stone sundial
stands in the middle of the market, and stairs lead up to

wooden ramparts that line the southern wall.

Tortles gather here to trade with friendly visitors. Two
tortles (see “Tortles,” page 23) stand guard on the
ramparts, keeping an eye out for visitors or trouble ap-
proaching from the south.

THE TORTLE PACKAGE

--- PAGE 10 (right) ---
The tortles often acquire things they don’t need from
visitors so they can sell them to other visitors. If a char-
acter is looking to buy an item on the Weapons table, the
Adventuring Gear table, the Tools table, or the Trade
Goods table (all in chapter 5 of the Player’s Handbook),
there’s a 25 percent chance that the tortles have such an
item to sell, or to trade for something of equal value. The
tortles buy and sell shields, but not armor.

The Ahoyhoy Goods table contains unusual creatures
and items that can be procured in the tortle settlement.
If the characters want to obtain more than one of a
particular creature or item, roll a d4 to determine how
many the tortles have to sell or trade.

AHOYHoY Goops
Cost Goods
2sp 1b. bushel of red blood hawk feathers
lgp 2 |b. covered basket containing 4 poisonous
snakes or scorpions
2gp 2 |b. basket of ornamental shells or coral
3gp 70 Ib. barrel containing 80 Ib. of coconuts
5gp 5 |b. wooden cage holding an untrained al-
miraj (see Tomb of Annihilation) or a baboon
10 gp 5 |b. wooden cage holding a trained blood
hawk or flying snake
25 gp  Dimetrodon egg or pteranodon egg
50gp Domesticated giant lizard (pack animal)
50 gp Hooded, untrained axe beak on a rope leash
500 gp 500 gp diamond
500 gp 25 Ib. stack of flail snail shell fragments
1,000 gp _— Pouch containing ten 100 gp pearls
5,000 gp 250 Ib. flail snail shell (intact)

DANGWARU (THE TYPHOON PALACE)

The Typhoon Palace (see map 3) has stood for almost a
century. If the characters are of 3rd level or lower, they
will need to rest and recuperate between palace encoun-
ters. They might even need to retreat and regroup a few
times. Characters of 4th level or higher should be able to
clear out the palace with few (if any) rests.

Built by tortles, the palace is a sturdy, multilevel stone
edifice with terraces carved out of the mountainside.
Its name, Dangwaru, loosely translates to “high home”
in Aquan. No one remembers the name of the cleric for
whom the palace was built, but the tortles of the island
know the following bits of lore about Dangwaru and its
original inhabitants:

+ Almost a century ago, a storm caused a ship to crash
near High Horn. After pulling human survivors from
the wreckage and the water, the tortles tried to make
the humans feel at home.

+ The ship's captain was a charismatic woman whom
the tortles admired. She worshiped a sea goddess and
told stories about terrifying sea monsters, great ship
battles, and magnificent island palaces. The tortles
built the Typhoon Palace for her so that she could feel
at home on the island.

--- PAGE 11 (left) ---
+ The captain and her crew lived in the palace for the
rest of their lives. The last of them perished more than
fifty years ago.

+ The palace is dilapidated and haunted. Young tortles
occasionally explore the ruins in search of treasure.
Most don’t get far before strange sounds and shadowy
forms frighten them away.

The tortles built the Typhoon Palace to withstand
storms, earthquakes, and the passage of time. Most of
the damage it has sustained is due to neglect, and the
damage is mostly superficial.

Ceilings within the palace are 15 feet high unless
otherwise noted. The walls are made of plaster-covered
stone. Embedded in the plaster are decorative stones,
oyster shells, starfish, and branches of coral. Doors are
fashioned from thick wood and have no locks.

Several areas contain magical wards that can be by-
passed by anyone wearing a holy symbol of Umberlee.
The characters can find such a device in the wreck of
the Bitch Queen (see “High Horn,” page 18).

1. RUINED PorTICO
If the characters follow the trail south from Ahoyhoy to
Dangwaru, read or paraphrase the following:

The trail clings to the mountainside and winds along the
island's rocky coast for miles before ending at a stone
palace built thirty feet above sea level. Waves crash
against the rocks just below the palace walls.

The palace’s grand entrance features a colonnade of
vine-wrapped pillars that leads to a stone double door
carved with foamy waves that part in the middle. Sec-
tions of the portico’s roof have fallen in, and palm trees
and ferns sprout from between the cracked flagstones.
Scores of harmless lizards use the shaded areas of the
portico as a den. East of the portico is a ten-foot-tall
statue choked with vines. It has the head and torso of
a woman and a twisting wave of water where her legs
should be. Beyond the west side of the portico, an over-

grown garden terrace overlooks the thundering sea.

Slanting beams of sunlight or moonlight shine through
the holes in the portico roof, depending on the time of
day or night. Although the tiny lizards are harmless, a
hostile giant lizard lurks amid the plants in the south-
east corner of the portico. Characters who enter the por-
tico can spot the giant lizard with a successful DC 15
Wisdom (Perception) check. Anyone who comes within
20 feet of it or the portcullis (see area 4) is attacked. The
giant lizard is hungry and fights until slain.

The double door is unlocked and pushes open on
rusty, squealing iron hinges. If the characters have
found a holy symbol of Umberlee amid the wrecks of
High Horn (see “High Horn,” page 18) or elsewhere,
they realize that the splitting waves carved on the dou-
ble door closely match the symbol.

--- PAGE 11 (right) ---
2. STATUE OF UMBERLEE

A 10-foot-tall statue of the sea goddess Umberlee stands
to the east of the palace’s portico. The statue, described
in the read-aloud text for area 1, is harmless.

The ground slopes up to the south, rising 5 feet until it
meets a 5-foot-wide, 8-foot-high crack in the palace wall
that provides access to area 7. The crack is clearly visi-
ble to anyone who enters this area.

3. OVERGROWN GARDEN

Wild ferns and palms dominate this overgrown garden.
Three statues, two depicting sharks and one depicting
an octopus, are mounted atop a three-foot-high stone
retaining wall overlooking the sea. Everything here is
damp with spray from the crashing waves. A stone stair-
case climbs ten feet to a crumbling stone balcony that

stretches southward as it hugs the palace wall.

It’s a 20-foot drop from the garden to the sea. During the
day, the garden is home to harmless lizards, snakes, and
spiders, but nothing dangerous. At night, seven topis
(see “Topi,” page 23) lurk amid the plants and other
wildlife. They try to surprise any character who wanders
into the garden. No treasure is hidden here.

4. ANTECHAMBER AND PORTCULLIS

The palace doors open into an antechamber with a torch
bracket mounted on the west wall. Set into the south
wall is a heavy iron portcullis that can be raised and
lowered using the winch in area 5. Although the port-
cullis is too sturdy to be damaged by weapons, casting
a knock spell on the portcullis raises it. A character can
also lift the portcullis with a successful DC 25 Strength
(Athletics) check, and a Small character can squeeze
between the portcullis bars with a successful DC 20
Dexterity (Acrobatics) check.

5. FEAST HALL

A rusty iron chandelier hangs by a chain above a once-
grand dining table situated in the middle of a large room.
Light dapples the table through holes in the roof, and a
few harmless tropical birds flap about. The tiled floor is
littered with broken dishes, bird droppings, and other
detritus. A wide staircase to the south climbs five feet to
a raised gallery that surrounds the room. Old, framed
pictures of sailing ships hang on the gallery walls. Three
closed sets of doors lead from the upper area to other
parts of the palace. A fourth doorway in the southeast

corner is almost completely blocked by rubble.

This ruined feast hall contains nothing of value. Char-
acters who search the walls, however, find a small iron
key hidden behind one of the framed pictures. The key,
which has a head shaped like an anchor, unlocks the
painted chest in area 18.

THE TORTLE PACKAGE

ist

--- PAGE 12 (left) ---
12

HIISQUARE

THE TORTLE PACKAGE

Map 3: Da

--- PAGE 12 (right) ---
=
3
VEN (RUST IER RRMMITET!, (ffixmeemenne MTOR. if

NARU

--- PAGE 13 (left) ---
The winch mechanism to raise and lower the portcul-
lis (area 4) is on the east wall in the northwest section of
the gallery.

The debris in the southeast corner is the result of a
partial collapse of the roof. It can be cleared by a single
character in 4 hours, or in proportionately less time by
two or more characters working together. Once the de-
bris is cleared, the doorway leads to area 9.

6. ABANDONED QUARTERS

This room contains a number of beds, couches, and
other furnishings, all of which have seen better days.
Plaster has fallen from the ceiling and walls, adding to
the refuse and disarray. Across from the double door, a

narrow window looks out toward the sea.

A search of the room yields nothing of interest or value.
The window is wide enough for a Small or Medium
character to crawl through.

7. RUINED BATH
Characters can enter this room through the door on the
west wall or the 5-foot-wide crack in the north wall.

A sunken bath choked with plant life dominates this
room, the plastered walls of which are set with colorful
coral branches and shells. More plants erupt through
gaps between the flagstones, creating a veritable jungle

in here. A bat flutters about, alerted by your presence.

In addition to the harmless bat, the ruined bath is home
to several harmless lizards, snails, and spiders.

Treasure. A character who searches the 3-foot-deep
sunken bath and succeeds on a DC 13 Wisdom (Percep-
tion) check finds a holy symbol of Umberlee (25 gp) in
the undergrowth; see handout D for an illustration.

8. SHRINE

A stone pedestal stands atop a circular dais in the mid-
dle of this room. Atop the pedestal, facing the double
door to the east, is a ten-inch-tall wooden statuette of

a woman holding a trident, with a shark’s tail instead

of legs. Four iron torch brackets are bolted to the damp
walls, which are covered with peeling plaster and set with
colorful coral branches and starfish. A narrow window

across from the double door looks out toward the sea.

The window is wide enough for a Small or Medium
character to crawl through.

Trapped Relic. The statuette on the pedestal rep-
resents Umberlee. A tortle carved it out of driftwood,
painted it, and gave it to the palace’s Umberlee worship-
ers as a gift. It was placed here so that visitors could
prostrate themselves before the sea goddess.

--- PAGE 13 (right) ---
A glyph of warding spell triggers the first time the
statuette is removed from the pedestal by a creature that
is not wearing a holy symbol of Umberlee. A character
who studies the statuette and succeeds on a DC 15 In-
telligence (Investigation) check spots the nearly invisible
glyph, which is inscribed on the trident. When triggered,
the glyph erupts with magical energy in a 20-foot-radius
sphere centered on it. Each creature in the area must
make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw, taking 22 (5d8)
thunder damage on a failed save, or half as much dam-
age on a successful one.

9. CRAB POOL

A partial collapse of the roof has filled the western door-
way with rubble. Characters can’t use the doorway until
the rubble is cleared away (see area 5 for details).

The plastered walls of this dark room are slick with mois-
ture and set with colorful stones, starfish, shells, and
coral branches. Extruding from the east wall is a stone
sculpture of a giant crab, its pincered arms hugging a
ten-foot-wide stone basin. A trickle of water flows from
the crab’s mouth into the basin. Holes in the basin’s

rim serve as drains to keep the pool from overflowing.
Through a narrow window in the south wall comes the

crash of tidal sea water flowing in and out of a cave.

The tortles built a cistern on the roof that catches rain-
water and channels it through the crab sculpture into
the pool. If a creature bathes in the pool, a dozen crabs
scuttle out of holes in the giant stone crab sculpture to
clean the bather. The process takes 10 minutes. The
crabs are harmless and can be killed normally.

A detect magic spell reveals an aura of transmutation
magic emanating from the pool. The pool has the follow-
ing powers, which an identify spell can ascertain:

+ Acreature that speaks a prayer to Umberlee while
tossing 10 gp or more worth of treasure into the pool
gains the magical ability to breathe water for 24 hours
while retaining its normal mode of respiration. The
treasure vanishes as the blessing is conferred.

+ Any creature that damages the basin must succeed on
a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or be transformed
into a crab for 24 hours. The effect is otherwise
identical to that of the polymorph spell.

Window. The window in the south wall is wide
enough for a Small or Medium character to crawl
through. It looks out into a flooded sea cave (area 12)
and is 25 feet above the water level.

10. CRUMBLING WALKWAY

A stone walkway above the water’s edge has partially
collapsed into the churning sea, leaving wide gaps.
What remains of the walkway is structurally sound. To
cross the damaged area safely on foot, a creature must
succeed on a DC 15 Strength (Athletics) check. If the
check fails, the creature falls 30 feet down a rocky slope,
taking 10 (3d6) bludgeoning damage from the fall and
landing in 10-foot-deep water.

THE TORTLE PACKAGE

13

--- PAGE 14 (left) ---
Characters who ascend the walkway from the north
can circumvent the damaged section by crawling
through the window into area 6, moving through the
palace, and exiting through the window in the west wall
of area 8, from where they can continue to the south.

Seaside Entrance. At the south end of the walkway is
a stone double door. The doors are carved with foaming
waves that part in the middle, and they swing into area
11 on rusty iron hinges.

1l. THRONE ROOM

During the day, sunlight slips through cracks in the ceil-
ing and a window in the west wall, dimly illuminating
the area. On clear nights, moonlight does the same. The
sound of crashing waves is constant, day and night.

Peeling murals adorn the plastered walls of this throne
room, depicting tentacled sea monsters dragging storm-
tossed ships to their doom. Set into the plaster are white
coral branches and mosaics in the form of sharks made
of decorative stones and shells. Pillars carved to look like
thick strands of kelp support the cracked, thirty-foot-high
domed ceiling. Two pairs of wooden statues of turtle-like
humanoids stand on opposite sides of the room. Be-
tween the southern pair extends a dark hallway. A dais
against the east wall supports a granite throne carved

to resemble an octopus. Behind the throne is a double
door, next to which stands a tall clay urn. Set into the
wall opposite the throne is a nine-foot-tall, arched win-

dow that looks out over the sea.

Four shadows lurk here. These undead remnants of
long-dead Umberlee worshipers do their utmost to sur-
prise and kill intruders. They have arms that look like
tentacles, and their Strength Drain attacks have a reach
of 10 feet instead of 5 feet. Otherwise, their statistics are
unchanged. The shadows can't go outside, nor can they
communicate. They fight until turned or destroyed.

The room also contains a mimic, disguised as the clay
urn on the east wall. The mimic preys on creatures dis-
tracted by the shadows or waits to attack someone who
inspects the eastern doors. If the mimic is reduced to
half its hit points or fewer, it attempts to withdraw. The
shadows and the mimic ignore each other.

Statues. The four wooden statues are carved and
painted to look like tortles. They stand 6 feet tall and
weigh 200 pounds each.

Throne. The granite throne weighs 3,000 pounds and
radiates a strong aura of transmutation magic under the
scrutiny of a detect magic spell or a similar effect. An
identify spell reveals its magical properties:

+ Ahumanoid that sits in the throne can use it to cast
the control weather spell without needing compo-
nents. As long as the creature remains seated in the
throne, it doesn’t need to concentrate to maintain the
spell. Leaving the throne ends the effect, whereupon
the weather gradually returns to normal.

THE TORTLE PACKAGE

--- PAGE 14 (right) ---
+ A humanoid that sits in the throne can transform itself
into a sea gull (use the raven statistics without the
Mimicry trait) or an octopus. The effect is identical
to that of a polymorph spell, except the duration is 8
hours and the creature can end the effect on itself at
any time (no action required).

12. SEA CAVE

Sea water rushes in and out of this damp cave, crashing
against the walls and filling the cave with a cold spray.
Clinging to the wall beyond the door is a semicircular
stone balcony. Near the back of the cave hangs a sagging
bridge made of frayed ropes and wooden planks, Be-
tween them, carved into the north wall midway between

the balcony and the bridge, is a narrow open window.

The water here is 20 feet deep and tumultuous. Any
creature that starts its turn in the water must succeed
on a DC 10 Strength saving throw or be dashed against
the walls, taking 2d6 bludgeoning damage, and dragged
1d6 x 5 feet westward or eastward by the current as the
water rushes into the cave or recedes.

Balcony. The stone balcony is 30 feet above the water
and connected to the throne room (area 11) by a stone
double door.

Bridge. The bridge hangs 30 feet above the water and
connects areas 22 and 24. Many of its planks are miss-
ing, and those that remain are rotted and unsafe. When
a character uses the bridge, roll a d6. Ona roll of 1, a
plank snaps underfoot, forcing the character to succeed
ona DC 10 Dexterity saving throw or fall into the water
below. Roll only once per character per crossing. Each
time the bridge loses a plank, increase the DC of future
saving throws by 1.

Window. The window in the north wall is wide
enough for a Small or Medium character to crawl
through. The opening is 25 feet above the water level.

13. RUINED GUARD RoOM
Characters can enter this room through an open door-
way in the west wall or the stone double door to the east.

The outside door of this room has fallen in, and veg-
etation has crept inside. Vines and plants grow amid
wrecked furniture, and tropical birds nest on shelves and
in niches. Stairs to the west curl down to a vast, multi-

level garden terrace.

The furnishings fall apart if disturbed. A search of the
room yields nothing of value.

14. TERRACE GARDEN

During the day, six blood hawks circle the garden at a
height of 60 feet. These aggressive, red-feathered birds
prey on lizards and other small animals, and they gang
up on a character who explores the terraced garden
alone. The blood hawks aren't present at night.

--- PAGE 15 (left) ---
Waves crash against a rocky promontory, built atop
which is a spectacular, multilevel garden, its terraces
overgrown with vegetation and hemmed in by stone walls
with statues of sharks at their corners. Stone steps con-
nect the lower terraces with the higher ones.

Built atop the highest terrace is an ornate, vine-draped
gazebo flanked by palm trees. Cracked steps east of the
gazebo rise to a landing in front of a set of doors carved

to resemble a giant wave that parts in the middle.

Elevation markers on map 3 indicate the heights of the
various terraces above sea level.

In the gazebo lurks a hungry decapus (see “Decapus,”
page 21) that attacks the first creature that comes
within reach. The decapus has advantage on Dexterity
(Stealth) checks made to hide under the gazebo’s roof.

Treasure. The floor of the gazebo is littered with the
remains of past meals, including lizard bones, blood
hawk feathers, and two tortle shells. Amid the refuse is
a ring made of lapis lazuli (25 gp). The ring has a mag-
ical quirk that causes its wearer to experience a recur-
ring nightmare after sleeping for more than 1 hour with
the ring on. The nightmare is vivid: the wearer is en-
gulfed by a sperm whale while clinging to a floating bar-
rel on a stormy sea. After being swallowed whole in the
nightmare, the ring wearer awakens, no worse for wear.

15. CLERIC’s CHAMBERS
The Typhoon Palace's resident cleric of Umberlee
claimed these rooms for herself. The double door to this
suite has a glyph of warding spell inscribed above it that
triggers when a creature passes between the opened
doors. Only a creature wearing a holy symbol of Umber-
lee does not trigger the glyph and can pass through the
doors safely. A character who studies the door frame
and succeeds on a DC 15 Intelligence (Investigation)
check spots the nearly invisible glyph. When triggered,
the glyph erupts with magical energy in a 20-foot-radius
sphere centered on it. Each creature in the area must
make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw, taking 22 (5d8)
cold damage on a failed save, or half as much damage
on a successful one.

When the characters first lay eyes on the cleric’s bed-
chamber, read:

This palatial bedchamber is eerily quiet and still. Cracks
have formed in the blue plaster walls, set into which are
colorful coral branches and seashells. Pillars carved to
resemble tentacles support the vaulted ceiling, which
features a large dome painted to look like the night sky.
Beneath the dome and between the pillars, a large bed
stands atop a wide, circular dais. The bed’s wooden
frame is carved to resemble surging waves. Set into the

north wall are two doors. Dust covers everything.

The bedchamber contains nothing of value. The doors to
the north lead to smaller rooms described below.

--- PAGE 15 (right) ---
Bathroom. The eastern door off the cleric’s bedcham-
ber opens into a tiled bathroom. The bathtub is a long,
rectangular stone basin set in the floor. Pipes connect
the basin to a rain-catching cistern on the roof. Next to
the basin is a stone plug that can be used to keep the
water from draining out through the hole in the bottom
of the basin.

Vestibule. The western door off the cleric’s bedcham-
ber opens into a vestibule where the cleric of Umberlee
kept her personal belongings. Stone shelves stand
against the bare stone walls, and two wooden chests
rest in the middle of the floor.

The shelves contain worthless wooden statuettes of
sea creatures given to the cleric of Umberlee by tortle
admirers, as well as four moldy books that are the logs
from her days as captain of the Bitch Queen. These old
logbooks chronicle the ship's voyages and are worth 25
gp each to an interested buyer in any port city.

The chests are locked, and their keys can be found
in area 24. Picking a lock requires thieves’ tools anda
successful DC 15 Dexterity check. One chest contains
five outfits of traveler’s clothes sized for a large human
female. The other chest holds priestly vestments befit-
ting a cleric of Umberlee and eight iron keys of differ-
ent shapes and sizes. The keys open eight of the nine
chests in area 18. (The ninth key was taken and hidden
in area 5.)

16. KITCHEN AND STORAGE

This kitchen has not been disturbed in years, and its con-
tents are covered with dust and cobwebs. A stone oven
is built into one wall, and narrow doors open into store-

rooms and pantries.

Characters who search the room can salvage enough
material to assemble five mess kits. Any food that was
once stored here has long since perished.

17. HALLWAY

This arched hallway is reinforced with stone buttresses,
between which are painted murals depicting gloomy un-
derwater scenes. A large double door stands to the west,
and a flickering orb is embedded in the wall at the east
end of the hall. Along the hall’s length are two more sets
of double doors, a single door, and two clay urns covered

with dust and cobwebs.

The orb at the east end of the hall is made of crystal and
radiates an aura of conjuration magic under the scrutiny
of a detect magic spell or similar effect. The orb, which
is 1 foot in diameter, sheds bright light in a 30-foot ra-
dius and dim light for an additional 30 feet. Whenever
acreature touches the orb, roll a d6. On a roll of 2 or
higher, the orb teleports the creature to area 24. Ona
roll of 1, the orb malfunctions and emits lightning in a
100-foot-long line as wide as the hall. Each creature in

THE TORTLE PACKAGE

15

--- PAGE 16 (left) ---
the area of effect must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving
throw, taking 14 (4d6) lightning damage on a failed
save, or half as much damage on a successful one. The
orb can’t be removed from its wall fixture. It has AC 10,
1 hit point, and immunity to poison and psychic damage.
Destroying the orb extinguishes its light and renders the
pieces nonmagical.

The doors along the north wall open into the rooms
beyond. The doors to the west and south have hinges on
this side and open into the hallway.

The clay urns are purely decorative and contain noth-
ing of value.

18. TREASURY
When characters peer into this area from area 17, read:

Beyond the double door is a twenty-foot-wide, twenty-
foot-long hallway leading to a dark, pillared chamber
strewn with chests, crates, and other containers. Every-
thing is covered with dust, but not enough to conceal the

broken bones and weapons lying on the hallway floor.

The remains on the floor belong to a pair of long-dead
thieves. Characters who brush away the dust also find
bloodstains and deep scratches on the floor. These clues
suggest the presence of a trap.

Crusher Trap. The 20-foot-square area south of the
double door contains a mechanical trap with a mag-
ical sensor. When a creature enters this area, giant
spring-loaded gears hidden in the walls cause blocks of
stone on either side of the hall to slam together. Only a
creature wearing a holy symbol of Umberlee can move
through the area without triggering the trap. A char-
acter standing north or south of the trapped area can
discern, by looking at the scratches on the floor, that the
walls are movable blocks of stone, but there’s no way to
identify the trap’s trigger or the method of bypassing it
without experimentation or the use of divination magic.

Acreature between the colliding blocks of stone must
make a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw. On a success,
the creature leaps out of the way in whichever direction
it prefers, north or south. On a failed save, the crea-
ture takes 44 (8d10) bludgeoning damage. A creature
reduced to 0 hit points by this damage is crushed toa
pulp. After they slam shut, the blocks take 1 minute to
retract into the walls, whereupon the trap resets.

Sculpted Visage. A wide alcove in the east wall is not
visible from the northern entrance. When characters see
the alcove for the first time, read:

At the back of a recess in the east wall is a giant stone
visage rendered in bas-relief. The face is that of a divinely
beautiful woman with kelp for hair, eyelids like seashells,

and a vaguely menacing half-smile.

The face, which is 12 feet tall and 10 feet wide, rep-
resents the sea goddess Umberlee. It radiates an aura
of transmutation magic under the scrutiny of a detect

16 THE TORTLE PACKAGE
6

--- PAGE 16 (right) ---
magic spell or similar effect. When a creature openly
wearing or brandishing a holy symbol of Umberlee
comes within 10 feet of the face, its mouth opens wide,
creating a 5-foot-diameter opening that allows access

to the caves beyond (area 22). The opening is lined with
rows of triangular teeth similar to those of a giant shark,
but they are easily avoided. The mouth closes after 1
minute but can be reopened from either side.

Treasure. This room contains booty ransacked from
shipwrecks, held in two sealed barrels, nine locked
wooden chests, four clay urns, and four sealed crates.
The Treasury Containers table describes each container
and its contents. Keys that unlock chests 1 through 8
can be found in area 15; the key that unlocks chest 9 is
hidden in area 5. A character using thieves’ tools can
unlock a chest with a successful DC 15 Dexterity check.

TREASURY CONTAINERS

Container Contents

Barrel 1 40 gallons of common wine

Barrel 2 80 pounds of salt

Chest 1 150 gp of Maztican mintage

Chest 2 (scorched Three blank spellbooks (50 gp

by fire) each) and a small wooden case
containing twenty candles

Chest 3 (covered A neatly folded wedding gown and

with claw marks) veil (25 gp)

Chest 4 Aset of alchemist’s supplies and

four flasks of alchemists fire
Chest 5 (rotted) A suit of scale mail (50 gp) anda

steel helm with an electrum fish

mounted atop it (50 gp)

Chest 6 (stained A diplomat’s pack (see the “Equip-

with blood) ment Packs” sidebar in chapter 5
of the Player’s Handbook)

Chest 7 (stamped A spyglass inlaid with mother-

with the crest of of-pearl (1,000 gp), resting ona

Baldur’s Gate) purple velvet pillow

Chest 8 Fifty vials of Zakharan perfume (5
gp each)

Chest 9 (painted A Quaal’s feather token (anchor)

with an image of an buried under 200 gp
anchored ship)

Crate 1 A griffon saddle (60 gp)

Crate 2 (stamped A disassembled 300-pound

with the crest of wooden sled (20 gp), with assem-

Waterdeep) bly instructions in Common

Crate 3 A lute (35 gp), a lyre (30 gp), anda
viol (30 gp) packed in straw

Crate 4 Five heavy crossbows and 100
crossbow bolts packed in straw

Clay urn 1 Empty

Clay urn 2 Empty

Clay urn 3 (painted Ten 50-foot-long coils of hempen
with pegasi images) rope (1 gp each)

Clay urn 4 (painted 10 gallons of dark purple ink
with squid images)

--- PAGE 17 (left) ---
19. GLASs STATUE

This dark, rectangular room contains a seven-foot-tall
glass statue of a scowling woman with octopus tentacles
for arms emerging from dark ocean waves. Three dusty

rugs lie at the statue’s base.

Close inspection reveals that the statue is hollow and
filled with swirling water. The statue has AC 10, 10 hit
points, and immunity to poison and psychic damage. If
the statue is shattered, the water spills out and takes the
form of a water elemental under the command of the
one who released it. The elemental understands Aquan
only and does not heed commands it can’t understand. It
disappears 1 hour after being set free.

20. HAUNTED CAGE

Hanging by a chain from the ceiling of this dark, rectan-
gular room is an old diver’s cage with barnacles clinging
to it. The cage is eight feet tall, five feet in diameter, and
dangles two feet off the floor. Tattered rugs are splayed

out before it. Other furnishings include bare shelves and

painted clay urns, all covered in dust and cobwebs.

The largest rug is a rug of smothering. It attacks the
first creature that disturbs it. The urns contain the
skulls and bones of six dead Umberlee worshipers.

The cage was salvaged from the Bitch Queen (see
“High Horn,” page 18), where it was used for deep-
sea salvaging in shark-infested waters. It was also used.
by the captain to torture and drown prisoners. If a living
creature touches the cage, a neutral merfolk ghost mate-
rializes inside it. The ghost is all that remains of Sibur-
rath, a male merfolk who was captured and tortured
by the Bitch Queen’s captain over a century ago. Sibur-
rath’s ghost can’t leave the cage unless it possesses
someone, and it can’t rest until its torturer is slain.

The ghost tries to possess the first character to come
within 5 feet of it, with the intent of using the host to
find and kill its torturer. If the ghost fails to possess
someone, it tries to persuade the characters (in Aquan
or Common) to help it find peace. The ghost can sense
that its torturer is nearby, but can’t discern the exact lo-
cation. If the characters kill the slug creature in area 24,
the ghost is laid to rest, and the characters receive XP
as though they had defeated the ghost in combat.

Treasure. When the ghost is laid to rest, it leaves
behind a pearlescent conch shell that weighs 2 pounds.
The conch radiates an aura of evocation magic under
the scrutiny of a detect magic spell or similar effect.

An identify spell reveals that the conch is a single-use
magic item with the following property: a creature can
use an action to blow the conch like a horn, creating an
effect identical with that of a Leomund’s tiny hut spell.
The conch disappears once the spell takes effect. The
effect ends if the creature that blew the horn leaves the
spell’s area.

--- PAGE 17 (right) ---
21. LOUNGE

Two sets of double doors lead into this chamber, and a
narrow window between them looks onto an overgrown
garden terrace. The furnishings here have deteriorated
with age. The plastered walls are peeling, and tropical
birds have made nests in the cracked ceiling. A staircase
flanked by marble pillars climbs to a raised stone plat-
form decorated with tattered rugs, cushions, and tapes-
tries. About the room are three clay urns painted with im-

ages of sharks and octopuses, and two rotted couches.

Six topis (see “Topi,” page 23) hide in the clay urns,
two per urn. All six emerge and attack if any urn is dis-
turbed or if the double door to the west is opened.

22. CAVES OF WORSHIP
This area consists of three natural caves connected by
tunnels. Sea mist sprays from the north, and the noise
of crashing waves echoes throughout. Within each cave
is a 5-foot-deep pool of water. Harmless crabs scuttle
across the floor, and glistening snails cling to the walls.
A few smashed barrels and crates are scattered about.
As the characters move through the caves, a hungry
xorn emerges from a wall behind them and demands
food (in Terran). If the characters don’t quickly feed the
xorn at least 50 gp worth of gems or coins, it attacks
them. If the xorn is properly fed or reduced to fewer than
half its hit points, it sinks back into the stone.

23. BLow HOLES

At unpredictable intervals, seawater erupts through
four holes in the floor of this 80-foot-long tunnel and
then rushes back into area 12, dragging creatures in the
tunnel along with it. Roll a d6 at the end of any turn in
which one or more creatures are in the tunnel. On a roll
of 1 or 2, water erupts from the blow holes and quickly
recedes, forcing all Medium or smaller creatures in

the tunnel to make a DC 10 Strength saving throw.

Any creature that fails the save is flushed into area 12,
taking 5 (2d4) bludgeoning damage as it plunges down
the nearest blow hole. If the creature is secured by a
rope, it is swept away only as far as the rope allows but
still takes damage. A character flushed into area 12 can
make a DC 15 Dexterity check to ride a wave back up
through one of the blow holes. On a successful check,
the character takes 5 (2d4) bludgeoning damage and
lands prone in the tunnel.

24. SHRINE OF UMBERLEE

Rising up from the floor of this damp, dark cave is a
grotesque, ten-foot-tall statue of a sea monster with
glistening eyes and tentacles. A raised stone basin, its
base carved to resemble a surging wave, stands nearby.
Against the walls are two smashed crates, two clay urns,

and three rotted wooden chests.

THE TORTLE PACKAGE

ae

--- PAGE 18 (left) ---
The statue depicts a kraken—one of Umberlee’s many
forms. Characters who approach the statue see a crea-
ture clinging to the ceiling behind it:

Clinging to the ceiling behind the statue is a nine-foot-long
slug with glistening black skin and tentacles sprouting

from its head. It opens its mouth, revealing sharp teeth.

The giant slug used to be the cleric of Umberlee for
whom the Typhoon Palace was built. The sea goddess
transformed the cleric as a punishment for some un-
known offense. The giant slug has no recollection of its
previous life and has the statistics of a carrion crawler,
with the following changes:

+ The giant slug has 66 hit points.

+ It has a walking speed and climbing speed of 10 feet.
It can climb difficult surfaces, including upside down
on ceilings, without needing to make an ability check.

+ It can innately cast each of the following spells once
per day, requiring no components: guiding bolt, sanc-
tuary, and spiritual weapon. Its spellcasting ability is
Wisdom (spell save DC 11; +3 to hit with spell attacks).

+ When the slug takes damage in this cave, it can use its
reaction to animate one of the tentacles of the kraken
statue and cause it to make a melee weapon attack (+3
to hit) against one creature within 20 feet of the statue
that the slug can see. The tentacle deals 8 (1d8 + 4)
bludgeoning damage on a hit.

+ It has darkvision out to a range of 60 feet.

+ It understands Abyssal, Aquan, and Common, but
can't speak.

+ It has a challenge rating of 3 (700 XP).

Also present are two shadows similar to those found
in area 11. They emerge from behind the kraken statue
and attack if the giant slug is harmed. If the slug is
reduced to 11 hit points or fewer, it casts sanctuary on
itself and cowers behind the kraken statue.

Statue and Holy Symbol. The statue weighs 5,000
pounds and is covered with slimy mildew. Lying on the
floor behind the statue is a holy symbol of Umberlee
(25 gp) that has a minor magical quirk: when carried or
worn by someone who is not a worshiper of Umberlee,
the holy symbol fills its owner with a sense of dread.
This holy symbol once belonged to the cleric of Umber-
lee, but she has no use for it in her current form. See
handout D for an illustration of the holy symbol.

Stone Basin. The cleric of Umberlee used this basin
as a scrying pool. Pipes built into its base fill the basin
with seawater until it overflows. At the bottom of the
basin, under 10 gallons of seawater, are two rusty iron
keys. The keys unlock the chests in area 15.

Treasure. The smashed crates, the clay urns, and
two of the rotting chests are empty. The third chest is
unlocked and contains 120 sp and 70 cp in a moldy sack
(tribute to Umberlee), two potions of healing in flasks
made from hollowed-out sea urchins, a driftglobe, and a
coral crown (250 gp).

Development. Killing the giant slug lays the spirit of
Siburrath (See area 20) to rest.

18 THE TORTLE PACKAGE
é

--- PAGE 18 (right) ---
GEONID CAVES

The mountains are riddled with natural caves that have

been taken over and expanded by geonids. Each lair is a
small labyrinth of twisting tunnels and chambers inhab-
ited by 2d6 geonids (see “Geonid,” page 22).

Each cave system is strewn with the bones of the geo-
nids’ past meals (bats, rats, and lizards, mostly). There
is a 30 percent chance that the geonids share their lair
either with a flail snail (see Tomb of Annihilation or
Volo’s Guide to Monsters) that doesn’t react kindly to
intruders or a gluttonous xorn that demands gemstones
for safe passage.

TREASURE

Geonids hide their treasure at the back of their lairs. A
thorough search of the deepest cave uncovers 2d10 gp
worth of stone jewelry and art objects (carved figurines,
talismans, and the like), as well as 1d4 uncut gemstones
worth 10 gp each. Each time the characters find such a
hoard, there’s a cumulative 20 percent chance that the
trove includes a 6-inch-tall obsidian figurine of a coiled
serpent god (25 gp). Only one such relic can be found. A
geonid stole it from the Shrine of Fangs, and its return
completes a quest (see “Shrine of Fangs,” page 20).

HicH Horn

Standing atop a rocky crag at the northernmost tip of the
island, facing northwest, is a thirty-foot-tall stone statue
of a turtle-like humanoid with a large stone horn held up
to its mouth. Below the monument is a stretch of sandy

beach covered with shells. Black, moss-covered rocks jut
from the water like teeth worn down by time. Just beyond

these “teeth” are several barnacle-covered shipwrecks.

The statue depicts a long-dead tortle named Gumdarr,
who heard a ship crash on the rocks and stood atop the
crag to get a better look. He blew a horn to lure other
tortles to the beach, and together they fished out the sur-
vivors of the shipwreck.

Six ships have crashed here in the past one hundred
years, including the ship that brought the cleric of Um-
berlee and her crew to the island. At high tide, three
of the wrecks (the Bitch Queen, the Carcerius, and the
Sea Mare) are submerged, while the others (the Dawn
Avenger, the Dirty Dastard, and the Virago) are at least
partially visible above the waterline. At low tide, all six
wrecks are visible to some extent. Each shipwreck is
described below.

A two-headed plesiosaurus prowls the water around
the wrecks at high tide. The creature withdraws to the
northern strait when the tide goes out. It has the statis-
tics of a plesiosaurus, with these changes:

+ The two-headed plesiosaurus has 100 hit points.

+ It has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks
and on saving throws against being blinded,
charmed, deafened, frightened, stunned, or knocked
unconscious.

--- PAGE 19 (left) ---
+ It can use its action to make two bite attacks, one with
each head.
+ It has a challenge rating of 4 (1,100 XP).

BITCH QUEEN

The Bitch Queen was a floating temple to the goddess
Umberlee. When the ship capsized and was thrown onto
the rocks during a storm almost a century ago, many

of the crew were trapped in flooded cabins. The tortles
who rescued them and pulled them ashore were smit-
ten by the Bitch Queen’s human captain, who painted
Umberlee in a more flattering light than she deserves.
Eager to please the captain and her deity, the tortles
looked after the survivors and built a palace for them on
the mountainside overlooking the sea.

Of the Bitch Queen, little remains except its bowsprit
and wooden figurehead, which is carved in the likeness
of a screaming woman with long strands of kelp for hair
and waves breaking around her. Part of the ship's aft
castle lies nearby, on its side and lodged amid the rocks.
The wreck is completely submerged at high tide; at low
tide, the bowsprit and half of the figurehead are visible,
as is a small, sun-bleached corner of the aft castle.

Treasure. Hooked on a section of splintered railing
still attached to the bowsprit is a tarnished silver holy
symbol of Umberlee (25 gp). A character must dive
underwater to find it, but it glitters in the light and is
easily spotted. See handout D for an illustration of the
holy symbol.

CARCERIUS

The caravel Carcerius was transporting slaves around
Chult when it was caught in a storm seventy-five years
ago. The crew was swept off the deck, leaving the slaves
chained below. When the ship finally slammed against
the rocks and sank, all of the slaves drowned.

Three sections of shattered hull form a triangle, and
most of the Carcerius is buried in the sand. The wreck is
completely submerged at high tide, and two sections are
half-exposed at low tide. Scavengers have picked clean
the wreck, but one can still find rusty manacles bolted to
rotten beams alongside skeletal remains.

DAwNn AVENGER

The captain of the Dawn Avenger was an aasimar cleric
of Lathander. A little over a year ago, she came to the
south shores of Chult with a charter to hunt pirates and
instead ran her ship aground. Thick clouds of smoke
from the volcanoes to the north, which hampered visibil-
ity, were to blame. Seven survivors including the captain
made it to the Snout, but they didn’t stay long. They used
salvaged rowboats to cross the northern strait, landed
on the mainland, and disappeared into the wilds of
Chult. No tortle on the island met the survivors, so no
one knows what became of them.

The Dawn Avenger broke in half. Its aft section was
dragged out to sea by the current, but its forward sec-
tion is lodged between rocks, canted to one side with its
broken mast pointing south. The wreckage is entirely
visible at low tide, and the starboard half becomes sub-
merged at high tide. The tortles have picked it clean,
leaving nothing of value.

--- PAGE 19 (right) ---
Dirty DAsTARD

This pirate ship sank nine years ago. It sits upside down
ona rock bed, its masts and upper deck sheared off, its
exposed belly crusted with barnacles and snails. At low
tide, the hull is fully above the water. A gash on its star-
board side makes an adequate doorway. Everything but
the ship’s keel is submerged at high tide.

Plundered by tortles shortly after it sank, the Dirty
Dastard recently became the lair of a sea hag named
Myldryd Urchinspine. The vile hag lurks in the boat’s
dark interior, ready to devour anyone who drops in
uninvited. The sandy floor of her lair is covered with
half-eaten raw fish, seaweed, and broken shells. Hidden
under the sand and detritus are two giant crabs that
obey the hag’s commands.

Treasure. The hag brought with her an old, unlocked
sea chest containing her possessions. The chest lies
buried under sand and rocks. Characters who spend at
least 15 minutes searching the hag’s lair uncover the
rotting chest with a successful DC 15 Wisdom (Percep-
tion) check. The check is made with disadvantage if the
wreckage is underwater.

Myldryd’s chest contains three trinkets (determined
randomly by rolling on the Trinkets table in chapter 5
of the Player's Handbook), 200 cp, a comb made out of
whalebone (5 sp), and a stuffed parrot with a carnelian
gemstone (50 gp) hidden inside it. A secret compartment
in the chest’s lid can be found and opened with a suc-
cessful DC 16 Wisdom (Perception) check; it contains a
medallion of thoughts.

SEA MARE

The Sea Mare was a merchant ship that fell prey to pi-
rates twenty-four years ago. After the pirates killed the
ship’s crew and looted the hold, they tried to set the ship
ablaze before abandoning it. A rainstorm extinguished
the flames before they could do much damage, but
strong winds blew the derelict vessel to its doom. Of all
the wrecked ships found at High Horn, the Sea Mare is
the one farthest from shore, nestled in a hole and lodged
against a coral reef. It’s mostly intact but lies completely
underwater at high tide. Even at low tide, only the
battered remains of the crow’s nest can be seen above
the water.

Tortles have tried numerous times to plunder the
wreck, to no avail. With her dying breath, the ship's cap-
tain pledged her soul to Orcus and was transformed into
a wight that lurks in the ship’s hold. Though she carries
no weapons, she guards what’s left of the cargo (see
“Treasure” below).

Within the flooded hold, amid skeletons picked clean
by fish, the characters can find an airtight stone sar-
cophagus carved in the likeness of a demon with folded
wings. The sarcophagus weighs 2,000 pounds, and its
lid has an arcane lock spell cast on it. Opening the sar-
cophagus requires a knock spell or a successful DC 28
Strength (Athletics) check. It contains the mummified
corpse of an archmage who perished after failing to be-
come a lich. The corpse is wrapped in a black shroud. A
stoppered bronze scroll tube rests at its feet, and a staff
fashioned from a single branch of pale white wood (see
“Treasure” below) lies beside it.

THE TORTLE PACKAGE .
|

--- PAGE 20 (left) ---
20

The scroll tube contains a dry sheet of parchment
bearing the following message in Abyssal: “Orcus,
claim your prize! The secrets of lichdom remain yours,
but my deeds and magic will live on, as will my soul in
the Abyss.”

Treasure. The top of the archmage’s staff is shaped
like a demon’s claw. The staff is not magical, but it radi-
ates a false aura of conjuration magic when studied un-
der a detect magic spell or similar magic. Casting dispel
magic on the staff removes the false aura. The staff is
worth 25 gp and can be used as an arcane focus.

VIRAGO

The Virago was a merchant vessel out of Zazesspur.
Thirty-odd years ago, it ran afoul of pirates and was
chased around the Chultan peninsula. The Virago would
have escaped had it not sailed into a pyroclastic ash
cloud and caught fire. The burning ship drifted for days
before the current bore it to High Horn. There it sank.
The burnt nub that was once the mast is the only part of
the ship visible at high tide; at low tide, the scorched top
deck of the Virago is above water; the rotted-out lower
deck and keel are buried deep in the sand below. Noth-
ing of value can be salvaged from this wreck.

Mup PITs OF FLORRB

In the heart of the island’s jungle are three pools of mud
heated by geothermal vents. Each pool is within sight

of the other two and is 5 feet deep, 50 feet wide, and
roughly circular. (The pools shown on map 1 are not to
scale.) A detect magic spell reveals a faint aura of abjura-
tion magic around each pool.

The tortles of the island like to bathe and relax in the
mud pools for hours at a time, singing and bellowing to
pass the time. A winding foot trail connects the mud pits
to the tortle fort of Ahoyhoy.

The “lord” of the mud pits is Florrb, a mud mephit
with 1d10 temporary hit points (which he gained by
swimming in the mud pits). The mephit and the tortles
share a common language (Aquan). Through words and
gestures, Florrb urges visitors to bathe in the mud and
enjoy themselves. It demands no payment but insists on
joining those who bathe. Florrb likes being in its natural
element, but the longer the mephit remains in the mud,
the more dour it becomes. A successful DC 10 Wisdom
(Insight) check reveals that the mud mephit seems to be
waiting for something to happen. Florrb doesn’t want
others to know what's really going on and reveals the
cause of its anxiety only if magically compelled to do so.

FLORRB’S PROBLEM

When the mud pits formed a hundred years ago, Florrb
and two other mud mephits were transported into them
from the Elemental Plane of Earth. The other two
mephits found a way to get back to their home plane,
but Florrb was left behind. It wants to return home but
doesn’t know how. The other mephits were swimming
in the mud pits when they disappeared. In the years
since, other creatures have disappeared while bathing
in the mud pits, but Florrb has yet to figure out the
trick to activating them. With a successful DC 15 Cha-
risma (Persuasion) check, a character can help Florrb

THE TORTLE PACKAGE

--- PAGE 20 (right) ---
recall that each of other mephits disappeared during
a volcanic eruption, as ash and embers were falling
from the sky.

A legend lore spell reveals that all three mud pits are
portals to the Elemental Plane of Earth and that a spe-
cial “gate key” is needed to unlock them from this side.
The gate key is any open flame. (The flame and the mud
pit symbolize the coming together of the four elements:
earth and water in the mud, fire and air in the flame.)
Whenever an open flame is burning within 10 feet of a
mud pit, the pit becomes a portal linked to a similar but
larger mud pit on the Elemental Plane of Earth. At such
times, any creature that fully submerges itself in one pit
emerges in the other. An open flame is not needed to
travel from one of the mud pits on the Elemental Plane
of Earth to its corresponding mud pit on the island.

Mup Pit EFrect

Any creature that bathes in a mud pit for at least 1 hour
gains 1d10 temporary hit points. Mud removed from a
pit loses this property.

SHRINE OF FANGS
Nested at the foot of a mountain is an ancient yuan-ti
shrine dedicated to Merrshaulk. Yuan-ti abominations

once offered sacrifices here, hoping to wake their slum-
bering deity or gain flickers of divine insight.

Near the base of the mountain is a giant carving of a
snake's head, its forked tongue forming a ten-foot-wide,
twenty-foot-high stone ramp. Stone fangs descend from
the roof of the serpent’s mouth, which forms a can-
opy over a dark, ten-foot-wide tunnel leading into the

mountain.

The tunnel at the back of the serpent’s head is 200 feet
long and corkscrews gently down into the mountain,
ending before an unlit oval chamber. Characters who
have a light source or can see in the dark can discern
the room’s features:

The tunnel ends at a domed oval room thirty feet deep,
twenty feet wide, and twenty feet high. The walls are
carved with frescoes depicting swarms of snakes. At the
far end of the room is a cracked, bowl-shaped altar, three
feet tall and six feet in diameter, caked with dried blood.
Set into the base of the bowl is an empty niche, and
hanging from the ceiling above the altar is a bloodstained

iron hook at the end of a rusty chain.

A search of the wall frescoes reveals that the snakes’
eye sockets once held precious gemstones. Xorn living
in the mountain plucked out and ate all the gems, leav-
ing behind empty, faceted indentations.

Yuan-ti liked to impale their sacrifices on the hook
above the altar. The victims’ blood would pool in the al-
tar’s stone bowl, and the yuan-ti would wash themselves

--- PAGE 21 (left) ---
in the blood while calling Merrshaulk’s name, hoping to
rouse the god from his slumber.

TALKING SNAKES

Lurking behind the altar are two awakened poisonous
snakes named Ssura and Y’zleth (pronounced SOO-rah*
and EEZ-leth). They slither out of hiding to confront
anyone who approaches within 5 feet of the altar. Each
awakened snake is unaligned, has an Intelligence score
of 10, and speaks Common. The snakes claim to have
useful information to share if the characters are willing
to complete a quest for them.

Six months ago, a creature with a boulder-like shell
(a geonid) entered the shrine and stole an icon of Merr-
shaulk. The icon is a serpent figurine carved from obsid-
ian. Ssura and Y’zleth want it found and returned to the
niche in the base of the altar. The thief and its kind live
in caves that riddle the mountains (see “Geonid Caves,”
page 18). The snakes warn the characters that they
might need to search several caves to find the figurine.

As servants of Merrshaulk, Ssura and Y’zleth are
opposed to other yuan-ti deities. In particular, they seek
to thwart the machinations of yuan-ti that are devoted
to Dendar the Night Serpent. If the characters complete
the quest, Ssura and Y’zleth reveal the following infor-
mation as their reward:

+ Alocked gate beneath the Peaks of Flame leads to
the realm of an apocalyptic god known as Dendar the
Night Serpent. If the Night Serpent emerges, she will
devour the world. Her yuan-ti followers are searching
for a relic called the Black Opal Crown, which is said
to have the power to open the gate to Dendar’s realm.

- For ages, a mysterious god named Ubtao stood watch
in Chult and built mazes to prevent Dendar’s worship-
ers from finding and releasing her. Ubtao has since
withdrawn from the world, leaving no one to guard
against Dendar’s release.

+ Ras Nsi, one of Ubtao’s fallen champions, has joined
forces with the yuan-ti and become one of them. Ras
Nsi and his fellow yuan-ti have built a temple under
the ruined city of Omu, west of the Peaks of Flame.

+ One of Ras Nsi’s greatest enemies is a naga named
Saja N’baza. The naga dwells in a fallen kingdom
called Orolunga. Neither Ssura nor Y’zleth knows how
to get there.

Ssura and Y’zleth learned everything they know from
yuan-ti visitors to the shrine. They might know other
facts as well, at your discretion. The awakened snakes
won't leave the shrine willingly, and they attack anyone
who tries to capture or kill them.

NEw MONSTERS

Among the Snout of Omgar’s many inhabitants are the
following creatures.

DECAPUS

Decapuses are carnivorous, solitary hunters that swing
through trees, scooping up prey with their 10-foot-long,
suckered tentacles. Decapuses also use their tentacles
to climb walls and ceilings.


--- PAGE 21 (right) ---
After securing a high vantage point, a decapus hangs
by one tentacle and attacks with the other nine. On the
ground, a decapus is slower and less dangerous. It must
use half of its tentacles to support its weight upright,
leaving five tentacles with which it can attack and de-
fend itself.

DECAPUS

Large monstrosity, unaligned

Armor Class 14 (natural)
Hit Points 75 (10d10 + 20)
Speed 15 ft., climb 30 ft.

STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA
15 (+2) 1442) 1442) 4(3) 10440) 7(2)

Skills Athletics +4, Perception +2, Stealth +4
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 12
Languages —

Challenge 4 (1,100 XP)

=

ACTIONS

Multiattack. The decapus makes two attacks: one with its bite
and one with its tentacles.

Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature
grappled by the decapus. Hit: 7 (2d4 + 2) piercing damage.

Tentacles. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 10 ft., one

target. Hit: 24 (9d4 + 2) bludgeoning damage, or 14 (5d4 +

2) bludgeoning damage if the decapus is grappling a creature

other than the target or if the decapus is on the ground or floor.

The target is also grappled (escape DC 14) unless the decapus

is already grappling a creature. Until this grapple ends, the tar-

get is restrained.
——————————

THE TORTLE PACKAGE

QI

--- PAGE 22 (left) ---
Marine Decapus. A marine decapus is similar to its
land-dwelling cousin, except that it gains a swimming
speed of 30 feet and can breathe only underwater.

GEONID

Also known as rocklings and rock hermits, geonids are
small, intelligent cave dwellers that originated on the
Elemental Plane of Earth. A geonid’s arms and legs
come out of a small opening in the bottom of its shell.
A geonid can draw its limbs into its shell and close the
opening. When it does so, the creature looks like a small
boulder. In this state, the geonid can’t see and relies on
its tremorsense to detect other creatures nearby.

Dark Lairs. Geonids live in natural tunnels and caves.
They feed primarily on lizards, rats, slugs, and other ver-

GEONID

Small elemental, neutral

Armor Class 17 (natural)
Hit Points 26 (4d6 + 12)
Speed 30 ft.

STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA
12 (#1) 10(40) 16(43) 91) 1442) 110)

Skills Perception +4, Stealth +2

Senses darkvision 60 ft., tremorsense 30 ft.,
passive Perception 14

Languages Terran

Challenge 1/4 (50 XP)

Boulder Guise. While fully withdrawn into its shell, the geonid
can’t see and is indistinguishable from a small boulder.
ACTIONS

Club. Melee Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.
Hit: 3 (1d4 + 1) bludgeoning damage.

Stone Tell. The geonid touches a stone object or surface and
knows what types of creatures have been within 10 feet of that
stone in the past 24 hours. The geonid can also determine the
number of creatures of each type, but not their identities.
—SSS—SS——_—~EE:7X&X#z7_cK]qeZ__“&=7<£Z#_EEZEEEZZ

aes THE TORTLE PACKAGE

--- PAGE 22 (right) ---
min, as well as on cave lichen and moss. Geonids like
to collect coins and gemstones, and they rarely confront
creatures larger than themselves except to rob them or
scare them away.

Stone Tell. Geonids can attune to stone in a way that
lets them discern what other creatures have been in the
area recently. Geonids use this ability to track prey and
to determine whether other creatures have trespassed
in their territory. The information gleaned is imprecise
and doesn’t include the specific identities of such crea-
tures or the precise times when they passed nearby.

Tori

Small undead, chaotic evil

Armor Class 13 (natural)
Hit Points 13 (3d6 + 3)
Speed 30 ft.

STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA
7(-2) 15(42) 12(+1) 6(-2) 10(+0) 5 (-3)

Damage Resistances bludgeoning

Damage Immunities poison

Condition Immunities poisoned

Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 10

Languages understands the languages it knew in life but can’t
speak

Challenge 1/2 (100 XP)

Turn Resistance. The topi has advantage on saving throws
against any effect that turns undead.

Undead Fortitude. \f damage reduces the topi to 0 hit points,
it must make a Constitution saving throw with a DC of 5 + the
damage taken, unless the damage is radiant or from a critical
hit. On a success, the topi drops to 1 hit point instead.

ACTIONS

Venomous Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft.,

one target. Hit: 4 (1d4 + 2) slashing damage plus 2 (1d4) poi-
son damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 11 Consti-
tution saving throw or be poisoned until the end of the target's
next turn.

—————$—$—


--- PAGE 23 (left) ---
TOpPI

Topis are similar to zombies. Before a topi is animated,
its corpse is shrunk until it stands only 2 feet tall, and its
heart is cut out and replaced with a leather bag that con-
tains a live poisonous snake. The snake requires neither
air nor sustenance, and it magically renders the topi’s
claws venomous. When a topi dies, the snake inside it
dies too. The process of creating a topi is known only to
a handful of evil priests and necromancers.

Topis are more difficult to turn than ordinary zom-
bies, and their spongy bodies make them resistant to
bludgeoning.

Undead Traits. A topi doesn’t require air, food,
drink, or sleep.

TORTLES

Tortles are omnivorous, turtle-like humanoids with
leathery skin and bulky shells that cover most of their
bodies. An adult tortle stands about 6 feet tall and
weighs between 450 and 500 pounds. Males and fe-
males are nearly identical in size and appearance. They
don’t wear clothing other than belts and harnesses for
carrying tools and supplies.

Natural Defenses. A tortle can retreat into its shell for
added protection. While fully withdrawn inside its shell,
a tortle can’t do much other than hide.

TORTLE

Medium humanoid (tortle), lawful good

Armor Class 17 (natural)
Hit Points 22 (4d8 + 4)
Speed 30 ft.

STR DEX CON INT wis CHA
15 (+2) 10(40) 12(+1) 11 (+0) 13 (41) 12 (+1)

Skills Athletics +4, Survival +3
Senses passive Perception 11
Languages Aquan, Common
Challenge 1/4 (50 XP)

Hold Breath. The tortle can hold its breath for 1 hour.

ACTIONS

Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.
Hit: 4 (1d4 + 2) slashing damage.

Quarterstaff. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one
target. Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) bludgeoning damage, or 6 (1d8 + 2)
bludgeoning damage when used with two hands.

Light Crossbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +2 to hit, range 80/320
ft., one target. Hit: 4 (1d8) piercing damage.

Shell Defense. The tortle withdraws into its shell. Until it
emerges, it gains a +4 bonus to AC and has advantage on
Strength and Constitution saving throws. While in its shell, the
tortle is prone, its speed is 0 and can’t increase, it has disad-
vantage on Dexterity saving throws, it can't take reactions, and

the only action it can take is a bonus action to emerge.
——_xK“X*{ > L_—L—X~C—eEEEE—

--- PAGE 23 (right) ---
Although their claws are quite sharp, tortles prefer to
defend themselves and hunt using weapons they manu-
facture for themselves. They prefer simple melee weap-
ons and crossbows.

CREDITS

Designer: Christopher Perkins

Developer and Managing Editor: Jeremy Crawford
Editor: Kim Mohan

Illustrators: Richard Whitters, Shawn Wood
Graphic Designer: Emi Tanji

Cartographer: Will Doyle

Creature Catalog, a D&D game accessory published in 1986 by TSR,
Inc., provided inspiration and text for this supplement.

DUNGEONS & DRAGONS, D&D, Wizards of the Coast, Forgotten Realms, the dragon
ampersand, Player’s Handbook, Monster Manual, Dungeon Master's Guide, The Tortle
Package, Tomb of Annihilation, all other Wizards of the Coast product names, and
their respective logos are trademarks of Wizards of the Coast in the USA and other
countries, All characters and their distinctive likenesses are property of Wizards of
the Coast. This material is protected under the copyright laws of the United States of
America. Any reproduction or unauthorized use of the material or artwork contained
herein is prohibited without the express written permission of Wizards of the Coast

TORTLE DRUID

Medium humanoid (tortle), lawful neutral

Armor Class 17 (natural)
Hit Points 33 (6d8 + 6)
Speed 30 ft.

STR DEX CON INT wis CHA
14 (+2) 10(+0) 12(+1) 11 (+0) 15 (+2) 12 (41)

Skills Animal Handling +4, Nature +2, Survival +4
Senses passive Perception 12

Languages Aquan, Common

Challenge 2 (450 XP)

Hold Breath. The tortle can hold its breath for 1 hour.

Spellcasting. The tortle is a 4th-level spellcaster. Its spellcast-
ing ability is Wisdom (spell save DC 12, +4 to hit with spell
attacks). It has the following druid spells prepared:

Cantrips (at will): druidcraft, guidance, produce flame

Ist level (4 slots): animal friendship, cure wounds, speak with
animals, thunderwave

2nd level (3 slots): darkvision, hold person

ACTIONS

Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.
Hit: 4 (1d4 + 2) slashing damage.

Quarterstaff. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one
target. Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) bludgeoning damage, or 6 (1d8 + 2)
bludgeoning damage when used with two hands.

Shell Defense. The tortle withdraws into its shell. Until it
emerges, it gains a +4 bonus to AC and has advantage on
Strength and Constitution saving throws. While in its shell, the
tortle is prone, its speed is 0 and can't increase, it has disad-
vantage on Dexterity saving throws, it can’t take reactions, and
the only action it can take is a bonus action to emerge.
——SSSSS————==pnEa---|||=_==_=-__A

THE TORTLE PACKAGE

g

--- PAGE 24 (left) ---
24

HaAnpboutT A: EEYAL

Geyal's the wame. I’ve traveled from the
Snout of Omgar to Fort Beluartan and
Rwow the hazards of Chult well. I’ve seew
many astounding sights and visited
wondrous places tw my travels. | carry mL
own gear, have all the wecessary tools for
survival, and Leave wothing to chance. |
dow't believe tn taking unnecessary risks

My fee ts 5 gold pieces per day. | will
also accept an up-front, non-refundable
payment of 40 gold pieces for a tenday.

(strongly recommend that you purchase
a charter of exploration at Fort Beluartan
before heading into the jungle. Fifty gold
pleces ts a small price to pay to keep the
Flaming Fist off your backs.

HANDOUT B: KWILGOK

Well met, strangers! I’m Kwilgok—once
a dtwosaur racer, wow the best guide
tw Port Nyanzaru. I’ve traveled up the
River Soshenstar to the Aldani Bastw
and back. I’ve visited so many corners
of Chult and can tell you: there’s wo
Land more beautiful and dangerous.
This is my ankylosaurus, Deadly
Treasure. Quite a prize, isw’t she?
Follows me everywhere. We cost & gold
pleces a day, with payment for 30 days
up front. very expensive, yes, but worth
tt, | promise you. May the sun and the
moon always watch over you.

THE TORTLE PACKAGE

--- PAGE 24 (right) ---
KWILGOK

--- PAGE 25 (left) ---
HANDOuT C: MUDGRAW

Great Ubtao has led you to me, | see. ||
Mudgraw, a Legena in these parts. Wh
lack tw youth, | make up for with expe
ve Led many expeditions into the evil
of Chult ana seen things that would v
you quiver tw your shell.

A deadly maze awaits us, brave ones
With ubtao’s blessing, | shall guide y
safely through it. That’s what | do best
travel light and wear my home on my

\ charge 5 gold pieces a day, but ther
circumstances under which | might w
my fee. Sometimes the journey throu
Life's maze ts reward enough!

HANpDoutT D: Hoty SYMBOL


--- PAGE 25 (right) ---
MUDGRAW

F UMBERLEE

THE TORTLE PACKAGE ae

--- PAGE 26 (left) ---
ILL tii GL eter

©2017 Wizards of the Coast LLC. Permission is

--- PAGE 26 (right) ---
nted to distribute this page for home game use.

--- PAGE 27 (left) ---

--- PAGE 27 (right) ---

--- PAGE 28 (left) ---
©2017 Wizards of the Coast LLC. Permission is

--- PAGE 28 (right) ---
0)

IRUINTIETRMRITETY CraceneneneeReY AAEM MERON. IS

nted to distribute this page for home game use.

