=== PAGE 1 ===
THE TORTLE PACKAGE
&

=== PAGE 2 ===
IN TROD UG TI O N of Umberlee. In return, the cleric and her followers left
the tortles alone and were quiet neighbors.
The Snout of Omgar is a geographical region described Over time, the island’s Umberlee worshipers died off,
briefly in Tomb of Annihilation. Not much is revealed and the palace fell into ruin. Descendants of the tortles
about the location or its inhabitants in that adventure, who built the Typhoon Palace soon discovered evil
however. The Tortle Package is written for Dungeon creatures lurking within. Older tortles wisely shun the
Masters who want to know more about the Snout of ruined palace, but younger tortles occasionally try to
Omgar. This supplement also introduces a new playable explore it as a rite of passage. Few of them get far before
character race, the tortle, and a new adventure location: strange monsters frighten them away.
Dangwaru, the Typhoon Palace.
Tortles are intelligent, turtle-like humanoids that have UsinG THIS SUPPLEMENT
a knack for wilderness survival. The race first appeared ee es we. ee
i 0 Here are ways to use this supplement in concert with
in early editions of the D&D game, nowhere more prom- Tomb of Annihilation:
inently than in module X9, The Savage Coast, which was ,
set in the world of Mystara. Tortles, like most other ad- + With your consent, one or more players can create
venturous races, can appear on any D&D world. In the tortle characters using the rules in the “Tortle” sec-
Forgotten Realms, the peninsula of Chult and the Snout tion. These tortles have traveled far from the Snout
of Omgar make good homes for them. of Omgar in search of adventure and companionship.
This supplement assumes that you have the D&D fifth They can join the party in Port Nyanzaru or some
edition core rulebooks (Player’s Handbook, Dungeon other location in Chult.
Master’s Guide, and Monster Manual) as well as Volo’s + The party might encounter a tortle NPC willing
Guide to Monsters and Tomb of Annihilation. to serve as a wilderness guide. This supplement
describes three new tortle guides (see “Tortle
Guides,” page 4).
| Text that appears in a box like this is meant to be read | 2 The ae the Snout of Omgar, explore its
aloud or paraphrased for the players when their charac- locations, and encounter its inhabitants.
ters first arrive at a location or under a specific circum-
— ADVENTURE HOOKS
stance, as described in the text.
Here are some hooks you can use to lure characters to
the Snout of Omgar:
The Monster Manual, Volo’s Guide to Monsters, and + While traveling by ship around the Chultan peninsula,
Tomb of Annihilation contain stat blocks for most of the the characters are caught in a storm and washed
creatures found herein, and a handful of new monsters ashore on the Snout of Omgar, not too far from High
appear at the end of this supplement. When a creature's Horn (see “High Horn,” page 18).
mantic appears ies bold type, that’s a visual cue pointing + The commander of Fort Beluarian, Liara Portyr, hires
you to its stat block in the Monster Manual. Ifa stat the adventurers to explore the ruins of the Typhoon
block appears elsewhere, the text tells you'so: Palace and report back to her. She arranges for a ship
Spells and equipment mentioned in the adventure are to transport them to Ahoyhoy.
described in the Player's Handbook. Magic items are + The characters hire a tortle guide in Port Nyanzaru
described in the Dungeon Master's Guide. or Fort Beluarian. The tortle tells them stories about
the Typhoon Palace and, as payment for its services,
THE SNOUTOFOMGAR requests their help in ridding the palace of monsters.
The Snout of Omgar was once a peninsula, but upheaval + The merchant princes of Port Nyanzaru are worried
wrought by the Spellplague broke off the tip of the about the growing number of yuan-ti spies in their city
peninsula, creating an island separated from mainland and fear that the serpent folk are planning to assassi-
Chult by a narrow strait. When the separation occurred, nate them. A map of the Snout of Omgar was found on
tortles living in the vicinity claimed the island as their the body of a slain yuan-ti pureblood spy who tried to
domain. The strait provided a natural defense against infiltrate Merchant Prince Zhanthi's household. Zhan-
aggressive mainland predators. thi offers a 1,000 gp reward to adventurers who are
The tortles of the Snout are hospitable folk who like to willing to visit each of the island’s landmarks and re-
hunt, catch fish, build things, and trade with visitors. Not port back to her with news of their discoveries. Zhan-
long after the island was formed, a pirate ship captained thi gives them the map and arranges for a fast ship
by a cleric of the sea goddess Umberlee was caught in (the Brazen Pegasus) to transport them to the island.
a typhoon and swept ashore. Tortles rescued the ship- + Aship carrying the famous explorer Volothamp “Volo”
wrecked survivors and looked after them. The captain Geddarm is missing. It set sail for the southern coast
impressed the tortles with her magic and told stories of Chult and never arrived. Volo’s plan was to visit
that painted Umberlee in a flattering light. In time, she beautiful Snapping Turtle Bay, then spend a week at
persuaded them to raise a palace in her deity’s honor. the tortle fort of Ahoyhoy. (“Tortle hospitality is said to
The cleric chose a mountainside overlooking the sea, be second to none!”) Rumors that the ship fell prey to
and there the tortles spent a decade building Dangwaru, pirates are false; in fact, the ship capsized in a storm,
the Typhoon Palace, which secretly served as a temple and Volo was washed ashore on the Snout of Omgar.
. THE TORTLE PACKAGE

=== PAGE 3 ===
Xo) RTLE watches over them in darkness, and the sun is the
equally vigilant eye of day. Tortles feel most at peace
I caught a big fish. when one or both of these “eyes” are looking down on
Now I search for a good friend them. They become more nervous and uneasy when
taste tnadaculite neither orb is visible in the sky. Tortles tend to be most
‘ uncomfortable underground, where neither the sun nor
—Tortle haiku the moon is visible to them.
Blessed are the days when both the sun and moon are
What many tortles consider a simple life, others might visible in the sky at the same time. Tortles often choose
call a life of adventure. Tortles are born near sandy such days to leave their homes and begin a wilderness
coastlines, but as soon as they’re able to walk on two expedition, or perform some other task they know to be
legs, they become nomad survivalists eager to explore dangerous.
the wilderness, experience its many wonders, put their
skills to the test, and make new acquaintances. ADVENTURERS AT HEART
Tortles have a saying: “We wear our homes on our
Lupe Or A Tomes backs.” The shells they carry around provide all the
A tortle hatches from a thick-shelled egg and spends shelter they require. Consequently, tortles don’t feel
the first few weeks of its life crawling on all fours. Its the need to root themselves in one place for too long.
parents, old and near death, spend what little time they A tortle settlement is primarily used as a kind of moot,
have left telling stories to their offspring. Within a year, where tortles can socialize with one another, share use-
the young tortle becomes an orphan, though not before ful information, and trade with strangers in the safety
it learns to speak and to survive on its own. of greater numbers. Tortles don’t regard these settle-

A young tortle and its siblings inherit whatever tools, ments as places worth defending with their lives, and
weapons, and gifts their parents left behind. Each young they will abandon a settlement when it no longer serves
tortle is expected to fend for itself. It leaves the place of their needs.
its birth and finds its own corner of the wilderness in Most tortles like to see how other creatures live and
which to hunt, catch fish, and get by. With each passing discover new customs and new ways of doing things.
year, a tortle hones its survival skills. It forms friend- The urge to procreate doesn’t kick in until the end of a
ships with its neighbors while also respecting their pri- tortle’s life, and a tortle can spend decades away from its
vacy. At some point, a tortle feels an almost overwhelm- native land without feeling homesick.
ing urge to venture far away from home and see more of Tortles embrace a simple view of the world. It is a
the world. It gathers up its possessions and heads into place of wonder, and tortles see beauty in the ordinary.
the wilderness, returning months or years later with sto- They live for the chance to hear a soft wind blowing
ries of its exploits and new skills. through palm trees, to watch a frog croaking on a lily

When a tortle nears the end of its natural lifespan, it pad, or to stand in a crowded human marketplace.
seeks out a mate and procreates. Tortles lay their eggs Tortles like to learn new skills. They craft their own
(numbering as few as one or as many as a dozen) ina tools and weapons, and they are good at building struc-
fortified compound enclosed by stone walls that are tures and fortifications. They marvel at the works of
easily defensible. If no such compound exists, they build other civilized creatures, humans in particular, and can
one. The parents spend the remainder of their lives lose themselves for years in a city, studying its architec-
guarding the compound, defending their offspring, and tural wonders and learning skills they can put to use
sharing a lifetime of knowledge before they die. When when building forts to contain their offspring.
the children are old enough to leave the compound, they Although they spend a considerable portion of their
pick up whatever weapons and tools their parents left lives in isolation, tortles are social creatures that like to
behind and set out on their own. form meaningful friendships. They have no inbred an-

imus toward people of other races. In fact, a tortle will
BELIEFS often seek out friendships with non-tortles to learn new
Tortles don’t have their own pantheon of gods, but they customs and new points of view.
often worship the gods of other races. It’s not unusual
for a tortle to hear stories or legends related to a god and ToRTLENAMES
choose to worship that deity. In the Forgotten Realms, Tortles prefer simple, non-gender-specific names that
tortles are especially fond of Eldath, Gond, Lathander, are usually no more than two syllables. If a tortle doesn’t
Savras, Selfine, and Tymora. In the Greyhawk setting, like its name for whatever reason, it can change it. A
they gravitate toward Celestian, Fharlanghn, Pelor, tortle might change its name a dozen times in its life.
Pholtus, and St. Cuthbert. Tortles are often drawn to the Tortles don’t have surnames or family names.
Gods of Good in Dragonlance and the Sovereign Host Male and Female Names: Baka, Damu, Gar, Gura, Ini,
in Eberron. Among the nonhuman deities, Moradin and Jappa, Kinlek, Krull, Lim, Lop, Nortle, Nulka, Olo,
Yondalla relate io tortles most of all. Ploqwat, Quee, Queg, Quott, Sunny, Tibor, Ubo, Uhok,

Tortles believe that night and day watch over them Wabu, Xelbuk, Xopa, Yog
and other creatures. The moon is the eye of night that

THE TORTLE PACKAGE 5

=== PAGE 4 ===
TORTLE TRAITS against volcanic ash. It took her almost a year, but she
i, 2 Lae) traveled from the Snout of Omgar to Fort Beluarian on
Your tortle character gains traits that enable it to cope foot, crossing Chult through rough mountains, dense
with the perils of a savage world. : jungles, and undead-infested territory. She’s seen Lake

Ability Score Increase. Your Strength RIO AE Luo, the garden palace of Nangalore, the gorge of Ataaz
creases by 2, and your Wisdom score increases by 1. Muhahah, and the ruins of Mezro. She even found a

Age. Young tortles crawl for a few weeks after birth shipwreck in the jungle (the wreck of the Narwhal) and
before learning to walk on two legs. They reach adult- befriended a weretiger that lives there.
hood by the age of 15 and live an average of 50 Nears: A skilled artisan, Eeyal carries a set of smith’s tools

. Alignment. Tortles tend to lead orderly, ritualistic and a set of tinker’s tools. She also owns a climber’s kit,
ives: They develop customs and routines, becoming a healer’s kit, and a dungeoneer’s pack. This equipment
more set in their ways as they age. Most are lawful good. is hooked to a specially crafted leather harness attached
A few can be selfish and greedy, tending more toward to Eeyal’s shell. Eeyal claims to have the right tool for ev-
evil, but it’s unusual for a tortle to shuck off order in fa- ery contingency and is so protective of her gear that she
vor of chaos. insists on carrying it all herself.

Size. Tortle adults stand 5 to 6 feet tall and average Eeyal is 5 feet, 8 inches tall and weighs 420 pounds.
450 pounds. Their shells accu for roughly one-third Although she’s only 17 years old, her demeanor is com-
of their weight. Your size a Medium. parable to that of a much older, much wiser tortle. She

Speed. Your base walking speed is 30 feet. i chooses her words carefully and doesn’t take unneces-

Claws. Your claws are natural weapons, which you sary risks. As she walks through the jungle, she uses
can use to make unarmed strikes. If you hit with them, her quarterstaff to poke and prod ahead of her, fully
yan deal slashing damage equal to 1d4 + your Strength aware that traps and snares come in many forms.
modifier, instead of the bludgeoning damage normal for If the characters hire Eeyal, she recommends that
anunarmed strike: they also purchase a charter of exploration before leav-

Hold Breath. You can hold your breath for up to 1 ing Fort Beluarian. Eeyal expects to run into Flaming
hour at a time. Tortles aren't natural swimmers, but they Fist patrols, and such meetings can turn sour in a hurry
can remain underwater for some time before needing to if one doesn’t carry the necessary paperwork.
come up for air. Frightened of subterranean places, Eeyal won't vol-

Natural Armor. Due to your shell and the shape of untarily travel underground unless there’s no other
your body, you are ill-suited to wearing armor. Your shell alternative,
provides ample protection, however; it gives you a base Eeyal is trustworthy and charges 5 gp per day. She
AC of 17 (your Dexterity modifier doesn't affect this : also offers a discount rate of 40 gp for a tenday, but the
number). You gain no benefit from wearing armor, but if payment must be made up front and is non-refundable.
you are using a shield, you can apply the shield’s bonus
as normal. KwILGOK

Shell Defense. You can withdraw into your shell as Tortle guide (Port Nyanzaru)
anactonaUablyouemerde, you gaina 14 bonus 1B When the characters meet Kwilgok, give them handout
and you have advantage on Strength and Constitution Bat the end ofthis supplement
souine REOWs: While an your she you oe Oe aes Three years ago, a trade ship visited the tortle fort of
speed ee 9 aun can Pinet case, younave CE MeL on. Ahoyhoy, and Kwilgok was able to book passage on it.
pextenty saving trows) youcant take ee aun! In Port Nene he discovered a world like no other.
the only action you can take is a bonus action to emerge He found work nguetisute Klose etna caiittin evga ind
es rr iesetnce You gain proficiency in the Survival SMTA UM COLE MS ical tl ills TCHS) MANTA HET Role

: g gain P peel in several high-stakes dinosaur races. He lost more than
skill. Tortles have finely honed survival instincts. 5

ia z he won but caught the eye of the merchant prince Jobal,

inguages. You can speak, read, and write Aquan i + 7 é
who convinced him there was more profit in wilderness
and Common. 3 a w ”
exploration. Kwilgok the tortle (see “Tortles,” page
TorTLE GUIDES 23) became a guide and, like all legitimate guides in
SV | LL Port Nyanzaru, gives a slice of his earnings to Jobal.
The following tortle NPCs can be added to the list Kwilgok travels with a cantankerous ankylosaurus
of guides available for hire in Chult. One of the tortle named Deadly Treasure. The tortle rides in a howdah
guides, Kwilgok, works for the merchant prince Jobal on the ankylosaurus’s back and guides the beast using
in Port Nyanzaru. The others, Eeyal and Mudgraw, are a 10-foot pole with succulent leaves tied to one end. Al-
freelancers operating out of Fort Beluarian and Ahoy- though he doesn’t allow others to ride the beast, many
hoy, respectively. would-be explorers are so impressed by the dinosaur
E that they’re happy to pay Kwilgok’s fee of 6 gp per day,
eee i with payment for 30 days up front.
Tortle guide (Fort Beluarian) Although he’s an able and honest guide, Kwilgok won't
When the characters meet Eeyal, give them handout A stick his neck out for his employers. He gets steady work
at the end of this supplement. because of his easy-going demeanor and his willingness

Eeyal is a tortle (see “Tortles,” page 23) who wears to lead an expedition to any corner of Chult. He has trav-

goggles that she crafted for herself to protect her eyes eled up the River Soshenstar many times and knows
A THE TORTLE PACKAGE

=== PAGE 5 ===
the Aldani Basin and the surrounding region quite mining what the characters encounter, you can use the
well. He’s also led expeditions to Orolunga, though he’s information presented below to bring the encounter to
never encountered the elusive oracle rumored to dwell life. Let the players narrate their way through avoiding
there. One place he’d rather not revisit is Dangwaru, the easy encounters, or increase the difficulty of easy en-
Typhoon Palace. When he was young, Kwilgok decided counters to keep them exciting.
on a lark to explore the ruins and encountered evil shad- Random encounters aren't tailored to characters of
ows there. The shadows nearly spelled his doom, but a particular level. If the characters encounter hostile
he managed to flee the palace in a weakened state. The creatures beyond their ability to defeat, give them op-
shadows still haunt Kwilgok’s dreams, and he has no portunities to run, hide, negotiate, or otherwise avoid
wish to face them again. certain death. You can also have other creatures arrive
Kwilgok is 26 years old, stands just shy of 6 feet tall, and provide a distraction that the characters can use to
and weighs 450 pounds. make their escape. For example, if a character needs to
make a crucial ability check or saving throw, a chwinga
MupGRAw (see Tomb of Annihilation) might appear, cast guidance
Tortle druid guide (Ahoyhoy) or resistance on the character, and then disappear on its
When the characters meet Mudgraw, give them handout next turn.
Cat the end of this supplement.
Characters who visit the tortle fort of Ahoyhoy can SNouT OF OMGAR ENCOUNTERS
secure Mudgraw as a guide. Convinced that he is a nat- Encounter Land Water
ural leader, Mudgraw likes to bellow and be heard, and Almiraj 01-05 =
he never admits to being wrong, even when he doesn’t Ave beaks 06-10 =
eens psnae he’s talking about. The tortle druid (see Baboons 1-15 _
a pee e 3 ang a a oe anaes ‘ Bleed hawks 16-20 a
and is willing to travel off the island. He has previously 5
Gc bal 21-25 Q1-15
led expeditions to Omu, Shilku, and the Heart of Ubtao. aren — 26230
It's been five years since he last visited the Heart; conse- heer = -_
quently, he knows nothing about its current inhabitants. Diet ons SUES _
Mudgraw’s only visit to Omu, three years ago, ended Dojpnins = 16-30
in disaster. He and a company of human treasure-hunt- Eblis 36-40 _
ers from the city of Athkatla were ambushed by yuan-ti, Flail snail 41-45 =
and Mudgraw was forced to abandon his companions. Flying snakes 46-50 31-40
He hid in a ruin that was once a shrine to the god Ubtao, Geonids 51-55 —
was transfixed by the maze-like imagery on the walls, Giant lizards 56-60 —
and found a wooden holy symbol left behind by the Giant snapping turtle 61-65 41-50
shrine’s previous inhabitants. He believes that Ubtao Jaculis 66-70 —
helped him escape the city and now wears the holy sym- Marine decapus uz 51-60
bol around his neck. He regrets abandoning the expe- Sasieceonus _ 61-75
dition and (DKSt ets not to speak a it. One of his favorite Pteranodone 1-75 76-85
new sayings is, “Life is a maze.” Mudgraw uses it when- ReeretareS = 36-00
ever he’s vexed or when he has information he’d rather a
5 Stirges 76-80 —_—
not divulge. Toi 31285
Mudgraw is 44 years old, stands 6 feet tall, and aa = ~~
weighs 480 pounds. He charges 5 gp per day but will Velde 86-00 _y
waive his fee if he is given the chance to lead another K
expedition to Omu. Mudgraw sees any such expedition rene)
as an opportunity for atonement. The characters spot an almiraj (see Tomb of Annihila-
tion) roughly 60 feet away. The almiraj runs from any
creature that approaches within 30 feet of it. Any char-
E XPLORING THE ISLAN D acter who successfully traps the almiraj can use an ac-
Arain forest covers the relatively flat northwest corner tion to make a DC 14 Wisdom (Animal Handling) check.
of the island. This rain forest is surrounded by grassy If the check succeeds, the almiraj becomes calm and
hills to the north, sandy beaches to the east and west, doesn’t attack the character or run away unless it feels
and mountains to the south. The tortle fort of Ahoyhoy threatened or is harmed.
stands on the west coast, where the edge of the rain for-
est and the mountains meet. AXE BEAKS
A flock of 1d6 + 3 axe beaks stampede toward the char-
RANDOM ENCOUNTERS acters, slashing at anyone they can reach.
Be ad20 ae hae per day a game es checking BABOONS
oe Sree eis cach Morning, aiternoon, anc cvellng A pack of 3d6 baboons has adapted to living in small
or night. A random encounter occurs on a roll of 18 2 sce
: mountain caves but scurry down to the tree line in
or brates, ellleaail0) cial dines ite Sieh i Charis search of food. The baboons can be placated by tossin
Encounters table for the appropriate terrain. After deter- ; E y g
THE TORTLE PACKAGE F
5

=== PAGE 6 ===
each of them a day’s supply of food. Otherwise, they at- traveling. The snail wants to be left alone and attacks

tack, fleeing once their numbers are reduced by half. only those who antagonize it.

BLoop Hawks FLYING SNAKES

These bright red birds are common sights on the island. The party encounters 1d6 flying snakes. These snakes

They feed on flying snakes, and tortles hunt them for attack only when threatened. A flying snake that is suc-

sport. Blood hawks appear only during the day, and cessfully grappled can be stuffed in a sack or other soft

a typical encounter consists of 2d6 blood hawks that container. After 1 hour of confinement, the snake settles

attack until half of them are slain. If this encounter is down. A character who succeeds on a DC 13 Wisdom

rolled at night, treat it as no encounter. (Animal Handling) check can remove a calm snake from
the container without causing it to attack or fly away.

CANNIBALS

Human cannibals from the mainland use canoes to GEONIDS

reach the island. They come in search of shipwreck Geonids live in mountain caves, but they can be encoun-

survivors to hunt and eat. The characters encounter tered anywhere on the island. If the encounter occurs

3d6 hostile cannibals (CE male and female Chultan hu- during the day, the characters are ambushed by 244

man tribal warriors) who fight to the death. They wear geonids (see “Geonid,” page 22) disguised as small

leather masks made from skinned human faces and boulders. They demand at least 25 gp worth of treasure

crude jewelry made from human bones and teeth. for safe passage throughout their territory. If the en-
counter occurs at night, 3d6 geonids attempt to sneak

CHWINGA into the party’s camp and steal food.

A chwinga (see Tomb of Annihilation) takes an interest

in the characters. It attempts to steal something valuable GIANT LIZARDS

from an unguarded pack, but is noticed by any character The characters encounter 1d6 giant lizards. During the

who has a passive Wisdom (Perception) score of 17 or day, the lizards are well fed and flee if attacked; at night,

higher. The chwinga always leaves something else in they turn aggressive and attack characters who come

exchange: a pretty shell, a handful of nuts, or an uncut within 30 feet of them.

gemstone (10 gp). The Snout of Omgar is home to hundreds of giant
lizards. Tortles hunt them for their leather and meat,

DIMETRODONS and they use the lizards’ bones and teeth to make

If the characters are traveling near the shore, they see crude jewelry.

1d4 dimetrodons (see Tomb of Annihilation or Volo’s

Guide to Monsters) wallowing in shallow pools of water. GIANT SNAPPING TURTLE

These creatures turn hostile if disturbed. If the charac- These aggressive monsters like to bask on the island’s

ters are nowhere near water or camped for the night, warm rocks and shores, but occasionally one will ven-

the dimetrodons are on the move and attack anything in ture inland to find food. The characters encounter a lone

their path. giant snapping turtle (see Tomb of Annihilation) and
can avoid it by keeping their distance.

DOLPHINS

The party encounters 2d4 dolphins (see Volo’s Guide JACULIS

to Monsters) or 1 killer whale if you prefer. If the char- Without warning, 1d6 jaculis (see Tomb of Annihilation)

acters use magic to speak with the creatures, they can launch themselves at the party from trees or mountain

receive directions to the nearest coastal settlement. ledges. Any character with a passive Wisdom (Percep-
tion) score of 14 or higher spots the jaculis before they

EBLIS strike, but all others are surprised.

If the characters are on the move when this encounter

occurs, they stumble across 1d4 + 2 eblis (see Tomb MARINE DECAPUS

of Annihilation) on the hunt for lizards or flying snakes This marine decapus (see “Decapus,” page 21) preys

to eat. The eblis politely offer to trade information for on swimmers and will even snatch a rower from a canoe

treasure. For 50 gp worth of treasure, they will point (though it must use half of its tentacles to grab hold of

the adventurers in the direction of nearby landmarks. the vessel before doing so). The decapus withdraws into

The eblis attack if the characters refuse to trade and the depths if it loses more than half of its hit points.

are outnumbered. They flee if half of them are killed or

incapacitated. PLESIOSAURUS

If this encounter occurs while the party is camped, The characters blunder into the hunting ground of a

the eblis sneak into the camp and try to drag one char- hungry plesiosaurus that attacks passing canoes or

acter away. anything else it can wrap its jaws around.

FLAIL SNAIL PTERANODONS

Characters spot the slimy trail of a flail snail (see Tomb Pteranodons roost atop the mountains and gather in

of Annihilation or Volo’s Guide to Monsters). If they de- flocks to fish along the island’s shores. The characters

cide to follow it, a successful DC 10 Wisdom (Survival) spot 1d6 pteranodons nearby. The pteranodons keep

check correctly deduces which direction the snail was their distance and attack only if threatened.

6 THE TORTLE PACKAGE

=== PAGE 7 ===
é . SNOUT.oF OMGAR ssceirenee.a
5 ¥ Oh Do Ln : J di :
3 “e afer a Py el XG. ui, wrols
& te HicH HoRN=-~ A DRY J . ;
3 , : Z ay Se ia AE =
E ie Ae "Ye "Dp ae , x Z
= ~ sy (ee C / s¢ i
- or 2 Yi) . i OB
i Lge s Ey DF pyptk f
CUCSeS Fe a. os > g
3 ae = {¥ mid * oe - ad > =
ae Fr IMUDRITSOBELORRB MRE |< | % CN :
puorey ee TpeMsrainé oF FANG (a
RNC ome Ne See ; >
; ig ES Ste > 29 / gS s ya ¥
RA oe . Wie / pera eS
t 1 TA ‘3 ADANGHARUD a to/ \ KK se 5
5 (THE dy OONATAC) Roe NZS LG
is 44 was 5 A LASS Vs POs; j si
~ >t i ae Se hs yj La’ a
x ~S4 Ek NS Se j ‘ me (' ay
=< GEONID CAVES < » aera 7m Amey /, 3
ie fay NAN “
~ ck mee od Ne 49a =
* eo / Sy, - : a :
\ [eS Ss <
= ae 2 de 3
5 AS att =
J Lent 7 ’, >
: ) \ \ ec aaa 3
= Ca :
G 1/HEX= 5 MILES y : :
~S FUPLLTTRULY CPM TAM PLFMEEVINLEM (Reema emerson treme eer ereeNees lnittteresesieemeetysPeemetreeeren es, ttPmermvimeeneerare at
Mae 1; SNout oF Omcar
THE TORTLE PACKAGE
7

=== PAGE 8 ===
REEF SHARKS consult the Ahoyhoy Lore table to determine what infor-

The water surrounding the island is home to thousands mation is shared.

of reef sharks that are drawn by the scent of blood in

the water. A swimmer with an open, bleeding wound is AHOYHOY LORE

accosted by 1d6 reef sharks if it spends more than 1 d8 Lore

mormute ama the water 1 There are several shipwrecks off the northern

STIRGES point of the island. Most of the wrecks have been

The Snout of Omgar has plenty of caves, ruins, and plundered, but receding sand and water might

trees in which stirges can hide. By day, the characters reveal something precious yet to be claimed. It’s

disturb 2d6 stirges as they move through the jungle. safest to explore the wrecks at low tide. A two-

At night, the same number of stirges descend on the headed dinosaur haunts the shallows at high tide.

party’s camp. 2 There's an old trail leading from Ahoyhoy to

Raa ee Wee ae the ae ee

The characters are attacked by 1d4 + 2 topis (see “Topi,” i YP ee aac wh ae see ie

Page Da)ihiat eseaped from the Typhoon Palace, survivors of a shipwreck, but it’s been abandoned
for years. Evil spirits now watch over the palace,

TORTLE which is said to be full of treasure. (If characters

The characters encounter a tortle (see “Tortles,” page press for more information, share the additional

23). For suggested tortle names, see “Tortle Names,” bits of lore in the “Dangwaru” section.)

page 3. If this encounter occurs near the coast, the 3 Awhile back, while hunting flying snakes in the

tortle is a fisher with a fishing pole, a net, and a fish bas- jungle, | was attacked by shrunken zombies no

ket. If the encounter occurs inland, the tortle is hunting bigger than human children. | destroyed a few of

snakes, lizards, axe beaks, or blood hawks. hi id the rest fled. | haven’t seen them since.

The tortle tries to be helpful. If the characters are v en at .
looking for a settlement where they can rest and trade, as Asrailleads from) Alloy Noy toler ula
the tortle points them in the direction of Ahoyhoy. If the heart of the jungle. If you bathe in a mud pit
they're looking for adventure, it points them in the for at least an hour, it will fortify you.
direction of the Typhoon Palace. If a mystery is what > Carved into the base of the mountains east of
they seek, it points them in the direction of the Shrine Ahoyhoy is an old shrine that belonged to some
of Fangs. If they’re looking for shipwrecks to plunder, it kind of snake cult. It’s a place of mystery and
directs them toward High Horn. If they’re looking for a secrets.
good time, the tortle gives them directions to the Mud 6 Tortles mate and lay eggs when they grow old.
Pits of Florrb. The parents guard the eggs until they hatch, then
ISLAN D Lo CATIONS share their life experiences with the newborn

offspring. Not long after it learns to walk on two
The following locations are keyed to map 1. legs, a young tortle becomes an orphan ready to

make its mark on the world.
AHOYHOY oT A ship called the Stirge visits Ahoyhoy often. Its
The tortle fort of Ahoyhoy (see map 2) is situated on captain, Laskilar, is an unabashed pirate, but he
the northwest coast of the island. Tortles come here to always has useful goods to trade. After leaving
socialize, lay eggs, and meet with traders. The place has the Snout of Omgar, the Stirge usually heads to a
no government. Tortles and guests are expected to be on place called Jahaka Anchorage. I've never heard of
their best behavior, and those who become a nuisance 5 be Eranay, (Fer aise ivfeanciton
are asked to leave—or forced out, if necessary. It sot must ce th

At any given time, Ahoyhoy is home to 4d6 adult cn Sine ashi’ etn EEL EVsi HIE fo) Sc
tortles (see “Tortles,” page 23), 2d6 young tortles DombjojAnustulagion)

(noncombatants with AC 14 and 2 hit points each), and 8 The island is home to tiny, harmless elemental
an old tortle druid named Mudgraw (for roleplaying spirits called chwingas. If they like you, they will
notes, see “Tortle Guides,” page 4; for statistics, see give you gifts.

“Tortles,” page 23). Four of the adult tortles stand

watch on the ramparts (two in area 3 and two in area 9). The fort is built atop a rocky shelf that overlooks a
The remainder sleep on woven mats or busy themselves sandy beach. Visitors are free to set up tents on the
with crafts and projects (making crossbow bolts, gut- beach and conduct trade at the fort. Once every few
ting fish, repairing weather damage to the fort, and so months, a ship will drop anchor a few hundred yards
forth). The tortles prefer to sleep without roofs over their offshore and send crew members in rowboats to trade
heads. They lay their eggs in special areas covered with with the tortles. For more information on trading with
rope nets to protect the eggs from large flying predators. the tortles, see area 9.

If the characters prod the tortles of Ahoyhoy for lore Two trails lead away from Ahoyhoy. The north trail
about the island and its inhabitants, each tortle they talk cuts into the jungle and ends at the Mud Pits of Florrb.
to shares one piece of useful information. Roll a d8 and The south trail leads up the mountainside to Dangwaru.

3 THE TORTLE PACKAGE

=== PAGE 9 ===
a hanes = Bir cee a - 1 oo .S
i @ ) ee ee Mion "Np 3
a . 5 Le SS py z
; “35 2 Sed PA ce aie x § ol ted Zz
eS CA eons. PN > (eaten) OE i
108-2 DEO ENO ORK BO Pe!
Hi _ TAN CaF IS eo By sie Sees): Ao “4 :
eas PFE |) \ ie Dae Sar EO Bey Vek ee Ss :
TN Ws Joao Ses ey tO. at > Aa:
1] SEES ee OP Waar A De A
| ae ERRNO. on S « (la ae NS i eee 3
3 ge ~ ba & iS fly Ee os Be We) eal Me
oe(\ , ge bt SSR AT BOON RA TN wars
; i < iy Be) 2% “inayat = i : wae ‘OY < . :
ATOR ge RE acces? Y] ie ‘ SRREN: E
: ee ae ret OA NON . A ;
: FRC mS ESS YY SRT :
; Sa Ne Ss en SE ee :
2 3
Map 2: AHoyHoy
1. SourH GaTE 2. NorTH GATE AND COURTYARD
If the characters approach the fort from the south, read: If the characters approach the fort from the north, read:
A multitiered fort stands at the water’s edge, its sturdy A multitiered fort stands at the water's edge, its sturdy
stone walls adorned with large tortoise shells. The trail stone walls adorned with large tortoise shells. The trail
leading to the fort ends at a wooden double door. Two leading to the fort ends at a wooden double door. Two
guards stand watch atop the wall east of the gate. They guards are posted, one on each of the ramparts to each
look like overgrown, bipedal turtles armed with cross- side of the gate. They look like overgrown, bipedal turtles
bows. Outside the gate is a beach where a couple of armed with crossbows.
wide-bottomed fishing boats are tethered to piers.
The gate doors are identical to those found in area 1.
See area 9 for more information on the tortle guards. Two tortles (see “Tortles,” page 23) stand guard on
They are friendly toward visitors who show no outward 10-foot-high wooden ramparts that hug the inside of the
signs of hostility. wall. Ladders in the courtyard provide easy access to
The double door at the south gate is unlocked but the ramparts.
can be barred shut if the need arises. Forcing open Tortles often repair fishing nets in the courtyard,
the barred door requires a successful DC 27 Strength which is covered with a thin layer of sand. Short flights
(Athletics) check. The barred door can also be smashed of stone steps ascend to adjoining areas. A roofed stable
open; it has AC 15, a damage threshold of 10, 120 hit contains 1d4 boars and 1d4 mules in pens, plus 2d8
points, and immunity to poison and psychic damage. chickens in coops. Food for the animals is stored ina
The door is 10 feet tall and 12 feet wide, set into a loft. These animals are not indigenous to the Snout of
15-foot-high stone wall. The surrounding walls are also Omgar; the tortles procured them from visiting traders.
15 feet high.
Wooden stairs lead down to the beach. The tortle 3. LiviInG AREA
fishing boats are functionally identical to rowboats (see The ground here is covered with sand. Tortles come
chapter 5 of the Dungeon Master's Guide for more infor- here to sleep on woven mats, sit under shady awnings,
mation on rowboats). hang fish and meat to dry, cook food over small fires,
THE TORTLE PACKAGE 5

=== PAGE 10 ===
and drink from a central basin that collects rainwater. The tortles often acquire things they don’t need from
They also come here to socialize with one another. visitors so they can sell them to other visitors. If a char-
acter is looking to buy an item on the Weapons table, the
4. FISHING SPACE AND STORAGE Adventuring Gear table, the Tools table, or the Trade
Fishing gear and other supplies are stored here in crates Goods table (all in chapter 5 of the Player’s Handbook),
and barrels. Extending out from the walls are several there’s a 25 percent chance that the tortles have such an
long, wooden rods that tortles use to catch fish in the item to sell, or to trade for something of equal value. The
shallows. A polished metal star attached to a wooden tortles buy and sell shields, but not armor.
post is used to catch and reflect sunlight and moonlight. The Ahoyhoy Goods table contains unusual creatures
Tortles use this star as an alarm to warn fishing boats in and items that can be procured in the tortle settlement.
the western waters of an attack on the fort. If the characters want to obtain more than one of a
particular creature or item, roll a d4 to determine how
5. AMPHITHEATER many the tortles have to sell or trade.
Ahoyhoy’s tallest feature is a walled amphitheater where
tortles gather to discuss community matters and share AHoYHoy Goops
stories. Story time is an occasion the tortles of Ahoyhoy
look forward to, and storytellers are expected to weave Cost Goods
their tales in as entertaining a way as possible. Visitors 2sp 1 Ib. bushel of red blood hawk feathers
are free to participate, either as listeners or storytellers. lgp 2 |b. covered basket containing 4 poisonous
snakes or scorpions
6. Ecc HATCHERIES 2gp 2 |b. basket of ornamental shells or coral
Ahoyhoy has two large, sand-filled areas set aside as tor- ib. barrel confainine S016 ef :
tle hatcheries. Ropes are strung across these areas from GED . lle iigleen cme a sel g
the tops of the walls, forming nets that prevent pterano- Sgp 5b: wooden cage tet an eutrainedial:
dons and similar flying predators from stealing the eggs. miraj (see Tomb of Annihilation) or a baboon
There's a 20 percent chance that a hatchery contains 10 gp 5 lb. wooden cage holding a trained blood
1d12 tortle eggs. If eggs are present, 1d2 elderly tortles hawk or flying snake
(see “Tortles,” page 23) watch over them. Each tortle 25 gp Dimetrodon egg or pteranodon egg
egg weighs 5 pounds. A newborn tortle is usually con- 50gp Domesticated giant lizard (pack animal)
fined to its hatchery for a few months, until it learns to 50 gp Hooded, untrained axe beak on a rope leash
walk on two legs. 500 gp 500 gp diamond
7. GONG 500 gp 25 Ib. stack of flail snail shell fragments
A gong of beaten bronze wrapped in stitched lizard hide 1,000 gp Pouch containing ten 100 gp pearls
stands in the middle of the fort. A mallet hangs from the 5,000 gp 250 Ib. flail snail shell (intact)
post it’s attached to. The tortles of Ahoyhoy use a simple
set of gong signals:
+ One bong indicates the arrival of visitors by land. DaNGwaru (THE TYPHOON PALACE)
+ Two bongs indicates the arrival of visitors by ship. The Typhoon Palace (see map 3) has stood for almost a
+ Three bongs is a call to gather in the amphitheater. century. If the characters are of 3rd level or lower, they
+ Four bongs indicates that an attack is imminent. will need to rest and recuperate between palace encoun-
ters. They might even need to retreat and regroup a few
8. SMITHY times. Characters of 4th level or higher should be able to
The tortles use the easternmost area of the fort for clear out the palace with few (if any) rests.
crafting tools, shields, and weapons. It contains a stone Built by tortles, the palace is a sturdy, multilevel stone
forge and equipment for metalworking, stone carving, edifice with terraces carved out of the mountainside.
and hide tanning. In the middle of the area is a primitive Its name, Dangwaru, loosely translates to “high home”
wooden dummy the tortles use for weapon testing. in Aquan. No one remembers the name of the cleric for
whom the palace was built, but the tortles of the island
9. MARKET know the following bits of lore about Dangwaru and its
original inhabitants:
This walled area contains the trappings of a market. The + Almost a century ago, a storm caused a ship to crash
ground is covered with sand, upon which rest woven near High Horn. After pulling human survivors from
mats, wooden stalls, and display tables. A stone sundial the wreckage and the water, the tortles tried to make
. . . the humans feel at home.
stands in the middle of the market, and stairs lead up to A a A 5
+ The ship’s captain was a charismatic woman whom
wooden ramparts that line the southern wall. the tortles admired. She worshiped a sea goddess and
told stories about terrifying sea monsters, great ship
Tortles gather here to trade with friendly visitors. Two battles, and magnificent island palaces. The tortles
tortles (sce “Tortles,” page 23) stand guard on the built the Typhoon Palace for her so that she could feel
z eae at home on the island.
ramparts, keeping an eye out for visitors or trouble ap-
proaching from the south.
7 THE TORTLE PACKAGE

=== PAGE 11 ===
+ The captain and her crew lived in the palace for the 2. STATUE OF UMBERLEE
rest of their lives. The last of them perished more than A 10-foot-tall statue of the sea goddess Umberlee stands
fifty years ago. to the east of the palace’s portico. The statue, described
+ The palace is dilapidated and haunted. Young tortles in the read-aloud text for area 1, is harmless.
occasionally explore the ruins in search of treasure. The ground slopes up to the south, rising 5 feet until it
Most don’t get far before strange sounds and shadowy meets a 5-foot-wide, 8-foot-high crack in the palace wall
forms frighten them away. that provides access to area 7. The crack is clearly visi-
The tortles built the Typhoon Palace to withstand ble to anyone who enters this area.
storms, earthquakes, and the passage of time. Most of
the damage it has sustained is due to neglect, and the By Ov EnCROWwN CARDEN
damage is mostly superficial.
Ceilings within the palace are 15 feet high unless Wild ferns and palms dominate this overgrown garden.
otherwise noted. The walls are made of plaster-covered ee an
, ‘ Three statues, two depicting sharks and one depicting
stone. Embedded in the plaster are decorative stones, é ted at three-foot high st
oyster shells, starfish, and branches of coral. Doors are an ec Sige are moun “ BtOp a ree to . wens ene
Fae hionedcom thiciewoodand havenolocks: retaining wall overlooking the sea. Everything here is
Several areas contain magical wards that can be by- damp with spray from the crashing waves. A stone stair-
passed by anyone wearing a holy symbol of Umberlee. case climbs ten feet to a crumbling stone balcony that
The characters can find such a device in the wreck of stretches southward as it hugs the palace wall.
the Bitch Queen (see “High Horn,” page 18).
1. RuINED Portico It’s a 20-foot drop from the garden to the sea. During the
If the characters follow the trail south from Ahoyhoy to day, the garden is home to harmless lizards, snakes, and
Dangwaru, read or paraphrase the following: spiders, but nothing dangerous. At night, seven topis
(see “Topi,” page 23) lurk amid the plants and other
The trail clings to the mountainside and winds along the satel They try to surprise any character who wanders
into the garden. No treasure is hidden here.
island’s rocky coast for miles before ending at a stone
palace built thirty feet above sea level. Waves crash 4, ANTECHAMBER AND PORTCULLIS
against the rocks just below the palace walls. The palace doors open into an antechamber with a torch
The palace’s grand entrance features a colonnade of bracket mounted on the west wall. Set into the south
vine-wrapped pillars that leads to a stone double door Gell So Lier Niele eeleto UIs eet loti sel cia
ae I? ; . lowered using the winch in area 5. Although the port-
carved with foamy waves that part in the middle. Sec- cullis is too sturdy to be damaged by weapons, casting
tions of the portico’s roof have fallen in, and palm trees a knock spell on the portcullis raises it. A character can
and ferns sprout from between the cracked flagstones. also lift the portcullis with a successful DC 25 Strength
Scores of harmless lizards use the shaded areas of the (Athletics) check, and a Small character can squeeze
: ea between the portcullis bars with a successful DC 20
portico as a den. East of the portico is a ten-foot-tall - zi
an Dexterity (Acrobatics) check.
statue choked with vines. It has the head and torso of
a woman and a twisting wave of water where her legs 5. FEAST HALL
should be. Beyond the west side of the portico, an over-
grown garden terrace overlooks the thundering sea. A rusty iron chandelier hangs by a chain above a once-
grand dining table situated in the middle of a large room.
Slanting beams of sunlight or moonlight shine through Light dapples the table through holes in the roof, and a
the holes in the portico roof, depending on the time of few harmless tropical birds flap about. The tiled floor is
day or night. Although the tiny lizards are harmless, a littered with broken dishes, bird droppings, and other
hostile giant lizard lurks amid the plants in the south- : . A 7
s detritus. A wide staircase to the south climbs five feet to
east corner of the portico. Characters who enter the por- |
tico can spot the giant lizard with a successful DC 15 a raised gallery that surrounds the room. Old, framed
Wisdom (Perception) check. Anyone who comes within pictures of sailing ships hang on the gallery walls. Three
20 feet of it or the portcullis (see area 4) is attacked. The closed sets of doors lead from the upper area to other
giant lizard is hungry and fights until slain. parts of the palace. A fourth doorway in the southeast
The double door is unlocked and pushes open on F
eee i corner is almost completely blocked by rubble.
rusty, squealing iron hinges. If the characters have
found a holy symbol of Umberlee amid the wrecks of
High Horn (see “High Horn,” page 18) or elsewhere, This ruined feast hall contains nothing of value. Char-
they realize that the splitting waves carved on the dou- acters who search the walls, however, find a small iron
ble door closely match the symbol. key hidden behind one of the framed pictures. The key,
which has a head shaped like an anchor, unlocks the
painted chest in area 18.
THE TORTLE PACKAGE =

=== PAGE 12 ===
2 hat A arma y
siamese) So foes |. @BMaRge Z
= DACA SYA as 0 ib :
=a SRM AS EAS Sheth Gee Geet Ga = es s
Ai - Sy ae See le Rs
Sade aay ' Sa oe OG O00 ae
4 ar oy 330K: oo Be an Ww |) pee =
. he at eh ABS >| wes — co = - ‘ “ x :
eee
E ~ S if _ ee Z
i . ers Py 3 ois “ a :
So Beene | hg) ta > 3
ou aye ane x ie
iG OG ieamor@e Fo!
= a(y, ¢) Subs Ve Mi opal a Pi S67
ES y Whar Es ‘g fa (i) te TB
3 a “Mee oe F ye OO A till : i 24 , 4. =
. ii iy Ne = ims fh | aler + ry
Z 78 aap. #e C 4 (On 5
Tab ch Wet 3a. eee
= 3 AY a 2 is 19) me  — 4
=i ae a ?
~S Bu). ae (AE RRATNOREttce (MTL ILIETLRDES (MUR teereeereee’ ditcomememerers! MME emeenral ="
Map 3: DANGwaRU
a THE TORTLE PACKAGE

=== PAGE 13 ===
The winch mechanism to raise and lower the portcul- A glyph of warding spell triggers the first time the
lis (area 4) is on the east wall in the northwest section of statuette is removed from the pedestal by a creature that
the gallery. is not wearing a holy symbol of Umberlee. A character
The debris in the southeast corner is the result of a who studies the statuette and succeeds on a DC 15 In-
partial collapse of the roof. It can be cleared by a single telligence (Investigation) check spots the nearly invisible
character in 4 hours, or in proportionately less time by glyph, which is inscribed on the trident. When triggered,
two or more characters working together. Once the de- the glyph erupts with magical energy in a 20-foot-radius
bris is cleared, the doorway leads to area 9. sphere centered on it. Each creature in the area must
make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw, taking 22 (5d8)
6. ABANDONED QUARTERS thunder damage on a failed save, or half as much dam-
age on a successful one.
This room contains a number of beds, couches, and 9. CRAB PooL
other furnishings, all of which have seen better days. A partial collapse of the roof has filled the western door-
Plaster has fallen from the ceiling and walls, adding to way with rubble. Characters can’t use the doorway until
the refuse and disarray. Across from the double door, a the rubble is cleared away (see area 5 for details).
narrow window looks out toward the sea.
The plastered walls of this dark room are slick with mois-
A search of the room yields nothing of interest or value. ture and set with colorful stones, starfish, shells, and
The window is wide enough for a Small or Medium coral branches. Extruding from the east wall is a stone
character to crawl through. sculpture of a giant crab, its pincered arms hugging a
7. RuInep BATH ten-foot-wide sions basin. A tickle ol water flows from
Characters can enter this room through the door on the the crab’s mouth into the basin. Holes in the basin’s
west wall or the 5-foot-wide crack in the north wall. rim serve as drains to keep the pool from overflowing.
Through a narrow window in the south wall comes the
A sunken bath choked with plant life dominates this crashiof tidallsea water Towing iniardiout ofjaicave:
room, the plastered walls of which are set with colorful
coral branches and shells. More plants erupt through The tortles built a cistern on the roof that catches rain-
gaps between the flagstones, creating a veritable jungle water and channels it through the crab sculpture into
" the pool. If a creature bathes in the pool, a dozen crabs
in here. A bat flutters about, alerted by your presence. ‘ .
scuttle out of holes in the giant stone crab sculpture to
clean the bather. The process takes 10 minutes. The
In addition to the harmless bat, the ruined bath is home crabs are harmless and can be killed normally.
to several harmless lizards, snails, and spiders. A detect magic spell reveals an aura of transmutation
Treasure. A character who searches the 3-foot-deep magic emanating from the pool. The pool has the follow-
sunken bath and succeeds on a DC 13 Wisdom (Percep- ing powers, which an identify spell can ascertain:
tion) check finds a holy symbol of Umberlee (25 gp) in + Acreature that speaks a prayer to Umberlee while
the undergrowth; see handout D for an illustration. tossing 10 gp or more worth of treasure into the pool
gains the magical ability to breathe water for 24 hours
8. SHRINE _ a ae ale
while retaining its normal mode of respiration. The
treasure vanishes as the blessing is conferred.
A stone pedestal stands atop a circular dais in the mid- + Any creature that damages the basin must succeed on
dle of this room. Atop the pedestal, facing the double 2 DC 15 Constitution saving throw or be transformed
. . into a crab for 24 hours. The effect is otherwise
door to the east, is a ten-inch-tall wooden statuette of a x
identical to that of the polymorph spell.
a woman holding a trident, with a shark’s tail instead : i ——
2 Window. The window in the south wall is wide
of legs. Four iron torch brackets are bolted to the damp .
, . ; s enough for a Small or Medium character to crawl
walls, which are covered with peeling plaster and set with through. It looks out into a flooded sea cave (area 12)
colorful coral branches and starfish. A narrow window and is 25 feet above the water level.
across from the double door looks out toward the sea.
10. CRUMBLING WALKWAY
A stone walkway above the water’s edge has partially
The window is wide enough for a Small or Medium collapsed into the churning sea, leaving wide gaps.
character to crawl through. What remains of the walkway is structurally sound. To
Trapped Relic. The statuette on the pedestal rep- cross the damaged area safely on foot, a creature must
resents Umberlee. A tortle carved it out of driftwood, succeed on a DC 15 Strength (Athletics) check. If the
painted it, and gave it to the palace’s Umberlee worship- check fails, the creature falls 30 feet down a rocky slope,
ers as a gift. It was placed here so that visitors could taking 10 (3d6) bludgeoning damage from the fall and
prostrate themselves before the sea goddess. landing in 10-foot-deep water.
THE TORTLE PACKAGE s

=== PAGE 14 ===
Characters who ascend the walkway from the north + A humanoid that sits in the throne can transform itself
can circumvent the damaged section by crawling into a sea gull (use the raven statistics without the
through the window into area 6, moving through the Mimicry trait) or an octopus. The effect is identical
palace, and exiting through the window in the west wall to that of a polymorph spell, except the duration is 8
of area 8, from where they can continue to the south. hours and the creature can end the effect on itself at

Seaside Entrance. At the south end of the walkway is any time (no action required).

a stone double door. The doors are carved with foaming

waves that part in the middle, and they swing into area 12. SEA CAVE

11 on rusty iron hinges.

1l. ToronEe Room Sea water rushes in and out of this damp cave, crashing
During the day, sunlight slips through cracks in the ceil- against the walls and filling the cave with a cold spray.
ing and a window in the west wall, dimly illuminating Clinging to the wall beyond the door is a semicircular
the area. On clear nights, moonlight does the same. The stone balcony. Near the back of the cave hangs a sagging
sound of crashing waves is constant, day and night. bridge made of frayed ropes and wooden planks, Be-

tween them, carved into the north wall midway between
Peeling murals adorn the plastered walls of this throne the balcony and the bridge, is a narrow open window.
room, depicting tentacled sea monsters dragging storm-
tossed ships to their doom. Set into the plaster are white The water here ig 20 feeudeepandtamuliousean
coral branches and mosaics in the form of sharks made creature that starts its turn in the water must succeed
of decorative stones and shells. Pillars carved to look like ona DC 10 Strength saving throw or be dashed against
thick strands of kelp support the cracked, thirty-foot-high the walls, taking 2d6 bludgeoning damage, and dragged
domed ceiling. Two pairs of wooden statues of turtle-like 1d6 x 5 feet westward or eastward by the current as the
humanoids stand on opposite sides of the room. Be- waten pushes into the cave Ontecedes)

Balcony. The stone balcony is 30 feet above the water
tween the southern pair extends a dark hallway. A dais and connected to the throne room (area 11) by a stone
against the east wall supports a granite throne carved double door.
to resemble an octopus. Behind the throne is a double Bridge. The bridge hangs 30 feet above the water and
door, next to which stands a tall clay urn. Set into the Comnee(s areas 22 and 24. Many of its planks are miss-
wall opposite the throne is a nine-foot-tall, arched win- ing, and those that rear rotted and unsafe. When

a character uses the bridge, roll a d6. Ona roll of 1, a
dow that looks out over the sea: plank snaps underfoot, forcing the character to succeed
on a DC 10 Dexterity saving throw or fall into the water
Four shadows lurk here. These undead remnants of below. Roll only once per character per crossing. Each
long-dead Umberlee worshipers do their utmost to sur- time the bridge loses a plank, increase the DC of future
prise and kill intruders. They have arms that look like saving throws by 1.
tentacles, and their Strength Drain attacks have a reach Window. The window in the north wall is wide
of 10 feet instead of 5 feet. Otherwise, their statistics are enough for a Small or Medium character to crawl
unchanged. The shadows can’t go outside, nor can they through. The opening is 25 feet above the water level.
communicate. They fight until turned or destroyed. ISARUINED GuARDiROoM

The room also contains a mimic, disguised as the clay .
urn on the east wall. The mimic preys on creatures dis- Characters can enter this room through an open door-
Oe aeted. by dhe <iadowo of walls Wo atiack somiente who way in the west wall or the stone double door to the east.

ry;
inspects the eastern doors. If the mimic is reduced to
half its hit points or fewer, it attempts to withdraw. The The outside door of this room has fallen in, and veg-
shadows and the mimic ignore each other. 4 aoe i .

etation has crept inside. Vines and plants grow amid
Statues. The four wooden statues are carved and . . .

paintedito look like tortles. They stand 6 feet tall and wrecked furniture, and tropical birds nest on shelves and
weigh 200 pounds each. in niches. Stairs to the west curl down to a vast, multi-

Throne. The granite throne weighs 3,000 pounds and level garden terrace.
radiates a strong aura of transmutation magic under the
scrutiny of a detect magic spell or a similar effect. An ae ae
identify spell reveals its magical properties: The furnishings fall apart if disturbed. A search of the

room yields nothing of value.
+ Ahumanoid that sits in the throne can use it to cast

the control weather spell without needing compo- 14. TERRACE GARDEN

nents. As long as the creature remains seated in the During the day, six blood hawks circle the garden at a

throne, it doesn’t need to concentrate to maintain the height of 60 feet. These aggressive, red-feathered birds

spell. Leaving the throne ends the effect, whereupon prey on lizards and other small animals, and they gang
the weather gradually returns to normal. up on a character who explores the terraced garden
alone. The blood hawks aren’t present at night.
eh THE TORTLE PACKAGE

=== PAGE 15 ===
Bathroom. The eastern door off the cleric’s bedcham-

Waves crash against a rocky promontory, built atop ber opens into a tiled bathroom. The bathtub is a long,
which is a spectacular, multilevel garden, its terraces rectangular stone basin set in the floor. Pipes connect
overgrown with vegetation and hemmed in by stone walls the basin to a rain-catching cistern on the roof. Next to
with statues of sharks at their corners. Stone steps con- the basin is a stone plug that can be used to keep the

: 5 water from draining out through the hole in the bottom
nect the lower terraces with the higher ones. .

. . . . of the basin.

Built atop the highest terrace is an ornate, vine-draped Vectbulethe western door off thercleric’s bedchane
gazebo flanked by palm trees. Cracked steps east of the ber opens into a vestibule where the cleric of Umberlee
gazebo rise to a landing in front of a set of doors carved kept her personal belongings. Stone shelves stand
to resemble a giant wave that parts in the middle. against the bare stone walls, and two wooden chests

rest in the middle of the floor.
The shelves contain worthless wooden statuettes of
Elevation markers on map 3 indicate the heights of the sea creatures given to the cleric of Umberlee by tortle
various terraces above sea level. admirers, as well as four moldy books that are the logs
In the gazebo lurks a hungry decapus (see “Decapus,” from her days as captain of the Bitch Queen. These old
page 21) that attacks the first creature that comes logbooks chronicle the ship’s voyages and are worth 25
within reach. The decapus has advantage on Dexterity gp each to an interested buyer in any port city.
(Stealth) checks made to hide under the gazebo's roof. The chests are locked, and their keys can be found
Treasure. The floor of the gazebo is littered with the in area 24. Picking a lock requires thieves’ tools and a
remains of past meals, including lizard bones, blood successful DC 15 Dexterity check. One chest contains
hawk feathers, and two tortle shells. Amid the refuse is five outfits of traveler’s clothes sized for a large human
a ring made of lapis lazuli (25 gp). The ring has a mag- female. The other chest holds priestly vestments befit-
ical quirk that causes its wearer to experience a recur- ting a cleric of Umberlee and eight iron keys of differ-
ring nightmare after sleeping for more than 1 hour with ent shapes and sizes. The keys open eight of the nine
the ring on. The nightmare is vivid: the wearer is en- chests in area 18. (The ninth key was taken and hidden
gulfed by a sperm whale while clinging to a floating bar- in area 5.)
rel on a stormy sea. After being swallowed whole in the
nightmare, the ring wearer awakens, no worse for wear. 16. KITCHEN AND STORAGE
15. CLERIC’s CHAMBERS
The Typhoon Palace’s resident cleric of Umberlee This kitchen has not been disturbed in years, and its con-
claimed these rooms for herself. The double door to this tents are covered with dust and cobwebs. A stone oven
suite has a glyph of warding spell inscribed above it that is built into one wall, and narrow doors open into store-
triggers when a creature passes between the opened rooms and pantries.
doors. Only a creature wearing a holy symbol of Umber-
lee does not trigger the glyph and can pass through the
doors safely. A character who studies the door frame Characters who search the room can salvage enough
and succeeds on a DC 15 Intelligence (Investigation) material to assemble five mess kits. Any food that was
check spots the nearly invisible glyph. When triggered, once stored here has long since perished.
the glyph erupts with magical energy in a 20-foot-radius
sphere centered on it. Each creature in the area must 17. HALLWAY
make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw, taking 22 (5d8)
ppl ontaee Omelet ed eave, Or ball as much damage This arched hallway is reinforced with stone buttresses,
on a successful one. . .
When the characters first lay eyes on the cleric’s bed- between which are painted murals depicting gloomy un-
chamber, read: derwater scenes. A large double door stands to the west,
and a flickering orb is embedded in the wall at the east
This palatial bedchamber is eerily quiet and still. Cracks end onthe lal {slong tue Halll sleneta are twornoretscts
have formed in the blue plaster walls, set into which are giclee doors, a single door, and two clay urns covered
colorful coral branches and seashells. Pillars carved to withidustandicobwebs’
resemble tentacles support the vaulted ceiling, which
features a large dome painted to look like the night sky. The orb at the east end of the hall is made of crystal and
Beneath the dome and between the pillars, a large bed radiates an aura of conjuration magic under the scrutiny
. . . : of a detect magic spell or similar effect. The orb, which
stands atop a wide, circular dais. The bed’s wooden aa . ‘ "

. . | is 1 foot in diameter, sheds bright light in a 30-foot ra-
frame is carved to resemble surging waves. Set into the dius and dim light for an additional 30 feet. Whenever
north wall are two doors. Dust covers everything. acreature touches the orb, roll a d6. On a roll of 2 or

higher, the orb teleports the creature to area 24. Ona
The bedchamber contains nothing of value. The doors to cou Ot tae ou) anelitiinetiions cua canis lining me
z 100-foot-long line as wide as the hall. Each creature in
the north lead to smaller rooms described below.
THE TORTLE PACKAGE =

=== PAGE 16 ===
the area of effect must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving magic spell or similar effect. When a creature openly
throw, taking 14 (4d6) lightning damage on a failed wearing or brandishing a holy symbol of Umberlee
save, or half as much damage on a successful one. The comes within 10 feet of the face, its mouth opens wide,
orb can’t be removed from its wall fixture. It has AC 10, creating a 5-foot-diameter opening that allows access
1 hit point, and immunity to poison and psychic damage. to the caves beyond (area 22). The opening is lined with
Destroying the orb extinguishes its light and renders the rows of triangular teeth similar to those of a giant shark,
pieces nonmagical. but they are easily avoided. The mouth closes after 1
The doors along the north wall open into the rooms minute but can be reopened from either side.
beyond. The doors to the west and south have hinges on Treasure. This room contains booty ransacked from
this side and open into the hallway. shipwrecks, held in two sealed barrels, nine locked
The clay urns are purely decorative and contain noth- wooden chests, four clay urns, and four sealed crates.
ing of value. The Treasury Containers table describes each container
and its contents. Keys that unlock chests 1 through 8
18. TREASURY can be found in area 15; the key that unlocks chest 9 is
When characters peer into this area from area 17, read: hidden in area 5. A character using thieves’ tools can
unlock a chest with a successful DC 15 Dexterity check.
Beyond the double door is a twenty-foot-wide, twenty-
TREASURY CONTAINERS
foot-long hallway leading to a dark, pillared chamber
r . Container Contents
strewn with chests, crates, and other containers. Every-
A 4 Barrel 1 40 gallons of common wine
thing is covered with dust, but not enough to conceal the
A Barrel 2 80 pounds of salt
broken bones and weapons lying on the hallway floor. ‘ 7
Chest 1 150 gp of Maztican mintage
Chest 2 (scorched Three blank spellbooks (50 gp
The remains on the floor belong to a pair of long-dead by fire) each) and a small wooden case
thieves. Characters who brush away the dust also find containing twenty candles
bloodstains and deep scratches on the floor. These clues Chest 3 (covered A neatly folded wedding gown and
suggest the presence of a trap. with claw marks) veil (25 gp)
Crusher Trap. The 20-foot-square area south of the — .
‘ : 5 Chest 4 Aset of alchemist’s supplies and
double door contains a mechanical trap with a mag- js
x 5 7 four flasks of alchemist’s fire
ical sensor. When a creature enters this area, giant . _
spring-loaded gears hidden in the walls cause blocks of Chest 5 (rotted) A suit of scale mail (50 gp) and a
stone on either side of the hall to slam together. Only a steel helm with an electrum fish
creature wearing a holy symbol of Umberlee can move mounted atop it (50 gp)
through the area without triggering the trap. A char- Chest 6 (stained A diplomat’s pack (see the “Equip-
acter standing north or south of the trapped area can with blood) ment Packs” sidebar in chapter 5
discern, by looking at the scratches on the floor, that the of the Player's Handbook)
walls are movable blocks of stone, but there’s no way to Chest 7 (stamped A spyglass inlaid with mother-
identify the trap’s trigger or the method of bypassing it Withtthe crestor of-pearl (1,000 gp), resting on a
without experimentation or the use of divination magic. Baldur's Gate) urple velvet pillow
Acreature between the colliding blocks of stone must h a B maar P kh fi
make a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw. On a success, cesta Eity vials cf Zakuaraqperirel
the creature leaps out of the way in whichever direction gp each)
it prefers, north or south. On a failed save, the crea- Chest 9 (painted A Quaal’s feather token (anchor)
ture takes 44 (8d10) bludgeoning damage. A creature with an image of an buried under 200 gp
reduced to 0 hit points by this damage is crushed to a anchored ship)
pulp. After they slam shut, the blocks take 1 minute to Crate 1 A griffon saddle (60 gp)
retract into the walls, whereupon the trap resets. , Crate 2 (stamped A disassembled 300-pound
Sculpted Visage. A wide alcove in the east wall is not with the cresror wooden sled (20 gp), with assem-
visible from the northern entrance. When characters see ; pe
: Waterdeep) bly instructions in Common
the alcove for the first time, read:
Crate 3 A lute (35 gp), a lyre (30 gp), anda
viol (30 gp) packed in straw
At the back of a recess in the east wall is a giant stone Crate 4 Five heavy crossbows and 100
visage rendered in bas-relief. The face is that of a divinely crossbow bolts packed in straw
beautiful woman with kelp for hair, eyelids like seashells, Clay urn 1 Empty
and a vaguely menacing half-smile. Clay urn 2 Empty
Clay urn 3 (painted Ten 50-foot-long coils of hempen
with pegasi images! rope (1 gp each
The face, which is 12 feet tall and 10 feet wide, rep- cl P - 7 : 7 an : &P fd ) k ieink
resents the sea goddess Umberlee. It radiates an aura 3y urn a e (Sore Kee lao) tel aod
of transmutation magic under the scrutiny of a detect with squid images)
THE TORTLE PACKAGE
16

=== PAGE 17 ===
19. GLAss STATUE 21. LOUNGE
This dark, rectangular room contains a seven-foot-tall Two sets of double doors lead into this chamber, anda
glass statue of a scowling woman with octopus tentacles narrow window between them looks onto an overgrown
for arms emerging from dark ocean waves. Three dusty garden terrace. The furnishings here have deteriorated
rugs lie at the statue’s base. with age. The plastered walls are peeling, and tropical
birds have made nests in the cracked ceiling. A staircase
Close inspection reveals that the statue is hollow and flanked by marble pillars climbs to a raised stone plat-
filled with swirling water. The statue has AC 10, 10 hit form decorated with tattered rugs, cushions, and tapes-
points, and immunity to poison and psychic damage. If tries. About the room are three clay urns painted with im-
the statue is shattered, the water spills out and takes the ages of sharks and octopuses, and two rotted couches.
form of a water elemental under the command of the
one who released it. The elemental understands Aquan
only and does not heed commands it can’t understand. It Six topis (see “Topi,” page 23) hide in the clay urns,
disappears 1 hour after being set free. two per urn. All six emerge and attack if any urn is dis-
turbed or if the double door to the west is opened.
20. HAUNTED CAGE
22. CAVES OF WORSHIP
. . - | This area consists of three natural caves connected by
Hanging by a chain from the ceiling of this dark, rectan- tunnels. Sea mist sprays from the north, and the noise
gular room is an old diver's cage with barnacles clinging of crashing waves echoes throughout. Within each cave
to it. The cage is eight feet tall, five feet in diameter, and is a 5-foot-deep pool of water. Harmless crabs scuttle
dangles two feet off the floor. Tattered rugs are splayed across the floor, and glistening snails cling to the walls.
out before it. Other furnishings include bare shelves and A few smashed barrels and crates are scattered about.
inted el rr dind d cobweb: As the characters move through the caves, a hungry
(PEI ke) Bes el eee ae UTe Nsel Ace xorn emerges from a wall behind them and demands
food (in Terran). If the characters don’t quickly feed the
The largest rug is a rug of smothering. It attacks the xorn at least 50 ep worth of gems or coins, it attacks
first creature that disturbs it. The urns contain the them. If the xorn is properly fed or reduced to fewer than
skulls and bones of six dead Umberlee worshipers. half its hit points, it sinks back into the stone.
The cage was salvaged from the Bitch Queen (see 23. BLow Hoes
“High Horn,” page 18), where it was used for deep- Mt . dictable int 1 ; natin h
sea salvaging in shark-infested waters. It was also used f ee ic eee ee fe soe ‘o. ieee ae d
by the captain to torture and drown prisoners. If a living oe Le, es ee ee Ong, iss an
creature touches the cage, a neutral merfolk ghost mate- thenrushes back into area 12, dragging creatures inthe
rializes inside it. The ghost is all that remains of Sibur- tunnel along with it. Roll a d6 at the end of any turn in
methine merfollcchonees Cantered and tortured which one or more creatures are in the tunnel. On a roll
by the Bitch Queen's captain over a century ago. Sibur- of 1 or 2, water erupts from the blow holes and quickly
rath’s ghost can’t leave the cage unless it possesses recedes, forcing all Medium or smaller creatures in
someone, and it can’t rest until its torturer is slain. the tunnel to make 2 DC 10 Strength cae throw.
The ghost tries to possess the first character to come Any creature that fails the save is flushed into area 12,
within 5 feet of it, with the intent of using the host to taking 5 (2d4) bludgeoning damage as it plunges down
id Bee 4 the nearest blow hole. If the creature is secured by a
find and kill its torturer. If the ghost fails to possess iti i: 1 f th 1 bue
someone, it tries to persuade the characters (in Aquan TORS EES SCRE Oey Ory a ee we Tope ae
or Common) to help it find peace. The ghost can sense still takes damage. A character flushed into area 12 can
that its torturer is nearby, but can’t discern the exact lo- iake/a DC'S Dexterity check to ride alwave backup
t if a through one of the blow holes. On a successful check,
cation. If the characters kill the slug creature in area 24, ech takes 5 (244) blud ine di d
the ghost is laid to rest, and the characters receive XP I ae aractee ae ¢ 1 ) bludgeoning damage an
as though they had defeated the ghost in combat. EELTCGIS (OTROS EATERS TSI
Treasure. When the ghost is laid to rest, it leaves 24. SHRINE OF UMBERLEE
behind a pearlescent conch shell that weighs 2 pounds.
The conch radiates an aura of evocation magic under
the scrutiny of a detect magic spell or similar effect. Rising up from the floor of this damp, dark cave is a
An identify spell reveals that the conch is a single-use grotesque, ten-foot-tall statue of a sea monster with
Te ee oa like a hea octagon glistening eyes and tentacles. A raised stone basin, its
effect identical with that of a Leomund’s tiny hut spell. aa earveditolteserblela surging wave; stardoviearby,
The conch disappears once the spell takes effect. The Against the walls are two smashed crates, two clay urns,
effect ends if the creature that blew the horn leaves the and three rotted wooden chests.
spell’s area.
THE TORTLE PACKAGE “=

=== PAGE 18 ===
The statue depicts a kraken—one of Umberlee’s many GEONID CAVES
forms. Characters who approach the statue see a crea- a a. a oe
ture clinging to the ceiling behind it: The mountains are riddled with natural caves that have
been taken over and expanded by geonids. Each lair is a
small labyrinth of twisting tunnels and chambers inhab-
Clinging to the ceiling behind the statue is a nine-foot-long ited by 2d6 geonids (see “Geonid,” page 22).
slug with glistening black skin and tentacles sprouting Each cave system is strewn with the bones of the geo-
from its head. It opens its mouth, revealing sharp teeth. nids’ past meals (bats, rats, and lizards, mostly). There
is a 30 percent chance that the geonids share their lair
either with a flail snail (see Tomb of Annihilation or
The giant slug used to be the cleric of Umberlee for Volo’s Guide to Monsters) that doesn’t react kindly to
whom the Typhoon Palace was built. The sea goddess intruders or a gluttonous xorn that demands gemstones
transformed the cleric as a punishment for some un- for safe passage.
known offense. The giant slug has no recollection of its
previous life and has the statistics of a carrion crawler, TREASURE
with the following changes: Geonids hide their treasure at the back of their lairs. A
P a thorough search of the deepest cave uncovers 2d10 gp
> The giant slug has 66 hit porte) . worth of stone jewelry and art objects (carved figurines,
+ Ithasa walking speed and climbing speed of 10 feet. talismans, and the like), as well as 1d4 uncut gemstones
It ea climb difficult surfaces, including upside down worth 10 gp each. Each time the characters find such a
on ceilings, without needing to make an ability check. hoard, there’s a cumulative 20 percent chance that the
+ Itcan innately east each of the following spells once trove includes a 6-inch-tall obsidian figurine of a coiled
Wisdom (spell save DC 11; +3 to hitwith spel attacks), Se0mld stole it from the Shrine of Fangs, and its petura
+ When the slug takes damage in this cave, it can use its P a ES, pag ’
reaction to animate one of the tentacles of the kraken HicH Horn
statue and cause it to make a melee weapon attack (+3 08s a eel
to hit) against one creature within 20 feet of the statue
that the slug can see. The tentacle deals 8 (1d8 + 4) Standing atop a rocky crag at the northernmost tip of the
bludgeoning damage on a hit. f z .
Meares ncactorcange of 00 fece island, facing northwest, is a thirty-foot-tall stone statue
+ It understands Abyssal, Aquan, and Common, but of a turtle-like humanoid with a large stone horn held up
can't speak. to its mouth. Below the monument is a stretch of sandy
+ It has a challenge rating of 3 (700 XP). beach covered with shells. Black, moss-covered rocks jut
Also present are two shadows similar to those found from the water like teeth worn down by time. Just beyond
in area 11. They emerge from behind the kraken statue these “teeth” are several barnacle-covered shipwrecks.
and attack if the giant slug is harmed. If the slug is
reduced to 11 hit points or fewer, it casts sanctuary on
dtselfand cowers behind the kraken‘statue: The statue depicts a long-dead tortle named Gumdarr,
Statue and Holy Symbol. The statue weighs 5,000 who heard a ship crash on the rocks and stood atop the
pounds and is covered with slimy mildew. Lying on the crag to get a better look. He blew a horn to lure other
floor behind the statue is a holy symbol of Umberlee tortles to the beach, and together they fished out the sur-
(25 gp) that has a minor magical quirk: when carried or vivors of the shipwreck.
worn by someone who is not a worshiper of Umberlee, Six ships have crashed here in the past one hundred
the holy symbol fills its owner with a sense of dread. years, including the ship that brought the cleric of Um-
This holy symbol once belonged to the cleric of Umber- berlee and her crew to the island. At high tide, three
lee, but she has no use for it in her current form. See of the wrecks (the Bitch Queen, the Carcerius, and the
handout D for an illustration of the holy symbol. Sea Mare) are submerged, while the others (the Dawn
Stone Basin. The cleric of Umberlee used this basin Avenger, the Dirty Dastard, and the Virago) are at least
as a scrying pool. Pipes built into its base fill the basin partially visible above the waterline. At low tide, all six
with seawater until it overflows. At the bottom of the wrecks are visible to some extent. Each shipwreck is
basin, under 10 gallons of seawater, are two rusty iron described below.
keys. The keys unlock the chests in area 15. A two-headed plesiosaurus prowls the water around
Treasure. The smashed crates, the clay urns, and the wrecks at high tide. The creature withdraws to the
two of the rotting chests are empty. The third chest is northern strait when the tide goes out. It has the statis-
unlocked and contains 120 sp and 70 cp in a moldy sack tics of a plesiosaurus, with these changes:
(tribute to Umberlee), two potions of healing in flasks + The two-headed plesiosaurus has 100 hit points.
made from hollowed-out sea urchins, a driftglobe, and a + It has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks
coral crown (250 gp). and on saving throws against being blinded,
Development. Killing the giant slug lays the spirit of charmed, deafened, frightened, stunned, or knocked
Siburrath (See area 20) to rest. unconscious.
4 THE TORTLE PACKAGE

=== PAGE 19 ===
+ It can use its action to make two bite attacks, one with Dirty DASTARD

each head. This pirate ship sank nine years ago. It sits upside down
+ It has a challenge rating of 4 (1,100 XP). on a rock bed, its masts and upper deck sheared off, its
B exposed belly crusted with barnacles and snails. At low

eek QUEEN i, tide, the hull is fully above the water. A gash on its star-
ee ae oe tia a board side makes an adequate doorway. Everything but

a the ship’s keel is submerged at high tide.
oe during a ee ees See ae wane Plundered by tortles shortly after it sank, the Dirty
of ne Grew were trapped in leaded caning. The tortles Dastard recently became the lair of a sea hag named
Se Rep Coe) OS aime Myldryd Urchinspine. The vile hag lurks in the boat’s

? dark interior, ready to devour anyone who drops in

Umberlee in a more flattering light than she deserves. hae edule cond feeorat Sui ay cones aiih
Eager to please the captain and her deity, the tortles half-eaten raw fish, seaweed, and broken shells. Hidden
ae after ee fee a palace for them on under the sand and detritus are two giant crabs that
the mountainside overlooking the sea. obey the hag’s commands.

Of the Bitch Queen, little remains except its bowsprit ae eee hag brought with her an old, unlocked
and wooden figurehead, which is carved in the likeness sea chest containing her possessions. The chest lies
se ce, oe ead See aoe buried under sand and rocks. Characters who spend at

‘ an : : least 15 minutes searching the hag’s lair uncover the
RR eee citer cl tien adel ation? rotting chest with a successful DC 15 Wisdom (Percep-
9 tion) check. The check is made with disadvantage if the
tide, the bowsprit and half of the figurehead are visible, pa ‘uanilgeneice, e
ee a es Myldryd’s chest contains three trinkets (determined

i : sai F 3 randomly by rolling on the Trinkets table in chapter 5
a a eas eee ee of the Player's Handbook), 200 cp, a comb made out of

i >P). i 0 i whalebone (5 sp), and a stuffed parrot with a carnelian
underwater to find it, but it glitters in the light and is gemstone (50 gp) hidden inside it. A secret compartment
easily spotted. See handout D for an illustration of the in the chest’s lid can be found and opened with a suc-
holy symbol. cessful DC 16 Wisdom (Perception) check; it contains a
CARCERIUS medallion of thoughts.

The caravel Carcerius was transporting slaves around SEA MARE
Chult when it was caught in a storm seventy-five years The Sea Mare was a merchant ship that fell prey to pi-
ae ee eae ee oe aed slaves rates twenty-four years ago. After the pirates killed the
CRETE CHOS his en the ship finally slammed against ship’s crew and looted the hold, they tried to set the ship
ae age Bde ee anasd oe ablaze before abandoning it. A rainstorm extinguished
ae ee : r the flames before they could do much damage, but
ee atecd rit ae cadet ac ae strong winds blew the derelict vessel to its doom. Of all
i ’ : the wrecked ships found at High Horn, the Sea Mare is
half-exposed at low tide. Scavengers have picked clean the one farthest from shore, nestled in a hole and lodged
the wreck, but one ky still find rusty manacles bolted to against a coral reef. It’s mostly intact but lies completely
rotten beams alongside skeletal remains. underwater at high tide. Even at low tide, only the
DAwN AVENCER battered remains of the crow’s nest can be seen above
The captain of the Dawn Avenger was an aasimar cleric ee tried numerous times to plunder the
of Lathander. A little over a year ago, she came to the wreck, to no avail. With her dyin heat ie shintaeom
south shores of Chult with a charter to hunt pirates and Nea i ye, , psn
neteadiran her chisiacrond. Thicecloude olemoke tain pledged her soul to Orcus and was transformed into
from the volcanoes to the north, which hampered visibil- — ee aS wee ciara ana aaa
ity, were to blame. Seven survivors including the captain ee as ee, g
madet to the Snout, but they didnitstay long. They used Within the flooded hold, amid skeletons picked clean
salvaged rowboats to cross the northern strait, landed Benen the eh zy find irtighi P
on the mainland, and disappeared into the wilds of mushy the & gractets can nd an aiden stone sah
Chait No toes on ee eee ea Oi ee cophagus carved in the likeness of a demon with folded
ae eae het beeen wings. The sarcophagus weighs 2,000 pounds, and its
ie Daven Avenber brake tn half. Te ate eeetioe eae lid has an arcane lock spell cast on it. Opening the sar-
dragged out to sea by the current, but its forward sec- copbagus peduites aknock spell nes succese De oe
tion is lodged between rocks, canted to one side with its py apmiraad a Hy eee os eg
broken mast pointing south. The wreckage is entirely ais if ae pres? See Na a a a ia ae 4 Ke
visible at low tide, and the starboard half becomes sub- Rm Pe acne a GE eee
ere ede Thetortios h icked it cl stoppered bronze scroll tube rests at its feet, and a staff
aa a ie ae 1 ee 8 nave Dieser eee fashioned from a single branch of pale white wood (see
ee Oe Oe “Treasure” below) lies beside it.
THE TORTLE PACKAGE
19

=== PAGE 20 ===
The scroll tube contains a dry sheet of parchment recall that each of other mephits disappeared during
bearing the following message in Abyssal: “Orcus, a volcanic eruption, as ash and embers were falling
claim your prize! The secrets of lichdom remain yours, from the sky.
but my deeds and magic will live on, as will my soul in A legend lore spell reveals that all three mud pits are
the Abyss.” portals to the Elemental Plane of Earth and that a spe-

Treasure. The top of the archmage’s staff is shaped cial “gate key” is needed to unlock them from this side.
like a demon’s claw. The staff is not magical, but it radi- The gate key is any open flame. (The flame and the mud
ates a false aura of conjuration magic when studied un- pit symbolize the coming together of the four elements:
der a detect magic spell or similar magic. Casting dispel earth and water in the mud, fire and air in the flame.)
magic on the staff removes the false aura. The staff is Whenever an open flame is burning within 10 feet of a
worth 25 gp and can be used as an arcane focus. mud pit, the pit becomes a portal linked to a similar but

larger mud pit on the Elemental Plane of Earth. At such
VIRAGO times, any creature that fully submerges itself in one pit
The Virago was a merchant vessel out of Zazesspur. emerges in the other. An open flame is not needed to
Thirty-odd years ago, it ran afoul of pirates and was travel from one of the mud pits on the Elemental Plane
chased around the Chultan peninsula. The Virago would of Earth to its corresponding mud pit on the island.
have escaped had it not sailed into a pyroclastic ash
cloud and caught fire. The burning ship drifted for days Mop Pit EFFecT
before the current bore it to High Horn. There it sank. Any creature that bathes in a mud pit for at least 1 hour
The burnt nub that was once the mast is the only part of gains 1d10 temporary hit points. Mud removed from a
the ship visible at high tide; at low tide, the scorched top pit loses this property.
deck of the Virago is above water; the rotted-out lower
deck and keel are buried deep in the sand below. Noth- SHRINE OF FANGS J .. 2a
ing of value can be salvaged from this wreck. Nested at the foot of a mountain is an ancient yuan-ti

shrine dedicated to Merrshaulk. Yuan-ti abominations
Mup Pits OF FLORRBO once offered sacrifices here, hoping to wake their slum-
In the heart of the island’s jungle are three pools of mud bering deity or gain flickers of divine insight.
heated by geothermal vents. Each pool is within sight
of the other two and is 5 feet deep, 50 feet wide, and _ . .
roughly circular. (The pools shown on map 1 are not to Near the base of the mountain is a giant carving of a
scale.) A detect magic spell reveals a faint aura of abjura- snake's head, its forked tongue forming a ten-foot-wide,
tion magic around each pool. twenty-foot-high stone ramp. Stone fangs descend from

The tortles of the island like to bathe and relax in the the roof of the serpent’s mouth, which forms a can-
mud pools for hours at a time, singing and bellowing to opy over a dark, ten-foot-wide tunnel leading into the
pass the time. A winding foot trail connects the mud pits :
to the tortle fort of Ahoyhoy. mountain:

The “lord” of the mud pits is Florrb, a mud mephit
with 1d10 temporary hit points (which he gained by The tunnel at the back of the serpent’s head is 200 feet
swimming in the mud pits). The mephit and the tortles long and corkscrews gently down into the mountain,
share a common language (Aquan). Through words and ending before an unlit oval chamber. Characters who
gestures, Florrb urges visitors to bathe in the mud and have a light source or can see in the dark can discern
enjoy themselves. It demands no payment but insists on thetroom's features!
joining those who bathe. Florrb likes being in its natural
element, but the longer the mephit remains in the mud,
the more dour it becomes. A successful DC 10 Wisdom The tunnel ends at a domed oval room thirty feet deep,
(Insight) check reveals that the mud mephit seems to be twenty feet wide, and twenty feet high. The walls are
waiting for something to happen. Florrb doesn’t want carved with frescoes depicting swarms of snakes. At the
others to know what 5 really going on and reveals the far end of the room is a cracked, bowl-shaped altar, three
cause of its anxiety only if magically compelled to do so. . — ‘ .

feet tall and six feet in diameter, caked with dried blood.
FLORRB’S PROBLEM Set into the base of the bowl is an empty niche, and
When the mud pits formed a hundred years ago, Florrb hanging from the ceiling above the altar is a bloodstained
and two other mud mephits were transported into them iron hook at the end of a rusty chain.
from the Elemental Plane of Earth. The other two
mephits found a way to get back to their home plane,
but Florrb was left behind. It wants to return home but A search of the wall frescoes reveals that the snakes’
doesn’t know how. The other mephits were swimming eye sockets once held precious gemstones. Xorn living
in the mud pits when they disappeared. In the years in the mountain plucked out and ate all the gems, leav-
since, other creatures have disappeared while bathing ing behind empty, faceted indentations.
in the mud pits, but Florrb has yet to figure out the Yuan-ti liked to impale their sacrifices on the hook
trick to activating them. With a successful DC 15 Cha- above the altar. The victims’ blood would pool in the al-
risma (Persuasion) check, a character can help Florrb tar’s stone bowl, and the yuan-ti would wash themselves

5 THE TORTLE PACKAGE

=== PAGE 21 ===
in the blood while calling Merrshaulk’s name, hoping to uy
rouse the god from his slumber. . . a,
G
TALKING SNAKES — C .) «a n_s
Lurking behind the altar are two awakened poisonous ae . - ho Yea \t*
snakes named Ssura and Y’zleth (pronounced SOO-rah* 4 x g .
and EEZ-leth). They slither out of hiding to confront J + \ —% . . B
anyone who approaches within 5 feet of the altar. Each ~~ ? hw - p 1
awakened snake is unaligned, has an Intelligence score g _— = fy" de Aq % 3
of 10, and speaks Common. The snakes claim to have , < se X “=
useful information to share if the characters are willing f a aa’ Ce =
to complete a quest for them. = . Y 0 a e we wS 2 ya
Six months ago, a creature with a boulder-like shell | N fe Ys Nn irr Ps “ y
(a geonid) entered the shrine and stole an icon of Merr- y = \ _ aaa an Vy ris . »
shaulk. The icon is a serpent figurine carved from obsid- ji fi x » Ne ie , <a
ian. Ssura and Y’zleth want it found and returned to the ave ed ey ~
niche in the base of the altar. The thief and its kind live = — Me, ae
in caves that riddle the mountains (see “Geonid Caves,” ES \ 2 ww q & wan
page 18). The snakes warn the characters that they } 4 ‘ ass - ry
might need to search several caves to find the figurine. . § RG ha A :
As servants of Merrshaulk, Ssura and Y’zleth are = —_ XS
opposed to other yuan-ti deities. In particular, they seek ——,
to thwart the machinations of yuan-ti that are devoted —
to Dendar the Night Serpent. If the characters complete ~~ 7
the quest, Ssura and Y’zleth reveal the following infor-
mation as their reward: =
+ Alocked gate beneath the Peaks of Flame leads to . ¥ J
the realm of an apocalyptic god known as Dendar the After securing a high Vantage (alsin decapus hangs
Night Serpent. If the Night Serpent emerges, she will by one tentacle and attacks with the other nine. On the
devour the world. Her yuan-ti followers are searching ground, a decapus is slower and less dangerous: It must
for a relic called the Black Opal Crown, which is said WSs StS Gitte SUo st uel AG nals,
z , leaving five tentacles with which it can attack and de-
to have the power to open the gate to Dendar’s realm. fend itself
+ For ages, a mysterious god named Ubtao stood watch _
in Chult and built mazes to prevent Dendar’s worship-
ers from finding and releasing her. Ubtao has since DECAPUS :
withdrawn from the world, leaving no one to guard LENCE) Nat sae
against Dendar’s release. = as, cae. cy ob
+ Ras Nsi, one of Ubtao’s fallen champions, has joined picaerc ee he
forces with the yuan-ti and become one of them. Ras Speed 15 ft, climb 30 ft.
Nsi and his fellow yuan-ti have built a temple under
the ruined city of Omu, west of the Peaks of Flame. STR DEX CON INT wis CHA
+ One of Ras Nsi’s greatest enemies is a naga named 15 (+2) 14(+2) 14 (42) 4(-3) 10(+0) 7 (-2)
Saja N’baza. The naga dwells in a fallen kingdom EE eee
called Orolunga. Neither Ssura nor Y’zleth knows how Skills Athletics +4, Perception +2, Stealth +4
to get there. Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 12
5 : Languages —
Ssura and Y’zleth learned everything they know from Challenge 4 (1,100 XP)
yuan-ti visitors to the shrine. They might know other
facts as well, at your discretion. The awakened snakes
won't leave the shrine willingly, and they attack anyone ACTIONS
who tries to capture or kill them. Multiattack. The decapus makes two attacks: one with its bite
NEw MONSTERS and one with its tentacles.
. ' Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature
Among the Snout of Omgar’s many inhabitants are the grappled by the decapus. Hit: 7 (2d4 + 2) piercing damage.
following creatures.
Tentacles. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 10 ft., one
DECAPUS target. Hit: 24 (9d4 + 2) bludgeoning damage, or 14 (5d4 +
Mi. i, . = =... 2) bludgeoning damage if the decapus is grappling a creature
Decapuses are Carn OreUs, solitary hunters that swing ee in laa a if the fee is i oe ae or floor.
through trees, scooping up prey with their 10-foot-ong, The target is also grappled (escape DC 14) unless the decapus
suckered tentacles. Decapuses also use their tentacles is already grappling a creature. Until this grapple ends, the tar-
to climb walls and ceilings. get is restrained.
Ee
THE TORTLE PACKAGE =

=== PAGE 22 ===
e - >. "
a fa as . a Y rr, EZ
“ing ¥ 5 , a rs ‘on
y =? = Ey < =
Ay << * iv@ yy ¥
a ‘ —¢ : 4 =
J ( 4
" t
“, Fa % \ ~ >s F,
a oN | \e ape. $i

\ ) me
eS a) Oe
5 —— ——— —.

Marine Decapus. A marine decapus is similar to its min, as well as on cave lichen and moss. Geonids like
land-dwelling cousin, except that it gains a swimming to collect coins and gemstones, and they rarely confront
speed of 30 feet and can breathe only underwater. creatures larger than themselves except to rob them or

scare them away.
GEONID Stone Tell. Geonids can attune to stone in a way that
Mina ee en ee lets them discern what other creatures have been in the
Also known as rocklings and rock hermits, geonids are A AL
z z eae area recently. Geonids use this ability to track prey and
small, intelligent cave dwellers that originated on the i
ae to determine whether other creatures have trespassed
Elemental Plane of Earth. A geonid’s arms and legs : a < i E os A
es . in their territory. The information gleaned is imprecise
come out of a small opening in the bottom of its shell. a Hep A te
‘ an en and doesn’t include the specific identities of such crea-
A geonid can draw its limbs into its shell and close the tures or the precise times when they passed nearb
opening. When it does so, the creature looks like a small P yP Me
boulder. In this state, the geonid can't see and relies on T
; OPI
its tremorsense to detect other creatures nearby. Paes
- ¥ ! Small undead, chaotic evil

Dark Lairs. Geonids live in natural tunnels and caves. A

They feed primarily on lizards, rats, slugs, and other ver- Armor Class 13 (natural)
—E—— Cit Points 13 (3d6 + 3)

GEONID Speed 30 ft.

Small elemental, neutral nN

er STR DEX CON INT Wis CHA

Armor Class 17 (natural) ees C20 12 (41), 6 (2), 10(40) 9 513)

Hit Points 26 (4d6 + 12) ee EES

Speed 30 ft. Damage Resistances bludgeoning

1 Damage Immunities poison

STR DEX CON INT Wis CHA Condition Immunities poisoned

12 (+1) = 10(+0) + 16(+3) 9(-1) 14(42) 11 (+0) Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 10
ee Languages understands the languages it knew in life but can’t
Skills Perception +4, Stealth +2 speak
Senses darkvision 60 ft., tremorsense 30 ft., Challenge 1/2 (100 XP)

passive Perception 14 ———————
Languages Terran Turn Resistance. The topi has advantage on saving throws
Challenge 1/4 (50 XP) against any effect that turns undead.
ee
Boulder Guise. While fully withdrawn into its shell, the geonid Wile pereeee fdamazs Cae toe ae told ee
can’t see and is indistinguishable from a small boulder. Rigiushimaketa Constitution saving | row WANG PIES eed e

damage taken, unless the damage is radiant or from a critical
ACTIONS hit. On a success, the topi drops to 1 hit point instead.
< Club. a een Attack: a to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. ACTIONS

Hit: 3 (1d4+1 i ‘ poe Sr, Cee Se eS

fea (Lge 7) Plucgeoning amags Venomous Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft.,
Stone Tell. The geonid touches a stone object or surface and one target. Hit: 4 (1d4 + 2) slashing damage plus 2 (1d4) poi-
knows what types of creatures have been within 10 feet of that son damage, and the target must succeed on a DC 11 Consti-
stone in the past 24 hours. The geonid can also determine the tution saving throw or be poisoned until the end of the target’s
number of creatures of each type, but not their identities. next turn.

—————SE eS SSS ee ea a
THE TORTLE PACKAGE
22

=== PAGE 23 ===
Topi
. 7. A ce i Although their claws are quite sharp, tortles prefer to
Topis are similar to zombies. Before a topi is animated, 4
: : Si defend themselves and hunt using weapons they manu-
its corpse is shrunk until it stands only 2 feet tall, and its i
‘ i facture for themselves. They prefer simple melee weap-
heart is cut out and replaced with a leather bag that con-
; 5 z A . ons and crossbows.
tains a live poisonous snake. The snake requires neither
air nor sustenance, and it magically renders the topi’s
claws venomous. When a topi dies, the snake inside it Gi RE DITS
dies too. The process of creating a topi is known only to Designer: Christopher Perkins
a handful of evil priests and necromancers. Developer and Managing Editor: Jeremy Crawford
Topis are more difficult to turn than ordinary zom- Editor: Kim Mohan
bi d thei bodi ke th instant t Illustrators: Richard Whitters, Shawn Wood
ies, and their spongy bodies make them resistant to iGraphicibesieners ErniiTani
bludgeoning. Cartographer: Will Doyle
Undead Traits. A topi doesn’t require air, food,
drink, or sleep. Creature Catalog, a D&D game accessory published in 1986 by TSR,
Inc., provided inspiration and text for this supplement.
TORTLES DUNGEONS & DRAGONS, D&D, Wizards of the Coast, Forgotten Realms, the dragon
a A A : ampersand, Player's Handbook, Monster Manual, Dungeon Master's Guide, The Tortle
Tortles are omnivorous, turtle-like humanoids with Package, Tomb of Annihilation, all other Wizards of the Coast product names, and
leathery skin and bulky shells that cover most of their their respective logos are trademarks of Wizards of the Coast in the USA and other
bodies. An adult tortle stands about 6 feet tall and countries. All characters and their distinctive likenesses are property of Wizards of
i the Coast. This material is protected under the copyright laws of the United States of
weighs between 450 and 500 pounds. Males and fe- ‘America. Any reproduction or unauthorized use of the material or artwork contained
males are nearly identical in size and appearance. They herein is prohibited without the express written permission of Wizards of the Coast.
don’t wear clothing other than belts and harnesses for i en
carrying tools and supplies. TORTLE DRUID
Natural Defenses. A tortle can retreat into its shell for Medium humanoid (tortle), lawful neutral
added protection. While fully withdrawn inside its shell, —=
a tortle can’t do much other than hide. Armor Class 17 (natural)
es == Hit Points 33 (6¢8 + 6)
Speed 30 ft.
TORTLE P
Medium humanoid (tortle), lawful good STR DEX CON INT wis CHA
ee
Armor Class 17 (natural) 14 (+2) 10(+0) 12(+1) 11 (40) 15 (+2) 12 (41)
Hit Points 22 (4d8 + 4)
s Letras 22 ( +4) Skills Animal Handling +4, Nature +2, Survival +4
peed 30 ft. : “1
Senses passive Perception 12
ee
Li A C
STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA eee (50%)
15 (42) 10(+0) 12(1) (0) 1341) 121) e'
————Eo EE
eee F
Skills Athletics +4, Survival +3 Hold Breath. The tortle can hold its breath for 1 hour.
Senses passive Perception 11 Spellcasting. The tortle is a 4th-level spellcaster. Its spellcast-
Languages Aquan, Common ing ability is Wisdom (spell save DC 12, +4 to hit with spell
Challenge 1/4 (50 XP) attacks). It has the following druid spells prepared:
ee
Hold Breath. The tortle can hold its breath for 1 hour. Cantrips (at will): druidcraft, guidance, produce flame
Ist level (4 slots): animal friendship, cure wounds, speak with
ACTIONS animals, thunderwave
se oe, To ee a Ll 2nd level (3 slots): darkvision, hold person
Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.
Hit: 4 (1d4 + 2) slashing damage. ACTIONS
Quarterstaff. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.
target. Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) bludgeoning damage, or 6 (1d8 + 2) Hit: 4 (1d4 + 2) slashing damage.
blud ing d h d with two hands.
Macao a ee i i a le Quarterstaff. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one
Light Crossbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +2 to hit, range 80/320 target. Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) bludgeoning damage, or 6 (1d8 + 2)
ft., one target. Hit: 4 (1d8) piercing damage. bludgeoning damage when used with two hands.
Shell Defense. The tortle withdraws into its shell. Until it Shell Defense. The tortle withdraws into its shell. Until it
emerges, it gains a +4 bonus to AC and has advantage on emerges, it gains a +4 bonus to AC and has advantage on
Strength and Constitution saving throws. While in its shell, the Strength and Constitution saving throws. While in its shell, the
tortle is prone, its speed is 0 and can’t increase, it has disad- tortle is prone, its speed is 0 and can’t increase, it has disad-
vantage on Dexterity saving throws, it can’t take reactions, and vantage on Dexterity saving throws, it can’t take reactions, and
the only action it can take is a bonus action to emerge. the only action it can take is a bonus action to emerge.
———SS—————— Kz ~*~zz—&~—E—K=~—A/CZc<=_{{&{&«_Kx<Kx-x<—qL~”~x[&E{ =
THE TORTLE PACKAGE
23

=== PAGE 24 ===
Hanpbout A: EEYAL =
—
Geyal's the wame. I’ve traveled from the
Swout of Omgar to Fort Beluartan ana wy
Rwow the hazards of Chult well. I’ve seew ; A“o
many astounding sights and visited i
wondrous places in my travels. | carry my YPM ‘a
own gear, have all the necessary tools for - i. ; '
survival, ana Leave nothing to chance. | — ; .
don't believe in taking unnecessary risks. 17 ae / 2
My fee ts 5 gold pieces per day. | will Lien ~ way? f g
also accept aw up-front, non-refundable el iV _ 44 Bo
payment of 40 gold pieces for a tenday. } 5
( strongly recommend that you purchase } y, &
a charter of exploration at Fort Beluarian : .
before heading into the jungle. Fifty gold Lt ff :
pleces is a small price to pay to keep the ' ceva 2
Flaming Fist off your backs. =
2
3
€
HANbDouT B: KwILGoK S
; i" &
Well met, strangers! 'm Kwilgok—once , J
a dinosaur racer, wow the best guide a : a
in Port Nyanzaru. I’ve traveled up the Ee 8
River Soshenstar to the Aldant Basin } fe =
and back. I’ve visited so many corners Ss y :
of Chult and can tell you: there’s wo TO g
Lana more beautiful and dangerous. ye j 2
—* | ¥ =
This is my ankylosaurus, Deadly Ne ee 7 8
Treasure. Quite a prize, isw’t she? hte A
Follows me everlywhere. We cost 6 gold ge 7 & y
pleces a day, with payment for 30 days
up front. very expensive, yes, but worth A ! Y
it, | promise you. May the sun and the 4! | |
moon always watch over you. oy | f a
24 THE TORTLE PACKAGE an

=== PAGE 25 ===
HaNpDoutT C: MupGRAw a

Great Ubtao has Led you to me, | see. | am

Mudgraw, a Legena in these parts. what |

lack tw youth, | make up for with experience.

ve Led many expeditions into the evil heart

of Chult awa seen things that would make

you quiver iw your shell.
fo} A deadly maze awaits us, brave ones.
2 With ubtao’s blessing, | shall guide you
s safely through it. That’s what | do best! |
a. travel Light and wear my home on my back.
% \ charge 5 gold pieces a day, but there are
Ba cireumstances under which | might waive
g my fee. Sometimes the journey through
5 life's maze ts reward enough! uuneden
pol
a]
3
* HaAnpbouT D: Hoty SYMBOL OF UMBERLEE
a
8
=
a ff
3 he"
o iy
é Veg
z jog
a f
3 Ley
5 Ae J
5 a

biti. WON
|
\
THE TORTLE PACKAGE 25
om | re

=== PAGE 26 ===
_SNOUT.OF OMGAR Papeete
5 AS =) : MG EAE 5 See, :
> ae 5) \ Ne Mii) x 5S, f
>. USS NG) r ee a / = =f
tot a7 A y } \ y. Z
1 AY Bs a f A J \ J sy
Vs vs £s > 7 x f pops
POCORN OB ee EY Lh ES SN ys ‘
Vas Si, RK : S* he i
bse) ca, rs A \ 4 C. GP rs
SS = GIRS = ares. x AL
= ‘ena? 4 SS PSA >. =
3 ee: iy Bx) = 3
> f a, sy =
= SOS Ses aN 5
Lf ete S Z f
: STAY? TANS AN ST «
= \ x yc }
; \ Do ie 3 i =
z / Ci eet, =
= : } hu 6 ~ z
$ :
Hy ARUMLEU ALLEL COPEL RLPR EEN OTLEY (eer nce eee eve pee, (tier ace ere erinets [r/ttteres eeutnerees/creraeeenenrace/,{(fatimevmmeieress¥is if
©2017 Wizards of the Coast LLC. Permission is granted to distribute this page for home game use.

=== PAGE 27 ===
a
io Amar aR aK God AAA! ORATRENRRA AL a
3 TS gece HARTANGLETEEIIFEA/Y [TRURAYTERADD ERI PPO RRND “4
DRS Sea 20 UCN SNT ae Diemer | 6 one Re a
PERIL SPF EY
i es x tN, N89 2) OR
apa = s ° ON TS NS C4 i
S| ALD REO, D4 SNe: ‘ bald x o . a.
AB NS CLP Lp. eRe
¢ of & & Bee NAR Se Ye Se
q emo, , + eh, De ROS BNA ree =
: 4 ROA GAR EIN «oT 2 ON 00 Os
z Ne OES Wi oO) ee VParerte.:
2 of ee BYE ORs 5
Fy gE a sts ‘Se ees ay = Cy ee 2
FF ee ike 4 |
3 El ey ies 5 eae Near: anes. Uk =
i PRE nt pete BEN \ 4 ey bare OC |
« ONS” >) SS SS : ee Wars taal on! ne |
3 6 Se MT \R RS
@ nS a — 8) eae Q Bat a e v SN eee ‘+A ve — ] = |
3 jj hey ky a BN. ‘ ix SAN Sey )
a ; Bao OOS Ls ‘ANY Ny? TEN pee < |
4 [SS 4K \ Bh); “Sec _ \) \
= = .. rd! ae A I |
cy ' ae iss me NX AX a.
: Beer p® ge M2) EQUI
fe} : ‘eS Ne Re G RS } by War é Xx
2 v Cova } = ie Se <2
5 Xy uae a oe ~~ CED a t] »} d
“9 Ie eo CNN I OTS r. << ——
Wiel ae.’ Sate woe Sg
2 aa” Ps? = a
2 list Diet) Tine viet rote ro ep Te Ce or)
=

=== PAGE 28 ===
pgm STL DN ee yeTe LED NLL ESTA TaMIAN D. oS ON ee oD Tne ro Me
ee DaxcwaRl Si
i. aaee C Ao ey ee i
2 ee P Ns SEB =
e wae j AN PS. : =
Ean (ey) Avs bes . @aes z
ie OS. pe Sy RS A
2 4) FS hc | , Fs
SL ag Pe wee: te 3 AAS fe =
ile” "ae © Reade a “> CS Ga
xe, mos P| e : —____ OR . Ve? G =
4 iF e p— Banca e af ner \ Ze f xa é
WY Bene oo eee we
F : “idle Sl x att rr ~ Ons: be y) 4 ;
SE! : ; ; Gil ae 3
patel OS spatter ey , = =
oy Pehl eerie Fs tN 4 se, if ap =
ae 3 REE a SEO ae | it. 4 :
7 aa =! r evs:
Ea ae (a SS
Te Ne “2 CAPR eran e EIU CETLE (REPW MOT emeatce MMOL, LNT’, (fermen ey ae ¢)
©2017 Wizards of the Coast LLC. Permission is granted to distribute this page for home game use.

