--- PAGE 1 ---
Fey Courts
7

--- PAGE 2 ---
CREDITS
Design: Wolfgang Baur, Shawn Merwin , Jon Sawatsky, Troy E. Taylor
Development & Editing: Scott Gable
Art Director & Graphic Design: Marc Radle
Cover Art: Karl Waller
Interior Art: Marc Radle, Addison Rankin, Karl Waller
Publisher: Wolfgang Baur
Kobold Press, Midgard, Open Design, and their associated logos are trademarks of Open Design.
Product Identity: The following items are hereby identified as Product Identity, as defined in the Open Game License 
version 1.0a, Section 1(e), and are not Open Content: All trademarks, registered trademarks, proper names (characters, 
place names, new deities, etc.), dialogue, plots, story elements, locations, characters, artwork, sidebars, and trade dress. 
(Elements that have previously been designated as Open Game Content are not included in this declaration.)
Open Game Content:  The Open content in this book includes the knight of the deluge, extinguished, and variant undine 
monster stats. 
No other portion of this work may be reproduced in any form without permission.
© 2018 Open Design
www.koboldpress.com
TABLE OF CONTENTS
“Owls, Roses, and Thorns: Lost Courts of the Elves” by Wolfgang Baur ...............................2
“Recollections of the River Court” by Jon Sawatsky...................................................................6
“River Court Rogue’s Gallery” by Shawn Merwin.....................................................................14
“Guardians of the Trifles” by Troy E. Taylor..............................................................................18
“Variant Undine” by Shawn Merwin...........................................................................................24
TM

--- PAGE 3 ---
2
OWLS, ROSES, AND THORNS: 
LOST COURTS OF THE ELVES
By Wolfgang Baur 
Summer Lands and in hidden places on the 
branches of Yggdrasil, aloft in airy realms, or 
in other hidden places of Midgard far from 
the Seven Cities and Dornig.
COURT OF OWLS (ARBONESSE)
For a long time, the Court of Owls was 
the primary site of elvish pilgrimage for 
druids and followers of the old ways as well 
as worshippers of the forested, shadowed 
branches of the elvish pantheon: Holda, 
Yarila and Porevit, and Sarastra. Its founder 
was the archdruid Illem Quinor, a pious and 
stern elf who founded the Circle of Owls and 
whose adherents served the elvish empire 
throughout their territories as shapeshifting, 
keen-eyed scouts and (sometimes) 
saboteurs. While most visitors to the Court 
of Owls were pilgrims and priests, hidden 
among those masses were always a few 
spies bringing their reports to the Roost, 
the small but ornately gilded chamber 
where the archdruid listened, pondered, 
and sent further missives to the emperor 
or imperatrix on matters that directly 
concerned the pantheon or the empire. 
When the elves retreated to the Summer 
Lands and the empire faded away, the 
library of the Court of Owls was burned to 
the ground. Most histories say the fire was 
ordered by Quinor himself, for its libraries 
contained far too many secrets best kept 
away from grasping dwarves and humans. 
Others claim that a vindictive gnomish 
E
lvish courts have always been strange 
places—to mortals anyway. They are 
somewhat like royal courts among humans, 
but because of elvish and fey longevity, 
the fey courts are far more dominated 
by single figures and for much longer 
periods, and these factors invariably leave 
their mark across centuries, setting down 
quirks, customs, traditions, and arcane 
and court law. Each founder’s interests 
often become enshrined in the magic, 
architecture, fashions, and even speech of 
the courts, most having their own preferred 
courtly dialect: the Strigian Elvish dialect 
of the Court of Owls used loan words from 
Druidish scriptures and ritual while the Rosy 
Elvish dialect of the Rose Court was known 
for complex speech and obligatory rhyme, 
especially in forms of address. 
The members of a fey court consist of 
vassals, servants, and family of elvish nobles, 
invariably major royalty such as dukes, 
princesses, kings and queens, emperors and 
imperatrixes—in a few cases, without the 
title but with all the influence. Each court 
revolves around its founders as the moon 
chases the sun. The most balanced tend to be 
founded married couples but sometimes by 
single rulers of great influence or charm. 
Here are three courts from the list of the 
famous courts of the Valeran Empire at its 
height. There were more than two dozen 
courts known over the imperial years, 
and many others still remain active in the

--- PAGE 4 ---
3
servant, bitter at the command to depart and 
unwilling to leave human and elfmarked 
friends behind, set the blaze. Many volumes 
are said to have been carried off during the 
fire by gnomes and other servants, and a few 
were found later by scavengers surprised to 
note their pages were inviolate—legible and 
whole—despite a thick coating of ash on 
their covers. These “lost books of Quinor” 
are highly sought after as they remain one 
of the very few exemplars of elvish magic 
available to non-elves. Most are believed 
to have wound up in Bemmea or Maillon, 
though at least one necromantic volume is 
said to have been carried off by nightgaunts 
winging their way to the Scarlet Citadel. 
These books can all be authenticated by 
the presence of the Archdruid’s Seal, an 
inked design of an owl, holly leaves and 
branches, together with elvish runes spelling 
out “Eternally Watchful,” with the whole 
rendered as an arcane mark that resists 
erasure and tampering (in a few cases, a lead 
imprint of the seal attached by a ribbon—
these are older but also less secure methods 
of authenticating a lost book of Quinor).
What truly remains of the Court of Owls 
is a matter of some discussion. A few druids 
and pilgrims still visit in the summer months 
and refer to themselves as the New Court 
of Owls, but this is draping themselves in 
lost glories. Structurally, the fine wooden 
buildings are all fallen into decay, the stone 
foundations remain true but overgrown 
with moss and even cavelight moss, and 
some dark and hungry spirit inhabits the 
court’s groves and streams. Many visitors 
return missing a horse, ox, or dog, and a few 
complain that “lustful, beguiling music” can 
be heard from the famous court’s stream. 
This stream is the Noctuan Water, a fresh, 
babbling bit of a stream, rarely more than 
a foot deep in most places, which still runs 
from a hillside and then crosses mid-air 
over the fetid moat to the outer courtyards. 
In some places, the Noctuan Water is lifted 
by arcane means to flow into the kitchens 
and halls; in other places, it is cleansed by 
elemental magic. At its final stop, it flows 
into a large, still pool in the main courtyard, 
still lined with reeds and lilies, before 
disappearing underground. An undine or 
water spirit may still live in a cavern below.
COURT OF ROSES (ARBONESSE)
The Court of Roses was devoted to the 
young and the poor among the elves. It was 
a place of learning, courtship, carousing, 
famed for its poetry and its Silver Shrine 
of Baccolon as well as the Great Hall of the 
Crimson Queen Othaniel. She was both 
the wealthiest patroness of elvish arts and 
learning and (so whispers maintained) the 
most ruthless keeper of the empire’s records, 
genealogies, and arcane bloodlines—the 
foundation on which titles, peerage, 
inheritances, and fiefdoms rose and fell. 
Queen Othaniel’s public patronage of 
Baccolon was largely a boisterous, popular 
way to hide her devotion to Sarastra and 
her teaching of young elvish wizards, 
sorcerers, and other arcanists about high 
magic, shadow and illuminated rituals, and 
rites that strengthened ley lines, that built 
new shadow roads, and that even moved 
ley lines miles across the empire to thwart 
enemies or reward the emperor’s chosen. 
Her titles ran as Her Sanguine and Ethereal 
Majesty, Othaniel Qivaressa, the Red 
Queen of Baccolon, Countess of the Lower 
Arbonesse, Baroness of Steinhafen, Mistress 
of the Arcane Roads, and Keeper of the Key 
of Seven Stars, Beloved of the Poets and 
Immortal in Song. 
The Rose Court is now a place of ghosts, as 
well as dusty arcane workshops filled with 
animated oozes burning with cold light, and 
a few other horrors such as clockwork poets, 
animated undead cats with particularly fluffy 
and luminous fur, and rats of unseemly 
intelligence. Its famous stained-glass 
windows were all removed and conjured

--- PAGE 5 ---
4
away during the Retreat: tall vacant windows 
and at least two enormous round ones 
remain as the frames where enormous glass 
once filled the air with light and pleasing 
shadows. Smaller, stained-glass windows 
were said to have remained but have all been 
looted as well; a few have been set into new 
temples and taverns as far afield as Reywald 
and Salzbach.
Somewhere within its ruins are likely some 
arcane treasures, and (if some of the human 
histories are true) somewhere beneath 
the court should be the Crimson Queen’s 
dungeons and workshops. Several “true and 
authentic” maps of these workshops exist, 
though the two best known disagree with one 
another on such simple matters as where the 
entrance to the chambers is; most agree these 
maps are all dated long after the Retreat. 
Banshees, phantoms, and occasionally 
pilgrims of Sarastra’s darker traditions can be 
found in the buildings, though most of these 
are purely nocturnal visitors, so the merely 
curious are advised to visit by daylight when 
the ruins are at their best and the odds of 
a violent attack by undead or alchemical 
horrors are minimal.
One item of especial interest can still 
be found quite easily: the talking roses 
of the court still grow wild and rambling 
in what was once the famous Prickling 
Maze where young elves played and older, 
perhaps inebriated elves sought to question 
the foliage in pursuit of green wisdom 
or amusing anecdotes. The talking roses 
speak the Rosy dialect of Elvish and may be 
the last to do so; they are widely versed in 
weather lore, botany, and the distinct cries 
of any bird or animal inhabiting the ruins, 
but they are also quite melancholy still at 
having no sparkling courtiers to speak with. 
A few wilder legends claim that old blood 
rituals once turned the white roses red and 
summoned forth a dark goddess from the 
woods or that void pipes can still be heard 
in the Prickling Maze at dawn and dusk. 
Gardeners who have attempted to take 
a cutting or transplant from among the 
talking roses have, thus far, been prevented 
by children of the briar and other floral 
guardians. But such a bloom would surely 
bring a smile to the face of any of the elves 
who remember the Rose Court at its height.
GRIFFON COURT (MARGREVE)
By elvish noble standards, the Griffon Court 
was a backwater of little consequence: a 
summer camp to learn griffon riding, to 
hunt deer in the Margreve, to ponder a 
few of the mysteries of the deep forest, and 
perhaps to dally with the shadow fey if 
they showed themselves at all. 
The territory is surrounded 
by marshy woodlands and 
thickets of thorn and briar so 
ancient that they require axes 
to clear—most visitors come by 
ley roads or on griffon wing if they 
come at all. 
And there are still reasons to visit. For 
the elvish armies, the Griffon Court was an 
important breeding and nesting ground for 
two-headed eagles, hippogriffs, wyverns, 
and griffons, as well as (at one time) for 
occasional fey drakes or moon drakes given 
as gifts among the nobles. It was also a 
crucial training grounds for knights and 
captains, not the glamorous nobles but the 
well-trained leaders who made sure that 
elvish armies could handle any rebellion and 
expand their rule over patient centuries. So it 
was a martial court from the beginning, but it 
also retained pride in its messenger services, 
flying couriers and making deliveries by air 
from Thorn to Gennecka and to Liadmura 
and Velersh. 
And despite the retreat of the elves, it is 
still at least somewhat inhabited. Four elves, 
twenty elfmarked, and a scattering of gnomes 
and halflings keep the place in running order 
and maintain a stable of six to ten trained 
Margreve griffons at all times for the use

--- PAGE 6 ---
5
of the imperatrix on her rounds and hunts. 
Since her health has declined, these choice 
beasts are more often given to her various 
favorites at court, but they are still trained 
at the hunting lodge that was once home to 
several hundred of the empire’s brightest 
knights, young squires of the martial orders, 
and a famed school of rangers and archers. 
Rumor has it that some elements of the 
Griffon Court’s armor, weapons, and 
training methods remain available to 
worthy elves and elf-blooded humans, but 
on the whole, the court is not welcoming 
place. Built on a stony crag above much 
of the forest canopy and with three large 
clearings to handle training, flying, and a 
modest orchard and viticulture, it more 
resembles a woodland village than one of 
the esteemed homes of the elvish legions 
of old. Tunnels, armories, and barracks 
of the old Flying Fifth Legion (also called 
the Griffon Guard) are said to have been 
sealed off and are largely inaccessible to 
visitors. Only the court’s commander, the 
Griffon Knight-Commander Alluvar of 
Rothenheim, Marshall of the Margreve and 
at least honorary general of the 5th legion, 
is believed to know the command words 
and to hold the arcane keys to the tunnels 
of the Flying Fifth. His wife Xendra, his son 
Ollivary (or more correctly, Alluvar the 
Younger), and his squire, young Fillibera of 
Liadmura, round out the garrison.

--- PAGE 7 ---
6
RECOLLECTIONS OF 
THE RIVER COURT
by Jon Sawatsky 
THE FIVE SPIRES OF 
THE RIVER COURT
The spires of the court are simply stunning. 
They are surprisingly hard to see from the 
nearby forest, a fact I must attribute to the 
magic of the place. Though why his majesty 
would wish to hide these splendors is beyond 
me! Alabaster white with golden trim, they 
rise like majestic fingers pointing to the stars. 
Each is built upon some important edifice, 
and I’m told there are chambers at the 
tops—though no one would tell me what is 
kept there…
A Note on Architecture
The River Court is built both within the 
river Neurabon and on its saturated banks. 
The castle, with its towers and water gates, is 
built in the middle of the river, and a thick 
foam builds at the base of its walls where the 
swift water meets the stone. Entrance to the 
castle is made either through a gate facing 
upstream or via a heavily guarded walkway 
from shore.
Yes, it’s true! I have travelled far up the rivers that flow through the Arbonesse—all the way to 
the River Court. There I was taken on a tour of the place before being seated for dinner with 
the king himself, that secret keeper, Ulorian the First! Here, sit, I will recall my time there for 
you so that you might decide if such a trip is in your interest.. 
—Nenmaas Goodloaf (halfling of House Aunun)
T
he River Court is the last foothold of 
the elves in Midgard. Tucked away in 
the great forest of Arbonesse, the court’s 
population comprises a few elves, many 
elfmarked, halflings, and a growing number 
of aquatic humanoids of various types. It is 
this last contingent of the court that makes 
it unique among the kingdoms of Midgard, 
for nowhere else are the waterborne fey so 
welcome as in King Ulorian’s Court.
The farms around Ulorian’s castle are 
simple affairs and serve as home to most of 
the court’s halflings as well as a number of 
elfmarked. The fields are well irrigated, and 
it’s common for small aquatic fey to travel 
up the canals and make their homes in 
their banks—even assisting with the harvest 
when time.
Darker things also dwell in the court. 
Creatures whose natural abilities lie in 
the domain of subterfuge and spying. 
King Ulorian welcomes these creatures 
as subjects, and it’s through them that he 
maintains advantage over his enemies and 
allies alike.

--- PAGE 8 ---
7
The spires of the River Court are built 
near the castle. All of the spires, save for the 
Spire of Baccho, can be reached by water—
even the library in the Spire of Memory is 
partially submerged.
The interiors of the buildings of the 
River Court are designed to offer comfort 
to those aquatic fey who live there. Many 
chambers are partially submerged, and their 
walls drip with cool condensation. Despite 
being lavishly decorated with polished 
river stones, gilded archways, and beautiful 
hanging water plants (that bloom eternally 
in the presence of King Ulorian), the 
buildings of the River Court are cold and 
wet and uncomfortable to those not suited 
to the water.
Spire of Currents
The Spire of Currents is built upon the elves’ 
primary woodworking workshop. Though 
the crafters produce mundane goods such 
as furniture and tableware, the workshop 
is chiefly known for its production of river 
barges. The crafters are led by Uynitia 
Boughbender, an elfmarked woman whose 
arms were maimed in battle and replaced 
with magical wooden facsimiles that move 
at her command.
The workshop at the base of the spire 
opens onto the river where old and 
damaged barges are delivered and new ones 
set afloat. Despite the labor transpiring in 
the workshop, a meditative silence is all that 
can be heard, though occasionally songs or 
laughter drift from the gate.
The spire is accessible via the workshop, 
but its doors are locked and warded against 
simple magic. Only Uynitia has the key to 
the spire, which she keeps on a silver chain 
around her neck at all times. The spire 
reaches three hundred feet into the air and 
has a single windowless staircase that rises 
from the workshop to its peak.
The topmost chamber of the spire is a 
small room painted in gold. It has a round 
window that faces south and is framed in 
rough-cut pieces of wood from the forest. 
In the center of the room is the broken 
prow of the first riverboat built by the 
Court. Broken and splintered, the boat yet 
contains powerful elvish magic. Several 
simple pillows sit on the floor around the 
prow, and those who sit there are filled 
with visions depicting elvish wood crafting 
techniques. To be invited to sit with the 
broken prow is a high honor.
Spire of Memory
The River Court’s principal library is built 
near the castle and is commonly referred to 
as the Spire of Memory. It consists of three 
main chambers connected by short, highly 
decorated corridors. The chambers are well 
lit by beautiful and magical stained-glass 
windows whose animated scenes depict the 
history of the court. The library is managed 
by three elven scholars (Nilia, Sarion, and 
Fenn) who oversee a small staff of elfmarked 
and halfling workers.

--- PAGE 9 ---
8
The library has representatives who travel 
throughout Midgard searching for books 
to add to the spire’s impressive collection. 
These representatives are mostly elfmarked 
scholars accompanied by well-paid 
mercenaries. The scholars of the River Court 
are often found combing through old ruins 
in pursuit of lost knowledge.
The three chambers of the spire are heavily 
guarded, and access to the stairs leading to its 
top is restricted to the three head librarians. 
A spiraling staircase leads from one of the 
library’s chambers to the top of the spire. 
The spire rises two hundred feet, and the 
walls along this staircase are covered in elvish 
writing: poems, ballads, expressions—all 
written in the same steady silver script.
The topmost chamber of the Spire of 
Memories contains a simple bookshelf filled 
with the rarest and most magical tomes kept 
by the River Court. Only those who have 
earned the favor of the court may hope to 
open these rarest of books.
Spire of Unity
Though the River Court’s population is small 
(estimated around 3,800), it’s surprisingly 
varied. Elves, elfmarked, halflings, and all 
manner of fey (especially aquatic) all live 
together peacefully. Though the court’s 
reputation suggests it is the home of exiles 
and outsiders, those who dwell within its 
limits are far from hermits living lives of 
solitude. The Spire of Unity consists of a 
grand feast hall. Half the hall is submerged 
in the cold water of the river while the other 
half sits on sturdy stone. A wooden common 
table runs through the hall—one end dips 
into the water. Chairs made from curved 
driftwood line the tables.
For those subjects of the court who prefer 
their meals cooked, as opposed to raw and 
fresh from the river, a stone stove sits at the 
dry end of the hall. It is said that the bones 
from fish cooked on the stove regrow their 
flesh when cast in the river, so it is common 
to see piles of such bones in the watery 
portion of the hall after a large feast.
Spire of Baccho
This spire is built upon a large wine-storage 
vault dug deep under the riverbank’s wet, 
clay-filled soil. The vault has two dimly lit 
chambers connected by a short corridor 
and tasting room. Ornately carved wooden 
storage racks form aisles and line the 
walls of both chambers. One chamber is 
for wines that have aged up to sixty years 
while the other chamber is reserved for 
vintages bottled as far back as two hundred 
years. The entrance to the wine vault is 
heavily guarded due to the large amount of 
enchanted wine stored inside.
The spire is accessed via a spiraling 
staircase built atop the entrance to the 
vault. It rises for a hundred feet above the 
ground and is topped by a small chamber 
magically locked and warded. Inside the top 
chamber, which is windowless and kept cool 
by permanent spells, is a glass display case 
containing a few grapes from the very first 
harvest by the elves of the River Court. The 
grapes are said to be blessed by Baccho and 
possess powerful magic.
Spire of Charun
This tallest spire in the River Court is the 
Spire of Charun. It sits upon the temple of 
Charun, a large boat-shaped building made 
from dressed stone and finely carved wood. 
The temple resembles a river barge with 
its primary entrance in the aft section and 
the altar placed near the prow. Wooden 
benches, carved with depictions of the 
Boatman ushering the elves to and from 
the heavens, form rows along the length 
of the main chamber. Windows, shaped 
like ornate lanterns, line the walls allowing 
muted light into the space.
The spire is accessed behind the altar via a 
spiraling staircase lit with sacred lanterns. 
It rises two hundred feet above the temple

--- PAGE 10 ---
9
to a worshipping space reserved for special 
ceremonies. Few have been allowed to enter 
the top of the spire, and those who have do 
not speak of it. Rumors that it contains a 
portal capable of accessing every plane of 
existence are unsubstantiated. 
THE ALABASTER GATES
It was on my tour of the castle proper that I 
was allowed to see the twin gates said to offer 
direct passage to Elfheim itself! Though the 
gates appeared only to lead to the other side 
of the room when I spied them. Still, I could 
sense the magic in those snow-white frames 
as I was hurried on.
Last of the true elfroads in Midgard, the 
Alabaster Gates of the River Court allow 
accepted travelers to step from the middle 
world to the luminous land of the elves: 
Elfheim. The King of the River Court alone 
has the ability to activate the gates, which sit 
in well-guarded buildings inside the castle’s 
courtyard. Though the mode through which 
the gates are activated is a well-kept secret, 
many scholars suspect the king’s crown 
is the key; its observed properties suggest 
that the crown exists in both Midgard and 
Elfheim at the same time and that its magic 
is the source of some of the king’s more 
powerful abilities.
The gates themselves are made from purest 
white stone interwoven with pale wood set to 
give the appearance of water flowing upward 
from the ground. The gates are fifteen feet 
tall and ten feet wide, and emit a constant 
warmth—like stone heated in the sun.
THE WINERIES 
OF THE RIVER COURT
Of all the secrets revealed to me in my 
time in the River Court, it was the wineries 
that stroked my sense of wonder the most. 
Though I must admit, there is also something 
inexplicably dreadful about those strange 
groves whose ebon grapes grow on vines that 
strangle the trees.
The Neurabon river winds through the 
Arbonesse, feeding streams, lakes, and 
ponds along the way. The land along its 
banks is rich and fertile, and the members of 
the River Court have taken great advantage 
of this fact. The variety of grape grown 
under the dense canopy requires little 
sunlight; a trait which defies the natural 
world and is a product of the king’s magic. 
The vines of these plump grapes, whose 
midnight flesh is sweet and overwhelming, 
grow around the trees and shrubs of the 
forest; they wind tightly around their hosts, 
making deep impressions in the bark.
The grapes are harvested by halflings who 
climb here and there to collect the grapes. 
These workers pride themselves in the 
careful manner with which they pluck the 
grapes—rarely is one piece of fruit wasted.
The wine is produced in two sturdy stone 
and wood buildings built near the groves. 
As with all the structures of the River Court, 
the buildings are accessible by both land 
and water. Inside, the grapes are crushed 
and stomped by mischievous water spirits 
and small aquatic fey who dance and sing 
old songs together, washing themselves in 
the river when their appendages becomes 
too stained.
The River Court produces two wines. 
The one, which they export to Dornig 
and beyond, is strong and sweet and best 
drunk with a hearty meal. The other, 
which is bottled and stored in racks deep 
underneath the Neurabon, is enchanted 
with the king’s magic and is reserved for 
members of the court.
THE THEATRE 
OF DROWNED STARS
My eyes widened when I was escorted to the 
edge of a great whirlpool near the castle. 
The water of the Neurabon swirled and 
frothed, and I admit to terror as it was 
suggested I simply throw myself into the 
vortex. Not wanting to appear rude and

--- PAGE 11 ---
10
with uncertainty over the cleanliness of my 
drawers afterward, I leapt into the whirlpool. 
Against my expectations, I emerged in a stone 
and clay chamber under the river. The walls 
of the place were lit with beautiful glowing 
blooms, and I was led then into the Theatre of 
Drowned Stars where I had a delightful night.
Below the castle and accessed by a magical 
whirlpool on the banks of the river is the 
River Court’s amphitheater. Named for the 
magical blooms that illuminate the walls 
and ceiling of the theater, the Theater of 
Drowned Stars hosts weekly performances 
by a rotating cast of poets, actors, singers, 
and orators. 
The theater is built in the round and is 
oval shaped. Stone benches form rows 
around the central stage, which is made 
from enchanted clay. There is never a 
need for sets to be built for the theater’s 
performances as the clay can be molded, 
carved, and magically commanded to 
change its shape.
The principal master of ceremonies for 
these performances is a boloti (Tome of 
Beasts) named Prince Suss who travels on 
a magical wave of water that occasionally 
topples. Prince Suss is an impressive speaker 
and charming host who loves to cast fog 
cloud before making an appearance.
CELEBRITIES OF THE COURT
Enetha Senbloom, High Priest of Charun. 
Enetha (N elf female, 8th-level Storm 
Domain Cleric) is a tall, pale woman whose 
robe is made of undulating river plants. The 
cowl of her robe is made entirely of shaped, 
black water, which shadows her face and 
lends a trickling quality to her speech. The 
high priest spends most of her time in the 
Spire of Charun where she gives sermons 
and counsels the court’s membership. She 
travels the Neurabon on a riverboat made 
from the bones of those enemies of the 
court who drowned.
Gibbers Crane, Master of the Pluckers. 
Master Crane (NG halfling male scout), 
or “Gibbers” to those who know him, is a 
severe and hard-working halfling who leads 
the Pluckers—a union of halfling laborers 
responsible for harvesting the grapes from 
the wineries of the River Court. Gibbers 
wears patched overalls and a floppy, wide-
brimmed hat decorated with a single crane 
feather. His hands are permanently stained 
a dark purple color from a lifetime of 
plucking the magical grapes.
Halliath Moro, Marshal of the Knights 
of the Deluge. Marshal Moro (LE elf male 
knight) is the leader of the River Court’s 
small unit of elite king’s guards, the Knights 
of the Deluge. He is rarely more than twenty 
feet from the king and, thanks to Ulorian’s 
magic, has not slept is over seventy years. 
Moro is a devastating opponent whose 
armor is made entirely from hardened 
hydra scales. His helm is made from the 
skull of a particularly large hydra that he 
slew single-handedly when it threatened the 
spires. He wields a sentient glaive named 
Torrent with the power to control water and 
summon elemental guardians.
DINNER WITH KING ULORIAN
Though the feasting hall of the River Court 
is a cold and watery place where the walls 
themselves are made from the Neurabon 
and the guests are half-submerged, it is still 
a wondrous and oddly inviting place. Those 
glowing blooms which appear so often to light 
the dark places of the court lend a soft and 
admittedly maudlin ambience. The strange 
little spirits carrying plates of fish and cold 
soups are as filled with charm as they are 
razor-sharp teeth.
Being Seated. Guests are brought into the 
feasting hall under the river’s muddy banks 
through a dripping tunnel whose entrance 
is guarded by several water elementals. 
Before being seated at the king’s long, stone

--- PAGE 12 ---
11
table, guests who require it are targeted 
by spells to keep them dry despite being 
partially submerged in the cold water of the 
Neurabon.
Welcome. After taking their seat at the 
table, all the guests are welcomed by the 
River Court’s most famous orator, Prince 
Suss, who retells the founding of the court 
before enumerating the many victories of 
King Ulorian.
First Wine. Each guest is served wine from 
the River Court’s reserves. This magical 
drink allows all creatures to speak and 
understand the Aquan tongue.
The King is Seated. King Ulorian is 
announced and arrives to sit at the head of 
the table. The king prefers simple robes that 
drape and flow. The water that he passes 
through rises and forms small decorative 
shapes—the king’s wake is a reminder of his 
immense power and connection with the 
river in which he has built his castle.
Second Wine and Tales. The guests are 
served a second glass of enchanted wine 
that allows them to breathe underwater for 
the duration of the dinner. At the king’s 
request, Prince Suss recounts the stories of 
the court.
Dinner. Dinner, consisting mostly of 
steamed fish and root vegetables, is served 
first to the king and then to each guest. The 
servants at the meal are small water sprites 
who cart the plates to and from the table 
with a gentle rippling sound.
Cases and Accolades. After dinner, and 
provided King Ulorian is in the mood, 
guests may both plead their case for the 
king to intervene in some matter and praise 
the king for his actions and hospitality. 
The king rarely speaks during this part of 
dinner, reserving his judgement for later. 
Sometimes, if an accolade is exceptionally 
well articulated, the king may offer his favor 
in the form of a valuable curio or a promise 
to act.
The King Departs. When he decides 
dinner is over, the king rises and leaves. 
Occasionally, the king stops to acknowledge 
a guest whose company he has particularly 
enjoyed. Most of the time, the king simply 
exits, flanked by several guards.
The Guests Depart. The guests are ushered 
from the feasting hall. With the effects of 
the wine activated, the guests often end the 
evening with a swim in the shallows of the 
river. Each guest is given a smooth river 
stone with the sigil of the king engraved 
on one side. The stone is magical and can 
be squeezed to produce a half-gallon of 
drinkable water each day.
KNIGHTS OF THE DELUGE
Led by Marshal Moro, the Knights of the 
Deluge are a small unit of elite guards 
dedicated with protecting King Ulorian. 
The knights wear enchanted chainmail 
whose interlocking chains appear to flow 
like waves across their chests. The glaive 
is the official weapon of the knights who 
defend the court from the wild things of the 
Arbonesse and enact the will of their king 
in Midgard. Some of these knights have 
trained in elemental magic and can wield it 
to assure their victory in combat. These rare 
warriors call themselves Extinguishers.
KNIGHT OF THE DELUGE
Medium humanoid (elf), lawful neutral
Armor Class 16 (chainmail)
Hit Points 71 (13d8+13)
Speed 30 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
16 (+3)	 12 (+1)	 12 (+1)	 11 (+0)	 10 (+0)	 15 (+2)
Saving Throws Con +3
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 10
Languages Aquan, Elvish

--- PAGE 13 ---
12
Challenge 3 (700 XP)
Blessing of the Neurabon. The knight gains 
a swim speed equal to its speed and can 
breathe air or water whenever it is in the River 
Neurabon. 
Actions
Multiattack. The knight makes two glaive 
attacks.
Glaive. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 
10 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d10 + 3) slashing 
damage.
Surge (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). 
The knight is carried forward by a magical 
wave of water. It moves its speed in a straight 
line toward one target and makes a glaive 
attack, doing an additional 3 (1d6) force 
damage for every five feet it moves using 
this ability. Creatures struck by this attack are 
knocked prone.
EXTINGUISHER
Medium humanoid (elf), lawful neutral
Armor Class 16 (chainmail)
Hit Points 130 (20d8+40)
Speed 30 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
16 (+3)	 12 (+1)	 14 (+2)	 16 (+3)	 10 (+0)	 15 (+2)
Saving Throws Con +4

--- PAGE 14 ---
13
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 12
Languages Aquan, Elvish
Challenge 5 (1,800 XP)
Blessing of the Neurabon. The Extinguisher 
gains a swim speed equal to its speed and can 
breathe air or water whenever it is in the River 
Neurabon. 
Innate Spellcasting. The Extinguisher’s 
spellcasting ability is Intelligence (spell save 
DC 15). The extinguisher can innately cast 
the following spells, requiring only verbal 
components.
At will: chill touch, light, ray of frost
2/day each: fog cloud, thunderwave
1/day: misty step
Actions
Multiattack. The extinguisher makes three 
glaive attacks.
Glaive. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 
10 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d10 + 3) slashing 
damage.
Surge (Recharges after a Short or Long 
Rest). The Extinguisher is carried forward by 
a magical wave of water. It moves its speed in 
a straight line toward one target and makes a 
glaive attack, doing an additional 4 (1d8) force 
damage for every five feet it moves using 
this ability. Creatures struck by this attack are 
knocked prone.
MAGICAL WINES 
OF THE RIVER COURT
Kept in cool, dark underground chambers 
below the Neurabon river, the wine reserved 
for magical enchantment is aged at least 
twenty years before being removed. The 
brackish cellars, filled with racks of dark 
wine, are kept clean by a variety of snail 
loyal to King Ulorian.
Wine of the Court
Wondrous item (wine), common
The white glass of this bottle of sweet, dark 
red wine is made from the sand found along 
the banks of the Neurabon river. It contains 
enough for six servings and bears the sigil of 
Ulorian the First, King of the River Court. 
A creature who drinks a serving of this 
wine may speak and understand Aquan 
for 1 hour. Creatures who drink more than 
one serving within 24 hours must make a 
successful DC 12 Constitution saving throw 
or become incapacitated for 1d4 hours.
Wine of the River
Wondrous item (wine), uncommon
Kept in ebon-colored bottles, this sweet, 
aged wine tastes of citrus and a delicate 
flower that grows only on at the edge of the 
Neurabon river. The bottle contains four 
servings and is embossed with the oar-
shaped symbol of Charun. A creature who 
drinks a serving of this wine may breathe 
both air and water for 1 hour. Additionally, 
the imbiber is filled with knowledge about 
the Arbonesse forest and gains advantage on 
Intelligence (history) checks about the forest 
for 1 hour. Creatures who drink more than 
one serving within 24 hours must make a 
successful DC 14 Constitution saving throw 
or become incapacitated for 1d4 hours.

--- PAGE 15 ---
14
RIVER COURT 
ROGUE’S GALLERY
by Shawn Merwin
T
he fey lords and ladies, known for their 
capricious natures, lurk like dangerous 
spiders at the center of their otherworldly 
webs. Perhaps none are as impulsive and 
deadly as the River King, master of the 
streams, rivers, ponds, and lakes that link 
the mortal world to the fey realm.
The River King, also known as Ulorian 
or His Rippling Majesty, resides in his 
castle, which holds the Great Rippling Hall. 
The River Court is composed of the River 
King’s servants, spies, retainers, and other 
servants, all of whom gain and lose power 
as frequently as the rising and lowering of 
the tides.
Documented here are three of the River 
King’s most trusted and long-serving 
courtiers and servants. How long they 
remain in Ulorian’s favor remains to be 
seen, but while they have his trust, they are 
some of the most powerful beings in the 
River Court. The goals and motivations of 
each likely put them into contact with the 
mortal world, and thus they are potential 
threats (or maybe even incidental allies) of 
adventurers.
(For more information about the River 
King and his court, check out Wrath of the 
River King, an adventure by Wolfgang Baur 
and Robert Fairbanks.)
GRUMMLUMP, THE 
TOLL COLLECTOR
The River King rules over the waterways 
that act as passages along the Shadow Road, 
the mysterious thoroughfares that connect 
the mortal world and the fey lands. As such, 
he expects tribute from those using his 
rivers, streams, and lakes for their travels. 
His representative in acquiring such tributes 
is Grummlump, known in the River Court 
as the Toll Collector.
Grummlump in a man-sized, sentient 
humanoid frog at home as much on land 
as he is on water. His deep, croaking voice 
carries over the waves, shouting orders to 
his crew and warnings to river travelers in 
commanding tones. His wit is as sharp as 
his scimitar, but he rarely engages in small 
talk. His leather armor is stained with the 
blood of those who cross him.
Grummlump oversees dozens of crews 
that patrol the waterways, each charged 
with boarding boats, inspecting goods, 
and levying taxes and tolls as they see fit. 
Grummlump spends time with each of 
these crews, making sure each collects 
enough while not overly burdening those 
they intercept and forcing them to employ 
other means of travel. His long-standing 
position in such a capricious court speaks 
to his negotiation skills and work ethic.

--- PAGE 16 ---
15
GRUMMLUMP
Medium fey, neutral evil
Armor Class 16 (studded leather)
Hit Points 79 (12d8 + 24)
Speed 30 ft., swim 40 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
12 (+0)	 18 (+4)	 14 (+2)	 13 (+1)	 15 (+2)	 16 (+3)
Skills Deception +6, Intimidation +6, 
Perception +5, Persuasion +6, Sleight of Hand 
+7, Stealth +7
A typical crew under Grummlump’s 
guidance consists of a lieutenant and a 
number of fey or amphibious sailors loyal to 
the River King: shadow fey, elves, merfolk, 
and the like. If such a crew is encountered 
with Grummlump leading them, they fight 
to do the death, for they know what fate 
awaits if they flee while serving their master.

--- PAGE 17 ---
16
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 15
Languages Common, Sylvan
Challenge 7 (2,900 XP)
Amphibious. Grummlump can breathe air and 
water.
Speak with Amphibians. Grummlump can 
communicate with amphibious creatures.
Lightning Leap. As a bonus action, 
Grummlump can move up to his speed. This 
movement does not provoke opportunity 
attacks. If he lands next to a creature, 
Grummlump can make a scimitar attack as 
part of the bonus action.
Actions
Multiattack. Grummlump makes two scimitar 
or shortbow attacks.
Scimitar. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, 
reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) piercing 
damage.
Shortbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, 
range 80/320 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) 
piercing damage.
Tongue Lash. Grummlump’s tongue lashes out 
and grabs an object within 20 feet that can 
be held in two hands, like a weapon, shield, 
wand, or other similar item. If the object is 
unattended, he automatically takes possession 
of it. If it is attended or wielded, the target 
must succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving 
throw to retain possession.
ZIZZBAZZ, LADY PESK
Every fey court needs a network of spies, 
and the River Court is no exception. One 
of the most unique tools in the River King’s 
spy arsenal is Zizzbazz, known by friends 
and foes alike as “Lady Pesk.”
Zizzbazz appears to most as a 
gnome‑sized woman with a complex array 
of multibladed wings growing from her 
back. Her limbs and head are strangely 
elongated and thin, even for a fey folk. 
She speaks quickly and in halting, staccato 
phrases, making it difficult to understand 
her. Her short sword is designed to look 
like one of her many wings.
Zizzbazz’s role in the River Court is that of 
spy and scout. Eagles guard the River Palace 
from a distance, watching the grounds 
around the palace, but Zizzbazz is the 
one charged with investigating intruders 
around the waters controlled by the River 
King. Her natural grace and strong wings 
make her a difficult target to pin down. 
Those who try to strike her in combat often 
find their missiles and blades striking allies 
instead as she flits in and out of their reach.
ZIZZBAZZ
Small fey, neutral
Armor Class 14
Hit Points 72 (16d6 + 16)
Speed 30 ft., fly 50 (hover)
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
11 (+0)	 18 (+4)	 13 (+1)	 11 (+0)	 17 (+3)	 13 (+1)
Skills Perception +6, Stealth +7, Survival +6
Damage Immunities poison
Condition Immunities poisoned
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 16
Languages Common, Sylvan
Challenge 5 (1,800 XP)
Cunning. As a bonus action, Zizzbazz can dash, 
disengage, or hide on each of her turns in 
combat.
Flyby. Zizzbazz doesn’t provoke an opportunity 
attack when she flies out of an enemy’s reach.
Sneak Attack (1/Turn). Zizzbazz deals an extra 
17 (5d6) damage when she hits a target with 
a weapon attack and has advantage on the 
attack roll, or when the target is within 5 feet 
of an ally of Zizzbazz that isn’t incapacitated 
and Zizzbazz doesn’t have disadvantage on 
the attack roll.
Actions
Short Sword. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, 
reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) piercing 
damage.
Shortbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, 
range 80/320 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) 
piercing damage.

--- PAGE 18 ---
17
Reactions
Rapid Shift. When a melee or ranged weapon 
attack misses Zizzbazz, she can redirect that 
attack against a new target within 5 feet of her. 
The original attacker rerolls the attack against 
the new target.
UZIT, THE CRUSHING VENGEANCE
Like the relentless, pounding power of 
flowing water, the River King’s need for 
vengeance is unyielding. If a creature earns 
the ire of His Rippling Majesty in a very 
public and embarrassing manner, the River 
King does not forgive and does not forget. 
He turns to Uzit, the Crushing Vengeance.
Uzit has fine facial features, like a typical 
fey, but is the size of an ogre and has the 
bulging muscles of a pile of round river 
stone. Even the most jaded courtiers at the 
River Palace stand in awe of her raw power 
as the River King often amuses himself 
by arranging wrestling matches with four 
normal-sized foes against Uzit.
But it is when Uzit is on a mission that 
she becomes truly terrifying. She passes 
along the Shadow Roads, her stone-like 
form grinding slowly but inevitably toward 
her target. She does not sleep, eat, drink, or 
pause until she finds her query. Then she 
takes great pleasure is crushing the life from 
them, hearing their bones crack, and seeing 
her king’s revenge enacted in the most 
gruesome manner possible.
When not on a mission of vengeance, Uzit 
is pleasant company. She enjoys a good 
story and an entertaining song as much 
as the next courtier, dressing in the latest 
fashions at the court.
UZIT
Large fey, neutral evil
Armor Class 16 (natural armor)
Hit Points 133 (14d10 + 60)
Speed 20 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
20 (+5)	 8 (−1)	 20 (+5)	 8 (−1)	 12 (+1)	 8 (−1)
Skills Athletics +9
Damage Resistances piercing and slashing 
damage from nonmagical attacks
Condition Immunities charmed, exhaustion, 
paralyzed, petrified
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 11
Languages Common, Sylvan
Challenge 9 (5,000 XP)
Disguise. While Uzit remains motionless, she is 
indistinguishable from a pile of rocks.
Actions
Multiattack. Uzit makes two slam attacks.
Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 
5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (2d8 + 5) bludgeoning 
damage, and the target is grappled. While a 
target is grappled in this way, it is restrained 
(DC 17 to escape). Uzit can grapple two Large-
sized or smaller targets in this manner but 
loses one slam attack per grappled creature.
Crush. Melee Weapon Attack: one or two 
grappled targets. Uzit can crush each target 
that is has grappled. The target takes 23 (4d8 
+ 5) bludgeoning damage.

--- PAGE 19 ---
18
GUARDIANS OF THE TRIFLES
by Troy E. Taylor
I
n this 10th-level adventure, the player 
characters embark on an exploration 
of the Arbonesse, the last bastion of the 
elves. They find themselves enmeshed in 
the intrigues of the River Court, sending 
them off to the realm of the Wild Hunt on 
a quest for a magic item desired by no less 
a personage than his Implacable Majesty, 
Ulorian the First.
This adventure features many creatures 
from Tome of Beasts (TOB). 
PC HOOKS
There are many ways to hook an adventurer, 
but here’s a couple possible reasons to visit 
the Arbonesse:
•	 The Old Cities of the Arbonesse were 
abandoned and overtaken by wilderness, 
but it’s a good bet magic items and 
treasures were left behind.
•	 The PCs’ desire to visit the River Court 
where exiled elves and their allies reside.
PART 1: TRESPASSING 
INTO THE ARBONESSE
The PCs have traveled through the forest 
for several days when they come upon this 
scene, which can be read aloud to the players:
“There is a break in the forest, a stretch of 
chest-high grasses, dotted with bluebells and 
white breeches. All is still and tranquil. At the 
far end of the break, you see the White Hart! 
The great antlered deer of Arbonesse legend 
stands regally in the light of day. The creature 
is majestic and takes your breath away.
“There is a rustling and a flock of birds 
erupts from the tree line. The White Hart’s 
head swivels toward the sound. Breaking 
through is a hunting party of shadow elves.”
The hunting party includes an enchantress 
(TOB) who is in the process of casting hold 
monster at the White Hart. A forest hunter 
(TOB) leads the hunting party and has 
his longbow nocked but is waiting on the 
release of the spell. The other four archers 
are also shadow elf scouts. 
Read aloud: 
“The enchantress’s spell is cast but has 
no effect. The White Hart bounds away, 
heading straight at the adventurers. The 
shadow elves unleash their first volley, but 
none find their mark.”
The PCs may take any actions they desire. 
The White Hart will race past the PCs with 
a supernatural speed and agility. This brings 
the PCs into a direct confrontation with 
the shadow elf hunters who attack them 
without provocation.
Should combat ensue, it is interrupted 
before its conclusion by the piercing sound 
of a hunting horn. On all sides, a large patrol 
numbering twenty or more guardian elves

--- PAGE 20 ---
19
appear. All wear a patch depicting the sun 
and river crest of the River Court. Captain 
Elynwyd, an elvish veteran archer (TOB), 
leads them. Against such odds, the shadow 
elves put down their arms and surrender.
The enchantress introduces herself to 
Elynwyd. “I am Cavatina, and we are 
emissaries of the Black Prince. We beg 
mercy of the Lord of Exiles, for we were 
unable to stop these outsiders!”
Elynwyd then addresses the PCs. “You 
have done a great service in fighting these 
poachers. Please accompany us back to the 
River Court, so we can present you to Lord 
Ulorian.”
If the PCs balk at the request, the captain 
will insist. 
If the PCs go their own way, the GM may 
consider these options:
•	 Bring in an even larger patrol and force 
the PCs to comply.
•	 Skip the next encounter and have the 
PCs discover the glade in Part 3.
•	 Possibly, the PCs will join forces with the 
shadow elves. In this case, the shadow 
elves serve as “guides” to the glade.
PART 2: COURT OF THE RIVER KING
The PCs arrive at River Court. Read this to 
the players:
“The company arrives at the city of white 
stone citadels erected along the Neurabon 
River. The city is a bustling, vibrant trading 
hub. The city has a cheerful buzz about it 
with merchants hawking goods to exuberant 
shoppers while lively, chime-filled music 
fills the air. A swan boat of no discernable 
propulsion ferries the company to the island 
palace, which features towers of water, 
pearl, and ice. The company pauses in the 
courtyard to mingle with courtiers. Then it 
is permitted to enter the lesser court, a hall 
with an elegant driftwood decor. Ulorian, 
in a cloak of shimmering, flowing water, is 
in the midst of receiving petitions from his 
vassals. The courtiers are colorfully garbed. 
In addition to elf and elfmarked attendants, 
there are many wondrous fey creatures. 
After a herald’s introduction, Elynwyd 
presents the company.”
If the GM has the adventure Wrath of the 
River King, it contains a map of Ulorian’s 
palace. The map is not necessary, however.
The persons at court have their own 
objectives:
•	 Cavatina was caught red-handed 
attempting to poach the White Hart 
in an effort to please the Black Prince. 
To avoid the headman’s axe, Cavatina 
grovels and begs Ulorian’s forgiveness. 
She makes any pledge he requires.
•	 Ulorian is the River King (TOB). He 
has little interest in this episode except 
he has no wish to antagonize the Black 
Prince until he has decided whether to 
ally the River Court with his ascendant 
power. He is inclined to mercy to salvage 
relations. His other concern is more 
pressing: Gaining the upper hand on 
the Lord of the Hunt. Ulorian wants to 
exert some leverage over him—tweak his 
pride or test his power. 
•	 Elynwyd is aware of Ulorian’s dilemma 
and would use the PCs (and possibly 
the enchantress Cavatina, if the GM is 
inclined to boost the party) to infiltrate 
the Lord of the Hunt’s realm so that 
Ulorian retains deniability if anything 
goes wrong.
While in Elynwyd’s custody—in the 
courtyard and again in Ulorian’s presence—
PCs should have the opportunity to discern 
the mood and overriding concerns of those 
assembled. As needed, the GM can call 
for DC 10 ability checks of Intelligence, 
Wisdom, or Charisma for the PCs to gain 
this information. Above all, successful checks 
should reveal Ulorian’s concerns with both 
the Lord of the Hunt and the Black Prince.

--- PAGE 21 ---
20
The GM should encourage interaction 
between the PCs and Ulorian. If the PCs 
hope to persuade Ulorian or any of his 
courtiers on a point, make opposed ability 
checks.
Ulorian makes two declarations as the 
audience ends:
•	 To Cavatina. “We should deal with 
you much more harshly. But we wish 
to foster good relations between 
our kingdom and the domain of the 
shadow fey, and your trespasses did 
no actual harm. Return to the Black 
Prince with the understanding that we 
of the River Court do not take kindly 
to unannounced ‘hunting expeditions,’ 
even when the hunters are of close 
kinship. Arranged in advance, you will 
find us receptive hosts, though we limit 
our sport to game that is in abundance. 
Understand our resolve. Until we escort 
you from our borders, you will be our 
guests but under the watchful eyes of our 
beloved captain Elynwyd. We invite you 
to stay and witness as we exercise our 
good judgement in this other matter.”
•	 To the PCs. “We are gravely concerned 
by your intrusion from outside our 
sheltering forest. Are no borders sacred 
in your sight? Do you follow your own 
whims rather than good sense? Are you 
like those for whom nature is simply a 
resource to be exploited? But perhaps 
the inclinations of trespassers such 
as yourselves can be employed to a 
more fruitful outcome. Elynwyd would 
employ you, but we are not so sure it is 
within our writ to command subjects of 
another prince. Suffice to say, we would 
take it kindly if you would perform a 
small task. I would dine on sunflower 
seeds from the sacred glade. They are a 
delicacy we find to our liking. Elynwyd 
will show the way. Accomplish this task 
and earn our loyalty.”
PART 3: SACRED GLADE
The PCs come upon the sacred glade. 
The PCs’ objective is to gain a chain of 
orichalcum then dive into the whirlpool and 
be transported to the lands of the Wild Hunt.
As they arrive, read this description:
“The glade is the very picture of sylvan 
serenity. The air is filled with sweet fragrance 
of wildflowers. A bubbling brook tumbles 
over a stairstep waterfall and flows into the 
pond. The surrounding trees cover half the 
glade in shade. Three elves in diaphanous 
woodland attire, accompanied by a small 
fey creature with butterfly-like wings, are 
stringing together dandelions and using 
magic to transform them into a golden 
chain. They are giggling as they work. A 
trio of fluttering pixies are plucking seeds 
from a wild stand of sunflowers near the 
shore. The pixies zip about, playing tag 
before depositing the seeds in a sachet. At 
the center of the pool, four water nymphs 
are swimming with synchronized precision, 
a clockwise whirlpool developing in their 
wake. Four winged sprites with bows and 
wearing dour expressions flit about the 
glade’s perimeter, keeping watch. All the fey 
creatures have expressions of expectation.”
The creature helping fashion the 
orichalcum chain is a dau (TOB) named 
Seriathe. The aquatic nymphs are fey akin 
to merfolk.
The “guide” for this encounter—either 
Elynwyd, Cavatina, or Seriathe—explains 
the situation if Ulorian’s intimations at 
court are not understood. There is more to 
this than collecting sunflower seeds.
“We do not know what trials await you,” 
the guide says, indicating the vortex in the 
pool, “except you will transported to the 
realm of the Lord of the Hunt. Seek out the 
doila, which is elvish for ‘fate speaker.’ The 
doila knows your true destiny. You will 
recognize it as a catfolk creature wearing 
stoles embroidered with arcane symbols.

--- PAGE 22 ---
21
But the doila must be coerced or compelled. 
Bind the dolia in these orichalcum chains, 
and it will do your bidding. Even so, beware. 
When it prophesies, two utterances will be 
true and one will be false.”
Seriathe then speaks. “You may have of me 
one boon. If it is in my power, I will grant 
it.” The dau has some spellcasting and an 
extensive knowledge of the intrigues of the 
River Court but is a stickler for etiquette. 
The dau will respond only if the PCs are 
polite. A DC 10 Charisma (Persuasion) 
check is required.
The guide then says: “Pixies, cast some 
seeds upon the waters, and if they are 
carried to the ‘other side,’ our guests can be 
on their way!”
The PCs need to swim out to and dive into 
the vortex. It is a DC 15 Strength (Athletics) 
check to swim against the magical current 
and enter the vortex. It transports them to 
the realm of the Wild Hunt. 
PART 4: FATESPINNING DOILA
The PCs emerge on the “other side” in 
the center of a pond. The glade is nearly 
identical to the one they left, except it is 
night. There is an ominous, oppressive 
feeling. A swarm of fireflies moves across 
the pond and into the surrounding trees but 
momentarily illuminates a footpath through 
the green. A hare darts out and hops down 
the footpath.
The dark forest footpath leads several 
hundred yards to the lair of the doila. It is 
an ancient ruin of stonework. There is an 
obelisk carved with arcane symbols. The 
doila looks like a medium-sized catfolk of 
black fur wearing stoles embroidered with 
arcane symbols. 
The doila is an ancient entity known 
as a nichny (TOB). It is up to the GM to 
decide if the doila will willingly answer 
three questions about their past, present, or 
future or if it must first be captured with the 
orichalcum chain. Either way, the creature 
and the chains disappear once its third 
answer is given.
There are five “Guardians of Trifles” in 
the immediate area. These are fey creatures 
tasked with protecting a magical item. The 
GM selects or randomly determines which 
of two genuine trials the doila will reference. 
There is also one false trial that has a 
monster intended to be the PCs’ doom.
Here are the five. The quoted response is 
how the doila describes it. The changing 
tense depends on whether the prophecy 
answers a question about the past, present, 
or future—keeping in mind that the PCs’ 
perception of time is distorted in fey realms.
•	 A covey of hags guards a mirror of life 
trapping: “The drapery is removed. I see 
six, a reflection, three pair? Avert your 
eyes, lest the visage be too painful to 
behold. Your prison was/is/will be made 
of glass and silver. Your doom was/is/
will be ugliness and despair.”
•	 Malphas duelists guard an oathbow: 
“Woe be unto you. Did you/are you/
will you heed(ing) the storm crow’s 
warning? What do the duelists care 
for the twig and the twine? They carry 
flashing blades.”  
•	 A weeping treant wears a ring of 
shooting stars upon a fingerlike branch 
guarded by a selang companion: “Two 
they are, made alike and unlike by the 
same twisted devotion. One revels in 
the distortion but cannot abide to hold 
the void; the other weeps, a ringbearer 
without hands. Compassion was/is/will 
be misplaced here.” 
•	 A brood of kikimora guard a spell scroll 
of prismatic spray in an abandoned 
wizard’s hut: “Hateful bird. Hateful 
woman. Hateful bird-woman, clutching 
a rainbow. From hidey-hole diminutive, 
it fouled/fouls/will foul the whole.” 
•	 A duskthorn dryad and its vine troll 
skeleton guard a staff of the woodlands

--- PAGE 23 ---
22
in its grove: “A grove of wood, dark 
and twisted, save one. There is allure in 
bark, leaf and branch, much to fear from 
a heart of thorns. They commanded/
commands/will command bones to 
walk.” 
The false trial is a swarm of wolf spirits 
that chase the unworthy into the cave lair of 
a savager. 
•	 Supposedly they guard their lord’s 
scimitar of speed, but in truth, it is an 
empty scabbard: “A blade of speed and 
precision, was/is/will be intended for 
the master of the Wild Hunt. Trusted 
canines show the way. Do not disturb the 
bear’s peaceful slumber.”
PART 5: GUARDIANS 
OF THE TRIFLES
Each of the trials is detailed here. In the land 
of the Wild Hunt, game trails are the norm, 
foot and cart paths rarer. The circumstances 
of how the PCs crossed over and the magical 
nature of their quests allows “shortcuts” 
through the realm, short journeys to the 
trial sites. Not all the guardians will fight to 
the death; they will yield or flee if it appears 
their lives are in jeopardy.
The Way Back. The players still hold onto 
a magical connection to the sacred glade. 
Diving into the pond on this side will 
transport the PCs back to where the aquatic 
fey are maintaining the vortex.
Old Hunting Lodge
A coven of hags resides in this two-story, 
former hunting lodge. The first is a mirror 
hag (TOB), Sister Amie, who sits in a 
rocking chair clutching a lap blanket and 
greeting visitors in the main room. Sister 
Amie invites visitors to gaze into her mirror. 
Covered by a drapery, the mirror of life 
trapping hangs over the fireplace. The other 
two are green hags. Sister Belle comes from 
the upstairs wearing a sleeping gown and 
possessing a bad attitude. Sister Christine 
comes in from a side door from the kitchen 
carrying a ladle, insisting visitors taste her 
foul-smelling concoction. 
Pine Tree Encampment 
A malphas (TOB) mercenary captain 
erected a campaign tent and his company 
of three ravenfolk warriors (TOB) are 
gathered around a campfire beneath a stand 
of sheltering pine trees. They are wary 
warriors. Their charge is to keep safe their 
master’s oathbow, which is on a stand in 
the tent. 
Wildfire Ruin 
A clump of twisted, charred trees is the 
remnant of a wildfire. Sitting in the crook of 
one of the trees is a selang (TOB), singing 
an off-key rendition of a song of battle, 
pain, and bloodshed, ready to switch to its 
Alien Piping ability. The selang’s tree is a 
weeping treant (TOB), and it wears a ring 
of shooting stars.
Abandoned Wizard’s Hut 
From tiny hidey-holes, three kikimora 
(TOB) infest this former wizard’s hut. The 
kikimora are accidental guardians. When 
the hut’s former occupant hastily fled, she 
left behind a case with a scroll of prismatic 
spray in a desk.
Duskthorn Grove 
The grove of thorny trees is tightly packed, 
any movement in this area requires a DC 
10 Dexterity save to avoid taking 1d10 
piercing damage. The staff of the woodlands 
is camouflaged to look like one of the trees. 
A duskthorn dryad (TOB), Lanie, can 
command a vine troll skeleton (TOB) to 
defend the staff.
False Trial
The game trail turns into a series of 
sharp turns and grows narrower from 
surrounding dark woods. A swarm of wolf 
spirits (TOB) begins a howling pursuit

--- PAGE 24 ---
23
of the PCs, herding them down the path 
toward the lair of the savager (TOB). An 
empty scabbard is all they find.
PART 6: A THEFT DISCOVERED
The PCs return to court. Ulorian receives 
the PCs. “We sent you for sunflower 
seeds. Hardly a taxing endeavor. We dined 
without you. What took you so long?”
If the PCs present their trifle, Ulorian 
accepts it gladly. “Well, this most definitely 
is not sunflower seeds but a suitable 
substitute.”
Once the prize is delivered, the Lord of 
the Hunt (TOB) storms in. If 
the GM believes the fey 
lord is too powerful, 
substitute his 
dullahan (TOB) 
servant.
The Lord of 
the Hunt’s voice 
resonates. “There 
are thieves in this 
fish-loving, soggy 
court! My honor 
demands justice!”
Ulorian looks 
to the PCs. “You 
didn’t steal this trifle 
from the realm of the Wild 
Hunt, did you? Tsk, tsk. 
What does my lord’s 
honor require?”
“Trial by combat!” 
the Lord of the 
Hunt cries.
“So be it,” says Ulorian. 
Unless the PCs can find 
a noncombative resolution, 
the Lord of the Hunt will engage 
them. The River King will not 
let the combat turn lethal. Once someone 
appears in true jeopardy (such as two failed 
death saves), the River King will intercede, 
using his personal authority to command 
the fighting to cease. His Grasping 
Whirlpool ability can restrain the aggressors. 
Clerics provide healing.
The combat satisfies Ulorian’s desire to 
test his peer. The PCs gain a powerful ally in 
Ulorian, the third-ranking fey lord. The PCs 
are now free to explore the Arbonesse with 
Ulorian’s blessing.

--- PAGE 25 ---
24
VARIANT UNDINE 
by Shawn Merwin
T
he beautiful, destructive nature of water 
is represented by a tremendous variety 
of water creatures in Midgard. Some capture 
the tranquil elegance of a placid pond. 
Others encapsulate the terrible destruction 
of the hurricane. Somewhere between 
those two extremes are the undines, the fey 
manifestation of water in the form of waves, 
currents, and ripples. 
Daughters of Nethus. Undines are 
considered the daughters of the chained 
god Nethus, Master of the Waves. While 
they may have originated in his demesne, 
the undines have spread far and wide, some 
moving from the oceans into the seas, to 
the bays, to the lakes, and finally to the 
ponds and rivers of Midgard. The further 
the undines travel from the oceans into less 
volatile waters, the weaker and more placid 
they become.
The Undinal Hierarchy. The most 
powerful of the undines are the ocean 
and sea undines whose personalities and 
powers are as forceful as the waves and who 
threaten even large sailing vessels. They 
jealously guard their homes at the bottom 
of the largest seas and oceans, treating 
most mortals who sail or swim above them 
as intruders. Such powerful undines are a 
force to be reckoned with.
The bay or lake undines are both smaller 
in stature and weaker in destructive 
power. They still use force to protect their 
underwater homes, but they are more 
likely to live harmoniously with nearby 
mortals. Lake undines, for example, have 
been known to rescue drowning children 
or animals that wander into the water from 
nearby settlements. Of course, when the 
mood strikes, they are equally likely to sell 
those rescued children to a fey lord or lady.
The weakest and most timid of the undines 
are the pond and river varieties. They keep 
to themselves, interacting with the mortal 
population only if forced by more powerful 
creatures that they might serve. They are 
likely to hide from passing strangers, relying 
on their guardians for protection.
Undine Lairs. Undine lairs are fully 
submerged, ranging from wide-open 
expanses on the ocean floor to small 
riverside caves. Most undines use water 
creatures as guards or pets: from vicious 
sharks for the ocean undines down to 
giant crayfish for the smaller river or pond 
undines. Undines favor precious gems such 
as diamonds and pearls as their wealth.
When are not patrolling their homes and 
tending their pets, they love to make art, 
especially music and sculpture. Undine 
songs, unlike the deadly ones of their siren 
cousins, are said to soothe the soul and leave 
the listener refreshed. Undine sculpture, 
created by the power of eroding water, is 
rarely spotted by mortal eyes but is said to 
be of surpassing beauty.

--- PAGE 26 ---
25
IN RIVERS AND PONDS 
The least of the undines, those of rivers and 
ponds, rarely grow more than three feet tall. 
Their forms are draped in flowing sheets of 
water that act as clothing. They sport blue-
green hair that ranges from short and mossy 
to long and stringy, like ropy seaweed.
These undines often rely on the local 
wildlife to protect them when creatures of 
the mortal realm threaten them and their 
lairs. Giant crabs and crayfish are their main 
protectors although sometimes river- or 
lake-dwelling mammals might also serve the 
undines. Beavers or muskrats often make 
their homes near a friendly undine.
Where these undines live, the natural 
world seems to flourish. Part of it is the 
magical nature of the fey creatures, but it 
also results from their active stewardship of 
the land.
RIVER/POND UNDINE
Small fey, chaotic neutral
Armor Class 13
Hit Points 27 (8d6 + 6)
Speed 20 ft., swim 30 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
12 (+1)	 16 (+3)	 12 (+1)	 10 (+0)	 15 (+2)	 16 (+3)
Skills Nature +3, Perception +4, Persuasion +5, 
Stealth +5
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 14
Languages Common, Aquan, Sylvan
Challenge 1 (200 XP)
Amphibious. An undine can breathe air and 
water.
Actions
Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 
5 ft., one target. Hit: 5 (1d4 + 3) bludgeoning 
damage.
Chill Spray. The undine sprays a 10-foot cone 
of frigid water. Each creature in the cone must 
make a DC 13 Constitution saving throw, 
taking 7 (2d6) cold damage on a failed save, or 
half as much on a successful one.
Soothing Song. The undine target one living 
creature she can see within 30 feet of her. That 
creature must make a DC 13 Wisdom saving 
throw or become incapacitated. The creature 
can attempt a saving throw at the end of each 
of its turns to remove the effect.
IN BAYS AND LAKES 
Undines of lakes and bays are more 
powerful than their pond-dwelling sisters, 
growing to five feet or more. And in 
temperament, they are much more fickle 
and volatile. Their expressive faces run the 
range from calm contemplation to twisted 
anger, sometimes at a moment’s notice.
Undines of bays and lakes have grown 
used to their mortal neighbors, and some 
even make deals of trade or protection 
with locals. It is not unusual for an undine 
living in a lake near a farmstead to trade 
with the farming families. Raiding parties 
trying to get to a settlement by boat can run 
afoul of undines who agreed to guard the 
settlement’s water route.
Undines of the lake or bay might call 
upon larger water creatures to protect 
them: dolphins, alligators, and the like. 
They are fiercely protective of their homes, 
rarely allowing a land-dwelling mortal to 
get near it. The few who have seen undine 
lairs and lived to tell the tale speak of it as if 
it’s a dream: beautiful sculptures, mournful 
aquatic songs, and hollows of glittering 
gems.
BAY/LAKE UNDINE
Medium fey, chaotic neutral
Armor Class 14 (natural armor)
Hit Points 78 (12d8 + 24)
Speed 30 ft., swim 40 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
16 (+3)	 14 (+2)	 14 (+2)	 11 (+0)	 15 (+2)	 16 (+3)
Skills Athletics +6, Perception +5, Stealth +5
Damage Resistances cold, fire
Condition Immunities petrified, prone

--- PAGE 27 ---
26

--- PAGE 28 ---
27
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 15
Languages Common, Aquan, Sylvan
Challenge 4 (1,100 XP)
Amphibious. An undine can breathe air and 
water.
Innate Spellcasting. The undine’s innate 
spellcasting ability is Intelligence. It can 
innately cast the following spells, requiring no 
components.
At will: friends, resistance
3/day each: acid arrow, blur, misty step
1/day each: hypnotic pattern
Actions
Multiattack. The undine makes two slam 
attacks or two water plume attacks.
Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 
5 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) bludgeoning 
damage.
Water Plume. Ranged Weapon Attack: +7 
to hit, range 120 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d10 
+ 3) bludgeoning damage. The target must 
succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving throw or 
be knocked prone.
IN OCEANS AND SEAS 
The largest and most powerful undines in 
Midgard are those of the oceans and seas, 
carrying the power of the crashing waves 
within them—a threat to entire vessels. 
When they appear above the surface, they 
stand eight feet tall with rippling muscles 
under watery skin, and their features 
resemble beautiful women clothed in 
patches of seaweed.
These undines are quick to anger. The 
mere presence of mortals in the waters 
around their homes drives them into a rage 
that is hard to quell. Without quick talking 
and persuasive reasoning, they are quick to 
smash vessels. Very few mortal sailors have 
encountered undine and lived to tell.
Rumors speak that these powerful undines 
are gathering forces and preparing to attack 
the Oracle of Kammae where their sire 
Nethas has been chained as a prisoner for 
decades. Only priestess Qorette Mardefon of 
Nethus knows for sure if this is true or not.
OCEAN/SEA UNDINES
Large fey, chaotic neutral
Armor Class 16 (natural armor)
Hit Points 136 (16d10 + 48)
Speed 20 ft., swim 60 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
19 (+4)	 12 (+1)	 16 (+3)	 11 (+0)	 14 (+2)	 14 (+2)
Skills Athletics +7, Perception +5
Damage Immunities acid, cold, fire
Condition Immunities charmed, paralyzed, 
petrified, prone
Senses darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 15
Languages Common, Aquan, Sylvan
Challenge 8 (3,900 XP)
Amphibious. An undine can breathe air and 
water.
Innate Spellcasting. The undine’s innate 
spellcasting ability is Intelligence. It can 
innately cast the following spells, requiring no 
components.
At will: create/destroy water, fog cloud, 
thunderwave
3/day each: call lightning, enthrall, shatter
1/day: cone of cold, conjure elemental, 
mislead
Actions
Multiattack. The undine makes three slam 
attacks.
Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 
ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) bludgeoning 
damage.
Acid Geyser (Recharge 5-6). The undine 
sprays a 30-foot cone of corrosive water. 
Each creature in the cone must make a DC 15 
Constitution saving throw, taking 35 (10d6) 
acid damage on a failed save and being 
pushed 20 feet. On a successful saving throw, 
a target takes half damage and is not pushed.

--- PAGE 29 ---
28
OPEN GAME LICENSE Version 1.0a 
The following text is the property of Wizards of the 
Coast, Inc. and is Copyright 2000 Wizards of the Coast, 
Inc (“Wizards”). All Rights Reserved. 
1. Definitions: (a)”Contributors” means the 
copyright and/or trademark owners who have 
contributed Open Game Content; (b)”Derivative 
Material” means copyrighted material including 
derivative works and translations (including into 
other computer languages), potation, modification, 
correction, addition, extension, upgrade, improvement, 
compilation, abridgment or other form in which an 
existing work may be recast, transformed or adapted; 
(c) “Distribute” means to reproduce, license, rent, lease, 
sell, broadcast, publicly display, transmit or otherwise 
distribute; (d)”Open Game Content” means the game 
mechanic and includes the methods, procedures, 
processes and routines to the extent such content 
does not embody the Product Identity and is an 
enhancement over the prior art and any additional 
content clearly identified as Open Game Content 
by the Contributor, and means any work covered 
by this License, including translations and derivative 
works under copyright law, but specifically excludes 
Product Identity. (e) “Product Identity” means product 
and product line names, logos and identifying marks 
including trade dress; artifacts; creatures characters; 
stories, storylines, plots, thematic elements, dialogue, 
incidents, language, artwork, symbols, designs, 
depictions, likenesses, formats, poses, concepts, 
themes and graphic, photographic and other visual 
or audio representations; names and descriptions 
of characters, spells, enchantments, personalities, 
teams, personas, likenesses and special abilities; 
places, locations, environments, creatures, equipment, 
magical or supernatural abilities or effects, logos, 
symbols, or graphic designs; and any other trademark 
or registered trademark clearly identified as Product 
identity by the owner of the Product Identity, and 
which specifically excludes the Open Game Content; 
(f) “Trademark” means the logos, names, mark, sign, 
motto, designs that are used by a Contributor to 
identify itself or its products or the associated products 
contributed to the Open Game License by the 
Contributor (g) “Use”, “Used” or “Using” means to use, 
Distribute, copy, edit, format, modify, translate and 
otherwise create Derivative Material of Open Game 
Content. (h) “You” or “Your” means the licensee in 
terms of this agreement.
2. The License: This License applies to any Open 
Game Content that contains a notice indicating that 
the Open Game Content may only be Used under and 
in terms of this License. You must affix such a notice to 
any Open Game Content that you Use. No terms may 
be added to or subtracted from this License except 
as described by the License itself. No other terms 
or conditions may be applied to any Open Game 
Content distributed using this License. 
3. Offer and Acceptance: By Using the Open 
Game Content You indicate Your acceptance of the 
terms of 
this License. 
4. Grant and Consideration: In consideration for 
agreeing to use this License, the Contributors grant 
You a perpetual, worldwide, royalty-free, nonexclusive 
license with the exact terms of this License to Use, the 
Open Game Content. 
5. Representation of Authority to Contribute: If 
You are contributing original material as Open Game 
Content, You represent that Your Contributions are 
Your original creation and/or You have sufficient rights 
to grant the rights conveyed by this License. 
6. Notice of License Copyright: You must update 
the COPYRIGHT NOTICE portion of this License to 
include the exact text of the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of 
any Open Game Content You are copying, modifying 
or distributing, and You must add the title, the 
copyright date, and the copyright holder’s name to 
the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any original Open Game 
Content you Distribute. 
7. Use of Product Identity: You agree not to 
Use any Product Identity, including as an indication 
as to compatibility, except as expressly licensed in 
another, independent Agreement with the owner of 
each element of that Product Identity. You agree not 
to indicate compatibility or co-adaptability with any 
Trademark or Registered Trademark in conjunction 
with a work containing Open Game Content except as 
expressly licensed in another, independent Agreement 
with the owner of such Trademark or Registered 
Trademark. The use of any Product Identity in Open 
Game Content does not constitute a challenge to the 
ownership of that Product Identity. The owner of any 
Product Identity used in Open Game Content shall 
retain all rights, title and interest in and to that Product 
Identity.
8. Identification: If you distribute Open Game 
Content You must clearly indicate which portions of 
the work that you are distributing are Open Game 
Content. 
9. Updating the License: Wizards or its designated 
Agents may publish updated versions of this License. 
You may use any authorized version of this License to 
copy, modify and distribute any Open Game Content 
originally distributed under any version of this License. 
10. Copy of this License: You MUST include a copy 
of this License with every copy of the Open Game 
Content You Distribute. 
11. Use of Contributor Credits: You may not 
market or advertise the Open Game Content using 
the name of any Contributor unless You have written 
permission from the Contributor to do so. 
12. Inability to Comply: If it is impossible for You 
to comply with any of the terms of this License with 
respect to some or all of the Open Game Content due 
to statute, judicial order, or governmental regulation 
then You may not Use any Open Game Material so 
affected. 
13. Termination: This License will terminate 
automatically if You fail to comply with all terms 
herein and fail to cure such breach within 30 days of 
becoming aware of the breach. All sublicenses shall 
survive the termination of this License. 
14. Reformation: If any provision of this License 
is held to be unenforceable, such provision shall be 
reformed only to the extent necessary to make it 
enforceable. 
15. COPYRIGHT NOTICE 
Open Game License v 1.0a Copyright 2000, 
Wizards of the Coast, Inc. 
System Reference Document 5.0 Copyright 2016, 
Wizards of the Coast, Inc.; Authors Mike Mearls, Jeremy 
Crawford, Chris Perkins, Rodney Thompson, Peter Lee, 
James Wyatt, Robert J. Schwalb, Bruce R. Cordell, Chris 
Sims, and Steve Townshend, based on original material 
by E. Gary Gygax and Dave Arneson.
Tome of Beasts. Copyright 2016, Open Design; 
Authors Chris Harris, Dan Dillon, Rodrigo Garcia 
Carmona, and Wolfgang Baur.
Warlock 7: Fey Courts. Authors: Wolfgang Baur, 
Shawn Merwin , Jon Sawatsky, Troy E. Taylor. © 2018 
Open Design.

--- PAGE 30 ---
SUPPORTED BY 
 $9.99 
Printed in USA