--- PAGE 1 ---
A 5E WARLOCK ADVENTURE 
BY MIKE WELHAM
Pride of the 
Mushroom Queen
FOR 4 PCS OF 
6TH LEVEL

--- PAGE 2 ---
Kobold Press, Midgard, Open Design, and their associated logos are trademarks 
of Open Design, LLC.
Product Identity: The following items are hereby identified as Product Identity, 
as defined in the Open Game License version 1.0a, Section 1(e), and are not 
Open Content: All trademarks, registered trademarks, proper names (characters, 
place names, new deities, etc.), dialogue, plots, story elements, locations, 
characters, artwork, sidebars, and trade dress. (Elements that have previously 
been designated as Open Game Content are not included in this declaration.)
Open Game Content: The Open content in this adventure is the vomiting slime 
mold trap and the putrescent faerie circle spell. All other content is Product 
Identity.
© 2018 Open Design, LLC
www.koboldpress.com
varieties of beautiful fungi, they watched as she embraced 
these visions and espoused the rights of these overlooked 
plants. Her fellow elves regarded her as eccentric and 
ignored her rantings as harmless…until she began to poison 
plants and cultivate harmful fungi. The elven leaders had 
no choice but to imprison her while they discussed her fate. 
They didn’t want to execute her, but exiling her into the 
forest would allow her to continue endangering it.
It was a moot point since she escaped with the aid of the 
Weft of Shadows’ agents. Angered at her treatment and 
the elves’ lack of understanding about the inevitable fungal 
paradise, she “conveniently” discovered the Enoki Scepter 
at the most opportune time. After surreptitiously infecting 
a community of Arbonesse elves with the scepter’s magic, 
she remained nearby until the elves began to succumb 
to the fungal rot that resisted their magic. Disappointed 
when the first casualties transformed into shambling plant 
creatures that followed her around, she decided she needed 
a place to study the scepter and further unlock its magic. 
Unknowingly led to a clearing with a thinning border to the 
Plane of Shadow, she used the scepter to create a modest 
garden of fungi. As she grew more confident with the 
PRIDE OF THE MUSHROOM QUEEN
Design: Mike Welham
Editing: Meagan Maricle 
Graphic Design: Rick Kunz
Art Director: Marc Radle
Cover Art: M. Wayne Miller
Interior Art: M. Wayne Miller
Cartography: Dyson Logos
Publisher: Wolfgang Baur
TM
Adventure Background
Two centuries ago, a creature known as the Weft of Shad­
ows broke into a minor elf noble’s extraplanar vault in the 
Summer Lands and deposited several powerful magic items 
from the vault in random forest locations on Midgard. 
Thanks to an unusual set of rules involved in the creation of 
the items, once mortal hands have touched the artifacts, the 
elves cannot reclaim them. 
Similarly, these odd rules prevented the Weft of Shadows 
from making shadow versions of the relics without them 
first touching mortal hands. While the Weft of Shadows 
was content to allow the other artifacts wreak havoc in their 
own ways, it had different plans for the Enoki Scepter. The 
device was capable of corrupting plants and flesh with fungi, 
and the Weft planned to use it to inflict terrible harm on the 
Arbonesse elves.
The Weft of Shadows’ agents found a victim in Elela 
Argaria Sheoloss, an elf with a predilection for mushrooms 
growing in the shadows of the Arbonesse’s great trees. After 
flooding her mind with visions of a paradise filled with all

--- PAGE 3 ---
3
MAPS: CLICK HERE TO DOWNLOAD THIS MAP FOR YOUR VIRTUAL TABLE TOP.
2
3
4
6
7
1
5
9
10
11
12
8

--- PAGE 4 ---
4
scepter, she devastated other small communities, which fell 
to virulent fungal infections inflicted by the scepter. Finally, 
she nearly depleted the scepter’s power to create her grand 
Fungal Citadel, which stands as a blight in the forest and a 
beacon to her “converts.”
Surviving Arbonesse elves watch helplessly as their loved 
ones die and arise the next morning to shamble mindlessly 
deep within the forest toward the citadel. Aware of their 
susceptibility to the so-called Mushroom Queen’s magic, 
they seek outside assistance to defeat the menace.
Adventure Hooks
The PCs may be traveling through the Arbonesse on other 
business and end up in an afflicted village or encounter a 
villager seeking assistance. Daesanderena may have worked 
with the PCs to retrieve portions of the wayward artifacts 
(as detailed in “Wrath of the Bramble King”) and seeks their 
assistance once again (see “A Simple Request” below). Final­
ly, one of the PCs may be an Arbonesse elf, or the PCs may 
be friends of the elves from other adventures, compelling 
them to assist the elves.
A Rotten State of Affairs
The PCs arrive at an afflicted village and can view the horror 
of elves covered in a wide variety of mushrooms, toadstools, 
and other fungi. Most of the elves are bedridden, hours 
or days away from their terrible fate of transforming into 
shambling plants bound to walk toward the Fungal Cita­
del. The fungus resists efforts to remove it as a disease or 
to destroy it as a plant and seems to intensify its growth in 
response to such countermeasures. Investigating the spread 
of the fungus reveals it only seems to affect Arbonesse elves. 
This is corroborated by anecdotes of uninfected elves touch­
ing infected elves and waking the next morning with fungi 
growing from their bodies. The Arbonesse elves are reticent 
at best to confront the Mushroom Queen and plead for the 
PCs to eliminate her and find a cure for their condition. The 
elves’ desperation induces them to offer a suit of elven chain 
as a reward to the PCs, even if none of them are elves.
To find the Fungal Citadel, the PCs can follow a dead 
victim that arises and meanders toward the complex. 
Alternatively, a successful DC 10 Wisdom (Survival) check 
picks up a broken trail of mushrooms leading to the citadel.
A Simple Request
Daesanderena, an elf from the Summer Lands, finds the 
PCs as they travel to the Fungal Citadel, if she has not al­
ready commissioned them to retrieve a portion of the Enoki 
Scepter. If the PCs helped her with the Bramble Crown, she 
expresses her appreciation for their assistance. She requires 
the PCs to retrieve a living fungus growing from the Enoki 
Scepter for her (relaying the information in the first para­
graph of the Adventure Background, if necessary). Once 
the PCs return with the requested item, she gifts them with 
a gem of brightness, hoping it will serve them well in future 
dealings with the Weft of Shadows.
The Fungal Citadel
The Mushroom Queen found this clearing in the Arbo­
nesse Forest with its meandering stream feeding a couple of 
ponds and decided this was the perfect location for her seat 
of power. She expended most of the Enoki Scepter’s power 
to erect this compound from fungal material. The center­
piece of the citadel (Area 6) is shaped like a tall mushroom 
measuring 30 feet high and topped with a bright red cap, 
which shades most of the remainder of the complex. She 
built the other rooms out of sturdy fungal material that 
gives the walls and doors the consistency of wood; however, 
the walls constantly sweat and breathe, giving the whole 
place an unsettling appearance.
Though the citadel’s floors are spongy, they provide 
adequate support for most creatures and are normal terrain 
except where noted. Bioluminescent fungi provide dim light 
throughout the Citadel except where noted. Innumerable 
spores float gently in this light.
The Enoki Scepter’s corrupted magic permeates the citadel. 
While within the Fungal Citadel, elves and elfmarked take a 
–2 penalty on all saving throws against poisons and diseases. 
Arbonesse elves are especially susceptible to the scepter’s 
magic and have disadvantage on these saving throws in 
addition to the penalty.
The smell of rot pervades every room in the citadel. A PC 
who does not take precautions to cover his or her nose and 
mouth must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw 
or become poisoned for 1 hour. An unprotected PC must 
attempt this save every 10 minutes he or she remains within 
the citadel.
ADAPTING PRIDE OF THE MUSHROOM QUEEN 
FOR TALES OF MARGREVE
Though this adventure takes place in the Arbonesse forest, it can 
easily be adapted to fit into the Margreve. First, the Arbonesse elves 
afflicted by the fungal conversion should be changed to elves with 
Stross ancestry. Second, while the Fungal Citadel is regarded as 
“natural” to a certain extent, the Margreve regards it as an affront, 
especially as it creeps outward. Thus, the PCs receive status for 
destroying the Fungal Citadel and allowing the Margreve to reclaim 
the land.

--- PAGE 5 ---
5
1. ENTRANCE TO THE CITADEL
Black and red fungal material forms striped doors, mark­
ing the entrance to the Mushroom Queen’s compound. 
There are no handles or knobs to open the doors, but a 
successful DC 14 Intelligence (Investigation) check finds 
an indentation on the door that holds a slimy nodule. The 
doors swing inward when the nodule is pressed. The doors 
can also be hacked apart with a successful DC 15 Strength 
check using an edged weapon or tool, but the noise alerts 
the creatures in Areas 3, 4, and 6 to the PCs’ presence. If 
the PCs followed a risen victim here, it melds through the 
door and into the Citadel without issue. The body then 
continues to shamble to Area 5 where the fungal vines on 
the wall embrace the new convert and hang it from the wall 
in a supplicating pose.
A successful DC 20 Wisdom (Perception) or Intelligence 
(Nature) check notices four shriekers hidden among the 
fungi surrounding the door. The shriekers create a loud 
enough noise to alert every creature within the Fungal 
Citadel.
Opening the door reveals a grand hallway covered by a 
pale “carpet” of nauseating orange striations on the floor. 
The “carpet” changes color to a deep purple hue in the 
hallway to Area 2, to the color of fresh blood in the hallway 
to Area 3, and to a golden color as it curves into Area 5. 
The alcoves in the western wall are filled with statues of the 
Mushroom Queen, albeit less ostentatious than the one 
found in Area 2.
2. THE MUSHROOM QUEEN’S EFFIGY
As the PCs round the corner to the north, the rotting 
stench gives way to an intoxicatingly pleasant fragrance. 
Doors seems to lead out of this chamber from all cardinal 
directions. The floor and walls shift from a deep purple to 
lavender, and the bioluminescent fungi intensifies such that 
the room is filled with bright light. A statue of the Mush­
room Queen with her arms outstretched and pointing to the 
east and west doors stands 15 feet tall and fills most of this 
chamber. None of the doors open to any chambers, but ac­
cessing the northern and southern doors unveils two parts 
of the key necessary to gain entrance to the central garden 
in Area 6, exposing PCs to the traps described below. The 
eastern and western doors are not trapped, but they conceal 
abstract carvings of the Mushroom Queen.
Vomiting Slime Mold Trap. When a creature opens the 
northern door, a barely-contained flow of slime mold sprays 
out. Each creature within 15 feet of the door must make a 
DC 15 Dexterity saving throw. On a failure, a creature takes 
5 (1d10) bludgeoning damage and 11 (2d10) poison damage 
and is poisoned for 10 minutes. On a success, a creature 
takes half the damage and isn’t poisoned. 
	 Prevention. A successful DC 14 Wisdom (Perception) 
check hears a gurgling sound behind the northern door as 
if a high-pressure fluid is pushing against it. A successful 
DC 15 Strength check when opening the door holds it open 
just enough for the pressure from the slime to be released 
without harming all creatures within 15 feet of the door. On 
a failure, the trap triggers as normal. 
Violet Fungus Expulsion Trap. When a creature opens 
the southern door, a wall of violet fungus explodes in rotting 
spores. Each creature within 20 feet of the door must make 
a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw, taking 22 (4d10) necrotic 
damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a 
successful one.
	 Prevention. A successful DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) 
check notices the smell of rot behind the southern door. A 
successful DC 15 Strength check when opening the door 
slows the flow of spores, limiting how many are ejected at 
one time. If successful, each creature within 20 feet of the 
door has advantage on its saving throw. On a failure, the trap 
triggers as normal. Alternatively, a gust of wind spell timed 
with opening the door disperses the spores harmlessly.
Two key halves carved from a gold-colored mushroom 
sit imbedded in the walls behind the northern and southern 
doors. Tendrils wriggle out from each half, harmlessly 
grasping at any creature that holds it. When the two halves 
are put together, they make a sucking sound and combine 
into one triangular, golden mushroom key. Once formed, 
the key can’t be separated into its two halves again.
3. RECEPTION AREA
The Mushroom Queen believes that once she becomes 
established in the Arbonesse as a ruler in her own right, she 
will need to meet with guests. She carved out this chamber 
near the main entrance to serve as a room where she could 
greet subjects and visiting dignitaries in a comfortable and 
friendly manner. The floor is checkered in alternating patch­
es of white and dark brown fungi, and the ceiling is covered 
in lacy, luminous moss. Two red-surfaced tables surrounded 
by chairs carved from sturdy fungi rest near the northern 
and western walls. 
Two cavelight moss (Tome of Beasts, p. 53) cling to the 
ceiling and attack any creature not accompanied by the 
Mushroom Queen. 
4. RESPLENDENT POND
The Mushroom Queen preserved the vibrant purple and 
orange flowering plants in this room when she found the 
death butterfly swarm (Tome of Beasts, p. 71) attending 
them. The swarm does not bother her or any other fungal 
creatures. The butterflies composing the swarm flit about 
the flowers for one round before coalescing into a swarm 
and attacking fleshy (or undead) intruders. A successful 
DC 14 Intelligence (Nature) check recognizes the swarm’s 
danger before it forms.

--- PAGE 6 ---
6
5. GALLERY
Elf victims who die because of the Enoki Scepter’s fungal 
infestation become mobile, semi-sentient, elf-shaped plants 
and wander to the Fungal Citadel. They station themselves 
along the walls of this gallery, becoming “statues” that give 
the Mushroom Queen a grand view of her handiwork when 
she leaves the central garden. All of them are long dead, but 
each hangs on the wall, suspended by “vines” of silver fun­
gus in various poses of supplication or heroism—whichever 
the Mushroom Queen found most pleasing upon the crea­
ture’s arrival. After the Mushroom Queen’s magic is reversed 
in the Fungal Citadel, these unfortunates revert to flesh, but 
they remain dead. The gallery’s floor is a spongy carpet of 
golden fungus, and the walls are drapes of silver fungus that 
emit bright light. 
The door to Area 6 appears to be a contiguous section 
of the wall broken only by a circular, golden panel made 
of fungus. A triangular indentation sits in the center of 
the panel. A successful DC 15 Intelligence (Arcana or 
Investigation) check realizes the unique and slightly-magical 
nature of the lock and that it requires a special key to open.
TREASURE
Many of the victims still wear or carry mementos of their 
former lives. A successful DC 18 Wisdom (Perception) 
check while inspecting the “statues” finds a few wedding 
rings, necklaces, wooden carvings, and other personal trin­
kets worth a total of 75 gp.
6. THE CENTRAL GARDEN
While the other areas in the Fungal Citadel have been 
cultivated to mimic passageways and rooms in an ordinary 
building, the central garden has been allowed to run ram­
pant. A meandering walking path cuts through the veritable 
forest of fungi. Standing mushrooms and toadstools in the 
area have a disturbing tendency to lean toward flesh-and-
blood creatures. If a creature brushes up against a fungus, 
the fungus releases relatively harmless spores, which induce 
a mild cough, watery eyes, or a runny nose but otherwise 
inflict no harm.
The water from the stream pools into a pond in the 
southwestern portion of the garden. The pondwater is clear, 
allowing creatures to see its entire 20-foot depth. While 
the water seems uncontaminated, the six moss lurkers 
(Tome of Beasts, p. 298) hiding in this room were allowed 
to poison it. A creature that drinks the water must succeed 
on a DC 11 Constitution saving throw or become poisoned 
for 1 hour. The moss lurkers use their natural camouflage 
to hide in the forest of fungus and attack intruders with hit-
and-run tactics. 
A clearing in the northeast holds the remains of a 
putrescent faerie circle spell (see below). The wilting black 
toadstools that form the ring are harmless now, but contain 
the bones of animal and humanoid victims brought here 
by the Mushroom Queen’s servants. A successful DC 17 
Intelligence (Arcana or Nature) check realizes the ring was 
created by a spell. A druid or a cleric of a nature-focused 
deity that spends 1 hour studying the ring can learn the 
putrescent faerie circle spell, though the druid or cleric can’t 
cast the spell unless it is of the appropriate level to do so.
7. THE SHADOW HALL
The walls and floors in this hall are made of a black fungus 
with dark purple geometric patterns. The hall is shrouded 
in darkness. Unless otherwise noted, the rooms connected 
to this one are made of the same material and are similarly 
dark. 
After the Mushroom Queen gave herself over more to the 
Weft of Shadows, she agreed to permit shadowy creatures 
with tenuous ties to fungi to roam freely here. One such 
creature, a razorleaf (Creature Codex, p. 317), stands in 
front of the double doors leading to the throne room (Area 
10) and exacerbates the gloom pervading this hallway. The 
razorleaf has planted its roots in the fungal ground outside 
the throne room, its Dark Ground trait actively reducing any 
light that tries to pierce the gloom. 
8. THE GARDEN OF DEAD MUSHROOMS
Contrasting to the vibrant, if grotesque, life pervading most 
of the Fungal Citadel, this room is covered in what appear to 
be dead mushrooms. The caps of the mushrooms have been 
carved out and filled with an inky liquid. A ring of twenty 
such mushrooms surrounds a 10-foot tall toadstool, which 
sits in the center of the room. The air in the room is notice­
ably colder than the others in this hallway. The room’s close 
tie to the Plane of Shadows allows the Mushroom Queen to 
use the pools of inky liquid to commune with the Weft of 
Shadows. The inky liquid within the giant toadstool holds 
two shadow oozes (Creature Codex, p. 287), which attack 
intruders that aren’t accompanied by the Mushroom Queen.
A successful DC 15 Wisdom (Insight) check gives a PC 
the feeling of being watched. A successful DC 15 Intelligence 
(Arcana) check while inspecting the pools of dark liquid 
recognizes the pools’ use as rudimentary scrying devices. 
However, the pools currently only allow for something to 
view into this chamber and not vice versa. If a PC attempts 
to remove any liquid, it evaporates into wisps of shadow 
within 1 round of being removed from its mushroom.
9. MACABRE EXPERIMENTATION
A wooden table covered in oozing plant matter stands in 
each of this chamber’s corners. Another, larger table sits in 
the chamber’s center. A mold-covered corpse lies on the 
table with a single, black flower sprouting from its chest.

--- PAGE 7 ---
7
As the Mushroom Queen’s attempts to create rotting 
thralls grew more sophisticated, her minions improved 
from short-lived, mindless, shambling plants that rooted 
themselves in her gallery (Area 5) to shambling zombies 
capable of following orders. She used this room for various 
experiments after creating the two mindrot thralls in Area 
12. The Plane of Shadow’s influence in the Fungal Citadel 
seeded a gloomflower (Creature Codex, p. 188) in the chest 
of the Mushroom Queen’s latest victim, the mold zombie 
(Creature Codex, p. 395) that lies on the central table. The 
zombie awaits the Queen’s orders or for intruders to disturb 
its slumber. The gloomflower detaches itself from the mold 
zombie on the first turn it acts.
Each of the three chambers adjoining this room contains a 
mold zombie similarly awaiting the Queen’s next order. Each 
corpse has a nascent gloomflower imbedded within its chest, 
which can’t attack and dies if the mold zombie is destroyed.
10. MUSHROOM QUEEN’S THRONE ROOM
The Mushroom Queen spends much of her time in this 
room. A mottled purple throne covered in bright 
red mushrooms sits on a dais in the north­
eastern section of the chamber. Sheets of 
fungus in various hues of red and purple 
with varying degrees of transparency 
hang from the ceiling. As a gesture of 
solidarity toward the Weft of Shadows, she 
allows the interior of the doors to retain 
the black and purple coloration found in 
Area 7.
The Mushroom Queen waits upon 
her throne, even if she is alerted to the 
PCs’ presence through the shriekers’ 
alarm or nearby sounds of combat. She 
is imperious and regards non-plant 
creatures as her inferiors. However, 
she is impressed by the PCs making 
it past her guardians. She offers to 
harmlessly remake them if they agree 
to serve her. Indeed, the Mushroom 
Queen is true to her word, and the 
process is pain-free for those who 
peacefully submit to her. Of course, 
she doesn’t expect the PCs to agree 
and attacks when they threaten her 
or move threateningly within 15 feet 
of her.
The Mushroom Queen uses the 
statistics of the void speaker (Creature 
Codex, p. 408), except she has immunity to 
poison and can’t use the Repelling Word option of 
Word of the Void action. In addition, she replaces cone 
of cold (or living shadows if using the Midgard Worldbook) 
with putrescent faerie circle (see below). When she feels the 
PCs are threatening her or if they move to attack her, she 
casts the spell to ensnare as many of them as possible and 
continues attempting to sway them to her side. She dismisses 
it if the spell noticeably weakens the PCs too quickly, not 
wanting to outright kill potential new minions. If further 
attempts to convince them to join her do not work, she 
resigns herself to the task of killing them and attacks without 
restraint. The mindrot thralls in Area 12 can sense when 
the Queen is in danger and arrive to the throne room 1d4 
rounds after combat starts.
The Mushroom Queen’s dagger attack inflicts iumenta 
pox (see the mold zombie) if a creature hit by it fails a DC 15 
Constitution saving throw. The Mushroom Queen’s iumenta 
pox requires three successful saving throws to cure it and a 
creature that dies from the disease rises as a mindrot thrall 
(Tome of Beasts, p. 290) instead of as a mold zombie.

--- PAGE 8 ---
8
11. MUSHROOM QUEEN’S BEDCHAMBER
This simply-appointed room contains a plush, canopy bed 
made of fungus with transparent drapes of fungal matter 
hanging from it. A small, wooden desk with a mushroom 
stool beside it sits across from the bed. The desk contains 
parchment, quills, and ink. Several pieces of the parchment 
contain what appear to be various iterations of a royal 
emblem—the Mushroom Queen’s attempts at creating her 
own seal in preparation for her establishment as a ruler in 
the Arbonesse. 
TREASURE 
A successful DC 15 Intelligence (Investigation) check finds 
a hidden compartment in the desk that holds a golden 
crown set with rubies and amethysts worth 150 gp. 
12. THE POLLUTED POOL
The Mushroom Queen shoved the Enoki Scepter into the 
bottom of this stream-fed, muck-filled pool to keep it out 
of her enemies’ hands and to give it time to recollect power. 
A successful DC 18 Wisdom (Perception) check notic­
es the scepter protruding just above the pool’s surface. A 
successful DC 15 Intelligence (Arcana) check reveals the 
scepter has gone dormant, depleted of much of its magic. 
The Mushroom Queen used most of it in the creation of the 
Fungal Citadel.
After the Mushroom Queen achieved her greatest 
success by creating a pair of mindrot thralls (Tome of 
Beasts, p. 290), she placed them in this chamber to guard 
the weakened scepter. The creatures tried in vain to 
communicate their desire for closer proximity to her to 
protect her better, but she refused. She feels the scepter 
needs more protection than see does, and she feels it 
would be a sign of weakness if she entertained guests with 
a retinue of guards at her side. The creatures are linked to 
her, though, and make their way to her throne room (Area 
10) if they sense she is in distress. They are also linked to 
the scepter and can sense when a creature other than the 
Mushroom Queen grabs the Enoki Scepter.
DEVELOPMENT
A successful DC 20 Intelligence (Arcana or Nature) check 
reveals a process for destroying the depleted scepter. A 
character who spends an hour studying the scepter has 
advantage on this check. To destroy the scepter, it must be 
exposed to 12 continual hours of sunlight with a creature 
dealing at least 10 radiant damage to the scepter by the end 
of each hour. Destroying the scepter in this way causes the 
Fungal Citadel to dissolve and cures all creatures of any 
diseases inflicted by the Mushroom Queen.
Concluding the Adventure
If the Enoki Scepter is not destroyed, it goes into a period 
of dormancy for 50 years. The Arbonesse elves prefer to 
sequester the relic away to avoid possible misuse again. A 
successful DC 20 Charisma (Persuasion) check convinces 
the elves to give the scepter to the PCs for study or even­
tual destruction. The afflicted villages are quarantined, 
and the infected die within a week as their fungus-covered 
bodies root themselves where they perish. The elves burn 
the affected villages to the ground after they are certain the 
disease no longer spreads.
If the PCs destroy the scepter, the villagers slowly return 
to normal and all signs of the Mushroom Queen’s influence 
vanish within 24 hours.
If the PCs defeat the Mushroom Queen, the Arbonesse 
elves regard them favorably and allow them to travel the 
forest unchallenged. If the PCs also destroy the scepter and 
restore the living victims, the River Court names the PCs 
friends of the Arbonesse, and the PCs may be able to parlay 
this into a future favor from the court.
The Weft of Shadows becomes directly aware of the PCs’ 
involvement, and it sends shadowy minions to harass or 
destroy its new enemies.
If the PCs bring a fungal growth from the Enoki Scepter 
to Daesanderena, she gives them the gem of brightness, as 
promised. 
New Spell
PUTRESCENT FAERIE CIRCLE
5th-level conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a piece of poisonous fungus)
Duration Concentration, up to 1 minute
You create a 20-foot-diameter circle of loosely-packed 
toadstools that spew sickly white spores and ooze a tarry 
substance. At the start of each of your turns, each creature 
within the circle must make a Constitution saving throw. A 
creature takes 4d8 necrotic damage on a failed save, or half 
as much damage on a successful one.
If a creature attempts to pass through the ring of 
toadstools, the toadstools release a cloud of spores, and 
the creature must make a Constitution saving throw. On 
a failure, the creature takes 8d8 poison damage and is 
poisoned for 1 minute. On a success, the creature takes half 
as much damage and isn’t poisoned. While a creature is 
poisoned, it is paralyzed. It can attempt a new Constitution 
saving throw at the end of each of its turns to remove the 
paralyzed condition (but not the poisoned condition).

--- PAGE 9 ---
9
OPEN GAME LICENSE Version 1.0a 
The following text is the property of Wizards of the Coast, Inc. and 
is Copyright 2000 Wizards of the Coast, Inc (“Wizards”). All Rights 
Reserved. 
1. Definitions: (a)”Contributors” means the copyright and/or 
trademark owners who have contributed Open Game Content; 
(b)”Derivative Material” means copyrighted material including 
derivative works and translations (including into other computer 
languages), potation, modification, correction, addition, extension, 
upgrade, improvement, compilation, abridgment or other form in 
which an existing work may be recast, transformed or adapted; (c) 
“Distribute” means to reproduce, license, rent, lease, sell, broadcast, 
publicly display, transmit or otherwise distribute; (d)”Open Game 
Content” means the game mechanic and includes the methods, 
procedures, processes and routines to the extent such content 
does not embody the Product Identity and is an enhancement 
over the prior art and any additional content clearly identified as 
Open Game Content by the Contributor, and means any work 
covered by this License, including translations and derivative works 
under copyright law, but specifically excludes Product Identity. (e) 
“Product Identity” means product and product line names, logos 
and identifying marks including trade dress; artifacts; creatures 
characters; stories, storylines, plots, thematic elements, dialogue, 
incidents, language, artwork, symbols, designs, depictions, 
likenesses, formats, poses, concepts, themes and graphic, 
photographic and other visual or audio representations; names 
and descriptions of characters, spells, enchantments, personalities, 
teams, personas, likenesses and special abilities; places, locations, 
environments, creatures, equipment, magical or supernatural 
abilities or effects, logos, symbols, or graphic designs; and any 
other trademark or registered trademark clearly identified as 
Product identity by the owner of the Product Identity, and which 
specifically excludes the Open Game Content; (f) “Trademark” 
means the logos, names, mark, sign, motto, designs that are used 
by a Contributor to identify itself or its products or the associated 
products contributed to the Open Game License by the Contributor 
(g) “Use”, “Used” or “Using” means to use, Distribute, copy, edit, 
format, modify, translate and otherwise create Derivative Material 
of Open Game Content. (h) “You” or “Your” means the licensee in 
terms of this agreement.
2. The License: This License applies to any Open Game Content 
that contains a notice indicating that the Open Game Content may 
only be Used under and in terms of this License. You must affix such 
a notice to any Open Game Content that you Use. No terms may 
be added to or subtracted from this License except as described by 
the License itself. No other terms or conditions may be applied to 
any Open Game Content distributed using this License. 
3. Offer and Acceptance: By Using the Open Game Content You 
indicate Your acceptance of the terms of 
this License. 
4. Grant and Consideration: In consideration for agreeing to 
use this License, the Contributors grant You a perpetual, worldwide, 
royalty-free, nonexclusive license with the exact terms of this 
License to Use, the Open Game Content. 
5. Representation of Authority to Contribute: If You are 
contributing original material as Open Game Content, You 
represent that Your Contributions are Your original creation and/
or You have sufficient rights to grant the rights conveyed by this 
License. 
6. Notice of License Copyright: You must update the 
COPYRIGHT NOTICE portion of this License to include the exact text 
of the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any Open Game Content You are 
copying, modifying or distributing, and You must add the title, the 
copyright date, and the copyright holder’s name to the COPYRIGHT 
NOTICE of any original Open Game Content you Distribute. 
7. Use of Product Identity: You agree not to Use any Product 
Identity, including as an indication as to compatibility, except as 
expressly licensed in another, independent Agreement with the 
owner of each element of that Product Identity. You agree not to 
indicate compatibility or co-adaptability with any Trademark or 
Registered Trademark in conjunction with a work containing Open 
Game Content except as expressly licensed in another, independent 
Agreement with the owner of such Trademark or Registered 
Trademark. The use of any Product Identity in Open Game Content 
does not constitute a challenge to the ownership of that Product 
Identity. The owner of any Product Identity used in Open Game 
Content shall retain all rights, title and interest in and to that 
Product Identity.
8. Identification: If you distribute Open Game Content You must 
clearly indicate which portions of the work that you are distributing 
are Open Game Content. 
9. Updating the License: Wizards or its designated Agents 
may publish updated versions of this License. You may use any 
authorized version of this License to copy, modify and distribute 
any Open Game Content originally distributed under any version of 
this License. 
10. Copy of this License: You MUST include a copy of this 
License with every copy of the Open Game Content You Distribute. 
11. Use of Contributor Credits: You may not market or 
advertise the Open Game Content using the name of any 
Contributor unless You have written permission from the 
Contributor to do so. 
12. Inability to Comply: If it is impossible for You to comply with 
any of the terms of this License with respect to some or all of the 
Open Game Content due to statute, judicial order, or governmental 
regulation then You may not Use any Open Game Material so 
affected. 
13. Termination: This License will terminate automatically if You 
fail to comply with all terms herein and fail to cure such breach 
within 30 days of becoming aware of the breach. All sublicenses 
shall survive the termination of this License. 
14. Reformation: If any provision of this License is held to be 
unenforceable, such provision shall be reformed only to the extent 
necessary to make it enforceable. 
15. COPYRIGHT NOTICE 
Open Game License v 1.0a Copyright 2000, Wizards of the 
Coast, Inc. 
System Reference Document 5.0 Copyright 2016, Wizards 
of the Coast, Inc.; Authors Mike Mearls, Jeremy Crawford, Chris 
Perkins, Rodney Thompson, Peter Lee, James Wyatt, Robert J. 
Schwalb, Bruce R. Cordell, Chris Sims, and Steve Townshend, based 
on original material by E. Gary Gygax and Dave Arneson.
Tome of Beasts. Copyright 2016, Open Design, LLC.; Authors 
Chris Harris, Dan Dillon, Rodrigo Garcia Carmona, and Wolfgang 
Baur.
Pride of the Mushroom Queen. Author: Mike Welham. © 2018 
Open Design LLC.