--- PAGE 1 ---
32
elves

--- PAGE 3 ---
CREDITS
Design: Robert Fairbanks, Jeremy Hochhalter, Sarah Madsen
Development & Editing: Scott Gable
Art Direction & Graphic Design: Marc Radle
Cover Art: Pedro Potier 
Back Cover Art: Karl Waller
Interior Art: Pedro Potier, Karl Waller
Publisher: Wolfgang Baur
Kobold Press, Midgard, Open Design, and their associated logos are trademarks of Open Design.
Product Identity: The following items are hereby identified as Product Identity, as defined in the Open Game License version 
1.0a, Section 1(e), and are not Open Content: All trademarks, registered trademarks, proper names (characters, place names, 
new deities, etc.), dialogue, plots, story elements, locations, characters, artwork, sidebars, and trade dress. 
(Elements that have previously been designated as Open Game Content are not included in this declaration.)
Open Game Content: The Open Content in this book includes the birding shaft and lasso equipment, the cedarskin cuirass, 
saiga helm, snowshoe rabbit snowboots, and wind kukri magic items, the brinemaiden and water wight monsters, and the 
breeze walker, dreamstride, oneiromancy, phantasm, and windblown spells.
 No other portion of this work may be reproduced in any form without permission. 
© 2022 Open Design LLC
www.koboldpress.com
TABLE OF CONTENTS
TM
“Mysteries of the Lost Elven Courts” by Sarah Madsen ................................................................... 2
“Windrunner Elves” by Robert Fairbanks ........................................................................................ 13
“Fabled Elvish Magic Items” by Jeremy Hochhalter ..................................................................... 21

--- PAGE 4 ---
2
CLOUD DRAGON COURT 
(TOMIERRAN FOREST)
To the east of the Arbonesse lies the 
Tomierran Forest. Once the home of not 
one but two elven courts, the Tomierran 
now hides more secrets than it gives 
answers. Nearest to the Greater Duchy 
of Morgau, the forest’s proximity to the 
undead empire means it sees more than its 
fair share of incursions, but its stewardship 
under Saintmistress Rowanmantle keeps the 
undead from encroaching too far. 
Overshadowed by the infamous ruins of 
Thorn, the remnants of the Cloud Dragon 
Court are far less flashy. Paired with its 
seclusion deep in the forest, it has seen far 
fewer tomb raiders and adventurers than the 
former elven capital. Even those that know 
of the court’s existence are hesitant to make 
the journey—the risks of delving into the 
Tomierran are great indeed, and the rewards 
are unknown. 
Triple Spires. During its height, the Cloud 
Dragon Court held three main spires. These 
thin towers stretched ever upward, reaching 
far past the tops of the trees, a marvel of elven 
T
he elven courts once spanned much of 
Midgard, shining and elegant in their 
splendor. With the passing of the Great 
Retreat, many of these once-grand courts were 
left abandoned, slowly relenting to the passing 
of time and decay. Some of these courts 
still house residents of one type or another, 
whether Arbonesse exiles that refused to leave 
their homes, servants who were abandoned 
when the Last Horn sounded, or unnamed 
entities that have moved into the abandoned 
halls like hermit crabs into an empty shell. 
The elves built their cities in wild and 
beautiful places. With access to the fey roads, 
few elves worried about passage overland, so 
courts that were tricky to reach during their 
heyday are practically impossible to approach 
now. These forests are filled with deadly and 
terrifying threats, and the roads are choked 
by centuries of undergrowth. The elves’ lands 
have been reclaimed by nature, by the unquiet 
dead, or by their own descendants. Mysteries 
abound within these lost courts, and rumors 
spin ever wilder tales of what lies within the 
ruined grandeur of the elven holdings. 
For more on elven courts, see Warlock 7: 
Fey Courts.
MYSTERIES OF THE LOST 
ELVEN COURTS 
by Sarah Madsen

--- PAGE 5 ---
3
construction and magic. The three spires 
were called the Star Spire, the Moon Spire, 
and the Sun Spire, and they formed a perfect 
triangle at the center of the city. 
Each of these spires contained dozens of 
small chambers and a long spiral staircase 
that terminated at an open cupola with a 
domed cap. Here it was possible to look out 
over the entirety of the Tomierran. On a clear 
day, one could glimpse the Nieder Straits 
to the north past the twisting branches of 
Holda’s Tree. 
The spires were connected by the three 
long sides of the Hastate Conservatory, a 
soaring glass spire atop a triangular white-
stone courtyard. Elves moved through these 
hallways in quiet contemplation or picnicked 
in the courtyard with the Dreamer’s Cloud 
hovering between the spires far above.
The day the elves left the halls of the Cloud 
Dragon Court and took their magic with 
them, the spires collapsed to the earth far 
below them, shattering stone and glass alike. 
All that now remains of the fallen towers is 
a forest of debris and three jagged stumps of 
white stone. 
DREAM MAGIC SPELLS
Dream magic uses the malleability of dreams 
to harness and channel arcane power.
DREAMSTRIDE
3rd-Level Illusion (Dream, Ritual Only) | 
Druid, Wizard
Casting Time: 10 minutes 
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You reach out with your consciousness and 
step into the dreams of another creature 
in order to view a memory or gather 
information. The creature must be on the 
same plane of existence as you and have a 
minimum Intelligence score of 7. If the target 
is not asleep or in meditation (in the case 
of elves or similar races) when the spell is 
cast, the spell fails. This spell has no effect on 
constructs or undead. 
When you cast the spell, you enter your 
target’s dream, and you view the events as an 
invisible third party. The creature is unaware 
of your presence, and you cannot interact 
with the dream in any way other than the 
method listed below.
As an action, you can reach out your 
consciousness and attempt to influence the 
course of the dream. For example, you may 
FORGOTTEN SCHOOL: DREAM MAGIC 
The arcane practitioners of the Cloud Dragon 
Court were the progenitors of a lost school of 
elven high magic: dream magic. Dream magic 
allowed the elves to use dreams for a multitude 
of purposes: divination through oneiromancy, 
research and espionage through dreamstride, 
or even using a phantasm to assassinate an 
enemy from a distance while they lie dreaming.
Given elves’ non-slumbering nature, dream 
magic was incredibly difficult to master, and 
many elven mages thought it folly to dedicate 
so much time and study to an art that may 
well be out of the reach of their kind. Others 
thought it a passing fad or a fringe offshoot of 
liminal magic that would be absorbed into other 
spellcraft or eventually fade away. Indeed, the 
elves of the Cloud Dragon Court may never 
have created, practiced, or mastered dream 
magic without the aid of a particularly powerful 
ally: Kalikamorea, the Dreamer. 
Few artifacts or records remain of dream 
magic, but a scroll or book may be found within 
the broken ruins of the Cloud Dragon Court.

--- PAGE 6 ---
4
cause something new to appear or cause the 
tone of the dream to change to a nightmare 
(or vice-versa) or influence a “character” 
in the dream other than the target to act a 
certain way. When you attempt to influence 
the dream, your target must succeed on a 
Wisdom saving throw against your spell save 
DC. On a failed save, your attempt to alter the 
dream is successful. On a successful save, you 
are immediately ejected from the dream as 
the dreamer awakens. 
For the duration of the spell, your body 
lies in repose in the location you cast the 
spell. You are blind and deaf to your body’s 
surroundings, though you can feel and are 
aware if you take damage. If your body 
is moved, the spell ends. If your target is 
awakened, the spell ends. 
ONEIROMANCY
1st-Level Divination (Dream, Ritual Only) | 
Cleric, Druid, Wizard
Casting Time: 10 minutes 
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (incense and a bit of 
mushroom)
Duration: Concentration, 4 or 6 hours 
(see below)
Dreams can be gateways to understanding, 
and you can induce such prophetic and 
insightful dreams in yourself and others. 
You touch a willing creature of your choice. 
The creature immediately falls into an 
enchanted dream state and remains for an 
entire long rest (4 or 6 hours, depending 
on their race) unless awakened or if they 
choose to end the spell early. During this 
long rest, they experience dreams and visions 
centering around an event or question of 
their choice, specified at the casting of the 
spell. The dreams may be literal, or they 
may be wrapped in symbolism, omens, 
and metaphor and left to the dreamer to 
interpret. This dream state counts as sleep or 
meditation for the purposes of a long rest.
If the target’s sleep is interrupted, the 
dreams induced by this spell end. The target 
may still complete a long rest and gain the 
benefits of said rest, but they do not return to 
their previous dreams. 
Elves and other creatures with immunity 
to magical sleep choose whether or not to be 
affected by this spell.
This spell has no effect on constructs or 
undead.
PHANTASM
6th-Level Illusion (Dream, Ritual Only) | 
Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard
Casting Time: 10 minutes 
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a sympathetic item 
from the target, a pinch of grave dirt, and 
5,000 gp worth of powdered sapphire, 
which the spell consumes)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You reach out with your consciousness and 
influence the dreams of another creature 
The creature must be on the same plane 
of existence as you and have a minimum 
Intelligence score of 7. If the target is not 
asleep or in meditation (in the case of elves 
or similar races) when the spell is cast, 
the spell fails. This spell has no effect on 
constructs or undead.
Your target must succeed on a Wisdom 
saving throw against your spell save DC. On a 
failure, their dream becomes a nightmare, and 
they take 4d10 psychic damage. On a success, 
they take half as much damage, the spell ends, 
and you take the same amount of psychic 
damage as you are shoved from the dream. 
At the start of each of their turns, the target 
repeats the saving throw, taking an additional 
4d10 damage on a failed save. Once the target 
succeeds on their saving throw, they are 
immune to this spell for the next 7 days. The 
target cannot wake themselves, but if they are 
awakened by an outside force or if they fall to 
0 hit points, the spell ends.

--- PAGE 7 ---
5
If the target succeeds on their saving throw, 
they may attempt a DC 20 Wisdom (Insight) 
check. On a success, if they are familiar with 
you, they recognize you as the attacker. If they 
are unfamiliar with you, they do not recognize 
you, though you may seem strangely familiar 
if the two of you meet at a later time, and you 
may even evoke feelings of unease. 
For the duration of the spell, your body 
lies in repose in the location you cast the 
spell. You are blind and deaf to your body’s 
surroundings, though you can feel and are 
aware if you take damage. If your body 
is moved, the spell ends. If your target is 
awakened, the spell ends.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell 
at 7th level or higher, you deal an additional 
1d10 psychic damage per spell slot above 6th 
(5d10 at 7th level, 6d10 at 8th level, 7d10 at 
9th level). 
KALIKAMOREA, THE DREAMER
Between the Triple Spires hovered a cloud 
over a mile in diameter, its hazy edges just 
out of reach of the cupolas at their tops. The 
cloud’s appearance, whether fluffy and white 
or dark and stormy, depended entirely on 
the mood of its inhabitant: an ancient cloud 
dragon known as Kalikamorea, the Dreamer. 
Kalikamorea was already ancient when she 
came to the Tomierran, and history is unclear 
if she made her home there and the elves 
built their city around her or if the elves had 
already established their home within the 
Tomierran when she arrived. Whatever the 
case, the cloud dragon and the court beneath 
her existed in harmony for ages. 
Kalikamorea rarely left her cloud. Those who 
wished an audience would climb to the apex 
of one of the spires to petition the dragon. 
If she were in a welcoming mood or if the 
elf was one of her favorites (and make no 
mistake, she had her favorites), Kalikamorea 
would initiate a telepathic bond between the 
two. Conversations with the Dreamer could 
last for hours or even days, and often the 
elf involved would meditate far longer than 
necessary once they descended the spire, 
their exhausted mind struggling to process 
everything they had learned from the dragon.
When the elves left for the Summer Lands 
and the Triple Spires collapsed, Kalikamorea’s 
cloud dispersed, and she disappeared. Some 
claim she was invited to accompany the elves 
on their exodus, some believe she fled across 
the lands to the east, and still others whisper 
that perhaps she never existed in the first 
place—merely a collective dream of the elves. 
Tears of the Dreamer. Scattered throughout 
the ruins of the Cloud Dragon Court are 
strange crystals. About the size of a man’s 
palm, these pear-shaped gems are cold to 
the touch and faceted as if cut and polished, 
though they’ve never felt the bite of a 
grindstone. The gemstones are usually found 
in shades of blue, green, or white, though 
reds, oranges, and yellows have also been 
discovered. There is only one black stone 
known in existence. The jewels are of pristine 
clarity and flawless in every aspect. 
These crystals are known as the Tears of the 
Dreamer and hold memories and magical 
essence within them. The jewels can be 
ground into a fine gem dust and used in place 
of spell components.
Additionally, if a PC studies the depths 
of one, they gain access to a memory 
locked within. Glimpsed in fleeting images, 
half-heard words, and vague emotional 
impressions, the memory is from one of the 
former residents of the Cloud Dragon Court, 
typically an elf (though it’s not unheard of to 
glimpse the memory of a servant). Each holds 
at least one memory, though some have been 
found with multiple related memories. 
Experiencing a particularly vivid memory 
can convey knowledge to the viewer, and 
in some cases, the viewer has temporarily 
gained a particular skill, though the working 
knowledge fades fairly quickly.

--- PAGE 8 ---
6
So far, none have been found 
to hold a memory from 
Kalikamorea, though scholars 
and treasure hunters alike 
hold out hope to one 
day find such a stone. 
TEARS OF THE 
DREAMER 
Wondrous Item, 
Rarity Varies by Color 
This tear-shaped gemstone 
is roughly the size of an 
adult human’s palm. Though 
cold to the touch, it hums 
with mystical vitality, and 
fleeting images can be 
glimpsed along its surface. 
A creature may spend 
a short rest meditating on 
the images within. During their 
meditation, they experience a memory 
held within the Tear, as determined 
by the GM. When they complete the 
meditation, the creature gains one 
proficiency, as noted in the table below. 
This benefit lasts for eight hours. Only one 
creature may gain this benefit at a time, and the 
item cannot be used in this way again until the 
next dawn. 
Additionally, a Tear can be ground into a fine 
gem dust that can be used in place of the spell 
components of equivalent monetary value. Doing 
so destroys the Tear. The worth of the gem dust 
d100
GEM COLOR
RARITY
SKILL
VALUE
1–20
Blue
Rare
Perception or Investigation
5,000 gp
21–40
Green
Rare
Insight or Deception
5,000 gp
41–60
White
Rare
Medicine or Nature
5,000 gp
61–69
Yellow
Very Rare
Sleight of Hand, Acrobatics, or Forgery Kit
10,000 gp
70–78
Orange
Very Rare
Alchemists Tools, Arcana, Martial Ranged 
Weapons
10,000 gp
79–87
Red
Very Rare
Thieves’ Tools, Stealth, Medium Armor
10,000 gp
88–96
Purple
Very Rare
Navigator’s Tools, Survival, Martial Melee 
Weapons
10,000 gp
97–100
Black
Legendary
Any three proficiencies (player’s choice)
50,000 gp
TEARS OF THE DREAMER
is noted in the chart below. If the spell consumes 
the spell components, it instead consumes the 
equivalent value of dust.

--- PAGE 9 ---
7
SUMMER GARDENS 
(GENNECKA FOREST)
The Summer Gardens, also known as 
Osilessidra after its queen, lie hidden deep 
within the Gennecka Forest. Travel to the city 
during its height was daunting for those not 
skilled in the arcane. The only reliable way to 
reach the city was via fey roads, and traveling 
the trails through the forest was a feat only 
undertaken by the most determined. This was 
by design, for while Queen Osilessi did not 
outright ban those not of elven blood from 
her realm, she looked for more subtle ways to 
discourage them from entering her borders 
unless specifically invited.
Once a retreat for the elves of Midgard, 
Osilessidra was a city of pristine gardens, 
greenhouses, and conservatories of all 
types, filled with carefully cultivated (and 
heavily protected) plants from the Summer 
Lands themselves, offering respite to those 
homesick for the Elflands. The city also 
boasted vast libraries, filled with magical 
and mundane tomes of all sorts. Making 
the trek to Osilessidra was dangerous, but 
many scholars deemed the quest worth the 
risk for even the barest of glimpses of the 
vast knowledge held within its marbled halls. 
Study was popular here, not just of literature 
but of the arts of all kinds, and it was not 
uncommon for elven bards to spend several 
seasons wandering the halls and gardens in 
the process of honing their craft or to find 
luminaries reclining on elegant cushions, 
sketching the blossoms and each other.
Now, the Summer Gardens are but a wild 
and crumbling shadow of what they once 
were. Much of the grounds have fallen to 
time and have been reclaimed by the forest, 
save for the few chambers still tended to by 
the Steadfast. 
Alabaster Libraries. Maintained by the 
Steadfast, the Alabaster Libraries are housed 
in the west wing of the queen’s palace. The 
rooms themselves are kept locked, opened 
once a day when the gnomes enter to dust 
shelves, polish furniture, and tend to the 
tomes that line the walls. The gnomes that 
work the Alabaster Libraries know exactly 
what books reside within, their precise 
location, and their condition, and notice 
immediately if something is out of place or 
otherwise amiss. 
Alongside the treasures of knowledge, 
the Alabaster Libraries contain multitudes 
of trinkets and treasures in the form 
of paintings, sculptures, ancient maps, 
bookends, and priceless tchotchkes displayed 
upon the shelves. Any one of these could 
fetch a high price to the right collector, but 
retrieving it out from under the nose of 
the protective Steadfast and getting back 
out of the Gennecka unscathed would be a 
challenge indeed. 
Gardens. Many of the carefully tended 
flora from the Summer Lands have long 
since withered to dust, but rumors persist in 
certain circles that rare and wondrous plants 
can be found in the ruins of the Summer 
Gardens. Rumors also claim that monstrous 
carnivorous plants roam the grounds and 
are happy to make a meal of any wayward 
traveler. Nonetheless, some botanists and 
alchemists are willing to pay a hefty amount 
of coin to adventurers willing to brave the 
risks to bring back cuttings or live plants. 
Within the gardens is an elaborate hedge 
maze of rose bushes that has somehow 
remained pristine despite the passing of 
centuries, a twin to the Prickling Maze of the 
Court of Roses in the Arbonesse. Unlike the 
roses found in the Prickling Maze though, 
the roses here are not sentient, nor do they 
speak. They do, however, give off a heady 
fragrance that can bewilder and charm those 
not of elven blood. Any creature who enters 
the maze may find themselves lost, not just 
confounded by the twists and turns of the 
pathway but beguiled by the roses themselves.

--- PAGE 10 ---
8
Though the Blood Duke Rüzgar, ruler of 
the nearby province of Zaldiri, is keen on the 
forest, an annual tribute of rare mushroom 
elixirs from the Steadfast to sooth the ancient 
cave dragon’s old battle scars—along with 
the arrows and spells of the Gennecka’s other 
inhabitants—keep the morza satisfied for now. 
Treasury. Servants and their children 
were not the only things left behind by 
the elves when they left Midgard. In many 
cases, anything too difficult to transport 
was abandoned—including vast treasures. 
It is rumored that, hidden somewhere on 
the grounds of the Summer Gardens, is 
the treasury, still full of all the priceless art 
and treasures the residents were forced to 
abandoned. But the elves built their locks to 
last, and their traps were deadly. 
THE STEADFAST
When the Last Horn sounded and the 
Great Retreat began, the elves left much 
behind, including their gnomish and halfling 
servitors. Many of these servants ventured out 
into the wide world beyond, embracing new 
opportunities, but a few remained behind 
to maintain what they could of their former 
homes in case the elves ever returned. Even 
many of these departed the empty estates after 
some time, realizing the futility of serving 
masters that had long since abandoned them.
Though generations have passed since 
the elves left Midgard, the descendants of 
gnomish servants still remain within the 
Summer Gardens. They call themselves 
the Steadfast, clinging to their duties and 
loyalties in a way they see as honorable and 
dedicated. Despite their determination and 
the occasional addition to their ranks, the 
numbers of Steadfast have dwindled over the 
centuries. Currently, they only have enough 
manpower to maintain a few of the gardens’ 
chambers, and they focus their attentions on 
the Alabaster Libraries, the throne room, and 
the queen’s chambers. Everything else has 
fallen into disrepair. 
WILLOW COURT 
OF THE WINEWOOD
A relatively small court, the halls of the 
Willow Court rested in the southeastern 
portion of the Winewood in Rumela. Nestled 
up against the protective wall formed by 
the Griffoncrags, the Willow Court enjoyed 
the fruits of the forest and the mountains 
alike. Orchards were cultivated within the 
Winewood. Terraced vineyards were built 
up the steep slopes of the Griffoncrags while 
precious metals were pulled from mines 
at the base of the mountains and griffons 
roosted in their peaks. While the bounty from 
their trees didn’t quite match the harvests in 
the Summer Gardens, their wines never quite 
lived up to those created in Dornig, and their 
griffons were never quite as grand as the ones 
found in the Margreve, the Willow Court 
nonetheless carved out their own name. 
When the Mharoti claimed Rumela for 
themselves, the borders of the Winewood 
shrank inward as the dragonkin felled 
the trees along the edges for their new 
construction. Still, the depths of the forest 
remain mostly untouched and unexplored, 
save for the druids who make their homes 
within. But even they avoid the ruins of the 
Willow Court, concerning themselves more 
with the dragonkin at their eastern and 
southern borders. 
GRIFFONS OF THE WILLOW COURT
The Griffoncrags are aptly named. In the 
warmer months, it is not unusual to see young 
griffons wheeling and playing amidst the 
thermal updrafts or to spot a solitary adult or 
pair hunting far afield. The golden griffons of 
the Griffoncrags are smaller and faster than 
the breeds found in the Margreve or Zobeck. 
The ruins of the Willow Court hold the 
remains of stables and rookeries, now empty 
of anything but dust and mold. The griffon 
riders of the Willow Court often traveled 
to the Griffon Court to train and then

--- PAGE 11 ---
9
returned to train others. The griffons of the 
Willow Court were kept more for sport and 
pleasure than for protection though. While 
remnants of griffon barding and polearms 
for griffon‑mounted combat can be found, 
the majority of the saddles and bridals that 
remain are sleeker and more ornate, crafted 
for comfort and prestige rather than battle. 
WILLOW COURT WINE
Made from the grapes grown on the western 
slopes of the Griffoncrags and fermented in 
clear mountain spring water, Willow Court 
wine was once enjoyed by the elves of the 
Winewood in vast amounts. One of the few 
exports from the city, it was enjoyed even 
as far as the Griffon Court in the Margreve 
Forest (though many of the Griffon Court 
preferred the sweeter wine made in Thorn). 
The vintners of the Willow Court each had 
their own enchantments that they wove 
into their fermentation vats and aging 
barrels, trade secrets that maintained proper 
temperature, pressure, and sugar levels to 
create the perfect wine. 
When the Great Retreat occurred, much 
of the wine was left behind, either in barrels 
in the warehouses tucked at the base of the 
Griffoncrags or in bottles in the wine cellars 
throughout the households of the Willow 
Court. Though much of this wine has been 
plundered already, finding a forgotten bottle 
or a hidden cask might still be possible. A 
bottle of such recovered wine would make 
a fine gift to an elf of any sufficient age and 
memory or to a noble of discerning taste. 
Wild Fermentation. Sometime after 
the Great Retreat, some of the enchanted 
fermentation vats and aging barrels were 
destroyed when the roof of the building they 
were stored in collapsed. The enchantments 
seeped from the shattered wood along with 
the liquid within, permeating the soil and 
water and releasing their spores into the air. 
The circle of druids who now reside within 
the Winewood (see Warlock 7: Fey Courts) 
utilize the forest’s unique environment to 
their advantage, but outsiders may find 
the atmosphere (not to mention the smell) 
off-putting. Additionally, foodstuffs brought 
within the Winewood, especially fresh fruits, 
quickly go sour and become inedible unless 
magically protected. 
LOST ARBONESSE
Unlike the other lost elven courts listed here, 
Lost Arbonesse was not abandoned but 
destroyed. The tales tell that more than 400 
years ago, Isonade, the great beast, rose from 
the depths of the Uttermost Sea and dragged 
the northwestern portion of the Arbonesse 
into the sea. Now, the ruins of the court lie 
beneath the waves as the stumps of the great 
trees and shattered remnants of its glorious 
structures dot the coastline. 
But what waits within the drowned elven 
city is a mystery to most. Sailing the waters 
is hazardous at best, for the hidden ruins 
can pierce the hull of even the most cautious 
ship. Spirits of the unquiet dead and strange 
creatures from the depths haunt the coastline 
and the waters themselves, quickly stymying 
any attempted excursions. 
The few elves in Midgard that remember 
Lost Arbonesse before it fell to the sea refuse 
to speak of it, whether out of fear or sorrow, 
and seem uninterested in making any major 
efforts to explore the ruins. Better to let the 
ghosts (and their memories) rest. 
DROWNED TRINKETS
Strange treasures often turn up on the 
coastline where Lost Arbonesse sank. 
Shattered pieces of furniture, broken trinkets, 
and crumpled odds and ends all make their 
way to the sand even now, centuries after the 
city’s destruction.
The strangest, and possibly saddest though, 
are the bits of sea glass that roll onto the 
shore, revealed each day by the receding tide. 
This glass—not just blues and greens but 
vivid reds, purples, yellows, and oranges—are

--- PAGE 12 ---
10
the remnants of the elaborate stained-glass 
windows that once resided in the city’s grand 
halls, and they glitter and gleam in the sand 
all along the coast. However, these beautiful, 
almost organic-looking baubles are shunned 
by the locals. It’s considered bad luck to 
take them from the shore. More than one 
story circulates of an elf or elfmarked that 
collected a piece of the tumbled glass as a 
memento to a lost loved one and was later 
driven mad by haunted whisperings or found 
drowned by saltwater in their own bed, 
nowhere near the ocean. 
BEACON FOR THE UNDEAD
The destruction of Lost Arbonesse 
was an act so terrible, so tragic, it sent 
shockwaves through the region and 
fundamentally altered the land and its arcane 
underpinnings. Countless undead were 
created that day, not only from the citizens 
and visitors that drowned beneath the waves 
but by a massive influx of pain, sorrow, and 
rage. The coastline and sunken city teem 
with ghosts, zombies, and other undead, 
both those that were created there and those 
that have been drawn to the region like 
moths to a flame. 
Some of these undead are much like the 
others any adventurer would find at all 
points of the map. Some, however, bear 
unique features that have only been seen in 
the area of Lost Arbonesse. 
Water Wights and Brinemaidens. Many of 
the undead found in Lost Arbonesse display 
similarities to the more intelligent undead 
found throughout Midgard, but they have 
an unnerving affinity for the water in and 
around the ruins of the elven city. They bear 
elven features, and some even wear scraps of 
armor said to bear the crest of the houses lost 
beneath the sea. 
WATER WIGHT
An undead elf, draped in the rotting trappings 
of a long-lost civilization, shambles toward 
you through the surf. 
Similar in disposition and behavior 
to common wights, the water wight is 
nonetheless unique to Lost Arbonesse. 
Wielding rusted and rotting weapons of 
the lost elvish culture, the water wight is a 
vengeful and unforgiving foe. 
Lost Honor. The water wights were once 
soldiers of the great elvish houses of what is 
now Lost Arbonesse. They rage against their 
helplessness at the fate of their city and their 
loved ones, and seethe at the injustice. They 
continue to mindlessly protect their houses 
and lands, with little regard to the fact that 
they—and everyone they knew—are dead. 
They cannot be reasoned with, unable to face 
the truth of their tragic end. 
Undead Nature. A water wight doesn’t 
require air, food, drink, or sleep.
WATER WIGHT
Medium Undead, Neutral Evil
Armor Class 14 (studded leather)
Hit Points 45 (6d8 + 18)
Speed 30 ft., swim 30 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
16 (+3)	 13 (+1)	 16 (+3)	 10 (+0)	 13 (+1)	 15 
(+2)
Saving Throws Con +5
Skills Perception +3, Stealth +3
Damage Resistances necrotic; bludgeoning, 
piercing, and slashing from nonmagical 
attacks
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 13
Languages the languages it knew in life
Challenge 3 (700 XP)      Proficiency Bonus +2
Aversion to Dry Ground. When the water 
wight is on dry ground, it has disadvantage 
on attack rolls.

--- PAGE 13 ---
11
ACTIONS
Multiattack. The water wight makes two 
Longsword attacks. It can use Drown in place 
of one of these attacks. 
Longsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, 
reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d8 + 3) slashing 
damage or 8 (1d10 + 3) slashing damage if 
used with two hands. 
Drown. The water wight locks eyes with its 
enemy, conjuring within its target the raging 
waters of the sea. The target must make a 
DC 14 Wisdom saving throw. On a failure, 
salt water fills the target’s mouth, throat, and 
lungs, and the target has no breath left and 
immediately begins to drown. The target 
may repeat the saving throw at the end of 
their turn. On a success, the effect ends. The 
effect ends if the target or the water wight is 
reduced to 0 hit points. A target that dies in 
this fashion rises 24 hours later as a zombie 
under the water wight’s control. The wight 
can have no more than six zombies under its 
control at one time.

--- PAGE 14 ---
12
BRINEMAIDEN
A ghostly figure of an elven woman floats 
toward you through the water, its empty 
eye sockets fixed on yours, its mouth open 
impossibly wide in an unearthly wail. 
Cousin to banshees and drowned maidens, 
the brinemaiden is the lost spirit of an elven 
woman drowned within Lost Arbonesse. She 
floats along the coastline and even through 
the submerged ruins, retracing steps she took 
often in life. A brinemaiden is an angry and 
frightened spirit, lashing out at any nearby 
living creature in her confusion. 
Bound to Baubles. A brinemaiden need 
not be confined to the place of her death 
and may be bound instead to an item from 
her life. A trinket, a piece of jewelry, or 
even the last thing she saw as she drowned 
can be the tether for her rage-filled soul. 
Many brinemaidens are bound to bits of 
Lost Arbonesse sea glass, as the shattered 
remnants of stained-glass windows filled 
the swirling waters around them as they 
drowned. Individuals that wander away 
from the ruins of Lost Arbonesse with one 
of these prizes often inadvertently brings a 
brinemaiden with them. 
Undead Nature. A brinemaiden doesn’t 
require air, food, drink, or sleep.
BRINEMAIDEN
Medium Undead, Chaotic Evil
Armor Class 12
Hit Points 58 (13d8)
Speed 0 ft., fly 40 ft. (hover), swim 40 ft. 
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
1 (−5)	 14 (+2)	 10 (+0)	 12 (+1)	 11 (+0)	 17 (+3)
Saving Throws Wis +2, Cha +5
Damage Resistances acid, fire, lightning, 
thunder; bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing 
from nonmagical weapons
Damage Immunities cold, necrotic, poison
Condition Immunities charmed, exhaustion, 
frightened, grappled, paralyzed, petrified, 
poisoned, prone, restrained
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 12
Languages the languages she knew in life.
Challenge 4 (1,100 XP)    Proficiency Bonus +2
Detect Life. The brinemaiden can magically 
sense the presence of creatures up to 5 miles 
away that aren’t undead or constructs. She 
knows the general direction they’re in but not 
exact locations. 
Incorporeal Movement. The brinemaiden can 
move through other creatures and objects as 
if they were difficult terrain. It takes 5 (1d10) 
force damage if it ends its turn inside an 
object.
ACTIONS
Corrupting Touch. Melee Spell Attack: +4 to 
hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (3d6 + 2) 
necrotic damage. 
Calls of the Lost. Each creature within 60 feet 
of the brinemaiden must succeed on a DC 13 
Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, they 
must use all of their movement and must 
take the dash action to move directly toward 
and into the nearest body of water, as the 
haunting wails of the drowned call out to 
them. The creature may take no other actions, 
bonus actions, or reactions. The target may 
repeat the saving throw at the end of their 
turn. A creature who reaches the water while 
under these effects swims (or walks, if they 
cannot swim) their full speed directly away 
from the shore until the effect ends. If there 
is no water nearby, the creature spends their 
turn wracked with mournful sobs. 
Wail (1/day). The banshee releases a mournful 
wail, provided that she isn’t in sunlight. This 
wail has no effect on constructs and undead. 
All other creatures within 30 feet of her that 
can hear her must make a DC 13 Constitution 
saving throw. On a failure, the creature drops 
to 0 hit points. On a success, a creature takes 
10 (3d6) psychic damage.

--- PAGE 15 ---
13
E
lusive, eccentric, and unpredictable, 
windrunner elves have quietly traversed 
Midgard’s vast central grasslands for 
millennia. These diminutive nomads 
roaming the steppes and plains are thought 
to originally hail from the elven capital of 
Sephaya, long since abandoned during the 
Great Retreat. When the Sephayan nobility 
withdrew, they fled to the Arbonesse 
along the fey roads. However, legends hint 
some were denied sanctuary, and those 
numbers, with households and retinues 
in tow, continued onward, disappearing 
into the then-uncharted east. Whether this 
second migration was by force or by choice 
remains a mystery. Many scholars suggest 
windrunners are the descendants of those 
unsettled elven expatriates. Less popular 
lines of research have led experts to suggest 
windrunners may have origins nearer to 
the mountains of Beldestan or points even 
farther east. Aggressively autonomous, the 
windrunner clans have little love for the 
remnants of the scattered elves. The notion 
of owing allegiance to the elves of the west is 
considered offensive, and outright hostility 
can result at the mere suggestion of fidelity 
to the Imperatrix of the Grand Duchy or the 
River Lords of the Arbonesse. 
WINDRUNNER ELVES  
by Robert Fairbanks
After the Great Retreat. Several windrunner 
traditions claim that sometime after the 
Great Retreat and their expulsion from the 
Arbonesse, another series of schisms formed 
among the fleeing Sephayan refugees. Some 
academics cite treachery and scandal among a 
still panicky, opportunistic Sephayan nobility. 
Others speculate the approach to Demon 
Mountain as somehow a magical or psychic 
initiator to the four migrations. Even in those 
times, the mountain was an ill-omened place. 
From far afield, the great Sephayan sorcerers 
and wizards could sense the mountain as a 
place of vast and tumultuous energies, which 
only added to the elven nobilities’ foreboding 
and unrest. In either case, a third elven 
dispersal had begun in the shadow of what 
would later be called Demon Mountain.
The Windrunner Clans. Four great 
houses now parted ways. Some skirted the 
Wormwood, disappearing northeast of the 
Demon Mountain. The majority turned 
south, toward wide, rolling, coastal plains 
and gentler climes. Four elven bloodlines, 
who over centuries would divide, survive, and 
remerge, ultimately “stabilized” into the eight 
windrunner clans that today roam the windy 
plains and trackless steppe-lands.

--- PAGE 16 ---
14

--- PAGE 17 ---
15
For nearly all windrunners, primary 
subsistence is derived from nomadic 
herding. With the aid of trained herding 
and hunting dogs, the clans cohabitate 
and tend to antelope, musk ox, and bison. 
Windrunner societies are self-governing 
tribal confederacies, built on ancestral ties 
and political alliances. They are a fiercely 
self-reliant people: passionate, territorial, 
and ardently devoted to their post-exodus 
way of life. 
The clans build no fences and do not 
believe in the ownership of land. They do, 
however, fiercely defend sacred sites and 
hunting grounds, even from one another. 
Long‑standing feuds occur regularly over 
water, grazing, and wintering rights. 
Characteristics. Windrunners are slight 
even by elven standards, and individuals 
reaching a height of 5 feet are rare. They keep 
their hair braided, knotted, pinned, or even 
shorn off to withstand the relentless winds. 
Windrunner attire usually consists of tanned 
and dyed hides and furs. They adore tattoos 
and piercings and make intricate fetishes to 
denote clan and status. 
Elves Aloft
While the windrunners’ use of kites is 
noteworthy, it is somewhat overwrought in 
the minds of many. Travelers’ tales, however, 
keep getting more elaborate with each telling.
Typical kite use for the clans is to cross 
chasms and other treacherous land, 
launching from horseback or descending 
from precipices. They also use them for 
competitive events and for herding livestock 
and marking land for grazing and water. They 
are storied for sending aloft tethered lookouts 
via kite. Distant clusters of kites can often be 
seen fluttering above their herds. 
Their rain wagons, or water wains, one 
of the few wheeled conveyances used by 
windrunners, are fitted with a channeling 
system for the collection, storage, and 
distribution of rainwater. 
Equipment of the Windrunners
The windrunners have developed many tools 
for hunting on the planes.
Birding Shaft. These short, thick-shafted 
arrows have blunted, weighted tips. Instead 
of damage, a creature hit by one must make 
a Constitution saving throw with a DC 8 
+ your proficiency bonus + your Dexterity 
modifier. On a failed save, the creature is 
stunned until the end of its next turn.
Lasso. The target of a successful lasso attack 
is grappled and restrained. While the grapple 
persists, you may pull the target by 5 feet 
per turn as a bonus action or dismount a 
mounted target, knocking it prone. The lasso 
has a 15-foot reach.
A creature can use its action to make a 
Strength (Athletics) or Dexterity (Acrobatics) 
check (target’s choice) contested by your 
Strength (Athletics) or Dexterity (Acrobatics) 
check (your choice), freeing itself or another 
creature within its reach on a success. Dealing 
5 slashing damage to the lasso (AC 10) also 
frees the creature without harming it, ending 
the effect and destroying the lasso.
Windrunner Bolas. When a creature is 
hit by a ranged weapon attack made with 
bolas, it must make a Strength or Dexterity 
saving throw (target’s choice) with a DC 8 
+ your proficiency bonus + your Strength 
or Dexterity modifier (your choice). On a 
failed save, the creature is restrained until the 
bolas are removed. On a successful save, the 
creature takes damage but is not entangled.
A creature can use its action to make a 
DC 12 Strength (Athletics) or Dexterity 
(Acrobatics) check, freeing itself or another 
creature within its reach on a success. Dealing 
5 slashing damage to the bolas (AC 10) also 
frees the creature without harming it, ending 
the effect and destroying the bolas.
Windrunner Boomerang. A boomerang 
thrown within its short range returns to you 
after it is thrown. If you have a Dexterity

--- PAGE 18 ---
16
score of 15 or higher, you automatically 
catch the returning boomerang. If not, you 
must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw 
to catch it. On a failed save, the boomerang 
lands at your feet. If you fail the save by 5 or 
more, the boomerang strikes you, dealing 
1d4 bludgeoning damage (or slashing 
damage if it is a bladed boomerang).
Magic Items of 
the Windrunners
The windrunners favor magic items that are 
especially useful on the Rothenian Plane.
CEDARSKIN CUIRASS
Armor (Studded Leather), Very Rare 
(Requires Attunement)
This lightweight, fragrant piece is finely 
crafted of doeskin and reinforced with strips 
of woven cedar bark and rawhide. The armor 
is treated as +1 studded leather. In addition, 
while you wear it, you have advantage on 
any saving throws related to poison and 
disease, and difficult terrain doesn’t impede 
your movement. 
SAIGA HELM
Wondrous Item, Very Rare 
(Requires Attunement)
This antelope skull is fashioned as a helm and 
engraved with druidic sigils. While wearing 
it, you gain a +1 bonus to armor class and are 
immune to the stunned condition. 
Additionally, you can headbutt an opponent. 
On a hit, the target takes 7 (2d6) bludgeoning 
damage and must succeed on a DC 15 
Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. 
SNOWSHOE RABBIT SNOWBOOTS
Wondrous Item, Very Rare 
(Requires Attunement)
These low, soft boots are fashioned of 
enchanted snowshoe rabbit pelts and have 
wide, overlong soles. Icy terrain doesn’t 
impede your movement, and you have 
advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks made 
to hide in snow.
Additionally, on speaking the command 
word, you gain +15 feet of movement, plus 
your jump distance is tripled. When this 
property has been used for a total of 1 hour, 
the magic ceases to function until you finish a 
short or long rest.
ITEM
COST
WEIGHT
Ammunition
Birding Shaft
2 gp
1 1/2 lb.
NAME 
COST
DAMAGE 
WEIGHT
PROPERTIES
Martial Melee Weapons
Lasso
5 gp
—
6 lb.
Finesse, reach (15 feet), 
special (see below)
Martial Ranged Weapons  
  
  
 
Windrunner Bolas 
25 gp 
1d4 bludgeoning 
3 lb. 
Finesse, light, thrown 
(range 30/60), special 
(see below)
Windrunner 
Boomerang 
15 gp (standard)/
25 gp (bladed) 
1d4 bludgeoning 
(standard)/1d4 
slashing (bladed) 
3 lb. (standard)/
4 lb. (bladed) 
Finesse, light, special 
(see below), thrown 
(range 100/300)

--- PAGE 19 ---
17
WIND KUKRI
Weapon (Dagger), Rare (Requires Attunement)
You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage 
rolls with this magic weapon.
If wielding a pair of wind kukri, you gain a 
+2 bonus to attack and damage rolls made 
with each weapon. In addition, you gain the 
following abilities while wielding the pair:
•	 Once per turn per kukri, when used as 
a thrown weapon, it flies back to your 
hand safely after each attack roll. If you 
don’t have a hand free, the weapon lands 
at your feet.
•	 When you score a critical hit with a 
kukri, the target takes an additional 2 
(1d4) thunder damage.
•	 A target hit by both kukris in the 
same round must succeed on a DC 13 
Strength saving throw or be pushed 
back 5 feet and deafened until the end of 
their next turn.
Spells of the Windrunners
While windrunner elves certainly 
acknowledge the existence of other peoples’ 
deities, they worship none, though they do 
have a rich druidic tradition and sorcerers are 
not uncommon. 
BREEZE WALKER 
2nd-Level Transmutation | Druid
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a pheasant feather) 
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
Choosing a direction, you summon a strong, 
steady breeze to swirl beneath your feet 
and propel you. You levitate to a sustained 
height of 3 feet for the duration, and travel 
in the chosen direction is at 150% of your 
movement. Travel in any other direction is at 
50% of your movement. 
While mounted, your mount’s movement is 
affected as well. 
WINDBLOWN 
4th-Level Evocation | Sorcerer
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch 
Components: V, S, M 
(a pinch of quail down)
Duration: Concentration, 
up to 1 minute
You cause a column of air to swiftly launch 
the target creature or object up to 100 feet 
straight up. A creature can make a Dexterity 
saving throw to grab onto a fixed object it 
can reach, thus avoiding being launched. 
If some solid object (such as a ceiling) is 
encountered on the way up, the target strikes 
it just as if they had fallen the same distance. 
Once at its apex, the target remains buoyant, 
bobbing in midair, and will be blown along 
with the prevailing wind. When the spell 
ends, the target falls to the ground. This spell 
has no effect on flying creatures.
Windrunner NPCs 
Silent figures appear all around you in a 
heartbeat. Dozens rise from the tall savannah 
grass like ghosts. These small, hide-clad elves 
seem to bristle at your approach, heavy bone 
knives clenched in their tattooed fists. 
ELF, WINDRUNNER SCOUT
Medium Humanoid (Elf), Any Non-Lawful 
Alignment
Armor Class 15 (studded leather)
Hit Points 52 (8d8 +16)
Speed 30 ft.
STR 	
DEX 	
CON 	
INT 	
WIS 	
CHA 
12 (+1) 	 17 (+3) 	 14 (+2) 	 11 (+0) 	 14 (+2) 	 9 (−1)
Skills Animal Handling +4, Perception +4, 
Stealth +5, Survival +4
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 14
Languages Common, Elvish
Challenge 2 (450 XP)     Proficiency Bonus +2

--- PAGE 20 ---
18
Fey Ancestry. The elf has advantage on saving 
throws against being charmed, and magic 
can’t put them to sleep. 
Keen Hearing and Sight. The elf has advantage 
on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on 
hearing or sight.
Pack Tactics. The elf has advantage on an 
attack roll against a creature if at least one of 
their allies is within 5 ft. of the creature and 
the ally isn’t Incapacitated.
ACTIONS
Multiattack. The elf makes two Bone Knives 
attacks or one Bone Knives and one Lasso 
attack. 
Bone Knives. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to 
hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 5 (1d4 + 3) 
slashing damage.
Lasso. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 
15 ft., one target. Hit: Target is grappled 
(escape DC 14). While the grapple persists, 
the target is restrained. The elf can use a 
bonus action to pull a grappled target up 
to 5 feet or to dismount a mounted target, 
knocking it prone.

--- PAGE 21 ---
19
Boomerang. Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, 
range 100/300, one target. Hit: 5 (1d4 + 3) 
bludgeoning damage. 
BONUS ACTIONS
Fast Hands. If the elf hits the same target with 
two Bone Knives attacks in the same round, 
they can make an additional two Bone Knives 
attacks against the same target.
ELF, WINDRUNNER SKIRMISHER 
Medium Humanoid (Elf), Any Non-Lawful 
Alignment
Armor Class 16 (studded leather)
Hit Points 112 (15d8 + 45)
Speed 30 ft.
STR 	
DEX 	
CON 	
INT 	
WIS 	
CHA 
14 (+2) 	 18 (+4) 	 16 (+3) 	 11 (+0) 	 14 (+2) 	 12 (+1)

--- PAGE 22 ---
20
Saving Throws Dex +7, Wis +5
Skills Animal Handling +5, Perception +5, 
Stealth +7, Survival +5
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 15
Languages Common, Elvish
Challenge 5 (1,800 XP)   Proficiency Bonus +3
Fey Ancestry. The elf has advantage on saving 
throws against being charmed, and magic 
can’t put them to sleep. 
Keen Hearing and Sight. The elf has advantage 
on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on 
hearing or sight.
Mounted Warrior. When mounted, the elf has 
advantage on attacks against unmounted 
creatures smaller than its mount. If the elf’s 
mount is subjected to an effect that allows 
it to take half damage with a successful 
Dexterity saving throw, the mount instead 
takes no damage if it succeeds on the saving 
throw and half damage if it fails. 
Pack Tactics. The elf has advantage on an 
attack roll against a creature if at least one of 
their allies is within 5 ft. of the creature and 
the ally isn’t Incapacitated.
Precision Shot. When the elf attacks with 
a ranged or thrown melee weapon, their 
attacks ignore half cover and don’t have 
disadvantage at long range.
ACTIONS
Multiattack. The elf makes three Obsidian 
Scimitar attacks or three Shortbow attacks.
Obsidian Scimitar. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 
to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) 
slashing damage. For each hit a target takes 
from this attack, the target takes an additional 
cumulative +1 slashing damage at the start 
of each of its turns, so for example, three 
hits on a target would mean an additional 
+3 slashing damage per turn. Any amount 
of magical healing or a DC 13 Wisdom 
(Medicine) check stops this extra damage 
(and resets the count). Constructs and undead 
are immune to this extra damage.
Bolas. Ranged Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, 
range 30/60, one target. Hit: 6 (1d4 + 4) 
bludgeoning damage, and the target must 
succeed on a DC 15 Strength or Dexterity 
saving throw (target’s choice) or be 
restrained. A restrained target is freed with 
a successful DC 12 Strength (Athletics) or 
Dexterity (Acrobatics) check or by dealing 5 
slashing damage to the bolas (AC 10).
Shortbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, 
range 80/320, one target. Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) 
piercing damage. 
Spellcasting. The elf casts one of the following 
spells, using Intelligence as the spellcasting 
ability (spell save DC 11):
• 2/day each: hunter’s mark, waft*
• 1/day each: pass without trace, thunderous 
charge*
(* See Deep Magic.)

--- PAGE 23 ---
21
E
lves have left their mark across the 
history of the world as empires rose, fell, 
and disappeared. Throughout the centuries, 
elven heroes and leaders etched their 
legends into the annals of time. There are 
legendary elves whose names are spoken of in 
reverence—and sometimes in fear—even to 
this day. Objects crafted for or by those elves 
still linger in the mortal realm, left behind 
during the Great Retreat.
Bands of Infernal Favor
This armband is made of two blood-red metal 
bands, which cross over one another three 
times. Between the gaps, crystals are set in 
place, hollow yet surprisingly durable.
To date, only a few of the Bands of Infernal 
Favor have been found, though their current 
locations are kept a mystery. Long before 
the rise of the magocracies—when there was 
still some trust between the elves and the 
humans—humans gifted the bands to various 
elven patrons: mages, druids, and paladins. 
Ostensibly, the bands were created to boost 
the wearer’s connection with a familiar, 
companion, or steed. Highly valued by those 
who received them, it was unknown that the 
FABLED ELVISH MAGIC ITEMS  
by Jeremy Hochhalter 
true purpose of the strange, twisted metal was 
the corruption of elvenkind.
Those who passed them along to the elves 
were devout worshippers of infernal powers 
who wished to harness the magics wielded by 
elves. They sought ways to bend elven wills 
to their favor, granting them access to the 
shadow roads.
The elves were wary of the purpose that 
seemed to lurk within the bands, twisting 
their companions into fiendish forms. Casting 
them aside, the bands were hidden away from 
those who might cause harm. A few, however, 
have remained unaccounted for.
BANDS OF INFERNAL FAVOR
Wondrous Item, Fabled (5th-Level and Higher 
Properties Require Attunement by a Paladin, 
Ranger, Sorcerer, Warlock, or Wizard)
While you are both conscious, you and your 
familiar, animal companion, or steed can’t 
be surprised while you are within 30 feet of 
each other.
Infernal Favor (Requires Attunement). 
As your level increases, you gain the 
following benefits while using this item. 
During attunement, and then at dawn of

--- PAGE 24 ---
22
each day, the bands’ spikes press into your 
flesh, draining blood that fills the crystals 
held in place by the red metal. This process 
empowers the bands and drains one Hit Die 
from you. Hit Dice drained in this manner 
can be recuperated as normal. If this process 
is not completed, the bands’ abilities do not 
function for that day.
5th Level. You and your familiar, animal 
companion, or steed both gain advantage 
on attacks against a creature if you are both 
within 5 feet of the creature and neither of 
you is incapacitated. 
Additionally, your familiar, animal 
companion, or steed’s hit points increase by 
the average of your class Hit Die when you 
increase in level from now on, including 
multiclass levels.
9th Level. You gain a +2 bonus to initiative 
as long as your familiar, animal companion, 
or steed is within 30 feet of you. 
Additionally, your familiar, animal 
companion, or steed does not die or 
disappear when they are reduced to 0 hit 
points. Instead, they are dying and may make 
death saving throws. You may use an action 
to spend an available Hit Die to stabilize and 
heal them for the amount of your Hit Die + 
your spellcasting modifier.
As a bonus action, you can spend available 
Hit Dice to heal your familiar, animal 
companion, or steed. 
13th Level. You cause your familiar, animal 
companion, or steed to magically change into 
a specific fiend of CR 5 or lower. The target’s 
statistics are replaced by the statistics of the 
chosen fiend, though it retains its alignment 
and Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma 
scores. It also retains all its skill and saving 
throw proficiencies, in addition to gaining 
those of the fiend. (The fiend is an average 
example of the chosen fiend, without any 
class levels or the Spellcasting trait. The 
target can’t use any legendary actions or lair 
actions of the new form.)
The target assumes the hit points and Hit 
Dice of the new form. When it reverts to its 
normal form, it returns to the number of hit 
points it had before it was transformed. If it 
reverts as a result of dropping to 0 hit points, 
any excess damage carries over to its normal 
form. As long as the excess damage doesn’t 
reduce its normal form to 0 hit points, it isn’t 
knocked unconscious.
The target can’t use any special senses its 
normal form has unless the fiend has that 
sense. If the fiend can speak, the target can 
speak and understand any language known 
by you.
Any equipment carried by either form falls 
to the ground when the change occurs unless 
both forms could hold the equipment.
Once used, the armband can’t be used in 
this way again until the next dawn.
17th Level. Your familiar, animal 
companion, or steed gain the fiend type, 
if it does not already have it, as it takes on 
fiendish features, such as black eyes, horns, 
or a fiendish hue. It becomes immune to fire 
and poison damage and can’t be poisoned. 
As a bonus action, you can spend available 
Hit Dice to remove hit points from your 
companion in order to heal yourself. If your 
companion has changed shape, those hit 
points are temporary and last for 1 hour or 
until they are lost from taking damage.
The Price of Attunement. While attuned 
to the armband, you have disadvantage on 
Wisdom (Insight) checks as well as Wisdom 
and Charisma saving throws against fiends. 
Charisma (Deception) checks made by you 
against fiends always fail. At any time, a fiend 
on your plane within 10 miles of you or your 
companion may use a bonus action to view 
what you or your companion see and hear.

--- PAGE 25 ---
23
Crown of the Eagle Emperor
This golden circlet is crafted in realistic detail 
as if feathers lie atop one another. Despite its 
age, there is no sign of damage or tarnish.
The Eagle Emperor, his true name now 
lost to history, ruled at the High Court of 
Liadmura in the Ironcrags during a time of 
expansion and military dominance. Though 
his empire is now gone, his winged emblem 
can still be found in the canton. The stories 
of his heroics and combat prowess are 
legendary, and woven within them are, what 
some sages say, hints that the Eagle Emperor 
was in fact a lycanthrope of some form.
The truth is equally as interesting 
though. The elven war god, Valeresh, 
looked favorably upon the Eagle Emperor, 
bestowing great power upon him. One such

--- PAGE 26 ---
24
boon was lain upon the emperor’s crown, 
allowing the conqueror to change shape into 
one of the massive golden eagles favored by 
his people and even allowing his elven form 
to take on the attributes of such a creature.
Whether Valeresh abandoned the Eagle 
Emperor or it was simply a matter of fate, no 
one knows, but during a terrific battle, the 
elven lord flew high above the armies that 
battled on the ground, dueling with riders 
of other winged beasts. Though the tide of 
battle was in his favor, the Eagle Emperor 
was suddenly struck down, the magic that 
sustained his transformation eradicated. His 
fall took him away from the battle but not 
before his army saw his plummeting form. 
Disheartened, the elven troops retreated to 
find their fallen lord, of which they found no 
sign. It is said by some that a soldier in that 
army found and spirited away the Crown of 
the Eagle Emperor, either to keep it safe or 
to use for their own purposes. Other legends 
state that the crown was nowhere to be 
found, taken back by Valeresh for the Eagle 
Emperor’s failure. This may be true, as their 
loss as this battle marked the beginning of 
the fall of the empire.
CROWN OF THE EAGLE EMPEROR
Wondrous Item, Fabled (5th-Level and 
Higher Properties Require Attunement)
While wearing the crown, you have 
advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks 
that require sight.
The Eagle Incarnate (Requires Attunement). 
As your level increases, you gain the 
following benefits while using this item.
5th Level. Using an action, golden eagle 
wings appear from your back, granting you 
a flying speed of 60 feet. Once used, the 
crown can’t be used in this way again until 
the next dawn.
9th Level. You gain +10 to initiative and 
can’t be surprised.
13th Level. You can use your action to 
polymorph into an eagle-humanoid hybrid 
or into an eagle or back into your true form. 
Your statistics, other than your AC, are the 
same in each form. You choose whether 
your equipment falls to the ground, merges 
into your new form, or is worn by it. Worn 
equipment functions as normal, but the GM 
decides whether it is practical for the new 
form to wear a particular piece of equipment, 
based on the creature’s shape and size. Your 
equipment doesn’t change size or shape to 
match the new form, and any equipment the 
new form can’t wear must either fall to the 
ground or merge with you. Equipment that 
merges with you has no effect until you leave 
the form. Your hybrid form has wings that 
grant you a flying speed of 60 feet, and you 
can hover.
While in the hybrid form, you gain two 
natural weapon attacks which you are 
proficient with: Talons, which deal 2d6 + your 
Strength modifier slashing damage, and Beak, 
which deals 1d6 + your Strength modifier 
piercing damage. This damage is magical.
In addition, you are resistant to 
bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing weapons 
from nonmagical weapons that aren’t 
silvered.
Once used, the crown can’t be used in this 
way again until the next dawn, except to 
revert to your true form
17th Level. You are immune to damage from 
nonmagical weapons. In addition, you may 
use the 5th-level and 13th-level abilities of 
the crown twice per day. You also gain the 
Piercing Cry action below. 
Piercing Cry (Recharge 6). You can release 
a screeching cry in a 30-foot cone. Creatures 
within this cone must succeed on a DC 
18 Constitution saving throw or take 8d6 
thunder damage and be deafened. Creatures 
that succeed on the saving throw take half 
the amount of damage and are not deafened.

--- PAGE 27 ---
25
Gorget of the Explorer
This dark-leather gorget is finely worked with 
a beautiful compass rose. Vines and various 
flowers decorate the compass.
Scholars argue whether this gorget was 
created by Emperor Xindrical or if it was 
made for the ruler that was commonly 
referred to as the Explorer. In any case, legend 
tells that Xindrical, ruler of the first elven 
capital on Midgard, used the gorget’s magic 
to travel fantastic distances in the blink of an 
eye. What’s more, when he traveled on foot, 
he was able to fend off dangers that left others 
in dire straits.

--- PAGE 28 ---
26
After the expansion of the elven empires 
across the face of Midgard, the gorget was lost 
to time, though vague references to heroes 
and villains with similar abilities pop up in 
scholarly texts. Then again, such tales are 
often the stuff of chapbooks and bard songs, 
so it is difficult to assess if and where the 
gorget actually appears since being lost to the 
Explorer Emperor.
GORGET OF THE EXPLORER
Wondrous Item, Fabled (5th-Level and 
Higher Properties Require Attunement)
You recall any regions you’ve traveled and 
can’t get lost in those places unless the area 
has changed excessively or is hidden by 
magic. Spending 1 minute in deliberation, 
you can always determine which direction is 
north.
World Walker (Requires Attunement). As 
your level increases, you gain the following 
benefits while using this item.
5th Level. You have advantage on Wisdom 
(Survival) checks. Spending 1 minute, you 
can determine how far away the closest ley 
line is and in which direction it lies. 
9th Level. You are not affected by difficult 
terrain. 
As a bonus action, you can activate the 
gorget to begin creating difficult terrain 
in your wake for up to 600 feet. This may 
appear as ice, vines, loose rubble, or similar, 
but it does not deal damage. Once used, the 
gorget can’t be used in this way again until 
the next dawn.
13th Level. While at a ley line, you can attune 
the gorget to that point by spending 1 minute 
focusing. You may only have one attuned 
point at a time.
You can teleport yourself and up to eight 
willing creatures to an attuned point. Once 
used, the gorget can’t be used in this way 
again until the next dawn.
17th Level. Once per day, you can use an 
action to choose an elemental type: acid, 
cold, fire, lightning, poison, or thunder. 
Aligning the gorget to that type alters the 
coloring of the decorative bits on the gorget 
and grants you immunity to that damage 
type. At dawn of the next day, this immunity 
fades and must be reactivated.
Sarastra’s Baubles
The baubles are a set of four glass globes, 
fragile in appearance, which hang from a 
small brass fixture. Other bits of gems, beads, 
and glass decorate the fine strings from 
which the baubles dangle. The brass plate has 
an oblong hole from which a leather strap 
or strong twine may be laced, allowing the 
baubles to be hung from a staff or belt loop.
Long before she was the Queen of Night 
and Magic, Sarastra dabbled in magic that 
others might label as questionable. The 
daughter of High Queen Lelliana of Thorn 
experimented with and created many magic 
devices before she was banished, though 
most were confiscated and destroyed. One 
object that slipped past the watchful eyes of 
her mother and those sent to scour the lands 
for such magic were a set of ornaments. 
Called Sarastra’s Baubles by those who know 
of their existence, they are highly sought 
by scholars, mages, and adventurers alike. 
Separated from the baubles when she was 
exiled, Sarastra herself would like to regain 
possession of these horrid trinkets.
Created by a younger yet no-less cruel 
Sarastra, one should not be shocked to find 
out that the future goddess and ruler of the 
dark fey formed these baubles to torment 
those who guarded her. Or when necessary, 
the baubles were used to capture those who 
learned Sarastra’s devious plots, potential 
snitches that were never heard from or seen 
again.

--- PAGE 29 ---
27
SARASTA’S BAUBLES
Wondrous Item, Fabled (5th-Level and 
Higher Properties Require Attunement)
You have advantage on Charisma-based 
ability checks.
Will of the Mistress (Requires Attunement). 
As your level increases, you gain the 
following benefits while using this item.
5th Level. Through the baubles, you are able 
to cast each of the following spells once per 
day (saving throw DC 15): calm emotions, 
charm monster, confusion, fear. 
9th Level. As an action, you can use a 
bauble to send one creature within 60 feet 
that you can see to a demiplane within the 
bauble. The creature must succeed on a DC 
17 Charisma saving throw or be banished. 
While in the harmless demiplane, the target 
is incapacitated. Though aware of what is 
going on outside the bauble, the creature 
can’t communicate beyond its confines. 
The creature does not hunger, thirst, or age. 
Poisons and diseases and other damaging 
effects that affect it are suspended while 
the creature is banished. A creature that 
succeeds on its saving throw is immune to 
the banishing effect of the baubles for the 
next 24 hours.
A bauble can hold one creature at a time. 
You can release a banished creature as a 
bonus action, at which time the creature 
reappears in the space it left or in the nearest 
unoccupied space if that space is occupied. 
If the creature’s original space is no longer 
within 60 feet of the bauble, it appears in a 
random space within 60 feet of the bauble’s 
location.
A bauble has AC 12, 10 hits points, and will 
release a banished creature if broken. Broken 
baubles reform after 1d4 days.
13th Level. You can incite fear in a creature 
that is being held within a bauble. As an 
action, you can force the creature to make a 
DC 18 Charisma saving throw. If it fails, the 
creature is haunted by formless terrors for 1 
minute. During this time, you can use its fear 
to heal yourself. As a bonus action, you cause 
the creature to suffer 3d12 psychic damage, 
and you regain an equal amount of hit 
points. If a creature is reduced to 0 hit points 
within a bauble, it falls unconscious for 1d4 
hours but is stable.
17th Level. Time spent in a bauble warps a 
creature’s perceptions about you, making it 
malleable to your orders. Even though you 
can’t make a creature not dislike or hate 
you, a creature you release can be forced 
to do your bidding for 1 hour. During that 
time, the creature is charmed and can’t take 
actions to harm you. If instructed to do 
something that it would not typically do, 
such as harm a loved one, it may make a DC 
17 Charisma saving throw to refuse, though 
it remains charmed by you. A charmed 
creature can’t be forced to harm itself or 
put itself into situations that would cause its 
death, such as jumping off a cliff.
To recapture a creature, you impinge your 
will as an action, and the creature must make 
a DC 17 Charisma saving throw. If it fails, 
the creature is once again banished within 
a bauble. If it succeeds though, the creature 
breaks free of the spell and is immune to the 
banishing effect of the baubles for the next 
24 hours.

--- PAGE 30 ---
28
OPEN GAME LICENSE Version 1.0a 
The following text is the property of Wizards of the Coast, 
Inc. and is Copyright 2000 Wizards of the Coast, Inc 
(“Wizards”). All Rights Reserved. 
1. Definitions: (a)”Contributors” means the copyright 
and/or trademark owners who have contributed 
Open Game Content; (b)”Derivative Material” means 
copyrighted material including derivative works and 
translations (including into other computer languages), 
potation, modification, correction, addition, extension, 
upgrade, improvement, compilation, abridgment or other 
form in which an existing work may be recast, transformed 
or adapted; (c) “Distribute” means to reproduce, license, 
rent, lease, sell, broadcast, publicly display, transmit or 
otherwise distribute; (d)”Open Game Content” means the 
game mechanic and includes the methods, procedures, 
processes and routines to the extent such content does 
not embody the Product Identity and is an enhancement 
over the prior art and any additional content clearly 
identified as Open Game Content by the Contributor, 
and means any work covered by this License, including 
translations and derivative works under copyright law, 
but specifically excludes Product Identity. (e) “Product 
Identity” means product and product line names, logos 
and identifying marks including trade dress; artifacts; 
creatures characters; stories, storylines, plots, thematic 
elements, dialogue, incidents, language, artwork, 
symbols, designs, depictions, likenesses, formats, poses, 
concepts, themes and graphic, photographic and other 
visual or audio representations; names and descriptions 
of characters, spells, enchantments, personalities, 
teams, personas, likenesses and special abilities; places, 
locations, environments, creatures, equipment, magical or 
supernatural abilities or effects, logos, symbols, or graphic 
designs; and any other trademark or registered trademark 
clearly identified as Product identity by the owner of the 
Product Identity, and which specifically excludes the Open 
Game Content; (f) “Trademark” means the logos, names, 
mark, sign, motto, designs that are used by a Contributor 
to identify itself or its products or the associated products 
contributed to the Open Game License by the Contributor 
(g) “Use”, “Used” or “Using” means to use, Distribute, 
copy, edit, format, modify, translate and otherwise create 
Derivative Material of Open Game Content. (h) “You” or 
“Your” means the licensee in terms of this agreement.
2. The License: This License applies to any Open Game 
Content that contains a notice indicating that the Open 
Game Content may only be Used under and in terms of 
this License. You must affix such a notice to any Open 
Game Content that you Use. No terms may be added to 
or subtracted from this License except as described by the 
License itself. No other terms or conditions may be applied 
to any Open Game Content distributed using this License. 
3. Offer and Acceptance: By Using the Open Game 
Content You indicate Your acceptance of the terms of 
this License. 
4. Grant and Consideration: In consideration for 
agreeing to use this License, the Contributors grant You 
a perpetual, worldwide, royalty-free, nonexclusive license 
with the exact terms of this License to Use, the Open 
Game Content. 
5. Representation of Authority to Contribute: If You 
are contributing original material as Open Game Content, 
You represent that Your Contributions are Your original 
creation and/or You have sufficient rights to grant the 
rights conveyed by this License. 
6. Notice of License Copyright: You must update the 
COPYRIGHT NOTICE portion of this License to include 
the exact text of the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any Open 
Game Content You are copying, modifying or distributing, 
and You must add the title, the copyright date, and the 
copyright holder’s name to the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of 
any original Open Game Content you Distribute. 
7. Use of Product Identity: You agree not to Use 
any Product Identity, including as an indication as to 
compatibility, except as expressly licensed in another, 
independent Agreement with the owner of each element 
of that Product Identity. You agree not to indicate 
compatibility or co-adaptability with any Trademark 
or Registered Trademark in conjunction with a work 
containing Open Game Content except as expressly 
licensed in another, independent Agreement with the 
owner of such Trademark or Registered Trademark. 
The use of any Product Identity in Open Game Content 
does not constitute a challenge to the ownership of that 
Product Identity. The owner of any Product Identity used 
in Open Game Content shall retain all rights, title and 
interest in and to that Product Identity.
8. Identification: If you distribute Open Game Content 
You must clearly indicate which portions of the work that 
you are distributing are Open Game Content. 
9. Updating the License: Wizards or its designated 
Agents may publish updated versions of this License. You 
may use any authorized version of this License to copy, 
modify and distribute any Open Game Content originally 
distributed under any version of this License. 
10. Copy of this License: You MUST include a copy of 
this License with every copy of the Open Game Content 
You Distribute. 
11. Use of Contributor Credits: You may not market 
or advertise the Open Game Content using the name of 
any Contributor unless You have written permission from 
the Contributor to do so. 
12. Inability to Comply: If it is impossible for You to 
comply with any of the terms of this License with respect 
to some or all of the Open Game Content due to statute, 
judicial order, or governmental regulation then You may 
not Use any Open Game Material so affected. 
13. Termination: This License will terminate 
automatically if You fail to comply with all terms herein 
and fail to cure such breach within 30 days of becoming 
aware of the breach. All sublicenses shall survive the 
termination of this License. 
14. Reformation: If any provision of this License is held 
to be unenforceable, such provision shall be reformed 
only to the extent necessary to make it enforceable. 
15. COPYRIGHT NOTICE 
Open Game License v 1.0a Copyright 2000, Wizards of 
the Coast, Inc. 
System Reference Document 5.0 Copyright 2016, 
Wizards of the Coast, Inc.; Authors Mike Mearls, Jeremy 
Crawford, Chris Perkins, Rodney Thompson, Peter Lee, 
James Wyatt, Robert J. Schwalb, Bruce R. Cordell, Chris 
Sims, and Steve Townshend, based on original material by 
E. Gary Gygax and Dave Arneson.
Beyond Damage Dice 2. ©2021 Open Design LLC. 
Authors: James Haeck.
Warlock 31: Elves. ©2022 Open Design LLC. Authors: 
Sarah Madsen, Robert Fairbanks, Jeremy Hochhalter.

--- PAGE 32 ---
SUPPORTED BY 
 $9.99 
Printed in USA