--- PAGE 1 ---
34
Baba Yaga

--- PAGE 3 ---
CREDITS
Design: Lou Anders, Wolfgang Baur, Sarah Madsen, Kelly Pawlik
Development & Editing: Scott Gable
Art Direction & Graphic Design: Marc Radle
Cover Art: Justine Jones 
Back Cover Art: Phil Stone
Interior Art: Pedro Potier, Phil Stone
Publisher: Wolfgang Baur
Kobold Press, Midgard, Open Design, and their associated logos are trademarks of Open Design.
Product Identity: The following items are hereby identified as Product Identity, as defined in the Open Game License version 
1.0a, Section 1(e), and are not Open Content: All trademarks, registered trademarks, proper names (characters, place names, 
new deities, etc.), dialogue, plots, story elements, locations, characters, artwork, sidebars, and trade dress. 
(Elements that have previously been designated as Open Game Content are not included in this declaration.)
Open Game Content: The Open Content in this book includes the Baba Yaga’s cat, gnomish tinker scout, and knife familiar 
monsters and the avert the eye, find diabolical familiar, gnomish tongue, and hat trick spells.
 No other portion of this work may be reproduced in any form without permission. 
© 2022 Open Design LLC
www.koboldpress.com
TABLE OF CONTENTS
TM
“Baba Yaga: A Tangle of Mistruths” by Lou Anders ......................................................................... 2
“Misto Ellel: The Thundering Town” by Sarah Madsen ................................................................... 7
“Grandmother’s Daughters: Secrets of the Vila” by Kelly Pawlik ................................................. 14
“Niemheim: Notes on Gnomish Diabolism” by Wolfgang Baur ................................................... 21

--- PAGE 4 ---
2
Where on Midgard. Merely locating the 
Feywitch is no simple task. However, it is said 
that the truly despairing can always find their 
way to Grandmother. She enjoys striking 
bargains, after all, and Bony Legs, as she is 
sometimes known, never gives up a chance to 
add to her store of secrets, hidden knowledge 
being her favorite commodity. The rarer the 
secret one holds, the greater chance there is of 
stumbling upon Grandmother or even being 
sought out by her. But should someone be 
brave or foolish enough to look for her, then 
know that when she is not riding through 
the woods on the back of an enormous sow 
or flying through the air in her iron mortar, 
steering her way with a pestle and covering 
her tracks with a broom, Baba Yaga can most 
often be found dwelling in the heart of the 
Margreve Forest or upon a lonely stretch of 
the Rothenian Plain. 
Baba Yaga’s dwelling is not hard to miss. 
Leaving the hut aside for a moment, the 
surrounding grounds are also distinctive. 
They are usually marked by a wooden fence 
capped at intervals by humanoid skulls, each 
M
uch has been said and yet still little is 
truly known of the one they call Baba 
Yaga. She is the most terrifying of beldams, 
yet on occasion, she is also a dispenser of 
wisdom and a granter of favors. The Wild 
Old Woman is known to enjoy dining on 
young humanoids and has a special fondness 
for nibbling on gnome. And she is not above 
eating the tougher meat of, well, anyone else. 
Yet despite her well-documented appetites, 
there are those desperate enough to petition 
her for aid. Even so, the witch’s boons 
frequently come at costs higher than that 
which drove these unfortunates to solicit her 
in the first place.	
What follows are some of the many strange 
and often contradictory bits of folklore—but 
also some scholarly efforts—that are devoted 
to Grandmother. Good luck gleaning any 
truths from them. They’re most likely fictions 
and misunderstandings, or at best half-truths, 
but you never know what small portion of 
detail may save your life at some point. (You 
can read more about Baba Yaga in Midgard 
Worldbook and Warlock Grimoire 2.)
BABA YAGA: A TANGLE 
OF MISTRUTHS 
by Lou Anders 
“How do I know that this story is true? Why, one who was there told it to me.”
—unknown

--- PAGE 5 ---
3
lit from lanterns within so that the light 
shines out of the eye sockets. As unnerving 
as this might be, it is made doubly so by the 
claims of those who have visited the hut 
and returned to tell the tale that there are 
always just enough empty posts awaiting new 
skulls to account precisely for the heads of 
those visiting. More so, the lanterns flicker, 
winking on and off as if in response to the 
presence of visitors. On occasion, the skulls 
have even been known to speak. But as 
remarkable as the fencing is, what it contains 
is far stranger. 
The “dancing hut” of Baba Yaga stands on 
two enormous chicken legs and often struts 
around the yard. Above the giant fowl parts, 
reports of the hut’s appearance are varied. At 
times, the hut presents as a simple peasant’s 
hut, constructed of wooden logs and with 
no windows and featuring only a single 
door. At other times, it is a more elaborate 
cabin with a porch and several stories. Most 
chilling are the tales that swear that the hut 
is made not of wood but of humanoid bones. 
The illusionist Xaldri Lamblewomple—
formerly of the Arcane Collegium until 
his mysterious disappearance of a year 
ago—in his ambitious and ill‑considered 
treatise on Grandmother’s domicile, points 
out that the hut is reminiscent of a certain 
traditional Krakovan building that is 
constructed on a stump and used to bury 
the dead. Its lack of windows and its single 
door are to discourage both the living from 
disturbing the dead and the dead from 
disturbing the living. Lamblewomple argues 
that Grandmother takes on the symbolic 
role of a priestess who leads the cremation 
rites, suggesting there may be deep mythic 
significance in her proclivity to roast people 
in her ovens. Unfortunately, Lamblewomple 
is not available to expound further on 
his theories since the wizard’s current 
whereabouts are unknown. 
But logs or bones, hut or resting place 
for the dead, all accounts agree that the 
dancing hut will turn away from intruders, 
refusing them entry, unless they address it 
properly. One wishing to enter the hut must 
say, “Turn your back to the forest, your front 
to me.” If these words are spoken, and it 
must be stressed that they should be spoken 
politely, the hut will face the speaker and 
kneel, settling upon the ground. Access isn’t 
guaranteed by this though. There’s an even 
chance the door will be locked, and the door’s 
keyhole is a mouth full of razor-sharp teeth. 
But presuming the door is unlocked or the 
lock is picked without the loss of too many 
fingers, intruders who enter generally find 
themselves in the kitchen. The keyword is 
generally, for rooms do shift around in the 
interdimensional space within the hut—
bigger on the inside than the outside—and 
the total number of rooms in undocumented. 
(For more specifics on Baba Yaga’s hut, see 
Warlock Grimoire 2.)
Entertaining Guests. Should Grandmother 
be at home, she is frequently reclined atop the 
freestanding stove for warmth. Sometimes she 
appears larger than an average woman, up to 
15 feet tall when standing, and if encountered 
in this form, her legs may stretch from one 
side of the kitchen to the other. It should be 
pointed out, lest one be taken by surprise at 
the sight and give offense, that her nickname 
Bony Legs is not a reference to having skinny 
limbs. Rather, on occasion, one or both of 
Grandmother’s legs appears skeletal, either 
actual raw bone or skin stretched so tight as to 
depict the bones clearly. Should the bony leg 
(or legs) be on display, visitors are advised to 
ignore it and never call attention to it under 
any circumstances whatsoever.
Straight away, Baba Yaga will attempt to gain 
the upper hand in any ensuing conversation. 
She can unerringly smell what country a 
visitor hails from, and she usually points 
this out at the start to unsettle them with her 
knowledge. She frequently asks next, “Are you 
doing a deed or fleeing a deed? Are you here 
of your own will or by compulsion?” What

--- PAGE 6 ---
4
she makes of the answers to these questions is 
inconsistent and unpredictable. One should 
be cautioned that, while Baba Yaga enjoys 
bantering with her guests, she will frequently 
threaten to eat the overly curious. This may 
have something to do with the rumor that 
the Witch of the East ages an entire year 
whenever someone asks her a question. If 
that is so, then she is balancing her love of 
secrets and enthusiasm for haggling with her 
desire to not age overly. At any rate, she has a 
ravenous appetite, and all conversations with 
her are likely to include some mention of her 
appetites and her estimations of how well or 
poorly a visitor might taste.
Should Grandmother indeed decide to eat 
someone, it can be hard to dissuade her. 
However, Myrieem Yulan-Rhal, a Kariv 
herbalist and fortune teller, maintains that the 
Great Crone can be distracted if one can find 
and blow her magical horn, the Tripple Horn 
of Baba Yaga. This item is comprised of three 
horns of different lengths and with differently 
sized bell flares, bound together into one 
instrument. Yulan-Rhal instructs that one 
must blow the first horn softly, the second one 
louder, and the third louder still. Sounding 
the horns in the correct order summons 
ravens that surround and harry Baba Yaga, 
distracting her, and a firebird, which will emit 
a blinding ray of light to further facilitate the 
horn blower’s escape. None of this, it should 
be noted, has been verified by anyone else. 
And why would she keep such an item just 
lying around? It would certainly need to be 
useful to her otherwise.
Should the horn prove unavailable or 
insufficient, would-be meals are occasionally 
said to find aid from the many servants 
of Baba Yaga that dwell in and about the 
hut, including an awakened cat and several 
dining and cooking utensils, among others. 
The utensils are believed to be polymorphed 
beings who have offended Baba Yaga in the 
past. The witch’s own dentures, the famous 
iron teeth of Baba Yaga, have even been 
known to be at odds with their mistress a 
time or two. Baba Yaga also keeps and breeds 
horses. The equines are the least potentially 
helpful of her servants, but they are worth 
noting as it is said they are so fast as to be able 
to cross the world in a day. 
Friends of Grandmother. Of course, 
Grandmother has allies too, though some are 
unwilling and others unwitting. First among 
these are her horsemen, known as Bright Day, 
Red Sun, and Black Knight—or as Baba Yaga 
refers to them, “My Bright Dawn, my Red 
Sun, and my Dark Midnight”—and they are 
never seen together outside the confines of 
her property. Indeed, through some strange 
cosmological conjuring on Grandmother’s 
part, the horsemen are each connected to a 
specific period of time, as measured by the 
sun. Bright Day is bound to and governs 
dawn to mid-day, Red Sun from mid-day to 
sundown, and Black Night from sundown 
until daybreak. As such, only one can exist 
on the material plane at a time. Whether 
the horsemen were at some point ordinary

--- PAGE 7 ---
5
humanoids who came under the witch’s sway, 
or whether they are actual personifications 
of the day, is unclear. (See also Baba Yaga’s 
horsemen in Tome of Beasts.)
The lich-like being known as Koschei 
the Deathless is another of Grandmother’s 
favored servants. Once king of a 
long‑forgotten land, Koschei feared death 
so much that he turned to bizarre rituals to 
sustain himself. Extracting his soul, he placed 
it in a pin which was placed inside an egg, 
itself inside a duck swallowed by a rabbit in 
the belly of a goat. Or some tales say that 
rabbit is sealed instead within an iron chest 
buried on Buyan, the mythical isle of the 
dead. Either way, so long as his soul resides 
in its home away from home, Koschei cannot 
ever truly die. 
Koschei also rides an incredibly swift horse, 
and it is believed only Baba Yaga’s steeds are 
fast enough to catch him, but surely that is 
insufficient to explain her power over him. 
The nature of Grandmother’s hold over 
the immortal king isn’t clear. It’s possible 
she gifted him his horse. It’s also possible 
she possesses his soul’s receptable—or at 
least knows where it is and how to claim his 
hidden soul. It is just as likely that she has 
merely allowed Koschei to think she knows. 
Whatever the case, Koschei serves Baba 
Yaga on occasion, though he is never overly 
enamored with being her servant. 
The most numerous of Baba Yaga’s servants 
are the hundreds of vila (see also Tome 
of Beasts and “Grandmother’s Daughters: 
Secrets of the Vila” later in this issue of 
Warlock) that tend to congregate in the 
Margreve but can be found most anywhere. 
Baba Yaga refers to these fierce forest 
protectors as her daughters, though this is 
unlikely. Regardless, she treats them with a 
tenderness no other creature receives. For 
their part, the vila are generally willing to do 
her bidding, though at times individual vila 
have aided mortals in their attempts to escape 
Grandmother’s appetites. 
Price of a Deal. But should someone 
succeed in reaching Baba Yaga, in escaping 
both her stewpot and her minions, and in 
bargaining with the Queen of Hags, what 
does Baba Yaga want? What price does she 
set upon her knowledge or her gifts? If the 
petitioner knows something Grandmother 
doesn’t, that will most assuredly be the cost 
for her aid. Otherwise, she is liable to ask 
for something seemingly innocuous, like a 
fingernail clipping or the memory of a lost 
love, but these things invariably serve to aid 
her in her twisting schemes. She might ask 
that someone deliver an apple to a young 
girl living alone in the forest or take a golden 
brooch to the River King or present a silver 
mirror to King Lucan of the Blood Kingdom. 
Grandmother loves to set tasks that seem 
innocent enough but prove nigh impossible. 
She might ask for someone to clean her 
kitchen, only to have it grow to enormous 
size or for its oven to belch out an avalanche 
of soot. She might request that her herd 
be corralled, only for the equines to gallop 
halfway across the world. On more than one 
occasion, Baba Yaga has insisted someone 
marry one of her daughters and then 
instructed her servants to murder the spouse-
to-be the night before the wedding. (See also 
“Misto Ellel: The Thundering Town” and 
“Niemheim: Notes on Gnomish Diabolism” 
later in this issue of Warlock for more on 
those who have dealt with Baba Yaga and that 
remain in her constant orbit.)
There are also rare reports that a mystic 
named Jezibaba, sometimes called Granny 
Witch, is connected to Baba Yaga, perhaps 
even by ties of blood, but this remains all 
folklore, of course. Jezibaba lives in a hut 
similar to Baba Yaga’s, but it is never made 
of bones, and it is typically found on the 
shores of a tranquil lake. Far gentler than 
Grandmother, Jezibaba is generally helpful 
to those who treat her with kindness and 
respect. The greatest of all herbalists, Jezibaba 
is often sought by those struggling with

--- PAGE 8 ---
6
fertility and healing. She has been known to 
take on apprentices, teaching them about 
the magical properties of plants. Jezibaba is 
usually accompanied by her children, the 
Jezinky, all of whom are djinn.
The Nature of Grandmother. As much 
as is known about the Feywitch, so little is 
understood about what exactly Baba Yaga 
is. Some believe Grandmother is a forgotten 
goddess of the Underworld. Others that 
she is a being from another world entirely, 
who only came to Midgard after millennia 
spent in other lands. Stranger yet is the 
assertion that Baba Yaga is not one but three 
separate beings, all named Baba Yaga. This 
supposition is supported by accounts of 
Baba Yaga appearing in multiple locations 
at the same time and by the rare visitor that 
believes they have encountered her and 
her two “sisters.” Whether these are actual 
sisters, doppelgangers, or the same person 
transposed in time is not clear. A horrible 
possibility must be entertained that the three 
Grandmothers might even be a dark mask of 
the Norns—or the Norns might be a more 
benevolent mask of Grandmother. 	
A seldom-told tale from the gnomes of 
Niemheim offers one possible glimpse at 
Grandmother’s origin. The story details how 
a powerful arch-devil sought to distill the 
essence of evil by cooking the twelve most 
wicked women in Midgard in a caldron. 
As the horrible concoction boiled, the 
devil absentmindedly spat in the mixture. 
Unfortunately, in so doing, he inadvertently 
added a bit of his own soul. This empowered 
the foul soup, and out hopped Grandmother. 
She slew and ate the devil immediately, and 
then the witch stole a mortar and pestle from 
the devil’s kitchen and flew away. While this 
tale is considered apocryphal by most, the 
idea of Baba Yaga entering the world fully 
formed rings true. After all, while she may 
have sisters and daughters aplenty, it is hard 
to conceive of Grandmother ever having had 
a mother herself—or indeed being anything 
other than the terrible crone she is now. 
But take all matters pertaining to the Hag 
of Hags with more than a pinch of salt, and 
think on it again on the morrow, for as Baba 
Yaga herself is fond of saying, “There is more 
wisdom in the morning than in the evening.” 
The night walks the same road as dream. And 
if you have a dream of Baba Yaga, it is sure to 
be nightmare. 
At Grandmother’s House
You are very likely to find something strange 
at Grandmother’s house.
BABA YAGA’S CAT
Tiny Beast, Chaotic Neutral
Armor Class 12
Hit Points 10 (4d4)
Speed 40 ft., climb 40 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA 
3 (−4)	 15 (+2)	 10 (+0)	 10 (+0)	 14 (+2)	 12 (+1)
Skills Perception +4, Stealth +4
Senses passive Perception 14
Languages Common, Sylvan; telepathy 
(see below) 
Challenge 0 (10 XP)        Proficiency Bonus +2
Feline Telepathy. Within the confines of 
Baba Yaga’s property, the cat can magically 
command any beast within 60 feet of it, using 
its limited telepathy.
Keen Smell. The cat has advantage on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks that rely on smell.
Actions
Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: +0 to hit, reach 5 
ft., one target. Hit: 1 slashing damage.

--- PAGE 9 ---
7
T
he gulyay-gorod, or “wandering towns,” 
of the Rothenian Plain are a strange sight 
to behold. Whole settlements, safe behind 
sturdy walls, move across the landscape, 
drawn by horses or oxen or even stranger 
creatures. The arrival of such a wandering 
town can evoke wonder and fear in equal 
measure, as one never knows what the 
gulyay‑gorod may bring. Misto Ellel is one of 
the most well-known of the wandering towns 
and is inhabited primarily by bandits, hunters, 
and mystics. The arrival of Misto Ellel brings 
the opportunity for trade and the risk of raids 
by the followers of the Horned Huntsman. 
The Thundering Town. Nearly a mile 
wide, from a distance, Misto Ellel looks like 
a broad, squat hillside, floating across the 
horizon to an accompaniment of what some 
describe as the rumble of thunder, the roar 
of a massive waterfall, or the drumming 
of a rainstorm. At first, it is difficult to see 
what propels the town across the plains, for 
there are no horses or other beasts of burden 
harnessed to the moving structures. Up close, 
however, it becomes obvious: the city rides 
on the backs of hundreds of giant millipedes, 
their thousands of feet beating out a roar like 
a tempest on the hard earth. The marks of the 
city’s passing are obvious in the mile-wide 
MISTO ELLEL: 
THE THUNDERING TOWN  
by Sarah Madsen
swath of trampled grasses, leaving a trail easy 
enough to follow for those bold enough to 
travel in the town’s wake. When at rest, the 
millipedes settle into the earth beneath the 
city’s foundation, allowing the town to settle 
nearly to ground level. 
The town itself is made of the repurposed 
wagons favored by the Kariv, plus whatever 
additional materials the inhabitants have 
been able to scavenge, steal, or barter for 
along the way. Most of the homes and 
structures on the edge of the town are one 
story tall, all the better to hide behind the 
protective wall that rings the entire town, 
but the buildings gradually increase in height 
toward the center of the town. In the middle 
stands a four-story building comprised of 
several interlocking wagons, painted with 
bright colors and topped with a pointed 
cupola. This is the home of Tsura the Bold, 
the matriarch of Misto Ellel. 
Wild and the Fallen 
Misto Ellel is home to many, but the 
population is made up primarily of outcasts 
from the Rothenian Kariv and centaur 
communities. Centaurs that don’t fit in well 
with their clans for whatever reason live 
on the outermost ring of Misto Ellel where

--- PAGE 10 ---
8
they can easily throw open the wide gates in 
the city’s walls and surge onto the plains to 
ride and pillage. Kariv who were exiled by 
their families or find themselves shunned 
by the greater Kariv community often find 
their way to Misto Ellel, where Tsura the 
Bold welcomes all, regardless of reputation. 
Many members of the fallen families, such 
as the Heph, the Galati, and the Kalder, can 
be found within the walls of Misto Ellel, 
and any animosity between them is held in 
tight check, lest they find themselves facing 
Tsura’s harsh judgement. 
TSURA THE BOLD
Tsura the Bold, matriarch of Misto 
Ellel, is a Kariv, though which family she 
originally hailed from remains a mystery 
to most. Given her hold over Misto Ellel 
and her rumored ties with Baba Yaga, 
many believe her to be of the Kalder, 
though the Kalder in Misto Ellel deny 
any family ties with the wandering 
town’s leader, and she steadfastly 
refutes any relation to any one family, 
insisting she’s a leader for all. 
A wide-shouldered but slender woman of 
some forty-odd years, Tsura wears layered 
skirts and is never seen without a saber 
on one hip and a curved, jeweled dagger 
on the other. She laughs easily but angers 
quickly, and she has little patience for those 
who would cause trouble in her town. 
Violence, theft, and raiding are acceptable 
outside the walls of Misto Ellel, but within, 
confrontations that escalate past a scuffle are 
quickly brought to heel. She does not expect 
everyone to get along all the time, but she 
treats Misto Ellel like the family she no longer 
has, and she despises infighting. 
Tsura rose to power quickly after arriving 
in Misto Ellel about five years ago. Many 
attribute her accension to her claims to have 
outwitted Baba Yaga herself. Some say the 
fact that she still remains in power is the 
greatest support of her claim, for surely 
Grandmother would never let such a wild 
and baseless assertion stand, yet others assert 
that if Tsura had indeed outwitted the witch, 
talking loudly of such an accomplishment 
would be the quickest way to earn 
Grandmother’s ire. But despite arguments 
over the origins of her power, the fact 
remains that Tsura the Bold rules Misto Ellel, 
and none have yet seen fit to challenge her. 
Deals with Baba Yaga. Tsura the Bold’s 
claim about Baba Yaga can be considered 
true, when viewed in a certain light. From 
other angles, the deal she brokered with 
Grandmother would be considered foolish 
and will prove to be her inevitable downfall. 
The truth is that Tsura’s power does spring 
from Baba Yaga’s magics. The Kariv bartered 
with the witch, promising to give whatever 
offerings were necessary in exchange for 
rulership over Misto Ellel. Baba Yaga

--- PAGE 11 ---
9
demanded nothing in return except that 
Tsura place a powerful relic, known as the 
Eye of Baba Yaga, at the highest point of the 
city where she could see in every direction at 
all times. The eye now resides in the cupola 
of Tsura’s home, affixed with chains and 
overlooking the town and the plains beyond. 
Only Baba Yaga knows exactly how far—and 
how much—she can see from such a vantage 
and what exactly the eye is capable of. 
KARIV
Many Kariv make their homes within the 
walls of Misto Ellel, making up the majority 
of the population, followed close behind by 
the centaurs. Kariv that live in the wandering 
town may have left their own family, or they 
may belong to one of the more unscrupulous 
Kariv families, such as the Kalder, that find 
suspicion even amongst their own. The Kariv 
of Misto Ellel are not required to give up their 
family ties, nor their loyalty to their blood 
or oaths, but must agree to hold Tsura’s 
authority over all others. 
Tsura welcomes all types to Misto Ellel, 
but the Kariv in the town are certain that, 
if things should come to it, Tsura would 
support them over the rest. Many of the 
non-Kariv share the same belief, and it is not 
unusual to find a Kariv taking advantage of a 
non-Kariv, both under the assumption that is 
how the arrangement should work. Whenever 
Tsura discovers such an arrangement, she is 
quick to disabuse all parties of the notion that 
the Kariv have higher standing than others 
within her town. 
WOTAN’S UNKINDNESS
Though wielding no official power in Misto 
Ellel, a cloister of runemasters—composed of 
spellcasters from a variety of disciplines and 
backgrounds (including a few ravenfolk) but 
all with an expertise in runes—commands 
everyone’s respect, and Tsura regularly seeks 
their counsel, especially regarding magical 
matters. The runemasters are responsible 
for the magical protection and maintenance 
of the town, including summoning the 
giant millipedes (or really whatever form 
of transport is most called for) that carry it 
across the plain.  
The runemasters have perfected their own 
form of magical automatic writing in which 
they create single-use rune scripts that allow 
anyone to benefit from rune magic, similar 
to using a potion. Their services aren’t cheap, 
yet their skills and wares are high in demand 
to those with means.
ZAGHARI AND THE WILD CENTAURS
The wild centaurs of Misto Ellel are, almost 
to a one, worshipers of the Hunter. They have 
been forced from the more civilized centaur 
clans or left due to irreconcilable differences. 
Some young centaurs stumbled upon Misto 
Ellel when they embarked on their bandit 
years and may leave to return to their home 
clans when their time is up. The centaurs 
primarily live along the edge of town, chafing 
at being within the walls, and many prefer 
to ride ahead or alongside the when it’s in 
motion. Special ramps with wheels have 
been rigged to many of the gates and can 
be lowered when the city is on the move, 
allowing the centaurs easy access in and out 
of the city. They hunt and raid throughout 
the day and night, whenever the mood takes 
them, and often returned bathed in blood. 
There is no official leader of the wild 
centaurs within Misto Ellel—Tsura claims 
leadership overall, regardless of race or 
ancestry—but if there was one, Zaghari would 
quickly claim that title. Zaghari is a roan-
colored centaur with deep russet skin and 
black braids in his hair and tail. Zaghari is 
level-headed and patient, and he is renowned 
for his prowess in both battle and the hunt. 
When the centaurs have a dispute that they 
don’t dare bring to Tsura’s attention, they go 
to Zaghari for advice and mediation. Several 
of the younger or more rash centaurs have 
claimed Zaghari could and should unseat

--- PAGE 12 ---
10
Tsura as ruler of Misto Ellel, but Zaghari is 
quick to hush any such talk. It is unknown 
whether he truly has no desire to rule the 
wandering town or if he’s simply quietly 
biding his time, but Tsura seems confident in 
her position and has yet to oust the centaur. 
Centaur Lodges. The Centaurs of Misto 
Ellel gather regularly in longhouses known 
THE EYE OF BABA YAGA 
Suspended from the underside of the cupola 
in the center of Misto Ellel is an eye the size of 
a human fist. Pupils stare out from four sides, 
blending together like an hourglass where they 
meet, the irises around each a different color—
brown, blue, green, and gold. Secured to the 
cupola by four hooks on chains, the eye allows 
Baba Yaga to see everything within Misto Ellel, 
even within homes and behind walls, and out 
into the surrounding area within a 1-mile radius. 
It is through the eye that Baba Yaga monitors 
Tsura, and the wandering nature of Misto Ellel 
allows her to observe the countryside of the 
Rothenian Plain and the peoples within it. 
The Eye of Baba Yaga has darkvision with 
a radius of a mile. If it is destroyed (AC 10, 10 
hp), Baba Yaga knows who destroyed it and 
can pinpoint the location of the creature on 
any plane of existence at any time. Baba Yaga 
may cast bestow curse (9th-level spell slot) 
through the eye once a day with the following 
modification: instead of a range of touch, the 
target must be within the walls of Misto Ellel.

--- PAGE 13 ---
11
as centaur lodges. These buildings are often 
used for rituals to the Horned Huntsman, 
for cleaning, skinning, and tanning, or 
just for social gatherings around barrels of 
mead or ale. A few serve a second, more 
ceremonial purpose, and these are known as 
Blood Lodges to the followers of the Horned 
Huntsman, and those in the know find it no 
surprise that Zaghari leads here as herl of the 
Misto Ellel Lodges. 
Misto Ellel’s Economy
Misto Ellel’s economy subsists on three 
primary pillars: trade, hunting, and bandit 
raids. Within the city, coin of all sorts passes 
hands, and barter is a common occurrence. 
TRADE
Those who are brave enough to venture 
into the wandering town will find goods 
from across the Rothenian Plain, and many 
merchants whisper of the wonderful items 
that can be found within. Trading in Misto 
Ellel carries its risks though as a merchant is 
just as likely to find themselves robbed of all 
of their goods and coin before they even make 
it through the city gates. Many merchants 
hire protection before venturing out to the 
town, or they offer bribes to the centaur 
scouts, or what passes as a city guard, to 
ensure safe passage. A handful of traders have 
arrangements with Tsura herself, and the 
raiders and bandits of Misto Ellel know better 
than to even look at them askance. 
However, with great risk comes great 
reward. Misto Ellel’s wandering nature allows 
the townsfolk to trade with—and steal from—
people of all types. Often, rare items end up 
within the shops and homes here, and the 
owner has little idea of what they truly have 
hanging on their wall or in their display case. 
HUNTING AND RAIDING
Misto Ellel is, at heart, a city of hunters, 
bandits, and raiders. The wild centaurs and 
other worshipers of the Horned Huntsman 
within Misto Ellel carry out routine raids in 
his name, rarely leaving behind survivors. 
Tsura does her best to balance the bloodlust 
of the followers of the Master of the Hunt 
and the needs of the rest of the town, and 
she restricts the bloodiest hunts to when the 
moon is full. She attempts to channel their 
need for carnage to the slaughter of beasts 
and monsters, providing meat and protection 
to Misto Ellel as well as sating the urges of her 
most ferocious citizens. So far, the strategy 
seems to be working, though some of the 
younger, more hot-headed and impulsive 
followers chafe at her restrictions. 
Other, more circumspect hunters also serve 
Misto Ellel, orbiting the wandering town 
in small hunting parties of two to ten. Any 
outsider who stumbles upon such a party 
and proves their worth as a hunter may find 
themselves in the party’s good graces and 
may even find a willing escort to the town. 
Raids on merchant caravans and local 
settlements are common when Misto Ellel is 
nearby, and many villages will fortify their 
security and double or triple the number of 
guards at the sound of rolling thunder on a 
clear day. Occasionally, these raiding parties 
can be bought off with bribes of gold or goods, 
but the spoils of a raid are always brought 
back and shared with the town—and Tsura. 
Locations of Interest
The wandering town is filled with miscreants, 
criminals, and outcasts of all sorts and their 
families—grandparents, parents, spouses, 
siblings, children, grandchildren. Not 
everyone in town has a sordid past, but it’s 
wise to tread lightly when inquiring into 
someone’s history, for many are loathe to 
discuss their mistakes. Just as many, however, 
are proud of their actions and see themselves

--- PAGE 14 ---
12
as an underdog, a freedom fighter, or a 
revolutionary, unwilling to bend their will to 
those that would oppress them. 
AXIS
The Axis is the local name for the four-story 
structure at the heart of Misto Ellel that 
functions as both the town hall and the home 
of Tsura the Bold. The structure is made up 
of several repurposed wagons and brightly 
colored canvas awnings, and it’s topped with 
an open cupola that helps keep the entire 
structure ventilated. It is the largest structure 
in town, and one could easily see miles in 
every direction from its roof—a favorite perch 
for the ravens that always follow the town.
CASLAV’S CABINET OF CURIOSITIES
Caslav’s Cabinet of Curiosities is a tiny shop 
near the edge of town, wedged between a 
centaur lodge and a slaughterhouse. Caslav’s 
Cabinet of Curiosities is no bigger than 
a wagon—and in fact its construction is 
simply a wagon with the wheels removed, 
the bottom flush against the ground. Inside, 
the walls have been covered with rough-cut 
shelving made from scavenged planks, and 
the shelves are cluttered with trinkets, junk, 
and sundry items. 
The eponymous Caslav is a kobold of 
particularly diminutive size, and he stocks 
his shop with whatever items he can barter 
for when a trading caravan passes by or a 
raiding party returns to town—or the items 
he can scavenge from the remnants when 
the more influential merchants have had 
their pick. The items on Caslav’s shelves are 
typically worthless garbage, but every now 
and then, the kobold gets lucky and scoops 
up a valuable (or magical) item that had 
been overlooked. 
A selection of items for sale in Caslav’s 
Cabinet of Curiosities can be found below. 
d12 
ITEM
PRICE 
1
A set of three six-sided sandstone dice with the pips filed off. 
4 cp
2
A dented silver fork missing two tines. 
4 sp
3
A scarred purple leather pouch. 
1 sp
4
A dusty arrangement of silk roses in a silver metal basin.
8 gp
5
A length of fishing twine dotted with semiprecious pebbles. 
3 sp
6
A simple brass hooded lantern that, when lit, projects a racy image of 
two figures embracing.
20 gp
7
A black and red brocade jacket sized to fit an ogre.
5 gp
8
Three white alabaster chess pieces—the queen, a pawn, and a rook—
and one black pawn. 
8 sp
9
A pale-blue rhomboid crystal. It is an Ioun stone of strength mistaken 
for a mundane gemstone. 
1 gp (or 5,000 gp if 
he’s told of its magic)
10
A pair of pink silk shoes with holes worn in the soles.
5 sp
11
A wooden puzzle box shaped like a fox. Caslav has never been able 
to open it. It rattles as if there’s something inside. If opened with a 
successful DC 18 Intelligence check, two human baby teeth (incisors) 
can be found within. 
5 gp
12
A leather dog collar with a tag that reads “Jeannie-Bell.”
1 gp
CASLAV’S CABINET OF CURIOSITIES INVENTORY

--- PAGE 15 ---
13
WAGON WHEEL
The Wagon Wheel is a cramped tavern with 
food, drink, and one tiny room for rent 
above the kitchen (Misto Ellel doesn’t get 
visitors often enough to warrant much in the 
way of lodgings). The exterior of the tavern 
is adorned with wagon wheels, and several 
hang from the low ceiling inside and serve as 
chandeliers, covered in candles and decades’ 
worth of wax. The tables and benches are 
all bolted to the wood floor, and niches are 
carved into the tabletops to help steady plates, 
bowls, and cups in the event of rough terrain 
while the town is on the move. Upstairs 
are the living quarters for the Kariv owner, 
Adrina “Drina” Amel, and her wife, Volca. 
The roof of the tavern is covered in coops 
where Drina and Volca breed raille, a tiny 
flightless bird that serves as the centerpiece 
for much of the tavern’s cuisine.

--- PAGE 16 ---
14
T
he brave and foolhardy souls who 
attempt to catalog the life and deeds 
of Baba Yaga have often wondered at the 
relationship between her and her so-called 
daughters, the beguiling vila. As with many 
of the confusing and conflicting stories about 
Grandmother, there are numerous tales 
explaining the origin of her relationship with 
the vila, but the following tale is one of the 
more common ones.
The Fiend, the Fairy, 
and the Beldam
When she was younger, Baba Yaga had 
many dealings with that diabolical glutton 
Mammon. His coffers swelled with the 
treasures she paid him to gain access to 
the knowledge of the Eleven Hells and the 
hierarchies of arch-devils and demon lords. 
Mammon knew what the crone was gaining 
could be dangerous to other mortals, but 
what damage could a simple witch, even a 
powerful and long-lived one such as her, do 
to one as mighty as him? Satisfied with the 
growing pile of coins, gemstones, and trinkets 
in his treasury, he allowed the deal to stand as 
centuries drifted by.
Grandmother knew Mammon would 
eventually discover his folly in allowing her 
GRANDMOTHER’S DAUGHTERS: 
SECRETS OF THE VILA  
by Kelly Pawlik
such access to his vast body of knowledge. 
She anticipated his reaction and the trickery 
he would use to strip her of what she had 
gained, and she prepared herself for his 
wrath. The wily witch gathered favors, 
performing deeds for whomever might agree 
to her terms, be they a desperate pauper, a 
petty tyrant, or an exalted demigod. 
Some unfathomable span of time later, 
while he performed an accounting of his 
holdings, Mammon realized just how much 
he had profited from Baba Yaga—and 
conversely, how much she had gained from 
him. He realized she had lived well beyond 
what he considered acceptable for a mere 
mortal. The fiend knew in his empty black 
chamber of a heart that the crone had used 
knowledge forbidden to mortals, knowledge 
learned from his own scriptoriums and 
libraries, to achieve her unbelievable age. She 
knew that his desire for wealth would blind 
him to the truth of her treachery. Worse still, 
she had built a loyal following of devotees, 
making her not unlike a deity in her own 
right, and she passed some of the knowledge 
she had stolen from him to her adherents to 
cement their loyalty to her. The hells shook as 
Mammon raged in his realization. But after 
a while, the fiend’s temper cooled. He could 
repair this and show the overblown magician

--- PAGE 17 ---
15
what the cost was for attempting to deceive 
the lord of the Hells.
Mammon disguised himself as a simple 
peddler laden with goods both mundane and 
magical. He set up a blanket at a marketplace 
located at a crossroads on the plains at the foot 
of Demon Mountain, a mortal location close 
to the devil’s husk of a heart. He cried out 
about his incredible wares to all who passed, 
and he cajoled them to spread the word. 
Baba Yaga heard the tale of the peddler on 
the plains, about his stock of bottled worlds, 
genie-filled lamps, and elixirs of eternal 
youth, and she knew the time had come to 
put her preparations to action. She went to 
the market, taking a brief detour to call in a 
favor in the shadowed city of Corremel, where 
the fairy courts held sway. When she saw the 
peddler, she knew at once that she had been 
right. Mammon himself stood before her, 
nearly quaking with bitter mirth at the lesson 
he was going to teach her. 
Grandmother perused the peddler’s 
stock, asking questions about this bottle of 
iridescent pink liquid or that jar holding 
the eye of a dead god. The devil’s patience 
thinned as she slowly looked over every single 
item he had brought with him. She made a 
sour face and turned to go.
“Where are you going?” the peddler asked.
“I don’t see anything here I don’t already 
have,” she explained. “I am looking for 
something no one has ever seen before.” 
The peddler frowned. “I assure you that 
I have what you need. Describe what you 
want, and I will find it,” he said, indicating to 
his bulging pack. 
Baba Yaga pursed her lips, doubtful of his 
proclamation. She thought for a moment. 
“If you can do as you claim, I will give you 
everything I have in exchange.”
Mammon’s eyes shone with 
greed. He licked his lips and 
then repeated, “Describe 
what you want.”
“I want a creature like a horse but a bit 
smaller. It must have four legs and brown fur 
dappled with white,” Grandmother said.
The peddler opened his bag and dug around 
while murmuring. A moment later he pulled 
out a fawn and presented it.
“Here you are. Exactly as you wished,” he 
said. His eyes burned like embers.
“That is just a deer,” Baba Yaga dismissed 
and turned to go. “Obviously you were just 
telling me a story.”
“No, no!” The peddler exclaimed. “I have 
what you want. Describe something else.”
“How about a creature slightly larger than a 
mastiff but with shaggy gray fur,” she inquired.
“Easily done.” He dug in his pack and pulled 
out a wolf cub and presented it to her.
“That is a wolf. They are common in the 
forests not so far from here.
“Of course, they are. I see you are too canny 
for these simple creatures. Try something 
more interesting,” the fiend commanded.
With a nonplussed look she tried again. 
“How about a feline as big as a mountain lion 
but with a feminine intelligence?”

--- PAGE 18 ---
16
The peddler’s brows waggled as he drew 
forth a wampus cat, cursing from its human 
head. “I think it’s time for you to pay up 
now,” he stated. 
“That is a wampus cat. I have seen them 
detailed on a scroll I saw on Totivillus’s table,” 
she stated, waving her hand in boredom.
The peddler clenched his fists. “How about 
something even more fascinating and new?” 
he asked, drawing a deerlike creature with 
the trunk, arms, and head of a human from 
the sack.
Baba Yaga shook her head as a little girl 
shouted, “That’s an alseid. My mama says 
they roam the Margreve Forest.”
“Fine,” shouted Mammon. “Is there no 
one that create something new for this 
impossible‑to‑please woman?”
“It is not so difficult,” said Sarastra, the 
Queen of Night and Magic, stepping from the 
growing crowd. “Though possibly that is not 
true for one with only the creativity granted 
to them by the hells,” she finished.
Mammon ground his teeth but 
smiled as he said, “Milady, please 
demonstrate your skill.”
“Can you make me a creature with 
antlers like a deer, hair as green as 
the grass in spring, skin like the 
wood of the beech tree, and eyes 
as grey as the ocean in autumn?” 
Baba Yaga asked the fey lady.
Sarastra threw three seeds on 
the ground, and each swiftly grew 
into a beautiful woman with features as 
Grandmother described.
“They are new and never seen before by the 
eyes of mortal or immortal,” Sarastra said, 
gesturing at them. “And they are yours if 
you wish them.” She then faded away 
to her home in the Shadow Realm.
Mammon’s eyes crinkled as he 
grinned. “Have you seen these 
before?” he asked.
“No. I think I will call them vila.” 
Baba Yaga replied.
“Call them what you will,” the peddler spat 
back. “It is time for you to pay me now.”
“Pay for what, peddler?” Grandmother 
asked him. “You claimed to have what I 
needed, but you did not. The Queen of Night 
and Magic made these vila.”
Mammon gaped. The crone had tricked 
him again. “There will be a reckoning for this, 
witch.” He disappeared in a burst of flame 
and the stench of brimstone.
“Perhaps,” replied Baba Yaga, “but now I 
have granddaughters. Let us see what they 
can learn.” And she took those first three vila 
and taught them all she knew.
Vila Boons
Whether they gained the ability from their 
association with Baba Yaga or from some 
other divine being or phenomenon, vila can 
grant favors to mortals. Most often, these are 
given as payment for a service a mortal has

--- PAGE 19 ---
17
performed for a vila, but a few magnanimous 
individuals occasionally grant a boon freely 
or on a whim. Some others use their boons in 
a more punitive fashion, where they act more 
as a curse to the recipient than as a benefit. 
Vila boons always have a drawback. It isn’t 
known whether they are able to grant favors 
that are open and free of complication or fey 
trickery, but the fact is that they never do. 
There is always a cost, and that cost must 
always be borne by the recipient of the boon. 
Typical of all fey, the service required from 
a mortal to obtain a vila’s boon often seems 
nonsensical or pointless to the petitioner, and 
the wording of the request itself can obfuscate 
the creature’s true desire. Nonetheless, a vila 
adheres to the letter of any verbal agreement 
she makes with a mortal, and she always 
delivers the favor agreed upon if such an 
agreement was reached before the boon is 
granted. The table on the next page lists a 
number of potential favors a vila might ask 
for in exchange for a boon.
The vila boons listed herein consist of the 
boon’s name, a description of the benefit 
gained by the recipient, and the drawback 
of the boon to be borne by the recipient. 
The drawback associated with each boon is 
a suggestion. If the drawback isn’t fitting for 
your campaign or the character that received 
the boon, you should feel free to assess a 
different, more fitting one.
DANCING HUT
A vila allows you to borrow her dancing, 
chicken-legged hut. The hut can comfortably 
hold six Medium or smaller creatures and has 
a movement rate of 50 feet. As an action, the 
occupants of the hut can speak the name of 
the vila who loaned them the hut to instantly 
transport themselves up to 500 miles to a 
location one of them has visited before while 
the hut remains in the place. Speaking the 
vila’s name again returns all the occupants to 
the interior of the hut. Once the hut has been 
used in this fashion, it can’t be used again 
until dawn the next day.
Duration. One week or until you break your 
promise.
Drawback. Creatures that finish a long 
rest in the hut have disadvantage on the first 
attack roll, saving throw, or ability check they 
make on the following day. 
d20 FAVOR REQUESTED 
1 
Make a promise to nurse an injured animal 
back to health. 
2 
Forswear the eating of venison for one year. 
3 
Lead a small herd of sheep to a nearby 
wolf pack. 
4 
Spend a month planting trees.
5 
Agree to be a vila’s protector for one month.
6 
Plant a vegetable garden.
7 
Drive all the loggers out of the vila’s forest.
8 
Promise to plant a pine tree on four different 
mountaintops.
9 
Only wear clothing made of woven grasses.
10 
Do not wield or wear iron for a fortnight.
11 
Carry a message from the vila to one of the 
lords of the shadow fey.
12 
Spend one hour dancing around a fire each 
night for one month.
13 
Do not curse or swear for one year.
14 
Wear only sandals on your feet for one month.
15 
Free all the livestock owned by a grumpy 
old farmer.
16 
Do not use fire for any purpose, mundane or 
magical, for one week.
17 
Deliver the honey from a sacred beehive to 
an ill-tempered bear.
18 
Sit unmoving on an uncomfortable stump 
for one day.
19 
Agree to carry a horse’s burden for one day.
20 
Remain silent for a week.
VILA REQUESTS

--- PAGE 20 ---
18
GRANDMOTHER’S HONEY
You are given a small pot filled with fragrant 
honey. As an action, you can rub a handful 
of the honey on yourself to gain resistance 
to fire and lightning damage for 1 minute. 
Once you have used the honey, you can’t do 
so again until dawn the next day. At the end 
of the duration, the pot crumbles, and any 
honey remaining crystalizes.
Duration. One month or until you break 
your promise.
Drawback. Bees, stinging insects, and 
stirges are attracted to you. Giant wasps and 
similar creatures have advantage on attack 
rolls against you. 
HUMMINGBIRD HEART
For the duration, when you use your action to 
Dash, your movement is equal to three times 
your speed, after applying any modifiers, 
and you have advantage on Dexterity saving 
throws until the start of your next turn.
Duration. One day or until you break your 
promise.
Drawback. If you don’t move on one of 
your turns, your movement is reduced to 20 
feet until the turn after you move again. 
NATURE GUT
For the duration, you can subsist on grass, 
leaves, bark, and moss and are immune 
to the dangerous or debilitating effects of 
plant‑based foodstuffs, such as alcohol. As a 
bonus action, you can recover hit points as 
though you had expended a Hit Die. Once 
you have recovered hit points, you must 
finish a long rest before you can do so again.
Duration. One week or until you break your 
promise.
Drawback. Herbivores and omnivores, such 
as bears, focus their attention and attacks on 
you over other targets.
THUNDER TONGUE
For the duration, your voice is amplified to 
a volume that can be heard clearly for 1,000 
feet, regardless of other noise in the area, such 
as hurricane winds, a collapsing tower, or a 
roaring dragon. If you cast a spell with verbal 
components, your allies are heartened by the 
sound of your voice and have advantage on 
saving throws until the beginning of your 
next turn. 
Duration. One week or until you break your 
promise.
Drawback. Every creature within 500 feet of 
you that can hear, hears every word you speak, 
regardless of how quiet you think you are.
Wayward Daughters 
of Baba Yaga
Not all vila venerate, or even respect Baba 
Yaga. Some of them have gone so far as to 
band together with mortals to counter her 
machinations and wrest some of the old 
witch’s power away from her. These groups 
focus their activities on divining where 
objects Grandmother will be drawn to are 
located and taking possession of them. Often, 
this means moving the item in question to the 
Shadow Realm or the Summer Lands, where 
the vila feel the native populations of fey can 
keep them safer than mortals can. 
These groups don’t officially have a name, 
though some of the members ironically 
refer to themselves as wayward daughters, 
for they don’t feel like they are anyone’s 
daughters. Each cell of wayward daughters 
is self-contained, rarely numbering more 
than a dozen members, though groups of 
them do occasionally intermingle with other 
groups, especially to pull off more dangerous 
undertakings. Groups seek outside assistance 
from time to time as well, hiring specialists 
as the need arises. As often as not, these 
specialists are paid in vila boons and magical 
items rather than coin.

--- PAGE 21 ---
19
The largest numbers of wayward daughters 
can be found in places Baba Yaga is known 
to frequent, such as the Rothenian Plain 
or the Margreve Forest. The Blood 
Kingdoms can also boast many cells 
as can the Grand Duchy of Dornig. 
Most other regions host one or two 
small cells that often require assistance 
in pulling off their operations. 
JOINING THE 
WAYWARD DAUGHTERS
Wayward daughters are very selective 
about whom they allow into their 
tight‑knit cells. A prospective mortal 
member might assist a cell with a 
dozen or more missions over a 
handful of years before they are 
offered full-time membership 
by the vila in charge. An ideal 
candidate for membership has 
few familial bonds or intimate 
friendships when they join, 
though they will likely build strong 
bonds with those of their cell. 
Prospective members can 
expect to have their loyalty and 
wits tested at random intervals by the 
existing members of the group. As Baba Yaga 
is known to be a powerful witch, tests are 
aimed at ensuring a potential recruit can see 
through illusions, overcome enchantments, 
resist being transformed against their will, 
and endure any physical tortures they are 
subjected to. Wayward daughters that 
come from the mortal world need to be 
well rounded with strong physical skills, a 
reasonable body of knowledge, and the ability 
to interact with others without drawing 
attention to themselves. Despite their 
name, there is no bias with regard to gender 
amongst the wayward daughters, and any 
mortal that meets their exacting requirements 
can find admittance eventually.
WHAT IS EXPECTED OF A MEMBER
Wayward daughters must be subtle, swift, 
and sometimes ruthless. Operations requiring 
theft, destruction of personal property, and 
assassination are carried out with enough 
frequency that individuals who are overly 
concerned with matters of right and wrong 
or who have a very black and white view of 
morality have a hard time coping. The general 
methodology of a wayward daughter cell is to 
discover something, be it an object, person, 
or situation, that Grandmother Baba Yaga 
might take an interest in and remove it from 
her sphere of influence, no matter how that 
needs to be done.

--- PAGE 22 ---
20
After an operation, the cell leader expects 
that members will remain silent about it. The 
details are to remain secret and unspoken, 
except possibly to one another. Wayward 
daughters that can’t maintain discretion are 
dealt with harshly. It isn’t unheard of for a 
member who has run afoul of their own cell 
to have their memory permanently erased or 
to simply to be executed.
ALLIES AND ENEMIES
Not surprisingly, the biggest enemy of the 
wayward daughters is Baba Yaga herself. 
The canny old witch has more power and 
influence at her disposal than any cell of 
daughters can muster. Baba Yaga’s agents are 
also a danger to the groups. Her adherents 
will stop at nothing to gain Grandmother’s 
favor, and delivering a single member, let 
alone an entire cell, to her is a sure way to 
win ancient and forbidden knowledge.
Despite the fear that the wayward daughters 
have about Baba Yaga’s attention, no known 
cells of them have ever been the subject of 
her aggression. It isn’t known if the crone 
is aware of these so-called daughters of hers 
that work against her interests, but some 
of the vila leaders wonder if they aren’t just 
working toward Baba Yaga’s inscrutable 
goals somehow. 
BENEFITS OF BEING 
A WAYWARD DAUGHTER
Given the difficulty of gaining membership, 
the benefits of joining a cell of wayward 
daughters are significant for mortals:
•	 If they are within 60 feet of another 
wayward daughter, a member can add 
their proficiency bonus to initiative 
checks.
•	 Members have advantage on Dexterity 
(Stealth) checks while on a mission for 
their cell.
•	 Members are immune to the Dance of 
the Luckless and Fascinate abilities of 
all vila.
•	 Members have advantage on saving 
throws to avoid being put to sleep or 
magically knocked unconscious.
WAYWARD DAUGHTER 
ADVENTURE HOOKS
Baba Yaga has agents and interests all over 
Midgard, so the wayward daughters can 
be found anywhere, working to curtail her 
power and influence. Consider the following 
hooks to involve them in your campaign:
•	 A beautiful, antlered woman approaches 
the party’s leader and inquires if their 
services are available. She needs to 
recover the staff a cagey wizard stole 
from her—and if the wizard ends up 
dead in the process, so much the better.
•	 The party, while seeking a relic in a 
tomb, encounters a group of wayward 
daughters seeking the same artifact. The 
daughters are willing to use whatever 
means are necessary to fulfill their 
objective.
•	 One of Grandmother’s agents hires the 
party to investigate a series of thefts in 
town. A cell of wayward daughters has 
been stealing magical trinkets to keep 
Baba Yaga from gaining control of 
them. Both groups are actually seeking 
an artifact they suspect to be in the town 
and the agent that hires the party is 
hoping they’ll stumble into it first.

--- PAGE 23 ---
21
T
he gnomes of Niemheim are not the 
only gnomes of Midgard, but they are 
by far the best known. Mostly, this is because 
they are particularly dangerous and entirely 
willing to kidnap, murder, and steal as needed 
to protect their strange woodland realm. 
These evil gnomes are justly infamous 
for their troubles with Baba Yaga and their 
tightly entwined relationship with the hells. 
And they are closely allied with the one they 
call the Master of Knives—better known 
elsewhere as the arch-devil Parzelon, the 
Lord of Secrets.
Recent Gnomish History
While most know the story that a gnomish 
prince named Vander Steingau broke a sworn 
blood oath to Baba Yaga 200 years ago, rather 
fewer know that Prince Steingau did so in 
order to steal magical power from Baba Yaga 
to fuel his own ambitions. He stole two items: 
one being the Ebony Star, a magical gemstone 
said to contain the soul of Baba Yaga’s 
grandchild, and the other being a book of 
her secrets, sometimes called Grandmother’s 
Grimoire or the Oxtail Libram, after the oxtail 
that the tanner left on the book’s leather 
cover. Neither item is well known outside of 
gnomish arcanist circles.
NIEMHEIM: NOTES 
ON GNOMISH DIABOLISM  
by Wolfgang Baur
To recover them, Baba Yaga sent her ala 
hags and strigoi, her vila, her psoglav, and 
her ravens to capture and question and 
destroy gnomes to punish them for Steingau’s 
betrayal. The prince took the book and black 
gem to the Eleven Hells where Baba Yaga 
couldn’t find him—and Niemheim suffered 
until King Redbeard made his pact with 
Parzelon (see Creature Codex).
IN SERVICE TO THE LORD OF SECRETS 
Because Parzelon is the Lord of Secrets, he 
prizes secret knowledge highly and always 
seeks to acquire more, stealing them so 
that they are no one’s but his. Thus, when 
Steingau raised such ire from Baba Yaga 
and made off with prized treasures, well, the 
possibility of protecting a few gnomes and 
gaining priceless information from Baba Yaga 
was rather irresistible. 
As a result, Parzelon has expanded his cult 
widely among the Niemheim gnomes, though 
his name is not known to those who do not 
traffic in diabolism. The Lord of Secrets 
granted the gnomes spells to summon allies 
and to hide gnomish travel and activities from 
others. At the same time, Parzelon is cautious 
of devoting too much attention to Niemheim: 
he has rivals in Chernobog and Mammon, 
and each seeks the gnomes’ devotion for

--- PAGE 24 ---
22
themselves. And while the gnomes are fearful, 
they are also clever, and their king seeks to 
end their reliance on infernal aid. 
In practical terms, Parzelon sends various 
fiends to Niemheim (spree demons, see 
Creature Codex, bearded devils, and others) 
to protect the gnomes, and in return, the 
gnomes provide a steady supply of sacrifices 
and learn all the secrets they can with spies, 
arcane scrying, and outright theft from 
humans, undead, and Baba Yaga’s allies—all 
while keeping his own name hidden insofar 
as possible. Most gnomes, even members of 
the Eleven Knives and affiliated tinkers and 
scouts, simply refer to him as Our Patron, 
the Master of Knives, King of the Eleven 
Havens, and similar circumlocutions. Their 
gratitude is quite real though, and stories tell 
of the “lost generation” of gnomish children, 
thousands and thousands of them, taken into 
Grandmother’s stewpots and never seen again.
CULT OF CHERNOBOG 
AND THE DARK FIVE
The older faith among the gnomes included 
worship of Yarila and Porevit as well as 
Hecate and Rava—with some attention paid 
to Lada as gnomish goddess of healing, light, 
and luck. All of that worship though (except 
for Lada) is long gone, referred to as 
the Ancient Five but rarely. Lada alone 
retains some minor attention in temples 
otherwise given over to Chernobog, the 
Goat of the Woods, Mammon, Marena, 
and Parzelon: the Five Dark Protectors.
The faith of Chernobog, the god 
of night and murder, was always 
part of the darkness under the 
deep shade of the Wormwood 
Forest, but in times past, it was 
rooted out and extinguished by 
brave gnomish heroes. At best, it was 
a cult for bandits and necromancers. 
For 200 years though, it has served as 
a cloak of darkness over the gnomes 
of Niemheim, for Chernobog 
was the gnomes’ first protector—before the 
bargain with Parzelon was struck.
Now, there is a high priest of Chernobog 
in the city of Königsheim, with his hellspur 
cavaliers to carry out his orders, and his 
priesthood is in every village, ready to blind 
the eyes of Baba Yaga’s servants—or indeed 
the eyes of the undead of Morgau or the 
centaurs of the Rothenian Plain. Unlike 
Parzelon, the priests of Chernobog require 
far less blood and sacrifice, only fervent 
prayers and the annual soul of a young gnome 
or human brought to the Black Spire of 
Chernobog in Königsheim at midwinter.
GNOMISH TINKER SCOUTS 
The gnomes of Niemheim send out scouts, 
posed as bards, tinkers, pilgrims, cloth and 
leather merchants, and other generally 
beneficial persons, visiting Morgau, Zobeck, 
Vidim, Perunalia, and the Magdar Kingdom 
with goods to trade. What they are really 
seeking are sacrifices for Parzelon though, 
and most have a small wagon used to carry off 
abducted victims to the nearest forest grove for 
dispatch from this mortal world (see sidebar).

--- PAGE 25 ---
23
GNOMISH TINKER SCOUT
Small Humanoid (Gnome), Any Evil
Armor Class 13 (leather) 
Hit Points 32 (5d6 + 15) 
Speed 30 ft. 
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
8 (−1)	 14 (+2)	 16 (+3)	 11 (+0)	 12 (+1)	 17 (+3)
Skills Deception +5, Perception +3, Persuasion 
+5, Stealth +4
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 13 
Languages Abyssal, Common, Gnomish 
Challenge 1/2 (100 XP)   Proficiency Bonus +2 
Knife Familiar. The tinker scout has a knife 
familiar (see below). 
Actions
Ritual Knife. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, 
reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 4 (1d4 + 2) slashing 
damage plus 7 (2d6) poison damage.
Spellcasting. The tinker scout casts one of 
the following spells, using Charisma as the 
spellcasting ability (spell save DC 13):
At will: avert the eye*, horn of Parzelon*, 
spider climb
3/day each: bless, hat trick* 
1/day: haste
(*) see below
KNIFE FAMILIAR 
Tiny Construct, Unaligned
Armor Class 18 (natural)
Hit Points 14 (4d6)
Speed 0 ft., fly 40 ft. (hover)
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
8 (−1)	 18 (+ 4)	 10 (+ 0)	 1 (−5)	 5 (−3)	 1 (−5)
Saving Throws Dex +6
Damage Immunities poison, psychic
Condition Immunities blinded, charmed, 
deafened, frightened, paralyzed, petrified, 
poisoned
Senses blindsight 60 ft. (blind beyond this 
radius), passive Perception 7
Languages one language that its master 
knows; telepathy (with master only)
Challenge 1/4 (50 XP)    Proficiency Bonus +2
Antimagic Susceptibility. The knife familiar is 
incapacitated while in the area of an antimagic 
field. If targeted by dispel magic, the knife 
familiar must succeed on a Constitution saving 
throw against the caster’s spell save DC or fall 
unconscious for 1 minute.
False Appearance. While the knife familiar 
remains motionless and isn’t flying, it is 
indistinguishable from a normal knife.
Telepathy. A knife familiar can speak 
telepathically to its master and tell them 
everything it has seen or done within roughly a 
one-week period. Its memory is fleeting, and it 
can’t remember events more than a week ago.
Actions
Diabolical Knife. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 
to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d4 + 4) 
slashing damage.
NINE SWORDS OF NIEMHEIM 
The nine cities and towns of Niemheim are said 
to be linked to nine swords of the gnomish 
princes of old, blades forged by the finest 
gnomish bladesmiths, long before the pact of 
Redbeard and Parzelon and the corruption of 
the gnomes. Some say the blades were gifts 
of the elves, later corrupted by Parzelon, the 
Hunter, the Black Goat of the Woods, and other 
dark gods. A few believe that recovering these 
swords might grant the gnomes the favor of 
Mavros, the war god, and allow them to defend 
themselves, rather than relying on the hells 
for their protection. Certainly, King Redbeard 
thinks so and has sought to recover them.

--- PAGE 26 ---
24
Cult of Eleven Knives 
The Eleven Knives is a cult of gnomes devoted 
to maintaining, strengthening, and expanding 
the deal made with Parzelon. Their public face 
is the charming blade and bon vivant Corvin 
Hallowell (LE gnomish knife cultist, see 
Creature Codex), their director and demon 
summoner is the slovenly but talented young 
Magda Venyn (LE gnome mage), and their 
ally and liaison to the hells is one Frexxis 
(bearded devil). Between the three of them, 
the cult is quiet and effective.
Working with dozens or hundreds of 
gnomish tinker scouts, the members of 
the cult find victims and sacrifice them to 
Parzelon with remarkable and bloodthirsty 
efficiency. Bearded devils, spree demons (see 
Creature Codex), and the occasional pair of 
twin gnomish assassins all keep the Eleven 
Knives on a bloody road. In exchange, the 
devils keep working to protect every gnomish 
village and town from all enemies.
BLOOD MAGIC & BLOOD FEEDERS
The Eleven Knives counts among its members 
one of the greatest blood mages in Midgard—
the mother of blades herself, the Hand of 
Marena and the scourge of the faithless, 
Churaya Heart’s Desire (LE gnome blood 
mage, see Creature Codex). She is said to 
forge many of the cult’s best blades, and she 
enchants them with blood magic to make 
blood feeder weapons (see below), which cause 
wounds to continue bleeding—most of which 
are in the hands of the Eleven Knives.
Spells such as blood armor, blood tide, and 
bloody smite (see Deep Magic for these spells) 
are common tools among members of the 
knife cult. 
BLOOD FEEDER WEAPON 
Weapon (Any Piercing or Slashing), Very Rare 
Damage from this weapon causes wounds 
that continue to bleed. When a creature takes 
damage from this magic weapon, it takes 
additional damage at the start of its next turn, 
equal to half the original damage inflicted. If 
the creature receives any amount of healing 
or makes a DC 15 Wisdom (Medicine) check 
before its next turn, it does not take this 
additional damage.
In addition, if you score a critical hit with 
this weapon, you heal a number of hit points 
equal to the damage dealt.
Gnomish Spellwork
These following spells are best known among 
the gnomes of Niemheim. A few have made 
their way into other hands or are known 
among tieflings and diabolists with ties to 
Chernobog, Parzelon, or the Eleven Hells.
PROPER SACRIFICES 
The sacrifices sought by the spawn of Parzelon 
and their master in exchange for protection 
from Baba Yaga are steep but far less so than 
the decimation wrought by Baba Yaga when 
her cauldron was filled hourly with gnomish 
flesh, especially that of young gnomes. The 
sacrifices to Parzelon seem like a bargain in 
comparison: each month, 12 black goats, a 
handful of humans, and whatever vila, vampires, 
and darakhul the Eleven Knives and their 
tinker scouts can capture, trick, and bind as an 
offering. The offerings are kept out of sight of 
the general population of Niemheim, who lead 
their lives in willful ignorance. 
Each such sacrifice is made under the dark 
forest branches (ideally in the Wormwood itself 
but any grove will do) with a quick cut, leaving 
the victim’s blood to seep out into the earth or 
onto a large stone, sometimes with a candle. 
Having the blessing of a gnomish scout or priest 
always helps, as does the assistance of an infernal 
familiar (see find diabolical familiar spell below) 
or an actual devil or spawn of Parzelon (see 
Parzelon in Creature Codex).

--- PAGE 27 ---
25
AVERT THE EYE 
Illusion Cantrip | Bard, Druid, Sorcerer, 
Warlock, Wizard
Casting Time: 1 action 
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a glass eye or marble)
Duration: Concentration, up to 3 rounds 
By wrapping your hand around a small 
eyelike object, you become invisible until 
the spell ends. Anything you are wearing or 
carrying is invisible as long as it is on your 
person. The spell ends if you attack or cast 
another spell.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell 
using a spell slot of 1st level or higher, you can 
extend the duration by 1 round for each slot 
level (2 rounds at 1st and 3 rounds at 2nd).
CLOAK OF CHERNOBOG 
3rd-Level Evocation | Cleric, Sorcerer, 
Warlock, Wizard
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, M (a hat of black bear fur, 
worn during casting)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour 
Magical darkness spreads from a point you 
choose within range to fill a 60-foot-radius 
sphere for the duration. The darkness spreads 
around corners. A creature with darkvision 
can’t see through this darkness, and 
nonmagical light can’t illuminate it. However, 
gnomes can see in this darkness normally. 
This spell is typically cast on the cloak of a 
priest of Chernobog leading an expedition.
If the point you choose is on an object you 
are holding or one that isn’t being worn or 
carried, the darkness emanates from the 
object and moves with it. 
If any of this spell’s area overlaps an area of 
light created by a spell of 3rd level or lower, 
the spell that created the light is dispelled.
FIND DIABOLICAL FAMILIAR 
2nd-Level Conjuration (Ritual) | Wizard
Casting Time: 1 hour 
Range: 10 feet
Components: V, S, M (100 gp worth of 
charcoal, rich incense, and a written 
contract that must be consumed by fire in 
an iron brazier)
Duration: Instantaneous 
This spell is identical to the find familiar 
spell, but it is used only by diabolists to 
summon fiendish, corrupted, or undead 
familiars. Instead of the usual spirits, you 
gain the services of one of the following: 
d20 
RESULT
CR 
1–6 
Lemure 
0
7
Stirge
1/8
8
Dretch 
1/4
9
Ghoul Bat (TOB2)
1/4
10
Kalke (TOB)
1/4
11
Corrupted Pixie (TOB2)
1/2
12
Fire Imp (CC)
1/2
13
Skin Bat (TOB)
1/2
14
Gumienniki (CC)
1
15
Imp 
1
16
Quasit 
1
17
Ink Devil (TOB)
2
18
Kuunganisha (CC)
2
19 
Wind Demon (CC)
2
20
Bearded Devil
3
(CC) see Creature Codex, (TOB) see Tome of 
Beasts, (TOB2) see Tome of Beasts 2
Appearing in an unoccupied space within 
range, the familiar has its typical statistics. 
Your familiar acts independently of you, 
and it chooses whether or not to obey your 
commands—a spiteful familiar may work 
against you.

--- PAGE 28 ---
26
GNOMISH TONGUE 
1st-Level Transmutation | Bard, Cleric, 
Druid, Sorcerer
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a bit of fox fur)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour 
You have advantage on Deception and 
Persuasion checks and on saving throws 
against spells that do psychic damage or 
affect the mind, provided they have a verbal 
component.
HAT TRICK 
1st-Level Transmutation | Wizard
Casting Time: 1 action 
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a hat and a small 
silver triangle with hinges worth 50 gp)
Duration: 1 hour 
You touch a hat and create an invisible 
entrance within it that opens to an 
extradimensional space that lasts until the 
spell ends. The extradimensional space can be 
reached by reaching into the hat. The space 
can hold one Medium or smaller creature 
and its carried goods, or up to 100 pounds 
of unliving material. The hat always weighs 
about 1 pound, regardless of its contents.
The hat cannot be pulled into itself. Attacks 
and spells can’t cross through the entrance 
into or out of the extradimensional space, but 
a creature inside can see out of it through a 
small slit as wide as the hat. Anything inside 
the extradimensional space drops out when 
the spell ends or when the hat is destroyed.
Gnomish casters often crawl into their own 
hat to avoid detection or to be carried safely 
from town to town.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell 
using a spell slot greater than 1st, you extend 
the duration by 1 hour for each additional 
level, and the extradimensional space can 
hold one additional creature, or an additional 
100 pounds. 
HORN OF PARZELON 
1st-Level Evocation | Bard, Cleric, Sorcerer, 
Warlock, Wizard
Casting Time: 1 action 
Range: Self (10-foot radius)
Components: V, S, M (a hunting horn worth 
200 gp, not consumed in the casting)
Duration: Instantaneous 
You blow a hunting horn, creating a burst 
of noise that can be heard at a distance up 
to 3 miles away in open air or up to 900 feet 
in caverns or tunnels. Each creature in a 
10-foot-radius sphere centered on you must 
make a Constitution saving throw, taking 
1d8 thunder damage on a failed save or half 
as much damage on a successful one. 
Gnomes and evil-aligned creatures hearing 
the horn know that they are called by the 
arch-devil or his servants. They know the 
location and direction of the horn’s casting 
and move toward it with preternatural speed. 
One or more creatures arrive at the caster’s 
location within 2d6 rounds. The exact nature 
of the creature depends on the area where the 
spell was cast.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell 
using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the 
damage increases by 1d8 for each slot level 
above 1st, and the distance increases by 1 
mile, or 300 feet underground, per level.
LION OF PARZELON 
5th-Level Conjuration | Cleric, Wizard
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: 90 feet
Components: V, S, M (blood and a knife)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour 
You call forth a spree demon (as per 
Creature Codex). Choose a space within 
range, and the demon appears in an 
unoccupied space within 10 feet of it. The 
demon disappears when it drops to 0 hit 
points or when the spell ends. The demon 
is friendly to you and your companions for 
the duration. Roll initiative for the demon,

--- PAGE 29 ---
27
which has its own turns. It obeys any verbal 
commands that you issue to it (no action 
required by you). 
If you don’t issue any commands to the 
demon, it attacks the nearest living creatures, 
including members of your party. If your 
concentration is broken, the demon 
doesn’t disappear. Instead, you lose 
control of the demon, it becomes 
hostile toward you personally, and 
it might attack. An uncontrolled 
demon can’t be dismissed by you, 
and it disappears 1 hour after you 
summoned it. The GM has the 
spree demon’s statistics.
SUMMON SPAWN OF CHERNOBOG
4th-Level Conjuration | Cleric, Wizard
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: 90 feet
Components: V, S, M (charcoal and a 
knife)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour 
You call forth a spawn of Chernobog 
(see Creature Codex). Choose a space 
within range, and the spawn appears in an 
unoccupied space within 10 feet of it. The 
spawn disappears when it drops to 0 hit 
points or when the spell ends. The spawn 
is friendly to you and your companions for 
the duration. Roll initiative for the spawn, 
which has its own turns. It obeys any verbal 
commands that you issue to it (no action 
required by you). 
If you don’t issue any commands to the 
spawn, it attacks the nearest living creatures 
if in darkness or twilight or disappears 1 
round later if in sunlight or bright light. If 
your concentration is broken, the spawn 
doesn’t disappear. Instead, you lose control 
of the spawn, it becomes hostile toward 
you personally, and it might attack. An 
uncontrolled spawn of Chernobog can’t be 
dismissed by you, and it disappears 1 hour 
after you summoned it. The GM has the 
spawn of Chernobog’s statistics.
WORD OF PARZELON 
2nd-Level Divination (Ritual) | Cleric
Casting Time: 1 minute 
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (blood from a bird)
Duration: Instantaneous 
By splattering blood on a stone or in dust, 
you may receive a single-word answer from 
the arch-devil Parzelon about a specific 
person, place, or object within 5 miles or 
about a specific action you plan to take within 
the next 30 minutes. Roll on the following 
table, using your spellcasting modifier:
d20 
RESULT
1
No response
2−6
Garbled word in a language not known 
to the caster
7−10 Answer is vague and potentially misleading
11−16
Answer is accurate, punny, or clever but 
not helpful
17−19 Answer is accurate and clear
20+
A precise and helpful answer

--- PAGE 30 ---
28
OPEN GAME LICENSE Version 1.0a 
The following text is the property of Wizards of the Coast, 
Inc. and is Copyright 2000 Wizards of the Coast, Inc 
(“Wizards”). All Rights Reserved. 
1. Definitions: (a)”Contributors” means the copyright 
and/or trademark owners who have contributed 
Open Game Content; (b)”Derivative Material” means 
copyrighted material including derivative works and 
translations (including into other computer languages), 
potation, modification, correction, addition, extension, 
upgrade, improvement, compilation, abridgment or other 
form in which an existing work may be recast, transformed 
or adapted; (c) “Distribute” means to reproduce, license, 
rent, lease, sell, broadcast, publicly display, transmit or 
otherwise distribute; (d)”Open Game Content” means the 
game mechanic and includes the methods, procedures, 
processes and routines to the extent such content does 
not embody the Product Identity and is an enhancement 
over the prior art and any additional content clearly 
identified as Open Game Content by the Contributor, 
and means any work covered by this License, including 
translations and derivative works under copyright law, 
but specifically excludes Product Identity. (e) “Product 
Identity” means product and product line names, logos 
and identifying marks including trade dress; artifacts; 
creatures characters; stories, storylines, plots, thematic 
elements, dialogue, incidents, language, artwork, 
symbols, designs, depictions, likenesses, formats, poses, 
concepts, themes and graphic, photographic and other 
visual or audio representations; names and descriptions 
of characters, spells, enchantments, personalities, 
teams, personas, likenesses and special abilities; places, 
locations, environments, creatures, equipment, magical or 
supernatural abilities or effects, logos, symbols, or graphic 
designs; and any other trademark or registered trademark 
clearly identified as Product identity by the owner of the 
Product Identity, and which specifically excludes the Open 
Game Content; (f) “Trademark” means the logos, names, 
mark, sign, motto, designs that are used by a Contributor 
to identify itself or its products or the associated products 
contributed to the Open Game License by the Contributor 
(g) “Use”, “Used” or “Using” means to use, Distribute, 
copy, edit, format, modify, translate and otherwise create 
Derivative Material of Open Game Content. (h) “You” or 
“Your” means the licensee in terms of this agreement.
2. The License: This License applies to any Open Game 
Content that contains a notice indicating that the Open 
Game Content may only be Used under and in terms of 
this License. You must affix such a notice to any Open 
Game Content that you Use. No terms may be added to 
or subtracted from this License except as described by the 
License itself. No other terms or conditions may be applied 
to any Open Game Content distributed using this License. 
3. Offer and Acceptance: By Using the Open Game 
Content You indicate Your acceptance of the terms of 
this License. 
4. Grant and Consideration: In consideration for 
agreeing to use this License, the Contributors grant You 
a perpetual, worldwide, royalty-free, nonexclusive license 
with the exact terms of this License to Use, the Open 
Game Content. 
5. Representation of Authority to Contribute: If You 
are contributing original material as Open Game Content, 
You represent that Your Contributions are Your original 
creation and/or You have sufficient rights to grant the 
rights conveyed by this License. 
6. Notice of License Copyright: You must update the 
COPYRIGHT NOTICE portion of this License to include 
the exact text of the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any Open 
Game Content You are copying, modifying or distributing, 
and You must add the title, the copyright date, and the 
copyright holder’s name to the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of 
any original Open Game Content you Distribute. 
7. Use of Product Identity: You agree not to Use 
any Product Identity, including as an indication as to 
compatibility, except as expressly licensed in another, 
independent Agreement with the owner of each element 
of that Product Identity. You agree not to indicate 
compatibility or co-adaptability with any Trademark 
or Registered Trademark in conjunction with a work 
containing Open Game Content except as expressly 
licensed in another, independent Agreement with the 
owner of such Trademark or Registered Trademark. 
The use of any Product Identity in Open Game Content 
does not constitute a challenge to the ownership of that 
Product Identity. The owner of any Product Identity used 
in Open Game Content shall retain all rights, title and 
interest in and to that Product Identity.
8. Identification: If you distribute Open Game Content 
You must clearly indicate which portions of the work that 
you are distributing are Open Game Content. 
9. Updating the License: Wizards or its designated 
Agents may publish updated versions of this License. You 
may use any authorized version of this License to copy, 
modify and distribute any Open Game Content originally 
distributed under any version of this License. 
10. Copy of this License: You MUST include a copy of 
this License with every copy of the Open Game Content 
You Distribute. 
11. Use of Contributor Credits: You may not market 
or advertise the Open Game Content using the name of 
any Contributor unless You have written permission from 
the Contributor to do so. 
12. Inability to Comply: If it is impossible for You to 
comply with any of the terms of this License with respect 
to some or all of the Open Game Content due to statute, 
judicial order, or governmental regulation then You may 
not Use any Open Game Material so affected. 
13. Termination: This License will terminate 
automatically if You fail to comply with all terms herein 
and fail to cure such breach within 30 days of becoming 
aware of the breach. All sublicenses shall survive the 
termination of this License. 
14. Reformation: If any provision of this License is held 
to be unenforceable, such provision shall be reformed 
only to the extent necessary to make it enforceable. 
15. COPYRIGHT NOTICE 
Open Game License v 1.0a Copyright 2000, Wizards of 
the Coast, Inc. 
System Reference Document 5.0 Copyright 2016, 
Wizards of the Coast, Inc.; Authors Mike Mearls, Jeremy 
Crawford, Chris Perkins, Rodney Thompson, Peter Lee, 
James Wyatt, Robert J. Schwalb, Bruce R. Cordell, Chris 
Sims, and Steve Townshend, based on original material by 
E. Gary Gygax and Dave Arneson.
Warlock 34: Baba Yaga. ©2022 Open Design LLC. 
Authors: Lou Anders, Wolfgang Baur, Sarah Madsen, Kelly 
Pawlik.

--- PAGE 32 ---
SUPPORTED BY 
 $9.99 
Printed in USA