--- PAGE 1 ---
A 5E WARLOCK MIDGARD ADVENTURE 
BY JON SAWATSKY
 The 
Returners’  
  Tower
FOR 
4 PCS OF 
4TH—5TH 
LEVEL

--- PAGE 2 ---
Kobold Press, Midgard, Open Design, and their associated logos  
are trademarks of Open Design.
Product Identity: The following items are hereby identified as Product Identity, 
as defined in the Open Game License version 1.0a, Section 1(e), and are not 
Open Content: All trademarks, registered trademarks, proper names (characters, 
place names, new deities, etc.), dialogue, plots, story elements, locations, 
characters, artwork, sidebars, and trade dress. (Elements that have previously 
been designated as Open Game Content are not included in this declaration.)
Open Game Content: The Open content in this book includes the trap 
mechanics and the azza gremlins.
© 2018 Open Design
www.koboldpress.com
the elves will return is a lie, of course, told to convince naive 
disciples, such as Ralio. In truth, the beacon is a weapon that 
Yenithia plans to use against the garrison of Valeran soldiers 
in hopes of stoking the tensions at the border.
The arcs of electrical energy are visible from Tarrini, and 
the town grows concerned. While investigating the tower, 
the characters find it guarded by traps and Returner cultists; 
crackling gremlins lair in the upper chambers, having made 
a mutually beneficial arrangement with Ralio. The doubting 
recruit might be reasoned with at the top-most level, where 
the dreadful weapon is nearly complete. The characters will 
have little time however, as the banshee soon arrives to test 
her new invention.
I will light a beacon bright enough to reach the very edge of our world. 
Every creature will see our greatest hope—the return of the elves.
THE RETURNERS’ TOWER
Design: Jon Sawatsky
Editing: Blaine McNutt 
Art Director & Graphic Design: Marc Radle
Cover Art: Karl Waller
Cartography: Dyson Logos
Publisher: Wolfgang Baur
Background
TM
Tarrini, a small border town between Valera and Triolo, 
has been a reluctant addition to the Valeran territories. 
A resentment toward the Valeran rulership simmers, 
and a fully equipped military garrison is stationed there 
indefinitely. Several ruined elven towers persist in the hills 
around the town, and it is there, in one such tower, that the 
Returners lurk and plot.
Yenithia the Gilded, an elven banshee and a prominent 
leader of the Returners, has drawn a promising young 
recruit named Ralio to her cause. If he agrees to reclaim 
one of the old towers near Tarrini and build a great beacon 
to guide the elves home, she has promised the young man 
great power when the elves return. The banshee’s claim that

--- PAGE 3 ---
3
2
3
4
1
6
7
8
N
h
Sharp Hooks and Enticing Stories
•	 Travelling through the region, the party hears rumors 
of a haunted tower near Tarrini. Arriving in town, 
they discover the place is rife with Returner cultists 
encouraging the locals to rebel. The Valeran army 
captain and mayor of the town hire the party (300 gp) 
to investigate the tower under suspicion of it being a 
Returner stronghold. 
•	 The characters are hired (3 x 100 gp gemstones) by a 
Valeran noble to investigate Returner activity in Tarrini. 
On the outskirts of town, the party is ambushed by cultists 
who wield magically electrified blades (+2 lightning 
damage). That night, lightning flashes in the sky though no 
storm can be seen—its origin is the elven tower.
THE RETURNERS
The Returners are a cult devoted to the return of the elves. 
See the Midgard Worldbook for details.
YENITHIA THE GILDED
As a banshee, Yenithia appears as a golden spectral elf 
whose face transitions from lifeless horror to beautiful elven 
woman. She carries a ghostly staff whose form changes with 
her face, alternating between shattered-looking glass and 
natural wood. Pretending to be a leader of the Returners cult, 
she is really devoted to the project of building her weapon, 
and she is obsessed with rekindling war in the region so that 
she can watch the people suffer.
5
4
6

--- PAGE 4 ---
4
RALIO, THE BEACON’S BUILDER
Ralio (cult fanatic) was a promising Returner recruit tasked 
with building the beacon according to Yenithia’s design. He 
has done his job well, but he has only just realized the true 
purpose of his work. He suffers now at the top of the tower, 
aware of what he has built but unwilling to set aside the 
fantasy of recalling the elves to the region.
The Beacon
The beacon is a large metal orb set upon four metal stands. 
Each stand is enchanted with lightning magic, and the orb 
acts as a focus. Any creature trained in its use (3 days of 
downtime) can use an action to cast lightning bolt (at 9th 
level) with a range of five miles. The beacon requires 30 
minutes to recharge. A trained creature may also use an 
action to have the beacon emit bright light in a columnar 
shape reaching a mile into the air. The light lasts for one 
hour, and the beacon must recharge before being used again.
On a successful DC 20 Wisdom (Perception) check, a 
small button is located on the side of one of the stands 
releases the energy from the beacon thus rendering it 
unusable for 30 minutes. 
The beacon (AC 18, 40 hp) is dangerous to those wishing to 
destroy it. Any creature attacking the beacon takes 14 (3d8) 
lightning damage and is stunned until the end its next turn.
Area Descriptions
Set in the hills along the border between Valera and Triolo, 
the ancient elven lookout tower seems to have undergone 
recent repairs and shows other signs of use. 
1. THE ENTRY STAIRS
The Returners have set a trap at the top of the stairs that 
lead to the entry landing. On a successful DC 20 Wisdom 
(Perception) check, a charged stone trap is spotted. It 
triggers if any creature of small or larger size passes over it. 
When triggered, the stone sends an electrical blast upward, 
and all creatures within 10 feet of the triggering creature 
must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw, taking 18 
(4d8) lightning damage on a failed save or half as much 
on a successful one. On a successful DC 15 Intelligence 
(Archana) check combined with a DC 15 Dexterity check 
(can be two different characters in the party), the trap is 
disarmed. Otherwise, the blast alerts the cultists in area 3 
and two of them rush into the guard spires on either side of 
the main entrance.
2. MAIN ENTRANCE
Only the inner doors are locked (DC 15 Dexterity with 
thieves’ tools to pick, DC 18 Strength to kick open). The 
exterior doors swing freely and are slightly unhinged. If the 
party sprang the trap in area 1, the two snipers (spies) from 
area 3 shoot at them as they enter the corridor. The arrow 
slits in the stone walls offer three quarters cover.
3. LIVING QUARTERS
A small cadre of Returner cultists have made their home 
on the main floor of the tower. The cultists consist of two 
snipers (spies) who flee partially up the stairs and fire at 
intruders and one veteran who guards the bottom of the 
stairs. The floor here is marked with arcane symbols. A DC 
14 Intelligence (Arcana) check suggests the symbols are 
related to evocation magic, specifically the generation of 
electrical fields. Water, rations, bedrolls, and other basic 
living supplies are scattered throughout this room.
4. STORES
These two connected chambers are used by the cult to 
store equipment. Several large metal devices used in the 
construction of the beacon sit discarded on the floor. They 
are blackened by scorch marks. A successful DC 16 Wisdom 
(Perception) reveals a wooden chest containing 175 gp and 
four common/uncommon potions that is hidden under 
debris deeper in the chamber. The chest is trapped with 
a poison needle. It requires a successful DC 16 Wisdom 
(Perception) to spot, and a successful DC 15 Dexterity with 
thieves’ tools to disarm. The needle pierces any creature that 
attempts to open the chest. The creature must make a DC 15 
Dexterity saving throw, or take 2 piercing and 9 (2d8) poison 
damage on a failed save.
5. BARRED LARDER
The door to this room is blocked by debris on the other 
side. The Returners have not gained access to this room. 
On a successful DC 18 Strength check, the door (AC 14, 30 
hp) can be forced open. Inside are the desiccated foodstuffs 
stored by the tower’s former inhabitants. If searched, a flask 
of expensive spirits (25 gp value) is found.
6. BUZZING LAIR
This entire floor is occupied by a colony of twelve azza 
gremlins (Tome of Beasts, p. 28) drawn to the tower by 
the beacon’s construction. Ralio has an arrangement with 
the gremlins, feeding them lightning in exchange for safe 
passage. The gremlins are neither evil nor are they guardians 
of the tower though they demand payment from the party to 
pass through their lair. For payment, they accept lightning 
or thunder-based spells cast upon them or items related to 
lighting or thunder.

--- PAGE 5 ---
5
7. RALIO’S QUARTERS
Ralio has established his living quarters on this floor. A 
large worktable contains a lit bullseye lantern and dozens of 
parchments detailing his construction of the beacon. Once 
collected, the parchments can be sold for up to 500 gp to 
the right type of buyer. Characters who spend a short rest 
reading the parchments discover the emergency shutdown 
mechanism as described in “The Beacon” section. They also 
discover that Ralio is concerned that his device is not just a 
beacon but also a weapon. 
8. ARCING TOP
At the top of the tower, Ralio stands 
beside his humming contraption. 
He looks at the party when they 
arrive at the top of the stairs; his face is 
conflicted. A character who succeeds 
on a DC 12 Wisdom (Insight) check 
can determine that Ralio suffers 
from psychological distress. 
He stands threateningly beside 
the ominously buzzing beacon, 
and he pleads with the party to leave 
before she arrives (referencing Yenithia). 
A character who succeeds on a DC 15 
Charisma (Persuasion) check convinces 
Ralio to step away from the beacon; 
additionally, he will not join Yenithia 
when she and two shadows teleport to the 
tower’s top. If the party fails to persuade 
Ralio, he joins his patron in combat but 
fights half‑heartedly, only casting cantrips. 
Yenithia cannot operate the beacon, and 
she is enraged by the party’s presence. 
Conclusion
Even defeated, the Returner cult’s beacon remains intact. 
Decommissioning and destroying this device is no simple 
matter and what the party does with Ralio’s parchments can 
have lasting effects. The Valeran military may take an interest 
in the weapon, which could create an imbalance of power in 
the region.

--- PAGE 6 ---
6
Azza Gremlin
These tiny, hairless, rail-thin creatures crackle with static 
electricity. Arcs of lightning snap between their long ears. 
Lightning Lovers. Azza gremlins live among storm 
clouds, lightning-based machinery, and other places with an 
abundance of lightning. 
Magnetic Flight. Although wingless, their light bodies 
are perfectly attuned to electromagnetic fields, giving them 
buoyancy and flight. They love playing in thunderstorms and 
riding lightning bolts between the clouds or between clouds 
and the ground. They feed off lightning and love to see its 
effects on other creatures. 
Work with Spellcasters. Although they aren’t 
much more than hazardous pests by themselves, more 
malicious creatures and spellcasters that use lightning as 
a weapon work with azza gremlins to amplify their own 
destructiveness. 
Azza gremlins stand 12 to 18 inches tall and weigh 
approximately 8 lb.
AZZA GREMLIN
Small fey, neutral
Armor Class 14
Hit Points 7 (2d6) 
Speed 10 ft., fly 40 ft. (hover)
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA 
5 (–3)	
18 (+4)	
10 (+0)	
12 (+1)	
13 (+1)	
10 (+0) 
Damage Immunities lightning, thunder
Senses darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 11 
Languages Common, Primordial
Challenge 1/4 (50 XP) 
Contagious Lightning. A creature that touches the azza 
gremlin or hits it with a melee attack using a metal 
weapon receives a discharge of lightning. The creature 
must succeed on a DC 10 Constitution saving throw 
or attract lightning for 1 minute. For the duration, 
attacks that cause lightning damage have advantage 
against this creature, the creature has disadvantage on 
saving throws against lightning damage and lightning 
effects, and if the creature takes lightning damage, it 
is paralyzed until the end of its next turn. An affected 
creature repeats the saving throw at the end of each of 
its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success.
Actions
Lightning Jolt. Melee or Ranged Spell Attack: +6 to 
hit, reach 5 ft. or range 30 ft., one creature. Hit: 3 
(1d6) lightning damage, and the target is affected by 
Contagious Lightning. 
Reactions
Ride the Bolt. The azza gremlin can travel instantly 
along any bolt of lightning. When it is within 5 feet of a 
lightning effect, the azza can teleport to any unoccupied 
space inside or within 5 feet of that lightning effect.

--- PAGE 7 ---
7
OPEN GAME LICENSE Version 1.0a 
The following text is the property of Wizards of the Coast, Inc. and 
is Copyright 2000 Wizards of the Coast, Inc (“Wizards”). All Rights 
Reserved. 
1. Definitions: (a)”Contributors” means the copyright and/or 
trademark owners who have contributed Open Game Content; 
(b)”Derivative Material” means copyrighted material including 
derivative works and translations (including into other computer 
languages), potation, modification, correction, addition, exten­
sion, upgrade, improvement, compilation, abridgment or other 
form in which an existing work may be recast, transformed or 
adapted; (c) “Distribute” means to reproduce, license, rent, lease, 
sell, broadcast, publicly display, transmit or otherwise distribute; 
(d)”Open Game Content” means the game mechanic and includes 
the methods, procedures, processes and routines to the extent 
such content does not embody the Product Identity and is an 
enhancement over the prior art and any additional content clearly 
identified as Open Game Content by the Contributor, and means 
any work covered by this License, including translations and deriv­
ative works under copyright law, but specifically excludes Product 
Identity. (e) “Product Identity” means product and product line 
names, logos and identifying marks including trade dress; artifacts; 
creatures characters; stories, storylines, plots, thematic elements, 
dialogue, incidents, language, artwork, symbols, designs, depic­
tions, likenesses, formats, poses, concepts, themes and graphic, 
photographic and other visual or audio representations; names 
and descriptions of characters, spells, enchantments, personalities, 
teams, personas, likenesses and special abilities; places, locations, 
environments, creatures, equipment, magical or supernatural abil­
ities or effects, logos, symbols, or graphic designs; and any other 
trademark or registered trademark clearly identified as Product 
identity by the owner of the Product Identity, and which specif­
ically excludes the Open Game Content; (f) “Trademark” means 
the logos, names, mark, sign, motto, designs that are used by a 
Contributor to identify itself or its products or the associated prod­
ucts contributed to the Open Game License by the Contributor 
(g) “Use”, “Used” or “Using” means to use, Distribute, copy, edit, 
format, modify, translate and otherwise create Derivative Material 
of Open Game Content. (h) “You” or “Your” means the licensee in 
terms of this agreement.
2. The License: This License applies to any Open Game Content 
that contains a notice indicating that the Open Game Content 
may only be Used under and in terms of this License. You must 
affix such a notice to any Open Game Content that you Use. No 
terms may be added to or subtracted from this License except 
as described by the License itself. No other terms or conditions 
may be applied to any Open Game Content distributed using this 
License. 
3. Offer and Acceptance: By Using the Open Game Content 
You indicate Your acceptance of the terms of 
this License. 
4. Grant and Consideration: In consideration for agreeing to 
use this License, the Contributors grant You a perpetual, world­
wide, royalty-free, nonexclusive license with the exact terms of this 
License to Use, the Open Game Content. 
5. Representation of Authority to Contribute: If You are 
contributing original material as Open Game Content, You repre­
sent that Your Contributions are Your original creation and/or You 
have sufficient rights to grant the rights conveyed by this License. 
6. Notice of License Copyright: You must update the COPY­
RIGHT NOTICE portion of this License to include the exact text 
of the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any Open Game Content You are 
copying, modifying or distributing, and You must add the title, the 
copyright date, and the copyright holder’s name to the COPY­
RIGHT NOTICE of any original Open Game Content you Distribute. 
7. Use of Product Identity: You agree not to Use any Product 
Identity, including as an indication as to compatibility, except as 
expressly licensed in another, independent Agreement with the 
owner of each element of that Product Identity. You agree not to 
indicate compatibility or co-adaptability with any Trademark or 
Registered Trademark in conjunction with a work containing Open 
Game Content except as expressly licensed in another, indepen­
dent Agreement with the owner of such Trademark or Regis­
tered Trademark. The use of any Product Identity in Open Game 
Content does not constitute a challenge to the ownership of that 
Product Identity. The owner of any Product Identity used in Open 
Game Content shall retain all rights, title and interest in and to that 
Product Identity.
8. Identification: If you distribute Open Game Content You 
must clearly indicate which portions of the work that you are 
distributing are Open Game Content. 
9. Updating the License: Wizards or its designated Agents 
may publish updated versions of this License. You may use any 
authorized version of this License to copy, modify and distribute 
any Open Game Content originally distributed under any version 
of this License. 
10. Copy of this License: You MUST include a copy of this Li­
cense with every copy of the Open Game Content You Distribute. 
11. Use of Contributor Credits: You may not market or adver­
tise the Open Game Content using the name of any Contributor 
unless You have written permission from the Contributor to do so. 
12. Inability to Comply: If it is impossible for You to comply 
with any of the terms of this License with respect to some or all of 
the Open Game Content due to statute, judicial order, or govern­
mental regulation then You may not Use any Open Game Material 
so affected. 
13. Termination: This License will terminate automatically if You 
fail to comply with all terms herein and fail to cure such breach 
within 30 days of becoming aware of the breach. All sublicenses 
shall survive the termination of this License. 
14. Reformation: If any provision of this License is held to be 
unenforceable, such provision shall be reformed only to the extent 
necessary to make it enforceable. 
15. COPYRIGHT NOTICE 
Open Game License v 1.0a Copyright 2000, Wizards of the 
Coast, Inc. 
System Reference Document 5.0 Copyright 2016, Wizards 
of the Coast, Inc.; Authors Mike Mearls, Jeremy Crawford, Chris 
Perkins, Rodney Thompson, Peter Lee, James Wyatt, Robert J. 
Schwalb, Bruce R. Cordell, Chris Sims, and Steve Townshend, 
based on original material by E. Gary Gygax and Dave Arneson.
Tome of Beasts. Copyright 2016, Open Design; Authors Chris 
Harris, Dan Dillon, Rodrigo Garcia Carmona, and Wolfgang Baur.
The Returners’ Tower. Author: Jon Sawatsky. © 2018 Open 
Design LLC.