--- PAGE 1 ---
22
Druids

--- PAGE 3 ---
CREDITS
Design: Wolfgang Baur, Jerry LeNeave, Ashley Warren, Mike Welham
Development & Editing: Scott Gable
Art Director & Graphic Design: Marc Radle
Cover Art: Karl Waller
Back Cover Art: Kiss Márton Gyula
Interior Art: Dean Spencer, Phil Stone, Karl Waller
Publisher: Wolfgang Baur
Kobold Press, Midgard, Open Design, and their associated logos are trademarks of Open Design.
Product Identity: The following items are hereby identified as Product Identity, as defined in the Open Game License 
version 1.0a, Section 1(e), and are not Open Content: All trademarks, registered trademarks, proper names (characters, 
place names, new deities, etc.), dialogue, plots, story elements, locations, characters, artwork, sidebars, and trade dress. 
(Elements that have previously been designated as Open Game Content are not included in this declaration.)
Open Game Content:  The Open Content in this book includes the magic items  Hallowed Effigy, Mantle of the Forest 
Lord, Primordial Pods, and Wendigo Tallow Candle as well as the spells Charming Aesthetics, Rise of the Green, 
Toxic Pollen, and Zymurgic Aura. 
No other portion of this work may be reproduced in any form without permission. 
© 2020 Open Design LLC
www.koboldpress.com
TABLE OF CONTENTS
“White Forest: The Untamed Wood” by Ashley Warren with Wolfgang Baur  .......................2
“Circle of Fermentation: Life in the Winewood” by Ashley Warren ..........................................8
“Circle of the Weald: Blood on the Leaves” by Jerry LeNeave ...................................................12
“Baubles of the Darkened Druids ” by Jerry LeNeave ................................................................17
“Elven Druids of Midgard” by Mike Welham .............................................................................23
TM

--- PAGE 4 ---
2
Within the Trees
Though the White Forest is deeply wild 
and the vast majority of the forest remains 
primal and overgrown, it does enfold 
numerous ruins, small settlements, and 
native humanoids of various kinds, 
including gnomes, alseids, humans, and 
occasionally river elves, cousins to those in 
the Arbonesse. Those who choose to make 
their home in the White Forest often live 
in harmony with it and have sought it out 
precisely for its wildness, though some, like 
Gellert the Gruesome and the Magdar city 
folk in Cronepisht, prefer to harness, hunt, 
and study it. 
In botanical terms, both gnome and 
human artisans make use of this abundant 
bounty. Bushy, round hazelnut and walnut 
trees surround towering, ancient pines 
with trunks large enough for one to live 
inside. Birch trees grow along clearings and 
borders of the forest. And the occasional 
twisted-trunked willow marks a clearing, 
which may be occupied by the remnants of 
fey settlements. 
The White Forest is well known for its 
singular and usually silent grove of treants 
at the eastern edge of the foothills. These 
tree shepherds keep the forest’s deepest 
reaches unsullied by roads, axes, and 
T
his enormous forest of pine and elm 
separates the Magdar Kingdom from 
the White Mountain Marches and was once 
part of the same elven lands as the Gennecka 
Forest to the east. As with other ancient 
forests of its size, the White Forest remains 
a relatively untamed place filled with beasts 
and the ruins of elven settlements, both of 
which occasionally attract explorers and 
willing adventurers. For the most part, the 
area is ignored or bypassed by travelers 
seeking an easier journey. 
The White Road ley line bisects the 
western portion of the White Forest, 
dipping south over the mountains toward 
Zlato Mine and snaking upward toward the 
east, connecting the magical wellsprings 
of the Magdar Kingdom to the Dragon 
Empire. The Magdar Kingdom’s city of 
Cronepisht is the only settlement of any size 
with an interest and the resources to exploit 
the forest. Melana and Triolo, nearby 
polities of the Seven Cities, are focused 
elsewhere, and the Mharoti have their hands 
full subduing the White Mountain Marches 
to the south. So the White Forest remains 
largely wild, deeply magical, and privy to 
secrets it rarely shares.
WHITE FOREST: 
THE UNTAMED WOOD 
by Ashley Warren with Wolfgang Baur

--- PAGE 5 ---
3
settlements, but they are far too old 
and sleepy to care about humans 
and dwarves at the forest’s eastern 
and western extremities. Their 
leader is Gatherer-of-Moss, a 
fine treant of many centuries age 
whose limbs have a tendency to 
crack and pop when she moves. Some 
believe she also guides a community 
of pineys, plant-like creatures 
also seen in the Margreve.
The climate leans toward 
cooler temperatures, especially 
along the Griffoncrag 
foothills. During the winter, 
a thin blanket of snow coats the 
ground, but the soil remains fertile 
year-round. The rivers keep the 
soil saturated, and verdant moss 
covers much of the ground. Ley 
lines flow strong and sure, 
and magical springs, glades, 
and stone circles can be 
found in Erdovar and near 
Redtower and Margado.  
Many druids seek out the 
White Forest precisely for its 
potent magic. Alchemical supplies are 
aplenty for use in a wide array of tinctures, 
tonics, and poisons. There is much to eat 
although knowledge of foraging is helpful 
as similar varieties of plants can have very 
different results on a person. 
A few pocket communities of servitor 
gnomes inhabit the White Forest, families 
making their homes in the rotted trunks of 
dead trees, restoring the cavernous wooden 
bases into cozy and comfortable abodes. 
When nestled inside their houses with their 
moss-covered doors pulled shut, it’s easy for 
explorers to overlook these families entirely, 
and that is how many gnomes prefer it. 
Though the presence of a laundry line or a 
small woodcutter’s axe may betray a gnome 
hamlet. They see themselves as caretakers 
for the departed elves, and some touch of 
magic from the Court of Winter Love in 
the Summerlands is said to protect their 
settlements from outside observation. These 
gnomes are not sworn to the Eleven Hells as 
those of Niemheim are, though they rarely 
leave the boundaries of the forest either. 
Some who’ve had reason to speak with a 
gnome chieftain or reeve claim that the 
majority of their trade is still with the elves 
through portals to the Summerlands. 
Center of Turbulence
The forest’s location and the presence of 
the White Road ley line has attracted many 
arcane practitioners over the years.  
Those wizards and druids who protect 
it as a neutral, wild zone are often at odds

--- PAGE 6 ---
4
with others from Triolo or Cronepisht who 
leverage its strategic location as a beacon of 
importance. The druids are usually gnomes 
or humans in the western or northern 
sections of the forest; the more practical, 
timber-and-power-harvesting practitioners 
are wands from Cronepisht, wind mages 
from Triolo, or ring mages from Melana, 
seeking owlbear hearts and enchanted 
bezoars for their mercenary endeavors. 
Notable Locations 
in the White Forest
Much of the forest is home to small villages 
and communities although some of the 
region’s most notable locations are also 
found here. Most keep to themselves, but 
there is occasional conflict among those 
who attempt to infringe on other’s land. 
CRONEPISHT
On the outskirts of the White Forest, where 
the tree line ebbs to verdant plains, is the 
great city of Cronepisht. Nestled within a 
bend of the River Cirkno (and primarily 
on the far bank away from the forest), 
this capital city is known as the 
“Jewel of Magdar.” Home to more 
than 30,000 citizens, Cronepisht 
has spilled over into the White 
Forest since the construction of the 
Queen Malaya’s Bridge—and the 
resulting conflict with eastern forest 
druids and gnomes is occasionally 
violent. Many citizens have formed 
small hamlets among the trees near 
the city. Wealthier Cronepisht 
residents choose instead to live on 
the hills on the far side the River 
Cirkno, less rustic and more secure 
from forest wolves, hungering bears, double 
eagles, or bands of goblins. 
According to local legend, the forest 
west of Cronepisht was once home to a 
community of “wild women”—or perhaps 
hags or alseids or elfmarked druids. Tales 
alluded to these strange women who lurked 
among the thickets, and their homes were 
said to be under ancient walnut trees or 
in caverns near an ancient stone circle. 
Although hags and alseids do live in the 
White Forest, most keep to themselves and 
are only hostile to those who provoke them 
(which the occasional adventuring party is 
inclined to do). The tales do attract explorers 
and elderly women from neighboring areas 
who seek to find this settlement of wise 
women and join it. Some do vanish into the 
forest and never return. 
Another notable event at Cronepisht 
is the Queensmeet, which is an annual 
tournament that takes place in Low 
Summer. The primary spectacle of the

--- PAGE 7 ---
5
Queensmeet is the grand melee, though 
many visitors use the event as a chance 
to mingle, socialize, and make deals. The 
gnomes of Middlebrook and the alseid often 
come to the Queensmeet as “representatives 
from the Summerlands,” claiming the 
right to compete in contests of archery and 
magic and selling both herbs and skilled 
woodcarving. At the end of the fair, gnomes 
and alseid alike wander back to the west and 
enter the forest for another year.
MARGADO
Known as the Town of Ink, Margado makes 
good use of the White Forest’s resources, 
including its walnut timber and iron. But 
it’s the ink they’re most proud of: produced 
at the Thoth-Hermes monastery, it is 
revered for its smooth, satiny texture and 
for drying quickly without fouling quills. 
This ink is sold throughout the Seven Cities 
and sometimes as far away as the Mharoti 
lands or Bemmea. Still, Margado’s main 
export is oak, walnut, and ash timber for 
Magdar barrels and spears. 
Most of its inhabitants are the monks 
who live at the monastery. An old stone 
structure with grand stained-glass windows, 
the monastery remains in good condition, 
and devout volunteers make occasional 
pilgrimages to it both to engage in faithful 
practices and to help in occasional repairs, 
expansion, and upkeep. The ink cellar alone 
is worth visiting. Black ink is the most 
popular, and the monks make it entirely 
from components from within the White 
Forest: walnuts and gall and iron of course 
but also petrified wood shavings ground to a 
powder, and a unique blend of oils is added 
to give the ink its unique qualities. The 
cellar is stocked with an array of colorful 
bowls of powdered dyes. Any ink color can 
be made, and although the monks offer 
their skills freely to the illiterate, their inks 
are put toward making new books glorifying 
Thoth-Hermes, lord of words and magic.
As a monastery of Thoth-Hermes is always 
associated with both trade and scribes, the 
building’s sizable library houses numerous 
titles on religions and politics of the Seven 
Cities, on inkmaking and alchemy, and 
on dragons and creatures of the forest and 
plains as well as sacred texts and the life 
books of prior abbots and monks of Thoth-
Hermes. These old tomes remain shackled 
to shelves and cannot be removed although 
visitors can freely peruse the stacks. 
MIDDLEBROOK GNOMES
The “largest” gnome village in the White 
Forest is a settlement of perhaps 100 or 200 
souls in a place called Middlebrook, located 
along the banks of the Templine River, in 
alignment with the White Road ley line 
and connected to the west by a game path 
called the Old Elf Road by humans in Triolo. 
Certainly, gnomes are rare in Midgard—and 
those not connected to Niemheim even 
rarer—so it is frequently assumed that 
Middlebrook gnomes are in fact somehow 
related, but Middlebrookers take great 
offense at such suggestions. 
Even stranger is the relationship between 
these gnomes and the river elves who live 
nearby. Historically, gnomes were one of 
the primary servitors of the elves, and the 
elves’ departure left many gnomes without 
a purpose or a cause to serve. Along the 
Templine River however, these gnomes hold 
on to the old ways, and they share a mutual 
enemy with the river elves: Gellert the 
Gruesome, sorcerer of the Scarlet Citadel.
Middlebrook gnomes make their homes 
in tree trunks, they keep to themselves, 
and they wish others would do the same. 
Their leader, one High Reeve Shendoltz 
Berryman, follows a course of isolation 
and patience, trading only with elfmarked 
or gnomish visitors and driving humans 
and dwarves away with entangling spells, 
clouds of spores, endless traps, thefts, and 
ambushes. As a result, sightings of gnomes

--- PAGE 8 ---
6
are surpassingly uncommon. One may 
glimpse a Middlebrook gnome while on 
a mushroom‑foraging excursion, but it is 
highly unlikely. 
When spotted in one of their enclaves, 
the gnomes seem far more sedate and 
harmless than their reputation. They still 
grow the traditional elven strawberries (the 
size of a human fist), they carve wooden 
scrollwork in doorways and pillars and 
totems, and they protect the local wildlife 
from wandering into Gellert’s clutches. In 
particular, they keep a few forest drakes 
and lantern dragonettes as pets, scouts, and 
guardians—apparently these were beloved 
by the elves, and they remain loyal to the 
gnomes. Although this doesn’t always work, 
Middlebrook is well-fortified, preventing 
the White Forest’s gnomes from ending 
up at the Scarlet Citadel as involuntary 
apprentices. 
SCARLET CITADEL 
& THE RUINS OF ERDOVAR
In the northwest of the forest sits the Scarlet 
Citadel and the ruins of Erdovar. The area 
is lorded over by Gellert the Gruesome, 
the Keeper of the White Forest as far as the 
feudal Magdar is concerned. Gellert is the 
sorcerer who resides in the Scarlet Citadel, 
a towering stone fortress perched on a small 
hill (see Warlock 20: Redtower). 
Rumors abound of Gellert’s contributions 
to the fall of Erdovar. Located on the 
Templine River, it was once a bustling town 
due to its timber trade as well as its role 
as an elven center of the worship of Yarila 
and Porevit. Timber, walnuts, and venison 
were sold and sent north to the Magdar 
Kingdom and west to elven Valera. Fine 
houses and wooden temples in Peltzenheim 
and Neusonnenstein are built from timber 
sourced from Erdovar, and nut-based dishes 
and delicacies are still prominent in much of 
the cuisine found in these cities. However, 
Erdovar is now a ghost town compared to 
its heyday with little left to show of its twin 
temples, its wineries, or its famed spinners 
and tapestry weavers. 
The town was torched many years ago, and 
a great cave dragon all but demolished the 
area. Some claimed that Gellert had kept 
the dragon captive beneath the town; others 
blamed the Mharoti or the darakhul for 
bringing the beast, named Bulukanna and 
sometimes referred to as “grandmother” 
to avoid speaking its name. Regardless of 
who brought it, the attack was followed 
by a wave of undead soldiers chasing the 
survivors, and the resulting chaos led to a 
fire that brought Erdovar to its knees. The 
town was quickly abandoned by humans, 
gnomes, and elfmarked, and the dragon 
Bulukanna lived there for many decades. 
Some believe she remains there still, though 
like many cave dragons she hunts by night 
or underground and is rarely seen.
Presently, the occasional bandit party 
ventures through Erdovar, but those who 
linger often meet ghosts or more sinister 
undead. Some believe a particularly 
dark cult has taken the ruins for its own. 
Certainly, shadow goblins, wights, and 
evil priests have been seen there, perhaps 
seeking some profane object or some elven 
relic for their own ends.
TEMPLINE RIVER 
& THE WESTERN EDGE
This labyrinthine river weaves like a snake 
in the northwestern section of the White 
Forest down toward the Triolo coast. At 
one time, it was said to be part of the seat 
of a river elf lord near the village of Redleaf 
(now Redtower), and the last of these lords, 
Yngerassos the Elder, is said to be buried 
beneath the Templine in a riverine tomb as 
was the custom of many river elves. Finding 
any such tomb is another matter; this 
portion of the White Forest is particularly 
lush as the banks often break, leading 
toward marshy conditions.

--- PAGE 9 ---
7
This ever-present moisture inspires the 
growth of fungus, and during the spring, the 
river is surrounded by a vibrant spectrum 
of colorful mushrooms not unlike a field of 
pastel wildflowers. These unique mushrooms 
attract alchemists and naturalists from 
all over: the frilled bonnet mushroom is a 
delicacy among the elves and their followers, 
and the meaty stonepilz is beloved among 
the gnomes. Both fetch stunning prices in 
Middlebrook, Triolo, and Valera.
Those who understand these mushrooms 
best are the local gnomes and river elves, 
though both seem quite eager to keep 
the harvest for themselves. A few of the 
more outgoing elves here choose to serve 
as guides and lead mushroom foraging 
excursions for interesting visitors, especially 
for elfmarked or humans with a connection 
to the wilderness. 
Some timber from Redtower does float 
down the water to Triolo and the coast, but 
most of the time, it is easier to get oxen to 
pull a wagon than to guide logs down the 
sluggish sections of the Templine. It is a 
popular area for hunters, rich in waterfowl 
along the western forest edge, and full of 
ponds and fish within the forest proper.
d6 ENCOUNTER
1
A river elf named Bella invites the party on a mushroom foraging excursion near the Templine 
River. The characters can spend downtime to collect edible mushrooms to add to their rations. 
After this excursion, characters are able to identify safe-to-eat mushrooms with a successful DC 
11 Intelligence (Nature) check. Failing this check means that picked mushrooms have a 20% 
chance of being poisonous.
2
An injured goblin named Greggo has escaped from Gellert the Gruesome’s clutches at the Scarlet 
Citadel. The goblin may be hostile at first, but if the party makes no further attempt to harm him, he 
warns them of the “evil mage who lives in the citadel.”
3
A group of 1d4 bandits attempts to rob the party.
4
A band of Mharoti spies lies in wait. Bound for Valtros with the intent to infiltrate the castle, the 
dragonborn approach the characters and ask for their help to “deliver a package.” (The package 
contains a magic stone that acts as a mobile scrying sensor to spy on the goings-on within the castle.) 
5
A group of intoxicated revelers makes their way to the Queensmeet and invites the party to join them.
6
An old pilgrim heading to the Thoth-Hermes monastery asks the characters for help safely reaching 
the monastery. In exchange for this help, the pilgrim gives the party a healer’s kit and teaches one 
character how to use it.
WHITE ROAD
It’s impossible to talk about the White Forest 
without talking about the White Road, which 
shares its namesake and draws many seeking 
to harness its power. Despite being off the 
beaten track and farther away from the more 
heavily peopled areas, this ley line’s usage 
rises in direct proportion to the ongoing 
tensions between human and dragonkin, and 
its presence was crucial to the Mharoti in 
the invasion of Illyria. Adventuring parties 
might quickly find themselves roped into 
some political scheme or other—whether or 
not they want to be involved.
Random Encounters 
in the White Forest
The White Forest provides no shortage of 
activities for adventuring parties. Adventures 
may put the characters in the middle of 
an arcane scheme, an encounter with a 
ferocious beast, or a pleasant stroll through 
the trade fair or a day at the Queensmeet. 
Roll on the table below to determine what 
characters may encounter while traveling 
through or near the White Forest.

--- PAGE 10 ---
8
A 
strange and pleasant, if not slightly 
funky, scent emanates from the 
Winewood. Neither one of the larger nor 
smaller forests in Midgard, the Winewood 
is renowned largely for its main export, 
which is more its main influence upon the 
world: fermentation. The Winewood has an 
abundance of wild yeast that permeates the 
air, turning berries sour even after they’ve 
ripened. Travelers may accidentally kick 
over a jar filled with unidentifiable sludge—
containers of flour and water, capturing 
these natural yeasts to use in other efforts 
like bread and beer. Brewers around 
Midgard send barrels of their finest brews 
to the forest to age and to infuse with that 
unique, intangible atmosphere.
Those who live in the Winewood are 
affected by this atmosphere in mostly 
positive ways. A circle of druids, known as 
the Fermenters, make use of the “strange 
air” of the forest to brew and ferment, well, 
nearly anything really, from varieties of beer 
and wine to funky, sometimes foul teas, 
from aged meats and cheeses to pickled 
produce. But beyond just brewing, these 
druids leverage fermentation as a magical 
effect, harnessing the passage of time on 
organic materials to reap its benefits while 
wielding its dangers, like rot, to inflict harm 
upon their enemies. The circle is guided by 
an elder known only as Mother, who is the 
chief fermenter and master of the circle’s 
starter, an ever-fermenting vat of yeast and 
bacteria. Every member of the circle receives 
a vial of the starter, which infuses the druid 
with the magical effects of fermentation. 
As a member of this circle, your magic 
is influenced by the processes in nature 
that cause organic material to change. 
You as well may be at the whim of these 
unpredictable patterns. 
BONUS PROFICIENCY
When you choose this circle at 2nd level, 
you gain proficiency with artisan’s tools 
(brewer’s supplies). If you already have 
this proficiency, you gain proficiency with 
artisan’s tools (alchemist’s supplies). 
EFFERVESCENCE 
Inspired by the bubbling, fizzy side effect of 
many fermentative processes, you lift and 
strengthen your comrades’ spirits. Starting 
at 2nd level, you can use a bonus action to 
expend one spell slot and touch one creature 
other than yourself to bestow a pleasant, 
giddy sensation that improves their stamina 
and focus. The creature can roll a 1d4 and 
apply the result to an ability check or saving 
CIRCLE OF FERMENTATION: 
LIFE IN THE WINEWOOD  
by Ashley Warren

--- PAGE 11 ---
9
throw. This Effervescence die lasts for 1 
minute or until used, and a creature can 
have only one such die at a time. You gain 
an additional die to give away per level of 
the spell slot expended. 
MOTHER’S GIFT
Starting at 2nd level, you can use a vial 
given to you by Mother. The vial is filled 
with a sample of the circle’s starter, a slimy, 
sour‑smelling, yeasty mixture. Consuming 
this starter gives you an additional slot 
for 1 day. Upon consumption, roll 1d4 to 
determine how many days the vial takes to 
refill. The result of this roll also determines 
the level of the spell slot obtained on 
consuming the next dose; the result must be 
of a level you can cast, so if you roll higher, 
use the highest level you can cast from 
1st–4th level. Only you can gain this benefit 
in consuming this mixture.
CIRCLE SPELLS
Your connection to wild fermentation in 
nature grants you access to certain spells. 
At 3rd, 5th, 7th, and 9th level, you gain 
access to circle spells related to alchemy and 
fermentation. Choose from the list below. 
Upon selecting a new circle spell, you 
always have it prepared and this spell doesn’t 
count against your daily prepared spells. 
CIRCLE OF FERMENTATION
Druid 
Level
Circle Spells
3rd
gust of wind, protection from poison 
5th
plant growth, speak with plants
7th
blight, control water
9th
contagion, mass cure wounds
BRINY MURK
When you reach 6th level, you can use 
your reaction to saturate the ground 
around you with a potent brew, creating a 
noxious, marshy area of difficult terrain in 
a 20-foot‑radius sphere centered on you. 
Creatures not in contact with the ground 
are unaffected. You can dismiss the effect 
as an action.
Additionally, you can use a bonus action to 
expend one spell slot to further charge your 
briny murk for 1 minute per level of the 
spell slot expended. When so charged, each 
creature that is within the area at the start 
of its turn must succeed on a Constitution 
saving throw, or their movement is reduced 
to 0. Creatures that don’t need to breathe or 
are immune to poison automatically succeed 
on this saving throw. 
All members of your circle are immune to 
these effects.
FERMENTATIVE ENGINE
Starting at 10th level, you are immune to 
necrotic energy, and you can’t be frightened.
TOUCH OF ZYMURGY
By 14th level, you have learned to better 
direct the “strange air” both within you and 
without. You can use your action to end 
one condition on yourself or on another 
creature that you touch.
You can use this feature a number of 
times equal to your Wisdom modifier (a 
minimum of once). You regain expended 
uses when you finish a long rest.

--- PAGE 12 ---
10
New Spell
The following spell was developed by druids 
inspired by fermentative processes.
ZYMURGIC AURA 
7th-level necromancy (druid)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V, M
Duration: Instantaneous
A wave of putrefaction surges from you, 
targeting creatures of your choice within 
a 30-foot radius around you, speeding the 
rate of decay in those it touches. The target 
must make a Constitution saving throw. It 
takes 10d6 necrotic damage on a failed save 
or half as much on a successful save. Its hit 
point maximum is reduced by an amount 
equal to the damage taken. This reduction 
lasts until the creature takes a long rest.
Druid Background: Zymurgist
You are a naturalist who has studied the 
fermentation process and its effects on 
organic materials. Yours is a community 
of druids, alchemists, witches, and various 
artisans and crafters—though many others 
regularly seek out your expertise. You 
appreciate that change is a part of life 
everywhere in the multiverse. Rather than 
resent that, you see the beauty and potential 
to apply these processes to your life, and to 
your magic. 
Skill Proficiency: Nature, Medicine
Tool Proficiency: One type of artisan’s tools 
(alchemist’s supplies or brewer’s supplies)
Equipment: A set of artisan’s tools (either 
alchemist’s supplies or brewer’s supplies), 
an apron, glass vials and jars filled 
with bubbling substances, and a pouch 
containing 10 gp 
FAVORED FERMENTS
All who follow the call of fermentation have 
a certain specialty, some favorite variety of 
fermented substance they tend to focus on. 
Select a specialty from the Favored Ferment 
table or roll randomly. 
d10 FAVORED FERMENT
1
wine
2
beer
3
mead/cider
4
cultured dairy (yogurt, cheese, kefir)
5
kombucha
6
pickled vegetables
7
vinegar and brine
8
beans/bean paste
9
fish
10
bread (sourdough and natural yeast breads)
FEATURE: LOCAL SOURCING
You have a knack for sourcing food 
anywhere you go, even if the nature of that 
food might be distasteful to your fellow 
party members. You can make something 
palatable out of almost nothing and can 
preserve whatever you make for weeks and 
even months. This makes you a resourceful 
traveling companion, especially for longer 
journeys where finding sustenance may 
prove difficult.
SUGGESTED CHARACTERISTICS
There is no one type of zymurgist although 
you all share a passion for living sustainably 
on the natural world. You are curious 
folk. Those who are outgoing may become 
evangelists for the benefits of fermentation, 
urging their party members to seek out 
fermented substances to aid in skill 
development and even healing. Those more 
introspective love to get lost in their brewing. 
Your personality may be similar to that of a 
studious wizard or to an eager alchemist.

--- PAGE 13 ---
11
d6 PERSONALITY 
1
I love being out in nature and learning as much as I can about new biomes.
2
Nothing grosses me out, and I’m not afraid of germs. 
3
I’m enthusiastic about strange things in nature and often go off the beaten path, literally, to 
investigate something.
4
I’m resourceful and sometimes this makes me snobby toward city folk who can’t rough it outdoors.
5
I’m known for being a bit kooky and eccentric, even among others in the community. 
6
I’m a collector and often have lots of interesting things on my person. Usually in jars.
7
I’m always looking for the next cool thing to try, to ferment that thing no one else ever has.
8
I prefer to perfect one thing, to make it the best, and then to carefully tweak the recipe to see 
what happens.
d6 IDEAL
1
I love being out in nature and learning as much as I can about new biomes.
2
Nothing grosses me out, and I’m not afraid of germs. 
3
I’m enthusiastic about strange things in nature and often go off the beaten path, literally, to 
investigate something.
4
I’m resourceful and sometimes this makes me snobby toward city folk who can’t rough it outdoors.
5
I’m known for being a bit kooky and eccentric, even among others in the community. 
6
I’m a collector and often have lots of interesting things on my person. Usually in jars.
d6 BOND
1
I love being out in nature and learning as much as I can about new biomes.
2
Nothing grosses me out, and I’m not afraid of germs. 
3
I’m enthusiastic about strange things in nature and often go off the beaten path, literally, to 
investigate something.
4
I’m resourceful and sometimes this makes me snobby toward city folk who can’t rough it outdoors.
5
I’m known for being a bit kooky and eccentric, even among others in the community. 
6
I’m a collector and often have lots of interesting things on my person. Usually in jars.
d6 FLAW
1
I love being out in nature and learning as much as I can about new biomes.
2
Nothing grosses me out, and I’m not afraid of germs. 
3
I’m enthusiastic about strange things in nature and often go off the beaten path, literally, to 
investigate something.
4
I’m resourceful and sometimes this makes me snobby toward city folk who can’t rough it outdoors.
5
I’m known for being a bit kooky and eccentric, even among others in the community. 
6
I’m a collector and often have lots of interesting things on my person. Usually in jars.

--- PAGE 14 ---
12
D
ruids of the Circle of the Weald dwell 
in the areas where the trees grow 
so thick that the forest’s undergrowth is 
starved for life, the sunlight nearly choked 
out by the gnarled canopy above. Within 
these copses, you’ll find an order of 
druids who consider themselves warriors, 
soothsayers, prophets, and catalysts for 
keeping the fate of the natural world in 
balance. They consider their faithful to be 
the most devoted among those who would 
worship the very lands themselves. They 
adorn themselves with raiment of blood 
and bone, embracing death as a path to 
enlightenment, and they consider it the 
ultimate way to enter into true symbiosis 
with nature. They erect macabre effigies 
of sacrificial animals around their groves, 
further ostracizing them from society as 
well as other druidic circles. 
Typically hailing from regions such as the 
outskirts of Björnrike or the northernmost 
uncharted forests of Midgard, druids of the 
weald are typically motivated to venture out 
of their communities in search of adventure 
out of what they see as necessity. Though 
their groves are most commonly known 
in these northern regions, they can also be 
found in the depths of the Southlands amid 
oases of palm trees and dressed in the hides 
of hyenas and goats. Of all the variations 
of their order, two things remain central to 
them regardless of region: a penchant for 
sacrifice and a belief in a relatively unknown 
and elusive god.
Animal Worship & Sacrifice
Circle of the Weald druids covet and cherish 
their animal friends and companions, 
though in a different way than most. They 
believe that beasts sometimes best serve 
their order when used as a food source or as 
vessels for becoming closer to nature. They 
often sacrifice animals for this purpose and 
believe that consuming them gives them 
some of that creature’s stamina, strength, 
and speed—that creature’s very essence. 
When complete, these carcasses are used as 
ceremonial displays in their camps and on 
the borders of their lands, also doubling as a 
grisly warning to those who might encroach. 
Another common practice among their 
kind is that of preserving aging animal 
spirits within trinkets they create called 
wraithstones. Typically when an animal 
is reaching the age when it would die 
CIRCLE OF THE WEALD: 
BLOOD ON THE LEAVES 
by Jerry LeNeave

--- PAGE 15 ---
13
naturally, the beast is euthanized in a special 
ritual consisting of sacred ashes, powders, 
and salves in order to preserve the creature’s 
essence within one of these stones. 
Wraithstones are carved from the petrified 
roots of their most ancient trees into the 
shape and likeness of the creature being 
immortalized within. This process, while 
usually done in order to preserve faithful 
companions and longtime family members, 
can also be used to trap tainted or corrupted 
animal spirits in order to stop them from 
causing harm or else to harness their volatile 
spirit for future use in rituals.
Aside from sustenance and ceremony, 
animal parts are also harvested to create 
unique items only found within the circle 
and sometimes with those who trade with 
them or adjacent hubs of commerce. Many 
a specialized candle, powder, and pigment 
have been created throughout the ages of the 
circle’s existence, and they are always finding 
new ways to leverage blood, bark, and bone 
to mix with natural elements in order to 
create brand new creations and concoctions. 
No part of an animal ever goes to waste 
within a Circle of the Weald community.
Circle Initiation & Beliefs
Unlike others, those of the Circle of the 
Weald typically worship only one god, 
the one they call the Ancestor, who serves 
as the embodiment of all of nature itself. 
The Ancestor appears genderless as a tall 
humanoid with the head of an obsidian-
eyed stag. They wear long earth-toned robes 
and bear a round shield made of taught hide 
stretched over a section of oak trunk and 
smeared with bloody sigils. In their other 
hand, they wield a long wooden club carved 
into the shape of a femur and inset with 
angular glowing amber sigils.
In the Ancestor’s wake, a trail of sinew and 
dark‑red blood is left behind as it ambulates 
with the grace of a deer and the speed of a 
charging boar. It is said that what is hidden 
beneath the robes of the ancestor is neither 
form of beast nor person but instead a 
glistening mass of floating viscera, pulsating 
rhythmically and dripping with blood.
In order to complete the initiation process 
and become a full member of the circle, 
those who aspire to join must undergo what 
is referred to as the Catharsis, wherein they 
must crawl within the carcass of a beast they 
themselves have sacrificed to the Ancestor. 
A circle elder will sew the carcass shut, 
leaving a space for the initiate to breathe 
from within, and there they must remain for 
a full 48 hours. During this time, it is said 
that initiates first undergo an intense dream 
state where they are the closest to the spirit 
of the Ancestor, granting them portents not 
only of their own life paths but of the future 
of the world itself. 
These brief glimpses into the future 
can provide the initiate with a lifetime of 
contemplation—and sometimes trauma. 
Those who follow the circle claim that the 
Ancestor only ever answers inquiries with 
responses so vague that they only beget 
more questions. The second stage of the 
Catharsis is often said to be extremely 
peaceful, a form of astral projection where 
the initiate wanders beyond time and space 
in what is often described as an emerald 
dreamland, or hellscape, depending on 
one’s perspective.
Ongoing Practices
After joining the circle, its members still 
sometimes utilize the Catharsis, hoping for 
portents to guide their hand, especially when 
situations are dire. Unfortunately, after 
the initiation, the experience loses some 
of its potency and only provides slivers of 
guidance, which are not always helpful.
Being so close to death, whenever an 
animal or one of their own dies, it is 
considered a celebration. Animals that

--- PAGE 16 ---
14
aren’t used for other means or placed within 
wraithstones have their bones displayed 
within the trees above to watch over the 
community always, serving as eerie wind 
chimes to outsiders. Whenever one of 
their own dies, they are buried in more 
traditional manner with the exception of 
the skull, which is removed and placed 
within the gaps and hollows of trees to help 
watch over their community. When elders 
die, their skulls are placed within sacred 
trees grown specifically to display them 
and where over time the subsequent fungal 
growth resembles the elders’ mortal forms.

--- PAGE 17 ---
15
Circle Features
As a member of this circle, your magic is 
influenced by the ecstatic fervor with which 
you celebrate nature.
MARROWBARK FORM
When you choose this circle at 2nd level 
and are transformed by Wild Shape, the 
beast form you choose also has the antlers 
of a stag (sized relative to the creature), and 
it is covered in tree bark and the bones of 
its own kind. The beast is granted a gore 
attack if it does not already have one as well 
as +1 bonus to its AC. While in this form, 
you may use your Wisdom bonus plus your 
proficiency bonus for attack rolls if it is 
better than that of the beast’s form.
Gore. Melee Weapon Attack: +X to hit, 
reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) 
piercing damage.
Alternatively, you can choose to expend a 
use of Wild Shape in order to instead remain 
in your humanoid form with the following: 
you gain a +1 bonus to your AC and 1d6 
temporary hit points, and you can use your 
Wisdom bonus for attack rolls in place of 
Strength or Dexterity. This duration is the 
same as if you transformed into a beast. 
CIRCLE SPELLS
Your connection to the deepest wood grants 
you access to certain spells. At 3rd, 5th, 7th, 
and 9th level, you gain access to circle spells 
related to the dying lands, viscera, and the 
spiritual journey of death. Choose spells 
from the list below. 
Upon selecting a new circle spell, you 
always have it prepared and this spell doesn’t 
count against your daily prepared spells. 
CIRCLE OF THE WEALD
Druid 
Level
Circle Spells
3rd
inflict wounds, misty step 
5th
fear, major image
7th
blight, confusion
9th
antilife shell, commune with nature
DREAMLAND TRAVERSAL
Your initiation with the circle has taught 
you how to leverage the Catharsis, and you 
employ it to gain insight when needed. 
At 6th level, you may re-enter this state 
by spending 8 hours of uninterrupted 
rest within the carcass of an animal that 
you’ve hunted or trapped and sacrificed 
yourself. The animal must be at least the 
same size or larger than you, and you must 
have another willing participant to sew or 
otherwise close the animal up once you 
are inside of it. Once inside, you focus on 
asking the Ancestor for guidance regarding 
a specific course of action you plan to take. 
Once this process is complete, you awake 
with a number of bone fragments in your 
hand equal to your Wisdom modifier (a 
minimum of one), and you emerge from 
the carcass having gained an omen per the 
augury spell. 
When events transpire pertaining to 
the omen delivered by the Ancestor, you 
can evoke one of the bone fragments as 
a bonus action to gain advantage on an 
ability check, attack roll, or saving throw 
related to the omen’s outcome. Once used, 
the bone fragment dissipates back into 
dreamstuff. If you have at least one unused 
bone fragment remaining at the end of a 
short or long rest, a new bone fragment 
will materialize (up to a total maximum of 
your original starting number). 
You may perform Dreamland Traversal 
once every 6 days, when any previously 
unused bone fragments dissipate. If your rest

--- PAGE 18 ---
16
is interrupted or other circumstances cause 
this to fail, it does not count as being used, 
and you may try again in another 8 hours.
WRAITHSTONE CREATION
Like the elders within your circle, you’ve 
gleaned enough knowledge of the natural 
world to be able to preserve the spirits of 
beasts. Beginning at 10th level, you can 
trap the soul of a natural beast inside a 
piece of petrified wood or a stone carved to 
resemble it. This is called a wraithstone (see 
wraithstone in “Baubles of the Darkened 
Druids” page xx). 
In order to create a wraithstone, you must 
spend 1 minute focusing on the beast’s spirit 
and transferring it into the stone. If the 
target creature has died within the last hour 
or is at or below 1/4 of its maximum hit 
points, the process automatically succeeds. 
Otherwise it must succeed a Will saving 
throw, in which case you cannot try again 
for another 1 minute. Successful creation 
of a wraithstone binds the creature’s soul to 
the stone. 
While anyone can receive the benefits of 
a wraithstone, as an adept of the weald, you 
gain the following additional options when 
using their charges, which others do not:
•	 Consult Specter. As an action, you 
can commune with the animal’s 
spirit, asking it a question regarding 
something it would have known or 
observed in life or something it can 
currently observe within 30 feet using 
truesight from beyond the grave. It 
answers you telepathically.
•	 Imbue Senses. As a bonus action, you 
can call upon the spirit of the creature 
within to grant advantage to your next 
ability check, attack roll, or saving 
throw.
•	 Siphon Fortitude. As a reaction, you can 
borrow from the beast’s spirit, granting 
yourself or a friendly creature within 5 
feet of you 2d6 temporary hit points.
Additionally, as part of the Circle of the 
Weald, you can call upon the spirit within 
the stone in a way that extends its charges: 
in your hands, a wraithstone has twice the 
number of charges it normally would.
ANCESTRAL POSSESSION
At 14th level, you can expend two uses 
of Wild Shape to manifest not only the 
likeness but also some of the powers of the 
Ancestor. You grow to a height of 8 feet 
tall, your head becomes that of a stag, your 
feet become cloven hooves, and a club and 
shield manifest in your hands, merging 
whatever was previously held into your new 
form. You gain the following bonuses for a 
number of hours equal to your druid level 
divided by 3, rounding down:
•	 Your AC can’t be less than 18 for the 
duration of your new form, otherwise as 
the barkskin spell.
•	 You can speak and understand Sylvan, 
even if you did not previously, and can 
cast spells as normal.
•	 Beasts, plants, and undead creatures will 
not attack you.
•	 Your speed increases by +10 feet. 
•	 Difficult and hazardous terrain made 
up of natural organic elements such as 
vines, brambles, or cacti no longer slows 
you down or hurts you.
•	 You wield a club that counts as a +3 
club, and when unnatural creatures are 
struck by this club, they must succeed a 
Strength saving throw or immediately 
become restrained to the ground, as the 
entangle spell.

--- PAGE 19 ---
17
D
ruids are some of the most resourceful 
individuals you’ll find, always 
managing to take what is readily abundant 
around them and create something useful. 
Not just useful, according to certain tales 
some of the creations of druidic circles 
can be credited for saving the world more 
than a time or two. The Circle of the Weald 
druids are no exception, and some of their 
elders, soothsayers, and nomads wander 
Midgard selling baubles and other magical 
items as part of the path laid before them by 
the Ancestor.
Below is a sampling of these magic items.
ASH OF THE EBON BIRCH
Potion, uncommon
This salve is created by burning bits of bark 
from a rare tree unique to the groves of the 
Circle of the Weald and then mixed with oil 
and blood to create a cerise pigment used to 
paint the body with profane protections.
Sigils. The following sigils can be painted on 
your body for a specific effect:
•	 Antlers—You gain the effect of the see 
invisibility spell (save DC 13). 
•	 Beak—You are immune to being 
charmed and cannot be scryed upon for 
1 hour.
•	 Claw—You cannot be surprised for 1 
hour.
•	 Hoof—Your remains are prevented from 
rising or being animated as undead for 
24 hours.
Smear. Swathes of your body can be 
smeared with the ash for a specific effect:
•	 Arms—You gain a +2 bonus to Strength 
for 1 hour.
•	 Chest—You gain advantage on one 
type of saving throw (your choice of 
Strength, Dexterity, Constitution, 
Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma) for 
10 minutes.
•	 Eyes—You gain truesight to 30 feet for 
10 minutes.
•	 Legs—You increase you speed by +10 
feet for 1 hour.
•	 Stomach—You gain a +2 bonus to 
Constitution for 1 hour.
BAUBLES OF THE 
DARKENED DRUIDS  
by Jerry LeNeave

--- PAGE 20 ---
18
BRAMBLESEED
Wondrous item, uncommon
You have a handful of tiny seeds that 
resemble pinecones. When a command 
word is spoken (no action required), they 
sprout into hardened clumps of bramble, 
acting as caltrops. Creatures injured by 
these caltrops must succeed a DC 13 
Strength check or become restrained until 
the end of their next turn.
CINCH OF THE WOLFMOTHER
Wondrous item, uncommon 
(requires attunement)
This belt is made of the treated and tanned 
intestines of a dire wolf, enchanted to imbue 
those who wear it with the ferocity and 
determination of the wolf. 
While you wear this belt, you can use 
an action to cast the speak with 
animals spell at will. You 
also gain the use of the 
druidcraft cantrip 
and have advantage 
on Wisdom 
(Perception) 
checks that rely on 
hearing or smell. 
Cursed. This belt is cursed. Attuning to 
it curses you until you are targeted by 
the remove curse spell or similar magic. 
Removing the belt fails to end the curse on 
you.
If you are reduced to 0 hp while the belt 
is worn and fail two death saving throws, 
you die immediately as your body violently 
erupts in a shower of blood as a dire wolf 
emerges from your entrails. You assume 
control of the dire wolf, and it gains 
additional hit points equal to half of your 
character’s maximum hit points prior to 
death.
If the wolf is targeted by a remove curse 
spell, then the dead character will be reborn 
when the wolf dies, just as the wolf was 
born. However, if the curse remains after 
the wolf dies, the character remains dead.

--- PAGE 21 ---
19
HALLOWED EFFIGY
Wondrous item, rare 
(requires attunement)
These small totems, crafted from animal 
bones and the skull of a tiny woodland 
creature, all bound in thin leather strips, 
serve as a boon for those loyal to nature and 
as a stinging trap to those who threaten it. 
You can use an action to secure the effigy 
on any natural organic substrate (such 
as dirt, mud, grass, and so on). While so 
planted, it pulses with energy in a 15-foot-
radius sphere, and at the beginning of 
each of your turns, it activates to effect all 
within range: you and any creature friendly 
to you regain 1d6 hit points, and any 
creatures hostile to you must make a DC 
15 Constitution saving throw, taking 1d6 
necrotic damage on a failed save or half as 
much damage on a successful one. 
This totem has 9 charges. Each round it 
activates, it uses 1 charge. While planted, it 
activates automatically each round unless 
you pick it up, it runs out of charges, or it is 
destroyed. It regains 1d6 + 3 charges daily at 
dawn. If it ever runs out of charges, it must 
be purified once again by a druid of at least 
5th level to be reused.
LUPINE CROWN
Wondrous item, rare 
This grisly helm is fashioned from the 
leather-reinforced skull and antlers of a deer 
with a fox skull and hide stretched over it. It 
is secured by a strap made from a magically 
preserved length of animal entrails. 
While wearing this helm, you gain a +1 
bonus to AC, and you gain a +5 on Dexterity 
(Stealth) and Wisdom (Survival) checks.

--- PAGE 22 ---
20
MANTLE OF THE FOREST LORD
Wondrous item, rare (requires attunement)
Created by village elders for druidic scouts 
to better traverse and survey the perimeters 
of their lands, this cloak resembles thick oak 
bark but bends and flows like silk. 
While you wear this cloak, you can use an 
action to cast the tree stride spell on yourself 
at will, except trees need not be living in 
order to pass through them.
OCULI OF THE ANCESTOR
Wondrous item, rare (requires attunement)
An intricately depicted replica of an eyeball, 
right down to the blood vessels and other 
fine details, these items are carved from 
sacred hardwoods by soothsayers using a 
specialized ceremonial blade handcrafted 
specifically for this purpose. 
When the orb is placed within the eye 
socket of a skull, it will reveal the last thing 
that was experienced by the person before 
they died. This lasts for up to 1 minute 
and is limited to purely visible and audible 
elements and no other perceivable senses. 
The flashback is delivered telepathically to 
you.
PRIMORDIAL PODS
Wondrous item, legendary 
(requires attunement by a druid)
These seemingly innocuous pellets are 
actually a mixture of leaves, spores, 
sacrificial ash, and rare powders made 
from the ground bones of ancient beasts, 
and they bring power to those willing to 
suffer. Sowing pods beneath the flesh gives 
them purchase to blossom as fungus covers 
the body in a layer of hardened growths. 
This disease is curable by a casting of lesser 
restoration in the first month. After that, 
greater restoration or more powerful magic 
is required. Once cured, unless the pods are 
removed or otherwise destroyed, they will 
reinfect the host after 1 week of dormancy. 
To activate the pods, you must embed 
them within your flesh, dealing 1d4 damage 
to yourself and creating a wound to house 
them. After 24 hours, the spores will begin 
to suffuse the surrounding tissue and a 
thickened, bark-like fungus will spread 
across your skin, granting a +1 bonus 
to AC. This process itches immensely 
and is extremely uncomfortable. As the 
fungus spreads, the changes become more 
dramatic. After 4 months, unless cured, if 
you ever drop to 0 hp, you can’t be brought 
back—but your corpse provides the perfect 
nursery for another generation of spores.
DURATION EFFECTS
1 month
You have a +1 bonus to AC and blindsight to 20 feet. However, your hit point 
maximum is reduced by 2d4 + 2.
2 months
You have a +2 bonus to AC and blindsight to 40 feet. However, your hit point 
maximum is reduced by 4d4 + 4. 
3 months
You have a +2 bonus to AC, resistance to nonmagical damage not from an 
adamantine weapon, and blindsight to 60 feet. However, your hit point maximum is 
reduced by 8d4 + 8.

--- PAGE 23 ---
21
WRAITHSTONES
Wondrous item, uncommon 
(requires attunement)
These stones are carved from petrified roots 
to reflect the shape and visage of an animal. 
Within one of these stones is the soul and 
spirit of a sacrificed beast. They are used to 
grant immortal life to animal companions, 
banish troublesome predators, and more. 
The creature’s essence stays within until 
the stone is broken, upon which point the 
soul is released and the creature cannot be 
resurrected or reincarnated by any means. 
While carrying this item, a spectral 
representation of the animal shows up 
beside you, resembling the creature’s 
likeness while in its prime. The specter 
follows you at all times and can be seen by 
all. It can be dismissed and brought back 
as a bonus action. So long as you carry this 
TENEBROUS FLAIL OF SCREAMS
Weapon (flail), rare (requires attunement)
The handle of this flail is made of 
mammoth bone wrapped in black leather 
made from bat wings. Its pommel is 
adorned with raven’s claws, and the head of 
the flail dangles from a flexible, preserved 
braid of entrails. The head is made of 
petrified wood inlaid with owlbear and 
raven beaks. When swung, the flail lets 
out an otherworldly screech.
You gain a +1 bonus to 
attack and damage rolls made 
with this magic weapon, and 
the target takes an extra 1d6 
psychic damage. 
When you roll a 20 on an 
attack roll made with this 
weapon, the target must 
succeed a DC 15 Wisdom 
save or be incapacitated 
until the end of its next turn.
WENDIGO TALLOW CANDLE
Wondrous item, rare 
Lighting one of these translucent, 
milky‑white candles lets off an immensely 
foul smell, the flame bending toward the 
nearest lone traveler while the caustic black 
smoke drifts off in the direction of the 
nearest evil-aligned creature. After one of 
these candles is snuffed out after being lit 
for at least 10 minutes or burns through, it 
will begin to snow in the area for at least an 
hour, regardless of the current climate or 
the time of year.

--- PAGE 24 ---
22
stone, you can interact with the animal as 
if it were still alive, speaking to it if able, 
though it cannot physically interact with the 
material world. It can gesture to indicate 
directions and communicate very basic 
single-word ideas to its user telepathically. 
Wraithstones have a number of charges, 
depending on the size the creature stored 
within them. Note that the more charges, 
the bigger the beast, the more expensive the 
stone will be. See Wraithstone Charges table.
CREATURE 
SIZE 
WRAITHSTONE 
CHARGES
Tiny or Small
6
Medium or Large
8
Huge
10
Gargantuan
12
As a bonus action, you can activate a 
wraithstone to perform one of the following:
•	 Bestial Vigor. You can deal an 
additional 1d6 damage on your next 
melee attack.
•	 Natural Selection. You can gain 
advantage on Wisdom (Perception) 
checks and increase your speed by +5 
feet for 1 minute.
•	 Wisdom of the Wilds. You can gain 
advantage on your next Wisdom 
(Animal Handling) or Wisdom 
(Survival) skill check. 
Each time a wraithstone is activated, it 
depletes some of the soul of the animal 
preserved within and consumes 1 charge. 
After all of the stone’s charges are used, the 
animal’s spirit is completely drained, and 
the stone becomes a mere bauble.

--- PAGE 25 ---
23
ELVEN DRUIDS OF MIDGARD 
by Mike Welham
W
hen you think of nature, you 
inevitably picture the elves and 
their empires, whether current or past. The 
forests they claim are testaments to the 
power they held over the natural world. 
Before the splintering of the elves, druidic 
practices remained largely unchanged, 
barring the rare shift among their leaders. 
But once the majority of elves retreated, 
those same awe-inspiring forests began 
to dwindle, so the remaining elven druids 
adapted, changed their relationship to the 
wilds and to the creatures living among the 
trees, owing to their new circumstances.
Druid Aesthetes 
of the Arbonesse
The elven druids of the Arbonesse 
Forest hearken back to the days of elven 
dominance. In defiance of the decline of 
elven civilization in the Arbonesse, the 
druids strive to create vibrant displays of 
beauty among the plants and animals within 
the woods they maintain. They used to take 
their cues from the Imperatrix’s Court, but 
Her Majesty’s current incapacitation has 
given them considerable autonomy in their 
aesthetic dictates. Gold and orange flowers 
have given way to vibrant purples and blues. 
The druids exert extensive control over the 
trees in the Arbonesse, extending autumn 
to maintain their glorious coloration. 
They further use their magic to blunt the 
destructive effects of winter to preserve the 
leaves. A tree that sheds its leaves before 
the druids deem it acceptable becomes 
firewood instead of standing as an eyesore. 
In late winter, the druids encourage new 
leaf growth, which pushes out the preserved 
autumn leaves.
Animals receive similar treatment at the 
druid’s hands. The elves husband the animals 
to ensure pleasing appearances, from 
animals’ coats to the shapes and sizes of tails 
and ears and even minute details like eye 
color. The beasts often have coloration and 
patterning found nowhere else on Midgard, 
making tales of purple-striped tigers seem 
unbelievable. The animals’ beautification 
makes them seem less threatening, but the 
druids do very little to blunt the instincts 
of predators, except perhaps to ensure the 
animals leave elves unmolested.

--- PAGE 26 ---
24
The druid orders wield considerable 
influence among the elves populating the 
Arbonesse. Since they control the forest’s 
plentiful beasts and plants, druids have 
significant resources at their disposal if 
disputes arise with the other elves. They 
generally don’t abuse their implicit power 
since they are more concerned with the 
forest’s appearance than with waging war. 
However, they do ensure clothing worn by 
inhabitants and visitors alike does not clash 
with their carefully curated color schemes.
Concurrent with their goal of aesthetic 
perfection, Arbonesse druids cultivate 
poisonous and aggressive plants that hide 
behind an attractive facade. The flowers of 
these plants release pollen that entices prey 
to come close, so then the plants can puff out 
a more concentrated packet of toxic pollen 
or otherwise attack. The druids use their 
magic to ensure the plants recognize elves 
and refrain from harming them. Likewise, 
the animals roaming the Arbonesse have 
an appealing and harmless mien, making 
it easier to trick potential prey into 
underestimating their capacity for violence 
or focusing on them to the exclusion of 
hidden predatory animals. The druids of 
the Arbonesse teach other elves about the 
locations and properties of the plants and 
animals. Though the elves enjoy protection 
from the dangerously enhanced flora and 
fauna, they need to know about them in the 
rare case they entertain non-elf visitors.
NEW SPELLS
The druids of the Arbonesse wield potent 
magics.
CHARMING AESTHETICS
3rd-level enchantment (druid)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a preserved flower or 
tuft of animal fur)
Duration: 1 day
You affect a group of the same plants 
or animals within range, giving them a 
harmless and attractive appearance. If 
a creature studies one of the enchanted 
plants or animals, it must make a Wisdom 
saving throw. If it fails the saving throw, it 
is charmed by the plant or animal until the 
spell ends or until another creature other 
than one of its allies does anything harmful 
to it. While the creature is charmed and 
stays within sight of the enchanted plants 
or animals, it has disadvantage on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks as well as checks to

--- PAGE 27 ---
25
notice signs of danger. If the charmed 
creature attempts to move out of sight of 
the spell’s subject, it must make a second 
Wisdom saving throw. If it fails the saving 
throw, it refuses to move out of sight of the 
spell’s subject. It can repeat this save once 
per minute. If it succeeds, it can move away, 
but it remains charmed.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell 
using a spell slot of 4th level or higher, you 
can target one additional group of plants or 
animals for each slot level above 4th.
TOXIC POLLEN
2nd-level transmutation (druid)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (allergenic or 
poisonous pollen)
Duration: 1 year
Upon casting this spell, one type of plant 
within range gains the ability to puff a 
cloud of pollen based on conditions you 
supply during casting. If the conditions 
are met, an affected plant sprays a pollen 
cloud in a 10-foot-radius sphere centered 
on it. Creatures in the area must succeed 
on a Constitution saving throw or become 
poisoned for 1 minute. At the end of a 
poisoned creature’s turn, it can make a 
Constitution saving throw. On a success, 
it is no longer poisoned. A plant can only 
release this pollen once within the duration.
Druid Militants of the Gennecka
While the druids of the Arbonesse are 
concerned with the appearance of their 
forest and its inhabitants, elven druids of 
the Gennecka Forest concern themselves 
with the inherent weaponry in the 
plants and beasts populating their forest. 
Gennecka elves shape trees to maximize the 
elves’ camouflage, to form hidden stands 
from which they can comfortably shoot at 
trespassers, and to act as potential weapons 
waiting for the druids to animate them.
If the druids encourage any sort of plant 
growth, they do so with an eye toward 
harming their foes or impeding movement. 
Brambles and thick overgrowth cover the 
forest floor, and nettling bushes crowd 
forest trails. Similarly to their counterparts 
in the Arbonesse, the elves guarantee the 
plants can’t slow down or inflict harm on 
elven inhabitants who don’t have the druids’ 
ability to move through hazardous plants.
Gennecka druids primarily raise predatory 
animals to protect the woods. These beasts 
have more aggressive temperaments than 
their ordinary counterparts and possess 
sharper teeth and claws (giving beasts an 
additional 2 points of damage with their 
melee attacks). Again, the druids work to 
protect other elves from predation by the 
beasts, but they haven’t perfected their 
control. They usually destroy animals 
known to have harmed elves, or they 
transplant them in cases where they can’t 
bring themselves to destroy perfect killing 
machines or when they can unleash a 
violent animal on their unsuspecting foes. 
When an animal becomes old or infirm to 
the point where their magic can’t heal it, the 
elves also destroy the animal.
The druids recognize the necessity for prey 
animals and stock the forest with rabbits, 
deer, and other such beasts. However, 
they train prey animals to respond to their 
commands, permitting them to override the 
flight response and instead stampede targets 
to create a distraction or, in the case of 
hooved or antlered animals, inflict grievous 
wounds. Prey animals that become ill or 
(more rarely) old meet a similar fate, but 
one consistent with nature’s course.
Gennecka elves are already on a war 
footing, so there is much cooperation 
between the druid orders and the other 
elves. The druids keep everyone apprised

--- PAGE 28 ---
26
of dangerous hunting grounds and make 
sure their efforts don’t accidentally hinder 
the archers’ ability to launch their arrows. 
They also craft and bequeath tokens, so 
the elves can animate plants or escape the 
notice of dangerous predators. A token is 
keyed to a particular elf to ensure it loses its 
effectiveness if it falls into the wrong hands.
Should Queen Osilessi return from the 
Summer Lands to reclaim the Gennecka 
Forest, the druids plan to restore it to its 
former glory, reducing its innate danger 
and making it more inviting to visitors. 
They feel like they don’t have that luxury 
while they protect the woods from the 
Mharoti Empire’s depredations, but they 
reason the queen will understand the 
forest’s current state.
NEW SPELLS
The druids of the Gennecka wield potent 
magics.
RISE OF THE GREEN
8th-level evocation (druid)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 180 feet
Components: V, S, M (a cutting from a 
treant)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
The spell gives life to existing plants in 
range. If there are no plants in range, the 
spell creates undergrowth and trees that 
persist for the duration. One of the trees 
becomes a treant friendly to you and your 
companions. Roll initiative for the treant, 
which has its own turn. It obeys any verbal 
commands that you issue to it. If you don’t 
issue it any commands, it defends itself 
from hostile creatures but otherwise takes 
no actions.
The animated undergrowth creates 
difficult terrain for your enemies. 
Additionally, at the beginning of each of 
your turns, all creatures that are on the 
ground in range must succeed on a Strength 
saving throw or become restrained until 
the spell ends. A restrained creature can 
use an action to make a Strength (Athletics) 
check against your spell save DC, ending the 
effect on itself on a success. If a creature is 
restrained by plants at the beginning of your 
turn, it takes 1d6 bludgeoning damage.
Finally, the trees swing at each enemy in 
range, requiring each creature to make a 
Dexterity saving throw. A creature takes 6d6 
bludgeoning damage on a failed save or half 
as much damage on a successful one.
You can use a bonus action to recenter 
the spell on yourself. This does not grow 
additional trees in areas that previously had 
none.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell 
using a 9th-level slot, an additional tree 
becomes a treant, the undergrowth deals 
an additional 1d6 bludgeoning damage, 
and the trees inflict an additional 2d6 
bludgeoning damage.
Freerunner Druids 
of the Rothenian Plain
Rather than bend nature to their will as 
other elven druids do, the elven druids 
in the Rothenian Plain work with nature, 
seeking only to protect the grasslands and 
the animals inhabiting them. Outside elven 
observers view this approach as proof of the 
elves’ feral existence and question whether 
the plains elves have any druidic ability at all.
The druids’ approach to nature involves 
noninterference in the course of life on the 
plains. They acknowledge their role in the 
overall lifecycle as simultaneous consumers 
and protectors of the plains’ resources. Thus, 
they make sure their numbers don’t grow to 
unmanageable levels, where they are forced 
to make a decision between their own people 
and the food they eat. Freerunner elves have 
a more carnivorous diet than other elves,

--- PAGE 29 ---
27
which has become a necessity owing to their 
nomadic lives. Even if they remained in one 
place, the druids would be loath to farm the 
land, which opposes their decision not to 
intervene with the natural balance for their 
benefit. Very few druids wish to discuss their 
belief that many of the woes inflicted upon 
the elves are repayment for their hubris at 
exerting their will over nature.
This is not to say the druid orders 
completely leave the plains to their 
own devices. When fire spreads among 
the grasses, the druids snuff it out after 
deliberations among their number to 
determine whether the fire is ultimately 
harmful. They also produce water when they 
see signs of drought and manipulate the 
weather to avoid killer frosts or temperature 
extremes detrimental to the plains’ plants 
and animals. Additionally, the elves help 
reduce the number of horses diseased by 
black strangles, and they intercede in cases 
where predators overhunt prey animals 
or where grazing animals destroy the 
grasslands in their hunger. When reducing 
the population of either type of animal, the 
druids use the meat to feed their tribes.
The druids of the Rothenian Plain carry 
tremendous spiritual clout among the elves, 
who are taught how to hunt to preserve 
the herds of grazing animals and the best 
methods for leaving little trace of their 
passing through the grasses. They were 
instrumental in the elves’ retreat to the 
east, spurred in part by the centaurs’ black 
strangles affliction. The druids have lately 
turned their attention to a cure for black 
strangles because they fear the disease will 
spread from the centaurs to others.
Given their attitudes toward other elves, it 
is unlikely for the plains’ druids to return to 
the forests if the elves were ever to reclaim 
their might in Midgard. Their tribes see 
them as spiritual leaders, so most elves 
in the Rothenian Plain will follow suit. 
In kind, the elves living in the remaining 
great forests desire nothing to do with their 
undomesticated kin and would hardly 
consider inviting them back into the fold.
NEW ITEMS
The druids of the Rothenian Plain wield 
potent magics.
FREERUNNER ROD
Rod, rare (requires attunement)
Tightly intertwined lengths of grass, bound 
by additional stiff, knotted blades of grass, 
form this rod. While you hold it, you leave 
behind no tracks or other traces of your 
passing while you move through grasslands. 
Additionally, you move through plants in 
the grassland without being slowed by them 
and without taking damage from them 
if they have thorns, spines, or a similar 
hazards. Finally, beasts native to grasslands 
must succeed on a DC 13 Charisma saving 
throw if they wish to attack you.
The rod has 10 charges. You can use 
a bonus action to expend one charge to 
increase your land speed by 10 feet or by 20 
feet if you are in grasslands. You can use a 
reaction to expend two charges when you 
become paralyzed or restrained, negating 
that effect. The rod regains 1d4 expended 
charges daily at dawn. If it is reduced to 0 
charges, roll a d20. On a 1, the rod collapses 
into a pile of grass seeds. Among the grass 
seeds are 1d10 berries, useable per the 
goodberry spell.
If you inflict fire damage to grasslands 
or kill a grasslands beast without eating at 
least half of its flesh (yourself or sharing it 
with others), the rod’s magic ceases to work 
for you, and you can never attune to this 
rod again.

--- PAGE 30 ---
28
OPEN GAME LICENSE Version 1.0a 
The following text is the property of Wizards of the Coast, 
Inc. and is Copyright 2000 Wizards of the Coast, Inc 
(“Wizards”). All Rights Reserved. 
1. Definitions: (a)”Contributors” means the copyright 
and/or trademark owners who have contributed Open 
Game Content; (b)”Derivative Material” means copyrighted 
material including derivative works and translations 
(including into other computer languages), potation, 
modification, correction, addition, extension, upgrade, 
improvement, compilation, abridgment or other form 
in which an existing work may be recast, transformed or 
adapted; (c) “Distribute” means to reproduce, license, rent, 
lease, sell, broadcast, publicly display, transmit or otherwise 
distribute; (d)”Open Game Content” means the game 
mechanic and includes the methods, procedures, processes 
and routines to the extent such content does not embody 
the Product Identity and is an enhancement over the prior 
art and any additional content clearly identified as Open 
Game Content by the Contributor, and means any work 
covered by this License, including translations and derivative 
works under copyright law, but specifically excludes Product 
Identity. (e) “Product Identity” means product and product 
line names, logos and identifying marks including trade 
dress; artifacts; creatures characters; stories, storylines, plots, 
thematic elements, dialogue, incidents, language, artwork, 
symbols, designs, depictions, likenesses, formats, poses, 
concepts, themes and graphic, photographic and other 
visual or audio representations; names and descriptions 
of characters, spells, enchantments, personalities, 
teams, personas, likenesses and special abilities; places, 
locations, environments, creatures, equipment, magical or 
supernatural abilities or effects, logos, symbols, or graphic 
designs; and any other trademark or registered trademark 
clearly identified as Product identity by the owner of the 
Product Identity, and which specifically excludes the Open 
Game Content; (f) “Trademark” means the logos, names, 
mark, sign, motto, designs that are used by a Contributor 
to identify itself or its products or the associated products 
contributed to the Open Game License by the Contributor 
(g) “Use”, “Used” or “Using” means to use, Distribute, 
copy, edit, format, modify, translate and otherwise create 
Derivative Material of Open Game Content. (h) “You” or 
“Your” means the licensee in terms of this agreement.
2. The License: This License applies to any Open Game 
Content that contains a notice indicating that the Open 
Game Content may only be Used under and in terms of 
this License. You must affix such a notice to any Open 
Game Content that you Use. No terms may be added to 
or subtracted from this License except as described by the 
License itself. No other terms or conditions may be applied 
to any Open Game Content distributed using this License. 
3. Offer and Acceptance: By Using the Open Game 
Content You indicate Your acceptance of the terms of this 
License. 
4. Grant and Consideration: In consideration for 
agreeing to use this License, the Contributors grant You 
a perpetual, worldwide, royalty-free, nonexclusive license 
with the exact terms of this License to Use, the Open Game 
Content. 
5. Representation of Authority to Contribute: If You 
are contributing original material as Open Game Content, 
You represent that Your Contributions are Your original 
creation and/or You have sufficient rights to grant the rights 
conveyed by this License. 
6. Notice of License Copyright: You must update the 
COPYRIGHT NOTICE portion of this License to include 
the exact text of the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any Open 
Game Content You are copying, modifying or distributing, 
and You must add the title, the copyright date, and the 
copyright holder’s name to the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any 
original Open Game Content you Distribute. 
7. Use of Product Identity: You agree not to Use 
any Product Identity, including as an indication as to 
compatibility, except as expressly licensed in another, 
independent Agreement with the owner of each element 
of that Product Identity. You agree not to indicate 
compatibility or co-adaptability with any Trademark 
or Registered Trademark in conjunction with a work 
containing Open Game Content except as expressly 
licensed in another, independent Agreement with the 
owner of such Trademark or Registered Trademark. The 
use of any Product Identity in Open Game Content does 
not constitute a challenge to the ownership of that Product 
Identity. The owner of any Product Identity used in Open 
Game Content shall retain all rights, title and interest in and 
to that Product Identity.
8. Identification: If you distribute Open Game Content 
You must clearly indicate which portions of the work that 
you are distributing are Open Game Content. 
9. Updating the License: Wizards or its designated 
Agents may publish updated versions of this License. You 
may use any authorized version of this License to copy, 
modify and distribute any Open Game Content originally 
distributed under any version of this License. 
10. Copy of this License: You MUST include a copy of 
this License with every copy of the Open Game Content 
You Distribute. 
11. Use of Contributor Credits: You may not market or 
advertise the Open Game Content using the name of any 
Contributor unless You have written permission from the 
Contributor to do so. 
12. Inability to Comply: If it is impossible for You to 
comply with any of the terms of this License with respect 
to some or all of the Open Game Content due to statute, 
judicial order, or governmental regulation then You may 
not Use any Open Game Material so affected. 
13. Termination: This License will terminate 
automatically if You fail to comply with all terms herein and 
fail to cure such breach within 30 days of becoming aware 
of the breach. All sublicenses shall survive the termination 
of this License. 
14. Reformation: If any provision of this License is held 
to be unenforceable, such provision shall be reformed only 
to the extent necessary to make it enforceable. 
15. COPYRIGHT NOTICE 
Open Game License v 1.0a Copyright 2000, Wizards of 
the Coast, Inc. 
System Reference Document 5.0 Copyright 2016, 
Wizards of the Coast, Inc.; Authors Mike Mearls, Jeremy 
Crawford, Chris Perkins, Rodney Thompson, Peter Lee, 
James Wyatt, Robert J. Schwalb, Bruce R. Cordell, Chris 
Sims, and Steve Townshend, based on original material by 
E. Gary Gygax and Dave Arneson.
Midgard Worldbook. Copyright © 2018 Open Design 
LLC. Authors: Wolfgang Baur, Dan Dillon, Richard Green, 
Jeff Grubb, Chris Harris, Brian Suskind, and Jon Sawatsky.
Tome of Beasts. Copyright 2016, Open Design; Authors 
Chris Harris, Dan Dillon, Rodrigo Garcia Carmona, and 
Wolfgang Baur.
Warlock 22: Druids. Author: Wolfgang Baur, Jerry 
LeNeave, Mike Welham, Ashley Warren. © 2020 Open 
Design LLC.

--- PAGE 32 ---
SUPPORTED BY 
 $9.99 
Printed in USA