--- PAGE 1 ---
Halflings
17

--- PAGE 2 ---
CREDITS
Design: Kelly Pawlik, Victoria Jaczko
Development & Editing: Scott Gable
Art Director & Graphic Design: Marc Radle
Cover Art: Pedro Potier
Interior Art: Pedro Potier, Karl Waller
Back Cover Art: Karl Waller
Publisher: Wolfgang Baur
Kobold Press, Midgard, Open Design, and their associated logos are trademarks of Open Design.
Product Identity: The following items are hereby identified as Product Identity, as defined in the Open Game License 
version 1.0a, Section 1(e), and are not Open Content: All trademarks, registered trademarks, proper names (characters, 
place names, new deities, etc.), dialogue, plots, story elements, locations, characters, artwork, sidebars, and trade dress. 
(Elements that have previously been designated as Open Game Content are not included in this declaration.)
Open Game Content:  The Open content in this book includes the Winterfolk feats, Riverfolk feats, and Courtfolk feats. 
No other portion of this work may be reproduced in any form without permission. 
© 2020 Open Design LLC
www.koboldpress.com
TABLE OF CONTENTS
“Winterfolk Halflings: The Hidden People of the Plains” by Kelly Pawlik ............................2
“Riverfolk: The Scattered People of the Trade” by Victoria Jaczko........................................12
“Courtfolk: The Quiet People of the Covenant” by Victoria Jaczko.......................................22
TM

--- PAGE 3 ---
2
throughout the lowlands of the Tunturi 
Range, trusting the rugged terrain will keep 
intruders from finding them.
HEARTS OF ICE AND IRON
Winterfolk homes are devoid of comforts, 
befitting a people that has come to almost 
relish hardship. When their lives become 
too comfortable, winterfolk begin to fear 
they have upset their ancestors and the land. 
They seek out challenges with a zeal that 
appears suicidal to others.
Winterfolk rarely let their guard down 
because a lapse in attention can spell 
doom for themselves or their community. 
Like their courtfolk and riverfolk cousins, 
community means a great deal to winterfolk, 
and they will give no quarter to any creature 
that seeks to threaten the freedom and 
security of their settlement. Otherwise, 
winterfolk regard their southern kin with 
disdain and sadness. They view other 
halflings, perhaps erroneously, as frivolous, 
lazy, and selfish.
The life of a winterfolk child is as rugged 
as that of an adult. From the time they 
can walk, they are expected to keep up 
with their family. As soon as they have 
the strength to hold tools, fishing nets, 
The Small Folk of Domovogrod
The origins of the winterfolk are shrouded 
in mystery. Sightings of them are so rare 
in most parts of the world that some doubt 
they exist at all. Sages debate whether or 
not they were a distinct people prior to the 
Great Retreat or if they were once courtfolk 
or riverfolk halflings who broke away from 
their kin when the elves departed. It is 
assumed they were once loyal servants to 
the elves like the courtfolk, and they still 
bear a great deal of respect for elves and the 
elfmarked, though they have little love for 
the shadow fey. 
Despite their scarcity, the winterfolk do 
exist. They dwell in the northern portions 
of the Rothenian Plains, particularly in 
the Duchy of Domovogrod, north of 
the Raven’s Road. Before the fall of the 
Silver Mountain Kingdom, they lived in 
comfortable huts and burrows in the hills. 
When the giants sacked the kingdom, the 
winterfolk were driven from their homes 
into the rugged wilds. Because they are 
almost always encountered while they 
are hunting, many believe winterfolk are 
nomadic. They are not. Small communities 
of them hide their sod-roofed huts 
WINTERFOLK HALFLINGS: THE 
HIDDEN PEOPLE OF THE PLAINS 
by Kelly Pawlik

--- PAGE 4 ---
3
or weapons, they are taught how to use 
them. Children are expected to hold their 
obligations to family and settlement above 
all other considerations. 
Winterfolk are superstitious. When a 
relative dies, they are cremated holding 
four stones, two in each hand, and the 
ashen remains are kept in an urn in a quiet 
place. A candle is burned in honor of a dead 
relative for four days following their death. 
On the fourth anniversary of the death, the 
winterfolk’s cremated remains are divided 
into four parts and left to be scattered by 
the wind in four different locations. If these 
rituals can’t be followed, winterfolk wisdom 
states that the dead will return as an ashen 
ghost to slay their still living family unto the 
youngest generation.
Women are held in slightly higher esteem 
than men within their settlements, and they 
tend to hold most positions of importance 
in their communities, though this is not 
universally true. All are expected to 
contribute equally to the family 
unit, and men 
are as likely to be found carrying young 
offspring with them in leather and fur slings 
while they work or hunt as women.
WINTERFOLK SETTLEMENTS
Winterfolk communities are most 
commonly found in the craggy foothills of 
the northern Rothenian Plains. Settlements 
are always small, rarely numbering more 
than two dozen individuals sharing a few 
huts. Most colonies are comprised of a few 
intermarried families, and rarely are more 
than two or three generations represented. 
Whatever crops the winterfolk can eke 
out of the unforgiving soil grow amidst the 
structures of the settlement. Winterfolk 
never plant recognizable fields, nor do they 
prune trees or bushes in the hopes that 
creatures passing through the territory 
mistake the chaotic jumbles of plants for 
wilderness rather than cultivated orchards 
and gardens.

--- PAGE 5 ---
4
Tools of the Winterfolk
The heart of each community is the forge. 
Winterfolk metalworking is done at low 
temperatures and most communities have 
at least one member capable of creating 
masterful coldforged items. Tools crafted by 
the winterfolk serve double duty as weapons 
as well. Farmers and herders are loath to 
overburden themselves by carrying spears 
as well as spades, so the blades of shovels 
and trowels are keenly edged. Rakes, hoes, 
pitchforks, and picks are built sturdily 
enough to split skulls as well as stones.
The winterfolk have devised many tools 
that can be used to both work the land and 
fend off creatures that seek to harm them. 
New Weapons
Many of the tools forged by the winterfolk 
can be used as weapons by simply 
substituting the closest approximation. A 
trowel acts as a dagger, a spade acts as a 
battleaxe, and a pitchfork acts as a trident, 
for instance. A few of the tools do not have 
easy approximations however and are 
detailed below.
Climbing Adze. This tool is made of a sharp, 
wide blade perpendicular to a short handle 
with a leather thong to loop over the user’s 
wrist. In addition to peeling the bark from 
felled trees or removing buried stones from 
the soil, a pair of climbing adzes gives the 
wielder advantage on Strength (Athletics) 
checks made to climb. 
Hand Trebuchet. The metal pocket of a 
hand trebuchet can be loaded with acid, 
alchemist’s fire, holy water, or other small 
containers of liquid. See the appropriate 
entry for the ammunition used to determine 
damage and other effects. As a melee 
weapon, a hand trebuchet deals damage as 
a club.
Stone Rake. Settlers use stone rakes to 
remove rocks and other obstructions 
from the soil prior to planting or building 
temporary structures. In combat, a creature 
using a stone rake can make a special 
melee attack to trip a creature up to two 
sizes larger, knocking it prone. When 
tripping a creature, the attacker makes a 
Strength (Athletics) check contested by the 
target’s Strength (Athletics) or Dexterity 
(Acrobatics) check (whichever is more 
advantageous for the target). If the attacker 
is able to make multiple attacks with the 
Attack action, the trip attack replaces one 
of them.
Whipsaw. A whipsaw is comprised of 
razor-sharp teeth loosely riveted together 
and attached to a T-shaped handle at each 
end. Used as a tool, a whipsaw allows single 
winterfolk to cut down a moderately sized 
tree relatively quickly and effortlessly. Used 
as a weapon, a whipsaw leaves grievous 
bleeding wounds that require medical 
attention to stanch. A creature that takes 
damage from a whipsaw loses 1 hit point 
at the beginning of each of its turns for 1 
minute following the injury. A successful 
NAME
COST
DAMAGE
WEIGHT
PROPERTIES
Martial  Melee Weapons
Climbing adze
6 gp
1d6 slashing
3 lb.
Light
Stone rake
10 gp
1d8 piercing
5 lb.
Versatile (1d10), special
Whipsaw
15 gp
1d8 slashing
2 lb.
Finesse, special
Martial Ranged Weapons
Hand trebuchet
4 gp
1d8 bludgeoning
3 lb.
Ammunition (60/240), special

--- PAGE 6 ---
5
DC 10 Wisdom (Medicine) check or 
receiving any amount of magical healing 
stops the bleeding. When not in use, a 
whipsaw can be coiled and hung from its 
wielder’s belt or pack.
Hidden Places
As befitting a race that values its privacy, 
the winterfolk hold a special reverence for 
several difficult to find locations scattered 
about the Rothenian Plains. 
Anguished Spire. This impossibly narrow 
stone spire stands in the southeast foothills 
of the mountainous region of the Rothenian 
Plains, approximately 215 miles from the 
Winter Tree. The near-constant wind, 
blowing from the north, causes the spire to 
emit a ghastly howl that has been described 
by visitors as the howl of a colossal banshee. 
Visitors who are 5–200 feet away from 
the spire are deafened by the buffeting 
winds. Creatures within 5 feet of the spire 
find the air is calm and silent, even the 
movement of cloth and the rustle of grass 
underfoot is silenced. The spire was erected 
by elven magisters shortly before the Great 
Retreat and serves as a seal imprisoning 
the rubezahl (see Tome of Beasts) warlord 
Ghurrich and his army of lesser demons 
and dark fey. If the spire is substantially 
damaged or falls completely, Ghurrich’s 
army will be released to wreak havoc on the 
region. Malicious fey often bedevil mortals 
that visit this location.
Fingers of Forgetfulness. The water running 
in this series of five short tributaries is 
sluggish, black, and deathly cold. The River 
Lethe taints this water, which is located 
approximately 50 miles northeast of the 
Winter Tree. Creatures who drink the 
water of the Fingers must succeed at a DC 
15 Constitution saving throw or become 
poisoned. Such creatures forget everything 
they experienced during the week prior to 
drinking the water. An affected creature can 
make a new saving throw every 24 hours 
to overcome the effect and immediately 
remembers everything the poison caused 
them to forget. Winterfolk who have settled 
near the Fingers of Forgetfulness use the 
black water to poison their blades and 
arrowheads. A creature struck by a weapon 
treated with diluted black water must 
succeed at a DC 12 Constitution saving 
throw or be poisoned for 1 minute.
Unseen Grove. Nestled beneath the ground 
approximately 2 days travel northeast of 
Olersheim, this copse of stunted spruce 
trees is only accessible via a series of narrow 
tunnels. That trees survive in this place at 
all is only due to the finger-wide beams of 
sunlight that penetrate the cavern ceiling. 
Penitent winterfolk travel here to confess 
their sins to the silent trees and sometimes 
bury evidence of their misdeeds. A narrow 
creek running with sweet, clean water bisects 
the grove like a fine silver thread. Sometimes 
the pilgrims visiting the grove aren’t simply 
seeking peace of mind. Winterfolk who 
have fallen into banditry sometimes hide 
in the trees and victimize other visitors or 
simply wait for them to leave and dig up any 
valuable mementos left behind.
Vistag’s Fall. Located at one of the highest 
points of the central Tunturi Range, 
over 10,000 feet above sea level, Vistag’s 
Fall is rarely visited by civilized people. 
The accused winterfolk traitor Vistag 
Highbadger was executed for crimes he did 
not commit by being thrown from this cliff. 
Visitors to this location must scale a steep 
shale-covered trail lined by jagged rocks 
and hardy ferns. Climbers who examine the 
ferns closely can find skeletal evidence of 
people who failed the ascent or who have 
met the Falls’ guardian. Vistag’s wraith 
haunts this location every night, seeking to 
avenge his wrongful death by visiting his 
rage and malice upon any living creature he 
comes across.

--- PAGE 7 ---
6
New Feats
This section introduces a selection of feats 
that allow you to further explore your 
heritage as a winterfolk halfling.
GIANT-FOE
Prerequisite: Halfling (winterfolk)
You are a bitter enemy of the giants and their 
kin that have conquered the Silver Mountain 
Kingdom. You gain the following benefits:
•	 Increase your Strength score by 1, to a 
maximum of 20.
•	 You do not have disadvantage on attack 
rolls using weapons with the heavy tag.
•	 When a giant scores a critical hit against 
you, it deals no additional damage.
PART OF THE PACK
Prerequisite: Halfling (winterfolk)
The wolves of Domovogrod are never seem 
to be far from your side and consider you to 
be a packmate. As an action, you can howl 
to summon a wolf to assist you. The wolf 
appears in 1d4 rounds and remains within 
50 feet of you until 1 hour elapses or until

--- PAGE 8 ---
7
it dies, whichever occurs first. You cannot 
control the wolf, though it will not attack 
you or your companions and will attack 
any creature you are engaging in melee 
combat. If you are level 4 or higher when 
you summon a wolf, there is a 50% chance 
you will summon a dire wolf instead. At 
the GM’s discretion, you may not be able 
to summon a wolf if you are indoors or in a 
region that wolves are not native to.
Once you have summoned a wolf with this 
feat, you must finish a long rest before you 
can summon another wolf.
RIMECASTER
Prerequisite: Halfling (winterfolk)
You have learned to adapt your elemental 
magic to reflect your northern heritage. You 
gain the following benefits:
•	 When you use your action to cast a 
spell, you can use your bonus action 
to change the type of damage the spell 
deals to cold damage.
•	 When you cast a spell that deals cold 
damage, you gain resistance to cold 
damage until the start of your next turn.
TUNDRA WALKER
Prerequisite: Halfling (winterfolk)
You are inured to the extreme cold 
temperatures of your frigid northern home. 
You gain the following benefits:
•	 Increase your Constitution score by 1, to 
a maximum of 20.
•	 You are adapted to cold environments, 
allowing you to automatically succeed 
on Constitution saving throws to avoid 
exhaustion while traveling through 
regions where the temperature is at or 
below 0 degrees Fahrenheit. 
•	 If the frostbite and hypothermia 
conditions (see Midgard Hero’s 
Handbook) are used, you automatically 
succeed on saving throws against 
nonmagical sources of them.
•	 You can move on slippery ice as though 
it were normal terrain.
•	 You do not contribute to the total weight 
when calculating the weight tolerance of 
thin ice you are moving across.
New Background
The new Silver Mountain Kingdom scout 
background is suitable for winterfolk 
halflings who hail from Domovogrod, 
though human and huginn characters from 
the region may find it suitable as well.
SILVER MOUNTAIN KINGDOM SCOUT 
When the giants of the Northlands sacked 
the Silver Mountain Kingdom, you were one 
of the lucky few who escaped into the wider 
environs of Domovogrod. What you were 
before the invaders came is inconsequential. 
Now you spend your time planning and 
executing strikes against your conquerors. 
The harsh wilds of the north have melted 
any softness from your body and spirit, 
leaving only a hard determination as 
unforgiving as the mountains themselves.
Skill Proficiencies: Nature, Survival
Language: Giant
Equipment: A hunting trap, a tent, a tinder 
box, a cold weather outfit, and a pouch 
containing 10 gp
Feature: Emergency Supply Cache
While you are traveling in the Silver 
Mountains, you can find and use small 
supply caches left by other scouts. Caches 
are small by necessity with a value that 
doesn’t exceed 5 gp. A typical cache consists 
of enough rations for four people for one 
day, two full waterskins, two torches, plus 
a dagger, a quiver of 20 arrows, or a case of 
20 crossbow bolts. You can find a cache by 
spending an hour searching. If you search 
for more than one cache in a seven-day 
period, the second takes two hours and a 
successful DC 10 Wisdom (Survival) check

--- PAGE 9 ---
8
to find. The Wisdom (Survival) check DC 
increases by 5 for each cache sought after the 
second. For example, if you are searching for 
a fifth supply cache in a seven-day period, 
you must search for two hours and make 
a DC 25 Wisdom (Survival) check. If you 
use the caches left by other scouts but never 
leave supplies for others to use, you risk 
gaining a negative reputation amongst your 
fellow freedom fighters.
Suggested Characteristics
Silver Mountain Kingdom scouts tend to be 
fatalistic with a grim sense of humor. When 
they allow themselves a rare respite from 
their struggle, they enjoy good food, strong 
drink, and other pleasures of the flesh. 
While they are executing an operation, 
scouts are focused and almost unshakeable 
in their determination to rid their homeland 
of the giants that plague it.
d8
PERSONALITY TRAITS
1
I will return my people to this land.
2
The giants and their minions have ruined everything. We must stand against them.
3
The people of the south are soft and decadent. They cannot endure the trials we have.
4
We might as well drink and enjoy ourselves today. Our lives may be taken tomorrow.
5
I am death’s architect. My weapons are the tools of my trade.
6
My will is steel. I am not scared, no matter the size of my enemy.
7
This land sustains and preserves us.
8
I will not fall until all evil has been exterminated from the world.
d6
IDEAL
1
Pride. My skill at arms is enough to gain me all I desire. (Neutral)
2
Hate. My war starts with the giants, but it won’t end until we slaughter all the savage 
races. (Evil)
3
Service. My obligation to my family comes first, then my duty to my people. (Lawful)
4
Freedom. I can do as I wish and roam where I may. No king or queen rules over me. 
(Chaotic)
5
Piety. The gods spin our fates. We are but pieces in their games. (Neutral)
6
Partnership. We must care for our companions and trust they will care for us. (Good)
d6
BOND
1
I will free my kin who are being held in Vellarsheim.
2
When I slay a giant, I keep one of its smallest finger bones.
3
My husband keeps the home fires lit while I ply my trade.
4
This spear has been handed down from parent to child in my family for generations. 
I will pass it to my first born when the time is right.
5
We are caretakers of the Winter Tree. If we preserve it, we earn passage to the Elflands.
6
Olersheim is the last bastion of civility in the region. I will protect it to the end.

--- PAGE 10 ---
9
d6
FLAW
1
I speak with contempt to people who are not from the north.
2
One never knows when they will be in need. I steal a small bit of food from every 
homestead I pass through.
3
I want to leave the north for warmer climates. We’ll never reclaim the Silver Mountain 
Kingdom anyway.
4
I have killed travelers and made it appear as though giants were at fault.
5
I trust all the people of Domovogrod without question.
6
There is no law in the wilds. I will do as I wish with no fear of consequences.

--- PAGE 11 ---
10
Winterfolk Magic
Spellcasters are rare amongst the winterfolk. 
Most take up professions as rangers, 
wanderers, and warriors, though some few 
join a druidic circle or a bard’s college. 
Fewer still take up the mantle of a wizard or 
sorcerer, and the odd individual who trades 
power for service as a warlock is destined 
to become an outcast of his community. 
Despite their lack of magical mastery, the 
winterfolk have developed a small number 
of spells which are usually passed from 
master to apprentice.
SPELL LISTS
The spell lists are organized by class. Each 
spell also indicates its school, tradition, 
domain, pact, or other origin. Check with 
your GM to find out which spells are 
allowed in your campaign.
BARD SPELLS
2ND LEVEL
Lure Prey (winterfolk)
CLERIC SPELLS
3RD LEVEL
Hearth and Home (halfling)
6TH LEVEL
Spirit of the Hills (winterfolk)
DRUID SPELLS
2ND LEVEL
Lure Prey (winterfolk)
3RD LEVEL
Hearth and Home (halfling)
PALADIN SPELLS
5TH LEVEL
Unerring Mark (winterfolk)
RANGER SPELLS
2ND LEVEL
Lure Prey (winterfolk)
3RD LEVEL
Hearth and Home (halfling)
5TH LEVEL
Unerring Mark (winterfolk)
6TH LEVEL
Spirit of the Hills (winterfolk)
SPELL DESCRIPTIONS
These spells are well-known among the 
winterfolk, but rarely shared with outsiders.
HEARTH AND HOME
3rd-level conjuration (halfling)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (two warm pebbles)
Duration: 8 hours
While under the effects of this spell, your 
body radiates a pleasant heat to a range of 5 
feet. For the duration, you do not gain levels 
of exhaustion from exposure to extreme 
cold weather or from the effects of extreme 
hunger or starvation. 
At Higher Levels: Casting hearth and home 
using a spell slot of 4th level or higher allows 
you to affect one additional creature per 
level of the spell slot used. For instance, if 
you use a 5th-level spell slot to cast this spell, 
you can affect three creatures you touch.
LURE PREY
2nd-level enchantment (winterfolk) [ritual]
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: 1 mile
Components: V, S, M (a wishbone)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
The location in which you cast this spell 
becomes too enticing for small game to 
resist. At the end of the casting time, the

--- PAGE 12 ---
11
caster breaks the wishbone in two and 
places both pieces on the ground. Within 
2d6 minutes, 1d6 beasts of challenge rating 
0 arrive at the spell location. The animals 
lured by the spell are all of the same type 
and are of species native to the region 
and environs in which the spell is cast. 
Creatures drawn to the location remain 
there for the duration or until attacked. 
While usually cast to draw food creatures 
to a location, enterprising winterfolk just as 
often use lure prey to bring small creatures 
through locations they suspect are trapped 
or to use the summoned animals to distract 
or draw the attention of larger creatures.
 At Higher Levels: If lure prey is cast with a 
4th-level spell slot, at the caster’s choice, it 
summons 2d6 beasts of challenge rating 0 or 
1d6 beasts of up to challenge rating 1. If it is 
cast with a 6th-level spell slot, it summons 
4d6 beasts of challenge rating 0 or 1d6 
beasts of up to challenge rating 2.
SPIRIT OF THE HILLS
6th-level necromancy (winterfolk)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Ancestral energies surround and fill you, 
transforming you into a paragon of the 
winterfolk. While under the effects of spirit 
of the hills, you have advantage on attack 
rolls and saving throws. You also have 
resistance to cold and fire damage as well as 
bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage 
from nonmagical weapons. 
If you fail a Constitution saving throw to 
maintain concentration on this spell, you 
can elect to take 1 point of exhaustion once 
the duration ends in order to maintain 
concentration on it. If you choose to stop 
concentrating on the spell, the ancestral 
spirits depart you in a rush, dealing 1d10 
force damage per round remaining in the 
duration to all creatures within 15 feet of 
you. Creatures damaged by this use of the 
spell can make a Constitution saving throw 
to take half damage.
UNERRING MARK
5th-level divination (winterfolk)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (an arrowhead flecked 
with dried animal blood)
Duration: 1 round per level
You are suffused with the spirits of 
your ancestors, who guide your attacks. 
While under the effects of this spell, your 
ranged weapon attacks hit their target 
automatically with no attack roll. Targets 
with three‑quarters cover or total cover are 
not affected by this spell. When calculating 
your ranged weapon damage, you subtract 
1 from each damage die rolled to determine 
the total damage dealt. While under the 
effects of this spell, you cannot strike a 
critical hit against a creature with a ranged 
weapon attack.
At Higher Levels: If you cast this spell using 
a 6th-level spell slot, the decrease to your 
weapon’s damage is negated, and you deal 
damage as normal for the weapon used. If 
you cast unerring mark using an 8th-level 
spell slot, all creatures standing within 10 
feet of you gain the benefit of the spell when 
they make ranged attacks.

--- PAGE 13 ---
12
F
rom ramshackle patchwork barges to 
the decks of fishing boats and smuggling 
vessels, riverfolk halflings are found along 
the greatest rivers of the Crossroads... and 
some of the less great. The gruff barge pilot 
in the wide-brimmed hat, predicting a 
river with near-prescient skill; the singer, 
stamping out rhythms on the deck while 
belting out bawdy songs; the charming 
huckster, swindling the big folk out of their 
savings for promises and trinkets with 
a gleam in his eye—all different but all 
riverfolk and all making their sometimes 
contentious homes wherever the current 
takes them. 
Barge-Born
Riverfolk are, by their own description, 
not as “fussy” as the courtfolk, bowing 
in Arbonesse, or their stodgy winterfolk 
cousins, scavenging in the Rothenian Plains 
and farther north. Riverfolk laugh more, 
drink more, fight more, and by their own 
consideration, have much more fun. They 
have dark coloring all around, various 
shades of woody browns from hair to eyes to 
skin. They blend as well with a dark alley as a 
ship’s deck. Men and women dress similarly 
RIVERFOLK: THE SCATTERED 
PEOPLE OF THE TRADE
by Victoria Jaczko 
in practical working clothing, mostly tough 
canvas or leather shirts and pants, and 
favor hefty, good-quality work gloves. Most 
riverfolk don some type of hat as a preferred 
accessory, from the floppy, wide-brimmed to 
caps bearing jaunty duck feathers. Riverfolk 
are small, as all halflings, a little stockier 
although more graceful than most.
Most riverfolk are found along the River 
Argent, especially around Zobeck and its 
neighbors, but wherever river routes are 
good, they go. These halflings have made 
themselves a home in most every river port 
where they’ve been permitted to spread. 
Zobeck, Magdar, the Seven Cities, and even 
Krakova—riverfolk found they can do a 
brisk business with the dead if one doesn’t 
get squeamish—regularly have riverfolk in 
their ports.
Preternatural Navigators
The courtfolk have it that the riverfolk and 
winterfolk were servitors like them but 
forsook their oaths following the Great 
Retreat and lost their connection to the 
Summer Lands. Riverfolk put no stock in 
this story; according to them, the riverfolk 
were once the only type of halfling there

--- PAGE 14 ---
13
was, and most riverfolk now are descended 
from the ones who didn’t get wooed by 
elven promises. As to why the elves took 
interest is a subject seldom brought up 
to outsiders: the riverfolks’ birthright, an 
inherent connection to the mysterious ley 
lines of Midgard. 
Riverfolk don’t claim any type of powerful 
arcane culture, now or ever, but they sense 
ley lines the way others can sense a storm 
brewing without a cloud in the sky. Some 
even learn to follow them, accessing the 
shadow roads for brisk travel or even 
last-ditch hiding places. Most take 
the presence of a ley line as a sign to 
be cautious and nothing more. That 
connection, however, must have 
surprised the elves and maybe even 
intimidated them—and so they took 
some riverfolk as favored servants in pretty 
cages and slowly warped that power into 
the glamour the courtfolk now possess. 
Those halflings who fled into their ranks 
following the Great Retreat regained their 
ley line connections over time but lost their 
glamour and longevity. According to the 
riverfolk, that’s all the proof they need of 
the truth.

--- PAGE 15 ---
14
Rough and Tumble
Riverfolk love matching strength and wits 
against the big folk—and against each 
other too, if the drinks are flowing. Their 
favorite competitive game is barrel walking 
along their decks or on the piers, a display 
of physical prowess. Riverfolk excel at it, 
and they’re glad to show off to romantic 
interests or challenge others, especially 
if money is involved. If riverfolk have a 
major weakness, it’s money; they aren’t 
attracted to luxury comforts so much as 
their frequent hobnobbing with big folk has 
taught them that money is the surest way to 
respect and freedom. This has given them a 
predilection to gambling, typically unable to 
resist a card or dice game. While halflings 
are notoriously lucky, they can push that 
luck to the limit. Once it runs out—well, 
there’s more than one reason why riverfolk 
make a habit of crime.
Riverfolk have shrewd business minds, and 
they go where the risk-reward ratio is best. 
Smuggling proved a natural fit for them, 
especially once they sorted out that few 
non-halflings could tell them apart. Barges 
keep complex smuggling schedules that 
operate primarily through word-of-mouth 
with illegal cargo seldom being shipped on 
the same barge more than twice in a row. 
The patchwork barges the big folk deride 
as floating eyesores are perfect smuggling 
vessels: they are infuriatingly hard to search 
as they go against typical construction 
layouts and have many hidden pockets and 
secret trapdoors impossible to distinguish 
from the main ship. In the time it takes to 
search one halfling barge that may have no 
smuggled cargo on it, two more have time 
to load up contraband and leave.
Few dare suggest the halfling barges be 
outlawed altogether however. Despite the 
complaints against smugglers, riverfolk are 
more notable for their remarkable capability 
in forging rivers, and few others can with 
the same efficiency. They’ve been welcome 
sights in remote areas in need of food and 
common goods and in the larger cities and 
kingdoms for the rare goods and news they 
bring back. 
Animal Ken
Most barges utilize draft mules to haul 
their boats upstream, but the going is 
notoriously slow and tedious. Riverfolk, 
however, enjoy a knack with animals that 
persuades their mules to work as part of 
the team. Riverfolk mules are efficient and 
determined, hauling their barges upstream 
faster with less goading and few mishaps. 
When asked if they use magic to get their 
animals to behave, riverfolk just shrug and 
say everyone works better when shown 
proper respect.
This knack extends beyond draft animals. 
Riverfolk fishermen enjoy bountiful catches, 
reeling in fish while big folk swear the 
river’s gone barren. Birds like to roost on 
riverfolk boats and homes and tend to bring 
small gifts when they visit, ranging from 
seeds to shiny coins. This respect goes both 
ways; while riverfolk seldom farm or tend 
gardens, they regard rivers with reverent 
consideration. Anyone showing cruelty to 
animals or polluting the rivers with filth 
or garbage are quickly introduced to the 
business end of a riverfolk pole. 
Some riverfolk explore these bonds further, 
leaving the hectic river-trade lifestyle for 
a while and becoming rangers and druids 
with special interest in river ecology. Stories 
circulate about a riverfolk barge being 
helplessly ravaged in rapids, only to have 
the waters separate around it with one wave 
from a halfling druid abord, and of greedy 
fishermen poaching fish in strained areas 
being overcome by schools of river sharks, 
the largest ridden by a riverfolk ranger.

--- PAGE 16 ---
15
River Workers 
Away from the elven courts and Rothenian 
Plains, riverfolk are the most common 
halflings other races meet. They still labor 
under the stigma of being “little people” and 
get taken for servants, holdovers from their 
courtfolk cousins’ dedication to indenture. 
As such, riverfolk have to fight for decent 
shifts in river docks across the big cities, 
and when they don’t get overlooked entirely 
for crewing the barges and riverboats, they 
often get saddled with thankless cooking 
and cleaning work or used for their 
small size for hard-to-reach repairs. As 
much as they can, riverfolk prefer joining 
barges manned by their own kind, but 
riverfolk with the funding to run their own 
operations aren’t common. The ones that do 
more often than not have patchwork boats 
put together with mixes of new material 
and those harvested from wrecked or 
decommissioned vessels—but if it floats, a 
riverfolk will make it work.
Riverfolk work hard on the docks, boats, 
and barges along the River Argent and 
the other major rivers through Krakova, 
Magdar, and the Seven Cities. The comings 
and goings of riverfolk from port to port 
means their population numbers are 
seldom counted, but they’re there. They are 
fishermen, warehouse workers, shipwrights, 
carpenters, smugglers, hucksters, pilots, and 
more, almost all of them eking out livings 
from the river or adjacent to it. A smattering 
of riverfolk can be found making a go at 
other professions inland, but the reasoning 
for sticking to the rivers is simple: they’re 
good at it, and it’s one of the few places a 
halfling might find respect.
The dream of many young riverfolk is to 
own their own river barge one day, whether 
freshly built or pieced together from scrap 
and determination. The great barges on

--- PAGE 17 ---
16
the Argent are almost tiny kingdoms 
unto themselves with the captain as its 
monarch and where riverfolk rule is law. 
Not that most riverfolk have any interest 
in ruling anything, but it presents a unique 
opportunity to be able to live as they like and 
not be obligated to put up with any big folk 
nonsense. Other races finding themselves 
working on or with passage booked on a 
halfling barge ought to show a little respect: 
the riverfolk like to deal with rudeness by 
letting the river teach the manners.
Rivers of Shadow
As of late, new opportunities have been 
surfacing for the riverfolk barges. For 
those willing to move cargo down shadier 
corridors than even the most nefarious 
smuggling route, shadow fey coin is being 
spent, and they’re being very generous with 
it. In exchange for shifting cargo—not all of 
it mere objects—between Zobeck and the 
Shadow Realm via the river-bound shadow 
roads, a riverfolk barge captain can come 
into significant wealth and power. Despite 
the temptation, many suspicious riverfolk 
judge such bargains as too good to be true—
just a case of some other type of elf finding 
a way to make halflings serve. They closely 
observe those who’ve made such deals, 
waiting and watching to see how quickly 
their newfound success flounders. 
Eye on the Prize
Riverfolk are among the most 
adventuresome halflings in Midgard. They 
can be impressed with tales of daring, 
valor, and—maybe most of all—promises 
of terrific wealth. It takes effort to woo a 
riverfolk away from their rivers, but with 
a notion of buying their own boat, buying 
their own dock, or simply elevating their 
kin out of criminal activity to survive, 
money makes a powerful lure. Their natural 
connections to the world make them potent 
druids and rangers, but their slippery, tough 
lot in life also lends them well to professions 
as a fighter, rogue, or scoundrelly bard. 
Riverfolk Names
Riverfolk are an independent lot and often 
jostled about among other races, like it or 
not. To maintain cultural ties, they favor 
giving their children older names of their 
ancestors or clever riverfolk heroes (mostly 
smugglers and captains). These names 
give way to nicknames quickly, a means of 
maintaining some control in the world—big 
folk don’t get the satisfaction of knowing 
their true names. Family names evoke a 
mix of natural themes and boat life and are 
combined elements from both mother and 
father. For example, if Margo Whitebottle 
and Rennie Halfknot have a son, they 
might name him Lothaire Halfbottle, called 
“Louie.” Riverfolk believe honoring their 
ancestry is important and don’t care if it 
makes their genealogy difficult for anyone 
else to follow.
MALE GIVEN NAMES AND NICKNAMES
Alain “Lain”, Amaury “Murry”, Augustin 
“Gus”, Basile “Bas”, Bertrand “Bert”, Casimir 
“Cas”, Corentin “Cory”, Cyrille “Cy”, Daniel 
“Dany”, Diodore “Dio”, Edgard “Eddy”, 
Fabrice “Fabe”, Francis “Frank”, Gabin 
“Gabe”, Ghyslain “Gish”, Guillame “Guy”, 
Honore “Rene”, Jeremie “Remy”, Jonathan 
“Jon”, Leonide “Leo”, Lothaire “Louie”, 
Marcellin “Marc”, Maximilien “Max”, 
Nicodeme “Nick”, Osric “Oz”, Placide “Cid”, 
Raphel “Rafe”, Renaud “Rennie”, Rodolph 
“Rudy”, Sylvestre “Sly”, Theophile “Theo”, 
Valerian “Val”, Yezekael “Zeke”
FEMALE GIVEN NAMES AND NICKNAMES
Amandine “Amy”, Apolline “Polla”, 
Beatrice “Trixie”, Cassandra “Cassie”, 
Doriane “Dori”, Emilienne “Emma”, 
Eveline “Evie”, Florentine “Flora”, Franseza 
“Frankie”, Genevieve “Vivi”, Giselle 
“Gigi”, Gwendoline “Gwen”, Heloise

--- PAGE 18 ---
17
“Ella”, Isabeau “Izzy’, Jacquette “Ketta”, 
Jocelyn “Josie”, Lilou “Lily”, Lorette “Etta”, 
Madeline “Maddy”, Magalie “Mags”, 
Majorlaine “Margot”, Myriam “Ry”, 
Nicolette “Nikki”, Noemi “Em”, Penelope 
“Penny”, Rosemonde “Rosie”, Roxanne 
“Roz”, Syvilanne “Sylvie”, Tiphaine “Tip”, 
Victorine “Vicky”, Zephyrine “Zee”
RIVERFOLK FAMILY NAMES
Argentford, Brookway, Craneship, 
Draughtbank, Eelprow, Finderfish, 
Greendrift, Halfeddy, Jetfrog, Knotreed, 
Loamford, Mistwood, Newtford, Otterflow, 
Prowflood, Quicknot, Riverbottle, 
Silverbrook, Turtlebarge, Underriver, 
Whitedrift, Youngwood
Riverfolk Halfling Traits 
Riverfolk are city halflings, usually 
growing up on docks, fishing boats, and 
the patchwork barges. Most are more at 
home on a temperamental river than on 
solid ground, and riverfolk seldom fear 
drowning. Despite their urban natures, 
riverfolk maintain a strong connection with 
natural forces. Riverfolk halflings have the 
following two traits and one modification in 
addition to the standard halfling traits.
Alignment. Most riverfolk are somewhere 
between chaotic good and chaotic neutral. 
They are free spirits, independent-minded, 
and chafe beneath the rules and restrictions 
others place on them. Some emerge as 
underdog champions, climbing their way 
through society to make things better for 
others, while others prefer to enjoy what 
they can get from a society that doesn’t want 
to give them anything.
Sure-Footed. You’re tough and strong 
despite your small size, no stranger to hard 
work, labor, and working muscle against 
the will of a river. Your Strength score 
is increased by 1. Additionally, you are 
adept at maintaining your balance on wet 
decks; you have advantage on Dexterity 
(Acrobatics) checks to keep your balance. 
Slippery surfaces are not considered difficult 
terrain for you.
River’s Child. You have advantage on 
Strength (Athletics) checks to swim. 
Additionally, you add twice your Wisdom 
bonus on your Wisdom (Animal Handling) 
checks with advantage if the animal is native 
to rivers or nests in riverbanks. You can 
sense ley lines that cross or run parallel to a 
river within 1 mile of you but gain no other 
benefit to tap into or unlock it. 
Riverfolk Feats
Riverfolk halflings have developed the 
following feats.
CONNECTIONS
Prerequisite: Halfling (riverfolk), Charisma 
10 or higher
Riverfolk have many diverse kin scattered 
across river ports in the Crossroads. When 
you need something badly, you know if you 
just ask around enough, you’ll find a cousin 
who knows someone who knows someone 
else who might be able to help you out:
•	 Increase your Charisma score by 1, to a 
maximum of 20.
•	 Whenever you are in an area with a 
halfling population, you can make a 
Charisma (Persuasion) check (DC 15 
in areas with 1,000 or more halflings in 
residence, DC 20 if 100–999, and DC 
25 if less) to get in touch with distant 
kin who can provide you with a service. 
As long as the particular service or 
item is available in the area, you can 
purchase it from your connection 
with a 5% reduction in cost for every 
5 you exceeded the DC on your check. 
In regions with more courtfolk and 
winterfolk halflings, you may still make 
the check, but these connections are far 
weaker; you have disadvantage on your 
Charisma (Persuasion) check.

--- PAGE 19 ---
18
•	 You can, at any time in a population 
center with halflings, make a Charisma 
(Persuasion) check against a DC 
20 to see if you know anyone there. 
(Populations that are mostly courtfolk 
or winterfolk impose disadvantage 
on this roll.) If you succeed, you find 
someone you know who is friendly 
to you; they will not provide you aid 
of any significant gold value, but may 
share local information, directions, a 
free hot meal, or a place to sleep or hide 
for the night.
LEY FERRYMAN
Prerequisites: Halfling (riverfolk), 
Intelligence or Wisdom 13 or higher
All riverfolk can sense ley lines when they 
intermix with rivers, but most of your kin 
use this knowledge to show caution and 
respect. You prefer to refine this sense to 
take advantage of the paths that ley lines 
open up to you:
•	 Increase your Intelligence or Wisdom 
score by 1, to a maximum of 20.
•	 You have advantage on Wisdom 
(Survival) checks to avoid becoming lost 
in any realm that contains ley lines.
•	 You do not incur a penalty on your 
Intelligence (Arcana) checks on Shadow 
Road Lore.
•	 While traveling a shadow road on 
a river, you reduce your travel time 
to a destination by 1d2 days + your 
Intelligence modifier (to a minimum 
travel time of 1 day).
UNDERFOOT
Prerequisites: Small size or smaller, Strength 
13 or higher
You excel at tripping up taller races and 
sending them to the ground:
•	 Increase your Strength score by 1, to a 
maximum of 20.
•	 While wielding a quarterstaff or barge 
pole, you have advantage on Strength 
(Athletics) checks to trip a creature up 
to two sizes larger than you.
•	 If using the fighter class Trip Attack 
Battle Master maneuver with a 
quarterstaff or barge pole, your target 
has disadvantage on their Strength 
saving throw to avoid being knocked 
prone.
Riverfolk Equipment
Barge poles (or quant poles) are about 10 feet 
long with a cap at one end and a prong at 
the other. Primarily used to propel or steer 
barges through the water, the forked prong 
at one tip prevents the pole from sinking 
into muck in the riverbed. Barge poles can 
be wielded as a bludgeoning weapon or 
used to stab with the prong for 1d4 piercing 
damage. Barge poles are clumsy weapons 
at best, even in the hands of riverfolk who 
have learned to wield them. In the hands of 
anyone but a riverfolk halfling, a barge pole 
is an Improvised Weapon and deals 1d4 
bludgeoning damage. Riverfolk may wield 
barge poles as simple weapons.
WEAPON
COST
DAMAGE
WEIGHT
PROPERTIES
Simple  Melee Weapons
Barge Pole 
1 sp 
1d6 bludgeoning 
7 lb. 
Heavy, special, two-Handed

--- PAGE 20 ---
19
Riverfolk Magic Items
Riverfolk halflings make special use of the 
following items.
RIVER TOKENS
Wondrous items, rare
These pebbles can be shaped like salmon, 
river clams, or iridescent river rocks. 
Regardless of the form, all give a distinctive 
shine in sunlight and radiate a scent of 
fresh, roiling water no matter how long it’s 
been on dry land. These tokens seem sturdy 
with light handling but crumble easily if you 
attempt to crush them.
You can crush a token into a river to calm 
the waters ahead to a gentle current for 1 
hour. Hostile creatures within the river or 
lairing on the riverbanks nearby (within 500 
feet) are soothed by the power in the token.

--- PAGE 21 ---
20
They must make Wisdom saving throws 
(DC 15) to be able to take any hostile 
actions for 1 hour; attacking an affected 
creature ends this effect immediately. 
Once crumbled, the river token is 
consumed. 
SMUGGLER’S COAT
Wondrous item, very rare 
(requires attunement)
When you attune yourself to this coat, 
it conforms to you in a color and style 
befitting your race and local culture. It 
has no visible pockets, but they appear if 
you place your hands against the side of 
the coat and expect pockets. Once your 
hand is withdrawn, the pockets vanish 
and take anything placed in them to an 
extradimensional space. A smuggler’s coat 
can hold up to 40 pounds of material in up 
to 10 different extradimensional pockets. 
Nothing can be placed inside the coat that 
won’t fit in a pocket. You can withdraw a 
specific item at will; when reaching for it, 
the correct pocket appears. 
If you desire, you can concentrate on 
keeping all pockets visible on the coat; 
there are four pockets, two on each side, on 
the outer coat, four on the inside, and two 
pockets in each sleeve. The pockets remain 
visible while you maintain concentration on 
doing so.
A smuggler’s coat is resistant to most 
damage, but deliberately shredding it, 
incinerating it, or otherwise subjecting it to 
massive damage can obliterate the coat and 
everything in it, though an artifact inside a 
smuggler’s coat will manifest elsewhere. 
Detecting the magic of a smuggler’s coat 
will not reveal the magical auras of any 
items it is containing.
Placing the coat with in another 
extradimensional space, such as a bag of 
holding, or vice versa will destroy both 
items and create a gate to the Astral Plane. 
The gate originates where the one item was 
placed inside the other. Any creature within 
10 feet of the gate is sucked through it and 
deposited in a random location on the 
Astral Plane. The gate then closes. The gate 
is one-way only and can’t be reopened.
Riverfolk Class Options
Riverfolk halflings have made certain classes 
all their own.
BARD: COLLEGE OF THE ARTS
Those who have been burned by a bard 
of “the arts” know exactly what sort of art 
is conveyed by the name: the art of the 
swindle, the con, and the huckster. 
Con artistry isn’t a profession all riverfolk 
claim, but the ones who do are very good at 
it. Halflings are an underestimated lot, and 
their happy-go-lucky dispositions, size, and 
apparent harmlessness makes them easy 
to trust. These hucksters take advantage of 
these traits to humble the big folk. The more 
noble ones among them are inclined to 
target haughty, greedy people who make life 
difficult for the lower classes, taking them 
down a few pegs to teach a lesson. Other 
hucksters, however, are more concerned 
with making money, and the only line they 
won’t cross is swindling their own kin—if 
even that.
In seedy riverside taverns, on rollicking 
boat parties, or off in dens and bazaars of 
dubious repute, so often are bards of this 
college found. When one “artist” recognizes 
another, they are quick to swap tales and 
tricks and the names of previous marks 
and potential dupes they haven’t gotten to 
yet. Unless of course the bards in question 
have made rivals of each other by lingering 
too long in a similar trade in the same 
place: then it can become a feud where one 
attempts to discredit the other before they 
both are found out.

--- PAGE 22 ---
21
MISDIRECTION 
When you join the college of the arts at 
3rd level, you learn the secret of keeping a 
target’s eyes everywhere but on what your 
hands are doing: 
•	 You gain proficiency in Dexterity 
(Sleight of Hand) if you do not have it 
already. 
•	 You have advantage on any Dexterity 
(Sleight of Hand) check to engage in an 
act of legerdemain or manual trickery, 
such as to conceal an item, make it 
“disappear,” or plant an item elsewhere. 
•	 As a bonus action, you can conceal or 
draw a light weapon that weighs no 
more than 1 pound. 
FAST-TALK 
Starting at 3rd level, you learn the secret 
that what you say matters less than how 
you say it. You can expend one use of 
Bardic Inspiration and spend your entire 
action talking to a target. Whether feigning 
acquaintance, asking questions, or simply 
jumping from one non-sequitur to another, 
your target must make a Wisdom saving 
throw against your spell save DC. On a 
failure, the target has the charmed condition 
and disadvantage on Perception checks 
for as long as you continue talking, up to 1 
minute (after the first round, treat this as 
maintaining concentration). Attacking the 
target breaks the effect immediately as does 
leaving the target’s line of sight or rendering 
the target unable to hear or understand 
you. Potentially hostile actions the target 
notices allow another saving throw with 
advantage. The effect ends at the start of the 
target’s turn once you stop speaking or lose 
concentration. 
HECKLE 
Beginning at 6th level, you can expend one 
use of Bardic Inspiration as a bonus action 
to heckle your target, a creature no more 
than 60 feet away from you, peppering 
them with insults, clever repartee, or actual 
rotten produce. Your target must make a 
Wisdom saving throw against your abuse. 
On a failure, the target subtracts an amount 
equal to your Bardic Inspiration die on their 
next attack roll, saving throw, or skill check, 
but the target gains advantage on their next 
attack roll against you. The effects only 
apply on the target’s next roll. 
MASTER OF LIES 
Starting at 14th level, your lies and 
falsehoods have become so convincing that 
you yourself believe them half the time: 
•	 Checks made against you to discern 
your deceits have disadvantage.
•	 You have advantage on all Charisma 
(Deception) checks. 
•	 Magical divinations from spells or 
items that can detect falsehoods or 
elicit the truth struggle to pierce your 
deception. Against such methods, you 
have advantage on any such effect that 
grants you a saving throw, and against 
effects without a saving throw, there is a 
50% you are determined to be truthful 
and a 25% chance the effect refuses to 
function at all.

--- PAGE 23 ---
22
N
o creature epitomizes the art of 
graceful service like the courtfolk, 
an accomplishment these halflings take 
with great (but quiet) pride. Courtfolk are 
defined by their dedication and deference 
to the great elven courts of old, but their 
identities are in flux in the wake of the 
Great Retreat. Now their oaths are sworn 
to the variable moods and personalities of 
scattered elfmarked lords, to the humans 
in large cities who see halflings as a simple 
labor force, and to rare elves who are not 
quite what they once were. Centuries of 
elven absence have been difficult on the 
courtfolk, but they, like all halflings, have 
proven capable of adapting to a world that 
no longer needs them as they were. 
Fey-Touched Finery
Courtfolk are as small in size and stature as 
any halfling. Their long proximity to elves 
and the Elflands shows in their complexion, 
usually pale and freckled with light-colored 
eyes and curly mops of hair. Courtfolk 
prefer neat, well-tailored clothing (most of 
which they make themselves) with touches 
of elven inspiration apparent without ever 
COURTFOLK: THE QUIET PEOPLE 
OF THE COVENANT 
by Victoria Jaczko 
descending into gaudy imitation. Men 
typically wear baggy trousers and tight 
vests and women favor flowing skirts with 
bodices. Colors are pastel or forest tones 
and muted, befitting a servant, but never 
drab. Elven jewelry is common among 
halflings of any gender as are smoking 
pipes. Courtfolk women particularly favor 
pipes of unique design.
Courtfolk are not motivated by material 
wealth or luxury, finding genuine 
contentment in simple things, but what they 
do keep, they desire to be of fine quality. 
They take pains to care for their clothing, 
family heirlooms, musical instruments, work 
implements, and other valued possessions. 
History of Servitude
The provenance of the courtfolk—indeed, 
all halflings—is the subject of speculation, 
and one the halflings themselves are 
curiously unconcerned with solving. Some 
suspicious humans maintain halflings were 
once human servants, but frequent exposure 
to the Elflands and the magic there left 
them stunted and enthralled to the fey. An 
occasional mage postulates the halflings

--- PAGE 24 ---
23
were wholly created as 
elven servitors, made 
up partly of Midgard’s 
substance and given 
life by fey magic.
The courtfolk 
themselves laugh off 
such claims. They 
maintain they are 
simply halflings, but 
unlike the reclusive 
winterfolk and sly riverfolk, 
they did not break faith with the 
covenant they forged, by choice, 
with the great elven lords and ladies 
of old. The courtfolk are what halflings 
should be, they claim, and their 
pitiable offshoot cousins are defined by 
their loss of purpose. 
Numerous families of courtfolk once 
served elven courts from Arbonesse to 
Valera and every holding in between. 
They were expert craftsmen, faithful 
seneschals, discreet handmaids, efficient 
butlers, reliable messengers, unexpected 
bodyguards, and talented gardeners 
such that their elven masters trusted few 
others with their breathtaking gardens 
and courtyards. While never ostentatious, 
halflings whose families served since the 
earliest days of the elves’ arrival bore a 
certain prestige among their own, respect 
owed for the lengths of their good service. 
Most of these families disappeared in 
the Great Retreat with their lords and 
ladies, separated from friends and kin. 
Those remaining behind honored their 
oaths, lingering in the fading courts and 
subservient to elfmarked descendants of 
once-mighty rulers. Time wore on, and a 
seed of sorrow took root in the courtfolk, 
though hidden by deference and cheery 
service. The names of kin gone since the 
Last Horn are recorded among them from 
generation to generation and repeated in 
their private songs and stories. 
Servants Without Masters
Courtfolk enjoy long lives, lingering in 
a pleasant old age for up to 350 years, a 
century longer than most halflings do. 
Most have a parent or grandparent who 
remembers the old courts and passed down 
their stories, mannerisms, and a keen sense 
of loss. As such, adapting to newfound 
freedom in only one or two generations has 
proven difficult for those who remained 
after the Last Horn. As observed with 
some small bitterness, those halflings who 
abandoned their duties and wandered 
away, becoming winterfolk and riverfolk 
elsewhere, seem to have had less trouble. 
Only the secluded River Court and 
the Imperatrix’s own Royal Court still 
maintain families of courtfolk servants 
in significant numbers. Outside of the

--- PAGE 25 ---
24
remaining courts, courtfolk struggle to 
maintain their family identities against 
their oaths, scattered as they are among 
elfmarked fiefs and baronies. Worse off 
still are the greater numbers of courtfolk in 
the young kingdoms, working as common 
servants to humans and other races without 
the mutually beneficial arrangements 
enjoyed under their old elven masters. 
Courtfolk families try to stick together in 
these circumstances, but kinship ties tend 
to unravel while serving those who neither 
understand nor are inclined to learn the 
necessities of courtfolk family relationships. 
Courtfolk without holdings or patrons 
to serve sometimes find places to settle as 
families. Reywald, a popular destination, 
has so many halflings that it supports Little 
Reywald, a halfling and gnome village north 
of the city. It’s not the elven courts, but for 
many courtfolk, it’s good enough to serve in 
the city and come home to family. Others 
realize they are very much stuck—nothing 
more than leftover servants for others to use.
In recent decades—and virtually unheard 
of before then—some courtfolk, primarily 
castoffs from the still-functioning courts 
or the rare halfling who emerges from the 
military with exemplary service, spearhead 
a business enterprise with their family. 
These businesses number a mere handful 
in Dornig and less in the Crossroads. Still 
beholden to courtfolk nature, such business 
attempts orient toward hospitality and 
service: artisan shops, bakeries, inns, plant 
nurseries, taverns, and the like. Breaking 
from the mold as servants and underlings is 
difficult. In order to do so, courtfolk must 
overcome dismissive attitudes toward their 
role as servants, which is uncomfortable 
for them. They aren’t predisposed to be 
ashamed by their lives of service. As a result, 
even successful courtfolk accept less than 
what they deserve and settle for subsistence. 
Hospitality, Home, and Hearth
Courtfolk maintain servitude was never 
forced upon them but freely chosen. This 
belief, true or not, gives them a sense of 
agency and relevance to their servitude. The 
profound delight the courtfolk derive from 
being of service to others and in performing 
a job well stems from knowing they have 
controlled their destiny. 
Service is an honor to the courtfolk. The 
halfling reverence for hearth and home 
is as strong in them as any other, but the 
courtfolk extend this reverence into the 
notion of powerful hospitality: as natives 
of this realm, they considered it a duty and 
a privilege to make the elves, guests from 
the other side of Midgard, feel welcome, 
comfortable, and cared for in a world not 
their own. Service comes to the courtfolk 
out of compassion rather than fear or awe 
(although certainly individual courtfolk may 
come to fear or worship their masters based 
on treatment), but it is deeply unseemly of 
a servant to point out what good service 
they provide. Courtfolk seldom discuss with 
others the importance of their role and find 
contentment in any reward, praise, or even 
an acknowledging nod from their patrons.
When exemplifying their role as perfect 
servants, someone could be excused for 
not noticing a courtfolk at all: they excel in 
drawing attention away, focused on their 
masters, and in moving through the world 
with quiet, unassuming grace. The same 
observer might be intrigued to discover 
courtfolk have rich private lives of their own.
Courtfolk have a practical, down-to-
earth culture, appreciating simple things 
like healthy gardens, a good book, cheery 
music, and the company of friends. When 
the courts they served could support it, they 
made their homes in partially underground 
burrows, all part of a greater community. 
A courtfolk home needed to accommodate 
multiple generations under one roof. In

--- PAGE 26 ---
25
recent times, more courtfolk take their 
lodgings wherever available where they are 
serving or increasingly attempt to establish 
their own homesteads and villages as they 
carve out new places in the world.
Gatherings are important to courtfolk. 
Servitude is usually a year-round affair, 
and getting halflings together for stories, 
matchmaking, and reinforcing ties can be 
difficult. Family connections are vital for 
a courtfolk’s well-being; no one but their 
own kin can truly understand the joys 
and sorrows of being called to service. All 
courtfolk are invited to gatherings, whether 
or not they can officially prove kinship. 
Unlike the stately and organized affairs they 
help orchestrate in elven courts, courtfolk 
gatherings are much more informal as 
details shift with the whims of their patrons 
and courtfolk adjust accordingly.
At a minimum, a courtfolk celebration 
must have lively music, excellent food and 
drink, the freshest flowers, sunshine, and 
as many kin, friends, and pets as can be 
gathered into one place. Most matchmakings 
are made at courtfolk gatherings as one of 
the few times when a couple can be in one 
place to receive blessings from both families.
In the Elven Courts
Within the courts of the River King and 
the Imperatrix, courtfolk serve elfmarked 
(or less commonly true elven) patrons with 
all the cheer and skill of their historical 
reputations. These are often the oldest 
yet remaining courtfolk families with the 
greatest prestige, but for all that, they have 
their hands full. Those with the Imperatrix’s 
Royal Procession in Reywald have had no 
end of logistical and political nightmares 
thrust upon them since she fell into 
slumber. The maintenance of the Great 
Procession, politely redirecting petitioners 
and emissaries to other parties, and keeping 
alert eyes on suspicious characters who 
might see opportunities in the Imperatrix’s 
indisposition consumes nearly all their 
time. What time they do have is taken up 
by their own kin who live in and around 
Reywald as common servants. The courtfolk 
in the Great Procession currently can’t turn 
around without yet another distant cousin 
angling to be added to the Royal Court’s 
servant retinue.
The River Court is largely withdrawn 
from most affairs as are now the courtfolk 
families who serve it. Here perhaps more 
so than anywhere, the relationship between 
courtfolk servant and elven master has 
continued with the least disruption. 
This idyllic existence has a complication 
however; as the elder generation of 
courtfolk have passed, the seclusion of the 
River Court has come into stark relief. The 
courtfolk here have had little contact with 
their kin outside of it, and many years pass 
without even hearing about a courtfolk 
gathering. Even if they did, many fear to 
leave and visit in case there is any risk of 
being unable to return. Courtfolk weddings 
and births have diminished here, and the 
families—among the eldest yet remaining 
on this side of Midgard—fear their current 
generation may be the last, yet setting off 
and away from the last true bastion of elven 
glory is even more terrifying. 
These troubles compound the heartache 
courtfolk feel for their long-lost kin and 
way of life. Little news travels between the 
realms anymore, and what does is about 
elven politics and concerns, not servants. 
Whatever is transpiring in the Summer 
Lands, the courtfolk know nothing of how 
their long-vanished kin are faring. The 
recent resurgence of elves in Arbonesse has 
given them hope however that perhaps at 
last things may return to how they were. To 
some courtfolk though, beginning to flex 
newfound independence, this is more of a 
worry than a hope.

--- PAGE 27 ---
26
Into Darkness
Courtfolk are strongly tied to their elven 
patrons, even following them during the 
Great Retreat. When the elves proved 
corruptible during the Sorceress’s Revolt 
and fell to shadow, many of their servants 
followed as proven by the gnomes and 
pixies serving in the Moonlit Courts. The 
courtfolk however were a notable exception; 
when their masters turned to dark powers, 
their courtfolk fled to the remaining elven 
lines. There is no record of any significant 
population of halflings serving in the 
Shadow Realm. While seldom investigated, 
it is surmised that the courtfolk dedication 
to hospitality and selflessness, combined 
with inclinations toward contentment, 
renders them immune to Shadow 
temptations of ambition and greed. 
Despite this, they aren’t incorruptible. 
While they cannot be swayed to dark 
powers with usual tactics, there is a growing 
population of courtfolk in Zobeck who have, 
since the Great Retreat and splintering of 
their families, been unable to find their own 
way. To them, serving the shadow fey—
serving any elf—is preferable to serving no 
one. These courtfolk are faded reflections 
of themselves, their sunny attitudes and 
energy muted and buried beneath a jaded 
cynicism. They remain excellent servitors 
but have lost the spirit of hospitality: the 
shadow fey send them to infiltrate targets’ 
households as mere servants, but they act as 
spies, rumor mongers, thieves, and in rare 
cases, poisoners with expert knowledge of 
deadly herbs.
Creating a Future
The courtfolk adventurer is less absurd than 
it seems, but their adventures tend to be 
motivated by one of two things: loyalty to 
an ally or generating money to look after 
their families. Service doesn’t pay well, 
and forward-thinking, younger courtfolk 
see that without wealth their families are 
going to continue being splintered apart 
in service to those who seldom appreciate 
them. Courtfolk aren’t motivated by greed 
but are shrewd enough to weigh the risks 
and rewards of adventuring and choose 
appropriately.
If unable to be with their families, 
courtfolk gravitate toward powerful 
personalities. They are picky in this, seeking 
good, benevolent people, but once they’ve 
chosen to befriend someone, that’s it. A 
courtfolk is a dauntless ally and comrade-
in-arms and never aims to steal the credit 
for their friends’ derring-do. Their loyalty 
and practicality make them faithful 
companions in the heart of a dungeon as 
much as an intrigue-steeped noble court. 
Courtfolk Names
Courtfolk names have an obvious elven 
influence, mired as they have been in 
elven culture for generations. Their given 
names are shorter than elves’ but with a 
notably softer and lilting flair than other 
halflings. Family names are borrowed 
from the common names of the elf that the 
family first served as vassals and prefixed 
by of. The older the lineage, the more the 
family’s prestige. Sometimes a courtfolk’s 
primary role is added to the end of their 
name, especially since the Great Retreat as 
more courtfolk lose touch with their family 
lineages. A River Court courtfolk might be 
named Silla of Stars-Cook, but in Hirsh-
Dammung, she is probably just Silla Cook.

--- PAGE 28 ---
27
MALE NAMES
Adan, Alis, Aran, Aus, Berri, Carr, Darris, 
Errian, Ervio, Galin, Immerin, Ivello, Luc, 
Pael, Perin, Rai, Ral, Ren, Rian, Soven, 
Taris, Tham, Thel, Van, Varr
FEMALE NAMES
Adie, Annas, Andra, Bethry, Cae, Dania, 
Elle, Felosa, Jelen, Keyle, Lathe, Lea, Merri, 
Mia, Naia, Netha, Phia, Quilla, Rynn, 
Shanna, Silla, Thea, Valla, Vara, Xan
FAMILY NAMES
Autumn, Brooks, Chase, Dances, Eyes, 
Flower, Gem, Hawk, Journey, Keys, Leaf, 
Moon, Night, Oak, Petals, Quick, River, 
Stars, Tower, Vale, Whisper, Young 
Courtfolk Halfling Traits 
Courtfolk are at home in elven courts 
and politics and have had generations to 
practice the art of remaining unnoticed 
until needed. They also care deeply for their 
companions and for the natural world, 
making them excellent in supportive roles. 
They make good rogues, though they care 
little for stealing, but also excel as bards, 
druids, or sorcerers, thanks to their innate 
glamour. Courtfolk have the following 
two traits and modification in addition to 
standard halfling traits.
Age. Courtfolk are the longest-lived of the 
halfling subraces, perhaps owing to their 
close association with elves. Courtfolk are 
elderly by their second century but enjoy 
relatively pleasant and unhindered old age 
well past 300 years.
Boon Companion. You are   quick to step 
in and help your friends, and you have a 
knack for knowing exactly how to best do 
it. When you work with an ally to complete 
a task or take the Help action in combat, 
your ally adds a d4 to their check or attack 
roll (this includes the second roll made 
with advantage).
Wee Glamour. You are—ever so slightly—
imbued with a bit of elven magic. You move 
with grace, your laugh is always pleasant, 
and colors are more vibrant on you. Your 
Charisma score increases by 1, and you 
have advantage on saves against spells of the 
enchantment school. 
VARIANT COURTFOLK TRAITS: 
SHADOW SERVITORS
Those courtfolk who elect to serve shadow 
fey are usually broken spirits to start with, 
and over time, the cracks in their souls 
become filled with something darker.
Disquiet. You still look like your old self, 
but your mind is changed by the knowledge 
you’ve accepted—and you’re not sure it’s for 
the better. Your Intelligence score increases 
by 1. Additionally, something in your eyes 
makes people uneasy around you. You 
have advantage on Charisma (Intimidate) 
and Charisma (Deception) checks against 
humanoids. 
Silent Steps. You’ve always been adept at 
evading notice, but now your own shadow 
seems to muffle the noise you make. You 
can cast the silence spell once per day 
centered on yourself, which you can end 
at any time by speaking. Additionally, 
you always have advantage on Dexterity 
(Stealth) checks made to be quiet.
Courtfolk Background: 
Court Servant
Courtfolk are a long-lived race, and old 
habits have been hard to shake. The majority 
of courtfolk, even independent now, were 
once servants at some point in their lives. 
These halflings are experts in complex 
social dynamics and knowledgeable in elven 
history and customs.
Skill Proficiencies: Insight, Nature
Tool Proficiencies: One artisan’s tools set of 
your choice

--- PAGE 29 ---
28
Languages: Elven
Equipment: One artisan’s tools set of your 
choice, a unique piece of elven jewelry, a 
set of fine clothes, a handcrafted pipe, and 
a belt pouch containing 20 gp
FEATURE: SERVANT’S INVISIBILITY 
The art of excellent service requires a balance 
struck between being always available and 
yet unobtrusive, and you’ve mastered it. If 
you do not perform a visible action, speak 
or be spoken to, or otherwise have attention 
drawn to you for at least 1 minute, creatures 
nearby have trouble remembering you are 
even in the room. Until you speak, perform 
a visible action, or have someone draw 
attention to you, creatures must attempt 
a Wisdom save (DC 8 + your Charisma 
modifier + your proficiency bonus) to 
notice you. Otherwise, they will conduct 
themselves as though you aren’t present 
until either attention is drawn to you or one 
of their actions would take them into or 
adjacent to the square you occupy.

--- PAGE 30 ---
29
d8 PERSONALITY TRAITS
1
Unless I must speak, I hold my breath while serving others.
2
It takes all my effort not to show the effusive emotions I feel when I help others. 
Best to quietly serve.
3
It’s getting harder to tolerate the prejudices of those I serve daily.
4
Though the old ways are hard to give up, I want to be my own boss. I’ll decide my path.
5
Serving my family and friends is the only thing I truly care about.
6
City life is killing my soul. I long for the old courtly ways.
7
It’s time for my fellows to wake up and be taken advantage of no longer.
8
It’s the small things that make it all worth while. I try to be present in every moment.
d6
IDEAL
1
Family. My family, whether the one I come from or the one I make, is the thing in this 
world most worth protecting. (Any)
2
Service. I am most rewarded when I know I have performed a valuable service for 
another. (Good)
3
Sloth. What’s the point of helping anyone when we’ve been discarded? Our existence is 
an elven joke. (Chaotic)
4
Compassion. I can’t resist helping anyone in need. (Good)
5
Tradition. Life under elven rule was best, and things should be kept as close to their 
ideals as possible. (Lawful)
6
Joy. The pursuit of happiness is the only thing worth serving anymore. (Neutral)
d6
BOND
1
My family needs me to provide for them. They mean everything to me, which means 
I’ll do whatever it takes.
2
My kin have served this holding and its lords and ladies since before the Great Retreat. 
I serve them faithfully to make my lineage proud.
3
I can’t read the inscriptions on this odd elven ring, but it’s all I have left of my family 
and our history of loyal service.
4
I’m with the best friends a halfling can ask for, so why do I feel so lonesome and 
homesick?
5
I’ve found a profession where my skills are put to good use, and I won’t let anyone 
bring me down—I’m already short enough.
6
I found peace in a special garden filled with beautiful life, but I only have this flower to 
remind me. Someday I’ll remember where to find that garden.

--- PAGE 31 ---
30
Courtfolk Feats
Courtfolk halflings have developed the 
following feats.
ADAPTABLE MAGIC
Prerequisite: The ability to cast at least one 
spell
You possess great finesse with magic, either 
by virtue of generations of ancestral service 
in elven courts or potentially knowledge 
gleaned from service to the Shadow:
•	 You learn one Metamagic option of 
your choice from among those available 
to the sorcerer class.
•	 If you already have sorcery points, you 
gain one more. Otherwise, you have two 
sorcery points, which recharge after a 
long rest. 
Courtfolk Magic Items
A few specialized enchanted items circulate 
among courtfolk families, either created 
by them or created for them, and most are 
intended to make their jobs more pleasant 
and efficient.
SENESCHAL’S GLOVES
Wondrous item, rare 
(requires attunement, see below)
These white gloves have elegant tailoring 
and size themselves perfectly to fit your 
hands. A pair of seneschal’s gloves must 
d6
FLAW
1
I would rather serve darkness than serve no one.
2
I’m afraid of taking risks that might be good for me.
3
I believe elves are superior to all other races, and I’m not afraid to share that truth.
4
I always do as I’m told, even though sometimes I don’t think I should.
5
I know what’s best for everyone, and they’d all be better off if they’d follow my advice.
6
I can’t stand seeing ugly or depressing things. I’d much rather think happy thoughts.
be attuned not only to a person but to a 
specific, habitable place with walls, a roof, 
and doors. To attune to a place, the gloves 
must be left in the location from one dawn 
to the next. The gloves cannot be attuned 
to a creature until they have attuned to a 
location although they can still be worn.
While you wear the gloves, you may 
unlock any nonmagical lock within 
the attuned location by touch, and any 
mundane portal you open while wearing 
these gloves will open silently. 
As an action, you may snap your fingers 
and every nonmagical portal within 30 feet 
of you will immediately close and lock itself 
(if possible) so long as it is unobstructed. 
(Obstructed portals remain open.) Once 
used, this ability cannot be used again until 
the next dawn.
STORYTELLER’S PIPE
Wondrous item, rare (requires attunement)
This long-shanked wooden smoking pipe 
is etched with leaves along the bowl. It 
is serviceable as a typical pipe, but as an 
action, you can blow out smoke and shape 
it into wispy images and manipulate them 
as silent image with a range limited to the 
10-foot cone in front of you and images no 
larger than a 5-foot cube. The smoky images 
last for 3 rounds before fading, but you can 
continue blowing smoke to create more 
until the pipe burns through the smoking 
material in it.

--- PAGE 32 ---
31
Additionally, if you use the storyteller’s 
pipe’s command word, you may blast a 
cloud of hazy, choking smoke in a 30-foot 
cone in front of you. Creatures within the 
haze have half-cover and must attempt 
DC 15 Constitution saving throws or be 
afflicted with debilitating coughing and 
wheezing, unable to speak or cast spells with 
verbal components and gaining one level of 
exhaustion, for 1 minute.
Courtfolk Spells
Of all halflings, the courtfolk are the most 
magically adept. 
WHISPERING GARDENS
2nd-level transmutation
Casting Time: 10 minutes
Range: Self (120-foot radius)
Components: V, S, M (a garden at least 
10-ft.-by-10-ft. large with cultivated, 
healthy vegetation to use as a focus)
Duration: 1 hour
You meditate within a garden and 
share your consciousness with 
the plants within it. For the next 
hour, all sounds, including speech, 
within the garden come to you as 
soft whispers through this link. 
These whispers are actual sounds 
and can be drowned out in 
loud environments, potentially requiring a 
Perception check (DC 15 for a noisy tavern 
equivalent or DC 20 for combat). In a quiet 
environment, it is possible for others to 
hear the whispers if they are within 5 feet 
of you and make a successful Perception 
check against your spell save DC. Only 
sounds inside the garden’s boundaries 
(determined by gates, fencing, hedges, or 
where cultivated plants give way to wild 
growth) are transmitted. The boundaries of 
the spell are set at the time of casting. After 
that, you may leave the spell’s area of effect 
and maintain your link with the garden. 
This spell transmits sounds with as much 
accuracy as possible while remaining a 
whisper. It does not convey individual 
voices or identify the source of the noise. 
This spell cannot be cast within range of 
sentient plants.

--- PAGE 33 ---
32
OPEN GAME LICENSE Version 1.0a 
The following text is the property of Wizards of the Coast, 
Inc. and is Copyright 2000 Wizards of the Coast, Inc 
(“Wizards”). All Rights Reserved. 
1. Definitions: (a)”Contributors” means the copyright 
and/or trademark owners who have contributed Open 
Game Content; (b)”Derivative Material” means copyrighted 
material including derivative works and translations 
(including into other computer languages), potation, 
modification, correction, addition, extension, upgrade, 
improvement, compilation, abridgment or other form 
in which an existing work may be recast, transformed or 
adapted; (c) “Distribute” means to reproduce, license, rent, 
lease, sell, broadcast, publicly display, transmit or otherwise 
distribute; (d)”Open Game Content” means the game 
mechanic and includes the methods, procedures, processes 
and routines to the extent such content does not embody 
the Product Identity and is an enhancement over the prior 
art and any additional content clearly identified as Open 
Game Content by the Contributor, and means any work 
covered by this License, including translations and derivative 
works under copyright law, but specifically excludes Product 
Identity. (e) “Product Identity” means product and product 
line names, logos and identifying marks including trade 
dress; artifacts; creatures characters; stories, storylines, plots, 
thematic elements, dialogue, incidents, language, artwork, 
symbols, designs, depictions, likenesses, formats, poses, 
concepts, themes and graphic, photographic and other 
visual or audio representations; names and descriptions 
of characters, spells, enchantments, personalities, 
teams, personas, likenesses and special abilities; places, 
locations, environments, creatures, equipment, magical or 
supernatural abilities or effects, logos, symbols, or graphic 
designs; and any other trademark or registered trademark 
clearly identified as Product identity by the owner of the 
Product Identity, and which specifically excludes the Open 
Game Content; (f) “Trademark” means the logos, names, 
mark, sign, motto, designs that are used by a Contributor 
to identify itself or its products or the associated products 
contributed to the Open Game License by the Contributor 
(g) “Use”, “Used” or “Using” means to use, Distribute, 
copy, edit, format, modify, translate and otherwise create 
Derivative Material of Open Game Content. (h) “You” or 
“Your” means the licensee in terms of this agreement.
2. The License: This License applies to any Open Game 
Content that contains a notice indicating that the Open 
Game Content may only be Used under and in terms of 
this License. You must affix such a notice to any Open 
Game Content that you Use. No terms may be added to 
or subtracted from this License except as described by the 
License itself. No other terms or conditions may be applied 
to any Open Game Content distributed using this License. 
3. Offer and Acceptance: By Using the Open Game 
Content You indicate Your acceptance of the terms of this 
License. 
4. Grant and Consideration: In consideration for 
agreeing to use this License, the Contributors grant You 
a perpetual, worldwide, royalty-free, nonexclusive license 
with the exact terms of this License to Use, the Open Game 
Content. 
5. Representation of Authority to Contribute: If You 
are contributing original material as Open Game Content, 
You represent that Your Contributions are Your original 
creation and/or You have sufficient rights to grant the rights 
conveyed by this License. 
6. Notice of License Copyright: You must update the 
COPYRIGHT NOTICE portion of this License to include 
the exact text of the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any Open 
Game Content You are copying, modifying or distributing, 
and You must add the title, the copyright date, and the 
copyright holder’s name to the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any 
original Open Game Content you Distribute. 
7. Use of Product Identity: You agree not to Use 
any Product Identity, including as an indication as to 
compatibility, except as expressly licensed in another, 
independent Agreement with the owner of each element of 
that Product Identity. You agree not to indicate compatibility 
or co-adaptability with any Trademark or Registered 
Trademark in conjunction with a work containing Open 
Game Content except as expressly licensed in another, 
independent Agreement with the owner of such Trademark 
or Registered Trademark. The use of any Product Identity 
in Open Game Content does not constitute a challenge to 
the ownership of that Product Identity. The owner of any 
Product Identity used in Open Game Content shall retain all 
rights, title and interest in and to that Product Identity.
8. Identification: If you distribute Open Game Content 
You must clearly indicate which portions of the work that 
you are distributing are Open Game Content. 
9. Updating the License: Wizards or its designated 
Agents may publish updated versions of this License. You 
may use any authorized version of this License to copy, 
modify and distribute any Open Game Content originally 
distributed under any version of this License. 
10. Copy of this License: You MUST include a copy of 
this License with every copy of the Open Game Content 
You Distribute. 
11. Use of Contributor Credits: You may not market or 
advertise the Open Game Content using the name of any 
Contributor unless You have written permission from the 
Contributor to do so. 
12. Inability to Comply: If it is impossible for You to 
comply with any of the terms of this License with respect 
to some or all of the Open Game Content due to statute, 
judicial order, or governmental regulation then You may 
not Use any Open Game Material so affected. 
13. Termination: This License will terminate 
automatically if You fail to comply with all terms herein and 
fail to cure such breach within 30 days of becoming aware 
of the breach. All sublicenses shall survive the termination 
of this License. 
14. Reformation: If any provision of this License is held 
to be unenforceable, such provision shall be reformed only 
to the extent necessary to make it enforceable. 
15. COPYRIGHT NOTICE 
Open Game License v 1.0a Copyright 2000, Wizards of 
the Coast, Inc. 
System Reference Document 5.0 Copyright 2016, 
Wizards of the Coast, Inc.; Authors Mike Mearls, Jeremy 
Crawford, Chris Perkins, Rodney Thompson, Peter Lee, 
James Wyatt, Robert J. Schwalb, Bruce R. Cordell, Chris 
Sims, and Steve Townshend, based on original material by 
E. Gary Gygax and Dave Arneson.
Midgard Hero’s Handbook. © 2018 Open Design LLC; 
Authors: Chris Harris, Dan Dillon, Greg Marks, Jon Sawatsky, 
Michael Ohl, Richard Green, Rich Howard, Scott Carter, and 
Shawn Merwin.
Midgard Worldbook. Copyright © 2018 Open Design 
LLC. Authors: Wolfgang Baur, Dan Dillon, Richard Green, 
Jeff Grubb, Chris Harris, Brian Suskind, and Jon Sawatsky.
Tome of Beasts. Copyright 2016, Open Design; Authors 
Chris Harris, Dan Dillon, Rodrigo Garcia Carmona, and 
Wolfgang Baur.
Warlock 17: Halflings. Authors: Kelly Pawlik, Victoria 
Jaczko. © 2020 Open Design LLC.

--- PAGE 34 ---
SUPPORTED BY 
 $9.99 
Printed in USA