--- PAGE 1 ---

WAYEINDI

DUNGEONS & > DRAGONS® 2 4

Explore the world ofEBerren
for the world’s great

\, 4 .

ead
eX.

RS GUIDE»
RRON

ON |

EP. 5

--- PAGE 2 ---

CREDITS

Lead Designer: Keith Baker

Design: Ruty Rutenberg

Additional Design: Jeremy Crawford, Mike
Mearls, Kate Welch

Art Direction & Illustration: Lee Moyer

Book Design: Will Hindmarch

Editors: Kenna Conklin, Will Hindmarch, Ruty
Rutenberg

Cover Illustrator: Chippy

Interior Illustrators: Grace Alison, Mitch Cotie,
Rich Ellis, Steve Ellis, Tomas Giorello, Howard
Lyon, William O’Connor, Steve Prescott,
Wayne Reynolds, Anne Stokes, Mark Tedin,
Francis Tsai, Brian Valenzuela, Anthony S.
Waters, Charlie Wen, James Zhang

This book includes some rules and spells that
originally appeared in Xanathar’s Guide to
Everything (2017).

DUNGEONS & DRAGONS, D&D, Wizards of the Coast, Fo!
all other Wizards of the Coast product names, and the!
Coast in the USA and other countries.

This work contains material that is copyright Wizards of t
with permission under the Community Content Agreer

All other original material in this work is copyright © 201
Content Agreement for Dungeon Masters Guild.

I THE WAYFARER’S GUIDE TO EBERRON
Playtesters: Teos Abadia, Kurt Caceres, Chelsea
Caine, Cory Casoni, Wayne Chang, Charlie
Chu, Kenna Conklin, Ryan Conklin, Jenny
Conlee, Chris Funk, Dan Garrison, Hrishikesh
Hirway, Jason Hobson, Noura Ibrahim, Kym
Jackson,Taliesin Jaffe, Jonathan Keltz, Derek
Mears, Jason Charles Miller, Marc Mohan,
Lindsey Mortensen, Marty Mortimer, Cig
Neutron, Kai Norman, Satine Phoenix, Milynn
Sarley, Austin Scoggin, Kristian Serrano,
Eugene Simon, Jimmy Tamborello, Shana
Targosz, lvan Van Norman, Kyle Vogt, B Dave
Walters, Scott Welker, Dinora Walcott

Special thanks to the people who helped bring
Eberron to life, including Peter Archer, Mary
Kirchoff, Lee Moyer, Christopher Perkins,
Steve Prescott, Robert Rapier, Liz Schuh, Mark
Sehestedt, Mark Tedin, and James Wyatt.

rgotten Realms, Ravenloft, the dragon ampersand, and
ir respective logos are trademarks of Wizards of the

he Coast and/or other authors. Such material is used
nent for Dungeon Masters Guild.

8 by Keith Baker, and published under the Community

--- PAGE 3 ---

INTRODUCTION ss sssssnssssnsnsnssnsesened 4

CHAPTER ONE: WHAT IS EBERRON? ............. 5

A Magical World .........ccceecesesesseseseseseeneseseeseeneeeens
Pulp Adventure .....
Neo-Noir Intrigue . .
The Last War ........ 12
The Mourning ...... 14
Ancient Mysteries .........ccceesesssssesesesenesesessesenseeeeess 17
If It Exists In D&D,
There’s A Place for It in Eberron «0.0... cece 19
CHAPTER 2: WELCOME TO KHORVAIRE ............. 21

Nations of Eberron .........:cccceseeseeseereereeeeee
Aundair .....
Breland ou... eee

Cyre (The Mournland)
Darguun on.
The Demon Wastes ..
Droaam  ......eeeeeeeeees
The Eldeen Reaches ..........:cccesesecseeeeeseeseteeseeeneeeeenes
Karrrathy oe. eeccceceescesseseeseeseceeeeeeeseeeeeeeeseeaeeseesneeeenes
The Lhazaar Principalities
The Mror Holds .........ccccescessesseeseeseeseeeeeeeeeeseeaeeneeaes
Q?DALTA oo. eeeeseseeeeeesesceeeeesesenesesesseseseseneserseseneeeeeeaes
The Shadow Marches ..
The Talenta Plains 20.0.0... .cceceeceeseeseeseeseeseeeeeseeseeneesees
Thrane
Valenar ...

MAGIC IN KHORVAIRE ow... ceseeeeeeeeeeeeeenene 41
Magewrights ......ccccsesssseseseseseseseseseseeseeenesesesesesenesess 42
Wandslingers .......cccccsessseesesseseseseesseeesesesesenesesersenees 43
The Magical Economy ........cccceseseseeseseseeeeeenenenens 44
Faiths of Khorvaire.......ccccceseseeeeseesseeseeeseeeneeeeeeees 48
Distant Lands .......cccsesesssssseeeseseseseesesssessssseesenenenenes 52
Eberron: Above and Beyond ...........ccsseeeeseseneeees 55

CHAPTER 3: RACES OF EBERRON .
Changelings 0... eeeeeereneeee
SHifte rs oe ee eeceeseeseesseseeseeeeeeseesesseeeceeeeeeeseeaeeesseeeeeenes
Warforged......c.cceceecesesessescesessesesesesesesesseasesseeeeneeses
Dwarves .....

Gnomes .....
Half-Elves ..
Half-Orcs ...

Other Races ...ccceeceesceseeseeseeseceeeeeeeseseeseeeeseeeeseeseeaeenees
ENTS

CHAPTER 4: DRAGONMARKS us esssssssssne 89

Creating a Dragonmarked Character
Dragonmarks and Backgrounds ........ ..90
The Powers of the Mark ............. 91
Dragonmark Appearance ...

Background ou... 94
The Mark of Detection. 96
The Mark of Finding ...... 97
The Mark of Handling 0.0.0... cece eeeesenenereeeeneee 98
The Mark of Healing... cceeeeseseeeneneeeeeeneee 99
The Mark of Hospitality .. ”
The Mark of Making ..........cceeceeseseseeeeseseseneseeeesenes 101
The Mark of Passage ........cssccccesesseseesereseeseeeseseneeees 102
The Mark of Scribing .. ”
The Mark of Sentinel ..0.......ccceceseseeeeeeeeseeneneseeeenees 104
The Mark of Shadow ..........ccecceseseseseeeeseeeeeeseeeeeeees 105
The Mark of Storm -
The Mark of Warding 00... ccecesesessesseeseereeseneeeeeene 108
Greater Dragonmarks 00.0.0... cccecseseeeeeeeseseneneeeeeenees 109
Aberrant Dragonmarks 0.0.0.0... ccs seeeeeeeeeeseneees 111
CHAPTER 5: MAGIC ITEMS un... sssssssssssssssnsn 113
Magic Items 0... cece eesesseseseseseseeeseecseseesesessenees 114
CHAPTER 6: SHARN, CITY OF TOWERS.............. 123
Sharn Backgrounds ou... scene 124
The Shape of Sharn ....... 131
Central Plateau Quarter .. 134
Dura Quarter oc. 135
Menthis Plateau Quarter . .. 136
Northedge Quarter ............. ..137
Tavick’s Landing Quarter ... 138
Sharn: Above and Below .........cccccssseeseeeseneeeeeees
Things to Do in Sharm... cece eeeeee eeeeeseeneee aces
Criminal Activities in Sharn -
Starting Points oo... eeeeesesesereneseeeeseseenesessenees
Starting Point: Callestam ......... ccs eeeseseneeeeeeeeneee
Starting Point: Clifftop -
Starting Point: Morgrave University «00.0.0... 152
A Quick Sharn Story .....cccceseseeeseseseseseeeeseseneneees 155
The Streets of Sharn ........ccceeeseseeesseseseseneeeseesesee 157
APPENDIX A: FURTHER READING................... 134
Eberron Sourcebooks
Eberron Novels ............
APPENDIX B: GLOSSARY ........ssssssssssssssnsnsssene 137

APPENDIX C: DRAGONMARKED HOUSE CRESTS. 142

THE WAYFARER’S GUIDE TO EBERRON Il

--- PAGE 4 ---

4

INTRODUCTION

Arcs of electricity spark and flare, carrying the
lightning rail toward the bridge. If Sundry 1s
telling the truth, the train holds a fortune in Cyran
gold... a fortune that rightfully belongs to the
refugees scattered across Breland. And if Sundry is
telling the truth, that gold 1s guarded by a cadre of
undead soldiers, the elite warriors of Karrnath.

The airship Revenge glides towards the bridge.
The warforged ranger Pierce holds his sword in
his night hand; with his left, he clings to the edge
of Revenge. Pierce is a living weapon, built

to fight for the people of Cyre. In a moment he'll
release his grip, and if he tumes it right he'll land
atop the coach and have a chance to reclaim the
lost treasure. If he tumes tt wrong, he'll be smashed
to preces at the bottom of the canyon.

A human would hold his breath, but Pierce
doesn’t breathe. He just waits as Revenge passes
over the bridge, and then he releases his grip.

BERRON WAS BORN IN 2002 WHEN

Wizards of the Coast launched

a worldwide search for a new

campaign setting. I imagined a

world of swashbuckling adventure
and dark fantasy, a place where magic formed
the foundation of civilization. Over the course of
the next year I worked with a team of amazing
artists and game designers to refine and develop
that core idea, and the end result was the Eberron
Campaign Setting. In the years that followed, a
host of authors, designers, and dungeon masters
across the world have continued to expand and
explore this setting.

This book brings Eberron to the fifth edition of
DuncEoNs & DRAGONS, providing an overview
of the core themes of the setting and the rules to
connect them to current campaigns. It explores
the continent of Khorvaire and the great city of
Sharn. The Wayfinder’s Guide provides ideas and

THE WAYFARER’S GUIDE TO EBERRON
hooks for compelling adventures, as well as an
appendix with a list of sources you can use to
learn more about the setting.
Bear in mind: this book presents my vision

of Eberron. This is the world I run at my own
table, and the way that I’ve converted its ideas

to the fifth edition rules. All of the material here
is presented for playtesting and to spark your
imagination. The game mechanics are in draft
form, usable in your campaign but not refined
by final game design and editing. They aren’t
officially part of the game and aren’t permitted in
D&D Adventurers League events. If Wizards of
the Coast decides to make this material official, it
will be refined based on your feedback and then
appear in a D&D book. Beyond that: Eberron

is your world as much as it is mine. I hope that
this book provides you with

inspiration, but don’t
be limited by my
ideas or decisions.
Think of this
as something
you can

build upon, mm
Ca hee t
notacodexof 4 Pedi de

absolute law. Td SN ®

aor

Welcome
to Eberron:
let’s explore!

SEAN

O\Waatk'

--- PAGE 5 ---

CHAPTER ONE: WHAT IS EBE

In an ancient ruin beneath the Demon Wastes, a
band of heroes race to claim the Reaper’s Heart.
[f the agents of the Emerald Claw reach tt first,
they'll unleash an army of the dead against the
people of Khorvaire...

In the city of Sharn, a brilliant team of spies

pull off'an impossible scheme—breaking into

the impenetrable vaults of House Kundarak. But
instead of gold, they find a secret that could shatter
the fragile peace between the Five Nations...

On the deck of an airship, a wizard debates the
interpretation of an ancient prophecy with a blood-
red dragon. If the sage loses the debate, the dragon
will destroy the airship and everyone on it. But if
she wins the argument the dragon will take them
to distant Argonnessen... and no human has ever
seen the land of dragons and returned!

HAT IS EBERRON? IT’S A WORLD

bound by a golden ring

and surrounded by twelve

moons. It’s the intersection of

thirteen planes of existence,
which shift in and out of alignment. It’s a place
where magic has been harnessed as a tool—used
to build cities, to sail ships through the skies, to
create both wonders and weapons.

Eberron embraces swashbuckling action and
pulp adventure and adds a layer of neo-noir
intrigue. Stories don’t always end well and there
isn’t a perfect answer to every problem. The
Last War turned old allies into bitter enemies
and destroyed an entire nation, leaving terrible
scars behind. Crime and corruption lurk in the
great cities of Khorvaire. Hidden dragons shape
the course of history. Sinister fiends influence
the dreams of the unwary. Human greed and
ambition may prove more dangerous than any
devil or demon. But through this darkness, there
are opportunities for a group of bold adventurers
to make a difference... for better or for worse.
RRON?

This chapter explores these core themes

and the ways that they can affect the stories or
characters you create in Eberron. Here’s a quick
overview of what lies ahead.

A Magical World. From warforged

and airships to the mighty dragonmarked
houses, magic 1s a part of the world and its
stories.

Pulp Adventure. Whether you’re
leaping from an airship or battling demons
in forgotten ruins, Eberron encourages
cinematic action and swashbuckling
adventure.

Neo-Noir Intrigue. Eberron is a world
of difficult choices. The line between hero
and villain is easily blurred, and even the
champions of the light may have things
they regret.

The Last War. Eberron has just emerged
from a century-long civil war, and the scars
of that bitter conflict remain. How did the
war affect your character, and how will it
shape your story?

The Mourning. This mystical cataclysm
destroyed an entire nation and created a
deadly wasteland in the heart of Khorvaire.
The Mourning brought the war to an end,
but it is a mystery and a threat that looms
large over Eberron.

Ancient Mysteries. Powerful artifacts
are hidden in the ruined cities of giants.
Dragons and demons scheme in the
shadows, unraveling a prophecy that could
shape the future. These ancient mysteries
can be a source of fantastic adventures and
terrible danger.

If it exists in D&D, it has a place in
Eberron... But it may not be the place
you're used to.

These elements are all part of Eberron, but

you don’t have to use all of them in every story.
As you go through this chapter, decide which
themes appeal to you and best fit the stories you
want to tell.

CHAPTER | | WHAT IS EBERRON?

--- PAGE 6 ---

6

A Macicat Wort

The creation myths say that magic 1s the
blood of the dragon Siberys, flowing down
from the golden ring in the sky. Whether this
is truth or mere myth, magic pervades the
world.

Magic as a Tool. In Eberron, arcane
magic is a form of science. The spells and
rituals of wizards and artificers have been
developed and honed over centuries, and
those principles have been incorporated into
daily life. Magic is used for entertainment,
transportation, communication, warfare, and
much more. While magic is widespread, there
are limits to is power. You can book passage
on an airship or get an illness cured by lesser
restoration, but resurrection, teleportation, and
similar effects are hard to come by. True wizards
are rare and remarkable; most common magic
is performed by a working class of magewrights,
professional spellcasters who master a small
handful of rituals or cantrips. The magical
services available in Khorvaire are discussed
in more detail in chapter 2, along with the
availability of magic items.

Dragonmarked Dynasties. The magical
economy is dominated by a handful of powerful
families and the guilds they maintain. These are
the dragonmarked houses, barons of industry
whose influence rivals that of kings and queens.
These dynastic houses derive their power
from their dragonmarks: arcane sigils that
are passed down through their bloodlines. A
dragonmark grants limited but useful magical
abilities, and over the course of centuries the
houses have used these powers to establish
powerful monopolies. House Jorasco dominates
the medical trade with its Mark of Healing,
while only someone with House Lyrandar’s
Mark of Storms can pilot an airship. Chapter 3
provides more details about dragonmarks and
the dragonmarked houses, along with rules for
creating dragonmarked characters.

CHAPTER | | AMAGICAL WORLD
EVERYDAY MAGIC

Here are a few examples of how magic is
integrated into everyday life in Khorvaire.
The lightning rail uses bound elementals
to drive a train of carriages along a path of
conductor stones. The rail links most major
cities and is a simple way to travel long
distances.
An elemental airship uses a fire or air
elemental, bound into a ring that holds
the ship aloft and provides motive force.
The airship is a recent innovation that is
transforming the business of transportation.
Everbright lanterns use continual flame
to light the streets of Khorvaire. The flame
never goes out, but metal shutters allow a
lantern to be dimmed or shut down.
Speaking stones allow communication
between distant communities. A short
message can be sent from one stone to
another, functionally similar to a telegraph.
Warforged are sentient humanoid
golems. Developed during the Last War,
warforged were created as weapons. The
Treaty of Thronehold forbid the creation of
new warforged, while granting freedom to
the golems that survived the war. Rules for
making warforged characters can be found in
chapter 3.

--- PAGE 7 ---

Pup ADVENTURE

Eberron is a world of swashbuckling adventure
and two-fisted action. Whether you’re a DM
developing an adventure in the world or a
player preparing to explore it, here are a few
things to consider.

Exotic Locations. Lightning rails, airships,
and other forms of transportation can facilitate
travel to exotic locations. Adventures could
take you to the colossal ruins left behind by the
giants of Xen’drik, the warped landscape of the
Mournland, or the dark demiplanes within the
underworld of Khyber. Even if you prefer to stay
in a town, you could find yourself in the mile-
high towers of Sharn... or the ancient goblin
tunnels that lie beneath it.

What Are the Stakes? What’s better than
a battle on the deck of an airship? A battle on
the deck of an airship that’s about to crash. Look
for ways to raise the stakes of a scene, so players
feel that every decision matters. This could be
driven by the consequences of failure: through
your actions, you’re protecting your friends, your
house, or your nation. It could be about time: The
alarm’s been triggered, and you only have six rounds before
security arrives. Such things can even be incidental.
Did you start a fight in an alley behind a bar?
Now you notice the drunk ogre sleeping in the corner... uf
he wakes up, this could get ugly.

Player Characters Are Remarkable.
Eberron is a world in need of heroes. Lingering
tensions of war remain. From the fanatics of
the Emerald Claw and the mad cults of the
Dragon Below to the flesh-warping daelkyr
and ancient archfiends, Eberron faces many
threats... and there’s no one out there to stop
them. In Eberron, the gods are distant and
don’t directly intervene. The Silver Flame is a
divine force of light, but it can only act through
mortal champions. The few powerful benevolent
NPGs have limitations: the Keeper of the Flame
loses her powers if she leaves her citadel. The
mighty great druid is... well... a tree. Most of
the powerful people in the setting are driven by
selfish goals. If the Tarrasque comes to Sharn,

--- PAGE 8 ---

8

there’s no one else to deal with the problem: the
fate of the city is in your hands.

This is something to consider in developing
your character and choosing your background.
If you take the soldier background, you can be
more than just a grunt. What did you do during
the Last War? What was your greatest triumph
or most tragic defeat? If you’re a spy, are you a
prized agent or did you break loose from your
organization after they pushed you too far? Don’t
just think of your character as a set of numbers:
even at Ist level, you’re remarkable.

Hero Points. The heroes of pulp adventure
are often able to overcome seemingly impossible
odds. One way to reflect this is to use the
optional hero points rule from chapter 9 of the
Dungeon Master’s Guide. This is optional; hero points
change the balance of the game and give player
characters an opportunity to turn certain failure
into success. It’s a way to make heroes feel
largely than life, but it’s not a good match for
every story.

Remarkable Villains. One reason the world
needs heroes is because it already has villains. It
may be a long time before you’re ready to face
the archlich Erandis Vol in battle. But part of
the flavor of pulp adventure is to have recurring
villains who are closely matched with the
heroes—rivals who advance in power as you do.
One way to create a compelling villain is for the
DM and players develop the villain’s backstory
together. As a DM, you might ask a player: When
you fought in the Last War, Halas Martain served in your
unit... until he betrayed you. What did he do, exactly?
Likewise, even when a pulp villain appears to
die, they can have their own remarkable escapes
from death. Perhaps Halas had a ring that cast
an illusion of his death while actually stabilizing
him, or cast feather fall when he leapt from that
tower in Sharn. Here as well, as a DM you could
engage the players: It’s Halas Martain, all right.
How do you think he surowed your last encounter?

This isn’t something every group will enjoy,
and you never want players to feel as though they
can’t succeed. But for some groups, this sort of
collaboration can produce a compelling story and
a sense of investment in the world.

CHAPTER 1 | PULP ADVENTURE
OPTIONAL RULE:

ENVIRONMENTAL ELEMENTS

A fight breaks out in The Cat & Biscuit. The
gnome rogue leaps from the landing and swings
across the room, passing over the heads of the
surprised thugs to land in the perfect position
Jor a sneak attack. The shifter barbarian strikes
a mighty blow that knocks her enemy into the
blazing hearth; the bandit shneks as the flames
spread to has clothes.

Combat can feel very mechanical. | move 10
feet. | make an attack roll. |use a reaction. One
way for the DM to encourage more cinematic
action is to present a list of Environmental
Elements. In a tavern, this list could include
Chandelier, Plate Glass Window, Roaring
Fireplace, Tray of Drinks, Drunk Patron. If
you’re fighting in an ancient tomb the list could
be Pile of Gold Coins, Scattered Bones,
Rotting Tapestry, Moss-Covered Statue.
Each turn, a player can work one of these
elements into their description of their action.
The primary purpose of this is to give players
ideas; interesting details to use while describing
their actions. But if a player comes up with a
particularly clever way to use an element, the
DM could grant advantage on a check or attack
roll, or some other benefit. The rogue needs to
cross a room full of enemies and wants to swing
on the chandelier? As the DM, I’d let them
make a simple Dexterity (Acrobatics) check to
avoid opportunity attacks, essentially getting a
free Disengage action.

Environmental elements are always
optional and largely cosmetic. As a DM, you
don’t have to grant a bonus for every use of an
element. But presenting a list can help players
think of the location as more than just squares
on amap and challenge them to add more
cinematic flair to their actions.

--- PAGE 9 ---

Neo-Noir INTRIGUE

While Eberron embraces the swashbuckling
action of pulp adventure, it also draws inspiration
from neo-no1r and hardboiled fiction. It’s a
world where stories don’t always end well, where
there isn’t a perfect solution for every problem.
In developing characters or stories in Eberron,
consider the following concepts.

Shades of Gray. In Eberron, it’s not always
easy to separate the heroes from the villains.
Good people can do terrible things, while cruel
or heartless people may be serving the greater
good. An inquisitor may torture
innocents in a quest to root out a cult
of the Dragon Below; but if she’s
stopped, the cult will survive and
flourish. A group of orcs are raiding
a human settlement; but the settlers
have built their village on land sacred to the >
orcs and may be disrupting wards that hold C
evil at bay. The heroes find a powerful magic
weapon in an ancient tomb; but this artifact is
the sword of an ancient hobgoblin general, and
his descendants want it back. There are ways to
resolve these problems, but the answers aren’t
always simple or obvious.

There can certainly be times when decisions
are straightforward. If the Emerald Claw is about
to detonate a necrotic resonator that will kill half
of Sharn, they need to be stopped. But a good
Eberron story challenges you to think about your
actions, and the simplest solution may not be the
best one.

Human Motives. Not every conflict is a
fight between light and darkness. In Eberron, the
vast majority of people are driven by simple
motives: Greed. Fear. Pride. Ambition. One
person just wants to get some gold in their
pocket. Another wants to impress their
paramour. A leader forcing the Five
Nations into war is driven both
by fear of their neighbors and the
sincere belief that Khorvaire would
be better off under their rule.
There are ancient and primordial forces at
work in Eberron. But there are also misguided
patriots, religious extremists, and dragonmarked
houses looking to wring a few more pieces of
gold out of Khorvaire. There are spies who
will do anything to protect their nations and
petty criminals trying to build empires. There’s
a place in Eberron for selfless heroes and truly
vile villains, but there’s a lot of middle ground in
between.

CHAPTER 1 | NEO-NOIR INTRIGUE 9

--- PAGE 10 ---

REGRETS TABLE
1d10 Regret

1 While you were serving in the Last
War, you were forced to abandon
an injured comrade. You don’t know
if they survived.

2 You placed your faith and your
fortune in the hands of a lover who
betrayed you. You don’t know if you
can ever trust anyone again.

3 You murdered a rival. Your actions
may have been justified, but your
rival’s face still haunts you.

4 Someone put their trust in you and
you betrayed them for personal
gain. You may regret it now, but
you can never repair the damage
you’ve done.

5 You squandered your family’s
fortune and brought shame and
ruin to your household.

6 You engaged in covert operations
for a nation (either as a spy or
soldier). While you were serving
your country, you did unforgivable
things.

7 You abandoned your family to
pursue a life of adventure. Your
village was destroyed in the war and
you don’t know if they survived.

8 You made a bargain with an
extraplanar entity that you now
regret.

9 You made a promise to a child or a

lover that you failed to keep.

10 You volunteered for mystical
experiments. These may be
responsible for your class abilities
(sorcerer spellcasting, barbarian
rage), but you don’t know if there
will be side effects.

10 CHAPTER 1 | NEO-NOIR INTRIGUE
Everyone Has Regrets. Player characters
are remarkable people, but that doesn’t mean
they’re perfect. 5E already encourages you to
pick a flaw for your character, something that
helps define your motivations. But if you want to
add a little hard-boiled flavor to your character,
you might consider a few additional aspects: Do
you have a debt you need to repay and, if so, do
you need to resolve this in a week or in a year?
Did you make a tragic mistake, and if so, is it
something you can ever undo? The Regrets table
provides a few examples of missteps that might
haunt you.

The Balance of Pulp and Noir. As a
setting, Eberron works with both pulp and noir
themes. This is a spectrum: on one end you have
over-the-top swashbuckling adventure—battling
incarnations of evil on the deck of a burning
airship! On the other end you have gritty hard-
boiled action in the alleys of Sharn, a brutally
human scenario where there’s no easy choices.
The most interesting path often lies between the
two extremes, but don’t be afraid to focus on one
end of the spectrum if that’s what suits your story.

--- PAGE 11 ---

Way Do You Neep
200 Gop Pieces?

A flaw or regret is something that shapes your
personality, something that plays an ongoing role
in your story. But perhaps you have a problem
that needs to be resolved right now.

This is entirely optional: As a player, you
could choose to roll or select an option from the
Debts table.

Why would you possibly want to take on a
debt? It’s a way to add depth to your character
and to provide a compelling, immediate motive
for adventuring—yourre not just out to get rich,
you need gold to get that bounty off your head.
It’s also an opportunity to establish something
that can be part of your character moving
forward. If you’re trying to reclaim a magic item
from a pawn shop, it lets you establish that your
character fas that magic item—which could be
an heirloom, something you created, a gift from a
mentor—you’ve just temporarily lost it. If you’re
trying to raise money to join a secret society,
it establishes that your membership in this
organization may be a part of the story later on.

Establishing a debt requires collaboration and
approval by both player and DM. Work together
to develop the details: who 1s blackmailing you?
What’s this secret society? What’s the story
behind the magic item you’ve pawned, and what
sort of item is it? As a player, you present ideas
but the DM has final approval.
DEBTS TABLE

1d10
1

10

Debt

You committed a crime during the
Last War, and now you're being
blackmailed by someone who has
proof. Your actions may have been
justified, but the law won’t care.
You've got a gambling problem. If you
can’t repay Daask (see chapter 6),
you’re going to be playing tag with a
cockatrice.

You own an uncommon magic item,
but you had to sell it to a pawn shop.
If you can’t reclaim it within the
month, they’Il sell it off.

You were making a delivery on behalf
of the Boromar Clan (see chapter 6)
and you lost the merchandise.
Someone knows the whereabouts of
a sibling or loved one you thought lost
in the Mourning, but that information
is going to cost you.

You have a degenerative disease that
can’t be cured by mundane means.

If you can’t get a /esser restoration
soon, you’re going to start showing
symptoms.

Your family lost everything in the Last
War. 200 gp would get them a stake in
a new (farm/inn/stagecoach).

You’ve got a price on your head.

Until you settle things with House
Tharashk, you’d better keep an eye
out for bounty hunters.

You’ve got an opportunity to join an
influential secret society. But you’ve
only got one month to raise the
membership dues.

Roll again. It’s not your debt: it’s
you’re lover’s problem. Can you solve
the problem before they have to face
the consequences?

CHAPTER 1 | NEO-NOIR INTRIGUE

11

--- PAGE 12 ---

Tue Last War

For hundreds of years the continent of Khorvaire
was united under the Kingdom of Galifar. This
came to an end with the death of King Jarot in
894 YK, just over a century ago. Conflict over
the succession spiraled into outright war between
the Five Nations.

The Last War was a bitter struggle that forever
changed the shape of Khorvaire. It was a
century marked by shifting alliances, with years
of stalemate interspersed with periods of intense
conflict. This grueling conflict left deep scars on
the land and the people, but there was worse
to come. On Olarune 20, 994 YK the nation
of Gyre was consumed in a magical cataclysm
now known as the Mourning. The cause of the
Mourning remains unknown, and many fear that
it was a consequence of the extensive use of war
magic. Shock and fear brought the nations to the
negotiating table, and the Last War came to an
end in 996 YK with the Treaty of Thronehold.
While many celebrated the end of the war,
others remain unsatisfied with its outcome.
No one won the war, and deep scars remain.
War-torn villages and towns are still rebuilding.
Once fertile farmlands are scorched and ruined.
There are refugees in every major city. And
even though people optimistically refer to it as
the Last War, most believe that it’s only a matter
of time until it begins anew. The mystery of
the Mourning is the only thing holding the
warmongers at bay. If the secret of the Mourning
can be uncovered—‘f it can be proven that the
Mourning couldn’t happen again, or if its power
could be harnessed as a weapon—the Last War
could begin again. As such, the nations remain in
a cold war as each makes preparations and seeks
advantages in the conflict that could lie ahead.

--- PAGE 13 ---

EFFECTS OF THE WAR

Here’s a few of the major effects of the Last
War.

Dragonmarked Power. The dragonmarked
houses sold their services to all sides and
made considerable profits from the war. The
Five Nations are divided and dependent
on the services of the houses, and it’s
questionable if any one nation can impose its
will upon them.

Karrnathi Undead. When a series of
famines and plagues crippled the nation of
Karrnath, it embraced the Blood of Vol and
introduced undead into its armies. The religion
was largely abandoned towards the end of the
war and many of the undead were confined to
crypts, but some are still in use.

Magical Innovation. Over the course of a
century of war, the nations and dragonmarked
houses developed new spells and tools for use
in the war. Airships and warforged are recent
developments, and the wandslinger tradition
emerged from the war.

The Mourning. This magical cataclysm
destroyed Cyre and brought the war to an end.
Cyre is a vast, unrecoverable wasteland and
those Cyrans who survived the disaster are
scattered across Khorvaire.

New Nations. Before the Last War, Galifar
laid claim to all of Khorvaire. A host of new
states emerged over the course of the war.
These include the goblin nation of Darguun,
the elf kingdom of Valenar, the druids of the
Eldeen Reaches, the monsters of Droaam,
and more.

MILITARY BACKGROUNDS

The current year is 998 YK. The Last War lasted
for over a century and only came to an end two
years ago. As a player character in Eberron, you
possess remarkable skills. Did you take part in
the Last War, and if so, in what capacity? If you
fought, which nation did you serve? Were you
honorably discharged, or did you abandon your
cause? If you didn’t take part in the war, why
didn’t you fight and what did you do instead?

The following table provides ideas about how
a background could reflect a connection to the
Last War. Feel free to change the suggested
backgrounds. While charlatan is an obvious
background for a spy, you could easily adapt
criminal or urchin to the same role.

MILITARY BACKGROUNDS
1d10 Military Background

1

10

You were a common soldier, facing

the enemy on the front lines of the
interminable war. (Soldier)

You served onthe open seas, whether
as a marine, a naval officer, a privateer
or a smuggler. (Sailor)

You commanded troops and led soldiers
into battle. Were you a good leader,

or are you haunted by your failures?
(Soldier or noble)

You were a spy, gathering intelligence
for your nation. Are you out of the
business, or could you still be called
back in? (Charlatan)

You were tasked with maintaining
morale and raising the spirits of your
soldiers. (Entertainer)

You provided spiritual support to your
troops. Were you always devout, or did
you find your faith on the battlefield?
(Acolyte)

You used your remarkable knowledge as
part of a military think tank... or perhaps
you provided arcane support on the
battlefield. (Sage)

You were a smuggler or a profiteer,
taking advantage of the war to line your
pockets. (Criminal or charlatan)

You opposed the war. The actions you
took to protect the innocent have made
you a local legend. (Folk hero)

You used the connections of your
influential family to avoid military
service. Are you haunted by this, or do
you remain indifferent? (Noble)

CHAPTER | | THE LAST WAR

13

--- PAGE 14 ---

14

THE MOournING

The nation of Cyre was once the heart of the
united kingdom of Galifar. The Last War took

a heavy toll on Cyre and its citizens, serving as
the battleground where all of the Five Nations
crossed swords. But no one was prepared for the
disaster that struck in 994 YK.

Accounts of the Mourning vary. Some say that
a blinding light engulfed the battlefield near the
Saerun Road. Others say that the dead-gray
musts began in the capital city of Metrol and
spread out from there. What is known for certain
is that within the space of one day the nation
of Cyre had been engulfed in a wall of mist,
and that anything caught within the mists was
horrifically transformed. Over a million Cyrans
were killed on the day of Mourning. Those who
survived were the soldiers fighting in enemy
territory, those living on the borders who were
able to flee from the advancing mists, those few
who were able to escape the interior through
magical means. On Olarune 20, 994 YK, the
nation of Cyre ceased to exist.

The Mourning threw Khorvaire into a state
of shock. Who could unleash such power? Was
this a weapon, and if so, when would those
responsible issues their demands? Were its
borders stable, or could they expand at any
moment? What was to be done with the Cyran
refugees surging into every adjacent nation?

Fear of the Mourning brought the Five Nations
to the negotiating table, and in 996 YK the
Treaty of Thronehold ended the Last War. But
all of those questions remain unanswered. No
one knows the cause of the Mourning or whether
it could suddenly expand anew. Breland opened
its borders to refugees, and Prince Oargev serves
as de facto ruler in the territory now called New
Cyre. Despite its grand name, New Cyre is little
more than a vast refugee camp. Other refugees
are scattered across Khorvaire; some are treated
with pity, others with suspicion or anger. And
fear of the Mourning hangs like a shadow across
Khorvaire. Could it happen again? Is this how the
world ends?

CHAPTER 1 | THE MOURNING
THE MOuRNLAND

A wall of dead-grey mist surrounds the remnants
of Cyre. Beyond the mists lies a land twisted

by magic, a wound that will not heal. The land

is blasted and strangely transformed. In some
places the ground has fused into jagged glass. In
others, it is cracked and burned. Broken bodies of
soldiers from various sides litter the landscape—
soldiers whose dead bodies refuse to decompose.
The Mournland is a vast open grave.

In the Mournland, the wounds of war never
heal, vile magical effects linger, and monsters
mutate into even more foul and horrible
creatures. Arcane effects continue to rain upon
the land, magical storms that never dissipate.
Stories speak of living spells—war magic that has
taken physical form, sentient fireballs and vile
cloudkills that endlessly search for new victims.
Angry ghosts continue to fight their final battles.
The only thing that’s predictable about the
Mournland is that nothing is predictable; any
sort of monster or horror could be found within
its borders. And yet, it also holds the wealth
and treasures of an entire nation, along with
the secrets of House Cannith and everything
else that was left behind. It’s dangerous. It’s
mysterious. But it’s also a dungeon the size of
a nation, with opportunities for those brave
enough to enter the mists.

Tue Mourninc and You

The Mourning transformed Khorvaire. Shock
and fear brought an end to the Last War. In
making an Eberron character, think about the
impact it had on you. If you’re from Cyre, what
did you lose in the Mourning? Family? Friends?
Are there heirlooms or treasures lost in the mists
that you’re determined to regain, or loved ones
you hope to someday see again? Do you feel
loyalty to your nation and hope to see it restored,
or have you burned Cyre out of your heart?
Even if you’re not from Cyre, the Mourning
may have had a profound impact on you. Are
you afraid that the Mourning could expand,
or do you prefer not to dwell on such things?

--- PAGE 15 ---

If you’re religious, did the shocking tragedy of
the Mourning cause you to question your faith,
or did it reinforce it? If you’re an artificer or a
wizard, are you interested in studying its effects
more closely... might you even hope to unravel
its mysteries yourself? Do you see it solely as a
tragedy, or do you hope that this awesome power
could somehow be harnessed and controlled?

Beyond this, player characters are remarkable

people. Perhaps you were caught in the
Mourning and survived the experience... but its
effects remain with you. Consider these ideas.

¢ Asa barbarian you could have been a
simple peasant caught in the Mourning.
Everyone else in your community was killed,
but their spirits were bound to you. Your
barbarian rage represents you channeling
these vengeful ghosts. Is there a way to lay
these spirits to rest? Do they have unfinished
business they want you to resolve?

e Asasorcerer your arcane powers could be
the result of your exposure to the Mourning.
Were you physically transformed as well,
or are your powers the only manifestation
_

of the Mourning? Are you comfortable
using your abilities, or are you afraid that
you may be increasing the power of the
Mourning with each spell you cast?

As a warlock your patron could be
interested in the Mourning and drive you
to learn more about it. Your patron could
even be part of the Mourning—whether

a collective of spirits killed on the Day of
Mourning, or even a dark and enigmatic
power that might have been responsible for
this tragedy. If you take the latter approach,
do you feel that by using your warlock
powers you are serving the Mourning?

Or could it be that you’re siphoning your
powers from it and believe that you are
actually weakening it with your actions?

As a member ofan unusual race, you could
say that you are actually a creation of the
Mourning. Perhaps your tortle was an actual
turtle transformed on the day of Mourning.
Or maybe your tiefling is touched by the
dark power of the Mourning instead of by
an infernal power.

CHAPTER 1| | THE MOURNING 15

--- PAGE 16 ---

Wuat Causep THE Mourninc?

There will never be an official answer to the

cause of the Mourning. As a DM in Eberron, we

want _you to decide the cause of this tragedy...

or if you prefer, to leave it as a mystery that

will never be solved. With that said, people in

Eberron itself have many theories about the

cause of the Mourning; it’s up to you to decide if

any of them are correct.

¢ The Mourning was the result of a century

of extensive use of war magic. If the nations
continue to use these magics, the Mourning

will expand.

¢ The dragonmarked House Cannith made
a fortune selling magical weapons to all
sides during the Last War. The Mourning
was the result of research gone horribly
awry. The secrets can be found in a
Cannith research facility within the
Mournland. If this knowledge could =

be recovered and refined, it could =
produce a terrifying weapon. -——

16 CHAPTER 1 | THE MOURNING
¢ The Mourning was triggered by the release
of an ancient demon overlord trapped
since the dawn of time. This mighty fiend is
lurking in the Mournland and building its
power, but soon it will be ready to act.

As a DM, the question you need to ask is
whether you want the mystery of the Mourning
to be solved, and what the consequences would
be. Right now, fear of the Mourning holds war
at bay. If it’s confirmed that the Mourning is no
longer a threat—or if one nation manages to
harness its power—the war could begin again.

--- PAGE 17 ---

ANcieNT MYSTERIES

Our world was born in strife. The three
Progenitor Dragons crafted the planes at the dawn
of time, and rested in the space that hes between
them. It was then that cruel Khyber turned on

the others, killing noble Stberys and scattering the
preces of his body. Eberron fought Khyber, but
couldn’t defeat the dark wyrm. And so Eberron
wound Khyber in her coils and transformed,
becoming a lwing prison that could
Sorever hold the darkness within. And
this 1s the foundation of our reality.
Eberron is the Dragon Between, the
world on which we stand. Khyber

as the Dragon Below, source of demons
and foul things. And the ring around our
world 1s the broken body of Siberys,
the Dragon Above, whose blood ts the
source of all magic.

This cosmic struggle was merely the
Just of many wars that shaped our
world. The fiendish children of Khyber
spilled out from the underworld and
spread chaos across the land. We
know little of this teme, save that the
mighty dragons—the first children

of Eberron and Siberys—fought against

these demon overlords. In the end, an act of
sacrifice kindled the Silver Flame that binds these
demons to this day. But they hunger to escape
Jrom their bonds and wreak havoc, and we must
always be vigilant.

Civilizations rose and fell. The giants of Xen*dnik
worked great magics, even destroying one of

the moons. This rash action led the recluswe
dragons to utterly destroy the giant nations, and
the continent of Xen’drik remains ravaged by the
epic spells unleashed in this battle. In Khorvaire,
the emprre of the goblins was brought down by a
conflict with the vile daelkyr. These flesh-warping
lords of madness were eventually trapped in
Khyber by wise orcish druids, but ruins are all
that remain of that great empire.

CHAPTER 1 | ANCIENT MYSTERIES

17

--- PAGE 18 ---

18

Modern civilization is built on the bones of the
past, and these ancient mysteries may have a
dreadful impact on the future. Many of the
modern cities of Khorvaire are built on the
foundations of ancient goblin cities and fortresses,
and these may still hold aberrant threats from
the war that destroyed their civilization. Older
still are the ruins once inhabited by rakshasa
and other fiends, and these may hold artifacts
and other treasures far beyond the capabilities
of any modern artificer. But there is more to the
past than treasures waiting to be found. Stories
say that demons and dragons are fighting a long,
cold war in the shadows. These tales speak of

a Draconic Prophecy... hidden revelations
that grant the power to shape the future. Hidden
dragons, undead elves, immortal fiends; all

may be fighting to determine the path of the
Prophecy, and player characters may be pawns
in this great game. As one of the heroes of the
age, you surely have a role in the Draconic
Prophecy. Will you be a tool of one of these
ancient forces, or will you master the game and
determine your own destiny?

Dark Forces

Dragons and demons are just a few of the
dangerous forces at work in the world. The
daelkyr came to Eberron from the Plane

of Madness. They came with armies of
aberrations—forces commanded by mind flayers
and bolstered by beholders. They shattered
civilizations and spread horrors across Khorvaire.
The daelkyr were ultimately bound in Khyber
by druidic magic. They linger in the darkness—
the Lord of Eyes, the Prince of Sime, Dyrrn

the Corruptor—creating new aberrations and
waiting for the day they can unleash their full
power on the world above.

While the daelkyr themselves can’t return to
the surface, their minions can. This leads to the
Cults of the Dragon Below, mad mortals who
work with mind flayers and lesser aberrations.

CHAPTER | | IF IT EXISTS IN D&D, THERE’S A PLACE F¢
A cult of the Dragon Below can spring up
anywhere, as a seed of madness takes root in a
community or court ... and spreads.

As if dragons and demons aren’t trouble
enough, stories say there are fiends lurking in
mortal dreams. According to these tales, the
Dreaming Dark is an alliance of nightmare
spirits from the plane of Dal Quor, fiends that
feed on mortal fear and manipulate through
dreams. Some stories say the Dreaming Dark can
possess people through their dreams, while others
claim they have psychic agents hidden across
Khorvaire.

Beyond the enigmatic daelkyr and the
Dreaming Dark, other threats have arisen in
the past century, spinning out of the strife of the
Last War. The Lord of Blades is a warforged
insurgent, a deadly warrior and artificer who
seeks vengeance against the humans who
created his people as weapons for their war. The
Aurum is a cabal drawn from the wealthy elite
who seek to turn gold into greater power. The
Emerald Claw was an elite military unit that
served Karrnath during the Last War. Disavowed
by their king, the Emerald Claw engages in
guerrilla strikes across Khorvaire, and includes
necromancers, vampires, and undead bound to
their service. Some say the Emerald Claw serve
an ancient lich known as the Queen of Death,
that their true goal is to place her on the throne
of Karrnath and the Five Nations.

These are just some of the dark forces working
in the shadows of Eberron. There are hungry
lycanthropes, clever doppelgangers, and cults
devoted to the Dark Six. There are stories of a
cabal of assassins with aberrant dragonmarks
and elves twisted into creatures of nightmare.
And that’s not to mention the mundane crime
and corruption that can be found in any major
city. It’s a dangerous world—hopefully you can
handle it!

IR IT IN EBERRON

--- PAGE 19 ---

IF It Exists In D&D,
Tuere’s A PLace For IT In
EBERRON

.. But It May Not Be the Place You’re Used To.

Eberron draws on the core elements of D&D.
It’s a world of wizards and rogues, a setting

with halflings and dwarves and elves. Want an
otyugh? Orcs? Goblins? Paladins? They’re all
there. Eberron draws on the same basic elements
as other settings, but it often diverges from the
traditional archetypes assigned to those things. A
few factors here:

No fixed alignments. Mortal creatures
are shaped by their culture and personal
circumstances. An orc is just as likely to be lawful
good as chaotic evil, depending on their personal
history. A gold dragon, a beholder, a halfling;
you can’t make automatic assumptions about
any of them. In part this is because of Eberron’s
distant gods. Orcs aren’t driven by Gruumsh’s
fury, and the gnolls aren’t tied to Yeenoghu.

The exceptions to this rule are creatures whose
identities are shaped by magic. Fiends and
celestials embody pure ideals of good and evil;
lycanthropes are driven by a curse.

Monsters aren’t always villains, and
the villains aren’t always monsters. Many
of the gnolls of Droaam are more honorable
than the human mercenaries of House Deneith.
In Karrnath and Aerenal, undead are used as
tools. You certainly could find yourself fighting a
merciless minotaur in the slums of Sharn... but
you're just as likely to cross swords with a cruel
halfling cutthroat.

There’s a place for everything in
Eberron... but it may not be a prominent
place. Kenku aren’t mentioned in any of the
canon sourcebooks of Eberron. There’s many
ways to add kenku into Eberron, but that doesn’t
mean that there needs to be a kenku nation
or that kenku have played a significant role

CHAPTER 1 | IF IT
in history; it may be that a dozen kenku were
thrown out of the Faerie Court of Thelanis and
these are all the kenku in the world. So just
because it’s possible to put anything you want in
the world, don’t assume that the streets of Sharn
are a zoo flooded with every character race that’s
ever been suggested.

Chapter 3 provides advice on adding new races
to Eberron. Here’s a few other ways that you
can add something into Eberron with minimal
impact on the setting.

¢ It comes from the vast and largely

unexplored continent of Xen’drik.

¢ Itwas created or caused by the
Mourning—the mystical cataclysm that
destroyed Cyre—and has only been around
for four years.

¢ It’s aproduct of the underworld of Khyber,
the source of many aberrations and
monsters.

¢ It’s the result of recent experiments by
one of the dragonmarked houses or a mad
artificer.

¢ It comes from one of the planes and slipped
into the world during a recent convergence.

Not everything has to exist in Eberron.
You can find a place in Eberron for anything.
But it’s also possible to say that something doesn’t
exist in Eberron. For example, if you wanted to
use Gruumsh in Eberron, you could re-imagine
him as one of the demon overlords of the first
age. You could decide that he’s the classic
Gruumsh, who has recently found his way to
Eberron from the core cosmology. But the DM
can always say “No, there is no version of Gruumsh in
my Eberron.”

This comes to a critical point. Nothing is set
in stone. Like every sourcebook that’s come
before it, this book is intended to be a source of
inspiration: use what inspires you, but always feel
empowered to change the world to better suit the
story you want to tell. There’s a place in Eberron
for everything in that exists in D&D... but it’s up
to you whether to make use of it.

EXISTS IN D&D, THERE’S A PLACE FOR IT IN EBERRON

19

--- PAGE 20 ---

20

EBERRON AND THE MULTIVERSE

Eberron has always been a part of the multiverse.
Eberron is surrounded by its thirteen planes.
These planes play an important role in the
setting, producing dramatic effects as they shift
in and out of alignment with Eberron. But the
Astral and Ethereal Planes surround and enfold
Eberron, and if someone ventures into the Deep
Ethereal it’s possible to pass beyond Eberron’s
closed system and step into the Great Wheel or
the World Tree.

As a DM, it’s up to you to decide whether such
travel is trivially easy or all but impossible... and
whether threats from other settings will make
their way into Eberron. Most people consider the
tale of the Progenitor Dragons to be a fable: a
myth to explain the underworld and the golden
ring in the sky. But what if it’s true? What if
three divine beings joined together to build
a new creation in the depths of the Ethereal?
Elves, orcs, dragons; all of these could have been
created in the image of the creatures of the Great
Wheel but given a chance to develop beyond
the reach of Lolth and Gruumsh. The Ring of
Siberys could in fact be a shield: a defense that has
hidden Eberron since it was first created.

If you’re not interested in connecting Eberron
to other settings, then that shield is still intact.

But if you do want to incorporate elements from
other realms, this shield is starting to fail. Perhaps
House Cannith will build a planar gateway and
accidentally bring the Blood War into Eberron.
Maybe Tiamat has only just discovered Eberron
and is slowly corrupting its dragons. Ultimately,
it’s up to you. You can avoid any contact between
Eberron and other settings. You can explore

the idea of that contact being recent and new
(perhaps linked to the Mourning, either as cause
or effect). Or you can choose to say that there
has always been travel between these realms,
adjusting things to incorporate these ideas.

If you choose to explore the idea that contact
between settings is recent and limited, consider
what that might mean for everyone involved. In
the Great Wheel Asmodeus is an ancient threat,
with well-established cults, lines of tieflings, and a

CHAPTER | | IF IT EXISTS IN D&D, THERE’S A PLACE F¢
great deal of lore to be discovered. If Asmodeus
has just discovered Eberron, the sages know
nothing about him. He has no power base to
work with and will have to recruit new followers.
And you might see unusual alliances forming
against him, as both celestial and fiend might
join forces to drive out the outsider. As with
everything else, Eberron provides an opportunity
to explore existing things in a new way.

FAMILIAR FACES, UNFAMILIAR ROLES

A few things to bear in mind as you step into
Eberron...

Dragons have a civilization humanity
knows almost nothing about. Shapeshifted
dragons may be secretly manipulating human
civilization.

Elves are split into two cultures. The
reclusive Aereni are gifted wizards ruled by
their undying ancestors. The Valenar elves
are ruthless warriors who strive to be avatars
of ancient heroes. Other elves live among
humanity and have adopted its customs.

Gnomes are schemers and scholars
who maintain order through intrigue and
assassination.

Goblins once had a mighty empire, and
a tradition based on honor and martial
discipline. Their civilization was crushed
by the daelkyr and their land was stolen by
humanity. They aren’t inherently evil, but they
have good reason to loathe the people of the
Five Nations.

Halflings can be found as merchants and
innkeepers, but in their homeland they’re
dinosaur-riding rangers and barbarians.

Ores are a proud and primal people. While
they’ve never built great cities, they were the
first druids of Eberron. Many continue these
ancient traditions and fight to protect Eberron
from aberrations... while others have fallen
prey to the madness of the daelkyr.

IR IT IN EBERRON

--- PAGE 21 ---

CHAPTER 2: WELCOME
TO KHORVAIRE

Just one century ago, Galifar was synonymous
with Khoroaire. This map showed one great
nation, harmonious and united. Perhaps that’s
overstating things. Humanity never crossed the
Graywall Mountains or explored the jungles

of the east. The Five Nations always had
cultural differences and those who yearned for
independence. But still, the map showed us at our
best: one nation, united in a common cause.

Now I look at the map and I don’t recognize

my world. Galifar has been shattered. The Five
Nations are irreparably severed. There are so
many new realms—kingdoms of elves and goblins,
even this so-called ‘nation of monsters.’ Can

it possibly last? And if not, will it be another

war that brings wt down, or will the Mourning
consume us all?

—Lyrian Das, Morgrave Historian

EN’DRIK IS A LAND OF RUINS AND

mysteries. The dragons of

Argonnessen have no love for

lesser creatures. The psychic

tyrants of Sarlona maintain strict
control over their borders and their people. So,
most player characters begin their adventures on
the continent of Khorvaire. While humans make
up the majority of the population in the civilized
nations of Khorvaire, the continent is home a
wide range of peoples and cultures. Once largely
unified under the Kingdom of Galifar, today
Khorvaire is split into many nations—some old,
others newborn from the crucible of war.

This chapter provides an overview of the
nations of Khorvaire, along with a glimpse of
common life, magic, religion, and the world—
and planes—that lie beyond it.

--- PAGE 22 ---

22

NATIONS OF EBERRON

This section provides an overview of the nations
of Khorvaire. The focus is on what you need to
know to create characters and NPCs from these
places. If you want more details on the culture,
history, and geography of the nations, you can
find additional resources in appendix A. As you go
forward, here’s a few useful things to bear in mind.

The Five Nations. Aundair, Breland, Cyre,
Karrnath and Thrane are collectively referred
to as the Five Nations. These nations formed the
heart of the Kingdom of Galifar, and while each
has a unique cultural identity they are built on
this shared foundation. Families are spread across
the Five Nations; the rulers of the Five Nations
are tied to the Wynarns, the royal bloodline of
Galifar. Despite their differences, an Aundairian
has more in common with a Thrane than they do
with a Zil gnome or a Lhazaar pirate.

Aside from Cyre—which was destroyed in the
Last War—the Five Nations remain the largest
and most powerful countries in Khorvaire.

CHAPTER 2 | NATIONS OF EBERRON
The Treaty of Thronehold officially ended
the Last War. The treaty recognized the following
nations as sovereign states: Aundair, Breland,
Darguun, the Eldeen Reaches, Karrnath, the
Lhazaar Principalities, the Mror Holds, Q’barra,
the Talenta Plains, Thrane, Valenar, and Zilargo.
These nations abide by a common set of laws
and maintain diplomatic relations. The Demon
Wastes and Shadow Marches are regions that
have no unified government, while Droaam has
declared itself to be a nation but has yet to be
recognized by the others.

Getting Around. The Five Nations are
connected by an excellent system of roads, and
travelers can always make their way by horse
or coach. Major cities are tied together by the
lightning rail of House Orien, which allows you
to avoid the perils—and tedium—of the roads.

If speed is an issue, you can book passage on a
Lyrandar airship. This is the fastest way to travel,
but also the most expensive. Refer to the “Magic
in Khorvaire” section for more travel options.

--- PAGE 23 ---

AUNDAIR

Capital: Fairhaven
Noted for Arcane magic, cheese, education,
fashion, grains, wine

Aundarr is a realm of grand cities surrounded
by fertile farmlands. Its legendary founder was
devoted to the acquisition of knowledge and
the study of magic, and the floating towers

of Arcanix are the finest institute for mystical
study in Khorvaire. Magic is a part of daily life
throughout the Five Nations, but it is especially
common in Aundair; the nation produces more
magewrights and wandslingers than any other.

From the nobles in the towers of Fairhaven to
the common folk working the vast vineyards of
Bluevine, Aundairians value wit and wisdom.
Aundairians prefer finesse to brute force and
appreciate cunning wordplay and fine fashions.
The Sovereign Host is the dominant faith of
Aundarr, with a particular devotion to Aureon.
However, the Silver Flame also has a deeply
devoted following—some might say overzealous
or extreme.

Aundarr is ruled by Queen Aurala ir;Wynarn.
Aurala is a just ruler, but she has never
abandoned the dream of a Galifar reunited
under her rule. While Aundair is a small nation,
its arcane superiority allowed it to hold its own
during the Last War. Many believe Aurala
is pressing Arcanix to develop battle magic
that will ensure Aundair’s victory in whatever
conflicts le ahead.

INTERESTING THINGS ABouT AUNDAIR

¢ The floating towers of Arcanix are a center
for mystical research. Bear in mind that
many of its sages specialize in ritual magic
and abstract theory; it’s not filled with high
level wizards.

e Arcane magic is tied into many aspects
of Aundairian life—more so than other
nations. There’s a cleansing stone in
every village, and you might encounter
animated farming equipment in the fields.
The Knights Arcane are an clite unit
of eldritch knights, and the Royal Eyes
of Aundair are spies that specialize in
divination magic.

¢ House Lyrandar is based on the island
of Stormhome, and House Orien has
its ancestral seat in the city of Passage.
Aundair is also home to Baron Jorlanna
d’Cannith of the House of Making.

¢ Some Aundairian nobles are bound by
arcane pacts handed down through the
generations. Only remarkable heirs—
such as player characters—develop the
full powers of a warlock. Most such lines
are tied to archfey, but you could explore
other paths.

AUNDAIRIAN CHARACTERS

Regardless of your Intelligence score, if you’re an
Aundairian you’re sure you’re the smartest person
in the room. Consider the following things.

Arcane Talent. If you’re not going to play
a magical class, consider being a high elf or a
variant human with the Magic Initiate feat.
Whether you learn offensive cantrips and fight
as a wandslinger or pick up a few practical
tools (prestidigitation, mending, mage hand, every
Aundairian should know a little magic.

Magic Beats Mundane. Why use your hand
when you could use mage hand? Who still uses a
bow when you could use a wand? “Sovereigns above,
Wylhs. We're days away from the Eleventh Century and

you're still shooting people with pointed stacks?”

Show Some Style. Don’t settle for common
clothes and a squalid meal when you could wear
fine glamerweave and drink the best wine. If you’re
a fighter, focus on finesse and Dexterity instead
of crude strength. And never miss an opportunity
for a clever quip.

CHAPTER 2 | AUNDAIR 23

--- PAGE 24 ---

BRELAND

Capital: Wroat

Noted for Industry, manufactured goods,
metalwork, processed ore; organized crime,
subterfuge

Tn the wake of the Last War, Breland is one
of the most powerful nations in Khorvaire.
Possessing a large population and abundant
resources, Breland leads the Five Nations in
industry.

The Brelish are known for their pragmatism
and independence. They lack the discipline of
Karrns or the faith of the Thranes, but they
excel at finding new and innovative solutions
to problems. The Brelish also have a talent
for intrigue and subterfuge. The King’s Dark
Lanterns are one of the finest intelligence
agencies in Khorvaire, rivaled only by House
Phiarlan and the Trust of Zilargo. The dark side
of all of these things is a strong streak of cynicism,
which allows crime and corruption to flourish
in Brelish cities and churches. The Sovereign
Host is the dominant religion of Breland, but
in general the Brelish aren’t as devout as their
cousins in other nations.

King Boranel ir’;Wynarn of Breland rules in
conjunction with an elected parliament. Boranel
is a popular leader celebrated for his exploits
during the Last War. But his children have yet
to prove themselves, and there is a growing
movement that advocates abandoning royal rule
when Boranel passes.

INTERESTING THINGS ApouT BRELAND

¢ The great city of Sham is the largest
metropolis in Khorvaire. The City of
Towers is almost a nation in its own right
and is a hub for commerce and intrigue.
Chapter 6 provides more information on
Sharn.

¢ The Boromar Clan is the oldest and most
powerful criminal organization in Breland.

24 CHAPTER 2 | BRELAND
The Boromar leadership are halflings with
ties to the Talenta Plains. Other notable
criminal organizations include the monsters
of Daask and House Tarkanan, an alliance
of assassins and thieves with aberrant
dragonmarks.

¢ Breland’s major cities are especially
cosmopolitan. Due to its proximity to
Droaam, its cities include more monsters—
ogres, orcs, goblins, and even sahuagin,
harpies, and gargoyles—then are seen
elsewhere in the Five Nations.

¢ Breland has accepted more Cyran refugees
than any other nation. The largest refugee
camp, New Cyre, has a population of over
four thousand and is being converted into
a town. Prince Oargev of Cyre considers
himself a king in exile, but effectively he’s
the mayor of this town.

BRELISH CHARACTERS

As you develop a Brelish character or NPC,
consider the following.

Slightly Shady. Many Brelish have a loose
relationship with the law. Even if you’re a hero,
you may have a few questionable connections
or friends in low places. Backgrounds such as
criminal or charlatan/spy are a way to reflect
this, regardless of your class. You could also be a
folk hero who’s challenged the laws to protect the
innocent, or an entertainer who’s played in every
dive in Sharn.

Innovative and Independent. Find your
own path in the world; don’t simply follow. As
a cleric you might challenge your church and
follow your own divine revelations. As an arcane
caster you could search for new techniques or to
unravel forgotten secrets.

Practical. Whether it’s about fashion, food, or
conversation, the Brelish tend to be practical and
pragmatic. Why spend a fortune on a fancy meal
when a simple one will do? You'll use whatever
tool gets the job done, and you don’t see a need
for unnecessary flair.

--- PAGE 25 ---

Cyre (THE MouRNLAND)

Capital: Metrol (destroyed)
Noted for Artifice, art, jewelry, music, oratory,
philosophy; creativity, versatility

Destroyed at the end of the Last War, Cyre now
only exists in the hearts of the refugees scattered
across Khorvaire.

Before the war, Cyre was the seat of the kings
and queens of Galifar. The wealth of the kingdom
flowed through Cyre, and it was a nexus for
commerce and culture. By tradition, Cyre’s
Princess Mishann had the rightful claim to the
throne of Galifar. While Cyrans take pride that
they alone were in the right in the Last War, they
unquestionably lost more to the war than any
other nation. As a Cyran, you stand on the moral
high ground, but that may offer little comfort.

Cyrans like to say that their culture represents
the best that Galifar had to offer... which is
to say, a little bit of everything. Cyrans value
diversity and versatility, both in talents and
thought. Cyre couldn’t match Karrnath in
martial discipline or Aundair in the arcane
arts, but as a nation it was characterized by the
flexibility of its forces.

While the Sovereign Host was the dominant
faith of Cyre, the Silver Flame had a significant
following. Many survivors have questioned their
faith in the wake of the Mourning, but some
believe that this is a divine trial and a time when
faith is needed more than ever.

Queen Dannel ir’;Wynarn was in Metrol on
the Day of Mourning and is presumed to be
dead. Her son Prince Oargev ir’;Wynarn holds
court in New Cyre, a massive refugee camp set
up in Breland. Some refugees support Oargev
and the dream ofa restored Cyre, while others
prefer to focus on the future instead of trying to
reclaim the past. As a Cyran you should decide
whether you hold tight to your national identity,
or whether consider yourself to be an adventurer
without a nation.
INTERESTING THINGS About CyRE

¢ Cyre was the ancestral seat of the
dragonmarked House Cannith, the house
of Making. The house maintained arcane
workshops across Cyre. Who knows what
treasures wait in Cannith vaults for those
who brave the dangers of the Mournland?

¢ Stories say communities of warforged live
in the Mournland, including the insurgent
called the Lord of Blades.

¢ While not as flamboyant as Aundair,
Cyran fashions involved bright colors
and glamerweave. Some have made a
point of continuing this custom. Others
wear clothing cut in the Cyran style, but
entirely in black; this is generally known as
“Mourning wear.”

Cyran CHARACTERS

When creating a character from Cyre, consider
the following.

What Have You Lost? Did you lose wealth
or status? Did you have family or loved ones lost
in the Mourning? Did you lose something you
could one day recover from the Mournland—
arcane research, an heirloom artifact? Consider
the impact this has on your background. As a
Cyran noble or soldier, your estates have been
lost and your army scattered; but you still have
the respect of your comrades or peers.

What Do You Hold Onto? Do you have a
trinket that embodies Cyre for you? Is your wand
or weapon an heirloom of your family? As an
entertainer or guild artisan, are you preserving a
particular Cyran tradition?

What Drives You? Are you determined
to solve the mystery of the Mourning? Do
you want to help other refugees? Or are you
only concerned with your personal survival? Is
there something you want to recover from the
Mournland, or would you prefer to never set foot
in it again? Do you hold a grudge against the
nations that fought against Cyre in the war, or
are you only concerned with the future?

CHAPTER 2 | CYRE (THE MOURNLAND)

25

--- PAGE 26 ---

26

DARGUUN

Capital: Rhukaan Draal
Noted for Goblinoid mercenaries

Goblins and their kin have always been part
of Khorvaire. Their ancient empire spread
across the lands now held by the Five Nations,
and many human cities are built on goblin
foundations. This empire collapsed into savagery,
and when humanity arrived, goblins were driven
from their ancestral lands or enslaved. Galifar
ended the practice of slavery. But goblins have
long been a disenfranchised people, living in
the shadows of the Five Nations or in wild lands
shunned by humans.

The land that’s now Darguun was once part
of Cyre. The hobgoblin clans known as the
Ghaal’dar were based in the Seawall Mountains,
but during the Last War the demand for
mercenaries drew an ever-increasing number of
goblins out of the mountains to fight for Cyre and
Breland. Late in the war a brilliant hobgoblin
named Haruuc recognized that the goblins
had become the dominant power in the region.
Uniting the Ghaal’dar under his banner, Haruuc
seized the territory he was supposed to protect.
The Five Nations were unprepared, and Breland
quickly negotiated an alliance with Haruuc to
secure the border. Cyre fought the goblins until
the Day of Mourning, but when the Treaty of
Thronehold was forged the majority of delegates
chose to recognize the new nation of Darguun to
ensure peace.

Darguun is a young and volatile nation.
It is ruled by the hobgoblin Lhesh Haruuc
Sharaat’kor. Haruuc remains a brilliant
strategist and tactician, but many wonder if
he can maintain the web of alliances that hold
the Ghaal’dar together, and whether he or his
people will be content to abide by the terms of the
treaty. And there are stories of other goblins still
hidden in the mountains—the enigmatic “Heirs
of Dhakaan,” who could pose a threat both to the
goblins and Khorvaire itself.

CHAPTER 2 | DARGUUN
Traditionally, the Ghaal’dar worshipped a
form of the Dark Six. House Deneith introduced
the Sovereign Host to the region, and some
goblins have embraced this faith, especially Dol
Dorn, Dol Arrah, and Balinor.

INTERESTING THINGS Asout DarGuUUN

¢ Rhukaan Draalis the largest city in
Darguun. As the goblins have little
interest in the laws of the Five Nations,
Rhukaan Draal is a haven for fugitives and
smugglers.

¢ House Deneith has a strong presence in
Darguun. While no one will employ goblin
armies in the wake of Haruuc’s betrayal,
smaller units of goblin mercenaries are
valued for their ferocity and skills.

DarGuUL CHARACTERS

Darguun 1s a logical point of origin for goblin,
hobgoblin, or bugbear characters. When creating
a Ghaal’dar character from Darguun, consider
the following.

Constant Struggle. Among the Ghaal’dar,
you are constantly forced to prove your strength
and skill or to cede dominance to others.
Ghaal’dar rarely kill in a casual battle; you may
fight to prove a point, but kill only when you must.

Loyal to Your Clan. While you may challenge
your peers in times of peace, when blades are
drawn you stand by your clan—or those allies
you have bonded with—auntil death. Note that
the Ghaal’dar are an alliance of clans: this loyalty
doesn’t extend to warriors of other clans.

Muut and Atcha. Your ancestors once forged
an empire even greater than Galifar. Perhaps
you believe that your people can reclaim this lost
glory. The Dhakaani were renowned for their
martial skill, but also for their discipline. Muut
roughly translates to “duty”—your duty to your
empire, your clan, your commander. Muut is
expected; if you have no muut, you have no place
in battle. Aécha is closer to “honor”; it is your
personal honor, gained by doing virtuous deeds
that go beyond the expectations of muut.

--- PAGE 27 ---

THE Demon WaAsTES

Capital: None
Noted for Fiends, pestilence, violence

Rivers of lava cut across plains of black sand
and volcanic glass. The only vegetation you can
see is blood-red moss and a thick layer of slime,
and that appears to be moving. A jagged rock
formation might be a piece of an ancient wall...
or perhaps that’s just your imagination.

This is the Demon Wastes. Tens of thousands
of years ago, fiends ruled Khorvaire. This region
was the seat of power of some of the mightiest
archfiends, holding cities of rakshasas and
demons. These foul spirits were bound long ago,
but their power still lingers in this place. Vile
creatures continue to crawl up from the depths of
Khyber. And there are a handful of primordial
ruins sustained by dark magic... ruins that may
still be home to fiends and their treasures.

A mountain range known as the Labyrinth
separates the Demon Wastes from the Eldeen
Reaches. Due to ancient warding magic, any
foul thing that wishes to leave must pass through
the Labyrinth. These passes are guarded by the
Ghaash’kala, tribes of orcs sworn to contain the
evils of the Waste. The Ghaash’kala worship a
version of the Silver Flame that they call Kalok
Shash; they consider the people of the Five
Nations to be soft and naive.

The Carrion Tribes are savage barbarians
who dwell in the Wastes. Each tribe is devoted
to one of the archfiends and they engage in
endless battles against the Ghaash’kala and the
other Carrion Tribes. These people are mostly
humans, but there are corrupted orcs, half-orcs,
and tieflings mixed in, along with a handful of
other races represented. The Carrion Tribes are
savage and cruel, and know almost nothing about
the world beyond the Labyrinth.
INTERESTING THINGS
ABouT THE WASTES

Stories tell of the lost city of Ashtakala, a

citadel of fiends still populated by rakshasas.

The libraries of Ashtakala contain arcane
secrets and details about the Draconic
Prophecy and its vaults hold untold
treasures.

¢ The Demon Wastes contain portals to
Khyber—specifically, to demiplanes
within Khyber. These are similar to the
layers of the Abyss in the core cosmology,
unearthly realms populated by demons.
The Ghaash’kala raid these demiplanes to
get the supplies they need to survive.

CHARACTERS FROM THE WASTES

If you’re from the Demon Wastes, you likely fall
into one of two categories.

Ghaash’kala. You’ve been raised in one of
the harshest lands in Eberron and spent your
entire life battling fiends. Why have you left your
post? Have you had a vision from Kalok Shash?
Are you pursuing a rogue demon? Have you
been given a quest by the leader of your tribe?

Most of the Ghaash’kala are orcs or half-orcs.
They’re deeply devoted to their faith and might
be paladins (Vengeance or Devotion), clerics
(Life, Light, or War) or Zealot barbarians.
Hermit and outlander are logical backgrounds:
you know little about the ways of civilization, but
you have have insights and the skills to survive in
the harshest environments.

Carrion Tribes. Why have you left the
Wastes? Have you turned your back on the vile
traditions of your demon-worshipping clan?

Or are you the champion of one of the fiendish
Overlords—but sworn to hunt down and destroy
the servants of a different archfiend, who poses

a more immediate threat to Khorvaire? Either
way, you are a stranger in a strange land: a
savage used to a constant battle for survival in a
world shaped by demons.

CHAPTER 2 | THE DEMON WASTES

27

--- PAGE 28 ---

28

DROAAM

Capital: The Great Crag
Noted for Monstrous mercenaries, byeshk

Droaam is a nation of monsters. It is ruled by
the Daughters of Sora Kell. Each of these three
hags is a legend in her own right, the subjects of
tales used to frighten children. Eleven years ago
they laid claim to the lands west of the Graywall
Mountains and founded the nation of Droaam.

While these barren lands were claimed by
Breland, Galifar had never tamed this wild
region. It had long been a haven for host of
creatures. Gnolls, orcs, and goblins are the most
common, but ogres, trolls, harpies, minotaurs,
medusas, tieflings, changelings, lycanthropes
and many more dwell in this region. In the past
these creatures fought one another more often
than they raided human settlements. Under
the leadership of the Daughters of Sora Kell,
they have been given new purpose... and the
Daughters use an army of ogres and war trolls
to maintain order. To date, the other nations of
Khorvaire have refused to recognize Droaam,
and it was not part of the Treaty of Thronehold.
Most people believe that it can’t last—that even
the Daughters can’t hold this disparate alliance
together—but currently it is stronger than ever.

Droaam works closely with House Tharashk,
selling the services of monstrous soldiers and
laborers and bysehk ore, a form of metal with
magical properties. Beyond that, it is a frontier
nation that is still expanding. As Droaam
isn’t bound by the Treaty of Thronehold, it’s
become a haven for war criminals and deserters,
along with other criminals and mages pursuing
forbidden paths of magic.

Many of the monsters that make up Droaam
have their own unique subcultures. Most worship
the Dark Six, but there are other religious
traditions as well.

CHAPTER 2 | DROAAM
INTERESTING THINGS About DROAAM

¢ The city of Graywall lies on the border
between Droaam and Breland. The second-
largest city in Droaam, it is a center for
trade, a haven for Brelish criminals, and
a place where monsters and humans can
meet on largely neutral ground.

¢ The Venomous Demesne is city of tieflings
on the western shore of Droaam. It is the
largest tiefling community in Khorvaire,
with arcane traditions developed over the
course of thousands of years.

¢ Droaam uses the supernatural abilities of
its citizens as tools, just as the Five Nations
use arcane magic. The Daughters of Sora
Kell keep their people fed with troll sausage
and use harpy’s song to quell brawls. Think
about how a monster’s natural powers
could be put to practical use.

DRoAAMITE CHARACTERS

Minotaurs, orcs, gnolls, tieflings, changelings,
and other monstrous species all have a place
in Droaam. Consider these when making a
Droaamite character.

What Makes You Different? The people of
Droaam aren’t just humans with horns or green
skin. Think about the strengths of your people
and what makes you different from humanity,
both physically and culturally.

Are You Proud? Many citizens of Droaam
are proud of their nation. You know that the rest
of Khorvaire considers you to be a “monster”. In
Droaam, you are going to prove to them that you
and your kind are capable of things humanity
can’t even imagine. Or you might ignore this big
picture and be driven solely by your personal
desires or the goals of your family or warlord.

Backgrounds. The creatures of Droaam are
very diverse. A Droaamite kobold might be an
urchin rogue. A minotaur could be a outlander
barbarian with little knowledge of the outside
world, while a tiefling warlock could be a sage
well versed in history and arcana.

--- PAGE 29 ---

THE ELDEEN REACHES

Capital: The Greenheart
Noted for Agriculture, animal husbandry,
druidic magic

A stretch of fertile farmlands borders a vast,
untamed forest. Farmers tend to the fields, while
tribes of shifters and circles of druids and rangers
roam the woods. These are the Eldeen Reaches.
Druids and shifters have dwelt in the Towering
Woods for thousands of years, but the eastern
farmlands of the Reaches were part of Aundair
until the Last War. The lords of Aundair
focused their resources on the war effort,
ignoring banditry and other problems faced
by the farmers of the east. The Wardens of the
Wood—largest of the druid sects—came to the
aid of these farmers. Fifty years ago, the people of
eastern Aundair seceded and formed the Eldeen
Reaches. The Reaches were recognized as a
nation by the Treaty of Thronehold, but many
fear Aundair will try to reclaim the region.
Druidic magic is a central part of life in the
Eldeen Reaches. Most of its people seek to
live in harmony with the natural world, and
communities have a druidic advisor who helps
with planning and planting. The Towering
Woods are also home to tribes of shifters, who
maintain a nomadic existence. The Wardens of
the Wood maintain order and settle disputes,
and the Great Druid Oalian—an awakened
greatpine—is the spiritual leader of the Reaches.

INTERESTING THINGS
Aout THE REACHES

¢ The fey have a strong presence in the
Towering Woods. The region with the
strongest ties to the Faerie Court is called
The Twilight Demesne.

¢ The Gloaming is a region with strong ties
to Mabar. It’s charged with negative energy
and filled with sinister things.
¢ Varna is the largest city in the Reaches
and the seat of the dragonmarked House

Vadalis.

ELDEEN CHARACTERS

Druidic traditions are important to the people of
the Eldeen Reaches. Even if you’re not a druid,
you may follow one of these five paths. As a
variant human, you could take the Magic Initiate
feat to learn a little druidic magic.

Most of these traditions work with the druidic
Circles of Land, Moon and Shepherd; Beast
Totem barbarians; clerics with the Nature
domain; or rangers with the Hunter or Beast
Master archetypes. Other classes or archetypes
especially suited to a path are called out below.

The Wardens of the Wood seek to maintain
the balance between nature and civilization,
protecting each from the other.

The Greensingers see the magic of the fey
as a part of nature. They honor the archfey that
have influence in their regions and try to live in
harmony with other fey creatures. Bards and
archfey warlocks are often found among the
Greensingers, and the Circles of Dreams works
well for Greensinger druids.

The Gatekeepers protect the natural world
from unnatural threats, such as aberrations and
fiends. They maintain ancient wards that bind
the daelkyr in Khyber. Horizon Walker rangers
and Ancestral Guardian barbarians fit in here.

The Ashbound are champions of the natural
world and fight anything that threatens it. Many
of them consider arcane and even divine magic
to be such a threat. Ashbound sometimes attack
the holdings of dragonmarked houses and seek to
release bound elementals. Barbarians are often
found among the Ashbound, and Berserker and
Storm Herald are logical paths.

The Children of Winter believe that death
is a natural part of life. This leads them to
fight undead, but also to take actions that cull
the weak and strengthen survivors. Extremists
have spread plagues, especially in large cities.
Warlocks and Gloom Stalker rangers can be a
good fit.

CHAPTER 2 | THE ELDEEN REACHES 29

--- PAGE 30 ---

KARRNATH

Capital: Korth
Noted for Ale, dairy, glass, livestock, lumber,
paper, textiles; undead, martial discipline

The people of Karrnath are stoic and grim.
Karrnath is a nation of storms and long winters,
and Karrns are accustomed to enduring hardship
without complaint.

First and foremost, Karnath is known for
its military tradition. Strength, strategy, and
discipline are the core values of Karrnath.

While Karrnath’s soldiers may be the finest in
the Five Nations, they lack the magical support
of Aundair or Thrane, which evened the odds
during the Last War. Nonetheless, Karrns are
proud of their martial history, and most are
convinced that they would have eventually won
the Last War.

Karrnath suffered a series of severe food
shortages and plagues early in the Last War. This
caused the king to embrace the Blood of Vol as
the national religion. The priests of this faith
bolstered Karrnath’s forces with undead. The
current King, Kaius ir’'Wynarn II, broke ties
with the Blood of Vol and has stopped creating
new undead, but Karrnath still has a significant
number of skeletons and zombies in service.
Many Karrns still follow the faith of the Blood of
Vol and approve of the use of undead, but just
as many feel that this disgraces Karrnath’s proud
military history... and that the necromancers
themselves might have been responsible for the
famines and plagues.

INTERESTING THINGS ABOUT
KARRNATH

¢ Rekkenmark Academy is the premier
military institute in Khorvaire; prior to the
Last War, all of Galifar’s officers trained at
Rekkenmark.

¢ The Sovereign Host has regained its place
as the dominant religion of Karrnath, but

30 CHAPTER 2 | KARRNATH
there is still a strong following for the Blood
of Vol. Atur, the so-called “City of Night”,
is the faith’s stronghold in Karrnath.

¢ The Nightwood is a massive forest with a
close tie to the Plane of Mabar. Monsters
and undead sometimes slip out of the
Nightwood to threaten the surrounding
regions.

¢ The laws of Karrnath are harsher than
those of the other Five Nations, closer to a
state of martial law.

¢ King Kaius III is a strong proponent of
peace, but many of the local warlords are
certain Karrnath could and should unite
Galifar, and there are whispers of a coup.

KARRNATHI CHARACTERS

Karrns are somber folk, and generally disapprove
of extravagance or excessive shows of emotion.
As you develop a Karrnathi character or NPC,
consider the following.

Military Service. Karrns have a strong
tradition of military service, and soldier or sailor
are appropriate backgrounds for any character.
The laws of Karrnath are harsh, and criminals
and charlatans have a difficult time here. The
Martial Adept feat is a way to give a character a
strong sense of military experience.

Martial Tradition. Karrnathi tradition
emphasizes teamwork, focus, and force. Heavy
armor and weapons are prefered. Battlemasters
and Champions are both sound archetypes for
fighters, while Karrnathi wizards are typically
Evokers or Necromancers. Heavy Armor Master,
Sentinel, and Tough are all logical feats for
Karrnathi warriors; Polearm Master or Shield
Master are also appropriate, depending on
personal preference.

The Dead. Undead soldiers have served in
Karrnath’s armies for decades. How do you feel
about the undead? Are you a follower of the
Blood of Vol who considers the undead to be a
practical tool? Do you have a relative or friend
currently serving? Or do you despise the Blood of
Vol and the use of necromancy?

--- PAGE 31 ---

THE LHAZAAR PRINCIPALITIES

Capital: Regalport
Noted for Ships, fish, mercenaries, merchants,
pirates

This loose confederacy of pirate lords, merchant
princes, and sea barons holds the northeastern
coastline of Khorvaire and the many islands
scattered across it. While they were recognized as
an allied nation under the Treaty of Thronehold,
the Principalities are a loose alliance. Each island
domain has its own traditions, values, and goals—
and each has a long list of vendettas and feuds
with other princes. Beyond this, anyone who can
win the support of enough ships and people can
claim a principality; if you want to establish your
own tiny kingdom, this is the place to do it.

The Lhazaar are the finest sailors in Khorvaire.
During the Last War, they served all nations as
privateers and engaged in piracy on the side.
With the end of the Last War they’ve largely
returned to the merchant trade, but there are still
pirates on the open seas.

The Lhazaars value their independence. This
is a place where anyone can rise to captain a
ship or even seize a principality. Leadership
is something earned, not given. High Prince
Ryger ir’Wynarn of Regalport seeks to forge
the Principalities into a unified force. He has
the finest fleet, and it was his efforts that saw the
Principalities recognized at Thronehold... for
which he gave himself the title of “High Prince.”
But so far, the other princes have rejected his
proposals for a greater union.

There are principalities devoted to the Blood
of Vol and a few that favor the Sovereign Host.
Beyond this, the Lhazaar show little enthusiasm
for religion, though many will curse the Devourer
when a storm comes.

INTERESTING THINGS About LHAZAAR

¢ The Lhazaar Principalities have the largest
changeling population in Khorvaire. Many
of these are concentrated in the Gray
Tide, a domain founded by changelings.
However, changelings are found across the
Principalities and the Lhazaar are generally
used to them.

¢ The Wind Whisperer principality includes
a number of half-elves with the Mark of
Storm—excoriates and foundlings with
no tie to House Lyrandar. The Wind
Whisperers want to obtain airships, by any
means necessary.

¢ Dreadhold is an infamous island prison
maintained by House Kundarak. Said to
be inescapable, Kundarak houses both
infamous criminals and mystical threats.

LHAZAAR CHARACTERS

As you develop a Lhazaar character or NPC,
consider the following.

Seafarers and Swashbucklers. Most
Lhazaar spend more time at sea than they do
on land. Sailor is an appropriate background
for any Lhazaar, but you can also ask your DM
if you can switch a tool proficiency for vehicles
(water) proficiency. Lhazaar are flamboyant
people with little concern for the law, so
charlatan, criminal, entertainer, and folk hero
are all strong backgrounds.

Local Customs. Each principality is unique.
Each has its own martial traditions, fashions,
and slang. Think about how your choices reflect
your principality. Your dwarf barbarian could
be one of the savage Cloudreavers. Your dashing
swashbuckler rogue could be a colorful Wind
Whisperer. The Bloodsail elves have a strong
tradition of necromancy... an excellent match for
your elf wizard. There are many principalities,
and you can always work with your DM to
develop one that fits your character.

Big Dreams. Whatever their circumstances,
the people of the Principalities are always looking
to the future. What is it you want? To find a
forgotten treasure hoard? To command your
own ship? To take your place as a prince? Think
big, and chase your dreams.

CHAPTER 2 | THE LHAZAAR PRINCIPALITIES 31

--- PAGE 32 ---

32

Tue Mror Hops

Capital: Krona Peak
Noted for Dwarves, banking, mining (precious
and nonprecious metals), metalwork

Long ago, the Mror Lords were forced to swear
fealty to Karrnath and Galifar. In the early days
of the Last War, they declared their independence
and the sovereignty of the Mror Holds. That
declaration was less than a century ago and that
makes it fresh in the mind of many dwarves. The
Mror are proud of the wealth of their nation and
the talents of their smiths, of the skills of their
warriors and the strength of their impregnable
fortresses. The Mror star is rising.

When humanity first came to Khorvaire, the
dwarves were locked in endless feuds. Over
the centuries, they turned their energies to
harnessing the astonishing natural resources
of their mountain home. The dwarves were
reborn as merchant princes. And along the way
they made a remarkable discovery: ruins of an
ancient dwarven empire. This forgotten realm
was destroyed by the daelkyr and its vast halls
are held by aberrations and other dark things.
Nonetheless, these ruins are another source of
pride for the Mror. They’re heirs of a mighty
empire that may one day rise again.

The Mror Holds are a loose confederation.
Twelve noble clans each govern a hold and have
a representative on the Iron Council, which
resolves disputes and issues affecting the entire
nation. Each hold includes a number of lesser
clans, who owe fealty to the noble line.

The Sovereign Host is the dominant faith of
the Mror Holds. Kol Korran is the most beloved
of the Sovereigns, but Onatar, Olladra, Boldrei,
and Dol Dorn are also revered.

INTERESTING THINGS ABOUT THE
Hops

¢ The Mror Holds have deep reserves of
gold, silver, and other rare and precious
metals, along with iron and other ores.

CHAPTER 2 | THE MROR HOLDS
¢ The Ironroot Mountains have long been
home to the Jhorash’tar, a clan of orcs.
The Jhorash’tar have been slowly driven
into the least hospitable regions of the
mountains. A few of the clans are seeking
to incorporate the Jhorash’tar into Mror
society, while others wish to drive them out
once and for all.

¢ There used to bea thirteenth royal clan.
Four hundred year ago, the dwarves of
Noldrunhold were wiped out; no one knows
if this was the work of the Jhorash’tar, a
rival clan, or some force from below the
mountains. Other clans have tried to claim
the Noldrun lands, but this has always met
with disaster.

Mror CHARACTERS

As you develop a Mror character or NPC,
consider the following.

Clan Focus. Is your clan known for
mercantile power or martial skill? Are you a
noble—even if you’re a few steps removed from
true power? Or are you a simple guild artisan
or soldier? Most Mror have embraced modern
martial techniques, but there are a few minor
clans that still cling to the barbarian traditions of
the past.

Holding onto the Past. Do you treasure the
legends of the ancient dwarf empire? As a Mror
artificer, you could be a sage determined to
reclaim the lost techniques of the past. And how
do you feel about the Five Nations? Do you still
hold a grudge for the indignities suffered by your
ancestors, or do you feel pity for this broken
kingdom?

Pride in Possessions. From the wealthiest
clan lord to the simplest miner, the Mror take
great pride in their possessions. Quality is more
important than appearance, and you are also
interested in the history of the things you carry;
if you find a magic weapon, you want to know
the battles it has seen and the warriors who have
wielded it before you.

--- PAGE 33 ---

Q'BARRA

Capital: Newthrone
Noted for Eberron dragonshards, rare herbs

Q’barra is a young nation on the edge of
Khorvaire, an untamed frontier filled with
danger and opportunity. During the golden age
of Galifar, no human ever bothered to cross the
Endworld Mountains to explore the vast jungle
beyond. When the Last War broke out, a fleet of
settlers came to Q’barra in search of a new home
far from the war. As this settlement expanded,
the settlers discovered massive deposits of
Eberron dragonshards. Over the last decade,
a wave of prospectors, wandslingers, refugees,
and fortune-seekers have descended on Q’barra,
along with brigands, deserters from the war, and
all manner of criminals and opportunists.
There’s one small complication: Q’barra
is home to a number of ancient civilizations
humans know nothing about: the lizardfolk of
the Cold Sun Federation, the dragonborn of
Ka’rhashan, and the confederacy of the Poison
Dusk. Most settlers know very little about
these cultures, and collectively refer to them as
“scales.” King Sebastes ir’Kesslan of Newthrone
has established a treaty with the Cold Sun
Federation, but communication has always been
difficult. The prospectors of Hope regularly
break the terms of the treaty. There have been a
number of clashes with the scales and many here
fear that a greater conflict is on the horizon.
Q’barra is split into three main regions. New
Galifar is the original colony; it has a feudal
structure and holds to the laws of the Five
Nations. Its capital city of Newthrone is the
largest city and port in Q’barra. To the north,
Hope is a collection of small mining towns. In
Hope, the law goes only as far as the people
willing to enforce it. And beyond these human
regions lie the unexplored lands of the scales.
INTERESTING THINGS ABouT Q’BARRA

¢ There are ruins in Q’barra tied to the Age
of Demons. So far the settlers know little
of the history of this region, but the Poison
Dusk has ties to fiendish powers.

¢ House Tharashk has a strong presence in
both Hope and New Galifar. Tharashk
is the primary buyer of Eberron
dragonshards, and also runs its own large-
scale mining operations.

Q’BARRAN CHARACTERS

Q’barra is home to the settlers and prospectors
from the west—mostly humans but including
members of all races found in the Five Nations.
It’s also a possible origin for dragonborn and
lizardfolk characters.

Settlers. Q’barra is an excellent place to
explore some of the traditional archetypes of the
classic Western. As a paladin, you could be a
lone sheriff seeking to protect your newly formed
mining village. Your cleric could be the town
preacher. As a sorcerer or bard with a criminal
background, you could be a dashing wandslinger
looking for trouble and gold. Q’barra can be a
land of opportunity for newly freed warforged
and Cyran refugees in search of a new home.

Lizardfolk. The lizardfolk have a primitive
culture that blends druidic traditions with the
beliefs of the Silver Flame. You may have been
sent to study the softskins—to learn about
them and potentially serve as an envoy for your
people. Alternatively, you could be following a
personal vision.

Dragonborn. The dragonborn live amid the
remnants of ancient glory. They have a proud
martial tradition, and a number of dragonborn
have ventured west in search of worthy
challenges. If you follow this path, you might
have served as a mercenary in the Last War.

CHAPTER 2 | Q’BARRA 33

--- PAGE 34 ---

34

THE SHADOW MARCHES

Capital: Zarash’ak (unofficial)
Noted for Eberron dragonshards, herbs

When most people think of the Shadow
Marches, they imagine a fetid backwater where
illiterate humans mingle with orcs and other foul
creatures, practicing strange rites by the light of
the moons. While flawed, this vision isn’t entirely
inaccurate. The Shadow Marches are a desolate
land of swamps and moors. The homeland of the
orcs, it was scarred in the ancient conflict with
the daelkyr. These fiends left twisted creatures
and aberrations in the swamps, and sowed seeds
of madness that linger to this day. There are
indeed moonlit rituals in the Marches: some to
honor the daelkyr, others to maintain the wards
that keep them trapped in Khyber. Humans
came to the Marches long ago, refugees fleeing

a war in the distant land of Sarlona. Over time
the two cultures merged, forming the Marches as
they exist today.

The Marches had little contact with Galifar or
the east until a few hundred years ago, when a
House Sivis expedition made two discoveries: the
region contained valuable dragonshards, and a
number of clans had manifested the Dragonmark
of Finding. This led to the foundation of House
Tharashk, as these clans joined together to
master the economic potential of their mark and
leverage their mineral wealth.

The Shadow Marches aren’t a nation. No one
voice speaks for the clans and tribes, and most
of the tribes have no interest in dealing with
outsiders. House Tharashk is the largest faction
in the region, and their city of Zarash’ak is the
center for commerce.

House Tharashk is the main point of contact
between the Shadow Marches and the outside
world. Tharashk aside, it remains a collection
of tribes and cultists following their ancient
traditions in the shadows of the swamps.

CHAPTER 2 | THE SHADOW MARCHES
INTERESTING THINGS
Aout THE MARCHES

The Gatekeepers are a druidic tradition
that began in the Shadow Marches. The
defeated the daelkyr in the past, and
they are sworn to protect Eberron from
unnatural and extraplanar threats.

¢ The Cults of the Dragon Below are wildly
diverse, and often driven by madness.
Many worship daelkyr or have ties to
aberrations.

MARCHER CHARACTERS

As a character from the Shadow Marches,

you could choose to carry the Mark of Finding
regardless of whether you have ties to House
Tharashk.

As a Marcher, a critical question is whether
you have ties to one of the orc tribes or the
integrated clans.

The Clans blend the traditions of human and
orc, building towns and working with steel. They
still rely on skilled hunters, and they have their
own unique traditions of art and music. Rangers,
rogues, and bards all have a place in the clans,
and there are gatekeeper druids among them.
Some in the clans worship a limited form of the
Sovereign Host focused on Balinor, Boldrei, and
Arawai; this is a sound path for a Nature cleric.

The Tribes maintain traditions that
predate humanity. They’re nomadic hunter-
gatherers, and don’t work metals; they make
their tools from stone, hide, wood, and bone.
Tribal Marchers are mostly orcs, but there
are a few humans and half-orcs among them.
Tribal Marchers are fierce warriors and skilled
hunters with a close bond to the natural world;
barbarians, druids, and rangers all have a place
here. Outlander and hermit are both appropriate
backgrounds for a tribal Marcher.

--- PAGE 35 ---

THE TALENTA PLAINS

Capital: Gatherhold
Noted for Halflings, livestock, dinosaurs

The halflings of the Talenta Plains live a simpler
life than the people of the Five Nations. They
have no cities, no industrialized magic. But

they do have dinosaurs. The halflings have
domesticated the dinosaurs of the plains, and use
these creatures as mounts, livestock, and beasts of
burden. There is a sacred bond between a hunter
and their mount, and few people are prepared to
face a raging halfling barbarian riding a furious
clawfoot raptor.

Talenta religion is based around reverence for
spirits, both departed ancestors and the spirits
of the natural world. Each nomadic tribe has
a lath—a chieftain who guides and protects the
tribe—but it is the shamans who consult the
spirits and choose the paths of migration.

In the past the tribes have stood alone, but
during the Last War many halflings came
together under Lathon Halpum to defend their
land, and it is Halpum who won recognition for
the Plains as one of the Thronehold nations. The
Plains have only been considered a nation for
two years, and it’s still unclear what this means;
however, it has resulted in more traffic between
the Plains and the outside world.

INTERESTING THINGS
ABouT THE PLAINS

¢ Gatherhold is one of the only cities in
the Talenta Plains. All tribes come to
Gatherhold to trade, hold councils, and
settle disputes. House Ghallanda maintains
Gatherhold, but it is understood that
Gatherhold belongs to the people, not the
houses.

¢ House Ghallanda and House Jorasco
both began in the Talenta Plains and still
maintain connections to their ancestral
homeland. The dragonmarked bloodlines
are spread throughout the tribes, and you
can play a dragonmarked halfling from the
Plains who doesn’t work for the houses.

¢ Stories speak of ancient ruins that date back
to the first age of the world, and of a vast
graveyard holding the bones of dragons.

TALENTAN CHARACTERS

Review the halfling section in chapter 3 for
quirks and other things relevant to characters
from the Plains. Also consider the following.

Wild Warriors and Tricksters. You were
born in the wild, and your wits and your weapons
helped you survive. Talenta warriors are often
barbarians or rangers, relying on speed and skill.
However, cunning and charisma are equally
important, and bards and rogues certainly have
a place on the plains. Outlander is a logical
background, but you could easily be a bold folk
hero, a dashing entertainer, or a clever charlatan.
You could even be an urchin who was stranded
in a great city at a young age and adapted to
hunting in this stone jungle.

Surrounded by Spirits. Fey, fiends, the
ghosts of ancestors; these are all part of the
spirit world, and they’re all around you. Do you
believe that the spirits guide your actions? Do
you show respect to the spirits of a location?
Talentan shamans tend to be Shepherd or Moon
druids, often assuming the form of dinosaurs.
However, you could reflect a strong bond to
spirits by playing an Archfey warlock, Nature
cleric, Oath of the Ancients paladin, or a Beast
Totem or Ancestral Guardian barbarian. Hermit
and Outlander are sound backgrounds, but
you could be an acolyte or a sage who consults
with spirits instead of reading books. Warriors
and shamans alike often wear masks in order to
present a particular face to the spirit world.

Dinosaurs. Talenta halflings have a close
bond to their dinosaur companions. You can find
additional information on this—and statistics for
a clawfoot raptor—in chapter 3.

CHAPTER 2 | THE TALENTA PLAINS

35

--- PAGE 36 ---

THRANE

Capital: Flamekeep
Noted for Divine magic, the Silver Flame; fine
crafts, wool, textiles, fruit, livestock

The modern Church of the Silver Flame was
founded in Thrane, and most of the people of the
nation are devout followers of this faith. During
the Last War, the people of Thrane chose to set
aside the rule of the monarch and to embrace
the leadership of the Church. For the last seventy
years Thrane has been a theocracy. The head of
the state is 11-year-old Jaela Daeran, the divine
selected Keeper of the Flame; however, Jaela
looks to the Council of Cardinals to perform the
practical work of running the nation.

The primary purpose of the Silver Flame is
to defend the innocent from supernatural evil.
The faith has always had a militant aspect,
with battalions of templars and peasant militias
prepared to face undead, lycanthropes, or other
monstrous threats. But compassion and charity
are core values of the church, and the templars
are tasked to defend all innocents. Even during
the Last War, if a fiendish threat were to arise in
a Brelish village, Thrane templars would ally with
the locals to bring an end to the threat. With that
said, this is the zdeal. There are zealous Thranes
who believe the Church is destined to reunite
Galifar under the Silver Flame, and corrupt
priests interested only in power and wealth.

Not all priests are divine spellcasters, and the
typical templar is a mundane warrior; however,
due to the deep faith of its people, Thrane has
more clerics, paladins, and divine spellcasters
than any other nation in Khorvaire.

INTERESTING THINGS ABOUT THRANE

¢ Flamekeep is the capital of Thrane and the
seat of the Silver Flame. The Keeper of the
Flame dwells in the great Cathedral of the
Silver Flame, which holds a pillar of fire
born when Tira Miron sacrificed herself to
bind the demon Bel Shalor.

36 CHAPTER 2 | THRANE
¢ Faith isa part of daily life m Thrane, and
divine adepts provide many important
services. However, arcane magic is still a
part of life in Thrane. The streets are lit
with everbright lanterns, and there are
magewrights and even wizards, just not as
many as in other nations.

¢ The feudal system of nobility remains n
place; it’s simply that ultimate authority
rests in the hands of the church. Queen
Diani ir’;Wynarn is the “blood regent,”
serving as a symbolic advisor to the Keeper
of the Flame. There is a small fraction of
the population who would like to see the
traditional monarchy restored to power.

THRANE CHARACTERS

As you develop a Thrane character or NPC,
consider the following.

The Impact of Faith. Are you a follower of
the Silver Flame? Faith doesn’t require divine
magic, but if you want to reflect a close bond
to the Flame, you could gain a few divine spells
by taking the Magic Initiate feat. Archery is a
devotional practice of the Silver Flame, so as
a martial Thrane you might focus on archery-
related combat styles and spells or take the
Sharpshooter feat. Any Thrane could take the
acolyte background to reflect a strong connection
to the church, or the soldier background based
on service with the templars.

Church or Crown? Do you fully support the
theocracy? Or would you like to see Queen Diani
restored to the throne? There are many people
of faith who believe that miring the church in
politics distracts it from its true mission and
invites corruption.

Dealing with Darkness. The Shadow in
the Flame can tempt even the most virtuous
soul. How do you react when you encounter
corruption and greed? Are you a compassionate
person who seeks to lead people to the light, or
a zealot determined to crush all darkness? How
will you react when you encounter monsters—
muinotaurs, ogres, gnolls—in a civilized setting?

--- PAGE 37 ---

VALENAR

Capital: Taer Valaestas
Noted for Elves, mercenaries, horses

In the midst of the Last War, an army of warrior
elves seized this region from Cyre, invoking a
claim to the land from long before humanity’s
arrival on the continent. The elves of Valenar are
utterly devoted to the arts of war. Their cavalry
has no equal in Khorvaire, and they combine a
talent for magic with stealth and swordplay. Cyre
employed the Valenar as mercenaries and was
entirely unprepared for betrayal. When Cyre was
destroyed in the Mourning, no one wanted to
challenge the Valenar; in the interests of peace,
this elf kingdom was recognized by the Treaty of
Thronehold.

The elves are already pushing the limits of
the treaty. The Valenar constantly search for
worthy challenges. While some venture into the
Mournland or the untamed jungles of Q’barra,
Valenar warbands have launched raids into
Darguun and even Karrnath. While High King
Shaeras Vadallia has promised to rein in his
warriors, some believe that the elves will continue
this provocation... that their main interest is
conflict with a worthy foe, and that they want
Darguun or Karrnath to declare war.

Valenar is a feudal kingdom. The elves are
warrior princes, but they spend little time at
rest. They operate in small units called warbands,
and those that aren’t patrolling the kngdom
are abroad seeking adventure. Most of the civic
administration is handled by half-elves. Some
of these are the children of Valenar elves, but
most are immigrants who’ve come from the Five
Nations in search of opportunity. Below this are
the natives. Once vassals of Cyre, now they’re
vassals of Valenar. Some hated the Cyrans and
welcome the elves. Others despise their new
leaders and are plotting against them. But life
hasn’t changed much for the commoners, and
most don’t actually care who wears the crown.
INTERESTING THINGS ABouT VALENAR

¢ The dragonmarked House Lyrandar has
helped the elves build the infrastructure
of their kingdom. The half-elves have no
homeland, and some believe that the half-
elves of Lyrandar hopes to make Valenar a
haven for their people.

¢ The ancestors of the elves fought the
ancient goblins for control of this region
many thousands of years ago. Relics of
that struggle can still be found scattered
across Valenar and the Blade Desert: ruins,
haunted fortresses, battlefields that have
slipped out of alignment with time.

VALENAR CHARACTERS

The elf section of chapter 3 provides additional
information about creating Valenar elves.
Whatever kind of character you’re creating,
consider the following.

Martial Role. Valenar has always been
on a war footing. As an elf, consider your role
in a warband. Are you a simple soldier? An
outlander scout? An acolyte devoted to the elven
ancestors, or a sage familiar both with Valenar
history and the lore of potential enemies? As a
half-elf you might be an entertainer, a sailor, or
a guild artisan working to support the elf army...
or a charlatan seeking seeking intrigue and
opportunities. As one of the vassals, you could be
a guild artisan working for the elves, an urchin
born in Taer Valaestas, or even a folk hero
fighting to protect the common folk.

Dreams. What is it you hope to achieve as
an adventurer? Have you left Valenar behind,
or are your aspirations tied to the kingdom?

As a half-elf with Valenar blood, do you want
to be recognized as a true Valenar—granted a
bond to a patron ancestor, a place in a warband,
and a chance at immortality? Or are you more
interested in building a homeland for your own
people? As a native, do you want to work with
the elves or do you want to drive them out—and
if so, who do you want to replace them?

CHAPTER 2 | VALENAR

37

--- PAGE 38 ---

38

LILARGO

Capital: Korranberg
Noted for Gnomes, alchemy, education,
elemental binding, entertainment, precious stones

Zilargo is the homeland of the gnomes, and

at first glance it appears to be a paradise. The
streets are bright and clean. The universities and
libraries are the finest in Khorvaire. Everyone
seems happy and helpful, and crime is all but
unheard of. But Zil society is filled with layers

of intrigue and blackmail that are often invisible
to human eyes. And below that lies The Trust,

a ruthless secret police force that eliminates any
threat to society.

Zilargo isn’t a tyranny. Each major city has a
democratically elected ruling council and a seat
on the Triumvirate that governs the nation; the
Trust reports to the Triumvirate. The Zil gnomes
built this system, and they are quite happy with
it. Their streets are safe, and as long as you play
by the rules of the game, the Trust won’ t target
you. Outsiders find this casual acceptance of
preemptive assassination to be terrifying, but the
Zil actually trust the Trust.

Every Zil gnome is in a web of intrigues. This
is condoned by the Trust, as long as no laws are
broken and the state itself isn’t threatened. It’s
fine for a gnome charlatan to connive another
gnome out of a jewel mine—as long as this is
accomplished through cunning, negotiation, or
deception rather than violence or outright theft,
and as long as the mine stays in Zil hands. The
same applies to adventurers planning schemes
in Zilargo: violence will get one targeted by the
Trust, but itrigue is perfectly acceptable.

The Trust itself is a network of spies and
assassins. Most agents of the Trust simply pass
information through dead drops; some estimate
that a third of the nation works for the Trust
in this capacity. When the Trust identifies a
threat, it acts preemptively. Ifa problem can be
solved without violence—by sharing a piece of
information, or a whispered warning sent via

CHAPTER 2 | ZILARGO
message—that’s what they'll do. But the Trust
wont hesitate to eliminate a threat, whether with
poison, spell, or a blade. Typically, a target will
never even see the agent that kills them.

INTERESTING Tunes About ZILARGO

The Library of Korranberg is considered to
be the finest repository of knowledge in all
of Khorvaire.

¢ The Korranberg Chronicle is the leading
source of news in the Five Nations, and
gnome chroniclers travel across Khorvaire
in search of stories.

e The major cities of Zilargo have temples
and shrines dedicated to every religion.
Most Zil explore a few faiths before settling
on one; others practice multiple religions.

Zit CHARACTERS

As you develop a Zil character, consider the
following things, along with the suggestions in the
Gnome section in chapter 3.

Family Ties. In a nation shaped by intrigue,
you have to have someone you can rely on...
and for the Zil, that’s family. Unless you’re an
orphan, discuss your family with your DM.
What’s their business? Who’s your favorite
relative? Are you currently involved in any family
schemes? Family members may call on you for
help over the course of your adventurers, but
they can also be a resource for you.

Knowledge and Power. The Zil prize
knowledge above all else. Sage is a suitable
background for any Zil; charlatan and spy are
also appropriate, reflecting their love of intrigue.
Classes that specialize in melee combat are rare
among the Zil. Rogues, bards, wizards, and
artificers are the soldiers of Zilargo.

One unusual option is to play a warlock whose
pact is with the Trust itself. You receive your
orders telepathically. Your class abilities can
reflect specialized training or granted abilities—
the magical equivalent of super-spy gadgets!

--- PAGE 39 ---

EVERYDAY LIFE

There are details you don’t need to know, but
that you might want to know. When something
costs | CP, you can just say “one copper piece” but
do the people of Khorvaire have a name for
their coins? Is there a convention for naming
characters? This Wayfinder’s Guide is an overview.
If you want more information on a particular
subject, refer to the sources in the Appendix.
But for now, here are a few useful facts about
everyday life in Khorvaire.

THE CALENDAR OF GALIFAR

The Galifar calendar tracks the years since the
Kingdom of Galifar was founded, using the
abbreviation YK. The week is divided into seven
days, with four weeks to a month and twelve
months to a year. Despite the fall of Galifar, the
nations of Khorvaire still use this calendar.

The seven days of the week, in order, are Sul,
Mol, Zol, Wir, Zor, Far, Sar.

The twelve months are named after the twelve
moons that orbit the world:

1. Zarantyr (mid-winter)
Olarune (late winter)
Therendor (early spring)
Eyre (mid-spring)
Dravago (late spring)
Nymm (early summer)
Lharvion (mid-summer)

Barrakas (late summer)

OO ND oO Fw N

Rhaan (early autumn)
10. Sypheros (mid-autumn)
11. Aryth (late autumn)

12. Vult (early winter)

King Jarot ir;Wyrnarn died on Therendor 12,
894 YK. The Day of Mourning occurred almost
exactly a century later, on Olarune 20 994 YK.

By default, a new Eberron campaign begins on
Zarantyr 1,998 YK.
THE CURRENCY OF GALIFAR

Merchants and nobles often use letters of
credit to handle large transactions, drawing on
the reserves of the dwarvish banks of the Mror
Holds. But most day-to-day transactions use
coins of precious metal. With the collapse of the
Kingdom of Galifar, each of the Five Nations
began to mint its own currency, along with

the Mror bankers. However, while the designs
imprinted on these coins vary based on the
source, each of these forces has continued to use
the same metals, weights, and denominations set
forth in the days of Galifar, maintaining a simple
standard for commerce across Khorvaire.

¢ The crown (CP) is made from copper and
traditionally depicts the crown of Galifar
on one face. The crown is the lowest
denomination of coin minted under the rule
of Galifar, which spawned the saying “In
Galifar, even the beggars have crowns.”

¢ The sovereign (SP) is made from silver,
and bears the face of a living or recent
ruler. An unskilled laborer can expect to
earn a sovereign for a day’s work.

¢ The galifar (GP) is made from gold. It
bears the image of Galifar I, the founder of
the old kingdom.

¢ The platinum dragon (PP) bears the
image of one of the dragons of legend.
With a value of one hundred sovereigns,
these coins are used only by the wealthiest
citizens of Khorvaire, and the average
peasant may never see such a coin.

There are a number of other coins in circulation,
such as the double crown of Breland or the

silver throne of Cyre, which has a value of five
sovereigns. Still, all of the major nations make
use of the four basic coins described above.

CHAPTER 2 | EVERYDAY LIFE

39

--- PAGE 40 ---

LANGUAGES IN EBERRON

In Eberron, languages are tied to culture and
geography as opposed to biology. A dwarf raised
in Breland might not actually know Dwarvish,
while the language of the giants 1s closely tied

to the distant land of Xen’drik. The following
optional rules are a way to explore this aspect of
the setting.

OprionaL Rute: ComMON LANGUAGES

Common is the language of the Five Nations.
The Mror dwarves speak Dwarvish and the
Aereni elves speak Elvish, but they know
Common as the language of trade.

In Eberron, there are a number of other
languages that serve this role in different regions
or cultures. The DM may change the languages
assigned to a monster or NPC to reflect this.

Giant is the common tongue of Xen’drik. It
is rarely encountered on Khorvaire. Monsters in
Khorvaire usually speak Goblin.

Goblin is the common tongue of Darguun,
Droaam, and the Shadow Marches, along with
most “monstrous” creatures in Khorvaire. It was
the language of the goblin empire that dominated
the continent before humanity arrived. Orcish is a
dead language; it may be encountered in ancient
inscriptions, but modern orcs speak Goblin.

Infernal is spoken by spirits that embody
evil. This incorporates Abyssal; all fiends speak a
common language. Infernal is sometimes called
“Khyber’s speech,” while Celestial is “the tongue
of Siberys.”

Riedran is the common tongue of the
continent of Sarlona. Quori is spoken by the
kalashtar, spirits native to Dal Quor, and the
Inspired lords of Riedra.

40 CHAPTER 2 | MAGIC IN KHORVAIRE
OprionAL RULE: SWAPPING RACIAL LANGUAGES

This optional rule allows you to exchange a
language granted by your race for a different
standard language. Your DM must approve the
language you select. This is a way to reflect a
character with no ties to the culture of their race.
Halfling is the language of the Talenta Plains; ifa
halfling was raised in the Mror Holds, they might
replace Halfling with Dwarvish to reflect this.

NAMES IN THE Five Nations

Naming conventions vary by nation. The Zil
gnomes always use three names—a given name,
a family name, and a clan name. Warforged
often use a single name. Within the Five Nations,
most citizens have a given name followed by a
surname. This surname is either a family name
or related to an occupation or region of origin.
So Sorn Fellhorn, Kara of Windshire, and Tellan
Magewright are all names you might find among
the common folk of the Five Nations.

The noble families of Galifar—along with
those granted land and titles by one of the
sovereigns of the Five Nations— add the prefix
ir’ to their surname. So the name Darro ir’Lain
tells you that this individual is a landed noble.
The Wynarns were the royal line of Galifar,
and the current rulers of Aundair, Breland, and
Karrnath are all heirs of the Wynarn bloodline.
Thus, Queen Aurala of Aundair is Aurala
a’ Wynarn.

Another common prefix is d’, used by
any heir of a dragonmarked house who has
manifested a dragonmark. So Mernix d’Cannith
is a member of House Cannith who has
manifested the Mark of Making.

--- PAGE 41 ---

MAGIC IN KHORVAIRE

Your airship soars through the skies,
approaching the mile-high towers of Sharn. You
disembark, walking down a street lit by everbright
lanterns, and make your way to your favorite
Ghallanda tavern. Inside, the halfling bartender
uses prestidigitation to chill and flavor an array

of exotic beverages. A Phiarlan bard entertains
the crowd with song and a dazzling display of
illusions. An argument between two veterans
escalates into violence: the Brelish tough
produces a knife, but the Aundairian duelist
already has a wand in her hand.

Magic is a part of life in Khorvaire. Arcane
magic is a form of science, and the Five Nations
are built on this foundation. Magewrights are
professional spellcasters who use rituals and
cantrips to provide a host of services. The
dragonmarked houses provide magical services
that are beyond the powers of a common
magewright. And manifest zones are specific
locations where the energies of the planes bleed
into Eberron; these allow dramatic effects that
can’t be replicated elsewhere, such as the colossal
towers of Sharn.

Wipe Maaic, Not Hick Macic

While magic is widespread, the scope of magic is
limited. Low-level spells are a part of everyday
life, but high-level magic remains remarkable.
Common Magic. Cantrips and Ist
level spells are commonplace. Magewrights,
wandslingers, and dragonmarked heirs can all
produce these sorts of effects, and you’ll see
the impact of this magic as part of everyday
life. Gommon magic items can be found in any
community and purchased in any major city,
provided you can find a shop or dragonmarked
enclave that deals in what you’re looking for.
Common magic items generally range in price
from 50-100 gp.
Uncommon Magic. There are magewrights
and dragonmarked heirs who can cast 2nd
and 3rd level spells, and such services can be
bought... but not cheaply. You'll find houses
with arcane locks on their doors, but that’s a sign of
a wealthy owner. The same is true of uncommon
magic items. It’s possible to purchase these in

a major city, but selection and quantity will be
limited; in a smaller town, they'll be more limited
still. Uncommon magic items typically cost
between 100-500 gp, though costs can be higher
based on scarcity.

Rare magic. Spells of 4th through 5th level
are beyond the reach of most people. People are
familiar with the concept of spells like teleportation
or raise dead, but few people have ever seen either
of these things actually performed. Only the
most remarkable magewrights have access to
such magic, so these services usually come from
the dragonmarked houses—specifically heirs
with Greater Dragonmarks and dragonshard
focus items.

In theory, rare magic items can be purchased,
with prices ranging anywhere from 2,000 gp—
20,000 gp. In practice, these things are rare. A
rare magic item might be the prize of a collection
in a Sharn emporium, or the showpiece of
a House Cannith forgehold. It’s more likely
that such items will be acquired as rewards for
working with a powerful organization than
simply found for purchase in a store. Of course,
should you have a ridiculous sum of gold burning
a hole in your purse, you might be able to
commission House Cannith to create a rare item
for you... though this would take time.

Very Rare and Legendary Magic. Spells
of 6th level and above are largely the stuff of
legends and folktales. The few people known to
wield this sort of power are themselves legends:
Mordain the Fleshweaver, the Keeper of the
Silver Flame, the Daughters of Sora Kell. If
encountered in the Five Nations, such magic
will likely be tied to an eldritch machine or a
manifest zone.

Legendary magic items are generally the work
of dragons or demons, or relics found in the ruins
of Xen’drik. Very rare magic items could be tied
to similar sources, or they might be masterworks
of the elves of Aerenal or Valenar heirlooms. It’s
unlikely that such a treasure would ever be sold.

CHAPTER 2 | MAGIC IN KHORVAIRE 4l

--- PAGE 42 ---

42

MAGEWRIGHTS

In Khorvaire, magic is a tool that’s incorporated
into many jobs. There are entirely magical
careers, such as the medium or the oracle. But
much of the time, mundane skill and magic are
combined together. A lamplighter can work with
mundane lanterns, but also learns continual flame
to create and maintain the everbright lanterns that
light the streets. A chef can heat and flavor food
with a cantrip.

A magewright knows one to four cantrips or
spells. Magewrights don’t use spell slots. Gantrips
can be used casually, but their spells are usually
cast as rituals—even if the spell doesn’t normally
have the ritual tag. When converting a spell
to a magewright ritual, it can have a casting
time of up to one hour. It’s also common for
a magewright’s ritual to have an additional
component cost in dragonshards, the fuel of
the magical economy. A typical cost would be
25 gp for a Ist level ritual, 50 gp for a 2nd level
ritual, doubled for each subsequent level; but this
is only a basic guideline. The point is that the
limitations on a magewright are time and money.
A locksmith can cast more than one arcane lock
in a day; but it takes an hour and 50 gp for each
lock they want to create.

While the common spell list is a starting point
for magewright spells, you can modify these spells
to fit the job. Spells used by adventurers are often
quite versatile. Prestidigitation can heat or chill
an object, light or extinguish a flame. Both the
lamplighter and the chef may know prestidigitation,
but the chef’s version may only work on
food, while the lamplighter can only light or
extinguish flames. An actor may know a version
of thaumaturgy that helps project their voice but
doesn’t provide any of the other benefits. Artisans
often know a version of guzdance that only helps
with their particular art. This could also result
in a magewright having a spell that’s superior to
the usual version of a spell, reflecting their tight
focus. An oracle’s version of augury might be able
to predict outcomes up to a week in advance,
as it’s hard to make a business out of predicting
events that occur in the next 30 minutes.

CHAPTER 2 | MAGEWRIGHTS
In dealing with a magewright, think about the
form their magic takes. A locksmith can perform
knock as a ritual. But they don’t just snap their
fingers. They may use lengths of wire or iron rods,
tracing patterns around the lock they’re dealing
with while murmuring incantations. An oracle
might work with cards or dice, or study charts of
planar conjunctions. The magewright performs
magic as both a job and a science.

Here are some examples of magewrights and
the services they provide. Not every healer can
cast lesser restoration, and not every oracle can cast
dwination—these are general guidelines.

¢ Chef. Prestidigitation (food only), purify food S

drink (ritual), gentle repose (ritual, food only).
Familiar with cook’s tools.

¢ Healer. Proficient with Medicine and
herbalism kits. Spare the dying, detect poison S
disease (ritual), lesser restoration (1-hour ritual,
50 gp component cost).

¢ Launderer. Mending, prestidigitation; both
only affect fabric.

¢ Lamplighter. Light, continual flame (1-hour
ritual, 50 gp component cost); uses tinker’s
tools to create and repair lanterns.

¢ Locksmith. Arcane lock (1-hour ritual, 50
gp component cost), knock (ritual, 50 gp
component cost); proficient with thieves’
tools and tinker’s tools.

¢ Medium. Speak with dead (ritual, 100 gp
component cost). Some mediums use a
form of minor illusion to conjure an image
of the deceased. A medium might be
proficient in Insight to help mourners deal
with grief—or in Deception.

* Oracle. Augury (ritual, 50 gp cost); dination
(1-hour ritual, 200 gp cost).

The term magewright specifically refers to an
arcane spellcaster. In religious communities (such
as those in Thrane) adventurers may find divine
casters performing these same functions. Such a
divine caster is called an adept. Divine magic is

a gift instead of a science, and adepts typically
work on behalf of their faith rather than selling
their services.

--- PAGE 43 ---

WANDSLINGERS

The Last War saw a dramatic increase in the
use of magic in battle. Aundair was the first
nation to field units of arcane dragoons, but as
the war continued cantrip specialists could be
found in the armies of most nations. Due to the
considerable training required to master magic,
this has remained an elite specialty. The common
soldier wields a spear or crossbow but it’s not
unusual to see a warrior with a sword on one hip
and a wand on the other. Within the army, such
a soldier is referred to as an arcaneer.

On the streets, they are called wandslingers.

A wandslinger is defined by the ability to
cast at least two cantrips, typically drawn from
the sorcerer or wizard spell list. A common
wandslinger also knows a single Ist-level spell,
which they can cast once per long rest. An
exceptional wandslinger may know up up to
three spells of up to 3rd level. A wandslinger’s
spells and cantrips are almost always combat
spells with an immediate effect, such as fire boll,
ray of frost, burning hands, or shield.

The critical limitation of the wandslinger is a
dependence on an arcane focus. A wandslinger
must have an arcane focus—a wand, rod,
staff, orb, or crystal—to perform magic. Some
wandslingers use different focuses for their
various cantrips, such as a wand for fire bolt and
a rod for burning hands, but wandslingers can use
any arcane focus they get their hands on. As a
result, arcane focuses are regarded as weapons
throughout Khorvaire.

If you’ve got a wand tucked into your belt,
people may assume you know how to use it.
PLayinc A WANDSLINGER

“Wandslinger’ isn’t a class. Anyone who can
perform arcane magic could be considered a
wandslinger, and any character could acquire
a wandslinger’s spell set by taking the Magic
Initiate feat. As such, whether your character is
a wandslinger is really a question of style.

¢ Did you serve in the Last War? If so, who
did you fight for? Did you learn or hone
your magical skills as part of your military
training?

* Doyou primarily view your magic as a
weapon, or do you hate being forced into
combat? Do you have a diverse range of
spells, or is your magic largely oriented
around combat?

* A player character is never required to
use an arcane focus when casting a spell.
But if you’re a wandslinger, you’re more
comfortable with a focus in your hand.
Casting a spell without a focus takes
effort. There’s no mechanical penalty
associated with this; it’s just something to
consider when describing your actions.

As long as your DM approves, you could
justify the abilities of an arcane class as

being derived from wandslinger training as
opposed to the usual source. If you’re playing
a sorcerer or warlock, you could say that your
choice of Sorcerous Origin or Otherworldly
Patron reflects specialized military training.
This doesn’t change the way these features
function; it means that instead of making a pact
with a fiend, your warlock has a connection

to an elite order of arcaniers that share these
abilities. Instead of dealing with the demands of
a patron, you might receive requests from your
former commander or your comrades from the
war. Ultimately, it’s about the story you want to
tell with your character. Are you an impetuous
duelist, quick to draw your wand at the first
provocation? A former soldier trained to use
magic as a weapon? Or an arcane scholar who
despises hotheaded wandslingers who know
nothing about the science of magic?

Identifying your character as a wandslinger
doesn’t change your class features. Chapter 3
offers a wider selection of arcane focus items
that can add color to your character.

CHAPTER 2 | WANDSLINGERS

43

--- PAGE 44 ---

44

Tue MAcIcaL Economy

With this general understanding of the sort of
magic that’s found in the world, here’s a closer
look at a few particular fields of industry.

CoMMUNICATION

The Couriers’ Guild of House Orien runs a
standard postal service, delivering messages by
horse and lightning rail. Sending a letter to a
central station in a major city costs a few copper
pieces. A direct delivery within a city could run
up to 5 sp. Sending a large or unusual package—
or a rushed delivery—costs considerably more.

Should you need to send a message more
quickly, you’ll turn to the message stations of
House Sivis. The basic tool is the speaking stone,
which allows a dragonmarked operator to send a
short message to any other speaking stone. Sending
a message through the stones costs 1 gp for
every five words in the message and takes one
minute for every ten miles between the station
and the destination. The gnomes at the receiving
station will transcribe the message; for an extra
gold piece, they’ll have a courier deliver it to
the intended recipient. Most large communities
will have a message station, but small villages or
frontier towns may not.

The speaking stone network is the backbone of
communication, but if it’s not fast enough, there
is one more option. A Sivis enclave might have a
heir who can perform sending, which can send a
message instantly to any Sivis station—and even
allow a response, if the recipient is present and
waiting at the target station. If available, this
service generally costs 200 gp.

ENTERTAINMENT

While true bards are uncommon, magewright
entertainers learn to weave magic into their
performances. Illusion is a common tool, used
both to enhance a mundane performance or

as an art form in its own right. A gymnastic
performance might incorporate jump or feather fall.
The effects of the thaumaturgy cantrip—booming

CHAPTER 2 | THE MAGICAL ECONOMY
voice, influence flames, spontaneous sounds—are
a boon for any actor. In general, think of ways
that such low-level effects might be incorporated
into a performance.

The Dragonmarked Houses of Shadow
dominate the entertainment industry. House
Phiarlan operates west of the Mournland, while
House Thuranni is based in Karrnath and the
Lhazaar Principalities. Each house has its own
theatres, companies, and star performers, but
you don’t need a dragonmark to get into show
business; the houses train and license all manner
of artists and entertainers.

FASHION

When it comes to fashion, the most common
manifestation of magic is glamerweave: clothing
imbued with illusion. This can involve concrete
images, such as a cloak lined with glittering stars
or a gown with a pattern of flames; the wearer
might even be able to adjust the intensity of
these flames with a word. More elaborate (and
expensive) glamerweave could even produce the
effect of being wreathed in flames. However,
glamerweave can also have more abstract effects:
slowly shifting colors or a shimmering glow,

for example. Glamerweave can cost anywhere
from 10 to 200 gp depending on the effect; it’s
stylish, but certainly a sign of wealth. Zilargo and
Aundiair are the primary sources of glamerweave,
and competition between designers has grown in
recent years.

MEDICINE

The halflings of House Jorasco have long
dominated the business of healing. Most large
communities have a Jorasco healing house, and
even smaller communities often have a lone
Jorasco healer. The basic services provided by
Jorasco involve use of the Medicine skill and
herbal remedies. The next tier of treatment is
lesser restoration, offering immediate recovery from
disease for those willing to pay the price. Greater
restoration is possible if the house has an heir with
the Greater Mark of Healing, though this gift

--- PAGE 45 ---

can only be used once per day. House Jorasco is
also the primary source of healing potions; the
quantity and quality available will depend on the
size of the healing house.

House Jorasco demands payment before it
renders any service. The Church of the Silver
Flame and priests of Boldrei often maintain
charitable clinics, but most of these facilities only
provide mundane healing.

Resurrection is possible in Eberron, but it’s
rare. House Jorasco has a handful of altars
of resurrection, and someone with the Greater
Dragonmark of Healing and 5,000 gp worth
of dragonshards can use one of these altars to
perform raise dead. Beyond this, there’s a few
divine healers with the power to raise the dead.
But no one uses this power lightly. Regardless
of the method used, it’s hard to pull someone
back from Dolurrh, and it grows more difficult
with each day that passes after death. Opening
a channel to Dolurrh can potentially result in a
malevolent spirit taking possession of the body;
in a general release of hostile ghosts; or even a
marut inevitable manifesting and attacking the
spellcaster. All of which means that resurrection
is possible for player characters and exceptional
NPCs, but it’s not a reliable service for the
general public. Most of the time, when someone
dies, they stay dead.

TRANSPORTATION

All the standard modes of transportation can be
found in Khorvaire. People use boats, barges,
horses, coaches, and more. If something moves
over land it’s likely run or licensed by House
Orien. If it moves along the water or through
the air, it’s likely connected to House Lyrandar.
Both houses license independent agents, so the
captain of a mundane galleon won’t necessarily
be a Lyrandar heir, but the Lyrandar seal on

a licensed ship assures you of the quality of the
vessel and its crew. Eberron also features some
unique modes of transport.

--- PAGE 46 ---

46

Elemental galleons use bound water
elementals to increase the speed of the vessel.
These have long been the mainstay of House
Lyrandar; an elemental galleon can maintain
a speed of 20 miles per hour, more than twice
the speed of a mundane ship of similar size. The
cost of such travel is likewise twice the cost of a
normal journey.

The lightning rail of House Orien is the
gold standard for overland travel within the Five
Nations. An elemental engine pulls a train of
linked coaches over a path of conductor stones,
maintaining a speed of 30 miles per hour. The
rail links most of the major cities of the Five
Nations, though the destruction of Cyre has made
travel between eastern and western Khorvaire
more challenging. A journey on the lightning rail
generally costs twice as much as an inn stay of the
same duration, with quality ranging between the
modest coaches shared by most travelers (1 gp/
day) and the wealthy luxury coaches (4 gp/day).
People satisfied with squalid accomodations can
try to stow away on a cargo car, but Orien guards
discourage such behavior.

Elemental airships are the pride of House
Lyrandar, using bound air and fire elementals to
propel a vessel through the sky. Airships travel
between 20 to 40 miles per hour and have the
advantage of being able to cross any terrain.
Airships have only been in service for eight years,
and as a result many cities don’t yet have the
facilities required for docking or maintaining an
airship. However, airships are quickly becoming
the prefered method of travel for those who can
afford them. Airship travel generally costs five
times as much as an inn stay of the same quality
and duration.

Teleportation is the swiftest form of travel,
but also the most limited. An Orien heir with
the Greater Mark of Passage can cast teleportation
cucle once per day; most major Orien enclaves
have permanent circles and can be used as
destinations. When this service is available, it
generally costs 1,000 gp.

All of these forms of advanced travel require
someone with the appropriate dragonmark—
the Mark of Storm for elemental galleons and

CHAPTER 2 | THE MAGICAL ECONOMY
airships, or the Mark of Passage for the lightning
rail—to control the vessel. While it may be
possible to develop an airship that doesn’t require
a Lyrandar pilot, the Dragonmarked Houses are
quite protective of their monopolies.

WARFARE

Magic plays an important role on the battlefield.
House Cannith produces a wide range of siege
equipment and mystical weapons and made
a number of breakthroughs during the Last
War. Massive siege staffs fill the role of artillery.
Semi-sentient warforged titans scatter squads
of infantry. Kundarak sappers spread glyphs of
warding to deny a region to an enemy. Wands and
rods haven’t replaced the swords or bows, but
elite arcaneers are becoming more common.
The armies of Aundair specialize in the use
of magic and have the greatest numbers of
wandslingers. Karrnath has long been known
for its military discipline, but also became
infamous for its widespread use of undead
soldiers. Thrane is renowned for its peasant
archers and use of divine magic, thanks to its
fierce devotion to the Church of the Silver
Flame. Cyre relied heavily on mercenary
services—including the Valenar elves and the
goblins of Darguun—and fielded the greatest
number of warforged troops. Finally, Breland
had the best intelligence and industry of the
nations; it was also noted for the use of Zil
elemental weapons and for its floating fortresses.

Creatine Macic Items

House Cannith has an enclave devoted solely

to wand production. This facility is equipped
with tools that amplify the Mark of Making

and channel planar energies; the artisans also
have access to a vast array of exotic woods and
materials. You can also create a wand, but you’re
starting from scratch and creating the tools you
need. Essentially, when House Cannith creates
magic items, it’s using factories; while your
artificer is the equivalent of the tinkerer working
in the garage. You can create magic items, and

--- PAGE 47 ---

you can potentially create items that House
Cannith can’t make... but it’s going to take you
more time and gold than it takes for them. Here’s
an overview of the process.

The Schema. The first step in creating a
magic item is to acquire a schema for it. This is the
equivalent of a recipe or a blueprint; it explains
the process and components required to create
the item. If you can obtain a schema—from
House Cannith, the mystical library of Arcanix,
the collection of an experienced artificer—
you’re ready to move on. Otherwise, you can
create a schema, but this takes time and skill.

An arcane spellcaster uses Arcana to create
schema. A divine caster uses Religion, while

a druid or ranger relies on Nature. You must
have a minimum skill bonus—your proficiency
bonus plus your ability score bonus—in order
to develop a schema. You must maintain the
minimum skill bonus for the duration of your
work, so an effect that increases an ability score
for a few minutes won’t help you.

SCHEMA CREATION REQUIREMENTS
Item Rarity Workweeks Minimum Skill

Common 3 days +2
Uncommon 1 +4
Rare 3 +6
Very Rare 8 +8
Legendary 16 +10

This ability to develop a schema represents
remarkable talent. It could take House Cannith
years or decades to develop a particular schema;
the fact that you can accomplish this in weeks
reflects the idea that player characters are
innovators. However, it is always up to the
DM to decide if you can create a particular
schema. The DM can always choose to exclude a
particular magic item from a campaign.

Rare Components. Any magic item requires
specialized materials—Eberron dragonshards,
rare woods or metals, exotic herbs or other
substances. While exotic, these things can
be purchased or obtained in any major city.

But creating a magic item from scratch often
requires rarer components that can’t simply

be purchased. You might need a flower from
Thelanis, a feather from a couatl, or the scale

of a dragon. More often than not, such this will
require an adventure. You may not have to kill
something to obtain what you need, but you'll
surely have to overcome a challenge. The Magic
Item Ingredients table suggests how difficult that
challenge could be.

MAGIC ITEM INGREDIENTS

Item Rarity CR Range
Common 1-3
Uncommon 4-8

Rare 9-12
Very Rare 13-18
Legendary 19+

It’s possible to find a rare component even
when you’re not looking for one. You could
discover an exotic Khyber crystal in the ruins of
an artificer’s workshop. Time and study could
yield suggestions as to what items could be made
with the component; for example, that Khyber
shard could be used to create an iron flask or
dimensional shackles.

Creation. Once you have your schema and
any rare components, you're ready to begin. The
DM can assign skills or tools that are required
for this act of creation, so that it requires both
proficiency and access to these tools. You must
pay the basic costs of materials and services
required to make the item. And you must spend a
significant amount of time working on it; creating
a legendary item can take a year of effort!

MAGIC ITEM CRAFTING TIME AND COST

Item Rarity Work weeks* Cost*
Common 1 50 gp
Uncommon 2 200 gp
Rare 10 2,000 gp
Very Rare 25 20,000 gp
Legendary 20 100,000 gp

* Halved for a consumable item

CHAPTER 2 | THE MAGICAL ECONOMY

47

--- PAGE 48 ---

The Magic Item Crafting Time and Cost table
provides a basic framework, but various factors
could reduce time or cost. Eberron dragonshards
are a significant amount of the cost of materials.
A remarkable dragonshard could reduce the
cost of creating an item by 10 percent. A planar
convergence could reduce the time or cost
required to make an item with an effect tied to
that plane. Ultimately, this is a story, and there
are exceptions to every rule.

Complications. These rules for magic item
creation are derived from the system presented
in Xanathar’s Guide to Everything. This also offers
the idea that the creation of a magic item is a
complex procedure and that complications can
arise. If you use this rule, there’s a 10 percent
chance of a complication arising for every
five workweeks spent on crafting the item.
Xanathar’s Guide presents a number of possible
complications. Here are few tied to Eberron.

CRAFTING COMPLICATIONS

d6 Complication

1 A Dragonmarked House takes an
interest in your work. Do they
view you as a threat, or are they
impressed by your techniques? Do
they want to buy the item, and what
will happen if you refuse?

2 A mishap creates a temporary
manifest zone.
3 You need to acquire an additional

rare component.

4 The shifting balance of the planes
interferes with your work; you must
wait for the current planar alignment
to change.

5 Your efforts draw the attention of
one of the conspiracies of Eberron—
such as the Chamber, the Aurum, the
Emerald Claw, or the Lords of Dust.

6 Your item unexpectedly becomes
sentient.

48 CHAPTER 2 | FAITHS OF KHORVAIRE
FAITHS OF KHORVAIRE

Religion plays an important role in Eberron.
While gods don’t physically manifest as they

do in other settings, people of faith believe that
divine forces play a role in everyday life. Beyond
this, shared beliefs help to unite communities and
to provide hope in difficult times.

Appendix B of the Player’s Handbook provides
concrete details about the primary religions of
Eberron, including holy symbols and domains.
This section provides a more direct look at what
your faith means to you and how to reflect that
devotion through your actions.

In creating a devout character, it can be
useful to think about the source of your faith.
Were you brought up in your religion, or did
you come to it later in life? Are you primarily
devoted to the principles of your religion,
or have you had a personal, transcendental
experience? Do you believe that you have a
divine destiny to fulfill, or are you still waiting
for your purpose to be revealed?

CHOOSING ARCHETYPES

While the Player's Handbook provides a
baseline for domains, it doesn’t include
paladin oaths or archetypes from other
sources. As new options are always
emerging, there’s no way to create an
absolute list, and beyond that this is
something driven by a character’s story. The
Oath of Devotion is a logical archetype for
a paladin of the Silver Flame, but a zealous
paladin specifically devoted to pursuing evil
could easily take an Oath of Vengeance.
Likewise, the Forge domain should be an
option for priests of Onatar or the Traveler.
Consider your beliefs and your story and
choose an archetype that works with both.

--- PAGE 49 ---

THE CHURCH OF THE SILVER FLAME

¢ The Silver Fame is force of light holding
foul demons at bay. Those who seek to
defend the innocent from evil may draw on
the power of the Flame.

¢ Battle supernatural evil with steel, fire, and
magic. Every mortal soul can be guided
to the light. Inspire and guide others to
virtuous behavior; force is a last resort.

e Listen to the Voice of the Flame but
beware the deceiving whispers of the
Shadow in the Flame.

The Church of the Silver Flame has a disciplined
hierarchy with a martial aspect. Friars and
ministers seek to guide people to the light, while
templars defend them from evil.

Eberron is a place where supernatural evil is a
very real threat. Demons possess the innocent.
Vampires lurk in the shadows. Aberrations can
emerge from Khyber at any time. Zealots may
go too far in the pursuit of evil and priests may
be more concerned with mundane power than
faith. But the majority of those who follow the
Silver Flame stay true to its principles. They seek
to lead virtuous lives, to protect the weak, and to
guide the wicked to the light.

The Church is based in Thrane but its

followers are spread across Eberron.
; It’s up to you whether you support
. the theocracy of Thrane or
whether you feel that it’s a
mistake to draw the Church
into politics. A number of
variant sects worship the
Silver Flame; you can always
find your own path.
Archery is a devotional
practice of the Silver
Flame, used both as a
means of meditation and
a martial art.

The Silver Flame
THE SOVEREIGN Host

¢ The Sovereigns are with us at all times.
Onatar stands at every forge and Dol Dorn
is with you whenever blades are drawn.

¢ The Sovereigns shape the world. They
offer us guidance and strength, but we must
learn to listen.

¢ Honor each Sovereign in its place and time.
If you hear one voice clearly, embrace their
path and embody their values.

As a follower of the Sovereign Host, you believe
that the hand of the Sovereigns can be seen in
all things. What others take to be intuition or
instinct, you see as the voice of the Sovereigns
offering guidance. You don’t need absolute
proof: the fact that there is a bountiful harvest is
proof enough of Arawai’s benevolence.

The Sovereign Host has a looser structure than
the Church of the Silver Flame. Many variations
and subsects of the faith exist. Many temples are
only loosely aligned—in a small village, a skilled
smith might double as the priest because people
believe he’s close to Onatar. A midwife might be
seen as speaking for Arawai and Boldrei.

You may feel a particular connection to one
Sovereign and, as a divine spellcaster, this could
drive your choice of domain or oath. But as a
vassal (the common term for a follower of the
Host), you are expected to
respect and honor all of
the Sovereigns.

The Sovereign Host

CHAPTER 2 | FAITHS OF KHORVAIRE 49

--- PAGE 50 ---

The Dark Six

THE Dark Six

The Dark Six and the Sovereign Host are
opposite sides of the same coin. If you believe it
one you inherently believe in the other; the only
question is whether you fear or revere the Dark
Six. The principles of the faith are the same:
just like the Sovereigns, the Six are with us at all
times. They shape the world and speak to those
who will listen.

In general, the Sovereigns represent values
tied to civilization: Law, community, trade,
industry, agriculture, honor in war. The Dark
Six embody dangerous concepts: Death, chaos
and change, the destructive powers of nature,
treachery in battle, dark magic and monsters,
passion and madness. Those who worship the
Sovereigns fear these things; those who revere
the Six embrace them and don’t consider them
to be evil. If you’re a barbarian, it’s the Fury
who unleashes your rage. If you’re an assassin,
you walk the path of the Mockery as opposed to
that of Dol Arrah.

The creatures of Droaam generally revere the
Dark Six. Humanity sees the Shadow as a villain
who gave the harpy her voice and the medusa
her gaze; to the harpy and the medusa, this
makes the Shadow a hero.

50 CHAPTER 2 | FAITHS OF KHORVAIRE
THE Boop oF VoL

¢ Each one of us has a spark of divinity
within our blood and our spirit. Find that
power within.

¢ Death is the end, Dolurrh is oblivion, and
if the gods exist they are cruel. Stand with
those you care for; all we have is this life
and each other.

Because of its association with necromancy and
the undead, many people believe that the Blood
of Vol embraces death and that its followers
wish to become undead. Neither of these things
are true. The Seekers of the Divinity Within

(as the faithful call themselves) don’t revere the
undead; they believe that once someone has
died you might as well put the corpse to use.
But the spark of divinity is tied to both blood
and soul, and the Seekers believe that the
undead can never fully harness its power. The
vampires and mummies of the Blood of Vol
have sacrificed their chance at divinity in order
to guide and protect the living. They’re martyrs,
not something to envy.

Public opinion of the Blood of Vol is often
colored by the actions of the Order of the
Emerald Claw. This extremist sect serves a lich
known as the Queen of Death, and employs
undead and necromancy in acts of terror. Most
Seekers have no love for the Emerald Claw and
don’t support its actions.

The Blood af Val

--- PAGE 51 ---

THE Patu oF LIGHT

¢ We live in an age of darkness. We must find
the path that leads to the light.

e Act with compassion and courage. Each
noble act is a step on the path.

¢ Hone your body and your mind. You are
the tool you will use to change reality.

The Path of Light is the faith of the kalashtar and
has few followers in Khorvaire. A Lightspeaker
seeks to change realty—in the big picture by
ushering in an age of light, while on the small
scale by excising negative influences and
performing good works.

While compassion is important, there are those
among the followers of the Path of Light who
believe in taking surgical action to eliminate
sources of evil. Where followers of the Silver
Flame believe that all mortals can be brought to
the Flame, some who follow the Path of Light
believe that it’s more expedient to eliminate an
infection and to allow a soul to find the light in its
next incarnation.

The Path of Light
Tue Unpyine Court

¢ Our greatest champions and sages will
never be lost to us. Their wisdom guides us,
and their power protects us all.

¢ Honor our past. Respect our traditions.
Perfect your skills and you may earn your
place among the Deathless.

¢ Destroy those foul creatures that channel
the power of Mabar, for they consume the
essence of our world.

The elves of Aerenal refuse to allow their
greatest souls to be lost to Dolurrh. Using
powerful magic, they raise these champions
as deathless, a form

of undead imbued
with positive energy.
The Undying Court

is a council of the
deathless, ancient
elves who have guided
their descendants

for twenty thousand
years. As individuals, a

deathless councilor is
no more powerful than The Undying Court
a traditional lich. But
working in concert, the Undying Court creates
a pool of energy that empowers their divine
spellcasters.

Of all of these religions, the Undying Court
is the most grounded in reality. You can go to
Shae Mordai and seek an audience with the
Court. As a follower of the Undying Court,
consider why you are so far from home. Were
you sent from Aerenal with a mission? Is it for
the Court as a whole or are you acting as an
agent of a specific counselor—perhaps your own
ancestor? Followers of the Undying Court despise
negatively charged undead, so without a concrete
mission, one should seek to destroy the undead
and the necromancers who rouse them.

CHAPTER 2 | FAITHS OF KHORVAIRE

51

--- PAGE 52 ---

52

CuLts OF THE Dracon BELOW

There is a paradise within the world, a vale
bathed in the light of the Inner Sun. Earn
your passage with the blood of worthy foes.

¢ Our existence is a chrysalis state, preparmg
us for transcendent immortality within the
bowels of the Gibbering Mouther.

¢ The Lord of Eyes sees all secrets. His
gaze elevates the worthy and slays the
unbeliever. Drive all doubt from your heart
and you will see reality through new eyes.

The Cults of the Dragon Below are wildly
diverse. The tenets above describe the beliefs

of three different cults, and the image of the holy
symbol is one common example—a piece of
volcanic glass—not something shared by all
cults. There are warlocks who draw power from
demon overlords and daelkyr cultists who serve
mind flayers and beholders. Others are simply
driven by deep convictions that others see as
madness. Outsiders use the term “Cult of the
Dragon Below” as a blanket term to describe

all of these things, but the cultists themselves
don’t use this name or see themselves as part

of a greater whole. New cults can spring up
anywhere at any time, as a seed of madness takes
root and spreads.

If your character is part of a cult, work with the
DM to define your personal beliefs, along with
the size and scope of your cult. Does your faith
have wide support across the Shadow Marches?
Or are you and your family the only people who
share your particular beliefs?

CHAPTER 2 | DISTANT LANDS
Distant Lanps

This Wayfinder’s Guide focuses on the continent of
Khorvaire and the city of Sharn. But Khorvaire
is only one continent of many, and in time
adventurers may wish to explore distant lands.
Here is an overview of the other regions of
Eberron. If you wish to know more, refer to the
sources presented in the appendix.

AERENAL

In Aerenal, you might...
¢ Consult an elven archmage who’s been
dead for twenty thousand years.

¢ Battle sinister forces that have crawled into
Eberron from a realm of eternal night.

¢ Learn secrets of arcane magic unknown on
Khorvaire.

The massive island of Aerenal is the ancient
kingdom of the elves. Its jungles are a source
of strange and valuable lumbers: the soarwood
used for the hulls of airships, tough bronzewood,
even trees that remain alive after being felled.
Beyond this, the island is close to the planes of
Irian and Mabar... allowing the lines between
life and death to become blurred. This can be
dangerous, with dark forces creeping in from the
plane known as the Endless Night. But it’s also
allowed the elves to perform feats of necromancy
unmatched in Eberron. Among the Aereni elves,
the honored dead walk among the living. Heroes
who died in glorious battle return to serve the
Sibling Kings. And in the depths of Shae Mordai,
the deathless lords of the Undying Court study
the shifting balance of the planes and the path of
the Draconic Prophecy.

While necromancy is a pillar of Aereni
society, it isn’t the dark force you’re used to.
The deathless undead of Aerenal are sustained
by posttwe energy—the light of Irian and the
devotion freely given by their descendants. The
elves of Aerenal despise necromancy that draws
on the negative energy of Mabar, and agents of
the Undying Court are charged to seek out and
destroy vampires, liches, and other such undead.

--- PAGE 53 ---

ed | House Sv
ma True an

Barren Se.

Aereni civilization 1s over twenty thousand
years old. They’ve watched nations of goblins
and humans rise and fall, secure in their island
sanctuary. The Aereni possess many secrets and
powers the Five Nations have yet to discover.
But the elves are more interested in practicing
and perfecting these ancient traditions than in
innovation and discovery. An Aereni wizard
might spend a decade refining the pronunciation
of a single spell’s incantation. For now humanity
can’t match the power of the elves. If that balance
begins to change, will Aerenal take action?
YRIONS
5 PRESENTS
AccunaTe

ARGONNESSEN

In Argonnessen, you could...
¢ Clash with tribes of dragon-worshipping
barbarians.

e Explore an ancient city of dragons.
e Discover mighty artifacts and epic spells.

Argonnessen is home to the oldest civilization
on Eberron. The dragons wield epic magic, and
their homeland is shielded against divination and
teleportation. Tribes of barbarians roam Seren
Islands and the coastlines of Argonnessen; these
include members of almost every humanoid
race, perhaps collected by dragons in ages past.
These Seren barbarians worship the dragons
and protect the coasts from invaders. To date,
no one from the Five Nations has ever ventured
into the interior of the continent and returned to
speak of it.

CHAPTER 2 | DISTANT LANDS 53

--- PAGE 54 ---

54

No one knows just how many dragons there
are in Argonnessen, but people tell stories of
vast cavern complexes filled with the treasures
of fallen civilizations, of prisons holding bound
demons, of cities made from diamond and
adamantine. Is there any truth to these tales, or is
it all myth?

EVERICE AND THE FROSTFELL

In Everice or the Frostfell, you might...
¢ Discover an ancient civilization hidden
beneath the ice.

¢ Search for the survivors of a lost expedition.

¢ Find the source ofa mysterious mystical
signal,

The poles of Eberron are almost as mysterious
as Argonnessen. Some dwarves believe that
their ancestors originally came to Khorvaire
from the Frostfell, but there’s been no contact
with Frostfell dwarves in modern times. Legends
speak of undead hordes, free-roaming fiends, and
terrifying monsters in these arctic lands.

SARLONA

In Sarlona, you could...
¢ Infiltrate an empire ruled by
psychic overlords.

¢ Defend an ancient mountain

monastery.
¢ Disable a monolith used to control »
the dreams of a city. oY
Tens of thousands of years ago, the ‘

vast content of Sarlona was the
cradle of human civilization. Three
thousand years ago, the first human
colonists set forth from Sarlona,
setting in motion the events that
would shape modern-day Khorvaire.
Once Sarlona was home to over

a dozen distinct kingdoms, but

today only two established nations

CHAPTER 2 | DISTANT LANDS
remain: the mighty empire of Riedra and the
mountain sanctuary of Adar. Riedra is ruled by
the Inspired, humans tied to extraplanar spirits
and imbued with psychic powers. Adar is the
homeland of the Kalashtar. Riedra maintains an
endless siege of Adar, and both nations have little
contact with Khorvaire.

XEN DRIK

In Xen’drik, you could...
¢ Seek to destroy ancient mystical weapons
before they fall into the hands of villains.
¢ Battle savage giants in the ruins of their
ancient cities.

¢ Match wits with cunning drow in the
depths of a primordial jungle.

--- PAGE 55 ---

In the distant past, Xen’drik was home to the
civilizations of the giants. Now it is a place of
mysteries and ruins. The giants were destroyed
by the dragons of Argonnessen, and the epic
magics unleashed in that battle warped the land.
Space and time are unreliable in Xen’drik. But
it is a land that holds untold treasures, and the
richest source of rare Siberys dragonshards. In
addition to savage giants, Xen’drik is home to
the enigmatic drow and many other races and
creatures never seen in Khorvaire.

The port city of Stormreach serves as the
gateway to Xen’drik. It’s proven difficult to
maintain colonies within Xen’drik, though the
end of the Last War has created a new interest in
exploration.

EXOTIC MAGIC?

One idea suggested in this chapter is that
explorers can discover mystical secrets in
distant lands. But what does that mean?
How do you give the Aereni elves or giants
of Xen’drik spells no one has seen before?

Spells and magic items are constantly
being introduced in new sourcebooks and
online content. One option is for a DM to limit
access to some or all of this new material. If
a player wants to use a spell from Xanathar’s
Guide to Everything, they have to find it.
When a character has an opportunity to learn
new magic—whether by studying with a
member of the Undying Court or reading the
crumbling pages of a giant’s spellbook—the
DM can allow them to exchange an existing
spell for a new spell.

This applies to arcane magic as well as
divine. The Silver Flame is worshipped
in many different ways around the world,
and the giants had their own form of the
Sovereign Host; while exploring an ancient
temple, a cleric could learn new ways to
invoke the power of the divine.
EBERRON: ABOVE AND BEYOND

While planar travel is uncommon, it can help to
have an understanding of Eberron’s cosmology
and how the influence of the planes can affect
your story.

THE MATERIAL PLANE

Eberron is the heart of the material plane. It
is surrounded by the Ring of Siberys, a band
of golden dragonshards. Beyond this, twelve
moons orbit the world. To date, no creature from
Eberron has ever explored the moons. None can
say whether they are lifeless rocks or thriving
worlds in their own right. Some sages believe that
the moons are actually connected to the planes,
or that they might even be physical extensions of
the planes, but this remains a mystery.

To date, no other planets have been discovered
within Eberron’s material plane. However,
the underworld of Khyber contains a host of
demiplanes: tiny pockets of reality that exist
within the underworld. As such, venturing below
the surface of Eberron can lead you to a network
of caverns and passages... but if you find the
right passage, it can take you to fantastic and
deadly worlds inhabited by fiends, aberrations,
and other children of Khyber. This is one way
to adapt material from Out of the Abyss and
Mordenkainen’s Tome of Foes to Eberron. There
may be realms of demons and devils deep within
Khyber, long held at bay by the influence of
Siberys and the Silver Flame.

THE PLANES OF EBERRON

The material plane is enfolded by thirteen
planes of existence. Many of these have aspects
of both outer and inner planes. All of the planes
overlap with Eberron in some way, and they
influence and are influenced by the material
plane. This influence waxes and wanes; scholars
often depict the planes as orbiting Eberron,
though this purely a metaphor for their shifting

CHAPTER 2 | EBERRON: ABOVE AND BEYOND 55

--- PAGE 56 ---

56

THE REGION
OF DREAMS

DOLURRH
THE REALM OF
THE DEAD

FERNIA
THE SEA OF FIRE

influence. When the influence of a plane is
especially strong it is said to be coterminous.
When its influence is weak, a plane is remote.
These states can be important for epic rituals,
the creation of eldritch machines or interaction
with extraplanar entities. There are also manifest
zones: places in the material plane where the
barriers are thin and where some aspects of a
plane can bleed through. Ghosts may linger in a
manifest zone to Dolurrh, while a manifest zone
tied to Lamannia might have wild vegetation
and enhance druidic magic.

Daanvi: The Perfect Order. Daanvi
embodies the ideas of law and order, civilization
and discipline. It is filled with perfect cities and
carefully ordered fields, with immortal courts and
endless archives holding every law ever imagined.

CHAPTER 2 | EBERRON: ABOVE AND BEYOND
(>) LAMAN

A THE TWILDHT FOREST
a :

(

e
XORIAT
THE REALM OF
MADNESS

SHAVARATH
wraps KD

THELANIS
THE FAERIE COURT

Dal Quor: The Region of Dreams. With
a few exceptions (such as elves, kalashtar, and
warforged), mortal creatures touch Dal Quor
when they dream. The outer fringes of the plane
are morphic and shaped by the memories and
experiences of dreamers. There is a dark core at
the heart of the plane, shaped by the nightmare
force known as the Dreaming Dark. For reasons
unknown to the general populace, Dal Quor is
always remote and only touched in dreams.

Dolurrh: The Realm of the Dead. When
a mortal soul dies, it is drawn to Dolurrh. It is a
place defined by despair and apathy; over time,
memories are leached out of the trapped spirits
until only a husk remains. While this seems bleak,
most religions maintain that Dolurrh isn’t the
end; it is a gateway to whatever lies beyond. Such

--- PAGE 57 ---

faiths assert that what appears to be dissolution is
the natural process of the soul moving to a higher
plane of existence that mortals can never touch:
joining with the Sovereigns, merging with the
Silver Flame, or simply rejoining the cycle of life
in a new form. Nonetheless, Dolurrh is a gloomy
plane filled with the lingering traces of the dead.
When Dolurrh is remote it is impossible to
resurrect the dead. When it’s coterminous ghosts
become more common. Resurrection spells are
easier to perform, but carry the risk of bringing
back unwanted spirits.

Fernia: The Sea of Fire. This plane
encompasses both the raw elemental force of fire
and the zdea of fire: flame used as a weapon, as a
force that holds darkness at bay, as a destructive
power and force for change. It is home to all
manner of fire elementals and also to celestials
and fiends that embody these ideas.

Irian: The Eternal Dawn. A plane of light
and hope, Irian is the source of positive energy in
Eberron.

Kythri: The Churning Chaos. The plane
of chaos and change, Kythri is a morphic realm
in constant flux.

Lamannia: The Twilight Forest. While
it is called a “Forest”, Lamannia embodies
primordial nature, and contains every possible
natural environment. It is home to massive
beasts, lycanthropes, elementals, and other things
that reflect the power of nature.

Mabar: The Endless Night. Mabar is the
darkness that hungers to consume light and life.
It is the source of negative energy in Eberron,
and largely serves the same role as the Shadowfell
in the core cosmology.

Risia: The Plain of Ice. The counterpart of
Fernia, Risia embodies water, winter, and all the
ideas that can be embodied by them.
Shavarath: The Battleground. This is the
plane of war, and it is gripped by a conflict that
will never end. Armies of fiends and celestials
have fought in Shavarath since the dawn of time,
asserting that their struggles are reflected in the
balance of good and evil across all reality.

Syrania: The Azure Sky. Crystal spires
float in a perfect blue sky. Farms and calm
communities stretch across clouds. This is
the plane of peace and all things that flourish
in times of peace. This includes commerce;
the Immeasurable Market of Syrania draws
merchants and travelers from across reality.

Thelanis: The Faerie Court. Similar to
the Feywild of the core cosmology, Thelanis is
the plane of stories and the home of the fey. It
is one of the easiest planes to reach, and many
tales begin with a hero unintentionally crossing
into Thelanis.

Xoriat: The Realm of Madness. Xoriat is
ahen, the plane of things that are fundamentally
unnatural. It challenges ideas of what is possible.
Some can look upon Xoriat and see it as a place
of revelations; but most mortals who come to
close to Xoriat fall prey to madness. Xoriat is
the source of many aberrations, along with the
terrifying daelkyr.

AsTRAL AND ETHEREAL

The planes of Eberron are bound together in
their own cosmology. But the astral and ethereal
planes surround and enfold them, functioning
exactly as they do in the core cosmology. If

you wish to facilitate contact between Eberron
and other settings, passage through the Deep
Ethereal is the simplest way to accomplish it. The
potential impact of contact between Eberron and
other realms is discussed in chapter 1.

CHAPTER 2 | EBERRON: ABOVE AND BEYOND 57

--- PAGE 58 ---

CELESTIALS, Gops, AND FIENDS

Eberron has no parallel to the gods of other
settings. It’s possible that the Progenitor
Dragons were such beings, but many assume
that the Progenitor Dragons are entirely
metaphorical. As an Eberron DM, you decide
the truth of this.

The people of Eberron believe their gods are
omnipresent—not bound to a single coherent
form but rather present in all places at all times.
If you revere the Silver Flame, its power is
always with you. The Sovereign Onatar guides
the hand of every smith if they know how to
listen for his voice, and Dol Arrah and Dol
Dorn are present on every battlefield, guiding
every soldier.

This means religion is driven by faith as
opposed to the concrete actions of deities. The
faithful belzeve that their triumphs reflect the
hand of the divine. They don’t expect a god to
physically show up and solve their problems.

Fiends and celestials certainly exist, however.
Some have powers rivalling deities in other
settings. Extraplanar immortals are generally
invested in the own planes and have little
interest in Eberron. There are demons and
archons battling in Shavarath, but they’ve been
fighting one another since before humanity
existed and they can’t leave their posts to fool
around in Eberron. Rare exceptions occur,
such as the Daelkyr or the Dreaming Dark, but
extraplanar immortals are mostly concerned
with ther planes.

As such, player characters are more likely to
encounter native immortals on Eberron: spirits
spawned by Khyber or Siberys.

The Overlords are the most powerful native
fiends. A few of the best-known Overlords:

58 CHAPTER 2 | EBERRON: ABOVE AND BEYOND
¢ Bel Shalor, the Shadow in the Flame.
A spirit of corruption, Bel Shalor is said
to be bound in the temple-citadel of
Flamekeep. It whispers to all those who
follow the Silver Flame, trying to lead them
astray.

¢ Rak Tulkhesh, the Rage of War. The
embodiment of aggression, Rak Tulkhesh
feeds of hatred and drives mortals to battle.

¢ Sul Khatesh, the Keeper of Secrets. A
spirit of forbidden knowledge, Sul Khatesh
possesses a wealth of arcane secrets and
hidden knowledge... but her secrets
inevitably lead to tragedy.

When adapting evil gods or archfiends to
Eberron, one option is to make them Overlords.
For example, Tiamat could be an Overlord
embodying the pride and potential for evil within
dragons, while Lolth could be an Overlord who
preys on the elves.

The rakshasa are the most common native
fiends. They still scheme in the shadows, seeking
to free their Overlords. However, any fiend—any
devil, demon, or other evil immortal—could be
a spawned by Khyber if it suits your story. Such
fiends may be bound to an Overlord, or they may
be independent incarnations of evil unleashed on
the world. The most powerful fiends are bound
by the same powers that hold the Overlords at
bay, and interacting with or summoning such a
creature requires the use of magic.

What about native celestials? The primary
celestials of Eberron are the couatl. However, in
the dawn of time the vast majority of Eberron’s
celestials sacrificed themselves to bind the
overlords. This is why Eberron needs heroes.
The Silver Flame holds the essence of this power,
but it takes a mortal champion to wield it.

--- PAGE 59 ---

CHAPTER 3: RACES OF EBER

The Bazaar in Sharn is flooded with merchants

and customers. An Aerent elf scowls behind a golden
deathmask as she argues with a dwarf merchant.

As a Talenta halfling makes his way through the
crowd, people scramble to get out of the way of the
barbarian’s reptilian mount. One creature holds his
ground—a tall figure formed from steel and leather,
who glares at the halfling with gleaming crystal eyes.
This warforged spent twenty years on the battlefield,
and it has no fear of the halfling warrior. Neither one
noticed the changeling who stole the halflings purse,
but she alters her features anyway, taking the form of
an old man as she moves around the corner.

BERRON CAN BE HOME TO ANY OF THE
creatures found across the multiverse
of DuNGEoNS & Dracons. Humans,
gnomes, elves, and orcs have all
made their marks on the continent
of Khorvaire. However, the creatures of Eberron
can be quite different from their counterparts on
other worlds. The orcs of Eberron include druids
and paladins who fight to defend the world from
demons and aberrations. The Valenar elves are
RON

fierce warriors, and the Talenta halflings are brave
nomads who cross the plains on dinosaur mounts.
This chapter provides an overview of the
common races and their role in the world. It
also presents four new races that were originally
developed for the Eberron campaign setting.
¢ Changelings are clever shapeshifters that
can disguise themselves as members of
other races. Exceptional spies and rogues,
they live in the shadows of humanity.

¢ Kalashtar are humans bound to spirits
from the plane of dreams, imbued with
wisdom and telepathic talent.

¢ Shifters draw on their distant lycanthropic
heritage to manifest bestial traits for short
periods of time. A diverse race shaped by
the beasts within them, shifters often prefer
the wilds to the civilized world.

¢ Warforged are artificial lifeforms built to
fight in the Last War. Created as tools of
battle, they must now find their place and
purpose beyond the war.

59

--- PAGE 60 ---

60

CHANGELINGS

Long ago there was a woman named Fes, and she had o
children. Her rwals conspired against her and swore to |
children. Fes begged the Sovereigns for help, but ther ont
was the wind and rain. In the depths of her despair, a I
traveler took her hand. T will protect your children if the
my path. Let them wander the world. They may be shun
and feared, but they will never be destroyed.’ Fes agreed,
the traveler gave her his cloak. When she draped it over |
children thew old faces melted away and they could be uw
they wanted to be. And so it remains. Though the Child
shunned by all, the gift of the Traveler protects them stil

—Chance, changeling

A changeling can shift its face and form with a
thought. Many changelings use this gift as a form
of artistic and emotional expression, but it’s an
invaluable tool for grifters, spies, and others who
wish to deceive. This leads many people to treat
known changelings with fear and suspicion.

HIDDEN PEOPLE

Wherever humans can be found, there are
changelings; the question is whether their
presence is known.

Changelings are born to one of three paths.
A few are raised in stable communities where
changelings are true to their nature and deal
openly with the people around them. Some are
orphans, raised by other races, who find their
way in the world without ever knowing another
like themselves. Others are part of nomadic
changeling clans spread across the Five Nations
who keep their true nature hidden from the
single-skins. Some clans maintain safe havens in
major cities and communities, but most prefer to
wander the unpredictable path of the Traveler.

In creating a changeling adventurer, consider
the character’s relationships with people around
them. Does the character conceal their true
changeling nature? Do they embrace it? Do they
have connections to other changelines or are they
alone and in search of companions?

CHAPTER 3 | CHANGELINGS
ne hundred
cull her

ly answer
mely

y follow
ned
and
her
hoever
yen are

,

priest

MAsKs
AND PERSONAS

In their natural form changelings are slender and
pale, with colorless eyes and silver-white hair.

A changeling can alter its physical appearance
with a thought. While this can be used to deceive
others, it is a natural form of expression for the
changeling. A changeling shifts shapes the way
others might change clothes. A casual shape—one
created on the spur of the moment, with no depth
or history—is called a mask. A mask can be used
to express a mood or to serve a specific purpose
and then never used again. However, many
changelings develop identities that have more
depth. They build an identity over time, crafting
a persona with a history and beliefs. This focused
identity helps a changeling pinpomt a particular
skill or emotion. A changeling adventurer might
have personas for many situations, including
negotiation, investigation, and combat. Personas
can be shared by multiple changelings; there
might be three healers in a community, but

--- PAGE 61 ---

whoever is on duty will adopt the persona of
Tek, the kindly old medic. Personas can even

be passed down through a family, allowing a
younger changeling to take advantage of contacts
established by previous users of the persona.

CHANGELING NAMES

A changeling might use a different name for
each mask and persona and adopt new names
as easily as they develop new faces. The true
name of a changeling tends to be simple and
monosyllabic; however, there are often accents
to a changeling’s name that are expressed
through shapeshifting, something single-skins
will likely miss. So, two changelings might have
the name Jin, but one is Fin-with-vwid-blue-eyes
and one is fin-with-golden-cheeks .

Changelings have a fluid relationship with
gender, seeing it as one characteristic to change
among many others.

Changeling Names: Bin, Cas, Dox, Fie,
Hars, Jin, Lam, Mas, Nix, Ot, Paik, Ruz, Sim,
Toox, Vil, Yug.

CHANGELING TRAITS

Your changeling character has the following traits.
Ability Score Increase. Your Charisma
score increases by 2, and either your Dexterity or
your Intelligence increases by | (your choice).
Age. Changelings mature slightly faster than
humans but share a similar lifespan—typically a
century or less. While a changeling can shapeshift
to conceal their age, the effects of aging still catch
up to them.
Alignment. Changelings hate to be bound
in any way, and those who follow the path of
the Traveler believe that chaos and change
are important aspects of life. Most tend toward
pragmatic neutrality as opposed to being
concerned with lofty ideals. Despite common
fears, few changelings embrace evil.
Size. In their natural forms, changelings
average between 5 to 6 feet in height, with a
slender build. Your size is Medium.
Speed. Your base walking speed is 30 feet.

Change Appearance. As an action, you can
transform your appearance or revert to your
natural form. You can’t duplicate the appearance
of a creature you’ve never seen, and you revert to
your natural form if you die.

You decide what you look like, including your
height, weight, facial features, the sound of your
voice, coloration, hair length, sex, and any other
distinguishing characteristics. You can make
yourself appear as a member of another race,
though none of your game statistics change. You
also can’t appear as a creature of a different size
than you, and your basic shape stays the same; if
you’re bipedal, you can’t use this trait to become
quadrupedal, for instance. Your clothing and
other equipment don’t change in appearance,
size, or shape to match your new form, requiring
you to keep a few extra outfits on hand to make
the most compelling disguise possible.

Even to the most astute observers, your ruse is
usually indiscernible. If you rouse suspicion, or if
a wary creature suspects something is amiss, you
have advantage on any Charisma (Deception)
check you make to avoid detection.

Changeling Instincts. You gain proficiency
with two of the following skills of your choice:
Deception, Intimidation, Insight, and Persuasion.

Unsettling Visage. When a creature you can
see makes an attack roll against you, you can
use your reaction to impose disadvantage on the
roll. You must use this feature before knowing
whether the attack hits or misses.

Using this trait reveals your shapeshifting
nature to any creature within 30 feet that can
see you. Once you use this trait, you can’t use it
again until you finish a short or long rest.

Divergent Persona. You gain proficiency
with one tool of your choice. Define a unique
identity associated with that proficiency; establish
the name, race, gender, age, and other details.
While you are in the form of this persona, the
related proficiency bonus is doubled for any
ability check you make that uses that proficiency.

Languages. You can speak, read, and write
Common and two other languages of your choice.

CHAPTER 3 | CHANGELINGS

61

--- PAGE 62 ---

62

KALASHTAR

Lam kalashtar, born of two worlds. Over a thousand yea
ancestor bound her bloodline to the spirit Kashta, and I a
of that union. Kashtat moves within me. Her memories co
dreams, and at times her voice whispers in the silence of m
long as at least one of my sisters ts alwe, Kashtat will sur
as long as she lives, she will fight il-Lashtavar.

—Lakashtai, servant of t

The kalashtar are a compound race created
from the union of humanity and renegade spirits
from the plane of dreams—spirits called quori.
Kalashtar are often seen as wise, spiritual people
with great compassion for others. But there is

an unmistakable alien quality to the kalashtar,

as they are haunted by the conflicts of their
otherworldly spirits.

Bounb To Spirits

Every kalashtar has a connection to a spirit of
light, shared by other members of their bloodline.
Kalashtar appear human, but the spiritual
connection affects them in a variety of ways.
Kalashtar have symmetrical, slightly angular
features. The eyes of a kalashtar often glow when
it is focused on a task or feeling strong emotions.

The kalashtar can’t directly communicate
with their quori spirits. A kalashtar might
experience this relationship as a sense of instinct
and inspiration, drawing on the memories of
the spirit when they dream. This connection
grants kalashtar minor psionic abilities, as well
as protection from psychic attacks. All of these
dream-spirits are virtuous, but some are warriors
and others are more contemplative. Work
together with the DM to determine the nature of
the linked spirit. Typically, a kalashtar knows the
name and nature of their spirit, but for some—
for instance, an orphan kalashtar raised among
outsiders—may know nothing of their spirit or the
source of their psychic gifts.

The bond to the spirit can cause some kalashtar
to display unusual quirks of behavior. You can
roll or select a trait from the following table.

CHAPTER 3 | CHANGELINGS
rs ago, my
m a child
me to me in
yy mind. As
ywe—and

he light

KALASHTAR QUIRKS
1d10 Quirk

1 You try to understand the motives and
feelings of your enemies.

2 You prefer using telepathy over speaking
aloud.

3 You feel a strong drive to protect the
innocent.

4 You apply dream logic to mundane
situations.

5 You discuss things out loud with your
quori spirit.

6 You suppress your emotions and rely on
logic.

7 You are strongly influenced by the
emotions of those around you.

8 You prefer to find nonviolent solutions to
problems whenever possible.

9 You are driven by a warrior spirit and will
fight for any noble cause.

10  Youare obsessed with Dreaming Dark
conspiracies.

Huntep BY NIGHTMARES

The virtuous spirits tied to the kalashtar fled from
the dream-realm of Dal Quor to escape evil spirits

--- PAGE 63 ---

that dominate the realm. The rebel quori believe
that through meditation and devotion, they can
change the fundamental nature of Dal Quor,
shifting the balance from darkness to light. Most
kalashtar communities focus on acts of devotion
known as the Path of Light. But the dark powers
of Dal Quor have their own plans on Eberron.
Through the force known as the Dreaming Dark,
these monsters manipulate the folk of Khorvaire to
eliminate kalashtar whenever possible.

Many kalashtar defend themselves from the
Dreaming Dark by focusing on devotion to the
Path of Light but some among the kalashtar seek
out the agents of the Dreaming Dark and oppose
their plans, or protect the innocent however
they can. Some kalashtar grow up isolated from
others, knowing nothing about Dal Quor or the
Dreaming Dark. Such orphans may use their
abilities for personal gain or otherwise act against
the virtuous instincts of their quori spirits; this can
cause internal conflicts and violent mood swings.

KALASHTAR NaMEs

A kalashtar name mixes a personal prefix to the
name of the quori spirit within the kalashtar. Each
spirit has a gender identity, but this might not
match the gender identity of the kalashtar host.
A female kalashtar may have what others would
consider a masculine name, because she’s tied to a
spirit with a masculine identity. Kalashtar orphans
are unlikely to know the name of their spirit and
take names from another source.

Male Quori Names: Hareth, Khad, Kosh,
Melk, Tash, Ulad, Vash

Female Quori Names: Ashana, Ashtai,
Ishara, Nari, Tana, Tari, Vakri

Kalashtar Names: Coratash, Dalavash,
Dolishara, Halakosh, Khoratari, Koratana,
Lanhareth, Molavakri, Nevitash, Sorashana,
Torashtai, Valakhad, Vishara

KALASHTAR TRAITS

Your kalashtar character has the following traits.
Ability Score Increase. Your Wisdom and
Charisma scores both increase by 1. In addition,

one ability score of your choice increases by 1.
Age. Kalashtar develop physically at the same
rate as humans do and have similar lifespans.

Alignment. The noble spirit tied to a
kalashtar drives it toward lawful and good
behavior. Most kalashtar combine strong self-
discipline with compassion for all sentient beings,
but some kalashtar resist the virtuous influence of
their spirit.

Size. Kalashtar are similar in build to humans,
though they are typically a few inches taller.
Your size is Medium.

Speed. Your base walking speed is 30 feet.

Dual Mind. When you make a Wisdom
saving throw, you can use your reaction to gain
advantage on the roll. You can use this trait
immediately before or after you roll, but before
any of the roll’s effects occur.

Mental Discipline. You have resistance to
psychic damage.

Mind Link. You can speak telepathically
to any creature you can see within 60 feet
of you. You don’t need to share a language
with the creature for it to understand your
telepathic messages, but the creature must be
able to understand at least one language or be
telepathic itself.

As a bonus action when you’re speaking
telepathically to a creature, you can give that
creature the ability to speak telepathically to
you until the start of your next turn. To use this
ability, the creature must be within 60 feet of you
and be able to see you.

Psychic Glamour. Choose one of
the following skills: Insight, Intimidation,
Performance, or Persuasion. You have advantage
on all ability checks you make with that skill.

Severed from Dreams. Kalashtar sleep,
but they don’t connect to the plane of dreams
as other creatures do. Instead, their minds draw
from the memories of their otherworldly spirit
while they sleep. As such, you are immune to
magical spells and effects that require you to
dream, like the dream spell, but not to spells and
effects that put you to sleep, like the sleep spell.

Languages. You can speak, read, and write
Common, Quori, and one other language of
your choice.

CHAPTER 3 | CHANGELINGS

63

--- PAGE 64 ---

SHIFTERS

Geth’s ancient heritage rose up from deep within him, spre
Jrom the core of his being. Some shifters manifested terribl
others massive fangs, still others astounding speed or heigh
senses. Geth’s gift from his lycanthrope ancestors was shee
toughness. Strength seeped into his bones and flooded his
flesh. Hts skin hardened, and his hair became coarse

like an animal’s tough hide. A sense of invincibility
Spread through him. For the moment at least, he felt
unstoppable!

—Don Bassingthwaite,
The Binding Stone

Shifters are sometimes called the weretouched,
as many believe that they are the descendants of
humans and lycanthropes. They are humanoids
with a bestial aspect; while they cannot fully
change shape they can temporarily enhance their
animalistic features—a state they call shifting.
Whatever their origins, shifters have evolved into
a unique race. A shifter walks on the knife’s edge
between the wilds and the world around them.
Do they embrace their primal instincts or the
path of civilization?

THE Beast WITHIN

Early in childhood, a shifter forms a bond with
a beast within: a totemic force that shapes their
body and mind. Some shifters believe that these
spirits are independent entities, and they may
speak of Bear or Wolf as ancestors or guides.
Most just see the beast within as a formidable
expression of their inner nature, something that
emerges over time as the shifter’s personality
takes shape. The beast within is a pool of
powerful instincts, and its influence is revealed
by a shifter’s personality: a feline shifter may be
cool and distant, driven by predatory instincts,
while a shifter with a lupine spirit is drawn to
find and protect a pack. When a shifter fully
embraces this beast within they physically
transform for a short time.

64 CHAPTER 3 | SHIFTERS
ading out
e claws,
tened

This beast within is reflected by the shifter’s
subrace. Four subraces are especially common:

¢ Beasthide often signifies the bear or boar:
stoic, stubborn and thick-skinned.

¢ Longtooth shifters typically have lupine
traits and prefer to run with a pack.

¢ Swiftstride are often predatory and feline,
but a swiftstride could also be a cunning rat
who darts through the shadows.

¢ Wildhunt shifters are born from any
creature that tracks its prey.

While the beast within certainly has a physical
impact on a shifter, it has a spiritual and
psychological effect. Two beasthide shifters share
the same special ability, but if one has the aspect
of the boar and the other is more like a bear,
they'll be quite different in personality. With any
shifter, identifying the beast within is a crucial
part of understanding the character.

--- PAGE 65 ---

SIMILAR AND DIVERSE

Shifters are similar to humans in height and build
but are more naturally lithe and flexible. Their
facial features have a bestial cast, with large eyes,
flat noses, and pointed ears; most shifters also
have prominent canine teeth. They grow fur-like
hair on nearly every part of their bodies.

The traits of the beast within affect a shifter’s
appearance as well. A swiftstride shifter may
have catlike eyes and delicate build, while a
beasthide shifter might be a massive brute built
like a bear. While a shifter’s appearance might
remind an onlooker of an animal, they remain
clearly identifiable as shifters even when at their
most feral.

THE JouRNEY YET T0 CoME

Shifters have a strong presence in the Eldeen
Reaches, and they often live among humans
and can be found in rural areas across
Khorvaire. While they form powerful bonds

to friends and kin, shifters place great value on
self-reliance and freedom. It’s a shifter proverb
to “always be prepared for the journey yet to
come,” and most shifters strive to be ready for
change or opportunity.

Shifters have a natural inclination toward
classes with a primal connection. A shifter
barbarian draws their rage from the beast within.
A shifter ranger indulges their urge to wander
and hunt. A shifter rogue harnesses their own
predatory instincts. But shifters can pursue any
path or faith.

SHIFTER NAMES

Shifters have no language of their own and

often live in blended communities. Their names
typically overlap with the names of other cultures
in their region. Many shifters prefer to keep

their personal names for their friends and use
“wandering names” with strangers. These are
usually tied to a physical or personality trait.
Shifter Names: Badger, Bear, Cat, Fang,
Grace, Grim, Moon, Rain, Red, Scar, Stripe,
Swift, Talon, Whiskers, Wolf.

SHIFTER TRAITS

Your shifter character has the following traits.

Ability Score Increase. Your Dexterity
score increases by 1.

Age. Shifters are quick to mature both
physically and emotionally, reaching young
adulthood at age 10. They rarely live to be more
than 70 years old.

Alignment. Shifters tend toward neutrality,
being more focused on survival than concepts of
good and evil. A love of personal freedom can
drive shifters toward chaotic alignments.

Size. Shifters range from 5 to almost 7 feet
tall, depending on their subrace. Your size is
Medium.

Speed. Your base walking speed is 30 feet.

Darkvision. You have superior vision in dark
and dim conditions. You can see in dim light
within 60 feet of you as if it were bright light,
and in darkness as if it were dim light. You can’t
discern color in darkness, only shades of gray.

Keen Senses. You have proficiency with the
Perception skill.

Shifting. As a bonus action, you can assume
a more bestial appearance. This transformation
lasts for 1 minute, until you die, or until you
revert to your normal appearance as a bonus
action. When you shift, you gain temporary hit
points equal to your level + your Constitution
modifier (minimum of | temporary hit point).
You also gain additional benefits that depend on
your shifter subrace, described below.

Once you shift, you can’t do so again until you
finish a short or long rest.

Languages. You can speak, read, and write
Common.

Subrace. The beast within shapes each shifter
physically and mentally. Four major subraces
of shifter are found among the worlds of D&D:
Beasthide, Longtooth, Swiftstride, and Wildhunt.
Choose one of these subraces.

CHAPTER 3 | SHIFTERS

65

--- PAGE 66 ---

BEASTHIDE

Stoic and solid, a beasthide shifter draws
strength and stability from the beast within.
Beasthide shifters are typically tied to the bear
or the boar, but any creature known for its
toughness could apply.

Ability Score Increase. Your Constitution
score increases by 2.

Tough. You have proficiency with the
Athletics skill.

Shifting Feature. Whenever you shift, you
gain 1d6 additional temporary hit points, and
while shifted, you have a +1 bonus to your AC.

LoNGTOOTH

Longtooth shifters are fierce and aggressive, but
they form deep bonds with their friends. Many
longtooth shifters have canine traits that become
more pronounced as they shift, but they might
instead draw on tigers, hyenas, or other predators.

Ability Score Increase. Your Strength score
increases by 2.

Fierce. You have proficiency with the
Intimidation skill.

Shifting Feature. While shifted, you can use
your elongated fangs to make an unarmed strike
as a bonus action. If you hit with your fangs, you
can deal piercing damage equal to 1d6 + your
Strength modifier, instead of the bludgeoning
damage normal for an unarmed strike.

SWIFTSTRIDE

Swiftstride shifters are graceful and quick.
Typically feline in nature, swiftstride
shifters are often aloof and difficult to pin
down physically or socially.

Ability Score Increase. Your Dexterity and
Charisma scores increase by 1.

Graceful. You have proficiency with the
Acrobatics skill.

Swift Stride. Your walking speed increases by
5 feet.

Shifting Feature. While shifted, your
walking speed increases by an additional 5 feet.

66 CHAPTER 3 | SHIFTERS
Additionally, you can move up to 10 feet as a
reaction when an enemy ends its turn within
5 feet of you. This movement doesn’t provoke
opportunity attacks.

WILDHUNT

Wildhunt shifters are sharp and insightful.

Some are constantly alert, ever wary for possible
threats. Others focus on their intuition, searching
within. Wildhunt shifters are excellent hunters,
and they also tend to become the spiritual leaders
of shifter communities.

Ability Score Increase. Your Wisdom score
increases by 2.

Natural Tracker. You have proficiency with
the Survival skill.

Mark the Scent. As a bonus action, you can
mark one creature you can see within 10 feet of
you. Until the end of your next long rest, your
proficiency bonus is doubled for any ability check
you make to find the marked creature, and you
always know the location of that creature if it
is within 60 feet of you. You can’t use this trait
again until you finish a short or long rest.

Shifting Feature. While shifted,
you have advantage on
Wisdom checks.

--- PAGE 67 ---

WARFORGED

“Pierce was built by design, while you were built by «
Lakashtai said. “The soul 1s what matters, not the sl
the vessel.”

“What makes you think he has a soul?” Gerrion said
“What makes you think you do?”
—Keith Baker, The Shattered I

The warforged were built to fight in the Last
War. The first warforged were mindless
automatons, but House Cannith devoted vast
resources to improving these steel soldiers.

An unexpected breakthrough produced fully
sentient soldiers, blending organic and inorganic
materials. Warforged are made from wood

and metal, but they can feel pain and emotion.
Built as weapons, they must now find a purpose
beyond the war. A warforged can be a steadfast
ally, a cold-hearted killing machine, or a
visionary in search of purpose and meaning.

LIVING STEEL AND STONE

Warforged are formed from a blend of organic
and inorganic materials. Root-like cords infused
with alchemical fluids serve as their muscles,
wrapped around a framework of steel, darkwood
or stone. Armored plates form a protective outer
shell and reinforce joints. All warforged share
a common facial design, with a hinged jaw and
crystal eyes embedded beneath a reinforced
brow ridge. A sigil is engraved into the center of
the forehead; this is unique to each warforged.
Beyond these common elements of warforged
design, the precise materials and build of a
warforged vary based on the purpose for which it
was designed. A juggernaut warrior is a massive
brute with a heavy steel frame, while a skirmisher
can be crafted from wood and light mithral to
grant it lithe and elegant movement.

While they’re formed from stone and steel,
warforged are living humanoids. Resting, healing
magic, and the Medicine skill all provide the
wcident,”

ape of

and

same benefits to

warforged that they do to other humanoids. A
warforged can focus its mind on its body as it
rests, adjusting its shape and form to assume one
of a few defensive postures. A warforged who
expects heavy combat might focus on durability,
while during a time of peace they might be
content to adopt a lighter, less aggressive form.

WARFORGED PERSONALITY

The warforged were built to serve and to fight.
For most of their existence, warforged had a
clearly defined function and were encouraged
to focus purely on that role. The Treaty of
Thronehold gave them freedom, but many
warforged struggle both to find a place in the
post-war world and to relate to the creatures that
created them.

The typical warforged shows little emotion.
Many warforged embrace a concrete purpose—
protecting allies, completing a contract, or

CHAPTER 3 | WARFORGED 67

--- PAGE 68 ---

other pursuits—and devote themselves to this
task as they once did to war. However, there
are warforged who delight in exploring their
feelings and their freedom. Most warforged
have no interest in religion, but some embrace
faith and mysticism, seeking higher purpose and
deeper meaning.

The typical warforged has a muscular, sexless
body shape. Some warforged ignore the concept
of gender entirely, while others adopt a gender
identity in emulation of creatures around them.

Quirks

Whether due to some flaw in their creation or
simple ignorance of how other creatures operate,
warforged often acquire an odd personality trait
or two. A warforged player can choose to roll or
select a trait from the Warforged Quirks table.

WARFORGED QUIRKS
1d10 = Quirk

1 You analyze (out loud) the potential threat
posed by every creature you meet.

2 You don’t understand emotions and often
misread emotional cues.

3 You are fiercely protective of anyone you
consider a friend.

4 You often say the things you are thinking
aloud without realizing it.

5 You try to apply wartime tactics and
discipline to every situation.

6 You don’t know how to filter your feelings
and are prone to dramatic emotional
outbursts.

7 You don’t understand clothing beyond its
utility and assume that what a creature
wears denotes its job and status.

8 You are obsessed with your appearance,
and constantly polish and buff your armor.

9 You are deeply concerned with following
proper procedures and protocols.

10 Waristhe only thing that makes sense to
you, and you’re always looking for a fight.

68 CHAPTER 3 | WARFORGED
Warrorcep Names

Warforged were assigned numerical designations
for use in military service. Many of them
adopted nicknames, often given to them by their
comrades. As free individuals, some have chosen
new names as a way to express their path in life.
A few take on human names, often the name of a
fallen friend or mentor.

Warforged Names: Anchor, Banner,
Bastion, Blade, Blue, Bow, Church, Crunch,
Crystal, Dagger, Dent, Five, Glaive, Hammer,
Iron, Lucky, Mace, Pants, Pierce, Red, Rusty,
Scout, Seven, Shield, Slash, Smith, Spike, Stone,
Temple, Vault, Wall, Wood.

WARFORGED TRAITS

Your warforged character has the following traits.

Ability Score Increase. Your Constitution
score increases by 1.

Age. A typical warforged is between two and
thirty years old. The maximum lifespan of the
warforged remains a mystery; so far, warforged
have shown no signs of deterioration due to age.

Alignment. Most warforged take comfort in
order and discipline, tending toward law and
neutrality. But some have absorbed the morality
— or lack thereof — of the beings with which
they served.

Size. Your size is Medium. Most warforged
stand between 5 and 6 1/2 feet tall. Weight and
build are affected by subrace.

Speed. Your base walking speed is 30 feet.

Warforged Resilience. You were created to
have remarkable fortitude, represented by the
following benefits.

¢ You have advantage on saving throws

against being poisoned, and you have
resistance to poison damage.

¢ You areimmune to disease.
¢ You don’t need to eat, drink, or breathe.

¢ You don’t need to sleep and don’t suffer the
effects of exhaustion due to lack of rest, and
magic can’t put you to sleep.

--- PAGE 69 ---

Sentry’s Rest. When you take a long rest,
you must spend at least six hours in an inactive,
motionless state, rather than sleeping. In this
state, you appear inert, but it doesn’t render you
unconscious, and you can see and hear as normal.

INTEGRATED PROTECTION

Mode Prerequisite
Darkwood Core (unarmored) None

Composite Plating (armor) Medium armor profici

Heavy Plating (armor) Heaw armor proficien
Integrated Protection. Your body has built-
in defensive layers, which determine your armor
class. You gain no benefit from wearing armor,
but if you are using a shield, you apply its bonus
as normal.

You can alter your body to enter different
defensive modes; each time you finish a long
rest, choose one mode to adopt from the
Integrated Protection table, provided you meet
the mode’s prerequisite.

Languages. You can speak, read, and write
Common.

Subrace. As a warforged, your body was
designed for a specific purpose. Choose one of
these subraces: envoy, Juggernaut, or skirmisher.

Envoy

As an envoy, you were designed with a certain
specialized function in mind. You might be an
assassin, a healer, or an entertainer, to name
a few possibilities. Envoys are the rarest of
the warforged subraces, and yours could be a
unique design.

Ability Score Increase. Two different ability
scores of your choice increase by 1.

Specialized Design. You gain one skill
proficiency of your choice, one tool proficiency
of your choice, and fluency in one language of
your choice.

Integrated Tool. Choose one tool you’re
proficient with. This tool is integrated into your
body, and you double your proficiency bonus for
any ability checks you make with it. You must
have your hands free to use this integrated tool.

Effect

11 + your Dexterity modifier (add proficiency
bonus if proficient with light armor)

2ncy 13 + your Dexterity modifier (maximum of 2)

+ your proficiency bonus.

16 + your proficiency bonus; disadvantage on
Dexterity (Stealth) checks.

CHAPTER 3 | WARFORGED

69

--- PAGE 70 ---

70

ENVOYS: SPECIALIZED DESIGN

As the name implies, most warforged were
built to fight in the Last War. The vast
majority of warforged are juggernauts or
skirmishers—soldiers and scouts who fought
under the banner of one of the Five Nations.
Warforged envoys, however, were designed
to perform other functions. As an envoy you
have a skill, a tool proficiency, and a tool
that’s part of your body. When you make

an envoy character, consider the following
questions: what is your purpose? How does
your skill and tool reflect that purpose?
What form does your integrated tool take?

If you have embedded thieves’ tools, for
instance, are your fingers actually lockpicks,
or can you produce keys from various parts
of your body? The following characters are
examples of warforged with integrated tools.

Lute is a bard with the entertainer
background; his namesake instrument folds
out of his left arm.

Compass Rose is a wizard with the
outlander background. A keen explorer,
she uses her built-in cartographer’s tools to
records the paths she travels.

Masque is an infiltrator. A rogue with the
charlatan background and an integrated
disguise kit, she was built to blend in and
assassinate. Cannith built six warforged of
her design, and Masque has vowed to hunt
down and destroy the other five.

In developing your integrated tool,
remember that you must have your hands
free to use it. Masque, the infiltrator
mentioned above, doesn’t shapeshift like a
changeling; she has to manually adjust her
appearance.

JUGGERNAUT

You’re an imposing war machine built for close
combat and raw might. You tower over your
comrades; juggernaut warforged stand between
6 and 7 feet in height and can weigh up to 450
pounds.

Ability Score Increase. Your Strength score
increases by 2.

Iron Fists. When you make an unarmed
strike, you can deal 1d4 + your Strength modifier

CHAPTER 3 | DWARVES
bludgeoning damage instead of the normal
damage.

Powerful Build. You count as one size larger
when determining your carrying capacity and the
weight you can push, drag, or lift.

SKIRMISHER

You were built to scout the edges of battle and
outmaneuver your enemies. You are lean and
designed for speed.

Ability Score Increase. Your Dexterity
score increases by 2.

Swift. Your walking speed is increased by 5
feet.

Light Step. When you are traveling alone
for an extended period of time (one hour or
more), you can move stealthily at a normal pace.
(See chapter 8 of the Player’s Handbook for more
information about travel pace.)

--- PAGE 71 ---

DWARVES

“Gold is the gift of the mountains, but tron comes
Jrom blood and bone.”

—Mror Proverb

The origin of the dwarves is shrouded in mystery.
Their legends say that they came to Khorvaire
from a land of endless ice; some believe this to
mean the arctic Frostfell, while others assert that
the first dwarves must have come from the plane
of Risia itself. Wherever they began, the dwarves
established a mighty nation beneath the surface
of Khorvaire. Tales speak of mighty artifacts and
vast treasures crafted in the deeps, and of wars
fought against the goblin Empire of Dhakaan.
No one knows where the line lies between truth
and story. The ancestors of the modern dwarves
were exiles from this ancient kingdom, and the
realm below was destroyed by the daelkyr. Bold
adventurers can delve into the haunted darkness
of the fallen kingdom... but legends are the only
legacy modern dwarves have of this age of glory.

DWARVES OF THE Five NATIONS

Dwarves are spread across Khorvaire. Dwarf
soldiers and engineers were part of the armies
that united the Five Nations, and dwarf masons
laid the foundations of the greatest cities of
Galifar. While many of the dwarves of the Five
Nations still speak the language of their ancestors,
they feel a bond to the lands of their birth. A
Brelish dwarf feels a deep, personal connection to
the towers of Sharn or the great walls of Wroat;
the typical dwarf is actually more patriotic than
the average human of the Five Nations. This
passion caused most dwarves to serve their nation
in the Last War, at least for a time; this is the
general basis of dwarven weapon training. Most
dwarves also have a strong bond to their families,
so to a dwarf, family and nation are two edges of
the same blade.
As a dwarf of the Five Nations, consider how
widespread your family is and where their roots
lie. Are they soldiers? Priests or politicians?
Architects or stonemasons? Are you close to
your relatives or have you had a falling out—
or potentially lost your kin in the Last War?
Likewise, consider what you did in the war and
how that reflects on your current actions. Were
you a soldier, and if so, how did that service end?
If not, did you serve your nation in another way,
or did you turn your back on it?

DWARVES OF THE Mror Hops

The Mror Holds are discussed in chapter 2.
One question to consider is why you’ve left the
Holds. Whether you’re an heir of a noble clan

or a simple guild artisan, what has drawn you
away from your homeland? The Mror Past table
provides a few ideas.

DWARVES AND DRAGONMARKS

House Kundarak carries the Mark of Warding.
In addition to providing all manner of security,

House Kundarak dominates the banking industry.

MROR PAST
1d6 Reason for Leaving

1A feud witha rival clan has gotten out of
hand, and it’s best that you leave the Holds
for a few decades.

2 You're in alarge family and there’s no room
for you to shine in your hold; you hope to
prove yourself in the wider world.

3 Your clan has arranged your marriage and
your future; you’ve decided to have a few
adventures before you settle down.

4 You’re pursuing a vendetta with a personal
rival. Are you seeking to defeat them in
battle or in business?

5 You’re searching for a legendary dwarven
artifact, removed from the Mror Holds
centuries ago by a Karrnathi noble.

6 You want to assemble a band of champions
who can help you explore the ancient ruins
beneath your ancestral home.

CHAPTER 3 | DWARVES

71

--- PAGE 72 ---

72

ELVES

Caerys held her double blade in the falcon guard, level
with her shoulders and spreading out lke wings. “I
came in search of legends. Ten thousand years ago
Daealyth of Taeri stood this ground and faced your
ancestors, and twenty fell before his singing blades.
You are no Dhakaani of old, and a mere twenty of you
will bring no honor to the Taen.”

The warlord hissed in fury, and his flail flashed in the
firelight. The chain wrapped around Caerys’ blade but
she twisted away. The flail flew into the darkness. She
Spun forward, her double blade weaving a circle of fire
as she danced toward the chieftain. In a moment the
song of steel was over.

Caerys watched as the warlord fell to the ground.
With a contemptuous snap of her wrist, she flicked
the blood from her blade into the eyes of the stunned
onlookers. She smiled behind her spirit veal, counting
the blades arrayed against her.

“But forty will.”

Elven culture began on the distant continent of
Xen’drik. Tens of thousands of years ago, the
elves rose up against the giants who ruled that
land. Ultimately, the elves fled from Xen’drik and
settled the island nation of Aerenal. There they
split into two distinct cultures: the introspective
Aereni and the warlike Tairnadal. While
neither of these cultures have much interest in
human activities, a small number of elves have
immigrated to Khorvaire over the years and have
integrated with the cultures of the Five Nations.
As a whole, elves are driven by tradition
and respect for the past. Where humans value
innovation, elves strive to perfect the techniques
of their ancestors. With centuries to devote to
their studies, the elves are masters of their chosen
crafts; at the same time, their society has changed
very little over the last five thousand years, while
Khorvaire is constantly evolving. As an elf,
consider your relationship with the past. Do you
value the traditions of your ancestors? Or do you
fear that your people are too mired in the past,
and need to find a way forward?

CHAPTER 3 | DWARVES
ELves OF AERENAL

Aerenal is ruled by the Undying Court, a council
of undead elves sustained by positive energy.
The Undying Court wields godlike power and
has protected your island home for thousands of
years. The greatest heroes of your people join the
Undying Court after death; if you achieve great
things in your life, you too could achieve this
immortality.

The Aereni are isolationists who have little
interest in the world beyond their island. The
Five Nations are a place of chaos and war. With
this in mind, what has caused you to leave your
island and wander the world? Are you in search
of a power that could earn you your place in the
Undying Court? Have you been given a quest by
one of your own deathless ancestors? Or are you
an exile, banished from your homeland for some
crime against the Undying Court?

As one of the Aereni, think about your history.
What is your family known for, and how can you
prove yourself to be a master of these skills? Do
you have ancestors in the Undying Court, and if
so, what’s your relationship with them? Do you
find dealing with the short-lived races to be a
challenge, or are you patient with them?

--- PAGE 73 ---

ELF VARIANTS

The Valenar and Aereni are physically similar
but culturally distinct. Aereni are typically
high elves, while Valenar are usually wood
elves; but both of these subraces are options
in these cultures. The Aereni place greater
importance on perfecting a single skill than
on training with weaponry, while the Valenar
take pride in their skill with scimitars. These
elves have a racial trait in place of the Elf
Weapon Training trait. If your DM allows

it, your elf character can forgo Elf Weapon
Training and instead take the elf trait based
on their culture:

* An Aereni elf can choose one skill or
tool proficiency. Your proficiency bonus
is doubled for any ability check you
make that uses this chosen proficiency.

+ A Valenar elf gains proficiency with the
scimitar, double scimitar, longbow, and
shortbow.

ELVES OF VALENAR

Your people are dedicated to the arts of war.
Millenia ago, your ancestors fought an epic
war against mighty giants. When they came to
Khorvaire, they battled the champions of the
goblin empire. The greatest heroes of those
struggles live on after death, known as the patron
ancestors. When you became an adult, one of the
patron ancestors formed a bond with you. Now
it is your duty to follow in the footsteps of your
patron, living your life as they lived theirs, allowing
this champion to live on through you. This is why
your people constantly seek out conflict; you need
to find challenges worthy of a hero.

In creating a Valenar, think about your patron
ancestor. Your class should reflect their class;
if you’re a wizard, your ancestor was likely a
legendary archmage. If you’re a ranger, was
your ancestor a famous blademaster, or a
stealthy hunter? Was your ancestor chivalrous
or merciless? Bold or clever? Whatever their
nature, it’s your duty to follow their example.
Is this something you proudly embrace, or do
you resist it? Each patron ancestor is tied to
many Valenar: do you have a particular rival
who channels the same ancestor, or one who
channels a rival of your ancestor?

It’s also important to think about why you
are traveling with a group of player characters

instead of serving in a Valenar warband. Are
you driven by visions from your patron ancestor?
Are you pursuing an epic quest that mirrors their
legendary deeds? Do you seek vengeance for the
death of a friend or ally? Or have you turned
away from your people, either by choice or
because of the actions of a rival?

VALENAR DouBLE ScIMITAR

The double scimitar is the signature weapon of
Valenar elves. A haft of fine wood supports a
long blade on either end. Forged with techniques
honed over tens of thousands of years, these
blades are strong, sharp, and remarkably light.
Each scimitar is a masterpiece, and as a result
the double scimitar is an expensive weapon, but
few people ever have an opportunity to purchase
one. If you’re an elf, your blade could have a
long and storied history. If you’re not an elf, you
might have stolen the weapon from a fallen foe
or received it from a dying Valenar ally. If you
work with your DM to create the story behind

CHAPTER 3 | DWARVES

73

--- PAGE 74 ---

DOUBLE-BLADED SCIMITAR: MARTIAL MELEE V
Weapon Name Cost Damage
Double-bladed Scimitar 100gp  2d4 slashing

your double scimitar, you can start with the
weapon at Ist level in place of a martial weapon
normally granted by your class. However, it can
be dangerous for a non-elf to carry a double
scimitar. Valenar may demand its return or
challenge you to prove that you’re worthy to
wield it.

Special. When you take the attack action and
make a two-handed attack with a double-bladed
scimitar, you can use a bonus action to make a
melee attack with the blade at the opposite end
of the weapon. This attack uses the same ability
modifier as the primary attack. The weapon’s
damage die for this attack is a d4, and it deals
slashing damage.

Feat: REVENANT BLADE
Prerequisite: Elf

You are descended from a master of the double
blade and their skills have passed on to you. You
gain the following benefits:

¢ Increase your Dexterity or Strength score
by 1, to a maximum of 20.

¢ While wielding a double-bladed weapon
with two hands, the weapon has the finesse
trait for your attacks with it, and you gain
+1 AC.

¢ On your turn, when you use a bonus action
to make a melee attack with the blade at the
opposite end of the weapon, the weapon’s
damage die for this attack increases to 2d4,
instead of 1d4.

74 CHAPTER 3 | DWARVES
VEAPON
Weight Properties
6lbs Special, two-handed

ELVES OF KHORVAIRE

Throughout history, elves have occasionally
immigrated to Khorvaire—some by choice,
some through exile. Many of the finest wizards
in the Five Nations are high elves, along with
renowned artisans. Wood elves are found among
the rangers and druids of the Eldeen Reaches,
though you could just as easily be a wood elf who
hunts in the darkest alleys of Sharn. Subrace is a
matter of aptitude as opposed to genetics, and the
people of Khorvaire will see you only as an elf.
As an elf in Khorvaire, you have grown up
among short-lived races. You may not be as
concerned with history and tradition as the
Aereni and Valenar; you could even live your

--- PAGE 75 ---

life entirely in the moment, with no care for your
family or your legacy. Nonetheless, you may
have outlived many human friends; how does
that affect you? Did you know the parents or
grandparents of another member of the party...
and if so, might you be trying to repay a debt to
that long-dead friend? Do you remember a time
before the Last War? Did you fight in the war,
and if so, for which side?

THE Drow oF EBERRON

During the ancient war between giants of
Xen’drik and their elf slaves, the magebreeders
of the giants bound the essence of shadows into
the loyal elves. These were the first drow, assassin
bred to fight prey on their sunlit kin. The drow
were made to kill elves, and while thousands

of years have passed, a deep enmity remains
between them.

The drow remained on Xen’drik and were
caught in the collapse of its civilizations. Today
they linger in the shadows of Xen’drik and
are all but unknown on Khorvaire. There are
three distinct drow cultures. The Vulkoori
are tribal hunters who worship totem spirits,
especially the scorpion Vulkoor. They hunt
giants and may threaten anyone who travels in
the shattered land. The Sulatar live in obsidian
cities and wield powerful fire magic; they seek
to one day unleash fire across the world. And
the Umbragen live in the underworld below
Xen’drik, wielding sophisticated shadow magics
as they battle against aberrations and the daelkyr.

Most of the people of Khorvaire have never
seen a drow, and you likely know little about the
Five Nations. As a drow PC, are you a Vulkoori
hunter who somehow made your way to
Khorvaire—a primitive warrior finding your way
in this strange new world? Are you an Umbragen
shadow-wielder seeking powers that can help
your people in their endless war? Or a Sulatar
fire-binder pursuing a personal path to glory?

Do you despise elves you encounter and seek out
conflict, or are you willing to forget the ancient
war between your people?
CORELLON AND LOLTH

The elves of Eberron weren’t created by the
gods you may know from other settings. In
Eberron, the Sulat Giants created the drow
as a weapon to fight the rebellious elves:
there is a lingering enmity between drow
and elf, but it’s not driven by the influence
of Lolth. Meanwhile, the elves revere their
ancestors—many of whom still linger and
guide them—as opposed to distant gods.

This is an opportunity to explore these
traditional races in a new light. However, if
you want to incorporate Corellon and Lolth,
there’s a few ways to do it. One possibility
is that Eberron was created as a copy of
the distant realms of the multiverse, hidden
away to prevent the gods from influencing
it. AS such, while the drow of Eberron have
no knowledge of Lolth, if she found her way
through the Ring of Siberys and into Eberron,
she might be able to poison their hearts and
turn them to her service.

Alternately, you could present both
Corellon and Lolth as legendary champions
from the past. Corellon could be one of the
great heroes and patron ancestors of the
Valenar, or one of the leaders of the Undying
Court; while Lolth could be the legendary first
commander of the drow, whose spirit lingers
and hungers for revenge.

Ultimately, it’s a question of the story you
want to tell. Do you want to preserve the
unique cultures of Eberron? Incorporate
Corellon and Lolth into those cultures
organically? Or explore the idea of these
powers just discovering Eberron and
awakening hidden memories in the blood of
elf and drow?

ELVES AND DRAGONMARKS

The elven houses of Phiarlan and Thuranni carry
the Mark of Shadow. They control the business
of espionage throughout Khorvaire, but they

also operate more legitimate businesses related to
art and entertainment. Once they were a single
house, but they split during the Last War; now
they are ruthless competitors in both espionage
and entertainment.

CHAPTER 3 | DWARVES

75

--- PAGE 76 ---

76

GNOMES

“Five words can defeat a thousand swords.”

—Zil proverb

Gnomes possess a love of knowledge that many
would describe as lust. Most gnomes hate physical
violence and prefer to solve their problems with
words—whether that’s a wizard’s word of power
or a rogue’s careful threat. The common view

of the gnome is that of a friendly busybody,
always ready to lend a hand or share a story. But
in fact, that cheerful gnome is often gathering
information that could one day be useful.

GNOMES OF ZILARGO

It would be an exaggeration to say that every Zil
gnome is a ruthless schemer. But intrigue is the
favorite pastime of the Zil. As a Zil gnome, you’ve
been taught to manipulate and deceive since

childhood. You’ve been involved in dozens of
schemes and feuds, and you’re likely still tied up

ZIL SCHEMES
1d10 Scheme

1 Your family is working ona new form of elem
lots of them.

2 You have a mysterious contact who sends yot
instructions, you invariably receive a reward.

3 You’ve acquired a plot of land in Xen’drik. You
year, you'll lose the claim.

4 Due to an unusual twist of Triumvirate law, yc
you’re all legally considered to be the same p
You’ve acquired a spellshard that contains a v
You know the location of a wanted war crimir
exchange for your silence?

7 You’ve been selling false treasure maps. But r

8 You’ve acquired a controlling stake in a distan
centuries ago due to “problems.” Kobolds? Ak

9 Your family is facing financial ruin and they’ve
only pays out if you die under unusual circum
more dangerous adventures.

10 You’re peddling a life extension scheme wher

after a predetermined amount of time.

CHAPTER 3 | GNOMES
in a few of them (consult the Zil Schemes table).
Even if you have a good heart and noble goals,
you may still prefer to use trickery and cunning
instead of relying on honesty or brute force.

Zil gnomes typically use the forest gnome
subrace. The natural illusionist trait is a part of
daily life in Zilargo, used both for entertainment
and for trickery. The Thurimbar rod is a common
magic item that amplifies this natural gift for
purposes of creating music. The power to speak
with small beasts is likewise something often
put to practical use, and the Zil often use small
animals as messengers or guides. While Zil
gnomes don’t automatically have proficiency
with Deception or Persuasion, these skills are
common in Zil society; you could take the
charlatan or criminal background as a way of
reflecting your Zil upbringing.

As a player character, one question is why
you’ve left Zilargo and what ties you still have
to it. You could be a sage gathering information
for the Library of Korranberg, or an investigator
sending stories of your adventures back to the
Korranberg Chronicle. Family is very important
to the Zil, and you could be pursuing the interests

ental binding, but they need Khyber dragonshards—
| missions via sending; when you follow their
’ve never been there, and if you don't visit it within a

uu share the same name with a number of other Zil and
erson.

ast amount of text ina seemingly unbreakable code.
val. Will you turn them in, or try to get something in

ow you’ve found one that might be real.

t dragonshard mine, but the mine was abandoned
errations? There’s only one way to find out.

taken out a lucrative life insurance policy on you. It
stances, and they’re encouraging you to seek out ever

e clients are petrified by a medusa and then restored

--- PAGE 77 ---

of your family... or seeking to interfere with

the plans of a rival family. You could even be
working for the mysterious Trust, the conspiracy
that maintains order in Zilargo. If you are
working for the Trust, you could have a specific
mission, but you could also be a sleeper agent—
gathering information and allies and waiting for
the day when your skills will be put to use.

Zit Names

Zil society is divided into major houses, each of
which is composed of multiple families. Each
gnome has three names: their personal name,
their family name, and their house name. For
example, Alina Lorridan Lyrris and Tallian
Talius Lyrris are members of different families
within House Lyrris. Gnomish names are long
and lyrical; a Zil proverb claims “the sweetest
song is the name of a friend.” Personal and clan
names average three syllables in length, and there
is a strong tradition of alliteration.

Male Names: Alian, Castar, Dorius, Elymar,
Haliar, Hasal, Ilhan, Jassian, Lassius, Sanadal,
Tallian, Torius

Female Names: Alina, Cassia, Dalia, Jandia,
Lysse, Myssia, Ranadala, Saralyssa, Talina,
Tandria, Tassi, Vassilia

Family Names: Alyre, Alysse, Canatar,

Del, Dorian, Hal, Josilyn, Kan, Lin, Lorridan,
Lyrriman, Sil, Suvius, Syrralan, Talius, Til,
Torralyn

Clan Names: Adredar, Clebdecher, Dalian,
Davandi, Harlian, Hebberdesh, Korrian,
Lonadar, Lyrris, Nezzelech, Santiar, Tarliach

GNOMES OF THE Five NATIONS

Gnomes are found across the Five Nations, and
most are well-integrated into the local cultures.
Gnomes are often encountered as merchants,
magewrights, chroniclers, scholars, and
scoundrels. While the gnomes of the Five Nations
aren’t as inherently devious as their Zil cousins,
family is usually important to them. You may
have a network of old favors and connections to
the community you grew up in. But you might
also have chosen to find your own path in life,
avoiding the intrigues your cousins adore.

Gnomes AND DRAGONMARKS

The gnomes of House Sivis carry the Mark
of Scribing. Members of the house are scribes
and notaries, but they also maintain the
sending stones that facilitate long-distance
communication in Khorvaire.

HaLr-ELves

‘P'm not ‘half anything. You humans come from
Sarlona. The elves are from Aerenal. Me? I’m a true
child of Khorvaire.”

—Nandon Tam, Khoravar activist

Half-elves are spread across Khorvaire, from

the Towering Woods of the Eldeen Reaches

to the slums of Sharn. New half-elves are born
in every generation as a result of pairings
between humans, elves, and half-elves, and these
newborns typically cling to the cultures of their
parents. However, over the course of centuries
half-elves have developed their own communities
and traditions; this sense of identity has been
strengthened by the rise of House Lyrandar and
House Medani.

In making a half-elf character, think about
whether you were born into a Khoravar
community, or if you were born to parents of
different races. Is your half-elf identity a source
of pride, or something that has been difficult for
you? The elves of Aerenal have never allowed a
half-elf into the Undying Court, and the Valenar
elves don’t consider half-elves to be capable of
channeling a Valenar ancestral spirit.

THE KHORAVAR

When two half-elves conceive, the child is always
a half-elf. Over the course of generations, families
and communities of half-elves have developed
their own cultural identity. Members of these

CHAPTER 3 | HALF-ELVES

77

--- PAGE 78 ---

78

families generally dislike the term “half-elf;”
they call themselves Khoravar, an Elven term
meaning “children of Khorvaire.”

Khoravar culture places a strong emphasis on
generosity and hospitality toward other Khoravar.
You aren’t expected to put yourself in danger for
a stranger, but when possible, half-elves do what
they can to help other Khoravar and to share
information. Khoravar communities have weekly
unity dinners where local news and events are
shared; if you’re playing a half-elf, a unity dinner
is a good opportunity for you to hear about local
events and rumors. Of course, this is a double-
edged sword; should you gain a reputation as
a capable adventurer, Khoravar in need may
approach you and ask for your assistance.

Khoravar speak both Common and Elven,
and among themselves they often blend these
two together. This pidgin makes perfect sense to
anyone who speaks both languages, but someone
who only speaks one of the two languages could
have to make an Intelligence check (DC 10) to
understand the full meaning of a statement.

While some Khoravar prefer to follow their
own paths, many espouse the idea of “the bridge
between:” encouraging Khoravar to facilitate
communication and cooperation between
members of different cultures or species. Such
Khoravar often become mediators, diplomats,
translators, or bards. Others are fascinated by
their distant connection to the Fey, becoming
Greensinger druids or warlocks bargaining with
Archfey. As a Khoravar, do any of these paths
appeal to you?

HALF-ELVvEs AND DRAGONMARKS

Half-elves families carry two dragonmarks.
House Medani holds the Mark of Detection,
and offers services related to investigation,
threat assessment, and security. House Lyrandar
carries the Mark of Storms. Lyrandar has long
dominated the shipping industry, and the recent
development of the airship has increased its
power and potential. House Lyrandar presents
itself as a pillar for the Khoravar, and even if you
don’t have a dragonmark you could work for the
house, whether as a sailor or a house agent.

CHAPTER 3 | HALF-ORCS
Hatr-Orcs

“We're hunters in a world of sheep.”

—Kalaash’arrna,
Tharashk Inquisitive

Half-orcs can be found anywhere orcs and
humans meet. The Ghaash’kala orcs of the
Demon Wastes are devout servants of the Silver
Flame who devote their lives to containing

the evils of the Wastes; as a half-orc paladin,
you might have been sent south on a divine
mission, hoping your human blood will help
you deal with these soft creatures. You could
be the orphan child of an unusual pairing,
forced to find your own way in the world. But
the greatest concentration of half-orcs is in the
Shadow Marches, where humans and orcs have
coexisted for centuries. With the rise of the
dragonmarked House Tharashk, orcs and half-
orcs have spread out through the Five Nations
and beyond.

Overall, the people of the Five Nations know
little about half-orcs. The archetype of the
Tharashk half-orc is that of a bounty hunter
or inquisitive, though there’s also a touch of
“simpleton from the swamps.” People may be
uneasy around you or assume that you know little
about the ways of civilization. With that said,
while orcs are typically seen as primitives who
live on the fringes of civilization, in Eberron orcs
aren’t inherently EVIL. People may be afraid
of you because they think you’re a dangerous
bounty hunter, but there’s no immediate
assumption that you’re cruel or bloodthirsty...
Most of the time.

Hatr-Orcs OF THE SHADOW MARCHES

Where the people of the Five Nations know

little of your kind, in the swamps of the Shadow
Marches half-orcs are celebrated. Human
refugees settled in the Shadow Marches centuries
ago, and the first half-orcs helped to cement the
bond between these outsiders and the native orcs.
Many Marchers feel that the half-orc carries the

--- PAGE 79 ---

best traits of both races, with the strength of the
orc and the cunning of the human.

The rise of House Tharashk has brought
prosperity to the Marches. Many of the Marcher
clans work for the house in some capacity, and
you could be an agent of the house even if you
don’t carry the Mark of Finding, working as a
bounty hunter or a clever investigator. But there
are other paths you could follow.

¢ The Gatekeeper druids of the Shadow
Marches have defended Eberron from
aberrations and the daelkyr for thousands
of years. As a druid, ranger, or barbarian,
you could be a Gatekeeper initiate pursuing
a quest in the wider world.

¢ The Cults of the Dragon Below also have
deep roots in Shadow Marches. While
cultists are often evil, the main thing about
the Cults is that their beliefs generally seem
like madness to others. You could be a half-
orc barbarian who’s ventured beyond the
Marches so you can find worthy enemies;
slaying powerful foes is the only way to earn
your passage to the paradise that lies within
the heart of the hollow world. This is also a
logical path for a warlock using the Great
Old One pact.

¢ You could be a simple hunter from the
Shadow Marches. You might have fought
as a mercenary in the Last War, or you
could be seeking your fortune or a real
challenge in the world that lies beyond.

Hatr-Orcs AND DRAGONMARKS

The half-orcs of House Tharashk carry the Mark
of Finding. House Tharashk licenses bounty
hunters, inquisitives, and prospectors; if you want
something found, turn to Tharashk.
HALFLINGS

“ombies? Minotaurs? Those things don’t scare me at
all. But a howling halfling warrior charging you on a
clawfoot raptor? Most terrifying thing I’ve ever seen.”

—Sir Danton ir’Lain,
Brelish knight

The halflings of Eberron began in the east of
Khorvaire, and nomadic tribes still wander

the Talenta Plains. However, many halflings
followed their dragonmarked houses into the
lands to the west, and they’ve been a part of the
Five Nations since before the rise of Galifar.

In Eberron, halfling subraces represent
personal aptitude as opposed to genetics. Most
halflings are lightfoot, especially in the Talenta
Plains, but stout halflings can be found in any
community. Ghostwise halflings are extremely
rare; in the Talenta Plains they are considered
to be touched by the spirits and often become
respected druids, while in the Five Nations they
are generally seen as oddities.

HALFLINGS AND DRAGONMARKS

Halflings carry two dragonmarks. House Jorasco
carries the Mark of Healing and dominates the
business of medicine. House Ghallanda holds the
Mark of Hospitality and runs inns, hostels, and
taverns across Khorvaire.

HALFLINGS OF THE Five Nations

Halflings can be found in every city in Khorvaire.
Quick and charming, halflings are often found as
merchants, politicians, barristers, and bards. Of
course, these same talents are useful for grifters
and other criminals.

Most notably, the halflings of the Boromar
Clan are the most powerful criminal
organization in Breland. They are based in
Sharn, but their influence can be felt across the
nation and even in the distant city of Stormreach.
If you decide to play a halfling rogue—or

CHAPTER 3 | HALFLINGS

79

--- PAGE 80 ---

80

any character with a criminal or charlatan
background—you should decide if you have a
connection to the Boromar Clan, and discuss
this with your DM. You could be a freelance
operative who occasionally gets jobs from a
Boromar underboss. You could have a cousin in
the Boromar Clan, who occasionally pulls you
into their problems. Or you could even be the
reluctant heir of a powerful Boromar leader;
you’ve gone on the run rather than taking your
place in this criminal empire, but someday your
past may catch up with you.

TALENTA HALFLING QUIRKS

1d10 Quirk

1 You are constantly amazed by things the |

2 You pattern your behavior on a particular

3 You are extremely curious, and you’re alv

4 You love to boast, and you’re always tellir

5 You wear a mask that you believe holds tt
you are troubled.

6 You don’t understand the concept of “tru
you tell it.

7 You are annoyed by buildings and tools de

8 You seek vengeance for a wrong done to |

9 You never forget an insult or injury.

10 You see the hand of the spirits in everythi

CHAPTER 3 | HALFLINGS
TALENTA HALFLINGS

The Talenta Plains and its people are described
in chapter 2. As a Talenta halfling, a critical
question is why you’ve left the Plains. Perhaps

you served as a mercenary scout in the Last
War and you’ve remained with the comrades
you met in the conflict. Maybe your tribe was
wiped out by a foreign enemy—the Aurum, the

9eople of the Five Nations take for granted.

species of dinosaur.

jays searching for new experiences.

1g exaggerated stories of your amazing adventures.

ie spirit of your former mount, and you talk to it when

th.” To you, everything is a story and it’s all about how

2signed without consideration for small creatures.
your tribe or family.

ng that occurs around you.

--- PAGE 81 ---

Emerald Claw—and you are traveling the wider
world in search of information and revenge.
Perhaps you’re guided by the spirits, who send
you whispers and visions driving you on your
adventures. You could be an official envoy of
your tribe seeking allies in the world, or simply
sent to learn more about the lands beyond the
plains. Are you amazed by the wonders of the
Five Nations and their everyday magic, or do
you take the world of the big folk in stride? The
Talentan Halfling Quirks table provides ways to
reflect your outsider perspective.

Dinosaurs play an important role in Talentan
culture. How does this affect you? Do you have a
clawfoot companion? As a druid you can assume
dinosaur forms; as a monk you could use fighting
styles based on different dinosaurs. Likewise,
in playing a Beast Totem barbarian or Circle
of the Shepherd druid, consider replacing the
traditional totems with the following.

Bear: Hammertail (ankylosaurus)

Eagle: Glidewing (pteranodon)

Wolf: Clawfoot raptor
CLAWFOOT RAPTOR
Medium Beast, Unaligned

Armor Class: 14 (natural armor)
Hit Points: 16 (3d8+3)
Speed: 50 ft

STR DEX CON INT’ WIS CHA

17 (+3) 17(+3) 13 (+1) 2(-4) 12(+#1) 10 (+0)

Skills Athletics +5, Perception +5, Stealth +5
Senses passive Perception 15

Languages —

Challenge 1/2 (100 XP)

Pounce. \f the clawfoot moves at least 30 feet
straight toward a creature and then hits it with
a claw attack on the same turn, that target must
succeed on a DC 13 Strength saving throw or

be knocked prone. If the target is prone, the

clawfoot can make one bite attack against it as a
bonus action.

ACTIONS
Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5
ft., one target. Hit: 10 (2d6+3) slashing damage

Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft.,
one target. Hit: 8 (2d4+3) piercing damage

CHAPTER 3 | HALFLINGS

81

--- PAGE 82 ---

HUMANS

“The dwarf ts stoic. The elf is wise. The gnome ts
cunning. And humans? They can’t make up their
mind, so they try to be all of these things at once.”

—Kessler, Sharn bard

Humans have dominated Khorvaire for
thousands of years. ‘They founded the Five
Nations and make up the majority of the
population in these countries. Despite their
relatively short lifespan—or perhaps because
of it—humans are innovative, adaptable, and
ageressive, always pushing their limits and
pursuing new ideas.

Humans are extremely diverse; a barbarian
from the Demon Wastes has little in common
with a Brelish rogue. When you’re creating a
human character, consider where you’re from
and how that’s reflected in your class

and background. Chapter 2 presents an

overview of the nations of Khorvaire and
ideas for characters tied to those nations.
However, these are ideas—
not restrictions.

$2 CHAPTER 3 | HUMANS
Aundarr is a logical origin for a wizard, but your
wizard could be a down-and-out arcanist from
the alleys of Sharn or a Lhazaar pirate with a
knack for the mystic arts.

The variant human presented in the Player’s
Handbook provides an additional opportunity to
capture some of the flavor of Eberron. Does your
choice of skill proficiency and feat reflect the
culture you were raised in?

HUMANS AND DRAGONMARKS

Humans possess a wide range of Dragonmarks,
and their houses are spread across Khorvaire.
House Cannith is one of the most powerful
houses, creating both magic and mundane
items with the Mark of Making. House Orien
maintains the Lightning Rail and trade
caravans that run across the continent. House
Deneith brokers the services of bodyguards
and mercenaries. House Vadalis uses the Mark
of Handling to breed fine mounts and other
creatures. House Tharashk produces bounty
hunters, prospectors, and
inquisitives.

--- PAGE 83 ---

OTHER RACES

The races described so far are those commonly
found in the Five Nations. However, there are
many other creatures in the world. Here’s a
brief overview of some of these other races and
what you might do with them. It’s always up

to the DM to decide if an unusual race is an
option for player character; there’s a place for
dragonborn in Eberron, but if a DM doesn’t
want to use them in a campaign, they remain
hidden and unknown.

AASIMAR

In Eberron, aasimar aren’t a race as such.
Rather, each aasimar is a unique individual
touched by a celestial power. An aasimar bound
to the Silver Flame has a couatl as an angelic
guide, driving it to protect the innocent from
supernatural evil. An archon from Shavarath
could exhort its aasimar to fight tyranny and
injustice in the name of Dol Arrah, while an
angel from Syrania might encourage its aasimar
to seek out knowledge and uphold the law as a
servant of Aureon. On the other side of things,
a fallen aasimar could have a bond to a spirit

of Mabar or a cruel fiend from Shavarath. An
aasimar could even be an elf channeling the
power of the Undying Court, though they’d
possess the standard aasimar traits in place of any
elf traits.

The appearance of an aasimar will depend on
the nature of their angelic guide. An aasimar
might appear to be a normal human or elf until
they unleash their celestial gifts. Most people
have heard stories of aasimars, but have never
actually met one.

DRAGONBORN

Tens of thousands of years ago the dragons of
Argonnessen established a garrison of dragonborn
in what is now Q’barra. These warriors were
assigned to protect the region against the influence
of the Lords of Dust. Over time they drifted away
from their duties, building an empire in western
Khorvaire and clashing with the Dhakaani
goblinoids. This came crashing down when one
of the ancient Overlords stirred, unleashing
fiends and corrupting many of the dragonborn
themselves. Their empire collapsed and the
dragonborn retreated to the darkness of Q’barra.
They have remained their ever since, fighting the
forces of the Poison Dusk and guarding against
further corruption.

To date the dragonborn have largely ignored
the humans of Q’barra, and the few humans
who’ve encountered dragonborn believe they’re
some exotic type of lizardfolk. If you’re a
dragonborn PC, what has caused you to emerge
from Q’barra? Are you on a quest to help your
people or to oppose the Lords of Dust? Are you
driven by wanderlust or curiosity? Did you serve
as a mercenary in the Last War?

GITHYANKI AND GITHZERAI

The githyanki city of Tu’narath hes in the Astral
Plane, while the githzerai have established their
stronghold in the chaos of Kythri. If you wish

to have traffic between Eberron and the wider
multiverse, Tu’narath can lie between Eberron
and the planes that lie beyond; an incursion by
the githyanki could be the first sign of contact
with the outer multiverse. On the other hand,
it’s just as easy to say that the gith of Eberron are
tied to the setting and have no traffic with the
broader multiverse.

The gith are a race enslaved by the mind
flayers, who overthrew these cruel masters and
raised fortresses in the planes. This story holds
true in Eberron, with one twist. It was the daelkyr
who invaded the world of the gith. The daelkyr
created the first mind flayers from gith stock
and turned these monsters against their own
people. So it was the mind flayers who destroyed
the gith—but worse still, the mind flayers are
themselves a twisted reflection of the gith.

To date, the githyanki and githzerai have
played no significant role in the history of
Eberron, and only the wisest sage would
recognize one. If you play a gith character,

CHAPTER 3 | OTHER RACES

83

--- PAGE 84 ---

84

consider what brings you to Eberron. Are you a
githyanki scout gathering information for a future
incursion... or a rebel who wants to protect the
world from such a fate? Are you here to hunt
mind flayers or to oppose the schemes of the
daelkyr? Or are you just a curious explorer?

GNOLLs

In ancient times, the gnolls were servants of the
fiendish Overlords. Some are savage creatures
that remain in the thrall of these demons. But
the largest population of gnolls is the Znir Pact
of Droaam. Thousands of years ago, these gnolls
purged themselves of demonic influence and
swore to never allow any other creature to hold
dominion over them. The Znir Pact sell their
services as soldiers and trackers. Most of the
Pact currently serves the Daughters of Sora Kell
in Droaam, but some fought in the Last War

as agents of House Tharashk, and Tharashk
continues to broker their services.

As a gnoll, you could be a former mercenary
who’s chosen to stay with comrades you met
during your service; as a rule, Znir gnolls are
deeply loyal to those that they consider to be
members of their pack. You might be driven
by curiosity, eager to explore the world beyond
Droaam. You could be driven by visions of a
demonic power rising in the Five Nations or
working on behalf of the Daughters of Sora
Kell. Or you could be a mercenary still, insisting
on regular payment for your ongoing services to
the party.

GoBLINOIDS

The goblinoid species—including goblins,
hobgoblins, and bugbears—were once the
dominant civilization in Khorvaire. The
goblinoid Empire of Dhakaan ruled most of
Khorvaire for thousands of years. It was crippled
by a long and bitter conflict with the daelkyr and
their aberrant armies; even though the daelkyr

CHAPTER 3 | OTHER RACES
were defeated, the seeds of madness took root in
the empire and tore it apart. Today, there are
four primary goblinoid cultures in Khorvaire.

Ciry GosLins

Goblins are found in most of the major cities

of the Five Nations. When humans first came

to Khorvaire, they enslaved many goblins and
built their cities on the foundations of Dhakaani
ruins. Galifar ended the practice of slavery, and
these goblins are technically citizens of the Five
Nations, but most remain as an impoverished
underclass found in slums and ghettos. However,
gifted goblins can be found in all walks of life,
and goblins served in the armies of the Five
Nations during the Last War.

THE GHAAL DAR

The Ghaal’dar tribes arose from the remnants

of the Dhakaani Empire. Hobgoblins are the
leaders of the Ghaal’dar, enforcing their will

on the goblins and bugbears. The history of the
Ghaal’dar is filled with strife; when they weren’t
fighting with Galifar or Zilargo, the tribes usually
turned on one another. This came to an end with
the Last War. House Deneith hired Ghaal’dar
mercenaries, and this gave focus to the divided
tribes. A brilliant hobgoblin, Haruuc, united the
Ghaal’dar and under his leadership they seized
control of what is now Darguun (see chapter 2).
The aging Lhesh Haruuc remains as the ruler

of Darguun, and many fear that his death could
throw the region into chaos.

Among the Ghaal’dar, you hold your place
through cunning and strength. As a Ghaal’dar
goblinoid, you may have been a former
mercenary now seeking adventure. You could be
working as an emissary for one of the Ghaal’dar
tribes, or even Lhesh Haruuc himself. Or you
could have been driven from your tribe by the
actions of a rival; perhaps you’re seeking allies to
reclaim your birthright.

--- PAGE 85 ---

THe MARGUUL

The Marguul bugbears threw off the yoke of
the Ghaal’dar long ago, seizing territory in the
Seawall Mountains in the south of Darguun.
They are infamous raiders, and while they have
brokered a truce with the Ghaal’dar, anyone
venturing into the Seawall Mountains had best
travel with a Marguul guide.

As a Marguul bugbear, you are savage and
proud of it. The Marguul worship the Mockery
and believe in victory by any means necessary:
there is no such thing as honor on the battlefield.
It’s certainly an unusual choice for a player
character, but if you’ve taken a liking to a
particular group of the small folk, you could be a
powerful ally.

Tue Heirs oF DHAKAAN

Though the Dhakaani Empire defeated the alien
daelkyr, the war left seeds of madness strewn
throughout the empire. As Dhakaan began

to fall, a number of generals and governors
gathered their forces and retreated into shelters
deep within the earth, determined to preserve
their civilization until the Empire could finally
be restored. After thousands of years, their
descendants have finally emerged. They are
competing among themselves to determine which
leader deserves the Imperial crown; once this is
settled, they will turn to the conquest of Darguun
and Khorvaire.

The Dhakaani are far fewer in number than
the Ghaal’dar; they had to carefully limit their
population in their deep vaults. However,
they have held onto the martial discipline
and techniques that allowed their ancestors to
dominate the continent. Their weaponsmiths
are superior even to the artificers of House
Cannith, and they are experts in the working of
adamantine and other exotic metals. Anyone
who takes goblinoids for granted should be
surprised by the skills of the Dhakaani.
The Heirs of Dhakaan are an agnostic society
and don’t have clerics, paladins, or druids. Their
focus is on martial excellence, and their spiritual
leaders are bards, who inspire their warriors with
tales of past glory.

Among the Dhakaan, all goblinoids work
together, using their talents for the greater good.
Hobgoblins are the strategists and commanders,
typically having the skills of fighters, bards, or
rangers. Bugbears cultivate a focused battle rage
and are typically barbarians, serving as shock
troops. Goblins are largely artisans and laborers,
but exceptional goblins join the Ahesh’dar (“silent
folk”), learning the skills of rogue, monk, or
ranger. The khesh’dar are spreading agents across
the Five Nations, and you never know when a city
goblin might turn out to be a deadly assassin.

As an adventurer from a Dhakaani clan, why
are you working with the other player characters?
Are you a scout gathering information? Are
you searching for allies to defeat a rival clan,
or to support your own unlikely bid for the
Imperial throne? Are you an exile... and if so,
do you hope to regain your position, or have you
abandoned your ties to the Dhakaani?

KopoLps

Many kobolds live in simple tribes scattered
across Eberron. The Iredar kobolds claim

to be descended from the Progenitor Dragon
Eberron herself, and generally live in mountain
caverns. The Irvhir claim kinship with Khyber
and live in deep caverns. While these claims are
unlikely, many kobolds do develop some degree
of sorcerous ability. In addition to these tribal
kobolds, there’s a large population of kobolds

in the nation of Droaam. Traditionally these
kobolds have been enslaved by more powerful
creatures; now the Daughters of Sora Kell have
granted them their own domain under their
warlord Kethelrax the Cunning. Beyond this, a
handful of Kobolds can be found scattered across
Khorvaire, sometimes mingling with the city
goblins in the great cities.

CHAPTER 3 | OTHER RACES

85

--- PAGE 86 ---

86

LIZARDFOLK

The lizardfolk of Khorvaire dwell in the region
known as Q’barra. Most are part of a tribal
alliance known as the Cold Sun Federation.
Their civilization is ancient, but they are quite
primitive by the standards of the Five Nations
and they’ve never sought to expand beyond
Q’barra. Over the last thirty years humans have
begun to settle Q’barra. Treaties have been
established with the Cold Sun Federation, but
communication is difficult and there have been
clashes started by forces on both sides.

As a lizardfolk, you may be a scout sent out
into the wider world to learn more about these
mysterious soft-skinned creatures. You might be
driven by a mysterious dream. You could have
been driven from your tribe for a crime; what
was it, and are you actually guilty?

MINOTAURS

In Eberron, minotaurs are found in the
monstrous nation of Droaam. Most minotaurs
worship an entity commonly called the Horned
Prince, but each clan has its own personal
interpretation and name for the Prince. Some
present the Horned Prince as a savage demon
who must be satiated with the blood of enemies.
Other clans see the prince as a noble war god—
analogous to Dol Dorn and Dol Arrah—who
demands that his children display both courage
and honor on the battlefield. While the cruel
minotaurs are primarily encountered as raiders
on the borders of Droaam, honorable minotaurs
often work with House Tharashk and serve as
mercenaries in the Five Nations.

As a minotaur character, decide on your version
of the Horned Prince and how this affects you. Are
you a former mercenary seeking adventure? Are
you following a divine mission? Are you working
for House Tharashk, a minotaur warlord, or the
Daughters of Sora Kell?

CHAPTER 3 | OTHER RACES
Orcs

The orcs are an ancient race. Their ancestors
were scattered by the Dhakaani goblins, and
they largely live in harsh and unwanted lands:
the swamps of the Shadow Marches, the Demon
Wastes, the depths of the Ironroot Mountains.

The orcs of Eberron weren’t formed by
Gruumsh, and they aren’t inherently driven to
evil. However, they are an extremely passionate
and primal race, given to powerful emotion and
deep faith. The Ghaash’kala orcs of the Demon
Wastes are servants of the Silver Flame who
devote their lives to battling the fiends of the
Wastes. The Gatekeeper druids of the Shadow
Marches were the first druids on Khorvaire.
The Gatekeepers played a crucial role in
defeating the alien daelkyr and binding this evil
in Khyber, and their descendants continue to
maintain the ancient seals and fight aberrations.
However, many orcs were corrupted by the
daelkyr and embraced the madness of the Cults
of the Dragon Below. These cultists also live
in the Shadow Marches, and battles between
Gatekeepers and the servants of the Dragon
Below have diminished both sides.

Beyond the Gatekeepers and the cultists, the
Shadow Marches are home to orcs who have
joined with humans to create mixed clans. The
dragonmarked House Tharashk arose from this
union. While full orcs cannot carry the Mark of
Finding they are an important part of the house
and can be found across Khorvaire as part of
Tharashk operations.

As an orc, you could be a Ghaash’kala paladin
seeking to protect the innocent from evil. You
might be a Gatekeeper druid or ranger hunting
aberrations working to prevent the return of
the daelkyr. You could be a barbarian or a
warlock driven by the mad dreams of the Cults
of the Dragon Below. Or you could just be an
unmarked member of House Tharashk, seeking
your fortune in the wider world!

--- PAGE 87 ---

TIEFLINGS

Tieflings are rarely seen in Eberron, but there
are a few paths for a tiefling characters.

Many tieflings are born to the Carrion Tribes,
the barbarians who live in the Demon Wastes.
Such tieflings are touched by the fiendish forces
bound beneath the Wastes and are considered
to be blessed by the tribes. If you’re playing
such a tiefling, why have you left the Wastes? It
could be that you were destined to serve an evil
purpose—perhaps even serving as an avatar for
an imprisoned demon Overlord—and you are
fleeing from that destiny.

Other tieflings are shaped not by demonic
powers, but by the influence of the planes. Such
tieflings may be born in manifest zones when
planes are coterminous. Planar tieflings are
isolated oddities, often seen as exotic and strange,
but not necessarily evil.

There is one tiefling nation in Khorvaire:
The Venomous Demesne, a city-state hidden
on the far side of Droaam. The tieflings of
the Venomous Demesne are descended from
Sarlonan mages who bargained with dark

powers, and the lords of the Demesne are
powerful warlocks and wizards. The Venomous
Demesne has had no significant contact with the
Five Nations and few people know it exists; your
character could be an envoy, an exile, or simply
an adventurer driven by a desire to see what lies
beyond your magical kingdom.

CHAPTER 3 | OTHER RACES 87

--- PAGE 88 ---

88

OTHERS

What about kenku in Eberron? How about
tritons or tabaxi? How do genasi fit into things?
There’s a place for everything in Eberron, but it’s
always up to the DM to decide how significant
that place 1s. If you want to play a member of a
race that hasn’t been addressed here, talk with
your DM and come up with an option. What
role do you want the race to play in the world?

Widespread. It’s always possible to change
the default assumptions of the setting. If both you
and your DM like the idea that the Dhakaani
Empire was a nation of goliaths rather than
goblinoids, you can make that change. So there’s
nothing wrong with adding a new race into the
common population of the Five Nations, as long
as everyone likes the idea of it.

Exotic. There are many places in Eberron
where a small population of unusual creatures
could exist. Perhaps there’s a lost city of tabaxi
in the jungles of Xen’drik, or a clan of Kenku
dwelling at the top of Sharn’s tallest tower. The
Mourning could have transformed a city of
humans into bee-people. As with dragonborn or
tieflings, this allows these races to have some sort
of culture to interact with but keeps them from
affecting the world in a significant way.

Unique. When introducing a character of an
unusual race, one option is to say that you’re
the only member of that race. Perhaps you
were created by the mysterious daelkyr
or the brilliant transmuter Mordain
the Fleshweaver. Maybe you’re
the result of magebreeding
experiments conducted by
House Vadalis and House Jorasco. Perhaps you
began life as a member of another race and were
transformed by the Mourning.

While the DM always has the final say as
to whether to allow an unusual race into the
campaign, the important thing is to determine
the story you’re looking for!

CHAPTER 3 | OTHER RACES

--- PAGE 89 ---

CHAPTER 4: DRAGONMARKS

A halfling healer touches a dying man; the
mark on her forehead blazes with blue
Sire as his wounds close and vanish.

A half-orc bounty hunter reaches out

with the power of his mark to find

his prey. A human artificer touches

a creation forge and the symbol on

her hand flares as the eldritch machine
rumbles to life.

ACH OF THESE PEOPLE

possesses a dragonmark,

a symbol etched on the

skin in colors more vivid

than any tattoo. This
sigil is a source of mystical power. A
dragonmark enhances the user’s ability
to perform certain tasks. The Mark of
Making guides the hands of the smith,
while the Mark of Shadows helps its
bearer avoid enemies. The power of a
dragonmark can also manifest in more
dramatic ways. An heir with the Mark of

Storms can scatter enemies with a blast

of wind, while someone with the Mark &
of Shadows can weave illusions. While

these effects may function in the same

way as spells, the power is drawn and focused
through the dragonmark.

You can’t buy a dragonmark, or simply
choose to develop one. Each mark is tied to
specific bloodlines. A dragonmark appears
around adolescence, but not every heir
manifests the mark. Long ago the families
that carry the marks joined together to form
the dragonmarked houses. Over the course of
centuries, the houses have used their gifts to
establish powerful economic monopolies. House
Jorasco holds the Mark of Healing, and Jorasco
maintains the vast majority of healing houses
and clinics. Only House Lyrandar heirs with
the Mark of Storms can pilot airships. Control

over vital services—medicine, transportation,
communication, manufacturing— gives the
houses tremendous power.

In the past, the dragonmarked houses were
held in check by the united kingdom of Galifar.
But in the wake of the Last War, people
wonder if any one nation has the power to
enforce its wishes on the houses. Some say the
dragonmarked barons wield more power than
kings and queens.

CHAPTER 4 | DRAGONMARKS 89

--- PAGE 90 ---

90

CREATING A
DRAGONMARKED CHARACTER

Dragonmarks are associated with race, depicted
by a combination of variant races and subraces.
¢ For humans and half-orcs, a dragonmark
is a variant race that replaces normal traits
associated with those races.

¢ For half-elves, a dragonmark is a variant
race. You keep some of the standard half-
elf traits and replace others with the traits
associated with your mark.

¢ For dwarves, elves, gnomes, and halflings,
the dragonmark replaces your subrace.

So, if you’re making an elf character, you can
choose to take the Mark of Shadow instead of
being a wood elf or high elf.

There are two additional options related to
dragonmarks. As your dragonmarked character
grows in level, you can take the Greater
Dragonmark feat to reflect the growing power
of your dragonmark. Alternatively, the Aberrant
Dragonmark feat grants limited but dangerous
magical abilities. Aberrant dragonmarks aren’t
tied to the dragonmark houses and can be taken
by any character.

DRAGONMARKS AND HOUSES TABLE

Dragonmark House Race
Detection Medani Half-Elf
Finding Tharashk Human, Half-Orc
Handling Vadalis Human
Healing Jorasco Halfling
Hospitality Ghallanda Halfling
Making Cannith Human
Passage Orien Human
Scribing Sivis Gnome
Sentinel Deneith Human
Shadow Phiarlan Elf
Thuranni Elf
Storm Lyrandar Half-Elf
Warding Kundarak Dwarf

CHAPTER 4 | CREATING A DRAGONMARKED CHARAC
DRAGONMARKS
AND BACKGROUNDS

Dragonmarks are bound to certain bloodlines,
and by choosing a mark you are establishing

that your character has a blood connection to
one of the families in the dragonmarked houses.
However, it’s up to you to decide on your
relationship to the house. Were you brought up
in the house? Or are you completely independent
from it? This is best represented by your
background. Consider the following options.

Agent. You have a close, ongoing relationship
with your house. The house agent background
is a good choice if you are actively working for
the house. Alternately, you could take the noble
background to reflect a blood tie to the leaders of
the house.

Independent Scion. You were raised or
trained by the house, but you’ve kept your
independence. This means you don’t have
many special privileges, but you also don’t have
responsibilities. Guild artisan is a good choice to
reflect basic house training, but you could choose
entertainer for the Mark of Shadow, sailor for the
Mark of Storms, soldier for the Mark of Sentinel,
sage for the Mark of Scribing, and so on.

Guild Specialties

Bodyguards, Investigation, Risk Management
Bounty Hunting, Investigation, Prospecting
Animal Training and Breeding

Healing

Food, Lodging, Urban Information
Manufacturing

Land Transportation

Communication, Translation, Verification
Bodyguards, Mercenaries

Entertainment, Espionage

Entertainment, Assassination

Air and Sea Transportation

Banking, Storage, Prisons

‘TER

--- PAGE 91 ---

Excoriate. When a dragonmarked heir defies
their house, they may be cut off from it. In the
past, your mark would be flayed from your body.
Although this mutilation is no longer practiced,
such exiles are still called excoriates. If you’re an
excoriate, consider what you did to deserve this
punishment. Were you a criminal? A charlatan?
Or perhaps a sage who engaged in forbidden
research?

Foundling. Your ancestors left the house
long ago. You have no ties to the house and may
not have known you were connected by blood
before you manifested your dragonmark. As an
outlander or an urchin you might know nothing
about the houses. As an acolyte or hermit, you
could have put your faith ahead of worldly
things, choosing not to pursue a connection
with the houses. Whatever you decide, this is an
opportunity to talk with your DM about the role
you'd like the house to play in a campaign. Do
you want them to be your enemy? Would you
prefer to avoid them completely? Or do you want
to work your way into a position of power in the
house, despite being an outsider?

THE Powers OF THE Mark

Each dragonmark grants a set of abilities that
reflect the inherent powers of the mark. For most
marks this includes an Intuition die. This can
reflect supernatural instincts or guidance from
the mark, or other minor magical effects. Many
dragonmarks grant limited magical abilities.
Over the centuries the houses have developed
tools that enhance and channel the powers of a
mark, and it’s these dragonmark focus items that
give the houses much of their power.

A dragonmarked race gives you a very specific
set of traits. However, you can also explain your
class abilities as being a result of your exceptional
connection to your dragonmark:

¢ Ifyou’re playing a bard with the Mark of

Shadow, you could say that your illusion
spells are drawn from your mark. If you’re
a halfling bard with the Mark of Healing,
you could describe your mark as the source
of your healing magic.
¢ Asa life cleric with the Mark of Healing,
you're able to use your mark to channel
positive energy and perform remarkable
feats of healing. You could combine this with
religious faith or you could say that the mark
alone is the source of your divine magic.

¢ Ifyou’re a warlock with an aberrant
dragonmark, you could say that the mark
itself is your fiendish patron and the source
of your arcane powers. You don’t fully
understand the nature of your mark, but
you know that it’s growing stronger and
youre afraid you might lose control of it.

These descriptions don’t change your
character’s abilities in any way. It’s simply a way
to add flavor and story to your character. Though
if you’re channeling divine power through your
dragonmark, you might use a crystal (normally an
arcane focus) as your holy symbol, representing a
makeshift dragonmark focus item.

InturTion Dice

A dragonmark improves your ability to perform
a specific type of task. The Mark of Finding
sharpens your senses and improves your
perception, while the Mark of Making guides
your hands when you work with artisan’s tools.

Each dragonmark has a trait that allows you to
roll an Intuition die, a d4, when you perform an
ability check with a particular skill or tool. You
add the number rolled to the ability check. You
don’t have to be proficient with the skill or tool to
gain this benefit.

Feats, magic items, and other features may
improve your Intuition die. This increases the
type of die you roll by one size (d6, d8, d10) to
a maximum of a d10. You can only roll one
Intuition die for a check; if you receive Intuition
dice from multiple sources, increase one die by
one type and roll that one.

For example, if a dragonmarked trait and feat
both grant intuition with Dexterity (Stealth)
checks, you roll a d6, instead of a d4. Three
instances would increase your Intuition Die to a
d8, and so on.

CHAPTER 4 | THE POWERS OF THE MARK

91

--- PAGE 92 ---

DRAGONMARK APPEARANCE

A dragonmark is a distinctive symbol that
appears on the skin. There are twelve known
dragonmarks, each unique in design and power.
A dragonmark can appear on any part of the
body. One half-elf could have the Mark of
Detection across an eye, while another has it

in the palm of their hand. Dragonmarks are
painted in vivid shades of blue and purple

and seem to shimmer or even move slightly.
When used, they grow warm to the touch and
may glow (though this doesn’t produce useful
illumination). A dragonmark can’t be removed—
even if a limb bearing a dragonmark is cut away,
the mark eventually manifests on another part
of the bearer’s body. All dragonmarks share the
same initial appearance but a dragonmark can
grow in size and complexity if a character takes
the Greater Dragonmark feat or if the mark is tied to
class abilities.

While dragonmarks share the same general
appearance, your dragonmark could have a
unique quality. If you’d like to explore this, roll
on the Dragonmark Quirks table.

DRAGONMARK QUIRKS
1d6 = Quirk

1 Your dragonmark is unusually small or
remarkably large.

2 Your dragonmark slowly moves
around your body.

3 Your dragonmark glows dramatically
when you use it.

4 Your dragonmark tingles when you’re
near someone with the same mark.

5 Your dragonmark tickles when you
use it.

6 Your dragonmark is an unusual color
but a normal shape.

92 CHAPTER 4 | DRAGONMARK APPEARANCE

--- PAGE 93 ---

ALL ABOUT THE Houses!

Every house has traditions, cabals, and
secrets. Here’s a few facts that apply to most
of the houses.

Most Dragonmarked houses maintain
enclaves in major cities. These serve
as hubs for house businesses and
strongholds for the house families.

A city may also have any number

of businesses tied to the house—a
Ghallanda inn, a Cannith smith, a Sivis
message station—but these are simply
providing services and don’t have any
direct connection to house leadership.

Any heir of the house who develops

a dragonmark is allowed to add the

d’ prefix to the house name: Merrix
d’Cannith. Regional leaders within the
houses are called Barons. Most houses
are led by a matriarch or patriarch,
though some are led by councils.

The Twelve is an organization

that facilitates communication

and cooperation between the
Dragonmarked houses. Excoriates are
dragonmarked heirs who have been cut
off from their houses. Foundlings are
people who develop a mark outside of
a house and have no connection to it.

Dragonmarks manifest around
adolescence. Each house puts its

heirs through a trial called The Test

of Siberys. The specific trials vary

by house, but they place the heir in
circumstances where they are likely to
manifest the mark, if they have it. About
half of the members of a bloodline
manifest the mark.

The Korth Edicts prevent the houses
from owning land, holding noble titles,
or maintaining military forces (with an
exception for Deneith). The Edicts were
established long ago when the Five
Nations were united. Today, many in
the houses feel the Korth Edicts have
become obsolete in the wake of the
Last War.

CHAPTER 4 | BACKGROUND

93

--- PAGE 94 ---

BACKGROUND

Here is an important background for Eberron.

House AcENt

You have sworn fealty to a dragonmarked house,
one of the mighty mercantile guilds that shapes
Khorvaire. If you possess a dragonmark, you’re
likely a member of one of the influential families
within the house, otherwise you’re an outsider
who hopes to make your fortune by allying with
this great power. Your primary task is to observe,
gathering useful information and serving as the
eyes of your house. But you could be called upon
at any time to act as a hand of the house. Such
missions can be dangerous—but they’ll surely be
lucrative.

Skill Proficiencies: Investigation, Persuasion

Tool Proficiency: Two tools by house:

*  Cannith: alchemist’s supplies and tinker’s
tools

¢ Deneith: one gaming set and vehicles (land)

¢ Ghallanda: brewer’s supplies and cook’s
utensils

¢ orasco: alchemist’s supplies and herbalism
kit
¢ Kundarak: tinker’s tools and thieves’ tools

¢ Lyrandar: vehicles (sea/air) and navigator’s
tools

¢ Medani: thieves’ tools and disguise kit
¢ Onn: vehicles (land) and one gaming set

¢  Phaarlan: disguise kit and one musical
instrument

¢  Swis: calligrapher’s tools and forgery kit
¢  Tharashk: thieves’ tools and one gaming set

¢ Thuranni: poisoner’s kit and one musical
instrument

¢ Vadalis: vehicles (land) and herbalism kit

Equipment: A set of fine clothes, house signet
ring, ID papers, and a purse containing 20 gp.

94 CHAPTER 4 | BACKGROUND
ROLE

You are always gathering information for your
house. But when the barons come to you with a
specific mission, what sort of work do you usually
do? Choose your role or roll on the table below.

HOUSE AGENT ROLE

d8 Role
Acquisition
Investigation

Research & Development
Security

Intimidation

Exploration

Negotiation

Covert Operations

ON DU BWNPB

--- PAGE 95 ---

FEATURE: House ConNECTIONS

As an agent of your house, you can always get
food and lodging for your friends at a house
enclave. When the house assigns you a mission,
it will usually provide you with necessary supplies
and transportation. Beyond this, you have many
old friends, mentors, and rivals in your house
and you may encounter one of them when you
interact with a house business. As a Lyrandar
agent you may know the captain of an airship; as
a Ghallanda agent you know a lot of innkeepers
and bartenders. The degree to which such
acquaintances will be willing to help you out will
depend on your current standing in your house.

SUGGESTED CHARACTERISTICS

House agents are a diverse lot. Consider the
house you serve and the type of work you do in
developing or selecting characteristics.

d8 Personality Trait
| never let emotion complicate work.
I’m always looking to improve efficiency.
| share trivia about my house’s business
(medicine, ships, warforged).

4 | hold myself and anyone | work with to
extremely high standards.

5 | never forget an insult made against
myself or my house.

6 I’m very excited and enthusiastic about
everything my house does.

7 I’m representing my house and take great
pride in my personal appearance.

8 I’m critical of monarchies and opposed to
any restrictions on the houses.
d6

d6

d6

Ideal

Common Good. My house serves a vital
function, and its prosperity will help
everyone. (Good)

Tradition. | uphold traditions of my house
and bring honor to my family. (Lawful)
Innovation. Abandon old traditions and
find better ways to do things. (Chaotic)
Power. | want to ensure the prosperity of
my house and wield its power myself. (Evil)
Discovery. | want to learn all | can, both for
my house and for my own curiosity. (Any)
Comfort. | want to ensure that me and
mine enjoy the best things in life. (Any)

Bond

My house is my family, and! would do
anything for my family.

| love someone from another house, but
such relationships are forbidden.
Someone | love was killed bya rival
faction within my house, and | will have
revenge.

| don’t care about the house as a whole,
but | would do anything for my old
mentor.

| believe my house needs to evolve to
survive, and | need to lead that change.

| am determined to impress the leaders of
my house, and to become a leader myself.

Flaw

I’m overly concemed with following
established procedures and protocols.

I’m obsessed with conspiracy theories and
worried about secret societies and hidden
demons.

| believe that my house and bloodline
makes me better than everyone else.

I’m concealing a secret that could get me
driven from my house.

| have strong religious beliefs that aren’t
shared by others in my house.

I’m working for a hidden faction in my
house that gives me secret assignments.

CHAPTER 4 | BACKGROUND

95

--- PAGE 96 ---

96

THE Mark oF DETECTION

“Tfyou want a wall of muscle to get between you
and a blade, go to House Deneith. If you want
someone to anticipate the threat and make sure you
aren’t even in the room with whoever’s holding
that blade... that’s what we do.”

—Baron Trelib d’Medani

The Mark of Detection is an inquisitive’s dream.
It sharpens powers of observation and intuition,
allowing the bearer to draw connections and
interpret clues others might miss. By actively
drawing on its powers, the bearer can detect
poisons and study the energies of magic.

House MEDANI

The Warning Guild of House Medani brokers
the services of bodyguards and inquisitives.
Medani advisors specialize in risk assessment
and management, protecting clients from both
physical and social threats. While Medani
overlaps with the inquisitives of House Tharashk
and the bodyguards of House Deneith, the
Warning Guild specializes in subtle threats and
complex mysteries.

The members of House Medani are half-elves
with deep roots in Breland. Medani has little
interest in the power struggles that sometimes
break out between the other dragonmarked
houses. Many Medani heirs are more interested
in helping their communities than in raw profit,
and Medani heirs often work with local law
enforcement or help those who can’t afford their
services.

DRAGONMARKED CHARACTERS

Here are a few examples of characters with the
Mark of Detection.

House Agent Bard. With the kind of threats
your house deals with, words are often more
effective than weapons. You serve as one of

CHAPTER 4 | THE MARK OF DETECTION
the eyes of the house, listening for rumors and
watching for dangerous cabals and conspiracies.
Along the way you do your best to mediate
disputes and defuse dangerous situations.

Rogue Folk Hero. You’re an inquisitive
trained by your house. You grew up in a bad
neighborhood, and while you could make more
gold solving the problems of nobles, you’re more
interested in helping your community. You’ve
had a few good cases and you’ve helped a lot of
people, and word has spread.

Sage Wizard. You're a brilliant diviner and
inquisitive, and your talents have gotten you
into trouble. You have a knack for uncovering
conspiracies, and you found one in House
Medani. It might involve shape-changed
demons or dragons—or both. You don’t know
how deep it goes, but you’re certain that other
dragonmarked houses and noble families have
been infiltrated. People think you’re a little
intense. Some say paranoid. But you'll show
them all when you finally get to the bottom of
this draconic conspiracy!

Mark oF DETECTION TRAITS

The Mark of Detection manifests exclusively

on half-elves. If your character has the Mark of
Detection, these traits replace the half-elf’s Ability
Score Increase, Skill Versatility, and Languages
given in the Player’s Handbook.

Ability Score Increase. Your Intelligence
and Charisma scores both increase by 1. In
addition, one ability score of your choice
increases by 1.

Deductive Intuition. When you make an
Intelligence (Investigation) or Wisdom (Insight)
check, you can roll one Intuition die, a d4, and
add the number rolled to the ability check.

Sense Threats. You can cast the detect magic
and detect poison and disease spells, but only as
rituals. Intelligence is your spellcasting ability for
these spells.

Languages. You can speak, read, and write
Common and Elvish.

--- PAGE 97 ---

THE MARK OF FINDING

“My ancestors used their gift to track beasts in the
swamps. I use mane to find fugitwes in the slums of
Sharn. I’m still a hunter. I always find my mark.”

—Hondar’Aashta,
Tharashk bounty hunter

The Mark of Finding sharpens the senses,
guiding the hunter to prey. Alone among the
dragonmarks, the Mark of Finding is carried by
two races: humans and half-orcs. It first appeared
in the Shadow Marches, where clan hunters

used it to find their prey. The mark helped unite
humans and orcs in the Marches and brought
House Tharashk to the Five Nations.

House THARASHK

House Tharashk traditionally licenses inquisitives
and bounty hunters. Recently the Finder’s Guild
has expanded into dragonshard prospecting.
Dragonshards are the lifesblood of the magical
economy. A talent for finding this resource has
given the house new wealth and influence.
Tharashk is the youngest of the dragonmarked
houses and hasn’t embraced all of the customs
of the Twelve. Heirs often use family names
instead of the house surname and many hold on
to beliefs and traditions carried from the Shadow
Marches—ke the druidic faith of the Gatekeepers
or secretive cults of the Dragon Below.

DRAGONMARKED CHARACTERS

Here are examples of characters with this mark.
Druid House Agent. House Tharashk is
home to an ancient order of druids who protect
the world from aberrant threats. Although you
are officially an operative of the house, you are
truly an agent of the Gatekeepers, and investigate
the activities of mad cultists and the Daelkyr.
Criminal Rogue. You’re an inquisitive who
works the mean streets of Sharn. You’ve got
friends on both sides of the law. Sometimes you
walk a crooked line to unravel a tough case.

MARK OF FINDING TRAITS

The Mark of Finding can appear on either
humans or half-orcs. If your character has the
Mark of Finding, these traits replace all racial
traits given in the Player’s Handbook aside from
Age, Size, and Speed. Your Ability Score
Increase depends on your race, while all other
traits are shared by both humans and half-orcs.

Ability Score Increase (Human). As a
human, your Dexterity and Wisdom scores both
increase by 1. In addition, one ability score of
your choice increases by 1.

Ability Score Increase (Half-Orc). As a
half-orc, your Strength and Wisdom scores both
increase by 1. In addition, one ability score of
your choice increases by 1.

Darkvision. You can see in dim light within
60 feet of you as ifit were bright light, and in
darkness as if it were dim light. You can’t discern
color in darkness, only shades of gray.

Hunter’s Intuition. Your mark sharpens your
senses and helps you find your prey. When you
make a Wisdom (Perception) or Wisdom (Survival)
check, you can roll one Intuition die, a d4, and
add the number rolled to the ability check.

Imprint Prey. As a bonus action, choose one
creature you can see within 30 feet of you. The
target is imprinted in your mind until it dies or
you use this trait again. Alternatively, you can
imprint a creature as your quarry whenever you
succeed on a Wisdom (Survival) check to track it.

When tracking your quarry, double the result
of your Intuition die. When your quarry is within
60 feet of you, you have a sense of its location: it
can’t be hidden from you, gains no benefit from
invisibility, and your attacks against it ignore half
cover. Once you use this trait, you cannot use it
again until you finish a short or long rest.

Nature’s Voice. When you reach 3rd level
you gain the ability to cast locate animal or plant,
but only as a ritual.

Languages. You can speak, read, and write
Common and Goblin.

CHAPTER 4 | THE MARK OF FINDING

97

--- PAGE 98 ---

98

THE Mark OF HANDLING

“Don’t get sentimental. A beast is a tool. Our role
as to find the right tool for the task and to make
sure they're of the finest quality. Nature 1s our
kingdom; never forget that we were born to rule it.”

— Baron Hella d’Vadalis

The Mark of Handling gives its bearer a primal
connection to beasts and the natural world,
granting the power to calm and coax. This extends
beyond purely natural animals; the mark allows its
bearer to guide a hippogriff as easily as a horse.

House VADALIs

House Vadalis plays an important role in daily
life. Vadalis ranches produce meat, mounts, and
more. Vadalis isn’t one of the most powerful
houses, but its barons are generally content;
they’re more interested in discovering new
monstrosities than engaging in the politics of the
dragonmarked houses.

House Vadalis breeds and trains beasts for a
wide range of purposes. While they maintain
vast cattle ranches and train horses and hounds,
the Mark of Handling allows Vadalis to work
with more exotic creatures as well. Griffons,
hippogriffs, and even bullettes can be bred and
trained. Vadalis also works with more intelligent
beasts, such as giant owls, displacers beasts, and
pegasi. Even with the Mark of Handling, this is
dangerous work; there’s a lot of turnover at the
bullette ranch. But these exotic creatures aren’t
enough to satisfy the most innovative members
of the house, and this has led to the practice of
magebreeding. Using the Mark of Handling and
dragonshard focus items, Vadalis has found ways
to create magical creatures. Typically, this results
in a superior version of a mundane creature—an
animal that is stronger, faster, and smarter. But
rumors claim that Vadalis has crafted monsters
of its own. Some rumors even insist that Vadalis
has been trying to magebreed better humans...

CHAPTER 4 | THE MARK OF HANDLING
DRAGONMARKED CHARACTERS

Some characters with the Mark of Handling:
Noble Druid. Your family is one of the most
powerful in the house, and they’ve learned to use
its power to do amazing things: shapeshifting,
manipulating animals and the world. While you’re
mechanically a druid, you don’t share any druidic
beliefs; rather, you believe that your mark gives
you rightful dominion over the natural world.
Ranger House Agent. You’ve been trained
to track and handle the wildest monstrosities.
You’re still mastering your skills, but you want
to get out into the world and discover new beasts
that have never been harnessed—new creatures
that you can bring back to your house.
Outlander Druid. Your dragonmark gives
you a powerful connection to the natural world.
You hate what your house is doing with this
power—turning this gift into a business, exploiting
the creatures you’re connected to. You have
abandoned the house and loathe them all now.

Mark OF HANDLING TRAITS

The Mark of Handling only manifests on
humans. If your character has the Mark of
Handing, these traits replace the human’s Ability
Score Increase trait given in the Player’s Handbook.

Ability Score Increase. Your Dexterity and
Wisdom scores both increase by 1. In addition,
one ability score of your choice increases by 1.

Wild Intuition. When you make a Wisdom
(Animal Handling) or Intelligence (Nature) check,
you can roll one Intuition die, a d4, and add the
number rolled to the ability check.

Expert Handling. You can use the Help
action to aid an ally animal companion or mount
within 30 feet of you, rather than 5 feet of you.

Primal Connection. You can cast animal

Jriendship once with this trait and regain the ability
to do so when you finish a short or long rest.
Wisdom is your spellcasting ability for this spell.

The Bigger They Are. When you cast a spell
that affects only beasts, it also affects monstrosities
with an Intelligence score of 3 or lower.

--- PAGE 99 ---

THE MARK OF HEALING

“What’s the price of a life? Well, I’ve got a rate
sheet right over here. I'd be happy to discuss tt.”

— Bessi d’Jorasco, Fairhaven healer

A halfling with the Mark of Healing can save a
life with a touch, restoring vitality and the will to
live. When dealing with mundane medicine, the
mark helps its bearer sense the nature of maladies
and afflictions and find the best solution. When
equipped with dragonshard focus items, the mark
can even draw the dead back from the depths of
Dolurrh.

House Jorasco

The Healer’s Guild provides a vital service

to Khorvaire, and the Last War ensured that
there was great need for healers. The guild runs
the schools that teach medicine and houses of
healing that provide both mundane and magical
services. If it could save a life, it’s probably tied
to Jorasco... and it will come with a cost. If
you have the gold, Jorasco healers can remove
a disease instantly with lesser restoration. If you
can’t afford such a service, they will treat you
with mundane techniques (the Medicine skill).
House Jorasco is also the source of potions of
healing. While many criticize Jorasco’s demands
for payment, the leaders of the house maintain
that it’s not about greed; it’s about ensuring the
survival and prosperity of the house, so they can
continue to help future generations.

While the public face of Jorasco is that of the
healer, there are rumors that the house engaged
in disturbing experiments during the Last War,
working with House Vadalis to develop biological
weapons and strange new creatures. A Jorasco
heir will have to decide if they want to investigate
these rumors... and what they’ll do if the rumors
are true.
DRAGONMARKED CHARACTERS

Here are a few examples of characters who carry
the Mark of Healing.

Noble Cleric. You are one of the heirs of
Baron Ulara, the matriarch of House Jorasco.
Your mark is remarkable (and the source of your
clerical abilities) and you feel that you’re just
beginning to unlock its power. Are you willing to
devote your abilities to your house? Or do you
think that you may have a greater calling?

Folk Hero Bard. You served as a medic in
the Last War, using humor and stories to keep up
the spirits of your patients. You’ve seen too much
suffering, and you need to do something about it.
You’ve broken away from the house and you’ve
been doing charitable work in your community.
But you want to find a way to do more.

Criminal Rogue. You grew up as an orphan
in Sharn. One of your parents must have been
tied to Jorasco, but you found a different family:
the Boromar Clan, a criminal guild run by
halflings. You’ve learned how to heal and how to
hurt people. Now you need to decide which path
you want to follow.

Mark OF HEALING TRAITS

The Mark of Healing manifests exclusively on
halflings. If your character has the Mark of
Healing, this is your halfling subrace.

Ability Score Increase. Your Wisdom score
increases by 1.

Medical Intuition. When you make a
Wisdom (Medicine) check, you can roll one
Intuition die, a d4, and add the number rolled to
the ability check.

Healing Touch. As an action, you can
draw power from your dragonmark to spend
one of your Hit Dice and revitalize yourself or
a creature you touch. Roll the die, add your
Wisdom modifier, and the creature regains a
number of hit points equal to the total. Once
you use this trait, you can’t use it again until you
finish a short or long rest.

CHAPTER 4 | THE MARK OF HEALING

99

--- PAGE 100 ---

100

THE Mark OF Hospitatity

“Welcome, welcome! So good to see you again. Let
me get your drink—blackroot tal with honey, yes?
And then you have to listen to this story Pve heard
about the strange things going on in the Cogs. ”

— Alara d’Ghallanda, halfling bartender

They may not always have gold, but a halfling
with the Mark of Hospitality is sure to be rich

in friends. The magic of the mark allows the
bearer to keep a place clean, and to heat, chill,
and season food. But it also helps the bearer
connect with others, setting troubled minds at
ease—a powerful tool, though it can cause anger
if abused.

House GHALLANDA

The majority of inns, taverns, and restaurants
in the Five Nations are either directly owned by
House Ghallanda or licensed by its Hosteler’s
Guild. Most people give little thought to House
Ghallanda; when compared to the soldiers

of House Deneith and the factories of House
Cannith, an alliance of innkeepers seems
harmless and inconsequential. But Ghallanda’s
strength lies in charm and connections. A
Ghallanda innkeeper hears many things—if
you want to know what’s really going on in

a community, talk to the halfling bartender.
The leaders of House Ghallanda don’t sell
information; they prefer to build friendship and
deal in favors. But should a Ghallanda baron
every truly need something, they likely have a
favor they can call in.

Ghallanda has a number of “bound
businesses”—franchises run directly by the house.
The Gold Dragon Inn is such a business, and
Gold Dragon Inns can be found in every major
city, each serving a familiar menu and providing
similar services. But many Ghallanda heirs take
pride in creating their own unique businesses.
There are also many independent restaurants,

CHAPTER 4 | THE MARK OF HOSPITALITY
inns, and taverns that are licensed by Ghallanda.
The blink dog seal is an assurance that a locale
meets Ghallanda standards of health and
quality—but not every inn is run by a halfling.

DRAGONMARKED CHARACTERS

Here are some examples of characters who carry
the Mark of Hospitality.

Noble Warlock (Archfey). Your parents
run a score of Gold Dragon Inns. You’ve never
gotten your hands dirty with the family business;
you’ve been too busy doing important things,
like going to all the best parties. Just the other
day you were dancing with some Greensinger
druids, and they summoned some sort of
Archfey from Thelanis. Honestly, you don’t
remember all the details... it was one of those
parties... but it seems like you made some sort of
deal with this fey prince. You’re not sure exactly
what you agreed to; you’d better gather a few
friends and figure it out.

Guild Artisan Bard. You used to run the
finest bar in Cyre... until the Mourning destroyed
it. You knowa group of adventurers—regulars
from your lost tavern—and you're tagging along
with them until you figure out your next step.
Perhaps you'll earn enough gold to buy a new
bar... or perhaps you'll find a different path.

Mark oF Hospitaity Traits

The Mark of Hospitality manifests exclusively
on halflings. If your character has the Mark of
Hospitality, this is your halfling subrace.

Ability Score Increase. Your Charisma
score increases by 1.

Innkeeper’s Charms. You know the
cantrips friends and prestidigitation. Charisma is
your spellcasting ability for them.

Ever Hospitable. When you make a
Charisma (Persuasion) check or an ability check
involving brewer’s supplies or cook’s utensils,
you can roll one Intuition die (a d4) and add the
number rolled to the ability check.

--- PAGE 101 ---

THe MARK oF MAKING

“My house built the modern world. Orien may
dre the lightning rail, but it’s Cannith who
builds the cars and lays the stones wt travels on.
Cannith makes the everbright lanterns hold the
night at bay. Smith, carpenter, alchemist—the
best all carry my seal.”

— Baron Merrix d’Cannith

The Mark of Making guides its bearer through
any act of creation. The bearer of the mark can
mend broken things with a touch, and always
has a minor magic item they’ve been working
on. An artificer or a wizard will get the most out
of the mark, but anyone can find a use for an
enchanted blade.

House CANNITH

House Cannith dominates all forms of
manufacturing, both mystical and mundane.
Cannith forgeholds use streamlined forms of
production to quickly produce common goods.
Even independent artisans often learn their trade
at Cannith academies and adhere to Cannith
standards. The House of Making builds the tools
the other houses rely upon, and it has always
been the unspoken leader of the Twelve.

The Last War was a time of great opportunity
for Cannith. Every nation wanted weapons and
warforged, along with mundane arms and armor.
The war raised the house up, and then tore it
down. House Cannith was based in Cyre, and
the Mourning destroyed the house leadership
and key facilities. Now three barons jockey to fill
the leadership vacuum: the alchemist Jorlanna of
Fairhaven, weaponsmith Zorlan of Korth, and
warforged innovator Merrix of Sharn. It remains
to be seen whether one of these leaders will unite
the house, or if it will shatter under the strain.

If you’re an heir of House Cannith, you should
decide which of these barons you serve—or if you
have other ideas about the future of the house.
DRAGONMARKED CHARACTERS

Some characters with the Mark of Making:

Noble Wizard. Born to one of the most
powerful families in House Cannith, you’re a
diletante who has so far squandered your arcane
training. Will you find purpose in your life as an
adventurer? Or will the house demand that you
live up to the duties of your rank?

Criminal Artificer. Your parents were
excoriated from House Cannith for engaging in
forbidden research. They died when you were
young. You’ve never learned what they were
working on. But you inherited their talent for
artifice and you’ve been hiding in the shadows of
Sharn. It’s time to pursue your parents’ legacy.

Mark oF MaKING TRAITS

The Mark of Making only manifests on humans.
These traits replace the human Ability Score
Increase trait in the Player’s Handbook.

Ability Score Increase. Your Intelligence
and Dexterity scores increase by 1. Increase either
Intelligence or Dexterity by an additional | point.

Artisan’s Intuition. When you make an
ability check with artisan’s tools, roll 1d4 and add
it to the result.

Maker’s Gift. You know the cantrip mending
and gain proficiency with one type of artisan’s
tools.

Magecraft. You can create a temporary magic
item out of common materials. Choose a cantrip
from the wizard spell list. Describe the item
connected to it. As long as you possess the item,
you know that cantrip. At the end ofa long rest,
you can replace it with a new item and select a
new cantrip from the wizard spell list. Intelligence
is your spellcasting ability for these cantrips.

Spellsmith. You can spend one minute
to weave a temporary enchantment into a
nonmagical suit of armor or weapon. For the
next hour the object becomes a magic item,
gaining a +1 bonus to AC if it is armor or a +1
bonus to hit and damage if it is a weapon. Once
you use this trait, you can’t use it again until you
finish a long rest.

CHAPTER 4 | THE MARK OF MAKING

101

--- PAGE 102 ---

102

Tue MARK OF PASSAGE

“We get things where they need to go. It doesn’t
matter uf it’s a letter, a person, or a hundred tons of
steel. Whether we have to cross mountains, rivers,
or the Mournland itself, Orien finds a way.”

— Bali d’Orien, veteran courier

The Mark of Passage governs motion, allowing
its bearer to move with uncanny speed and
precision. Running, leaping, climbing—the Mark
of Passage enhances every form of movement.
The bearer of the mark can even slip through
space, leaping from point to point in the blink of
an eye.

House ORIEN

The House of Passage manages land
transportation. The Lightning Rail is the house’s
most dramatic tool, but Orien runs caravans
and coaches across the length of Khorvaire.
Dragonshard focus items ensure that the fastest
vehicles are those driven by heirs with the Mark
of Passage, but the house also licenses unmarked
teamsters. The Courier’s Guild of House Orien
delivers mail and packages and has a branch that
handles more covert and dangerous deliveries.
Orien has dominated transportation for
centuries, but now the house is facing challenges.
The Mournland is a dramatic obstacle for
ground transportation, and the expanding role
of Lyrandar airships threatens Orien’s business.
Long distance teleportation is a service only the
strongest Orien heirs can provide. Now Orien,
seeking to expand its use of teleportation, is
working with Cannith to find ways to unlock
and enhance this ultimate gift of the Mark
of Making. Orien heirs may be caught up in
these experiments or in the rivalry with House
Lyrandar, or they may stay close to the ground
and just keep moving.

CHAPTER 4 | THE MARK OF PASSAGE
DRAGONMARKED CHARACTERS

Here are examples of characters who carry the
Mark of Passage.

Outlander Ranger. You're a courier who
specializes in dangerous deliveries to exotic
locations. Your assignments take you into the
wilds, the Mournland, and worse. Hopefully you
have a team of capable friends!

Rogue Urchin. You grew up as a foundling
in the worst slums of Sharn. For you, the city
is a vast vertical jungle, and you love climbing
towers and leaping between bridges. You value
friendship and freedom. You’re more interested
in having fun and helping your companions than
in joining up with some stuffy house.

MArK OF PAassAGE TRAITS

The Mark of Passage only manifests on humans.
These traits replace the human Ability Score
Increase trait given in the Player’s Handbook.

Ability Score Increase. Your Dexterity
score increases by 2 and one other ability score of
your choice increases by 1.

Courier’s Speed. Your base walking speed
increases to 40 ft.

Intuitive Motion. When you make a
Strength (Athletics) check or any ability check
to operate or maintain a land vehicle, you can
roll one Intuition die, a d4, and add the number
rolled to the ability check.

Determined Stride. When you use the Dash
action, difficult terrain doesn’t cost you extra
movement on that turn.

Shared Passage. As a bonus action you can
teleport a distance up to your walking speed,
ending in an unoccupied space that you can
see. You can bring one willing creature of your
size or smaller who is carrying gear up to its
carrying capacity. The creature must be within
5 feet of you when you use this trait. Once you
use this trait, you can’t use it again until you
finish a long rest.

--- PAGE 103 ---

THE MARK OF SCRIBING

“Communication is the foundation of civilization.”
— Lysse Lorridan d’Sivis,
House Matriarch

The Mark of Scribing deals with
communication—both the written and spoken
word. A gnome who bears the mark can feel
words as though they are living creatures,
struggling to make their meaning known. The
mark provides a range of gifts. It translates
languages, but it also allows its bearer to
communicate with others at a distance.

House Sivis

The gnomes of House Sivis facilitate
communication. This is seen most literally in
Speaking stones, magic items allowing a Sivis heir
to send a short message to another speaking
stone; House Sivis’s network of message stations
is the backbone of long-distance communication.
But Sivis also trains and licenses scribes,
notaries, interpreters, cartographers, barristers,
heralds, bookbinders and more. House Sivis

has an especially close relationship with House
Kundarak, as Kundarak letters of credit must be
notarized with a Sivis arcane mark.

House Sivis has taken great pains to maintain
the trust of its clients and takes a position of
absolute neutrality in all disputes, whether
between houses or nations. Gnomes have a
natural love of intrigue, and the different families
within the house often engage in subtle schemes
and feuds, but these are never allowed to
threaten the house as a whole. Sivis gnomes are
typically friendly, curious, and engaging; but that
kindly exterior may conceal a scheming mind.
DRAGONMARKED CHARACTERS

Here are examples of characters who carry the
Mark of Scribing.

House Agent Bard. The Draconic Prophecy
is one of the greatest mysteries of all. You’re an
observer tasked to keep your eyes open for any
sort of manifestation of the Prophecy. You are
part detective, part spy. Always keep your eyes
open for leads and see where they take you.

Sage Wizard. You started out as a scribe
and discovered a talent for arcane magic and a
love of history. You’re eager to explore ancient
ruins and lost civilizations, and you’re especially
interested in uncovering old records, spellbooks,
and ancient lore.

Hermit Warlock (Great Old One). The
Mark of Making allows you to read the code of
reality itself, to understand voices no one else can
hear. You have no interest in the business of your
house; you are on a grander quest, unraveling a
secret that lesser minds can’t comprehend. Your
patron could be a daelkyr or your mark may
truly be connecting you to some primordial force.

MAnrK OF SCRIBING TRAITS

The Mark of Scribing manifests exclusively
on gnomes. If your character has the Mark of
Scribing, this is your gnome subrace.

Ability Score Increase. Your Charisma
score increases by 1.

Gifted Scribe. You are proficient with
calligrapher’s supplies and forgery kits. When
you make an ability check using either one of
these tools, you can roll one Intuition die, a d4,
and add the number rolled to the ability check.

Scribe’s Insight. You can cast comprehend
languages once with this trait, and you regain
the ability to do so when you finish a long rest.
Intelligence is your spellcasting ability for it.

Whispering Wind. You know the cantrip
message. Intelligence is your spellcasting ability
when casting it.

Extra Language. You can speak, read, and
write one extra language of your choice.

CHAPTER 4 | THE MARK OF SCRIBING

103

--- PAGE 104 ---

104

THE MARK OF SENTINEL

“Protection is my purpose. I defend the innocent
Jrom those who would do them harm. For my
siblings, this is a job; for me, it’s a calling.”
— Harric d’Deneith,
Sentinel Marshal

The Mark of Sentinel warns and protects. It
heightens senses and reflexes, allowing an heir
to respond to threats with uncanny speed. It can
shield its bearer from harm. Whether on the
battlefield or the ballroom, someone who carries
the Mark of Sentinel is prepared for danger.

House DENEITH

House Deneith was born in Karrnath, and war
flows in its veins. For centuries, the Blademarks
Guild of House Deneith has governed the
mercenary trade. While warriors with the

Mark of Sentinel are among its most elite

forces, House Deneith brokers the services of

a wide range of soldiers, including Valenar
warbands and the goblins of Droaam. Beyond
the battlefield, the Defender’s Guild provides
exceptional bodyguards for those who can afford
their services. House Deneith is also renowned
for its Sentinel Marshals, agents that hold the
authority to pursue criminals and enforce the
law across the length of Khorvaire. The Sentinel
Marshals hold the honor of the house in their
hands. Being a Marshal is a privilege, and it
comes with high expectations.

The dragonmarked houses aren’t allowed to
own land or hold noble titles. House Deneith
has always abided by these edicts, maintaining
absolute neutrality and selling its services to all
sides of a conflict. However, there’s a faction that
feels that Deneith should use its power for its own
purposes, not just in the service of others. House
Deneith is also caught in an escalating rivalry
with House Tharashk, which is edging into the
mercenary trade.

CHAPTER 4 | THE MARK OF SENTINEL
DRAGONMARKED CHARACTERS

Some examples of characters with this mark:

Paladin Soldier. You’re a Sentinel Marshal,
and you feel a divine calling to the cause of
justice. You may follow Dol Arrah or the Silver
Flame, but your paladin abilities could reflect
the powers of your mark and your devotion
to justice itself. Your “military rank” benefit
reflects your authority as a Sentinel Marshal
and will be recognized by law enforcement as
opposed to soldiers.

Monk Entertainer. You love being in the
thick of battle, but you’ve never had an interesting
in being a mercenary. Instead, you found your
path as a gladiator. You draw your Ki through
your mark, enhancing your reflexes and speed.
You love life in the arena and the fans love you,
but perhaps it’s time to find a greater purpose.

Mark OF SENTINEL TRAITS

The Mark of Sentinel only manifests on humans.
These traits replace the human Ability Score
Increase trait given in the Player’s Handbook.

Ability Score Increase. Your Strength and
Wisdom scores both increase by 1. In addition,
one ability score of your choice increases by 1.

Sentinel’s Intuition. When you roll for
Initiative or make a Wisdom (Perception) check
to notice a threat, you can roll one Intuition die, a
d4, and add it to the ability check.

Sentinel’s Shield. You know the cantrip blade
ward. You can cast shield once with this trait and
regain the ability to do so after you finish a short
or long rest.

Vigilant Guardian. As an action, you can
designate an ally you can see as your ward.

You have advantage on Wisdom (Insight) and
Wisdom (Perception) checks made to spot threats
to your ward. In addition, when you are within 5
feet of your ward, and that creature is the target
of an attack that you can see, you can use your
reaction to swap places with your ward. When
you do, you become the target of the attack.

--- PAGE 105 ---

Tue Mark oF SHADOW

“The illusions that I weave dazzle and deceive.
Sometimes that deception eases your burdens,
letting you forget your troubles for a moment. But
I can also ease your burdens by ending your life.”

— Lady Elara d’Thuranni,
shadow dancer

The Mark of Shadows lets an elf weave illusions
from shadows, crafting sounds and images to
distract or delight. The mark also allows its
bearer to draw on the shadows, making it an
easy matter to avoid detection or even disappear
while in plain sight. It is a valuable tool for an
entertainer, a spy, or an assassin.

THE Houses oF SHADOW

The elves have carried the Mark of Shadow for
thousands of years. The families that carry the
mark left Aerenal after the conflict that wiped
out the Mark of Death and established House
Phiarlan in Khorvaire. These elves are the finest
entertainers in the land, giving them access to all
manner of places and secrets. But the elves do
more than entertain. There has always been an
elite force of spies and assassins within the house.
Common folk know nothing of this. Only special
clients—powerful nobles, merchant lords, and the
like—have access to these shadow-marked spies.
Toward the end of the Last War, a bitter feud
broke out between the major families of the
house. Known as the Shadow Schism, it resulted
in a split withinin Phiarlan—and the foundation
of House Thuranni. House Phiarlan continues to
offer entertainment and espionage in the lands
west of the Mournland, while Thuranni operates
in Karrnath, the Lhazaar Principalities, and the
eastern lands. As a rule, Phiarlan elves are the
better spies and Thuranni agents are superior
assassins. On the surface Thuranni and Phiarlan
maintain a peaceful relationship, but rivalries
run deep.
DRAGONMARKED CHARACTERS

Here are a few examples of characters who carry
the Mark of Shadow.

House Agent Rogue. You’re a young
agent in House Thuranni. You’ve studied the
performing arts, but you’re far more interested
in the darker side of the house. At the moment
you’re building your skills and reputation as an
observer and investigator, but once you prove
yourself you hope you'll get to be a player in the
shadow war.

Bard Entertainer. You’re a rising star. Your
performances have already earned you a name
across the Five Nations, and your fame will surely
only increase as you develop your talents. The
house has helped with your career, and they’ve
dropped hints to see if you want to get involved
in the other side of the house, but at the moment
you’re just in this for the music.

MArK OF SHADOW TRAITS

The Mark of Shadow only manifests on elves. If
your character has the Mark of Shadow, this is
their elf subrace.

Ability Score Increase. Your Charisma
score increases by 1.

Natural Talent. You gain proficiency with
one musical instrument or the Performance skill.

Gift of the Shadows. When you make a
Charisma (Performance) or Dexterity (Stealth)
check, you can roll one Intuition die, a d4, and
add the number rolled to the ability check.

Shape Shadows. You know the minor illusion
cantrip. Charisma is your spellcasting ability for
this trait.

Slip Into Shadow. You can use the Hide
action as a bonus action, even if you have no
cover or if you’re under observation. Regardless
of whether you succeed or fail, once you use this
ability, you can’t use it again until you finish a
short or long rest.

CHAPTER 4 | THE MARK OF SHADOW 105

--- PAGE 106 ---

106

THE Mark OF STORM

“Sovereigns and Firstborn, grant me the four
blessings promised to our people: dominion over
the aur, dominion over the water, fortune for my
family, and fortune for my future.”

— From the Oath of Lyrandar

Wind and water welcome the half-elf who carries
the Mark of Storms. The wind catches them
when they fall, and they swim with remarkable
speed. Those who possess the Greater
Dragonmark and dragonshard focus items can
call on even greater powers, shaping the weather
and calling on the power of the storm.

House LYRANDAR

House Lyrandar has long ruled the seas. Their
galleons harness air and water elementals and are
faster than any mundane vessel. Control of the
sea and river trade gave Lyrandar considerable
power. Now they reach out to the skies. Merely a
decade old, Lyrander airships are already shifting
the balance of power in overland travel, previously
dominated by House Orien’s lightning rail.
House Lyrandar also controls the air in a more
literal way. The Raincallers’ Guild can use the
Mark of Storms to control the weather for its
clients, but at a considerable price.

House Lyrandar is made up of half-elves. For
many of its members, it’s more than simply
family or business—it is the closest thing their
people have to a homeland. House Lyrandar is
ambitious and often acts in what it sees as the
interests of all half-elves. Lyrandar heirs have
been helping the Valenar elves run their young
kingdom, and some believe that Valenar could
become a true homeland for the Khoravar.

DRAGONMARKED CHARACTERS

Here are a few examples of characters who carry
the Mark of Storms.

CHAPTER 4 | THE MARK OF STORM
Noble Sorcerer. You are heir to one of the
oldest families of Lyrandar, a direct descendant
of the Firstborn. You can draw on your mark and
your bloodline to wield power beyond those of
other heirs. You’re a noble of the house: are you a
carefree celebrity, or are you driven by duty and a
deep desire to help your house and your people?

Sailor Fighter. You served on the first
airship that went into service, and spent the Last
War fighting in the skies. You know your way
around the clouds and on the water, and you’re
looking for adventurers that will take you back to
either of them.

Criminal Rogue. You've never been one to
play by the rules. You always dreamed of being a
smuggler or a sky pirate, and when you were old
enough, you stole a small airship and headed to
Sharn. You and your DM will have to decide how
that worked out and if you still have the airship; it
turns out they’re hard to hide. Either way, you’ve
been kicked out of the house and you’re looking
for jobs that cater to your sense of adventure.

Mark oF STORM TRAITS

The Mark of Detection manifests exclusively on
half-elves. These traits replace the half-elf Ability
Score Increase, Skill Versatility, and Languages
traits given in the Player’s Handbook.

Ability Score Increase. Your Dexterity and
Charisma scores both increase by 1. In addition,
one ability score of your choice increases by 1.

Sea Monkey. Your base walking speed is 30
feet, and you have a swim speed of 30 feet.

Windwright’s Intuition. When you make a
Dexterity (Acrobatics) check or any ability check
involving operating or maintaining a water or air
vehicle, you can roll one Intuition die, a d4, and
add the number rolled to the ability check.

Storm’s Blessing. You have resistance to
lightning damage.

Headwinds. You know the gust cantrip.
When you reach 3rd level, you can cast the gust
of wind spell once with this trait and regain the
ability to do so when you finish a long rest.

Languages. You can speak, read, and write
Common and Elvish.

--- PAGE 107 ---

Gust

Transmutation Cantrip

Casting Time: | action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, 5
Duration: Instantaneous

You seize the air and compel it to create one
of the following effects at a point you can see
within range:
¢ One Medium or smaller creature that you
choose must succeed on a Strength saving
throw or be pushed up to 5 feet away from
you.

¢ You create a small blast of air capable of
moving one object that is neither held nor
carried and that weighs no more than 5
pounds. This object is pushed up to 10
feet away from you. It isn’t pushed
with enough force to
cause damage.

¢ You create a
harmless sensory
effect using air, such as

causing leaves to rustle,
wind to slam shutters closed,
or your clothing to billow
impressively in a breeze.
107

CHAPTER 4 | THE MARK OF STORM

--- PAGE 108 ---

108

THE MArK OF WARDING

“My family has the finest vaults you can imagine.
They forge the locks that secure the jewels of kings
and queens. And I learned to pick those locks
when I was barely out of the crib.”

— Cutter, burglar and
Kundarak excoriate

The Mark of Warding helps its bearers protect
things of value. Using the mark, a dwarf can
weave wards and seal portals with mystic force.
It also provides its bearer with an intuitive
understanding of locks and mechanisms used to
protect and seal. The decision each heir has to
make is whether they'll use this power to keep
things safe, or whether they’re more interested in
opening locks and taking what’s inside.

House KUNDARAK

If you want to keep something safe —jewels,
secrets, prisoners—Kundarak is there to help.
The Defenders Guild of House Kundarak trains
locksmiths, security specialists, and more. It
maintains the infamous prison of Dreadhold,
along with a number of smaller prisons. As
useful as these services are, it’s the Banking
Guild that truly defines the house. Kundarak’s
lands in the Mror Holds include deep veins of
precious metals and stones, and the dwarves
have used this wealth to establish the banking
industry of Khorvaire. Anyone who makes a
living from coim—from bankers to goldsmiths—
likely learned their skills at House Kundarak.
The security of Kundarak banks is legendary.
The house also provides a special service to those
who can afford it: a system of extradimensional
vaults, allowing a client to store their goods in
one location and retrieve them at any other
Kundarak enclave.

House Kundarak has a close alliance with
House Sivis. Like the House of Scribing,
Kundarak has worked to earn the trust of

CHAPTER 4 | THE MARK OF WARDING
its clients and to establish a reputation for
unshakeable integrity. The house has no love of
renegade dwarves using their marks to turn a
profit, and such rogues will want to avoid the eye
of Kundarak.

DRAGONMARKED CHARACTERS

Here are examples of characters with the Mark
of Warding.

Artificer House Agent. Some people want
to build a better mousetrap. Better isn’t enough
for you—you want to build the dest. Your basic
job: go out in the world, find the finest and most
unusual security systems, and see what you can
learn from them. When you go into an ancient
ruin, you’re hoping there are traps.

Criminal Rogue. It’s not that you’re a
bad person. You’ve just never met a lock you
didn’t want to open. It’s like they speak to you,
whispering “Free me! Free me!” You’re not even
in it for the gold; you’ve just fallen in with a bad
crowd because most people who like opening
locks are criminals. Perhaps it’s time to make
some new friends.

Mark oF WARDING TRAITS

The Mark of Warding manifests exclusively
on dwarves. If your character has the Mark of
Warding, this is their dwarf subrace.

Ability Score Increase. Your Dexterity and
Intelligence scores increase by 1.

Master of Locks. When you make an
Intelligence (History), Intelligence (Investigation),
or Thieves’ Tools check involving lock and trap
mechanisms, you can roll one Intuition die, a d4,
and add the number rolled to the ability check.

Wards and Seals. You can use your mark to
cast the alarm spell as a ritual. Starting at 3rd level
you can cast arcane lock once with this trait and
you regain the ability to do so when you finish a
long rest. Intelligence is your spellcasting ability
for these spells.

--- PAGE 109 ---

GREATER DRAGONMARKS

The Greater Dragonmark feat represents
the evolution of a dragonmark—an exponential
increase in the mark’s size and the powers it
carries and bestows.

Only a fraction of dragonmarked heirs ever
develop a Greater Dragonmark. The powers
they possess are more powerful than the
wide magic that serves as the foundation of
the magical economy. Teleportation, instant
communication across vast distances—these
services are rare, remarkable features of the
dragonmarked houses.
Having a Greater Dragonmark doesn’t
automatically give a character greater status
but it makes that character a valuable tool
for the house. When you acquire a Greater
Dragonmark, talk with your DM and decide
if you want your relationship to your house to
change. Do you want to work more closely with
them? Do you want to get involved with family
politics? Do you want to explore a story in which
the house puts pressure on you, or would you
prefer to remain independent?

CHAPTER 4 | GREATER DRAGONMARKS

109

--- PAGE 110 ---

110

FEAT: GREATER DRAGONMARK

Prerequisite: 8th level, character must possess a dragonmark

Your dragonmark has grown in size and power.
This enhances your existing dragonmark, and the
benefits are based on the mark that you already
possess. A greater dragonmark provides the
following benefits:

¢ The die type of your dragonmarked

Intuition Die increases by one (for example,
from a d4 to a d6).

¢ Increase one ability score by 1, toa
maximum of 20. The abilities available to

GREATER DRAGONMARKS BENEFITS

Dragonmark
Detection

Finding

Handling
Healing
Hospitality
Making
Passage
Scribing
Sentinel
Shadow
Storm

Warding

Ability
Charisma or
Intelligence
Dexterity,
Strength, or
Wisdom
Dexterity or
Wisdom
Dexterity or
Wisdom
Charisma or
Dexterity
Dexterity or
Intelligence
Dexterity or
Constitution
Intelligence
or Charisma
Strength or
Wisdom
Charisma or
Dexterity
Charisma or
Dexterity
Dexterity or
Intelligence

Spells
See Invisibility, True :

Locate Creature, Fini

Beast Sense, Domine
Mass Healing Word,

Restoration
Sanctuary, Mordenk

Mansion

Fabricate, Creation
Blink, Teleportation |
Sending, Tongues
Compelled Duel, Wa
Nondetection, Misle:

Control Water, Contr

Knock, Glyph of War
Secret Chest*

CHAPTER 4 | GREATER DRAGONMARKS
you are based on your mark, as shown on
the Greater Dragonmark Benefits table.

¢ You leam a set of spells, each of which you
can cast once without expending a spell slot
or using a material component. The list of
spells, the spellcasting ability for them, and
the type of rest you must complete to regain

the use of these spells are shown on the
Greater Dragonmark Benefits table.

To cast Leomund’s secret chest using this feat and
the Mark of Warding, you must have a Siberys
dragonshard with a value of at least 100 gp.
While you have this dragonshard in hand, it
serves as the spell’s focus, and you can use it to
summon and dismiss the chest.

Spellcasting Rest
Ability Required
seeing Intelligence Long
1 The Path Wisdom Long
ite Beast Wisdom Long
Greater Wisdom Long
ainen’s Magnificent Charisma Long
Intelligence Long
Circle Constitution Long
Intelligence | LongorShort
rding Bond Wisdom Long or Short
ad Charisma Long
ol Wind Charisma Long
ding, Leomund’s Intelligence Long

--- PAGE 111 ---

ABERRANT DRAGONMARKS

“Your sigil creates, child of Cannith. Mine holds
the power to destroy.”

—Rotting Bal,
Tarkanan Enforcer

The twelve dragonmarks are tied to specific
bloodlines and passed down through families.
They are reliable and predictable, and their
powers are constructive. They create; they heal;
they protect.

But there is another kind of dragonmark:
marks that are unpredictable and dangerous to
both the bearer and the people around them.
Someone with such a mark can kill with a
touch or control minds with a glance. Aberrant
marks often appear when people from different
dragonmarked families produce a child, and for
this reason such unions are absolutely forbidden
by the Twelve. But aberrant dragonmarks
can appear on members of any race, at any
age, regardless of bloodline. No two aberrant
dragonmarks are exactly alike—even if they
grant the same power, they may appear and
manifest in different ways. If two aberrant marks
might grant fire bolt, one mark may be formed
from scar tissue while another is traced on the
skin in lines of cold fire.

While aberrant dragonmarks can be disturbing,
on the surface an aberrant mark seems no more
dangerous or threatening than the powers of a
sorcerer. So, what makes them significant? First
of all, aberrant marks always have flaws. These
may not actively hurt a character, but they are
always a burden in some way—a burden that
could drive a weak-willed person to madness.

It takes time for a character to learn to control
their mark, and in time people may be hurt. If
an aberrant mark grants five bolt, the person who
carries it might have severely burned or even
killed a loved one. Imagine having the power
to cast charm person but being unable to control
it and having people you care about suddenly
becoming slavishly devoted to you. All of these
factors have led to the general superstition
that people with aberrant dragonmarks are
dangerous, that their marks drive them crazy or
turn them into sociopaths. These are things that

can happen; people have a right to be afraid.
But it is possible for an aberrant to
learn to control their mark and

to endure the flaw.
Aberrant marks are
feared for another
reason, too. Long
ago aberrant marks
were more frequent
and some people
had aberrant
marks that held
greater powers.
Aberrant leader
Halas Tarkanan
could devastate
cities with powerful
earthquakes, while
the Dreambreaker
shattered minds.
The Lady of the
Plague wielded

CHAPTER 4 | ABERRANT DRAGONMARKS 111

--- PAGE 112 ---

disease and commanded hordes of
vermin. The dragonmarked houses
united in an inquisition called The
War of the Mark. Some say that
this was a persecution of innocents;
but most feared the aberrants and
stood by as the houses hunted them
down. Ever since the War of the
Mark, aberrant dragonmarks have

been few in number and relatively week.
But since the Mourning aberrant marks have
been appearing in greater numbers, and people
wonder if those who carry them could develop
greater power.

If you develop an aberrant mark, you can
choose a flaw from this list, or you and the DM
can develop a unique flaw of your own.

ABERRANT MARK FLAW
1d8 Aberrant Mark Flaw

1 Your mark is a source of constant
physical pain.

2 Your mark whispers to you, though
you may not understand what it says.

3 In times of stress, your mark may
trigger a cantrip effect involuntarily.

4 The skin around your mark has an
unusual appearance: burned, scaly,
withered, etc.

5 Mundane animals become uneasy
around you.

6 You have dramatic mood swings any
time you use your mark.

7 Your appearance changes ina minor
way every time you use your mark.

8 You have horrific nightmares after
you use your mark.

112 CHAPTER 4 | ABERRANT DRAGONMARKS
Feat: ABERRANT DRAGONMARK

Prerequisite: No existing dragonmark.

You have manifested an aberrant dragonmark.
Determine its appearance and the flaw associated
with it. You gain the following benefits:

Increase your Constitution score by 1, to a
maximum of 20.

You learn a cantrip from the sorcerer spell
list. In addition, choose a Ist-level spell
from the sorcerer spell list. You learn that
spell and can cast it at its lowest level. Once
you cast it, you must finish a long rest
before you can cast it again. Constitution is
your spellcasting ability for these spells.

You can increase the power of your
aberrant spells at the risk of your own
vitality. When you cast a spell with your
aberrant mark, you can use one of your
Hit Dice to increase the spell’s level by 1.
Immediately after you cast the spell, roll
the Hit Die. You take damage equal to the
number rolled.

--- PAGE 113 ---

CHAPTER 5: MAGIC ITEMS

RCANE MAGIC PLAYS A VITAL ROLE
in the Five Nations. Common
magic items are widespread in
the world. The crystals known as
dragonshards serve as the fuel
of the magical economy and are used in focus
items that amplify the powers of dragonmarks.

DRAGONSHARDS

Dragonshards are crystals imbued with raw
mystical energy. They are the fuel that drives
the magical economy, playing a vital role in the
creation of magic items and the performance of
arcane rituals.

Dragonshards come in three distinct
varieties, each of which are found in different
environments. Eberron dragonshards are
found in shallow soil, and often encased in
geode-like stone shells. Eberron shards can be
found almost anywhere, but the most significant
deposits have been discovered in jungle
environments, notably QO’barra and the distant
land of Xen’drik. In their raw form, Eberron
shards are rosy crystals with crimson swirls
flowing their depths.

Eberron shards are the most common form of

dragonshard. They are primarily

refined into a glowing

powder. This dragonshard
dust can be used to fuel
almost any act of magic.
When casting a spell, you
can use dragonshard
dust in place of any
spell component
that has a cost,
unless the DM
says otherwise.
Dragonshard dust
is used in the

wi
creation of magic items, and

many powerful tools—such

as the lightning rail and

elemental airships—require

an ongoing expenditure of

Eberron dragonshards to

maintain their enchantments.
Khyber dragonshards are

found deep in the earth, often

near layers of magma. These living
crystals typically grow on cavern
walls, and superstition says they
flourish in areas with significant fiendish
activity. Khyber dragonshards are deep
blue or dark violet, laced with gleaming veins.

Khyber dragonshards have a affinity for
binding magics. Elemental binding—which
is behind airships, the lightning rail, and
elemental galleons—requires a Khyber shard
to hold the elemental. Khyber shards are
used for phylacteries, planar binding, any
other effects that trap or manipulate spirits.
Khyber dragonshards are also used for many
necromantic rituals.

Siberys dragonshards fall from the Ring
of Siberys, the ring of crystals that encircles
the world. While rare in Khorvaire, there
are significant shard fields in the continent of
Xen’drik, and this is a potential source of great
wealth for explorers. Siberys dragonshards are
amber in color, with swirling golding veins
gleaming within.

Siberys dragonshards have a close
affinity to dragonmarks
and are a vital
part of any
dragonmark
focus item.
Larger shards
may be required
for eldritch
machines or used in
the creation of legendary
items or artifacts.

CHAPTER 5 | MAGIC ITEMS 113

--- PAGE 114 ---

Macic ITEMs

Consider how these magic items from throughout
Khorvaire can add to your campaign.

ARCANE Focuses

Go to the Bazaar in Sharn or any enclave of
House Cannith and you'll find a wide selection
of arcane focuses to choose from. For a
wandslinger, the choice of an arcane focus carries
the same weight as a duelist deciding between a
rapier or a maul. Do you use a wand of Fernian ash
to focus your fire bolt, or do you harness defensive
energies with a Risian orb?

An arcane focus is a tool, and only provides its
benefits while you’re actively using it. An orb of
shielding provides no protection when it’s in your
pack; you must have it in your hand.

In Khorvaire, arcane focus items are
recognized as weapons: if guards are securing
swords and bows, they’ll also require you to turn
over your staff.

IMBUED Woop

Wondrous Item, common (requires attunement)

Powerful manifest zones can infuse local trees
with planar energies. A gifted artificer can tap
into this to create a wand, staff, or rod that is
especially effective at channeling a particular type
of energy.

An arcane focus provides a +1 bonus when you
roll damage for a spell that inflicts a specific type
of damage, as shown below.

¢  Fernian Ash: Fire damage.

¢ Inan Rosewood: Radiant damage.
¢ — Kythrian Manchineel: Acid or poison damage.

¢ Lamanmian Oak: Lightning or thunder
damage.

¢ Mabaran Ebony: Necrotic damage.
* Quori Beech, Xorian Wenge: Psychic damage.
¢  Risian Pine: Cold damage.

¢ Shavarran Burch: Force damage.

114 | CHAPTER 5 | MAGIC ITEMS
Ors oF SHIELDING

Wondrous Item, common (requires attunement)

An orb of shielding is made from crystal or stone
aligned to one of the planes. While you are
holding the o76, it shields you from a particular
type of energy. Any time you take damage of that
type, reduce it by 1d4. The materials and their
associated damage types are listed below.

¢ —Fernian basalt: Fire damage

¢ Inan quartz: Radiant damage

¢ Kythrian skarn: Acid or poison damage

¢ Lamannian fint: Lightning or thunder damage
¢ Mabaran obsidian: Necrotic damage

*  Quori celestine, Xorian marble: Psychic damage
¢ —Risian shale: Cold damage

¢  Shavaran chert: Force damage

OPTIONAL RULE:
TWO-HANDED ARCANE FOCUSES

In Eberron, an arcane focus is a weapon.
As such, it can be interesting to give a focus
some of the same trade-offs as mundane
weapons: do you sacrifice your free hand for
greater power?

If you use this optional rule, when a caster
uses a two-handed arcane focus to cast an
offensive cantrip (a cantrip requiring a saving
throw or an attack roll), the range of the
cantrip is increased by 50 percent.

By this rule, a staff always requires two
hands, while rods can be used with either
one or two hands. Using a two-handed
arcane focus fulfills the somatic component
requirement for a spell.

--- PAGE 115 ---

Common Macic ITeMs

Bano oF Loyatty
Ring, common (requires attunement)

If you are reduced to zero hit points while
attuned to a band of loyalty, you instantly die.
These rings are favored by spies who can’t afford
to fall into enemy hands.

CLEANSING STONE
Wondrous Item, common

A cleansing stone is a stone sphere one foot in
diameter, engraved with mystic sigils. When
touching the stone, you can use an action to
activate it and remove dirt and grime from your
garments and your person. Cleansing stones are
often embedded into pedestals in public squares
in Aundair or found in high-end Ghallanda inns.

EVERBRIGHT LANTERN

Wondrous Item, common

An everbright lantern contains an Eberron
dragonshard imbued with the effect of a continual
flame spell. This bright light is mounted inside a
normal bullseye lantern, allowing the light to be
shuttered off. An everbright lantern provides clear
illumination in a 60-foot cone and shadowy
illumination in a 120-foot cone, just like a
mundane bullseye lantern, but its flame never
goes out.

FEATHER TOKEN

Wondrous Item, common

This small metal disk is inscribed with the
image of a feather. While the token is in your
possession, you can cast feather fall as a bonus
action. A feather token only holds sufficient charge
for a single use, after which it loses its power.
While it’s an expensive form of insurance,
frequent airship travelers and citizens of Sharn
often appreciate the security it provides.
GLAMERWEAVE
Wondrous Item, common

Glamerweave clothing is imbued with cosmetic
illusions. Traditionally, these patterns are
contained within the cloth, but higher-end
glamerweave can have more dramatic effects. You
could have a gown that appears to be wreathed
in flames, or a hat that’s orbited by illusory
butterflies. Regardless of the design, these are
cosmetic effects and have no impact on combat.

SHIFTWEAVE
Wondrous Item, common

Transmutation magic is woven into the fabric

of shiftweave clothing. When a suit of shiftweave

is created, up to five different outfits can be
embedded into the cloth. By taking an action
and uttering a command word, you can
transform your shiftweave outfit into one of the
other designs contained within it. To determine
the price of a suit of shifiweave, combine the value
of all of the outfits it contains and add 25 gp to
that amount.

SPELLSHARD

Wondrous Item, common

A spellshard is a polished Eberron dragonshard,
sized to fit into the palm of a hand. The shard is
imbued with a particular work of literature. By
holding the shard and concentrating, you can
see its pages in your mind’s eye. Thinking of a
particular phrase or topic will draw you to the
first section that addresses it, and a simple ritual
allows you to add content to the shard.

An arcane caster can use a spellshard instead of
a spellbook; the spellshard costs 1 gp per “page” in
the shard, and otherwise functions as a mundane
spellbook. Spellshards can also be used as diaries
or journals. More advanced (and uncommon)
shards can require a particular mental passphrase
to access the contents of the shard.

CHAPTER 5 | MAGIC ITEMS

115

--- PAGE 116 ---

116

DRAGONMARK Focus ITEMs

These items harness and expand the powers of a
dragonmark, allowing the dragonmarked houses
to provide a wide range of useful services. You
must possess a particular dragonmark in order to
use or attune to a dragonmark focus item.

Many dragonmark focus items have unique
effects related to their marks, as described in this
section. Alternately, a dragonmark focus item can
duplicate the power of an existing magic item with
a power closely related to the mark. For example:

¢ A cape of the mountebank or boots of speed tied
to the Mark of Passage, or horseshoes of speed
that only function if the rider has the Mark
of Passage.

¢ Acloak of eluenkind or deck of tllustons tied to
the Mark of Shadows.

¢ Dimenswonal shackles that can only be
activated by someone with the Mark of
Warding.

° A gem of seeang that requires the Mark of
Detection.

It’s easier to produce an item that amplifies an
existing power than one that generates it on its
own, and generally a focus item costs half as much
as the standard version of that item. However, the
Siberys shards required to make focus items are
rare, and it’s always up to the DM to decide what
focus items are available in the world.

Bac oF Bounty

Wondrous Item, uncommon

This is a sturdy leather sack with tiny Siberys
shards embedded into the lining. If you have the
Mark of Hospitality you can use an action to cast
create food and water, drawing a feast from within
the bag. You shape this meal with your thoughts.
You can create the standard bland fare without
requiring any sort of check, but you can attempt
to create finer food by making a Charisma check;
if you’re proficient with cook’s utensils, add your
bonus to this check. A failed check results in a
sour and squalid meal.

CHAPTER 5 | MAGIC ITEMS
Food Quality Difficulty

Poor No roll required
Modest 10
Comfortable 13
Wealthy 15
Aristocratic 18

A bag of bounty can be used up to three times over
the course of a day. After that, the bag can’t be
used again until the next dawn.

INOUISITIVE’S GOGGLES

Wondrous Item, uncommon (requires attunement)

The lenses of these goggles are carved from
Siberys dragonshards. While garish in
appearance, these goggles are a boon to any
Tharashk inquisitive. To attune to the goggles,
you must possess the Mark of Finding. As long
as this condition is met, you gain the following
benefits.

¢ You can add your Intuition die from the
Hlunter’s Intuition trait of the mark when you
make Wisdom (Insight) checks.

¢ When you examine an object, you can
make a Wisdom (Perception) check to
identify the aura of the last living creature
to touch the object. The DC is 13 + the
number of days since the last contact
occurred. If the check is successful, you
learn the species of the creature and you
can immediately use your Jmprint Prey ability
to target this creature.

KEYCHARM

Wondrous Item, common

This simple object plays a vital role in the work
of House Kundarak. If you possess the Mark of
Warding, when you cast alarm, arcane lock, glyph
of warding, or similar abjuration effects, you can
tie the effect to the keycharm. Whoever holds

the keycharm is considered to the owner of this

--- PAGE 117 ---

enchantment; they receive the notification from
alarm, they can safely avoid a glyph, and they can
deactivate any associated effect.

RINGS OF SHARED SUFFERING
Ring, uncommon (requires attunement)

These rings come in linked pairs. It you possess
the Mark of Sentinel, you can use a bonus
action to form a link to the creature attuned

to the other ring; from then on, whenever that
creature suffers damage, they only suffer half of
that damage and you take the rest. This effect
continues until you end it as a bonus action

or until you or the other creature removes

their ring. This effect isn’t limited by range. A
creature cannot be attuned to more than one

ring of shared suffering.

ScriBE’s Pen
Wondrous Item, common

If you possess the Mark of Scribing, you can
use this quill to write on any surface. This can
be visible—traced in glowing mystical lines—or
invisible to any creature without the Mark of
Scribing. Invisible writing will be revealed by
Detect Magic, See Invisibility, or True Seeing. Any
creature with the Mark of Scribing can also
reveal your writing or make it invisible as an
action. If you mark a living creature, the mark
will fade within a week.
WHEEL oF WIND AND WATER
Wondrous Item, uncommon

When mounted at the helm of an elemental
galleon or airship, this allows a character who
possesses the Mark of Storm to telepathically
control the elemental bound into the vessel.

Ifa wheel of wind and water is mounted on a
mundane sailing ship, a character with the Mark
of Storm can create an area of ideal conditions
around the vessel, increasing its speed by 5 miles
per hour.

T.Gore(Lo-

COUAY LER 2 | MAGIC LEMS

7

--- PAGE 118 ---

Ecpritcd MACHINES

In a Cannith enclave, a team of artificers
maintain the creation forge that produces the
warforged. In the Shadow Marches, druids guard
the seals that hold the Daelkyr at bay. In the
sewers below Sharn, a mad genius puts the final
touches on a device that will turn the people of
the city into undead monstrosities.

All of these are eldritch machines. They are
wondrous locations: magic items of immense
power, but so large that they cannot be moved.
Eldritch machines always require rare components
but creating an eldritch machine could require one
or more planes to be coterminous or it might
only be possible to build it in a manifest zone.

118. CHAPTER 5 | MAGIC ITEMS
Ultimately, eldritch machines are plot devices.
Their powers are far beyond the standard level
of what is possible in Eberron, but such a device
can reflect the culmination of a villain’s master
plan or a last defense against evil that must be
protected at all costs.

DIMENSIONAL SEAL
Eldritch machine, legendary

A dimensional seal is a massive stone slab covered
with a complex pattern of runes and sigils.

The seal projects an invisible field with a radius
of two miles. This field blocks all forms of
conjuration magic and any other effect that
involves teleportation or planar travel. It also
negates the effects of any manifest zone within
the field.

Dimensional seals are usually found in the
Eldeen Reaches and the Shadow Marches, as
relics of the conflict between the Gatekeeper

druids and the daelkyr. The techniques used to
create these seals have been long lost. It’s said
that as a whole, the dimensional seals keep the
daelkyr bound in Khyber and prevent Xoriat
from becoming coterminous with Eberron.
If enough of these seals are destroyed, there
could be serious consequences for the world.

MAaBaraNn RESONATOR
Eldritch machine, legendary (requires attunement)

This horrific device draws on the power of
Mabar, infusing the dead with the malign
energies of the Endless Night. While it is

active, any creature that dies within two miles
of the resonator reanimates in one round as a
zombie under the control of creature attuned
to the device. At the DM’s discretion, more
powerful creatures can return as other forms
of undead.

--- PAGE 119 ---

Master’s CALL

Eldritch machine, legendary

While this looks like a scrap heap assembled
from shattered constructs and wreckage from
the Mournland, this eldritch machine possesses
tremendous power. You gain the following
benefits while you are attuned to the master’s call
and within one mile of the device.

¢ You can sense the presence and location of
all warforged within ten miles.

¢ You have advantage on any Charisma-
based check made against a warforged.

¢ While you are in contact with the master’s
call, you can use an action to target a
warforged within ten miles of the device.
You can send a telepathic message of up to
25 words to the target. They must make a
Wisdom saving throw, with a difficulty of
14 + your Intelligence modifier. On a failed
save, the target is affected by a suggestion
compelling them to follow your command.
This effect doesn’t require concentration; it
lasts for eight hours, until you choose to end
it, or until the victim successfully fulfils the
command, whichever comes first. You can
control up to eight warforged at once using
this effect.

SPELL SINK
Eldritch machine, legendary

This device creates an antimagic field that covers

a three-mile radius around the spell sink. The
form that it takes will depend on the nature of its
creator. The Ashbound druids despise unnatural
magic, and if they create a spell sink it will be

a living artifact—a twisted tree that consumes
the mystical energies around it. Conversely, a
mad artificer would create a massive vessel of
dragonshards and exotic metals. It might be that
the sole purpose of the device is to negate magic,
or it could be that it is absorbing all magical
energies in the area and storing that power for a
cataclysmic effect!

STORM SPIRE

Eldritch machine, very rare (requires attunement)

This eldntch machine is a form of dragonmark focus
item; you must have the Greater Mark of Storms
to attune to this device. Storm spires allow House
Lyrandar to influence the weather, which can

be a boon for the local population or a curse if
the Lyrandar baron chooses to demand payment
for desired conditions. You gain the following
benefits while you are attuned to a storm spure.

e You can sense weather patterns within a
100-mile radius of the spire and accurately
predict the weather for up to 24 hours.

¢ While you are within 60 feet of the spire,
you can use an action to cast any of the
following spells: call lghining, gust of wind.
You cast these as 5th level spells, and
Intelligence is your spellcasting ability.

¢ While you are within 5 feet of the spire,
you can cast control weather as a ten-minute
ritual. This allows you to pick a point
within 100 miles of the spire and influence
the weather within a 10-mile radius of
that point. Maintaining this effect requires
concentration.

¢ You can also use an action to influence the
weather within a ten-mile radius of the spire
itself; you don’t have to use concentration
to maintain this effect, and you can
sustain this at the same time that you’re
manipulating distant weather.

CHAPTER 5 | MAGICITEMS . 119

--- PAGE 120 ---

WARFORGED COMPONENTS

The warforged are living constructs. House
Cannith has designed a number of magic items
that can interface directly with the body of a
warforged. Once attached, a component cannot
be removed unless the warforged allows it.

The armblade is an example of an item created
by House Cannith. Docents are mysterious
wondrous items discovered in Xen’drik. These
are just a few of the components that can be
encountered in the world.

ARMBLADE

Weapon (any one-handed melee weapon), common
(requires attunement)

An armblade is a weapon designed to integrate
with the forearm of a warforged. If you’re

a warforged, you can attach an armblade by
attuning to it. An attached armblade cannot be

120 . CHAPTER 5 | MAGIC ITEMS
disarmed or removed from you against your
will, but while the weapon is attached you
cannot use that hand for other actions. You can
spend one minute to end the attunement and
remove the armblade.

An armblade isn’t inherently considered to be
a magic weapon for purposes of overcoming
damage resistance. However, any sort of magical
melee weapon could be created as an armblade,
so you could acquire a vicious armblade or a vorpal
armblade.

Docent

Wondrous item, rare (requires attunement)

A docent is a small metal sphere, approximately 2
inches across, studded with dragonshards. Despite
a strong magical aura, it has no obvious abilities.
If you’re a warforged, you can attune to the docent,
at which point the sphere becomes embedded in
your chest and comes to life—literally.

--- PAGE 121 ---

A docent is an intelligent magic item designed to
advise and assist the warforged it’s attached to. A
typical docent has an Intelligence score of 16 and
Wisdom and Charisma scores of 14. Once you’re
attuned to the docent, it can communicate with
you telepathically and can perceive the world
through your senses. One of the simple functions
of a docent is to serve as a translator. All docents
understand Common and Giant, but a docent
knows up to four additional languages. Elven
and Draconic are common options. Ifa docent
knows less than six languages in total, it can add
new languages to its repertoire after encountering
them. So a docent found in Xen’drik may have
never encountered a dwarf before... but after
spending some time in Khorvaire studying
dwarves, it could pick up the Dwarven language.

In addition, a docent possesses up to three of the
following traits.

* Can cast Detect magic at will
¢ Can cast Detect evil and good at will

¢ Can detect any form of divination or
scrying targeting the warforged host.

¢ Intelligence (Arcana) +7

¢ Intelligence (History) +7

¢ Intelligence (Investigation) +7

¢ Intelligence (Nature) +7

¢ Wisdom (Insight) +6

¢ Wisdom (Perception) +6

¢ The docent can make Wisdom (Medicine)
checks targeting its warforged host,
with a +7 bonus. If the host is rendered

unconscious, the docent will automatically
attempt to stabilize them once each turn.
You can use a bonus action on your turn to
request that the docent use one of its traits on your
behalf. In the case of skills, this uses the docent’s
bonus; your abilities and proficiencies have no
effect on the outcome. These traits are under
the control of the docent, and if you have a bad
relationship with your docent it may refuse to assist
you... or simply he about information that it
obtains. However, if you treat your docent well it
could serve as a useful ally.

The origin of docents is a great mystery. House
Cannith created the first warforged thirty years
ago. But the docents come from the distant land
of Xen’drik and appear to be thousands of years
old. Were they created to interface with some
other form of construct? Or are the modern
warforged a new interpretation of an ancient
design? The docents claim to have forgotten their
creators... but this is a mystery waiting to be
unraveled. While all docents come from Xen’drik,
some have been brought to Khorvaire by
explorers and it’s possible to encounter them in
the Five Nations.

CHAPTER 5 | MAGIC ITEMS

121

--- PAGE 122 ---

122

WAnp SHEATH

Wondrous Item, common (requires attunement)

An wand sheath is designed to integrate with the
forearm of a warforged. If you’re a warforged,
you can attach an wand sheath by attuning to it.
While the wand sheath is attached, it cannot be
removed from you against your will. You can
spend one minute to end the attunement and
remove the wand sheath.

You can insert a wand into the sheath as an
action. While the wand is sheathed, you gain the
following benefits.

CHAPTER 5 | MAGIC ITEMS
i

You can retract the wand into your forearm
or extend it from your forearm as a bonus
action. While it is retracted, it cannot be
damaged or removed.

While the wand is extended, you can use
it as if you were holding it, but your hand
remains free for other actions.

If the sheathed wand requires attunement,
you must attune to the wand before you
can use it. However, the wand sheath and the
attached wand only count as a single item
for purposes of the maximum number of
items you can be attuned to. If you remove
the wand from the sheath, you immediately
lose your attunement to the wand.

--- PAGE 123 ---

CHAPTER 6: SHARN, CITY OF

Tve been here a week, and it’s still hard not to be
overwhelmed by the city. The towers rise up until
they disappear into the clouds. Lights gleam in a
thousand windows. Skycoaches work their way
through the maze of bridges connecting the massive
towers, and up above I can see the burning ring of
an elemental aurship.

Staring into the sky, I nearly walk into a masswe
warforged juggernaut. It’s my first time seeing
one... but there’s so many things I’ve never seen
in thas place. A tattooed elf haggles with a masked
halfling, arguing about the price of lizard meat. A
gargoyle watches from a high perch. I gather my
senses and keep moving.

It’s not until I reach the lift that I reahze... that
warforged stole my purse.

: (? jie

Key
F *
TOWERS

LL OF THE THEMES OF THE SETTING
are made manifest in the great
city of Sharn. It’s a place of
magic, with skycoaches circling
mile-high towers and mystic
forges toiling endlessly in the bowels. It’s a
place of adventure and intrigue. A fallen angel
is gathering minions in the ruins below the
city. A gang war is unfolding in Callestan.
The corpse of a murdered nobleman has
just been discovered in his floating mansion.
A Cannith artificer is experimenting with a
planar gateway—and something is about to go
terribly wrong.

All of these adventures and a hundred more are
waiting in the City of Towers.

This chapter provides an overview of Sharn,
with a host of story hooks to help you get started.
For more information about the city and its
inhabitants, refer to the sources in the Appendix.

CHAPTER 6 | SHARN, CITY OF TOWERS 123

--- PAGE 124 ---

SHARN BACKGROUNDS

The City of Towers draws people from across the
world. What’s brought your character to Sharn?
Do you have deep roots in the city, or have you
just stepped off the lightning rail?

Backgrounds provide a strong foundation
for building a story. If you’re a noble, are you
tied to one of the founding families of Sharn,
or are you a scion of another nation visiting
the City of Towers for the first time? If you’re
an entertainer, are loved in the upper wards or
a favorite in Sharn’s lowest dives? The tables
provide a range of ideas that can be used for PCs
or NPCs with strong ties to Sharn; work out the
details with your DM.

124 | CHAPTER 6 | SHARN BACKGROUNDS
ACOLYTE

Shrines and temples can be found across Sharn.
The Pavilion of the Host is Breland’s largest
temple to the Sovereign Host, and the Cathedral
of the Cleansing Flame is the bastion of the Silver
Flame in Breland. Of course, Sharn’s churches
are infamous for harboring corruption. Are you
part of the local establishment, or have you come
to Sharn from afar?

1d4 Acolyte

1

You've come to Sharn to investigate
corruption in your church. Have you
been sent by authorities in your faith,
or are you driven by a divine vision?
You’re tied to a small temple in one of
the lower wards of Sharn. It’s poor and
dilapidated, but it’s a true bastion of
your faith and doing good work for the
struggling people of the ward.

You're here ona pilgrimage, seeking an
audience with the head of your faith

in Sharn... but the intermediaries have
demanded a small fortune to set up
this meeting.

You're a minor acolyte at one of the
major temples. It’s a maze of intrigue,
graft, and politics. You’re playing the
game, working with a patron within the
church. Do you hope you can improve
things once you rise up in hierarchy? Or
are you only interested in power and
influence?

--- PAGE 125 ---

CHARLATAN

Whether you’re a grifter or a spy, there’s plenty
of opportunities in Sharn.

1d4 Charlatan

1  You’re acon artist from the lower wards,
but you’ve established a false identity as
an upper ward noble.

2 You’ve crafted the identity of a prophet
driven by holy visions. If you area
divine spellcaster, your actual faith may
be entirely different from the one you
profess.

3 You've adopted the identity of a refugee
from the war, but in fact you’re running
from an infamous past. Are you a war
criminal? An agitator? A former spy
hiding from your employers?

4  You’re a covert operative working
for another nation, or for a powerful
agency (a dragonmarked house, the
City Watch, a criminal organization). Are
you carrying out missions, or are youa
sleeper agent building a deep cover?
CRIMINAL

Sharn is home to a number of powerful
criminal organizations, and your background
gives a tie to one of them. Work with your DM
to decide which group you’re connected to, and
use this table to determine the nature of that
connection.

1d4_ Criminal

1 You have family or friends in the
organization, but you’ve still got to
prove yourself to the gang.

2 You retired from the criminal life long
ago. But you still have deep roots with
the organization, and now they’re
pulling you back in.

3 You're secretly working for the City
Watch or a foreign crime agency, trying
to worm your way into the underworld
of Sharn.

4 You're an independent agent working
with more than one of Sharn’s gangs.
While you value your freedom, if you’re
not careful you could make enemies on
all sides.

CHAPTER 6 | SHARN BACKGROUNDS 125

--- PAGE 126 ---

126

ENTERTAINER

As an entertainer, you can find a place to
perform anywhere in Sharn. But where are you
recognized? Another thing to consider: House
Phiarlan and House Thuranni train and license
entertainers. Do you have a license with one of
the houses, or are you entirely independent?

1d4__sEntertainer

1 You're a favorite in the toughest
taverns of the lower wards. The darker
the dive, the better.

2 You’re an understudy at one of the
grand theaters in Upper Menthis.

3 Youspecialize in religious music and
performance. You will usually be
welcomed at any temple of your faith.

4  You’re preserving an unusual artistic
tradition through your work. You have
an eccentric patron who’s driving you
to explore the roots of this tradition. p

CH APTER6 | SHARN BACKGROUNDS
Fok Hero

As folk hero, you have your roots among the
common people. Where are you from, and who

do you fight for?
1d4_ Folk Hero
1  Yougrewup inthe lower wards. You

fight to protect your people both from
the depredations of gangs and abuse at
the hands of the wealthy.

You're working to improve the image of
a marginalized minority group (goblins,
changelings, warforged) in Sharn.
You're a refugee driven from your
home by the war. You want to protect
other refugees, but you’re also an
opponent of the monarchies that drove
the nations into war.

You're celebrated for an amazing

feat of heroism, which may have
happened in Sharn or during the war.
The problem is that you didn’t actually
do it. Can you live up to everyone’s
expectations and become the hero
they believe you to be?

--- PAGE 127 ---

Guid ARTISAN

There’s always work for a talented individual

in Sharn. Masons work on the towers. Smiths
hammer away in the cogs. Bakers and brewers
tend to the endless appetites of the common folk.
The largest guilds are tied to the dragonmarked
houses. The Fabricator’s Guild of House Gannith
deals with manufacturing trades, while the
Hosterler’s Guild of House Ghallanda covers
inns, taverns, and restaurants. Are you part of
one of these international guilds, or tied to a
smaller local organization?

1d4 Guild Artisan

1  You’rea young prodigy. You've just
joined the guild, but your comrades are
amazed at your early talent and push
you to excel.

2 While you’ve still got your guild ties,
you retired from the business some
years ago. You hate the newfangled
techniques the kids are using today.

3 You’re a respected member of one
of the dragonmarked guilds, but
you’re concerned about the policies
of the house and the direction of its
leadership.

4  You’rea member of asmall alliance of
independent artisans. You're fighting
to keep your collective from being
crushed by the dragonmarked houses.
HERMIT

As a hermit, you spent a considerable time in
seclusion before making a discovery that drew
you back to the world. Were you isolated in
Sharn, or did you discover something that’s
drawn you to the City of Towers?

1d4
1

Hermit

You spent the last ten years meditating
ona pillar on one of the highest points
in Sharn. A recent revelation has
brought you down from your perch;
what is your quest? Over the course of
your isolation you became something
of a tourist attraction; a gnome
merchant used to sell plaster statues
of you on your pillar.

You spent your life ina hidden
monastery in Sharn. Did the master of
your order send you out ona mission?
Or are you the lone survivor of an
attack that destroyed your monastery?

You were the lone survivor of an
airship crash and spent years ina
remote location until you were found.
In that time, you experienced a
remarkable revelation. Did you have a
religious experience, or did you have
an arcane insight into the workings of
the universe?

You’re a librarian. You’ve spent your
entire life in the labyrinth of books
below Morgrave University. A few
weeks ago you stumbled on a secret
buried in the vaults—something so big
that it’s driven you from your beloved
books and into a life of adventure. Is it
a fragment of the Draconic Prophecy?
A complex puzzle leading to an ancient
treasure?

CHAPTER 6 | SHARN BACKGROUNDS

127

--- PAGE 128 ---

NoBLe

Are you part of one of the noble families of
Sharn, or you a scion of a distant line? If you
have your roots in Sharn, you likely have a family
estate in an upper ward. However, being so close
to your family means that you'll have to deal
with their demands and expectations... and your
actions could tarnish your family’s reputation.

1d4 Noble

1  You’reashamed of your family. Were
they war profiteers? Are they taking
advantage of refugees? Whatever the
cause, despite being an heir to wealth
and power, you’re currently keeping
your lineage a secret.

2. You’rea local celebrity. You delight
in slumming in the lower wards, but
wherever you go in Sharn, gossip is
sure to follow.

3 Your family is involved ina long-term
plot to overthrow the monarch of your
homeland. Your job is to find capable
comrades to help you with your quest
and to gain the support of other
powerful people.

4 While you are still recognized as a
noble, your lands were lost in the war
and your title is all but meaningless.
Can you find a way to regain your
birthright?

128 ., CHAPTER 6 | SHARN BACKGROUNDS
OUTLANDER

You are unfamiliar with the ways of civilization.
So what’s drawn you to the greatest city in
Khorvaire? Are you dazzled by the wonders of
Sharn, or do you find the city to be disturbing
and unnatural?

1d4 Outlander

1 You were born in the ruins of Fallen and
grew up feral in Sharn, hunting in the
cogs and sewers. What finally drew you
out into civilization?

2  Youservedasa mercenary scout in the
Last War and followed your comrades
to Sharn in the wake of the war.

3 You were brought to Sham as a
curiosity. You were exhibited in the
upper wards for a time until people
grew tired of you.

4  Youare an exile from your homeland.
Did you commit a terrible crime? Was
your tribe wiped out in a feud? Are you
following a divine vision?

--- PAGE 129 ---

SAGE

You’re well versed in history and arcane

lore, and you have a gift for uncovering the
information you need. What is it that drives your
pursuit of knowledge?

1d4 Sage

1 You’re an untenured researcher at
Morgrave University. You’re fascinated
by history, and you’re desperate to
delve into actual ruins.

2 People think you’re crazy. Yes, you
have a lot of unorthodox theories.
You're certain that hidden dragons
and disguised fiends are manipulating
governments and that the Mourning
was an inside job. And sure, maybe
your “library” is a collection of rotting
books and old issues of the Sharn
Inquisitive pasted on the walls of a
burnt-out bookstore. But what if you’re
right? Hmm?

3 You're with the press. You’re a
freelance chronicler for the Sharn
Inquisitive, always on the lookout for
breaking news. You know your history
and you know how to research a story.
But if you want to make headlines, you
need to be on the scene for something
big.

4 You're on the cutting edge of arcane
theory. House Cannith, Arcanix—
they’re all idiots. You’re on on the
verge of a major discovery (The
cause of the Mourning? The nature
of warforged souls? Establishing
a connection to new realms of
existence?) but the pieces you need
are out there in the world.
SAILOR

Sharn is one of the most important ports in
Eberron. It’s the gate to the Thunder Sea, and
ships come in from across Eberron. Are you a
local, or did you come to Sharn on a Lhazaar
vessel or an Aereni galleon?

1d4
1

Sailor

You’ve got deep ties in Sharn. Your
family owns a ship, and you’ve

spent as much time on the water as
you have on land. Are your people
merchants? Explorers? Or privateers?
Your family works the docks in Sharn.
You know everything there is to know
about ships, and you know half of the
captains who pass through the port,
but you’ve never had the chance to
take to the open sea.

When you were achild, you served as
a deckhand ona ship that explored
the coast of Xen’drik. You saw many
wondrous things... including a secret
location you’ve never forgotten. Now
you’re a capable adventurer in your
own right. Someday you'll lead a ship
back to that forgotten cove!

You're an infamous pirate. You never
harmed a Brelish vessel, but you were
the terror of the Thunder Sea, raiding
merchants and smugglers alike. At
least, you were... until your crew
mutinied, leaving you humiliated and
stranded in Sharn. But you are sure
new fortune lies just ahead!

CHAPTER 6 | SHARN BACKGROUNDS

129

--- PAGE 130 ---

SOLDIER

The echoes of the Last War can still be heard
across Khorvaire. Many player characters may
have served in the Last War, but your Military
Rank feature means that you still have clout from
your service. Did you fight for Breland, or did
you serve in a foreign army?

1d4_— Soldier

1 The war is never over. You know
your enemies are still plotting, and
you’re going to do whatever it takes
to protect your nation. If you’re not
from Breland, that means serving the
interests of your nation in Sharn—
whatever those may be.

2 You're an old soldier: you served with
distinction and retired with honor
decades ago. You’ve got an endless
supply of stories of your heroic deeds.
It’s been a long time since you’ve
been in combat and your skills are a
little rusty. But you’re sure that if you
pick up a sword, it will all come back
to you soon enough.

3 You’re an officer of the Cyran army.
You once held a fairly high rank, but
your nation is destroyed and your
soldiers scattered. Do you still feel
bound to protect your people, are you
only looking out for yourself?

4 Your ties aren’t to the traditional
military; they’re to the Sharn Watch.
You were forced out of the Watch by a
group of corrupt officers. You still have
friends among the guards, but there’s
a lot of bad apples in the barrel. Do
you want to clean up the Watch, or
are you content to enforce justice on
your own?

130 CHAPTER 6 | THE SHAPE OF SHARN
URCHIN

The lower wards of Sharn are riddled with
poverty. You had to find your own path in
the harsh city. Are you an orphan, or were
you scavenging to help ailing parents or needy
siblings? Are you still young, or is your time as an
urchin a thing of the past?

1d4 = Urchin

1 You grew up on the streets of Lower
Dura. You had to find or steal the
things you needed to survive. You
don’t trust anyone or anything...
except the few friends you’ve made
over the years. You’d do anything
for your friends—even become an
adventurer.

2 Asan orphan, you were recruited by
a gang of thieves. The rest of your
crew was wiped out in a brutal gang
war, and now you're looking for a
new team.

3 You grew up crawling the walls,
and you know the city better than
anyone. The world’s a ugly place,
but there’s a lot of wonders in these
towers... and you’re happy to share
those secrets with your friends.

4 You’re a refugee. You were put in the
camp in High Walls, but no walls can
hold you. Sharn itself is an adventure,
and you’re dealing with the horrors
of your past by exploring your new
home.

--- PAGE 131 ---

THE SHAPE OF SHARN

When_you live on the inside low, you never see the
sun. People hear ‘towers’, they think of graceful
little spires, the sort of thing you see poking up in
the corner of your lord’s keep. We've got those, and
lots of ‘em. But the foundation of the city 1s the
core towers. The walls of these towers are so thick,
you could fit your lord’s entire castle m one.

You’ve got your outside districts where you get the
open atr, built on the bridges and platforms that
connect the core towers together. You’ve got the
hitle turrets, built on the core tower walls and the
bridges between. You’ve got the folk in the middle,
who lve and work in the walls themselves. And
then you’ve got those of us on the inside, our
districts entirely contained in the hollow well of
a great tower. You look up in Callestan, you see
twinkling lights, to be sure. But those aren’t stars,
and that isn’t the sky. You’re looking up through
a mule of bridges and platforms crossing the well,
looking up at the districts above you.

You live up high, you can touch the sky. In the
middle you can still see the sun. Down on the
inside low, all we have 1s gloom and the constant
drip, water and worse flowing from down from the
streets above us.

Sharn is the largest city in Khorvaire, with a
permanent population of approximately 210,000
people. Humans make up about a third of that
number, and dwarves are a sixth of it; the rest

is a blend of every race found across Khorvaire.
Halflings, elves, and gnomes have a significant
presence in the city, but even kalashtar and
changelings have communities in Sharn. Beyond
the permanent population, tens of thousands of
people pass through Sharn every day. Refugees
from the war still find their way to Sharn, along
with tourists, spies, merchants, and people
hoping to find their fortune in the grandest city in
Eberron.
Sharn stands above the Dagger River. It’s an
important port for anyone dealing with Aerenal,
Xen’drik, or Sarlona. Mountains line the shores
of the Dagger, and Sharn can’t spread out... so
instead it’s grown ever upward.

Sharn is broken into five “quarters”: Central
Plateau, Dura, Menthis Plateau, Northedge, and
Tavick’s Landing. Each of these quarters is a hub
of massive core towers. A web of bridges and
platforms connects these vast spires, and a host
of smaller turrets sprout from the edges of the
core towers. The district of Skyway floats above
the highest towers, while the tunnels of the Cogs
stretch out below the lower city.

Sharn is a vertical city, and height is a simple
indicator of status and wealth. Each quarter
is roughly divided into three levels, and the
combination of quarter and level defines a
ward. Thus, wards include Lower Dura, Upper
Central, and Middle Menthis. This distinction
gives a general sense of the tone of a ward.

¢ Upper wards are home to the wealthy

and powerful. Here you'll find the finest
goods and the most expensive services. The
typical quality of meals and inns is wealthy
or aristocratic, and rough adventurers may
be treated with suspicion. Violence is rare;
the City Watch is active in these areas, and
if they’re corrupt, they’re at least taking
bribes from people richer than you.

¢ Middle wards are home to the middle
classes. Here you'll find bustling markets
and taverns, along with a wide range of
entertainment and housing. Services range
from modest to comfortable, with a few
wealthy-grade options tucked away. The
City Watch has a presence, but not as
strong as in the upper districts.

¢ Lower wards house the hard-working
laborers, but they’re also home to the
destitute and the desperate... refugees
who’ve lost everything in the war, orphans
and urchins who never had anything to
begin with. Modest services can be found,
but overall the lower districts are squalid
and poor; a visitor in fine clothes might
attract unwanted attention. The City

CHAPTER 6 | THE SHAPE OF SHARN

131

--- PAGE 132 ---

132

Watch pays little attention to the lower
districts, making them a haven for criminals
and gangs.

This is a broad stereotype that doesn’t apply to
all wards. Dura is a particularly poor quarter,
and Upper Dura is effectively a middle ward;
meanwhile, Central is a center of wealth and
power, and Lower Central is also effectively a
middle ward.

Each ward is further subdivided into districts,
neighborhoods defined by an economic role, a
specific community, or both. Lower Northedge
includes the districts of Stonegard, Longstairs,
and North Market. Lower Dura includes seven
distinct districts. This book doesn’t delve deeply
into unique features of each district; the broad
flavor of a ward is enough to drive an adventure.
If you’d like to know more about the districts of
Sharn—along with more information about its
many factions, plots, and locations—refer to the
sources presented in the Appendix.

GetTinc AROUND

Sharn is an enormous city and traveling from
one side to the other can be quite an ordeal. As a
rough guideline...

¢ It takes up to 30 minutes to move around

within a particular ward.

¢ Ifyou’re traveling between wards, add 30
minutes for each ward you pass through.

¢ Dura and Tavick’s Landing are especially
large; double the time to move through one
of these quarters.

So traveling from Lower Menthis to Upper
Central involves passing through three wards
(Lower Menthis to Lower Central, then
ascending two levels) and can take up to 90
minutes. If you want to add a little color to your
travels, you can roll on the Street Encounters
tables when you pass through a district. The
Central quarter is only connected to Northedge
and Menthis, and there’s no bridges between
Dura and Northedge.

CHAPTER 6 | THE SHAPE OF SHARN
SKYCOACHES

Skycoaches are small flying vessels. They
come in a wide range of shapes and sizes.
A typical air taxi might resemble a rowboat,
while a touring vessel could be the size of
a longship and have an enclosed cabin for
guests.

Unlike airships, skycoaches don’t make
use of bound elementals. Sharn is located in
a manifest zone that enhances magics tied
to flight and levitation, and this is what makes
both skycoaches and the towers themselves
possible. If a skycoach is taken more than a
mile away from Sharn, its enchantments will
fail and it will crash.

House Lyrandar maintains and licenses
most of the skycoaches in Sharn, but you
don’t have to have the Mark of Storms
to pilot an skycoach. It does require
specialized training—a tool proficiency with
air vehicles—so if you’re planning to steal an
airship you'll need to make sure you've got
someone who can pilot it.

Traveling from district to district involves
lots of bridges and ramps, along with magic
lifts—vast floating disks that slowly ascend and
descend along threads of mystical energy. Lifts
are designed to move cargo and can be up to 30
feet in diameter. Most lifts have rails but aren’t
fully enclosed; when fighting on a lift, pushing
someone off the edge 1s always a possibility.
Should this happen to you, the section on falling
later in this chapter may prove useful!

There are many ways to speed up travel
in Sharn. House Orien manages a system of
coaches; taking an Orien coach cuts travel
time in half and costs 2 CP per ward travelled.
Flight is the prefered way to get through Sharn,
cutting travel down to a sixth of the usual time
(5 minutes per ward). It’s also more expensive:
2 SP per ward involved. The most common
form of flight is the skycoach, but many flying
mounts can also be encountered in Sharn:
hippogriffs, griffons, glidewings (a small Talentan
pteranodon), and giant owls can all be found
around the city.

--- PAGE 133 ---

TS A CUP-AWAY MAP
ALING THE TRUE CONTOURS OF

SHARN

THE City OF TOWERS

i THE Lo

THE

LAVA
— _— - ~~ 7

a Eee — ni Neer =
Se See > is = —

Ep ALENL aS on eS

a” va QS =.

— SS
“aie a NI —

NV ERG Gailey:

The Hilt

Cocs

PooLs

--- PAGE 134 ---

CENTRAL PLATEAU QUARTER

The power and wealth of Sharn are concentrated
in the Central Plateau. It’s the safest place in

the city, combining the most capable units

of the City Watch with the headquarters of
Sharn’s elite forces. Whether you’re looking to
deal with powerful merchants, city councilors,
dragonmarked barons, or the ambassadors of
other nations, Central Plateau is a place where
deals are made and gold changes hands.

Upper CENTRAL

Both gold and power flow down from Upper
Central. The Council Hall is the seat of city
government, while the Korranath—the grand
temple of Kol Korran—is the heart of Sharn’s
financial district and the location of House
Kundarak’s largest bank... along with the
legendary Kundarak Vaults. Upper Central
houses the mansions and estates of powerful
nobles, along with businesses that cater to them.
Between the Sharn Watch and private security
forces, this is a bad place to start trouble, and
player characters who appear suspicious may be
challenged by guards.

MIDDLE CENTRAL

A center for intrigue and espionage. The
district of Ambassador Towers includes
embassies and consulates from the Thronehold
Nations, along with Aerenal and Sarlona.
Ambassador Towers is also home to the King’s
Citadel, headquarters of Brelish intelligence.
Across the ward, the district of Dragon Towers
holds the primary enclaves of the dragonmarked

134 . CHAPTER 6 | CENTRAL PLATEAU QUARTER
houses. Rounding things out, the district of
Sovereign Towers is home to Sharn’s greatest
monuments of faith, including the Pavilion of
the Host (Sovereign Host) and the Cathedral of
the Cleansing Flame (Silver Flame). While it’s a
middle ward, services are comfortable to wealthy
in quality.

Lower CENTRAL

This district is peaceful and largely residential;
it’s the safest and most pleasant of the lower
wards. Services are largely comfortable in quality,
and the Sharn Watch is plentiful and well paid.

THINGS TO Do IN CENTRAL PLATEAU

Attend an Auction. The Aurora Gallery
(Upper Central) is the finest auction house in
Sharn and specializes in auctions of exotic magic
items and relics from Xen’drik. You never know
what’s going to be available—or who will be
bidding against you.

Plan a Heist. Rob the Kundarak Bank of
Sharn (Upper Central) or the Brelish Museum of
Fine Art (Middle Central).

Go to Jail. The Citadel in Middle Central is
also Sharn’s high-security prison.

Pray. The primary temples of the Sovereign
Host and the Silver Flame are located in Middle
Central, along with a host of shrines to specific
Sovereigns and lesser faiths. Take part in a
festival or drop in for some spiritual guidance!

Espionage! Whether you work for your
nation or get entangled in the schemes of the
dragonmarked houses, there’s a lot of powerful
people in Middle Central with a use for capable
agents.

--- PAGE 135 ---

Dura QUARTER

Sharn began with Dura, but the city has left
it behind. Dura is the oldest quarter of Sharn,
and many consider it to be a blight on the
City of Towers. There are cracks in the stones
and places where enchantments have failed
and never been restored. Dura is riddled with
poverty and crime, and overall, it’s the most
dangerous section of the city. But it also holds
opportunities you can’t find anywhere else...
and if you’re looking for smuggled goods or a
place to lay low, head to Dura.

Upper Dura

This ward is full of life, home to talented artisans
and successful merchants. There’s a seedy

edge to Upper Dura, and in general it has the
qualities of a middle ward. But it’s a place that
welcomes all manner of suspicious customers...
which makes it a haven for adventurers. Clifftop
is a home away from home for explorers and
mercenaries. The Sharn Watch maintains a
fortress garrison in Daggerwatch. The Highhold
district is an upscale dwarven neighborhood;

it’s said that the strongest spirits in Sharn are
served at Morragin’s Tavern. Hope’s Peak is

a temple district, notable for the Citadel of the
Sun. Dedicated to Dol Arrah, this church is
considered to be a true bastion of light. Finally,
the Overlook district is home to most of the
kalashtar in Sharn.

MippLe Dura

Middle Dura caters to the working class of Sharn.
It’s inns and taverns are modest in price, but
there’s gold among the dross. The Bazaar is the
largest commercial district in Sharn, though it’s
certainly shadier than the other major markets

in the city. Middle Dura is home to a host of

inns and taverns. The King of Fire is a popular
tavern and reputable gambling establishment.
Ghallanda Hall has the only comfortable rooms
in the ward; this old inn was the first Ghallanda
enclave in Sharn, and it also has modest and
poor rooms for the common folk of Dura.

Lower Dura

The district of Precarious is the gateway to
Cliffside and the docks of Sharn. The Sharn
Watch maintains an active presence in Precarious,
securing passage to the docks and watching the
many warehouses. The rest of Lower Dura has
been left to rot. Ignored by the Watch, it is the
domain of gangs and crimelords. The district

of Fallen is a haunted ruin; this temple district
was abandoned after a floating tower collapsed
onto it. Malleon’s Gate is home to the goblins of
Sharn, along with other monstrous immigrants
from Droaam and Darguun. Callestan is a center
for criminal activity.

Tuines T0 Do In Dura

Talk About the Race. The inhabitants of Dura
are devoted to the Race of Eight Winds and are
always willing to discuss the latest news.

Gamble. Legal gambling is heavily taxed and
limited in its scope. Dura is home to a wide range
of shadier and more profitable games.

Go Shopping. If you’re looking for expensive
goods shop elsewhere. But the Bazaar of Middle
Dura is an excellent source for exotic goods...
legal or otherwise. Clifftop caters to adventurers
and has a reasonable selection of magical goods.

A Little Crime. Looking for a fence? Need
to find a smuggler or an assassin? Do you want
to set up a meeting with a Boromar lieutenant?
Lower Dura is the nexus for criminal activities
in Sharn.

Suffer A Terrible Accident. The Sharn
Watch ignores Lower Dura, and even in the
higher wards they’re spread thin. There are even
stories of dragonmarked houses and mad wizards
conducting dangerous experiments in Lower
Dura... who’s going to stop them?

CHAPTER 6 | DURA QUARTER

135

--- PAGE 136 ---

136

MENTHIS PLATEAU QUARTER

The hub of Sharn’s entertainment industry and
home to Breland’s largest university, Menthis
Plateau is one of the most diverse quarters in
Sharn. Whether you’re looking for classical
theater, a fine bookstore, or an illegal fighting
ring, Menthis has something to offer.

UPPER MENTHIS

Elegant and civilized, Upper Menthis is home

to four of the finest theaters in Breland: The
cutting-edge Art Temple, colorful Khavish
Theater, traditional Grand Stage, and the open-
air Stargazer Theater, along with the Kavarrah
Concert Hall. It’s the location of Morgrave
University. It includes upscale shops with a focus
on fine food and fashion; the most remarkable
glamerweave in Sharn can be found in Den’iyas,

a gnome district known as “Little Zilargo.”
Adventurers who visit Den’tyas should be careful
not to get involved in the many intrigues and feuds
that play out between the gnome residents.

MIppLE MENTHIS

This ward is the most diverse in Sharn, and
includes communities drawn from across
Khorvaire. The Little Plains district draws
halfling immigrants from the Talenta Plains.
Cassan Bridge has a significant population of
orcs and half-orcs from the Shadow Marches.
Immigrants from the Lhazaar Principalities
have settled in Warden Towers. And Smoky
Towers had a significant Cyran community even
before the Last War; this has become a haven
for Cyrans wealthy enough to avoid the refugee
camps of High Walls. This results in a diverse
array of cuisine, entertainment, and services
drawing on the traditions of these places.

The Everbright district may be of particular
interest to adventurers. This is a hub for mystical
goods and services. ‘There’s a wide assortment of
magewrights, and the shops have a good selection
of common and uncommon magic items. With

CHAPTER 6 | MENTHIS PLATEAU QUARTER
that said, the people of Middle Menthis are
law-abiding folk; if you’re looking for spellcasters
to help you with illegal activities or want to sell
stolen artifacts, you should turn to Lower Dura.

Lower MENTHIS

Providing cheap entertainment to the masses,
Lower Menthis is crowded. It’s filled with sketchy
taverns and theaters ranging from the innocent to
the risque. There are gambling halls, brothels, and
spontaneous performances in the streets. Lower
Menthis is also home to the Burning Ring, a fight
club where spectators bet on amateur gladiators.
Technically illegal, the Burning Ring moves
around the ward. Competitors are armed but
unarmored; matches continue until a contestant
yields, but fatalities do happen.

TuIncs T0 Do In MENTHIS PLATEAU

Consult a Sage. Morgrave University may not
be the finest institute of learning in Khorvaire, but
it’s the best Sharn has to offer. Whether you want
to conduct your own research in the library or to
find a specialist in goblin history or the theory of
manifest zones, Morgrave 1s your best option.

Show Business. Menthis has a host of
performance venues, from the Grand Stage to the
many taverns of Lower Menthis. Spontaneous
street performances are common throughout the
quarter. In addition to enjoying the entertainment,
you could always try to find work—either
showcasing your artistic talents on stage or
displaying your prowess in the Burning Ring.

Join an Expedition. Scholars at Morgrave
often sponsor expeditions to Xen’drik and into
the ruins below Sharn. Cyran nobles in Smoky
Towers look for brave souls to venture into the
Mournland to reclaim lost treasures.

Cultural Exchange. Den’iyas brings a touch
of Zilargo to Sharn. You might find a clawfoot
raptor running down the streets in Little Plains,
or a Gatekeeper druid casting bones on Cassan
Bridge.

--- PAGE 137 ---

NorTHEDGE QUARTER

The residential area is the quietest quarter of
Sharn. At first glance there’s little to attract
adventurers, unless you’re interested in quality
real estate. On the other hand, you never know
when this charming and innocuous quarter could
be hiding a nefarious cult or devilish plot!

Upper NorTHEDGE

This is the perfect place for the noble who can
afford a manor in the clouds but wants to avoid
the bustle of Upper Central. It’s also home to
most of the elves of Sharn. In particular, the
district of Shae Lias is a bastion of Aereni culture
and traditions. The heart of Shae Lias is Gates
of Passage, which serves as the Aereni embassy
and a temple to the Undying Court. The Oaks is
one of the finest restaurants is Sharn (aristocratic
quality... at aristocratic prices). The Veil of
Flesh specializes in body art, both traditional
tattoos and temporary illusions woved directly
into the skin.

MIppLE NorTHEDGE

This ward caters to the middle class of Sharn,
with a wide range of comfortable housing.
Dwarves make up the majority of the population,
especially in the district of Holdfast. In contrast
to Highhold in Upper Dura, the dwarves of
Holdfast have deep roots in Sharn and feel

no strong connection to the Mror Holds or its
traditions. High Hope is a temple district; while
the most impressive churches and shrines are
located in Upper Central, it’s commonly known
that if you’re looking for a truly devoted priest,
you should go to High Hope.
Lower NorTHEDGE

While poor, Lower Northedge is a significant step
up from the slums of Lower Dura. The people

of Lower Northedge don’t look for trouble, and
they don’t like it coming to their doorstep. North
Market is one of the largest markets in Sharn,
though it specializes in simple, everyday goods.
The Stoneyard district has a significant shifter
population; the Rat’s Nest is a tavern catering to
shifters, while the Bear’s Rest is a shifter inn.

TuIncs T0 Do In NorTHEDGE

Settle Down. If you’re looking for a place

to live in Sharn, Lower Northedge combines
reasonable quality and price with more security
than Lower Dura.

Die in Style. The elves of Shae Lias are
experts in funerary customs and embalming. In
addition, Mayne Jhaelian of the Gates of Passage
is one of the few people in Sharn capable of
raising the dead.

Find a Patron. There are many eccentric
nobles in Upper Northedge. A patron of the arts
could take an interest in the career of a bard
or entertainer. A collector might keep capable
adventurers on retainer with the understanding
that they’ll deliver any Dhakaani artifacts they
come across in their travels. You never know
what benefits a patron will provide; at the least,
they can give you an introduction to high society.

CHAPTER 6 | NORTHEDGE QUARTER

137

--- PAGE 138 ---

138

Tavick’s LANDING QUARTER

If you come to Sharn by land or air, you’ll enter
the city through Tavick’s Landing. The quarter
took on a martial aspect during the Last War,
and this can still be felt today. On the positive
side, the Watch Commander Iyanna ir’Talan has
gone to great efforts to purge corruption in the
local garrisons of the Sharn Watch; this is one of
the few districts where the Watch is both helpful
and competent. On the downside, citizens of any
nation that fought against Breland during the
war may be greeted with suspicion or hostility.

Upper Tavick’s LANDING

This ward is effectively a self-contained city
catering to the nobles that live there. It has fine
housing, skilled services, a luxurious mercantile
district, and even an entire district—Sunrise—
devoted to the servants of the nobles. Services
and lodging in Sunrise are poor to modest, as
opposed to the wealthy to aristocratic goods
found elsewhere in the district. During the war,
fears of attacks by foreign agents resulted in the
establishment of a number of laws that affect
adventurers.
¢ The soldiers of House Deneith have full
authority to act as agents of the Sharn
Watch within Upper Tavick’s Landing,
and a hundred elite Blademark mercenaries
maintain checkpoints at the district’s edges.

¢ You need a license to carry a weapon in
Upper Tavick’s Landing. This costs only 5
gp, but you’ll have to plead your case to a
clerk; it’s generally understood that this is
a tool to keep undesirables out of the ward.
Any Blademark or member of the Watch
can demand to see your license and may
confiscate unauthorized weapons.

¢ You also need a license to cast spells in the
ward. This costs 10 gp and you must specify
the spells you wish to cast. A fine can be
levied for any unauthorized use of magic.

CHAPTER 6 | TAVICK’S LANDING QUARTER
¢ Inhabitants must dress “in a manner
that upholds the solemn dignity of this
proud ward.” Blademarks and officers of
the Watch can choose how to interpret
this. Typically, armor is considered
inappropriate unless you’re tied to House
Deneith, the Sharn Watch, or you’ve served
with the Brelish military. Anyone held to be
in contempt of this law is escorted out.

¢ Any sort of unruly behavior—fighting,
shouting in the streets, etc—earns a fine of
up to 5 gp and temporary expulsion from
the ward.

For those willing to put up with these restrictions,
Upper Tavick’s Landing has many fine features.
Wyredd’s Spirits is the best source for wine in
Sharn. The Crystals of Denion buys and sell rare
magic items, though it only has a handful of such
items at any given time; it also sells expensive
magical works of art. Transmutation is the name
of a renowned beauty salon. House Deneith
maintains a fortified garrison and training facility
in the Copper Arch district. To get licenses for
weapons or spellcasting, you'll have to go to the
courthouse in the Twelve Pillars district.

MIDDLE TAVICK’s LANDING

In contrast to the upper ward, Middle Tavick’s
Landing welcomes travelers and tourists. There’s
a host of lively taverns and excellent inns.

The Cornerstone is a massive arena that hosts
everything from circuses to aerial jousting. The
Deathsgate district caters to adventurers, much
like the Clifftop district of Upper Dura. Like
Clifftop, it has an adventurer’s guild—though
the Deathsgate Guild has a dark reputation,

and its members often pick fights with Clifftop
adventurers. House Jorasco has a large house of
healing in the ward, and House Deneith has a
recruiting station for would-be mercenaries. The
Graywall district has deep roots in Karrnathi
culture that predate the Last War, and Slogar’s
and The Bloody Mug are places where you

can find blood sausage and Nightwood ale.
Tavick’s Market is one of Sharn’s main market

--- PAGE 139 ---

districts; it’s right above Terminus station and
is a source for produce and goods brought in by
local farmers.

LowER TAVICK’s LANDING

Visitors arrive at Wroann’s Gate or Terminus,
but they leave through Black Arch, the gateway
to the rest of Sharn. This is a heavily fortified
garrison district, designed to withstand a full
siege. The ward includes other services catering
to travelers; the Dragoneyes district is a maze
of taverns, inns, brothels, and gambling halls.
Dragoneyes is also noteworthy for having one of
the few changeling communities in Breland.

These days, Lower Tavick’s Landing is best
known for High Walls—a former residential
district converted into a home for refugees from
the Last War. High Walls is filled past capacity,
mostly with Cyrans displaced by the Mourning.
Today, the gates are open; but High Walls is
designed to serve as a fortress prison if need be,
and the Sharn Watch keeps an eye out for any
signs of unrest.

THINGS T0 Do IN TAVICK’S LANDING

Gamble. Dragoneyes 1s filled with opportunities
to lose your wages, both in established halls and on
street corners. One especially noteworthy venue

is Chance. If you believe the rumors, Chance can
arrange and cover almost any sort of contest.

Hug a Shifter. Middle and Lower Tavick’s
Landing are home to much of Sharn’s shifter
population. Middle Tavick’s Landing has the
only official court for the shifter sport hrazhak.

Find Refuge. While most of the refugees in
High Walls come from Cyre, the district is a
haven for anyone displaced in the war, including
Brelish victims of the war. It’s over-crowded and
resources are stretched thin. Tensions are high,
and there are feuds and power struggles among
the refugees. If you’re from Cyre, you might have
a cot in High Walls with your name on it; even if
you don’t, you could have friends or family living
in High Walls.

\ CHAPTER 6 | TAVICK’S LANDING QUARTER 139

--- PAGE 140 ---

140

SHARN: ABOVE AND BELOW

The five quarters of Sharn make up the bulk of
the city, but here are additional regions that you
may wish to explore during your time in Sharn.

SKYWAY

There are a number of floating towers orbiting
the upper wards of Sharn, but these are dwarfed
by Skyway, an entire district that floats above
and between Central Plateau and Menthis
Plateau. Built on an island of solidified clouds,
Skyway holds the estates of the wealthiest people
in Khorvaire—nobles whose feet need never
touch the ground. Skyway contains a host of
aristocratic boutiques and restaurants, along with
astonishing mansions. Chief among these is Tain
Manor, home to most powerful family in Sharn.
Celyria ir’Tain is the queen of high society. She
holds a ball at the manor each month, and the
guest list at the Tain Gala defines the social order
in the city. If you need to mingle with celebrities,
find a way to wrangle an invitation to the Tain
Gala. And if you’re looking to pull off a heist on
some of the richest people in Eberron, Skyway is
the place to start.

CLIFFSIDE

This small ward contains the docks of Sharn.
Cargo is hoisted up to the city with magical
cranes, and people take levitating lifts. All

traffic into Sharn passes through the district of
Precarious in Lower Dura, and Cliffside has
much in common with Lower Dura. It’s rough
and poor, filled with sailors and dockworkers. On
the other hand, some people swear that Cliffside
has the finest taverns in Sharn.

THE DEPTHS

Sharn was built on the foundations of an older
city, which was itself built atop goblin ruins.
This old city was destroyed by dark magic—

CHAPTER 6 | SHARN: ABOVE AND BELOW
the elemental powers of the infamous Halas
Tarkanan and his consort, the Lady of the
Plague. It’s said that vile powers still linger in
these ruins, and for this reason King Galifar I
had all passages to this undercity sealed with
gates of metal and magic. These portals remain
sealed today, and it’s illegal to tamper with them.
But it’s generally assumed that there may be
many treasures hidden in the ruins of Old Sharn,
along with untold secrets of the past.

Tue Coes

The Cogs lie deep below Sharn, below
the sewers and even beyond the Depths.
Incorporating natural tunnels and ancient goblin
ruins. Streams of Fernian lava flow beneath
Sharn, and over the centuries House Cannith
has helped Breland establish vast foundries
that tap this mystic resource. Ashblack and
Blackbones are industrial districts, largely
inhabited by warforged laborers and miserable
workers of other races. It’s said that House
Cannith maintains a massive forgehold in the
depths, and that this is where Baron Merrix
d’Cannith conducts his arcane experiments.
In addition, The Red Hammer is Sharn’s only
tavern catering specifically to warforged.
Beyond Ashblack and Blackbones lies
Khyber’s Gate, a maze of tunnels and
tenements carved into the stone. The Sharn
Watch has no presence in Khyber’s Gate,
and the closest thing to an authority is the
criminal organization known as Daask. Many
of the inhabitants of the Gate are goblins and
immigrants from Droaam, but it’s also home to
fugitives and other desperate people. You can
find mad cultists, undead, and even demons,
along with a handful of hermits and visionaries
seeking to escape the city above. Shamukaar is
the most successful tavern in Khyber’s Gate. This
bar is a safe haven for all within it, regardless of
species or politics; once you make it through the
door, you can breathe easy.

--- PAGE 141 ---

TuIncs T0 Do IN SHARN

Sharn is the largest and most cosmopolitan city
in Khorvaire. Covering all the things that you
could do in Sharn could fill an entire book (and
does, as covered in the Appendix!). But here’s

a few things you might want to do during your
time in Sharn.

CELEBRATE

There’s always a celebration in Sharn, whether
it’s a parade in a single district or a festival across
the entire city. Here’s a few to put on your
calendar.

The Ascension (1 Sypheros). A celebration of
the sacrifice of Tira Miron, who gave her life to
serve as the Voice of the Silver Flame. There are
services at all Silver Flame churches and shrines,
and the faithful are encouraged to find some way
to help their communities.

Aureon’s Crown (26 Dravago). A celebration
of knowledge. Elders share their knowledge
with the young. Morgrave University holds its
graduate services on this day, and there are
public lectures at the Great Hall of Aureon in
Upper Menthis.

Boldrei’s Feast (9 Rhaan) is a celebration of
community. There are gatherings across the city,
and the wealthy compete to throw the grandest
parties.

Brightblade (12 Nymm). The festival of Dol
Dorn, celebrated across the city with prizefights,
wrestling matches, archery contests, and other
tests of strength and skill. This culminates with a
grand contest of champions at the Cornerstone in
Middle Tavick’s Landing.

Crystalfall (9 Olarune). During the Last War,
saboteurs caused a floating tower to fall into
Lower Dura. This devastation can still be seen
today in the district now known as Fallen. On
9 Olarune, people gather to commemorate this
tragedy. There’s a tradition of crafting elaborate
ice sculptures and throwing them into the Dagger
River.
The Day of Mourning (20 Olarune). The
nation of Cyre was destroyed four years ago
on the Day of Mourning. While the Mourning
had an impact on everyone in Khorvaire, this
day is especially important for Cyran survivors.
It is a time when Cyrans come together to
remember their lost kingdom. Some tell stories
or sing traditional songs, ensuring their culture
isn’t forgotten. Others seethe with anger at the
enemies who brought Cyre to this place, and it
can be a time for riots or violence.

Fathen’s Fall (25 Barrakas) commemorates a
priest of the Silver Flame martyred while exposing
hidden lycanthropes in Sharn. It is a time when
followers of the Flame come together, but often
causes tensions with the shifter community.

The Hunt (4 Barrakas). In honor of the
Sovereign Balinor, a fierce beast is brought to
the city and released into an isolated section of
the Depths. Anyone can participate in the Hunt
by making a donation of 5 gp; the hunter (or
hunting party) who brings down the beast wins a
purse of 500 gp and the blessing of Balinor. The
Hunt can vary; some years multiple beasts are
released and the hunter who catches the most of
them is marked as the victor. Often, though, the
other hunters are a greater threat than the beast!

Long Shadows (26-28 Vult). It’s said that the
power of the Shadow—-sinister deity of the Dark
Six—is at its height on these three nights. Wise
people spend these nights indoors with friends,
but those who celebrate the darkness may take to
the streets to prey on the weak and foolish.

The Race of Eight Winds (23 Lharvion)
is an aerial race that takes place around Dura
Quarter. See the sidebar for more information.

Sun’s Blessing (15 Therendor). The festival
of Dol Arrah, this is a day of peace and a time
for enemies to find a peaceful resolution to their
conflicts. It’s one of the safest days in the city.

The Tain Gala (First Far of each month). The
ir’Tains are the richest and most powerful family
in Sharn. Each month, Celyria ir’Tain holds a
ball at her Skyway mansion. The guest list defines
the social order of the city; those families with
permanent invitations—known as the Sixty—are

CHAPTER 6 | THINGS TO DO IN SHARN

141

--- PAGE 142 ---

142

the royalty of Sharn. However, Celyria does
invite unusual guests each month, and an up-
and-coming entertainer or a renowned folk hero
might get the call!

Thronehold (11 Aryth) is the day that the
Treaty of Thronehold officially ended the Last
War. This year (998 YK) is only the third time
this event has been celebrated, and the Lord
Mayor of Sharn has promised a truly epic festival.

Wildnight (18-19 Sypheros). Supposedly the
Fury—Sovereign of Passion and Madness—
reaches the height of her power on this night.
Emotions run high and impulse control runs
low. Shy and superstitious folk stay indoors,
while others see it as a time to cast aside all
inhibitions. The streets fill with raucous revelry
and wild celebrations stretch into the night...
though riots, brawls, and other crimes are all
too common on Wildnight.

THE RACE OF EIGHT WINDS

Legends say King Galifar Il used Dura as a
proving ground for aerial cavalry. Over the
centuries this evolved into the sporting event
known as the Race of Eight Winds. Dura

is divided into eight regions for the race,
each of which is represented by a particular
creature. The beasts of Lower Dura include
the Gargoyle, the Glidewing, and the Griffon.
Middle Dura fields the Owl, the Hawk,

and the Eagle. Upper Dura supports the
Hippogriff and the Pegasus.

The race takes place on the 23rd day of
Lharvion, but the inhabitants of Dura are
devoted to the event. Preparations and
debates are ongoing throughout the year,
and as the race grows closer there are
feasts, parades, and ever more serious
arguments between the people of different
districts. The race is an easy topic of
conversation with anyone from Dura, but
professing support for the wrong beast can
be a dangerous thing.

CHAPTER 6 | THINGS TO DO IN SHARN
CoMMUNICATE

Need to get a message to someone? If you’re
not in a hurry, the Orien post has boxes across
the city; you can mail a letter for 1 cp. Hiring
a courier generally costs between 5 cp to 5 gp,
depending on the size of the package and where
you need it delivered. You can find Sivis message
stations in every upper and middle ward, and if
you absolutely have to get a message to someone
instantly, the Sivis enclave in Dragon Towers
(Middle Central) can perform sending for 200 gp.
House Tharashk has brought a new innovation
to message delivery in Sharn: gargoyles.
Tharashk has licensed a score of gargoyles, and
these flying couriers are a quick way to get a
message across the city. If you spot a gargoyle
you can flag it down, and it costs 5 gp to deliver a
letter or small package.

Have A Great FALL

Sharn is the City of Towers, but it’s also a city
of bridges and balconies. These can be extremely
narrow or remarkably wide. There are entire
districts largely spread across vast bridges. While
there are walls and rails on most bridges, there’s
always the chance that your time in Sharn will
end with someone going over the edge. So, what
does that mean?

Those who can afford it usually carry a_feather
token (see chapter 5) as insurance. No token?
Don’t panic! Because of the maze of bridges and
spans connecting the towers, there’s an excellent
chance that you won’t fall more than a hundred
feet before hitting a lower bridge. While this
may seem like small comfort, the major bridges
in the upper and middle wards are enchanted
with feather fall enchantments that trigger
automatically... keeping you from crushing an
innocent passerby in your fall.

Of course, there are many things that could
happen during a lengthy fall. It’s always up to
the DM to decide if you have a straight fall to the
bottom. But the Falling in Sharn table presents a
few of the many possibilities.

--- PAGE 143 ---

1d10

10

Falling in Sharn

You fall hundreds of feet before
striking the ground at the base of
the towers.

You fall 3d6x10 feet before striking
a bridge. A major bridge in an upper
or middle ward will have a feather
fall enchantment, otherwise it’s
going to bea hard landing.

You fall 2d4x10 feet and land ina
passing skycoach. Do you crush an
innocent passenger?

You fall 4d4x5 feet and strike an
outcropping, flagpole, or projecting
statue. If you survive, you’re still
stranded on the edge of a tower or
bridge.

You fall past a hippogriff—make a
Dexterity (Acrobatics) check (DC 15)
to catch its leg!

A giant owl catches you... and
threatens to drop you if it doesn’t
get a reward.

You can fly! Actually, a nearby
magewright cast feather fall to save
you, but for a moment it feels like
you can fly.

You strike a small air elemental that
was drawn to the city. This cushions
your fall... but now you’re on top of
an air elemental.

A guardian angel manifests and
catches you. Is this sheer luck due
to Sharn’s proximity to Syrania? Or
does this celestial have a purpose
for you?

You slip through the manifest zone
surrounding Sharn and find yourself
in the plane of Syrania.

CHAPTER 6 | THINGS TO DO IN SHARN

143

--- PAGE 144 ---

144

CRIMINAL ACTIVITIES
IN SHARN

Crime takes many forms. Any sort of theft is
legal, including “maticious theft of identity” —the
use of shapeshifting abilities or illusion magic to
impersonate someone with the intent to cause
harm. Assault, murder, and fraud will all land
you in hot water. Other crimes walk the edge
of legality. Both gambling and prostitution are
legal in Sharn, but these industries are heavily
taxed and regulated; the most profitable games
are found in the shady halls that operate off the
books. Likewise, smuggled goods include strictly
legal things—illicit drugs, mystical explosives—
but also highly taxed goods from Xen’drik or
other nations.

While crime occurs throughout Sharn, it is
most visible in Lower Dura and the Cogs. The
Sharn Watch has a minimal presence in these
wards, and these are the easiest places to sell
stolen goods or to hire an assassin. Of course,
they’re also good places to get robbed or caught
up in a street brawl.

Sharn is home to a host of minor gangs and
independent criminals. However, most criminal
activities ultimately fall under one of four
criminal organizations; even independents will
usually have an arrangement with one of these
major powers. If your character has the criminal
background, you should work with the DM to
determine which of these organizations you’re
connected to.

CHAPTER 6 | CRIMINAL ACTIVITIES IN SHAKN
THE Boromar CLan

e ... isthe oldest and most powerful criminal
organization in Sharn.

¢ ... dominates gambling, theft, and
smuggling, including the dreamlily trade.

* ... governs a wide network of lesser gangs
and crimelords reaching across Sharn.

e _... has halflings in many leadership roles
but includes members of all races.

° ... is facing a serious challenge from Daask.

The Boromar Clan began with a family of
halfling immigrants from the Talenta Plains.
Today the Boromars are one of Sharn’s most
influential families. There’s a Boromar on the
City Council. The Boromars have close ties by
marriage to the local branch of House Jorasco.
Boromars can be seen at every Skyway gala. But
it’s an open secret that they’ve been running
crime in Sharn since the first days of the city.
They’ve been bribing the Sharn Watch for so
long that in many districts, the Watch effectively
works for the clan.

Having a connection to the Boromar Clan
makes you part of the established power in
Sharn. It’s an organization that values tradition
and prefers to avoid violence. However, you'll be
expected to respect the hierarchy and follow the
rules... and you may be targeted by Daask.

--- PAGE 145 ---

DAASK

e ... isled by monsters from Droaam.

e ... 1s based in the Cogs but has been
recently expanding into the lower wards.

¢ ... specializes in violent crime and
extortion.

* ... is aggressively targeting the Boromar
Clan.

Formed by monstrous immigrants from Droaam,
Daask has been building its power for a decade
and has recently begun an aggressive campaign
of expansion. Humans, shifters, goblins, and
changelings are all found in Daask, but the
organization is built around a monstrous core:
gnolls, ogres, minotaurs, harpies, even a handful
of trolls. The leaders of Daask include oni and
medusas. Daask doesn’t have the connections or
infrastructure of the Boromar Clan, but the sheer
physical force it can bring to bear is impressive.

Daask has almost no influence in the middle or
upper wards, but it is a powerful and dangerous
force below. It’s a simple organization with few
traditions or layers of leadership. Having ties to
Daask gives you allies in the undercity and few
restrictions. But it sets you against the Boromar
Clan and makes you complicit in Daask’s
increasing aggression.
House TARKANAN

* ... isa small, elite force of thieves-for-hire
and assassins.

* ...1s comprised of people with aberrant
dragonmarks.

e ... has a rivalry with the dragonmarked
houses.

* .,. remains neutral in the brewing gang
war.

The members of House Tarkanan all possess
aberrant dragonmarks. Rumors say that the gang
began as a secret Brelish black ops team. True

or not, the members of this small gang are skilled
thieves and assassins whose natural talents are
enhanced by their aberrant marks.

The organization takes its name from Halas
Tarkanan, an aberrant-marked leader who
fought against the dragonmarked houses
centuries ago. In addition to its criminal
activities, House Tarkanan is known to offer
shelter to people with aberrant dragonmarks, and
protects persecuted aberrants.

While anyone can have a contact with the
House, you must have an aberrant dragonmark
to join it. House Tarkanan remains neutral in the
conflict between the crimelords and won’t accept
contracts against gang leaders.

CHAPTER 6 | CRIMINAL ACTIVITIES IN SHARN

145

--- PAGE 146 ---

146

THE TYRANTS

e —... include members of all races, but
primarily changelings and doppelgangers.

¢ ... specialize in information, forgery,
blackmail, and fraud.

* ... remain neutralin the Boromar-Daask
conflict.

The Tyrants are forgers and grifters, specialists
in deception and the acquisition of information.
The majority of the Tyrants are changelings, who
use their shapeshifting abilities to fool marks and
acquire secrets. There are magewrights among
the Tyrants who can permanently alter your
appearance. So, the Tyrants can steal someone’s
identity, but they can also provide a fugitive with
a new life.

The Tyrants are an enigmatic organization.
They act to protect the changelings of Tavick’s
Landing and they pursue schemes that generate
profits. But they also gather secrets they might
never use and, sometimes, even provide
assistance when they don’t appear to benefit from
it themselves.

They have an longstanding truce with the
Boromar Clan and remain neutral in the current
struggles.

Having a connection with the Tyrants gives
you access to expert forgers—and could provide
you with unexpected secrets. One of the tricky
issues with the Tyrants is that many of its
members maintain shared identities. A particular
persona is a job and different changelings may
take it on from day to day. So if you have a
contact in the Tyrants, the contact you meet
seems consistent, but you may actually be
speaking to a different changeling each time you
meet with the organization.

CHAPTER 6 | CRIMINAL ACTIVITIES IN SHARN
OTHERS

The four organizations mentioned here are the
ones people have heard of. The Boromar Clan
is well known in Sharn. The Tyrants have been
around for centuries and are often considered an
urban myth by people who haven’t encountered
them. Daask and House Tarkanan have both
appeared within the last decade, but both are
known to anyone who’s spent much time in the
lower wards.

These are the major players in Sharn’s
underworld, but there’s a host of minor players.
Both the Boromar Clan and Daask support
a number of smaller gangs and criminal
organizations, and it may not be immediately
obvious who a gang is working with. And there’s
always new people looking for opportunities,
who haven’t yet been noticed by the Boromars.
So, this is a partial list. Don’t assume you know
everything about crime.

DREAMLILY

A psychoactive liquid that smells and tastes
like your favorite beverage, essence of
dreamllily is a Sarlonan opiate. First imported
to manage pain during the Last War, it’s now
the most commonly abused illegal substance
in Sharn. Dreamlily dens can be found
across the lower wards.

Dreamlily causes disorienting euphoria and
remarkable resistance to pain. While under
the effects of dreamlily you are poisoned;
you are immune to fear; and the first time
you drop to 0 hit points without being killed
outright, you drop to 1 hit point instead.

A dose of dreamlily typically costs 1 gp,
and the effects last for one hour. However,
there are many varieties, and this may affect
the duration or the price.

--- PAGE 147 ---

STARTING PoINTs

Sharn holds the potential for endless adventures.
The City of Towers can serve as the foundation
of a single adventure or an entire campaign.
Defining a starting point is a way to give an initial
focus to the campaign—setting a tone and giving
players an initial investment in the story. The
player characters may be meeting in a tavern—
but it’s their favorite tavern. The bard performs
twice a week and the barbarian has a huge bar
tab to resolve.
This section explores three different starting
points.
¢ Callestan is in Lower Dura. It’s a
dangerous district riddled with crime and
gang conflict. A Callestan campaign is a
dark neo-noir story.

¢ Clifftop in Upper Dura is a district
catering to established adventurers. This
is a place for pulp heroes, established
explorers whose services are in demand.

¢ Morgrave University is in Upper
Menthis Plateau. This is a college for
adventurers, and an opportunity to add a
little levity to your story.

Choosing and developing a starting point should
be a collaborative process between the players
and the DM. A starting point sets a tone; if

half of the players want a light-hearted romp,
Callestan is a poor choice.

Once you’ve agreed on a starting point, the
next step is to work together to develop the story.
This section provides details about each district,
including prominent NPCs and locations. Using
this as a foundation, each player should work
with the DM to answer the following questions.

Why Are You Here? What has drawn your
character to this place, and what keeps you here?
The idea of using a starting point is that it’s your
home—what does it say about your character that
this place is your home?
Friends and Rivals. Who do you know in
the district? The DM should work with each
player to develop a friend or rival in the area...
or both. A character’s background is always
a good place to start. If you’re a criminal, do
you have a friend in a local gang? If you’re an
entertainer, do you have a professional rival?

If you’re a folk hero, did you deal with a thug
causing trouble in your favorite tavern—earning
you the gratitude of the owner and the enmity of
the villain?

This is a collaborative process and the goal is
to enhance the story, not to spoil it. You may
be friends with a Morgrave professor, but that
doesn’t mean they'll magically solve all your
problems; more likely, they might ask you to
help solve one of their problems. If you’re having
trouble coming up with ideas, the DM can
propose something and have you flesh out the
details: “You’ve made an enemy of a Daask ogre named
Brokentooth. How'd that happen?”

You Meet at a Tavern ... But Which
Tavern? Where do you spend your off hours?
As a group, once you settle on a location, each
player can add one cosmetic detail about it. This
could involve a staff member (“The bartender is an
old dwarf named Clanky; he’s got a prosthetic arm.”?.

It might be something about the food, or about
events hosted at the location (“Once a week, the local
mediums hold a public seance.”). All of these ideas are
subject to DM approval.

You don’t have to have a starting point, and
even if you pick one, you don’t have to answer
all of these questions. The goal of this is to set a
tone—f this campaign is a movie, what kind of
movie is it?—and to give each player a personal
investment in that story.

CHAPTER 6 | STARTING POINTS 147

--- PAGE 148 ---

148

STARTING PoINT: CALLESTAN

The Sharn Watch won’t set foot in Callestan.
Located at the base of Lower Dura, it’s been
abandoned by the city above. Colors are faded,
stones are cracked, and half the buildings should
be condemned. The closest thing this district has
to law is the Boromar Clan... and now they’re
being challenged by the monsters of Daask.
Every day there’s the chance that a war will
break out on the streets.

A Callestan campaign combines gritty dark
fantasy with the classic Western. Callestan
is effectively a frontier town in the middle of
Sharn. The law is what you make it and brigands
walk the streets. But it offers freedoms and
opportunities you won’t find in the towers above!

SETTING THE TONE

Callestan is a district shaped by poverty and
neglect. People come to Callestan to engage
in criminal activities: visiting dreamlily dens,
buying or selling stolen goods, negotiating with
a Boromar lieutenant or hiring a Tarkanan
assassin. The thing that holds the district together
on a daily basis is personal reputation and
relationships. The reason no one robs the Anvil is
because people love Eranna... and because they
know Ilsa Boromar would hunt them down.
Poverty is a part of a Callestan campaign. Most
of the people in this district have never seen
a platinum piece, and a single gold piece has
considerable value. Maintaining a comfortable
lifestyle can be a challenge, and an uncommon
magic item is a significant treasure. The material
rewards of adventure should be lower than in
a heroic fantasy campaign. But reputation and
relationships are the true treasures of this style of
campaign. If you save Ilsa Boromar, she might
give you a purse with 10 gp for your trouble...
but her favor may provide you with far more
protection than a set of +/ armor.
An important piece of the tone is that no one
cares what happens to Callestan. Things can occur
here that would never happen in the upper

CHAPTER 6 | STARTING POINT: CALLESTAN
towers. Daask might release a gorgon into the
streets. The necromancers of the Emerald Claw
could test a necrotic weapon or a new form of
undead. A pack of wererats could take root,
unnoticed by the Church of the Silver Flame. It’s
a grim truth that anything can happen here...
but it’s also a great source of adventure.

Way Are You Here?

What brought you to Callestan, and should your
fortunes change, why would you stay?

You may have roots in the district. Perhaps
your mother ran a small gang that was wiped out
when you were a child. Maybe your family still
lives here, running a struggling business.

For many people, the appeal of Callestan 1s
its freedom. If you’re a criminal or a charlatan,
you’re likely connected to one of the gangs and
you appreciate the opportunity to ply your trade.
As a sage you could be engaging in research that
your compatriots feel is dangerous. As an acolyte
you might harbor heretical beliefs.

A variation of this is that you’re hiding.

As a devout cleric or paladin, you may have
made enemies of the corrupt authorities in

the local churches. If you use the haunted one
background, you may have seen something in

the upper wards that has driven you into the
darkness. Any character could have run afoul of
the Sharn Watch, a powerful noble, or a sinister
conspiracy; if you leave the lower wards, you may
have to evade this enemy.

Another option is that you’ve taken on a role
in the community. Your cleric is the preacher for
the district, trying to help these troubled people
find the light. Your soldier or folk hero serves as
the unofficial sheriff, protecting the innocent as
best you can. You might work as a ratcatcher, a
healer, or a private inquisitive solving mysteries.
Callestan may be miserable, but it’s your home
and these are your people.

Waar Do You Want?

Once you know what you’re doing in Callestan,
the next question is where you want to go from

--- PAGE 149 ---

here. What motivates your character? What
could drive you to place yourself in danger?

Do you want to help your friends, or protect

the innocent people of the neighborhood? Are
you seeking revenge on a powerful enemy or
organization? Are you trying to establish your
own business, or make an arcane breakthrough?
These can be long-term goals or general themes,
but it’s good for both player and DM to know
what motivates the characters.

THE SHAPE OF THE DisTRICT

The heart of Callestan is the plaza called the
Bridge. This central square serves as an open
market and speaker’s corner. It’s not on a bridge;
rather, the center of the plaza contains the
wreckage of a bridge that fell from one of the
higher wards.

More recently, the Bridge has taken on
another meaning: it’s the line between Boromar
territory and the wilds. Everything to the west
of the Bridge is still under Boromar dominion.
Fences, dreamlily dens, gambling holes—if it’s
Westbridge, the Boromars take a cut and will
act to protect it. The halfling Ilsa Boromar
is the local clan leader. She despises needless
cruelty but is ruthless in protecting her family’s
interests. Eastbridge is a blend of Boromar
loyalists, Daask insurgents, refugees and veteran
soldiers driven here by war, even a small band of
warforged. Westbridge is as safe as Callestan gets,
while anything goes in Eastbridge.

Westbridge has a significant halfling population.
In Eastbridge, a group of goblins, kobolds, and
gnolls have taken up residence in a block of
condemned tenements known as the Kennels.
Aside from this, Callestan is incredibly diverse,
and members of any race can be found here.

Callestan is an inner district, which means
that it’s largely enclosed in one of the massive
core towers of Dura Quarter. However, it’s large
enough that it extends out to the walls of the
tower. Many people live in or on the walls, in
tenements or shops carved into the thick stone.
INTERESTING LocaTIONS

The Anvil was once The Golden Anvil, House
Ghallanda’s flagship inn in Sharn. Now it’s
faded and forgotten, but it still has traces of its
former glory. There’s a few gaming tables and
a small stage; there’s a dwarf comedian who’s
been doing the same act for sixty years. While
most services are modest or poor in quality,
there is a single comfortable room. Eranna
d’Ghallanda runs the inn; she’s kind, honest,
and much beloved in the district. The Anvil is
on the west side of the Bridge and is a common
hangout for Boromar allies.

The Broken Mirror is an inn run by a family
of changelings; the theme and tone of the inn
changes every week. It’s said to have ties with the
Tyrants, which keeps troublemakers away.

The Butcher’s is a combination butcher
shop and bar in Eastbridge. It’s popular with
the local gnolls and is the best place to find
Daask soldiers, though not all monsters in the
region have ties to Daask.

The Crooked Cat is home to dozens of cats,
and this odd feature draws tourists from the
higher wards. The proprietor is a shifter named
Whiskers. He runs a side business as a fence,
buying and selling unusual goods. Rumors say
that Whiskers is some sort of warlock or druid,
and that he can see through the eyes of his cats as
they wander the city.

The General is a headless statue in a small
square in Eastbridge. It’s hundreds of years old,
and no one actually knows who it represents.
The statue radiates the effects of a sanctuary spell
within a 15-foot radius and serves as a refuge for
those in danger. The most destitute inhabitants of
the district often sleep around the General.

The Silvermist Theater stands on the
west side of the Bridge. Like the Anvil, it’s a
remnant of Callestan’s glory days; a fine theater
that’s a rotting shadow of its former self. The
current owners have grand ideas about future
productions, but it’s the dreamlily parlor in the
basement that keeps the theater open.

CHAPTER 6 | STARTING POINT: CALLESTAN

149

--- PAGE 150 ---

150

STARTING Pont: CLIFFTOP

Sharn is a city with an appetite for adventure.
It’s the gateway to Xen’drik, a land filled with
mystery and danger. Eccentric nobles and
dragonmarked barons alike need capable agents
for their many intrigues. So Sharn has a steady
demand for adventurers, and Clifftop is where
you go to find them.

A Clifftop campaign focuses on heroic
fantasy. You’re a professional adventurer with a
reputation established, and you’re always ready
for the next challenge. When you live in Clifftop
every day brings a new thrilling challenge—a
new chance to put your life on the line in pursuit
of fame and fortune.

SETTING THE TONE

Clifftop runs with the idea that the player
characters are known as adventurers. They’ve
accomplished remarkable feats and beaten
impossible odds. One way to reflect this is to start
the characters off at a higher level than usual.
With the DM’s approval, use the following rules
to create a Clifftop adventurer.

¢ You begin at 5th level.

¢ You start with 600 gp in addition to your
normal starting equipment.

¢ You have two common magic items and
two uncommon magic items.

All magic items are subject to the approval of the
DM, and the DM may choose whether to assign
these items or to allow you to select the items
you want. Either way, take a moment to come
up with the story behind these items. How did
you acquire them? Were they treasures found on
your adventures? Heirlooms from your family
or your time in the Last War? Or just something
you bought with your earnings? One point

about a Clifftop campaign is that you won’t stay in
Cliffiop. This district is your base of operations,
home to valued comrades and rivals. It’s

where you get your next job. But as a Clifftop
adventurer you'll be venturing to exotic locales.

CHAPTER 6 | STARTING POINT: CLIFFTOP
You may delve into the ruins below Sharn or
crash an airship into Skyway. You may head to
Xen’drik or other distant lands. Wherever you
go, adventure awaits!

Way Are You Here?

As a resident of Clifftop, you’ve got a reputation.
What is it, and how did you earn it? Are you a
new prodigy, or an old retired hero who’s just
getting back into the game?

As always, consider your background. If you’re
a soldier, you might have had a celebrated
career. As an entertainer, you might perform
at one of the theaters of Upper Menthis
between adventures. If you’re a sage you could
be considered an expert in arcane lore or the
history of Xen’drik, giving lectures at Morgrave
University in your spare time.

One question to consider is if you’re part of the
Clifftop Adventurers’ Guild. This is serves
as a social club for adventurers and a one-stop
marketplace for anyone seeking to hire a capable
and reliable champion. If you’re part of the
CAG you have access to the guild hall and a
host of potential friends and allies. Perhaps you
have a mentor at the guild, a retired adventurer
who regales you with tales of her epic deeds. Or
maybe you’ve take a novice under your wing and
you’re teaching him the ropes. A critical point
is that the CAG has a positive reputation and
doesn’t condone evil behavior; if you’re part of
the Clifftop Adventurers’ Guild, you’re expected
to adhere to its codes of conduct. Less reputable
characters can find work with the Deathgate
Adventurers’ Guild in Middle Tavick’s
Landing. There’s a long-standing rivalry between
the two guilds, and if you’re part of the CAG you
might work with the DM to develop a particular
nemesis in the Deathsgate guild.

Waar Do You Want?

As a Clifftop adventurer, you’re regularly putting
your life on the line. What is it that brought you
to this risky line of work? Is it just about the gold?
Are you driven by academic curiosity? Are you

--- PAGE 151 ---

seeking the answer to a particular mystery, or
searching for clues about an ancient threat? Are
you primarily interested in your reputation—
perhaps hoping to gain entry to the legendary
Wayfinder’s Foundation, or to prove yourself
to your family or your true love?

THE SHAPE OF THE DisTRICT

Clifftop sits atop Dura Quarter. While it’s an
upper ward, it’s still part of Dura Quarter. The
stone is drab granite and the towers are simple
and functional. It’s no match for the splendors
of Upper Central or Skyway... but the colorful
inhabitants more than make up for the somewhat
dingy surroundings.

In Clifftop, a ring of simple apartments and
hostels circle the pinnacle, a high peak filled
with shops and services catering to adventurers.
The laborers and artisans who keep the district
running are usually ready to drop their daily
tasks and serve as hirelings.

The Clifftop Adventurer’s Guild is the
physical and social heart of the district. You don’t
have to be a member of the CAG to get work
in Clifftop, but it certainly helps. The current
leader of the guild is a dwarf named Sumara
Korranor, but she goes by Summer. If you’re
part of the CAG, the DM and the players should
work together to add additional details about
Summer: what are her traits and quirks? What’s
an interesting encounter you’ve had with her, or
a story you’ve heard about her?

Violence and crime are relatively rare in
Clifftop; the members of the CAG usually
handle any troubles that arise. However, the
district is under the jurisdiction of Watch
Commander Lian Halamar, a halfling who
runs the Daggerwatch garrison in Upper Dura.
Halamar has no love for adventurers and is
always happy to catch a member of the CAG on
the wrong side of the law. It’s generally assumed
that Commander Halamar is working for the
Boromar Clan, though he’s never committed the
Dura Watch to their struggles with Daask.
INTERESTING LocaTIONS

The Augury is home to a circle of magewrights
who specialize in divination magic, including
augury (50 gp), divination (200 gp), zdentify (150

gp) and speak with dead (200 gp). ‘The master of
the Augury is an elf named Kestia. She has

ties to a number of angels of Syrania, and if she
chooses she can perform commune. However, as
this requires her to call in a celestial favor, it’s not
something she offers as a standard service.

The Drunken Dragon is a legendary
watering hole. While the service is slow and the
food is modest at best, it has the widest selection
of beverages and spirits in Sharn... and maybe
Khorvaire. From Lhazaar mead to the fermented
honey-milk favored by the shifters of the Eldeen
Reaches, if it’s strong and strange you can find
it at the Drunken Dragon. The proprietor,
Hascal d’Ghallanda, has the Greater Mark of
Hospitality and can give his favorite customers
access to his magnificent mansion.

House Sivis maintains a small enclave in
Clifttop. In addition to the speaking stone, this
outpost specializes in translating exotic texts and
providing legal services to adventurers in trouble
with the law. Josilian Tarli d’Sivis is one of
the best barristers in Sharn, though certainly one
of the most expensive.

Kavv’s is quieter than the Drunken Dragon,
but the food is far better. Saza and Taji Kavwv
are immigrants from the city of Stormreach in
Xen’drik, and use many exotic ingredients and
spices the people of Khorvaire have never tasted.
The Kawvs have many friends in Stormreach,
and their insights and contacts could be useful to
adventurers heading to Xen’drik.

The shops of the Mystic Market deal in
magic items, whether locally produced or bought
from explorers. The Mithral Blade produces
fine and uncommon weapons and armor. Wise
Wood buys and sells arcane focuses and other
wands. The Moonlit Loom deals in magical
clothing; the Dragon’s Hoard sells wondrous
items; and Boldrei’s Tears and Good Spirits
are a source of reliable potions.

CHAPTER 6 | STARTING POINT: CLIFFTOP

151

--- PAGE 152 ---

152

STARTING POINT:
Morcrave UNIVERSITY

Morgrave University is the largest institute of
learning in Breland. While it’s not as prestigious
as Arcanix or the Library of Korranberg,
Morgrave is known for its unorthodox methods
and hands-on style of teaching. If you want to
learn about the history of Sharn, what better
way than to explore the ancient ruins below the
city? Critics say that Morgrave is a college of
tomb robbers, and much of its endowment does
come from the sale of artifacts recovered on its
expeditions.

Morgrave University can be a useful resource
in any style of campaign. It’s an asset for sages
conducting research and a source of potential
patrons. But it can also be the foundation of a
campaign: heroic fantasy seen through the eyes
of students at the university.

SETTING THE TONE

A Morgrave campaign is a coming of age story
in a fantasy world. In between delving into ruins
and uncovering demonic schemes, the player
characters need to decide what to do with their
lives, humiliate their rivals, and figure out what
to wear to the Crystalfall dance. You can play up
the humor in this scenario, but it can be just as
dark as Callestan if you choose.

A Morgrave campaign isn’t driven by material
wealth. Even when you go on expeditions, the
University will lay claim to most of the treasures
you find. Instead, the rewards of Morgrave
adventures are measured in relationships and in
learning. Can you earn a professor’s trust? Can
you get unrestricted access to the library stacks?
Can you impress that mysterious stranger?

At the DM’s discretion, accomplishing these
sorts of side goals can provide concrete benefits.
A wizard who has access to the library may be
able to swap one of their known spells at start
of each session. As a simple reward, a character
who accomplishes a meaningful personal goal

CHAPTER 6 | STARTING POINT: MORGRAVE UNIVERS
could receive one to five hero points, as described
on page 264 of the Dungeon Master’s Guide.
Another twist that works well with a Morgrave
campaign is to use story-based advancement
instead of standard XP. Level advancement
could be based on time: player characters gain
one level each semester, leveling up after finals.
Alternately, advancement could be tied to
achieving specific goals: You'll all gain a level as
long as your professor survives the expedition!
See page 261 of the Dungeon Master’s Guide for

more information.

Way Are You Here?

As a Morgrave student, you’re not an adventurer
yet. You’ve got talent, but you’re learning.
Consider how your background ties into this.

As a noble, are you an entitled rich kid who
thinks you’re better than everyone else? As an
urchin, did you somehow earn a scholarship,

or are you literally sneaking into your classes?

As a criminal, you could be the daughter

of a Boromar crime boss, or you might be an
entrepreneur selling dreamlily to the nobles. A
charlatan could be a brilliant drama student

or an undercover spy trying to root out enemy
agents in the faculty. If you’re an entertainer
you might be a prodigy whose talent is only just
emerging. A Morgrave story is about coming of
age and unlocking your potential. So think about
your background as a way to set up the person
you’re becoming, as opposed to representing
adventures that you’ve already had.

Waar Do You Want?

Figuring out what you want in life is one of the
main goals of a Morgrave campaign. As wizard
you’ve got remarkable arcane talents. But what
are you going to do with them?

You can establish a grand goal from the
beginning. Perhaps your wizard needs to master
magic to summon and destroy the demon that
killed your parents. The bard is determined to
play on the Grand Stage. The paladin keeps
having a divine vision... but what does it mean?

ITY

--- PAGE 153 ---

But such goals should be something that guide
you down the path of knowledge—things that
can evolve and change with your character.

THE SHAPE OF THE DisTRICT

Morgrave University is located in Upper Menthis
Plateau, where it occupies the aptly named
University district. The university itself occupies
the massive Dalannan Tower; this includes a
number of layers.
¢ The tower is crowned by Lareth Hall,
a beautiful domed structure than holds
administrative and faculty offices.

¢ Classrooms and auditoriums occupy
Dalannan Proper, the levels directly
below the dome.

¢ The Dezina Museum of Antiquities
occupies a number of levels below
Dalannan Proper. This showcases many
wonders recovered from Xen’drik and
other expeditions, though anything truly
valuable tends to be sold by the university.

¢ The Morgrave University Library
stretches down below, with levels and levels
of stacks below the public reading rooms.
While the library has its imits—including
a level of disorganization that results in
texts being randomly lost in the stacks for
decades—tt is the most extensive collection
in Breland.

¢ Below the Library lie the Vaults.
These hold crates of relics waiting to be
catalogued, shelves of oddities deemed to
have little monetary or academic value, and
a few heavily secured chambers holding
artifacts deemed too valuable or dangerous
to be put on display.

Breland Spire is adjacent to Dalannan Tower
and holds the standard student dormitories. The
Commons 1s a large open-air plaza situated
atop Breland Spire. This massive rooftop garden
serves as a space for reflection, public events, and
meals; vendors at the edge of the Commons offer
a wide range of culinary options. A wide bridge

CH
connects the Commons to Dalannan Proper.
One side of this bridge holds little shops and
vendors catering to students, while the opposite
side is the standard place to display notices of
interest to students.

INTERESTING LocaTIONS

Upper Menthis is a center for entertainment,
and a number of Sharn’s finest theaters are
located in the University District, including the
edgy Art Temple, more traditional Grand
Stage, and the legendary Kavarrah Concert
Hall. Of course, few students can afford to

go to the Kavarrah, and they may go down to
Middle Menthis for the more affordable shows
and dinner theater. Students feeling bold may
descend as far as Lower Menthis, home to a wide
variety of illicit entertainments... including the
prizefights of the Burning Ring. But for those
who stay close to home, here’s a little of what the
University district has to offer.

Detention. This tavern celebrates its
reputation as a watering hole for the worst
students in Morgrave. There’s always an exotic
drinking game or a lively debate on the current
state of the Race of Eight Winds. Detention is
run by a halfling who calls herself Brandy. She
claims to be a excoriate, driven from House
Ghallanda after refusing to water down her ale,
but some say she’s the Ghallanda patriarch’s
heir. The warforged bouncer Bumper keeps the
rowdiest students under control.

Golden Horn. This wealthy inn includes a
library, a few large meeting rooms, and a small
concert hall. Rumors say that this is an outpost
of the secret Circle of Song, a society of bards
and entertainers spread across Khorvaire;
others swear that House Thuranni and House
Phiarlan regularly send talent scouts to the
Golden Horn. Many aspiring musicians perform
at the Horn in the hopes of being noticed by
one of these organizations.

The Great Hall of Aureon. Devoted to the
Sovereign of Law and Lore, this grand temple is
an architectural marvel as well as a sacred site.
Many scholars and sages make the pilgrimage

APTER 6 | STARTING POINT: MORGRAVE UNIVERSITY 153

--- PAGE 154 ---

154

and spend one night in the Great Hall, hoping
that inspiration will strike them as they sleep;
stories say that Merrix d’Cannith first conceived
of the warforged after spending the night in the
temple. The staff of the temple are devoted to
their faith—a rarity in Sharn—as well as to the
general acquisition of knowledge. Most priests
are also experts in a particular field of study and
are usually happy to share their knowledge with
students.

Honors. The counterbalance to Detention,
Honors is both bar, bookstore, and reading
room. Many of the more respectable faculty
members take their meals in Honors, and it’s a
good place to find a debate on the cosmology of
Eberron or the morality of the Last War.

Casses AT MoRGRAVE

Morgrave’s physical education classes cover
everything from acrobatics and athletics to
archery, dueling, and various other forms of
combat. The arcane studies program covers
the Arcana skill, as well as honing the abilities
of arcane casters. Divine magic can’t simply be
taught, but Morgrave has classes in theology and
religious history—essentially, the Religion skill.
While these classes may not make for
interesting adventures, Morgrave is famous for
its hands-on teaching style. This often involves
competitions against other students. It can also
involve a professor’s personal projects: Why don’t

you come help with this conjuration? Trust me, nothing

will go wrong. Once students have proven their
competence, it can involve expeditions—trips
into the Depths of Sharn, or even to distant
countries or lands.

Although Morgrave professors are experts
in their fields, this doesn’t mean they have all
the abilities of high level player characters! Just
because that conjuration professor can perform
a summoning ritual doesn’t mean he can cast

fireball. Always remember that player characters are

exceptional—and as that talent begins to show,
people are sure to take an interest in you.

CHAPTER 6 | STARTING POINT: MORGRAVE UNIVER:

--- PAGE 155 ---

A Quick Suarn Story

Use these tables as inspiration for the weary DM
who needs to put together a story in a hurry.
Don’t feel bound to use any of these details
exactly as presented—this is purely a source of
ideas. The Villain table suggests an archetype
along with an organization; consider both as

as possibilities. A local crimelord could be tied
to House Tarkanan or the Tyrants instead of
Daask. The sinister cultist could be a priest of the
Mockery—or a mind flayer serving the Daelkyr.
Make every story your own!

THE HOOK

1d8 = Plot Hook

1 One of the PCs is nearly crushed when
a man falls from a high bridge, striking
the ground near them and dying
instantly. He’s carrying a sealed bag
of holding and the badge of an agent
of the Argentum, a Thrane agency
dedicated to the retrieval of dangerous
artifacts.

2 The PCs are caught in the middle ofa
pitched battle... and they don’t know
the people on either side.

3. _The PCs notice a corpse in an alley... a
corpse that looks exactly like one of the
player characters.

4 _ A former comrade in arms shows up.
She’s badly injured, and her enemies
are right behind her.

5 Agargoyle courier delivers a
mysterious package.

6  Adelirious street preacher has an
apocalyptic vision concerning one of
the player characters.

7 The PCs discover a bound-elemental
explosive device in their quarters. They
have three rounds to flee or attempt to
disarm the device.

8 — Askycoach crashes through the wall.

Is this an attack, or the result of
sabotage?
THE VILLAIN

1d12 Villain

1

Oo ON DU FP WN

FR
PrP oO

12

A dragonmarked baron
An eccentric noble (Aurum)
A local crimelord (Boromar Clan)

A nefarious necromancer (Emerald Claw)

A sinister cultist (Dragon Below)

A misguided paladin (Silver Flame)

A clever doppelganger (Tyrants)

A vengeful warforged (Lord of Blades)
A possessed innocent (Dreaming Dark)
An oni mastermind (Daask)

An enigmatic rakshasa (Lords of Dust)
A disguised dragon (The Chamber)

THE PLOT

1d10 Plot

1

oO ON DU BPW HN

py
Oo

Arrange a dangerous alliance.

Acquire a powerful artifact.

Assemble and use a magical weapon.
Defeat a rival.

Open a planar portal.

Summon fiends or undead.
Overthrow a peer or superior.

Cause ariot in the Cogs.

Start a war between two allies.
Collapse Skyway or one of the towers.

CHAPTER 6 | A QUICK SHARN STORY

155

--- PAGE 156 ---

THE TWIST

1d8 Twist
1 A friend or former ally is working with
the villain.
2 The villain is not who they appear to
be.
3 A third party shows up with their own
agenda.

4 There’s a hostage, or an ally of the PCs
is directly at risk.

5 A manifest zone or planar conjunction
has an unexpected effect.

6 The villain has a personal connection
to one of the PCs.

7 The initial plot was just a distraction
from the actual plot.

8 The villain is fighting a greater evil,
and their plot is an important part of
that.

156 . CHAPTER 6 | THESTREETS OF SHARN
THE FINAL SCENE Is IN...

1d8

10

Finale Location

An invisible floating fortress above
Sharn.

The heart of Khyber’s Gate in the
Cogs.

The Bridge in Callestan in Lower Dura.
A Cannith forgehold seized by the
villain’s forces.

The heart of the High Walls refugee
camp in Lower Tavick’s Landing.

A festival at the Pavilion of the Host in
Upper Central Plateau.

Anoble’s mansion in the restricted
districts of Upper Tavick’s Landing
The vaults of Morgrave University in
Upper Menthis Plateau.

An abandoned foundry in the Cogs.

A demiplane with unusual properties.

--- PAGE 157 ---

THE STREETS OF SHARN

The player characters are making a trip from
Lower Dura to Upper Menthis. What happens
along the way? The tables on the following pages
are filled with ideas for random things and people
you might encounter while wandering around
Sharn. These could be used as pure color, or you
could expand any one of these ideas to spark a full
scene if the initial situation attracts the players’
interest. Not every result from the table needs

to be the beginning of something in your story.
Simply showing that Sharn lives and thrives
around the players’ characters—that it’s full of
stories happening all the tme—helps bring the
city to life for everyone.

Use these tables as sources of inspiration. They
reflect the general activities and flavor of the
different levels of Sharn, but you can tailor the
results to be a better match for any ward.
BEHIND THE RESULTS

The entries in the following tables depict things
that adventurers in Sharn might encounter

by chance or happenstance. Each of these is

an immediate, visible part of someone’s life in
Sharn. Each entry also has room to imply or
imagine backstory or history—and to encourage
players to ask “What happens next?”

What happens next depends on their
involvement. What led up to this moment is fuel
for the ever-burning fire of Sharn’s own history
and character. Consider answering one or more
of these questions to add another dimension to
each entry in the table:

¢ Where did participants in this moment start

off? Where did they wake up today?

¢ Why aren’t other locals participating?
What’s complicating things here?

¢ What do participants in this moment hope
will happen? What are they afraid might
happen? Why now?

CHAPTER 6 | THE STREETS OF SHARN

157

--- PAGE 158 ---

158

LOWER SHARN STREETS

2d20 Streets of Lower Sharn

2

10

11

12

13

14

You find a newly-painted mural of a
halfling standing atop the bloody corpse
of an ogre.

A dwarf is selling kebabs from a cart.
“Crispy spiced rat!” He cries. “The best
in the tower!”

A changeling street performer adopts
your face and begins to match your
actions.

Anold goblin has goods laid out for
sale, odds and ends salvaged from the
sewers.

A pack of children clusters around you,
begging for copper or food. Do you help
them?

An attractive young human presses a
small pamphlet into your hand. “Come
to Chance in Dragoneyes! All bets will
be covered!”

A sudden, horrible stench makes you
gag.

You come upona minotaur witha
broken horn and a spiked club in one
hand. He’s urinating against a wall, and
snarls when he notices you watching.
A half dozen rats are clustered around
a bloody bundle of cloth. They scurry
away as you approach.

A young half-elf with a crimson
eyepatch offers a fine set of pens and
parchment for sale, at a price of 3
sovereigns (3 sp). “Top notch! And not
stolen or anything.”

You step into a shallow puddle... and
then realize it’s a pool of fresh blood.
You nearly walk into a well-dressed
halfling. She studies your face carefully
and scowls. Other onlookers carefully
turn away.

A large black and white cat watches you
from an alley. It’s caught a surprisingly
scaly rat.

CHAPTER 6 | THESTREETS OF SHARN
15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

Hungry people stand in line outside a
shrine to Boldrei, waiting for conjured
bread.

You bump into a medusa, causing her
to drop the package she’s carrying.

You freeze for a moment, then realize
she has a leather band covering her
eyes. Her serpent mane hisses as she
retrieves her belongings.

Fresh graffitishows aCyran crown with
a sword through it. The text reads “Cyre
is dead, no place for Mourners.”

A group of shifter children take turns
trying to make the biggest howl,
laughing in between.

Two shifters are arguing in the street.
One of them snarls, and sharp fangs
extend from her gums.

A young woman is repairing a damaged
everbright street lantern, muttering
curses under her breath.

A well-dressed elf from Aerenal walks
along the filthy street, accompanied by
a dour ogre hauling a large trunk. The
elf’s face is hidden behind a brass mask,
but he looks lost.

A group of drunken soldiers are singing
a warbling Brelish anthem from the
Last War. A few of them spot you and
demand that you join in. Do you?

A dwarf and a goblin are arguing

about the Race of Eight Winds, a local
sporting event. The goblin insists that
the Gargoyle will win this year, while the
dwarf supports the Griffon.

A warforged skirmisher and a Valenar
elf are engaged in an argument. The
elf takes a step back and draws her
scimitar.

A trio of hobgoblins walk through a
makeshift market as though they’re
hunting for something.

--- PAGE 159 ---

26

27

28

29

30

31

32

33

You’re drenched by a sudden gout of
water—you hope—from a bridge above
you.

A group of Cyran refugees are gathered
ina circle, singing a haunting song.

You see a tall, thin woman pulling a
body—Dead? Drunk?—into an alley. Her
arm is covered with the blood-red lines
of an aberrant dragonmark.

The window of a bakery holds a display
of impossibly beautiful cookies. What is
this quality of goods doing down here?
Outside a shop, a grimy halfling
promises better deals just down the
alleyway.

A dragonmarked gnome walks down
the street, carrying a small stone in his
hand. Every few yards, he raises the
stone to his lips and says, “Can you hear
me now? Good.”

An austere monk of the Silver Flame
makes their way down the street,
handing provisions to beggars.

You hear someone softly singing the
Bear’s March, a Brelish battle anthem
from the Last War. The singer is a young
man leaning against the wall; he’s
missing his left arm.
34

35

36

37

38

39

40

A headless warforged sits in an alley
begging for coin. It waves ina signal of
thanks whenever someone drops a coin
in its bowl.

A crowdis gathered around a young
adept of the Silver Flame. She’s
performing a ritual to purify a pool of
run-off water.

You notice a large metal hatch in the
ground, engraved with warding symbols
and a ancient proclamation that it
should never be opened.

A group of goblin children chatter and
shout at one another. They scatter when
they see you approach.

A goblin tumbles out of a nearby tavern.
A warforged juggernaut steps out of the
door and snarls “Don’t come around
here until you can pay!”

A trio of Morgrave students take notes
and they ask a goblin about “the goblin
experience.”

Near one of the entrances to the Cogs,
you come upon a large mob chanting
slogans and shouting. The carry signs
protesting the use of warforged
laborers.

CHAPTER 6 | THE STREETS OF SHARN

159

--- PAGE 160 ---

MIDDLE SHARN STREETS

2d20 Streets of Middle Sharn

2

10

11

12

13

“Best tours! All the facts!” crows a
kenku guide, trying to catch your eye.
An Aundairian man in a glamerweave
vest—patterned with blazing flames—
interrupts your travel. “You know the
best place to play cards around here?”
A cheerful gnome offers olfactory
illusions. “For just five crowns, | can
make the most dismal districts smell
like roses!”

A clump of hippogriff dung falls from
the sky.

A halfling vendor is selling dried lizard
jerky from a wagon. “Talentan style!”
she says. “Just like elipa used to make!”
A crowd stands outside a rundown
building. A grim quartet of halflings
wearing the insignia of the Ratcatcher’s
Guild head inside.

A half-chewed drumstick falls from an
passing skycoach, nearly hitting you in
the head.

A dragonmarked half-orc holds what
appears to be a dowsing rod, slowly
passing it over doors and passerby on
the street. The rod begins to shake
violently as you approach.

A human merchant argues with a giant
owl.

As you cross abridge, you notice a

pair of stonemasons studding a crack
running through the stone span.

Two people are arguing in front of a city
guard, and you hear accusations that
someone is a changeling.

A Karrnathi couple step off a lift, a large
map in their hands. They turn and
rotate the paper several times, trying to
make heads or tails of the directions.

160 CHAPTER 6 | THE STREETS OF SHARN
14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

A warforged waves at you from a dingy
cart piled high with a frightening array
of foods. “Hungry? | could use some
taste testers. As in, what does food
taste like?”

A scaled humanoid—one of the
lizardfolk or dragonborn of Q’barra—is
delighting onlookers with displays of
firebreathing.

You hear screaming above you. When
you look up, you see a well dressed
noble gently floating to the ground.

A young child sits crying on the stairs of
Tharashk inquisitive’s office. If you ask,
he sobs that they won’t help find his
dog.

You spot a moss covered warforged
sitting in a small park overlooking the
Dagger River. Birds are nesting in an
small, open compartment in the torso
of the warforged.

Two veteran soldiers—a Karrn and a
Thrane—are shouting at one another.
The Karrn draws a dagger.

The crowds part, making room for

a halfling warrior riding a snarling
clawfoot raptor.

Three children follow a warforged
juggernaut, giggling and throwing
garbage at it. The warforged stoically
ignores them.

A squad of the Sharn Watch pushes
past you, urging people to get out of
the way.

An Aereni stops you to ask for
directions to “Shae Lias.” She wears a
silver mask and a glamerweave robe,
and carries a sizeable purse.

A cheerful man sells a wide variety of
souvenirs to commemorate your visit
to Sharn: sketches, crystal globes, and
small plaster towers.

--- PAGE 161 ---

25

26

27

28

29

30

31

32

33

You pass by a shifter and a dwarf
merchant arguing with a member

of the Sharn Watch. Apparently, the
shifter believes he was charmed into
making a foolish purchase.

You come across a wall where people
have written the names of friends lost
during the Last War.

A halfling wearing the livery of House
Jorasco argues with a member of the
Sharn Watch, apparently trying to
absolve a friend of an accusation of
pickpocketing.

The smell of fresh, buttered bread
wafts through the middle of the
thoroughfare, but you cannot find the
source.

A street performer dressed as King
Boranel offers to knight tourists for a
copper piece.

A well-dressed human floats down from
a balcony above, his fall slowed by a
feather fall spell. He bids you, “good
day” and walks off quickly as you hear
guards shouting and pointing froma
bridge above.

A gargoyle swoops overhead, landing
on the street in front of you. It pulls

a piece of folded parchment out of a
leather satchel and heads into a nearby
shop.

A one-eyed half-elf opens up his cloak
to reveal a selection of wands carved
from different woods. “Eight galifars (8
gp) each! Top quality. And not stolen or
anything.”

A human fishmonger and a half-elf are
arguing about the Race of Eight Winds,
a local sporting event. The human
thinks that the Hawk can’t lose, while
the half-elf insists that this is the year
of the Owl.
34

35

36

37

38

39

40

Fresh graffiti proclaims “The crown dies
with Boranel!”

A well-dressed gnome offers to sell you
an invitation to the Tain Gala. “It’s the
grandest celebration in Sharn! I’m too
busy to go this month, but it’s a bargain
at 10 pieces of gold!”

A man in faded finery extols the virtues
of a miracle elixir to a small crowd. “It’s
the secret House Jorasco doesn’t want
you to know!”

With a loud cry and wildly pinwheeling
arms, a child plummets from a crowded
bridge above.

“They’re eroding our traditions! Don’t
let these thieves tell our king what

to do!” A young woman stands on a
corner shouting about the threat posed
by the dragonmarked houses.

A panicked gnome runs out of an
oracle’s tent. “We’re doomed!
Dooooomed!

A man begs for coins outside a Jorasco
house of healing. “One galifar, please!
| know it’s a lot, but if | can’t raise the
money today, she’ll die!”

CHAPTER 6 | THE STREETS OF SHARN

161

--- PAGE 162 ---

162

UPPER SHARN STREETS

2d20
2

10

Streets of Upper Sharn

You're nearly run down by a gilded
carriage, pulled by a team of warforged
gilded in the same patterns.

A magewright offers to use a simple
charm to polish the coins in your purse
for just 3 crowns (3 cp). “We wouldn’t
want anyone to get grime on their
gloves from handling filthy coins from
the lower wards.”

An illusion of a warforged butler
appears as you pass by the sealed
gates of a mansion. “I’m afraid my
mistress isn’t receiving guests today.”
A dragonmarked halfling offers a
cleansing enchantment for 5 crowns
(5 cp). “Gets rid of the dirt, brightens
your brights, puts a little bounce back
in your hair! Just the thing to make a
good impression.”

“Make way! Make way!” A young boy
clears a path for a jewel-encrusted
warforged wearing a lovely fur cloak.
A flustered gnome carrying stacks

of paper and parchments taller than
himself. He is oblivious to the trail

of smoke coming from inside a tall,
rolled-up scroll on his back.

Two nobles are locked in a bitter
argument. They’re wearing similar
cloaks—glamerweave garments
imbued with the illusion of shifting
clouds—and this seems to be the
problem.

A regal woman with auburn hair held
back ina silver diadem waits for a
skycoach. She holds a darkwood staff
encrusted with dragonshards, and she
taps it impatiently.

A gray-bearded sage argues witha
pale tiefling, whose horns appear to
be carved from ice. They seem to be
debating the dangerous effects of
Risian planar influence.

CHAPTER 6 | THESTREETS OF SHARN
11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

A Morgrave professor leads a pack of
chattering students on an expedition.
From their spelunking gear, you
imagine they’re heading down into the
Cogs.

As you pass by a fancy inn, a nobleman
hands you a copper piece and the reins
of his griffon. “Do take care now, she
bites.”

A tour group pauses to marvel at the
gates of a mansion. Apparently, it’s

the home of one of the divas of Upper
Menthis.

Anenchanted mirror allows you to
view the streets below you, to see how
the less fortunate live.

A kalashtar storyteller shares a tale of
life in Sarlona and the endless struggle
between the peaceful monks of Adar
and the cruel soldiers of the Inspired.
A half-elf wearing ajeweled eyepatch
offers a fine spellbook for just forty
galifars (40 gp). “Really interesting
stuff! And not stolen or anything.”

You come upon a gilded statue of
Queen Wroaan, the queen who

led Breland into the Last War (“and
freedom!” the plaque proclaims).

A warforged with roses twined around
her limbs offers to sell you a bouquet
for five sovereigns (5 sp).

A string quartet gives an impromptu
performance—publicity for the new
season of the Kavarrah Concert Hall.
A dragonmarked elf dazzles passerby
with a illusionary tableau of two
dueling dragons.

A mansion has a few gargoyles sitting
on its walls. They’re probably there
as security, but they offer lively
commentary about everyone who
passes by.

--- PAGE 163 ---

22

23

24

25

26

27

28

29

30

31

32

33

A street performer is drawing patterns
on the ground in chalk. As each picture
is completed, it starts to move.
Someone’s painted the crown dies
with Boranel across the gates of a
noble’s mansion. A member of the
Sharn Watch is talking to the servants.

A girl wearing the colors of House
Vadalis chases her miniature chimera.

A team of handlers from House Vadalis
walk alongside a small gelatinous cube.
“We’re trying it out, seeing if it can
keep things clean,” they say.

It starts to drizzle. A well-dressed
half-elf glares at the sky and snaps

his figures, and the rain immediately
stops.

A vendor offers a selection of mouth-
watering Aundairian entrees from a
floating cart—only 8 sovereigns (8 sp)
for a magical meal!

A member of the Sharn Watch stops
you. “Can | help you? Are you sure
you’re in the right ward?”

You pass the open doors of a smithy.
Inside, a number of hard-working tools
are moving and floating independently.
A nearby smith waves a wand as if
conducting an orchestra.

A priest explains how the best way to
earn the blessings of Kol Korran is to
donate. “For each coin you give, you'll
surely get a hundred in return!”

You come upon a fountain of cold

fire. In the center, a brass dragon spits
brilliant flames into the air, and the
spill down and out into the pool below.
A trio of elves perform perform a
remarkable display of athletics and
illusion magic, advanced publicity for
the Carnival of Shadows.

A lovely mosaic displays the seal of the
united Galifar.
34

35

36

37

38

39

40

A large statue commemorates Lord
Dalian ir’ Tain II, a noble philanthropist
lost at sea. He holds a spyglass in one
hand and a dragon turtle in the other.
You pass by a Hope Well. Supposedly,
any coins you throw in the well are
transported down to help the troubled
people of the lower wards.

A half-elf noblewoman strides by
wearing a fancy red dress and carrying
a matching parasol. Both the dress and
umbrella are decorated with Siberys
dragonshards.

You come upon a beautiful garden

at the edge of a tower. An elf in fine
mourning clothes looks out over the
edge.

A gnome in nautical outfit offers tickets
for a ‘celebrity skycoach tour’ for just 5
galifars (5 g) a head.

You spot a unit of the Redcloak
Battalion, the elite soldiers of the
Sharn Watch. They’re talking to the
owner of a local tavern.

A half-elven poet loudly recites
a lengthy poem about the tragic
destruction of Cyre.

CHAPTER 6 | THE STREETS OF SHARN

163

--- PAGE 164 ---

APPENDIX A: FURTHER REA

After reading this Wayfinder’s Guide, you may

have questions. What’s the Aurum? Who are
the Daughters of Sora Kell? Just how many
districts are there in Sharn, and what happens

to adventurers in the Mournland? What’s in
Xen’drik? Until new material becomes available
for the fifth edition of the DUNGEONs & DraGons
Roleplaying Game, you can find the answers to
these questions and many more in the resources
created in previous editions of the game.

EBERRON SOURCEBOOKS

These resources are currently available as ebooks
via the Dungeon Master’s Guild at:

DMsGuild.com

The Eberron Campaign Setting and Eberron Campaign
Guide both provide an overview of the world,
including advice on creating adventures and

a deeper look at the nations of Khorvaire and
the lands beyond it. Either of these books can
be useful for a Dungeon Master who wants
further insight into the setting. The other books
are largely tied to specific subjects. If you want
to run a campaign in the mysterious lands of
Xen’drik, Secrets of Xen’dnk and City of Stormreach
have a lot to offer. If you’re going to stay home,
Five Nations reveals more information about

the nations at the heart of Khorvaire, while
Dragonmarked expands on the dynasties that
dominate the magical economy.

All of these books were written for the revised
third edition (3.5E) or the fourth edition (4E) of
the Dungeons & Dragons Roleplaying Game.
The setting material in these books is suitable to
any Eberron campaign but the monsters, spells,
classes, feats, or other game material in these
books require adaptation for use in modern
campaigns.

City of Stormreach (3.5E): Stormreach is an

adventurer’s first stop when exploring the distant
land of Xen’drik. This book describes the shadowy

164 APPENDIX | FURTHER READING
DING

ruins, sinister organizations, and treasure-laden
dungeons of Stormreach. In addition to providing
Dungeon Masters with a richly detailed city for
their Xen’drik based campaigns, this supplement
presents information on the movers and shakers of
Stormreach, ready-to-use adversaries, adventure
hooks, and location maps.

Dragons of Eberron (3.5E): This supplement
delves into the mysterious Draconic Prophecy.

It explores the continent of Argonnessen,
homeland of the dragons, and describes various
new adventure sites. This book also investigates
dragons on the continents of Khorvaire, Sarlona,
and Xen’Drik.

Dragonmarked (3.5E): This supplement
explores each of the thirteen dragonmarked
houses in detail and presents advice for playing
dragonmarked characters within a house or guild.
It also introduces new options for dragonmarked
characters, including prestige classes, feats, and
spells. Finally, it discusses aberrant dragonmarks
and their role in a campaign.

Eberron Campaign Guide (4E): Designed for
the fourth edition of the DUNGEONS & DRAGONS
Roleplaying Game, this book presents a historical
and geographical overview of the setting;
information on key locations, personalities, and
organizations; an introductory adventure; and a
bestiary of monsters and villains.

Eberron Campaign Setting (3.5E): The
first sourcebook for the setting, this provides a
general overview of the world. This includes the
artificer class and statistics for monsters unique
to Eberron (deathless, daelkyr, quori), along with
a host of spells, feats, prestige classes, and other
game material.

Eberron Player’s Guide (4E): This book
presents Eberron from the point of view of the
adventurer exploring it. This includes everything
a player needs to create Eberron characters in
the fourth edition of the DuNcEons & DRAGONS
Roleplaying Game.

Explorer’s Handbook (3.5E): This book
gives players everything they need to explore a

--- PAGE 165 ---

variety of sites across Eberron, including modes
of travel, exploring tips, and rules for joining
organizations such as the prestigious Wayfinder
Foundation. For DMs, the book describes
several likely “launching pads” and destinations,
complete with maps, ready-to-play encounters,
and pregenerated NPCs.

Faiths of Eberron (3.5E): This supplement
presents detailed descriptions of the major
religions of Eberron, including the rival
pantheons of the Sovereign Host and the Dark
Six, the young faith of the Silver Flame, and the
mysterious Blood of Vol.

Five Nations (3.5E): This provides
comprehensive overviews of Aundair, Breland,
Karrnath, Thrane, and the Mournland,
including postwar status, government, and
economy, as well as important locations,
communities, organizations, and NPCs.

Forge of War (3.5E): This comprehensive
overview of the Last War provides all you need to
know about the events, armies, battlefields, and
themes of Eberron’s greatest clash of nations.

Magic of Eberron (3.5E): In addition to
presenting new arcane and divine spells, feats,
prestige classes, and magic items, this book offers
new options and infusions for artificers, explores
dragon totem magic and the twisted experiments
of the daelkyr, sheds light on the process of
elemental binding, and touches on other types of
magic present in the world.

Player’s Guide to Eberron (3.5E): An
overview of important locations, events,
organizations, races, and features of the Eberron
campaign setting, this gives a sense of what a
player character might know about the world,
while providing additional character options.

Races of Eberron (3.5E): This sourcebook
delves deeply into changelings, kalashtar, shifters,
and warforged. It provides detailed information
on the psychology, society, culture, behavior,
religion, folklore, and other aspects of these races,
as well as exploring the role of other core D&D
races in the setting.

Secrets of Sarlona (3.5E): This sourcebook
explores the continent of Sarlona, home to the
kalashtar and the villainous Inspired. It explores
the mountain refuge of Adar, the vast empire of
Riedra, and the mysterious lands of Syrkarn and
the Tashana Tundra.

Secrets of Xen’drik (3.5E): This book
delves into the mysteries of Xen’drik, including
encounters, exotic locations, and new monsters,
magic items, and more.

Sharn: City of Towers (3.5E): This book
provides an in-depth exploration of the City of
Towers. In addition to describing more than
100 city districts, it delves into the organizations
that are active in Sharn and explores the laws
enforced in the city... and the many forces
that break them. It includes maps of Sharn and
locations within it, along with NPCs, spells,
prestige classes, magic items, and more.

EBERRON NOVELS

There are dozens of novels that explore the world
of Eberron. Here are a few that are currently
available as ebooks or audiobooks:

The Draconic Prophecy trilogy by James
Wyatt: Storm Dragon, Dragon Forge, Dragon War. A
half-elf seer with the Mark of Storms discovers
his role in the mysterious Draconic Prophecy—a
destiny that will take him from the dungeons of
Dreadhold to Aundair and Argonnessen.

The Dragon Below trilogy by Don
Bassingthwaite: The Binding Stone, The Grieving
Tree, The Killing Song. Beginning in the gloom of
the Shadow Marches, this series draws in the
Gatekeeper druids, the daelkyr, the kalashtar,
and the Cults of the Dragon Below.

The Dreaming Dark trilogy by Keith
Baker: City of Towers, The Shattered Land, Gates
of Night. In the wake of the Mourning, a band
of Cyran soldiers travel to the city of Sharn.
Trouble in the City of Towers leads them to the
ruins of Xen’drik and the planes of Thelanis and
Dal Quor as they unravel the schemes of the
Dreaming Dark.

The Heirs of Ash trilogy by Rich Wulf:
Voyage of the Mourning Dawn, Flight of the Dying Sun,
Rise of the Seventh Moon. This series follows the
crew of an airship on a journey across Eberron in
pursuit of a mysterious superweapon.

APPENDIX | FURTHER READING 165

--- PAGE 166 ---

166

The Legacy of Dhakaan trilogy by Don
Bassingthwaite: The Doom of Kings, Word of
Traitors, The Tyranny of Ghosts. The shifter Geth is
drawn into the intrigues of the goblin nation of
Dhakaan, dealing with the precarious balance
between the Ghaal’dar, the Dhakaani, and the
elves of Valenar.

The Thorn of Breland trilogy by Keith
Baker: The Queen of Stone, The Son of Khyber,

The Fading Dream. A member of the elite Dark
Lanterns, Thorn clashes with House Tarkanan
in Sharn; pursues a dangerous mission in the
monstrous nation of Droaam; and follows a
mysterious lead deep into the Mournland.

Eberron: Inquisitives is a series of stand-
alone novels focusing on inquisitives—
Eberron’s answer to the private investigator.

APPENDIX | FURTHER READING
Bound By Iron by Edward Bolme follows a
mystery in the grim nation of Karrnath.

The Night of Long Shadows by Paul Crilley.
Inquisitive Abraxus Wren investigates a
murder at Morgrave University, uncovering
a mystery that reaches to the highest towers
of Sharn.

Legacy of Wolves by Marsheila Rockwell is
set in the nation of Thrane, and deals with
shifters and the dark history of the Church
of the Silver Flame.

The Darkwood Mask by Jeff LaSala explores
the politics of Breland and Karrnath
through the fallout of an ambassador’s
murder in the city of Korth.

--- PAGE 167 ---

APPENDIX B: GLOSSARY

Aberrant Dragonmark. A mark that
manifests on the skin and grants magical abilities
to the bearer. Aberrant dragonmarks are diverse
in their effects and appearance, but generally
grant destructive abilities. Superstition leads
many people to distrust those who carry aberrant
dragonmarks. Chapter 4.

Adept. A divine spellcaster who knows 1-4
cantrips or rituals. Chapter 2.

Aerenal. An island nation in Eberron.
Homeland of the elves and the Undying Court.
Chapter 2.

Arawai. The Sovereign of Life and Love. A
deity of the Sovereign Host often associated with
the Life and Nature domains. Chapter 2.

Arcanix. The finest institute for arcane
research in Khorvaire, located in the nation of
Aundair. Chapter 2.

Aundair. A nation in northwestern Khorvaire.
Known for education and arcane magic. One
of the Five Nations that formed the Kingdom of
Galifar. Chapter 2.

Aureon. The Sovereign of Law and Lore. A
deity of the Sovereign Host often associated with
the Knowledge and Order domains. Chapter 2.

Aurum. A powerful conspiracy operating in
Khorvaire. Chapter 1.

Balinor. The Sovereign of Horn and Hunt. A
deity of the Sovereign Host often associated with
the Nature domain. Chapter 2.

Blood of Vol. A grim religion that believes
that death is oblivion, but that mortals have a
spark of divinity in their blood. Associated with
the Life and Death domains. Chapter 2.

Boldrei. The Sovereign of Hall and Hearth. A
deity of the Sovereign Host often associated with
the Life and Protection domains. Chapter 2.

Boromar Clan. A powerful criminal
organization with deep roots in Sharn. Primarily
associated with theft, gambling, and smuggling.
Chapter 6.
Breland. A nation in southern Khorvaire.
Known for industry and pragmatism. One of
the Five Nations that formed the Kingdom of
Galifar. Chapter 2.

Callestan. A district in the Lower Dura ward
of Sharn. A dangerous and lawless region of the
City of Towers. Chapter 6.

Cannith. A dragonmarked house associated
with the Mark of Making. Chapter 4.

Changeling. A race of shapeshifters found in
Khorvaire. Chapter 3.

Clifftop. A district in the Upper Dura ward
of Sharn. Known as a reliable source of capable
adventurers. Chapter 6.

Crown. A copper coin with a value of | cp.
Chapter 2.

Cyre. One of the Five Nations that formed the
Kingdom of Galifar, Cyre was known for art and
artifice. Gyre was destroyed by the Mourning
and is now known as the Mournland. Chapter 2.

Daanvi. The plane of order. Chapter 2.

Daask. A criminal organization with ties to
the monstrous nation of Droaam. Primarily
associated with violent crime and extortion.
Chapter 6.

Dark Six. The sinister counterpart to the
Sovereign Host. The deities of the Dark Six
embody dangerous forces: death, darkness,
destruction, treachery, chaos, passion. Most
followers of the Sovereign Host view the Dark
Six as evil, but their followers believe that the
forces they represent are important aspects of life.
Chapter 2.

Daelkyr. Powerful fiends from the plane
of Madness. Daelkyr create aberrations and
brought mind flayers and beholders to Eberron.
The daelkyr are currently bound in Khyber by
seals created by the Gatekeeper druids. Chapter 1.

Dal Quor. The plane of dreams. Chapter 2.

Darguun. A nation in southeast Khorvaire.
Primarily populated by goblins who seized the
region from Cyre during the Last War. Chapter 2.

APPENDIX | GLOSSARY

167

--- PAGE 168 ---

168

Demon Wastes. A barren region in
northwestern Khorvaire. The Demon Wastes
are twisted by dark powers and home to a wide
variety of fiends. Chapter 2.

Deneith. A dragonmarked house associated
with the Mark of Sentinel. Chapter 3.

Devourer, the. A deity of the Dark Six, often
associated with the Tempest domain. Chapter 2.

Dhakaan. A goblin empire that existed
before humanity came to Khorvaire. Destroyed
thousands of years ago after fighting the daelkyr.
Chapter 3.

Dol Arrah. The Sovereign of Sun and
Sacrifice. A deity of the Sovereign Host often
associated with the Light and War domains.
Chapter 2.

Dol Dorn. The Sovereign of Strength and
Steel. A deity of the Sovereign Host, often
associated with strength, courage, and the War
domain. Chapter 2.

Dolurrh. The realm of the dead, where
mortal souls go after death. Many faiths believe
that Dolurrh is a gateway to a higher level of
existence. Chapter 2.

Draconic Prophecy. Signs of the Prophecy
manifest in the movement of the moons and
planes, in the manifestation of dragonmarks
and natural phenomena. The Prophecy doesn’t
define the future, but it reveals paths that it can
take. Chapter 1.

Dragonmark. A mark that manifests on
the skin and grants magical abilities to the
bearer. There are twelve known dragonmarks.
Dragonmarks are hereditary and tied to a specific
set of bloodlines. Chapter 4.

Dragonmarked Houses. An alliance of
families that carry a particular dragonmark;
House Cannith carries the Mark of Making,
House Sivis holds the Mark of Scribing. Each
dragonmarked house has used the power of its
marks to gain influence over a particular element
of the magical economy of Khorvaire. Chapter 4.

Dragonshard. A form of crystal with mystical
properties. Eberron dragonshards are found in
upper earth and are the primary fuel of the
magical economy. Khyber dragonshards are found

APPENDIX | GLOSSARY
deep below the surface and used with binding
enchantments. Szberys dragonshards fall from the sky
and amplify magical energies. Chapter 5.

Droaam. A nation in western Khorvaire.
Droaam was formed ten years ago and isn’t
recognized under the Treaty of Thronehold.

Its inhabitants are largely creatures considered
to be “monsters”: ogres, trolls, gnolls, harpies,
medusas, and similar creatures. Chapter 2.

Dreaming Dark. An alliance of fiends said to
be manipulating mortal dreams. Chapter 1.

Eberron. |. One of the legendary Progenitor
Dragons, said to be the source of natural life and
druidic magic. 2. The natural world. Chapter 1.

Eldeen Reaches. A nation in western
Aundair, formed by an alliance between the
druids of the western woods and farmers who
broke away from Aundair. Chapter 2.

Emerald Claw. The Order of the Emerald
Claw is a group of Karrnathi patriots who serve a
mysterious figure known as the Queen of Death.
Many follow the Blood of Vol faith, but most
followers of the Blood of Vol don’t support the
Emerald Claw. Chapter 1.

Excoriate. A dragonmarked heir who’s been
cut off from their house, usually due to a crime
against the house. Chapter 4.

Everice. An arctic continent in Eberron.
Chapter 2.

Fernia. The plane of fire. Chapter 2.

Five Nations. Aundair, Breland, Cyre,
Karrnath, and Thrane. These five nations served
as the foundation of the Kingdom of Galifar and
were the primary combatants in the Last War.
Chapter 2.

Forgehold. A Cannith workshop focusing on
arcane production or innovation. Chapter 4.

Foundling. Someone who develops a
dragonmark without having any established ties
to one of the dragonmarked houses. Chapter 4.

Frostfell. An arctic continent in Eberron.
Chapter 2.

Fury, the. A deity of the Dark Six, associated
with passion, madness, and vengeance. Chapter 2.

Galifar. A human civilization that once
dominated the continent of Khorvaire, named

--- PAGE 169 ---

after the king who established it. Galifar came
to an end when the Five Nations turned on one
another, triggeering the Last War. Chapter 2.

Ghaal’dar. The alliance of goblin clans that
established and currently rule the nation of
Darguun. Chapter 3.

Ghallanda. A dragonmarked house associated
with the Mark of Hospitality. Chapter 4.

Greater Dragonmark. A dragonmark that
has grown in size and grants greater powers to
the character that possesses it. Chapter 4.

Irian. The plane of light and hope. The source
of positive energy in Eberron. Chapter 2.

Jorasco. A dragonmarked house associated
with the Mark of Healing. Chapter 4.

Kalashtar. A hybrid race formed by a bond
between humans and renegade spirits from the
plane of dreams. Primarily found in the nation of
Adar in Sarlona. Chapter 3.

Karrnath. A nation in northeastern
Khorvaire. Known for stoicism and martial
discipline. One of the Five Nations that formed
the Kingdom of Galifar. Chapter 2.

Keeper, the. A deity of the Dark Six, often
associated with the Death and Grave domains.
Chapter 2.

Khoravar. The half-elves of Khorvaire use
this term—Elvish for “child of Khorvaire”—as
the name of their race. Chapter 3.

Khorvaire. A continent in Eberron. Home of
the Thronehold nations. Chapter 2.

Khyber. |. One of the legendary Progenitor
Dragons, said to be the source of fiends and other
evil creatures. 2. The Underdark of Eberron.
Chapter 1.

Kol Korran. The Sovereign of World and
Wealth. A deity of the Sovereign Host associated
with trade and travel. Chapter 2.

Kundarak. A dragonmarked house associated
with the Mark of Warding. Chapter 4.

Kythri. The plane of chaos. Chapter 2.

Lamannia. The plane of nature. Chapter 2.

Last War. A conflict fought to determine
which of the Five Nations would rule Galifar.
The Last War began in 894 YK. The Last War
officially ended in 996 YK with the signing of the
Treaty of Thronehold. Chapter 1.
Lhazaar Principalities. An alliance of
city-states in northeastern Khorvaire. Known for
ships and sailors, and for both merchants and
pirates. Chapter 2.

Library of Korranberg. Located in Zilargo,
the Library of Korranberg is widely considered
to be the most extensive collection of literature
and general knowledge in Khorvaire. Chapter 2.

Lyrandar. A dragonmarked house associated
with the Mark of Storms. Chapter 4.

Mabar. The plane of darkness and entropy.
The source of negative energy in Eberron. Serves
the role of the Shadowfell in Eberron. Chapter 2.

Magewright. Someone who uses arcane
magic as part of their occupation. A typical
magewright knows | to 4 practical cantrips or
rituals. Chapter 2.

Manifest Zone. A region where one of
the planes influences Eberron. A manifest
zone usually displays traits associated with the
connected plane, and it can serve as a portal to
that plane.

Medani. A dragonmarked house associated
with the Mark of Detection. Chapter 4.

Mockery, the. A deity of the Dark Six, often
associated with the Trickery and War domains.
Chapter 2.

Morgrave University. Located in the Upper
Menthis Plateau ward of Sharn, Morgrave
University is the largest institute of learning in
Breland. Chapter 6.

Mournland. Formerly the nation of Cyre, the
Mournland is an unnatural wasteland created
by the Mourning. It is home to many dangerous
creatures and unpredictable magical effects.
Chapter 1.

Mourning. The mystical cataclysm that
destroyed the nation of Cyre and transformed
it into the Mournland. The Mourning took
place on 20 Olarune 994 YK. The cause of the
Mourning remains a mystery. Chapter 1.

Mror Holds. A mountainous nation in
eastern Khorvaire. Primarily inhabited by
dwarves. Known for its mines and mineral

wealth. Chapter 2.

APPENDIX | GLOSSARY

169

--- PAGE 170 ---

170

Olladra. The Sovereign of Feast and Fortune.
A deity of the Sovereign Host often associated
with the Life and Trickery domains. Chapter 2.

Onatar. The Sovereign of Fire and Forge. A
deity of the Sovereign Host often associated with
the Forge and Knowledge domains. Chapter 2.

Q’barra. A nation in eastern Khorvaire.
Home to lizardfolk and dragonborn, it was
colonized by settlers from the Five Nations
during the Last War. Chapter 2.

Orien. A dragonmarked house associated with
the Mark of Passage. Chapter 4.

Path of Light. A kalashtar religion that seeks
to guide Eberron through an age of darkness
and into light. Often associated with the Life and
Light domains. Chapter 2.

Phiarlan. A dragonmarked house associated
with the Mark of Shadows. Chapter 4.

Risia. The plane of ice. Chapter 2.

Sarlona. A continent in Eberron. Home of
humanity and the kalashtar. Dominated by the
Inspired lords of Riedra. There is limited contact
between Khorvaire and Sarlona. Chapter 2.

Shadow, the. A deity of the Dark Six, often
associated with the Knowledge domain. Chapter 2.

Shadow Marches. A region of swamps in
southwestern Khorvaire. Primarily inhabited by
orcs, humans, and half-orcs. Chapter 2.

Shifter. A race thought to have ties to
lycanthropes, primarily found in the Eldeen
Reaches. Chapter 3.

Siberys. |. One of the legendary Progenitor
Dragons, thought to be the source of celestials
and magic. 2. The ring of dragonshards that
circles the world. Chapter 1.

Silver Flame. A source of divine energy, the
Silver Flame binds fiends and empowers those
who fight evil. Often associated with the Life,
Light, and War domains. Chapter 2.

Sivis. A dragonmarked house associated with
the Mark of Scribing. Chapter 4.

Skycoach. A small flying vessel found in the
city of Sharn. Skycoaches are sustained by the
manifest zone around Sharn and can’t be used
elsewhere in Khorvaire. Chapter 6.

Sovereign. |. One of the deities of the
Sovereign Host; occasionally used to describe

APPENDIX | GLOSSARY
the Dark Six. 2. A coin with a value of one silver
piece (1 sp). Chapter 2.

Sovereign Host. The most widespread
religion in Khorvaire. The Host is a pantheon of
nine deities. Followers believe the Sovereigns are
omnipresent, guiding and influencing all things.
Most people worship the pantheon as a whole,
but there are variations that focus on subsets of
the host. Chapter 2.

Stormreach. The largest human colony in
Xen’drik. Chapter 2.

Syrania. The plane of peace. Known for its
floating citadels. Chapter 2.

Talenta Plains. A nation in eastern
Khorvaire. Primarily inhabited by halflings.
Chapter 2.

Tarkanan. House Tarkanan is a criminal
organization primarily associated with theft
and assassination. Members have aberrant
dragonmarks. Chapter 6.

Tharashk. A dragonmarked house associated
with the Mark of Finding. Chapter 4.

Thelanis. The Faerie Court. This plane serves
the role of the Feywild in Eberron. Chapter 2.

Thrane. A nation in central Khorvaire.
Known for devotion and the Church of the Silver
Flame. One of the Five Nations that formed the
Kingdom of Galifar. Chapter 2.

Thronehold. ‘This island city was the former
capital of Galifar. The treaty that officially ended
the Last War was negotiated and signed here.

Thronehold Nation. A nation in Khorvaire
recognized by the Treaty of Thronehold
and bound by the terms of the treaty. The
Thronehold nations are Aundair, Breland,
Darguun, the Eldeen Reaches, Karrnath, the
Lhazaar Principalities, the Mror Holds, Q’barra,
the Talenta Plains, Thrane, Valenar, and
Zilargo. Chapter 1.

Thuranni. A dragonmarked house associated
with the Mark of Shadow. Chapter 4.

Traveler, the. A deity of the Dark Six, often
associated with the Forge and Trickery domains.
Chapter 2.

Treaty of Thronehold. The agreement that
brought the Last War to an end. Chapter 1.

--- PAGE 171 ---

Tyrants, the. A criminal organization
primarily comprised of changelings and
doppelgangers. Associated with forgery,
blackmail, and fraud. Chapter 6.

Twelve. An organization that facilitates
communication and cooperation between the
Dragonmarked Houses. Chapter 4.

Undying Court. The council of deathless
elves that guides and protects the elves of
Aerenal. As a source of divine power, often
associated with the Grave, Knowledge, and Light
domains. Chapter 2.

Valenar. |. A nation in southeastern
Khorvaire. Established by elf mercenaries who
seized the territory from Cyre. 2. One of the elves
who seized this region. Valenar elves known for
their devotion to the arts of war. Chapter 2.

Wandslinger. Someone who uses an arcane
focus as a primary weapon. NPC wandslingers
typically know 2 cantrips, and up to three
additional cantrips or spells. Chapter 2.
Warforged. A race of sentient golems created
by House Cannith during the Last War. The
Treaty of Thronehold granted freedom to
the warforged and forbid the creation of new
warforged. Chapter 3.

Xoriat. The plane of madness. Chapter 2.

YK. “Year of the Kingdom.” A calendar
abbreviation used to mark the foundation of
the Kingdom of Galifar. By default, an Eberron
campaign begins in 998 YK. Chapter 2.

Xen’drik. A continent in Eberron. Once
home to an empire of giants, it’s now a nation of
ruins and mysteries. Chapter 2.

Zilargo. A nation in the southern Khorvaire.
Primarily populated by gnomes. Known for
elemental binding and the pursuit of knowledge.
Chapter 2.

APPENDIX | GLOSSARY

171

--- PAGE 172 ---

172

APPENDIX C: DRAGONMARK

APPENDIX | DRAGONMARKED HOUSE CRESTS
ED HOUSE CRESTS

--- PAGE 173 ---

APPENDIX | DRAGONMARKED HOUSE CRESTS

173

--- PAGE 174 ---

SLNINLLNO} owr
SVIS su140 dU
JIVANIIY ow ING] v
SINISTUd SIAIS ISNOH

eeNouuaiaiay
EEE. fe EN Shee = Se eee es ee “lis Fett ceil Fh ee ee =

sy Wy SO 1 {oO Bos

280Y JO BAS

NISSINNODYY,

= EDICENEL
Pas YEG]

MlYO:NIX

Rag a | UY |

TUNIddV

--- PAGE 175 ---

oA JUIN VAUC HY
RR a eee a Be eee fal ee Le ek 2

Pee ,
Jul

SNIV Id

PLN “ \
} : WYMUT
‘ Be i iN VOL

--- PAGE 176 ---

(blank page)