--- PAGE 1 ---
Seven linked, ready to play adventures for the world’s greatest fantasy setting.
TM
TM

--- PAGE 2 ---
Written by: Gareth Ryder-Hanrahan, Francesco Nepitello, Jon Hodgson, and Steve Emmott
Development by: Jon Hodgson, Jacob Rogers and David Rea
Creative Direction by: Jon Hodgson
Art by: Jon Hodgson and Tomasz Jedrusek
Edited by: Francesco Nepitello and Dominic McDowall-Thomas
Graphic Design and  Layout: Paul Bourne
Maps by Paul Bourne
Proofreading: Amado Angulo, David Rea, Jacob Rodgers, Luke Walker
Based on The One Ring Roleplaying Game by Francesco Nepitello and Marco Maggi
© Sophisticated Games Ltd 2017  © Cubicle 7 Entertainment Ltd 2017 
To find out more about Adventures in Middle-earth, and 
to subscribe to our newsletter, please go to: www.cubicle7.co.uk
Product Identity: The following items are hereby identified as Product Identity, as defined in the Open Game License version 1.0a, Section 1(e), and are not Open Content:
All trademarks, registered trade-marks, proper names (characters, place names, etc.), new rules, classes, items, virtues, backgrounds, places, characters, artwork, 
sidebars, and trade dress. Open Game Content: The Open content in this book includes material taken from the Systems Reference Document. No other portion of this 
work may be reproduced in any form without permission.
Published by Sophisticated Games Ltd, 3 Andersen Court, Newnham Road, Cambridge CB3 9EZ, UK and 
Cubicle 7 Entertainment Ltd,  Suite D3, Unit 4, Gemini House, Hargreaves Road, Groundwell Industrial Estate, 
Swindon, SN25 5AZ, UK
 
 
The One Ring, Middle-earth, The Hobbit, The Lord of the Rings, and the characters, items, events and places therein are trademarks or registered trademarks of The 
Saul Zaentz Company d/b/a Middle-earth Enterprises and are used under license by Sophisticated Games Ltd and their respective licensees. All rights reserved. No 
part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording 
or otherwise, without the prior permission of the publishers. 
- credits -

--- PAGE 3 ---
Introduction	
4
How to Use this Guide	
6
Level Range	
6
The Passing of Years	
6
Don’t Leave the Path	
7
Adventuring Phase	
7
Part One – Where Rivers Run With Gold	
7
Part Two – The Edge of the 
Woodland Realm	
10
Part Three – The Long Road	
11
Part Four – Castle of the Spiders	
12
Part Five – The Hermit	
15
Part Six – The Well in the Wood	
17
Epilogue – The Forest Gate	
19
Of Leaves & Stewed Hobbit	
20
Adventuring Phase	
20
Part One – The Easterly Inn	
20
Part Two – Searching the High Pass	
25
Part Three – Battle at the Ringfort	
27
Part Four – Into The Mountains	
31
Part 5 – Prisoner of the Goblins	
33
Epilogue – Back To The Inn	
36
Kinstrife & Dark Tidings	
37
Adventuring Phase	
37
Part One – A Funeral Boat	
38
Part Two – Beorn’s Hall	
39
Part Three – The Chase	
43
Part Four – Kinstrife	
44
Part Five – The Chase Continued	
48
Part Six – Cruel, Ill-Favoured men	
49
Part Seven – The Outlaw Boy	
52
Part Eight – Grim Tidings	
55
Part Nine – Judgement at the Carrock	
57
Aftermath	
58
Those Who Tarry No Longer	 59
Adventuring Phase	
59
Part One – The Borders of the Forest	
60
Part Two – Weary of the World	
62
Part Three – The Hill of Woe	
64
Part Four – A Guest of Eagles	
66
Part Five – The Ruins	
67
Part Six – Dark Dreams	
72
Part Seven – Dawn in the West	
75
The Journey Home	
76
A Darkness in the Marshes	
77
Adventuring Phase	
77
Part One – Wizard’s Counsel	
78
Part Two – Across the River	
80
Part Three – The Harrowed Hall	
82
Part Four – The Passage of the Marshes	
87
Part Five – Slave & Hunters	
89
Part Six – By Secret Ways	
90
Part Seven – Fly, You Fools!	
95
Epilogue – The Shadow of the Future	
98
The Crossings of Celduin	
99
Adventuring Phase	
99
Part One – The Gathering of Five Armies	
99
Part Two – A Golden Prize	
104
Part Three – An Ill-Made Party	
108
Part Four – Raven’s Tidings	
110
Part Five – The Journey South	
113
Part Six – The Calm Before The Storm	
115
Part Seven – The Battle Begins	
118
Part Eight – The Last Day	
120
Aftermath	
124
The Watch on the Heath	
125
Adventuring Phase	
125
Part One – Council Under The Mountain	
125
Part Two – Across the Trackless Waste	
129
Part Three – The Grey Mountains	
132
Part Four – Zirakinbar	
133
Part Five – The Scourge of the North	
134
Part Six – The Watchtower	
137
Epilogue – A Renewed Spring of Joy	
142
Appendix	
143
Introduction to the Journey Rules	
143
Journey Event Tables	
144
Index	
157
- contents -

--- PAGE 4 ---
Wilderland Adventures
4
- Introduction -
This guide contains seven ready-to-play adventures for 
your company of heroes, complete scenarios that can 
be played separately, or as a mini campaign spanning 
across a number of years. All adventures are set in the 
years after 2946, and take place in Wilderland. A wealth 
of background material expands the setting information 
contained in Adventures in Middle-earth, and will prove 
useful to Loremasters and players alike, even after all the 
adventures have been played through.
The first adventure takes the companions from Lake-town 
across the breadth of Mirkwood, while the following four 
are set west of the forest. The last two take place in Dale 
and the northern regions beyond the Lonely Mountain. 
The adventures are presented in order of increasing 
difficulty: while the first four adventures can be tackled by 
a group of relatively inexperienced adventurers, the last 
three offer a greater challenge. A suggested level range is 
given for each adventure. These suggestions are based on 
a company with four members of varied skills. The seven 
adventures are:
Don’t Leave the Path (Levels 1 or 2)
The companions find adventure outside Lake-town and 
are given the chance to discover why even the hardiest of 
adventurers shun the forest of Mirkwood and its depths. In 
the process, they go and see Elves, meet a crazed hermit, 
and stumble into a wood of ancient and angry trees.
Of Leaves & Stewed Hobbit (Levels 2 or 3)
The company discovers the Easterly Inn, a piece of the 
Shire in the land of the Beornings. But the Wild is still 
the Wild, and it takes more than Hobbit cooking to keep 
adventures at bay; in no time, the companions find 
themselves involved in the search for a missing trade 
caravan. Their quest will put them on the road to the High 
Pass, and see them go over hills and under hills.
Kinstrife and Dark Tidings (Levels 3 or 4)
A sorrowful discovery along the banks of the Anduin 
brings the characters to Beorn’s Hall. A terrible crime 
has been committed, but the culprit has now escaped 
his captors and fled into the Wild. Beorn charges the 
adventurers with finding the lawbreaker and bringing 
him to judgement – but as the company searches for their 
quarry, they learn that right and wrong are not always as 
clear-cut as one might hope.
Those Who Tarry No Longer (Levels 3 or 4)
The company is honoured beyond measure when asked 
to escort an Elf-woman across Wilderland to the High 
Pass. Irimë of the House of Gil-Galad is heading West, to 
leave the shores of Middle-earth. But the passing of such 
a bright light under the shadow of the mountains doesn’t 
go unnoticed, and the company is waylaid by an evil 
spirit. This powerful shade tries to wield Irimë’s sorrow 
as a weapon against her. If the adventurers cannot restore 
her hope, then the spirit will devour a light that has shone 
since the First Age!

--- PAGE 5 ---
5
Introduction
A Darkness in the Marshes (Levels 4 or 5)
Troubled by recent news, Radagast the Brown sends the 
company west across the Great River, to seek the counsel 
of the Woodmen of Mountain Hall. There, they receive 
tidings that lead them south, into the Gladden Fields. 
Eventually, they find and explore the Dwimmerhorn, 
a dark fastness where a dark plot is hatching. This is a 
danger beyond the company’s ability to defeat alone, and 
they flee. But in their attempt to return to Woodland Hall, 
they risk bringing a great evil with them.
The Crossings of Celduin (Levels 5 or 6)
Black treachery shakes the great festivities held in Dale 
for the Gathering of Five Armies! Warriors are poisoned, 
and the next day brings news of an army approaching 
from the south. With many of his soldiers sickened by 
the poison, King Bard turns to the adventurers and sends 
them to hold the Crossings of the River Running for as long 
as they can. If the Enemy host crosses the bridge too soon, 
then Dale will burn.
The Watch on the Heath (Levels 6 or Higher)
The Battle at Celduin didn’t end the threat to the North. 
The army menacing Dale was but one of the many threads 
woven into a foul scheme. As the Free Folk of the North are 
enjoying a respite, the plot is secretly coming to fruition 
among the dreary peaks of the Grey Mountains: an 
ancient and unstoppable enemy is being summoned out 
of the frozen wastes. Luckily, not everyone is fooled, and 
the company is sent to the north by the King under the 
Mountain, to investigate the suspicious theft of records 
held in the Chamber of Mazarbul under Erebor. Will the 
adventurers learn about the impending threat in time and 
find a way to prevent it before it is too late?
The Gibbet King
The main villain of adventures 4 to 7 is an evil spirit 
whose true name is lost and forgotten. Called the 
Gibbet King by his servants, he is a wraith-creature, 
felt by mortals only as a passing shadow, a whisper on 
the wind. He served for centuries as the torturer and 
jailer of the Necromancer of Dol Guldur, bound to its 
pits by the will of his Master.
When the Necromancer left his fortress in Mirkwood, 
he forsook his many servants and slaves - the Gibbet 
King among them. The spirit hid in the deepest 
recesses of the stronghold, and escaped notice. When 
he finally left Dol Guldur, he was no more than a 
shapeless spectre of hate and malice. In time, he learnt 
to use sorcery to take possession of dead bodies and 
thus interact with the physical world. 
Today, the Gibbet King hates Sauron as much as he 
hates all living things, but in his wickedness he is bound 
to seek similar ends.

--- PAGE 6 ---
Wilderland Adventures
6
How to Use this Guide
Most of the adventures presented in this guide are self-
contained, and can be played as single quests without 
reference to any past or future adventure. You can pick 
the most appropriate adventures to run based on the 
composition of your players’ company and their journeys 
across the Wild. 
Don’t Leave the Path, Of Leaves & Stewed Hobbit, 
Kinstrife & Grim Tidings and Those Who Tarry No Longer 
have no direct links to the other adventures, save whispers 
of the Gibbet King’s influence. A Darkness in the Marshes, 
The Crossings of Celduin and The Watch on the Heath are 
all interlinked, but a Loremaster can pick the connections 
apart easily. (For example, instead of the Gibbet King at 
the head of the army that attacks Dale in The Crossings of 
Celduin, make the villain an Orc-chieftain or an Easterling 
warlord). A Darkness in the Marshes and The Watch on 
the Heath are more closely linked still. Alternatively, you 
can combine all seven adventures into a short campaign. 
The adventures should be played in the order they are 
presented in this guide. 
Experience Awards
Throughout this volume you’ll see symbols in the margin. 
These indicate a chance for the Loremaster to award 
Experience Points for overcoming challenges. These 
opportunities are optional, to be made at the Loremaster’s 
discretion and in accordance with the method of levelling 
they have chosen. They might form a direct, numerical 
award, or a silently observed instance that counts towards 
gaining a whole level if enough are checked off.
 
Every game will vary, but these Experience Awards have 
been calculated to offer a good chance for a typical 
company to level up in accordance with the pace we 
suggest for this campaign. 
 
Wilderland Adventures makes use of the Experience 
Rewards by Challenge table for non-combat encounters. 
Just as a combat encounter should be scaled to reflect 
the size of your company, so too should these Awards be 
scaled to match your group of adventurers.
The symbols [in red] represent an individual achievement. 
Those [in green] are intended to be divided amongst the 
party.
Experience derived from battle is calculated according to 
the core rules – for the sake of simplicity and consistency 
there is no change there.
 
	
Challenge	
XP 	
Challenge	
XP
	
1/8	
25	
3	
700
	
1/4	
50	
4	
1,100
	
1/2	
100	
5	
1,800
	
1	
200	
6	
2,300
	
2	
450
 
The Passing of Years
If you want to follow the default pacing of gameplay 
suggested in Adventures in Middle-earth, playing all 
the adventures contained in Wilderland Adventures 
should take several years. Every scenario offers plenty 
of opportunities to keep the companions busy for a 
year of game time, as the players can easily follow their 
Adventuring phase with a fruitful Fellowship phase, or 
even start a supplemental Adventuring phase building 
upon the consequences of the previous one. (Some 
suggestions concerning the follow-up to each adventure 
are presented at the end of each scenario).
Even if you don’t feel comfortable with playing one 
adventure per year of game time, we suggest that you at 
least let one year pass for every two adventures. A tight pace 
of gameplay could be as follows: 
Don’t Leave the Path and Of Leaves & Stewed Hobbit 
could be run over the course of the same year. Kinstrife & 
Dark Tidings is suited to be the opening adventure of a new 
year, while Those Who Tarry No Longer can be followed 
aptly by a Fellowship phase marking the end of that year. 
A Darkness in the Marshes is well suited to be the first 
adventure of any given year, with The Crossings of Celduin 
taking place the following November. 
The Watch on the Heath should follow closely for an 
intense campaign finale.
Individual
Award
Group
Award

--- PAGE 7 ---
7
- Don’t leave - 
the path 
For Heroes of level 1 or 2
• 
When: The company may undertake this quest at any 
time during the spring, summer or autumn.
• 
Where: The quest begins in Lake-town, on the Long 
Lake.
• 
What: The company are hired to escort a merchant’s 
caravan across Mirkwood. The journey begins at the 
Halls of the Elvenking. 
• 
Why: The Battle of Five Armies and the ensuing peace 
means that there is more trade and travel across the 
North. A Merchant of Dale intends to capitalise on 
this by bringing Dalish smithcraft and jewels across 
Mirkwood to Woodland Hall.
• 
Who: Baldor Rivergold is the name of the merchant. 
He travels with his son Belgo, a youth of ten years.
Adventuring Phase
This adventure is divided into six parts, covering the 
journey from Esgaroth to the Forest Gate.
Part One – Where Rivers Run With Gold
The company rescue Baldor the merchant from three 
ruffians, and he asks them to serve as his caravan guards 
on the crossing of Mirkwood.
Part Two – The Edge of the Woodland Realm
Baldor has friends in Thranduil’s court, so the first part 
of the journey is on board the Elven rafts up the Forest 
River. The company are escorted to the edge of the forest 
kingdom and warned not to leave the path.
Part Three – The Long Road
The company set off for the west, braving the perils of the 
dark wood.
Part Four – Castle of the Spiders
As the company make camp, Baldor falls afoul of 
the enchanted stream that runs through Mirkwood. 
Temporarily deprived of his memories, he flees into the 
woods and is trapped by Spiders in a ruined castle.
Part Five – The Hermit of Mirkwood
The company find shelter with a crazed hermit. Can they 
convince him to aid them, or is he planning to murder 
them in their sleep?
Part Six – The Well in the Wood
The last danger of the woods comes from the trees 
themselves. Their contempt for everything that goes on 
two legs threatens to turn into a deadly trap.
Epilogue - The Forest Gate
Where the company exits Mirkwood, and possibly reaps 
the benefits of their deeds.
– Part One – 
Where Rivers Run With Gold
The company are out in the countryside near the Long 
Lake. Perhaps they are returning from a previous journey, 
or out fishing, or simply walking by the shore. The ruins of 
the old Lake-town are visible in the water. Blackened poles 
poke out like ribs, and when the water is very, very still, 
one can sometimes spot the bones of Smaug the Dreadful. 
Sometimes gemstones from the dragon’s fabled diamond 
waistcoat wash up on the shore. 
The company hear someone running, and shouts of ‘help! 
help!’. A young boy about ten years old bursts out of the 
rushes ahead of them. He spots the company and runs 
towards them, waving his arms. Tears run down his 
cheeks.
“Help! Please help! My father – his guards – they’re going 
to kill him! We’re going to Mirkwood and they’re going to 
kill him! He told me to run! Find help! Help!”
Belgo’s words tumble out in a terrified flood. The 
company can piece together the story: his father Baldor 
is a merchant of Dale. He has a caravan of trade goods, 
and intended to bring it across Mirkwood. He hired three 
guards for protection, but these guards have now turned 
on him. The caravan is nearby – if the company hurry, 
they can rescue Baldor.
Don’t Leave the Path

--- PAGE 8 ---
Wilderland Adventures
8
Playing Baldor
Baldor is tired and careworn, and more than a little 
out of his depth. He is too old and soft for long 
journeys, but he lost his fortune in the destruction of 
Lake-town and so he is forced to return to the road.
Don’t be a burden to the company. Try to help the 
player characters.
Worry about everything, especially Belgo. Speculate 
about the dangers in the wood.
Speak softly but try to be persuasive. Pretend to lean 
on a walking-staff.
Playing Belgo
Young Belgo is ten years old, on the cusp of 
becoming an adult. 
Take care of the ponies. Show that you are as useful 
as any of the company. 
Never argue directly with your father, but second-
guess him when talking to the player characters.
Look up at the players to give them the impression 
that you are smaller than they are. 
Saving Baldor
Baldor and the three thugs are only a short distance away, 
on the path that led from old Lake-town into the forest. 
This path is now mostly overgrown – few people pass 
this way now, as the site of the town was moved after the 
death of the dragon. Baldor stands with his back to a tree 
and a heavy branch in his hand. His three treacherous 
caravan guards surround him with drawn swords. One of 
the three has a nasty fresh welt on his face, where Baldor 
struck him with the branch. Refer to the Path Map on the 
front end papers.
Anyone from Dale or Esgaroth recognises the three 
guards as Jonar, Kelmund and Finnar, three notorious 
troublemakers from Lake-town. A few years ago, they were 
thugs in the service of the old Master. The new, wiser Master 
dismissed them from service, and they are now thieves 
and sell-swords. Obviously, they decided that murdering 
Baldor and taking his caravan was more profitable and a 
lot safer than braving the wilds of Mirkwood.
When the company arrive, Jonar – the biggest of the trio – 
tries to convince them to leave. “Be off!” he shouts, “This 
is none of your business!” He claims that Baldor cheated 
them, and that they are only taking what is due to them. 
When it becomes clear that the company do not believe 
1/2

--- PAGE 9 ---
9
him, he tries to appeal to their greed. All they need to do 
is turn their backs for a minute, and keep their mouths 
shut afterwards, and he’ll give them a cut of the stolen 
goods. 
Intimidating the Thugs
The trio are craven at heart – the company can intimidate 
them into leaving with an Charisma (Intimidation) 
check before the fight begins. If the character beats a 
DC 15, the thugs depart but nurse grudges against the 
company, and may prove to be trouble in future should 
the company ever return to Lake-town. If the character 
beats a DC of 20, the thugs are so terrified that they never 
dare cross the company again. 
Fighting the Thugs
Where words do not serve, then swords must out. The 
thugs are not an especially difficult group of foes, and try 
to surrender if reduced to half their starting Hit Points.
During the fight, Baldor harasses the thugs by taking 
wild swings with his tree-branch; each round, randomly 
pick one player character fighting the thugs. That player 
character has Advantage on their attacks this round.
Use the Thug statistics on p. 73 of the Loremaster’s Guide. 
Baldor’s Offer
Once the thugs are dealt with, Baldor throws down his 
branch and embraces his son. He then expresses his 
thanks for the company’s prompt rescue. 
“Thank you! Thank you! You arrived in the nick of time.”
He explains that he set out from Lake-town with his son and 
the three thugs. He is a merchant and a travelling trader, 
and his four ponies are carrying iron tools and toys from 
Dale that he intends to sell to the folk of Woodland Hall. 
He has arranged with the Elves for passage through their 
lands. He knows that Mirkwood is dangerous, and so he 
looked in Esgaroth for guards who were brave enough to 
risk the crossing of the forest. It seems that he chose poorly. 
He offers the job of guarding the caravan to the company 
instead. He promises to pay them in coin and goods 
(totalling 50 silver pennies each) once they reach the 
Forest Gate. 
Baldor’s History
If the company question Baldor, they can learn the 
following as they travel:
• 
He was once a rich merchant of Lake-town, but he lost 
a great deal when the dragon fell on the city.
• 
Not only was his fortune destroyed, but his wife Halla 
also perished. He carried his young son out of the 
flames, but could not find his wife.
• 
While others have found prosperity in the years since 
the Battle of Five Armies, he has not been so lucky. He 
moved to Dale when its reconstruction started, but he 
has yet to rebuild his former wealth.
• 
Young Belgo is a good lad, his father’s pride and joy. 
The Journey
Baldor has already planned the journey, although well-
travelled companions can make suggestions. He plans to 
meet with Elvish friends of his at the edge of Mirkwood, 
and these Elves will accompany the caravan up the river 
on paddle-boats. From the Elvenking’s hall, the company 
will set off down the Forest Path to the west side. 
Don’t Leave the Path

--- PAGE 10 ---
Wilderland Adventures
10
The caravan consists of Baldor, Belgo, and four ponies. 
Most ponies refuse to travel under the eaves of Mirkwood, 
but these hardy beasts have been acclimatised by arduous 
training, and will at least consent to be dragged along the 
Elf-Path.  He already has plenty of travelling supplies for 
the company. Baldor leads the company along the banks 
of the Forest River, taking a well-travelled path that runs 
alongside the waters.
– Part Two – 
The Edge of the Woodland Realm
At twilight, a trio of rafts emerge from the mists on the 
river. Green-cloaked figures punt these rafts to the shore. 
The Elves greet Baldor and the company warmly – the 
merchant is well known to them. The Elves are amused 
and fascinated by Belgo; they say there are few children 
among them in these days. 
The ponies are unloaded and their burdens transferred to 
the rafts. The animals are initially wary about getting onto 
the rafts, but one of the Elves whispers in the ponies’ ears, 
and instantly all four of the animals become perfectly 
calm, happily trot onto the rafts and stand stock-still in 
the middle. 
Once departed, the Elves expertly pilot their rafts against 
the current of the Forest River. After several days of slow 
travel, the land on either side of the rafts rises and turns 
stony and wooded, and the company pass into the shadow 
of the trees. It is as though the rafts are sailing up a dark 
tunnel, as the branches interlace overhead into a dark 
canopy. The company glimpse tall hills in gaps between 
the trees, until the river widens and the trees grow thinner 
once again. Here, a bay opens, and huts cling close to a 
shingly shore. The  Elves steer up a stream which flows 
out of a rocky canyon. The canyon walls grow higher and 
higher, until the rafts pass a portcullis and suddenly they 
find themselves in the caves of the Elvenking.
Guests of the Elves
Sadly, the company see little of the Elvenking’s halls. 
Baldor is met by a friend of his, an Elf named Lindar who 
is master of the king’s cellars. Baldor is welcome here – 
the other characters may not be so lucky. If the company 
are unable to convince Lindar of their good character, 
they are obliged to wait under guard in the cellars until 
the caravan is ready to depart. Elves of Mirkwood are of 
course allowed to wander the halls as they wish.
Motivation
Lindar’s sole motivation is to ensure that the player 
characters keep the peace within the Elf-King’s halls.
1/2

--- PAGE 11 ---
11
Expectations
+2: If the player characters are especially polite and 
courteous, or bring interesting news from afar
+1: If there are any Elves in the Company.
-1: If there any Dwarves in the company. 
-2: If the characters demand better accommodation or 
complain about the guards.
Introduction
In the halls of the Elven-king, it is expected that one makes 
a DC 15 Intelligence (Traditions) check. Less educated 
heroes might make a DC 20 Charisma (Persuasion) 
check instead.
Interaction
Lindar suggests that as the Elves do not know the company, 
they should remain here to ‘guard the supplies’. In two 
days, the Elves will bring the company to the edge of 
Thranduil’s realm. In the meantime, they can remain here 
in the caves; Lindar promises to send down some bread 
and wine.
Outcomes
Failure: Insulted, Lindar demands that the company 
leave immediately. It’s a Fell and Forboding Start to their 
crossing of Mirkwood, and they automatically get that 
result without having to roll on the Embarkation table.
Success by 0-2: Lindar permits the adventures to reside in 
the caves until they are ready to depart.
Success by 3-4: Lindar sends down excellent meals from 
the Elf-King’s kitchens, and the adventurers are welcome 
to visit again in future.
Success by 6 or more: The characters are permitted to 
stay in better quarters in the upper caves, and may even 
hear the Elves singing. The combination of soft beds 
and good company ensures the characters depart With 
Hopeful Hearts and Clear Purpose when the journey 
begins without needing to roll on the Embarkation table.
The Journey Begins
After two days, Lindar and some other Elves escort the 
company out of the caves by a secret route, and bring them 
some miles down the Elf-path. This part of the wood is not 
so oppressive; the path is lined with beeches, and sunlight 
filters through the trees to dapple everything with green-
gold light. This region still preserves the beauty and peace 
of Greenwood the Great. Lindar warns that the company 
will soon enter more perilous regions, and he gives them 
one key piece of advice – don’t leave the path!  The path is 
mostly clear of trouble, but the same cannot be said of the 
woods to either side.
Loading the Ponies
Companions can profit from the fact that they are 
travelling with ponies and load some of their gear 
upon them. Heroes travelling with ponies can ignore 
the first level of exhaustion incurred on a Journey. See 
page 166 of the Adventures in Middle-earth Player’s 
Guide.
– Part Three – 
The Long Road
Lindar and the Elves have led the company to the point 
where the Enchanted Stream crosses the Elf-path. They 
bring the company across by boat – the ponies are 
temporarily relieved of their load – and the Elves warn the 
characters not to drink from the stream. Once their feet 
are firmly set on the path, Lindar bids them good luck, 
and vanishes into the shadows of the trees. The company 
are now on their own, and face a long journey. 
The Journey
The companions must follow the Elf-path across almost 
the whole width of Mirkwood. While walking on the path 
eases the toll of the journey somewhat (the forest doesn’t 
darken their hearts as grievously as if they were leaving 
the trail), being parted from the light of the sun and the 
open air for so long is going to put the company to the test.
• 
Travel through Mirkwood, even along the Elf-Path, is 
arduous. This journey has a Peril Rating of 3. 
• 
The road from the Enchanted Stream to the Forest 
Gate is 160 miles, making it a Medium journey. Roll 
1d2+1 for the number of challenges. The DC for any 
journey events is 15.
Don’t Leave the Path
1/2

--- PAGE 12 ---
Wilderland Adventures
12
• 
The darkness of the forest weighs heavily on the 
company’s spirits. Travellers in wild lands like the 
forest must make two Wisdom saving throws (DC 15); 
each failed saving throw gives 1 point of Shadow. 
While the truly perilous parts of the forest are away down 
to the south, in the Heart of Mirkwood and around Dol 
Guldur, that does not mean that travelling in Northern 
Mirkwood is a pleasant stroll through the woods. 
• 
Refer to the Wilderland Adventures Journey Events 
Table starting on Page 143 for the events that may 
occur during this journey.
Belgo’s Talisman
As noted on page 15, Belgo wears a talisman around 
his neck as a reminder of his lost mother. This talisman 
plays a key role in the final part of this adventure, so 
the Loremaster should establish its existence earlier in 
the game. For example, if the company are attacked 
by spiders, then Belgo could drop the talisman in the 
struggle, and one of the other characters could spot it. 
 – Part Four – 
Castle of the Spiders
The Enchanted Stream runs through Mirkwood, and the 
main course of the waters crosses the Forest Path far to 
the east of the company’s present location. There are other 
streams in Mirkwood, though, and they too are not always 
wholesome to drink from.
This part of the adventure begins when the company 
make camp. Their Scouts find an excellent place to rest 
for the night, where the path opens into a pleasant, 
grassy forest clearing. Any Elf in the party recognises this 
spot as one of the open-air feast-halls of the Elvenking, 
although this particular field has not been used in many 
years. A sparkling stream of fresh water runs along the 
edge of the clearing. The company make camp – if the 
player characters mutter about wanting to push on, then 
young Belgo throws himself down on the grassy floor and 
announces that he is much too tired to travel any more 
that day. 
Presumably, the company set watches during the night.
Baldor’s Error
During the night, Baldor the merchant wakes up. He leaves 
his bedroll and exchanges a few words with whoever is on 
watch, and complains about bad dreams. He is still half-
asleep, but his mouth is dry so he wanders over to the 
stream to take a drink of water. Moonlight shimmers on 
the dancing waters, and what was safe and pure during 
the day is not always unchanged at night.
When Baldor drinks from the stream, it robs him of his 
memories. The last five years fall away from Baldor’s 
mind. He forgets where he is, and who he has become. 
Suddenly, he believes he is back in Esgaroth on that 
terrible night five years ago, when the dragon came to the 
Long Lake.
He sees the company and mistakes them for bandits who 
have kidnapped him. All he knows is that he has to get back 
to Lake-town, to save his wife and child from the dragon. 
He does not even recognise Belgo – in his mind, Belgo is 
a laughing five-year-old, not a prematurely serious boy of 
ten. Belgo looks into his father’s eyes, and sees no spark

--- PAGE 13 ---
13
of recognition or love. His father looks at the boy as if he 
was a stranger.
“Who are you? Where am I? Where... there is fire under 
the Mountain! Those fools have woken the dragon! I must 
find Halla! I... you’ve kidnapped me! You rogues! Where 
is Belgo?”
A DC 10 Wisdom (Insight) check makes it clear that 
Baldor is not in his right mind – his eyes burn with crazed 
intensity, and he clearly does not recognise the company. 
If anyone approaches him, he turns and sprints headlong 
in the forest. 
Following Baldor
The company need to decide what is to be done quickly. 
The longer they wait, the farther Baldor strays from the 
path. Will they all go after him? Will they take the ponies? 
Belgo volunteers to remain behind to watch the animals, 
while the characters rescue his father. 
The most likely solution is that they leave the boy to guard 
the ponies, as this clearing seems like a safe place. If one or 
more player characters stay behind, then the Loremaster 
could have the clearing attacked by spiders to put them 
in peril. 
Normally, tracking someone through the forest would 
require a Wisdom (Survival) test, but in this case Baldor 
trampled through the muddy ground near the stream, 
leaving big deep footprints that even a blind Dwarf could 
follow. However, the characters have to hunt around for 
the trail with torches until dawn breaks, so it takes them 
several hours to follow Baldor’s route. The trail plunges 
into the dark woods, until it just suddenly stops, as if 
Baldor vanished into thin air. Searching around reveals 
a few strands of webbing hanging from two trees nearby. 
A successful DC 10 Intelligence (Investigation) check 
determines that Baldor blundered into a spider-web 
at such speed that he pulled the web off the trees it was 
anchored to. Looking around finds drag marks on the 
ground. He must have gotten tangled up in the web, then 
something dragged him off deeper into the woods.
Following the trail brings the company to another 
clearing.
The Castle
A castle stands on a low hill amid the sea of green trees. 
It’s anybody guess if it was Elves or Men who built this 
castle, but it has fallen into ruin. No trace remains of 
the defensive walls or outbuildings; all that remains are 
a single round tower and part of what must have once 
been the keep. The keep has crumbled and collapsed in on 
itself, leaving only one corner still standing as an L-shaped 
wall. Both tower and wall are covered in a dense shroud 
of cobwebs, and web-strands run between tower and wall. 
Hanging from the very top of the wall is a wriggling bundle 
of webbing. It must be Baldor.
- Belgo -
- Baldor -
Don’t Leave the Path
1/2
1/8

--- PAGE 14 ---
Wilderland Adventures
14
There is no sign of any spiders at first glance, but there 
are any number of places where they could be hiding. The 
only sound is the occasional thump as Baldor wrestles and 
struggles against his bonds. To get to Baldor, the company 
need to climb the wall, or else climb the still-intact spiral 
staircase in the tower and then clamber across the 
webbing to the top of the wall. Refer to the Castle Map on 
the front end papers.
Climbing the Wall
The wall is thirty feet high and is tricky to climb, as the 
character must be careful to avoid getting stuck on the 
cobwebs. 
• 
Climbing the wall requires a DC 15 Strength 
(Athletics) check. 
If the test fails, the character gets stuck on the cobwebs 
(becoming Restrained) and must cut their way free, which 
attracts the attention of the spiders – see The March of 
the Spiders, below. Cutting through the web requires a 
DC 10 Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) or DC 13 Strength 
(Athletics) check. If the test fails by 10 or more, then the 
character falls from the wall and suffers 2d6 damage.
The Tower Stairs
The spiral staircase in the tower is mostly intact, so the 
characters can easily make their way up to the top. From 
there, they can see a ‘bridge’ of spider-webs running from 
the tower to the top of the wall – but they can also see 
dozens of spiders nesting on the far side of the ruined 
keep. The spiders seem to be sleeping, but any vibration 
on the web will alert them.
• 
Crossing the bridge requires a DC 15 Dexterity 
(Acrobatics) check.. 
Failing the test alerts the spiders; failing by 10 or more 
alerts the spiders and means that the character is caught 
by the webbing again; the hero is Restrained and must 
make a DC 10 Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) or DC 13 
Strength (Athletics) check to get free.
Rescuing Baldor
Once a character reaches Baldor, they can drag his body 
to the top of the wall with a DC 13 Strength (Athletics) 
check and then cut him loose. Baldor is Stunned, but can 
move or climb with a hero’s assistance. Both Baldor and 
the assisting hero move at half speed during this process. 
Baldor and the heroes must make another Dexterity 
check to cross the bridge and another Strength check to 
descend the wall.
March of the Spiders
If the companions manage to reach Baldor, cut him loose 
and escape the scene without failing a single skill check, 
then they successfully rescue the merchant out from under 
the noses of the spiders (if spiders have noses) without

--- PAGE 15 ---
15
being seen. However, if one of the characters pulls on the 
wrong strand, then the spiders come marching.
• 
In the first round, the characters feel the web moving, 
but no spider appears. In the second and subsequent 
rounds, a single Attercop arrives to menance the 
heroes. Each Attercop that joins the fight gains the 
same Initiative as its brethren. 
While a single Attercop (page 105, LMG) is not a deadly 
threat to a group of well-rested adventurers, unlucky dice 
rolls might mean that the company is soon outnumbered. 
If there are more spiders than heroes, they are in terrible 
danger. The Attercops target characters who are stuck in 
the web. 
Doomed!
If luck turns against the characters and it seems as 
though they are about to be defeated by the spiders, 
then the Loremaster can rescue them by having the 
hermit show up with a bow. The hermit laughs and 
shouts nonsense while he fires deadly accurate shots at 
the biggest of the spiders. 
Escape!
After the characters rescue Baldor, they still need to make 
their way back to the path, and they must do so with a 
host of brown hairy spiders scuttling after them. The 
spiders move with unnatural speed, leaping from tree to 
tree and trailing strands of webbing like fishing lures as 
they try to snare the companions. Baldor is still confused 
after drinking from the Enchanted Stream, but even in 
his witless state, he recognises that he is better off with 
these strange companions than as a spider’s supper. After 
several minutes’ running, the characters arrive back at 
the clearing, where they meet Belgo and the ponies. The 
spiders do not dare cross the path.
Baldor recovers most of his memories after a few hours’ 
rest and conversation with his son. He seems unsteady 
and wary for the rest of the journey. He tells the characters 
that he thought that he was back in Esgaroth when Smaug 
attacked, and relates the tale of how his wife Hilla was 
lost when the dragon fell on Lake-town. Baldor was able 
to carry his young son out of the flames, but never saw 
Hilla again.
Gathering Darkness
During the rest of the journey, show that there is now a 
wedge between Baldor and Belgo. The boy feels betrayed 
and lonely, and Baldor is too confused and nervous to 
comfort his son – the memory-erasing stream washed 
away most of Baldor’s memory of the last five years, and 
he finds it hard to reconcile his surviving memories of his 
son with the present situation. 
• 
In game terms, poor Belgo has picked up several 
Shadow points due to anguish and terror. Belgo spends 
more and more time toying with the amulet he wears 
around his neck.
 – Part Five – 
The Hermit
The Hermit of Mirkwood had a name once, but he lost it 
in the dungeons of Dol Guldur. He remembers only parts 
of his life before the darkness. He was a Woodman, a 
warrior, a hero. He remembers sun on the trees, the weight 
of an axe in his hand, the smoke rising from the cooking 
fires at the end of a long hunt, the warmth of the Great 
House when the winter winds howled outside. All that was 
lost when he was captured. For many years he suffered 
in the dungeons, tormented by Orcs and other horrors. 
Then, five years ago, the Shadow was driven from the Hill 
of Sorcery. The Hermit heard the noise of a tremendous 
storm overhead, a storm so loud it woke him in his gaol 
cell deep underground. He found the door was unlocked, 
and he fled through the endless warren of tunnels until he 
came to a drain that opened into sunlight. He fled, naked 
and shrieking and quite quite mad, into the forest, and 
here he has lived alone since that day.
The Thunderstorm
The company are travelling along the Elf-path when a 
sudden storm descends on Mirkwood, turning the forest 
as dark as midnight. High winds tear through the tree-tops, 
sending a hail of leaves and twigs down on the company. 
Larger branches creak ominously, and rotten boughs crack 
and tumble. The clouds open as though some great hand 
Don’t Leave the Path

--- PAGE 16 ---
Wilderland Adventures
16
picked up the whole of the Long Lake and dumped it on the 
forest. Thunder and lightning crash overhead, incredibly 
loud and perilously close, and water starts trickling along 
the trees more and more copiously until dozens of little 
streams and rills start winding their way through the forest 
floor. Further travel is impossible – the company must find 
a dry place within sight of the path.
• 
As lightning flashes, one of the company’s Scouts 
spots an unusual sight at some distance from the path. 
There is a huge dead hollow tree up ahead, and a thin 
plume of woodsmoke rises from the top. Someone is 
living inside the hollow tree! Searching around the 
base of the tree lets the characters find a tunnel that 
runs between the roots into the tree’s interior.
There is no sign of anyone around or inside, but they 
cannot be far away if they left a cooking fire unattended. 
Even if the company are willing to brave the weather and 
travel on, neither Baldor nor Belgo is strong enough to 
keep going in the teeth of the storm. The hermit’s tree is 
the only source of shelter to hand. 
The Hermit’s Tree
The hermit’s tree is hollow on the inside. The entrance 
tunnel opens into a single round room. The walls are the 
dead wood of the tree, and the roof is a mix of bark and 
thatch that keeps most of the wind and rain out. It is not 
as snug as a hobbit-hole, but it’s better than being outside 
in Mirkwood in the storm. There is a ring of stones in the 
middle of the room, and a small cooking-fire burns there, 
with some hunks of meat (one hopes a rabbit or a squirrel) 
cooking on a spit. Other unidentifiable bits of meat hang 
from the ceiling on long black strings. There is a single bed 
of leaves and furs near the fire. Jars of water and baskets of 
fruit sit in a cool muddy hollow at the back of the room. Any 
Woodmen recognise the style of the handiwork. Looking 
around leads to a grim discovery, though – the walls are 
covered in woodcarvings depicting horrible faces and 
monsters of all sorts. Whoever lives here is tormented by 
nightmares.
Encountering the Hermit
After a few minutes, the company hear scratching outside, 
as someone arrives at the entrance tunnel and wriggles 
their way into the hollow tree. The characters smell the 
hermit before they see him; an incredibly rank smell wafts 
from his filthy rags and scarred, rail-thin body. His wrists 
and ankles are scarred. The hermit shrieks in alarm when 
he finds the company in his home, and levels a spear at 
them, but he does not attack. 
Playing the Hermit
Talk to yourself. Argue with yourself. 
Mutter random nonsense.
You’re crazy, but you know you’re crazy. Get 
irritated if the characters try to soothe you. Hunch 
your shoulders, chatter your teeth, sniff the air like 
an animal.
Motivation
Get the strangers out of your tree! Drive them away! But 
wait… you remember, long ago… better days, sun on your 
face. Maybe… friends? 
Expectations
+2: If the company treat the hermit with respect and 
kindness; if there is a Woodman in the company
+1: If threatened effectively
-1: If anyone asks questions about the carvings; if there 
are any Elves or Dwarves in the company
-2: If threatened ineffectively
Introduction
The company must explain who they are and why they 
have trespassed in the hermit’s home. 
1/2

--- PAGE 17 ---
17
Interaction
The first thing to do is to ask for permission to stay. This 
requires a DC 13 Charisma (Persuasion) check, though 
Intelligence (Riddle) may also be used. Offering the 
hermit food and drink helps win him over – he is obviously 
starving and gobbles down anything the company offer 
him. If the company ask who the hermit is, he shrugs.
“Don’t need a name, do I? There’s only me, I know who I 
am. I’m me. You need name, though. You’re not me. Had a 
name once, but they took it.”
Asking about the carvings on the walls alarms him. He 
made those to scare away his nightmares. There is a 
darkness in the wood, he insists, a great shadow. The light 
drove it away, but it is growing again. He hears it creep up 
on him as he sleeps. That’s why he hides in this tree, and 
why he stays away from Men. He knows that the Shadow 
crawls into the hearts of Men and turns them into beasts. 
Why, any of the company could be servants of the Shadow. 
• 
Unless the company reassure him that they are all 
enemies of the Necromancer, he attacks them. 
Outcomes
Failure: The Hermit screams at them to leave his house. 
If they agree to do so, then they find that the worst of the 
storm has passed, but the company still suffer a -1 penalty 
to their Arrival roll. If they refuse, then the Hermit attacks; 
(If needed, use stats for Town Guard, LMG pg 69, with a 
club for weapon.) killing the Hermit in his own home is a 
Misdeed worth at least 3 Shadow Points.
Success by 0-5: After a few minutes, the Hermit grows 
tired of the conversation, and falls asleep. The company 
can stay in the hollow tree for the rest of the night, but 
must depart in the morning once the storm has passed.
Success by 6+: If the company win his trust, then the hermit 
reaches into his tattered rags and produces a broken piece 
of metal. It is the remains of a once-magnificent axe-head. 
The Hermit presses it into the hands of a companion, 
saying that the Shadow hides in things and it is better 
to have nothing of value, because the darkness could be 
hiding in a stone or an egg-shell or a gemstone or a ring. 
He carried this axe-head for too long, and now he wants 
the characters to take it away.
• 
A successful DC 15 Intelligence (Lore) check 
identifies the piece of metal as a shard from a famous 
axe called Wolfbiter (Woodmen heroes recognise the 
item right away). The weapon was an heirloom of the 
folk of Woodland Hall, but was lost long ago when 
one of their chieftain’s sons was captured by Orcs. 
 – Part Six – 
The Well in the Wood
The western reaches of Mirkwood are grim and dangerous. 
Some woods were inhabited by Men once, and the trees 
still remember the bite of the axe. This part of the forest 
is far from the Shadow in the south, but its depths are 
unwelcoming nonetheless and have no love for anything 
that walks on two legs. 
Still, the air in some places is not so stagnant and heavy, 
and the light is brighter. Sometimes, through gaps in the 
canopy, the company can see the open sky above. In the 
filtered sunlight, the company see stones scored with 
runes, or piled rocks that show that Men once lived in 
these parts. One day soon, they will come around a bend 
in the path and see the end of the road and the Forest Gate 
as the land slopes down towards the Vales of Anduin.  
The Ancient Wood
The day after the storm sees the sun rising on a warm 
morning (unusually warm if it’s autumn). Even if the 
company is still in the shadow of Mirkwood, they feel 
the temperature rising. As the company marches on, the 
companions begin to feel very hot. Towards midday, a 
sense of sleepiness seems to creep out of the ground and up 
their legs. Flies buzz round their ears, and water trickling 
from a hundred rills sounds like a half-whispered lullaby. 
A short distance ahead of the company there is an old 
stone well, and at the bottom of that well lives something 
nameless and malignant. The ancient trees living in this 
area have struck a deal with the thing, and lure to it any 
traveller who dare tread upon their roots. 
• 
When the company is in the area close to the well, 
call for a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw. All those 
who fail gain a Shadow point as they start feeling 
Don’t Leave the Path
1/4

--- PAGE 18 ---
Wilderland Adventures
18
downhearted and worn out. If at least half of the 
companions fail the roll, the company agrees to stop 
for a midday break. 
If the company stop, they choose a place a short distance 
from the path. Close by, the mouth of the old well opens. 
The well is not readily visible, as it is simply a low ring of 
stones around a hole in the ground, currently covered by 
fallen leaves and thick undergrowth. Those companions 
who do not act as look-outs feel compelled to take a nap 
after a quick meal. As soon as they close their eyes, they 
start having vivid dreams. If the companions do not 
agree to stop (less than half the company failed their roll), 
those who failed the saving throw begin to have strange 
intuitions instead.
Dreams and Intuitions
The wood that the company is travelling across is weaving 
a spell to send the companions towards the thing lurking 
at the bottom of the well. Whether they are sleeping or still 
marching, the heroes who failed the saving throw receive 
suggestions from the ancient and malevolent trees.
• 
The companions dream or feel that something of 
great importance is nearby, if only they can find it. Tie 
these dreams or visions into the characters’ Shadow 
Weaknesses. A Scholar might dream that there is a book 
describing many secrets of the Enemy at the bottom of 
a well nearby; a Treasure Hunter might glimpse gold 
inside it, while a Wanderer is strangely drawn to leave 
the path and explore the nearby woods.
Under the Spell
If any character succumbs to a Bout of Madness while 
near the well, they run towards it. If none of the characters 
has such a fit, then it falls to young Belgo to be the victim. 
The boy is tormented by dreams that his mother’s ghost 
is nearby, calling him from the trees. With his father half-
lost to him because of the Enchanted Stream’s theft of 
memories, Belgo is uniquely vulnerable to the lure of the 
trees. He runs off into the wood, crying his mother’s name 
and holding his talisman tightly. 
If Belgo, or a companion, is drawn into the woods, 
he crashes through the trees, leaving the path. Their 
companions can either try to restrain the victims, or else 
follow them into the woods to the well.
The Old Well
The well itself is some twenty feet deep. A stone ledge juts 
out of the wall half-way down, and the bottom of the shaft 
is choked with ropy plant growths, like thick roots or the 
tangled stems of a monstrous creeper vine. Among the ropy 
vines are many old bones, the remains of previous victims 
of The Thing in the Well. An old rotten rope hangs down 
into the well, but putting any weight on it snaps the rope 
instantly. Refer to the Well Map on the front end papers.
• 
The first victim to reach the well throws himself into 
it. If it is Belgo, he lands heavily on the stone ledge. A 
player character who jumps into the well falls all the 
way to the bottom and lands among the vines, falling 
for the full twenty feet. 
1/4

--- PAGE 19 ---
19
The Creature Attacks
When someone falls into the well, or is at least within 20 
feet from its mouth, the ropy vines unfold and attack. The 
lashing tentacles are all guided by one purpose, and try to 
wrap around the companions to strangle and crush them.
The companions who failed the saving throw are still 
under the power of the spell set upon them by the wood: 
they don’t see the creature as a horrible monster, but as 
whatever dream or vision drew them here. Belgo sees his 
mother embracing him; a character who came here in 
search of gold sees gold coins and jewels at the bottom of 
the well, and thinks he is digging them out of the ground, 
when he is actually being strangled by the creature. 
• 
As a consequence, they cannot attack the creature 
in any way, and cannot be persuaded to stay away 
from it.
Victims are freed from their madness if the creature is 
wounded, or if another character helps them snap out of 
it. For example, if Belgo’s talisman is torn from his grasp, 
then he sees the creature for what it really is. 
Fighting the Creature
Characters inside the well have Disadvantage on their 
attacks on the creature, while the creature has Advantage 
against them.
• 
Climbing out of the well requires a DC 15 Strength 
(Athletics) check. Characters hit while climbing will 
be knocked back down.
• 
Companions outside the well can fight normally. The 
companions harm the thing by hacking at its many 
tentacle-like arms. If the creature is reduced to 20 or 
fewer hit points, its gnarled tentacles slither back into 
the well and vanish into the mud at the bottom.
The Thing in the Well
There are older and fouler things than Orcs in the deep 
places of the world.
Not even the Wise might guess whether the creature in the 
well is a part of the wicked wood or something that crept 
out of dark waters under Mirkwood.
The Thing in the Well
Medium Aberration (Nameless Thing)
STR 
15 (+2)
DEX 
14 (+2)
CON 
13 (+1)
INT 
6 (-2)
WIS 
10 (+0)
CHA 
9 (-1)
Armour Class 12
Hit Points 55 (10d8+10)
Speed 0 ft
Condition Immunities: Blinded, Prone
Skills Perception +2, Stealth +4
Senses darkvision 60 ft, passive Perception 12
Challenge 2 (450 XP)
Many Tentacles (Recharge 6). The Thing in the Well 
may use its action to make a tentacle attack on all 
creatures within 20 feet of it.
Actions
Tentacle. Melee Attack: +4 to hit, reach 20 ft. Hit: 6 
(1d8+2) bludgeoning damage. If the target was attempting 
to climb out of the well, it must make a DC 13 Strength 
or be knocked back into back into the well. If the target is 
outside the well, it must make a DC 13 Dexterity saving 
throw or be pulled into the well.
 – Epilogue – The Forest Gate –
From the well, it is only a short few days travel to the edge 
of the woods. The company emerge into blazing sunlight 
and a refreshing breeze. From here, Baldor intends to travel 
south to trade with the Woodmen and the Beornings; these 
lands are protected by Beorn’s folk, so there is little danger 
of bandits and he no longer needs the company’s services. 
He thanks them and pays them what he promised. The 
company have passed through Mirkwood and lived to tell 
the tale. Wilderland lies before them!
Fellowship Phase
If a Fellowship Phase follows this adventure, then the 
company could continue with Baldor to Woodland Hall 
and stay there, to possibly turn the hall into a sanctuary. 
Once there, they might consider returning the shard of the 
axe Wolfbiter to their rightful owners, the Woodmen of the 
House of Woodland Hall. If they do so, they are invited 
to meet their Council of Elders, and then presented with 
gifts worth 20 silver pennies each. Moreover, from now 
on they can consider both Woodland Hall AND the nearby 
Woodmen-town as Sanctuaries.
Don’t Leave the Path
1/4

--- PAGE 20 ---
Wilderland Adventures
20
- of Leaves - 
& Stewed Hobbit 
For Heroes of level 2 or 3
• 
When: This quests fits best at any time during 
summer or autumn, in any year from 2946 onwards. 
• 
Where: The adventure begins at the Easterly Inn, a 
new establishment on the road from the Old Ford to 
the Forest Gate of Mirkwood, and then leads across 
the Great River to the High Pass.
• 
What: A caravan of goods and supplies from the 
Shire has failed to arrive on time, and the innkeeper, 
one Dodinas Brandybuck, Esq., newly arrived in the 
Wild, fears for his brother’s safety. The characters are 
asked to look for signs of the caravan and ensure the 
safety of Dinodas Brandybuck and the trade goods.
• 
Why: The new Easterly Inn could be a haven for 
travellers or even a Sanctuary for the player characters 
if it survives, so protecting the inn is a good deed for all 
who adventure in the Wild. More prosaically, Dodinas 
offers a small sum of money and other treasures if the 
companions find his brother.
• 
Who: The object of the quest is Dinodas ‘Dindy’ 
Brandybuck, the younger brother of the innkeeper.
Adventuring Phase
This adventure is divided into six parts, comprising the 
initial Audience at the inn, the journeys to and from the 
High Pass and the dangers encountered there.
Part One – The Easterly Inn
The first part of the adventure describes how it came to 
pass that a Hobbit opened an inn in the middle of the 
Wild, the history of the Brandybuck brothers, and the fate 
of the missing Dinodas. The Easterly Inn is described in 
detail, as the company may return here again and again 
on their travels.
Part Two – Searching The High Pass
This section deals with the journey across Wilderland to 
the foothills of the Misty Mountains and the High Pass. 
The company encounter several dangers on this journey, 
and pass through the ruins of a town built many centuries 
ago. They find signs that the caravan was attacked.
Part Three – Battle at the Ringfort
The company comes upon the survivors of the caravan, 
and aid them in a desperate battle against a Goblin host. 
The company is victorious (or else perish in the battle!), but 
discover that the Goblins carried off Dinodas as they fled.
Part Four – Under the Hills
Following the Goblin kidnappers brings the adventurers 
into the tunnels under the Misty Mountains. After braving 
these dark passages, they find that the Goblins have 
imprisoned Dinodas with an unbreakable chain.
Part Five – The Goblin Feast
The reputation of Hobbit cooking has reached even the 
caves of the Goblins, and they demand that Dinodas cook 
them a feast. The adventurers can use this feast to trick the 
Goblins into fighting amongst themselves, or to steal the 
key and free Dinodas from his bonds.
Epilogue – Back to the Inn
After rescuing Dinodas, the companions return to the 
Easterly Inn for their reward.
 – Part  One – 
The Easterly  Inn
In a hole in the ground there lived a Hobbit. Four Hobbits, 
in fact, with a fifth coming to join them. The Hobbit in 
question was one Dodinas Brandybuck, formerly of 
Buckland in the Shire, but now a resident of Wilderland. 
Above the newly-dug hole there was a newly-built inn, so 
new it still smelled of sawdust and paint, and the white-
washed walls were actually white and not yellowed with 
pipe-smoke and spilled beer. He lived in the hole with his 
wife Agatha and his two young sons, and there was a branch 
of the hole awaiting the arrival of his brother Dinodas.
Dodinas – or Dody, as his friends called him (and he had a 
knack for making friends) – once considered himself to be 
a well-travelled Hobbit. He had gone as far as Bree, which 
for most Hobbits constitutes about twice the journey of a 
lifetime, and dined out on his tales of strange, exotic folk

--- PAGE 21 ---
21
and unusual customs. On one trip to Bree, in the common-
room of the Prancing Pony, he met another Hobbit – the 
famous (or infamous) Bilbo Baggins. 
The two fell to sharing stories, and for once Dody was the 
one who was flabbergasted and entranced by the other’s 
stories of distant lands. Compared to Bilbo’s journey 
There and Back Again, Dody had hardly stepped outside 
his front door. After several hours and several pints, 
Bilbo invited Dody to visit him at Bag End for dinner the 
following Sunday. Dody brought his younger brother 
Dindy and his wife Agatha along.
The dinner involved several bottles of wine and more tales 
of Wilderland, as well as innumerable courses. Dodinas 
declared that he was determined to outdo Bilbo, Dinodas 
climbed on the table and sang a story about giants, Bilbo 
enthusiastically showed them his collection of maps and 
diaries, and Agatha... well, Agatha sipped her wine and 
thought about practicalities. When Agatha Took married 
Dody Brandybuck, everyone assumed that the steely young 
Hobbit-maid would drum some sense into the notoriously 
eccentric and wild Brandybuck, and ensure that he found 
a business or craft to occupy his days. However, Agatha 
was a Took, and there is a latent streak of adventure and 
wanderlust in that family.
None of the three Hobbit gentlemen could quite remember 
how it came to pass – again, a good deal of wine was 
involved – but a curious plan was formed. Since the 
successful Quest of Erebor and the defeat of the Dragon, a 
new era of peace and prosperity had fallen on the North. 
There was much more traffic on the Forest Road than 
before, thanks to the watchful eyes of the Beorning-folk 
and the revived Kingdom of Dale. These travellers and 
merchants would need somewhere to stay along the road. 
The plan was that the two brothers would build, open 
and run an inn on the road between the Old Ford and the 
Forest Gate – quite close to Beorn’s Hall, where no evil 
thing dared go. 
Bilbo gave the two brothers some money to start the 
inn, as well as several letters of introduction to various 
dignitaries and persons of importance that he had met 
on his travels. The two brothers set off from Buckland a 
few weeks later, still slightly dazed. They crossed the Misty 
Mountains without incident, and presented themselves at 
Beorn’s house. Beorn ignored the letter of introduction, 
but was amused by the Hobbits’ presumptuousness (the 
barrel of beer carried all the way from the Golden Perch 
might also have helped matters), and gave them leave to 
build their inn.
A Homely house
The Easterly Inn is situated near a little brook that flows 
out of Mirkwood towards the Great River, approximately 
twenty miles south of where the Forest gate opens along the 
eaves of the wild wood. A small stone bridge arches over 
the babbling waters, and just beyond that stands the inn. 
The Easterly Inn (Dindy jokes that it is the eastern-most 
Of Leaves & Stewed Hobbit
1/8

--- PAGE 22 ---
Wilderland Adventures
22
outpost of the Shire) consists of a small but comfortable 
wooden inn containing the common room and a few guest 
rooms for Big Folk, some outbuildings and stables, and 
the Hobbit-hole beneath, where Dindy, Dody, Agatha and 
Dody’s two young sons live. 
Although it only opened a few months ago, the inn 
is gaining a reputation as a good stopping point for 
journeys east of Mirkwood. The beer is good, the food 
is excellent, and Hobbits make wonderful hosts (even 
when their homes are invaded by thirteen dwarves and 
a wizard, as Bilbo proved some years previously). In truth, 
the success of the inn has less to do with Dody’s beer or 
even Agatha’s delicious food, and owes more to Beorn’s 
promise of protection and the curiosity of travellers come 
to see the strange Halflings. Still, if someone comes to 
shelter from bandits, and stays for the food and the soft 
feather beds, that is still silver in Dody’s pocket. 
Indeed, if the inn survives, it may become the heart of 
a new village, just as Bree sprang up at the crossroads 
around the Prancing Pony. 
Folk of the Inn
Dody Brandybuck: The owner and bartender of the 
inn, Dody is exceptionally gregarious and friendly, even 
for a Hobbit. He could talk the hind legs off any creature 
in Middle-earth; if Dody had ended up in Gollum’s cave 
instead of Bilbo, then he would have lost the Riddle-Game, 
but the Dwarves would have found Dody by following 
the noise of a drunken Gollum singing about fish. He is 
everybody’s best friend. 
Dindy Brandybuck: Dody’s younger and more nervous 
brother. Unlike his garrulous sibling, Dindy never wanted 
to travel in the Wild. He always dreamed of opening an 
inn, but assumed it would be in Buckland or maybe the 
Eastfarthing, not over the edge of the Wild. Still, if things 
keep going smoothly, then the Easterly Inn could make the 
fortune of both Brandybuck brothers, and he could move 
back to the Shire in a few years with chests of silver and 
gold, just like Bilbo Baggins.
Last spring, Dindy returned to the Shire to obtain vitally 
needed supplies, such as handkerchiefs, umbrellas, spice-
racks, silverware, barrel-spigots, feather-bolsters and 
round doors, as well as trade goods like pipe-weed and 
Shire-beer (which, to be honest, could also be counted as 
‘vitally needed supplies’). 
Agatha Brandybuck: Dody’s wife, a quiet woman of 
Tookish blood. She is much more sensible and hard-
working than Dody; she lets him keep the customers 
entertained while she organises the rest of the business. 
For example, she buys supplies off the Woodmen and the 
Beornings – and even, rarely, the Elves – and sees to the 
security of the inn. Underneath her businesslike, bustling 
demeanour, she’s absolutely enchanted to be out here in 
the Wild meeting all sorts of strange folk. 
Her two sons Dando and Rodry both run wild around the 
inn and the surrounding countryside. She intends to send 
them to foster with relatives in the Shire in a few years. 
Frier: Frier is a Dwarf tinker-smith who has travelled the 
roads between the Misty Mountains and the Iron Hills 
for years. He helped build the inn, and has signed on as 
their carpenter/blacksmith/farrier/assistant bartender/
woodcutter and general axeman in residence. Frier is fond 
of the Hobbits and fonder still of the money they pay him. 
After many years of wandering, the Easterly Inn is a good 
place for him to rest his feet.
Shadrach: A stray dog that was ‘adopted’ by the Hobbits 
– or, more accurately, that adopted them. Shadrach is 
actually one of the wonderful dogs who serve Beorn; 
Beorn asked the dog to keep an eye on the Hobbits and 
bark if anything truly dangerous menaced the inn. 
Shadrach spends his days playing with the Hobbit boys or 
lazing in front of the fire, but always keeps one ear cocked 
for danger.
The Adventure Begins
The adventure begins when the company arrive at the Inn. 
News of the new inn has likely reached them as they travel 
through the Wild, as wayfarers often share news of good 
stopping places and shelters. This may be the first time 
any of them have visited the inn. Hobbit adventurers may 
know the Brandybuck brothers already (and may have 
even travelled with them in the past, or even be part of 
this madcap scheme to open an inn in the Wild). The lights 
of the Easterly Inn shine with a warm welcoming light in 
the gloom as the company approaches. It is late summer, 
but the dusk air has a chill in it that heralds the changing

--- PAGE 23 ---
23
of the seasons. A dog strolls out of the twilight to sniff the 
characters’ hands and see if they are worth barking about.
Inside, the inn is half-full. At one table, there are a trio of 
Beornings with great tankards of ale and a big plate of 
Agatha’s sausage rolls; these Beornings are hard, fierce 
men, forged by long years battling for survival in the wild, 
but Agatha still insists they use napkins. At another table, 
the innkeeper Dody is talking to some Dwarf travellers. He 
leaps up and greets the company when they enter.
A good bed for the night can be had for 2 silver pennies, 
and heroes of lesser means can sleep in the common room 
as long as they’re buying food (5c a plate) or drink (3c 
a pint). Hobbit adventurers will be offered rooms in the 
smials beneath the Inn. Anyone succeeding at a DC 10 
Charisma (Performance) check gets a drink bought for 
them by the Beornings, who appreciate music. 
Rumours at the Inn
A successful DC 10 Charisma (Persuasion) check gets 
the characters some gossip. The Dwarves just crossed 
over the mountains from the west, and they bring stories 
about Goblins. It seems that Orcs are creeping south 
once more from their fortresses under Mount Gram and 
Mount Gundabad, and travellers in the High Pass are once 
again under threat of their attacks. One of the Dwarves 
speculates that something will have to be done about the 
matter, and wonders aloud if King Dáin or one of the other 
rulers of the North will act. The victory won at the Battle 
of Five Armies should not be thrown away through lack 
of vigilance. A more cynical Dwarf argues that the Misty 
Mountains are far away from Dale, and that this new era of 
prosperity and brotherhood will soon wither away and the 
Free Peoples will once again grow suspicious and insular. 
A successful DC 13 Wisdom (Insight) check notices that 
the innkeeper seems concerned by this news, and while he 
remains jocular and friendly, his demeanor now conceals 
his worry. In time, Dinodas approaches the company. 
Dodinas’ Plea
This encounter is weighted in favour of the adventurers, 
as the innkeeper wants a favour from them. It follows the 
standard format for Audiences.
Motivation
Dodinas wants the adventurers to go looking for his 
missing brother.
Expectations
+2: Heroes do heroic things (the Company agree to aid 
him without asking about a reward)
+1: Hobbits stick together (+1 if there is a Hobbit in the 
party, or if anyone mentions the deeds of Bilbo Baggins)
-1: ‘Tis Evil in the Wild to fare (anyone suggests that 
Dindy is already dead)
-2: Big folk are greedy (the Company demand a larger 
reward than he can readily afford)
Introduction
Once the company is comfortably sitting in the inn, and 
they have eaten, Dodinas approaches them with a tray 
of drinks. He carefully selects the drinks from his cellar 
to appeal to the different adventurers, so Hobbits get a 
pint of beer from the Shire, Elves are served fine wine, 
Beornings get mead and so on. He is clearly trying to 
curry favour. The characters can introduce themselves 
with either a DC 15 Intelligence (Traditions) or 
Charisma (Persuasion) check.
Of Leaves & Stewed Hobbit
1

--- PAGE 24 ---
Wilderland Adventures
24
Interaction
Dodinas then inquires about what business might have 
brought such a company of adventurers to visit his inn. 
He listens attentively to what the companions have to say 
about themselves. The Hobbit is preparing for his own 
speech, the one he will deliver as soon as he thinks he 
has figured the adventurers out; he will adjust his words 
depending on how the characters presented themselves: 
if during the introduction they used Intelligence to 
recite their deeds and lineages, then he approaches them 
formally with what amounts to a business proposal; if 
they used Charisma, then he introduces his request as a 
favour between friends. 
Dody gives the company a brief history of the Easterly Inn. 
He name-drops shamelessly, referring to Bilbo Baggins as 
his ‘business partner and chief investor’. He explains that 
his brother Dinodas (‘Dindy’) went West earlier in the year, 
and was supposed to return by late summer. Dindy sent 
word some months ago, saying that he had arrived and 
was gathering supplies for the long journey east. Since 
then, Dody has heard nothing of Dindy. 
Dodinas asks the company if they are travelling west, and 
if so, will they set his mind and ease and look for signs 
of his brother. If they seem willing to help him, he offers 
the companions a reward, a prize proportional to the 
impression they made on him. Use the Expectations given 
above, and modify the final roll accordingly. The hero can 
once again use Intelligence (Traditions) or Charisma 
(Persuasion) as modifiers for the final check..
Outcomes
Failure: Dodinas isn’t in a position to say no, so he 
offers the characters 40 silver pennies each. However, the 
negotiation is so fraught and bitter that all characters gain 
a point of Shadow. 
Success by 0-1: Dodinas needs the adventurers, but he 
fears he is wasting his money on them: he offers a small 
purse of coin, 20 silver pennies each.
Success by 2-3: The Hobbit adds some family silverware 
to the recompense, bringing the reward up to 40 silver 
pennies for each companion.
Success by 4-6: Apply the results of 2-3 below; moreover, 
Dodinas trusts the company and adds free lodgings for all 
companions and their direct relatives at the Easterly Inn 
for the winter. He also promises that he will consider their 
future employment as caravan guards.
Success by 6 or more: Dody is impressed. Apply the 
results of 4-6 below; additionally, Dodinas gives them the 
letters of introduction written by Bilbo (see box below).
If asked, Dody shows the company the letter he received 
from his brother earlier in the year. In it, Dindy describes 
how he has arrived in a village called Bree and started 
Letters of Introduction
Bilbo wrote several letters for the Brandybuck brothers before they left the Shire. These are very impressive legal-
looking documents, sealed with red wax on fine paper and written in Bilbo’s best handwriting. The letters start off 
with lengthy greetings to the recipient, reminding them of their past associations with Mr. Baggins, and then ask 
that the recipient ‘give aid, shelter, hospitality, assistance, friendship, trust and all manner of like good favour to the 
bearer of this missive’. Four such letters remain in Dody’s keeping – one addressed to King Dáin, one to the Master 
of Lake-town, one to King Bard, and the last addressed to ‘Gandalf the Wizard, also called the Grey Wanderer, 
of No Fixed Abode But Usually Where There’s Trouble, Middle-earth’. The other letters (to Elrond, Beorn and the 
Lord of the Eagles) were already used or lost along the way. The bearer of such a letter may use it in an Audience to 
use the starting attitude of the letter-writer in place of their own. For example, a Letter from Bilbo would allow a 
character to be treated as a Hobbit for the purposes of determining starting attitude (it should be noted that Gandalf 
considers Hobbits Favoured). Furthermore, the letter ensures that the Audience will, at minimum, be counted as a 
success - even if the bearer of the letter fails the final check, they will still get something as a reward. Each letter 
can only be used once.

--- PAGE 25 ---
25
to gather supplies and guards for his journey. Based on 
the date, Dindy should have arrived at the Easterly Inn 
if he set off within a month of writing the letter as he 
intended to do; adventurers know that journeys rarely go 
smoothly, and that Dindy may have suffered unexpected 
but quite ordinary delays. Still, if he does not arrive 
within the next few weeks, then something may indeed 
have happened to him. It is dangerous to go travelling in 
the Wild when the autumn wind blows, and even more 
so when winter comes. According to the letter, Dindy 
should be travelling with half-a-dozen Men.
 – Part Two – 
Searching the High Pass
If the companions agree to look for Dindy, then Frier the 
Dwarf suggests they set out by heading south to the Old 
Ford, and then march due west to the High Pass.
The Journey
The first leg of the journey covers ninety miles south to the 
Old Ford, but the going is easy as the company marches 
through the grassy plains and gentle countryside of the 
Beornings. Alternatively, they can travel west and take 
boats down the Great River; boats can be obtained from 
the Beornings, but doing so is expensive (5 silver pennies 
per boat for the hire) and requires a DC 15 Charisma 
(Persuasion) check.
After the long trek south, the company must cross the river 
and travel another seventy miles or so west along the road. 
The distance between the Easterly Inn and the Old Ford is 
90 miles, requires about five days, and will provoke 1d2 
Journey Events.
The trek from the Old Ford to the High Pass is 60 miles, 
takes two days to complete (thanks to the road), and will 
provoke 1d2-1 Journey Events.
From The Easterly Inn to The Old Ford
The first few days of the journey are pleasant and easy. 
An unexpected last gasp of summer brings a series of 
warm days, and the path leads through the rushes and 
meadows of the river’s flood plain. When the companions 
come upon the Old Forest Road, they will know it is time 
to turn west towards the distant grey haze of the Misty 
Mountains. 
The journey has a Peril Rating of 1; roll 1d2 for the number 
of Events at DC 13. Refer to the Wilderland Adventures 
Journey Events table starting on page 143.
Upon Reaching the Old Ford
The crossings of the Old Ford are kept by Beornings. 
The company may pass after paying a small toll (5c per 
head, any Beornings can make a DC 10 Intelligence 
(Traditions) check to waive the fee for themselves only). 
The guards remember the strange Hobbit-folk, but have 
heard no word of the caravan.
Don’t make an Arrival roll yet; wait until the Company 
arrive at the High Pass.
From The Old Ford to The High Pass
After crossing the river, the travel becomes harder in 
places. The route passes through several marshy sections, 
and the companions can see that the road – such as it 
is – is supported by piled stones. In some places, though, 
the old road has succumbed to the bog and the company 
must follow a newer, more winding path that navigates 
Of Leaves & Stewed Hobbit
1/2
1/2

--- PAGE 26 ---
Wilderland Adventures
26
around muddy pools and bog land. Sometimes they come 
upon lines of stones or even walls that mark some ancient 
border. The Beornings keep the road in repair as best they 
can, but they cannot build as well as Men once did.
The Peril Rating for this part of the journey is 2; again, roll 
1d2-1 for Challenges on the way. Refer to the Wilderland 
Adventures Journey Events table starting on page 143.
The Mountain Ruins 
After their long journey, the company arrives in a region 
marked by ancient walls and ruined arches. Most of these 
walls fell long ago and there are hardly more than two or 
three stones still piled on each other, but it is clear from 
marks in the ground and the old lines of the path that a 
town once stood here. 
A DC 13 Intelligence (History or Lore) lets a companion 
guess that these are the ruins of some Mannish town, built 
earlier in the Third Age. Those cities lasted only a brief 
span of years – the Necromancer’s reach grew long, and 
tore them down, and the Woodmen returned to the wild. 
The road leads to what must have once been a wide square 
in the heart of the town; from the marks of fire-pits, other 
travellers have made camp here in the past, and there is 
a mountain-brook nearby to provide water. It looks like 
a good camp-site, but a successful DC 15 Intelligence 
(Shadow-lore) check gives the character an eerie feeling 
about this place, as if evil lingers here still. 
If the company want to find a better resting place, 
their scouts need to make a successful DC 20 Wisdom 
(Survival) check to find another campsite. Otherwise, 
they must stay here. 
The Night-Wight
The companions were right to be wary. A horror haunts 
these ruins, a Night-Wight. If the company lie down to 
sleep in the ruined square, then they are in danger. In the 
middle of the night, the Night-Wight creeps out from its 
lair and sneaks up on the adventurers.
Have the Night-Wight make a Dexterity (Stealth) 
check and compare the result to the Look-out’s passive 
Perception. If the wight wins, it automatically places one 
of the company in an enchanted slumber and carries him 
off to its lair.  Continue making  checks for the Night-Wight 
until the Look-out spots it or realises that he’s the only 
member of the company left!
Once a Look-out spots the Night-Wight (or if the Look-outs 
are the only members of the company left) then he realises 
that some of his companions are missing, and battle is 
joined.
Fighting the Night-Wight
Few of the weapons that the heroes wield will prove very 
effective in defeating the Night Wight. But the bright light 
of torches will do more harm than cold steel. You might 
foreshadow this by describing the wight as a thing of 
shadow, with seemingly little substance. It shies away from 
any fire that the companions have, and attacks with either 
its Wicked Spear, or its Spells of Despair. If it seems that 
any hero is trying to make torches it will viciously attack 
them with either its long spear or its Strangling Claws. 
Once the heroes begin to overwhelm it with torches, it will 
flee rather than face the bright light and burning flame.
The Wight’s Prisoners
Those kidnapped by the Wight are dragged away to the 
brook nearby. There, the wight submerges them in the 
muddy banks of the river, pushing them into boggy graves 
so that only the victims’ faces remain at the surface. They 
are entombed alive in the clinging mud.
Once battle is joined with the Wight, the victims may use 
their action in order to make a Wisdom saving throw in 
order to awaken. This starts at DC 14 and is reduced by 2 
at the end of a round. An awake hero may make a DC 10 
Strength (Athletics) check to escape the mud. Otherwise, 
the hero remains Restrained by the mud.
A hero who was buried in the mud is considered to be 
temporarily at Disadvantage when attacking, until he 
takes a round to scrape off the clinging, chilling grave-dirt.
After the Battle
If the company defeat the Night-Wight, then the next 
morning they can search for its treasure. A successful DC 
12 Intelligence (Investigation) check lets the company 
find the ancient remains of a warrior buried in the bog. 
Little remains save bones and rags, but there are a few 
gemstones in what must have once been a fine neck-torc: 
these gemstones are worth 100sp.
1

--- PAGE 27 ---
27
Night-Wight
A shadow came out of dark places far away...
The Night-Wight is a thing of shadow, haunting the 
remains of a warrior who once fell into corruption. It 
attacks using a wicked spear with a barbed head, and will 
resort to using its Visions of Torment if disarmed. 
Night-Wight
Medium undead
STR 
12 (+1)
DEX 
15 (+2)
CON 
16 (+3)
INT 
10 (+0)
WIS 
13 (+1)
CHA 
15 (+2)
Armour Class 14 (Wraith-like)
Hit Points 45 (6d8+18)
Speed 30 ft
Damage Resistances Non-magical bludgeoning, 
piercing and slashing
Damage Vulnerabilities Fire
Skills Perception +3, Stealth +4
Senses darkvision 60 ft, passive Perception 13
Languages Westron
Challenge 3 (700 XP
Craven. If the Night Wight starts its turn with 22 or less 
hit points, it must make a DC 10 Wisdom saving throw. 
On a failure, it is Frightened and must use its Dash or 
Disengage action to move away from any enemies. If 
movement is impossible, it will take the Dodge action.
Fear of Fire. The Night Wight is fearful of fire. If a 
torch or other flame comes within 10 feet of it, the 
Wight suffers Disadvantage on its attack rolls.
Actions
Wicked Spear. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +3 to 
hit, reach 5 ft or range 20/60 ft, one target. Hit: 6 (1d6+3) 
magical piercing damage or 7 (1d8+3) magical piercing 
damage if used with two hands to make a melee attack.
Strangling Claw. Melee Attack: +3 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 4 (1d6+1) magical slashing damage.
Spells of Despair. As an action, the Wight can force one 
target within 30 feet to make a Wisdom saving throw 
with the DC equal to 10 plus the target’s Shadow score. If 
the target fails the saving throw they become Frightened 
of the Wight until the end of its next turn.
Searching For The Caravan
After passing through the ruins of the town, the company 
enter the foothills of the Misty Mountains. The caravan 
should be nearby. Call for DC 10 Wisdom (Survival) 
checks  as the day progresses; if successful, the companions 
find Goblin-tracks, and later they encounter a pony that 
has obviously escaped its harness and fled in terror. The 
pony has a Goblin-arrow sticking out of its hind-quarters. 
A successful DC 10 Wisdom (Medicine) check lets a 
companion remove the arrow, which fortunately is not 
poisoned and did not inflict any permanent injury on 
the poor terrified creature. As twilight comes closer, the 
company spot a big bonfire on a nearby hilltop – they 
have found the caravan, and just in the nick of time! Dindy 
and his guards have taken refuge in an old ringfort on the 
hilltop, and the Goblins are coming...
 - Part Three - 
Battle at the Ringfort
The company has only a few minutes to make it to the 
ringfort and meet with the members of the caravan before 
battle is joined, so they had best make those minutes 
count!
The Ringfort
‘Fort’ is too grand a term – this old fortification consists 
of a ring-shaped earthen bank around the hilltop. There 
was once a small settlement here, possibly a watch on the 
pass or a shepherds’ cabin, but it has long since vanished 
leaving only a few stones as traces. The earthen bank 
is still in moderately good condition, and will give the 
characters an advantage when it comes to defence. There 
are only two easy approaches up to the ringfort, so the 
Goblins will have to come up those mountain paths, and 
as long as the company defends these approaches, they 
stand a good chance of holding the fort against the enemy. 
Characters manning the walls of the fort against foes 
outside have Advantage on their attacks. The walls also 
give half cover (+2AC) against enemies coming up the 
path. Characters blocking the two gaps into the fort do 
not gain these bonuses, but the gaps are so narrow that 
only one enemy can engage them at a time.
A successful DC 12 Intelligence (Investigation) check 
uncovers an old souterrain (an underground passage) 
that runs from the middle of the ringfort to a spot outside 
the walls. The passage is choked with roots and dirt, but 
Of Leaves & Stewed Hobbit
1/2
1/8

--- PAGE 28 ---
Wilderland Adventures
28
a companion could wriggle through with a successful DC 
12 Dexterity (Acrobatics) check. The passage is of no 
use as an escape route in this situation, as the Goblins see 
better in the dark and would chase any would-be escapees 
on the hillside, but the discovery of the passageway is 
important nonetheless. Firstly, the Goblins might try to 
creep up the passageway and attack from the defenders’ 
rear, so the adventurer may wish to block the entrance with 
heavy stones. Alternatively, a brave adventurer could use 
the passageway to sneak out of the ringfort when battle is 
joined, and attack the Goblins from behind.
The Caravan
There are five travellers in the ringfort. There is no time for 
proper introductions, so the caravan leader (Iwgar) hastily 
greets the company and explains the situation.
The Hobbit Dinodas Brandybuck: Poor Dindy is 
exhausted and terrified by his ordeal, and even the news 
that his brother sent the company to find him brings him 
little relief. He is polite, in the way that only a desperate, 
terrified Hobbit can be. (“I’m most grateful that you could 
stop in for tea! Very grateful indeed! But as we’ve got some 
uninvited guests coming, I do hope you’ll excuse me while 
I hide under these boxes!” ) It is clear that Dindy will be of 
little use in the coming battle, so Iwgar has ordered him to 
keep the fire in the middle of the ringfort blazing.
Iwgar Longleg: The caravan leader and guide, Iwgar is 
a Beorning who travelled west. He is cursed with a great 
wanderlust, and has even gone to see the Sea. He wears 
a cockle-shell in his hat. He led the caravan over the 
mountains, and is the best warrior and guide in the party. 
Unfortunately, a poisoned Goblin-arrow caught him in the 
flank last night, and he is clearly suffering from it. Unless 
a hero is able to prepare a poison antidote (either a DC 
20 Wisdom (Medicine) check or an appropriate ability), 
Igwar cannot fight. If he can, treat him as a Warrior 
(Loremaster’s Guide, page 71)
The Ringfort
1/4

--- PAGE 29 ---
29
Andy Blackthorn, Bill the Bowman, Tom Lumpyface: 
Three young men from Bree-land, in the West, hired to 
protect the caravan. None are experienced warriors, and 
they are all harrowed by the Goblin attack. They have all 
sustained some cuts and injuries, and are clearly very 
tired, but they can still fight. Treat them as Town Guards 
(Loremaster’s Guide, page 68).
Their Tale
Dinodas and his travelling companions were late leaving 
Bree. There are always delays when travelling, especially 
with a heavy load. They journeyed across the land 
towards the mountains without incident, and climbed 
up the slopes to the High Pass. As far as they knew, the 
mountains were still mostly free of Goblins, so they did 
not hasten, but instead took the easiest route through 
the pass. Two nights ago, Iwgar spotted a Goblin spying 
on them. Since then, they have been beset by Goblin 
attacks. The worst came last night. They managed to beat 
the creatures back, but lost their ponies and most of their 
supplies and trade goods. Fearing that they would not 
make it to safety if they stayed on the road, Iwgar headed 
to this easily-defended ringfort to fight. 
Their Plight
Now the travellers – and the companions – all face the 
same danger. This fort is the most defensible spot in the 
hills around here, and if they can hold it all night, then 
they can make their escape down the mountainside the 
next morning in the bright light of day. There are more 
Beorning warriors in the foothills, and the goblins 
will not dare pursue the caravan any farther east. The 
numbers of Goblins have increased each night since the 
first encounter – one on the first night, many more on the 
second, and Iwgar expects a whole host of them tonight. 
Already, in the gathering gloom, the companions can see 
shapes skulking out there.
Tactics
Iwgar’s plan is simple: to keep the fire in the middle of the 
ringfort burning, and to hold off the attackers for as long 
possible. The Goblins will mostly approach by the two easy 
paths up the hillside – Iwgar intended to split his forces 
between these two points, but now that the companions 
are here, they can take one side of the fort and he and the 
Breelanders will guard the other.
A successful DC 10 Intelligence (Shadow-lore) check 
confirms that this is a good plan, although the Goblins 
will probably send lightly armoured skirmishers around 
the side, and that it would be wise to dedicate one or two 
warriors to dealing with these attackers. It also suggests 
that making a run for it would be suicidal. 
The Enemy
From their vantage point on the ringfort walls, the 
companions can see Goblin-shapes sneaking through the 
dusk and hear the howling of wolves. There are lots of 
Goblins out there, mostly smaller scouts (Misty Mountain 
Goblins, see the Loremaster’s Guide, starting on page 
102), but a few bigger brutes (Orc Soldiers and Goblin 
Archers, see the Loremaster’s Guide pages 103 and 104) 
and Wolves. 
• 
The heroes will face one Orc Soldier for every 
companion, plus their leader Ubhurz, who does not 
join until at least one orc is slain..
• 
The Goblins and the Orcs are a Weak-willed Alliance. 
If Ubhurz is slain, all goblins automatically flee.
The Challenge
Before battle is joined, the enemy leader – a big Orc – 
shouts a threat to the defenders of the ringfort. 
“Rragh! Trapped in your little circle like rats in a grave! I 
am Ubhurz, and I am here to kill you – but if you throw out 
your swords and spears, and give up, then maybe Ubhurz 
will let some of you go!”
One of the Breelanders, young Andy Blackthorn, moves 
to throw his sword over the wall and surrender. The 
adventurers may deal with this as they wish; they might 
use a DC 13 Charisma (Persuasion) check to rally 
Andy’s spirit, or give him Inspiration, or issue a counter-
threat to Ubhurz with a DC 15 Charisma (Intimidation) 
check – or just decide the time for talking is over, and fire 
an arrow at the Orc! 
The Goblin Tactics
The Goblins’ plan of attack is a simple one – send a 
wave of sword-fodder to swarm the defenders and drive 
them back from the wall, and then the big Orcs follow up 
behind them. 
Of Leaves & Stewed Hobbit
1

--- PAGE 30 ---
Wilderland Adventures
30
If the company has not discovered the secret souterrain, 
then the Goblins find the outer entrance as they advance 
up the hill. The Goblins then send four of their number 
through the passage, to attack the company from behind 
at the worst possible moment (or, alternatively, they kidnap 
Dinodas via the passage – see The Kidnapping, below). 
Battle!
With a roar of vile battle-cries and a hail of Goblin-arrows, 
battle is joined. The goblins toss their spears at Iwgar and 
the Breelanders and the Orc Soldiers do the same for the 
heroes. Then they swarm up and over the dirt walls and 
along the paths, attacking with their bent swords!
Battle Events
The Loremaster should apply the following battle events at 
appropriate moments.
A Rain of Arrows
Goblins outside the ring fort keep firing arrows over the 
banks. These attacks are not aimed at any particular target; 
they are firing to keep the defenders off balance.  Each 
round of combat, pick a player character at random and 
roll an attack on him (+3 to hit, 5 (1d6+2) piercing damage).
The Wolves Beyond The Walls
The howling wolves do not participate in the battle unless 
one of the company slips out via the secret passage. 
Goblin Skirmishers
If the company have not secured the secret passage, or if 
the Loremaster wishes to make the fight harder, then a few 
Goblins manage to climb over the steeper sides of the hill 
and climb over the banks. These attackers swarm in and 
attack the companions from behind, or else cause other 
problems like kicking over the bonfire and plunging the 
ringfort into darkness. 
Dread Ubhurz
The last Orc to join the fray is dread Ubhurz himself, the 
Orc leader. He too scales the side walls like the Goblin 
skirmishers, then charges into the rear of the company 
wielding his mighty scimitar. Ubhurz is a huge Orc of the 
Misty Mountains, an infamous hunter and mercenary. 
Unlike the other Goblins in this host, he does not make 
his lair in the caves nearby – he travels the mountains in 
search of blood and gold. Ubhurz is an Orc Guard (page 
104 of the Loremaster’s Guide ).
Victory!
If Dread Ubhurz is defeated, the remaining Goblins – if 
any – flee the hilltop in terror. 
The Kidnapping
As the Goblins go shrieking into the night, and the survivors 
bind their wounds, the company hears a muffled cry of 
alarm. A pair of Goblin stragglers crept into the ringfort

--- PAGE 31 ---
31
and grabbed Dinodas Brandybuck! The unfortunate 
Hobbit is half-way down the mountainside before the 
companions notice he is gone. 
The company can chase the Goblins, but before they reach 
Dinodas, the Goblins duck into a cave mouth and vanish 
into the tunnels. 
Averting the Kidnapping
Some Loremasters prefer to let everything be ruled by 
the whims of the dice, and always give the players a 
chance to stop their foes from acting. The advantage 
of this approach is that the players never feel like their 
fate is out of their hands; the downside is that if the 
players are quick and lucky, they can rescue Dinodas 
before the Goblins get underground. 
If you favour this approach, then players who possess 
Distinctive Qualities like Keen-eyed, Quick of 
Hearing or Wary might be allowed to make a DC 
20 Wisdom (Perception) check to spot the Goblins 
grabbing the poor Hobbit. Then heroes who are 
Nimble, Reckless or Swift might be allowed to make 
a DC 20 Strength (Athletics) check to sprint down 
the hillside and reach the kidnappers before they enter 
the cave.
If the companions do thwart the kidnapping, skip Parts 
Four and Five and move right on to Part Six! 
 – Part Four – 
Into The Mountains 
After the fight, Iwgar and the Breelanders are all too badly 
injured and exhausted to pursue Dinodas. They beg the 
company to rescue the Hobbit. 
If the company did not see Dinodas’s abduction, a 
successful DC 10 Intelligence (Investigation) check 
lets a hero find Goblin tracks going into a nearby cave. 
Iwgar knows these mountains are riddled with tunnels 
and caves. He suspects that the Goblins are heading for 
one of their underground halls with the loot they stole 
from the caravan the night before. He doubts the Goblins 
will return to the surface tonight, not after the bloody 
nose they got in the Battle of the Ringfort, but unless the 
companions rescue Dinodas immediately, the poor Hobbit 
will doubtless perish.
The Tunnels
There’s nothing to do except follow the Goblins. At the 
back of the cave is a narrow, noisome passage that winds 
steeply down into the rock. Rivulets of icy-cold water make 
every footstep treacherous, and the whole place smells of 
bat droppings. Climbing down the passage leads down to a 
tunnel that slopes more gently downwards and heads west 
towards the roots of the mountains – although working 
out that they are facing West requires a a successful DC 13 
Wisdom (Survival) check. 
It would be very, very easy to get lost down here, but in 
the distance, the companions can hear grotesque singing 
echoing up the tunnel. The Goblins are marching back 
through the tunnels to their Goblin-hall, and they are 
singing as they go.
The Goblin Song
Goblins live down in the caves,
Ain’t had nothing to eat for days!
Empty bellies, sharpened teeth,
Sharp blades in a blackened sheath!
Goblins are a courteous folk
Always polite and real well spoke!
After a fight when we’re the winner
Bring the foe back home for dinner!
Dwarves is tough and mostly beard.
Elves are stringy and taste weird.
In better times we eat Man-flesh
Smoke it, cook it or eat it fresh!
Put the Hobbit in the pot!
Eat him up, we’ll have the lot!
Bring him to the Goblin feast!
Bring him to the Goblin feast!
Of Leaves & Stewed Hobbit

--- PAGE 32 ---
Wilderland Adventures
32
Journeys in the Dark
Travelling underground can be more or less dangerous 
than a journey on the surface, depending on where you 
are. When passing through Moria, for example, the 
Fellowship travelled forty miles underground between 
the evening of the 13th of January and the afternoon 
of the 15th – and that included their stop by Balin’s 
tomb, Gandalf taking some time to decide which way 
to go, and the battle with the Balrog! However, Moria 
was in its day a great thoroughfare between West and 
East, and travelling though it was comparatively 
easy in terms of terrain. The Dwarrowdelf is full of 
long straight passages and staircases. Adventurers in 
Moria can travel quickly – the problem, of course, is 
not getting lost!
By contrast, natural caves are extremely difficult 
terrain. With no light, no sure footing, many 
opportunities to get lost and lots of narrow passages to 
squeeze through, a company would be lucky to travel 
more than a few miles for every arduous day they spent 
underground. 
Darkness and Light
Having a good source of light is vitally important when 
travelling underground. A companion caught in the pitch 
darkness is at a great disadvantage. Luckily, Iwgar can 
supply the company with torches. There are two torches 
for every hero, but they do not last indefinitely, and can be 
extinguished accidentally.
The Journey Through the Tunnels
The Goblin hall is only a few miles away, but it still takes 
the company the better part of a day to make their way 
through the tunnels. 
First, the company’s Scouts must pass a DC 15 Intelligence 
(Investigation) check to follow the Goblins. If these 
tests are failed, then the company is lost for a day in the 
tunnels. Next, Due to the terrifying conditions, each hero 
must make a DC 18 Wisdom saving throw, gaining 1 
Shadow on a failure.. Finally, all companions must make 
a DC 16 Wisdom (Survival) check as they trudge through 
the echoing passage. Anyone who fails gains a level of 
Exhaustion. If more than half the company fail, pick one of 
the following events.
Event Suggestions
Getting Stuck 
The tunnel gets narrower, and narrower, and narrower as 
it branches off several times. In places, the companions 
have to crawl or squeeze through little gaps. The Guide 
must make a DC 13 Intelligence (Investigation) check 
to select the correct tunnel branch. Otherwise, any heroes 
wearing heavy armour find themselves getting stuck and 
gain a level of Exhaustion as they struggle. 
Falling Rocks 
The Scout must open a blocked passageby making a DC 
13 Strength (Athletics) check. If he fails, he accidentally 
triggers a small rock-fall and everyone in the company is 
pelted with stones, losing 1d6 Hit points. Worse, if the Scout 
rolled a natural 1, they are buried alive and must be dug 
out by their companions, slowing the company more.
Cave Spiders 
The company passes into a section of caves where huge 
Cave Spiders lurk. The company Huntsman may make 
a DC 13 Wisdom (Perception) check to recognise signs 
of the impending danger; if he fails, then the company 
blunders into spider-webs and are caught. The Cave 
spiders are similar to the Attercops of Mirkwood (page 105 
of the Loremaster’s Guide ).
Wandering Troll
The Look-out hears something huge moving through the 
tunnel ahead. A Cave-troll is coming this way, blindly 
snuffling as it shambles through the mountain. The 
company can fight the monster, or – much wiser – they 
can hide if the look-out gave them enough warning. First, 
the Look-out makes a DC 10 Wisdom (Perception) check, 
then everyone in the company must make Dexterity 
(Stealth) checks to hide. The DC for the stealth tests is 8 if 
the company have adequate warning, and 13 if they do not. 
If anyone fails the stealth test, the troll spots them. 
Tap-Tap-Tap 
Ranging ahead in the darkness, the company hear a noise 
echoing through the rock from far away and far below. 
1

--- PAGE 33 ---
33
Tap-tap-tap, it says, tap-tap-tap. The noise is unsettling, 
and everyone must make an immediate DC 12 Wisdom 
saving throw to avoid gaining a point of shadow.
Treacherous Footing
The tunnel opens up into a chasm. A raging underground 
river plunges into this pit, falling into the uttermost deeps 
of the world. The tunnel continues on the far side of the 
chasm, and a narrow ledge runs along the opposite wall 
of the chasm to the waterfall. The company can – if they 
dare – clamber along this water-slick ledge to continue 
their journey. A wise Guide will advise the travellers to 
rope themselves together, and then have the strongest 
companion make the first crossing. The first crossing 
requires passing a DC 10 Dexterity (Acrobatics) check. 
Failure. Failure means the adventurer falls into the depths 
and perishes, unless he is roped to other companions (if a 
hero is lost this way, then all his companions must pass a 
a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or gain one Shadow point 
for the distressing experience - see Anguish on page 181 of 
the Player’s Guide.
Goblin Sentinels
At the end of their journey, the companions arrive at a 
network of caves where the Goblins have clearly made 
themselves at home – judging by the raucous singing and 
the smell, there are lots of Orcs up ahead! The map on 
page 34 shows the layout of the caves.
Watching the cave entrance (map key no. 1) is a pair of 
Orc Soldiers (page 103 of the Loremaster’s Guide ). The 
Orcs have a bottle of fine wine from the vineyards of the 
Southfarthing that was stolen from Dindy’s caravan and 
are passing it back and forth between them and singing a 
filthy song about dancing bears. The companions need to 
deal with the Orcs without raising the alarm. 
• 
Ambushing the Sentinels: The guards are drunk, 
so it is easy to take them by surprise. The DC for 
Dexterity (Stealth) checks to ambush them is 5, 
reflecting the goblins’ inattention. The Orcs try to 
sound the alarm immediately instead of fighting, so 
the adventurers need to knock the guards out before 
they can act.
• 
Tricking the Sentinels: A clever adventurer can 
exploit the guards’ drunkenness, either by disguising 
the party as an Orc patrol, or by convincing the 
guards to fight each other with a DC 20 Charisma 
(Deception) check.
• 
Sneaking Past: These guards are not very attentive, 
and can be avoided with a a DC 5 Dexterity (Stealth) 
check.
Alarums!
If a Goblin shouts out a warning, then the alarm is 
raised. If the Goblins do sound the alarm, then the 
rest of the tribe come staggering out of the feast. The 
Goblins are drunk and merry, and armed with dinner 
forks and steak-knives (1 piercing or slashing damage, 
respectively) instead of bows and spears, but that does 
not make them any less dangerous. Quite the contrary, 
in fact! The Goblins are hungry, and will try to eat 
the companions alive! Each goblin now has the Biter 
shadow ability, see page 118 of the Loremaster’s 
Guide. There are countless Goblins in the feast-hall, so 
standing and fighting is not an option. The company 
might be able to carve their way through the crowd to 
the chief, kill him, steal the key, and then escape, but 
they will be hard pressed to do so. Stealth and burglary 
are by far the better options here.
- Part Five - 
Prisoner of the Goblins
The first turning after the guard post brings the 
companions to Dinodas’s prison (map key no. 2). As jail 
cells under the mountain go, it is a very comfortable one. 
The Goblins have stacked most of the provisions stolen 
from the caravan in this room, which also serves as the 
Goblins’ kitchen and larder. There is a roaring fire with 
a spit and a stove on it, lots of stolen pots and pans, a 
spice-rack, roasting-tins and egg-timers, knives and forks 
and skewers and spoons and all the rest of the kitchen 
implements that were supposed to end up at the Easterly 
Inn. Meat sizzles and roasts in a dozen different ways. 
In the middle of it all sits a very miserable Dinodas, busily 
chopping potatoes. Even the arrival of the companions to 
rescue him does not lift his spirits. “It’s very kind of you to 
Of Leaves & Stewed Hobbit

--- PAGE 34 ---
Wilderland Adventures
34
try to rescue me,” he says, “but I fear it’s quite impossible. 
Look!” He holds up his hairy foot, and the companions 
see that he is chained to the wall.  “The chief Goblin locked 
me in here. They demand that I cook them a feast... and I 
think I’m the pudding!” 
• 
The Chain: The chain was not forged by Goblins. 
Any character with the Old Lore specialty, or a Dwarf, 
can tell this is ancient Mannish work, and the chain 
is made from forged steel, unbreakable without the 
proper tools. Picking the lock is equally impossible; 
the only way to escape the chain is to unlock it, and 
the chief Goblin has the only key.
If the companions suggest to Dinodas that they cut his foot 
off, he faints on the spot, and can only be revived with 
a strong cup of tea, a sit down and a successful DC 10 
Wisdom (Medicine) check.
Cooking Time! 
As the characters are speaking to Dinodas, a Goblin voice 
roars up the tunnel,  “Where’s our dinner? ‘Urry up, we’re 
starvin’!” If the companions are to avoid raising the alarm, 
they need to prepare a feast for the Goblins. Dinodas can do 
most of the work, but anyone with the Cooking specialty 
can help and keep the Goblins from noticing the intruders. 
The Goblin Hall 
1. Guard Posts: There are two guards standing watch at 
each of these posts, just like the two the company passed 
on the way in. Most of the other guards are not quite as 
sloshed as the first two, though!
2. The Larder: Where poor Dinodas is chained. The small 
alcoves along the wall contain the gnawed remains of 
some other prisoners.
The Goblins Hall
2

--- PAGE 35 ---
35
3. Wine Cellar: Where the beer and wine from the 
caravan is stored.
4. Feast-Hall: The main chamber, supported by several 
rock pillars (see page 96 of the Loremaster’s Guide). See 
The Feast, below.
5. Goblin-Caves: Small caves where the Goblins live, full 
of filth and chewed bones and stolen trinkets. These areas 
have Low ceilings (see page 95 of the Loremaster’s Guide). 
Most Goblins are in the feast-hall.
6. Smithy: Where the Goblins forge their knives and 
arrow-heads. 
7. Goblin Chief’s Chamber: The Goblin chief resides 
here, and here is where he keeps the best of his loot. 
There is a four-poster bed covered in sheep-hides, a 
fine shield stolen from some dead mountaineer and a 
Dwarf-made mirror so the chief can admire his toad-like 
features. The chamber is guarded by three Orc Soldiers, 
who are more vigilant than the other guards. They are 
not drunk, but are instead chewing on the thigh-bone of 
one of the caravan’s ponies. 
8. Goblin Treasure Hoard: A small pile of silver and 
gold coins, ranging from crudely-made Goblin coins to 
ingots of Dwarven silver, as well as a few other ill-gotten 
treasures; as a whole, it is worth 200 silver. 
The Feast
Goblins are naturally wicked creatures. In any situation, 
they instinctively know the best way to be cruel and 
hurtful. Mockery and nasty tricks come to them without a 
moment’s thought. So, when they captured a Hobbit, their 
minds instantly settled on a plan to mock him. 
In the feast-hall, the Goblins have erected long trestle tables 
for their feast. All the Orcs have napkins, wine glasses, 
fine silverware, and are behaving like Hobbit gentlemen 
at a dinner (or rather, how Goblins imagine gentle-hobbits 
behave). They have looted Dinodas’s wardrobe, and some 
are now wearing torn waist-coasts, burst breeches and 
even a top-hat (a gift from Dinodas’s uncle). At the head of 
the table, the Goblin Chief sits on his throne, giving self-
important speeches and toasting everything from Mount 
Gundabad to the warts on his toes. 
• 
The key to Dinodas’s chain is in the Goblin Chief’s 
pocket. He takes it out and toys with it every few 
minutes when giving a speech. 
More Meat! 
As soon as the Goblins devour one course, they want 
more! Every few minutes, a few of the more sober Goblins 
stumble down to the larder and pick up whatever dishes 
Dinodas has cooked. Some of this food even makes it back 
to the feast-hall. Clever adventurers could intercept the 
Goblins in small groups as they go in search of more food, 
thereby fighting the Goblin horde in bite-sized chunks 
instead of all-at-once.
More Drink! 
The caravan was laden down with barrels of beer and 
bottles of wine from the Shire, and the Goblins are 
drinking their way through them. They have hacked 
open some of the barrels and watered the beer down 
shamefully. Only the Goblin Chief’s chosen warriors 
get the good beer and the wine. If the companions want 
to trick the Goblins into getting even drunker, they can 
swap the watered-down beer for full-strength barrels or 
wine. Drunken Goblins wobble over to the wine cellar for 
refills every few minutes.
Of Leaves & Stewed Hobbit

--- PAGE 36 ---
Wilderland Adventures
36
Rescuing Dinodas
To save the Hobbit, the company need to obtain the key 
from the Goblin Chief, free Dinodas, then escape the 
way they came. Here are three of the likely methods for 
obtaining the key; the players may invent other schemes 
to save the day.
Stealing The Key
Stealing the key is, on its own, an impossible task. The 
companions need to distract the Goblin Chief. They could 
get the chief drunk by tampering with his wine-cup, or cook 
a meal so outrageously heavy that the chief gets sleepy 
after eating it, and then steal the key from his sleeping 
chambers. They could cause a distraction, say by starting 
a fight or demanding that the chief give an after-dinner 
speech, or disguise one of their number as a Goblin, so he 
can get close enough to pick-pocket the chief.
• 
Stealing the key requires two Dexterity tests (Stealth 
to sneak up, Sleight of Hand to steal the key) at a DC 
of 10 to 15 depending on how cleverly the companions 
have arranged their scheme.
Sabotaging The Feast
An adventurer would never stoop to using poison, and 
anyway, Goblins happily eat far worse things than poison. 
The company could sabotage the feast by making the food 
so rich it puts the Goblins to sleep, or mixing in strong 
spices to ruin their digestion. They could sow dissent 
among the Goblins by putting all the meat on one side of 
a roasted goat, leaving nothing but skin and gristle on the 
other, and waiting until the Goblins start fighting over the 
unfair portions. They could break out the strong wine and 
get all the Goblins drunk, or distract the Goblins by rolling 
the barrels of wine down the sloping exit tunnel nearby.
Surprise Attack
Militant companions can take advantage of the situation 
by charging into the middle of the feast and attacking 
the Goblin Chief. The company automatically starts with 
Advantage and have at least one full round of attacks 
before the Goblins fight back.
• 
Most of the Goblins here are Misty Mountain Goblins 
(see page 102 of the Loremaster’s Guide), with a few 
Orc Soldiers (see page 103 of the Loremaster’s Guide). 
The Goblin Chief himself is an Orc Chieftain (page 
103 of the Loremaster’s Guide) and likely beyond 
the strength of the company to defeat after they have 
dealt with his guards.
Escape!
Once the companions have the key, they can free Dinodas 
and escape the Goblin Hall. The journey back through the 
caves is much easier, and within a few hours the company 
emerges back on the hillside in the bright sunlight.
Epilogue – Back To The Inn
If they survived, Iwgar and the Breelanders were not 
idle while they waited. They found the scattered ponies, 
repaired the carts, and loaded up the supplies that could 
be salvaged. Once reunited with the company, the whole 
caravan can depart again. The road lies straight east, 
and the going is easy. Ten days after rescuing Dindy, 
the company reaches the Easterly Inn and the warmest 
welcome east of the mountains.
Dody throws a feast in the company’s honour. Dindy is 
shaken by his ordeal, but a few days of good food and soft 
beds soon put him right. If the company managed to steal 
some of the Goblins’ treasure, they can spend a few coins at 
the inn buying food and drink for the Beornings and visiting 
Dwarves, and so improve their reputation in the local area. 
The loss of some of the supplies means that Dindy will have 
to return to the West next year to purchase replacements. 
If any of the company wish to travel with him, they can 
find ready employment as caravan guards or guides. For 
now, though, the beer is good and the company is merry 
at the Easterly Inn, a little outpost of the Shire in the Wild!
Fellowship Phase
If the company spend a Fellowship Phase completing the 
Open New Sanctuary undertaking at the Easterly Inn, then 
they may count the inn as a Sanctuary in future adventures. 
However, if they do not, then the inn falls prey to the 
growing darkness of Wilderland in future years. By 2951, 
the inn is destroyed by Orcs out of Southern Mirkwood. 
Outposts like the Easterly Inn exist on a knife’s edge in 
Wilderland, and it is only through the actions of heroes 
like the companions that they can survive and prosper.  
3

--- PAGE 37 ---
37
- Kinstrife - 
& Dark Tidings 
For Heroes of level 3 or 4
• 
When: The company may undertake this quest at any 
time from the year 2946 onwards. 
• 
Where: The adventure begins on the Great River 
or one of its tributaries, within a short distance of 
Beorn’s Hall. From there, the adventurers travel down 
the river and search the Beornings’ territory for an 
escaped prisoner.
• 
What: The company finds the bodies of two slain 
Beornings in a boat on the river. Investigating their 
deaths brings the company to Beorn’s Hall, where 
Beorn asks them to recapture the prisoner. Travelling 
to a nearby village, the companions discover that the 
villain murdered a kinsman and has now fled into 
the woods, where he has fallen in with evil men from 
the South.
• 
Why: Beorn himself asks the adventurers to bring 
the villain to justice. For a Beorning, capturing the 
escaped prisoner is a matter of honour.
• 
Who: The prisoner was a young warrior named 
Oderic, and his crime was one of passion. He 
accidentally killed his kinsman Rathfic in a quarrel 
over a woman. Now, Oderic has fled into the woods 
and joined a band of outlaws, who plan to attack 
the land of the Beornings. Sorrow is piled on sorrow 
and tragedy breeds more tragedy as the curse of the 
kinstrife works its baleful influence.
Adventuring Phase
This adventure is divided into nine parts.
Part One - A Funeral Boat
The company happens upon a boat that has run aground 
on the banks of the Great River. The corpses of two 
Beorning men lie within, both pierced by many Orc-
arrows. The companions discover that there was a third 
man in the boat, a prisoner, and that the Beornings were 
warriors bringing him back for trial.
Part Two - Beorn’s Hall
The company travels to Beorn’s House and delivers the 
news. The next morning Beorn confirms their suspicions 
and asks them to find this escaped prisoner and bring 
him to justice. The companions may choose to wait a few 
hours before beginning the chase in order to pay their 
respects to the fallen.
Part Three - The Chase
The company travels south for several days, looking for 
signs of the prisoner.
Part Four - Kinstrife
The trail leads to the village of Stonyford, where the 
company learns the tale of Oderic’s crime and his strange 
history. They question the witnesses, and learn that 
Oderic returned to the village a few nights ago, and may 
still be nearby.
Part Five - The Chase Continued
The hunt brings the companions across the Great River 
into wilder lands.
Part Six - Ill-Favoured Men
The company finds signs that a band of outlaws is nearby, 
and learns that Oderic has fallen in with them. By spying 
on the outlaws, they see that Oderic is guiding the outlaws 
– but has he turned traitor, or is he being forced to serve 
them?
Part Seven - The Outlaw Boy
The companions recapture Oderic, either by appealing to 
his better nature, by trickery, or by force of arms.
Part Eight - Grim Tidings
With Oderic’s aid or without it, the company must choose 
what to do about the outlaw band.
Part Nine - Judgement at the Carrock
The company returns to Beorn’s Carrock and the player-
heroes speak at Oderic’s trial.
Kinstrife & Dark Tidings

--- PAGE 38 ---
Wilderland Adventures
38
– Part One – 
A Funeral Boat
While travelling along the Great River in the proximity 
of Beorn’s house, either on the shore or by boat, the 
company’s Look-out spots another boat that has run 
aground in the thick rushes and weeds on the east side 
of the stream. Flies buzz around two slumped shapes 
that lie over the edge of the boat, and a limp arm trails in 
the water. As the company come closer, they can see the 
black shafts of arrows sticking out of both corpses and the 
frame of the boat.
Foreshadowing
You can make the discovery of the boat creepier by 
describing it in the right way. Talk about carrion-
crows circling overhead, or describe how the arm 
of one of the dead men beats against the hull of the 
boat as the current buffets it, thumping like the 
sound of a drum. Maybe the company come upon the 
boat in the twilight, where the gathering darkness 
makes everything uncertain and ghostly, or perhaps 
a character with a Virtue like Woeful Foresight, 
Night-Goer or Natural Watchfulness sees signs of the 
Orc-attack before the boat is discovered.
Investigating, they find:
• 
The boat is a simple wooden one, and the dead men 
were clearly making their way up the Anduin. They 
have few supplies left, suggesting they were nearly 
at their destination (a DC 13 Intelligence (Riddle) 
check yields the above information).
• 
The two bodies are both those of male Beornings. 
From their weapons and clothing, they were warriors 
of good standing and both of them have silver cloak-
pins in the shape of a bear’s head. Any Beorning, or 
a hero that makes a DC 10 Intelligence (Traditions) 
check, recognises these badges as being of a sort given 
to men trusted by Beorn. They serve as his thanes, his 
wardens and watchmen.
• 
A Beorning might recognise one of the dead men as 
Merovech the Mighty, one of the first warriors to 
pledge allegiance to Beorn. Merovech was one of 
Beorn’s must trusted allies. Merovech’s duty was 
to travel from village to village, hearing cases and 
resolving disputes. Furthermore, in cases of serious 
crimes, it was Merovech’s duty to bring the accused to 
Beorn for justice.
• 
A successful DC 10 Intelligence (Shadow-lore) check 
identifies the arrows as Orc-arrows. 
• 
Searching the boat lets the companions find several 
lengths of rope cut jaggedly with a blade. By making 
a DC 10 Intelligence (Riddle) check, heroes can 
1

--- PAGE 39 ---
39
deduce that someone was tied up in the boat, and 
escaped by cutting their bonds and jumping into 
the river. Merovech’s sword is missing — maybe the 
prisoner took it with him as he fled.
• 
If the companions search the west bank of the river 
with a successful DC 10 Intelligence (Investigation) 
check, they come upon the remains of two Orcs lying 
in the mud. Both Orcs were impaled on the same 
spear! Merovech must have thrown his spear across 
the breadth of the river with enough force to punch 
clean through one Orc and kill another one behind 
the first. That was a mighty throw indeed.
Beorn’s house is not too far away from this spot on the 
river-bank. Any Beorning will know, or a successful 
Wisdom DC12 (Traditions) check will reveal, that the 
right thing to do is to bring the bodies of his thanes to 
Beorn. The easiest thing to do is to use the boat as a 
makeshift bier, and carry the bodies in it. 
Alternatively, they can bury the bodies, mark the graves, 
and just bring the bear-pins as tokens to Beorn.
Ignoring the Dead
An unworthy band of adventurers, or a party already 
on a quest, might decide that the fate of some dead 
Beornings is none of their concern and ignore the 
boat. If you want to gently nudge the players into 
investigating the boat, then just have one of the 
companions suffer from nightmares about being 
attacked by Orcs while boating on the Anduin. A few 
nights of guilty, broken sleep should be enough to 
prompt the companion into visiting Beorn. Another 
possibility is that the companions go straight after 
the escaped prisoner, and do not bother visiting 
Beorn’s house. If they do so, skip to Part Three 
immediately. 
- Part Two - 
Beorn’s Hall 
The hall of Beorn is a day’s easy walk from the river, 
although the company may be weighed down with the 
burden of the dead. In the middle of the afternoon, the 
companions find themselves walking across vast patches 
of clover of different colours; the air is fragrant with the 
flowers’ sweet scents and is droning with the sound of 
dozens of large bees. Several homesteads can be seen to 
the north and south, the residences of those who have 
come to live under Beorn’s protection. 
By sunset, the company arrives in sight of an ancient belt 
of mighty oak trees; beyond it rises the high thorny hedge 
that surrounds Beorn’s Hall. A tall and wide wooden gate 
opens in the thorn-hedge to the north, beyond which a 
wide track leads south towards Beorn’s house and the 
surrounding outbuildings. 
Beyond the Gate
If the company has chosen to carry the dead Beornings 
with them, when they push open the heavy creaking 
gate and start making their way towards the house of 
Beorn, they feel as if they were returning home after 
a lengthy absence. Their spirits feel uplifted, and 
even the bodies of the Beornings seem suddenly easier 
to carry – if they turn to inspect the bodies they are 
surprised by the expressions on their faces: their facial 
features are no longer twisted by pain and suffering, 
but composed and seemingly at peace, as if they were 
simply asleep. The companions feel the bonds of mutual 
friendship that ties together their company reinforced 
by the experience: each hero who is not already Inspired 
gains Inspiration.
The company is met along the track by dogs, who sniff them 
and bark excitedly at first, but then grow momentarily 
quiet as they notice the burden carried by the adventurers. 
These dogs knew and loved Merovech, and start howling 
mournfully once they realise he is dead. The adventurers 
are accompanied by the wailing dogs until they reach the 
courtyard outside Beorn’s hall – a long, low building with 
several wings and out-houses. Bees buzz sleepily as the 
dusk sets it. Beorn himself sits on the porch of his house, 
whittling a piece of wood. Observant characters notice that 
he is not using a knife to carve the wood – his fingernails 
are tougher than oak.
Kinstrife & Dark Tidings

--- PAGE 40 ---
Wilderland Adventures
40
Encountering Beorn
The companions are starting at a disadvantage – they are 
bringing bad news, and that is never the best way to start 
a conversation. By far the safest thing to do is to deliver 
the bodies, explain what happened, and wait for Beorn to 
decide what to do. Failing to meet Beorn’s expectations or, 
worse, demanding a reward is unwise.
Motivation
Beorn wants an honest, direct account of what happened, 
not weasel-words and guesses. He just wants the facts. 
Expectations
+2: I will be shown respect without flattery, courtesy 
without honeyed words
+1: The customs of the Beornings are to be respected. 
(Specifically, he expects that the characters brought the 
bodies of the dead Beornings with them, as opposed to 
just taking the bear-pins and burying the bodies.)
-1: Strangers are not to be trusted. (Beorn distrusts Elves, 
Dwarves, and Men from lands he does not know like 
Rohan or Gondor).
-2: The dead will not be left to the crows. (If the 
characters brought the bear-pins and didn’t even stop to 
bury the bodies.)
Introduction
Beorn brings the company into his hall and bids them sit 
down on benches on either side of the long table, while he 
settles his massive frame into an equally massive wooden 
chair. Beorn is a giant of a man, dressed in a woollen tunic 
tied with a simple belt. He wears no jewellery or silver to 
mark his high standing, and the axe at his side is a plain, 
unadorned weapon, notched and scraped with a lifetime 
of use. The only sign that he is a great leader of men and 
not a lone woodsman is the fact that his hair and flowing 
black beard are now combed. Those who knew Beorn 
of old notice a few flecks of grey in his beard, although 
whether this is due to the advance of age or worry over his 
new responsibilities is impossible to tell.
If a company spokesman makes a brief introduction of the 
company, then gets onto more important matters, call for 
a DC 15 Intelligence (Traditions) check. If other heroes 
wish to add to the formal introduction, Beorn grows 
visibly impatient. 
Interaction
The interaction with Beorn is divided into four sections 
– telling the tale, the exchange of news, dinner, and 
arrangements for the night.
2

--- PAGE 41 ---
41
Telling the Tale
Beorn asks for one companion to describe what they saw 
at the river. The difficulty for this test is based on how the 
player roleplays; a clear, organised account adds a +1 
modifier to the Final Audience Check. If the hero instead 
spends too much time guessing, speculation or hiding 
information from Beorn, a -1 modifier to the check is 
applied instead. Beorn is troubled by the tale. 
“Orcs so close to my house – they were either greatly 
daring, or very, very foolish. Either way, they have killed 
my men, and that I will not allow. I sent Merovech south, 
to the other villages along the Great River. I told him to 
sort out arguments and make sure all was well. I guess, 
from the sounds of it, that he and Odo were bringing a 
prisoner back to me for judgement.”
Beorn shrugs his hairy shoulders and then continues. 
“I never wanted to be a ruler of men, but if they choose 
to follow me, then they must keep to my laws, and them 
that break my laws must come before me for a trial at the 
Carrock.”
He then asks about Merovech’s purse of silver. Beorn 
gave Merovech a purse of silver coins when he left on his 
journey – did the company find it? The purse was already 
gone when they arrived, taken by the escaped prisoner, 
but the companions do not know this. Beorn takes any 
Beornings or Woodmen at their word, but any other 
strangers must pass a DC 15 Charisma (Persuasion) 
check to give a convincing protestation of honesty: 
• 
If a character fails at the roll, Beorn frowns and looks 
at him suspiciously, and any further check attempted 
by the same character will be considered a failure 
(without the player knowing it), as Beorn now thinks 
the companion might be a thief and a liar.
Exchange of News
Next, Beorn asks the company for news of the wider 
world, and offers his own stories in exchange. The heroes 
can gain a further +1 modifier to the Final Audience Check 
by telling stories of fighting Orcs or other creatures of the 
Shadow. Alternatively, if they tell amusing tales of the 
Hobbits at the Easterly Inn they might receive a +1 bonus 
instead.
For his part, Beorn relates that he has been troubled 
lately by news of Orcs crossing his lands from the east, 
coming out of Southern Mirkwood and making for the 
Misty Mountains. Some travellers claimed that the 
growing strength of the Free Peoples has driven the Orcs 
out of their old hiding places and forced them to flee 
Wilderland, but Beorn does not think they are so lucky, 
nor so strong. Something else is behind the movements of 
these Orcs. (This foreshadows the adventure A Darkness 
in the Marshes on page 77). 
Dinner
“All this talking is hungry work!” declares Beorn. He claps 
his hands, a door at the back of the hall opens, and in 
comes a whole flock of sheep and several shaggy hounds. 
The sheep have trays of food on their backs, and the dogs 
can stand on their hind legs to serve their master. The 
food consists of fresh-baked bread, a stew of herbs and 
vegetables, mead, and then honey-cakes for dessert. 
The companions are joined at dinner by other Beornings 
coming from the nearby homesteads. They have been 
warned of the recent events, and have come to pay their 
respects to the dead. As wooden drinking-bowls are raised 
in toast, tales are told of Merovech, Odo and other famous 
Beornings. 
Kinstrife & Dark Tidings

--- PAGE 42 ---
Wilderland Adventures
42
The heroes are part of the wake, and might steer from 
becoming too grim or mournful. If not, then some begin 
to weep and other stare glumly into their mead-bowls as 
everyone remembers the dead. If this occurs, add a -1 
modifier to the Final Audience Check.. 
As the feast ends and people retire to bed, Beorn stands 
and declares that he must go and think. “What is to be 
done? What is to be done?” he mutters to himself. Call for 
a final Audience check of Intelligence (traditions) from 
one of the player characters; if that character succeeds, 
he or she knows that the thing to do is step back and say 
nothing, and let Beorn come to his own decisions. 
Arrangements for the Night 
If the companions haven’t angered their host, Beorn 
offers them beds in his hall. Otherwise, he stalks out the 
door at nightfall, and one of the other Beornings tells the 
characters they can sleep in the stables. The companions 
can raise a fuss about this treatment if they wish with a 
DC 15 Charisma (Persuasion) check; if they succeed, 
then the Beornings let them sleep in the hall. If they fail, 
then one of Beorn’s wonderful horses closes the barn door 
in their faces, and they have to sleep outside. 
During the night, wherever the company sleeps, they 
hear the noise of some tremendous animal growling and 
snuffling somewhere by the house of Beorn. Before they 
can do something about it, the sound swiftly dies away.
• 
Any hero forced to sleep outside must pass a DC 15 
Constitution saving throw. Adventurers who fail 
this saving throw sleep horribly and gain one level of 
Exhaustion.
The Next Day
The following morning finds Beorn in a much better 
mood. One of his dogs leads the characters back to his 
hall, where they find the big man happily making toast 
and cheese for breakfast. A dozen Orc-helms lie piled on 
the table; anyone who examines one notices that it is 
dented as if struck with immense force. Outside the stead, 
there are a dozen pikes with fresh Orc-heads on them.
Beorn puts plates of toast and cheese down in front of the 
company, and then takes a huge iron kettle off the fire and 
fills a strange teapot made of some greenish metal and 
decorated with pictures of birds. 
“I was busy last night. A dozen Orcs in my land without so 
much as a by-your-leave, not that they would ever have 
gotten my leave to do so. The deaths of a thousand Orcs 
might pay for the deaths of Merovech and Odo. I would 
sooner have my friends back, but at least some justice has 
been done.”
“Now, I also found signs – footprints, scents, the night-
speech of bird and beast – that there was a third man on 
the boat. As you guessed, he was a prisoner, and it looks 
like he escaped when the Orcs attacked. He went south, 
and he must be found.”
Beorn asks the companions to undertake this quest. The 
circumstances and the offered reward vary depending on 
how successful they were during the previous audience 
with him. 
Failure: Beorn grumbles that the companions are 
stormcrows who bring nothing but bad news, and that if 
they are ever to be welcome in his lands again, then they 
A Nightly Adventure
A Beorning companion possessing a virtue like Brothers to Bears or Night-goer (or simply a curious adventurer!) 
will almost certainly try to investigate the snuffling and join Beorn in his nocturnal hunt in bear-form. This 
escapade is up to the Loremaster to improvise, but Beorn will most likely ignore and leave behind any hero not in 
spirit form, or will attempt to confound any pursuer and get them lost in the wild. A hero possessing the Night-goer 
virtue might be in for an unforgettable experience, as he joins a troop of spirit-bears as they dance and hunt with 
Beorn all through the night for traces of what happened to Merovech and Odo. The next paragraph, The Next Day 
(above), contains some information about what Beorn did during the night that might need adjusting to reflect the 
events of your game. 
1
1/4

--- PAGE 43 ---
43
must complete Merovech’s mission. Obviously, fate put 
the company on the path to finding that boat, and he is in 
no mood to be picky with fate’s offerings!
Success by 0-2: Beorn grudgingly offers a purse of coins 
as bounty on the escaped prisoner. If the companions 
find him and bring him back alive, Beorn will distribute 
that silver among them to a value of 50 silver for each 
companion, and then send them off.
Success by 3-5: Beorn is impressed with the companions. 
Apply the results of 0-2 above; additionally, he asks them 
to undertake this quest as a favour to him, and he will one 
day do them a favour in return. He bestows his blessing 
upon them and asks if the companions wish to leave 
immediately, or if they will attend the funeral.
Success by 6+: Beorn is very impressed. Apply the results 
of 3-5 above; additionally, Beorn asks that they attend 
the funeral and speak in memory of Merovech and Odo’s 
final stand. Finally, at the end of the adventure Beorn will 
be available to be listed as a patron for the company. 
The Funeral
The funeral of Merovech and Odo is held that evening. 
Neither of the two men were married, although Odo was 
betrothed to a young shield-maiden named Avila who 
stands quietly with red-rimmed eyes, refusing to weep. If 
the bodies were brought back to the hall, then they are 
taken to a line of burial mounds nearby to be interred. 
Beorn honours his thanes by covering their bodies with 
two funeral cloths decorated with golden bees. If they were 
left by the river, then only the first day of the ceremony 
takes place here, and the next day the mourners will travel 
down to the river to gather the dead. 
The full funeral rites take several days, but the first night is 
devoted to honouring the fallen. The Beornings tell stories 
and sing songs of the thanes’ heroism and bravery. Beorn 
watches over the ceremony in silence, but nods gravely 
when the tales please him. As the companions know the 
most about how the two warriors died (even though they 
only found their bodies), they are invited to speak. 
• 
A successful DC 15 Charisma (Persuasion) check 
impresses the crowd, mentioning the spear throw that 
killed the two orcs reduces the DC to 10. A failed roll 
means the character cannot find the right words, or 
exaggerates. The Beornings do not mind boasting, but 
hate lies. 
If the companions act respectfully at the funeral, then 
they win friends among the Beornings; they are treated as 
Favoured in interactions with Beornings in the coming year. 
– Part Three – 
The Chase 
Beorn scented the trail of the prisoner on the banks of the 
Great River – he emerged from the water a short distance 
downstream, and then headed south along an ancient 
path. As the companions are unsure how many days 
passed between the deaths of Merovech and Odo and 
the discovery of the boat, they do not know how much 
of a head start the prisoner has. Beorn suggests that the 
prisoner might return to the lands he came from, the 
Beorning settlements south of the Old Ford, on the edge of 
the land of the Woodmen.  
Kinstrife & Dark Tidings

--- PAGE 44 ---
Wilderland Adventures
44
• 
The journey south is around sixty miles, along open 
terrain in Free lands. On foot, this should take around 
three days; if the companions are travelling with 
mounts or are given them by Beorn, they can make it 
south in two days. The Peril Rating is 1, and there will 
be 1d2-1 Events on the way
In the morning of the second day of travel the company 
should cross the Road near the Old Ford, where a great 
bridge of stone once stood, built of old by Men from 
the south, they say. Another day of marching will bring 
the company to the vicinity of the Beorning village of 
Stonyford, and Part Four of their adventure.
Planning the Route
The lands around the Old Ford are, in recent days, some of 
the safest and most-travelled in Wilderland. The Beornings 
protect this region, and have driven out the Orcs and 
outlaws who once preyed on the few travellers who passed 
this way. These are green, bright lands, untrammelled by 
farms or fences. They are mostly empty, but there are a 
few isolated homesteads in sheltered dales along the river. 
Event Suggestions
The land of the Beornings is usually safe, so the company 
might expect to face no Events worth the name. However, 
the Orc band that Beorn fought the night before was not 
entirely defeated, and there are still a few scattered Orcs 
abroad in the wild. These Orcs might attack the company 
at night, or try to sneak up and cut the Look-out’s throat 
so they can murder the rest of the company as they sleep.
Searching for the Fugitive
The company is not travelling with a destination in mind, 
and so the Journey Rules are not used at this point. 
Instead each Player-hero is allowed to make two skill 
checks each (using either Intelligence (Investigation) or 
Wisdom (Perception or Survival), each at DC 15: every 
successful check yields some traces of Oderic and lets the 
company stay on the track. Most of these signs are subtle 
ones – a footprint here, a path through the meadows 
there, marks of a campfire and so on, but three are of 
special note.
• 
Dead Orc: The corpse of an Orc lies at the bottom of 
a stony gully. The Orc was one of those who attacked 
the boat; Oderic slew the monster and kicked its body 
down into this pit. Examining the Orc’s filthy remains 
shows that its head was chopped clean off with a 
sword, possibly even the same sword of Merovech 
that went missing from the boat. 
• 
The farmstead: The company passes an isolated 
Beorning farmstead. There, they meet an old man 
called Geral. If questioned, a successful DC 10 
Charisma (Persuasion) check reveals that a young 
adventurer stayed with him a few days ago, and left 
after one night leaving a silver coin as payment. Geral 
remembers the young man’s name as Oderic and says 
he was an odd sort, but respectful and generous.
• 
Rumours on the road: The company meets a small 
band of Woodmen, travelling to Mountain Hall in the 
far west. They passed through the village of Stonyford 
recently, and heard tell there of a bloody murder. 
Some Beorning named Oderic murdered another 
hunter, an older man called Rathfic. According to the 
tale, Rathfic caught Oderic in bed with his wife, the 
two fought, and Rathfic was mortally wounded. 
– Part Four – 
Kinstrife
There has not been a ford at Stonyford for hundreds of 
years. The river was passable here once, but no longer. 
The tumbledown pile of stones atop a low hill were once 
a watchtower that guarded the road in a time when kings 
ruled the land. The village remains, though; a few wooden 
huts that cluster around the foot of the mound by the 
river. The folk here survive by fishing and hunting, as they 
have done for many generations. The trail of the escaped 
prisoner leads to this village, and the circumstances 
behind his crimes can be discovered here. Unless the 
company travels by night and avoids the path by the river, 
the villagers spot them long before they arrive, and the 
village’s elders come out to meet them. The Beornings 
do not welcome visitors to their lands with ease, so the 
company must convince the elders to let them enter the 
village.
Encountering the Village Elders
The three Beornings who face the company are: Hartwulf, 
a greybeard who leans heavily upon a staff, and mumbles 
2
1

--- PAGE 45 ---
45
when he talks. The villagers call him their wiseman, and 
believe he knows all sorts of magical secrets – but who 
knows what he means when he mutters to himself. Ava is 
Hartwulf’s daughter and one of the strongest personalities 
in the village. She is the clan’s diplomat and spokeswoman 
when trading and dealing with outsiders. She mistrusts 
visitors, and always tries to dissuade them from coming 
too close to the village. Williferd, a warrior. With the 
recent death of Rathfic and the disgrace of Oderic, Williferd 
is now the most experienced warrior of Stonyford. He is 
very nervous about this new honour, and is clearly jumpy. 
He keeps one hand on his axe-handle at all times.
Motivation
Hartwulf just wants to get through the encounter without 
too much fuss.
Ava wishes to give a good impression of her village to the 
strangers.
Williferd is nervous, and desperate to show strength.
Expectations
+2: Beornings can be trusted; other folk less so. (If the 
companions declare they are on a mission for Beorn 
immediately or if the company has Beorn’s blessing, they 
are counted as Beornings.)
-1: (Ava only) Affairs are to be kept private. (Ava grows 
worried if the characters seem too eager to pry into the 
events that led to Oderic’s arrest.) 
-1: (Hartwulf only) Discussions are to be kept short. 
(Hartwulf grows tired if the characters are evasive or 
longwinded.)
-1: (Williferd only) Swords come easily to the hands of 
strangers. (He’s looking for a fight.)
Introduction
The three villagers introduce themselves first, with Ava 
doing most of the talking. 
“Strangers we do not welcome to our homes. Unless you 
have business here, you must move on. Woodland Hall is 
but a few days travel east of here; doubtless you will find 
better hospitality there. We have suffered enough sorrow 
in recent days. I beg you, leave us in peace.”
Ava is a hardened diplomat and difficult to impress. She 
imposes Disadvantage upon the DC 15 Intelligence 
(Traditions) introduction check). 
Interaction
The first thing the companions need to do is to get 
permission to enter the village. If they provide a thorough 
telling of how Oderic escaped and how the companions 
have tracked him back here, they receive a +1 bonus 
modifier to the Final Audience Check. If they instead 
barge into the village without explaining themselves, 
they gain a -1 modifier instead. In either case, Ava directs 
them to an empty house near the river-bank, this was 
Oderic’s house. 
• 
Unless persuaded otherwise, Ava demands they hand 
their weapons over to Williferd before entering the 
village. 
Once they have permission to enter the village, they can 
share news. On hearing that Oderic has escaped, the 
Beornings are alarmed. Ava shakes her head. 
“These are grim tidings. Oderic is a murderer and 
kinslayer. We thought that by sending him to the Carrock 
for judgement, we were done with his evil.” 
Her aged father mutters something into his beard about 
curses and ghosts, while Williferd grips his axe even 
tighter and looks around warily as if expecting Oderic 
to jump out from behind a tree. The company can get 
the same story from Ava as they receive in Sorrows Old 
& New, below, although Ava’s version of events is less 
charitable than some. Ava tells the company that she has 
heard nothing more of Oderic since he was taken away 
up the river by Merovech and Odo, but it is possible that 
someone in the village saw him and said nothing.
Barred From The Village
If the company fail the audience and are not permitted 
to enter the village openly, then their adventure can 
continue if they search the lands around the village. 
They meet one of the villagers, a boy named after 
Beorn, who tells them that he saw Oderic steal a 
boat and cross the Great River a few days ago. The 
adventure continues in Part Five, but the companions 
now have little hope of redeeming Oderic without 
knowing how he came to be outlawed.
Kinstrife & Dark Tidings

--- PAGE 46 ---
Wilderland Adventures
46
Sorrows Old & New
The villager’s goodwill depends on how they did meeting 
the elders. Choose one hero to make a Final Audience 
Check using any appropriate skills (Traditions or 
Persuasion most likely)
Failure: The villagers offer no welcome, and barely 
acknowledge the travellers’ existence. They are given stale 
bread to eat. The difficulty for all interactions in the village 
is set at DC 15.
0-4: The villagers give a grudging welcome, and invite the 
company to share their fires. They are given fish to eat, and 
the DC for interaction rolls stays at the level of DC 10.
5 or more: The villagers greet the travellers as welcome 
guests! A deer is roasted, and the whole village gathers 
around to hear news and tell tales. The DC of Interaction 
rolls is reduced to DC 5. 
Village Stories and Rumours
Asking about what happened is like opening a floodgate. 
Everyone in the village has their own opinions about 
Oderic, Rathfic and Brunhild. Use Intelligence (Riddle) 
checks to get the following information and Wisdom 
(Insight) can be used to weight its truthfulness. Entries in 
bold are true facts, whereas those in italic are opinions.
Oderic’s family were killed by outlaws when he was 
a young child.
He’s been strange since then.
He never stopped practising fighting since that day.
Oderic was fostered by an old warrior called 
Helmgut, father of Brunhild.
Helmgut treated Oderic like his son.
Helmgut never liked Oderic; he only took him in to 
honour Oderic’s dead father
Helmgut was the best warrior in the village, and he was 
training Oderic to follow in his footsteps. When Rathfic 
came to live here, Oderic was jealous
Oderic and Brunhild lived like sister and brother.
Oderic was very close to Brunhild.
Oderic was obsessed with Brunhild, and would follow 
her around the village.
He would do anything to protect her.
If he came back to the village, she would know about it.
A few years ago, Rathfic came down from the 
mountains to settle here. 
He became the village’s chief warrior, and was betrothed 
to Brunhild.
Rathfic bought Brunhild from her father.
Helmgut was pleased to have Rathfic as a son-in-law.
Rathfic was a great warrior, and an honourable man.
Rathfic was a great warrior, but he was often cruel. He 
cared only about himself, and treated his wife like a 
servant.
Oderic always hated Rathfic because he took Oderic’s 
place in Helmgut’s heart.
Oderic always hated Rathfic because Rathfic married 
Brunhild.
One night, Oderic and Rathfic fought, and Oderic 
killed Rathfic.
Oderic crept into Rathfic’s house and murdered him 
while he slept.
Rathfic caught Oderic in bed with Brunhild.
Rathfic caught Oderic spying on him.
Oderic broke into Rathfic’s house and challenged him to 
a fight.
After killing Rathfic, Oderic surrendered to his 
foster-father Helmgut, and Helmgut sent Oderic to 
the Carrock.
Oderic would have fought his way out, but he couldn’t 
bring himself to kill his foster-father.
Oderic would have fought his way out, but Brunhild 
begged him to stop.
The fighting-madness left Oderic, and he realised what 
he had done.
The Foster-Father’s Tale
Old Helmgut, Oderic’s foster-father, lies in his hut with a 
skin of wine, staring at the woven rushes of the ceiling. Since 
the murder of Rathfic by his foster-son, he has fallen into a 
deep despair. The company can question him, but doing so 
is risky. The old warrior has refused to leave his house since 
Oderic left the village; he’s drunk, emotional and armed 
with a big axe. If the company go in there to question him, 
they make get more cloven heads than answers. 
Helmgut really doesn’t want to talk to anyone other 
than his wineskin. Courtesy and riddling talk don’t work 
on him; it takes a DC 15 Charisma (Intimidation or 
Persuasion) check to convince him to talk.
1/2

--- PAGE 47 ---
47
Helmgut exclaims that he heard his daughter scream, 
and came to investigate. He found Oderic standing over 
Rathfic’s body, and he immediately assumed that Oderic 
had killed Rathfic out of jealousy. He struck Oderic, 
knocking the dagger from the boy’s hand. Oderic, he 
sobs, was always a difficult, angry young man, and while 
Helmgut tried to raise the boy, he has failed. Now his 
son-in-law is dead, his foster-son is a murderer, and his 
daughter refuses to speak to him. 
• 
If the company fail to convince Helmgut to speak, he 
tries to attack them in a drunken rage - but the old 
man is too drunk and exhausted to put up a proper 
fight; he just swings his axe wildly before collapsing 
into a wine-sodden heap.
The Widow’s Tale
Since the death of her husband and the arrest of her foster-
brother, Brunhild has attended to her duties as a grieving 
widow. Every day, she puts fresh flowers on the grave-
mound of Rathfic, and lights candles at night to guide his 
soul to whatever doom awaits mankind. She has become 
cold and brittle, like a woman of ice.
As the only witness to Rathfic’s murder, questioning 
Brunhild is vital if the company are to discover the truth 
about what happened. So far, Brunhild has been icily 
polite but evasive when anyone questioned her, saying 
only that Oderic had committed a crime and would 
be judged at the Carrock. This icy demeanour hides 
her own guilt and confusion – she blames herself for 
Oderic’s actions. 
What happened that night? 
Brunhild explains that her brother Oderic came to her and 
said that he was tired of the village, and that he intended 
to leave and seek his fortune in the wild. No-one in the 
village other than Brunhild really trusted him, he said, 
and he was sick of the place. He asked her to come with 
him – she hesitated, and then Rathfic came home. 
The two men never liked each other, and they immediately 
began arguing. She tried to stop them, and Rathfic struck 
her in the face, knocking her down. Oderic attacked him, 
one of them drew a knife, they struggled – and then 
the knife was in Rathfic’s chest, and there was blood 
everywhere. She screamed. 
Shortly afterwards, her father Helmgut came running. He 
saw Oderic standing there over Rathfic’s body, and hit his 
foster-son with the flat of his axe. Oderic did not even try 
to fight back; he just dropped the knife and fell.
Was Rathfic a good husband? 
Not especially, but neither was he a monster. He and 
Oderic quarrelled, but Oderic fought with everyone in the 
village. She loves her foster-brother, but he has a talent for 
making enemies. Still, the person who is most to blame, 
she thinks, is herself – she wishes she could have stopped 
the fight. No-one needed to die that day.
Has she seen Oderic since then? 
She hesitates, then nods. Oderic visited her one night, a 
few days ago. He explained that Merovech and Odo were 
killed by Orcs, but that he managed to slip away in the 
confusion. He believed that fate had given him a second 
chance, and that he now intended never to return to the 
land of the Beornings. He went west, across the Great 
River. She does not expect to see her brother ever again.
Kinstrife & Dark Tidings
1/2

--- PAGE 48 ---
Wilderland Adventures
48
Optional Complication: 
Brunhild’s Crime
Playtesters suggested an interesting added twist 
to the dilemma – what if Brunhild was the real 
murderer? She could have stabbed her husband to 
protect her foster brother. In this variation, Oderic is 
protecting Brunhild by taking the blame and fleeing. 
If the company are unwilling to defend Oderic at the 
Carrock, then he could confess the truth to them (see 
page 57).
– Part Five – 
The Chase Continued
If the companions have found the right clues in the village 
of Stonyford, they will have learned something about 
Oderic’s whereabouts from Brunhild. If they failed to 
find anything of interest, they might discover that Oderic 
crossed the river from the fact that a boat has gone missing 
(see Signs of the Prisoner below). 
If they are set on the right track, this second chase will 
take them across the Great River and then south into the 
woods north of the Gladden Fields. These are ill-omened 
woods, long a dwelling-place of evil and misfortune. 
Across the Great River
The company must first cross the Anduin. If they are on 
good terms with the Beornings of the village, they can be 
ferried across. Otherwise, they must either find a way 
to be granted passage or else brave the river. The frantic 
current of the Anduin slows as it approaches the morass 
of the Gladden Fields, so a strong swimmer may be able 
to cross the water.
• 
The chase takes the company southwest and then 
south for forty miles in the wilderness and across 
sparse woods in the West Anduin Vales (moderate 
terrain). The route is 40 miles long, and takes roughly 
three days of march. It has a Peril rating of 2, and will 
provoke 1d2 Journey Events with a DC of 14.
Planning the Route
This time the company will use the Journey rules As the 
characters have no set destination, the Embarkation roll 
will determine how well the search will progress. Use the 
following chart to generate modifiers to the tests made 
during the search:
 
       Embarkation Roll Result	        Modifier to DC
	
1-2	
+2
	
3-4	
+1
	
5-8	
0 
	
9-10	
-1
	
11-12	
-2
For Journey Events, refer to the Wilderland Adventures 
Journey Event Table starting on page 143.
Signs of the Prisoner
This time, DC 13 Intelligence (Investigation) or Wisdom 
(Perception or Survival) checks are needed to search for 
signs of Oderic’s movements. Every hero is allowed to 
make two skill rolls each day, with every successful check 
revealing a significant sign of Oderic’s passage. Every clue 
leads the company progressively to the south, towards the 
woods north of the Gladden Fields.
• 
The Boat: One of the first clues found by the travellers 
is along the banks of the Great River. Oderic stole a 
1/4
1/2

--- PAGE 49 ---
49
boat and rowed several miles downstream before 
he abandoned it on the west bank. The companions 
come upon this boat as they search the riverside.
• 
The Broken Knife: Oderic made camp one night on 
the rolling plains between the river and the wood, 
and while trying to prize a stone from his boot he 
accidentally snapped the blade of a knife he stole 
from Odo’s body. The broken shards of a Beorning-
made knife lie in a sheltered dell, near the ashes of a 
campfire.
• 
The Fight: A day or two before the company arrives, 
Oderic was taken prisoner by outlaws, and the signs 
of the fight are still visible to those who can read 
them, at a short distance from the woods. Trampled 
grasses, splinters hewn from a shield and a broken 
spear-haft speak of a battle between one warrior 
and several others. A successful DC 13 Intelligence 
(Investigation) check reveals that the lone warrior 
put up a brave fight, but was outnumbered and 
overwhelmed. An especially good roll may reveal that 
his foes spared his life, bound his hands, and led him 
off into the woods. A clear trail leads into the forest. 
Signs of a Host
When the company finally arrives at the eaves of the 
forest, a successful DC 12 Intelligence (Investigation) 
check reveals clear signs that a number of armed men 
are nearby. There are tracks in the mud, trees have been 
hacked down for firewood and there is no game within 
several miles. These strangers are not wood-wise and 
so are unlikely to be Woodmen from Mountain Hall. A 
successful Intelligence (Lore or Traditions) or Wisdom 
(Perception) check at DC 12 suggests that these might be 
strangers from the south.
- Part Six - 
Cruel, Ill-Favoured men
The bandits hiding in the woods are cruel and malicious 
men, lawless souls who have been easily seduced by the 
growing power of Mordor. They are thieves, marauders 
and slavers, with no common cause save wickedness and 
greed. Some are exiles cast away from the Horse-lords 
to the South, some come from the east, some from the 
Woodland tribes, and still others call no place home save 
the open road. They have come to Wilderland in search of 
treasure and conquest. Their leader, though, is no mere 
bandit. Valter the Bloody believes that he is a king. 
Valter the Bloody
Valter’s ancestor Valind was a knight and close kin to 
Girion, Lord of Dale, before the Dragon came. When 
Girion fell, Valter’s ancestor took a fast horse and fled the 
burning city. He travelled to the East, and sired a child on 
some tavern girl. His son took up his father’s sword and 
armour, as did his son, and his son after him, and with the 
sword came the dream of kingship. Valter desires to make 
his own kingdom in the wild, and to rule over lesser men.
Kinstrife & Dark Tidings
1

--- PAGE 50 ---
Wilderland Adventures
50
For many years, this dream was nothing but an idle fancy, 
until some dark fate guided his steps and he fell in with a 
company of outlaws in the south. He rose to lead the band, 
and brought them north into Wilderland, promising them 
that they would have land, women, gold, respect and 
honour when he came into his new kingdom.
Valter is a born leader of men. He can be charming and 
well-spoken, but he believes that honour and truth are 
delusions born of listening to too many stories. Only 
strength and desire matter. 
He has a talent for worming out secrets and for finding 
weaknesses in the character of others. If you secretly nurse 
some grudge, if some niggling desire gnaws at your soul, if 
you ever felt that you were not given your proper due, then 
Valter knows it and promises that he will make everything 
right – if you follow him.
When his men captured a sullen-eyed Beorning spy, Valter 
did not have the boy put to death or tortured as some 
advised. Instead, he freed Oderic from his bonds, fed him, 
returned his sword and asked him where he came from 
and how he came to be wandering in the wilds. 
Valter intends to begin his conquest with the village of 
Stonyford. Oderic knows that village as well as anyone, 
and Valter believes that the young Beorning will be key to 
his conquest of Wilderland. Today Stonyford, tomorrow 
more of the land of the Beornings... and who knows what 
the next year will bring?  The Dragon conquered Dale and 
robbed Valter’s ancestor of his rightful place; now Valter 
is the conqueror!
Valter and the Spirit
If the Loremaster is using the linking story for the 
adventures (see page 5), then Valter is serving the will 
of the Gibbet King, who plans to use Valter’s attacks 
on the Free Peoples as a distraction. 
Should the company slay Valter, then they find a 
mummified human head among his possessions (the 
spirit used the head to let his will be known to Valter). 
Valter the Bloody
Valter claims to be the descendant of noble kings, but 
he would be a bloody-handed tyrant if he ever won his 
kingdom. His smile is the last thing his foes ever see.
Valter the Bloody
Medium human
STR 
16 (+3)
DEX 
12 (+1)
CON 
14 (+2)
INT 
13 (+1)
WIS 
12 (+1)
CHA 
15 (+2)
Armour Class 16 (corselet of mail, shield)
Hit Points 65 (10d8+20)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Intimidation +4, Survival +3, Traditions +3
Senses darkvision 60 ft, passive Perception 11
Languages Westron
Challenge 3 (700 XP)
Craven. If Valter starts his turn with 32 or less hit points, 
he must make a DC 10 Wisdom saving throw. On a 
failure, he becomes Frightened and must use his Dash 
or Disengage action to move away from any enemies. If 
movement is impossible, he will take the Dodge action 
instead.
Survivor. If Valter is outnumbered, he always uses the 
Dodge action. When an opponent misses him, he may use 
his reaction to make a single melee attack.  
Actions
Multiattack. Valter makes two attacks with his longsword.
Longsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 7 (1d8+3) slashing damage or 8 (1d10+3) 
slashing damage if used with two hands to make a melee 
attack.
Disarming Strike. Valter can aim to strike blows to 
knock whatever his opponent is holding out of its hand. 
On a successful roll to hit, his opponent must make a DC 
12 Dexterity saving throw or drop whatever they are 
holding. The attack does no other damage.
Reaction
Commanding Voice. Valter can shout inspiring words 
to his allies. He may use his reaction to utter a command 
or shout a warning when a non-hostile creature, that he 
can see within 30 feet of it, is about to make an attack roll 
or a saving throw. The target can add a d6 Command 
Die to that roll, provided it can hear and understand the 
message. A creature can benefit from only one Command 
Die at a time, and creatures that possess Commanding 
Voice cannot benefit from this effect.

--- PAGE 51 ---
51
Outlaw Archers
Mean, ill-favoured men from the South, armed with bows 
and knives. Some ride ugly, half-starved horses.
Outlaw Archers
Medium human
STR 
13 (+1)
DEX 
13 (+1)
CON 
11 (+0)
INT 
11 (+0)
WIS 
12 (+1)
CHA 
8 (-1)
Armour Class 12 (leather jerkin)
Hit Points 18 (4d8)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Survival +3, Perception +3
Senses passive Perception 13
Languages Westron
Challenge 1/4 (50 XP)
Actions
Short Bow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, range 
80/320 ft, one target. Hit: 4 (1d6+1) piercing damage.
Knife. Melee Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 3 (1d6+1) piercing damage.
Outlaw Warriors
Grim-faced men, veterans of many battles.
Outlaw Warriors
Medium human
STR 
14 (+2)
DEX 
10 (+0)
CON 
15 (+2)
INT 
11 (+0)
WIS 
11 (+0)
CHA 
8 (-1)
Armour Class 14 (hide, shield)
Hit Points 32 (5d8+10)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Perception +3, Survival +3
Senses passive Perception 13
Languages Westron
Challenge 1/2 (100 XP)
No Quarter. When an enemy is reduced to 0 hit points that 
enemy is considered to already have failed one death save.  
Actions
Hand-Axe. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, 
reach 5 ft or range 20/60 ft, one target. Hit: 5 (1d6+2) 
slashing damage.
Spear. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 
5 ft or range 20/60 ft, one target. Hit: 5 (1d6+2) piercing 
damage or 6 (1d8+2) piercing damage if used with two 
hands to make a melee attack.
The Bandit Camp
The bandits are encamped in the shelter of the forest, 
twenty miles north of the Gladden River. There are some 
fifty warriors in their camp, and more will come from the 
south if Valter’s plans come to fruition. Add in followers, 
wives, children and slaves, and the full group numbers 
nearly one hundred.
Valter’s tent is easily visible at the centre of the camp, 
and Valter himself can be seen around the main campfire 
with his cronies and aides. He keeps Oderic close at hand, 
and makes sure that the young man always has food and 
drink and a place of honour at Valter’s side – he wants to 
be sure of winning Oderic’s loyalty, so the boy will betray 
the Beornings and tell Valter all their secrets. 
Oderic’s own bedroll is at the edge of the camp, where he 
sleeps under the stars.
Outlaw Patrols
The bandits rely on their patrols to warn them of 
approaching danger. If the companions can evade or 
defeat one of these patrols, they can sneak up on the camp 
and observe it from a close distance without grave risk. 
Each patrol consists of two outlaw archers and two outlaw 
warriors. 
Spotting the patrol in advance requires a passive 
Perception of 13 or more (the thick forest makes it easier 
for the patrol to come upon the adventures without 
warning). If the characters have advance warning of the 
patrol, they can choose either to hide (a DC 13 Dexterity 
(Stealth) check, with Advantage due to the thick foliage) 
or ambush their foes (the outlaws will be Surprised)..
Watching for Oderic
From a hidden vantage point overlooking the camp – and 
there are several excellent and leafy trees in the area – 
the company can watch the outlaws and identify Oderic. 
A successful DC 10 Wisdom (Insight) check reveals the 
following:
• 
Oderic is being treated as an honoured guest by 
the outlaw king, but the other outlaws watch him 
suspiciously. He is not a prisoner, but he is under 
guard.
Kinstrife & Dark Tidings
1

--- PAGE 52 ---
Wilderland Adventures
52
• 
One of the outlaws shadows Oderic wherever he goes.
• 
Oderic sometimes goes walking alone in the woods, 
followed by his outlaw watcher; if the companions 
can deal with the watcher, then they could talk to 
Oderic – or take him prisoner.
Sending Word to Beorn
The company may decide that a whole army of 
outlaws is much more important than one runaway 
Beorning, and conclude that their duty at this point 
is to return to Beorn’s stead and warn the Beornings 
and the Woodsmen of this new danger. Point out that 
their mission is to recapture Oderic, but if the players 
are adamant, let them retreat. The battle with the 
outlaws will be even bloodier in this case.
- Part Seven - 
The Outlaw Boy
The company have found their quarry, but now must spirit 
him away from the outlaw band. There are three ways to 
do this (and many tactics suggested by the players may be 
reproduced by customising the suggestions given below).
Openly, by Force
A truly valorous (if lacking in wisdom) company could take 
on the whole outlaw band in a surprise attack and carry 
Oderic away. This is not quite as suicidal as it sounds if 
the company have a few doughty warriors and can move 
fast. They could attack the camp in the night, grab Oderic, 
then flee into the trees. 
This is the least likely option for most companies. If the 
players choose this approach, then assume that the outlaw 
camp has six guards at night, and that every five rounds 
of combat after the attack begins, another 1d6 outlaws 
join the fray until the whole camp is roused.
Secretly, by Cunning
The company could lure Oderic away, deal with the one 
outlaw assigned to watch him, and then knock Oderic out 
or put a sword to his throat.
By Convincing Oderic to leave Willingly
Again, the company must deal with the outlaw watchman, 
but they could then choose to appeal to Oderic’s better 
nature and convince him to aid them against the outlaws 
or come back to the Carrock for trial.
Playing Oderic Kinslayer
The young Beorning man is the key character in this scene, 
so let’s take a moment to discuss how best to play him. 
Oderic is a tragic hero – his great gifts are matched by 
equally great flaws of character. He wants to be loved, 
but his dark moods and sullen attitude estrange him from 
everyone else. Back in Stonyford, the villagers mistrusted 
him from a young age because of his fey moods and the 
horrible fate of his parents, and Brunhild was his only 
friend. 
He desperately wanted to prove himself to his foster-father 
Helmgut but, while Oderic is an excellent warrior, he was 
no leader of men, which is why Rathfic took Helmgut’s 
place instead of Oderic. Oderic, of course, saw this as 
a betrayal – and was betrayed again when Brunhild 
married Rathfic. Convinced that there was nothing left for

--- PAGE 53 ---
53
him in the village, he tried to leave, only to be insulted and 
threatened by a drunken Rathfic. Oderic never meant to 
kill the man, but a red mist descended upon him...
When he was seized, Oderic sank into a depression 
that lifted when fate seemed to intervene and the Orcs 
killed his guards. He thought that he was free of all his 
previous entanglements, free to prove that he was not the 
troublesome orphan boy who caused trouble, but a heroic 
adventurer. Instead of finding adventure, however, he has 
fallen in with outlaws. He has let himself be enchanted 
by Valter, and wants to convince himself that Valter is a 
kingly man who means no ill to the Beornings – but in his 
heart, Oderic knows that Valter is evil. 
Here, then, is Oderic’s dilemma. If he stays with the 
outlaws, he knows he is doing evil, but the outlaws offer 
him a place in their camp and the promise of glory. If he 
returns to the Beornings, he faces trial for a murder that 
he did not intend to commit, and he will be judged by a 
people who have always mistrusted and feared him. 
Some of the time, Oderic is to be pitied; misfortune is 
piled on misfortune, and everything he touches turns to 
ill. Some of the time, he is to be admired; he is a brave 
young warrior, and could become a great hero if given the 
chance. The rest of the time, the players should just want 
to slap him – he’s a moody teenager with a big sword who 
is convinced the world is against him!
The Outlaw Watchman
The chief, Valter the Bloody, ordered one of his most 
trusted henchmen to shadow Oderic. This watchman is 
a grim trapper and huntsman from Wilderland named 
Faron. He never talks except when he is scornful, and 
never smiles except when he plunges his wickedly sharp 
knife into something living. In his youth, he was silent as 
a shadow; he is not as lithe as he once was, but he is still 
cunning enough to shadow Oderic without the younger 
man spotting him.
If the company are to speak to Oderic alone, they need to 
deal with Faron. They might:
• 
Lure the huntsman away with a trick. It is plain to 
see from looking at him that he is a cruel man, and 
while he might raise the alarm if he sees a group of 
intruders, he would prefer to deal with a lone traveller 
on his own.
• 
Ambush him and either kill him or knock him out 
before he can raise the alarm. Heroes might find any 
Woodland scenery features they like in their chosen 
ambush spot.
• 
Use some ability (Sleight of Hand plus herb-lore, 
perhaps) to drug his ale and knock him out. 
Once Faron is dealt with, the company may approach 
Oderic.
Faron, the Trapper
Faron was exiled from his home when he began to hunt 
two-legged prey...
Faron, the Trapper
Medium Human
STR 
14 (+2)
DEX 
16 (+3)
CON 
15 (+2)
INT 
13 (+1)
WIS 
12 (+1)
CHA 
8 (-1)
Armour Class 14 (Leather corselet)
Hit Points 52 (8d8+16)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Perception +3, Stealth +5, Survival +3
Senses passive Perception 13
Languages Westron
Challenge 3 (700 XP)
Stalker. If Faron spends at least one minute observing his 
opponents before attacking, he gains Advantage on all his 
attacks for the first 1d3 rounds of combat.
Actions
Multiattack. Faron makes two melee attacks.
Spear. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 
5 ft or range 20/60 ft, one target. Hit: 5 (1d6+2) piercing 
damage or 6 (1d8+2) piercing damage if used with two 
hands to make a melee attack.
Reaction
Deadly Spear-Thrust. Faron may use his reaction to 
make a single melee attack against a creature that has 
just attacked him. If Faron inflicts a critical hit with this 
ability, the target is knocked Prone as the blow strikes a 
knee or other joint.
Snake-like Speed (Recharge 5-6). Faron is adept at 
avoiding injury. He can use his reaction to halve the 
damage from an attack that he is aware of. 
Kinstrife & Dark Tidings

--- PAGE 54 ---
Wilderland Adventures
54
Capturing Oderic
The direct approach is to engage Oderic in combat. While 
the boy is a skilled and determined warrior, driven by a 
gushing heart-spring of discontent and hatred, he is only 
one man against the whole company. Oderic fights with 
the sword he took from Merovech, putting all the skills he 
learned from old Helmgut into action. To defeat Oderic, 
the company can either:
• 
Reduce him to 0 hit points and knock him Unconscious.
• 
Reduce him to 1/2 his starting hit points and succeed 
with a DC 15 Charisma (Persuasion) check.
• 
Disarm him.
Oderic
It can be a great misfortune to be born a hero when your 
own folk fail to recognise your true worth.
Oderic
Medium human
STR 
17 (+3)
DEX 
15 (+2)
CON 
15 (+2)
INT 
11 (+0)
WIS 
8 (-1)
CHA 
13 (+1)
Armour Class 14 (Leather corselet)
Hit Points 52 (8d8+16)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Perception +1, Survival +1
Senses passive Perception 11
Languages Westron
Challenge 3 (700 XP)
Reckless. Oderic may choose to gain Advantage on all 
attacks he makes in a round, but all attacks on him gain 
Advantage until the start of his next turn.
Savage Assault. When Oderic rolls a natural 18 or 19 
he may use his bonus action to make a single additional 
melee attack against the same opponent.
Actions
Multiattack. Oderic makes two melee attacks.
Longsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 7 (1d8+3) slashing damage or 8 (1d10+2) 
piercing damage if used with both hands.
Speaking to Oderic
This is an especially tricky encounter. If the company 
have not visited Stonyford, they are unlikely to be able to 
convince Oderic to go with them peacefully. 
Motivation & Expectations
Oderic’s initial assumption is that the adventurers are rivals 
in Valter’s camp who want to murder him, and demands 
to be released if held captive  – or else he threatens them 
immediately, demanding they leave him alone. The best 
introduction is at sword-point here: if the company show 
they could take Oderic prisoner, but want to talk to him 
instead of just attacking him, then he will listen to them.
+2: Mentioning Brunhild by name gives a +2 to the final 
audience test
+1: Hinting that the characters sympathise with his 
murder of Rathfic
+1: Reminding him of Helmgut’s sorrow 
-1: Insulting Valter – Oderic is under Valter’s spell and 
mislikes it if the adventurers insult his new master.
-2: Treating him as a criminal
Interaction 
Oderic is initially suspicious and mistrustful of the 
companions. The first thing he wants to know is what they 
are doing here. A DC 10 Wisdom (Insight) check reveals 
that the boy is fighting against himself; he wants to believe 
that the outlaws are his friends, but he knows they are 
bandits and murderers. The company need to make him 
confront this truth.
Inquiring about Oderic’s involvement with the 
outlaws
Oderic admits that Valter wants him to reveal the secret 
defences and strongholds of the Beornings. He knows 
that Valter intends to attack the Beornings, but refuses 
to admit it to himself. The company can point out the 
obvious reason why Valter would want to know about the 
Beornings defenses, beg Oderic to see reason, or inspire 
Oderic to look within himself. If they do so, add a +1 
modifier to the Final Audience Check.
Proposing Oderic returns
Oderic fears returning to the Beornings, as he believes 
that he will be put to death for killing Rathfic. The 
company could say they will speak for him at his trial, 
or convince Oderic that the honourable thing to do is 
take the consequences of his actions, Beorn might even 
exile him and he could become a wandering hero. If the 
companions convince Oderic add a +1 modifier to the 
Final Audience Check..
2

--- PAGE 55 ---
55
Success or Failure 
If the heroes succeed at the Final Audience Check, they 
convince Oderic to admit to himself that the bandits are 
plotting to attack the Beornings, and that Oderic might 
still have a place among his kinfolk. Now, they must 
decide on their next course of action. 
• 
They could bring Oderic with them back to Beorn, but 
that puts Stonyford in jeopardy. 
• 
Oderic suggests that he could lead the outlaws into 
a trap by guiding them north, giving the Beornings 
time to rally an army. This tactic has the best chance 
of defeating the outlaws, but requires the company to 
trust Oderic to do his part.
If the company fail the audience, then Oderic violently 
opposes any proposition and attacks them. The company 
can still fight back and take him prisoner.
– Part Eight – 
Grim Tidings
The outlaw band must be stopped, and the company 
cannot do it alone! If Oderic remains allied with the 
bandits, or if the company have captured him, then they 
must flee and bring word to the Beornings as quickly 
as possible. However, if the company convinced Oderic 
to lead the outlaws into a trap, then the company must 
head to Beorn’s stead as swiftly as they can to warn the 
chieftain so he can rally an army.
The Journey 
The company is fifty miles away from Stonyford and more 
than a hundred miles away from Beorn’s house. 
• 
Both the trip to Stonyford and to Beorn’s house are 
short Journeys according to the rules, with a Peril 
Rating of 2. Since time is of the essence, the rules on 
page 176 of the Player’s Guide tell us that it would take 
four days to get to Stonyford, and from Stonyford it 
would take three days to get to the house of Beorn. 
Straight from the forest to Beorn requires six days..
Forced March
The company can also press themselves, and march for 
more hours each day than they would otherwise dare. If 
the company undertakes a forced march, they halve the
duration of each leg of a journey (round fractions up). 
The same number of Journey events occur, but the heroes 
cannot benefit from any rests while in a forced march.
• 
For every day spent in a forced march past the first 
one each hero must make a DC 15 Constitution 
saving throw. On a failure, the hero gains a level of 
exhaustion. The company can stop the forced march 
at any time, see Interrupting Journeys on page 59 of 
the Loremaster’s Guide.
On a forced march, the trip to Stonyford would take the 
company two days to complete, and would require each 
companion to make one DC 15 Constitution saving 
throw. The trek from Stonyford to the house of Beorn 
also takes two days and requires one saving throw as 
well. Going from the forest to the house of Beorn directly 
is three days, meaning each hero must make two DC 15 
Constitution saving throws.
Clouds Gather
When the company reaches his house, the shapeshifter is 
quick to react. Beorn may not have desired to be chieftain 
of a whole people, but when they are threatened, he does 
not stand idly by.
“These outlaws are a danger to me and my folk, and will 
be driven from Wilderland. Tonight, you shall sleep in my 
hall, for we leave for battle at dawn!”
His wondrous horses ride from Beorn’s stead at great speed, 
and bring word of the danger to many Beorning settlements 
and outposts in the region. Sooner than the companions 
expected, he assembles a fighting force of Beorning 
warriors to battle the outlaws. He puts the host under the 
command of another one of his trusted lieutenants, then 
vanishes into the wilderness. The Beornings know he will 
return to them when battle is joined. 
Oderic’s Fate
If Oderic is in the company’s custody, he begs to be allowed 
to participate in the coming battle. He swears that he will 
return to the company if they free him for the duration 
of the fighting. If the company convinced him to go with 
them willingly, then Oderic is as good as his word – after 
the battle, he returns to them to face his judgement at the 
Kinstrife & Dark Tidings
1

--- PAGE 56 ---
Wilderland Adventures
56
Carrock. If they took him prisoner by force, but treated him 
fairly and convinced him to stand trial honourably, then he 
will also return after the battle. However, if they captured 
him by force and treated him as an enemy, then he throws 
himself into the fray and dies heroically in battle.
The Battleground
The location of the battle depends on the previous actions 
of the company:
Oderic guides the outlaws against the Beornings
Oderic brings the outlaws to a stand of trees on the west 
bank of the Great River a few miles north of Stonyford. 
There, they make rafts and sail across the river by night; 
at a spot he shows them where the crossing is easy. They 
attack Stonyford the next morning. Beorn’s army arrives 
too late to save the village, and battle is joined in the ruins 
of the settlement. See the map on the front end papers.
Oderic is a prisoner
Without Oderic to guide them, the outlaws must travel 
north to the one safe crossing spot they know – the Old 
Ford. There, on the banks of the Anduin, they meet Beorn’s 
army and fight. See the map on the front end papers.
Oderic tricks the outlaws
If the companions convince Oderic to lead the bandits 
into a trap, then he brings them north in the direction 
of the Old Ford, but convinces them that the best way of 
travelling without being noticed is to follow him into a 
steep-sided valley called the Gloomy Fold, near the ford. 
Travelling through this stony valley puts the outlaws at a 
disadvantage – it slows them down and lets the Beornings 
trap them. See the map on the front end papers.
Battle is Joined!
The companions are not the commanders of the Beorning 
forces in the battle – their time to command will come in 
another adventure (see page 118). However, they do fight 
on the front lines. Depending on the circumstances, they 
face either a band of blood-thirsty outlaws flush with 
victory or a tired band of foes. The enemy is the same in 
either case, but the side that holds the upper hand varies 
by the field of battle.
• 
Battle at Stonyford: The outlaws have Advantage in 
the first d4 rounds of combat.
• 
Battle at the Old Ford: Neither side has Advantage.
• 
Battle at Gloomy Fold: The Beornings and their allies 
have Advantage in the first d4 rounds of combat.
In their section of the battle, the company faces one Outlaw 
Warrior and one Outlaw Archer per hero (see page 51)
In the Fray
The swirling melee of a large battle is confusing, and there 
are foes all around. Enemies lurch in and out of range; 
new foes join the fight and wounded enemies fall back. 
The ground underfoot becomes red-slick with blood. 
If the companions defeat their foes, then they break 
through the outlaw lines and see Valter the Bloody, the 
outlaw captain. Valter leads his army from the rear, and 
when Beorn shows up (see below), he turns tail and runs. 
The only way for the companions to catch or kill Valter in 
the battle is to break through the lines, and then engage 
him in combat until Beorn arrives.
If Oderic sided with the outlaws, then the company 
find him at Valter’s side. However, when Beorn arrives 
and Valter flees the field, then Oderic remains and dies 
fighting either the companions or Beorn.
Beorn! Beorn!
At a key moment of the battle, just as the outlaws seem 
about to rally, the Beornings start beating their spear-butts 
on the ground and chanting ‘Beorn! Beorn! Beorn!’ over 
and over. As the chanting reaches a crescendo, a hulking 
shape appears at the flank of the Outlaw forces.  Beorn 
has arrived, wearing the shape of a giant bear. 
If the bandits were charged by a storm made flesh, the 
effect could not be more devastating. Some of the outlaws 
throw down their weapons and surrender; others are 
crushed or torn to pieces by the wrathful bear. 
The battle is soon over.
After the Battle
With the outlaws defeated, the companions can bind their 
wounds and attend to the fallen, while they learn about 
the fate of the other combatants.

--- PAGE 57 ---
57
Oderic
If the company freed Oderic to fight in the battle, then he 
either returns to them as he promised, or else sells his 
life dearly in battle. If he sided with the Outlaws, then 
he is most likely dead unless the companions took him 
prisoner. If he tricked the Outlaws, then he survives the 
battle and is captured by the Beornings.
Valter The Bloody
The outlaw chief escaped death and vanished into the 
wild – unless the company were able to break through the 
enemy lines and catch him, in which case Beorn’s wild 
attack kills him.
Brunhild & Helmgut
If the battle took place at Stonyford, then both of Oderic’s 
relatives perished in the fighting. Otherwise, they attend 
the trial.
– Part Nine – 
Judgement at the Carrock
The Beornings are a simple people, but they know their 
law. Cases are brought before a clan chieftain or before 
Beorn himself for judgement. Speakers on both sides may 
argue for their cause, trying to curry the favour of the 
listeners. But since Beorn is the source of all law, ultimately 
everything depends on the judge.
If he lives, Oderic is brought before Beorn for judgement 
to answer for his crimes. If he sided with the outlaws, then 
Beorn makes a summary judgement, and the companions 
need not be involved at all. However, if Oderic was brought 
back as a prisoner, or if he tricked the outlaws, then the 
case is not so clear-cut. He killed Rathfic – but how should 
he be punished for this crime? 
The Trial
Beorn settles himself on a stone at the Carrock, overlooking 
the silver thread of the moonlit Anduin, and listens to his 
followers.
Motivation
Beorn wants justice. He is not a cruel man, not neither is 
he a kindly one. He will weigh the evidence given to him 
and see what the best thing to do is.
Expectations
-4: If any of the characters attempt to lie, they must pass a 
DC 15 Charisma (Deception) check. Regardless of success 
or failure, the so-called hero gains a point of Shadow. 
Kinstrife & Dark Tidings
3

--- PAGE 58 ---
Wilderland Adventures
58
Introduction
The companions do not need to introduce themselves here. 
Ava is the first to speak at the trial, and she introduces 
Oderic’s case for all to hear. She describes how Oderic was 
always a strange, troublesome boy, how he was jealous of 
Rathfic, and how he broke into Rathfic’s house and killed 
him. She then calls on Helmgut to describe what he saw, 
and Oderic’s foster-father mumbles a few words about 
how he found his son with a knife in his hand standing 
over Rathfic’s body.
Beorn then asks if anyone else wishes to speak. If the 
companions wish to intervene, or if they want to push 
Brunhild into speaking, now is the time. 
Interaction
It is up to the heroes to speak for or against Oderic. 
They can use Charisma (Persuasion) to speak of his 
heroism. They can call Brunhild or Helmgut as witnesses 
and interrogate them with Intelligence (Riddle). They 
can appeal to Beorn’s mercy with either Charisma 
(Persuasion) or Intelligence (Traditions). They can 
reflect that Oderic’s aid turned the tide of battle using 
Wisdom (Insight), if appropriate. 
Each argument can be used once, each requires DC 15 to 
succeed. Each successful argument adds +1 to the Final 
Audience Check, each failure applies -1.
Judgement
When everything is said and done, one character may 
make a final argument with an Intelligence (Traditions) 
check to resolve the audience. Regardless of the result, 
Beorn sighs and learns forward. “Kinslaying is the worst 
of crimes” he rumbles, “and this boy certainly murdered 
Rathfic.” 
Failure: “I am sorry, but the law is clear. Oderic is to be 
cast out of the lands of the Beornings, never to return east 
of the Great River, condemned to live as an outlaw, an Orc 
or a Warg, in the shadows of the Misty Mountains. Every 
free man is given the right to slay him, would he defy his 
exile and dare to return.”
Success by 0-5: “Oderic fought bravely, but he is still 
guilty of a crime. He is condemned to pay a man’s worth 
in gold to Brunhild and her father Helmgut, or serve as 
their thrall for life.”
Success by 6 or more: “Your words have moved me. I 
think Oderic did not mean to kill Rathfic, and while he 
acted unwisely, he was not the only one to do so. We will 
be merciful.”
Oderic accepts his fate stoically, no matter what happens.
Aftermath
Regardless of what happens at the trial, Beorn thanks the 
companions for recapturing the prisoner and warning 
him of the outlaws. He gifts them, if they ask for it or if it 
was previously agreed-upon, with 50 silver each. If they 
did especially well, he promises them the friendship of the 
Beornings for as long as there are honest men in these 
lands. 
Fellowship Phase
This is an excellent opportunity for a member of the 
company to gain Beorn as a patron, or to open Beorn’s 
house as a sanctuary.
1/2
1

--- PAGE 59 ---
59
- Those Who - 
Tarry No Longer 
For Heroes of level 3 or 4
• 
When: The company may undertake this quest at any 
time in any year from 2946 onwards. Thematically, it 
works best during the autumn of the year, when the 
leaves of Mirkwood turn yellow and red.
• 
Where: The adventure begins in the eaves of 
Mirkwood, anywhere along the forest’s northern 
edge or along the western border as far south as 
Rhosgobel, but ideally near the Forest Gate.
• 
What: The company are called upon to escort an 
elven noblewoman from Mirkwood to the High Pass.
• 
Why: The Elf-woman asks the company to serve her, 
and offending so powerful an Elf would be unwise.
• 
Who: Irimë is a High Elf of the house of Gil-Galad. 
She has lived in Middle-earth since the days of the First 
Age, and now tires of the world. She is travelling West, 
to the Havens and from thence to the Undying Lands.
Adventuring Phase
This adventure is divided into seven parts.
Part One – The Borders of the Forest 
While travelling, the companions meet a band of Elves, 
including Legolas, son of Thranduil and Galion. They are 
asked to escort Irimë to the High Pass, where she will be 
met by the sons of Elrond.
Part Two – Weary of the World
The company travels across Wilderland, and Irimë speaks 
of the history of the land and her sorrow. The companions 
suspect they are being followed by Orcs.
Part Three – The Hill of Woe
Waylaid by an Orc-host, the companions fight to survive 
until they are rescued by the Eagles.
Part Four – A Guest of Eagles
The company spends a night in the Eyrie, and Irimë speaks 
of the growing shadow over Middle-earth.
Part Five – The Ruins
The Eagles bring the company back to the High Pass, where 
they wait for the sons of Elrond. While the companions 
slumber, Irimë is attacked by an evil spirit, and the 
company are drawn into her struggle in their dreams.
Part Six – Dark Dreams
While trapped in the wraith-world, the dreaming 
companions are thrown into the pits of Dol Guldur. If they 
can sustain their hope, Irimë may prevail.
Part Seven – Dawn in the West
If Irimë survives the night, she bids the company farewell 
and offers her blessing for the dark days to come.
The Long Memory of the First-born
If there is an Elf among the companions, the 
first encounter with Legolas and Galion unfolds 
differently, and the Elf would already know or have 
heard of the lady Irimë. Before the game begins, 
take the player of the Elf aside and tell him what he 
knows about Irimë.
Irimë of the House of Gil-Galad is one of the most 
respected courtiers of King Thranduil’s court. She 
is a Noldorin Elf, and was close kin to the rulers of 
the kingdom of Lindon. It is said that she wove the 
cloth of Gil-Galad’s shining banner. She came east 
with Thranduil after the War of the Last Alliance, 
and brought light to the Elvenking’s halls for many 
years. In recent centuries, it is said that Irimë grows 
weary of the mortal world, and more and more her 
heart turns towards Valinor in the Uttermost West, 
where most of her kin now dwell. When Irimë seeks 
the solace of the Grey Havens, Middle-earth will be 
forever diminished.
Those Who Tarry No Longer

--- PAGE 60 ---
Wilderland Adventures
60
– Part One – 
The Borders of the Forest 
This encounter may happen at any time when the company 
are in or near Northern Mirkwood. They might even be on 
another errand when they meet the Elves.
You can foreshadow this encounter by having the company 
see signs of Orcs, such as footprints or young trees hacked 
down with swords for no reason other than destructive 
malice. The company might even run into Goblins as an 
Event on their Journey.
• 
Before the Audience begins, check for passive 
Perception from the company’s Look-out or Scout. The 
DC for this test is 15 – only the truly wood-wise can 
detect the tread of Elves in the forest. If the check is 
successful – or if there is an Elf in the company, or 
someone with a Wisdom of 16 or more – then the Elves 
greet the companions openly. Otherwise, the first sign 
the company see of the Elves is when they suddenly 
find they are surrounded by archers in the trees.
A Chance Meeting 
One of the Elves steps forward to parley with the company. 
If the companions have had dealings with him before, 
they recognise Galion, Thranduil’s former cup-bearer. If 
there are Elves in the company (or again someone with a 
Wisdom of 16 or more), then Galion asks them to speak 
with the lady Irimë and Prince Legolas; skip onto The 
Lady’s Request, below. Otherwise, Galion addresses them 
in a hostile tone. 
“You trespass in the Woodland Realm, mortals. We 
thought you Orcs at first by your smell. Lucky for you we 
stayed our hands, or you would be dead now. Tell me, have 
you seen Orcs in your travels. A band of them is nearby. 
They are hunting us, and we are hunting them.”
Galion
If the company dealt with him before, then he may 
be more friendly – or less! – depending on how that 
encounter went. Galion wants news of the Orcs and of 
conditions on the road west. Anyone making a successful 
DC 10 Wisdom (Insight) or Intelligence (Lore) realises 
that it is unusual for an Elf to take such an interest in the 
wider world, and that Galion must be planning a journey. 
Asking questions of Galion is unwise, as he sees it as prying 
into elven affairs. However, if the company are courteous, 
he does reveal that a large number of Orcs – “...powerful 
Mordor-Orcs, not Goblins from Hithaeglir!” (the Misty 
Mountains) – came out of the Heart of Mirkwood some 
weeks ago and have harried his company ever since.
After a few minute’s talking (or if the company impresses 
Galion), he brings them to meet the leaders of the Elves 
– see The Lady’s Request, below. If they were especially 
polite, he gifts them with travelling supplies including 
waybread and fresh water before they leave (the company 
automatically gets a result of 7, Feasts Fit for the Kings of 
Ancient Times, on their next Embarkation roll.).
The Lady’s Request
Two of the Elves stand apart from the rest, and both seem... 
brighter, perhaps? Or more solid than the rest? It is hard 
to put one’s finger on it. A companion with Wisdom 16 or 
more, or proficiency in Lore (or who is an Elf or Dunedain) 
recognises these as noble Elves.
One is dressed in green and brown, and carries a 
bow upon his back. He appears young, confident and 
brave, an Elf-lord in his prime. He is one of the nobility 
of the Woodland Realm. The other Elf wears a gown of 
shimmering white and cloud-grey silks, unmarked and 
untorn despite the thickness of the undergrowth in the 
forest. Her face is hidden by a grey veil, but her arms are 
adorned with silver bracelets, and upon her finger a ring 
glimmers with its own inner light. She must be one of the 
Noldor, of whom but a few remain in Middle-earth. The 
pair spend a few moments speaking to one another in the 
Ancient Tongue. 
It is unlikely any of the company speak this language (save 
those with proficency in Lore, see page 31 of the Player’s 
Guide). After a moment, the young Elf-lord turns to the 
company and bows.
“Greetings. I am Legolas, son of Thranduil. This is the lady 
Irimë, of the House of Finwë. The lady is journeying west, 
to the High Pass. It was our errand to take her there, but 
these Orcs must be driven from our land.” He pauses and 
glances at the veiled woman, then goes on. “The lady has 
requested that you bring her the rest of the way.”
1
3

--- PAGE 61 ---
61
Expectations
(Legolas) 
+2: Everyone understands the gravity of the charge. (The 
company swear to defend Irimë with their lives)
-1: A Plague on the Stiff Necks of the Dwarves! (If there 
are any dwarves in the company.)
(Irimë) 
+1: Speak only beauty. (If the adventurers greet her in 
Elvish)
-1: I have the privacy of my thoughts. (No-one should ask 
questions of Irimë that she does not wish to answer.)
Introduction
Legolas does most of the talking; Irimë stands impassively, 
watching the companions as they speak. As they speak, 
though, her gaze falls upon each of them, one by one, as if 
reading the intentions of their hearts.
Interaction
The meeting (or Audience) is brief, and the companions 
will do better to play upon their major strengths if they 
want to make a good impression. As far as Legolas is 
concerned, Irimë has made a request of these mortals, and 
they should carry it out without delay, and be honoured 
that so great a noble has deigned to entrust her safety to 
them. The longer he dickers with the company, the greater 
the chance the Orcs will cause more mischief.
Legolas tells the company that the Lady is travelling 
to the hidden valley of Imladris, which is Rivendell in 
the Common Tongue. She has sent word ahead of her 
coming, and riders were sent out from the Last Homely 
House to meet her at the crossing of the mountains. The 
company are to bring her from the edge of Mirkwood to 
the High Pass. 
If the company asks for a reward, the Legolas says that 
his father Thranduil will recompense them (this applies 
a -1 modifier to Final Audience Check). If they continue 
to press, he grows impatient with the mortals (this is a 
-2 modifier). If they ask about the Orcs, Legolas assures 
them that none will leave the forest alive. If the heroes 
thank him for this, grant a +1 modifier to the Final 
Audience Check. 
If the company are courteous and respectful, then 
Irimë finishes the conversation by casting back her veil, 
revealing a beautiful and ageless face. 
“I am Irimë of the House of Gil-Galad. Elen sila lumenn’ 
omentielvo.”
Conclusions
If the companions fail the Final Audience Check, Legolas 
looks as though he is about to change his mind and bring 
Irimë to the pass himself, but the lady touches his arm 
and whispers a rebuke in Elvish. Legolas frowns, but lets 
Irimë have her way.
If on the contrary, the companions have impressed the 
Lady, compare their individual actions with the entries 
below:
Negative Modifier(s):  the Lady is not impressed by the 
adventurer. She will generally ignore the adventurer’s 
presence and won’t address them directly, favouring other 
heroes who achieved a better result during the encounter 
(if any). 
Those Who Tarry No Longer

--- PAGE 62 ---
Wilderland Adventures
62
This lack of consideration from such a beautiful and wise 
creature weighs heavily on the companion.
+1 Modifier: if one or more companions achieve such 
a result, Irimë is intrigued with their ingenuity. When 
she speaks, she makes sure she addresses them directly, 
curious about their reactions.
+2 Modifier or multiple +1 Modifiers: Irimë is 
impressed. Apply the results as above; additionally, at 
the end of the adventure the Lady will bestow her blessing 
on such companions, if they survive, naming them Elf-
friends (see page 76).
Supper by the Forest Eaves
The Elves travel with the company until twilight falls, 
then invite them to dine with them. In a clearing, the 
company find a table covered in a white cloth, lamps 
that glow with a silver light hanging from low boughs, 
and a supper fit for Hobbits. The next morning, the Elves 
are gone, except for Irimë, and she has changed her 
shimmering gown for more practical travelling clothes, 
including a heavy hooded cloak that hides her features. 
Even more curiously, the company find that they are 
close to the western border of Mirkwood, near the road 
to the Old Ford, no matter where they thought they were 
in the forest. Presumably, the company’s Guide was 
wrong about their whereabouts; the alternative is that 
the company were transported many miles while they 
slept, which is of course impossible.
–Part Two – 
Weary of the World
The journey from the edge of the wood to the Old Ford 
is done along a well-travelled path. If the company have 
come this way before (as they may have done if they 
played through Of Leaves & Stewed Hobbits), they gain 
Advantage on the first skill check made on the journey. 
• 
The journey from the eaves of Mirkwood to the 
Old Ford should take one or two days, while the 
trip from the Ford to the High Pass normally takes 
two days, but this time it might take a day more, 
as the Lady cautions the company about spending 
the whole journey on the Road. If there are Orcs 
abroad, they are likely watching the Road, and in 
any case, there may be prying eyes about, and Irimë 
would prefer not to reveal her presence in the Wild. 
The Journey has a Peril Rating of 1 and provokes 1d2 
Journey Events with DC 13.
 
 
The Shadow of the Past
As the company travels, Irimë speaks only when some 
feature of the landscape reminds her of the past. 
Sometimes she sings songs of long-ago battles. While 
Irimë never directly betrays any emotion, her tales of the 
past are always tinged with sadness: she always describes 
how the glories of the past were destroyed or tarnished. 
Intersperse the following memories with signs of the Orcs 
(see A Darkness in the Present below). 
• 
At the Old Ford, she describes how a great bridge built 
by the Dwarves once spanned the river, and how it 
was made even greater by the men of lost Arnor. Great 
armies rode across that bridge, and she remembers 
the ice-spear of her kinsman Gil-Galad glittering in the 
sunlight. He rode away into shadow.
• 
Looking back at Mirkwood, she speaks of Eryn Galen, 
the Green Wood, for so the Elves used to call it before 
1

--- PAGE 63 ---
63
the Shadow came to Dol Guldur. The Wise may have 
driven the Necromancer from his fastness in Southern 
Mirkwood, but evil still lingers in its depths.  
• 
Near the river, she describes how the Anduin flows 
south past the Golden Wood of Laurelindórenan. 
There is a strange note in her voice when she speaks 
of that land, and cautions the company against 
travelling there, lest they fall into the enchantment of 
the Lady of the Forest. 
• 
East of Laurelindórenan, she says, the river once 
watered the Garden Lands, where the Enyd Bess 
dwelled until the Enemy hunted them all down. The 
burning of their gardens was one of the worst wounds 
the Enemy ever inflicted upon Middle-earth. All that is 
beautiful fades or is destroyed.
• 
At night, she sings of Beleriand, which is drowned 
beneath the ocean, and the days of heroes.
• 
The Men of Dale and Woodmen she refers to as 
‘Middle-Men’ or ‘Men of Twilight’, to distinguish them 
from the Men of Númenor she knew of old, and the 
‘Men of Shadow’ who dwell in the East. They once had 
great kingdoms, but now they are a scattered people 
who do not remember their own great works.
• 
She claims to have known men like Beorn in the 
Second Age. They were dear to Oromë, she says, he 
who the Northmen call Béma, and learned secrets 
from his servants.  
• 
She rarely speaks to Dwarves, and then only when 
she must. She does speak of Moria’s glorious halls, 
which she visited long ago. Her bracelets were made 
there, and are inlaid with ithildin, moon-silver. It was 
a beautiful city, but the Dwarves were too greedy...
• 
Hobbits fascinate her. She has not seen any of the 
periando, as they are named in the Ancient Tongue, 
in many long years. They once dwelt in these parts, 
digging their little holes in the banks of the Great River. 
She does not know what happened to them; no doubt 
the Enemy drove them away.
Most of the words spoken by Irimë about her past hardly 
mean anything to adventurers who are not long-lived 
Elves, as the old lore of mortals runs only skin-deep in 
comparison to the life of the elven Lady. But something in 
her voice seems to awaken ancestral recollections in all 
who listen. 
• 
Every companion who spends any part of the journey 
listening to Irimë receives 100 bonus experience 
points, as visions of the past are stirred within their 
minds.
Playing Irimë
Irimë is one of the oldest creatures the companions are 
ever likely to meet. The long years weigh heavily on 
her. When playing the Elf, speak quietly and sadly. 
Look off into the distance, as though you can see 
things others cannot. Never smile, unless it is tinged 
with melancholy. 
A Darkness in the Present
After crossing the Old Ford and entering the wild lands 
west of the Anduin, the companions realise that they 
are being pursued by Orcs. Build this threat subtly. For 
example:
• 
The company’s Scout spots a small band of Orcs 
ahead of the company.
• 
The company’s Look-out spots cooking fires at night.
• 
Irimë extends her hand, and a sparrow lands on her 
finger. She whispers to it, and it tells her that Orcs are 
nearby.
A successful DC 15 Dexterity (Stealth) check lets the 
companions spy on their pursuers. They are being 
followed by a sizeable Orc warband, composed of at least 
two dozen Orcs, maybe more – certainly, too many for the 
company to fight with any hope of victory. These Orcs are 
not the same band that Legolas spoke of; more than one 
hunting party was sent out to find Irimë. 
Once the company discover they are being chased, they 
may decide to turn back and head for a Sanctuary like 
Those Who Tarry No Longer
3

--- PAGE 64 ---
Wilderland Adventures
64
Beorn’s house instead of risking the Road. If they do so, 
then the Orcs catch them before they reach safety (go to 
Part 3) — even if they stay ahead of their pursuers, there 
are more Orcs coming down from the Misty Mountains to 
catch them between hammer and anvil.
Flight to the Pass
These Orc warbands are not random misfortune – they 
are part of a greater design. The Gibbet King has sensed 
the presence of Irimë, and knows that her sorrow is her 
weakness. It sent the Orcs after her – and if they cannot 
capture her, the spirit will act directly... 
The company’s only chance is to press on and evade the 
enemy. For each of the three days of travel that separates 
them from the High Pass, the company‘s Scouts must 
make a Wisdom (Survival) check to find routes up the 
hillsides that are not being watched by Orcs. 
• 
On a successful roll, the company seems to gain 
ground, as they advance steadily along well-hidden 
paths. However, the DC for the check rises each time 
– the first is at DC 15, the second at DC 20, and the 
third as DC 21 as the orcs close in. 
• 
If the characters make three successful checks in a 
row, they manage to sneak past the orcs and reach 
the High Pass. Skip onto Part Five – The Ruins.
• 
If they fail a check, run Part Three – the Hill of Woe.
• 
Alternatively, if the characters alert Irimë to the 
danger posed by the orcs, and pass a DC 20 Charisma 
(Persuasion) check, she is convinced to put forth her 
power and summon aid immediately, even though she 
fears it will draw the attention of darker foes than orcs. 
 – Part Three – 
The Hill of Woe
As the darkness draws in, the Orcs come closer. The noose 
closes upon the adventurers. They know there are many 
Orcs on their trail, but then the company’s look-outs spot 
more Goblins coming down from the hills. There is no 
escape – all that is left to do is to choose a place to make a 
last stand.  A rocky outcrop is the most defensible spot in 
the area, see page 90 of the Loremaster’s Guide. They may 
hold out for a short time, but there is little hope of escape. 
See the Hill of Woe map on the back end papers.
Ask what preparations the company intend to make. Fire 
is a necessity, as the light is dying; the company might 
also scout around to survey the terrain, finding boulders 
to use in their defense (see page 91 of the Loremaster’s 
Guide). For her part, Irimë stands on the rock and sings 
in Elvish, a high-pitched keening chant that sounds like a 
funeral dirge. 
The Orcs Assemble
Instead of attacking straight away, the Orcs gather a short 
distance away in the gloom (just out of bow-range), and 
start their own yowling and shouting to drown out Irimë’s 
song. 
• 
The sight of so many Orcs requires a DC 10 Wisdom 
saving throw from each member of the company: 
failure to pass means the character is Frightened for 
the first d4 rounds of combat.
The Orc-captain shoves lesser goblins aside and strides 
forward to issue a challenge to the company: “Give us the 
elf-woman, and the rest of you can go!” The company can 
ignore the Orc, reject his (false) offer, or make their own 
response. A sufficiently brave response, coupled with a 
successful DC 25 Charisma (Intimidation) check can 
cow the Orcs, giving them Disadvantage in combat until 
the character who intimidated them is struck and takes 
damage.
The Assault
“Good! Tonight we eat man-flesh! Kill them all except the 
elf!” roars the Orc-captain, and he charges up the hill 
towards the company. A black tide of Orcs surges after 
him. The adventurers are outnumbered twenty to one, and 
all they can see is a wave of fangs and jagged swords and 
blood-shot eyes. But before battle is joined, something 
unexpected happens (read the following to the players):
Irimë raises her hand, and from the jewel of the ring she 
wears a bright light blooms, as if a star had uncloaked 
itself beside you. The blaze dismays the Orcs. Some turn 
and flee, and those in the lead must raise their shields to 
shade their eyes from the elf-light. The advantage is yours!
2

--- PAGE 65 ---
65
While the Orcs seem terrified by the light, the companions 
feel heartened by the blaze: any companion who is 
Frightened may immediately make another DC 10 
Wisdom saving throw to remove the condition.
The Battle of the Hilltop
Irimë’s blaze of light means the Orcs are Surprised, and 
gives them Advantage in the first round of combat. But it 
does not stop the Orc attack. There is a host of Orcs here, 
far too many for the company to defeat. Each time an Orc 
falls, another takes its place. Appear merciless – evoke 
the feeling that the companions’ doom is at hand. Use the 
following episodes as examples to set the pace:
• 
Three Black Uruks form a shield-wall and start 
marching up the hill, trying to force a wedge between 
members of the company and prevent the companions 
from fighting side by side. How do the adventurers 
break this shield-wall?
• 
One suicidally brave Goblin leaps over the front lines 
and attacks the rear guard (this Goblin has the Great 
Leap shadow ability). Who deals with this intruder?
• 
Another Orc Soldier carries a jar of some vile 
concoction; it looks like tar, but clings and burns 
without heat or fire. The Orc tries to hurl it into the 
face and eyes of one of the companions; if this attack 
hits, the companion is blinded and for the rest of the 
fight, and his vision is restored only with a successful 
DC 13 Wisdom (Medicine) check..
Keep up this relentless assault until at least six rounds of 
combat have passed, or until two members of the company 
are unconscious. Award XP for defeated foes as normal.
The Eagles
When it seems that all hope is lost and the company 
will soon be defeated, the defenders feel a wind rush by 
overhead, and they hear the beating of tremendous wings. 
The Orcs fall back in terror as a flight of gigantic birds 
swoops upon them from above! First Irimë, then any other 
wounded companions, and finally any who are still able 
to fight are picked up by the Great Eagles of the Misty 
Mountains. Other Eagles grab Orcs inn their talons and 
fly off with them, then drop them from a great height to 
break on the rocks below. The Orc captain roars to rally 
his troops: “Stand and fight, you maggots! They’re only 
feathery cows!” He grabs a huge black bow and looses an 
arrow at one of the departing Eagles. The arrow flights 
straight and true, piercing the Eagle’s breast. The bird 
does not fall, but its flight becomes more laboured.
The Eagles fly the company into the mountains. The 
flight would be terrifying if the company could see their 
surroundings, but in the darkness, all they can feel is the 
Those Who Tarry No Longer

--- PAGE 66 ---
Wilderland Adventures
66
rush of the wind and the beating of the Eagles’ wings. The 
bird carrying the companion with the heaviest armour 
and other gear makes several cutting remarks about the 
adventurer’s weight and choice of armour, but all the 
Eagles manage to escape the hail of Orc-arrows and fly 
off into the night.
After a short but exhilarating flight, the Eagles bring the 
company to their eyries.
The Eagles are Coming!
As Tolkien himself remarked in several instances, 
the Great Eagles are a dangerous storytelling device. 
An intervention on their part can be easily seen as 
stripping the players of their chance to influence the 
course of the adventure. To avoid this feeling on the 
players’ part, you could try to personalize the reasons 
for the intervention of the Great Eagles, exploiting 
any suggestions coming from the players themselves. 
For example, is there a Dwarf in the company with a 
raven friend? The bird could have gone, or have been 
sent, in search of help, finding the Eagles. Or did a 
companion blow a horn before battle was joined, or 
made something that could be noticed? Did the heroes 
meet the Eagles before, or are they friends with 
Radagast? Even if Irimë’s song could explain their 
arrival, adding a modicum of player-driven elements 
can only improve the result.
– Part Four – 
A Guest of Eagles 
Dawn finds the company on a narrow stony ledge, high 
in the mountains. Companions who know the mountains 
well (or who have studied maps in Dale, Erebor or 
Hobbiton that showed Thorin’s journey) might deduce 
they are not at the main eyrie of the Eagles, but at some 
other outpost nearby. 
The Lord of the Eagles arrives shortly after they wake. 
With a wingspan of more than 100 feet, his arrival is a 
sight to behold. He lands on the edge of the platform, his 
dwarf-wrought golden crown glittering in the morning 
light. He addresses Irimë first of all, and she thanks him 
for heeding her prayers.
“We heard your song on the wind, but it was the light that 
guided us to you. Long has there been friendship between 
your kind and mine, and we came when we were needed.”
Next, the Lord of the Eagles turns to the companions.
“Gaerthor, one of my chieftains, was grievously wounded 
as he rescued you from the Orcs. Tell me, whose lives did 
he buy with his courage?”
Motivation
To discover the worthiness of the company. 
Expectations
+2: Two-legged folk are of little merit to the Eagles. (If the 
characters offer – and succeed – in treating Gaerthor’s 
wound.)
+1: All are enemies of the one Enemy (the characters 
defeated many orcs)
-1: Bows get in the way of hunting sheep (if the characters 
object to the eagles stealing sheep and goats from the 
farmsteads of the Anduin valley)
-2: The Lady Irimë is to be honoured (if the characters 
blame Irimë for their plight)
Interaction
Offering to help the wounded Eagle requires a DC 15 
Charisma (Persuasion) check – the Lord of the Eagles is 
hesitant to trust outsiders (see Healing Gaerthor, below). 
As far as the return of the adventurers to their journey is 
concerned, the Lord of the Eagles initially refuses to carry 
any companion wearing heavy armour, arguing that the 
weight is too great for his fellows to bear except in great 
need. He argues his point further, adding that he does not 
see why adventurers should walk around wearing all that 
iron (“how will you ever fly, weighed down as you are?”). 
Arguing with the King of All Birds imposes a -1 modifier 
to the Final Audience Check. Exchanging news gets the 
company an interesting perspective on recent events. The 
Eagle explains that something has stirred up the Orcs in 
recent weeks. Heroes with similar tales add a +1 modifier 
to the Final Audience Check.
4

--- PAGE 67 ---
67
The Lord of the Eagles considers Elves and Dwarves as 
Friendly, whilst all other cultures are Neutral, other than 
Beornings and Woodmen of which he is Mistrustful (due 
to their bows).
The Final Audience Check may yield the following results:
Failure: The Lord of the Eagles commands that the company 
be dropped off back on the main road. The adventurers face 
another day of march before they reach the pass.
Success by 0-2: The company convinces the Eagles to 
leave them higher up in the hills, closer to the pass (see 
Part Five: The Ruins below). He will not carry them over 
the mountains.
Success by 3-5: As above, but the Lord of the Eagles adds 
the following: on his more far-reaching flights, he has seen 
something in the West Nether Vales, a new fortress on the 
moors south of the River Gladden. He does not know what 
it is, but he dislikes it.
6 or more: As 3-5 above, and the Lord promises that if the 
companions call, he will come to their aid if they are within 
his reach: this lets the company call upon the Eagles once 
during the adventure while within fifty miles of the Eyrie.
Healing Gaerthor
If he agrees to let a companion attend Gaerthor, the 
adventurer faces a difficult challenge – removing the 
Orc-arrow requires a Wisdom (medicine) roll (DC 20). 
Succeeding at this feat gains the favour of Gaerthor: if 
called, the Great Eagle will come to the aid of the company 
once during the adventure (as for the “6 or more” entry 
above, but limited to Gaerthor only).
Departure
Once the company are ready to leave, Irimë bids farewell 
to the Lord of the Eagles, and the adventurers embark 
on a new flight. The journey down the mountain is 
more pleasant than the flight up, assuming one equates 
‘pleasant’ with ‘being able to see instead of flying blindly 
in the dark’. The company can see all of Wilderland laid 
out beneath them, like an astoundingly detailed map. In 
the distance, there is the shadow of Mirkwood, then there 
is the silver ribbon of the Anduin, its green vales, and then 
the towering wall of the Misty Mountains.
The Eagles drop the company off either on the road 
leading to the High Pass (one day away), or else half-way 
along, close to the spot where Irimë is to meet the riders 
from Rivendell (the Mountain ruins, see Part Five below), 
depending on the outcome of the encounter.
– Part Five – 
The Ruins
Sooner or later, the company arrives at the ruins of an 
old town. If the companions played through Of Leaves 
& Stewed Hobbit, they recognise the tumbled stones as 
Elendil’s Camp — the place where they fought the Night-
Wight. Irimë also remembers this place, but hers is a 
different memory.
“I have been here before. This was Haycombe, the trader’s 
town leading to the Cirith Forn en Andrath. It was built 
by Middle-Men with golden hair who traded over the 
Mountains. They were a kind folk. They held a market 
here, and my kin from Lindon would come sometimes, 
and we would dance in the snow. The Men would laugh 
to see us run.”
“They are gone, now. Some went South, with a brave 
chieftain called Eorl. Others stayed, until the shadow in 
the forest reached out and destroyed them. Treachery 
brought the enemy into the town, his horrors took the 
people here as slaves, and then there was no more laughter 
in the pass.” 
Irimë explains that this is where she is to meet the 
emissaries from Rivendell. She suggests that the company 
make camp here and rest. If the companions are worried 
about Night-Wights, then they can instead camp in a 
less comfortable but more defensible position in the 
surrounding hillside. 
Twilight
Again, the evening draws in. Irimë does not sleep; instead, 
she wanders the hillside, following the unseen path of 
streets that were buried centuries ago. She steps lightly 
over snowfalls, remembering her vanished kin, and the 
lights of the market. As the stars come out overhead, she 
raises her voice in a song to Elbereth Starkindler.
Those Who Tarry No Longer
1

--- PAGE 68 ---
Wilderland Adventures
68
• 
Neither she nor the company are aware of the coming 
danger. No mortal Look-out could give warning of 
what approaches them. Its Orcs having failed, the 
Gibbet King has left its refuge near the Gladden Fields 
and comes to attack Irimë directly. This is not a foe 
that can be fought with swords; it is a wraith-creature, 
a spiteful spirit, a thing of shadow. 
If the company have a Look-out, then the first sign of the 
spirit is a feeling of unnatural coldness. This is not the chill 
of the mountain air, but the clammy cold of sickness. A 
shadow slithers through the night. Off in the distance, the 
Look-out sees Irimë glimmering softly, as if surrounded 
by a moonlit radiance – and then the shadow is upon her, 
suffocating her light. Irimë casts a single desperate glance 
back towards the sleeping adventurers... and then utter 
darkness falls upon the whole company. 
Irimë’s Dream
The next part of this adventure takes place in a dream of 
sorts. On one level, Irimë is struggling with the Gibbet King 
as it tries to consume her spirit. She is not strong enough 
to resist alone, so she is drawing on the companions to aid 
her. The companions experience this spiritual struggle as 
a dream-like state as they are all drawn into the wraith-
world. (A close comparison for what is happening to them 
would be the Hobbits’ experiences in the Barrow-Downs, 
where Merry dreamt of being a Man of the North who 
perished in battle with the forces of Angmar). 
Set between Worlds
In the physical world, the companions are all asleep (also 
the adventurers who were on look-out or still awake for 
any reason). In the wraith-world, Irimë battles the spirit. 
Being mortals(1), the companions cannot perceive the 
wraith-world directly, and so they dream. 
Time flows differently in dreams. Events may seem to 
take weeks or months, but only a few minutes pass in 
the waking world. Expenditures of Inspiration within the 
dream are real, as are Shadow point gains, but hit point 
damage vanishes when a companion awakens. Similarly, 
any Exhaustion accrued in the dream disappears when the 
hero wakes up. Any companion who is killed in the dream 
does not immediately awaken, but is instead trapped in 
a terrifying darkness for some time and then awakens, 
having gained two levels of Exhaustion and 1d6 Shadow 
points (see also the Slain Companions sidebar on page 71). 
Telling other people in the dream that they are dreaming is 
futile, as is trying to wake up or to control the dream. 
From time to time over the course of this dream, the 
Loremaster should describe how the companions 
sometimes glimpse the waking world. They stir in their 
sleep, and see Irimë wrestling with the spirit in the 
darkness, but then plunge back into the dream.
The Dream Begins
The companions awaken, exactly where they fell asleep, 
in the same positions on the mountainside. All their 
equipment and weapons are at hand. The mountainside, 
though, has changed. Where once there was an old and 
ill-maintained track, there is now a well-travelled road. 
Where once there were ruined walls and fallen stones, 
there is a town called Haycombe. While it is but a small 
town compared to the great cities of the South, it is a far 
larger settlement than any that exist in Wilderland today, 
save perhaps Esgaroth or Dale. It is protected by high 
walls of timber. 
The company can hear the sound of laughter and the 
bustle of a market from inside the town, and it is clear that 
many travellers have gathered here. Entering the town, 
the companions are greeted by a crowd of tow-headed 
children, who swirl around them and start pestering them 
with questions: who are they? Where did they come from? 
Exploring the town, the dreaming companions realise that 
every sight and sound feels familiar to them, as though 
they belong to this place and time. Should they address 
any villager they discover that they not only perfectly 
comprehend their language, but they speak it fluently too. 
They are greeted warmly by the locals, who appear to 
be of the same stock as the Woodmen, although most 
seem to travel on horseback or else delight in feats of 
(1) Elves of Mirkwood are not mortals, but are of lesser ‘spiritual stature’ compared to a Noldo like Galadriel, Irimë or Glorfindel. Any Elf companions, 
Dunedain with the See the Unseen Virtue, or scholars with the secrets of Ancient Lore or Dark Knowledge, may be able to recognise the dream for 
what it is, but cannot escape it.

--- PAGE 69 ---
69
horsemanship; they are clearly horse-tamers and riders, 
and even refer to themselves as the Éothéod, the horse 
people. In the centre of town is a large square, where the 
market is held. The square is crowded with merchants, 
traders and travellers from across the North. 
The Alehouse
A building stands out from other houses for the signboard 
swinging over its door, showing a scrawny goat falling 
down a cliff. The Falling Goat is a alehouse and inn, and 
offers the companions a good place to rest and consider 
what is happening. 
The place is not especially crowded when the companions 
arrive, as most people are at the market in the main 
square. There are four people in the alehouse who are of 
especial importance in the dream.
Aldor: The place has been run by Aldor since he started 
brewing ale for his neighbours many years before; today 
he is an old greybeard who has lived in the town all his 
life. He greets the companions as he hurries around the 
crowded alehouse. Aldor is a storehouse of tales, rumours 
and stories about Wilderland, both truthful and ‘enriched’ 
by his vivid imagination. He is an old man, the count of 
his years writ in wrinkles on his face.
“Welcome, welcome good folk. Here for the market, no 
doubt. Sit, have a drink, and rest here a while. Have you 
come from the south? Any word of the Master’s return? 
I’ve heard tell he’s on the road, but news is hard to come 
by of late.”
Playing Aldor: Everything reminds you of something from 
your youth, or a story someone told you. Stroke your 
beard. Groan a little when you move; you’re old.
Geb: Also in the alehouse is a wandering minstrel and 
trickster called Geb, a Woodman. He is a rogue and a 
charmer, and is drawn to any comely women among the 
company; failing that, he identifies the richest-looking 
companion and starts trying to wheedle money out of them.
“Noble travellers, you look like the sort who’d have a 
coin or two to spare. It’s good luck to pay a minstrel, you 
know. Give me a coin and I’ll sing you a song of Scatha the 
Worm, and brave Fram the Dragonslayer!”
Playing Geb: Never say what you actually feel; cloak 
everything in glib words. Let others take the risks; save 
your own skin if you have the chance. Smile and tell jokes; 
even when you are in grave danger, you can use morbid 
humour.
Haleth: One of the older children from the crowd outside 
keeps following the company wherever they go. This child 
of eleven years is named Haleth, and he dreams of being a 
warrior. He attaches himself to the most heroic-looking of 
the player characters.
“Have you a squire, sir? I could be your squire. I’d polish 
your armour and keep your sword sharp. My father is 
the captain of the Master’s guards, and he’s gone away 
South, but when he comes back I’m sure he’ll tell you how 
brave I am.”
Playing Haleth: Don’t be an annoying kid. Hero-worship 
the companions, but don’t play him as a fool. Bergil son of 
Beregond (see The Lord of the Rings, V:I) is a good model 
to follow. Keep your eyes as wide as possible. 
Rodwen: If the company seek out Elves (perhaps in 
the hope of finding a past version of Irimë), then they 
encounter Rodwen, an Elf from Mirkwood. She travelled 
west from the forest to visit the market as an emissary of 
King Thranduil. Unusually for her kind, she enjoys the 
company of mortals, and finds them entertaining. 
“The shadow never truly departed our forest, and I do not 
know if the present trouble is but a passing darkness, or if 
some power has once again inhabited Dol Guldur.”
Playing Rodwen: Be fascinated by anything that mortals 
do. Take a detached perspective on events. Pause before 
speaking.
The Inn 
The Falling Goat was originally Aldor’s family house. It 
has a large common-room on the ground floor, with a 
half-dozen tables, benches and a blazing log-fire. Next 
to the common-room is a kitchen; off to the side are two 
private parlours. Upstairs, there are small sleeping rooms 
for guests.
Those Who Tarry No Longer

--- PAGE 70 ---
Wilderland Adventures
70
Rumours in the Inn 
Asking around gets the company some sense of where – 
and when – they are:
• 
The lord of this people is named Heáfod; Woodmen 
and Beornings or Scholars with proficiency in Lore 
recognise this as a name out of Mannish legend, 
belonging to a time when a powerful Northman nation 
ruled the northernmost vales of the Great River.
• 
Many travellers have brought word of a new darkness 
in the great wood to the east. For many years, there 
had been a respite, and it was hoped that the shadow 
had departed Mirkwood. Recently, the tales claim, 
there has been smoke and foulness issuing from the 
Hill of Sorcery in Southern Mirkwood. 
• 
Some months ago, the Alderman of Haycombe, one 
of Heáfod’s most trusted followers, went on a journey 
south to survey the Hill of Sorcery, and to see for himself 
if there is any truth to these tales of a new shadow. 
• 
Despite these rumours, the mood in the town is merry. 
While little trade comes over the mountains these 
years, the town still attracts merchants from the South. 
From these stories, and from the manner of the people, 
the company can work out that they are witnessing events 
that transpired some five hundred years ago. It is a good 
idea to have one of the companions stir in their sleep at 
this point, see Irimë and the spirit, and realise that not all 
is as it seems. 
Return of the Alderman
Once the companions have had a chance to gather some 
information, and have met some of the other characters 
in the inn, they hear the sound of a commotion outside. 
From the shouts and excited conversation, they hear 
that the Alderman of Haycombe has returned from his 
journey south! The crowd outside is too thick to easily 
push through, so Haleth suggests the company watch the 
procession from the upper level of the inn, which overlooks 
the main square.
If the company do not already know, Haleth tells them 
that the Alderman of the town went away south some 
weeks ago, and is now returning. If the company shove 
through the crowd, or if they watch with Haleth from 
upstairs, they see the Alderman’s caravan approach. 
At the head of the procession is the Alderman’s golden 
wagon, accompanied by the guards he took South with 
him. He is followed then by a large number of men in 
strange red armour.
• 
As the procession grows closer, call for DC 10 
Wisdom (Insight) checks from the company. Those 
who succeed have a growing sense of danger, as if 
disaster is about to strike. A great or extraordinary 
success lets a companion catch a weak breath of 
foul air coming from the caravan, the smell of things 
long-dead, along with the realisation that all the 
Alderman’s guards have pallid skin, blank white eyes, 
and shamble rather than march.
The procession stops in the middle of the market square. 
The crowd draws in close to hear the Alderman of the town. 
The Alderman – a tall man, wearing an exceptionally fine 
torc of gold and well-made armour – stands and raises 
his hands. “People of Haycombe! People of the North!” he 
announces. “Your true lord has returned!”
And then the killing begins.
Fate of the Alderman 
The Alderman of Haycombe was a victim of the Necromancer, who reclaimed Dol Guldur around the year 2460. 
When he travelled south with his retinue he was captured by the Necromancer and driven insane. His guards were 
tormented and murdered, and then raised again as undead warriors. Then, the Alderman was sent back with a 
contingent of Men from the East to destroy his town. The Necromancer had a deeper plan than mere malice – the 
destruction of the town would leave the High Pass unguarded and unprotected. With one hand, he removed Haycombe; 
with the other, he summoned Orcs out of Mound Gundabad to block the pass, and thus divide the North.
1
1

--- PAGE 71 ---
71
Siege of the Inn 
The men in red armour are Easterling warriors. They 
are the first to strike: they attack with shocking speed, 
targeting any warriors within reach of their weapons. 
The guards of the Alderman are revealed for what they 
are: walking corpses, animated by dread sorcery. They 
attack the crowd, spreading panic like wildfire. Over the 
carnage, the companions can hear the insane laughter of 
the Alderman of the town. 
Undead warriors stumble towards the inn; now is the 
time for swords! The companions are probably inside the 
alehouse, with Aldor, Geb, Haleth and others they might 
have met so far. Refer to the Inn Map on the back end 
papers.
• 
Barricading the Inn: Companions who think to 
fortify the inn by blocking windows and locking 
doors gain Advantage as long as they hold the inn; 
the building’s walls are strong and this is a good 
place to hold out.
• 
Battling the Undead & Easterlings: There is a 
host of foes, too many to overcome. The first wave 
of attackers consists of undead warriors that lumber 
clumsily towards the company. The undead are 
ungainly, but are possessed of fearsome strength. 
Worse, wounding them is not always enough – they 
keep coming even after taking blows that would kill a 
mortal man.
If the company kill the undead (there are two undead 
warriors per companion), then the Easterlings join the 
fray. These savage men fight with great axes, and speak in a 
foreign tongue that sounds like a harsh bark to Northmen 
ears. If the company defeat some of the Easterlings, the 
others fall back and set the inn’s roof alight. The company 
are then forced to choose between surrender and burning 
to death – no victory is possible here — the town is doomed. 
But who knows what opportunities will come later... 
If a companion is reduced to 0 hit points in this struggle, 
he momentarily wakes up and sees Irimë struggling with 
the spirit on the mountainside. Keep dropping references 
to the waking world into the dream when possible, to 
remind the players of their true situation.
Slain Companions
If a companion dies here, or later in Dol Guldur, the 
Loremaster has several options to keep the player in the 
game. The player could temporarily take on another 
character, like Geb, Rodwen, Aldor or Haleth. There 
is no need for game statistics for these temporary 
characters. The character could awaken in the present 
day, and find his companions locked in a trance while 
Irimë battles the spirit. Optionally, you could present 
challenges for that companion, like keeping the 
entranced companions alive and warm when it begins 
to snow, or having goblins creep out of the hills and 
menace the helpless dreamers.
Undead Warriors
Once young and valorous men, the guards of the 
Alderman have been stripped of their lives and will by the 
Necromancer’s dark arts. Their shrivelled bodies are all 
that is left of them.
Undead Warriors
Medium undead
STR 
13 (+1)
DEX 
8 (-1)
CON 
12 (+1)
INT 
3 (-4)
WIS 
7 (-1)
CHA 
3 (-4)
Armour Class 9
Hit Points 27 (5d8+5)
Speed 20 ft
Damage Immunities poison
Condition Immunities Charmed, Exhaustion, Poisoned
Senses passive Perception 9
Languages None
Challenge ½ (100 XP)
Fell Spirit (Recharge 5-6). When the Undead Warrior 
would be reduced to 0 hit points, it may use its reaction to 
add 7 (2d6) temporary hit points.
Actions
Bony Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 8 (2d6+1) slashing damage.
Those Who Tarry No Longer
1

--- PAGE 72 ---
Wilderland Adventures
72
Easterlings
These men are mercenaries from the plains to the distant 
East, drawn to Dol Guldur with promises of bloodshed 
and fortune. 
Easterling Warriors
Medium human
STR 
14 (+2)
DEX 
13 (+1)
CON 
12 (+1)
INT 
11 (+0)
WIS 
12 (+1)
CHA 
8 (-1)
Armour Class 14 (corslet of mail)
Hit Points 22 (4d8+4)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Perception +3, Survival +3
Senses passive Perception 13
Languages Westron, Easterling
Challenge ½ (100 XP)
Actions
Great Axe: Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., 
one target. Hit: 8 (1d12+2) slashing damage.
The Journey South
The dreaming companions are sharing the fate that befell 
the villagers of Haycombe almost five centuries ago: they 
are made prisoners by the Easterlings, and they find 
themselves chained together with the others – Aldor, Geb, 
Haleth and the Elf Rodwen – and forced to march south 
for many long days. 
Along the hard march, those slaves who cannot keep up are 
whipped; those who fall are left to die when where they lie. 
More than a thousand prisoners were taken in the sack of 
Haycombe, but less than five hundred survived the grim 
march south. The Easterlings drive the slaves quickly, and 
use long horse-leather whips when necessary, but they are 
not needlessly cruel. They do not torture their prisoners, 
nor make sport of them.
The days pass swiftly in the dream, like one moment of 
horror drawn out endlessly. Before the company know it, 
they have passed the Gladden Fields and are being driven 
south towards Dol Guldur. As the slave caravan passes the 
Narrows of the Forest, though, the Easterlings are met by 
a column of Orcs. The Easterlings leave the slaves in the 
tender care of the Orcs; the Men march east into the forest, 
while the Orcs whip the slaves south.
By the time Dol Guldur, the Hill of Sorcery, is in sight, all 
the companions will have multiple levels of Exhaustion, 
and the other prisoners are equally weary. Aldor, in 
particular, suffers from a terrible fever and wracking 
cough. The prisoners are driven into a dark tunnel that 
runs under the forest into the dungeons beneath the hill. 
They vanish into darkness. 
A Glimpse of Irimë
An Elf, or else the companion with the highest Wisdom, 
wakes for a moment and sees Irimë contending with the 
spirit. Irimë has the strength to whisper a warning to the 
character. “A spirit of despair – it has entrapped us all in 
sorcery! It will consume us if we cannot defeat it!”
– Part Six – 
Dark Dreams
The company are thrown into a lightless, noisome pit, their 
weapons and gear taken from them, together with Aldor, 
Geb, Haleth and Rodwen. They must be deep beneath Dol 
Guldur, the dreaded fortress of the Necromancer. The cell 
is cold and partially flooded with foul water that stings 
the skin. There is a single door, locked from the far side, 
and opened only when the Orc-guards throw in a few 
lumps of mouldy bread or bowls of some grey gruel. In 
the distance, the companions can hear screams and the 
sounds of lamentation.
At times, from far below, the companions hear noises, 
as of some tremendous machinery. At other times, they 
feel unreasoning, unrelenting terror, a feeling of fear so 
overwhelming that they can do nothing but cower. The 
air is tainted, choked with smoke, or with caustic fumes. 
The companions now face foes that cannot be fought with 
force of arms, but are none the less deadly: sickness, fear 
and suffering.
• 
Call for Corruption tests now and after each of the 
following scenes. The DC for these Wisdom saving 
throws starts at DC 8. If the companions are unable 
to keep their spirits up, then the DC for the Corruption 
tests rises by 2 with each test. Ask the players how

--- PAGE 73 ---
73
their characters endure this endless darkness, and 
how they intend to stave off despair and madness. 
This is a time for skills like Performance, as well 
as the invocation of suitable backgrounds and good 
roleplaying. The players should also include the other 
four prisoners – if the other prisoners succumb to 
despair, then it gets even harder to avoid Corruption.
For example, a company of adventurers are trapped 
in the dream. The players decide that, as nothing 
here is real, they will just wait until they wake up. As 
they are doing nothing to keep their spirits up, the DC 
for the next corruption test rises to DC 10. Next, the 
Loremaster describes how Aldor is dying of a fever. The 
company manage to keep Aldor alive by getting the old 
man to remember happier days in lost Haycombe. The 
Loremaster decides that this counts as keeping their 
spirits up, so the third Corruption check stays at DC 10. 
Escape?
Escaping the dungeons of the Necromancer is 
impossible in the dream: all the prisoners from 
Haycombe found their fate in Dol Guldur. The 
companions can try if they wish, and the first attempt 
counts towards keeping their spirits up. However, 
there is no way to succeed – even if they were to 
somehow overpower the Orc-guards, there are far 
worse things in these dungeons. 
Aldor’s Sickness
Old Aldor fell sick on the journey south, and barely made 
it to Dol Guldur alive. The old man is dying of a fever. If the 
company point his illness out to the guards, then the Orcs 
march into the cell and pour a vile brown-orange liquid 
down his throat that makes him convulse and vomit, but 
does not break the fever.
The only way to save Aldor is with Wisdom (Medicine) 
checks. A prolonged series of rolls are needed to keep him 
alive. The DC for these tests is the same as the DC for the 
Corruption checks. Remind the healer that he must spend 
hours every day nursing a dying man. Aldor is going to 
perish anyway – why waste time on him?
Geb’s Betrayal
The door to the cell opens, and a Woodman walks in 
bearing a tray of food. This is good food, not the gruel and 
Orc-bread the company has eaten for many weeks – meat 
and roasted vegetables and good ale. The Woodman is a 
tall and handsome young man who introduces himself as 
Annatar, and offers food to the company.
“There’s no need for you to suffer down here. The Master 
of this place has many Men in his service – aye, and 
Dwarves too, and other folk. Kneel to him, accept him as 
your lord, and you shall be given a place of honour in his 
service. Think on this offer, friends – it is better to live than 
to die, is it not?”
Annatar leaves the food for the company, then departs, 
saying:
“I shall return tomorrow – give me your answers then.” 
Let the company debate the wisdom of serving the 
Necromancer. Of the other prisoners, Aldor is too weak to 
serve, Haleth refuses, and the Necromancer would never 
permit an Elf – even a Wood-elf – to live. However, the 
minstrel Geb is tempted by the offer.
“I don’t want to die here in the dark, simple as that. What 
difference does it make who I kneel to, or what oaths I 
swear. Can you eat honour? Will valour keep you warm in 
this dungeon?”
The company can try to argue him out of serving, or suggest 
that he put his talent for deception to good use and pretend 
to serve the Necromancer. Again, the DC for any tests is 
equal to the DC for the ongoing Corruption checks.
Those Who Kneel
If a player character agrees to serve the Necromancer, 
that character gains 5 Shadow points immediately. 
The companion is taken from the dungeon cell – and 
remembers nothing more until the dream ends, except a 
dim memory of horrors and the feeling of being watched.
Geb the Servant
If Geb chooses to serve the Necromancer honestly, then 
the next time the companions see him in the dream, he is 
dressed in fine armour and is in the company of a band 
Those Who Tarry No Longer
1/2
2

--- PAGE 74 ---
Wilderland Adventures
74
of other cruel guards. He never acknowledges his former 
cell-mates, and the light has gone from his eyes.
Geb the Trickster
If Geb chooses to serve the Necromancer, but is secretly 
planning to help the characters, then he can help them 
with a single task, like smuggling in medicine for Aldor. 
However, he is caught and executed shortly afterwards. 
Haleth’s Death
Orcs burst into the cell and point at the companion with 
the highest Strength. 
“The lads want some sport. You’re coming with us, slave!”
The companion is dragged out of the cell and a sack is 
pulled over his head. The Orcs pull him through endless 
corridors and forge-hot chambers until he is thrown down 
onto a sandy floor. The bag is removed, and the companion 
finds himself on lying in the middle of an arena. A crowd 
of Orcs jeers at him from a ring of stone benches around 
the arena. On the far side of the ring is a portcullis. There 
is something behind it, something that snorts like a bull 
and moves like a lumbering mountain – a Hill-troll!
One of the Orcs throws down a sword or other weapon 
to the companion. The portcullis cranks open, and the 
Troll emerges blinking into the firelight. When it scents the 
companion, it roars a challenge and slams its mighty fists 
into the ground.
The chances of a lone, unarmoured warrior defeating 
a Hill-troll in single combat are remote, but let the 
companion try nonetheless. If the companion is knocked 
out in the fight, he is thrown back into the cell; if he dies 
here, he awakens from the dream. On the incredible 
chance that the companion beats the Hill-troll, then the 
Orcs return the prisoner to the cell – skip right onto The 
Spirit. In this case, Haleth was slain by the orcs while the 
hero fought the troll.
After the fight, the Orcs return to the cell (possibly 
dragging the unconscious companion with them), and 
announce that it was so much fun, they are going to 
do it again tomorrow. One of the Orcs jabs a finger at 
the young boy, Haleth. “You’re next, boy! We’ll be back 
tomorrow night!”
Saving Haleth
The young man wanted to be a warrior, but he has never 
held a sword. The companions could spend the next few 
hours trying to prepare Haleth for what awaits him in the 
arena and teaching him the basics of combat. Alternatively, 
one of the other companions could volunteer to stand in 
for Haleth, if they can find a way of convincing the Orcs 
that the replacement offers more amusement than the 
sight of a boy being torn to pieces by a Troll. 
• 
If the companions choose to train Haleth, the teacher 
should roll either an Intelligence or Strength saving 
throw against the same DC as the ongoing Corruption 
tests. If successful, then the boy acquits himself well, 
and wounds the Troll in battle. Haleth dies, but he 
dies fighting bravely. If the saving throw succeeds by 
10 or more, he slays the Troll but is returned to the 
cell broken and dying. The Orcs return after the battle 
regardless of the outcome and throw the boy’s body 
into the cell. 
Awakening
By this time, any companions who have awoken see the 
first rosy fingers of dawn to the East. Irimë stands as she 
has stood all night long, locked in magical conflict with 
the spirit, but the frozen features of her face are flushed 
pink by the first light of the rising sun. The final phase of 
the struggle is at hand.
The Spirit
Back in the dream, the cell is suddenly filled with an eerie 
presence. An unearthly greenish light fills the chamber, 
and the companions see a thing of shadow looming over 
them. The spirit is vaguely man-shaped, like a shadow 
cast on a wall, but its outline shifts and warps as it moves. 
The spirit lashes out with fingers of darkness and seizes 
the Elf Rodwen. It holds her up by the throat, and shakes 
her. Her features change – one moment, she is Rodwen, 
the next, Irimë.
The spirit speaks through the dead body of Haleth. The 
boy’s broken, bloodied lips and smashed jaw move, and a 
sepulchral voice echoes from his dead mouth, addressing 
the adventurers.
“Do you know what the Noldor-witch has done? She dared 
not face me alone, so she dragged you into this dream to 
1

--- PAGE 75 ---
75
defend her. This has ever been the way of the High Elves – 
to use others as their pawns! They despise the race of Men, 
fearing your growing strength. They hate the Dwarves, 
and are jealous of your craft. Even their own kin they do 
not trust. I am more merciful than she. Leave her to her 
fate. Deny her, here and now, and you may awaken.”
Any companions who deny Irimë instantly awaken from 
the dream, but gain 3 Shadow points. 
The Final Challenge
Those who do not deny Irimë remain in the dream. “Share 
her fate then!” hisses the spirit through Haleth’s corpse. 
Utter darkness crashes down upon them: “Despair!” 
commands the spirit.
The following test is rolled to determine whether 
Irimë prevails over the Gibbet King or is conquered by 
desperation. The difficulty of the roll depends on how well 
the companions have managed to endure the torments of 
the dream; the starting DC for the test is the same as the 
Corruption test DC, and is modified as follows: 
• 
Add +2 to the DC if Aldor is dead. 
• 
Add +2 to the DC if Geb betrayed the company.
• 
Add +2 to the DC if Haleth did not die bravely. 
This is a group check; at least half the companions must 
pass a Wisdom saving throw for Irimë to succeed.
If Irimë fails
The companions find themselves back in the waking 
world. A cloud passes in front of the rising sun, casting 
a shadow over the Mountains. Irimë collapses to the 
ground, unconscious. Her skin becomes pale and wan, 
and her eyes are blank and lifeless. All her power is gone. 
The spirit was victorious. It flees the High Pass before the 
sons of Elrond arrive, carrying its prize back south to its 
hidden fortress.
If Irimë succeeds
The companions find themselves back in the waking 
world. They see Irimë standing before the rising sun. A 
shadowy horror hangs in the air, lashing her with fingers 
of darkness, but she is unafraid. She lifts her hand, and 
it is as though the dawn shines through her fingers. The 
spirit wails and vanishes as the morning breaks over 
Wilderland. 
– Part Seven – 
Dawn in the West
At the breaking of dawn, a company of travellers 
approaches from the west, led by two Elf-Lords who are 
alike in appearance and garb, dark-haired, grey-eyed, 
their faces elven-fair, clad in bright mail beneath cloaks 
of silver-grey. These are Elladan and Elrohir, the sons of 
Elrond. 
Those Who Tarry No Longer
5

--- PAGE 76 ---
Wilderland Adventures
76
Irimë failed
If the spirit defeated Irimë, then Elladan races to her side. 
He presses the cold steel of his vambrace to her lips, to see 
if she still draws breath.
“What has happened here?” he asks. “She still lives, but all 
her strength is gone from her.”
When the company explain the events of the dream, he 
nods in understanding.
“An evil spirit assailed her, and she was unable to defeat it. 
Her body is here, but her mind wanders a dark labyrinth 
and may never return. We shall take her to my father’s 
house, where she may find healing.”
The two brothers place Irimë’s unconscious form on a 
horse, and turn back for Rivendell. One of the other Elves 
stays to bid farewell to the company, and to offer them 
help and healing if they need it. 
Irimë succeeded
Elladan and Elrohir rush up to Irimë’s side. They explain 
that they sensed a dark presence, and came as quickly as 
they could. Irimë assures them she is safe.
“A spirit attacked us in the night. Some ghost out of Dol 
Guldur, perhaps. It tried to destroy us...” She smiles at the 
companions for the first time. “But it seems there is still 
strength and fire in the hearts of the Free Peoples. These 
companions aided me in my struggle, preserving hope 
when all hope seemed lost. I spoke truly when I said our 
meeting was ordained by the stars.”
She tells the company that she will continue on to 
Rivendell, and urges them to bring word to the wizard 
Radagast of their experiences. 
“The spirit was driven off, not destroyed. I did not think 
such evil things were abroad in this age of the world, but I 
was wrong. Darkness is coming, I fear, and I have not the 
strength to fight again. I go into the West, but I leave you 
with my blessing, for what it is worth.”
The Lady bestows her blessing upon all the companions 
who impressed her during their first meeting (see page 
62) and upon those who distinguished themselves in the 
wraith-world: from now on they will be recognised as Elf-
friends (see page 102 of the Player’s Guide) and gain a 
new ability. 
Blessed by the First-born
...I see you are an Elf-friend; the light in your eyes and the 
ring in your voice tells it.
Once per adventuring phase, you may invoke the name 
of Elbereth and gain Inspiration. You may only do this at 
night when you can see the stars coming out, or when you 
are in a dark place and in need of hope.
The Journey Home
The path down the mountainside is eerily familiar – 
the company travelled this way before, when they were 
chained prisoners in the dream. When they pass the 
ruins of the market town, they remember the buildings as 
they once were, and can almost hear the laughter of the 
children in the streets. 
Whether it was defeated or victorious, there is no sign of 
the spirit or its Orc servants. They have fled away south – 
and finding them is another tale. For now, the company’s 
path lies east, to Rhosgobel or some other destination. The 
Road leads ever on...
Fellowship Phase
Although it is many leagues away, the company may travel 
to the halls of the Elvenking and claim a more mundane 
reward there. Galion promised that Thranduil would 
recompense the adventurers for their efforts in protecting 
Irimë. 
• 
If Irimë survived the journey, then Thranduil gives 
them a pouch of white gemstones (worth 200 sp) 
as a reward, and they may stay in his halls during 
the Fellowship Phase. If Irimë perished, then they 
get a paltry reward, and the Elvenking’s hall is not a 
welcoming place for them. 
If allowed to remain, the company can use Open 
Sanctuary at Thranduil’s Halls, or try to gain Thranduil 
as a patron. This is also an excellent place to Heal 
Corruption.
3

--- PAGE 77 ---
77
- a Darkness - 
in the Marshes 
For Heroes of level 4 or 5
• 
When: The company may undertake this quest at 
any time in any year from 2946 onwards. However, 
it works best as a sequel to Those Who Tarry No 
Longer. 
• 
Where: The adventure begins at Rhosgobel. The 
wizard Radagast has learned of a strange threat in 
the west; he sends the companions to Mountain 
Hall, hoping that the Woodmen know more. From 
there, the company travels into the marshes of the 
Gladden Fields. 
• 
What: News has come to Radagast of a growing 
danger somewhere west of the Great River. The Orcs 
who attacked the Lady Irimë were in league with 
this mysterious threat, as were the outlaws who 
attacked the land of the Beornings in Kinstrife & 
Grim Tidings. 
• 
Why: Radagast fears – correctly – that some evil 
driven out of Dol Guldur has taken root across the 
Great River. If this threat is allowed to fester, the 
Shadow over Mirkwood could spread to encompass 
all of Wilderland.
• 
Who: The wizard Ragadast is the primary patron for 
this adventure; the company also meet the head of 
the House of Mountain Hall, Hartfast son of Hartmut. 
Adventuring Phase
This adventure is divided into eight parts.
Part One – Wizard’s Counsel
The company meet with Ragadast in his home at 
Rhosgobel, where the wizard explains his concerns and 
asks the companions to investigate.
Part Two – Across the River
The company travel from Rhosgobel to Mountain Hall. 
Along the way, they spy traces of the enemy’s movements.
Part Three – The Harrowed Hall
The company arrive at Mountain Hall, and meet with 
Hartfast, the chieftain. He has his own troubles with 
Goblin attacks, and can spare little time for the company’s 
questions. He does point the company towards the Gladden 
Fields, saying that some of his hunters have spoken of 
strange sights in that unpleasant land.
Part Four – The Passage of the Marshes
The company travel through the noisome swampy terrain 
of the Gladden Fields. After several days of arduous travel, 
they find eerie ruins atop a stony hill.
Part Five – Slave & Hunters 
The company meet an escaped slave and battle the Orcs 
who hunt him. He relates his tale, and reveals the location 
of a secret route into the fort.
Part Six – By Secret Ways
The company enter the fort by a secret passage and spy 
on the enemy. They learn that the enemy’s plans involve a 
powerful and ancient relic. 
Part Seven – Fly, You Fools!
The company are discovered and must fight their way out 
of the fort. They are pursued across the Gladden Fields 
and the vales of Anduin to Mountain Hall. The company 
must stay ahead of the Orcs for as long as they can.
Epilogue – The Shadow of the Future
Returning to the fort, the company discover that the 
enemy has withdrawn from its fastness. The company 
must have discovered the enemy before he was ready to 
reveal himself...
Following On...
If your company played through Those Who Tarry 
No Longer, then they are the ones to bring the news 
to Radagast. Otherwise, Ragadast learns of the 
potential threat through his own spies, and summons 
the companions to help him.
A Darkness in the Marshes

--- PAGE 78 ---
Wilderland Adventures
78
– Part  One – 
Wizard’s Counsel
The adventure begins at Rhosgobel, the small village of 
the Woodmen that has grown up around the house of 
Radagast on the edge of the wood. The wizard’s cottage 
lies a short distance away through the trees, but it can 
only be reached when the wizard wants visitors. For some 
days, the company has rested here in the great long hall 
of the Woodmen, waiting for the wizard’s summons. The 
Woodmen are slightly concerned – Radagast has admitted 
no visitors in several weeks, and while long periods of 
isolation are not uncommon for the wizard, it has been 
some years since he was so secretive.
The summons comes one evening, as the dusk draws in. A 
bushy-tailed red squirrel leaps from tree to tree, then lands 
on the roof of the hall and scurries along the supporting 
pillars before it drops down in front of the company. 
It bows in the manner of a courtier, and beckons the 
company to follow it. The company notice it has a golden 
chain around its neck. 
Following the squirrel brings the company along a 
path of crushed white stones that the companions tried 
to follow previously and didn’t seem to lead anywhere. 
The path winds its way through the woods, travelling 
alongside the sharp-thorned brown hedge that protects 
Rhosgobel from the wild woods beyond, and brings the 
company to a small cottage in a little clearing. The lights 
of the cottage are warm and welcoming as the night draws 
in. A horse eats grass contentedly in the field beside the 
house. The squirrel runs ahead of the company, climbs 
up the wall, and rings a little bell by the door. The door 
swings open of its own accord. “Come in, come in,” says 
the voice of Radagast.
The Wizard
The cottage is crammed with all sorts of stuff - the gifts of 
generations of grateful visitors and villagers, from painted 
earthenware to travelling gear, to jars of herbs and spices. 
There are cages containing sick or wounded animals, casks 
of wine, moth-eaten blankets, framed woodcarvings piled 
against one wall, a teetering pile of scrolls, a writing-desk 
that overflows with parchment, letters and notes, and 
any number of birds hopping in and out of the window or 
roosting in the thatched roof. 
Inside, Radagast sits in a comfortable-looking chair, 
wearing a ratty brown robe. He looks exhausted and 
weatherbeaten, but an energetic spark still animates his 
dark eyes. A simple supper of bread, cheese, jams and 
fruits is spread out on the table – there is enough for the 
whole company. Radagast insists that the company eat 
first, before he moves onto the reason he called them here. 
There is no need for formal introductions, the Wizard 
already knows them.
Motivation
Radagast seeks a band of worthy adventurers to run an 
errand for him.  
Expectations
+1: Travellers bring tidings (+1 if the characters bring 
news of the Dwimmerhorn or other word from afar)
-1: Greed is a flaw in the hearts of men (-1 if the players 
ask for too many rewards or boons)
-2: “A habit of the old; they choose the wisest person 
present to speak to”  (if the characters interrupt or 
question Radagast’s wisdom)
Interaction
Radagast begins by explaining what he needs from the 
company.
“News – well, rumour and wild stories - has reached me 
of late. There is talk of Orcs moving across Wilderland, 
of evil things stirring up, of disquiet and sorrow and all 
manner of unpleasant things. This news comes from all 
quarters, but mostly from the west.” 
5

--- PAGE 79 ---
79
“I was so concerned that I sent word south to the head 
of my order, Saruman the White, who is wise beyond all 
others. He said that the best thing to do would be to act 
quickly and quietly, and with caution. My intent is to send 
you in search of the root of these stories. Your mission is 
to gather information and report back – learn all you can, 
but do not reveal your presence to the enemy! I think the 
best place to start is Mountain Hall, the main settlement 
of the Woodsfolk west of the Great River. Hartfast is head 
of the council of Elders there – he is a good man, very 
sensible, and little happens in the vale of Anduin that does 
not escape his notice. Ask him for news.”
Likely questions from the company are listed below, 
together with the wizard’s response. Each question gains 
the company a +1 modifier to the Final Audience Check, 
as long as they are respectful of Radagast’s answer.
What are we looking for?
“As you may know, some years ago, the Necromancer 
was driven from Dol Guldur. He could be back – and if it 
is him, then you must be very careful indeed. He is a foe 
beyond any of you, and beyond me too for that matter.
More likely, though, the withdrawal of the Necromancer 
means that some evil thing, perhaps one of his servants, is 
trying to fill the void he left. We forced the Necromancer to 
leave, but there are any number of Orcs, spirits and mean-
spirited men in the lands around Dol Guldur who would 
obey a new overlord.”
“So, you are looking for... well, I don’t know. Something 
evil. With luck, it is just some bandit, with less luck, a new 
Great Goblin. If I knew what it was, I wouldn’t be sending 
you, would I?”
What is our reward?
“Reward? What, like gold and treasure and magic swords? 
Don’t be absurd. You shall have the gratitude of all living 
beings in Wilderland, and that is worth more than silver 
or precious stones.“
If it is the Necromancer, wouldn’t he come back to 
Dol Guldur?
“The Hill of Sorcery is watched by many eyes. No, he will not 
return to that fortress until he is secure in his power. I think 
whatever this enemy is, it has yet to build its full strength. 
We must root out this weed of evil before it grows!”
Why Mountain Hall? 
“Most of the recent troubles that have plagued the land 
happened west of the Great River. The hall is the only safe 
haven in that area and east of the Mountains for many 
leagues.”
What help can you give us?
“There are any number of things I might work on you, but 
I’m not sure if they would help you or hinder you. Say I 
put a spell of concealment upon you – that will help you 
hide from Orcs and men and beasts, but it would make it 
easier for... other things to sense you. If I put a spell or two 
on you, then I am writing ‘these are friends of Radagast’ 
across your faces in letters of sunlight that can be read by 
anyone with the wit to read them. Still, I will leave it up to 
you – if you’d prefer to risk a little magic, in the hopes that 
whatever you find is just a dumb brute and not one of the 
Necromancer’s horrors, then you shall have it.” 
If the companions ask for a spell, then Radagast offers 
them a choice of magical boons. Compare the margin of 
success for the Final Audience Check with the entries given 
below.
Failure: Radagast has changed his mind, he won’t risk any 
magic on the company: in his opinion these adventurers 
should try not to catch the attention of anyone who might 
take notice...
0-2: Radagast promises he will work his magic: he will 
give them one magical boon.
3-5: As 0-2 above, but he may be convinced to give up to 
two magical boons.
6 or more: As above, but he may be convinced to give up 
to three magical boons.
Radagast’s Magical Boons
The following list contains some examples of the type of 
magic that Radagast may employ to assist the company 
in their quest. While the number of boons depends 
on how the encounter turned out, the precise choice 
depends on the Loremaster, even if the adventurers might 
have attempted to influence Radagast advancing specific 
requests (for example, “Can you hide us from the eyes of 
our enemies?”or “Can you help us to endure the journey?” ).
A Darkness in the Marshes

--- PAGE 80 ---
Wilderland Adventures
80
Beast Protection
The wizard promises he will tell his animal friends to 
assist the company. When the company leaves, every 
animal will keep an eye on their progress until the end of 
the adventure. 
• 
For the length of the adventure, all companions benefit 
from Advantage on all Wisdom (Animal Handling 
or Perception) checks.. 
The bonus is granted as animals send warnings to the 
companions whenever danger is near: birds sing wildly or 
stop singing all of a sudden, a thrush starts flying about 
the companions’ heads to catch their attention, a hart 
jumps in the middle of their encampment turning its head 
in the direction of the enemy, etc. 
Spell of Concealment
When the company leaves his presence, Radagast places a 
spell of concealment upon them. 
• 
For the duration of the adventure, all companions 
benefit from Advantage on all Dexterity (Stealth) rolls.
Travel Blessing
Radagast casts a spell on the company’s boots (or Hobbit 
feet!). 
• 
For the length of the adventure, all companions have 
Advantage on Wisdom (Survival) rolls.
Storm Bag
Radagast digs up a battered leather pouch with a waxed 
black drawstring. The pouch is oddly warm to the touch.
• 
If the pouch is opened, it seems empty and the 
warmth disperses, but within minutes a tremendous 
thunderstorm appears. The storm brings dark clouds, 
high winds and torrential rain (or snow, if opened in 
winter or in the mountains). The bag only works once.
Mirkwood Cordial
Radagast gives the company a flask of a powerful 
alcoholic beverage, enough for six sips of the thick liquid. 
He accompanies the offer with a warning: “Beware, as this 
liquor has been distilled from rare herbs I picked deep in 
the forest of Mirkwood. Remember, one sip at a time.” 
• 
Sipping from the flask once a day restores 1d4 Hit Dice. 
Drinking two sips or more in the same day restores 
Hit Dice proportionally but induces a stupor making a 
character Miserable for 24 hours for each sip after the 
first (this means that the drinker may now fall prey of 
a Bout of Madness, see page 183 of the Adventures in 
Middle-earth Player’s Guide).
Leaving Rhosgobel
Once Radagast tires of the conversation, he announces 
that it is time for bed. The companions can sleep in the 
spare rooms of his cottage – and although the cottage 
looked like it could only contain one or two rooms from 
the outside, the company find there are just enough 
bedrooms for all of them. Radagast does not sleep that 
night, as he has been away from home for several weeks 
and needs to catch up on news from the animals who 
watch Dol Guldur. The company see him walk away into 
the forest and vanish. 
The wizard does not return the next morning. The company 
are woken by the dawn chorus of birds in the thatch, and 
can break their fast on the leftovers before departing.
– Part Two – 
Across the River
A Woodwoman named Banna greets the company on the 
edge of the forest. She is tall and gangly, and while her 
features could not be called pretty, there is a merry glint in 
her eye. She says that Radagast asked her to accompany 
the companions to the River, where they can take boats 
upriver and then travel west to Mountain Hall. 
Banna
Banna is one of Radagast’s aides and messengers. She 
is eternally optimistic and positive, and loves tramping 
through the forest and the vales of Anduin more than 
anything else. She is curious about other folk, but has no 
desire to leave the lands she knows and loves – maybe one 
day, when she has seen all the forest and walked every 
valley from the Forest Gate to the Mountain Pass, but not 
yet. While she is a good shot with a bow and can handle 
a knife, she only fights in defence of her homeland. She 
knows little about the outside world, but knows everything 
about the lands of the Woodmen, down to the smallest

--- PAGE 81 ---
81
piece of gossip or the best-hidden path through the woods 
of the Western Eaves.
Playing Banna: Be cheery and upbeat. Ask questions of 
any companions who are not Woodmen or Beornings; 
Banna has never seen a Dwarf or a Hobbit, or even a 
house that was made out of anything other than wood. Tilt 
your head as if listening to the wind every few minutes. 
Address animals as ‘Master Rabbit, Mistress Cow, Lord 
Bear’ and so on – treat them as people.
Banna will not accompany the party west of the Anduin, 
but can show up in future adventures as a guide or 
messenger. 
The Journey
The first part of the journey will see the company travel 
from the western eaves of Mirkwood to the Great River. 
The second has the companions paddle against the 
current along the River Anduin to a landing spot chosen 
by Banna. The third leg brings the company from the 
Great River to Woodland Hall.
The Journey has a peril rating of 2.
• 
The sixty miles trip from Rhosgobel to the River Anduin 
is done across open terrain in Border lands, taking no 
more than three days and provokes 1 Journey Event 
at DC 14. Refer to the Wilderland Adventures Journey 
table starting on page 143.
• 
The journey upriver is long, some forty miles by boat, 
taking between four and eight days depending on 
the weather and how hard they row (see below). The 
Anduin is especially fierce during the early spring and 
summer, when meltwater from the mountains feeds 
the streams, but late summer and early autumn are 
more pleasant. The company will experience 1d3 
Journey Events on this section, at DC 14. Refer to the 
Wilderland Adventures Journey table on page 143.
• 
The journey from the Great River to Woodland Hall 
is more than eighty miles across pathless areas and 
hills in Border lands, taking six days.  This section 
of the journey will also provoke 1 Journey Event at 
DC 14. Refer to the Wilderland Adventures Journey 
table starting on page 143.
Planning the Route
As usual, the companions will plan their route, under the 
auspices of their chosen Guide. Banna knows most of the 
way, though, so the company may choose to listen to her. 
Listening to Banna’s directions lets the Guide roll 1d8+4 
on their Embarkation roll.
A Darkness in the Marshes
1

--- PAGE 82 ---
Wilderland Adventures
82
Alternative Routes
Banna’s suggested route is the easiest, but not the 
only option. The company might choose to cross the 
Great River by boat to the west of Rhosgobel, then 
head north-west across the Nether Vales or even 
through the Gladden Fields. Alternatively, they 
could take the boats up the Gladden River. Both 
routes are much harder, but bring them closer to 
the Dwimmerhorn; optionally, you could skip Part 
Three and jump right to Part Four or Five if the 
company choose the harder road. 
From Rhosgobel to the Great River
Banna leads the company northwest, to reach the river 
north of the Gladden Fields. The travelling is pleasant, 
and they swiftly leave the forest behind to march across 
the green fields that slope down towards the River. Banna 
brings the company to where the Woodmen have cleverly 
hidden some boats in a little coppice overlooking the River. 
Up the Anduin
Assuming the companions follow Banna’s planned route, 
then the next part of the journey involves paddling upriver, 
to the point where Banna will bid the company farewell 
after dropping them on the western shore. 
The companions must all make a DC 10 Strength 
(Athletics) check  (raise the DC by 2 in spring): if 
more than half their number pass the test, the journey 
upriver takes four days, and provokes 1 Journey Event. 
Otherwise, they struggle against the current and spend 
six days paddling northwards and experience 2 Journey 
Events. If all the companions fail the test, the journey 
takes eight days, and provokes 3 Journey Events. Any 
Journey Events arising in this time occur as the company 
make camp for the night, scout the local area around 
their campsite, and seek to replenish their food supplies.
The Gladden Fields
The first day of the boat journey is the worst, as the 
company begin quite close to the Gladden Fields. There, 
the river is cloaked in a thick mist, and the company are 
beset by buzzing flies and mosquitoes. Banna insists that 
the going is easier later on, and she is proved right, as the 
mist gives way to clear skies. 
If there are any Hobbits in the party, she points to lines of 
small hills by the river-banks. Her grandmother told her 
stories of a fairy folk who lived in holes under those hills, 
long ago, and who could vanish from the sight of men at 
will.
From the Great River to Mountain Hall
The third part of the journey is the longest and most 
perilous. Before she departs, Banna suggests that they 
travel due west, skirting the woods, and to follow the 
mountain stream until they reach the Hall. The terrain on 
the west bank is tougher to navigate, with fewer known 
trails. In places, the company must struggle up rocky 
slopes, or navigate tangles of gorse and thorny plants. 
Around half-way through the journey, the company 
may be lucky enough to find a well-worn path, used by 
travellers coming from the Old Ford who are going to 
Mountain Hall.
– Part Three – 
The Harrowed Hall
The fast-flowing river waters that protect Mountain Hall 
(see the Loremaster’s Guide, page 16) are icy cold as 
they tumble down from the snowy heights of the Misty 
Mountains. The waters churn and cascade around the 
hall, surging down a gully that was shaped and widened 
by many years of craft. The hall has no protective hedge 
or walls – it needs only the river and the cliffs. A narrow 
bridge crosses the river, leading to the knot of outbuildings 
and storerooms at the front of the hall. Behind the long 
hall itself, a watchtower rises as if in imitation of the 
towering peaks around.
When the company approaches the bridge, they are 
challenged from the other side by the doorkeeper of 
Mountain Hall, old Beranald. 
“Stay where you are, strangers. Your journey has led you 
here to seek our hall. I see you are warriors. I must ask 
who you are, in the name of Hartfast, head of the House 
of Mountain Hall.”
1
1

--- PAGE 83 ---
83
A pair of guards cross the bridge to hear the company’s 
answers. If there are any Woodmen who will vouch for the 
rest of the company, they can cross freely. Otherwise, the 
company must make a DC 10 Intelligence (Traditions) 
check to be allowed entrance to the hall, and must give 
up their weapons to the keeping of Beranald (see below). 
If they fail, they are kept waiting outside until Beranald 
summons more guards to keep an eye on the strangers.
The company are given a simple meal of bread, cold water 
and grey mutton. If they ask to see Hartfast, they are 
escorted up the hill past the watchtower to a cave entrance.
Mountain Hall
1. Narrow Bridge: This bridge is the only easy crossing 
over the fast-flowing river. North and west of Mountain 
Hall, the river cuts through a steep gorge; east of the hall, 
the river clings to the sheer slopes of the mountains on one 
side, and is too swift and cold to ford. The Woodmen have 
fortified this river over the years by placing sharpened 
stones along the west bank to further dissuade trespassers. 
There is a hidden boathouse several miles east that marks 
the uppermost point at which the river is navigable.
2. Approach Road: This ramp is the only way into the 
hall. It cuts back and forth across the mountainside, and 
at its narrowest is wide enough only for a single cart. The 
ramp is lined with carved stones to ward off evil spirits.
3. Doorkeeper’s House: Here dwells Beranald, doorkeeper 
of Mountain Hall. Woodmen of good standing may be 
allowed to keep their weapons, but all other visitors must 
leave their weapons here in Beranald’s care. Doing so gains 
a +1 modifier for the coming Audience.
Mountain Hall
A Darkness in the Marshes

--- PAGE 84 ---
Wilderland Adventures
84
4. Great House: This high-ceilinged building is the heart 
of the settlement. It has walls of timber and is kept warm 
by three huge fire-pits. One fire is kept burning at all times 
of the year, and the Woodmen believe that if this fire ever 
goes out, doom will befall their hall.
5. Trading Post: This is a trading post where furriers, 
hunters and farmers may barter for the work of the forges 
and the mines. Adventurers may also acquire supplies 
here.
6. Mine Entrance: At the back of the village is the 
entrance to one of the mines worked by the mountain 
folk. There are three other mines farther up the gorge, and 
another two mines over the mountains.
7. The Burg: This tall tower was raised by a great 
chieftain of the Mountain Folk. His daughter, said to be 
the most beautiful maiden ever seen in Wilderland, cast 
herself from the top of the tower when her lover was slain 
in battle with Dwarves. Her body was never found; one 
story claims that the remorseful Dwarves found her and 
placed her drowned, half-dead body in a crystal coffin, 
where she sleeps until her lover returns from beyond the 
land of the dead.
8. Hartfast’s House: This large house is the home to 
Hartfast son of Hartmut, head of the House of Mountain 
Hall. It is always busy and full of life; Hartfast sired five 
sons and seven daughters, and has more grandchildren 
than he can remember or bother to count.
The Mine
The entrance leads into one of the mines that worm their 
way into the Mountain’s roots. By the standards of the 
Woodmen, these are extensive excavations – to a Dwarf, 
they are a child’s idle scratchings. The Woodmen kindle 
torches made from rushes, and bring the company down 
into the mine. The walls and floor are slick with water, and 
icy drops fall from above. The torchlight makes the walls 
glitter. 
These mines mostly dig useful metals out of the ground 
– copper and tin and iron primarily, but they have found 
some gold here too. It has long been the dream of the 
mountain-folk to strike Mithril, the fabled Moria-silver, 
but they have yet to do so. 
The tunnels wind on and on, and the company descend 
several flights of stairs until they come to a larger cave. 
There, four burly mountain-folk stand with their ears

--- PAGE 85 ---
85
pressed against the far wall. One of these folk turns 
to greet the company. This is Hartfast, the chieftain of 
Mountain Hall.
Meeting Hartfast son of Hartmut
Hartfast looks like the Misty Mountains; craggy features, 
absurdly tall, and a wild shock of white hair. Golden 
amulets are braided into his grey beard. He has seen 
more than fifty winters here in the mountains, but he is 
yet unbowed. He does lean on a stout walking stave more 
than he used to, but he can still swing an axe or draw a 
bow with the best of his grandsons. 
He is a proud man, and has little time for outsiders – not 
even the other Woodman tribes are truly welcome here. 
It is a long way across the River to Woodland Hall, and 
Hartfast considers them distant cousins at best. Behind 
his back, the other Woodmen call him the ‘tallest dwarf’ 
for his stubborn pride and standoffishness. 
Playing Hartfast: Stand and look down on the players. 
Demand respect. Have no patience. Use silence as a 
weapon. Don’t talk unless you have something to say, and 
let foolish statements hang in the air.
When the companions first meet him, Hartfast scowls 
at them, and brusquely demands that they explain their 
presence in his mountain fortress. 
Motivation 
To protect his people and his position
Expectations
+2: To be shown the respect I deserve. To be treated as a 
Woodman, despite living far from Mirkwood
+1: To be given gifts by supplicants. If the name of Radagast 
is invoked
-1: If Hartfast suspects the player characters will stir up 
evil with their actions
Interaction
Providing news from afar gains a +1 modifier, as Hartfast 
is always hungry for tidings from the outside. But begging 
for favours with little preamble earns the heroes a -1 
modifier instead. If the company hints about any threat 
from the lands to the west of the River Anduin, then 
Hartfast shrugs. 
“Aye, there’s something afoot down south, in the Gladden 
Fields. There’s always trouble in those parts, around 
Dwimmerhorn. I pay it little heed – I’ve worries closer to 
home.”
Dwimmerhorn, he explains, is an old fort made by ‘evil 
folk’ that sits on a stony hillock in the marshes. At least, 
it usually does – Dwimmerhorn moves of its own accord, 
they say, and is never in the same place twice. It is said by 
the mountain-folk that the fort was built by servants of the 
Necromancer many years ago. It was abandoned by the 
enemy several times in the past, but it draws dark things to 
itself, and is never empty for long. From what he knows, it 
was somewhere in the western part of the Gladden Fields. 
Local hunters may know more. That puffed-up trapper 
Magric, for example, knows the marshes very well, even if 
he is too big for his britches. 
If asked for more tales of Dwimmerhorn, Hartfast calls 
over another one of the greybeards, who says that the 
marsh fortress is atop a ‘great black rock’ and that there is 
only one way up, a narrow path that is watched by many 
eyes. The fort was always well protected. Orcs and worse 
things dwelt there, and it was reputed to be haunted. Tales 
speak of dungeons and treasures delved deep into the 
black rock below. Some say the rock fell from the sky.
Some of the hunters who come to Mountain Hall to trade 
have not been seen in several weeks. Maybe something 
happened to them in the marsh. If he had time and men to 
spare, then he would look into the matter, but he doesn’t 
right now. 
If asked about his ‘worries closer to home’, Hartfast 
beckons the company over and bids them put their heads 
against the stone wall. In the distance, echoing through the 
stone, they hear the tap-tap-tap of a hammer in the depths.
“Goblins”, says Hartfast. “They dig in search of our 
mineshafts and tunnels. They want to find a secret way in 
to my hall. We’ve killed many on the surface, but they are 
more dangerous down here in the dark.”
A Dwarf can suggest useful strategies for dealing with 
underground combat; Hartfast welcomes such advice 
(this wins a +2 modifer for the Final Audience Check), and 
would in fact pay to have a few Dwarves come to his hall 
A Darkness in the Marshes
3

--- PAGE 86 ---
Wilderland Adventures
86
for a few years to expand the mine and teach his followers 
the secrets of dwarven stone-craft. 
If the companions ask for aid, make a Final Audience 
Check, and compare the margin of success to the entries 
below:
Failure: Harfast has no time, provisions nor men to 
spare. The companions are left to their own devices. They 
will be required to leave as soon as possible, and won’t be 
offered provisions for the journey: they will have to hunt 
to provide their own food.
0-3: Hartfast offers the company hospitality for several 
nights and supplies for the journey south.
4+: Hartfast sees wisdom in the company’s quest, and 
offers to find them a guide, in addition to the boons above. 
If the company accepts, then will introduce them to a hunter 
named Magric (see Magric the Trapper on page 87).
Hartfast & the Dwarves
One potential follow-on from this adventure is for the 
company to act as intermediaries, bringing  Hartfast’s 
request to King Dáin of Erebor. The veins of ore 
beneath the Misty Mountains are very rich, and while 
the Dwarrowdelf is lost to Durin’s folk, there are other 
mines to work. 
However, both Hartfast and the Dwarves have stiff 
necks and do not share wealth easily. If the company 
pursue this quest, then they must later sort out disputes 
between Hartfast and the Dwarves who come to live 
in his hall, for both sides believe the other is cheating 
them of their rightful wealth. Treasure is ever the 
downfall of friendship between Dwarves and Men.
Night at Mountain Hall
After their encounter with Hartfast, the company can stay 
in the hall. Depending on how well-disposed Hartfast is 
to the company, they may get more grey mutton and stale 
bread in the common hall, or a hot meal and a real bed in 
the Great Hall. 
A Rude Awakening
During the night, the companions are awoken by shouts 
from outside. If they rush outside, call for DC 18 Wisdom 
(Perception) checks. Those who succeed spot a trio of 
Goblins (see the Loremaster’s Guide, page 102) scrambling 
up the steep mountain slope to the east of the hall! 
The Goblins crept up into Mountain Hall from the mines 
at night and tried to set fire to the storehouse. They were 
discovered by two watchmen: they stabbed one, but could 
not prevent the other from sounding the alarm. 
• 
The Goblins are deftly climbing the sheer mountain 
side and have too much of a lead to be caught, 
but an archer might attempt to pick them out with 
an astonishingly good shot — it must be made at 
Disadvantage and the Goblin receives a +5 bonus to 
AC for the conditions!
Every archer can make only one attempt before the Goblins 
will be out of range. If the shot is successful, the Goblin is 
too surprised to react and falls to its death regardless of 
the damage inflicted. 
• 
If the companions pause to ask the surviving 
watchman about what happened, they discover that 
his companion was stabbed but is now nowhere to 
be seen. 
Companions who didn’t lose time in shooting the Goblins 
and who succeed in a DC 15 Intelligence (Investigation) 
check find bloody tracks and discover that the wounded 
Woodman stumbled in the dark and fell over the cliff into 
the river to the north of the trading post: they are just in 
time to rescue him as he can be spied below as he clings 
with his remaining strength to the stony shore.
• 
If the companions do not search for the missing 
watchman, or tarry too long to shoot at the escaping 
Goblins, the watchman’s corpse is found the day 
after, stuck among the rocks where the bridge crosses 
the river.
A Bitter Morning
The morning after, Hartfast visits the company and 
thanks them for their help, or asks them to leave at once, 
depending on what happened during the night.
1

--- PAGE 87 ---
87
• 
If the companions didn’t inquire about the missing 
watchman, Hartfast shows them his body and asks 
them to leave at once, regardless of whether they 
killed any fleeing Goblins or not. 
• 
If they ignored the fleeing Goblins and rescued, or 
at least searched for the watchman, Hartfast thanks 
them for their help and the concern shown for his folk. 
He provides food for the coming journey, even if he 
didn’t offer to do so the night before.
• 
If they killed at least one Goblin and rescued the 
watchman, they are met with Hartfast’s approval and 
gratitude. He offers food and a guide for the coming 
journey (again, Magric, see below), and invites the 
companions to accompany him as he climbs the steps 
leading to the burg to behold the Horn of Warning 
before they take their leave (see the box, below). With 
this informal ceremony, Hartfast has recognised the 
companions as friends of the House of Woodland Hall. 
The Horn of Warning
Inside the burg, the stone tower overlooking the 
narrow dale, the Woodmen of Woodland Hall keep 
their greatest treasure: the great Horn of Warning. 
Carved from the tusk of a Cold-drake, it is a huge 
blowing horn, wrought with images carved by the 
hands of many skilled craftsmen. It hangs from the 
beams of the roof of the tower by means of two gilded 
chains. Legends say that whoever beholds the Horn 
of Warning will be able to hear its sound if they are 
within sight of the Misty Mountains.
The company may depart the day after they arrive, or stay 
a while if Hartfast offered them hospitality.
Magric the Trapper
Tall, handsome and well-spoken for one of the Woodmen, 
it is said there is Elvish blood in Magric’s family. He lives 
alone, hunting and trapping in the vales of the Gladden 
River. He comes to Mountain Hall each month or so to 
trade. He talks easily, laughs easily, and has an interest in 
all the doings of the wider world. Over the campfire, he is 
always curious about the homelands and the cultures of 
the people he travels with. He is an exceptionally skilled 
guide, and knows many travel songs to make the miles go 
quicker.
Secretly, though, Magric is a servant of the enemy. He was 
caught by Orc patrols in the marshes of the Gladden Fields 
and brought in chains to the Dwimmerhorn. There, he 
was threatened with torture, and he bought his freedom 
by agreeing to act as the enemy’s spy. He justifies this 
betrayal to himself by claiming that he had no choice, and 
that he did what he had to do to survive. 
Playing Magric: Joke and talk with the companions, but 
never mean it. Try to say exactly what you think the 
players want to hear. Subtly encourage the company 
not to worry and to trust in your guidance. Rub your 
wrists every so often, as if remembering the marks left 
by chains.
Travelling with Magric
When the company is travelling south with Magric, if any 
companion is curious about  Magric’s motivations and 
talks with or observes the guide for some time, allow a DC 
15 Wisdom (Insight) check. If successful, the character 
realises that there is something strange about Magric’s 
behaviour, and that while he knows exactly where he is 
going, he is pretending to be unsure about their course.
Unless the company challenge Magric before this 
happens, he turns on the company in Part Five. 
 – Part Four – 
The Passage of the Marshes
The journey south from Mountain Hall to the 
Dwimmerhorn is a difficult one, as the company do not 
know exactly where the fortress is located. The journey is 
easier if the company have Magric guiding them.
The Journey
The first part of the journey has the companions travel 
from Mountain Hall to where the Gladden River flows out 
of the Misty Mountains. On the second section of their 
journey, the adventurers enter the marshes of the Gladden 
Fields, searching for the Dwimmerhorn.
A Darkness in the Marshes
2
1/2
1

--- PAGE 88 ---
Wilderland Adventures
88
• 
On the first leg of the journey, the company skirts the 
foothills of the mountains for nearly forty miles to the 
south, then heads east for another thirty along the 
Gladden River. It takes them five days 
• 
Once inside the Gladden Fields, the company 
trudges along for twenty miles of marshy terrain. The 
uncomfortable trip takes three days.
 
The Journey has a peril rating of 2 and provokes 1d2 
Journey Events split between the two sections.
Planning the Route
If the companions let Magric assist their Guide, they may 
roll 1d10+2 on their Embarkation Roll..
From Mountain Hall to the Gladden River
 Travelling along the wolds and valleys of this district is 
easy enough, although the foreboding peaks cast long 
shadows over the land. In the warmer months of the year, 
great beds of iris and flowering reeds crowd the banks of 
the Gladden River.
Into the Gladden Fields
The Gladden Fields are not the worst swamp in Middle-
earth – these are not the Dead Marshes or the Long 
Marshes south of the Long Lake. But its tangled terrain 
can be confusing, as the company blunders from one 
watery hillock to the next, and the thick fogs that rise from 
the marsh may turn travellers from their path, but there 
are few mortal perils here... at least, outside the region 
around the Dwimmerhorn. 
Searching for the Dwimmerhorn
To reach their destination, the company must search 
the marshes. If they are on their own, their hunters and 
scouts are allowed to make two skill rolls each per day 
(making a successful DC 13 Wisdom (Perception or 
Survival) or DC 15 Intelligence (Investigation) check: 
when the companions have accumulated at least six 
successful rolls, they can be considered to have reached 
the Dwimmerhorn. 
To enliven the search, a particularly good roll can yield a 
significant clue and assure the company that they are on 
the right track. Possible clues include:
• 
A well-trod path: A trail winds its way among the 
great rushes and tangled reeds of the marshy terrain. 
It seems to have been used recently.
2

--- PAGE 89 ---
89
• 
An ominous sight: The companions catch a glimpse 
of a distant dark rocky hillock. They succeed in 
heading towards it for a while, and then lose it in 
the rising fog; this happens multiple times, giving the 
companions the uneasy feeling that the stories about 
the moving Dwimmerhorn might be true.
• 
Orc-camp: the adventurers uncover signs that Orcs 
have recently camped in the area; chewed bones and 
discarded remnants of food litter the area, the tall 
grass has been savagely trampled and small trees and 
plants hacked to pieces for no apparent reason.
If the company is guided by Magric, he leads them straight 
towards the fortress. Another possibility is to have the 
companions stumble upon a slave escaping its captors... 
(see the next chapter: Slave & Hunters). 
– Part Five – 
Slave & Hunters 
As the company make their way through the marshes, 
check the Look-out’s passive Perception score against DC 
10. If successful, the company hear the sound of several 
foes crashing through the marsh, and the savage howling 
of hunting Wargs. A band of Orcs is bearing down on the 
company!
If the company are travelling with Magric, then any 
companion who got a great success may also make a DC 
15 Wisdom (Insight) check; if successful, he notices that 
Magric paled when he heard the Orc-noise, and that their 
guide has fallen back to the rear of the company. 
The Orcs will be here in moments – if the companion wish 
to prepare to ambush the enemy, they can hide with a DC 
10 Dexterity (Stealth) check. 
The Fight in the Marshes
A single figure stumbles into view through the willow 
trees. It’s a Man, a Northman by his looks, dressed in 
rags and obviously in great distress. His hands are 
manacled together. His face is drawn and gaunt with 
months of starvation, and he is scarred from whippings 
and beatings. Close on his heels are the Orcs and their 
Wolves. 
• 
As soon as the Northman appears, if Magric is with 
the company, he jumps in the open and runs towards 
the Orcs crying out “Ambush! Ambush!” His betrayal 
removes any chance for the company to Surprise the 
enemy. 
The Enemy
There is one Orc Soldier per companion, plus a Black 
Uruk and a pair of Wild Wolves. If Magric is present, 
then the company must also deal with their treacherous 
companion. The Orcs were expecting to be dealing with 
a lone escaped slave, not a party of doughty adventurers, 
so they are taken aback when battle is joined. The Uruk 
roars commands to the soldiers, ordering them to capture 
the company and not to fear ‘a pack of farmers and elf-
maggots!’ Refer to the Marsh Map on the back end papers.
Complications
The Gladden Fields count as a Bog (see page 90 of the 
Loremaster’s Guide). There are solid patches of ground 
(see the map) but heroes must make a DC 10 Wisdom 
saving throw to find one before the battle begins.
Fight Events
The Loremaster should read and consider the application 
of the following battle events at appropriate moments.
Call for Aid: The Orc-Horn
If the Uruk or half of the Orc Soldiers are slain, one of the 
Orcs takes an action to seek assistance from nearby allies 
by wildly blowing his orc horn.  1d4 more Orc Soldiers 
arrive in 1d6+1 rounds. If all the original opponents are 
slain, the other Orcs are unable to find them and do not 
appear.
Act of Desperation
The escaped slave leaps to his feet and wraps his manacles 
around the neck of one of the Orc Soldiers. The throttled 
Orc slumps to the muddy ground, dead.
Magric’s Cowardice
If the Orcs are losing, then Magric flees the battle, 
running north. He knows the marshes well, and will have 
advantage on attempts to evade pursuit, while pursuers 
will suffer disadvantage. He shall return in Part Eight of 
this adventure. 
A Darkness in the Marshes
1

--- PAGE 90 ---
Wilderland Adventures
90
After the Fight
Once the Orcs are defeated, the company can tend to 
their wounds and the wounds of the escaped prisoner. 
The slave introduces himself as Walar, a Woodman. He 
tells his tale desperately, the words spilling out of him, 
as though trying to make up for months of isolation in a 
minute of companionship.
He recognised Magric the moment he saw him, for it was 
Magric who brought about his thralldom – the trapper 
told Walar that he had found a cache of treasure in the 
marsh, and that he needed Walar’s help to recover it. The 
pair went into the Gladden Fields, and Magric handed him 
over to the Orcs. For long months, now, he has suffered as 
a slave on the Dwimmerhorn. The fortress is not far away.
Likely questions for Walar are listed below, together with 
his responses.
What were you doing there?
“They made us repair the walls of the fort, and to work in 
the smithy, making weapons for the Orcs. They whipped 
us without reason, tortured us... they made us suffer for 
sport!”
How many orcs were there? What else lives there?
“I don’t know how many Orcs there were. A great many. 
There were Men, too, not as many. And in the temple... 
there was something else, something horrible. It... was a 
watchful shadow. It hated us. It delighted in our torment.”
Temple?
“On the north side of the rock, there is a stone building. 
They never let us see beyond its doors, but I heard whispers 
from within. The dead dwell there, I am sure of it! I do not 
know what evil they wreak there, but... please, no, don’t 
make me remember!”
How did you escape?
“When I was repairing one of the side walls, I saw that 
there was a goat path down the side of the rock, on the far 
side from the main road. I waited for weeks until I had my 
chance. Two of the Orcs began quarrelling over typical Orc-
ish things, and while they brawled, I jumped over the wall 
and climbed down the cliff. I nearly fell, but luck was with 
me, and I reached the bottom alive. A sentry spotted me, 
and I fled, and they have been on my heels ever since.”
Walar is too weak and exhausted to accompany the 
characters to the Dwimmerhorn. If they free him from 
his chains, then he will wait for them in the marshes and 
return with them to Mountain Hall.
– Part Six – 
By Secret Ways
Following Walar’s directions, the company travel across 
the marshes until the black rock of the Dwimmerhorn 
looms out of the mist. The rock rises more than one 
hundred and fifty feet above the marshy plain. Tufts of 
2

--- PAGE 91 ---
91
green grass grow from small ledges and cracks in the 
black cliffside, but the rock is almost sheer in places. 
Climbing it will be exceedingly difficult. Atop the rock, 
the company can make out a low curtain wall encircling 
several buildings, a ghastly temple of black stone among 
them: a sickly greenish light flares from time to time from 
its narrow windows. 
The Dwimmerhorn
More than two thousand years ago, Isildur was ambushed 
by Orcs and slain in the Gladden Fields. The One Ring – 
Isildur’s Bane – slipped from his finger and was lost in the 
waters of the Great River. When the Enemy came to Dol 
Guldur, he sent out his slaves to search the marshes and 
the river for signs of the Ring. The Dwimmerhorn housed 
but one of their outposts and watchtowers. 
When Gandalf entered Dol Guldur for the first time in the 
year 2063, the Enemy fled before him, and his servants 
dispersed. The Dwimmerhorn was abandoned and laid 
empty for many long years. It was repaired and reoccupied 
centuries later, when the search for the One Ring resumed. 
When the White Council attacked Dol Guldur and the 
Necromancer was again forced to retreat, a minion of the 
Enemy, the spirit known as the Gibbet King (see page 5), 
fled to the Dwimmerhorn and now dwells there.
The Gibbet King commands more than two hundred 
Orcs, and can demand service from the Orcs of the Misty 
Mountains when necessary. Evil men who lived in Dol 
Guldur and worshipped the darkness have followed the 
spirit into exile. And other horrors may sleep beneath the 
Dwimmerhorn, awaiting their true master’s call.
The Dwimmerhorn
1. The Road: The easiest approach to the fort atop the 
Dwimmerhorn is this narrow path that winds across the 
south face of the rock. In places, the path is so narrow 
that only a single traveller can pass, and it is impossible 
to climb it without being seen from the gatehouse above.
The Dwimmerhorn
A Darkness in the Marshes

--- PAGE 92 ---
Wilderland Adventures
92
2. Gatehouse: This crumbling fortification controls 
the main approach to the fort. The road ends at an iron 
portcullis that is controlled from the gatehouse. Arrow-slits 
and murder-holes allow those within to rain death down on 
attackers. There are a dozen Orc Guards in the gatehouse.
3. Curtain Walls: The low walls are no more than eight 
feet tall at their highest, but they run right up against the 
edge of the cliff, to dissuade those who might try to climb 
the rock.
4. Orc Barracks: This long building is a den for the Orc 
warriors who dwell here. The building stinks like a midden 
and is lit only by foul-smelling candles. At any time, there 
are more than a score of Orcs here or in the courtyard 
outside. Their taskmasters keep the Orcs hard at work, 
whipping the slaves or drilling for battle.
5. Storehouses: These contain supplies looted from the 
surrounding countryside. The storehouses are simple 
buildings of wood, not stone.
6. Smithy: This smithy is at work night and day, churning 
out weapons for the Orcs. 
7. Warg Den: The blood-thirsty wolves are kept here, 
tended by slaves and fed with slaves.
8. Keep: The keep is only partially intact, and the whole 
upper floor is crumbling and uninhabitable. The lower 
floor is used to house the human servants of the spirit, as 
well as the Orc-captain Ghor (see sidebar). 
9. Temple: See The Shadow in the Temple, below.
10. Pits: Slaves are kept in this underground prison, dug 
into the upper surface of the rock. They have little shelter 
from the weather – instead of a ceiling, they have only an 
iron grating. 
11. Catacomb Entrance: This foreboding crypt leads 
down into tunnels beneath the rock. What lurks there is 
a mystery.
12. Secret Path: This is the secret path discovered by 
Walar. Using the path allows members of the company to 
scale the rock and enter the fort by secret.
Ghor the Despoiler
...a huge Orc-chieftain, almost man-high, clad in black 
mail from head to foot, leaped into the chamber...
Ghor was bred in the Mountains of Shadow, the western 
fence of Mordor in the distant south. He came north to 
serve the Necromancer in his woodland fastness. When 
Dol Guldur fell, he gathered a band of strong Orcs and 
went reaving through Mirkwood, hunting and killing 
until the Elves ambushed them, and only Ghor survived. 
Alone, he wandered aimlessly, hunting Woodmen for meat. 
In the last year, he heard a call and found his way to the 
Dwimmerhorn. Here, he quickly rose to become captain of 
the fort (the previous captain he threw from the top of the 
wall). He is a strong, proud Orc, at the height of his strength, 
with a fearful iron helm bearing the sign of the Red Eye. 
None rival him, and now that Bolg son of Azog is dead, it 
shall be Ghor son of Ghâsh who rules the North!
Ghor the Despoiler
Medium humanoid (Orc-kind)
STR 
18 (+4)
DEX 
12 (+1)
CON 
18 (+4)
INT 
11 (+0)
WIS 
11 (+0)
CHA 
16 (+3)
Armour Class 15 (cobbled-together Orc armour)
Hit Points 93 (11d8+44)
Speed 30 ft
Saving Throws Str +7, Con +7, Wis +3
Skills Intimidation +6
Senses passive Perception 10
Languages Orkish, Black Speech, Westron
Challenge 5 (1,800 XP)
Leadership. As a bonus action, Ghor can command a 
single orc within 30 ft orc other than himself. That orc 
takes its turn immediately after Ghor.
Horrible Strength. If Ghor makes a successful melee 
attack, he may use his bonus action to cause 4 additional 
damage of the same type as the original type.
Actions
Multiattack. Ghor makes two axe attacks.
Heavy Orc-axe. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 
ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d6+4) slashing damage.
Battle Cry (1/day). Each orc within 30 feet other than 
Ghor gains Advantage on attack rolls until the start of the 
war chief’s next turn. Ghor may then make one attack as 
a bonus action.

--- PAGE 93 ---
93
Burglary
Not even one of the Elf-lords of old could storm the 
Dwimmerhorn single-handedly and live to tell the tale, 
and the companions are not yet legendary heroes. They 
need stealth and secrecy, not force. Radagast gave them 
the quest of finding out what evil lurked in the Gladden 
Fields, and the answer to that question is within the 
dark temple atop the rock. Ideally, the company make it 
into the Temple and eavesdrop on the spirit. However, it 
is possible that the company’s spying is spotted earlier. 
When the company is discovered, they must flee or perish 
– move onto Fly, You Fools! 
Crossing the Marshes
The first step is to cross the marshland at the foot of the 
rock without being seen. This requires a DC 15 Dexterity 
(Stealth) check; if the check fails then the hero is permitted 
a DC 10 Wisdom saving throw to spot the danger and dive 
into cover in the nick of time. 
Climbing the Cliffs
Climbing the cliffs requires a Strength (Athletics) check. 
Most of the cliff face is a daunting climb (DC 20), but 
the secret path described by Walar is simply hard (DC 
15). Companions who do not dare to climb quickly can 
approach the goat trail with caution, turning the attempt 
into a prolonged action requiring three rolls at DC 12. 
Falling
Failing a roll while climbing means the companion slips 
and falls. Fortunately, the cliff – while steep – is not sheer. A 
character who falls takes 1d6 x 1d6 bludgeoning damage. 
Sneaking Around the Fortress
Once the burglar reaches the top of the cliff and clambers 
over the wall, he can explore the Dwimmerhorn. Moving 
from building to building requires a Dexterity (Stealth) 
check, with the DC varying from 10 to 20 depending on 
distance and circumstances. 
The Shadow in the Temple
The fortress of the Dwimmerhorn is crudely built, raised 
by Orcs and their slaves. It is functional, but the wind 
whistles through gaps in the stones, and the buildings 
lean and totter. The temple, though, was built by servants 
of the Enemy out of the East. They cut the black stone of 
the Dwimmerhorn with wicked cunning and raised up a 
grim basilica in the manner of their homelands. 
The black walls are devoid of decorations or statues, but 
their surface is polished like a mirror, and reflects back 
twisted images. Many narrow windows open high along 
the walls, letting out a greenish luminescence. 
Entering the Temple
The heavy doors of the temple are tall and forged of green 
bronze, but they open easily when pushed inward. As 
soon as they cross the threshold, the companions are 
nearly frozen on the spot in fear, and can enter only with 
great effort: if the company obtained any magical boons 
from Radagast at the beginning of the adventure (see page 
79), there is a chance that what is inside the temple takes 
notice of the power bestowed upon them and attempts to 
dispel it.
Lockmand
A trader and dealer in strange artefacts and curiosities, Lockmand hails originally from Esgaroth, where he was one 
of the previous Master’s closest associates. When the old Master fled, Lockmand decided that his affairs in the south 
suddenly needed urgent attention, and he left Lake-town in haste. He has not been seen in the north in several years. 
He fancies himself to be witty, urbane and sophisticated, and in his riddle-talk he has quite convinced himself 
that morality is a thing for simple men. He speaks of ‘alliances of convenience’, of ‘contracts and treaties and 
understandings’, and believes that by helping the Enemy he will bring a great new order to the North. Lockmand 
plays little part in this adventure, but the company will meet him again in The Crossing of Celduin (page 99). It is 
very important that the heroes get but a glimpse of his appearance, lest they recognise him when they meet the trader 
in Dale.
A Darkness in the Marshes
3
5

--- PAGE 94 ---
Wilderland Adventures
94
• 
One companion (the one with the highest Wisdom) 
must make a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw for every 
spell laid upon the company (the Beast Protection, the 
Spell of Concealment, the Travel Blessing, even the 
Storm bag, but not the Mirkwood Cordial). 
For example, if the company was adventuring under a 
Spell of Concealment, the Travel Blessing and carrying the 
Mirkwood Cordial, then two rolls would be required.
• 
If a saving throw is successful, the spell resists and the 
power in it remains concealed. 
• 
If the saving throw is failed, the spell is broken and 
the company feels the wizard’s benevolence leave 
them: all character gain a point of Shadow and the 
company’s presence has been noticed. 
• 
Finally, if the roll fails with a natural 1, not only the 
spell is broken and the company gain Shadow points, 
but all companions are daunted and are Frightened 
for as long as they remain inside the temple.
The Sanctum
Inside the temple, many pillars of black stone support 
its tall roof. Upon entering, the companions see that the 
unseemly light originates from the far end, where a heavily 
sculpted casket with an open side lies against the wall of a 
small shrine. Coffin-sized and apparently made of gilded 
wood reinforced with iron bands, the casket displays an 
oversized length of chain, each black metal link the size of 
a human head. The luminescence seems to radiate from 
the chain itself. 
Bathed in the green glow stand two figures – one is a 
human (Lockmand), the other is the Orc-captain Ghor. 
They are deep in conversation, but even the hoarse voice 
of the Orc is kept at a whisper. Between them, lying on the 
floor, is an ancient withered corpse, with pale skin drawn 
tight over bones. It is dressed in a black robe, its unmoving 
head featureless but for a gleam in its eye-sockets. A harsh 
and chilling voice emerges from the corpse’s lips as the 
spirit speaks through them. 
• 
The companions are too far away to hear the 
conversation, so they must sneak closer if they are 
to listen. This requires a DC 15 Dexterity (Stealth) 
check. If successful, they catch a few words of the 
conversation between the three. 
The Conversation 
The man, the Orc and the spirit are planning their future 
moves. 
The Orc urges that they need to move sooner rather than 
later. “The mountain-maggots want plunder and war. 
They say they didn’t come south to sit and wait in their 
holes. They want to kill!”
The human argues that they are not ready. “We need 
more time. The Chain is useless to us, unless we master its 
secrets. We must bide our time, until we can strike with the 
greatest weapon in all of Middle-earth.”
The corpse stirs and whispers, every word a shiver along 
the companions’ spines. “Send word to the mountain 
tribes. They will wait, or they will die with the rest of the 
North. Double your patrols. If we are discovered, all may 
be lost.”
The Orc and the man kneel before the corpse, then depart. 
Stealth tests are again needed to avoid being spotted. 
Exploring the Temple
Once Lockmand and the Orc have left, the companions 
may want to have a look around. The temple is empty, 
except for the gilded casket containing the chain and the 
dried corpse sprawled in front of it. Even from a distance, 
the companions notice that the gleam that previously 
animated the eye-sockets of the corpse seems to have been 
extinguished. No voice emerges from its lips, and now it 
appears as nothing more than the desiccated remains 
of a man. Looking at the casket and its content from any 
distance is uncomfortable, and makes the observer feel 
a tightness in his chest, as if invisible bonds were closing 
around him. 
• 
If anyone gets close enough to touch the chain, they 
gain 1 Shadow point. The chain is too big and heavy 
to be stolen. 
Discovered!
If by some great fortune the company have managed 
to avoid detection thus far, then the spirit senses the

--- PAGE 95 ---
95
intruders and raises the alarm. The burglars are surprised 
when a shadowy figure slithers towards them. Any of 
the company who saw the spirit in Those Who Tarry No 
Longer recognises it as the same horror. 
The spirit hisses a word in the Black Speech of Mordor, 
then vanishes. A moment later, the Orc-horns blow.
The Chain of Thangorodrim
The chain inside the temple is a relic of great power. 
It was forged in the Elder Days by the dark powers 
of the world, and was used to enslave proud, rebellious 
dragons. When placed around a creature, the chain 
robs the creature of all free will and forces them to 
serve the master of the chain. It was carried out of the 
far north by evil men in the second age, and rested in 
the tunnels under Mount Gram for many centuries. 
When the Necromancer claimed Dol Guldur as his 
new sanctum, the chain was brought there and given 
into the keeping of the Gibbet King, although the 
Necromancer retained mastery of the artefact. 
Particularly troublesome slaves were subjected to the 
iron mercy of the Chain. 
When Dol Guldur was assaulted by the White 
Council, the Gibbet King had the Chain moved to the 
Dwimmerhorn, so that he might study it and master 
it fully.
 – Part Seven – 
Fly, You Fools!
Once the company is discovered, they must escape. The 
flight from the Dwimmerhorn itself is perilous – the 
company must climb down the rockface again, or else 
fight their way across the courtyard and out past the 
gatehouse. If the company stop or try to hold their 
ground, they will be overcome. Their only hope lies in 
stealth and swiftness.
Climbing down the Rock
It is easier to climb down than up, requiring only a DC 
10 Strength (Athletics) check. The Orcs fire arrows at 
the escaping intruders, so the longer the company cling 
to the wall, the more attacks they are subjected to (they 
are subject to one arrow shot each if they do not tarry 
unnecessarily). 
As the company escape the shadow of Dwimmerhorn, 
they hear Orcs shouting commands from above. “Find 
them! Kill them! No escape!” The portcullis grinds open, 
and brigades of Orcs march forth. The company are the 
quarry in a bloody hunt.
The Journey
The company is ninety miles away from Mountain Hall, 
across the marshes and bogs of the Gladden Fields and 
the foothills of the Misty Mountains. 
 
The Journey has a Peril Rating of 2 and provokes 1d2 
Journey Events.
• 
Based on the usual journey rules, the trip back to 
Woodland Hall requires eight days of march.
As first presented in the adventure Kinstrife & Dark Tidings 
the companions can also press themselves with a Forced 
march (see page 55). 
• 
If they undertake a forced march, the return trip will 
take four days, but it requires two DC 15 Constitution 
saving throws. 
• 
As far as the pursuit is concerned, attempting a Forced 
march raises the company’s Lead by 2 points.
A Darkness in the Marshes
1
1

--- PAGE 96 ---
Wilderland Adventures
96
Other Routes?
While Mountain Hall is the closest haven to the 
Gladden Fields, the company may decide to head to 
Rhosgobel or some other destination, or try to lead 
the Orcs away from Mountain Hall. If the players 
choose this, then adapt the journey to the company’s 
new destination.
Hunted!
The company is pursued by Orcs out of the Dwimmerhorn. 
To handle the hunt, the Loremaster must keep track of the 
company’s Lead, which measures how close the Orcs are 
on their trail. 
At the start of the hunt, the Lead begins at a value 
determined by how the chase began.
• 
The characters were caught inside the 
Dwimmerhorn: Lead of 2
• 
The characters were spotted outside the 
Dwimmerhorn: Lead of 3
• 
The characters escaped the Dwimmerhorn without 
being seen: Lead of 5
This rating diminishes whenever the companions fail at a 
roll made to resolve the journey.
If the Lead rating is reduced to zero, then the company has 
been overtaken by its pursuers (see Overtaken! Below). If 
the company reach their destination before this happens, 
then they are safe from the Orcs.
Distance of the Pursuers
At the beginning of the pursuit, the distance between the 
company and its pursuers is rather small. The company 
can increase their Lead by attempting the following:
• 
Hiding their tracks (Hunters): This requires a DC 
15 Wisdom (Peception) check. Each Hunter in the 
company may only make one check for the entire 
journey. On a success, Lead increases by 1; on a 
natural 20, by 2.
• 
Taking unexpected paths (Scouts): This requires 
a DC 15 Wisdom (Survival) check. Each Scout in the 
company may make only one check for the entire 
journey. On a success, Lead increases by 1; on a 
natural 20, by 2.
If any of the rolls described above fail, the Loremaster 
reduces the Lead of the company by one for each failed 
roll. If any one of the tests fails on a natural 1, the company 
has left a trail or lost ground: roll 1d6 and deduct that 
much Lead.
Overtaken!
If the Lead is ever reduced to zero (or less), then the 
company has been overtaken by outriders and scouts. 
They have a last chance to either hide from these pursuers 
(requiring a DC 15 Dexterity (Stealth) check), or ambush 
them (their foes are Surprised and the heroes have 2d4 
rounds to defeat them before the main host arrives). The 
scouts consist of one Messenger of Lugbúrz and one Orc 
Soldier per hero. 
• 
If they succeed, their Lead rating is restored to a value 
of 1. If they fail, an enemy scout spots the company 
and reports back to the main body of the pursuers (see 
Caught in the Open, below).
Caught in the Open
If the company are overtaken by Ghor’s hunters, they 
have several options, most of them unappealing.
2

--- PAGE 97 ---
97
Stand and Fight
The company are massively outnumbered, but they could 
try fighting. They face some fifty Orcs, mostly Orc Soldiers 
and Snaga Trackers, led by Ghor himself. The company 
must find a place like a narrow gorge or rocky outcrop 
(see page 90 of the Loremaster’s Guide) that they can 
defend without taking on all the Orcs at once.
I’ll Hold Them Off
One or two members of the company could make a heroic 
last stand, sacrificing their own lives by fighting the 
entire Orc-host while the rest flee. The survivor’s Lead is 
increased to 3, plus one per Orc slain by the defenders. 
Unlikely Aid
The companions may be able to call upon unlikely allies 
to help them escape, such as the Lord of the Eagles, if 
they won his favour in Those Who Tarry No Longer. Allies 
may either increase the company’s Lead, or end the chase 
prematurely.
Arrival at the Hall
When the company return to Mountain Hall, they find a 
dozen archers levelling bows at them across the narrow 
bridge. They are under the command of Beranald, the 
doorkeeper. 
A moment later, Hartfast arrives to speak to the company. 
The traitorous guide Magric is at Hartfast’s side.
The chieftain challenges the company: “You are not 
welcome here. Magric has told us about how you tried 
to murder him in the marshes. You are outlaws and Orc-
friends! If I see you again, I shall have you put to death. 
Leave now and never return!”
The company must plead their case. This requires a 
Charisma 
check 
(probably 
Persuasion, 
although 
Intimidation or Intelligence (Traditions) can also work). 
The DC for this test starts at DC 16, modified as follows:
-2: if Walar is with the company
-2: if the company left on good terms with Hartfast, or -4 
if they left as friends of Mountain Hall (they have been 
shown the Horn of Warning)
-2: if the company are clearly injured after battles with 
Orcs
-1: if there is at least one Woodman in the company
+2: if there are no Woodmen or Beornings in the 
company
Treachery!
If the company succeeds in the test and instills some doubts 
in the mind of Hartfast, then a blade flashes in Magric’s 
hand and he attempts to swiftly stab the chieftain: if the 
companions didn’t expect anything like that, then Magric 
is able to wound Hartfast grievously, before he dives into 
the river. If no companion gets him with a spear or bow, 
he rapidly disappears as the bows of the Woodmen send 
arrows into the raging waters.
If Magric’s attempt to assassinate Hartfast is foiled and 
the turncoat is still alive, the chieftain of Mountain Hall 
turns on him with cold fury. 
“How many of my people have you led to slavery? How 
long have you plotted with my enemies? Damn you! If it 
is gold that you want, then gold you shall have! Take him 
to the deepest part of the gold mine and wall him up in a 
side tunnel. Let the traitor live in the same darkness as his 
Orc-friends!”
If the company fails in winning back Hartfast’s trust, 
the companions are refused entry into Mountain Hall, 
and must face the Orcs alone – see Caught in the 
Open opposite for guidelines on how to deal with the 
unfortunate result. 
Assassins in the Hall
The company finds safety in Mountain Hall. The settlement 
is well fortified, and Ghor’s force lacks the strength to 
besiege it. Woodmen Look-outs spot Ghor’s host approach 
the hall, and the Orcs even send some scouts up the 
valley, but the Orcs turn back and seem to retreat south 
towards the Marshes rather than risk an attack on the 
hall. Hartfast is pleased by this, and invites the company 
to stay for some days so they can rest and recover from the 
long chase. He assigns them places to sleep in a house near 
the trading post, and allows them to keep their weapons 
instead of leaving them at the doorkeeper’s house.
Unbeknownst to the company, Ghor travels only a few 
miles south before turning west. He meets with Goblins of 
the Misty Mountains, who show him secret underground 
A Darkness in the Marshes
1
4

--- PAGE 98 ---
Wilderland Adventures
98
passages that connect with the mines of Mountain Hall. 
These passages are too narrow for Ghor’s entire host, 
but are perfectly suited to sneaking a small number of 
assassins into Mountain Hall. Ghor himself leads this 
secret attack. His intent is to sneak into the Hall, find the 
company, and kill them before they can tell what they 
have discovered. 
Waking in the Night
One night, check passive Perception against DC 12 unless 
the company keep a Look-out even when sleeping in the 
hall. If any hero succeeds, then they are woken by the 
sound of guttural voices outside their house, and have 
time to grab weapons and don armour. If they fail, then 
the first warning they get is when the Orcs smash down 
their door, and the company begins the fight without 
armour.
The Assassins
The assassins are led by Ghor himself; he is accompanied 
by two Orc Soldiers and two Snaga Trackers (whose 
snuffling nostrils have located the abode of the 
companions). All are armed with poisoned blades (each 
enemy has the Venomous shadow ability, see page 117 of 
the Loremaster’s Guide). 
• 
The company must survive for six rounds before 
help arrives. Afterwards, the Woodmen come with 
Hartfast in the lead, and the Orcs are surrounded and 
slaughtered. 
– Epilogue – 
The Shadow of the Future
Surviving Ghor’s assault brings this adventure to an end. 
After resting at Mountain Hall, the company can bring 
word to Radagast at Rhosgobel of what they saw in the 
marshes. The wizard is deeply troubled by the company’s 
description of the spirit and the Chain.
Strangely, when more scouts are sent to keep watch on the 
Dwimmerhorn, they find the hilltop fort to be completely 
deserted. The Gibbet King and his servants have vanished 
into the marsh as though they never existed. 
Radagast speculates that the enemy did not expect to be 
discovered so soon, and has retreated to some other place 
of safety. He fears that the enemy is still plotting against 
the Free Peoples, and that the stroke will fall where they 
least expect it...
Fellowship Phase 
Either Rhosgobel or Mountain Hall may be made into a 
sanctuary through the Open New Sanctuary undertaking. 
The characters could also use Research Lore to investigate 
the Chain of Thangorodrim, and how it is said to be able 
to enslave the wills of others.
5

--- PAGE 99 ---
99
- The Crossings - 
of Celduin 
For Heroes of level 5 or 6
• 
When: The company may undertake this quest in any 
year from 2946 onwards. The adventure A Darkness 
in the Marshes should be played first. The adventure 
starts in the last days of November, when the city of 
Dale is preparing for the Gathering of Five Armies. 
If the adventure is set in 2946, then this is the first 
Gathering, held five years after the battle that gives 
the celebration its name, otherwise it is the ongoing 
annual celebration.
• 
Where: The adventure takes place east of Mirkwood, 
in Dale and the regions south of Lake-town.
• 
What: A raven brings word of an army approaching 
the Crossings of the River Running (the Celduin in 
Elvish), and the company are sent south to hold off 
the attackers until King Bard can rally an army.
• 
Why: Treachery has struck in the heart of Dale, 
and a villain has poisoned many of King Bard’s best 
warriors during the Gathering of the Five Armies.
• 
Who: The company meets and interacts with King 
Bard the Dragonslayer, and face in battle the spirit 
whose machinations have plagued Wilderland. 
Adventuring Phase
This adventure is divided into eight parts, taking the heroes 
from frolic in Dale to a desperate battle at the crossings.
Part One – The Gathering of Five Armies
Adventurers, warriors, travellers and heroes from across 
the North gather for the great feast celebrating the victory 
at the Battle of Five Armies. The companions arrive in 
Dale for the festivities, as does a certain Grey Pilgrim... 
Part Two – A Golden Prize
A merchant from Esgaroth offers a prize for the best 
warrior and best archer in Dale, and almost every fighting 
man in the town enters the contest. The merchant also 
promises that every entrant, regardless of how well they 
perform, will be part of a great feast. The companions 
may or may not choose to enter the contest.
Part Three – An Ill-Made Party
The feast is poisoned, and most of Dale’s soldiers are 
stricken with illness! The merchant attempts to flee – the 
company may be able to capture him before he escapes 
in a boat.
Part Four – Raven’s Tidings
A raven of the Mountain arrives, bringing word of an 
army that marches against the North. Soon it will cross 
the River Running. To buy time for the Kingdom and Lake-
town to mount a defence, King Bard calls all those who 
can still travel and fight to serve in this hour of need.
Part Five – South to the Crossings
The company travel south to the Crossings of Celduin, 
rallying the countryside as they go. 
Part Six – The Calm Before The Storm
The company arrive at a small village, and prepare for the 
battle to come.
Part Seven – The Battle Begins
The enemy attack the village, trying to force their way 
across the river. Battle is joined!
Part Eight – The Last Day
Having repulsed the first attackers, the company have 
only a few more hours to hold out – but are they clinging 
to a fool’s hope?
– Part  One – 
The Gathering of Five Armies
Word has spread throughout the North about the 
magnificence of the festivities held in Dale at the end of the 
month of November. For weeks now, travellers and traders 
have made their way to the town. The roads are crowded 
with all manner of folk, both locals and strange foreigners. 
Farmers who never travelled farther than Esgaroth rub 
shoulders with Elves of Mirkwood and Dwarves who came 
all the way from the Iron Hills or even from the distant 
Blue Mountains; some visitors have come north from as 
far away as Dorwinion. 
The Crossings of Celduin

--- PAGE 100 ---
Wilderland Adventures
100
If the company were separated during the most recent 
Fellowship Phase, they may have agreed to meet at Dale. 
Half the Free Folk in Wilderland will be here. Characters 
whose  patron is not attending, or who are of exceptionally 
high standing in their communities, may be sent as official 
emissaries to represent their folk. 
Arrival in Dale
The town is filled to overflowing when the company 
arrives. A sea of pitched tents has sprung up around the 
Traders Gate, and the Merchant Way (the road leading 
to Esgaroth) is positively crowded. There is a carnival 
atmosphere in the town, an abundant joy that mixes the 
excitement of the feast with the glorious end of the harvest 
season. Pedlars offer the company trinkets and sweets 
as they push through the crowded streets. Jugglers, fire-
eaters and other entertainers caper and dance. Every inn 
is full, and every voice is lifted in song. 
If any of the companions are from Dale, then they can stay 
with their kin or in their own homes. Visitors have trouble 
finding a room; a Rich companion can afford a room in an 
inn like the Drunkenstone, but everyone else must camp 
outside the town. Dale-folk with a good reputation may be 
offered a bed at the Royal Palace. 
The Drunkenstone
This was one of the first inns built in Dale, and was 
originally called the New Inn. A man named Skelid 
recently purchased it and changed the name. The 
sign hanging outside depicts the fabled Arkenstone 
above a mug of beer. Many of the older Dwarves of 
the Mountain consider this to be disrespectful to the 
gemstone, but that has not stopped younger, wilder 
Dwarves from wetting their beards with the inn’s 
ale. Skelid is young and ambitious, with his fingers 
in many pies in Dale, and he sometimes has need of 
discreet adventurers who are not afraid of a little 
underhanded work or burglary.
The Market
Traders have come from far and wide to the great market, 
the biggest in the North in many years. Dale is a young 
kingdom, and one with coin to spend. The former 
Desolation of Smaug has bloomed and brought forth 
rich harvest after rich harvest. The Dwarves of the Lonely 
Mountain get most of the benefit of this new wealth, as

--- PAGE 101 ---
101
the Bardings hire stonecutters and builders and artisans. 
The market brings many other treasures and wonders to 
Dale – clothing and jewellery from Lake-town, leather and 
woodcraft from as far as Mirkwood, wine from Dorwinion, 
smithcraft from the Iron Hills.
Many of the stalls offer toys, games or curiosities. 
Candied apples and figs, meat on sticks, ale, wine, dwarf-
spirits, mead from the Elvenking’s halls and all manner 
of delights are to be had. There are carvings and banners 
celebrating the victory at the Battle of Five Armies. Some 
stalls offer stranger things – books of lore, ancient scrolls, 
magical talismans, charms, love potions and enchanted 
philtres, rings that ward off evil, scales and claws from 
Smaug (they may look like bear claws or lizard scales, but 
the merchant insists they were plucked from the dragon’s 
corpse). The company pass two traders brawling, both 
accusing the other of selling a fake Black Arrow when they 
swear they have the original. 
Masks
Several stalls are selling painted wooden or leather masks, 
and they are doing a lot of business. If the companions ask, 
they learn that it is a fashion imported from Dorwinion, 
and that almost everyone will wear one tonight, after the 
ceremonial opening of the festivities. 
Amusements & Contests 
In the streets around the market, there are games and 
diversions where a lucky companion could win a few 
coins. 
Riddle-games
One of the most popular contests among the folk of Dale, 
the Riddle-game is held on a stage. Wit and charm are 
just as important as cunning here – if you can’t make 
the crowd laugh with your riddles, they are likely to boo 
you off the stage in the early round of the contest. By the 
end of the contest, though, the few surviving contestants 
are those whose minds are a storehouse of riddles and 
puzzles.
• 
If a companion participates in the Riddle-game, he 
must make a series of three Intelligence (Riddle) 
checks. The first is at DC 10, the second at DC 15, 
and the third at DC 20. If he succeeds at all three, he 
wins the Riddle-game and gains 200 XP. 
Sample Riddles:
Though I run all day, I never tire
For my bed is hard and cold
And though you’ll meet me on the plain
For my head is in the mountain 
And if I breathe on you
You’ll think I am a fountain
Who am I?
The River Running, 
which rises at the Lonely Mountain  
The more of them you take, the more you 
leave behind. What are they?
Footprints
You bury me when I’m alive, and dig me up 
when I die. What am I?
A plant
Song-contests
To enter the singing contest, a character must have 
proficiency in Performance. The DC to beat is 15. 
A companion who succeeds acquits himself well; a 
companion who passes by 5 or more is invited to sing at 
the Royal Palace on some future day, and a companion 
who passes by 10 or more is given a purse of silver pennies 
(20s) and asked to sing at the masked ball this evening. 
Any success is worth 100 XP.
Games of Chance
The most popular forms of gambling in Dale revolve 
around dice and a popular Dwarf game that is basically 
dominoes played with runes. There are stranger games 
however, like betting on which rat will make it out of the 
maze first or wagering sums of money on the colour of the 
hood of the next stranger to come around the corner. 
The Crossings of Celduin
1

--- PAGE 102 ---
Wilderland Adventures
102
The Opening Ceremony
At twilight, a crowd gathers around the fountain 
commemorating the Fall of Smaug, in front of the Royal 
Palace. A procession of nobles and courtiers emerges from 
its great front gate, and is welcomed by cheers and shouts 
from all bystanders. The group is led by Dáin, King under 
the Mountain, and a trio of elven emissaries clad in green 
and gold; they are followed by the Master of Lake-town. 
Last, King Bard makes his appearance, followed by his 
most trusted counsellors, all archers who formerly served 
in his company when he was but a Captain in Esgaroth. 
King Bard steps forward to address the crowd. His dwarf-
wrought crown glitters in the light of many lanterns. His 
frame is as lean and hard as it was when he brought down 
the Dragon, but this night his grey eyes are alight with joy.
“People of Wilderland!’ he shouts. “Years ago we were 
strangers to each other, as we hid in shadows. We were 
afraid of a world where Dragons ruled and Orcs were 
free to plunder. Then, one day our worst fears came upon 
us, and threatened to bury us forever, together with our 
weaknesses and worries.”  
The crowd grows silent, as an old man wrapped in cloak 
and hood emerges from among the king’s counsellors and 
takes place by Bard’s side. Bard continues his speech:
“But then the clouds that darkened our days were torn by 
the wind, and a red sunset slashed the West. We fought 
together at the Battle of Five Armies, and we prevailed 
together. And today we are here to testify that since that 
day we stand united!”
As the crowd erupts, the old man casts aside his hood and 
cloak, raising a tall staff: Gandalf the Grey has come to 
Dale! Sudddenly, the staff of the wizard blazes forth with 
a flash, and behind the Royal Palace, the sky over Dale 
erupts with the most magical fireworks, bright enough to 
illuminate the flanks of the Mountain. Flowers and trees 
and candelabras and shooting stars, and then a flock of 
great golden eagles that burst like the dawn. 
The Grey Pilgrim
The Gathering of Five Armies might be the first occasion for the company to encounter the wandering wizard. If this 
is not the first Gathering, then perhaps Gandalf is visiting Dale to evaluate the current political climate surrounding 
the courts of Men, Elves and Dwarves. Regardless of the precise cause for his presence, Gandalf is busy making 
private meetings with the various rulers of the area (especially if the year is 2948 or later) and won’t take part 
in the celebrations (he will leave before the masked ball begins). As a consequence, only companions with access to 
the court of King Bard can hope to get to talk to him: it requires a Barding character with the King’s Men virtue 
to be invited to the Council, or a private meeting if King Bard is a patron of the company. If the companions have 
played through the A Darkness in the Marshes adventure, then it is Gandalf who seeks them out. The grey wizard 
has conferred with Radagast, and is now worried about the true nature of the spirit that the company last saw on the 
Dwimmerhorn. Regardless of the nature of the encounter, the meeting is brief - Gandalf is busy with many concerns 
- and starts with the wizard questioning the companions about what they know about the spirit. Then, it is his time 
to talk, and his is an interesting tale...

--- PAGE 103 ---
103
The Dungeons of Dol Guldur
"Many years ago I myself dared to pass the doors of 
the Necromancer in Dol Guldur for the second time, 
to secretly explore his ways. What I discovered in that 
occasion is not a matter that I will discuss here, but 
suffice it to say that I found the place to be even darker 
and oppressive than before. It seemed to me that a new 
power had allied itself with the Necromancer, and 
ruled the deeper pits of Dol Guldur."
"It was there that I found Thráin, the father of Thorin 
Oakenshield, wandering witless and near death in the 
blackest dungeons. I came too late, and he died before 
I could help him, but with his last words he uttered the 
name of his gaoler and tormentor: the Gibbet King."
"I fled that accursed place before the Necromancer 
could spy my presence, but I knew that my visit didn’t 
go unnoticed. I felt the eyes of that dreadful lord of 
prisons upon me. The Gibbet King saw me, but seemed 
content to let me go."
The Masked Ball
As the fireworks die down, everyone in the crowd puts 
on a mask and starts to mingle. Musicians put hand to 
harp and mouth to flute, and the warm night is filled with 
song and dancing. There are several sets of musicians, 
notably a band of thirteen Dwarves (including Bombur 
himself) who get into a sort of musical battle with a group 
of Elves. While the two sides have very different styles 
(dwarven bombast contrasted with elvish harmonies), 
they are equally enthusiastic, and end up joining together 
to produce the strangest music ever heard in the North – 
but at least you can dance to it!
• 
If a companion won the singing contest, he is invited to 
sing. A successful DC 20 Charisma (Performance) 
check here wins the hero even greater renown and an 
invitation to play at the courts of the Elvenking and 
the King under the Mountain. 
Folk at the Gathering
There are several characters that might be met at the ball:
Bombur the Fat: As one of the thirteen dwarven 
companions of Thorin Oakshield on the Quest of Erebor, 
Bombur certainly qualifies as ‘great’. Since his adventure 
he has adjusted to his new uneventful life, and he is 
rapidly becoming the fattest Dwarf under the Mountain. 
He is here as part of King Dáin’s court, and to sample 
the Barding’s food. Dwelling mostly in dining halls and 
kitchens, Bombur knows all the gossip and secrets in Dale 
and the Lonely Mountain, and can be a useful source 
of information for the company if they befriend him. At 
the masked ball, he wears a Dragon mask – although no 
mask could hide his weight. 
Elstan: When Bard became king of Dale, Elstan was 
among the first to swear loyalty to him. The tall grey-eyed, 
gaunt northerner is called the First Captain of Dale, and 
commands the Royal Barracks. He is famed for his skill 
with the sword, and for his gleaming suit of dwarf-forged 
armour. Whenever the kingdom is threatened, he is there 
to defend it. The people love him, and he is the favourite in 
the melee to be held tomorrow. If any of the company is a 
member of the King’s Men, or are known for their service 
to Dale, then Elstan greets them. Others can try to fight 
their way through his crowd of admirers. Elstan wears his 
visored steel helm in lieu of a mask.
Gerold: Said by some to be kin to Beorn, Gerold is a fierce 
mercenary. A veritable giant of a man, his size belies his 
speed and reflexes. He can bury his axe in an Orc’s head 
with a serpent-quick flick of the wrist. If he calls any place 
other than the battlefield home, it is nearby Esgaroth. He 
is here for whatever prize can be found in fighting contests 
held during the gathering. Gerold wears no mask – he’s 
here for the free drink.
Galia: This young Elf-maid carries a bow that seems much 
too large for her slender frame, but her skill at archery 
is legendary even among her woodland kin. Of late, she 
has succumbed to wanderlust, and this visit to Dale is the 
start of her wanderings in the north. She wears a delicate 
wooden mask that resembles the moon. 
Lockmand: The merchant Lockmand is everywhere 
tonight. He is a merchant from Esgaroth who left after the 
previous Master fled the town. He has recently returned to 
the north, having made his fortune trading in ‘antiquities 
and curios’, and is eager to share his wealth. Secretly, 
The Crossings of Celduin

--- PAGE 104 ---
Wilderland Adventures
104
Lockmand is in league with the spirit. He wears a great 
golden mask that looks like a beaming sun. 
• 
A successful DC 13 Intelligence (Riddle) check 
reveals rumours that he has a questionable past. He 
was closely associated with the old Master of Lake-
town, and is now trying to curry favour with King 
Bard.
Observant characters may spot Lockmand speaking to 
Harrod the Fool in a corner about half-way through the 
evening. 
Harrod the Fool: A jester in green-and-red motley, Harrod 
prances through the crowd, making fun of everyone of 
note. He fixates on the proudest members of the company 
and mocks and mimicks them mercilessly. 
Harrod is not as young as he once was, and he hopes to 
win a place in King Bard’s court to provide for him in his 
old age, so he no longer has to wander from village to 
village, making peasants laugh for a warm meal and a 
place to sleep beside the fire. 
• 
Towards the end of the evening, Harrod’s spirits 
suddenly improve, and he capers with renewed 
vigour. Secretly, he was just hired by Lockmand to 
play a prank at the feast tomorrow night...
The Challenge 
Towards the end of the evening, Lockmand the merchant 
clambers onto the stage to address the crowd.
“People of Dale! Tomorrow, there will be a great contest 
of arms! Swords! Spears! Archery! Let us gather all the 
defenders of the North, and see which of them is the 
greatest! In honour of this fine Gathering of Five Armies I 
shall give a prize to the victor! Behold!”
He gestures to two of his servants, who drag a huge iron-
bound chest onto the stage. Lockmand throws the lid back. 
Gold and gems spill from the chest, which is crammed 
with treasure. “For Wilderland!” shouts Lockmand. “For 
the Free Folk of the North!” 
– Part Two – 
A Golden Prize
Lockmand’s servants must have worked all night long, for 
Dale awakens to find that a field has been cleared outside 
the town, between Ravensgate and the river. The company 
spot posters nailed to walls, calling for warriors to sign up 
for the tournament, which begins at noon. 
Entering the Contest
If the company choose to enter the contest, they can do so, 
and they are not alone – it seems that every warrior of note 
in Dale, as well as half the fighting Dwarves of the Mountain 
and most of the wandering heroes and adventurers in the 
North have signed up. A small army of clerks handles the 
entrants. The characters are asked where they hail from, 
which events they wish to enter, and are reminded that 
all entrants, regardless of how well or poorly they do, are 
invited to a feast at Lockmand’s expense. 
The Contests
Each of the three lesser contests - Archery, Strength, and 
Horse riding - works in the same way. There are three 
rounds – two qualification rounds, and a final round 
against a named opponent. 
Qualification Rounds
Each companion makes two rolls for every qualification 
round. The first test is to gauge the situation and prepare 
2

--- PAGE 105 ---
105
(evaluation test) and the second to resolve the contest 
itself. The DC used is the same for both rolls in a round 
and is indicated in the Contests table below.
• 
Succeeding in the evaluation test grants Advantage in 
the contest itself. 
For example, in his first qualification round of an 
Archery contest a companion would first roll Wisdom 
(Perception) to aim and compensate for wind and 
distance (thus gaining Advantage) and then a ranged 
attack roll to hit the target (both rolls DC 15); then, in the 
second qualification round he would roll the same skills 
to the same effect but against DC 20.
If a companion succeeds in both rounds of qualification, 
he proceeds to the final round. If multiple companions 
participate in the same contest, then any number of them 
can pass through the qualification rounds, but only the 
character who gets the highest result during the second 
round of qualification moves through to the final round.
For example, Caranthiel, Beli and Beran of the Mountains 
enter the Strength contest. Caranthiel fails in round one and 
is out, while Beli and Beran succeed and both proceed to 
the second round of qualification. This time, they both pass 
their Strength (Athletics) checks, but Beli only scrapes past 
with an 18, whereas Beran gets a 21. As they are competing 
in the same contest, Beran is the one who goes through to 
the last round, where he will wrestle Gerold.
Final Round
The final round is resolved with two tests, as in the 
previous rounds of qualification. The DC for the first test 
(evaluation) is DC 20 for all contests, and success gains 
Advantage as before. The second roll is resolved as a 
contest against the Loremaster character. 
For example, when Beran goes to the final round, he will 
have to first roll Charisma (Intimidation) against DC 
20 to impress Gerold and build his confidence up (gaining 
Advantage) and then will have to make an opposed roll 
putting his Strength directly against that of Gerold; this 
means that Beran’s player and the Loremaster will both 
roll the dice and directly compare their results.
Archery
Each round involves firing at a wreath nailed to a wide 
wooden board. Contestants must put their arrows inside 
the circle inscribed within the wreath, or at least hit the 
wreath itself. In each round, the targets are moved further 
away (the DC increases as shown on the Contests table). 
The Wisdom check at the start of each round is to judge the 
wind whipping off the Lonely Mountain and to estimate 
the distance.
• 
If a companion does not win then it is Galia the Elf 
who cooly puts three arrows through the bulls-eye and 
takes the prize out from under the noses of the Royal 
Archers of Dale and the archers from the Bowmen’s 
Guild of Esgaroth.
Horse riding
The contestants must ride by a set of straw targets at 
high speed, and thrust or hurl a spear into the targets 
as they pass. The Wisdom (Animal Handling) check is 
to control the horse, while the attack roll is to drive the 
weapon home.
Contests
Contest
Skills Used
First 
Qualification 
Round DC
Second 
Qualification 
Round  DC
Final 
Round DC
Final Opponent
Archery
Wisdom (Perception) and 
best ranged attack bonus
15
20
20
Galia (Short Bow +6)
Strength
Charisma (Intimidation) 
and Strength (Athletics)
15
20
-
Gerold (Strength 
(Athletics) +6)
Horse 
riding
Wisdom (animal handling), 
melee attack roll
15
20
20
Elstan (Dwarf-forged 
Spear +7)
The Crossings of Celduin

--- PAGE 106 ---
Wilderland Adventures
106
• 
If a companion does not take the prize then it is Elstan, 
the First Captain of Dale, who is declared the winner. 
Strength
These are wrestling contests, held in a fighting ring of sand 
by the riverbank. The Charisma check is to demoralise the 
opposition and get the support of the crowd, while the 
Strength test is the grappling contest itself.
• 
If a companion does not reach the final round, then 
the brutal Gerold is victorious. His final opponent is 
a strapping young Dwarf from the Mountain. Gerold 
uses his greater reach to outmanoeuvre the Dwarf, 
then lifts his foe by the beard and tosses him out of 
the ring and into the river.
Prizes
Lockmand promises that each winner will be presented 
with a purse of gold at the feast tonight. 
• 
Each companion who is declared the winner in one of 
the challenges gains Inspiration, along with 500 XP.
The Melee
The final event – and the one that draws the most attention 
– is the grand melee. This is a big mock battle. Theoretically, 
it is every man for himself, but in practise different factions 
stick together. So, the largest force on the field are the 
warriors of Dale under their captain, Elstan, closely 
followed by the Dwarves of the Lonely Mountain and the 
warriors of Lake-town. The Elves do not enter the melee.
Early Rounds
The early rounds of the melee see the participating 
companions fight against a host of lesser foes. To 
determine how the adventurers fare in the chaotic mess 
have each companion in the melee make two checks.
• 
First, each player describes how their character 
intends to approach the melee. Is their tactic to sneak 
around and wait for opportunities to take down 
weak or distracted foes? Will they charge into the 
middle of the fray, scattering their opponents with 
forceful blows? Do they intend to work with the rest 
of the adventurers, or make common cause with the 
other participants from their home cultures (“Men of 
Gondor, flock to my banner!” )
If a character has a suitable Virtue or class ability that 
matches their preferred tactic (Reckless Attack for 
charging into the fray, Sneak Attack for picking off weaker 
foes, Captain of Gondor for rallying their kinsfolk), they 
automatically succeed at this first check. If there is not a 
clear justification for the characters’ edge in battle, the 
character must make a saving throw chosen by the LM – 
Strength, Dexterity or Charisma to avoid the worst of the 
scrum. If successful, the companion gains Advantage in 
the first phase of the battle.  
Next, each character makes a melee attack roll against AC 
15 that determines how well the companion survives the 
first part of the melee. Check the result obtained on the 
table below.
Early Rounds
Weapon Skill 
Result
Conduct
Failed with a 
natural 1
The companion is eliminated, losing 
two-thirds of remaining hit points.
Failed
The companion is eliminated, losing 
half his remaining hit points. 
Success by 0-2
The companion survives, but loses 
half of his remaining hit points.
Success by 3-5
The companion survives, but loses 
one quarter of his remaining hit 
points.
Success by 6 or 
more
The companion is uninjured in the 
melee!
Following Rounds
Companions who survive the early rounds of the melee 
must make the same two rolls once again, only this time 
against a difficulty of DC 20. If any survive this second 
part of the tourney, then they are among the last few 
warriors to survive and move onto the final round.
The Last Few Heroes
After an hour of heavy fighting, only a few warriors 
remain standing on the muddy field by the river. There 
is Gerold, the wild mercenary. Despite using blunt axes, 
he has maimed one foe and smashed the dwarf-forged 
shield of another. In the middle of the field, atop a little 
5

--- PAGE 107 ---
107
hillock, are a company of Dwarves from the Lonely 
Mountain, who fight with the tenacity of Durin’s folk but 
are clearly exhausted. Finally, Elstan and a troupe of his 
best warriors (one for each companion) command the 
ground near the river, and have won the love of the crowd 
with their heroics. 
• 
If the companions still stand, then they must choose 
whether to fight against Gerold or Elstan and his 
followers (the Dwarves are too distant). Whichever 
group they do not fight battles the Dwarves. If they 
win this fight, then they must finally defeat whichever 
foe is left (among Elstan or Gerold). 
• 
Traditionally, only one warrior may claim the prize. 
However, if the company are the only combatants left 
on the field, they may either fight amongst themselves 
or else come to some agreement about who is 
considered the champion.
Gerold the Beorning
Medium Human
STR 
18 (+4)
DEX 
15 (+2)
CON 
16 (+3)
INT 
11 (+0)
WIS 
12 (+1)
CHA 
15 (+2)
Armour Class 15 (Unarmoured Defence)
Hit Points 90 (12d8+36)
Speed 30 ft
Damage Resistance non-magical piercing
Saving Throws Strength +7, Dexterity +5, Wisdom +4
Skills Athletics +7, Intimidation +5
Senses passive Perception 11
Languages Westron
Challenge 5  (1,800 XP)
Horrible Strength. If Gerold makes a successful melee 
attack, he may use his bonus action to cause 4 additional 
damage of the same type as the original type.
Skin Coat. Gerold has resistance to non-magical piercing 
damage (see above).
Actions
Multiattack. Gerold makes three axe attacks.
Great Axe. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 10 (1d12+4) slashing damage.
Reaction
Retaliate. If Gerold suffers a critical hit from a foe, he 
may use his reaction to make a single melee weapon 
attack against that foe.
Elstan, First Captain of Dale
Medium Human
STR 
16 (+3)
DEX 
11 (+0)
CON 
14 (+2)
INT 
11 (+0)
WIS 
11 (+0)
CHA 
15 (+2)
Armour Class 18 (heavy mail and shield) 
Hit Points 65 (10d8 + 20)
Speed 30 ft
Saving Throws Constitution +4, Wisdom +2
Senses passive Perception 10
Languages Westron
Challenge 4 (1,100 XP)
Actions
Multiattack. Elstan makes two longsword attacks.
Longsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft, 
one target. Hit: 7 (1d8+3) slashing damage or 8 (1d10+3) 
slashing damage if used with both hands.
Reaction
Commanding Voice. Elstan may use his reaction to 
utter a command when a non-hostile creature, visible to 
him within 30 feet, is about to make an attack roll or a 
saving throw. The target adds a d6 Command Die to that 
roll, provided it can understand the message. A creature 
can benefit from only one Command Die at a time, and 
creatures that possess Commanding Voice cannot benefit. 
Parry. Elstan adds 2 to his AC against one melee attack 
that would hit him. He must be aware of the incoming 
attack in order to parry.
Elstan Followers
Medium Human
STR 
15 (+2)
DEX 
12 (+1)
CON 
12 (+1)
INT 
11 (+0)
WIS 
11 (+0)
CHA 
10 (+0)
Armour Class 16 (corselet of mail, shield)
Hit Points 16 (3d8+3)
Speed 30 ft
Senses passive Perception 10
Languages Westron
Challenge 1/2 (100 XP)
Battle Brothers. If three or more followers are fighting the 
same enemy, and that enemy has no allies engaged with the 
followers, the followers have Advantage on their attacks.
Actions
Longsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft or 
range 20/60 ft, one target. Hit: 6 (1d8+2) slashing damage 
or 7 (1d10+2) slashing damage if used with both hands.
The Crossings of Celduin

--- PAGE 108 ---
Wilderland Adventures
108
The End of the Contest
The victor of the contest is lifted from the battlefield by a 
crowd of cheering spectators and carried shoulder-high 
through the streets of Dale to the feast-hall prepared by 
Lockmand. Other warriors pick themselves out of the mud 
and stagger after the crowd, eager to get to the feast and 
drown their sorrows. 
• 
If the winner was a companion, he receives 
Experience Points for this outstanding deed, and 
gains Inspiration.
If the companions were all defeated, then a battered and 
bruised Elstan stands victorious over Gerold.
– Part Three – 
An Ill-Made Party
The company – along with virtually every warrior in Dale 
– is welcome at Lockman’s feast. The merchant has raised 
a party tent in the market square. This is a feast even by 
Hobbit-standards, where it snows food and rains drink, 
especially the latter. 
By the time the companions arrive, the sun has 
disappeared behind the stony arms of the Mountain and 
the barrels of wine and casks of ale have already been 
opened. After all, tourney fighting is thirsty work! King 
Bard is not present, nor is Dáin Ironfoot; Gandalf the Grey 
has already left the city. Bombur, of course, would never 
miss free food, so he is in a place of honour at the high 
table, next to the winners of the various contests. 
In front of the high table is a plinth that bears the chest 
of gold promised to the winner of the melee and the 
three small bags of treasure for the best archer, wrestler 
and rider in Dale. Oddly, there is no sign of Lockmand, 
the merchant who organised the whole dinner. If the 
companions ask, then the servants assume that their 
employer is busy dealing with the cooks. The truth is 
much more sinister, although the company are unlikely to 
discover this immediately. 
Treachery in the Dark
Last night, the merchant hired the jester Harrod to play 
a ‘joke’ on the winners. Harrod is to disguise himself as 
Lockmand; he will wear Lockmand’s robes and mask from 
the ball the previous night, and pretend to have lost his 
voice cheering at the tournament. He will present what 
he believes to be an empty chest to the winner, open it 
theatrically, and then pull of his mask and reveal that he 
is in fact a jester. Lockmand will then enter with the real 
chest, or so he told Harrod.
• 
In fact, the ‘fake’ chest contains a nest of poisonous 
serpents and, by the time it is opened, Lockmand 
intends to be half a league down the River Running in 
a fast boat. The wine at the feast is poisoned, too. The 
poison is very diluted, to disguise its taste, but any 
warrior who drinks enough of it will be Incapacitated 
for several days. 
Intrigue at the Feast
Suspicious companions may wish to pause their carousing 
to find Lockmand. 
• 
If they do so, call ffor a DC 15 Intelligence 
(Investigation) check. Succeeding by 0-2 means the 
character finds ‘Lockmand’ – the disguised Harrod 
– arriving at the back of the tent; succeeding by 3-5 
means the character surprises ‘Lockmand’ getting 
changed, and spots that it is the jester Harrod wearing 
the merchant’s clothes and mask; succeeding by 6 or 
more means the character sees Lockmand and several 
of his surly guards loading a large heavy chest onto a 
boat and fleeing Dale under cover of darkness – see 
Tracking Down Lockmand, below.
Other companions may prefer to just enjoy the feast, 
trading tales of heroism on the battlefield and enjoying 
themselves. The food is excellent, and while there is a 
slightly bitter aftertaste to the wine and beer, there is plenty 
of it. Make sure to roleplay the servants offering food and 
drink to the companions, so you can determine whether or 
not a particular character takes part in the feast. This feast 
counts as a Short Rest, so characters may expend Hit Dice 
to regain lost hit points.
The Ungracious Host
Once the feast is in full swing, ‘Lockmand’ arrives. He 
climbs theatrically up to the high table, then points to his 
throat, shrugs and shakes his head. “He’s lost his voice!” 
shouts someone at the back of the hall. ‘Lockmand’ nods, 
3

--- PAGE 109 ---
109
then picks up one of the three purses of treasure. He 
mimes drawing a bow, then gives the purse to the winner 
of the archery contest.  The pouch contains 25 gold pieces. 
He then flexes his muscles and gives the second purse to 
the winner of the wrestling contest. Finally, he leaps onto 
the back of a passing servant and rides him around the 
stage like a horse, grabbing the third pouch as he passes 
and tossing it to the winner of the horse riding event. The 
crowd laughs. Bombur lets loose a great guffaw and rocks 
back on his couch, breaking it. He topples over backwards, 
and the crowd laughs even more.
Finally, ‘Lockmand’ goes to the chest and beckons 
everyone to come closer. He throws open the chest, digs 
his hands in and flings a shower of what was supposed 
to be golden coins into the crowd. He screams as he does 
so – the chest is full of snakes, not coins, and several just 
slithered down his sleeves and bit deep into his flesh. He 
falls to the ground, knocking his mask off, revealing the 
face of the jester Harrod.
• 
The snakes swarm everywhere, attacking in a panic. 
The companions can avoid being bitten by making a 
DC 10 Dexterity saving throw to dodge or kill any 
snakes that come nearby.
Poisoned!
The snakes are not the only calamity that strikes the 
feast. As warriors surge to their feet to avoid the swarming 
snakes, they suddenly feel dizzy and ill. Some collapse, 
others stumble. Any heroes who ate or drink at feast must 
make a DC 10 Constitution saving throw. On a success, 
they stay standing but count as being Poisoned for the rest 
of the adventure. On a failure, they collapse, recovering 
after a short rest but are Poisoned until the adventure ends. 
Few of the victims of the poison drank a lethal dose, but 
most are Incapacitated and cannot fight. 
Curing the Poison
The poison in the wine can be cured with purgative herbs, 
but such herbs are rare in the north. A DC 15 Wisdom 
(Medicine) check can restore a Poisoned character to full 
health in a matter of hours, but there are only enough 
herbs in Dale to cure a handful of warriors. More can be 
obtained in Mirkwood, but that will take several weeks. 
A Scholar might cure her companions, but to heal all the 
warriors would take many days.
Questioning Harrod
If the company manage to save Harrod from the snakes, 
they can question him. He is confused and terrified, and 
his story is jumbled.
“He, he said, it was just a joke! He’s supposed to be here 
with the gold, and everyone should be laughing! Where is 
he? What’s he done to me? Oh mercy, what has he done?”
Tracking Down Lockmand
After sending the jester in disguise, Lockmand fled 
to a small boat that waited on the Running River. The 
companions are unlikely to be able to catch him, unless 
their suspicions were aroused earlier and they either got 
an extraordinary (6 or better) margin of success while 
searching for him (see Intrigue at the Feast, above), or 
specifically headed for the river docks. 
• 
If the players’ actions put them on the right track well 
in advance, they reach the merchant as his boat casts 
off from the dock and heads down the river. 
In the darkness, the company can see four figures on the 
deck. One is clearly Lockmand; the other three are nasty-
looking warriors from the South. When they spot the 
characters, two warriors pick up bows from the deck and 
start firing arrows to dissuade pursuit.
Chasing Lockmand
The characters can either race along the riverbank, swim 
after the boat, or take other boats and row after it. 
• 
If the companions race along the river, Lockmand’s 
boat distances them easily and disappears in the 
dark.
• 
Swimming after Lockmand is actually not a good 
idea, as the waters of the River Running are very 
cold in November. The Loremaster should only 
allow companions with proficiency in Athletics to 
actually try. Catching up with the boat is a contest 
between the swimmer and Lochmand’s rowers, who 
have a +4 bonus to their rolls. The swimmer needs 
three successive victories to catch the boat. Should a 
swimmer fail a roll, he loses 1d6 hit points as he is 
briefly overcome by the freezing waters.
The Crossings of Celduin
1
3

--- PAGE 110 ---
Wilderland Adventures
110
• 
If the companions can borrow a boat, they find that 
the river is fast-flowing and only barely navigable as 
its waters tumble from the Lonely Mountain; luckily, 
Lockmand’s boat is weighed down by the heavy chest 
of gold, so the characters can catch up with the boat 
if they hurry. Chasing Lockmand on a boat is, again, 
a contest against Lochmand’s rowers, but they have 
Advantage on their rolls because they know the river 
better than the adventurers.  
Shot in the Dark
The three southerners aboard Lockmand’s boat shoot 
arrows in the direction of any pursuer. It is dark, and 
the boat is moving, so their shots are mainly aimed to 
discourage, not to kill. 
• 
If a companion gets a natural 1 on any roll while 
pursuing Lockmand, he is hit by an arrow for a loss 
of 1d6 hit points.
Fighting Lockmand’s Guards
The guards keep firing their bows until the company board 
the boat, whereupon they draw swords and start hewing. 
The merchant is a craven coward and will not fight back; if 
his guards are overcome then he grabs the chest, throws it 
overboard and dives after it. The chest disappears quickly 
under the troubled waters, while Lockmand can be fished 
out of the waters at little or no effort.
Interrogating Lockmand
If captured, Lockmand reveals that he was sent to gather 
the best warriors in Dale in one place and poison them. 
An army is marching on Dale from the south. Doom is at 
hand – if King Bard surrenders and yields up his crown, 
then maybe his folk will be spared the suffering. Lockmand 
claims that his master commands “...all the host of Dol 
Guldur – Orcs without number, men from the East, and 
a great host of Wights and Wargs”. A DC 10 Wisdom 
(Insight) check reveals reveals that Lockmand is lying 
about the size of the enemy army, and that he is simply 
trying to sap the morale of Dale.
Lockmand’s Chest
The chest that the black traitor sent to the bottom of 
the river can become the object of a recovery mission, 
probably a very adventurous one, especially because the 
gold it contains came out of Dol Guldur. Unbeknown to 
the companions, the treasure is tainted by the touch of 
the Necromancer, and its malevolence it is sure to attract 
the attention of some of the most evil denizens of the Long 
Marshes, or even of the Mountains of Mirkwood... 
• 
If recovered from the cold bed of the river, Lockmand’s 
chest can be opened to reveal a fortune in gold. 
Anyone who takes a share of this treasure gains 1 
point of Shadow automatically, and must pass a DC 
20 Wisdom saving throw or gain 3 additional points 
of Shadow.
– Part Four – 
Raven’s Tidings
By the next morning, Dale is afire with wild rumour. Tales 
of invasions, curses and poison are on everyone’s lips. 
Some stories claim that everyone who was at the feast is 
dying. Others claim that it is the curse of the Dragon taking 
hold, or that it was the doing of the wicked Elvenking or 
those troublesome Dwarves or some other foe. 
The Coming Foe
The next morning, a raven arrives in Dale. If any Dwarf 
companions in the group have the Ravens of the Mountain 
virtue, or a Barding has the Woeful Foresight virtue, then 
the raven comes to them. Otherwise, the raven alights on 
the roof of a bell tower and utters its doom to the townsfolk 
directly.
“Harken, men of Dale! Harken, folk of the Mountain! A 
terrible army approaches. Orcs and Goblins, with Wild 
Wolves to ride upon, coming with great speed up from the 
south. They ride for Dale!”
A Royal Council
The companions are among those least affected by 
Lockmand’s poison – many warriors are Incapacitated or 
too weak to stand. Considering this, it is possible that they 
voluntarily propose to offer their help to King Bard. If they 
do not, they are summoned to his presence by one of his 
men. The king can be encountered at the Royal Palace. 
When they go there, they pass through the vaulted stone 
portal into the lamp-lit hall, and find Bard sitting grim-
faced on his throne, with a map of his kingdom spread out 
5

--- PAGE 111 ---
111
in front of him. Normally, this hall would be attended by 
many heroes and warriors of Dale, but only a few managed 
to struggle from their sick-beds to attend council. There 
are, however, plenty of merchants and townsfolk here, 
demanding that the king acts to safeguard Dale against 
its enemies.
The companions are received with a welcoming nod from 
the king, who at this juncture is more than glad to see a 
group of armed adventurers join his council. The crowd of 
onlookers is less discreet, and the companions are greeted 
with a cheer as soon as they pass the gates of the palace.
If the company are unable to convince the fearful townsfolk 
that they can save the kingdom, then panic and fear may 
bring Dale down before the enemy even arrives. Dale calls 
for aid – will the company answer?
Motivation
King Bard needs heroes to defend his young kingdom. 
Anyone who can still fight is needed.
Expectations
+2: Heroes are first into the fray (the characters 
demonstrate their eagerness to defend the kingdom)
+2: Dale calls for aid (the characters can promise 
aid from a nearby land, like the Dwarves under the 
mountain, the Elves of Mirkwood, or the Men of 
Laketown)
+2: Wise counsel is always welcome
+1: Heroes are hale and hearty (the characters are 
clearly unpoisoned and healthy)
-1: This is no time for quibblers (the characters delay or 
haggle over rewards)
-1: No time for fools (the characters suggest foolish plans 
to defend Dale, or don’t offer any plans beyond fortifying 
the Crossings of Celduin)
-2: And no time for cowards (the characters openly worry 
that the task is hopeless and Dale is lost)
Interaction
King Bard addresses the council with a sober assessment 
of the situation. 
“Lockmand’s treachery has blunted the spear of the forces 
of Dale. The greater portion of our strength is lost until the 
poisoned warriors recover. And when they do, it will be 
too late.”
“The power of the Orcs of the North was broken at the 
Battle of Five Armies, but Wilderland is still stiff with 
Wolves, Orcs, and creatures of the worst description. It 
must be assumed that we face a powerful army.”
“The enemy’s outriders will be here soon. Dale has the 
strength to resist a siege, but if we retreat behind its stone 
walls, then the farmlands and outlying villages – not to 
mention Lake-town – will be vulnerable to attack.” 
“We must resolve what to do with the remaining time. 
There are two concerns at hand – stopping the enemy, 
and preparing Dale for war, even in the lack of its best 
defenders.“
When the king is done with his speech, Reinald, the chief 
of his advisors, asks those assembled for counsel. Various 
concerns and strategies are addressed below; if the 
companions do not suggest them, then Reinald himself or 
one of the other counsellors present does so. Heroes that 
suggest strategies or agree to reasonable ones earn a +1 
modifier for the Final Audience Check.
The Crossings of Celduin

--- PAGE 112 ---
Wilderland Adventures
112
Stopping the Enemy
Looking at the maps identifies the likely route of the enemy. 
They are coming out of the south and the River Running lies 
between them and Dale. To reach the town, the enemy must 
either pass through Mirkwood (unlikely, as they would get 
lost and could not ride their horses through the woods), or 
through the Long Marshes (impossible for an army). Only 
the empty lands east of the marshes remain. However, 
there are few places to cross the River Running to the east: 
the enemy must be making for the Crossings of Celduin. 
Marked on the maps of King Bard along the blue ribbon of 
the river, two hundred miles south of Dale and almost one 
hundred miles east of Mirkwood, in the region known as 
the Nether Marches, a bridge crosses the Celduin.
• 
A character with proficiency in History or Lore 
automatically identifies the tower drawn near the 
crossing markings as an outpost of the old kingdom of 
Dale, a tollgate perhaps. The map dates the settlement 
back to the time of Girion, son of King Bladorthin of 
Dale.  
The Town of Celduin
The companions might desire to find out more about 
what lies at the Crossings of Celduin. Any Northman 
knows that there are settlements along the River 
Running, living relics out of a past when a powerful 
kingdom ruled those lands. Some might be abandoned, 
and some others might still be populated to this day. 
Sometimes merchants from the south bring news 
and snippets of information, but usually everyone is 
too busy with their own lives to find interest in these 
matters. Traders from Lake-town might know more, 
and making a DC 15 Intelligence (Riddle) check while 
conversing with one might bear interesting fruits (see 
Part Six for details).
Seeking Help from Allies
While many of the best warriors of the Lonely Mountain are 
similarly afflicted by Lockmand’s poison, Dáin will send 
help if asked. So too will the Elves of Mirkwood. However, 
the heroes will need to be passionate to convince the 
mistrustful townsfolk of this course of action – many fear 
that their allies will abandon them in their hour of need.
Preparing Dale
One of the merchants suggests that King Bard order all 
his subjects to take refuge behind the city walls, or to seek 
shelter within the Lonely Mountain. Another counsellor, 
a farmer, says that if they abandon the countryside to the 
enemy, the fields and orchards will burn and the harvest 
will be lost. Which course of action do the companions 
advocate? Whichever they choose, as long as they defend 
their answer, they receive a +1 modifier to the Final 
Audience Check.
Stormcrows
Some wild rumours trouble the council, and should be 
put to rest. Who sent Lockmand? Everyone knows that he 
was close to the old Master of Laketown; maybe Lake-town 
is jealous of Dale’s newfound prosperity? Some of Bard’s 
counsellors suggest that the folk of Esgaroth may be behind 
the impending attack. Unless a companion convinces the 
Bardings to trust their neighbours, then they argue against 
King Bard’s decision to call on Lake-town for aid. Many 
fear that the poisoned warriors will continue to worsen 
until they die. A companion proficient in Medicine can 
assure the court that the poison is not necessarily fatal, and 
describe the course of herbs needed to cure the afflicted.
Conclusions
Make the Final Audience Check using whatever skills deemed 
appropriate, especially History, Persuasion or Shadow-
lore. Heroes that used skill proficiencies to provide valuable 
insight earn a +1 modifier to the Final Audience check.
Failure: While Bard is determined to defend the kingdom, 
many people believe that all is lost and the city must be 
abandoned. Dale will be sorely wounded by this panic, 
and the city beset by looters and fearful rumours in days 
to come. The companions will have to hold out for an 
added day in Part Seven – The Battle of the Crossings.
0-1: Bard politely thanks the companions for their 
intervention, but privately dismisses any course of action 
they proposed as meaningless. This will teach him about 
admitting adventurers to his war council!
2-3: The king is worried, but sees an opportunity in these 
adventurers: he addresses them and the few others who 
are strong enough to travel and presents them with a plan 
(see the King Bard’s Command box).

--- PAGE 113 ---
113
4-5: King Bard is greatly relieved, as the words of the 
companions plainly show him that not everything is yet 
lost! He proposes his plan as for 2-3 above, but gladly 
accepts suggestions and reasonable changes. Finally, he 
promises the companions a reward should they return 
victorious.
6 or more: King Bard is very impressed. Apply the 
results of 4-5 above; additionally, the king will consider 
the companions’ admission to his restricted council of 
advisors should they return alive and victorious.
King Bard’s Command 
The king knows that it will take days for him to 
assemble a host mustering what forces are available 
from the lands surrounding Dale and the Mountain, 
and even weeks before reinforcements arrive from the 
Iron Hills and from Mirkwood, if they come at all. 
The enemy will probably arrive in less than two weeks, 
substantially less if they press on under the light of day. 
He needs time, so he intends to send the few healthy 
soldiers he has to rally the countryside around Dale 
and Esgaroth, and the company of adventurers to hold 
the crossings of the River Running against the enemy. 
A bridge is a very defensible place, one that can be held 
by a handful of valorous individuals. With luck, they 
will reach the river before the enemy can cross, and so 
give him time to muster a force large enough to meet 
the enemy in open battle. 
Bard does not expect the companions to hold out 
indefinitely – he just needs as much time as they can 
give him. He will not command them to go (unless they 
are sworn subjects of Dale), but he asks for their help 
in this time of need.
Greedy Adventurers
Haggling over payment in times such as these can 
hardly be considered behaviour worthy of a hero, so any 
companion who does so is considered to have committed 
a Misdeed and gains automatically a Shadow point. 
– Part Five – 
The Journey South
King Bard provides the company with swift horses for 
the journey south. They are to ride with all speed to the 
Crossings of Celduin, and to hold the river against the 
enemy as best they can. Meanwhile, messengers are 
dispatched to the surrounding countryside, to the Iron 
Hills, the Woodland Realm and Esgaroth. Ravens too are 
sent bearing letters to the allies of Dale.
The Journey
The companions are to travel south to the Long-lake. Then, 
the company’s path moves into less travelled regions. 
The wild lands between Esgaroth and the river are not 
uninhabited, but are home to little isolated farmsteads and 
herds of sheep and cows, and there are few villages of note. 
They head south-east, skirting the edge of the Long Marshes, 
and then strike across the countryside east of Mirkwood 
towards the region known as the Nether Marches, beyond 
where the Old Forest Road exits Mirkwood. 
The Crossings of Celduin

--- PAGE 114 ---
Wilderland Adventures
114
The first section of the journey will see them ride from 
Dale to the southern borders of the Upper Marches. The 
second part brings them first to the River Running and 
then to the Crossings of Celduin. 
• 
The forty-league trip to where the River Running exits 
Mirkwood to turn east follows broken trails used by 
merchants. 
• 
Once they reach the river, the companions ride for 
eighty miles over easy terrain, for two more days of 
travel.
 
The journey takes five days if completed on horseback. It 
has a Peril Rating of 2 and provokes 1d2 Journey Events 
at DC 14.
 
Planning the Route
Because they are using mounts, the company ignore the 
first level of Exhaustion they receive on the journey.
From Dale to the Upper Marches
The journey from Dale to the Long Lake is easy and 
uneventful. The companions ride through the vales of 
the upper river, formerly the Desolation of the Dragon. 
In the years since Smaug’s death, this land has become a 
bountiful garden, bringing forth vast harvests of fruit and 
grain. They charge past many small hamlets, all of which 
are newly-built and have no defences worth mentioning. 
If the enemy makes it this far north, it will be disastrous. 
The Upper Marches
From the Long Lake, the companions head across open 
countryside. The River Running becomes a silver ribbon 
off to their right, before it is lost behind trees and the mists 
of the marsh-fens. The land here is almost empty save for 
flocks of sheep and their herdsmen. The inhabitants of these 
lands are Northmen, kin to the Lake-men and Bardings; the 
king has dispatched messengers to bring words of warning 
to the areas surrounding Dale and Esgaroth, but it might 
take days for them to reach these places. The company 
could take time to seek out the herdsmen and warn them 
of the approaching army, but this would delay them. The 
herdsmen have some permanent villages, but they are not 
on the company’s route. The company could search for a 
herdsman camp instead, but finding one is not a certainty.
Sounding the Alarm
If the company choose to seek out the herdsmen, call for 
a DC 12 Wisdom (Survival) check. Success means the 
company find a recently-travelled path and can follow 
it to a campsite where a dozen herders watch over their 
flocks. The herders are loyal to Dale, but only come to 
the valley for market every few months. They have heard 
nothing of the impending danger. 
• 
Any appropriate skill check made at DC 10 can be 
used to convince the herdsmen that Dale needs their 
strength, too. If successful, the herdsmen agree to 
contact their kinsfolk and send help to Dale’s muster. 
They are excellent archers and fighters, so their help 
A Thief In The Night
If the company failed to capture Lockmand earlier, the company passes a boat on the river that is travelling south 
from Dale to Lake-town. The boat crew pass on a strange story. A few hours previously, they spotted another boat 
docked at the river bank. There were four men on board, three of whom were surly river-folk, but the third was a 
merchant dressed in rich clothes. They seemed to be arguing over a chest. 
If the company investigate by making a successful DC 10 Wisdom (Perception) check, then they find Lockmand’s 
boat abandoned by the riverbank. Lying in the reeds nearby is the corpse of one of the guards. His throat has been 
cut. A successful DC 12 Wisdom (Survival) check reveals tracks heading off east. If the company is determined to 
find the traitor they can pursue Lockmand and his two remaining guards. Chasing down the treacherous merchant 
adds a day to the company’s journey. The company overtake Lockmand as he tries to drag his pony out of the mud 
east of the river; the poor animal is weighed down by the chest of gold. See page 109 for more details on Lockmand 
and his guards.
1
3

--- PAGE 115 ---
115
will be welcome in Dale. If the test fails, then the 
herdsmen decide that their best course of action is to 
drive their herds north towards the Waste, and to look 
to their own homes first instead of defending Dale.
Scripted Journey Event: A Flock of Crows
A huge flock of crows flies overhead. It suddenly 
changes direction and closes in to circle once around the 
company. Then, the flock scatters, with big black birds 
flapping in every direction. A successful DC 12 Wisdom 
(Perception) check (or bringing one down with a bow-
shot) lets the company see that these are nasty gore-crows 
out of Mirkwood. A companion with the Survival or other 
applicable skill or virtue can say that such behaviour in 
birds is very suspicious: it was as though the crows were 
sent to spy or scout the area. In the distance, the company 
see other flocks of such crows.
From the Upper Marches to the Bridge
Upon encountering the Running River again as it exits 
Mirkwood, the company turns east. The final part of the 
journey winds its path around rolling hills and river vales. 
These lands are empty indeed, although the company pass 
barrows and fallen stones that once marked the dwelling 
places of long-dead chieftains in time immemorial. 
Scripted Journey Event: The Raiders
The company are not alone in this land. While the 
approaching army is still south of the river, a few bands of 
Orcs and Wolves from the Mountains of Mirkwood have 
left the forest to meet the coming host. One such band (one 
Orc Guard, two Wild Wolves and as many Orc Soldiers as 
heroes) comes across the company as they make camp.
• 
Call for a DC 10 Wisdom (Perception) check from 
the Look-outs to spot the enemy well in advance: Orcs 
and Wargs are a loud lot, and they are thrilled by the 
prospect of joining the invading host!
If the company is aware of their presence, the companions 
can try to ambush the Orcs. If the Look-outs fail, then they 
may be the ones ambushed! There is one Orc Soldier for 
each companion, and half as many Wild Wolves.
Eavesdropping
If the company has time to eavesdrop on the Orcs, or take 
one of the brutes prisoner, they can learn something about 
their enemy from their excited comments (unfortunately, 
the Wargs speak among themselves only using their 
dreadful language and nothing can be gleaned from their 
growls and howls...):
• 
They have left their dens under the Mountains of 
Mirkwood because the ‘gibbet boss’ has sent word 
to leave the forest at once and meet the army at the 
crossings of the river. He is claiming that the time for 
revenge has come for all those who suffered by the 
hands of Elves, Men and Dwarves! 
 
• 
Most of the army is still well south of the river, and 
some of the Orcs grumble that by the look of it there 
won’t be enough of them to beat the Bardings and the 
Dwarves and the Elves all at the same time. The ‘gibbet 
boss’ has been able to draw all those who found 
refuge in Mirkwood out of the holes they had hidden 
in since the Battle of Five Armies, but, as one of the 
Orcs points out, they’ve less than a third of the troops 
that were there at the time. And for all the promises of 
the ‘gibbet boss’ about his dark magic, what counts is 
still goblin-feet on the battlefield.
• 
The ‘gibbet boss’ is a ghost or a wraith out of Dol 
Guldur, who speaks through the dead. Other Orcs 
are cheered by this, and are convinced that they’ll 
be joined on the battlefield by an ‘army of wights’. 
Others cynically argue that the gibbet boss will leave 
them in the lurch. 
• 
There is only one place where the army can cross 
safely – the bridge at the crossings. The waters of the 
River Running are too cold and fast for an army to 
swim across. 
– Part Six – 
The Calm Before The Storm
As the company approaches the Crossings of Celduin, 
even from a distance they can make out its narrow stone 
bridge arching across the river. Somewhat unexpectedly, 
they see a town sitting on its northern bank, with houses 
clustered around a fortified tollgate built at the end of the 
bridge. 
The Crossings of Celduin
1

--- PAGE 116 ---
Wilderland Adventures
116
The Town
There has been a small village here by the bridge across 
the River Running for as long as men have travelled this 
path. Celduin takes its name from the Elven name for the 
river. It is currently home to around one hundred people, 
including some twenty men of fighting age. Its inhabitants 
are a proud and independent folk of Northmen who collect 
tolls from anyone who wants to cross the bridge. 
Most buildings in Celduin resemble those of the town of 
Dale, at least those that have been rebuilt following the 
style of the old days. The bridge is different though, as 
it was built by Men from the South centuries ago, when 
a steady traffic of traders and merchants used to cross 
it on their way north, and it is only maintained by the 
inhabitants of Celduin.
Celduin
1. The Bridge: The bridge across the Celduin is made of 
white stone. It is kept in good repair, although the craft of 
the Men of the South cannot be replicated. The bridge is 
wide enough for two riders to go abreast, or for a single 
cart. Three men on foot could hold the bridge against 
many.
2. Tollgate: This two-storey fortification blocks unwanted 
travellers from crossing the bridge with a great iron 
portcullis. The upper level contains the wheels for raising 
Celduin

--- PAGE 117 ---
117
and lowering the portcullis, and also has a number of 
arrow-slits and murder-holes to attack those who would 
threaten the bridge. A narrow ladder leads up to the roof 
of the building.
3. The Inn at the Crossings: A large, stone-walled inn 
built to shelter travellers on the road. This is the second 
strongest building in town, and would make an excellent 
fall-back position or command post for the company.
4. Master’s House: This is where the Master of Celduin 
lives. His house is bigger than any of the other in town.
5. Docks: More merchants pass through Celduin by 
the river than by the road, and the number of boats has 
increased steadily in the last five years.
6. The River Running: The fast-flowing River Running is 
not easily fordable here; crossing the river is a prolonged 
action, requiring six DC 12 Strength (Athletics) checks. 
Each failure causes 1d6 cold damage.
The Master of Celduin
When the company arrives in town, they are welcomed by 
a crotchety, half-blind old man named Erik, son of Erland. 
He is led by two young maidens of about twelve years of 
age, Erik’s twin granddaughters Eydis and Erna. 
Playing the Master 
You’re old, proud and cranky. Young people these days 
are always rushing around, talking about doom and 
dire portents and things being in thrall to other things 
and dragons and necromancers. Pay no attention to 
their nonsense. The only important thing is keeping 
the bridge open, the tolls collected, and Celduin under 
your thumb. 
Erik is the current Master of Celduin, as was his father 
Erland before him, and his grandfather Egil before that. 
While the holder of the office of Master is chosen by the 
villagers, it has been in Erik’s family for many generations. 
Since the death of Smaug, news of the crowning of King 
Bard have reached the town, to the dismay of old Erik: he 
worries that the influence of Dale will diminish his own 
power, and that in time the people of Celduin will look 
towards the new king in the north and not towards his 
household for leadership. Therefore, he strongly objects to 
any interference from the adventurers.
The Enemy is Coming!
The Master of Celduin takes the news about an 
approaching army with surprising calm.
“So? I am no vassal of Dale. If whoever leads this army is 
willing to pay the toll, why should I deny them the use of 
the bridge?”
The Master is no fool, and has no reasons to doubt the 
words of the adventurers: if they are saying that it is Orcs 
who are coming, then it’s probably true. However, his duty 
is to protect the people of his village, and if the best way 
to do that is to let the Orcs past without a fight, then so 
be it! The village has only a handful of armed guards, and 
he fears that Celduin will be wiped out if they resist. The 
characters may argue that if Dale falls, so too will Celduin; 
the Master agrees, but says that if they offer him a choice 
between seeing Celduin falling after Dale and Celduin 
falling first, then he must pick the option that preserves the 
town for as long as possible. The companions can try to 
convince the Master to aid them as they see fit. Here are 
some examples:
• 
If they try to convince Erik that there is a hope of 
holding off the enemy, they can try, needing a DC 
20 Charisma (Intimidation) check, as the old man 
resents the empty boasts of warriors.
• 
Arguing that Celduin is lost no matter what – but if 
they fight back, then they buy time for the people of 
Celduin to flee and for Bard to gather his forces, is a 
plea that falls on deaf ears and automatically fails.
• 
They may try to move him with promises of wealth with 
a DC 15 Charisma (Persuasion) check. If the Master 
helps them protect Dale, then King Bard will reward 
him, possibly even adding Celduin to the Kingdom of 
Dale and making Erik the first Lord of Celduin. 
• 
Alternatively, they can bypass the master entirely 
and appeal to the people of Celduin with a song. This 
requires a DC 18 Charisma (Performance) check.
The Crossings of Celduin
2

--- PAGE 118 ---
Wilderland Adventures
118
Whatever skill the heroes use, check their highest margin 
of success:
0-1: Erik is not really convinced by the words of the 
companions. He feigns acceptance, and secretly starts 
preparing a plan: he intends to sell the companions to the 
enemy, possibly sending his two young granddaughters 
as messengers, sure that no one will dare to raise a hand 
against such innocent creatures...
2-3: The Master agrees to help, albeit very grudgingly. He 
puts the defence of Celduin in the hands of the company, 
but will continually interfere with what the companions 
are trying to do: the DC of all rolls made to prepare the 
village for the coming battle is raised by +2.
4+: The Master resigns the control of Celduin, trusting the 
companions with its defence. He keeps busy preparing all 
non-combatants to evacuate the town.
I am the Master here!
If the companions fail, then the Master stubbornly refuses 
to help defend Dale. When the first wave of attackers 
arrives at nightfall, the Master sends one of his sons to 
greet the Orcs and declare that Celduin remains neutral 
in their war on Dale. The Orcs laugh and one of them 
skewers the Master’s son on his spear, then kicks the body 
off the bridge into the River Running. “We take what we 
want,” shouts the Orc. “You will be our slaves!”
Preparations for Battle
The companions can now prepare for the battle to come. 
They can study the battleground and prepare the available 
defences. The paragraphs below list some rolls that can 
be attempted by the companions to successfully set up 
the fight. For each successful preparation, the characters 
gain one Preparation dice (d6). During the battle, any 
player character can take and roll a Preparation die and 
add the result to any one attack roll, damage roll, saving 
throw, skill check, or add the result to their AC in reaction 
to one attack. 
The Tollgate
The key to any defence of the town is the tollhouse. The 
portcullis is well maintained, but the iron gates that should 
close behind it are rusted open. They can be repaired by 
anyone with the Smith-craft speciality or smith’s tools.
Train Combatants
There are some twenty men of fighting age in the town, 
but only a dozen or so have weapons and armour and the 
training to use them. A character with a suitable Virtue or 
background can train them in discipline and combat. 
Send Explorers
Scouting on the south side of the river lets the company 
spy on the approaching enemy. On a successful DC 12 
Wisdom (Perception) check, they spot an advance 
party composed of Orcs, Wargs, and Orcs riding on 
Wolves approaching ahead of the main body of the 
enemy force, with a vanguard trailing them and the main 
host marching behind. 
Collapsing the Bridge
Collapsing the bridge is possible, but extremely 
difficult. A character would have to swim out 
into the middle of the river and then smash down 
the weaker central pillar of the bridge. Doing so 
requires several hours’ work to weaken the bridge 
enough to collapse it. If the company do collapse the 
bridge, then the enemy is halted, until they find that 
they can still ford the river to the east of the town, 
where the water is shallower, by having Orcs and 
Trolls throw stones and debris to create a ford: the 
delay buys the company extra time, corresponding to 
three additional Preparation dice. 
- Part Seven - 
The  Battle Begins
The enemy reaches the River Running nine days after the 
company left Dale (two days after they reached Celduin, 
if they didn’t tarry). The sun sets over the Mountains of 
Mirkwood, falling into the shadowy embrace of the forest. 
The few defenders prepare for the enemy assault. 
From across the river to the south, the company hear the 
howling of wolves grow louder and louder. Where do the 
companions make their stand? See the Bridge Map on the 
back end papers.
3
3

--- PAGE 119 ---
119
On The Bridge
The bridge is narrow enough for two or three characters to 
hold the bridge and block any enemies advancing across 
it. A character who is knocked Prone or Pushed on the 
bridge may be thrown over the side into the river.
The Tollhouse, Ground Floor
Companions using spears can stand behind the portcullis 
and thrust their weapons through the gaps at enemies who 
get too close. Characters standing behind the portcullis fight 
at Disadvantage, but can gain the benefit of three-quarters 
cover (+5 bonus to AC and Dexterity saving throws).
The Tollhouse, Upper Floor
The upper floor has the mechanisms to raise and lower the 
portcullis. The arrow-slits in this room give a commanding 
view of the bridge and the banks of the river. A narrow 
ladder leads up to the roof.
The Tollhouse, Roof
Archers on the roof can fire arrows at enemies on the 
bridge or banks of the river. The trapdoor from the roof 
leads down to the upper floor.
Banks of the Celduin
Swimming the river requires six DC 12 Strength 
(Athletics) checks to avoid being swept away. Climbing 
out of the river is easy enough, and does not require a test, 
but a character cannot attack while clambering out of the 
water and up the muddy banks.
The Town
If the enemies break into the town, the companions can 
take shelter in the wooden huts or the stone buildings. 
Inventive Defending
The players will probably come up with all sorts of plans 
for the defence of the town and its bridge. You should 
reward their good ideas with tangible rewards. For 
example, companions who take up positions at arrow 
slits or battlements could be harder to hit, giving them 
half cover. Maybe there’s less cover if they take to the 
battlements rather than the arrow slits below, but the 
greater height means that their weapons gain range 
and they can make an additional ranged attack as the 
enemy closes? If the companions can find some nails 
and have the time and ability to improvise caltrops, 
their enemies might take some damage as they cross 
the bridge. Encouraging and rewarding ingenuity will 
help bring the encounter to life for your players and 
lead to a memorable battle, fondly recalled around the 
fireplace in Fellowship phases to come!
The Crossings of Celduin
3

--- PAGE 120 ---
Wilderland Adventures
120
The First Assault – Orcs and Wargs
A host of Orcs and Wargs comes first, with the smaller 
goblins riding upon the bigger Wolves and scrambling 
down the valley slope towards the bridge. Heroes from 
the North recognise them as Orcs and Wolves of the 
Mountains, probably veterans of the Battle of Five Armies 
searching for retribution. 
Their leader stops in front of the tollhouse, protecting 
himself with a tall Barding shield defaced by bloody 
smears. It’s a big Orc-chieftain with red burning eyes: he 
observes the defenders and then sounds his hunting horn. 
“Open yer gates, maggots, or you’ll hang from them!” 
Assuming the gates stay closed, then the outriders charge 
across the bridge in a horrific tide of slashing fangs and 
black fur. Some of them make mad leaps from the end of 
the bridge to the river-bank, while others stop in front of 
the tollhouse where the Orcs start scaling the outer walls, 
hoping to climb to the upper storey of the building and 
open the portcullis and gates from within.
Fighting the First Assault
There are as many Orc Soldiers and Wild Wolves as 
heroes, along with an Orc-Chieftain and a Wolf Leader. 
Some Orc Soldiers try scaling the walls of the tollhouse, 
while others leap off the end of the bridge and try to 
reach the bank. The Orcs climbing the tollhouse reach 
the topmost level in three combat rounds, and then try to 
storm the upper level and open the portcullis. 
If they open the portcullis (and, if they were repaired, the 
gates), then the wolves on the bridge swarm through into 
the town. 
Defeating the Orcs and Wargs
Once the companions have killed or driven off half the 
enemies, the remainder either flee or are brought down by 
the other defenders of the village. 
The company have some four hours to rest before the next 
wave of attackers arrives. They can use this time to take 
a short rest, , recover spent arrows, rally their troops, or 
improve the defences of the village.
The Second Assault – Hill-Troll Chief
Four hours after the first wave, in the black of night, a 
monster over ten feet tall lumbers silently into view. The 
Gibbet King has summoned a Troll-chief out of Mordor, 
to bring destruction to the North!  The monster wears a 
menagerie of armour from various victims and wields a 
heavy hammer (see the Loremaster’s Guide, page 107). He 
is escorted by a dozen Goblin Archers, whose main purpose 
seems to be to direct the Troll towards the bridge. One of the 
goblins points at the river and yelps something at the Troll-
chief. The monster suddenly bellows thunderously as if in 
answer, and charges towards the bridge, raising its titanic 
weapon to smash the tollhouse down. 
• 
During the battle, the Troll-chief may scream at a target 
within 20 ft as a bonus action. That target must make 
a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or become Frightened 
until the end of the Troll-chief’s next turn. (This Troll-
chief gains the Fearsome Bellow shadow ability.)
Fighting the Troll-chief
The Troll-chief is a very tough opponent. If allowed to 
attack the tollhouse, it needs to inflict 50 damage on the 
gate (AC 15) to smash it. If attacked, the stone troll ignores 
its attackers until it is reduced to half its starting hit points, 
or it suffers a critical hit. If the Troll-chief succeeds in 
breaking down the tollhouse and opening the bridge, then 
the goblins swarm across the bridge and into the town. 
The Goblins
While their Hill-troll champion hammers at the tollhouse, 
the goblins stay on the south side of the river and fire 
arrows into the town. Some of these arrows are dipped 
in pitch and set alight to burn the thatched roofs of the 
cottages; others are soiled with poison. The goblins are 
cowards, and will not cross the bridge until the way is 
clear. They flee if the Troll-chief is brought down.
- Part Eight - 
The Last Day
The next day dawns with a grey light, and grim clouds hang 
low over the town. There is an air of impending doom and 
the joy of the victories of the previous night melts away 
when the townfolk see the carnage in the full light of day. 
Worse, to the south, the company can see the enemy army

--- PAGE 121 ---
121
approaching, seemingly as numberless as a tide of ants. 
With the defeat of the Troll-chief, the companions have 
several hours to consider their situation. How have the 
defenders of Celduin fared? If the company drove off the 
Orcs and the Troll without too much damage, then most of 
the defenders are alive. If company was hurt badly, then 
many of the defenders were also severely injured or slain. 
If the company sends scouts, they find no sign of any army 
coming from the north. To the south, across the river, they 
see the enemy host preparing for battle. The final attack 
will come tonight. The Master of Celduin suggests that 
they have done all they can, and that they should flee the 
town before the enemy attacks again. Heroes that choose 
to remain can benefit from a long rest..
Fleeing the Town
The company might at this point consider abandoning 
Celduin. As far as their mission is concerned they have 
partially succeeded: they have bought Dale enough time 
to gather an army, but not enough for King Bard to 
muster his full strength. The battle that will ensue will 
be much bloodier than it would otherwise be. But there 
is the safety of the villagers of Celduin to consider: 
if the companions flee without making sure the town 
won’t fall prey to the bloodlust of the Orcs, they will 
later discover that the Master didn’t succeed in buying 
the lives of his subjects in exchange for safe passage, 
and that Celduin was burned and pillaged. Having left 
the villagers alone counts as a Misdeed, and all the 
companions deserve at least 2 Shadow points for it.
The Wounded Warrior 
A woman of Celduin named Amadisa approaches the 
member of the company with proficiency in Medicine. Her 
young husband Beoric was struck by a goblin-arrow in the 
last fight, and he needs help. She leads the companion into 
the inn, where Beoric lies on a table. Examining the warrior 
yields a grim result – he is dying, and all that can be done is 
to make his last hours comfortable. The arrow penetrated 
his bowels and no surgery could hope to save him. Beoric 
is delirious with pain and fever, so Amadisa sits by his side 
and whispers prayers to whatever powers will listen.
The Raven
When the sun starts to set, look-outs spot a black dot in 
the northern skies, almost invisible in the dying light. Some 
of the more fearful townsfolk whisper that it is the Dragon 
returned, but as it comes closer, the company see that it is 
just a raven from the Mountain. The bird starts to descend 
towards the town – and then a flight of black darts shoots 
from across the river - Orcish scouts were hiding from the 
sun close to the river banks, and just emerged to bring down 
the bird! The raven is hit by one of the darts, and bloody 
black feathers rain down on Celduin as the bird plummets 
to the ground. The Goblin Archers yell in triumph, and run 
to hide again among the reeds and rushes.
• 
Call for DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) checks; if 
someone succeeds, they notice that the raven carried 
a small roll of parchment and let it fall. It was carried 
briefly by the wind, to finally drop into the river. 
If the companions recover the parchment, they discover 
that it bears the unbroken sigil of King Bard. The message 
it carries is still readable: 
The Crossings of Celduin
2

--- PAGE 122 ---
Wilderland Adventures
122
Dale marches south with Esgaroth and the Dwarves of the 
Mountain! Hold the river through the night. At dawn, look 
to the North.
Thus Quoth the Raven
If the companions search the area where the raven fell, 
they find him dying, neatly skewered by the Orc-arrow. 
There is nothing the companions can do but listen to his 
last words: 
“I am Korun, son of Roäc. I have at last reached the end of 
my days. Listen to my counsel! Fight the shadow with fire, 
or water. A foresight is on me, I am warning you.”
Voices in the Dark
When the night falls, the villagers of Celduin light lanterns 
and torches, and ignite bonfires close to the river banks, 
to better watch for the advancing enemy. But as the 
preparations for the coming battle draw to a conclusion, 
the wounded warrior Beoric dies. He shudders as he 
draws his last breath, then slumps back down on the 
table. There is a long moment of silence, broken only by 
his widow’s weeping. Then the corpse stirs. An unnatural 
light blooms in Beoric’s dead eyes, and his cold lips part 
as a lifeless voice emerges. 
The Gibbet King has taken Beoric’s body as its mouthpiece, 
and it addresses the company. Any characters who played 
through Those Who Tarry No Longer or A Darkness in 
the Marshes instantly recognises the horrible voice of the 
spirit.
“Fools! You think Bard the Bowman is coming to save you? 
Dale is afire, abandoned by Elf and Dwarf alike. No help 
is coming to you. No hope is left to you. Yield!”
The spirit knows that its forces need to cross the Celduin 
tonight if it is to catch Dale unawares, so it tries to 
demoralise the player characters. 
• 
The spirit’s baleful influence forces everyone to 
immediately make a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw 
or gain 1 Shadow Point. Worse, the company must 
keep making such saving throw (gaining one Shadow 
Point on a failed test) until one of the company 
speaks up and defies the spirit, breaking the spell of 
its evil words. 
Once one of the company defies the spirit, it leaves 
Beoric’s body. The dead man falls back and remains still. 
From outside, the company hear the sound of war-horns. 
The Final Assault – Orcs & Worse Things 
In the light of hundreds of torches and fires, an army of 
Orcs swarms across the bridge, if it still stands. If the bridge 
has collapsed, then they hurl themselves into the river and 
struggle across, driven by terror of the thing behind them. 
There are more Orcs than can easily be counted, but the 
company is outnumbered by at least ten to one. All are Orc 
Soldiers, Orc Guards and Goblin Archers. Judging from 
the devices on their shields, a companion with profiency 
in Shadow-lore or knowledge of orcs can identify the 
bulk of the host as fierce Orcs out of southern Mirkwood, 
reinforced by the survivors of the Battle of Five Armies and 
Northeners from the Misty Mountains.
Playing the Onslaught
There is no time for tactics; keep throwing Orcs at the 
company. For every Orc that falls, more take its place. The 
company need to hold out for as long as they can. Dawn 
will only come after they have confronted the Gibbet King 
(see the next section). As the combat wears on, describe 
the faint light on the horizon — the heroes should know 
that they must put every effort into this final stand... 
The Gibbet King Comes
Once several of combat have elapsed, a new horror 
appears on the far side of the river. In the wavering light, 
the companions see a wooden cart, drawn by a pair of 
black horses. On the cart stands an iron cage, a gibbet 
containing a rotting human corpse, little more than a 
skeleton held together with blackened sinews and rags. 
The same unholy light that was in Beoric’s eyes dances in 
the skeleton’s eye-sockets. 
• 
The skeleton raises one bony hand and points it at the 
strongest hero, uttering a Dreadful Spell: that character 
must make a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw; if he fails 
he gains 1 Shadow Point and is frozen to the spot, 
paralysed and unable to defend or attack for a number 
of rounds equal to his current Shadow score, unless he 
spends Inspiration to break the spell.
The skeleton in the cart is the current host body of the 
Gibbet King, the torturer and jailer of the Necromancer 
2

--- PAGE 123 ---
123
of Dol Guldur. Normally perceived by mortals only as 
a malevolent shadow, he needs a body to command its 
followers and affect the material world. Destroying the 
Gibbet King’s body will not kill him, but it will momentarily 
banish him.
If the bridge still stands, then the cart rattles down the 
slope towards the tollhouse. The spirit exerts its power 
on the portcullis, causing the iron wheels to slowly 
grind backwards and the portcullis to rise as the cart 
approaches. The company’s best chance of victory is to 
launch a last-ditch attack on the spirit itself, ideally with 
fire or water, as the last words of the raven suggested.
Attacking the Gibbet King
The cart carrying the Gibbet King is not especially 
protected, as the Orcs themselves fear to be near it. But to 
get to it, the companions still need to cut their way through 
the raging battle. 
Fighting the Spirit with Fire
The companions can try to set the cart carrying the Gibbet 
King on fire: to do so, they can throw torches or shoot 
flaming arrows against it. 
• 
To throw a torch upon the cart, a hero must make 
an attack roll as normal; thrown torches inflict 
1d4, but only set fire to the cart if the damage die 
rolls a 4. Shooting a flaming arrow puts the attack 
at Disadvantage, but sets the cart ablaze if it does 4 
damage or more.  
If the cart is set alight, it takes 2d6 rounds for the flames 
to reach the Gibbet King (further successful attempts to set 
the cart alight hasten this process, reducing the number 
of rounds by one). From that moment on, the Gibbet King 
loses 2d6 Hit Points from fire damage every round. 
The Gibbet King
Medium undead
STR 
10 (+0)
DEX 
10 (+0)
CON 
16 (+3)
INT 
17 (+3)
WIS 
18 (+4)
CHA 
16 (+3)
Armour Class 13 (Iron Cage)
Hit Points 67 (9d8+27)
Speed 0 ft
Damage Resistances cold, lightning, poison, psychic; 
bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing from non-magical attacks
Condition Immunities Charmed, Exhaustion, 
Grappled,Paralyzed, Petrified, Poisoned, Prone, Restrained
Senses passive Perception 14
Languages Westron, Black Speech
Challenge 5  (1,800 XP)
Actions
Dreadful Spells (Recharge 5-6). One nearby foe must 
make a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw. If the character fails, 
he gains 1 Shadow point and becomes Paralysed for a 
number of rounds equal to his current Shadow Point total. 
A character can spend Inspiration to break this spell.
Visions of Torment. As an action, the Gibbet King can 
force one target within 60 feet to make a DC 15 Wisdom 
saving throw or take psychic damage equal to 2 plus their 
total Shadow score.
Reaction
Feast on Suffering. Whenever a foe suffers a critical hit 
or is reduced to 0 hit points, the Gibbet King regains 7 
(2d6) hit points.
Fighting the Spirit with Water
Another way to destroy the host body of the Gibbet King 
could be to throw the cart into the Running River. Parts 
of its waters pass along the Woodland Realm (the Forest 
The Crossings of Celduin

--- PAGE 124 ---
Wilderland Adventures
124
River) and carry with them some of the benevolence of the 
Fair Folk, a bane for creatures such as the Gibbet King... 
• 
If the cart is upon the bridge, it takes a DC 25 
Strength (Athletics) check to push it over the edge 
(inventive players will certainly propose different 
ways to accomplish the same feat). 
Once his host body is immersed in the waters of the River 
Running, the Gibbet King loses its grip on the material 
world and is forced to flee.
If the King is Defeated
Destroying the king’s body by sword, fire or water scatters 
the Orc-host. Terrified by the loss of their master, they 
retreat back south or else flee the battle. The bulk of 
the army is still on the south bank, so the enemy forces 
are not wholly broken, but the defeat of the Gibbet King 
significantly slows the invasion.
If the Company is Overrun
If the company are unable to defeat the Gibbet King, or if 
they are overwhelmed by the Orcs, then a kind Loremaster 
can pull them out of the fire by having a group of outriders 
from Dale arrive, led by Elstan. The First Captain of Dale 
charges, scattering the Orcs long enough for the company 
to gather themselves and flee. 
The Army of the North
King Bard and his allies meet the Orc-host somewhere 
south of Dale. Whether the company was successful in 
holding the bridge or not, the Free Folk of the North are 
once again victorious – but the amount of time bought by 
the deeds of the companions heavily influences the nature 
of this victory.
The Companions were Defeated on the 
First Night (defeated in Part Seven)
The Gibbet King crosses the River Running early and 
pushes his army north. Bard is able to meet the enemy 
forces only when they are already inside the borders of 
the Upper Marches. The king of Dale is victorious and 
the Orc-army is scattered, but raiders plague the local 
farmsteads for months to come. The battle itself is costly 
and calamitous: of those who marched forth from Dale, 
less than a third march back home. Bard himself suffers 
a terrible wound. This will be remembered as a black day 
for many years to come.
• 
The companions are rewarded with 500 bonus XP.
The Companions held the Crossings of Celduin 
for one Night (defeated in Part Eight)
The Orc-host crosses the Celduin and Bard is able to 
intercept them several miles north of the river, fortunately 
still outside the most populated areas. The battle is bloody, 
but in the end the Orcs break and flee. If they weren’t led 
by their dark master, the Orcs might have been routed, for 
Bard and his men to pursue them and put an end to their 
menace once and for all. Alas! The Free Folk of the North 
must be content with a smaller victory.
• 
The companions are rewarded with bonus XP, and are 
hailed as heroes of Dale. 
The Companions held the Crossings of Celduin 
for two Nights (victorious in Part Eight)
King Bard reaches Celduin on the morning after the 
second night of battle. His host crosses the bridge at the 
Crossings amid the cheers of the exhausted villagers, and 
falls upon the Orcs before they reorganize themselves. 
Warriors from Dale, archers from Lake-town and many 
stout dwarven warriors from the Mountain and the Iron 
Hills utterly crush the enemy and win a glorious victory. 
• 
The companions are rewarded with bonus XP, and are 
richly rewarded by King Bard.   
Aftermath
There is one curious and worrisome footnote to the whole 
affair. Among all the combatants who participated and 
survived the battle, no one brings back news of the Gibbet 
King. It is as though the spirit has once again vanished 
into shadow...
There is no time for a Fellowship Phase after this adventure 
– the company have a few days to recover before The 
Watch on the Heath begins.
5

--- PAGE 125 ---
125
- The Watch - 
on the Heath 
For Heroes of level 6 or higher
• 
When: This adventure takes place shortly after The 
Crossings of Celduin. There is no time for a Fellowship 
Phase between the two quests.
• 
Where: The company returns to Dale after their 
defence of the bridge over the Celduin. While the 
Orcs who served the Gibbet King were defeated, the 
spirit itself is still at large. From Erebor, the company 
travel across the Waste into the mountains of the 
north, and the edge of the Withered Heath.
• 
What: The company are sent to an abandoned 
dwarven watchtower to investigate.
• 
Why: Before betraying the warriors of Dale, the 
merchant Lockmand visited the Lonely Mountain 
and consulted with certain ancient records held in 
the vaults there. His interest in the old watchtower 
seemed innocent, but it must conceal a sinister 
purpose.
• 
Who: The chief foe of this tale is the Gibbet King 
itself, a spirit of growing power who plots to seize 
control of a dragon and rain destruction on the Free 
Folk of the North.  
Adventuring Phase
This adventure is divided into six parts.
Part One – Council Under The Mountain  
The company are called to Dáin’s seat under the Mountain, 
where he tells them of certain recent troubling events, and 
commands them to investigate.
Part Two – Across the Trackless Waste
The company set forth from the Lonely Mountain and face 
the perils of the Waste. There, they meet a strange creature 
called Witherfinger, who knows much of what transpires 
in the region. If the company can win her favour, she can 
help them in their quest. 
Part Three – The Grey Mountains
Monsters slumber in the foothills of the Grey Mountains, 
and the company must tread warily as they find their way 
to the watchtower.
Part Four – Zirakinbar
The company arrive at the ancient watchtower, and 
discover that a dire plan is afoot. 
Part Five – The Scourge of the North 
The companions have the chance to meet Raenar, the 
plunderer, and strike an uneasy alliance (or die a dolorous 
death).  
Part Six – The Watchtower 
Wherein the tower carved on the peak of Zirakinbar is 
described, and the nefarious plans of the Gibbet King 
discussed.
Epilogue - A Renewed Spring of Joy
If the companions defeat the Gibbet King, they will have 
bought Wilderland a few years of prosperity, and finally 
concluded a threat that started plaguing them long before.
 
– Part One – 
Council Under The Mountain 
The army of Dale marches home. Whether they have come 
back in glory, or on their shields, the warriors of the town 
are welcomed back by their families and friends. The new 
kingdom has survived another trial, another attack by the 
forces of darkness. Dale endures. There are no feasts to 
celebrate this victory, for it was bought at great cost. Help 
has come from both the halls of Thranduil and from far 
Rhosgobel to attend to those poisoned by Lockmand or 
wounded in battle, so all the company are rapidly restored 
to full health (they get all their hit points and Hit Dice back). 
A Secret Summoning
A few days after the battle, the company are contacted 
by a Dwarf wearing a grey hood. He bows low and 
introduces himself as Ori, one of the companions of Thorin 
Oakenshield. (If the company has had dealings with the 
survivors of Thorin’s Company before then Ori recognises 
them and greets them warmly.) Ori is a well-travelled 
The Watch on the Heath

--- PAGE 126 ---
Wilderland Adventures
126
and personable Dwarf, friendly even to Elves, and often 
serves King Dáin as an ambassador and diplomat. Today, 
though, his mission is more secretive, and he wears a 
humble, travel-stained cloak (the very same cloak, in fact, 
that he wore on the Quest of Erebor some years ago) over 
his fine clothes.
• 
Ori informs the company that King Dáin wishes to 
speak with them under the Mountain. He has ponies 
and horses waiting outside, and the company should 
come immediately.
To Erebor
On the road that from Dale leads to the gate of the Lonely 
Mountain, the company pass many Dwarves returning 
home from the battle, or busy at work on the ancient road 
that leads between the two cities. Soon, they reache the 
great cliff-wall where the River Running springs out of the 
Mountain. Leaving their mounts there, Ori leads them 
through the Front Gate, into a maze of wide passages, 
high chambers and halls. Inside the Dwarven fastness, 
a veritable army of craftsmen are hard at work, and the 
corridors echo with the din of hammers and chisels. 
After a while, the companions lose count of the downward 
stairs and sloping passages they have passed, and know 
simply that they must be deep in the roots of the Lonely 
Mountain. They pass the vast chamber where Smaug lay 
atop his fabulous hoard - something of the dragon lingers 
there, a trace of sulphur and greed and heat that will never 
be washed away. The company are led past the hall down 
into deeper tunnels. Smaug never despoiled this particular 
section of the Mountain; he could smell there was no gold 
down here, and the few Dwarves who did take refuge in 
this warren of tunnels found themselves trapped here in 
the darkness, and they starved to death. 
Finally, Ori brings the company to a stone door, marked 
with dwarf-runes. He pushes it open, leading them into 
the Chamber of Mazarbul under Erebor - the Chamber of 
Records of the Dwarves of the Mountain. Inside the wide 
rectangular hall waits Dáin Ironfoot, Lord of the Iron Hills 
and King under the Mountain. 
An Audience with King Dáin 
Dáin is a stern and proud Dwarf, perhaps the greatest 
warrior of the line of Durin in this age of the world. A 
crown of mithril glitters on his head, but on his feet he 
still wears the iron-banded shoes of a miner. Also in the 
chamber is a third Dwarf, whose white beard stretches 
down to the floor. This is one of Dáin’s counsellors, a sage 
named Munin. The Dwarves wait until the companions 
formally introduce themselves (a DC 15 Intelligence 
(Traditions) check)..
Motivation
Dain seeks heroes he can trust. The dwarf-king is secretive 
by nature, and loathe to reveal the secrets of his folk to 
outsiders. 
Expectations
+2: The secrets of the Dwarves will never be revealed 
(gained if the company swear an oath to this effect)
+1: Wisdom and long beards are to be honoured (if 
there’s a dwarf or scholar in the company)	
+1: Past deeds reflect future promise (for each relevant 
deed that the company have already accomplished, 
like capturing Lockmand or identifying the chain of 
Thangorodrim)
-1: Deference is a king’s due. (Dain is a stickler for 
formality.)
Interaction
King Dáin begins by giving a short account of recent events 
in Erebor. 
“Last year, we received the visit of a merchant from Lake-
town. He bore letters of introduction from the Master of 
Esgaroth, and gave his name as Lockmand. He had a 
treasure to trade with us, a shield that once belonged to 
Thrór, the grandfather of Thorin Oakenshield. The shield 
had passed from Thrór to his son Thráin, and it was 
believed lost since when Thráin disappeared in Mirkwood 
one hundred years ago. Lockmand claimed to have bought 
the shield in a market in the far south.” 
“In exchange for the shield, Lockmand wanted payment in 
gold, and a fair price was arranged. He also asked, as a 
favour, for a look in our records. He claimed to be a buyer 
and seller of treasures and relics, and he hoped that the 
old books might contain information useful to him. But 
we do not let foreigners easily in our Chamber of Records, 
and we deliberated for some time before finally refusing 
his request.”
5

--- PAGE 127 ---
127
At this point, Munin takes over the tale. He introduces 
himself as the keeper of records. 
“One night, I was awoken by strange sounds coming from 
the Hall of Mazarbul. I descended to investigate, and 
whatever-it-was fled before I could see it. I searched the 
vaults, but found nothing amiss, and then I soon forgot 
the matter.” 
At this point, Munin hangs his head in shame. 
“The truth is that I was not diligent enough. One book was 
out of place, and I did not notice. It was only when news 
reached the Mountain of Lockmand’s treachery in Dale 
that I recognised the name and made a fuller search of the 
vault, and found out what happened.”
Munin takes a large metal-bound book out of a case and 
places it carefully on the table. The book is obviously very 
old, but the dry air of vaults has preserved the parchment 
almost perfectly. The record-keeper handles the pages 
carefully. 
“This book is one of a great many similar records detailing 
the building of the works and fortifications of the Kingdom 
under the Mountain. This particular volume describes a 
watchtower that our folk built in the Grey Mountains to 
the north. Its purpose was to keep a watch on the Withered 
Heath, and send a warning south would one of the great 
worms that lived there threaten to cross the mountains.” 
“No Dwarf living today knows if the watchtower was 
attacked by Smaug before he came to Erebor, or if the 
warning came too late. In any event, as far we can tell, the 
watchtower has been deserted for many decades.” 
Munin shows the company the book. Lockmand cut a 
page out of it. From its placement in the book, it was likely 
a map of the watchtower. King Dáin observes the reactions 
of the companions, then concludes:
“We do not know why this merchant seeks an abandoned 
watchtower. We don’t even know if Lockmand’s theft has 
anything to do with the recent attack on Dale. But I sent a 
raven north to look for and investigate the watchtower, and 
the bird has not returned. I worry that danger still hangs 
over Dale and the Mountain.” 
We Captured Lockmand!
If the company captured the merchant Lockmand 
during The Crossings of Celduin, then the players may 
ask why the merchant is not being questioned to find 
out what he was doing in Erebor last year. Ori shakes 
his head and tells the company that Lockmand is dead. 
The merchant was locked in a jail cell in Dale, but 
was found dead a few days ago. His body was icy cold, 
and there was an expression of utter terror on his face. 
Whatever evil killed him, it passed by all the guards 
and watchmen in King Bard’s hall without being seen. 
The King under the Mountain needs counsel. What do the 
company say? Various topics are addressed below.
The War
The companions can speculate (correctly) that the recent 
attack on Dale may have been a diversion, to allow the 
enemy to slip past the Mountain and head for the northern 
wastes. The Orc army was too small to conquer Dale, and 
the enemy does not squander forces without purpose. 
The Chain
If the company mention the chain they saw on the 
Dwimmerhorn during A Darkness in the Marshes, then 
both Dáin and Munin stroke their beards thoughtfully. 
The connection between the chain and the watchtower 
is a mystery to them, but the chain is another significant 
factor that should be considered.
Where Exactly is the Watchtower?
The book that Lockmand perused and vandalised is unclear 
about the location of the watchtower. If Lockmand is still 
at large, this might lead the companions to the conclusion 
that if the watchtower is involved in the next stage of the 
merchant’s plans he cannot have too much of a lead on 
them, as he is probably still searching the mountains. 
• 
Scholarly companions can try to locate the 
watchtower by spending a fortnight studying with 
Munin in the Chamber of Mazarbul and making a DC 
15 Intelligence (Lore) check. On a success, they find 
additional details in a volume about the construction of 
The Watch on the Heath

--- PAGE 128 ---
Wilderland Adventures
128
Dwarven roads: the watchtower has been dug into the 
tip of a mountain peak called Zirakinbar; this isolated 
horn of rock rises about eighty miles north of Erebor, in 
the southeastern arm of the Grey Mountains.
Conclusions
Make a Final Audience Check using Traditions, Lore or 
History. Compare the margin of success to the list below:
Failure: Dáin is dismayed by the lack of initiative from the 
companions. The king doesn’t comment, but he certainly 
hopes that they make better adventurers than diplomats!
0-2: The King under the Mountain offers the company a 
fine reward from his armoury once they return from the 
quest. If there is at least one Dwarf in the company, the king 
allows them to take the book describing the watchtower 
with them, but only if they expressly ask for permission.
3-5: As 0-2 above; additionally, the king allows the 
company to take the book even without a Dwarf.
6+: King Dáin is positively impressed. Apply the results 
above; additionally, the king directly proposes that the 
company carry the book with them, and permits the 
characters to take their reward from his armoury before 
departing for the watchtower. (See Epilogue on page 142.)
If there are no Dwarves in the group, or if the companions 
do not ask to take the book and the king doesn’t tell them 
Dwarven records can be written in the secret language of 
the Dwarves, but also in the Common speech, using dwarf-
runes or various Elvish scripts. The book describing the 
watchtower is written in a dense, hard-to-read style that 
combines the Common Speech with Khuzdul terminology. 
A character can try reading the book while travelling, 
at night by the light of a campfire. Doing so costs one 
level of Exhaustion, but allows the character to make a 
Intelligence (Lore) check each night. The difficulty for 
the roll is DC 15, or DC 10 if the reader is a Dwarf. 
Each successful check reveals one of the following secrets:
1. Secret Entrance: There is a concealed entrance into 
the cellars of the watchtower. The key to the door is "a 
polished axe, thrice".
2. Traps: The Great Hall is guarded by a mighty stone. 
Should enemies breach the gate, the stone can be lowered 
to block the entrance tunnel, protecting the watchtower 
from the mightiest foes.
3. Treasure Vault: A secret vault was built when the tower 
was carved out of the mountain. It is in the last bedchamber 
on the left, and the entrance is hidden in the floor. 
4. Dangers of Dragons: Light no fire when in the Grey 
Mountains, and keep your gold out of the wind. Dragons 
can smell gold.
5. Chamber of Winds: The upper level of the watchtower 
is a great chamber where eight tunnels meet and eight 
windows look out over the world. Each of the tunnels has a 
separate door that can be opened or closed independently. 
When the wind blows, the tunnels become musical 
instruments and the mountain produces powerful sounds, 
originally used by the watchmen in the case of the direst 
emergencies. But the ingenious device can prove very 
dangerous: when the wind blows from the north, make 
sure not to open the north, south and north-east doors 
simultaneously, or the mountain’s howl is so loud as to be 
dangerous!
6. Raven’s Perch: For ordinary communications, at the 
very top of the watchtower is a small chamber where the 
Dwarves kept raven messengers. It looks down onto the 
Chamber of Winds. It is reached by a spiral staircase that 
opens off the main stairs. 
If the companions do not take the book, then Munin’s 
research reveals one of the secrets (roll a d6 to decide 
which) before the company leaves Erebor. 
Secrets of Mazarbul
1

--- PAGE 129 ---
129
to do so, then Munin promises to study the volume as 
much as he can before the group departs, but he fears that 
the dense tome will take too long for him to unlock all its 
secrets. See Secrets of Mazarbul, on the previous page.
The Last Night
Once the company have agreed to undertake the quest, 
Dáin tells them they will depart at first light tomorrow. 
They will be provided with such supplies and travelling 
gear as the Dwarves can muster; Ori will see to their 
needs. The king departs, and leaves the company in Ori’s 
care. Ori brings the company back up to the first level of 
the Mountain, and shows them to a dining hall where 
they are treated to the Dwarves’ hospitality. The company 
are also equipped with travelling gear and other supplies 
(each hero may select 100s of gear before leaving).
–Part Two – 
Across the Trackless Waste
The company leave the Mountain by the North Door, a 
postern gate only recently opened after some one hundred 
and fifty years buried under fallen stones. The view from 
the Mountain’s northern flank is not as pleasant as the 
view from the Front Gate. Instead of the lights of Dale, the 
green valley, and the bright waters of the river running 
away into the south, the company look out upon miles of 
empty, trackless wasteland. Beyond the Waste they see a 
dark ridge of mountain peaks - the Grey Mountains.
“Good luck”, says Ori, “I rather wish I was going with you. 
You might see a Dragon along your quest. You may not 
believe it, but during our adventure I never laid my eyes 
upon Smaug, and some people from Lake-town described 
his wrath as being terrible and beautiful at the same time. 
Is that not strange? Well, good luck and safe travels.”
The Journey
The companions must journey across miles of broken 
land to reach the Grey Mountains. The Waste is a trackless 
wilderness, full of strange twisted shapes of stone and 
blind canyons. Little grows there except thorny bracken 
and weeds. No travellers go there and no folk dwell there. 
• 
This journey to the Grey Mountains covers eighty 
miles across trackless, hard terrain. The journey takes 
eight days on average. The Peril Rating for the Journey 
is 3 and it provokes 1d2+1 Journey Events at DC 15.
Once across, the company will have to find and ascend 
the peak of Zirakinbar.
Corruption Checks
The Waste is a Shadow Land, so a DC 15 Wisdom saving 
throw is required every day to avoid gaining a point of 
Shadow. The endless piles of stone and looming tors seem 
almost like gravestones, and as weariness takes hold, the 
companions seem to glimpse impossible shapes lurking 
in the stones or swirling in the fog. 
From Erebor to the Grey Mountains 
Unlike the Desolation of Smaug, the Waste is a land that 
is forever tainted. The Desolation is a fresh scar that may 
heal cleanly; this land is a rotten corpse, a gangrenous 
wound. Nothing seems to live here, amidst the tumbled 
hills and the reeking pools of foul water.
The Watch on the Heath
2

--- PAGE 130 ---
Wilderland Adventures
130
Searching for Signs
As the company travel, they make a grim discovery. They 
find the corpse of an Orc at the bottom of a gully. From 
his gear and weapons, the Orc seems to have been part 
of the same band that attacked Dale. Searching around 
nearby, the companions find some tracks in a soft patch 
of ground. Judging from the tracks, they are hunting a 
dozen or more Orcs, and some of the Orcs were carrying 
a very heavy burden. 
• 
As the company examine the tracks, call for a DC 10 
Wisdom (Perception) check. Anyone who succeeds 
notices an eerie glow in the eyes of the Orc-corpse. The 
characters are being watched by the Gibbet King! If 
anyone reacts, the spirit departs, slithering out of the 
corpse and then vanishing into the north like a shadow.
Witherfinger
On the fifth day of travel into the Waste, the company 
come upon a stagnant pool of brown water. By the side of 
the pool is a figure. At first, it looks like a spindly, leafless 
tree covered in dead moss and ivy, but as they draw closer, 
they realise that it is an immensely old woman. 
Her skin is brown and wrinkled, and her thin body is 
hunched over with a lifetime’s work. Her eyes are old and 
sad and utterly mad. She stands with her feet immersed 
in the brown water, and sways gently back and forth, 
sometimes trailing her thin fingertips in the pool. She does 
not move while speaking with the company.
This strange creature calls herself Witherfinger. Whether 
she is human, Elf or something stranger, it is impossible 
to say. What is certain is that Witherfinger has a terrible 
fear of Orcs and fire, a legacy of some ancient tragedy, 
and so she dwells in the Waste where there is no-one to 
threaten her. She roams the land endlessly with only her 
own thoughts and memories for company.
Playing Witherfinger
Witherfinger is a mystery in Middle-earth. She 
might be an incredibly old Entwife, or an incarnate 
spirit, or just a crazed old hermit. She is nervous 
and fearful, and is utterly terrified of Orcs and the 
shadow. She lives in the Waste to hide from these 
enemies, and worries that the presence of the company 
may draw the enemy to her. At the same time, she 
seldom has the opportunity to speak to anyone, and 
thus she cannot resist talking to them. Only listen to 
half of what the company say. Pay more attention 
to the hobbit’s shiny buttons than the elf’s tales of 
impending doom. If someone mentions Orcs, panic! 
Mutter to yourself. Stand with your legs straight 
together, and sway back and forth when talking. 
Motivation
Witherfinger is nervous, and fearful of strangers, but she’s 
also terribly lonely. 
Expectations
+2: Elves woke us up, long ago. (if there is an Elf or any 
Elf-friends in the company)
+1: A little kindness for an old woman. (If the company 
are especially gentle and polite to her)
-1: I don’t like hasty words. (If rushed or questioned 
forcefully)
-2: Strangers bring trouble. (If threatened)
4

--- PAGE 131 ---
131
Introduction
 “I am... well, I had a name once. It went away, like all the 
rest. Hmm. Call me Witherfinger. Come close, child, let 
me smell you and touch you.” 
She beckons the company closer with her long black 
fingernails. Witherfinger wants to know what the company 
are doing here, who they are and, most importantly, she 
wants to make sure they are not Orcs. They could be 
Orcs, after all. They may look like Free Folk, but Orcs are 
tricky – maybe they are Orcs who peeled the faces off their 
victims and are now using them as masks! She wants the 
company to come close enough for her to touch them.
If everyone refuses, then Witherfinger assumes they are 
Orcs and panics – see Witherfinger’s Fear, below. If a 
companion submits, then Witherfinger runs her withered 
fingers over the companion’s face. It is a disconcerting 
experience – her fingers are covered with wispy hairs 
or tendrils or worms that wriggle and writhe, and force 
their way into the companion’s ears, nose and mouth. 
The hero must make a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw to 
remain calm. Once satisfied that this hero is not an Orc, 
she agrees to talk to the company.
Interaction
Witherfinger looks askance towards all strangers; the 
DC for interactions with her is DC 14, or DC 16 if the 
character(s) she touched failed their saving throws. 
For her part, Witherfinger wants to know who the 
company are and what they are doing. She knows little 
of the ‘southlands’, as she refers to everything south of 
the Lonely Mountain; Smaug’s conquest of the Mountain 
counts as recent news to her, let alone the Dragon’s death. 
If the company mention Orcs, she shivers and says:
“Orcs! You brought Orcs here! I saw them! Orcs are bad, 
bad, awful things. Don’t bring Orcs here! No Orcs here!’
The company must immediately calm her with a DC 10 
Charisma (Persuasion) check, otherwise, the encounter 
comes to an abrupt end as Witherfinger panics. If they 
calm her, they can question her about the Orcs she saw.
“They passed by here a few days ago. I hid. I’m very clever 
at hiding. I hid long ago, long ago, in a place where no-one 
would ever find me. I saw them, and they did not see me. 
I... what was the question again, dearie? Oh yes, what I 
saw, I saw. Orcs! I saw Orcs, such Orcs as I have not seen 
in an age. They were going north towards the mountains. 
They were carrying a heavy chain. And I could smell dark 
magic upon it.”
To convince Witherfinger to help them, the companions 
may persuade her they are ready for the challenges, or 
beg for her help. Alternatively, they can address her fears 
by telling her that there is now peace and friendship 
between the Free Folk of the North, how the Bardings and 
Woodsmen are allied with the Elves and Dwarves, how 
there is a King under the Mountain again and a King 
in Dale, and that the Orcs will be defeated by their new 
alliance. If asked about the chain, she knows little. She 
could tell it was evil, and powerful. If asked for directions, 
Witherfinger shudders again. 
“The Orcs went north, yes, but that way leads into a 
dangerous land, where no one in their right mind should 
go! Huge Snow-Trolls prowl there, fighting and eating 
each other! Snow-Trolls are horrible, dangerous things, 
creatures made by the Enemy in the Elder Days! They’ll eat 
you in two bites, and come after me for dessert. No, it is 
much safer for you to stay here and hide with me.”
Conclusion
Make a Final Audience Check using Persuasion or 
Riddle. Compare to the results below.
Failure: Witherfinger is easily scared, and by the end of 
the audience she starts fearing she should have not spoken 
to these foreigners. A sudden gust of wind throws dust in 
the eyes of the companions, blinding them for an instant: 
when they recover, Witherfinger is nowhere to be seen.
0-2: Witherfinger fears for the safety of the companions. 
She teaches them how to avoid attracting the unwanted 
attention of the Snow-Trolls. The creatures slumber during 
most of the day, but they can be awoken by the smell of 
prey. Each Troll sleeps in a different cave inside a deep 
valley. If you stay downwind of the caves’ entrances, 
and avoid getting too close, you can creep past the Trolls 
without waking them. Tread softly! 
3+: As above, but Witherfinger adds an additional 
warning; once the companions climb the Grey Mountains 
The Watch on the Heath

--- PAGE 132 ---
Wilderland Adventures
132
and look out over the Withered Heath, they should light 
no fire and carry no gold! Flame and treasure may both 
draw dragons down upon unwary travellers. All that is 
bright is death in the Withered Heath.
Witherfinger bids the company farewell. If the company 
return to the brown pool later, there is no sign of her.
Witherfinger’s Fear
If the company attack Witherfinger, or if they alarm 
her, then she calls up a windstorm that whips dust 
and small stones into the company’s eyes. Everyone 
in the company takes 1d6 damage and is Blinded for 
a moment. When they can see again, Witherfinger is 
gone.
Worse, from that moment on, it is as though the 
whole of the Waste turns against the company. Stones 
work their way into boots, the weather switches from 
torrential rain to howling wind and back again, and 
every path seems to twist and double back on itself. 
The characters are at Disadvantage on all rolls for the 
rest of the journey.
– Part Three – 
The Grey Mountains
Once the company have crossed the Waste, they have 
another day or so of slow travel across the foothills of the 
Grey Mountains. The terrain climbs steadily, as all the 
paths wind among the peaks and mountain tops.
• 
To find the peak of Zirakinbar and climb it the 
company must travel for ten miles on broken paths 
and dangerous terrain. 
Corruption Tests
While travelling toward Zirakinbar, the companions can 
sometimes espy the Withered Heath through gaps in the 
mountains. The heath was once a green valley, but it was 
despoiled by the great worms long ago, and now it is a 
dead land. Its surface is scorched black, and the terrain 
itself has been rent for centuries by the claws of fighting 
dragons. There are always great smoky clouds above the 
Heath, and the companions cannot shake the impression 
that there is something moving within the clouds. There 
is a smell of ash on the wind. This region ranks as a Dark 
Land, and the companions must make a DC 15 Wisdom 
saving throw twice a day, gaining a point of Shadow on 
a failure. See page 181 of the Adventures in Middle-earth 
Player’s Guide for more information.
The Snow-Trolls
On their way to the watchtower the company enters a 
deep, shadowy gorge, with high rock walls punctuated by 
openings. This gully is the lair of the Snow-Trolls, and each 
opening is a cave that might contain one of them. Luckily 
for the company, there are no storms brewing, and the 
Snow-Trolls are asleep in their caves (see the description 
of Snow-Trolls below).  
Scent of Prey
To navigate around the sleeping Snow-Trolls, the company 
need to stay downwind of their caves and to tread lightly. 
Normally, that would be easy enough – but inside the gorge 
the direction of the wind is not easy to divine, and every 
sound echoes against the sheer surface of the gully walls
.
• 
Crossing the gorge without waking a Troll requires 
three DC 10 Dexterity (Stealth) checks from each 
companion. Every round represents crossing in front 
of the mouth of a cave. If one hero fails a test, then the 
Troll inside the cave merely stirs and does not awaken. 
Two failures in the same round– or one failure with a 
natural 1 awakens a Troll.
The Snow-Troll Wakes
If the company are unlucky enough to wake a sleeping 
Snow-Troll, then they are sent sprawling as the monster 
emerges from the cave charging and roaring, stones 
tumbling from the mouth cave like an avalanche. A Stone-
Troll is a ferocious beast, ten feet tall, entirely covered by 
shaggy white hair and with a head the size of a barrel.
When fighting the Troll, there are two added dangers.
• 
The path used by the company is narrow and 
steep: each round, one character in the group is at 
Disadvantage when attacking. The players may choose 
2

--- PAGE 133 ---
133
which character is inconvenienced at the start of each 
round, with the proviso that no character can be 
chosen two rounds in a row.
• 
There are other sleeping Snow-Trolls in the vicinity. 
If the company flee in the wrong direction, or if the 
fight disturbs a sleeping Troll, then they may awaken 
another one.
Snow-Trolls
He would go out by himself, clad in white, and stalk like a 
snow-troll into the camps of his enemies, and slay many men 
with his hands. 
Snow-Trolls are smaller than many of their brethren, but 
their ferocity makes up for the difference in size. They are 
usually found in caves, where they slumber waiting for 
a snowstorm to arrive. When the wind blows and snow 
reduces the visibility to mere inches, they go out to hunt 
in great numbers. Despite their size, Snow-Trolls are silent 
hunters, capable of creeping upon their prey and catching 
them completely by surprise. 
Snow-Troll
Large Giant (Troll-kind)
STR 
18 (+4)
DEX 
12 (+1)
CON 
20 (+5)
INT 
7 (-2)
WIS 
9 (-1)
CHA 
7 (-2)
Armour Class 16 (natural armour) 
Hit Points 84 (8d10+40)
Speed 30 ft
Skills Perception +2, Stealth +4, Survival +2
Senses passive Perception 12
Languages Orkish
Challenge 5 (1,800 XP)
Camouflage. Snow-trolls have Advantage on all Stealth 
checks in snowy terrain.
Actions
Multiattack. The Snow-troll makes three attacks: one 
bite and two with its claws.
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 9 (2d4+4) slashing damage. 
Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 11 (2d6+4) slashing damage.
– Part Four – 
Zirakinbar
Once past the gorge of the Snow-Trolls, the company 
emerges in sight of the watchtower. There it stands, carved 
by the Dwarves out of the living rock, atop the peak of 
Zirakinbar. A narrow mountain road leads up to the main 
gate of the watchtower. As the company approaches, they 
see the many empty windows of the tower. Smoke issues 
from the upper levels. The watchtower is occupied, and 
there is a risk the company is being observed. 
• 
The company must immediately make DC 10 
Dexterity saving throws to take cover before the Orcs 
spot them. If successful, the company can sneak up 
on the watchtower. Otherwise, the enemy knows they 
are there.
As soon as the companions begin to move towards the 
tower they find their way blocked by the shade of a Man 
who beckons them to stop.
The Watch on the Heath
1

--- PAGE 134 ---
Wilderland Adventures
134
The Old Master
The shade is that of a middle-aged Northman, dressed 
in tatters. He stands motionless, but his clothes move 
as if touched by intangible winds. Heroes from the local 
area (Bardings, Men of the Lake, Dwarves of Erebor) will 
recognise the apparition as the old Master of Lake-town, 
who many years ago fell prey to the Dragon-sickness 
and fled from Esgaroth with the city’s share of the gold 
of Smaug, only to die in the Waste deserted by his 
accomplices. His visage is a mask of sadness and distress 
- if the companions address him, the old Master speaks.
“They took my treasure, my share of gold thrice-cursed. 
They brought it all here, my coins, my cups, my strings of 
rings. Thrice-cursed, I call it. First, it made the Dwarves 
greedy and drew their doom upon their heads. Then, it 
consumed Smaug the Dreadful and made him weak. 
Finally, it made me blind to the joys of life, and turned me 
into an oath-breaker.”
“Now my graven silver and carven gold will be offered 
to the plunderer, the slithering death. A precious lure to 
call him, an iron trap to chain him, and then unleash him 
upon the North. My betrayal is complete. I already feel his 
cold breath blowing from the North. Here he comes!”
With his last words, the shade raises an emaciated arm 
and points a finger towards the Withered Heath - there, 
a faint plume of dust can now be seen. Judging from the 
distance, whatever is causing the disturbance must be 
very large, and it is advancing at great speed. Then, the 
ghost of the old Master disappears.
What should the Companions Do?
The next two parts of the adventure aren’t necessarily 
presented in chronological order. The first, Part Five: 
The Scourge of the North, details the great Cold-drake 
Raenar and how the company may deal with him. The 
following section, Part Six: The Watchtower, concerns 
what is inside the tower and the plans of the Gibbet 
King. Since the two parts are closely connected, the 
Loremaster should be familiar with the contents of 
both sections, and be prepared to inter-mingle them 
depending on the choices of the players.
– Part Five –
 The Scourge of the North
When there was a Dragon under the Lonely Mountain, 
Gandalf the Grey feared that the Dark Lord could use 
Smaug the Dreadful as a weapon, and send him to burn 
the North in wrath. Bard the Bowman put that fear to rest, 
but there are still Dragons in the North...
A Forgotten Threat
Far off in the Withered Heath, a great Cold-drake slept. 
More than three hundred years ago he plagued the Grey 
Mountains, killing and stealing from the Dwarves who 
lived there. They called him Raenar, the Plunderer, for he 
had smashed the gates of many halls since the reign of 
Náin the Second. In 2589 he killed King Dáin the First, 
together with Frór his second son, but was grievously hurt 
in the battle. Soon after that, he abandoned the region. 
But Raenar didn’t die of his wounds. He settled in a frozen 
cave to heal, and slowly fell into a slumber. His sleep would 
have lasted an age or more, if something didn’t wake him 
up. His long sleep has diminished him in size and strength, 
but it hasn’t robbed him of his wicked cunning or of his 
ability to catch the scent of gold and precious things...
A Precious Lure, an Iron Trap
Inside the watchtower, the Gibbet King has built a huge 
bonfire in the middle of the chamber at one of the topmost 
floors; he has also reopened the furnaces of the fortress, 
and he is melting the gold of the Master of Esgaroth. The 
firelight and smoke has been pouring out of the eight 
windows of Zirakinbar for days now, to be carried by the 
winds towards the Withered Heath. It didn’t take long for 
Raenar to catch the scent of molten gold, and he soon 
started to swiftly travel south... 
With the Cold-drake unable to resist the scent of gold, the 
Gibbet King has started to tap into the baleful power of the 
Chain of Thangorodrim to enslave the monster to his will: 
by the time Raenar arrives at Zirakinbar, he will be fully 
under the spell of the Chain, ready to be attached to it and 
enslaved to the Gibbet King’s will.
A Dangerous Conversation
If the company has figured out the plot of the Gibbet 
King, they might want to face Raenar, to warn him of the 
3
6

--- PAGE 135 ---
135
plans of the spirit. Hopefully, he won’t like the prospect 
of slavery and will either return to his frozen lair, or 
even resolve to help the company to destroy the Gibbet 
King as a punishment for his attempted treachery. But 
it takes a lot of courage to face a living Dragon, and 
the companions will understandably be very uncertain 
about the prospect!
• 
It’s possible to have an audience with a dragon: after 
all, the famous Bilbo Baggins had a nice conversation 
with Smaug – at least before the dragon tried to burn 
him! Naturally, the success of the task will depend on 
how the conversation is led, and who will be doing the 
talking: good sense should suggest they avoid sending 
forward a Dwarf or an Elf spokesman!
A Date with Death
To approach Raenar, the companions must head down the 
northward slopes of the mountains towards the Withered 
Heath. The Great Worm advances swiftly, and they see 
the dust cloud he raises in his march getting bigger and 
bigger, until they meet while still upon the foothills of the 
Grey Mountains. The Cold-drake’s arrival is heralded by 
an almost overpowering stench.Raenar is a terrifying 
sight, a vast silver-grey serpent, wingless, with a huge 
head set upon a thick neck. He advances walking on four 
short and robust legs, sometimes slithering on his slime-
covered belly. From his beak-like muzzle and powerful, 
saw-toothed jaw emerge wisps of venomous cold vapours. 
Even reduced in size by centuries of slumber, Raenar is 
one of the greatest calamities that might befall the North, 
should his wrath be unleashed upon it. 
If the companions do not hide from the Cold-drake, Raenar 
sees them from afar, and slows his advance, curious to 
discover what this is about. If they hide, he stops when 
close, and hails them: his keen sense of smell has revealed 
their presence from miles away...
Motivation
Raenar values little apart from murder, gold and precious 
stones, but he feels that something is not right, and he 
wants to discover what it is. 
Expectations
+2: Flattery will get you eaten last.
+2: That flattery is especially obsequious. Keep talking.
+1: Riddles amuse me.
+1: Is that a smell I do not know? (if there is a Hobbit or 
something equally strange to Raenar in the party)
+1: Forewarned is forearmed (if they tell him of the 
Chain)
-1: Thieves are tricksters. (If he suspects the company are 
trying to stall or fool him)
-2: Do not doubt my will! (Raenar is irritated if anyone 
claims he’s under the influence of the Chain already)
-4: I! AM! RAENAR! (if anyone implies that he is anything 
less than the mightiest dragon in this age of the world)
Introduction
Raenar is as vulnerable to flattery as any of his kin. 
Moreover, his latest deeds and his sleep have made him 
eager for a good duel of wits - the Dwarves he attacked 
before he retreated north weren’t usually keen on making 
conversation! If the company chooses a Dwarf or an Elf 
Playing Raenar 
Dragons are among the most powerful creatures to walk upon Middle-earth. This notion once made you impetuous 
and proud, even by the standards of dragons. But the axe of Dáin I and the rune-scored sword of his son Frór have 
taught you that you are not invincible. Moreover, during your rest in the frozen north you have seen the fall of 
Smaug in your dragon-dreams. You are not sure it really happened, but to exercise some caution in the presence of 
keen weapons will do no harm, especially until you’ll be properly fed and grown to full size once again - and when 
that day comes, the Scourge of the North will be back! 
Finally, there is something you secretly hold precious above all else, even your life, and that is freedom. In distant 
ages you were born in thralldom, and long suffered the whip of your Master. That will never happen again, no 
matter the cost...
The Watch on the Heath

--- PAGE 136 ---
Wilderland Adventures
136
as their spokesman, Raenar will try to kill the chosen 
representative right away, then resume the conversation 
where it was interrupted. This introduction requires a DC 
20 Intelligence (Traditions) check. Dragons view everyone 
other than Elves and Dwarves as Askance at best.
For his part, Raenar humbly presents himself as the 
greatest of all Cold-drakes, the Dragon-king, the plunderer 
of a hundred Dwarf-halls, the slayer of Kings, the Great 
Worm of the Frozen Waste, the Scourge of the North, and 
so on.
Interaction
The companions now face the difficult prospect of 
convincing a dragon not to kill them, and possibly to help 
them. Luckily for them, Raenar has only awoken recently 
and feels weak, and he has also known too many dragons 
who died because they underestimated the strength of 
armed and armoured warriors...
Each of the following entries could raise the modifier for 
the Final Audience Check or lower it. As the Loremaster, 
it is up to you to judge if the heroes have answered the 
dragon politely enough but not angered him with any 
unfortunate truths.
There are a number of clues that the companions can pick 
up to pursue their cause.
Spellbound
Heroes who have learned the Gibbet King’s plans 
might realise that the dragon is being dragged forward 
against his will. Raenar does not realize it though, so 
the companions need to convince him that he is being 
summoned by sorcery.
Former Slave
Raenar wears an iron-banded collar around his powerful 
neck. Was he a slave before? The companions could fire 
up his anger against the treasonous spirit who is trying to 
put shackles on him again. 
Smaug is Dead
The company can tell Raenar that Smaug has been killed. 
They do not need to roll to convince Raenar this time - inside 
himself he knows it’s true. What the companions have to 
decide is to what end they want to use the information. 
Do they want to daunt Raenar, telling him that in Dale now 
sits a Dragonslayer? Or do they want to flatter him, telling 
that now he is the Chiefest and Greatest of Calamities? 
Conclusions
Make a Final Audience Check and compare the results to 
the entries below:
Failure: The dragon decides that the company are 
plotting against him. He might attack them, or decide that 
they’re just trying to trick him into leaving the treasure of 
the watchtower for them to take. Furious, he rushes past 
them – unless the characters hurry, Raenar will get to the 
tower before they do, and they will have only moments to 
stop him from falling under the spell of the Gibbet King. 
0-1: The great Cold-drake has been convinced that 
something is suspicious about this treasure he smells in 
the air, but he can’t be bothered with helping the company 
- he doesn’t feel confident enough, and turns his tail and 
heads north, saying that one day he will return. The 
company has to deal with the Gibbet King on their own. 
2-4: Raenar hears what the companions say, but he 
cannot believe someone will be able to subjugate him. He 
commands the companions to return to the watchtower, 
promising that he will take the Orcs and the spirit by 
surprise. He secretly intends to kill everyone once there, 
including the heroes, but he will fall under the Gibbet 
King’s spell if the companions do not prevent it (see The 
Chain of Thangorodrim, at page 95).
5+: The Cold-drake sees the wisdom in the words of the 
companions. He accepts this strange alliance, but with his 
conditions: the companions will return to the watchtower 
alone, and he will come later to take the spirit by surprise. 
Once there, he will attack the spirit who intends to enslave 
him before it can work its sorcery upon him, and take the 
tower as his new lair and the treasure of the Master of 
Esgaroth as his hoard.
Raenar the great Cold-drake
Raenar is a monster bred in another age of the world. 
Once grown back to full stature, there will be no match for 
his strength in the North, now that Smaug is dead.

--- PAGE 137 ---
137
Raenar
Huge dragon (Venerable Cold-drake)
STR 
24 (+7)
DEX 
18 (+4)
CON 
20 (+5)
INT 
14 (+2)
WIS 
13 (+1)
CHA 
18 (+4)
Armour Class 21 (natural armour)
Hit Points 241 (21d12+105)
Speed 30 ft
Saving Throws Con +10, Int +7, Wis +6
Skills History +7, Intimidation +9, Perception +6
Senses darkvision 60 ft, passive Perception 16
Languages Westron, Black Speech, Sindarin
Challenge 14 (11,500 XP)
Resistance (1/day) If the dragon fails a saving throw, it 
can choose to succeed instead.
Weak Spot: Raenar’s belly is vulnerable. If a foe strikes 
from below, that attacker gains Advantage on attacks 
against the dragon.
Horrible Strength. If Raenar makes a successful melee 
attack, he may use his bonus action to cause 7 additional 
damage of the same type.
Weak Spot. If Raenar uses a special ability that uses an 
action (Mesmerise, Multiattack, Poison Blast), any heroes 
that are within reach may use their reaction to make a single 
melee attack. For this attack only, Raenar is considered 
vulnerable to Piercing, Slashing and Bludgeoning damage.
Actions
Multiattack. Raenar makes two attacks biting once and 
then either rending or using his tail attack.
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 20 (3d8+7) piercing damage.
Rend. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 5 ft, one 
target. Hit: 17 (3d6+7) slashing damage.
Tail-Lash. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 10 ft, 
one target. Hit: 14 (3d4+7) bludgeoning damage and the 
target is knocked Prone.
Mesmerise. Raenar may use his action and target one 
creature, who must make a DC 18 Wisdom saving throw. 
On a failed save, the target becomes Charmed until 
Raenar leaves the area or attacks the Charmed creature.
Poison Blast (Recharge 5-6).  As an action, Raenar 
exhales poisonous bile in a 40 ft cone. Each creature in 
that area must make a DC 18 Dexterity saving throw, 
taking 30 (4d4+20) poison damage and becoming 
Poisoned for 2d4 rounds on a failed saving throw. A 
successful saving throw reduces the damage by half, and 
the target is Poisoned for only 1d4 rounds
Reaction
Draconic Resistance (Recharge 6). Dragons are 
notoriously tough and free-willed. Raenar may activate 
this ability as a reaction to failing a saving throw. He 
automatically succeeds at the saving throw instead.
- Part Six - 
The Watchtower
The watchtower is divided into four levels, carved into the 
living rock of Zirakinbar. When the company arrives, the 
Gibbet King is on the third level, bent on using the Chain 
of Thangorodrim to enslave the dragon. His servants are 
mostly on the second level, ready to attack anyone who 
dares disturb their master. 
• 
If the company head straight to the main door, then 
they walk into a fight (see The Battle of the Great Hall 
below). A better alternative is to enter the fortress by 
stealth, either by the hidden side door or by climbing 
up the side of the mountain.
Climbing the Mountain
Climbing the sides of Zirakinbar requires a Strength 
(Athletics) check. They can either make two tests at DC 
10 if they take their time, or one test at DC 15 if they climb 
in haste. 
Exploring the Watchtower
If the companions enter the watchtower stealthily they 
can explore it. Moving silently inside the fortress requires 
Dexterity (Stealth) checks, with the DC set by the area, 
see the entries overleaf.
The Watch on the Heath
2
3

--- PAGE 138 ---
Wilderland Adventures
138
The Watchtower
1. The Road (DC 10): This road zig-zags up the mountain 
to the main gate. Parts of the road are badly damaged, but 
the mountain keep itself is untouched.
2. Main Gate (DC 10): Two great doors of stone stand 
proud, engraved with runes of defiance and watchfulness. 
The doors swing open when touched if they are unlocked, 
but could not be pushed open by a dragon if locked. The 
doors are unlocked, and one is ajar. 
3. Secret Entrance (DC 10): This is a side portal, disguised 
using dwarven artistry so it looks just like a rock face. The 
outline of the door can only be seen in a mirror or some 
other reflection. To open the door, a Dwarf must knock 
three times with a hammer or axe-head. The secret entrance 
opens into a narrow tunnel that leads to the cellars. 
4. Guardrooms (DC 15): Orcs lurk in these rooms. Each 
guardroom contains from 2 to 7 Orcs. If the company’s 
presence is known, then the Orcs are alert and patrolling 
nearby rooms, or getting ready to attack. If the company 
have managed to approach the watchtower without being 
spotted, however, then the Orcs are mostly lazing around, 
sleeping or grumbling about being dragged here to the 
end of the world by ‘Bloodybones’.
5. Great Hall (DC 20): This hall was made using 
cunning stonework. The ceiling arches so high up that 
the roof is lost in shadow. Hidden vents in the floor and 
1
2
3
4
4
4
4
5
6
8
9
10
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Level 4
The Watchtower

--- PAGE 139 ---
139
walls connect to furnaces in the cellars, so that the hall 
was once warm and welcoming even when the blizzards 
howled on the mountain outside. Most of the furnaces 
are dark and dead now, and the hall is icy cold. There 
is a massive central platform where the Dwarves met in 
council, a stone throne upon it. Around the edge of the 
hall are benches, nooks for study and craft, and a kitchen.
Directly over the entrance is a huge block of stone 
suspended by chains. The Dwarves put this in place to 
block the entrance should the main gates ever be breached. 
A huge wheel next to the entrance corridor controls the 
raising and lowering of the block. If the wheel is allowed to 
spin freely, the block falls and crushes anyone or anything 
beneath it. The company can use this trap in their fight if 
they spot it, or learned of its existence by consulting the 
dwarven records.
The Gibbet King ordered his defenders to make their stand 
here. A huge Troll lurks in the shadows. There are Goblin 
Archers crawling in the darkness overhead. Meanwhile, 
the Orcs in the two adjoining guardrooms are ready to 
rush out and join the fray once battle begins. See The 
Battle of the Great Hall. 
6. Cellars (DC 15): The old cellars are lightless and 
abandoned. Most of these rooms were old store-rooms; 
others were furnaces used to heat the halls above. Two 
of these have been opened and are being used to melt the 
gold of the Master of Esgaroth. Two trusted servants of 
the Gibbet King have been set to the task: a Messenger of 
Lugbúrz and a lowly Snaga Tracker.
7. Empty Chambers (DC 10): These rooms were once 
inhabited by Dwarves, but no longer. Most are entirely 
empty; others contain the shattered remains of furniture 
and other debris. They have long since been picked bare 
of any treasure or useful items. 
8. Secret Vault (DC 10): The entrance to this vault is 
cleverly concealed. A trap door opening onto steps leading 
downward can be found with a DC 20 Intelligence 
(Investigation) check, unless the searcher is a Dwarf or 
the heroes know about the vault, in which case it is DC 10.
• 
The vault contains the part of the treasure of the Master 
of Esgaroth that is not being burned in the furnaces: 
gemstones, necklaces, carved idols, worth hundreds 
of gold pieces all told. Getting this hoard across the 
wastes and back to Erebor may prove tricky.
9. Chamber of Winds (DC 25): This chamber is the heart 
of the watchtower. Eight portals look out on the mountains 
from this vantage point. From here, a watcher can look north 
into the Withered Heath. Looking south, the observer can 
see the sunlight gleaming off the snowy peak of the Lonely 
Mountain on the horizon. East and west, the mountain 
chain stretches off into the distance. There is a door half-
way along each tunnel, so the eyes of the watchtower can 
be closed in a particular direction to shelter observers from 
The Watch on the Heath

--- PAGE 140 ---
Wilderland Adventures
140
the wind. The Dwarves wrought these doors and tunnels in 
such a way that they can be left partially open. When the 
wind blows in the right way, and the correct combination 
of doors are open or half-open, then the whole chamber 
resonates with the howling of the wind, becoming a mighty 
musical instrument. The peak of Zirakinbar sings. 
10. Raven’s Perch (DC 10): The raven’s perch is a small 
room at the very top of the watchtower. Once, a colony of 
ravens of the mountain lived here, and carried messages 
between the outpost and Erebor. They are gone now. There 
is a trapdoor in the floor of the perch that looks down on 
the Chamber of Winds below. 
The Howl of the Mountain 
The Chamber of Winds holds a deadly secret – the 
Dwarves calculated long ago that the right combination 
of winds could cause the whole watchtower to resonate, 
creating a thunderous dirge so loud that it would crush 
the skull of anyone in the chamber. Left for long 
enough, it could even cause the very walls to crack and 
break. Creating the Howl of the Mountain requires the 
wind to blow from the North, and for the companions 
to close all the doors except the south, north and north-
east doors. If this is done, then the Howl begins to 
build. It takes six rounds of combat for the noise to 
reach a dangerous intensity. After this, anyone in the 
Chamber of Winds takes 2d8 thunder damage each 
round. Any character who suffers more than 20 points 
of damage in this fashion is permanently deafened.
The Battle of the Great Hall
If the company dare defy the defences of the enemy, they 
will find that their forces in this chamber are considerable. 
The main danger is the Cave-Troll lurking on the far side of 
the room, but there are also Goblin Archers hiding in the 
ceiling — twice as many as the number of heroes. 
Entering the Hall
When the company enter the hall, spotting the Cave-
Troll requires a passive Perception score of 14 or higher. 
Otherwise, the company only realise they are not alone 
when the Troll attacks. 
The Battle Begins
The troll begins the fight by leaping onto the middle 
platform, grabbing the throne, and throwing it at the 
company. This is an improvised attack: +5 to hit, range 
20 ft., two adjacent targets. Hit: 13 (2d10+2) bludgeoning 
damage. At the same time, the Goblins on the ceiling start 
loosing arrows at the company, while the Orcs in the side 
rooms (area 4) will join the battle next round. The Orcs try 
to surround the company, blocking their retreat down the 
tunnel to the main doors. 
Escape but No Retreat
While the company cannot flee out the main gate if the 
tunnel is blocked by Orcs (or by the stone block), there 
are other ways out of the chamber. A character could flee 
up or down the stairs, or jump into one of the heating 
vents and tumble down to the old furnace in the cellars 
below.
Dropping the Stone Block
To use the stone block trap, the company must:
• 
Know about the trap: If the company read the 
dwarven records at Erebor, they may know about this 
trap. Otherwise, any character looking around the 
hall will notice the block of stone hanging from the 
ceiling, and the control wheel can easily be found by a 
character who goes looking for it.
• 
Move their enemies under the block: This can be 
done by shoving or grappling their foes, or by clever 
footwork.
• 
Drop the block: A successful DC 15 Strength 
(Athletics) check unlocks the wheel. Alternatively, a 
character can cut the chain with a weapon attack and 
spending Inspiration. 
• 
Get out of the way: Any companions under the block 
must make DC 14 Dexterity saving throws to dodge 
out of the way. Anyone under the block is crushed to 
death when it falls.
Entering the Chamber of Winds
The first thing the companions see if they enter the 
Chamber of Winds is the blazing bonfire. Next to the 
bonfire, in a cage, stands another mummified corpse like

--- PAGE 141 ---
141
the ones they saw at Dwimmerhorn and at the Crossings 
of Celduin – another mouthpiece for the Gibbet King. 
The Gibbet King is accompanied by five Black Uruks of 
Mordor, his bodyguards of choice; two of them carry the 
heavy weight of the Chain of Thangorodrim, and cannot 
join the fray.
The Last Debate
Once the company enter the Chamber of Winds and the 
spirit detects them, he mocks them and bids them to lay 
down their weapons.
“This is the hour of my triumph. In ages past, the Dragons 
were weapons of terror, wrought by the Lord of Middle-
earth to enslave all the Mortal races. Now, this weapon 
will once again be in the right hands. No sword nor 
shield can withstand the fury of the Great Worm! Lay 
down your weapons and I shall grant you a quick death. 
Refuse, and your souls will be my playthings until the 
ending of the world!”
Assuming the company do not surrender, then battle is 
joined. The Gibbet King orders the Black Uruks to engage 
the company. The two Uruks holding the chain wait in 
reserve, and only join the fight if the company are clearly 
winning the battle. 
Battling the Orcs
The Orcs try to drive the companions away from the 
Gibbet King, ideally by forcing them down one of the side 
tunnels towards another window. 
Sorcery
The Gibbet King does not attack physically, but every round 
he targets a companion, either with Dreadful Spells or 
Visions of Torment, to open them to the attack of his Black 
Uruk bodyguards. He uses his paralysing spell on the most 
dangerous companions. He can only cast spells before the 
Dragon arrives – if Raenar is present, the Gibbet King must 
bend his will towards controlling the drake, and cannot 
continue to weave his sorcery against the company. 
Reinforcements
More Orcs may arrive from the lower levels of the 
watchtower during the fight, especially if the company 
avoided the battle in the great hall below. 
The Chain of Thangorodrim
If the company didn’t warn Raenar of the plans of the 
Gibbet King, the Dragon arrives on Zirakinbar not 
expecting a trap. If this happens, the spirit successfully 
bewilders the Great Worm long enough for the remaining 
Uruks to carry the Chain forward and place it around 
Raenar’s neck. To keep the Dragon quiescent, the Gibbet 
King must turn all his power towards the dragon, and thus 
cannot target the companions.
• 
The company must stop the Orcs from placing the 
chain on the Dragon. If they fail to do so, then the 
Gibbet King gains complete control over Raenar. The 
Gibbet King’s first command is to order the Cold-
drake to destroy the companions. With no way to stop 
the Gibbet King or to defeat the dragon, the company 
are likely doomed.
If the company slay the Orcs, then they have a chance to 
defeat the Gibbet King once and for all before more Orcs 
arrive from the lower halls. 
Raenar
When he arrives, the Dragon creeps upon the mountain 
outpost. The company catch a whiff of his foul stench 
carried by the wind. Suddenly, they hear a roar that 
is louder than thunder, louder than an earthquake. 
Raenar climbs the north face and scrabbles at the 
windows, his claws ripping chunks of stone asunder as 
a man might tear paper. What the Cold-drake will 
try to do depends on whether the company encountered 
him or not.
The Power of a Dragon
The spirit that animates Raenar can be considered 
to be at least as powerful as the Gibbet King. If the 
Great Worm were to breathe his poison upon the Gibbet 
King, it would not only dissolve the bones and melt the 
cage bars, but it could also send the spirit into oblivion, 
consuming away so much of the King’s spiritual essence 
as to reduce it to a bodiless, wordless spirit of hate. The 
dragon attempts to annihilate the Gibbet King only if 
the companions were able to inflame the Dragon’s fear 
of being enslaved once again.
The Watch on the Heath
6

--- PAGE 142 ---
Wilderland Adventures
142
Defeating the Gibbet King
As the Gibbet King is an incorporeal spirit, the company 
cannot attack him directly. Barring the unexpected help 
of Raenar (see the The Power of a Dragon sidebar on the 
previous page), there are two main ways that the company 
can defeat him.
Ruining His Plans
Stopping the Gibbet King from enslaving the great Cold-
drake is enough to temporarily defeat the spirit. The 
Dwimmerhorn is empty, his Orc-host was destroyed by 
the army of Dale, and now the Chain of Thangorodrim 
has proven useless. 
The Gibbet King may still be abroad in the world, but his 
power base is depleted. The spirit may return to trouble 
the Free Peoples once again in the future, but the company 
have ruined his plans, and it will take him many years to 
rebuild.
Using the Chain of Thangorodrim
The Chain of Thangorodrim enslaves the will of whoever 
wears it, making them subservient to the Gibbet King. If the 
companions place the chain upon the Gibbet King, they 
create an endless loop. The spirit will be trapped within 
the confines of the chain, beyond all darkness, unable to 
give itself commands, endlessly waiting for orders from its 
own dead lips. 
- Epilogue - 
A Renewed Spring of Joy
With the Gibbet King defeated, the company can start 
on the long journey back to Erebor. If they didn’t defeat 
Raenar too, the Cold-drake takes the watchtower as his 
lair, and the dragon may prove to be a threat to the Lonely 
Mountain in years to come. For the moment, the shadow 
has been driven back once more, and the company have 
won a few years of peace through their brave deeds. Each 
hero is rewarded with 2000 XP for the victory.
• 
King Dáin is generous once he hears of the company’s 
deeds, and rewards them each with one Dwarven-
crafted Legendary item each (each item has a single 
Enchanted Quality). He also gives them a cask of 
silver and gold – enough coin to last several years, 
unless the companions squander it. A feast is held in 
the company’s honour in Dale, and their names are 
spoken of with respect throughout Wilderland.
Fellowship Phase
The year after the defeat of the Gibbet King is a prosperous 
one. The company may open Dale or Erebor as a sanctuary, 
and can easily win the patronage of Dáin or Bard should 
they wish. Any companions who wish to settle in Dale 
will be given land by King Bard, who knows the value of 
having trusty allies nearby.
6
5

--- PAGE 143 ---
143
- Appendix - 
Introduction to 
the Journey Rules
The Journey rules in Adventures in Middle-earth are 
designed to offer a varied selection of possible encounters 
in the Wild, called Journey Events. These Events are 
intended to be both well-suited to Middle-earth, and to 
reduce the burden of work on the Loremaster. Each offers 
a set of suggestions on what the company may have 
encountered, along with the rules to resolve the Event.
In this appendix you will find a section for each of the 12 
possible outcomes on the Journey Events table. The basic 
event description appears first in each numbered section 
for reference.
 
Below that standard Event description each adventure has 
some customised Events specific to the locale and events 
that are occurring at that point in the campaign.
 
Loremasters should feel free to use these suggested 
encounters or to work with the basic Event description to 
create Events best suited to their group of Player-heroes. 
You have the most direct knowledge of your players and 
what they enjoy, or what would make an entertaining, 
engaging and challenging event at any given moment.
 
Should any Journey Event come up more than once or 
twice, the Loremaster should feel free to select another 
event. If there is an event on one of the tables you feel 
your players will especially enjoy, then you should also 
feel able to run it, regardless of the dice rolls. The Journey 
Rules are there to help you make a great adventure, but 
you need not feel bound by them.
 
Note that “A Darkness in the Marshes” has two journeys. 
Two different options are provided where necessary for that 
adventure, to reflect both river-based and mountainous 
terrain.
 
Adventure	
Events DC
 
Don’t Leave the Path	
15
Of Leaves and Stewed Hobbit 	
13
Kinstrife and Dark Tidings 	
varies
Those Who Tarry No Longer 	
13
A Darkness in the Marshes	
14
The Crossings of Celduin 	
14
The Watch on the Heath 	
15
Appendix

--- PAGE 144 ---
Standard Journey Event Table Entry
1. (or less) A Chance Encounter
The company meet a fellow traveller or a group of travellers. 
The Scout may either make a Dexterity (Stealth) ability check 
to lead the company past the travellers undetected or any 
member of the company may attempt a Charisma (Persuade) 
ability test if they choose to interact with them.
 
If the Persuasion test is successful the company gains 
information concerning the path ahead of them; the first roll 
of their next travel event is made with Advantage.
  
If the Persuasion test is unsuccessful the company has made 
a poor impression on the travellers and the information they 
receive is inaccurate or misleading; the first roll of the next 
event is made with Disadvantage.
 
Don’t Leave the Path
The company hear enchanting singing coming from the forest 
at the edge of the path. A band of Wayward Elves are feasting 
in the woods, and the company can almost smell the delicious 
food on the breeze. The wise thing to do is to soldier on and not 
leave the path. Follow the standard Journey Table entry above 
to deal with the encounter.
 
Of Leaves and Stewed Hobbit
When making camp for the night, the travellers are approached 
by a ragged figure, a battle-hardened old traveller with rotten 
teeth and a pock-marked face. Without so much as a by-your-
leave, he sits down by the fire, pulls off his old boots and sticks 
his stinking, rotten feet out. If the companions question him, he 
introduces himself sullenly as ‘Shanker’. If feeling inhospitable, 
the companions can convince him to leave by threatening 
him with weapons in hand, or with a successful Charisma 
(Intimidation) check.
If they allow Shanker to stay by the fire, though, he produces 
a clay pipe and a bag of excellent pipe-weed. Any Hobbit 
recognises it as Longbottom Leaf from the Shire. Shanker tells 
the characters that he bought it a few days ago from a caravan 
up in the mountains. The caravan was led by one of the ‘little 
folk’ who sold him the pipe-weed. Shanker then laughs cruelly 
– the fools did not know that the Goblins had come back to the 
High Pass. If that caravan makes it down the hills intact, it will 
be a miracle.
 
This tale brings the company both hope and fear – Dindy’s 
caravan is only a day or two ahead at most, but there are 
indeed Goblins nearby.
Kinstrife and Dark Tidings
The company come across the wreckage of a trader’s caravan 
that was ambushed by bandits. Blood on the Road, trampled 
grass, torn sacks and broken crates – and the corpse of a man 
feathered with three arrows. Crows found the body before the 
adventurers did, and few clues remain. The event forewarns 
the presence of bandits in the wood, but could also mislead. 
Follow the standard Journey Table entry above to deal with 
the encounter, substituting Intelligence (Investigation) for 
the Charisma check.
Those Who Tarry No Longer
An Elven messenger, Miriel, approaches the company with 
great haste, hoping to catch Irimë before she travels intro 
the West. Irimë and the envoy will speak in quiet tones on a 
secret matter that will not be shared with the company. There 
is no chance to avoid this meeting, but otherwise follow the 
standard Journey Table entry above to deal with the event. If 
the company impress the envoy she will impart information 
on shortcuts for the road ahead. If they do not impress the 
envoy, then she speaks only in incomprehensible riddles 
before departing.
 
A Darkness in the Marshes
On the way to the Marshes, the company encounters Marcha, 
one of the fabled Wild Hobbits, the inhabitants of the Gladden 
Fields who are distant kin to the Shire-Hobbits. The young 
Hobbit hides from the travellers, vanishing as only Hobbits 
can into the rushes and undergrowth. Only characters with a 
passive Perception of 14 or more have a chance to spot her as 
she hides. If persuaded through kindness to talk, Marcha can 
give the characters directions to the Dwimmerhorn.
 
The Crossings of Celduin
The company encounter a lone shepherdess who has cared for 
her sheep in these meagre pastures alone for many years. She 
may be glad of the meeting, or hostile towards the appearance 
of unexpected strangers. She grew up in Celduin, and can 
relate any of the information in the description in the section 
“The Town” on page 116. Follow the standard Journey Table 
entry above to deal with the encounter.
 
The Watch on the Heath
Our heroes come across a wild eyed, disheveled old man 
who calls himself The Crowherd. He has lost his wits, and is 
barely surviving in The Waste. The Crowherd might give the 
company useful information on the whereabouts of their final 
destination. Or he may not. Follow the standard Journey Table 
entry above to deal with the event.
Journey Event Table Entry 1
144
1/4

--- PAGE 145 ---
Standard Journey Event Table Entry
2. Of Herbs and Stewed Rabbit
The company finds signs of easily foraged food or useful herbs 
at a fortuitous moment, perhaps as their own supplies are 
running low. The Hunter must make a Wisdom (Survival) 
check in an attempt to take advantage of this.
 
If successful, they may choose to either gather food (in which 
case they may prepare a meal which will restore 1 Exhaustion 
level or 1 Hit Die to each member of the company) or they 
may collect herbs (Selected by the LM). If they fail this roll, the 
Guide’s Arrival roll will incur a -1 penalty.
 
The roll made during this task is subject to Disadvantage/ 
Advantage if the Guide’s Embarkation roll was either 6 
(Meagre Supplies and Poor Meals) or 7 (Feasts Fit for the Kings 
of Ancient Times).
 
Don’t Leave the Path
The Hunter  spots a flock of juicy fat black pheasants on a 
branch. Follow the standard Journey Table entry above to 
deal with the event, although there are no useful herbs to be 
gathered in Mirkwood.
 
Of Leaves and Stewed Hobbit
In their search for food, the Hunter passes one of Beorn’s 
flower-strewn meadows filled with honey-bees. They could try 
to acquire some of Beorn’s honey; this requires a Wisdom 
(Survival) check, and if successful the company may remove 
one level of Exhaustion. If the Hunter fails, then the company 
must flee a swarm of angry bees, provoking a -1 to their 
Arrival Roll.
Kinstrife and Dark Tidings
This area is rich in opportunities to catch fish, and the 
riverbanks are lined with fragrant green herbs. Follow the 
standard Journey Table entry above to deal with the event.
 
Those Who Tarry No Longer
Irimë has a deep knowledge of all things that grow, and if 
persuaded can help the company’s Hunter find nutritious 
fruits, vegetables and useful herbs to sustain them while on the 
road. Follow the standard Journey Table entry above to deal 
with the event, substituting a Charisma (Persuasion) check 
for the Wisdom (Survival) check.
A Darkness in the Marshes
Follow the standard Journey Table entry above. The Vales 
of Anduin are full of rabbits, and verdant herbs. The Misty 
Mountains is home to various wiry goats that offer good 
eating if they can be caught.
 
The Crossings of Celduin
Many fat rabbits graze the sweet herbs of the region without 
interference from men-folk. Follow the standard Journey Table 
entry above to deal with the event.
The Watch on the Heath
Food is hard to come by in this place. But a sharp-eyed Hunter 
will spot the stringy goats that eke out a meagre living here, 
amid brackish pools in which grows a strain of Hagweed. 
Follow the standard Journey Table entry above to deal with 
the event.
Journey Event Table Entry 2
145
1

--- PAGE 146 ---
Standard Journey Event Table Entry
3. An Obstacle
Fallen trees, a fast flowing river, a rockslide, or a fallen bridge 
block the path ahead. The company must work together to 
clear their path. The Guide must make a Wisdom (Survival)
ability check and each of the other company members must 
test against their choice of Survival or Athletics.
If the company has horses or pack ponies, one of the company 
must instead test against Wisdom (Animal Handling). 
 
All these tests are subject to Disadvantage/Advantage if the 
Guide’s Embarkation roll was either 4 or 9. If all of the tests are 
successful, the company has worked well together, clearing the 
route and feeling a sense of satisfaction from their unity. As a 
result, the Guide’s Arrival roll will benefit from a +1 modifier. If 
half or more of the tests are successful, the route is cleared with 
some difficulty and no bonus or penalty is incurred.
If less than half of the rolls are successful, but not all fail, the 
company has struggled to overcome the obstacle and each of 
them gains a level of Exhaustion.
 
If all the rolls fail, the company is forced to backtrack to bypass 
the obstacle. Each of them gains a level of Exhaustion and the 
Guide’s Arrival roll is subject to a -1 penalty.
Don’t Leave the Path
The company enter a region of the forest where thick spider-
webs criss-cross the path. Follow the standard Journey Table 
entry above to deal with the event.
 
Of Leaves and Stewed Hobbit
Streams running down from the Misty Mountains have turned 
the road into a morass of mud. It might be faster - and cleaner 
- to go cross-country over a rocky hillock and find the road 
again a few miles easy. Follow the standard Journey Table 
entry above to deal with the encounter.
 
Kinstrife and Dark Tidings
Blood-sucking insects from the marshes descend on the 
company. These swarms are an obstacle to be overcome. 
Follow the standard Journey Table entry above to deal with 
the event.
 
Those Who Tarry No Longer
Heavy rain over the last few days has washed away an ancient 
bridge spanning a fast flowing river. Irimë sees this as an event 
of dark portent. Follow the standard Journey Table entry above 
to deal with the event.
 
A Darkness in the Marshes
Pea Soup! A thick fog descends, and the company risk 
separation. Follow the standard Journey Table entry above 
to deal with the event, with the company having to use their 
wilderness savvy or their athletic ability in order to stay 
together, or backtrack and find their lost companions.
 
The Crossings of Celduin
A heavy rain has fallen for an entire day, and the terrain ahead 
is now muddy and dangerous. Follow the standard Journey 
Table entry above to deal with the quagmire.
The Watch on the Heath
The company lose their way as the path peters out. The 
guide cannot find an easy way into the mountains, and the 
companions are forced to retrace their steps several times. 
They must exert themselves, using all their combined wits and 
sinews to get back on track. Follow the standard Journey Table 
entry above to deal with the event.
Journey Event Table Entry 3
146
1

--- PAGE 147 ---
Standard Journey Event Table Entry
4. In Need of Help
The company discover a band of travellers who have suffered 
some misfortune, or a small settlement beset by woes. The 
company may choose to help them, or not. If they choose not 
to, they must make a Wisdom saving throw to avoid gaining 
a point of Shadow. If, instead, they choose to help, the 
company must make three tests, chosen by the Loremaster, 
to reflect them aiding the innocent souls. Each test must be 
made by a different character (unless there are fewer than 3 
Player-heroes in the company) and will typically be selected 
from: Survival, Traditions, Insight. Persuade, Animal 
Handling, Medicine or Nature.
It is possible that the same skill may be called upon more 
than once, in which case it must be attempted by two different 
Player-heroes.
If all of the tests are successful, each member of the company 
gains Inspiration. Additionally, the company will receive a +1 
bonus to the Guide’s roll upon arrival at their destination. 
If half or more of the rolls are successful, the company may 
select one of its number to become Inspired and the company 
receives a +1 bonus to the Guide’s Arrival roll.
If one of the rolls is successful, the company receives a +1 
bonus to the Guide’s Arrival roll.
If all the rolls fail, the company is slightly despondent and 
receives a -1 modifier to the Guide’s Arrival roll.
Don’t Leave the Path
Some movement in the woods at night startles the ponies, 
who are already nervous in the forest gloom. All characters 
make DC 15 Wisdom (Animal Handling) checks. (A kind 
Loremaster might allow players to use Survival, Medicine or 
Nature instead.
If everyone succeeds, the ponies are calmed, and the company 
get a +1 bonus to their Arrival roll. If half or more succeed, 
there’s no further benefit or consequence. If less than half of 
the company succeed, then one of the ponies runs off into the 
woods and vanishes; recovering it means the company gains 1 
level of Exhaustion. If everyone fails, then the pony is gone for 
good: everyone gains 1 level of Exhaustion and their eventual 
payment is reduced to 20 silver pennies each. 
Of Leaves and Stewed Hobbit
The company encounter a family of settlers from the southland, 
who came north along the Anduin in search of hope, having 
heard tell that Wilderland was becoming peaceful and 
prosperous. Their wagon is stuck in the mud, and they cannot 
get it out - will the characters help them? Follow the standard 
Journey Table entry above to deal with the encounter.
 
Kinstrife and Dark Tidings
Late in the afternoon, the companions come across a band 
of three Beornings. One of their number, Angund, has been 
wounded by Goblin arrows while collecting firewood. He 
needs help or he will die. His friends are fiercely suspicious 
of these strangers in their land. Follow the standard Journey 
Table entry above to deal with the event.
 
Those Who Tarry No Longer
Irimë is afflicted by a deep sense of despair. Her mood is fey: 
she sees only the doom of the last of her people and thinks 
back on those who have fallen over the long Ages. She yearns 
for the sea and the uttermost West, yet finds no hope in this 
desire. The Player Heroes may choose to try to help her lift her 
dark mood, but in doing so, run the risk of being drawn into 
the melancholy that afflicts her. Follow the standard Journey 
Table entry above to deal with the event, encouraging the 
company to be creative in their choice of skill check in their 
attempt to raise Irimë’s spirits.
 
A Darkness in the Marshes
The company encounter a band of Woodmen travellers, 
carrying stone or wooden carved goods for sale at the market 
in Woodman Town. They have been beset by clouds of stinging 
and biting insects. Follow the standard Journey Table entry 
above to deal with the event.
 
The Crossings of Celduin
One of the company’s horses throws a shoe, or becomes lame 
after a hard day’s ride. Follow the standard Journey Table 
entry above to deal with the lame mount.
The Watch on the Heath
The company come across a juvenile Eagle flapping in the 
dust of the Waste. It has been wounded by a wickedly barbed 
Orc arrow. The noble creature is starved and giving up hope. 
Follow the standard Journey Table entry above to deal with 
the event.
Journey Event Table Entry 4
147
1

--- PAGE 148 ---
Standard Journey Event Table Entry
5. Agents of the Enemy
Hostile scouts or hunters cross the company’s path, this may 
even be a sharp eyed Creban, gathering news for the Enemy.
The Look-out must make a Wisdom (Perception) check to 
spot the enemy before they become aware of the company.
If successful, the company has seized the initiative and may 
decide how to proceed. They may either sneak past the hostile 
force or ambush them, in which case their enemies are Surprised.
If the Look-out’s Perception roll fails, the hostile scouts set an 
ambush and the heroes are Surprised.
If combat ensues, the Loremaster may resolve it as normal, 
setting out the combat abilities of the small enemy party to give 
a small to moderate challenge to the company.
All rolls made outside of combat during this task are subject to 
Disadvantage/Advantage if the Guide’s Embarkation roll was 
either 3 or 10.
Don’t Leave the Path
A band of Attercops plots to snare the company with webs. The 
look-out may make a DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check to 
spot the danger. If successful, the company avoid the spiders. 
Otherwise, they blunder into the webs, and must battle the 
spiders. See page 105 of the Loremasters Guide for details 
of the Attercops. There is one Attercop for every two heroes, 
rounding up if necessary.
 
Of Leaves and Stewed Hobbit
Early during the journey, the companions misread the weather, 
and they are caught in a torrential summer downpour. If 
the company’s Scouts cannot find shelter with a successful 
Wisdom (Survival) check, then the company suffers a -1 
penalty to the final Arrival roll.
 
Kinstrife and Dark Tidings
The company cross the hunting grounds of a band of outlaws. 
Follow the standard Journey Table entry above to deal with 
the event. There are as many Thugs as there are heroes and 
one Outlaw that is their nominal captain (see pgs 73-75 of the 
Loremaster’s Guide).
 
Those Who Tarry No Longer
The day has been especially long and hard, and every step 
walked can be felt as a deep weariness in the bones. Irimë 
on the other hand seems completely unaffected by any sign 
of fatigue. The Look-out must make a Charisma (Persuasion) 
check.  If successful, Irimë will share with the Company a flask 
of Miruvor. This will remove 1d4 levels of Exhaustion and 
returns 1 Hit Die.
If the check fails, Irimë is struck only by the frailty of the 
Company and will not share the cordial with them. Each 
member of the Company gains a level of Exhaustion.
A Darkness in the Marshes
Will the Look-out spot the scouting party of Snaga before they 
are ambushed? There is one Goblin for each member of the 
company. These Snaga Trackers are direct servants of the 
Gibbet King. Replace their Coward ability and replace it with 
Bloodthirsty.
 
The Crossings of Celduin
A flock of suspiciously large black crows crosses the sky in 
the company’s path. Follow the standard Journey Table entry 
above to deal with the encounter. If the Look-out is successful 
then the company may drive off the flock with 3 successful 
ranged attacks. If the Look-out fails their Perception check, 
the crows attack the company’s mounts before flapping off, 
leaving the heroes to calm and tend their horses and with a -1 
to their arrival roll.
 
The Watch on the Heath
The huge piles of stone in the waste seem to move at night. The 
Look-out must make a DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check to 
become aware of this.
If the test fails, the company suffers -1 to their Arrival roll as the 
Look-out uses one of the stone piles as a landmark, and ends 
up contributing to the Guide leading the company around in a 
circle. Worse, the company are now surrounded by these stone 
piles, which seem to be drawing closer every day. Another DC 
15 Wisdom (Perception) check is required of the Look-out to 
thread a course between the piles. 
If this second test is failed, then the company is forced to climb 
over one of the stone piles. The pile is made up of thousands of 
jagged rocks and pebbles, and soon everyone in the company 
has banged a shin or cut a foot on a piece of sharp rock, 
gaining a level of Exhaustion. Weirdly, there is no blood on 
any of the stones.
Journey Event Table Entry 5
148
1/4

--- PAGE 149 ---
Standard Journey Event Table Entry
6. The Wonders of Middle-earth
The company finds itself presented with a spectacular vista. 
A sunset, a forest glade, a mountain range. Each member of 
the company must make a Wisdom check or Investigation 
(Intelligence) check (their choice). If successful, they see the 
beauty of the scene and feel invigorated, recovering from a 
level of Exhaustion. If unsuccessful, they instead see brooding 
clouds, hard paths yet to be walked or steep and daunting hills 
to be climbed and suffer a level of Exhaustion. If all members 
of the company are successful, they receive a +1 bonus to the 
Guide’s Arrival roll.
If all fail, the Guide’s Arrival roll incurs a -1 penalty. Rolls 
made for this task are subject to Disadvantage/Advantage if 
the Guide’s Embarkation roll was either 5 or 8.
 
Don’t Leave the Path
A flock of huge purple butterflies flutter down from the treetops 
and nest on the sleeping company. These butterflies are like 
a velvet shroud; a wonderful sight, but also potentially a 
claustrophobic and unsettling encounter. Follow the standard 
Journey Table entry above to deal with the event.
 
Of Leaves and Stewed Hobbit
The setting sun casts a glow of honey gold across Beorn’s 
lands. It is a beautiful and wild place, and the company 
have a great distance to travel, and an important mission to 
complete. Follow the standard Journey Table entry above to 
deal with the event.
 
Kinstrife and Dark Tidings
The great Anduin River stretches before the company. Deep, 
wide and fast flowing, it is both an invigorating and daunting 
sight. Follow the standard Journey Table entry above to deal 
with the event.
 
Those Who Tarry No Longer
Upon the road Irimë is most often quiet and reserved but this 
night, as the Company settle into their camp she seems content 
to engage in conversation. Any member of the Company may 
choose to sit and talk with her. Irimë will speak about the 
setting sun, of how, like her, it falls to the West. She will talk of 
the lives of the Elves in Middle-earth as long summer’s days, 
now reaching their twilight hour. She will speak of the lives of 
Men and Dwarves as fleeting, the last flash of sunlight before 
it dips below the horizon. Follow the standard Journey Table 
entry above to deal with the event.
 
A Darkness in the Marshes
Follow the standard Journey Table entry above. The rolling 
lands around the Great River, or the sheer rise of the Misty 
Mountains can both daunt and inspire the weary traveller. 
Follow the standard Journey Table entry above.
 
The Crossings of Celduin
From the backs of their mounts, the company are struck by 
the early morning mist burning off across the ancient barrows 
and fallen stones that pepper the vales around the Running 
River. This may be an uplifting sight or an ill portent. Follow 
the standard Journey Table entry above to deal with this event. 
The Watch on the Heath
The company pass through an incredible valley of wind 
carved rocks, twisted into incredible shapes. Whether this is 
an inspiring and beautiful sight, or an unnerving experience 
is down to the dice. Follow the standard Journey Table entry 
above to deal with the event.
Journey Event Table Entry 6
149
1

--- PAGE 150 ---
Standard Journey Event Table Entry
7. A Hunt
The Hunter sees signs or tracks left by some game that would 
likely prove a far better meal than their travelling rations, 
perhaps at a point in the journey where the company’s supplies 
are running low, or when their spirits seem to be flagging.
The Hunter must make a Wisdom (Survival) ability check to 
hunt down this game.
If the check is successfully made by 5 or more, the prey is 
brought down and a great feast is had, restoring 1 level of 
Exhaustion and giving a +1 bonus to the Guide’s Arrival roll.
 
If the check is successful, the company enjoy a hearty meal 
and each may remove a level of Exhaustion.
If the check fails, the hunt was unsuccessful and the company 
spend a hungry night, resulting in each gaining a level of 
Exhaustion.
 
Don’t Leave the Path
The company finds a good place to camp and rest, but there’s 
a complication - the huntsman finds a gigantic paw-print in 
the mud. It is definitely that of a wolf, but it is incredibly large 
and heavy – the beast must be at least the size of a bear! The 
prospect of encountering such a beast makes resting here less 
appealing.
The hunter must make a DC 15 Wisdom (Survival) or 
Intelligence (Investigation) check. If successful, the 
character correctly determines that the print is old, and that 
the wolf is no longer nearby. The company can rest in comfort, 
recovering a level of Exhaustion. If the character succeeds by 
5 or more, the investigation also discovers a cache of supplies 
left by some previous traveller that was partially destroyed by 
the wolf. The remaining supplies, including a good bottle of 
wine, give a +1 bonus to the Arrival roll.
If unsuccessful, the hunter mistakenly determines that the 
print is fresh and that a gigantic wolf is lurking in the woods 
nearby. If the company continue on they fail to find a good 
camp site.  If they choose to stay anyway, disturbing sounds 
during the night frighten Balder and Belgo, who repeatedly 
wake up the company with cries of “Wolf! Wolf!”  Either way, 
the company gain 1 level of exhaustion.  If the hunter fails by 
5 or more, Baldor panics and urges the caravan to travel all 
night, giving a further -1 penalty to the Arrival roll. 
 
Of Leaves and Stewed Hobbit
The Hunter spots a wild sheep on a nearby hillside. It’s 
completely out in the open, an easy shot that means a 
delicious mutton dinner - but then the shadow of an Eagle 
passes overhead. The Hunter isn’t the only one hunting this 
prey! Does the character shoot or not?
 
If the character does nothing, then a huge Eagle swoops down, 
grabs the sheep, and flies off.
If the character shoots it requires a DC 14 Wisdom (Survival) 
check. Succeed, and the sheep is felled with one blow, and 
the characters have a +1 bonus on their Arrival roll. Fail, and 
the eagle gets the sheep. Fail by 5 or more, and the character 
nearly hits the Eagle - and Eagles, like elephants, never forget. 
If the unlucky hunter ever visits the fabled Eyrie of the Eagles, 
he or she is treated with Mistrust.
Kinstrife and Dark Tidings
The hunter spots a huge silver salmon in either the great river 
or a tributary. Either the company will feast like kings, or 
someone is getting soaked to the bone. Follow the standard 
Journey Table entry above to deal with the event.
 
Those Who Tarry No Longer
The Vales of Anduin are home to many tufted boar. Follow the 
standard Journey Table entry above to deal with the event.
 
A Darkness in the Marshes
Follow the standard Journey Table entry above.
The Crossings of Celduin
The Hunter spies a tasty lowland goat that is all alone. Follow 
the standard Journey Table entry above to deal with the hunt.
The Watch on the Heath
The hunter comes across an unusual sight - a prodigiously 
meaty mountain sheep growing on the thin grass of the waste. 
How it grew to such a large size is a mystery. But it looks like 
mutton is back on the menu. Follow the standard Journey 
Table entry above to deal with the event.
Journey Event Table Entry 7
150
1/4

--- PAGE 151 ---
Standard Journey Event Table Entry
8. A Fine Spot for a Camp
The Scout has spotted a place to make camp. Perhaps it is a 
sheltered glade, or an existing campsite, used by travellers. 
It may even be an ancient building, allowing the company to 
rest a little easier on their journey. The Scout must make an 
Investigation check as the company draw close to the site.
If the check succeeds by 5 or more the camp site is all the 
company could have hoped for, and they may benefit from 
a long rest in addition to recovering a level of Exhaustion. As 
an added bonus, the Guide will receive a +1 modifier to their 
Arrival roll. If the check is simply successful, the company has 
an undisturbed night, and if needed each may recover a level 
of Exhaustion.
If the check fails, the company spend a restless night. They 
awake weary and dispirited and suffering from a level 
of exhaustion. If the check failed by 5 or more, the camp is 
already occupied by something hostile and dangerous; a Troll, 
sheltering from the sun, an Orcish war party, a band of Evil 
Men, intent on dark deeds, perhaps even a bear. Whatever 
the nature of the threat, the company have blundered into its 
midst and combat will surely ensue.
Regardless of the result of the combat, assuming the company 
survives, the night is a poor one at best and the only memories 
they carry with them of the camp are those of hard knocks and 
a final, unfulfilling rest. In addition to any damage sustained 
the Guide’s Arrival roll is subject to a -1 modifier.
 
Don’t Leave the Path
The company has need to make camp in a region where the 
trees are rotten and dead. Huge rotten branches hang low over 
the path, and could break at any time. Follow the standard 
Journey Table entry above to deal with the event: the easily 
harvested wood may provide shelter and warmth, or perhaps 
falls unexpectedly close to sleeping heroes. The dead wood 
might be home to a number of Attercops equal to that of 
company members. (See the Loremaster’s Guide page 105 for 
Attercops).  The battle may also make use of the Rotten Trees 
scenery feature (see page 93 of the Loremaster’s Guide).
 
Of Leaves and Stewed Hobbit
The company chances upon the campsite of some of Beorn’s 
followers. A successful DC 12 Charisma (Persuasion) check 
from the Guide lets the company stay the night in a hay-loft; 
failing to express common courtesy means the company finds 
no welcome and must sleep in the open. The companions sleep 
miserably and are not considered to rest properly for the rest of 
the journey, and so all suffer a level of Exhaustion.
Kinstrife and Dark Tidings
Long has this region been home to bandits. On finding a well- 
used campsite it is hard to tell if it is still dangerously occupied, 
or a highly convenient place in which to make a new camp. 
Follow the standard Journey Table entry above to deal with the 
event. There is a possibility that the Thugs will return to their 
camp. Use the statistics on page 73 of the Loremaster’s Guide 
for the thugs.
 
Those Who Tarry No Longer
The company come across a regularly used hunting camp 
of the Woodmen, apparently sheltered by ancient trees, and 
thick banks of bracken. But it may prove less than it first 
appears, perhaps having been long abandoned as draughty 
and uncomfortable. The presence of Irimë means there is no 
chance of being attacked by enemies at this time. Otherwise 
follow the standard Journey Table entry above to deal with the 
event.
A Darkness in the Marshes
The company sets camp in a mouldering ruin, slowly sinking 
into the landscape. While it may prove the best campsite in 
the region, it could also be home to Wild Wolves (two per 
hero). Follow the standard Journey Table entry above. Use the 
statistics on page 111 of the Loremaster’s Guide for the Wolves.
The Crossings of Celduin
A sheltered cave in a rocky outcrop looks like a perfect campsite. 
It may have a freshwater spring, or it may be home to a Cave or 
Hill-troll (See pages 107-108 of the Loremaster’s Guide). Follow 
the standard Journey Table entry above to deal with this event.
 
The Watch on the Heath
The temperature drops, and all the company are tired and wet 
by the time darkness falls and they must make camp. Do they 
light a fire, or do they heed Witherfinger’s warnings? If the 
company do not light a fire, then everyone must immediately 
make a DC 15 Wisdom (Survival) check or gain a level of 
Exhaustion. If they do light a fire, there is no need for a test, 
but something huge and reeking of death flies low over the 
campsite in the middle of the night. All characters must 
make a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw; if half or more of the 
company fail then they suffer -1 to their Arrival Roll.
Journey Event Table Entry 8
151
1/4

--- PAGE 152 ---
Standard Journey Event Table Entry
9. A Lingering Memory of Times Long Past
The company discovers a relic of past ages. A statue, a building, 
or the remains of an ancient settlement. It is even possible that 
they witness a travelling company of Elves, making their way 
towards the Grey Havens.
With good fortune and a light heart, the company will be 
uplifted by this sight, sensing something hopeful for the future 
in this glimpse into the past. With poor fortune, the company 
will be filled with a sense of doom, seeing the decay of lost 
glory and the end of hope.
Each member of the company should make a Wisdom check. 
If successful, they are filled with hope regarding their journey 
and their struggles against the Shadow and gain Inspiration. If 
they make the roll by 5 or more they are so positively affected 
by the sight that they may also remove a level of Exhaustion. 
Additionally, if at least half of the company is successful, a 
+1 modifier may be applied to the Guide’s Arrival roll. With 
a failed roll, they see only the fleeting nature of life and the 
fall of all that is good, and must make a Corruption check (a 
Wisdom saving throw) to avoid gaining 2 points of Shadow.
If they fail the roll by 5 or more, they feel morose and wearied 
by the scene and suffer a level of Exhaustion in addition to the 
Shadow points. Additionally, if more than half of the company 
fail (since we’re talking about individual rolls) their roll, a -1 
modifier must be applied to the Guide’s Arrival roll.
 
Don’t Leave the Path
The oppressive darkness of the woods drains the company’s 
spirits. In a drift of skeletal leaves they come across a web 
strewn skeleton, wearing a piece of beautifully wrought 
jewellery - surely the work of Elves, or the ancient men from 
across the sea. Follow the standard Journey Table entry above 
to deal with the event. If the company attempt to take the 
necklace it crumbles to powder, and they gain the ill effects of 
the event, however they rolled.
 
Of Leaves and Stewed Hobbit
In the distance the company see a procession of silver-clad 
Elves, heading West toward the Grey Havens and the sea. 
The Elves are too far away to reach, but brief snatches of their 
song are borne on the wind. Whether the song is uplifting or 
saddening is up to the dice. Follow the standard Journey Table 
entry above to deal with the event.
 
Kinstrife and Dark Tidings
The heroes find a ruin of elder days, featuring carvings of men-
like figures battling monstrous foes, which could be orcs or 
trolls. Follow the standard Journey Table entry above to deal 
with the event.
Depending on the rolls, the company are either buoyed up by 
this ancient story of the battle against evil, or are daunted by 
the numberless perils ahead.
 
Those Who Tarry No Longer
Pausing for a rest by the side of the road, the company realise 
they have sat amidst not boulders, but huge fragments of an 
ancient statue, made long ago by Men. Follow the standard 
Journey Table entry above to deal with the event, with Irimë 
adding to the sense of wonder at what Mannish folk may 
achieve in their short span of years, or the despair of how 
quickly everything falls to ruin.
A Darkness in the Marshes
By the River: Elves in graceful, silver boats pass silently by. 
Depending on how the company roll, the elves are either deep 
in quite contemplation, or under a heavy pall of sadness.
Away from the River: The company stumble into the ruin of 
an ancient Dwarven waystation, the stone work is still sharp, 
but all woodwork is long gone and blue green lichen covers 
everything. Is this a reminder of enduring craftsmanship, or 
the slow decline of all things?
Follow the standard Journey Table entry above to deal with 
the event.
The Crossings of Celduin
The company realise they have made their camp in the midst 
of an ancient burial site. Follow the standard Journey Table 
entry above to deal with the event. If a creature is discovered, 
then use the Night Wight on page 27.
 
The Watch on the Heath
In the dust of the Waste the company discover an ancient 
artefact. It appears to be some kind of map from long ago, 
carved into a black stone with a hole for a cord, perhaps carved 
by a Dwarf. Is this a cause of inspiration, or a dismal reminder 
of times past? Follow the standard Journey Table entry above 
to deal with the event.
Journey Event Table Entry 9
152
1

--- PAGE 153 ---
Standard Journey Event Table Entry
10. A Place Touched by the Shadow
The essence of something dark and terrible lingers here. 
However even the darkest of Shadows may hide something 
bright and good.
The Scout must make an Intelligence (Investigation) check 
to become aware of the darkness surrounding this area before 
the company blunders too deeply into it.
If the roll is a success by 5 or more, the company witness 
some sign that reaffirms their hope in the struggle against the 
Enemy. Each member of the company may remove one point 
of Shadow and gains Inspiration. Additionally, the Guide will 
receive a +1 bonus to their Arrival roll. On a successful roll, 
they manage to avoid the pervasive sense of corruption that 
lingers here and may count themselves lucky. Accordingly, the 
Guide receives a +1 bonus to their Arrival roll.
If the Scout fails their roll, the company has wandered into the 
heart of the area and feels the dark nature of the place touch 
their hearts. Each hero must make a Corruption check to avoid 
gaining a point of Shadow. If the Scout’s roll fails by 5 or more, 
some dark thing still lurks here, ancient and evil, and the 
company have disturbed its slumber…
 
Don’t Leave the Path
This area is filled with pits of brackish water covered with 
deep layers of ancient blackened leaves. Over thousands 
of years these pits have swallowed hundreds of unfortunate 
travellers. The air around them is thick with menace. Follow 
the standard Journey Table entry above to deal with the event. 
Spotting the pits before falling in is inspiring; coming close 
to falling in will remind the company of the dangers ahead; 
Failing the check by 5 or more means the company fall into the 
pits, and spend a miserable time dragging one another out, 
gaining a level of Exhaustion in the process.
 
Of Leaves and Stewed Hobbit
The company stumble into a darkened dell, littered with what 
appear to be large wolf skulls. Follow the standard Journey 
Table entry above to deal with the event. If the Scout fails by 5 
or more then an ancient Warg that has been gnawing on the old 
bones of its fellows is awoken from its slumber. (LMG, pg 111)
Kinstrife and Dark Tidings
The company’s route finds them crossing a boggy, backwater 
lake that is draining away to an evil-smelling marsh. With the 
disappearance of the water something foul is being revealed, 
and an evil atmosphere is gathering in this place. Follow the 
standard Journey Table entry above to deal with the event.
Those Who Tarry No Longer
The Company passes through an area of ancient ruins, 
perhaps once inhabited by Elves in ages long past. Little 
tangible remains, save a single graceful archway and a low 
wall but, despite this, the beauty of the architecture is striking. 
Irimë will begin to speak of the greatest artisans of the Noldor 
and will speak of Celebrimbor and the wonders he wrought. 
Follow the standard Journey Table entry above to deal with 
the event, replacing Intelligence (Investigation) with 
Charisma(Persuasion) to bring out the best of this brush 
with the past in the company of such an awe-inspiring guide. 
In this instance there is no chance of disturbing an ancient evil.
A Darkness in the Marshes
A nearby body of water, or the river itself, boils and froths with 
a foul grey foam. The companions struggle to overcome their 
fear and maintain control of their boats. A breed of grey skinned 
Marsh Hags (LMG, pg. 99), (one per hero) call these treacherous 
waters home and seek to drown any interlopers. Follow the 
standard Journey Table entry above to deal with the event.
 
The Crossings of Celduin
The company’s route takes them through a glade of sinister-
looking trees that have unnerving, agonised faces in their 
gnarled boles. Follow the standard Journey Table entry above 
to deal with the encounter. Hiding under the skeletal leaves 
choking the glade are sleeping Hobgoblins, one per hero, (see 
page 98 of the Lormaster’s Guide ).
 
The Watch on the Heath
The company’s scout finds one of the old dwarf-roads that 
once crossed the Waste. This road does not head in the exact 
direction of the watchtower, but the characters could choose to 
take a longer but easier route by following the road for a while 
instead of going cross-country. The company must decide. If 
the company chose not to follow the road they feel suddenly 
uplifted as if they have escaped a threatening situation, and 
may remove a point of Shadow, or recover 1 Hit Die. If they 
choose to follow the road, the company proceed along the 
straight, flat road. However, when it comes time to leave it, 
something strange happens. They feel an unnatural compulsion 
to keep following the road. The company must make a DC 15 
Wisdom saving throw to leave the road willingly. Those who 
fail are unable to step off the road, and must be dragged off by 
their companions. If everyone fails, the whole company can try 
again a day later, but must make a Corruption check (a DC 12 
Wisdom saving throw)or gain a Shadow point.
(Whatever dark force reached out for the companions is not 
part of this scenario. Brave companions can return to the road 
after completing their current quest, to investigate the matter 
further.)
Journey Event Table Entry 10
153
1/4

--- PAGE 154 ---
Standard Journey Event Table Entry
11. The Enemy is Abroad
Evil Men, Orcs, Goblins or other servants of the Enemy are 
moving through the area. Avoiding them will be challenging.
If the Guide’s result on the Embarkation roll was a 3, a 
confrontation is unavoidable. In spite of this, a successful 
Wisdom (Perception) ability check from the Look-out will 
allow the company time to prepare and will grant them a 
round of surprise in the combat.
A failed Perception roll in this instance will indicate that the 
company has little time to prepare and receives no such bonus.
If the Guide received a 10 on the Embarkation roll, the Lookout 
may make a Wisdom (Perception) or Dexterity (Stealth) 
ability check (player’s choice) to allow the company to find a 
path that will bypass the enemy force unnoticed.
Don’t Leave the Path
A host of Spiders gathers near the path.  If the Embarkation roll 
was a 3, then the Attercops have been following the company 
since they left the Elf-King’s halls, and there is no way to avoid 
the Spiders. If it was a 10, then the company can sneak past 
the Spiders with a DC 15 Dexterity (Stealth) or Wisdom 
(Perception) check from the Look-out.
If the Embarkation roll was neither a 3 nor a 10, then the 
company as a whole can try to sneak past the Spiders with a 
Dexterity (stealth) test. If anyone fails, the Spiders attack. See 
page 105 of the Loremasters Guide for details of the Attercops. 
There are sufficient numbers of the ½ CR Attercops to make an 
appropriate challenge for the company.
Of Leaves and Stewed Hobbit
The company passes a pair of Woodman trappers, who stop 
and ask if the companions have heard of a new Inn in these 
parts, said to be run by ‘wise children’. A successful DC 13 
Wisdom (Insight) check suggests that the trappers intend to 
rob the inn, and the companions can confirm this by sneaking 
after the trappers with a DC 13 Dexterity (Stealth) check and 
listening to their conversation at the campfire. Challenging 
the trappers dissuades them from their planned larceny, while 
killing them outright to prevent their crime without trying to 
discourage them is a despicable act and qualifies as a Misdeed 
worthy of at least 3 points of Shadow.
 
Kinstrife and Dark Tidings
A pack of wolves has crossed the Gladden River and are now 
hunting in the vales. While they are unlikely to attack a band 
of armed adventurers, a lone Look-out might be easier prey, 
especially if he is a toothsome morsel like a Hobbit or a fat 
Dale-man. Follow the standard Journey Table entry above to 
deal with the event.
Those Who Tarry No Longer
The Company has strayed into an area where a powerful 
servant of the Enemy dwells. Perhaps some great Troll, maybe 
an old and mighty Orc chieftain. Regardless of the nature of the 
threat, such is Irimë’s power that she has caught the attention 
of this creature and it will attempt to seek her out, drawn to 
the brightness of her spirit. Follow the standard Journey Table 
entry above to deal with the event.
 
A Darkness in the Marshes
A pack of wild wolves shadows the company (one Wild Wolf 
per hero with a Wolf Leader). For a while they stay out of 
bowshot, and can be heard howling at night. Eventually they 
attack. Follow the standard Journey Table entry above to deal 
with the event.
 
The Crossings of Celduin
Shortly after the sun sets, a group of Goblins come grumbling 
and spitting across the company’s path. There are two Misty 
Mountain Goblins for every member of the company. One has 
the Call for Aid shadow ability. See page 102 of the Loremaster’s 
Guide for the Goblins statistics.
The Watch on the Heath
There are steep shafts like dry wells scattered across the Waste, 
and an unwary companion might accidentally fall into one. 
There are loose stones and scree around the lip of each shaft, 
so putting a foot wrong may send the character tumbling down. 
 
The Look-out and Guide must both make DC 15 Wisdom 
(Perception) checks to to avoid the shafts; if both tests are 
failed, then the company tumble and slide into a hidden pit. 
The company suffer a level of Exhaustion from the delay and 
effort of rescuing themselves.
 
If one test succeeds then some of the company fall in; everyone 
must make a either a Dexterity (Acrobatics) or Strength 
(Athletics) check. Those who fail fall in. After being forced to 
extricate their comrades from the pit, the company suffer a -1 
to their Arrival Roll.
Journey Event Table Entry 11
154
1/4

--- PAGE 155 ---
Standard Journey Event Table Entry
12. (or more) Many Meetings? Fly you Fools!
The company has encountered a traveller upon the road, but 
all may not be as it at first appears.
If the Embarkation roll was a 1, the encounter will automatically 
be with a servant of the Enemy. Conversely, if it was a 12 the 
company has encountered one of the great powers for Good. 
The outcome of such a meeting however, will depend on how 
the company approaches matters.
If neither a 1 or a 12 was rolled on the Embarkation table, the 
Look-out must make a Wisdom (Perception) check.
If the roll succeeds by 5 or more, the company has encountered 
a person of great standing, and sees them for what they are.
Each member of the company may immediately remove one 
point of Shadow. They may also seek an Audience (see page 
192 of the Player’s Guide) with them and, if successful, they 
may gain great knowledge of their path ahead which will grant 
them advantage on the initial rolls on their next encounter, 
and will also bestow a +1 bonus to their Arrival roll. If the 
Audience goes particularly well, the Loremaster may decide 
that the company have gained a Patron.
If the Look-out’s roll succeeds, they have spotted the traveller, 
but do not realise who they may truly be. The initial description 
of this encounter should then be played out as if it was a result 
of 1 on this table (A Chance Encounter).
Should the company choose to interact with the traveller, 
successful Wisdom (Insight) rolls or some demonstration 
that the company has true and good purpose should lead 
to the true identity of the person they have met. Should this 
happen, the encounter should then play out in much the same 
way as detailed above.
If the Look-out’s roll fails, the company have encountered 
a dark and powerful foe way beyond any of them. For low-
level companies this could be a superior force of Orcs, a pack 
of Wargs, or perhaps a particularly large and fierce Troll. At 
higher levels it could be something much darker and more 
powerful – a warband of Uruk-hai, or even a Nazgûl about his 
master’s dark bidding.
Companies must immediately make a Corruption check to 
avoid gaining 2 points of Shadow and they must seek to avoid 
further confrontation by each making a a Dexterity (Stealth) 
check (with a single additional Animal Handling check if the 
company has horses or pack ponies) to slip away unnoticed.
Should more than half fail, they will need to flee in haste for fear 
of their very lives. All gain an additional level of Exhaustion, 
additionally the arrival roll will be subject to a -1 modifier.
If the Look-out’s roll fails by 5 or more they are automatically 
spotted, with no chance to sneak away. They must flee in haste 
for fear of their very lives. They automatically gain 2 points of 
Shadow, and an additional level of Exhaustion, additionally 
the arrival roll will be subject to a -1 modifier.
Don’t Leave the Path
If the company meet an ally here, they they encounter King 
Thranduil and his court, out hunting the fabled White Deer 
of Mirkwood. The stag has vanished, much to the king’s 
consternation, but at least this gives the company a chance to 
pay their respects, and possibly make amends if their Audience 
with Lindar went awry.
If the company encounter a foe, then they meet Tauler the 
Hunter, one of the most dangerous of the fabled Great Spiders 
of Mirkwood. Big enough to suck an Oliphaunt dry, Tauler is 
a foe far beyond the company. All they can do is run or hide 
while he horrifically consumes one of their ponies.
Of Leaves and Stewed Hobbit
The company encounter an old man, with a long white beard, 
bent almost double as he walks along the Road. He leans on 
a gnarled staff of wood, and bright eyes glitter beneath his 
battered hat. His raiment is grey, but keen-eyed companions 
might spot the flash of white robes beneath his travel-soiled 
cloak. The old man’s boots are caked with thick mud, as if 
he has been walking in the marshlands near the Great River. 
The old man does not stop as he walks south, but he makes 
a strange gesture of benediction with one hand as he passes 
the company. The blessing of Saruman the White is a potent 
one – each companion may reroll one skill check at any point 
in this adventure.
Kinstrife and Dark Tidings
Beorn – in the form of a bear – walks near the company. They 
might glimpse the shadow of a tremendous bear watching 
over their camp at night, or find signs that some of the bandits 
pursuing them met with a gory end. Beorn’s protection 
ensures that the company have a +1 bonus to their Arrival 
roll. However, the chieftain avoids directs contact with the 
player characters on the journey – he prefers solitude in his 
bear shape.
Journey Event Table Entry 12
155
2+

--- PAGE 156 ---
Those Who Tarry No Longer
Irimë is powerful and ancient beyond the reckoning of mortal 
Men. Her memories are long and deep and, though intangible, 
hold great power. As the Company take their rest, she begins to 
speak of one such memory, a momentous occurrence from an 
Age long since past. Companions have the choice to listen or to 
absent themselves from the ensuing event.
 
Such is the power and allure of Irimë that any Player-Hero 
listening will find themselves drawn into this tale, witnessing it 
as if they were actually there. To see such sights will be a huge 
challenge and may leave the witness feeling utterly drained. 
Conversely it has the potential to grant huge insight and 
wisdom.
 
Irimë remembers a conversation long ago with Lord Elrond in 
Rivendell, when it was but newly built. She recalls how amid 
the singing and feasting they engaged in a lively conversation 
about the fate of the world.
 
Companions should now make a Charisma (Persuasion) 
check at the DC of the journey to test their ability to hold their 
own in the conversation as Irimë relates these ancient events.
 
If the check is passed, they are filled with hope as Irimë 
remembers a younger, brighter time. This grants them 
Advantage on the initial rolls on their next encounter, and will 
also bestow a +1 bonus to their Arrival roll.
 
If the check is failed, then Irimë’s memories are soured, and 
she recalls a bitter argument when Elrond expressed his 
darkest fears for the future.
If the check is failed by 5 or more, then Irimë’s reminiscences 
have also lit a beacon for all servants of the Shadow, who 
begin to converge on the camp from miles around, the first 
large band of goblins arriving within moments. The company 
must immediately make a Corruption check to avoid gaining 
2 points of Shadow, and they must seek to avoid further 
confrontation by each making a DC 13 Dexterity (Stealth) 
check (with a single additional Animal Handling check). if 
the company has horses or pack ponies) to slip away unnoticed 
by the converging orcs, trolls and worse creatures.
 
A Darkness in the Marshes
Suddenly, the company all feel terribly cold, as something icy 
claws at their bones. A shadow passes over them – the Gibbet 
King is on the wind, moving from one corpse to the next. In 
this spirit form, it is invisible and immaterial, existing only as 
a shade of horror. Still, the feeling of terror and oppressive evil 
is unmistakable. All characters must immediately make a DC 
14 Wisdom saving throw to avoid gaining 2 points of Shadow.
 
The Crossings of Celduin
Gandalf the Grey left Dale before the company did. The Wizard 
is on his own errand – Radagast has warned him of the threat 
posed by the Gibbet King, and he intends to confront the spirit 
when the time is right. He urges the company to travel onto 
Celduin as swiftly as they can, and hold the Crossings for as 
long as they can. “I will come as soon as I can,” he promises, 
“but all roads go awry this day.” The promise of a Wizard 
carries great weight – if all hope seems lost in the Battle of the 
Crossing, Gandalf might arrive in the nick of time to save the 
company.
 
The Watch on the Heath
Suddenly, the company are in the grip of biting cold, and 
the frozen wind seems to take on a dreadful voice, howling 
incomprehensible imprecations. A shadow passes over them – 
the Gibbet King is abroad, exerting his will across the Waste. In 
this spirit form, it is invisible and immaterial, existing only as 
a shade of horror. Still, the feeling of terror and oppressive evil 
is unmistakable. All characters must immediately make a DC 
15 Wisdom saving throw to avoid gaining 1 point of Shadow.
156

--- PAGE 157 ---
157
Index
- index -
Appendix	
143
Introduction to the Journey Rules	
143
Journey Event Table Entry 1	
144
Journey Event Table Entry 2	
145
Journey Event Table Entry 3	
146
Journey Event Table Entry 4	
147
Journey Event Table Entry 5	
148
Journey Event Table Entry 6	
149
Journey Event Table Entry 7	
150
Journey Event Table Entry 8	
151
Journey Event Table Entry 9	
152
Journey Event Table Entry 10	
153
Journey Event Table Entry 11	
154
Journey Event Table Entry 12	
155
(The) Crossings of Celduin	
99
Adventuring Phase	
99
Aftermath	
124
Amusements & Contests	
101
Archery	
105
(The Final) Assault – Orcs & Worse Things	 122
(The First) Assault – Orcs and Wargs	
120
(The Second) Assault – Hill -Troll	
120
Bombur the Fat	
103
(On The) Bridge	
119
(Banks of the) Celduin	
119
Celduin	
116
(The) Challenge	
104
Collapsing the Bridge	
118
(The) Coming Foe	
110
(The) Companions held the Crossings of 
Celduin for one Night	
124
The Companions held the Crossings of 
Celduin for two Nights	
124
(The) Companions were Defeated on the
First Night	
124
(If the) Company is Overrun	
124
Conclusions	
112
(Entering the) Contest	
104
(The End of the) Contest	
108
(The) Contests	
104-105
(Arrival in) Dale	
100
(Preparing) Dale	
112
(From) Dale to the Upper Marches	
114
Defeating the Orcs and Wargs	
120
(The) Drunkenstone	
100
(The) Dungeons of Dol Guldur	
103
Eavesdropping	
115
Elstan	 	
103, 107
Elstan Followers	
107
(The) Enemy is Coming!	
117
Expectations	
111
Fighting the Troll-chief	
120
Fighting the Spirit with Fire	
123
Fighting the Spirit with Water	
123
Fleeing the Town	
121
Folk at the Gathering	
103
Galia	
	
103
Games of Chance	
101
Gerold	 	
103, 107
(Attacking the) Gibbet King	
123
(The) Gibbet King	
123
(The) Gibbet King Comes	
122
(The) Goblins	
120
Greedy Adventurers	
113
(The) Grey Pilgrim	
102
(Questioning) Harrod	
109
Harrod the Fool	
104
Horse riding	
105
Interaction	
111
Intrigue at the Feast	
108
Inventive Defending	
119
(The) Journey	
113
King Bard’s Command	
113
(If the) King is Defeated	
124
(The) Last Few Heroes	
106
Lockmand	
103
(Chasing) Lockmand	
109
(Interrogating) Lockmand	
110
(Tracking Down) Lockmand	
109
Lockmand’s Chest	
110 
(Fighting) Lockmand’s Guards	
110
(The) Market	
100
(The) Masked Ball	
103
(Playing the) Master	
117
(I am the) Master here!	
118
(The) Master of Celduin	
117
(The) Melee	
106
Motivation	
111
(The) Opening Ceremony	
102
Part Eight – The Last Day	
120
Part Five – The Journey South	
113
Part Four – Raven’s Tidings	
110
Part One – The Gathering of Five Armies	
99
Part Seven – The Battle Begins	
118
Part Six – The Calm Before The Storm	
115
Part Three – An Ill -Made Party	
108
Part Two – A Golden Prize	
104
Planning the Route	
114
Playing the Onslaught	
122
(Curing the) Poison	
109
Poisoned!	
109
Preparations for Battle	
118
Prizes	 	
106
(The) Raven	
121
Riddle-games	
101
(Early) Rounds	
106
(Following) Rounds	
106
(A) Royal Council	
110
Sample Riddles	
101
Scripted Journey Event: A Flock of Crows	
115
Scripted Journey Event: The Raiders	
115
Seeking Help from Allies	
112
Send Explorers	
118
Shot in the Dark	
110
Strength	
106
Stopping the Enemy	
112
Stormcrows	
112
Song-contests	
101
Sounding the Alarm	
114
(A) Thief In The Night	
114
Thus Quoth the Raven	
122
(The) Tollgate	
118
(The) Tollhouse	
119
(The) Town	
116, 119
(The) Town of Celduin	
112
Train Combatants	
118
Treachery in the Dark	
108
(The) Ungracious Host	
108
(The) Upper Marches	
114
(From the) Upper Marches to the Bridge	
115
Voices in the Dark	
122
(The) Wounded Warrior	
121
(A) Darkness in the Marshes	
77
Adventuring Phase	
77
Alternative Routes	
82
(Up the) Anduin	
82
(The) Assassins	
98
Banna	 	
80
Beast Protection	
80
(A) Bitter Morning	
86
Burglary	
93
Caught in the Open	
96
(The) Chain of Thangorodrim	
95
Climbing down the Rock	
95
Climbing the Cliffs	
93
(The) Conversation	
94
Crossing the Marshes	
93
Discovered!	
94
Distance of the Pursuers	
96
(Searching for the) Dwimmerhorn	
88
(The) Dwimmerhorn	
91
(The) Enemy	
89
Epilogue – The Shadow of the Future	
98
Expectations	
78, 85
Falling	 	
93
Fellowship Phase	
98
(After the) Fight	
90
Fight Events	
89
(The) Fight in the Marshes	
89
Following On...	
77
Ghor the Despoiler	
92
(Into the) Gladden Fields	
88
(The) Gladden Fields	
82
(From the) Great River to Mountain Hall	
82
(Arrival at the) Hall	
97
(Assassins in the) Hall	
97
Hartfast & the Dwarves	
86
(Meeting) Hartfast son of Hartmut	
85
(The) Horn of Warning	
87
Hunted!	
96
Interaction	
78, 85
(The) Journey	
81, 87, 95
Lockmand	
93
(Travelling with) Magric	
87
Magric the Trapper	
87

--- PAGE 158 ---
Wilderland Adventures
158
(The) Mine	
84
Mirkwood Cordial	
80
Motivation	
78, 85
Mountain Hall	
83
(Night at) Mountain Hall	
96
(From) Mountain Hall to the Gladden River	 88
Overtaken!	
96
Other Routes?	
96
Part Five – Slave & Hunters	
89
Part Four – The Passage of the Marshes	
87
Part One – Wizard’s Counsel	
78
Part Seven – Fly, You Fools!	
95
Part Six – By Secret Ways	
90
Part Three – The Harrowed Hall	
82
Part Two – Across the River	
80
Planning the Route	
81, 88
Radagast’s Magical Boons	
79
(Leaving) Rhosgobel	
80
(From) Rhosgobel to the Great River	
82
(A) Rude Awakening	
86
(The) Sanctum	
94
(The) Shadow in the Temple	
93
Sneaking Around the Fortress	
93
Spell of Concealment	
80
Storm Bag 	
80
(Entering the) Temple	
93
(Exploring the) Temple	
94
Travel Blessing	
80
Treachery! 	
97
Waking in the Night	
98
(The) Wizard	
78
Don’t Leave the Path	
7
Adventuring Phase	
7
(The) Ancient Wood	
17
(Following) Baldor	
13
(Playing) Baldor	
8
(Saving) Baldor	
8
Baldor’s Error	
12
Baldor’s History	
9
Baldor’s Offer	
9
(Playing) Belgo	
8
Belgo’s Talisman	
12
(The) Castle	
13
Climbing the Wall	
14
(The) Creature Attacks	
19
Doomed!	
15
Dreams and Intuitions	
18
(Guests of the) Elves	
10
Epilogue – The Forest Gate	
19
Escape!		
15
Expectations	
11, 16
Fellowship Phase	
19
Fighting the Thugs	
9
Gathering Darkness	
15
(Encountering the) Hermit	
16
(Playing the) Hermit	
16
(The) Hermit’s Tree	
16
Interaction	
11, 17
Intimidating the Thugs	
9
Introduction	
11, 16
(The) Journey	
9, 11
(The) Journey Begins	
11
Loading the Ponies	
11 
March of the Spiders	
14
Motivation	
10, 16
(The) Old Well	
18
Outcomes	
11, 17
Part Five – The Hermit	
15
Part Four – Castle of the Spiders	
12
Part One – Where Rivers Run With Gold	
7
Part Six – The Well in the Wood	
17
Part Three – The Long Road	
11
Part Two – The Edge of the Woodland Realm	10
(The) Thing in the Well	
19
(The) Thunderstorm	
15
(The) Tower Stairs	
14
Under the Spell	
18
Introduction	
4
Experience Awards	
6
(The) Gibbet King	
5
How to Use this Guide	
6
(The) Passing of Years	
6
Kinstrife & Dark Tidings	
37
Adventuring Phase	
37
After the Battle	
56
Aftermath	
58
Arrangements for the Night	
42
(The) Bandit Camp	
51
Barred From The Village	
45
Battle is Joined!	
56
(The) Battleground	
56
(Encountering) Beorn	
40
Beorn! Beorn!	
56
Beyond the Gate	
39
Brunhild & Helmgut	
57
Brunhild’s Crime	
48
Clouds Gather	
55
Dinner	 	
41
Event Suggestions	
44
Exchange of News	
41
Expectations	
40, 45, 54, 57
Faron, the Trapper	
53
Fellowship Phase	
58
Forced March	
55
Foreshadowing	
38
(The) Foster-Father’s Tale	
46
(The) Funeral	
43
(Across the) Great River	
48
Ignoring the Dead	
39
In the Fray	
56
Interaction	
40, 45, 54, 58
Introduction	
40, 45, 58
(The) Journey	
55
Judgement	
58
Motivation	
40, 45, 54, 57
(The) Next Day	
42
(A) Nightly Adventure	
42
Oderic	 	
54, 57
(Capturing) Oderic 	
54
(Speaking to) Oderic	
54
(Watching for) Oderic	
51
Oderic guides the outlaws 
against the Beornings	
56
(Playing) Oderic Kinslayer	
52
Oderic is a prisoner	
56
Oderic tricks the outlaws	
56
Oderic’s Fate	
55
Outlaw Archers	
51
Outlaw Patrols	
51
Outlaw Warriors	
51
(The) Outlaw Watchman	
53
Planning the Route	
44
Searching for the Fugitive	
44
Sending Word to Beorn	
52
Telling the Tale	
41
Part Eight – Grim Tidings	
55
Part Five – The Chase Continued	
48
Part Four – Kinstrife	
44
Part Nine – Judgement at the Carrock	
57
Part One – A Funeral Boat	
38
Part Seven – The Outlaw Boy	
52
Part Six – Cruel, Ill -Favoured men	
49
Part Three – The Chase	
43
Part Two – Beorn’s Hall	
39
Planning the Route	
48
Signs of a Host	
49
Signs of the Prisoner	
48
Sorrows Old & New	
46
Success or Failure	
55
(The) Trial	
57
(Encountering the) Village Elders	
44
Valter and the Spirit	
50
Valter the Bloody	
49-50, 57
Village Stories and Rumours	
46
(The) Widow’s Tale	
47
Of Leaves & Stewed Hobbit	
20
Adventuring Phase	
20
(The) Adventure Begins	
22
Alarums!	
33
Battle!	 	
30
Battle Events	
30
(Andy) Blackthorn	
29
(Bill the) Bowman	
29
(Agatha) Brandybuck	
22
(Dindy) Brandybuck	
22
(The Hobbit Dinodas) Brandybuck	
28
(Dody) Brandybuck	
22
(The) Caravan	
28
Cave Spiders	
32
(The) Chain	
34
(The) Challenge	
29
Cooking Time!	
34
Darkness and Light	
32
(Rescuing) Dinodas	
36
Dodinas’ Plea	
23
Dread Ubhurz	
30

--- PAGE 159 ---
159
Index
(From The) Easterly Inn to The Old Ford	
25
(The) Enemy	
29
Epilogue – Back To The Inn	
36
Escape!		
36
Event Suggestions	
32
Expectations	
23
Falling Rocks	
32
(The) Feast	
35
Fellowship Phase	
36
Folk of the Inn	
22
Frier		
	
22
Getting Stuck	
32
(The) Goblin Hall	
34
Goblin Sentinels	
33
Goblin Skirmishers	
30
(The) Goblin Song	
31
(The) Goblin Tactics	
29
(A) Homely House	
21
Interaction	
24
Introduction	
23
(The) Journey	
25
(The) Journey Through the Tunnels	
32
Journeys in the Dark	
32
(Averting the) Kidnapping	
31
(The) Kidnapping	
30
Letters of Introduction	
24
(Tom) Lumpyface	
29
(Iwgar) Longleg	
28
Motivation	
23
(The) Mountain Ruins	
26
(The) Night-Wight	
26-27
(From The) Old Ford to The High Pass	
25
Outcomes	
24
Part Five – Prisoner of the Gobli ns	
33
Part Four – Into The Mountains	
31
Part One – The Easterly Inn	
20
Part Three – Battle at the Ringfort	
27
Part Two – Searching the High Pass	
25
(A) Rain of Arrows	
30
(The) Ringfort	
27
Rumours at the Inn	
23
Sabotaging The Feast	
36
Searching For The Caravan	
27
Shadrach	
22
Stealing The Key	
36
Surprise Attack	
36
Tactics	 	
29
Tap-Tap-Tap	
32
Their Plight	
29
Their Tale	
29 
Treacherous Footing	
33
(The) Tunnels 	
31
Victory!	
30
Wandering Troll	
32
(The) Wolves Beyond The Walls	
30
Those Who Tarry No Longer	
59
Adventuring Phase	
59
(Fate of the) Alderman	
70
(Return of the) Alderman	
70
Aldor’s Sickness	
73
(The) Alehouse	
69
(The) Assault	
64
Awakening	
74
(The) Battle of the Hill top	
65
Blessed by the First-born	
76
(A) Chance Meeting	
60
Conclusions	
61
(A) Darkness in the Present	
63
Departure	
67
(The) Dream Begins	
68
(The) Eagles	
65
(The) Eagles are Coming! 	
66
Easterling Warriors	
72
Escape?	
73
Expectations	
61, 66
Fellowship Phase	
76
(The) Final Challenge	
75
Flight to the Pass	
64
(Healing) Gaerthor	
67
Galion	 	
60
Geb the Servant	
73
Geb the Trickster	
74
Geb’s Betrayal	
73
(A) Glimpse of Irimë	
72
(Saving) Haleth	
74
Haleth’s Death	
74
(Rumours in the) Inn	
70
(Siege of the) Inn	
71
(The) Inn	
69
Interaction	
61, 66
Introduction	
61
(Playing) Irimë	
63
Irimë failed	
76
(If) Irimë fails	
75
Irimë succeeded	
76
(If) Irimë succeeds	
75
Irimë’s Dream	
68
(The) Journey Home	
76
(The) Journey South	
72
(The) Lady’s Request	
60
(The) Long Memory of the First-born	
59
Motivation	
66
(The) Orcs Assemble	
64
Part Five – The Ruins	
67
Part Four – A Guest of Eagles	
66
Part One – The Borders of the Forest	
60
Part Seven – Dawn in the West	
75
Part Six – Dark Dreams	
72
Part Three – The Hill of Woe	
64
Part Two – Weary of the World	
62
(The) Shadow of the Past	
62
Slain Companions	
71
Set between Worlds	
68
(The) Spirit	
74
Supper by the Forest Eaves	
62
Those Who Kneel	
73
Twilight	
67
Undead Warriors	
71
(The) Watch on the Heath	
125
Adventuring Phase	
125
(The) Battle of the Great Hall	
140
Battling the Orcs	
141
(The) Chain of Thangorodrim	
141
(Using the) Chain of Thangorodrim	
142
(Entering the) Chamber of Winds	
140
Climbing the Mountain	
137
Conclusions	
128, 131, 136
Corruption Checks	
129, 132
(A) Dangerous Conversation	
134
(A) Date with Death	
135
Dropping the Stone Block	
140
Epilogue - A Renewed Spring of Joy	
142
(To) Erebor	
126
(From) Erebor to the Grey Mountains	
129
Expectations	
126, 130, 135
Fellowship Phase	
142
(A) Forgotten Threat	
134
Former Slave	
136
(Defeating the) Gibbet King	
142
(The) Howl of the Mountain	
140
Interaction	
126, 131, 136
Introduction	
131, 135
(The) Journey	
129
(An Audience with) King Dáin	
126
(The) Last Debate	
141
(The) Last Night	
129
(We Captured) Lockmand!	
127
Motivation	
126, 130, 135
(The) Old Master	
134
Part Five – The Scourge of the North	
134
Part Four – Zirakinbar	
133
Part One – Council Under The Mountain	
125
Part Six – The Watchtower	
137
Part Three – The Grey Mountains	
132
Part Two – Across the Trackless Waste	
129
(The) Power of a Dragon	
141
(A) Precious Lure, an Iron Trap	
134
(Playing) Raenar	
135
Raenar the great Cold-drake	
136-137, 141
Ruining His Plans	
142
Scent of Prey	
132
Searching for Signs	
130
(A) Secret Summoning	
125
Secrets of Mazarbul	
128
Smaug is Dead	
136
(The) Snow-Troll Wakes	
132
(The) Snow-Trolls	
132-133
Spellbound	
136
(Exploring the) Watchtower	
137
(The) Watchtower	
138
What should the Companions Do?	
134
Witherfinger	
130
(Playing) Witherfinger	
130
Witherfinger’s Fear	
132

--- PAGE 160 ---
OPEN GAME LICENSE Version 1.0a 
The following text is the property of Wizards of the Coast, Inc. and 
is Copyright 2000 Wizards of the Coast, Inc ("Wizards"). All Rights 
Reserved. 1. Definitions: (a)"Contributors" means the 
copyright and/or trademark owners who have contributed Open 
Game Content; (b)"Derivative Material" means copyrighted 
material including derivative works and translations (including 
into other computer languages), potation, modification, 
correction, addition, extension, upgrade, improvement, 
compilation, abridgment or other form in which an existing work 
may be recast, transformed or adapted; (c) "Distribute" means to 
reproduce, license, rent, lease, sell, broadcast, publicly display, 
transmit or otherwise distribute; (d)"Open Game Content" means 
the game mechanic and includes the methods, procedures, 
processes and routines to the extent such content does not embody 
the Product Identity and is an enhancement over the prior art and 
any additional content clearly identified as Open Game Content 
by the Contributor, and means any work covered by this License, 
including translations and derivative works under copyright law, 
but specifically excludes Product Identity. (e) "Product Identity" 
means product and product line names, logos and identifying 
marks including trade dress; artifacts; creatures characters; 
stories, storylines, plots, thematic elements, dialogue, incidents, 
language, artwork, symbols, designs, depictions, likenesses, 
formats, poses, concepts, themes and graphic, photographic and 
other visual or audio representations; names and descriptions of 
characters, spells, enchantments, personalities, teams, personas, 
likenesses and special abilities; places, locations, environments, 
creatures, equipment, magical or supernatural abilities or effects, 
logos, symbols, or graphic designs; and any other trademark or 
registered trademark clearly identified as Product identity by the 
owner of the Product Identity, and which specifically excludes the 
Open Game Content; (f) "Trademark" means the logos, names, 
mark, sign, motto, designs that are  used by a Contributor to 
identify itself or its products or the associated products contributed 
to the Open Game License by the Contributor (g) "Use", "Used" 
or "Using" means to use, Distribute, copy, edit, format, modify, 
translate and otherwise create Derivative Material of Open Game 
Content. (h) "You" or "Your" means the licensee in terms of this 
agreement. 
2. The License: This License applies to any Open Game Content 
that contains a notice indicating that the Open Game Content 
may only be Used under and in terms of this License. You must 
affix such a notice to any Open Game Content that you Use. No 
terms may be added to or subtracted from this License except 
as described by the License itself. No other terms or conditions 
may be applied to any Open Game Content distributed using this 
License. 
3.Offer and Acceptance: By Using the Open Game Content You 
indicate Your acceptance of the terms of this License. 
4. Grant and Consideration: In consideration for agreeing to use 
this License, the Contributors grant You a perpetual, worldwide, 
royalty free, non exclusive license with the exact terms of this 
License to Use, the Open Game Content. 
5.Representation of Authority to Contribute: If You are 
contributing original material as Open Game Content, You 
represent that Your Contributions are Your original creation and/
or You have sufficient rights to grant the rights conveyed by this 
License. 
6.Notice of License Copyright: You must update the COPYRIGHT 
NOTICE portion of this License to include the exact text of 
the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any Open Game Content You are 
copying, modifying or distributing, and You must add the title, 
the copyright date, and the copyright holder's name to the 
COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any original Open Game Content you 
Distribute. 
7. Use of Product Identity: You agree not to Use any Product 
Identity, including as an indication as to compatibility, except as 
expressly licensed in another, independent Agreement with the 
owner of each element of that Product Identity. You agree not to 
indicate compatibility or co adaptability with any Trademark 
or Registered Trademark in conjunction with a work containing 
Open Game Content except as expressly licensed in another, 
independent Agreement with the owner of such Trademark or 
Registered Trademark. The use of any Product Identity in Open 
Game Content does not constitute a challenge to the ownership 
of that Product Identity. The owner of any Product Identity used in 
Open Game Content shall retain all rights, title and interest in and 
to that Product Identity. 
8. Identification: If you distribute Open Game Content You 
must clearly indicate which portions of the work that you are 
distributing are Open Game Content. 
9. Updating the License: Wizards or its designated Agents may 
publish updated versions of this License. You may use any 
authorized version of this License to copy, modify and distribute 
any Open Game Content originally distributed under any version 
of this License. 
10. Copy of this License: You MUST include a copy of this License 
with every copy of the Open Game Content You Distribute. 
11. Use of Contributor Credits: You may not market or advertise 
the Open Game Content using the name of any Contributor unless 
You have written permission from the Contributor to do so. 
12. Inability to Comply: If it is impossible for You to comply 
with any of the terms of this License with respect to some or 
all of the Open Game Content due to statute, judicial order, or 
governmental regulation then You may not Use any Open Game 
Material so affected. 
13. Termination: This License will terminate automatically if You 
fail to comply with all terms herein and fail to cure such breach 
within 30 days of becoming aware of the breach. All sublicenses 
shall survive the termination of this License. 
14. Reformation: If any provision of this License is held to be 
unenforceable, such provision shall be reformed only to the extent 
necessary to make it enforceable. 
15. COPYRIGHT NOTICE 
Open Game License v 1.0a Copyright 2000, Wizards of the Coast, 
LLC. 
System Reference Document 5.1 Copyright 2016, Wizards of the 
Coast, Inc.; Authors Mike Mearls, Jeremy Crawford, Chris Perkins, 
Rodney Thompson, Peter Lee, James Wyatt, Robert J. Schwalb, 
Bruce R. Cordell, Chris Sims, and Steve Townshend, based on 
original material by E. Gary Gygax and Dave Arneson. 
END OF LICENSE