--- PAGE 1 ---
EDITED BY SCOTT GABLE
EDITED BY SCOTT GABLE
INTO THE WILDS
INTO THE WILDS

--- PAGE 3 ---
TM
Into the Wilds

--- PAGE 5 ---
Design: Lou Anders, Celeste Conowitch, Victoria Jaczko, Jeff Lee, Sarah Madsen, 
Nick Muzekari, Carlos Ovalle, Holly Ovalle, Jon Sawatsky, Mike Welham
Additional Design: Ben McFarland
Editing: Scott Gable
Additional Editing: Meagan Maricle, Blaine McNutt
Art Director & Graphic Design: Marc Radle
Layout: Marc Radle
Additional Layout: Anne Gregersen, Rick Kunz, Amber Seger
Cover Art: Allen Morris
Interior Art: Pedro Potier, M. Wayne Miller, Dean Spencer, Phil Stone, Karl Waller
Cartography: Dyson Logos  
supported on patreon | www.dysonlogos.com
Publisher: Wolfgang Baur
Kobold Press, Midgard, Open Design, and their associated logos are trademarks of Open Design.
Product Identity: The following items are hereby identified as Product Identity, as defined in the Open Game Licenseversion 1.0a, 
Section 1(e), and are not Open Content: All trademarks, registered trademarks, proper names (characters, place names, new deities, 
etc.), dialogue, plots, story elements, locations, characters, artwork, sidebars, and trade dress. (Elements that have previously been 
designated as Open Game Content are not included in this declaration.)
Open Game Content:  The Open Content in this adventure includes the vomiting slime mold trap; the bramble creature template; 
the animated book, ash troll, asp vine, cheshirian,  hammer holly, infernal centaur, mirror image, spectral memory, trollkin bandit, 
and  Weft of Shadows monster stat blocks; the call shadow mastiff, putrescent faerie circle, pyroclastic burst, and summon ancestor 
spells; the vril force glove item; and the amulet of memory, bag of bramble creatures, green mantle, phase mirror, rod of rampancy, 
sleeping sand, thirsty scalpel, and warrior’s eye helm magic items. 
No other portion of this work may be reproduced in any form without permission.
© 2022 Open Design LLC
www.koboldpress.com
CREDITS

--- PAGE 6 ---
TABLE OF CONTENTS
The Light of Memoria
by Victoria Jaczko.................................................... 8
For 1st-Level characters. A gateway leads to the 
Oubliette, a pocket dimension filled with undead and 
the fragmented memories of the cult of Mnemosyne.
Wrath of the Bramble King 
by Mike Welham...................................................  19
For 2nd-Level Characters. The shadows stir up 
trouble, pitting the Bramble King against local 
villagers, all for the sake of a mysterious artifact.
The Empty Village 
by Mike Welham ..................................................  25
For 2nd-Level Characters. A strange shadow 
creature’s theft of an entire village—for the villagers’ 
own safety—leads to disaster.
The Bagiennik Game
by Jon Sawatsky ....................................................  30
For 3rd-Level Characters. It’s a race against time 
in the swamp to rescue a child from a foolish game 
turned deadly.
The White Worg Accord 
by Lou Anders ......................................................  34
For 3rd-Level Characters. A dwarf is trying to rebuild 
his lost fortune in a venture that lands him in the 
middle of a bloody conflict between reaver dwarves 
and trollkin.
Against the Dust Goblin Oracle 
by Jeff Lee ..............................................................  44
For 4th-Level Characters. Dust goblins are raiding 
nearby communities for the oddest of things, creating 
havoc and confusion. 
A Life in the Family
by Victoria Jaczko ................................................  52
For 5th-Level Characters. A family estate in the White 
Forest—belonging to a descendant of survivors of the 
cult of Mnemosyne—is haunted by their ancestors 
and overrun by undead. (This adventure continues 
with themes introduced in The Light of Memoria.)
Warlock Lairs: Into the Wilds brings you hand-picked selections from our Warlock Lairs. For 
this collection, we’ve chosen a wilderness theme with a strong emphasis on the shenanigans of 
fey and cultists. The focus is on Tier 2 play (so adventures for 5th–10th-level characters) but 
with enough lower‑level adventures that those interested can create a mini-campaign from this 
collection, from 1st level to 10th level. 
	
With four brand-new adventures, unique to this collection, we present you a total of nineteen 
adventures for your game, spanning half of Midgard and featuring the Western Wastes, Magdar 
Kingdom, Arbonesse and Margreve Forests, Grand Duchy of Dornig, Rothenian Plain, and 
Northlands—with forays into the Summer Lands and the Shadow Realm!

--- PAGE 7 ---
Raid on the Savage Oasis 
by Jeff Lee ..............................................................  63
For 5th-Level Characters. The wastes during a Mad 
Spring are a riot of growth, and a cult has taken 
advantage of the harvest in a strange, secluded garden 
of antiquity, the Savage Oasis. (This adventure 
continues with themes introduced in Against the 
Dust Goblin Oracle.)
Beneath the Witchwillow 
by Sarah Madsen ..................................................  73
For 5th-Level Characters. A murder mystery brings 
the feud between two families to a boil while a 
distraught young woman finds herself in a fey lord’s 
nearby—and crumbling—extradimensional demesne. 
Terror in Altbach 
by Nick Muzekari .................................................  84
For 5th-Level Characters. A would-be protector has 
been kidnapping the town’s children, hiding them 
away in the hills—fueling its own delusions.  
Pride of the Mushroom Queen 
by Mike Welham ..................................................  93
For 6th-Level Characters. The shadows are up to 
more trouble as they push the self-styled Mushroom 
Queen to terrorize the elves of the Arbonesse with 
her fungal minions. (This adventure continues with 
themes introduced in Wrath of the Bramble King.)
Run Like Hell
by Mike Welham ..................................................  99
For 6th-Level Characters. Gruesome murders by the 
infernal gnomes of Niemheim pit human against 
centaur on the Rothenian Plain.
Ill-Met by Moonlight 
by Carlos Ovalle and Holly Ovalle .................. 104
For 7th-Level Characters. A rogue shadow fey 
performs twisted experiments on kidnapped mortals 
at her secluded watchhouse in the Shadow Realm—
thanks to a nearby shadow road.
Out of Phase
by Celeste Conowitch ........................................ 108
For 7th-Level Characters. Allies of the Moonlit King 
attempt to tear open a gate to the Shadow Realm, 
unleashing chaos on an unsuspecting populace.
The Wilding Call 
by Mike Welham ................................................ 117
For 7th-Level Characters. A doomsday cult of 
werewolves is terrorizing the Northlands, and some 
brave souls need to take an experimental serum—
transforming them into werewolves for a time—and 
infiltrate the cult.
Moonlight Sonata
by Celeste Conowitch ........................................ 123
For 8th-Level Characters. Alquam, Demon Lord of 
Night, has set in motion an intricate trap that will 
trick some nosey adventurers into rescuing a shard 
of the Moonlit King. (This adventure continues with 
themes introduced in Out of Phase.)
Race for the Shining Dawn 
by Jeff Lee ............................................................ 135
For 8th-Level Characters. Fueled by spite, a madman 
attempts to free one of the Dread Walkers from its 
temporal stasis.
The Undying Flame 
by Mike Welham ................................................ 144
For 9th-Level Characters. Cultists devoted to 
Alsikaya, the Screeching Mother of Volcanoes, are 
attracting runaways to their sanctuary of Havenhearth 
and building toward a doomsday event that threatens 
all the Northlands.
The Shadow’s Envy 
by Mike Welham ................................................ 155
For 10th-Level Characters. The Weft of Shadow is 
making its final move on the Summer Lands, and 
the elves are in dire need of help. (This adventure 
continues with themes introduced in Wrath of the 
Bramble King and Pride of the Mushroom Queen.)
Appendix ......................................................... 161

--- PAGE 8 ---
aatxe (CC)
gorgon or young brass dragon
alnaar demon (CC)
fire giant or glabrezu
bagiennik (TOB)
green hag or merrow (increasing hp by 50%) or troll (decreasing hp by 50%)
battle mage (CC)
ghost or mage (removing 5th-level spells) or red dragon wyrmling
bearfolk chieftain (CC)
gladiator or 2 veterans
beggar ghoul (TOB)
ghoul
beli (TOB)
ettercap or 2–3 ice mephits
blood imp (TOB2)
dust mephit
bloom hydra (TOB2)
shambling mound (adding climb 30 ft.)
boloti (TOB)
giant toad or 2–3 steam mephits
brimstone locusthound (TOB2)
hell hound
bucca (TOB)
dust mephit
cavelight moss (TOB)
shambling mound (decreasing hp by 50%)
centaur chieftain (CC)
gladiator (changing speed to 50 ft.) or 2–3 centaurs
child of the briar (TOB)
dryad or 2–3 violet funguses
chupacabra (CC)
cockatrice or lizardfolk
death butterfly swarm (TOB)
2 swarms of poisonous snakes (adding fly 40 ft.)
deathwisp (TOB)
oni or wraith and specter
dogmole (TOB)
brown bear or giant toad
dorreq (TOB)
2 ankhegs (decreasing hp by 25%) or black pudding
dust goblin (TOB)
goblin
eala (TOB)
gargoyle or 2–3 magma mephits
elder shadow drake (TOB)
wraith and specter or young black dragon
execrable shrub (CC)
gray ooze or 1–2 violet funguses
falsifier fog (TOB2)
ghost
fane spirit (TOB2)
ghost
fang of the great wolf (worg) (CC)
winter wolf
far darrig (TOB)
druid and giant centipede or green hag
fear smith (TOB)
aboleth or guardian naga
fey drake (CC)
invisible stalker or mage or young brass dragon
forest drake (CC)
green dragon wyrmling
fraughashar (TOB)
ice mephit
gloomflower (CC)
green hag or phase spider
gnarljak (TOB)
6 animated armors or shield guardian (decreasing hp by 50%)
gnomish knife cultist (CC)
barbed devil or 2–3 cult fanatics 
goat-man (TOB)
minotaur
herald of darkness (TOB)
oni or young black dragon
knight ab-errant (TOB2)
gladiator or hill giant
kobold alchemist (TOB)
cult fanatic or druid
lambent witchfyre (TOB2)
3 will-o’-wisps
lunar devil (TOB)
chain devil
New monsters and items and other wonders can be found in the Appendix for easy referencing, but 
this collection does pull heavily from our various monster books: Tome of Beasts (TOB), Creature 
Codex (CC), and Tome of Beasts 2 (TOB2). For those monsters, we’ve included an equivalency below 
with alternative suggestions, so you can more easily replace a monster from a book you don’t possess 
with a monster from the core game.

--- PAGE 9 ---
mad piper (TOB2)
gibbering mouther or priest
mindrot thrall (TOB)
mummy or 6 zombies
mineral ooze (TOB2)
basilisk or green hag or ochre jelly (increasing hp by 50%)
mold zombie (CC)
mummy or 6 zombies
monolith champion (TOB)
clay golem (decreasing hp by 25%) or hezrou or 2 earth elementals 
(decreasing hp by 50%)
moon drake (CC)
young white dragon (decreasing hp by 50%)
Moonlit King (TOB)
archmage (increasing hp by 100%)
moss lurker (TOB)
bugbear or duergar
nightgarm (TOB)
oni (decreasing hp by 25%)
owl harpy (TOB)
4–5 harpies or night hag
putrid haunt (TOB)
ghast
qwyllion (TOB)
spirit naga or young green dragon
ravenfolk scout (TOB)
scout
ravenfolk warrior (TOB)
veteran
razorleaf (CC)
shambling mound
roachling lord (TOB)
cult fanatic
roggenwolf (CC)
giant boar or saber-toothed tiger or wererat
rum gremlin (TOB)
deep gnome or thug
satarre destroyer (TOB2)
bearded devil or minotaur or veteran
satarre mystic (TOB2)
bearded devil or green hag
selang (TOB)
ghost or succubus/incubus
shadow beast (TOB)
wraith and specter or young black dragon
shadow fey (TOB)
drow
shadow fey duelist (TOB)
drider or gladiator (increasing hp by 25%) 
shadow fey enchantress (TOB)
mage (increasing hp by 25%) or oni 
shadow fey guardian (TOB)
ettin or lamia
shadow fey poisoner (CC)
assassin and 2 spies or horned devil
shadow ooze (CC)
basilisk or black pudding (decreasing hp by 25%) or phase spider
shadow river lord (CC)
bone devil
shadow skeleton (CC)
cult fanatic or minotaur skeleton or will-o’-wisp
shroud (TOB)
shadow (decreasing hp by 50%)
snow cat (CC)
elk or panther or wolf
snow terror (TOB2)
chain devil or frost giant
spawn of Akyishigal (TOB)
barbed devil or salamander
spree demon (CC)
barbed devil or salamander
stryx (TOB)
blood hawk or stirge
tar ghoul (CC)
black pudding or ghost 
trollkin raider (TOB2)
bugbear or spy
vættir (TOB)
ghost
void cultist (CC)
thug or gnoll or hobgoblin
void speaker (CC)
mage (increasing hp by 25%) or oni
voidling (TOB)
horned devil
wasteland dragon wyrmling (CC)
blue dragon wyrmling
wolf spirits swarm (TOB)
ghost (increasing hp by 100%) or young white dragon
zeitgeist (TOB2)
mage or vrock

--- PAGE 10 ---
8
THE LIGHT OF MEMORIA
This adventure takes place outside the village of 
Redtower in the White Forest (in the Magdar Kingdom). 
Its abandoned archway and pocket dimension, however, 
can be adapted to any location.
Adventure Background 
Memoria is a forgotten ruin, mostly vanished into the 
lowland bogs north of Redtower. Its obscurity is ironic, 
for once, it was a settlement dedicated to Mnemosyne, 
goddess of memory, who has likewise suffered an 
unhappy fate. Centuries ago, a mysterious cult of benign 
necromancers founded Memoria after fleeing elven 
authority and condemnation in Kammae, settling in 
the White Forest to take advantage of the area’s potent 
ley lines. These necromancers did not defile the dead, 
but rather, they utilized necromancy to interact with 
their ancestors, hoping to create a utopia of peaceful 
co-existence for the living and dead with the past and 
present side-by-side. 
To achieve this vision, the Memorians devised a relic 
called the Light of Memoria to create a bridge to the 
afterlife and light the way for their ancestors’ spirits 
to cross into the mortal world. Avoiding bloodshed, 
the Memorians empowered the relic with communal 
sacrifice of many years of their lives. When at last they 
enacted the ritual, however, something went wrong. 
Instead of their ancestors’ spirits peacefully transitioning, 
they brought forward an army of twisted specters, 
wraiths, and shadows that overwhelmed Memoria.
The surviving Memorians retreated to a nearby 
shadow gate, but the undead followed. To prevent their 
mistakes from endangering others, the Memorians used 
the relic to sever the gate’s connection to the shadow 
roads and sealed the undead—and themselves—in a 
pocket dimension called the Oubliette. Memoria and the 
cult of Mnemosyne who built it fell out of reckoning. The 
dormant gate became an eerie local curiosity, and the 
relic disappeared, buried by the elements.
Recent Events
A week ago, Tymon, an apprentice of Gellert the 
Gruesome, came investigating the archway. Unlike 
previous curious souls, Tymon benefited from a recent 
tree fall uprooting the Light of Memoria. Curious at the 
magic still stored within it, he stumbled his way through 
activating it enough to open the portal to Oubliette, only 
to fall through and drop the relic in surprise. Trapped on 
the other side, he has since fallen to the mercy of a wraith 
called the Forgotten (see Area 10). It has surmounted 
all other undead in the Oubliette, and it intends to 
experiment, as the Memorians did, with Tymon’s living 
energy in order to open the portal again. The Forgotten 
has been trapped in a nightmare memory realm haunted 
by the madness and grief of the Memorians, and it craves 
escape to torment the living again.
Adventure Hooks
Here are some ways to bring the PCs to the arch and 
engage them in braving the Oubliette:
•	 The confluence of ley lines in the area attracts magical 
energy, and efforts from the Forgotten to force open 
the Oubliette increase the volatility of these ley lines. A 
magical mishap while teleporting or tapping into a ley 
line elsewhere in Midgard can drop the PCs nearby.
•	 The PCs could be drawn to the area to investigate the 
legendary dungeon known as the Scarlet Citadel, and 
the environs have several points of interest to discover, 
including the village of Redtower (see Warlock 20: 
Redtower) and the archway of the Memorians.
•	 PCs already familiar with Redtower may have met 
Gabe in town. He suffered nightmares after spending 
the night in the “lifeless clearing,” prompting the PCs 
to investigate further. 
Lifeless Clearing
The clearing containing the arch is in the northern 
outskirts of the White Forest in southern Magdar, 
near the village of Redtower. It is a barren break in 
the surrounding tree line with no visible cause for 
its lifelessness. Plants don’t grow in the clearing, and 
animals, even insects, won’t venture into it. Mounts or 
animal companions require a successful DC 10 Wisdom 
(Animal Handling) check to bring into the clearing 
without shying. 
For 1st-Level characters

--- PAGE 11 ---
9
Nightmares. PCs sleeping in the clearing have dreams 
of shadowy labyrinths and being hunted by unseen 
creatures in a dark forest. Each PC that sleeps in the 
clearing must succeed on a DC 10 Wisdom saving throw 
upon awakening or suffer one level of exhaustion.
Creatures. The first time the PCs arrive in the clearing, 
they discover four bandits, investigating the arch. One 
of them, Dameka, stands apart, holding the Light of 
Memoria and complaining loudly that she can’t read 
it. Dameka and her companions reside in the White 
Forest, preying on adventurers drawn to the Scarlet 
Citadel and occasionally performing odd jobs for 
Gellert the Gruesome. She has never met Gellert and 
works primarily through his intermediaries. One such 
intermediary, Cagoth-ze (see the Hapless Apprentice 
sidebar), sent her in search of Tymon after the young 
apprentice didn’t return from his task. 
If the PCs aren’t immediately apparent or if they 
sneak in closer to listen, Dameka grumbles about a 
“scrawny‑necked apprentice” and wonders aloud why

--- PAGE 12 ---
10
he’d come here, suspecting he’s holding out on them. 
Eventually, she pockets the relic, and the bandits spread 
out, likely flushing out the PCs. If found or if the PCs 
interrupt them, Dameka is relieved for an end to the 
boredom. She leads the attack, gleeful for the potential of 
better loot than Tymon’s leftovers. If Dameka is killed, the 
other bandits flee into the forest, leaving the relic behind.
Treasure. Besides their equipment, the bandits also 
each have 10 gp and 2 days’ trail rations, except Dameka. 
She has the Light of Memoria (see the Light of Memoria 
sidebar), 3 pp, 10 gp, two gems worth 10 gp each, and 3 
days’ rations. A note from Cagoth-ze, directing her to 
find the wayward apprentice, sits in her pocket. 
THE ARCHWAY
The weathered stone arch, a looming structure almost 
as tall as the nearby trees, sits in the center of the lifeless 
clearing, one side sunken deeper into the soil than the 
other. A withered black vine wrapped around it is cold 
and unyielding to the touch, as though melded with the 
stone itself. Partial engravings line the arch, too old and 
worn to decipher.
Call from the Other Side. At sunset, midnight, and 
dawn—when shadows are longest and deepest—the 
archway flickers, its faded engravings emitting a soft blue 
glow. Short bursts of electricity zig-zag across the arch’s 
opening, and for a brief moment, a glimpse into the 
Oubliette reveals itself. It shows a young, anguished man 
in tattered robes bound in shadowy chains. An ethereal 
voice calls for help before the glow surges and fades, 
ending the image. 
This scene repeats again each following sunset, 
midnight, and sunrise, but the man, Tymon, does not 
look or sound identical each time. Every appearance, he 
is a little wearier and more desperate. 
Traversing the portal in these split-second glimpses 
is impossible. These moments merely alert the PCs to 
Tymon’s plight and serve as a warning that something on 
the other side is slowly learning how to escape. 
Opening the Portal. Opening the way to the Oubliette 
is impossible without the Light of Memoria. The PCs 
must charge it with some of their life energy to open a 
portal in the archway since Tymon’s bumbling drained 
what little magic the relic still held. If the PCs have 
LIGHT OF MEMORIA
The Light of Memoria is a relic created by the 
Memorians as the magical focus of a ritual that 
permanently bridged their settlement with the afterlife 
in an attempt at peaceful coexistence with their 
ancestors. The relic is powered by the voluntary sacrifice 
of vital spirit energy. 
The relic is approximately 1-1/2 feet long and 
painstakingly carved from a brilliant blue gemstone. 
Narrow at the base, the relic flutes outward, like a torch. 
Grooves along its length are dotted with small inlaid 
crystals, which are inscribed with Elven runes, altogether 
translated as, We give of our years ahead to summon 
those whose years are behind.
Dying Relic. The Light of Memoria was built to be 
consumed during the grand ritual. However, the ritual 
never fully completed, leaving the relic a glimmer of its 
former glory and a hairsbreadth away from collapsing 
into dust. The residual magic in the relic combined with 
the rage of the Forgotten and the spectral memories of 
the Memorians sustains both the relic and the Oubliette.
When the PCs find the relic, only faint sparkles of 
blue light in its crystals indicate it is anything but an 
extraordinarily carved, though cracked, gemstone. If a 
PC proficient in the Arcana skill studies it during a short 
rest, the PC understands it was the focus of a magical 
ritual that involved communicating with the dead. The 
PC also understands that the relic can be temporarily 
powered by the voluntary sacrifice of vital energy. The 
PCs need the relic to travel into the Oubliette and to 
return, but they also need it to better survive the perils 
awaiting them there.
Using the Light. As an action, a creature holding the 
relic can sacrifice some of its life energy to it, causing 
the gem to shed bright light in a 15-foot radius and 
dim light for an additional 15 feet. This light lasts for 24 
hours and isn’t reduced by the light-reducing effects 
of the Oubliette. The creature that made the sacrifice 
ages by 10 years or by 10% of its maximum lifespan, 
whichever is greater. Each time the relic is used in 
this way, new cracks appear, gradually spiderwebbing 
throughout it.
If charged with life energy while within 60 feet of the 
archway in the lifeless clearing, the Light of Memoria 
opens the portal to the Oubliette. Once the PCs cross 
through the portal, the duration of the light shed by the 
relic shortens to 8 hours, as the opening of the portal 
drained much of the life energy out of it. 
Each time the relic absorbs a spectral memory 
(see Memorian Specters sidebar), the light it sheds 
increases by 5 feet and the duration of the light 
increases to 24 hours. Once it absorbs all three spectral 
memories, it can re-open the portal to Midgard from 
the Oubliette. This final act destroys the Oubliette, frees 
the spirits of the Memorians who have been trapped 
within the Oubliette for centuries, and destroys the relic 
(see Memoria’s Legacy).

--- PAGE 13 ---
11
HAPLESS APPRENTICE
Tymon is a 17-year-old lanky human who is, ostensibly, 
an apprentice of Gellert the Gruesome. To be accurate, 
he’s a hapless henchman that runs errands for one of 
Gellert’s lieutenants, Cagoth‑ze, a gnome wizard who 
specializes in ley line magic. Cagoth-ze uses the boy’s 
eagerness to learn magic as a way of manipulating 
him into performing a variety of mundane tasks, 
ever‑promising to teach him magic “soon.” Minor magic 
came to Tymon through sheer stubbornness and scraps 
of arcane lore he snuck out of Cagoth-ze’s sanctum.
Ambitious sorcery and banditry sounded romantic 
to Tymon in his former life as a bored merchant’s son 
in Triolo. However, his time as Gellert’s “apprentice” 
has yielded very little magical knowledge, several new 
scars and callouses, and much more involvement with 
bandits than he ever thought he’d have. Disillusionment 
is settling in, and Tymon’s current predicament isn’t 
helping. 
Tymon uses the statistics of a noble, except he knows 
the fire bolt and prestidigitation cantrips and can cast 
magic missile once per day. He is helpful to the PCs but 
hangs back in combat unless coerced. During the final 
encounter with the Forgotten, he joins the fray without 
hesitation, desperate to escape his former captor. He is 
a little fatalistic about his life choices, something the PCs 
might be able to help him overcome.

--- PAGE 14 ---
12
difficulty figuring out what to do with the relic, it can 
respond intuitively to the pressure Tymon’s efforts put 
on the ley lines and open the portal spontaneously when 
close to the archway.
The Oubliette
The Oubliette is a surreal realm, amputated from the 
shadow roads. Wedged between the Shadow Realm and 
Midgard, It is shaped both by the malevolent undead 
trapped here and by the memories and agony of the 
Memorians who perished here.
OUBLIETTE FEATURES
The Oubliette is unfixed in space. Each map hex is 15 
feet by 15 feet, but distance becomes difficult to measure 
here. Travel from one area to the next is dreamlike, and 
while the memoryscape is not large, transitions between 
places stretch impossibly in perception, no matter how 
immediate the movement is. 
Ceilings. The “ceiling” here is a dark, amorphous void. 
Effects or creatures moving more than 60 feet up cross 
the boundaries of the Oubliette and “fall,” crashing back 
into the space they occupied. The PC doesn’t take falling 
damage but is momentarily disoriented by the fall.
Cut Off. Magic still works in the Oubliette, but it 
is separated from nearby ley lines. Creatures in the 
Oubliette can’t sense or tap into ley lines here.
Doors and Walls. Entrances and walls in the 
Oubliette are not solid boundaries; instead, areas blend 
at the edges, bleeding into one another as different 
memoryscapes overlap. To the viewer, the area they 
currently occupy seems to go on ahead and behind 
indefinitely. Terrain only changes visibly as the PCs pass 
through the boundaries.
All edges in the Oubliette lead into the void, though 
some are behind shadowy edifices mimicking structures. 
Falling from these edges is harrowing: after plummeting 
into darkness for 1 round, the creature appears back 
in the space it started, unharmed. The creature must 
succeed on a DC 10 Wisdom saving throw or suffer one 
level of exhaustion and be frightened for 1 minute. 
Hunting. It is impossible to hunt in the Oubliette and 
the PCs must rely on their own water and food. 
Light. The Oubliette is utterly dark and impenetrable 
using only mundane light sources. Magical light sources 
still function but only at half their effective illumination 
radius.
Sleeping. PCs can take short or long rests in the 
Oubliette. Sleep, however, is haunted by nightmarish 
dreams of grasping shadows and a great city collapsing 
into oblivion. At the end of each long rest, the PCs must 
succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw to gain the 
benefits of completing a long rest. 
As the Forgotten wants the PCs to open the portal, 
it keeps most of its minions from pursuing them 
aggressively. If the PCs need more of a challenge or 
underestimate the dangers of the Oubliette, then resting 
periods are ideal times to attack with shadows or shrouds 
(see Tome of Beasts) to keep them harried and weakened. 
AREA 1: THE ARCH
An intact archway riddled with cracks and shadow 
dominates the center of this large, obsidian plateau. 
Crumbled pillars surround the archway, and shadowy 
chains bind a young man to one of its legs.
The Apprentice. Tymon (see the Hapless Apprentice 
MEMORIAN SPECTERS
Nearly all the surviving Memorians fell prey to the 
undead when they sealed the Oubliette, and these felled 
Memorians soon joined the ranks of undead. However, 
a few possessed amulets of memory (see Appendix), 
sacred items to this cult of Mnemosyne that protected 
them from corruption. These were Stefanya, Nevena, and 
Ivon, former pillars of Memoria and the spirits the PCs 
can use to empower the Light of Memoria. 
While not forced into undeath, the three were 
nonetheless trapped souls, and the Oubliette took a toll 
on them. The permeation of rage and grief combined 
with the constant replaying of their worst memories, 
and over time, their identities fragmented. They became 
spectral memories (see Appendix), starved for their 
abandoned identities.
To restore a Memorian, the PCs must remind the 
Memorian of its former self. The amulets of memory 
still on the Memorians’ bodies provide visions of each 
spirit’s past, giving the PCs the information they need to 
restore the Memorians. Speaking a Memorian’s name is 
sufficient to make the spectral memory stop attacking, 
and speaking at least one pertinent detail of the vision 
in the spirit’s amulet of memory enables the Memorian 
to pierce its self-delusions and be restored. 
If restored, a Memorian specter willingly binds itself 
to the relic, charging it. Destroying a spectral memory 
renders it dormant. It returns to lurk near its body after 
2d4 hours, allowing the PCs another chance to interact 
with it.

--- PAGE 15 ---
13
sidebar) is bound to the archway by two shadowy chains. 
He is malnourished and has two levels of exhaustion. His 
rations and water are nearly gone, and he is relieved to 
see the PCs: 
“By the gods, I can’t believe you’re here! You have to help 
me! That blue gemstone thing, do you have it? They hate 
that thing. Put it to the chains. I’m sure it will weaken 
them. Please, hurry!”
Tymon tells the PCs anything they want to know if 
they’ll free him, but he urges haste. He warns them the 
Forgotten, a powerful wraith, is desperate for a way out 
and no doubt already knows they’re here. Once free, 
Tymon urges them to the north side of the plateau (Area 
2). They’ll need help to use the relic and to face the 
Forgotten, who is not going to simply let them leave.
Breaking the Chains. Pressing the relic against the 
chains causes them to solidify. A successful DC 12 
Strength check breaks them. Alternatively, dealing 10 
damage to the chains breaks them. 
Tymon’s Knowledge. Cagoth-ze gave Tymon what 
little knowledge the gnome could find on the archway 
before sending their apprentice to investigate it. Tymon 
knows ancient mages once opened the archway during 
some ritual and became trapped beyond it. He suggests 
the PCs find the mages to enlist their help. He expresses 
some uncertainty if the mages are still alive, given his 
experience with the Forgotten, but he believes they are 
their best chance of learning more about the relic and 
using it to get out of here. Though a bit disillusioned 
by his time in the Scarlet Citadel, Tymon proudly 
claims to be the apprentice of Gellert the Gruesome. A 
successful DC 13 Wisdom (Insight) check notices that 
Tymon’s conviction in his claim isn’t strong.
AREA 2: THE DIM PATH
Shadowed reflections of an ancient road, lined with 
withered trees and broken fencing, branches to the east 
and west. Beyond the path, a dark countryside gives way 
to sheer drop-offs on either side into the abyss. 
Tymon prefers to head east. He knows the Forgotten 
most often approaches Area 1 from the left, and he wants 
to find the mages before confronting the Forgotten.
AREA 3: STREETS OF MEMORIA
The ancient road rapidly transitions to a weed‑strewn 
brick path with crumbling stone buildings along its edges. 
The path and buildings seem to continue indefinitely.
This place is an image of a ruined Memoria: 
once‑elegant pillars shattered, sculptures toppled, walls 
gutted with gaping holes. Discarded items and mementos 
lie strewn around the area but dissolve into shadow when 
touched. The buildings on the sides are only facades, 
leading to a harrowing descent over the edges, as detailed 
in Oubliette Features.
Creatures. Three bodies lie in the streets. Each is a 
humanoid and clad in white robes but otherwise appears 
somewhat insubstantial. They house maddened shrouds 
(see Tome of Beasts), remnants of the Memorians 
who died here. If a creature approaches within 5 feet 
of a body, the body dissipates into swirling shadow, 
awakening the shroud within to attack.
AREA 4: THE RUINED LIBRARY 
The terrain shifts to a set of black-veined marble stairs, 
leading to a grand archway flanked by shifting, shadowy 
pillars. Two joined, circular rooms lined with bookshelves 
stacked with books and scrolls stand beyond the archway.

--- PAGE 16 ---
14
The aisles between the shelves lining the area lead 
to sudden edges into the abyss. Tables and chairs are 
scattered through the room, but like the other objects in 
the Oubliette, they are insubstantial. 
Nevena’s Memory. Nevena’s body, protected by an 
amulet of memory (see Appendix), lies in the center 
of the chamber leading to Area 5. Unlike the bodies in 
Area 3, she appears solid and possibly alive until closer 
investigation. A PC that examines her and touches the 
amulet of memory witnesses the memory enclosed of her 
greatest triumph and regret.
Read or paraphrase the following to the PC who 
touches the amulet:
The shadowy library vanishes, replaced by an intact room 
surrounded by bookshelves laden with knowledge. A 
woman wearing a gold diadem looks at you in concern. 
Looking down, you see hands that are not your own 
pressed onto a table covered in books and charts. Near 
you is a carved stone you recognize as the Light of 
Memoria, and you feel a twinge of great pride for what is, 
ultimately, your creation.
    The woman tells you, “Sacrifice? Nevena, no! Then the 
elves, the Kammaens, they’ll have been right about us all 
along.”
    You shake your head at your friend’s narrow-
mindedness. “Sacrifice can take many forms, Stefanya. 
The ley line provides the power, but the life energy to 
activate it need not be from one source. Couldn’t we all 
make a small sacrifice, give a little of all our lives to tether 
our ancestors here?” 
    Stefanya puts a hand over her mouth in consideration, 
and you turn your gaze to the relic, touching it with 
quiet reverence. “Imagine what we’ll learn!” you say. “A 
world where ‘goodbye’ is temporary. We could change 
everything—and perhaps be pariahs no more.”
Creatures. A spectral memory (see Appendix) of 
Nevena lurks among the bookshelves and observes the 
PCs. She attacks if spotted, if the PCs attempt to leave 
the area, or after one of the PCs interacts with her amulet 
of memory (after the vision ends). See the Memorian 
Specters sidebar for guidance on how the PCs can 
peacefully interact with Nevena’s spirit.
Restoring Nevena. If her identity is restored, Nevena 
says the following: 
“The light was never meant for evil. Use it to mend the 
damage we’ve caused!” Once she vanishes into the light, 
her body crumbles to dust, except for the amulet.
Treasure. Nevena’s body holds the amulet of memory. 
An intact spell scroll of see invisibility and a spell scroll of 
magic circle are within scroll cases on the bookshelves.
AREA 5: THE CROSSROADS
The terrain shifts into a quiet country road that forks. A 
signpost in the middle names the roads in a flowing script. 
The signpost labels (in Elvish) the western road as 
“Loss” and the southern road as “Hubris.”
AREA 6: THE SHADOW CORRIDOR
A dark corridor stretches westward. 
The entirety of this corridor is pitch black, 
impenetrable by magical light sources of 3rd level or 
less. Only light from the Light of Memoria can penetrate 
the darkness. 
Creatures. The first time the PCs pass through this 
area, they disturb two shadows that attack immediately.
AREA 7: THE COLLAPSING WALL
The terrain shifts to a stone walkway on the ramparts of a 
high wall overlooking the abyss on each side. 
The wall is a 15-foot-wide stone construction with 
sheer sides leading to rocky ground sloping off the 
edge. A successful DC 13 Intelligence (Investigation) or 
Wisdom (Perception) check notices the wall isn’t sound.
Hazard. The wall is damaged and at risk of giving way. 
Each creature that crosses the bridge must succeed on a 
The sin
The sin
post la
post la

--- PAGE 17 ---
15
9
11
3
10
12
6
5
7
8
1
4
N
h
2
The 
Oubliette

--- PAGE 18 ---
16
DC 13 Dexterity saving throw or cause part of the wall to 
crumble, taking 2 (1d4) bludgeoning damage, and unless 
tethered to other creatures or to the wall, they fall into 
the abyss (see Oubliette Features). A creature that moves 
at half its speed across the bridge has advantage on the 
saving throw. 
AREA 8: THE SILENT PATH
This road seems to stretch for miles, but it ends to the west 
in a mighty alabaster citadel, shimmering like a mirage. 
The length of the road is silent, and shadows flicker off to 
the sides. 
While traveling the path, the PCs get the disturbing 
feeling of being watched and followed closely. 
Creatures. The PCs are being followed: a shroud (see 
Tome of Beasts), born of one of the sudden deaths of the 
Memorians, silently trails them. It toys with the PCs’ 
items, clothing, or equipment by staying close to the 
ground, tugging on clothing, tying shoelaces together, 
or other minor pranks. It hides in the shadows alongside 
the road to avoid the PCs’ notice. It reveals itself with a 
high-pitched, mad giggle if the PCs exhibit confusion. It 
won’t pursue if they flee from it, but it attacks if the PCs 
react in anger and disrupt its fun.   
AREA 9: MEMORIA’S COURTYARD
The path crosses under a once-mighty gate into a large 
courtyard edged by silent, dark buildings and shadowy 
forms of market stalls. On the western side, a body lies 
beside a slightly insubstantial fountain, flowing with 
liquid shadow. 
Ivon’s body lies motionless beside the fountain in the 
western side near Area 10. 
The paths from this chamber lead to the northwest 
(Area 11), apparently out of the citadel, to the east (Area 
8), and to the south (Area 10), where two different paths 
vanish into darkness. Tymon, if able, advises against 
going south: something about it reminds him of the 
Forgotten’s presence. Tymon says this only if the PCs 
haven’t fully charged the relic with all three mages.
Ivon’s Memory. As with the other Memorian 
specters, touching Ivon’s amulet of memory draws the 
investigating PC into one of his final memories: 
You rush into the courtyard where the statue of 
Mnemosyne presides over brilliant blue waters, flowing 
from the fountain. The sight of it normally fills you with 
peace but not this night. Screams echo from everywhere, 
and you know the two mages by your side are among 
the precious few remaining. You order them to escort 
survivors to the shadow gate, your heart heavy.
    Then, from the corner of your eye, you see a woman 
with pinned hair and blue robes, laden with scroll cases, 
fleeing from a nearby building with shadows at her heels. 
In her arms, you recognize the blue stone of the Light 
of Memoria. Summoning your magic, you dissipate the 
shadows with a few well-placed blasts, but you know there 
are far more of them than you can handle. 
    Nevena gasps, “Ivon! It’s all gone wrong!”
    “What happened?” You help her to her feet, gaping at 
her in disbelief. One minute, the ritual was underway; the 
next, shades erupted from seemingly every shadow in the 
city. “What did your relic do?”
    “What it was meant to! It bridged the worlds, brought 
our ancestors to us, but something happened in the 
transition. Was it the Shadow? Was our sacrifice not 
enough?” She looks up at you in grief. “I thought we could 
bypass the bloodshed.”
    You knew, in your heart, you’d all asked too much of 
magic, but you’d prayed to finally understand the secrets 
of your elven lineage. “We all did. Now run.” You nudge 
her toward the gates and pause long enough to gaze at the 
serene face of your goddess. “Oh, Mnemosyne, spare us 
your wrath.” You tremble inside, reaching for your resolve. 
“All we have ever—all I have ever—longed to do is honor 
you, honor the past. Not destroy our futures.” 
Creatures. The spectral memory (see Appendix) 
of Ivon lurks in the fountain, hiding as he watches the 
characters. He attacks if they attempt to leave, discover 
him, or after one of them interacts with his amulet.
See the Memorian Specters sidebar for guidance on 
how the PCs can peacefully interact with Ivon’s spirit. 
Restoring Ivon. If his identity is restored, Ivon says: 
“This place defiles our goddess, warping our sacred 
memories. I will help you end it if I can.” Once he 
vanishes into the light, his body crumbles to dust, except 
for the amulet.
Treasure. Ivon’s body holds his amulet of memory. 
The longsword at his side has not aged well, but its 
gem‑studded scabbard is worth 150 gp.
STATUS IN MIDGARD
If you are using Status (see Midgard Worldbook) and the 
PCs close the Oubliette, the PCs gain +2 to their Status 
with the residents of Redtower. These modifiers stack 
with similar Status modifiers the PCs may possess.

--- PAGE 19 ---
17
AREA 10: THE WELL OF SHADOWS
The narrow corridors leading into this area have 
sheer drops on either side and are otherwise dark and 
featureless. They lead to a moat of bottomless, writhing 
shadows with a small bridge to a pillar in the center. 
This area holds the remaining spirits of the people 
who inhabited ancient Memoria. Freeing them requires 
the collapse of the entire Oubliette (see Escaping the 
Oubliette). The central pillar is a favored place where 
the Forgotten contemplates its power and what it will do 
when unleashed upon the world. 
Creatures. There is a 50% chance the Forgotten (see 
Escaping the Oubliette) is here. It attacks the PCs if they 
enter what it considers its abode, but it won’t try to kill 
them until they activate the portal out of the Oubliette. If 
reduced below half its hit point maximum, it disappears 
into the well of shadows and sends a shadow to attack 
the PCs each round the PCs remain in Area 10. The 
shadows don’t leave the area or pursue fleeing PCs. The 
Forgotten doesn’t pursue fleeing PCs, hoping they will 
open the portal.  
Treasure. Remnants of the Memorians’ belongings 
remain scattered at the edges of the well, including 
gems, jewelry, silk scarves and belts, and small art 
objects able to withstand the test of time, worth a total 
of 70 gp, 1,050 sp, and 2,100 cp—if the PCs can collect 
it all. It takes 1 round to collect a third of the total value 
(rounded down).
AREA 11: THE WEEPING FOREST
The terrain transitions into a narrow corridor lined by 
thick, oppressive trees made of shadow. Skeletal branches 
form a dense arch overhead, and wailing and weeping 
emanate from among the trees without a visible source. 
The feeling of grief permeates the forest. When a 
creature enters this area, and each minute it remains 
in this area, it must succeed a DC 10 Wisdom saving 
throw or be convinced someone in the forest needs help, 
leaving the path to help the person.  
Creatures. Four shrouds (see Tome of Beasts) lurk in 
the forest, drifting in hazy memories of rage, grief, and 
fear. They ignore creatures moving along the path, but 
they attack anyone stepping off it and into the forest. 
AREA 12: THE SHATTERED ROAD
The northern part of this blasted clearing ends in an 
abrupt, jagged cliff. Paths from the east and west sweep 
into wide roads that flow toward it. 
This cliff marks where the Oubliette was severed from 
the original shadow road. The paths out of Area 6 and 
Area 11 end at its edge, looking abruptly cut-off.
Stefanya’s Memory. Stefanya’s body lies near the edge 
of the cliff. Investigating her amulet produces a vision of 
her last, most painful memory: 
Nevena made it a few feet from the portal before she 
died, overwhelmed by shrieking specters. You and your 
daughter, Mila, blasted them away from her but too late. 
Her fingers remain clasped around the Light of Memoria.
    You know what you have to do. You reach out to take it, 
but Mila stops you and protests.
    “Nevena was right,” you say and gently remove your 
daughter’s hand from your arm. “We have to cut them 
off from the shadow road to protect others from what we 
unleashed. You should go, quickly. Tell others to remember 
us—and not to repeat our mistakes.”
    “The power it takes will kill you!” she protests, but you 
know already.
    “These things will do no less to us and to anyone else 
they find unless we trap them here.” You reach again for 
the relic, but a searing, cold pain rips across your back. 
Turning, a hulking wraith looms before you with a deep, 
inhuman laugh within its formless darkness. Fire bursts 
on the creature’s side, and you see Ivon stagger away 
from a pack of shadows. He is withered and drained. The 
wraith turns to him in rage, but Ivon looks to you.
    “We can’t hold them,” he rasps, and then he is lost 
beneath a sea of shadows.
    You turn back to see the relic and Mila both gone. You 
see a flicker, a lock of dark hair, waver through the portal. 
Dread and pride collide in your chest as you know what 
she’s done, and the rumbling in the darkness confirms it. 
A terrible shrieking erupts all around you as the archway 
warps and goes dark, echoing the notes of triumphant 
grief in your mind before you feel cold, incorporeal talons 
tear into you. 
Creatures. The spectral memory (see Appendix) of 
Stefanya lurks just over the edge of the cliff, rising to 
attack if she is spotted, if the PCs attempt to leave the 
area, or after a PC interacts with her amulet in any way.
See the Memorian Specters sidebar for guidance on 
how the PCs can peacefully interact with Stefanya’s spirit. 
Restoring Stefanya. If restored, Stefanya pleads with 
the PCs: 
“I implore you, strangers, put an end to this place if you 
can. Allow it to defile our memories no longer.” Once she 
vanishes into the light, her body crumbles to dust, except 
for her amulet.

--- PAGE 20 ---
18
Treasure. Aside from the amulet of memory, 
Stefanya’s body holds a golden diadem worth 250 gp and 
inlaid with the same cresting wave symbol that appears 
on the amulet.
Escaping the Oubliette
Escaping requires the PCs to take the Light of Memoria, 
charged with the spirits of Stefanya, Nevena, and Ivon, 
to Area 1 and use it to open the portal back to Midgard. 
The Forgotten doesn’t plan to make it so easy. It 
restrained itself to allow the PCs to gather the means of 
their—and thus its—escape, but it reveals itself as they 
prepare the portal. 
When the PCs activate the portal, the archway starts 
sparking and growing in power for 1 minute. As the 
portal begins to open, the Forgotten surges forward from 
the darkness and shrieks, “Freedom! At last!” It laughs as 
it attacks, gloating that it will claim them as its first living 
victims in far too long.  
The Forgotten. The Forgotten is a specter, and it 
brings two shadows with it to slay the PCs. Ordinarily, 
this fight might be too difficult a challenge for the PCs, 
but the spirits within the Light of Memoria aid them 
against the Forgotten. 
When the Forgotten attacks, an audible “No!” emerges 
from the relic as the spirits of Nevena, Stefanya, and 
Ivon react to the specter’s presence. The relic surges 
with brilliance, and the light it sheds becomes sunlight, 
weakening the Forgotten and its shadows. The PC 
wielding the relic notices it begin to crumble, bit by bit.
If the encounter lasts for more than a minute, the 
portal crackles to life, and the Forgotten attempts to 
flee through it. The Forgotten won’t risk being trapped 
here again just to kill the PCs. The PCs can pursue the 
Forgotten and continue the combat or let it escape, 
wreaking havoc best left for another adventure.
If defeated, the Forgotten unleashes an unholy screech 
as it dissipates. The Oubliette, no longer sustained by the 
Memorians nor the Forgotten’s ego, warps and begins 
to collapse. Once the portal opens after defeating the 
Forgotten, the PCs have 3 rounds to escape through the 
portal before perishing in the collapse of the Oubliette. 
Once back on Midgard, they see, through the archway, 
the Oubliette crumble, giving way to empty darkness as 
the gate closes.
Memoria’s Legacy
Once the gate closes, the relic pulses bright blue once 
more, illuminating the cracks and gaps within it, and 
then breaks. A fist-sized chunk of blue gemstone remains 
among the worthless shards, still glowing faintly. This 
chunk functions as a gem of brightness with 50 charges. 
If the PCs sacrificed life energy to the relic and aged 
as a result, the aging effects are reversed, with the PCs 
returning to the ages they were before sacrificing life 
energy to the relic.
The images of the spectral memories briefly flicker 
before the PCs, appearing as they did in life. Before 
fading, they thank the PCs. Ivon promises the PCs will 
be remembered, wherever the Memorians are going, 
and asks Mnemosyne to watch over them. Nevena hopes 
the PCs will not remember the Memorians unkindly; 
they meant to do good. Stefanya assures the PCs that 
Memoria can rest now, but she cautions them that the 
power here that inspired the Memorians to make a 
utopia could also be used for less benign purposes. The 
trio bids the PCs farewell and fades away.
The eerie feeling in the lifeless clearing vanishes, and 
the black vine around the arch withers to dust. Animals 
soon return, and in time, the plants regrow.
Concluding the Adventure
After his experiences, Tymon swears off returning to 
Gellert. In fact, he plans to keep an eye on this area 
to make sure no one comes tampering with the gate, 
echoing Stefanya’s sentiments about its potential. 
He intends to go to Redtower and start over. He knows 
Cagoth-ze won’t be pleased with his disappearance, 
and he begins training to prepare himself for a possible 
retaliation from the gnome. To thank his rescuers, he 
gives the PCs his stone of good luck. He found it while 
poking around the Scarlet Citadel, and he’s not entirely 
sure it ever did him any good. He hopes it works better 
for them.
The PCs may decide from here to investigate the 
dangers of the Scarlet Citadel (see Scarlet Citadel) or 
to rest, recuperate, and explore around Redtower (see 
Warlock 20: Redtower). They may also wish to pursue 
the threads of this adventure elsewhere, perhaps going 
to Kammae in the Seven Cities, seeking information 
about Mnemosyne and her unfortunate fate. They may 
also attempt to excavate what they can of what remains 
of Memoria, bringing it out of obscurity, or perhaps they 
have the ambition to attempt to reconstruct the shadow 
gate themselves.

--- PAGE 21 ---
19
WRATH OF THE BRAMBLE KING
This adventure takes place in the Margreve Forest but 
can be adapted to any forested location. 
Adventure Background
Two centuries ago, a creature known as the Weft of 
Shadows broke into a minor elf noble’s extraplanar vault 
in the Summer Lands, and stealing several powerful 
magic items, it deposited them in random forest 
locations throughout Midgard. However, thanks to an 
unusual set of rules involved in the creation of these 
artifacts, once mortal hands have touched them, the elves 
can no longer claim them.
Such was the case with the Bramble Crown, which 
landed in the Margreve Forest. A young orphan lost 
in the deep woods discovered the crown, and the boy’s 
curiosity over the object overrode his fears about its 
thorns, glistening with green poison. He reached out for 
it. To his surprise, the thorns retracted, allowing him to 
grab the crown and place it on his head. As the crown 
settled in place, it transformed him into a plant-like fey.
The Bramble King, as he is now known, is a reclusive 
creature who has lived deep in the Margreve for a century 
and a half. His distance from most settlements keeps 
civilization away, and terrible bedtime stories about the 
Bramble King prevent most reasonable people from 
looking for him. As with many such stories, the warnings 
about the Bramble King do hold a kernel of truth. When a 
hunter trespasses on his territory, he threatens them with 
writhing, thorny vines and plants pruned in the likenesses 
of predatory animals. And all the thorns belonging to 
the Bramble King’s plants are tipped with a poison that 
creates an itchy rash, so those who persist in intruding on 
his peace return with horrifying red patches on their skin. 
In actuality, however, the Bramble King is a gentle 
soul who wishes only to be left with his creations. He 
often takes in lost souls and tends to their injuries before 
sending them back to civilization with a bramble animal 
escort. Perhaps ancient memories of his orphaning guide 
him to help those similarly lost.
This all changed when the Weft of Shadows took notice 
of the Bramble King’s relative inactivity. It incited nearby 
children of the briar to envy the Bramble King’s crown, 
and a contingent managed to wrest the crown from his 
head while he slept. They poisoned the vines and captured 
or killed many of the Bramble King’s creations.
When the Bramble King awoke, he saw the devastation 
wreaked by the children of the briar and realized the 
Bramble Crown had been stolen. Despite the loss of 
his crown, he still wielded power over his surviving 
creations, so he sent them to the village of Cambervale. 
He had recently sent a lost elfmarked girl named 
Tremika to the village, and he reasoned the villagers 
must have raided his home as some sort of twisted 
revenge. He spoke through his creations, demanding the 
villagers return his crown, and when they denied having 
it, he instructed his bramble animals to tear apart homes 
in search of the prize. The Bramble King’s servants now 
hold the village hostage while he forces villagers to search 
elsewhere for the crown.
Adventure Hooks
The PCs may be traveling to Cambervale following a 
lead on a rare herb only found near the village. They may 
be on other business in the Margreve but run across a 
villager desperate for help. Or the PCs may be searching 
for the Bramble Crown independently (see A Strange 
Interlude below), and investigations have directed them 
to Cambervale.
The Mad Plants of Cambervale
The PCs arrive in Cambervale to a state of verdant chaos. 
A thick, circular wall of thorny vines surrounds a group 
of villagers while a pair of badgers made of the same 
vines patrols. These two giant bramble badgers use the 
statistics for a giant badger with the bramble creature 
template (see Appendix). The Bramble King withdraws 
his creations if one of them is damaged; he can’t risk 
losing more of his precious creations. It is possible for 
the PCs to give chase, but the wall of vines closes around 
the trapped villagers, who cry out for help. 
The wall of vines is 20 feet in diameter and 20 feet 
high. Each creature that touches the wall or hits it with 
a melee attack while within 5 feet of it must succeed on 
a DC 12 Dexterity saving throw or take 2d8 piercing 
damage and be poisoned for 1 minute. The wall can be 
For 2nd-Level Characters

--- PAGE 22 ---
20
attacked and destroyed (AC 12; hp 10; vulnerability to 
fire; immunity to piercing, poison, and psychic damage 
per 10-foot section). A successful DC 11 Wisdom 
(Insight) check realizes the wall’s retraction posed no 
immediate danger to the villagers, who are too panicked 
to realize the lack of threat.
If the PCs rescue the villagers, the villagers offer them 
thanks and a reward of 5 sp. The villagers will relate to 
them the sudden attack by the bramble badgers and the 
Bramble King’s demands for his crown, spoken through 
the badgers. The villagers speak with horror about the 
attack on their village. They feared for their lives, but 
they do note, with some confusion, that none of the 
villagers were harmed during the attack. A successful 
DC 10 Intelligence (Nature) or Wisdom (Survival) check 
notices the poisonous nature of the vines, but none of the 
villagers have been poisoned.
The villagers are desperate to escape the Bramble King’s 
grasp but are too afraid to confront him. They humbly 
offer an alchemy jug as a reward for ending the Bramble 
King’s threat, leaving the details of how to the PCs. 
Finding the Bramble King
The PCs have a few avenues available to them in their 
search for the Bramble King. If they immediately set 
after the bramble badgers, a successful DC 8 Wisdom 
(Survival) check allows them to follow the badgers’ 
tracks. If they assist the villagers, the delay increases the 
DC to 12. The villagers recall the general direction to the 
Bramble King’s abode, based on old reports about him. 
If the PCs overtly ask the villagers about the Bramble 
King’s whereabouts, a successful DC 8 Wisdom (Insight) 
check notices a girl in the crowd nervously shifting from 
one foot to the other.
The girl is Tremika, the elfmarked child the Bramble 
King saved and sent to the village. She is reluctant to 
speak to the PCs. The Bramble King was nice to her 
(even having his “brambimals” perform tricks to delight 
her), and she doesn’t want anyone to hurt him. In 
her mind, the Bramble King is mad because someone 
stole something he liked an awful lot, and he didn’t 
mean to scare the others. A successful DC 11 Charisma 
(Persuasion) check convinces her to open up about the 
Bramble King and give the PCs enough details to find his 
lair. If the PCs haven’t been hostile toward the villagers, 
they have advantage on the check. If Tremika shares the 
Bramble King’s location with the PCs, she asks them to 
promise not to hurt him.
A STRANGE INTERLUDE
As the PCs seek out the Bramble King’s lair, they come 
across an oak tree with a pair of broken branches that touch 
the ground, forming an archway large enough for a person 
to pass through comfortably. The archway shimmers, 
and an elven woman composed of thousands of motes of 
light steps through. She addresses the PCs by name and 
commends them on a previous victory of your choice. She 
introduces herself as Daesanderena and tells the PCs she 
hails from the Summer Lands. Since she cannot personally 
retrieve the Bramble Crown, she asks the PCs to provide a 
clipping from the crown to her. She relates details on the 
crown (the first paragraph of the Adventure Background 
above) to inquisitive PCs and notes that possessing an 
infinitesimal fraction of the crown does not violate the rules 
preventing her from obtaining the item. She promises the 
PCs 100 gp if they return with the snippet of the crown. 
As noted in Adventure Hooks, you can introduce 
Daesanderena prior to this adventure. If the PCs are at a 
loss in finding the Bramble King’s lair, she can help them 
now that the crown has moved elsewhere.
THE BROKEN KING
When the PCs reach the Bramble King, he is still angry 
about his missing crown, but his anger is tinged with 
despair that he will never find it again. He stands a head 
taller than the average human, and his body is composed 
of hundreds of thorny vines. Despite his physical age 
and appearance, he has matured very little beyond the 
boy who transformed into the Bramble King. He blusters 
and threatens the PCs when they arrive but makes no 
initial move to stop them from trespassing in his lair. 
If the PCs attack him and inflict damage, he begins to 
sob, leaking poisonous “tears” from his eyes. If the PCs 
cease attacking, he tells them about the theft of his crown 
and his overwhelming desire to get it back. If the PCs 
continue their attack, he protects himself by creating a 
wall of thorny vines between himself and the PCs, similar 
to the wall that surrounded the villagers, and commands 
them to leave him alone. Coaxing information out of 
him after a continued attack requires a successful DC 
15 Charisma (Persuasion) check. The Bramble King is 
a force of nature and, though distraught and without 
his crown, too powerful for the PCs to fight directly. 
The PCs must use diplomacy and tact to resolve the 
villagers’ plight. If the PCs continue to attack him after 
he creates the wall, he retreats from them, disappearing 
STATUS IN MIDGARD
If you are using Status (see Midgard Worldbook) and 
the PCs return the Bramble Crown to the Bramble King, 
the PCs gain +1 to their Status with the humanoid 
inhabitants of the Margreve Forest and −1 to their 
Status with the children of the briar. These modifiers 
stack with similar Status modifiers the PCs may possess.

--- PAGE 23 ---
21
into the thorns and shadows of the forest. He keeps 
an eye on them either directly or through his bramble 
creatures and reappears if the PCs seem more receptive 
to conversation.
While the PCs are talking to the Bramble King, he 
suddenly becomes noticeably distracted shortly before 
his flower-like eyes widen in horror. He tells the PCs one 
of his creations was just murdered by a group of thorny 
people. He implores the PCs to stop them and expresses 
his hope that they will find his crown too. He promises 
to stop harassing the nearby villagers while the PCs 
undertake this mission, but he refuses to go with them, 
fearful of having his hopes dashed again. If the PCs ask 
about a reward, he indicates he will happily provide them 
with something wonderful if they find his crown.
The Overgrown Tower
Predating the Margreve Forest’s famed Griffon Towers, 
the ancient Deepwood Towers stood watch within the 
more remote parts of the forest. These towers never 
achieved the same level of renown as the Griffon Towers, 
for even the most stalwart of soldiers could not fulfill 
their assigned duties. Many left the haunted woods 
early with their sanity intact while those who tried to 
persevere broke from the onslaught of chaos that attacked 
the towers. The woods eventually reclaimed the land 
occupied by the towers. Overgrowth hides the buildings 
from all but the most determined searches, and vegetation 
has returned to formerly cleared ground.
5
7
10
11
1
2
3
4
6
8
9

--- PAGE 24 ---
22
Children of the briar (see Tome of Beasts) have 
claimed the tower as their home, where they safely return 
after they waylay travelers in the woods. They attracted 
the attention of the Weft of Shadows, which asked them 
to steal the crown. Jealous of the Bramble King but 
fearful of his power, they reluctantly agreed to the task 
after the Weft of Shadows provided them with a magical 
powder to knock the Bramble King unconscious. The 
Weft left a pair of shadows behind to ensure the children 
of the briar performed their duties and to create a 
shadow clone of the crown after the children of the briar 
returned with it.
The tower’s walls are 15 feet tall, and enough light 
penetrates the overgrowth to create dim light throughout 
the tower, except where noted.
AREA 1: ENTRANCE TO THE DEEPWOOD 
TOWER
The Bramble King provided directions to the tower, but 
the overgrowth makes it difficult to spot the tower and 
its entrance. A successful DC 12 Wisdom (Survival) 
check finds the entrance among the plants. Even if the 
PCs don’t immediately find it, they see enough evidence 
around the forested area to realize there is a habitable 
location nearby. If they fail to find the tower initially, the 
PCs find it after another half hour of searching, but the 
creatures in the compound are aware of their presence. 
Just inside the entrance, the PCs find a flayed giant 
bramble lizard—the “creation” the Bramble King lost 
while speaking with the PCs.
AREA 2: HALBERD-WIELDING STATUE
The inner part of this hallway is the most intact section 
of this building. A secret door to Area 3 hides among the 
overgrowth on the western wall’s masonry. A successful 
DC 12 Wisdom (Perception) check notices a thin line of 
damaged vegetation that marks the outline of the door. 
A statue of a heavily armored humanoid stands at the 
center of the hall along the eastern wall (marked with 
the star) and faces the secret door to Area 3. The statue’s 
right hand holds a stone halberd, which forms the basis 
of a simple trap left by the children of the briar. The hole 
in the wall next to the statue is filled with rubble and is 
only big enough for Tiny or smaller creatures to squeeze 
through into Area 7.
Falling Halberd Trap. When a creature opens the 
secret door to Area 3, a trip wire snaps, releasing the 
halberd to fall in the spaces between the statue and the 
door. Each creature between the statue and the secret 
door when the trap triggers must make a DC 11 Dexterity 
saving throw, taking 11 (2d10) bludgeoning damage on a 
failed save or half as much damage on a successful one. 
Prevention. A successful DC 12 Intelligence 
(Investigation) check notices the trip wire hidden 
among the thick grass covering the floor. Alternatively, 
a successful DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check notices 
a fracture on the right wrist of the statue where it was 
broken and reattached to form the trap. A successful DC 
12 Dexterity (thieves’ tools) check harmlessly detaches 
the trip wire from the halberd. A character without 
thieves’ tools can attempt this check with disadvantage, 
using any edged weapon or edged tool. On a failed check, 
the trap triggers. If no creatures are between the statue 
and the door when the trap triggers, the halberd loudly 
but harmlessly clatters to the floor.
AREA 3: FOREST DRAKE AND FALSE CROWN
This chamber is open to the sky and filled with a mound 
of weed-covered soil. A forest drake (see Creature 
Codex), charged by the children of the briar to guard the 
crown in its possession from “despoilers of the forest,” 
prowls the room. If the drake is alerted to the PCs’ 
presence (such as by the PCs triggering the trap outside 
the secret door), it climbs 10 feet up the overgrown wall 
and waits to ambush them from above. (The overgrowth 
on the tower obscures its full dimensions, which helps to 
hide the existence of this room.)
If the PCs get the drop on the drake and choose not 
to attack, they can convince the creature they are not 
despoilers of the forest with a successful DC 13 Charisma 
(Deception or Persuasion) check. If a PC exceeds the DC 
by 5, they convince the drake to hand over the thorny 
crown in its possession. A druid PC has advantage on 
Charisma checks when interacting with the drake.
Unknown to the drake, the thorny crown in this 
room is a fake, crafted by a child of the briar and given 
to the drake to perpetuate the ruse. A successful DC 10 
Intelligence (Arcana) check makes it clear the crown has 
no power other than a glamour to make it seem magical. 
If the PCs are on friendly terms with the drake, they can 
convince the creature to join them in searching for the 
real crown with a DC 14 Charisma (Persuasion) check. 
The PCs have advantage on the check if they play on the 
drake’s anger at being fooled. The drake’s name is Zariss 
and only joins the PCs long enough to take his revenge 
on the children of the briar. After they obtain the crown, 
Zariss leaves the PCs with the warning to not despoil the 
forest. If the PCs make a particularly good impression on 
Zariss, he may return and aid them at a later time if they 
are ever in the Margreve Forest again.

--- PAGE 25 ---
23
AREA 4: SHADOWY ALCOVE
Unnatural gloom permeates this alcove, filling the area 
with darkness. Two shadows are finishing up the creation 
of the shadow copy of the Bramble Crown. Because they 
are focused on their task, they are not alerted to the PCs’ 
presence. When combat starts, one of the shadows places 
the shadow copy of the crown on its head and attempts to 
escape through one of the openings in the wall while the 
other shadow stays behind to delay the PCs.
AREA 5: COMMANDER’S OFFICE
A rotting wooden desk holds some slightly moldy papers, 
detailing the last harrowing days of the final group 
stationed in the tower. The papers describe spirits and 
ghosts assaulting the tower for weeks and end with an 
entry about the captain’s reluctant decision to abandon 
the tower. A gold band studded with sapphires worth 25 
gp sits in what remains of the desk’s bottom drawer.
AREA 6: SEALED WELL
A mineral ooze (see Tome of Beasts 2) has infested 
this well since shortly after the soldiers abandoned the 
tower. It attacks any who come near its well, including 
any children of the briar. The children lost some of their 
number to the ooze and have since used the hole in the 
wall between Area 2 and Area 7 to travel deeper into 
the tower. 
AREA 7: FLOWER-OVERGROWN KITCHEN
Excited by the prospect of carnage, two execrable 
shrubs (see Creature Codex) took up residence in the 
tower’s kitchen when the children of the briar moved 
in. They are accompanied by a child of the briar (see 
Tome of Beasts) who keeps watch through the hole in 
the wall between Area 2 and Area 7. As the companions 
to whichever child of the briar is on watch, the shrubs 
are often the first to feast on any intruders. If alerted to 
the presence of the PCs, this group might use the door 
in Area 7 to ambush the PCs from behind.
AREA 8: COMMON ROOM
The children of the briar use this relatively spacious 
area to experiment with the Bramble Crown, channeling 
their energy through it to manipulate plants near them. 
Discarded remains of misshapen bramble creatures 
litter the floor, marking their failures. After dozens 
of attempts, they managed to create a deformed giant 
bramble spider: use the statistics of a giant wolf spider 
with the bramble creature template (see Appendix). 
Two children of the briar ride the newly created 
monster to attack intruders.
AREA 9: STAIRS TO THE BATTLEMENT
A tangle of thorny vines fills the base of this battlement 
but doesn’t climb the stairs. Each creature that touches 
the vines or hits them with a melee attack while within 5 
feet of them must succeed on a DC 12 Dexterity saving 
throw or take 9 (2d8) piercing damage. The vines can be 
attacked and destroyed (AC 12; hp 10; vulnerability to 
fire; immunity to piercing, poison, and psychic damage 
per 10-foot section). Hacking through the vines alerts 
every creature in the tower to the PCs’ presence. A 
creature can squeeze through the vines without alerting 
the tower’s residents, but it must succeed on a DC 12 
Dexterity saving throw or take 4 (1d8) piercing damage 
for each 5 feet it moves through the vines. 
AREA 10: MID BATTLEMENT
If the PCs reach this spot without unduly alerting the 
tower’s current residents, they clearly hear an argument 
from above.
AREA 11: THE BATTLEMENT’S CROWN
Three children of the briar fight over the Bramble Crown, 
each arguing it is the most suited for the item. The crown 
rejected each of them after a short time, as it is bound 
to the boy who became the Bramble King, but each is 
convinced the crown will be swayed to its side with time 
and persuasion. They briefly set aside their differences to 
attack intruders.
Development. The Bramble Crown’s centuries of being 
attuned to the boy-turned-Bramble-King have given it a 
limited sentience and tied it inexorably to the Bramble 
King. It desires to be returned to him and projects this 
desire continuously at whichever creature is holding 
it. If the bearer promises to return the crown to the 
Bramble King, it quiets its projections for 1 hour. It can 
sense the direction of the Bramble King and grows more 
insistent if its bearer carries it in the opposite direction. 
The Bramble Crown is not happy being worn by any 
creature other than the Bramble King and only tolerates 
such creatures for 1 hour. Afterward, it becomes quiescent 
and appears nonmagical until a creature it believes can 
return it to the Bramble King is within 30 feet. Once such 
a creature is within range, it calls out to the creature for 
assistance in returning it. 
PCs attempting to take a clipping from the crown for 
Daesanderena face a challenge: it is physically impossible 
to cut the crown unless the crown permits it. A successful 
DC 18 Charisma (Persuasion) check convinces the 
crown to allow a PC take a clipping. A PC has advantage 
on this check if it promises to return the crown to the 
Bramble King.

--- PAGE 26 ---
24
Concluding the Adventure
If the PCs return the Bramble Crown to the Bramble 
King, he is delighted and rewards them with a bag 
of bramble beasts (see Appendix). Because of the 
PCs’ assistance, the Bramble King is open to making 
an arrangement with the nearby village for mutual 
protection. This gives the Bramble King a little more 
insight into his neighbors and the goings-on of the area 
outside his section of the forest. It also provides the 
villagers safe passage into parts of the forest to harvest 
herbs and fruits, though the Bramble King doesn’t agree 
to allow logging in the forest. Finally, if the PCs have 
been unable to obtain a clipping from the crown, 
the Bramble King gives them one.
The Weft of Shadows is aware of Daesanderena’s 
involvement, and if the PCs encountered the shadows in 
Area 4, it becomes aware of them as her champions. If 
the PCs destroy the shadow with the copy of the Bramble 
Crown, the Weft of Shadows is annoyed at the setback 
but doesn’t immediately plot revenge against the PCs 
unless they interfere again.
If the PCs return the clipping from the crown to 
Daesanderena, she pays them 100 gp, as promised.

--- PAGE 27 ---
25
THE EMPTY VILLAGE
This adventure begins in Fjellgard, a remote village in 
Trollheim (in the Northlands), and leads to the Shadow 
Realm. It can easily be adapted to any isolated settlement.
Adventure Background
For centuries, the cheshirians have stalked prey on 
Midgard from a seldom-traveled section of the Shadow 
Realm they call the Forlorn Roads. Their peculiar 
magic allows them to reach from the Shadow Realm 
into Midgard and drag their victims onto the Forlorn 
Roads. These lost and bewildered creatures then become 
easy prey for the cheshirians. Fortunately, it is only the 
inhospitable Northlands that are tied to the Forlorn 
Roads, preventing the cheshirians from hunting far 
across Midgard. It was during one of these hunts that 
the cheshirian Ariaira witnessed a group of adventurers 
rescuing a comrade she had transported to the Forlorn 
Roads. Seeing the group’s heroism and comradery 
awoke a desire for companionship in Ariaira—a desire 
foreign to the solitary cheshirians—and she began to 
comprehend the loneliness of her existence. While 
contemplating her new desires, she decided the best 
way to obtain friends was to do something brave to help 
people, just like the adventurers she saw. 
Such an opportunity arose, at least in her mind, when 
she stumbled upon a death cult intending to bring 
about the end of existence by calling forth a powerful, 
fiery demon lord to flood the world by destroying the 
ice in the Northlands. Knowing she couldn’t stop the 
catastrophe, she decided the best thing she could do was 
move potential victims to her territory in the Forlorn 
Roads where they could avoid disaster.
Her first target was Fjellgard, a remote human village 
in Trollheim. Her efforts proved disastrous as nearly 
everyone she pulled into her realm became fearful or 
aggressive. Her attempts to calm people by describing the 
apocalyptic future awaiting them only made the situation 
worse. Fearful of the cheshirian, some attacked her while 
many others fled. Confused, she retreated, leaving the 
villagers scattered throughout the caves she called home. 
To make matters worse, Kettek, another cheshirian 
who had been hiding unnoticed nearby, grew jealous of 
Ariaira’s “hoarding all the prey for herself.” He brought 
in a host of monsters to join him in hunting the people of 
Fjellgard without Ariaira’s knowledge after she ran from 
the villagers.
Adventure Hooks
A courier acting on behalf of Uffi Toothless tasks the 
PCs with checking on the village of Fjellgard. The jarl 
expected a dispatch from the village 2 days ago and has 
not received it. The courier offers 100 gp for the PCs to 
discover the reason for the delayed dispatch and deal 
with any troubles the village might be experiencing 
that are causing the delay. Alternatively, the PCs may 
travel to Fjellgard to meet with a sage in the village 
who has information the PCs need. Or the PCs simply 
could be looking for the nearest place for shelter in the 
unforgiving Northlands. 
Half-Eaten Food, Still Warm
Ariaira planned the village’s forced evacuation carefully. 
She selected a couple of young children to whisk away 
first. After speaking with the children to convince them 
of the game they were playing, she picked up enough 
of their voices to mimic them. She pretended to be the 
children to lure other villagers to a small clearing north 
of Fjellgard where she had found a way to temporarily 
thin the divide between Midgard and her lair in the 
Forlorn Roads. By some quirk of the magic that allowed 
her to create the portal, any creature that passed through 
the portal was stuck in the Forlorn Roads unless it used 
the same portal to leave the realm. Within days, the 
missing villagers became a lure in and of itself for the 
other villagers, quickly depopulating Fjellgard. Proud 
of her accomplishments, she was utterly unprepared to 
handle the villagers’ reactions to her “good deed.”
When the PCs approach Fjellgard, they spy the 
familiar sights and smell the familiar scents of a thriving 
village. Smoke from various fires rises above the 
buildings, dogs give chase to one another just outside 
the village, the aroma of a freshly cooked communal 
meal wafts gently by as the wind shifts. A successful DC 
For 2nd-Level Characters

--- PAGE 28 ---
26
14 Wisdom (Perception) check notices that there are no 
sounds coming from the village other than those made by 
animals. There is no metal-on-metal sound from a smith, 
no sawing or hammering of wood, and most eerily, no 
conversation or shouting of children.
As the PCs pass into the village proper, they see no 
inhabitants. It looks as though everyone in the village left 
in the middle of their meal. The relative heat of the food 
and the state of the cookfires indicate the villagers left 
scant minutes before the PCs arrived. PCs who investigate 
notice no signs of struggle and no bloodshed. The weapons 
in the village rest in scabbards or on walls, or they are 
propped up against chairs, showing a lack of violence. The 
villagers’ homes reveal no obvious attempts to flee the 
village. Necessities for travel, such as warm clothing and 
blankets, remain where they should be. Likewise, the PCs 
find personal treasures like gems and family jewelry in 
many homes. Unscrupulous PCs can gather various items 
worth a total of 50 gp from the homes.
A successful DC 14 Intelligence (Investigation) or 
Wisdom (Survival) check notices a large amount of 
recent tracks that lead out of the village to a clearing 
north of Fjellgard. As the PCs approach the clearing, 
a successful DC 12 Wisdom (Perception) check hears 
faint cries for help, originating from the clearing. These 
cries come from an invisible and out-of-phase Ariaira, 
who has taken notice of the PCs. Since she is using 
voices unfamiliar to the PCs, they have disadvantage on 
their Wisdom (Insight) checks to determine whether 
the voices are fake. Each PC that enters the clearing is 
magically transported to Ariaira’s redoubt (see Meeting 
Ariaira and Area 5). 
The Forlorn Roads
The Forlorn Roads are in a perpetual twilight, like the 
rest of the Shadow Realm. Colors are muted, light doesn’t 
seem to penetrate the darkness as easily, and the entire 
realm is dimly lit by some unseen source. Ariaira’s lair is 
within a small cavern on the Forlorn Roads and unless 
otherwise stated is in complete darkness. 
MEETING ARIAIRA
Ariaira (a cheshirian, see Appendix) approaches the 
PCs when they arrive in Area 5. Knowing the PCs 
aren’t from the village, she hurriedly explains that she 
needs their help to calm the villagers. She states she is 
only trying to save them. If questioned about what she 
is saving them from, she mentions something big is 
coming and proclaims, “When the beacon is lit on top of 
the world, ice will fall and floods and fire will consume 
the world.” Ariaira assumes a dire warning will impress 
the severity of the situation on the PCs and get them to 
act on her behalf. 
A successful DC 12 Charisma (Deception or 
Persuasion) check assures Ariaira that the PCs are 
friendly, convincing her to reveal more information 
about her recent actions. She tells them about her 
attempt to be a hero, and she explains that she “rescued” 
the villagers because she overheard the death cult’s 
plans. She expresses shame at her lackluster first attempt 
at saving people, and she hopes the PCs can help her 
convince the villagers to hear her out. She understands if 
the villagers want to return to Fjellgard and agrees to let 
them return if the PCs can help her talk to them first. If 
the PCs insist on compensation for their assistance, she 
offers all she has in return for their help (see Area 5). If 
she is to return the villagers to Fjellgard, she will need 
to stay in Area 5 to protect the fragile link. If asked, she 
sketches out her lair in the dirt for the PCs (excluding 
Areas 11–14, of which she has no knowledge).
If the PCs attack Ariaira, she uses her Out of Phase 
ability and flees, returning regularly to make furtive 
attempts to convince them of her sincerity.
AREA 1: HUNTING PARTY
Despite the cheshirians’ general dislike of other fey, 
Kettek found it expedient to involve three fraughashar 
(see Tome of Beasts) in his hunt for the villagers. Kettek 
knew he wouldn’t be able to hunt all of the villagers at 
one time, and the fraughashar were easy to persuade into 
joining him in his sadistic scheme. The arrival of the PCs 
alleviates the fraughashars’ growing boredom. While 
they prefer to dispatch intruders themselves, they have 
no problem goading the PCs into Area 3 where they 
know Kettek’s hunting “hounds” rest.
AREA 2: BROKEN STATUE
A single beli (see Tome of Beasts) awaits atop this 
terraced section of the caverns amid debris from an 
unidentifiable, tentacled statue. Allied to the fraughashar 
and curious about the spoils promised to them by Kettek, 
the beli invisibly followed the group to this realm where 
it remains unseen as it observes the fraghashar in Area 1. 
It only attacks when creatures other than its allies climb 
up to this area or if the PCs slay two of the fraughashar 
in Area 1.
AREA 3: HUNTER’S KENNEL
A pair of darkmantles, Kettek’s trained hunting 
companions, rest on the ceiling of this chamber above 
the headless bodies of four villagers. The two have been 
instructed to stay in this chamber until called by Kettek 
for another hunt, but they attack any creature that enters 
the room or disturbs the bodies of their latest meals.

--- PAGE 29 ---
27
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
AREA 4: CONSERVATORY OF THE DEAD
Kettek and his companions killed dozens of Fjellgard’s 
villagers in the initial assault. The bodies that weren’t 
immediately consumed were piled here for later. 
Unbeknownst to Kettek, one of his companions had 
violet fungus spores on its clothing. The spores quickly 
took hold in the remains, and now four full-grown violet 
fungi inhabit the room, steadily consuming the corpses. 
AREA 5: ARIAIRA’S REDOUBT
Ariaira keeps a modest room tucked into a hollowed-out 
rock abutting the new stream. The only entrance and exit 
is to the north, and it sits higher in the wall above the 
water line. A successful DC 10 Strength (Athletics) check 
is required to reach the entrance if the water level in 
Area 8 is below 5 feet. A slight shimmer in the air in the 
center of the hidden chamber is the only indicator of this 
room’s magical connection to Midgard.
Treasure. Ariaira keeps items she obtained from 
her hunts in a small recess, but her growing desire to 
be heroic and save people fills her with guilt when she 
thinks of them. She is happy to part with her treasures if 
the PCs are willing to help her. The recess holds a variety 
of rings, necklaces, and gems, totaling 150 gp.
AREA 6: DEN OF SPIES
Two spies in service to the Queen of Night and Magic 
hide in this room. They occasionally scout the remainder 
of the lair to give the shadow fey in Area 7 updates on 
Kettek and his followers. 
Nh

--- PAGE 30 ---
28
AREA 7: PORTAL-SEEKERS
The Queen of Night and Magic, aware of the cheshirians’ 
magical talents, sent four shadow fey (see Tome of 
Beasts) to investigate after she noticed a long-lasting 
cheshirian portal on the Forlorn Roads. These shadow 
fey haven’t seen Ariaira yet, but they know they are close 
to finding the location of the portal. The queen instructed 
them to destroy the source of the portal quietly and 
return without anyone the wiser to maintain peaceful 
relations with the cheshirians. Kettek’s presence has kept 
the shadow fey in hiding as they work to destroy the 
portal without being discovered. They see the PCs as an 
opportunity to achieve their goal without getting directly 
involved. 
If the PCs are open to conversation, the shadow fey 
offer them 50 gp to kill Kettek and destroy the portal. 
They promise an emissary of the Queen of Night and 
Magic will pay them on the Midgard side of the portal 
if it is successfully destroyed. They can’t help the PCs 
directly since their mission is a covert one, but they 
can let the PCs know that Kettek exists and that he has 
scattered allies throughout the lair. Like Ariaira, they 
are unaware of Areas 11–14 and can’t advise the PCs on 
those locations. 
AREA 8: THE COLD STREAM
After figuring out how to create the link to Midgard from 
her lair in the Forlorn Roads, Ariaira used her magic to 
divert a stream through her lair, so the villagers would 
have a fresh supply of water. Since she had never used 
her powers to do something as grand as this before, 
her initial attempt flooded the caverns. After letting the 
water level subside, she renewed her efforts. Her unstable 
magic causes the stream to vary in depth, either 2 or 5 
feet throughout the day. When the stream is lower, it is 
difficult terrain. When it is higher, a successful DC 10 
Strength (Athletics) check is required to stay afloat. A 
creature with a swimming speed automatically succeeds 
on this check.
AREA 9: PROWLING THE RUINS
Three snowcats (see Creature Codex), more of Kettek’s 
hunting pets, prowl this area, which is dimly lit by 
torchlight that is leaking through the blockade built by 
Fjellgard’s villagers in Area 10. The blockade frustrates 
the snowcats, and they dislike the stream cutting off the 
rest of the lair. They are hungry and perk up at the arrival 
of the PCs. If they hear commotion from the stream, 
they hide within the ruined building where they wait to 
launch an ambush. 
AREA 10: LAST STAND OF FJELLGARD
Fifteen villagers (use commoner statistics for the five 
of them that are old enough and well enough to fight) 
banded together in this easily defensible section of the 
lair. Under the leadership of a guard named Jakob, 
they grabbed what material they could, while avoiding 
the monsters stalking them, and erected a makeshift 
barrier. They attempted to leave as few gaps as possible 
to avoid being targeted by arrows, so their field of view 
is limited. The villagers are distrustful of everything they 
hear, believing it to be more lies from the cheshirians. A 
successful DC 14 Charisma (Persuasion) check convinces 
the villagers that the PCs mean them no harm. It requires 
a successful DC 12 Strength (Athletics) check to breach 
the barrier. If the PCs attempt to breach the barrier 
without the villagers’ permission, the villagers attack as 
soon as they have an opening.
AREA 11: KETTEK’S LOBBY
The entrance to a hidden section of Ariaira’s lair escaped 
her notice when she first settled here. Kettek, who 
intentionally sought a secret place from which he could 
observe Ariaira, quickly found the door to this area 
and made himself at home in the confines beyond. A 
successful DC 13 Intelligence (Investigation) check finds 
the almost invisible seams marking the door. The door is 
unlocked, but it is trapped.
Shard Sphere Trap. When a creature opens the door, 
a rusted iron sphere falls to the ground and explodes in 
a shower of metal shards. Each creature within 15 feet 
of the door must make a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw, 
taking 11 (2d10) piercing damage on a failed save or half 
as much damage on a successful one.
	 Prevention. A successful DC 14 Intelligence 
(Investigation) check locates a lead wire from the door 
connected to a group of wires holding the sphere in place 
overhead. A successful DC 12 Dexterity (thieves’ tools) 
check disables the lead wire harmlessly. A character 
without thieves’ tools can attempt this check with 
disadvantage using any edged weapon or edged tool. On 
a failed check, the trap triggers.
STATUS IN MIDGARD
If you are using Status (see Midgard Worldbook) and 
the PCs return the survivors to Fjellgard, the PCs gain 
+2 to their Status with the villagers and +1 with Uffi 
Toothless. If the PCs honor any promise they made 
with the shadow fey, they gain +1 to their Status with 
the Queen of Night and Magic and her allies within the 
Court of the Shadow Fey, but they suffer a −1 if they do 
not. These modifiers stack with similar Status modifiers 
the PCs may possess.

--- PAGE 31 ---
29
AREA 12: SAVED FOR LATER
Eight villagers (use commoner statistics) are locked 
in this room, Kettek’s prisoners. If they hear the PCs 
attempting to break into the room, they try to gain the 
PCs’ attention. They are afraid of Kettek and welcome 
any attempt at rescue. Unfortunately, they do not have 
the tools to disable the lock and have spent their time 
formulating plans to rush the cheshirian when he comes 
for them. If the PCs free the villagers before confronting 
Kettek, six of the villagers rush to Area 10 to rejoin their 
families while two stay with the PCs to seek vengeance 
against the cheshirian.
Locked Door. The door leading into this chamber is 
locked. A successful DC 15 Dexterity (thieves’ tools) 
check picks the lock. Kettek in Area 13 possesses the key 
to this lock.
AREA 13: KETTEK’S DOMICILE
The cheshirian (see Appendix) Kettek resides here, 
devising a plan to capture the remaining villagers in 
Area 10. When the PCs arrive, he attempts to deceive 
them into believing Ariaira is a monster hiding behind 
pleasantries. He claims she was the one who brought 
all the creatures to terrorize and kill the villagers. He 
further tries to convince the PCs he is working to rescue 
the villagers. To bolster this ruse, he makes a show 
of magnanimously offering to return the villagers to 
their home. He falsely explains that he has captured 
the villagers in Area 12 to help him convince the larger 
group in Area 10 to allow him to teleport them all back 
home at once—an easier feat than teleporting them 
individually. No matter how the situation plays out, he 
uses his Out of Phase action and leaves only his smiling 
mouth visible as he talks.
Kettek has a constant dagger (see Appendix) and uses 
it in place of one of his claw attacks. The chamber holds 
a comfortable mattress, which the cheshirian stole from 
another village, but is otherwise sparse.
AREA 14: ILL-GOTTEN GAINS
Kettek stores a smattering of items taken from his 
victims here. The cheshirian expects no one to make it 
this far, so the treasure is unguarded and in plain sight. 
This chamber houses a potion of healing and a collection 
of coins, gems, and jewels, worth a total of 250 gp.
Concluding the Adventure
If Ariaira survives and the PCs help her explain her 
motives to the villagers, she becomes an ally of the PCs. 
She doesn’t join them on adventures, but she keeps an 
eye on them while they are in the Northlands. She might 
come to their aid in a time of need or pull them into 
the Forlorn Roads just in time to save them from a bad 
situation. Before they leave, she asks the PCs to teach 
her how to be heroic, and she works to improve the lives 
of others through her peculiar magic—starting with 
helping the villagers of Fjellgard.
If Ariaira does not end the adventure on good 
terms with the PCs, she reverts to her old hunting 
habits after the PCs escape through her portal with 
the villagers. She works to undermine the PCs while 
they are in the Northlands, subjecting them to 
inconvenient or dangerous practical jokes.
If Kettek survives, he seeks revenge on the PCs. If 
he survives and Ariaira was rejected by the PCs, he 
sways her to his side, and they hunt the PCs together. 
Kettek actively targets friends and relatives of the 
PCs, advertising his involvement in their accidents 
or deaths.
If the PCs promised to slay Kettek and destroy 
the portal for the shadow fey in Area 7 (Ariaira 
permanently disables the portal after the villagers 
are returned to Fjellgard if the PCs help her talk 
to them), the Queen of Night and Magic sends an 
emissary with the promised 50 gp to the PCs. She 
makes note of their assistance and may seek out the 
PCs in the future.
If the PCs rescue the villagers, the people of 
Fjellgard offer 50 gp worth of jewelry and general 
supplies as a reward. They host a feast in the PCs’ 
honor and commemorate the event annually. The 
PCs can broker a peace between Ariaira, if she 
survives, and Fjellgard, and she promises to watch 
over the village—without stealing them away to the 
Forlorn Roads.
If the PCs were contacted by Uffi Toothless, then 
after the villagers return to Fjellgard and recover 
the dispatcher, the jarl’s courier pays the PCs the 
promised 100 gp.

--- PAGE 32 ---
30
THE BAGIENNIK GAME
This adventure takes place near Tuwold, a small 
hamlet east of Reywald and nestled at the edge of the 
Arbonesse Forest (in the Grand Duchy of Dornig), 
but it can be adapted to any swampy location on the 
outskirts of civilization. 
Adventure Background
Little man of wood and soil, angry first then sad and 
loyal, strange faerie of inconstant mood, your rooty home 
so soft and crude...
In humble Tuwold, the youth have invented a deadly 
game. The lair of an inconstant bagiennik (see Tome 
of Beasts)—within the ruined chambers of an elven 
temple buried under the swamp—has been discovered 
not far from the hamlet. The youth have been taunting 
the creature, hoping to have it knock them unconscious 
where they “die” for a short time before being revived 
by the bagiennik. Otherwise, they’ve not explored the 
sopping elven ruins. 
The story begins when one of the participants 
in the game doesn’t return home. Concerned, the 
hamlet elders send word to the city of Reywald asking 
for adventurers to investigate. Arriving in Tuwold, 
the characters are met by irate adults and nervous 
youngsters who are reluctant to tell the truth. Whether 
they gain the youths’ trust or not, the party strikes out to 
find the missing child.
Arriving at the ruins, the characters discover quickly 
that the bagiennik isn’t the only inhabitant. The lord 
of the ruins, a foul-tempered far darrig (see Tome of 
Beasts), has taken the unconscious boy from the agitated 
bagiennik into the depths of the ruins. As they search 
for the youth, the party discovers the temple is overrun 
with dark fey that have no intention of allowing the 
party access to their home. A watery and muddy tromp 
through the ruins eventually leads to a confrontation 
with the far darrig who might trade for the boy but 
otherwise must be defeated. 
Tuwold
Tuwold is a small community less than an hour walk 
from Reywald. Its chief export is timber from the nearby 
forest. There is a general goods store that sells most 
common equipment and provisions for market price. 
It has no inn, but a single-room bar, named Lost Steps, 
serves surprisingly good beer. Once a year, some nobles 
from Reywald come to drink the beer and spend a 
weekend “roughing it” in tents near the hamlet.
Ulran, Missing Youth (NPC). Ulran (commoner) 
was nabbed by the far darrig before the bagiennik could 
restore him. The children fled when this occurred. Ulran 
is currently alive and unconscious in the far darrig’s lair 
in the elven ruins.
Tomra, Village Elder (NPC). Tomra (veteran) is a 
retired guard from Reywald. He is handy with an axe 
and shield, and he knows his way around bows and 
crossbows. He is an older man with a broad frame and 
close-cut silver hair. He has managed to extract the detail 
of where the children were playing from them but little 
more. He is a good-hearted man with sincere concern for 
the youth. If the party requires support, he is willing to 
join them as a combatant (taking a share of the XP). He 
offers each character a sack of 50 gp if they help find the 
boy. He has a +1 handaxe that he is willing to part with if 
the characters require more payment.
Ina, Halson, and Gralich (NPCs). The three reluctant 
youths (commoners) are currently at their respective 
homes. The families will allow the characters access to 
the youths for a few minutes provided they have Tomra’s 
blessing. Ina is deeply traumatized by the experience, and 
she will reveal nothing unless a calm emotions spell is cast 
on her, at which point she reveals the fate of Ulran. Halson 
is terrified of the consequences of telling the truth, but he 
can be coaxed into revealing what happened to Ulran with 
a DC 17 Charisma (Persuasion) check. 
Gralich tells twelve different versions of the story, and 
he believes it is all a game. A zone of truth spell or a DC 17 
Charisma (Intimidation) check forces him to tell the truth.
The Game. The game is simple: taunt the Bagiennik 
into beating you unconscious and then awaken from its 
healing magic. It’s an exhilerating rush but also a terrible 
idea brought about by the carelessness of youth.
For 3rd-Level Characters

--- PAGE 33 ---
31
Exploring the Ruins
Tomra or any of the youth can direct the party to the 
location of the ruins. You may require a DC 12 Wisdom 
(Survival) check to ensure they find it quickly. The forest 
beyond the hamlet is filled with beastly things, and you 
may have the characters encounter such creatures before 
arriving at the ruins.
Lord of the Ruins. Ingyf, a far darrig and the current 
lord of the sunken elven ruins, is an old, cantankerous 
creature. He is unsure what he will do with Ulran, 
though many of the other fey in his lair encourage him 
to eat the poor youth. Ingyf likes magical items, and in 
particular, he likes staves and wands. When confronted 
in his lair, he does not attack immediately and suggests 
a trade. The party can make such an exchange to avoid 
combat with Ingyf. If they plan to retrieve such an item 
and bring it back, make it clear that Ulran might not 
survive another hour in this dark and wet place.
STATUS IN MIDGARD
If you are using Status (see Midgard Worldbook) and the 
PCs rescue the lost boy, the PCs gain +2 to their Status 
with the residents of Tuwold and +1 with the residents 
of Reywald. These modifiers stack with similar Status 
modifiers the PCs may possess.
2
2
3
4
5
1
6
5
N
h
5
CRUMBLED WALL

--- PAGE 34 ---
32

--- PAGE 35 ---
33
Magic of the Retreated Elves. Spells cast by clerics, 
druids, and paladins inside the ruins are cast one casting 
level above the declared level. This is considered a 
magical effect, and it does not impact the caster’s spell 
slots for the day.
AREA 1: MAIN ENTRY AND SHRINE
The once beautiful elven temple is now barely recognizable 
as the ever-encrouching swamp has reclaimed most of its 
earlier splendor.
The main entry is partially submerged in the swamp 
water and is blocked by roots and debris. A small 
shrine just before the blocked doors was ransacked 
long ago, and its contents are smashed. A DC 16 
Wisdom (Perception) check reveals a hidden button 
in a stone stand that can be pressed to reveal a hidden 
compartment. The compartment contains 43 gp of the 
old elvish style.
AREA 2: BAGIENNIK LAIR
These chambers can be accessed from the exterior 
through a crumbled wall. The Bagiennik is resting in the 
innermost lair, and his wasp friends (swarm of insects) 
fly through the other chambers freely. They attack and 
defend their lair. The bagiennik is upset by his inability 
to restore Ulran (an instinctual rather than morale 
frustration), and therefore, he will not restore any 
creatures he knocks unconscious.
AREA 3: THE HALL OF MUD
This long snaking corridor is filled with a foot of stinking 
mud. It is considered difficult terrain.
AREA 4: SUBMERGED PRAYER ROOM
This chamber is almost entirely submerged in muddy 
water. Two boloti (see Tome of Beasts) live in the 
brackish water, and they delight in drowning their 
victims. PCs who spend time swimming and searching 
(DC 18 Perception) here are rewarded with a pair of 
greater potions of healing in fine glass bottles.
AREA 5: TEMPLE STORES
The large chamber is pitch black and covered in fungal 
growth. Stone shelves, smashed along the wall, sit 
empty. The water is shallow, and the air is close and 
smells fetid. Five violet fungi grow here and will attack 
when the party is close. Each time a violet fungus dies, a 
poisonous snake slithers out of its innards and attacks 
the nearest PC.
To the South. In the southernmost storeroom lies 
a bucca nest. This small chamber has several narrow 
tunnels to the exterior, which let in fresh air and allow 
the three buccas (see Tome of Beasts) that live here 
to come and go as they please. With a successful DC 
16 Wisdom (Perception) check, a character spots a 
simple snare trap at the door that triggers when a Small 
or larger creature steps into the room; a successful 
DC 15 Dexterity (thieves’ tools) check disarms the 
trap. Creatures caught in the snare must make a DC 15 
Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the creature 
is restrained until it uses an action to free itself. The 
buccas have amassed seven gemstones (50 gp each) and 
a pile of 112 gp.
AREA 6: INGYF’S LAIR 
(FORMER WORSHIPPING SPACE)
This round room has three makeshift curtains hung 
along its walls, hiding the contents of three small 
chambers. On a successful DC 16 Wisdom (Perception) 
check, a secret door is revealed in the western wall that 
leads back to Area 3 via a small hallway. The chamber 
is filled with branches and deadfall, and a few holes 
in the ceiling let in light and air. Ingyf mutters and 
wanders through his wet lair. Behind the curtains are his 
treasures and the living quarters for his pet. Near the far 
eastern wall is Ulran, the unconscious youth. 
Ingyf’s pet crocodile splashes through the shallow 
water and defends the far darrig and will attack any 
intruders on sight unless it is commaned to stop by 
Ingyf. Once during combat, Ingyf can animate the 
branches and deadfall on the floor, forcing any enemy 
standing in the room to make a DC 15 Dexterity saving 
throw. On a failed save, the creature is restrained until 
the end of its next turn.
Ingyf uses a wand of magic missile freely in combat. In 
one of the curtained chambers, he keeps a gilded elven 
strongbox filled with 200 gp, two common potions, and 
a finely carved owl made from gypsum (75 gp).
Concluding the Adventure
Ulran is unconscious but otherwise unharmed. He 
can be revived, but he is too weak to walk home. Once 
Ulran is carried back to the hamlet, his overjoyed 
parents thank the characters and offer them a humble 
meal in celebration.

--- PAGE 36 ---
34
THE WHITE WORG ACCORD
This adventure begins in Stannasgard and proceeds 
by boat to the western coast of Wolfheim (in the 
Northlands). It can be adapted to begin anywhere and 
end in some untamed northern region.
Adventure Background
One year ago, the great dragon Visandred the 
Horse‑Eater dropped from the sky and burned the 
once-famous Stannasgard shipyards and docks to ash. 
Many lost their fortunes that day, but one of the most 
crucial blows was suffered by the noble dwarf Wulfstan 
vom Meer whose fleet of merchant ships were nearly all 
docked at Stannasgard that day. Vom Meer lost every 
vessel save for one ship mercifully under sail at the time, 
and the once proud owner of a grand fleet now teeters on 
the brink of financial ruin.
Vom Meer still has trading contacts across the 
Nieder Straits with business relations in the ports of 
Donnermark, Gemport, Cassadega, Bemmea, Maillon, 
and many more. But without the ships to move goods, 
he is helpless to rebuild his wealth and influence. Now 
he plans to restore his trading empire by borrowing 
longships from a clan of young reaver dwarves in 
Wolfheim known as the White Worg Reavers. Reavers 
are not known for their conciliatory manners, but vom 
Meer has an edge. He claims a tenuous relation with the 
White Worgs: a second cousin named Knud Stoneson. 
Bolstered by this family relation and aided by the gift 
of several casks of the finest ale his remaining gold can 
buy, he hopes to persuade the reavers to allow this very 
temporary alteration in their typical methods while he 
moves trade goods back and forth across the Nieder 
Straits until he has enough capital to recreate his fleet.
With this in mind, the dwarf seeks adventurers to 
travel on his one remaining ship to the clan’s village. 
Vom Meer seeks to enlist the PCs to protect his vessel 
against any threats at sea and, upon reaching the White 
Worg Reavers, to negotiate as his representatives for 
the loan of two longships and their crew. Vom Meer 
offers 500 gp to anyone willing to undertake this task. 
However, unbeknownst to vom Meer, the Wolfheim clan 
has troubles of their own—a group of trollkin bandits 
known as the Mossback Raiders have been competing 
with the White Worgs for territory west of Wolfheim. 
Their rivalry is coming to a head. When the PCs arrive 
at the White Worg homestead, they learn that the reaver 
dwarves are recovering from a recent attack. Their 
homestead has been sacked and vom Meer’s relation, 
Knud Stoneson, has been slain. Without a family 
connection, Revna Ravenstone, the clan’s chief, will 
only agree to vom Meer’s proposal if the PCs will help 
rid them of this troublesome band of trollkin who have 
been a persistent thorn in the clan’s side. If the PCs are to 
succeed in their task and aid vom Meer in his return to 
fortune, then a reavin’ they must go. 
Adventure Hooks
Here are some ways to involve PCs in this adventure: 
•	 An acquaintance of the PCs tracks them down with 
news that a dwarven noble of Stannasgard is seeking 
adventurers. 
•	 The PCs have come to Stannasgard to partake in 
Volundag, the feast of Volund, god of smiths and fire, 
held each week in the Järnhall (see “Feast Halls of the 
Northlands” in Warlock Grimoire or in Warlock 9: The 
World Tree). While there, they make the acquaintance 
of vom Meer. Impressed with the PCs, vom Meer 
enlists them for his quest. Or perhaps they offended 
the dwarven noble or his kinfolk in some way and 
must instead work off the insult in conciliatory service. 
Or perhaps vom Meer asked the Grindstone Oracle 
how to best rebuild his wealth, and that sacred stone 
named the PCs in its response.
•	 Vom Meer is a relative of a dwarf in the party 
who sends a courier asking his kinfolk for help in 
rebuilding the family name and fortune after the 
devastation of Visandred’s attack. 
•	 The PCs are seeking passage east out of the port at 
Donnermark, and vom Meer offers them transport in 
exchange for service. 
For 3rd-Level Characters

--- PAGE 37 ---
35
Trouble at Sea
This adventure begins as the PCs board vom Meer’s 
ship, Wellenreiter, a fully crewed sailing ship under the 
captaincy of a dwarf named Torsten Meeresohn (scout). 
In addition to the regular stores for the trip, vom Meer 
has sent three casks of fine beer intended to help smooth 
negotiations with the reaver dwarves. He may also, at the 
GM’s discretion, offer the PCs one or more potions of 
healing to help them through the dangers ahead. 
The journey from Stannasgard to the western coast 
of Wolfheim is over 300 miles. Traveling east by boat 
through the Nieder Straits will take approximately 6-1/2 
days. If desired, the PCs may engage in such downtime 
activities as the ship permits. Regardless, roll once a day 
for an encounter at sea or simply choose two to three 
encounters from the list. 
LONGSHIPS ATTACK
Irrespective of other encounters, once the Wellenreiter 
is within a day of Wolfheim’s western coast, the 
ship will be attacked by two longships bearing eight 
trollkin bandits (see Appendix). If the PCs are below 
decks, Captain Meeresohn calls them up to help repel 
the invaders. When they are all above deck, read or 
paraphrase the following: 
Two longships are approaching out of the northeast. 
Powered by long oars in strong arms, they come speeding 
across the waves and overtake you in mere moments. As 
they near, you see that the dragonhead carvings on their 
bows are not these vessel’s fiercest aspect: they are crewed 
by mottled, green-and-gray-skinned raiders of a fierce 
lineage—the trollkin. Protected by the shields mounted to 
the sides of their vessels, they bear down upon you, rowing 
hard to come up along the port and starboard sides of the 
Wellenreiter. “Prepare to repel enemy boarders,” shouts 
Captain Meeresohn. “Adventurers,” cries the salty dwarf, 
“time to earn your pay!”
These trollkin are part of the same group of Mossback 
Raiders who attacked the White Worgs. They are junior 
members of the outlaw group known as trollkin bandits 
(see Appendix). Trollkin bandits are not as strong as 
the more powerful trollkin raiders and reavers but still 
a threat. As they approach, the longships move to either 
CONTINUED ADVENTURING
One of the two hooks for the Warlock Lair 13: Bastion 
of Rime & Salt proposes that the PCs are hired by 
a noble family of Stannasgard looking to claim the 
abandoned fortress of Binalric. These two adventures 
can be linked if vom Meer is that same noble who 
sought to restore Binalric as a way of bolstering his 
reputation or if he is another noble who heard of their 
exploits in service to a fellow family of Stannasgard 
and now wants to enlist the PCs for a second task to 
benefit his city.
SEA ENCOUNTERS
d20 
Encounter and Tactics
1–14 
No encounter occurs. 
15 
Two sahuagin climb onto the deck of the Wellenreiter during the night and creep below decks in search of loot. 
16 
A severe storm washes several sailors overboard. The captain calls “all hands on deck” to help navigate the 
waters. PCs must make a DC 15 group Wisdom (Survival) check or add 1 additional day of travel time. 
17 
A pack of rum gremlins (see Tome of Beasts) are discovered ransacking the beer barrels meant for the reaver 
dwarves. The pesky fairies need to be dealt with before they drink their way through all the stores. 
18 
A dwarven vættir (see Tome of Beasts) rises from the Drownstone Road, from below the Nieder Straits, and demands 
tribute of 100 gp. If rebuffed, the vættir casts bestow curse on the party member of highest status, targeting an ability 
score. It will only remove the curse if the party member pays its tribute, either immediately or on the return journey. 
The vættir does not stay to fight after the curse has been bestowed. 
(Note, for GMs without access to the Tome of Beasts, replace this encounter with a sea hag. She rises from the depths 
and climbs aboard the ship, disguised as a trollkin. She seeks out the PC with the highest Charisma score. Concocting 
a story about having escaped from pirates, she tries to lure them away for a private conversation where she can attack 
them in an attempt to mar their comeliness.)
19 
Mutineers decide to take the ship for themselves. 2d4 sailors (bandits) plan to kill everyone and dump the bodies 
in the sea. They surrender or flee by jumping overboard if reduced to half their number.
20 
A will-o-wisp appears circling the mast, attacking a sailor in the crow’s nest. Even if driven off, the sailors think 
this an ill omen. They are keen to blame any elves traveling with the party for this apparition as well. Add a day of 
travel time after the attack to account for failed nerves and silly superstitions.

--- PAGE 38 ---
36
side of the Wellenreiter. The shields mounted to their 
sides give the trollkin half cover against any attacks from 
the Wellenreiter, three-quarters cover against attacks 
from a level position (such as from one longship to 
another or from someone walking on the water, should 
such a circumstance arise). Each trollkin bandit carries 
two handaxes. They will throw one when they are 
alongside vom Meer’s ship, retaining the second handaxe 
for melee combat when they board (climbing up the 
Wellenreiter’s sides takes one full movement). Once they 
reach the Wellenreiter’s deck, the trollkin will attempt to 
subdue any and all defenders before heading belowdecks 
to raid the ship’s stores. The trollkin will not surrender 
when wounded, trusting to their regeneration to stay in 
the fight. However, if the trollkin bandits are reduced 
to less than half their number, they will flee (without 
disengaging), attempting to all board one ship and 
leaving the other behind. 
If any of the Mossback Raiders are captured alive, they 
are tight-lipped and will only speak after a successful 
Charisma (Intimidation or Persuasion) check. However, 
the threat of fire grants advantage to any such check.
CHARISMA (INTIMIDATION OR PERSUASION)
Check Result 
10–14 
The trollkin are part of the Mossback Raiders, 
several allied clans operating in the Northlands. 
15–19
Most recently, the Mossbacks attacked a 
homestead of reaver dwarves, making off with 
two of their longships and plenty of their stores. 
They killed several of the reaver dwarves in the 
fight.
20
These particular Mossback Raiders have a 
compound on the western shore of Wolfheim, 
a small village once belonging to a group of 
humans. Their leader has a powerful magic item 
that protects her from harm. It is a necklace 
known as the baleful eye of Chernobog, and its 
powers affect dwarves (see Appendix).
Ruins of the White Worg 
Reaver Village
The morning following the trollkin attack, the 
Wellenreiter arrives at the White Worg Reaver 
homestead, a small cluster of longhouses between woods 
and shoreline. Read or paraphrase the following: 
You see the smoke billowing from the land before you 
see the homestead. A collection of four longhouses stand 
to the north side of a small river, emptying quietly into 
the sea, but three of the longhouses are burning, and the 
planks of the small wooden pier are shattered near its end. 
Something has gone down here recently, and it didn’t go 
well for the dwarves. You see several of them now moving 
about the homestead, putting out fires and clearing debris 
without much speed or enthusiasm. Captain Meeresohn 
orders the Wellenreiter to drop anchor and instructs his 
crew to ready a rowboat to carry you to shore. “I don’t 
know what happened here, but your mission may be over 
before it starts,” the captain tells you. “Or who knows, 
perhaps the White Worgs will be more open to diplomacy 
after whatever setback they have suffered. Be what may, 
may Volund aid you in your quest.”
When the players step ashore, they will be greeted 
without much enthusiasm by Revna Ravenstone, the 
leader of the White Worg Reavers. She will inform them 
that their homestead was recently hit by the Mossback 
Reavers, a band of trollkin that have been invading the 
White Worgs’ territory for some time. The Mossbacks 
slew several dwarves, including vom Meer’s relation, 
Knud Stoneson. They stole the dwarves’ longships and 
also made away with an albino worg pup, which the 
reavers view as something between a sacred animal and 
a mascot. 
What Revna Ravenstone will not volunteer easily is 
that the White Worgs did not acquit themselves bravely 
in the raid on their homestead. Instead, several of the 
dwarves became uncharacteristically frightened and ran 
from the attack. Revna does not know that the trollkin 
possess a magical item known as the baleful eye of 
Chernobog that specifically targets dwarves. She would be 
extremely relieved to know that their performance at the 
battle had everything to do with dark magic and nothing 
to do with natural cowardice.
In addition to Ravenstone, there are seven other 
dwarves, four men and three women, left in the White 
Worg Reavers. Their names are Skarde Cleft Chin, 
Gorm the Pious, Frode Foul-Farter, Thordis Sound-
Filler, Randi All-Men’s-Sister, Hilda Twist Breeks, and 
Tora Wild Bear. Revna Ravenstone uses the statistics 
of a veteran, but she carries a battleaxe instead of a 
longsword. The other dwarves all use the statistics of a 
thug, though also with a battleaxe in place of the usual 
mace. (Note, for GMs with access to the Tome of Beasts, 
use the statistics of a wolf reaver dwarf for Revna 
Ravenstone instead if preferred.)
When the PCs present vom Meer’s proposal, Revna 
will inform them that as the Mossback Raiders stole their 
longships, the White Worgs have no vessels to offer and 
aren’t able to agree to the noble dwarf’s terms even if 
they were inclined to, which they aren’t since their only 
connection to vom Meer was just slain. However, Revna 
has a counter proposal. She wants her ships, her worg 
pup, and her loot returned, and she desperately wants the

--- PAGE 39 ---
37
chance to regain her lost honor. Revna would like to make 
a retaliatory raid against the trollkin, but she doesn’t 
think she has the numbers on her own after this attack. If 
the PCs are willing to become honorary members of the 
White Worg Reavers, she feels that together they’d have 
sufficient strength to pay the Mossbacks back for their 
transgressions. After a successful attack on the trollkin, 
Revna would certainly reconsider vom Meer’s proposal, 
seeing as how it would come from honorary clan 
members who had shed blood and cracked trollkin skulls 
alongside her brothers and sisters.
If the players agree to Revna’s suggestion, she invites 
them into the one remaining intact longhouse for a 
pre-battle feast, during which they will become honorary 
clan members through the act of drinking, brawling, 
and gaming alongside the reaver dwarves. (What better 
way could there be?) It is not necessary for all the PCs 
to participate in all the activities. However, they should 
partake in some of them, or the White Worgs will 
become suspicious of their honor and commitment. 
Winning at these games is not as important as bravery, 
willingness, and being a good sport. The White Worgs 
put a lot of stock in bravado and participation as well 
as in smiling broadly as you take your lumps. Note that 
being caught cheating at anything will result in a severe 
loss of respect from Revna and her clan with the cheater 
being subject to disadvantage on any ability checks for 
social interaction with the dwarves going forward.
If the players refuse Revna’s proposal, and unless they 
have a really compelling alternative proposition, Revna 
will become unfriendly and suggest the PCs leave her 
alone to see to her ransacked home. Should dialogues 
break down further, it’s even possible that the White 
Worg Reavers may decide that the best course of action 
for them is to subdue the party and take the Wellenreiter 
for themselves. However, before things descend into such 
a sour turn, GMs might decide that the Mossback Raiders 
return for a second attack, nipping dwarf/PC hostilities 
in the bud before things go too far.
Not surprisingly, the reaver dwarves enjoy feats of 
strength, games of skill and luck, and heavy imbibing 
of alcohol. The following optional rules are offered for 
brawling (essentially boxing), drinking, and playing a 
game of ten pins (essentially bowling) for GMs who 
want to roleplay the evening’s festivities. GMs are free to 
substitute their own games and rules in place of these or 
ignore all of this altogether and simply cut ahead through 
to the next morning with a bit of flavorful description 
and montage. Regardless, it should be an evening to 
remember, even if the PCs aren’t capable of recalling it 
all in the morning! 
OPTIONAL RULE: BRAWLING
•	 A match is 5 rounds.
•	 Combatants choose Strength (Athletics) or Dexterity 
(Acrobatics) as their fighting style.

--- PAGE 40 ---
38
•	 Combatants roll against each other. Highest number 
wins the round. Ties are rerolled.
•	 A critical hit or a win by more than 5 points is 
a possible knockout with the losing combatant 
making a Constitution roll to avoid being rendered 
unconscious—either at a DC equal to the knockout 
roll or at DC 15 (whichever is higher).
•	 Between rounds, combatants can choose to make 
a Charisma (Intimidation) or Dexterity (Sleight of 
Hand) roll to try to gain an advantage in the next 
round (angering or frightening the opponent, slipping 
a rock into a glove unnoticed, and so on). Combatants 
may make a Charisma (Performance) roll to try to 
get the spectators on their side for that extra boost of 
confidence that a cheering crowd grants a competitor.
•	 A barbarian can rage for advantage on a Strength 
check. Other bonuses may apply at the GM’s discretion. 
•	 A knockout wins automatically; otherwise, a win is 
best 3 out of 5 rounds.
The three casks of fine ale that vom Meer sent as a 
gift to the White Worg clan will be much appreciated 
additions for the evening’s festivities. Each mug of ale 
from the cask counts as one drink, and the Constitution 
saving throw after the limit of allowed drinks is set as 
DC 10. However, at a certain point in the evening, Hilda 
Twist Breeks will bring out some special honey mead 
that she insists is made from “mad magic bees” and 
attempt to entice one or more of the PCs to sample it. 
Whatever the veracity of her claims, each mug of this 
honey mead counts as two drinks and the Constitution 
saving throw is DC 12 after the allowed limit is reached.
Travel to the Trollkin Compound 
The morning after the feast, Revna Ravenstone wakes 
everyone with the sun, insisting on an early start. She 
leaves half the reavers to guard the homestead, taking 
Gorm the Pious, Frode Foul-Farter, and Tora Wild Bear 
with her on the raid.
The trollkin compound is 3 days journey north 
along the Wolfheim coast. Lacking their longships and 
believing the Wellenreiter too slow and too large to make 
a stealthy approach, Revna suggests the party trek along 
the coastline, using the forest for cover as needed. Roll 
once a day for an encounter as the party travels overland 
or simply choose one to two encounters from the list. 
Note, these encounters assume the White Worg Reavers 
are participating in combat alongside the PCs. If this is 
not the case, GMs might consider halving the number of 
creatures in each encounter.
The Trollkin Compound
As the PCs near the Mossback compound, Revna 
Ravenstone will suggest they move into the forest for 
cover. She will lead them over a slight slope to the edge 
of the woods where they can spy on the village without 
being seen. When they reach this vantage point, read or 
paraphrase the following:
Peering through the trees, you see that you are on a slight 
hill, looking down at a small village. Six longhouses are 
clustered to either side of a river, which empties into the 
sea where three longships are docked. A lookout tower 
stands at the water’s edge. A trollkin woman atop the 
tower makes a slow rotation, casting glances alternately at 
the forest and at the sea. Beyond the village, a trail leads 
into the woods, but where it goes you can’t ascertain.
Revna will recommend the party split up, with the 
PCs approaching from one direction while the dwarves 
approach from another. She is open to discussing 
strategies however and sees the wisdom in any 
OPTIONAL RULE: TEN PINS (BOWLING)
•	 Any number of contestants can play.
•	 Contestants choose either Strength (Athletics) or 
Dexterity (Acrobatics) as their bowling style. 
•	 A d20 is rolled with appropriate modifiers added.
•	 The result divided by 2 (rounded down) is the 
number of pins knocked over (maximum of 10). 
•	 A 1 is an automatic gutter ball, a critical hit is a strike 
and the contestant gets to add 10 points to his/her 
next score.
•	 The highest score after 5 rounds is the winner. Ties 
are resolved by additional rolls. Or perhaps more 
likely by brawling. 
OPTIONAL RULE: INEBRIATION
•	 A PC may imbibe a number of drinks equal to 1 plus 
double their Constitution modifier (minimum 1) 
without suffering any debilitating effects. This number 
resets after a short rest. For every drink over this limit, 
the PC must succeed on a DC 10 Constitution saving 
throw against poison or gain one level of exhaustion. 
Failure by 5 or more means the character also passes 
out and is unconscious.
•	 Particularly strong alcohol may count as more than one 
drink. Weaker alcohol, such as watered-down ale, only 
counts as half a drink. (The DC of the Constitution 
saving throw against poison is only 5 for watered-down 
ale and can be as high as 15 for stronger drinks.)
•	 After finishing a long rest, an inebriated character loses 
all but one level of exhaustion gained from drinking.

--- PAGE 41 ---
39
STATUS IN MIDGARD
If you are using Status (see Midgard Worldbook), 
Revna Ravenstone will address her comments to the 
PC with the highest Status. Furthermore, every PC who 
participates in the evening’s festivities will gain +1 to 
their Status in the Northlands and an additional +1 
after participating successfully in the raid alongside 
the reavers. Being caught out in a lie, cheating at any 
game or sport, or stealing from the White Worgs will 
result in –2 to their Status and may result in violence 
as well. These modifiers stack with similar Status 
modifiers the PCs may possess.
suggestion to remove the lookout in the tower before 
mounting an assault on the compound. Privately, Revna 
is still shaken from the failure of the dwarves’ nerves in 
the raid on their homestead. She’ll readily agree to any 
strategy that sees the PCs leading the assault and may 
prefer to send the PCs in first stealthily, waiting to charge 
to their support when the fighting breaks out.
TROLLKIN COMPOUND FEATURES 
The Mossback Raiders have made their compound in 
a once human village the trollkin “liberated” for their 
own use. It sits between the waters of a small bay and the 
forest. A lookout tower and two longhouses fall to one 
side of a stream while four longhouses cluster together 
on the other side. The stream has no bridge but is shallow 
enough to be forded where the two paths converge on 
opposite sides of its bank. (Crossing here counts as 
difficult terrain for movement purposes.) A little way 
from the compound, a cave in the hillside affords the 
Mossbacks a secure place to retreat when they are under 
threat. It is here they have secured the loot from their 
raiding as well as temporarily sequestered their young.
Lookout Tower. The 30-foot-tall stone tower might 
once have been a lighthouse. A shattered wooden door 
ASSAULT ON THE COMPOUND
GMs have a choice in how they want this to go. If you 
prefer, you can allow your players to each control 
one reaver dwarf as well as their own PC. This can 
make for a fun opportunity to engage in a fight with 
less concern for a character’s wellbeing (something 
perfectly suited to the reaver dwarves’ personalities). 
However, if you’d rather not split a player’s focus 
and you don’t want to roll for the reaver dwarves 
attack actions, then you can simply say that Revna 
Ravenstone leads her three followers in an attack on 
Area 6. She will be successful in slaying all the trollkin 
therein, but she will lose one of her own number. 
This conflict can preoccupy the dwarves while the 
players explore the rest of the compound, or the 
dwarves may see to the recovery of their longships 
after this assault. They can be as present or as 
absent as situations demand, coming in to save PCs 
should a fight prove too difficult or being rendered 
unconscious if their aid isn’t necessary.
WOLFHEIM OVERLAND ENCOUNTERS 
d20 
Location and Tactics 
1–14 
No encounter occurs. 
15 
Three dire wolves burst from the woods and attack the party. The wolves are famished, or they wouldn’t behave 
so desperately as to attack a large force. They fight until one wolf remains. However, due to their hunger, they 
can be easily distracted by food.
16 
Two ettercaps attack the party, making web attacks from the cover of the woods. They retreat if outnumbered, 
but if chased, the ettercaps lead their pursuers into a web where three giant wolf spiders await. The remains of a 
previous victim include a pouch with 16 sp and a diamond ring worth 15 gp.
17 
Six ice mephits disguised as shards of ice wait for the PCs to walk between them. The mephits then summon a 
fog cloud before launching an attack. 
18 
A lone barrow stands on a promontory overlooking the sea. A rusted broadsword is driven into the stone door, 
blocking the entrance. If the broadsword is removed—DC 10 Strength check—a specter of an ancient dwarf 
appears, attacking those who disturbed his resting place. Inside the grave are 130 gp and an ornately wrought 
but heavily tarnished crown. If cleaned up and polished, it would be worth 250 gp. The broadsword however is 
too rusted to be of any use or value.
19 
Four trollkin bandits (see Appendix) are spotted foraging for food for their tribe. They flee after only 2 rounds 
of combat but must be stopped lest they alert the Mossbacks of the impending raid.
20 
A white dragon wyrmling named Isstormr, flying overhead, spots the party and lands to investigate. She 
demands to know what they can give her to buy their lives and safe passage in her territory. A hapless coward, 
Isstormr is bluffing.

--- PAGE 42 ---
40
1
2
3
4
5
6
Tower
Tower
7
8
9
on the village side gives access to the ground level. A 
central spiral staircase runs upward through broken 
floors to the rooftop. However, 5 feet below the stair’s 
summit, the flagstones have crumbled away and been 
deliberately replaced in a precariously unstable position. 
Anyone failing a DC 10 Wisdom (Perception) check falls 
through the staircase, dropping 10 feet onto the steps 
below and taking 3 (1d6) bludgeoning damage. Failing 
a subsequent DC 10 Dexterity check here means they 
roll down the next 10 feet of steps for an additional 2 
(1d4) bludgeoning damage. Regardless, the noise alerts 
the trollkin bandit above who will sound the alarm by 
blowing a large horn and take the Ready action at the 
top of the staircase. Otherwise, the trollkin maintains 
her solitary vigil until interrupted. It takes her roughly 5 
minutes to meander a full circuit around the rooftop as 
she diligently studies the ocean and the forest. If she spots 
intruders approaching on the ground, she will sound 
the alarm before hurling a handaxe at any interlopers 
within range, and then she will charge down the staircase 
to engage. If accosted on the rooftop however, she will 
forget to sound the alarm and merely attack. 
Longhouses. The longhouses are sod-roofed, wooden 
dwellings, each roughly 20 feet wide and 20–40 feet 
long. The ceiling runs from 6 feet at the sides to 15 feet 
at the apex. The longhouses all have a fire pit in their 
exact center and a hole cut out in the rooftop overhead 
as an egress for smoke. The hole is wide enough to allow 
Medium or smaller creatures to crawl through into the 
rafters. All but one of the firepits (Area 2) are not in use.
AREA 1
Three worgs have been penned up in this longhouse. 
They will whine and bark if they detect any intruders 
sneaking alongside the walls or standing immediately 
outside the doorway. The worgs are often noisy, and 
their commotion isn’t loud enough to alert any of the 
nearby trollkin. However, if the door is opened, the 
worgs will come bounding out to attack. With more 
than 2 rounds of combat, the trollkin in Area 2 will 
come to investigate. The stream is sufficiently noisy for a 
dustup not to attract any attention from the longhouses 
across the water however.

--- PAGE 43 ---
41
AREA 2
Smoke can be seen wafting from the hole in the rooftop 
of this longhouse. Inside, two trollkin bandits and one 
trollkin raider (see Tome of Beasts 2) are very cautiously 
grilling a fish over a fire in the center of the room. 
When they spot the intruders, the raider, Broke Tooth, 
will order one of the two bandits to use an action to 
put out the fire while he and the other bandit attack. If 
extinguished, the fire can be rekindled in a single round 
due to how recently it was burning.
Treasure. The trollkin here carry nothing of value, but 
a tarnished weapon mounted on a crossbeam is actually 
a +1 handaxe in need of a good polish. The weapon can 
be spotted easily in any detailed search of the longhouse 
and does not require an ability check to find, though its 
magical nature will not be immediately obvious.
AREA 3
Two trollkin bandits, named Hates Bears and Burps 
Loudly, are sleeping off a bender in this longhouse. They 
celebrated too much after the recent raid and are all but 
dead to the world. They lie in filthy cots, one snoring 
loudly while the other sings incoherently in his sleep. 
Hates Bears and Burps Loudly each have three levels of 
exhaustion (speed halved and disadvantage on ability 
checks, attack rolls, and saving throws). Their weapons 
are on a table on the opposite side of the room from 
their cots. A coin purse hidden in the hollow leg of Hates 
Bears’s cot—DC 14 Wisdom (Perception) to spot—
contains 20 sp and a golden tooth worth 2 gp. In the 
event that Hates Bears encounters a werebear, bearfolk, or 
druid shapeshifted into bear form, he will become furious, 
targeting all of his attacks on that character regardless of 
the wisdom of this strategy. If the fight goes against them, 
the trollkin will attempt to flee to the caverns.
AREA 4
Anyone within 10 feet of this longhouse will be surprised 
to hear a beautiful song emanating from inside, 
accompanied by vicious laughter and rude heckling. 
The song comes from Golden Throat, a trollkin bandit 
blessed with a magnificent singing voice that she insists 
is a gift from the northern god Baldur. Whether this is 
true or not, Golden Throat dreams of becoming an actual 
bard one day. She has been considering freeing the bard 
prisoner, Bragi Skallagrimsson (see Area 5), with whom 
she has spoken, and fleeing with him to Skaldholm. 
Thus far, her fear of how a trollkin will be received in 
Skaldholm has forestalled any such attempt. 
The other trollkin bandits (see Appendix), two men 
and one woman, believe Golden Throat to be insane and 
tease and torment her for getting “above her station.” 
If a fight breaks out, Golden Throat won’t join in but 
will instead close her eyes and sing loudly, hoping that 
the PCs will recognize her value and, if not help her, at 
least leave her be to pursue her dream. If allowed to pass 
unmolested, she will muster the nerve to travel to Area 
5 and attempt to free Bragi. Remarkably, while Revna 
Ravenstone wants to put all other trollkin to the axe, if 
she hears Golden Throat’s story, she will agree to spare 
the wannabe bard as she reveres Baldur and would rather 
not chance offending the god if she can help it.
AREA 5
This longhouse is empty save for a prisoner. Bragi 
Skallagrimsson is a bard of Skaldholm (human, 1st-
level bard, neutral good). He is bound and gagged and 
tied to a cot. The gag is fairly loose however as Golden 
Throat has removed and replaced it several times. The 
other Mossbacks would have tortured and killed Bragi 
already, but he knows a secret about their cave, which 
he’s used as a bargaining chip to keep himself alive thus 
far. If freed, Bragi, an inveterate coward when it comes 
to combat, will not fight. He will however be willing to 
cast cure wounds or heroism on a member of the party. 
He promises a reward of 300 gp if he is returned safely to 
Skaldholm. He doesn’t have any money on him of course 
but is sure that he can get it.
Bragi’s Secret. Bragi knows of an entrance to the 
shadow road Shield Maiden’s Fancy. The entrance is 
located in Area 9. Bragi once heard a song in Skaldholm 
that told of the existence of the entrance as well as how 
to activate it. He traveled here to find out if the verses are 
true, unwittingly stumbling into the trollkin compound 
in the process. The song also hints at an intermittently 
appearing shadow road that connects Shield Maiden’s 
Fancy with the Raven’s Road. If accurate, Bragi might 
be able to use it to return to Skaldholm, something he 
would very much like to do.
AREA 6
Three trollkin bandits play dice games at a table. One 
of them, Cleft Ear, is winning, much to the annoyance 
of the other two. Cleft Ear was the one who found 
Bragi Skallagrimsson first. When he did, he lifted a 
gold bar worth 50 gp off the bard that Bragi brought as 
a requirement for the ritual to activate the ley line and 
open the shadow road. The gold bar is in a satchel hidden 
under a stone in the floor of the longhouse—DC 15 
Wisdom (Perception) to spot. The other two trollkin are 
becoming suspicious at the way Cleft Ear keeps glancing 
nervously at it. If the fight goes against them, all three 
trollkin will flee to the caverns, but Cleft Ear will attempt 
to recover the bar on the way out.

--- PAGE 44 ---
42
HILLSIDE CAVERN
The small cave system in the hillside is really a winding 
tunnel that loops back under itself, widening in portions 
along its length and at its terminus. The tunnel is 
roughly 10 feet wide with the ceiling 10 feet overhead. 
The ceiling rises in the wider portions to a height of 15 
feet. Just inside the entrance, the passageway forks with 
the right hand passage leading down some rough-hewn 
stone steps to Area 8 while the left hand passage travels 
forward, descending more steps and broadening to form 
Area 7 until passing under itself to reach Area 8 and 
Area 9. Torches have been set in the walls of each cavern, 
affording decent illumination and casting the tunnels 
between them in dim light.
A well-trodden path through the woods leads to a cavern 
entrance set into the side of the hill. How far it goes into 
the ground, you can’t tell, but it is obvious from the 
footprints that trollkin have come and gone this way quite 
often and quite recently.
Two trollkin bandits are stationed here, guarding 
the entrance to the cave. They stand one to either 
side of the entranceway, just inside and lurking in the 
shadows—DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) to notice them. 
If a commotion has broken out in the compound, they 
will take the Ready action, prepared to strike any non-
trollkin entering. They have been tasked to remain here 
and won’t leave this station. However, if they can tell 
that the fight has gone against the Mossbacks and they 
haven’t been reinforced by any trollkin fleeing from 
the longhouses, they might try to bargain for their safe 
passage with the treasure in Area 9, in which case they 
will try to trick the PCs into taking the stairs down where 
the captured owlbear awaits in Area 8. 
AREA 7
Two trollkin are here, protecting a group of five trollkin 
children who range in age from toddler to young teen. 
Also present is the albino worg pup stolen from the White 
Worg Reavers. The children are playing with the puppy 
when the PCs arrive. The trollkin adults offer only a 
token resistance before begging the PCs not to harm their 
children. However, if she learns about the children, Revna 
Ravenstone will want to slay them all to prevent the start 
of a blood feud. If the PCs intend to prevent the children’s 
deaths, it will require some very persuasive argument to 
sway Revna’s mind, possibly even invoking wergild of the 
trollkin before she will agree to let them go (see Midgard 
Worldbook for more information on wergild).
AREA 8
In one of their forays into the forests, the Mossback 
Raiders managed to capture an owlbear. They’ve chained 
the creature at the foot of the steps leading into this 
cavern. The chain allows the owlbear to reach and attack 
anyone coming down the steps. However, its range of 
movement doesn’t extend to the tunnel leading from 
Area 7 or into Area 9. The Mossbacks know this and 
always enter and exit by taking the longer route. They’ve 
also been taunting and starving the unfortunate owlbear, 
hoping to make it particularly vicious. The owlbear is 
smart enough to know who its persecutors are however, 
so if freed and within sight of a trollkin, things might not 
go as the Mossbacks expect. 
AREA 9  
The leader of this branch of the Mossback Raiders 
is a trollkin raider named Swift Death. She is here, 
studying the far wall of the cavern in a futile attempt 
to understand the magic that opens the shadow road 
entrance. She hopes to be able to utilize the shadow road 
to extend her territory and further her ambition to raid 
across the Northlands. She keeps a not-fully-tamed giant 
boar named Snot Snout as a pet and who follows her 
heels like a dog but isn’t above taking the occasional bite 
out of other Mossbacks. She wears a magical necklace 
known as the baleful eye of Chernobog (see Appendix). 
When accosted, Swift Death will first use the baleful 
eye on any dwarves in the party before attacking along 
with her giant boar. The boar doesn’t respond to her 
commands, but Snot Snout is a savage creature that 
doesn’t require provocation to attack intruders. Rather, 
it is preventing the boar from attacking that might prove 
difficult.
Shadow Road Entrance. Bragi Skallagrimsson is 
correct that there is indeed a shadow road entrance here. 
In a natural alcove in the far wall of the cavern, there is 
a symbol carved into the stone that resembles a winged 
wolf. On the floor in front of this carving is a perfectly 
symmetrical depression. If not less than 50 gp worth 
of gold is melted down and poured molten into the 
depression, the far wall of the cavern will dematerialize 
for 1 minute before returning to solid stone (3d10 
force damage to creatures standing in the space of the 
cavern wall when it rematerializes). Anyone passing 
through the wall at this time enters a tributary of Shield 
Maiden’s Fancy that swiftly ascends a mountain pass. 
What’s more, entering Shield Maiden’s Fancy from this 
passage, and only this passage, allows travelers to spot an 
otherwise hidden mithral bridge that reveals itself after a 
day’s travel and links this shadow road with the Raven’s 
Road. The bridge was built by the elves long ago and has 
been forgotten in all but the bard’s song.

--- PAGE 45 ---
43
Treasure. A locked chest in the corner, requiring a 
DC 14 Dexterity check to open, contains the results 
of the trollkin’s raiding. They have amassed 50 gp, 
1,100 sp, 1,800 cp, eight gems worth 50 gp each, a 
spell scroll of acid splash, a potion of climbing, and 
three potions of healing.
Concluding the Adventure 
Once the trollkin have been killed, 
captured, or run off, the PCs will have 
earned an ally in the White Worg 
Reavers and have the beginnings of a 
reputation in Wolfheim. Meanwhile, 
Revna Ravenstone will be in a good 
mood, feeling that honor has been 
satisfied. She’ll be especially amenable 
should she learn of the baleful eye of 
Chernobog’s powers as it absolves 
her guilt at what she thought was 
weakness of heart in her reavers. 
Regardless, Revna will gladly 
agree to the loan of two 
longships to vom Meer, tasking 
several reaver dwarves to 
accompany the ships on their 
return with the Wellenreiter. 
She may, at the GM’s discretion, 
lay claim to some of the treasure 
stored in the cave if it was found 
since some of it was taken in 
the raid upon the White Worg 
compound. Or she may feel that 
the PCs have earned it for their 
aid. Revna will also lay claim 
to the trollkin compound 
as it will make a new base 
of operations for the White 
Worg Reavers, though she 
would gladly share it with her 
new honorary members if 
they wish to claim it as well. 
Further Adventures 
If the PCs wish to continue following the threads of 
this story, they can seek to track down more Mossback 
Raiders. The trail might lead them to the village of 
Nargenstal, the setting of the adventure The Raven’s Call 
and another encounter with the trollkin. Alternatively, 
vom Meer may wish to enlist their aid in another quest. 
He may send them to Skogarholm in the Wolfmark 
to negotiate safe passage for his ships, or perhaps he 
has trade interests in Björnrike or seeks to bolster his 
reputation by finding a lost dwarven relic rumored 
to be in an abandoned hold deep inside Huldramose. 
Finally, should they survive, either Bragi or Golden 
Throat or both may enlist the PCs to escort them safely 
to Skaldholm.

--- PAGE 46 ---
44
AGAINST THE DUST GOBLIN ORACLE
This adventure takes place in an unspecified location in 
the Western Wastes (and is presumed to begin in a region 
bordering the wastes, whether that be the Magocracy of 
Allain, the Grand Duchy of Dornig, or other) but can 
easily be adapted to any isolated and desolate region.
Adventure Background
The Bloody Tunnelers were one of the many tribes of 
dust goblins that wander the wastes, digging into ruins to 
salvage the treasures of the lost magocracies. They were a 
small and poor tribe, often losing out on scavenge to the 
other, stronger tribes, especially the Dust Diggers with 
whom they had a running rivalry. When Braagezz began 
to unite the goblin tribes, the chieftain of the Bloody 
Tunnelers refused. He distrusted the half-mechanical 
dust goblin. Unwilling to submit to the rule of Braagezz, 
they broke off, braving the wastes on their own, to avoid 
conflict with the Dust Diggers and others that were now 
united under the Beloved Leader. Life was rough and 
took its toll on the tribe. Many, including their chieftain, 
succumbed to the myriad dangers of the wastes, and the 
Bloody Tunnelers’ numbers dwindled. They faced the 
threat of total destruction.
Recently, while scavenging a buried tower, one of 
the Bloody Tunnelers, a young goblin named Durgleel, 
uncovered a vril artifact of unknown origin and purpose.
While fiddling with the relic, she managed to activate it. 
The artifact fused to her skull, and she has since been 
having what she claims are prophetic visions, brought 
on by terrible seizures. Many of these immediately came 
true, and by capitalizing on them, the tribe prospered. 
Soon Durgleel was leader of the Bloody Tunnelers, their 
all-seeing oracle and guide. 
One day, after a powerful vision that left her twitching 
and rolling in the dirt for several minutes, a staggering 
and drooling Durgleel the All-Seer pronounced that the 
Wasted West would see a Mad Spring soon. This random 
phenomenon happens when magical storms rage across 
the wastes, producing all sorts of strange, wild plant life 
to burst from the dust, briefly turning the wasteland into 
a bountiful and verdant—if still dangerous—paradise. 
Durgleel proclaimed she would lead the tribe to a place of 
prosperity where they could live for years without toil or 
warfare. However, they must prepare. 
One thing Durgleel was adamant about was obtaining 
a large supply of containers, mainly for water. Though 
puzzled, given the lack of potable water in the wastes, the 
tribe was spurred on by her visions of a coming deluge, so 
they began raiding across the borders into the Magocracy 
of Allain, north of Bourgund, giving rise to a puzzling 
number of thefts of barrels, crockery, and other such 
vessels while forgoing other, more valuable goods. Still, 
the rampant thefts have the locals clamoring for aid.
Adventure Hooks
The following scenarios can be used to entice the PCs into 
pursuing this adventure:
•	 The Inn’s Run Dry! Eager for a hot meal and a cool 
tankard of ale at the end of a long journey, the PCs 
arrive to find that the inn has little to serve them aside 
from food. The innkeeper informs them that, just 
before dawn, a band of goblins attacked and swept 
through the stores, hauling out all the barrels of ale and 
wine to be had. Rather than steal the alcohol, they tore 
open the lids and dumped the contents out in the yard! 
Then they loaded the empty barrels into the wagon they 
brought with them, along with all her cooking pots, 
crockery, and bowls. She will pay the PCs to track down 
the goblins and return her goods as it could be a week 
or more before she can have new items brought in by a 
traveling merchant.
•	 Not a Pot to Cook In. The PCs pass through one of 
Dornig’s border villages and are alerted to the villagers’ 
problems through conversation or a posted notice in 
the village square. Dust goblins from across the border 
crept into town under cover of darkness. The goblins 
pillaged what they could carry, making off with a 
couple of the village’s carts and an odd assortment of 
goods—rain barrels, cooking pots, animal troughs, and 
similar items—and what few were made of precious 
metals seemed to be taken incidentally.
•	 Double, Double, Toil and Trouble!  The PCs stumble 
into the lair of a coven of hags. While this would 
normally be terrible trouble, the hags are in turmoil 
and in need of aid. Their cauldron, which they use to 
perform various rituals and concoct magical brews, 
has been stolen. They forgo any violent action toward 
For 4th-Level Characters

--- PAGE 47 ---
45
these new intruders, offering safe passage and a boon 
if the PCs will track down the thieves and return their 
cauldron. An abundance of goblin tracks identifies 
the culprits and points out the path they took with the 
stolen cauldron.
•	 The Wayward Peddler. As the PCs travel a lonely 
road along the border, they see a man in the distance, 
trudging alone in their direction. When the man 
notices them, he picks up his pace, jogging toward 
them and waving his arms to get their attention. As he 
gets closer, they notice his clothes are dirty and torn in 
places, and he has a bloodied bandage around his head. 
He explains that he is a peddler, making a living selling 
miscellaneous goods to border towns and remote 
farmsteads. While heading for the next town, he was 
attacked by a band of dust goblins. They forced him 
from his wagon and drove off with it, heading toward 
the badlands to the east. They seemed strangely excited 
by the newly crafted but empty barrels he was carrying, 
paying little attention to anything else.
Whatever hook brings the PCs into the adventure, they 
will first have to track the dust goblins back to their lair. 
Luckily, the goblins are making no efforts to hide their 
tracks, and the carts and/or wagons they use to carry 
their ill-gotten gains are heavily laden: DC 10 Wisdom 
(Survival) check to pick up and follow the trail, leading 
the PCs steadily south and west to the outskirts of the 
western end of the Goblin Wastes. Here the trail becomes 
even easier to follow as the dust and cracked earth 
crumbles beneath the passage of the wagon (DC 5). 
The adventure assumes the dust goblins have enough 
of a lead to reach their lair without the PCs overtaking 
them. However, if the PCs have magical means at their 
disposal to move more swiftly or simply decide to push 
hard during mounted travel to overtake the goblins, 
you can have the PCs catch the raiding party they are 
tracking. There are a total of 16 dust goblins (see Tome of 
Beasts) in the group, pulling a wagon (or a pair of carts, 
depending on the hook used to start the adventure) piled 
with barrels and other assorted containers. If they are 
unable to outrun the PCs, the goblins stop and fight. If 
half or more of the goblins fall in combat, the rest will 
flee, taking whatever containers they can carry with them.
RANDOM ENCOUNTERS
You can have the PCs reach the lair of the dust goblins 
without incident. If you want to add some extra difficulty 
to their journey or buy time for the goblins to reach 
home ahead of their pursuers, roll on the following table 
for an encounter.
d6
Encounter
1
1d2 ankhegs
2
1d4 death dogs
3
4d4 dust goblins*
4
1d2 ettercaps
5
1 lamia
6
1 dorreq*
* see Tome of Beasts
Lair of the Bloody Tunnelers 
The trail leads the heroes to a ruin, little more than a 
tumble of wind-worn stones and rocky foundations 
where the now-empty wagons and/or carts are deposited 
along with a few others that the goblins have acquired on 
previous raids. 
The goblins’ trail is hard to miss, requiring only a DC 
5 Wisdom (Perception or Survival) check to notice. The 
trail leads to an area sheltered by the still-standing corner 
of an ancient building. A stone plug blocks a hole in one 
of the crumbling foundations. This is the entrance to the 
Bloody Tunnelers’ home.
When the PCs first arrive at the site, a pack of four 
death dogs is nearby, attracted by the smells of barrels 
emptied of food and drink that were brought back. They 
will attack the PCs and flee if they are all dropped below 
half their hit points or if two of them are killed.
Once the fortress of an ancient sorcerer, all that 
remains of the place now are the subterranean caves 
and rooms beneath where the buildings once stood. A 
bronze pull ring allows the plug to be removed, requiring 
a successful DC 10 Strength (Athletics) check to do so. 
Opened, it reveals a steep staircase, descending into the 
earth, the ancient stone steps worn slightly concave in 
the middle from the passage of countless feet.
Should the PCs retreat from the lair after their initial 
foray, the goblins’ numbers will be replenished by other 
members of the tribe, returning from raids or salvage 
missions. After at least 8 hours, enough goblins return 
to replace half of any losses suffered at the hands of the 
adventurers. The goblins will double the number of 
guards in Area 8 and add a force of six dust goblins to

--- PAGE 48 ---
46
stand watch in Area 3 (assuming enough goblins remain 
to do so) to help protect against any further attacks.
AREA 1: ENTRANCE
At the bottom of the staircase is a stone door. The door is 
intricately carved with strange symbols and glyphs. At the 
door’s center is a carving of a three-eyed falcon, its wings 
outstretched and talons extended as if diving upon its prey.
Magical Lock. The door is under the effects of an 
arcane lock, though with a slight alteration to the spell. 
The sorcerer that built this place is long dead and 
forgotten, but he had a sense of humor. The symbol on 
the door is that of his bitter rival. To suppress the spell, 
one must poke the falcon in the eyes with three fingers. 
A successful DC 13 Intelligence (Investigation) 
check notes that the eyes of the falcon are grubby as if 
repeatedly touched by dirty hands. A knock spell or other 
means to bypass an arcane lock will also work. The door 
(AC 17; hp 24) can be forced open with a DC 25 Strength 
(Athletics) check.
If the door is battered down and the process takes 
more than 3 rounds, there is a 50% chance that a pair of 
dust goblins comes to investigate from either Area 3 or 
Area 8.
AREA 2: PORTCULLIS
The passage here is blocked by several iron bars that rise 
out of the floor. A lever juts from the wall just in front of 
the bars.
Trap. If the lever is pulled, the portcullis will lower into 
the floor. However, this sets the bars to spring back out of 
the floor with great force. 
If a creature attempts to move past the bars after they 
have been lowered, the lever suddenly snaps back to the 
upright position as the bars spring from the floor, back 
into their original position, dealing 11 (2d10) points of 
bludgeoning damage to the creature and knocking them 
back 5 feet.

--- PAGE 49 ---
47
 A successful DC 13 Dexterity saving throw allows the 
creature to jump back before the bars hit, avoiding the 
damage. If the roll for the save is 5 or more higher than 
the DC, the creature can choose to lunge forward, getting 
to the other side before the bars come up.
Prevention. A DC 13 Intelligence (Investigation) or 
Wisdom (Perception) check made by the person who 
pulls the lever notes that it does not sound or feel as if 
the lever has locked down properly. It’s also suspicious 
to have the trigger for a defense on the outside where 
potential enemies can use it. 
A successful DC 13 Dexterity (thieves’ tools) check can 
be made to jam the lever, preventing it from releasing 
and raising the bars again.
AREA 3: MUSHROOM FARM
This room is filled with a pungent, earthy odor and an 
underlying scent of rot. Large, rectangular basins of stone 
against the east wall sprout a riot of mushrooms. Some 
scattered gardening implements and a pile of compost sit 
between the basins.
This room is used by the goblins to grow mushrooms 
to supplement their food supply. The mushrooms are fed 
on whatever waste the goblins produce and any inedible 
organic materials fished out of the stream in Area 5 and 
Area 6.
Creatures. Eight dust goblins occupy the room, 
tending the crop. They will fight until half their number 
have fallen before fleeing to Area 4.
Treasure. Between them, the goblins have a total of 64 
sp and 96 cp. Each dust goblin also wears an amulet tied 
to its wrist: a scrap of blue-green metal held in a bracelet 
woven from dried grasses. Wearing this amulet prevents 
a creature from triggering the trap in Area 11. If any 
dust goblins are kept alive by the PCs and specifically 
questioned about the amulets, they will lie, saying that 
they wear them to identify themselves as members of the 
Bloody Tunnelers Tribe.
AREA 4: SORTING ROOM
This long hall is filled with piles of apparent junk. Two 
doors are set in the eastern wall. Stairs down exit the hall 
at the southern end, flanked by two bronze statues of 
robed, hooded figures carrying staves.
This room serves as storage for goods and materials 
gathered from their scavenging expeditions and those 
fished from the stream in Area 6. The goblins then sift 
through the piles, sorting treasure and items useful to the 
tribe from things that can be salvaged for scrap or worth 
enough to be traded for food and other goods. Organic 
materials that serve no useful purpose become part of the 
mulch for the mushroom farm in Area 3. The rest, true 
refuse, is simply taken to Area 5 and dumped back into 
the stream to be carried away.
Creatures. There are 12 dust goblins working here, 
sifting and sorting various piles of salvage.
Treasure. The goblins have a total of 3 gp, 70 sp, and 
102 cp on their persons. They also wear the same blue-
green metal amulets as the goblins in Area 3. If the PCs 
take 10 minutes to search through the various piles of 
miscellanea in the room, they find the following: five iron 
ingots worth 1 sp each (1 lb. each), a 5-square-yard sheet 
of dirty canvas, a wooden scroll case, a mess kit, two 
tinderboxes, four candles, a vial of antitoxin, and a lyre 
(needs new strings).
The northernmost door on the east wall opens into a 
small room where the most valuable items are kept until 
they are taken to Durgleel to be deposited with the rest of 
the treasure in Area 13. It currently contains a lapis lazuli 
bowl worth 30 gp piled with small discs, rods, and coiled 
bits of wire made of orichalcum, worth a total of 45 gp.
If the dust goblin raiding party the PCs were tracking 
made it back, then this room also contains all the barrels 
and other containers they stole along with many others 
that were taken in prior raids.
Trap. If a creature walks between the two statues 
at the far end of the room, an arc of electricity jumps 
between the tips of the staves the statues hold. Any 
creature in the path of the arc takes 11 (2d10) lightning 
damage and is stunned for 1 round. A successful DC 14 
Dexterity saving throw halves the damage and negates 
the stunned condition.
Prevention. A successful DC 14 Intelligence 
(Investigation) check finds a hidden switch in the folds 
of the robe on the statue to the southwest. Flipping this 
switch will deactivate the trap for 1 minute. A successful 
dispel magic can also deactivate the trap.
AREA 5: ANCIENT DOCK
A damp, bitter smell grows stronger on the steps entering 
this area. Barrels are on the stone floor. An underground 
stream flows past, the stone floor at the far edge of the 
room forming its northern bank.
The water of the stream has a high mineral content but 
is still potable. This dock once served to bring supplies 
into the fortress that once stood above, secretly and 
without fear of blockade by besieging forces. The goblins 
have a net strung across the water here, meant to catch 
any materials flowing downstream that aren’t caught by 
the gate in Area 6. This material is then brought to Area 
4 to be sorted. The barrels are full of stale water and 
rotted through. They will fall apart if anyone attempts to 
move them.

--- PAGE 50 ---
48
Treasure. At the bottom of one of the smaller barrels, 
hidden by the murky water inside, is a pile of coins, a total 
of 11 gp, 36 sp, and 44 cp. A successful DC 13 Intelligence 
(Investigation) check will spot the secret stash.
AREA 6: THE GRATE
An underground stream flows through, dividing the 
cavern in two. The water looks clear but carries a 
distinct, bitter smell. A corroded metal grate, thick 
with mineral build-up, stands at the point where the 
water flows out of the cave, blocking any access. A stone 
capstan stands off to one side, near the western wall.
The grate was once a security measure for the sorcerer 
who lived here, ensuring enemies could not sneak in 
from downstream. Now it serves the goblins, collecting 
any scraps that might flow in with the water that are too 
large to fit through the holes in the grating. 
The capstan, if turned, will raise and lower the grate. 
The stream is about 3 feet deep at its shallowest. While 
the water has a high mineral content, it is potable, 
though unpleasant to drink. The grating (AC 18; hp 
18) can be bent significantly with a successful DC 20 
Strength (Athletics) check, partially removing it from its 
frame and allowing passage.
AREA 7: DRAGON’S CAVE
A long cavern stretches away into darkness. Natural ledges 
along the walls appear to lead to other areas. The floor is 
littered with bones—some whole, others split, and some 
simply fragments.
Creature. This cave is the lair of a wasteland dragon 
wyrmling (see Creature Codex) befriended by Durgleel. 
Recently forced from its mother’s lair, the wyrmling 
was discovered by the dust goblins during a scavenging 
5N
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14

--- PAGE 51 ---
49
mission in a nearby ruin. Desperate and hungry, the 
wyrmling killed one of the dust goblins. Durgleel 
managed to forestall any further violence between her 
people and the dragon, taking the risk of attempting to 
speak with it. 
She managed to convince the dragon to come with 
them and take the cave as its lair. The dust goblins 
provide it with treasure, taken from their scavenging, 
as well as the occasional meal when they raid into the 
settled lands outside the wastes. Durgleel hopes over time 
the dragon will decide to stay permanently as an ally and 
guardian of the tribe. For now, the wyrmling is content 
to accept tribute from the goblins and has no plans to eat 
any others, as the first one tasted terrible. 
However, the wyrmling is eager to feast on any 
intruding PCs, realizing they come from outside the 
wastes and are much better game than what can be 
found in these tainted lands. If the wyrmling is aware of 
intruders, it hides on the ledge with its hoard, attempting 
to catch as many of them as possible with its breath 
weapon before moving to attack. 
The dragon will fight until it has lost three-quarters 
or more of its hit points and then flees through Area 6 
and up stream to Area 12 where it warns Durgleel of 
intruders and seeks aid with its injuries.
Treasure. The wyrmling’s hoard sits on the larger of 
the two ledges, about 8 feet above the cavern floor. The 
hoard consists of 20 gp, 300 sp, 600 cp, and seven zircon 
gems worth 50 gp each.
AREA 8: GUARD POST
This chamber is empty save for a single stone table in the 
corner. Stone doors mark two other exits from the room.
This room serves as a guard post for the goblin tribe. 
The true lever to raise and lower the portcullis in Area 2 
is on the wall under the table. 
Creatures. Currently four dust goblins stand guard 
here. If the trap in Area 2 goes off, the sound of it will 
alert them to intruders. They will fire their crossbows 
through the bars at those on the other side, until 
opponents manage to get past the portcullis, and then 
engage in melee. If the battle seems hopeless, they will 
retreat to Area 9 for reinforcements.
AREA 9: MAP ROOM
This chamber holds a simple desk and chair carved of 
stone as well as a stone table holding an assortment of 
pots, bowls, sticks, and crude brushes. A small barrel sits 
in one corner. Much of the eastern wall of the room has 
been painted with a crude map.
The containers on the table hold various powders used 
to create the pigments that are used by Durgleel on the 
map on the wall, as well as oil to mix them into paint. 
The barrel holds water from the underground stream. 
The map represents an area of the Western Wastes that 
includes this location and the “paradise” she has foreseen, 
being created with the coming of the Mad Spring. The 
map also has a tentative route drawn out on it. 
If you wish to run the later Raid on the Savage Oasis 
chapter for your players, you can use the contents of 
this room as a hook. The oasis is the paradise Durgleel 
has foreseen, the place to which her tribe shall make its 
exodus. Scraps of hide and paper on the desk, scrawled 
with notes in Goblin, detail Durgleel’s plan and that the 
oasis will be a source of plentiful food and water during 
the time of the Mad Spring.
Items. There are enough pigments, brushes, and other 
tools here to assemble three sets of artisan’s tools for 
painters.
AREA 10: MEDITATION CHAMBER
This small, cramped room smells of smoke and burnt 
herbs. A small stool sits against the wall. Two metal boxes 
stand in the room. One holds fresh charcoal. The other 
holds old, gray coals and ash.
Durgleel comes here to meditate and to try to induce 
visions from her vril artifact. Through isolation and the 
burning of herbs, she attempts to induce a mental state 
that activates the artifact, hoping to make it function 
when she chooses rather than erratically at random 
moments as it usually does.
Incense. Under the stool is a sack containing 
Durgleel’s meditation incense. Mixed among some 
mostly innocuous herbs and weeds is a minute amount 
of spores from Roggsothof the Fungal Horror, one of 
the Dread Walkers of the wastes. If the PCs burn any 
of this incense, it releases a cloud of toxic smoke. All 
creatures in the area of this smoke must make a DC 13 
Constitution saving throw. 
On a failed save, creatures take 9 (2d8) poison damage 
and are poisoned for 1 minute. While poisoned from the 
incense, a creature is plagued with “visions,” vivid flashes 
of other places and events, which cause the creature to 
have disadvantage on attacks and on any Intelligence-, 
Wisdom-, and Charisma-based saving throws and skill 
checks for as long as they are poisoned. 
On a successful save, a creature takes half damage 
and is not poisoned. Should any creature directly inhale 
the incense for whatever reason, they inhale some of 
the deadly spores. The DC of the saving throw is then 
increased to 16, the poison damage increases to 18 (4d8), 
and the poisoned duration increases to 10 minutes.

--- PAGE 52 ---
50
AREA 11: HALL OF FORCE
The walls and floor of this room are smooth, worked stone. 
A stone bridge arches over the stream that cuts through 
the middle of the area. To the north, three large plates of a 
strange, blue-green metal are mounted to the wall.
Trap. Each plate projects a powerful wave of energy 
any time a creature passes in front of it within 15 feet. 
This wave is preceded by a faint smell of ozone in the air, 
and any hair a creature has on its body begins to prickle 
and stand on end. A creature caught in a wave must 
make a DC 15 Strength saving throw. On a failed save, 
the creature takes 11 (2d10) force damage and is pushed 
15 feet and knocked prone. 
On a successful saving throw, the creature takes half 
damage, remains unmoved, and is not knocked prone. 
The first plate is only 10 feet from the opposite wall 
however, so a creature that fails its saving throw also 
takes 7 (2d6) bludgeoning damage from its impact with 
the opposite wall before falling prone. A creature that 
fails its saving throw against the third plate must also 
succeed at a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw or be 
knocked over the side of the bridge into the stream 
below. The water of the stream is about 3 feet 
deep at this point and counts as difficult terrain if 
waded through.
Prevention. A detect magic spell will show an 
aura of evocation magic around each plate. 
A successful DC 15 Intelligence (Arcana) check 
will provide a way to neutralize the magic of the 
plates for 1 minute, allowing passage without setting 
them off.
The goblins all wear wrist bands with a piece of 
metal of the same type as the plates woven into them. 
This somehow negates the effects of the plates. 
The dust goblins don’t know why they work, just that 
Durgleel discovered it and that it is an effective way to 
bypass them while keeping them active as a defensive 
mechanism against intruders.
AREA 12: DEMONIC THRONE
A large, metallic throne sits between three demonic-
looking statues, the largest of which looms behind the 
throne with bat-like wings partially spread. Tapestries 
of metallic cloth hang from the walls, each displaying a 
large, intricate glyph.
Creatures. The former throne of the 
sorcerer-king is now where Durgleel 
(see Appendix) holds court and 
issues her prophecies to the tribe. 
She can be found here advising a 
group of goblins on how to best oversee the preparations 
for their departure and exodus. Currently there are eight 
dust goblins conferring with her here. 
The dust goblins fight to the death to defend their 
leader. Enemies sighted in Area 11 will be targeted with 
ranged weapon attacks by six of the dust goblins while 
two will move to the bridge with melee weapons, ready 
to fend off attackers that attempt to cross. These goblins 
also carry the amulets that protect them from the force 
trap in Area 11, so they can carry the fight into that area 
if necessary. Their chieftain’s force gauntlet is made of 
the same metal, so it also acts as protection from the trap. 
Durgleel likewise fights fanatically to defend her tribe. 
Durgleel carries a bone whistle, and if she blows it, the 
sound will summon the wasteland dragon wyrmling 
from Area 7 to come to her aid. While the dragon has 
formed a relationship of mutual trust with Durgleel, it has 
no stake in the tribe as a whole. If Durgleel is killed, the 
wyrmling leaves any remaining dust goblins to their fates, 
flying back along the stream to Area 7 to guard its hoard. 
(The wyrmling has no amulet and so avoids Area 11 if

--- PAGE 53 ---
51
possible.) If Durgleel is killed, the vril artifact attached 
to her “dies” as well. It powers itself with her psyche, 
and when she is killed, it burns out, and the stone casing 
cracks, releasing a thick acrid goo and giving off a smell 
like ozone.
Treasure. A successful DC 13 Intelligence 
(Investigation) or Wisdom (Perception) check discovers a 
hidden compartment in the left arm of the throne. Inside 
are three potions of healing. The wall tapestries are worth 
25 gp each.
Discovery. A secret door in the wall behind the largest 
demon statue can be found and opened with a successful 
DC 14 Intelligence (Investigation) check.
AREA 13: TREASURE CAVE
A pile of loose coinage and various odds and ends sits in 
the middle of the floor of this otherwise drab cave.
The secret door connecting this room with Area 12, as 
well as the mechanism for opening it, are easily seen on 
this side of the door.
Treasure. The cave holds the accumulated wealth of 
the Bloody Tunnelers Tribe. Piled here among scrap 
metal, trinkets, mundane tools, and other objects are 30 
gp, 800 sp, and 1,300 cp. The following art items, each 
worth 25 gp, can also be scrounged out of the pile: a small 
jade statuette of a treant, a silver mask, a dagger with 
decorative copper wire hammered into the blade and a 
blue-quartz pommel, a hammered copper bowl with a 
mother-of-pearl rim, and a solid-gold bishop chess piece.
Deadfall Trap. A tripwire is stretched across the 
passage leading up from the bottom of the sinkhole in 
Area 14, right at the top of the first incline before the 
passage widens. If triggered, a deadfall—a large log with 
sharpened spikes along the side facing the tripwire—
drops from behind a dip in the ceiling, swinging from 
ropes attached to each end, to arc down into any creatures 
in the widest area of the passage to the top of the first 
incline where the tripwire is located. The deadfall deals 
22 (4d10) piercing damage to all creatures in its path and 
impales them on the spikes, where they are restrained. 
A successful DC 15 Dexterity saving throw halves the 
damage and the creature is not restrained. If a creature 
beats the DC by 5 or more, it takes no damage at all and 
completely avoids the deadfall.
Prevention. A successful DC 14 Intelligence 
(Investigation) or Wisdom (Perception) check will spot 
the camouflaged tripwire. The easiest method is to simply 
avoid the trap, stepping over the tripwire and moving 
on. Alternatively, the tripwire can be triggered from a 
safe distance. Once the trap is triggered, it will not go off 
again until reset, and the deadfall can either be cut down 
or bypassed. 
AREA 14: DUST GOBLIN LAIR
This cave holds numerous piles of bedding, makeshift 
tables of flat rocks balanced on other stones, and small 
cookfires whose smoke trails up into cracks in the ceiling. 
At the far end, a large sinkhole has opened in the floor.
Creatures. The dust goblins prepare their food, eat 
their meals, and sleep here when not out scavenging or 
performing other tasks on behalf of the tribe. At any 
given time, 12 dust goblins can be found in this chamber 
eating, sleeping, or simply relaxing after their labors.
Items. Like the other goblins of the tribe, each wears 
a woven amulet containing a shard of blue-green metal. 
A rope ladder is anchored to the edge of the sinkhole, 
descending 20 feet to its bottom, allowing access to a 
rising passage that leads to Area 13.
Concluding the Adventure
Depending on the hook used, the PCs will be returning 
certain vessels to their rightful owners and will have a 
convenient means of carrying them awaiting them back on 
the surface. When they return the items, they can receive 
whatever reward you decide, though given the minor 
nature of the goods, it’s not likely to be nearly as much as 
the accumulated treasure from the dust goblins’ lair.
If you are running the later Raid on the Savage Oasis 
chapter, the adventurers now have a clear map to a locale 
the dust goblins were very determined to find and claim 
for their own (though they’ll have to make themselves a 
copy since it’s painted on the wall of the place). 
However, adventurers setting out to find the locale 
may well find themselves caught in the storms that 
herald the Mad Spring as well as dealing with a whole 
new set of dangers when the wastes undergo their radical 
transformation as a result. See Warlock 24: Weird Fantasy 
for more information on this phenomenon and the 
changes it causes in the area. This material provides for 
a wild journey and the potential for numerous exciting 
encounters before even arriving at the Savage Oasis and 
dealing with the encounters there.
STATUS IN MIDGARD
If you are using Status (see Midgard Worldbook) and 
the PCs dispatch the Bloody Tunnelers Tribe and 
return the stolen containers, assuming they were 
looking for the missing containers, the PCs gain +1 to 
their Status with inns, shops, and taverns in whatever 
region they were set on this quest in, whether that be 
the Magocracy of Allain, the Grand Duchy of Dornig, 
or other. These modifiers stack with similar Status 
modifiers the PCs may possess.

--- PAGE 54 ---
52
A LIFE IN THE FAMILY
The adventure takes place at an abandoned estate in the 
White Forest (in the Magdar Kingdom) but can easily be 
adapted to any forested region.
Adventure Background
Centuries ago, a benign necromantic cult of Mnemosyne 
fled elven persecution in Kammae and came ashore in 
the as-yet-untamed Magdar Kingdoms. They founded 
a settlement, Memoria, in the western White Forest, 
and enacted a ritual intended to bridge Midgard with 
the afterlife to enable harmonious co-existence with 
their ancestral spirits. Catastrophe struck, and the ritual 
went wrong. Instead of bringing forth peaceful spirits, 
the ritual unleashed a host of malevolent incorporeal 
undead. Memoria fell within a night and sank into the 
margins of history (explored more thoroughly in the 
previous The Light of Memoria chapter). 
However, not all the cultists lived in Memoria. Some, 
like Kaiti and Theodoro Vadeki, had small ambitions 
and struck out on their own when rumors of the 
impending ritual started. It sounded too risky. 
So instead, they went deeper into the White Forest 
and built their estate there. They intended to raise a 
family and live their lives in peaceful study and magical 
practice with the aid of their personal ancestors, using 
the magics they gained from the cult: summon ancestor 
(see Appendix) allowed them to converse with direct 
ancestors, which the Memorians attempted on a much 
grander scale. The Vadekis used this ritual to summon 
and bind three of their ancestors: Kaiti’s grandmother, 
Areti; her great-grandfather, Vaso; and Theodoro’s 
younger sister, Tasia (see The Vadeki Ghosts 
sidebar for more information). Bound safely inside 
an underground cellar built for them and anchored 
by memory stones and menhirs shaped by an earth 
elemental, the couple and ghosts lived side by side in a 
peaceful if unorthodox harmony.
After Memoria fell, the remaining Memorians 
contained most of the undead host in a great sacrifice at 
a shadow gate. This eliminated the greatest threat, but 
some undead remained outside and sought different 
quarry, scattering into the forest. The Vadeki Estate 
came under attack by several waves of small groups 
of undead, attracted by the necrotic energy of the 
menhirs and the bound ghosts. 
The Vadekis put up a ward around the cellar to 
protect it from intrusion and then fled. They always 
intended to return, but then Kaiti had their first child 
in Cronepisht, and not long after, Theodoro’s health 
began to wane. They never made it back. Their notes 
and journals became old curiosities of family history, 
forgotten and passed down generation to generation.
Recent Events
Recently, their youngest descendent, Chrysanthi 
Vadeki, attempted to open her own alchemical shop 
in Cronepisht to disastrous results: she burned it 
down while experimenting with a new alchemist’s fire 
formula. Newly destitute, Chrysanthi desperately pored 
over her family’s old letters and journals looking for 
some forgotten debt owed or an unknown inheritance. 
In the search, she found references to the old estate, 
long lost in the White Forest. Seeing the opportunity for 
a fresh start, Chrysanthi set out to find it.
Using clues from her ancestors’ journals, she 
found the place, though half-reclaimed by the forest 
already. The walls still looked intact, potentially with 
magic reinforcement, and Chrysanthi found that 
promising enough to investigate. Once she entered, 
the ghosts of her bound ancestors came out of their 
ethereal semi‑hibernation and strained the wards in 
a rush to greet her—and warn her about the undead. 
Chrysanthi panicked in the chaos and fled, stirring up 
the undead and rousing the shambling mound in the 
shattered atrium.  
When Chrysanthi made it out of the house, she 
ran into a group of goblins (scouts for Gellert the 
Gruesome) who’d been slowly looting the estate and 
feeding the shambling mound to keep it dormant. The 
goblins chased her off until she saw them intercepted by 
skeletons and shadows. After that, she just kept running.
For 5th-Level Characters

--- PAGE 55 ---
53
Adventure Hooks
Here are some ways the PCs might hear of Chrysanthi’s 
plight and decide to aid her:
•	 They may find Chrysanthi still in the White Forest, on 
her way back to Cronepisht after her disastrous visit.
•	 They may also find her in Cronepisht, after she’s 
already returned, and hear about her asking for ghost 
hunters and putting up notices at taverns.
•	 The PCs may also come across the Vadeki Estate on 
their own and explore it, though the ancestral ghosts 
there will implore them to find Chrysanthi and bring 
her back. (If this is the case, consider including a 
journal Chrysanthi dropped in her escape, relating 
some of the background to this place and pointing the 
PCs to Cronepisht to find her.)
Chrysanthi
Chrysanthi is a chaotic good human professional 
alchemist (acolyte, adding Arcana +4 to skills). She is 
a direct descendent of Kaiti and Theodoro Vadeki and 
thus the rightful heir of the estate and its ghosts. She’s 
also down on her luck and willing to do some outrageous 
things to get back on her feet, including imploring some 
adventurers to clear out a ruined house, so she can try 
and reclaim it. 
She’s impulsive, energetic, bright, and a little high-
strung. She doesn’t have much money to entice the PCs, 
but she’s willing to allow the PCs their pick of what they 
find in the estate. She does ask them to leave the place 
as intact as they can. Once she’s able to move in, clean 
up, and start her garden and alchemical lab though, she 
swears the PCs can come pick up some freebies any time.
The Vadeki Estate
The estate is located in the central White Forest 
within the Magdar Kingdoms, about a half-day east 
of Redtower village. The estate’s walls are made of 
sturdy stone and still intact, though grayed with age 
and neglect. Unless otherwise noted, the ceilings are 15 
feet high with wooden interior doors. The only exterior 
doors still intact are the sets of double doors in Area 2, 
and the northern doors are already open.
Squares within 10 feet of opened or destroyed exterior 
doors are slick with moss and plants, making them 
difficult terrain. Except for Area 9 and Area 10, which 
can receive light from the exterior, the rest of the estate is 
dark unless otherwise stated.
The roof is less protected than the walls and has the 
potential to collapse (and, in Area 9 and Area 10, it 
already has). Whenever the walls or ceiling inside the 
estate are subject to a significant disturbance—such 
as a fireball spell or a Medium or larger creature being 
thrown into it—there is a 20% chance the roof in that 
5-foot square, and in a 5-foot radius around it, collapses. 
Creatures caught in the collapse must succeed on a DC 
15 Dexterity saving throw, taking 22 (4d10) bludgeoning 
damage on a failed save or half as much on a successful 
one. Additionally, all squares affected by the collapse 
become difficult terrain.
Courtyard Visitors. The undead in Area 11 are 
attracted to significant noise. Specific areas call out when 
undead might be drawn from outside, but whenever 
there is a collapse, regardless of where, it might draw 
their attention. There is a cumulative 10% chance for 
each collapse that 1d3 + 1 skeletons or 1d2 shadows 
from Area 11 are drawn to the noise and move into Area 
6. Incorporeal undead continue through walls to find 
the source of the noise, while skeletons attempt to batter 
down any doors in their way. 
AREA 1: FOREST PATH
The estate can be approached from any direction, but 
most of it is hidden away by overgrown foliage and trees. 
Approaching it from the north reveals a weed-choked, 
cracked cobblestone path when close to the estate, 
leading to the northern doors into Area 2.
Creatures. About 500 feet away from the doors to 
Area 2, a group of eight goblins are engaging in combat 
with an owlbear. They try to stay at range, pelting 
it with arrows as they attempt to withdraw (while 
screaming in Goblin). 
The owlbear focuses on running down and killing the 
goblins one at a time unless the PCs engage, in which 
case she turns and faces the bigger threat. If the owlbear 
dies or there are four or fewer goblins remaining, the 
rest give up and scatter into the woods in a panic, 
BIG-SCROUNGE GOBLINS
This goblin clan, led by chieftain Golden Top-Top, 
have been carefully looting the Vadeki Estate for 
years, tossing dead animals and difficult goblins 
into Area 10 to keep the shambling mound there 
dormant. They panicked after Chrysanthi blundered 
in and woke the whole place up. In the aftermath, 
Golden Top-Top decided they needed bigger prey to 
lull the shambling mound back into dormancy and 
sent a war party to corral a pair of owlbears nesting 
nearby into Area 10. Many goblins died in the 
attempt, but they managed to hit-and-run the male 
owlbear into the atrium. They then lost control of the 
female, and she began mauling them.

--- PAGE 56 ---
54
screeching, “It’s awake! The mound is awake, and we’re 
doomed!” in Goblin.
Goblin Questioning. If the PCs capture any of the 
goblins alive (and are able to question them since they 
only speak Goblin), they plead to be set free and insist 
they don’t know anything. 
A successful DC 10 Charisma (Intimidate) check 
convinces the goblin to comply, and they are able to 
give the following information if asked: 
•	 The Big-Scrounge Clan has been scavenging the estate 
while scouting for Gellert the Gruesome. They fear 
the undead and the shambling mound hibernating 
inside, so they have been slow and careful.
•	 If asked about the shambling mound, the goblin 
doesn’t know the word atrium, so they just describe 
“the room with all the plants.” The clan has tossed in 
offerings sometimes to keep it idle.
•	 Recently a human woman showed up and ruined 
everything. She went inside, panicked, and woke 
everything up.
None of the goblins present are willing to go into the 
estate, even with the PCs, or to give up the location of 
their camp unless they can be persuaded the PCs mean 
them no harm. Letting the goblin go and tracking them 
to their camp would be possible but beyond the scope of 
this adventure (see also Continuing the Adventure). 
Treasure. Looting the goblin bodies nets 20 sp and 
17 cp. 
Owlbear Nest. Tracking the owlbears back to their lair 
requires a successful DC 15 Wisdom (Survival) check. 
It is beneath a fallen oak tree a mile to the southwest. 
There is a half-built nest without eggs and an assortment 
of coins, gems, and gear from—judging by the bones—
dead goblins and an occasional traveler. In all, PCs can 
find 70 gp, 500 sp, 1,000 cp, 7 gems worth 10 gp each, a 
potion of healing, and a spell scroll of light. 
Approaching the Estate
The ruined cobblestone path ends at a pair of stone 
doors, both ajar and opened inward. Moss and creeping 
vines grow toward and around the doors, carpeting 
the pathway inside. The path continues to the west, 
disappearing around the corner of the building. Stone 
walls, 15 feet high, spread in both directions, covered 
in ivy and plagued by overgrowth. To the east, the wall 
gives way to ivy-choked iron fencing. Above the doors, a 
sagging lintel bears an inscription engraved in Elvish.
The inscription reads: “In the past, we find our 
futures—Theodoro and Kaiti Va…” The rest is illegible.
The path to the west leads to the broken doorway in 
the southern part of Area 2. The path to the east leads to 
Area 11.
AREA 2: MAIN HALL
The overgrowth extends 10 feet into this room. This is a 
large space, roughly 30 feet by 50 feet, with a small alcove 
tucked in the southern part of the room with the remnants 
of chairs and couches. The rest of the room is littered with 
rotten tables and benches. A hearth on the western wall 
has a large iron pot sitting on it. Two windows on the east 
side are shattered, vines and foliage creeping around the 
edges. A set of double doors on the eastern wall are shut, 
but a stone door to the southwest lies in rubble on the 
ground, being reclaimed by the elements. 
This room can receive light from outside through the 
broken windows and doorways, but it is otherwise dark 
without a light source. Goblin remains in various states 
of decomposition litter this room.
Creatures. Ten goblin skeletons (changing size to 
Small and replacing short swords with scimitars) sift 
through rubble and debris in different corners of the 
room, pantomiming what they were doing before they 
were slaughtered by undead. They are alerted when the 
PCs enter, and they lurch to attack. 
Two shadows hide by the hearth on the western side 
of the room and behind the rubble created by a large, 
shattered table (passive Perception 14 or higher). They 
attack if spotted or if the PCs look in the cauldron. 
Otherwise, they remain hidden and wait until the PCs 
are resting or engaged in another combat that has 
softened them up.
Treasure. Most of this room has been looted by 
goblins. A successful DC 10 Wisdom (Perception) 
check to search the room yields 11 gp, 19 sp, and 25 cp 
scattered in the debris. 
SPELL SCHOOL KEYS
Both Kaiti and Theodoro were accomplished mages 
who might have taken on apprentices if things worked 
out differently. The puzzle in the courtyard was a 
fusion of their love for magical theory, a desire to 
keep the cellar safe, and an homage to Mnemosyne. 
There are eight keys, each of them smooth, 
8-inch‑diameter stones with runes engraved on them, 
corresponding to one of the schools of magic. These 
runes are representative of the Vadekis interpretation 
of elven magic, so recognizing each rune requires 
a successful DC 10 Intelligence (Arcana) check. The 
stones do not radiate any magic.

--- PAGE 57 ---
55
Inside the cauldron, there is a smooth stone with a 
rune etched into it. This is the transmutation stone, one 
of the keys needed to solve the mnemonic puzzle in Area 
11. Retrieving the stone prompts the hiding shadows to 
attack if they haven’t already. 
AREA 3: GALLERY
This oblong passage, 10 to 20 feet wide, is lined with 
empty, sagging bookshelves on the western side and 
assorted art objects on its northeastern, diagonal side. 
A few dusty portraits remain on the wall, looming with 
menacing expression, and in front rests a row of pedestals, 
bearing busts of humans and elves, broken up by several 
suits of cobweb-laced armor. 
A feeling of being watched emanates from the 
sculptures and paintings. The eyes appear to move 
and follow the PCs to disconcerting effect, imposing 
disadvantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks made 
while in the gallery. 
Tasia Vadeki, the Ghost Girl. Once the PCs enter 
the gallery, a toy wooden ball rolls down the passage 
from the south, pushed by an unseen force. Tasia, a 
translucent young human girl, between 10 and 12 years 
of age, appears in the middle of the gallery. She has her 
hair in two braids and points at the ball:
“Can we play later?” she asks the PCs in Elvish, but then 
she seems to get distracted by the armors. “Oh! Uh, oh, 
I think some things already want to play.” She frowns. 
“They don’t play nice.” 
Tasia vanishes after that.
She disappears immediately if the PCs attack her, 
calling, “No, please don’t!” before she vanishes.
Creatures. Among the suits of armor are three 
animated armors and three specters, lurking behind 
11
3
4
6
5
7
8
2
TO AREA 12
STATUE
FENCE
FENCE
TO AREA 1
X
w
w
w
w
w
w
w
w
X
o
X
10
S
S
9
N
KEY
= OPEN 
DOORWAY
X
= SHRINE
S
= WINDOW
w
= HEARTH 
& POT
o
= RUBBLE/
COLLAPSE
= BARRICADE
= MOSS/ 
OVERGROWTH
= WATER
= GRASS
h

--- PAGE 58 ---
56
them. The armors animate and attack when a PC comes 
within 5 feet of one of them. The armors attempt to 
block the hall while the specters use hit-and-run tactics, 
striking at the PCs by moving through the armors and 
then retreating—or through the walls and ceiling if the 
armors can’t provide good cover. 
The shadows from Area 2 (if not dispatched) may 
join this combat if the PCs are still outnumbered after 
2 rounds.
Each time an animated armor is destroyed, it makes a 
significant amount of noise. There is a cumulative 15% 
chance for each destroyed armor that undead from Area 
11 will be drawn here (see The Vadeki Estate). 
Strange Resemblance. The most prominent portrait 
in the gallery is of Theodoro and Kaiti Vadeki, now dusty 
and dingy with age. If the PCs have met Chrysanthi, 
they may attempt a DC 10 Intelligence check to notice a 
passing resemblance: a hawkish nose seems to have been 
passed down the family from Theodoro, and so has Kaiti’s 
mane of frizzy hair. Some of the other portraits resemble 
the ghosts haunting the estate if the PCs have seen them.
Treasure. Most of the art here is too large or damaged 
to be of worthwhile value. Gemstones pried from the 
frames yield three gems worth 20 gp each and one of the 
busts wears a tiara of elven make worth 85 gp. 
AREA 4: STUDY
A heavy oaken table takes up the center of this room, 
lurching perilously to one side. Worn and broken 
bookshelves line the walls, filled with moldy books, 
tattered scrolls, and grime-encrusted bric-a-brac. 
Areti Marintos, the Thespian Ghost. Any torches 
or lanterns in the room flicker and suddenly brighten. 
“Don’t be afraid,” an ethereal, sparkling voice says before 
Areti, a translucent middle-aged woman in a mask and 
flamboyant dress, appears behind the table: 
“Alas, we cannot linger long—” She is interrupted by 
one of the books flying off the shelf at her. “Oh, behave! 
Naughty books!” Her tone turns exasperated. 
   “Some of the magic around here is getting… 
cantankerous. But caution! Look to the shadows!” She 
calls her final warning before vanishing. 
If the PCs attack Areti at any point, she disappears 
immediately after giving a shocked gasp. “We are on 
your side! How rude!” 
Creatures. After Areti disappears, eight animated 
books (see Appendix) fly off the shelves and flap into the 
THE VADEKI GHOSTS
The three ancestral ghosts are bound in Area 12 and 
currently being protected by a ward, preventing the 
undead from infiltrating. It also affects them, so they 
must strain to push themselves beyond it to manifest. 
When one of them appears aboveground, they remain 
no more than 3 rounds and space out manifestations by 
at least 1 minute. 
The ghosts are friendly, though they understand their 
appearance might frighten the PCs. They attempt to 
help and don’t become hostile if the PCs attack. The 
ghosts flee back to the menhirs, as described in their 
initial appearances. 
Besides these appearances, they can be inserted 
anywhere the PCs need an extra clue in the adventure. 
The ghosts are neutral good and only speak Elvish. 
Each of them has a different ability in place of 
Horrifying Visage, as described below:
Tasia. This is the ghost of Theodoro’s little sister who 
died in a game gone wrong with a playmate in Kammae. 
She is playful but shies from combat. She discusses her 
life and is interested in plants and gardening and speaks 
at length about that and about games. She can use 
telekinesis, which recharges on 3–6.
Vaso. This is the ghost of Kaiti’s great-grandfather 
who was a scholar and librarian. He passed away of old 
age and speaks fondly of the libraries where he once 
worked. He is soft-spoken and serious with a kindly, 
wizened demeanor. He can use tongues at will.
Areti. This is the ghost of Kaiti’s grandmother who 
was arrested and died in prison for acting in a play with 
a bit too much truthful satire about a ruling elf. She 
remains talkative and flamboyant in death, her ghostly 
form still wearing her final, regal costume. She can use 
thaumaturgy at will.
The ghosts’ memories of their lives are a little hazy, 
though they can pick out the specific details they 
liked the best. They are apprehensive around elves or 
elfmarked PCs but can be convinced that times have 
changed. One thing they look forward to is spending 
time with family in ways they didn’t always get to in life. 
They miss Kaiti and Theodoro and want to reconnect 
with their descendant, Chrysanthi, whom they will help 
any way they can.

--- PAGE 59 ---
57
air to attack the PCs. Once destroyed, they crumple to 
the ground in ruins of paper and leather fragments.
Two shadows are hiding in the room’s alcoves and 
attack if spotted (passive Perception 14) or if one of the 
PCs is reduced to fewer than half their hit points during 
the battle with the books. Otherwise, they wait to attack 
the PCs until they rest or are engaged in another combat. 
These shadows, like the ones from Area 2, can be used as 
needed to harry PCs or increase difficulty.
Treasure. Among the shelves is a pair of engraved 
bone dice worth 25 gp and a small obsidian sphere 
worth 10 gp. There are three intact scroll cases with 
spell scrolls of comprehend languages, detect magic, and 
protection from evil and good. Most of the books are 
too damaged to be of value, but there are several tomes 
useful for spell research, including some describing the 
summon ancestor spell (see Appendix), worth 75 gp.
AREA 5: STOREROOM
The door on the southeast wall of Area 4 requires a 
successful DC 10 Strength (Athletics) check to open. It 
can also be beaten open (AC 15; hp 4). 
Regardless, due to the barricade on the other side, the 
door can only be opened enough for one Medium or 
smaller creature to squeeze through at a time until the 
debris on the other side is removed (requiring an action):
A terrible stench, sickeningly sweet like rotten 
fruit and sunbaked waste, pervades this wrecked 
storeroom, littered with broken furniture and 
smashed crates and barrels. Two windows on the 
south wall have tattered cloth and bits of broken 
furniture shoved against them. 
Creatures. Several weeks ago, a large troop of the Big-
Scrounge Clan attempted a deeper push into the Vadeki 
estate. The undead routed them quickly into a dead end 
here, where the goblins barricaded themselves in, not 
realizing the incorporeal undead would just come in and 
pick them off. 
Rotting goblin bodies drew the attention of 
Marrow‑Tooth, a ghast, and his three ghoul followers. 
They came in through the windows and enjoyed a private 
feast. They’ve been making themselves fat on the goblins 
and hibernating for days at a time (after blocking out the 
windows) while the corpses continue to “ripen.” 
When Marrow-Tooth hears the PCs attempting entry, 
he quietly orders his ghouls to hide. A successful DC 15 
Wisdom (Perception) check made with disadvantage 
allows a PC to overhear Marrow-Tooth speaking but not 
the details. 
Marrow-Tooth and the ghouls hide among the debris 
and try to ambush the first PC in the room. One of the 
ghouls will attempt to shut the door or barricade a hole 
to keep the others out. 
The ghouls fight to the death, but Marrow-Tooth 
attempts to flee if dropped to 5 hit points or fewer. If 
captured and questioned (he speaks Common), he can 
tell the PCs how he came to be here after wandering 
the forest with his ghouls. He claims there is something 
“comforting” about this place, referring to the menhirs 
in the cellar (see Area 12). 
If the PCs promise to let him go, he will tell them 
where a treasure is—the abjuration stone resting in the 
viscera of the goblin captain.
Treasure. Apart from the abjuration stone (see The 
Mnemonic Puzzle in Area 11), most objects in here are 
in terrible condition. However, the goblin captain has a 
+1 scimitar with his remains.

--- PAGE 60 ---
58
On a successful DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check, 
the PCs find one crate still intact underneath the rubble, 
containing some old, fine clothing of Elven design and 
with potential value to a collector, worth 250 gp. 
AREA 6: HALL
This 30-foot-long, 10-foot-wide hallway smells like mold 
and mildew with a faint undercurrent of rot. The ceiling 
slopes perilously toward the eastern end where an open 
doorway spills vines and overgrowth into the hall and 
adjoining passages. 
A door in the southern alcove leads to Area 7. At the 
end of the hall, the northern doorway is open and leads 
to Area 11. The door at the eastern end leads to Area 
10 while the passage leading south goes to Area 8 to the 
west and Area 9 to the east. The door to Area 9 is rotted 
and hangs loosely off its hinges. 
Creatures. If any undead were attracted here from 
the courtyard (see The Vadeki Estate) and couldn’t 
reach the PCs, they will still be loitering here to attack. 
Otherwise, it’s easier to attract undead here by making 
too much noise, including shouting, spellcasting, and 
combat, with a 30% cumulative chance of attracting 
undead for each incident. 
AREA 7: BEDROOM
This bedroom, tucked away in the alcove, is surprisingly 
intact but incomplete. It seems intended to be a child’s 
room but shows no sign of use. Under the dust 
and grime, the walls are painted a soft blue, 
and a small bed frame, an empty toybox, 
and a half-built dresser adorn the room. 
Creatures. Tasia’s ethereal voice sounds 
from nearby. “Go away! I don’t want to play 
with you!” She darts through the western wall and 
runs across the room, pausing when she sees the 
PCs. “Watch out! They’re mean!” She passes through 
the eastern wall and vanishes. A round later, two 
specters appear through the western wall and attack.
Treasure. Tucked under the bed, the PCs can find 
the enchantment stone (see The Mnemonic Puzzle 
in Area 11).
AREA 8: BEDROOM
A well-maintained bed, a neatly ordered 
desk, and a crimson flag with a golden 
auroch’s head at its center are the only 
features of this otherwise spartan room. Despite 
the emptiness, it is obvious that a military level of care has 
been put into ensuring its tidiness.
The master bedroom contains a four-poster bed with 
moldering bedding; an open, rotting trunk; a collapsed 
bookshelf; and a wardrobe missing its doors. 
Vaso Marintos, the Scholarly Ghost. A translucent 
elderly human man appears, dressed in robes and 
wearing spectacles. He clears his throat and addresses 
the PCs in any language he’s heard them use the most 
often, employing tongues: 
“The beast in the atrium has something you need to 
reach the cellar. Please do so in a hurry. I’m afraid in our 
excitement to see our descendent, we may have pushed 
on the ward a bit too much. I think it’s failing. Kaiti and 
Theodoro did their best.”

--- PAGE 61 ---
59
If the PCs don’t attack him, he has time to answer one 
question before he must return to his menhir. If they 
attack, he vanishes immediately and scolds them: 
“I don’t think you understand! We are not like the other 
undead!”
Treasure. Searching the room for something useful 
among the debris requires a successful DC 15 Wisdom 
(Perception) check. If successful, the PCs find Kaiti’s 
jewelry box buried among moth-eaten clothing in 
the wardrobe, containing two necklaces worth 50 gp 
each, one worth 18 sp, and two rings worth 10 gp each. 
Additionally, they find a book on alchemy with an 
age‑resistant enchantment on it, worth 40 gp. In the 
trunk, at the bottom, beneath a disintegrating blanket, 
they find two potions of greater restoration.
AREA 9: WASHROOM
The door to this room is rotten and hanging off its 
hinges. Inside, it is partially collapsed along the eastern 
wall, allowing in vines, moss, and mold from the 
northern room through the cracks. A pool of brackish 
water sits stagnant in a corner of the room beneath 
the fallen roof. Any furniture is long rotted—only the 
rusted-out remains of some tubs and basins remaining.
Slippery. The tiles in this room are slick with moss, 
water, and slime. Moving more than 5 feet in a round 
requires a DC 10 Dexterity saving throw to avoid falling 
prone.
Creatures. Three goblin corpses have lain dead in this 
room for a long time, covered by the brackish water. 
Over time, their proximity to the shambling mound in 
Area 10, combined with the necrotic energy of the estate, 
turned them into putrid haunts (see Tome of Beasts, 
changing size to Small). They lie in the water until the 
PCs enter the room and then lurch out and attack.
Treasure. The remaining loot on the goblins includes 
10 sp and 25 cp. One of the goblins has the evocation 
stone (see The Mnemonic Puzzle in Area 11), merged 
with the vines and moss growing out of its body. 
AREA 10: SHATTERED ATRIUM
This oblong chamber is overrun with tangled overgrowth, 
vines, ferns, mushrooms, and less identifiable flora. The 
roof remains in pieces, a few jagged patches of glass 
curving out in the remnants of a dome. The walls are 
cracked and plant-covered, yielding before the elements 
with one large gap in the northeastern wall. The smell of 
dirt, mold, and rot is overpowering.
The overgrowth here extends into the hallway at Area 
6. Each square of this room is difficult terrain.
A Medium or smaller creature can fit through the 
hole in the northeastern wall without squeezing. This is 
where the Big-Scrounge Clan have made most of their 
“offerings” to the shambling mound. 
Creatures. Most of the vegetation here is the 
shambling mound, resting in a heap against the eastern 
wall, digesting its recent meals of owlbear and goblins. 
It has enough bodies to consume that it is unlikely to go 
hunting the PCs, but if they loiter too long, it may lumber 
free and come to them directly.
While fighting in the atrium, major impacts—
including the mound missing an attack as well as fireball 
spells or a creature being slammed into a wall—have 
a 25% chance of causing the remaining glass above to 
shatter. If it does, a 5-foot square of glass breaks, dealing 
11 (2d10) piercing damage to any creature under it and 6 
(1d10) piercing damage to anyone passing through that 
square or remaining in that square each round. 
Treasure. The non-digestible remains of the 
shambling mound’s many meals can be found buried in 
its foliage, including 90 gp and 200 sp. Buried within its 
husk is also the conjuration stone.
Three small, stone shrines are buried beneath 
vegetation around the room. A successful DC 15 
Intelligence (Religion) check identifies them as shrines of 
ancestral devotion. They generate a magic circle against 
undead around the atrium (to keep ghostly visitors from 
withering the plants) that has kept the shambling mound 
safe from the undead. Each of the shrines also contains a 
silver holy symbol of Mnemosyne, two opposing cresting 
waves, embedded in them, each worth 35 gp.
AREA 11: THE COURTYARD
This expansive courtyard is overrun with weeds and 
remnants of once-lush gardens. Walls to the north 
and east are joined by aging, 20-foot-wide iron fences 
strangled with vines. In the center is a 12-foot-high 
statue of a woman in repose on a pedestal, reading a 
scroll. Ivy wraps around the statue, but her toga-like 
dress is still visible, as is a crown like a cresting wave 
at her brow. At the base of the statue are eight carved 
recesses meant for holding small, round objects.
Scaling the iron fences requires a successful DC 10 
Strength (Athletics) check. 
Creatures. The courtyard is a focal point of undead in 
the area, with the more mindless among them aimlessly 
milling about. They sense the draw of the menhirs 
below but are unable to get to it due to the ward Kaiti 
and Theodoro placed before they fled.

--- PAGE 62 ---
60
BYPASSING THE PUZZLE
If the PCs struggle with the mnemonic code, or prefer 
to skip ahead, consider the following suggestions:
•	 Allow a DC 15 Intelligence check to deduce the 
mnemonic’s purpose and determine the right 
order to place the stones.
•	 If reading the inscription or identifying any of 
the stones is an issue, allow one of the ancestral 
ghosts to appear and help translate (they will 
read what they can within 3 rounds).
•	 There is no consequence if the PCs simply wish 
to try every combination of stones in every slot, 
other than time and potential encounters with 
more undead or goblins.
THE MENHIRS
Kaiti and Theodoro used an earth elemental to shape 
the menhirs as their anchor for summon ancestor (see 
Appendix). Incorporating magical stones from Memoria 
that could store memories, they were able to build that 
magic into the binding to make these summonings 
permanent. This has allowed the ancestral ghosts to 
remain, but destroying the stones will discorporate 
them, sending them back to the afterlife.
There can be a maximum of eight goblin skeletons 
and six shadows in the courtyard. However, these 
creatures are intended to drift through the estate in 
small groups to harry the PCs during other encounters 
rather than be faced here at once. To make the 
encounter easier, reduce the number of shadows. To 
make it harder, or if the courtyard is empty or nearly 
empty, replace the shadows with a wraith attempting 
to brute-force past the weakening wards. The shadows 
hide in the foliage until the skeletons engage before 
moving to attack. 
Treasure. The skeletons have 23 sp between them 
and one turquoise gem worth 10 gp. A successful DC 15 
Intelligence (Nature) check in the garden finds several 
plants valuable to alchemists—a total of 50 gp worth of 
alchemical reagents. 
The Mnemonic Puzzle. The courtyard statue depicts 
Mnemosyne, the goddess of memory, recognizable with 
a successful DC 20 Intelligence (Religion) check. Her 
statue’s base is a wide circle with an inscription written 
in Elvish around it: 
“Time dances in circles evermore, not endless angles.”
Eight spherical depressions, each roughly 8 inches 
in diameter, run along the facing of the base beneath 
the inscription. To access the cellar, the stones must be 
placed in the proper order to unlock the trapdoor and 
bypass the ward. Each stone refers to a particular school 
of magic, and the inscription is a mnemonic device that 
tells them the order: transmutation, divination, illusion, 
conjuration, evocation, necromancy, enchantment, 
abjuration.
Placed improperly, nothing happens. When the 
stones are placed in the right order, there is an audible 
click of the trapdoor unlocking.
Two of the stones, divination and necromancy, are 
already in place. One of the stones, illusion, is on the 
ground within 10 feet of the statue. The remaining five 
are scattered within the estate.
AREA 12: THE CELLAR
The trapdoor to the cellar is hidden beneath bushes near 
the statue of Mnemosyne in Area 11. Finding it without 
solving the mnemonic puzzle requires a successful DC 
20 Wisdom (Perception) check. Unlocking it is possible 
with a successful DC 25 Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) 
check, or it can be bashed open with the proper tools 
(AC 17; hp 15):
A 5-foot-wide hole in the ground has an iron ladder 
attached to one side, descending into a dark stone tunnel.
The PCs emerge at the 10-foot-by-10-foot landing of 
a stairwell, leading down. The cellar is dark and made of 
stone with a 10-foot-high ceiling. The staircase extends 
10 feet down to an open stone archway where a faint 
blue glow is visible. Past the archway, describe the cellar 
by reading the following:
This 40-foot-long, narrow room ends in a wider chamber 
to the south and branches into an offshoot to the east 
about 10 feet away. Near the archway into this room 
stands a 6-foot-high menhir with a blue inlaid stone, 
glowing with an internal light and inscribed with a symbol 
The menhirs are not inherently magical; they only 
radiate some residual magic from the persistent effect. 
The blue stones, however, are magic items now fused 
with the stone. Attempting to remove them from the 
menhirs will destroy them, and they can be broken (AC 
13; hp 2).Tasia is bound to the northern menhir, Vaso is 
to the south, and Areti to the east.

--- PAGE 63 ---
61
of two opposite-facing, cresting waves. In the southern 
chamber, there is another one of these menhirs, and a blue 
light emanates from an unseen source from the eastern 
passage. Bookshelves line the wall across from the archway 
and in the southern chamber.
Once the PCs enter the chamber, Tasia appears at the 
closest menhir, greeting them with a cheerful “Hello!” 
unless they’ve been openly hostile, in which case she 
hides while they talk to Areti and Vaso.
Creatures. The ancestral ghosts remain visible for as 
long as desired in the cellar. Unless the PCs have been 
hostile, the ghosts are friendly but concerned about 
Chrysanthi and the estate. They are a little quirky from 
all the time stuck in the cellar, despite being unaware 
of how much time has passed thanks to many bouts of 
ethereal dormancy.
The ghosts can discuss any of the following topics. 
Areti is the most sociable and sentimental, Vaso is the 
most knowledgeable, and Tasia is playful and excited 
about having a living person in the family:
•	 They remember Kaiti and Theodoro, necromancers 
belonging to a cult of Mnemosyne, goddess of 
memory, though this is something that came after 
the ghosts’ time. They know what they were told 
about Memoria and the rituals and that something 
bad happened, but they do not know why Kaiti and 
Theodoro never returned.
•	 Chrysanthi is their descendent and heir to the estate, 
which they sensed as soon as she stepped foot on 
the grounds. They feel badly for scaring her off by 
accident and would like to make amends.
•	 They are upset about the goblins pillaging 
aboveground and occasionally tried to scare them off, 
but they can’t be up there long. The goblins are also 
perpetuating the undead problem.
•	 They are aware the menhirs exude a certain amount 
of necrotic energy, which draws the undead, but only 
in a limited area or there would be far more infesting 
the estate. 
•	 They aren’t sure what created the shambling mound 
but suspect it was a mix of old enchantments wearing 
down and the broken atrium, exposing the interior to 
the elements. 
The ghosts are not hostile unless the PCs refuse to 
listen to them and try to destroy their menhir anchors. 
They want to convince the PCs they mean no harm, and 
they only want to help Chrysanthi come home.
STATUS IN MIDGARD
If you are using Status (see Midgard Wo rldbook) 
and the PCs reunite Chrysanthi with her ghostly 
ancestors and clear out the estate, the PCs gain +2 
to their Status with the residents of Redtower. These 
modifiers stack with similar Status modifiers the PCs 
may possess.

--- PAGE 64 ---
62
If the PCs attack a menhir, the ghosts plead with 
them to reconsider. They will attempt diplomacy up 
until one of the stones is destroyed and one of them 
discorporated. At that point, one of the ghosts will 
attempt to possess the strongest-looking PC while the 
other attacks. 
The Vadeki Heir. Resolving the adventure depends 
on the PCs’ decision with how to approach Chrysanthi. 
Her ancestral ghosts want to get to know her and help 
her however they can. 
They acknowledge the necrotic energy of the menhirs 
may continue to draw undead but believe there may be 
means to get around it. And while they wish to stay and 
be a part of their descendant’s life, they are willing to 
move on if Chrysanthi tells them she wishes it. 
They implore the PCs to take their offer to Chrysanthi 
and will honor whatever she decides. If they do, they 
promise they will reward the PCs with something Kaiti 
and Theodoro left behind.
Treasure. Little survived here apart from dilapidated 
furniture and decaying goods, but a few books on Elven 
history and the Seven Cities remain intact, worth 250 gp 
to a collector. 
If the PCs agree to bring Chrysanthi to them, the ghosts 
show them a loose stone in Areti’s alcove that is actually 
one of the items Kaiti and Theodoro used to create this 
chamber: a stone of controlling earth elementals.
The ghosts also offer to tutor one of the PCs in the 
summon ancestor spell (see Appendix), if any of them 
are capable of learning it.
Concluding the Adventure
It is up to the PCs what they tell Chrysanthi about the 
ghosts at the estate. She’ll opt for whichever path they 
recommend. If they tell her to get rid of the ghosts, 
whether because it’s too dangerous or because they don’t 
belong on this plane, then she will nervously agree to go 
tell them. 
In that case, the ghosts sadly bid her farewell and 
show her how to destroy the memory stones binding 
them, which also gets rid of the necrotic aura that draws 
undead here.
If the PCs tell her the ghosts are friendly and want to 
help her, Chrysanthi will hesitantly go to meet them. 
The ghosts are overjoyed to see her and immediately 
beset her with advice on how to rebuild the estate. 
Chrysanthi is a little overwhelmed but admits she 
never really got to know her parents before they died, 
and maybe this is a second chance at family—albeit a 
strange and unorthodox one.
Chrysanthi believes the gardens at the estate 
should offer enough alchemical material for her to 
put together some things to sell, especially if she has 
the ghosts’ help. Once she’s set up, she hopes to start 
being able to invest in repairing the estate, cultivating 
the gardens, and putting some life into the place—so 
to speak.
She promises the PCs can come back once she’s 
established and get free potions for life—or at least 
one per visit. (If the PCs give her the alchemical 
materials and items they’ve collected so far, then she is 
very grateful and amends her offer to a free potion per 
PC when they come see her as well as a place to stay 
whenever they need it.)
Continuing the Adventure
If desired, the PCs can continue the adventure around 
the Vadeki estate:
•	 They can remain and help Chrysanthi clean up the 
estate and defend it from trouble around the forest, 
potentially creating their own adventuring safehouse 
here.
•	 They could seek out a means of reducing the effects of 
the menhirs’ necrotic aura, protecting it from further 
undead incursion (if the ghosts remain).
•	 They could track down the Big-Scrounge Clan and 
drive them off or wipe them out.
If they are intrigued by the cult of Mnemosyne, 
perhaps they could investigate the ruins of this so‑called 
Memoria (see previous The Light of Memoria chapter) 
farther west or go farther still and research this 
mysterious goddess in Kammae.

--- PAGE 65 ---
63
RAID ON THE SAVAGE OASIS
This adventure takes place in a secluded oasis within 
a large gorge south of Allain and east of Bourgund, in 
what was once the Magocracy of Uxloon (in the Western 
Wastes), but can be adapted to any similarly isolated and 
desolate area.
Adventure Background
At random intervals—typically no more than twice 
annually but often not reoccurring for several years—
massive storms brew in the Western Wastes, dangerous 
thunderstorms that unleash torrents of rain from clouds 
that flicker with multi-colored lightning. Flash floods 
sweep through the barren hills and across the dust-laden 
plains, washing everything in uncontrolled magic. In the 
wake of these storms, a great explosion of growth occurs. 
This time is known as the Mad Spring, when plant 
life bursts from the ground in a lush eruption of strange 
life. Some scholars believe these plants may have been 
carried, as spores or wind-borne seeds, from Carnessa, 
a jungle to the south beyond the Wall. Unable to grow 
in the harsh conditions here, they have adapted, lying 
buried until the magic-charged rains come to give them 
the impetus to grow. Others suggest the plants are 
mutated remnants of the greenery that once existed here, 
forced into rapid resurgence and twisted by the strange 
magics carried by the storms. Whatever the case, the 
time is a boon for those tortured beings that eke out a 
living. The Mad Spring brings unprecedented resources 
into an otherwise barren land, and those that survive the 
terrible storms and floods seize upon the opportunity 
that awaits in the bounty which comes after.
The growing season of the Mad Spring is swift. Plants 
reach full size and fruit in a matter of weeks, using the 
water from the floods before it dries up. Eventually, the 
plant life shrivels and dies. But before this can happen, 
the tribes that live in and around the wastes forage 
from the great bounty that awaits them. The price can 
be high since many of these plants are dangerous, and 
monsters lurk among them. The risk is typically worth 
the reward though. The Wild Harvest, as the locals call it, 
can feed a group for the better part of a year, or beyond. 
Wastelanders risk their lives and possible mutation to 
gather the versatile and wondrous foodstuffs available in 
this short window of time. (You can read more about the 
Mad Spring in Warlock 24: Weird Fantasy.)
	 One of the most contested places during the Wild 
Harvest is a secluded, bowl-shaped valley that was once 
an experimental garden for a wizard who specialized 
in botany prior to the destruction of Uxloon. The only 
entrance (other than flight or scaling the sheer rock that 
surrounds the place) is a single door located in the great 
chasm where the Hungering Cocoon resides. During the 
Mad Spring, runoff feeds a waterfall that empties into a 
pool in the hidden vale, turning it into a “savage oasis” 
filled with wild and often dangerous life. An abundance 
of vegetation springs forth from the terraced landscape, 
once cultivated by the botanical wizard and now 
mutated with long exposure to the corrupt magic of the 
wastes. The greatest prize here is the seed of the Shrine 
Tree, said to be able to cure all manner of ills.
Recent Events
The Savage Oasis and the wizard’s work area are 
currently occupied by the Fallen Children, a group 
of outcasts and outlaws led by a former slaver named 
Nazaire. This ragged group of dusty, wizened, desperate 
folk have bonded in their adherence to a strange, 
religious dogma that combines elements of druidism, 
Great Old One worship, and fragments of doctrine from 
worshipers of Mavros. Nazaire discovered the Savage 
Oasis while planning a pilgrimage to the Seat of Mavros 
shortly after the current Mad Spring started and quickly 
started collecting followers. 
Having learned of the Shrine Tree and its powers, 
Nazaire’s minions work to harvest the bounty of the 
place while he waits for the tree’s seed to reach maturity, 
hoping it will cure his disfigurements. He has brokered 
a deal with a qwyllion, Acraecea, who is on the run. 
The twisted nymph is allowed to reside here, safe from 
her enemies, in return for protecting it while the Fallen 
Children restock their food stores before beginning 
their pilgrimage.
For 5th-Level Characters

--- PAGE 66 ---
64
Adventure Hooks
Andres DeMarque, a wizard from Bourgund and still 
loyal to his bonded knight, worries that Sir Chancel’s 
advanced years mean he is soon to depart this world. 
Andres loves Chancel and does not want to lose him—
for reasons greater than just his feelings. Sir Chancel’s 
death would mean Andres would need to be bonded to 
a new knight, and he finds most of them to be intrusive, 
abrupt, and suspicious of the mages. Worse, Andres fears 
that those mages seeking to throw off their own bonds 
would attempt to coerce him to assist them in another 
revolt once he was free of his bond to Sir Chancel.
During his research, Andres learned of the hidden 
oasis and the Mad Spring from agents in the wastes, 
telling of the Shrine Tree and its miraculous seeds. He 
wishes to acquire this rare seed and use it to create an 
elixir to bolster Sir Chancel’s declining health. He has 
been discretely seeking adventurers to make the trek. 
Andres offers a reward of 2,500 gp, or 
potions roughly equal to the monetary 
reward, to any group that brings him 
a seed from the Shrine Tree.
The PCs could have other reasons 
for venturing into the wastes during 
the Mad Spring of course. Below are 
some suggestions:
•	 Bourgund is known for the strong 
and long-lasting perfumes crafted 
there. The strange plants that grow 
during the Mad Spring are sure 
to provide new scents that would 
be of great interest to Bourgund’s 
perfumers, who would pay well for 
such ingredients.
•	 A wizard with interests in botany 
has discovered remnants of the 
work of another wizard who once 
owned a hidden oasis. She will 
pay well for samples of the various 
plants that grow there, including a 
hefty bonus for any research notes 
or tomes that might be found.
•	 Acraecea, a foul qwyllion, is wanted 
for terrible crimes against the 
people of Allain and Bourgund. 
Both nations have a standing 
bounty on her head. An informant 
has sold the PCs the location of her 
most recent hideout.
Entrance to the Savage Oasis
The main entrance to the place is at the bottom of a large 
gorge south of Allain and east of Bourgund, in what was 
once the Magocracy of Uxloon. A stone door is set into 
the cliff face on the north side of the gorge. The door 
has no handle or visible locking mechanism. Its only 
adornment is a bas relief of a humanoid face, like a death 
mask. A creature approaching within 5 feet of it causes 
the eyes of the face to open, revealing a pair of glowing, 
crystal eyes. If the creature is recognized, the door swings 
inward, shutting behind the creature when it passes 
unless braced open. If the creature is not recognized 
to be allowed within, the eyes shut again and the door 
remains closed. Those within are able to manipulate 
the door’s magic to open under specific circumstances, 
allowing it to recognize specific creatures. A creature 
inside can leave simply by using the handle on the inside 
to open the door as if it were not locked.

--- PAGE 67 ---
65
PCs using detect magic can examine the pattern of the 
door’s enchantment and find a way to circumvent them. 
A successful DC 14 Intelligence (Arcana) check allows a 
PC who can see the magical pattern to alter it, allowing 
the PCs access through the door. This procedure takes 
1 minute. Forcing the door is faster but more difficult, 
requiring a successful DC 18 Strength (Athletics) check. 
If the PCs attempt to destroy the door, it has AC 17, 30 
hit points, and a damage threshold of 8.
No creatures are encountered here as the gorge is 
home to the Hungering Cocoon. The massive, oozing 
mound of flesh travels blindly through the chasm, 
overrunning and absorbing every living thing it 
encounters. The quivering mound is encrusted with 
filth and grime, and occasionally, when seen from close 
enough, one can notice cysts on its surface. The cysts 
appear to hold fetal forms of creatures floating within 
them. The Hungering Cocoon is the size of a castle, 
and adventurers hear and see it coming from a long 
way off. The PCs aren’t meant to combat the creature, 
but its presence should provide heightened tension 
while attempting entrance to the Savage Oasis. You can 
provide the players with descriptions of the behemoth as 
it jags and veers along the chasm in the distance as they 
examine the door and seek entry. Describe it for them as 
their characters watch the immense abomination getting 
ever closer as they work, its bulk eventually casting them 
into shadow as it shakes and shudders its way across the 
floor of the chasm. At the last moment, they get the door 
open and rush inside, shutting the portal behind them 
and hearing the scrape of the beast’s massive bulk as it 
slides along the other side of the wall.
AREA 1: ENTRANCE
A short hallway ends in a second stone door. To the west 
of the entrance is an alcove with floor, walls, and ceiling 
crafted of a smooth, translucent blue crystal.
This hallway contains an alcove and the magical 
mechanism responsible for controlling the exterior door.
Decontamination Alcove. If a creature steps into 
the alcove, a shimmering wall of force seals it inside. 
The walls, floor, and ceiling then bathe the alcove in 
a soft blue light. Creatures in the alcove feel nothing 
but a faint tingling. The energies decontaminate the 
occupant, killing any spores, seeds, or living plants. If 
a plant creature enters the alcove, it must make a DC 
14 Constitution saving throw, taking 27 (5d10) radiant 
damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a 
successful one. If this damage reduces a creature to 0 
hit points, its body is destroyed, turning to fine dust. 
Creatures that are diseased or carrying parasites are 
cured of such afflictions. After 1 round, the light fades 
and the wall of force vanishes, allowing creatures to 
enter or exit the alcove. A successful DC 14 Intelligence 
(Arcana or Nature) check after witnessing the alcove’s 
activation determines the alcove’s purpose. The DC 
increases to 18 if a PC is attempting to determine the 
alcove’s purpose before it activates. This fixture was 
placed by the wizard who originally built the garden to 
ensure invasive species could not be accidentally tracked 
in and allowed to contaminate the experimental garden.
Outer Door, Interior. A magic sigil is inscribed on the 
interior of the southern door. A creature touching the 
sigil can take an action to specify the conditions under 
which the outer door will open, being as general (open 
for anyone) or as specific (only open for a bald dwarf 
carrying an adamantine axe) as they choose. The level of 
the door’s security changes on initiative count 20 of the 
following round.
Inner Door. The second door is likewise magical and 
identical to the outer door, except it lacks a sigil and 
can’t be changed. It opens only if every creature in the 
entrance hall has taken a turn in the decontamination 
alcove. A PC who casts detect magic to study the door’s 
enchantment and succeeds on a DC 14 Intelligence 
(Arcana) check can spend an action to temporarily fool 
the door into thinking all creatures in the room have been 
decontaminated, thus allowing them to open the door.
AREA 2: ROOM OF THE VERDANT PILLAR
This hall is empty except for a single pillar at its center. 
Standing a few feet shy of the ceiling, this block of stone is 
a brilliant green and slightly translucent. The air smells 
fresher than in nearby rooms.
Nazaire’s people originally bedded down in this room, 
but the strangeness of the pillar made them rethink 
that arrangement. Now they all crowd in Area 8. Thus 
far, they have avoided this room, but with the ever-
increasing harvest, they may need to use it as storage.
Verdant Pillar. The pillar is a single block of stone, 
2 feet to a side and standing 7 feet tall. It is fashioned 
of a translucent green stone. It is warm to the touch 
and smells of green, growing things. It radiates magic. 
A successful DC 16 Intelligence (Arcana or Nature) 
check determines the magic of the pillar is connected to 
living things, specifically plants, though without specific 
training, the exact extent of its powers are beyond most 
people. If a spellcaster takes the time to attune itself to 
the pillar, the next time the spellcaster casts a spell that 
has plants as part of its effect (such as entangle) or a spell 
that affects plants (such as plant growth), the spellcaster 
increases the area of effect of the spell by half. This only 
affects the first spell of this type that is cast. To gain the 
benefits again, the spellcaster must reattune to the pillar.

--- PAGE 68 ---
66
15
14
3
6
5
7
8
1
4
N
h
2
13
9
10
11
12

--- PAGE 69 ---
67
AREA 3: DINING AREA
A large, round table sits in the center of this room, 
surrounded by four stools. The top of the table holds a 
strange assortment of fruits and vegetables. Piled on the 
floor against the unfinished north wall is an assortment 
of glassware and lab equipment. Three small niches are 
worked into the south wall, each holding a small bell jar.
Four cult fanatics occupy this room, sorting their 
latest harvest from the Savage Oasis. They are hostile to 
anyone they do not recognize as members of their tribe. 
If half of them fall, the others attempt to flee, moving to 
Area 8 to call for reinforcements.
Treasure. The food on the table is equivalent to 30 
days of rations, but it perishes within a week if not 
properly dried or otherwise preserved. The three bell 
jars in the wall niches are magical, and any organic 
material placed in one of them is magically preserved, 
remaining in the same condition it was when it was first 
placed inside. When removed from the jar, the material 
continues to decay at its normal rate. Each jar can hold 
up to 1/2 cubic foot of material (approximately 3 days of 
rations). The PCs can use a jar to store fresh rations or 
to preserve a small, wholly intact plant from the oasis for 
botanists and perfumers in Bourgund. The PCs receive 
300 gp for each intact plant they bring to Bourgund. The 
cult fanatics collectively carry 28 sp and 34 cp.
AREA 4: STORAGE AREA
A finished area of stone juts off from the rough tunnel. It is 
stacked with sacks and baskets full of fruits and vegetables.
A successful DC 14 Wisdom (Perception) check hears 
faint rustling and chewing coming from the stack of 
foodstuffs. If the pile is disturbed, the insects that have 
infested the store become angry and defend their food, 
forming two swarms of insects that crawl out to attack 
intruders. If the PCs flee the area, the swarms don’t 
pursue, returning to their feeding.
Food. There is currently enough food stored here to 
feed a dozen people for 2 weeks. However, much of it is 
full of holes, partially eaten, and laden with insect eggs. 
The food is still edible but possibly unappetizing. If a PC 
casts purify food and drink on the food, the insect eggs 
and remains in the food are removed.
AREA 5: MEANDERING PASSAGE
This rough passage twists off into the distance, rubble and 
debris from the ages scattered on the floor and piled 
against the walls. A strange metal cabinet is affixed to the 
western wall, its rusty surface covered with levers, wheels, 
and switches.
The dirty floor of the passage shows the most traffic 
between Areas 3, 4, and 7. The northern section of the 
passage is dusty with signs of little to no traffic. The 
cabinet on the western wall appears to have remained 
untouched for decades. 
Control Panel. This passage serves no real purpose but 
to house the strange piece of machinery that sits here. 
This was the control unit for experimental treatments 
the wizard had developed for his garden. Long unused, 
d100
Effect
01–25
No effect.
26–50
Insecticide sprays in Areas 10–15, but the concoction has 
weakened over time. Insects are not killed but enraged. 
Add one swarm of insects to each of those areas. If this 
result is rolled a second time, the second dose kills any 
swarms. This result has no effect after the second time.
51–60
A magical fertilizer is applied to Areas 6 and 10–15, 
causing rapid growth. All terrain in Areas 10–15 is now 
considered difficult terrain. Each plant creature in Areas 
6 and 10–15 gain 11 (2d10) temporary hit points and 
a +2 bonus to attack and damage rolls. If this result is 
rolled again, it has no effect.
61–70
A purifying element is released into the water in Areas 
10–15. Acraecea’s corrupt form is inadvertently affected, 
and she is poisoned for 1 hour. If this result is rolled 
again, it has no effect.
71–90
Herbicide is released into the test planter in Area 6, 
killing the quash moss (see Hazards in Appendix).
91–95
That particular lever/switch/wheel shorts out, causing 
smoke and dealing 11 (2d10) lightning damage to the 
creature that triggered it.
96–00
Same as a roll of 91–95, except the resulting feedback 
shorts out the entire machine, causing a cloud of smoke 
to fill the entire passageway for 1 minute, which heavily 
obscures the area and possibly alerts creatures in nearby 
areas to the PCs’ presence, at GM’s discretion.
 
STATUS IN MIDGARD
If you are using Status (see Midgard Worldbook) 
and the PCs successfully fulfill a quest involving the 
Savage Oasis, the PCs gain +1 to their Status in the 
region where the quest originated (likely Allain or 
Bourgund). These modifiers stack with similar Status 
modifiers the PCs may possess.

--- PAGE 70 ---
68
most of the controls no longer function; the ones that do 
are haphazard and unpredictable. Most of the effects of 
manipulating the controls can’t be noticed here, but they 
can affect encounters elsewhere in the complex. If a PC 
activates a random switch, wheel, or lever, roll percentile 
dice and consult the table below to determine the results.
AREA 6: BOTANICAL LABORATORY
A large hollow is carved into the floor at the center of this 
room. It is filled with a thick green moss, which is covered 
in small white berries and gives off a scent reminiscent of 
baking bread. Small tables and cabinets stand against the 
walls, their tops covered with assorted glassware.
Three druids, members of Nazaire’s clan, are here, 
experimenting with the patch of quash moss (see 
Hazards in Appendix) that grows in the depression. 
The moss attacks any creature that comes near it, except 
for the druids who wear small charms enchanted to 
make the quash moss ignore them. The druids attack 
anyone not of their clan who enters the area. If two of 
them fall, the third attempts to retreat to Area 8 to warn 
of the intruders.
Treasure. The druids carry a total of 32 sp and 40 cp 
and wear small, rough wooden charms. If a PC wears 
one, none of the plant creatures in the oasis attack that 
PC unless the PC attacks or damages the creature first. 
The shambling mound in Area 12 is immune to the 
effect of the charms. 
One of the cabinets holds several journals belonging 
to the wizard that once owned this oasis. If read in 
full (a process taking several hours), they provide 
information on the special plants found throughout the 
complex and the garden, including the Shrine Tree and 
the proper method of harvesting its seed. The journals 
also contain the password needed to keep the guardian 
statues from becoming hostile (see Area 9 and Area 
10). Finding specific information within the journals 
requires 10 minutes and a successful DC 12 Intelligence 
(Investigation) check to locate. If the check succeeds 
by 5 or more, the time required to read the journals is 
halved. The books are worth 1,000 gp to the right buyer. 
If the quash moss is killed, ten of the berries growing 
on it turn a vivid purple in color. These berries act as 
the products of a goodberry spell. If not eaten within 24 
hours, however, each berry produces more quash moss, 
growing into a full-sized (and hostile) patch within 1 
hour after 24 hours have passed.
AREA 7: TRAPPED JUNCTION
The passageway widens into a small cave, empty save for 
a few berries, leaves, and twigs scattered on the floor. Two 
other rough tunnels exit the area.
Illusion-Shrouded Pit. In the center of the room, a 
50-foot-deep pit lies covered with an illusion to appear 
as a normal floor. When one of Nazaire’s followers fell 
to his death, one of the others marked the floor, so they 
could avoid the trap in the future. Now they use the pit 
to dispose of unwanted vegetation. A creature that falls 
into the pit takes half the normal falling damage since the 
decaying vegetation piled at the bottom softens the fall.
Prevention. Anyone examining the floor carefully and 
succeeding on a DC 16 Intelligence (Investigation) or 
Wisdom (Perception) check notices faint scratches on 
the floor outlining a rough square, just over 5 feet per 
side. Tactile investigation of the floor within the square 
reveals it to be nothing more than an illusion. 
Creature. Some of the plants have continued to grow 
and mutate, and a mass of asp vines (see Appendix) 
lurks in the pile at the bottom of the pit. The asp vines 
attack any creature that falls into the pit, scoring it with 
their poisonous thorns until it dies. The vegetation in the 
pit is littered with the bones of small rodents that have 
fallen prey to the vines.
AREA 8: EXHIBITION HALL
The rough tunnel transitions into worked stone. Where 
large doors once hung is an open doorway, leading into 
a cross-shaped hall. The floor is strewn with bedrolls and 
packs. A glass cabinet at the far end of the hall appears 
to be a terrarium of some sort, holding a cascade of moss 
and vines. An alcove to the south holds wall-mounted 
glass cases, and a pair of bronze double doors sit in a 
branch off the northern wall.
The doors that opened into this hall were removed 
long before the Fallen Children arrived. Nazaire’s people 
have chosen to use this large area as a barracks during 
their time here. The cases in the southern wall have been 
left untouched after one of the clan’s members broke 
open one of the small, glass cases and was infected with 
a rapidly spreading growth of vegetation. That clan 
member now lurks in the undergrowth of the middle tier 
of the oasis (see Area 12).
Creatures. The bulk of Nazaire’s people are resting 
here when not laboring with the harvest. Ten Fallen 
Children clansfolk (thugs) are currently here, lounging. 
They attack anyone they do not recognize. If half or more 
of their number fall, the rest attempt to retreat out the 
doors to the oasis to warn Nazaire.

--- PAGE 71 ---
69
The Green Mantle. A glass cabinet stands at the 
eastern end of the hall. What from a distance seems 
to be a terrarium of hanging plants is revealed to be a 
long garment woven of moss, vines, and other living 
plants: a cursed green mantle (see Appendix)—the 
decontamination alcove in Area 1 destroys the green 
mantle, removing the curse. The cabinet opens easily, 
though it has remained untouched by the Fallen 
Children. After the accident with the display cases, 
Nazaire ordered his people to leave the rest of the cases 
alone as they might be dangerous. The cabinet is filled 
with magically created humidity, keeping the interior full 
of moisture even outside the season of the Mad Spring.
Display Cases. Seven glass cases are mounted to the 
walls. Each contains some type of plant matter—seeds, 
mosses, cuttings, flowers, and other parts—except for 
one, which is broken. Shards of glass lie on the floor 
beneath the broken case. Withered vines, moss, and 
other plants lie in patches on the floor among the glass 
shards and even on the wall, spreading out from the 
broken and now empty case. The other cases have doors 
that can pulled open and contain the following:
•	 A dozen small, hard brown seeds lie in grass clippings. 
If these seeds are planted and watered, they sprout into 
long, thorny vines, becoming a full-grown patch of asp 
vines (see Appendix) in 30 days (or 24 hours if planted 
in the Savage Oasis).
•	 A puffball mushroom sits alone in the case. If touched, 
it releases a cloud of spores within 5 feet of the display 
case. These spores act as dust of sneezing and choking.
•	 A vine covered in small, purple flowers wraps around 
a makeshift tree branch. If the case is opened, the 
heady aroma of the flowers is released. Each creature 
within 5 feet of the display case must make a DC 15 
Constitution saving throw. On a failure, a creature 
falls unconscious for 10 minutes. On a success, a 
creature is incapacitated until the end of its next turn. 
If the flowers can be transported fresh and intact to a 
perfumery in Bourgund, they can be sold for 250 gp. 
•	 This case is half full of clean, clear water with a layer 
of pinkish-white algae growing on its surface. A 
successful DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check notices 
a fine layer of silver dust on the bottom of the case. 
This algae feeds on impurities in water, turning them 
to silver. The algae can remove any contaminants in up 
to 1 gallon of water in 1 hour, making it clean and safe 
to drink, while producing 5 cp worth of silver dust in 
the process. A successful DC 15 Intelligence (Nature) 
check determines the algae’s properties without 
opening the display case. If the PC interacts with the 
algae or the water, the PC has advantage on this check. 
•	 A half dozen dark brown mushrooms with caps 
covered in white pustules grow in this case. A tea 
brewed from one of these mushrooms is bitter and 
difficult to choke down, but it has useful healing 
properties. If a creature completes a short rest within 
24 hours of drinking this tea and spends Hit Dice 
to regain hit points, it rolls two dice and uses the 
higher of the two rolls. If a creature completes a long 
rest within 24 hours of drinking this tea, it regains 1 
extra spent Hit Die. A successful DC 15 Intelligence 
(Nature) or Wisdom (Medicine or Survival) check 
recalls the properties of this mushroom. 
•	 A small plant bears a golden, plum-sized fruit that 
gives off bright light in a 5-foot radius and dim light 
for an additional 5 feet. The fruit is juicy and delicious. 
For 8 hours after eating the fruit, a creature gives off 
light like the fruit. A successful dispel magic (DC 11) 
counters the effects.
FURTHER ENCOUNTERS
The full extent of the final tier of the Savage Oasis is up 
to you. There is enough heavy undergrowth and trees 
to provide other encounter areas should you and your 
players wish to further explore the area. The Savage 
Oasis is a prime spot to add other plant creatures or 
even magically mutated river-based creatures, washed 
into this valley from the waterfall. You can also add 
flying fauna that would be attracted to such a place of 
bounty as well, such as insects, predators that spot the 
place from overhead, or other monsters that would like 
such terrain for food, rearing young, or lairing.
You can also take creatures that wouldn’t normally be 
found in such environs and “reskin” them to your wants 
and needs. For example, you could use the statistics 
of a roper but describe it as a new type of carnivorous 
fungus or plant that looks like a tree or giant mushroom 
until it moves. A little creativity makes for new and 
exciting encounters.

--- PAGE 72 ---
70
AREA 9: BALCONY
A railed stone balcony overlooks a chasm filled with 
vibrant, verdant life. A series of terraces descend down 
into the crevasse, each rife with a variety of plant life. A 
waterfall plummets down the cliff to the east, feeding a 
stream that empties into a multi-level pond, which fills a 
portion of the two middle-level terraces. A pair of bronze 
nymph statues, green with age and exposure, stand in the 
corners of the balcony. Several score marks cover their 
surfaces, exposing the metal beneath the verdigris, as if 
something had raked them repeatedly with claws. A set of 
stairs to the east descends to the first terrace.
The balcony provides an excellent view of the 
entire oasis, impeded only by the vegetation and light 
conditions (during the day, the entire area is brightly 
lit). A successful Wisdom (Perception) check against 
the following DCs allows those observing from the 
balcony to see the following occupants of the Savage 
Oasis: Acraecea in Area 13 (DC 18); Fallen Children 
clan members in Area 11 (DC 13) and Area 14 (DC 14), 
Nazaire in Area 15 (DC 20), or the shambling mound in 
Area 12 (DC 25).
Creatures. The two hollow bronze statues (animated 
armor) on the balcony animate and attack anyone that 
does not speak the password discedo before moving to 
the steps. 
AREA 10: FIRST TERRACE
This terrace abuts the southern side of the chasm. A low 
stone retaining wall lines its outer edge. A lush patch of 
vegetation rises above the low grasses and mosses that 
cover most of the terrace. Hard-packed earthen stairs 
to the north and east descend to the next terrace. Three 
bronze statues of satyrs, one playing pipes, one holding a 
lyre, and a third beating a drum, stand in niches carved 
into the cliff face.
The edible vegetation here has been picked over by 
the Fallen Children, but the rapid growth of the plants 
is evident, and there may be another harvest ready in 
a matter of days. Though there are Fallen Children on 
the terrace below, they are accustomed to the occasional 
problem with strange plants and the need for violence. 
If they hear combat, they assume some of their clansfolk 
are simply dealing with yet another problem. They don’t 
come to assist unless they hear cries for help.
Creatures. The three hollow bronze statues (animated 
armor) attack any creature that doesn’t speak the 
password discedo before moving to one of the staircases.
AREA 11: SECOND TERRACE
This terrace is larger than the first and holds more 
vegetation. The waterfall that pours down from the cliff 
impacts here, forming a rushing stream that feeds a large 
pond on the terrace’s northern end. Water spills over a 
low section in the retaining wall to a second pond on the 
terrace below. Earthen stairs to the west provide access to 
the lower terrace.
Four Fallen Children (thugs) are working here under 
the supervision of a cult fanatic and a druid. They attack 
anyone they don’t recognize. 
AREA 12: THIRD TERRACE, EASTERN SIDE
The eastern side of this terrace holds a large cluster of 
flowering plants. Trees, vines, and shrubs are ablaze in a 
riot of color, covered in blossoms of myriad shapes and 
sizes. Even from a distance, the heady fragrances are 
impossible to ignore.
The grove here holds a large variety of flowering 
plants. While the mixed fragrances of the blooms are 
powerful, none of them have any extraordinary effects. 
Should the PCs collect samples of various blossoms, they 
can sell the samples to a perfumery in Bourgund for 300 
gp. Live cuttings of the plants that can be transplanted 
would fetch them 1,500 gp.
Creature. A shambling mound lurks in the grove of 
flowering plants. This creature was once Mara, one of 
the Fallen Children. While exploring the outer complex, 
Mara broke open one of the display cases in Area 8. 
The vegetation inside exploded into growth, covering 
her. She fled into the oasis, quickly succumbing to the 
vegetation as it enveloped her. The rest of Mara’s clan 
took her for dead, but she revived in her current form. 
The shambling mound has dim memories of her past life. 
Though she doesn’t harm the Fallen Children, she makes 
them nervous, and they avoid getting too close to her. 
Nazaire has discovered that she still obeys his commands 
as long as they are simple. The creature attacks anyone 
that disturbs her grove, but she doesn’t pursue creatures 
that flee. If Nazaire calls her by name, she comes to him 
and obeys him as best as she is able. She fears Acraecea 
and avoids the qwyllion, if possible.

--- PAGE 73 ---
71
AREA 13: THIRD TERRACE, CENTRAL POND
Water spills from the terrace above to form a pool here. 
It then continues to flow down over a low section of the 
retaining wall and wind its way through the terrace below. 
The water is murkier than the pool above. Earthen stairs 
to the east and west provide access to the lowest terrace.
The vegetation here has been picked over, but about 
half of it has refreshed and is ready to harvest again. 
There is plenty of fresh food to be had here, though some 
of the vegetation is highly toxic. A successful DC 15 
Intelligence (Nature) or Wisdom (Survival) check finds 
food that is safe to eat. If a creature fails the check by 5 
or more, it finds plants that look safe but are 
actually poisonous. The creature must 
make a DC 14 Constitution saving 
throw. On a failure, it takes 14 (4d6) 
poison damage and is poisoned for 
1 hour. On a success, it takes half the 
damage and isn’t poisoned.
Creature. Acraecea, a qwyllion (see 
Tome of Beasts), typically lounges in the 
waters of this pool. Her corrupt presence 
fouls the waters. Acraecea is a wicked 
creature that has murdered many 
people in both Allain and Bourgund. 
Bounty hunters from both nations 
are actively seeking her to claim the 
hefty reward offered for her death. 
She tolerates the presence of Nazaire 
and his people only because she has 
struck a bargain with him. He has given her 
access to the Savage Oasis, a refuge from 
her pursuers, in exchange for her guarding 
the place against any interlopers once they 
leave for their pilgrimage. Her protection 
of the oasis would mean his people 
could safely return and benefit from 
another harvest after the next Mad 
Spring begins.
Acraecea detests this place and 
its abundant life and beauty. She 
especially hates the nymph statues, 
which remind her of what she was before her 
corruption. After the Fallen Children leave, 
she plans to pollute and corrupt this place 
as quickly as she can, unaware the oasis will 
perish after the Mad Spring ends whether or 
not she corrupts it. She is already plotting her 
betrayal of Nazaire. In time, she plans to go 
out to slay more victims and build a host 
of specters to unleash on the Fallen Children when next 
they return. In the meantime, she upholds her end of 
the bargain, attacking any outsiders that intrude upon 
the oasis. Acraecea fights until she is reduced to half her 
hit points or fewer, and then she flees, heading down to 
the lower terrace or to the east to rouse the shambling 
mound to distract the PCs. If the PCs are well‑prepared 
for an encounter with a single, high‑challenge creature 
such as Acraecea, consider adding one or more specters 
under her control. 
If it is clear the PCs are after her to claim the bounty 
from Allain or Bourgund, she attempts to escape and 
find a new place in the wastes to hole up until the heat 
dies down.

--- PAGE 74 ---
72
AREA 14: FOURTH TERRACE, WEST
This lowest level of the chasm has large patches of tall, 
thick vegetation covering much of the ground between 
here and the cliffs to the north. The stream pours over the 
low section of the third tier’s retaining wall to flow off into 
the trees and out of sight.
The lowest and largest tier of the Savage Oasis, this 
area holds the bulk of the oasis’s wild growth. The 
Fallen Children have removed most of the dangerous 
plants around the terrace’s edges, but more lurk within 
the thickets that grow north toward the base of the 
cliffs. There, the stream gathers in a small whirlpool 
as it plunges into a narrow crevice to continue on 
underground.
Creatures. A druid and a cult fanatic are overseeing 
four of their fellow Fallen Children (thugs), harvesting 
from the edge of the larger area of vegetation west of the 
stream. In combat, the druid and cult fanatic attempt to 
draw enemies into the smaller grove to the west where 
a pair of hammer hollies (see Appendix) grow. The 
two leaders are wearing the special charms that ward 
them from the plants in this area, and they don’t fear 
attack from the plants. Should both leaders fall first, 
the other four Fallen Children flee. The druid or cult 
fanatic flees or surrenders if it is the only member of 
the Fallen Children that remains and the PCs defeated 
the hammer hollies.
AREA 15: FOURTH TERRACE, EAST
There is very little space to walk on the eastern side of the 
terrace since the wild growth of the place encroaches on 
the grass and moss. The stream borders this portion to the 
west, flowing into the vegetation toward the north wall of 
the chasm. A narrow path stretches into the undergrowth 
toward a tall tree with silvery bark and long, spear-like 
leaves of deep green.
The Shrine Tree. The path leads to a small clearing 
where the Shrine Tree stands. This tree is the crown 
jewel of the magnificent flora here. The tallest tree in the 
area, the Shrine Tree is 8 feet across at its base and some 
25 feet high. The first branches spread away from the 
trunk about 15 feet up, nearly perpendicular to the trunk 
itself. The tree’s bark is smooth and silvery. The leaves 
of the tree average 1 foot long and look like dark-green 
spearheads. No flowers or fruit can be seen on the tree, 
but its base holds a hollow, 3 feet wide and 4 feet high, 
that opens into the heart of the tree. Dangling from the 
peak of the hollow is a single seed. It is 1 foot long and 
half as wide at its middle, tapering at both ends, and 
enclosed in a soft, velvety coat of sea green. 
The Shrine Tree grows one such seed every 20 years. 
If the seed is eaten, it serves as an antidote to any poison 
and a cure for any disease. The creature consuming the 
seed also has resistance to poison damage and advantage 
on saving throws against poison and disease for 1 year. If 
eaten by a creature that is neither diseased nor poisoned, 
it adds 10 years to that creature’s lifespan. The seed must 
be allowed to mature and fall from the tree for these 
benefits however. If it is plucked before then, a creature 
that consumes it only has advantage on saving throws 
against disease and poison for a month. Alternatively, an 
immature seed can be prepared with other ingredients to 
create 5 doses of restorative ointment, a process that takes 
1 week and 150 gp worth of additional materials. The 
Shrine Tree’s seed matures and falls from the tree 3 days 
after the PCs arrive.
Creature. Meditating in front of the hollow of the 
tree is the leader of the Fallen Children, Nazaire the 
Corrupted (see Appendix). He read the journals in 
Area 8 and is waiting for the seed to separate from the 
tree. Nazaire challenges any intruders to the oasis, and 
if they declare they have come for the seed of the Shrine 
Tree, he attacks, shouting to rally any of his allies nearby. 
Nazaire refuses to give up on this opportunity and fights 
to the death against any that try to take his prize. If 
Nazaire is defeated, the rest of the Fallen Children leave 
the Savage Oasis to the victors. 
Nazaire’s Allies. When engaged in combat, Nazaire 
calls to his allies for help. If still alive, allies in the 
surrounding areas come to his aid. Mara, the shambling 
mound in Area 12, is the first to answer the call and 
arrives in 1d4 rounds to defend Nazaire. The Fallen 
Children in Area 14 arrive in 2d4 rounds, but they flee if 
Nazaire is defeated. Acraecea remains hidden, observing 
the fight from a safe distance until the PCs are gone or 
Nazaire kills them. If they defeat Nazaire, she attempts to 
kill or drive them out while they are weakened, but she 
flees if reduced to 30 hit points or fewer. 
Concluding the Adventure
Once the enemies here have been killed or driven off, 
the PCs have the run of the place (though there still 
may be plenty of hazards to face in the Savage Oasis, 
per the Further Encounters sidebar). It is a veritable 
cornucopia, at least for the time being. Once the water 
from the highlands runs dry, the stream is no longer 
fed, and the ponds shrink and dry up, leaving nothing 
but muddy holes. When the water is gone, the abundant 
plant life quickly withers and dies, leaving seeds and 
spores in the earth that recreate the oasis anew during 
the next Mad Spring. The Shrine Tree remains, losing its 
leaves and hibernating as though through a long winter. 
It buds again when the Savage Oasis is revived, though it 
is decades before it produces another seed.

--- PAGE 75 ---
73
BENEATH THE WITCHWILLOW
This adventure takes place in the city of Reywald and on 
the edge of the nearby Arbonesse Forest (in the Grand 
Duchy of Dornig) but but can be adapted to any city in 
or near a large forest.
ADVENTURE BACKGROUND
The adventure centers on a murder that occurred in 
one of the duchies of Dornig. Lilli Amberthaud and 
Harper Elincourt, the heirs of two rival families, fell in 
love. Because of the bad blood between their families, 
they kept their affair secret until Lilli was betrothed 
to another. A few days after the announcement, Lilli 
went missing. After an extensive search, the affair came 
to light, and Harper was accused of killing her out of 
anger or jealousy. Though no body was ever found and 
he staunchly maintained his innocence, Harper was 
imprisoned for the crime and remains in jail. 
However, the PCs have discovered something that may 
shed new light on Lilli’s disappearance: a children’s 
book called Beneath the Witchwillow… with a secret 
hidden within. 
THE BOOK
The book is a children’s story, bound in faded blue 
leather with gold embossing and woodcut illustrations. It 
bears a bookplate inside the front cover that proclaims, 
“From the Library of Lilli Amberthaud.” 
The fairytale tells of a young girl who lived in a terribly 
abusive household: her father drank too much, her 
mother was often absent, and the girl suffered at both 
of their hands when they were unhappy, which was 
most of the time. On the night of her twelfth birthday, 
after a fierce beating from her father, the girl’s fairy 
godmother appears and tells her there’s a way out of 
her terrible situation. All she needs to do is take a lock 
of hair from each of her parents and bring them to the 
old witchwillow in the woods where she will be taken 
to the land of the fairies to live happily ever after. The 
girl does as she’s asked, and when she meets her fairy 
godmother beneath the witchwillow, the fey woman 
opens a doorway in the trunk of the tree, and the two 
step through to a world beyond. 
The back cover of the book is peeling away from the 
interior. It seems to have been removed and then rather 
poorly repaired. A strange metal disk, paper thin and 
covered with runes, hides between the two layers along 
with a letter:
My Dearest Harper,
I’m sure you’ve heard by now what my parents wish 
for me. They refuse to listen to reason, but I cannot 
tell them the truth of why I do not wish to marry Lord 
Ransible. I must get away. 
Meet me beneath the witchwillow north of my estate 
in two nights as the moon is at its highest. Bring this 
favor, and together we will escape our parents’ petty 
squabbles and finally be together. 
Yours Forever,
Lilli
THE TRUTH
When Lilli Amberthaud was told of her arranged 
betrothal, she tried to appeal to her parents to cancel 
the wedding. Yllara and Koriandril Amberthaud, 
however, thought they knew what was best for their 
daughter and refused. 
Lilli fled to the woods in despair. The grove north 
of her family’s estate had long been a place of comfort 
to her, and after a time, she found herself beneath the 
witchwillow. There Lilli was discovered by a companion 
of Yffreyja, a powerful fey, and was invited into the 
witchwillow demesne to converse with her. Lilli was 
startled at first but remembered the story she’d read as 
a child and thought there must be some truth in it. She 
appealed to Yffreyja, begging for assistance. Yffreyja 
agreed and sent Lilli on her way with two keys—metal 
disks, thin as a whisper, that would open the gateway to 
the Summer Lands and allow Lilli and Harper to escape 
through the witchwillow on the night of the full moon. 
Lilli returned home, wrote the letter to Harper, and 
hid it within her copy of the tale. The next day, she 
sent it off with a courier to the Elincourt house, but the 
courier never made it to his destination. He was waylaid 
by bandits, killed, and hidden within the undergrowth. 
The bandits took everything he carried, even the book. 
For 5th-Level Characters

--- PAGE 76 ---
74

--- PAGE 77 ---
75
Two nights later, Lilli waited for Harper beneath the 
witchwillow. As time passed, the moon climbed higher 
in the sky, but Harper did not arrive. Distraught that 
her beloved had abandoned her, Lilli fled within the 
witchwillow to the world waiting beyond. There she’s 
been in the company of Yffreyja in the tower at the heart 
of the demesne. 
Adventure Hooks
There are a number of ways to introduce the adventure 
to your PCs. If you are weaving this adventure into an 
existing campaign, seed rumors of the murder into your 
local flavor ahead of time. Feel free to make it a recent 
murder or something that happened anywhere from 
several weeks to a few years in the past.
•	 Finding the Book. The book is a key hook for the 
quest, but where your PCs discover it is up to you. 
Whether they discover it in a bookstore, on a shelf in 
an abandoned house, or on the very bandits that stole 
it in the first place, they can easily find the hidden 
letter and disk at the back. 
•	 A Personal Plea. If your players need a stronger call to 
action, Harper’s parents are willing to pay a hefty sum 
to anyone who can prove their son’s innocence. It’s 
easy enough to hear of the reward being offered while 
at a tavern. 
Once the PCs have taken the hook, they should travel 
to Dornig to investigate. They can speak to the Elincourts, 
the Amberthauds, and Harper himself in order to glean 
more information, or they might choose to immediately 
search for the witchwillow mentioned in the letter.
There are multiple opportunities for side quests and 
encounters as your PCs make their way to Dornig. Feel 
free to throw in your own random encounters as needed 
for those parties who need a little more action. 
Part 1: Reywald
The reception the PCs receive when arriving in Reywald 
depends on two main factors: on whether or not they’ve 
been in Dornig before and made a name for themselves 
and on the racial composition of the party. The more 
elves, elfmarked, and humans in the party, the more 
favorably the citizens of Reywald will treat them. 
Conversely, if the PCs are mostly lesser or bestial races, 
they’ll likely get more side-eye from the locals. Unless 
they’ve created a terrible reputation however, these 
elements won’t block their investigation, but it might 
require a bit more elbow grease (and gold passing hands) 
for them to find their way.
Finding the Elincourts and/or Amberthauds is not a 
difficult task. Asking in any of the town’s taverns will get 
them the directions they need. 
THE ELINCOURT TOWNHOUSE
The Elincourts live in a townhouse in the Easternholds 
of Reywald. Harper is an only child, and his parents, 
Ollana and Maramir are staunchly convinced of his 
innocence. They welcome the PCs into their home out of 
hospitality and will quickly warm to them when they hear 
the PCs intend to investigate Lilli’s disappearance. They 
not‑so‑subtly imply that the only reason Harper is in jail 
is because the Amberthauds have influence in the city and 
that Lilli likely ran off and that they are simply looking 
for someone to blame. It’s obvious the animosity between 
the families runs deep, even before Lilli went missing. 
The Elincourts, though adamant about Harper’s 
innocence, do not accept the thought that their son may 
have been in a relationship with Lilli. If pressed on the 
matter, they even go so far as to suggest it’s a plot by 
the Amberthauds to further incriminate him—jealous 
lovers are, after all, prime murder suspects—and beg the 
PCs not to go to the authorities with the information. 
They instead ask the PCs to do more investigating on 
their own and to track down Lilli or more evidence that 
Harper wasn’t at fault. If the PCs leave on good terms, 
the Elincourts offer a letter of introduction to Karlora 
Everrest, Captain of the Guard, explaining they’ve been 
hired by the Elincourts to investigate the supposed crime 
and permitting the PCs access to Harper for questioning.
Lady Ollana Elincourt: Neutral good elfmarked (age 
56). Ollana Elincourt is a lovely elfmarked whose fair 
face is lined with grief, making her look older than she 
is. Her blond hair is streaked with silver at the temples, 
and the entire time she is speaking to the PCs, her eyes 
flick between them as if searching for something. She is a 
stereotypical doting mother who believes the best of her 
son and cannot imagine him harming anyone. She knows 
nothing about the situation other than the certainty that 
Harper is innocent. She is soft spoken and kind and only 
shows any anger when speaking of the Amberthauds.
STATUS IN MIDGARD
If you are using Status (see Midgard Worldbook) 
and the PCs find the missing girl, Lilli, and remain in 
Captain Karlora’s good graces, the PCs gain +1 to 
their Status with the residents of Reywald (except 
with the Amberthauds). If they sour their relationship 
with Captain Karlora, no matter the outcome with 
Lilli and Harper, they suffer a −1 to their Status with 
the residents of Reywald. These modifiers stack with 
similar Status modifiers the PCs may possess.

--- PAGE 78 ---
76
Lord Maramir Elincourt: Neutral good human (age 
59). Maramir Elincourt is a human with salt-and-pepper 
hair, dark skin, a straight nose, high cheekbones, and 
a strong chin. He carries himself in a way that suggests 
he’s seen battle, and it wouldn’t be surprising if he 
knows how to use the sword on his hip. His knuckles 
are scarred, and there’s the silvery shadow of an old 
wound on his right jaw, just under his ear. He had his 
own share of adventuring as a young man, only settling 
down in Reywald once he met (and fell in love with) 
Ollana. Her reserve is the only thing keeping him from 
charging off and challenging Koriandril Amberthaud to 
hand‑to‑hand combat. 
THE AMBERTHAUD ESTATE
The Amberthauds reside in a manor on a sprawling 
estate outside the city limits, near the borders of the 
Arbonesse. They are considerably richer than the 
Elincourts and are held in higher esteem, and they are 
therefore markedly more influential. 
If the PCs go to the Amberthaud estate, Koriandril 
and Yllara Amberthaud initially welcome the group, 
thinking they have more information to further damn 
Harper. However, as soon as the PCs mention a 
possibility of Lilli being alive, Lilli’s parents will thank 
them and ask them to leave, stubbornly insisting their 
daughter is dead and that Harper killed her and that’s 
that. No amount of evidence, short of Lilli’s presence, 
will convince them otherwise. In fact, if pressed too far 
or if the PCs mention a potential affair between Harper 
and Lilli, the Amberthauds become angry, accuse the 
PCs of working for the Elincourts to discredit the 
Amberthauds and get Harper out of prison, and kick 
them out. If the PCs visited the Elincourts first, the 
Amberthauds have already heard of the visit, further 
cementing their misconceptions. 
Lenora Amberthaud, however, listens in on the PCs’ 
conversation with her parents from behind a door. When 
Yllara and Koriandril excuse themselves, Lenora will 
waylay the PCs on their way out. She begs the PCs to 
find her sister. Lenora did not know about Lilli’s affair 
with Harper, though she long suspected and suggests the 
PCs speak to the Elincourts if they’ve not already visited 
them. She knows the location of the witchwillow as she 
and her sister used to play in that area of the woods often 
as young girls (much to their parents’ distress) and can 
mark it on the PCs’ map. If the PCs have mentioned 
wanting to speak with Harper, she will present them 
with a letter of introduction to Captain Karlora Everrest, 
stating they are working for her family… though Lenora 
has forged her mother’s signature, and she tells the PCs 
not to linger near the jail longer than necessary as the 
deception may not hold up to scrutiny for too long. 
Baroness Yllara Amberthaud: Neutral evil elf (age 212). 
Yllara Amberthaud is every inch the stereotypical haughty 
elven noble. With blond hair that falls in ringlets, alabaster 
skin, and a mouth that’s pressed in a nearly constant line 
of disapproval, she certainly makes an impression. For 
Yllara, the idea that her daughter could have had an affair 
with Harper, or that she ran off on her own, is something 
she cannot fathom—it’s too scandalous and wounds the 
pride of their family too deeply. 
Baron Koriandril Amberthaud: Neutral elf (age 130). 
Koriandril Amberthaud is wide-shouldered but otherwise 
lithe of figure with straight blond hair and dark eyes 
that are nearly black. His eyes soften, however, when he 
speaks of his daughter, and his resolve about Lilli’s fate is 
not quite as solid as his wife’s, but the doubts are quickly 
buried with a glance from Yllara or the thought that his 
precious daughter may not have loved them as much as 
he’d hoped. 
Lenora Amberthaud: Neutral good elf (age 18). Lenora 
Amberthaud is young with pink cheeks and her father’s 
straight blond hair. She has always held out hope that her 
sister was alive somewhere and is frustrated to the point of 
exhaustion with her parents’ stubborn refusal to consider 
the possibility. It’s obvious by the way she speaks that 
she and her sister were close, and she misses Lilli dearly. 
Forging the letter for the PCs is a new act of rebellion for 
her, and she seems surprised that it was so easy. 
THE PRISON
The Reywald prison is a surprisingly small building made 
of stone, with a large front room and eight small cells 
behind a sturdy door. Upstairs are a set of offices in the 
front and temporary barracks with bunks for any of the 
watch in need of a place to sleep between shifts. When the 
PCs arrive at the prison, no matter what time of day or 
night, there are six guards and the guard captain (veteran) 
within the building: Lucian D’or (human) at the front 
desk, Benn Barlin (dwarf) and Djoran Dunn (elfmarked) 
in the back area near the cells, Lilah Talinan (elf) and 
Ungol Wrathbone (bearfolk) asleep in the barracks, and 
Captain Karlora Everrest (elf) in her office upstairs. 
The locks all require a DC 17 Dexterity (thieves’ tools) 
check to pick. 
Captain Karlora Everrest: Lawful good elf (age 150). 
Captain Karlora is a formidable figure. Though she has 
the typical slender elvish build, there’s something in her 
green eyes that tells you she brooks no nonsense. She 
is reluctant to discuss any aspects of the Amberthaud 
case with the PCs since they are strangers, but she 
harbors doubt at Harper’s guilt while feeling pressured 
to keep him imprisoned due to his family’s stature. On a 
successful DC 18 Wisdom (Insight) check, the PCs can 
tell she is a woman bound by duty and who is frustrated 
at their inability to crack the case.

--- PAGE 79 ---
77
If the PCs wish to speak with Harper, they must 
convince Captain Karlora they’re worth her time. To do 
so, they must succeed on a DC 20 Charisma (Persuasion) 
check, but there are several conditions that adjust the DC: 
•	 If the PCs have secured a letter of introduction from 
the Elincourts and/or Amberthauds (through Lenora), 
the DC is reduced by 2 for each letter in hand. 
•	 If the PC doing the persuading is either lawful good or 
an elf, the DC is lowered by 1 for each quality. 
•	 If they appeal to Karlora’s sense of right and law, the 
DC is reduced by 3. 
•	 If the PCs attempt to bribe her, the DC increases by 5. 
If the PCs present the forged Amberthaud letter to the 
captain, she realizes it’s a fake after 24 hours, and the 
guards will arrest the PCs on sight. 
Harper Elincourt: Lawful good elfmarked (age 24). 
Harper Elincourt is a handsome elfmarked with his 
father’s facial structure and his mother’s fair skin, blond 
hair, and slightly pointed ears. He has spent his time 
since Lilli’s disappearance in prison, and it is apparent 
in the circles under his eyes and his thin frame. When 
speaking with the PCs, his mood fluctuates from anger 
to despair. He insists he’s innocent, rails against the 
Amberthauds (but speaks kindly of Lenora, Lilli’s sister), 
and wishes nothing more than to be free, so he can find 
his beloved—or the one who took her life. 
Harper begs the PCs to find Lilli or track down the 
person responsible for her disappearance. He wishes he 
could accompany them, and he tells them everything he 
can: about their secret affair, about how much he wished 
to run away with her, about his anger at her parents for 
forcing her into a betrothal with someone she’d never 
even met. He knows the location of the witchwillow and 
can mark it on the PCs’ map. 
If the PCs inform Harper about the note in the 
book, he redoubles his petition and will promise them 
anything to help find Lilli: gold, influence, whatever he 
has is theirs. He paces the cell in frustration, begging the 
guards to release him and imploring the PCs to show the 
letter to Captain Karlora, convinced she’ll see her error 
and set him free (hint: she won’t). 
If the PCs break Harper out of jail, he asks to 
accompany them. If the PCs refuse to allow him to go 
with them, he will claim he’s finding somewhere to lay 
low. However, if the PCs told him about the witchwillow, 
he will go straight there instead; otherwise, he will find 
an alleyway to hide out in, too worried to go home 
and risk his parents but unwilling to leave the city. If 
he arrives at the witchwillow before the PCs, he will 
investigate the area and hide nearby and wait.
PART 2: THE WOODS
The woods north of the Amberthaud estate are thick 
and imposing. Not quite part of the Arbonesse, they 
are nonetheless full of strange and marvelous things. 
Wagon trails struggle to maintain their hold against the 
encroaching greenery. If the PCs know the location of 
the witchwillow (given to them by Harper or Lenora), 
the tree is relatively easy to find. If they do not have the 
location marked on their map, they must succeed on a 
DC 14 Intelligence (Survival) check to find the tree. On 
a fail, they lose their way and stumble across a cave with 
a pair of owlbears nesting, not far from the tree. The PCs 
find the tree after the owlbear encounter is resolved. 
The witchwillow is not the tallest tree within the forest, 
but it is still easy to spot—its pale trunk and widespread 
branches with silver-green leaves make it stand out 
against the darker oak, elm, and other trees around it. 
A sprawling tree stands before you with smooth, pale 
bark and thin silver-green leaves. The trunk of the tree is 
bigger around than your arms are wide, and the umbrella 
of branches spans nearly 60 feet from one end to the 
other. When the wind blows through the twisted, arching 
branches, it sounds as if a thousand voices whisper, 
sending a shiver down your spine.
When the PC carrying the disk comes within 5 feet of 
the witchwillow, the bark “cracks” apart, and a faintly 
glowing portal opens within the trunk. The portal is 
10 feet tall and 5 feet wide. A creature can use 5 feet of 
movement to pass through the portal. When the creature 
carrying the disk passes through the portal, the portal 
closes at the end of the round. Stepping through the 
portal causes the creature to enter the pocket dimension 
of the witchwillow demesne. 
OWLBEAR ENCOUNTER
The owlbears have a nest with three eggs within the 
cave, and they fiercely defend them. The male owlbear 
stays within the cave near the nest while the female 
prowls the area. If the PCs make it into the cave 
without drawing the female’s attention, she returns as 
soon as combat begins. Both the male and the female 
will fight to the death.

--- PAGE 80 ---
78
PART 3: INSIDE THE WITCHWILLOW
The pocket dimension within the Witchwillow is a 
personal demesne created by a powerful fey, Yffreyja. She 
lived for centuries within this beautiful slice of her own 
creation, entertaining guests within her breathtaking 
tower, dancing and dining with elves and other fey. But 
within the past century or so, the Shadow Realm has 
been pressing in, causing the demesne to decay and slip 
away. Her visitors stopped coming, and the creatures 
that dwelled here have fled with the exception of Ellilee, 
a violet fey drake. Yffreyja fears for her very existence, 
terrified of sliding into Shadow herself, and only Lilli’s 
shining presence—her pure heart and unconditional 
love for Harper—gives Yffreyja the power to keep the 
darkness at bay. 
As you pass through the witchwillow, you emerge on a 
low, grassy hill. The sky here is an orange-pink around the 
ridge of the horizon, as if in the midst of sunset, fading 
toward purple and then dark blue until directly above is 
a circle of night seemingly tacked in place by a shining 
silver full moon. Below, a sprawling hedge maze fills the 
hollow. Impenetrably dense, deep green, and impeccably 
manicured, the hedges twist and bend in a multitude of 
dizzying pathways. In the exact center of the hedge maze 
stands a tower. Thirteen stories tall, the stone spire is an 
impressive sight. Though it is old and crumbling, it is 
nonetheless awe-inspiring… perhaps made even more so 
by the fact that, about halfway up, one entire floor seems 
to be missing, the walls broken away, and you can see the 
pink of the sky on the other side, yet the tower somehow 
remains standing. 
The portal in the demesne opens and closes in a 
matching witchwillow tree on a hilltop above the hedge 
maze. Ellilee, the fey drake (see Creature Codex), waits in 
the branches of the tree and invisibly follows the PCs as 
they work their way through the maze. If any of the PCs 
are of elven heritage or wear any sparkly or fancy jewelry 
or equipment, Ellilee fixates on them in particular. She is 
the companion to Yffreyja, who Ellilee refers to as “Her 
Lady,” and is the descendent of a long line of fey drakes 
that have lived in the witchwillow demesne for centuries.
If Harper is with the PCs, she will reveal herself 
immediately and aid the party as much as she can. (She 
knows the answers to the puzzles, for instance, but she 
stays out of any combat.) If the party is composed of 
all good-aligned PCs, Ellilee will reveal herself to them 
as they arrive at the first puzzle and will aid them if 
they give her sweets or other baubles. Otherwise, she is 
content to watch them struggle, amused by their blunders 
(and potentially even tripping them up on purpose, like 
shoving them onto a trapped paver in Puzzle 1). If the 
PCs befriend her, she will talk cryptically of “Her Lady” in 
the tower and how kind she is and how Ellilee hopes the 
PCs can help her against the coming darkness. 
THE MAZE
A sprawling hedge maze surrounds the broken tower, 
which is always visible from anywhere within the maze. 
With magic or some mundane trick of perspective, the 
tower always appears to be the same distance away, no 
matter where in the maze the PCs stand. 
The maze itself is woven through with illusion magic. 
Anyone who attempts to bypass the maze finds themself 
at a loss: 
•	 If the PCs attempt to fly over the maze directly to the 
tower, they find that they get no closer no matter how 
long they travel; teleportation magic fails; any map 
drawn from outside the maze is no longer accurate 
once they enter; and so on. 
•	 If the PCs attempt to cut through the hedges, they find 
they make no progress, and the attacker must make 
a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the 
attacker takes 1d6 slashing damage as the hedge lashes 
out with a thorny vine to defend itself. 
There are two sections to the maze, each ending in a 
clearing containing a puzzle. In order to arrive at the 
central tower, the PCs must successfully solve both 
puzzles. To find their way to the first clearing, the PCs 
must succeed on a DC 10 Intelligence (Survival) check 
to navigate the first portion of the twisting maze. On 
a failure, they spend 2 hours wandering through the 
labyrinth until they finally come to the clearing.
Puzzle 1: Along the Twisting Way. The clearing at the 
end of the first segment is 35 feet by 35 feet and paved 
with square marble flagstones in a variety of colors: black, 
white, green, red, orange, blue, and pink pavers create a 
dizzying spiral pattern. In the center of the clearing is a 
stone archway that shimmers with arcane energy. 
THE DISK
The disk hidden within the book is a key that triggers 
the portal in the witchwillow. If your PCs have lost 
it, sold it, or otherwise find themselves at the tree 
without it, you can force them to recover it before 
they can enter or, in the interest of moving the 
adventure forward, place Ellilee the fey drake in the 
branches of the tree. She invisibly observes the PCs 
as they investigate the area and opens the portal for 
them after some initial hesitation. If Harper is with the 
PCs, she recognizes him from Lilli’s tales and reveals 
herself, treating Harper as a friend, and opens the 
portal immediately.

--- PAGE 81 ---
79
1
4
5
2
3
Only the pink stones are safe to walk upon. If the PCs 
step on any other color paver (including if they walk 
toward the archway without specifying what paver they’re 
stepping on), they take 1d4 damage of a type according to 
the paver’s color: necrotic (black), radiant (white), force 
(green), fire (red), acid (orange), and cold (blue). 
Once they reach the center archway, they simply 
step through and appear in the interior section of the 
maze. The tower appears larger here, though the same 
restrictions on travel are in place as before. A successful 
DC 12 Intelligence (Survival) check is necessary to 
navigate to the next puzzle, or they spend 4 hours 
wandering before finding their way to the next clearing. 
Puzzle 2: A Foe of Your Own Choosing. The second 
clearing is larger than the first—the hedges here open 
to a 50-foot-square clearing. Soft green grass covers the 
ground. Again, a stone archway stands in the center, 
though this one lacks the shimmering arcane energy. 
In front of the archway, a stone statue of a woman 
kneels with her head bowed in supplication and her 
hands cupped before her. Four marble plinths surround 
her, two on each side. On each plinth is a delicate stand 
made of silver filagree, and in each stand is a different 
gemstone: a blue sapphire, a yellow diamond, a red 
corundum, and a brilliant green emerald. They are 
modified elemental gems. 
To activate the archway, the PCs must choose a gem 
and place it in the outstretched hands of the statue. 
The statue then closes her hands around the gemstone, 
stands, and changes into an elemental according to 
the gemstone chosen: air elemental (blue sapphire), 
earth elemental (yellow diamond), fire elemental 
(red corundum), or water elemental (emerald). The 
elemental immediately attacks the party. Once the 
elemental is defeated, the other gemstones vanish, and 
the archway activates. Stepping through the archway 
takes the PCs to the base of the broken tower.
THE BROKEN TOWER
Thirteen stories tall, the tower is a marvel of engineering 
and fey magic. Lilli Amberthaude resides in the topmost 
chamber with Yffreyja, which can only be reached by 
ascending the tower room by room. 
A winding pathway leads up a small hillock to the 
doorway of the tower. A heavy, solid wooden door 
bound with brass, the entryway to the tower has no 
handle, only a knocker in the center. If the PCs knock, 
the door swings open soundlessly. 
AREA 1: FOYER/ENTRY HALL
The front door of the tower opens into a foyer roughly 
20 feet wide. Some empty coat racks and a dusty side 
table are the only items here. On the far side of the foyer 
are two wooden double doors that open into the entry 
hall. A staircase rises up ahead of them before stopping 
at a landing and splitting to rise to the left and the right 
to Area 2. A crumbling statue stands in an alcove on 
the landing: the likeness is of Yffreyja with Ellilee on 
her shoulder. Time has worn away much of the fey 
woman’s features, and the tips of her long ears have 
broken away, which can be found in the rubble near the 
base of the statue with a successful DC 14 Intelligence 
(Investigation) check. 
AREA 2: SITTING ROOM
The sitting room’s stone floor is covered with numerous 
throw rugs. The rugs look as if they were once plush and 
beautiful, but they are now threadbare and dusty. Several 
groupings of decrepit couches and chairs sit against 
the far wall, arranged for quiet conversation. A spiral 
staircase in the center of the room leads up to Area 3.

--- PAGE 82 ---
80
13
12
11
10
6
7
8
9
AREA 3: GUEST ROOMS
The staircase opens into a small foyer with a tapestry 
on the far wall. The tapestry depicts a hunt of some sort 
with twelve figures upon horses in a forest glen. Upon 
closer inspection, each “horse” has the head, front legs, 
and wings of an eagle. A successful DC 12 Intelligence 
(Arcana or Nature) check allows the PCs to recognize 
them as hippogriffs. The figures upon the hippogriffs 
are graceful and crowned with flowers and greenery and 
have pointed ears longer than any elf’s the PCs have seen. 
There are two doors in this foyer, one to the left and 
one to the right. They both open into small bedrooms 
with queen-sized four-posters, but the linens are moth 
eaten and the mattresses musty. 
The spiral staircase continues up to Area 4. 
AREA 4: ENCHANTING PARLOR
The staircase opens into another foyer, again with 
wooden doors to the left and the right. Both open into 
small rooms with their far walls crumbling and broken 
away, revealing a third room at the back of the level. 
Here, a tall worktable stands against the far wall, made 
of heavy wood, and a chunk of the wall is missing 
completely as if it had been scooped away with a giant 
spoon. Upon inspection, the PCs see the stone is not 
shattered but instead seems almost cut. Scattered on 
the floor and worktable are shards of glass, the broken 
remains of bottles and phials, as well as dried and 
moldering herbs, mushrooms, flowers, and mosses. 
This was Yffreyja’s first realization that something 
was amiss in her realm: she was crafting a potion when 
things went inexplicably wrong, and the potion she 
was creating exploded in her hands, evaporating a 
portion of the wall. 
The spiral staircase continues up to Area 5. 
AREA 5: DESTROYED ROOMS
This level is… mostly missing. The exterior 
wall stands only a 1-1/2 feet tall, and the rest 
of it is open to the elements. A large portion 
of the floor on the southeast side has fallen 
into the room below, and there are holes in 
the ceiling to the room above. Most of a large 
bed lies under the hole, shattered from the fall 
from above, as well as a broken dresser and chair. A 
rope of climbing lies coiled beneath the largest hole in the 
ceiling. There is no staircase or other obvious means of 
accessing Area 6. 
Any character who weighs more than 150 pounds 
must make a DC 14 Dexterity check within this room 
when they move faster than half speed. On a fail, the 
floor collapses beneath them, and they fall through to 
the room below, taking 2d6 bludgeoning damage. 
The rope of climbing leads up into Area 6. 
AREA 6: GUEST ROOM
The floor here opens into the space between two rooms, 
what was once a bedroom and a sitting room. Most of 
the furniture lies broken in the room below. A door 
in the upper room leads into a foyer with a thick, 
colorful rug of smothering at the base of the stairs and 
several bookshelves against the right-hand wall. The 
bookshelves hold moldering storybooks, written in 
Sylvan. A successful DC 14 Wisdom (Perception) check 
allows the PCs to realize the rug is not threadbare like 
the others in the tower but appears to be in pristine 
condition. When the PCs touch the rug of smothering, it 
animates and attacks. 
The staircase leads up to Area 7.

--- PAGE 83 ---
81
AREA 7: CORRUPTED GARDEN
The staircase from Area 6 opens into a large, round 
room with four stone columns positioned at each of the 
cardinal directions. To the right, a wooden door opens 
onto a sprawling stone balcony filled with terraced 
planters, potted trees, and other greenery. Flowers of 
all shapes and colors bloom beneath the twilit sky, and 
the air is filled with a sweet, entrancing scent. The plants 
seem wild and untended. 
On the far side of the balcony, a veritable waterfall of 
glowing blue fungus sprouts from the low wall. This used 
to be a lush and well-manicured garden, but the press 
of the Shadow Realm caused it to shift and change—a 
successful DC 16 Intelligence (Nature) check allows the 
PCs to recognize that each and every plant and fungus 
on this terrace is either highly poisonous or carnivorous 
(though they’re only a danger to bugs or other small 
creatures). 
A bloom hydra (see Tome of Beasts 2) has taken up 
residence in the garden, hiding in the shadows among 
the untended planters. It lies in wait until a creature 
comes within reach. It will not enter the tower though, 
so it will not give chase to fleeing creatures. However, it 
will climb the outside of the tower to continue harrying 
creatures venturing out onto the open terraces of Area 
9 and Area 11 and even attack into the broken space of 
Area 5.
Another stairway continues up to Area 8. 
AREA 8: STORAGE ROOMS/TREASURY
The layout of this floor is complicated: the two circles 
are inaccessible from one another. The upper circle is 
accessible via the staircase up from Area 7 and down 
from Area 9. From this vantage point, there seems to 
be nothing on this level except the enclosed staircase. A 
successful DC 15 Intelligence (Investigation) check or 
DC 18 Wisdom (Perception) check reveals a secret door 
just at the top of the staircase from Area 7. To open the 
door, the PCs must press a stone in the wall beside it, 
tripping the mechanism. Inside are several chests along 
with two sets of animated armor, one in each corner, 
that attack when the first PC enters the room. The 
treasure within the room consists of 485 gp, 1,204 sp, 
3,348 cp, three bags of gems worth 50 gp each, a vial of 
dust of disappearance, a set of pipes of haunting, and an 
efficient quiver. 
To access the lower crescent room, it is necessary to go 
up to Area 9 and then down the ladder into the storage 
rooms there. Within these rooms are boxes filled with 
supplies: dry goods for cooking, bolts of cloth, bottles of 
wine, tins of tea and coffee and sugar, and other various 
sundries. Some of the crates have been opened, others 
are still tightly sealed, though they’re all covered in a 
thick layer of dust.
AREA 9: RECEIVING HALL
Yffreyja loved hosting lavish parties, and this receiving 
hall was where the guests would arrive, enjoy drinks and 
hors d’oeuvres, and await the invitation to the ballroom 
two floors above. Once-brilliant cloth-of-gold curtains 
hang on either side of a door to the balcony: one curtain 
hides a narrow door that opens to the ladder down to the 
storage rooms on Area 8, the other hides shelving filled 
with wine glasses and china. 
The staircase leads up to Area 10. 
AREA 10: WAITING ROOM
The staircase opens into a round room with no obvious 
exits. The room is empty, save for an ornate but 
threadbare carpet on the stone floor. A low, empty dais 
rises in a nook on the other side of the room. Within 
the nook is a teleportation circle: a successful DC 12 
Intelligence (Investigation) check or DC 14 Wisdom 
(Perception) check allows the PC to notice arcane 
symbols etched in the stone of the dais. When a PC 
steps onto the dais, they disappear from the room and 
reappear on the matching dais in Area 11. (If a creature 
steps onto the dais while a creature is on the dais in Area 
11, the creature from Area 10 is teleported and then 
both creatures are knocked 5 feet off the dais into an 
unoccupied space and take 1d6 force damage.) 
AREA 11: BALLROOM/LIBRARY/ANTEROOM
A creature teleporting from Area 10 arrives on the dais 
in the ballroom in Area 11. The floor here is of polished 
white marble with golden veins (again under a layer of 
dust), and a glittering gold-and-crystal chandelier hangs 
dark above the room. The door to the right opens to an 
empty room with doors that open onto the balcony; the 
door to the left opens to an empty room with mirrors 
lining the outer wall. The wide balcony wraps the entirety 
of the tower and provides a stunning view of the maze 
and the wilds beyond. From this angle, the PCs can see 
a strange, undulating darkness just on the edge of the 
horizon, encircling the entire demesne. 
A circular staircase in the center rises up to Area 12. 
AREA 12: NOOKS
This floor is small, and each wall holds a nook with a 
curtain hanging behind a bench large enough for two 
people. One can easily imagine couples canoodling in 
these nooks over glasses of wine. 
The circular staircase continues up to Area 13.

--- PAGE 84 ---
82
AREA 13: THE LIBRARY 
(LILLI AND THE FADING FEY)
A trapdoor opens to the top level of the tower: 
a gorgeous, well-appointed library. Ancient yet 
well‑cared‑for tomes line the floor-to-ceiling shelves. 
A fireplace 6 feet tall sits on the opposite side of the 
room with a fire crackling within. Two wingback chairs 
of purple brocade sit angled slightly toward each other 
with a mahogany end table between them and their 
backs to the fire. A tea set sits on the end table with 
two cups plus a number of cups equal to the number of 
members in the party. It is the only room in the tower 
not covered in dust and decay. In one chair sits Lilli 
Amberthaud, and in the other sits Yffreyja. 
A tall, slender woman, Yffreyja has an otherworldly 
look to her. Her cheekbones are high and sharp, and her 
eyes are a pale violet. Her golden hair is twisted up in an 
elaborate braid, and a diadem adorns her brow. Her long 
ears sweep up and back, almost touching at the back of 
her head, and delicate jeweled earrings dangle from the 
lobes. She wears a deep-green gown with pointed sleeves 
and embroidery that echoes the twisting and winding of 
vines and branches. 
Yffreyja, the Shining Swallowtail: Neutral fey (age 
423). Yffreyja is expecting the PCs—this is her demesne 
after all. She welcomes them to her home and is kind, 
though she is occasionally forgetful and mercurial as 
her concentration slips, and the PCs see her personality 
fraying around the edges. So much of her concentration 
is used to maintain the integrity of her demesne that she 
sometimes misses parts of the conversation. 
Yffreyja is desperate to keep Lilli with her, 
though she won’t go so far as to hold the woman 
against her will. She attempts to convince Lilli to 
remain or suggest the adventurers should return 
to the jail and slaughter everyone in order to 
free Harper as she has no qualms about breaking 
mortal laws. 
Yffreyja cannot leave her demesne as she’s put 
so much of herself into maintaining her hold 
against the darkness that she would quickly 
fade and perish outside of its boundaries. 
Lilli Amberthaud: Neutral good elf (age 
21). Lilli Amberthaud is a young elf with a 
mass of curly blond hair, bright blue eyes, 
and a sparkling smile. She wears a gown 
of yellow and white and a pendant 
shaped like a lily of the valley set with 
seed pearls. 
Lilli met Yffreyja while wandering 
the forest at the edge of her estate. 
Distraught over her parents’ decision to 
betroth her to another against her will, 
Lilli sat beneath the witchwillow and sobbed. Ellilee sat 
in the branches above her and watched curiously, and 
once Lilli had gone, Ellilee entered the witchwillow and 
relayed what they had seen to Yffreyja. Sensing some 
purity in Lilli’s grief, Yffreyja had Ellilee extend an 
invitation to Lilli the next time the young elven woman 
visited the witchwillow. Lilli was hesitant at first but was 
desperate enough to cling to any hope, and she visited 
Yffreyja within her demesne. Enthralled by Yffreyja’s 
beauty and bearing, Lilli poured her heart out to the fey 
over tea, and after several visits, the two became friends. 
When Yffreyja offered her the opportunity to escape 
to the witchwillow demesne with Harper, she took the 
chance happily.

--- PAGE 85 ---
83
When the PCs arrive, Lilli does not know what 
happened to Harper and thinks he must have forsaken 
her. If she is told what really happened, she wishes to 
return to her love, but she knows that if she leaves the 
witchwillow, Yffreyja’s power will fade quickly. If Harper 
is with the PCs, the two lovers have a tearful reunion. 
Concluding the Adventure
There are several ways the adventure can end, 
depending on the choices the PCs have made. 
IF THE PCS FREED HARPER
If the PCs broke Harper out of jail and allowed him 
to accompany them, there’s not much more they are 
required to do in the witchwillow demesne. Harper and 
Lilli remain in the tower with Yffreyja, and the three 
are happy in their shared realm. Over time, the tower 
regains some of its former glory. Yffreyja allows the 
party to keep one of the disks and says they are more 
than welcome within her demesne whenever they wish. 
If the PCs broke Harper out of jail but left him in 
Reywald, they must return to the city to track him 
down. Finding him is easy enough: he lingers near the 
jail (perhaps foolishly) and approaches the party when 
he sees them return. However, the guard will arrest the 
PCs on sight for the crime of breaking Harper out of 
prison, and they’re on high alert, especially if any guards 
were killed during the jailbreak. 
IF LILLI LEAVES THE WITCHWILLOW DEMESNE
Unless the PCs convince her otherwise, Lilli leaves the 
demesne and returns to exonerate Harper. Unless Lilli 
returns to the witchwillow demesne in 3 days, Yffreyja’s 
control slips over the threshold irredeemably toward the 
Shadow. If the PCs return to the demesne after a week, 
they find the land plunged into darkness, the hedge 
maze dead, and the top half of the tower lying broken 
in the bushes below. Yffreyja is nowhere to be found. If 
they return to the witchwillow after a month, the disks 
no longer open the portal within the trunk, and the 
demesne is inaccessible. Ellilee is found hiding in the 
branches of the tree and weeps for the loss of her lady. 
She is unable to divulge any details other than visions of 
the shadows swarming in. 
The Amberthauds are thankful to the PCs for 
returning their daughter and grant them a reward of 100 
gp per person (a rather paltry sum for such a wealthy 
family). They insist that Lilli return home and marry her 
betrothed as arranged and place her under guard day 
and night. 
The Elincourts are likewise grateful and pay the PCs 
whatever was agreed upon if they spoke previously. 
Harper is freed and weeps when he sees Lilli again. He is 
heartbroken at the prospect of her marrying another, but 
it is nothing compared to when he thought she was dead, 
so he is resigned to let her go. 
IF LILLI REMAINS IN THE 
WITCHWILLOW DEMESNE
The PCs can convince Lilli to stay with Yffreyja by 
promising to bring Harper to her. The PCs can attempt a 
jail break or may try to convince Captain Karlora or the 
Amberthauds that Lilli is alive and well with no desire 
to return to them. If the PCs mention returning to her 
parents or the guard, Lilli will give them her necklace as 
proof that she yet lives. 
The PCs can present the necklace to Captain Karlora 
or to the Amberthauds… the Amberthauds attempt to 
shift the blame to the PCs, accusing them of being part 
of the plot and taking the necklace from her body, but 
Captain Karlora has grown tired of their excuses and 
takes the opportunity to release Harper, and she asks 
Harper and the PCs to wish Lilli well. Harper returns to 
the witchwillow with or without the PCs and joins Lilli in 
the tower. If the PCs return with him, Yffreyja will offer 
one of the disks to the PCs to keep. If the PCs return to 
the demesne in the future, they find the tower in better 
shape, filled with unseen servants cleaning and repairing 
the building. Music fills the halls. The sky, though still 
twilight, seems just a bit brighter. 
If the PCs convince Lilli to stay within the demesne 
and do not return with Harper in a week, Lilli leaves the 
demesne herself to find her love, sealing Yffreyja’s fate.

--- PAGE 86 ---
84
TERROR IN ALTBACH
The adventure begins in Altbach, a small town on 
the outskirts of Zobeck, but takes place primarily in 
the surrounding wilds of the nearby foothills of the 
Ironcrags. The adventure can easily be adapted to any 
similarly situated region.
Adventure Background
North of the Rothenian Plain, the winterfolk village of 
Keiru sat nestled within the Silver Mountain Kingdom. 
Unlike their winterfolk kin in the lower steppes, Keiru’s 
more remote location afforded them added protection 
against the onslaught of the giants that swept into the 
land—at least initially. Their bonfire songs and hearty 
gratitude for life, even amid the war and darkness 
sweeping through Domovogrod, brought the favor of 
Baldur upon them in the form of a guardian aatxe.
For years, the aatxe fulfilled its task of protecting the 
village and its people. It guarded the fields and hills by 
day, sometimes driving away ogres that found their 
way into the village pass. By night, it sat among the 
winterfolk at their bonfires, in humanoid form, keeping 
its ears up and eyes open for danger.
 The hope and goodness that ran through the small, 
steadfast village fed into the aatxe’s own spirit, energizing 
it. But the surrounding darkness that had been pressing 
down upon the land finally caved in upon Keiru. The 
deranged thursir warlord, Mensnark Obsbane, after 
hearing several reports about the remote village, finally 
sent a brigade of giants to destroy the haven and bring 
back winterfolk as slaves. The noble aatxe could not 
protect them all. The giants killed many, stomping them 
into the ground, and the aatxe was direly wounded.
After the attack, the aatxe searched the village for 
surviving winterfolk but found none. Only those few that 
escaped to the forests of Domovogrod and those turned 
slave had survived. The catastrophe sent the aatxe into a 
great depression.
The beast left the ruined village and headed south, 
following what it thought were the cries of winterfolk 
and the taunts of giants, carried by the southern winds. 
It traveled through the lands of the Kariv and across the 
Rothenian Plain. There, after many weeks of isolation, it 
lost its noble senses to despair, becoming a shadow of its 
former self, unpredictable, deluded. 
But the grace and goodness of Baldur had not 
completely abandoned the aatxe. In the hills northeast of 
Altbach, the aatxe discovered and took up residence in 
a forgotten temple of Lada (a mask of Baldur to many in 
the Crossroads). Her divine presence and holy symbols, 
painted and etched into the walls, brought the aatxe a 
faded memory of purpose and peace somewhere deep 
inside its soul. 
Within the stone halls of the temple, the aatxe was 
flooded with the memories of the glory of the Silver 
Mountain Kingdom and the crisp, joyous songs of the 
winterfolk, rising from blazing bonfires… until they 
morphed into haunting screams of despair. 
Maddened to fulfill its divine task, the aatxe set off 
through the hills until it came to the town of Altbach. Day 
after day, it quietly watched the town and its people until 
it had found what it was looking for—winterfolk. Except 
these were not truly winterfolk but the dwarven children 
of Altbach, children the aatxe deemed, in its darkened 
state-of-mind, to be winterfolk in need of its protection.
A giant indeed was coming into Altbach, one full of 
crazed determination to fulfill its task—and may the gods 
help anyone who stands in its way.
Adventure Hooks
An omen has fallen upon the small town of Altbach. Its 
children are vanishing. One day from the fields, the next 
from the mills. Dwarven families have been attacked—
the parents killed and the children nowhere to be found.
The disappearances and killings have brought the 
once-spirited town to a hush. Rumors of dark elves, 
goblin raiders, and ghouls are talked about in the local 
tavern. Many dwarves have left Altbach, and many others 
have begun staying behind the safety of their locked 
doors along with their children. 
As a result, the forges have grown cold, and the gold 
leaf production has slowed:
•	 Altbach’s mayor, Calmuresh Coppersmith, knows the 
town will not be able to resume its normal way of life 
until whatever is behind the terror is dealt with—the 
dwarven presence in Altbach, while small, is crucial. 
He hires the adventurers to get to the bottom of the 
events, stop whatever or whoever is behind them, and 
find the children.
For 5th-Level Characters

--- PAGE 87 ---
85
•	 Hammerfell, 120 miles northwest of Altbach, feels the 
ripple effect of the events in the small town. Altbach 
is one of its major trade partners for the often-
peculiar iron springs it produces, as well as a few 
other ironworks sold in its shops. Work has slowed 
for Hammerfell’s miners and forgecrafters, and many 
are threatening to leave the canton and find work 
elsewhere. Efgar Ollmoran, a prominent overseer of 
the canton’s iron production, needs answers. He is 
willing to pay the adventurers handsomely to get to 
the bottom of the grim events in Altbach so that the 
forges can flow again at full strength.
•	 Crishy and Vodolf Vikkelsheide, of the Hammerfell 
Wagon Company, have done quite well selling copper 
and iron ingots to the merchants of Altbach. The 
recent events have hurt their business. They seek to 
hire a party of adventurers to deal with the threat and 
restore peace to Altbach.
The Town of Altbach
The town of Altbach—with a population of 2,000 
humans and 200 dwarves—sits midway between the 
Margreve Forest and the Ironcrags. 
Its mother city, Zobeck, lies approximately 46 miles 
southeast while the canton of Hammerfell, one of its 
major trade partners, lies approximately 120 miles 
northwest in the Ironcrags. 
Altbach is quiet and down-to-earth yet full of 
wondrous craftsmanship. It offers both a simple way 
of life, free from the noise and hustle of Zobeck, and a 
lively existence with Altbachers keen to follow a variety 
of unique pursuits, like making enchanted buttons and 
hammering exquisite gold leaf.
The town’s inn, Sprig and Spring, is a favored 
meeting place for all the residents, human and dwarf 
alike. Altbach also boasts a large town hall, five major 
waterwheels, several forges, a shrine to Rava, and a 
variety of shops.
ADVENTURE STARTING POINT: 
CALMURESH COPPERSMITH
No matter which adventure hook is chosen, meeting 
Calmuresh Coppersmith (LN gearforged) will be the 
launching point. If using a hook other than the mayor 
himself, the contact (either Efgar or Vikkelsheide) 
directs the PCs to seek out the mayor as their initial 
point of investigation. 
The mayor says that many dwarves are leaving 
Altbach because of the killings and disappearances. He 
remains hopeful and composed, despite beginning to 
fear the loss of his job and dignity if he doesn’t get the 
issue resolved as soon as possible. 
Calmuresh brings the PCs up to speed, relaying that 
five dwarven children are currently missing (ranging in 
ages from 5–12): Grin, Serr, Rolu, Yurk, and Petal. They 
were last seen with their parents in the fields.
Four dwarven adults have also been killed and interred 
within dwarven tombs just outside of town: 
•	 Boshtand and Greeva Craftbeard, the parents of Grin, 
Serr, and Rolu. Their bodies had large puncture wounds, 
as if made by a spear. They were interred last week.
•	 Obert Shortshadow, parent of Yurk and Petal. His torso 
was severed and had similar wounds to the others. 
Interred 2 days ago.
•	 Scaldrum Forgefeather. He had the same type of 
wounds and multiple bones broken. Also interred 2 
days ago.
One dwarf has been wounded: Esper Catskull, found 
lying unconscious in a ravine on the outskirts of the 
fields the same day the bodies of the Craftbeards were 
discovered. 
He had a severe concussion, six broken ribs, a broken 
foot, and a gashed arm. Some tracks were found leading 
up into the hills but have been disregarded as being from 
livestock as several Altbachers own cattle that graze at the 
foot of the hills.
Calmuresh says that a lot of rumors are flying about, 
and he’s not sure what to believe. He lets the PCs know 
that talking with Esper would be the best place to start 
(see Rumors below). The dwarf was in a coma for a few 
days after they found him, so Calmuresh hasn’t had a 
chance to talk to him.
RUMORS
The following rumors can be meted out to the PCs should 
they choose to canvas the town for more information:
•	 Camile Landis (human scout) heard what sounded like 
a scream, coming from somewhere in the hills, though 
she doesn’t remember exactly when.
STATUS IN MIDGARD
If you are using Status (see Midgard Worldbook) and 
the PCs free the children and kill the aatxe, the PCs 
gain +1 to their Status with anyone in Altbach and 
+1 with those from Hammerfell, an important trade 
partner of Altbach. If the PCs are able to free the 
children and cure the aatxe of its corruption, their 
bonus with those in Altbach instead becomes a +2. 
These modifiers stack with similar Status modifiers 
the PCs may possess.

--- PAGE 88 ---
86
•	 Olgrim Silverstare (dwarf commoner), the tender at 
the Sprig and Spring, heard that goblin raiders came 
through the area and stole the children as slaves.
•	 The aged Moss Frescolo (human commoner) swears 
he saw a group of shadow fey with a handful of 
children by the western mill.
•	 Blind Isabella (human commoner) heard what 
sounded like the roaring of a bull on the night 
Boshtand and Greeva were killed.
•	 Nels Rockdrift (dwarf commoner) remembers a noble 
but anxious man with yellowish-hazel eyes and a red 
cloak, walking through the marketplace. She knows 
everyone in town but has never seen him. 
•	 Esper Catskull (dwarf commoner) is just waking 
up from his coma. He was attacked by the aatxe 
when it spotted him working in the fields, not far 
from Boshtand and Greeva Craftbeard. He doesn’t 
remember much of anything from that day after 
entering the fields to gather crops. But he does 
show the PCs his ripped tunic from the attack. On 
a successful DC 10 Intelligence (Investigation) or 
Wisdom (Perception) check, soft bright-red hairs 
(belonging to the aatxe) are found on the tunic. On a 
successful DC 20 Intelligence (Arcana) check, the hairs 
are surmised to come from a beast that is celestial in 
nature (GM’s discretion).
•	 The mysterious Sprite of Altbach (sprite), who lives 
quietly in a grove of trees near the field, saw a red bull 
with yellow eyes trotting up into the hills with several 
children on its back. The sprite is extremely shy. There 
is a 30% chance she will show herself to a PC passing 
by her home, as the party begins their ascent into the 
hills, and relay what she saw.
The Hills
The hills leading up to the forgotten temple of Lada span 
18 miles, which has been sectioned below into three 
2-hour treks wherein encounters can take place. The 
grasses are thick in the hills, and there is no trail, but 
travel is fairly straightforward and easy. 
While there is flexibility in not using all the encounters 
below, it is recommended that the Escaped Child 
encounter be used as fodder for the PCs to resolve the 
aatxe’s madness using a healing/social resolution.
FIRST TREK ENCOUNTERS
Here are some possible encounters for the party’s first 
trip into the hills.
Digging for Scraps. Two dogmoles (see Tome of 
Beasts) are ranging the hills in search of food.
Fomenting Fog. A falsifier fog (see Tome of Beasts 
2) has taken up residence around the base of the hills—
having been attracted to the area by the recent killings—
and has begun feeding from the distress and anxiety that 
permeates the town. As the PCs move into the area on 
their beginning ascent up into the hills, the fog closes in 
around them.
Lada’s Devout. A ravenfolk warrior and five 
ravenfolk scouts (see Tome of Beasts) journey out of 
the hills to Altbach. They are on a trek to fulfil an oath 
they made to a local dwarven blacksmith who lives 
there. They know nothing about the aatxe or the missing 
children but do have knowledge of the ancient temple 
of Lada along the ridge and will share the following if 
they take a favorable disposition to the PCs, requiring a 
successful DC 15 Charisma (Persuasion) check:
•	 There is a temple located within a grove of trees at the 
top of the hills.
•	 The name of the temple is Athnuadaca—the temple of 
restoration.
•	 The temple was dedicated to the goddess Lada.
•	 There’s a well in the temple, fed by an underground 
spring. The waters were an important part of a ritual 
of healing.
•	 Fellark Hailbright, also known as Fellark the Valiant, 
a renowned warrior in the region, forsook the ways of 
war and became a monk at Athnuadaca.
•	 Most of the common goods of the temple have been 
looted, but the library was locked by an arcane puzzle 
so is likely largely intact.
The ravenfolk will only attack if they feel threatened. 
If the ravenfolk receive the PCs favorably, there is a 
70% chance that the warrior and leader of the group, 
Grenlow Razorbeak (ravenfolk warrior, see Tome of 
Beasts), will offer to lead/accompany the PCs to the 
temple for 10 gp and some food. If he does so, he sends 
the scouts on their way to fulfil their oath.
SECOND TREK ENCOUNTERS
Here are some possible encounters for the party’s 
second trip into the hills.
Bring Out Your Dead. Three beggar ghouls (see 
Tome of Beasts) are drawn in by the recent dead, trying 
to dig their way into the tombs near town.
Sudden Storm. A sudden storm forms above the 
hills of Altbach and quickly sweeps down upon the 
PCs. Until they hit the final trek, the hills around them 
become difficult terrain, perception checks relying 
on sight and hearing are made at disadvantage, and 
there is a 10% chance that one of the PCs is struck by a 
weakly discharged bolt of lightning and must succeed

--- PAGE 89 ---
87
on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw, taking 14 (4d6) 
lightning damage on a failed save or half as much on a 
successful one.
Turn Back. The aatxe (see Creature Codex, using the 
corrupted variant), manifesting as a red-robed man with 
yellowish-hazel eyes, crosses paths with the adventurers 
and tries to misdirect them from continuing their 
journey to the ancient temple. 
The man tells the PCs that the area is sacred ground 
and dedicated to his family, so as trespassers, they must 
turn back. If the PCs do not heed him, the aatxe falls 
back to the temple to protect the “winterfolk” in its 
newly familiar domain when the PCs arrive. 
On a successful DC 12 Wisdom (Perception) check, a 
PC perceives signs of delusion from the man, and if the 
PC previously noticed the red hairs on Esper Catskull’s 
tunic and succeeds by 8 or more, they note that the 
threads that make up the man’s red robe are like those 
red hairs (see Esper Catskull in Rumors above).
FINAL TREK ENCOUNTERS
Here are some possible encounters for the party’s third 
trip into the hills.
Escaped Child. Approximately 5 miles away from 
Athnuadaca, the PCs encounter a 12-year-old dwarven 
child named Petal Shortshadow. She is upset yet 
composed enough to relay information. 
Petal escaped from the temple wherein she was being 
held and was hurrying down through the hills toward 
Altbach to get help. She won’t accompany the PCs but 
will either climb up into a nearby tree to wait for them to 
return or continue on her way to Altbach to a relative’s 
house.
The PCs can learn the following from her:
•	 A red bull with yellow eyes attacked their parents and 
took them from the fields.
•	 They were locked up in a room with a lot of books.
•	 Sometimes the bull changes into a man. 
•	 The man has been very kind to them, too kind, and 
sometimes goes into a fit of sorrow. He keeps calling 
the children his “little winterfolk.” To Petal, the man 
seems mad.
•	 The man often brought them food and water but 
always kept them locked up, always telling them that 
“the giants will not find you here.”
•	 Her younger brother, Yurk, is still up there with the 
others. 
•	 She was able to escape after the man began taking the 
children out of the room one at a time at certain times 
during the day to show them images of the god who he 
said sent him. Petal took off when the man brought her 
into a chapel.
•	 The chapel had paintings of a woman in a yellow dress.
Follow the Path. On a successful DC 13 Wisdom 
(Nature or Perception) check, a PC spots an area of 
the grasses that are trodden down as if something large 
passed this way. The trodden grasses form a faint path 
that leads to the ancient temple of Athnuadaca.
Turn Back Now. The PCs meet the aatxe as in 
the Turn Back encounter above. If the aatxe already 
encountered the PCs during the second trek, it is more 
forceful this time about its demands for them to turn 
back. 
If the PCs do not turn back, it will revert into its true 
form (that of a massive crimson bull) and attack them, 
fleeing or vanishing at some point during the combat 
to stand ground at the temple only if it feels the PCs are 
getting the upper hand on it.
Old Temple Grove
The ancient temple, Athnuadaca, sits hidden within a 
grove of trees at the top of the hills. The temple cannot 
be seen unless one walks through the grove for at least 80 
yards or flies above it. 
The grove spans 140 yards of tall trees with shaggy 
limbs and streaked with gray bark and lichen. As the 
PCs traverse the grove, the following optional events 
can be used:
•	 Hope and Healing. The statue of Lada, with the 
palm of her hand extended, stands at the edge of 
a long‑overgrown trail once used by pilgrims on 
their way to the temple. An inscription at the base 
of the statue reads, “To All in Need of Hope and 
Healing.” In the palm of the statue’s hand are six 
magical healing berries that, though shriveled, have 
not succumbed completely to the effects of time and 
decay. The berries contain healing energy as if created 
by the goodberry spell.
•	 Natural Pit. A certain area of the forest—one that 
used to have an underground spring coursing through 
it—begins to cave in. The PCs must succeed on a DC 
13 Dexterity saving throw or fall into a sudden 15‑foot 
earthen pit, taking 7 (2d6) bludgeoning damage. 
Climbing out of the pit requires a successful DC 15 
Strength (Athletics) check.
When the PCs break through the grove, they find 
themselves standing before the temple of Athnuadaca, 
lying across a lush swath of green grass 40 yards away.

--- PAGE 90 ---
88
The Ancient Temple of Athnuadaca
A large yellowish-gray stone structure, its surface streaked 
with bright-green moss, stands at the center of the grove 
of trees in an open, grassy field.
The temple was built by Lada’s devotees as a place 
of peace and healing, offering the compassion of the 
goddess to pilgrims who came seeking a remedy from 
their physical and spiritual ailments. 
Many years later, it was sacked by goblin raiders. 
The goblins, however, were unable to gain access to 
the temple’s library, which was protected by an arcane 
puzzle lock.
Unless otherwise noted in the location descriptions, 
the temple has these general features:
•	 Ceilings. The chapel’s ceiling is 50 feet high at its 
center. The rooms and passageways of the temple have 
15-foot-high ceilings made of rough granite.
•	 Doors. All doors are made of carved wood and have 
iron hinges. Locked doors can be unlocked with a 
successful DC 15 Dexterity (thieves’ tools) check, and 
stuck doors (AC 15; hp 30; immunity to poison and 
psychic damage) can be forced open with a successful 
DC 20 Strength (Athletics) check. The temple’s library 
contains magically locked puzzle-doors. On the temple 
map, locked doors are shaded gray while open doors 
are unshaded.
•	 Floors and Walls. The temple walls are comprised of 
5-foot-thick granite blocks (except in parts of Area 3), 
and the floors are smooth stone.
•	 Light. Empty iron sconces line the walls of each area. 
In the daytime, Area 1 and Area 2 are well lit. All 
other areas of the temple are dimly lit due to the light 
filtering in through cracks and fissures in the ceiling 
and walls.
•	 Orientation. The main doors of the temple face east, 
allowing the light of dawn to bathe the chapel and 
portico.
AREA 1: CHAPEL
Images of men, women, and children throwing rose petals 
at the feet of a black-haired woman in a bright-yellow dress 
with a staff in one hand and a scimitar at her side adorn 
the walls of this domed chapel. Busted-up chairs and pews 
lie scattered across the floor. At the back, between two 
large pillars, a robed figure stands in front of an altar with 
their hands raised in prayer. On the chapel ceiling, above 
the altar, a painted yellow eye with ray-like lashes looks 
out over all who enter. A set of steps leads through open 
archways on either side of the eastern arched wall. Ornate 
wooden doors flank each end of the western altar wall, and 
there’s a closed door on each of the north and south walls. 
N
7
6
8
3
1
5
4
2
h

--- PAGE 91 ---
89
The northern and western doors are open, and 
the southern door is locked by a magic puzzle (see 
Area 3).
The woman portrayed on the walls is 
the goddess Lada, to whom the temple is 
dedicated, recognizable by PCs that the GM 
deems would know this or on a successful 
DC 13 Intelligence (History) check.
Creatures. The robed figure before the 
altar, Irenu, the once-human priest of the 
temple, is now a fane spirit (see Tome 
of Beasts 2). He was killed during the 
goblin raid but has no memory of 
the event. If the PCs approach the 
altar, they see that he is praying 
over a golden holy symbol of Lada 
that sits atop the altar. 
The PCs hear him finish his 
prayer with these words: “O 
compassionate lady, imbue 
this, your holy symbol, with 
your divine grace so that 
the water in which it is 
submerged may flow with 
your healing love.” After Irenu 
finishes the prayer, he turns 
and respectively greets the PCs, 
supposing they are pilgrims who have 
come to venerate Lada and receive 
healing from the well during 
a ritual of restoration. PCs 
notice that his lips are painted 
silver, an outward sign that 
he has taken an oath 
to speak only words 
of priestly prayers. Irenu may nod or shake his head if 
questioned but ultimately leaves through the door on the 
left side of the western wall, quietly retiring to his cell. 
He has seen the aatxe once, in humanoid form, 
believing him to be a devotee come to honor the goddess 
of light. He doesn’t know that the aatxe is keeping 
children locked up in the refectory on the other side of 
the temple complex. 
As a fane spirit, he is caught in the routine he knew 
best as an arch priest of the temple—praying at the 
altar at certain times during the day, especially asking 
for Lada’s grace upon her holy symbol for the ritual of 
restoration, and spending the rest of his time meditating 
in silence behind locked doors. If threatened, Irenu 
transforms into his undead form and attacks.
If the PCs arrive at night, Irenu either has already 
transformed into his undead nature or the PCs witness 
his transformation (GM’s discretion). Refer to the Tome 
of Beasts 2 for detailed information regarding the fane 
spirit’s transformation. In his undead form, Irenu attacks 
any intruders in the temple.
Treasure. The iris of the “radiant eye” holy symbol 
is an amethyst worth 100 gp. The total value of the 
holy symbol in its entirety is 210 gp. When the goblins 
attacked the temple, Irenu had just enough time to hide 
the symbol in a secret compartment in the back of the 
altar before fleeing to his quarters for refuge. 
AREA 2: PORTICO
At the center of this spacious portico—with four archways 
leading down a set of steps and outside—stands a 
3-foot‑high stone pool filled with clear water. Two closed 
doors flank the western wall, and two closed doors 
flank the southern wall. An inscription at the top of the 
southern wall reads: “O Lady of the Healing Hand, we 
beseech thee to restore our minds, hearts, and bodies.”

--- PAGE 92 ---
90
On the southern wall, the eastern door is open, and 
the western door is locked. 
Both doors on the western wall are open.
The pool is fed by an underground spring and was 
used in a rite of restoration to bring healing to pilgrims. 
To prepare for the rite, the priest places the radiant eye 
holy symbol on the chapel altar and prays to Lada, asking 
for her divine grace to infuse it. 
When it’s time for the rite to begin, the symbol is 
brought into the portico and placed in the water. This 
action magically transforms the water into a Wellspring 
of Greater Restoration—once infused, a creature that 
drinks or bathes in the water receives the benefits of a 
greater restoration spell. 
The water retains its efficacy for an hour once removed 
from the pool, and there is enough for 10 uses. The 
water’s grace-filled healing is potent enough to cure the 
madness of the aatxe and restore it to its former nobility.
AREA 3: LIBRARY
The temple’s sacred library is guarded by the same 
magical puzzle lock on each of its three doors.
Puzzle Lock. A series of letters, six down and six 
across, is etched in the upper center of the door. This 
code was specifically arranged in a six-by-six pattern to 
cause initial confusion as to whether the focus should 
be on the rows or columns. The inscription above the 
puzzle’s code reads, “A name spoken will open this door. 
To find it, look to the east and west, never to the north 
and south.” 
It reveals that the answer lies in the rows (“look to 
the east and west”), starting at the top row, and not the 
columns (“never to the north and south”). The code below 
the inscription contains the solution: a phrase or word 
spoken that opens the door (GM’s discretion to use either 
Option 1 or Option 2 below). The key to finding the 
phrase or word lies in understanding the code. The code 
is made up of a series of six sets, starting with a Roman 
numeral followed by two Arabic numerals. The Roman 
numeral denotes the row number, starting with the top 
row of letters, and the Arabic numerals point to two 
letters in that row via the number of spaces. For instance, 
the first set is I 1,2. This is translated as letters L and A in 
the first row of the series. 
The solution is “Lady of the Sun”:
•	 Option 1. The PCs have to say, “Lady of the Sun,” 
aloud and the door will open.
•	 Option 2. The PCs have to say, “Lada,” who is the Lady 
of the Sun, aloud and the door will open.
Upon entrance into the library, read the following:
DOOR PUZZLE
I 1,2 
II 3,6 
III 4,5 
IV 2,5 
V 2,5 
VI 1,3
L 
A 
R 
T 
R 
I
E 
N 
D 
O 
N 
Y 
T 
T 
H 
O 
F 
D
G 
T 
E 
M
H 
T
A 
E 
G 
I 
S 
X
U 
M 
N 
I 
O 
O
DOOR PUZZLE SOLUTION
L 
A 
R 
T 
R 
I
E 
N 
D 
O 
N 
Y 
T 
T 
H 
O 
F 
D
G 
T 
E 
M
H 
T
A 
E 
G 
I 
S 
X
U 
M 
N 
I 
O 
O

--- PAGE 93 ---
91
The smell of parchment and leather fills the room, which 
contains bookcases stacked with a variety of books and 
scrolls. A small desk with a quill, inkwell, and a red 
leatherbound book resides in the eastern alcove. There 
are closed wooden doors on the eastern, northern, and 
western walls.
The books and scrolls that fill these bookcases contain 
writings on the goddess Lada, history, herbalism, 
meditation, prayer, worship rites, poetry, gardening, 
and architecture. 
The inkwell on the desk is dry. The red book details 
temple rituals, and a particular priestly ritual—regarding 
how the radiant eye holy symbol is blessed by Lada while 
on the altar and then brought into the portico where it is 
submerged in the pool, permeating the water with Lada’s 
healing energies—is marked with a ribbon. 
Key. A locked desk drawer contains a key that unlocks 
the northwestern door of the refectory (Area 8).
Treasure. On a successful DC 15 Intelligence 
(Investigation) check, a spell scroll of cure wounds 
is discovered. On a successful DC 18 Intelligence 
(Investigation) check, a spell scroll of beacon of hope is 
also found.
AREA 4: APOTHECARIUM 
The deep smell of earth permeates the air of this room. 
A slew of broken terra-cotta jugs, glass jars, and potion 
bottles litter broken shelves and the floor. A pack of 
small reptilian-looking creatures with spiny backs and 
razor‑sharp teeth turn in unison to gaze at you with 
glowing blue eyes. 
The eastern doors are open, and the southern door is 
locked.This room was used to store a variety of herbs 
and potions to aid pilgrims. Most of the contents were 
destroyed or looted during the goblin raid. 
Creatures. Five chupacabras (see Creature Codex) 
lost the trail of the wild boar they were hunting in the 
grove and found their way to the temple’s apothecarium, 
investigating its variety of odors.
Treasure. A few empty potion bottles remain intact on 
one of the shelves still standing. PCs who investigate the 
intact bottles find a full potion bottle behind the empty 
ones. It contains a blue liquid that bubbles faintly and 
steams: a potion of heroism.
AREA 5: PRIEST’S QUARTERS
This small room contains a desk that sits against the 
north wall, a rotting cot against the southern wall, and a 
dilapidated bookshelf holding a few books. 
The eastern door is open, and the northern doors are 
locked but can be opened from inside the quarters.
This is the priestly quarters of Irenu, priest of the 
temple. Killed here during the goblin raid, he is now 
a fane spirit (see Tome of Beasts 2). When not in the 
chapel, he is here, sitting on a stone chair near the 
bookshelf, quietly reading a book. If met here, the 
PCs notice that his lips are painted silver, an outward 
sign that he has taken an oath to speak only words of 
priestly prayers. 
While here, Irenu remains completely quiet, having 
entered a prayerful state of mind that was part of his 
normal routine during the day. In such a state, Irenu 
does not acknowledge the PCs unless he is physically 
disturbed, and any such disturbance to him here 
triggers in him a memory of his last moments during 
the goblin raid, and he suddenly transforms into his 
undead form and attacks the PCs.
AREA 6: MONASTIC QUARTERS
Three raised stone beds, a bookshelf, three small reading 
tables with chairs, and a tapestry of a radiant eye looking 
out over a wilderness scene adorn this room. Near the 
center of the room lies a headless skeleton wrapped in a 
blood-stained gray robe.
The door is open. 
The headless skeleton is that of Fellark Hailbright, 
who was killed here during the goblin raid. Fellark took 
his renunciation of war and violence with the utmost 
sincerity, bowing his neck to a goblin scimitar without a 
fight. The goblins took his renowned head with them as 
a trophy.
Aged books on prayer, stillness, the goddess Lada, 
and nature can be found on the bookshelf. On a 
successful DC 12 Intelligence (Investigation) check, 
PCs searching the books find a journal that belonged to 
Fellark. The journal details some important aspects of 
his life, especially how he forsook the ways of war and 
joined the temple as a monk, specifically mentioning 
his wondrous helm and how he felt the radiant eye of 
Lada was what called him to a life surpassing that of 
war and violence.
The wooden reading table is barren.

--- PAGE 94 ---
92
Tapestry. The tapestry depicting the radiant eye is 
saturated with mysterious, divine energy from years 
of intense and repentant prayer in front of it. PCs who 
investigate or look at the tapestry for more than 20 
seconds must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw 
or be paralyzed in ecstasy for 1d4 hours.
Treasure. Fellark’s helm, the warrior’s eye helm 
(see Appendix), is located in a hidden compartment 
at the foot of his stone bed. The faint outline of the 
compartment can be noticed on a successful DC 15 
Wisdom (Perception) check. The compartment can be 
located by a PC searching around the stone beds on a DC 
13 Intelligence (Investigation) check. 
AREA 7: MEDITATION ROOM
Four stone seats protrude from the western wall, which 
has wood panels depicting a radiant eye. A simple wooden 
lectern lies face down on the floor. A large hole in the 
ceiling allows you to gaze up into the sky above. Shadows 
suddenly move over the opening as a pair of giant spiders 
swiftly crawl inside and begin to climb down the wall 
toward you.
The doors are open.
Creatures. The two phase spiders have recently 
phased onto the temple roof to investigate. Having 
sensed the PCs in the room below, they descend through 
the hole, hoping for a quick meal of opportunity.
A book of prayers and meditations to the goddess Lada 
lies beneath the fallen lectern.
AREA 8: REFECTORY
Broken tables and chairs are strewn across this large 
room. Near the northwestern corner lies a small 
humanoid skeleton in an aged, murky-green tunic and 
leather armor. Four dwarven children sit huddled together 
behind a table and chairs in the southwestern corner. A 
red-robed man standing near them quickly moves toward 
you, suddenly morphing into a giant red bull with fierce 
yellow eyes.
The northwestern door is locked (its key can be found 
in Area 3), the southeastern door is locked by a magic 
puzzle (see Area 3), and the northern door is open.
See Concluding the Adventure for the aatxe 
encounter.
The missing children are here. The skeleton is that of a 
goblin, one of the few who died at the hands of devotees 
during the raid on the temple. A successful DC 10 
Intelligence (Investigation) check reveals a small pouch 
tied to a belt hidden beneath the garments. The pouch 
contains two pieces of turquoise, worth 10 gp each, and 
5 sp.
Concluding the Adventure
The aatxe (see Creature Codex, using the corrupted 
variant) cannot be reasoned with in its maddened state. 
It sees the PCs as direct threats that must be dispatched. 
If the PCs have blessed water from the Wellspring of 
Greater Restoration (see Area 2), splashing the aatxe 
with this water will be enough to bestow upon it the 
restorative healing effects of the water, curing it of its 
madness and restoring its nobility. 
Otherwise, the aatxe charges and will not stop 
attacking until it is defeated.If the aatxe is splashed with 
the water from the Wellspring of Greater Restoration, it 
retreats to a corner of the room as it begins to return to 
its former self. Moments later, it is completely cured and 
can recognize its fall from its former grace. It thanks the 
PCs and offers to take the children back to Altbach.The 
healed aatxe now desires to fulfil its task by becoming 
the protector of Altbach, coming to the realization that 
Baldur’s grace never left it and simply led it here to be 
healed. It seeks to restore the temple and vows to watch 
over and protect Altbach.The healing of the aatxe acts as 
a divine catalyst of restoration that extends to the rest of 
the temple—and even the priest, Irenu, finds rest and is 
no longer seen in the temple.

--- PAGE 95 ---
93
PRIDE OF THE MUSHROOM QUEEN
This adventure takes place in the Arbonesse Forest but 
can be adapted to any forested location. 
Adventure Background
Two centuries ago, a creature known as the Weft of 
Shadows broke into a minor elf noble’s extraplanar 
vault in the Summer Lands, and stealing several 
powerful magic items, it deposited them in random 
forest locations throughout Midgard. However, thanks 
to an unusual set of rules involved in the creation of 
these artifacts, once mortal hands have touched them, 
the elves can no longer claim them. (This adventure 
continues with the background introduced in the 
previous Wrath of the Bramble King chapter.)
Similarly, these odd rules prevented the Weft of 
Shadows from making shadow versions of the relics 
without them first touching mortal hands. While the 
Weft of Shadows was content to allow the other artifacts 
to wreak havoc in their own ways, it had different plans 
for the Enoki Scepter. The item was capable of corrupting 
plants and flesh with fungus, and the Weft planned to 
use it to inflict terrible harm on the Arbonesse elves.
The agents of the Weft of Shadows found a victim in 
Elela Argaria Sheoloss, an elf with a predilection for the 
mushrooms growing in the shadows of the Arbonesse’s 
great trees. After flooding her mind with visions of a 
paradise filled with all varieties of beautiful fungi, they 
watched as she embraced these visions and espoused 
the rights of these overlooked plants. Her fellow elves 
regarded her as eccentric and ignored her rantings as 
harmless…until she began to poison plants and cultivate 
harmful fungi. The elven leaders had no choice but to 
imprison her while they discussed her fate. They didn’t 
want to execute her, but exiling her into the forest would 
allow her to continue endangering it.
It was a moot point since she escaped with the aid of 
those same agents. Angered at her treatment and the 
elves’ lack of understanding about the inevitable fungal 
paradise, she “conveniently” discovered the Enoki 
Scepter at the most opportune time. After surreptitiously 
infecting a community of Arbonesse elves with the 
scepter’s magic, she remained nearby until the elves 
began to succumb to the fungal rot, which was resistant 
to their magic. Disappointed when the first casualties 
transformed into shambling plant creatures (instead of 
fungus) that followed her around, she decided she needed 
a place to study the scepter and further unlock its magic. 
Unknowingly led to a clearing with a thinning border 
to the Shadow Realm, she used the scepter to create a 
modest garden of fungi. As she grew more confident with 
the scepter, she devastated other small communities, 
which fell to virulent fungal infections inflicted by the 
scepter. Ultimately, she nearly depleted the scepter’s 
power to create her grand Fungal Citadel, which stands as 
a blight in the forest and a beacon to her “converts.”
Surviving Arbonesse elves watch helplessly as their 
loved ones die and then arise the next morning to 
shamble mindlessly, deep within the forest toward the 
citadel. Aware of their susceptibility to the so-called 
Mushroom Queen’s magic, they seek outside assistance 
to defeat the menace.
Adventure Hooks
The PCs may be traveling through the Arbonesse on 
other business and end up in an afflicted village or 
encounter a villager seeking assistance. Daesanderena 
may have worked with the PCs to retrieve portions of 
the wayward artifacts (as detailed in the previous Wrath 
of the Bramble King chapter) and seeks their assistance 
once again (see A Simple Request below). Or one of the 
PCs may be an Arbonesse elf, or the PCs may be friends 
of the elves from other adventures, compelling them to 
assist the elves.
ADAPTING PRIDE OF THE MUSHROOM 
QUEEN FOR TALES OF MARGREVE
Though this adventure takes place in the Arbonesse 
Forest, it can easily be adapted to fit into the 
Margreve. First, the Arbonesse elves afflicted by the 
fungal conversion should be changed to elves with 
Stross ancestry. Second, while the Fungal Citadel is 
regarded as “natural” to a certain extent, the Margreve 
regards it as an affront, especially as it creeps outward. 
Thus, the PCs receive Status for destroying the Fungal 
Citadel and allowing the Margreve to reclaim the land.
For 6th-Level Characters

--- PAGE 96 ---
94
A Rotten State of Affairs
The PCs arrive at an afflicted village and can view the 
horror of elves covered in a wide variety of toadstools 
and other fungi. Most of the elves are bedridden, hours 
or days away from their terrible fate of transforming 
into shambling plants bound to walk toward the Fungal 
Citadel. The fungus resists efforts to remove it as a disease 
or to destroy it as a plant and seems to intensify its growth 
in response to such countermeasures. Investigating 
the spread of the fungus reveals it only seems to affect 
Arbonesse elves. This is corroborated by anecdotes of 
uninfected elves touching infected elves and waking the 
next morning with fungus growing from their bodies. 
The Arbonesse elves are reticent at best to confront the 
Mushroom Queen and plead for the PCs to eliminate her 
and find a cure for their condition. The elves’ desperation 
induces them to offer a suit of elven chain as a reward to 
the PCs, even if none of them are elves.
To find the Fungal Citadel, the PCs can follow a dead 
victim that arises and meanders toward the complex. 
Alternatively, a successful DC 10 Wisdom (Survival) 
check picks up a broken trail of mushrooms leading to 
the citadel.
A Simple Request
Daesanderena, an elf from the Summer Lands, finds 
the PCs as they travel to the Fungal Citadel, if she has 
not already commissioned them to find the Enoki 
Scepter. If the PCs helped her with the Bramble Crown, 
she expresses her appreciation for their assistance. She 
requires the PCs to retrieve a fungal growth from the 
Enoki Scepter for her (relaying the information in the first 
paragraph of the Adventure Background if necessary). 
Once the PCs return with the requested item, she gifts 
them with a gem of brightness, hoping it will serve them 
well in future dealings with the Weft of Shadows.
The Fungal Citadel
The Mushroom Queen found this clearing in the 
Arbonesse Forest, with its meandering stream feeding 
a couple of ponds, and decided this was the perfect 
location for her seat of power. She expended most of 
the Enoki Scepter’s power to grow this compound from 
surrounding fungus. The centerpiece of the citadel (Area 
6) is shaped like a giant mushroom, measuring 30 feet 
high and topped with a bright-red cap, which shades 
most of the remainder of the complex. The walls and 
doors of the rooms have the consistency of wood, but 
the walls constantly sweat and breathe, giving the whole 
place an unsettling appearance.
Though the citadel’s floors are spongy, they provide 
adequate support for most creatures and are normal 
terrain except where noted. Bioluminescent fungi 
provide dim light throughout the citadel except where 
noted. Innumerable spores float gently in this light.
The Enoki Scepter’s corrupted magic permeates the 
citadel. While within the Fungal Citadel, elves and 
elfmarked take a −2 penalty on all saving throws against 
poisons or diseases. Arbonesse elves are especially 
susceptible to the scepter’s magic and have disadvantage 
on these saving throws in addition to the penalty.
The smell of rot pervades every room in the citadel. 
A PC who does not take precautions to cover their nose 
and mouth must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving 
throw or become poisoned for 1 hour. An unprotected 
PC must attempt this save every 10 minutes they remain 
within the citadel.
AREA 1: ENTRANCE TO THE CITADEL
Black and red fungus forms striped doors, marking 
the entrance to the Mushroom Queen’s compound. 
There are no handles or knobs to open the doors, but 
a successful DC 14 Intelligence (Investigation) check 
finds an indentation on the door that holds a slimy 
nodule. The doors swing inward when the nodule is 
pressed. The doors can also be hacked apart with a 
successful DC 15 Strength (Athletics) check using an 
edged weapon or tool, but the noise alerts the creatures 
in Areas 3, 4, and 6 to the PCs’ presence. If the PCs 
followed a risen victim here, it melds through the 
door and into the citadel without issue. The body then 
continues to shamble to Area 5 where the fungal vines 
on the wall embrace the new convert and hang it from 
the wall in a supplicating pose.
A successful DC 20 Intelligence (Nature) or Wisdom 
(Perception) check notices four shriekers hidden among 
the fungal growth surrounding the door. The shriekers 
create a loud enough noise to alert every creature within 
the Fungal Citadel.
STATUS IN MIDGARD
If you are using Status (see Midgard Worldbook) and 
the PCs defeat the Mushroom Queen, the PCs gain +1 
to their Status with the River Court and the elves of the 
Arbonesse. If the PCs also destroy the Enoki Scepter, 
they gain an additional +1. These modifiers stack with 
similar Status modifiers the PCs may possess.

--- PAGE 97 ---
95
Opening the door reveals a grand hallway covered by 
a pale “carpet” of nauseating orange striations on the 
floor. The “carpet” changes color to a deep purple hue in 
the hallway to Area 2, to the color of fresh blood in the 
hallway to Area 3, and to a golden color as it curves into 
Area 5. The alcoves in the western wall are filled with 
statues of the Mushroom Queen, albeit less ostentatious 
than the one found in Area 2.
AREA 2: THE MUSHROOM QUEEN’S EFFIGY
As the PCs round the corner to the north, the rotting 
stench gives way to an intoxicatingly pleasant fragrance. 
Doors seem to lead out of this chamber from all cardinal 
directions. The floor and walls shift from a deep purple 
to lavender, and the bioluminescent fungi intensify such 
that the room is filled with bright light. A statue of the 
Mushroom Queen with her arms outstretched, pointing 
to the east and west doors, stands 15 feet tall and fills 
most of this chamber. None of the doors open to any 
chambers, but accessing the northern and southern 
doors unveils two parts of the key necessary to gain 
entrance to the central garden in Area 6, exposing PCs 
to the traps described below. The eastern and western 
doors are not trapped, but they conceal abstract carvings 
of the Mushroom Queen.
Vomiting Slime Mold Trap. When a creature opens 
the northern door, a barely contained flow of slime 
mold sprays out. Each creature within 15 feet of the 
door must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw. On a 
failure, a creature takes 5 (1d10) bludgeoning damage 
and 11 (2d10) poison damage and is poisoned for 10 
minutes. On a success, a creature takes half the damage 
and isn’t poisoned. 
	 Prevention. A successful DC 14 Wisdom 
(Perception) check hears a gurgling sound behind the 
northern door as if a high-pressure fluid is pushing 
against it. A successful DC 15 Strength (Athletics) check 
when opening the door holds it open just enough for the 
pressure from the slime to be released without harming 
all creatures within 15 feet of the door. On a failure, the 
trap triggers as normal. 
Violet Fungus Expulsion Trap. When a creature opens 
the southern door, a wall of violet fungus explodes in 
rotting spores. Each creature within 20 feet of the door 
must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw, taking 22 
(4d10) necrotic damage on a failed save or half as much 
damage on a successful one.
	 Prevention. A successful DC 15 Wisdom 
(Perception) check notices the smell of rot behind the 
southern door. A successful DC 15 Strength (Athletics) 
check when opening the door slows the flow of spores, 
limiting how many are ejected at one time. If successful, 
each creature within 20 feet of the door has advantage on 
its saving throw. On a failure, the trap triggers as normal. 
Alternatively, a gust of wind spell timed with opening the 
door disperses the spores harmlessly.
Two key halves carved from a gold-colored mushroom 
sit imbedded in the walls behind the northern and 
southern doors. Tendrils wriggle out from each half, 
harmlessly grasping at any creature that holds it. 
When the two halves are put together, they make a 
sucking sound and combine into one triangular, golden 
mushroom key. Once formed, the key can’t be separated 
into its two halves again.
AREA 3: RECEPTION AREA
The Mushroom Queen believes that once she becomes 
established in the Arbonesse as a ruler in her own right, 
she will need to meet with guests. She carved out this 
chamber near the main entrance to serve as a room 
where she could greet subjects and visiting dignitaries 
in a comfortable and friendly manner. The floor is 
checkered in alternating patches of white and dark-
brown fungi, and the ceiling is covered in lacy, luminous 
moss. Two red-surfaced tables surrounded by chairs 
carved from sturdy fungus rest near the northern and 
western walls. 
Two cavelight mosses (see Tome of Beasts) cling to the 
ceiling and attack any creature not accompanied by the 
Mushroom Queen. 
AREA 4: RESPLENDENT POND
The Mushroom Queen preserved the vibrant purple and 
orange flowering plants in this room when she found the 
death butterfly swarm (see Tome of Beasts) attending 
them. The swarm does not bother her or any other 
fungal creatures. The butterflies composing the swarm 
flit about the flowers for 1 round before coalescing into 
a swarm and attacking fleshy (or undead) intruders. A 
successful DC 14 Intelligence (Nature) check recognizes 
the swarm’s danger before it forms.
AREA 5: GALLERY
Elf victims who die because of the Enoki Scepter’s fungal 
infestation become mobile, semi-sentient, elf-shaped 
plants and wander to the Fungal Citadel. They station 
themselves along the walls of this gallery, becoming 
“statues” that give the Mushroom Queen a grand view 
of her handiwork when she leaves the central garden. 
All of them are long dead, but each hangs on the wall, 
suspended by “vines” of silver fungus in various poses 
of supplication or heroism—whichever the Mushroom 
Queen found most pleasing upon the creature’s arrival. 
After the Mushroom Queen’s magic is reversed in the 
Fungal Citadel, these unfortunates revert to flesh, but 
they remain dead. The gallery’s floor is a spongy carpet of 
golden fungus, and the walls are drapes of silver fungus 
that emit bright light.

--- PAGE 98 ---
96
2
3
4
6
7
1
5
9
10
11
12
8
The door to Area 6 appears to be a contiguous section 
of the wall broken only by a circular golden panel made 
of fungus. A triangular indentation sits in the center 
of the panel. A successful DC 15 Intelligence (Arcana 
or Investigation) check realizes the unique and slightly 
magical nature of the lock and that it requires a special 
key to open.
Treasure. Many of the victims still wear or carry 
mementos of their former lives. A successful DC 18 
Wisdom (Perception) check while inspecting the “statues” 
finds a few wedding rings, necklaces, wooden carvings, 
and other personal trinkets worth a total of 75 gp.
AREA 6: THE CENTRAL GARDEN
While the other areas in the Fungal Citadel have 
been cultivated to mimic passageways and rooms of 
an ordinary building, the central garden has been 
allowed to run rampant. A meandering walking path 
cuts through the veritable fungus forest. The various 
standing mushrooms and toadstools in the area have

--- PAGE 99 ---
97
a disturbing tendency to lean toward flesh-and-blood 
creatures. If a creature brushes up against a fungus, 
the fungus releases relatively harmless spores, which 
induce a mild cough, watery eyes, or a runny nose but 
otherwise inflict no harm.
The water from the stream flows into a pond in the 
southwestern portion of the garden. The pondwater is 
clear, allowing creatures to see its entire 20-foot depth. 
While the water seems uncontaminated, the six moss 
lurkers (see Tome of Beasts) hiding in this room were 
allowed to poison it. A creature that drinks the water 
must succeed on a DC 11 Constitution saving throw or 
become poisoned for 1 hour. The moss lurkers use their 
natural camouflage to hide in the forest of fungus and 
attack intruders with hit-and-run tactics. 
A clearing in the northeast holds the remains of a 
putrescent faerie circle spell (see Appendix). The wilting 
black toadstools that form the ring are harmless now, but 
the bones of animal and humanoid victims brought here 
by the Mushroom Queen’s servants are still present. A 
successful DC 17 Intelligence (Arcana or Nature) check 
realizes the ring was created by a spell. A druid or a cleric 
of a nature-focused deity that spends 1 hour studying the 
ring can learn the putrescent faerie circle spell, though 
the druid or cleric can’t cast the spell unless they are of 
the appropriate level to do so.
AREA 7: THE SHADOW HALL
The walls and floors in this hall are made of a black 
fungus with dark-purple geometric patterns. The hall 
is shrouded in darkness. Unless otherwise noted, the 
rooms connected to this one are made of the same 
material and are similarly dark. 
Once the Mushroom Queen gave herself over fully 
to the Weft of Shadows, she agreed to permit shadowy 
creatures with tenuous ties to fungus to roam freely 
here. One such creature, a razorleaf (see Creature 
Codex), stands in front of the double doors leading to 
the throne room (Area 10) and exacerbates the gloom 
pervading this hallway. The razorleaf has planted its 
roots in the fungal ground outside the throne room, its 
Dark Ground trait actively reducing any light that tries 
to pierce the gloom. 
AREA 8: THE GARDEN OF DEAD MUSHROOMS
Contrasting to the vibrant, if grotesque, life pervading 
most of the Fungal Citadel, this room is covered in 
what appear to be dead mushrooms. The caps of the 
mushrooms have been carved out and filled with an inky 
liquid. A ring of twenty such mushrooms surrounds 
a 10-foot-tall toadstool, which sits in the center of the 
room. The air in the room is noticeably colder than the 
others off this hallway. The room’s close tie to the Shadow 
Realm allows the Mushroom Queen to use the pools of 
inky liquid to commune with the Weft of Shadows. The 
inky liquid within the giant toadstool holds two shadow 
oozes (see Creature Codex), which attack intruders that 
aren’t accompanied by the Mushroom Queen.
A successful DC 15 Wisdom (Insight) check gives a 
PC the feeling of being watched. A successful DC 15 
Intelligence (Arcana) check while inspecting the pools 
of dark liquid recognizes the pools’ use as rudimentary 
scrying devices. However, the pools currently only 
allow for something to view into this chamber and not 
vice versa. If a PC attempts to remove any liquid, it 
evaporates into wisps of shadow within 1 round of being 
removed from its mushroom.
AREA 9: MACABRE EXPERIMENTATION
A wooden table covered in oozing plant matter stands 
in each of this chamber’s corners. Another, larger table 
sits in the chamber’s center. A mold-covered corpse lies 
on the table with a single black flower sprouting from 
its chest.
As the Mushroom Queen’s attempts to create rotting 
thralls grew more sophisticated, her minions improved 
from short-lived, mindless, shambling plants that rooted 
themselves in her gallery (Area 5) to shambling zombies 
capable of following orders. She used this room for 
various experiments after creating the two mindrot thralls 
in Area 12. The Shadow Realms’s influence in the Fungal 
Citadel seeded a gloomflower (see Creature Codex) in the 
chest of the Mushroom Queen’s latest victim, the mold 
zombie (see Creature Codex) that lies on the central table. 
The zombie awaits the queen’s orders or for intruders to 
disturb its slumber. The gloomflower detaches itself from 
the mold zombie on the first turn that it acts.
Each of the three chambers adjoining this room 
contains a mold zombie, similarly awaiting the queen’s 
next order. Each has a nascent gloomflower embedded 
within its chest, which can’t attack and dies if the mold 
zombie is destroyed.
AREA 10: MUSHROOM QUEEN’S THRONE ROOM
The Mushroom Queen spends much of her time in this 
room. A mottled purple throne covered in bright-red 
mushrooms sits on a dais in the northeastern section of 
the chamber. Sheets of fungus in various hues of red and 
purple with varying degrees of transparency hang from 
the ceiling. As a gesture of solidarity toward the Weft of 
Shadows, she allows the interior of the doors to retain 
the black and purple coloration found in Area 7.
The Mushroom Queen waits upon her throne, even if 
she is alerted to the PCs’ presence through the shriekers’ 
alarm or nearby sounds of combat. She is imperious 
and regards non-plant creatures as her inferiors. 
However, she is impressed by the PCs making it past her 
guardians. She offers to harmlessly remake them if they

--- PAGE 100 ---
98
agree to serve her. Indeed, the Mushroom Queen is true 
to her word, and the process is pain-free for those who 
peacefully submit to her. Of course, she doesn’t expect 
the PCs to agree and attacks when they threaten her or 
move threateningly within 15 feet of her.
The Mushroom Queen uses the statistics of a void 
speaker (see Creature Codex, adding immunity to 
poison, removing the Repelling Word option of the 
Word of the Void action, and replacing cone of cold with 
putrescent faerie circle [see Appendix]). When she feels 
the PCs are threatening her or if they move to attack 
her, she casts putrescent faerie circle to ensnare as many 
of them as possible and continues attempting to sway 
them to her side. She dismisses it if the spell noticeably 
weakens the PCs too quickly, not wanting to outright kill 
potential new minions. If further attempts to convince 
them to join her do not work, she resigns herself to the 
task of killing them and attacks without restraint. The 
mindrot thralls in Area 12 can sense when the queen is 
in danger and arrive in the throne room 1d4 rounds after 
combat starts.
The Mushroom Queen’s dagger attack inflicts iumenta 
pox (see mold zombie in Creature Codex) if a creature 
hit by it fails a DC 15 Constitution saving throw. 
The Mushroom Queen’s iumenta pox requires three 
successful saving throws to cure it, and a creature that 
dies from the disease rises as a mindrot thrall (see Tome 
of Beasts) instead of as a mold zombie.
AREA 11: MUSHROOM QUEEN’S BEDCHAMBER
This simply appointed room contains a plush canopy 
bed made of fungus with transparent drapes, also 
of fungus. A small, wooden desk with a mushroom 
stool beside it sits across from the bed. The desk 
contains parchment, quills, and ink. Several pieces 
of the parchment contain what appear to be various 
iterations of a royal emblem—the Mushroom Queen’s 
attempts at creating her own seal in preparation for her 
establishment as a ruler in the Arbonesse. 
Treasure. A successful DC 15 Intelligence 
(Investigation) check finds a hidden compartment in 
the desk that holds a golden crown set with rubies and 
amethysts worth 150 gp. 
AREA 12: THE POLLUTED POOL
The Mushroom Queen shoved the Enoki Scepter into the 
bottom of this stream-fed, muck-filled pool to keep it 
out of her enemies’ hands and to give it time to recollect 
power. A successful DC 18 Wisdom (Perception) check 
notices the scepter protruding just above the pool’s 
surface. A successful DC 15 Intelligence (Arcana) check 
reveals the scepter has gone dormant, depleted of much 
of its magic. The Mushroom Queen used most of it in the 
creation of the Fungal Citadel.
After the Mushroom Queen achieved her greatest 
success by creating a pair of mindrot thralls (see Tome 
of Beasts), she placed them in this chamber to guard 
the weakened scepter. The creatures tried in vain to 
communicate their desire for closer proximity to her to 
protect her better, but she refused. She feels the scepter 
needs more protection than see does, and she feels it 
would be a sign of weakness if she entertained guests 
with a retinue of guards at her side. The creatures are 
linked to her though and make their way to her throne 
room (Area 10) if they sense she is in distress. They are 
also linked to the scepter and can sense when a creature 
other than the Mushroom Queen touches it.
Development. A successful DC 20 Intelligence 
(Arcana or Nature) check reveals a process for 
destroying the depleted scepter. A character who spends 
an hour studying the scepter has advantage on this 
check. To destroy the scepter, it must be exposed to 
12 continual hours of sunlight and be dealt at least 10 
radiant damage by the end of each hour. Destroying the 
scepter in this way causes the Fungal Citadel to dissolve 
and cures all creatures of any diseases inflicted by the 
Mushroom Queen.
Concluding the Adventure
If the Enoki Scepter is not destroyed, it goes into a period 
of dormancy for 50 years. The Arbonesse elves prefer 
to sequester the relic away to avoid possible misuse 
again. A successful DC 20 Charisma (Persuasion) check 
convinces the elves to give the scepter to the PCs for 
study or eventual destruction. The afflicted villages are 
quarantined, and the infected die within a week as their 
fungus-covered bodies root themselves where they 
perish. The elves burn the affected villages to the ground 
after they are certain the disease no longer spreads.
If the PCs destroy the scepter, the villagers slowly 
return to normal and all signs of the Mushroom Queen’s 
influence vanish within 24 hours.
If the PCs defeat the Mushroom Queen, the Arbonesse 
elves regard them favorably and allow them to travel the 
forest unchallenged. If the PCs also destroy the scepter 
and restore the living victims, the River Court names the 
PCs friends of the Arbonesse, and the PCs may be able to 
parlay this into a future favor from the court.
The Weft of Shadows becomes directly aware of the 
PCs’ involvement, and it sends shadowy minions to 
harass or destroy its new enemies.
If the PCs bring a fungal growth from the Enoki 
Scepter to Daesanderena, she gives them the gem of 
brightness, as promised.

--- PAGE 101 ---
99
RUN LIKE HELL
This adventure takes place in and near the village 
of Rosedale (on the Rothenian Plain), south of the 
Wormwood, but can be adapted to any location near 
populations of centaurs and humans—and evil gnomes. 
Adventure Background
The infernal gnomes of Niemheim look to expand their 
influence into the lands neighboring their holdings at 
their hellish masters’ demands. While the gnomes have 
enacted several plans to claim the Rothenian Plain, 
they have made few inroads. One gnome cult, the 
Hellfire Runners, believes the physical power possessed 
by centaurs is the root of the problem. In the cultists’ 
minds, the ability to best the centaurs physically will 
ensure free access to the plain. They devised a ritual to 
create a distorted version of the centaur, fusing gnome 
and hell hound. The ritual is imperfect and, after a few 
initial successes, resulted in the deaths of several of the 
cult’s gnomes.
The cultists and surviving infernal centaurs moved 
onto the Rothenian Plain to test their might against the 
centaurs. They discovered they could pick off stragglers 
without much resistance, but they were overmatched by 
centaur tribes. Seeing the need for more of their number 
and reasoning that they were only a few tweaks away 
from perfecting the ritual, the gnomes decided to enact 
the ritual on the unwitting, who would serve as sacrifices 
rather than failed experiments. As fortune would have 
it, they found an abandoned and forgotten complex just 
south of the Wormwood from which they could kidnap 
and transform victims. Beyond the goal of consistently 
producing infernal centaurs, they also wish to merge 
larger humanoids with nightmares to create even more 
powerful versions.
The gnomes decided their failed attempts at ritually 
creating these creatures could serve the secondary 
purpose of promoting some mayhem, where they could 
foment dissent between centaurs and humans. Thus, 
on a recent morning, a farmer in the village of Rosedale 
made a gruesome discovery when he went to feed his 
horses: a corpse stitched together from a man’s torso and 
a headless horse.
Adventure Hooks
The PCs might simply be passing through Rosedale on 
their way through the Rothenian Plain just as the tragedy 
is discovered. They may be investigating suspected cult 
activity, especially involving newly established villages 
seeking permanency. Or they might be investigating 
a rash of kidnappings among the Kariv and various 
settlements. Whatever the case, the PCs are on-hand 
shortly after the farmer stumbles on the grisly scene.
Investigation in Rosedale
Darash Ilvari found the body and immediately left the 
stables to lose his breakfast. He locked the building 
and refused to let anyone in. When asked, he gave 
the excuse that one of the horses had taken ill, and he 
didn’t want to stress the animal. Unfortunately, rumors 
quickly spread that something horrible happened in the 
stables, and a crowd gathered. The villagers, including 
Darash, are fearful of entering and require a successful 
DC 14 Charisma (Persuasion) check to be coaxed into 
the stable to identify the human. The villagers don’t 
recognize the victim and confirm the man is not an 
inhabitant of Rosedale.
A successful DC 12 Wisdom (Medicine) check notes 
the surgical skill used to sew the bodies together. A 
successful DC 14 Intelligence (Investigation) or Wisdom 
(Perception) check finds small runes etched among the 
stitching, and a successful DC 14 Intelligence (Arcana) 
check realizes the runes are Infernal.
If the PCs ask the villagers about who or what might 
have done this, many point to centaur bandits and 
discuss a wandering clan they have spotted near Rosedale 
recently. The villagers also worriedly suggest that one of 
their number who left the village to trade has been gone 
longer than expected.
A successful DC 16 Wisdom (Survival) check notices 
numerous unusual, dog-like tracks beside smaller 
humanoid tracks behind the stable, which the PCs can 
follow to the gnomes’ lair. Failing that, the PCs can travel 
to the centaur clan’s most recent location as indicated by 
the villagers.
For 6th-Level Characters

--- PAGE 102 ---
100
3
6
5
7
8
1
4
N
h
2
Local Centaurs
The PCs either track down the Khorval Clan based on 
the information they received in Rosedale, or the centaur 
clan intercepts the PCs as they follow the trail left by the 
gnomes. The clan has discovered additional grotesque 
corpses: one created from the torso of one human and the 
lower half of a different human sewn together and one 
with a horse’s head attached to a human’s lower body.
The clan’s centaur chieftain (see Creature Codex), 
Gelban, and eight centaurs comprise the small nomadic 
clan. The awful discovery has them all on edge, and 
they are suspicious of the PCs. The discovery of four 
horseshoes next to the bodies gives them the false 
impression that “two-legs” from a nearby village are 
responsible for leaving the macabre homunculi. Many of 
them assume the PCs are there to complete the work.
A successful DC 12 Charisma (Persuasion) check 
convinces the centaurs of the PCs’ good intentions, 
and they stand down. They lead the PCs to where they 
found the corpses. Convinced the PCs were not involved, 
the more hot-headed centaurs among the clan wish to 
retaliate against Rosedale’s populace, who they presume 
perpetrated this awful incident. A successful DC 10 
Charisma (Persuasion) check sways Gelban to allow 
the PCs a chance to fully investigate the situation and 
exonerate Rosedale.
A successful DC 12 Wisdom (Medicine) check notes 
the surgical skill used to sew the bodies together and 
discovers the corpse is composed of two different 
humans. If the PCs inspected the body in Rosedale, this 
check also discerns that the lower half of the composite 
human is a match for the upper body found in Rosedale, 
while the upper body of the composite human and lower 
body of the reverse centaur are a match. If the PCs spent 
time talking to the villagers, they also realize the second 
human fits the description the villagers of Rosedale 
gave the PCs of the trader who left a few days ago. A 
successful DC 14 Intelligence (Investigation) or Wisdom 
(Perception) check finds small runes etched among the

--- PAGE 103 ---
101
stitching similar to the runes on the body in the stable, 
and a successful DC 14 Intelligence (Arcana) check 
recognizes the runes as Infernal.
A successful DC 14 Wisdom (Survival) check notices 
unusual dog-like tracks beside smaller humanoid 
tracks near the bodies, which the PCs can follow to the 
gnomes’ lair. 
The Infernal Ruin (Upper Level)
Wanderers of the Rothenian Plain give this compound a 
wide berth, owing to its terrible history and the general 
feeling of unease they get when approaching it. The 
site served as the temple to a now-forgotten deity. The 
ancient cult that once occupied the site was responsible 
for sacrificing hundreds of victims to a dread god before 
an order of knights razed the temple and slew every 
cultist they could find. Seemingly led here by their 
devil patron, the Hellfire Runners cult quickly made 
themselves at home in the abandoned temple. From this 
base of operations, they test their might against centaurs 
roaming the plain and kidnap wanderers for their 
horrific rituals.
AREA 1: TETHERED HORSES
Two riding horses and two warhorses are tied to a 
central post in the western portion of this adjoined 
chamber. The horses have the poisoned condition from 
sedatives the gnomes gave them to keep them quiet until 
they are needed for a transformation ritual. If untied, 
the horses slowly and quietly trot out of the area. A 
successful DC 10 Wisdom (Animal Handling) check 
guides the horses to the north, where they go unnoticed 
by the gnomes in the watchtower (Area 8). If the PCs 
release the horses, award them experience as if they had 
defeated the horses in combat. 
AREA 2: THE WAY DOWN
A gnomish knife cultist (see Creature Codex) guards 
access to the library in Area 3 and the nightmares in 
Area 9. If the watchtower’s alarm has been raised, he 
summons a demon to attack intruders while attempting 
to attack from hiding.
AREA 3: LIBRARY
A haphazard array of books and parchment scrawled 
with diagrams fill this room. A successful DC 12 
Intelligence (Arcana) check realizes that nearly all of 
the material in the library details a specific ritual: one 
which draws power from the Eleven Hells to merge two 
creatures into a composite creature considerably more 
powerful than the component creatures.
Treasure. Two books stand out. Ancient and dusty, 
they list the previous occupants’ prayers to the cult’s 
ancient deity, whose name is obscured in both texts 
despite all other words remaining intact. The gnomes 
intend to suss out the deity’s identity to determine 
if it is aligned with their interests—but only after 
they perfect their transformation ritual. Despite the 
omitted name, the books are worth 500 gp in total to an 
interested collector.
AREA 4: FURROWED LOBBY
After their partial success in creating a centaur-like 
monstrosity rendered the creature insane, the gnomes 
dragged it through this room into Area 5. Deep furrows 
scar the floor of the room, leading to the door, evidence 
of the creature’s struggle as the gnomes dragged it. A 
successful DC 12 Wisdom (Perception) check hears 
labored breathing from the other side of the door.
Barred and Locked Door. The door to Area 5 
is barred from this side and locked. Removing the 
iron rod barring the door requires no effort while a 
successful DC 13 Dexterity (thieves’ tools) check picks 
the lock.
AREA 5: CRAZED CENTAUR
The gnomes successfully created an infernal 
human‑horse hybrid from a kidnapped farmer and 
his horse, but their creation went insane. The gnomes 
managed to partially subdue the beast and drag it here 
where they could leave it and decide later on its fate. 
While they hope they can convince the centaur to 
maraud outside the compound, they realize they may 
have to put the beast down.
In its madness, the centaur (with no pike or 
longbow) can make a melee weapon attack as a bonus 
action on its turn.
AREA 6: DISPOSAL LAKE
The gnomes dump the bodies of their failed rituals 
in this lake, mostly to despoil the stream feeding the 
nearby plain. The lake currently holds the remains of 
two hell hounds, one riding horse, two gnomes, and 
three humans.
STATUS IN MIDGARD
If you are using Status (see Midgard Worldbook) and 
the PCs defeat the cult, the PCs gain +1 to their Status 
with the inhabitants of the Rothenian Plains that are 
not aligned with Niemheim and −2 to their Status 
with the gnomes of Niemheim and their allies. These 
modifiers stack with similar Status modifiers the PCs 
may possess.

--- PAGE 104 ---
102
N
h
14
13
9
10
11
12
Treasure. A successful DC 16 Intelligence 
(Investigation) check discovers a jeweled gold ring worth 
500 gp accidentally dumped with one of the bodies.
AREA 7: DEBRIS-STREWN ROOM
The gnomes left this room empty to divert suspicion away 
from the concealed trapdoor (labeled F on the map).
Stuck and Hidden Trapdoor. A successful DC 14 
Intelligence (Investigation) check locates the trapdoor. 
Alternatively, the PCs can discover the trapdoor by 
spending 20 minutes, clearing the rubble from the room. 
The trapdoor, which the gnomes do not use, has warped 
in place. A successful DC 14 Strength (Athletics) check 
pulls open the stuck trapdoor.
that sounds throughout the compound, while the other 
descends the tower wall to rouse their compatriots and 
attack intruders.
If the PCs manage to sneak into the compound, a 
successful DC 10 Strength (Athletics) check allows a 
PC to climb to the top of the watchtower to reach the 
gnomes. A successful dispel magic (DC 13) cast on the bell 
destroys the alarm. On a failed check, the alarm sounds. A 
silence spell or similar magic also quiets the alarm.
The Butchery (Lower Level)
The lower section of the cultists’ temple remained 
relatively untouched when the main complex fell to the 
knights. It holds remnants of the previous inhabitants’ 
activities in the form of rusted sacrificial knives and blood 
stains turned rust‑colored with the passage of time. 
Illumination. Unless otherwise noted, all areas are 
bathed in darkness.
AREA 8: WATCHTOWER
Four gnome cult fanatics inhabit the remains of this 
tall tower. Two of them keep watch in all directions 
while the other two relax or sleep below. If the watchers 
notice the PCs approaching, one of them rings a 
clapperless bell, triggering a magical, audible alarm

--- PAGE 105 ---
103
AREA 9: NIGHTMARE HALL
Two nightmares pace this relatively confined room, 
awaiting their turn at transformation at the behest of the 
cult’s patron. The creatures have no fear of dying as they 
serve their infernal patron loyally. However, they don’t 
intend to sacrifice themselves to the PCs for the cult’s 
sake and use Ethereal Stride to flee when reduced to 13 
or fewer hit points.
AREA 10: SURGICAL PREP
The gnomes perform surgery in this chamber. A couple 
of hooks hold headless torsos of victims who proved 
unviable for their rituals. A tray has a neatly arranged 
set of cutting implements, including an array of 
razor‑sharp scalpels—one of which is a thirsting scalpel 
(see Appendix).
Two poisoned and unconscious commoners are 
propped up against a wall, sedated similarly to the horses 
in Area 1. The PCs can easily awaken them, and though 
a bit groggy, they both act thankful at being rescued. 
However, one of the commoners volunteered for the 
transformation ritual as a way to escape a dull life and is 
actually disappointed at the PCs’ intrusion. A successful 
DC 9 Wisdom (Insight) check uncovers this fact.
AREA 11: SUBTERRANEAN TEMPLE
A spree demon (see Creature Codex), drawn to the 
carnage, claims this tunnel. An eroded effigy to the deity 
to which the temple was formerly sanctified holds its 
attention. A successful DC 12 Wisdom (Perception) 
check hears its strange mutterings before the demon 
notices the PCs.
Maddening Statue. The effigy’s worn state makes 
it difficult to discern any details about the deity, but 
the PCs can make out the remains of whorls and eyes 
carved all over the statue. If a PC spends more than 1 
round inspecting the statue, the PC must succeed on 
a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw or be afflicted with a 
short-term madness for 1 minute. If an affected PC hits 
an unaffected creature, that creature must also succeed 
on a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw or be afflicted with a 
short-term madness for 1 minute. A creature so afflicted 
with a short-term madness can repeat the saving throw 
at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself 
on a success.
A PC that spends 2 rounds inspecting the statue 
and succeeds on a DC 13 Intelligence (Religion) check 
realizes the deity is an ancient god of insanity.
AREA 12: STOREROOM
The gnomes keep barrels of potable water and crates of 
dry rations here. Black candles, chalk, salt, and other 
minor ritual implements sit on shelves around the room. 
AREA 13: INFERNAL ANTECHAMBER
The gnomes anoint themselves here for the ritual before 
entering the ritual room (Area 14). The landing beyond 
the first flight of stairs leading north out of this chamber 
holds jars of oil that smell of brimstone. The trapdoor in 
the ceiling (labeled C on the map) leads to Area 7 above 
and is easily noticeable from here. A successful DC 14 
Strength check forces open the stuck trapdoor.
A bearded devil contracted by the gnomes keeps watch 
here and prevents unauthorized creatures from entering 
the ritual room. If the alarm sounds (see Area 8 above), 
the devil attempts to hide, so it can ambush intruders.
Locked Door. The ritual room is locked when not in 
use or when the gnomes are forced to use it as a redoubt 
(which is the case if the alarm sounds in Area 8). A 
successful DC 16 Dexterity (thieves’ tools) check picks 
the lock.
AREA 14: RITUAL ROOM
Blood smears the floor and walls of this chamber, which 
is lit by black candles and glowing runes inscribed in the 
floor. Regardless of whether the two gnome cult fanatics 
and two infernal centaurs (see Appendix) have been 
alerted to the PCs’ presence, they occupy this chamber. If 
they haven’t been alerted, they are in the middle of their 
ritual, wherein they have begun to graft the upper body 
of a human to the headless body of a nightmare. The 
illumination is dim light thanks to the ritual candles. If 
they have been alerted, they snuff the candles and await 
creatures attempting to force entry into the chamber.
Concluding the Adventure
Assuming the PCs defeat the gnomes, the situation settles 
down to normalcy in Rosedale and among the Khorval 
Clan. If the PCs established amicable relationships with 
the villagers of Rosedale and the Khorval centaurs, they 
have the opportunity to broker a deal between the two 
factions. The PCs are also welcome among the centaur 
clan and within the village, which could benefit the PCs 
in future excursions to the Rothenian Plain.
Regardless of the gnomes’ fate, details of the ritual 
have spread beyond their cohort. If the PCs wish to end 
the gnomes’ diabolical tampering with nature, they may 
decide to search for, and attempt to destroy, existing 
copies of the ritual.
The gnome cult’s fiendish sponsor is aware of the PCs’ 
intervention in their schemes. Depending on their ire 
with the meddlers and their level of patience, they enact 
schemes against the troublemaking PCs at some point in 
the future.

--- PAGE 106 ---
104
ILL-MET BY MOONLIGHT
This adventure takes place in and around Keep Aunun 
(in the Grand Duchy of Dornig), in the nearby eastern 
Arbonesse Forest, and in the Shadow Realm, but it can 
be adapted to any location where the fey hold influence. 
Adventure Background
A gateway to the Shadow Realm, lost during the Black 
Sorceress’s Revolt, has returned to Midgard. The gateway 
reveals a fragment of the shadow road and its missing 
watchhouse, once used by the Courts of the Shadow Fey. 
This reappearance is not yet well known in the courts, 
and certain individuals are taking advantage of its return.
The esteemed Lady Madaera D’Faucon fell into 
disfavor with the queen due to her transmutation 
research, too similar to the twisted magic of Her 
Majesty’s husband and rival, the Moonlit King. 
Akyishigal, a demon lord, heard of the conflict 
and sought to sow further discontent between the 
queen and her lady. Akyshigal informed Madaera 
of the watchhouse and the vulnerable mortals living 
nearby. Madaera fled the courts in anger to continue her 
research on kidnapped Dornitian citizens living near 
Keep Aunun.
Adventure Hooks
Keep Aunun is the seat of a domain in the Grand Duchy 
of Dornig that borders the eastern Arbonesse Forest. 
It is well known for its farmland, cattle, and horses. 
The keep itself marks the western edge of the small 
town of approximately 2,000 citizens. The residents are 
distressed by nighttime kidnappings that have resulted 
in over a dozen people missing. Lord Roth Cereck 
Aunun, ruler of the area, has offered a reward of 2,500 
gp to anyone who can end the abductions.
Keep Aunun
Entering town, the adventurers hear the angry voices of 
a mob of humans and halflings surrounding a shadow 
fey dressed in stylish clothing. If the PCs investigate, 
they learn that shadow fey (see Tome of Beasts) were 
seen in the area just prior to the kidnappings. The mob 
is convinced that the fey, Aspera, is hiding something. 
Aspera insists that she is not involved and appears amused 
by the furious mortals.
If the PCs intervene, the crowd can be dispersed with a 
successful DC 15 Charisma (Persuasion) check. Grateful, 
Aspera then requests to speak with the PCs privately and 
cryptically offers to share information if the PCs meet 
her in the forest at midnight. If the PCs do not intervene, 
Aspera turns invisible and escapes. She later sends Coban, 
a stryx (see Tome of Beasts), with this meeting request.
The Shadow Road
If the PCs approach the forest at midnight, Aspera and 
Coban emerge from the trees to greet them. Aspera 
informs the party that she is an agent of the Queen of 
Night and Magic (see Tome of Beasts) and has been sent 
to investigate a rogue member of the court who acts 
against Her Majesty’s wishes. Aspera shares her suspicion 
that, although Lady Madaera is likely behind these 
kidnappings, another faction of the courts may be acting 
against the queen in this matter. Aspera explains calmly 
that, together with the PCs, they may be able to rescue 
the mortals. She offers to show the party how to enter 
the Shadow Realm and find the watchhouse while she 
continues her investigation in the mortal realm. Aspera 
suggests sending the stryx, Coban, along to report to her 
if help is needed. Although smiling, Aspera’s manner is 
cool. A successful DC 20 Wisdom (Insight) check reveals 
that she does not care about the mortals.
If the PCs agree, Aspera describes a hidden shadow 
road southwest of Keep Aunun, accessible only under 
moonlight. She informs them that blood must be spilled 
to open the road: each individual must take 5 damage, 
whether self-inflicted or otherwise. Upon this action, the 
environment changes—the moon and stars fade away, and 
a broken road leads west into the forest. In the distance, a 
structure looms, indistinct in the mist. A DC 10 Wisdom 
(Perception or Survival) check reveals trails of blood that 
can be followed to the structure’s southeast entrance.
Unknown to the PCs, Aspera is not interested in 
investigating the mortal realm and follows the PCs at a 
distance. She waits outside for Coban to report on their 
progress, hoping they will clear the building, so she may 
investigate the watchhouse safely after their probable 
deaths. Although the stryx is a serious investigator, he 
For 7th-Level Characters

--- PAGE 107 ---
105
babbles jovially and feigns clumsiness. Coban monitors 
the party and feigns cowardice when the party is 
confronted by danger. 
Watchhouse Exterior
The watchhouse lies just to the west of the shadow 
road. The building is a forbidding structure of black 
stone with two clear glass domes on the roof. The 
southeast and northeast entrances are visible. There are 
no windows. A character searching the exterior walls 
for secret doors can discover a door along the north 
wall that leads directly to the gardens (Area 11) with a 
successful DC 25 Wisdom (Perception) check. 
Illumination. All rooms in the watchhouse are in 
darkness except where noted.
Sounds. Sounds have difficulty penetrating the 
watchhouse’s black stone. Perception checks based on 
sound have disadvantage.
Players will be able to take a short rest in most rooms 
since the creatures do not leave their posts unless 
indicated in the room descriptions.
AREA 1: SOUTHEAST ENTRANCE
Two short stairs lead to doors separated by the southeast 
corner of the watchhouse. A statue of a shadow fey 
woman, carved of black obsidian, stands between the 
stairs, its arms broken off. A successful DC 10 Intelligence 
(Religion) check identifies the statue as the Queen of 
Night and Magic. The eyes of the statue appear to follow 
the adventurers as they move. A successful DC 16 
Dexterity (thieves’ tools) check will unlock either door.
AREA 2: NORTHEAST ENTRANCE
The northeast stairs lead to a set of massive double 
doors that are barred from the inside. The doors can 
be forced open with a successful DC 20 Strength 
(Athletics) check, which reveals a small vestibule with 
similarly barred doors that lead into the keep.
AREA 3: SOUTHEAST ENTRANCE INTERIOR
A pressure plate just inside the doors triggers a poison 
darts trap. Setting off the trap summons the two 
shadow fey guardians (see Tome of Beasts) to Area 6.
AREA 4: LIBRARY
Largely empty bookshelves are inset into the southern 
walls. A rug of smothering sits in the middle of the 
room, and it attacks the first non-fiend or non-shadow 
fey creature that steps on it. A shadow fey guardian (see 
Tome of Beasts) rests in the room unless called to Area 
6 by the party’s actions. A successful DC 15 Wisdom 
Intelligence (Investigation) check finds an spell scroll of 
call shadow mastiff (see Appendix) on the shelves.
AREA 5: BEDROOM
Cockroaches, centipedes, and other insects crawl over the 
rotting beds. A spawn of Akyishigal (see Tome of Beasts) 
and two roachling lords (see Tome of Beasts) inhabit 
this room and will defend it to their deaths. PCs see an 
unholy symbol displayed on a dresser. A successful DC 
15 Intelligence (History) or Wisdom (Religion) check 
reveals the symbol belongs to Akyishigal, the Demon 
Lord of Cockroaches (see Tome of Beasts).
AREA 6: INTERIOR HALLWAY
Two shadow fey guardians (see Tome of Beasts) are 
summoned to this location (from Area 4 and Area 10) 
if the adventurers set off the trap in Area 3 or engaged 
the gnarljak in Area 9. They will immediately attack 
intruders. The two doors to the east and the door to the 
west are locked. A successful DC 15 Dexterity (thieves’ 
tools) check will unlock each door. 
AREA 7: SCRYING CHAMBER
A large basin of clear water, radiating divination magic, 
is set into the floor. If studied, an image of the shadow 
road outside the watchhouse appears as if using the 
scrying spell. If a character further examines the image, 
they experience the sensor moving as if they were 
running down the shadow road. This experience is 
draining; a character who views the image must succeed 
on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or receive one 
level of exhaustion. 
AREA 8: ARMORY
Largely empty weapon racks and armor stands fill the 
room. A breastplate and shield of dark metal sit on one 
stand. A massive ornamental boomerang is the only 
weapon that remains on a rack. 
AREA 9: THE NORTHEAST ENTRANCE INTERIOR 
A rusted gnarljak (see Tome of Beasts, changing AC to 14, 
the Gnaw action to allow only one additional attack against 
prone opponents, and CR to 5) is chained to the floor next 
to the inner set of doors. It cannot move farther than 10 
feet from this position. Engaging the gnarljak summons 
the two shadow fey guardians to Area 6. 
STATUS IN MIDGARD
If you are using Status (see Midgard Worldbook) 
and the PCs end Madaera’s research and report the 
Akyishigal symbol to Aspera, the PCs gain +1 to their 
Status with the Queen of Night and Magic and her 
allies within the Court of the Shadow Fey. If the PCs 
save the citizens, they gain +1 to their Status with 
residents of Dornig. These modifiers stack with similar 
Status modifiers the PCs may possess.

--- PAGE 108 ---
106
1
13
2
3
4
5
6
7
10
11
12
13
8
9
AREA 10: ZENO’S APOTHECARY
A shadow fey guardian (see Tome of Beasts) is found 
in this room unless earlier called to Area 6. A large 
immovable cabinet covers the northern wall with drawers 
of herbs harvested from the adjacent garden. The cabinet 
radiates transmutation magic, and each drawer has 
multiple compartments and false bottoms. 
A successful DC 15 Intelligence (Investigation) 
check reveals a random alchemical item: a dose of 
poison, alchemist’s fire, or acid. The first search takes 
15 minutes. Each successful successive search by an 
individual reveals another item, but it takes twice as 
long as the previous search. An audible magical alarm 
sounds throughout the keep after three successful 
searches in a single day. The cabinet can be used as an 
herbalism or alchemical kit.

--- PAGE 109 ---
107
AREA 11: GARDENS
The twilight sky of the Shadow Realm is visible through 
the two large glass domes, illuminating the overgrown 
foliage and pond of steaming black waters that heat 
the room. A chimera guards this area, attacking any 
creature that enters without Madaera. An eala (see 
Tome of Beasts) swims lazily, calm unless attacked first. 
If any creature steps within 5 feet of the locked western 
doors, an alarm spell silently notifies Madaera, and 
the eala grows audibly agitated. The eala attacks the 
following round unless a successful DC 15 Wisdom 
(Animal Handling) check is made, allowing the 
adventurers to pass into Area 12 without violence. A 
successful DC 10 Dexterity (thieves’ tools) 
check will unlock the door to Area 12. 
AREA 12: LABORATORY
At the far wall, a nobly dressed 
woman stands at a table covered 
gruesomely with various bloody 
creature limbs. Lady Madaera 
(see Appendix) wears a brooch 
of shielding, and if notified by an 
alarm, she prepares by casting 
mage armor and false life. Madaera 
begins combat by commanding 
a hybrid manbear (polar bear, 
adding darkvision 60 ft. and 
changing size to Medium and 
type to monstrosity), the result of 
her latest experiment, to attack the 
party. Overconfident, Madaera 
attempts to incapacitate the 
party, so she can use them in her 
research later. Madaera will cast 
polymorph and telekinesis on 
party members when possible. 
The door to Area 13 is locked with 
arcane lock. A successful DC 25 
Dexterity (thieves’ tools) check 
is required to pick the lock, 
or a successful DC 25 Strength 
(Athletics) check is needed to 
break the door open. Otherwise, the 
party must destroy the door to free 
the prisoners. 
AREA 13: PRISON
This room, once used for storage, 
currently imprisons nine terrified 
humanoids: five humans and four halflings 
survived. Upon being released from their 
bonds, they are excited and relieved to return 
to their homes on the outskirts of Keep Aunun.
Concluding the Adventure
As the PCs exit the watchhouse, they are stopped by a 
pleasantly surprised Aspera. If the PCs end Madaera’s 
research and report the Akyishigal symbol to Aspera, 
they will have the gratitude of the queen—and Akyishigal 
will hold a grudge against the party. If the PCs saved the 
citizens, they will receive the gratitude of the duke and 
his people, plus the reward money.

--- PAGE 110 ---
108
OUT OF PHASE
This adventure takes place in the hills near Lake Jingar 
(on the Rothenian Plain), but it can be adapted to any 
location set in the hills or plains. 
Adventure Background
A solar eclipse approaches, and a fiend plots to give 
the Moonlit King a foothold in Midgard. Recently, 
a meteorite fell in the hills near Lake Jingar on the 
Rothenian Plain. A group of druids from across the plain 
made a pilgrimage to the crash site to investigate the 
auspicious omen. Seeing an opportunity to curry favor 
with the Moonlit King, a lunar devil named Palus stalked 
the assembly and began to twist the minds of the fearful 
druids. Under the fiend’s influence, the druids banded 
together to form a lunar druid circle, intent on drawing 
in the moon’s power. The druids erected a compound 
around the crash site and now unknowingly prepare a 
ritual that will tear open a gate to the Shadow Realm. 
Adventure Hooks
Here are some ways to involve PCs in this adventure:
•	 Several druids from across the Rothenian Plain traveled 
to investigate the meteorite, and none have returned. 
One of the affected communities asks the PCs to locate 
their missing druid (see more information about these 
druids in Playing the Druids).
•	 A traveling merchant named Zara Suresh claims a 
powerful item was stolen from her private collection. She 
has sent messages to major settlements across the plain, 
asking capable adventurers to meet her in the hills by 
Lake Jingar for more details.
•	 Since the flaming rock fell from the sky, the hills in 
the region around Lake Jingar have begun to grow 
unnaturally dark, as if the sun’s light doesn’t fully 
reach the ground. Locals are concerned and are in 
need of a group willing to investigate the cause.
•	 One of the wise hermits of the plain seeks out the PCs. 
The hermit reports ominous dreams of evil growing 
in the hills by Lake Jingar. The hermit warns that if 
the PCs do not stop it, the region will come under 
attack. The hermit does not have any more specific 
information but pleads for the PCs to investigate.
Growing Dark 
This adventure begins as the PCs arrive at the hills 
surrounding Lake Jingar. They encounter a spirited 
trader named Zara, who has a curious story to tell. After 
speaking with her, the PCs must head into unnatural 
darkness and locate the mysterious compound among 
the hills. 
WHEN BEARS FLY
As the PCs near the hills, read the following:
Though there is no smell of smoke, the sky over the area 
around Lake Jingar is dark and hazy. A small encampment 
sits just outside this perimeter of darkness, consisting of two 
wooden trade wagons on either side of a circle of red tents. 
This camp belongs to Zara Suresh, a human who 
brokers trades across the plains. Zara is a self-proclaimed 
“acquisitions expert” and prides herself on being able to 
locate any item (for an appropriate fee, of course). Zara 
also keeps a personal collection of acquired curiosities, 
and one of these was stolen from her a couple of days ago.
Zara welcomes travelers into her camp, eager to hire 
anyone capable enough to solve her problem. Zara invites 
them to sit around the fire as she explains her plight:
“Two days ago, I awoke to the sound of something tearing 
apart one of the wagons. As I rushed out of my tent, I saw 
the thief making off with my mirror. I know this sounds 
odd, but… the thief was a massive, flying bear.” 
Zara is telling the truth. She witnessed a bear, 
accompanied by a swarm of owls, carry off her prized 
mirror. After the shock had passed, Zara discovered her 
mercenary guards were dead, their skin blistered by some 
kind of spell. She rallied the rest of her group as fast as she 
could and pursued the flying thieves. Even after they lost 
sight of the bear, the caravan continued onward, hoping to 
find a clue to their quarry’s destination. They eventually ran 
into this curtain of darkness and decided to put out the call 
for a better-armed group to investigate further.
Lyra Ironhide (see Playing the Druids), in the form of 
a bear, and a swarm of conjured birds were the culprits. 
A lunar devil (see Tome of Beasts) was also present 
For 7th-Level Characters

--- PAGE 111 ---
109
during the robbery, but it stayed 
hidden from Zara. 
If asked further questions 
about her encounter, Zara knows 
the following:
•	 The bear was massive, unlike any 
naturally occurring species in the 
region. It did not have wings, but 
it was still able to fly. Both the 
bear and the birds seemed more 
intelligent than average animals. 
•	 Zara does not know the full 
properties of the phase mirror 
(see Appendix) stolen from her. 
However, she knows that it is a 
rare and ancient object that is used 
in rituals as an arcane focus. She 
spent a lot of money and effort 
liberating it from the ruins of a 
wizard’s tower. 
•	 Whatever the darkness effect is, it 
is getting worse. The terrain has 
continued to darken over the past 
few hours, and the radius seems to 
be slowly expanding.
•	 Her hired guards died from some 
type of magical burn. They were 
covered in blisters, but no flame 
source was evident, and no objects 
were damaged. 
Zara answers all the questions 
she can before asking the PCs to 
recover her mirror. If her mirror 
is returned to her unharmed, she 
offers them 6,000 gp worth of gems 
and art objects. If the PCs seem 
hesitant, Zara also impresses that if 
they accept she will owe them a favor. Zara has many 
connections across Midgard, and a favor from her is 
undoubtedly worth more than any sum of gold.
If the PCs accept the job, she is happy to offer them the 
hospitality of her camp.
ZARA’S CAMP
If the PCs decide to rest at Zara’s camp before 
investigating further, Zara introduces them to her crew. 
Here is a list of her companions:
•	 A fiery male kobold named Thim Thom serves as Zara’s 
appraiser. Thim Thom possesses an uncanny ability to 
appraise any object correctly. He has served Zara loyally 
since she first offered him a job, freeing him from a hard 
and dull life in Zobeck’s mines. 
•	 An elven sorcerer named Tessadora serves as Zara’s 
arcane specialist. Tessadora is a brooding woman, but 
she has an incredible talent for predicting if trouble is 
nearby. Tessadora is very distracted by the shadows 
beyond camp and doesn’t engage with newcomers. 
•	 A gigantic man named Olin handles the heavy lifting 
around camp (and strikes a highly intimidating figure). 
He is so large, it is hard to identify if he is the largest 
human in existence or the tiniest giant. Olin also has a 
slight tinge of blue to his otherwise pale skin. If asked 
directly about his heritage, Olin cracks jokes and diverts 
the conversation to other topics. 
•	 Zara’s 7-year-old son, Amir, also travels with the band. 
He is bright and has a penchant for liberating small 
treasures from people’s pockets.

--- PAGE 112 ---
110
•	 Zara has hired a Rothenian centaur named Androos 
to guide the group as they travel around the plains. 
Androos stands apart from the others, but he is 
approachable. He knows a great deal about the terrain 
and politics of the Rothenian Plain. 
	 Zara and her crew are accustomed to a nomadic 
lifestyle, so they are well supplied and can offer the PCs 
any standard equipment needed. 
	 After the theft, the band is down to only two wagons, 
which are now reserved for equipment. They can offer 
extra bedrolls or tents if the PCs wish to rest before 
seeking out the mirror.
TRAVEL TO THE COMPOUND
The hills surrounding the compound are not difficult to 
traverse, but finding the exact location of the compound 
may prove a challenge. 
For every half hour the PCs spend searching the hills, 
they must make a DC 15 Wisdom (Survival) check. On 
a success, they locate the compound. On a failure, they 
must search for another half hour. After 2 hours have 
passed, the PCs automatically locate the compound. 
If you would like to increase the difficulty of the 
search, roll a d20 and consult the Dark Hills Encounters 
table (see below) every 10 minutes they travel. 
Compound of the Moon
The Compound of the Moon surrounds the crashed 
meteor site. The druids have taken advantage of the 
natural cliffs and crater ridges, using their magic to 
shape the formations into an ideal structure. Most of 
the compound is open to the sky, allowing the druids to 
continually bathe in the moonlight that fuels their power. 
APPROACHING THE COMPOUND
The hills bottom out here, creating a small valley. A 
structure formed of raised black stone sits at the center 
of the valley. The growing atmosphere of darkness hangs 
most heavily over the structure, which appears to be 
faintly glowing. 
The druids crafted their compound here, so they could 
spot any intruders coming from a healthy distance. They 
built a watchtower on the compound, and PCs that don’t 
conceal their approach are spotted long before they reach 
their destination. 
SPOTTED
If the PCs are detected approaching the compound, the 
watching druid alerts Palus to the unwelcome visitors. 
The lunar devil flies from the compound to attack the 
PCs. Due to the darkness, a successful DC 15 Wisdom 
(Perception) check is required to spot the devil before 
it descends. When Palus is reduced to half its hit points 
or fewer, it spends its next actions retreating to the 
compound at full speed. 
If the devil successfully flees, it warns Lyra to start the 
ritual immediately, and the 1-hour timer begins (see 
Ritual Countdown).
Devil Tactics. When attacking the PCs, the devil 
employs cunning and deception. If it successfully sneaks 
up on the group, it cloaks itself with greater invisibility 
before attacking. The devil uses a wall of ice to separate 
the PCs from each other and swoops through the skies to 
rain down attacks from above.
d20
LOCATION AND TACTICS
1–14
No encounter occurs.
15
The PCs are ambushed. A group of five bandits and one bandit captain spring from a concealed trench and attack the 
PCs. PCs with a passive Perception of 15 or higher are not surprised by the attack.
16
Loud shrieks echo around the PCs as five swarms of bats descend upon them. The creatures are confused and hostile 
due to the unnatural shift in the atmosphere. A successful DC 12 Wisdom (Animal Handling) check diverts the ire of 
the swarms.
17
The PCs encounter a pair of centaurs, also searching the landscape. The centaurs ask if the PCs have learned anything 
about what is causing the darkness. The centaurs are not interested in sharing their names or anything they have 
discovered in their search. If the PCs act hostile toward them, they flee. 
18
The PCs spot a hilltop swarming with hundreds of fireflies. If they push through the surging swarm, they find a stone of 
good luck lying in the tall grass. 
19
The PCs hear a pained cry and snarling just over the next hill. If they investigate, they see three dire wolves circling in 
on a wounded deer. If the PCs attract any attention, the deer escapes, and the hungry wolves turn to attack the PCs.
20
A will-o’-wisp appears one hilltop over. It attempts to lead the PCs to a hidden cave carved into a hillside. If they step 
inside, they are attacked by the ten shadows that dwell within.
DARK HILLS ENCOUNTERS

--- PAGE 113 ---
111
PLAYING THE DRUIDS
The newly formed lunar druid circle is deeply misguided 
by the devil’s influence. These druids of different races 
and cultures are all assembled at the meteorite crash site 
to investigate the strange omen. Most possessed the best 
of intentions, aiming to discover what they could before 
reporting back to each of their communities with news.
Palus manipulated their concern and persuaded 
them this crash is a sign that the natural balance of the 
cosmos is in peril. Palus listened to the fears of each 
druid and encouraged paranoid connections between 
troubling current events. Ultimately, Palus convinced 
them a new kind of druid was necessary to restore the 
cosmic balance. The devil offered the druids a way to 
harness the power of the moon and stars to become 
champions that guard against evils to come. 
The devil then told the druids of a powerful object 
called the phase mirror and explained that one such 
mirror must be acquired to harness the real power of the 
cosmic web. The frightened druids eagerly listened and 
swore themselves to the devil’s plot.
In addition to their leader Lyra, six druids form the 
lunar circle. Here is a list of the druids and from where 
around the Rothenian Plain they originally hail: 
•	 Enosso, a human from Misto Kolis. 
•	 Irinna, a centaur of Clan Morav. 
•	 Murook, a trollkin hermit.
•	 Flick, a ravenfolk from Vidim.
•	 Anders, a winterfolk halfling from Domovogrod.
•	 Brigita, a human from the Kariv Sergin family.
Hardship is common amongst the factions of the 
plains, and each of these druids has allowed their 
people’s misfortune to weigh heavily upon them. This 
empathy has made them all easy prey for the devil.
Each druid arrived at the meteorite site with their 
traveling equipment, which they still use. Each druid 
wears a piece of the meteorite around their neck to serve 
as a grim reminder of the circle’s purpose. 
LYRA IRONHIDE
A bearfolk druid named Lyra Ironhide (see Appendix) 
was unanimously elected the leader of this lunar circle. 
Lyra hails from the northern kingdom of Bjeornheim but 
has spent the past decade wandering Midgard, looking 
for purpose. She happened to be traveling through the 
Rothenian Plain when she saw the meteorite fall to 
Midgard. She, like the other druids, viewed the fall as a 
dark omen and went to investigate. 
As Palus initially observed the group of druids, it 
determined that Lyra’s strength and charisma made 
her the most suitable vehicle for its purposes. The 
devil concentrated its corruption most heavily on Lyra, 
whispering that it, like herself, was a creature of the 
moon, and they must work together to keep balance. 
Lyra absorbed the fiend’s lies and played a hearty role 
rallying the other druids behind its plan. With the devil’s 
instruction, she led the others to officially form the lunar 
circle, to build the compound, and to steal the phase 
mirror. She now prepares the circle to conduct the ritual 
of power, which is scheduled to conclude right as the 
eclipse occurs. 
Lyra does not view her actions as evil, and she truly 
believes this ritual is necessary to protect the balance of the 
cosmos. She is sharp, well-spoken, and possesses a magnetic 
personality that draws others to her. Lyra gives frequent 
sermons on the natural world, the power of the stars, and 
the role druids must play in preserving the natural order of 
the cosmos. 
RITUAL COUNTDOWN
The moment the characters enter the compound, the 
ritual of opening a gate to the Shadow Realm begins. 
In 1 hour, the eclipse occurs, and the ritual is complete. 
The PCs have only that hour to stop the ritual, or they, 
and the entire compound, phase to the Shadow Realm.
	 Over the hour, the compound begins to change. 
As part of the preparations, Lyra has woven a series of 
magical constellations through the stone walls of the 
compound. The constellations glow gradually brighter 
as the phase mirror absorbs more energy. The change is 
gradual, but the intensity of the glow alerts the PCs to 
how much more time they have. 
	 To stop the ritual, the PCs must either destroy the 
phase mirror or remove it from the compound grounds. 
One of these goals must be achieved before the hour is 
up, or the PCs fail.
COMPOUND FEATURES
The compound is formed from roughhewn rock, and 
it contains very few buildings. The dark sky above and 
the glowing patterns adorning the walls create a surreal 
atmosphere within the compound walls. 
Ceilings. Where the compound is not open to the sky, 
the roofs are made of shaped stone and stand 10 feet tall.
Doors. Unless specified otherwise, doors of the 
compound are composed of thin wood with no locks. 
STATUS IN MIDGARD
If you are using Status (see Midgard Worldbook) and 
the PCs stop the cultists from finishing their ritual, 
the PCs gain +1 to their Status with residents of the 
Rothenian Plain. These modifiers stack with similar 
Status modifiers the PCs may possess.

--- PAGE 114 ---
112
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
•
N
h
Druids. The druids of Lyra’s lunar circle use the 
statistics of a druid, except they have moonbeam 
prepared in place of animal messenger.
Lighting. Moonlight infuses the very rock of the 
compound; all areas are considered to be in dim light.
Moonlit Night. Regardless of whether it is day or night 
when the PCs enter the region, the compound is cast in 
moonlight, allowing the druids and the lunar devil to use 
certain traits and features.
AREA 1: LUNAR GATES
Depictions of phases of the moon adorn opalescent gates 
set into the rock. There are no handles on this door.
These gates are the only visible entrance to the 
compound. The only way to open the gates is to touch 
them with the moonbeam spell (or other moon-related 
spell or feature, at your discretion). The druids rarely use 
these gates, but they employ them as an extra defense 
against outsiders. A successful DC 14 Intelligence (Arcana) 
check determines what magic is necessary to open the 
door. A druid or a creature with some association to the 
moon, such as a cleric who worships a deity of the moon, 
has advantage on this check. 
If the PCs don’t have the means to open the gates, the 
exterior rock walls of the compound are 20 feet high 
and can be scaled with a successful DC 14 Strength 
(Athletics) check. 
AREA 2: COURTYARD
The ground is marred by a large crater. A small boulder 
rests at the center of the shattered depression. It glints 
silver in the dim light. Several roughhewn buildings 
surround the crash site. 
This area is the compound’s central courtyard. It is 
also the crash site of the meteorite that initially drew 
the druids here.
A successful DC 15 Intelligence (Nature) check 
determines the meteorite is composed of a type of rock 
not found on Midgard. 
The buildings surrounding the crater are the barracks 
(Area 3), the owl roost (Area 4), and the outhouse 
(Area 5). 
Treasure. The meteorite is composed of soft rock 
and is easy to break apart. A palm-sized chunk of the 
extraterrestrial rock is worth 50 gp to the right buyer. 
With 1 hour of work, the meteorite can be reduced to 
twenty palm-sized chunks.

--- PAGE 115 ---
113
AREA 3: BARRACKS
This large room contains cots and trunks. Thick pelts 
cover the walls and floor. An open skylight is cut into the 
ceiling, bathing everything in a dim glow. 
There are currently two druids in this room. If the PCs 
were spotted on the way to the compound, these druids 
are awake and attack intruders immediately. Otherwise, 
the druids are asleep. Any noise causes them to awake 
and attack the PCs. 
Treasure. If the PCs search the trunks, they find 200 
gp worth of precious stones. They also find two potions of 
animal friendship.
AREA 4: OWL ROOST
Unlike the others, this small building is made of wood. 
It has several circular holes cut into its walls, and loud 
shrieks come from inside. 
This building is a roost built for the nocturnal 
birds the druids have befriended. A successful DC 14 
Intelligence (Nature) check correctly identifies the 
purpose of this building. 
Three giant owls are currently roosting here. If the 
PCs open the door to the roost, the owls are startled. A 
successful DC 15 Wisdom (Animal Handling) check 
calms the owls. Otherwise, they attack. 
Treasure. The birds who roost here have stashed a few 
shiny baubles in their nests. Searching the roost reveals 
15 gp, a silver cuff (worth 25 gp), and two amethyst 
stones (worth 100 gp each).
AREA 5: OUTHOUSE
A ripe stench hangs around this building. A crescent 
moon is carved into its wooden door. 
This building is the compound’s outhouse. Inside is a 
deep hole filled with refuse.
AREA 6: WATCHTOWER
This cube-shaped building rests at the highest point of the 
compound walls. Large windows look out toward each 
cardinal direction. 
This building is the watchtower the druids have 
constructed to increase security. A steep stone path leads 
up to it.
A druid is posted here at all times to keep an eye 
out for any trouble approaching the compound. The 
druids keep watch in 6-hour shifts, relieving each other 
as needed. The area around the compound is flat in all 
directions, allowing the watcher to see a great distance 
around the compound. 
A mounted telescope sits beside a well-padded chair in 
the center of this room. The telescope has been modified 
to spot a wide variety of threats. 
Treasure. The telescope is fitted with a gem of seeing 
instead of a standard glass lens.
AREA 7: BACK GATE
This gate can only be seen from inside the compound. 
On the outside, it is carved to look like part of the 
natural rock wall. The druids use this gate to leave the 
compound quickly. 
Locating this gate from outside the compound is 
extremely difficult. A successful DC 17 Intelligence 
(Investigation) check reveals the presence of the gate. 
Dwarves and creatures with proficiency with mason’s 
tools have advantage on this check.
AREA 8: PATH OF CONTEMPLATION
A soft blue glow dimly lights this long hallway. The glow 
comes from a pair of shut opalescent doors on the north 
end of the hall. A line of painted tiles leads from the 
southern entry to the doors.
This hallway is the path of contemplation, a 
meditative exercise for the druids to partake of before 
visiting the chapel. It doubles as a deadly trap to any 
who do not traverse it correctly. 
The Trapped Path. To open the doors on the far side 
of the hallway, the PCs must walk on the correct tiles 
in the correct order. Once one PC has correctly walked 
the path, the double doors open. If a PC steps on the 
wrong tile, each creature in the room must make a DC 
15 Constitution saving throw, taking 11 (2d10) radiant 
damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a 
successful one as it is wreathed in ghostly flames. The 
PCs must travel from tile to tile in the correct sequence 
to open the doors. If an incorrect tile is pressed, all tiles 
in the room cease to glow, the trap activates, and the 
path resets.
A spell such as detect magic, or other effect that can 
sense magic, reveals an abjuration aura around the tiles. 
Infused with moonlight, the magic of the tiles can’t be 
dispelled until the darkness covering the compound 
disperses and sunlight shines on the hills again.
There are eight painted tiles in the hall. Each tile is 
painted to represent a different phase of the moon, and 
the tiles are not laid down in the correct order. The 
PCs must correctly identify what the tiles represent, 
then step on the tiles in the correct order. Each 5-foot

--- PAGE 116 ---
114
tile is 1 inch tall and melded to the floor. Applying any 
pressure to a tile activates it, causing its paint to glow 
faintly. The tiles are laid out in a path down the center 
of the hallway as follows (the first tile is closest to the 
southern entry, and the last tile is closest to the sealed 
glowing doors in the northern wall):
1.	 A tile painted completely white, which represents 
the full moon.
2.	 A tile with only the southwestern corner painted 
white with the rest black, which represents a 
waning crescent moon.
3.	 A tile with the eastern half painted white with the 
rest black, which represents a first quarter moon.
4.	 A tile painted completely black, which represents a 
new moon.	
5.	 A tile with the western half painted white with the 
rest black, which represents a last quarter moon.
6.	 A tile with the southwestern corner painted black 
with the rest white, which represents a waxing 
gibbous moon.
7.	 A tile with only the southeastern corner painted 
white with the rest black, which represents a 
waxing crescent moon.
8.	 A tile with the southeastern corner painted black 
with the rest white, which represents a waning 
gibbous moon.
The correct tile sequence is as follows: 
	                   4, 7, 3, 6, 1, 8, 5, 2
The PCs can walk around the hall without stepping 
on the tiles, but they must step on the tiles in the correct 
order to open the door in the northern wall. If they are 
struggling to figure out the puzzle, consider allowing a 
DC 12 Intelligence (Nature) check to give a hint that the 
tiles resemble different phases of the moon. 
AREA 9: CHAPEL
Neat rows of wooden chairs are lined up in this room. 
They face a small stone podium, which holds a piece of 
shimmering rock. 
This room serves as a chapel for the compound. The 
circle frequently meets here to listen to Lyra’s sermons. 
The shimmering rock is a palm-sized chunk of the 
meteorite in Area 2.
A druid sweeps this room while its dire wolf 
companion watches. When the characters enter, the druid 
and the wolf are startled and attack immediately. 
AREA 10: ALTAR ROOM
A bizarre statue sits in the corner of this room. The stone 
is carved into the likeness of a winged creature with many 
circular rows of pointed teeth. Dried flowers and unlit 
candles sit at the statue’s feet. 
This statue depicts the lunar devil that has been 
manipulating the minds of Lyra and the other druids. 
The flowers and candles are offerings. 
AREA 11: STORAGE CLOSET
This closet holds cleaning supplies, candles, additional 
chairs, and other useful items. 
AREA 12: RELIQUARY WORKSHOP
Seven alcoves are set into the room’s stone walls, and 
each holds a golden orb adorned with symbols. A large 
worktable in the center of the room is covered with 
diagrams and metal scraps. Another set of opal doors 
leads out of this room to the west, and a wooden door sits 
in the northern wall.
This is Lyra’s workshop where she builds magical orbs. 
These orbs represent the foundation of her teachings: that 
the patterns of the heavens shape an individual’s power. 
There are seven orbs here, and each grants a temporary 
gift to any creature that activates it. Energy diverted from 
the phase mirror powers these orbs. Once used three 
times, an orb’s energy fades, and it becomes a nonmagical 
metal orb. 
A creature that examines the diagrams on the table can 
make a DC 14 Intelligence (Nature) check. On a success, 
the creature successfully identifies the diagrams as star 
charts, mapping eight different constellations. Lyra has 
not yet finished the eighth orb.
If a PC approaches an orb, read the following:
The orb whirs to life and begins to glow with a gentle light. 
Tiny holes arranged in patterns appear on its surface, 
sparkling like stars with the orb’s inner light. 
While touching the orb, a PC can use their action to 
activate the orb and gain a boon. These boons last for 24 
hours. Once a PC has received a boon, that PC can’t gain 
the benefit of any other orbs until 24 hours have passed. 
Each orb depicts one of the following constellations:
The Warrior. This constellation depicts a champion in 
combat. Activating this orb gives the PC a +1 bonus to 
attack and damage rolls made with melee weapons.
The Hunter. This constellation depicts a hunter stalking 
its prey. Activating this orb gives the PC a +1 bonus to 
attack and damage rolls made with ranged weapons.

--- PAGE 117 ---
115
The Mage. This constellation depicts a spellcaster 
launching an arcane attack. Activating this orb causes 
the PC’s spells to deal additional damage. When the PC 
casts a spell that deals damage, the spell deals an extra 1d6 
radiant damage. 
The Rogue. This constellation depicts a rogue 
brandishing a twisted dagger. Activating this orb gives the 
PC the ability to cast the invisibility spell once before the 
boon ends. Casting this spell doesn’t expend a spell slot, if 
the PC has spell slots. 
The Diplomat. This constellation depicts an orator 
speaking before a crowd. Activating this orb gives the PC 
the ability to cast the suggestion spell (save DC 15) once 
before the boon ends. Casting this spell doesn’t expend a 
spell slot, if the PC has spell slots.
The Beast. This constellation depicts a powerful beast 
charging across the sky. Activating this orb increases the 
PC’s speed by 10 feet.
The Sage. This constellation depicts a scholar penning 
a tome. Activating this orb allows the PC to add its 
proficiency bonus to any Intelligence-based skill checks 
it makes before the boon ends.
AREA 13: LYRA’S CHAMBER
This quaint chamber holds a single cot and a desk piled 
high with parchment. A woven tapestry depicting the 
night sky hangs on one wall. A skylight is cut into the 
ceiling of this chamber.
This is Lyra’s private chamber. The papers on the desk 
are a collection of sermons and lectures she is composing, 
among which is a key that explains the various effects of 
the orbs in Area 12. If the PCs spend at least 1 minute 
searching this room, they discover the compartment 
hidden behind the tapestry of stars. Otherwise, a successful 
DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check notices the edge of the 
wall cavity behind the tapestry. 
Secret Compartment. Lyra has hollowed out a cavity in 
the wall where she keeps her journal. The majority of the 
pages are filled with daily reports and mediocre poems, 
but one passage might be of interest to the PCs:
Sometimes I fear all of this is a grand deception. Palus is 
unlike any fiend I have ever encountered, but it is still a 
devil at day’s end. However, I am so tired of wandering. 
It can’t all be a coincidence, can it? The very stars are 
falling from the sky, and I cannot deny that corruption 
is growing in the world. I must keep the faith; I must be 
strong for the rest. We shall carry this through, and we 
shall succeed.
AREA 14: MIRROR BALCONY
Three druids stand clustered around a giant mirror on 
this stone balcony. The mirror lies face up toward the 
sky. It seems to pull all surrounding light into its surface. 
A towering bearfolk lifts her gaze, and her lips curl into 
a snarl as she bellows, “You are too late to stop us now. 
Perish, agents of chaos!”
This area is the balcony where the phase mirror has 
absorbed energy from the skies over the past few days. 
The two druids and Lyra Ironhide (see Appendix) 
attack the party. When in combat, Lyra prefers to take 
the form of a polar bear, though she takes the form of a 
giant eagle if the PCs decide to pursue Palus in the air 
(see Devil Moon). The druids do whatever they can to 
keep the PCs away from the mirror. 
DEVIL MOON
When combat with the druids begins, Palus joins the 
effort to protect the mirror on initiative count 20 of the 
second round. The devil uses its turn to lift the giant 
mirror and keep it out of the PCs’ reach. To keep the 
ritual active, the mirror must stay within 30 feet of the 
compound at all times (even vertically), forcing Palus to 
fly low above the rocky walls. The devil flies as quickly as 
it can to the courtyard in Area 2, leaving the druids to 
prevent any pursuit. 
If the PCs pursue the devil without first defeating the 
druids, the circle follows close behind, doing everything 
they can to prevent damage to the mirror. 
STOPPING THE RITUAL
The phase mirror in this adventure is tied to the Shadow 
Realm, and Lyra’s lunar circle is tied to it. They are 
taking advantage of the thin veil between worlds created 
by the solar eclipse to transport themselves and the 
entire compound to the Shadow Realm—a feat normally 
outside the scope of the mirror’s magic, but the power of 
the lunar devil and the solar eclipse have strengthened 
the mirror beyond its normal capabilities.
The PCs can stop the ritual by breaking the phase 
mirror or by taking it more than 30 feet away from the 
compound. The PCs have 1 hour from when they enter 
the compound to stop the ritual.
The mirror can be attacked and destroyed (AC 10; hp 
50; vulnerability to bludgeoning damage; immunity to 
slashing, poison, and psychic damage). If the mirror is 
reduced to half its hit points or fewer, it is considered 
“broken,” and the ritual is effectively prevented. The 
broken mirror can be repaired with 1 hour of work by 
a creature with proficiency with tinker’s tools. If the 
mirror is reduced to 0 hit points, it is destroyed with no 
hope of repair.

--- PAGE 118 ---
116
Concluding the Adventure
If the PCs succeed in destroying the mirror or removing 
it from the compound, the ritual is prevented. The haze 
of darkness around the compound disperses in time for 
the PCs to see the solar eclipse pass by harmlessly. 
If Palus still lives, the devil disappears entirely, fleeing 
to its moonlit domain. 
If any of the druids still live, they become despondent, 
believing the world is now truly doomed. They offer no 
further resistance to the PCs, though it will take medical 
care and patience to undo the brainwashing they have 
undergone under the devil’s influence. 
If the PCs return the undamaged mirror to Zara, she 
is delighted and pays them in 
full. If the mirror is damaged 
(but not destroyed), she 
isn’t entirely pleased, but 
she follows through with 
payment. If the mirror is 
completely destroyed, Zara 
is furious. A successful DC 
15 Charisma (Persuasion) 
check convinces Zara 
the PCs’ actions were 
necessary, and she hands 
over 1,000 gp for their 
efforts. Alternatively, if they 
offer Zara the telescope 
with the gem of seeing intact 
from Area 6 or a magical 
orb from Area 12, she 
forgives the destruction of 
the mirror and provides the 
full payment.
Ritual Success. If the 
PCs do not stop the ritual 
in time, a gate to the 
Shadow Realm opens. 
For 24 hours, the entire 
compound becomes a 
bridge between the two planes. Dangerous creatures 
desperate to escape the Shadow Realm begin to pour into 
Midgard. The Moonlit King himself may even break free 
of his prison. The situation is dire, but the specifics are 
up to you.
FURTHER ADVENTURES
If the PCs wish to continue following the threads of this 
story and Palus still lives, you can allow them to track 
Palus to its lair. Or perhaps another druid of the lunar 
circle was not present during this series of events and 
attempts to start rebuilding the circle with another group. 
If the ritual was not prevented, the PCs have to pursue 
some of the darker fey denizens that broke into Midgard.

--- PAGE 119 ---
117
THE WILDING CALL
This adventure takes place in unspecified locations in 
Trollheim and the Vargrike (in the Northlands), though 
likely beginning in or near the burned-out Trollheim 
village of Hoydeholm, but it can easily be adapted to any 
northern region.
Adventure Background
The Pack of the Howling Sun has gained notoriety lately 
as a cult bent on the fiery death of any that cross their 
path. Their raids beyond the borders of the Kingdom of 
the Wolf have left charred bodies and burning villages 
in their wake. Uffi Toothless believes the pack is tied 
to the Children of Surtur, an unusual death cult whose 
members believe self-immolation is the way to convince 
the demonic lord of fire to destroy the world. The 
immediate threat posed by the death cult’s new offshoot 
troubles him, especially as it shows outward aggression 
formerly absent from the cult. He seeks stalwart folks 
who can gain intelligence on the Pack of the Howling 
Sun, such as the group’s size and reach and the extent of 
their ties to the Children of Surtur. Since the Kingdom of 
the Wolf’s inhabitants hunt, capture, or outright kill non-
lupine humanoids, close intelligence gathering is almost 
impossible for Uffi’s scouts and warriors. Anything short 
of powerful illusions to conceal investigators’ identities 
would prove disastrous for any team and reveal Uffi’s 
involvement to the pack leaders, potentially painting a 
target on the old jarl and his people.
A solution to this problem arrived recently in the 
form of Albrus Svendig, an alchemist specializing in 
transmutational serums. He developed a concoction to 
temporarily transform the drinker into a werewolf. Uffi 
hopes a team could use this serum to infiltrate the Pack 
of the Howling Sun and gain the information he seeks.
Unfortunately, the real Albrus Svendig fell prey 
to Greta the Sly, the nightgarm (see Tome of Beasts) 
leading the Pack of the Howling Sun. She spawned a 
falseman to take his place and use his skills to produce 
more “children” for her. Knowing the serum is only 
temporary, Greta commands her werewolves to 
“bless” those worthy to join her pack with permanent 
lycanthropy and feeds the unworthy to her pack. 
Recent Events
A few days ago, a rescue party sent to Hoydeholm after it 
burned to the ground discovered the pack had kidnapped 
survivors. They found no bodies, but they did see several 
sets of werewolf tracks leading out of the village. 
Adventure Hooks
If the PCs rescued the people of Fjellgard in the 
previous The Empty Village chapter or performed 
other services for the jarl’s people in Trollheim, Uffi 
Toothless may send someone to ask them to undertake 
this intelligence-gathering mission. Instead, the PCs 
may know someone in Hoydeholm taken by the Pack of 
the Howling Sun. Or the PCs might have heard about 
Albrus Svendig’s serum independently.
A REQUEST TO GO BEHIND ENEMY LINES
Regardless of the reason for the PCs’ involvement in 
the adventure, they meet Sondre Rasmussen, a high-
ranking official who serves Uffi and who is responsible 
for the safety of the jarl and his people. Sondre introduces 
Albrus Svendig and explains the situation detailed in 
the Adventure Background (except for Albrus’s secrets, 
of which he has no knowledge). He expresses his hopes 
that the PCs can use the alchemist’s serum to discreetly 
investigate the Pack of the Howling Sun and rescue any 
surviving villagers of Hoydeholm. He offers them a reward 
of 1,000 gp on behalf of Uffi Toothless for the dangerous 
undertaking. Assuming the PCs accept the offer, he turns 
things over to Albrus to explain the serum’s effects.
Albrus is a thin, middle-aged human who wears 
simple, woolen clothing with a wool cap pulled down 
to just above his eyebrows. The heavy clothing and cap 
are ostensibly to ward off the cold, but in actuality, the 
clothing covers unnatural features that give away the 
alchemist as a falseman, most notably the tuft of white fur 
sprouting from his forehead. Albrus explains the serum’s 
effects and answers what questions he can about it (see 
The Wilding Serum sidebar). He only has a few doses of 
the serum left and cautions the PCs to not lose or spill the 
serum as it takes months to create a single dose. 
For 7th-Level Characters

--- PAGE 120 ---
118
Once the PCs are satisfied with the information they 
have, Sondre directs them to a clearing where they believe 
werewolf initiates travel, in order to gain admittance into 
the pack. The clearing is 2 days of travel away with the last 
half a day in wolf territory. He cautions the PCs to take the 
serum after they have left Trollheim and well before they 
reach the clearing. Aside from the obvious desire to avoid 
causing a general panic in the streets, he warns them that 
prematurely taking the serum will jeopardize the mission—
as will slaying lycanthropes.
Meeting the Pack
When the PCs arrive at the clearing Sondre mentioned, 
they see signs of a recent bonfire with partially gnawed 
and charred bones of animals and humanoids in the ashes.
Shortly after the PCs arrive, a successful DC 15 
Wisdom (Perception) check notices the stealthy arrival of 
five werewolves. They circle the PCs, taunting the group 
with the nickname “wolflings” and laughing heartily if a 
PC shows signs of aggression at the circling pack. After a 
minute of this appraisal and mocking, the group’s leader, 
Vanya Tongueripper, introduces herself and the rest of 
the group, which consists of Georg Halflingeater, Hilda 
Spleenkeeper, Metti Fleabitten, and One-Eyed Marcus.
Vanya confirms the PCs are there to become part of 
the Pack of the Howling Sun. She expresses her pleasure 
at growing the pack and puts on a show of resignation as 
she explains how all “wolflings” must prove themselves 
before they are welcomed into the pack. Much as they 
would like to swell their numbers, they can’t let in 
“just any mangy cur.” Vanya tells the PCs they have to 
perform two simple tasks, and then Vanya can introduce 
them to Mother for their final induction into the pack.
TO KILL A BEAR
The first job Vanya gives the PCs is to track down and 
kill a bearfolk who has killed several of their members. 
Vanya expects the PCs to bring her a trophy as proof 
of their kill. While she would settle for the bearfolk’s 
head or a paw, she prizes the silvered axe the bearfolk 
wields. Vanya directs the PCs to where the bearfolk 
was last spotted and tells them to return to the clearing 
once they’ve completed their task or to not return at 
all. A successful DC 15 Wisdom (Survival) check finds 
a bearfolk’s trail at the location, and the trail leads to a 
small cottage deep in the forest. 
Esben Frosttuft is a bearfolk chieftain (see Creature 
Codex, changing her battleaxe to a silvered +1 battleaxe). 
She doesn’t take kindly to werewolves snooping around 
her home and is prepared to kill the PCs on sight. If 
a PC attempts to speak with her, she pauses as this is 
unexpected behavior when compared to the beasts she 
fought previously. If the PCs show no sign of aggression, 
she agrees to listen to their tale. If the PCs explain about 
their mission for Uffi Toothless, she admits she prefers 
to directly attack all lycanthropes she encounters, but she 
sees the value in gaining intelligence on an organized foe.
If the conversation turns to the presentation of a 
trophy to Vanya, Esben becomes less agreeable. She 
doesn’t part with a paw, but she agrees to give up her 
axe with a successful DC 16 Charisma (Deception or 
Persuasion) check, provided the PCs promise to return 
her axe to her after they have gathered the information 
they need. She requires the PCs to state their actual 
names and declare an oath to return her axe, a family 
heirloom, to her upon the completion of their mission. 
There is no magic to bind them to the oath, but Esben 
ruins their reputation in the Northlands if they survive 
and fail to return her axe.
If the PCs fail to persuade her to give up her axe, 
Esben offers one of her silvered handaxes and suggests 
fooling Vanya about its power. Esben correctly assumes 
the werewolf won’t test the axe’s power. A successful 
DC 10 Charisma (Deception) check convinces Vanya of 
its authenticity.
THE WILDING SERUM
Albrus Svendig’s wilding serum transforms the 
drinker into a werewolf in hybrid form for 1 week. 
The drinker retains its alignment, hit points, Hit 
Dice, ability to speak, proficiencies, and Intelligence, 
Wisdom, and Charisma scores. The drinker’s statistics 
and capabilities are otherwise replaced by those of 
a werewolf, except the drinker can use its action to 
polymorph only into a wolf-humanoid hybrid or a 
wolf, and not back into its true form. Any equipment 
the drinker is wearing or carrying isn’t transformed, 
and the drinker reverts to its true form if it dies.
The werewolf hybrid’s hands are dexterous enough 
to wield a weapon and attack with that weapon; 
however, a drinker of this serum that uses a weapon 
can’t take the Multiattack action. A spellcaster who 
drinks this serum can cast spells in hybrid form but 
not in wolf form.
While transformed by the wilding serum, the drinker 
can’t be cursed with lycanthropy. The change brought 
about by the serum is unnatural and taxing on the 
body if it is used more than once. Each time a creature 
drinks the serum after the first time, it must make a 
DC 20 Constitution saving throw. On a failure, the 
creature is unaffected by the serum as its body is 
unable to accept the transformation. On a success, the 
creature is transformed by the serum as normal, but it 
has disadvantage on the saving throw if it drinks the 
serum again.

--- PAGE 121 ---
119
Killing Esben carries the risk of removing a potential 
ally in Uffi’s fight against the Children of Surtur and the 
Pack of the Howling Sun, but the PCs are free to provide 
Vanya with a trophy they deem appropriate.
A LITTLE ARSON BETWEEN FRIENDS
Assuming the PCs bring one of the requested trophies or 
convince Vanya that Esben’s handaxe is the silvered axe 
Vanya saw the bearfolk wielding, the werewolf is pleased. 
She informs the PCs they have one more task to fulfill 
before she can accept them into the Pack of the Howling 
Sun. Since her group’s focus is using fire to kill their prey, 
she tasks the “wolflings” with setting fire to a home while 
barring those within the burning building from leaving. 
She directs them to human and trollkin farmsteads they 
can target along the edge of the Kingdom of the Wolf. As 
with the task involving the bearfolk, Vanya expects proof 
of the deed and leaves it up to the PCs to decide what 
proof they bring her.
Considering the PCs’ appearance, negotiating with the 
family owning the farmstead is difficult. A successful DC 
15 Charisma (Deception or Persuasion) check convinces 
the family to listen to the PCs. Of course, the family is 
aghast at the idea of losing their home. If the PCs offer 
the family at least 50 gp in reparations, the family agrees 
to go along with the PCs’ plan. Otherwise, the PCs must 
succeed on a DC 15 Charisma (Deception or Persuasion) 
check to convince the family to work with them. If the 
PCs offer the family at least 25 gp in reparations, the PCs 
have advantage on the check.
If the PCs attack the family, the family is made up of 
two commoners and four humanoids too young and 
small to fight.
Development. Under normal circumstances, Vanya 
exerts the same minimal level of scrutiny over completing 
this task as she did for the PCs’ encounter with Esben 
(to the extent that she watches for the burning building). 
However, if the PCs brought her the handaxe and failed 
the Charisma (Deception) check to fool her about it, she 
indulges her suspicions about the PCs and sends one of 
her cohort with the PCs to verify the deed is done to her 
satisfaction. The PCs can deal with this situation as they 
wish, but if they kill the werewolf, they must succeed on a 
DC 15 Charisma (Deception) check to craft a story about 
the werewolf’s death that will convince Vanya the PCs 
didn’t kill the werewolf.
One of Us. If the PCs return successfully from Vanya’s 
last mission, the werewolf is ecstatic and welcomes them 
to the pack. She gives them directions to the lair of the 
Pack of the Howling Sun and races ahead to inform 
Mother of their success.
The Howling Sun’s Lair
This complex was once a temple devoted to Freyr and 
Freyja, but the priests and other inhabitants could not 
withstand the attacks of marauding werewolves and 
abandoned the temple. Greta the Sly, the pack’s leader 
and a nightgarm called Mother, kept the werewolves 
from gutting the temple, so she could use it as a sort of 
headquarters for the Pack of the Howling Sun. 
AREA 1: THE PATH OF FIRE
A 10-foot path of hot coals and a small stretch of icy 
water stand between the PCs and the complex. If a PC 
refuses to walk across the coals or through the water, 
Vanya, from atop the bridge in Area 3, frowns and 
informs the PC that refusing is an insult to Mother, who 
might be less-inclined to induct the PC into the pack. A 
character that walks across the hot coals must make a DC 
12 Dexterity saving throw, taking 5 (2d4) fire damage on 
a failed save or half as much damage on a successful one. 
A character that walks through the shallow, icy water 
must succeed on a DC 12 Constitution saving throw or 
have their speed halved until they finish a short rest by a 
fire (or other source of prolonged warmth). 
Development. Mother bade the falseman Albrus 
Svendig to return from Trollheim after he gave the serum 
to the PCs. He provided enough identifying information 
about the PCs for her to realize they were the same as 
Vanya’s latest initiates. The morning prior to the PCs’ 
arrival at the compound, Albrus broke Mother’s control 
over him, and he now awaits an opportunity to escape. 
Unfortunately for him, the nightgarm is aware of his 
state of mind.
As the PCs are crossing the hot coals and the icy water, 
Vanya Tongueripper, who was made aware of the situation 
while the PCs were completing their tasks, stands slightly 
above them, just before Area 3, on the remains of a bridge 
and makes a show of congratulating the PCs on their 
success. She then indicates she has a surprise for them 
and produces a bound-and-gagged Albrus Svendig. A 
STATUS IN MIDGARD
If you are using Status (see Midgard Worldbook) and 
the PCs put an end to the Pack of the Howling Sun’s 
schemes and free the villagers, the PCs gain +1 to their 
Status with residents of Trollheim. If the PCs return 
Esben Frosttuft’s axe, they gain +1 to their Status with 
bearfolk of the Northlands, but if they don’t return the 
axe (or if they kill Esben), they suffer −5 to their Status 
with the bearfolk. These modifiers stack with similar 
Status modifiers the PCs may possess.

--- PAGE 122 ---
120
successful DC 12 Charisma (Deception) check conceals a 
PC’s recognition of the man. Regardless of the result, she 
states there is no need for worry because Albrus works for 
them. She then tears the wool cap from his head to reveal 
the tuft of fur jutting from his forehead. Albrus struggles 
in his bonds as Vanya mimics a troubled expression. She 
states Albrus appears to have had second thoughts about 
his loyalties this morning, and he must be punished. She 
removes his gag long enough to tear out his tongue and slit 
his throat. She then cheers, calls out, “More villagers for 
us!” and ducks into Area 3, leaving a pair of werewolves to 
distract the PCs.
AREA 2: THE WELCOMING SPOT
Ordinarily, this is where initiates to the Pack of the 
Howling Sun are welcomed into the group, preceding a 
feast of animals and humanoids prepared by the pack. 
The villagers entrapped in Area 8 were meant to be the 
main course for a feast honoring the latest initiates, but 
events have changed the reception the PCs receive, as 
described in Area 1.
AREA 3: RUINED WEST WING
Two werewolves remain here to kill or stall the PCs. The 
werewolves use their silvered spears in humanoid form 
to attack the serum-infused PCs. The stairs lead from the 
ground level up into Area 3. 
AREA 4: WORG SLEEPING QUARTERS
A roggenwolf (see Creature Codex) and three worgs 
stationed here are aware that the PCs aren’t members 
of the pack, and they attack. The creatures have been 
blessed by the Children of Surtur, and their bite attacks 
are magical. 
AREA 5: CRUMBLING BRIDGE
A 20-foot-high stone bridge crosses between Area 4 and 
Area 6. It has been damaged by previous assaults to the 
compound and is now dangerous for the unwary to cross.
Crumbling Bridge. When a creature walks across the 
center of the bridge, it must make a DC 15 Dexterity 
saving throw. On a failure, the creature falls to the 
ground 20 feet below as part of the bridge gives way. 
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13

--- PAGE 123 ---
121
The creature takes 11 (2d10) bludgeoning damage and 
is knocked prone and buried under the rubble below 
the bridge. The buried target is restrained and unable 
to breathe or stand up. A creature can take an action to 
make a DC 10 Strength (Athletics) check, ending the 
buried state on a success. 
Prevention. A successful DC 15 Intelligence 
(Investigation) or Wisdom (Survival) check finds a set of 
tracks that appear to follow a safe path across the bridge. 
Creatures on the safe path don’t trigger the trap.
AREA 6: EAST LANDING
A werewolf and two winter wolves wait here for any 
intruders. These creatures were among those blessed by 
the Children of Surtur, making their bite attacks magical. 
AREA 7: SLEEPING QUARTERS
Several mats fill this section of the former temple. Most 
of the werewolves sleep here. Vanya keeps her quarters 
in the locked room to the southeast, and she carries the 
key to the room on her. A successful DC 15 Dexterity 
(thieves’ tools) check unlocks the door.
Treasure. The werewolves keep trinkets from their 
various raids. The PCs can gather a total of 100 gp worth 
of jewels, hand-carved statuettes, and other items precious 
to the locals, from the main room. Vanya has a prized 
sapphire worth 500 gp she keeps hidden in her room.
AREA 9: THE HAUNTED HALLS
A wolf spirit swarm (see Tome of Beasts), the remains 
of a wolf pack killed in an over-exuberant bout of arson, 
lurks here. Mother has exerted some control over the 
pack, such that they remain in this location as a surprise 
for intruders. However, their unnerving howls penetrate 
the walls, which forced the bulk of the pack to relocate 
from Area 8 to Area 7. The swarm attacks werewolves 
that aren’t part of Mother’s pack in preference to other 
creatures. The swarm pursues opponents outside, but 
it stops short of reentering the complex through any 
entrance other than the one to this area.
AREA 10: WOLF KENNELS
The werewolf in charge of caring for the Pack of the 
Howling Sun’s wolves resides in this building with a 
group of six wolves. The wolves were recently blessed 
by the Children of Surtur, but the blessing only took 
hold in half the group. Three of the wolves have magical 
bite attacks, revealed by their glowing red fangs. The 
werewolf, an older farmer who was recently conscripted 
into the pack to care for the wolves, flees when reduced 
to 10 or fewer hit points.
AREA 11: THE HONOR GUARD
A pair of werewolves (replacing their spears with 
silvered greatswords and changing AC to 15 [breast 
plate]) protects the nightgarm from intruders.  
AREA 12: MOTHER’S LAIR
Mother, the nightgarm (see Tome of Beasts) leading the 
Pack of the Howling Sun, resides here. If the PCs defeat 
her honor guard, she calls for a truce. If the PCs promise 
to let her go, she shares what she knows about the 
Children of Surtur’s plans (to bring about the end of the 
world with a great flood by summoning their demon lord 
of fire to melt the Northlands). If the PCs agree, she asks 
to leave the building, where she has freedom to move 
should the PCs renege on their promise. Once outside, 
she matter-of-factly tells the PCs that the Children of 
Surtur plan to summon their demon lord by sacrificing 
hundreds of innocents at once in a great pyre that will 
light the world.
If the PCs attack her, she resigns herself to combat, 
but she uses swallowed creatures as hostages to facilitate 
her escape. 
AREA 13: THE TETHERED DRAKE
The Pack of the Howling Sun captured a moon drake 
(see Creature Codex) and chained it within the temple’s 
former stables while Mother decides what to do with the 
creature. She has the devious notion of using the drake to 
remove lycanthropy from werewolf rivals, allowing her 
pack to tear apart the reverted humanoids. However, she 
AREA 8: CAPTURED VILLAGERS
A mated pair of fangs of the great wolf (see Creature 
Codex) stand guard over the captured villagers of 
Hoydeholm, which are being held in the room in the 
southeast. Unlike the werewolves, the worgs do not draw 
the attention of the creature in Area 9 and can tolerate 
the eerie howls emanating from the area. Blessed by the 
Children of Surtur, each fang of the great wolf’s bite 
attack is magical and, when a fang of the great wolf hits a 
target with a bite attack, the attack deals an extra 3 (1d6) 
fire damage.
If the werewolf, Vanya, has survived, she is also here. 
She taunts the PCs by attacking the villagers, hoping 
to help the two worgs by splitting the PCs’ focus. If 
the PCs gave her an axe from their encounter with the 
bearfolk, she uses that weapon in place of the werewolf’s 
spear attack. 
The villagers, a dozen commoners, crammed into the 
enclosure are nearly useless in combat. They each have 
one level of exhaustion due to the lack of nourishment 
and their exposure to the howling that echoes from 
Area 9.

--- PAGE 124 ---
122
has yet to convince the creature to go along 
with her plans.
The magical shackles holding the drake prevent 
it from using its Form of Moonlight reaction. 
Mother (see Area 12) possesses the key to 
the shackles. Otherwise, a successful DC 
20 Strength (Athletics) check breaks them, 
or a successful DC 15 Dexterity (thieves’ 
tools) check picks the lock.
If the PCs free the moon drake, it 
spends 1 round attacking the PCs before 
attempting to flee. If a PC is subjected 
to the moon drake’s bite or Lunarbeam, 
it reverts to its normal form for 1d4 
rounds before the serum transforms it 
back into a werewolf. Since the serum 
does not grant true lycanthrophy, the 
moon drake’s Moonlight Nip has no 
effect on the PCs, a fact that surprises 
the drake and tips it off that the PCs 
aren’t part of the Pack of the Howling 
Sun if they haven’t already convinced it 
they’re friendly. 
A successful DC 15 Charisma 
(Persuasion) check convinces the drake 
the PCs are friendly. A PC who speaks 
in Draconic to the drake has advantage on 
this check. If the PCs convince the drake they are 
friendly and free it, the drake is unwilling to attack the 
creatures in the compound as it just wants to return 
home, but it uses its Moonlight Nip to cure a creature 
suffering from lycanthropy if the PCs request it. Once 
the PCs have cleared the compound through slaying, 
running off, or curing the creatures within it, the drake 
thanks them and flies away in a blur of moonlight.
Concluding the Adventure
If the PCs defeat the nightgarm, what remains of 
the Pack of the Howling Sun becomes considerably 
less‑organized. While individual packs still set fires 
as they once did, their attacks are random and poorly 
coordinated, making them no more dangerous 
than any other pack of werewolves. Uffi dispatches 
warriors to scatter cells and remove the overall threat 
before they can regroup under a new nightgarm. As 
promised, the PCs receive their 1,000 gp reward.
If Mother escapes, she retreats to another werewolf 
pack that serves the Children of Surtur and continues 
where she left off. While she may not have seen 
the PCs’ true forms, she committed their scents to 
memory. She makes regular forays into Trollheim to 
locate the PCs and seeks to gain her revenge through 
their friends and family.
The Children of Surtur notice the loss of their allies, 
but they do not attempt any retributive action. They view 
their werewolf allies as barely controlled partners in their 
plots, and they view the loss of the Pack of the Howling 
Sun as the culling of a weak link in their chain. All the 
same, they are aware of some resistance to their plans, so 
they become alert for more direct attacks against them.
If the PCs return the axe to Esben Frosttuft, she gifts 
three silvered weapons of the PCs’ choice to them. If they 
don’t return the axe to her, she spreads tales about them 
as oathbreakers, hurting their reputation throughout 
most of the Northlands.

--- PAGE 125 ---
123
MOONLIGHT SONATA
This adventure begins and ends in the hamlet of 
Elmshire, in an unspecified region of Midgard (though 
presumably a less urban area on the Rothenian Plain 
or in the Margreve Forest)—and takes a jaunt to the 
Shadow Realm in between—but can easily be adapted to 
any out-of-the-way site.
Adventure Background
After failing to create a bridge to the Shadow Realm (see 
the previous Out of Phase chapter), certain new and 
unseen forces have become intent on freeing the Moonlit 
King—or rather the shard of a previous Moonlit King. 
Alquam, Demon Lord of Night, in fulfillment of a 
bargain with the current Moonlit King in his madness—
and in a circuitous attempt to diminish the machinations 
of Akyishigal, Demon Lord of Cockroaches—seeks 
to free a long-forgotten shard of a previous Moonlit 
King, who should prove a welcome thorn in the side of 
the Queen of Night and Magic. To keep his intentions 
hidden from the queen, for now, Alquam must infiltrate 
a desolate corner of the Shadow Realm by dragging the 
PCs into a world of dreams and his twisting melodies, 
trapping them there, tricked into freeing the shard of the 
Moonlit King imprisoned within, and redirecting the 
scrutiny of the queen and the Roach Lord. 
The heroes must somehow work to break free of the 
strange labyrinth they find themselves in, and each move 
they make unknowingly brings the Moonlit King closer 
to freedom. 
Adventure Hooks
Here are some suggested hooks to involve your PCs in 
this adventure:
•	 If the PCs previously completed the previous Out of 
Phase chapter, they hear rumors that a lunar devil has 
been spotted, visiting a nearby series of Valeran ruins.
•	 While on the road, the PCs meet with a caravan of 
merchants eager to sell their wares and exchange news. 
The merchants recently passed through a small hamlet 
plagued by hauntings and a series of missing persons.
•	 While staying in a city or town, the adventurers hear 
rumors of strange Valeran ruins nearby. No one knows 
more about them except that several people who 
investigated them are now missing.
Part 1: Missing Maiden
This adventure begins as the PCs arrive in the sleepy 
hamlet of Elmshire, a small community with big 
problems. Their arrival interrupts a gathering outside 
the local trading post.
GET A CLUE
As the PCs enter Elmshire, read the following:
Your travels have led you to an isolated hamlet. While 
this settlement is too small to appear on any map, the 
clustered wooden buildings seem friendly enough. As you 
pass a painted sign, “Welcome to Elmshire,” you notice 
that a small crowd has gathered in the central square. 
The group is exchanging heated words, and a few are 
wielding unlit torches.
As the PCs arrive in town, they interrupt a gathering 
of the residents of Elmshire. The group of locals is hotly 
debating whether or not to organize a search party to 
investigate the nearby ruins.
If the PCs get closer to the group, a woman from 
the crowd spots them and waves them over. She is 
an elfmarked gem merchant who introduces herself 
as Silvana Redleaf. She tells the PCs that she and her 
daughter Sophia are traveling merchants who arrived 
STATUS IN MIDGARD
If you are using Status (see Midgard Worldbook) and 
the PCs return with the missing residents, the PCs 
gain +2 to their Status with the residents of Elmshire 
and with any other village within 3 days travel. Their 
Status with the Courts of the Shadow Fey is more 
complicated though, and they gain +1 to their Status, 
or suffer −1, with any given fey depending on the 
actual outcome of this adventure and its fallout in the 
courts and on that particular fey’s alignment with the 
Moonlit King. These modifiers stack with similar Status 
modifiers the PCs may possess.
For 8th-Level Characters

--- PAGE 126 ---
124

--- PAGE 127 ---
125
in town a few days ago. They were planning on staying 
in Elmshire a few days before moving along, but then 
Sophia went missing along with some other villagers. 
Silvana proclaims to be frustrated with the slow action of 
the others and wants to hire the PCs to find her daughter:
“Well, it’s a good thing you got here! You all look capable. 
At least more so than the rest of these backwater fools. 
All the trouble started with that strange music a few 
nights ago, and no one is doing a damn thing to get to the 
bottom of it. My daughter is missing, and I will pay you 
good money to find her.”
If the PCs ask more questions of Silvana or the rest of 
the villagers, here is what they can learn:
•	 Two nights ago, villagers heard strange music coming 
from the nearby Valeran ruins. The music has 
continued to play each night since and always starts 
around midnight. Nothing like this has ever happened 
in Elmshire before.
•	 Several people have gone to investigate the source 
of the music, and none of them have returned. The 
missing people are an elderly halfling trapper named 
Wilhelm, a human teenage boy named Reed, an 
elfmarked farmer named Marjorie, and Marjorie’s 
prized truffle pig Snuffles.
•	 The villagers have investigated the ruins during the 
day, but they found no trace of the missing villagers. 
There were no clues to the music’s source either, just 
the empty ruins that have always been there.
Silvana claims her daughter is among the missing 
people who investigated the ruins, though this is not 
true. Silvana is a servant to the demon lord Alquam and 
planted to lure the adventurers to the ruins. The other 
villagers aren’t familiar with Silvana, but since she seems 
so distraught, they are not suspicious of her.
Silvana offers to pay the PCs in precious stones and 
jewelry if they can find and return her daughter to 
her. She can reward gemstones equal to 1,000 gp and 
promises to also gift the PCs a magic ring from her 
collection if her daughter is brought back alive. Silvana 
has no intention of paying this reward, so she offers 
more if the PCs insist on haggling.
ELMSHIRE
Elmshire is a tiny community too small to appear 
on any map. The residents of Elmshire have bonded 
together to carve out a patch of safety from the 
surrounding wilderness.
Population. Around 40.
Government. None. Elmshire has escaped the notice 
of any local lords interested in collecting taxes.
Defenses. Most residents of Elmshire possess basic 
fighting skills and are capable of driving off and hunting 
beasts. In the event of greater danger, the hamlet would 
most likely be abandoned.
Notable Locations. The only public building in town 
is a trading post called Gil’s Goods, which doubles 
as a meeting place for the residents and has basic 
adventuring gear for sale.
Part 2: Music of the Night
In this portion of the adventure, the PCs head to the 
ruins and discover a strange trapdoor. Descending 
through the door leads them into a series of bizarre 
rooms conjured by Alquam, Demon Lord of Night. 
RIDDLE OF THE RUINS
If the PCs approach the ruins during the day, they find 
nothing of interest. As the villagers reported, the ruins 
are an empty collection of partially caved-in stone 
rooms, overgrown with brush. The place was likely a 
small stone castle or manor house. There are no tracks or 
clues to indicate what has happened.
If the PCs approach the ruins at night, read or 
paraphrase the following:
As you draw nearer to the elven ruins, you begin to hear 
ghostly whispers of music. The lilting tune is melancholic, 
discordant, and altogether otherworldly. The structure 
itself is just as described, a broken collection of stone 
walls and foundations whose purpose has long since 
become unidentifiable. 
Searching the ruins at night is an entirely different 
experience than searching them by day. Examining 
the ruins does not reveal any tracks or clues as to what 
happened to the missing villagers. Any character who 
declares they search inside the crumbling ruins however 
finds an old trapdoor. The haunting music comes from 
somewhere below this door.

--- PAGE 128 ---
126
FINDING THE MUSICIAN
Once your PCs open the trapdoor, read or paraphrase 
the following:
The creaking trapdoor opens to reveal an earthen cellar. 
Moldering remains of smashed barrels and crates are the 
only objects left in the space. A bloated wooden door is set 
in the northern wall. The whining melody is louder with 
the trapdoor open, but the source is clearly beyond the 
next door.
This cellar is the beginning point of the ruins and the 
anchor point for Alquam’s nightmarish construction. 
The ruins don’t have a stable shape. They are a series 
of rooms designed to keep the adventurers inside long 
enough to hear the entire piece of night music, currently 
being played by Alquam. Once the whole of the sonata 
has been played, a portal opens to the Shadow Realm. 
NAVIGATING THE RUINS
Each time the PCs open a door, they conjure one of the 
following rooms. If the PCs return to investigate the 
trapdoor that led them into the ruins, they discover that 
the trapdoor opens into one of the following rooms. 
Once a room has been selected, opening and closing 
the door again does not again change the previously 
determined room.
	 It is recommended that your players encounter 
three rooms before the final confrontation, but you can 
adjust this number as you see fit. Roll or choose on the 
Conjured Rooms table below to generate the rooms the 
PCs find once they move beyond the first cellar door.
CONJURED ROOMS 
d6
Room
d6
Room
1
Graveyard
4
Laboratory
2
Greenhouse
5
Portrait Hall
3
Hall of Mirrors
6
Toy Workshop
CONSIDERING THE COURTS
For GMs who have run Courts of the Shadow Fey or 
who are thinking about running it, you might review 
the events of this adventure and think, “But how does 
this fit with the Moonlit King as he’s presented there?” 
or “But I thought he was waiting in the...”—right, no 
spoilers. However, these are reasonable questions, so 
let’s address them. 
“What if we’ve already encountered the Moonlit 
King?” Then you know that he is unhinged and a shade 
of his former self. The character in this adventure is but 
a portion of the Moonlit King’s being—a memory of a 
past Moonlit King. Would releasing it strengthen His 
Grace back at the courts? Is his imprisonment here part 
of what allows him to manifest again and again or be 
replaced when killed by subsuming any who attempt to 
take his place? The king’s situation here is intentionally 
ambiguous, and unless you’re purposefully looking to 
continue the story told in Courts of the Shadow Fey, the 
king should not recognize or remember the PCs, and 
truly, this aspect of the Moonlit King likely never met the 
PCs. The GM should tailor this shard’s role to that which 
best compliments the conclusions of the past adventure. 
Here, the Moonlit King is a fragment of the whole, 
and his defeat might destroy him forever or keep him 
fragmented and deluded.
“What if we haven’t played Courts of the Shadow 
Fey yet?” In this case, if you haven’t run Courts of the 
Shadow Fey but are considering doing so, then you 
might use this encounter to foreshadow the later stages 
of that adventure to the PCs or to provide them some 
key information that has no value until they’re deep 
within the intrigues of the Shadow Court. This encounter 
might serve to reinforce the king’s splintered state and 
offer them leverage in their activities while reminding 
them that defeating the Moonlit King, rather than 
bargaining with him, is not possible, since a portion 
of his essential being survives here. This option is 
complicated as well by the chance the group kills the 
king here. In this case, the GM needs to decide, “Does 
this shard of the previous Moonlit King’s death add to 
or subtract from the king’s overall madness, and how 
will it impact the situation in the Shadow Realm?” The 
easiest course of action is that the death of the shard 
here weakens the current king’s form in the Tower of the 
Moon but also gives him memories of the encounter, 
which makes engaging him in Courts of the Shadow Fey 
a more nuanced encounter when the PCs discover the 
current king there.
“Wait, we killed him before, and now he’s gone, or one 
of our old friends, or a demon lord of filth!” And in this 
situation, the spirit of the Moonlit King can be released. 
Doing so probably makes whoever is currently the 
Moonlit King a bit offput as they experience memories 
from the old king. The current king remembers the 
outcome of this encounter and might send agents to 
waylay the PCs, whether out of spite, appreciation, or 
curiosity, depending on the outcome. He would now 
also remember his previous death, should the PCs kill 
this aspect, and any encounter where he engages with 
the PCs should be spent taunting those who previously 
injured him and mocking them for their efforts with 
descriptions of their failings during the last battle.

--- PAGE 129 ---
127
GRAVEYARD
The door opens to a square courtyard, surrounded 
by stone walls on all sides. Far above, you can see the 
swirling stars of the night sky. There are several mossy 
gravestones and a closed sarcophagus scattered around 
the overgrown grounds.
As the PCs enter the room, skeletons begin to dig 
their way out from the gravesites. It takes the skeletons 
3 rounds to dig themselves out of their graves, so this 
is not meant to be a serious combat challenge, just 
terrifying to behold. If a skeleton is destroyed, another 
skeleton starts to dig its way out of the vacant grave.
The PCs must find the trapdoor inside the only 
sarcophagus (AC 18; 75 hp; immunity to poison and 
psychic damage) in the graveyard to exit this room. 
A successful DC 15 Strength (Athletics) check pushes 
open the sarcophagus’s marble lid. Opening the lid or 
destroying the sarcophagus reveals the trapdoor, leading 
to the next room.
GREENHOUSE
The door opens to a large domed chamber. Black mist 
sluggishly curls outside, pressing against the glass that 
forms the ceiling. Lush plants and thick vines cover the 
floor and walls.
This room is a neglected greenhouse. The vines have 
grown thick over the walls to conceal the exit door. 
Chopping through the plants or otherwise removing the 
vines reveals the door. 
If the glass ceiling or walls are damaged in any way, 
the black mist begins to pour into the room. The mist 
smells like rot but is harmless. Allowing the mist to fill 
the confines of the chamber slowly is meant to scare the 
PCs, not harm them. 
HALL OF MIRRORS
Hundreds of eyes stare at you as you open the door. 
Reflections of yourself bounce back at you from the walls, 
floor, and ceiling of this disorienting space.
The room is made of mirrors. Characters who smash 
the mirrors or search the walls by touch discover a 
loose panel. Removing the panel reveals a door hidden 
behind it. 
LABORATORY
The door opens to a chamber crammed with worktables 
and shelving. Every surface is cluttered with brightly 
colored bottles, papers, and other items common to a 
wizard’s study. Hanging from one corner of the ceiling 
is a large golden cage with a cramped humanoid figure 
stuffed inside.
The figure inside the cage is a realistic human dummy. 
If the cage is opened and the dummy removed, the 
cage lifts upward, and a portion of the stone wall drops 
to reveal a door. If weight is placed back in the cage, it 
sinks once again, and the portion of the wall slides back 
to cover the door.	
The bottles in this room are all empty, and every piece 
of paper in the room is blank.
PORTRAIT HALL
The door opens to a long hallway with another door 
at the very end. The walls are crammed full of dusty 
portraits depicting people.
Characters who examine the portraits or have a 
passive Perception of at least 18 notice the portraits 
depict familiar people. The faces portray many of the 
villagers the PCs encountered in Elmshire and aged 
versions of themselves.
The portraits can be removed from the wall, but they 
are dusty and worthless.
TOY WORKSHOP
The door opens to a workshop crammed with toys. 
Shelves stuffed full of stuffed animals, puppets, and 
carved dolls line the walls. At the center of the room is 
a worktable with a hyper-realistic dollhouse, complete 
with a lawn and painted front door.
The workshop has a pristine collection of toys. The 
dollhouse in the center of the room is the key to exiting. 
By opening the doll house’s front door, a character 
causes a door to appear in the room suddenly. Closing 
the dollhouse door causes the exit to disappear.
ATMOSPHERIC SUGGESTION
If possible, it is recommended that you play a 
piece of actual music for your players during this 
section. Finding creepy orchestral music to play in 
the background while your PCs explore this ghostly 
construction of Alquam will ramp up the tension. 
Searching online for “atmospheric gothic music” 
yields plenty of results.
Classical music also works well. In particular, check 
out Edvard Grieg’s Piano Concerto in A Minor as well 
as the first movement of Ludwig van Beethoven’s 
Moonlight Sonata.

--- PAGE 130 ---
128
THE FINAL ROOM
Once the adventurers reach the final room, read or 
paraphrase the following:
The door opens to a dark chapel with a soaring vaulted 
ceiling. Black tapestries adorn the walls, and dripping 
red candles cast eerie shadows on pillars carved like 
screaming skulls. You finally see the source of the crawling 
tune that has plagued you this entire time.
A figure draped in a cloak of blackest night furiously 
taps its talons against a massive pipe organ. Three 
wriggling humanoid figures with sacks over their heads 
are bound to the tall silver pipes. The music pauses for 
just long enough to allow you to hear a chorus of shrieks 
from above.
This dark chapel is the final stop for Alquam’s trap. 
The bird-like humanoid playing the organ is an illusory 
avatar of Alquam, Demon Lord of Night. The pipe organ, 
the figures, and Alquam are all the product of a major 
image spell. Interacting with these elements reveals the 
illusion but cannot stop the music.
While Alquam himself is not real, the three owl harpies 
(see Tome of Beasts) he has commanded to guard the 
chapel certainly are. The harpies are seated on top of three 
of the 60-foot-tall pillars carved to look like columns of 
skulls. The owl harpies immediately attack the PCs but 
will largely fight defensively, doing everything they can to 
keep the PCs in the chapel for 3 rounds.
At the beginning of the third round, Alquam’s magic 
takes effect, and a portal opens in the middle of the 
room. The harpies’ goal is to get the PCs into the portal—
at least one of them, trusting that the rest will follow. 
Once the portal opens, the owl harpies will use their 
Hovering Darkness (dragging any unconscious PC into 
the portal) and Luring Song (luring any charmed PC into 
the portal) traits to achieve this.
If one or more PCs enter the portal, read the following 
and proceed to the next section of the adventure: 
The ghastly music swells to a mighty crescendo that forces 
the world to spin. Shadows cast by the red candles and 
dark figures swirl into a blanket of utter black.
   As you get your bearings, you realize you are no longer 
in the chapel. Wherever you are, at least the music has 
finally stopped.
Alquam’s magic continues for 10 minutes after the 
portal opens, after which the portal closes and any 
remaining PCs find themselves in the original cellar with 
no trace of the illusory rooms. 
Part 3: Vault of dreams
The portal has transported the characters to a remote 
corner of the Shadow Realm known as the Vault of 
Dreams. To escape the vault, the PCs must collect the 
items required to conduct the Ritual of Awakening. 
Once the ritual is complete, the adventurers have 
their window to escape—and so does the shard of the 
previous Moonlit King.
VAULT FEATURES
This tomb-like vault is carved from stark geometric 
patterns of black and white stone. There are no windows, 
and the whole place is filled with stale air.
Ceilings. Unless specified otherwise, the ceilings of the 
vault are 15 feet tall and covered with black-and-white 
mosaics of twisting abstract patterns. 
Doors. Unless specified otherwise, the doors in the 
vault are made of black and white stone with no locks.
Light. Unless specified otherwise, there are no light 
sources in any area of the vault.
Restless Whispers. The Vault of Dreams is a small 
piece of the Shadow Realm and haunted by dreamers. 
Anyone who listens can hear a soft chorus of worried 
whispers while inside the vault.
Stasis. The vault is trapped in a stasis that keeps both 
the shard of the previous Moonlit King trapped and 
prevents the vault from being damaged. Anything that is 
destroyed or displaced in the vault resets to its original 
state after 10 minutes have passed. The vault areas where 
this effect is most likely to influence the adventure are 
noted in each section.
AREA 1: POOL ROOM
You find yourself in complete darkness. As your eyes 
adjust, you see a pool set into the floor of this hexagonal 
room. The pool glows with a faint lavender light, 
illuminating the base of a marble statue at its edge.
The portal has transported the PCs to the Shadow 
Realm. In particular, a hidden shrine called the Vault 
of Dreams. This chamber is the center of the vault and 
holds the key to the PCs’ escape.
Characters who look around the room find several 
things of note.
Braziers. Two large stone braziers rest on the balcony. 
Each brazier has a neat pile of dried twigs and aromatic 
leaves ready to light. When lit, these braziers illuminate 
the entire room.
Pool. The faintly glowing substance in the pool is not 
water. It is a viscous, opalescent liquid. A successful DC 
15 Intelligence (Arcana or Nature) check confirms this 
is no natural substance, and it appears to be raw magical

--- PAGE 131 ---
129
1
9
2
10
8
7
6
5
4
3
energy in a semi-tangible state. If any liquid is removed 
from the pool, it ceases to be magical. If the pool is 
drained, any fluid lost replenishes after 10 minutes. 
Statue. The marble statue at the pool’s edge depicts a 
male humanoid figure dressed in otherworldly finery. 
The man looks mostly human, except for one monstrous 
clawed hand. A successful DC 18 Intelligence (History) 
check identifies this large statue (AC 18; 75 hp; immunity 
to poison and psychic damage) as a depiction of the fey 
lord known as the Moonlit King (see Tome of Beasts). A 
successful DC 20 Strength (Athletics) check topples the 
statue. If the statue is damaged, moved, pushed into the 
pool, or destroyed, it reverts to its original state and place 
after 10 minutes.
Escaping the Vault. Several things have to happen in 
this room to escape the Vault of Dreams. In the other 
regions of the vault, the PCs can find a knife, a wand, and 
a chalice. When these three items are dropped into the 
pool, the Ritual of Awakening begins, and the characters 
will have an opportunity to escape the vault. When the 
three items are tossed into the pool, jump to the Return 
of the King section below.
AREA 2: RELIQUARY OF RITUAL
This hexagonal room is empty except for an ornate silver 
chest atop an altar at the room’s very center. 
    As you take in your surroundings, a booming voice issues 
from the chest, “You are in the presence of the Reliquary of 
Ritual! Step forward, pilgrims, if ye seek knowledge.”
If any characters approach the chest, the reliquary 
poses them a series of questions. The reliquary asks a 
question, waits for each character to answer, and then 
delivers its response.

--- PAGE 132 ---
130
The first question the reliquary asks:
“Who comes before the Reliquary of Ritual?” 
If the player answers anything other than their real 
name, the reliquary says: “Ye are unworthy. Step away, 
pilgrim.” The reliquary then refuses to interact with that 
character any further.
The second question the reliquary asks: 
“Would you name yourself as strong or wise?” 
If a character answers, “Strong,” the reliquary will say, 
“That is too bad. You are unworthy of my knowledge. 
Run along.” 
The reliquary opens its lid and spits out a child’s toy 
sword as a consolation prize. The reliquary then refuses 
to interact with that character any further.
The third exchange is not a question but 
instead a demand:
“Demonstrate your power if ye be worthy.”
The reliquary wants to see something impressive 
to demonstrate a character’s worth. Casting a spell 
is one way to impress the reliquary, but a creative 
demonstration using a skill is also acceptable. The 
reliquary will judge who gave the most impressive 
display (preferring anyone who cast a spell). It then says 
to that character, “Only ye are worthy, step forward and 
receive the gifts of the reliquary.”
Treasure. The reliquary opens to the person it deems 
“worthy.” Inside the chest is a spell scroll of telepathic 
bond and a spell scroll of phantom steed. In addition to 
these, there is a piece of rolled parchment that details the 
Ritual of Awakening. 
Following is the text of the Ritual of 
Awakening, instructing the PCs on how 
to perform the ritual:
While caught in sleep
Your soul we’ll keep
Locked in the vault of dreams
Our mad liege
We’ll keep from siege 
Locked in the vault of dreams
One day to wake
The steps to take
To escape the vault of dreams
Key objects found
Then promptly drowned
To escape the vault of dreams
One a chalice
Stained by malice
Kept in the vault of dreams
Forge the knife
Of nightmares life
Kept in the vault of dreams
Reveal the wand
From pillars spawned
Or die in the vault of dreams
With all three
Our king you’ll see
Or die in the vault of dreams

--- PAGE 133 ---
131
AREA 3: SANDS OF SLEEP
A thin walkway stretches between the two doors of this 
room. Just underneath the walkway is a lake of white 
sand that continuously churns like ocean waves. Every so 
often, you glimpse objects in the sand, whispers of golden 
treasures that bubble to the surface and then sink back 
into the depths. 
This pit is filled with sleeping sand. Any character who 
touches it must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving 
throw or fall unconscious. An unconscious PC is rapidly 
pulled underneath the sand and begins to suffocate. An 
unconscious character can repeat the saving throw at the 
end of each of their turns to see if they wake up. Pulling 
a character out of the sand or swimming out of the sand 
requires a successful DC 15 Strength (Athletics) check.
Buried Treasures. There are various golden objects 
buried in the sand, everything from ornate clocks to 
crowns to weapons. A character who reaches into the 
sand or dives in must succeed a DC 15 Constitution 
saving throw each round they are in contact with it (as 
per the rules above). Characters who use magic or other 
creative means for fishing objects out of the sand do so 
easily. All objects pulled from the sand disappear from 
the inventory of characters who teleport out of the vault.
Golden Hilt. Characters who have investigated the 
Dream Anvil in Area 6 can easily spot a golden hilt 
among the sand’s treasures. 
AREA 4: DREAM ANVIL
A faintly glowing anvil sits at the far side of this small 
room. Set into its surface is a depression shaped like a 
knife with a unique hilt.
The anvil is the only object in this room. The PCs 
can use it to craft the knife needed for the Ritual of 
Awakening. When sleeping sand and a hilt from Area 3 
are inserted, the anvil flashes and magically assembles a 
glass dagger.
Clue. If the PCs are struggling to figure out how to use 
the anvil, randomly determine a character who notices 
an empty packet of sleeping sand at the base of the anvil.
AREA 5: REFUSE PIT
The roughhewn walls of this cavern reveal it was a later 
addition to the vault. A rocky crater on the south side of 
the room is filled with a bubbling black liquid. A sudden 
presence enters your mind as you hear a voice crawl into 
your thoughts.
This stone cavern serves as a refuse pit for the vault. 
Trash is dumped into the bubbling black liquid, which 
breaks down all materials. 
The telepathic voice belongs to an unfortunate servant 
named Elwood. Elwood served as the vault’s caretaker 
until he defied instructions and removed the coverings 
of the mirrors in Area 6. He was promptly slain by the 
mirror images, who dropped his body into the black pit. 
While his body is gone, Elwood’s consciousness remains 
trapped in the pit. Elwood cannot be saved, but he wants 
revenge on the creatures who trapped him in this eternal 
nightmare. Elwood asks the PCs to smash the mirrors in 
Area 6 and dump every single shattered piece into the 
black bubbling pit. This process is the only way to ensure 
the mirror images cannot respawn. 
If the characters do as Elwood asks, he spits out the 
chalice required to conduct the Ritual of Awakening. 
AREA 6: MIRROR CHAMBER
This room is large with soaring ceilings and a wide 
expanse of a tiled floor. On the southern side of the room 
rests a stage scattered with objects. Two ornately carved 
mirrors, at least 15 feet in height, rest in opposite corners. 
On the northern side sprawls a balcony, 15 feet up.
Two mirror images (see Appendix) lurk inside this 
room, one inside each mirror. The mirrors are angled, 
so the mirror images do not perceive anyone on the 
northern balcony. However, if a creature enters the room 
ROLEPLAYING ELWOOD
Elwood was once an elf commanded to clean and look 
after the Vault of Dreams. He has been trapped in his 
current incorporeal state for so long however that he 
can only vaguely recall details about his former life.
The realization that he will be trapped here for 
centuries until his consciousness finally fades away 
has shredded his sanity. Elwood is desperate for the 
characters to help him enact his revenge and will try 
every emotional tactic to get them to help.
If the PCs ask Elwood questions about the vault or 
how they arrived, he can only provide cryptic hints 
at information. He genuinely cannot remember the 
purpose of the vault, but he does suggest the characters 
visit the Reliquary of Ritual in Area 2 if they need help.

--- PAGE 134 ---
132
from the west or east or climbs down from the balcony, 
they immediately step from their mirrors to attack.
Destroying the Mirrors. The gigantic mirrors and the 
mirror images that inhabit them are one creature. The 
standing mirrors share the mirror images’ AC, saving 
throws, and hit points. The mirrors shatter when the 
mirror images are destroyed, scattering the shards on the 
floor. Like everything else in the vault, the mirrors will 
repair themselves 10 minutes after being destroyed.
The Stage. The stage at the southern end of the room 
has a variety of equipment stacked on it. These items 
include moldy rations, candles, kindling, cleaning 
materials, and other standard equipment. The only 
notable item is a set of massive black-velvet curtains. If 
these curtains are draped over the mirrors, the mirror 
images are forced to retreat into their respective mirrors 
and do not attack anyone who passes through the room. 
The curtains were originally placed here by Elwood, who 
met a nasty fate and now resides in Area 5. 
AREA 7: LECTERN
A stone lectern rests in this unadorned alcove. A tome 
rests on it, open. The page shows an image of a beautiful, 
crowned figure dressed in a cape made of flowing water.
The tome resting on the lectern is titled Pimm’s Faerie 
Tales. It is a collection of stories chronicling the various 
fey monarchs who vie for power. 
Anyone who spends time examining the book or 
flipping through its pages discovers a note written inside 
the front cover:
Night stares across the sky upon her cast-out lord, flanked 
by her sister queens, ready for a fight.
   Winter’s monarch keeps His Rippling Majesty oh 
so close by her side, whose watery throne rests to the 
Moonlit King’s right.
This note reveals how to solve the spinning pillar 
puzzle in Area 8. The PCs can also use the book to 
identify the carved images of the fey lords and ladies.
AREA 8: SPINNING PILLARS
Six floor-to-ceiling pillars surround a central column of 
transparent glass. Five of the pillars are carved with five 
different panels. The sixth pillar on the eastern side of the 
room shows the same panel on every side depicting a man 
dressed in finery with a single clawed hand.
This room is a puzzle that can be solved using the note 
written in the book in Area 7. To solve the puzzle, the 
PCs must rotate the pillars, so the correct sides face the 
center’s glass column.
The panels depicted on the five pillars (that can be 
rotated) are:
•	A man dressed in animal hides with antlers growing 
from his head: Lord of the Hunt.
•	A crowned woman dressed in a gown carved with 
stars: Queen of Night and Magic.
•	A woman with wild, tangled hair, holding a silver 
ring: Queen of Witches.
•	A crowned man dressed in robes carved like waves: 
River King.
•	A woman draped in thick furs fringed with carved 
shards of ice: Snow Queen.
The correct faces to show on the pillars are:
•	Top left: Snow Queen.
•	Top Right: River King.
•	Far-Right: Moonlit King.
•	Bottom Right: Lord of the Hunt.
•	Bottom Left: Queen of Witches.
•	Far Left: Queen of Night and Magic.
Once the pillars have been set correctly, the glass 
column cracks, and a glass wand rolls onto the floor. 
The wand is not magical, but it is one of the three items 
needed to conduct the Ritual of Awakening in Area 1.
AREA 9: CHRONICLE OF DREAMS
Wooden shelves with dozens of tiny drawers cover the 
walls of this room. There are several alcoves that each 
contain a marble stand topped with a shallow bowl. The 
bowls are filled with viscous black liquid.
This chamber is a storage space for the Moonlit 
King’s dreams. While the king slept, a caretaker 
named Elwood was supposed to collect the dreams 
and place them in these drawers. Since Elwood met his 
unfortunate end centuries ago (see Area 5), the Moonlit 
King’s dreams have gone uncollected, and most of the 
drawers are empty.
Searching the Drawers. Most of the dozens of 
drawers are empty, but a few contain glass marbles. 
Each of these marbles is of varying sizes and has a 
different pattern of colored glass. When a marble is 
dropped into the black liquid, the creature that dropped 
the marble experiences the king’s dream.

--- PAGE 135 ---
133
If a character drops a marble into a bowl, you can 
roll or choose on the Dream Marbles table below to 
determine what they experience:
AREA 10: COLLAPSED PASSAGE
Large chunks of stone and rubble have fallen from above, 
collapsing the passage.
This passage used to lead to the rest of the Shadow 
Realm, but it has collapsed over the centuries.
A character can spend an hour of hard work clearing 
the passage, at which point viscous black liquid pours 
from the opening. The liquid continues to flow in 
a torrent, flooding the vault for 10 minutes. At the 
10-minute mark, the collapsed passage suddenly returns 
to its original state, and the liquid disappears. The vault’s 
ability to reset itself makes it impossible to escape using 
this route.
RETURN OF THE KING
Once the glass knife, the wand, and the chalice are 
dropped into the pool, the Ritual of Awakening begins. 
As the items sink into the opalescent pool, the liquid 
begins to spin, rapidly speeding to create a whirlpool. 
Cracking sounds come from the marble statue as you see 
flecks of stone fall from a now-animated face.
The swirling vortex in the pool is the portal back 
to Midgard. If the PCs jump into the vortex, they are 
transported out of the vault and return to Midgard.
d8
Dream
1
You experience the sensation of physical touch for the first time in what feels like forever. Her beautiful face, like 
marble perfection, swims into view. So close, you can count the constellations that swirl in her gaze. She’s going to 
take you back this time. This time, you’re sure.
2
Wind whips against your face as you soar through the moonlit sky. It is the warm winds of Faerie however, so not 
so unpleasant. Far below, you watch the forests stir as you head home to rest.
3
Your tongue feels the sweet burst of yet another ripe summer berry. You sigh with pleasure as gilded pixies lay 
silver dinner platters before you. Your eyes fill with the delight of soft cheeses, honeyed meats, rich wines, and 
fresh breads.
4
White-hot light blinds your vision as stone walls shatter nearby. Your vision recovers slowly, allowing you to see a 
hole in the wall of your prison. Fresh air, real night air, fills your nose. You are free.
5
The caress of silk is a revelation as you slide your arm into yet another gossamer sleeve. You smile at the rows of 
beautiful clothing. Excessive finery made just for you.
6
You feel the crown’s weight settle on your head and hear the cheers of your subjects. Everyone in the court has 
come to witness your triumph. You wave to the folks as the band begins to play.
7
Panic surges in your chest as you claw along the dark stone floor. There is not a single crack in your prison. You can no 
longer feel the moon’s light, and you are going to die here alone.
8
Wolf songs echo through the hills somewhere far away. You long to run with them once again, but no matter how fast 
you run, you can’t seem to catch up. Surely, they must be over the next hill... you just have to push a little farther.
DREAM MARBLES

--- PAGE 136 ---
134
By opening the vortex, the characters have allowed 
the shard of the previous Moonlit King an opportunity 
to escape as well. The Moonlit King’s goal is to jump 
into the portal and escape (not necessarily to fight the 
characters). Each round the Moonlit King remains 
conscious, he becomes less statue-like. After 3 rounds, he 
has full control of his powers and does everything he can 
to leap into the vortex. 
If the characters decide to fight the Moonlit King (see 
Tome of Beasts) and manage to defeat or incapacitate 
him before he leaps into the portal, he will revert to a 
stone statue in 10 minutes due to the vault’s stasis effect. 
Before this happens, the vortex closes, which means the 
king’s memory is forced to remain in the vault. 
Use the following changes to the Moonlit King’s stats 
for this encounter:
•	 Has hit point maximum halved. (Once the shard steps 
through the portal, his memories are now shared by 
the current Moonlit King. Should the shard of the 
Moonlit King ever fall to 0 hit points while outside of 
the vault, the shard is destroyed.)
•	 Has a speed of 0 feet until after 3 rounds of combat 
have passed.
•	 Does half damage with Fearful Shadows action.
•	 Cannot take Summon Devil action nor take legendary 
actions.
•	 Cannot take lair actions, and the Vault of Dreams is 
not affected by regional effects.
Concluding the Adventure
If the PCs can neutralize the Moonlit King, he reverts to 
a statue and is unable to escape his prison in the Vault 
of Dreams: 
The final strike shatters the Moonlit King as if he were 
made of stone. The pieces lay scattered on the floor, no 
longer living. The whirl of the portal in the center of the 
room begins to grow quieter as you see the whirlpool 
growing smaller. If you are going to escape from the vault, 
you have to do it now.
Characters who jump into the vortex appear back 
on Midgard within the cellar of the ruins just outside 
Elmshire. When they appear, they notice that the 
missing residents have appeared with them and cannot 
remember anything since they last heard the music. 
Silvana has fled Elmshire by the time the characters 
return for their reward.
THE MOONLIT KING ESCAPES
If the PCs decide to jump into the vortex without 
confronting the Moonlit King, they return to Midgard 
as above. However, the Moonlit King follows them when 
he regains full control of his body after 3 rounds. Once 
he is free, the shard of the Moonlit King has better things 
to do than fight adventurers, but he might be inclined to 
give them a gift or a last-minute sucker punch. 
However that interaction ends, the shard is now free 
to wander the world. What he does with his freedom, 
especially with regard to the current Moonlit King 
and the courts, depends on what works best for your 
campaign, but he has many scores to settle and isn’t too 
concerned with whatever global fallout might ensue.
FURTHER ADVENTURES
If the PCs wish to continue following the threads of 
this story, here are several hooks to craft a follow-up 
adventure:
•	 The PCs can attempt to track down Silvana Redleaf to 
get their just rewards. This route leads them to interact 
with the demon cult of Alquam.
•	 If the PCs succeeded in keeping the Moonlit King 
trapped, this attracts the gratitude of one of the fey 
lords or ladies. Perhaps the fey is interested in giving 
them a few tasks of their own to complete.
•	 The PCs’ presence in the vault has likely alerted the 
Queen of Night and Magic to their efforts—and maybe 
also the current Moonlit King or his allies. The PCs 
might subsequently get drawn into quests for any 
number of related parties, perhaps even being drawn 
into the intrigues of the Courts of the Shadow Fey.

--- PAGE 137 ---
135
RACE FOR THE SHINING DAWN
This adventure takes place in an unspecified location in 
the Western Wastes in the path of Pah’draguusthlai, the 
Dread Walker, but can easily be adapted to any isolated 
and desolate region.
Adventure Background
Xandar Demir grew up in Bemmea—yet another arcane 
practitioner produced by the Magocracy of Allain. 
Demir is a competent mage but overshadowed by many. 
His one claim to fame is that he is the last known direct 
descendent of Enkada Pishtuhk, the treacherous mage 
who summoned the first Dread Walker, during the 
Great Mage Wars. 
Demir spent years trying to live up to the expectations 
inherent in being related to the most infamous wizard 
in the world. But he never did. Xandar could never 
muster what was needed to step out from under the 
shadow of his ancestor—and even Enkada’s shadow 
was more famous and feared than he would ever be. 
Finally, he decided that the family reputation should 
work in his favor for once, so he journeyed to Enkada’s 
tower, affixed to the back of the looming Walker that the 
ancient mage had summoned, in the hopes of studying 
under his ancestor. 
Xandar had expected there to be some sort of 
familial connection, some special dispensation for a 
relative. Instead, Enkada refused to see him, sending 
his magical shadow to speak in his stead. The shadow 
stated that only those who came bearing acceptable 
gifts were allowed consultation with Enkada. Xandar’s 
despair quickly turned to anger. He became obsessed 
with proving himself worthy of Enkada’s bloodline, 
of simultaneously earning Enkada’s respect while 
punishing the mage for spurning his request for aid. 
He lurked in the wastes, observing the tower and the 
looming abomination that bore it. Whether it was a 
family predisposition for madness, the time spent in the 
vicinity of the Dread Walker, studying it and the tower, 
or a wearing down of his mind after years of trying to 
resolve the disparity between the greatness of his legacy 
and the relative mediocrity of his talents, eventually 
Demir’s mind snapped.
He determined that to truly reach his full potential, 
he needed access to his birthright: the secrets held in 
Enkada’s tower and the Dread Walker itself. Demir 
embarked on a mission to find a way to reverse the 
spells that keep Pah’draguusthlai locked outside of time, 
to gather useful followers to assist him in creating and 
eventually performing the ritual that he is sure will 
dissolve the bonds that imprison the Walker, releasing 
the abomination and the legacy it carries upon its back. 
And so the Heralds of the Shining Dawn were born. 
Led by Demir, this group of fanatical lunatics have 
slaved and studied, watching the stars and seeking 
the necessary ancient tomes, rare components, and fit 
sacrifices. Now the time of the Shining Dawn is nigh. 
The cultists have begun the long, complex ritual devised 
by Xandar to undo the mighty spells laid down upon the 
Dread Walker by the mages of old. Worse, the ritual is 
having effects that those sensitive to magic have noticed, 
causing great concern among the wise.
Adventure Hooks
Here are some options for introducing the PCs into 
the adventure:
•	 Dire portents from divinations conducted at the 
Temple of Lada in Bourgund warn of great danger 
associated with a thing or event known as the Shining 
Dawn. Whatever the Shining Dawn may be, it is 
somewhere in the Western Wastes, and the time until 
its dangers are unleashed is short. Powerful figures in 
Allain seek adventurers to travel into the wastes and 
seek out the source of this peril and end it.
•	 Mages from the Academies Arcana in Bemmea have 
been receiving reports of strange magical events from 
researchers in the Western Wastes. Investigation 
into these reports show these events to be temporal 
anomalies, minor and seemingly random alterations 
to the flow of time. They also seem to be growing in 
frequency and effect the farther one moves into the 
wastes. Through the efforts of several mages, they were 
able to determine the origin of the magical energies 
that are causing the events. It lies near the feet of 
one of the Great Walkers. The mages need seasoned 
adventurers to swiftly reach the site, determine the 
cause, and stop it before it gets out of control.
For 8th-Level Characters

--- PAGE 138 ---
136
•	 A prominent NPC in the PCs’ lives has been abducted. 
An investigation turns up the name of an organization 
called the Heralds of the Shining Dawn. How this 
information is brought to the PCs’ attention can 
vary depending on circumstances and the NPC 
involved. Perhaps the NPC was investigating the 
cult or suspicious individuals were poking around, 
asking questions about the abducted NPC, prior to 
the kidnapping and were later identified as members 
or associates of the cult. Tracking down leads brings 
them information of an occult ritual being conducted 
at a remote location in the Western Wastes where 
sacrifices are being made. The PCs must race to save 
this individual before they meet their end upon a 
sacrificial altar.
The Ritual of the Shining Dawn
The Ritual of the Shining Dawn is the grandiose name 
that Xandar Demir has given to the complex and lengthy 
ritual he has devised as a means of piercing the veil 
that unseats Pah’draguusthlai from reality, allowing the 
Devourer to reenter the normal flow of time. 
The ritual requires the aid of many participants and 
several individual elements, some to manipulate the 
magical fields that hold the barrier in place, others to act 
as beacons to draw the Dread Walker’s attention so that 
it comes through at the appointed time when the barrier 
is briefly opened. 
Demir is certain that it will work if finished to 
completion.His mad minions are too zealous and 
ignorant of the theories to question it; they merely live to 
serve him and the abomination he seeks to free. Should 
the cultists in one room be attacked, the others in the 
adjacent rooms will leave them to their fates, single-
mindedly pursuing their own portion of the ritual in an 
attempt to ensure success, though they will be expecting 
trouble after hearing or seeing combat taking place 
elsewhere in the complex.
THE RITUAL COMPLEX
The Heralds of the Shining Dawn have found a suitable 
site for Demir’s ritual. It is an ancient complex directly 
in Pah’draguusthlai’s path. It lies beneath a ruined tower, 
the remains of its outer wall jutting up like a talon into 
the sky atop a low hill. The massive, fleshy bulk of the 
Devourer looms, towering in the near distance, its long 
shadow falling across the ruin like an ill omen. 
The strange temporal effects are strongest in this 
region, and a simple detect magic spell will be enough to 
discern the incredible amounts of magical energy that are 
emanating from somewhere in the ruins. The entrance to 
the caves under the tower is plainly visible: an iron‑bound 
trapdoor with a pull ring set into the foundation beneath 
the ruined walls. Lifting the door reveals a set of stairs 
descending into darkness, and bits of music and chanting 
can be heard echoing up from below.
MINOR TEMPORAL EFFECTS
One thing that is certain is that the magic of the ritual 
does indeed have noticeable effects on the flow of time, 
starting in the immediate area and spreading outward, 
like ripples in a calm pool when a stone is cast into it. 
The longer the ritual goes on, the more intrusive and 
persistent these effects become. Some of these have a 
definitive mechanical effect on the game while others are 
mostly atmospheric. 
During the PCs’ travels to the site of the ritual, you 
can have fun playing up these effects. Once within the 
complex, there will be specific, more potent side effects of 
the ritual that will come into play during the encounters 
set there, as laid out in the descriptions. 
As GM, you are free to devise other minor temporal 
effects if you wish, but the general rule is that they 
should have no effect on in-game mechanics, or at least 
not while in combat. (See also Major Temporal Effects 
below for those effects that occur in the cultist’s complex 
where the magic is much more powerful.) During the 
time prior to their arrival at the cultist’s complex, you 
can use the following effects:
•	 Altered Time Flow. The PCs see obvious signs of 
the flow of time being altered in a particular area or 
for a particular creature or creatures. They might 
notice a bird that seems paused in mid-flight. Closer 
observation reveals the bird is still moving but at a 
pace that’s only noticeable with prolonged attention: 
it takes a full minute for the bird to flap its wings a 
single time. Or they might witness a tortoise outpacing 
them. It might even affect the PCs directly if you wish: 
perhaps for a brief period the world seems to speed 
up around them (they slow down) or everything else 
seems to move in slow motion while they remain at 
what appears to be a normal speed (they speed up).
•	 Déjà Vu. The PCs find themselves repeating sentences 
or taking actions that they’re sure they’ve already done 
before. They might come around a low hillside and 
pass a broken wagon, only to realize they just passed 
STATUS IN MIDGARD
If you are using Status (see Midgard Wo rldbook) 
and the PCs defeat the cult, the PCs gain +2 to their 
Status with the individual or organization that set 
them on this journey and with Enkada Pishtuhk. These 
modifiers stack with similar Status modifiers the PCs 
may possess.

--- PAGE 139 ---
137
it a minute ago, yet they’ll see no signs of their tracks 
indicating that they’ve already been by it once before.
•	 Reversals. Time might seem to move backward for 
small periods. During the night, the stars and planets 
may seem to traverse the wrong direction across the 
night sky, only to reverse themselves to the correct 
course again. This is an isolated pocket effect, which 
corrects itself once the PCs travel outside of the 
affected area, which is at most 100 yards in diameter.
MAJOR TEMPORAL EFFECTS
The strain that the Shining Dawn’s ritual is putting on 
the temporal flow is much greater at the source. As such, 
the effects experienced within the complex are much 
greater than in the surrounding lands and more likely to 
have a dramatic effect on events, for better or worse. 
When combat ensues, before initiative is rolled, roll 
percentile dice for each creature. There is a 50% chance 
it is affected by a temporal effect on its turn; the exact 
effect is determined by rolling on the Major Temporal 
Effects table. This effect lasts until the beginning of the 
creature’s next turn (unless the individual effect states 
otherwise), when percentiles are rolled again to see if it 
suffers another effect. 
Each result lists the name and the effect as well as the 
caster level for purposes of a dispel magic spell, which 
can counter the effects if successfully cast on the affected 
target. In the case of a large group of creatures, you can 
speed up the process by making one percentile roll for 
a group of the same type of creature to see if they are 
affected, and/or a single roll to determine the effect.
As the adventurers successfully defeat the cultists and 
put an end to portions of the ritual, the effects of the 
Shining Dawn begin to lessen. The chance of a temporal 
effect lessens by 5% each time a ritual room (Areas 2, 3, 
5, 6, 7, 9, 10, and 11) is cleared, to a minimum of 10%. 
If Demir is killed in Area 12, then all major temporal 
effects cease immediately, and the lesser temporal effects 
in the surrounding areas lessen and eventually stop over 
the course of the next 8 hours.
Quickening. The creature affected has an altered view 
of time, allowing for swift reactions. If this result comes 
up prior to combat, the creature rolls a d4 and adds the 
result to their initiative roll. Otherwise, the creature can 
roll a d4 and add the result to an attack on their turn 
or to a Dexterity saving throw rolled before the start of 
their next turn.
Precognitive Flash. The creature has a brief glimpse 
of the future, viewing an opening in an enemy’s defenses 
or seeing an attack before it happens. The creature gains 
advantage on one attack it makes before the beginning of 
its next turn or causes a creature to have disadvantage on 
one attack against it that takes place before its next turn.
False Precognitive Flash. What seems to be a brief 
view of the future is merely a possibility that never 
comes to pass, a misreading that brings woe. The 
creature gains disadvantage on its next attack roll, or an 
attacker gains advantage on an attack against it (GM’s 
choice) that occurs before the creature’s next turn.
Deceleration. The flow of time slows around the 
creature, reducing its speed to half until the beginning 
of its next turn, unless it rolls this result again the 
following round. In that instance, it continues to 
decelerate, reducing its speed by half again (rounded 
down). If the effect is received multiple times, a 
creature’s speed can never be reduced to less than 5 feet.
Acceleration. The flow of time around the creature 
quickens, doubling its speed until the beginning of its 
next turn. If this effect is rolled for the creature a second 
time (or a third and so on), its movement rate does not 
increase to more than double, but it instead can use a 
bonus action on its turn to use the Dash action, and 
it has advantage on Dexterity saving throws until the 
effect ends.
Haste. The creature is under the effects of the haste 
spell until the beginning of its next turn.
Slow. The creature is under the effects of the slow spell 
until the beginning of its next turn.
Magical Insight. A flash of foresight gives the 
creature time to prepare against magical attacks. It gains 
advantage on any saving throws against spells and other 
magical effects until the beginning of its next turn.
Deep Precognition. The creature receives a brief 
but detailed glimpse into the near future of its current 
surroundings. If the creature is controlled by the GM, 
d%
Effect
Caster 
Level
01–10
Quickening
0
11–20
Precognitive flash
1st
21–30
False precognitive flash
1st
31–40
Deceleration
2nd
41–50
Acceleration
3rd
51–60
Haste
3rd
61–70
Slow
3rd
71–80
Magical insight
3rd
81–90
Deep precognition
4th
91–00
Time loop
6th
MAJOR TEMPORAL EFFECTS

--- PAGE 140 ---
138
then each player must declare, in initiative order, what 
their next action will be. 
If the creature is a PC, then the GM must declare the 
actions of each remaining creature on the initiative order 
between this turn and the PC’s next turn. Once those 
actions are declared, the creatures must take the action 
declared, or one as close as possible if circumstances 
make it impossible once their turn is reached. The affected 
creature has advantage on attack rolls, ability checks 
and saving throws until the beginning of its next turn 
while any creatures that have declared their actions have 
disadvantage on attack rolls against the affected creature.
Time Loop. A thread of time around the creature 
circles back and forms a loop. The creature takes its turn 
normally. However, instead of rolling again the following 
turn for a possible effect, the time loop takes hold. The 
creature is teleported to the space where it began its last 
turn. The creature must repeat the activities it took on 
its previous turn, following the sequence of moves and 
actions to the best of its ability. Movement does not need 
to be along the same exact path, nor does an attack have 
to be against the same target, but if the creature moved 
and attacked on its last turn, then it must move and 
attack on this turn. If the space where it began its last turn 
is occupied, or the creature is unable to take the same 
action (if it cast a spell last turn but is unable to do so this 
turn because it is out of spell slots, for example), then the 
target becomes incapacitated.
Once a creature is caught in a time loop, it does not roll 
again on the table until it breaks free. Each round after 
its first repetition of actions, it can recognize it is in a 
time loop and make a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw. On a 
successful save, the creature breaks free of the time loop, 
rolling again for a possible major temporal effect on its 
next turn.
AREA 1: HALL OF ECHOES
This rough-hewn chamber of stone has a high, vaulted 
ceiling, cast into flickering shadows by clusters of lit 
candles that have been placed in random locations on the 
floor. The smell of beeswax and smoke is heavy in the air. 
Strange, droning chants can be heard from the passages 
exiting the room to the north and east, woven with strains 
of piping, alien music. These sounds seem to bounce 
off the walls of the chamber and multiply, becoming a 
1
2
3
4
6
5
7
8
9
10
12
11
N
h

--- PAGE 141 ---
139
multitude of eldritch voices that cause the very air to 
tremble. The room is smoky, and the smoke concentrates 
around four strange beasts—horrible amalgamations of 
insect and canine—that sit near the exit on the northern 
edge of the room.
Echo Chamber. While the acoustics here are unusual, 
they are being enhanced further by another of the 
ritual’s temporal manifestations. Not only are there 
actual echoes of recent sounds but echoes returning 
from the past, accumulating and building, making 
echoes of echoes. These voices are distracting to 
intelligent, language-using creatures, causing them to 
be at disadvantage on attacks and ability checks in this 
room. This effect lasts until the ritual going on in Area 
11 has been disrupted or at least two other rituals in 
other rooms have been stopped.
Creatures. Four brimstone locusthounds (see Tome 
of Beasts 2) prowl this chamber. Tamed and trained 
by Xandar Demir, they will attack anyone entering the 
chamber who is not wearing the orange robes of the cult, 
and they are unaffected by the echo chamber effect. They 
are desperately hungry and fight to the death.
AREA 2: THE SACRIFICIAL FEAST
Several orange-robed figures surround a flat-topped stone 
in the northwestern corner of the room. Laid out on the 
stone is a figure, wearing nothing but a tattered loincloth. 
Several other bedraggled, near-naked forms huddle in 
chains in the southwestern corner. As the chanting of the 
robed figures rises, one holds aloft a sacrificial knife. To 
the east, four gray-skinned, emaciated figures crouch on 
the floor around the remains of a previous victim.
Creatures. A pair of cult fanatics lead four cultists 
in the ritual sacrifice of a commoner. Four other 
commoners and a noble sit, chained and drugged, 
awaiting their turn under the knife. Four ghouls 
devour the remains of the victims after the sacrifices are 
completed. The cultists fight to the death. The ghouls 
ironically have a better sense of self-preservation, 
attempting to flee if two of their number are struck down.
The prisoners would be willing to fight for their 
freedom if released except for their current drugged 
state. If the effects of the drugs are somehow removed 
and they are freed, they will use their manacles as 
makeshift weapons against their captors, fleeing the place 
once the battle is over.
Reward. If rescued and returned home to Bourgund, 
the noble will reward the PCs with 1,000 gp.
AREA 3: CHAMBER OF VIOLENCE
An elaborate circle of glyphs has been chalked in the 
center of this room and surrounded by lit candles. 
Two figures stand within it. A grotesquely muscled 
humanoid—easily over 9 feet tall and with strange sigils 
crawling over its flesh—is eagerly assaulting a much 
smaller humanoid in a torn and bloodied orange robe. 
With every twist of a limb or meaty smack of a backhand, 
the robed figure cries out in pain and mumbles a chanted 
passage in a strange tongue.
Creatures. A knight ab-errant (see Tome of Beasts 
2) is engaging in ritual violence against a cult fanatic at 
the cultist’s own direction. The violent acts build power, 
which is channeled through the ritual circle drawn out 
on the ground to help fuel the magic of the ritual. When 
the fanatic reaches their limit, they drink one of their 
potions, healing any damage, and the ritual starts again. 
If intruders enter, the fanatic commands the knight 
to attack. The knight hefts its maul and wades into 
combat while the fanatic drinks a potion to heal their 
wounds before using spells to support the knight. Both 
combatants fight to the death.
Treasure. The knight carries a pouch containing 70 gp 
and 210 sp. In the pockets of their robe, the cultist carries 
four potions of greater healing and a pouch of 40 gp.
AREA 4: FOREVER HALL
This stone hallway stretches for about 20 feet between 
two doors. Two glass globes, glowing with blue light, sit in 
iron sconces, hanging from the ceiling about 10 feet apart. 
The floor of the hallway is covered in a mosaic pattern of 
whorls and wavy lines in black and white tiles.
When creatures enter the hallway, the light from the 
glass orbs flares and flickers (a response by the creatures 
trapped inside to potential prey), possibly misleading 
the PCs into thinking they are linked to the trap 
described below.
Trap. If either door is entered, it will swing shut 2 
rounds after a creature passes over its threshold. The 
hallway seems to lengthen with the door at the far end 
receding into the distance. No matter how fast a creature 
runs the length of the hallway, they never seem to get any 
closer to the door. Looking in the other direction, back to 
the entrance, reveals a similar lengthening of the hallway. 
The lengthening of the hall is an illusion, and the reason 
a creature can never reach the end of the hall is because 
a creature entering the square in front of either of the 
doors will be teleported to the center of the hallway.

--- PAGE 142 ---
140
Prevention. A detect magic spell will note illusion 
magic in the hallway, conjuration magic at the two true 
ends of the hall, and abjuration magic from the glass 
globes above. 
Creatures that are flying or otherwise not touching 
the floor do not activate the teleportation effect. This 
will allow them to interact with the illusion. A successful 
DC 15 Intelligence (Investigation) check finds the door 
beyond the illusion. Damaging the mosaic on the floor 
in front of the doors will disable the teleportation effect. 
The squares have an AC 15. Doing at least 14 damage to 
the tiles is enough to disable the teleportation effect in 
that square.
Creatures. The glass globes are immune to fire damage 
but otherwise as fragile as normal glass (AC 13; hp 3). 
Breaking a globe releases the malnourished and stunted 
lambent witchfyre (see Tome of Beasts 2, changing size 
to Small, current hp to 35, and challenge rating to 3) 
from within. The witchfyres are starving and will attempt 
to incinerate any and all creatures in the hallway, and 
they will pursue creatures anywhere in or out of the 
complex, though they may become distracted by other 
sources of food (creatures) nearby.
AREA 5: RITUAL HALL OF 
THE BLACK GOAT’S BLESSING
The air of this room carries a heavy, musky odor. Drawn 
on the floor at the far end of the room is an elaborate 
magic circle. The air within the circle appears filled 
by a roiling darkness. Tendrils of smoke—or perhaps 
tentacles?—snake outward to test the barrier of the circle 
as if searching for an opening to escape. Standing around 
the circle are four figures. Two are wearing orange, hooded 
robes. The other pair are monstrous amalgamations of 
goats and men, crouched and staring into the darkness 
within the circle while emitting excited grunts and bleats.
Creatures. Conducting a ritual to garner the attention 
and aid of the Black Goat of the Woods are two cult 
fanatics, aided by a pair of goat-men (see Tome of Beasts). 
They will attack any intruders, fighting to the death.
Black Goat’s Presence. While the writhing, smoky, 
tendrilled mass within the circle remains, any saving 
throws made against the spells and effects of the room’s 
occupants are made at disadvantage. Once the cultists

--- PAGE 143 ---
141
have entered combat and are no longer performing the 
ritual, the presence fades in 4 rounds. A creature can 
perform the Use an Object action to mar the circle, 
scuffing it with a foot, splashing water on it, or otherwise 
marring the circle’s border and intricate glyphs, 
immediately banishing the presence, but any creatures 
within 5 feet of the circle take 11 (2d10) necrotic damage 
as the smoky tendrils lash out before fading away.
Treasure. In the back of the room are sacks 
containing materials for the ritual being conducted as 
well as components for the crafting of the magic circle. 
These include silver dust worth 150 gp, gold dust worth 
150 gp, diamond dust worth 300 gp, and rare oils worth 
50 gp.
AREA 6: WATER PREPARATION CHAMBER
One passage into this rough-hewn cave is partially 
flooded. The cloudy water lapping at the cavern floor bears 
an unwholesome, oily sheen. Orange-robed figures chant 
as they ceremoniously empty the contents of jars into the 
water. To the east, a robed kobold stands near a collection 
of other jars, surrounded by several sacks, meticulously 
adding ingredients from those sacks to the jars.
Creatures. A cult fanatic and four cultists are ritually 
poisoning the water in the pool with specially formulated 
toxins that are being crafted by a kobold alchemist (see 
Tome of Beasts). The cultists will rush intruders while 
the fanatic supports them with spells. The alchemist 
will provide alchemical protection to their allies before 
attacking from range with explosive flasks. All enemies 
here fight to the death.
Treasure. The gear and ingredients in the alchemist’s 
sacks provide the equivalent of a set of alchemist’s 
supplies, an herbalism kit, and a poisoner’s kit. There is 
also a pouch containing 10 gp and 25 sp.
AREA 7: RITUAL CHAMBER 
OF THE CHILDREN OF THE VOID
This chamber is devoid of light, and what light you bring 
with you seems too dim to illuminate the edges of the 
place, as if you have intruded upon an endless, silent 
void. In fact, the echoes seem to fade, leaving you with 
just the small noises your companions make in a vast, 
terrible silence—save for the whispers of some horrible 
tongue from out of the darkness ahead.
Creatures. Three satarre destroyers (see Tome of 
Beasts 2), led by a satarre mystic (see Tome of Beasts 2), 
conduct their portion of the ritual in this cave, bleeding 
just a trickle of the Void into the darkness of the place. 
These four are followers of a Void cult who assist 
because of the sheer amount of destruction that could 
be wrought should the Dread Walker be freed from its 
imprisonment.
Darkness of the Void. The magic being wrought here 
has bled the true darkness of the Void into the room. 
Nonmagical light sources are suppressed while the radius 
of magical light sources is reduced by half. A successful 
dispel magic against a 5th-level spell will end this effect.
Treasure. Among the various ritual trappings in place 
are six fist-sized orbs of black onyx, worth 50 gp each.
AREA 8: BEFOULED POOL
The water here is murky with churned sediment, and an 
unhealthy sheen coats the surface like a slick of oil. The 
water ripples as if something swims farther within. On 
occasion, a resounding moan echoes from deeper within 
the chamber.
Corrupted Water. The water in this cave is already foul 
due to its occupant, but the cultists have further polluted 
it during the ritual. If a creature is in contact with the 
water for at least 1 minute or drinks the water, then they 
must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw. On a 
failed save, a creature takes 7 (2d6) poison damage and is 
poisoned for 1 hour. On a successful save, a creature takes 
half damage and is poisoned for 1 minute.
The water has a depth of approximately 2 feet, where 
it extends into Area 6, deepening to about 3 feet in the 
eastern end of this area to a maximum depth of 8 feet 
below the hole in the ceiling on the western end that leads 
to Area 9.
Creature. A qwyllion (see Tome of Beasts) resides here. 
She has agreed to partake in the rituals, which call for the 
Shining Dawn cultists to further contaminate her pool 
with alchemical concoctions. She is now quite intoxicated 
by the additional pollutants and enjoying their effects 
immensely. The qwyllion is considered poisoned. She will 
attack intruders who enter the cave and disturb her bliss 
but will not pursue them beyond the room. In her current 
state, she cares only to luxuriate in her pool while the 
ritual goes on.
Treasure. Under the murky water in the northeast 
corner of the cave is a small casket. It contains 10 pp and 
70 gp.
AREA 9: CHAMBER OF VILE BAPTISMS
This finished chamber has a well cut into the floor. A 
shallow alcove carved into the north wall holds a bas relief 
of a creature whose body is but a torso held aloft on long 
arms that split at the elbow into a pair of forearms ending 
in taloned hands. A tripartite maw blossoms from the 
center of its chest, ringed in terrible, spider-like mandibles. 
Orange-robed cultists draw water from the well with 
buckets at the end of ropes, anointing themselves with

--- PAGE 144 ---
142
it, leaving a strange, oily sheen on their bodies, and then 
return to the walls, cutting their hands and tracing fresh 
blood over crawling glyphs that appear to have been drawn 
dozens of times over and now pulse with unholy power.
The water is drawn from Area 8 and has the physical 
effects described there if it is drunk or touched.
Creatures. A void speaker (see Creature Codex) 
leads three void cultists (see Creature Codex) in the 
rituals here. Due to the effects of the polluted water, the 
cultists are currently poisoned and have 25% fewer hit 
points than normal, but they gain advantage on attacks 
and ability checks while under the effects of the unholy 
baptism. The speaker will use her spells against intruders 
while her cultists engage in melee. These nihilistic 
opponents will fight to the death.
AREA 10: THE CHAMBER OF THE BLOODLETTERS
Four natural pillars run the length of this cavern. A 
slumped, nude form is manacled to each, their skin awash 
with blood. Tiny, winged crimson fiends flit about the 
figures, alighting on the pillars or on the head or shoulders 
of a prisoner, to put yet another incision in their skin and 
send another scarlet rivulet running to the floor. Orange-
robed figures at the north side of the room stand with 
arms upraised, chanting. The blood upon the floor seems 
to flow and ebb to the rhythm of the chant, spreading in 
unnatural ways to form strange, twisted glyphs.
Creatures. A total of eight blood imps (see Tome of 
Beasts 2), one pair for each pillar, work at drawing blood 
from the sacrifices chained to the pillars. They labor 
while three cult fanatics perform their rituals over the 
spilled blood. The imps are filled with bloodlust, and the 
cultists are blindly obedient to their master. All of them 
fight to the death.
Prisoners. The four commoners being used as 
sacrifices here are weak from blood loss and terrified. 
They want nothing more than to escape this nightmare 
and return to their homes and families. 
AREA 11: THE DANCE HALL
The strange sounds of singing and weird, fluting music 
fill the chamber. Robed cultists move about in erratic but 
intricate patterns, twirling and twisting to the discordant 
tune. The music comes from the center of the room, where 
a prancing, twitching mass resides, where musicians 
and pipes have fused together into a single tootling 
abomination. Next to this horror is an ebon-skinned 
figure with insect legs and feathery antennae, wailing 
away on a set of pipes of its own, fashioned of the body 
and bones of some terrible creature.
Creatures. The musicians for this ritual are a mad 
piper (see Tome of Beasts 2) and a selang (see Tome 
of Beasts). The dancers are 12 cultists, which will hurl 
themselves at intruders while the selang attacks with its 
alien piping and the mad piper plays its terrible dirge 
and inspires its allies. All present are committed to the 
cause and will lay down their lives, attempting to destroy 
the intruders.
Treasure. Alcoves in the room hold strange statues 
of classically proportioned humanoids that display 
disturbing portions of arachnid anatomy. One is male 
with mandibles in place of a mouth. 
A second male displays two extra pairs of spidery 
limbs, growing from his waist. A female figure has 
multiple spider-like eyes while a second female has an 
arachnid abdomen and spinnerets protruding from her 
lower back. 
The base of each statue has a hidden compartment that 
can be discovered with a successful DC 15 Intelligence 
(Investigation) or Wisdom (Perception) check. 
The first holds a vial containing a single dose of wyvern 
poison. The second holds a pair of slippers of spider 
climbing. The third contains a set of goggles of night. The 
last holds a wand of web.
AREA 12: THE CHAMBER OF THE FINAL RITUAL
This large chamber thrums with building energy. Two pillars 
rise in the center of the room, a sheen of energy crackling 
between them. Within the surging magic can be seen an 
image, a view of a massive creature looming over the 
wastelands with a tower on its back held in place by giant 
webs. In front of the image, a man in dirty, ragged robes and 
with wild hair and a tangled beard makes intricate gestures 
with a pointed, silvery rod. Behind him, four orange-robed 
cultists chant a refrain in some alien tongue.
Creatures. Xandar Demir stands before the magical 
image, performing the final tasks of the ritual. Behind him, 
four void cultists (see Creature Codex) provide additional 
aid. The cultists move to attack intruders while Demir 
completes the ritual. Laughing triumphantly, Xandar 
completes the final passes, using the sharp end of the rod 
to finish carving a sigil into one of the stone pillars:
“You fools are too late to stop me! Behold! Pah’draguusthlai 
the Devourer is unleashed, and I am triumphant!”
Demir laughs maniacally as the energy between the 
pillars explodes, but his laugh quickly becomes a scream. 
And the scream turns into a sound unlike anything that 
can be produced by a human throat as the backlash from 
the ritual envelops him. There is a metallic clatter as the 
rod of rampancy (see Appendix) he is holding drops to

--- PAGE 145 ---
143
the floor. Demir is thrown out of—or perhaps through 
would be the better term—time all at once, becoming 
a zeitgeist (see Tome of Beasts 2). Already insane, and 
now enraged, the zeitgeist hurls himself at the PCs, 
considering them the reason for the failed ritual. Not 
understanding that their leader has failed or what fate 
has befallen him, the cultists will continue to fight on his 
behalf, fanatically and to the death. Due to the zeitgeist’s 
nature, he is unaffected by the major temporal effects. 
In fact, those effects are now tied to his existence. When 
the zeitgeist is killed, the major temporal effects end 
immediately. The lesser temporal effects will gradually 
fade, disappearing entirely within the next 8 hours after 
Demir’s death.
Concluding the Adventure
The PCs’ work may be done—with regard to the terms 
for any patrons that may have hired them—once Demir’s 
ritual fails, or it may require his death, for while no new 
temporal effects appear after the ritual is ended, existing 
ones will remain as long as Demir lives on as a zeitgeist. 
However, though he blames the party for his failure and 
would gladly kill them, they don’t need to fight. He can’t 
perform any further rituals in his current form, and he 
can’t even leave the site as he is now bound to it, though 
bouncing through various times in that same locale. 
If he is killed, any remaining Heralds of the Shining 
Dawn will flee, confused and demoralized at this 
unexpected turn. However, if Xandar Demir is left 
alive in his current form, that may embolden surviving 
members of the Shining Dawn to rebuild the cult, 
perhaps returning to break Demir from the temporal 
storm that tosses him back and forth through time and 
to restore him to normal. If this happens, the focus of 
his vengeance will surely switch from Enkada Pishtuhk 
to the PCs.
ENKADA’S SHADOW
Should the PCs defeat the Shining Dawn and dispose 
of Xandar Demir, when they return to Area 1, they 
are approached by a living shadow, resembling 
a hooded and robed humanoid figure with two 
yellow eyes shining amid its dark form. This is 
Enkada Pishtuhk’s magical shadow. The shadow 
makes no hostile moves but speaks to the PCs in 
a soft but deep voice, saying the following:
“My master congratulates you on your success 
here. Your actions have pleased Enkada 
Pishtuhk and thus should be rewarded.”
Attacking Enkada’s shadow will simply cause it to 
flee. While this will not raise Enkada’s ire, it means the 
adventurers forfeit any hope of the aforementioned 
reward. If the PCs respond without hostility or any 
hint of impoliteness, the shadow provides them with 
directions to one of Enkada’s many caches of magical 
goods hidden in the Western Wastes. Following these 
instructions leads the PCs to a hiding spot where they 
can claim a periapt of proof against poison. The ancient 
mage sometimes forgets to mention what safeguards or 
guardians there might be defending such caches, so feel 
free to have a monster or magical trap the PCs first must 
bypass before they are able to claim their reward.

--- PAGE 146 ---
144
THE UNDYING FLAME
The adventure begins in an unspecified location within 
the Northlands and ends in a dormant volcano within the 
Troll’s Teeth Mountains, but it can easily be adapted to 
any northern region with nearby mountains.
Adventure Background
The bitter winters, unforgiving landscape, and hostile 
giants, werewolves, and other terrifying creatures 
make life in the Northlands brutal for its humanoid 
inhabitants. While communities and families work hard 
to blunt the worst of the Northlands’ threats, none of 
them can proclaim true safety. The Cult of the Undying 
Flame, devoted to Alsikaya, the Screeching Mother of 
Volcanoes (see Tome of Beasts 2), exploits the desire for 
a sanctuary by creating the enclave of Havenhearth. 
The cultists found the complex carved into a high, 
lone plateau that was home to a dormant volcano, 
which the cult has reawakened through their initial 
wave of sacrifices. To bolster their supply of sacrifices, 
cultists travel the Northlands looking for loners, people 
dissatisfied with their communities, and others whose 
extended absence would not raise concern. They act as 
“guides” to Havenhearth, leading their charges through 
the hazards surrounding the enclave. Several of the 
cultists pretend to be ordinary folk living among those 
seeking refuge in Havenhearth, so they can identify 
troublemakers and others suitable for sacrifice. When 
they secretly mark someone for sacrifice, they pretend 
to the others to exile the victim, using one of the cultists 
to appear like the victim and pretend to walk away from 
the enclave. They occasionally mix in a real exile to throw 
off suspicion within the enclave and for those who might 
go amiss. They carry out their sacrifices judiciously to 
appease Alsikaya while not alarming their fodder. 
Ultimately, the Cult of the Undying Flame plans to 
induce their volcano to erupt for a pyroclastic mass 
sacrifice to its demon mistress, who will then ignite all the 
Northlands’ dormant volcanoes.
Adventure Summary
Once the party undertakes the mission to find and 
investigate Havenhearth, they must locate the enclave 
through one of the few available options. If they travel to 
Havenhearth alone, they confront a pair of troll guardians 
and encounter dangerous terrain. Assuming the party 
doesn’t immediately instigate an assault on the enclave, 
the cultists welcome them and allow them respite. 
During their visit, they witness the “exiling” of one 
of the residents. As they investigate further, they gain 
a growing sense of something being wrong, forcing 
the cultists to truly exile the group or grab the most 
bothersome PC. The PCs then breach the lower 
chambers and must fight cultists and demonic guardians 
to access the rest of the lair. The PCs’ intrusion forces the 
cultists to accelerate their ultimate sacrifice, welcoming 
their untimely deaths to bring Alsikaya into Midgard. 
They must stop the cultists while contending with 
extreme heat and tremors.
Adventure Hook
The party could seek out Havenhearth for several 
reasons. A GM with time and opportunity could seed 
rumors about the sanctuary to pique the party’s interest. 
More directly, an NPC familiar to the party could leave 
for Havenhearth, and the PCs learn about the NPC’s 
departure during a visit to the NPC’s home. Finally, a 
village leader may hire the party to locate a relative with 
whom the leader had become estranged, and the relative 
left a cryptic message about finding a more welcoming 
family in Havenhearth.
Finding Havenhearth 
Regardless of the reason for the PCs to travel to the 
sanctuary held by the Cult of the Undying Flame, they 
must first confront the difficulty of locating the place. 
Havenhearth is located on a plateau contained within the 
remotely populated Troll’s Teeth Mountains. The cult 
avoids sharing its location with outsiders to avoid having 
an armed force show up at their doorstep, increasing its 
obscurity. However, the party has several options to find 
the enclave.
For 9th-Level Characters

--- PAGE 147 ---
145
The PCs are at a level where one could use divination 
spells to give them a general idea of the direction and 
distance to Havenhearth. If the PCs are searching for 
someone specific and have learned enough details about 
the target to familiarize themselves, then the locate 
person spell gives a clear idea of the target’s location.
If the PCs investigate in a village where one of the 
inhabitants left with an Undying Flame guide, they 
discover the person was inquisitive enough to convince 
a cultist to carelessly divulge the rough distance and 
direction. That person then shared the information with 
a relative for reassurance.
Since the cult employs guides who search for 
prospective sacrifices, the PCs can find one (a cult 
fanatic) and present themselves as possible candidates. 
Convincing the cultist of one’s sincerity requires a 
successful DC 15 Charisma (Deception or Persuasion) 
check. The DC increases by 2 for each additional PC 
after the first since the cultist is reticent to bring multiple 
people who know each other into the fold.
If the characters are at an impasse, they stumble upon 
Javith Gren, an exile from Havenhearth, who gives 
them coherent instructions and a general feel for the 
enclave. Javith’s “crime” was theft, but he claims to have 
not stolen anything and believes his questions about 
Havenhearth’s leadership led to the banishment. 
He knows nothing about the creatures on the way 
to the enclave (other than possibly noting the “strange 
snowperson” outside the pass) or any of the hazards, 
having avoided those on his way out. Note, this 
encounter might be useful even if the PCs know how to 
reach Havenhearth.
TROLL PATROL
A light snow begins to fall, bringing a sense of 
peace to the journey. This serenity is cut short by 
a whispered question: “Where is it?”
Two ash trolls (see Appendix), serving the 
Cult of the Undying Flame, act as an initial 
deterrent to unaccompanied travelers drawing 
close to Havenhearth. When they encounter 
people without a cultist guide, they pretend to 
demand the location of the enclave and combat 
those who refuse to provide the information. The trolls 
know their deceit won’t hold up to scrutiny, so they grow 
impatient with those who question them or come close to 
the truth about their loyalties. They have no intention of 
forfeiting their lives here, so they flee when one of them 
drops below 20 hit points. Surviving trolls return fully 
healed to harass the party within 2–3 hours unless the 
PCs attempt to conceal their tracks through the snow. 
The trolls continue to do so until the PCs reach the pass 
leading to Havenhearth.
TERROR AT THE PASS
The trail leads to a pass cutting through a mountain range. 
The icy stretch is wide enough to fit two people side-by-side 
with some discomfort. A cheerful snowperson stands 10 
feet from the entrance to the pass, its left arm raised as if 
in greeting.
A snow terror (see Tome of Beasts 2), a gift from 
Alsikaya to the cult, guards the pass and attacks anyone 
approaching without an accompanying cultist. It always 
assumes its innocent snowperson guise and greets

--- PAGE 148 ---
146
travelers about 20 feet from the pass, even though 
its incongruity may draw suspicion. It hopes its odd 
appearance distracts intruders from the pits it has dug 
out and covered with a thin layer of snow, which the 
cultists know to avoid.
Snow Pits. Three snow pits randomly placed 20–30 
feet from the pass’s entrance await the unwary. When a 
creature steps anywhere in the pit’s 10-foot square, the 
layer of snow gives way, dumping the creature 30 feet 
into the pit below unless it succeeds on a DC 17 Dexterity 
saving throw. The pit’s walls are sheer ice, requiring 
a trapped creature to succeed on a DC 15 Strength 
(Athletics) check to scale. 
Prevention. A successful DC 19 Wisdom (Perception) 
or DC 15 Wisdom (Survival) check alerts a character to a 
pit’s presence and allows them to walk around it. Topping 
a pit with a stout tarp or other covering allows free 
movement across the pit.
Treasure. The cult collects most of the items belonging 
to the snow terror’s victims. However, the creature has 
secreted away insoluble mementos from its kills: a ruby 
worth 100 gp and a sapphire worth 250 gp.
FALLING ICICLES
Inches-long icicles hang from the trees in this forest and 
lightly chime as they sway in the breeze. Through the trees, 
you can see a plateau, smoke rising from it.
The cult maintains this section of the forest, with its 
dangerous, spear-like icicles, as it provides the most direct 
route to Havenhearth.
Icicle Spears. Sound and vibration dislodge the icicles, 
which impale those below. Anything above whispered 
conversation disturbs them as does walking heavily. A 
creature passing through the area must make a DC 16 
passive Dexterity (Stealth) check. On a failure, 1d4 icicles 
fall on the creature. Each icicle makes a ranged attack with 
a +9 bonus. If an icicle hits the creature, the target takes 
9 (2d8) piercing damage and 4 (1d8) cold damage. If a 
creature fails the check by 5 or more, all creatures within 
10 feet of the creature are subject to the above attacks.
Prevention. A successful DC 20 Wisdom (Perception) 
check or DC 17 Wisdom (Survival) or Intelligence 
(Investigation) check realizes the icicles’ inherent danger. 
Armed with this knowledge, creatures can make their 
Dexterity (Stealth) checks with a die roll. A successful 
DC 13 Intelligence (Arcana) check reveals that a spell or 
effect that deals thunder damage causes the icicles to fall, 
rendering the area harmless afterward. 
A success by 5 or more also informs the character 
that the area of effect for such a spell or effect increases 
by 50% (thus a 20-foot-radius burst would affect icicles 
in a 30-foot-radius burst). Each creature in the area is 
subject to the icicles’ attacks.
Welcome to Havenhearth
A 40-foot-tall plateau comes into view, venting smoke 
from its top. The ice-and-snow-covered ground give way 
to muddy fields, which then become arable land. The 
temperature becomes pleasant upon approach to the 
plateau, equivalent to those of early summer days in the 
Northlands, rather than the current early winter cold.
Stairs carved out of the rock climb all four faces of 
the roughly rectangular plateau. Only the north face 
features an entrance, while the other three stairs end at 
walls. A successful DC 18 Intelligence (Investigation) or 
Wisdom (Perception) check notes the walls have subtle 
differences to the surrounding rock. 
The plateau has a gentle slope, and a successful DC 10 
Strength (Athletics) check allows a creature to scale the 
slope without the benefit of the stairs.
Three commoners work the fields nearest the plateau 
and notice the PCs’ arrival, provided the party doesn’t 
approach stealthily. Two of them hail the newcomers 
while the third climbs the steps to the entryway. 
Moments later, the battle mage (see Creature Codex) 
Zeren Brusch greets the PCs and invites them to the 
enclave’s entrance. 
Unless the PCs have somehow convinced a guide to 
escort them to Havenhearth, Zeren calmly explains he 
must interview prospective inhabitants individually. 
He leads each PC to Area 5 (going along the passage 
east of the common area and cutting through the 
nearest entrance).
If asked about the process, he promises a short 
interview with simple questions. He has a +4 bonus on 
Wisdom (Insight) checks.
“Name?”
Zeren doesn’t react to any name given but remembers 
it for any possible contradictions in later conversations.
STATUS IN MIDGARD
If you are using Status (see Midgard Worldbook) and 
the PCs foil the cult’s plans and save the innocents, 
the PCs gain +2 to their Status with the survivors and 
their communities and +1 to their Status with other 
communities within a week’s journey of Havenhearth. 
These modifiers stack with similar Status modifiers 
the PCs may possess.

--- PAGE 149 ---
147
“Place of birth?”
If a PC balks at this question, Zeren shrugs and asks, 
“Surely, you’re not embarrassed about the place from 
which you hail?”
“Trade?”
Zeren accepts most applicable trades but raises an 
eyebrow at “adventurer” or similar responses. He states, 
“We have no need for adventurers here. This place is a 
haven, and mercenaries are bad for morale.” He then 
prompts for something useful the PC can contribute to 
the group.
   “Have you ever killed anyone?”
If given an affirmative answer, Zeren follows up with 
a question about the circumstances around the killing. 
Zeren gives the PC an additional chance to answer the 
question if he detects a lie. If he doesn’t like the answers 
to this round of questions, he ends the interview and 
sadly states the PC is not fit to live in Havenhearth.
   “Have you ever stolen from someone who trusted you?”
This question provokes the same reaction from Zeren 
as the previous question.
If Zeren is satisfied with the answers, he eases into 
small talk, asking the PC about their association 
with the other characters, how they heard about 
Havenhearth, aspects of the journey to the enclave, and 
related topics. If the interview ends with Zeren turning 
the PC away, this doesn’t directly impact the other 
characters’ chances to remain in Havenhearth.
HAVENHEARTH EVENTS
The following list details some day-to-day activities 
taking place in the enclave. These events could serve as 
inspiration for other occurrences that alert the PCs to 
something off about Havenhearth.
The Hunt. One or more PCs receive an invite to hunt 
a deer. Three commoners and a cult fanatic disguised 
as a commoner fill out the group. During the hunt, the 
cult fanatic attempts to cast sacred flame surreptitiously, 
requiring a successful DC 13 Wisdom (Perception) or 
Intelligence (Arcana) check to notice. If questioned 
about this, the cultist claims the plateau’s radiance filled 
her with power, and she wanted to use it.
Proficiency Challenge. Several members of 
Havenhearth compete in a crafting contest based on one 
of the trades given by the PCs during their interviews. 
Zeren provides tools and materials to every participant 
and encourages the relevant PC(s) to show off their 
prowess. The materials given to the PCs are poor 
quality, giving them disadvantage on ability checks 
to complete the challenge. Each participant makes an 
ability check. The group gently mocks those with results 
of 5 or less than the winner’s results, which seems to 
alienate the losers.
Exile. Zeren reports the sad news that one of the 
residents has been found stealing from another resident. 
This could be someone with whom the PCs have 
become acquainted or one of the residents who keeps to 
themselves. The wrongdoer is ushered into the offices 
(Areas 5–7), and the door at Area 4 is locked while 
Zeren prepares the person for exile. A few minutes later, 
he and another cultist lead the “offender” (cloaked and 
hooded, ostensibly to keep them from looking at or 
speaking to the residents, but a cultist has replaced the 
actual victim) out of the enclave and down the plateau.
Group Exercise. When the cult needs to access the 
secret door, usually to carry a sacrifice to the lower level, 
they call for the entire enclave to leave the plateau’s 
confines and enjoy the fresh air. Zeren and a couple of 
SLOW BURN OR FULL BOIL?
Understandably, the PCs will have suspicions about 
Havenhearth, which eventually bear out. However, the 
people who have sought shelter here are comfortable 
with their existences and react accordingly to open 
hostility by the party. 
While 20 or so commoners (with a few cult fanatics 
mixed in) won’t pose a real threat to the PCs, the party 
should hesitate to slaughter a bunch of innocents on 
the way to defeating the cult.
The pace for the cult’s revelation is adaptable, and 
the events listed below provide options to uncover the 
enclave’s true purpose. The PCs might settle in for a 
couple of days and witness someone falsely accused 
of a crime for which exile is the punishment. They may 
discover the secret door leading to the lower level or 
spy someone using the entrance under the mistaken 
belief of going unobserved. 
Concrete proof may get some of the current residents 
on the PCs’ side or at least allow the PCs to evacuate 
some of the residents before hell breaks loose.

--- PAGE 150 ---
148
other known Havenhearth leaders take the group through 
a series of stretching exercises, which last for an hour. One 
of the cultists stands at the entryway and bars passage into 
the plateau.
Muffled Scream. The cultists sacrifice their victims at 
dawn, and their latest victim managed to work free of the 
gag. The sacrifice lets out a blood-chilling scream as they 
burn to death. A successful DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) 
check hears the scream. The residents claim not to have 
heard the scream and dismiss it as a creature outside the 
plateau. Zeren likewise downplays the scream.
The Glow. The night after a sacrifice, the southeast 
portion of the passageways outside the common room 
takes on a reddish hue. A successful DC 11 Wisdom 
(Perception) check notices it from the common room, 
but anyone who exits the common room to the 
south or east into the surrounding passageways 
automatically notices it. Anyone who moves to 
the area perceives a noticeable rise in temperature 
but not enough to become uncomfortable. 
Long-time residents brush it off since they have 
seen it infrequently. If someone asks Zeren or 
one of the other disguised cultists, they explain 
the plateau is heated by an underground magma 
flow, but they have had no concern about its ebb 
and flow.
Havenhearth Upper Level
The plateau supporting Havenhearth formed when this 
region was volcanically active. Magma carved out paths 
through the plateau’s upper region, creating a large, 
natural chamber. When followers of Thor claimed this 
area as an outpost, they built a living area and a hidden 
storage area and hideout beneath the living area. 
A few decades ago, the warriors abandoned the 
outpost. Most of it has remained intact, apart from 
collateral damage from a battle fought in the eastern 
part of the outpost, making it ideal for the Cult of the 
Undying Flame.
The rough passages surrounding the constructed 
chambers vary in height from 8 to 15 feet. The cultists 
blocked off all but the northern passage to the plateau, 
and the walls require 15 minutes of hard labor to destroy. 
The outer area is unlit, but illumination filters out from 
the common area, creating dim light. The constructed 
portion of this level has 10-foot-high ceilings, except for 
the common room, which has a 20-foot-high ceiling. The 
common room’s central fire and torches lit throughout 
the rest of the complex provide bright light, except where 
otherwise noted.
AREA 1: ENTRYWAY
A narrow passage cuts through the top of the plateau 
and leads south 10 feet before opening into a wider 
T-intersection. A set of rough-hewn stairs climbs to 
the south.
The cultists walled off all the other passages exiting the 
plateau, leaving only this passage. When they decide to 
enact their ultimate sacrifice, they plan to close off this 
exit as well.
Rockfall. A concealed hatch blocks several hundred 
pounds of loose rocks. A lever in Area 10 of the lower 
level triggers this trap. Alternatively, a successful DC 16 
Dexterity (thieves’ tools) check opens the hatch, albeit 
unsafely. When the rocks are released, they completely 
fill the 10-foot corridor, crushing everything within. 
Each creature in the area must make a DC 18 Dexterity 
saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 28 
(8d6) bludgeoning damage and is both prone and 
restrained. On a successful save, the creature takes half as 
much damage and is not otherwise affected. A creature, 
or any adjacent creature, can take its action to free itself 
with a successful DC 12 Strength (Athletics) check.

--- PAGE 151 ---
149
Prevention. A successful DC 16 Wisdom (Perception) 
or Intelligence (Investigation) check finds the hatch. A 
successful DC 19 Dexterity (thieves’ tools) check jams 
the hatch mechanism, rendering the lever useless.
AREA 2: COMMON ROOM
This massive, 80-foot-diameter chamber is supported by 
eight columns that reach 20 feet to the ceiling above. A 
20-foot-diameter hole cut into the ceiling allows the fire 
to vent. Thirty cots line the walls, and most of them have 
modest belongings bundled underneath. A set of stairs 
leads down 10 feet out of the chamber in most cardinal 
directions, but the eastern set has been destroyed.
Havenhearth’s residents live and work in this 
chamber. The fire provides constant warmth and bright 
light with the illumination fading to dim light in the 
chamber’s furthest reaches (the area beyond the pillars) 
to allow for comfortable rest.
The Undying Flame. A cookpot usually sits atop a 
pile of wood, which burns endlessly. A successful DC 13 
Intelligence (Arcana) check realizes this is equivalent to 
a continual flame spell. Succeeding by 5 or more reveals 
the source as the plateau.
Meet Your Neighbors. Havenhearth’s residents 
number 22 commoners and six cult fanatics, who blend 
in with the commoners. Most keep to themselves, but the 
PCs have the chance to acquaint themselves with some of 
1
2
3
4
6
5
7
8

--- PAGE 152 ---
150
them. The below examples should give the PCs people to 
relate to as they discover Havenhearth’s secrets:
•	 Kareena Desmontague. A cultist who pretends 
to be one of Havenhearth’s earliest residents, this 
human spy establishes an easy rapport with most new 
arrivals. She susses out troublemakers by providing a 
sympathetic ear to conspiratorial musings. Kareena 
often stages thefts to remove those she believes pose a 
threat to the cult.
•	 Meerie Fitzgray. This friendly and welcoming halfling 
commoner arrived 18 months ago and is the most 
likely person to introduce herself to newcomers. She 
believes she knows the enclave better than anyone 
else since she is one of the enclave’s senior residents. 
Meerie verges on nosiness when talking to others and 
tends to gossip, which helps Kareena with her duties.
•	 Vinyu Nisp. The cultists found this human commoner 
in his early 20s wandering away from the remains of 
his village after a devastating frost giant attack. One 
of the PCs reminds Vinyu of a village elder, so he is 
drawn to that PC.
•	 Berendor and Finnian Hallowhall. The dwarf 
Berendor arrived with his young son 7 months ago and 
ran afoul of Havenhearth law when Finnian innocently 
grabbed another resident’s necklace. Faced with exile 
or death for him and his son, Berendor agreed to join 
the cult. The PCs may be able to sway this cult fanatic 
if they assure him they can protect his son.
AREA 3: ENTRANCE TO THE LOWER LEVEL
A stone slab fits seamlessly with the rest of the wall, 
concealing a passage behind it.
The cult never uses the secret entrance leading to the 
complex’s lower level in view of the ordinary residents.
Locked and Trapped Secret Door. A successful DC 20 
Wisdom (Perception) check discovers the nearly invisible 
seams marking the door. A successful DC 12 Intelligence 
(Investigation) check concludes that symmetrical doors 
must exist at all walls. A success by 5 or more on this 
check discovers wear on the floor near this entrance. 
The door has been sealed with arcane lock. A successful 
DC 25 Dexterity (thieves’ tools) check unlocks the door. 
Speaking the phrase, “Mother is expecting me,” opens 
the door and bypasses the lock and the trap. If the PCs 
somehow sneak in when the common room is empty 
(per the “group exercise” event above), they hear Zeren 
or one of the other cultists speak this phrase.
The door is trapped with a glyph of warding. If the door 
is opened without speaking the above phrase, it triggers 
a pyroclastic burst spell (save DC 18, see Appendix) 
centered on the creature that triggered the glyph.
Prevention. A successful DC 20 Intelligence 
(Investigation) check uncovers the glyph etched on the 
door’s center. Detect magic or another such spell reveals 
the glyph’s abjuration aura. A successful dispel magic 
(DC 14) cast on the door destroys the glyph.
AREA 4: ENTRANCE TO THE LEADERSHIP AREA
This wooden door blocks entrance to the chambers beyond.
During the day, this door remains open, allowing 
access to Zeren and his lieutenants. When discussing 
an exile or other matters important to Havenhearth’s 
administration, the door is locked. A successful DC 20 
Dexterity (thieves’ tools) check unlocks the door.
AREA 5: ZEREN’S OFFICE AND QUARTERS
This tidy room holds a cot and several cushions arranged 
in a circle. Stairs lead up to the west out of this room, two 
doors open to the east, and a set of barred and locked 
double doors open to the south.
Zeren Brusch oversees Havenhearth’s operations 
from here. He arranges hunting and growing schedules 
and uses this room to interview new arrivals and settle 
disputes between residents. As his focus is on the 
residents, he tries not to involve himself in cult activity, 
mostly so he can enjoy some plausible deniability when 
asked about any strange goings-on.
Locked and Barred Door. This door is barred to 
prevent entrance from the south. If asked, Zeren casually 
says, “Sometimes we get unwelcome guests from 
outside.” A successful DC 15 Dexterity (thieves’ tools) 
check unlocks the door, and a successful DC 13 Strength 
(Athletics) check breaks through the wood holding the 
door shut.
AREA 6: GENAVIE BARTOSS’S QUARTERS
Tanned and stretched animal skins adorn this otherwise 
sparse room’s walls. 
The human scout Genavie spends much of her time 
outside, preferring open spaces to the plateau’s confines. 
She often leads the enclave’s hunts.
Treasure. When not out on a hunt or otherwise 
required to be armed, Genavie stores her +1 longbow on 
a rack above her cot.

--- PAGE 153 ---
151
AREA 7: JERILLE QUENN’S QUARTERS
Contrasting with Zeren’s office, this room is a 
disorganized mess. Clothes and parchment lie strewn 
about the area, and smudges of dark ink mark the walls 
and floor.
Jerille, an elfmarked mage (replacing greater 
invisibility with dimension door, under Spellcasting), 
scribes scrolls for the cultists and provides surreptitious 
travel when the cult can’t use the secret door in Area 3.
Treasure. The mage lost a ring of cold resistance amid 
the chaos and hasn’t bothered to find it since he hasn’t 
ventured beyond Havenhearth recently.
AREA 8: FORMER SHRINE TO THOR
This nook holds a statue only recognizable as a bipedal 
humanoid. Its features have eroded, and one of its arms 
has broken off, leaving a pile of rubble at the base.
The warriors dedicated to Thor fought giants, dragons, 
and other beasts prevalent in this region. They created 
this shrine to Thor and received blessings from the god. 
Disease and attrition from battle forced the warriors to 
desert the remote location, but they had driven away 
most of the horrors they combatted, making this a 
relatively safe home for the Cult of the Undying Flame to 
take over.
A successful DC 20 Intelligence (Religion) check 
manages to identify the statue as Thor. A successful 
DC 18 Intelligence (Investigation) check recognizes the 
statue’s more recent defacement and uncovers Abyssal 
runes reading, “Mother is coming.” 
If asked, Zeren nor any of the new arrivals claim to 
know anything about the vandalism.
Havenhearth Lower Level
The builders of this section of Havenhearth constructed 
it for security. The hallways have 8-foot-tall ceilings, most 
of the remaining rooms have 10-foot-tall ceilings, and 
the central chamber of Area 14 has a 15-foot-tall ceiling. 
Bright light illuminates this level unless otherwise noted.
AREA 9: BOTTOM OF THE STAIRS
The stairs descend 20 feet to a landing at a junction in a 
5-foot-wide hallway, leading north and west. A bright-
red glow suffuses the area, as does a light haze carrying a 
faint odor of sulfur.
If the PCs avoided setting off the trap and the cult is not 
on alert, the hallway is quiet. Otherwise, two cult fanatics 
attempt to hold off the intruders. Additionally, any cultists 
remaining in the upper level arrive after 1d6 rounds and 
each subsequent round thereafter. Any named cultist 
avoids combat and makes haste for Area 17 to help enact 
the cult’s pyrrhic ritual.
AREA 10: DEFILED CRYPT
Once a place for honorable burial, this crypt has been 
thoroughly desecrated. Black candles fill the room with 
smoke, and the formerly interred bodies lie charred on 
the ground. A raised lever juts from the center of the 
northern wall.
Four of the bodies rise as tar ghouls (see Creature 
Codex) 1 round after someone opens the southern door 
if the phrase, “Mother is expecting me,” is not uttered.
Lever. The lever triggers the trap in Area 1 of 
Havenhearth’s upper level. A successful DC 19 
Intelligence (Investigation) check realizes the connection 
between this lever and the trap. A successful DC 14 
Dexterity (thieves’ tools) check jams the lever, so it can’t 
be thrown.
Secret Door. For additional security, a hidden door 
hides the storeroom and auxiliary living quarters from 
view. A successful DC 17 Wisdom (Perception) check 
notices a shift in light along the floor. The door is 
unlocked and swings open easily.
AREA 11: STOREROOM
This empty room held stacks of crates at one point, 
indicated by the stains and slight indentations. A door to 
the east provides an exit.
The enclave’s former inhabitants kept a few days’ 
provisions in case they needed to wait out a siege on their 
outpost. The cultists moved the crates and dug out a pit to 
torment their victims awaiting sacrifice.
Pit Trap. When a creature steps in one of the areas 
denoted by the X on the map, the trap activates. The 
creature must succeed on a DC 17 Dexterity saving throw 
or fall 15 feet into a lava-heated pit. At the beginning of 
each of its turns, the creature takes 4 (1d8) fire damage.
Prevention. A successful DC 17 Intelligence 
(Investigation) or Wisdom (Perception) check notices 
the incongruities in the floor.
Treasure. One of the previous sacrifices dropped a 
ring set with a garnet, defiantly preventing the cult from 
obtaining the item. The ring is worth 150 gp.

--- PAGE 154 ---
152
AREA 12: MACABRE KITCHEN
This combination dining hall and kitchen contains a 
small table with three chairs arranged around it and 
a couple of food preparation stations in the southern 
corners. Charred, severed limbs lie discarded near the 
southeastern station. A door exits this room to the south.
Alsikaya sends random messengers through the portal 
to her domain, including the occasional alnaar demon 
(see Creature Codex). The cultists keep the limbs on 
hand to feed one of these eternally hungry demons, so it 
won’t devour them instead.
AREA 13: LIVING QUARTERS
A quick, 5-foot descent down a set of stairs leads to this 
chamber. Two cots each line the eastern and western 
walls, and four heavy cloaks adorned with flame motifs 
hang from hooks on the southern wall.
When the cultists aren’t communing with their demon 
mistress or sacrificing victims to her, they recuperate 
here. Currently, two cult fanatics attempt to keep a 
glabrezu demon messenger entertained, and they all 
welcome the interruption provided by the party.
AREA 14: CENTRAL CHAMBER
A 20-foot-diameter column fills 
the center of this 50-foot‑diameter 
chamber. The load-bearing column 
glows bright red. A 10-foot-wide 
staircase descends to the east, and 
a doorway to the south opens to 
another chamber. The hallway leading 
to the staircase to the upper level cuts 
through a 10-foot-wide passageway, 
exiting west from this area.
Four cult fanatics are stationed in 
this room and stand guard against 
intruders who might breach the 
inner sanctum. They don’t leave 
this room to pursue PCs traversing 
other parts of the lower level, instead 
assuming the other threats will 
dispatch trespassers. However, once 
they are sure Area 10 is clear, one 
of the cult fanatics moves there to 
throw the lever and trap everyone 
inside the complex.
Red-Hot Pillar. A creature that moves adjacent to 
the pillar must succeed on a DC 14 Constitution saving 
throw or take 3 (1d6) fire damage. If a creature is shoved 
into the pillar or otherwise forced to make contact with 
the pillar, it must make a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw, 
taking 7 (2d6) fire damage on a failed save or half as 
much on a successful save.
AREA 15: LIBRARY
This may have once been a repository of knowledge as two 
empty bookshelves in the southeastern corner and a mostly 
empty bookshelf in the northwest corner attest. The sole 
book in the northwest corner sits open, violently spewing 
sulfurous smoke throughout the room. A door exits on the 
southwest side, and an opening in the north leads to a large 
circular chamber.
The smoke reduces this room’s illumination to dim 
light. An assassin loyal to the cult hides in the alcove 
behind the bookshelves to the southeast. A successful DC 
14 Wisdom (Perception) check notices the gap between 
the bookshelves and the alcove beyond. The assassin 
recognizes the sound of the key used to open the door 
and can differentiate it from attempts to bypass the lock 
with thieves’ tools, so she is aware of intruders entering 
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17

--- PAGE 155 ---
153
that way. The cult fanatics in Area 14 make enough noise 
to put her on guard too.
Treasure. Though devoted to the Cult of the Undying 
Flame, the assassin can’t bear to give up her worldly 
possessions. She carries four diamonds worth 500 gp 
each and wears a necklace fashioned from cold iron 
worth 775 gp.
Locked Door. The southwestern door is locked to 
prevent access from the hallway to the west. All named 
cultists have a key. Otherwise, a successful DC 17 
Dexterity (thieves’ tools) check unlocks the door.

--- PAGE 156 ---
154
AREA 16: ANTECHAMBER
Heat radiates from the door to the south, bringing the 
temperature of this 20-foot-diameter chamber to a swelter.
Two ash trolls (see Appendix) act as the last line of 
defense to prevent access to the ritual chamber.
Locked Door. Out of an abundance of paranoia, the 
cult always keeps this door locked. Uttering the phrase, 
“Mother, I seek your embrace,” grants someone access to 
Area 17. 
Otherwise, a successful DC 19 Dexterity (thieves’ tools) 
check unlocks the door. The creature attempting the 
check must succeed on a DC 17 Dexterity saving throw or 
take 5 (1d10) fire damage from the door’s intense heat.
AREA 17: DORMANT VOLCANO
The heat in this 30-foot-diameter chamber is unbearable. 
The source of the heat, a 10-foot-diameter pool of lava, 
glows a lurid red as vague shapes swim near its surface.
Desperate to bring Alsikaya into the world and 
forced by the party’s intrusion to act immediately, the 
remaining cultists perform a ritual that will transform 
the plateau into an active volcano, violently destroying 
the complex and everyone inside. A cult fanatic 
(possessing 54 hp and immunity to fire) stands in the 
pool’s center to act as a conduit. The cult fanatic benefits 
from an effect similar to the blur spell while within the 
pool. Three additional cult fanatics block access to 
the conduit and to the priest conducting the ritual and 
replace the cultist in the lava pool if necessary. The priest 
uses a void speaker’s stats (see Creature Codex), except 
their power is fueled by Alsikaya rather than the Void.
Ambient Heat. At the beginning of each non-cultist’s 
turn, the creature must succeed on a DC 14 Constitution 
saving throw or take 4 (1d8) fire damage and have 
disadvantage on future saves against this effect.
Lava Pool. Moving into or through the lava pool is 
extremely dangerous. A creature that moves into or 
begins its turn within the lava takes 55 (10d10) fire 
damage.
Summon Magmin (Recharge 3–6). At initiative count 
0, the lava pool disgorges a magmin, which appears in any 
open square in the chamber. The first time a 6 is rolled for 
the recharge, an alnaar demon appears instead.
Tremors (Recharge 2–6). The ground violently 
quakes for the ritual’s duration. At initiative count 10, 
all creatures (except the conduit and the priest) must 
succeed on a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw or fall prone.
Completing the Ritual. The time to complete the 
ritual is up to the GM and the pace of this encounter, 
but if the GM desires a truly random amount of time, 
assume 2d6 + 2 rounds. 
Once the ritual is complete, every creature in the 
immediate area takes 70 (20d6) fire damage while all other 
creatures in Havenhearth takes 35 (10d6) fire damage.
Concluding the Adventure
Provided the party ended the ritual and averted 
catastrophe, they can make Havenhearth a true 
sanctuary. If the PCs must move on to other adventures, 
the inhabitants may look to them to name a leader. 
Meerie desires the role but gladly accepts the party’s 
decision. If the party decides the best course is to 
abandon Havenhearth, they must escort the survivors to 
their former homes or help find new homes for refugees.
Alsikaya is aware of the party’s meddling and seeks 
her revenge against the PCs. The party’s next visit to a 
volcano may prove exceedingly dangerous.

--- PAGE 157 ---
155
THE SHADOW’S ENVY
This adventure takes place in the Summer Lands and in 
the demesne called the Blot, a projection of the Shadow 
Realm intent on consuming the Summer Lands. It can be 
adapted to any region where the fey hold dominion. 
Adventure Background
The creature now known as the Weft of Shadows was 
once a planar elf named Qeldar who enjoyed the light 
and warmth of the Elflands just like his brothers and 
sisters. However, one day he met a shadow fey on one of 
his journeys along the shadow roads and spoke at length 
with her. After that encounter, he felt sorrow for the 
attachment of all shadow fey to the shadows and for their 
exile from his own home of light. 
Of course, he knew the shadow fey were once like 
him, and he had heard the stories about their turning to 
darkness. But idealistically, he believed they had suffered 
long enough and wanted them to rejoin the elves of the 
Summer Lands. After all, he reasoned, the shadow roads 
were connected to the Elflands and to the Shadow Realm, 
so the divide between summer elves and shadow fey was 
unnecessary and should be closed.
Qeldar first gained an audience with the Queen of Night 
and Magic, who hid her amusement at the elf’s proposal. 
She had no problem agreeing to close the gulf between 
the shadow fey and the elves he ostensibly represented, 
for she knew his naive efforts would result in failure, but 
she was delighted to witness his disappointment. If he 
achieved the miracle of bringing the Birch Queen and Oak 
and Holly Kings to his side, she would find some technical 
reason to back off from her promise.
Decades later, Qeldar finally met with the Holly King. 
The elf went into the meeting full of confidence, having 
used the intervening time to hone his arguments. He had 
also gathered a few allies convinced of the righteousness 
of his plan to unite the summer elves with the shadow 
fey. The Holly King gave Qeldar less than 10 minutes 
to make his case before flatly denying his request. 
Guards dragged the sputtering elf out as he continued 
to shout his arguments in vain. This would have been 
embarrassment enough for Qeldar, but nearby courtiers 
heard his impassioned plea to rejoin the elves. They 
whispered poetic yet ugly epithets about him, which 
spread far and wide. No longer wishing to be associated 
with the disgraced elf, Qeldar’s former allies left, either 
shunning him or joining in on the name-calling.
His calls for protest met with even more mockery, 
so he plotted to engineer a confrontation between the 
shadow fey and his people to show them there was no 
real difference between them. He researched a way to 
divert travel along the shadow roads and found a group 
of traveling shadow fey to forcibly bring to the Summer 
Lands. The surprised shadow fey, thinking they were 
under attack, drew weapons and attacked the equally 
surprised planar elves who defended themselves. Qeldar 
futilely tried to bring order to the chaotic scene, but 
the shadow fey were all dispatched. The summer elves 
charged him with treason for bringing shadow fey to 
the Elflands. His explanation fell on deaf ears, and his 
punishment was exile.
Consumed by rage but knowing he needed to bide 
his time, he brooded within the Shadow Realm and 
unknowingly drew shadows to him, which ever-so-slowly 
transformed him into something else. He approached 
the Queen of Night and Magic again, and she gave him 
a sympathetic audience as he described his anguish at 
his treatment. She claimed to be unable to work directly 
against her counterparts in the Summer Lands, but she 
slyly indicated several entities, shadow fey included, who 
no longer acquiesced to her. Many of these creatures were 
swayed by the shadowy Qeldar and allied with him.
The fully transformed and newly self-designated Weft of 
Shadows learned about several artifacts contained within a 
minor elf noble’s extraplanar vault in the Summer Lands. 
It wanted to use the artifacts to wreak havoc on Midgard, 
especially among the elves remaining there. It also wanted 
to create shadow copies of the artifacts that would allow it 
to grow a shadow blight to engulf the Elflands. However, 
it also learned about an unusual set of rules involved in 
the creation of the items: once mortal hands touched the 
artifacts, the summer elves could not reclaim them. This 
set of rules also indicated that only mortals could possess 
and use these artifacts, preventing the Weft from making 
its shadow duplicates while the artifacts remained in the 
vault. Two centuries ago, the Weft of Shadows broke into 
the vault and scattered the artifacts across Midgard to set 
its plans in motion.
The summer elf Daesanderena investigated the missing 
artifacts and realized the inherent danger in the Weft 
For 10th-Level Characters

--- PAGE 158 ---
156
STATUS IN MIDGARD
If you are using Status (see Midgard Worldbook) and 
the PCs defeat the Weft of Shadows, destroy the 
Blot, and free the captive souls of the elves, the PCs 
gain +1 to their Status with the elves of the Summer 
Lands—if somewhat begrudgingly—and also, perhaps 
surprisingly, with the Queen of Night and Magic. These 
modifiers stack with similar Status modifiers the PCs 
may possess.
of Shadows’s schemes. She found heroes to help her 
reclaim some of the artifacts (see the previous Wrath of 
the Bramble King and Pride of the Mushroom Queen 
chapters for examples of Daesanderena’s efforts to 
reclaim the artifacts). Despite her interference, the Weft 
was able to create an undetectable blight in the Summer 
Lands—an area it calls the Blot. As it brought more 
shadowy artifact duplicates to its new demesne, it was 
able to grow the Blot and draw more shadowy allies to it. 
The Weft of Shadows defined a horrific price for entry 
into its home, which serves to deter intruders from 
storming its lair. To its delight, this price incidentally 
prevents the planar elves from entering the Blot. Unless 
the planar elves find allies of their own from outside the 
Summer Lands, the Weft of Shadows will achieve its goal 
of uniting shadow fey and summer elves by consuming 
the Summer Lands in shadow.
Adventure Hooks
Daesanderena might know the PCs from previous 
adventures or discover them in her many searches for 
competent non-planar elves. She asks them to enter the 
Blot and destroy the Weft of Shadows before the Elflands 
are engulfed. Alternatively, the PCs could be traveling the 
shadow roads for unrelated business, and warps in their 
path caused by the Weft of Shadows dump them near the 
Blot. Or the PCs may have heard rumors about the Weft 
of Shadows and learn of its presence in the Elflands.
The Encroaching Shadow
Once in the Elflands, it should be clear to the PCs that 
most of the elves there don’t trust the PCs and resent 
Daesanderena for looking to outsiders to solve their 
problem. They openly talk about the PCs whether the PCs 
are within earshot or not. If the PCs are within earshot, 
the elves leave off all discussion about their efforts to stop 
the spread of the Blot. They become indignant if the PCs 
ask anyone other than Daesanderena about their efforts or 
for any information on the Blot. Daesanderena helpfully 
explains to the PCs that the Blot demands something in 
return for entrance, though they are uncertain what it 
demands. All elves from the Summer Lands who have 
attempted to breach the structure have disintegrated when 
they tried to enter, leaving only a vague shadowy outline 
where they once stood.
If the PCs ask for a reward for entering the Blot and 
destroying it and the Weft of Shadows, the planar elves 
become incensed at their presumption. Daesanderena, a 
practical elf more in tune with the ways of mortals, calms 
them down and offers to pay the PCs either 5,000 gp or 
with a ring of shooting stars or a scimitar of speed.
The Blot
Fed by an influx of shadow from the Shadow Realm, 
the Weft of Shadows’s lair continuously expands its 
boundaries. The Weft isn’t quite powerful enough to 
impose its will on the halls and rooms composing the 
complex, but it and its allies have worked together to 
physically mold the shadowstuff surrounding and filling 
the area. As the Blot creeps outward, it creates indistinct 
chambers that fool the senses when someone enters them. 
PCs have no problem navigating the chambers within the 
bounds presented on the map. However, it is possible to 
step beyond the boundaries into shadowstuff. When this 
happens, a creature must make a DC 15 Wisdom saving 
throw for every 5 feet it attempts to move within the 
shadow stuff. On a failure, the creature moves 5 feet in a 
random direction (roll a d8 to determine the direction). 
Creatures calling the Blot home can maneuver through 
the shadowstuff without the possibility of getting lost. 
While a creature is within the Blot’s hazy boundaries, all 
attacks against the creature have disadvantage.
Accessing the Blot requires a creature to give up its 
soul or essence. The Weft set up this failsafe to ensure 
that those who fled the compound would be unable to 
return. An additional unintended “side effect” is that the 
summer elves, who only consist of their essences, are 
wholly consumed when they attempt to enter the Blot, 
their essences becoming trapped in the Cauldron of Souls 
in Area 5.
The Blot is illuminated by dim light, and all colors are 
washed out in the gloom. The shadows consume light 
and continual flame spells, reducing their durations to 1 
minute and 10 minutes, respectively, and only allowing 
a 10-foot radius of bright light. Daylight lasts for 10 
minutes and sheds bright light out to 30 feet.
AREA 1: ENTRYWAY
A solid black door presents the only entrance to the Blot. 
It is the only fixed outer location in the complex. While 
the rest of the Blot stretches and flows as it extends its 
boundaries, the southern border remains unchanging. 
The door is inscribed with flowing gray script that reads, 
“Offer only your lightest possession, and you will be

--- PAGE 159 ---
157
permitted entry.” The Weft of Shadows enjoys what it 
sees as a taunting riddle, which doesn’t actually require 
a creature to solve it to gain entry. Merely touching the 
door transports a creature to its other side and to a set 
of stairs made of grasping shadowstuff. In the process, 
the creature loses its soul or essence, which teleports 
to Area 5, leaving the creature feeling lethargic and 
like something vital is missing. Exiting the Blot costs 
nothing, but a creature that hasn’t reobtained its soul or 
essence can’t reenter the complex. A successful DC 12 
Intelligence (Arcana or Religion) check understands this 
effect. A creature whose home plane is not the Material 
Plane or Shadow Realm is consumed by the Blot and 
ends up in the Cauldron of Souls in Area 5. 
AREA 2: SHADOW FEY BARRACKS
With the exception of the shadow fey, all the creatures 
residing in the Blot have no need for food, water, or 
rest. This spartan room serves as a place of recuperation 
for the few shadow fey guarding the complex. The Weft 
of Shadows intends to expand this room as it grows in 
power, knowing it must have an army of disposable 
minions to protect the Blot as it consumes more land 
and gains the attention of the Summer Lands’ rulers. As 
it stands, the Weft of Shadows doesn’t entirely trust the 
shadow fey, so it posts them near the entrance where they 
can repel intruders at no great cost to the Weft’s plans.
The Weft of Shadows’s distrust is not misplaced. The 
Queen of Night and Magic purposefully disowned the 
four shadow fey currently operating in the Blot, so she 
can retain the appearance of diplomatic neutrality. She 
enjoys the metaphysical punch in the nose delivered by 
the Weft of Shadows but wishes to suffer no backlash 
when its plans eventually fail. At the same time, she 
presents herself as an impartial adviser to the Weft. She 
subtly directed it to find allies not associated with her 
court, and the shadow fey quartet was conveniently 
available. One of them uses the shadow river to travel 
to the Shadow Realm and report on the Weft’s activities 
and the summer elves’ reactions to the queen.
Two shadow fey duelists (see Tome of Beasts) and a 
shadow fey enchantress (see Tome of Beasts) rest in the 
barracks. The duelists and enchantress find the shadow 
fey poisoner in Area 3 disturbing and tend to keep their 
distance from him. 
AREA 3: ANTECHAMBER
This room serves to comfortably seat visitors to the Blot 
while they await an audience with the Weft of Shadows. 
A long table and six chairs, all made of shadowstuff, 
stand against the northern wall, helping to conceal the 
secret door. A successful DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) 
check notices a cool spot on the wall where the secret 
door is hidden while a successful DC 15 Intelligence 
(Investigation) check discovers the door’s nearly 
imperceptible seams in the wall. The door is obvious 
from the other side.
A shadow fey poisoner (see Creature Codex) keeps an 
eye on arrivals from the shadow river flowing into Area 
9 and spends much of his time patrolling between Area 
3 and Area 9. He escorts Shadow Realm dignitaries to 
this chamber or helps the shadow river lord in Area 9 
repel intruders.
AREA 4: MOONLIT CHAMBER
A lunar devil (see Tome of Beasts) lairs in this chamber, 
which contains a shadow version of a gem of brightness 
that sheds moonlight rather than sunlight. The gem 
dissipates in a puff of black smoke if removed from the 
Blot. The devil sometimes roams the hall or checks in on 
the night hags in Area 5. While the Weft uses the devil 
to provide checks and balances against the night hags in 
Area 5, the devil has its own plans to destroy the night 
hags and obtain all the captured souls for itself. On rare 
occasions, it “borrows” a soul from the Cauldron of Souls 
and exits the Blot to harass the summer elves, using the 
borrowed soul as a means of re-entry. The hags put on 
a show of reluctance to release a soul from their watch, 
but truthfully, they are happy when the devil is gone, 
knowing the loss of one soul is worth the potentiality of 
the devil’s destruction by the elves.
AREA 5: CAULDRON OF SOULS
One of the Weft of Shadows’s negotiations involved 
obtaining the services of a coven of three night hags. 
The Weft needed their assistance to operate and protect 
a soul-harvesting device known as the Cauldron of Souls. 
The cauldron is tied to the Blot, imposing its terrible cost 
of entry and fueling the Blot’s expansion. The Weft’s 
appeals for the night hags, as former fey beings, to join 
it in getting revenge against fey who bask in the light 
failed to sway the hags. The Weft then discovered that 
the souls the cauldron collected were valueless to the 
Weft beyond fueling the expansion of its lair. Upon this 
realization, the Weft changed tactics and offered the hags 
their choice of souls with the stipulation they could take 
only one per week. Confident that the Blot’s expansion 
will soon become self-sustaining and no longer require 
the cauldron’s magic, he magnanimously offered the 
remainder of the souls to the hags once the cauldron was 
no longer needed. The night hags readily agreed.
The night hags created a magical sensor in the hallway 
between Area 4 and Area 5 to monitor the hallway for 
intruders and to spy on the lunar devil. A hag can use 
an action to see or hear through the sensor as if using 
the clairvoyance spell. A successful DC 20 Wisdom 
(Perception) check notices the sensor as a tiny, slit 
pupil in the shadowstuff on the wall. A successful DC

--- PAGE 160 ---
158
2
3
4
6
7
1
5
9
10
11
12
8
13
14
The Blot
1sq. = 10 feet
15 Intelligence (Arcana) check disperses the magic used 
to create the sensor, destroying it. If the check fails by 
5 or more, the hags are immediately alerted to the PCs’ 
presence. If the PCs don’t locate and disable the sensor 
within 2 rounds of entering the hallway, the hags use 
their Change Shape actions to appear as mortal elves 
searching the cauldron for their stolen souls. They 
attempt to convince the PCs to destroy the lunar devil, or 
they use their guises to catch the PCs by surprise.
Development. A successful DC 20 Intelligence 
(Arcana) check discovers the following information 
about the Cauldron of Souls: destroying the cauldron 
outside of the Blot will release the souls trapped within, 
returning them to their bodies, while destroying the 
cauldron inside of the Blot will destroy the souls trapped 
within it. The cauldron weighs 100 pounds and can be 
removed from its shallow pit with a successful DC 15 
Strength (Athletics) check. If the souls are freed, the 
planar elves, who were seemingly disintegrated when 
they attempted to enter the Blot, return to life with no 
memories of the intervening time. 
AREA 6: MAKESHIFT MORGUE
Obsidian slabs covered in corpses fill this room, leaving 
little space to maneuver. The victims are the remains 
of other groups summoned by Daesanderena to 
investigate the Blot. The fear smith in Area 7 has picked 
up the rudiments of surgical procedures to enhance its 
fear‑inducing capabilities. It dissected the bodies and 
arrayed them in disturbing positions to unsettle visitors 
and trespassers alike. If the fear smith is aware of the 
PCs’ presence and is able to read their minds with detect 
thoughts, it hastily reconfigures one of the corpses into 
a person at least one of the PCs knows. A creature that 
recognizes the corpse must succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom 
saving throw or become frightened for 1 minute. If the 
fear smith appears while a PC is frightened, it becomes 
the source of the PC’s fear. 
Secret Door. The room’s disturbing scene helps 
conceal the secret door hidden in the southeast corner. 
A successful DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check notices 
a cool spot on the wall where the secret door is hidden 
while a successful DC 15 Intelligence (Investigation) 
check discovers the door’s nearly imperceptible seams 
in the wall. The door is easily visible from the hallway on 
the other side.
AREA 7: WALLS OF TERROR
The fear smith (see Tome of Beasts) in this chamber uses 
a warped version of a relic meant to mollify fears. The 
Mask of Unmitigated Terror helps carve out new territory 
for the Blot and fills the indistinct terrain it creates with 
horrified screams that echo back on each other.

--- PAGE 161 ---
159
Mask of Unmitigated Terror. The fear smith carries 
a shadow version of an artifact known as the Mask of 
Unmitigated Terror. If the fear smith dies, the mask 
dissipates in a puff of black smoke. While the fear smith 
carries this item, they can use an action once each day 
to create a pulse of darkness that extends outward from 
them to all creatures within 20 feet. Each creature in that 
area must succeed on a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw or 
have disadvantage on its first attack roll each turn when 
in dim light or darkness for the next 24 hours as it fears 
the unknown things that might lurk unseen nearby. A 
remove curse spell cures the creature of its fear. 
Treasure. A successful DC 18 Intelligence 
(Investigation) check finds a helm of brilliance (with one 
diamond, three rubies, four fire opals, and six opals) 
hidden in the nearby shadowstuff. This helm was gifted to 
one of the slain adventurers by Daesanderena.
AREA 8: TWISTED SHADOW FOREST
This formless area is filled with shadowy imitations of 
trees and brush. While nearly insubstantial, the shadows 
still grasp at the PCs’ feet, filling the chamber with difficult 
terrain. This does not affect the forest’s denizens: a shadow 
beast (see Tome of Beasts) and a deathwisp (see Tome of 
Beasts) who lurk among the trees. The deathwisp benefits 
from the Blot’s inherent shadowy environment and can 
use its Shadow Jump action anywhere within the Blot.
Bramble Crown. The shadow beast wears a shadow 
version of an artifact known as the Bramble Crown. If the 
shadow beast dies, the crown dissipates in a puff of black 
smoke. While the shadow beast wears this item, it can use 
an action once each day to create a wall of thorns, except 
the wall deals necrotic damage instead of piercing or 
slashing damage. 
AREA 9: SHADOW RIVER
This enormous chamber is the Blot’s core, and a writhing 
shadow river feeds into it. The river provides travel to the 
Shadow Realm and generates much of the energy fueling 
the complex’s expansion. It poses a threat to creatures not 
native to the Shadow Realm or granted protection by the 
Weft of Shadows.
	 Shadow Tendrils. A creature that touches the 
shadow river or ends its turn within 10 feet of it takes 
5 (2d4) necrotic damage and must succeed on a DC 15 
Constitution saving throw or have its Strength score 
reduced by 1d4. The creature dies if this reduces its 
Strength to 0. Otherwise, the reduction lasts until the 
creature finishes a short or long rest. A humanoid that dies 
from this damage or Strength reduction rises as a shadow 
under the shadow river lord’s control after 1 minute.
Creatures. Two explorers previously sent by 
Daesanderena died to the river’s shadow tendrils and rose 
as two shadow skeletons (see Creature Codex). These 
skeletons are under the control of the shadow river lord 
(see Creature Codex), who plies the river, and have been 
instructed to bring mortal intruders to the river to meet 
the same fate as the skeletons. The shadow river lord 
hides in the shadows of the river, only revealing itself if 
the shadow skeletons are destroyed. 
AREA 10: BLOT’S HEART
This peninsula in the shadow river holds a giant gray 
obelisk with an intense gray light that pierces the Blot’s 
ceiling. When a creature moves within 10 feet of the 
obelisk, the light leaves the object and coalesces into a 
monolith champion (see Tome of Beasts). The monolith 
champion’s Blatant Dismissal ability functions as if 
it were in a fey locale, and the illusory duplicate of 
the target remains for 1 minute or until the monolith 
champion is destroyed.
Treasure. The monolith champion’s eyes are lenses 
that operate as goggles of night.
AREA 11: A GLIMPSE INTO THE VOID
This chamber once held creatures the Weft of Shadows 
used to feed the elder shadow drake in Area 12. 
However, an unexpected visitor, a voidling (see Tome 
of Beasts), was drawn to the Blot’s darkness and ate the 
smaller creatures in this room. The voidling presents 
a problem and a potential opportunity for the Weft of 
Shadows. To keep the voidling contained, the Weft feeds 
it lesser creatures not necessary for the Weft’s schemes.
Locked Door. The door leading into this chamber is 
locked. A successful DC 15 Dexterity (thieves’ tools) 
check picks the lock.
AREA 12: BALCONY
This raised area looks down on Area 9. The Weft of 
Shadows spends the vast majority of its time near the 
shadow pool in Area 14. When it wishes to address allies 
gathered in Area 9, it moves here, where it can speak from 
on high. The room contains the Weft of Shadows’s sole 
personal touch: a centuries-old portrait of Qeldar, as a 
young elf, hangs on the northern wall. The portrait shows 
scoring and scratches all around the portrait’s subject, 
which is unmarred by the damage.
The Weft keeps an elder shadow drake (see Tome of 
Beasts) here as a sort of pet. Where every other creature 
serves to achieve the Weft’s goals, the shadow drake 
is left to roam the Blot as it pleases, though it usually 
remains here with its growing hoard.
Treasure. The portrait of Qeldar is worth 500 gp to 
a collector of esoteric objects. The Weft allowed the 
shadow drake to collect trinkets belonging to former 
explorers that perished in the Blot, which includes 120 
gp, a gold band set with diamonds worth 1,000 gp, and a 
pair of amethyst-inset earrings worth 750 gp.

--- PAGE 162 ---
160
AREA 13: SHADOW’S ADVISER
The voidling isn’t the only dark, uninvited guest to the 
Blot. A herald of darkness (see Tome of Beasts) heard 
rumors among the shadow fey about the Weft of Shadows 
and its plans in the Elflands. Intrigued by this and hoping 
to assist in the Elflands’ literal corruption by the spreading 
Blot, she insinuated herself as a consultant to the Weft 
of Shadows, convincing the Weft with a well-spun story 
about her status as a rogue agent of the Queen of Night 
and Magic. She stationed herself in this room, where she 
can counsel the Weft when it needs a sympathetic ear 
regarding the suitability of its plans and potential allies.
Enoki Scepter. The herald of darkness carries a shadow 
version of an artifact known as the Enoki Scepter. If the 
herald of darkness dies, the scepter dissipates in a puff of 
black smoke. In addition to using the scepter to push the 
Blot’s boundaries to the north, the herald of darkness can 
use an action once each day while holding the scepter to 
spray shadowy spores in a 30-foot cone. Each creature in 
that area must make a DC 18 Constitution saving throw. 
On a failure, a creature takes 21 (6d6) necrotic damage 
and becomes infected with the shadow mold disease. On 
a success, a creature takes half the damage and doesn’t 
become infected with the disease. A target infected 
with shadow mold sprouts gray fungal growths from its 
body. Until the disease is cured, the target can’t regain 
hit points except by magical means. At the end of each 
long rest, the infected target must succeed on a DC 18 
Constitution saving throw or have its hit point maximum 
reduced by 7 (2d6). The target dies if this effect reduces 
its hit point maximum to 0. When an infected creature 
dies, a gloomflower (see Creature Codex) sprouts from 
its corpse 24 hours later.
AREA 14: SHADOW POOL
The door to this chamber is seamless save for three 
indentations in the shape of a crown, scepter, and mask. 
The only resident of the Blot that can enter the Weft’s 
chamber without the Weft’s permission is the herald of 
darkness from Area 13. The Queen of Night and Magic 
and her immediate lieutenants are allowed entry if the 
Weft is aware of their presence in the Blot. To gain 
entry, the PCs must defeat the creatures that possess 
the corrupted versions of the Bramble Crown, the Enoki 
Scepter, and the Mask of Unmitigated Terror. A successful 
DC 15 Intelligence (Arcana) check is enough to realize 
these indentations are connected to powerful magical 
items. If a PC has seen one of the items or has defeated 
one of the creatures that holds one of the items, it has 
advantage on this check. When a creature that possesses 
one of these items is slain, the indentation on the door to 
Area 14 fills in. When all three creatures possessing the 
items have been defeated, a knob appears on the door, 
allowing any creature access to the Weft’s chamber. 
The Weft of Shadows (see Appendix) experiments 
with the pool of shadow in this chamber to increase 
its power and figure out a way to accelerate the Blot’s 
growth. While it resents any intrusion into its sanctum, 
it calmly asks the trespassers to leave. If the PCs decide to 
parlay with it and do not threaten it, it patiently answers 
questions for a minute before demanding they leave. If 
the PCs refuse to leave, it attacks to force them to leave. 
The Weft can’t afford to let the Blot fall and defends its 
home to the death.
Concluding the Adventure
If the PCs can’t defeat the Weft of Shadows, the Blot 
continues to grow until the Birch Queen and Oak and 
Holly Kings decide to take action, launching an assault 
on the Blot that results in the deaths of hundreds of 
planar elves and allies from outside the Elflands. Over 
the course of a century, the Blot slowly shrinks in size 
to the dimensions it has at the start of the adventure. 
The elves are eventually able to recover some of the lost 
artifacts and use those to break into the Blot and destroy 
the objects holding it together, removing the Blot from 
the Elflands forever.
If the PCs defeat the Weft of Shadows, the Blot stops 
growing without the Weft to guide it. The Cauldron 
of Souls and the shadow copies of the Bramble Crown, 
the Enoki Scepter, and the Mask of Unmitigated Terror 
must be destroyed to cause the Blot to fully collapse. The 
destruction of each device (or the device’s wielder in the 
case of the crown, scepter, and mask) reduces the Blot’s 
diameter by 20%. When all four items and the Weft of 
Shadows have been destroyed, the Blot implodes, and 
a bright radiance flashes for a moment immediately 
afterward. Each non-shadow creature in the Blot when 
it implodes is harmlessly ejected outside its entrance. 
Each shadow creature in the Blot when it implodes must 
succeed on a DC 18 Constitution saving throw or take 55 
(10d10) radiant damage.
If the PCs defeat the Weft of Shadows, they earn their 
choice of 5,000 gp, a ring of shooting stars, or a scimitar 
of speed from the elves. They receive one additional 
reward for restoring the elves taken by the Cauldron of 
Souls and another for collapsing the Blot. If they achieve 
all three goals, they become celebrated among the planar 
elves, who treat them nearly as equals. Daesanderena 
becomes an ally to the PCs and gives them a silver pin 
in the shape of a sunflower (worth 1,000 gp), which they 
can use as a bonus action once per day to ask for her aid. 
This aid comes in a form of your choosing, though it is 
usually in the form of advice on otherworldly topics or 
similar assistance that doesn’t require the planar elf to 
physically manifest on the Material Plane (a taxing and 
dangerous task).

--- PAGE 163 ---
161
APPENDIX
Any new game elements in these adventures are 
presented here.
Hazards
Do watch your step, adventurer. The road ahead is 
fraught with peril.
QUASH MOSS
This thick, deep-green moss grows quickly after a 
spawning storm, typically in shaded areas. 
A typical patch of quash moss covers a 10-foot square. 
It appears as completely normal moss until pressure is 
applied to its surface, as when a creature walks upon it, 
and it then curls up, wrapping around whatever is on it. 
A creature must succeed on a DC 13 Dexterity saving 
throw to jump clear; otherwise, the quash moss rolls up 
tightly around it. A captured creature is restrained and 
takes 5 (1d10) bludgeoning damage and 5 (1d10) acid 
damage each round on its turn. A captured creature may 
make a DC 13 Dexterity check each round, slipping free 
on a success. 
Quash moss cannot otherwise move. Any effect that 
causes fire damage or 48 hours of exposure to direct 
sunlight will destroy an average patch of quash moss.
Magic Items & Spells
This magic may prove useful to resourceful adventurers. 
Though it’s best to be wary.
AMULET OF MEMORY 
Wondrous item, rare (requires attunement)
Made of gold or silver, this spherical locket is engraved 
with two cresting waves, facing away from each other 
while bound in a twisted loop. It preserves a memory to 
be re‑experienced later. 
While wearing this amulet, you can use an action to 
speak the command word and open the locket. The open 
locket stores what you see and experience for up to 10 
minutes. You can shut the locket at any time (no action 
required), stopping the memory recording. Opening 
the locket with the command word again overwrites the 
contained memory. 
While a memory is stored, you or another creature 
can touch the locket to experience the memory from the 
beginning. Breaking contact ends the memory early. In 
addition, you have advantage on any skill check related 
to details or knowledge of the stored memory. 
If you die while wearing the amulet, it preserves you. 
Your body is affected by the gentle repose spell until the 
amulet is removed or until you are restored to life. In 
addition, at the moment of your death, you can store any 
memory into the amulet. A creature touching the amulet 
perceives the memory stored there even after your death.
Attuning to an amulet of memory removes any prior 
memories stored in it.
BAG OF BRAMBLE BEASTS
Wondrous item, uncommon
This ordinary green cloth bag appears empty. Reaching 
inside, however, reveals a small ball of brambles. The bag 
weighs 1/2 pound.
You can use an action to pull the ball of brambles from 
the bag and throw it up to 20 feet. When the ball lands, it 
transforms into a creature you determine by rolling a d8 
and consulting the table below. The creature is a bramble 
version (see bramble creature template in Monsters & 
NPCs below) of the beast listed. The creature vanishes at 
the next dawn or when it is reduced to 0 hit points. 
The creature is friendly to you and your companions, 
and it acts on your turn. You can use a bonus action to 
command how the creature moves and what action it 
takes on its next turn or give it general orders, such as to 
attack your enemies. In the absence of such orders, the 
creature acts in a fashion appropriate to its nature.
Once three balls of brambles have been pulled from 
the bag, the bag can’t be used again until the next dawn.
Alternatively, one willing animal companion or 
familiar can be placed in the bag for 1 week. A non-beast 
animal companion or familiar that is placed in the bag 
is treated as if it had been placed into a bag of holding 
and can be removed from the bag at any time. A beast 
animal companion or familiar disappears once placed in 
the bag, and the bag’s magic is dormant until the week 
is up. At the end of the week, the animal companion or 
familiar exits the bag as a bramble creature (see bramble 
creature template in Monsters & NPCs below) and can

--- PAGE 164 ---
be returned to its original form only with a wish spell. 
The creature retains its status as an animal companion or 
familiar after its transformation. Once the bag has been 
used to change an animal companion or familiar into a 
bramble creature, it becomes an ordinary bag.
1d8
Creature
1
Weasel
2
Giant rat
3
Badger
4
Boar
5
Panther
6
Giant badger
7
Dire wolf
8
Giant elk
BALEFUL EYE OF CHERNOBOG
Wondrous item, uncommon (requires attunement)
A ruby orb set into a golden circle, the pendant of this 
necklace somewhat resembles a malicious eye with the 
lids draped across the ruby. The baleful eye has five 
charges. Using an action, you may expend a charge to 
cause the eye to open. When this happens, all dwarves 
within 60 feet of the bearer must succeed on a DC 15 
Wisdom saving throw or behave as if under the effects 
of a fear spell. After all charges have been expended, the 
baleful eye loses its power and becomes an ordinary if 
ghastly necklace valued at 200 gp to the right collector. 
Call Shadow Mastiff 
3rd-level conjuration (shadow) 
Casting Time: 1 action 
Range: 60 feet 
Components: V, S, M (a dog’s tooth) 
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 
You conjure a shadow mastiff (see below) from 
the Shadow Realm. This creature obeys your verbal 
commands to aid you in battle or to seek out a specific 
creature. It has the body of a large dog with a smooth 
black coat, 2 feet high at the shoulder and weighing 
200 pounds.
The mastiff is friendly to you and your companions. 
Roll initiative for the mastiff; it acts on its own turn. 
It obeys simple verbal commands from you within its 
ability to act. Giving a command takes no action on 
your part. 
The mastiff disappears when it drops to 0 hit points 
or when the spell ends.
SHADOW MASTIFF
Medium monstrosity, neutral evil
Armor Class 14
Hit Points 30 (4d8 +12)
Speed 50 ft.
STR	
DEX 	
CON 	
INT 	
WIS 	
CHA
17 (+3) 	 13 (+1) 	
17 (+3) 	 4 (–3) 	
12 (+1) 	 13 (+1)
Skills Perception +6, Stealth +8, Survival +5
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 16
Languages understands Common but does not speak
Challenge: 2 (200 XP)
Bay. When a shadow mastiff howls, all creatures within 
a 300-foot radius who are not evil monstrosities must 
succeed on a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw or be 
panicked. On each of its turns, a panicked creature 
must take the Dash action and move away from the 
mastiff by the safest and shortest route, if such a route 
exists. If the target moves out of range of this ability, 
the effect ends.
Scent. Shadow mastiffs have advantage on all Wisdom 
checks that rely on their sense of smell.
Shadow Blend. Shadow mastiffs can hide in any 
condition of illumination other than bright light.
Trip. Whenever a shadow mastiff hits an opponent with a 
bite attack for the first time on a turn, the opponent falls 
prone unless it succeeds on a DC 15 Dexterity saving 
throw. On a failed save, the shadow mastiff makes an 
immediate second bite attack as a bonus action.
ACTIONS
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 7 (1d6+3) piercing damage.

--- PAGE 165 ---
CONSTANT DAGGER
Weapon (dagger), rare
You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage 
rolls made with this magic weapon.
When you roll a 20 on an attack roll 
made with this weapon, the target loses its 
resistance to bludgeoning, piercing, and 
slashing damage until the start of your next 
turn. If it has immunity to bludgeoning, 
piercing, and slashing damage, its 
immunity instead becomes resistance 
to such damage until the start of your 
next turn. If the creature doesn’t have 
resistance or immunity to such damage, 
you roll your damage dice three times, 
instead of twice.
GREEN MANTLE
Wondrous item, very rare 
(requires attunement)
This garment is made of living plants—
mosses, vines, and grasses—interwoven 
into a light, comfortable piece of 
clothing. When you attune to the green 
mantle, it forms a symbiotic relationship 
with you, sinking roots beneath your 
skin. While wearing it, your hit point 
maximum is reduced by 5, and you gain 
the following benefits:
•	 If you aren’t wearing armor, your base AC is 13 + 
your Dexterity modifier.
•	 You have resistance to radiant damage.
•	 You have immunity to the poisoned condition and 
poison damage that originates from a plant, moss, 
fungus, or plant creature.
•	 As an action, you cause the mantle to produce six 
berries. It can have no more than twelve berries on it 
at one time. The berries have the same effect as berries 
produced by the goodberry spell. Unlike the goodberry 
spell, the berries retain their potency as long as they 
are not picked from the mantle. Once used, this 
property can’t be used again until the next dawn.
Curse. Once you don and attune to this mantle, you 
are cursed and can’t remove it unless you are targeted 
by the remove curse spell or similar magic. The green 
mantle requires at least 1 pint of water each day. If 
you fail to provide water to it, it draws the moisture 
it needs from your body, dealing 10 (3d6) necrotic 
damage to you. 
If it is unable to gain moisture, whether due to its 
host’s immunities or magical protections or to being 
in a dry environment on a dead host, the green mantle 
begins to wither. After the first 24 hours, it is unable to 
gain moisture, the AC it provides is reduced by 1, and 
you lose resistance to radiant damage. After 48 hours 
without moisture, it no longer provides any benefits to 
AC, and you lose immunity to the poisoned condition 
and plant-based poison damage. After 72 hours without 
moisture, it dies, becoming nonmagical, and you are able 
to remove it.
PHASE MIRROR
Wondrous item, rarity varies (requires attunement)
Unlike other magic items, multiple creatures can attune 
to the phase mirror by touching it as part of the same 
short rest. A creature remains attuned to the mirror as 
long as it is on the same plane of existence as the mirror 
or until it chooses to end its attunement to the mirror, 
during a short rest. Phase mirrors look almost identical 
to standard mirrors, but their surfaces are slightly 
clouded. These mirrors are found in a variety of sizes, 
from handheld to massive disks. The larger the mirror, 
the more power it can take in, and consequently, the 
more creatures it can affect.
When it is created, a phase mirror is connected to a 
specific plane. The mirror draws in starlight and uses 
that energy to move between its current plane and its 
connected plane. 
While holding or touching a fully charged mirror, an 
attuned creature can use an action to speak the command 
word to activate the mirror. When activated, the mirror 
transports all creatures attuned to it to the mirror’s 
connected plane or back to the Material Plane at a 
destination of the activating creature’s choice. This effect 
works like the plane shift spell, except it transports only 
attuned creatures, regardless of their distance from each 
other, and the destination must be on the Material Plane 
or the mirror’s connected plane. If the mirror is broken, 
its magic ends, and each attuned creature is trapped in 
whatever plane it occupies when the mirror breaks. 
Once activated, the mirror stays active for 24 hours, 
and any attuned creature can use an action to transport 
all attuned creatures back and forth between the two 
planes. After these 24 hours have passed, the power 
drains from the mirror, and it can’t be activated again 
until it is recharged. Each phase mirror has a different 
recharge time and limit to the number of creatures that 
can be attuned to it, depending on the mirror’s size. 
Handheld (Rare). This mirror fits easily in one hand. 
Only one creature can attune to it, and the mirror 
must spend at least 24 total hours (approximately 3 
days) exposed to moonlight or starlight before it can be 
activated.
Vanity (Very Rare). This mirror is about 2 feet wide. 
Up to four creatures can attune to it, and the mirror 
must spend at least 40 total hours (approximately 5 
days) exposed to moonlight or starlight before it can be 
activated.

--- PAGE 166 ---
164
Floor (Legendary). This mirror is about 5 feet wide. 
Up to seven creatures can attune to it, and the mirror 
must spend at least 56 total hours (approximately 7 
days) exposed to moonlight or starlight before it can be 
activated. 
Phase mirrors connected to planes without moonlight 
or starlight can be recharged in whatever light is native 
to its connected plane, but it must still be recharged by 
moonlight or starlight while on the Material Plane.
Putrescent Faerie Circle
5th-level conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a piece of poisonous fungus)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You create a 20-foot-diameter circle of loosely packed 
toadstools that spew sickly white spores and secrete a 
tarry substance. At the start of each of your turns, each 
creature within the circle must make a Constitution 
saving throw. A creature takes 4d8 necrotic damage on a 
failed save or half as much damage on a successful one.
If a creature attempts to pass through the ring of 
toadstools, the toadstools release a cloud of spores, 
and the creature must make a Constitution saving 
throw. On a failure, the creature takes 8d8 poison 
damage and is poisoned for 1 minute. On a success, 
the creature takes half as much damage and isn’t 
poisoned. While a creature is poisoned, it is 
paralyzed. It can attempt a new Constitution 
saving throw at the end of each of its turns to 
remove the paralyzed condition (but not the 
poisoned condition).
PYROCLASTIC BURST
4th-level evocation (sorcerer, wizard)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components: V, S, M (residue from a magmin)
Duration: Instantaneous
When you cast this spell, a ball of magma shoots from 
your hand and messily explodes at a point where you 
indicate. Each creature in a 30-foot-radius sphere 
centered on the point must make a Dexterity saving 
throw, taking 6d8 fire damage and catching on fire 
on a failed save or half as much damage and suffers 
no additional effect on a successful save. An ignited 
creature takes 1d8 fire damage at the beginning of each 
of its turns. Any adjacent creature can take an action to 
douse the fire.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell 
slot of 5th level or higher, the damage increases by 1d8 
for each slot level above 4th. The extra damage dealt to 
an ignited creature increases by 1d8 for every two slot 
levels above 4th.
ROD OF RAMPANCY
Rod, very rare (requires attunement)
This rod of polished, silvery metal resembles a scepter. 
It has an eye fashioned at the top of it, flanked by a pair 
of wings. The octagonal rod narrows into a sharp point 
at the other end. You can wield the rod as a javelin, and 
it counts as a magic weapon. When you are attuned to 
the rod, you are unaffected by spells and other magical 
effects that would reduce your speed or cause you to 
become paralyzed or restrained (including the temporal 
effects described in this adventure). The rod has 3 
charges. You can expend a charge from the rod to cast 
freedom of movement on a target as an action by touching 
a creature with the rod or to cast knock by touching an 
object. The rod regains all expended charges at dawn.

--- PAGE 167 ---
165
SLEEPING SAND 
Wondrous item, uncommon
Found in a small packet, this powder resembles soft 
white sand. There is enough of it for one use. When you 
use an action to throw the dust into the air, you and each 
creature within 30 feet of you that requires sleep must 
succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or fall 
unconscious until the sleeper takes damage, someone 
uses an action to shake or slap the sleeper awake, or 1 
minute has passed.
SUMMON ANCESTOR
5th-level necromancy
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 10 feet
Components: V, S, M (natural stone; optionally, an 
object connected to target’s memories for binding, 
see text)
Duration: 10 minutes or 1 hour if bound
You speak the name of one of your ancestors (you need 
not be blood-related, but you must be considered part 
of their family line) while touching a stone as a focus for 
the spell. If you wish to bind the spirit (see below), you 
must also hold a personal object of theirs or something 
infused with their memories, like a journal, which is 
consumed at the end of the duration. The ancestor 
is summoned as a ghost with their memories and 
personality, except for memories of their death and the 
afterlife, which are suppressed. 
You can attempt to summon an unknown ancestor, 
but the spell has a 30% chance of failure.
The ancestor will perform one of the following tasks 
for you when summoned:
•	 Answer Five Questions. This functions as speak with 
dead, but as you are speaking to an intact soul, it can 
give more complete answers and can speculate if 
needed.
•	 Provide Advice. Your ancestor gives you information 
or guidance based on their skills and specialties in life. 
You gain advantage on all skill check rolls of a relevant 
skill until the next dawn.
Binding an ancestor ties them to the stone used as a 
focus for the spell, unable to move more than 120 feet 
away from it. You may choose to have your ancestor 
watch or guard the area.
If watching, the spirit hides in the Ethereal Plane and 
observes, appearing to you at the end of the duration to 
tell you what it saw.
If guarding, it attempts to scare off any creatures 
entering the area (or specific creatures you describe after 
casting the spell) but will only attack to defend itself. 
You cannot summon the same ancestor more often 
than once in 10 days.
THIRSTING SCALPEL
Weapon (dagger), uncommon 
(requires attunement)
You gain a +1 bonus to attack and 
damage rolls with this magic weapon, 
which deals slashing damage instead of 
piercing damage.
When you attack a creature with this 
weapon and roll a 20 on the attack roll, 
that target takes an extra 2d6 slashing 
damage. If the target is a creature other 
than an undead or construct, it must 
succeed on a DC 12 Constitution saving 
throw or lose 2d6 hit points at the start of 
each of its turns from a bleeding wound. 
Any creature can take an action to 
stanch the wound with a successful 
DC 12 Wisdom (Medicine) check. 
The wound also closes if the target 
receives magical healing.
Curse. This scalpel is cursed and 
contains a bearded devil’s essence. 
Becoming attuned to it extends the curse 
to you. As long as you remain cursed, 
you are unwilling to part with the scalpel, 
keeping it on your person at all times. 
While attuned to this weapon, you have 
disadvantage on attack rolls made with weapons other 
than this one.
In addition, once per week while the scalpel is on your 
person, you must succeed on a DC 15 Charisma saving 
throw or become driven to feed blood to the scalpel. 
You have advantage on attack rolls with the scalpel until 
it is sated. The dagger is sated when you roll a 20 on an 
attack roll with it or deal 14 slashing damage with it. If 
1 hour elapses and you haven’t sated its thirst for blood, 
the dagger deals 14 slashing damage to you. If the dagger 
deals damage to you as a result of the curse, you can’t 
heal the damage for 24 hours.
You can break the curse in the usual ways. 
Alternatively, casting banishment on the dagger forces 
the devil to leave it. The scalpel then becomes a +1 
weapon with no other properties.

--- PAGE 168 ---
166
VRIL FORCE GLOVE
This bulky gauntlet is crafted of thick 
leather covered in plates of a strange 
blue-green metal. Orichalcum 
studs and wires bedeck the 
gauntlet with the wires leading to a 
metal cylinder attached to a leather 
harness that fits to the wearer’s back/
shoulder. The metal cylinder is made 
to hold a vril battery (see Midgard 
Worldbook), which must be inserted 
for the force glove to function.
You use an action to discharge 
a bolt of force as a ranged 
weapon attack against a target 
within 60 feet, dealing 3 (1d6) 
points of force damage on a hit 
and knocking the target prone 
if it fails a DC 10 Strength 
saving throw, expending 1 
charge from the vril battery 
to do so. You can delay 
discharging the glove for 
up to 3 rounds, using your 
action to build up a more 
powerful bolt. Each round 
you spend building up power 
affects the force bolt as follows: 
•	 1 Round. 7 (2d6) force damage, DC 12 Strength saving 
throw, costs 2 charges.
•	 2 Rounds. 14 (4d6) force damage, DC 14 Strength 
saving throw, costs 3 charges.
•	 3 Rounds. 28 (8d6) force damage; DC 16 Strength 
saving throw, costs 4 charges.
Holding a charge requires concentration. If your 
concentration is broken while delaying the discharge, 
all spent charges are lost, and the resulting bolt deals 
only 1d6 + 1 per round of delay. Attempts to charge 
the device for more than 3 rounds cause it to overload, 
dealing 35 (10d6) force damage to everything in a 
10‑foot burst. A successful DC 15 Dexterity saving throw 
reduces this damage by half. There is a 50% chance the 
force glove is destroyed by the overload. Otherwise, the 
vril battery that powers it is simply drained of all charges.
WARRIOR’S EYE HELM
Wonderous item, very rare (requires attunement)
This finely crafted silver and bronze helm is etched on 
each side with a stylized eye surrounded by ivy.  
When wearing it, you are better able to anticipate your 
opponent’s movements during battle. You gain either a +2 
on your attack roll or a +2 to your AC during each round 
of combat. You can change how you use this bonus with a 
bonus action. In addition, you can use an action to cast the 
invisibility spell. Once used, the invisibility effect can’t be 
used again until the next dawn.

--- PAGE 169 ---
167
Monsters & NPCs
There are many foes that seek to block your progress. 
You’ll live longer if you’re prepared for anything.
ANIMATED BOOK
Small construct, unaligned
Armor Class 17 (natural armor)
Hit Points 12 (5d4)
Speed 0 ft., fly 50 ft. (hover)
STR 	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
12 (+1)	 16 (+3)	
11 (+0)	
1 (−5)	
5 (−3)	
1 (−5)
Saving Throws Dex +3
Damage Immunities poison, psychic
Condition Immunities blinded, charmed, deafened, 
frightened, paralyzed, petrified, poisoned
Senses blindsight 60 ft. (blind beyond this radius), 
passive Perception 7
Languages —
Challenge 1/2 (100 XP) 
Antimagic Susceptibility. The book is incapacitated 
while in the area of an antimagic field. If targeted by 
dispel magic, the book must succeed on a Constitution 
saving throw against the caster’s spell save DC or fall 
unconscious for 1 minute.
False Appearance. While the book remains motionless 
and isn’t flying, it is indistinguishable from a normal 
book.
ACTIONS
Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 6 (2d4 + 1) bludgeoning damage.
ASH TROLL
Large giant, chaotic evil
Armor Class 14 (natural armor)
Hit Points 126 (12d10 + 60)
Speed 30 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
19 (+4)	 10 (+0)	
21 (+5)	
8 (−1)	
11 (+0)	
7 (−2)
Skills Intimidation +1, Survival +3
Damage Vulnerabilities thunder
Damage Resistances fire
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 10
Languages Abyssal, Giant
Challenge 7 (2,900 XP)
Keen Senses. The creature has advantage on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks that rely on certain senses.
Regeneration. The ash troll regains 10 hp at the start 
of its turn. If the troll takes acid or thunder damage, 
this trait doesn’t function at the start of the creature ’s 
next turn. The ash troll dies only if it starts its turn with 
0 hit points and doesn’t regenerate. If the troll uses its 
Exhale Ash action, this trait doesn’t function at the start 
of its next turn.
ACTIONS
Multiattack. The ash troll makes three attacks: one with 
its bite and two with its claws.
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
creature. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) piercing damage plus 2 
(1d4) fire damage.
Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
creature. Hit: 14 (3d6 + 4) slashing damage.
Exhale Ash (Recharge 4–6). The ash troll breathes 
fiery ash in a 15-foot cone. A creature in the area must 
make a DC 16 Constitution saving throw. On a failed 
save, it takes 14 (4d6) fire damage and is poisoned 
for 1 minute. On a successful save, it takes half the 
damage and suffers no additional effect. A creature 
poisoned by the ash troll can repeat the saving throw 
at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on 
itself on a success.s
ASP VINE
Medium plant, unaligned
Armor Class 13 (natural armor)
Hit Points 55 (10d8 + 10)
Speed 10 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
14 (+2)	 12 (+1)	
12 (+1)	
1 (−5)	
3 (−4)	
1 (−5)
Damage Resistances bludgeoning, piercing 
Condition Immunities blinded, deafened, frightened
Senses blindsight 30 ft. (blind beyond this radius), 
passive Perception 6
Languages —
Challenge 4 (1,100 XP)
False Appearance. While the asp vine remains 
motionless, it is indistinguishable from a normal cluster 
of vines.

--- PAGE 170 ---
168
ACTIONS
Multiattack. The asp vine makes four vine attacks.
Vine. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., 
one target. Hit: 4 (1d4 + 2) piercing damage and 5 
(2d4) poison damage, and the target must succeed 
on a DC 14 Constitution saving throw or be poisoned 
for 1 minute. If the target is a creature, it is grappled 
(escape DC 14). Until this grapple ends, the target is 
restrained and must succeed on a new saving throw 
each round it remains grappled or take another 
5 (2d4) poison damage. The asp vine can 
grapple up to four targets at a time, though 
it can still make vine attacks against other 
targets even if it has four grappled opponents. 
BRAMBLE CREATURE TEMPLATE
Only a beast can become a bramble creature. It 
retains all its statistics except as noted below:
Type. The creature’s type changes from beast 
to plant.
Vulnerabilities. The creature is vulnerable to 
fire damage. 
Resistances. The creature has resistance to 
piercing damage from nonmagical attacks.
Immunities. The creature has immunity to poison.
Condition Immunities. The creature can’t be 
poisoned.
Senses. The creature has tremorsense with a radius of 
10 feet.
New Trait: Thorn Body. A creature that touches the 
bramble creature or hits it with a melee attack while 
within 5 feet of it takes 4 (1d8) piercing damage.
CHESHIRIAN
Small fey, chaotic neutral
Armor Class 14
Hit Points 66 (12d6 + 24)
Speed 30 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
13 (+1)	 18 (+4)	
14 (+2)	
10 (+0)	 11 (+0)	
16 (+3)
Saving Throws Cha +5
Skills Deception +7, Stealth +6, Survival +2
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 10
Languages Common, Sylvan
Challenge 3 (700 XP)
Claim Territory (1/Day). The cheshirian spends 1 hour 
out of phase, attuning itself to a section of the Forlorn 
Roads up to 1 square mile in size. This section becomes 
its territory until it dies or it designates another area 
as its territory. It also attunes itself to a similarly sized 
swath of land on the Material Plane in the Northlands 
as part of this process. More than one cheshirian can 
claim the same territory, though this overlap often 
ends with one of the cheshirians slain by the other or 
moving on to a different area.
Out of Phase. As a bonus action, the cheshirian can 
magically exist on the Material Plane and the Forlorn 
Roads simultaneously. While it is out of phase in this 
way, it is invisible in both realms (though it can choose 
for its mouth and teeth to remain visible), and it has 
resistance to bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing 
damage from nonmagical attacks. A creature that the 
cheshirian hits with its claw attack while out of phase 
has resistance to the cheshirian’s claw damage. As a 
bonus action on a subsequent turn, the cheshirian can 
choose to fully manifest on the Material Plane or the 
Forlorn Roads.

--- PAGE 171 ---
169
Sound Mimicry. The cheshirian can mimic humanoid 
voices. A creature that hears the voices can tell 
they are imitations with a successful DC 15 Wisdom 
(Insight) check.
ACTIONS
Multiattack. The cheshirian makes two claw attacks.
Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) slashing damage. If the target 
is a Medium or smaller creature, it is grappled (escape 
DC 11). Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained, 
and the cheshirian can’t use its claw on another target.
Drag to the Forlorn Roads. The cheshirian teleports 
itself to its claimed territory in the Forlorn Roads, its 
claimed territory in the Northlands, or to an area of the 
Forlorn Roads with which it is familiar. If it is grappling 
a creature, the grappled creature must make a DC 
13 Wisdom saving throw (a creature can willingly fail 
this saving throw). On a failure, the grappled creature 
teleports with the cheshirian to the chosen location. A 
creature that is in the Forlorn Roads and not native to 
the Shadow Realm can attempt a new Wisdom saving 
throw at the end of each hour, reappearing in the 
space it left (or in the nearest unoccupied space if that 
space is occupied) on a success. A creature can choose 
to fail this saving throw. If a creature fails this saving 
throw each hour for 48 hours, it is permanently stuck in 
the Forlorn Roads and must find a different way out. A 
fey creature or a creature native to the Shadow Realm 
can choose to permanently remain in the Forlorn 
Roads or not at the end of the first hour.
DURGLEEL
Small humanoid (goblinoid), neutral evil
Armor Class 16 (studded leather)
Hit Points 44 (8d6 + 16)
Speed 30 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
8 (−1)	
18 (+4)	
15 (+2)	
14 (+2)	 13 (+1)	
14 (+2)
Saving Throws Dex +7, Int +5
Skills Intimidation +3, Stealth +8, Survival +3
Damage Resistances psychic
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 11
Languages Ankeshelian, Common, Goblin
Challenge 3 (700 XP)
Alien Mind. Durgleel has advantage on saving throws 
against being charmed or frightened. In addition, she 
can use a bonus action to read the surface thoughts of 
one creature within 30 feet. This works like the detect 
thoughts spell, except it can only read surface thoughts 
and there is no limit to the duration. Durgleel can end 
this effect as a bonus action or by using a bonus action 
to change the target.
Cunning Action. On each of her turns, Durgleel can 
use a bonus action to take the Dash, Disengage, or 
Hide action.
Sneak Attack (1/Turn). Durgleel deals an extra 10 
(3d6) damage when she hits a target with a weapon 
attack and has advantage on the attack roll or when 
the target is within 5 feet of an ally of hers that isn’t 
incapacitated and she doesn’t have disadvantage on 
the attack roll.
Twisted. When Durgleel attacks a creature from hiding, 
the target must succeed on a DC 13 Wisdom saving 
throw or be frightened until the end of its next turn.
ACTIONS
Shortsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 
ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) piercing damage plus 
4 (1d8) poison damage. The target must succeed on a 
DC 13 Constitution saving throw or be poisoned for 1 
minute. The target can repeat the saving throw at the 
end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on 
a success.
Light Crossbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, 
range 80/320 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) piercing 
damage plus 4 (1d8) poison damage. The target must 
succeed on a DC 13 Constitution saving throw or 
be poisoned for 1 minute. The target can repeat the 
saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the 
effect on itself on a success.
Force Glove. Ranged Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, range 
60 ft., one target. Hit: 3 (1d6) force damage, and the 
target must succeed at a DC 10 Constitution saving 
throw or be knocked prone. The force glove is powered 
by a fully charged vril battery, giving her a maximum of 
50 shots with this attack, less if she delays powering it 
up. (See vril force glove for full effects and abilities.)
Psychic Blast (Recharge 5–6). Durgleel lashes out 
with the power of her vril artifact, projecting a wave of 
psychic energy in a 15-foot cone. Creatures in the area 
of effect must make a DC 12 Charisma saving throw. 
On a failed save, a creature takes 10 (4d4) psychic 
damage and suffers disadvantage on its next attack, 
saving throw, or skill check after taking the damage. 
On a successful save, the creature takes half damage 
and does not have disadvantage on its next roll.

--- PAGE 172 ---
170
REACTIONS
Parry. Durgleel adds 2 to her AC against one melee 
attack that would hit her. To do so, she must be able to 
see the attacker and be wielding a melee weapon.
HAMMER HOLLY
Huge plant, unaligned
Armor Class 14 (natural armor)
Hit Points 60 (8d12 + 8)
Speed 0 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
18 (+4)	 10 (+0)	
12 (+1)	
1 (−5)	
10 (+0)	
1 (−5)
Damage Vulnerabilities fire
Damage Resistances bludgeoning, piercing
Condition Immunities blinded, deafened, frightened
Senses blindsight 60 ft. (blind beyond this radius), 
passive Perception 10
Languages —
Challenge 4 (1,100 XP)
False Appearance. While the hammer holly 
remains motionless, it is indistinguishable from 
a normal holly tree.
ACTIONS
Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 
5 ft., one target. Hit: 21 (5d6 + 4) bludgeoning 
damage and target is stunned for 1 round. If 
the target succeeds on DC 12 Constitution 
saving throw, it is not stunned. 
INFERNAL CENTAUR
Medium fiend, lawful evil
Armor Class 15 (natural armor)
Hit Points 60 (8d8 + 24)
Speed 40 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
17 (+3)	 12 (+1)	 16 (+3)	 11 (+0)	 14 (+2)	 13 (+1)
Skills Intimidation +3, Perception +4
Damage Immunities fire
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 14
Languages Common, Gnomish, Infernal
Challenge 4 (1,100 XP)
Cruelty. If the infernal centaur scores a critical hit with a 
melee attack, it can make a second attack against the 
same target as a bonus action. It has advantage on this 
attack roll.
Hell Hound Affinity. Hell hounds view infernal 
centaurs as leaders of their packs. A hell hound 
refuses to attack an infernal centaur unless the centaur 
attacks it first. If magically coerced, the hell hound 
has disadvantage on attack rolls against the centaur. 
The centaur has advantage on Charisma (Persuasion) 
checks against hell hounds.
Pack Tactics. The centaur has advantage on attack 
rolls against a creature if at least one of the centaur’s 
allies is within 5 feet of the creature and the ally isn’t 
incapacitated.
ACTIONS
Multiattack. The infernal centaur makes two dagger 
attacks.

--- PAGE 173 ---
171
Dagger. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, 
reach 5 ft. or range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 5 (1d4 + 
3) piercing damage.
Fiery Breath (Recharge 5–6). The infernal centaur 
exhales fire in a 15-foot cone. Each creature in that 
area must make a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw, taking 
28 (8d6) fire damage on a failed save or half as much 
damage on a successful one.
LADY MADAERA D’FAUCON, THE CHIMERIC MAGE
Medium humanoid (shadow fey)
Armor Class 12 (15 with mage armor)
Hit Points 55 (10d8 +10)
Speed 30 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
9 (−1) 	 14 (+2) 	 13 (+1) 	 17 (+3) 	 12 (+1) 	 11 (+0)
Saving Throws Int +7, Wis +5
Skills Arcana +7, History +7
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 11
Languages Common, Elvish, Infernal, Umbral
Challenge 6 (2,300 XP)
Chimeric Magic. Madaera can grant another creature 
within 30 feet one of the following benefits when she 
casts a transmutation spell: 
•	 The creature’s arms elongate for their next attack, 
granting them an additional 5 ft. reach. 
•	 The creature’s legs strengthen, granting them an 
additional 10 ft. of movement for 1 round. 
Fey Ancestry. Madaera has advantage on saving 
throws against being charmed, and magic can’t put 
her to sleep. 
Innate Spellcasting. Madaera’s innate spellcasting 
ability is Charisma. She can cast the following spells 
innately, requiring no material components.
3/day: misty step (when in shadows, dim light, or 
darkness only)
Spellcasting. Madaera is a 10th-level spellcaster. Her 
spellcasting ability is Intelligence (spell save DC 14, +7 
to hit with spell attacks). Madaera has the following 
wizard spells prepared:
Cantrips (at will): light, mending, prestidigitation, ray 
of frost
1st level (4 slots): false life*, mage armor, magic 
missile
2nd level (3 slots): arcane lock, enhance 
ability*, hold person
3rd level (3 slots): blink*, fireball, slow*
4th level (3 slots): polymorph*, stoneskin
5th level (2 slots): modify memory, telekinesis*
	     *Transmutation spell of 1st level or higher
Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, Madaera 
has disadvantage on attack rolls and on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks that rely on sight.
Traveler in Darkness. Madaera has advantage on 
Intelligence (Arcana) checks made to know about 
shadow roads and shadow magic spells or items.
ACTIONS
Dagger. Melee Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 5 ft., 
one target. Hit: 1 (1d4 – 1) piercing damage
LYRA IRONHIDE
Medium humanoid (bearfolk), neutral
Armor Class 13 (natural armor) (16 with barkskin)
Hit Points 136 (21d8 + 42)
Speed 30 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
19 (+4)	 10 (+0)	
15 (+2)	
11 (+0)	 18 (+4)	
14 (+2)
Saving Throws Con +5
Skills Animal Handling +7, Perception +7, Persuasion 
+5, Religion +3
Senses passive Perception 17
Languages Common, Druidic, Sylvan 
Challenge 6 (2,300 XP)
Frenzy (1/Rest). As a bonus action, Lyra can trigger a 
berserk frenzy that lasts 1 minute. While in a frenzy, 
she gains resistance to bludgeoning, piercing, and 
slashing damage from nonmagical attacks and has 
advantage on attack rolls. Attack rolls made against 
Lyra while she is frenzied have advantage.
Keen Smell. Lyra has advantage on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks that rely on smell.
Moon Touched. While she or her target is in 
moonlight, Lyra’s weapon attacks are magical, and 
when she hits with any weapon, the weapon deals an 
extra 2d8 radiant damage. 
Spellcasting. Lyra is an 8th-level spellcaster. Her 
spellcasting ability is Wisdom (spell save DC 15, +7 
to hit with spell attacks). Lyra has the following druid 
spells prepared:
Cantrips (at will): druidcraft, mending, produce flame
1st level (4 slots): cure wounds, entangle, faerie fire, 
speak with animals
2nd level (3 slots): barkskin, hold person, moonbeam

--- PAGE 174 ---
172
3rd level (3 slots): conjure animals, 
dispel magic, meld into stone
4th level (2 slots): blight, stone shape
ACTIONS
Multiattack. Lyra makes two attacks: one with 
her bite and one with her quarterstaff.
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 
5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) piercing 
damage. 
Quarterstaff. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 
to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d6 
+ 4) bludgeoning damage or 8 (1d8 + 4) 
bludgeoning damage if used with two hands.
Change Shape (2/Day). Lyra magically 
polymorphs into a beast with a challenge 
rating of 2 or less and can remain in this form 
for up to 4 hours. Lyra reverts to her true form 
if she dies. Any equipment she is wearing or 
carrying is absorbed or borne by the new 
form or falls to the ground (her choice). 
She can revert to her true form as a bonus 
action on her turn.
    In a new form, Lyra retains her game 
statistics and ability to speak, but her AC, 
movement modes, Strength, and Dexterity are 
replaced by those of the new form, and she 
gains any special senses, proficiencies, traits, 
actions, and reactions (except class features, 
legendary actions, and lair actions) that the 
new form has but that she lacks.
    Her new form’s attacks count as magical 
for the purpose of overcoming resistances 
and immunity to nonmagical attacks.
MIRROR IMAGE
Medium monstrosity, lawful evil
Armor Class 17 (natural armor)
Hit Points 170 (20d8 + 80)
Speed 30 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
13 (+1)	 20 (+5)	
19 (+4)	
14 (+2)	 12 (+2)	
16 (+3)
Damage Immunities radiant
Condition Immunities blinded
Senses darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 12
Languages understands the language of its creator but 
can’t speak
Challenge 8 (3,900 XP)
Refract. If the mirror image is hit with radiant damage, 
every creature who can see it must succeed on a DC 15 
Constitution saving throw or be blinded.
ACTIONS
Multiattack. The mirror image makes three slash 
attacks. One of these attacks can be replaced with its 
Multiplicity action.
Slash. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 15 (3d6 + 5) slashing damage.
Multiplicity (Recharge 5–6). The mirror image 
conjures three illusory duplicates of itself that appear 
in its space. The duplicates move with the mirror

--- PAGE 175 ---
173
image and mimic its actions, shifting positions, so it’s 
impossible to track which image is real.
    Each time a creature targets the mirror image with 
an attack, roll a d20 to determine whether the attack 
targets one of the duplicates. On a roll of 10 or higher, 
the attack targets a duplicate, which is immediately 
destroyed. 
    A creature is unaffected by this ability if it can’t 
see, if it relies on senses other than sight, such as 
blindsight, or if it can perceive illusions as false, as with 
truesight.
REACTIONS
Copy. When the mirror image takes damage from a 
creature within melee range, it can use a reaction to 
assume the form of its attacker for the remainder of 
its turn.
While a creature is copied, all damage dealt to the 
mirror image is also dealt to it.
NAZAIRE THE CORRUPTED
Medium humanoid (human), lawful evil
Armor Class 15 (natural armor)
Hit Points 97 (15d8 + 30)
Speed 30 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
17 (+3)	 14 (+2)	
15 (+2)	
14 (+2)	 12 (+1)	
17 (+3)
Skills Arcana +5, Investigation +5
Damage Resistances bludgeoning
Senses passive Perception 11
Languages Common, Goblin, Void Speech
Challenge 6 (2,300 XP)
Innate Spellcasting. Nazaire’s innate spellcasting 
ability is Charisma (spell save DC 14, +6 to hit with 
spell attacks). He can innately cast the following spells, 
requiring no material components:
At will: eldritch blast, minor illusion
3/day each: charm person, vampiric touch
1/day: black tentacles
Virulent Pustules. When Nazaire takes piercing or 
slashing damage, the pustules on his hide erupt in a 
noxious spray. Each creature within 5 feet of Nazaire 
must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw. On a 
failure, a creature takes 7 (2d6) poison damage and 
is poisoned for 1 minute. On a success, a creature 
takes half the damage and isn’t poisoned. A poisoned 
creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each 
of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success.
Void-Touched Weapons. Nazaire’s weapon attacks are 
magical. When he hits with any weapon, the weapon 
deals an extra 2d8 psychic damage (included in 
the attack). 
ACTIONS
Multiattack. Nazaire makes two melee attacks.
Spear. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, 
reach 5 ft. or range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d6 + 
3) piercing damage or 7 (1d8 + 3) piercing damage if 
used with two hands to make a melee attack, plus 9 
(2d8) psychic damage.
SPECTRAL MEMORY
Medium undead, neutral
Armor Class 12
Hit Points 22 (5d8)
Speed 0 ft., fly 50 ft. (hover)
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
1 (–5)	
14 (+2)	
11 (+0)	
15 (+2)	
12 (+1)	 10 (+0)
Damage Resistances acid, cold, fire, lightning, thunder; 
bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing from nonmagical 
attacks
Damage Immunities necrotic, poison
Condition Immunities charmed, exhaustion, grappled, 
paralyzed, petrified, poisoned, prone, restrained, 
unconscious
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 11
Languages Common, Elvish
Challenge 1 (200 XP)
Incorporeal Movement. The spectral memory can 
move through other creatures and objects as if they 
were difficult terrain. It takes 5 (1d10) force damage if 
it ends its turn inside an object.
Light Sensitivity. While in bright light, the spectral 
memory has disadvantage on attack rolls as well as on 
Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight.
Remembered Expertise. If the spectral memory makes 
an attack roll while at least one creature within 30 feet 
of it is missing a memory from Memory Drain, the 
spectral memory can roll a d4 and add the number 
rolled to the attack roll.
ACTIONS
Memory Drain. Melee Spell Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., 
one creature. Hit: 7 (2d6) necrotic damage. The target 
must succeed on a DC 10 Wisdom saving throw or lose 
a cherished memory. This loss lasts until the target

--- PAGE 176 ---
174
finishes a short or long rest. Whenever a creature that 
is missing a memory makes an ability check or attack 
roll, it must roll a d4 and subtract the number rolled 
from the ability check or attack roll.
TROLLKIN BANDIT
Medium humanoid, neutral
Armor Class 14 (hide armor)
Hit Points 11 (2d8 + 2)
Speed 30 ft. 
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
12 (+1)	 11 (+0)	
12 (+1)	
10 (+0)	 10 (+0)	
10 (+0) 
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 10
Languages Common, Trollkin
Challenge 1/4 (50 XP)
Regeneration. The trollkin regains 1 hp at the start of 
its turn. If the trollkin takes acid or fire damage, this 
trait doesn’t function at the start of the trollkin’s next 
turn. The trollkin dies only if it starts its turn with 0 hit 
points and doesn’t regenerate.
Thick Hide. The trollkin’s skin is thick and tough, 
granting it a +1 bonus to AC (included above).
ACTIONS
Handaxe. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, 
reach 5 ft. or range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d6 + 
1) slashing damage.
WEFT OF SHADOWS
Large monstrosity, neutral evil
Armor Class 17 (natural armor)
Hit Points 171 (18d10 + 72)
Speed 40 ft., fly 60 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
19 (+4)	 12 (+1)	
19 (+4)	
13 (+1)	 14 (+2)	
18 (+4)
Saving Throws Con +8
Skills Arcana +5, Intimidation +8, Perception +6, 
Stealth +5
Damage Immunities cold, necrotic
Condition Immunities charmed, exhaustion, 
frightened, stunned, unconscious
Senses darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 16
Languages Elvish, Umbral
Challenge 12 (8,400 XP)
Shadow Blend. In areas of dim light or darkness, the 
Weft of Shadows is invisible.
Shadow Traveler (5/Day). As a bonus action while in 
shadows, dim light, or darkness, the Weft of Shadows 
disappears into the darkness and reappears in an 
unoccupied space it can see within 30 feet. A tendril of 
inky smoke appears at the origin and destination when 
it uses this trait. If the Weft of Shadows is in the Blot, it 
can use this trait to teleport to any unoccupied space 
within the Blot, whether it can see the location or not.
Traveler in Darkness. The Weft of Shadows has 
advantage on Intelligence (Arcana) checks made to know 
about shadow roads and shadow magic spells or items.
ACTIONS
Multiattack. The Weft of Shadows makes three tentacle 
attacks.
Tentacle. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 10 ft., 
one creature. Hit: 13 (2d8 + 4) bludgeoning damage, 
plus 9 (2d8) necrotic damage, and the target is grappled 
(escape DC 16) if it is a Large or smaller creature and the 
Weft doesn’t have two other creatures grappled. Until 
the grapple ends, the target is restrained and takes 9 
(2d8) necrotic damage at the start of each of its turns.
LEGENDARY ACTIONS
The Weft of Shadows can take three legendary actions, 
choosing from the options below. Only one legendary 
action option can be used at a time and only at the 
end of another creature’s turn. The Weft of Shadows 
regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn.
Dismiss Light. The Weft of Shadows dispels a single 
source of magical light. This effect works like the dispel 
magic spell.
Move. The Weft of Shadows moves up to its speed 
without provoking opportunity attacks.
Strength Drain (Costs 2 Actions). The Weft of 
Shadows drains energy from one creature it is 
grappling. The target must succeed on a DC 16 
Constitution saving throw or have its Strength score 
reduced by 3 (1d6). The target dies if this legendary 
action reduces its Strength to 0. Otherwise, the 
reduction lasts until the target finishes a long rest. A 
humanoid that dies from this action rises as a shadow 
under the Weft of Shadows’s control at the start of the 
Weft’s next turn.

--- PAGE 177 ---
175
 
Kobold Press logo is a trademark of Open Design. 
By ethereal messengers and stealthy couriers, Kobold Press brings you WARLOCK: a black and white 
print booklet full of new material for your 5th Edition game. Focusing on the world of Midgard—but 
usable in any 5e campaign—WARLOCK offers new monsters, mini-adventures, magic items, and 
more! Plus, every once in a while, we’ll throw in a sticker, patch, or other special surprise…
Dark Fantasy for 5th Edition
www.patreon.com/koboldpress
Become a patron today, and discover the dark magic of WARLOCK!

--- PAGE 178 ---
OPEN GAME LICENSE Version 1.0a 
The following text is the property of Wizards of the Coast, Inc. and is 
Copyright 2000 Wizards of the Coast, Inc (“Wizards”). All Rights Reserved. 
1. Definitions: (a)”Contributors” means the copyright and/
or trademark owners who have contributed Open Game Content; 
(b)”Derivative Material” means copyrighted material including derivative 
works and translations (including into other computer languages), 
potation, modification, correction, addition, extension, upgrade, 
improvement, compilation, abridgment or other form in which an existing 
work may be recast, transformed or adapted; (c) “Distribute” means to 
reproduce, license, rent, lease, sell, broadcast, publicly display, transmit 
or otherwise distribute; (d)”Open Game Content” means the game 
mechanic and includes the methods, procedures, processes and routines 
to the extent such content does not embody the Product Identity and is 
an enhancement over the prior art and any additional content clearly 
identified as Open Game Content by the Contributor, and means any 
work covered by this License, including translations and derivative 
works under copyright law, but specifically excludes Product Identity. (e) 
“Product Identity” means product and product line names, logos and 
identifying marks including trade dress; artifacts; creatures characters; 
stories, storylines, plots, thematic elements, dialogue, incidents, 
language, artwork, symbols, designs, depictions, likenesses, formats, 
poses, concepts, themes and graphic, photographic and other visual 
or audio representations; names and descriptions of characters, spells, 
enchantments, personalities, teams, personas, likenesses and special 
abilities; places, locations, environments, creatures, equipment, magical 
or supernatural abilities or effects, logos, symbols, or graphic designs; 
and any other trademark or registered trademark clearly identified 
as Product identity by the owner of the Product Identity, and which 
specifically excludes the Open Game Content; (f) “Trademark” means the 
logos, names, mark, sign, motto, designs that are used by a Contributor 
to identify itself or its products or the associated products contributed 
to the Open Game License by the Contributor (g) “Use”, “Used” or 
“Using” means to use, Distribute, copy, edit, format, modify, translate and 
otherwise create Derivative Material of Open Game Content. (h) “You” or 
“Your” means the licensee in terms of this agreement.
2. The License: This License applies to any Open Game Content that 
contains a notice indicating that the Open Game Content may only be 
Used under and in terms of this License. You must affix such a notice to 
any Open Game Content that you Use. No terms may be added to or 
subtracted from this License except as described by the License itself. No 
other terms or conditions may be applied to any Open Game Content 
distributed using this License. 
3. Offer and Acceptance: By Using the Open Game Content You 
indicate Your acceptance of the terms of this License. 
4. Grant and Consideration: In consideration for agreeing to use this 
License, the Contributors grant You a perpetual, worldwide, royalty-free, 
nonexclusive license with the exact terms of this License to Use, the Open 
Game Content. 
5. Representation of Authority to Contribute: If You are 
contributing original material as Open Game Content, You represent that 
Your Contributions are Your original creation and/or You have sufficient 
rights to grant the rights conveyed by this License. 
6. Notice of License Copyright: You must update the COPYRIGHT 
NOTICE portion of this License to include the exact text of the 
COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any Open Game Content You are copying, 
modifying or distributing, and You must add the title, the copyright date, 
and the copyright holder’s name to the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any 
original Open Game Content you Distribute. 
7. Use of Product Identity: You agree not to Use any Product 
Identity, including as an indication as to compatibility, except as expressly 
licensed in another, independent Agreement with the owner of each 
element of that Product Identity. You agree not to indicate compatibility 
or co-adaptability with any Trademark or Registered Trademark in 
conjunction with a work containing Open Game Content except as 
expressly licensed in another, independent Agreement with the owner of 
such Trademark or Registered Trademark. The use of any Product Identity 
in Open Game Content does not constitute a challenge to the ownership 
of that Product Identity. The owner of any Product Identity used in Open 
Game Content shall retain all rights, title and interest in and to that 
Product Identity.
8. Identification: If you distribute Open Game Content You must 
clearly indicate which portions of the work that you are distributing are 
Open Game Content. 
9. Updating the License: Wizards or its designated Agents may 
publish updated versions of this License. You may use any authorized 
version of this License to copy, modify and distribute any Open Game 
Content originally distributed under any version of this License. 
10. Copy of this License: You MUST include a copy of this License 
with every copy of the Open Game Content You Distribute. 
11. Use of Contributor Credits: You may not market or advertise the 
Open Game Content using the name of any Contributor unless You have 
written permission from the Contributor to do so. 
12. Inability to Comply: If it is impossible for You to comply with any 
of the terms of this License with respect to some or all of the Open Game 
Content due to statute, judicial order, or governmental regulation then 
You may not Use any Open Game Material so affected. 
13. Termination: This License will terminate automatically if You fail 
to comply with all terms herein and fail to cure such breach within 30 
days of becoming aware of the breach. All sublicenses shall survive the 
termination of this License. 
14. Reformation: If any provision of this License is held to be 
unenforceable, such provision shall be reformed only to the extent 
necessary to make it enforceable. 
15. COPYRIGHT NOTICE 
Open Game License v 1.0a Copyright 2000, Wizards of the Coast, Inc. 
System Reference Document 5.0 Copyright 2016, Wizards of the 
Coast, Inc.; Authors Mike Mearls, Jeremy Crawford, Chris Perkins, Rodney 
Thompson, Peter Lee, James Wyatt, Robert J. Schwalb, Bruce R. Cordell, 
Chris Sims, and Steve Townshend, based on original material by E. Gary 
Gygax and Dave Arneson.
Ill Met by Moonlight. © 2018 Open Design LLC. Authors: Carlos 
Ovalle and Holly Ovalle.
Pride of the Mushroom Queen. © 2018 Open Design LLC. Author: 
Mike Welham.
Shadow’s Envy. © 2018 Open Design LLC. Author: Mike Welham. 
The Bagiennik Game. © 2018 Open Design LLC. Author: Jon Sawatsky. 
The Empty Village. © 2018 Open Design LLC. Author: Mike Welham. 
Wrath of the Bramble King. © 2018 Open Design LLC. Author: Mike 
Welham.
Out of Phase. © 2019 Open Design LLC. Author: Celeste Conowitch.
Run Like Hell. © 2019 Open Design LLC. Author: Mike Welham. 
The Wilding Call. © 2019 Open Design LLC. Author: Mike Welham. 
Beneath the Witchwillow. © 2020 Open Design LLC. Author: Sarah 
Madsen.
Deep Magic for 5th Edition. © 2020 Open Design LLC. Authors: Dan 
Dillon, Chris Harris, and Jeff Lee.
Raid on the Savage Oasis. © 2020 Open Design LLC. Author: Jeff Lee.
The Light of Memoria. © 2020 Open Design LLC. Author: Victoria 
Jaczko. 
The White Word Accord. © 2020 Open Design LLC. Author: Lou 
Anders.
A Life in the Family. © 2021 Open Design LLC. Author: Victoria Jaczko.
Against the Dust Goblin Oracle. © 2021 Open Design LLC. Author: 
Jeff Lee.
Moonlight Sonata. © 2021 Open Design LLC. Author: Celeste 
Conowitch.
Race for the Shining Dawn. © 2021 Open Design LLC. Author: Jeff 
Lee.
Terror in Altbach. © 2021 Open Design LLC. Author: Nick Muzekari.
The Undying Flame. © 2021 Open Design LLC. Author: Mike Welham.
Warlock Lairs: Into the Wilds. © 2022 Open Design LLC. Authors: 
Lou Anders, Celeste Conowitch, Victoria Jaczko, Jeff Lee, Sarah Madsen, 
Nick Muzekari, Carlos Ovalle, Holly Ovalle, Jon Sawatsky, Mike Welham.

--- PAGE 180 ---
$29.99
ISBN: 978-1-950789-29-0
Printed in China
PO Box 2811
Kirkland WA 98083
The Wilderness Calls
The Wilderness Calls
Bugs gather in thick, buzzing clouds, constantly biting. Leaves whisper and cast 
strange shadows. You almost stepped in some weird monster scat. Life is good—
because you’re on an adventure!
Warlock Lairs: Into the Wilds presents 19 wilderness-themed 5th Edition adventures, 
each playable in a single session and easy to drop into your fantasy campaign. These 
short quests take characters away from civilized lands and into untamed regions:
•   19 top-rated adventures for heroes of 1st to 10th level, from Warlock Lairs 
•	 Fully compatible with the world’s first tabletop RPG
•	 Set in remote, all-but-forgotten locales, including blasted wastes, lush fey forests, 
and harsh northlands
•	 Includes four brand-new excursions from seasoned authors
The opportunities are great—and so are the risks.
Gather your gear and explore the wilds!