--- PAGE 1 ---
A 5E WARLOCK ADVENTURE 
BY MIKE WELHAM
The Dark    
  Aerie 
AN ADVENTURE FOR 4 
PCS OF 8TH LEVEL

--- PAGE 2 ---
Kobold Press, Midgard, Open Design, and their associated logos are trademarks 
of Open Design.
Product Identity: The following items are hereby identified as Product Identity, 
as defined in the Open Game License version 1.0a, Section 1(e), and are not 
Open Content: All trademarks, registered trademarks, proper names (characters, 
place names, new deities, etc.), dialogue, plots, story elements, locations, 
characters, artwork, sidebars, and trade dress. (Elements that have previously 
been designated as Open Game Content are not included in this declaration.)
Open Game Content: The Open content in this book includes the Roc Zombie, 
Wereowl, Gnoll Slaver, and Werehyena monster stat blocks and the Eyes of the 
Owl item.
© 2019 Open Design LLC
www.koboldpress.com
cult’s patron provided the catalyst for the transformation of 
one of the cultists into an owl-elf hybrid, the first wereowl. 
Though a scratch from the wereowl’s talon carried the 
curse of lycanthropy, Delaria prefers the “purity” of the 
ritual’s transformation, and she forbade the wereowl from 
spreading its curse to the other cultists. She allowed the 
wereowl to hunt and infect the humanoids of the Red 
Wastes with lycanthropy, and she awaits the inevitable 
response from the neighboring group of gnolls she failed to 
convert to the worship of Alquam, or locals looking to put 
an end to her cult.
Adventure Hooks
Research on a magic item or relic the PCs have been 
tracking might lead them to the Aerial Circus’s former 
location. The PCs may hear about a reward for evidence of 
the existence of rare owl-headed rocs rumored to hide in the 
Red Wastes. Alternatively, a horse tribe of the Qaen Plain 
might hire the PCs to track and destroy silent, flying hunters 
that have been absconding with the tribe’s horses. Finally, 
a minor noble may enlist the PCs to track down a relative 
taken by gnoll slavers.
THE DARK AERIE
Design: Mike Welham
Editing: Meagan Maricle 
Art Director & Graphic Design: Marc Radle
Art: William McAusland, Phil Stone
Cartography: Dyson Logos
Publisher: Wolfgang Baur
TM
Adventure Background
The traveling Aerial Circus showcased flying monsters and 
people enhanced by magic performing death-defying stunts 
in flight. The performers based themselves in a remote bluff 
in the Red Wastes, which also afforded them safety from the 
gnolls patrolling the desert. When the circus came under fire 
due to an unfortunate incident involving their owl-headed 
roc killing an audience member, the performers disbanded 
and vacated their base.
Shortly thereafter, the shadow fey enchantress Delaria 
received visions about the compound and an urge to travel 
there. At first, she thought the compulsion came from the 
Queen of Night and Magic, but her patron, Alquam, Demon 
Lord of the Night (Tome of Beasts, p. 84), soon revealed its 
identity to her. Dissatisfied with the path to power provided 
by following Queen Sarastra, Delaria believed the demon 
lord would hasten her rise. She duped a small band of 
shadow fey into believing she worshipped an owl-based 
aspect of the Queen of Night and Magic and led them to 
the Red Wastes. At Alquam’s behest, Delaria led her cult 
to capture a mated pair of owl-headed rocs. Blood from 
the strange breed of rocs and a touch of power from the

--- PAGE 3 ---
3
Traveling the Red Wastes
The temperature is unbearably warm for most of the trek 
to the Aerial Circus. In addition to this persistent heat, the 
trip through the desert also features a terrible sandstorm, a 
potential encounter with a gnoll slaver patrol leading the PCs 
to the gnolls’ camp, and a hint about what the PCs will face 
in the aerie.
SCOURING SANDSTORM
Most desert sandstorms are barely more than annoyances 
which reduce visibility and require the effort of emptying 
sand from boots and packs after the sandstorm subsides. 
Alquam’s recent emergence combines with the Red 
Wastes’ hostile environment to create a devastating cyclone 
of stinging sand that appears sporadically in the area 
surrounding the circus.
A successful DC 15 Wisdom (Survival) check alerts the 
PCs to the danger shortly before it occurs, giving them time 
to construct impromptu shelters, if they have the materials. 
A successful DC 15 Wisdom (Survival) check builds a shelter 
capable of protecting one creature from the storm. If the 
check succeeds by 5 or more, the shelter can accommodate 
an additional creature.
When the storm strikes, unprotected creatures must 
make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw, taking 22 (4d10) 
piercing damage on a failed save, or half as much damage 
on a successful one. A creature without eye protection that 
fails the saving throw is blinded for 1 hour or until it receives 
magical healing. 
GNOLL SCOUTING PARTY
A pack of gnolls, numbering two gnoll slavers (Creature 
Codex, p. 189 or page 12) and six gnolls, searches for 
caravans to plunder and lesser creatures to enslave. 
Currently, they have three commoners in chains and 
manacles, with two of the gnolls holding those chains. A 
successful DC 14 Wisdom (Perception) check spots the 
scouting party before the gnolls notice the PCs. A successful 
DC 16 Dexterity (Stealth) check among the dunes dotting 
the Red Wastes allows the PCs to remain out of the gnolls’ 
sight, giving the PCs a chance to ambush the gnolls.
If the gnolls spot the PCs, they approach. The slavers 
plan to knock the PCs unconscious, take their belongings, 
and capture them as slaves. A successful DC 16 Charisma 
(Intimidation) check convinces the craven creatures to 
back off from a fight, provided the PCs pay compensation 
of 100 gp per PC not taken as a slave. If the PCs refuse this 
“generous” offer, the gnolls attack, not wanting to end their 
encounter empty-handed. If reduced to half their number 
and one of the slavers has died, or if both slavers die, the 
remaining gnolls flee, leaving behind their slaves. 
If the PCs agree to the gnolls’ demand for compensation, 
they can further negotiate for the commoners’ freedom, at 
the cost of 200 gp per slave. Should anyone ask about the 
higher price, the gnolls explain they had to use resources 
on capturing and transporting the slaves and require more 
compensation for each slave. A successful DC 18 Charisma 
(Intimidation or Persuasion) check negotiates this down to 
100 gp per slave.
Development. If the PCs rescue the slaves, either by paying 
for them or killing or driving off the gnolls, the slaves believe 
they can make the trip to nearby Isphahan without any 
assistance. One of the slaves offers a reward of 500 gp to 
free her brother from the slavers encamped nearby. She had 
escaped with her brother’s help but was re-captured this 
morning. She knows the way to the gnoll camp and shares 
that knowledge with the PCs regardless of their decision to 
free her brother. Alternatively, a successful DC 14 Wisdom 
(Survival) or Intelligence (Investigation) check discovers the 
direction to the camp.
Shredskin Slaver Camp
The Shredskin tribe of gnolls hunt this area. They used to 
hunt humans and lesser dragons for sport and food and 
gave little regard for the victims of their hunts. When 
Laughing Fire rose to power after her transformation into a 
werehyena, she steered them away from mere hunting and 
killing to something she thought would be more lucrative 
and sustainable for the tribe: slavery. Laughing Fire worships 
Forresh, the Demon Lord of Snakes and Fire, who grants her 
his power.
The Shredskins have increased in notoriety as slavers, 
selling slaves to dragons from the Mharoti Empire and 
to centaurs and other tribes of the plains. They haven’t 
completely given up their hunts, however, often turning 
loose unchosen slaves for some sport.
Delaria took notice of the gnoll tribe and thought the 
gnolls would make excellent hunters in service to Alquam. 
However, unaware of Forresh’s involvement with the tribe, 
the shadow fey failed in her attempts to convert the Shredskin 
tribe to her demon lord. Though the gift of flight briefly 
tantalized Laughing Fire, the gnoll knew her blessings from 
Forresh prevented her from following another demon lord, 
and she certainly wasn’t going to permit the tribe to follow 
the other demon lord. Delaria hasn’t given up on bringing the 
Shredskins into her fold and has set a plan in motion to kill 
Laughing Fire and convert the remaining gnolls.
The tribe’s complement amounts to Laughing Fire, three 
gnoll slavers, and ten gnolls. Two of the gnolls stand guard 
in Area 2, while the other gnolls rest, taunt the slaves, or 
otherwise entertain themselves. If the PCs manage to catch 
the gnolls off-guard, notably by not setting off the trap in 
Area 1, the gnolls are slow to realize the camp is under attack 
and move to intercept the PCs in waves of three gnolls every 
1d4 + 1 rounds. You can adjust the number of gnolls at the 
camp under the pretense these gnolls have left to roam the

--- PAGE 4 ---
4
Red Wastes for more slaves, if your group is smaller than the 
recommended four PCs.
Unstable Ground. The gnolls worked the earth 5 feet around 
the camp’s perimeter, making it prone to collapse when 
a creature larger than a hyena sets foot on the ground. A 
creature moving within 5 feet of the camp’s rocky wall must 
succeed on a DC 12 Dexterity saving throw, falling 20 feet 
and alerting the camp on a failed save. On a successful save, 
some of the gnolls notice debris falling near the camp, which 
makes them suspicious and reduces the interval between 
waves of reinforcement gnolls 
to 1d2 rounds. A successful DC 
12 Wisdom (Survival) or DC 
15 Wisdom (Perception) check 
notices the ground’s instability.
1. ENTRANCE
The difficult cliff walls 
surrounding the encampment 
leave only one feasible entryway 
to the camp: a 10-foot-wide path 
on the southern end of the camp’s rocky hill.
Welcome to the Camp Trap. This trap serves the Shredskin 
tribe in two fashions: it alerts the gnolls to trespassers, and 
it acts as their first line of defense. A trip wire colored to 
match the ground runs from north to south through the 
space labeled ‘1’ on the map. When a creature breaks the 
trip wire, bells jingle loud enough to signal all gnolls in the 
camp who are currently awake. Simultaneously, a section 
of rock cut away from and resting against the wall slams to 
the ground. Each creature within 15 feet of the space labeled 
‘1’ on the map when the trap is triggered must succeed on a 
DC 15 Dexterity saving throw, taking 22 (4d10) bludgeoning 
damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a 
successful one.
Prevention. A successful DC 15 Intelligence 
(Investigation) or DC 18 Wisdom (Perception) 
check discovers the trip wire or the section cut 
from the wall. A successful DC 15 Dexterity 
check using thieves’ tools disables the trip wire 
harmlessly. A character without thieves’ tools can attempt 
this check with disadvantage using any edged weapon or 
edged tool. On a failed check, the trap triggers.
2. GNOLL GUARDS
Two gnolls stand guard at the opening to the camp. If the 
PCs don’t set off the trap in Area 1 or otherwise alert the 
camp, the bored guards pay little attention to their duties and 
have disadvantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks to notice 
stealthy PCs. If the gnolls survive an initial assault, they yip 
and howl to warn the rest of the camp about intruders.
3. SECLUDED CAVE
Laughing Fire, the Shredskin tribe’s werehyena (Creature 
Codex, p. 259 or page 12) leader, communes directly with 
Forresh in this cave set behind a boulder. Her blessing from 
Forresh scarred her, but she wears the scars with pride. If the 
PCs enter the camp without triggering the trap in Area 1, she 
is alone in the cave. Otherwise, she has two gnolls and one 
gnoll slaver accompanying her, while she waits to spring a 
surprise attack on the intruders. A successful DC 19 Wisdom 
(Perception) check notices the cave opening.

--- PAGE 5 ---
5
3
6
5
7
4
2
N
h
1
4. COVERED SNAKE HOLE
Forresh’s arrival through Laughing Fire precipitated the 
presence of strange snakes lairing in a large hole underneath 
a boulder. One swarm of poisonous snakes and two giant 
poisonous snakes bask on the boulder during the heat 
of the day and preserve their warmth under it when the 
temperatures drop at night. The snakes deal fire damage 
instead of poison damage when using their bite attacks. Only 
Laughing Fire can control the snakes, but they don’t harm 
the other gnolls. If she is aware of the PCs’ intrusion, she 
commands the snakes to attack. The snakes reach the PCs 1d4 
rounds after the last wave of gnolls.
5. SHRINE TO FORRESH
It took little effort for Laughing Fire to convert the Shredskin 
gnolls to the worship of Forresh, especially after she revealed 
her transformation into a werehyena. She commanded the 
gnolls to build a pyre from bits of wood and the remains 
of creatures killed by the tribe. The pyre has burned 
continuously since Laughing Fire’s touch set it alight. During 
MAP: CLICK HERE TO DOWNLOAD THIS MAP FOR YOUR VIRTUAL TABLE TOP.

--- PAGE 6 ---
6
the day, sunlight masks the light from the pyre, but at night 
travelers can see the pyre’s lurid red glow a quarter mile away 
from the camp.
Jumping Fire Trap. The shrine is another defense 
mechanism for the Shredskin tribe. A snake-like tendril of 
fire strikes at any creature that is not a gnoll or hyena moving 
within 5 feet of the pyre. The tendril attacks with a +6 bonus 
and inflicts 4d10 fire damage on a successful hit. 
Prevention. A successful DC 16 Intelligence (Arcana) 
check realizes the danger posed by proximity to the pyre. 
A successful dispel magic (DC 16) cast on the pyre disables 
the trap for 24 hours. If Laughing Fire is killed, she can’t 
rekindle the pyre, which effectively destroys it until Forresh 
locates a new host for his power.
Treasure. A successful DC 12 Intelligence (Investigation) 
check finds a fire opal worth 250 gp within the pyre.
6. HYENA RUN
Three hyenas and one giant hyena, which the Shredskin 
gnolls have loosely trained, prowl the area around the slave 
pit, serving as a deterrent to those thinking of escape. If the 
tribe becomes aware of the PCs’ arrival in advance, they 
command the hyenas to attack any non-gnoll attempting 
to enter or leave the slave pit. Suitably afraid of their gnoll 
masters, the hyenas fight to the death.
7. SLAVE PIT
The Shredskins keep their fodder for slave trades within this 
depression. The nearby hyenas and the difficult-to-climb 
rock walls of the pit keep the slaves in the area. A successful 
DC 20 Strength (Athletics) check scales the walls into the 
pit. Alternatively, a creature can enter or exit the pit through 
tiered, stair-like rocks on the southwestern edge of the pit. 
The gnolls meet the odd attempt at escape or rebellion with 
glee, as it gives them a chance to harm the escapee or dissident 
without fear of punishment. Despite the gnolls’ apparent 
savagery, they treat slaves who obey reasonably well, providing 
suitable food and water and modest sleeping accommodations 
(still under the stars). Haggard slaves don’t bring in as much 
money, and Laughing Fire reasons these “niceties” serve a 
practical purpose. Currently, the slaves number four human 
commoners and one shadow fey wereowl.
Development. Delaria sent the wereowl, Demetriev, to be 
captured by the gnolls and to kill Laughing Fire when the 
opportunity presented itself. Delaria planned for Demetriev 
to invoke the right to the tribe’s leadership for killing the 
previous chief, making it a simple matter to convert them 
to Alquam’s worship. The PCs’ intervention quashes those 
plans, especially if the PCs kill most of the gnolls. However, 
Demetriev sees the PCs’ arrival as an opportunity to infect 
obviously more powerful creatures with wereowl lycanthropy. 
He asks to remain with the PCs for protection and seems 
unconcerned by the notion that they plan to travel further 
into the Red Wastes (meanwhile, the commoners are more 
than happy to journey to Isphahan as a group). During the 
remaining travel to the Aerial Circus, he tries to separate 
one of the PCs from the party or surreptitiously scratch a PC 
with his talons. If no such opportunity presents itself, he is 
content to play the part of lost traveler grateful for protection 
by his saviors. He then betrays the group at the earliest 
chance within the circus. A successful DC 15 Wisdom 
(Insight) check sees through Demetriev’s ruse.
A BIZARRE DISCOVERY
After encountering the gnoll slavers and about a day out from 
reaching the Aerial Circus, the PCs find a sphere, roughly 3 
feet in diameter, containing bones and feathers. A successful 
DC 12 Intelligence (Nature) check recognizes this as a much 
larger version of a bolus, a pellet regurgitated by an owl. 
Another successful DC 12 Intelligence (Nature) check while 
examining the bolus’s components discovers bones belonging 
to horses, livestock, large birds, and many rodents.
Aerial Circus
Set into a high butte in the Red Wastes, the Aerial Circus’s 
home stood out of reach of most of the creatures haunting 
the desert. The entrance cavern is easily visible from the 
north. Unless otherwise noted, the ceilings in the complex 
are 15 feet high.
Illumination. The entire complex is engulfed in darkness. 
Due to Alquam’s influence, all light sources, including those 
produced by spells or magic items, shed light to only half the 
usual radius.
1. ASCENT
The bluff’s walls climb 30 feet to the aerie’s entrance. 
Assuming the PCs have done nothing drastic to alert the 
complex’s residents and they arrive during the day when 
most of the inhabitants are asleep, they face no resistance 
when scaling the walls.
2. MAIN CAVERN
The Aerial Circus discovered this natural cavern near the 
butte’s peak and built their complex around it. The cavern 
has 30-foot-high ceilings. Dozens of owls drawn to Alquam 
roost among the cavern’s nooks. They become a swarm 
of owls (use the statistics of a swarm of ravens), attacking 
creatures that move near the flight of stairs leading to Area 7.
A successful DC 18 Intelligence (Religion) check realizes 
the owls’ behavior is consistent with owls found near shrines 
to Alquam, the Demon Lord of Night. 
Development. When the PCs reenter this cavern after 
spending time in the complex beyond it, two wereowls 
returning from a recent hunt attack the PCs. The creatures 
work together to grapple nonflying foes and push or drop

--- PAGE 7 ---
7
MAP: CLICK HERE TO DOWNLOAD THIS MAP FOR YOUR VIRTUAL TABLE TOP.
them over the ledge to the ground 30 feet below. They fight 
to the death.
3. ROC CAGE
The Aerial Circus built two caged sections at the rear of 
the cavern to house their beastly performers. They prided 
themselves on the care of their animals, which enjoyed 
relative comfort in their captivity. Such is not the case for 
the unusual owl-like roc currently imprisoned here. It 
has 82 hit points remaining and has 3 levels of exhaustion 
due to the abuse dealt to it by the cult. A successful DC 
13 Wisdom (Animal Handling) check calms the roc. 
Once calmed, the roc remains silent, allowing the PCs to 
approach and move past it to open the door to Area 4. If an 
elf is among the PCs and the roc sees the elf, the PCs have 
disadvantage on this check.
T
3
15
4
14
13
7
6
8
1
5
2
9
10
11
12
T
N
h

--- PAGE 8 ---
8
Locked Cage. A door with a latch and a simple lock closes 
the cage. A successful DC 12 Dexterity check using thieves’ 
tools picks the lock. Alternatively, a successful DC 15 
Strength check breaks the latch and pulls open the door. 
Concerned for its eggs in Area 4, the imprisoned roc never 
attempted to break down the door.
Development. If the PCs reunite the roc with its eggs, it 
flies away with the eggs, attacking any creature physically 
preventing it from leaving. 
4. ROC EGGS
The cultists retrieved a pair of eggs from the owl roc’s nest 
when they captured it, and they use the eggs to keep the 
roc in line. Though the roc in Area 3 is unaware of this, the 
cultists have no intention of destroying the eggs, especially 
following the loss of the roc in Area 5 after a cultist 
accidentally smashed an egg in view of the roc.
Latched Cage. The door to this area is sturdier than the 
other cage and shows signs of battering by the roc. It is 
latched but unlocked.
Secret Door. The door to Area 12 is hidden and locked. 
A successful DC 15 Intelligence (Investigation) check 
discovers the seams of the hidden door cut into the natural 
cavern. A successful DC 16 Dexterity check using thieves’ 
tools picks the lock.
Treasure. The roc eggs are worth 500 gp each to an 
interested collector of exotic animals. If the PCs give the eggs 
to the roc, the roc returns to the aerie (or the surrounding 
area if the PCs have already departed the aerie) an hour later 
with jewelry worth 1,275 gp from its nest.
5. DEAD ROC
After one of the cultists broke the egg in Area 6, the captive 
roc held here went berserk, forcing them to dispatch the 
creature. The roc corpse lurches to undeath as a zombie roc 
(see page 10) 1 round after the PCs enter the enclosure. A 
successful DC 18 Wisdom (Religion) check while within 10 
feet of the still body realizes it is an undead creature.
Locked Cage. A door with a latch and a simple lock closes 
the cage. A successful DC 12 Dexterity check using thieves’ 
tools picks the lock. Alternatively, a successful DC 15 
Strength check batters down the door. If the PCs’ presence 
activated the zombie roc, and the PCs retreated to Area 2 
after latching the cage again, it uses an action to break down 
the door to get to the PCs.
6. CRUSHED EGG
The shattered shell of a giant egg contains the remains of an 
embryonic owl-like roc. One of the shadow fey accidentally 
destroyed the egg, spurring the wrath of its parent and 
resulting in the roc’s untimely death. Unlike the cage in Area 
4, the door to this cage is open.
Secret Door. The door to Area 12 is hidden and locked. A 
successful DC 15 Intelligence (Investigation) check discovers 
the seams of the hidden door cut into the natural cavern. A 
successful DC 16 Dexterity check using thieves’ tools picks 
the lock.
7. PRACTICE STAGE
This platform is 20 feet up from the cavern’s floor and 
accessible via three flights of stairs. During private rehearsals 
or auditions of new acts, the double doors leading to this 
platform were closed. Otherwise, the doors were left open, 
allowing the troupe to view and comment on new routines 
practiced prior to a public show. Currently, the doors are 
open.
8. GUARDED ACCESS
Two shadow fey duelists (Tome of Beasts, p. 171) act as the 
first line of defense against intrusion. The pair work together 
to create a bottleneck at the door, allowing them to fight one 
opponent at a time. The duelists are sworn to give their lives 
for the cult and fight to the death.
9. COMMANDER’S QUARTERS
Geryk, a shadow fey forest hunter (Tome of Beasts, p. 173), 
believes the lie about this cult being a sect of the Queen 
of Night and Magic’s followers. However, the shrewd elf 
has noticed a couple of things that don’t quite mesh with 
his view of Queen Sarastra. Surprised by intruders, he 
asks why the PCs are in the aerie and listens to credible 
evidence about Alquam’s influence. A successful DC 15 
Charisma (Persuasion) check convinces him of the truth of 
the PCs’ allegations. Armed with this information, he plans 
to confront Delaria, but he insists the PCs take no action 
against the enchantress while he speaks with her, unless she 
directly threatens him or the PCs.
10. FLYING SURPRISE
An owlbear lurks in this chamber. It has been blessed 
by Alquam’s power and has a flying speed of 30 feet. The 
creature shrieks during combat, alerting the complex to the 
presence of intruders, and it fights to the death.
11. HONORED GUESTS
This room is filled with moldering equipment that once 
belonged to the Aerial Circus. Two owl harpies (Tome of 
Beasts, p. 246) in service to Alquam wait here, amusing 
themselves with the baubles from the circus. While they are 
free to move about the complex—the owlbear in Area 10

--- PAGE 9 ---
9
recognizes them as allies—they are content to wait here, even 
if they hear the commotion of battle from beyond this room. 
However, they intend to protect the demon lord’s interest in 
this place and fight to the death.
12. CAGE ACCESS
This long corridor served two purposes, the first of which 
was to provide hidden access to the animals held by the 
Aerial Circus. The doors leading to Areas 4 and 6 have slots, 
which troupe members used to provide food for the captive 
creatures. In cases where they had to access the animals in 
Area 3 or 5, they would tranquilize dangerous animals before 
proceeding onward.
Floor Spikes. The corridor’s second purpose was to test the 
circus troupe’s acrobatic or flying skills. It also serves as an 
impromptu trap for the unwary. The trap activates when 
more than 20 pounds of weight is placed on a pressure plate 
(indicated with a ‘T’ on the map). Each creature within 
10 feet of a pressure plate when the trap is triggered must 
succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or take 11 (2d10) 
piercing damage. The trap automatically resets after it is 
triggered. 
Prevention. A successful DC 14 Intelligence 
(Investigation) or Wisdom (Perception) check finds the 
pressure plate. Wedging an iron spike or other object 
under the pressure plate prevents the trap from activating.
Locked Doors. The doors to Area 4 and Area 6 are locked 
but are visible from this side. A successful DC 16 Dexterity 
check using thieves’ tools picks the lock.
Treasure. A shelf near each secret door holds two darts 
tipped with tranquilizing poison. Treat the darts as normal, 
except a target hit by one of the darts must succeed on a DC 
15 Constitution saving throw or be poisoned for 1 hour.
13. ENTRANCE TO THE INNER SANCTUM
Two shadow fey guardians (Tome of Beasts, p. 174) 
guard this room. Like all the complex’s shadow fey other 
than Delaria, they have no idea they serve a demon lord. 
However, they ignore entreaties to listen to the PCs. Only 
their commander, Geryk, can convince them of the truth. 
If he is with the PCs, the guardians allow the PCs access to 
Area 14. The guardians immediately raise the alarm if the 
PCs enter Area 13 unaccompanied by Geryk. If the PCs flee, 
the guardians don’t pursue anyone beyond the stairs leading 
to the lower part of Area 8.
Development. When one shadow fey guardian dies, the 
other retreats into Area 14, asking Delaria for assistance.
14. THE QUEEN’S LESSONS
Delaria, the shadow fey enchantress (Tome of Beasts, p. 172) 
at the heart of the cult’s operation, teaches her followers 
Alquam’s tenets under the guise of an offshoot form of 
worship of the Queen of Night and Magic. When she isn’t 
instructing her followers and isn’t leading a ritual in the 
adjoining chamber, she remains here to guard the ritual 
room. Feverishly devoted to Alquam, she fights to the death 
to keep the unworthy from entering the ritual room in 
Area 15. She assumes the shadow fey guardians can handle 
disruptions and doesn’t investigate if combat breaks out in 
Area 13. If one of the shadow fey guardians brings a fight 
into her chamber, she joins the combat, aiding the guardian 
against intruders.
A dozen prayer books seemingly devoted to the Queen 
of Night and Magic rest on the floor. A DC 16 Intelligence 
(Religion) check after 10 minutes of reading realizes the 
prayers don’t quite match the Queen’s doctrines and instead 
invoke a brutal aspect more in line with a demon than 
Sarastra’s graceful nature. A shadow fey who reads a prayer 
book has disadvantage on this check, owing to enchantments 
Delaria placed on the texts.
Development. If Geryk is with the PCs, he attempts to 
convince her to change her ways and return to the Queen of 
Night and Magic’s service. Delaria entertains his pleas for a 
few minutes before using dominate person on him to force 
him to attack the PCs.
Treasure. Delaria wears a set of eyes of the owl (see page 12).
15. RITUAL ROOM
This chamber contains a rectangular rug, which seems 
to absorb all light in the room, surrounded by several 
circular mats. A ritual dagger crafted from a block of lead 
and stained with blood sits on the rug. Delaria and her 
unknowing followers conduct rituals to bridge the gap 
between Alquam’s realm in the Abyss and the Red Wastes. 
Blood shed to transform shadow fey into wereowls further 
enlarges the portal.
A newly-created wereowl (see page 11) in hybrid form 
attacks intruders who enter this room. If it hears combat in 
Area 14, it enters that area 4 rounds later.
Alquam’s tenuous link to the aerie originates from this 
room. It can manifest a portion of its power in this room 
where a nascent portal to its lair has formed. A successful 
DC 16 Intelligence (Arcana) check realizes a partially-
open portal sits in the southern wall, and it is capable of 
allowing a portion of Alquam’s power from the Abyss into 
this chamber. A successful DC 19 Intelligence (Arcana) 
check while within 10 feet of the portal closes it for 1 hour. 
A successful dispel magic (DC 15) cast on the southern wall 
destroys the portal. Unsuccessfully attempting to close the 
portal triggers the Aspect of Alquam.

--- PAGE 10 ---
10
Aspect of Alquam. If a creature other than the aerie’s 
current inhabitants moves within 5 feet of the wall adjoining 
Area 10, a shadowy wing and set of talons emerge from 
the portal to attack those nearby. The wing and talons each 
make a melee attack with a +7 bonus against a random target 
within 10 feet of the portal (vision is irrelevant to this attack 
roll). A target that is hit takes 2d10 bludgeoning damage 
(wing) or slashing damage (talons).
Treasure. The leaden ritual dagger is worth 50 gp.
Concluding the Adventure
If the PCs came to the aerie in search of clues to a magic 
item or relic, they find it among Delaria’s belongings. If they 
instead undertook a mission to locate owl-headed rocs or 
end the destruction of horses, they receive a 1,000 gp reward 
for their efforts.
The cleared-out aerie may serve as a base of operations 
for the PCs, provided they dispel the portal to Alquam’s 
Abyssal home or perform a cleansing ritual to permanently 
close the portal. Regardless of how the PCs deal with the 
aerie, the demon lord has marked them as enemies and seeks 
vengeance against them.
Likewise, if the PCs killed Laughing Fire, they earn 
Forresh’s enmity, and the demon searches for a suitable gnoll 
host to track down and enslave his new foes. Fortunately for 
the PCs, the demon lords refuse to work together to retaliate 
against their mutual enemies. However, if Laughing Fire 
managed to escape, Forresh is content to hold off on his 
revenge, at least until the gnoll rebuilds the Shredskin tribe.
ROC ZOMBIE
This formerly magnificent and massive bird of prey has gray, 
tattered feathers, revealing patches of rotting skin, and its eyes 
are clouded over. Despite the decaying nature of the bird, it 
can still hold itself aloft.
A zombie roc requires enormous necromantic power, 
putting its creation out of the reach of all but the most potent 
necromancers. However, in locations influenced by mighty, 
evil creatures with a purview over avians, a roc brutally killed 
might return as a zombie. The undead roc retains its ability 
to fly, albeit limited compared to a living specimen. 
Undead Nature. A roc zombie doesn’t require air, food, 
drink, or sleep.
ROC ZOMBIE
Gargantuan undead, neutral evil
Armor Class 11 (natural armor)
Hit Points 200 (16d20 + 32)
Speed 20 ft., fly 60 ft.
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
23 (+6)	
6 (–2)	
14 (+2)	
3 (–4)	
6 (–2)	
5 (–3)
Saving Throws Wis +1
Damage Immunities poison
Condition Immunities poisoned
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 8
Languages —
Challenge 8 (3,900 XP)
Undead Fortitude. If damage reduces the roc zombie to 
0 hit points, it must make a Constitution saving throw 
with a DC of 5 + the damage taken, unless the damage 
is radiant or from a critical hit. On a success, the roc 
zombie drops to 1 hit point instead.
Actions
Multiattack. The roc zombie makes two attacks: one with 
its beak and one with its talons.
Beak. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 10 ft., one 
target. Hit: 24 (4d8 + 6) piercing damage.
Talons. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 20 (4d6 + 6) slashing damage.

--- PAGE 11 ---
11
WEREOWL
This feathered humanoid 
has piercing eyes, larger than 
normal for a humanoid’s 
head, set around a sharp 
beak. Wings spread from 
its arms, and its feet end 
in wicked talons.
A wereowl is a hybrid creature usually in 
service to a powerful creature with dominion 
over flying creatures. The affinity between owls 
and elves means most wereowls are elves, rather 
than humans typical among other lycanthropes. 
The wereowl possesses keen eyesight common 
to owls as well as the birds’ preternatural ability 
to fly silently. Its appetite tends toward its avian 
nature, and it feasts on rodents and other small 
mammals, usually raw and directly after a successful hunt. Its 
attitudes toward rodents extends to wererats and rodent-like 
creatures, such as ratfolk, and it often prefers to attack such 
creatures to the exclusion of other foes.
WEREOWL
Medium humanoid (elf, shapechanger), lawful evil
Armor Class 13
Hit Points 117 (18d8 + 36)
Speed 30 ft. (fly 30 ft. in hybrid form, fly 60 ft. in owl form)
STR	
DEX	
CON	
INT	
WIS	
CHA
15 (+2)	
16 (+3)	
15 (+2)	
10 (+0)	
13 (+1)	
11 (+0)
Skills Perception +7, Stealth +6
Damage Immunities bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing 
from nonmagical attacks that aren’t silvered
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 17
Languages Common (can’t speak in owl form), Giant Owl 
(can’t speak in humanoid form)
Challenge 5 (1,800 XP)
Flyby. The wereowl doesn’t provoke opportunity attacks 
when it flies out of an enemy’s reach.
Keen Hearing and Sight. The wereowl has advantage on 
Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on hearing or sight.
Shapechanger. The wereowl can use its action to 
polymorph into an owl-humanoid hybrid or into a 
giant owl, or back into its true form, which is humanoid. 
Its statistics, other than its size, are the same in each 
form. Any equipment it is wearing or carrying isn’t 
transformed. It reverts to its true form if it dies.
Silent Flight (Hybrid or Owl Form Only). The wereowl 
has advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks when it flies.
Actions
Multiattack. In owl form, the wereowl makes two talon 
attacks. In humanoid form, it makes three shortbow or 
shortsword attacks. In hybrid form, it can attack like an 
owl or a humanoid.

--- PAGE 12 ---
12
Shortbow (Humanoid or Hybrid Form Only). Ranged 
Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, range 80/320 ft., one target. 
Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) piercing damage.
Shortsword (Humanoid or Hybrid Form Only). Melee 
Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 6 
(1d6 + 3) piercing damage.
Talon (Hybrid or Owl Form Only). Melee Weapon Attack: 
+5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (2d6 + 2) slashing 
damage. If the target is a humanoid, it must succeed 
on a DC 13 Constitution saving throw or be cursed with 
wereowl lycanthropy.
GNOLL SLAVER
Medium humanoid (gnoll), chaotic evil
Armor Class 15 (chain shirt)
Hit Points 71 (11d8 + 22)
Speed 30 ft.
STR 	
DEX 	
CON 	
INT 	
WIS 	
CHA
18 (+4) 	 15 (+2) 	 14 (+2) 	 12 (+1) 	 11 (+0) 	
12 (+1)
Skills Athletics +6, Intimidation +5, Perception +2, Stealth 
+6
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 12
Languages Common, Gnoll
Challenge 3 (700 XP)
Rampage. When the gnoll reduces a creature to 0 hp 
with a melee attack on its turn, the gnoll can take a 
bonus action to move up to half its speed and make a 
bite attack.
ACTIONS
Multiattack. The gnoll makes three attacks: one with its 
bite and two with its whip or three with its longbow.
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) piercing damage.
Whip. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 10ft., one 
target. Hit: 6 (1d4 + 4) slashing damage.
Longbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, range 
150/600 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d8 + 2) piercing damage.
Menace Captives (Recharge 5–6). The gnoll selects up to 
three creatures it has taken captive within 30 feet. Each 
creature must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw 
or have disadvantage for 1 minute on any attack rolls 
or skill checks to take actions other than those the gnoll 
has ordered it to take.
WEREHYENA
Medium humanoid (gnoll, shapechanger), chaotic evil
Armor Class 13 in gnoll form, 14 (natural armor) in hyena 
or hybrid form
Hit Points 58 (9d8 + 18)
Speed 30 ft. (50 ft. in hyena form)
STR 	
DEX 	
CON 	
INT 	
WIS 	
CHA
11 (+0) 	 16 (+3) 	 14 (+2) 	 10 (+0) 	 11 (+0) 	
10 (+0)
Skills Perception +2, Stealth +5
Damage Immunities bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing 
from nonmagical attacks not made with silver
Senses passive Perception 12
Languages Gnoll (can’t speak in hyena form)
Challenge 3 (700 XP)
Keen Hearing and Smell. The werehyena has advantage 
on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on hearing or 
smell.
Shapechanger. The werehyena can use its action to 
polymorph into a hyena-gnoll hybrid or into a hyena, or 
back into its true gnoll form. Its statistics, other than AC, 
are the same in each form. Any equipment it is wearing 
or carrying isn’t transformed. It reverts to its true form if 
it dies.
ACTIONS
Multiattack (Gnoll or Hybrid Form Only). The 
werehyena makes two attacks: one with its bite and one 
with its claws or scimitar.
Bite (Hyena or Hybrid Form Only). Melee Weapon 
Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d8 + 
3) piercing damage. If the target is humanoid, it must 
succeed on a DC 12 Constitution saving throw or be 
cursed with werehyena lycanthropy.
Claws (Hybrid Form Only). Melee Weapon Attack: +5 
to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (2d4 + 3) slashing 
damage.
Scimitar (Gnoll or Hybrid Form Only). Melee Weapon 
Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 7 (1d8 + 3) 
slashing damage.
EYES OF THE OWL
Wondrous item, uncommon (requires attunement)
These translucent onyx lenses fit over the eyes. While 
wearing them, your eyes appear much larger than usual. 
In addition, you have advantage on Wisdom (Perception) 
checks that rely on sight, and you don’t have disadvantage 
on such checks when in a lightly-obscured area if the 
disadvantage is caused by dim light.

--- PAGE 13 ---
13
OPEN GAME LICENSE Version 1.0a 
The following text is the property of Wizards of the Coast, Inc. and 
is Copyright 2000 Wizards of the Coast, Inc (“Wizards”). All Rights 
Reserved. 
1. Definitions: (a)”Contributors” means the copyright and/or 
trademark owners who have contributed Open Game Content; 
(b)”Derivative Material” means copyrighted material including 
derivative works and translations (including into other computer 
languages), potation, modification, correction, addition, extension, 
upgrade, improvement, compilation, abridgment or other form in 
which an existing work may be recast, transformed or adapted; (c) 
“Distribute” means to reproduce, license, rent, lease, sell, broadcast, 
publicly display, transmit or otherwise distribute; (d)”Open Game 
Content” means the game mechanic and includes the methods, 
procedures, processes and routines to the extent such content does 
not embody the Product Identity and is an enhancement over the 
prior art and any additional content clearly identified as Open Game 
Content by the Contributor, and means any work covered by this 
License, including translations and derivative works under copyright 
law, but specifically excludes Product Identity. (e) “Product Identity” 
means product and product line names, logos and identifying 
marks including trade dress; artifacts; creatures characters; stories, 
storylines, plots, thematic elements, dialogue, incidents, language, 
artwork, symbols, designs, depictions, likenesses, formats, poses, 
concepts, themes and graphic, photographic and other visual or 
audio representations; names and descriptions of characters, spells, 
enchantments, personalities, teams, personas, likenesses and special 
abilities; places, locations, environments, creatures, equipment, 
magical or supernatural abilities or effects, logos, symbols, or 
graphic designs; and any other trademark or registered trademark 
clearly identified as Product identity by the owner of the Product 
Identity, and which specifically excludes the Open Game Content; 
(f) “Trademark” means the logos, names, mark, sign, motto, designs 
that are used by a Contributor to identify itself or its products or the 
associated products contributed to the Open Game License by the 
Contributor (g) “Use”, “Used” or “Using” means to use, Distribute, 
copy, edit, format, modify, translate and otherwise create Derivative 
Material of Open Game Content. (h) “You” or “Your” means the 
licensee in terms of this agreement.
2. The License: This License applies to any Open Game Content 
that contains a notice indicating that the Open Game Content may 
only be Used under and in terms of this License. You must affix such 
a notice to any Open Game Content that you Use. No terms may be 
added to or subtracted from this License except as described by the 
License itself. No other terms or conditions may be applied to any 
Open Game Content distributed using this License. 
3. Offer and Acceptance: By Using the Open Game Content You 
indicate Your acceptance of the terms of this License. 
4. Grant and Consideration: In consideration for agreeing to 
use this License, the Contributors grant You a perpetual, worldwide, 
royalty-free, nonexclusive license with the exact terms of this License 
to Use, the Open Game Content. 
5. Representation of Authority to Contribute: If You are 
contributing original material as Open Game Content, You represent 
that Your Contributions are Your original creation and/or You have 
sufficient rights to grant the rights conveyed by this License. 
6. Notice of License Copyright: You must update the 
COPYRIGHT NOTICE portion of this License to include the exact text 
of the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any Open Game Content You are 
copying, modifying or distributing, and You must add the title, the 
copyright date, and the copyright holder’s name to the COPYRIGHT 
NOTICE of any original Open Game Content you Distribute. 
7. Use of Product Identity: You agree not to Use any Product 
Identity, including as an indication as to compatibility, except as 
expressly licensed in another, independent Agreement with the owner 
of each element of that Product Identity. You agree not to indicate 
compatibility or co-adaptability with any Trademark or Registered 
Trademark in conjunction with a work containing Open Game Content 
except as expressly licensed in another, independent Agreement with 
the owner of such Trademark or Registered Trademark. The use of 
any Product Identity in Open Game Content does not constitute a 
challenge to the ownership of that Product Identity. The owner of any 
Product Identity used in Open Game Content shall retain all rights, 
title and interest in and to that Product Identity.
8. Identification: If you distribute Open Game Content You must 
clearly indicate which portions of the work that you are distributing 
are Open Game Content. 
9. Updating the License: Wizards or its designated Agents may 
publish updated versions of this License. You may use any authorized 
version of this License to copy, modify and distribute any Open Game 
Content originally distributed under any version of this License. 
10. Copy of this License: You MUST include a copy of this License 
with every copy of the Open Game Content You Distribute. 
11. Use of Contributor Credits: You may not market or advertise 
the Open Game Content using the name of any Contributor unless 
You have written permission from the Contributor to do so. 
12. Inability to Comply: If it is impossible for You to comply with 
any of the terms of this License with respect to some or all of the 
Open Game Content due to statute, judicial order, or governmental 
regulation then You may not Use any Open Game Material so affected. 
13. Termination: This License will terminate automatically if You fail 
to comply with all terms herein and fail to cure such breach within 30 
days of becoming aware of the breach. All sublicenses shall survive 
the termination of this License. 
14. Reformation: If any provision of this License is held to be 
unenforceable, such provision shall be reformed only to the extent 
necessary to make it enforceable. 
15. COPYRIGHT NOTICE 
Open Game License v 1.0a Copyright 2000, Wizards of the Coast, 
Inc. 
System Reference Document 5.0 Copyright 2016, Wizards of the 
Coast, Inc.; Authors Mike Mearls, Jeremy Crawford, Chris Perkins, 
Rodney Thompson, Peter Lee, James Wyatt, Robert J. Schwalb, Bruce 
R. Cordell, Chris Sims, and Steve Townshend, based on original 
material by E. Gary Gygax and Dave Arneson.
Creature Codex. Copyright 2018, Open Design; Authors Wolfgang 
Baur, Dan Dillon, Richard Green, James Haeck, Chris Harris, Jeremy 
Hochhalter, James Introcaso, Chris Lockey, Shawn Merwin, and Jon 
Sawatsky.
Tome of Beasts. Copyright 2016, Open Design; Authors Chris 
Harris, Dan Dillon, Rodrigo Garcia Carmona, and Wolfgang Baur. 
Dark Aerie. ©2019 Open Design LLC. Author Mike Welham.