--- PAGE 1 ---
A 5E WARLOCK ADVENTURE 
BY MIKE WELHAM
Wrath of the 
Bramble King
FOR 4 PCS OF 
2ND LEVEL

--- PAGE 2 ---
Kobold Press, Midgard, Open Design, and their associated logos are trademarks 
of Open Design, LLC.
Product Identity: The following items are hereby identified as Product Identity, 
as defined in the Open Game License version 1.0a, Section 1(e), and are not 
Open Content: All trademarks, registered trademarks, proper names (characters, 
place names, new deities, etc.), dialogue, plots, story elements, locations, 
characters, artwork, sidebars, and trade dress. (Elements that have previously 
been designated as Open Game Content are not included in this declaration.)
Open Game Content: The Open content in this adventure is the Bramble Creature 
template and the bag of bramble creatures item.
© 2018 Open Design, LLC
www.koboldpress.com
the Bramble King hold a kernel of truth. When a hunter 
encroaches in his territory, he threatens the trespasser with 
writhing, thorny vines and plants pruned in the likenesses of 
predatory animals. All the thorns belonging to the Bramble 
King’s plants are tipped with a poison that creates an itchy 
rash. Those who persisted in their intrusion on his peace 
returned with horrifying red patches on their skin. 
In actuality, the Bramble King is a gentle soul, who wishes 
only to be left with his creations. However, he often takes 
in lost souls and tends to their injuries before sending them 
back to civilization with a bramble animal escort. Perhaps 
ancient memories of his orphaning guide him to help those 
similarly lost.
This all changed when the Weft of Shadows took notice 
of the Bramble King’s relative inactivity. It incited nearby 
children of the briar to envy the Bramble King’s crown, and 
a contingent managed to wrest the crown from his head 
while he slept. They poisoned the vines and captured or 
killed many of the Bramble King’s creations.
When the Bramble King awoke, he saw the devastation 
wreaked by the children of the briar and realized the 
Bramble Crown had been stolen. Despite the loss of his 
crown, he still wielded power over his surviving creations, 
and he sent them to the village of Cambervale. He had 
WRATH OF THE BRAMBLE KING
Design: Mike Welham
Editing: Meagan Maricle 
Graphic Design: Rick Kunz
Art Director: Marc Radle
Cover Art: M Wayne Miller
Interior Art: M Wayne Miller
Cartography: Dyson Logos
Publisher: Wolfgang Baur
TM
Background
Two centuries ago, a creature known as the Weft of Shadows 
broke into a minor elf noble’s extraplanar vault in the 
Summer Lands and deposited several powerful magic items 
from the vault in random forest locations on Midgard. 
Thanks to an unusual set of rules involved in the creation of 
the items, once mortal hands have touched the artifacts, the 
elves cannot reclaim them.
Such was the case with the Bramble Crown, which landed 
in the Margreve Forest. A young orphan lost in the deep 
woods discovered the crown. The boy’s curiosity about the 
object overrode his fears about its thorns glistening with 
green poison, and he reached out for it. To his surprise, the 
thorns retracted where his hand touched, allowing him to 
grab the crown and place it on his head. As the crown settled 
on his head, it transformed him into a plant-like fey.
The Bramble King, as he is now known, is a reclusive 
creature who has lived deep in the Margreve for a century 
and a half. His distance from most settlements keeps 
civilization away from him, and terrible bedtime stories about 
the Bramble King prevent most reasonable people from 
looking for him. As with all such stories, the warnings about

--- PAGE 3 ---
3
5
MAP: CLICK HERE TO DOWNLOAD THIS MAP FOR YOUR VIRTUAL TABLE TOP.
7
10
11
1
2
3
4
6
8
9
The Overgrown Tower

--- PAGE 4 ---
4
recently sent a lost elfmarked girl named Tremika to the 
village, and he reasoned the villagers must have raided his 
home as some sort of twisted revenge. He spoke through 
his creations, demanding the villagers return his crown, 
and, when they denied having it, he instructed his bramble 
animals to tear apart homes in search of the prize. The 
Bramble King’s servants now hold the village hostage, while 
he forces villagers to search elsewhere for the crown.
Adventure Hooks
The PCs may be traveling to Cambervale following a lead on 
a rare herb only found near the village. They may be on other 
business in the Margreve but run across a villager desperate 
for help. Finally, the PCs may be searching for the Bramble 
Crown independently (see “A Strange Interlude” below) and 
investigations have directed them to Cambervale.
The Mad Plants of Cambervale
The PCs arrive to Cambervale in a state of verdant chaos. 
A thick, circular wall of thorny vines surrounds a group of 
villagers, while a pair of badgers made of the same vines 
patrols around them. These two giant bramble badgers use 
the statistics for a giant badger with the bramble creature 
template (see below). The Bramble King withdraws his 
creations if one of them is damaged; he can’t risk losing 
more of his precious creations. It is possible for the PCs to 
give chase, but the wall of vines closes around the trapped 
villagers, who cry out for help. 
The wall of vines is 20 feet in diameter and 20 feet high. 
Each creature that touches the wall or hits it with a melee 
attack while within 5 feet of it must succeed on a DC 12 
Dexterity saving throw or take 2d8 piercing damage and 
be poisoned for 1 minute. The wall can be attacked and 
destroyed (AC 12; hp 10; vulnerability to fire; immunity to 
piercing, poison, and psychic damage per 10-foot section). A 
successful DC 11 Wisdom (Insight) check realizes the wall’s 
retraction posed no immediate danger to the villagers, who 
are too panicked to realize the lack of threat.
If the PCs rescue the villagers, the villagers offer them 
thanks and a reward of 5 sp. The villagers relate the sud­
den attack by the bramble badgers and the Bramble King’s 
demands for his crown, spoken through the badgers. They 
speak with horror about the attack on their village. They 
feared for their lives, but they do note, with some confusion, 
that none of the villagers were harmed during the attack. A 
successful DC 10 Intelligence (Nature) or Wisdom (Surviv­
al) check notices the poisonous nature of the vines but none 
of the villagers have been poisoned.
The villagers are desperate to escape the Bramble King’s 
grasp but are too afraid to confront him. They humbly offer 
an alchemy jug as a reward for ending the Bramble King’s 
threat, leaving the details of how to the PCs. 
Finding the Bramble King
The PCs have a few avenues available to them in their 
search for the Bramble King. If they immediately set after 
the bramble badgers, a successful DC 8 Wisdom (Surviv­
al) check allows them to follow the badgers’ tracks. If they 
assist the villagers, the delay increases the DC to 12. The 
villagers recall the general direction to the Bramble King’s 
abode based on old reports about him. If the PCs overtly 
ask the villagers about the Bramble King’s whereabouts, a 
successful DC 8 Wisdom (Insight) check notices a girl in 
the crowd nervously shifting from one foot to the other.
The girl is Tremika, the elfmarked child the Bramble King 
saved and sent to the village. She is reluctant to speak to the 
PCs. The Bramble King was nice to her (even having his 
“brambimals” perform tricks to delight her), and she doesn’t 
want anyone to hurt him. In her mind, the Bramble King 
is mad because someone stole something he liked an awful 
lot, and he didn’t mean to scare the others. A successful DC 
11 Charisma (Persuasion) check convinces her to open up 
about the Bramble King and give the PCs enough details 
to find his lair. If the PCs haven’t been hostile toward the 
villagers, they have advantage on the check. If Tremika 
shares the Bramble King’s location with the PCs, she asks 
them to promise not to hurt him.
A Strange Interlude
As the PCs travel to, or search for, the Bramble King’s lair, they 
come across an oak tree with a pair of broken branches that 
touch the ground, forming an archway large enough for a per­
son to pass through comfortably. The archway shimmers and 
an elven woman composed of thousands of motes of light steps 
through. She addresses the PCs by name and commends them 
on a previous victory of your choice. She introduces herself 
as Daesanderena and tells the PCs she hails from the Sum­
mer Lands. Since she cannot personally retrieve the Bramble 
Crown, she asks the PCs to provide a clipping from the crown 
to her. She relates the first paragraph of the Adventure Back­
ground on page 2 to inquisitive PCs and notes that possessing 
an infinitesimal fraction of the crown does not violate the rules 
preventing her from obtaining the item. She promises the PCs 
100 gp if they return with the snippet of the crown. 
As noted in the Adventure Hooks, you can introduce Dae­
sanderena prior to this adventure. If the PCs are at a loss for 
finding the Bramble King’s lair, she can help them now that 
the crown has moved elsewhere.

--- PAGE 5 ---
5
The Broken King
When the PCs reach the Bramble King, he is still angry 
about his missing crown, but his anger is tinged with de­
spair that he will never find it again. He stands a head taller 
than the average human, and his body is composed of hun­
dreds of thorny vines. Despite his physical age and appear­
ance, he has matured very little beyond the boy who trans­
formed into the Bramble King. He blusters and threatens 
the PCs when they arrive but makes no initial move to stop 
them from trespassing in his lair. If the PCs attack him and 
inflict damage, he begins to sob, leaking poisonous “tears” 
from his eyes. If the PCs cease attacking, he tells them about 
the theft of his crown and his overwhelming desire to get it 
back. If the PCs continue their attack, he protects himself 
by creating a wall of thorny vines between himself and the 
PCs, similar to the wall that surrounded the villagers, and 
commands them to leave him alone. Coaxing information 
out of him after a continued attack requires a successful 
DC 15 Charisma (Persuasion) check. The Bramble King is 
a force of nature and, though distraught and without his 
crown, too powerful for the PCs to fight directly. The PCs 
must use diplomacy and tact to resolve the villagers’ plight. 
If the PCs continue to attack him after he creates the wall, 
the King retreats from them, disappearing into the thorns 
and shadows of the forest. He keeps an eye on them either 
directly or through his bramble creatures and reappears if 
the PCs seem more receptive to conversation.
While the PCs are talking to the Bramble King, he 
suddenly becomes noticeably distracted shortly before his 
flower-like eyes widen in horror. He tells the PCs one of his 
creations was just murdered by a group of thorny people. He 
implores the PCs to stop them and expresses his hope that 
they will find his crown too. He promises to stop harassing 
the nearby villagers while the PCs undertake this mission, 
but he refuses to go with them, fearful of having his hopes 
dashed again. If the PCs ask about a reward, he indicates he 
will happily provide them with something wonderful if they 
find his crown.
The Overgrown Tower
Predating the Margreve Forest’s famed Griffon Towers, the 
ancient Deepwood Towers stood watch within the more 
remote parts of the forest. These towers never achieved the 
same level of renown as the Griffon Towers, since even the 
most stalwart of soldiers could not fulfill their assigned 
duties. Many left the haunted woods early with their sanity 
intact, while those who tried to persevere broke from the 
onslaught of chaos attacking the towers. The woods eventu­
ally reclaimed the land occupied by the towers. Overgrowth 
hides the buildings from all but the most determined search­
es, and vegetation has returned to formerly cleared ground.
Children of the briar (Tome of Beasts, p. 56) claimed the 
tower as their home, where they safely return after they 
waylay travelers in the woods. They attracted the attention of 
the Weft of Shadows, which asked them to steal the crown. 
Jealous of the Bramble King but fearful of his power, they 
reluctantly agreed to the task after the Weft of Shadows 
provided them with a magical powder to knock the Bramble 
King unconscious. The Weft left a pair of shadows behind to 
ensure the children of the briar performed their duties and to 
create a shadow clone of the crown after the children of the 
briar returned with it.
The tower’s walls are 15 feet tall and enough light 
penetrates the overgrowth to create dim light throughout the 
tower, except where noted.
1. ENTRANCE TO THE DEEPWOOD TOWER
The Bramble King provided accurate directions to the tower, 
but the overgrowth makes it difficult to spot the tower and 
its entrance. A successful DC 12 Wisdom (Survival) check 
finds the entrance among the plants. Even if the PCs don’t 
immediately find it, they see enough evidence around the 
forested area to realize there is a habitable location nearby. 
If they fail to find the tower initially, the PCs find it after 
another half hour of searching, but the creatures in the com­
pound are aware of their presence. Just inside the entrance, 
the PCs find a flayed giant bramble lizard—the “creation” 
the Bramble King lost while speaking with the PCs.
2. HALBERD-WIELDING STATUE
The inner part of this hallway is the most intact section 
of this building. A secret door to Area 3 hides among the 
overgrowth on the western wall’s masonry. A successful 
DC 12 Wisdom (Perception) check notices a thin line of 
damaged vegetation that marks the outline of the door. A 
statue of a heavily armored humanoid stands at the center 
of the hall along the eastern wall (marked with the star) and 
faces the secret door to Area 3. The statue’s right hand holds 
a stone halberd, which forms the basis of a simple trap left 
by the children of the briar. The hole in the wall next to the 
statue is filled with rubble and is only big enough for Tiny 
or smaller creatures to squeeze through it into Area 7.
Falling Halberd Trap. When a creature opens the secret 
door to Area 3, a trip wire snaps, releasing the halberd to fall 
in the spaces between the statue and the door. Each creature 
between the statue and the secret door when the trap triggers 
must make a DC 11 Dexterity saving throw, taking 11 
(2d10) bludgeoning damage on a failed save, or half as much 
damage on a successful one. 
	 Prevention. A successful DC 12 Intelligence 
(Investigation) check notices the tripwire hidden among the 
thick grass covering the floor. Alternatively, a successful DC 
15 Wisdom (Perception) check notices a fracture on the right 
wrist of the statue where it was broken and then reattached

--- PAGE 6 ---
6
to form the trap. A successful DC 12 Dexterity check using 
thieves’ tools harmlessly detaches the tripwire from the 
halberd. A character without thieves’ tools can attempt this 
check with disadvantage using any edged weapon or edged 
tool. On a failed check, the trap triggers. If no creatures are 
between the statue and the door when the trap triggers, the 
halberd loudly, but harmlessly, clatters to the floor.
3. FOREST DRAKE AND FALSE CROWN
This chamber is open to the sky and filled with a mound of 
weed-covered soil. The overgrowth on the tower obscures 
its full dimensions, which helps to hide the existence of this 
room. A forest drake (Creature Codex, p. 128), charged by 
the children of the briar to guard the crown in its posses­
sion from “despoilers of the forest,” prowls in this room. 
If the drake is alerted to the PCs’ presence (such as by the 
PCs triggering the trap outside the secret door), it climbs 
10 feet up the overgrown wall and waits to ambush them 
from above. 
If the PCs get the drop on the drake and choose not to 
attack, they can convince the creature they are not despoilers 
of the forest with a successful DC 13 Charisma (Deception 
or Persuasion) check. If a PC exceeds the DC by 5, he or she 
convinces the drake to hand over the thorny crown in its 
possession. A druid PC has advantage on Charisma checks 
when interacting with the drake.
Unknown to the drake, the thorny crown in this room is 
a fake, crafted by a child of the briar and given to the drake 
to perpetuate the ruse. A successful DC 10 Intelligence 
(Arcana) check makes it clear the crown has no power 
other than a glamour to make it seem magical. If the PCs 
are on friendly terms with the drake, they can convince 
the creature to join them in searching for the real crown 
with a DC 14 Charisma (Persuasion) check. The PCs have 
advantage on the check if they play on the drake’s anger at 
being fooled. The drake’s name is Zariss and only joins the 
PCs long enough to take his revenge on the children of the 
briar. After they obtain the crown, Zariss leaves the PCs 
with the warning to not despoil the forest. If the PCs make 
a particularly good impression on Zariss, he may return 
and aid them at a later time if they are ever in the Margreve 
Forest again.
4. SHADOWY ALCOVE
Unnatural gloom permeates this alcove, filling the area 
with darkness. Two shadows are finishing up the creation 
of the shadow copy of the Bramble Crown. Because they 
are focused on their task, they are not alerted to the PCs’ 
presence. When combat starts, one of the shadows places 
the shadow copy of the crown on its head and attempts to 
escape through one of the openings in the wall, while the 
other shadow stays behind to delay the PCs.
5. COMMANDER’S OFFICE
A rotting wooden desk holds some slightly moldy papers 
detailing the last harrowing days of the final group sta­
tioned in the tower. The papers describe spirits and ghosts 
assaulting the tower for weeks and end with an entry about 
the captain’s reluctant decision to abandon the tower. A 
gold band studded with sapphires worth 25 gp sits in what 
remains of the desk’s bottom drawer.
6. SEALED WELL
A water weird infested the tower’s well a few decades after 
the soldiers abandoned the tower. It has been content living 
out its existence in peace here until the recent infestation of 
children of the briar. It attacks any who come near its well, 
including any children of the briar. The children lost some 
of their number to the water weird and have since used the 
hole in the wall between Areas 2 and 7 to travel deeper into 
the tower. 
7. FLOWER-OVERGROWN KITCHEN
Excited by the prospect of carnage, two execrable shrubs 
(Creature Codex, p. 304) took up residence in the tower’s 
kitchen when the children of the briar moved in. They are 
accompanied by a child of the briar (Tome of Beasts, p. 
56) who keeps watch through the hole in the wall between 
Areas 2 and 7. As the companions to the child of the briar 
on watch, the shrubs are often the first to feast on any 
intruders to the tower. If alerted to the presence of the PCs, 
this group might use the door in Area 7 to ambush the PCs 
from behind.
8. COMMON ROOM
The children of the briar used this relatively spacious area 
to experiment with the Bramble Crown, channeling their 
energy through it to manipulate plants near them. Dis­
carded remains of misshapen bramble creatures litter the 
floor, marking their failures. After dozens of attempts, they 
managed to create a deformed giant bramble spider. It uses 
the statistics of a giant wolf spider with the bramble creature 
template. Two children of the briar ride the newly-created 
monster to attack intruders.
9. STAIRS TO THE BATTLEMENT
A tangle of thorny vines fills the base of this battlement but 
doesn’t climb up the stairs. Each creature that touches the 
vines or hits them with a melee attack while within 5 feet of 
them must succeed on a DC 12 Dexterity saving throw or 
take 9 (2d8) piercing damage. The vines can be attacked and 
destroyed (AC 12; hp 10; vulnerability to fire; immunity to 
piercing, poison, and psychic damage per 10-foot section). 
Hacking through the vines alerts every creature in the tower

--- PAGE 7 ---
7
to the PCs’ presence. A creature can squeeze through the 
vines without alerting the tower’s residents, but it must 
succeed on a DC 12 Dexterity saving throw or take 4 (1d8) 
piercing damage for each 5 feet it moves through the vines. 
10. MID BATTLEMENT
If the PCs reach this spot without unduly alerting the 
tower’s current residents, they clearly hear an argument 
from above.
11. THE BATTLEMENT’S CROWN
Three children of the briar fight over the Bramble Crown, 
each arguing it is the most suited for the item. The crown 
rejected each of them after a short time as it is bound to the 
boy who became the Bramble King, but each is convinced the 
crown will be swayed to its side with time and persuasion. 
They briefly set aside their differences to attack intruders.
DEVELOPMENT
The Bramble Crown’s centuries of being attuned to the 
boy-turned-Bramble-King have given it a limited 
sentience and tied it inexorably to the Bramble 
King. It desires to be returned to the King and 
projects this desire continuously at whichever 
creature is holding it. If the bearer promises 
to return the crown to the King, it quiets 
its projections for 1 hour. It can sense the 
direction of the Bramble King and grows 
more insistent if its bearer carries it in the 
opposite direction of the Bramble King. 
The Bramble Crown is not happy being 
worn by any creature other than the Bramble 
King and only tolerates such creatures for 1 
hour. Afterwards, it becomes quiescent and 
appears nonmagical until a creature it believes 
can return it to the Bramble King is within 30 
feet. Once such a creature is within range, it calls 
out to the creature for assistance in returning it to 
the King. 
PCs attempting to take a clipping from the 
crown for Daesanderena face a challenge: it 
is physically impossible to cut the crown 
unless the crown permits it. A successful 
DC 18 Charisma (Persuasion) check 
convinces the crown to let a PC take a 
clipping from it. A PC has advantage on 
this check if it promises to return the crown 
to the King.
Concluding the Adventure
If the PCs return the Bramble Crown to the Bramble King, 
he is delighted to have his crown back and rewards them 
with a bag of bramble beasts (see below).  Because of the 
PCs’ assistance, the Bramble King is open to making an 
arrangement with the nearby village for mutual protection. 
This gives the Bramble King a little more insight into his 
neighbors and the goings-on of the area outside his section 
of the forest. It also provides the villagers safe passage into 
parts of the forest to harvest herbs and fruits, though the 
Bramble King doesn’t agree to allow logging in the forest. 
Finally, if the PCs have been unable to obtain a clipping 
from the crown, the Bramble King gives them one.

--- PAGE 8 ---
8
The Weft of Shadows is aware of Daesanderena’s 
involvement, and, if the PCs encountered the shadows 
in Area 4, it becomes aware of them as her champions. If 
the PCs destroy the shadow with the copy of the Bramble 
Crown, the Weft of Shadows is annoyed at the setback but 
doesn’t immediately plot revenge against the PCs unless they 
interfere again.
If the PCs return the clipping from the crown to 
Daesanderena, she pays them 100 gp, as promised. 
Bramble Creature
Only a beast can become a bramble creature. It retains all its 
statistics except as noted below.
Type. The creature’s type changes from beast to plant.
Vulnerabilities. The creature is vulnerable to fire damage. 
Resistances. The creature has resistance to piercing damage 
from nonmagical attacks.
Immunities. The creature has immunity to poison.
Condition Immunities. The creature can’t be poisoned.
Senses. The creature has tremorsense with a radius of 10 feet.
New Trait: Thorn Body. A creature that touches the bram­
ble creature or hits it with a melee attack while within 5 feet 
of it takes 4 (1d8) piercing damage.
BAG OF BRAMBLE BEASTS
Wondrous item, uncommon
This ordinary bag, made from green cloth, appears empty. 
Reaching inside the bag, however, reveals the presence of a 
small, spiky object. The bag weighs 1/2 pound.
You can use an action to pull the spiky object from the 
bag and throw it up to 20 feet. When the object lands, it 
transforms into a creature you determine by rolling a d8 
and consulting the below table. The creature is a bramble 
version (see template) of the beast listed in the below table. 
The creature vanishes at the next dawn or when it is reduced 
to 0 hp. 
The creature is friendly to you and your companions, 
and it acts on your turn. You can use a bonus action to 
command how the creature moves and what action it takes 
on its next turn, or give it general orders, such as to attack 
your enemies. In the absence of such orders, the creature 
acts in a fashion appropriate to its nature.
Once three spiky objects have been pulled from the bag, 
the bag can’t be used again until the next dawn.
Alternatively, one willing animal companion or familiar 
can be placed in the bag for 1 week. A non-beast animal 
companion or familiar that is placed in the bag is treated as if 
it had been placed into a bag of holding and can be removed 
from the bag at any time. A beast animal companion or 
familiar disappears once placed in the bag, and the bag’s 
magic is dormant until the week is up. At the end of the week, 
the animal companion or familiar exits the bag as a bramble 
creature (see template) and can be returned to its original 
form only with a wish. The creature retains its status as an 
animal companion or familiar after its transformation. Once 
the bag has been used to change an animal companion or 
familiar into a bramble creature, it becomes an ordinary bag.
1d8
Creature
1
Weasel
2
Giant rat
3
Badger
4
Boar
5
Panther
6
Giant badger

--- PAGE 9 ---
9
OPEN GAME LICENSE Version 1.0a 
The following text is the property of Wizards of the Coast, Inc. 
and is Copyright 2000 Wizards of the Coast, Inc (“Wizards”). All 
Rights Reserved. 
1. Definitions: (a)”Contributors” means the copyright and/or 
trademark owners who have contributed Open Game Content; 
(b)”Derivative Material” means copyrighted material including 
derivative works and translations (including into other computer 
languages), potation, modification, correction, addition, extension, 
upgrade, improvement, compilation, abridgment or other form in 
which an existing work may be recast, transformed or adapted; (c) 
“Distribute” means to reproduce, license, rent, lease, sell, broadcast, 
publicly display, transmit or otherwise distribute; (d)”Open Game 
Content” means the game mechanic and includes the methods, 
procedures, processes and routines to the extent such content 
does not embody the Product Identity and is an enhancement 
over the prior art and any additional content clearly identified as 
Open Game Content by the Contributor, and means any work 
covered by this License, including translations and derivative works 
under copyright law, but specifically excludes Product Identity. (e) 
“Product Identity” means product and product line names, logos 
and identifying marks including trade dress; artifacts; creatures 
characters; stories, storylines, plots, thematic elements, dialogue, 
incidents, language, artwork, symbols, designs, depictions, 
likenesses, formats, poses, concepts, themes and graphic, 
photographic and other visual or audio representations; names 
and descriptions of characters, spells, enchantments, personalities, 
teams, personas, likenesses and special abilities; places, locations, 
environments, creatures, equipment, magical or supernatural 
abilities or effects, logos, symbols, or graphic designs; and any 
other trademark or registered trademark clearly identified as 
Product identity by the owner of the Product Identity, and which 
specifically excludes the Open Game Content; (f) “Trademark” 
means the logos, names, mark, sign, motto, designs that are used 
by a Contributor to identify itself or its products or the associated 
products contributed to the Open Game License by the Contributor 
(g) “Use”, “Used” or “Using” means to use, Distribute, copy, edit, 
format, modify, translate and otherwise create Derivative Material 
of Open Game Content. (h) “You” or “Your” means the licensee in 
terms of this agreement.
2. The License: This License applies to any Open Game Content 
that contains a notice indicating that the Open Game Content may 
only be Used under and in terms of this License. You must affix such 
a notice to any Open Game Content that you Use. No terms may 
be added to or subtracted from this License except as described by 
the License itself. No other terms or conditions may be applied to 
any Open Game Content distributed using this License. 
3. Offer and Acceptance: By Using the Open Game Content You 
indicate Your acceptance of the terms of 
this License. 
4. Grant and Consideration: In consideration for agreeing to use 
this License, the Contributors grant You a perpetual, worldwide, 
royalty-free, nonexclusive license with the exact terms of this 
License to Use, the Open Game Content. 
5. Representation of Authority to Contribute: If You are 
contributing original material as Open Game Content, You 
represent that Your Contributions are Your original creation and/
or You have sufficient rights to grant the rights conveyed by this 
License. 
6. Notice of License Copyright: You must update the 
COPYRIGHT NOTICE portion of this License to include the exact text 
of the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any Open Game Content You are 
copying, modifying or distributing, and You must add the title, the 
copyright date, and the copyright holder’s name to the COPYRIGHT 
NOTICE of any original Open Game Content you Distribute. 
7. Use of Product Identity: You agree not to Use any Product 
Identity, including as an indication as to compatibility, except as 
expressly licensed in another, independent Agreement with the 
owner of each element of that Product Identity. You agree not to 
indicate compatibility or co-adaptability with any Trademark or 
Registered Trademark in conjunction with a work containing Open 
Game Content except as expressly licensed in another, independent 
Agreement with the owner of such Trademark or Registered 
Trademark. The use of any Product Identity in Open Game Content 
does not constitute a challenge to the ownership of that Product 
Identity. The owner of any Product Identity used in Open Game 
Content shall retain all rights, title and interest in and to that 
Product Identity.
8. Identification: If you distribute Open Game Content You must 
clearly indicate which portions of the work that you are distributing 
are Open Game Content. 
9. Updating the License: Wizards or its designated Agents may 
publish updated versions of this License. You may use any authorized 
version of this License to copy, modify and distribute any Open Game 
Content originally distributed under any version of this License. 
10. Copy of this License: You MUST include a copy of this License 
with every copy of the Open Game Content You Distribute. 
11. Use of Contributor Credits: You may not market or advertise 
the Open Game Content using the name of any Contributor unless 
You have written permission from the Contributor to do so. 
12. Inability to Comply: If it is impossible for You to comply with 
any of the terms of this License with respect to some or all of the 
Open Game Content due to statute, judicial order, or governmental 
regulation then You may not Use any Open Game Material so 
affected. 
13. Termination: This License will terminate automatically if You 
fail to comply with all terms herein and fail to cure such breach 
within 30 days of becoming aware of the breach. All sublicenses 
shall survive the termination of this License. 
14. Reformation: If any provision of this License is held to be 
unenforceable, such provision shall be reformed only to the extent 
necessary to make it enforceable. 
15. COPYRIGHT NOTICE 
Open Game License v 1.0a Copyright 2000, Wizards of the Coast, 
Inc. 
System Reference Document 5.0 Copyright 2016, Wizards of the 
Coast, Inc.; Authors Mike Mearls, Jeremy Crawford, Chris Perkins, 
Rodney Thompson, Peter Lee, James Wyatt, Robert J. Schwalb, 
Bruce R. Cordell, Chris Sims, and Steve Townshend, based on 
original material by E. Gary Gygax and Dave Arneson.
Tome of Beasts. Copyright 2016, Open Design, LLC.; Authors Chris 
Harris, Dan Dillon, Rodrigo Garcia Carmona, and Wolfgang Baur.
Creature Codex. © 2018 Open Design LLC; Authors Wolfgang 
Baur, Dan Dillon, Richard Green, James Haeck, Chris Harris, Jeremy 
Hochhalter, James Introcaso, Chris Lockey, Shawn Merwin, and Jon 
Sawatsky.
Wrath of the Bramble King Author: Mike Welham. © 2018 Open 
Design LLC.